

The Bulletin
•The Bulletin,” Vol. 71 No. 3662
Wednesday, April 19, 1950
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Jeppelts
(By courtesy of TOM[?] Association.)
QUIN ABBEY, BUILT WITHIN A NORMAN CASTLE.
six miles south-east of Ennis, the county town of Clare,
is the village of Quin (in Irish —Cuinche, meaning arbutus
grove), which possesses one of the best-preserved ancient abbeys
in Ireland. This village and the surrounding country was the
stronghold of the Macnamaras and the Franciscan Abbey was
founded in 1402 by Sioda Macnamara inside the four towers of
the Norman Castle, three of which still exist.
The Abbey Church, which contains tombs Of the Macnamaras,
consists of a nave and chancel, with a tower in the centre. The
cloister, with its ornamented buttresses and coupled columns, is in
a comparatively good state of preservation. In 1541 Quin Abbey
was suppressed, and forty-three years later Donough Beag O Bnen
was brutally executed here by the Lord Deputy, Sir John Perrot.
In later years the Franciscan monks returned, and although their
community was again officially disbanded in 1651, the last monk,
Father John Hogan, died in 1820, and is buried in the north-east
corner of the cloister. ,
Two miles north-east of Quin is the twenty-five foot mound
of Magh Adhair, the ancient inauguration-place of the Kings
of Thomond, and also in the vicinity, near Ennis, is Clare
Abbey, founded in 1194 by Domhnall O’Brien, the last Kmg of
Munster.
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


Learn
fveeVmce
Journalism
at HOMF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL-
Please send, without obligation, your I Vein Pm*
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit Z
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,” 1 ‘
My Name ....
My Address
S.B. 150
AOE
The Red Page
STUDY IN SOLITUDE.
There is something profoundly solitary
about the picture Dr. Hjalmar Schacht,
the German banker, gives of himself in
Account Settled (Weidenfeld and Nicol-
son, Ltd., London). He says himself, in
his formidable opening chapters, that few
people understand high finance; but that
is not the only reason for finding it hard
to understand this high financier.
And, in fact, difficult as the financial
chapters are, nobody will have much
trouble in comprehending the folly on
which the Hermann Goring Works near
Salzgitter (at present being dismantled)
was founded. Germany had been using
Swedish iron-ore with a 45 to 60 per cent,
ferrous content; the Salzgitter ore had
only a 25 to 30 per cent, ferrous content :
There is no getting around the fact that
if I proceed to work iron-ore of 30
per cent, ferrous content where I previously
worked ore of 60 per cent., then I shall
need double the amount of labor power,
double the amount of transportation,
double the blast-furnace capacity, etc., to
produce the same result It is hardly
necessary to mention that the Hermann
Goring Works always operated at a loss
and was constantly demanding more credits
from the Reich, none of which had the
least chance of ever being paid back. In
order to cloak the fiasco the directors soon
began to buy up all sorts of other under-
takings, preferably those which showed a
good rate of profit. In the end the thing
swelled up to an enormous and utterly top-
heavy growth with stupidity, corruption
and fraud writ large all over it.
And while even the economic chapters
are thus occasionally comprehensible to
the layman—enough to let him know that
what went on with the Hermann Goring
Works went on all over Nazi Germany,
to the exasperation of Dr. Schacht —the
story, in any case, soon changes to
Schacht’s personal apologia and the
account of his plots against Hitler.
Perhaps it is partly on account of his
conspiracies, admirable as we must judge
them, that he remains aloof. In a country
where undesirable politicians are removed
not by assassination but by the ballot-box
it is inevitably strange to hear Germany’s
Finance Minister and leading banker de-
claring :
In the autumn of 1938 it was still
possible to count on bringing Hitler to trial
before the supreme court, but all sub-
sequent efforts to get rid of him
necessarily involved attempts on his life,
that is to say, murder. From 1940 on-
wards I worked for such a solution.
And perhaps, even more than his con-
spiracies, for no doubt the most civilised
of men could be forced into violence in a
State that ruled by violence, it is the dis-
tinctively German qualities in Dr.
Schacht, or at any rate his adoption of
distinctively German patterns of thought
and behavior, that remove him, a little,
from our understanding.
In his way, he was a moderate German.
He opposed the Nazi violence against the
Jews, for instance, to the extent of print-
ing on the private press of the Reichs-
bank thousands of copies of a speech he
had made condemning the brutalities—
from which incident in 1935, he says,
“Hitler’s first open mistrust of me dated”
—but at the same time he believed:
In the interests of the Jews themselves I
have always felt that it was a mistake on
their part to have striven so zealously to
occupy our cultural key positions. Culture
is rooted in religion, and the religion of
the Germans is Christianity. Any culture
seeking to base itself purely on reason and
' knowledge must lose its soul. The
difference between culture and civilisation
is that the latter has no soul, and can
therefore never take the place of culture,
which we find even where there is no
civilisation. Cultural policy in a Christian
State must under no circumstances be left
in the bands of non-Christians, whether
they are Jews, Mohammedans or
Buddhists.
Which, if one reads Dr. Schacht rightly,
would seem to assert that Jews have no
souls; neither is there any soul in the
arts. That is a little too German, or too
Nazi-German, for the present reader to
stomach; and it is quite obvious that if,
on the higher level, you affect to regard
a Jew with “brotherly love” but won't
let him publish a book, direct an art
gallery or back a theatre—presumably
these are “cultural key positions”—then
on the lower level you will inevitably
have the Belsens ... of the existence of
which Dr. Schacht declares he was un-
aware.
And if Dr. Schacht, by Nazi standards,
is moderate here, and if one is to believe
him when he says that he joined Hitler’s
Cabinet in an attempt “to limit German
rearmament,” as one must certainly
believe that when he was convinced that
Hitler’s policy would lead to world war
he plotted to kill him, there are still times
when, viewed through any other eyes
but German, he must seem immoderate ;
in fact, fanatically German. What else
is one to make of him when he asserts,
criticising the present Occupation, “A
people who had set the tone for occi-
dental culture for a thousand years were
suddenly denied the political and moral
capacity to rule themselves”?
Certainly there was Goethe; certainly
there was Beethoven ; but —a people who
had set the tone for occidental culture for
a thousand years!
In what seems to be a similar excess
of patriotism Dr. Schacht, after saying
that the German people, as distinct from
Hitler, “never wanted war,” submits that
the present catastrophe in which they are
submerged must be “a sacrifice imposed
by God” with the intention that in times
to come this sacrifice shall cast its bless-
ings, “as before,” on the whole world.
Such opinions as these would not, of
course, have isolated Dr. Schacht in
Germany; yet it is as a man alone in his
own country that, in its deepest aspects,
he appears in this book. That is not only
because, partly on liberal but chiefly, one
feels, on economic grounds, he began
earlv in the Nazi regime to oppose Hitler
and at length to plot his assassination—
so that he was isolated from the Nazis,
isolated from the mass of the people, at
home only with a few conspirators and
isolated from most of these by distrust—
but, ultimately, because of something at
once frigid and furious in his personality.
He quotes from Colonel Gronau’s evi-
dence at the trial before the De-
Nazification Court in Stuttgart a para-
graph which shows not only, as intended.
Dr. Schacht’s connection with the attempt
on Hitler’s life in July, 1944, but also
something of the depths of the financier’s
character:
“Schacht and I again met in the house
of Frau Gronau. Schacht used the
opportunity to attack General Lindemann
so vigorously in his eagerness to urge him
and his comrades on to the utmost dis-
patch that I seriously feared a personal
collision between the two. I therefore
intervened and suggested a pause for a
meal, for in his understandable excitement
Schacht had criticised and rated the
generals so vigorously for their spine-
lessness that I feared Lindemann might
feel himself personally involved in the
attack.”
It is typical of Dr. Schacht’s essential
isolation, as it is typical of his deep rage,
that the book as a whole, despite its
excursions in defence of the German
people, should be one long defence of Dr.
Schacht, blended with one long diatribe
against Hitler . . . whom, though he calls
him every kind of a villain. Dr. Schacht
sees, interestingly, as a man sincere at
the start (when the financier supported
him), but corrupted by the use of evil
means until gradually he became all evil.
In the final tragedy of this solitary banker
—from which he was liberated to the
anticlimax of Nuremberg and the despair
and religious exaltation of post-war
Germany—he becomes a most striking
figure, tranquil and statuesque, like a
man who had outlived his own life:
By September, 1946, when we were in
Nuremberg prison I, had already spent ten
months in Hitler’s concentration camps and
seventeen months as a prisoner of the
Americans. That was shortly before my
seventieth birthday....! enjoyed greater
spiritual calm in Flossenbuerg/ extermina-
tion camp than anywhere else Death
had lost its terrors for the man who, with
a humble heart, could go through the
purgatory of self-examination under the
seemingly inevitable threat of death at the
hands of the executioner. When the Camp
Commandant came into my cell, the more
he raged and shrieked the calmer I became.
What more could this brutal murderer do
to me? It was already quite certain that
one day soon he would have me hanged,
or dispatched with a bullet in the nape of
the neck, and so his fury now had no
effect on me. My imperturbable serenity
disarmed him again and again.'
Thus, still fanatically German, still
criticising the Government — which
happens now to be the Allies; and some
of his criticisms are very interesting—
arrogant, inflexible, high-principled within
limits, does Dr, Schacht present himself
for history. Lacking pictorial ability, he
does not write really well, but he sets
down, clearly enough, what he thought
about Hitler and his colleagues, what he
did and what he is. He is not a likeable
figure, but, in contrast to Goebbels as he
revealed himself in his Diaries, he never
lacks dignity.
Heard Island.
When the American Admiral Byrd led
his fifth Antarctic expedition three or
four years back, his retinue ran to 4000
men. He was accompanied by 13 ships,
an aircraft-carrier, a submarine, a 10,000-
horsepower ice-breaker, a fleet of air-
craft ranging from huge Douglases and
Martin Mariners to a helicopter, amphibi-
ous tractors and just about every known
means of mechanical transport that might
feasibly work in Antarctic conditions.
A far cry from the early Antarctic
expeditions—those of Scott and Shackle-
ton and other adventurers into an awe-
some unknown. A far cry, and a change
which, with all due respect for the
thoroughness of American methods,
comes somewhat unpalatably for the
reader who has been fascinated by the
accounts of the early heroes —by the pic-
ture of a handful of men, modestly
equipped, isolating themselves for a year
or two in the vast loneliness and elemental
violence of the Antarctic.
For the reader who has been thus a
trifle overwhelmed by the American’s
super-expeditions, Arthur Scholes’s Four-
teen Men (Cheshire) comes as a refresh-
ing relief. Fourteen men sounds some-
thing like an Antarctic expedition. Four
thousand men indeed!
In a neat, graphic, journalistic style,
Scholes has produced a clear and most
interesting picture of the general experi-
ence of the 14 men —himself one of them
in the capacity of wireless-operator—
who spent more than a year as the Aus-
tralian National Antarctic Expedition on
Heard Island. Heard Island, of course,
is a little remote from the actual Antarctic
continent, but it’s a sight more remote
from civilisation. Its position is best de-
scribed by the notice which Scholes
mentions as erected outside the expedi-
tion’s post-office;
The nearest phone-booth is at the corner
of Mitchell St. and Busselton Rd.,
Fremantle, W.A.
2400 miles away.
Some of the best writing in the book
is contained in the chapter or so covering
this 2400 miles south —accom-
plished in one of those snub-nosed
L.S.Ts. so familiar to troops who saw
anything of the Pacific shindig; but an
odd and, one would think, unsuitable craft
for the Antarctic. The subject having
been worked to shreds by a multitude of
the more prominent figures in the history
of literature, “Storm at Sea” is not a
theme to be tackled lightly by the tyro.
Scholes, however, gained enough experi-
ence of storms on the way south to carry
him through the test of description with
flying colors:
Great mountains of turbulent water lay
ahead. Down in the trough the water sur-
rounded the ship like the grey walls of a
prison. The water walls were higher than the
funnel. Forty feet of solid water. Tons
and tons of water waiting to deluge the
deck and sweep away everything in its
path. We worked with the energy born
of despair. It was incredible the landing-
ship should ride such waves. Some were
so high it appeared inevitable we would
be flattened and crushed by the weight of
water. Each time the ship rose again to
meet the challenge, fighting every inch of
the way. The way the ship rode those
seas stirred the men to renewed efforts.
It was as though they felt there was some-
thing underneath the deck fighting for
them. Their ship had a great heart, a
fighting heart.
Of the time spent on Heard Island,
Scholes gives a good account—a much
more detailed personal picture than one
usually finds in official histories of expedi-
tions. He does not attempt to make the
usual stupid pretence that a dozen or so
men cooped up perforce in close contact
with each other can live in sublime har-
mony for months on end, an impression
which several past writers have sought
to convey. Instead, Scholes, crediting the
reader with a modicum of commonsense,
mentions the inevitable friction and deals
interestingly with the measures taken to
alleviate the problem. As well as the
good coverage of the general camp life,
and the scientific work undertaken, the
author, acknowledging the help given him
by his companions in making available
their personal diaries, deals fully with
the various exploratory trips tackled by
tent parties.
One final thing which Scholes does
convey without himself directly comment-
ing on the matter is an impression of
some fairly high-class bungling in the
original organisation of the expedition. A
few items recalled through the book:
Bags of wooden tent-pegs burst open.
How concerned we were! Later the pegs
proved to be useless in the soft volcanic
soil and were too fragile to be driven
between the stones
Emergency food stores were trundled up
on the barrow. Many cases were marked
“Salted Peanuts.” How comforts came to
be with emergency rations was a puzzle
There were many enlivening experiences.
I remember one very heavy case in par-
ticular. Seven of us tried to lift it out of
a scow. We tried to gain a leverage with
crowbars. We tried a sling round the case.
We tried everything but could not shift it.
Finally, m desperation, someon.
Lets smash the 0 ” 1 ,®, I Rested:
agreed. Even with crowbaffik all
tough. When the top was 0886 w as
we looked inside and wen Miff throu gh,
language! The case was the
and dozens of iron tent-nees A„ dozens
useless, and could have been er «
sm |[* cases easier to handle P ked wto
they tried t^lreir^fos? A^rfi 6 When
fab. on a rock foundation fc 11 pre ‘
find anything with which t O a ?t, ~C ould
hard surface. No nicks nr attack the
be seen. A matSck, w ,hT“? f" nld
heads, something like a minerV U , ple °f
found among the store™ Aft?’ Was
labor Lambeth succeeded in mL much
workable tool. Later so mZ In S a
handles were found there was nn PlCks and
store them.... Was n ° room to
Roof sections did not fit ,
did not correspond with their nr* 6 ®
numbers on neighboring panels PPoBlte
Panel-sections of the Australia* ’2 , .
were fitted with opening fl a n s ff P i e'fabs-
and bottom. Hot tropfc Ss
cooled by the soothing breeds iff be
a hut with twelve
some modification in the Antarctic.*""
.... Shelves of the sleeping huts K«V 0 ~
cluttered up with uneaten amenities s
shelves looted like ton,”
had never eaten so many lollies in my W
We literally ate the lollies to eet rifff
them. It was the same with the peanuts
A case of magazines was opened for iiU
in the rec. hut. We found a varied Lw
Pen of publications, covering women’s
fashions m New York and Paris, 5Sd
aeroplanes stamp-collecting, knittmg babv
clothes and home gardening.. y
Tents of this type were light,'warm and
easy to carry. In other zones they would
have been ideal, brut they were too small
and not strong enough to withstand the
hurncane-force winds which beset the field
party....
For some mysterious reason two school
blackboards had been included in Se
expedition equipment. For many days they
rested on the beach, their purpose a
puzzle. Finally they were employed as the
roof for the lavatory. A ping-pong table
had been sent down for recreation pur-
poses. If we had wanted to play the game,
we would have had to build another hut
to house the table.,..
Macquarie Island had two sewing-
machines and no needles. Heard Island
had all the needles and no machine....
A far cry indeed from Byrd and his
entourage.
Applied Verse.
“Sagittarius,” the verse-writer of the
“New Statesman,” has put out a fifth
collection of her (one has read some-
where or been told that Sagittarius is a
woman) pieces, selected from the years
1945 to 1948.
The trouble with topical verse-writing
is that the better it is, the less under-
standable it will be a week or so after
it has been printed—that is the flattering
unction topical verse-writers lay to their
souls —and that a lot of the background
has faded from these pieces is a good
enough reason why one cannot read on
and on.
For the verse is extraordinarily dexterous
and various, and brilliant in parody, as
in “Grace Before Marshall,” a variation
on Herrick’s “Here a little child I stand’:
Here, a little pinched, we stand,
Holding out our either hand....
Or on Byron:
The Assembly came down like a cat on hot
bricks
As Ben Gurion’s hordes knocked the Arabs
for six
Or in emulation of a lullaby by Scott:-
O sleep, common baby, as long as you ca ,
You must soon play your part in t
national plan; Jt
While you howl in your cradle commit
ments accrue , . ,
Which all must be met, common baby, w
Or “To Franco, Arming for the Wars,” by
Ernie Lovelace (in reference to brnes
Bevin’s conciliation of Spain):
Yet, though thy portrait I retouch,
Respectable Senor, h
I could not love thee, Chum, so mucn,
Loathed I not Stalin more.
Or, in pastiche, perhaps the most 1
of the collection:— ,
Once more into the breach, dear
Milton shouldst be living at this
All great‘events their .shadowscast
Getting and spending-we lay wa
power
111 fares the land to hastening fib
So bad begins but wor f F SJ tS»
Westward the course of Empire w
way! , .. an A less than
A little more than km and
kind
Pleased the Almighty’s °ff r f s t to
Made weak by time and fate n
in will, , , j; r ~ c \ the storm-
We ride the whirlwind and direct thee
England, with all thy fauns
still! .
New Every mans -S? m rt f D the s Encyd°;
Volumes Five and Six of W ork
pcedia, carrying tha |'ff < L football
from Dramatic Unities t r & colllpre-
from Foote to Hasdruba , vo j uine s,
hensive Tennyson m 4 t printed
eluding poems that coul m aCCOU nt ot
in the earlier Dent e^ ltl °’L ? uV enilia apc (
copyright and, though s , practical-
verse-dramas are omit » s> There
amounting to a CoUeete
is an introduction by Mu


*
"
\®x;
V.*
EH
t,-
\.£r-
* i - %
?b^Av%/
mmmm
Ste/A
'■■ tm.'
mmm
.
eSC^hSHHb
tfi/5
TRUTH MIN ADVERTISING'
nthony Horderns’
Weil Known Names in
i .
m
;
1
}£SB
m r%m
-£6llll-
47
Packard Brogue. Stout soles, wide welts, sewn heel seats. Black, tan calf,
brown suede, 65/-. With imported Scotch zebu uppers, 87/-. Sizes 5 to 13.
“Whybrow-” styled this smart derby shoe in rich tan calf, with heavy crepe
rubber soles and heels for comfortable, easy walking. Priced at 61/6.
“Chukka” boot designed by Huttons of England. Smart derby fronts, heavy
plantation finished crepe soles and heels. Brown suede uppers. £6/11/-.
“Packard” casuals, distinctively styled, available with flexible soles and snug
fitting heels for extra walking comfort. Attractively priced at 47/-.
“Hutton’s Playboy” made in England, with uppers of rich brown suede, heavy
rolled edge plantation finished crepe soles and heels. Priced at £6/7/-.
“Julius Marlow” smart moccasin derby shoe, available with either non-slip
rubber, or leather soles and heels, and non-jarring heel cushions. 46/3.
Men’s Shoes.
Ground Floor, George Street Entrance. M 2401. Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
£6171-
' - -
■ •
7
m
3
W 0
trfM 1 1; I
mm
mm
/, ..
i
&
m


Sam's Social Day
By
A.E. HANSEN
STEAM5 TEAM tendrils like coils of smoke
twisted up from the surface of the
river in the early-morning sun. Sam
noted it and cocked an eye at the
pale cloudless sky in a satisfied way. It
would be a fine day.
A paddle-steamer was due to take his
wood-pile for her furnace, and Sam
earnestly desired fine weather. He was
thinking of all the kindly and inquisitive
holiday-makers aboard her, for the
weather affected their enjoyment so. If
it rained they could not swarm on to his
clearing and ask questions, they could not
inquire respectfully about the fishing and
the size of the Murray-cod that he
caught, or stand in awe before his sacking
home. Sam was proud of his home and
of his status as a fisherman, and he did
not object to curiosity in his fellows.
THE steam curls cleared, and the
muddy river began to reflect the
strengthening blue of the sky while he
waited, comfortably sucking his pipe, and
with the sun warm on his back. The
August morning had been keen, and the
sun was welcome to him during his
favorite occupation—admiring the peace
and waiting.
He was submerged in the scene by his
twisted branch arms and legs, and his
gnarled stump body. His clothes had
absorbed the dusty pale earth in every
fibre of their weave, and his face was
grained in the same shade, and, indeed,
coated with the stuff itself.
He was a knot and projection of the
earth, but he had the advantage of his
fellow stumps and earth hummocks in
being able to appreciate them as restful
companions. The stumps could not enjoy
his company. He heard the rustle of
dry blades of river-grass, and watched
the ripple of raised blue-water round a
snag. The stumps just kept still.
Soon enough for Sam, a puff of smoke
showed above the scrub on the bend, and
he had the pleasure of watching the
broad bow of the paddle-steamer round
the corner. The decks were crowded with
passengers, people of all ages in fancy
holiday clothes, and all staring at Sam.
He let them look their fill. They looked ;
there was nothing else unique about that
stretch of flat and crabby soil.
The sun-curtained air turned Sam to a
dusty gnome, and the drowning white-
gums at the water’s edge looked like tall
cuttlefish with shrivelled arms. They
held thern raised in queer attitudes above
the current that had taken their earth.
The passengers had seen plenty of eroded
roots in their journey down-river, so they
gave Sam no competition.
The captain of the steamer gave two
loud toots on the hooter, and Sam took
this as an insulting effort to rouse him.
Both remembered the incident of the
neglected wood-pile whenever they met.
“I’m sitting here ; ain’t he got eyes, the
cow!” muttered Sam. “I’m waiting, and
so’s the wood-pile.”
\WITH a loud threshing of broken
white water along the wheel-like
paddles, the steamer swung in to the
bank. Younger passengers took flying
leaps for the bank from all parts of the
lower-deck. Nobody fell in, and Sam
considered that they looked a likely,
intelligent lot—likely to be interested in
things—-but he had to attend to the
captain first.
That s a crook-looking pile of wood! ”
were the captain’s first words. “How do
7° u we’re going to get that stuff
into the furnace? Why, the blasted stuff’s
starr mS! 11 d c ** ng .like a ruddy film-.
The furnace was a tubular boiler with a
j ?° r ’ and the captain had reason
wnnuf 1115 dislike of irregular wood. It
• th C n ° n s * des g° in g hi, spoil-
crfit r u m u n s tem P er > and he liked his
L h /ppy- The y were difficult
t 0 get these days.
I hs driest wood you’ll get
frnfhf,m 1S h c le nver! ” said Sam > quite
ah f u hy- Stun preferred to collect his
od from fallen dead trees rather than
chop down new ones to ’season. This
often meant going farther afield, but
luckily he had an elderly pony to do the
hauling. Large logs were required, and
a fallen and shattered tree did not need
a lot of chopping.
The passengers were talking to his
pony, who was tethered in a patch of dry,
coarse grass.
“How can a horse live on that stuff?”
said one.
“He’s very thin, poor old thing! ” said
a girl in bright green slacks, and she
offered him an apple.
The pony sniffed at it in suspicious
amazement. He had never seen an apple
before, and didn’t realise that they
were intended for eating. The girl broke
the apple and tried to coax him, but the
pony turned away his head and nuzzled
in the sharp-edged grass again. The girl
balanced the apple on a near-by log, and
Sam made a note in his mind to collect it
for himself.
ANOTHER party was already standing
stupefied before Sam’s shack, and
more drifted up to gape. It was the most
notable sight in the region. Sam had im-
proved on the sacking-and-pole erection
so usual along the river bank.
He had a taste for fancy-work and
bright colors. His mother had known
better days, and had in her girlhood made
wool rugs. She had kept one carefully
in a tin trunk all her married life, and
had found pleasure in occasionally looking
at it and remembering. When she died
Sam had inherited it, and also a mass of
bright-red rug wool that she had never
had time to make anything with. The
wool rug made a fine front door.
That rug with its large, bright, rather
bloated-looking flowers of indefinite
species, and too-mixed coloring—pillar-
box red mingled with orange like the
blooms in a city-council flower-bed —
twisted a frail link with the living world
for the dead mother, and translated some-
thing of her lifelong craving for color
into the lazy brain of her son. After
several years of nightly contemplation of
its brightness against dull sacking and
grey-green leaves in the fading light, he
had begun to think of the unused red
wool.
After some years, the passengers were
looking at the result.
There were door-posts lined in with
long red stitches, and red-edged windows
that looked like four boxes stuck to-
gether, above a neat red windowsill. The
windows had blind eyes of sacking. Day-
light in the home is not considered
necessary along the Murray.
Sam had never risen to his mother’s
solid wool flowers, but hb had made a
blooming garden of sacking daisies, each
with four petals drawn in red. They
stood in a line along all his four walls,
and their red stems ended abruptly in
pale dry earth. Luckily there is not a
large rainfall in that region. Sam covered
his wall-garden and windows by leaning
strips of bark against his roof-poles when
there was a shower—and he unhooked
his front door and took it inside with
him.
SAM was about to join his latest public
and collect. their praise when the
captain turned to him again.
“Sam! ” he said. “What about that fish
you promised me this trip?”
Sam pushed down the red ash in his
pipe in a thoughtful way while he thought
about his answer.
“Fish!” joined in one of the
passengers. “That’s the talk! Here we
are steaming up the Murray and we
haven’t seen the bone of a Murray-cod
yet! ”
“That’s not my fault,” said the captain.
“You blame these , fishermen. They’d
rather send their catch to Melbourne
than let us poor river blokes have it.
What about it, Sam?”
“Well,” said Sam slowly. “It’s like
this—it was such a ruddy good haul that
I had to send it down to market. There
was too much for you to take, and I
didn’t want to break up the catch—spoils
the price,”
“The usual!” said the captain
disgustedly. “You see how it is,” he
said to the passengers, “They’d rather
let us starve! ”
Sam looked at the ground. If he had
been alone with the captain he would
have admitted that he had not gone fish-
ing because his mind had been on the
coming of the steamer, but he wouldn’t
say this before the passengers,
They were making disappointed noises,
and starting to ask the ways of his fishing,
and the size of his fish,
“You ought to try a few sticks of
dynamite,!’ said an ex-soldier. “That’s
the way to get the catch!”
“That reminds me, Sam,” said the
captain. “I see the old snag’s still here,
y ou promised me you’d use a bit of
dynamite on her before this call. It’ll
j-jp the bottom out of her one of these
days.’f
“Not if you’re anything of a captain,”
sa id Sam, looking sullen. “Tell y’ the
truth, I put a load of dynamite into her,
but it didn’t go off.”
'-pnE captain said a good deal. “And
1 here we are just about sitting on top
c f the ruddy stuff!” he concluded,
“Hurry on with that wood!” he
shouted to the deck-hands. “And, Sam!
You can keep your wood till you’ve
ruddy well done something about it!
Blow it up, and yourself with it if you
like! It wouldn’t be no loss—you can’t
even blow up a snag without mucking it
up!”
He joined the deck-hands at removing
the wood, and so did some of the male
passengers. They passed the great logs,
some almost as tall as themselves, from
man to man, and stacked them on the
lower deck behind the „ engine and
furnace.
The tale of unexploded dynamite
spread and absorbed the minds of the
passengers. They leaned over the rails
looking at the muddy current with awe.
Nervous women watched the wood-stack-
ing and urged on the men. Sam’s big
social event was getting out-of-hand. It
was, in fact, spoilt. No one questioned
him or admired, his decorations. He
brooded sullenly.
Ignored and unappreciated, he stumped
along the bank to the snag and measured
its distance from the steamer with his
eye,
“It wouldn’t hurt her none if it did go
off, the! ruddy cowards! ” he muttered,
IT was an old stump of tree still clinging
I with its dead roots to the river-bed.
The water sYvirled and raised clear ripples
from the mud along its fallen trunk. The
captain saw it as a menace to his ship if
he should make a miscalculation when
tying up or putting out from the bank.
Sam had been working on the problem
of the dynamite in a desultory fashion,
He had made a bomb in an old tin. Its
explosion would set off the first lot of
dynamite.
Unheeded, he cast off the rope of his
old row-boat and sculled gingerly up to
the snag. Nobody saw what he did then,
or witnessed his frantic dash for the bank,
He was a few yards on shore, and going
hard, when there was a sharp explosion
and a spout of water, followed by a
shower of wood-chips. The nose of the
steamer rose suddenly, and waves of
water rushed on to her lower deck,
wetting everyone’s feet, and even lapping
the off-duty fireman in his bunk, who
made the deck hurriedly and profanely
Broken wood fell on the steamer and
one solid wood chunk caught up’whh
Sam, neatly laying him out.
O AM woke to see a circle of interested
faces, like pink and brown fruit
apparently hung from the sky. He could
imagine that the feminine faces looked
sympathetic if he tried, but the general
expression was merely excited.
‘•c-if 16 ’M golle , again ’” said one.
Silly old cow! What was he doing out
near that dynamite? I saw him out in
his boat, though I didn’t take any notice
at the time.” 3
“He’s a bit batty I expect,” said a girl.
“Most of these old things living out here
alone are, aren’t they?”
“The old coot knew enough to run!”
said the first voice.
“Then he must have known what was
going to happen!” said another man’s
voice.
Sam had heard erfough. He opened his
eyes and groaned. Immediately here
was a chorus of sympathetic noises from
the women, but much too soon the magic
circle was broken and scattered by an-
other face, one as hard and seamed as
an elderly nut. The captain.
“What did you do to that ruddy
dynamite?” he said, without allowance
for an injured man’s nerves. Sam didn’t
forget his condition, he groaned again.
“Come on, now!” said the captain.
“What, set the blasted stuff off?”,
“It must have been the wash,” said
Sara, sitting up. He felt at a disadvantage
lying on his back in the dust,
“Well, what were you ruddy well
making waves round it for?” said the
captain.
Sam had an inspiration.
“Looking fon your blinking fish, that’s
what I was doing,” he replied with more
spirit. “The fish like lying along under
that there snag. I was risking my ruddy
life,” he added.
The captain hesitated for his next
question, and Sam stood up, tenderly
supported by a couple of passengers. He
looked at the river, and there, as by a
miracle, was support for his story.
“Where’s the fish?” said the captain,
unbelievingly,
“There!” said Sam, pointing to the
water.
AND there, with the sun shining on its
scales, was a magnificent, * forty-
pound Murray-cod. ,
“Whew! It’s a whopper!” gasped
someone. _ ,
“Thei dynamite stunned it!” grunte
the captain, but nobody was noticing him
now. Everyone preferred the sight ot t
fish. Sam came in for his share of the
glamor radiated by the biggest fish
most of them had ever seen.
Everyone with a camera took pictur
of Sam standing beside the fish, an
cheers were raised for him as the pa
steamer swung out into the stream,
the passengers crowded to the Sam-
rail to wave good-bye, and the v
heeled dangerously. Water lipped .
the bottom deck, and the fireman s
was again flooded. He was not apa
man, and swore that this trip would he
his last on a b submerged log.
RAINING speed, the paddie-steamer
vJ chugged off down the river “
sun glinting on her white paint, t
cast up by the paddles matching tn
gallant white smoke-clouds, d
Sam watched her out of sigh q e
the next bend, and that was not V ere
settled down to smoke and wat
she had gone. had
An artistic woman passengw d
suggested that he make 'Corn-
flowers for a change from
pointed shapes of his usual sy
had drawn him a sketch, and
at it. feeling his hands shap.ng
flower . . . ♦.aoiiv to do
But there was no hurry actually
Xt He' fifed the comfortable
he was appreciated by the wo - a t foe
had the cleanness of glass; * that
mild August sun to a gen
warmed the mind to s^°^ orea f success.
Sam’s social day had been a &


The Bulletin
'Vol. 71—No. 3662
Wednesday, April 19, 1950
PEACE COUNCIL’.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man’*
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8V5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
DANGER AND DEFENCE.
Progress of events in Asia must be daily
more and more worrying to Australia’s
new External Affairs Minister, Mr. Percy
Spender, who declared in his statement
on foreign policy in the House of Repre-
sentatives last month that “our first and
constant interest must be the security
of our own homeland and the mainten-
ance of peace in the area in which our
country is geographically placed.” He
added that “changes since the war have
resulted in a shifting of potential aggres-
sion from the European to the Asian
area.” And on that basis, though he gave
a sketchy “global picture” of world
relationships, he concentrated on events
in the Pacific and Indian Oceans, review-
ing what he supposes to be the position
in every country, beginning with China,
which he declared to be “almost com-
pletely under the control of a Government
which is Communist in form.”
The Chinese Government is much more
than that; it is Communist first, last and
all the time, working in the closest co-
operation with Moscow and in complete
dependence on the U.S.S.R. for its arma-
ments and general resources. But every
student of the situation will agree with
Mr. Spender about the dangers resultant
from the Communist conquest in China,
as with his summaries of the positions
in the countries directly threatened from
the new Russian base at Peking.
There is no doubt that preparations
are being made for seepage southward
from Kwangtung of forces designed to
overrun Thailand and Malaya, and almost
certainly Burma, which is the rice-bowl of
the East, the country upon which other
adjacent lands depend to decide whether
they shall eat or starve.
The threat of the invasion of Viet-nam,
apart from organised insurrection from
within, is imminent, and any drive south-
ward into the Indo-Chinese zone could
only be made with the direct objectives
of taking also Thailand, which is unable
to defend itself, and Malaya, which at
the moment cannot even deal with local
Communist guerrillas. There are now
40 to 50 raids a week on plantations and
towns.
Throughout that part of the Orient
which is to the north of us there
exists danger where there are large
numbers of Chinese, whether they be of
the Communist persuasion or not, since
t “ e . Chinese as a general rule depend for
their prosperity wherever they are upon
trade with their homeland, and their
politics and their allegiance to party are
almost invariably governed by the pre-
vailing brand of politics in China. There
is little doubt that the resurgence of rebel-
lion which has been noticeable within the
past two or three months in Malaya has
been due to Communist influence exer-
cised directly through the local Chinese
and a flood of new arrivals.
So far, as regards these countries apd
rJurma, where he says that the situation
is not altogether reassuring,” Mr.
Spender has been fairly correct in his
appraisements. But in the light of what
is now taking place, such statements as
the following about Indonesia, the country
nearest to us, are disconcerting when it is
considered that they were made only a
tew weeks ago: 3
wav S to ei tL Se r' er i al i ays J n Djakarta on my
way to the Colombo Conference, and had
and °l “? etin g Dr. Soekarno
cnnrW St ° f . h,s Cabinet. I formed the
r d c n ■ hat th f y were abie men of
”helm tn V WS a i* da sober realisation of
them ty ° f the tasks in front of
This of course, was written of Japanese
collaborators, condoners of the murder
n torture of Europeans, who derived
S r i tren^ and organisation for rebel-
n directly from Japan in war-time. It
refers to a regime which the Dutch could
nave suppressed with one hand if it had
b l en for . the interference of U.N.O.
wWfl th i! Chlfley Government and its
mshS w° re i, su PP° rters > who together
ushed blindly in to create a situation for
may ha ve major cause to be
sorry before the world is much older,
the Soekarno Government can be de-
pended on to lean to Asia whether it is
communist or not, and it wifi collaborate
with any enemy of Europeans just as
readily as it did in the last war.
Its promise to “hold elections as soon
as possible and to establish all the
machinery of democratic Government”
is being held up while it deals with those
parts of its new federation in which
rebellion is rampant and where the only
machinery of democracy which seems of
any use is the Army. Already since it
took office there have been two rebellions,
one in Java itself and the other in
Macassar, which has been surrounded by
insurrectionists. There are other parts
of Indonesia, such as Ambon, where
the Soekarnos are compelled to proceed
very warily, able to assume that they
possess authority only so long as they do
not attempt to exercise it.
Mr. Spender’s idea is that there
is “no question of their distaste for
Communism and their determination to
resist it in whatever form it may take.”
But history, and particularly the part
which Communists in Australia and else-
where played in ousting the Dutch,
scarcely supports the view that they are
invulnerable to Moscow propaganda.
Despite the depressing picture of Asia
which meets the eye of every observer,
and the Australian Minister’s “axiom”
that “a country cannot escape from its
geography,” the real danger does not lie
in the Pacific, as becomes more and more
evident each month. Any conflict in this
area is merely a feint to draw forces from
the main centres of contest, which must
inevitably be Europe and the Atlantic
coasts of America. No war can be fought
on current issues which is not a world
war, and none can be decided without
the destruction of the resources of either
Russia or the Western Allies,
This destruction cannot be achieved in
the Western Pacific and Indian Ocean
zones, because, outside Japan, there is
little war-potential in any of them. Suc-
cess in war in these countries depends
on their ability to draw trained man-
power and material from the great
sources of manufacture —the United
States, Canada, the United Kingdom,
Germany, France and Italy, or, on the
other side, from Russia.
And even if it were true that South-east
Asia is the decisive zone in world rela-
tions, Mr. Spender’s panaceas, designed
to “avert the dangers to our country,”
seem more and more inadequate.
The first is “economic” —to raise the
standards of living and make the South-
east Asian countries proof against the
temptations of Communism—and the
second military. Of this scheme it may
be said that Communism has about as
little to do with living standards as it
has with the moon. The countries most
concerned with it include some where
the living standards are highest in the
world—i.e,, Australia and the United
States.
And on the military side there is a
painful lack of material effort, a fact
strangely at variance with the grim pic-
ture painted by Mr. Spender and with
the knowledge that it has been deemed
necessary within the past few days to
hold in Melbourne an international mili-
tary conference called by the Australian
Chief of the General Staff to devise
measures for emergency mobilisation in
case of attack from the air or sea.
Defence seems to be the avenue of
Government activity in which least is
being done. Even though defence co-
ordination with other countries may be
a matter for agreement at conferences to
be held after Mr. Harrison, the Defence
Minister, has gone abroad, there is vital
groundwork to be done in pushing for-
ward compulsory training which will fit
into any background. This basic work
should be undertaken now, as a matter
of supreme urgency.
At the moment, as the Berlin and Baltic
situations advertise, it needs only a match
to start another world conflagration in
which we could not escape being
involved, against both external and
internal enemies.
In for Ever or Out for Good.
Only once since 1911 has Queensland
“Labor” lost a State election. In all
other States and in the Federal Parlia-
ment the political pendulum has swung
back and forth several times in that
period, giving now one party, now an-
other, temporary control of the machinery
of government —but not in Queensland.
In that State there doesn’t seem to be a
pendulum; in its place is a barometer
with a needle permanently set fair for
State “Labor” and quite unaffected by
changed in the political atmosphere.
Succeeding “Labor” Administrations
have helped this phenomenon a bit.
Preferential voting was at one time
the law in Queensland, but “Labor”
wiped it out before the 1944 elections
and returned to the system of first-
past-the-post, regarded elsewhere in Aus-
tralia as an archaic and undemocratic
method of choosing Parliamentary repre-
sentatives. Introduced to secure “Labor”
an advantage over the two-party Opposi-
tion, the system paid dividends at first,
but it seems likely that at the elections
on April 29 it may rebound on its origina-
tors ; this time the Liberal and Country
parties are closely-knit, and it is “Labor’s”
own ranks that are split.
The abolition of preferential voting was
the work of Mr, Hanlon’s predecessor
as Premier, F. A. Cooper, but last year
the Hanlon Government made its own
contribution towards making “Labor” the
In-for-Ever party; it took the form of
redistribution of seats. There is no dis-
puting that the electorates were due for
redistribution ; they were still based on
1931 figures, under which the State was
divided into 62 electorates, each with a
quota of approximately 8000 voters, with
a margin of 20 per cent, permitted either
way. Changes in population during
almost two decades had made that margin
look rather irregular by 1949. At the last
election nearly half the electorates had
more than 12,000 voters on the roll—
Logan, held by Liberal leader Hiley, had
17,874 —while others were well below the
quota.
Mr. Hanlon’s method of bringing about
a more equitable distribution was
to allot varying quotas to seats in the
four zones into which the State is divided
for electoral purposes. In Zone 1, the
metropolitan area, the quota is 10,715 ;
in zone 2, south-eastern coastal area,
9536. Of the 45 seats included at present
in these two areas “Labor” holds 21 and
the Opposition 23 —there is one Indepen-
dent —and, as the principle of differential
quotas for city and country electorates is
fairly widely accepted in other States,
there would probably have been little
criticism if the quota for the second zone,
or something approximating to it, had
been adopted for the rest of the State,
But the Hanlon plan went beyond that.
In the northern zone, where “Labor”
holds eight of the 10 seats and the
Opposition none—the other two being
held by the Communist Paterson and
Independent Laborite Aikens—the new
quota is 7852, and in the west, where
only one Of the seven seats is in the hands
of the Opposition, 4783 is considered a
fair figure for an electorate. The net
result of the zoning is that the Assembly
is increased from 62 to 75 members, and
while the representation of the two zones
in which party allegiance is evenly divided
is increased by 15 per cent., that of the
solid “Labor” northern and western zones
jumps up 35 per cent.
On the basis of Federal figures Queens-
land is not perpetually “Labor” in senti-
ment. Last December the Chifley party
won only three seats out of 18, and in
the Senate the Liberal-Country-party
team collected four of the seven
vacancies ; at the previous Senate election
Queensland was the only State which
“Labor” did not win. On these facts a
casual observer would be justified in
assuming that Hanlon simply could not
win the coming election ; but this is far
from "being the case. In 1947, eight
months after Queensland had sent an anti-
“ Labor” team to the Senate, 287,000
people voted for Opposition candidates
and 272,000 for Hanlon’s men, yet
“Labor” won 35 seats and the Opposition
only 23. A minority vote gave “Labor”
a majority of 12.
Couldn’t win ? With 1947 in mind and
the latest redistribution tucked under their
arms, Hanlon and Co. could hardly be
blamed for assuming they simply couldn’t
lose. Till recently that seemed to be
their attitude—Mr. Hanlon remarked on
his return from England last December
that Federal-election figures had never
been any guide to State elections —but now
they are not so sure. The north is one
worry, Socialism the other. The Lib.-C.P.
alliance has declared its sympathy with
the New-State movement in the north
and has promised a convention and a
referendum on the subject if elected.
Added to this, Mundingburra Aikens has
converted his Hermit Park Labor party
into the North Queensland Labor party
and is running candidates for seven seats.
The Communists are contesting six seats,
mostly in the north, and there are three
or four starters with an Independent-
Labor or near-enough-to-Labor label.
Hanlon may well wish he had restored
preferential voting; every vote cast for
the assorted batch mentioned above is a
vote lost to “Labor.”
Hanlon’s response to northern aspira-
tions is a mixture of patronising tolerance
and large-scale but long-term political
bribery. Certainly, they’re told, they’re
entitled to a State of their own, but,
of course, they are not yet capable of
standing on their own feet financially.
Later, perhaps, in a decade or two,
it’ll be a different matter, Meantime,
let them look at this
print of the Tully Pafk ° ew
Or this one of the Burde k inT r plan ’
those who don’t like blueprint? n?' For
proposals for the improvement J h u re are
and promises to “investigate” f harbors
new crops, “including pepplr anH P ° s « sible
The party seems to teTbk unS®?'”
as to where it stands on ndecide d
Deputy-Premier Gair broadca ?, OC /. allsrn-
was “a baseless and deliberate M?’ *
gest that “Labor” was hSm to su g-
Socialism. &S hellb °und f or
In view of “Labor’s” remt-a
tion of aims, no reasonable d n and dedara-
beMeve the State 'SIT
dfnial of private ownership, or destn?rr° r
of private enterprise, if it function^ 1 ? 11
interests of the people. 10ned ln the
Only two months ago the A I p
tion at Toowoomba reaffirmed the sodaS'
sation objective of the party after
Hanlon had said that if ‘‘shou d nSS
around corners and pretend that it hi!
not want socialisation of industry ” so Mr
Gair takes a rather unreasonab£ view of
what a reasonable person may believe
HantasS ‘T SPeeCh Premi «
-Tf Kf &
society can be so organised that there shall
be no exploitation of class by class
He claimed that the Liberal-Country
party, in talking of free enterprise, meant
an entire absence of all restraint in the
pursuit of profit” and that its policy
would mean “a returil to the bad old
days when the mass of humanity was
at the mercy of the private owners of
the means of life. 5 ' At the Federal elec-
tions “Labor” raised the same scare, but
was unabie to convince the electors’that
that vqp the aim of the parties led by
Menzies and Fadden. Last December
the people of Australia voted for private
enterprise against Socialism, and in no
State was their verdict so convincing as
in Queensland. This was probably due
to the fact that Queensland has had more
experience of Socialism in practice than
all the rest of Australia put together.
State butcher-shops, State fisheries, State
canneries, State cattle-stations lost the
Queensland taxpayers many millions be-
fore the costly experiments were aban-
doned ; Queenslanders want no more of
them.
Having stated his attitude on Socialism
in his policy speech Mr. Hanlon proceeded
to soft-pedal the issue, concentrating on
full employment, social services, land
development, power-schemes, education
and road and railway extensions —on most
of which points the Nicklin-Hiley part-
nership matched him, thereby emphasis-
ing that the essential difference between
the two sides was Socialism.
In December Mr." Chifley denied that
Socialism was the main issue of the
election; a fortnight ago he admitted
that it was the only issue. It remains
the issue in every State election to be
fought this year, and no amount of soft-
pedalling or ducking around corners can
conceal the fact. Queenslanders are well
aware of that, and, although Hanlon chose
the course and allotted the handicaps for
the contest, April 29 may well see the
end of his In-for-Ever Government.
Seesaw Politics.
From London: The British electorate
certainly deserves a better deal in govern-
ment that it is getting at present.
far the Opposition —the white hope or e
new Britain—doesn’t seem to have settled
down to its early promise of maintaining
a steady Parliament. Whether the pr es ® a
state of mild jitters is due to taooi
anxiety, a Tory war of nerves or over-
alertness on the part of the Whips is
passing interest only: it is hardly a g
foundation for the stability the
needs so badly and for which the trie )
disposed nations watch so keenly.
The hurly-burly of party P olltlcs V S .T,
no means done, though it at least
have softened into quietness unt “ tft p n i e
of this session has been dealt with,
are wondering how long M.Ps. wi
stand the strain of hanging abo . , r jy
hours for possible divisions, P ar . . s
as many are only part-time po
(understandably so, when the lit a j
Parliament is so uncertain). . .
members have gone direct t rom JL
to the division lobbies and two h _
probably as a result of this
Laski, it is said, was greatly „ | eS>
by electioneering. Mr. Cleme r( j erC d
leader of the Liberals, has bee
to rest. Mr. Bevin is a very
And there are several others. . - an
Neither national nor humani *
needs can afford this wastage. ca n e d
of understanding would seem w ho
for, and soon. The Con fSNinternal
appear to be having some s gn f oo ii s hly
disagreement over policy, win , 0 n
if they fail to realise that borate is
probation still and that the
watching them closely..


PLAIN ENGLISH
Election for Victoria.
nura of knight Albert Dunstan, a sort
oMeader-enieritus of the Victorian Coun-
trv party. closes a peCU ia ' , era m VlC ‘
torian politics and may ead to a recon-
Son among the non-Labor part.es in
Melbourne.
Dunstan entered the Victorian Parha-
nlPnt in 1920, was Minister for Lands in
Spv Arayle’s coalition Government in
$ Lcame Premier in 1935 and, with
one break of five days, held the office for
the next 10 years. It was done by some
of the most extraordinary manoeuvres in
Australian politics.
Dunstan died a couple of days after
the Hollway Government had resigned
and an election was announced for May
13 Premier Hollway led a Liberal—
Country-party Government after the Cain
“Labor” Government was thrown out in
1947, following the Federal “Labor’s”
Bank Grab Act. In January, 1948, Mr.
Hollway squashed a Communist-led
transport strike. When he returned from
a London conference in December of that
year he found a gas-strike on and his
deputy, Mr. McDonald, a Dunstan man,
about to proclaim the same emergency
measures as Mr. Hollway had used in
January. Hollway vetoed the McDonald
move, the ooalition of Liberals an,d
Country-party broke up>, Hollway formed
another Government with the support of
breakaways from the Dunstan pqj|ty, and
the Dunstan-party rump became the
official Opposition.
Victorians haven’t much choice on May
13. Labor can’t govern without Mc-
Donald-party support nor the McDonalds
without “Labor.” Dunstan had governed
both with “Labor” and against it, but
the McDonalds have sworn not to ally
themselves with “Labor.” The Hollway
Liberal-Country-party, aware of the
swing to Liberalism, will contest all 65
seats—Dunstan left a legacy of redistri-
buted seats which gave the Country party
a disproportionate vote in the Parliament.
The just-ended Parliament comprised
30 Lib.-C.P., 16 C.P., 16 Labor, two
Independent L.C.P. who had been “ex-
celled,” and a Labor Independent. Con-
tinuity of government depends on a
Hollway over-all majority ; without it
the sorry story of Melbourne politics will
be repeated. It says something for the
Victorians that their State has sustained
its reputation for stability and progress
in spite of its politicians.
The Exchange Rate.
Professor Copland, now Vice-
Chancellor of the National University at
Canberra, last week entered the
exchange-revaluation controversy when
he offered the opinion that the cost of
living would alter very little if the Aus-
tral lap £ came to par with sterling. He
put it that export and import prices
would fall by 20 p.c,, but that Australian-
produced foodstuffs and other items used
for domestic consumption would still be
regulated, as to price, by internal costs.
Overseas competition would affect our
manufacturers —this, of course, admits a
fall in the local price of manufactured
goods—and the blow would fall on “the
just and unjust” alike. Professor Cop-
land doesn’t think revaluation of itself
would do much to stop inflation.
With the last part The Bulletin is
prepared to agree. Revaluation, to have
any desirable effect, would have to be
accompanied by a higher rate of produc-
tion, with lower internal costs. In the Press
report of his address the professor laid
no emphasis on the production side of
things. He said, for instance, that there
were two factors causing the rise in
prices—the high level of export and
import prices, and the construction
demand caused by the Government’s
immigration policy.
If what has been published is a fair
summary of Professor Copland’s address
it appears a rather patchy and superficial
survey of the position, and on one point,
at least, contradictory—if one of the two
factors causing a rise in prices is the high
level of export and import prices, surely
a lower level of export and import prices
would tend to check further domestic in-
flation?
One thing must not be overlooked by
anyone in this exchange-rate conflict, and
it is that the longer an adjustment is
delayed the more difficult will it be, be-
cause of rising costs, to do anything
about it. In the United States, in spite
of rising costs there, the price of gold, and
the external value of the dollar, has re-
mained stable (gold at $35 an ounce) since
1934. In Australia gold has risen from
£9 3s. 6d. an ounce to £l5 10s. since 1939.
That represents a very large currency de-
preciation over the last 11 years ; and the
greater part of it has occurred since
September, 1949. If slump comes we
shall have very little up our sleeve in the
way of reserve value in our currency.
We have had currency devaluation at the
height of a boom, which is a very bad
thing indeed.
Coal from Pillars.
By his decision to allow mechanical ex-
traction of pillar-coal the Coal Industry
Tribunal, Mr. Gallagher, last week made
clear the way for an immediate increase
in the output of coal —immediate, that is,
if the miners accept the decision, which
at the moment seems unlikely. The
Miners’ Federation has always opposed
mechanical extraction, claiming it to be
unsafe. In 1947 it was successful in
getting the then Minister for Mines, Mr.
Baddeley, to accept its viewpoint, with
the result that mechanical extraction was
not permitted without the express permis-
sion of the t Minister, which in practice
meant not at all.
When Mr. Gallagher began his hear-
ing of the application last January, the
miners’ reps, made no attempt to present
any arguments; they merely withdrew
from the case. The Coal Tribunal’s view
of the safety issue is that under mechani-
sation men are further away from the
coal-face and from the point of fall;
that they are generally standing under
timber ; that closer supervision and better
dust-control are possible than under the
method of hand-hewing. Mr. Gallagher
said;
The safety of the miner is fundamental,
but I am satisfied beyond all reasonable
doubt that, if permitted to extract pillars
mechanically, managements will scrupulously
observe the provisions of the Coal Mines
Regulations Acts and all requirements
relating to the proper care of employees.
The immediate reaction of Miners’
Federation officials was that Mr. Gal-
lagher had no right to make such a
judgment or to set himself up as an
authority on safety. This last Mr.
Gallagher, of course, did not do ; the late
Professor David Jones and other experts
have recommended mechanical extraction
and have advised that the method is quite
safe provided the work is done quickly
and adequate precautions are taken. The
real reason behind the miners’ objections
is not concerned with safety at all. Mr.
Justice Davidson’s report on the coal
industry, which was shelved by the Chifley
Government, said on this subject:
Miners are opposed to early extraction
of pillars by mechanical means for the
reason that as they formed them by hand
work in the solid workings, they should
have the benefit of the easier task of taking
them down when crushed in process of
time. For the same reason there is
opposition to rapid extraction so that the
lighter and more profitable task may last
longer,
The real meaning of Mr. Gallagher’s
decision is that an increase of a million
tons a year in the output of N. S. Wales
mines is possible. Australian industry
needs that coal badly, and private rules
made for the benefit or convenience of
members of the Miners’ Federation must
give way to the greater need of the com-
munity.
McGirr Is Scared.
The discredited, futile, squealing and
scared McGirr Government of N.S.W.
apparently doesn’t intend to emulate the
defeated Chifleys and “stand on our
record”; that would be too patent a
cause for sardonic laughter from the
voters.
So the electors are being presented with
a reckless mixture of promises and hastily-
produced bills—ranging all the way from
deep-sea ports on the North Coast to a
bill to make the local baker deliver bread.
Anybody who asks about the 1947 pro-
mises—90,000 homes in three years, saving
the public-transport services from bank-
ruptcy, more hospitals, cheaper meat and
fish and vegetables, solution of the coal
problem, fewer blackouts and so forth—
is invited to forget it and contemplate
the dazzling benefits that await them
under continued McGirr rule and the
sudden rush of pre-election legislation,
most of it ill-considered and not worth
tuppence.
This crowd of promisers and squealers
is performing extraordinary contortions
in its efforts to charm Socialists and anti-
Socialists at the same time. Thus farmers
are promised more silos for wheat and
the country people told that the McGirrs
will stop “the drift to the city,” while
seats are altered to give the city/ more
votes at the expense of the country; an
obviously unworkable bill to compel
bakers to deliver bread—complete with
the usual threats of £lOO fines and jail
for the bakers —is set before housewives,
who’ve been threatened with £5OO fines
for using gas and who’re blamed by the
McGirr Electricity Emergency Commis-
sioner for using electric light in the even-
ing and causing blackouts.
McGirr transport services lost millions
and the McGirr Transport Commissioner
blames the public for not paying fares,
which have been bumped up to unheard-of
o Continued on next page.)
tw
vid
*SW
h?
STATE . '
iLECIVO^
“WHERE shall we four meet again—
McGirr, Hanlon, Cosgrove, Cain —
In thunder, lightning or in rain?”


rr
mm
5728 E-K
S«Bs*
for y« ur
Obtainable
In 10’s & 20’s
CARRERAS LIMITED-OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
■
mm
mm
levels, with penalty imposts for those
who dare to travel after dark or at week-
ends.
Last week this exploded Premier came
out with lifting of building controls. Any-
one can now build a house without a
permit, though how he’s going to pay tor
it is a puzzle. It seems like a wil
McGirr hope that everybody will rush m
madly to build homes and so catch up
on the 90,000 the McGirrs didnt build
Even rabbits come into it, McGirr^ rtion
Minister loudly urging pasturesj-protecti
boards to destroy the things, which are as
thick on unoccupied Crown Land
anywhere else. .
Meantime a bill to socialise the State
electricity undertaking was produced, it
proposes to set up a commissi
and give them power to take ov
major electricity generators whic h
which suffer blackouts and th .
don't. It is aimed at both pnvate »»
prise and local government, and
isn’t a thing in it that shows how it^
get another kilowatt of elec^f y, J { a nd
is short because of strikes, bad coal
lack of equipment. t
Premier McGirr plainly a^ ed * a V
of a guilty politician wh “ jj® Sections,
hour gag on the Press b ■ p e bru-
It operated in three by-electiM
ary, and the result as . cr g ase d Liberal
win in Armidale, an 1 frightening
majority in Concord an of 0 1-
finish for the safe L^ b cnnealed— asbe
longong-Kembla. McGirr g, nc ord.
always does in defeat-att d are
and he and the res * f J r d t 0 S ee what
plainly scared now. It is 0 f misfits
can save this “Labor col deserve,
from the political oblivion t Y
POLITICAL POINTS
McGirr’s 70-hour Press ban, silliest
measure introduced by a Government
which has broken all records for stupidity,
is hanging round the N. S. Wales
Premier’s neck like the Ancient Mariner s
albatross. Realising that it is a vote-loser
he would like to drop it, but to do so
would be to admit that all the nonsense
he spoke about it last year was poppy-
cock. Cabinet is in two minds on the
subject. Half the Ministers want to hang
on to it to save their faces ; the other
half want to dump it to save their slender
chance of winning the election.
Press bans are not the prerogative
solely of the McGirrs; Sydney Trades
Hall has one, too. Last Thursday the
Trades and Labor Council decided to ex-
clude the Press from its meetings because
“the Press tried only to harm and ridi-
cule the trade-union movement.” Repre-
sentatives of the Printing. Industry Em-
ployees and the Australian Journalists’
Association opposed the move, but
Watersiders’ rep, weighed, in with an offer
to refuse to handle newsprint. E.
Wheeler, of the P.1.E.U.A., made a good
point when he said that the movers of
the motion “assumed that the majority of
workers could not digest and sift what
appeared in newspapers.” Many union
leaders and “Labor” politicians make the
same mistake of assuming that the
workers whom they profess to lead cannot
think.
Dr. Hewlett Johnson, Dean of Canter-
bury, arrived in Sydney by plane on
Saturday, and was met at the airport by
Mrs. Jessie Street and a bunch of Com-
munists and fellow-travellers who hailed
him as an apostle of peace or something.
The cleric was photographed beaming on
his mixed reception committee, and was
quoted as saying something about how
misjudged Communism was. Behind
him in the plane, strapped to a stretcher,
was one who had sampled Communist
benevolence. He is C. B. Folliott, from
Malaya, whose face had been shattered
when he and three others were ambushed
by Malayan Communists:
Mr. Folliott, whose jaw had been frac-
tured by the first burst of gunfire, managed
to crawl out with two others, leaving a
Malay policeman dead in the car. The
Communists threw a grenade and later
bayoneted Mr. A. H. Girdler as he lay on
the ground. Girdler died later in hospital.
According to Dean Johnson Russia seeks
peace at home and abroad. Mr. Girdler
found peace at the hands of Russian-
inspired murderers.
The mirror which the Red Dean holds
up to nature seems to be of the distort-
ing variety. It shows him Russia as a
peace-loving nation seeking only to co-
operate with the rest of the world and
Marshall Aid as an American plot to
degrade the countries which receive it.
In Russia he held it up before the con-
centration camps and they just weren’t
there ; from a distance it shows him a
Communist China from which bloodshed
has disappeared. When he uses it for
shaving purposes he apparently sees there-
in reflected the features of John Wesley.
Peace, it’s wonderful!
It’s open season for river-damming in
Queensland. Premier Hanlon in his
policy speech spoke of damming the
Burdekin, Tully and Walsh rivers for
water-conservation and hydroelectric
power, with the Herbert to follow later.
Then Lands Minister Foley went to Bar-
caldine and announced a £7 million irri-
gation scheme involving a dam to harness
the Nogoa River, near Emerald. Next
E. J. Walsh, a former deputy-Premier,
trying for a comeback by opposing
Bundaberg Barnes, came out with plans
for damming the Burnett “and adjacent
rivers.” Queensland’s ancient rivers are
not unduly perturbed at the threats;
they realise that after April 29 they will
be left alone again to pursue the even
tenor of their way without let or
hindrance —at least for another three
years.
When the Liberal candidate for Baroona
in the Queensland Assembly sought to
interview residents of a Housing Com-
mission camp in his electorate he was
ordered to leave, and when the matter
was referred to Housing Commissioner
Galvin he said he had directed care-
takers to forbid electioneering, as the
housing camps were private property.
Most electors live on private property,
yet few object to candidates for Parlia-
ment knocking at their front doors to put
their case. The attitude of the Housing
Minister, Mr. Power, on the subject of
canvassing in housing camps is that it is
“a matter for the Housing Commissioner.”
Mr. Power is the “Labor” candidate for
Baroona.
Out of Emerald (Q.) the Queensland-
British Food Corporation —a companion
stunt to the East Africa peanut scheme
which cost the British taxpayers £23
million for a few tons of peanuts —is
growing some 60,000 acres of grain
sorghum and 5000 acres of sunflowers.
Latest reports are that “big rains did the
crops good,” Presumably the hungry
British can now look forward to a bag
of sorghum a week and a nice, big,
yellow sunflower in the vase on the
kitchen table.
Although the Victorian Country party
will naturally feel the loss of the man
who has been its leader, officially or un-
officially, for so leng, it cannot be denied
that the passing of Albert Dunstan will
make somewhat easier the reconciliation
which must ultimately come between the
two anti-Socialist parties in Victoria.
Unless Abdul Aziz is suffering from
delusions comparable to those of Rudolf
Hess, it is impossible to believe that he
went to Djakarta without a promise from
the Soekarno Government that he would
be allowed to return to Macassar. His
arrest and impending court-martial there-
fore suggest a breach of faith which will
hardly enhance the prestige of the Indo-
nesian Republic, which had already had
to admit that two “authoritative” state-
ments which it had issued on the Macassar
revolt were untrue.
The Tasmanian election will present
the unusual spectacle of Premier and
Opposition-leader contesting the same
electorate. Premier Cosgrove has been
one of “Labor’s” members for Denison
since 1919 ; Townley, originally an Inde-
pendent but now leader of the Liberal
party, was elected in 1946, topping the
poll'in a field of 18. The present repre-
sentation of Denison is “Labor” three;
Liberal two and Independent (Wedd) one.
On Federal-election results—another
Townley, brother of the Liberal leader,
won the seat from “Labor” —Cosgrove s
party could easily lose one of its three
seats.
As another item in the McGirr can of
election bait building restrictions have
been “eased,” so that anyone may now
build a home without a permit. But what
with the McGirr 40-hour week and its
effect on labor and material costs a man
would have to win a McGirr lott’ry to be
able to build a house.
Lifting of building controls in N.S.W.
contained the usual catch. Whereas
before the lifting 85 p.c. of State produc-
tion of bricks and terra-cotta tiles was
reserved for housing, now the 85 p.c.
has to cover schools, hospitals and sundry
other structures. It seems impossible for
the McGirrs to do anything consistently.
The McGirrs propose to make it com-
pulsory for a baker to deliver bread any-
where within three miles if there are not
three other bakers closer to the consumer.
However desirable the breaking-down of
zoning may be, this isn’t the way to do it,
since it would force a baker to deliver
bread to a person he didn’t wish to trade
with and in that, and other, ways is an
interference with personal liberty.
Sam Atyeo, mystery man of the Ex-
ternal Affairs Department since Doc.
Evatt’s magic touch transformed him
overnight into a diplomat, has now, like
his former chief, left the department.
No one seems to know whether the deci-
sion was made by him or merely com-
municated to him.
A Molongloside meditation; —-
Despite the determination of Labor to fight
the Banking Bill-most of which might have
been framed in Caucus for all it differs from
Labor policy—and to press on against the
Speaker for his statement about his relations
with the Governor-General, a more dangerous
issue than any shows signs of arising over the
Social Services (Child Endowment) Bill, which
has been introduced in the Senate and which
is so like a money bill in terms of Section 53
of the Constitution that Labor is considering
whether its introduction is constitutional. There
is one precedent which is 'very dangerous to
the Government.
In 1903 the Senate decided to amend the
Sugar Bounty Bill so as to widen the range
of beneficiaries who would receive the bonus
on white-grown sugar. The Reps, challenged
the Senate’s right, and the Senate then, in terms
of the Constitution, made a “request,” which
was accepted by the Lower House. Honor
will not be so easily satisfied this time. If the
question arises, a “Labor” howl will be heara
from Albany to Cape York about the sacred
rights of the Lower Chamber. , , ..
And it will be painfully awkward for the
Government if the Senate, with a Labor
majority, itself votes that it would exceed its
powers in passing the bill.
The findings of Mr. Justice Dwyer in
the N.S.W. bribery inquiry completely
exonerate F. J. Cahill, ‘ Labor M.L.A.
for Young, of charges of accepting
money from Non-Metallics, Ltd., to use
influence with the Railways Department
to secure transport priorities. His Honor
found the agreement between the parties
neither covinous nor irregular; that it
did not tend to a public mischief, nor raise
a conflict between duty and interest,
that it was not a criminal conspiracy ;
that it did not amount to a breach of the
Secret Commissions Prohibition Act; that
Cahill did not • exercise or attempt
to exercise corrupt influence on any rail-
way officer ; that no excess truck facilities
were granted to Non-Metallics, Ltd. The
report adequately covers all points in-
cluded in the terms of reference. The
matter of the ethics of a Parliamentary
member of a party pledged to socialisa-
tion acting as paid agent of a capitalist
concern is one for the party itself to
pass judgment on. Perhaps mining is a
different sort of capitalism. After all,
the Eureka Stockade miners were capi-
talists to a man.
Probate was granted last week of the
estate of Edward Farrell, described in
Justice Ligertwood’s report on the New
Guinea timber leases as “the master
mind” of the swindle, in which £50,000
was alleged to have changed hands. The
judge recommended Farrell s prosecution,
but no action was taken. Farrell was in
ill-health during the inquiry and trials ;
he died last November. His estate was
sworn at £2087.
The British are to get an extra ounce
of butter a week (five ounces instead of
four) and will lose an ounce of bacon
from their ration. They get more butter
because of better Australian and N.Z.
production and less bacon because or
fewer Danish and Canadian pigs. Food
Minister Webb said it was “misleading
to say great piles of foodstuffs were beiL
held in store because of price and sub
sidy complications. Then why are thev
being held, sometimes until they rot? y
Brisbane’s Red T. and L. Council lost
no time in rebuffing the A.C.T.U’s re
quest to all unions to abstain from strike
action until after the trade-union con
gress on May 16. It instructed its dele-
gates to oppose the request, and it passed
the opinion that the A.C.T.U. should be
assisting the Melbourne tram-strikers in-
stead of trying to prevent strikes. Mean-
time, in Melbourne, A. E. Monk was
repeating his council’s exhortation to “all
striking unions” to go back to work pend-
ing the congress, but was emphasising
that this was “not a direct appeal to
striking tramwayraen.”
“Coal Facts,” a publication issued by
the Joint Coal Board to acquaint miners
with the problems of the industry, came
out recently with a special number ex-
plaining just what strikes and absenteeism
mean to the community in terms of
houses not built and goods not pro-
duced. On the whole the picture is well
presented, but its effect is weakened right
at the start by a statement which, if true,
would make the rest of the publication
unnecessary. Following a statement that
the board knows that the N. S. Wales
coal industry cannot provide all the coal
that Australia needs in 1950 is the com-
ment, “This is in no way the fault of
the miners, and is due solely to the fact
that developmental work has not kept
pace with the ever-increasing demand.”
In view of a subsequent statement that
in 1949 2,500,000 tons of coal was lost
through strikes and voluntary absenteeism
the comment is ridiculous. Probably the
compilers of the brochure meant to say
that the position was not entirely the
fault of the miners, but an authority of
the power and importance of the Joint
Coal Board should be aware of the im-
portance of saying what it means.


first IN 1888
_ No other Battery can match , . .
1 gi
FIRST TODAY!
Exide’s 61 Years* Experience
EXiDE
BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
g
PERSONAL ITEMS
Knight Owen Dixon, selected by the
tin Council for the tough assignment
H mediating in Kashmir, looks exactly
what he is: a quiet, studious man with a
♦Jlinn founded on a most dis-
gushed '^ l , career - 190 B 6 A L f L rO B m $8
rri“warird
JJta Bar in 1910, took silk in 1922,
visited England to appear twice before the
Privv Council, became Justice of the High
Court in 1929 and has held that post
since Taking over R. G. Casey’s job as
Australian Minister to the U.S. in 1942,
the second High Court occupant to go to
a Ministership abroad —Justice Latham’s
Tokyo appointment started it —he came
back to his old place on the Bench after
two years, with memories of Roosevelt,
Churchill and Other Allied top-liners. A
clear thinker and. an equally clear
speaker, he will be 64 thisjmonth.
In Melbourne recently to attend the
family reunion on his father’s 93rd birth-
day, J. P- W. (Wally) Hogg, soldier of
two wars and now grazier of Swan Hill.
One of five brothers who served
in World War I (three returning),
he was educated at Melbourne Scotch,
and, preferring the sea to a cosy
job in his dad’s rope-works, went
BUCKO MATE.
off to haul on ropes instead of
Helping to manufacture them. He may
even have pulled on some of his family’s
befo £ e he attained to his
th r l lficate (square ri §>- 11 was
tha t hme he gained the Royal
h- lTrt lpwreck medal for the p art
, 00 P Sf 'Vvr CUlnB thC CrCW 0f a tram P
War O.S off Newcastle (N.S.W.). Came
with ?£% a i n ? tU , rned soldier ’ served
vived th*» qHI Battalion, Gallipoli, sur-
sawhifPM Su l her u nds smkin S and later
ah T de y br ° ther > Ca Ptain Billy Hogg,
Twice wo, e H d i ng u his men in Fra “!
captain M aded himself, he returned
* removed ’’ and three m.ds. Shrapnel
he «w out S®‘ f °l War U ’ which
unit w Ut j W th a w ater-transportation
the e nd SP 0 e f nds most of his city visits on
by , dof a P ier watching the ships go
i «er V p r r eted) a a S fS. riVate librai T is (rightly
graphy—like hi aBment of his own bio-
possum s orwht f gS ’ cats ’ bats > bees,
a v ery intereJ? 31 u ave yo H' Sometimes
too; as wit ng biographical fragment,
Frederick ate Chief Jus tice
’his- week S pnVate hbrary on sale
Tke SS®l D r cks - s»«“y-
-~~ls not inclnriori . d tc ! be outstanding
only reiterate tu ’ u U * * ba t would have
The re S t that he Was a man of law
with a Bo^ r e| is r f Ult " ed - read « ™n d ;
hove Peacock r bum or (Thomas
favorite) and py mS f to bave been a
foreign languish rwK° nalI if Versed in
humor is i wb f re the relish for
in 8 point—taking ?/ ' ] But tbe interest -
Kmg hls law and Chief
Justiceship into account —is the section of
detective fiction. On its shelves in his
book-walled sanctum he had this section
classified according to kinds of cases dealt
with, how sleuthed and so forth ; and, a
steady consumer of this literary fare, he
would regularly replace on his shelves
any book whose problem or solution was
outmoded or outdone by a later one.
Not, of course, the first legal man known
to be addicted to such busman’s-holiday
reading, but certainly the first known to
take it as seriously as that suggests.
“Cauboy”: Vaslav Nijinsky, passed on in
• o iQ°m ma J e hl , s Ia ? 1 a PPearance as a dancer
in 1919. Freud, who believed that psycho-
analysis could not cure schizophrenia, when
asked what could be done for probably the
greatest male dancer of all time, answered
Let him dream his dreams.” Twenty-five
years later he partially recovered, but remained
lor the rest of his life at his home in Surrey,
a timid, harmless, gently-smiling man. Yet he
had been the centre of some of the fiercest
controversies that ever rocked the theatre.
.>r >* n - P ro^uc ed his own interpretation of
L Apres Midi d’un Faun” in Paris the theatre
was in an uproar, half the house bellowing
approval and the rest abuse and challenging
Nijinsky’s supporters to duels. Calmette, editor
of ‘ Figaro,” came out next day with a leader
in which he accused the dancer of presenting
a faun, incontinent, with vile movements of
erotic bestiality and gestures of heavy shame-
lessness,” and a lot more of the same stuff.
The sculptor Rodin, who had rushed behind
on the opening evening to embrace Nijinsky,
piomptly attached his name to a defence of
the dancer. Calmette retorted by attacking
Rodin’s morals, and the controversy raged
around the world, ending in the rout of
Calmette. All Nijinsky was doing was bringing
a breath of reality to bear on the stale old
conventions of the Russian ballet; modern
dancers who imitate his gestures, without feeling
the same feelings, owe it to Nijinsky. Starting
dancing at three, at 10 he was admitted to the
exclusive Russian Imperial School of Dancing,
where he met Diaghileff and started towards tame
and a sea of troubles. His subsequent schizo-
phrenia was probably partly due to his associa-
tion with the great entrepreneur, who earned
three million francs a year and spent four
million. When Nijinsky married Romola de
Pulski, the Hungarian actress, there was a
triangular contest which raged over three con-
tinents and culminated, according to Mrs.
Nijinsky, in the wrecking of his South American
tour. Diaghileff’s jealousy manifested itself in
weights falling on the dancer from the flies
and in nails appearing in the boards in places
where the dancer would be expected to land
after one of his tremendous leaps—he could
leap further than any dancer before or since
in history. The conflict destroyed his artistic
inspiration and he relapsed into delusions. He
made his last appearance before a fashionable
audience at which he stared for half an hour
without speaking. Then shouting: “I will dance
you the war which you did not prevent and
for which you are thus Responsible,” he pre-
sented a horrifying satire on Armageddon, He
was 60 at the finish.
“Macnell”; Having seen, while g.-m. of
Williamstown Naval Dockyard, Aus-
tralia’s new Battle-class destroyer Anzac
take to the water, Engineer-Captain
Charles Carr Clark is off to London to
advise Australia’s High Commissioner
thereabouts on whatever he wants to
know of naval engineering. A Queens-
lander, Clark has been engineering for
the past 27 years —the Brisbane, Renown,
old Sydney and present Australia were
some sea-borne addresses—and early in
Hitler’s war, as deputy-engineer-
manager at the Garden Island ship-
hospital, he kept such giants as Queen
Mary, Queen Elizabeth and Aquitania
in fighting trim for the return run. He
was, as well, deep in the Australia’s vitals,
responsible for seeing that all thrpugh
the Arawe, Cape Gloucester, Hollandia,
Leyte, Lingayen and other parties up
north her 80,000 roaring horses were
kept harnessed to her four huge screws.
When anything structural aboard a war-
ship goes seriously amiss—send for the
Chief, There was structural damage
a-plenty when the Kamikazes made
a pincushion of Australia’s upper-works,
and Clark’s damage-repair parties pulled
the barbs out and kept her fighting. For
this, 0.8. E. and D.S.C.
In for West Perth in the recent return
over there, Perth’s breezy Lud Mayor,
65-year-old Joe Totterdell, who stood as
L.C.L. candidate when former Attorney-
General Ross McDonald announced he’d
had enough. Landing in Perth from
England in 1903, the new member took
on master-building, and built himself into
the presidency of the Master Builders’
Association of Australia. Though win-
ning the West Perth seat in his first
political exploit, he is well enough up
in local government, having sat on the
City Council for 14 years before donning
Mayoral chains in 1945. Experience in
this and the building field should make
his opinion on local government and that
other bugbear, housing, of some weight.
PPty man officially entitled to put
Mr. Melbourne” after his name is
Robert McLeish, the popular president of
the Green Room Club for 30 years and
managing-director of a chain of suburban
theatres. It has no connection with a
comic character of that name. Robert
was granted the honorific by Lud Mayor
Nettlefold in 1944 after he had raised
£18,161 for the Comforts Fund. A boy
soprano in St. John’s Church, Latrobe-
street, he used the same voice-box at
Rickard’s Opera House (now the Tivoli,
Bourke-street) and was the instigator of
weekly “pops” in provincial centres.
Lord Brassey selected him to sing before
him at a Melbourne Town Hall concert.
Immigration Minister Holt, who knew
McLeish in his theatrical days, unveiled a
portrait of him recently in Melbourne,
“C. 8.”; Even in tales of adventure few
boys have had a convalescence to equal
that of John Oldham, a 10-year-old of
Elwood, Victoria. A fall from a tree in-
jured his back and put him into plaster.
As a special dispensation he was allowed
to convalesce aboard cruiser Australia —
and that included a six-weeks’ cruise to
New Zealand. By the time the ship was
headed back, John was walking the deck
in the garb of an A.B. and doing ship’s
jobs. The superintendent of his floating
hospital is Captain G. C. Oldham, the
boy’s father.
Out of court and into business, Arnold
Bennett, of Brisbane, here persecuted by
Lambart. In court, K.C., one of Queens-
land’s four, and, except for knight Samuel
Griffith, the youngest, at 38, to take silk
in that State; in business, head of a
newly-registered firm of business and
property managers. Brother of Air Vice-
Marshal D. C. T. Bennett, born in Too-
woomba on the Downs, he began legalis-
ing as junior to Peter Macgregor, K.C.,
and after a lean first year made rapid
progress in jury work in the Criminal
Court. He soon worked out of criminal
actions into a wide civil practice, with
emphasis on constitutional and commer-
BAR TO BUSINESS.
cial cases. In the Augathella murder
case, whose retrial caused a northern stir
some time back, Bennett, defending,
quaffed part of a glassful of strychnine
to prove a point. The accused also left
the court alive and free. Lately, and less
sensationally, he looked after Bruce Pie
in the Casket inquiry. Four years a
Digger (2/i.-c. and acting-C.O. 2/7th
Australian Armored Regiment), he has
just nudged 40.
Tbe no S e out in front of this Prior
pnir of Poll Shorthorn breeders belongs
to F. J. Mclntosh, of Goornong, on the
fringe ot the Goulburn Valley (Vic) j
where the youngster is breeding polls’ 1
the first to do so in that district
He was caught at a Sydney Show
dinner with K. Mackinnon, another
young un also on his own at
Dandaloo, west of Trangie (N.S.W.); he
BRACE OF BREEDERS.
learnt the game from his father, runner
of the well-known Bogan stud on the
north-west plains.
Many Diggers will be interested in a
guinea-pig” experiment being undergone
in Melbourne by Frederick Bartlett, a
veteran member of the Limbless Soldiers’
Association, well-known as a Swanston-
street newsvendor. Repat.’s orthopaedic
specialist. Dr. John Jens, recently read of
a French experiment in which a series
of injections were tried to remove that
strange associational complaint known
as “phantom limb” ; they were successful,
Bartlett lost his limb as a result of
numerous Gallipoli wounds, and has
since had over 50 operations. Periodically
he still suffers all that anyone
would feel if an actual limb was violently
contracted. They are very painful symp-
toms, and all the belief in the world that
the limb is no longer there won’t dispel
them in the slightest. The experiment
is unique in local medical history.
Into the Silence;
In Melbourne, at 68, knight Albert Arthur
Dunstan, 29 years a State politician and the
dominating figure of Victoria’s Country party.
Victoria’s Premier for 10 years (a long-time
record for Victorian politics), holder of the
Lands and Forests portfolio in 1932-35, and,
in 1948, Minister of Health. He was, as well,
a farmer, and in any capacity was a hard
worker.
At 63, in Sydney, Clarence Faulkner, tor
40 years a pressman, foundation member of the
A.J.A. and chief sub. on the old “Evening
News” as well as spiking copy for Sydney
“D.T.” and “Herald.” War correspondent in
New Guinea before that area blew up, and
determined to get into the hot-spots, regardless
of his age, he signed on in the Aquitania as
an assistant-cook. Reporter to the last, given
a few months to live, he made minute notes
on each stage of the cancer which killed him,
which records, with his body, have gone to
Sydney University.
At" 77, in Melbourne, Robert Hoddle, son of
the Hoddle who was first surveyor-general,
planned Melbourne’s wide streets and conducted
the first land sale, at which blocks now worth
millions were sold for a few pounds. The son
was a member of Melbourne Cricket Club for
50 years.
In Melbourne, at 80, William Hugh Everard,
of the old patriarchal style of politician who
was father of his people. M.L.A. for Evelyn
since 1917, he knew every individual in the
district, his cousins, his uncles and his aunts,
and at Parliament House in Spring-street held
court like an ancient Roman patrician, listening
to the grievances of suitors. Speaker in 1934-37,
Chairman of Committees 1932-34, he had been
re-endorsed for Evelyn in the coming elections.
His father was a member of the first Victorian
Parliament.
In Wellington (M.L.), at 78, Colonel Alfred
Cowles, formerly senior-inspector under the
Wellington Education Board, and one-time
president of the Wellington R.S.A. He
commanded the Third Battalion of the N.Z.
Rifle Brigade in War I.
In Ballarat, Rev. Canon B. H. Dewhurst,
vicar of Camperdown for 11 years. Rev. H.
"Dewhurst, Canon of St. Paul’s Cathedral, Mel-
bourne, is a brother.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Blue P.”: One of the silliest stock
statements is that used by newspapers,
when reporting death or serious injury to
someone, that if the person hadn’t been
there it wouldn’t have happened. It
bobbed up again when an Australian was
killed by a bomb explosion in a Singa-
pore hotel. He “would not have been
killed if he had gone to his usual hotel.”
The reporter came to this momentous
conclusion upon discovering that the un-
fortunate man “usually stayed at” an-
other hotel. Of every person killed and
maimed throughout human history it
could be said that he wouldn’t have
suffered the particular accident which did
the damage had he been somewhere else
at the time. It’s a profound thought: the
Road Safety Council ought to get on to
it and * start a campaign to persuade
people to be somewhere else when the
accident which would have involved them
occurs.
* * * *
“X.S.”; The recent peregrinations of
a County Court action constitute a Mel-
bourne record. It came first before
Judge Norris, who opined that it would
not be completed before he had to sit
in General Sessions, so he passed it on
to Judge Dethridge. That Solon then
remembered that he had represented a
witness for the plaintiff when he was an
ordinary lawyer, so the buck was passed
to Judge Stretton, who was about to
start proceedings when he recalled that
the same witness had been a clerk in his
employ 20 years ago, so the much-travelled
case was transferred to Judge Mitchell.
It is still looking for a hearing, as that
judge remembered he had also been the
man’s employer.
* * * *
“Bo”: No clearer manifestation could
be imagined of the stout determination
of the A.B.C. to offset by rigid economies
its costly independent “news” service
than its austerity campaign as practised
at Sydney’s Conservatorium for a recital
by a young lady pianist who appeared
last week under the Commission’s aegis.
It must have been a terrific temptation
to yield to the natural desire for the
aesthetic effect by providing a backdrop
of some soft material such as black velvet.
That this was repulsed, and there was
retained the 1902-style background of
drab grey-blue wood which needed only
a barred window in it and a uniformed
official holding a huge bunch of keys to
wander on to the stage to give the natural
effect, was indeed a tribute to the Com-
mission’s unswerving loyalty to its new
creed. The supplying of a couple of
palms would not only have made the
place too much like a conservatory and
perhaps distracted the audience’s —and the
performer’s—attention from the main
business of the night, but might have
bumped the annual deficit up by another
four bob. But perhaps the most com-
mendable feature was the withholding
of the usual bunch of flowers for the
artist. Look at the price of cellophane
—and, anyway, they’d be dead the next
day, so what odds?
* * * *
Gramp”: There was some cheering
news in connection with water in Vic-
toria last week when 2501 b. of gelignite
blew 50 tons of rock to pieces under the
Grampians range, thus linking two ends
of a tunnel which will divert the waters
of the Glenelg River back into Wimmera
and Malice irrigation channels. It will be
the first time in the history of Australia
that a river flowing to the sea has been
turned back and forced to flow inland.
It took three years to drive the tunnel a
mile through the mountains; the join
was perfect.
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: It’s indisputable that the
fellow who sings because he feels happy
with the world gets a rough time in Aus-
tralia (B. 29/3/’5O). And if he sings at
his work he is positively sticking his neck
out: public and employer are both
down on him. The former can think of
but one thing that could make a man
sing while working: intoxication. And
most bosses seem to reason that a man
can’t be as happy as that and still be
doing his work. Some months ago a
Sydney bus-driver allowed the song in
his heart to flow forth in carefree melody.
Alighting passengers promptly informed
the nearest constable: “The driver of that
bus is blind drunk.” The vehicle was pur-
sued and the driver examined. He was
found to be sober, sane and a non-
drinker.
* * * *
“Spoke”: The newly-arrived Irishman
who was struck by Melbourne’s respect
for the departed, inasmuch as buses are
“Take your pick , dear!”
run there marked “Free to Wakes,” was
laboring under a delusion. Wake’s Mail
Orders is a Swanston-street store which
has been shouldering some of the
£1,000,000 loss of custom caused by the
tram-strike.
* * * *
“Kelms”: I recall one of those pre-
degree-day dentists (B. 29/3/’5O). He
operated in Perth during the goldfields
boom, and although he wasn’t handi-
capped by any university-gained theory,
he was a sound practical psychologist,
and was considered a good dentist —or at
least tooth-extractor —of the strong-arm
type. He didn’t confine his activities to
dentistry, though. At his stand in the
open street he operated at night, when
the crowd was around —you could buy
five sovereigns for half-a-crown or take
a chance of finding the lady or picking
the shell with the pea in it. He sold a
lot of brummy jewellery at ridiculous
prices, depending on how you looked at
it, and if you weren’t too big he’d fight
you for half-a-crown. He later estab-
lished himself in a shop, presumably at
the time of the legislation mentioned by
“Ike Hollar,” and he appeared to flourish.
His clientele included a lot of people
who had seen him operate in the street
and knew that once he got a grip of that
molar you and it would be separated.
There was a big feeling, in those days,
that the namby-pamby products of the
university lacked the necessary strength.
“Clooter”: As one with some ex-
perience in these matters I’m intrigued
with the story of a King’s Cross (Sydney)
man who, returning home early the other
evening, found the house locked up and
himself locked out. Assuming that his
wife had gone out he did what I’ve often
done: looked for an open window.
Having found one, he was scrambling
through when a glass cup hit him in the
dial, cutting a cheek and knocking him
to the ground. Found in the street stag-
gering and bleeding, he was taken to
hospital; the police force turned out,
traced the blood-trail, and found within
the house the man’s wife. She, it appears,
had been awakened by the noise at the
window, picked up the cup and let the
“intruder” have it. She is reported to have
“collapsed” when told she’d laid out her
husband ; though whether because of his
identity or because of her shock at his
coming home so early isn’t clear. As I
said, I’m intrigued. Having been the
target of wifely missiles, I can’t believe
that any wife can take deliberate aim at
a man and hit him, but this story shows
what can happen when a wife is sud-
denly awakened and takes a shot in the
dark. Henceforth I’m avoiding risks of
that sort.
* * * *
“R.A.S.”: Easily the star turn at
Sydney’s. Easter Show was put on
by a Border Collie dog named Cap, one
of a team of six dogs brought to the
show by Richard Fortune „of N.Z., who
put them through an astonishing exhibi-
tion of training and sagacity in working
six sheep—one act alone, that of separat-
ing the three white from the three black
sheep, was worth going miles to see.
During the performance the announcer
asked for complete silence from the
crowd so that the dogs, working under
floodlights in the ring, could hear For-
tune’s signals. On Easter Monday night,
with crowd and dogs tense as the per-
formance neared its end, it was Cap’s
duty to squat near a pole wide out from
the sheep. The trainer, in dead silence,
and with 80,000 or so eyes on him and
the dogs, had paused between two move-
ments when Cap was overcome by that
canine instinct which refuses to see a
pole, post or tree go to waste. In one
quick movement he’d obeyed the instinct
and resumed his position, but the gale of
amusement must have been heard on
the Blue Mountains.
* * * *
“F.SWhat I took for a modernist
art journal lobbed on my desk the other
morning. On the cover was a color re-
production of a still-life, and appended
was the analysis of it by an art critic of
the N. Y. “Herald Tribune,” written in
terms which would have been an over-
statement even if the artist had been
Velasquez, Rembrandt and Titian all
boiled into one. Other illustrations in-
cluded a picture of a Caesarean section,
on which subject the artist had let v
self go and given us all the d l m
closer inspection I discovered that 2 n
paper was not an art i™,™ i , the
medical trade the 5 f but a
picture was really a poster fn?K Stetrical
the sale of pentothal sodium aJSf mg
or something, and it had hem dS t etlC
man who, no doubt neve/L • by a
was a Rembrandt or even a
modern, but just a commeS^" 8
doing a job and using the stvle l u ftlst
able at the moment and known ° L n '
modern idiom” in the jLgoTo?
portant critics. The amusing part a h?:
it was that the quality of thir about
was just as goodV as
seen in modern exhibitions If h? 8
knew it, the commercial artist W n^ y
only have had to put frame/?™ ? ld
pictures and send them t™an yw d , his
art show to find himTelt
claimed as a genius. g 1 pro ‘
* * *
“Espee”: The doctor in our small
country town becoming concerned at the
state of his own health consulted a
specialist in the city. Returning home
after a fortnight’s absence he was accost™
by an old stickybeak friend. “Well
Doctor,” he said, “I’m g l ad to see you
home again. What was the trouble?”
“Tif a li y i° nt > kn ° W ’’’ said the me dico.
nothing ” nky doctors n °wadays tell you
* * * *
“Mullum”: Rain-insurance policies (B
29/3/’5O) may prove of value to the
Sydney R.A.S., but they have always
seemed a gamble to me. Our local cricket
association has taken out over 20 policies
during the last couple of years and has
never received a penny in return, though
two matches have been abandoned, and
several others suffered because of rain.
'Die main difficulty is selecting the right
time for the insurance to operate. Heavy
rain the previous night may make the
wicket unplayable, although the day is
cloudless. Light showers just before com-
mencing-time will keep many spectators
away. The luncheon period is critical,
too; that is when the afternoon spectators
decide whether to stay at home or chance
the weather and go out.
* * * *
“Metax”: A record timber shipment
has been made from Burnie (Tas.)—
1,700,000 super, feet, mostly myrtle, has
been measured into a single ship bound
for London and Liverpool. The nearest-
size single lift * from the same port,
1,000,000 super, feet, was made 35 years
’•go.
♦ * * *
“Beau Forte”: And still another use
for sulphur (B. 15/3/’so)—but be careful
if you try it. A fellow I knew who
scrounged his honey from bush hives
figured that, if sulphur fumes would kill
bugs and fleas and other vermin, a little
in his smoker should also kill bees and
so enable him to get his honey without
suffering stings. I saw him try the idea
out. A few puffs settled the bees, but
the worst was to come. He got a whiu
of the fumes himself, took the count, an
the honey he didn’t get cost him doctor s
fees.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Science in dietary doesn’t
appeal to most modern children. V
grandson, aged six, was being ~n
his mother to eat up his carrots, t j
make you see in the dark,” she P •
suasively. “I’d rather have fin electric
torch,” said the infant.
% sfs
“Lawmucot”: Hitch-hikers are not all
miserable cadgers, but as a class t ey
the most impudent and arrogant P a .
that infest Australia. After J*
hundreds of free rides I have a
most of the intellectual benefits s .
emphasised by “Scrutator” (& '
with the result that lam an eX P e . 0 f
tragedy of Phar Lap, the fflg of
bodyline bowling, the sdper
Bradman and the crime of y a nks.
borough and Shannon to had
Once I picked up three an d
been given a ride of over 1 <jes-
dropped within eight miles o £ { at
tination. They were high y s un til
having to wait nearly thre mine,
the next car, which happened t 0
came along. Die techmq eS \
have improved since ; scor waV e of
have stopped at the peremp far
a hand,, and have b f t heir des*in a '
are you going?” If sb ° rt J often with'
tion, you are dismissed, v y often
out a thank-you. Failur Qtf\slxo&
brings a string of abuse. along a
I tailed a new utility 16 truck was
main highway. Nine tim promp^
ignored by hitch-hikers, QeW high-
hailed me. No trucks for
waymen. Nothing less th h.
ODE ON PRIVATE ENTERPRISE.
“Mr. David Butterick, of Wedderburn, Victoria,
has taken £17,500 in nuggets of gold from a
paddock he bought from the Bank of Australasia
for £l5O three years ago.”
Happy the man whose wish and care
A few auriferous acres bound,
Content to mine his native ore
In his own ground.
Whose bank with freehold, and with stronghold,
Credits the burrowings of the thrifty:
Some seventeen thousand pounds in gold
For his hundred and fifty.
Blest, who can unconcern’dly find
Banks that will give so much away
In health of body, peace of mind,
At this time of day;
For there be some whom study and ease,
Unwisely mixed, find meditation
On pressing banking companies
Towards socialisation.
Let such men live unseen, unknown;
And, as they lived, so let them die:
Steal from the world, and not a stone
Tell how they lie.
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


“Sackville St”: That “Labor” poll-
tician who voiced his distrust of all
Reginalds and Percivals because of their
relation to “the old school tie” (B.
29/3/’5O) must have been a singularly
unobservant man. Highfalutin monickers
are by no means confined to the
upper-crust. The loudest-voiced, strongest-
languaged youth that ever sold race-
books around Sydney’s dockside pubs
was the most un-Aubrey-like citizen who
ever answered to that name. A hero of
my boyhood days was one Bunger Brown.
His father drove a certain vehicle around
the township at night. Bunger’s method
of playing football was to get the ball,
run, and keep on running. Only the
brave and the crippled succeeded in halt-
ing his lumbering charges. When he
married the local paper published an
account of the event, giving Bunger’s
proper name PercivaL Professional
boxers do not, as a rule, possess the “old
school tie” that seems to aggravate the
honorable member, but I can recall two
Archibalds, two Mervyns, one Havilah,
several Reginalds, a Stanislaus, two
Harolds, one Horace and a handful of
Keiths and Kevins. Which raises the
thought: would they have become fighters
if a “sissy” name hadn’t forced them to
deal with fellow-scholars who made
mocking reference to the high-sounding
handles?
* * Jfc i
“Castlereagh”: A fair Estonian whose
surname, Kirk, intrigued newspaper re-
porters on her arrival in Sydney confessed
that she had no idea how her family
came to bear a Scottish patronymic. “We
traced our ancestry as far back as we
could, and it is pure Estonian.” Was
traced back far enough? She is not
the only Balt in Australia to own a Scotch
surname. I know of a McCredie and a
ihompson. The explanation is probably
that they are all descended from Scottish
settlers in Estonia in the seventeenth
century, when Estonia was a Swedish
Possession. The Scots were as great
migrators in those days as in later, but
nti after the legislative union with
ngland (1707) not many went to the
wignsh colonies in America. Sweden was
eir bappy-hunting ground. Many joined
me semces ; some of them won Swedish
f . n bl “f y - Fersen (MacPherson), Hamil-
Swph- and °ickson are well-known
Pni.r f lstocrati c names. Russia and
fortmls a Xs. ad thCir qU ° taS ° f &OtS
“pi ,t * * *
cnnpp : T he Perth manager of a
head affi Randies in every State and
the rpt<V Ce m Melbourne recently reached'
he had mg ' age j Three months previously
ghin rf Ce i ved a letter from head-office
him m ,w he . USU u al notice ’ and advising
Writing aST tbe branch-manager in
ment B rll to r° bt ? m an acknowledg-
S a li her t f ° r . ehad to sit dow * and
three month ’ to bimself giving himself
Write 2 I n ? f tlce ' Then he had to
lodging his Jf- tter to himself acknow-
underLnd u ret [ rement instructions. I
asking flu wooMk W n te t 0 head -office
* The Atlantis
continent near I A PeS t 0 find the lost
garded as th^ th Azores, which are re-
Atlantis. That T Untain Peaks of old
and that its inhlvS continent did exist,
state of civilisatio tant - S attained to a high
although its rW° n V 1S Wlde ly accepted,
so its destruction is attributed to
varying causes. The most plausible theory
is that it wa§ submerged in the huge flood
caused by the rush of polar waters to
the equator when Luna, the planet, was
captured and became earth’s satellite,
the moon. At the same time, probably,
the Mongolian Sea, released by the break-
ing of its western dam, the Khaptagai
Mountains, roared across Asia and
Europe to fill the Caspian Depression, the
Sea of Azov, the Black Sea, and finally
the Mediterranean Valley. Plato spoke
of Atlantis as being larger than Asia
Minor and Libya together, and of its
kings as having dominion over all the
“ Don't you know it's dangerous to wake sleepwalkers , boy?”
lands, as far as Egypt and Greece. At
the time of the catastrophe many of its
soldiers, sailors and merchants, as well as
colonists, must have been abroad, and
these, unable to return to their homeland,
founded small colonies and perpetuated
the legend of the mighty State.
* * * *
“Taswegian”: Most people like to get
their money’s worth, but some are in
a class of their own. At our office we
used to buy a case of fruit from the
merchants apples, pears, sometimes
oranges—and split it up. One bloke who
allowed his wife a set amount each pay
for housekeeping expenses used to sell
her his share at current shop prices and.
pocket the difference. Another chap,
when he and his wife couldn’t eat all
the sandwiches they were served with at
a cafe, used to ask the waitress to wrap
them up for him. Then there was the
bloke who, the first time he took his girl
home from the flicks in a taxi, noticed
that the meter ticked over to another six-
pence at the corner about 20 or 30 yards
short of her home ; after that they always
“Wont you need a horse and a sword to go with it?"
got out at the corner. But the one who
tickled me most was Silas. We all used
to take turns to bring in tea and sugar,
and we threw in threepence a fortnight
each for milk. One day there was no
milk left for the second cup of tea;
Silas declared happily that it didn’t worry
him ; he preferred it black. “But you
always take milk,” I. pointed out. “Well,
I pay my whack, don’t I?” he demanded.
“Billy See”: There are too many
hopeful bald-heads running around in the
sunshine without a hat for “H. Hardupp”
to get away with his theory that his one-
time pal revived his hair by just that
means. Nor does constant wearing of a
hat produce baldness, or even thinning of
the hair. Now approaching 70, I have
worn a hat on every possible occasion
all my life —while toiling with hair drip-
ping with sweat in mine, foundry, field
and factory—yet still have a luxuriant
thatch. Hat or no hat has nothing to
do with baldness.
“Ho Hippeus”: Always knew that the
Bulletin withheld the “Sir” from Aus-
tralian knights, but last week you went
the other way (Red Page, 12/4/’5O),
putting a gratuitous handle on Hubert
Murray’s brother, Gilbert. It’s a bit
rough on the professor, as he evidently
shares your anti-titular sentiments ; I’d
lay pounds to gooseberries that he has
turned down a knighthood long ago.
Between the wars Gilbert did a lot of
highminded work to promote interna-
tional goodwill, and in 1941 received
the rare Order of Merit. But he’s known
best of all for his translations of Greek
dramatists into English verse. On their
way over, Aischylus and the other old
chaps seem to get rather Swinburnt, but
the effect is still good, and some of
Murray’s translations have run into a
dozen editions. Broadcasting to this
country from the 8.8. C. a short time
ago, Gilbert Murray called himself “an
old Australian long ago exported.” He
thought Australia held out great pros-
pects, but not so much for professors of
Greek —“objects that fetch higher prices
in Europe than in
the places where we
were manufactured.”
* *
“Bump”: Some
confusion was caused
in waterfront circles
when a Melbourne
daily announced that
the famous old
H.M.A.S. Cerberus,
which gave its name
to the training depot
of that name, was
being converted into
a private schooner
with a lofty 70-foot
mast and was going
on a family world
voyage. As Cerberus
was a steam-driven
ironclad which, when
it was first imported,
was the pride of the
Victorian Colonial
Navy and was
elderly when the
battle - cruiser Aus-
tralia arrived in Port
Phillip in 1913, old
salts shook their
heads and marvelled.
The Cerberus ac-
tually undergoing
conversion is a
diesel-engifted pin-
nace now lying in
the Rotten Row of Port Phillip shipping.
The real Cerberus found her graveyard
as a breakwater off the seaside resort or
Black Rock. Her bell has an honored
place at Flinders Naval Depot.
* * * *
“I M” • Added difficulties for rabbit-
inspectors and P.P. boards were possibly
foreshadowed by the ingenious defence
put forward on behalf of an Albury
(N.S.W.) landholder recently. He ad-
mitted receiving an order to destroy rab-
bits on his property, but submitted that
there was no evidence before the court
to show that he had not done so and
that the bunnies found on subsequent
inspection were not an entirely new lot. 1
The Beak adjourned the case to think this
oyer, while the inspector gloomily en-
visaged the possibility of having to
identify individual rabbits in future cases.
Eventually the landholder’s argument was
rejected, but it has opened up all sorts
of possibilities.
* ♦ * ♦
“Ware.”: “Bumpkin” may be interested
to know that his beloved cellars (B.
22/3/’5O) are still enjoyed by the present
generation in many parts of rural S.A.
However, they have become a little less
popular because of the queer coin-
cidence that, in the last three or four
years, refrigerators have become fashion-
able just when wool cheques have
reached carpet-size. But farm and station
homesteads still use them for storing the
amenities “Bumpkin” mentions—as well
as a couple he forgot. A cellar is a
natural haven for mice; that is why
Mum, backing down the steep, dark stairs,
usually supporting a tray of eggs, some-
times treads on Joe Blake.
* * * *
“Aestur”: Giving advice is an un-
certain business, and largely a waste of
time; people accept what coincides with
their intentions and ignore the rest. Still,
one piece of advice I received years ago
has stuck in my mind. At a wedding
presentation my boss, after the usual good
wishes, said, “No doubt your fellow-
workers have given you much advice
lately. My advice is: sift it carefully,
son, sift it carefully.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Occasionally a real-life
crime story does have a happy ending (B.
29/3 / ’5O). I once knew a wild, wayward
young man who was convicted on a shop-
breaking charge. He served his time and
came back—a much quieter youth wear-
ing a thoughtful expression. A month
later he was before the Beak again for a
repetition of the offence. He pleaded
guilty, and seemed quite happy to be put
out of circulation for another 18 months.
His return brought another surprise ; far
from being a sullen, embittered criminal
he was a keen young artisan with an
eye for business. “The first time woke
me up,” he declared. “Crime’s no good ;
but a man needs a trade in his hands.
They were teaching me bootmaking in
there, but my time expired before I’d
learnt it properly. The only thing to
do was get back and finish the course, so
that’s what I did. But I’ll never go back
again!” He didn’t. And his boot-
repairing business has long enjoyed a
reputation for scrupulous honesty in
workmanship—and prices.
* * * *
“Flathead”: I find in the advertise-
ments of the 1 World Almanac (1912):
“Dr. J. H. Dye has devoted his life to
relieving the sorrows of women. He has
proved that all pain in childbirth”
etc. Below this one is a different type of
ad., which says that by filling in (and
posting) the coupon one will receive free
“two quarts of Riley’s world-famous
whisky.” The large black headings on
these two ads. form one of the bright
spots of the almanac:
“TO WOMEN WHO DREAD
MOTHERHOOD!”
“FREE WHISKY!”
* * * *
“Melbn”: Melbourne City Morgue is
to be rebuilt this year into a modern
two-story structure; the old building,
which is a small Early Colonial mansion,
having served for 60 years, a place as
gloomy as its purpose. The only touch
of humor about it is its telephone number,
which is 13. Hundreds of people ring
the number on April Fool’s Day.
* * * *
“Max”: Reading the news tonight, our
announcer mentioned a little flood-bound
place by name and called it a hamlet,
then a few sentences later described it as
a village: it can’t be both. Both terms
have many and particular shades of mean-
ing in English history and law, but the
simplest way of separating them is to
describe a hamlet as a collection of houses
without a church ; village as a group with
a church. The hamlet usually belongs to
a village, and a village may possess more
than one hamlet under its parson. Hamlet
and village figure delightfully m the
Candle ford trilogy by Flora Thompson,
her chief characters being inhabitants or
a hamlet rather disdainfully regarded by
its mother village. The system gives rise
to the puzzling repetition of place-names
in parts of England, qualified by greater
lesser upper, lower, etc., and offers a
fascinating field of study to those who
like poring oyer the records of past days.
“TO THE PURE”
„ t v.i the theatre, once looked
Igy-SS? o£ skin ' tiBht
P u ants ’ rk W ere gay and gaudy
When the girl> "jSeWue and bawdy,
element’s severest rants
Were avidly directed detected
At the vice that a y t he rage.
In an Trhi fact for Igranted
They took the fact I y ianted
S Tn" SA* • on ,he S,age '
N» m R 0 « “S&f'oJ’S? level. ■
ari as mild as baby-soap,
r hptween their work exacting
of Hope.
veV old Se has wrought some changes,
That the purifying factor
F ?^em&“pliedTytom Man the Beasl.
W S', o ?S e °“ntagious,
No t " 0 ' X playwright has responded with a
will. , , „
You never hear a bloody, _
An All t bluLT P d t iafog n ue Ve thJy swiftly kill.
It not only purged the drama,
“tfi“.iSl P A„ m d a ,arie,y. you know,
Now eschews all double-meaning.
For this great job of cleaning „
Is a credit to the influence of Mo.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Solitude”: We’d been up to the top
run with cattle, and were returning late.
Down a steep slope Seventyfiver was a
few yards behind, and as he manoeuvred
through a rough patch I’d just negotiated
I caught a sudden curse and called the
usual query. “Aw, that blinded stirrup-
leather would have t’ break now.” he
growled. “When it’s been nearly through
for weeks. Think I’ll call in as we go
past an’ get a couple o’ them splificated-
rivets off Sandy. Make a lot better job
than tie-wire.” “No good calling on
Sandy now,” I remarked, when we neared
the old hut on the Deaddog. “He’ll be
asleep.” “Aw, he mightn’t, Sol,” argued
Seventyfiver. “I’ll see, anyway.” The
hut was in darkness, and the old bloke
rode in close to the door. “You asleep,
Sandy?” he called loudly. “Hey, you
asleep in there?” Leaning over, he banged
on the door with his whip-handle. There
was no response. “Better let it go,” I
suggested, catching the sound of snoring
within. “Sleeps like a bed-log, that
bloke. ’ “Yair, but he might be awake,”
persisted Seventyfiver. “No harm makin’
sure. Hey, Sandy!” he bawlefl, making
a. shattering attack on the door with his
boot till it flew open with a bang and
dislodged a pyramid of tinware from the
wall opposite. Don’t want t’ disturb v’
Sandy, but are y’ awake?” The snoring
ceased and Sandy’s sleepy grunt came in-
quiringly. “There y’ are,” crowed Seventy-
fiver, climbing off his nag. “I told y’ he
mightn t be asleep.”
* * * *
“Dinkum”; Edgar Wallace’s and Sax
Rohmer s best efforts seem helplessly
tame in the face of modern mysteries,
and apparently even the atora-bomb age
can’t produce a sleuth capable of solv-
ing the mystery of the missing mutton.
People no longer ask the question with
any hope of an answer. They murmur it
in a vague, hopeless way, as a dying
protest to their resignation. “Where does
all the mutton go to?” Don’t ask me.
I know it leaves the runs right enough.
Fattened on the hoof, it reaches the city,
“Well over, sir!”
goes under the hammer, then it disap-
pears completely. Only last week I
waved off a truckload of small but nicely-
fattened aged ewes, and after a journey
of mistake and trial word came back
they had made 325. 4d. With a skin
value of 145., it would seem to the
ignorant that city-folk were in for a few
cheap weekend joints. But, no. On a
city trip, I personally conducted the ex-
periment. “Loin of mutton, please,” I
asked the butcher. “No mutton,” he
snapped reproachfully. “Only lamb ; or
you can have two-tooth.”' “Ewe mutton,
please,” I tried the next knife-wielder.
When I repeated it, his disbelief turned
.to vague suspicion. “I can give you
lamb,” he scowled at me. “Nobody eats
mutton these days.” Redundant observa-
tion! But, with present prices and
pressure-cookers, I bet they’d like to —if
someone could catch the duffer lifting
all the old jumbucks.
* * * *
“Fairf”: So perfectly the small, silver-
colored moth matched the aluminium
paint it was almost impossible to see the
insect. A slight flutter as the door-bolt
shot into its socket was the give-away.
The amateur naturalist in me immediately
became interested. Nature, of course,
often equips her creatures with disguises to
match their environments, but aluminium
is not one of nature’s colors. Did
the moth know the silvered corrugated-
iron wall protected it, or had it merely
alighted there by chance? To find the
answer I gently disturbed the little
creature. It flew several then
clung to the wall again. Three
times I repeated the experiment; the moth
fluttered from the front to the side and
then the back. Determined to establish
or disprove my growing belief that the in-
sect knew it was the same color as the
shed, I carefully caught the frail body
between finger and thumb, took it ten
paces away, and liberated it where an un-
painted, corrugated-iron wall offered a
parking-place. The moth was heading
back towards the aluminium paint when
an unscientific spag with a mundane mind
ruined the experiment.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Salmon Gums”: A rainless March —
the first since 1886 —has supplied Perth
with evidence that the seasons aren’t
changing to any great extent. The sum-
mers can be just as dry and just as long
as they used to be, and the oldsters who
backed their claims by the assertion that
in “them” days you couldn’t churn butter
between October and April have lost a
good argument. The dryness of our
season has been emphasised by the eastern
States floods, which must have caused
Eastralian meteorologists to doubt the
veracity of our reports, or at least to
discount their value. At the height of
the Wagga (N.S.W.) flood a Perth radio
commentator, announcing another rain-
less day, concluded “Eastern States please
copy.”
■** * ♦
“Lower Tops’l”: While most of Vic-
toria has been inundated week after
week with record-breaking floods, King
Island, less than 100 miles from Port
Phillip, and where inhabitants have long
learned to walk semi-horizontally through
leaning against the gales and are in pro-
cess of developing webbed feet, there are
droughts and calms. For weeks there
has not been enough wind to work a mill.
and permanent creeks are so dry the
scheelite mine—the biggest of its kind in
the world, incidentally—has had to close
down.
* * * *
“Bo”: We came on Sam as he was
nailing strips of bark to a shallow up-
ended V-shaped frame outside his hut
beside the bend on the creek. Sam
looked up as we approached. “Thought
it was time I did somethin’ about that
roof o’ mine,” he volunteered. He
pointed upwards with the stem of his
pipe to the gaping holes. “Last storm
we got did that. Man gits a shower-
bath in bed now ev’ry time it rains.”
“But you’ll neVer get that up in one
piece,” my mate pointed out. “It’d be
too heavy for you to lift. Why don’t
you put one sheet on at a time?” “Too
much like hard graft,” replied Sam in his
tired voice. “We ain’t had a hood in
cs,T> blac^
“Be careful with the piano, too, warder."
these parts for some time now an’ we’re
about overdue for one. When it comes
all I’ll have to do then is float me new
roof on!”
♦ * * ♦
“Towser”: A railway length-runner in
the outback does more than just patrol
the permanent way. He is a social in-
stitution, an information-receiver and
-transmitter and a solace to bulk-wheat
men, who, leading lonely lives, sometimes
act oddly One new man stopped at a
siding and strolled over towards Nugget’s
camp. Across the still morning air C
could hear Nugget inside bellowine Vo
himself “Eat that fat, Nugget* St t
you little blankard, or I’ll shove yoir
head under the next train. That meal
cost three and a zack. Do y’ think I’m
going to see y’ waste it?” The lengtlT-
runner s face was as white as plaster With
trembling legs he crept back to his trike
and tore off towards Doorka to tell th*m
the bulk-wheat man had gone mad. The
S.M. laughed uproariously. “They must’ve
forgot to tell you,” he said. “Nugget’s
got a little brown dog. His name is
Nugget, too!” b
*** ’ *
“Old Bushman”; Magpies have a
peculiar propensity for falling down
chimneys. At a Gippsland (Vic.) home-
stead a flock reside on the roof-tops, and
each autumn, as soon as fly-wires come
off chimney-tops, down comes a maggie
flapping as he comes and bringing a
barrow-load of soot. Worse, the soot-
carriers quietly retire to the quietest
corner of the house to roost, a favored
spot being the back of the best chairs in
the sitting-room. Anyway, this year
we’re replacing fly-wires with wire-
netting..
* * * «
“Gravelsnatcher”: When “Zake” (B.
29/ 3/ ’5O) speaks of “gelignite fuse” I
take it he means the ordinary blue-sump
fuse used to initiate the detonator that
detonates the gelignite. That certainly
wouldn’t be extinguished by being passed
through water, since it is designed to burn
for a time when immersed. Nor would
the water affect the gelignite. But water
could prevent the explosion if it entered
the “cap,” where it would douse the spark
before it reached the fulminate of mer-
cury, the usual detonating agent. Alter-
nately, the passage through the water
wouldn’t necessarily prevent the explosion
of blasting-powder, provided that only
the fuse got wet. The same fuse is used
with both explosives, the difference being
that to initiate gelignite, or any of the
high explosives, a detonator is required,
whereas with blasting-powder, which is
a low explosive and can be ignited with
a spark, the fuse only is required. Of
the two, the low explosive is by far the
more dangerous to handle. A form of
blasting-powder is used as the core of
the blue-sump fuse, but it is protected
from water by a waterproof internal
covering. When used under water it is
necessary to spread a thick covering of
grease over the cap after the fuse has
been inserted and the cap clinched. It s
unlikely that by “gelignite fuse” “Z.’
means a detonating fuse. That certainly
wouldn’t be doused by water or anything
else, but since it requires a detonator to
initiate it, it would scarcely be used by
even a thriller murderer. Detonating fuse
has a core of T.N.T., or some similar
agent, in powder form, and it is literally
instantaneous; the Army calls it ruse
* ryn, It’s
Instantaneous Detonating • •/£’ es at
used to initiate a number =j t is
various points simultaneously, it>
started by a detonator, strap?. by a
which is in turn, of course, n Jy
length of fuse. The F-I-D. * s . tied
to each charge and inserte » bs 0 f
around, the sticks of geligni carries
T.N.T. or guncotton, to whicn fflCtres
a detonating wave at about
per second.
TO KEATS, FROM AN AUSTRALIAN
HOMESTEAD.
Here the night is warm and mild, the gloom
Starry with fireflies. Life is rich with change.
Scents of pawpaw and of orange-bloom
Are. wafted outward to an empty range.
Striving to see the landscape where you bent
Words to your desire, I ponder long
Whether the scene’s pale beauty somehow lent
Its own enchantment to each matchless song,
Or if by chance you had been bom, like me,
Into a rougher, a more ruthless land.
Would all that white-hot inspiration be
Checked or changed? Less sure that flying
hand?
Here on my desk of Queensland pine lies naught
That could attest to Art or elegance—
To that arrested motion which you caught
Static forever in deep golden trance.
Only, from a silent, sun-dried place
Where wild clematis hung like bursts of stars,
And orchids plumed the mountain’s weathered
V face,
■Hils axe of stone pitted with ancient scars,
A necklet of red berries, and this wing
Of parrot flame and green; this brittle bowl —
Poor shallow wooden gourd, with wavering
Design burnt on its surface with a coal.
Would craftsmanship so crude, so obsolete,
Have wakened in your mind the fevered glow
Fired by country mirth in some retreat.
Traced on an urn in Athens long ago?
It could not be. For from these stanzas fall
Essences so precious and so frail
They at the touch of my Neanderthal
Would dry at source. The hidden nightingale.
Moonlight, romance —all of your Art and you
Can have no share in Truth as it was seen
From under heavy brows whence light shone
through
Faintly, as on a semi-darkened screen.
Yet he who proudly parried in his belt
Of human hair this prized though clumsy
blade,
Bewildered exaltation may have felt
At embryos of lyrics that he made.
Living half in and half outside his dream
The archaic seeker groped through long duress
With hunt and battle, feast or dance for theme,
Striving to set it down, record, express.
And tracing with my finger this charred sign,
I know that oft in travail and despair
The craftsman yearned towards the perfect line;
The eternal poet labored here as there.
Could you have glimpsed him from your weary
bed
Where in bleak misery of winter’s gloom
You lay with bloodied lip—heart, too, that bled,
And all too readily, perchance—that room
You’d have ’ forsaken everything at hand
Of genius and immortality,
For his rude health, the warm and shelving sand
That made a couch for nomads such as he,
Where, heedless of the daylight slipping by,
He smiled to see his masterpiece unfold.
His sable head outlined against the sky,
And ‘sunlight round him bright like cloth-
of-gold.
QUEENSLAND.
E.M. ENGLAND.


FOR greater
SMOKING
pleasure
Choose a NIMROD Drysmoker
Fitted with the famous hygienic filter, the
Nimrod Drysmoker is a Milder, Cleaner, Cooler
Pipe. Bowl stays dry. Tobacco burns evenly.*
Flavour is improved. No waste. The carbonised
bowl is already broken in for instant comtort-
able smoking. Order your particular shape
straight or bent—by mail, from Andrew McGee.
ENGLISH BRIAR
PIPE
963
23 Shapes
to choose from
936
988
PRICE
27 1 e
Plus 9d for Postage
g
fg
f
gf
g
Obtainable from Sydney’s
foremost tobacconist
Est. 1887
ANDREW
McGEE
I Castlereagh Street, 70 Pitt Street, Sydney
“MS”’ Mick drove his new car into
the shade by the post-office, stepped out
proudly and took in the town There
was Ted Keating’s new sedan parked over
there by the store. Mick hadn’t seen it
before He’d slip over now and have
a look at it while no one was around.
Probably wasn’t as good as his own, but
he’d soon find out. He climbed into
Ted’s car, tried all the gadgets, inspected
the engine, and was moving away when
he spotted the glittering model near the
blacksmith’s shop. Whew! That must
be Andy’s maroon. Mick gave it the
once-over, examined the gears and the
wiring, and was strolling back towards
the pub when Casey pulled in. “Gripes,
don’t tell me you’ve got a new one, too,”
Mick said to him. “Not a bad-looking
job. Give us a try of her.” He backed
Casey’s car round, raced it up the road
and back, and climbed out with a grin.
“Seems all right,” he agreed. “What’s
the engine like?” In the act of unfasten-
ing the bonnet he paused and glanced
towards his own car. “Cripes, who’s that
making over there?” he asked suspici-
ously. “I better go. Got my own new’n
over there, and you’ve got to watch out
for ’em all right, haven’t you? Only
got to leave it round her for a few
minutes and sure as eggs some inquisitive
goat’ll start messing round with it.”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: A Bridgetown (W.A.)
apple-cocky had a visit from a flock of
black cockatoos, and is a couple of
hundred cases worse off as a result. I’ll
accept that estimate without question.
"—and that's the thirteenth hole behind the clubhouse."
dam 3 blrdS p Can do a terrific amount of
™t in a and their flocks
sZfnf *u nUl ? ber th °usands. Around
wheatbelt a? JS? 8 , rock -°utcrops in the
-hinHi U the thlck cr °P s of double-gees
in mvr Jf *‘Eastralians-attract them
black anrf’ n. nd When they rise the air is
A flock U? ey - Can be heard for miles.
devastate S i? m f . 1 ve seen would
sta.e an orchard in no time. Beats
me, though, why they went for apples.
All they’d be interested in would be the
pips, which makes it a lot of work for a
small reward. Gumnuts are a better
mark, and when I say they’re not much
tougher I mean for a cockatoo’s beak.
The bloke at Bridgetown shot some of
them, an act which would be frowned on
in the wheatbelt, Where they’re considered
good double-gee eradicators.
“Gravelsnatcher”: The black
cockatoos are flying again over my part
of W.A., and the suburban naturalists
reckon their raucous chatter portends
rain. It does to the extent that the birds
are winter visitors, and it usually rains in
winter here. When I hear them I don’t
look at the clouds —I count the birds.
Now I’ve seen them, both the red-tailed
varieties of the wheatbelt and their white-
tailed cousins of the sou’-west, in all
numbers from three up to uncountable
flocks, and wherever I could count them
there was never an even number. Are
they polygamous, or are there narks even
amongst birds?
* * * »
“Old-timer”: Glad to know George
Beecher is still afloat (B. 12/4/’5O), but
if he’s “still carting from the railheads
with a horse-team” it seems a reflection
on the Vic. railways, which ran a line up
from Manangatang, through Robinvale
and Euston and out to Lette, some years
ago—or has the line become lost under
the drift sand? B. himself nearly suffered
that fate about 30 years ago. He was
on his way from Mildura with a load,
mainly beer, and in Euston, where the
stuff had run out, anxious eyes watched
the road and sundry horsemen went
forth to try to locate the team. Some-
where about 3 o’clock in the afternoon a
rider, rolling in the saddle and grinning
happily, lobbed into Euston with word
that Beecher had broken the king-pin of
the wagon at the Reindeer gate, about
18 miles out. It was a dry and dusty
afternoon, and in about 10 minutes every
horse, buggy, cart, j inker, car and bicycle
in and around Euston was racing down
the Mildura-road. The dust of that
cavalcade rose above the mallee, and
when Beecher saw it he took it for a
storm and was sheeting down the load
when the first car reached him.
“S.E.”; Monty, holidaying out at
Charlie Grubb’s, was making himself
useful irrigating the maize paddock. He
scratched many tiny gutters across the
top and enjoyed the job of directing the
water from the small race down the dry
rows. He was at it just after midday,
moving the water slowly ajong, when
presently the flow stopped. Monty walked
to the race, looked up and down it
stupidly, theft, thinking there must be a
breakaway further up, strode off up-
stream. He checked the race to its source,
then stopped dumbfounded to stare at
the creek-bed. It, too, was empty. Bent
on further investigation, he had taken
only a couple of steps when down came
the water once more, and after a few
puzzled minutes he returned to the maize
patch. He forgot the incident until the
“D'you mind, while I'm waiting ?”
following day, when, on the job just after
midday, the water again stopped. A little
fearful of some supernatural agency at
work, he called Charlie. “The water,’’
he said, pointing worriedly. “It’s gone.”
Charlie scowled at the race for a minute ;
then his dial relaxed in a wide grin. “Aw,
it’ll be old Drydowt,” he explained.
“He’s camped up on those waterless
ranges at the back there, doing some
fencing, and every day ’bout this time
he comes down to the creek for a drink.”
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: A stringybark roof
(B. 22/3/’5O) in the colonial days was
like Brian O’Lynn’s famous sheepskin
breeches, which had the woolly side out
and the skin side in. Stripped fresh from
the tree, it was nailed, or laid, on with
the bark out, exposed to the weather,
and the sap-side in. Nature made it that
way when she designed the stringybark
gum. And just how well stringybark
resists the penetration of rain was taught
to ‘me early. Camped many a time in
the Victorian bush, we always found
kindling for a fire, even in the heaviest
rain, by stripping off the outer layers ;
the inner bark would always be dry. And
that is just how a stringybark roof, laid
bark up, keeps out the weather. As for
the suggestion that unless seasoned the
sap-side will rot —well, it might eventu-
ally, but it will give many years of good
service, and that without the necessity
for any seasoning period.
* * * * *
“Espee”; Every wet season on my
Queensland farm I find on the grassy
banks of newly-made streams of rain-
water (never near permanent water)
grasshoppers which, when disturbed, dive
into the water and seize either a grass-
blade or stem. There they remain sub-
merged but clearly visible until all
danger has passed, when they rise and
swim to the bank.
* * * *
“Kelms”; The suggestion (B. 29/3/’5O)
that “once a mule-mare has foaled she
may do so again: if to a stallion, only to
a stallion; if to a donkey, only to a
donkey,” smacks a little of telegony. I’ve
heard that theory argued in bush camps
all over W.A., and I’ve seen examples
which have been held to prove that if a
mare, say, foals to a certain breed of
stallion or, more markedly, to a jack-
donkey, all her subsequent foals will bear
a resemblance to her first union. It’s
against all veterinary reasoning, but I
recall a mare which foaled to a jack
donkey. All her subsequent foals, by
stallions, had long ears.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; We were somewhere
on the road between Lascelles and Hope-
toun (Vic.) when we rounded a bend and
came upon a chap obviously making
roadside repairs to his car. “This is a
chance for a lift,” I said. “All we got t’
do is give him a hand an’ we ought t’
ride the last ten miles into Hopetoun in
style.” Mat eyed the scene, then he said,
“Look, see that house about half a mile
up the road, ahead of him? Well, he’ll
keep. You just wait here, and when y’
see me cornin’ away from that house y’
can make up t’ him.” Mat went off at
a tangent in the scrub and I sat on my
swag and watched the motorist, who
didn’t know I was there. Presently Mat
came from the house. I picked up the
knots and closed on the motorist. He
was glad of our company if not our help,
and that’s how we rode to Hopetoun with
a big handout in Mat’s nosebag. Brains
are useful on the track.
* * * *
“Howie Wing”: Foxes are omnivorous
and wily in their search for food (B.
1/3/’5O), but you have to come to W.A.
to see really intelligent vulpine foraging.
The baker leaves my bread in a box at
the gate, and the foxes have learned to
scale the gate-post, lift the lid and
scrounge the loaves. I have tried various
snares and traps, also sundry intricate
catches for the box, but Reynard always
manages to avoid the one and master the
other. In desperation I bought a padlock
with two keys, giving one to the baker
and keeping the other for my own use. As
I fixed the lock in place on the box I
noticed a slight rustling in a near-by bush,
but thought nothing of it at the time.
That night I was wakened about midnight
by something rummaging amongst the
clothes hung at the foot of my bed.
Hurriedly striking a match, I was just m
time to see a big red fox dashing out of
the camp with a key in his mouth.
THE FLOAT.
. a „A cnun hobbled and spun,
Bobb i ed <heet silver, on the golden flare
0n the sheet save , Bobbkd and spun>
Of \ be A . Wo The depths like a platypus
And ?nd submerged, and the boy watching
Felt"* his heart bobble and spinning.
cninning, whirling and whistling:
Bobb iw’tautened the line crying,
The line tau « . {h Sllver flashing,
41 riougtd “nT®he water hiising, ,
Water ptoug d bu fl. no se rushing,
fjfboblTal’d ttPinno more - lhous>l
gobble and spin no less.
In the heart is the perch, as the perch in the
feJome’and bull-nosed, rushing forever.
N.S.W.
L. E. HASTOE.


30
r*
<2
<3
Safeguarding Estdt© IHV©StfH6lltS
demands this specialised knowledge
"pAMILIARITY with legal requirements,
A investment values, taxation and property
details is a paramount responsibility of the
Executor or Trustee charged with the duty of
administering an estate involving commercial
or pastoral interests. Such knowledge is far
beyond individual capacity.
The Union Trustee Company is well qualified
by nearly 65 years’ experience to accept this
responsibility, and will act either jointly with,
or in place of, those who seek relief from such
onerous tasks. Charges are moderate; service
is most comprehensive.
You are invited to call —or write for a copy of “Important.
Facts Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.’- .
the UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA LTD.
___ «... _ (Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885 . _
333 Collins St, Melbourne; 2 O’Connell St,Sydney; 398-402 Queen St,Brisbane; and at Albury,Townsville,Toowoomba and Rockhampton
nly Trustee company having offices each with its own Board of Directors and management in three States Victoria, New South Wales and Queens an
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
City Electric Light Co. (Brisbane)
t Dividends
Jan., Profit. Ord. Pref. Total. Reserves.!
1943.. 104,423 5i p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 104,423 1,509,307/
Written off debenture exes., £3944 .. 1,613,251
Net additions reserves, £110,346 .. 1,623,597
1944.. 153,856 5i p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 104,496 1,672,957
Written off debenture exes., £3941 .. 1,676,898
Net additions reserves, £97,916 .. 1,774,814
1945.. 167,016 5J p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 104,496 1,837,334
Written off debenture exes., £3940.. 1,841,274
Net additions reserves, £102,179.. 1,943,453
1946.. 163,251 5i p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 127,407 1,979,297
Written off debenture exes., £715.. 1,980,012
Net additions reserves, £120,938. . 2,100,950
1947.. 159,047 5i p.c. 6& T p.c. 130,473 2,129.524
Added debenture exes., £Bl6 .. 2,128,708
Net addition reserves, £149,022 .. 2,277,730
1948.. 198,486 5i p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 157,847 2,318,369
Net addition reserves, £158,041.. 2,476,410
1949.. 260,779 5i p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 182,401 2,554,788
Net addition reserves, £188,593.. 2,743,381
Added intangibles, £7116 ..2,736,265
1950.. 114,432 5J p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 215,268 2,635,429
t After deducting intangibles (now £107,513).
There is no need to be alarmed about
the sharp drop of £146,347 in last term’s
profit. The slip was “a temporary set-
back due to special factors not likely to
be repeated,” the chairman says. They
were chiefly a steep rise in the price of
coal and the mischievous strike by the
coalminers. The lift in coal prices alone
added £170,000 to the year’s outgoings,
while the strike reduced output of current,
and therefore revenue, and further aggra-
vated the costs problem, to which lifts
in wage-rates and prices for other
materials also contributed. To the con-
sumer it all meant a 30 p.c. increase in
tariff rates for current, which came too
late to'benefit last accounts. Still, the
ord. div. was maintained at the 5i p.c.
authorised by legislation, the reserve fund
being drawn upon for £100,836 to pay
it—this fund, specially created to meet
such a contingency, now stands at
£235,461. * .>
The co. is the executive instrument in
the big Government-controlled scheme for
extension of electric-supply throughout
south-eastern Queensland, which contains
over half the population of the State. It
also holds a Inng-term franchise covering
the Tweed River district, over the border
in N, S. Wales. Its job is to attend to
generation, reticulation, maintenance and
other matters upon which the efficiency
and success of the undertaking depend.
And in all these things it has given a
good account of itself.
The div. is anchored at 2 p.c. above
the rate carried by voluntarily-subscribbd
Commonwealth loans during the preced-
ing year. The selling-price of current is
fixed accordingly by Government autho-
rity, after allowing for exes., including
depreciation, the cost of debenture and
pref. money and a moiety (1 p.c. on
capital) for the reserve fund. After add-
ing £188,593 net to the renewals account,
etc. (£2,213,903), the £114,432 of profit
earned was £168,504 less than the co.
was entitled to earn under the provisions
of its franchise. However, the recent lift
in selling-prices for current is expected
to fill the gap, and a bit more, during
the current term.
Investment interest in the co.’s ord.
scrip, which commands a premium in the
market, centres firstly in the security
aspect and secondly in the prospect
of capital gain from new share-
issues at par. Last term 1,621,566
new £1 ords. were offered and taken,
two for five, at par, and £500,000
of 3i p.c, debentures were issued
as well. When the books closed paid
capital stood at £4,659,403 in 20,000 6 p.c.
and 125,000 7 p.c. prefs. and 5,530,481
ords., with £1,016,078 still to come on the
new shares. The debenture debt figured
at £2,012,000, and was costing the co. on
the average 3.69 p.c. p.a. Still, a lot
more money will be needed to finance the
big programme of extension in country
districts and erection of the new Bulimba
“B” power-station, both of which have
been hampered by shortages of materials
and labor. To meet the outlay more
debenture money is to be gathered
presently, followed by a further issue of
new ord. shares early in 1952, details yet
to be announced in each case.
Outlay on capital account last term
amounted to £1,115,919, of which more
than half was spent on projects outside
Brisbane;
1948. 1949. 1950.
Capital .. .. £3,089,348 £4,052,564 £4,659,403
Debentures . . 1,512,000, 1,512,000 2,012,000
Sundry creditors. . 499,754 549,924 569,407
Property, plant,
mains, etc. .. 6,648,303 7,066,094 8,782,013
Stock .. ~ 623,126 607,664 746,726
Book debts, etc... 157,183 235,351 342,369
Cash, public securi-
ties, etc. .. 71,811 256,501 115,262
The growths of £139,062 in stocks and
of £107,018 in book debts reflect con-
tinued expansion of the undertaking and
rising prices. At Bulimba construction
has been retarded by lack of steel, which
the co. is now compelled to import at
greatly increased cost. Moreover, unless
this new plant is operating before the
winter of 1952 rationing of electricity in
s.-e. Queensland will become inevitable.
It all serves to illustrate how the un-
scrupulous and insidious aims of the
Communists to hamper output of coal
and steel and to slow-up production
generally are directed against the Aus-
tralian people.
Anticipating its benefits, the market
prices the ords. at 285., giving an immedi-
ate return of 3.6 p.c. on a 5| p.c. diV.
basis. The 6 p.c. prefs. at 295. and the
7 per cents, at 325. yield 4.3 p.c. in each
case. Including the renewals reserve and
uncalled and unpaid capital, net tangible
cover is 295. 3d. per pound of paid capital
—all shares rank equally for surplus
assets.
York Motors (Holding), Ltd. (Sydney)
akd Subsidiary.
/ Dividends— •>, To Re-
Nov., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1939.. 45,425 6i 5 20,565 24,860 139,261
1940.. 12,154 61 5 20,800 147,907
1941.. 23,382 64 5 20,800 2,582 145,325
1942.. 24,003 64 8.9 32,890 154,212
1943.. 27,354 64 3 13,812 13,542 140,670
From tax reserve, £3027 .. .. 137,643
1944.. 33,245 10.5 82,760 485 137,158
Added intangibles, £495 .. .. 137,653
From inner reserves, £10,006 .. 127,647
1945.. 52,620 9.9 31,158 21,462 106,185
1946.. 54.264 10 31,200 23,064 83,121
Added intangibles, etc., £2350 .. 86,471
1947.. 205,601 15 46,800 158,801 73,330
Reserves.
To Stock reserve, £50,000 .. .. 23,330
Reduction intangibles, £9OO .. 24,230
Share premiums, £BB,OOO .. .. 112,230
1948.. 290,059 15 62,300 237,759 349,989
To stock reserve, £50,000 .. .. 299,989
Reduction intangibles, £9OO .. 300,889
1949.. 376,996 -r- 20 80,000 296,996 597,885
To stock reserve, £lOO,OOO .. .. 497,885
Like others engaged in the assembly and
distribution of British-made motor-
vehicles, York Motors is enjoying a
phenomenal run of prosperity. The dollar
problem has given British cars almost a
monopoly of the Australian market by
practically shutting out their American
competitors. The post-war hunger for
cars, together with good seasons, high
prices, inflated incomes and gradual im-
provement in the flow of chassis and out-
turn of bodies —last-mentioped has been,
and still is, chief bottleneck on the retail
side —have done the rest.
Consider the following comparison of
new motor-vehicle registrations in N. S.
Wales:
Cars. Lorries, Tractors,
etc. etc.
1938-39 19,924 7,712 1,714
1945- .. 526 2,234 6,426
1946- 7,998 5,487 19,662
1947- .. 16,659 9,079 34,172
1948- .. 25,466 11,674 49,284
No less than 76.5 p.c. of the 1948-49 new
cars came from U.K. and only 18.7 p.c.
from America. The lanuary, 1950, pro-
portions were 82.3 p.c. U.K. and 5.8 p.c.
American. Before the war the ratios were
60.6 p.c. American and 38.8 p.c. U.K.
And there are no indications that the
present position is likely to be reversed
in the near future. Another feature of
last year’s figures was that only 15 p.c. of
the cars were replacements, the rest being
a net addition to vehicles in use. Of
the new lorries, etc., put on the register
the ratio was about three-to-one in favor
of U.K. Still, manufacturers of British
cars cannot hope to hold their monopoly
on the local market indefinitely unless
they give more attention to incorporating
features suited to the physical require-
ments of the country.
The public is interested in the York
business through the 10-year-old holding
co. (paid capital £400,000), which owns
all the scrip in the operating concern
(York Motors Pty.), and little else. The
proprietary began in 1932, and now holds
franchises in N. S. Wales for Morris and
Chrysler cars and trucks, and for Rolls-
Royce, Bentley, Singer, Studebaker and
Willys cars, as well as for Fargo and
Mack trucks and Howard tractors. It
also holds agencies in Queensland for
Austin, Willys, Reo, Clectrac and Brit-
stand products.
Turnover, which shot up from £844,829
in 1945 to £5,504,000-odd in 1948,
advanced further last term. The leap in
gross earnings (£1,210.141) was £368,128.
After setting aside £10,16-3 (up £1950)
for depreciation and £268,165 (up £96,775)
for taxation, the net result expanded by
£86,937, reaching £376,996, which is
nearly seven times greater than the 1946
figure and over eight times the 1939 profit.
The £376,996 was a juicy 94.2 p.c. on
capital as against 83.2, 65.9, 17.4, 16.8
and 10.6 p.c. back to 1944. The board,
uncertain of what lies ahead in the trade,
lifted the div. from 15 p.c. to 20 p.c.,
and earmarked £lOO,OOO of the £296,996
that remained as a special stock reserve
to cushion possible price fluctuations
and/or alteration of the exchange rate.
This reserve (now £200,000) was 13.6 p.c.
of actual cost of stocks on hand at
November 30 last.
Over the last decade a deficit of
£139,261 on capital account has been
turned into tangible reserves of £497,885
(excluding stock reserve). Most of the
improvement occurred during the last
three years, when £BB,OOO of tresh share
capital, which brought with it a like
amount of share premiums, was intro-
duced into the business —£80,000 of
6} p.c. pref. capital had been returned
towards the end of 1943.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
Consolidated Figures.
1946. 1947.» 1948. 1949.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital.. 312,000 812,000 400,000 400,000
Overdraft .. 158,844 251,642 110,793
Creditors, etc. 210,814 430,270 682,945 1,547,615
Tax provision 125,726 183,951 306,617 326,626
Freeholds .. 52,835 52,835 108,457 110,757
Plant .. 16,650 28,631 38,990 57,313
Stocks . . 374,510 714,777 1,054,862 1,260,877*
Debtors . . 266,999 373,806 508,462 722,885
Investments . . 21,782 31,059 38,655 48,131
Cash . . 1,486 685 918 572,163
•After deducting special reserve, £200,000.
Last term the overdraft (£110,793 in
1948) was wiped out, £20,623 was added
to the book-value of fixed assets, £206,015
net to stocks, £214,423 to book debts and
£571,245 to cash,, etc. It all suggests that
chassis came forward faster than bodies
could be made and vehicles assembled,
and that the queue of applicants who have
paid deposits on cars, etc., and are still
waiting for them, is a large one. In-
cluding the tax provision and stock re-
serve, the co. was holding 28s. of outside
money for every pound of its own when
the books closed.
Part of the Sydney assembly plant has
been since destroyed by fire, but other
accommodation has been obtained and
the effect upon turnover will be small.
The loss was covered by insurance, in-
cluding a loss-of-profits policy. Later on
the Morris people (Nuffield organisation)
will be handling their own asserpbly work
in Australia, and the possibility of a glut
in the market cannot be lightly dis-
missed. The locally - made Holden
promises to become a vigorous competitor
nil"" be tUmed ™‘ 1« sufficient
premises at Sydney, °c " CW
bigger trading, those on the r mm
at April 20 will be offered K er
new £1 ords., one for two° ,0 °?
par, and will simultaneouslv ’ at
80,000 £1 bonus shares, for five
will lift paid capital to £680,000 ‘ Afif
exercising rights to the bonus i
the cash offer, and allowing for and
the old snares at 90s. areU"h 60s
net. The return at 60s. 10d is 6 ° d '
so long as the 20 p.c. distribution p,C>
tinues, or 4.9 p.c. on a 15 p'c d!v has"’
Net tangible cover is 345. 7d., excludint
stock reserve. chiding
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
_ „ „ Dividends —r>
Dec., Profit. Pref.* Ord TvTT 101{e ' e ‘
£ ra - Total, serves, serves.f
!941,. .27,909 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 *9412 m
Written off intangibles, £412 Ill’ll
Directors’ fees adjusted. £ifinn 39
1942. .29,964 9 p.c. 9 p c 27 Onn o AA, ti 1,039
1943.. 33;459 9 „ 9 P , 27 900 ) ’ Ul3 ’ 103
Staff fund, £5OOO ’ f 589 113,692
1944.. 81.557 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 I
Staff fund. £2,010 .. f 1,647 115,339
K:BS t p .r S |®
1947.. 0 » 27M0 IJ'fS
1948.. 45 562 9 „ 9 ” 27.’900 njgjg'gj
Share premiums, £17,000
♦ P 4 9/ ■ 5 n 1 ’ 416 , 9 . p ; c - 9 P- c - 31.500 19,916 184*689
Pref. div. subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction
Act, . f Excludes insurance reserve, now £lO 000
The co. is one of Australia’s leading pro-
ducers of hosiery, lingerie and men’s
wear, turned out from a well-equipped
Sydney factory and -from a branch estab-
lishment at Newcastle, which was set up
in 1941 to overcome labor problems, and
which is presently to be enlarged’ and
housed in its own premises. And there
are two small subsidiaries. Lustre (N.Z.)
Ltd., and Siltex Pty., which are giving a
satisfactory account of themselves—plans
for extension of the trans-Tasman business
are also in hand.
Features of the table are the compara-
tive evenness of earnings until war ended
(profits averaged £30,108 for the half-
dozen years to the close of accounts in
1946 as against an average of £29,547
for the six years before that) and the
brisk improvement in the figures since
(average for the last three years being
£45,866), thanks partly to boom condi-
tions and partly to alert management.
Meanwhile the emphasis in demand for
hosiery has largely shifted from pure silk
and rayon, which were the vogue pre-
war, to rayon and now-fashionable nylon.
Moreover, since production is catching up
With demand, and since inflation is steadily
reducing the purchasing-power of wage
and other earnings, the public is be-
coming increasingly price-conscious,
which means that finish, style, quality
and price are becoming, and will continue
to become, dominating factors in sales.
The board’s answer to this transition
has been reorganisation of existing equip-
ment and methods and installation of a
lot of new and expensive plant, which is
the chief earning asset. To help finance
the capital outlay involved in all this and
larger trading, 170,000 new £1 ords.
•were issued during the 13 months to end
December last —40,000 at a premium ot
Bs. 6d. each in Dec., 1948, and 133,333
at par in Dec., 1949. When the books
were ruled off there was still £64,386 to
come on the last issue. Thus paid capital
will be lifted to £483,333 in 83,333 10 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 400,000 ords. The preis.
are subject to the outmoded N. S. Wales
Interest Reduction Act, under which their
div, advances point for point with tne
ords, from a minimum 1\ P- c - to 1 e
full contract rate. An all-round 9 pe-
on issued capital as if now stands wi
call for £43,500, or £2366 ess than
average net earnings over the last tn
years, and there will be a lot more eq p
ment at work. t
Last term wage and. all other
continued their mad spiral, and, tor
first time in the last decade, ove
competition, chiefly British, bega
make itself felt. Still, demand


Ar * You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE Australian
ABBOT
FILTER
. filter
«caasa
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., UMITED,
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
tc ran ahead of
co.’s products which was
advancing proou stfike?
handicappedi oy G ff.
effects of which er g P erg ; ncy .
set by the co. s Rowing a
power umts. £2488)
Sedation and something
for depreciatio result was
for taxation, tn re cord
£5854 strong
£51,416, equal to i 14.
average capital LP •
combined) as g • ’
9.4, 9 - Xh"' 2 las' keptat an
I, 944 * nd he 9 d p C for the tenth
aU-round 9 P-o being
year m succession mm y 5
wanted in t e • neW
Tbe , y and S thare premium
capital an , . , tra
aim tom trade creditors,
washed mostly to reduce the
overdraft (down £102,991),
carry more stocks (up £28,641)
and finance additions to plant
lan £28,065) and freeholds (up
£6500) * -
1947. 1948. 1949.
ord. capital £226,66? £231,041 £335,614
»' B 1 S£»SIS 26,'a00
Overdraft 81,927 236,861 133,870
creditors .. 20,181 36,625 68,287
Tnx nrovision 45,500 54,000
Freeholds.. 119,000 117,500 124,000
plant .. 68,630 103,706 141,771
Debtor, u?.® fso’sfs Siju
cash, etc. .. 550 568 662
shares subsid. i7.2i0 17,210 17,210
The improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£346,-85)
was £108,728. More plant has
yet to be installed at Sydney, and
a 30-acre factory site has been
bought at Adamstown, near
Newcastle, where building is ex-
pected to begin within a few
months.
The market, which expects no
change in the rate of distnbu-
tion, but hopes that shareholders
might yet be asked for more,
prices the ords. at 385., giving a
return of 4.7 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div.
basis. On the same basis the
prefs. at 345. 3d. yield 5.2 p.c.
Net tangible cover is £8 os. 4d.
prefs. and 295. 2d. ords.
Austral N.Z. Mining, Ltd.
This co., only lame duck in
the Austral-Malay stable, is
digging auriferous river gravels
on the Clutha »(N.Z.). After
appreciation of the N.Z. pound,
and consequent fall in the price
of gold to £8 Bs. 6d. an ounce, it
looked as though the undertaker
might have to be called in.
However, the Sept., 1949 de-
predation of sterling which
lifted the N.Z. price’ of the
yellow metal to £l2 4s. 6d an
ounce, has given the co a new
lease of life. For the five months
to Feb. last a working profit of
approximately £11,500 showed
up, and presently a new band of
50 buckets is to be installed,
which should mean
throughput and recoveries
For the year to Sent 24
1949, a loss of L re
corded, compared with a profit
of £23,445 for the previous term
Troubles were the fall in
Price of gold floods-the
hredge was working blind in the
river-bed partini? nf the
bucket-band, boulders and a
narrow face! The machine dna
2,919,000 c.y for 6629nz fin?
gold. Costs at 4 57d a'vard
were 0.71 d. heavier y
Recoveries have'been dkan
pointingly below hnr«
tom th?s. ar ‘“the „dd oc urs
undulating blue-clay-and-
schist bed, and an undue pro-
portion of the original bores
appear to have bottomed in the
recesses. However, the co. has
the right to dredge the river-bed,
which has not been bored, for
some distance ahead, and should
present values continue there is
several years’ profitable work
in sight, subject, of course, to
what happens in connection with
costs and the price of gold.
At Sept. 24 last the mine stood
in the books at £43,353, dredge
£222,140, buildings, etc.,
£10,237 and stores £21,589. To
meet £6823 coming to outsiders
and £55,896 to the parent co.
there was £19,641 in cash,
bullion and book debts. After
sales at 7s. earlier in the year,
sellers now ask 10s. for the f.-p.
pound shares.
Lake View and Star (W.A.),
Australia’s premier gold pro-
ducer, continues to report en-
couraging developments, thus
keeping ore reserves well ahead
of extraction. For the three
months to Jan. 3 last 4872 ft. of
driving, etc., was completed, of
which 1817 ft. was in ore averag-
ing s.ldwt. over a width of 56in.
Co. is drawing about two-thirds
of its ore from the western group
of leases and the balance from
the Lake View and Associated
sector. For the year to June 30
last 551,191 tons ore were treated
for an average return of 51s. 7d.
a ton. Costs per ton were: stop-
ing 20s. 3d., development 3s. 6d.,
treatment, transport, etc., 10s. sd.
and general exes. Is. lOd.; a
total of 365., leaving a working
profit of 15s. 7d. The price of
gold in Australia has been lifted
since from £lO 15s. 3d, to
£l5 9s. lOd. an ounce, but the
continued rise in costs has
gobbled much of the gain. At
June 30, 1949, measured ore
reserves were put at 4,096,400
tons, averaging 4.B6dwt.
Cental Norseman Gold Corp.,
Norseman (W.A.), which re-
cently took an option over the
Mount, near Widgiemooltha,
some 56 miles from Norseman,
and is stepping up plant capacity
from 130,000 tons to 200,000
tons p.a., has now applied for
11 leases about three miles north
of the Princess Royal, in which
two new ore-bodies were recently
discovered. There is, however,
some doubt as to whether the 11
leases are not already subject to
temporary reservation on
account of an application by
Norseman Gold Mines, N.L.
Altogether 27 leases, covering
about 650 acres, have been
pegged north of the Princess
Royal during the last few weeks.
* * * *
Coolgardie Brilliant N.L.
(W.A.) still fails to sparkle.
After working and abandoning
a number of auriferous shows in
the West during the last few
years, co. bought the Phar Lap
lease at Meekatharra for £2500
early in 1948. But this, too, has
proved a dud, the 3074 tons ore
extracted yielding only 800 oz.
byllion. Loss for the year to
July 31, 1949, was £3917, mak-
ing total loss for the last two
years £BOl4, When the books
closed there was £lB5l coming to
outsiders and £6Ol in cash and
debtors’ balances to meet it.
Plant, in at £930, is said to be
worth £l7OO.
* * ♦ ♦
Two important developments
have occurred at A 1 Consoli-
dated, Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.).
On the Victory reef, which has
yielded a lot of wealth in the
past, a winze in payable values
below No. 15 level has inter-
sected a new dyke bulge about
50ft. east of the main dyke. On
No. 17 level a downward bore
cut a 7ft. formation, and the
core assayed 4oz. 18dwt. per ton
over the full width. Develop-
ments in this section of the mine
will be awaited with interest.
For the year to end Dec. last,
co. crushed 12,060 tons for
6173 oz. gold. On a capital of
£36,000 co. has paid divs.
totalling £711,000 ; the last 2s. a
share went out in Feb., 1949.
CITY ELECTRIC LIGHT
COMPANY LIMITED
[Incorporated in queensland]
ADDRESS BY CHAIRMAN (MR. J. H. HOLMES)
To the SHAREHOLDER OF CITY ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY
LIMITED, at the Fifty-fourth Ordinary General Meeting of the
Company held at the Registered Office of the Company, 156-166
Boundary Street, Brisbane, on 31st March, 1950.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I now have the honour of presenting to you at
this the Fifty-fourth Ordinary General Meeting of
the Company, the Report of your Directors and the
Profit and Loss Account and Balance Sheet fpr the
year ended 31st January, 1950. In all the circum-
stances they can be regarded as reasonably satisfactory.
THE YEAR’S RESULTS
During the year we had a record expenditure
on development. We had record sales of electricity
and record production efficiencies, but we did not,
I am sorry to say, have a record return on our capital
investment.
Our net profits for the year were less by £168,504
than the profits we are entitled to earn under the
formula provided in our Franchise Agreement. The
reasons for this have been explained in the Directors’
Report, and need not be repeated. A price increase
is now effective, and I trust that, with the continued
expansion of the Company’s business, I shall be able
to report to you in due course that, in addition to
meeting all necessary provisions from revenue, we
shall have been able to restore to the Reserve Fund
the amount withdrawn for the equalisation of
dividends. v
COAL
An important report on Queensland’s coal resources
was presented to the Queensland Government during
the year by Powell Duffryn Technical Services Ltd.
The West Moreton field bulks largely in that report
which forcibly stresses the need for prompt and drastic
action to reorganise coal production to meet the
requirements of South Eastern Queensland. The
report by no means over-estimates the increasing
demand for coal from the West Moreton field. It is
abundantly clear that the field, as at present organised,
will be quite unable to supply the quantities of coal
required over the next ten years. Powell Duffryn
Technical Services Ltd. have outlined in their report
tentative plans for increased production. Their plans
are and can only be tentative. It is very probable
that as their investigation proceeds, these tentative
plans will have to be modified. Nevertheless, the
inescapable fact is that an early and drastic re-
organisation of coal production in the West Moreton
field must be effected.
Already, we have been forced to augment West
Moreton supplies from Callide. Whilst the position
was accentuated by the serious industrial dispute in
the middle of the year, this was by no means the sole
cause. Approximately 13% of our coal consumed
during the year came from outside the West Moreton
field. If we had obtained our coal at the same price
as in the previous year, even after allowing for a
reduction in consumption due to the slightly better
quality of Callide coal, we would have paid approxi-
mately £170,000 less for our coal. Our reserves
include a fairly heavy proportion of the high-priced
Callide coal. We are still obtaining coal from this
source so that no relief from coal costs can be
expected in the coming year. The figures which I
have quoted will indicate how important it is that a
vastly increased quantity of coal be produced from
the West Moreton field at a reasonable price and of
a better and more uniform quality. Unless this is
done, consumers of electricity in South Eastesn
Queensland, quite - unnecessarily, will have to pay
hundreds of pounds in higher prices for electricity.
UNDER PRODUCTION
The difficulty which we experienced with coal was
only one of the difficulties which we experienced
during the year. The lag in coal production is omy
one facet of the general under-production of Australian
industry. Our contract for the building °f tbe brst
section of the new Power House, Buhmba B, was
negotiated some 19 months, ago. Notwithstanding
that we had given prior advice of our requirements,
our Australian steel deliveries were not augmented
for this purpose, so that we are obliged to look
overseas for practically the whole of the steel require-
ments. Our orders to plant manufacturers were placed
some 3 to 3i years ago. Some of these, too have
not received their requirements for steel plate and
sections and we have had to authorise the imporla
£ ”(’ steel for these contracts. This importation
of steel is going to add many thousands of pounds
to the cost of construction of Buhmba B, par-
ticularly as the Australian pound is grossly under-
valued "in relation to sterling and other currency
All these increased costs must be reflected in
future price of electricity Unless Buhmba B is
operating during the winter of 1 952 ~ p a . tern
consistent rationing of electricity m South Eastern
Oneensland will be inevitable. One would nave
thmS therefore, that it would have been possible
to obtain from Australian sources the steel we require.
Unfortunately, Australian industry has been prevented
is .he
Of Inflated* 1 Tncre'asffig followed by
wage increases nearly as fast, everyone has money m
.• “ nnckpts Our primary producers are realising
high’’pricefr—ev^n’dangerously” high prto-te -
_;Li and other primary products for sale abroad.
Nevertheless, we are not producing enough goo s
mppt ordinary everyday consumers requirements,
let Sc Sough goods to build and equip homes for
the people “nd the factories power
boM-P needed AlaS anj
So°d£ more o’ur standS of living must fa 1.
Satic°pSSsSo-Sled-prima , Jily ht'the“common-
rnt h and'« SsSS? SifiPS Ma-
mentary representatives in recognising the e p
faCtS " THE COMMUNISTS
The ordinary man, too, has for a long time Past
SS££ ’indirectly
Communist plan which is, unfortunately, sometimes
mSstf d SSder-p h rodSon IC il m: brought about
principally by two means-the one, irritation strikes
deliberately planned to reduce production, and the
other, a deliberate policy of “go slow” equally planned
to reduce production. This plot is directly aimed
against the Australian people. Every strike and
every hold-up in industry is destroying the peoples’
savings and their purchasing power, for instance,
the strike in the middle of the year cost the people
in South East Queensland in higher electricity charges
alone, nearly £200,000.
THE CURE
There is only one cure—to take drastic action to
destroy the plot by punishing and, where necessary,
deporting or segregating all those who by their
actions are proving themselves traitors to this country.
Our Parliamentary representatives will naturally
hesitate to take action sufficiently drastic to rid us
of this menace unless we, the people of Australia,
demand it. It is therefore up to everyone of us by
every means at our command to indicate to our
Parliamentary representatives that we will back them
in every step they take to give effect to such a policy.
The alternative will be the gradual weakening of
law and order and of the will of the people to
resist, to the point when these traitors will try to
seize power to subject us to the same slavery, under
the new Russian Empire, as is now experienced by
Eastern Germany, Poland and Czechoslovakia. These
words are strong, but no stronger than are needed.
I am sure that- I voice the opinion of the vast
majority of Australians.
PROGRESS OF COMPANY
The progress of our distribution system was rather
better than in the previous year, but is still hampered
by shortages of material and labour.
This year we spent on capital expansion £1,116,459.
Of this, over one-half was spent on the transmission
and distribution system and other capital works out-
side Brisbane. You can see from these figures how
great a factor this Company’s Undertaking is in the
development of South Eastern Queensland and how
faithfully we have carried and are carrying out our
agreement with the Government of Queensland to
provide a supply of electricity to the countryside.
We believe that we are giving to our consumers a
service second to none in Australia. We are, however,
always mindful of how it can be improved.
For the last few years, we have been constructing
transmission lines designed to carry electricity at
110.000 volts. These lines were temporarily energised
at 33,000 volts. Recently, we have converted to
110.000 volts the line extending from the generating
station at Buliipba to the Company’s sub-station at
Postman’s Ridge beyond Helidon. This voltage is
the highest in use in Queensland. Its initial line
performance is satisfactory and has effected a big
improvement in transmission efficiency to the country-
■ side beyond Ipswich to Toowoomba. During the
next few years, this 110,000 volt network will be
completed to augment our supply north and south
as well as west from the generating station.
We have also now placed orders for the installation
of what we believe will be the most modern wireless
inter-communication system of its kind in Australia.
This will enable the most efficient use of the Com-
pany’s mobile service and will enable any interruptions
to be dealt with with the utmost speed and efficiency.
The reduction in our net profit during the year was
only a temporary- and minor set-back due to special
factors which are not likely to be repeated. The
Company is continuing to expand with great rapidity,
and the Queensland Government and the people or
Queensland appreciate the necessity for the continual
expansion of electrical supply. 1 have every confidence
in the progress of Queensland, and I have no doubl
that it is only on the threshold of its development.
I should like, here, to express my appreciation to
the Government of Queensland, to the Electricity
Commission and the many officers of the public
service to whom we are indebted for their encourage-
ment and assistance.
NEW CAPITAL
Delivery times for material are still uncertain. 1
cannot therefore indicate exactly when shareholders
will be given their next opportunity of subscribing
capital to finance the Company’s very large programme
of expansion. However, it is probable that our
financial requirements for the rest of this calendar
year will be met from the issuing of further debenture
stock and that a new share issue will be made about
the end of this year or early next year.
RETAIL TRADING
Under our franchise agreement we undertook to
provide a retail trading department for the sale and
hire of electrical appliances. The war conditions pre-
vented the early establishment of this trading depart-
ment We have now appointed as our Sales Manager,
Mr. D. J. Lambert and plans for the commencement
of trading and hire purchase in electrical apparatus
.are well in train. We will be commencing trading
"in the next few months.
OUR EMPLOYEES
I am pleased to tell you that the Company’s super-
annuation scheme has been we 1 received by the
Company’s employees. 657 employees have joined,
and ?he Scheme is functioning smoothly We liave
not so far, allotted to the fund any of the 100,000
shares which the shareholders reserved for this purpose
last year. The funds of the superannuation scheme
were fully employed in taking up and paying for the
Ss quota of the last issue of shares However
t anHdmte that some of these 100,OOp shares will be
allotted to the Trustees of the fund in the next few
m The'growth of the Company’s activities Placed
a heavy strain on its staff and employees, and I am
deeolv Vateful to them for their loyal and efficient
seS. It is perhaps unfair to single out any section
oJ;°k s£-a
construction programme.


33o’$4ikimm
I like the EXTRA flavour
fg
THE SECRET’S IN
THE 333't BUEND.
EXPRESS 333
iMM
ly/lARINE ENGINEERS AND EJNGINE
iVI DRIVERS’ EXAMINATIONS.
To those interested in Engineering and
desirous of passing examinations for ad-
vancement, write for prospectus regarding
Engineering Correspondence Courses,
Tuition for Engineers and Engine Drivers’
Examinations, also Special Courses for
Engineer Apprentices.
GEO. W. MARTIN,
M.1.E.5., M.1.N.A., M.I.Mar.E.,
M.I. Mech.E., M.N.Z.1.E., F.R.S.A.
276 Princes Street, Dunedin, 0.1.
P.O. Box 904 NEW ZEALAND.
Have you looked over
your will lately?
IF you have not revised your Will to meet
to-day’s conditions, the consequences may
be serious for someone who depends on
you. Your responsibility to that someone
is too important to justify delaying until
some “to-morrow” that may never come.
Why not have a con-
fidential talk with one
of our Senior Officers
on the subject of the
appointment of the
Company as your
Executor and Trustee
—alone or jointly with
a relative or friend.
He will help you to
provide for the efficient
and economical settle-
ment of your Estate,
also for its efficient
management thereafter.
The final step of having
your Solicitor re-draw
your Will, should then
be a simple matter.
If you prefer, send
first, for a copy of the
booklet “Your Execu-
tor and Trusteelt
explains the services
offered by the Company
—and the charges.
%
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.
(Chairman) :
B. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS!
Hon. j. P., ABBOTT;
D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. O. ARMYTAGE, Manager
•
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68,000,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
BXBCUTOB AND TRUSTEE, AGENT
ATTOBNBT FOB ABSENTEES & OTHEBS, ADM IN IS J.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY^
OFFICES AT WAGGA JTAGGA, TAMWORTH a
Business Rollery Etc.
The Price of Gold
In Australia at present the
price of gold is £l5 10s. an
ounce. Before the war (in
January, 1939) it was £9 3s. 6d.
Australian per fine ounce.
With the pound sterling pegged
at $4.03 after war began the
British price should have be-
come about £8 13s. 6d. sterling
and the Australian price about
£AIO 16s. 4d. However, the
Bank of England fixed the
British price at £8 Bs. sterling
an ounce, and the Australian
price became £lO 13s. 3d., which,
to the producer, was subject to
a tax of 16s. an ounce.
There were a number of
anomalies in the price of gold
during the war, all due to Gov-
ernment “pegging,” taxation
and/or freight and insurance
charges; but the point intended
to be established here is the de-
preciation in paper currencies,
compared with gold coinage,
that has occurred in every
country since the 1920’5.
In 1925 Britain, after a period
of currency depreciation, re-
turned to the gold standard on
the basis of £4 ss. per fine ounce.
In other words, in spite of all the
inflation that had occurred be-
tween 1914 and the end of the
post-war boom, Britain thought
it could bring the price of gold
—and with it, to a large extent,
the general price-level—to a pre-
-1914 basis. Britain was forced
off the gold standard in 1931 ;
the United States raised the price
of gold to $35 an ounce in
1934, and the price of the metal
has been rising in erratic move-
ments, from various causes
(largely war and Socialism) ever
since.
Today in Australia the price
of gold is nearly four times the
price it was in 1914. The cost-
of-living index is about two and
a half times the 1914 figure;
money wages are well over three
times the rate paid 36 years ago.
Wool has risen at a greater rate
than gold since World War I
began; most of the increase,
however, has been since the be-
ginning of War 11. Build-
ing materials have risen faster
than the price of gold, and base
metals have just about kept in
step with the rise in the yellow
metal.
Some of the increase in prices
and costs now seen in Australia
is directly a result of the de-
valuation of sterling (which
meant a higher price for gold) in
September last year. There is
a strong current of controversy
at present as to whether we
should or shouldn’t come closer
to sterling with our currency,
thus reducing, the value of gold
and prices for many export com-
modities, including wool, wheat
and base metals, in terms of
Australian currency. There is,
on the other hand, talk overseas
of a further devaluation of
sterling and, perhaps, a devalua-
tion of the dollar. Any devalua-
tion of sterling or the dollar
would undoubtedly tend to in-
crease prices generally in Aus-
tralia unless action were taken in
our exchange rate to offset such
a move.
Last week the New York
“Journal of Commerce” reported
that the Soviet was dumping
gold on the world exchanges
with the political purpose of
“creating unsettlement and.
undermining confidence.” The
journal added that Russia had
started an export drive to force
the United States price of gold
below $35 an ounce, and that
there was already $2OO million-
worth of gold now in transit to
world markets. The paper ex-
i pressed the opinion that this
amount represented only a
fraction of “the immense Russian
gold reserve, but is enough to
create repercussions of a price
and political nature,”
The “Journal of Commerce”
has for a long time had
only a mixed respect for gold as
an international money medium.
In 1943, when another U.S.
commentator referred to lend-
lease as representing “the
prosaic end to something that
has been second only to love in
the hunger of the human race ;
we don’t need gold now except
for filling teeth,” the “Journal
of Commerce” said; “It is
doubtful whether the interests of
the goldmining companies can
assure that gold can long retain
its international monetary role,
even as a cloak for making more
palatable to other nations the
inevitable dominant role the
dollar will play in international
finance.”
But during and since the last
war, in the parts of the world
where government has been
most unstable, there is no ques-
tion that gold has been much
more in demand than U.S. paper
dollars; and though the gold
premium over dollars is not as
great as it was, premium there
still is in China and the Arab
countries.
The answer to many questions
hangs on the future price of
gold. Russia will have to throw
vast quantities of the yellow
metal on the world’s markets if
it is to cause any lasting drop in
the price. In any case there
seems to be little likelihood of
gold being dethroned so long as
democracy and free enterprise
exist in Western countries; that
is so notwithstanding Lord
Keynes’s description, in 1944, of
the gold standard as a “bar-
barous relic.” But upon the
future price of gold will
depend the future price of
so many other things. It is true
that the price of wool did not
keep step with the rising price of
gold during the 1930’s ; but that
was a period of high production
and comparatively low consump-
tion of many commodities. To-
day there is underproduction of
most raw materials, and there is
reason to believe that there will
be some relationship between the
increased price of gold and the
price of other commodities when
supply eventually creeps up to-
wards demand.
One thing seems certain, and
it is that there is unlikely to be
any attempt to bring the price of
gold back to its pre-war level of
£8 Bs. sterling per fine ounce.
The present Australian figure
may represent the upward limit
to the price of the metal in our
own currency, but it remains to
be seen what happens to the
United States price. Com-
modity prices in the U.S. have
passed their peak, and unem-
ployment is growing. In any
case, once world supply and
demand come more into line
with each other, it is unlikely
that the United States will be
able or willing to carry on with
gold at a pre-war standard of
value.
The strong pre-Easter tone in
Australian sharemarkets was
again in evidence when Stock
Exchanges reopened last week.
B.H.P. fully-paids led the way
in an advance to 565., with the
contribs. firm at 455. The up-
ward trend was general: banks,
pastorals, breweries, shipping
and coal, as well as miscellaneous
industrials dike A.C.1., Cald-
well's Wines, C.S.R., Drug
Houses, Fairymead Sugar,
Electro. Zinc, Melbourne
“Herald,” Matthews Thompson,
Millaquin, Mcllraths, Mauri
Bros., Taubman’s and Wool-
worths, all made headway.
Activity in Sydney overshadowed
that in Melbourne; and generally
the Sydney market was stronger ;
it has held the initiative in move-
ments in B.H.P. shares for some
time. Front-line stocks on Aus-
tralian ’Changes are being
bought at present to give a very
low yield ; that from C.S.R. is
2.4 p.c,, from B.H.P. 3 p.c., Bank
of N.S.W. 3.3 p.c.. Tooth 3.3 p.c.,
Queensland Insurance 2.2 p.c.,
British Tobacco 3.3 p.c. and
Burns Philp 2.8 p.c. The share-
market strength is based on ex-
pectations of things to come.
Benefits to shareholders in the
majority of public companies
have not kept pace with infla-
tion, or anything like it, since
war began.
* * * *
Investors attracted by profits
being earned at present by distri-
bution of English cars should
think twice before buying shares
in the cos., the scrip sometimes
being four or five times par
value. In some cases last year’s
profit has been nearly as much
as paid capital; but it would
need dividends equal to 100 p.c.
each year for five years for in-
vestors paying £5 for a £1 share
to get their money back. The
market for cars in Australia may
change from a sellers’ to a
buyers’ within 12 months. Then
distributors’ profits may shrink
suddenly.
* * * ♦
Though the co. should benefit
later on by new plant and factory
buildings already provided for
by capital issued, the trading
outlook of Bradford Cotton
Mills isn’t as clear as it was.
Competition from British, Con-
tinental and Asiatic weavers is
likely to grow keener before
long. Then there is the possi-
bility of an eventual exchange
adjustment. The co. is very well
set-up but produc-
tion per man-hour in the industry
isn’t as good as it might be. The
management can be relied r<n +
.°°,K “I'" interests
to the best of its ability S*
ra^ y o^o h a i6hly '
on a 10 p.c. div. basis is £4 o s
per cent. H ys-
* * * *
n Th f shares i n the
Courtaulds Australian offshoot
are freely available at ss. 8 d °
thereabouts. Yet comparativdy
few shares were available to the
general public at the flotation
Ip view of the strong industrial
backing behind the venture these
shares should be satisfactory as
a'long-term (several years) in
vestment.
* * * *
to^TH Bat c e 7 dS - haVeri »
to 28s 3d. in Sydney. Last div
was 1\ p.c. The co. has a long
list of excellent agencies of an
engineering nature, some rente
senting dollar lines. The divi-
dend seems likely to improve
over the next few years, and
present yield is 5.3 p.c.
* * * *
Drug cos. in Maoriland have
grown shy of publicity since they
began to coin money out of
“social-security” free medicine
paid for by N.Z. taxpayers’
which has boosted sales and
leaves no bad debts. It’s now a
decade since the medicine spree
began on a small scale, and for
four years the tax cost has been
well up into seven figures,
lumped with other items in
medical benefits which top £8
million toefay and are still on the
rise. Kempthorne, Prosser and
Co.’s N.Z. Drug Co. has romped
ahead in the post-war years and
cleared £110,726 from operations
in the latest term (to Jan. 31),
against £52,593 five years ago.
There’s a fat margin over 8 p.c.
div. needs, with a \\ p.c. bonus
added in 1947 and this year. Re-
serves have snowballed to
£400,000, nearly doubled since
the war, so the co.’s purse is well
lined to carry out expansion
plans.


m
mm
I’m proud
of my
Aladdin home
Aladdin make* city comfort*
easily available for country
homes. Decide now to
"Aladdin-ise" your home with
these efficient, easy-to-use
Aladdin products.
GOOD
LIGHTING
Immediate,
bright,
steady 75
c.p. light without
pumping. No
smoke or fumes!
Aladdin Lamps
add beauty as
well as comfort —
and are the
simplest of all
lamps to operate.
Have an Aladdin
non-pressure
kerosene mantle lamp In every
room full range is now
available.
GOOD COOKING
f
gf
All the convenience
of a gas or electric
stove! The Aladdin
pressure - kerosene
elevated oven
range has 5 burners, adjustable
to any heat required. Ideal for
pressure cooking. Oven cooks
to perfection. Simple and safe
to operate.
a
ST*
&
PORTABLE 2-BURNER
For home or general outdoor use,
this pressure-kerosene stove gives
ready Heat where it's needed.
Flame is adjustable to any heat;
metal carrying case (optional)
serves as windshield for outdoor
cooking.
STORMPROOF
LANTERN
Floods a large
area with brilliant
light. 300 candle
power pressure-
kerosene lantern
is built for years
of rugged service.
Adjustable down
Slde reflectors available.
Aladdin dls-
COBflfrw r clf!es ‘ suburbs and
* t° Wns throughout
CowmonweofHi-
the
gf
it
kerosene appliances
SS!S" INDUSTRIES Pty.ltd
BOJR ** ST.. WATERLOO N S.W.
63/141.12
Public Notice.
WOULD WILLIAM JAMES BELL, for-
merly of Auckland, New Zealand, and
widower of ANNIE BELL, who died at
Botorua, New Zealand, on 10th October,
1949, or any person knowing his present
whereabouts, please communicate with the
DISTRICT MANAGER, Public Trust
Office, Rotorua.
vm
m
m'v<
1
i'S
mi-
ll
i"
-Si
4
ft
It*
r
aaSS
i-‘ .
, fr ir,
nm
nms,
turn
mA
a\\W
m
m
T!V n great pastoral land like
Australia, the marketing of
hides and skins and the manu-
facturing of goods produced from
them is Important.
A considerable quantity of hides
and skins is exported. In 1948/49
these exports were valued at
£12.12 million, of which the largest
group (over £7 million) was sheep-
skins sent principally to the
U.S.A. and France. Exports of
rabbitskins (worth over £3 mil-
lion) nearly all went to the U.S.A.
Other types of skins also found a
market overseas. In Australia,
some 6,000 people are employed
in the treatment of the various
types of hides and skins, whilst
many thousands more are en-
gaged in the production of the
innumerable commodities manu-
factured from hides and skins.
In this category are footwear,
felt hats, furs, gloves, upholstery,
and a wide range of other
articles.
The development of this industry
has been assisted by the complete
banking service provided by the
Bank of New South Wales
serving Australia for over 130
years.
■j^W/ Consult and use
IBANK OF ■
NEW SOUTH WALES
( IXrORPORATEIt IN NKW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED 1,1 ABILITY).
FIR ST BANK IN AUSTR A LI A Jjs
--a
r
S--HH
Ss'
A5007D
FOR
gf
RHEUMATISM. ARTHRITIS,
SCIATICA, FIBROSITIS, GOUT,
LUMBAGO, JOINT & MUSCULAR
PAINS arising from any condition
Cluny’s is a prescribed scientific formula which, taken as
directed, quickly strikes at the cause of your pain and
exhaustion, it restores proper functioning of the kidneys
and immediately eases the agonising pain and tones up
the whole nervous system—get back to good health and
well being with
g
CM.16A.8
cluny McPherson
MIXTURE
lx
FAMED THESE 30 YEARS
m
to
j
Every Rolls lighter is precision built for
unfailing service. Fully automatic, with
built-in windguard, spare flint recess.
Five year guarantee. Chrome, 39/6.
Distributed by WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED
• • •
it lights eve rtf time
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
The turnstile, it seems, con-
tinues to be one of the most
overworked appliances in the
contemporary scene. Sociologists
will no doubt decide whether the
teeming attendances at sporting
events and popular exhibitions
are due to mere curiosity, general
restlessness, the decline in home
life, the “redistribution of per-
sonal incomes” or contagious
hedonism. Enough to say here
that the crowds are growing
bigger and bigger, more clamor-
ous and a heavy strain on the
depleted police force, both
national and metropolitan. The
demand for tickets for the Asso-
ciation football Cup Ties has
been so heavy that all-night
queues are now accepted as a
natural condition.
The Vale of Health on Hamp-
stead Heath attracted close on
100,000 people for a quite re-
markable innovation two
sessions of ski-jumping, with
skiers and snow imported from
Norway and, despite hard-
fought opposition from local
nature-lovers and ornithologists,
the event will probably be re-
peated every year.
Crowds of people, rather less
exhilarated and apt to be wistful
and incredulous, have flocked as
usual to the Ideal Home exhibi-
tion at Olympia. With all re-
spect to the “Daily Mail” for its
admirable organisation, the ex-
hibition is yet another reminder
of the age we are living in.
Elegant landscape gardens, in-
genious but unessential gadgets,
a limitless variety of wrought-
iron knick-knacks, arty-crafty
lampshades, Olde Worlde
Wonderes and expensive furniture,
are poor compensation for not
having four solid walls and a
roof. That’s the main domestic
problem of Mr. and Mrs. John
Briton, and there’s no solution
in sight.
The Boat Race is another event
that draws bigger crowds every
year. The journey from Hyde
Park Corner to Hammersmith
Bridge normally takes under half
an hour by bus. On Boat Race
morning it took two and a half
hours.
The complaint that more and
more people prefer to watch
sport rather than take part in it
is certainly not true of the Head
of the River race, which is rowed
over the Boat Race course in
the reverse direction on the ebb-
ing tide. Twenty-four years
after its foundation by the re-
doubtable Steve Fairbairn there
were 213 entries, including crews
from Dublin and Durham.
Blacks and Whites
No incident in recent years has
provoked more diverse and
anxious comment than the
Seretse Khama affair. Agree-
ment approaches unanimity over
one aspect only, which is that
the Government action has been
inept and bungling. The, least
that can be said is that good
statesmanship might—and should
—have averted a sensation that
grew at once into an uproar
which gives no sign of being
quelled.
Whether or not Seretse was.
tricked into coming back to this
country, whether he is, or is not,
fit to rule over his tribe, what
action the Government should
now take —all these problems,
however relevant, are mere jets
of flame by comparison with the
explosions that they have fired.
It would be dishonest not to
face the two main issues, how-
ever delicate they may be, as
they appear to Britons. The
first, which the reticence that
applies to family connections
has forced into the national sub-
conscious, is the. growing uneasi-
ness over the Malan Govern-
ment’s policy of racial discrimi-
nation.
The second issue is at once
simple and complicated: simple
because it merely hangs upon
the relationship between black
and white, and complicated be-
cause of the ramifications of that
problem. Here is a nation which
believes in its democracy, rule
of law, fair play, solicitation for
the underdog, and which is in-
herently proud of its Empire,
whose citizens enjoy in common
the protection of being British
subjects. So far, so good. But
what about mixed marriages?
There’s the rub.
Ruth Khama, formerly a
Netting Hill secretary, is a
normal English girl whose reli-
gious education taught her that,
in the sight of God, all men are
equal. Had her husband been
a man of no international signi-
ficance it would have been no-
boy’s business —at any rate, no-
body outside the families con-
cerned. That he was Seretse
Khama we are all now painfully
aware.
Sherriff at Play
Even after allowing for a loud,
envious groan among most
writing men, R. C. Sherriff’s re-
fusal of a $28,000 contract to
write a film-script is understand-
able enough. He didn’t at first
turn it down outright, but
approached the Government and
offered to work for nothing if
the proceeds could be devoted to
his hobby, archaeology, which
sadly lacks funds. The Inland
Revenue, with native wariness
and fearful of precedents, could
not accept. So, as the tax-
collector would take a bite so
big that there wouldn’t be much
over, Sherriff declined the offer,
leaving himself free to cultivate
his garden, uncover ancient sites
and write when he feels like it.
A happy circumstance for him-
self, no doubt, but is it a healthy
state of affairs when sought-after
creative artists are deterred by
penal taxation from adding to
their works and Britain’s
dollars?
“Home at Seven” (Wyndham’s
theatre) suggests that R. C.
Sherriff’s work in adapting
Somerset Maugham’s short
stories for the films “Quartet”
and “Trio” has enhanced his
deftness in dramatic construc-
tion. The master, we all know’,
can never understand why sheer
competence is derided as being
unliterary. By his cohesive plots,
close attention to details of
characterisation and background,
Sherriff appears to uphold that
view,
A bank accountant (Ralph
Richardson) returns to his home
in the south-eastern suburbs.after
a 24-hour lapse of memory and
is unable to account for his
movements. It emerges that he
has been mildly deceiving his
wife (Marian Spencer), that a
large sum of money is missing
from the social club of which he
is treasurer, that a man has been
murdered and that he —poor
soul —is in it up to his neck.
This tremendous first act has
been compared to “Shall We
Join the Ladies?” which Barrie
was unable to resolve. Sherriff
shows that he is not to be beaten,
and, if keeping the audience in
suspended interest until all ends
well is any criterion, his success
is proved. It is true that the
actors help him, particularly in
the ingeniously padded second
act. Cyril Raymond, as the doctor
with leisure enough to be con-
fidant and friend-in-need, sus-
tains the play during its shakiest
sequences and is well aided by
Philip Stainton as the tweedy,
blustering ex-Army type who is
also cock of suburbia. The
part is not the best that Ralph
Richardson has had; although
—indeed, because —he devotes
his high talent with superb re-
straint to be Everyman, he is
quite ordinary and quite unre-
markable.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
The opening concert of the celebrity
season at the Town Hall had Alfredo
Campoli as soloist with the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra. The violinist’s wife
had silver foxes as adjunct to her short
black frock. Mrs. Con Charlton’s gown
was pastel-blue, her fur black fox. The
Bernard Heinze lady, in beige lace, sat
with Mrs. Arthur Joyce, whose choice
was aqua-blue. Mrs. Sidney Baillieu
Myer’s beige crepe romaine gown had a
waterfall drapery, and was faced with
matching satin on the skirt.
Alfredo Campoli was guest-of-honor
at a small party given at the
Town Hall by Lord Mayor J. S. Disney
and his wife. Mrs. Disney’s slim frock
of black crepe, which had affloating panel,
had as accessories a mink stole and
matching muff. Mrs. Campoli topped her
grey tailored suit with a black felt side-
swept hat. Mrs. Con Charlton wore a
black ensemble and a black hat which
had black - and - white - striped ribbon
trimming. Mrs. Donald Cochrane (the
former Margaret Schofield, who will be
the violinist’s accompanist) wore an olive-
green velvet cap with her scarlet suit.
Vera Flowe’s coat was of camel-hair, her
black-feather-plumed hat beige.
Three hostesses—Mesdames David
Bodycomb, R. J. Maclellan and S. S.
Monks —combined to give a large dance
for their. respective sons, David, Peter
and John, at Mrs. Maclellan’s Toorak
home. Three hundred guests danced in
a ballroom beautifully decorated with
autumn roses and maple foliage. Supper
was served in a pale-green silk-lined
marquee in the garden. A large quince-
tree sparkling with fairy lights among its
fruits was centred in the marquee. Mrs.
Bodycomb’s off-the-shoulder gown of
blue-grey taffeta featured a pearl-and-
crystal-bead-embroidered bodice. Mrs.
Maclellan’s gown was of water-lily-green
satin. Mrs. Monks’s green brocades had
a wide bertha collar of Brussels lace.
Pretty girls who were at the dance in-
cluded Valerie McLoughlin in a strapless
gown; Jan Caldwell, hers § strikingly
striped in black, and Margaret Ayling,
whose black gown had a halter neckline.
The three guests-of-honor were at Mel-
bourne Grammar together.
Last bon voyage party for the Norman
Lynchs before they left for England was
given by Mr. and Mrs. Ray Joseph at
their home on Brighton-road. Mixed
gladioli and hydrangeas decorated the
reception-rooms, and on the buffet
dinner-table was a floral replica of the
Stratheden, in which the guests-of-honor
travelled. Mrs. Joseph received her
guests in a short evening gown of royal-
blue French satin with an overdress of
matching Chantilly lace. Mrs, Lynch
wore three-toned muted-blue taffetas and
a matching Eton jacket. Mrs. Frank
Marland’s frock was of midnight-blue
satin with a trail of pastel roses down
one side of the skirt. Mrs. H. Silk’s
gown of white crepe was a Hattie
Carnegi£ model. Vera Pritchard’s silver-
grey lace ballerina frock was teamed with
an Eton jacket in steel-grey faille. Mrs.
Isobel Clayton covered old-gold satin with
fine black lace. The rust-toned taffeta
frock worn by Mfs. W. McDermott was
ballerina in style and had a portrait neck-
line. Daphne Kaufman wore the new silk
surah in her jacket and slim skirt in ton-
ings of midnight-blue. A demure little
brown angora jacket covered the halter
neckline of Mrs. Peter Lynch’s green shot-
satin frock. Thelma Whitehouse’s mist-
lue moire taffetas were embellished with
silver bead and sequin trimming. A bib
necklace of sapphires and pearls set off
Mrs. Reg Vale’s simple black crepe frock.
- A * tbe Incheon given at Myer’s
101I 01 bheila Scottar, who has just returned
trom a fashion-buying trip abroad, the
guest-of-honor wore a black barathea-
S Cd SU lt Created b y Wallace of
London Her Jacques Path vagabond
and “I b *a Ck P felt had a bashed-in crown
couturierQ dC h face * amin S brim. Italian
to lead rti l h ?. said ’ Were making a bid
were f f hl ? n world - Their materials
90 npr love ly> and Dior had used
collection 611 Sf ! an materials m his last
evpnfnL Styles for cocktail and
evening wear in Italy were outstanding.
andlUr? 0 ! the Ar madale home of Mr.
„ i rs ; en Buxton, was the venue for
Tomrnv fe° n Pa , rty throWn for the
kiT ields , cou Pl e > and also to make
knpwn plans for a gala night at the
mod b hen “Where’s Charley” will be
produced This will be in aid of the
British Memorial Fund, and a large
committee is working for the success of
ffie venture. Mrs. lan Miller, Jane Casey,
Elaine Robinson and Anne Mclntyre
were appointed ticket-secretaries, Mes-
dames Hugh Syme, E. Alcock and G. R.
Nicholas are in charge of the flower-stall,
which will be in the foyer of the theatre,
and Elizabeth Jones and Alison Lyons
have charge of programmes. Mrs.
Buxton hostessed in a ballerina frock of
dove-grey chiffon and a matching hat of
satin trimmed with a drooping ostrich-
feather. Mrs. Fields’s rust-toned Italian
brocades were black-spotted. Carolyn
Buxton was in deep-blue velvet, her sister
Beverley in black crepe. Mrs. A.
Isaacson, who is organiser of the British
Memorial Fund, had a matching felt hat
for her dove-grey angora jacket-suit.
There is a continental flavor about
No. 1 Swanston-street, this city’s newest
restaurant. Its walls of green and red are
in the baroque fashion, set off with heavy
gold-framed mirrors. Dante Triaca is the
host; and a good one he proved when he
entertained stars of the Ice Follie, the
French and Swiss Consuls and members
of , the Press at luncheon. The chef and
his aides turned out superb examples of
the culinary art. Great Britain was repre-
sented by two pretty girls, Marion Davies,
whose American Beauty corduroy-
velvet suit set off her- blonde color-
ing (she is the star of the show), and
Barbara Howe, ballet-mistress, whose
suit was of rust-toned bird’s-eye tweed.
From Hungary came Merika Saary, in a
burgundy-wool frock. Gerda Bjoumstad,
her pinafore ensemble of steel-grey
velvet, comes from Norway. David
Martin made a happy speech of thanks
to Dante Triaca.
Alice Adcock, matron of the Margaret
Coles Maternity wing of the Alfred Hos-
pital, served in the nursing service
in the Middle East, New Guinea and
Manila. Today at Government House
Sir Dallas Brooks will invest her with
the Royal Red Cross, a decoration she
earned while on service. Matron Adcock
is the daughter of Mrs. W. Adcock, of
Tocumwal (N.S.W.), and the late Mr.
W. Adcock.
The weather was appropriately cold
for the Moonee Valley Racing Club’s
charity meeting, and the heavy and
generously-proportioned coat was the
order of the day. Mrs. P. J. Lennon, in
mink over hyacinth-blue wool and a
small blue hat, watched one of her horses
land the bacon. Mrs. W. A. Bartlett
wore a silver-fox cape over a black
frock ; her black hat was finished with coq
feathers. A Hunter’s-green wool coat with
a matching hat made smart alliance for
Mrs. Norman Strange. Mrs. Alec Hunter’s
royal-blue suit was worn under a grey
tweed coat; her grey hat had matching
velvet trimmings. Mrs. John Davoren
combined fawn French gabardine and a
nigger-brown felt fiat. Blue tailorings and
matching feathers were Mrs. Gallagher’s
choice. Mrs. B. J. Hattam and her
daughter Eileen made it a duo in navy.
Mrs. lan Miller’s small leopardskin cap
was matched by her snow-boots, neat
contrast for her powder-blue wool suit.
Mrs. J, Bowen Pain’s brown, grey and
fawn checks were topped by a brown hat.
Josie Collins wore tweeds under
ermine ; her brown hat had beige ribbon-
trimmings. Mrs. Sam Wood was in
beige tweeds, and Mrs. Laurie Skewes’s
wool frock was in multicolored stripes.
From Sydney
Remember that all the gaieties and
happiness recounted in this screed would
not have been possible but for the soldiers
of two World Wars. Many of them are
sick and ailing, maimed for. life. On
April 25, Anzac Day, the Diggers’ tin-
hat will be sold to help make life a bit
easier for them. You will buy and wear
a tin-hat, won’t you?
R.A.S. and A J.C. importants were star-
scattered among the 300 or so guests
entertained by the Governor, Lieut.-
General John Northcott, and daughter
Elizabeth one afternoon last week. Mrs.
Northcott was unable to attend, but Miss
Northcott carried out the duties of hostess
with friendly charm. That autumn is
indeed upon us was manifest by the bowls
of yellow- and wine-colored chrysan-
themums, and the woollen frocks and
furs worn by the women guests. Mrs.
E. J. Harrison, wife of Australia’s
Minister-elect in London, was surrounded
all the afternoon. English people will
like her calm poise and her style of dress-
ing. Her swept-back sapphire felt hat
was finishing touch to a frock of the
same shade bright with sequin em-
broideries. She left for England in the
Stratheden last Friday. The wife of
Senator Spooner (her suit was a lovely
tone of cherry) also travelled in
Sttptheden ; but her journey’s end was
Melbourne.
Tall men present Were Eric Kennedy,
A J.C.’s high chief Parry-Okeden, Bill
Dovey and L. A. Robb. Parry-Okeden
seemed very, very popular. Mrs.
Kennedy added an almond-green outfit
to the color scheme. Poinsettia-red was
Mrs. Parry-Okeden’s hat; her frock was
black. Mrs. George Macarthur-Onslow
was there, and John Pye, of Camden.
Loveliest hat was Mrs. C. R. Me-
Kerihan’s. It was of fine beige chenille,
and over its upswept brim cascaded the
bronze-gold of Paradise plumes. Anthony
Hordern and Mrs. Hordern and Mr.
Hordern’s daughter, Mrs. Alec Creswick,
were a family group. Mr. and Mrs. C. P.
Johnson were there, he decked (though
invisible to the eye) with R.A.S. honors,
and she very attractive in a black taffeta
afternoon frock and a black velvet hat.
Commented on were Mrs. Gregory
Blaxland’s large muff and little cap of
ocelot. Miss A. McMahon was with her
brother, Alderman Jim McMahon, who
had a letter from Snowy Baker in his
pocket- Miss Northcott’s frock was of
pale-blue faille ; the skirt was ankle-length
and draped to a side-bow.
The late-afternoon celebration at the
R.A.A.F. station at Richmond was the
“different” party of the season. The
visitor from Sydney passed through half
Australia’s history to get there. Past old
St. John’s in Parramatta, across Lennox
Bridge, through the narrow streets of
Windsor, past the towered Francis Green-
way church, past the signs of recent
floodwaters close to the local bit of the
Hawkesbury, the cars drove, through
rainy and dry stretches of road,
leaving behind them, 9s time has done,
the old sandstone home.
There was, in the closing-in of the grey
day, a touch of unreality about the guard-
of-honor in their Air Force uniforms,
drawn up for inspection of Lieut-General
John Northcott, Governor of New South
Wales, about the great outspread wings
of the Douglas brooding over a wide
greeny sward; about the company of
Alsatian dogs, extra guardians of the
might.
Irtside the great rooms of the officers’
mess with their beautiful woods and
parquetry floors where the party sparkled
along there were cups of tea long and hot
for the new arrival. There were clouds of
young Air Force officers and their wives,
and pretty girls who will probably later
on become Air Force wives. The Gov-
ernor could stay only half an hour or so.
He had to get to town to attend the
Governor-General’s dinner-party. Eliza-
beth Northcott was in a deep brown frock
and a yellow felt hat. Captain Nash was
in attendance keeping keen watch that
time and his vice-regal master were in
accord.
Air-Vice-Marshal McCauley and Mrs.
McCauley received the guests. Mrs. Mc-
Cauley’s full-skirted frock was of deep-
blue faille, the pockets on the skirt
banded with a lighter blue. Her small
matching hat was feather-trimmed. Two
pretty daughters, Prudence and Anne,
helped their parents in entertaining. The
Trade Commissioner for Pakistan,
Dr. Rahman, and Mrs. Rahman
were among the consular guests, and
Brazil’s Don Carlos Zalapa. His
lunch-party in honor of the new
Minister for Brazil had not
ended till after three o’clock.
Mrs. Russell was with her father, Colonel
Spain, and Colonel Savage. The C. R.
McKerihans and the Uni.’s Mrs. S. H.
Roberts came in a party. The A.B.C.’s
Mrs. Boyer brought pretty daughter
Marian. Mrs. Harry Clarke, from Bris-
bane, was with her squadron-leader son.
A clinging sequined hat sparkled like
rubies oh Mrs. Rollo Kingsford
Smith. Mrs. Morley (Mrs. McCauley’s
sifter) came from Newcastle for the
party. : , ■
The new Monet
painting of the month^ I*’ 1 *’ “ the
filling the outer court of’the”*? 81 '- be
Gallery with ri ch w the . Na fional
When y this write? had 6 a Vlbrati ‘>'*
tea in its company in the board ° Up
the National Gallerv if i• d : ro ° m of
the atmosphere of that Vl^f kd - up
but sombre room. Director HnVi!? ISbed
ham admitted over
had a fondness for the work he
Roberts. Tom’s “Lady in Grev'^ 0 ®
ms.de and to the left of the first cour i
one of his pets. Staff chieftain J A l,
Sherwood when not fn the se vTce oTart"
IS busy rehearsing for Dr Cardamt?
by HaupCnn:
of WittthVn" B a el, ra.h° W6 B n r^&
S: a . P re y on AprS “ ' h6
Wednesfiay at Randwick was ideal for
the new topcoat. The new styles of high
wmg coliar, deep cuffs, the full-skirfd
or full from the shoulder had been chosen
by their wearers with an eye to the needs
“ S e •r i r ßhs » f the lorso beneath
Feathered hats—the whole bird, excepting
n h f 6 bead ’ 11 . seem£ d was in some
of the handsomest—perched every-
where. Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones’s
mink coat attracted every woman’s
gaze. Jlrs. Ernest Watt was another
belle, "Wer upturned hat had a fur-lined
bi im and her suit was in the smart oat-
meal coloring. Mrs. Eric Pratten’s Persian-
lamb coat came in for commendation ; so
did Mrs. Tom Bateman’s topcoat of teal-
blue with its belted-in waist and its high-
wing collar. Mrs. Bill Adams caught the
eye in her melusine hat of stone beige
and her smart tailorings. Royal- (or what
the Celts might call Patrick-) blue was
Mrs. Tony Hordern’s color scheme.
Brown velvet lapels on a grey suit struck
the unusual note in Barbara Saxton’s
outfit. Her small-fitting cloche was of
brown velvet.
Herewith a daughter of Victoria who,
since she was about four, has had the
ear and the dekire to compose. She is
Vera Buck, who, up to the present, has
written the music to 500 songs. Many
have been published abroad by Boosey,
Broadhurst, Cramer, and in Australia by
Allen’s. Other compositions include
piano works and musical comedies. She
has written music to Chesterton’s superb
poem “The Donkey,” and this has been
sung by Florence Austral, Kirsten Flag
stad and other famed, including Flaro
Williams. Miss Buck broadcasts from
2FC over the A.B.C. network on the ilsi,
at 8.30. The work chosen for the occ
sion is “Flood Waters.” Norton Trevaire
P rKi P rf in .he Fla, Opposite says .he
will just have to buy a Rolls-Royce,
can’t afford the ferry fares any longer.
When there are 1000 gathered together
in one place the effect is
convention than a party. thoU .
been two afternoon gaieties c> e
sand or more strong during the
round. One was the, afler-thc ot(ier
at Royal Sydney Golf Ctaf,
was the after-the-races day
at the Union Club. At eac *V were as
the frocking and the flower
Tommy Tnnder would say, cna v half
The scent of gardenias w traj j s an d
across Bligh-street ron | t j, e staircase
bunches of them adorning th is
leading to the highereserve. Every-
-364-days-of-the-year mal alluring
where were buffets, It’s
decor was turkeys an that the
quite untrue, though, to agile
sucking-pigs had bee s Mo nday
members of the cim «o P ii Z apoppin. .
night’s performance o capa ble and
Mrs. Florence Taylor, sectlon
serene president o! * * Asso ciation,
of the Australian-Americar^ embers aSt
was farewelled by sister, M ISS
Monday afternoon- go od-byes-
Annis Parsons, shared on Aprll 22
The two fly off to Ame
for several months holid y


lAVINA
17-jewelled Swiss
Masterpieces
with
NONMAGNETIC escapement
lAVINA
, WATCHES
ifoondei f „ I ss2-vi„. r „, s,i„.
HIS
PUPUCATOR
Has all the finest features
Noixvanjjy
NO Saaiaj
QNV SIJVX3Q
aanxvaaxn
aaxvaxsam
aox ONas
cf high-priced imported
machines at only a Irac-
tion ol their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Jackson & o’sullivan pty. ltd.
, SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
•tdney '
•'ELBoiIRNg W * C Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
JDELaidj; * Nor *nan Bros. Ply Ltd.
_ RT B * Vardon & Sons Ltd
Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
BANK
or
AUSTRALASIA
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND
NEW ZEALAND AND IN LONDON
FFERS the services of its Travel Departments with all
facilities for Travellers in Australia and abroad. The
Overseas Departments will also assist you with their ex-
perience on all aspects of overseas trade introductions and
enquiries, and all foreign exchange matters. Enquiries
will be welcomed at any Branch of the Bank.
AGENTS 6 CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
EST.
JmWL
SCSI
'BAB-I5 *
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Hellzapoppin."
This remarkable item broke
loose at Sydney Empire last
week to the accompaniment of
bands, pistol shots, a stuffed
gorilla, cows, ducks, and spiders,
a live pig, a goose, a mouse, dogs
and other paraphernalia. From
the programme it appears that
the name “Hellzapoppin” is
simply a term—like Irish stew,
bubble-and-squeak or sausage—
for the continually-changing in-
gredients of a variety show
which has been running for
about 25 years. Only that could
explain the announcement that
it was “unanimously acclaimed
by no less than 17 English
papers as the cleanest show ever
brought to England.” Unless, of
course, the old Dart is a very re-
markable place, or the 17 papers
are extremely broadminded.
It could be argued that the
show subsides considerably after
interval, but it is doubtful if
anything, including an audience,
could be sustained through a full
evening at the noisy, explosive
pace of the first half with its
stuffed ducks, spiders and cows
falling from the ceiling, with
people wandering about the
audience and stage mournfully
looking for their seats long after
the show had started; others
leaping up and heatedly arguing
and interjecting; and still an-
other desperate fellow trying to
deliver to Mrs. Jones some eggs
which, as the night wore on,
hatched out into chickens, grew
to fowls and finally became
chicken sandwiches.
Through all the cacophony.
Mo made his return to the stage,
having forsaken it for radio for
some years. The leery Old
Master, who is probably some-
thing that Olsen and Johnson,
the originators of “Hellza-
poppin,” never dreamed of, can
still do what he likes with an
audience, sending it into con-
vulsions with a look, a gesture or
word as he pleases. In fact,
there are probably few
comedians in the world who can
evoke laughter with as little
apparent effort, or who can give
the best lines of a gag to their
fence, then recoup the lot and
bring the house down with some-
thing like “You little trimmah”
or “You little beautay.”
In between Mo, the general
craziness, the legs, the pulchri-
tude and the mist of innuendo
there are a clown with a trom-
bone doing some amusing work,
Hal Lashwood working indus-
triously to sustain the tempera-
ture of the show, David Hogarth
purveying some effectively lazy
humor and sundry other odd
bods including a midget, a walk-
ing corpse, and an elongated
humorist who looks like a tent-
pole and walks like a tarantula
with arthritis.
Paramita.
The National Theatre, Mel-
bourne, which introduced the
local dance world to the esoteric
with the temple-dancing of
Shivaram and Janaki, has pro-
vided something even more
esoteric in Paramita, a Javanese
girl trained at the Court of
Prince Paku Alam, of Jokjak-
arta. Javanese princes, although
Moslems, have maintained the
centuries-old tradition of the
Hindu conquerors of Java of
having their own ballets, some-
times recruited from their own
children, of which there was
usually a supply large enough to
make a European choreo-
grapher’s mouth water.
Paramita’s art obviously stems
from the same source as Shi-
varam’s, and the patterns for it
can be seen in the carvings on
the ancient temples of Boro-
budur, in Java, and of Angkor
.Wat in Indo-China. It is more
determined by tradition than
Shivaram’s. No choreographic
genius or dancer, apparently, has
ever risen in Java to put more
life into the forms, as Nijinsky
did with the Russian ballet. The
face remains as expressionless as
a tombstone, only the arms,
hands and feet move and no ex-
pression is permitted even to the
body.
As only the arms and hands
are available to express emo-
tions there is an extraordinary
development in that direction,
and what Madame Paramita can
do with those limbs is nobody’s
business. Watching them had a
hypnotic effect on the present
writer, and, although he has
watched Javanese village dancers
and even the Court ballet of
his Royal Highness the Sultan
of Jokjakarta, for hours to-
gether, they remained as x incom-
prehensible as ever. There was
no doubt they were saying some-
thing quite important, but to
know what it was you would
have to take a post-graduate
course in the language. Never-
theless, there was a fascinating
charm about it, as there is in any
great tradition and as there was
in the music of the gamelan, ■
which boomed and brayed and
clanked throughout the proceed-
ings and occasionally emitted
what sounded like a melody or
something.
Paramita performed dances of,
Dhurga, Srikandi, and Garuda,
the bird-god, but to Western eyes
her final love dance was the
most expressive, while the cos-
tuming of her small body was
rich, colorful and graceful. R.
Sugoto, Unesco Senior Fellow,
gave scholarly explanations in a
cultivated accent.
"Ice Follie 1950."
Messrs. J. C. Williamson have
frozen the stage of His Majesty’s,
Melbourne, and populated it
with Swiss, Dutch, Norwegian,
French and English wizards of
the skate, Hungarian sylphs of
the silver blade, and jugglers,
acrobats, musical clowns, drunks
and ballerinas, all on skates and
whizzing about without cessa-
tion. Chribi, whose inebriate
routine reaches the dizzy limit,
makes a silent wisecrack and is
a hundred yards from it before
it has crossed the footlights;
with Wim de Jong and Jaques
Cartaux, he also gives a bur-
lesque of charring and of Ameri-
can sailors on deck duty at a
speed which makes one wonder
why the management didn’t think
of the adjective super-sonic.
After a while the entertain-
ment begins to weary with its
excessive grace at these high
speeds, and it is a relief to watch
Marion Davies, British cham-
pion, with producer Armand
Perrin, one-time mountain guide
on the glaciers of Zermatt, danc-
ing with exquisite refinement the
old-time waltz at a pace which
enables you to see what she is
doing.
One of the hottest ingredients
of the dish is the amazing acro-
batics of the Maxwells, who did
much the same turn on hard
boards at the Tivoli before they
left Australia.
* * * *
The Kuringai Theatre Guild’s
current presentation, Dorothy
Blewett’s “Quiet Night,” pro-
duced by Louis Critchley, is set
in the “service section or day
room” of a large Melbourne hos-
pital. There’s a great scurry of
nurses about the place while the
romances of two of them with
doctors are worked out to their
happy and unhappy conclusions,
while another serious-minded
young lady almost throws away
her career, while one patient dies,
another arrives and another
rings all night for bed-pans.
Miss Blewett has made a con-
scientious if not very inspired
recording of her material, and
the producer has done about the
same. The result is a tidy little
play which, if it doesn’t leap into
exciting life anywhere, at least
begins, develops and finishes
neatly and smoothly without
boring, exhilarating or exhausting
its audience. Clarice Mason and
Valerie Davys stand out in an
otherwise evenly-matched cast.
Campoli.
The 1950 rush , of virtuosi
started at Melbourne Town Hall
last week headed by the violinist
Campoli, English by education
but Roman by birth, and look-
ing extremely like a typical
Italian operatic out of whose
stout chest could be expected to
come a voice of commanding
grandeur. Instead, he drew from
his Landolfi strains so sweet and
sometimes almost cloying that
the familiar Beethoven Violin
Concerto seemed to be a new
piece, especially in the beauitful
larghetto. There was a gentle-
ness in places which nearly faded
into silence, but Campoli always
had a full tone and a technique
that was equal to all occasions.
There was a singing quality in
his playing that never faltered.
It was a brilliant concert, and
if the Victorian State Orchestra
still lacks a permanent conductor
it has a pretty good stand-in in
Professor Heinze. The third
Brandenburg Concerto, which
was all strings, sounded a trifle
overloaded, but the Fourth Sym-
phony of Brahms, with its
changes of mood from melan-
choly to brightness, was beauti-
fully rendered.
Erna Berger with
Orchestra.
There seems to be some
affinity between the spirit of
Mozart and the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra. The players
appear to reserve a special polish
for his symphonies, and last
week’s performance under
Eugene Goossens of his “Paris”
Symphony (No. 31) was no ex-
ception. The orchestra excelled
itself. The upper strings have
never been heard to better ad-
vantage, giving a particularly
joyous surge to this sunlit work.
The “Idomeneo” Overture
which preceded it was marked by
taste and refinement, and, in the
softer phases, an excellent
discipline. “A Hero’s Life,”
Richard Strauss’s windy self-
monument, was given its full
content of lushness of orchestral
color. But the orchestra was
obviously not as happy with it
as with the Mozart.
Erna Berger was the soloist in
one of the Queen of the Night’s
arias from “The Magic Flute”
and Zerlina’s aria from “Don
Giovanni.” The liquid purity
of the soprano’s voice, the
effortlessness of her singing and
the extreme delicacy with which
she invested these beautiful songs
make one wonder whether there
is a coloratura living who can
sing Mozart better.
* * * *
The soundness of the tech-
nical equipment now at the
command of pianist Allison
Nelson after five years’ study in
the U.S. was immediately de-
monstrated at her Sydney Con
recital in the Bach C Minor
Partita. An admirable clarity
invested her contrapuntal play-
ing at speed. The Adagio of
Beethoven’s Sonata in E Flat
Major opened impressively. In
the slow middle section the
pianist’s expressiveness fell rather
short of the grief expressed by
the composer, but that is a defect
that maturity should rectify.
Amends were made in the crisp-
ness of her playing of the final
movement. Her Chopin left
little to be desired. Three Pre-
ludes by the contemporary
composer Martinu and Four
Excursions by the American
Samuel Barber comprised the
rest of the recital.
* * * *
New Australian tenor, Ante
Soljanich, presented four ex-
cerpts from Italian opera
at the Queensland Symphony
Orchestra’s second Youth
Concert. His tonal quality was
lacking in warmth, but there was
polished diction in his “Questa
O Quella” from the first act of
“Rigoletto.” The rest of the
programme consisted of light
romantic mod,ern music.
Lambert’s “Horoscope” Suite
was played with brilliant effect,
but suffered, as does much
modern ballet music, by its
divorce from the theatre.
Borodin’s Second Symphony re-
quired greater clarity from the
strings, particularly in the last
movement, than John Farns-
worth Hall managed to draw
from them.
Mosman Musical Society is
doing very nicely—as it generally
does—with its current offering,
“Wildflower,” produced by Len
Getting at Mosman Town Hall.
Betty Parsons as Nina, the fiery
young Italian miss who has to
keep her temper for six months
before she can inherit a fortune,
carefully observes the traditions
of musical comedy, as does
Brian Butters, her poor-but-
honest country lad. Most of the
comedy, and a good measure of
other entertainment as well, is
provided by Cec Mackenzie as
the “legal eagle” of the piece and
by-Shirley Bushelle. Mackenzie
looks like a natural comedian
and earns all the applause he
gets, while Miss Bushelle has
looks, legs and voice, as well as
youth, a sense of comedy and
signs of dramatic ability. With
Hugh Farquharson she turned
in a clinking version of the
“World’s Worst Women,” and
the audience brought them back
for as many encores as it could.
On the opening night Mavis
Sykes’s ballet was an uneven
mixture of grace and energy,
while the orchestra, under
Herbert Wyatt, fulfilled its obli-
gations even to drowning the
reverberations of the Town Hall
stage when the entire company
went into its “Bambalina.” The
show goes on again tonight, to-
morrow and on Friday.
"Peer Gynt"
The M.U.D.C. took on a stiff
job when they essayed Ibsen’s
four acts and 40 scenes at
the University’s Union Theatre,
probably for the first time
in Melbourne. Call it the
Norwegian “Faust” or Eulen-
spiegel, or the story of the
delinquent son reacting against
his mother, or what you
0 Continued on page 35.)


TUMULT IN THE CLOUDS
By DAVID
CAMPBELL
THE CORAL-PINK
ELEPHANT
ON an island airstrip two young
men met face to face behind the
mole of a bofor-gun emplace-
ment. It was fifteen minutes
before take-off. In jungle green, mae-
wests and silk-map cravats, they eyed one
another obliquely, with mild surprise and
sympathetic calculation.
A thin bush of bent gum-trees flanked
the strip, and they chose separate saplings
to stand behind.
“I see,” said Joss Brown, “that you
have all your trophies up, Havelock.”
Ellis, a short, curly-headed young man,
blushed behind his tree and felt for the
toy koala bear hanging from his neck
on a length of fishing-line.
He felt a fool. He liked to
believe that his animal
mascots were invisible to
everyone but himself. And
he discouraged comment.
“If I like to wear them,”
he said, “that’s my busi-
ness.”
He thrust a short defiant
jaw around the gum trunk,
but was surprised by the
understanding in the other’s
eyes.
“Do they bring you luck, Havelock?”
Brown asked.
“Well, they do and they don’t,” said
Ellis. “That is. I’m not sure. I never
fly without them.”
Brown stroked a long underslung jaw
that he usually wore forward and said:
“Do you wear them for association’s
sake then?”
Ellis brought his black brows together
and fumbled cautiously at his shirt-front
for his coral-pink elephant.
“Not exactly.” he said. “Though I
expect I did in the first place.”
Brown came out from behind his tree
into the raw sunlight and said outright:
“Then what the devil do you wear them
for?”
THIS approach frightened Ellis. He
sidled behind his tree and gazed up
through wide boughs at the unanswering
sky.
“I like to wear them,” he said. “That’s
good enough reason for me; and it’ll
have to be good enough for you.”
But Brown had seated himself on a
fallen branch and was running his hand
through his short red hair in the attitude
of a thinker.
“I’m not meaning to be rude,” he said.
“I expect we all have our fears and super-
stitions. Forget it.”
This brought Ellis out from behind his
tree,
“Well, there’s no great secret about it,
really,” he said. “They’ve just become
a sort of habit. I wore them on my first
solo and got away with that all right. It’s
just that I wouldn’t feel comfortable
without them now. I expect it’s bloody
silly, really.”
He looked at Brown, and Brown did
not seem to think so. He was sitting on
the fallen branch, running his hand
through his hair.
“In fact. ~ ” Ellis said. He changed
his mind, said, “ ’Bout time we were
starting up,” and hurried away around
the mole, the elephant hanging a little
less heavily about his neck.
DROWN watched him go, squat and
young and thoughtful; but he did
not follow. He sat still in the hard sun-
light, thinking.
He was thinking that if he could see
Ellis clearly enough he might be able
to see himself, too.
He knew Ellis’s father, a grey, hand-
smoothing chemist on the corner of the
High-street at home. Mr. Ellis weighed
out prescriptions while he talked from
behind a drawn curtain about
Saturday’s tennis. He kept the
neat folded package on the shelf
behind him until he had finished
talking.
If his son lived, he, too, would weigh
out drugs in that soap-smelling shop.
There were two jars of colored water
in the shop window, green and crimson,
and waisted like women, and Brown saw
young Ellis, the apothecary, bowing be-
tween them in a white coat with folded
hands.
In the meantime, Ellis knew with fatal
certainty that should he lose one of his
stuffed toys, sudden death would meet
him in the centre of a shell-burst.
BROWN stood up and kicked with
blunt boots at the knots of grass.
And here was he, an
affable young stockbroker,
about to set out on a
dangerous mission. Did he
sweat at the thought of
death from shell-fire? Not
a bit. He had a transcend-
ing fear of night-flying.
He dreaded the horizon-
less night and the final turn
into the wind when the flare-
path squares out and be-
comes a dangerous oasis in
a desert of black, air. The
road to the normal world lies dim and
narrow under the nose ; and on either
side, in darkness, huddle the malicious
trees.
And yet, six weeks ago, night-flying
had been easy; it had been no trouble
at all.
Brown was brought back to daylight
by the cough of a motor. The formation
was starting up. He stood there, think-
ing that if only he had time, an hour, a
minute, he would see things in perspective
and conquer this unreasonable fear.
Another motor coughed. There wasn’t
time.
Brown stamped the good earth beneath
his feet; said, “Be good to me, pal,” and
walked resolutely around the mole to his
aircraft.
He noticed that the shadow of the air-
craft lay across the strip.
ONE MORE TURN
ROUND
A CATALINA flying-boat circled
a map position above a dull sea.
The sea was stirred by currents
that faded out in hazy distances.
The two pilots were throwing dice.
They had the automatic-pilot in control
and they threw the dice on a pasteboard
map between the seats.
“Financially, this is the most successful
operation I’ve been on for some time,”
Joe Read said. “Pity we have to go
home.”
He was extremely small, bolstered up
and forward on cushions in the captain’s
seat. His hand as he smoothed the curves
of his rust-red moustache was like the
hand of a child reaching up to find out
whether the moustache was real.
“One more circuit, Joe ; one more turn
round,” Scott said. “Your luck can’t last
at this pace.”
“Well, if you want to throw your
money down the drain”
And he was crooning endearments to
the dice as if they • were little women
when his wireless-operator called him
on the inter-communication gear,
“Skip, an emergency distress signal is
just coming through; relayed from
Darwin.”
“All right; all right.”
READ threw the dice, collected the
stake and, banking the flying-boat
oveir on its wing, began to climb north-
west into the setting sun.
“Probably the other bloody way,” he
said. “It always is. Let’s have the
message as soon as you’ve decoded it.
How about some coffee, Mac.?”
As the flying-boat gained height he
could see the mountains on the horizon
and the cloud towering above the moun-
tains, like blue rock. The Catalina
climbed at eighty-five knots.
“Here’s the message. Skip,” the
operator said. “Four men afloat in a
dinghy one mile north of the target. One
Mitchell top cover. How do you like
that?” ,
“God blast their eyes,” said Read.
“Why the devil didn’t we hear of this
before? The strike’s been over for three-
quarters of an hour at least.”
" “There’s probably a skip distance,” the
operator said, “and they couldn’t con-
tact us. This wireless is behaving like
a bagful of cats.”
“Then drown ’em,” said Read.
At seven thousand feet they were still
in the shadow of cloud that dwarfed the
sky with monstrous anvil-heads. The
sun died within them and far below the
sea became iron-grey.
“They must be up around the seven-
teen thousand,” Scott said beside Read.
“Can you see your way over?”
Joe Read looked at his watch. He
thought—we’re for it, anyway.
There was a half-conscious idea at the
back of his mind that if he met this
danger it might not be necessary to face
the other.
“Look, Clarrie,” he said. “I don’t go
much on taxi-ing around enemy anchor-
ages in the dark. It’s not my idea of a
good time at all. So I’m going through
the cloud. It shouldn’t be too bad below
that saddle there; and at seven thousand
we’ll clear the mountains by a couple of
thou’, I’ve been through worse at night
—but then you can’t see them. At any
rate, if I get into trouble, you work with
me on the controls. But don’t overpower
me, you hulking great brute.”
The Catalina plunged into the cloud
like a dragon-fly into the belly of a
toppling wave.
Night lay like a kernel at the centre
of the cloud. The Catalina groaned and
staggered under the buffeting of invisible
forces. The two pilots worked at the
controls, their eyes never leav-
ing the illuminated instruments.
The miniature aircraft on the
panel which portrayed the alti-
tude of the flying-boat stood on
its port wing-tip. Both pilots applied full
opposite aileron. A second passed, and
no answer came to the controls. Then
as a wrestler will break from a clinch only
to become locked in an alternative pose,
the miniature aircraft flicked on to its
starboard wing-tip and was held there.
At the same time the altimeter began to
turn like the second-hand of a watch.
They were in the up-draughts.
Locked elbows braced the stick against
the panel. The revo-
lution of the altimeter
showed dnd the air-
speed rose to two
hundred knots. The
two men sweated in the
dark cockpit. Slowly
the rain and the dark-
ness lessened. They
broke cloud at fifteen thousand feet while
their aircraft climbed in a diving attitude.
“So much for that.”
Joe Read looked at Scott from mock-
ing eyes that still showed rims of white.
“Thought we wouldn’t come out of
it, did you?” he said. “Mac! Is that
our coffee you’re standing in?”
“It is,” said the engineer. “Sugared
and all. And if we stay at this height
we’ll have iced coffee for supper.”
“Swab it up,” said Read, “and make
another lot. And crew: tidy up. We’re
expecting visitors.
HE reduced power and began to circle
down J-hfough the burnt-out cloud-
columns to the northward. A blue twi
light world lay below where the land
was distinguishable from the sea only
by its darker shadows. To port, like
summer lightning, guns flickered.
“This is the right place, all right,” Read
said. He banked to starboard and heard
the sudden sizzling on the stove. “For-
get the coffee, Mac. Can you raise the
Mitchell, operator?”
As he spoke, a call came through with
startling clearness like a voice in a seance.
“Are you receiving? Are you receiv-
ing? Michael calling Catfish: Go ahead.
Over.”
Read put aside his hand-transmitter
and slipped on his throat microphone.
“Michael from Catfish: Receiving you
loud and clear. How are you receiving
me? I am at three thousand feet, one
mile east of Besar Island. Report your
position. Over.”
“Catfish from Michael: Receiving you
loud and clear. I am two miles east
of the town at one thousand feet. The
dinghy is between me and the sunken
ship. It is getting very difficult to see.
I suggest that I drop two flame-floats
north-south, and two east-west. The
dinghy will lie in the apex. Does that
suit you? Over.”
“Roger, Michael: Go ahead.”
THIRTY seconds later Read saw two
orange lights blossom on the surface
of the sea. The shore batteries opened
up on them.
“Looks pretty hot in there, Michael.”
There was no reply until two more
lights bloomed, on the water, parallel
with the coast.
“Right. . There you are, Catfish,”
Michael called. “Come right in now.
You won’t see them in another five
minutes, I will be above you and direct
you once you’re down.”
In the pale-blue reflections of .the in-
strument lighting,. Read’s face hardened,
becoming . tight with anger. Who was
that ordering him into his grave
in the angle of those bobbing lights; not
giving him a moment to consider? Apart
from the guns, there was the sea: an
iron swell to split the hull in the failing
light; a stick of driftwood from the
wreck to rip them wide. Yet here was
some ignorant fool with no knowledge
of seamanship making his decisions for
him. ... .
“You’d better stick above, Michael,
he said. “Floats, engineer.”
The dim horizon tilted and slipped
past their nose. There was the noise o
running chains as the floats came dow ■
Checking above the. grey sea-hifiocKS,
the two pilots looked straight ahea
the rapidly approaching illuminations
th The n first Joss Brown, in the M^ 1 ’
saw of the Catalina was a wM
drawn on the grey sea ; but by that tin
he had lost sight of the dinghy. &
directed the Catalina to the apex of
triangle, . .
pi N the water Read was s u r P nsea He y
the strange normality of thing •
might have been taxi-mg to a buoy
Middle Arm anchorage
sea lapped happily at the hull, a
ing across its grey expanse he c 0“ As
the converging reflections of the
they neared th f a^ e
a column of water
from under wind-
and drenched be w gre
screen. t he
under fire from
shore batte f rieS the T shells
plosion of tn .
above the noise
motors sounded like the poppms
champagne corks. id the navi'
“Some party, eh, Stop- sboW ed
gator. His head and sh , tThere > s the
through the hate . dame d if
wreck straight ahead, but ber star-
I can see the dinghy. over there.
board: there’s something darK col .
Port: swing port. Ooa. sorn ethin%
lected a burnt-out launch. And
I give up, Skip. I can t s
I don’t go for this much. rep orted-
A moment later the M jj o w are
“Can’t see the dinghy, Catftsn. baV e
you going down there.
stopped firing.” ~ nod from
Joe Read tasted the blopa


hiffen HP- He said to himself: Eas Y.
: “ ke • take it easy. Only one more turn
round ’ He wanted to go home. His
mind resisted the impulse of his body
" iam the throttles through.the gate
md to take the flying-boat off. He did
not like the stillness of the guns. It
'obably meant that launches were out
after him. He had done all that was
expected of him; to wait was suicide.
And there was his crew to consider. One
more turn round, he told his body. In
the darkness he could not distinguish land
from sea.
a BRILLIANT ray of violet light lit
Aup the sea to their port. A search-
light had been set i.»p on the stern of
the Vreck. The light hesitated on the
water and moved towards them.
Read felt a thump on his arm. Scott
beside him was going through the actions
of a hitchhiker.
“Let’s get out of here,” he said.
“Dinghy to port!”
Read was swinging the Catalina to sea-
ward on full starboard throttle when the
cry came from his navigator. A hundred
yards away, in the centre of the violet
pathway, lay the yellow dinghy. Read
sobbed as he taxied into the brilliance
of the light. He turned his tail into the
dinghy and at the same moment tracer
flowed down the beam.
“Step on it,” he said. “Have you got
them? We can’t wait. Have you got
them?”
Down the long tunnel of the fuselage
he saw clambering men, now dark, now
vivid, hauling dim shapes up through the
sloping gun-blister.
A ten-second eternity ended. Word
came, “Roger, Skip. Take her away! ”
I N a blinding violet world no bigger
1 than a room, Read commenced his
take-off. The reflected light from the
windscreen hid the sea, and only the in-
struments told him of his relative posi-
tion. He fought the sea and wind at
second-hand, crying “Come up, you - ;
come up, you !” The hull of the
flying-boat struck the ridges of the swell,
and Read rode at the controls like a
jockey. Joss Brown saw the Catalina
leave its phosphorescent wake behind.
It banked steeply into the darkness. The
searchlight swept the deserted sea and
went out.
“How are you going, Catfish?” he
called. “Did you get them? Is Flight-
Lieutenant Ellis all right?”
A crackle came through the receiver;
and then a voice from the darkness, flat
with control: “Yes, we got them. Three
are all right: shock and bruises. But Ellis
15 bad way. His IcH leg is shattered
and he’s badly burnt. That is all. And
now ’—with the voice jising—“shut up,
will you? I’m going to have some coffee.”
Joe Read found that he was shaking
with anger, sweating it. Why the devil
nadnt he been told of this job earlier?
He knew the reason: radio interference ;
ut his fever annulled it. He crouched
muttering and swearing among his
gripping the wheel with his
all hands until they showed white and
stopped trembling.
nn A n, d 'y hei V the engineer touched him
I * . s^9 ulde . r > suc h an image of fear
P ln “is mind—the shattering of the
—th a slackness in the controls
a he upset the coffee over his sleeve,
cursed the engineer for a clumsy fool.
BiS ll ? e 9 offee comforted him. They
the whoi, ed °ut of the sea-haze and
familia? 6 t Sky °P ened up around him, the
course S Tf rS by which he checked his
motor.' i? Was known territory. The
rhythm *u e * r sweet three-second
Bee?^ n u they were for Lome,
motor. and bed » beer and bed. The
were And the ditched crew
sa ely in the bunks behind.
Me otr° h A^ a '™ ” Read "you
Proving 'it ° d ac — your coffee’s im-
From tl WaS WOrth waiting for.”
gripped his, S ? aight b unk aft, Ellis
hands and f e Phant mascot in bandaged
had never °S? into the night. He
And r n such stars.
through f night a call ca me
PCtrol-tank h u from Mic hael! My
to Cartl r k p has f been holed - I shall fly
the sea cl 66 and crash - lan d there on
d ’ Lan you stand by? Over.”
WE’LL ALL JUMP
IN together
a * rcra ft climbed into the
spluttered * n< l behind gunfire
time in m f Ut v? haze ' or the rst
the controls harf hours Joss Brown at
It was am. d to think.
c °ming bacL°< rn£ ? t be had dreaded. But,
hy a feeling of «i^ elf Ai e was sur Prised
turned at L° kft e , t T* 16 fear that had
no longer there. ° f mind all da *
_ been an fear, a
fear of landing at night on the tree-
flanked strip back at base. Lately the eye
of the flare-path had seemed so treacher-
ously narrow.
And now a landing at base was out of
the question. A bullet had pierced the
auxiliary fuel-tank and shortly he must
crash-land the aircraft on the sea. It was
an act of fate; something for which
Brown did not feel responsible.
“Right-oh, crew,” he said. “I want
you all up the front. Right down the
aisle, please. I’m levelling out; and we’ll
need Ao get our nose down to make
Cartier Reef. All except you, Johnnie.
You stay by the wireless. And Les? I m
cutting back the airspeed to 150 knots.”
The note of the engines slowed and
broadened. The aircraft rode the top
layer of an inversion. With a quick move-
ment of his hand. Brown caught a small
black fly against the window glass. He
opened the window and let it out into the
slipstream.
1 his action bfought the night down
around him. A multitude of stars poured
cold light into the cockpit and engraved
the black tenuous folds of the haze below.
Brown had an image of the small fly lost
m immensity. It led him to the edge of
space. The earth turned beneath him,
and he was cut off from it; isolated
among the stars.
He stared down into the haze. Some-
where down there, he must bring the air-
craft back to earth. And tonight there
would be no needle-eye of flares.
Brown looked out into the darkness,
thinking of a small black fly; and his
knee trembled at the controls. Responsi-
bility had returned.
A ROUGH hand cuffed his shoulder.
* “So you reckon you've won my
beer ration, do you, Joss?”
It was Bill Stanford, his tail-gunner.
‘T certainly do,” Brown said.
There was still this small world within
the shell of fuselage, and its relations with
that other world.
“The ship was there: that was the bet.
Still, I might give you half a glass.”
“There’s the generous Joss. But it was
almost worth it. Do you know, as we
went over, I met the ship’s cook face to
face: tall white cap and white apron.
Oh! A great spread! Going over the
rail like a hurdler. Funny the little things
you s’ee, Seemed a pity to shoot him.”
“But you did?”
“There was a gun up forrard ...”
Stanford said. “But look here, you great
red idol! About that beh Three thousand
tons, we said. She didn’t have it in her.
That’s my stance.”
“Is it?” Brown said. “Well, you know
what you can do? Jump in the lake.”
“That’s what I’m afraid of,” Stanford
said. “That’s just it, boy. But you’ll be
with me! We’ll all jump in together.”
Stanford found this irresistibly funny.
He leaned his great weight between the
seats, shaking them with his laughter.
“Eric doesn’t drink,” he said, clapping
the second pilot between the shoulders.
“You’ll give me your beer, won’t you,
Eric? I’ll be right, you’ll find.”
He looked sideways at the young man’s
pale lonely face and offered him a
cigarette.
“Go on,” he said. “Do you good.”
Eric Law shook his head. “I don’t'
smoke, thanks,” he said.
D ILL STANFORD was about to
J laugh. Here we are, he thought, be-
tween life and death, and he still thinks
it wrong to smoke. Probably promised his
mother or something, remembering the
photograph in their tent of a faded hawk-
like beauty. If she could see her darling
child now!
But Stanford did not laugh. He was
looking at Law, wondering what he could
say to the boy. There seemed to be not
one thing in the whole world that he could
say to him.
“Shore,” he said. “You went to Shore,
didn’t you? Bloody bad lot of rowers.
Funny they could never row.”
“What do you know about it?”
“Oh, I did a bit of rowing with the
police crew.”
For a moment disdain replaced the
scared whiteness in the young man’s eyes.
They were without insight or friendship.
The scared look returned.
“Shore!” Brown said. “A
bunch of bullocks in a boat.
Now Grammar’s a different
matter. Remember the year
Grammar went Head in a
clinker eight?”
The second pilot came out of himself.
“Why,” he said, “Shore’s gone head or
the river every second year. Grammar
isn’t in it.”
“Sheer luck,” said Stanford. “I’m
sorry for you boys, the coach you’ve got;”
Eric Law sat forward and argued with
intense fervor. He was like a priest at
the bedside. Yet he was ready to pick
a fight with Stanford.
Brown met Stanford’s eye and felt the
pressure of his big hand on his shoulder.
“What do you say, Snowie?” Stanford
said, turning. “A bad lot of rowers?”
“I’m from West Australia,” Whitehead
said from the darkness.
He was surprised at Stanford. Here
they were, and Stanford must talk of
school rowing. He would not be a party*
to it. He kept saying to himself “The
spin of a coin. Well, there you go}”
Whitehead was not usually in Brown's
crew. The turret-gunner had reported
sick that morning, and he and several
others had tossed for the position. White-
head had won. Endlessly his thumb
tossed an invisible coin.
A LONE, down the back, Johnnie
Roberts prepared for the ditching.
Against the bulkhead he had stacked
water-cans, rations, first-aid kits, distress
signals, dinghies. And now he sat back
with his feet on the water-cans, rolling a
cigarette. He turned it in his fingers. It
was perfect. He put it with the others
in a watertight tin and rolled tobacco in
his dry palm.
Roberts believed in doing things well;
and in being prepared. For instance,
there was that clause, in his will in case
his wife married again.
He had drawn the will up himself, and
in the comfort of legal phrases had never
really imagined his own death. But it
was in the evidence and had to be pro-
vided for. He knew of so many cases . . .
And there were the children’s interests to
protect.
Now, confronted by death, he thought
of his children. They crept giggling into
his study while he worked. Would that
be their memory of him? A precise man
in a city suit—old to them, no doubt-
nodding gravely while they showed him
the dead robin; a man who turned on an
impulse to jot down a thought, a phrase.
Suddenly he wanted to leave more than
that: more than a dry image and a clause
in a will. Leave what? Love perhaps.
To be remembered with love. Was that
it? Love, or its break-up, had brought
in most of Roberts’s business.
He rolled another cigarette in the dim
tail of the aircraft, thinking of his wife.
Why did women need such constant
reassurance? The question would crop
up for no reason, while they garaged the
car, while they dressed for dinner.
“Johnnie, do you still love me?” A
question repeated in the eye.
“Of course,” he would say. “Of course,
dear. By the way, Wallace was asking
after you at lunch today.”
And he would reach out for the little
bead light-chain under the bedside-lamp.
Their marriage for him was a good
working arrangement—a partnership.
Roberts’s mind groped among the files
and brought out their courtship days.
The scant, the ache, the mystery, still
clung to them —things that could never
be recaptured. Yet was there not some-
thing more important? A warmer glow :
sympathy for days shared, and nights and
thoughts and houses.
If he got out of this . . .
Roberts found that the quality of his
cigarettes had fallen off. That was no
way to think. You made all preparations;
you took all precautions. And then you
Waited like this, as he had waited many
times for the erratic verdict of the jury.
HE looked at his watch and was busy
for several minutes at the wireless.
“Wireless-operator to navigator,” he said.
“Here’s that radio fix: Darwin-
Merauke.”
He gave the bearings of both stations.
In a moment Les St. John called back.
“Nice work, Johnnie. That puts us
within three miles of my dead-reckoning
position.”
“That so?” Roberts said dryly. “Then
it must be wrong.”
At the navigation-table, St. John kept
bis head buried in his work. He had set
himself a strict routine: a drift on a
flame-float every ten minutes; three
wireless-fixes and two star-fixes to the
hour. His mind worked with the slow
precision of a machine.
He brought a star into transit with the
small glowing bubble in his sextant; he
peered through the dark bombing panel
at the lonely tongue of the flare flickering?
on the sea far below; and he tried to;
regard them as purely navigational aids. ’
But at times the night came in ; and then,
he muttered to the black mists: “Thy will!
be done.” He groped his way back to his
seat, comforted.
Suddenly he realised that there wasi
nothing more for him to do. He crawled
through to the windy nose and gazed)
steadily out into the darkness. He was
looking for the reef.
“We should be there in four minutes
now, Joss.. Think we should start losing
height? The haze seems to be thinning
a little.”
“All right,” Brown said, “I’ll take her
down to two thousand feet. And crew: ,
go back to your normal positions and;
keep a good look-out.”
'T HE aircraft nosed down towards the
* sea where the stars were reflected in;
the clear patches between the haze. The
panel clock ticked off three minutes.
“What’s that to starboard?”
“What do you think, Les?”
Towards the indistinct horizon, a black
shape lay on the dark sea.
“May be it, Joss. Better have a look.
1 thought it would show white at night, l
though.”
Brown turned starboard, checked his 1
petrol. He thought, if this isn’t it, we’-fe'
done for. Was he right to turn? Even
death, it seemed, did not come without
an agony of doubt.
After five minutes’ flying they were in
the shadow of a heavy cloud.
“Cloud shadows,” Brown said. “Right,
Les, take us back on to track. Johnnie,
get us a radio-fix and go into distress-
ditching procedure. The rest of you take
up your ditching positions. We’ve about
another ten minutes in the ain>”
He turned the aircraft through one
hundred and eighty degrees and flew back
on to track. The reflections of the stars
were like the lights of a great city. The
lights dimmed and they were back in the
haze.
“We’ll run down track for three
minutes,” Brown said. “Step aside for
two and then run north for five. All
right, Les?”
“All right,” St. John said. “We’re
within five or six miles of the reef any-
way. Those bloody cloud-shadows!”
“Don’t worry, Les,” Brown said. “Not
your fault. It’s the haze. The sea looked
calm enough in that clear patch. She’ll
be right, you’ll find.”
Brown’s mind had suddenly cleared.
He was surprised by his own detachment.
It was almost as if this was not happening
to him at all. He was able to stand aside,
without doubts or fears. For his way, too,
was clear. He felt very young and very
old.
THEY ran directly over the reef at their
second turning-point. The reef
showed for a moment as a slight whiten-
ing of the sea and then was lost.
“Right-oh, Les,” Brown said ; “ditch-
ing position. We’ve no time to drop
flame-floats. Wind is what? South-east?
Right. I’ll swing her around and land
towards the reef. All right, blokes ; going
down now. Keep calling the altitude,
Eric.”
“Fifteen hundred feet.”
This was the worst that could happen
to him.
“Thirteen hundred.”
And he had worried about a flare-path!
“Eleven.”
Brown flashed the headlights for a
moment. They were reflected back by the
haze. The darkness was preferable.
“Five hundred feet.”
He caught a glimpse of stars on the
water. They gave a false impression of
infinite depth. With his eyes on the in-
struments, he eased the tail down, the
speed back, holding the aircraft up on
the throttles. And he prepared for his
final duty—to drag the stick into his belly
as they touched.
“Zero.”
With great force the aircraft struck the
invisible sea. The second impact jyas
(Continued on page 32.)


When the WATER came to the HORSE
By J. BALFOUR BROWN
IT had been raining four days noW.
The rain belted down, roaring against
the iron roofs of the farmhouses,
smashing the grass flat, squashing the
tops of the trees. It seethed and hissed
into the ground and the water that was
lying on the ground like millions and
millions o{ writhing snakes. It came
from the west —from inland.
The brown pony let the rain drive her
before it. She turned away from it and
went down the road feeding along the side
as she went. She was only a small pony,
about twelve hands, and the two boys
called her Queenie. They used her to
bring the cows in every morning and
most afternoons when they got home
from school. Sometimes they rode her
just because they felt like riding her.
They let her run along the road, they
called it their “long paddock,” because
it was a small farm and every bit of feed
counted.
But since the rain they hadn’t ridden
Queenie at all. They
had gone to school
on the first two days,
but after that they
were made stay at
home. They helped
their mother in the
house and they helped
their father. For
when a dairyfarmer’s
boys are not at
school they must help
“around the place.”
They helped in
the bails, and they got wood and' they
didn’t have to ride outside in the rain to
bring the cows in for milking. Their
father did that because he had a big oil-
skin and rubber boots. The boys went
barefoot in the mud.
THE rain belted down and the wind
that came with it was cold off the
snow in the mountains, and it seemed as
if a wet blanket had been dropped down
over everything. Everything was damp
and everything was cpld in the wind, but
warm out of the wind.
On this, the fourth day after the rain
started, the road became impassable to
anything but the big timber trucks. And
then they didn’t come because in the
timber back in the hills the tracks off
the side of the road were just deep mud.
The milk truck that took the milk from
the farmhouses into the factory stopped
coming, too, and that meant there was
water on the road somewhere.
But the brown mare Queenie didn’t
know any of these things. She knew that
the rain was falling, that she would
rather walk away from it than into it, and
that the grass was becoming sour in her
mouth.
Back at the farm Murray said:
“There’ll be a flood if this keeps up.”
It wasn’t altogether his own observa-
tion. He had the radio to tell him that
on the highlands inland the rain, four
inches and a half in, one day, had melted
the snow. That would mean the rivers
would be coming down any time now.
And Murray had been a dairyfarmer
on the Belmore flat now for twelve years.
Floods weren’t new on this part of the
north coast. 4 People expected them
every three years or so.
A FLOOD inconvenienced you, and if
. you took the risk, like Murray, of
being on low ground, you sometimes lost
crops and a few stock. But then, too, if
you were on low ground like Murray,
you made up for it in the years when
there were no floods because your ground
was just that much better than anyone
else’s.
The rain didn’t stop after the fourth
day, or the fifth. And when the creek was
the bridge Murray told his wife
u two b °y s ’ J°hn and Peter, that
they had better all get out in the morn-
ing. They would go over to McPherson’s
They would get the cows moving
nrst thing in the morning, and before
they went they would put all the
furniture and clothes they could in the
rafters and in the ceiling of their house.
The boys were enjoying it. They
thought it was fun, and they would be
able to tell the kids at school when they
went back that this time they had had to
mo ' , e. They had been in floods before
and the house had been cut off, but they
had never had to move before.
“And,” said John, “it won’t be as bad
as the flood in the ’nineties.”
That was something you said on this
part of the north coast. No flood could,
be as bad as the one of the ’nineties. Then
the Belmore hadn’t had a farm on it
(for one good reason that the ’nineties
settlers had higher ground to take up
first) and thousands of cattle had
drowned —people, too.
No flood could be as bad as the
’nineties flood, you said. Murray didn’t
know it yet (although he thought it might
be a bigger flood than the one three years
before), his wife didn’t know, John and
Peter didn’t know, but this flood was
going to be far bigger than the flood of
the ’nineties. More people, almost a dozen,
were going to drown. Fifteen thousand
cattle were going to go out to sea. In the
town whole houses and buildings were
going to be swept away, and behind the
houses there would be
nothing standing higher
than three feet out of
the mud.
I UST after midnight
the river came over
its banks. By the half-
daylight of the sixth day
the water from the river
was spreading out
meeting the water from
the sky, and soon there
would be nothing that
was not water.
Murray hadn’t expected it to come so
quickly. He thought he would have
another day at, least to move the cows
over to McPherson’s. But when he saw
the water in the morning moving up
towards the house he knew he would
have to move very quickly. He had no
high ground himself, except the mound
the house was built on, and his cows,
only twenty of them, were his livelihood.
So to his wife he said, “Take the truck
and go now, you should be able to get
her along the road to Mac’s if you take
her slowly. I’ll come on as soon as I
can.”
His wife was in the truck with the two
boys and they had Bluey, his red cattle-
dog, with them.
John said; “Dad, let me stay; I’ll
help,”
Murray said: “Here, Blue; down
here, boy. John, you shut up and go with
your mother when I tell you, or you
watch out.”
For Murray was frightened now. He
had heard over the wireless that the full
force of the rivers wasn’t expected till
night. If he couldn’t get the cows out in
two or three hours, though, he would
never get them out. The wireless could
be wrong about the rivers being up. But
it was still raining, still dropping down
like a bloody bucket, and there was no
sign of a break.
He didn’t want his kids caught. He
wanted them safe at McPherson’s. So he
made them go.
As the truck squelched out the gate
John called, “Well, bring Queenie, won’t
you. Dad. Bring Queenie, she won’t be
far away.”
That was the last thing Murray heard
as the truck went out with his wife driv-
ing. She turned left, away from the road
that went down into the town, and sent
the truck, zigzagging from side to side
of the road in the mud, up towards Mc-
Pherson’s.
There was about three miles to go and
the bridge to get over. After she had
gone only half a mile she came to a low
part where the water was about a
hundred yards wide. Joan Murray was
a dairyfarmer’s daughter and she knew
how to drive a truck. It was a big truck,
and Murray used it sometimes to haul
timber, but she made the boys get out
into the back when she got near the
bridge. If the truck went, she wanted
them to have a chance, even though she
knew that a boy thirteen and one eleven
wouldn’t have much of a chance at all
in a flooded river if they had to swim.
On the lower approach to the bridge
the water was up over its wheels,
and the big diesel motor was down in
low gear, and the noise of the truck in
the water was like a motor-patrol-boat
warming up at its wharf.
The bridge had gone before in floods,
smaller ones than this one looked like
being ; and she hesitated.
She risked it and she got across.
AT McPherson’s there were already the
Hickses and the Smiths. They had
come over in the night and their cattle
were out in McPherson’s orchard.
McPherson was used to all this —he
had these people, some of them, with
him every flood and they always fixed
him up with a few bales of hay, or a
few chickens or a calf when he needed
it. But he never asked for payment, and
if he had he knew he wouldn’t have got
it. If a man had high ground he
wouldn’t be a man if he didn’t let those
that didn’t bring their cattle there.
Joan dropped the boys, turned the
truck, and started down the hill again.
On the way down she met young Fred
Smith coming up with a couple of calves
and three draught-horses.
“Where are you going, Joan?” he
shouted. “You’ll never get across the
bridge in the truck, it’s gone. It went a
few minutes after I came across with
these horses. I reckon the water’s come
up half a foot in the last hour, and it
hasn’t even started properly yet,
“Those on the council. We should
have had a decent bridge years ago. You
say Tom’s back there? Well, he might
swim them across, but he’ll be lucky.”
Fred spoke all at. once, and she could
see he wasn’t really interested in her or
her husband. He was just trying to say
something. Fred was in trouble, too,
“I left six of my best milkers back
there last night. Couldn’t find them. They
won’t have a chance. Joan, you get back
to McPherson’s and don’t worry about
Tom. He’ll be all right, but I don’t
know about his cows, though.”
Then he was gone. Bareback in the
rain squelching up the hill with his
draught’s fetlocks sucking into the mud
with each step.
SHE had nothing else to do but to go
back. The rain was still falling
and the water was spreading out. She
could see down and it was right over to
the Smiths’ place, and there was water all
around there. She could see that far, but
she couldn’t see any further because the
rain was too heavy.
“It must stop, it must stop,” she said.
She put the big truck in reverse and
backed it up the hill because she was
frightened to turn it off the road.
“It must stop.” She said it again, and
she said it just for something to say
because she felt inside that the rain would
never stop and that the river would
never stop coming up. She, too, was
frightened inside.
TOM MURRAY got his milkers to
the bridge, but he never knew after-
wards how fte managed
to get them even that
far. When Joan and the .
boys had gone he threw
a saddle on Ranger, his
big stockhorse, and sent
him at a slithering gallop
out into the paddock. He
had Bluey, and the dog
raced over the muddy
ground after him, but he
knew before long that he
had made a mistake keeping the dog
behind.
The cows were waiting, all grouped
around the gate, and that was lucky.
They were waiting because they would
normally have been milked about now ;
but there would be no milking on this
morning.
Up on the rise beyond the gate Murray
saw his two draughts that he used for
ploughing. He sent Ranger up the slope
and behind the draughts. He wasn’t
going to waste time; and when one of
the horses broke away he let it go. The
other, old Baldy, he drove in front of
him, and he gave her a cut across the
rump with his whip that sent her down
into the cows at the gate with a rush.
“Ho cows, ho cows,” he shouted; and
he left the paddock gate open; and, once
he had got them started with Baldy out
in front trotting, the other draughts came
through after them.
“Here, Blue dog,” he shouted, and the
heeler raced in and bit.
DY tfie time Murray got his cows to
U the house and was pushing them out
on to the road the water had hit ih
bridge. It didn’t come up much more
only about eight inches, but it
enough. And the weight of the big truck
that had gone over a few hours before
had been enough to weaken still more
the already sagging bridge.
It was now about 10.30 in the morn
mg and the rain was still falling it
streamed off Murray’s big hat and down
over his oilskin. His horse’s mane hun*
in wet strips like rope. 8
When they came to the water Baldv
and the draught forged on. But the cows
stopped. Murray had to get them
bunched, and flail them to move thefn in
the water at all. When it got too deen
for the cattle-dog he called it over and
without getting out of his saddle, pulled
the dog up in front of him across the
saddle’s pommel.
The water was up to the cows’ bellies
and the bridge was still around the bend
through the timber.
Murray knew he was going to lose.
One cow, old Roany, had stopped now
and he flogged her but she wouldn’t go!
She was a small cow and an old cow
but she was the best one he had. And
now she had stopped. He got off into
the water up to his thighs and, leading
the horse, tried to push her along. When
she wouldn’t move he left her there. He
knew what would happen. He had seen
it before. She would stay there until the
water came up a bit further, not mucn
further, and then she would let her head
slip under the water.
She would go down as cows always go
down, with that half-sideways roll. And
when the water went down she would be
there, her legs sticking out and her body
still with that sideways twist in it.
HE left two more cows before he got
to the bridge, and when he could
only see the top railing of it above water
and could see that the railing at the
other end wasn’t above the water, he
knew it had gone at one end.
The current didn’t look too bad, but it
had been strong enough to take the
bridge. He knew a place where he might
get across. He would need luck. He
would need an awful lot of luck, but he
just might do it. A place where the
current would be almost behind him,
and where there was a flat bank on the
other side.
Murray made it. Ranger made it. The
dog Bluey made it and the two draught-
horses made it. But of the seventeen
cows he had pushed through the water up
to where the current showed the river
channel only four got across. He had
had to worry too much about himself
to keep the cows going once they got into
the stream. If they swam with him they
would have a chance. If they stopped
they would be gone. Only four swam
with him, and the others went rolling
down with the river. Their bodies turned
over and over, and then they were gone.
It was still raining.
MCPHERSON’S should have been a
happy place.
There were the Murrays, the Smiths,
the Hickses and the McPhersons, an
now four timber-cutters that had slos e
their way through on foot from tnei
camp. They came, not because he r
camp was under water, but because th
tents didn’t keep the rain
out any more, and be-
cause their food
§ °That was the trouble
at McPherson’s.
timbercutters had wa
across, but the water
w T t 3
refugees’ camp. In the fon .
house there were clothes J yin^ hi M r en,
kitchen and, counting tjjf had
twenty-two people. McPh 0
exactly three loaves of breaa, v a
of tea, plenty of sugar, no mea No o ne
garden with plenty of pumpK • 0 f
would starve; and on the= second
the flood and the eighth day
they killed a half-grown ste . t j, e
The cattle brought by the Sim* fifty-
Hickses and Tom Murray total
three. With McPherson s ca! an
made eighty-two. And they
island of about ten acres. t here
No human would starve, would
would be cows, and horses, do wn
starve, and if the wate^f t d would die.
there would be cows that
The water didn’t go down- an d they
McPherson had his wireies:, toWO
heard what had happened! \ that
fifteen miles away. Tney she d; that
fourteen houses had been sm co mo
the big river, not their river,


, ume main street thirty-feet deep ;
!w down river was just miles and rn.les
u/ater • that three towns down river
° f completely under water ; that the
Wef nle* had gone to the big milk factory
pe H P were living on the top floor; that
, h n e re were farmers who had lost their
of them” said Murray,
W True he S have three horses, a truck,
four cows (springers that if they lived
would be a start) and he had his family.
Of the flood-refugees at McPhersons,
Murray had come out the poorest.
Smith and Hicks had got most of their
cattle away. They had seen the danger
before Murray, and had moved their
cattle in the night. That was their good
luck But if that bridge hadn’t been
down he could have got most of his cows
across. If he had been only an hour
earlier he might have been able to get
all his cows over.
He hadn’t, and that was that.
ON the ninth day the rain stopped.
The river had been over its banks
three days now, and when the sun came
out they could see the whole of Belmore
below them right down to the sea. They
could see their own h'ouses with water all
around and through the windows. They
could see right down to the sea, and they
knew there would be hundreds of people
down at the township near the heads.
They knew, too, that their own river
hadn’t caused this. The big river, the
river that had smashed through the town,
hadn’t been able to get away quickly
enough. It had welled back over into
their own river and all the small rivers
and spread out over the fifteen square
miles or so that made the Belmore, and
over the other flats and valleys.
At McPherson’s they were out of food
now. All they had was tea, sugar, the
pumpkins and what was left of the steer.
The kids weren’t happy, either, John
and Peter, older than the others but for
Charlie Smith, helped with drying the
clothes and getting wood. John and
Peter knew the cows had gone; that
things would be hard from now on. But
they didn’t know what had happened to
Queenie, and that gave them something
to hope for. The hope that Queenie might
be alive was something they could hang
on to ; and it was something they blamed
their father for. He could , have gone
back for her, she wouldn’t have been that
far away, they said. Why hadn’t he gone
back? Why?
U/HEN the water came over the road
the brown mare Queenie was three
nules down towards the town from the
house. She had never known anything
hKe this before, but she didn’t think
about it because she didn’t think about
anything. She was a horse, and when
he water came over the grass was sour,
and she had looked for a long time for
good grass and she hadn’t found any.
y on the first day after the
a er had come over, the water was up
a i Cr shoulder. She was a small pony,
and when the water came up to her
, and , the half-light of the day
to her darkness fear ( came
Murray was at McPherson’s
Oiipp 15 tkree horses and four cows,
pushing through water up
Verv / 10u / der ’ but she was going slowly,
dron h W l y> She would take a step,
Plumrp er r ead t 0 the water and then
stormed a f , ew u more Then she
and P h a pi, a ske stoo d up against a tree
some of around d5O that it stopped
water agato.”^ - dldnt m ° Ve in the
r a| S n he W a7stm e f re ii in the morning and the
a rat that k falling. She was wet, like
The « t aS Just swum through water,
only » Was up t 0 her withers, and
above it rump and her neck were
reached the farmhouse the water
of thefireVff + t toV f’ where remains
s nK)ulderirJ e \ the day before were still
roaring and hissed above
Wa ter rose ove?fl IS Th!n° f i the aS th J
it was nr, Gr lt- T hen it was gone, and
the water a fire that was against
bottom of^a th£ Wet like a lig ht in the
tl? of a mine tunnel,
with nothim* s . tood there against the tree
the next dav l ° ali through the day,
lantanf a £ &nd ? e next day - * the
st °od avain J rds from the tree she
had Hi ’ K^ ere Were two f°xes-
lan tana llke cats into the
f dida ’t know whe e re else’tn llke t the P ° ny ’
from the water t 0 g ° t 0 get away
there, there ’ the pony was
other’s existence. Unconscious of the
Q g^ E £s!y Was hungry now. She had
8 only g r a ss pickings and she was
beginning to feel weak. She was leaning
hard against the tree where before she
had merely used it as a shelter against
the driving rain. agamSt
On the ninth day when the rain
stopiped and the sun came out she grew
tired. Underneath the water it was
colder, and she was frightened to move
She could have walked along the road
about four or five miles and come to
high ground, but she didn’t know that
She could have gone back towards the
farm and then on to McPherson’s if she
could have swum the river, and got to
high ground there. But she didn’t know
that, either.
On the eleventh day after the rain
started and the fifth after the water had
come, she heard an engine coming up the
road. B y
That didn’t surprise her. She was used
to motor trucks and cars on the road
and she didn’t even turn her head when
the “duck” came round the bend To
her the “duck” was just a truck in the
water. And that was just what the
“duck” was—one of the Army’s amohi-
bious landing craft now being used to
rescue people and take them food in the
flood.
it wa s the first time one had come out
this way, and when the skipper saw the
m are standing there he cut his engine so
she wouldn’t be swamped by the bow-
wave. Even so, the wave went over her
5
and for a few seconds she struggled to
keep her head above the water.
But the captain didn’t stop. If he had
wanted to, he could have done nothing
for her. The men in the “duck” had seen
horses standing like Queenie all over the
flood area. And they had been taking
forty tons of food and blankets out every
day for the last five days.
The “duck” went on to the Murrays’
deserted farmhouse, and the crew
stopped long enough to see if anyone
was there. Then it went on to
McPherson’s. In the “duck” was old
Laurie Woods, Laurie had been a farmer
on the Belmore until he had gone into
the town to live three years before. They
had him on the “duck” as a guide, but he
wasn’t much good because he had for-
gotten most of the road; but they
managed, anyhow.
HP HEY went mad at McPherson’s When
1 the “duck” got there. With its
propeller and wheels churning it had
come charging up the river, now running
with less current, and stopped down in
the McPherson’s orchard. It was like a
great brown pig down there, and it
couldn’t get in any closer because of the
stumps and fence-posts under the water.
The Army men handed down blankets
and loaves of bread, and the people at
McPherson’s waded out in the water to
get them. It was all the food they had
with them this time, the Army men said.
But they would be back in two days’
time with more if the people could hold
out until then.
Yes, they said also, there wasn’t much
chance of the water going down for a few
days, but the rain had stopped back in
the mountains, so the people shouldn’t
worry too much.
No, they couldn’t stay. They had other
places to go to and there were people
stranded everywhere.
They didn’t say they had been with-
out sleep for 36 hours, some of them, and
that their “ducks” had been pushed right
around the clock and in total disregard
of Army regulations of greasing, oiling
and maintenance.
Before they went Laurie told Murray
he had seen the brown pony.
“Looked like that little mare I seen
yopr kids ride,” he said. “You might
get her if you had a boat, but she don’t
look as if she’ll last much longer.”
“Thanks,” said Murray. “You bet
we’ve got a boat.”
They had, too. They had built it out
of empty petrol-tins and timber, and if
the “duck” hadn’t come they would have
tried to get into the town for food in it.
Not a safe boat, but a boat just the
same.
\ / URRAY didn’t tell anyone else in
the place, but when the “duck” had
gone he found John, and told him to
come with him down to where they had
tied the boat.
“They tell me Queenife is down the
road a bit,” he said. “I’ve got a bridle
here and I’ll need you to sit in the back
and lead her. If we had some tucker
for her it would be better, but we haven’t,
so it can’t be helped. Run up to the
kitchen and get that big knife your
mother brought with her, will you? And
then come on down to the boat, Sonno.”
John had a loaf of bread he had got
from the soldiers. He had been going
to keep it for himself, but now he would
bring it to give to Queenie to coax her if
she wouldn’t come. He stuffed some
green grass, wet and sticky x now in the
sun, inside his shirt with the bread. He
got the knife, and he knew why his father
was bringing it. If Queenie wouldn’t
follow through the water he’d stick her
so she would die and not starve to death
in the water.
The unwieldy boat drifted down the
river, and Murray hadn’t much to do ex-
cept steer it.
“This is the time to get her out,” he
said to the boy. “When the water starts
getting away down the big river, this
current will go like a train again.”
“Yair,” said John. “Good old
Queenie, eh, Pop?”
Murray smiled. John or Peter didn’t
call him Pop often.
They found Queenie where old Laurie
told them they would. She didn’t move
when they came up to her in the boat,
and while John steadied the boat his
father got down into the water up to his
waist and slipped the bridle over her
head.
She didn’t see them till they were just
on top of her, and when she did she
whinnied—but it was a soft, barely-
heard whinny that was still more than a
nicker.
“Whoa there, old girl,” said Murray.
And John said; “Think y’re going for
a ride, eh, Queenie? Here’s some bread
for y’, old girl.”
SHE followed them. His father rowed
the iron-and-wood boat from the
front, ana the boy sat in the back with
his legs dangling over into the water.
Queenie came step by step behind. With
the boy in front of her she had no fear
where she was going. As they went
slowly along, he gave her handfuls of
bread until it was all gone but a big piece
he was keeping for the river.
They had to coax her to get her to
swim, and John had to drag her in with
the bridle. He let the bread go and it
drifted away down the river. But
Queenie swam with them and she got
across.
It wasn’t till they were over the river
that John noticed it.
“Hey, Pop,” he said. “Look where the
water was up to her—see the mark, way
up on her neck —it was only up to her
middle when we got her, wasn’t it?
The water’s going down all right, Pop ;
it’s going down.”
Murray kept rowing. It was, at that,
he said. The water was going down.
THE water went down, and they went
back to their farm five days after
they got Queenie to McPherson’s.
Queenie died two days after they got
her to McPherson’s. One of the four
remaining cows died, and the three other
cows and the two draughts didn’t die.
And something died and something
was born inside them all.
TWO POEMS... GLORIA RAWLINSON
Blue Clove.
Rakau sits weeping
for a lost blue glove.
When you are thirteen
little things like a lost glove
almost break your heart.
I say to her: Now listen, Rakau.
you cannot go pea-picking
in blue gloves.
Nor weed the kumara, nor milk Old
Sara’s cow, y
in blue gloves.
Next week you may go to town and buy
another pair.. .but no,
these words bring no comfort to the
child;
At thirteen one is permitted to weep
for little things like broken cups
and lost treasures.
I talk to her, speaking the language
of my forebears,
all wise men, with great mana:
In a few years, Rakau, you will perhaps
be grieving for a lost love ;
at thirty, I, a young wife, way mourning
a dead child...
In later years you will certainly shed
tears
for ungrateful children or because
you are growing old or think you are
unwanted.
You talk too much, she whimpers, go
away !
Someone, she thinks, has stolen
her blue glove, her “fairy isle.”
I tell her, it would be those Hauraki
people
who plundered us in the days of long ago,
sweeping across the isthmus, war and
murder,
and all because they said that we had
slaughtered
their pet seal, their loved Ureia. ■
A ugh ! A ugh ! whimpers Rakau, you and
your
old legends!
We had invited this Ureia to visit us,
as to how it died, I do not know,
some say a small child fed it poisonous
berries.
My fairy-isle glove and seals do not make
sense,
and anyway whoever heard of seals in
the Manakau !
Now, Rakau, whoever heard of blue
gloves or fairy
island knitting in those days oflong ago !
But there, you cannot talk with these
young people,
they know so much, they know so very
little ;
they are on different terms with life
from their elders;
they have no sense of the past when one
knew every
hill and tree and could take the short cut
from one village to another in the dark!
Still, I love my grandchild, little Rakau,
I would do much to make her sing and
smile,
I would have her always happy as a
fantail,
I would like to find her lost blue “fairy
isle.”
Gathering Puha.
I gather this puha for my sick daughter-
in-law.
She is very thin and weak now.
She used to laugh a lot, and, dressed in
fine clothes,
she would always be out singing and
dancing.
But such pleasures are not for her —not
now.
She was twelve years younger than my
son
when they were married.
He liked her folly, I think.
I have another son, Fleece-oh,
in a shearing-shed. He writes
how good it is that we have both Benefit
and Pension.
I go to collect them every month, hers
and mine,
mine for old age, hers for my son killed
in Italy.
And what, I ask you, can Pension and
Benefit do
for orphan children ?
You may well answer, feed and clothe
them,
but what is that ?
The boy asks me. How do you make a
boat ?
Can I answer. Go ask Pension ?
The girl says. Show me where the weka
lives.
But it is over the hills among gorse and
bracken —
can I tell her that Benefit will take her
there ?
The boy tells me that his friends and
their fathers
go tonight to spear the flat-fish, or eel-
bobbing —
can I let him go and be at ease knowing
that Benefit or Pension will take care of
him ?
Can Benefit, I ask you, chop the wood
for winter ?
Can Pension come home and cheer a sick
wife ?
Can either of them mend a leaking roof
Or put a kind hand on the head of a child
and say “Son” ?
When 1 look back to when I was young
and happy,
it seems to me the sun was always shin-
ing—
the skies of those years did not cloud
over and rain.
When my boys were small and strong it
was very good
to watch them try to leap off their own
shadows.
but I know that delight will come no
more ;
perhaps some other, but not that again.
She took up her plaited kit ;
white milk oozed from the healing leaves ;
she touched the dead brown fingers of the
flax pods —
And here’s another thing,
these seeds speak to an old Maori,
they tell of a long cold winter coming,
but, with luck, they will be little plants
in spring.


I
V x
There’s
friend
like on old
friend f
m . •
' 'l '
m m
(3 =
D'thUnf ,*
SCOTLAND
VLQ:
(T) c Colluit2’s
Scots (JLlhisky
C6'|t«u«qH (ro uh6c6 isor)c SVftn<t
The home fs_
nyCdUum’s
The uuhiskij is_
seJ£o^
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLIPPER” Ready
Rubbed Aromatic Fine Cut Blended
from Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz.
Packs. Priced 24/- per lb. or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Pine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
CASH WITH ORDER.
PROMPT DESPATCH.
Special Quotes Retailers For Orders
201bs. or Over.
n
S'-
/p
nr
M-
hHiilr?
.
Uf
o>
■re
MOW is the time to
INSULATE YOUR HOME
against H EAT and COLD
If your home is still in course of erection why
not get information on how to insulate for a
time against extremes of weather. No home
truly modern which is stifling in summer a
unpleasantly cold in winter. You s f ve
heating costs too! Even if your home is c
pleted, it’s still not too late to INSULAR
Write, phone phone or call for information on the modern
insulator—B. I. SLAGWOOL
81G.20
msulatufn
pit*
ltd.
Phones: SYDNEY. 8X5584: MELBOUR NE *
BRISBANE 83604: 8.1. ( S A ) ocrTH L 2107
Cen. 7257; Si I, (W.A.) -LTD. PERTH^
The GOVERNOR-GENERAL
By
M.H. Ellis
THE office of Governor-
General is one from which,
in all British Dominions save
Canada, much of the old glory
has departed.
In its pristine status a Gover-
norship (invariably accompanied
by a “captain-generalship”) was
something to regard both with
avarice and with fiwe.
The office reached its peak of
prestige in old India. There
even the Governorship of a
Presidency in the halcyon days
after Warren Hastings had been
tried and during which Pitt’s
India Act was supposedly putting
a curb on predatory wars was
something to make the mouth
water.
But the days have long de-
parted since the gallant
Medows (“Up, lads, and follow
the little gentleman into the
breach!”) was asked to enunci-
ate the principles which had en-
abled him to save £40,000 in
three years out of a total salary
of £33,000-odd.
The dear old gentleman waved
a lazy hand at his secretary.
“Ask Harris,” he drawled. “I
am sure he knows. I don’t.”
Australian Governorships and
Governor - Generalships have
never been like that. This
is a continent upon which
the ambitious vice-regal material
in the early days looked
with a jaundiced eye. It
had no rajahs or nabobs
like the East Indies, no sugar
and slaves like the West Indies.
All that Governorship here
offered was a somewhat
ephemeral power almost un-
limited according to the letters
patent of appointment, but
strictly limited through paucity
of resources.
An early Governor might swell
with pride that he was lord over
half a continent —for colonisa-
tion even on an astronomical
theoretic basis comprised only
the eastern half of what is now
the Commonwealth, plus Maori-
-1 and and an engaging multitude
of islands too numerous to cata-
logue even in an official docu-
ment ; but in plain fact the
colony was restricted near the
end of its first generation to the
1451 square miles of the county
of Cumberland round Sydney, a
few sheepherders over the Blue
Mountains, Newcastle and a.
couple of small settlements in
Van Diemen’s Land.
The Governor then might be
captain-general and empowered
to erect cities, towns, forts and
castles and equip them with arms
and fortifications, but he was
hard enough put to it to build
himself a new dwelling. And
even though it might be a re-
warding satisfaction to know
that if any of the King’s enemies
turned up he had a free hand to
raise troops and put his Majesty’s
foes to death or “preserve them
alive” at his sweet will, where
were the aggressors? Napoleon
certainly was always threatening
from afar, but it was impossible
to raise even a dogfight six
months out from Europe,
. ,
Evolution a Wor
With Parliamentary govern-
ment, as it evolved from the
original New South Wales Legis-
lative Council, there also evolved
a new type of Governors,
over the Australian group of
whom there presided one who
was called Governor-General,
He was merely one of the
colonial Governors acting as co-
ordinator, but his title was trans-
ferred on the formation of the
Commonwealth to the King’s
representative in the Parliament
°f the Commonwealth,
Most people do not realise
that the G.-G. is part of the Par-
liament; but he is a very import-
ant part, since he exercises the
King’s powers in the Common-
wealth, these including the “exe-
cution and maintenance of the
laws of the Constitution and of
the laws of the Commonwealth.”
And he is also titular com-
mander-in-chief of all the mili-
tary, naval and air forces of the
Commonwealth, even though he
may not know an Oerlikon
from a fruit-fly syringe. He has
a salary of £lO,OOO a year,
He has houses and aides-de-camp
and big black motor-cars and
a flag of his own.
But his entourage lacks the
splendor which characterised the
existence of an Indian viceroy
or even of a Governor of Bengal
in recent years. He is without
cavalry guards, and his life is
generally unceremonious by
European and Indian standards.
He does not even assume the
modest state which distinguishes
the menage of the Governor-
General of Canada, even when he
himself is a notable soldier, as
he sometimes has been. He
does not, save when his own
personality earns it for him,
command the universal respect
accorded in India of yore, and
in Canada always, to the King’s
representative. And he, or his
staff, like State Governors, has
at times indeed become, like
everybody else on this continent,
a victim of the “class-war.”
Constitutional authorities differ
about him. He is not Governor-
General of a fully sovereign
State and is, therefore, in some
degree inferior in status to the
State Governors, who are.
Though he executes the laws
under the Constitution, he does
not execute the common law
of the land. He has no criminal
courts to try a generality of
offences. It does not seem to be
possible to commit treason
against his Realm —recently
when the question arose in rela-
tion to a soldier of the Com-
monwealth forces a State had
to be asked to take measures.
The Commonwealth is merely
something stitched together by
an agreement between the States.
Its rights—-yet, at any rate—are
not derived from the unified
sovereignty of its people, but
from powers delegated to it by
the sovereign States. Though it
is “indissoluble,” it seems that
secession of a State would be
possible on being authorised by
the Imperial Parliament, which,
as shown by the decisions of the
committee of the Joint Houses
that, in 1935, sat on the West-
ralian petition for retirement into
isolation, would not be exercised
save on a request by the Com-
monwealth Parliament.
The Governor-General is,
therefore, titular head of a most
peculiar Commonwealth which
became even more peculiar in its
relationships with the Crown
after the passage of Dr. Evatt’s
Royal Titles and other Acts in
1947. The King is King of Aus-
tralia while he is also separately
King of New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, Tasmania,
S.A. and W.A., not to mention
the Solomons and the land
of the Ku-Ku Ku-Kus; with
the strange result that as King
of N.S.W. he may sometimes sue
himself as King of anything else,
despite the fact that the Crown
is supposedly the symbol of
Commonwealth unity.
All this helps to confuse the
position of the Governor-General,
and he does not enjoy, therefore,
the same standing as would be
his if there were only one King’s
representative in the country,
except when his own personal
status secures it for him.
From England to Australia
Like other features of the
Australian Constitution, the
Governor-Generalship has suf-
fered or gained by evolution with
an all too remarkable rapidity.
Until 1924 the G.-G. was
appointed by the King on the
advice of the British Cabinet but
after consultation with Com-
monwealth Ministers, being the
representative of the British
Government as well as of the
King. Since then he has been
appointed by the King on the
advice of the Federal Ministry.
And he has lost the prestige
of being the channel through
which the Australian Gov-
ernment communicates with
the British Government. Gov-
ernment now calls to Govern-
ment direct, not, as formerly,
through the Governor-General.
This change was confirmed by
the 1930 conference when, during
the visit of Mr. Scullin to Eng-
land, the full implications of
how far the new understanding
of the Governor-General’s posi-
tion could be stretched came to
light.
Thq story has been told many
times, from Field-Marshal Bird-
wood’s memoirs, of how the King
informed Mr. Scullin of his wish
to appoint the Gallipoli Com-
mander to Yarralumla and of
how the request was in-
continently rejected by the Aus-
tralian Prime Minister in favor
of the Caucus nominee, Chief
lustice Isaac Isaacs.
It became clear from that
point onward that at any rate
when Labor was in power the
Governor-General would be the
de facto appointee of the Com-
monwealth Ministry, not the
choice of the King acting on the
advice of his Ministers. This, in
the nature of things, virtual
piaces the office in the gift 0 f the
Federal Executive of the AI P
when the A.L.P. is in office, some
of the members of that execn!
tive at times being good republi.
cans like Mr. Arthur Calwell'
who has expressed the view that
Governors-General should h P
elected by the Australian people
a view which strikes at the
whole conception of kingly rule
and Mr. Scullin, who said at
the 1921 Socialisation Confer-
ence that he would vote for
Imperial Federation if it meant
a republic.
Some Labor constitutionalists
led by Dr. Evatt, even hold that
the Commonwealth Government
might, in a special case, legally
demand that the King recall the
Governor-General. And if that
is true, though other authorities
do not accept it, the Governor-
General is merely an officer of
the Commonwealth Government
not more protected than a Com-
missioner of Police or an
Auditor-General or other officer
who can be removed only by
vote of Parliament. This view-
point also would mean that he
is a figurehead, which the Con-
stitution certainly does not intend
him to be. It means that if he,
for instance, refused a Govern-
ment which asked for something
which it was determined to gain,
the Government virtually could
sack him out of hand.
It is, however, safe to say that
though Dr. Evatt is a legal god
to Labor (or was before the
Bank Act appeals before the
Privy Council last year), Labor’s
view of the Governor-General-
ship varies with the party’s poli-
tical needs.
Labor and the G*-G.
In 1914, when Sir Ronald
Munro Ferguson followed the
advice of his Cabinet in refusing
to reveal correspondence between
himself and his Ministers, he
was bitterly criticised by the
Labor members of both Com-
monwealth Houses, one of
having a Governor-General at all
jf he were a mere figurehead
acting on the advice of elected
persons and with no mind of
his own.
Yet no such view would have
been held for a moment with
Labor in office.
Similarly, the view of L a b° r
on the question of the criticism
of Governors and Governors-
General changes like the wind in
April. In May, 1932, when
Governor Game dismissed tne
Lang Ministry, in which the


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
«ead Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
E p DIRECTORS:
K - KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON. ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. P. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
,re ’ Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
't
F
Ancestors of an
Industry
SIT IsUdC ISfcWtOHy who has been described as the
greatest man of science of all time, is best known, to the
general public, for his famous observation of the falling apple.
This led him to formulate his Laws of Motion, the fundamental
laws on which the branch of mathematical physics known as
dynamics is based. His achievements in optics and mathe-
matics have obscured his work as a chemist. Newton’s con-
tact with chemistry began when he was at school in Grantham,
where he lodged with an apothecary. Throughout his life he
displayed great interest in the chemistry of metals, much of
his wont being' of a very practical nature, such as the
production of alloys for use on the mirrors of the reflecting
telescope he designed.
Newton maintained a private chemical laboratory at Trinity
College, Cambridge. His principal service to chemistry was
his clarification of the “corpuscular” theory of matter. This
theory, which held that matter consisted of large numbers of
small particles, was„applied by Newton to explain the facts
he observed while experimenting. Newton was born at
Woolsthorpe, near Grantham, on Christmas Day, 1642.
Entering Trinity College, Cambridge, in 1661, he became
Professor of Mathematics in the University at the very
early age of twenty-seven. He was
appointed Warden of the Royal Mint in
1696, and Master three years later. This
great Englishman died in 1727, leaving
behind him a reputation which has increased
with the passing of the centuries.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
— tt ™™
From first cost to re-sale
|IYHi
will save you money
Motorists who have taken delivery of new
Vauxhalls agree that the wait was well
worth while. Not only have they saved
possibly hundreds of pounds on purchase
price. Also, through VauxhaU’s proved
operating economy and high resale value,
they will make other big savings. You,
too, can save by buying Vauxhall. See
your Vauxhall dealer or distributor.
Place your order NOW so that you can
get delivery as soon as possible.
RICED 6-CYLINDER SALOON IN AUSTRALIA
g
Vauxhall 18 h.p., 6 cyl., Velox Saloon is the lowest-priced
6 cylinder Saloon yet its performance is amazing, thrilling.
It’s a top-gear wonder car with speed and petrol consump-
tion figures outstanding in ANY PRICE CLASS.
LOWEST-PRICED 6 CYLINDER TOURER IN AUSTRALIA
That describes the Velox “Caleche”. Its lighter weight
gives it slight superiority over the Velox Saloon in
performance figures, while its comfortable seating, and
safety-glass windows, give you a luxury ride always,
and open-air freedom when you wish.
fg
GREATEST MONEY-SAVING 12.H.P. CAR IN AUSTRALIA
y
See the VauxhaU Wyvern 12 h.p„ 4 cylinder Saloon or
Caleche. These cars save you money in every way—in
first cost, in running cost, in upkeep—AND VauxhaU
Wyverns have a proved higher resale value.
18 h.p., 6 cyl Velox ... 12 h.p., 4 cyl. Wyvern
Enquire about the “Air
Chief" built-for- Vauxhall
radio—also the conven lent
G.M.A. C. purchase plan.
YAUXHALL
<&» 2ingKsl|
as Jitglani
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE . SYD.NEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Strviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
vi o*4
... General was the present
Attorn nffieneral, Mr. McKell,
G °u Ve \ execration of him was
L nhr°idled His dismissal of the
unbndi . was de .
Labor’s official organ
most diabolical touch to
as ” The Governor
“ Taccutcd of having “yielded
To his Nationalist friends and
1 Hooted revolutionary tactics,
lifter the election was over
the tanks of Lang were
chattered Mr. Heffron, in Par-
iamen accused the Governor
rPartiality. He said that he
°had no knowledge of the law
and scarcely any knowledge of
politics or the requirements of
fhe Australian people, and that
his action had “been contrary to
every principle of British justice.
It would be safe to say, how-
ever that this view does not hold
water for the moment in Labor
ranks Even that member of the
N S. Wales A.L.P. Executive
whose Communist paper in 1922
believed that the King of Eng-
land is “entirely useless” and that
“he has fallen as low as a King
can fall,” together with the sur-
viving worthies of the 19—1 AH
Australian Trade-Union Con-
gress, who were all for a Socialist
republic in Australia, would be
deeply shocked if such criticism
were uttered today against the
King’s Australian representative,
much less the King.
This is shown by the speeches
from the Labor benches in the
Federal Houses on the Address-
in-Reply, all of them devoutly
loyal and couched in language
which might easily have been
framed in the precincts of the
Royal Empire Society.
The Liberal View
Contrary to Labor’s conflict-
ing views, the Liberal side of
the House has always adopted
an independent though respectful
view of the Governor-General-
ship as an office. It was not
Labor but the Bruce Ministry
which took part in the discus-
sions leading to appointments of
Australian Governors-General
on Australian advice. But the
Liberal side differs generally
from the Labor viewpoint in
that it believes that the appoint-
ment shall be de facto, and not
merely formally, in the hands
of the King. The King might
object till he was black in the face
to a Labor nominee without suc-
cess, but Liberal policy is to
have regard for the King’s feel-
ings and reasonable right of
choice in the matter, so long as
the ultimate selection meets with
Australian approval. Its aim is
to place the office on the
highest pedestal, as witness
the choice during its regime
°f a famous soldier, Lord
Cowrie, the Duke of Gloucester
and the Duke of Kent. It is the
Liberal-Country-party aim to
secure the best man for the job,
irrespective of what part of the
British Commonwealth he might
come from, though there is an
increasing leaning towards Aus-
tralian appointments, which is
mitigated by acknowledgment of
the difficulty of obtaining a
home-grown product who is
above party politics, as a King’s
representative should be if he is
to succeed.
Some Governors-General
r ,^^ e Governor-Generalship,
•ke the rest of Commonwealth
institutions, is still only in a
lormative stage of growth. There
nas never been any great uni-
ormity about the exercise of the
otnce.
ucc eeding appointments in
me early days were marked by
growing splendor. It was the
policy m the first days of the
to appoint a
g eat British landowner, with a
Position attained by inheritance
yet with some prior ex-
perience in a less splendid posi-
tion of governorship; also pre-
ferably with contacts with Aus-
tralia. It was not possible, how-
ever, to carry this out regularly.
The Marquis of Linlithgow
had already been Governor of
Victoria when he was appointed
G.-G., and his family had a very
long connection with Australia
—one of its members had done a
great deal towards establishing
the sugar industry here. Lord
Tennyson, who succeeded, was
known in every drawing-room of
the Edwardian era as private
secretary to his illustrious father,
and in every playing field as a
cricketer. He had been Gov-
ernor of S. Australia. Lord
Northcote was son of a leader
of the House of Commons in
Lord Salisbury’s day. He had
been Financial Secretary to the
War Office and Surveyor-General
of Ordnance, and he made way
for Lord Dudley, in whose
reign, with its beautiful chatelaine
and its miniature Court, which
boasted even a Chamberlain —
who that encountered him in
those far-off days does not re-
member the long, lean Lord
Richard Neville? —Federal Gov-
ernment House reached the peak
of stateliness and ceremonial.
Lord Denman, descended from
a Lord Chief Justice who had
been Queen Caroline’s Attorney-
General, was the first soldier to
take office. To him fell the
honor of laying the now-dilapi-
dated foundation-stone of Can-
berra in March, 1913. He made
way for the two handsomest
Gs.-G. of history. Sir Ronald
Munro Ferguson, later Lord
Novar, a Scottish laird of many
acres who had forsaken the
Grenadier Guards to become an
M.P. for Ross and Cromarty and
a Lord of the Treasury, followed
by Lord Forster, who hailed from
the opposite end of the British
Isles, where he had represented
historic Sevenoaks in the House
of Commons for many years. He
was the finest G.-G. athlete —
Eton XI, Oxford XI and Gentle-
men v. # Players —and had a
happy record as a yachtsman in
his later days.
But Forster was not so
romantic a type as John Law-
rence Baird, Lord Stonehaven,
chriistened after a famous Indian
soldier and collateral descendant
of that other doughty Indian
warrior, friend of Governor
Macquarie, whose mother, when
she heard that he had been cap-
tured by the terrifying Haidar
Sahib and chained to another
prisoner, gave vent to no
expression of grief and anxiety
beyond the words: “God help
the chief wha’s chained tae opr
Davie.” Lord Stonehaven was a
diplomatist as adventurous as the
captor of Seringapatam, having
ranged the world, but especially
Abyssinia, and having exchanged
an exciting diplomatic career for
a commission in Military Intelli-
gence and a D.S.O. during World
War 11.
The First Australian 1
Isaac Isaacs was the first and
only Australian Governor-
General before World War
11. His term was marked
by a distinct falling-off in
the social character of the
office, though this was only
temporary and was restored in
the days of Lord Cowrie,
who had come out originally as
military secretary to Lord
Dudley; he had been Governor
of South Australia and was
filched from the Governorship
of N. S. Wales to take office. He
was the greatest fighting soldier
to be Governor-General, regal
in appearance, born in Royal
Windsor 'and a friend of the
Royal family.
He was the only G.-G. who
had commanded a camel corps.
He had senved in the Highland
Light Infantry, in the Cameron
Highlanders, in the First Dragoon
Guards and commanded the
Welsh Guards. He had won a
V.C. in Egypt in the ’nineties,
had gone from the opening
phases of World War I in France
to be severely wounded on Galli-
poli, living to earn a D.S.O. and
bar, C.B. and C.M.G. and to
be mentioned in dispatches five
times before the war was over.
He was the first G.-G. to hold
brigadier-general’s rank, and his
period of rule established the
Governor-Generalship on a basis
of dignity, easygoing ceremoni-
ousness and popularity which
paved the way for the advent of
the Royal period of Governor-
ship during which H.R.H. the
Duke of Gloucester ruled ; the
Duke of Kent would have ruled
but for his early death on war
service in Scotland, the first
Prince of the British Royal
House to die in an air accident.
The Present Position
The present position of the
Governor-Generalship is interest-
ing. With a long period of
Liberal-Country-party Govern-
ment apparently ahead it should
be possible to stabilise the office
and prevent the conception of it
and of the qualifications needed
by its occupant in future being
subject to frequent and startling
changes. If it is to serve the
purpose for which it was created
some steps certainly must be
taken to ensure not only its poli-
tical impartiality and detach-
ment from factions and public
disputes, but also the firm con-
fidence of the electors as a whole,
of whatever party, in the useful-
ness of the position as an im-
partial executive office. As the
King is a vital pillar of the struc-
ture of British government, and
has been since the Georgian
era ended, so must the position
of his deputy be in Australia if
the Constitution is to work
properly.


How much
gf
time will yonr
Executor have for your affairs?
Few men can spare the time from their own affairs to attend properly
to the duties of an Executor and Trustee. The position demands
specialised knowledge and is no task for an amateur.
Why burden a friend with such grave and arduous responsibilities?
The Permanent Trustee Company offers you the assistance of a
group of experts to administer your estate. It is permanent, it
devotes all its efforts to the interests of its clients, and it gives a
service which no individual can offer.
Call and discuss your needs with one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for Free Booklet;
“trust estates and their management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.ChM., F.RA.C.S.
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: C. N. P. Whittle.
Sub Manager: S. U. White.
Secretary: F. R. Garland.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart.
PermaiienlTfttstee
23-25
COMPANY OF N.S.W.JUMrn£D
O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
“MOTHER KNOWS BEST.”
London “Sunday Timess
noted commentator on world
economic affairs George
Schwartz has dealt with the
Menzies decision to abolish
petrol-rationing in a few remarks
that would probably have been
considered deuced bad form if
they’d come from other than a
British source.
The comment supports, in
even more caustic terms, that
made by Mr. Fadden when
cables reported a British
Treasury expert as saying that,
based on February figures, the
cost of Australian derationing
might reach eight million dollars.
“Let me assure these overseas
experts,” said Mr. Fadden, “that
their estimates are just as mis-
leading as those supplied to the
Chifley Administration.”
The London “Sunday Times”
man joins in:
“The Australian Government
has abolished petrol-rationing.
Black mark, Aussie! You’re a
-Minneapolis (U.S.A.) “Tribune.”
WAR AND PEACE.
big boy now and free to go your
own way, but you’ve hurt
piother’s feelings. Mummy had
nlans for you and the rest of the
family, and you’ve upset them.
Mummy was only thinking of
your own good, and mummy
knows best. Mummy has all the
facts at her fingertips and keeps
them in a great big Economic
Survey. Ever so big, with three
columns of decimals. Now she
will have to do the arithmetic
all over again. Thoughtless
child, and mummy’s so over-
worked,
“ ‘lt would be strange,’ says
Mr. Menzies, ‘should the United
Kingdom drive for exports
result in the purchase of scores
of thousands of English motor
vehicles in Australia, while the
sterling-dollar policy made it
impossible to secure adequate
petrol with which to run them.’
“No, sir, it would not be
strange. It would be strange if
centralised planning did not pro-
duce such anomalies and
absurdities. It would be more
than strange; it would be a
miracle. Good heavens, policies
can diverge in the length of a
street. What do you expect to
happen 12,000 miles away?
Every one of our cars exported
to Australia ought to contain in-
structions for jacking it up and
immobilising it. Don’t tell me
the planners forgot that little
detail. \Vell, I’m not surprised.
“A handful of men in London
are supposed to be competent to
determine the way of life of oyer
600 million people in the sterling
area, at the same time paying
regard to the uncontrollable and
unreasonable behavior of the rest
of the world. Is it surprising that
there is some friction at the
periphery? Is it surprising that a
disapproving cluck in London
sometimes fails to register in the
Antipodes?
“How does this cosmic plan-
ning work? Things are drawn
up in a rough order of priority
and then the total is cast. If it
is too large, and it inevitably is,
then there is some crude lopping,
plausible and reasonable in
appearance, but nevertheless
crude and arbitrary. First
priority is accorded to the plan
of the mother country. The rest
of the family are expected to fit
round that. And that’s where
mummy tries her mixture of
cajolery, nagging and bluff. ‘No,
young Aussie, you can’t have
American comics and chewing-
gum. A big boy like you! Be
your age!’
“ ‘Young Kiwi, mummy wants
you to send her all the butter
and mutton you can, then
mummy will put your sterling in
a nice big money-box and keep
it for you.’ ‘Young Springbok,
mummy wants you to send her
heaps and heaps of gold, and
she will be very disappointed if
you don’t.’ ‘Now then, young
Canuck, you can pull up all
those apple-trees in Ontario be-
cause mummy is going to get
apples from another shop. No,
mummy’s not interested in your
salmon canneries, and you
mustn’t bother her about your
timber, because mummy’s ever
so busy calling on Yugoslavia
and other important people. Be
sure to send over a lot of wheat
because mummy’s relying on
you.’
“Such is the amazing loyalty
and sentiment of the family that
up to now mummy has generally
had her own way. But think of
all the girls who have left home
because the ‘Mother knows best’
line was worked just a little too
long.”
Threat in Berlin.
Recalling that “At the time of
the Berlin air-lift everyone was
deeply concerned lest some in-
cident between the Russians and
the Western Powers should lead
to real trouble,” a London
“Financial Times” writer takes a
look into the crystal-ball and
finds it decidedly murky.
In fact he asserts that “the
position in Germany is even
more serious today” than it was
in the air-lift days:
“One of Lenin’s golden rules
for advancing Communism was
to launch a propaganda drive
and follow it up with street-
fighting. There seems to be no
doubt that the Russians and their
German puppets in the eastern
zone are now making sinister
preparations for an outbreak of
organised street - fighting in
Berlin in May.
“To use a Russian euphemism,
this will be a ‘spontaneous up-
rising of the working-classes.’
Plans for it are being laid with
great care. Fanatical youngsters,
from the age of 14 upwards, are
being trained in the use of
weapons, with the object of put-
ting them in the front-line in
case Anglo-American troops
should be ordered to use force
to prevent a Communist con-
quest of Berlin by street-
fighting.” ______
Truman Talks.
Sidelights of recent history
collected from President Truman
by “New York Times’s” Wash-
ington correspondent Arthur
Krock and officially released
for publication:
The President said that when,
with all goodwill toward the
Russian people and their rulers,
he went to Potsdam he planned
to offer help for reconstruction,
of Russia as well as the rest of
the world, on a very large scale.
He had remembered with pride
and sympathy how the Russians
had smashed the German armies
in the East, and he had believed
their assistance was necessary to
win the war against Japan. But
he found that all Stalin wanted
to talk about was the abrupt
cessation of lend-lease; hence
the atmosphere was unfavorable
to what he had had in mind.
He said that “To abolish lend-
lease at the time was a mistake.”
But he was “new” then; the
papers had been prepared for
Mr. Roosevelt, and represented
a Government decision. He felt
there was nothing else he could
do but sign. He had no staff
and no Cabinet of his own, as he
now had.
The agreement the Russians
made at Yalta to enter the war
against Japan, he said, was the
only one they ever kept of nearly
forty. He has no hope they
will keep any which now it
would be good policy to seek.
When the Russians, after the
Potsdam agreements, blocked
East-West trade he began to lose
the last vestige of hope that what
seemed so good a peace prospect
at San Francisco had survived.
General Marshall, he recalls,
came back from Moscow deeply
discouraged. And when Am-
bassador Bedell Smith reported
to the President from Moscow
that the Russians were carefully
concealing from the people all
facts about the war-assistance
the United States had given
them, and what its proposals
had been for joint reconstruction
of the world, that last vestige
disappeared.
The President said it would
have been the same in Japan as
in Germany if he had not de-
manded an American as the
Allied generalissimo there at the
signing of the surrender on the
Missouri. Otherwise the Russians
would have divided that country
as they have Germany; and the
situation in the Far East would
have been much worse than it is.
The real trouble with the
Russians, he said, is that they
are still suffering from a complex
of fear and inferiority where the
U.S. is concerned. If a Presiden-
tial election campaign had not
been in progress in 1948 he
would have sent Chief Justice
Vinson to try to straighten out
Stalin and the other Russian
leaders on this and on
America’s real intentions. May-
be, he conceded, that will be the
thing to do some time; but he
held that “in nothing must we
show any sign of weakness be-
cause there is none in our atti-
tude.”
He said he was reliably in-
formed that the Russians have
16,000,000 people in concentra-
tion camps. _____
Lucky Siam.
Some time back a London
“Times” correspondent was
quoted here as finding Siam an
oasis of peace in the seething
desert of Asian strife and
turmoil.
It still is, according to Far East
authority O. M. Green, in a
“Scotsman” article. Green de-
clares that the evil effects of the
war, which no Siamese ever
really wished to enter, and of
Japanese occupation, have been
overcome, and that the farmers,
who make up four-fifths of the
native population, were never so
well off as they are today.
“There have been Govern-
ment crises—notably that of a
year ago, when Army and Navy
for two or three days blazed off
a vast quantity of ammunition at
each other without damage to
either side.” Otherwise, in
Green’s view, everything in the
Siam garden is lovely, including
the rather thick undergrowth—
or overgrowth—of a Chinese
community widely estimated as
“from two to four million” in a
total population of abouf
17,500,000: Ut
“There is undoubtedly a
Chinese Communist party in
Siam. But so far the Chinese as
a whole have shown no special
signs of wishing to link up with
the conquerors of China, apart
from taking down Chiang Kai-
shek’s picture.
“The Siamese themselves have
not the slightest inclination to-
wards Communism, and in their
present comfortable state are
not very likely to develop one
Short of actual armed invasion
from China Siam seems fairly
secure against the ‘Red’ flood”
Russia in Manchuria.
Apparently recovered from
its first cheerfulness over the
Russian-Chinese Treaty of
friendship, mutual aid, etc., Lon-
don “Economist” features an
article by a correspondent who
would seem to have no illusions
about the treaty being a Chinese
triumph.
Moscow, he points out, has to
contemplate two adverse possi-
bilities: (1) That the Communist
regime in China will prove to
, be unstable and will be over-
thrown in some fresh civil war;
(2) that the Communist leader-
ship itself will, in time, develop
Titoist tendencies. In either case
a Manchuria fully under the
control of a Chinese central
Government located south of
the wall would be in danger of
passing out of the Russian
sphere of control:
“The language which Stalin
lumself used in announcing the
recovery of Port Arthur [in the
Yalta sell-out] suggests that a
real, as distinct from a nominal,
withdrawal of Soviet power
from that area is unthinkable.
On economic grounds, too, Man-
churia must be reckoned high
among Russian priority interests
—much higher than it was m
Tsarist or early Soviet policy.
With the building of a vast
defence system in eastern
Siberia, including the new bases
in the extreme north-east to-
wards Alaska, and the develop
ment of various supporting -
dustries on the Amur an
Pacific coast, Eastern Siberia has
become a foofc-deficiency are .
“It is, therefore, highly con
venient for the Russians to feeo
eastern Siberia from the foo
surplus of Manchuria, and mis
is now the main Soviet
stake there—in contrast o
Japanese concern with the
try, which they valued r a
a supplier of minerals
mainland armament base,
in a normal national econott^
at least on a . bas 1 1 ? china
economic nationalism d _
would use Manchuri d _
stuffs to supply lts So viet
deficiency areas. l ne


VOU 6
RT
J
)“I 1 ]
=sr2r
M
i i?lT> ru irtj iru -
.-n^-.-^r-^-
rrn
3-
■■
I
v^j>
r
amp
EpSi
i
i
« ■*
S'
r
When you enter a large city
building, you do not see the mani-
fold anxieties and strivings of the
tenants, each with his multiple
problems of income and outgo, of
shortages and late deliveries. You
do not see the spirit of enterprise
that keeps them going in these
difficult times.
And, of course, you do not see the
Bank, though it is there! Its dozen
and one services to its customers
are in the picture of most busi-
nesses, all the year round.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited is Banker to men
and companies in every industry
and service in Australia.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
M
fl-rt +o integrate the Man-
k irian economy with Siberia
r than with the rest of China
iat therefore be a permanent
tpntial cause of conflict be-
Peking and Moscow.
1 “The Russians now have till
, 1952 to see how things
theenuui
r?XJ
bMktLd
x
%. %
%
f
—Des Moines (U.S.A.) “Register.”
IS THE DRAGON GOING TO LIKE THAT?
turn out in China. If by the
end of that time there are any
signs either of collapse or of
anti-Russian insubordination in
the Chinese Communist regime,
a Soviet ‘Manchukuo’ can still
be set up in Manchuria instead
of fulfilling the renunciation
clauses of the recent treaty.
Meanwhile, the most can be
made politically of the treaty to
show how genuine and dis-
interested is Soviet friendship for
Asiatic national movements
which are not tainted by Ameri-
can dollars, and this will un-
doubtedly be a propaganda asset
of great value for the Com-
munists in south-east Asia and
India.
“Some Chinese, however, may
reflect that a promise to restore
is not the same thing as actual
restoration; and a few will re-
member that in 1902 Russia
undertook to withdraw by speci-
fied dates forces then in occupa-
tion of Manchuria, but that the
agreement reached was not
kept.”
Indian Constitution.
Answering critics who have
described the new Indian consti-
ution as “not only conservative
out reactionary,” London
Economist” contends that “An
instrument which, at one stroke,
ranchises 160 million men and
tn?. m u n u-T W^c k abolishes ‘un-
chabihty,’ which declares all
citizens irrespective of
race, caste or sex—to
equal before the law, can by
S |, s K etch of meaning be de-
ovpred.uas reacti °nary. More-
witu’, P n P rece dented ease
h which it can be amended —
liamem °' th i lrds ma i° rit y in Par-
an( L’ m tbe Case some
Lin ISlO . ns ’ by a simple majority
daruw S Xt witb an almost
dangerous mutability.
Promkp const i tuti °n is a com-
of Fa*/ n °J oldy between ideas
other and . West, but between
Corrmr« Ol^Stltutiona i examples.
posh,An T u is evident in the
the Am tbe Preside nt. Like
elected Ll Can Pres Went he is
the ’. he «*fter he assumes
monarch X h° f the • British
Powers o bas constitutional
emergencies ° U f ltin \ in certain
suspend rV he right to
He Canada l ° f the constitution.
t 0 Parliampn? 5 ?> r Se . nd messages
the President' • m all thin gs,
t 0 act nnLu 18 ’ by convention.
Ministers the advice of his
in appears
fights Tt^ ler u° n fundamental
- Lt *§ here, and in the
directive principles of State
policy, that the impress of
Mahatma Gandhi is most clear,
These chapters include the
abolition of ‘untouchability,’ the
organisation of village pan-
chayats, the promotion of cot-
tage industries: they declare the
right to work, to a living wage,
and to equal pay for equal
work: they direct the State to
endeavor to prohibit consump-
tion of intoxicants anck cattle
slaughter.”
London “Daily Telegraph’s”
correspondent at Delhi is not so
sanguine about the presidential
powers, noting that: “Under
Britain’s unwritten constitution
the King is now presumed to
act always on the advice of
Ministers who are themselves
responsible ultimately to Parlia-
ment.
“In India’s written constitution
there is actually no clause to
compel the President always to
act on such advice. There is
merely a presumption that he
will do so on the analogy of
Britain, but a presumption under
a written constitution cannot
have the same force as in an un-
written one.”
Also at variance with the
“Economist” on one point is Sir
Ivor Jennings, a constitutional
authority and Vice-Chancellor
of the University of Ceylon,
Writing in the “Manchester
Guardian,” Jennings particularly
notes of the new constitution that
“it will not be easy to amend it.”
After listing his reasons for
that opinion Jennings goes on to
discuss a possible source of
future trouble in the distribu-
tion of legislative powers be-
tween the States and the cen-
tral Union Government: “As
well as a list of legislative
powers within the exclusive
authority of the Union, and
a State list within the ex-
clusive authority of the State,
there is also a concurrent list
within the competence of both —
Union legislation prevailing in
the event of repugnancy. There
have been some additions to the
Union list, but most of the addi-
tions have been to the con-
current list, and some of them
use vague language like
‘economic and social planning’
and ‘employment and unemploy-
ment.’ ” ‘
The difficulty then, as com-
pared with the comparatively
simple procedure to determine
Dominion and provincial powers
in Canada, or State and Com-
monwealth powers in Australia,
is to find whether a power is in
the Union list, the State list or
the concurrent list, “and then (if
it is within the concurrent list)
whether the Union legislation is
repugnant to State legislation.
The addition of vague formulae
to the concurrent list therefore
adds immensely to the difficulty
of interpretation.
“But India has gone farther by
adding 12 pages of fundamental
liberties whose interpretation
will be difficult. Since liberties
are always relative, restrictions
have been imposed, and four
times in one section the phrase
‘reasonable restrictions’ is used.
What is ‘reasonable’ inevitably
varies with the length of the
judge’s foot. There is, too,
‘freedom of speech and expres-
sion,’ but ‘the State’ may make
any law relating to ‘libel, slander,
defamation, contempt of court,
or any matter which offends
against decency or morality or
which undermines the security
of, or tends to overthrow, the
State.’ Even Hitler would have
accepted that.
“Roughly speaking the State
has power over what in England
would be classed as local govern-
ment —including police and
prisons, public health and edu-
cation —and over internal trade
and communications. The con-
current list includes the greater
part of the civil and criminal law
and civil and criminal procedure,
but it also includes most of the
social services (other than edu-
cation) and ‘economic and social
planning.’
“The remaining powers, ex-
pressed in subjects, are vested
exclusively in the Union, which
has the residual power, though
the Union list is long and de-
tailed. This division into three
lists has' complicated the ques-
tion of the taxing power, which
is in any case inevitably difficult
in a federation. The Union will
levy income tax (except on agri-
cultural income), death duties
(except on agricultural land),
Customs duties, excise duties
(except on alcohol and nar-
cotics), capital and corporation
taxes and most of the stamp
duties. Some of these taxes,
though levied by the Union, must
be assigned to the States, while
income tax will be divided be-
tween the Union and the States:
but even in these cases the Union
may levy a surcharge for Union
purposes, and there is apparently
no restriction on the amount of
the surcharge.”
The London “Daily Tele-
graph” writer is not very hopeful
about how the new Republic will
fare under its new constitution —
“It is in the highest degree un-
likely that an orderly Western
system of party government will
develop in India. Universal suf-
frage and almost universal
illiteracy do not go together. In
a land of hero-worshippers it will
be the heroes, whether of the
Right or of the Left, who will
count.” On this the “Econo-
mist’s” view is: “The seeds of
disruption, as well as of unity
and stability, are already planted
deep, and are germinating.
Which will prevail and which
will be weeded out will not
depend on the constitution, but
on the people of India and the
character they show; on the edu-
cated few who fashioned this
constitution, and the unlettered
many whose hands will work
and may change it.”
Dragnet Digest.
Hope for the Nullarbor ?—ltalian
Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs
Giuseppe Brusasca speaking: “If
Italy shows that it can turn a preva-
lently nomadic area of scarce natural
resources like Somalia into an
orderly, modern, self-supporting
State, Italy will acquire an incon-
testable right to use its workers and
industrial products in the social and
economic organisation of the other
depressed areas of the world. All
those who are now going into
Somalia will gain experience in the
tropics that will enable them to
become qualified workers in the ex-
ploitation of other African areas and
in similar zones in the Americas, in
Asia and in Australia.”
* * * *
Sweden Stays Out.—Stating that
Swedish policy is not built on the
assumption that war is inevitable,
Foreign Minister Unden lately gave
the following as his country’s present
stand: “We do not wish to conduct
a foreign policy that would con-
tribute to turning our corner of the
world into a centre of unrest and a
point of friction between East and
West. By joining a military great-
Power bloc Sweden would not affect
to any considerable degree either the
general policies of the leading Powers
or the balance of power between
them. Nor does Sweden imagine
herself to be able to contribute to
any bridge-building between the two
great-Power groups now existing.”
* * * *
Russian ‘Tourntt/'-Declaring that
fresh reports have reached the U.S.
State Department that important
Soviet military preparations are going
forward in the Balkans, the ‘‘Scots-
man” (Edinburgh) reports yet an-
other Kremlin plagiarising of the late
Adolf: “The arrival in Bulgaria of
Russians in civilian clothes has at-
tracted special attention. There is
said to be a substantial ‘invasion,’
recalling the war-time invasions of
neutral countries by German ‘tour-
ists.’ The assumption is made that
these are, in reality, Red Army
shock troops, or else specialists.”
Also, “Fresh effervescence is ob-
served by U.S. sources in Macedonia,
Marshal Tito has felt the need to
refer to it several times lately. The
assumption is that a Macedonian up-
rising against the Tito regime,
fomented from Bulgarian soil and
supported by partisans, who are, in
fact, Russians, may be in prospect.”
* * * *
Poor Zhukov. —The recent Soviet
“election” lists (notes a London
“Sunday Times” correspondent) con-
firmed “the complete eclipse of Mar-
shal Zhukov,” of the Berlin-blockade
fiasco. In 1946 lists he was the lead-
ing military candidate; his name
was not mentioned once in this year’s
“elections.” This the correspondent
interprets as confirming earlier re-
ports that Zhukov’s “extreme popu-
larity in the Army displeased the
Kremlin.” A much more likely in-
terpretation would seem to be one
writing him down as the outstanding
casualty, of the West’s greatest actual
niH°yh uVnv ic nrnhnhlv
air ‘b? t - Poor old Zhukov is probably
walking or haunting, Sibena in the
shape of a scapegoat,
* * * *
Billingsgate Is Off. —Admitting, in
a London “Spectator” article, that
the whole machinery of international
negotiation has now almost com-
pletely broken down (on a rock that
needs no naming), Harold Nicolson
holds, in effect, that it’s no use try-
ing to counter with Billingsgate. As
he sees it: “The Russians today do
not desire to inspire confidence: they
desire to inspire alarm. They do not
aim at good relations: they wish to
maintain a condition of septic dis-
trust....We cannot hope to change
the Russians: all we can do is not
to change ourselves. Any imitation
on our part of the methods now
practised by those behind the cur-
tain would be a clumsy and futile'
imitation; there would always come
a point when we were unable to bluff
or behave as outrageously as they.
Our only course is for ourselves to
maintain the old principles and the
old methods in the face of every
provocation. In the end they must
prevail; since they are demonstrably
correct. We should always remember
that there may come a time when the
Russians actually want to believe and
to be believed.”


fWrw* *
■
I
mm
ill
Ss>
■■
r »-
W I
,«#asawßsj
£1
If the road had springs you couldn’t get a
smoother, softer ride than you get on Super-
Cushions.
Super-Cushions, exclusive to Goodyear, are the
new kind of tyres that give a new kind of ride . . .
bigger softer tyres that soak up jolts, resist bruises
and cuts. Super-Cushions will fit your present
wheels, so, see your Goodyear Dealer now.
EVERYTHING A TYRE CAN DO
DOES BETTER!
Here's how Super-Cushions out-
perform conventional tyres:
Softer, Smoother, Safer Ride . , .
Quicker Stops . . , Greater Traction
Easier Steering ... Less Driving Fatigue
Better Looking . . . Fewer Rattles and
Car Repairs ... More Car Economy
ail this and GREATER
MILEAGE. TOO!
MORE PEOPLE.
THE WORLD OVER,
RIDE ON GOODYEAR TYRES
THAI ON ANY OTHER MAKE
K 39
g
THE “STERLING” ROUTE
, 'v:i ■’ ■■ ;&* •' 0
TO ENGLAND
via the colourful East
fg
SINGAPORE
CAIRO
ROME
on free conducted tours.
fgf
g
ALL. THESE
EXTRAS AT
NO EXTRA
COST
f
X
ears
'/>ntf/vssjj?
• Sight-seeing tours of Singapore,
Cairo and Rome included
your fare.
• Modern transport, hotel accom-
modation and first class m
. at overnight stops.
• First-class steward and hostess
service—excellent meals s
hot in the air.
• No currency problems.
what you wish on this ste g
route.
Luxurious air-conditioned 9°” S mere
tions speed you to Londo ver
4 days .... or you ca f ar e.
wherever you wish no See
Four services weekly each
your travel agent.
D*E"A and B'O’Aj
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS ' n
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS COR?
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
v v v
“Champagne, whisky, brandy and
other drinks may still be had under
Britain’s health scheme —if the doctor
accepts the risk of having to pay
for them.”
Medicos will shout if they are
caught.
•b *b *b, ,
“Men have almost completely lost
their prejudice against women enter-
ing politics.”— “Women’s Weekly.”
But Dr. Evatt found one hard
to put up with.
*b *b *b
“Furnished or unfurnished flat or
flatette wanted by couple marrying in
April. Apply Mr. Boots, 6th floor.”
—Suburban paper.
Walk-in, walk-out basis,
naturally.
•J# ,
“Mougin, now a fully-pledged
welter, will complete his preparation
for the Delaney.”
—Sydney “Daily Mirror.”
A boxer of great promise.
4* + 4*
“Lost, opert-faced gent.’s gold
watch, Kenneth-street telephone box,
Saturday, April 1. Reward.”
—Suburban paper.
On return to Mr. Frank.
•b *b
“He was stabled three times in the
chest.” —Sydney “Sun” court report.
But didn’t forestall his
attacker.
•b *b *b
“Fish is dearer to buy than meat
because cost of catching fish has in-
creased immeasurably in the past 10
years.” —Melbourne “Argus.”
But there is still a nice net
profit.
•b *b *b
“A bootmaker has been fined for
working after hours.”
He’s still on his uppers.
Fixing His Clock.
“When her small son swallowed
the works of her wrist-watch, his
mother was assured by doctors that
everything would be right in time.”
—Sunday paper.
Small boys, it seems, must
emulate
The billygoat that loves to
swallow
Old cans or fragments of a plate
With books and magazines to
follow.
And so we find them munching
pins
Or masticating bottle-stoppers
Eked out by lids of smaller tins
And buttons, marbles, treys or
copperp.
But wouldn’t he whose watch-
filled turn
Was given hopes of final heal-
ing
At least feel sure his hour had
come
And suffer from a run-down
feeling ?
D. H. E.
Postponed.
A treasure-questing syndicate,
In which we’d pooled our
dough,
Had only fust been formed when
Fate
Upset our plans, and so
Our treasure-hunt we must defer
Till we hunt down our treasurer.
B. B.
Disqualified.
The foreigner, who’d failed to
find
Sufficient English to be fed,
Reached for the menu, but, in-
stead.
Picked up a race-card left behind.
He pointed there to what, of
course,
He fondly hoped would prove
good food.
Whereat the waitress got quite
rude —
“You cow!’’ she yelled. “We
don’t serve horse.’’
BRIAN BUREAU.
Diary of a Work-watcher.
Monday: Day started off dis-
appointingly. Wandered around
for some time, startling absence
of hard work being performed.
Happened to be passing foot-
path manhole when two men
from P.M.G.’s telephone branch
pulled up in truck and started
unloading gear. Kept waiting un-
conscionable time before they
started. . Had taken up good
position at near-by shop-window
"Now —wasn't that a smoother take-off than in the old
model?"
getting ready to watch them
straining themselves to lift heavy
concrete manhole-lid when lot of
confounded pedestrians streamed
between workmen and me, com-
pletely blocking view. By time
they had passed lid was off.
They then placed canvas struc-
ture around hole. Peered over
top for half an hour but could
see only shoulders and head of
workman, bending over maze of
multicolored wires. Got quite
a stiff neck.
Thought show would brighten
when workman below callec
mate to pass down blowlamp
Moved up closer to see him
pump-up and light, but fellow
got in truck to do it. Coulc.
only hear hiss. Hide of some
workmen! When he handed it
down I shifted canvas cover to
get better look and workman oi
top roared out coarsely for me
to “beat it.” Further up street
came on electricity workmen
about to manhandle huge reel o'
heavy cable prior to feeding it
into open tunnel. Waited 40
minutes while they stood about
for someone to give them in-
structions. Then they all went
to lunch. Pidn’t see one man
spit on hands all day.
Tuesday : Watched tramway
track-repair gang at work for
three hours. Way they had to
strain to lift rails on to sleepers
and hammer in spikes caused me
to perspire quite freely. Thrill
when laborer let heavy drawbar
fall on ganger’s foot. Lot
of morbid rubbernecks standing
near me surged forward to get
better look and nearly pushed
me out of possie I’d got right
alongside injured man. When
excitement over, officious cop
began moving everyone on. In-
dignantly protested, pointed out
one couldn’t properly watch
people work whilst moving
along.
Wednesday: Got up early to
get good gutterside stand at the
excavations for the big new
chain-store. As well as old
regulars noticed a few tyros.
Easily tell them by pop-eyed
stare, as if working is something
wonderful. One doesn’t develop
real blase air till one has been
watching it for years. This will
be my eighth chain-store excava-
tion job—a record, I modestly
claim. After four hours returned
for lunch, change of boots and
bathe eyes reddened f by dust
from activities of bulldozers.
General public couldn’t realise
hardships suffered by workmen-
watchers in their chosen avoca-
tion.
Struck me, on returning
for shorter afternoon session,
what utter lack of consideration
contractors have for those with-
out whose silent encouragement
and interest in the men doing the
work the whole building trade
would rapidly fall into disfavor.
After all, it needed only a few
workers detailed off with water-
ing-cans to greatly minimise the
dust menace to lookers-on, who
are in the unfortunate, position
of being debarred from compen-
sation claims for “dusted” lungs.
Thursday : Positively fagged
out, not so much physically as
mentally, after full day watching
workman operating pneumatic-
drills while breaking-up concrete
road. Had to cease exacting
day at 3 p.m. with splitting head-
ache. Very friendly team,
though. One man, whom I
thought a bit of a showman, as
he seemed deliberately (knowing
I was watching him keenly) to
make his arm-muscles vibrate in
time with the drill, asked
me twice if I thought he was
doing it good enough for my
liking. Rather nice compliment
to my extensive experience T
thought. Assured him he wali
almost. dS
After I had been there nniu
two and a half hours anofi
man invited me in to try Z
drill out saying he
sure I could do it better than h?
Thanked him for offer, but told
h ™ I; considered he might do all
right if he kept at it long enough
Friday: From this week’s
reading;
Break, break, break,
AH the biggest stones for me
And may there be no sneaking
to a bar
When I put out to see!
They also serve who only
stand and wait: Who only stand
and wait! I like that! Can’t
understand what Milton was
thinking of. Can only assume
that in his barbarous time every-
one was silly enough to work
leaving nobody to look on.
Bo.
Good on the Draw.
“Christian, morality can suffer just
as much from the Wild West as from
Mae West.” —Sydney ‘‘Sunday Sun.”
Way back in early silent days
Small boys would sit enthralled
and gaze
While cowboys with a quarrel
just
Made hordes of redskins bite the
dust;
And modern youth with blood-
lust stirred \
Has undeniably preferred
The Western film with pistols
cracking
To better shows in bloodshed
lacking.
Such forms of entertainment call
For disapproval from us all;
But surely not a single lad
Saw anything to make him bad
In films depicting gorgeous Mae.
In fact, the fans, it’s safe to say,
Who packed her screenings like
a swarm
Came merely for the sake of
form.
BERT.


iY |T . Divorce Notice.
« «?o P ., “ w
as filed a petition E f SA .pLUTTERBUCK
of 1960 on thp « f I dlvorce No. 1231
° u * just cause £ of desertion with-
and upwards if v^ cus . efor three years
Sfy enter an annpnt 3 WISh • to defend you
SuptlZ rT, m J he DivoTCe
by the 2fit v l oo i lrt Kin S Street
l 9 .f° and obtain f th day of - ] une a.d.
ithout charge f mm c ' the petition
l r C 0;. St. James Z-ih? IC N ‘ R °WLEY
l£eet SydneTwr m ,H lng ; 107 Elizabeth
Registrar i n Divorce 0 J ' DOU °HAN,
Australia’s Own Joy Nichols
m
-X.,.
now starring in London's stage ,
radio and television says:
"Small's Club Chocolate
is my favourite -as snappy
as a Danny Kaye gag "
“I’m lucky enough to get Small’s
Chocolate sent me from Australia. Each
block of Small’s Club Chocolate breaks
with such a clear SNAP that shows
it’s good chocolate. Then there’s that
wonderful not-so-sweet flavour mm!
Small’s is the best chocolate I’ve ever
tasted.”
Any chocolate expert will tell you
that the louder the snap, the better the
chocolate. Small’s Club Chocolate breaks
with the loudest, cleanest snap of all.
gf
Small's
make Great Chocolate
The louder the snap the better the chocolate!
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The A J.C. should be happy enough
about its Autumn meeting, which
wound up on Saturday at Randwick.
S o Jones made a commendably
S job of the weather though the
Sing was heavy on all four days,
visiting U.S. jockey Johnny Longden
was a star turn on his own. Two classy
Sets, U* brilliant True Course
and the sound stayer Playboy, kept
un the prads’ end of it. There were
big crowds and some nice bits ot
riding and it would be hard to find
cleaner racing. The Doncaster, for
instance, was the cleanest-run that
present onlooker had ever seen.
Longden, having ridden indus-
triously through the previous Satur-
day and Monday in Melbourne for
one solitary second placing and an
awful lot of nowheres, made his
Randwick debut last Wednesday.
And loud were the echoes thereof.
To begin with, he must have gone
out for his first ride just about stone
deaf from the shouting (vocal). It
was a wondrous sight to see the
gentlemen of the members’ stand
hanging out by their gold watch-
chains from the balconies, hands
clapping, diaphragms flapping; a la
bobbysox. Over on the Flat the
hoi-polloi: “Good old Johnny!”,
“Good on yer, Johnny!”, “Don’t
stand up on him like that, Johnny—
you’ll fall off!”
That, of course, was to be expected;
celebrity-appeal and all that. More
to the point was the ovation he got
after the ride. It was tremendous,
spontaneous, and as good as unani-
mous. In fact, any heathen sinner
must have thought he’d brought
home a red-hot favorite instead of the
12-to-l shot The Groom. It was
good sporting spirit; no doubt with
some sympathy in it for Longden
himself.
Up to that point, Longden could
have gone home feeling that there
wasn’t much wrong with the sports-
manship Down Under. Instead, he’d
have some justification for going
back talking of squealing, it having
subsequently been implied, in print,
that his win was an act of “chivalry.”
Longden’s travelling companion, him-
self a newspaperman, commented:
“In America we learn to lose just as
graciously as we win.”
Wrapped up in transparency, the
charge appeared in Sydney “Daily
Telegraph.” Lasl Saturday, at Rand-
wick, the “Telegraph” columnist was
asked over the loud-speakers to go
to the stewards’ room, where he and
“n C T 6 » (whose firth publishes the
«iT T’ and .who * s part-owner of
the beaten Dickens) were both ques-
tioned. The action resulted from
insistence on an inquiry by the
jockeys, represented by Cook, who
rode Dickens. Packer made no com-
plaint about Cook’s handling of
uickens; the stewards were unani-
mous that no exception could be
aken to the riding of any of the
jockeys. With the report of the
|"r y i ent on t 0 the A.J.C. com-
ntee, the matter, at time of writing,
m a state of suspended
animation.
Meanwhile, apart from the fact that
witLn? rt ° f ch - arge can be heard >
thp t? Ut P rec . autlon ary innuendo, in
nifl„ f - arn comin g home from any race-
wnrihl8 ’ ° ne -j or two P o j nts seem
tfpwiLe coasiderin g- The A.J.C.
stationed at their different
saw nrfu 86 P° mts around the course,
!* nohlng wrong, though, with only
been * unne . rs > there couldn’t have
the rW eaSler race t 0 watch. Also,
fleam c . om Pletely overlooks signi-
ofm,imd smgularl y repetitive history
of p £cent dat e. In the big field
The r Epsoi 2 - mde on October 1
the 6 finished nineteenth; in
Georne a i/r be d c °f the mile w.f .a.
he heat Stakes on October 3
brook haif UCh , a good ’ n as Bern-
third jf.ngth, with Foxzami
caster mil tEe blg field °f the Don-
finished t ° n , A P rii Bhe again
den un mnete£nth ’ then, with Long-
mile w P f a a u he s J mall field °f the
12 he hem um Cd Stakes on April
a length 3t „ three-quarters of
you & Dlcke ns third. Still,
read > 0 r heed history. “ 3 hUrry t 0
stews' arecootpS' u° SUBgest that
0n or boatraces rowed
cash basis °, n °ther than a hard-
anyone a whn [ USt pla “) funn y- Also,
making tu WS Rand wick book-
The Groom tha l one decent bet on
Price down eve U d u have brou ght his
The fact bere with a bang.
10 to 1 went aS to t m t he °P ene d at
there. ’At to and stayed
r inat he was second out-
sider in the field of seven. Not one
decent bet was recorded as having
been laid against The Groom; what
was put on him was all small shot.
Nor was any alleged s.p. clean-up
reported. Nobody made a brass
razoo out of it. All just charity;
sympathy; kindness of heart. How
they have softened!
One other point—the supposed
slow time. What this amounts to is
that the track was like that; every
race that day—even the dazzling True
Course’s Champagne Stakes—was run
in similar comparably slow time:
George Rowe Handicap, 7f., Careless,
1.271 (course record, 1.22); Point
Piper Handicap, 7f., Validas, 1.271
(course record, 1.22); Champagne
Stakes, 6f., True Course, 1.121 (course
record, 1.10); All-aged Stakes, Im.,
The Groom, 1.39 (course record,
I. Bronte Handicap, 11m. *
Kymac, 2.9 (course record, 2.11);
Cumberland Stakes, lira., Playboy,
3.21 (course record, 2.55); City
Handicap, 11m., Lordly, 2.391 (course
record, 2.29). If that doesn’t scotch
the time theory, we’ll go hopping to
Greenwich.
Obviously, on the day’s times the
All-aged Stakes was very truly run ;
as it could hardly have helped being,
with Lord Moss tearing off to a long
lead and Pantomime going after him.
Lord Moss made the pace as fast as
the track allowed to the turn; then
Longden, who had The Groom first
out of the starting-gate, and had rid-
den him in model style in third place,
let his mount stretch out. A few
strides from the'winning-post Longden
stopped riding and The Groom
eased, making it look as if Achilles
and Dickens were finishing faster
than him. And that’s about all there
is to the Longden cause celebre.
On The Groom Longden looked
a fine little rider, something after
the Darby Munro style, though with-
out showing, since he didn’t have to
show, the Darby vigor in the finish.
Longden has as nice a balance as you
could set eyes on; crouched right
down in the mane with his back
almost perfectly flat —a very neat bit
of streamlining. As for his riding
very short, Long Tack Sam would
ride just as short if he had legs as
short as Longden’s.
So much for that. Then, next race,
out came Longden on another sort
of horse—and oh Johnny, oh Johnny,
heavens ab-ove! The neddy’s name
was Dizzy, and nothing quite like
what happened has been told in song
or story since Tennyson smote the
lyre and W. E. Gladstone vent his
ire around the other headstrong
Dizzy. Suffice it to say that Johnny
piloted Dizzy—or vice versa. It was
a sort of elopement.
By far the best on that memorable
Wednesday at Randwick, and for the
meeting altogether, was the Mel-
bourne-owned filly True Course’s
completing of her Sires’ Produce-
Champagne Stakes double. In the
six-furlongs Champagne she lumped
9.4, with a 101 b. penalty in it; was
well back (as she was in the Sires’
Produce) till they got to the straight;
■at the Leger still had to bullock her
way through a bunch of several of
them; did it, and beat them point-
less. She has a distinctly angled near
foreleg, which could possibly get her
into bother, though it didn’t when
she was coming through them. A
dunnish brown, she is slenderly con-
structed, but deep, and must develop;
and already she’s running her races
like a stayer.
The Champagne Stakes completed
the sorry chapter on this year’s colts.
True Course gave Karangi, Hundi
and Beau Gene 91b. apiece, and they
weren’t even placed; two other
fillies, Ragazza and Even Flow, fol-
lowing True Course home. True
Course and Even Flow are Mid-
streams; Ragazza, a daughter of Le
Grand Due, seems one to keep an
eye on.
Carbon Copy being nowhere near
what he was this time last year, The
Buzzard-Home Bird three-year-old
chestnut colt Playboy stood out as
the w.f.a. stayer of the meeting. His
wins over the mile-and-three-quarters
course in both the St. Leger and
Cumberland Stakes were effortless.
That same great sire of stayers,
The Buzzard, received just as good
a boost on the Monday of the Rand-
wick meeting; his four-year-old bay
son Sir Falcon finely winning the rich
Sydney Cup with a genuine stayer’s
finish at the end of the two miles.
Hurry Up was a close second; Hoyle
third. Persist ran quite a good race,
and one day something better will be
seen of Golden Bird.
J. Thompson, seen at his very good
best on Sir Falcon in the Cup, also
won the first and last that day—the
six-furlongs two-year-old Wentworth
Handicap on topweight Beau Gene
(Genetout-Anbeau) and the 10-fur-
longs Coogee Handicap on Marine
Victory. Then Thompson headed for
Ireland, to do his riding there for a
while. Quite one of the classiest of
Sydney riders, he’s a clean goer,
always keeps himself in tip-top nick,
and, being tall, probably rides more
in the Old Country style than any-
body else hereabouts. He should do
exceptionally well.
Of the Melbourne jockeys present
at Randwick, far the most striking to
the eye was W. Williamson. His
first Sydney ride was a winner—on
True Course. He looks every bit as
grimly determined as his remarkable
record on two-year-olds and others
in Melbourne would suggest. The
grim effect was no doubt mostly pro-
duced by the grimness of owner A. R.
Creswick’s colors: black, dark blue
sash, black cap. Seeing that and
Williamson’s set white face cutting
through amidst them with the flying
True Course under him, the others
could have thought they’d come up
against one of the Four Horsemen.
Another good Melbourne rider, R.
Hutchinson, got a two-months outing
for performing more roughly than
the stewards cared for on Perform.
B. Smith copped a like dose for doing
likewise on Lordly, favorite in a
race Marine Victory won. Without
excusing Hutchinson, who did go up
a bit sharply, he seemed to have
copped it comparatively hot. Any-
way, the racing altogether was the
best-controlled seen in a long time.
* * * *
On past sound proof that he’s a
genuine stayer, Hurry Up was this
page’s choice for the Cup. He con-
firmed the opinion, not only by his
splendid Cup run, but even more by
emulating The Groom (this page’s
Doncaster pick) with a subsequent
good win at w.f.a. In the 2*m.
“Someone's spoiled a damned good rug , Ponsonby."
A.J.C. Plate last Saturday, Hurry
Up downed the remarkably improved
Vagabond, with Snowstream third.
In the Cup, Hurry Up had 7.13; in
the w.f.a. race, 9.1. Which, like The
Groom’s performances, repeats once
more that w.f.a. form is, as it ever
has been, one of the riskiest things
in the game to be rash about.
The Melbourne invasion missed
out with Happy Medium in the
Adrian Knox Stakes, won nicely by
the Brueghel filly Elusive. The colts
had a turn for a change with Aristo-
crat winning the first two-year-old
mile of the season, the Fernhill
Handicap. Still, the fact that Aristo-
crat had 7.7 and the Nizami filly
Niaranga topweight of 9.5 wasn’t
altogether flattering. Marine Victory
completed a double of wins.
* * * *
In Melbourne racing, while the
limelight was on the big Randwick
meeting, about the most noteworthy
feature was the use made of that
grand filly Chicquita. Her latest two
defeats were by Star Port at seven
furlongs on the Saturday, then, two
days later, by Plovarius at l£m.
After which it was given out that
she would be allowed a spell.
Home again from his clean-up on
True Course at Randwick, W.
Williamson added to his remarkable
record on two-year-olds by vigorously
getting the Yorkshire Hussar colt
Bugle Boy up in the nick of time to
snatch the Orrong Handicap from
Clutha and Weka at Caulfield on
Saturday. Patron, a flop at his
previous start when ridden by Long-
den, went very differently for Ken
Smith to down Kintail and Ailsa in
the seven-furlongs Neerim Handicap.
It should be interesting to watch how
others of Longden’s many Melbourne
failures fare next time out; Beau
Gem in particular.
Now somewhat long in the tooth,
Binnia Gift was still too good for
Chilperic, Saxony and other distance
performers in the 12-furlongs Glen-
huntly; a turn-up for the books.
Other Caulfield winners on Saturday:
Metro Star (Hurdle), Carnage (South
Yarra Handicap sprint), and Spear-
flame (mile Kooyong Handicap).
* * * *
True Course’s treble of both
V.R.C. and AJ.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes and the Champagne Stakes
puts her in very select company.
Also it makes her the top prize-
winning filly of her age at any time
in Australia; a comment both on her
fine quality and on the size of present-
day prizemoney; the Randwick hand-
out for the four days, for instance
(comprising £56,500 added money,
£11,275 forfeits and sweepstakes, and
the £5OO Sydney Cup), totalled
£68,275, of which True Course’s
whack was £8344.
* * * *
The first three days of the yearling
sales in Sydney last week cracked all
records, 333,425 guineas being paid for
485 youngsters. Midstreams, natur-
ally, raked the guineas in by the
bushel. Longden paid 4000 guineas
for one of them, a filly from Tittle
Tattle, so hence direct back to
Magpie, and 950 guineas for a Del-
ville Wood filly from The Countess,
thus coming down from Carbine on
both sides. They’re to race here.
* * * *
This year’s Onkaparinga Cup lured
a record crowd of close on 70,000
out through the Adelaide hills. They
saw the Helios four-year-old gelding
Worando win the Cup in comfortable
style and Parilla’s Pride collect the
much more richly endowed Great
Eastern Steeplechase.
* * * *
Bookmakers’ runners aren’t sup-
posed to operate at Randwick any
more; so it was just like old times
to see ’em at it, as brash and bulky
and brisk as ever —and inside the
members’ stand at that!
* * * ♦
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) :
Nursery Handicap: Ajanni, 1;
Lassie White, 2; Happy May, 3.
J uvenile Handicap: Smog, 1; Beau
Gene, 2; Daksha, 3. Members’
Handicap: King’s Coin, 1; Pyramid,
2; Beau China, 3. Novice: Gayriol,
1; Ferocious Lass, 2; Susan Gay, 3.
Denham Stakes: Blu« Flag, 1; Great
Trek, 2; Bungymun, 3. City Tatter-
sail’s Handicap: Persist, 1; Frontal
Attack, 2; Indian Chief, 3. Welter:
Fra Diavolo, 1; Deed, 2; Duke of
Syke, 3.
* * * *
In the opening round of Rugby
Union in Sydney last Saturday, Easts
beat St. George, 13-1.1. The match
was hardly a good exhibition of foot-
ball, as play was continually jolted
by bad handling and rule infringe-
ments. Interest was held, however,
by the closeness of the scores. The
St. George forwards, who were ob-
viously coached to feed their three-
quarters, failed to see the uselessness
of this policy against a side whose
breakaways stood off from rucks and
lineouts. They set their back line
the impossible task of eight men
beating six. St. George were most
dangerous, and, in fact, scored their
two tries, when, more by force of
circumstances than by planned attack,
the forwards took the ball through
on the toe. Continued efforts in this
line would have produced more re-
sults. In other matches Gordon
beat Manly, Norths beat Drummoyne,
Eastwood beat Parramatta, and
Wests surprisingly beat the highly-
rated University team. Randwick had
the bye.
* * * *
This year’s Stawell Easter Gift was
a gift indeed—for Queensland
sprinter Ken Trewick. He’d been
fairly pitched in with a 10-yards
start, and went out at 10-to-l on for
the final, the hottest favorite ever.
He won easily, though he’d first had
to survive a mass protest by a score
of semifinalists. His entry-form,
alleged to be incomplete, was adjudi-
cated o.k.
* * * *
An air-mail London “Times” pic-
ture of the finish of what the “Times”
emphatically calls The Boatrace
shows Cambridge once more com-
fortably defeating Oxford, and also
shows that they still stick to the old
poppets, long discarded hereabouts in
favor of swivels. Australians involved
were C. B. M. Lloyd (Shore) for
Cambridge and G. C. Fisk (Geelong)
for Oxford.
A feature of the Cambridge-Oxford
clash or splash was the revival by
the Leander Club of its Eve of the
Boat Race dinner, with eminent Aus-
tralian export Lord Bruce (club presi-
dent) in the chair. Stanley Mel-
bourne, as he’s still fondly known
hereabouts, not only rowed in the
victorious 1904 Cambridge crew, but
subsequently proved as fine a coach
as he was an oar, up till 1919 train-
ing both the Trinity Hall and Cam-
bridge crews.


** Phenovls " Worm Remedy
I nching time H
time!
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
gf
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
*O%
g
PHE-2-X-8191
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes and Eyelidr
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A. Boss &Co.Pty.Ltd. KlmSt.SyJnay
>
Mr. Man-on-the-lanfl.
Ask yourself-"
which Pastoral Company
• has always made Service t® V
its first object?
has kept pace with your great Industry*
requirements for 87 years?
• has staffed its organisation "!
men alive to your interests/
offers you the best facilities *° r J e 0 f
wool, fat stock and hides.
merchandise, matters of . Bsurfl ßee7
management, agistment an
The answer to all questions Is-
-87 Yean in the Service of the Man on the land
SSTiir lie
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE »■
Head Office for Australia: 4 Bligb Street, Sydney*
Melbourne and Brisbane. Young, Co
Country Branches: — -NJH.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Deni«;
Scone, Moree. Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarnna, pirranbana.
Q’land: Townsville, Charleville, St. George, Qakey> palby ?{y >
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., To yeness &
Pittsworth, Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba. H. P- > e
Ltd., Wintoa. Vic.: Wodonga, Korumburra.
lA.M.L'.|J
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
BEEF CATTLE AT SYDNEY SHOW.
“Bulago”: Rain that interfered
with judging, took the “perm”
out of the cattle’s coats and
drenched spectators failed to
dampen their enthusiasm for one
of the best shows on record. Re-
striction of entries may have
been responsible for the general
grading-up of quality and elimi-
nation of tail. The high per-
centage of animals by sires im-
ported since the war undoubtedly
influenced the general improve-
ment of type and quality.
With the exception of Red
Polls and Devons entries in all
breeds showed a decided in-
crease on last year. An im-
portant feature was the large
number of new studs making
their first appearance in Sydney
and the excellent showing they
made, in both novice and open
classes, against studs of estab-
lished repute and long experi-
ence in showmanship.
The Shorthorns.
Shorthorns were a splendid
Jot. With an odd exception
colors were particularly good,
rich deep reds predominating.
The five beautiful reds and the
roan that faced the judge for
championship honors were so
uniformly good that he had his
work cut out. The four bulls
which finally won championships
and reserves were all reds, three
of them sired by Coonong bulls.
The Coonong entries, incidentally,
which have dominated Sydney
awards for years, had to give
way to new, keen competition,
but the stud’s reputation was
fully upheld by its influence in
the pedigree of prizewinners.
Brunette Agricola, representing
the Queensland Gulf Cattle Co.’s
first appearance in Sydney, took
all before him. He is a rich red
with splendid top and underline,
a beautiful head and wonder-
fully finished over the tail and
hindquarters. Another new-
comer, Kelso Ensign, won the
junior championship for G.
Starritt and Sons, the Vic. stud-
masters whose reputation as
sheep-breeders is Common-
wealth-wide. Ensign and the
Woomargama entry, Noble
King, were first and second in
a very strong class of 41 bulls,
15-18 months. Woomargama
Matchless won senior reserve
honors.
Wongala, another comparative
newcomer, attracted attention
with its low-set, chunky cattle
of Scottish type by Chapel-
ton Ambassador (imp.). Among
the females, roans predomi-
nated, , and champions were
roans or white. Dauntless
Clara’s Joy, the junior champion
by a Coonong sire, had 'to give
way to another Victorian, Banool
Belle, in the final championship,
but held the reserve ribbon;
Tywagong White Rose retained
the junior reserve for N.S.W.
Poll Shorthorns.
Poll Shorthorn tops were a
good lot, and the improvement
in the breed continues, but the
also-rans drag down the standard
considerably. Some show too
siT>
“Cripes, I'm glad t' be back, Joe; the city crowds git on
me nerves.”
much day i ight underneath and
are too light in the bone. Colors
reveal improvement, but are still
a source 0 f weakness.
Some idea of the competition
«• breed and the enthusiasm
°f lts breedef s are evidenced in
the awards-shared by 15 studs
from N.S.W Q land and Tas-
mania. Netherby (Q.) scored
well with Imperial Command,
whose dam won the female
championship in Sydney for the
P a §t three years. This young
hull won the junior champion-
ship, but had to g.ve way in the
senior to Merryville Robert, who
had the advantage in age, scale
and handling.
Female classes were small;
Peel Loyal, a five-year-old roan
cow, took premier honors from
Karoola Rosewood, a champion
heifer who will improve with age.
Herefords.
Herefords were never better in
numbers or general quality. In
this breed the preponderance of
imported blood was outstanding.
Every contender for champion-
ship honors, including juniors
and reserves in both male and
female classes, was either sired
by imported bulls or imported in
dam. In particular, the influence
of Vern bulls was very marked.
As usual, the class for bulls
15-18 months drew a huge entry
—52 —and the winner, Turee
station’s Bound’s Quest (imp. in
dam), went on to take junior re-
serve ribbon. The 12-15 months’
class was particularly strong in
quality; in fact, this feature
characterised all the young
classes and is a pointer to the
all-round improvement achieved
by Australian studmasters.
South Boorook (Vic.) had a very
strong team that figured well in
the award list and included S. B.
England, a classy yearling, that
went on from junior champion
to win the senior reserve ribbon.
Colly Creek scored well and
crowned its effort by winning
the coveted championship with
Vagabond, who has fulfilled the
promise he showed last year by
winning the Brisbane junior
championship.
The females sustained the
quality, and awards were widely
distributed. Last year’s cham-
pion cow, Yarrandabbie Wood-
bine, was again triumphant. It
was a great year for Herbert
Park ; in addition to many class
wins this well-known New Eng-
land stud won the three remain-
ing female championships.
Poll Herefords.
Poll Herefords showed a good
general uplift in quality, and
again imported sires were largely
responsible. The Mt. Hamilton
(Vic.) team headed by Leviathan
owed much of its success to the
imported (U.S.) bull, Russell’s
Axtell. Leviathan took senior
and junior championships, and
in both instances the runner-up
was Blandford Beetle, a very
neat little bull from a compara-
tively new competitor.
In the female classes, Milton
retained its long run of triumphs
by taking all four championships
and reserves. Classes were not
large but competition was keen
and quality good.
Devons.
As only four Devon studs sup-
ported this year’s show classes
were small and competition
limited. Devons have been
steadily gaining in favor of late
years, and it was anticipated that
there would have been better
representation. The quality was
higher than ever, and although
Havilah was hard to beat*- as
usual, awards were well dis-
tributed. Havilah won senior,
reserve and junior bull cham-
pionships as well as female re-
serve and junior championships.
Junior reserve bull was from
Table Top. Champion cow and
junior reserve were from Ban
Ban.
Aberdeen-Angus.
Aberdeen-Angus failed to
show the general improvement
noticeable in other breeds. The
absence of Kahlua and Abington
contributed largely to this, and
the Booroomooka team was not
as strong as usual. Most classes
had a definite tail, particularly
the big parade of bulls 15-18
months.
Battery Park (Vic.) had a solid,
workmanlike team that deserved
the success it attained. This in-
cluded senior and junior champs.,
both of which were gained by
B. P. Antonio, a perfect little
bull that handled well and
paraded splendidly, Trangie
(N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture)
had a nice team to prove that
their imported bull, Erison of
Harviestoun, justified the cham-
pionship he won at Sydney two
years ago. The females were
particularly good, and One of
them, Trangie Eurotia Sixth
took top female honors. ’
Wallah Ranger was ’ reserve
bull, and the junior reserve went
to Booroomooka Salom, a prom
ismg youngster. Great interest
was shown in the appearance of
Booroomooka Noon, Sydney
champion of the past two years
However, she was unfortunate
m meeting the champion Trangie
cow in her class. Reserve .ribbon
went to Narrangullen. Another
shapely Narrangullen heifer
took the junior championship
with Wambanumba Society as
runner-up.
Red Polls.
Red Polls were fewer than last
year, but there was no decrease
in quality. This dual-purpose
breed has been getting much
favorable publicity of late by its
prominence in fat-steer com-
petitions in England and also for
the excellent milking record of
one N.S.W. herd in the latest
official test report. The com-
bination of these factors should
make it an ideal animal for the
small farmer or the man who
runs a few cows for domestic
use. This year the Bundaleer
Polls again remained in front.
Champion bull was Flagstaff
James, with Mt. Parry Tickle in
reserve, Bundaleer took both
junior and reserve and, in the
females, champion, reserve and
junior ribbons. Junior reserve
went to a newcomer from Vic-
toria—Woodi Yalloak Amy.
STUD CATTLE SALES.
“Bulago”: Before the Sydney
stud beef sales started there was
a general feeling that values
would be even higher than last
year. With this in mind breeders
put on fairly stiff reserve figures,
with the result that many were
passed in at prices that in normal
times would be considered very
good. Generally, buyers were
prepared to bid high for top stud
sires that suited them, but
beyond these prices dropped
sharply and in many cases were
below last year’s averages.
In the opening sales, two
Aberdeen-Angus bulls went to
four figures under keen competi-
tion. The first was Battery Park
Antonio, the shapely youngster
from Victoria which won both
senior and junior championships
at the Show, and which was pur-
chased by another Victorian
breeder for 1700gns. Shortly
afterwards, a Merriwa breeder
paid 1200gns. for Wallah
Ranger, the reserve champion.
Trangie Farm A.-A. met a good
demand at 500gns. and 410gns.,
but apart from these prices were
low or sellers refused to meet
the market.
Demand for Shorthorns
showed an improvement, but top
prices were lower than last year.
Nevertheless, some of the newer
studs with reasonable reserves
made good sales at a better level
than 1949. Best price was
HOOgns. paid by Walter Merri-
man for a very nice red bull,
Turanville Macer, first in his
class at the Show. All the Turan-
ville offerings met keen competi-
tion, There was also a good
demand for the low-set Wongala
bulls, one of which —Wongala
Bandmaster, an unplaced red-
brought second-best figure of
1025gns.
The Kelso (Vic.) team owe
their good average to the recep-
tion given Kelso Ensign, the
junior champion, which changed
hands at lOOOgns. These were
the only four-figure sales.
Woomargama bull? were in good
demand, Matchless, the reserve
champion, bringing 775gns. and
Noble King, the junior reserve,
475gns. Coonong got no fancy
prices, but their bulls averaged
well with four from 600gns. to
825gns.
Shorthorn cows were eagerly
sought, and top price was
625gns. paid by Walter Mern-
man for the reserve and junior
champion, Dauntless Claras Joy.
Highlight of the Poll Short-
horn sales was the 1700gns. paw
by Hector McFarlane, of Young,
for the Netherby reserve and
junior champion, Imperial
Command. Otherwise, values
were on much the same level
last year. A Daymar bull
brought second-best price
950gns., then two Gunnawarra
changed hands at 800gns. an
700gns. A red Bogan poll
Field Marshal —sold at 825gn •
Poll Shorthorn cows met eager
competition and good P ' •
Gunnawarra topped The


MODERN
SANITATION
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
f
THE
hyceia dissolvenator
(Complete self-contained sanitary
„ system.)
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
any handyman can
INSTAL IT
fomid tra„ S -
that
ttxlrlwS ree pamphlet,
HYGEIfI SANITARY CO.
, c pty., ltd.,
30 ? treet - Sydney.
Established 22 years.
‘ 6 for free illustrated pamphlet.
NSW • w DIST BIBCTORS:
(N.S Rlss °l ve nator Dist. Co.
QUEENSLANi?- ( H Ulb “ rn St- ’ sy dne y-
(Q’lanch Nl rna Hy n ei ? Dissolvenator
BuS’ n!! 9 olonial M «tual
Victoria’. lit.. Brisbane.
(Vie ) pV v eia Dissolvenator
Melbourne 7 " Ltd - 450 Collins St.,
So^nator A Co T |s' V A I v A \ Hy^eia Dissol-
Ing, Ruddle BuUd-
ine, Pnndin Edment
Western A 6 !?!™’ Adelaide.
Inen4 N & A Co TR^ IA: R> P ‘ Mc ‘
J& Perth. C °" Ltd -’ 441 Murray
2St A ;'! m i CjOßby & Co., Ltd . (
DARWIN °c and Hc^bart.
Sales and Services, Radolectrix
gf
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
f/l'ar
1
1
• ,/ «
Ms
■ ■
aiMi'iMium
40z., Boz. t 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
Handles BIG implements on BIG properties
Built from front to rear with the strength for the job
AVAILABLE IN TWO GEAR RATIOS
THE SPECIAL RATIO for soil conditions where lough going and the implements used demand
increased pounds pull at the drawbar.
THE STANDARD RATIO for use where soil conditions
and implements allow increased miles per hour and
where less pounds pull at the drawbar is necessary.
In official Nebraska—type tests, at rated load (75%
of maximum), and in second gear comparisons are as
follows:
SPECIAL RATIO
Drawbar Pull lbs. M.P.H. Drawbar H.P.
3,000 3.5 28.4
STANDARD RATIO
Drawbar Pull lbs. M.P.H. Drawbar H.P.
2,300 4.6 28.3
Po!V£fi£o
5?.y?.w.w
ims
mm*
■rfS
FMDB4SA-27
Enquire from your State Distributors:
N.S.W.:—Motor Tractors Pty. Ltd., 369-385 Wattle St., Ultimo. VICTORIA:—MaIcoIm
Moore Pty. Ltd., 300 City Rd., South Melbourne. QUEENSLAND: —Buzacott’s (Q’ld.) '
Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. SOUTH AUSTRALIA:—Power Plant Ltd., 98-100 Currie
St., Adelaide. WEST AUST.:—Lynas Motors Pty. Limited, 981-983 Hay St., Perth.
OR FROM YOUR LOCAL FORDSON DEALER
FOBP MOTOR tBWPANY Or »BSTMilft fTY. Ul>. PC. Jl HC.I. HOMEBUSH, M.S.W.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
taow^ e t& S nd °,! her Products are
as nf S 1 0? u the Commonwealth
as ot the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
“very Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
mmmmssm
| -
imBSBm
- ■
■Jtm
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
* Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd
Reg'd Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
g
with 525gn5., but the average
attracted
the largest crowd and sales were
very satisfactory. Keen interest
was displayed m the South
Boorook (Vic.) team, which did
fo well at the Show, and this
t U average was over lOOOgns.
The highest-priced bull was S. B.
Bradford, bought by a Queens-
land breeder for 2000gns., top
price of the sales. This bull was
not even placed at the Show,
and it now transpires that dur-
ing the heavy rain he was
brought out too late to be
paraded with his class and there-
fore was not seen by the judge.
Other Boorook bulls brought
HOOgns. and USOgns.
There was a good demand for
Golf Hill stuff, which sold at
1025gns. for Famous by Ast-
wood Nascent (imp.). Colly
Creek got lOOOgns. for Vibrant
and good prices for the rest. The
Herbert Park. Herefords sold
very well, one bull reaching
lOOOgns. and others not far be-
hind. The only other stud to
reach four figures was Dalkeith,
for a bull by Town Nelson
(imp.), for which J. Sparkes, of
Dalby, paid 1250gns.
Cuppacumbalong bulls by
Vern Vereker (imp.) sold well,
and while not among the fancy
prices averaged better than
most. Hereford females met a
keen demand and prices were
very good.
Poll Hereford sales' were
patchy. The dual-champion bull,
Mt. Hamilton Leviathan,
brought HOOgns. from Merry-
ville, while Lordly, from the
same Victorian stud, made
lOOOgns. Next-best was 530gns.,
again for this stud, then a
Merawah bull sold at 510gns.
Females yielded a good average
price.
Devons provided the surprise
of the sales, with record bids for
the breed in Australia, Havilah’s
junior champion, Midas 2nd,
brought 775gns. from a Queens-
land breeder, and another Devon
from the same stud was pur-
chased at 750gns. and one at
620gns. Table Top and Banoole
also made sales above last year’s
top price.
Red Poll figures were well up.
Bundaleer bulls brought 225gns.
and 150gns. and Mt. Parry got
140gns.
It often happens that the
judges’ choices are a long way
down the list at the sales, but
this year, with an odd exception,
the champions and prizewinners
sold remarkably well.
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”: See that calves
always have access to hay It is
particularly valuable after first
autumn rains, and will assist in
preventing the severe scouring
sometimes brought on by graz-
ing on lush, quick-growing
pastures.
“Billjim”; Potatoes being
kept for seed may be protected
from moth by dusting inside and
mouth of bag with 5 p.c. D.D.T.
After digging, bag as» soon as
possible, turn the bag upside-
down and remove from paddock.
“Sundowner”: April is a good
month to prepare a tree or
shrub with widespread roots for
removal. Dig a circular trench
about 18in. wide, 2ft. or more
out from the trunk (depending
on size of tree to be removed).
Dig away the soil below the roots
and cut through them as work
proceeds. Saw larger roots
rather than cut them, to avoid
excessive injury. After getting
below the main root system cut
inward to sever the main tap-
roots. Refill trench with soil.
Return the tree to the hole,
thoroughly soaking ground if it
is inclined to # be dry. Although
the tree will be checked it should
soon recover and develop a new
fibrous-root system. These will
bind the soil moire compactly.
Then at any time from the end of
May to spring, the trench can be
reopened and removal com-
pleted.
“Orange”; Crops like potatoes
and corn which need cultivating
or hilling during growth should
never be planted up and down a
slope because of erosion danger
through much pulverisation of
the soil. Rows should be made
across the slope, or behind
contour banks. It is a good plan
to make half-circular rows, be-
ginning at lower edge, or to en-
circle a hill, if not too steep, by
removing tftviding-fences and
ploughing around it from the
base upward.
“Rooster”: Many garden pests
will now be laying their eggs
for next season’s carry-over,
among them various aphis and
bugs. Spray wherever there are
any signs of them, and spray
weed patches anyhow. Best
spray is the new E 605. A 2oz.
bottle costs 95., and is sufficient
to make 40 gallons. Dilution
for small quantities is two tea-
spoonfuls to three gallons. Don’t
use it on vegetables later than a
week or 10 days before using
them.
“W. Court”: Sunflowers grow
well in the coastal districts of
Central and South Queensland.
The Giant Russian is one of the
most prolific seed-bearers. No
sunflower variety will succeed ex-
cept on well-worked land, free
from weeds. Hollow seed points
to a potash deficiency in the
soil.
“Wilco”: Ordinary laundry
soap is unsuitable for washing
dogs. The lather is rough on
canine skin and can lead to sores.
Kerosene, though effective
against “flea patches,” burns the
skin badly. Use a proper dog
soap for washing and dust with
flea-powder between times.


Most boys of British stock have the love of the sea, the spirit of adventure,
in their blood, and these young Cadet-Midshipmen who are learning to
sail on the waters of Westemport are some of the future officers of the
Royal Australian Navy. After four years at the Royal Australian Naval
College at Flinders Naval Depot, Victoria, they will go overseas for
further study and experience with the Royal Navy, eventually to become
qualified officers of the Royal Australian Navy—ready to accept the
resnonsibilities of this splendid career.
Do you plan a
NAVAL CAREER
for /our son?
Applications are invited for CADET-MIDSHIPMEN
Intelligent, healthy boys who become 13 years of age during 1050,
are eligible for entry to the R.A.N. as Cadet-Midshipmen. They
must be the sons of British subjects by birth or naturalization and
of pure European descent. After educational and medical
examinations, they will pass before an interviewing committee, and
the selected applicants will enter the Royal Australian Naval College,
at Flinders Naval Depot, Victoria, at the end of January, 1951.
They will spend four years at the College before going overseas for
experience and further training with the Royal Navy. On return
they are appointed to ships of H.M.A. Fleet.
■-'IN,
■
ill
■II
-: ■'' '■
m
w
i
-
88*»B8
ft* •
/<
mm
All particulars can be obtained from the
Naval Recruiting Office in your capital
city. Victorian enquiries should be made
direct to the Secretary, Department of
the Navy, Navy Office.
APPLICATIONS FOR CADET-MIDSHIPMEN, 13
YEARS-OLD CLASS OF ENTRY. SHOULD
REACH THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF
THE NAVY, NAVY OFFICE, MELBOURNE.
NOT LATER THAN Hth JUNE I9SO.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY
.RANV26.83.30
NOW LETS
HAVE A scenes
Dooley)
math trap
n-i
Ca
1 iJ-
Qdi'
<£p\
d"
t?
rv
■4
cS>
m
A
%
a
/uS
u
j/- /
I V
IL^'
m
ye*
51-eO*®-""
W /ien you call for Brandy
make sure you say
scenes
BRANDY
“THE ITITIKI, tin uriOM"
Ii ANDY
DAS
Distilled and Bottled LTD.. South Australia
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
A Review of Economic, Market and Financial
Conditions, Company Accounts, Mining Activities
Published by “The Bulletin.”
2/- per copy—22/6 a year, post free
Divorce Notices.
IN THE 'SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES HAROLD DULLER SMITH
late of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
PHYLLIS ‘HILDA SMITH has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1186 of 1950
on the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 19th day of June 1950 and obtain
a eopv of the petition without charge
from E. G. SAYEGH, Solicitor, 133 Pitt
Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO LEONARD MERRILL formerly of
Allen Street Henty N.S.W. —TAKE
NOTICE that JOYCE ALICE MARY
MERRILL has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4410 of 1949 on the grounds of your
desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years or upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 26th June 1950 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. RAND DREW
VILLENEUVE-SMITH & DAWES, Soli-
citors, of 2 Hunter Street, Sydney.—
(1.5.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in
Divorce.
L
Missing Friend.
O’BRIEN, Daniel—ANYONE knowing
any information regarding DANIEL
O’BRIEN and his son who emigrated
from Killaloe. Co. Clare, Eire, about
50 years ago are asked to communicate
with T. J. PURCELL, Solicitor, 66 King
Street, Sydney.
Public Notice.
[ CORNELIA PETRONELLA ROSE, of
Dutch nationality, born at The Hague,
Holland, and resident 35 years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 2 Stanley Street,
East Sydney, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
fIREP ffilZ
need
tired
feet
Hot.
treatment
this
bath
Soap
Cuticura
Oh***
Cnticnra
and
pphcation- Try
enjoy real loot
.* 1 Cuticura
i
ment
and
comfort.
and
Soap
Ointment,
Powder
Talcum
famous
the
trio.
533
f
heavier. The aircraft skidded
for some distance and broke in
half before diving below the
surface.
11.
DISING tide lapped about
I Joss Brown’s feet and woke
him from a cramped sleep. He
sat up, pulled the parachute silk
about him and blinked with tired
eyes at the grey light moving
slowly across the sea on the tide.
Standing, he looked down at the
four huddled figures of his crew.
They, were on higher sand, so
he did not wake them. But as he
turned towards the dinghy, Les
St. John joined him.
“How are you feeling, Les?”
he asked. “It will be light soon.
I’m having another search. Give
me a hand with the dinghy.”
They paddled the rubber raft
out over the shallow ripples on
the reef. Through the dull water
dim clusters of coral flowered,
and as the water deepened, They
strained their eyes for any sign
of white metal.
“This would be about the
place,” St. John said. “I re-
member after thrashing the sea
and getting nowhere I put down
my foot and was able to stand,”
“The tide’s risen since then,”
Brown said. “And it wasn’t so
shallow; I was caught up under
the kite, gulping water and
petrol, and didn’t know which
way was’up. Just as well the
dinghy floated. I’d say.”
“Oh, you could stand,” St.
John said.
They smiled wearily at one
another, thinking of the night
before when they had floundered
and cursed in the dark water
until finally five of them had
clambered into the dinghy. There
they had waited, helloing across
the star-pricked stillness for
Stanford and Roberts until the
moon rose.
By moonlight they searched
for several hours, picking up
water-cans and parachute packs,
but no sign of the missing men.
Worn out, they paddled to the
thin crescent of sand within the
reef, and, huddled .together, slept.
NOW they searched again, but
without hope. Their two
friends had flown with them for
nearly, a year, and this was the
end of it. The chftl half-light
brought bitterness and pain.
They paddled the dinghy in
silence, each wondering if the
other blamed him.
Am I to blame? Brown
wondered. Yes. I should have
checked the petrol earlier. And
even then, had we left Ellis, we
could have got home. I should
have thought of my own crew
first.
Yet at the back of his mind,
there was a new firmness u
landings°agafn *
of , w J er * Brown stripped S
and dived into the C leaT se f
Ke came up with his l Unss
aching but his head clear ul
dived again and searched amo™
&£*** the
the first time e the n cSloK e cl?mJ°g
the , sk y- Th e high clouds glowed
with the morning sun and the sea
was bright with light. Unwil
Imgly, Brown felt a surge of i ov
and strength in his tired body
“ T^’ s on jy half the kite
there,’ he said. “You have a
go, Les.”
St. John stripped and plunged
A multitude of bubbles broke
the surface, and St. John himself
came up, spitting water He
dived again, and Brown laughed
helplessly in the dinghy while the
bubbles rose. They paddled to
deeper water, looking for the tail
unit.
[ N the cascading light the coral-
-1 beds revealed their delicate
changing colors. Small multi-
toned fish swam from green
water above white sand to the
deep opaque-blue beyond.
“Look at this one, Les,”
Brown said. “Have you ever
seen such colors? Look at those
flecks of red light; and there,
bright gold!”
“I wouldn’t mind a bit of that
coral to take home,” St. John
said.
“I’ll get you some.”
Brown dived again, this time
in search of treasure. The cool
sea closed around him, and he
opened his eyes to marvel at its
submarine splendors. Some-
where where the blue deepened,
his two friends lay drowned.
That he accepted now. Life had
moved on. /
They spent the next half-ho.ur
searching for colors and diving.
Almost ashamed of their happi-
ness at being alive, they
paddled towards the sand. The
sun burnished the sea, and a
small object caught the light
among the ripples at the water s
edge. The dinghy grounded be-
side a stout tobacco-tin. Brown
opened it and found a dozen dry.
perfectly-rolled cigarettes and
some waterproof matches. They
looked at one another in wonder.
“Yours, Les?”
“No. Yours, Joss?”
“No. But what are we wait-
ing for?” , ,
As the blue smoke curled on
their breath they knew perfect
happiness. Johnny Roberts
left more than a clause in a w
FURTHER down the beach
i the other three were waving
wildly and pointing to the eas.
Brown and' St. John turned to
hear the low distant
aircraft engines. A - n
came out of the sun. beaC h
arm they walked up the
to join their waving cie \ ggS
“How will bacon and egg
go?” said St. John. R ovvn .
“All right.”
“And we’ll share Bill Sta
beer.”


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOM 4
OSUUJVAN
mm a,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
head office and factories
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
monotype AND LINOTTM
OPERATORS
•TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVER*
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
photo process engravers
envelope manufacturers
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
stereotypers
Rulers, bookbinders
gold blockers
commercial artists
advertising creators and
counsellors : ; publishers
ENGINEERS
•YBTEM3 AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS and twines
Telegrams and Cables
•XACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Personality can
be acquired
People used to think you
alitv eitber k° rn with person-
th , ty or you weren’t and
rln L Was nothinr J you could
But in April
,T ader s Digest, famed psy-
teii«?° s v> st Dr> Henr y c - Link
can your P er sonality
trains la i ly be devel oped by
o# „ Bead the basic secret
happS S P T° nality and
conlS s !“' tormlnSneW
your Beader’s Digest
in?L oVer 30 article « of last-
kading !?’ Condensed fr om
b °oks i7fi ga n neS ’ curren£
bootaSb 11 newsa^“s
s Sh Rupture
> locaHon
af YQtlg RypTtmr
Mussel
with C Q° U , ( ? work
security .and
holds, ~ definitely
De cessarv C , ondlt ‘on
Provenient °or im '
ed VC by Recommend.
Ca ll or USands -
toea^ r e m s “‘ d stamp for details, self
L , AI ; P LIANCE CO.
* “ Martla Place, Sydney,
m
h
HI
S/. ; '
IK
m
m
:0r
Mi
-Mi
■
K
I
T(,f
-
'"M
0?
ill
v ' £\V
4
1
FOR ACCESS . . .
“At every re-union with Army Club,” said the Major,
you II pass a vote of thanks for the zipper that
fastens the outer ‘Cellophane’ cellulose film. One
tug and the way is clear for the immediate enjoyment
of that full-bodied Virginia blend, ripened by sun,
mellowed by time and rolled in
tasteless, inkless ‘filigrained’ rice
paper”.
w
■
V 7
* >»-
Army Club are
Proudly Made
in Australia.
Cluhn
rmy
AN
BE A
Smoke the Cigarette containing Rich Golden Leaf, Ripened by Sun, Mellowed by Time
AC-449
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
rector of old postcards, pre-
m tf War I period — scenes,
W°rId greeting etc. —would like to
S'SeSg fens to collection.
To hnv copies of After the Deluge,
b y T Wo3f, and Natural Rights, by
R To hl buy 4 copy of Still More Fun for
the Footlights, by Courtney Hope —
48 \Vords of poem “Endymion,” by
John Keats—4811.
To buy copy of The Grand Pere-
grination, by Maurice Colhs.—4812.
ronv of article in Australian paper
on Warbreccan Station (Q) in the
’nineties— 4809.
To buy copy of The Evolution of
the Endurance, Speed and Staying
Power of the Racehorse by W. J.
Stewart McKay. —4815.
Information Sought.
Did the Australian aborigines
migrate in the winter, and what pro-
tection had they against the cold
weather?
The natives could not migrate,
either as small groups or as tribes,
as each tribe had its own well-defined
territory, and to trespass on another
tribe’s domain meant severe punish-
ment. There are numerous references
to the way the abos. felt the winter
cold. To keep warm they huddled
round small fires in cave or hut, or
used cloaks of animal skins. But it
must be remembered that an
individual who has lived without
clothes from babyhood builds up re-
sistance to changes in temperature.
* * * *
Treatment for a cat that is suffering
from a skin irritation, and is rapidly
losing fur?
Bathe the affected parts once a day
for a week with a mixture of loz.
Wright’s solution of coal tar, 1
drachm Goulard’s extract of lead,
loz. glycerine boracic, Boz. distilled
water. Mix 36 grains reduced iron,
ioz. sulphate magnesia and the speci-
fied quantity of ext, gentian; make
into 12 pills and administer one twice
daily. Salt or an exftess of starchy
foods should be avoided, and a bath
every four days in Jeyes’ fluid diluted
80 times is also very beneficial.
* * ♦ ♦
What is the origin of the expression
“the real McCoy;’’ meaning the
genuine article?
Many derivations have been sug-
gested. A popular theory is that
when Kid McCoy was world’s cham-
pion welterweight (1896-97) he was
stopped in the street by a drunk who,
not knowing the pug.’s identity and
refusing to believe it when told, was
determined to fight him. When Mc-
Coy’s fists had convinced him, the
victim picked himself up saying
“That’s the real McCoy!”
* * * *
Does the presence or absence of
trees in an area affect its average rain-
fall?
No definite proof, but experienced
observers are convinced that trees, by
throwing off cooling currents of air,
precipitate rain. Bushmen know from
experience that showers almost always
follow the timber-line of a river.
Further, the wettest parts of Australia
are those with plenty of trees, such as
Gippsland, N. S. Wales North Coast
and coastal Queensland.
*** ’ *
What is proof spirit, and what is
the difference between American and
English proof spirit?
It is a mixture of alcohol and
water, containing a standard amount
of alcohol. In the United States
proof spirit contains 42.49 p.c. of
alcohol by volume. In England proof
spirit is that which weighs 12/13 of
an equal measure of distilled water,
containing 49.28 p.c. by weight or
57.10 p.c. by volume of alcohol.
* * ♦ *
Any information on the origin of
the Basque race and language?
Origin of race is uncertain; they
have been termed Iberians, connected
with a fair-skinned African people,
or with the remnants of a tribe
who escaped from a now-lost Ameri-
can land. However, they mainly
resemble Mediterraneans in type.
Their language has no certain affinities
with any other tongue. It has been
suggested that it is a survival of that
of the Cro-Magnon peoples.
* * * *
Details of duels fought in Aus-
tralia ?
Three are of some historical import-
ance: (1) On Sept. 10, 1801, W.
Paterson, in command of the N.S.W.
Corps, challenged John Macarthur, a
junior officer, for having divulged
and misinterpreted Paterson’s private
commands to him. They met near
Parramatta on the 14th, and Paterson
was wounded. Macarthur was arrested
and sent to England for trial. (2)
Robert Wardell, editor of the “Aus-
tralian,” attacked Saxe Bannister,
who had just resigned the Attorney-
Generalship. Bannister challenged
Wardell; they met at Pyrmont, but
neither was hurt. (3) Stuart Donald-
son attacked the Government of his
day * for extravagance, citing the
Surveyor-General’s Department as an
example. Sir T. Mitchell, its head,
challenged Donaldson, and a duel
took place in Centennial Park, Syd-
ney. It was stopped when Mitchell
sent a shot through Donaldson’s hat.
Brief Answers.
A.M.R.: Write Lecturer-in-charge,
Tanning School, Bourke-street, Water-
loo (N.S.W.)... .T.H.T.: Don’t use
strong, burning artificial manures. A
little superphosphate mixed into the
soil about the base of the plants has
a beneficial effect, but, where procur-
able, it is better to use rotted cow
manure. Agricultural lime is also an
excellent tonic, and keeps snails and
slugs from destroying the buds, which
come from the base of the clumps....
PJ.S.: Mick Dooley defeated Peter
Felix for the Australian heavyweight
championship in 1895, and held the
title until Bill Doherty beat him in
1899 F.C.M.: Butcher-birds feed
on large insects, lizards, mice and
young birds, and derive their name
from their habit of hanging up the
bodies of any victims which cannot
be swallowed immediately by sticking
them on spiny twigs on some con-
venient tree... .L.B.: Both North and
South Heads (Sydney Harbor) were
formerly islands. At that time the sea-
level stood about 15ft. higher than it
does today, and Sydney Harbor com-
municated with the ocean across
Manly on the north and from Rose
Bay to Bondi on the south....
M c G.A. : A professional golfer is
defined as anyone who takes payment
for playing or teaching golf, is em-
ployed in connection with making
and maintaining greens, fairways, etc.;
makes or proffers for sale golfing
material; or, being over the age of
18, plies for hire as a caddy... ,D.R.:
The Frenchman whose grave is
situated at La Perouse, Sydney, was
Louis Receveur, a Franciscan friar,
who accompanied La Perouse on his
voyage through the Pacific as natural-
ist and astronomer aboard the Astro-
labe. At Tutuila he was wounded by
natives and never recovered, dying at
Botany Bay, February 17, 1788....
M.M.: Samuel Johnson altered the
second line of Richard Gifford’s
poem “Contemplation” to; “All at
her work the village maiden sings”;
and in the third line substituted
‘while” for “as” A.M.P.; Yes,
Beethoven called on Mozart at Salz-
burg in 1787, four years before the
latter’s death.... D.L.: Both have the
same area, the equivalent of a square
with sides one mile in length, but
“one mile square” indicates that the
shape of the area is square, while a
“square mile” may refer to a similar
area of any shape A.J.S.: The
condition is due to a disease known
as spotted wilt, which is described,
and suggested methods of control
given, in Plant Disease Leaflet No.
37, obtainable from the Department
of Agriculture, Sydney T.L.:
There were 146,777 civilian casualties
in the United Kingdom due to enemy
action. Of these, 60,595 were killed,
or missing, believed killed, and 86,182
were injured and detained in hospital.
W.McA.: The Sunshine railway
disaster occurred on April 20, 1908,
at 10.45 p.m., at Sunshine station,
Braybrook (Vic.). Forty-three per-
sons were killed and 250 injured,
some very seriously.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS, No liability is undertaken \e
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. US. should be
addressed to the Editor,
N.J.A.: You telegraph your
punches... .W.G.H.: Demands more
serious treatment and climax is loosely
handled... .C. 8.: A whirl of unreal
characters and improbable situations.
Bellerive; Those were the days:—
. ...M.L.: Seems to us you’ve never
quite made up your mind how you
ought to present your two-up-school
characters Y.S.: You surely didn’t
expect us to wade through those pages
of gore?.. . .8.T.: Again that yarn
about the wharfies who got sozzled
on liquor in which a zoological speci-
men was pickled ; time they tried a
new drink... .G.A.W.: Impressed by
the sage conclusion that “when a fel-
low’s on the bum, there’s nothing
better than a nip of rum”... .T.F.:
You can’t tell a story A.L.V.:
Glad to note that there are people
still energetic enough to go observing
sunrises, even though they don’t make
poetry of them J.C.: You have
ideas but fail in the struggle to ex-
press them H.L.: That’s the
trouble —too much of textbook and
too little of life in your story....
F.S.M.: Topical verse is required to
say something newer and brighter
than you manage A.H.W.; Your
night of terror gave us 10 minutes
of boredom... .K.Q.: If you can get
down off those verbal stilts you may
do something worth while C.C.:
It’s wonderful how long that fellow
has been going around with a broken
heart... .8.P.M.: Soon gave up try-
ing to get interested in the man who
gave up drinking E.A.S.: Moder-
ately good. It would need to be
extraordinarily good to eat up that
space D.P.: Despised remittance-
man ; heroic rescue of tormentor’s
child; return to popular favor —a col-
lection of battered props....
S.S.McK:. Queer, but almost half of
recent first attempts tell how the man
from the bush reforms his youthful
sweetheart - turned - street - angel
8.A.: Can’t make the shotgun-wed-
ding plot new by making it a boom-
erang wedding H.R.: “The House
That Uncle Bert Built” condemned
by our clerk of works.
IN DAYS OF HORSE BUSES AND CABS.
There was gaiety and pleasure.
And plenty of fun,
In days when horse buses
And cabs did run.
At the city theatres
Stars of the stage
Shone in great dramas.
The topic and rage.
At the races big money
Was lost and won,
In days when horse buses
And cabs did run.
Admission was cheap
To a circus show
And other attractions
Of long years ago.
Fascinating to children
On Christmas time
Were the fairy nymphs
In a pantomime.
There was recreations
And plenty of fun.
In days when horse buses
And cabs did run.


The contributor placed first is paid
4½d. per line; all others 2¼d. per line.
White Australia
Mr. Calwell’s statement at the Victorian
A.L.P, Conference—“ The White Australia
policy is racial in part, we should admit
that”—makes it timely that Australians
studied their own. history. I’ve met few'
who know the background story of
“White Australia”—the colorful prelimin-
ary to the later Federal immigration laws
which now form the basis of the so-called
“policy.”
Late in the nineteenth century, before
the Commonwealth was born, Britain
signed a treaty with China which gave
to the nationals of the signatories the
right of free entry into the respective
territories of each country, including
Britain’s colonial possessions. Australia
and New Zealand, at that time, came
under the jurisdiction of the Colonial
Office in London.
Before the signing of the treaty a con-
siderable number of Chinese were already
in Australia; they had arrived mainly
during the alluvial gold rushes and worked
on the diggings. Gradually, as the
alluvial fields were worked out, these
Chinese drifted into the cities, where they
set themselves up in small businesses
working round the clock, seven days a
week. Under those conditions of labor
they were able to undercut and force out
of business their European competitors.
The signing of the treaty brought un-
availing protests from the Australian
and N.Z. political leaders ; 'the Colonial
Office was adamant; the treaty obliga-
tions must be fulfilled. But, when fleets
of ships arrived in all Australian ports
jam-packed with Chinese immigrants, the
public was aroused and indignation grew
to fever-heat. Afl the Colonial Govern-
ments found some pretext to prevent the
Chinese landing.
In Victoria a Chinese resident brought
action against the Government in the
Supreme Court of Victoria. He won.
But the Government, supported by public
opinion, defied the court decision. In
N.Z. the Government found excuses for
an embargo under Customs regulations.
In N. S. Wales Sir Henry Parkes, then
Premier, emphasised his Government’s
viewpoint:
Neither for her Majesty’s ships of war,
nor for her Majesty’s representative on the
spot, nor for her Majesty’s Secretary of
State for the Colonies, do we intend to
turn aside from our purpose. I care
nothing for your cobweb of technical law.
I am obeying a law far superior to any law
which issues permits, namely, the law of
preservation of society. The influx of a
few million Chinese here would entirely
change the character of this young Aus-
tralian Commonwealth. It is Because I
believe the Chinese to be a powerful race,
taking a great hold on this country, and
because 1 wish to preserve the type of my
own nation, that 1 am, and always have
been, opposed to the influx of Chinese.
Because of the strength of the protests
and possibly remembering its lost Ameri-
can colonies, the British Government
abrogated the treaty.
Calwell and the A.L.P. should note that
the basis of White Australia, as expressed
by widespread public opinion, was more
largely economic than racial —the racial
objection was not derogatory —and, in
point of fact, White Australia was intro-
duced to protect the Australian standard
of living and maintain reasonable hours
of work for the forerunners of the A.L.P.
In particular, the Miscellaneous
Workers’ Union, which moved the motion
for “quota” immigration, would be one
of the first to feel the effects of a quota
of unskilled labor competing with their
own members of the same class. Having
sponsored their admission, the union
might be hard put to deny membership
to new Australians of Asian bloods.
In the wider sense, recent events in
China give emphasis to Sir Henry Parkes’s
eloquence. The Yellow Peril of the nine-
teenth century was economic in character
without military backing. The twentieth-
century Yellow Peril was also economic,
but, as most Australian families have sad
reason to know, had the full support of
a militant nation.
The next “Peril,” if it comes, could
well be an improvement on the lines fol-
lowed Joy Japan.
Calwell’s emphatic statement, “The
White Australia policy could be rewritten
only at Australia’s peril [lt] was
written for the protection of posterity,”
deserves commendation for its strength.
I would go further and emphasise that
the “policy” was the outcome of spon-
taneous public feeling.
Parkes’s words should rank in Aus-
tralian history with those of Abraham
Lincoln in American history. It is re-
grettable that our school histories don’t
quote the words and circumstances under
which Parkes spoke. I picked up the
quotation in an American history of
Australia.
My own View of the wisdom of continu-
ing a White Australia is that once an
idea or an ideal has been clearly written
in a nation’s history nothing can erase it.
The grandparents of the present genera-
tion expressed themselves very strongly,
and there is no reason to suppose Aus-
tralians of today would act otherwise.
As to possible offence given by' the
term “White Australia,” the world should
be told that we have no color bar. Asians
can visit us, enter our universities, stay
at our best hotels. We welcome them as
friends, but, as W. M. Hughes once told
the Japanese, “No one likes their friends
to come and stay with them permanently.”
—W. (N.S.W.).
Teachers and Inspectors
“Seahawk” (B. 22/2/’5O) left the in-
spectorial system out of his calculations
on the shortage of schoolteachers. In-
telligent and earnest youngsters can face
up to most of the disadvantages “S.”
named with a hope of better times to
come, but thqy cannot stomach the
present system of inspection. In no other
walk of life, not even in the Army, has
any one man such absolute power over
others.
An inspector sees a teacher for a few
hours once a year, and on his reaction
“Someone for YOU, dear."
to the teacher’s personality and teaching
methods depends the whole of that
teacher’s future. An inspector has no
possible chance, in the time, of making a
sound appraisal of the year’s work, yet
appraise it he must, and one adverse
report can, and often does, blight the
professional reputation and prospects of
an industrious and conscientious teacher.
There is no such thing as a matter of
opinion in this arrangement. The inspector
is always right, and if the teacher sub-
scribes to one of the many basic theories
of education with which the inspector
does not agree down comes his appraisal.
Many inspectors are elderly men nurtured
on educational practices which were dis-
credited even before Shaw lashed them,
but the inspector’s pet ideas must also be
the teacher’s ideas or the axe falls.
Abuses of power may be rare, but they
do happen and potential teachers know it.
I can see no way out except by the
appointment of many more inspectors.
Their reports should be considered by a
board of experts, and an impartial
appraisal made. That might be cumber-
some, but it would do away with many
abuses in the present system, which is at
best an outmoded business of seeking
backsliders and wielding the big stick. —
Jim O’Keefe (Q.).
Wine and Dried Fruits
“Vino del Pais” (B. 15/3/’5O) gives
vintners some good advice, but aren’t
there other points as well as the amount
and quality of the wine we sell? Not
only wine-grapes are being used, but also
drying-grapes—sultanas, currants and
gordos.
Sometimes, of course, growers send
these varieties to the distillery because
the weather has spoiled them for drying,
but in the Murray district of S.A., when
I picked there in 1947 and 1948, many
tons of beautiful drying fruit were made
into wine.
The reason? At the price offered by
the distilleries for fresh fruit, it didn’t
pay the blocker to dip, spread, dry, shake,
and box them ; he got as much profit
from the fresh fruit, and had no weather
risk to run—the grapes were picked,
loaded on trucks, and that was the end
of it.
The remedy? Growers must be paid
enough to make the extra work and risk
worth while. We’d have to pay more for
our dried fruit, but I’d rather do that
than take all my grapes as wine.—
Taswegian (Tas.).
Cement
I’ll have an even quid with “Recco”
(B. 22/2/’5O) that any truth in his cement,
story got there by mistake, fft goes like
this. Cement is being loaded into lorries
at Portland (N.S.W.) and carried over
the Blue Mountains down to Penrith, a
distance of roughly 78 miles, passing a
score of railway sidings en route, is then
loaded into railway trucks and sent back
over the mountains again on a railway
which runs parallel with the road for not
less than 70 miles.
That, says “R.,” is a case of railway
inefficiency. Why? It’s not so much in-
efficiency as criminal folly to use a petrol-
burning lorry to cart bulk freight from
one railway-station to another when the
route passes through a major coalfield ;
but why railway inefficiency?—Trans-
porticus (Singapore).
Prices
My statement about high margins in
industry was not based on published re-
ports of profits made by manufacturing
companies (B. 22/3/’5O), but on practical
experience as an employee of various con-
cerns and as a businessman.
Because a seaman made an error that
would disgrace a 14-year-old schoolboy
“H.A.L.” should not jump to the con-
elusion that the average tradesman is so
ignorant that he cannot make simple
calculations of costs, including overhead.
On the contrary, his calculations are
sometimes embarrassingly accurate. In
Arbitration Court proceedings and round-
table conferences representatives of the
employees are usually chosen because
they have an accurate knowledge of
business management. I know that be-
cause I’ve sat on both sides of the fence.
True, increased production with a dis-
proportionate increase in overhead—in-
creased production must increase overhead
to some extent, even if only by wear
and tear on machines and increased power
and light cost, etc. —will result in lower
cost per unit. Unfortunately, that does
not necessarily mean a lower cost to the
public, and therein lies the nigger in the
woodpile.
A report from the U.S.A. gives point
to my contention. It states that unem-
ployment is nearing the danger level (six
million), while official statistics show that
manufacturers and business generally are
enjoying record* output, record sales, and
record profits. And price levels are the
highest in the history of the U.S.
I mentioned that shops were full of
certain items, but there was no sign of a
reduction in prices. “H.A.L.” retorted
that that is because steel does not enter
very much into the production of these
goods. The opposite, rather —steel is the
very basis of refrigerators, electric stoves,
radios and most electrical goods,
“H.A.L.” also opines that workers who
have been in business don’t talk about
high margins. That’s true enough in the
case of small retail businesses and certain
types of manufacturing, but in other types
The margins could be cut with advantage
to our economy.
Some years ago there was reason for
high margins, because of comparatively
limited markets requiring a iimi
to make the business profi ta b] P B V rofit
the position is different and* Toda y
the manufacturer,
12a per cent, net on a small ♦ * sa V.
begins to think in terms of 5
on a large turnover, the sooner I Cenl
spiral will be halted. the P ri «s
I’m not an advocate of restricts
duction, nor an apologist for the li Pr °*
I believe in production to the ful? tP’
it s idle asking workers to increase t? Ut
output while their wages are
behind the cost of living and m . ps
papers are full of report ofrecord H' he
dends, bonus issues of shares an/ dlV i'
watering of capital.—*L. K. (N.S.W) mUCh
Melbourne Trams
t Th ® ™ ost sensational news with regard
to Melbourne’s tram-strike was that
Premier Hollway was contemplate
scrapping the tramways, selling the trams
to some other suffering city and handing
street transport over to private enterprise
m the bus line. A majority of Ministers
are said to favor his notion.
It’s a good idea. The juggernauts dis-
organise traffic by being stuck in the
middle of the road where they have to
break all the rules, and it is a matter of
life or death getting at them. An intelli-
gent tribe of ants would laugh at the
zones misnamed “safety” which are pro-
vided for pedestrian protection. They
and the trams are always infamously
overcrowded at the times when they could
be most useful, so that the majority of
citizens have never known, and will never
know, what it is to ride from their homes
to their jobs and back in comfort.
Half the potential revenue from trams
is never collected because it is impossible
to do so. They are slower than any other
form of transport and not much faster
than walking, and as there is a rule that
they cannot be bypassed, they reduce all
other traction to their own speed, with
a consequent enormous waste of petrol
and nervous exhaustion. A Martian with
a powerful telescope observing Mel-
bourne’s highways to the suburbs at peak
times, with trams stopping and starting
and making frenzied rushes between one
street-corner and another, each with a
string of motor-vehicles attached doing
the same thing, would find the spectacle
incomprehensible.
Trams are a perfect example of the
modern amenities that make life harder
to endure than ever. If Premier Hollway
decides to scrap ’em, I’m all for him.—
X. S. (Vic.).
Sugar-farming
I agree with “8.J.L.” (B. 29/3/ 3)
about the long delay before a cash return
is made on the sugar crop. Add w
months to the 21 months “B.J.L. quo es
and you will have 4 the time which • -
Wales growers have to wait, because *
majority of the cane varieties harves
in this State take two years to mature
A sore point with these grower^ \
the final payment for N. S. Wa
is likely to be 345.-£l per ton
that received by the Queensland g
Admitting that Queensland cane b
higher average sugar content does
North as much as 2 c.c.s.), tha
not account for the £1 dlffere P e eenS i an d
of that advantage in P nce in 9 h expo rt
must be attributed to he high
price—Queensland exporting 5U p s
of its 900,000- ton sugar crop and N.
Wales 10 per cent, of its 40, 0«>t
At a recent conference ° P y that
tives in Queensland, one deleg woU id
if the £A were revalued consulner
have to pay a further J d ’F owers can-
their su£ar. If Queenslan g p er
not produce profitably to sc in)a gine
pound home price, it is easy
the difficulties confronting
growers. ; s time
In fairness to all gro^j er ’ on e contro 1
the sugar industry came u roU nd.
to ensure an equitable p aS 30
Sugar is the same price e{ficieDC y
years ago. Although varied 5
has been increased and pound
of cane evolved, the rece baS i s 0 f tw°_‘
rise was distributed on tQ g ro we^
thirds to millers and , one /^ e t 0 offset &
Millers claimed their share 1 jng and
creasing costs fortran
handling, etc. The farmer sm 0 [
cover increases in _
machinery and fertiiisers. ld take a
The Federal Governmen industr y as
long-range view of the suga Que enS'
a whole and not leave tigat e, F
land Government to 1
medium of a Royal tbe next
State, its likely fntur
years.—A. H. S. (N^M


will, it contains enough matter to serve
10 modern plays of the same, genus, and
there is no doubt something there to be
understood —if you can understand it.
It is a sort of catch-as-catch-can, and
there is plenty to catch on to —the scene
in Troll Castle, for example. The witches,
warlocks, beldames and trolls with their
deformed bodies and their nightmare
faces may be symbols for Peer’s sexual
associations or something else, but it has
to be put on with nothing but the stage
directions to follow. The Cairo lunatic
asylum may symbolise Peer’s artistic frus-
tration. If was done by producer Joy
Youlden with a degree of realism that
made it almost too painful for contempla-
tion, with its madman who thinks he is
a pen, another who thinks he is a mummy
and the row of horrible mental nullities
behind bars.
Then you are taken to the Sahara
Desert and introduced to Anitra, though
not to Anitra’s song, because Grieg has
been ousted in favor of the music of
Dorian le Gallienne, the local composer.
Mr. le Gallienne’s music is distinguished
but unobtrusive.
The scene aboard ship—where Peer has
grown old and made too many mistakes,
has lost hope and is troubled about his
end and the consequences of his sinning
—was the best in the production. It had
a simple effectiveness that was very tell-
ing. The final scene, where Peer meets,
at a succession of crossroads, the button-
moulder who is going to mould his soul
into buttons to be thrown into a heap
with a million other buttons, was also
most effective, but it found Bill Ryall,
who had already sustained a variety of
wild moods through 30-odd scenes,
emotionally, if not physically, exhausted.
It was one long note of monotonous self-
pity. Up to then, Mr. Ryall, who once
gave us an outstanding Hamlet, was
equally outstanding in this role.
Ernest Hondros, as the King of the
Dovre Mountains, gave a quaintly humor-
ous performance, and Judith Leask, as
Solveig, shot a gleam of grace through
the wild proceedings. The Boyg, Huhu,
the Language Reformer, the Bird Cries
and the scores of other symbols for
Ibsen’s social satire and the various
aspects of human nature were, generally
speaking, done well, and those that were
done ill were hardly noticed in the vast-
ness of the canvas. It was a bold attempt
and successful beyond reasonable expecta-
tion.
TALKIES
"Monsieur Vincent."
This French film, at the Australia, Mel-
bourne, is the story of a man with an
obsession. What gave Vincent de Paul
the idea of fighting poverty and oppres-
sion in 17th-century France, where they
were universally accepted, isn’t known,
but he got it, and it kept him alive to a
great age—he died at 84, having estab-
lished innumerable hospitals, charitable
institutions, foundling homes and mis-
sions, manned by poor people and great
ladies, in the teeth of opposition from
both sides. It must have been an extra-
ordinarily strong obsession to make grand
ladies give up their self-indulgences and
go into the homes, or alleged homes, of
degraded paupers and into crowded sick-
bays where the dying fought each other
for the beds of corpses.
Give most persons an official position
and it is the surest way of putting them
to sleep, but when Vincent is made
chaplain-general of the royal galleys he
uses his position to further the dream he
has. When he is sitting on a gilded chair
on the poop along with a lot of other
high officials and sees the almost
incredible cruelty meted out to the
convict rowers he doesn’t read them a
sermon on being content with their
station; he knocks down one of the task-
masters and takes the place of a half-
dead oarsman, which gives his colleagues
a greater shock than floggings and
torture.
When he is sent as cure to the plague-
ridden town of Chatillon and finds
every door closed against him and stones
being rained on him from the windows,
he goes straight to the lord’s chateau,
where the gentlemen and ladies have
locked themselves in as they did in
Boccaccio’s day, and is told that a plague-
smitten woman and her daughter have
been walled up in the village to die of
starvation. He gets the woman properly
buried and carries her daughter off to his
own room, and thus started a movement
culminated in St. Lazare in Paris.
This French film is done with the same
artistic restraint as most of its predeces-
sors, and the producers have an advan-
ce over Hollywood inasmuch as they
can recreate the period merely by
peopling the lovely architecture of the
appropriate French town with their
Peasants, paupers and princesses, and it
oks the real thing. Pierre Fresnay in
e name part both looks it and acts it.
"Undercover Man."
Vi?> Columbia manhunt, at Sydney
a** a PP ears t° be based, with little
hnw tt S, am ouflage, on the story of
dragged 0 ® S A I i nS r taxation P eo P le .finally
charge u A Capone on tax-evasion
down no one e^se cou lfi pin him
investor the st . ory of a U.S. Treasury
E& r A atientl y wadin S through
ds of books, reports and figures.
and searching house by house for more
books and figures, seems unlikely material
for a crime film, it is to the credit of
the director, Robert Rossen, that he has
manipulated the material into an arresting
and often exciting narrative.
The film gets its effect in three ways.
With an economical cast it contrives to
convey the baffled fury of the police who
cannot bring in the “big fellow” or his
hirelings and who bum their fingers badly
more often than not when they try. With
similar economy it also suggests die vast-
ness and rottenness of the gangster king-
dom —the double-crossings, the killings,
the bribery and corruption, and the fear
of the man-in-the-street to see, hear or
say anything of the criminal organisation
holding his city in its grip. And, finally,
mainly through the quiet and capable
acting of Glenn Ford, as the Treasury
official, it puts over very well the tireless
patience and the inexorability of the
Government.
There are a couple of well-staged
killings in the film, but the main excite-
“Will you pass it along , sir? The projector has broken down."
ment develops in a quieter vein as the
Treasury bloodhound, at first regarded
with good-natured contempt by his
quarry, picks up the scent and begins to
worry the criminals. An informer is
killed off, witnesses are bribed, the law
is twisted to defeat the law, but very
slowly and surely the official closes in
until the whole criminal organisation
takes fright, totters and collapses.
The supporting roles —police, gangsters,
witnesses and particularly Barry Kelley’s
bland and skilful lawyer fronting for the
rackets—are excellently played, and the
busy cosmopolitan city which evinces a
passing interest and a passing fear as
the drama is played out in its midst is
admirably represented.
"Francis."
This highly diverting Universal
comedy, at Sydney Lyceum, has Donald
O’Connor as a young second-lieutenant
in Burma who strikes up an acquaintance
with a talking mule, a most entertaining
beast with a host of information on enemy
movements and a fund of dry, sardonic
comments on second-lieutenants, generals,
the Army, the Press and talking mules.
Francis, the mule, leads the second-
lieutenant on several very successful
forays against the enemy, and the young
man’s explanations to his C.O. as to the
source of his information land him just
as regularly in the psychiatric ward mak-
ing wicker-baskets. Finally, when the
commanding general of the area has con-
versed with Francis, and is himself being
watched rather closely by the psychi-
atrists, the mule opens up for the benefit
of all and sundry, including a dozen Press
correspondents.
“Tell me,” says one. “How did you
first learn to talk?”
“How the hell did you first learn to
talk?” says Francis with remarkable
logic.
Like most war heroes, Francis is sent
home to sell war bonds and, as far as
the film is concerned, is still there, hum-
ming idle tunes in his luxurious stable
and greeting all doubters with a tired
“Must we go over all this again?”
"Portrait from Life."
Suspense is the main ingredient of this
English film at Sydney Embassy. It con-
cerns the quixotic search by a British
Army officer on leave from Western Ger-
many throughout D.P. camps for a girl
whose portrait, painted by a Canadian
war-artist and hung in a London art
exhibition, haunts him. The air of
mystery which surrounds the girl’s sup-
posed family in the D.P. camp to which
he eventually tracks her down is cleverly
devised and sustained. One scene, in
which the “father,” a disguised Nazi war
criminal, stalks and finally liquidates in
a forest at night a fellow-German who
has talked too much, is an 18-carat
chiller.
Mai Zetterling, as the subject of the
search, and Guy Rolf, as the rather
phlegmatic Army officer, give good per-
formances ; the “father,” Herbert Lorn,
is as menacing as a pocketful of fish-
hooks.
"The History of Mr. Polly."
This is a film version of the H. G. Wells
story of the meek little man who, driven
to despair through years of incessant
nagging by the wife he was manoeuvred
into marrying by a masterful aunt, sets
fire to his little town shop while his wife
is at church, squibs the suicide he had
intended making and lights out for the
freedom of rural places which has called
him all his frustrated life.
From this point an indefinable charm
pervades the film, owing mainly to the
naturalness of the unnamed actress who
plays the buxom, early-middle-aged widow
at whose small hostelry Mr. Polly is en-
gaged as general handyman. There is
no attempt to portray Mr. Polly, played
by John Mills with considerable insight,
as anything but the weak, physical coward
nature made him; his casting-away in
terror the gun which afterwards explodes
and kills the lumbering drunkard who
chases him across the fields is perfectly
in keeping with the Wells character.
* * * *
Intended for showing in schools and
other educational functions, the C.S.R.
has had made three films dealing with
the cultivation and processing of sugar.
Well photographed and documented by
Cinesound, the trio of shorts is a useful
addition to the country’s documentaries,
and they deserve a wider showing than is
intended.
"The BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 65
I—Th c Across.
Aus to endure
3-A Uld of a shoe - (4)
blind f]ye^ 0r ( 7 i S 3) operating on a
‘( 3 ) ’
la dy-friend Sld tli Ce k letS £ hopin ’ s
fashinnpH . tele phone the old-
12—sw° ned actor - Hi)
13 common. a (9) Ut Tallinn; ifs vef y
. awkward vessel is an
P la yer. (3)
. 51 were rtf a b’Hckfellow before
ihyS^Tf) o®-(9) 0 ®- (9)
d f ° r a vestment. (3)
ra,s? °W) by these
earth unnn Steak . de ) cribin g the
<’) buck ' s
2g Van dais, (U) ntUr y wb ' cb endures
2 9 _^rgi n i° f duc k followed by
3^S C s P oilt an item of a
(4) nt serves cayenne with ease.
(CRYPTIC type.)
Down.
1 — Do I allow the coronet mous-
tache to take the floor-covering
of Napoleon’s mother? (7, 8)
2 Imitation derision given by a
hairdresser. (7)
4 Senor is spoilt by folk from the
opposite end of Western Europe.
(5)
5 Thus many degrees are right hot.
(6)
6 Graduate meat like some islands.
(7)
7 Although often heard in bars,
watchmakers give satisfaction.
(4, 5,6)
8 — He practises self-mortification
like a hundred to quote the
wrong way. (7)
11—Below a town in Wales. (5)
15 —Organ. (3)
17—Her upset river in England to
provide new quarters. (7)
19 —Character in an old song urges
Chifley to skedaddle. (7)
21 — Monsters in gorse. (5)
22 Poet is shortly to surround the
donkey. (7)
23 — What happens on the first
Tuesday in November to duck
the French dome? (6)
26 —Act was in the van when meted
out. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 64.


MODERN • POWERFUL • RELIABLE
AVAUABIf /MMIDMTtiy
K
7. >
i
.1
The "MARS" 3 h.p. Diesel Engine
lip I
WSsm S
> h
Q L
m
m
asm
m
■ i
mm
■■■
m
m
m
The "MAKS" 8 h.p. and 10 h.p.
Diesel Engine
mm
i
a
The "MARS" 5 h.p. Diesel Engine
GUARANTEE
All “Mars” Diesel Engines are
guaranteed for 12 months against
faulty workmanship and /or
inferior material.
“Mars” Diesels are made by the manufacturers
of the well-known “Mars” Precision Lathes,
Shapers, Planers, Plain and Universal Milling
Machines, Radial Drills and Universal and
Semi-Universal Dividing Heads.
Outstanding Features of
"MARS" Diesel Engines ;
1— SLOW RUNNING
2 BOSCH INJECTION
3 WATER COOLED
4 REPLACEABLE LINERS
5 SENSITIVE GOVERNOR
CONTROL
6 DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED
CRANKSHAFT AND
FLYWHEEL
7 -SMOOTHER RUNNING
8— LESS WEAR AND TEAR
9 PRE-START
LUBRICATION
RELIABILITY
“Mars” Diesel Engines are fitted with
Tested Bosch Type Fuel Injection
equipment with adequate provision
for efficient filtration, thus ensuring
a constant fuel supply maintaining
uniform power under all working
loads.
a
s ' j
m
mm
CASTINGS
All castings are produced in the
“Mars” Foundry, under the super-
vision of a highly-trained metallurgical
and laboratory staff. We manufac-
ture all 21 grades of MEEHANITE
IRONS.
Distributing Agents
N.S.W- —Gibson Battle & Co.
Sydney. W.A.-The Western Machm^
Co. Ltd., Perth. India ' B ? m J? y mb L port
R. S. Mehta & Co., AUx cha ® £ va ns,
Bombay. Sales
C/- Bank of N.S.W.. Port »
C/- Bank
Papua.
INTERSTATE AGENTS
WANTED
a.* 3
m
m
m
<9
Si
O
m
©
s
a
ns®
The "MARS" 8 h.p. and 10 h.p. Marine Diesel Engine
MAKING THE WIDEST RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE^
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
MANFO.CO.PTY.LTD
BRISBANE
BRIDGE ST. VALLEY
j^O-S-Ad-'*
