

>
A PRODUCT OF THE
F F
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
70-YEAR PAGEANT-STORIES, VERSE, ART
M w m T 7
•The Bulletin,” Vol. 71— No. 3051
Wednesday, February 1, 1950
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
SOUTHAMPTON'S BARGATE BESPEAKS ITS ANCIENT HISTORY
OF the many historic buildings to be seen in Southampton, the
most famous are the Old Town walls, thirty to forty feet high
and extending one and a quarter miles in circumference, which
defended the original town. The walls were strengthened at
intervals by towers, and entrance to the town was gained by six
principal gates, three of which are still standing. Although the
present walls date mainly from the fourteenth century, they replace
an earlier fortification erected by the Saxons in the mnth century,
when the settlement was known as Hamptunscire. In 837 Southamp-
ton was attacked by the Danes ; Olaf ind Sweyn wintered there in
994, and so powerful was Danish influence that the settlement, not
unwisely, supported Canute, who was there elected king.
After a disastrous raid by the French, who burned and sacked
more than half of the town during the reign of Edward 111 (1327-
1377), the walls were rebuilt and strengthened. The famous Bargate,
shown in this illustration, which was the ancient north gate of the
c i ty st yi dominates Southampton’s main street. Its central archway
and flanking towers date mainly from 1338, although it incorporates
some earlie ~ work as well as the mac hicolated parapet added in the
Perpendicular period. The figures of the lions and armorial decora-
comparatively modern. Over the archway is the chamber
. v, ~ i, ... ,
k ? own as . th ? G>nldhaU whtch, until modern t.mes was the centre
of municipal life in Southampton the Magistrate s Court only
moving from it in 1934, when the Law Courts were opened in the
new Civic Centre.


Tlorti Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
I ly Name
My Address »••••*.
S.B. 250 AGF
The Red Page
Some " Bulletin” History.
Founded by J. F. Archibald and John
Haynes, The Bulletin made its debut on
Saturday, January 31, 1880. Archibald
had not long turned 24 ; Haynes was six
years older. Both were Australian-born ;
both had a background of newspaper
experiences, and were with the Sydney
“Evening News” when Haynes conceived
fee idea of The Bulletin. Archibald was
the more literary-minded; Haynes had
the better head for business.
Archibald once referred to his partner
a “Dear old John Haynes, half fat
priest, and half fat comedian.” Haynes
could use his tongue sharply and wittily.
Henry Parkes, five times Premier of N. S.
Wales —he was in office when The
Bulletin was founded—fancied himself
as a poet, and one day ran across Haynes,
writing in the N. S. Wales Parliamentary
Library. “Ha, Mr. Haynes! Are you
writing a poem?” cried Parkes. Haynes,
quick as a flash, replied, “No, Sir Henry!
I’m like you—never wrote a line of poetry
in my life.”
The two partners had managed to raise
about £l4O, just enough to buy a little
Ludlow type and some credit, and
launched their venture from a small office
and composing-room at the back of a
billiard saloon at 107 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, rented to them by kindly Carl
Scholer. After a counter had been built
and two small rooms for the use of the
proprietors, there was little space for the
compositors. Packing-cases served as
desks and the editorial chair, according to
Fred Broomfield, was fashioned from a
barrel.
Archibald wrote most of the first issue
—he even set up some of the type—and
was helped by Haynes, two erratic free-
lances named Bunster and Kearney, and
Jim O’Neill, an enormous and friendly
Irishman who had edited the “Illustrated
Sydney News.” O’Neill was a non-stop
drinker, and used the editor’s office as a
sleeping-place when the pubs closed
around about midnight. He disappeared
early in The Bulletin’s struggle for a
crust.
Haynes had arranged for the paper to
be printed at the office of the “Express,”
a religious weekly now long in its grave,
but portion of the first issue offended one
of its directors and he “dissed” a
page of Bulletin type by putting his
boot through the metal.
Undaunted by the “accident,” Haynes,
dashed around to the “Freeman’s
Journal,” another religious weekly, and
coaxed its manager, Michael McGirr, to
machine the first issue. Michael McGirr
delivered the paper to time, and Haynes,
who had fired the imagination of the city
newsboys, and had them anxiously wait-
ing for copies as they came damp from
the press, attended with his usual energy
to the distribution.
“There is no reason for much pride
over the earlier issues of The Bulletin.
It was at first a poor thing indeed,” wrote
Archibald in the “Lone Hand” in 1907.
Beginning as an eight-page paper, it was
poorly printed, and was without its now
familiar cover. The first issue was sold
at 4d. a copy, the price was reduced to
3d. as from the second number, and was
raised to 6d. on May 19, 1883, when it
was cloaked in a red cover. The first issue
had a circulation of 3000 copies and sold
out in a few hours. It was “something
different,” and within a short time was
boasting of a number of imitators. At
three weeks the circulation stood at 5000,
and had soared to 20,000 at the end of
the first year.
The top portion of page one was taken
up with the name of the paper done in
ornamental lettering, embellished with
floreats and superimposed upon a scene
of Sydney Harbor. This title-head was
used until 1886, when it was replaced by
the script well-known to Bulletin
readers. This script was designed by
William Macleod, made bolder in recent
years by Ted Scorfield, and has been
copied by a “Bulletin” as far abroad as
Glasgow
Haynes had wanted the new venture
called the “Tribune,” and had in mind
modelling it upon a successful American
paper, the “San Francisco News Letter
and California Advertiser,” famous
for its boldness of expression, pithy para-
graphs and devastating cartoons. Archi-
bald’s in titles was the “Lone
Hand,” and his model was a short-lived
audacious Sydney weekly called the
“Stockwhip and Satirist,” which made the
ears of the respectable burn during the
middle eighteen-seventies. Twenty-seven
years later Archibald founded a monthly
magazine called the “Lone Hand, 5 ' which
was run by The Bulletin for seven years,
and which has a history' of its own.
The main attraction of the first issue
the “double-spread” account of the
hanging of Scott and Rogan, the Wanta-
badgery bushrangers, at Darlinghurst jail.
It was a sensational piece of journalism
in which none of the horrors was spared.
It was written by Archibald and illus-
trated by William Macleod and Samuel
Begg. There was a startling interview
with the hangman, “Nosey Bob” Howard.
Said Howard: “It wouldn’t, for instance,
do to put the knot under the chin. If
you did that there’d be the chance of
scratching the man’s neck and drawing
blood, and if there was a single drop of
blood the Press’d be down on me.”
After the third issue the printing was
taken from “Freeman’s Journal.” It has
been said that Archibald had scruples
about using oaths on the premises of a
religious publication. A*firm named Lee
and Ross got the contract for running off
the issues, and The Bulletin supplied
the set-up formes and the paper. Finding
the cash to pay the paper merchants, who
J. F. ARCHIBALD.
insisted upon their money in advance, was
a perpetual nightmare. Raising the wind
for the staff’s wages on paydays was an-
other headache. Often the staff would
be fobbed off with cheques on a Saturday
after the banks had closed. Then some-
one would have to hustle around the
newsagencies on Monday morning in
order to collect and deposit in the bank
sufficient cash to meet the wages cheques.
When Archibald and Haynes rose to
the dignity of ownership of an ancient
one-feed printing machine they considered
that they had left behind a lot of their
troubles. But the paper merchant con-
tinued to haunt them. On one occasion
he padlocked the wheel of the printing
machine and refused to unlock it until the
account was settled. Dan O’Connor, a
Sydney politician, from whom the hard-
up proprietors had borrowed money, had
to put a bailiff in before he could get his
cash back.
About the middle of 1880 The
Bulletin moved to 13 Bridge-street, on
portion of the site of Sydney’s first
lumber-yard. It was here that convict
artisans employed by the Government
had worked. Dean Cowper in his
memoirs stated that, as a boy, he heard
the cries of the unfortunate prisoners
being flogged as he passed the yard.
At this address the paper received its
first writ for libel, issued by a Thomas
Robertson, a man-about-town, who felt
that his reputation had been seriously
damaged by a paragraph written by the
unconventional Theodore Emile Argles
(“Harold Grey”), the scapegrace son of
a London solicitor. It was settled out of
court and cost the struggling partners
£lOOO.
There was also served at 13 Bridge-
street the famous Clontarf libel writ.
Issued by the Moore brothers, it arose
out of a leader, “The Larrikin Residuum,”
printed on January 8, 1881. , In the article,
W. H. Traill, then running Reuter’s
agency in Sydney, gave a vivid description
of the larrikinism that went on at
Clontarf, a Sydney Harbor pleasure resort
patronised by the rowdy young element
of the period. It was the most talked-
about libel suit in the paper’s early
history, though it was not as important in
principle as the Atacama case of 17 years
later. The case gave the paper its first
big boost, and introduced it to a number
of influential people who hardly knew it
existed.
The . plaintiffs were awarded one
farthing damages, but the taxed and later
costs in connection with an appeal
amounted to about £l5OO. Public sub-
scriptions reduced The Bulletin’s debt
by about £BOO, and for the unpaid balance
of £7OO Archibald and Haynes were
arrested and lodged in Darlinghurst jail.
They stayed there for six weeks until the
debt was paid by friends outside, includ-
ing Dan O’Connor, the man who had put
a bailiff in earlier in their stormy career.
Before their spell in jail The Bulletin
had, moved again—this time from 13
Bridge-street to a two-story building at
24 Pitt-street, within a stone’s throw of
Circular Quay, and the control of the
paper had passed out of their hands into
those of W. H. Traill, who also took over
the editorship from Archibald. Five
years later Archibald regained control of
the paper and was to become editor
again, but Haynes, who could not get on
with Traill —the feeling was mutual —left
the paper shortly after his release from
jail, never to return.
Traill was the first man to mount a
12-inch gun on The Bulletin's, editorial
ramparts. “Before Traill’s day we were
puny little paragraphists—hurlers of
squibs merely. From his time onwards
The Bulletin became a solid political
and social power,” wrote Archibald of
Traill.
An Orkney Islander, “Old Man”
Traill—-as he was known on the Inky Way
—had worked under Gresley Luk’in, and
with Ernest Favenc and James Brunton
Stephens on the Brisbane “Courier,” and
had edited the “Sydney Mail.” Among
his best services to The Bulletin, to
journalism, and to Australia were the
engagements of Livingston Hopkins
(“Hop”) and Phil May as artists. With
these two men, girding together at all
sorts of Australian humbug, and opening
out new sources of Australian humor,
“Old Man” Traill was seen at his very
best.
As editor, Traill began making foot-
prints in the paths of democracy. The
paper gave him his opportunity, and he
gave it a platform and a policy. Up to
the time Traill entered the paper
politics had not been a marked feature
of The Bulletin, but from his accession
it impressed his intellectual strenuousness
and courage upon the disorganised
democracy of the day.
Archibald once remarked that Traill
took a very practical interest in the
paper’s welfare “from the production of
a brilliantly unanswerable leader to the
phlegmatic explosions of an obsolete gas
engine.”
Physically a big man, he could always
be depended upon in an emergency,
especially when the cellar of the Pitt-
street building, which housed a cranky
gas engine, became flooded with a seep-
age from the Tank Stream. It was a
frequent sight to see the burly form of
Traill, in his singlet, squeezing through a
manhole and blundering with much
sweating through the slush to attend to
the refractory engine.
A mah also of forthright speech, he
once ordered a pair of belligerent callers
out of his office with the threat : “Clear
out! Clear out, or I’ll throw you down
the steps, and then grind your skulls on
the doorstep.”
While the Pitt-street home was a great
improvement on the Castlereagh-street
and the Bridge-street offices, it was little
better than a warren with dingy passages
and stuffy little offices. The lighting was
inferior, the furniture decrepit, and the
floors everlastingly littered with unwanted
manuscripts. And, after a cloudburst,
the press-room had to be bailed out like
a leaky boat. Still, it was no worse than
many other newspaper offices of the time,
and it was to serve the paper’s needs until
it moved to 214 George-street in 1896.
The Pitt-street home —“Hop” described
it *as “a long, narrow, two-story building,
shaped dike the blade of a mortising
chisel” —still stands, and was the haunt
of as strange a collection of characters
that has ever plagued a newspaper office.
Housed in the present Bulletin home
is an historic piece of furniture from the
old Pitt-street premises—the famous
Bulletin bench. When this paper was at
Pitt-street, the then manager, Silas Harding,
decided to prevent deadbeats and others
from roaming all over the building, and
had a counter built across the front office,
erected a high wire-door giving access to
the rear, and put the historic bench on
the floor-space in front of the counter.
While the bench was at Pitt-street and
afterwards at 214 George-street, it was
accepted as the rendezvous for most of
the paper s contributors (and drinkers)
m its earlier days. Some of the bench’s
history has been told by W H Fast
Harold Mercer and Hilary Lofting. On
£ iS ? e f 6 ’ home from
Sea ®’° f ten had a pleasant snooze,
and Ernest Favenc and poet John Farrell
swapped many a yarn. From the old
bench Harry Morant (“The Breaker ')
said good-bye to a host of Bohemian
mends before his departure to the South
African war and his execution before a
firing-squad. Phil May, one foot resting
on the bench, is said to have modelled the
<™F icature °f himself which he
labelled That’s Me When I’m Old.” On
the bench Rod Quinn smiled at Hugh
McCrae, who roared with wild laughter
at Rod’s gentle humor. Or Fred Broom-
held boomed the literature of the world
at all who would listen. Names that are
forgotten now sat on the bench awaiting
a cheque from Tom McMahon, the
accountant: P. T. Freeman, Steve
O Bnen Perce Abbott, Stefan von Kotze,
Archibald Meston and Phillip J. Holds-
worth.
Holdsworth, who broke into The
Bulletin’s pages in 1885, belonged to
the Kendall epoch; he was Kendall’s
helpful friend and constant companion.
With Victor Daley he attended Kendall’s
funeral. At the graveside he said to Daley
with tears in his eyes: “Ah, Victor,
Harpur’s gone! Deniehy’s gone!
Kendall’s gone! There’s only you and
me now.”
An ostentatious dresser, Holdsworth’s
frock-coat, high hat and spats were the
pride of Pott’s Point, but were regarded
with suspicion by The Bulletin
Bohemians. One day, arrayed in all his
glory, he called at The Bulletin office.
Said the office-boy to Archibald: “There’s
a man outside waiting to be paid for a
poem.” “Who is he?” asked Archibald.
“I don’t know,” said the lad, “but by the
look of him I should say it is the
Governor.”
In contrast to Holdsworth, John Farrell
a quaint and rugged, philosopher, big-
hearted and cheerful—had no weakness
for fine raiment. When Farrell was edit-
ing the Sydney “Daily Telegraph” it was
hinted that he should adorn himself up
to his position, Farrell took the hint and
arrayed himself splendidly. / He might
have been noticed a few days after, bell-
topper on the back of his head, hitching
up the tails of his resplendent frock-coat
to light a match as he yarned with an
alcoholic lamplighter.
Elsewhere in this issue Norman
Lindsay has written about “Hop” and
Phil May— two of the giants of the Pitt-
street days. Two others who loomed as
large in their way were the irrepressible
Theodore Argles, who let The Bulletin
in for the Robertson libel action, and
Victor Daley, most beloved of all the old
Bohemians. The two were close com-
panions from the time they were intro-
duced by Richmond Thatcher in a hotel
where Argles was in the habit of con-
suming large quantities of absinthe, which
he sometimes shared with his greyhound
Rose.
A free-handed Ishmaelite, Argles was
as ready to spend, or lend, as to borrow.
He borrowed with a consummate ease
and grace probably modelled upon the
charming style of that peerless borrower,
Marcus Clarke, his literary godfather.
Argles said to Daley when they
were talking about Henry Kendall, who
had just died: “I don’t care what they
say about me when I’m gone, so long as
they don’t say 'He was no # man’s enemy
but his own’. ’ And that was precisely
the first thing they did say after his death.
For a time Daley and Argles lived to-
gether in rooms at Darlinghurst. Often
they would write all through the night.
There would be a bottle between them,
and Argles would nibble his tfay through
a plateful of sliced lemons and chillies—
the hottest and reddest of their kind. And
Argles had a dainty way of dipping his
pen carelessly into the ink and writing
as if he was inscribing on the wings of a
butterfly.
Between Daley, of whom Rod Quinn
has said: “When he talked he made every
moment rich with charm,” and Archibald


thpre was a strong bond of affection.
Archibald used to say that Poets don t
want money, Victor; they want manna-
and the saying always caused
Daley great delight Archibald was a
aenerous dispenser of jam, but he gave his
g ts money as well. It was something
Sew this paying for contributions. True,
Sr papers before The Bulletin paid
forccmtnbutions, but the money was
doled out begrudgingly. Archibald threw
the whole of the paper open to the efforts
of any writer, with the one proviso that
they must be interesting, and paid for
every line he used. , , . A
In his quest for the distinctive in Aus-
tralian prose and poetry, Archibald would
often say “Let ’em all come!” And they
came; a stalwart crowd competing to-
gether in a variety of moods, styles and
S who wro t e for the paper in
Archibald’s time ran in all shapes.
“Banjo” Paterson was a lawyer-turned-
journalist. Henry Lawson was a bush-
man house-painter, for a while school-
teacher. John Farrell was a brewer.
James Brunton Stephens, Peter Airey and
Dowell O’Reilly were schoolteachers.
Hugh McCrae worked in an architect’s
office. Bernard O’Dowd was in a law
library, and Chris Brennan and John Le
Gay Brereton were university professors.
Sydney Jephcott was (and is) a stock-
breeder on the Upper Murray; Will
Ogilvie, who still writes from Scotland,
was a jackeroo; and Harry Morant a
horsebreaker. C. H. Souter was a South
Australian doctor and James Hebble-
thwaite a Tasmanian clergyman. Arthur
Bayldon was a tea-salesman and profes-
sional swimmer ; Louis Becke a super-
cargo, and Edward Dyson worked in the
mines. Randolph Bedford was a junior
reporter, and Hubert Church, George
Gordon McCrae, P. J. Holdsworth and
Henry Halloran were civil servants.
Roderic Quinn worked for a potato
merchant, Ted Brady was a shipping
clerk, Ernest Favenc an explorer and
Frank Donohue (“Arthur Gayll”) was
once in a monastery.
All these wrote for Archibald, as did
William Astley (“Price Waning”), ill-
fated Francis Adams and Barcroft Boake,
Edmund Fisher, Arthur Davis (“Steele
Rudd”), Albert Dorrington, G. Essex
Evans, E. S. Sorensen, Arthur H. Adams,
Frank Morton (son of a Baptist grocer
and an outstanding Bohemian), W. T.
Goodge—he wrote “The Great Australian
Adjective”—Thos. E. Spencer, of “How
M’Dougal Topped the Score” fame ; and
among the women, Mary Gilmore,
Barbara Baynton, Ethel Turner and
Louise Mack.
As an editor Archibald’s strong points
were his journalistic flair —he knew news ;
and he knew men and their minds—his
encouragement of young and unknown
writers, and his policy of allowing the
contributors to say what they wanted to
say. He did not try, like many editors, to
make his contributors over into mirrors
and echoes of his own opinions. He left
good contributors alone, and he turned
hostile contributors into a readable jest
with a line of introduction.
was ‘ served with many
capable staff men and women who gravi-
tated to him, and very few quitted him
voluntarily after they had found him.
un? n j rl s earl V su b-editors were dapper
Wilfred Blacket, who left The Bulletin
o study law and become a K.C.; pic-
turesque Fred J. Broomfield, once a book-
Keeper for a pianomaker and, in after
years, a prominent figure in Sydney
Bohemian circles and a founder of the
Dawn and Dusk Club; and George
Black, afterwards a Labor politician,
whose prose had a scholarly touch.
-Another Wf s Henry C. Cargill (“The
p omamac ). A talented journalist, he
diHth Wl l e and storm Y career, and never
rili 6 re lve a man better fitte d by genial
wnriff S i and errat . ic gifts to typify the
of which Henri Murger wrote.
Melbnn W » r A ked „ f ? r David Syme of the
Age before coming to The
emni' During a dispute with his
Svml of CargiU became heated and
the wins t 0 thrOW him through
Svm W nd Dye think I’ ll not do it?”
asSvmfrn' f Cargi i l made for the door
do fro . m hls desk - “Oh, you’d
--if onlv' * CargllL “ You ’ d do il > 1 know
it only l 0 save wear and tear on the
Archibald and t 0 beCOme a worry to
we? e th Ai^ b t? itorS in Archibald’s time
who wm? Montgomery (“Sardonyx”),
rm Brn T Px me fi * e Malayan Yarns for
Renar”! u’ Frank Fox (“Frank
tL “L o ;7m° se,5 e ,? ame first editor of
by the a u d Wh ° was not liked
writffie r - because of bis hand-
violet mkandp disarrangement in
under Frank Myers, who wrote
uSSaJ" nom-de-plume o£ “Tele-
It ’, a ’
■.n v '<o V . " c hat Myers was the
ever silenced John
Robertson, one-time Premier of N. S.
Wales. Myers pinned Robertson once to
the wall of the Athenaeum Club, and
treated him to a scathing denunciation of
the Free Selection Act and dwelt upon the
greed, the perjury and the roguery the
Act had begotten, and wound up with a
terrific picture of the permanent degrada-
tion of society due to Robertson’s intro-
duction of the Act. The rhetoric swept
Robertson off his mental legs ; he listened
speechless to the end ; and when he was
let go shuffled to the bar before he uttered
the single comment, “Brandy, by God!”
The most important appointments to
the literary staff during Archibald’s
second editorship, however, were A. G.
Stephens and James Edmond. It was
“A.G.S.” the “three-initialled Terror,” as
Joseph Furphy (“Tom Collins”) called
him, who founded and edited the “Red
Page” for 10 years. From August, 1896,
until October, 1906, when he left The
Bulletin in a “huff and a hurry” to open
a bookshop in Hamilton-street, Sydney,
and to, revive the “Bookfellow,” he
was, as it were, the Chief Justice of
Literature in Australia. He wrote as he
pleased and suffered no interference from
his superiors. The “Red Page” was under
his absolute control. He used it as a
domain in which to preach his generally
sound views on literature. He pricked
many bubbles, but he encouraged and
fostered scores of young writers who
showed sincerity, who had something to
say, and who knew how to say that
something. And, above all, he was
ardently and passionately Australian, in-
sisting, week in and week out, that Aus-
tralian writers should think in terms of
Australia as well as of their art.
While Stephens did wonderful service
on the “Red Page,” his help went beyond
that. Archibald was a superb sub-editor
in the sense that he could compress a
shapeless 20 lines into a glittering half-
dozen ; but when a short-story had to go
out under the name of the author, and
where the manner of the writer had to be
preserved, he preferred Stephens’s work to
his own. What Stephens was thus able to
do for Henry Lawson in those early days
—and for many another, including “Steele
Rudd” and “Tom Collins”—was consider-
able. His encouragement of John Shaw
Neilson and Robert Crawford put them
on the literary map of Australia.
“Red Page” editors since A. G.
Stephens have been Arthur H. Adams,
Bertram David McKee Wright,
Cecil Mann, John Bede Dailey and
Douglas Stewart.
Incidentally, The Bulletin has also
had the same number of writers of its
Sydney “Woman’s Letter”: Pattie Lewis,
Ina Wildman (“Sappho Smith”), Florence
Blair (“Cleo”), Louise Mack (“Goulli-
Goul”), Agnes Conor O’Brien
(“Akenehi”), - Margaret Cox - Taylor
(“Vandorian”) and Nora Kelly, the
paper’s present social editress and a
graceful writer of verse.
James Edmond was just the man that
Archibald needed. The withdrawal of
Traill in 1886 had left the paper without
a substantial political writer. Archibald
knew practically nothing about politics
and had little interest in the subject.
Traill, who had, while editor, seen some
of Edmond’s first contributions, noted in
him a trenchant political writer, with
large views like his own. Archibald saw
in him a priceless humorist —a man who
could supplement his own incisive wit.
A tremendous worker, Edmond could
sit at his desk for incredibly long hours
each day for months on end without
showing the least sign of physical or
mental fatigue. In this respect he differed
greatly from Archibald, who worked only
as the mood took him and who often
cracked up.
For 16 years under Archibald, Edmond
shouldered the responsibility for the poli-
tical and financial pages of The Bulletin,
and allowed his chief to devote his time
to the search for poets and story-writers
who were to put the paper among the
foremost literary journals of the world.
From 1902 until 1915, James Edmond was
editor, and from 1915 until his death in
1933 a voluminous contributor.
A great humorist was lost to the world
when circumstances made of Edmond a
great editor. The mere fact that he be-
came the wittiest Australian editor of his
time hardly made up, in many people’s
opinion, for the loss suffered by the thin
ranks of world humorists. From time to
time, however, Edmond escaped from the
leading-strings of his editorial columns
and gave The Bulletin stories and verse.
They were collected into a volume called
A Journalist and Two Bears, the title
story of which is printed in this issue.
Benign and benevolent as Edmond was
in his relations with his staff and contri-
butors he was capable of drastic action
when moved. At one time somebody
disagreed with something which Edmond
had written, and sent word to the effect
that he was coming in at an early moment
to punish the editor. Not at all perturbed,
Edmond dispatched the office-boy to a
hardware store to buy an axe, “a good
big one of the sort you can swing easily,”
he instructed the lad. Wl\en the latter
returned with the weapon, Edmond placed
it alongside his desk, in such a position
that he could reach it in a second. Per-
haps the would-be caller heard of these
preparations, for he never came near The
Bulletin office, but for years afterwards
the axe reposed alongside the desk, wait-
ing for him if he ever did drop in for his
promised chat with the editor.
Archibald had a flair for picking the
right man for the right job—his selection
of Stephens, Edmond and S. H. Prior
proved that. So did his invitation to
William Macleod in 1886 to join the staff
as manager in place of the somewhat
temperamental Silas Harding. When
Archibald regained control of the paper
from Traill in the same year its financial,
foundations were rather shaky, and
Archibald needed a solid man like
Macleod to take charge of the counting-
house.
What attracted Archibald to Macleod?
One reason is to be found in Archibald’s
likeness for fat men. “Meagre myself
and introspective, X have ever respected
the fat man,” said Archibald. “When
John Haynes left me I gleefully spied
out another fat man in William Macleod,
to whom, for many a long year, I have
grappled myself with hoops of steel. Fat
means peace, and sleep, and self-forget-
fulness and happiness. The other thing
spells nerves and self-consciousness and
misery, bromide of potassium, chloral,
ether, opium and all the hypnotic deriva-
tions of the aniline dyes.”
As manager, and later managing-
director, William Macleod rendered
magnificent service to The Bulletin. He
put the paper on a firm footing, steered it
through the Atacama, Billie Barlow and
Roberts libel actions, and on the art side
—he was an artist himself —was in a large
measure responsible for improving the
pictorial appeal of the paper. When
Norman Macleod relieved his father of
much of the business cares the elder
Macleod, while still managing-director,
took over the duties of art-editor ; and in
that capacity was guide, philosopher and
friend to countless young artistic aspirants
who climbed to his office.
William Macleod must have signed at
least half a million Bulletin “Micawber”
cheques. Designed by “Hop,” this docu-
ment has a picture of Micawber uttering
the words “Thank Heavens! That’s
paid,” and has been the paper’s bank-
cheque form for over 60 years. It has
been a frequent occurrence in The
Bulletin’s history for persons to whom
a “Micawber” cheque has been sent to
request its return for framing purposes
after it has been cashed and cancelled
by the bank.
It was William Macleod who moved
the paper from 24 Pitt-street to 214
George-street in 1896. There it remained
for 35 years. Within 10 years of settling
down it occupied an additional building
at the rear with a frontage to Underwood-
street. The rear building was completely
and the front building partly destroyed
by fire in 1947. Two years ago the cedar
staircase that ran from the ground-floor
to the editorial-floor above was bought
by H. K. Prior, The Bulletin’s present
managing-director, and is waiting to be
built into the paper’s present home.
As was said at the time of the pur-
chase : “The famous old Bulletin stairs,
celebrated more than once in song and
story... . ended nowhere in particular for
a lot of people who climbed them in the
old days; but quite a few walked up
them to immortality—minor or major—
in Australian literature; and in art and
politics.”
Almost all the famous figures who
made Bulletin history in the ’eighties
and ’nineties and who had sat and
yarned on the old Bulletin bench at 24
Pitt-street climbed the stairs. Henry
Lawson climbed them for 26 years until
the day before his death in 1922 ; and
so did Chris Brennan until not long be-
fore his death in 1932.
The dawn of the 20th century and the
following years saw the appearance of a
legion of new writers and artists. Some
of them got staff positions. It has
always been The Bulletin’s policy to
recruit when possible members of its
editorial staff from the ranks of its con-
tributors ; two-thirds of its present staff
were once outside writers.
Among those contributors who joined
the staff during the first 10 years of this
century were names that were to loom
high in Australian literature in later
years. Arthur H. Adams, poet, novelist
and playwright and one-time “Red Page”
editor, was on and off The Bulletin
over a long period of years. So was the
effervescent John Bede Dailey, who was
drowned at Avalon (N.S.W.) in 1935.
Another was Bertram Stevens, the “gentle
anthologist” as he was called, who edited
both the “Red Page” and the “Lone
Hand.” Other newcomers to the staff
about the same period were Ernest
O’Ferrall (“Kodak”), who looked like a
curate and wrote convivial drunk
stories; gentle-voiced David McKee
Wright, a writer of Irish verse under
his own name and countless topical
pieces under half_a dozen nom-de-plumes
—“Curse o’ Moses” was one of them —
and C. A. Jeffries, author of “The Shep-
herd Kings of Canterbury” and “By Rail
and Semaphore” stories; excellent work
which New Zealand will one day “redis-
cover.”
Fresh names among the poets and
rhymesters at 214 George-street included
John Shaw Neilson; Jim Ryan (“Nar-
ranghi Boori”); R. J. Cassidy (“Gil-
rooney”); C. J. Dennis ; Louis Esson ;
E. S. Emerson (“Milky White”); Grant
Hervey, the only Australian poet to have
been tarred and feathered ; H. C. Mc-
Kay (“Augustus Blowfly”); Harold
Mercer (“Hamer”), in after years a staff
man; Bernard Ingleby, who once slept
with an elephant; E. N. McCulloch
(“O. C. Cabot”); Walter Snadden and H.
Cripps Clark, two fine writers of sea
verse; and James Lindo Webb (“The
Waif”), who sent charming lyrics all the
way from Majorca. “Bellerive,” of
“Answers to Correspondents” fame,
wrote his first Bulletin piece in 1908.
New women writers included Kath-
leen Dalziel, Mabel Forrest, Dora Wil-
cox, Dorothea Mackellar, Dulcie Deamer,
Zora Cross, Marie E. J. Pitt and Lala
Fisher.
The early years of the century also
brought forth a new crop of story-
writers. Les Robinson is still writing in
a fantastic, nonsensical way, but all the
others have long taken the count. The
best known of them was Joseph Furphy
(“Tom Collins”), whom A. G. Stephens
persuaded to write for the paper. Among
other well-known names were G. B. Lan-
caster, Montague Grover, Louis Stone,
(i Continued pn page 67.)
"THE BULLETIN” STAIRS.
By E. J. Brady.
The Mecca of Bohemian men
Was Archibald’s untidy den.
Firm-footed near the portals there
Uprosie, as now, a spacious stair
That carried nearer to the sky
Their inky hopes in days forebye.
This ladder to Parnassus, they
Expectant climbed-—as still one may.
Oft-times upon its steps appeared
The wiry brush of Daley’s beard,
Or Henry Lawson’s drooped moustache
Would upward glide and downward dash.
Betimes—a gem his pocket in—
Meandered upward Roderic Quinn,
Or Bayldon bore a sonnet new.
Or Broomfield occupied the view
Insistent, in a manner vain,
On making passes with his cane.
These might encounter on the way
The “Banjo” glum, or Hugh McCrae
Or Souter with a leering cat
Or Bedford in a Queensland hat;
And other penmen debonair
Familiar with that famous stair.
The Red Tressed Maiden, all aglow,
And Clancy of the Overflow
And Dad and Dave, in company
With Ginger Mick and Jock Mac Fee,
From time to time, in singles, pairs,
By hand or post went up those stairs I
Awaiting by McMahon’s door
For silver, little, less, or more.
Met jesting genius to abusie
The landlords and the lending Jews.
Anon with cash in hand such drear
Considerations —drowned in beer—•
Would pass as pass the clouds of morn;
And from their ready wits, reborn
As from a fount in Arcady,
Would flow fair dreams of Days-to-Be,
When, in this Southland, shore to shore,
Art was enthroned for evermore.
That noble vision yet I hold
More precious is than all the gold
That men have dug from southern earth.
In loyal hearts it had its birth;
In loyal minds it will become
A trumpet-note, a calling drum
To lead this nation onward, and
To glorify and grace the land.
And though that Fellowship may ne’er,
As then it was, re-climb the Stair
Its voices echo down the years
The voices of the pioneers!


&
70
not out
Congratulations to ‘The Bulletin”—7o,
and well dug in. After all, the popular
old paper is like many of these energetic
veterans we see around. They are seventy
years young and still batting strongly . . . fully
enjoying life, and enjoying financial indepen-
dence. They had the foresight, years ago, to link
up with the old-established and progressive Life
Assurance Company—the Australian Metropolitan Life.
The "Metropolitan” in its fifty-fifth
year has had a history of consistent
progress.
Every year is a bonus year.
Directors:
W. A. H. ALL WORTH
J. A. HENDERSON
COL. ALFRED SPAIN
P. H. PHILLIPS
T. KEITH SMITH
COL. R. S. COWARD
•
General Manager:
E. W. ROBINSON
•
Isst. General Manager and Actuary:
W. J. COOKSEY, F.F.A.
Secretary ;
GEORGE LESLIE, F.C.I.S.
BRANCH OFFICES:
QUEENSLAND: VICTORIA; SOUTH AUSTRALIA;
The Metropolitan Building, The Metropolitan Building, The Metropolitan Building,
367-369 Queen St., Brisbane. 89-91 Queen St., Melbourne. 22 Waymouth St., Adelaide.
J. L. RICHTER, Manager. R. S. JOHNSTON, Manager. A. B. BOLTON, Manager.
m
N
STRALIA
-. M ♦ # "
u
A
I
ASSURANCE COMPANY LTD
HUNTER. AND BUO-H SIRE E T S ~ST 0H E Y.,
Incorporated in Queensland, 1895 .
TO-DAY’S PROTECTION-TO-MORROW’S SECURITY


The Bulletin
Vol. 71 —No. 3651
Wednesday, February 1, 1950
“TIME, GENTLEMEN—PLEASE!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
HORSE-LAUGHS.
Since it is no longer fashionable with
the Communists to disguise the absolute
control by their Central Committee over
the activities of certain key unions, it
was quite in order for Comrade Ross to
announce in Sydney Domain the other
day the policy of the Miners’ Federation
regarding the Menzies Government’s plan
for peace in industry as announced 24
hours earlier by the Minister for Shipping
and Fuel. As “associate editor” of the
miners’ journal, he obliged with the
“dinkum oil”;
I can assure Senator McLeay that the
miners will give this plan one big horse-
laugh Incentive payments, profit-sharing,
amicable discussions and agreements only
mask the naked fist of embryonic Fascism.
He indulged in some further horse-
laughter on his own account at the very
idea of the Menzies Government’s being
able to carry out its mandate to ban Com-
munists from control of the unions by
‘‘destroying the party” Communist
president Dixon (alias Walker), also
present, was less hilarious ; he accepted the
possibility that the Government migh ;
succeed, in which case “the liberties of
all people who oppose this Government
are in danger.”
Meanwhile the miners’ central executive
is reported to be contemplating another
general strike, regardless of Mr. McGirr’s
anxieties about the N.S.W. State elections,
and at its meeting Communist Williams
—president, but without his last year’s
majority on the Mining Unions’ Council —
described payment of bonuses to miners
as “disruptive” and something which “will
be resisted by the whole of the rank-and-
file in accordance with Federation
policy.” The steel industry, for one, can
rust; indeed, steel has for a long time
been a special mark for Communist
sabotage.
There is quite a lot of other horse-
laughter going on in the same quarter.
Communist Healy, of the wharfies, and
Communist Bulmer, of the Building
Workers, are laughing like brumbies.
They are confident that their coming
bashing of the Menzies Government is
going to be great fun.
Their idea is that no Government sup-
ported by the mere electors of Australia
can continue to exist except by Com-
munist tolerance. They are gloating now,
with the most hearty horse-laughs, over
the Chifley Government’s wreck—wrecked
by them, they hold, for daring to oppose
last winter’s coal strike and to draft
the military into the coalfields—and they
are now lecturing the political “Labor”
party in quite patronising terms. For
instance, “Labor’s” official “Standard,”
discussing the prospects for the coming
N.S.W. elections —rather important, these,
for the business of shaking-up the pro-
duction side of the coalmining industry
—thinks that Mr. McGirr “will have to
face a very bitter and intense campaign,”
and that it will “need all the assistance
possible from the trade-union movement.”
Then with heavy sighs it remarks that
that same' “movement” “failed to throw
whole weight into the Federal cam-
paign,” not through lack of conviction
that political dishonesty was the best
policy, but because of “complacency,”
resulting in “shortage of union subscrip-
tions” to campaign funds.
In answer to that comes the horse-
laugh by another editor of another Com-
munist sheet—the “Ironworker,” run for
the education in “Stalinism-Leninism” of
the union which Communist Thornton
bosses. The A.L.P.’s “Standard” actually
broadcasts the horse-laugh against its own
people. “Labor,” this horse thinks, was
responsible for its own defeat;
It failed to provide the people with a
great and sustaining political ideology.
Whether you like it or don’t, there are
today hundreds of thousands of Labor
“voters” who lack the abiding faith in
Labor’s destiny without which any political
system is doomed to frustration and
failure....
It is not sufficient that Labor convince
the workers of the desirability of Socialism
[it didn’t attempt even that]. It must pro-
vide him with a myth. Insofar as Labor
has failed to provide the working-class of
this country with an heroic myth, it must
itself shoulder the burden of its own
defeat
Only by massing forces around a single
and unified platform etc., etc.
No mistaking the meaning there.
“Labor’s” goose is cooked, it says, if il
relies merely upon “voters” with a righl
to express their own views; what it must
have is an ideology, a myth, a single,
unified myth in the Moscow style
aimed at not simply Socialism but the
Socialist dictatorship under a supreme
economic council.
Some high heads, too, will have to be
brought in on a charger, in order to make
Socialist submission and the horse-laugh
alike complete. If anybody in Mr.
Chifley’s glum ranks doubts the truth of
this interpretation, the Communist
“Tribune” simultaneously rubs it in with
an alleged extract from an article by
Lenin some 40 years ago (when he was
one with the rabbits) declaring that “the
Australian Labor party would never in-
troduce Socialism, being not a workers’,
but a capitalist party.” It goes on;
Lenin predicted that a new mass party
would appear on the Australian scene,
which would lead the workers to victory
and Socialism. The prediction was ful-
filled when the Communist party was
established in 1920.
It was in the year after 1920, of course,
that the A.L.P. went Red under Com-
munist influence and adopted the sociali-
sation objective which has plagued it ever
since and brought the Chifley Government
to wreck last December. “Labor” sup-
posed then that it was leading Com-
munism. For one reason or another, the
Communists, to their intense annoyance,
could not get “Labor” into position to
put the acid-test on it. The more they
tried force the more did “Labor” frac-
ture along the lines of the division the
Communists caused. Mr. Chifley’s arrival
in office in 1946 with a majority in both
Houses brought the opportunity, and the
Australian people have had the spectacle
during the past three years of watching
the political blackmail and appeasement
business between the two in full opera-
tion. The showdown came last year on
the coalfields and ended with each
knocking the other out.
Miniature Federal elections are in
prospect this year with every State except
Tasmania going to the polls, and possibly
Tasmania also. The Communists are, in
effect, saying to the A.L.P. —“You can’t
win unless you reconcile yourselves to
the unions that we control, and on our
terms; you can’t oppose Menzies unless
with our help, and to get that you’ve got
to eat all your words about Communist
saboteurs in the unions and stop Menzies
from outlawing us. Then we expect you
to join with us in calling the same sort
of general strike, coal or transport or
both, which you opposed when we tried
it against you last winter.”
Thus, with a horse-laugh, the Stalinist
fifth-column moves to take the lead from
“Labor.” Sydney Trades and Labor
Council appears to see through the game,
and by a two-to-one vote has recognised
the Government’s mandate from the elec-
tions to outlaw the Communists, and has
declared itself on Mr. Menzies’s side. Blit
Mr. Menzies also has a mandate to
abolish “the class-war” in industry and
increase production through employer-
employee co-operation by means of in-
centive payments, by working for actual
partnership in business and in rewards
between employers and employees and by
checking disputes at the point where they
begin. The electors voted emphatically
for the parties sponsoring this pro-
gramme, but that matters not to the
rebels. If the Menzies Government can
be knocked out, the good times of Com-
munist appeasement under the Socialists
may come again. That is the scheme.
And in the expectation that the Trades
Halls will fall for it, the Trojan horse in
the “Labor” camp laughs loud and long.
In 1880.
When the first Bulletin was printed on
January 31, 1880, the population of the
six Australian colonies was just under
2,200,000, approximately equal to that of
present-day Victoria and over a million
less than New South Wales can now
claim. During the big immigration wave
brought about by the gold-rush of the
’fifties Victoria had outpaced the Mother
colony in growth; but by 1880 New
South Wales was catching up again.
It was a period of relative “boom.”
Immigrants were still arriving in a steady
stream and being promptly employed.
The gold-fever had subsided somewhat
and the accent was on land settlement.
Most of the newcomers went into the
country, where the ruling rate of wages
for a married couple—farm- or station-
hand and domestic —was £75 a year with
rations and housing accommodation;
single men £45. An increasing popula-
tion called for greater food production,
and between 1860 and 1880 the area
under cultivation, mostly wheat, had in-
creased fourfold.
Wheat was bringing 4s. a bushel;
flour cost £lO a ton and a four-pound
loaf of bread 4jd. But wool was
already king. The industry had
thrown off the effects of the 1877 drought
and the sheepruns, great and small
mustered 62,000,000 sheep, or 28 times
the human population of the colonies,
ratio which has been exceeded in only
one decennial period since. Wool in
1880 averaged a steady 12|d. a pound
dropping to 9d. in the late ’eighties.
In all the colonies railways were thread-
ing their way out from the capitals. Vic-
toria led with 1200 miles of tracks
Gippsland and the Western District hac
been opened up, and other lines pushec
north towards the Murray, but the link
with the thousand-odd miles of line in
New South Wales was three years off, so
the break-of-gauge headache was not yet
present, though its difficulties were
already being discussed. Adelaide and
Melbourne were without rail connection
until 1887 ; Brisbane and Sydney a year
longer.
Though in 1889 “Banjo” Paterson was
to write, in “Clancy of the Overflow”:
And in spite of lowing cattle I can hear
the fiendish rattle
Of the tramways and the buses making
hurry down the street —
the Sydney on which J. F. Archibald
looked out after putting the first copy of
his infant paper to bed must have been
noiseless place by modern standards, how-
ever much a big city it seemed to its
200,000 population. The present tram-
way system whose racket and din
make conversation on city pavements
a competition in shouting was repre-
sented in embryo by a single track
running from Hunter-street to Hay-street
by way of Elizabeth-street. The trams
were horse-drawn, and had been running
only four months.
Politically, 1880 was a rough halfway-
house between the granting of self-
government and! Federation. Most of the
figures who had been prominent in the
struggle for elected Parliaments had by
then dropped out of active politics, and
the big men of the first Commonwealth
Parliament had still to make their mark.
Henry Parkes, midway through his third
term as Premier of New South Wales
when the first Bulletin appeared, may
be regarded as a link between the two
events. At a colonial conference in Mel-
bourne later in the year he introduced a
motion affirming the desirability of creat-
ing a Federal council, and from then
until his death in 1896 was a tireless
advocate of Federation,
But in 1880 Federation was not a live
issue ; tempers became more heated over
questions of land reform and the
interminable Freetrade v. Protection
wrangles. Parkes’s team included as vice-
president of the Executive Council John
Robertson, sponsor of “selection before
survey” and himself five times Premier;
Francis Bathurst Suttor was Minister
for Justice and Public Instruction;
and v William Charles Windeyer had
just resigned the Attorney-Generalship to
take his seat on the Supreme Court Bench,
Lord Loftus was a recently-arrived
Governor of New South Wales in 1880.
One of his first tasks was to consider a
plea for clemency from Rogan, one of the
“Wantabadgery bushrangers.” Scott,
Rogan and two others had been con-
demned to death for the murder of a
policeman ; the jury had added a recom-
mendation for mercy for all but Scott.
Two of the sentences were commuted,
but the Governor decided that Rogan’s
must stand, and accordingly Scott and
Rogan were hanged at Darlinghurst jail.
The Bulletin attacked the Governor
strongly over his decision on the first page
of its first issue:
Whatever he may have been in times
gone by, it is evident that he is now
altogether destitute of judgment. He grace-
fully chose the sewerage question for his
first public after-dinner speech in Sydney,
and his first important public act has
thoroughly borne out the impression
formed of his character by those who
listened to his maiden oration in New South
Wales.
At the time Scott and Rogan were
hanged the Kellys were “in smoke,” with
£BOOO on their heads, waiting for the
hue-and-cry of the Euroa and Jerilderie
bank hold-ups to die down. The Glen-
rowan climax was to come six months
later.
In Victoria Graham Berry was Premier,
holding also the portfolios of Chief
Secretary and Treasurer. Peter Lalor,
with Eureka becoming a memory and its
transmogrification into a Communist up-
rising still undreamed of, was his Minister
for Trade and Customs. The Bulif
had no high opinion of Ori?
Berry; it thought even l ess f
some of his Ministers, three of whom°
Woods, Longmore and Bryan O’Loehr
—it described as “penniless adventurers"
Knocking at the door of the Victoria
Assembly at that time was young Aif.H
Deakin. He had won the West BoJ?
seat in 1879, but had resigned it when i?
opponents disputed the counting and ha!
lost the subsequent by-election. He h !
another unsuccessful crack at the seat ■
the general election which put Berry o"!
of office, finally winning it at a by-electin„
m July, 1880. Edmund Barton 1]
already in the New South w a b
Assembly, but had scarcely had time to
find his feet as a Parliamentarian
entered the House as member for Sydn™
University in August, 1879, but three
months later university representation wa<
abolished. He then became the member
for Wellington. On the other side O fV
' v ° rld a 16-year-old Welsh lad, William
Morris Hughes, was making up his minri
to go to Australia.
Forward-looking Australians of 1880
were not much concerned with what went
on on the other side of the world, Th cv
had a whole continent to develop and
Europe’s troubles seemed very remote
but “White Australia,” was soon to
become an issue. There had been
no war on a global scale since
the defeat of Napoleon, and there
seemed no likelihood of one. German
naval expansion had not yet begun-
Japan was still merely a land of quaint
and chamung customs; Hitler, Mussolini
and Tojo were still unborn when The
Bulletin was cradled. In London, where
Gladstone was preparing for the cam-
paign which was to sweep Disraeli’s Gov-
ernment from office, Jennie Jerome the
pretty young wife of Lord Randolph
Churchill, was telling American visitors
that her snub-nosed five-year-old son got
his first name from an ancestor who
flourished in the reign of James I, At
Gori, near Fiflis in the Russian Caucasus,
the wife of a village shoemaker was
nursing a month-old babe with close-set
eyes. There was nothing about the infant
to suggest that Archibald’s new-born
paper would ever hear of him ; his upper
lip bore not the slightest trace of a handle-
bar moustache.
New Deal For Wheat.
The N.S.W. wheat crop this season ran
into 80 million bushels, incidentally the
exact figure of the annual quantity Aus-
tralia must make available to consumer
signatories of the International Wheat
Agreement and which they must buy at
prices within the sliding maximum and
minimum fixed by the I.W.A. A catch
in it—for Australia—is that the buyers
can choose any date they like for delivery
within the crop-year, and Australia must
hold the quantity, and pay the costs
thereof, until they want it.
The Commonwealth crop will probably
reach 200 million bushels, leaving about
120 million which can, after home needs
(about 65 million) are satisfied, be sold
outside the I.W.A. Already about 700,000
bushels have been sold to Japan at 20s.
4d. a bushel, 19 million to India at 16s.
Id., and 2-\ million to Spain at 19s. How
much of this is old and how much new
wheat isn’t clear, but it represents a
substantial clearance by the Australian
Wheat Board at prices well above th e
I.W.A. maximum of 16s. Id.
The weeks-old barney with the British
Food Ministry over the 60 million bushels
the A.W.B. offered at 16s. Id. has been
“explained” by pretty well everybody in
the British Food Ministry and several
A.W.B. officials. It now seems plain that
the British Food Ministry was out to do
a bit of trafficking in wheat. Unluckily
for it, there had been an election in Aus-
tralia and the Commonwealth’s wheat
board was freed from Socialist politicians
who overrode it whenever they wanted to
use wheat in a political deal.
There are to be no more deals with
Socialist Governments in New Zealand
(N.Z. had kicked its Socialist Government
out), Britain or anywhere else purely f° r
party-political purposes. It remained fo f
the new Australian Commerce Minister
(McEwen) to emphasise the change:
The Government believes that it is not
entitled arbitrarily to sell primary products.
....We have commodity-realisation boards,
and we are going to allow them to func-
tion. The standard of the policy and
practice of the Wheat Board is to make
the first offer to the United Kingdom f° r
herself and her colonies. This has been
done.
A change indeed, and one which, h°. w /
ever deeply it wounds the British
Socialists’ feelings, should be welcome to
both the A.W.B. and the Air' z 3
growlers. Meantime it shows up the
I.W.A. as not worth the paper it’s writteh
on.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Distorted "Prosperity."
ttaisjs today live in a world of un-
AijstraliaNS t > there is evidence
certainty, even though i ■ * for
of Ph'TS The wool cheque this
many m he more than four times what
year will be J“ eived for a pre -war clip,
wa ? n °® from exports generally is very
and t „ lty » rat es are pay-
wage-earners who work the
, 0 g a routine 40-hour week,
slightest pro portion of the wage-
and only asmit P id as little as the
earn.ng populahon
IhaUnyone who wants to be on a payroll
is full of distor-
S and illusions, and most people, even
|}‘ Zy vaguely, are aware o£ this queer-
ne The progressive loss of value of the
round’s purchasing-power is one of the
St obviously disturbing features of our
present way of living. Money is no longer
what it seems. Many a family saving to
buy a home may, after putting, away £3OO
in a year for that purpose, find that the
cost of building a cottage has increased by
more than that much in the same time.
Life-assurance policies taken out ~0 years
aim and now maturing rarely return their
original money’s-worth because of this
inflation in living costs. The thrifty are
being denied value for their savings, and
the thriftless feel the pinch as well.
The problem of international exchanges
was never worse. It is difficult for almost
every country in the world to trade
freely with the United States. Thus Aus-
tralia, notwithstanding its apparently
great “prosperity,” is almost a pauper
when it comes to a matter of buying
goods that cost dollars. At the same
time the “prosperity” within Australia
creates an extraordinary demand for
dollar goods.
Today many economic, political and in-
dustrial factors are obviously at odds
with each other. There have been social
and political upheavals in most English-
speaking and Continental countries, but
they have brought little, if any, real pros-
perity—often, in fact, the reverse. Social
and political revolutionaries have found
it comparatively easy to create paper
money, excessive output of which excites
demand for goods, but there has been
an obvious failure to create production
to match up with the greater buying-
power.
Soon the world will start crying out for
stability in money and prices. It will get
sick of monetary delusions. But stability
will only come with a greater production
of goods and services by wage-earners
working modern machines; and only
when that greater production is forth-
coming from British countries as a whole
will the dollar-sterling problem be
solved.
The Menzies Lead.
Conservatives’ policy for the British
general elections this month is on all
fours with that of the Liberals for Aus-
tralia, which effectually routed the
Socialist Government here in December.
Indeed, when the question for or against
a socialised State is aroused by the
disastrous decline in a nation’s ability to
earn its living—as witnessed by the in-
flation and civil dissension created by the
Socialist regime both there and here, an
economic sickness made graver in
Britain through exhaustion under her war
effort —there can hardly be any choice
in relief methods to be followed.
Like the Liberal-Country coalition-
leaders in Australia, therefore, the Con-
servative leaders in Britain present a pro-
gramme to
Reduce taxation.
Abolish all controls and rationing as
rapidly as possible.
“Bring nationalisation of industry to a
stop here and now.”
Restore competition under free enterprise
to reduce costs of goods.
“Put the value back into the pound by
lowering prices through increased produc-
tion.
Assure employment and greater produc-
tion, and bring harmony into industry
through profit-sharing and insisting upon
closer relations and better consultation
between employers and employees. The
Government’s weapon against employers
who do not so respond will be in the plac-
ing of Government contracts.
Further details in the building-up of a
sound system of social and health ser-
vices, intensive development of Imperial
consultation and trade connections, the
principle of universal military service and
priority for housing construction with
freedom for builders from red-tape re-
strictions are common to the reform pro-
grammes in each case.
It will be surprising if the British
people do not respond as enthusiastically
as Australian electors did to the oppor-
tunity to get rid of a Government com-
mitted to State control of everything, in-
cluding (as Mr. Menzies put it) “control
of human beings, still the greatest of all
economic factors” a system as
obnoxious to all British people in its
working as it is foreign to every British
tradition.
Australian “Labor” is so interested that
it is sending its campaign-director over
for the duration of the elections to
improve his education.
"Let George Do It."
The best commentary on the disapproval
expressed by the Federal president of the
Australian Primary Producers’ Union of
any revaluation of the Australian pound
is that of the same gentleman, expressed
at the same time, on the need to peg all
wages.
He said “any attempt to bring the Aus-
tralian pound towards parity with sterling
must be treated warily, as it would mean
a heavy loss in farmers’ gross incomes,”
and the effect in reducing farm costs
“would not appear for at least two years,”
but that
Trade-unions must abandon their £lO-
- claim and accept wage-pegs if an
all-out onslaught on spiralling prices is to
be made.
This sort of comment is as devoid of
any practical value as the unions’ slogan
—-“Raise wages ; peg prices.” “Leave me
alone and let the other fellow carry the
baby” is all it conveys. To “put the
value back into the pound” will, as the
policy of the new Government lays down,
require a sharing of the necessary effort
and burden by all classes.
Men of the Tarakan.
The continuing tragedy of the Tarakan
disaster —the initial death-roll had grown
to eight when this was printed —touched
all parts of the Commonwealth, as the
dead and wounded men came from
almost every State. After the first blast,
when rescuers displayed great heroism at
deadly risk to themselves, doctors and
nurses worked round the clock to ease
pain and save life. A call for blood-
donors brought no fewer than 2000
volunteers.
In a grim way this naval disaster —
one of the worst peace-time disasters the
R.A.N. has suffered—serves to show that
for all their alleged faults Australians
are never backward when real courage
and hard work are demanded. In this, as
in mine and railway accidents, on the
beaches, in shipwreck, bushfire, flood and
storm, the blood is true to its traditions,
and the Australian goes to his duty with
the readiness of his fathers.
For an island continent whose chief
cities are on the seaboard, Australians
have strangely avoided the sea. We have
no really great mercantile marine, no big
fishing fleets, no large coastal communi-
ties devoted to the sea. Yet there is a
sea tradition, begun with the founding
of the R.A.N. some 40 years ago, and
the recent tragedy serves to remind the
nation that in the midst of huge harvests
and wool cheques, strikes and cricket and
holidays, and in the face of the troubled
waters to the north of us, men serve
quietly and faithfully—and at risk of
their lives —to keep us free.
The dead and injured of the Tarakan
are no less casualties in the nation’s de-
fence because no enemy inflicted the
blow. •
Baby's Salt.
Adelaide’s story of the discovery by one
of its young doctors only two years
fledged of the cause and treatment of
“pink disease” in babies should be more
than an inspiration to the new genera-
tion of medicos in Australia. It ought
to hit the deficiencies in research in our
universities with the force of a brick, and
arouse fresh demands for real attention
to their proper cultural purposes. A
C.5.1.R.0. for commercial utilitarian ends
is not enough.
The current issue of the “Medical
Journal” tells the story —one of high
romance for young Dr. Donald Cheek
and his friend and teacher, Sir Stanton
Hicks, Professor of Physiology and
Pharmacology at Adelaide University.
Dr. Cheek was so keen on combating
“pink disease” from cases observed while
he was house-surgeon at the Adelaide
Children’s Hospital that, instead of going
into practice at the end of his term, he
concentrated on private research into the
disease. He had a “hunch” that it was
caused by a mineral deficiency, and that
part of the answer could be found in the
suprarenal glands above the kidneys
which the professor had been studying.
He judged from the temporary benefits
given to sufferers by the injection of blood
plasma that the foreign plasma contained
some specific. He enlisted the help of
Mr. Charles Stace of the Waite Agricul-
tural Institute, took him blood samples
from 16 little patients, and a low salt
level was established in all of them.
So salt was the answer: common salt.
The story of the final proof is one for the
pen of a Conan Doyle. At morning tea
one day Dr. Cheek showed Prof. Hicks
a photograph of a facial swelling on a
dead seven-months-old baby. The pro-
fessor had not hitherto been greatly
fired by the young research-student’s
preoccupation. But when Dr. Cheek
said “ and the swelling was so
o Continued on next page)
HITCH-HIKER.
"Mr. Spender, Minister for External Affairs, stating that the centre of gravity in world affairs ha. shifted from the Atlantic to the Pacific, expressed the opinion that
Australia’s destiny ‘is irrevocably conditioned by what takes place in Asia.


i.
-sJI
5728 E-R
Keep
to
CRAVE**
throats sake
for your
Obtainable
in 10’s & 20’s
[CARRERAS LIMITED-OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
mm
; : v.; -:-': : V:'
w>x*
i
hard to the touch that the skin
did not pit,” the professor ex-
citedly cried “My boy, you’ve got it!”
and showed by diagram how low salt
content of the blood would cause water
to be moved from the blood by “electro-
osmotic pressure” into the body cells,
producing swelling of the tissues. “I’ll
bet,” he added, “the blood of all your
patients is abnormally concentrated.
Dash back and check them all.” It was
so. The denser blood, of course, meant
slower circulation, and that in turn pro-
duced the “pinkness,” the burning feeling
in the hands that a child of five had
described, coldness of the palms and
soles.
The two got into action at once.
A 10-months-old baby boy was un-
conscious and dying, so instead of giving
him salt through the mouth it was con-
veyed into a vein in solution by con-
tinuous drip. The child began to revive
at once, and within two days “was brightly
sitting up and drinking six ounces of milk
every four hours.” $ 0
A distracted mother had been for eight
months nursing day and night a crying,
bedridden, inert little girl who hardly ever
spoke, ate or slept. The salt treatment
transformed her miraculously, and in a few
days she was running about like any ,
normal vivacious child.
Besides salt, they have used in severe
cases intramuscular injections of a
synthetic hormone extract prepared in
U.S.A., where researches have claimed
that the suprarenal glands are involved
in the development of rheumatoid
arthritis. But the discovery of “pink
disease” as caused by leakage of salt
(taking water with it) from the blood is
decisive, and the discoverers say that it
babies get enough salt in their milk dur-
ing early months of life the disease should
be wiped out.
South Australia alone has been record-
ing 80 cases a year of “pink disease,
about 10 per cent, of them fatal. It has
attracted attention in many countries for
the past 40 years. It is believed to be an
underlying cause of other childhood ills
—such as so-called summer diarrhoea,
nervousness and rhuscle weakness.
Hitherto the disease has variously been
supposed to be caused by respiratory
virus infection, vitamin deficiency,
mercury poisoning from calomel in teeth-
ing powders, or a disease of the nervous
system.
POLITICAL POINTS
That very strange body the N.S.W.
Trades and Labor Council last week
passed one of its typical facing-both-ways
resolutions. It told Communist union
leaders that they could expect no support
from the council if the Federal Govern-
ment took action to ban them from office
in the unions. At the same time the reso-
lution warned unionists not to be misled
“by the olive-branch tactics now being
pursued by the Menzies Government,”
and said that a conflict between the Gov-
ernment and the Communists would be
“a fight between two anti-Labor forces,
neither of which has any claim for sym-
pathy or support from the Labor move-
ment.” A few months ago “Labor”
leaders were describing Communism as a
foreign conspiracy and maintaining that
“Labor” was the only party capable of
combating it. Now that a Liberal-C.P.
Government proposes to take action
against the Comrades the N.S.W. Trades
and Labor Council professes to regard
the issue as a private squabble.
If these so-called leaders of the
“Labor” movement have any nous at all
they must know that the Reds are not
merely anti-“ Labor”; they are anti-
democratic, anti-Australian, anti-British
and anti all the things—and there are
many—in which “Labor,” Liberal- and
Country-party supporters alike believe.
Even while the Trades Hall blather-
skites were framing their windy resolution
washing their hands of the Communists
they were advising all unions to give sup-
port to the strike of the Communist-led
F.E.D.F.A., which by closing the Shell
refinery at Clyde (N.S.W.) was throwing
1200 men out of work and threatening
country districts with blackouts through
the shortage of diesel oil. The strike fol-
lows the current Communist pattern of
ignoring the Arbitration Court and using
the big stick. The excuse is a claim for
higher rates for weekend work ; the effect
is to aggravate the petrol situation, to
close down factories dependent on indus-
trial solvents and to cause a shortage of
power-kerosene. All this suits the Com-
munist book; apparently it suits the
Trades Hall, too.
In administering the Immigration port-
folio Harold Holt will have what no
member of his party has ever had before
—an Opposition pledged to support
immigration. In pre-war days “Labor’s”
attitude towards immigration was at best
negative; more often it was expressed
in the narrow view that every new arrival
was taking the bread out of the mouth
of an Australian. Eddie Ward and others
of his kind hold this view in its 1950
form—“no more immigrants till all Aus-
tralians are housed”—but Chifley and
Calwell have committed the party too
deeply for there to be any drawing-back.
Calwell did a really good job of getting
New Australians into the country. If
he’d been content to stick to that instead
of chasing others out, and if he had left
Information to someone else, he would
be entitled to be almost as self-satisfied
as he is.
Judging by the conflicting reports
which have been appearing daily for the
last fortnight, by the time this appears
petrol-rationing will either be off or still
on.
South Australia looks like being first
away in this year’s State-election race,
with March 18 as the most likely date for
polling-day. Nominations for the 39
Assembly seats will not be excessively
numerous, as each side is conceding the
other from 10 to a dozen- uncontested
seats, though Independents may upset
this reckoning. Present state of the House
is Lib.-C.P. 23; “Labor” 12; Inde-
pendents four.
Threatening on behalf of “Labor” that
•We will not hesitate to use our Senate
majority and force a Federal election at the
first sign of the new Government attempt-
ing to push hasty or ill-advised legislation
through Parliament,
Broad by, Victorian president of the
A.L.P., claimed that the people of Aus-
tralia had returned “Labor” Senators
with a majority as a safeguard of their
welfare. A similar ridiculous claim was
made by an A.L.P, “spokesman” in the
Adelaide “Advertiser.” “Labor’s” Senate
majority is due entirely to the rigged
system conceived by Chifley and Evatt
whereby seven-tenths of the Senators were
elected by proportional representation
and three - tenths overwhelmingly
“Labor”—under the old system.
When Hanlon got back from London
just after the Federal elections he re-
fused to be daunted by the Chifley de-
bacle and said: “There has never been
any relationship between Queensland
and Federal elections.” Now it seems he
is not so sure. He recently warned an
A.W.U. gathering to take heed of “the
fusion that is taking place among the
enemies of the Labor movement” because
never before had the anti-“ Labor” parties
been so completely united. Iben, for-
getting apparently that there was no con-
nection between Queensland elections
and Federal elections, he added: “Last
year we suffered a major defeat because
of the fusion of our enemies.”
Dr. Evatt, M.H.R., erstwhile “cham-
pion of small nations” and “president
of UN.,” was heard from last Thursday
for about the first time since something
fell on him and his party last December.
He arose to support the incredible James
McGirr, who was supporting the McGirr
candidate for the N.S.W. by-election in
Concord. “Be careful,” said Dr. Evatt,
“of Liberal-party promises,” and went
on to mumble something about petrol.
How have the mighty fallen!
According to McGirr, newspapers em-
ploy men “who sit behind barred doors,
trying to mould public opinion in their
endeavor to scare the people,” Every
newspaperman who read it was disturbed
for a moment; he though it was “behind
bar doors.”
A year ago the Concord (N.S.W.) by-
election was fought more on Federal
issues than on State, and Liberal Brice
Mutton got home by 17 votes after gain-
ing a majority of postal votes and a fair
slab of the Lang candidate’s preferences.
On February 11 there will be no Lang
candidate, and McGirr has virtually
abolished the postal vote. These factors,
combined with the knowledge that
“Labor” had a majority of about 1100 in
the Concord subdivisions at the Federal
election last December, encourage McGirr
and Co. to believe they can easily regain
the seat next week. One thing is certain ;
if they can’t win back Concord they
haven’t the slightest hope of winning a
general election.
A man with a Scottish burr in his
voice dropped into The Bulletin office
last week to remark that the Germans
were Saar agitated.
P.M.G. Anthony’s inquiries into one
of the causes of friction in his depart-
ment —that of “unofficial’* postmasters in
country stores who have not been paid
enough to keep their little telephone cx-
changes open at night—have disclosed to
public view that “unofficial” post-offices
in Australia “outnumber official ones by
seven to one.” There are 8700 “un-
official” post-offices, and to find them the
additional subsidies of about £274 each
per annum will cost the P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment £487,200 a year.
Farewell words of Sam Lewis, Com-
munist president of the N.S.W. Teachers’
Federation, at the close of the Federa-
tion’s annual conference: “Well, we’ve
a big year in front of us. It looks as
though Australia is in for a Fascist
regime now.” The reference, of course,
was to the constitutionally and freely-
elected Federal Government. His
Teachers’ Federation claims to be non-
political.
Various spokesmen for farmers’ organi-
sations, fearing revaluation of the £A
to be inevitable, are roaring blue murder
on behalf of the poor farmer who would
get less for his export products under
revaluation. But surely the farmer has
the sense to see that costs can’t come
down while export prices are inflated —
which is what they are at present.
The McGirr “Labor” Government has
been told by the Menzies Government
that it won’t get a special annual grant
from the Federal petrol-tax fund to en-
able it to lift the Sydney Harbor Bridge
toll. It could hardly have expected it,
since pretty well every “Labor” body in
the McGirr State from the East Woolloo-
mooloo branch to the Trades and Labor
Council has vociferously declared that it
won’t co-operate with the Menzies Gov-
ernment.
An American company has evolved a
process for making newsprint from waste
sugarcane, and last Friday a newspaper
printed on the new product was on sale
at Holyoke (in Massachusetts). The in-
ventors do not claim that the process is
a cheap one, but believe that countries
with a surplus of sugarcane and a short-
age of dollars may find it worth taking
up. It seems a matter on which the
C.S.R. and the C.5.1.R.0. might well put
their heads together.
A tragic anniversary passed last week
almost unnoticed —that of the fall of
Rabaul, in 1942. Among those who did
remember were the Brunswick Salvation
Army band, who held a little ceremony
at Melbourne’s Shrine of Remembrance.
The band replaces one which was virtu-
ally wiped out at Rabaul. Its members
joined the 2/22 Battalion in 1940 and be-
came the regimental band. They went
with the battalion to Rabaul; only one
returned.
Apart from temporary silences through
power breakdowns it is rare for a radio-
station to go off the air, but one Sydney
station was dumb on two days last week,
the reason a strike. And it wasn’t owned
by the capitalist Press, either. It was
2KY, the voice of the Trades Hall.
Resignation of Mr. Justice Starke from
the High Court brought this comment
from the “Standard,” official organ of the
A.L.P. in Sydney;
Labor has no luck in the High Court.
If the retirement had come a bit earlier
Labor would have had the privilege of
filling this position.
And if “Labor” had won the election it
would no doubt have had the “privilege”
of stacking the High Court to ensure a
change of luck.
Queensland’s new coalfields, the future
of which seemed so healthy last year, are
suffering a relapse. In Melbourne dis-
charge of a cargo of Callide coal is held
up by complaints that it is too dusty,
and in Mackay (Q.) the electricity
authorities have pronounced it too dear
and unsuitable for their power-station
grates. In Brisbane Hanlon and Hiley are
arguing over who was to blame for the
Power and Traction Finance Company
dropping the Blair Athol project. y
In Melbourne the Clerks’ Union is
threatening “action” unless the Harbor
Trust or the shipowners clean up the
wharf-sheds. The sheds aren’t the only
things on the waterfront that need clean-
ing up.
There’s hope for industrial peace yet
Last week teams representing Adelaide
Trades Hall and the S.A. Chamber of
Manufactures played a cricket-match f or
the “Ashes of Industrial Discord”
Umpires were Liberal Premier Tom Play,
ford and Labor Senator Fred Ward. *
It’s to be hoped the Liberal-C.P
Ministers don’t become as garrulous as
their predecessors. The people got awfully
tired of Ministerial announcements about
what the particular Minister was going to
do, and equally tired of waiting for it
to be done. Far too much cackle and
not enough action has been the rule at
Canberra for far too long.
Queensland is to start an intensive
campaign against rabbits alleged to be
seeking to cross her southern border. No
doubt special measures will be taken
against those bearing Liberal or Country,
party markings.


SINCE 1847
DF
D
FD
GOOD FOR MORE
THAN A CENTURY
PERSONAL ITEMS
News-photographers don’t miss much,
an d when Bob Buchanan, of Melbourne
“Herald,” watching and waiting while a
migrant plane from Rome unloaded at
gssendon, saw a pair of male hands thrust
through a small customs-shed ventilator
and a grey-headed lady outside joyously
reach up, grab and kiss them, a flick
of his finger recorded that minute’s
emotion. Now the picture, titled “Mother
Love,” has been picked as one of the
world’s best by Missouri (U.S.) Uni-
versity and the Britannica. Submitted
by the D. of I. for this world-wide com-
petition, Buchanan’s picture will be
printed in the Book of the Year and
distributed throughout the world.
In 70 years some remarkable characters
have figured on this page ; Rene Henri
(presented here by Heth) can take his
SKINS AND HAIR.
place among them for divergence
of occupations—Sydney ladies’-hair-
dresser-cwn-crocodile-shooter. Founder
of the Crocodile Shooters’ Club,
every year Henri leaves his curlers
and driers, packs a .303 and a
Paillard Bolex movie-camera and heads
north for the Gulf country. This migra-
tion is not recommended for all hair-
dressers—Henri backs his hobby with
20 years’ experience of skin-buying and
shooting, gained since he left Leipzig,
then the fur-market of the world, to buy
possum-, rabbit- and kangaroo-skins in
Melbourne. Seeing no reason why he
should fork out for the results of other
men’s shooting, he left for the bush to
shoot his own—experience of Aus-
tralia’s outback that has given him a
greater pride in his adopted land than
most of the locals he meets seem
to have. His craze for crocs was
born when he met his first saurian
inland of Cooktown. Next year he was
back; this time trekking further in
with a seasoned professional, one Juneo,
<m Italian who had been shooting there
for five years. Not even jungly swamps
and mudbanked rivers could overcome
native European politeness, and the shades
of old bushmen must have gyrated to
hear two mud-spattered, sweating hunters
stumbling through the lawyer-vines
punctiliously addressing each other as Mr,
Henri and Mr, Juneo. Though agreeing
that croc.-killing is hard yakka, or words
to that effect, Henri hopes to organise
each year an expedition of young city
southerners who, while learning from
Professional hunters, could benefit both
nese and their own experience.
tv.Attention, golfers! As from March 1,
a yal and Ancj ent Golf Club of
• Andrews, the golf Parliament for
entunes, will require you to conform to
is new book of rules, now copyrighted,
n?uv F t! nted * n Australia by the Club’s sole
P Wisher here, Charles Arthur Shepherd,
anaging-director of the well-known
printing-firm. In 30 years in the
P ntmg game Shepherd can hardly re-
member a book he expects to sell so well
—that rosy picture being colored by a
background of club secretaries feverishly
altering score-cards and the non-
informed golfer losing bets (and strokes)
galore to his book-brandishing partner.
In addition to this epochal publication.
Shepherd has produced, and excellently
so, books of the art of Gruner and
Norman Lindsay, Douglas Stewart’s
Ned Kelly and Shipwreck, Malcolm
Ellis’s Francis Greenway and a best-
selling handbook of French cookery.
Golf —that’s right; he wields a fair stick
himself.
Some Personal brevities from The
Bulletin’s opening broadside, January
31, 1880:
Bishop Barker is ruralising.
On the scales Hanley Bennett turns 13
stone. Other clowns turn somersaults.
James M‘Kean has the longest body and
one of the shortest minds in Melbourne.
Sir John Robertson drinks P.B. Before
he does so he bathes his eyelashses with
the liquid. The clearness of his honest
blue eyes tells the result of 20 years’
practice.
Judge Windeyer is studying the law.
John Lucas’s buggy has a U spring on
one side, and on the other, where he sits,
a W.
Some men are born to guzzle. Now Ben
James lives in Sydney.
As modest as a leaf in a landscape,
Archibald Prize-winner Arthur Murch,
the right-hand sitter in this pair of Prior’s,
\isited The Bulletin carrying another of
his lyrical, bronze-gold bathing nudes
which he was on the way to post to Mel-
bourne, for the exhibition of Sydney
painters which the Macquarie Galleries
is sending this month. Hailing
from Sydney’s near-north coast, where
he is bricklaying his own cottage,
in an area which already houses a fair-
sized artist colony (among them Lance
Solomon, John Eldershaw, Frank
McNamara and Clem Seale), Murch
learned to think in precise linear symbols
from the discipline of an orthodox
drawing-office, Dobell, too, was an
architectural draughtsman. Murch is
unusual in that he divides his non-painting
time between modelling
and sculpture—for some
years he has been teach-
ing modelling students to
draw at Sydney Tech. His
stubby, nervous fingers
and alertly flicking eyes
are pointers to the sus-
tained energy which drove
“WYNNE” AND “ARCHIBALD” WINNERS.
him to submit eight or nine portraits for
the Archibald before finally landing the
jackpot.
Paramount Pictures has a good man
for its Hollywood-lovelies skinscapes in
landscape artist George Lawrence, who
went pn from winning the £lOO Crouch
Prize at Ballarat last year to the Wynne
Prize last month. A Julian Ashton pupil,
he has been in commercial art for 30
years, with his Wynne winner the fifth
submission for that competition. His
landscapes hang in all Australian
National Galleries, except Adelaide, and
in private collections in England and
America. About the same short build as
Murch, he carries with it the same lively
energy.
“Conda”: Hood’s valedictory in that
Bismarck article (B. 11/1/’5O) recalls
some famous names connected with one
of the world’s largest warships. When
Hood visited Australia, leading the
Atlantic Squadron in 1924, Rear-Admiral
Grace, who commanded the R.A.N. during
part of its recent Pacific war job, was
captain of one of her escorting cruisers.
Her captain was Im Thurn, among the
world’s great naval wireless men, in
whose cabin, at Devonport (Tas.), on
March 31, 1924, were heard the first
words broadcast from America to Aus-
tralia. One of her officers was Lane-
Poole, who put many a youngster now
afloat through his early paces while
C.O. of Jervis Bay College. Another,
Goolden, hastened back from the 1924
cruise to take over H.M.A. cruiser
Melbourne. At Matapan two members
of her 1924 wardroom added their names
to the scroll of history—Rear-Admiral
Denis Boyd, later C.-in-C. Aircraft
Carriers, and Captain Sir Philip Bowyer-
Smyth, R.N., Sydney-born, who took
Perth through all her Mediterranean
fighting and the Crete evacuation, and
swallowed the anchor three years ago.
Harold Darling, passed on in Mel-
bourne, was called the Man of Steel,
which was a bit of a misnomer, as he was
a kindly, friendly, self-effacing man who
did much good work in private. But he
thought steel, lived steel and dreamed
steel, and most of his reading was about
it; it was this preoccupation which helped
to turn B.H.P. into the greatest industrial
enterprise in Australia, create Whyalla
in South Australia, and a host of other
activities, like the acquisition of Port
Kembla, the founding of the Common-
wealth Aircraft Corporation (of which he
was made chairman) and the bringing of
1.C.1., the Orient Shipping Co., and other
Broken Hill mining-companies into the
B.H.P. orbit. This strong combination
did more to put Australia’s
late-war defence on a
sound footing than any
other factor. Before steel
he thought wheat, for he
was the son of John Dar-
ling, M.H.A., and entered
the family’s old grain busi-
ness in Adelaide in 1903,
stepping into the management in 1914
on the death of his father, in the same
year being elected to the board of B.H.P.
In 1923, when B.H.P. was swinging into
steel production, he began his reign of
27 years as chairman, during which the
concern became a Goliath of industry.
His yearly statements at board meetings
were like inventories of national develop-
ment, and the last, like the first, was a
blueprint of expansion. He was 65.
Although a comparatively recent addi-
tion to J. C. Williamson’s —g.-m. Harald
Bowden, for instance, has been about the
place some 37 years—Eric E, Wahlquist,
business and publicity manager, has been
in the show game for 29 years, 23 of them
in films, and his well-groomed figure
topped off with a smiling keen-eyed phiz
has been as well-known in Melbourne,
Adelaide and Brisbane as it now is around
Sydney Royal, Previously g.-m. for
FLESH AND BLOOD.
Hoyts in Queensland and S.A., Wahlquist
joined the Firm six years ago, arriving
in the middle of legit, theatre’s remark-
able recovery; he sees the same show
three or four limes a week, never tires of
it, and holds to the simple truth that the
public will fill flesh-and-blood theatres so
long as it is given good shows —of which
he has ample proof from such successful
J.C.W. importations as Cicely Court-
neidge, “Born Yesterday,” Morley’s
“Edward My Son,” Todd Duncan, the
Italian Opera concern, the Kiwis, “Annie
Get Your Gun” and the current “Okla-
homa ! ” ; proof which should be substan-
tiated from the list for the future —a Gil-
sullivan season, the musical “Song of
Norway,” “Harvey” and “Streetcar
Named Desire.”
Anyone who knew him would have bet
long odds against young R. A. Black-
burn, Rhodes Scholar son of the .South
Australian V.C., ending up in a road-
workers’ gang; but even they mightn’t
have expected him to land where he has
—at 31, Adelaide University’s new Pro-
fessor of Law, and with five and a half
years of his study interrupted by A.I.F.
service. Now a barrister in England,
serving a pupilage in Common Law
Chambers, he graduated with first-class
honors in English language and literature
from Adelaide University in 1939, won the
next year’s Rhodes Scholarship and after
the war entered Oxford, Here, further
honors, in the school of jurisprudence,
his Bachelorship of Civil Law, and, last
year, election to an Eldon Law Scholar-
ship, a rare distinction for an overseas
student. He replaces Professor Arthur
Campbell, who was 60 when his death
made the Chair vacant.
Into the Silence:
At Oamaru (M.L.), Janie Park, widow of
Professor Park, one-time Otago University
Professor of Geology, whose portrait adorns the
gallery of distinguished living Scotchmen in
Edinburgh. She was the professor’s second
wife; Sir Keith Park, the airman who did a
good job of defending London during the blitz
and later at Malta, is her stepson.
At 70, in Melbourne, Dr. Leslie Latham,
brother of Chief Justice Latham. President of
the Royal Australasian College of Physicians
and president, councillor or chairman of nearly
a score of other bodies, ranging from the
Victorian B.M.A. arid Board of Stewart Lec-
turers to the Wallaby Club, he was a World
War I major at the 14th A.G.H. in Egypt.
At Macedon (Vic.), at 68, Major Lawrence
Brooks, a Kiplingesque character who fought
in the South African and Russo-Japanese wars,
the rebellion of Natal natives, the Chinese civil
war of 1911-12, and the Kaiser’s war. Shifting
from Army to Colonial Administration, he
continued his adventures along the Gold Coast
of Nigeria.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Jessie M. Chavasse,
president of the Theatre Lovers’ Club since its
foundation and a fosterer of stage talent. The
group of players who visited hospitals and
entertained spastic children and other patients
during the late war was her creation.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Clooter”: According to an Adelaide
paper the chap in charge of the South
Australian tour of the current Miss Aus-
tralia announced that the purpose of the
trip was to make her “familiar with each
capital so that when she went abroad as
an ambassadress she would know what
she was talking about.” I’ve no doubt
that the 19-year-old lass is quite charm-
ing and has her fair share of the power
of observation, but I’m darned if I can
see how anybody could gain any know-
ledge of Australian capitals, or anything
else, on the kind of organised jaunt to
which she is being subjected. Met by
mayors and other dignitaries, rushed
hither and yon, the star-turn at recep-
tions and luncheons, expected to make
complimentary speeches and so forth,
how the deuce would she know what she
was “talking about” if somebody over-
seas asked “What chance would there be
for opening a pickled-eel factory in
Collingwood?” The plain truth of the
whole thing is that it is a newspaper and
advertising stunt which more or less
benefits deserving charities and (to some
extent) the contestants. The winner, of
course, is on a good thing. What with
advertisement royalties, free trips, valu-
able gifts and achieving the youthful
female’s ambition to be the “glamor star”
of the moment, what teenager could wish
for more? But as she is rushed about,
crawling brokenly to bed each night and
roused out next morning, the
“lucky” girl must sometimes
think: “I earn it. Heavens,
how X earn it!”
* * *
“Saratoga”; My first in-
troduction to The Bulletin
was in 1890, when, a lad of
15, I was down from the
bush on a Christmas holiday
and staying with my father
at Tom Brown’s Royal
Hotel at Randwick. The old
man gave me a great time.
He brought me a silver watch
for fifteen shillings at
Lassetter’s and sparred up
five bob for a magic lantern.
We went to “Cinderella” at
the Theatre Royal and
“Dick Whittington” at Her
Majesty’s. I was shouted a
ride on the Switchback Railway at the
Bondi Aquarium, saw the Battle of Gettys-
burg at the old Cyclorama, and, of course,
went to the Zoo and Manly. But the
most enduring delight of the trip was
my first sight of The Bulletin. The old
man tossed a copy on my bed at the
Royal Hotel and advised me to read it
instead of Deadwood Dicks. I have been
a constant reader ever since, but have
still to recapture the same pleasure that
1890 Christmas Number gave me.
Recently I looked up a copy in the
N.S.W. Public Library, and the joy it
gave me as a lad came back with a rush.
There were stories by Henry Siebel,
“Price Waning,” Vincent Pyke, Manning-
ton Caffyn and others. “Banjo”
Paterson’s “On Kiley’s Run” and “Story
of Conroy’s Gap” were there, and so
‘No, sir; he's entirely self-taught.”
were Edmund Fisher’s poem about the
billiard-marker and his “The Barmaid and
Her Boy.” The same issue offered
drawings by Phil May, “Hop,” Frank
Mahony, Percy Spence, George Ashton
and Egersdorfer. Quite a feast for a lad
who fed himself on Deadwood Dicks—
as good as the slap-up Christmas dinner
the old man and I had at Quong Tart’s
in King-street.
* * ♦ *
“Bosun’s Mate”: “Macnell,” in his
Bismarck yarn, made one important
omission, which, however, the Encyclo-
pedia Britannica, now printed by the
University of Chicago, rectifies. In its
account, in the middle of a veritable fleet
of R.A.Fs., R.Ns., H.M.Ss, and other
peculiarly British appellations, the tome
introduces the gently-reproving reminder
that “an American-built naval patrol-
plane sighted Bismarck on May 26.” So
justice is done.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: The greatest barrier be-
tween man and self-consciousness is a
small piece of wrapping-paper. No
civilised man could bring himself to walk
along a city street with, say, an un-
wrapped rake, hoe or spade in his hand.
No shop-assistant could wrap up any one
of the articles to make it look like any-
“ Mummy! Are jelly-crystals DIFFERENT
from bath-crystals?”
thing else ; yet, with two square feet of
brown paper covering less than a tenth
of purchase the buyer will sail out of
the shop in perfect nonchalance. Even
woman, who seems to enjoy drawing
attention to herself in other ways, appears
to suffer from a mild form of self-
consciousness at the thought of carrying
an unwrapped parcel. Recently I saw a
damsel buying a golf-club. “Will I wrap
it up?” asked the obviously new assist-
ant. “I should hope so.” The lady’s
reply was quite scathing. “You don’t
think I’d carry it along the street other-
wise, do you?” She left the shop con-
tented —with a square foot of cellophane
screwed around the head of the club.
There can be only one answer: the paper
is the symbol that tells the world we’ve
just bought it—we’re not just carting the
blooming thing around for company;
nor is it to be considered part of our
dress or, as the phrase is, our “acces-
sories.”
♦ * * *
“Nakhoda” reminisces:
Passing Cocos atoll on its routine track
recently the Strathaird sighted two small
boats packed with people, and, thinking them
in distress, officers signalled them alongside,
where one got bashed in and the other lost its
staysail. The crews of both were salvaged,
and in due course 12 Malays and six white
men, including John Clunies-Ross, the 21-year-
old “King” of Cocos, were landed at Fremanti
barefoot and in borrowed shirts, to be return h
to their island paradise by the next passer hv
The Strathaird officers must be new to the
For at least 30 years men from the caw„
station on Pulau Tikus, in the Cocos erZ
sallied out to meet the mailboats and pick
the barrels of fresh food and newspapers
ships threw into the water. It was a welcom
break in the monotony of tinned food 3
exile and of ocean travel for the passenem
They were nearly in distress on one occasion
when the Emden, flying the British flag aiu j
camouflaged with dummy funnels, called there
The Chinese cook, down on the reef getting
shellfish, was the first to spot her. He joyfully
reported the apparition, but the superintendent
took a squint at her and the staff got busy
Before the German landing-party had reached
the shore the Sydney was on the way, havin ’
been advised of a strange warship by G. H, K
La Nauze, the Adelaide man in charge of the
Cocos wireless. Emergency plant had already
been buried, plans concealed and dummy cables
laid out seawards a few miles. The chief
engineer stripped and took a bath to avoid
being asked awkward questions. The landing-
party blew up all visible equipment, but wasted
so much time sawing through the dummy cables
that it only had leisure to cut one live one
before the Sydney arrived and the Emden was
fleeing to its end. The landing-party took half
the station-stores and departed on Ross’s
schooner, the Ayesha. Twenty-four hours later
communication between England and Australia
was restored by joining the two ends of the cut
cable across an anchored ship’s boat. Von
Mugge’s men on the Ayesha eventually landed
in Arabia and reached Berlin.
* * * ♦
“Spike”: A good quarter of a mile
away from the open-air
concert “shell” built in the
park by our local council I
find that the work of pianists
travels best, and seems to
pick up a strangely fine
tone as it wafts about the
air, eerie, and probably
startling to strangers. On the
other hand, brass - bands
playing classical music,
abominable at any time, pro-
duce in every dog in the
neighborhood a desire to
sing. Perhaps the most
diverting entertainment occurs
on evenings when the “shell”
is empty of musicians, and
spooning couples murmur in
its shadows. Inaudible at
close range, every word they
breathe can be picKed up 30 yards
away.
* * * *
“Skean Dhu”; The difficulties of this
English language. During a cold snap
Josef, the New Australian, put it on the
boss for time off to go in to town. “But
why?” protested the boss. “Can’t you
wait till the weekend?” Josef shook his
head emphatically and held up one foot,
showing a boot with a very large hole
in one toe. “Nein. Nein,” he insisted.
“I must a new pair of boots buy. The
fingers of my foot are very cold.”
* * * *
“Bill Ding” ; For a score of years or
so I have heard evidence pile up in Arbi-
tration Courts, Federal and State, from
union advocates and their witnesses, of
the destructive nature of their jobs on
their wearing apparel, with demands for
greatly-increased allowances either by the
statistician or the Government. Now that
the age of nudity seems to be at hand
and lots of workers, both inside and
outside of factories, have discarded most
of their clothes, contenting themselves
with shorts —very short at that, even
to aV in one reported case — I wonder
what sort of reception a move by em-
ployers in the courts would get for a
reduction of the clothing allowance.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; “Allwet” (B. 18/1/’ 50 |
couldn’t have been listening when f*
debate started. The quotation was “Th er „
is little change in the building trade,
not “There is no, etc.” I quite agr
that there are no “lathers” now; st ’
they had a good innings before they we
bowled out. Lath-and-plaster ceiling s '
and walls—were in use centuries a jC
And lathers must have been employe
thousand years before that—-alth° u 6.,
they were probably known as “wattlers*
since the laths were called wattles a
were long, very thin saplings. Wat
and-daub was the parent of lath- an
plaster, and a very old form of Eng ll .
building construction. By
day the technique had advanced, and ‘
mod. bung, was built of solid oak P
beams and braces, with wattles a
puddled'clay making the walls betwe
The Australian acacia owes its niew* .
to this wattle-and-daub method of bm ,
ing. Early settlers found that i
wattles could be cut from the 10 ’
flexible saplings that sprouted from
running roots of the acacia. Blaekwa
Bay, an inlet in Sydney Harbor, w aS .
named because an abundance of
building material grew there. But
return to the argument: perhaps KJP :
was wrong. There has been a chaos
lathers are gone—and all in a space
thousand years or so.
A “BULLETIN” SCRAP-BOOK.
As a dead poet’s ballad once writ for a
chap-book
Has power to work magic in memory
still,
So now, on each page of my '‘Bulletin”
scrap-book,
Old strains half-forgotten awaken and
thrill.
In a youth that is lost to me, these were
its theme-songs.
When, weaving their thoughts in a
verbal festoon.
The wreath-makers fashioned the chords
of their dream-songs.
And cried “Are you marching? Then
here is a tunel”
Ay, that was a living, but this is a ghost-
age.
For Kodak is shuttered, and Den’s in
the clay.
Though Lawson’s confirmed, with his head
labelled “Postage,”
As our first Man of Letters their cost
to defray.
Here “songless bright birds” are again
singing gaily;
Full-powered, strong-pinioned, they soar
from the nest;
Hark forward to Forrest, "Nil” Souter,
and Daley,
Frank Morton, Frank Henty, McCrae
and the restl
Despite a smirched record, one feels
’twould be scurvy
To bar a good wordsmith—one can’t
pick and choose—
So here spurt the sparks from the forge
of Grant Hervey,
Who quitted the anvil to fall for “Two
Shoes.”
Will Lawson’s tramp-steamers from main-
truck to keelson
Grow rust in the doldrums or trudge
round The Horn,
And the secret of tears is unlocked by
Shaw Neilson—
In his land of enchantment I also was
bornl
The leaves are flushed crimson with
treasured “Red Pages”
Ere Stephens departed to pluck aspho-
del:
There are rhymesters unique in their way
through the ages—
Bellerive, for example, and Jimmy Pur-
telL
If rhythm-springing highbrows think
ballads are bathos
Let them hark to the heartbeat of
“Danton” O’Dowd;
Or read Connie Clyde, with her Moth and
its pathos—
Or Hal Gye’s lone sally— an imp in the
crowd I
Benign Monty Grover has faced the Great
Deemster;
Reality’s crowned “A Sub-editor’s
Dream”;
And Mousquetaire’s met with his “stern-
striding teamster,”
While Bedford has Eden for gardening-
theme.
Now Priam (or Lam) with immortals is
rhyming;
Ted Dyson’s providing a Lambert
tableau,
And Robertson marks an angelic choir’s
timing
As Memory’s hanging her "tremulous
bow.”
Neath Heaven’s perpendicles, Virgo and
Leo,
Reclaimed and unreprobate, “first by
the Throne,”
Are seen, strolling happily, Lindsay’s grim
“Trio”
The girl with the rosebud, the tart and
the crone.
* * * *
The Southern Cross rises: Orion’s declin-
ing:
Though we as astronomers oft are
depressed,
We may march to a bourne where the
large stars are shining
That were lit by Rod Quinn o’er his
Camp in the West.,
ENGLAND.
GUY INNES.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
S 3
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
jp l ® ’’Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
°‘ Waterloo, and has em-
er gcd from them all with
greater strength and pres*
hge.
p IRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
.atlas buildings,
* SPUING STREET, SYDNEY.
J- Manager, N.S.W.
"• V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
,jQr__AustraHa and New Zealand.
72 COLOURS •72 COLQU RS• 72 COLOURS
•72eOLOUftS
A/o orz/e# pg/vc/t
2*
COLOURS
His
• uu
F
(t
'
r
it
0
N| O other colour
pencil equals the
‘Derwent” for the
superfine quality of both
lead and wood, the purity and
brilliance of the primary colours
and the delicacy of the pastel tints.
In all 72 accurately repeated colours,
no refinement has been spared to obtain
the highest degree of light fastness and
general permanence. The colours mix and blend
well in both wet and dry applications; effects
similar to water colour and tempera may be obtained by
applying solvents such as Dekalin. Unquestionably, the
"Derwent” will measure up to your most exacting demands.
If unobtainable from your stationer, kindly contact your nearest agent.
Supplied in neat attrac-
tive stand cases in the
complete range of 72,
or in 36, 24, and 12
assorted colours. Also
boxes of 12 separate
colours.
BiiMUii
( PENCIL COMPANY LIMITED)
Representatives In Australia
Vic., S. Aust. and Tas.: HUBERT JOHNSON PTY. LTD., 324-330 Flinders
MELBOURNE. C.l. N.S.W, and Queensland: WYNYARD TRADING CO,
Kembla Bldg., Margaret St., SYDNEY. W. Aust.: CHAS. A. DONALD,
Economic Chambers, Willi? m St., PERTH.
ADVERT OF BRITISH PENS LTD.. BIRMINGHAM. ENGLAND.
1
\
GOOD OLD
JOHNMIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
VJOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH I
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK. /
SCOTLAND; LONDON AND SYDNEY, ji
JW.1278.1t
“Spare Corp”: Occasions when seconds
seem to drag out to years are known to
rnost of US ; one of my worst experiences
was when two starshells burst above me
in No Man’s Land when I was out on
the King’s business —putting pipes of ex-
plosive under the enemy’s wire-entangle-
ments Fogged in the darkness after
doing my job, I had risen full height to
get a bearing on the shell-holes; and the
lights broke so suddenly that to dive for
cover would have revealed movement
that would have stirred immediate enemy
attention. 1 stood stock-still, hoping to
be taken for a battered tree-trunk, post
or other part of the regular scenery. This
was the time, I reflected grimly, to test
the official theory that stock-stillness was
the best policy; if it wasn’t it was just
too bad for me. The enemy wire was
just in front of me, like a frosted cob-
web, and I could hear the voices of
Huns, evidently arguing whether the bit
of scenery I represented had been there
before. A rifle snapped and a bullet
buzzed wasplike near my ear; but what
sounded like an angry order followed
it and no more rifles spoke ; it was a burst
of machine-gun fire I feared. The star-
shells seemed to loom in the air for about
two years; there was a clammy sweat
upon me, I felt a tingling in my nostrils
as if I might sneeze at any time. Then
the lights, after being hung aloft by some
ungodly agency, began to come down,
still taking months about it, while my
hair turned grey. But the one that fell
right beside me landed finally with a
whizz that made me think a stick-bomb
had been thrown. As it gave its final
flicker within a yard of me it seemed
that I must be recognised ; but I still
managed to keep my pose as a battered
tree-trunk. Then the friendly darkness
rushed in and the way I dived into a
shell-hole and made tracks for my home
trench would have shamed the fastest hare
that ever beat coursing dogs.
« * * *
“Wurrawilberoo”: Book values (B.
18/l/’50)? Though I have to do a bit
of thinking before I can recite the Greek
alphabet, I can still remember some of
the dicta of my headmaster, who occa-
sionally took it upon himself to take
my class in the dead version of that
language. “Books,” he would declaim,
“have no value apart from the words
they contain. As long as they are in a
readable condition all copies have equal
value.” Demonstrating this point he’d
rip the back off Jhis copy of Homer, scatter
leaves on the floor and stamp on them,
gather them up and continue the lesson.
While I still consider that his claim is
open to argument I’ve found that there’s
a lot of sense in another point he used
to make —that a really first-class brain is
not an asset to a barrister or a politician.
His reasoning: the super intellect will
always grasp the cons as well as the pros
of any matter with which he deals, and
As fatal for either of the gents named
to realise that there might be viewpoints
other than his own.
* « * $
“Harold Hardupp”: One of the less-
known sports of Sydney is “betting on
the drunks” in Belmore Bank. The park
is almost surrounded by pubs, and the
drunk who has lingered so long that he
can hardly stand up against the bar
naturally gravitates towards some green
spot where he can lie on the grass to sleep
it off. Because the civic desire is to
keep the little beauty-spot a decent
breathing-space for sober citizens, police-
patrols, and occasionally the “trawler”
call at intervals to remove the drunks.
The game is to have bets on how
long any drunk will lie there before
being nabbed; it became such a regular
business a while ago that a bloke with
s.p. instincts made a book about it. There
was a surprise in the pre-Christmas week.
The grass was spread with drunks as a
battlefield with corpses, and, betting having
been lively, there was a stir of interest
when a police motor-cycle and side-car
buzzed up. But it was the bookie who
was nabbed; a police-pimp sent there to
keep an eye open for undesirables had
been offered a bet by the odds-man, A
trawler collected the drunks later.
* * * *
“Pat”: Medical fashions change as un-
predictably and as drastically as women’s
hats. Recently our younger kiddie went
down with measles, “Ah, yes,” said the
quack. “So-and-so-and-so-and-so and
bring her down seven days after the rash
appears.” Regretfully we cancelled that
week’s engagements, but announced that
we’d be pleased to “give it a go” on any
one of the following seven days. “Good
heavens,” said ma-in-law, “You couldn’t
come then. Measles is three weeks’
quarantine at least.” The old man said
“I never heard of such a thing. It’s six
weeks before it’s safe to come in contact
with you.” In the kitchen is a little book
listing infant ailments. “Measles, four
weeks’ quarantine,” it said. Desperate
for a decision I rang the quack. “1
thought you said seven days,” I stam-
mered. “Seven weeks, you meant, eh?”
And I quoted my long list of authorities.
“Good Lord,” boomed he. “That’s 1900.
Seven days I said, and seven days I
meant.”
* * * *
“Melbn”: The newspaper reported
(B. 18/1/’5O) as tucked under the arm
of Francis Ormond in front of Melbourne
Tech, is still there as I write. The
authorities charged with the care of the
city’s public statuary apparently don’t
care, or perhaps they think it is part of
the scroll which the man who gave
£300,000 to education holds in his left
hand. Or, perhaps, they take as little
interest in the statuary that adorns the
streets and places as the average citizen.
I don’t blame them. Like all other cities
except Paris, Melbourne has the sort of
public statuary that wouldn’t interest a
glowworm. The only interesting thing
about Adam Lindsay Gordon’s statue in
Spring-street is the poet’s verses engraved
on the pedestal.
* * * *
“Sackville St.”: The first night I dis-
tributed snail-destroyer around my garden
the results were highly satisfactory-
daylight found dead snails grouped
around every little heap. Before night-
fall I did the rounds with more of the
marvellous stuff, and retired rubbing my
hands together. Not one dead snail
delighted my eyes in the morning—but all
the bait was gone! The same thing
happened the next night—and the next.
I saw the man who supplied it. He
couldn’t help me; no one else had a
similar experience, I bought a fresh
supply. The results were the same; bait
gone, no victims. In disgust I flung the
packet up the paddock. A second after
it landed my big, amiable idiot of a
dog was wolfing the mixture down, his
immense rudder waving his delight.
Kill him? No; he didn’t even get
decently sick. But a thought occurred
to me. I laid the bait again—and kept
Muggins on the chain. Thus was an
honest, effective product restored to its
rightful place in my estimation.
* * * *
“Niloc”: A publishing review printed
in Vienna gives some interesting figures
on Russian reading of foreign authors.
Since 1917 Jack London’s sales have
reached 11,000,000, running into 590
editions in 29 languages. Dickens, his
most popular novel there being David
Copperfield, H. G. Wells, Mark Twain
and Upton Sinclair have each sold in the
30 years roughly 3,000,000 copies. Favor-
ing “Hamlet” and “Othello,” the Rus-
sians have taken 1,750,000 of Shakspeare.
The remarkable point about the list is
that G. B. Shaw, who claims to have a
very warm regard for the Soviet, has
received scant encouragement, his sales
being a mere 183,000, while Galsworthy,
a bourgeois fellow if there ever was one,
has reached 1,300,000.
* * * ♦
“Bo”: The small sports roadster parked
in Sydney’s Castlereagh-street had
attracted quite a number of spectators.
The flashest thing in chrome and pillar-
box-red duco, it was the number and
variety of gadgets on it which attracted
the curious. From the front bumper-
bar sprouted a veritable forest of club-
badges. A thin semicircle of twisted
chromed steel, also on the bumper-bar,
came almost up to the gleaming nude-
dancer mascot on the bonnet-nose. The
car carried a big amber spotlight and twin
chromed horns almost half as long as
the bonnet itself. A well-dressed young
man standing on the kerb turned to a
portly elderly gent standing near him,
“Well, if that isn’t the essence of vulgar
ostentation!” he remarked. The old boy
let his gaze wander back to the resplen-
dent apparition. “Oh, I don’t know,” he
replied. “A man could get plenty of
‘pirates’ with that!”
* * * *
“Jobber”: There are two tram-con-
ductors in Sydney whom my missus has
cause to remember. Before they put the
fare up to a trey she offered one chap
four ha’pennies; the troubador tore off
a ticket, took the coiris and with a majestic
wave of his arm hurled them into the
gutter ; pure flashness, and his cash would
be at least tuppence shy that evening.
Last week, when offered a bob for a
threepenny fare, the conductor just shook
his head; my wife murmured “I’m sorry
•I have nothing smaller,” to which he
gallantly replied “That’s quite all right,
madam —neither have I,” and wandered
away. She could scarcely be expected to
put a bob in the honesty-box, so that is
threepence more on to the tramway
deficit.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver had done
nothing but yawn and look sleepy ever
since get-up time. “You’ve got to get
those heifers together this morning,” I
reminded, as he finished breakfast.
“Yair.” He stretched wearily, and pulled
himself upright. “Gripes, what’s the
matter with you?” I complained.
“Didn’t you get any sleep last night?”
“Not a bit, Sol,” he mourned. “Dreamt
the flamin’ hut was on fire. Must ’a’
been leavin’ that log in done it. An’ I
had t’ stay awake all night t’ watch the
thing.” “But you could have gone to
sleep again, couldn’t you?” “Well, I’d
like t’ see you go t’ sleep,” he defended,
“when y’r hut was alight. Gripes, the*
flames might easy ’a’ got into the horse-
feed, or spoilt the dingo-traps, an’ burnt
the tucker,” “Not if you only dreamt
it it couldn’t.” “Yair, but don’t be mad,
Sol,” he snorted. “How the blazes does
a bloke know it’s only a dream when
he’s asleep! Gripes, I had t’ watch it
just in case, didn’t I? An’ I tell y’ I
never woke up it was only a dream till
the jackasses went off, an’ then blast it
if it wasn’t too late t’ go t’ sleep again! ”
* * * *
“Bo”: Moodie,
licensee of the little
galvanised-iron pub at
Sparrowhawk, was also
the hamlet’s baker,
postmaster, watch-
maker, blacksmith,
undertaker, storekeeper,
butcher, vet., news-
agent, public-hall pro-
prie t o r, insurance-,
machinery and stock-
agent, mailman and
barber. In case these
activities left him too
much spare-time he was
chairman of the near-
by butter factory,
secretary of the local
Agricultural Society,
chairman of the foot-
ball club, etc. He was
particularly proud of
his manifold duties,
and he seemed to re-
gard any assistance as
an insult to his capa-
bilities. It was never-
theless bruited about
the little community
that he occasionally got
things mixed; Whelan
swore he had once
come upon Moodie
frantically belting a loaf of bread
into shape on the anvil after having
put a set of shoes in his oven; it seems
also that he had, during one heavy surge
of work, given a drench to an alarm-
clock, and was about to make a coffin
for it when someone came into the bar
and brought him to himself. Staying there
overnight, I decided to get a haircut, I
rang the little bell in the barber’s “shop,”
which was just a chair in the corner of
the pub-cwm-store, when Moodie, wear-
ing an apron, came in from his butcher’s
shop holding a gory meat-chopper and
looking worried. I settled for a shampoo.
* * * ♦
“Old-timer”: Old Boggy will curse me
for this. He was camped in a hut the
other side of Benanee, and we dropped
him a bundle of papers. Somebody
noticed that he studied those papers care-
fully, and was clipping items out here
and there and putting them away. We
were curious, but Boggy wouldn’t tell us
what it was about, and though we
examined those papers afterwards it was
no good, because he’d cut out headlines
and all and nobody could remember what
the items were. One day he put up a
swag and disappeared. He was back
about a month later, wearing on his
whiskered and aged countenance a satis-
fied look. The mystery was two months
old when Jim Spry sent us a city Sunday
paper. It carried pictures of Boggy and
a long, wild yam about his age, what he
remembered, and his opinions about
modern youths and flappers. “Them
paper blokes,” said Boggy, “got me t’ pose
f’r them pictures an’ the writin’ blokes
writ all that stuff theirsclves. But they
kept me in beer an’ tucker while it was
on, an’ then I made over t’ Melbourne an’
got another issue there. It’s a good way
for a old bloke t’ have a buckshee holi-
day. Y’ see, they can’t get many real ol’
bushmen these days who remember the
gold rushes an’ the mail-coaches an’ all
that.” Boggy will curse me, as I said, for
I have to state that only the last one of
his 64 years was spent in that hut —the
other 63 had been spent in the inner
suburban street where he was born,
* * * *
“J.J.H.”: Thanks, “Taswegian,” for the
list of abo. place-names in the Speck
(B. 11/1/ ’5O), but in comparison with the
mainland States the proportion of abo. to
European names is still low. Two from
the list quoted have an Old-World flavor.
“Beulah,” for instance, is an old-
established Hebrew nafne, while “Cup-
rona” sounds like a copper-mining town.
Most of the names on the list have an
original tang that marks them as pure
Tasmanian, but there are a few which
may also be found on the mainland;
Gwandalan, for instance, and Karoola,
Myalla, Corinna, Taranna, Malbina, and
Moonah. Does any ethnologist on the
council know whether the mainland
borrowed these names from Van
Diemen’s Land or vice-versa, or whether
they are common to abo, dialects .on
both sides of Bass Strait?
* * * *
“Billy T,”; Landed back in the old
valley in time to be caught for spud-
digging. A bloke ought to have more
sense—2o years since I swung a fork
among the murphies; but it’s wonderful
the way it all comes back. Ricking the
stalk as you come back to it to see where
to jab, the side-scrape to get the stragglers.
“ History , sport or general knowledge?"
the hunch of the knee under the handle,
that awful pain up the side of the neck
from keeping the head hung one way, the
switching from right- to left-handed
digging to ease it (afraid I’ve lost that
trick), the head hung low when picking
up, the striving for nimbleness to out-
weigh the handicap of small hands, the
quiet jockeying at the end of a run to
avoid the next one if a furrow runs down
it or to grab it if it has a crown —the
old game is much the same. Diggers are
much the same, too; a few old-timers,
but mostly husky lads who stiffen the
local football teams in winter; they still
talk spuds and bets and beer though they
now know a bit about deserts and jungles,
too, though don’t bother mentioning it.
Spuds behave much the same, though
their names are new. Transport has
changed—once anyone was proud of a
horse that would take 15 bags in a dray
out of a soft paddock, but now anybody’s
truck takes a hundred. Anyway, I’ve dug
a few bags and used a bottle of liniment,
but will still have the laugh on flash colts
half my age who can’t keep their knees
straight and place their palms on the
ground in front of their boots.
* * * *
“C.A.”: The owner-mechanic at the
garage was flat out. Heavy-eyed from
lack of sleep, he no sooner fixed one
breakdown than another call would come
for his services. “Our own car isn’t
pulling too well,” reported his wife one
morning. “You’d better see what’s the
matter.” “Can’t do it today,” he replied
briefly. “Got to get out to the smash
on the highway.” A few days later she
again mentioned the car. “It stuck
me up for over half-an-hour in town to-
day,” was her complaint. “Really, Ben,
you’ll just have to fix it.” “Yes, yes,
all right, but there’s been that broken
truck out on” He was interrupted
by the ’phone-bell. “Car-load of
tourists,” he reported presently. “Held
up on the Stoney Creek road with
engine trouble. I’ll have to go.” It was
about a week later, and he had just
returned from a job, when the ’phone
again summoned urgently, and a
distorted female voice requested him
immediately to a car three miles out, by
the red bend. Soon his truck was
swinging round the bend to pull up
beside the stationary car. A familiar
figure emerged. “Yes, me ,” his missus
answered his stare determinedly. “I told
you it wouldn’t pull your hat off. I’ve
got to go in shopping tomofrow, and I’m
waiting here till it’s fixed! ”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “I’m makin’ into
Wagga once,” Mat said, “and just out
o’ Uranquinty I pick up with a cheerful
sort o’ bloke who’s full o’ talk, an’ we
cobber up. All I got f’r tucker is a bit
o’ sugar an’ he’s got nothin’ at all, but
we ain’t worryin’, because Wagga ain’t
a bad place for a handout. Well, just
as we hit Wagga I go an’ turn me flamin’
ankle on a gutter an’ can hardly walk.
This bloke helps me down under the
bridge an’ makes me lie down. He gets
me boot orf, an’ he’s gentle as a lamb,
an’ soaks a towel in the river and wraps
it round me foot. ‘You wait there,
mate,’ he says, ‘an’ I’ll go up the town
an’ get a bit o’ tucker.’ Off he goes, an’ I
lie back an’ look at the river. The pain
eases off an’ me belly starts t’ ache, ’cos
I ain’t et anythin’ since the night before.
I reckon I’m goin’ t’ be gettin’ outside
some steak or chops shortly, ’cos the
bloke was a battler, all right. So I lay
there about a hour, savorin’ a big hunk
of imaginary meat, an’ then he comes
back. He’s wearin’ a big grin an’ I can
see I’m jonick. He opens up his parcel
an’ I look at what he’s got. Yair, me
ankle was sore, all right, but it wasn’t
too sore f’r me t’ get up an’ go him. He
was one o’ them ruddy vegt tabarians or
whatever y’ call ’em, an’ all he had was
a bunch o’ turnip-tops an half a cab-
bage!”
“Zake”; I rise to decry, as the silifc,
analogy of the shortest route between
two given points, the old saying “as a
crow flies.” Kelly is a scavenger by birth
and predilection, and the man who hasn’
seen the sable maggot-fancier forget his
original appointment to make a detour
in his gastronomic interest must be
rarity. A demented cabbage-moth with
a busted wing i§ a model of straight flvina
compared with Irish.
* * * *
“Blime”: Hearing the sea over a great
sand-ridge, I parked the bus. After
a lot of skidding on foot I made
the top of the ridge, and from
there spotted another vehicle a bit
further down. Its owner I discovered
perched on a rocky bluff, holding a
fishing-rod. “Ideal spot for fishing,” j
opened conversationally, surveying ’ the
long, isolated coastline. “Was,” he
scowled. “Oh, I won’t disturb you,” l
put in hastily. “Just like yourself prob-
ably, I was driving past and heard the
water. Deep, isn’t it?” He didn’t con-
tribute. “Deep right round these rocks,
by the look of things,” I added. “Bet
there’s some big fish in here,” He pulled
in his line, looked at a miserable worm
dangling on the end, and made a vicious
cast further out. “Using pretty light
tackle, aren’t you?” I suggested. “Why.
in the Loddon they use a lot heavier
than that.” He stared at the rod with
fisherman’s patience. “Of course ! don t
know much about fishing, myself,” I con-
ceded, “but, if you ask me, I’d say that s
trout tackle you’ve got. Don’t you sec.
it isn’t strong enough for deep water.
As I said, there’ll be big fish —they
break that line, and” “And don’t you
see,” he interrupted, with a sigh tna
turned the waves in the other direction,
“I’m only fishing for the little ’uns?’
* * * *
“Wippegong”; lam sitting beside the
Macallister River (Vic.), and althoug
within sight of ranges which carry
eucalypt forests that have no counterpart
overseas, beside me the native and tW
introduced are completely mingled. R e
gums and ribbon-gums line the stream,
but with them are hawthorn and honey-
suckle ; patches of bracken smother th
grass, only to be overrun in turn by blae -
berries. Here, and in the adjoining scru .
red-browed finches fossick and call, whi
their migrant relatives, the goldfinch
outdo them in dress and song.
overhead the English skylark strives
outwarble the avian world, but near hi
a native kestrel is content to demonstr 2
that perfect hovering is just as worw
a performance. Around this bend,
hand the prize for song to an introduce
performer—the cackle of the watt
birds, the chattering of the honeyeate
and the raucous squawk of the hero
could not be compared with the meup
notes of the blackbird ; but an Austral 1
lifts the trophy for the best-dressed hi _
Low down by the water, his
tummy a rich note even in the shade „ s ’
the azure kingfisher takes your breath ’
flashing out across the current,
gorgeous blue of his back and
catches the sun. There was a time wn
the Macallister had native vegetation 0 -
by its banks. It was beautiful then,
it is beautiful now —and probably T _ so
because of the variety and contrasts;
here’s hoping that the many newcoru
whose strange accents are now heard
the surrounding district will be as eas ;
assimilated and as vigorous when
begin to absorb all that is good f r °
this wholesome soil and sunshine.
4
THE PICNIC RACES.
O, to be young and nine-stone-seven
And riding in Picnic Races!
That was as near as we got to Heaven
Long since in the old bush places.
Up on your favorite grass-fed hack
For the pride of some western station,
Or maybe to carry the Bracelet back
For your best girl’s admiration.
Beat of the heart as you ranged in line
With a bunch of the best grass-feeders;
Singing a song to yourself “It’s mine.
If I get away with the leaders!”
Thrill of the “Off!” and the dropping flag,
And Goodbye springing to action,
Stealing a length from die nearest nag
To your perfect satisfaction.
If he holds his lead to the half-mile bend
It is all you are now desiring.
For you know he’ll stay to the bitter end
When the rest of the Held are tiring.
They are streaming down to the winning-
post
At a pace that tests their breeding;
A grey comes up like a gliding ghost
But Goodbye is still there, leading!
* * * *
And so farewell to the Picnic Races,
The thud of the hoofs, and the cloudless
sky.
And the dainty frocks and the smiling faces
And all that is lost in that word "Good-
bye!”
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


top
tfc e ' I
m orn»og •_
IP*
S
£V*
-3
/
11
► <r «
i
OVERCOATS
BY
TOP DOG
D
THE BRAND WITH A PEDIGREE
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Dream Girl."
Sydney Minerva’s current
offering is Elmer Rice’s “Dream
Girl," a comedy about a young
woman who plunges into elabor-
ate day-dreams as a refuge from
the troubles that confront her.
Her main problems are (1) her
sister’s worthless husband with
whom she thinks she has been
in love for a couple of years,
(2) a wealthy married man-
about-town who wants to take
her for a holiday to Mexico, no
holds barred, and (3) a bluntly-
spoken young newspaperman
who is anxious to advance him-
self from literary criticisms to
sports-writing.
There is nothing particularly
novel or arresting about the
situation or its working-out,
and the mild, light comedy con-
tent of the opus, which should
be gently wafted across from the
stage, is rather spoiled by most
of the players trying to drill it
into the collective skulls of the
audience with the insistence and
clatter of a roadworker attack-
ing concrete with a pneumatic-
drill.
The play is presented on slid-
ing sets which glide on and off
the stage with remarkable ease,
silence and frequency as the
young lady passes from reality
into her dream world and back
again. The dream sequences deal
with rather adolescent imagin-
ings and should be familiar to,
and readily understood by,
readers of the more advanced
comic-strips which deal in such
things. Those members of the
cast who figure in the dreams,
particularly June Clyde, as the
young lady herself, play them
wdh too much heavy melo-
drama, with the curious result
that these passages often seem
more substantial than those
parts of the play which purport
to represent reality.
a fairly large cast, Hal
tnompson, as the man-about-
°wn, handles his part of the
proceedings most naturally. Ex-
ePt m the beginning of the
p, COnt * act, when he and Miss
yde lift the business to fairly
r| gnt comedy, Stewart Long, as
e newspaperman, is only as
al and as entertaining as the
p oUn g woman’s dreams. Diana
st r^ an turns in a brisk, tidy
etch of acting as the dreamy
husines^ artner a bookshop
"Heartbreak House."
Hollinworth’s Metro-
tv,. ns oould have made a
“u_, flection from Shaw than
himJif , House” Shaw
a nce a }iegedly pleaded ignor-
es ot hs meaning, and time
Granr 0t Unified the issue.
* Play its occasional
occa?! la . lo B Ue and its equally
S nal shar P political and
the a COmment > it still has
sermon ° f . a va B ue rambling
charar? m which the
sit am! er j~~ or ’ rather, symbols—
and n Una and talk interminably
poundinl always brightly, ex-
ev ervtti the author’s ideas on
monel *? 8 , from marriage and
Its J tO . burglars and bombs.
anderf n °i ldary comedy—of phil-
and n, B wives and husbands
marital 611 " . casua l acceptance of
pervaaL is also
lecturin a fusty note of
people 8 ‘ toward handles such
tertain- aad situations more en-
offersth only because he
me Ssa g em » sans moral and sans
report aS a r i c bl y humorous
mann e ° n human nature and
Sheri/ s ’, not > i ll fact, unlike
The "School for Scandal.”
politans couldn’t
bring Shaw’s symbols to life,
and the fault was not altogether
theirs.
Boiled-shirt Opera.
The second half of the Sydney
Town Hall concert with the
Symphony Orchestra under
Joseph Post was given over to
excerpts from “Faust,” Gounod’s
extraordinarily-sustained melodic
inspiration in the Garden Scene
providing the bulk of them.
It was perhaps unfortunate
for the tenor, Ante Soljanic, that
that most luscious of tenor
arias “All Hail Thou Dwelling”
should fall so early in Act 111,
and before he had gained full
confidence. He sang it quite well
—up till the climactic high note,
when he propped in his vocal
tracks, then cautiously climbed
to an emasculated note that
sounded suspiciously like
falsetto. That anticlimax ruined
the whole effect. He made
amends in the “Eternelle” which
followed, his partner in the duet,
Strella Wilson, soaring to the
high spots with rich tone in that
as in her own two arias. Ronal
Jackson injected into his power-
ful and resonant bass-baritone
the true sardonic quality in the
Mephisto cavatina “While You
Play at Sleeping.” Florence
Taylor was the Martha of the
piece.
Elsewhere the orchestra re-
sponded to Joseph Post’s virile,
neat and alert conducting with
some crisp playing in the Over-
ture to Humperdinck’s “Hansel
and Gretel,” the Venusberg
music from “Tannhauser,” three
lilting dances from “Aida,” the
Prelude to Act 111 of “Madame
Butterfly” sand a captivating
rendition of the “Dance of the
Seven Veils” from Richard
Strauss’s “Salome.”
* * * *
Queensland-bom p i an i s te,
Enith Clarke, was an appropri-
ate choice as soloist for the first
1950 appearance of the Queens-
land Symphony Orchestra. Her
performance of the Liszt Second
Concerto revealed new reserves
of power and vitality in her
playing. Only a more responsive
instrument would have enabled
her to give a more dazzling per-
formance. Still under the spell
of a Queensland summer, the
orchestra was not at its brightest
in a programme heavy with
Tschaikovsky, a mediocre over-
ture by Sinigaglia and Dvorak’s
discursive “Golden Spinning
Wheel.” However, John Farns-
worth Hall’s captivating interpre-
tation of the “Mother Goose
Suite,” preserving all the good
humor and subtlety of Ravel’s
score, proved to be just the re-
viver conductor, players and
audience required.
Two Opera Films.
Two Sydney film-houses are
running grand opera: “La
Traviata” at the Variety and
“The Barber of Seville” at the
Savoy.
The Verdi work, made by
Columbia, is a typical Holly-
wood confection. An opera
transcribed into film, it is not
compartmented into acts, but is
rather a string of arias, concerted
numbers and choruses, the
necessary continuity of the
Dumas story being supplied by
narrative spoken by the ill-
starred heroine. It is not easy
to believe, however, that a lyric
soprano would speak in a husky
voice that inevitably conjures up
visions of its owner swinging a
71b. hammer or shaving with a
cut-throat razor; certainly it
doesn’t sort with the daintiness
and beauty of Nelly Corradi,
who brings to the role of
Violetta a limpid voice which
ranges with facility over the
best part of three octaves, and
who acts spiritedly as the gay
courtesan and with impressive
pathos in the closing sequences.
Gino Mattera, the Alfredo of
the piece, lifts a light tenor with
grace if of no great distinction.
“The Barber of Seville,” on
the other hand, is the opera it-
self screened in its entirety. A
magnificent Italian Testi film, it
has been staged with fine
artistry. The acting, even down
to that of the supernumerary
roles, could stand on its own
without a note of music; and it
serves to emphasise the excel-
lence of the Sterbini libretto of
the Beaumarchais comedy—a
libretto which Rossini, master
of the gay and the virile in
music, obviously relished. The
principals (Nelly Corradi is
again the soprano), chorus and
orchestra are from the Royal
Opera House, Rome, under
Morelli’s baton.
Tagliavini, as the Count, uses
a lyric tenor, somewhat under-
weight, with artistic integrity;
but it is in the men’s lower
voices that the films strength
lies. Tito Gobbi, a baritone
with an enormous range, incred-
ible vigor and splendid reson-
ance, almost rattles the walls
With his intense rendering of
the Largo al Factotum —a per-
formance which could scarcely
be bettered by any baritone liv-
ing. The company also has two
bassos of first-rate quality:
Vito de Taranto, whose Don
Bartolo is a sheer joy, and who
makes a particular gem of the
famous shaving scene, and Italo
Tajo, who, as the music-master,
turns a masterpiece of sly
humor in the slander aria. The
direction by Mario Costa is well
up to the high standard we have
come to expect from Italian-
made films.
Artbursts.
A remarkable achievement
was the opening gambit of the
season at Tye’s Gallery, Mel-
bourne. Messrs. R. Dalla Riva
and G. Clementon, Italian
artists, covered the walls with
pictures, Mr. Clifford Mollison,
comedian, provided the explana-
tion and Baronne Kuva, com-
poser and impresario, represented
the sister-art of music with a
performance of Rhumba
Serenade, his own composition,
with Albert Argenti, celebrated
tenor, Bobbie Limb’s Orchestra
and Giro’s Continental En-
semble, led by guitarist Nino
Alda. Frank Morelli, television
star and accordionist, Joe Cur-
cio, violinist, and Joseph
Marchesani, pianist, also made
their contribution. In this med-
ley of worship of the Muses the
critic had to anchor his atten-
tion somewhere, and he found
some quiet satisfaction in Mr.
Dalla Riva’s No. 21, “Still Life
Study,” and No. 12, “Self-
portrait. I’' 1 ’' They showed some skill
and observation. Mr. Clemen-
ton’s crucifixions and madonnas
belong to a familiar category of
religious pictures. They could
hardly be called art any more
than his staggering portraits of
Bette Davis, Norma Shearer,
Deanna Durbin, Madeleine
Carroll, Vivien Leigh and other
stars of the stage and screen.
The artist modestly labels these
“commercial,” and states they
were copied from photographs.
Nobody would have supposed
they weren’t.
* * * *
Dermont J, Hellier’s show of
oils and watercolors at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum bespeaks an
enormous lot of hard work but
not sufficient observation. The
formula applied suggests a
mixture of Power, Streeton and
Harold Herbert, and there is no
reason in the world why an
artist shouldn’t explore the tech-
niques of other artists. Ulti-
mately, however, he has to see
his own world in terms of his
own experience, and that can’t
be done without divesting one-
self of one’s preconceived ideas
about it. Mr. Hellier does this
best in his “Harvest Time,” with
its flood of tawny yellow. “The
Village Road,” a small study,
lifts the show out of the com-
monplace with its delicacy of
observation.


In
EXPERIENCE
In the administration of
Pastoral & Farm Properties
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee Company, has a
Syide association with the administration of rural properties. It provides:—
• Efficient management.
• Safeguards the interests of dependants.
• Provides ample security for performance of trusts.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
) BOARD OF DIRECTORS;
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Eennon
Raws, C. 8.8.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young;
W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
401 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
and 1 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £966,706.
Incorporated In Victoria in 1878.
NEW SOUTH WAXES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman)}
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., 1L.8., K.C.; Sir Lennon
Raws, C.B.E. N.S.W. Manager; C. B. R. Cowdery»
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Taubmans, Ltd.
Taubmans and Subsidiaries.*
: f— 1 Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 5 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£, £/ £/£>£>
1941.. 74,196 1500 13 p.c. = 51,852 20,844 255,876
1942.. 71,031 5000 10 „ „ 39,887 26,144 282,020
1943.. 62,726 5000 10 „ „ 39,996 17,940 299,860
1944.. 68,056 5000 llj „ „ 44,872 18,184 318,044
1945.. 70,878 5000 ll| „ „ 44,872 21,006 339,050
1940.. 94,733 6000 13f „ „ 54,844 34,889 373,939
Net share-premiums, £13,847 ..387,786
1947. .163,742 5000 15 p.c. = 64,999 89,027 476,813
Share-premiums, £111,776 .. ..588,589
Goodwill increased, £B6B .. .. 587,721
Reduction reserves, £B7 .. .. 587,634
1948. .207,231 5000 = 96,390 105,841 693,475
Net addition reserves, £3056 •• 696,531
1949. .171,617 5000 =100,554 66,003 762,594
* After eliminating outside interests.
The contraction of £35,614 in the latest
profit figure of this big paint-manufactur-
ing organisation—parent and five sub-
sidiaries —has not damped the enthusiasm
of the sharemarket for the co.’s scrip, the
price of which advanced from 935., cum
2s. 3d. final div., in November, 1949, to
955. 6d. last week. At the higher figure
the immediate return is only 3.6 p.c. on a
17£ p.c. div. basis. So the investor who
looks for a shade over 4 p.c. on his
money counts on a 20 p.c. distribution, or
other benefits, such as a new share-issue,
which is a possibility when the new fac-
tories now going up at Adelaide, Bris-
bane and Wellington (N.Z.) are com-
pleted. Last issue was 121,933 £1 ords.
at a premium of 255. each fin Dec., 1947,
when 40,642 £1 bonus shares were also
handed out.
The board reports continued expansion
of business, and statistics for the trade
as a whole support the claim. Chief
troubles last term were the steep rise in
costs and the mischievous coal strike.
The costs problem has its roots in re-
current wage-lifts, which bump up operat-
ing and all other costs, including trans-
port and materials, such as linseed-oil,
pigments and resins. And since many of
the co.’s products are subject to price-
control, all the extra cost cannot be
passed on. The coal strike brought loss
of production and revenue, and aggra-
vated costs. There was also a lot of
money represented by uncompleted fac-
tories which were not earning anything.
However, the group profit of £171,617,
written after making unspecified allow-
ances for depreciation, taxation, etc., was
enough to pay the pref, div, and show
29 p.c. on average ord. capital as against
36.7, 36.6, 22.5, 16.5 and 15.8 p.c. back
to 1944. On shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined) the year’s profit
was 11.9 p.c., which reflects able manage-
ment and efficient and conservatively
valued plant and equipment.
The year’s net addition to freeholds
and plant was £152,005, largely on
account of the new factories already
referred to, stocks increased by £111,251,
and debtors’ balances by £64,579:
Taubmans, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
„ , 1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £498,867 £506,417 £668,989 £674,591
Outside
interests ~ 52,988 93,927 105,063 154,368
Creditors* .. 108,065 166,525 467,829 695,071
Freeholds ~ 205,270 279,053 301,474 394 371
Plant .. 133,326 216,088 272,675 331,783
Stocks . , 496,085 710,694 1,061,340 1,172,591
Debtors, etc... 186,625 279,766 401,269 465,848
Cash, etc. .. 183,865 14,343 3,886 41,458
* Includes provision for taxation.
The co. went outside for an extra £227,242
to meet the outlay. The contraction in
the more-or-less liquid surplus (£920,184)
was only £13,840, despite the addition to
fixed assets. The suggestion there is that
the allowance for depreciation, etc., was
not skimped.
The association with the big English
paint organisation of Pinchin, Johnson
and Associates, which bought a con-
trolling interest in the co. in 1930, has
meant, and continues to mean, much on
both the technical and commercial sides,
while an efficient costing system and re-
search department are very helpful so
far as overhead and competition are con-
cerned. New lines are being added to
the already long list of manufactures,
and the chemical division at Villawood
(N.S.W.), which is turning out insecticides
and special solvents, is making good
progress. Demand for nearly all the co.’s
products remains strong, and when the
new factories come into production turn-
over should get a lift. Net results will
depend largely upon industrial conditions
and what happens in connection with
costs. Later on competition is likely to
play a more important part than it does
today.
Cox Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.
f- 1 Dividends \
A Pref. B Pref. Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. , Ord. serves.*
1940.. 61,084 11,723 8,611 12J p.c.= 30,813 65,301
1941.. 59,913 11,723 8,611 10 „ „ 28,286 76,594
1942.. 53,206 11,724 8.610M10 „ „ 28,287 81,177
1943.. 44,887 11,724 8,610 71 „ „ 21,216 84,514
1944.. 45,365 11,724 8,610 71 „ „ 21,215 88,330
1945.. 42,046 11,724 8,610 71 „ „ 21,216 88,826
1946.. 51,452 11,724 8,610 71 „ „ 21,215 98,729
1947.. 53,664 11,724 8,610 71 „ ~21,591110,468
Share premiums, £42,052 .. .. 152,520
1948.. 60,457 11,724 8,610 71 p.C.= 24,781 167,862
1949 . . 55,519 11,724 8,610 71 „ „ 27,034 176,013
* After deducting goodwill (£42,070) from co.’s
published reserves.
Turnover increased by over a quarter of
a million pounds last term, yet there was
a contraction of £4938 in net earnings.
The £55,519 of profit covered pref. re-
quirements (£20,334) and 9.7 p.c. on
average ord. capital, compared with 12.1,
11.5, 11, 7.6 and 8.8 p.c. back to 1944.
The p.c. div. was repeated for the
seventh year in succession, and for the
seven years before that the average was
13.2 p.c. Reserves benefited by £Bl5l,
lifting them £176,013 in excess of good-
will (£42,070).
From Melbourne headquarters the co.
runs a chain of 39 shops, scattered
throughout all States, except Queensland,
and trades mainly in clothing, furniture
and manchester goods, partly on a t.p.
basis v As with other retailers, chief
troubles last term were the official slash
(up to 15 p.c. on some lines) in gross
margins in Jan., 1949, and steep rise in
wage and all other costs. The Govern-
ment, which sought to control profits as
well as prices, argued that, following with-
drawal of subsidies, there would be a
marked increase in the money-value of
turnover and gross earnings. The counter-
claim of the retailers was based on sales
resistance to higher prices by the public
and rising costs. Inflationary pressures
delayed sales resistance, but costs de-
pressed net earnings. When turnovers get
into reverse gear. State price-fixing
authorities, if they continue to function,
will also need to reverse their present
policy, if serious trouble is to be avoided.
Expansion has been the keynote of the
co.’s activities since war ended. Over
the four years to the close of last accounts
net additions to the book-value of free-
holds amounted to £280,354, to plant
£55,033, to stocks £345,277, and to
debtors’ balances £194,237. Shareholders
put up £77,374 of fresh capital, which
brought with it £42,052 of share pre-
miums, mortgages were increased by
£377,500, and the amount coming to
sundry creditors by £53,729, while
£116,943 was raised on overdraft and
cash, etc., was drawn upon for £153,789:
1945. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £573,358 £583,358 £650,932 £650,932
Mortgages .. 23,500 170,000 258,000 400,000
Overdraft .. 123,117 134,210 116,943
Creditors .. 24,191 44,229 49,634 77,920
Tax provision 32,500 46,000 45,500 40,500
Freeholds .. 194,048 393,091 460,111 474,402
Leaseholds .. 3,139 10,144 11,901 14,869
Plant .. 35,131 48,345 66,524 90,164
Stocks .. 186,105 294,676 414,583 521,382
Debtors .. 179,450 347,642 369,060 373,687
Cash, bonds.. 165,277 4,424 7,634 11,488
Last term’s net additions of £106,799 to
stocks (largely on account of rising prices)
and of £40,902 to fixed assets were
financed mainly by an extra £142,000 of
mortgage money. There was 15s. 4d. of
outside money (including tax provision)
in the business for every pound belong-
ing to shareholders when the books
closed.
During 1950 a store is to be erected
on a vacant site at Hobart, bought a year
or so ago for £60,000, and new branches
are to be opened at Canberra (A.C.T.) and
Box Hill (Vic.) in leasehold premises.
When circumstances permit a modern
emporium is to go up on a corner block
(now occupied by a dozen shops) at
Perth, bought in 1946 for £130,000, new
premises are to be built at Warrnambool
(Vic.) and Whyalla (S, Aus.), and exten-
sions are to be made to the main Bourke-
street, Melbourne, branch.
The board has “no immediate plan to
increase issued capital,” but has doubled
nominal capital, raising the figure to
£2,000,000, and, as the building pro-
gramme progresses, some of the unissued
shares are likely to be offered. The present
£650,932 of paid capital is in 167,475 £1
A and 123,015 £1 B prefs., both 7 p.c.
cumulative, and 1,441,768 ords, of ss,
each.
The ords. at 7s, 7d. return 4.9 p.c. on
a 7 p.c. div. basis, and the A prefs. at
31s, 3d. and the B’s at 275. 9d. yield 4.5
p.c. and 5 p.c. respectively. Net tangible
cover is £4 18s. 9d. A’s, £5 7s. 2d. B’s
and 7s. sd. ords.
Gordon Edgell & Sons, Ltd. (N.S.W.)
Pref. To Re- Re-
June Profit. 6$ p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
30, £ £ £ £ £
1943.. 6,130 2469 8£ p.c. = 4,626 43,521
1944.. 13,731 8900 9 „ „ 5,400 4,431 47,952
1945.. 11,495 3900 8 „ ~12,800 42,747
Reduction reserves, £3OO . . . . 42,447
1940.. 27,428 3900 8 p.c. = 12,800 10,728 53,175
Share premiums, £55,200 . . .. 108,375
1947.. 29,855 3900 8 p.c. = 20,160 5,795 114,170
1948.. 36,342 3900 8.1 „ „ 20,412 12,030 126,200
From inner reserves, £1247 .. .. 127,447
Surplus sale assets, £3688 .. .. 131,135
Goodwill written off, £2384 .. .. 128,751
1949.. 46,052 3900 8 p.c. = 20,160 21,992 150,743
The founder and chairman of this
vegetable-canning and -preserving busi-
ness, R. Gordon Edgell, died on Dec, 2,
1949, His son, M. G. Edgell, who grew
up in and contributed much to the de-
velopment of the business, has stepped
into the vacant chair at the head of the
board-table. The father, who had been
a civil engineer in the Public Works De-
partment, bought Francis Suttor’s apple
and pear orchard on the Macquarie River,
near Bathurst, in 1906. Later he decided
to grow asparagus on the river flats and
sell it in bundles on the Sydney market.
The experiment proved so successful that
it was decided to sell the orchard and
begin canning asparagus at Bathurst in
1926. The pack increased from 628 cases
in 1927 to 1220 cases in 1929.
In the following year the present co.
took over the business for £31,000 (in
scrip) and the public put up £lO,OOO of
pref. money for additional working
capital. Cauliflowers, peas and soups
were soon added to the list of factory
products, some of which had already
found an export market. Then war
created a new and strong demand for
the co.’s output, and the volume and
range of production were greatly in-
creased, and so was the co.’s goodwill.
In 1942 477 acres of river flats on the
Lachlan, near Cowra, were bought for
£16,750, and paid for by the issue of
10,000 £1 ords. at a premium of 13s. 6d.
each. A new £120,000 cannery was
erected at Cowra, where production began
in October, 1943. Dehydration plants
were also installed here and at Bathurst.
When defence contracts —they carried
narrow margins and absorbed about
89 p.c. of output in 1945 —ran out at the
end of the war a ready civilian market
awaited the co.’s output, and sales and
profits have stepped along nicely since,
thanks largely to a strong overseas market,
especially for asparagus. Last term sales
increased by £386,462, reaching a record
£1,152,646. After allowing £36,504 (up
£4763) for depreciation and £41,000 (up
£14,000) for taxation, profit was £9710
stronger at £46,052. That covered the
pref. div. and 16.7 p.c. on ord. canital
compared with 12.8, 10.3, 14.7, 47 anfi
16.3 p.c. back to 1944. The div. has
steady at 8 p.c. for the last five years
except for a trifle extra in 1948, when
the last of the tax-free reserve was dis-
tributed.
During the year the can-making section
of the business was sold at a profit of
£3688, and visible reserves benefited by
transfer of an inner provision of £1247
against tinplate stock. At the same time
goodwill (£2384) was rubbed out of the
books.
Over 83 p.c. of the £312,000 of paid
capital was gathered since war broke out
the last issue being 92,000 £1 ords. at a
premium (fixed by capital - control
authorities) of 12s. 6d. each in 1946,
The money was used mainly to wipe out
a Government loan and reduce the over-
draft, which has been increased since to
help finance continued expansion of the
business:
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £220,000 £312,000 £312,000 £312,000
Govt, advance 30,000 _
Overdraft .. 145,010 70,698 273,107 111,618
Creditors .. 30,722 37,840 50,548 49,471
Tax reserve.. 36,208 36,980 44,725 61,316
Land and build-
ings .. 147,7 4 9 1 50,7 2 5 1 47,116 144,797
Plant .. 103,56 2 1 26,6 0 4 117,93 6 97,013
Plantations .. 7,090 8,188 8,152 7,731
Stocks .. 230,311 2 5 7,4 2 8 5 13,87 1 393,392
Book debts .. 33,86 4 39,38 9 30,47 7 65,735
Cash, etc. .. 715 1,240 1,166 050
Goodwill .. 2,384 2,384 2,384 -
Stocks, which had accumulated at the
close of accounts in 1948 owing to trans-
port difficulties, were reduced by £120,478
last term, and £161,589 was slashed off
the overdraft, while debtors’ balances in-
creased by £25,258. The more-or-less
liquid surplus (£227,472) was £50,338
stronger. They are all healthy move-
ments.
Since the close of accounts sales have
remained buoyant, and production is up,
thanks to a bountiful season. Additional
storage space is to be built at Cowra and
Bathurst, new plant is on order, and a
new share-issue is under consideration,
details of which havfe yet to be an-
nounced.
At 38s. 6d. (40s. three months ago) the
ords. give an immediate return of 4.1 pe-
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 295.
yield 4.5 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£7 14s. 3d. prefs. and 31s. lid. ords.
Allen Taylor and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
May, Profit.* Dividends. serves, serves-
-1942.. 6,529 6 p.c. = 5,010 919 11.619
Surplus sale assets, £3OOO .. ..
1943.. 7,144 6 p.c. = 5,610 1,534 16,053
1944.. 8,735 7 „ „ 6,545 2,190 18,243
1945.. 9,691 8 „ „ 7,480 2,211 20,454
1946.. 10,916 8 „ „ 7,480 8,436 23,890
1947.. 9,253 8 „ „ 7,4 80 1,77 3 25,663
1948.. 10,449 8 „ „ 7,480 2,969 28,632
Share premiums, £7012 .. .. 35 'J"J
1949.. 20,054 8 p.c. = 9,973 10,081 45,725
* Includes additions to reserves. i#
To provide more working capital and
strengthen connections with metropolitan
distributors, this old-established timber
co. announced on Jan. 18 that it would
offer those on the books on Jan. 20
100,672 new 10s. shares at 17s. 6d. each,
which was a shilling more than the price
at which the old shares stood in the
market. Timber Trade Mutual Insurance,
Ltd., whose name already appears on
Taylor’s share register, took firm 75,6/2
of the new issue, plus any of the remain-
ing 25,000 not applied for by other share-
holders. The only justification for charg-
ing such a stiff premium (75 p.c.) was that
the insurance co. was prepared to take the
entire parcel offered at the issue price. Id
July, 1948, 62,332 new 10s. shares were
put out at a premium of 2s. 6d. each. The
premium was then fixed by a capital-
issues control, now abolished.
For 20 years after the public became
interested in 1905, the co, was a steady
10-per-center. Then the age of steel and
concrete and competition from imported
timbers altered the outlook, which slump
worsened. Half the capital was jettisoned
in 1932, and no divs. were paid for tb e


D
FD
More Vleasu*
, from Mototinq
F
CORRECT tyre pressures mean more
than easier riding. They mean safety,
better control, less wear on tyres.
So check your tyre pressures regularly
with the accurate Kismet Tyre Gauge.. .
and when they need more air do the job
in half the time with a Kismet Foot Pump
or Renrut “Quad” Hand Pump. The
unique two-cylinder Supercharger action
makes every stroke unbelievably easy and
at full volume.
KISMET
DF
Manufactured by
WILLIAM TURNER (Kismet)
LTD., Sheffield, England.
Agent in Australia:
MB. E. G. JONES,
43-49 Hardware St., Melb., C. 1.,
G.P.O. Box 71.
i
#
0
-
&
T
LLOYD'S OF LONDON
. . . the first 250 years
1916: THE BATTLE OF JUTLAND
The year the British Navy won its
greatest battle of the first World War,
Lloyd’s and the British Insurance
Companies were making an important
contribution to the ultimate victory by
helping merchant shipping to weather
the war.
LUMLEY'S OF LLOYD'S OFFER A
FREE INSURANCE ADVISORY SERVICE
As insurance brokers Lumley’s are in the position,
hot only to give you complete advice, but also to
call upon the specialised policies of any number of
underwriting organisations, including Lloyd’s of
London. Whatever your insurance need, make sure
your policy has the best possible coverage and most
seasonable rates by consulting lumley’s free
advisory service —in all States of the Common-
wealth
EDWARD LUMLEY
& SONS PTY. LTD.
263 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY : C.M.L. BUILDING
’Phone: SW 2131 72 HUNTER ST.
NEWCASTLE 81810
And all other States.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt. •
* ♦ ♦ *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 188-204 Jtowhn*
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
mm
9
m
The Machinery
People
281 Latrobe St., Melbourne. MU
• Engineers’ Machine 'Tools. * Portable
Flectric Tools # Woodworking Machines.
• Circular and Band Saws. • All types
Saw Bepairs.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE, COMPANY
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS: ,
C. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. BADFORO (Vtoe-Chi
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
BRITAIN IS MAKING THE GOODS
YOU NEED
Designing for your needs now has first call on Britain s
resources and skill. She has studied your requirements, and
has welcomed your buyers in greater numbers every year.
Exhibiting at the British Industries Fair 3,000 manufacturers
will reveal the latest products of ninety industries, and
from every country overseas 16,000 buyers will assemble
to make immediate selections for their own markets.
Making new goods for the world has raised Britain s pro-
duction to a record level. In turn these exports enable her
t 0 buy —and Britain is the world’s greatest customer.
Trade Buyers! Ensure your accommodation now because
tourists also resene Britain's hotels in May.
BRITISH INDUSTRIES FAIR
LONDON MAY 8-19 BIRMINGHAM
INFORMATION about exhibitors, advance catalogues, special
displays and facilities at the Fair can be obtained from the United
Kingdom Trade Commissioner at Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne or
Brisbane: or the Imperial Trade Correspondent at Adelaide or Perth
NCW GILT EDGED
Guaranteed unconditionally by the Government of N.S.W.
The First Public Loan
THE HUNTER
DISTRICT
WATER BOARD
£450,000 at 3 \°/o p.a.
Currency: 15 years, maturing Ist March, 1965
This Loan will enable investors in fixed-interest stocks,
particularly Institutions, Trusts and _ Providen a
Superannuation Funds, to diversify their hoidUngswith
strong security for Principal and Interest
substantial rating revenues, backed by Government
GiisrsnlcCi
THE HUNTER DISTRICT WATER BOARD Is the
water, sewerage and drainage authority for
Australia's "Industrial Capital." Newcastle, and
surrounding districts, the home of vast heavy and
other industries and rapidly becoming the great-
est industrial centre south of the Equator. The
Board serves a quarter of a million people, has
capital assets of £7.6 million and an annual revenue
of £631.000.
Loan Now Open
and closes on or before 21st February.
You can invest as little as £5O or as ranch as £lOO,OOO or
more in a safe, readily-marketable security, ensuring
regularity of income, payable half-yearly, free of exchang ,
in terms of the Prospectns.
An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.,
Queensland and Tasmania
APPLY FOR THIS PROSPECTUS
Available from any office of the Commonwealth Bank (Banker
for the Issue), from the Board's Head Office in Newcastle,
or from members of recognised Stock Exchanges.
LOAN underwritten by
J. B. WERE & SON
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
375 Collins Street, Melbourne; 44 Martin Place, Sydney
half-dozen years to 1933. The
corner was turned m the £ol-
lowing year, when 3 ,P- c - wa s
oTh and regular annual distn-
have been made since.
The rate has been steady at 8 p.c.
for the five years to the close or
ast accounts, making the aver-
se 5.8 P-e. over * he last 16
years.
The co.’s own mills are effi-
cient and situated in good forest
areas on the N. S. Wales North
Coast, it acts as selling agent
for a number of other millers,
and has strong connections in
local and export markets. Since
the war chief impediments to
profit-earning have been short-
ages of labor and rail transport
and rising costs and controlled
selling prices, except in the ex-
port field. The position, how-
ever, is steadily improving. Last
term turnover took a big leap,
and so did net earnings (£20,054,
up £9635), which were second
best in the co.’s history, being
16 p.c. on capital as against
11.1, 9.8, 11.6, 10.3 and 9.3 p.c.
back to 1944,
The new capital (£31,166) and
share premiums (£7012 net)
gathered last term, together with
an extra £36,079 of outside
money, went into property and
plant (up £22,970), stocks (up
£20,412) and book debts (up
£42,220);
1947. 1948. 1949.
£ £> &
Paid capital .. 93,498 93,498 124,604
Overdraft .. 7,811 19,486 20,845
S’dry creditors 102,592 121,838 157,058
Properties and
plant .. 42,412 49,081 72,051
Vessels etc . . 5,896 5,896 5,821
Shares in subsid. 25,000 25,000
Stocks .. 47,940 63,795 84,207
Book debts .. 95,104 106,342 148,562
Investments and .
cash .. 18,952 17,079 17,137
When the books closed there was
still 20s. lOd. of outside money
at risk in the business for every
pound belonging to share-
holders. The need for more
capital was thus obvious.
When all the money on the
present issue is in, paid capital
will be £175,000, on which 8 p.c.
will cafi for £14,000, or £6054
less profit than was claimed last
term. Reserves will benefit by
£37,752 of share premiums. The
outlook in the trade is brighter
than at any time in the last 20
years, but competition is keen
and promises to become keener,
and any recession in economic
activity would deal earnings a
severe blow.
The scrip has been steady in
the market at 16s. 6d. for several
weeks now, which suggests that
the insurance co. probably took
a lot more than its allotted quota
of the new issue. The return
at 16s. 6d. (16s. 9d. after exer-
cising the rights) is 4.8 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div, basis. Allowing
for the new issue, net tangible
cover is 14s. 9d. a share.
In a preliminary statement
King Island Scheelite announces
a profit of about. £63,000 (down
£ 15,000-odd) for the year to
Oct. 31, 1949, of which a 6d.
div. (10 p.c.), same as for previ-
ous term, took £50,000. Techni-
cally the co. put up a better
performance, but the price of
tungsten fell; average received
for the first half of the term was
130 s. Id. and for the second half
935. Id. per unit. Practically
the whole of the output is ex-
ported. London average price
of wolfram for Dec. was 89s.
7d. (stg.) per unit, equal to 112 s.
in Australian currency. Un-
certain as to what the future
holds for the price of the metal,
the market pays 4s. 7d. (6s. 6d.
a year ago) for the co.’s f.-p. ss.
shares.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie
(W.A.), which moved its head-
quarters from London to Mel-
bourne early in 1949, will pay
an interim of 10 p.c., free of
U.K. tax, on April 13. For
year to March 31, 1949, co. paid
10 p.c., also free of U.K. tax,
and for the two years before
that 5 p.c. p.a., subject to U.K.
tax. Gold Exploration and
Finance owns about 30 p.c. of
the co.’s £614,750 of capital. En-
couraging developments have
recently been met with at depth,
and the co.’s 10s. shares have
advanced from Bs. 6d. to 19s. in
the Australian market over the
last nine months.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
After you have lived a long time in
Sydney, visiting the Archibald portrait
exhibition in the National Gallery is
like plunging into a party where you
know half the guests. This year is no
exception. Here are old friends like
Jimmy Macdonald and Joseph Wolinski
—Joe in a self-portrait, rather frail—and
Stuart Gurr; and Mary Edwards and
Phyllis Shillito and Dattilo Rubbo, who
get a mental wave of the hand as you pass
for old acquaintance sake. This year’s
winner by Arthur Murch has a sort of
C. J. Dennis-hero look about him. As
you walk faithfully around the walls
gazing at each picture you sense some-
thing of the hopes, the striving,
the years of work behind these
entries. A woman visitor would
probably decide that when she wins one
of those two-houses-and-motor-car-prize
art-unions she’ll have Melbourne artist
Buckmaster “do” her portrait. There’s
such warmth and graciousness about his
Mrs. Morant. The sight of Sally
Gilmore in black wrapped in a red fox
fur brings back vivid memory of her
“Lady Into Fox” ballet.
The Taiyuan, latest belle of the
China Navigation Company, has caused
quite a Stir on this waterfront. The ship
on her maiden voyage from England
to China brought the wife of the
captain of the ship (Captain Campbell)
and the wives of four of the officers. Sir
John Masson, a director of the company,
and Lady Masson flew out from England
to join the Taiyuan in Melbourne, and
came on to Sydney, as passengers. They
will go on to Hong Kong in her and
then fly back to London. The Taiyuan,
like other Chinese ships in Port Jackson,
wears a deep band of purple around her
black hull. This is a tribute to one of the
company directors who died recently in
London.
On Wednesday afternoon the directors
of G. S. Yuill and Company were at home
in Taiyuan to more than 200 guests.
Many of these, hearing that she was
berthed at No. 7a Circular Quay,
imagined they had to walk only a few
yards to reach her. But a long trek along
a wharf-front practically deserted in the
late-afternoon awaited them before the
ship loomed above them. Drinks were
served in the lounge and on the sports
deck. Visitors, who were received by Sir
John and Lady Masson, were impressed
by the Taiyuan’s beautiful panelling in
Australian woods and by the mural—a
Chinese landscape—at the head of the
main stairway. There were four or
five of the China Navigation Company’s
captains at the party, the Taiyuan’s
Captain Campbell, of course, being one of
them.
Everybody popped into Margaret Gil-
lespie’s farewell-party at the Macquarie
Club last Thursday. Margaret, cool and
looking a§ fresh as a southerly in her
patterned silks and her
small dark-blue hat, received her guests
in the friendly manner for which she is
noted. Early arrival was fellow-traveller
Mrs. Bernard Muscio, who was accom-
panied by her niece Joan Fry. The
A.B.C.’s head, Mr. Boyer, and Mrs. Boyer
came early and, for them, stayed late.
They go off in April or May, travelling
Norwegian. Kitty Smith, who makes
violins, was there with pianist Gwen
Aldis. The Historical Society’s Mr.
Stephens and his sister Miss C. Stephens,
the Roland Fosters, just back from
Bowral, Miss Elizabeth Plummer and
Gladys Marks were among the party-
makers. There were doctors and con-
suls, musicians and architects scattered
in profusion about the club reception-
rooms.
Margaret’s sister, not long back
from a flying visit to America in com-
pany with Dr. Mary Puckey, wore
brown-and-white printed sheers, and Mrs.
Roy Henty was a slim figure in a black
frock of the new narrow silhouette. The
Rupert Scammells, who returned from
their travels a month ago, were among
the afternoon’s warmly-greeted.
Among other well-knowns temporarily
leaving these shores is Mrs. Sam Hardy;
she goes off next month and will later be
joined in London by son Charles. Sister
Mrs. H. C. Osborne gave a farewell-
party for her last week. A Kater group will
enliyen the outgoing Orcades. Journeying
girls will include Rosemary Turnbull and
Margaret Waddell. Mrs. Turnbull and
Mrs. Waddell also make the voyage.
British Trade Commissioner J. R. Adams,
his wife and daughter are other
Orcadians.
Barbara McLachlan is a graduate in
anthropology of Sydney University. Her
job is with the Department of Education
in New Guinea, where she is in charge of
the education of the women and girls
of New Guinea—hygiene and mother-
craft and handcrafts play a great
part in this training. Also, the
girls are developing a passion for
reading, and love to speak English.
When in New Guinea Miss McLachlan
travels between Port Moresby, Bougain-
ville and New Britain, for the department
is busy opening up new schools. Recently
Barbara was sent as a delegate to
U.N.E.S.C.O. conference at Mysore, in
India. Most Asian countries were repre-
sented at the conference, and there was
interesting discussion on rural edu-
cation. Miss McLachlan is at present on
leave in Sydney. Norton Trevaire photo-
graph.
A woman in the Australia lift the
other day told a friend she was Morocco-
bound. But she was no joyous traveller.
She meant she was going to the
Gloucester Room to see the display of
the Leather Footwear and Allied Indus-
tries of Great Britain. Among the ex-
hibits, which are, of course, only samples
and not purchasable, were a glowing
array of scarlet hide cases varying from
the weekender to hanger-case. Shoes
ranged from the polished calf, beauti-
fully-cut English walking-shoe to the gold
sandal of many narrow straps. There
were handbags, with good lining (the
most important part of a handbag) in
morocco, in pigskin, suede and calf. The
two-toned ones were very effective. A
soft round collar-bag in Arabian antique
grain, a curved leather flask, a dice-box
complete with the doings snugly hidden in
the end, doeskin gloves, wrist-length with
fringed top, were exhibits that made a
special dent on the memory. The
suede suits, feather-light and in
fascinating shades, gripped the heart.
There was a classic in tan, and a cardigan-
suit in guardsman-red with matching
beret. This Letter’s favorite was the suit
in dusty-pink super-suede.
The Wanganella took Mrs. Persia
Porter off to Maoriland for a two-
months’ visit. There is not going to be
an inch of that volcanic land which
Persia will not traverse —if the pace isn’t
too much for her. From Auckland to
Stewart Island she will go. On Stewart
Island she will visit the bird-sanctuary
and eat oysters. She goes from Christ-
church to the west coast. She takes in
glaciers and Mt. Cook, the Southland
Lakes and does the Milford Sound walk,
said to be the finest walk in the world.
Rotorua and the upper reaches of the
Wanganui are also included in Persia’s
inventory of Maoriland.
From Melbourne
On February 23 Lady Brooks, wife of
the Governor, will open the Austral
Salon’s diamond jubilee celebrations at
a special musical evening at the British
Musical Society’s rooms. Jeanette Brooks
will accompany her mother. It has been
a tradition, since the founding of the
salon in 1890, that the wife of the Gov-
ernor be invited to take office as presi-
dent, and when this has not been possible
the salon has always been given vice-regal
patronage. A feature of the evening’s
programme will be recitals by soprano
Rita Miller and pianist Madame Kathe
Newman. Mary Compton will be accom-
panist.
St. John’s Church, Toorak, was
beautifully decorated with groupings of
all-white flowers for the late-afternoon
wedding of Marigold Merlyn, younger
daughter of Mrs. .Sidney Baillieu Myer
and the late Sidney Myer, and Ross, elder
son of Mrs. Edgar Shelmerdine, of
Toorak, and the late Edgar Shelmerdine.
The bride’s gown of heavy slipper-satin
in a deep ivory shade was simply cut with
long, tight sleeves and a very full skirt
falling in folds and ending in a short,
rounded train. Where the transparent
yoke of sheer marquisette joined the
wide, oval neckline of the slender bodice
there was a band of pearl embroidery,
and motifs of pearl and firefly crystal
embroidery were lightly scattered over
the bodice. The veil of deep cream tulle
was held to Marigold’s dark hair by a
curvette of satin embroidered with
pearls and set far back on the head.
Short satin gloves finished with tiny bows
at the wrist completed the ensemble.
Gardenias formed the bouquet. Merran
McEacham, the bride’s cousin, and
Penelope Giles were bridesmaids. Their
bouffant gowns were of deep-cream net,
fashioned with overskirts cascading
diagonally from short peplums in front
to ground-length at back and edged
with matching lace. Their bodices, com-
posed of tiny horizontal pleats, were
finished with folded fichus of net, form-
ing portrait necklines. They wore tiny
head-hugging caps of cream-tinted
feathers and they carried trails of
stephanotis and variegated ivy leaves.
Their short net gloves were finished with
frills. Peter Shelmerdine was best man
and Bruce Matear groomsman.
Reception was at Cranlana. Mrs.
Baillieu Myer’s gown of deep-hyacinth-
blue satin had a long skirt composed of
narrow panels widening at the hem, a
fitted bodice embellished with iridescent
sequins and soft folds of tulle in a paler
shade over the shoulders ; her small hat
had an upturned brim fashioned of pale-
blue tulle petals, with a mount of deep-
blue coq feathers sweeping down at one
side. Mrs. Edgar Shelmerdine’s gown
was of deep cafe-au-lait toning, the
bodice of heavy lace and the skirt of
faille, draped up at one side to the waist;
her small matching hat had a feather-
mount. Grandmother of the bride,
Mrs. Baillieu Blackmore, pinned red
roses on the bodice of her midnight-
blue lace gown, which had silver
paillettes. Mrs, C, Lloyd Jones allied
a grey satin bodice and long, slim skirt
of glittering jet sequins; a grey osprey
surmounted her grey feather-cap. Mrs.
Leslie Johnston, who flew from Perth
for the wedding, wore with her gown of
grey and black horizontally-striped satin
a blue fox cape. Mrs. Kenneth Myer’s
heavy off-while linen frock and bolero
were sewn with gold metal thread and
crystal beads and was belted with gold
kid ; her tiny white Dutch bonnet had
the same thread-and-bead treatment
Mrs. Gordon Byron Moore’s flame
chiffons revealed one bare shoulder
Mrs. Everard Baillieu’s bouffant white
tulle gown was mounted on pink satin.
Mrs. Lindsey Biggins’s tulle gown was
pastel-blue, Mrs. H. Bettle wore a slim
gown of midnight-blue crepe. Among
white-gown wearers were Mrs. Ron
Baillieu, Jackie Roberts, Judith Silk and
Sue Wharton.
Mrs. R. W. Chambers, president of the
Royal Melbourne Hospital Auxiliaries,
has just returned after almost a year
abroad. She was accompanied by her
daughter Helen, who is to be one of the
bridesmaids attending Ann Whittaker
when she marries “Tiny” Price. Ann and
Helen were at Merton Hall together, and
then went on to the University, where
Helen did a physiotherapy course.
A hint of the winter winds that are
not so far distant was contained in the
display by Renee of a collection of exotic
furs in their cupboards of rosewood,
handsomely carved to represent the four
seasons. Long- and short-haired furs
combined to make many interesting
models, and black-and-white Arabian kid
was teamed with the softest of black
leather to make lumber-jackets and short,
swing-back coats. Silver-and-blue-fox
collars highlighted black or grey Persian-
lamb coats, the collars being ingeniously
cut so they could be worn in several ways.
Unusual was the Greenland blue-fox
which fashioned a stole ; this swept across
the front and the shoulders into a cape,
almost knee-length at one side. A Scotch
mole coat, three-quarter-length, had at
the waist a tie of tartan wool to match
the lining of the coat. There was a dash-
ing black Persian-lamb cape-stole with a
wide tie-collar, backed with black-and-
white-striped silk, which lined the
luxurious fur. It had a flared back, a
balloon-sleeve effect and pointed panels
to the knees. A mink coat was cut with
a “tunnel” collar, which could be worn
with the collar flat or up with a chiffon
scarf threaded through it. It could also
be worn with or without a belt. <
French nationals visiting this city are
assured of a warm welcome at the home:
of Dr. and Mrs. W. H. Fitchett, of
Elsternwick. They gave a party in honor
of Professor and Mrs. Vial-Mazel, who
were on their way home to France from
French Indo-China, where the professor
is Attache Culture! of the High Com-
mission of France. He is also president
of all Alliances Fran?aises in the Far
East. Commander Bosqui, the captain
of the ship in which the guests-of-honor
were travelling, was among the guests.
Mrs Fitchett’s dinner-gown of midnight-
blue chiffon had long sleeves and a high
neckline, Madame Vial-Mazel wore a
smart two-piece ensemble. Among the
guests were M. and Madame Douez, their
daughter Jannine, M. and Madame Rene
Dupuche, M. and Madame Emile Daillet,
M. and Madame Cau, Madame Jean
Kint, M, Daniel Blonne and Captain John
Hehir.
When Mickey June, only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. W. W. Killough, Toorak,
and Emerson Elwood, elder son of Mr.
and Mrs. Emerson Elwood Lynn, of lola,
Kansas, U.S.A., were married at the
Toorak Methodist Church they followed
a popular American custom and
exchanged plain gold rings during the
ceremony. In the soft light of dozens
of candles the decorations, which corn-
prised stephanotis, roses and tree lily* ol '
the-valley, showed to perfection. The
bride’s classical long-sleeved gown ot
magnolia satin had a deep off-the-
shoulder neckline, covered by a satin
rouleaux yoke mounted on net. The full-
length Brussels-lace veil was caught by a
pearl coronet, and she carried a white
ivory Bible with a marker of tree lily- o *'
the-valley. All the attendants were
American. Evelyn Fischer, as maid-of-
honor, wore a full-skirted off-the-shoulder
gown of apricot net over matching satin,
with matching gloves. The bridesmaid->
Lizz Thomas, Mary Anne Bradley and
flower-girl Judy Davies, wore mist-blue
nylon marquisette over satin. They all
carried Talisman roses and wore coronets
of Cecil Brunner roses. Jack Hale w aS
best man and Geoff Burridge and Nevill 6
Colbran were groomsmen.
Reception was held at the home of the
bride’s parents. Mrs. Killough received
the guests wearing a peacock-green
taffeta gown in which she pinned a purple
orchid, and a matching cape. Among the
guests were Mrs. A. E. Hotchkiss, whose
black crepe gown was worn with a white
Arctic-fox cajs3: Mrs. F, Fox, whose
powder-blue chiffon gdtf n was beaded iu
matching blue ; and Mrs. Donald Camp-
bell, her black taffeta g own having a
bouffant skirt and shoe-stf in g straps.
“THE BULLETIN” STAIRS.
By Nora McAuliffe.
When the September breeze
Sweeps fresh cold from the seas,
And the sky’s a blue feather
Worn by the ruffling weather,
I see them come with their rhymes,
Singers of other times.
See them loiter and stand
With a song in the hand;
With a dream, maybe, in the eyes
Of a dawn that must rise.
When the rod shall blossom, not flay,
And the poorest dog have his day.
A chuckle lives in the note
From this merry man’s throat;
An epigram here has birth
That, Puck-like, circles the earth;
A dryad with brown hair
Keeps step with me on the stair.
Dust gilded by the sun
Is all they see who run;
But if you pause for dreams
You’ll feel the life that teems
About the time-worn ways,
And hear the roundelays.
When the September breeze
Sweeps fresh cold from the seas,
And the sky’s a blue feather.
Worn by the ruffling weather,
Though dead they are not mute,
I know, who hear their lute.


A "bulletin" Pageant
Of A
| h otn 0r l tra} * a n sh t he Pq
Tt * 3rn rSt s ** or?" s *orZ ° Wl *o P A
Pa ssed LLETi * du r nt ip ojj e ’ Ve rse
Afc. > j a “ ri *g the ? n SSUe or' ** «Oc/
***** o°; 3 j Arc hibal years of
**kb fo], nat7les clui’ l 8 - Th PreSeQt ed have
h ** be * lo *> thei 18^
Ta pr esenf A<?r /ft is a
4c/ ****£*•
s ' " Co «e rtetf ‘■'"ox'ed.
case? es - Fe/ s .
fame M '°«d a,'"O'** o/,? s(s a O / 1 "'«&
°«>er s C^ e to ab sorbi„ he ‘ r w »
a 4>a/ n ’.. ,fa «ed y " ,e , t/r ar * rc: >di n „ n,a Oy
you! ' P'ctur °° e Or T '<>o
y^Og{j t ar y Comry. plr iteHi
Pre *oc! V- to , c " *
-Cif* »*Z r,y^ZTr^ ia
m-/9&


A GOLDEN SHANTY
By Edward Dysom
ABOUT ten years ago, not a day’s
tramp from Ballarat, set well back
from a dusty track that started
nowhere in particular and had no
destination worth mentioning, stood the
Shamrock Hotel. It was a low, rambling,
disjointed structure and bore strong
evidence of having been designed by an
amateur artist in a moment of vinous
frenzy. It reached out in several well-
defined angles and had a lean-to building
stuck on here and there ; numerous out-
houses were dropped down about it
promiscuously ; its walls were propped up
in places with logs, and its moss-covered
shingle roof, bowed down with the
weight of years and a great accumula-
tion of stones, hoop-iron, jam-tins,
broken glassware and dried possum
skins, bulged threateningly on the verge
of utter collapse. The Shamrock was
built of sun-dried bricks, of an unhealthy,
bilious tint. Its dirty, shattered windows
were plugged in places with old hats and
discarded female apparel and draped
with green blinds, many of which had
broken their moorings and hung
despondently by one corner. Groups of
ungainly fowls coursed the succulent
grasshopper before the bar door; a
moody, distempered goat rubbed her ribs
against a shattered trough roughly hewn
from the butt of a tree, and a matronly
old sow of spare proportions wallowed
complacently in the dust of the road,
surrounded by her squealing brood.
A battered sign hung out over the door
of the Shamrock informing people that
Michael Doyle was licensed to sell fer-
mented and spirituous liquors and that
good accommodation could be afforded
to both man and beast at the lowest
current rates. But that sign was most
unreliable ; the man who applied to be
accommodated with anything beyond
ardent beverages—liquors so fiery that
they “bit all the way down”—evoked the
astonishment of the proprietor. Bed and
board were quite out of the province of
the Shamrock. There was, in fact, only
one couch professedly at the disposal of
the weary wayfarer, and this, according
to the statement of the few persons who
had ever ventured to try it, seemed
stuffed with old boots and stubble; it
was located immediately beneath a hen-
roost, which was the resting-place of a
maternal fowl, addicted on occasion to
nursing her chickens upon the tired
sleeper’s chest. The turnover at the
Shamrock was not at all extensive, for,
saving an occasional agricultural laborer
who came from “beyant”—which was the
versatile host’s way of designating any
part within a radius of five miles—to
revel in an occasional spree, the trade
was confined to the passing “cockatoo”
farmer, who invariably arrived on a
bony, drooping prad, took a drink and
shuffled away amid clouds of dust.
The only other dwellings within sight
of the Shamrock were a cluster of frail,
ramshackle huts, compiled of slabs, scraps
of matting, zinc and gunny-bag. These
were the habitations of a colony of
squalid, gibbering Chinese fossickers who
herded together like hogs in a crowded
pen as if they had been restricted to that
spot on pain of death or its equivalent,
a washing.
About a quarter of a mile behind the
Shamrock ran, or rather crawled, the
sluggish waters of the Yellow Creek.
Once upon a time, when the Shamrock
was first built, the creek was a beautiful
limpid rivulet running between verdant
banks; but an enterprising prospector,
wandering that way and liking the indi-
cations, put down a shaft and bottomed
on “the wash” at twenty feet, getting half
an ounce to the dish. A rush set in, and
within twelve months the banks of the
creek, for a distance of two miles, were
denuded of their timber, torn up and
covered with unsightly heaps. The creek
had been diverted from its natural course
half a dozen times, and hundreds of
diggers, like busy ants, delved into the
earth and covered its surface with red.
white and yellow tips. Then the miners
left almost as suddenly as they had come ;
the Shamrock, which had resounded with
wild revelry, became as silent as a
morgue and desolation brooded on the
face of the country. When Mr. Michael
Doyle, whose greatest ambition in life
had been to become lord of a pub,
invested in that lucrative country
property saplings were growing between
the deserted holes of the diggings and
agriculture had superseded the mining
industry in those parts.
Landlord Doyle was of Irish extrac-
tion ; his stock w,as so old that everybody
had forgotten where and when it origi-
nated, but Mickey was not proud—he
assumed no unnecessary style, and his
personal appearance would not have led
you to infer that there had been a king in
his family and that his paternal progenitor
had killed a landlord “wanst.” Mickey
was a small, scraggy man with a mop of
grizzled hair and a little red, humorous
face, ever bristling with auburn stubble.
His trousers were the most striking things
about him; they were built on the
premises and always contained enough
stuff to make him a full suit and a winter
overcoat. Mrs. Doyle manufactured
those pants after plans and specifications
of her own designing, and was mighty
PHIL MAY 1886
In Sydney Domain.
“Are We going to play fair now , or all We know ?”
proud when Michael would yank them
up into his armpits and amble round,
peering about discontentedly over the
waistband. “They wus th’ great savin’ in
weskits,” she said.
Of late years it had taken all Mr,
Doyle’s ingenuity to make ends meet.
The tribe of dirty, unkempt urchins who
swarmed about the place “took a power
of feedin’,” and Mrs, D, herself was
“th’ big ater.” “Ye do be atin’ twinty-
four hours a day,” her lord was wont to
remark, “and thin yez must get up av
noights for more. Whin ye’re not atin’
ye’re munchin’ a schnack, bad cess t’ ye.”
In order to provide the provender for
his unreasonably hungry family Mickey
had been compelled to supplement his
takings as a Boniface by acting alter-
nately as fossicker, charcoal-burner and
“wood-jamber”; but it came “terrible
hard” on the little man, who waxed
thinner and thinner and sank deeper into
his trousers every year. Then, to aug-
ment his troubles, came that pestiferous
heathen, the teetotal Chinee. One hot
summer’s day he arrived in numbers,
like a plague, armed with picks, shovels,
dishes, cradles and tubs and with a clatter
of tools and a babble of grotesque gib-
berish, camped by the creek and refused
to go away again. The awesome solitude
of the abandoned diggings was ruthlessly
broken. The deserted field, with its
white mounds and decaying windlass-
stands fallen aslant, which had lain like
a long-forgotton cemetery buried in
primeval forest, was now desecrated by
the hand of the Mongol and the sound
of his weird, Oriental oaths. The Chows
swarmed over the spot, tearing open old
sores, shovelling old tips, sluicing old
tailings, digging, cradling, puddling,
ferreting into every nook and cranny.
Mr. Doyle observed the foreign inva-
sion with mingled feelings of righteous
anger and pained solicitude. He had
found fossicking by the creek very handy
to fall back upon when the wood-jamb-
ing trade was not brisk ; but now that
industry was ruined by Chinese competi-
tion and Michael could only find relief
in deep and earnest profanity.
With the pagan influx began the mys-
terious disappearance of small valuables
from the premises of Michael Doyle,
licensed victualler. Sedate, fluffy old
hens, hitherto noted for their strict pro-
priety and regular hours, would leave
the place at dead of night and return
from their nocturnal rambles never
more; stay-at-home sucking-pigs, which
had erstwhile absolutely refused to be
driven from the door, corrupted by the
new evil, absented themselves suddenly
from the precincts of the Shamrock, tak-
ing with them cooking utensils’ and
various other articles of small value, and
ever afterwards their fate became a
matter for speculation. At last a favor-
ite young porker went, whereupon its
lord and master, resolved to prosecute
inquiries, bounced into the Mongolian
camp and, without any unnecessary pre-
amble, opened the debate.
“Look here, now,” he observed, shak-
ing his fist at the group and bristling
fiercely, “which av ye dhirty haythen
furriners cum up to me house lasht
noight and shtole me pig Nancy? Which
av ye is it so’t I kin bate him, ye bravin'
haythens?”
The placid Orientals surveyed Mr.
Doyle coolly, and innocently smiling,
said “No savee” ; then bandied jests at
his expense in their native tongue and
laughed the little man to scorn. Incensed
by the evident ridicule of the “haythen
furriners” and goaded on by the
smothered squeal of a hidden pig,
Michael went for the nearest Asiatic
and proceeded to “put a head on him as
big as a tank” amid a storm of kicks and
digs from the other Chows. Presently
the battle began to go against the Irish
cause; but Mrs. Mickey, making a
timely appearance, warded off the
surplus Chinamen by chipping at their
skulls with an axe-handle. The riot was
soon quelled, and the two Doyles de-
parted triumphantly, bearing away a cor-
pulent young pig and leaving several
broken, discouraged Chinamen to be doc-
tored at the common expense.
After this gladsome little episode the
(Chinamen held off for a few weeks. Then
they suddenly changed their tactics and
proceeded to cultivate the friendship of
Michael Doyle and his able-bodied wife.
They liberally patronised the Shamrock
and beguiled the licensee with soft but
cheerful conversation; they flattered
Mrs. Doyle in seductive pidgin-English
and endeavored to ensnare the children’s
young affections with preserved ginger.
Michael regarded these advances with
misgiving ; he suspected the Mongolians’
intentions were not honorable, but he
was not a man to spoil trade —to drop
the substance for the shadow.
This state of affairs had continued for
some time before the landlord of the
Shamrock noticed that his new customers
made a point of carrying off a brick every
time they visited his caravanserai. When
leaving the bland heathen would cast his
discriminating eye around the place,
seize upon one of the sun-dried bricks
with which the ground was littered and
steal away with a nonchalant air—as
though it had just occurred to him that
the brick would be a handy thing to keep
by him.
The matter puzzled Mr. Doyle sorely;
he ruminated over it, but he could only
arrive at the conclusion that it was not
advisable to lose custom for the sake of
a few bricks; so the Chinese continued
to walk off with his building material.
When asked what they intended to do
with the bricks they assumed an expres-
sion of the most deplorably hopeless
idiocy and suddenly lost their acquaint-
ance with the “Inglisiman” tongue. If
bricks were mentioned they became as
devoid of sense as wombats, although
they seemed extremely intelligent on most
other points. Mickey noticed that there
was no building in progress at their
camp, also that there were no bricks to
be seen about the domiciles of the pagans,
and he tried to figure out the mystery on
a slate, but, on account of his lamentable
ignorance of mathematics, failed to reach
the unknown quantity and elucidate the
enigma. He watched the invaders march
off with all the loose bricks that were
scattered around and never once com-
plained ; but when they began to ab-
stract one end of his licensed premises
he felt himself called upon, as a husband
and father, to arise and enter a protest,
which he did, pointing out to the Yellow
Agony, in graphic and forcible language,
the gross wickedness of robbing 3
struggling man of his house and home,
and promising faithfully to “bate” the
next lop-eared Child of the Sun whom
he “cot shiftin’ a’er a brick.”
“Ye dogs! Wud yez shtale me hotel,
so’t whin me family go insoide they’ll be
out in the rain?” he queried, looking hurt
and indignant.
The Chinaman said “No savee.” Yet,
after this warning, doubtless out of con-
sideration for the feelings of Mr. Doyle*
they went to great pains and displayed
much ingenuity in abstracting bricks
without his cognisance. But Mickey was
active; he watched them closely, and
whenever he caught a Chow in the act
a brief and one-sided conflict raged and
a dismantled Chinaman crawled home
with much difficulty.
This violent conduct on the part of
the landlord served in time to entirely
alienate the Mongolian custom from the


shamrock and once more Mickey and
£ Chows spake not when they met.
Once more, too, promising young pullets
and other portable valuables began to go
astray and still the hole in the wall grew
till the after-part of the Shamrock looked
" ;f it had suffered recent bombard-
ment The Chinamen came while
Michael slept and filched his hotel inch
bv inch. They lost their natural rest and
ran the gauntlet of Mr. Doyles stick
and his curse-for the sake of a few
bricks. At all hours of the night they
crept through the gloom and warily stole
a bat or two, getting away unnoticed per-
haps or, mayhap, only disturbing the
slumbers of Mrs. Doyle, who was a very
light sleeper for a woman of her size.
In the latter case the lady would awaken
her lord by holding his nose—a very
effective plan of her own—and, filled to
overflowing with the rage which comes
of a midnight awakening, Mickey would
turn out of doors in his shirt to cope
with the marauders and course them over
the paddocks. If he caught a heathen he
laid himself out for five minutes’ ener-
getic entertainment, which fully repaid
him for lost rest and missing hens and
left a Chinaman too heartsick and sore
to steal anything for at least a week. But
the Chinaman’s friends would come as
usual, and the pillage went on.
Michael Doyle puzzled himself to
prostration over this insatiable and un-
reasonable hunger for bricks ; such an
infatuation on the part of men for cold
and unresponsive clay had never before
come within the pale of his experience.
Times out of mind he threatened to
“have the law on the yalla blaggards” ;
but the law was a long way off, and the
Celestial housebreakers continued to
elope with scraps of the Shamrock, tak-
ing the proprietor’s assaults humbly and
as a matter of course.
“Why do ye be shtealing me house?”
fiercely queried Mr. Doyle of a submis-
sive Chow whom he had taken one night
in the act of ambling off with a brick in
either hand.
“Me no steal ’em, no feah —odder
feller him steal ’em,” replied the quaking
pagan.
Mickey was dumb-stricken for the
moment by this awful prevarication ; but
that did not impair the velocity of his
kick this to his great subsequent regret,
for the Chinaman had stowed a third
brick away in his pants for convenience
ot transit and the landlord struck that
bnck ; then he sat down and repeated
aloud all the profanity he knew.
The Chinaman escaped and had
presence of mind enough to retain his
burden of clay.
Month after month the work of
devastation went on. Mr. Doyle fixed in-
genious mechanical contrivances about
is ouse, and turned out at early dawn
ho , w many Chinamen he had
,i d on *y to hod his spring-traps
en hotel yawning more
cS r !, te y ,-. than e Y er - . Then Michael
, . kat lift up his voice and swear—
mg else afforded him any relief.
At last he hit upon a brilliant idea. He
commssionefi a “cocky” who was
dniT tr. mt ° ® a fi ara t to buy him a
criL • lar , BeS £ fiercest, ugliest, hun-
gnest animal the town afforded; and
a P. oWerful > iU-tempered canine,
uulv ac 35 blg as a P° n y anc i quite as
as m.?rH any ni ghtmare, was duly installed
mck p; ia^ an i. n l ght ' watch at the Sham-
his fintu gh^.wel [ the 8 0 °d dog performed
had tbe lowing morning he
boot a P cf> leS to . s fi° w in the shape of a
half ° f blue du ngaree trousers,
part n P lgtai1 ’ a yellow ear and a large
fusUh/n i Partia ly ’ shaved scalp; and
he noc t u mal visits ceased.
round p n h r S s ? ent a week skirmishing
round endeavormg to call the dog off,
rowed nor be be 88 ed ’ bor-
fashioned to to i Cn ’• he was to ° old -
Prevented th?* pois ,? ned meat, and he
familiaritv be , smade st approach to
by snannina part of a Chinaman
tions of P v B ° ff , tbe most serviceable por-
ing a scran and always fetch-
This in P t f heathen along with them.
Patient’ rh.-id" 16 ’ s ? rely discouraged the
Off hold no 6ll ° f thC SUn ’ Wh ° dreW
eighty and glve tbe matte r
ing for somp erat ion. deliberat-
aPPointed a ays .t be yellow settlement
Doyle Mint PUtatl ° n t 0 wait u P O n Mr.
armed' i them omin 8 and
his dog Mrs r£ f ° 8 and unchain ed
side. b?andkhina D u y 6 ran I ged U P along-
humble eestnr^ B be J axe-handle, but by
ing the g c £ es , aad a deferential bear-
truce * de P utatl °n signified a
and tested on bt ad hdd his dog down
ments. The rv armS to await develop-
ing biandlv • t J ina men advanced, smil-
D oyle fra VJL ,i hey gave Mr. and Mrs.
with that wb B m etmgS and squirmed
Peculiar to “John” obsequiousness
dfing to gain T hen he has s°me-
-8 §am by it.. A pock-marked leper
placed himself in the van as spokesman.
“Nicee day, Missa Doyle,” said the
moon-faced gentleman sweetly. Then,
with a sudden expression of great interest
and nodding towards Mrs. Doyle, “How
you sissetah?”
“Foind out! Fwhat yer wantin’?” re-
plied the host of the Shamrock gruffly.
“T’ shtale more bricks, ye crawlin’ blag-
gards?”
“No, no. Me not steal ’em blick—
odder feller; he hide ’em; build big
house byem-bye.”
“Ye loi, ye screw-faced nayger! I
seed ye do it, and if yez don’t cut and
run I’ll lave the dog loose to feed on yer
dhirty carcasses.”
The dog tried to reach for his favorite
hold, Mickey brandished his log and
Mrs. Doyle took a fresh grip of her
weapon. This demonstration gave the
Chows a cold shiver and brought them
promptly down to business.
“We buy ’em hotel; what for you
sell ’em —eh?”
“Fwhat! Yez buy me hotel? D’ye
mane it? Purchis th’ primisis and yez
can shtale ivery brick at yer laysure. But
ye’re joakin’. Whoop! Look ye here!
I’ll have th’ lot av yez aten up in two
minnits if yez play yer Choinase thricks
on Michael Doyle.”
The Chinamen eagerly protested that
they were in earnest, and Mickey gave
them a judicial hearing. For two years
he had been in want of a customer for
the Shamrock, and he now hailed the
PHIL MAY 1886
IN SYDNEY BOTANICAL GARDENS.
“Ha! She thinks we’re aidekongs!”
offer of his visitors with secret delight.
After haggling for an hour, during which
time the ignorant Hi Yup of the con-
torted countenance displayed his usual
business tact, a bargain was struck. The
yellow men agreed to give fifty pounds
cash for the Shamrock and all buildings
appertaining thereto, and the following
Monday was the day fixed for Michael
to journey into Ballarat with a couple
of representative heathens to sign the
transfer papers and receive the cash.
The deputation departed smiling, and
when it gave the news of its triumph to
the other denizens of the camp there was
a perfect babel of congratulations in the
quaint dialogue of the Mongol. The
Chinamen proceeded to make a night of
it in their own outlandish way, indulging
freely in the seductive opium and holding
high carouse over an extemporised fan-
tan table, proceedings which made it
evident that they thought they were get-
ting to windward of Michael Doyle,
licensed victualler.
Michael, too, was rejoicing with ex-
ceeding great joy and felicitating himself
on being the shrewdest little man who
ever left the “ould sod.” He had not
hoped to get more than a twenty-pound
note for the dilapidated old humpy,
erected on Crown land and unlikely to
stand the wear and tear of another year.
As for the business, it had fallen to zero
and would not have kept a Chinaman in
soap. So Mr. Doyle plumed himself
on his bargain and expanded till he
nearly filled his capacious garments.
Still, he was harassed to know what
could possibly have attached the Chinese
so strongly to the Shamrock. They had
taken samples from every part of the
establishment and fully satisfied them-
selves as to the quality of the bricks, and
now they wanted to buy. It was most
peculiar. Michael “had never seen any-
thing so quare before, savin’ wanst whin
his grandfather was a boy.”
After the agreement arrived at between
the publican and the Chinese, one or two
of the latter hung about the hotel nearly
all their time in sentinel fashion. The
dog was kept on the chain and lay in the
sun in a state of moody melancholy,
narrowly scrutinising the Mongolians.
He was a strongly anti-Chinese dog, and
had been educated to regard the almond-
eyed invader with mistrust and hate ; it
was repugnant to his principles to lie low
when the heathen was around, and he
evinced his resentment by growling cease-
lessly.
Sunday dawned. It was a magnificent
morning; but the rattle of the China-
men’s cradles and toms sounded from
the creek as usual. Three or four suave
and civil Asiatics, however, still lingered
around the Shamrock and kept an eye
on it in the interests of all, for the pur-
chase of the hotel was to be a joint-stock
affair. These “Johns” seemed to imagine
they had already taken lawful posses-
sion ; they sat in the bar most of the
(Continued overleaf.)


time, drinking little, but always affable
and genial. Michael suffered them to
stay, for he feared that any fractiousness
on his part might upset the agreement,
and that was a consummation to be
avoided above all things. They had told
him, with many tender smiles and much
gesticulation, that they intended to live
in the house when it became theirs ; but
Mr. Doyle was not interested —his fifty
pounds was all he thought of.
Michael was in high spirits that morn-
ing ; he beamed complacently on all and
sundry, appointed the day as a time of
family rejoicing, and in the excess of his
emotion actually slew for dinner a prime
young sucking-pig, an extravagant luxury
indulged in by the Doyles only on state
occasions. On this particular Sunday the
younger members of the Doyle household
gathered round the festive board and
waited impatiently for the lifting of the
lid of the camp-oven. There were nine
children in all, ranging in years from
fourteen downwards “foine, shtrappin’
childer, wid th’ clear brain,” said the
prejudiced Michael. The round, juicy
sucker was at last placed upon the table.
Mrs. Doyle stood prepared to administer
her department—serving the vegetables
to her hungry brood —and, armed with
a formidable knife and fork, Michael,
enveloped in savory steam, hovered over
the pig.
But there was one function yet to be
performed—a function which came as
regularly as Sunday’s dinner itself. Never,
for years, had the housefather failed to
touch up a certain prodigious knife on
one particular hard yellow brick in the
wall by the door preparatory to carving
"HOP" (Livingston Hopkins) 1888
YOUNG AUSTRALIA.
Couldn’t he be better employed?
the Sunday’s meat. Mickey examined
the edge of his weapon critically and
found it unsatisfactory. The knife was
nearly ground through the backbone;
another “touch-up” and it must surely
collapse, but, in view of his changed cir-
cumstances, Mr. Doyle felt that he might
take the risk. The brick, too, was worn
an inch deep. A few sharp strokes from
Mickey’s vigorous right arm were all that
was required; but, alas! the knife
snapped, whereupon Mr. Doyle swore at
the brick as if holding it immediately
responsible for the mishap, and stabbed
at it fiercely with the broken carver.
“Howly Moses! Fwhat’s that?”
The brick fell to pieces, and there, em-
bedded in the wall, gleaming in the sun-
beam, was a nugget of yellow gold. With
feverish haste Mickey tore the brick from
its bedding and smashed the gold-bear-
ing fragment on the hearth. The nugget
was a little beauty, smooth, round and
four ounces to a grain.
The sucking-pig froze and stiffened in
its fat, the “taters” and the cabbage
stood neglected on the dishes. The truth
had dawned upon Michael, and, whilst
the sound of a spirited debate in musical
Chinese echoed from the bar, his family
were gathered around him open-mouthed
and Mickey was industriously but quietly
pounding the sun-dried brick in a digger’s
mortar. Two bricks, one from either end
of the Shamrock, were pulverised, and
Michael panned off the dirt in a tub of
water which stood in the kitchen. Re-
sult: seven grains of waterworn gold.
Until now Michael had worked dumbly,
in a fit of nervous excitement; now he
started up, bristling like a hedgehog.
“Let loose th’ dog, Mary Melinda
Doyle! ” he howled, and, uttering a
mighty whoop, he bounded into the bar
to dust those Chinamen off his premises.
“Gerrout!” hp screamed. “Gerrout av
me primises, ye thavin’ crawlers!” And
he frolicked with the astounded Mon-
golians like a tornado in full blast,
thumping at a shaven occiput whenever
one showed out of the struggling crowd.
The Chinamen left; they found the dog
waiting for them outside, and he en-
couraged them to greater haste. Like
startled fawns the heathens fled, and
Mr. Doyle followed them howling:
“Buy the Shamrock, wud yez! Rob-
bers! Thaves! Fitch back th’ soide o’
me house or Oi’ll have th’ law onto yez
all.”
The damaged escapees communicated
the intelligence of their overthrow to their
brethren on the creek, and the news
carried consternation, and deep, dark
woe to the pagans, who clustered together
and ruefully discussed the situation.
Mr. Doyle was wildly jubilant. His
joy was only tinctured with a spice of
bitterness, the result of knowing that the
“haythens” had got away with a few
hundreds of his precious bricks. He tried
to figure out the amount of gold his
hotel must contain, but again his ignor-
ance of arithmetic tripped him up, and
already in imagination Michael Doyle,
licensed victualler, was a millionaire and
a J.P.
The Shamrock was really a treasure-
house. The dirt of which the bricks were
composed had been taken from the banks
of the Yellow Creek years before the
outbreak of the rush by an eccentric
German who had settled on that sylvan
spot. The German died, and his gro-
tesque structure passed into other hands.
Time went on, and then came the rush.
The banks of the creek were found to
be charged with gold for miles, but never
for a moment did it occur to anvb n :
that the clumsy old building by the tr a l'
now converted into a hotel, was com’
posed of the same rich dirt; never Si
years after, when by accident one of ti!!
Mongolian fossickers discovered gra j r J
of gold in a few bats he had taken to J
as hobs. The intelligence was conveyed
to his fellows ; they got more bricks air
more gold—hence the robbery of y.
Doyle’s building material and the anxiety
of the Mongolians to buy the Shamrock
Before nightfall Michael summoned
half a dozen men from “beyant” to heln
him in protecting his hotel from a p 0s .
sible Chinese invasion. Other bricks
were crushed and yielded splendid pros-
pects. The Shamrock’s small stock of
liquor was drunk and everybody became
hilarious. On the Sunday night, under
cover of the darkness, the Chows made
a sudden sally on the Shamrock, hoping
to get away with plunder. They were
violently received, however ; they got no
bricks and returned to their camp broken
and disconsolate.
Next day the work of demolition was
begun. Drays were backed up against the
Shamrock, and load by load the precious
bricks were carted away to a neighboring
battery. The Chinamen slouched about,
watching greedily, but their now half-
hearted attempts at interference met with
painful reprisal. Mr. Doyle sent his
family and furniture to Ballarat, and in
a week there was not a vestige left to
mark the spot where once the Shamrock
flourished. Every scrap of its walls wem
through the mill, and the sum of one
thousand nine hundred and eighty-three
pounds sterling was cleared out of the
ruins of the hostelry. Mr. Doyle is now
a man of some standing in Victoria, and
as a highly-respected J.P. has often been
pleased to inform a Chinaman that it was
“foive pound or a month.” [1887.]
AUSTRALIA.
By Bernard O’Dowd.
Last sea-thing dredged by sailor Time from
Space,
Are you a drift Sargasso, where the Wes!
In halcyon calm rebuilds her fatal nest?
Or Delos of a coming Sun-God’s race?
Are you for Light, and trimmed, with oil
in place,
Or but a Will o’ Wisp on marshy q uest?
A new demesne for Mammon to infest?
Or lurks millennial Eden ’neath your face?
The cenotaphs ‘of species dead elsewhere
That in your limits leap and swim and Ify
Or trail uncanny harp-strings from y° ut
trees.
Mix omens with the auguries that dare
To plant the Cross upon your forehea-
sky,
A virgin’ helpmate Ocean at your knee®'
THE CHILD WE LOST.
By Shaw Neilson.
Six weeks it was till Christmas-time-
The summer seemed not far away
The white sheep ran upon the hill»>
The white lambs bleated all the day<
Gladness was over all the land.
Like something out of God’s own ha n 1
His children fair would understand.
The garden was a world of bloom.
The cherry-trees were red and gr een '
Two miles away the white smoke r° se '
And always did there come between
The glory that we feel and know
When sunlight seems to overflow
Into a green warm world below.
Our brown-eyed beauty claimed a k ls *’
Sweet were her words, and full of
Light as the dancing thistledown
Was all her airy talk that day—
Of flowers, and skies, and heavenly thin?
And sometimes softest whisperings
Like music trembling on the stringB-
- to the child was very fair;
Up from the ranges, far and blue,
The sun came rosily each morn.
Lighting the little world she knev.-
It was the time when bush-birds sing'
And children’s thoughts go wandering’
And Summertime makes love to Spr
* * * *
Back in the dim grey time they
Of children tempted far away
In the white glimmering of the mo° n '
In twilight, or at dawn of day.
One evening, when the sun was doW '
A woman came: her eyes were broW
But our child came not from the


THE DROWVER'S WIFE
BY HENRY LAWSON
THE two-roomed house is built of
round timber, slabs, and stringy-
bark, and floored with split slabs.
A big bark kitchen standing at one
end is larger than the house itself,
verandah included.
Bush all round —bush with no horizon,
for the country is flat. No ranges in the
distance. The bush consists of stunted,
rotten native apple-trees. No under-
growth. Nothing to relieve the eye save
the darker green of a few sheoaks which
are sighing above the narrow, almost
waterless creek. Nineteen miles to the
nearest sign of civilisation —a shanty on
the main road.
The drover, an ex-squatter, is away
with sheep. His wife and children are
left here alone.
Four ragged, dried-up-looking children
are playing about the house. Suddenly
one of them yells; “Snake! Mother,
here’s a snake!”
The gaunt, sun-browned bushwoman
dashes from the kitchen, snatches her
baby from the ground, holds it on her
left hip, and reaches for a stick.
“Where is it?”
“Here! Gone into the wood-heap!”
yells the eldest boy—a sharp-faced urchin
of eleven. “Stop there, Mother! I’ll
have him. Stand back! I’ll have the
beggar! ”
“Tommy, come here, or you’ll be bit.
Come here at once when I tell you, you
little wretch!”
The youngster comes reluctantly, carry-
ing a stick bigger than himself. Then
he yells triumphantly ;
There it goes—under the house! ” and
darts away with club uplifted. At
the same time the big, black, yellow-eyed
dog-of-all-breeds, who has shown the
wildest interest in the proceedings, breaks
.is ch am and rushes after that snake. He
is a moment late, however, and his nose
reaches the crack in the slabs just as the
end of its tail disappears. Almost at the
ame moment the boy’s club comes down
and skins the aforesaid nose. Alligator
a es small notice of this, and proceeds
cnk^ nd f ri^ine tbe building; but he is
subdued after a struggle and chained up.
Jhey cannot afford to lose him.
ct*i5 e * drov , er,s wife makes the children
d near tke doghouse while
emou^u 68 or tbe snake - She gets two
nps i dishes of milk and sets them down
l r the wall to tempt it to come out;
Swltsdf" 80es by and il does not
k near ® unse t, and a thunderstorm
inojfi ,n |- Tbe children must be brought
honcp r She u W1 ! 1 not take them into the
anri rv,’ * or sbe knows the snake is there,
a rrarX y at a i? y moment come up through
carripc m tb f rougb slab floor; so she
the r it i eVeral arrnfuls of firewood into
there xk’ a , nd then takes the children
rather kltcben has no floor—or,
floor’’’ fn f arthern one—called a “ground
is a lor thlS part of tbe busb - There
centre rou g bl y- m ade table in the
chiiH P^ ace - She brings the
table^Th 1 ’ and makes them B e t on this
-mere T htfn- boys and two
sunner , ShC glVes them some
goes into d ti hCn v: bef ° re 11 gets dark ’ she
some niii tbe b ? use ’ an d snatches up
to see or r. and u bedcd °thes—expecting
minute bei j band on tbe snake an y
table for th ma i', s , a bed on the kitchen
besidr i? t the cblldren > and sits down
Jr- J to watch all night.
sanhW TkT-?? corner ’ and a
the dresser bv v! ub -l ld m read mess on
basket her Slde ; also her sewing-
Journal ” °t the “ Young Ladies’
th e room. haS brought the d og into
*?,’ UUd u T Protest ’ but says
blinded snale mgland smash that
she bim how man y times
He LI u- hlm not to swear.
bedclothes him under the
“Mummy' T Cky P ™ tests:
alive wif hie -i 7 ? 1 ” 1 ?? s, sk innin’ me
out.” club. Make him take it
to S h et K Up ’ you little !
up e blt Wlth the snake? "
“If yer bit,” says Tommy, after a
pause, “you’ll swell up, an’ smell, an’
turn red an’ green an’ blue all over till
yer bust. Won’t he, Mother?”
“Now then, don’t frighten the child.
Go to sleep,” she says. .
The two youngeV children go to sleep,
and now and then Jacky complains of
being “skeezed.” More room is made
for him. Presently Tommy says;
“Mother. Listen to them (adjective)
little possums. I’d like to screw their
blanky necks.”
And Jacky protests drowsily.
“But they don’t hurt us, the little
blanks! ”
Mother: “There, I told you you’d
teach Jacky* to swear.” But the remark
makes her smile. Jacky goes to sleep.
Presently Tommy asks:
“Mother! Do you think they’ll ever
extricate the (adjective) kangaroo?”
“Lord! How am I to know, child?
Go to sleep.”
“Will you wake me if the snake comes
out?”
“Yes. Go to sleep.”
Near midnight. The children are all
FRANK P. MAHONY 1895
A DREAM OF DROUGHT-TIME.
asleep and she sits there still, sewing
arid reading by turns. From time to
time she glances round the floor and
wall-plate, and, whenever she hears a
noise, she reaches for the stick. The
thunderstorm comes on, and the wind,
rushing through the cracks in the slab
wall, threatens to blow out her candle.
She places it on a sheltered part of the
dresser anc fixes up a newspaper to
prole .it A' every flash of lightning
the .ricks between the slabs gleam like
polished silver. The thunder rolls, and
th; comes down in torrents.
Alligator lies at full length on the
fle ", u h his e> ,f> s ♦uraed towards the
pa Ton She km «... by this that the
sn ■ there. The.'. re large cracks in
that wall opening under the floor of the
dwelling-house.
She is not a coward, but recent events
have shaken her nerves. A little son
of her brother-in-law was lately bitten by
a snake, and died. Besides, she has not
heard from her husband for six months,
and is anxious about him.
He was a drover, and started squatting
here when they were married. The
drought of 18— ruined him. He had
to sacrifice the remnant of his flock and
go droving again. He intends to move
his family into the nearest town when he
comes back, and, in the meantime, his
brother, who keeps a shanty on the main
road, comes over about once a month
with provisions. The wife has still a
couple of cows, one horse, and a few
sheep. The brother-in-law kills one of
the latter occasionally, gives her what
she needs of it, and takes the rest in
return for other provisions.
She is used to being left alone. She
once lived like this for eighteen months.
As a girl she built the usual castles in
the air; but all her girlish hopes and
aspirations have long been dead. She
finds all the excitement and recreation
she needs in the “Young Ladies Journal,”
and (Heaven help her!) takes a pleasure
in the fashion-plates.
Her husband is an Australian, and so
is she. He is careless, but a good enough
husband. If he had the means he would
take her to the city and keep her there
like a princess. They are used to being
apart, or at least she is. “No use fretting,”
she says. He may forget sometimes that
he is married; but if he has a good
cheque when he comes back he will give
most of it to her. When he had money
he took her to the city several times —
hired a railway sleeping compartment,
and put up at the best hotels. He also
bought her a buggy, but they had to
sacrifice that along with the rest.
The last two children were born in the
bush —one while her husband was bring-
ing a drunken doctor, by force, to attend
to her. She was alone on this occasion,
and very weak. She had been ill with a
fever. She prayed to God to send her
assistance. God sent Black Mary—the
“whitest” gin in all the land. Or, at
least, God sent King Jimmy first, and he
sent Black Mary. He put his black
face round the door-post, took in the
situation at a glance, and said cheerfully:
“All right, missus—l bring my old
woman, she down alonga creek.”
One of the children died while she was
here alone. She rode nineteen miles for
assistance, carrying the dead child.
j'T must be near one or two o’clock. Th
Afire is burning low. Alligator lies wit
his head resting on his paws, and watche
the wall. He is not a very beautiful dog
and the light shows numerous old wound
where the hair will not grow. He i
afraid of nothing on the face of the eart
or under it. He will tackle a bulloc
as readily as he will tackle a flea. H
hates all other dogs—except kangaroo
dogs—and has a marked dislike to friend
or relations of the family. They seldom
call, however. He sometimes make
friends with strangers. He hates snake
and has killed many, but he will be
bitten some day and die ; most snake
dogs end that way.
Now and then the bushwoman lays
down her work and watches, and listens
and thinks. She thinks of things in her
own life, for there is little else to think
about.
The rain will make the grass grow
and this reminds her how she fought
bushfire once while her husband was
away. The grass was long and very dry
and the fire threatened to burn her out
She put on an old pair of her husband’s
trousers and beat out the flames with
green bough, till great drops of sooty
perspiration stood out on her foreheac
and ran in streaks down her blackenec
arms. The sight of his mother in trousers
greatly amused Tommy, who worked like
a little hero by her side, but the terrifiec
baby howled lustily for his “mummy.’
The fire would have mastered her but for
four excited bushmen who arrived in the
nick of time. It was a mixed-up affair
all round ; when she went to take up the
baby he screamed and struggled convul-
sively, thinking it was a “blackman”
and Alligator, trusting more to the child’s
sense than his own instinct, charged furi-
ously, and (being old and slightly deaf)
did not in his excitement at first recognise
his mistress’s voice, but continued to hang
on to the moleskins until choked off by
Tommy with a saddle-strap. The dog’s
sorrow for his blunder, and his anxiety
to let it be known that it was all a mis-
take, was as evident as his ragged tail
and a twelve-inch grin could make it.
It was a glorious time for the boys; a
day to look back to, and talk about, and
laugh over for many years.
She thinks how she fought a flood
during her husband’s absence. She stood
for hours in the drenching downpour,
and dug an overflow gutter to save the
dam across the creek. But she could
not save it, There are things that a
bushwoman cannot do. Next morning
the dam was broken, and her heart was
nearly broken, too, for she thought how
her husband would feel when he came
home and saw the result of years of
labor swept away. She cried then.
She also fought the pleuro-pneumonia
—dosed and bled the few remaining
cattle, and wept again when her two best
cows died.
Again, she fought a mad bullock that
besieged the house for a day. She made
bullets and fired at him through the
cracks in the slabs with an old shotgun.
He was dead in the morning. She skinned
him and got seventeen-and-sixpence for
the hide.
She also fights the crows and eagles
that have designs on her chickens. Her
plan of campaign is very original. The
children cry “Crows, mother!” and she
rushes out and aims a broomstick at the
birds as though it were a gun, and says
“Bung! ” The crows leave in a hurry ;
they are cunning, but a woman’s cunning
is greater.
Occasionally a bushman in the horrors,
or a villainous-looking sundowner, comes
and nearly scares the life out of her.
She generally tells the suspicious-looking
stranger that her husband and two sons
are at work below the dam, or over at the
yard, for he always cunningly inquires
for the boss.
Only last week a gallows-faced swag-
man —having satisfied Jnmself that there
were no men on the place—threw his
swag down on her veranda, and de-
manded tucker. She gave him something
to eat; then he expressed his intention of
staying for the night. It was sundown
then. She got a batten from the sofa,
loosened the dog, and confronted the
stranger, holding the batten in one hand
and the dog’s collar with the other. “Now
you go!” she said. He looked at her
and die dog, said “All right, Mum,” in
a cringing tone, and left. She was a
determined-looking woman, and Alli-
gator’s yellow eyes glared unpleasantly—
oContinued on page 24.)


THE MAN FROM SNOWY RIVER
By A. B. Paterson.
There was movement at the station, for the
word had passed around
That the colt from old Regret had
got away,
And had joined the wild bush horses —4ie
was worth a thousand pound,
So all the cracks had gathered to the
fray.
All the tried and noted riders from the
stations near and far
Had mustered at the homestead over-
night,
For the bushmen love hard riding where
the wild bush horses are,
And the stock-horse snuffs the battle
with delight.
There was Harrison, who made his pile
when Pardon won the cup,
The old man with his hair as white as
snow;
But few could ride beside him when his
blood was fairly up—
He would go wherever horse and man
could go.
And Clancy of the Overflow came down
to lend a hand.
No better horseman ever held the reins;
For never horse could throw him while
the saddle-girths would stand—
He learnt to ride while droving on the
plains.
And one was there, a stripling on a small
and weedy beast;
He was something like a racehorse
undersized,
With a touch of Timor pony—three parts
thoroughbred at least—
And such as are by mountain horsemen
prized.
He was hard and tough and wiry—just the
sort that won’t say die
There was courage in his quick im-
patient tread;
And he bore the badge of gameness in his
bright and fiery eye,
And the proud and lofty carriage of his
head.
But still so slight and weedy, one would
doubt his power to stay,
And the old man said “That horse will
never do
For a long and tiring gallop—lad, you’d
better stop away.
Those hills are far too rough for such
as you.”
So he waited, sad and wistful only
Clancy stood his friend—
“l think we ought to let him come,” he
said;
“I warrant he’ll be with us when he’s
wanted at the end.
For both his horse and he are
mountain-bred.
“He hails from Snowy River, up by Kos-
ciusko’s side,
Where the hills are twice as steep and
twice as rough;
Where a horse’s hoofs strike firelight from
the flint-stones every stride,
The man that holds his own is good
enough.
And the Snowy River riders on the
mountains make their home,
Where the river runs those giant hills
between;
I have seen full many horsemen since I
first commenced to roam,
But nowhere yet such horsemen have
I seen.”
D. H. SOUTER 1898
"He said my beauty intoxicated him."
"My dear, some men get quite tipsy on one small whisky
So he went; they found the horses by the
big mimosa clump.
They raced away towards the mountain’s
brow,
And the old man gave his orders, “Boys,
go at them from the jump,
No use to try for fancy riding now.
And, Clancy, you must wheel them, try
and wheel them to the right.
Ride boldly, lad, and never fear the
spills,
For never yet was rider that could keep
the mob in sight.
If once they gain the shelter of those
hills.”
So Clancy rode to wheel them—he was
racing on the wing
Where the best and boldest riders take
their place.
And he raced his stock-horse past them,
and he made the ranges ring
With the stockwhip, as he met them
face to face.
Then they halted for a moment, while he
swung the dreaded lash,
But they saw their well-loved mountain
full in view,
And they charged beneath the stockwhip
with a sharp and sudden dash,
And off into the mountain scrub they
flew.
TOM DURKIN 1895
At the Larrikins’ Ball.
Then fast the horsemen followed, where
the gorges deep and black
Resounded to the thunder of their tread,
And the stockwhips woke the echoes, and
they fiercely answered back
From cliffs and crags that beetled over-
head.
And upward, ever upward, the wild
horses held their way,
FRANK P. MAHONY 1897
The Squatter’s Hornpipe.
(Usually danced at shearing-time to the tune of “Baaing, Barking
and Blasphemy.”)
Where mountain ash and kurrajong
grew wide;
And the old man muttered fiercely, “We
may bid the mob good day,
No man can hold them down the other
side.”
When they reached the mountain summit,
even Clancy took a pull—
It well might make the boldest hold
their breath;
The wild hop scrub grew thickly, and the
hidden ground was full
Of wombat-holes, and any slip was
death.
But the man from Snowy River let the
pony have his head,
And he swung his stockwhip round and
gave a cheer.
And he raced him down the mountain like
a torrent down its bed,
While the others stood and watched in
very fear.
He sent the flint-stones flying, but the
pony kept his feet,
He cleared the fallen timber in his stride,
And the man from Snowy River never
shifted in his sea!
It was grar Lo see lit iou: i orse-
man i c.
Through the ingy-barks and saplings,
on the r ut-h and broken ground,
Down the I 1 - ai a racing pace he
went;
And he neve r d ... bridle till 1 ’ inded
safe and sound
At the bottom of taa- >1 > Ut t.
He was right among the horses as they
climbed the farther hill,
And the watchers on the mountain,
standing mute,
Saw him ply the stockwhip fiercely; he
was right among them still,
As he raced across the clearing in
pursuit.
Then they lost him for a moment, where
two mountain gullies met
In the ranges-—-but a final glimpse
reveals
On a dim and distant hillside the wild
horses racing yet,
With the man from Snowy River at
their heels.
And he ran them single-handed till their
sides were white with foam;
He followed like a bloodhound on their
track,
Till they halted, cowed and beaten; then
he turned their heads for home,
And alone and unassisted brought them
back.
But his hardy mountain pony he could
scarcely raise a trot.
He was blood from hip to shoulder
from the spur;
But his pluck was still undaunted, and hi*
courage fiery hot,
For never yet was mountain horse a
cur.
And down by Kosciusko, where the pme-
clad ridges raise
Their torn and rugged battlements on
high,
Where the air is clear as crystal, and the
white stars fairly blaze
At midnight in the cold and frosty sky,
And where around the Overflow the reed-
beds sweep and sway
To the breezes, and the rolling pla‘ ns
are wide.
The Man from Snowy River is a
household
word today.
And the stockmen tell the story of hi*
ride.
I AM SHUT OUT OF MINE OWN
HEART.
By Christopher Brennan.
I am shut out of mine own heart
because my Love is far from me
nor in the wonder have 1 part
that fills its hidden empery; '.jm
the wildwood of adventurous thought
and lands of dawn my dream had won,
and riches out of Faerie brought
are buried with our bridal sun;
and I am in a narrow place
and all its little streets are cold
because the absence of her face
hath reft the sullen air of gold.
My home is in a broader day
sometimes I catch it glistening
thro the dull gate, a flower’d play
and odor of undying Spring;
the long days that I lived alone,
sweet madness of the Springs I miss d
are shed beyond and thro' them blown
clear laughter and my lips are kiss’d
—and here from mine own joy apa r *
I wait the turning of the key:
I am shut out of mine own heart
because my Love is far from me. JJm


CRANKY JACK
IT was early in the day. Traveller
after traveller was trudging by Shingle
Hut. One who carried no swag
halted at the rails and came in. He
asked Dad for a job. “I dunno,” Dad
answered —“what wages would you
want?” The man said he wouldn’t want
any. Dad engaged him at once.
And such a man! bony, heavy-
jawed, shaven with a reaping-hook appa-
rently. He had a thick crop of black
hair —shaggy, unkempt, and full of
grease, grass and fragments of dry gum-
leaves. On his head were two old felt
hats —one sewn inside the other. On
his back a shirt made from a piece of
blue blanket, with white cotton stitches
striding up and down it like lines of
fencing. His trousers were gloom itself ;
they were a problem, and bore reliable
evidence of his industry. No ordinary
person would consider himself out of
work while in them. And the newcomer
was no ordinary person. He seemed to
have all the woe of the world upon him ;
he was as sad and weird-looking as a
widow out in the wet.
In the yard was a large heap of fire-
wood-remarkable truth! —which Dad
told him to chop up. He began. And
how he jvorked! The axe rang again—
particularly when it left the handle—
and pieces of wood scattered everywhere.
Dad watched him chopping for a while,
then went with Dave to pull corn.
For hours the man chopped away with-
out once looking at the sun. Mother
came out. Joy! She had never seen
so much wood cut before. She was de-
hghted She made a cup of tea and took
a to the man, and apologised for having
no sugar to put in it. He paid no
attenUon to her; he worked harder.
Mother waited, holding the tea in her
and- u- A um P °f wood nearly as big
as a shingle flew up and shaved her left
car. She put the tea on the ground and
went m search of eggs for dinner. (We
. rc °ut meat —the kangaroo-dog was
w^killed 6 ) had 80t lripped ” the last time
Jhetea remained on the ground. Chips
. m J n *° The d °S saw il - He limped
ards it eagerly, and dipped the point
ot bus nose m it. It burnt him. An
J drooster strutted along and looked
awnv ayS Tf at lt- He dlst rusted it and went
nin/v at tracted the pig—a sow with
nnlfpH n! n 8 ones> wad dled up, and
shp j Cup over with her nose ; then
iovnnd do 'y n 0n it, while the family
them Y Bathered round the saucer. Still
M n chopped on-
returned—without any eggs.
Sd S from the P>gs
said 1 «S/. d cun °usly to the man. She
teal’’ xt dy> you’ve let them take the
‘ No a uswer. She wondered.
axe^ew^ff andfor the fiftieth time, the
.^ e man held handle
niched hfm u he woodhea P- Mother
looked inc T’ removed his hats, and
ine inside them ■ He remained look-
iips ,0 mo e v r eH Wa ‘ C u hed klm more c l° se ty- His
They're m’ • said > “ Listen to them !
“Wh o 9 1 knCW they ’ d f° llow
slightly ’ Mother, trembling
“Ha!^ha \ e tJ:e wood!” he went on.
get out • * V€ got them. They’ll never
u ver Set out!”
inside Cre^ ming - She ran
assist w C^ led t the children. Sal
bies—au but n? ey £ ooped m like walla-
money 1 H?, J C ’ was away ear ning
from 7 Malonov 8 f ttlng a shillin 8 a week
f rom the com fot ChaSmg cockatoos
and h f al Cl0 t S n ed v and bar ricaded the doors,
Mother had ItfT gun ’ which
bed. Thev JIf at iw hlde beneat h the
intently Ttf at “ st ®ung, anxiously and
y- The wmd began to rise. A
BY STEELE RUDD
( A rthur H. Davis)
lump of soot fell from the chimney into
the fireplace—where there was no fire.
Mother shuddered. Some more fell.
Mother jumped to her feet. So did Sal.
They looked at each other in dismay.
The children began to cry. The chain
for hanging the kettle on started swinging
to and fro. Mother’s knees gave way.
The chain continued swinging. A pair of
bare legs came down into the fireplace
—they were curled round the chain.
Mother collapsed. Sal screamed, and ran
to the door, but couldn’t open it. The
legs left the chain and dangled in the
air. Sal called “Murder!”
Her cry was answered. It was loe,
who had been over at Maloney’s making
his fortune. He came to the rescue. He
dropped out of the chimney and shook
himself. Sal stared at him. He was
calm and covered from head to foot with
GEORGE LAMBERT and "THE BREAKER" 1903
Tom's droving days long
since are done;
The wet tear oft has
dimmed my eye ;
But days when I was
wooed and won
Come back to me ...“
when stock go by I
THE BREAKER.
soot and dirt. He looked round and said,
“Thought yuz could keep me out, didn’t
y’?” Sal could only look at him. “I
saw yuz all run in,” he was saying, when
Sal thought of Mother, and sprang to her.
Sal shook her, and slapped her, and threw
water on her till she sat up and stared
about. Then Joe stared.
Dad came in for dir" r —which, of
course, v . Mother began to
cry, lu 'a what he meant by
keeping a madman on the place, and told
him she knew he wanted to have them all
mu: Dad didn’t understand. Sal
explained. Then he went out and told
the man to “Clear!” The man simply
said “No.”
“Go on, now!” Dad said, pointing to
the rails. The man smiled at the wood-
heap as he worked. Dad waited. “Ain’t
y’ going?” he repeated.
“Leave me alone when I’m chopping
wood for the missus,” the man answered ;
then smiled and muttered to himself. Dad
left him alone and went inside wonder-
ing.
Next day Mother and Dad were talking
at the barn. Mother, bare-headed, was
holding some eggs in her apron. Dad
was leaning on a hoe.
“I am afraid of him,” Mother said.
“It’s not right you should keep him about
the place. No one’s safe with such a
man. Some day he’ll take it in his head
to kill us all, and then”
“Tut, tut, woman ; poor old lack! He’s
harmless as a baby.”
“All right” (sullenly); “you’ll see! ”
Dad laughed and went away with the
hoe on his shoulder to cut burr.
Middle of summer. Dad and Dave in
the paddock mowing lucerne. lack sink-
ing post-holes for a milking-yard close to
the house. loe at intervals stealing behind
him to prick him with straws through a
rent in the rear of his patched moleskins.
Little Bill—in readiness to run—standing
off, enjoying the sport.
Inside the house sat Mother and Sal,
sewing and talking of Maloney’s new
baby.
“Dear me,” said Mother, “it’s the tiniest
mite of a thing I ever saw; why, bless
me, anyone of y’ at its age would have
made three of”
“Mind, Mother!” Sal shrieked, jump-
ing up on the sofa. Mother screamed
and mounted the table. Both gasped for
breath, and leaning cautiously over
peeped down at a big black snake which
had glided in at the front door. Then,
pale and scared-looking, they stared
across at each other.
The snake crawled over to the safe and
drank up some milk which had been spilt
on the floor. Mother saw its full length
and groaned. The snake wriggled to
the leg of the table,
“Look out!” cried Sal, gathering up
her skirts and dancing about on the sofa.
Mother squealed hysterically.
Joe appeared. He laughed.
“You wretch!” Mother yelled. “Run!
—run and fetch your father!”
Joe went and brought Jack.
“Oh-h, my God! ” Mother moaned,
as Jack stood at the door, staring strangely
at her. “Kill it! Why don’t he kill
it!”
Jack didn’t move, but talked to him-
self. Mother shuddered.
The reptile crawled to the bedroom
door. Then for the first time the man’s
eyes rested upon it. It glided into the
bedroom, and Mother and Sal ran off
for Dad.
Jack fixed his eyes on the snake and
continued muttering to himself. Several
times it made an attempt to mount the
dressing-table. Finally it succeeded. Sud-
denly Jack’s demeanor changed. He
threw off his ragged hat and talked
wildly. A fearful expression filled his
ugly features. His voice altered.
“You’re the Devil!” he said. “The
Devil! The Devil! The missus brought
you—ah-h-h! ”
The snake’s head passed behind the
looking-glass. Jack drew nearer, clench-
ing his fists and gesticulating. As he did
he came full before the looking-glass and
saw, perhaps for the first time in his life,
his own image. An unearthly howl came
from him. “Me father!’’ he shouted,
and bolted from the house.
Dad came in with the long-handled
shovel, swung it about the room, and
smashed pieces off the cradle, and tore
the bed-curtains down, and made a great
noise altogether. Finally, he killed the
snake and put it on the fire, and Joe and
the cat watched it wriggle on the hot
coals.
Meanwhile, Jack, bare-headed, rushed
across the yard. He ran over little Bill,
and tumbled through the wire-fence on
to the broad of his back. He roared
like a wild beast, clutched at space, and
spat, and kicked his heels in the air.
“Let me up!— ah-h-h! —let go me
throat!” he hissed.
The dog ran over and barked at him.
He found his feet again, and, making
off, ran through the wheat, glancing back
over his shoulder as he tore along. He
crossed into the grass paddock, and,
running to a big tree, dodged round and
round it. Then from tree to tree he
went, and that evening at sundown, when
Joe was bringing the cows home, Jack
was still flying from “his father.”
After supper—
“l wonder now what the old fool saw
in that snake to send him off his head
like that?” Dad said, gazing wonderingly
into the fire. “He sees plenty of them,
goodness knows.”
“That wasn’t it. It wasn’t the snake
at all,” Mother said ; “there was madness
in the man’s eyes all the while. I saw it
the moment he came to the door.” She
appealed to Sal.
“Nonsense!” said Dad. “Nonsense !”
And he tried to laugh.
“Oh, of course it’s nonsense,’’ Mother
went on ; “everything I say is nonsense.
It won’t be nonsense when you come
home some day and find us all on the
floor with our throats cut.”
“Pshaw! ” Dad answered. “What’s the
use of talking like that?” Then to Dave;
“Go out and see if he’s in the barn!”
Dave fidgeted. He didn’t like the idea.
Joe giggled.
“Surely you’re not frightened?” Dad
shouted.
Dave colored up.
“No —don’t think so,” he said ; and,
after a pause, “You go and see.”
It was Dad’s turn to feel uneasy. He
pretended to straighten the fire, and
coughed several times. “Perhaps it’s just
as well,” he said, “to let him be tonight.”
Of course, Dad wasn’t afraid; he said
he wasn’t, but he drove the pegs in the
doors and windows before going to bed
that night.
Next morning Dad said to Dave and
Joe, “Come ’long, and well see where
he’s got to.”
In a gully at the back of the grass-
paddock they found him. He was plough-
ing—sitting astride the highest limb of
a fallen tree, and, in a hoarse voice and
strange, calling out —-“Gee, Captain!
come here. Tidy!— Wa-ay !”
“Blowed if I know,” Dad muttered,
coming to a standstill. “Wonder if he is
clean mad?”
Dave was speechless, and Joe began
to tremble.
They listened. And as the man’s voice
rang out in the quiet gully and the echoes
(Continued overleaf.)
WHEN STOCK GO BY.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A H me / how clearly they come back—
/j Those golden days of long..ago,
When down the j droughty Bosran track
Tom came with stock from Ivanhoe 1
The cattle passed our homestead gate,
Beside our well I watched them pass !
While Dad was in a fearful stale
About his water and his grass.
Tom rode a bonny dark-bay nag ;
He wore a battered cabbage-tree ;
And as I filled our water-bag
He came and asked a drink from me.
Tom said that drink was just like wine ;
He said my eyes were soft and brown ;
He said there were 'no eyes like mine
From Dandaloo to Sydney town.
I watched him with a trembling lip,
Yet little thought I then that he
Who asked a drink from me
that trip
Would next trip ask my
Dad for me / _. v


besides the dog’s chawing-up apparatus
greatly resembled that of the reptile he
was named after.
She has few pleasures to think of as
she sits here alone by the fire, on guard
against a snake. All days are much the
same to her; but on Sunday afternoon
she dresses herself, tidies the children,
smartens up baby, and goes for a lonely
walk along the bush-track, pushing
an old perambulator in front of her. She
does this every Sunday. She takes as
much care to make herself and the
children look smart as she would if she
were going to do the block in the city.
There is nothing to see, however, and
not a soul to meet. You might walk for
twenty miles along this track without
being able to fix a point in your mind,
unless you are a bushman. This is be-
cause of the everlasting, maddening
sameness of the stunted trees—that mono-
tony which makes a man long to break
away and travel as far as trains can go,
and sail as far as ship can sail—and
further.
But this bushwoman is used to the
loneliness of it. As a girl-wife she hated
it, but now she would feel strange away
from it.
She is glad when her husband returns,
but she does not gush or make a fuss
about it. She gets him something good
to eat, and tidies up the children.
She seems contented with her lot. She
loves her children, but has no time to
show it. She seems harsh to them. Her
surroundings are not favorable to the
development of the “womanly” or senti-
mental side of nature.
It must be near morning now; but the
clock is in the dwelling-house. Her
candle is nearly done ; she forgot that she
was out of candles. Some more wood
must be got to keep the fire up, and so
she shuts the dog inside and hurries
round to the wood-heap. The rain has
cleared off. She seizes a stick, pulls it out,
and—crash!—the whole pile collapses.
Yesterday she bargained with a stray
blackfellow to bring her some wood, and
while he was at work she went in search
of a missing cow. She was absent an
hour or so, and the native black made
good use of his time. On her return
she was so astonished to see a good heap
of wood by the chimney that she gave
him an extra fig of tobacco, and praised
him for not being lazy. He thanked her,
and left with head erect and chest well
out. He was the last of his tribe and
a king ; but he had built that wood-heap
hollow.
She is hurt now, and tears spring to
her eyes as she sits down again by the
table. She takes up a handkerchief to
wipe the tears away, but pokes her eyes
with her bare fingers instead. The hand-
kerchief is full of holes, and she finds
that she has put her thumb through one,
and her forefinger through another.
This makes her laugh, to the surprise
of the dog. She has a keen, very keen,
sense of the ridiculous; and some time
she will amuse bushmen with
She had been amused before like that,
One day she sat down “to have a good
cry,” as she said—and the old cat rubbed
against her dress and “cried too ” Then
she had to laugh.
It must be near daylight now. The
room is very close and hot because of
the fire. Alligator still watches the wall
from time to time. Suddenly he becomes
greatly interested; he draws himself a
few inches nearer the partition and a
thrill runs through his body. The hair
on the back of his neck begins to bristle,
and the battle-light is in his yellow eyes,
She knows what this means, and lays
her hand on the stick. The lower end of
one of the partition slabs has a large
crack on both sides. An evil pair of
small, bright, bead-like eyes glisten at one
of those holes. The snake—a black one
—comes slowly out, about a foot, and
moves its head up and down. The dog
lies still, and the woman sits as one
fascinated. The snake comes out a foot
further. She lifts her stick, and the
reptile, as though suddenly aware of the
danger, sticks his head in through the
crack on the other side of the slab, and
hurries to get his tail round after him.
Alligator springs, and his jaws come
together with a snap. He misses, for his
nose is large, and the snake’s body close
down in the angle formed by the slabs
and the floor. He snaps again as the
tail comes round. He has the snake now,
and tugs it out eighteen inches. Thud,
thud comes the woman’s club on the
ground. Alligator pulls again. Thud,
thud. Alligator gives another pull, and
fie has the snake out—a black brute,
five feet long. The head rises to dart
about, but the dog has the enemy close
to the neck. He is a big, heavy dog, but
quick as a terrier. He shakes the
snake as though he felt the original curse
in common with mankind. The eldest
boy wakes up, seizes his stick, and tries
to get out of bed, but his mother forces
him back with a grip of iron. Thud,
thud—the snake’s back is broken in
several places. Thud, thud—its head is
crushed, and Alligator’s nose skinned
again.
She lifts the mangled reptile on the
point of her stick, carries it to the fire,
and throws it in; then piles on the wood
and watches the snake burn. The boy
and dog watch, too. She lays her hand
on the dog’s head, and all the fierce,
angry light dies out of his yellow eyes,
The younger children are quieted, and
presently go to sleep. The dirty-legged
boy stands for a moment in his shirt,
watching the fire. Presently he looks
up at her, sees the tears in her eyes, and,
throwing his arms round her neck, ex-
claims:
“Mother, I won’t never go drovin’;
blarst me if I do! ”
And she hugs him to her worn-out
breast and kisses him ; and they sit thus
together while the sickly daylight breaks
over the bush. [1892.]
rumbled round the ridge and the affrighted
birds flew up, the place felt eerie some-
how,
“It’s no use bein’ afraid of him,” Dad
went on. “We must go and bounce
him, that’s all,” But there was a tremor
in Dad’s voice which Dave didn’t like.
“See if he knows us, anyway”—and
Dad shouted “Hey-y !”
Jack looked up and immediately
scrambled from the limb. That was.
enough for Dave. He turned and made
tracks. So did Dad and Joe. They ran.
No one could have run harder. Terror
overcame Joe. He squealed and grabbed
hold of Dad’s shirt, which was ballooning
in the wind.
“Let go!” Dad gasped. “Damn y’, let
me go !”—trying to shake him off. But
Joe had great faith in his parent, and
clung to him closely.
When they had covered a hundred
yards or so Dave glanced back, and
seeing that Jack wasn’t pursuing them,
stopped and chuckled at the others.
“Eh?” Dad said, completely winded —
“Eh.” Then to Dave, when he got some
breath:
“Well, you are an ass of a fellow.”
(Puff.) “What th’ devil did y’ run f?”
“Wot did I run f’? What did you
run f?”
“Bah!” And Dad boldly led the way
back.
“Now look here” (turning fiercely upon
Joe), “don’t you come catching hold of
me again, or if y’ do I’ll knock y’r
damned head 0ff!.... Clear home
altogether, and get under the bed if y’re
as frightened as that.”
Joe slunk'behind.
But when Dad did approach Jack,
which wasn’t until he had talked a great
deal to him across a big log, the latter
didn’t show any desire to take life, but
allowed himself to be escorted home and
locked in the barn quietly enough.
Dad kept Jack c0 M nflne J in th s e barn
several days, and if anyone approached
the door or the cracks he would ask:
“Is me father there yet?”
“ Your father’s dead and buried long
man > ’ Dad used to tell him.
X es > ,^ e w . oulcl sa Y, “but he’s alive
again. The missus keeps him in there ’
indicating the house.
And sometimes when Dad was not
abou ‘ Jo , e would P ut his mouth t 0 a
cra t. an , , , ~ „ ...
Her . ea yr ( f“‘ her ’ lack! ™ cn ; like
a caged beast the man would howl and
' ra “P W and d ° wn ’ hls f*™* °. ut
bolt msld f,
a " d teU Mother that Jack s getting out,
and nearl Y send her to her grave.
But one day Jack did get out, and,
w hile Mother and Sal were ironing, came
to the door with the axe on his shoulder.
They dropped the irons, and shrank
into a corner and cowed piteously— too
scared even t 0 cry out
He no no tj ce c f them, but, moving
stealthily on tiptoe, approached the bed-
room door and peeped in. He paused
just a moment to grip the axe with both
hands. Then with a howl and a bound
he entered the room and shattered the
looking-glass into fragments.
He bent down and looked closely at
the pieces,
“He’s dead now,” he said calmly, and
walked out-. Then he went to work at
the post-holes again, just as though no-
thing had happened.
Fifteen years have passed since then,
and the man is still at Shingle Hut, He’s
the best horse Dad ever had. He slaves
from daylight till dark ; keeps no Sun-
day; knows no companion; lives chiefly
on meat and machine oil; domiciles in
the barn; and has never asked for a
rise in his wages. His name we never
knew. We call him “Jack.” The neigh-
bors call him “Cranky Jack.” [1897.]
GEORGE LAMBERT 1899
THE BUSHMAN: “The colt has just got over the strangles
AUGUSTUS (from England); “ Stwangles , eh? Did he do it
with a wope?”
STARS IN THE SEA
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
FRED
LEIST
and
RODERIC
QUINN.
1899
I took a boat on a starry night
And went for a row on the water,
And she danced like a child on her wake
of light.
And bowed where the ripples caught her.
I vowed as I rode on the velvet blue
Through the night and the starry
splendor.
To woo and sue a maiden I knew
Till she bent to my pleadings tender.
My painted boat she was light and glad.
And gladder my heart with wishing,
And I came in time to a little lad
Who stood on the rocks a-fishing.
I said “Ahoy!” and he said “Ahoy!”
And I asked how the fish were biting
“And what are you trying to catch, my
boy.
Bream, silver and red—or whiting?’*
“Neither,” he answered; “the seaweed
mars
My line, and the sharp shells sunder
I am trying my luck with those great, big
stars
Down there in the round skies under.”
Good-bye from him, and good-bye from
me.
And never a laugh came after;
So many go fishing for stars in the sea
That it’s hardly a subject for laughter.
RODERIC QUINN.


BILL THE VENTRILOQUIAL ROOSTER
BY HENRY LAWSON
<<t \ HEN we were up-country on
\A / se l ect i° n we had a rooster
y y at our place named Bill,” said
Mitchell; “a big mongrel of
no particular breed, though the old lady
said he was a ‘brimmer’ —and many an
argument she had with the old man about
it, too ; she was just as stubborn and
obstinate in her opinion as the governor
was in his. But, anyway, we called him
Bill, and didn’t take any particular notice
of him till a cousin of some of us came
from Sydney on a visit to the country,
and stayed at our place because it was
cheaper than stopping at a pub. Well,
somehow this chap got interested in Bill,
and studied him for two or three days,
and at last he says:
“ ‘Why, that rooster’s a ventriloquist! ’
“‘A what?’
“‘A ventriloquist!’
“ ‘Go along with yer! ’
“ ‘But he is, I’ve heard of cases like
this before ; but this is the first I’ve come
across. Bill’s a ventriloquist right
enough.’
“Then we remembered that there wasn’t
another rooster within five miles —our
only neighbor, an Irishman named Page,
didn’t have one at the time —and we’d
often heard another cock crow, but didn’t
think to take any notice of it. We
watched Bill, and sure enough he was
a ventriloquist. The ‘ka-cocka’ would
come all right, but the ‘co-ka-koo-oi-oo’
seemed to come from a distance. And
sometimes the whole crow would go
wrong, and come back like an echo that
had been lost for a year. Bill would
stand on tiptoe, and hold his elbows out,
and curve his neck, and go two or three
times as if he were swallowing nest-eggs,
and nearly break his neck and burst his
gizzard ; and then there’d be no sound at
all where he was —only a cock crowing
in the distance.
“And pretty soon we could see that
Bill was in great trouble about it him-
PERCY SPENCE 1900
“Your husband made quite a fortune since he came to Australia,
I believe?"
“ Begorra, thin, yez may Well say that. I mind the toime when he
hadn't a sate to his trousers, and now he s got a sate in
Parliament."
self. You see, he didn’t know it was him-
self —thought it was another rooster
challenging him, and he wanted badly to
find that other bird. He would get up
on the wood-heap and crow and listen
■—crow and listen again—crow and listen,
and then he’d go up to the top of the
paddock and get up on the stack and
crow and listen there. Then down to the
other end of the paddock and get up on
a mullock-heap and crow and listen there.
Then across to the other side and up on a
log among the saplings, and crow ’n’ listen
some more. He searched all over the
place for that other rooster, but of course
couldn’t find him. Sometimes he’d be
out all day crowing and listening all over
the country, and then come home dead
tired, and rest and cool off in a hole
that the hens had scratched for him in
a damp place under the water-cask
sledge.
“Well, one day Page brought home a
big white rooster, and when he let it go
it climbed up on Page’s stack and crowed,
to see if there was any more roosters
round there. Bill had come home tired ;
it was a hot day, and he’d rooted out
the hens, and was having a spell-oh under
the cask when the white rooster crowed,
Bill didn’t lose any time getting out and
on to the wood-heap, and then he waited
till he heard the crow again; then he
crowed, and the other rooster crowed
again, and they crowed at each other for
three days, and called each other all the
wretches they could lay their tongues to,
and after that they implored each other
to come out and be made into chicken
soup and feather pillows. But neither’d
come.' You see, there were three crows —
there was Bill’s crow, and the ventrilo-
quist crow, and the white rooster’s crow
—and each rooster thought that there was
two roosters in the opposition camp, and
that he mightn’t get fair play, and, con-
sequently, both were afraid to put up
their hands.
“But at last Bill couldn’t stand it any
longer. He made up his mind to go and
have it out, even if there was a whole
agricultural show of prize and honor-
able-mention fighting-cocks in Page’s
yard. He got down from the wood-heap
and started off across the ploughed field,
his head down, his elbows out, and his
thick awkward legs prodding away at
the furrows behind for all they were
worth.
“I wanted to go down badly and see
the fight, and barrack for Bill. But I
daren’t, because I’d been coming up the
road late the night before with my brother
Joe, and there was about three panels
of turkeys roosting along on the top rail
of Page’s front fence ; and we brushed
them with a bough, and they got up such a
blessed gobbling fuss about it that Page
came out in his shirt and saw us running
D. H. SOUTER 1903
"Men don't marry so young as they used to."
"No, the world is getting wiser every day — it's only a question
of time when we won't marry at all."
> away; and I knew he was laying for
us with a bullock-whip. Besides, there
r was friction between the two families on
I account of a thoroughbred bull that
. page borrowed and wouldn’t lend to us,
and that got into our paddock on account
’ of me mending a panel in the party
| fence and carelessly leaving the top rail
down after sundown while our cows
: was moving round there in the saplings,
- “So there was too much friction for
' me to go down, but I climbed a tree
as near the fence as I could and watched,
Bill reckoned he’d found that rooster at
last The white rooster wouldn’t come
down from the stack, so Bill went up
to him, and they fought there till they
tumbled down the other side, and I
couldn’t see any more. Wasn’t I wild?
I’d have given my dog to have seen the
rest of the fight. I went down to the
far side of Page’s fence and climbed a
tree there, but, of course, I couldn’t see
anything, so I came home the back way.
Just as I got home Page came round to
the front and sung out, Tnsoid there! ’
And me and Jim went under the house
like snakes and looked out round a pile,
But Page was all right—he had a broad
grin on his face, and Bill safe under his
arm. He put Bill down on the ground
very carefully, and says he to the old
folks:
‘“Yer rooster knocked the stuffin’ out
of my rooster, but I bear no malice,
Twas a grand foight.’
, ,T „ .. u„ c |
And then
a yarn, and got pretty c y '
And Bill didn t seem to bother a y
about ventriloquism; but the wmte
rooster spent a lot of time looking tor
that other rooster. Perhaps he thought
he’d have better luck with him. But
Page was on the look-out all the time
to get a rooster that would lick ours,
He did nothing else for a month but ride
round and inquire about roosters ; and
at last he borrowed a game-bird in town,
left five pounds deposit on him, and
brought him home. And Page and the
old man agreed to have a match—about
the only thing they’d agreed about for
five years. And they fixed it up for a
Sunday when the old lady and the girls
and kids were going on a visit to some
relations, about fifteen miles away—to
stop all night. The guv’nor made me go
with them on horseback; but I knew
what was up, and so my pony went lame
about a mile along the road, and I had
to come back and turn him out in the
top paddock and hide the saddle and
bridle in a hollow log, and sneak home
and climb up on the roof of the shed.
It was an awful hot day, and I had
to keep climbing backward and forward
over the ridge-pole all the morning to
keep out of sight of the old man, for
he was moving about a good deal.
“Well, after dinner, the fellows from
round about began to ride in and hang
up their horses round the place till it
looked as if there was going to be a
funeral. Some of the chaps saw me, of
course, but I tipped them the wink, and
they gave me the office whenever the
old man happened around.
“Well, Page came along with his game-
rooster. Its name was Jim. It wasn’t
much to look at, and it seemed a good
deal smaller and weaker than Bill. Some
of the chaps were disgusted, and said it
wasn’t a game-rooster at all; Bill’d settle
it in one lick, and they wouldn’t have
any fun.
“Well, they brought the game one out
and put him down near the wood-heap.
and routed Bill out from under his cask.
He got interested at once. He looked
at Jim, and got up on the wood-heap and
crowed and looked at Jim again. He
reckoned this at last was the fowl that
had been humbugging him all along.
Presently his trouble caught him, and
then he’d crow and take a squint at the
game ’un, and crow again, and have an-
other squint at gamey, and try to crow
and keep his eye on the game-rooster at
the same time. But Jim never committed
himself, until at last he happened to gape
Just after Bill’s whole crow went wrong
and Biff spotted him. He reckoned he d
caught him this time and he got down
off that wood-heap and went for the foe.
But Jim ran away—and Bill ran after
him.
“Round and round the wood-heap they
went, and round the shed, and round the
house and under it, and back again, and
round the wood-heap and over it and
round the other way, and kept it up for
close on an hour. Bill’s bill was just
within an inch or so of the game-rooster’s
tail feathers most of the time, but he
couldn’t get any nearer, do how he liked.
And all the time the fellers kept chyackm’
Page and singing out, ‘What price yer
game ’un, Page! Go it. Bill! Go it, old
cock!’ and all that sort of thing. Well,
the game-rooster went as if it was a go-
as-you-please, and he didn’t care if it
lasted a year. He didn’t seem to take
any interest in the business, but Bill got
excited, and by and by he got mad, He
h ? s head y lower and lower and his
wings further and further out from his
sides, and prodded away harder and
barder at the ground behind, but it wasn’t
any use jj m se emed to keep ahead
w uh o ut trying. They stuck to the wood-
heap towards the last. They went round
fi rs t one way for a while, and then the
other for a change, and now and then
they’d go over the top to break the
monotony ; and the chaps got more inter-
ested in the race than they would have
been in the fight—and bet on it, too.
But Bill was handicapped with his weight,
He was done up at last; he slowed down
till he couldn’t waddle, and then, when
he was thoroughly knocked up, that game-
rooster turned on him, and gave him the
father of a hiding,
“And my father caught me when I’d
got down in the excitement, and wasn’t
thinking, and he gave me the stepfather
of a hiding, But he had a lively time
with the old lady afterwards, over the
cock-fight.
“BiU was so disgusted with himself
that he went under the cask and died.”
[1898.]


THE HAUNTED TUNNEL
BY TIM CILLINS
(JOSEPH FURPHY)
AS Francis Xavier wove his whole
life into the first great Oriental
mission, so Fred Schlapp had
blasted and picked and gadded his
immortal soul into the tunnel which led
from Snake Gully to the bottom of the
waterlogged shaft on No. 309. It was a
beautiful piece of work, representing
nearly two years—Sundays included—of
single-handed slavery. The hard, solid
slate required no timber, except just at the
entrance, so the top of the tunnel was
neatly arched ; and the dip of the strata
exactly favored the deep, narrow drain
along the centre of the floor. Sawn
sleepers, a yard apart, carried clean, level
truck-rails, also of sawmill stuff, with a
ten-inch foot-plank between. There was
no drip from the slate, but a torrent of
water ran continuously from the old
workings at the upper end.
Fred, on completing the tunnel, had
spent a few weeks in trucking out and
“tomming” off many tons of dirt from the
old drives in No. 309 ; and during that
time his blonde hair had turned ashen
grey. But he kept his business to him-
self ; so that no one knew exactly the pro-
cess of thought which led him to cut his
own throat, about midway along the
tunnel which had thus hag-ridden him to
death.
When his body was found, a week
afterwards, his affairs were looked into.
The gold-yield of the dirt he had tapped
was far below tucker-standard ; he had
no money, was as deep in debt as he
could get, and had been living solely on
rice for some months.
ALF VINCENT 1903
“Shall I go for a win this time, sir?"
“No, my boy, I cant afford it.”
All this had taken place while I was
away from the diggings. When I re-
turned, six or seven years after Fred had
handed in his resignation, the tunnel was
as perfect as at first, though the entrance
had become draped, and almost con-
cealed, by bracken and scrub. Naturally
enough, the locality was haunted.
Near the outlet stood Harris’s store,
established three years after Fred’s death,
to cater for a shoal of diggers who had
rushed some fairly good ground close by.
At the time of my return, Harris was the
only completely respectable man on the
diggings—that is to say, the only man of
probity and property. Yorkey, of the
“Royal,” was as well off in a worldly
sense, while Fat Hen and Dang Li, con-
verts of many years’ date, were as rich
in grace ; but Harris enjoyed both kinds
of blessing, and was thus qualified to pre-
side over the church which I joined on my
arrival.
Months passed. A few weeks before I
finally left the .diggings. Brother Harris
had a visitation of bad health. He looked
tired, and kept his bed most of the day,
though this never once prevented his
attendance at Sunday services or week-
night meetings. Indeed, his unwearied
fervor put to shame every member of the
church except Fat Hen and Dang Li.
As a queer corollary to their faith, all
three believed the tunnel to be well and
truly haunted. When I happened to
mention the subject to them, one Sunday
morning, they all earnestly averred the
truth of the popular report, and insisted
that the tunnel was no safe place at any.
time, whilst to enter it after nightfall
would be simply to court death in some
horrible form. Brother Harris had
never actually seen any apparition, but he
had heard shrieks and groans in the
tunnel, as well as the rattling of ghostly
wheels upon rails which had certainly
carried no earthly truck for more than
six years. But the two Orientals, in
closer touch with the Beyond, had not
only heard the sounds repeatedly and un-
mistakably, but had seen a form too
ghastly for description in pidgin English,
"HOP" 1903
NEW MAN—BOUND TO COME.
once at the outlet of the tunnel, and once
at the mouth of the shaft of No. 309.
Now, I had always been a believer in
the supernatural, and here seemed an
opportunity for verification or refutation
of my opinion. So, toward midnight—
four or five hours after the conversation
just referred to—l secretly sought the
tunnel. I had been through it several
times, in daylight, with a candle, but had
then thought of nothing beyond poor
Fred’s wasted work and extinguished
hopes. Now, however, all conditions
seemed conducive to spectral manifesta-
tions, the night being still and starless,
and my own spiritual apprehension alert,
expectant, and standing (so to speak) on
the qui vive.
After groping my way through the
rugged vegetation which masked the en-
trance, I walked silently and warily along
the foot-plank, hearing only the faint
gurgle of the stream beneath, and seeing
absolutely nothing in the intense, pitchy
darkness. After going about a hundred
yards I sat down on one of the rails with
my back against the wall, and lit my pipe,
I tried to cultivate a weird expectancy
by concentrating my mind upon the tragic
fate of the man I had once known so
intimately; but, in spite of myself, the
soothing solitude of the place had its
effect, and I resumed the composition of
a half-finished love-song.
Suddenly the heavy silence was cloven
by a shrill, despairing wail, more eerie
and frightful than anything I had ealeu-
lated upon. And scarcely had the
reverberations died away when a
mnnS ™ f a f? msm g groans filled the
tunnel. Then all was still again. Whilst
laboring to convince myself that I had
actually heard those sounds, there fell on
my ears the unmistakable rattle of a
truck—-not by any means the lively clatter
and whirr of secular wheels, but the ghost
of a sound, given forth by a ghostly im-
plement. I felt myself becoming de-
moralised. The shriek and the groans
had seemed to emanate from nowhere in
particular, but I made it my business to
locate the truck, having no desire to block
its passage. My apprehension was
realised; the infernal Thing was ap-
proaching from the outlet, and my retreat
was cut off. I therefore retired towards
the shaft, pausing now and then to listen
It was after me, right enough, and coming
closer. I have often strayed inadvert-
ently into places where I had no business
to be, and where I wasn’t wanted; but
the sense of intrusion and the superfluous
feeling never smote me so convincingly as
at that moment. So, steering myself with
fingertips touching the walls, I fled
through the Egyptian darkness, wondering
what would take place when the end of
the tunnel arrested my stampede.
But this suspense was cut short by a new
horror. I stubbed the toe of my boot
against something which sounded like a
coffin ; and the ensuing fall was checked
by my face and hands coming in con-
tact with some rounded object, smooth,
cold, and clammy. One moment of hasty
and desperate groping showed the tunnel
to be barricaded with coffins and corpses.
But the gruesome vehicle was at my heels
in the black solitude —probably bringing
in another supply—and without hesitation
I resolved to scale or force the barricade
of inoffensive deaders rather than face an
unhallowed Energy capable of translating
itself into foot-pounds. There was a space
between the top of the barricade and the
arch of the roof; and, by stepping on a
slightly yielding but inelastic object, I
wriggled into this aperture. I remember
tearing my Sunday clothes on the rough
slate above ; and I also remember that the
smell of the collection (nothing is farther
from my mind than flippancy) reminded
me of dried ling, multiplied by ancient
cheese, and reinforced by an effluvium of
smoked bacon. However, my feet had
scarcely cleared the face of the barricade
when my head bumped against the end
of a coffin, blocking the already in-
sufficient passage.
Nearer and nearer rumbled the
phantom truck, till I heard it hit one of
the coffins. Then a match was struck;
and, glancing past my own feet, I saw
Brother Harris standing behind a truck-
load of groceries in bulk. The match was
hastily blown out after its first flash, but
that glint of light showed me the cases of
o Continued foot of next page)


wh?n!’ mats s V gar > sides °[ bacon, etc.,
ta K m y OWn disturbed imagination had
n as mortuary properties.
firmhl 116 u®’. intense darkness I heard
stack L arns unload his truck and
Then u tS car S° against the barricade,
in th-w Ut i tere<i a iong > Quivering shriek
few l S u? yan i an guage, followed by a
the tnnrf groans ’ and returned down
tricated r!u Wlt £ hls J em P t y carriage. I ex-
tu myself and followed the sound.
stonJS 18 ® nded at the outlet ; here he
fuiS 6 ? ? e truck and went °ut. I
he wed > hut had to retreat as
e-entered, carrying something. This
I l kree or four times before
a mon „ th ar f the tunnel - Then, lying
in sunnr C J erns ’ 1 beard him talking
iustam vp S rf d i° neS t 0 his wife ’ w bo had
Whatever t wit b something from the store.
then fh! t W I S ’ he took il t 0 the tru ck ;
in the h miH°- wP r f’ scarcel y discernible
the midnight gloom, disappeared to-
gether. In a few minutes they returned,
loaded to their capacity, Harris carried
the two burdens in succession to the truck,
meanwhile grumbling at his wife for her
superstitious fear of the tunnel. Presently
the awful wail of a lost soul, followed by
a few appalling groans, indicated that the
vehicle was again under way, whereupon
the woman raced homeward for dear life,
whilst I rose from ambush and went my
way.
A heavy fall of rain during the fore-
noon had partly flooded the most direct
route to the hut, so I made a detour which
took me past the deserted shaft on No.
309. Approaching this old familiar spot
I could have sworn to hearing the faint
creak of a windlass, though the winding-
barrel, with its handles, had been taken
out of the uprights many years before. I
had just been fooled by one ..deception ;
but this manifestation seemed to be
worth inquiring into —bearing in mind
that some basis of truth generally under-
lies a fraud.
As my clothes were dark-colored, I
avoided all pipeclay background; and,
taking advantage of the wild growth of
ferns and shrubs, made my way to within
twelve feet of the shaft. The landing-
brace was about five feet high, and there,
faintly but definitely silhouetted against
the sky, appeared a windlass-barrel set in
the old slots, and the figure of a ghost on
its hands and knees. Just then a barely
audible wail from the bowels of the earth
signified that Brother Harris was still on
the job. Presently the kneeling apparition
spoke down the shaft in a suppressed
tone.
“Dang Li! Muck-a-hi-lo? Sen-ling-yan-
lot-fli-tum-tum-sling ? ”
More faintly came the reply from be-
low. “Turn - turn - sling - ven - dam - toe.
Limp-ho-yong! ”
The kneeling spook “ho-yanged” with
alacrity, and got to work at the windlass.
In a couple of minutes it landed a load,
and sent down the rope again. Then it
carried the consignment from the brace,
placed the lot within arm’s-length of my
lair, and resumed its post. While the
next load was coming up I stealthily ex-
plored my own vicinity and found about
a ton of -merchandise, similar in character
to that which Brother Harris was stack-
ing in the tunnel.
After a few more loads had been
landed, Fat Hen hoisted his fellow-convert
to the surface. In another minute they
had restored the desolate aspect of the
landing-brace by removing the windlass-
barrel, rope and all; this done, they
loaded their bamboos and ambled home-
ward through the darkness. Looking
over the salvage that remained, I con-
cluded that it would take at least two
hours to shift the lot.
A week later, Brother Harris went to
Melbourne and filed his schedule. The-
little trouble had been so judiciously
arranged in the first place that it was put
through speedily and safely ; but by the
time his certificate was issued the good
man found his insolvency to be more
genuine than he had counted upon. In
fact, he had to make a fresh start on a
hawker’s licence, while the discreet
Asiatics bought his premises for a mere
trifle, and kept the business going. Such
is life. [1905.]
A JOURNALIST AND TWO BEARS
By
JAMES
EDMOND
IT has been observed by some philoso-
pher in the heavyweight division that
for every effect there is a cause, and
if we only seek for it with sufficient
energy it will be found. The fearsome
row that happened one night out in St.
Kilda had two causes. One was the un-
successful attempt of William Johnson to
dissolve Parliament; the other was the
unfeeling conduct of the Hon. Samuel
Bloggs, M.L.C., in seizing the boa-
constrictor for back rent.
Johnson was, in his time, almost the
most celebrated pressman in Australia.
He was a brilliant man, and he had been
drunk on every paper of importance in
every Australian city. He was so brilliant
when sober that even the editor in whose
premises he had had his most picturesque
and devastating drunk would be found,
a couple of years later, holding up a
large bowl-like ear that Johnson might
pour into it a plausible assurance that he
was a changed inhabitant, that the flow-
ing bottle had lost all attractions for him,
and that he had learned to shudder at the
very mention of lager beer. There was
only one editor who never gave Johnson
a second hearing, and as Johnson had
shoved his head through the window this
wasn’t remarkable.
It was a hot and dreadful day when
Johnson tried to dissolve Parliament. He
was in the press gallery of the Upper
House, making a hieroglyphic now and
then and dozing between times, and his
insobriety was considerable. Things were
ineffably dreary. The Hon. Bildad Smith
was pouring obscurity on the provisions
of the Bill for Eradicating Surplus Popu-
lation, and the House longed to get away
and be at rest. The Bill for Eradicating
Surplus Population died a natural death
about 4 p.m. Someone suggested the
second reading of the Bill for the En-
couragement of Large Estates. Someone
, > whp felt too exhausted to live any
onger, proposed that the House should
cave off for the day, and the words fell
imly on the ear of Johnson in the press
gallery, like the sound of running waters
m a dry land, and made him leap to his
. , In his fear lest the motion should
e lost he poured his notes, and his pencil,
f nd an ° ther pressman’s hat on the bald
, °L. a member sitting below, and
, lT f, , s arms like a tree in a gale,
and spoke:
I proposh,” he said thickly, “that thish
nouse adjournsh for ever. Proposh that
P evei again. Mister Shpeaker”
it „ S EoV, e appealingly—“why not chuck
in threw up his hands to
l. r *if e chucking process. “You
fncciTk ure a lot of uselessh old
usn. You knowsh yer no good—no
good ’tall. You knowsh yer no
dashed goodsh. Why not” —he
spoke persuasively—“why not
chuck it right upsh?” He threw
up his hands again to show how
high he wanted it chucked and
upset an inkpot, which drained
gently on to a member below.
“Lesh be honesht an’ close the
whole show, and go out peace-
ably an’ have drinksh, an’ give
it up as a bad jobsh, an’ ”
An avalanche fell on Johnson.
There was a rush of infuriated
dignitaries up the stairs. There
was a rush down the stairs of
Johnson with his hat over his
eye and his arms held by two
friendly journalists. The digni-
taries coming up the stairs
were elderly and short-winded, but
bitterly hostile. The pressmen coming
down the stairs with Johnson were young,
and they were taking three steps at a
bound —they couldn’t help themselves
because Johnson had lost his footing at
the top step, and the dead weight of his
tall figure was dragging them along with
him. They didn’t want to trample on
NORMAN LINDSAY 1906
“German Charlie tells me them strangers are on good gold."
“ Don't yer b'ieve it. Bill. They Worn't up at the pub larst night.
the Sergeant-at-arms, or to put their feet
on the stomach of the doorkeeper, but,
once started on their errand of mercy,
they couldn’t help themselves. The
Fourth Estate was in the air when the
collision happened, and it hadn’t even
time to shout a warning or say that it
was coming. Johnson had a vague recol-
lection of being in an earthquake and of
storming a city, and then he found him-
self in the street.
“Thish,” he said dreamily, “ish great
fun.”
“It is” said the man from the evening
paper grimly. “I wish I had left it alone.
I trod on the Sergeant-at-arms coming
down, and that’ll take a lot of explain-
ing.”
“Whatsh nexht thing?” said Johnson
in a reverie.
“The next thing,” said the evening-
paper man, “is for you to get down to
your office faster than you ever ran
before, and see if you can get some
money before they hear of this row, for
you won’t get any after that. And then
you’d better take tonight’s boat for Mel-
bourne, and don’t come back here for
two years. No paper in this town will
want you till then, and here’s a policeman
streaming after you already.”
Johnson ran. Looking back as he
turned the corner he saw the legislators
pouring out like bees and gesticulating
wildly on the pavement.
That night a muffled individual who
was comparatively sober, but not quite
sober enough to know if he were wanted
for a capital offence or not, carefully
avoided the gangway of the steamer and
climbed on to the steerage end by a
rope. He gave his name as something
like “Whish” or “Whoop,” and he hid
himself behind a pile of fruit-cases till
the vessel sailed,
IN a general way Johnson’s intervals
1 of sobriety lasted six months, and his
semi-annual jag lasted a fortnight.
Therefore there were thirteen months in
his year. The misfortune in this case
was that the jag had been interrupted
in its third day, and when the retreating
forces of Johnson reached Melbourne in
disorder there were still, in the ordinary
course of events, nine days of the dis-
turbance to run. He had no plans for
taking up the thread of his interrupted
bust; he just took it up, or it took
itself up. The proceeding was assisted
by many friends who had heard of his
recent doings and thought they called for
recognition.
There was so much' recognition that
the end of the first day, was a mist with
a huge beer-pot looming through it and
a gas-light making a radiance on the pot.
Johnson slept somewhere that night—at
least he found himself in an hotel in
the morning. The second day was a fog
with a whisky-bottle looming through
it. The second evening was a thick fog,
through which a gigantic hand —which
Johnson surmised was his own hand —
could be seen reaching out for refresh-
ments. Then he was vaguely aware that
oblivion came upon him, but that he
didn’t fall down; he only set out to
walk somewhere,
WHEN he awoke he was looking at a
bear. It was very early on a beautiful
summer morning, and Melbourne was
still asleep. Johnson found himself lean-
ing against a lamp-post in Bourke-street,
but he was moderately sober, from which
fact he assumed that he had been walking
most of the night. He studied the bear
thoughtfully, and the bear returned the
compliment.
“This,” said the pressman in a dis-
passionate tone, “must be a jim-jam.”
The bear never moved, and Johnson
delivered an address to it.
“You are,” he said, “the firsht bear
jim-jam I’ve seen. I s’pose you’re a jim-
jam. If you are, you’ll preshently be-
come a snake or something. If you keep
on being a bear, then s’pose you musht
be a bear. You sheem to keep on be-
ing a bear, It’sh most remarkable.”
Something wet licked Johnson’s ear
from behind. He leaped two feet into
the air, and turned round to find another
bear. This time he was angry, and spoke
severely.
“Look here, are you a bear or are you
not? If you don’t explain inside 60
seconds I’ll knock your head off,”
“Don’t for heaven’s sake —don’t make
that row, Bill,” said a fretful voice ; “and
leave my property alone.”
Again Johnson leaped into the air.
The voice was familiar, but it seemed to
come from nowhere, and for a second or
two he ascribed it to one of the animals.
Then he became aware that he had fallen
on a family of three. A small, dis-
couraged-looking man was sitting on the
edge of the pavement with his feet in
the gutter. He had his hat drawn down
over his eyes and his coat-collar dragged
up about his ears, and his hands were
buried in his pockets. It was Silver, spas-
modic pressman —mostly d£ the freelance
variety —unsaleable pofet, occasional
showman, theatrical manager and lec-
turer, an irregular drinker and a
(Continued overleaf.)


Bohemian of shifts and expedients. Also,
an old friend.
“Leave ’em alone,” he said gloomily.
“I hate people fooling with my bears.”
Johnson shook Silver’s hand cordially
when he had dragged it out of his pocket,
and then he also sat down on the edge
of the pavement with his feet in the
gutter. The junior bear came and licked
his ear again.
“What’s up?” Johnson asked briefly.
“Have you got a watch on you?
What’s the time?” demanded the owner
of the bears.
Johnson felt for his watch, but it was
gone. He didn’t remember where it had
gone to.
“It doesn’t matter,” said the gloomy
little man, sinking deeper into his coat.
“I only wanted to know how long it was
till the pawnshops opened so that I
could put the zoological garden up the
spout. Have you got half-a-crown?”
Johnson again searched himself, and
found nothing.
“You’re a hopeful sort of fellow to
meet, I must say,” almost wailed the
small man.
“But what does it all mean?” shouted
Johnson. “Where d’ye come from last?
What are you wailing about —one would
think you were the book of Jeremiah?
And why are you sitting here at four in
the morning with two wild animals?
What’s it all about?”
“Oh, that’s easy enough. The ‘Agegus’
said it didn’t want me any more, so I
thought I’d take a turn at lecturing. I
got Smith for my agent—you know
Smith ; he drinks —and we went round
the small towns, where I delivered an
eloquent address on ‘The Socialistic Ten-
dencies of the Period’ to an average audi-
ence of ten.”
“I met a man who’d heard it,” said
Johnson, “He said it was terrible.”
“We had to throw it up after the fifth
lecture. Then we met Miss Billy Mont-
morency’s dramatic company, and I be-
came manager, while Smith was prin-
cipal tragedian. They were playing the
kind of drama which makes you wish
you were dead, and they had one set of
scenery.”
“I’ve heard of Miss Billy,” commented
Johnson. “She’s an ingenue of 45 with
her hair down.”
“Well, it was while we were travelling
with her that we struck a patch of real
luck at last. Smith got a chance to buy
a lot of goods cheap—two dancing bears,
and a boxing kangaroo, and a stuffed
boa-constrictor. We came back to Mel-
bourne and set up a show in this shop
here.”
He jerked his thumb over his shoulder,
and Johnson, following the motion,
noticed a small closed shop covered with
bills to the effect that Smith and Silver’s
unrivalled show was within.
“It lasted ten days. We coined money.
I altered my lecture about ‘The Socialistic
Tendencies of the Period,’ to make it fit
in with the bears, and it took wonderfully.
But Smith wasn ? t sober once the whole
ten days. He had the biggest interest in
the show, and the way he went on was
terrible. The bears weren’t sober either.
The last two days the boxing kangaroo
wasn’t sober. Smith tried to pour beer
into the stuffed boa-constrictor. Last of
all he backed a horse with the rent and
lost. The landlord cleared us out last
night. 1 He took the boa-constrictor for
rent. Smith disappeared round the corner
with the kangaroo, and I and the bears
hid behind the ash-barrel in the backyard
most of the night for fear the police
would take away my only asset. We had
just come out for a whiff of fresh air
when you came along. The ash-barrel
smelt something horrible.”
Johnson rose like a man inspired,
“Old man, we’ll rebuild our fortunes.
We’ll establish a new firm. I know
pub where my credit’s good for one drin?
each—we mustn’t have more than one
and some sandwiches. I know a kind'
hearted greengrocer who wouldn’t see
fellow-bear go hungry while he had I
pound of stock in the shop. We’ll make
our livestock perform in the streets
every copper in Melbourne knows me ’
and they won’t move me on. I’ll deliver
a brief, impassioned address on bears-
you can’t lecture worth a cent— while
you make the livestock dance and take
round the hat. We’ll explain afterwards
that we did it for a wager of 10,000
dollars with some fool American. There’s
any number of them. I know an Ameri-
can here who sells pills for removing
large feet; he’ll say he made the bet to
advertise his pills. I’ll get £5 from B
Sloman for the right to paste a bill on
the big bear about his unrivalled ready-
made pants at 3s. 6d. We’ll shake things
up, Silver. Whoop!”
“Whoop! ” said the depressed man in a
whisper,
| N later years, when Silver had been
* found again after his disappearance, and
when Johnson pondered on the mys-
terious vanishment of wild animals, their
accounts of the one stormy day of their
partnership used to differ. I have heard
both accounts, and it seems to me the
root cause of the trouble was Johnson’s
unfinished jag. As already mentioned,
that pressman’s semi-annual drunk was
wound up for a fortnight, and as only
seven days had expired, he was a wholly
unreliable person, and not to be trusted
with either money or beer. Silver had no
fixed drinking hours or days—he hadn’t
even a regular drinking year—but he was
a small weak man, and liable to be led
astray by anybody at any time. They
had both had a bad night, and it was fol-
lowed by a hot, exciting day, and things
happened.
At first all went well. The one drink
and the breakfast of sandwiches
materialised. The bear food was pro-
cured on credit.
B. Sloman was interviewed as soon as
his shop opened, and though he would
only part with three pounds, and even
then insisted on having his cheap pants
advertised on the large bear and his four-
and-sixpenny hat on the small one, still
he put up his money manfully. It was
the wild, hilarious boom-time, when Mel-
bourne was gay and riotous and allowed
things to be done that it wouldn’t dream
of nowadays. The only serious inter-
ference that the police put up was about
noon, when they ordered B. Sloman’s
advertisement to be washed off the bears
under pain of prosecution for cruelty to
animals. It was washed off accordingly
at a street tap, and the firm of Johnson
and Silver remarked to itself that anyhow
Sloman had paid in advance and had got
his money’s 1 worth. The bears danced
laboriously and badly, but Johnsons
address was a great success, and the
takings were respectable. And in the
afternoon, when profits began to fall on,
the little bear put up a sudden, mag-
nificent scrap with a large dog, which
raised his popularity to fever-heat.
The American who sold the pills which
cured large feet was communicated with
per telephone (from an hotel bar) about
11 o’clock, and when he got the hang 01
the situation he took hold of an evening-
paper reporter and explained that the
eccentric conduct of the two most
and brilliant pressmen in Australia, wn
were going round Melbourne with &
couple of bears, did not arise from m-
toxication or vagrancy on their part, bu
was done on the strength of a wager o
£2OOO made with the proprietors of Hoot'
docker’s pills, which were without a riva
in either hemisphere, as could be see
by a reference to the printed testimonial •
He added that Hoofdocker’s spem
£lOO,OOO a year in eccentric advertising
of this character, in addition to taking UP
a larger space in the newspapers than an.
other firm in the trade. Johnson, w
didn’t want his character as a journal!
to go utterly to pieces, read the paragrap
in his tenth or twelfth hotel, and it ma
him feel better, though he said to nim
self that Hoofdocker seemed to be won;'
ing the business for all it was wou
Also, that grasping person insisted
having his advertisement pasted on J
bears —which caused some ill-feeling, D
nothing to speak of. About 4 o’clo ’
after he had got rid of HoofdocK. >
Johnson dropped into his 17th hotel
a drink. He didn’t remember coming ° u ’
and he doesn’t remember it to this day-
T T appeared to be after an inimitably
1 interval that he heard voices. One
them seemed to be delivering a lecture
bears—a lecture which had grown
familiar with repetition that it had becom
a weariness.
Other voices were raised in coa lffj
mirthful aspersion. Johnson realised alt®
THE "WREAK OF THE BRUNKENCRUNCERCROB."
LIONEL LINDSAY and H. TATE 1910
nrHE brundub thunder snarched above I
The swisslembifferous sea
While drimbled Mugfrubs boofkutunked I
And Swunklers crunked in glee.
It was the Brunkencrungercrob
That shoddled in the blast,
The Mugfrubs fierce had blocked the screw I
And swonglecranked the mast.
The flearded few that held the deck
Were streeleweeled with fright,
For oh, the frightful Swankterbowsh
Was skirpling through the night.
They saw the Unkterspronks at play— a
Their souls in horror sunk.
The Unkterspronks, the Swankterbowsh, I
The Hootlejumptibunk.
And as the stykled ship went down
The Swankterbowsh drew nigh
And morgled them by twos and threes —
A glumbrious way to die.
He slorpaljised the lot! And then
The Hootlejumptibunk
Came at him, with a sterkrious yell,
And hortched him with a crunk.
The brundub thunder snarched above
The swisslembifferous sea
While drimbled Mugfrubs boofkutunked
And Swunklers crunked in glee.
H. TATE.


a while that the first voice was his own.
He was in a threepenny bar somewhere,
and was applauding his own remarks with
a pewter-pot on the counter while he
harangued an increasing crowd of cus-
tomers. The two bears roosted m a
serious frame of mind on a form, and an
affable but irreverent mob was offering
them biscuits, cheese, beer and sundries.
T3iey seemed to be taking everything
that was going.
The clock said it was 9 p.m.—that left
nearly five hours unaccounted for. John-
son sidled to the door without interrupt-
ing his discourse and glanced out. He
knew the locality—it was down by St.
Kilda. That meant that several miles
of macadamised road were unaccounted
for Silver—well, apparently, he was un-
accounted for; at least, he was nowhere
to be seen. Johnson felt in his pockets
and realised about a pound’s worth of
silver coin. Apparently most of the day’s
takings and the bulk of the money which
B. Sloman had spent in advertising on
the bears had gone somewhere —but
where? Johnson felt anxious and lonely.
The crowd reminded Johnson rather
crossly that it was waiting.
Johnson asked what on earth it was
waiting for.
The explanation, given with various
degrees of anger, was not very lucid, but
frbm it the showman concluded that he
was in something of a difficulty. Ap-
parently the address which he had been
giving when he came to himself had pur-
ported to be the introduction to a mar-
vellous performance by the animals. The
performance was to be absolutely unique.
He had punctuated his sentence by smit-
ing the counter with the pot, and the pot
was a ruin. The landlord made no dis-
guise of the fact that unless a high-class
performance was forthcoming the damage
done to the pot would require a great
deal of explanation.
Johnson rose to the occasion as best
he could, and sternly ordered the smaller
bear to dance. The smaller bear only
prospected with one paw for a flea on
its stomach and treated its temporary
owner as if he were dead. He ordered
the large bear to dance. It shambled
over to the counter and held up its nose
for a biscuit. Somebody poured beer over
its nose and it snorted. Apparently,
though they would dance to please
■Silver, they took no stock in strangers,
and refused to recognise Johnson. The
landlord intimated that he expected
ample cash satisfaction for the battered
po't. One man said he would fight John-
son if that would do any good.
By a blessed dispensation of Provi-
dence there is, in almost every assemblage,
a peacemaker. There was one on this
occasion a tall young man with a
striped collar. He winked eloquently at
the crowd when Johnson wasn’t looking,
and the crowd became still and awaited
developments. He urged that the ani-
mals were probably tired and not quite at
neir best. He recommended peace and
rotherly love. Finally he shouted for
onnson, and said that if that gentleman
f ,ould B lve them the speech all over again
u, e^ij VV u cad things square and there
u d ° e n ? And while John-
n was still consuming the liquor the
I i“" g man in the striped collar gently
muj £ .k £ar into the middle of the
oaw ’ . aced it towards Melbourne and
mw O' a h( r ar ty kick. The small bear
off t a surprise and shambled
on towards the city. Then the tall young
25J surreptitiously led out the large
Sm ’ towards Gippsland and
bottu U T hard on the tail with an empty
S e H 11 uttered a kind of “wuff!” and
DeaSLT f °s the moun tains. Then the
laughter UP * ag ° nieS ° f
The crowd inside had covered the re-
treat of the livestock with another drink,
and Johnson was again going strong. His
lecture on bears generally was an im-
passioned piece of oratory equal to
Cicero’s denunciation of Catiline or the
impeachment of Warren Hastings. His
long arms cleared a wide space round
him as he gesticulated fiercely with the
beer-pot till it was worn out. It was
10 o’clock when he reached his perora-
tion :
“And, finally—hie—gentlemen, thesh
faithful, intelligent and devoted”
He reached out his hand as he spoke
and patted the empty air where the larger
devoted animal had been. Then he
glared. The guffaw that went up was like
the roar of a cataract. The peacemaker
outside doubled up again with mirth.
“Them faithful animals of yours,” said
the landlord briefly, “went out of the
door half an.hour ago.”
“I heard someone screaming ‘Murder! ’
down the road,” said the peacemaker be-
tween his paroxysms. “J expect they’re
killing somebody.”
I OKNSON expressed his opinion of
the company in one glittering curse,
threw his beer-pot into the middle of next
century and ran through the doorway. The
moon was shining and the lamps were
alight, but neither to right nor left did
the illumination show a black object
shambling up the road or down. It was
late and lone and silent. The peace-
RUBY LINDSAY 1911
THE NURSERY GOVERNESS: "When Moses struck the rock what
happened ?”
KITTIE (A MINING-COMPANY PROMOTER’S DAUGHTER) : “I suppose
he floated it."
maker, still struggling with his stupendous
joke, intimated that the cries of “Murder! ”
had come from “that way”—and pointed
vaguely towards Gippsland and Maori-
land and the territories of the Chilian
Republic.
Then Johnson uttered an arrangement
of ground and lofty swearing that is re-
membered thereabouts to this day, and
the fists at the end of his long arms
smote the peacemaker on the waistbelt.
The peacemaker doubled up with a yelp
and flew backwards.
The journalist was a man of action
when he started. He ran like a hare to
the next corner and looked up and down
the long roads that lay white and silent
in the moonlight. There was no bear.
He turned to the left and ran to the
next corner. Very long and white and
straight are the highways thereabouts,
and on a clear night things can be seen
very far off. Still no bear.
The idea that his animals might have
reverted to a wild state and be doing all
manner of damage worried him. Besides,
it seemed like larceny as a bailee. He ran
two more blocks and looked up and down
more long white roads, all to no purpose.
Finally, in his anxiety, he roused up a
villa residence and asked if any bears
had been seen thereabouts that evening.
A terrified girl, who evidently regarded
him as a dangerous lunatic and a person
to be humored, assured him that though
no bears had called an elephant had just
passed, and she pointed out the road it
had taken and urged him to pursue it at
once. She said that if he ran fast he
couldn’t fail to overtake it. Then she shut
the door gently and Johnson heard her
having hysterics inside. He went out
and closed the gate and tore his hair.
He met a policeman and asked if he
had seen any bears. The officer was an
unusually small one. He considered
Johnson and measured him with his eye.
He realised that the inquirer was a tall,
sinewy man who looked excited and
might be troublesome if roused. So he
replied civilly that all bears found wan-
dering around loose were taken to the
police-station. He said that some days
there were as many as a dozen there at
one time, and suggested that he and
Johnson should go along together and
sort out Johnson’s bears from the collec-
tion. As he said it his hand took an
insidious hold on the other man’s sleeve.
Johnson shook him off and ran. He
had no time to waste when thirty
pounds’ worth of lost bear was
getting more lost every moment,
and people were possibly being eaten up
in all directions. And he wasn’t taking
any chances of going to police-stations
and being locked up as a lunatic by some
fatuous constable and having the story
in the papers next morning. He was
sobered by much running, and he ad-
mitted, as he leaned against a tree to get
his second wind, that he had made enough
history during the last few days.
He went into an hotel just before clos-
ing time and braced himself up with two
whiskies. Also, he bought a flask to keep
him up during the night that was ahead
of him. It was a lonely hotel, and when
he asked if any bears had been seen
thereabouts the girl served him with fear
and trembling.
In a house down a lonesome road in
Elsternwick he heard a disturbance which
sounded hopeful. He knocked firmly on
the door and asked for his bears. Water
was poured on him from a top window.
He emptied the flask after that and
became again, for a time, full of Dutch
courage. He raged through Elsternwick,
Balaclava and adjacent suburbs, and
wherever he saw a light he knocked up
the inhabitants and asked for his
menagerie. Mostly he got a civil response,
but at one house water was again poured
over him from a balcony, and Johnson
told the inhabitants that this sort of thing
was liable to become monotonous. His
blood was up, and he demanded an
apology. None being forthcoming, he
broke the bow window with a large clod
of earth. A dog came round the corner
of the house and went for him, but he
knocked it out in one round and threw
it over the tank.
By 1 a.m. the police of four suburbs
were scouring the highways and byways
in search of a lengthy monomaniac about
whom conflicting stories were afloat. The
only reason why they didn’t find him
was that Johnson had left the roads by
this time and was devoting himself to a
vigorous search of all the back gardens
he could get into.
About 2 a.m, he got back by accident
to the St. Kilda-road and gave it up. He
was tired beyond all expression, he was
unspeakably dry and the earth had ap-
parently opened up and swallowed his
two animals. He sat down on the edge
of the pavement and told the universe
that he declined to travel any further.
The moon set. Johnson decided that
some belated vegetable cart would be
along soon from Brighton and he would
negotiate a lift. If no vegetable cart
came he would wait for the first tram.
Then he slept.
A bear passed him in his dreams, but
he heeded not.
About four he was awakened by the
approach of something that looked like
a black omnibus, and he hailed it. The
driver said that for a shilling he could
get in lengthwise by the back door, the
same way as the stiff’un did, and he
would be taken to Melbourne. Johnson
then realised that he had hailed a belated
hearse, but by that time all things seemed
alike, and he got in. The vehicle dropped
him in Bourke-street, almost opposite
the signboard of Smith and Silver’s un-
rivalled show, and Johnson said to him-
self that this coincidence was the last
straw.
The bears were never accounted for,
and Silver, when he turned up again,
accused Johnson of stealing the property,
and the old friendship went to pieces.
Also, Silver sued Johnson for his bears,
but about this stage of the proceedings
Smith, who quitted the narrative when
he disappeared round the corner with
the boxing kangaroo, made his re-entry
and sued Silver for his share of the bears
and for an account of the day’s takings.,
Silver sued him in return for half the
boxing kangaroo, which Smith had sold
to a fourpenny restaurant for soup, and
a side-issue arose about the legality of
the seizure of the stuffed serpent. John-
son, who hated publicity in his lucid
moments, compromised with Silver for
10s., but the other cases went on
indefinitely, [1906.]
HARRY PEARCE.
By David Campbell.
*at be side the red stock route
chewe d a blade of bitter grass
n saw m mirage on the plain
bullock wagon pass.
Uld Harry P earC e was with his team.
he flles ar « bad,” I said to him.
J} e Baders felt his whip. It did
good to hear old Harry swear,
n in the heat of noon it seemed
, bullocks walked on air.
in the amber & ky
ey hauled the wool to Gundagai.
a' W “l k ' d “ Time a„o.s the plain,
y ° ld walking j„ the ait ,
°r years he wandered in my brain;
And now he lodges here.
« he may drive his cattle still
n TW with us has had his will.
MARRED.
By Mary Gilmore.
It’s singin’ in an’ out
An’ roun’ about the place
’N’ here an’ there, ’n’ up an’ down
’N’ feelin’ full o’ grace.
It’s rollin’ up your sleeves,
An’ whitenin’ up the hearth,
An’ scrubbin’ out the floor,
An’ sweepin’ down the path.
An’ bakin' cakes an’ tarts
An’ shinin’ up the knives.
An’ feelin' that some days
Is worth a thousand lives.
It’s watchin’ out the door,
An’ watchin’ by the gate,
An’ watchin’ down the road
Because it’s gettin’ late.
An’ feelin’ anxious like
For fear there’s somethin’ wrong.
An’ wond’rin’ if he’s kep*,
An’ why he takes so long.
It’s cornin’ back, inside,
An’ sittin’ down a spell,
To sorter make-believe
You’re thinkin’ things is well.
An’ gettin’ up again,
An* wand’rin’ in an’ out
An’ feelin’ wistful like.
Not thinkin’ what about.
An’ flushin’ all at once
An’ smilin’ just so sweet.
An’ bein’ real proud.
The house is lookin' neat.
An’ feelin’ awful glad
Like them that watched Silo’m
An’ all o’ this because
My man is cornin’ home.


THE PLAY
(From “The Sentimental Bloke”)
By C. J. Dennis.
“Wot’s in a name?” she ses . . . An’ then
she sighs,
An’ clasps ’er little ’ands, an’ rolls ’er eyes.
"A rose,” she ses, “be any other name
Would smell the same.
Oh, w’erefore art you Romeo, young sir?
Chuck yer ole pot, an’ change yer
monicker!”
Doreen an’ me, we bin to see a show 1 —
The swell two-dollar touch. Bong-tong,
yeh know.
A chair apiece, wif velvit on the seat;
A slap-up treat.
The drarmer’s writ be Shakspeare, years
ago.
About a barmy goat called Romeo,
“Lady, be yonder moon I swear!” ses ’e.
An’ then ’e climbs up on the balkiney;
An’ there they smooge a treat, wif pretty
words.
Like two love-birds.
I nudge Doreen. She whispers, “Ain’t it
grand!”
’Er eyes is shinin’, an’ I squeeze ’er ’and.
“Wot’s in a name?” she ses. ’Struth, I
dunno.
Billo is jist as good as Romeo.
She may be Juli-er or Juli-et —
’E loves ’er yet.
If she’s the tart ’e wants, then she’s ’ia
queen,
Names never count . . . But, ar, I like
“Doreen!”
A sweeter, dearer sound I never card;
Ther’s music ’angs around that little word.
Doreen! . • . But wot was this I starts to say
About the play?
I’m off me beat. But when a bloke’s in
love
Ts thorts turns ’er way, like a ’omin’ dove.
This Romeo, ’e’s lurkin’ wif a crew—
A dead tough crowd o’ crooks —called
Montague.
Ts diner’s push—wot’s nicknamed Capu-
let—
They ’as ’em set.
Fair narks they are, jist like them back-
street clicks,
Ixcep’ they fights wif skewers ’stid o
bricks.
Wot’s in a name? Wot’s in a string o’
words?
They scraps in ole Verona wif the’r
swords,
An’ never give a bloke a stray dog’s
chance,
An’ that’s Romance.
But when they deals it out wif bricks an’
boots
In Little Lon., they’re low, degraded
broots.
Wot’s jist plain stoush wif us, right ’ere,
today,
Is “valler” if yer fur enough away.
Some time, some writer bloke will do the
trick
Wif Ginger Mick,
Of Spadger’s Lane, ’ETI be a Romeo,
When ’e’s bin dead five ’undred years or so.
Fair Juli-et, she gives ’er boy the tip.
Ses she: “Don’t sling that crowd of mine
no lip;
An’, if you run agin a Capulet,
Jist do a get.”
’E swears ’e’s done wif lash; ’e’ll chuck it
clean.
(Same as I done when I first met Doreen.)
They smooge some more at that. Ar,
strike me blue!
It gimme Joes to sit an’ watch them two.
’E’d break away an’ start to say good-bye,
An’ then she’d sigh.
“Ow, Ro-me-o!” an’ git a strangle-holt,
An’ ’ang around ’im like she feared ’e’d
bolt.
Nex’ day ’e Words a gorspil cove about
A secrit weddin’; an’ they plan it out.
E spouts a piece about ’ow ’e’s bewitched;
Then they git ’itched . . .
Now, ’ere’s the place where I fair git the
pip!
She’s ’is fer keeps, an’ yet ’e lets ’er slip!
Ar! But ’e makes me sick! A fair gazob!
’E’s jist the glarsey on the soulful sob,
’ETI sigh, an’ spruik, an’ ’owl a love-sick
vow
(The silly cow!)
But when ’e’s got ’er, spliced an’ on the
straight,
’E crools the pitch, an’ tries to kid it’s Fate.
Aw, Fate me foot! Instid of slopin’ soon
As ’e was wed, off on ’is ’oneymoon,
Im an’ ’is cobber, called Mick Curio,
They ’ave to go
An’ mix it wif that push o* Capulets.
They looks fer trouble; an’ it’s wot they
gets.
A tug named Tyball (cousin to the skirt)
Sprags ’em, an’ makes a start to sling off
dirt.
Nex’ minnit there’s a reel ole ding-dong
go—
*Arf round or so.
Mick Curio, ’e gits it in the neck.
“Ah, rats!” ’e ses, an’ passes in ’is check.
Quite natchrill, Romeo gits wet as ’ell.
“It’s me or you!” ’e ’owls, an’ wif a yell
Plunks Tyball through the gizzard wif ’is
sword.
’Ow I ongcored!
“Put in the boot!” I ses. "Put in the
boot!”
" ’Ush!” ses Doreen . . . “Shame!” ses
some silly coot.
Then Romeo, ’e dunno wot to do.
The cops git busy, like they allwiz do.
An* nose around, until ’e gits blue funk,
An’ does a bunk.
They wants ’is tart to wed some other guy.
“Ah, strike!” she ses. “I wisht that I
could die!”
ALF VINCENT 1912
“Give us a thrummer, blokes. Foe got a wife and ten youngsters at
’ome depending on me."
“Garni Wot are you giving us!"
“’ Struth! It’s me mother and the kids."
Now, this ’ere gorspil bloke’s a fair shrew-
’ead.
Ses ’e, “I’ll dope yeh, so they’ll think yer
dead.”
(I tips ’e was a cunnin’ sort, wot knoo
A thing or two.)
She takes ’is knock-out drops up in ’er
room;
They think she’s snuffed, an’ plant ’er in
’er tomb.
Then things gits mixed a treat an’ starts to
whirl.
’Ere’s Romeo comes back, an’ finds ’is girl
Tucked in ’er little coffing, cold an’ stiff
An’ in a jiff
’E swallers lysol, throws a fancy fit,
’Ead over turkey, an’ ’is soul ’as flit.
Then Juli-et wakes up an’ sees ’im there,
Turns on the water-works an’ tears ’er ’air,
“Dear love,” she ses, “I cannot livealonel”
An’, wif a moan.
She grabs ’is little knife, an’ ends ’er
cares.
"Peanuts or lollies!” ses a boy upstairs.
WHARFLABORERS
ROBERT BROTHERS
WHETHER wharflaborers as a class
are more lurid than other casual
workers I don’t know, but it is
my opinion that the man who
lumps cargo can hold his own against
any other. Language is not a gift, but
he can’t help himself. If you put a pad-
lock on his lips and gave his mind a bath,
he’d still think in swear-words. ' Not that
he does think. He talks, but shifting wool
and wheat doesn’t give him any exercise
in mentality. His brain acts sheep-like,
following the lead of others, and in con-
sequence the tongue-noise he puts in is an
iteration wlych is only varied in frills and
—lorer at his best
you require to sleep near a hatch on a
passenger boat the night before she leaves
port. I’ve done so on various occasions,
and it has interested me so much that last
night I switched on the light and made
a verbatim report of what I heard. Of
course, in setting it down here, I’ve left
spaces’ representing lingua incognita,
You can fill them in yourself if you know
how, only you must understand that the
real language was worse.
First you are awakened by a terrific
bumping-down of the hatch-boards, and
then comes the maddening clatter of the
winch being tested, accompanied by the
clang of iron-bars being thrown about
over your head. There is a terrible
amount of language also, but the noise
of the winch and the bars is so great that
it even drowns a wharflaborer’s stentorian
voice. Waking from one’s sleep it strikes
right into one’s nerves and lifts the roof
from your head.
A wharfla borer is so accustomed to
shouting so as to be heard above the din
of winches that he keeps it up all the time.
Immediately the hellish noise subsides, a
raucous voice demands, “Where’s my
b ”
Then it stops. It seems to remember
that there are passengers aboard. There
is a little sense of decency behind that
voice. It has probably been well brought
up —had a mother, or some good female
influence. It continued; “ blessed
’ook?”
In Heaven’s Book there must be re-
corded the noble restraint of that laborer.
I am sure St. Peter will remember that
man and pass him in. It will be recorded
that once in his lifetime he put a curb
on his tongue and left unsaid the thing
that he set out to say. I am glad I heard
it. It is the only time I’ve ever heard a
wharflaborer use a mild adjective.
“Anybody seen Bill’s ’ook?”
roared out a man with a voice like a bull
and no respect for passengers.
Then a dozen bull voices roared: “Bill’s
’ook’s lost!” And there came
a noise of spitting.
Then one voice spoke—one which will
never leave my memory—an awful voice:
“The ’s gone an’ lost his —
’ook.”
“W’y the doesn’t ’e look
after ’is ’ook?” This voice was a
commonsense sort of voice. It is the
voice of the critic that you will mostly
find in every crowd —the Red Page voice,
“Is it Bill’s ’ook wot’s well
lost?” asked a sympathetic voice.
“ silly said a weak edition
of the Red Page voice.
All the time about twenty men were
chasing round looking for Bill’s hook,
instead of working and getting the ship
away up to time. It occurred to me that
Bill had lost his hook on purpose. They
all talked at once on these occasions.
“Whose ’ook is this?”
Everybody came forward to identify it,
and then the bull voice rang out: “That’s
not Bill’s ’ook. That ’ook be-
longs to one of the s who voted for
overtime. ’E’s well asleep be-
hind the wool-bales.”
“Is this Bill’s ’ook?” from an-
other part of the hold.
Another scuttle of all the wharflaborers
to make another identification. And then
Bill spoke: “Yes, that’s my
’ook.”
I felt sorry to notice Bill’s lapse. I am
sure that Bill must have loved a good
woman at one time or another of his
life.
“Now we’d better get to work.” No
doubt this came from a ganger. I
There was no excited rush to begin
sweating, as I expected.
“Yes, we’d better well get to —
work.”
Everybody began to reiterate “getting
to work,” just in the sheep-like way of
wharflaborers. They might have got to
work in a few minutes, only for another
voice. It was the First Red Page voice
that said: —
“Don’t —— well know ’ow we’ll —
well stow that barley.”
“It’s a - monkey’s puzzle,” said the
Second Red Page voice.
“It’s a monkey’s -7'
puzzle,” said the voice of Bill. (Oh, Bill
and the way that you must have been
brought up!) You could understand Bill
No doubt, the Second Red Page voice
hadn’t expressed the difficulty of stowing
the barley sufficiently well.
Then the Second Red Page voice said:
“We’ll ’ave to well get round the
stack and stow the - stun
down that wing.” ( .
Then all the voices repeated: “WeU
’ave to well get round the T'
stack and stow the barley down th at
• wing.” It took five minutes
(more or less) to say it, as they didn t
say it in concert. |
I thought they would start work when
they had finished saying it, only someone
found one of them drinking a bottle 0
beer behind some cases, and everybody
had to comment upon it, and then some-
body said: “Well, boys, let’s get to
work,” and when everybody had repeats
it as a necessary formula before starting
work, an officer-sort of voice said:
the h 1 stowed this here?” ,
“Wasn’t me, sir,” replied an awt
voice, conciliatingly. ii
“Nor me, sir,” said the voice of Bill-
“Wasn’t any of us, sir,” c
“ ’Ow the could it be any 0
us, sir, when it’s wheat, and we i
stowing barley, and we’re not starts
work yet?” ?
“It was well done by the last
shift, sir,” said the Red Page
“It’s got no right here, anyway,” 83
the officer voice, severely. _
Then the Second Red Page voice nm
have grown sick of the sirring, or
interference of the officer voice. B sa
with a spit:—•
“Oh, shut yer nose.” k
The First Red Page voice did not ss
to think that this was expressed right-
evidently knew that the meaning
“Oh, shut up, and don’t poke your no
(<Continued foot of next column)


o things,” but it didn’t take time to get
sa w hh a louder spit;
Dn, shut yer nose in yer
°uth and get to out of this
yer.”
An< ? now * ets Set to work,” said
the voice of Bill.
As enny son of a seen my
Enny one seen Jim’s ’00k?”
’ ook A » lOther ’ s ’is
“W’y the ”
3 1 ’ ’ er< r’s ’is ’ook.”
s ° rn ght, yer s. Jim’s got ’is
„ 00k.”
And now let’s get to work.” [1914.]
THE COOBOO
KATHARINE SUSANNAH PRICHARD
THEY had been mustering all day on
the wide plains of Murndoo station.
Over the red earth, black with iron-
stone pebbles, through mulga and
curari bush, across the ridges which make
a blue wall along the horizon. And the
rosy, garish light of sunset was on plains,
hills, moving cattle, men and horses.
Through red dust the bullocks
mooched, restless and scary still, a wild
mob from the hills. John Gray, in the
rear with Arra, the boy who was his
shadow; Wongana, on the right with his
gin, Rose; Frank, the half-caste, on the
left with Minni.
A steer breaking from the mob before
Rose, she wheeled and went after him.
Faint and wailing, a cry followed her, as
though her horse had stepped on and
crushed some small creature. But the
steer was getting away. Arra went after
him, stretched along his horse’s neck,
rounded the beast and rode him back to
the mob, sulky and blethering. The mob
swayed; it had broken three times that
day, but was settling to the road.
John Gray called: “Yienda [you] damn
fool, Rosey. Finish!”
The gin, on her slight, rough-haired
horse, pulled up scowling.
“Tell Meetchie, Thirty Mile, to-
morrow,” John Gray said. “Miah, new
moon.”
Rose slewed her horse away from the
mob of men and cattle. That wailing,
thin and hard as hair-string, moved with
her.
“Minni! ”
John Gray jerked his head towards
Rose. Minni’s bare heels struck her
horse’s belly; with a turn of the wrist
she swung her horse off from the mob,
turned, leaned forward, rising in her
stirrups, and came up with Rose.
Thin, dark figures on their wiry station-
bred horses, the gins rode into the haze of
sunset towards the hills. The dull, dirty
blue of the trousers wrapped round their
legs was torn ; their short, fairish hair
tousled by the wind. But the glitter and
tumult of Rose’s eyes—Minni looked
away from them.
At a little distance, when men and
cattle were a moving cloud of red dust,
Rose’s anger gushed after them.
“Koo! ”
Fierce as the cry of a hawk flew her
last note of derision and defiance.
A far-away rattle of laughter drifted
back across the plains. The men had
heard and were laughing at her.
The women walked their horses across
country. Alone they would have been
afraid, as darkness coming up behind was
hovering near them, secreting itself among
the low, writhen trees and bushes. Afraid
of the evil spirits who wander over the
plains and stony ridges when the light
of day is withdrawn. But together they
were not so afraid. Twenty miles away,
over there, below that dent in the hills
where Nyedee Creek made a sandy bed
itself among white-bodied gums, was
Murndoo homestead and the uloo of
their people.
There was no track ; and in the first
darkness, which would be thick as wool
after the glow of sunset faded, only their
instinct would ke§p them moving in the
1 lr ection of the homestead and their own
ow round huts of bagging, rusty tin and
dead boughs.
Both were Wongana’s women: Rose,
al h gaunt and masterful; Minni,
younger, fat and jolly. Rose had been a
good stockman in her day: one of the
best. Minni did not ride or track nearly
as well as Rose.
And yet, as they rode along, Minni
pattered complaisantly of how well she
had worked that day ; of how she had
flashed, this way and that, heading-off
breakaways, dashing after them, turning
them back to the mob so smartly that
John had said, “Good man, Minni!”
There was the white bullock —he had
rushed near the yards. Had Rose seen
the chestnut mare stumble in a crab-
hole and send Arra flying? But Minni
had chased the white bullock, chased him
B. E. MINNS 1912
“So you Went to the phrenologist. What did he tell you?”
“Oh, he Was an awful fool He just coughed and smiled, then gave
me back my money.”
for a couple of miles, and brought him
back to the yards. No doubt there would
be riammery for her and a new gina-gina
when the men came in from the muster.
She pulled a pipe from her belt, shook
the ashes out, and with reins looped over
one arm stuffed the bowl with tobacco
from a tin tied to her belt. Stooping
down, she struck a match on her stirrup-
iron, guarded the flame to the pipe be-
tween her short, white teeth, and smoked
contentedly.
The scowl on Rose’s face deepened,
darkened. That thin, fretted wailing came
from her breast.
She unslung from her neck the rag
rope by which the baby had been held
against her body, and gave him a sagging
breast to suck. Holding him with one
arm, she rode slowly, her horse picking
his way over the rough, stony earth.
It had been a hard day. The gins
were mustering with the men at sunrise.
Camped at Nyedee well the night before,
in order to get a good start, they had
been riding through the timbered ridges
all the morning, rounding up wild cows,
calves and young bullocks, and driving
them down to the yards at Nyedee, where
John Gray cut out the fats, left old
Jimmy and a couple of boys to brand
calves, turn the cows and calves back to
the ridge again while he took on the mob
for trucking at Meekatharra. The bul-
locks were as wild as birds —needed
watching all day. And all the time that
small, whimpering bundle against her
breast had hampered Rose’s movements.
There was nothing the gins liked better
than a muster, riding after cattle. And
they could ride, were quicker in their
movements, more alert than the men :
sharper at picking up tracks. They did
not go mustering very often nowadays
when there was work to do at the home-
stead. Since John Gray had married, and
there was a woman on Murndoo, she
found plenty of washing, scrubbing and
sweeping for the gins to do ; would not
spare them often to go after cattle. But
John was short-handed. He had said he
must have Rose and Minni to muster
Nyedee. And all day her baby’s crying
had irritated Rose. The cooboo had
wailed and wailed as she rode with him
tied to her body.
The cooboo was responsible for the
wrong things she had done all day. Stupid
things. Rose was furious. The men had
yelled at her. Wongana, her man, black-
guarding her before everybody, had
called her “a hen who did not know where
she laid her eggs.” And John Gray,
with his “Yienda damn fool, Rosey.
Finish I” had sent her home like a
naughty child.
Now, here was Minni jabbering of the
tobacco she would get and the new gina-
gina. How pleased Wongana would be
with her! And the cooboo, wailing, wail-
ing. He wailed as he chewed Rose’s
empty breast, squirming against , her;
wailed and gnawed.
She cried out with hurt and impatience.
Rage, irritated to madness, rushed
through her; rushed like waters coming
down the dry creek-beds after heavy rain.
Rose wrenched the cooboo from her
breast and flung him from her to the
ground. There was a crack as of twigs
breaking.
Minni glanced aside. “Wiah!” she
gasped with widening eyes. But Rose
rode on, gazing ahead over the rosy,
garish plains and wall of the hills, darken-
ing from blue to purple and indigo.
When the women came into the station
kitchen, earth, hills and trees were dark ;
the sky heavy with stars. Minni gave his
wife John’s message —that he would be
home with the new moon, in about a
fortnight.
Meetchie, as the blacks called Mrs.
John Gray, could not make out why the
gins were so stiff and quiet—why Rose
stalked scowling and sulky-fellow, sombre
eyes just glancing, and away again.
Meetchie wanted to ask her about the
muster; what sort of condition the bul-
locks had on ; how many were on the
road; if many calves had been branded
at Nyedee. But she knew them too well
to ask questions when they looked like
that.
Only when she had given them bread
and a tin of jam, cut off hunks of corned
beef for them, filled their billies with
strong black tea, put sugar in their empty
tins, and they were going off to the uloo,
she was surprised to see Rose without her
baby.
“Why, Rose,” she exclaimed, “where’s
the cooboo ?”
Rose stalked off into the night. Minni
glanced back with scared eyes, and fol-
lowed Rose.
In the dawn, when a cry, remote and
anguished, flew through the clear air,
Meetchie wondered who was dead in the
camp by the creek. She remembered
Rose: how she had looked the night
before. And the cooboo —where was he?
Then she knew that it was Rose wail-
ing for her cooboo in the dawn ; Rose
cutting herself with stones until her body
bled ; Rose screaming in a fury of un-
availing grief. [1927.]
THE MOUSE.
By Hugh McCrae.
All Christmas night upon the shelf.
Among the apples yellow-faced,
There played a pretty maiden mouse
Divinely slim and very chaste.
Who, when I held my candle up,
Did twink her little eyes at me . . .
So mad, so bright, so mischievous;
I thought of you, dear Dorothy!
DREAMS.
By Victor James Daley.
I have been dreaming all a summer day
Of rare and dainty poems I would write;
Love-lyrics delicate as lilac-scent.
Soft idylls woven of wind, and flower, and
stream,
And songs and sonnets carven in fine gold.
The day is fading and the dusk is cold;
Out of the skies has gone the opal gleam,
Out of my heart has passed the high intent
Into the shadow of the falling night—
Must all my dreams in darkness pass
away?
I have been dreaming all a summer day:
Shall I go dreaming so until Life’s light
Fades in Death’s dusk, and all my days are
spent?
Ah, what am I the dreamer but a dream!
The day is fading and the dusk is cold.
My songs and sonnets carven in fine gold
Have faded from me with the last day-
beam
That purple lustre to the sea-line lent,
And flushed the clouds with rose and
chrysolite;
So days and dreams in darkness pass away.
I have been dreaming all a summer day
Of songs and sonnets carven in fine gold;
But all my dreams in darkness pass away;
The day is fading, and the dusk is cold.


MAGIC
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Narrow backyards where on the washing-line
Flutters the flag of skimping poverty;
Punched gardens of a smoky, budless vine
Or aphis-stricken rose of misery;
Children who seem spawn of some outer Hell,
Birth-blighted babes who know the gutter well;
A blear-eyed, slouching tramp in tattered shirt—
Unpicturesque indeed is Western dirt!
But I shall weave a vantage web of dreams.
Naught shall be here this noon-hour as it seems!
This street of choked-up drains and full-fed rats
That woke at dawn to milkmen’s clattering cans,
That sagging fence, pathway of prowling cats,
Shall be the track of laden caravans.
The lizard-headed camels, see them come.
And yonder Nubian slave, a eunuch, dumb.
With the gold chain upon his naked chest
He guides the palanquin where she has rest.
The air is soft with the faint scent of flowers.
Of citron-blooms from some green sheltered glade;
They laid them by her for siesta hours
That she should dream, silk-curtained, of their shade;
And, pacing with the North-bound caravan.
The eunuch fans her with a palm-leaf fan,
While with wide nostril sniffing from afar
The musk and sandalwood of the bazaar.
What late has been a mean and sordid street
I find a place of shimmering desert sands;
I feel the desert winds blow dry and sweet
From glistening ranges to moist coastal lands;
And when the dustman with his hopper cart
Comes to perform his necessary part,
The gleaning from the dusty garbage-pan
Is merchandise in some rich caravan.
Great bales of silk to wrap round warm white
limbs;
Some silver anklets, packed with cinnamon;
A veil that, like a mountain’s cloud-top, dim*
To keep its beauty undefiled, for one
Who shall be first to lift that veil and press
Upon her lips the conqueror’s caress.
Who fiercely visions through these waiting hours
Narrow backyards, where on the swinging vine
Flutters the flag of scantly-clothed distress,
A cairn of empty tins that gape and shine,
A scolding slattern in a beer-stained dress,
A bloated rat, fresh from some gruesome feast.
I wave my wand
The glamor of the East
Sweeps over all. Across a blood-red sun
I see the camels moving, one by one,
And ’twixt the curtains of the palanquin
A jewel flaming on a milk-white skin!
NORMAN LINDSAY and MABEL FORREST 1913
M. FORREST.


When Henry Lawson
was young...
George Robertson, of Angus and Robertson, moved the
firm’s premises to Castlereagh Street, then a quiet back-
water where grooms exercised their horses, while most
of the city’s retail business was carried on in George Street.
The shop which stands in Castlereagh Street today is very
different from that old one, and the sixpenny outside boxes
and the Shilling Book Shop have long ago disappeared.
Yet if any genial ghosts of the old days should return —
“G.R.,” Henry Lawson or “Banjo” Paterson, men
whose names stand high in the literature of our country
—they would find that the tradition established by book-
men and writers of their calibre is still carried on by the
firm and its authors today.
%r«
89
H
m
mm
□
=r>
* -i
*2
r.X-> J
5*
s
itpl
s
c a
tS
s
y-'
.
A ! V '--
t±n±a
[7 s
booksellers new & qed.
7
COTTfSH
ft ,
Riaes
|B9J
I 1
IZ
sCIaSS 3
STORY-BOOK ONLY Hugh McCrae
All who appreciate personality and the rich comedy
of human affairs will delight in this book. Its charm
is enhanced by the author’s witty illustrations, which
bear, as do his poetry and prose, the impress of a
striking personality. 30s.
SUCH IS LIFE Tom Collim
Tom Collins declared his book to be “offensively
Australian.” Wit, shrewd observation and salty
humour are blended in this individual and enter-
taining classic by the most resolutely democratic of
all Australian writers. 12s. 6d.
the collected verse of a. b.
PATERSON
Since the appearance of ‘‘The Man from Snowy
River in 1895, bushmen and city-dwellers alike
have responded to the swinging rhythms of these
inimitable tales in verse which are as fresh to us
today as they ever were. I Os. 6d.
THE FLESH AND THE SPIRIT
Douglas Stewart
A selection of Douglas Stewart’s literary essays from
e Red Page which prove that fine poet and dramatist
to be a distinguished critic with wit, a balanced judg-
Inen t an d a highly individual point of view. I Os. 6d.
AUSTRALIAN POETRY. 1948
issue of an annual anthology is edited by Judith
right. It contains poems by many “Bulletin” con-
nbutors. notably R. D. Fitz Gerald. Douglas Stewart,
ar y Gilmore, David Campbell, Nan McDonald and
Rosemary Dobson. 7 S , 6d.
|5
0®
THE POETICAL WORKS OF HENRY
LAWSON
Henry Lawson’s poetry belongs to the j*reat period
when our country was in the making. His ringing
ballads and vivid vignettes of character have won
undisputed places in the hearts of his countrymen.
10s. 6d.
SELECTED VERSE
This selection contains Mary Gilmore’s best and most
characteristic poems. it reveals the vigour of her
mind and her creative imagination and expresses
much of Australia—its outlook, its landscape and its
people. I Os. 6d.
WOMAN TO MAN Judith Wright
In the words of the Red Page Judith Wright’s first
volume of poems promised “anything; everything:
the world.” Lovers of literature have eagerly awaited
this book which is a fulfilment of that promise. 7s. 6d.
DUSTY Frank Dalby Davison
This story of a dog of the sheep country won the
Melbourne “Argus” novel competition in 1946. It is
written with that intuitive understanding of the
animal world which distinguished the author’s earlier
book, “Man-Shy.” Bs. 6d.
THE MAGIC PUDDING
Norman Lindsay
“The Magic Pudding” is a book for every child, and
it continues to delight its owners long after childhood
has been left behind. Nobody but Norman Lindsay,
in whose genius the writer and the artist are com-
bined, could have created it. I 2s. 6d.
ANGUS AND ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers Publishers Librarians
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY


rmz r
m
5
.... i i
1
u
7 J?
<C C
*4;;
V; : :^ :: " ::V;: S ; .': : -^:.:;'>:x:
Beautiful Persian Rugs
at Special Clearance Prices!
Our complete stock of hand made Persian Rugs has
been reduced in price especially for your
convenience! Now you can buy that rug you’ve
been promising yourself for so long, the price is so low!
Kirman Extra Fine, 4ft. 6in. x 2ft. Priced at £25
Kirman Extra Fine, 6ft. 7in. x 4ft. Sin. Priced at only £9l
Turco Shiraz, 7ft. llin. x sft. 2in. Priced at £64
Kashan, 10ft. 2in. x 7ft. Sin. Priced at only £207
TTabriz, 10ft. Sin. x 7ft. Sin. Priced at £165
2s-:
SOT
1
SfIUWRONNCT »62»
&
>Jr
£S
<
• .
1
Oven
by the “Senior Store” —a reputation for n
' a reputation for the cog
/
Truly the Universal Providers, AN
good quality goods at famous low prices!
to give such service and satisfactii
truth Min advertising*’
mm
*r'
M
m
&
mm
m
m
m
m
wm
M
!>':?***s• w>>;
II
SS
m
- • '
Wa
m&.
-- '
m*
m
-■
m
'm
m
M
m
Thoughtfully de-
signed split corners
allow for l ed posts.
m
SSI
Spread tucked be-
hind bed ends hangs
evenly, looks tidy.
Tailwt
With neatly
Off-White,»
Left.
No. 25 Jgig'
Cream Mai -( l llb!
A. —
B— Hongg^
C.-Scrolljg
Unillustrated-
White with" 10
Curtains can
A
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SOFT FURNISHINGS DEPARTMENT, THIRD FLOOR; CARPETS AND RUBBER FLOORING,


YEARS
1
WHILE I LIVE I’Ll GROW
of Faithful Service
od of 126 years, a reputation has been built up
portability and honest dealing;
of the large staff and their helpful advice on all matters.
Y HORDERNS’ caters for your every need and you are assured of really
ilure years, the “Senior Store” will continue
lustomers!
s - 3
is
kit h
<->Ny
£
11
fliu
Kirn:
m
»■ BJS I
Vi
V 4:
m pUcity and modern charm choose
taille Bedspreads
flounce on sides and one end, in
krooni, Blue, Green, Maize and Rose.
I s * ze ’ £7/15/6; Bft. bed size, £7/12/6.
S ’ w i°le, 6ft. 6in., each curtain 23/11.
e fled size, £4/5/6; 3ft, bed size, £4/2/6.
Ale bed size, £4/15/-; 3ft. bed size, £4/12/-,
b e d size, £5/5/9; 3ft. bed size, £5/3/-,
flso douKi £7/7/9; 3ft. bed size, £7/5/6.
ü ble bed, £5/16/-; 3ft. size, £5/13/6.
ied t 0
match all the above Bedspreads.
mmimi
mi
' TELEPHONE:
M 2401 SYDNEY (DAY AND NIGHT).
FOR FURTHER INQUIRIES WRITE TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
72-hour Dry Cleaning Service
Your clothes will last longer if you
have them regularly dry cleaned and
pressed. Complete satisfaction is assured
from our Service, Ground Floor, George St.
Australian Keytone
Rubber Flooring 25/6
The popular choice for kitchens,
bathrooms, halls, counters, mats, etc.
Green, Blue, Fawn, Cherry and
multi-coloured. 3ft. wide, |in. thick.
Bedroom Furniture
situated on
our Third Floor. *
■
gT;
H
N
."^ssma
i
I
....;• *;
f
M
,
P'S*
%
S ’■■
;
• -
. ■ ,
'■ I
2n^
£X v
.
■ , ■
Pacific Maple Bedroom Suite
In Pacific Maple, comprising two wardrobes, five-drawer chest, dressing table or single
pedestal design, and 3ft. or 4ft. Gin.* bedstead. And you can buy this Suite
unit by unit! All hanging wardrobe, £25/12/9; fitted wardrobe, £3l/19/9;
chest of drawers, £l9/14/3; bedside chest, £9/16/-; dressing table, £l6/7/9;
mirror, £4/12/6; 4ft. 6in. bedstead, £6/18/-; 3ft. bedstead, £5/16/6.


m smm yms.
m fm
■o
7)
ZJ
o
//
m\9
AND ITS PRINTED
with Wimbles inks
F. T. WIMBLE and Co. LIMITED extend hearty
congratulations to "The Bulon its 70 years of
achievement and wish it continued success.
UNIQUE WURLD RECORD . . .
Since 1880 F. T. Wimble and Co. Limited have
supplied the Printing Inks to "The Bulletin.”
m ■ '
F. T. WIMBLE and CO. LIMITED
(Established 1867)
SYDNEY MELBOURNE :: BRISBANE :: ADELAIDE :: PERTH NEW ZEALAND


STIFF LUCK FOR THE COLONEL
BY CECIL MANN
<i f OOD morning, old chap,” said
I“I the Colonel, “and how do you
y J feel this morning? Not so hot,
eh? Too bad, old fellow.
Deepest sympathy, old boy. -Well now,
what d’you say to a mouthful of hair?”
“No, no! Indeed no! I positively
think not,” said the Colonel. “Far too
early in the morning.”
“Far too early in the morning for to
waken me,” sang the Colonel. “Nelson's
three and Sally Martin to that, old boy.
What’s come over you? Between you
and me, old chap, I’ll tell you what it is.
You’re losing your punch. You’re slip-
ping into the sere and yellow. Last scene
of all, old boy, last scene of all. Like
a good fellow, let me prescribe for you.
Just this once. A mouthful of hair. Come
now—just one. Just two little fingers! ”
“Well, h’m, perhaps one,” conceded the
Colonel. “You have made out a most
conclusive case. Argument unanswerable.
Great help in your future work. You
leave for the Bush, of course, tomorrow
morning.”
“Right, right,” said the Colonel. “All
the more reason for knocking over that
mouthful. Am I right or am I right?”
“I think on second thoughts,” agreed
the Colonel, “you are right.”
“Splendid!” cried the Colonel, throw-
ing off the bedclothes and getting a bit
vaguely on to the floor. “I knew you
would. Do you good, old fellow. I think
we’ll find it over here.”
“But, really, should I?” said the
Colonel, stopping half-way across the
room. “Out there on that screw we’ll be
as good as dead, ‘Sobriety
essential,’ ” quoted the
Colonel, recalling the ad-
vertisement. “Your last
day in this delightful city,
old chap. I ask you,” said
the Colonel unctuously,
“should we begin a day
destined to live long in our
deepest memories with im-
pious tippling? I repeat,
Mr. Speaker, should we?”
“My answer to the gallant and honor-
able member for Grenville,” replied the
Colonel, “is my oath we should! What
reasonable grounds has the gallant and
honorable member for supposing that in
that hell to which he’s going he will have
either the cash or the opportunity for
tippling, impious or otherwise? From
tomorrow, my friend, you’ll be sober.
Think of it. May I ask you what are
we waiting for?”
Reaching the mantelpiece, the Colonel
noted the mirror’s fat and florid comment
on his countenance. His hand rubbed the
grey bristles down his jaw, brushed over
the thinning short-cut grey thatch.
Swollen eyelids, short, vein-traced nose,
tubby round face, thick red ear-lobes like
pendants.
From a half-empty bottle he poured
out a stiff nip, held it up and through it
had a distorted view of the Domain. He
lowered the glass and looked over the top
of it at the Moreton Bay figs and the grass
green-carpeting between.
“Winter in another month,” he said,
still talking aloud. “Doss down there?
Goodnight, sweet prince, would you like
another fig-leaf?”
He raised the glass abruptly and gulped.
It started him coughing, and his face be-
came redder with the rack of it.
“And now,” said the Colonel, re-
covered, “what about another? You
won’t? Will you stop arguing the point?
I’ll tick you off in a minute. You’re
nothing but a lump of rotten gas-eaten
guts. Look at yourself—you’re a bright
bloody specimen, aren’t you?”
“Now then, now then,” said the
Colonel. “Easy on the language, old
fellow. This isn’t a parade. What’s come
over you? This is Easter Monday in
Sydney, a beautiful autumn morning and
the sun is shining.”
“Quite right, quite right,” agreed the
Colonel, half-filling the tumbler and look-
ing defiantly into the mirror. “Well,
chin-chin.”
Steadied, he shaved and dressed. For
company he had those boon companions,
the Colonel and the Past. Identical with
him, they made a short, fat trinity,
perched on the side of a seedy-looking bed
holding a glass of whisky. The Past was
the dominant member ; had been, in. fact,
since the tough, utterly fearless, incredibly
lucky infantryman became the Colonel
only to himself and to any of the old
crowd who didn’t happen to first see him
coming.
Not at all one of those morose, un-
friendly Pasts that hang like a dead
albatross dripping remorse. As Pasts go,
not a bad boss by any means. By Head-
long out of Carefree.
Neither country and duty nor honor
and glory led R. Z. Rowdell to war. He
went for the fun of it. And he enjoyed it.
He still did, old Past conjuring it up.
White clothes and black faces and bum-
boats at Colombo. Dirt and frowsy
secretiveness of Port Said. Things there,
says old Past guffawing, that you wouldn’t
touch with a barge-pole—not now, you
wouldn’t. Your luck was in ; so you
weren’t in the barbed-wire compound
with your works swollen and trussed up
in cotton-wool. They cure it quicker now,
says braggart Present.
Stinking Arabs squatting on slabs of
pulp that would be turned into jam for
the troops, A man or two in the artillery
lines spreadeagled to gunwheels on the
blazing sand, wrists tied to the spokes.
Not Australians, they say, old Past com-
ments drily, laughing hugely at the joke.
Oh, no, never Australians. Boloney, says
old Past in his toothless way.
Lemnos, drunk as Chloe on the potent
cognac of that green and pleasant isle.
Gallipoli, a lieutenancy ; France, captain ;
the Somme in ’sixteen, M.C.; Passchen-
daele, D. 5.0.; a chestful of gas there,
and so to bed and home again.
Black Bess, the Colonel’s men called
hirp. He was black then, as to bullet-head
thatch and the whiskers that curled close
to his face and stuck thick there with mud
after a bit in the line. It’d be a damn
untruth, and you know it, says old Past,
to claim that they liked you there.
Colonel. They reckoned you a murderer,
remember? They got over it, though,
didn’t they. Colonel, once they’d been
through a few stunts with you? Great
crowd of chaps. Too bad they dodge us
now, isn’t it?
Back in Australia. Why not a shot for
Parliament? Why not? The gallant and
honorable member. Jolly good, while it
lasted.
And from what? Chasing cows bare-
legged through wet and frosted bracken
before daybreak. School-leaving age,
twelve. At sixteen cutting sugar-cane
from daylight to dark. At seventeen
felling jungle scrub. At eighteen, with
about as many pounds, to the city. At
twenty-two, the great chance of enlisting
and seeing the world ; passing, too, for
one of the educated. At thirty the gallant
and honorable member.
Uncharitably, the decline and fall of the
Colonel began at home. Fay Beresford
(nee Jenkins) blessed him with a daughter
that neither of them particularly wanted.
Then there was a charming actor laddie
with magnificent legs and a weak tenor
voice. After that there was another;
indeed, a procession. For art’s sake.
There was not much of art, stage or any
other, about the Colonel. So, old Past
cheerfully recalls, you put your head
down between your hands and wept
copiously—or did you. Colonel? Like
hell you did. You went and did a lot of
likewise, didn’t you, you old plagiarist?
Like the fiddler’s rooster, you found it a
hearty thing to do.
The Judge in Divorce spoke like more
than u father to the lovely lady. He
agreed ; the demoralising effects of war.
Custody of the child.
It cost him his Parliament seat. Also,
there was no comeback to it. You just
can’t go around having a succession of
divorces as a counter-attack. Darned
expensive, anyway.
In this impasse, the first he’d en-
countered so far, the Colonel made a
somewhat hazy discovery. The haze was
bottled; the discovery was Randwick.
He did better than well at it. You always
were lucky, or nearly always, old Past
likes to remind him, sitting there on the
edge of the frowsy bed with his fifth
(Continued overleaf.)
DAVID LOW 1919
The Circus Leaves for Home
(from the Peace Conference ).


whisky. Remember that German who
nearly got in first from behind you at
Bullecourt? Squealed a bit, didn’t he?
A game and hence a good gambler, the
Colonel. It wasn’t the horses that broke
him. He fell into a ditch flamboyantly
misnamed New Guinea Oil.
The gas may have helped ; anyhow, the
pieces weren’t worth picking up. In a
month or two it was being passed from
one to another of the old crowd that
Black Bess was on the bum. Most of
them went to a quid, some to a fiver, one
to a tenner. He divided it between hair
of the mythical dog and Randwick. But
now he bet weakly, like a bank clerk.
He bet on a Sydney-or-the-Bush basis;
and now, tomorrow, it was the Bush. A
JIM BANCKS 1922
"Is she good?"
“ Dunno , but she's clever."
job of sorts. Work. You won’t care for
that, Colonel, old Past insists. Never
mind, old boy, we’ll still be together.
“But come now,” said the Colonel,
“Shake out of it, old chap. On with the
old lid, and well take a look over the
village.”
“I’m with you,” said the Colonel. “No,
no more. There’s only a couple left. We
might need it later. Am I right or am
I right?”
“You’re right,” said the Colonel. “But
just one mouthful. Just that size. There
you are. Down the hatch. Where did we
leave our hat?”
Getting close on midday when the
Colonel, a solitary note in his pocket,
walked tentatively into the bar. A hectic
“Strike a light, if it isn’t the Colonel!”
He hadn’t heard that for quite a time.
As he shook hands he tried to place the
smiling friendly enthusiast.
“Y* remember me, don’t y", Colonel?”
the enthusiast said.
“Of course I remember you,” said the
Colonel. “You’re—oh, Jet me see
now”
Sergeant Blake of the old Batt.
Growin’ bananas. Been roundin’ up a
few of the old mob. Ran into a whole
mob of them yesterday. They’ll be cornin’
in a bit after twelve. We’ll have one to
go on with. What d’y’ fancy, Colonel?
Give her a name. Still like the old gay
an’ frisk? Make it two whiskies, miss.
Growing bananas, eh? thought the
Colonel. There’s corn in Egypt yet. He
paid for the next drinks.
It was a shame to take the tenner, but
the Colonel took it He’d gone and left
his confounded wallet on the mantelpiece,
He had to get to Randwick in time for
the first. It might be the second ; he
wasn’t too sure. Would hear when he
got there. Meet you here, afterwards,
Blake. Between five and half-past.
“An’ whack this on f me! ”
The Colonel took the extra fiver,
Folded it with steady fingers and put it
in his inside coat pocket. He had no
doubt whatever now. His old luck was
back with him. The filly would donkey-
lick them in the second.
Six of the old crowd came in in a
bunch as Blake was shouting. They shook
hands with the Colonel. There was a
casual deference in it. His creditors, his
bummed-on victims. But for the old
Pasts of all of them, his old mob. A few
more came in, greeting him and Blake;
some deference for the double D.C.M.
and double M.M., but not enough to
isolate him, like the Colonel. Something
else, too, in the feeling for the Colonel,
You wouldn’t say prudes— not old
Diggers. Well, hardly. Still, that feeling
about the Colonel—that he had let the
old Battalion down. Not wowsers—of
course not. But the Colonel just a
drunk. Not right. Not at all right. You
couldn’t be proud of a drunk. They
wanted to be proud of him. Wanted him
to stand on his pedestal; above them,
where the military rank had put him—■
and had put them,
More came in. They packed the corner
of the bar. The Colonel accepted the
deference of these, too, as a matter of
course. You’re still their leader, eh? old
Past assured him.
The voices rose in a medley of past and
present. Smoke hanging thick over the
group. One of them urging the Colonel
aside, “We’re going to start some two-
bob-ins. Might cost you a bit. Thought
y’ might be short, Colonel.”
The Colonel took the ten-shilling note,
crumpling it in his hand. “Thank you,
Collins.” He made a word of command
of it.
“She’s fixed,” Collins said to ex-
corporal Paterson, back at the bar. “You
start ’em going. I’ll rig th’ numbers.”
They mumbled to the next ones to
them. The word passed. Riggin’ a few
fr th’ Colonel. Pass it on.
Sergeant Blake, banana - grower,
thought, what’s fifteen quid, anyhow?
Most of them sitting on the drinks they
had, the Colonel won three in a row, lost
one, won several more. They kept the
joke going. Old Pasts saying to them all,
including the Colonel: Always was lucky.
Remember when he wouldn’t let the
machine-gunners loose on the mob
cornin’ over that mornin’ at Bullecourt.
He was right, too. Our own blokes. It’d
have been just a massacre. If he’d have
been wrong, we’d have been on the
massacre end of it. Remember when
Deference and the other feeling some-
what retired, but still hovering near about,
unadmitted, even unrecognised by any of
them, by the time they surged him out to
the door. “You always were lucky,” came
well from Blake. Deference to old
authority and the other feeling standing
aside to permit the handshakes and the
pats on the back.
The Colonel took a taxi to Randwick,
Great lot of boys, old Past said to him.
Damn handsome of Blake, don’t you
think? Fancy forgetting him. Must have
won that double D.C.M. after we left for
home and mother.
Hie Colonel went into the Randwick
paddock enclosure. Not seeing as clearly
as he might, perhaps, but hands steady.
Everything under control. For all anyone
could tell to the contrary, cold sober.
He went straight to the betting ring.
His ears tuned to the bellowed confusion.
Sevens, quick. Present said to the Colonel;
what th’ hell are they backing? Get in
while th’ going’s good.
The Colonel shouldered his way a bit
further’ in through the crowd. They were
taking odds about the Queensland colt.
Couldn’t beat her with me on her, thought
the Colon/I. Barging through to the
bookie calling sevens; dragging out his
twenty pounds as he went.
Free of the crowd, the Colonel made
for the bar. He took his time over the
whisky, and sauntered out in front of the
stand. There was still room up in the seat
rows behind him, but he spread his tubby
bulk down on the slope. He saw the
Queensland colt go out on the track and
measured him quickly. Damn good colt,
thought the Colonel. He’ll win races when
he’s knocked the Albion sand out of his
hoofs. Nothing surer
The field came out, breaking into their
trotting and cantering prelims. He looked
closely at the filly, with the black and
white colors up. The books, surging
along and around him with the crowd,
had her now at fives. Confidence rose
higher.
The Colonel stood up from force of
habit. At his level there was nothing to
see. The loudspeaker gave him all he
wanted.
As he expected, it wasn’t a race. The
filly passed the post four lengths clear,
with her mouth open and her ears
pricked. And the Colonel collected.
They gave him fours to his hundred and
sixty in the weight-for-age. The old
entire, twitching his tail, looked sour on
the job, but he was still better than that
lot.
The Colonel let the next race pass, and
the next. A month ago, in ten-shilling
bets, he’d have been niggling at both. This
was today. It was most literally Sydney
or the Bush; and he was heading for
thousands.
Four whiskies, quietly, while they were
running two races, did their bit. He sat
at the beer-flooded marble-top table in
the bar, waiting. The roar and tumult
came down to him there from another
world. Old Past, if he hadn’t handed over
the guard to waiting Present, could have
reminded him that it was like the barrage
of guns, standing along the rear ridge
wheel to wheel, belching their thunder
over Pozieres. Just a mass of sound that
was going on, while you kept your eye
and ear on the ticking clock. You didn’t
question. Colonel —old Past would have
said —that you’d be alive when three-
quarters of the chaps along the trench
would be dead or mangled.
The roaring above rose to crescendo as
the second of the two races ended. The
Colonel wasn’t listening. Waiting. Steady
and cold as iron.
He got up and went back to the ring.
His hearing sifted the sounds. It broke
down the confusion; separated it into
pieces with meaning.
The Colonel made his cash bets. He
walked out of the ring broke but for a
few loose pounds. He had no doubt what-
ever. He went into the bar again and
braced himself with a double whisky. For
any effect it had on his outward showing
or inside his bullet head, it might have
been lemonade.
He vyent through on to the lawn slope
and spread out there, leaning on an
elbow, watching them come out for the
last. His thought worked out the total
at eights. He was as certain of it as of
the Bush being completely off. Neither
Present nor old Past —that damned pair
of humbug quacks—saying anything of
the tensions holding him together.
Instead, backing up his complete con-
fidence. Waiting on the slope with him,
letting the crowd mill around, listening to
the loudspeaker. Getting him then on his
feet.
The tensions giving just a little. The
Present saying. Steady, steady now,
Colonel. That was something like a
stumble.
The loudspeaker voice sending them
off, sorting out the leading lot; following
them around the long sweep to the turn.
As they’re rushing up the straight, old
toothless Past: He’s a monty! We always
were lucky. He’s home on the pig’s ear.
Am I right or am I right?
“You’re right!” shouts the Colonel.
“You’re right. You’re right! Six
thousand lovely smackers! You little
snifter! ”
And he certainly was; with a neck to
spare. $8
Stiff luck for the Colonel. Very hard
luck indeed. Six thousand, when the
(Continued foot of next column.)
D. H. SCOTER 1927
“Before we were married he used to call me an angel. Now he
doesn't call me anything."
“Perhaps he doesn't want to hurt your feelings."
“Not he — it's my private opinion that he isn't game."


tensions give way, takes going through,
w u co V ldn,t . q uite make it. He did his
, but there it is. The old crowd, since
Zf? ld ]^ k their <l uids and fivers, think
° f - hl ™ - , No > PeAaps you’re right.
Pprh apS 5 ISn * on that account at all.
{iSsfP® f s a mixture of relief that he’s
anri h nf d -i et u n ? d ° Wn the old Battalion
and of it s being easier to think well of
tha^W? 17 ' I i e I dldn ’ t die in his bed, if
over h if g /“ e 1m a hero ' He «PPed
Street h «n/ T A wet , day in WiUiam-
mSl UM3 T h ‘ S SkuU on ** P* ve -
IT FINDS ITS LEVEL
BY GAVIN S. CASEY
SHAREHOLDERS in the Open Reef
were fortunate in that their ex-
ceptionally rich and isolated lease
was only a couple of hundred
miles from the coast. But in England,
where most of them were, that distance
appears to be much greater than it does
beneath the Southern Cross. It loomed
particularly large when the project of
pumping water —water for treatment of
the ore, and water for the settlement of
the township—up through the ranges
to the reef was placed before the
directors.
The resulting debate was a long and
heated one. Certain members of the
board arrived from their suburbs after
considerable study of maps and plans,
determined on no account to send good
money after bad. They found, however,
that the enthusiasm of their general
manager, who had seen the reef, was
infectious. They also found their secre-
tary armed with facts and figures.
After listening for a while they found
themselves committed to the securing of
more capital, to the seeking of Govern-
ment assistance and to the eventual build-
ing of a water scheme which would be
one of the greatest private enterprises
of its kind in the world. Beneath their
bowler hats they strode away, feeling
themselves to be Empire-builders in the
truest sense of the term. If, during ensu-
ing months, they suffered qualms, they
knew it was too late, maintained brave
faces, and talked airily of the mighty
matter to their friends. They received
attention and admiration from the Press
and the public.
But their fame was as nothing to that
of their general manager, who had
hastened back to Australia with the laud-
able object of “getting things going.”
The g.m. was received as a hero and a
national benefactor. The atmosphere
suited him; he expanded genially to the
adulation he received as he sat in his
office day after day, surrounded by his
consultants and his subordinates, direct-
ing operations which would alter the face
of half the State.
So the great scheme progressed through
many months of labor and organisation
and reorganisation. A number of con-
tractors made modest fortunes. A minor
scandal ended with the summary dis-
missal of a couple of subordinates. But
the pipe continued to stretch towards the
interior, and the g.m,, who had experi-
enced some uneasy moments over the
incident, managed eventually to use it to
convince his employers even more com-
pletely that he was “the right man in
the right place.”
Settlements along the proposed pipeline
squabbled, and were bitter toward each
other in bringing forward their rival
claims to be sites of the various pumping
stations. Districts on the route antici-
pated substantial benefit from the com-
pany s undertaking to supply water for
irrigation and household needs. The
g.m. was guest-of-honor at numerous
Mate Government and local-government
ceremonies. He grew stouter and
smoother, and became aware of a vague
re gret that his wife was not a smarter
woman the kind with the social sense
nat is so helpful to the successful man.
, ilme res °lved itself into years, and
he two-hundred-mile conduit, with the
rg dam at one end of it and the pheno-
menally rich Open Reef at the other,
ecame an accepted feature of State
and was less talked about. But
!g Bill West, the g.m. of the company
and the man behind the great scheme,
remained as well known as the State
Premier. Entrenched in the country,
with vast residences at the mine and at
the coast, and a couple of big cars in
which to zoom over the dusty roads
between them, he knew achievement and
a contentment that was only slightly
ruffled when, after a quarter of a century
of big profits, the Open Reef yield began
to decline. It was not so serious after
all. Just a matter for tightening up here
and there, and even if the Reef at some
distant date petered out altogether it
would be long after his time, and the
water-supply, example of foresight and
clever engineering, would remain as his
monument for ever.
Examination of the state of affairs
was, however, necessary. At odd
moments, and by conscious efforts, he
found time for the distasteful task of
examining many sets of figures. Such of
them as he found of unusual interest he
passed on to his consultants and sub-
ordinates, and minor reforms followed.
Soon only in one matter —that of costs
at the company’s pumping-stations—did
an unsolved mystery remain.
“Look here,” said Big Bill to Martin,
the water-supply line and plant super-
visor, “Number Two plant at Wendinnie is
giving us the results we should be getting
all along the line. See that? Less fuel,
less repairs and costs per 1000 gallons
that make figures from the other two
look bad —very bad. Look into it, will
you?”
Initially, Martin “looked into it” by
studying more carefully the costs sheets
for various periods. He found them
amazing. From his knowledge of the
twenty-five-year-old plants at the trio of
stations he considered that Numbers One
and Three were doing very well in the
matter of fuel and spares. Results from
Number Two were really astounding. In
his dusty tourer he set out to inspect.
At Number Three, nearest the mine, the
driver and his fireman were indignant.
They were nursing their wheezy gear,
and no men could do more than they
were doing. “If you think anyone can,
try ’em,” was the text of their remarks.
Feeling a certain sympathy, Martin drove
on the fifty miles that brought him to
(Continued overleaf.)
Looking West.
WALTER JARDINE and RODERIC QUINN 1928
flock following snowy flock,
Gulls to their rest are winging.
Sunset out of the lustrous west
Purple and rose is flinging.
Ships a-many, like fabled ships.
Ships of the Realm of Story,
Lie at anchor, with mast and hull
Steeped in the purple glory.
Smoke, slow rising from ship and shore,
Touched by the magic splendor
Makes a veil that the moon peers through.
Crescent ap'd pale and tender.
Over it lit and lovely clouds.
Rent by a wind asunder,
Domed and distant the city lies
Wrapped in a robe of wonder.
While, flock following snowy flock,
Gulls to their rest are flying,
Fades the purple and rose to grey—
All in a moment dying.
RODERIC QUINN.


Wendinnie, and there interviewed Mc-
Henry, the' apparent superman in charge
of the superstation.
“I bin drivin’ here for twenty-five
years,” announced Mac with righteous
indignation, “an I know them ingines.
Really know ’em an’ look after ’em —
not muck about an’ talk big, like them
fellers each side. ’Tain’t goin’ t’ worry
me how them woodchoppers gits on. I’m
givin’ you th’ figures, an’ I can keep on
doin’ it.”
Noiseless rods, plunging with smooth
efficiency up and down their appointed
paths, spotless polished brass, a stainless
floor and an entirely satisfactory flow
of water into the big concrete tank bore
him out. Martin left, more than ever
mystified.
Big Bill received his supervisor’s report
badly. To him it seerr&d, reasonably
enough, that what one set of machinery
could do others precisely similar could
equal. He was not given to probing
figures deeply or he might have reached
Martin’s conclusion that Numbers One
and Three were doing quite well,
and that Number Two’s costs could
only have been kept so low by
magic. As it was, the simple
fact presented itself that all stations
should strive to be as go'od as the best.
“Rubbish! Rubbish! ” he assured
Martin. “If McHenry can do it the
others can. Stir them up until they do.
I’ll expect to see better figures in future.”
But no better figures were forthcoming,
despite the fact that Martin abandoned
his own convictions and “stirred
up” the drivers at Stations One
and Three, paying more than usually
frequent visits to their plants dur-
ing the following six months. They
muttered, and he lost sleep over the
matter, but nothing was discovered except
that comparisons at the end of the period
showed that results from Number Two
were not quite as good as usual, though
still superior to those from the other
pumps.
Confronted by the black scowl of Big
Bill, Martin felt the foundations of his
job quaking. But he could do nothing
more. The mystery might well have re-
mained unsolved for ever had not the
advent of a new licensee at the Wendinnie
Hotel preceded by just a week one of the
g.m.’s infrequent shooting trips.
I AKES to the north had been Big
Bill’s destination and duck his quarry.
In one of his big motors, with a driver
and a couple of cronies, the expedition
had been made as comfortable as money
could make it, but none the less it was
after an exhausting and unsuccessful day
that he arrived at Wendinnie. The car
rolled down to the township from that
unusual direction and into the hotel yard
in the late afternoon.
The Old Man could see the big tank
and smokestack of the pumping
looming over the scrub half a mile away,
and contemplation of it gave him mild
pleasure. In the closer foreground, how-
ever, was a sight less satisfactory. With
pleasing and unusual industry, the hotel
yardman was chopping logs from a big
stack. Big Bill’s first instinct was toward
approval, but when he observed that the
stack consisted of what was obviously
five-foot bush timber, railed to the town
at the company’s cost, for use at the
company’s pumping-station, his eye shone
less benignly.
Irritated by the petty graft, he glanced
along the back fences of Wendinnie’s
only street. In every yard stood a high
pile of logs, and in every case they were
of the roughly uniform length and size
that showed them to be company logs!
He breathed heavily for a moment, and
mentally noted what should be said to
McHenry and Martin on the matter.
Then the prospect of rest and comfort
restored his amiability, and leaving the
driver and his companions to attend to
the car he strode into the friendly bar to
order drinks.
He was, however, apparently fated to
be annoyed. A toe stubbed on some
bulky object which was holding open the
door brought from him a flow of
anguished expletives. Then he looked at
the object. It was an L. 44 CkS. piston,
as used in the engines of the Open Reef
pumping plants! It was new! Language
failed, and he made inarticulate noises,
but with a self-restraint born of many
board meetings he ordered drinks for the
party and commenced to sip his own. It
was amazing that so economically run a
station as Number Two could show such
glaring evidence of wholesale waste. But
the liquor was soothing, and he aban-
doned himself to calm enjoyment of it
until, turning to assume a more comfort-
able attitude with one elbow on the
counter, he noticed another occupant of
the customers’ side of the bar.
Stretched on a form against the wall,
the Wendinnie Hotel’s other patron was
asleep with his mouth open. He appeared
to be as stiffly rigid as the boards on
which he lay, and the only evidence that
he was alive was the gentle swaying of
his moustache in the fiery draughts that
swirled to and fro through it. He was
none other than the model pump-driver,
the faithful and flawless McHenry! Big
Bill blinked rapidly.
“Tell me,” he pleaded of the man
behind the bar in stifled tones filled with
deadly menace, “tell me, will you, who is
that man? I might be mistaken.”
“Bloke from th’ pumping-station,” said
his host cheerfully. “Haven’t bin here
long enough t’ know much about him
meself, but I’ll chuck him out if y’ like.
They told me when I took over that he
was a real damn’ nuisance, alius in argu-
ments an’ stayin’ on th’ burst for as much
as a fortnight at a time.”
“Fortnight at a time! ” echoed Big Bill
breathlessly. “Do you know the fireman?
Where’s the fireman?”
“Corn t’ th’ Lakes shootin’ fer a few
days,” said the proprietor. “Great jobs
these blokes’ve got.”
“Great jobs! ” said the g.m. in a sort of
subdued roar. “Great jobs they had, you
mean.”
The whole meaning of the calamity had
gradually impressed itself on the Old
Man’s brain. The plant should be run-
ning now. God alone knew how long it
had been idle! If the tank emptied, the
pumps at Number Three would draw air,
and it would take days to get the system
running again. He pounced on McHenry
and shook him until he rattled.
“G’way!” muttered the enginedriver
drowsily. “G’tout! Wenni wakeup I’ll
rip y’r liver out.”
“Water! ” bellowed Big Bill. “Dammit,
man, the pumps! The water, you fool!”
“Warrer’ll be orright,” mumbled Mc-
Henry. “Warrer’Jl fin’ hish own level.
Alius does,”
With an air of finality, he settled back
to comfortable slumber. Big Bill gazed
at him wordlessly. Then he dived through
the door, past his wondering cronies and
into the car. He headed Tor Number Two
pumping-station with the accelerator on
the floorboards, but despite his haste he
noticed that the fence around the shack
next door carried sliprails made of L.P.41
connecting-rods, and that a place three
houses down was using L.J.78 cylinder-
liners for an extension for its wash-
house chimney. There would be time
to kill McHenry later, however. He
stamped viciously and ineffectively on the
already fully-depressed throttle-pedal.
SILENT engines and spotless metal
greeted him in the plant engine-
room. What was worse, almost cold fires.
There was no steam, and it was better
that the plant should be held up than that
he, the g.m, and a national benefactor,
should descend to urging five-foot bush
timber through the fire doors.
It was the last straw. The situation was
hopeless. He sat wearily on a box and
clutched his head in his hands. Then the
look of anguish on his face slowly
changed to one of wonder and doubt.
Either he was going mad or he could
hear, faintly but distinctly, the sound of
gushing, falling water!
Heedless of the warning of his hammer-
ing heart, he galloped to the tank and
swarmed up the ladder to its brim, thirty
feet above ground. It was three parts
full, and out of the big duct above it
water was, despite the silent engines, flow-
ing freely!
“Well, I’ll be damned!” said the g.m.
Slowly and reflectively he drove back
to the pub. Siphonage! Siphonage! No
need for a pumping-station at all! Never
had been! What a bloomer! No wonder
McHenry, who had been in charge for
twenty-five years, showed low costs! No
wonder he gave away firewood, and re-
quisitioned for spares and gave them
away too! He’d had to, to have any
costs at all.
Big Bill’s lips tightened as he antici-
pated the abrupt cessation of the “good
jobs” held by driver and fireman. Then
they loosened again as his thoughts turned
to what the directors and the Press would
say when Pump Plant Number Two was
closed as superfluous after twenty-five
years in action!
His memory roved, trying to locate the
consultant or subordinate of early times
who could be held responsible. He was
distressed to find that, particularly to
directors and the Press, it would most
likely seem that he was responsible!
The point of view gave him further
food for thought.
{Continued foot of next column.)
Maloney's Cockatoo.
PERCY LEASON and "RIVERINA" (Cecil H. Winter) 1930
‘Twas in a river bend I met, not far from Byanbye,
An ancient man of bitter »peech, with murder in bis eye.
His gaze was lifted heavenward, where in the taller tree*
A band of drowty cockatoos were perched in noonday ease.
“I’d like to choke the cows," he said, “their flamin’ necks to screw!
There ain’t a curse on all the earth to beat a cockatoo.’’
The hush of noon was on the land. The stream that wimpled there
Was murmuring a soft refrain; the balmy, scented air
Might well all angry thoughts assuage, dispel all passions wild—
Alas, the hour impressed him not! His eloquence defiled
The sylvan solitude; until at last from him I drew
The reason why he had a curse for ev*ry cockatoo.
"Just forty year ago it was I had a slap-up team
Of bullicks cartin’ stores an* wool along the Darling stream*
Yes; four-an-’twenty of the best. I was a big gun then—r
Could fill ’em up, an* apeak me turn with any class o* men.
I was a cove as gained respect wherever bullicks grew—
Until my life was blighted by a fiamin* cockatoo.
"I d loaded up at Bogaduk with stores from off the boat;
Then, feelin* sort o’ parched inside, I thought I’d damp my throat.
I left the bullicks on the road, contented in their yokes;
But in Maloney s bar I met a lot o’ station blokes,
Old. friends o* mine. The drinks went round the way they useter
do—
I never thought no mischief from Maloney’s cockatoo.
“He was an edjercate'd bird—you know the sort maybe—
Could sing an’ whistle, curse an’ swear the same as you an’ me.
Well , as we downed our drinks an* laughed an’ talked the time away,
A lady friend o’ mine come in, excited like, to say:
Hey, Bill, you blanky fool,’ she says, ‘come out, an" lively, too—
Your blanky team's been started by that flamin' cockatoo!’
" 'Struth, she was right I Along the track through clouds of dust
they showed,
With Cocky on the waggon perched. We sprinted down the road;
An drawin’ nearer heard him shout, like one who knew the trade:
Gee-orf, you crimson .crocodiles I' The cranky cows obeyed!
Gee-orfl'. . . . . While we was still behind We seen the leaders slew
Right over to the river bank—drove by that cockatoo!
" ‘Gee-orfl’ ■ The waggon with a rush went rollin’ down the bank.
Draggin’ me bullicks in with it; beneath the stream it sank;
I watched the bubbles risin’, as ; l leaned against a post,
Where Spot an’ Brindle an! the rest was givin' up the ghost.
One livin’ thing alone escaped. High in the air'it flew
In screechin' triumph to the pub—Maloney’s cockatoo I
“That broke me ‘eartl" The ancient raised his eyes aloft once more;
And in the mellow afternoon blood-curdling oaths he swore.
The sweet blush blooms were round his feet—he took no heed of
these.
But wished that he had wings to reach "them hlankers in the trees."
So from that sylvan solitude 1 turned and bade atiieu
To one whose life was blighted by a soulless cockatoo I
RiVERINA.


At the hotel Big Bill’s cronies were in
the yard, curiously awaiting his return.
In the bar McHenry’s slumber remained
profound, and the new proprietor was
cleaning glasses and regarding his supine
torm with considerable interest.
Heard a crack and thought something
had come apart at the plant. All O.K.
up there, though,” the g.m. explained his
absence to his friends.
There was something not quite satis-
actory about it, but they had little time
m which to think it over, for Big Bill was
m a fever of activity. He’d made up his
mind to drive on to Goalong for the
ni ®bt- h° te l there was better. It was
ff tter town. They would have to hurry
t they were to be there for dinner. He
mi u orders at the driver, piled them
,° , car ’ and before they knew just
nat had happened they were on their
ay. Big Bill was eloquent in the dis-
day 10n P * ans or more shooting next
2 O McHenry and his fireman con-
Tu to draw award rate s. They
mill th f en B ines only when phone
Wp ? eS J r °™ towns on either side
0 0 the effect that official parties were
maH« e -* Way ’ or wilen a general stoppage
vw necessary. The inhabitants of
wood Went on receiving free fire-
stat?nn and spite of il cost s at the
at NiLT" 6 substantially lower than those
not k™ bei \° ne and Three - Mar tin did
the nT7S hy ’ and stopped worrying, as
abounf R a t n A?°tr longer P la g ued him
cussfiL ?u Ut , McHenr y> after some dis-
hotel fph ll h f *t e new Proprietor of the
so carefni that 5® n t ed no lon g er be quite
member of’ and when the g- m - was a
was f ? I lSltmg official party (which
Hfff i dom ) he treated Big Bill with a
We i ess respect than tha , worth , ho ht
Empire-builder. Bene^^or
RETUEN OF THE HUNTER
FRANK DALBY
DAVISON
TUG TRELOAR was skinning the
big half-breed dingo he had just
shot. His sharp little knife glinted
brightly in the moonlight as he lifted
it after the first opening slit along the
belly and turned the limp warm carcass
to get at the inside slit up the hind leg.
He screwed round on his heel once to
pat Topsy, the little black kelpie bitch,
straining at the end of the length of
greenhide by which she was tethered to
the butt of a scrubby sandalwood. She
had been tied there alone for three hours,
an innocent lure, while Tug lay about
forty paces off in the deep shadow of a
solitary brigalow, waiting for a shot at
the wild dog. Now she was straining
toward him, whining her delight at his
return, almost squealing her ecstasy. She
could just manage to push him in the
small of his back with her muzzle.
A brief grin cracked Tug’s features as
he leaned back to pat her, then, with
lips closed, he turned again to getting the
pelt off the dog. He pulled the first hind
leg free, taking care to retain the paw,
for beside the bounty money the skin
would make a trophy worth having. He
slewed the body round to get at the
other hind leg. He was deeply and subtly
excited, triumphant, and was breathing
through his nose with a faint whistling
sound.
A lot of Tug’s life centred round this
moment. He didn’t realise this detachedly,
for he was not very aware of his pro-
cesses, but as he worked his mind was
busy with images, retrospective and
anticipatory ; Tug Treloar, sniper, lying
m a forward position, waiting to pick off
a man; Tug lying in the night, waiting
to pick off a calf-murdering dog; Tug
Treloar’s name attached to the pelt, on
view in Linklater’s store ; Tug using the
bounty money to buy his wife the pony
and sulky she had been wanting ; and,
nearer and more immediately poignant
than any of these, .Tug arriving back at
the camp in a very short while to exhibit
the scalp to Bonny, in triumph.
There was an image of Tug that was
temporarily forgotten in the excitement
of the moment. This was the Tug who
sometimes regretted having married, who
was irked by the plodding sameness of a
settler’s life, who would have liked to be
away buffalo-shooting in the Northern
Territory, or, better still, gold-seeking in
the mountains of New Guinea. This
image of Tug had faded from mind when
the dog-hunt began. Tug craftily studying
the habits of a wild dog that half a
dozen men were after. Tug setting a lure,
Tug lying in wait, his trusty rifle pushed
forward and ready, all linked up to Tug,
the man of daring, worming his way out
UNK WHITE 1934
“A two-quid rise! Aren't you opening your mouth pretty wide?"
"Not at all. The boss'll give it to me to keep my mouth shut."
alone into no-man’s-land to establish a
sniping post. This Tug was a compensa-
tion for Tug grubbing trees and digging
post-holes on the selection. In specula-
tive enterprise Tug had found temporary
forgetfulness of the might-have-been.
Lying in the shade of the brigalow, his
eyes on Topsy, he was aware, of course,
that the wild dog mightn’t answer the
lure, even that his reading of tracks
might have been faulty, and that he might
be waiting on the wrong dog. The first
doubt was set at rest when he saw Topsy
prick her ears and, looking where she
was looking, saw a shadow stir among
the shadows in the scrub beyond the
moonlit stretch of open ground. Both
doubts were set at rest when the dog,
evidently suspicious, came slowly into
the open and stood looking at Topsy
where she was crouched, whining softly.
With curbed excitement Tug tasted again
the climax of craft and patience, the
planned kill. His forefinger closed slowly
and steadily on the trigger, and when the
report of his rifle shattered the quiet of
the night, echoing and re-echoing, he had
no doubt but that his aim had been true,.
The wild dog raised his head as if he
didn’t know what had happened, didn’t
know he had been mortally hit. He
walked a pace or two toward Topsy,
then his legs crumpled under him and he
lay quite still.
Tug hurried forward, rifle in hand,
oblivious at first to Topsy’s joyful bark-
ing at his return, and stooped to examine
the body, while feeling for his scalping
knife. It was the Black Dingo, all right,
and by gosh, he was a size! He was a
beauty! Tug dropped on one knee, put
down his rifle, and was soon busy with
the bright little blade. His haste to get
the hide off was conditioned only by the
need of making a clean and careful job.
He even forgot the pipe which had been
waiting in his pocket, ready filled with
tobacco, this last two hours.
In mind tie was doing half a dozen
other things besides skinning the dingo ;
he was being nonchalantly in evidence
near Linklater’s store the day the skin
was put on exhibition; he was modestly
receiving the bounty money from the
hands of the secretary of the Farmers
and Settlers’ Association ; he was hand-
ing the money over to Charlie Munro in
return for that pony and sulky Charlie
had for sale; he was presenting the
pony and sulky to Bonny, who was
appropriately melting with gratitude ; but
most of all, because it was nearest in
point of time, a first instalment of the
rewards of success, he was stumping back
to the camp to cast the pelt at Bonny’s
feet with a triumphant flourish.
That fifteen pounds should be offered
for the pelt of the half-breed dingo who
had been making a nuisance of himself
in the neighborhood fitted in with the
details of Tug Treloar’s life as no other
happening within the bounds of likeli-
hood could have. In the first place it
gave him fair cause to abandon tem-
porarily the humdrum of selection life
for the thrill of the hunt; not that Tug
was averse to exertion; on the contrary,
he was capable of great and sustained
effort, but he liked it with a sporting
content. Then again, because of his
reputation as a sharpshooter, the reward
offered was something of a personal
challenge. A number of men would be
after the dog. Tug valued his reputation,
the legend that had gathered about his
name since his return from the war. This
was a time to take practical thought of it.
As well, there was the matter of the
pony and sulky that Bonny wanted.
When once Bonny got an idea into her
head the House of Parliament couldn’t
get it out again. She had taken a notion
that she wanted a sulky to drive about
in and visit her friends. She had made
up her mind that the Treloars weren’t
well enough regarded by the right sort
of people, and she felt that this could be
remedied if she could drive into the town-
ship in an appropriate vehicle, if she
could take the baby of an afternoon and
drive off to pay calls.
There was only the buckboard on the
selection and Tug had pretty well
brought that to ruin in the early months
of settlement, hauling heavy loads of
fence-posts, fence wire, timber and
galvanised-iron. Even if she wanted to
use it, it would happen as often as not
that the two horses-of-all-work would
either be busy on the selection or having
a much-needed rest. She wanted a pony
and sulky. Tug had no money to get her
what she wanted. All the money he had
had left after the rather extravagant
wedding Bonny had insisted on, all he
could borrow, and all the tick he could
raise with the big store in Wilgatown,
was laid out in the selection.
Bonny had a way of harping about
things she wanted, as if, like the woman
in Scripture, she would be heard for her
much speaking. She didn’t directly com-
plain to Tug, but if she decided that there
was an unreasonable lack in her life she
let her needs be known frequently. Bonny
had her funny ways. She had a trick of
dramatising ideas, with herself in the*
leading role. Sometimes she would make
a flying attack on the perpetual house-
hold disorder in which the Treloars lived.
She would wash up directly after meals,
have a vigorous sweep-out, pushing rub-
bish out of sight as she went, scrub the
kid’s face red with a damp cloth and
then establish herself on the verandah
with a woman’s journal. She was Good
Housekeeping. At another time, on an
inspiration picked up from some other
woman, she would subject the child to
a daily dose of some blood-purifying
beverage—for three or four days. That
was Maternal Solicitude. In the matter of
driving about in a sulky she was desirous
of dramatising herself as Gentility.
Tug was in a difficult position in
respect of Bonny’s passion for a pony
and sulky. As he said himself, he’d give
her his hide for a bedside mat if she
wanted it, but he couldn’t raise the price
of a pony and sulky. It was only their
second year on the selection. The season
was winter —dry. They had only eight
cows milking, and being milked only once
a day at that. The bill at the Wilgatown
store was creeping up ; they were still
living partly on tick. Bonny ought to
understand that.
(Continued overleaf.)
BULLOCKY.
By Judith Wright.
Beside his heavy-shouldered team,
thirsty with drought and chilled with rain,
he weathered all the striding years
till they ran widdershins in his brain;
till the long solitary tracks,
etched deeper with each lurching load,
were populous before his eyes,
and fiends and angels used his road.
All the long straining journey grew
a mad apocalyptic dream,
and he old Mo ses; and the slaves
his suffering and stubborn team.
Then in his evening camp beneath
the half-light pillars of the trees
he filled the steepled cone of night
with shouted prayers and prophecies,
while past the campfire’s crimson ring
the star-struck darkness cupped him round,
and centuries of cattlebells
rang with their sweet uneasy sound.
Grass is across the wagon tracks,
and plough strikes bone beneath the grass,
and vineyards cover all the slopes
where the dead teams were used to pass.
O vine grow close upon that bone
and hold it with your rooted hand.
The prophet Moses feeds the grape
and fruitful is the Promised Land.


Bonny had applied for help to her
widowed mother, who ran a hand-laundry
in Wilgatown ; but Mrs. Meadows, who
had three younger children coming along,
and who, in any case, had been generous
to the young settlers, had replied that
the matter troubling Bonny was one for
Tug to contend with. Temporarily Bonny
was quietened, and for a while consoled
herself with the image of herself as the
Heroic Wife of the Struggling Pioneer —
the Woman of the West. That concept
had entertained and sustained her during
the first year or so on the selection, but
it was now rather worn with use. It was
time to be making progress, so presently
she resumed talk of the pony and sulky.
She affirmed that the Treloars were
regarded as riff-raff, and that something
must be done to correct the impression.
Her statement didn’t quite accord with
the truth. The Treloars were respectfully
and even affectionately regarded by their
neighbors. It was just that they had a
gift for unconscious humor. Sometimes
something Bonny herself said would raise
a smile. She would join in the smile at
the moment, and brood over it after-
wards.
Experience had taught Tug that patience
paid in dealing with Bonny, and he
generally kept the fact in mind; but
occasionally the natural man took control
of his behavior and he would begin a
protest in pleading vein, “Now look,
Bonny. For gawd’s sake can’t you
see . . .?” This invariably worked up to
a scene in which Tug would be swearing
at the top of his voice, while Bonny
threw things at him and the baby yowled
with fright at the noise.
Cessation of hostilities would be
marked by Bonny addressing him as
“Tug, darling,” in a voice like cream and
with a smile like a dewy morning, but
this would be only after an interval of
three or four days, during which he was
completely cut off from domestic com-
munion. It is possible that the root of
the trouble on these occasions was deeper
than either of the participants suspected ;
that it had less to do with the ostensible
cause of dispute than with the inherent
capacity of the sexes for disappointing
each other. But at all events these times
were very trying for Tug, especially with
his ears ringing with the recollection of
the dreadful language he had used.
During the currency of the trouble Bonny
would give an effective dramatisation of
Offended Delicacy, Protective Mother-
hood and Love Withdrawn.
On all counts the fifteen pounds bounty
looked like a way out for Tug, so after
a word with Bonny he arranged with a
neighbor to take over his milking cows
for a week or so while he went after the
warrigah In broaching the matter to
Bonny, in calculating the prospects of
success, he had been as careful of his
words as in the days when he had dis-
cussed with his superiors the prospects
of a proposed sniping post. He was
eager for the attempt, but the result of
unpropitious circumstances was not going
to be laid at his door in case of failure.
“A man might fluke it, you know.” He
was thinking of the range of country the
wild dog had to hunt and hide in, as well
as of the other men who would be on
his track.
Bonny seized on the idea and regarded
the dingo as being as good as dead. Her
Tug was going to get him! Bonny loved
a little notoriety. Not least of Tug]s
charms for her at the time of their
courtship had been that he was a local
hero, with something about him in almost
every issue of the Wilgatown papers. It
was going to be that way again. The
depradations—as the “Bugle” and the
“Argus” called them —of the Black Dingo
had become something of a local sensa-
tion, When Tug shot him there would
be a piece about it in the paper. The
name Treloar would once again be in
men’s mouths, for there is something in
most men that applauds the prowess of
the hunter. Bonny was all for that!
Tug told her that if he was successful
he would buy her the pony and sulky
Charlie Munro had for sale. Bonny was
so sure of his success that she would have
liked to send word to Charlie that they
would take the sulky, but she didn’t dare
suggest that course to Tug.
Tug had iritended to go hunting the
Black Dingo by himself ; a single man,
unhampered, getting meals on the strength
of the sporting sympathy of the settlers,
would have a much better chance than a
man encumbered with a full camp ; but
Bonny assumed that she would be going
with him. She had seized on the enter-
prise with such eagerness, and was so
confident of his success, that he hadn’t
the heart to mention that his idea had
been for her to wait at home. So the
buckboard, loaded with camp gear, left
the Treloar selection with Tug, Bonny,
the baby and Topsy on the driving seat.
The half-breed, possibly the result of
someone’s misguided experiment in dog-
breeding, had appeared on the new settle-
ment a few months previously. He caused
a public stir. It began when Bert Gifford
came across a mangled calf in his pad-
dock with outsize dog-tracks near by.
For a dingo to tackle a stray calf was
nothing strange ; it happened fairly often
in time of drought when the wild dogs
were driven in from the back country,
but this had happened in a good season.
No one noticed that until another settler,
and then another, reported similar loss.
It was evident then that the newcomer
was something out of the ordinary. He
was daring, too ; he killed a calf on
Paddy O’Shaughnessy’s place within a
hundred yards of the house, and when
the two homestead dogs went for him
he fought them off, sending one howling
back to the house with a piece torn out
of his shoulder.
Then people began to report having
seen the dog by daylight, sneaking across
the paddocks, lurking on the edge of
the scrubs, a dark dog—from which he
got his name, the Black Dingo—and as
big as a mastiff, some of them said. It is
doubtful if so many really saw him —
imagination can do a lot with charred
tree-stumps in a half-light; but when old
Dan Crewe, who was snaring on Back
Creek, reported seeing him, it was taken
as authentic. “Dark brown, with yellowy
underparts,” said Dan, “and a fair bit
bigger than an ordinary dingo,”
Dan had come upon him just as he
hooked himself in one of Dan’s wallaby
snares. “It took him about two-twos to
bust his way out,” Dan said. “It’ll make
him cunninger than ever.” The wild dog
was cunning, all right; it was found
useless to poison the calves he left partly
eaten. He never returned to his kill.
The upshot was that the newly-formed
Farmers and Settlers’ Association decided
that its first official act would be a
spacious one ; it would offer ten pounds
reward for the dark dog’s hide. To this
the president, Harry Griffith, who had
his eye on a seat in the Wilgatown
Council, representing the new settlement
district, added the sum of five pounds
from his own pocket. It was reckoned
that the cash reward would induce pro-
fessional scalpers to carry a rifle at all
times, and also induce sporting settlers,
or their growing sons, to take an interest
in the matter.
It took Tug five days to get on to
the tracks of the Black Dingo. He studied
the record of his kills, the condition of
the waterholes and dams in the district,
and the distribution of cover, the lay of
the big scrubs. When he heard that a
kill had been made the night before on
Christmas Creek, he drove immediately
to the adjoining watershed. Tommy’ B
Creek, and made camp there. He picked
up the tracks of a large dog in the belah
scrub on the ridge dividing the two
creeks, found identical tracks in the mud
of the two waterholes on Tommy’ B
Creek, and reckoned he was getting close
to success.
After he had set up camp he drove
home for some old wire-netting, with
which he closed off one of the holes.
There was a chance that this would scare
the dog away from the area, but the two
holes were four miles apart, so the chance
was worth taking. Next day he found
fresh tracks at the unfenced waterhole,
and after some trouble picked up the
direction from which the dog came by
night from his shelter in the scrub.
That the moon was close to full had
entered into Tug’s calculations from the
CATS ON THE ROOF
BY EDWARD HARRINGTON.
Drawings Rv TedScorfield.
[For The Bulletin.!
The street where I board is a forest of flats.
And it’s cursed by a plague of most insolent cats.
As soon as the sun has sunk down in the west
They all sally forth on an amorous quest.
A tomcat will call from the top of a roof,
A second will answer from somewhere aloof;
Then others arrive, and the concert begins
As they slither and slide on the tiles and the tins.
Cals on the rodf.
Cals on the roof.
Amorous, clamorous
Cals on the roof.
While ones and yellow ones,
Black-as-Othello ones.
Oh, the Devil's in league with the cals on the roof.
They talk of the need for our country’s defence.
But it wouldn’t involve a great deal of expense
To put on the market some new sort of bombs
To hurl at the tabs and the turbulent toms
Who gather in numbers that nightly increase
To shatter our slumber and slaughter our peace.
An inventor will surely make plenty of oof
Who can deal with the menace of cats on the roof.
They climb and they clamber, they hiss and they wail.
And they go up and down on the musical scale.
A shy young soprano will .start on a note
While the ardent old tenor is clearing his throat.
Then off they will go on a dainty duet.
And the bass will come in when the tempo is set;
And any young student of sharps and of flats
Can learn quite a lot from a chorus of cats.
Then all of a sudden the tempo will change—
They really possess a most wonderful range,
From alto, contralto, falsetto and bass;
Caruso and Melba are not in the race.
The tenor will rise on a note of his own
And the bass will die off to a horrible moan.
Oh, I doubt if the patience of Job would be proof
’Gainst amorous, clamorous cats on the roof.
A lull may occur when the midnight is past,
And you think you are set for some slumber at last.
But just as you’re dozing, your face to the wall.
The concert will end in a general brawl.
And you’ll turn on your pillow and mentally vow
To kill ev’ry cat that you meet with from now.
Till morning comes in with a dusting of mats.
And another night’s rest has been ruined by cats.
Cals on the roof ,
Cals on the roof.
Amorous, clamorous
Cats on the roof.
While ones and yellow ones,
Black-as-Olhello ones.
Oh, the Devil’s in league with the cals on the roof.
TED SCORFIELD and EDWARD HARRINGTON 1934


start. It had also entered into his calcula-
tions that Topsy could be trusted to draw
attention to herself. He had kept her tied
up during most of the time since they
had left home, so that she was beside
herself with delight when he—carrying
his ri fl e __took her for a walk one even-
ing after tea ; and she was beside herself
with disappointment when he left her
tied to a little dead tree at a lonely spot,
and walked on without her. She was
shrilly vocal about her disappointment,
yapping, whining and straining after his
retreating back, at the end of her tether ;
making a disturbance that would un-
doubtedly be audible to canine ears for
a mile around,-and would as undoubtedly
be recognised as feminine.
Topsy was so incredulous at Tug’s
treachery that when her first excitement
died down she didn’t know what had
become of him. Creeping back to lie
at full length in the shadow of the
brigalow, Tug realised this. Topsy was
looking in all directions. She couldn’t
see him, even at the short distance that
separated them, because of the hum-
mocky ground behind him. Gradually
she settled down, crouched in uneasy,
watchful quiet, emitting just a whine or
two at intervals. That was good. If
she became too quiet it would be easy to
start her off again by snapping a twig,
or by tossing a stick out into the moon-
light, some distance behind her.
Tug raised his rifle to his shoulder
and sighted on a stump about forty yards
away. He had taken the precaution of
whitening the tip of his foresight, but
found that even so it was impossible to
take satisfactory aim from within the
shadows. He wriggled forward until the
muzzle of his rifle, when raised for firing,
protruded a few inches into the moon-
light. That was better.
He lowered the rifle and looked about
him. He had a fine clear range of vision
between where he was lying and the edge
of the scrub from which the Black Dingo
would appear. He memorised the posi-
tion of a couple of cotton bushes and a
small charred stump, black in the moon-
light. It might happen that his first sight
of the warrigal would be after he had
emerged from cover and was standing
still in the open. There must be no con-
fusion at that moment.
Lying in wait, asprawl, his weight on
his elbows, his hands loosely supporting
his rifle, his eyes on the gleam of Topsy’s
coat, his ears pricked, Tug was content.
He thought of the lead he had on other
men who were after the quarry, of the
fresh signs he had seen near by on the
side of the hill. The prospects for success
were fairly good. He took out his pipe,
then remembered himself, and put it
away again. He did so without regret,
rather with pleasure. Lying like this,
with a mild craving for a smoke gnawing
at him, brought back old times.
Watchful waiting reminded him of the
Tug he had been happiest with, sniper
Tug, the Tug he liked most to recall.
For a few seconds his thoughts dwelt on
his life as a selector, then flitted to the
mountains of New Guinea, where Mick
Brannigan and Tom Hollis, old war-time
mates, were gold-seeking, then came back
to himself. In his present enterprise he
felt temporarily compensated for not
being with Mick and Tom,
Aboard-ship, returning to Australia, he
had fixed up with Mick and Tom to go
buffalo-shooting in the Northern Terri-
tory. The price of hides was high. Tug
knew nothing about the game, but from
Mick’s description it sounded fine ; excite-
ment, a gambling chance, some notoriety,
a season of work and daring, and then
a bit of a spree. It looked like retaining
in peace the better part of war ; an orange
without the bitter rind of curtailed liberty,
or the pips of monotony.
Tug had had a fairly spectacular career
in the army, and in some ways demobili-
sation had loomed rather cheerlessly, a
descent from glory. Before the war he
had swung a pick in the ranks of
municipal employees, and he had no
desire to return to that unexciting and
undistinguished pursuit. Buffalo-shooting
looked like a way out, but in the interval
of a visit to his native Wilgatown, before
rejoining his mates for further adventure,
he met Bonny Meadows, and the first
thing he knew he was a simple, hard-
working selector, with a wife and baby.
Bonny in place of a buffalo-hunteFs
life had seemed far more than a fair
exchange until, one day, after about a
year of married life, he happened to see
in the papers a short news-item to the
effect that Messrs. Brannigan and Hollis
had struck it rich on a new field they
had discovered in the interior of New
Guinea. So that was what they were up
to! They hadn’t gone just buffalo-hunt-
ing, but had gone further afield. Tug
felt chagrined. He didn’t care about them
striking it rich ; it was the life he was
thinking about. He couldn’t imagine it,
but he reckoned that tropic forests,
savages and strange rivers stood for some-
thing that would have suited him fine.
He brooded over it while at work on
his selection and at length evolved a plan.
He decided to broach it first to Mrs.
Meadows. If he could win her over he
might manage Bonny with her help. He
put it to Mrs. Meadows one weekend
when, on his especial urging, she came
up from Wilgatown to visit the settlers.
The plan was simple. It was that Mrs.
Meadows should give up the laundry —
of which she must be very weary!—and
B. E. MINNS 1935
"By cri, Mary, you got mouth like rabbit-trap."
“ Don't you try to flatter me, you ol' 'roo!”
come and live on the selection. She and
Bonny could run the selection between
them while Tug went off to seek for gold
in Papua. “There’s money in it. Mother,”
urged Tug. “I might make a fortune for
all of us!” They were sitting together
on the edge of the verandah.
Mrs. Meadows, an intelligent woman
who had accumulated much wisdom in
the course of a hard life, considered the
matter for a moment. When she spoke
there was a look of affection as well as
an ironic gleam in her eye. “Something
sure and steady is best, I think. Tug,”
she said. “You know, there’s the baby
to think of now, as well as Bonny.”
Yes, there was the baby to think of.
Tug had to admit it. As a matter of
RAY WHITING 1934
‘No, Dr. Stiffner, that's not right."
fact there was another baby on its way.
Tug had decided not to mention that.
It was one of the things he had counted
on Mrs. Meadows and Bonny managing
between them when the time came. He
saw, now that Mrs. Meadows had refused
help, that he would have to think of some
other plan.
He hadn’t much time to plan, for as
soon as Mrs. Meadows had gone Bonny
challenged him.
“What was that you and Mother were
talking about on the verandah?” she
asked.
In the face of frontal attack Tug had
to explain.
“The idea!” exclaimed Bonny, after
he had finished.
She thought for a moment, and then,
as if suddenly struck by another aspect
of the matter, looked at him more sharply
than she had ever looked before. “Do
you think I’d be waiting for you when
you came back?” she demanded.
Tug thought these words over as he
went about his work. He had known
Bonny to abuse him roundly, he had seen
her eyes ablaze with wrath and venom,
but never had she spoken as directly as
then, never had her eyes been so cold
and deadly. Her utterance, he realised,
was from the bedrock of her nature.
He brooded. He knew Bonny had him
there. For some reason he couldn’t
determine the knowledge put him in a
secret rage. He was puzzled. He had
never doubted but that he was the captain
of his soul, and yet somehow life had
run a fence round him. He felt angry
and baffled. He couldn’t get it all
straightened out in his thoughts. He felt
like two men instead of the one and
indivisible man he had naturally assumed
himself to be. In his distress he turned
for consolation and relief to dwell upon
the comforting image of the man he
liked most to recall, the man his pride
affirmed as himself; not Tug Treloar
sweeping out the cow-bails, nor Tug
Treloar carrying buckets of poddy-swill,
but Tug Treloar, the lone-hand sniper.
In his imagination he saw himself going
over the top, just before dawn, to his
day of secret deadly work between the
lines. He heard again the muttered
“So-long” and “Good luck, Tug,” of
less enterprising men. He tasted again
the little drama of his return after night-
fall. His night of undisturbed rest was
sacrosanct. No irritating, trifling night
watch in his life. He recalled with satis-
faction the way other men looked at his
rifle and at the two decorations on his
breast, the way his superiors treated him
practically as an equal when questioning
him and discussing his plans with him,
the way he was pointed out by his officers
to visiting officers from brigade and
divisional headquarters.
Lying out in front it had been his habit
to go over these things ruminatively,
chewing a quiet cud of satisfaction. He
had never been able quite to make ouL
how the obscure Tug he remembered in
civil life had come to be a famous chap,
didn’t know that in very large measure,
it was due to his lack of imagination.
There was a war on, and when Tug
had reason to suppose that a man had
dropped following the crack of his rifle
he was scarcely more impressed than if
it had been a kangaroo, just a little more
elated. Neither did anything serious
happen to his imagination when he
thought of being hit himself. He hadn’t
the nervous mechanism to be moved by
anything he hadn’t actually experienced,
and not even the sight of other men
laid put could make good the lack. Some
fellows got wounded or killed. Tough
luck! Getting knocked was something
you avoided if you could, but otherwise
it was just being knocked! His imagina-
tion couldn’t effectively distinguish
between being struck by a flying lump of
shell or a muddy football. His thoughts
couldn’t encompass the idea of his own
non-existence. At twenty-eight, power-
fully and actively built, with a flawless
nervous system and a body as hard as
the trunk of a gum-tree, Tug was well
fitted for his trade.
His rewards for skill and daring were
garnered not only in the firing-line. Back
in billets he was granted small indul-
gences, such as being excused fatigue
duties, a freedom he valued highly. Then
he had the fun of showing himself at
the different estaminets, where he was
treated by other men with a touch of
deference, like a successful boxer or a
prominent rough-rider. He liked the
mademoiselles, too, especially the kind
who didn’t expect a lot of beating about
the bush. Tres bon! Tug had a lot of
good things to chew over while lying in
watch for the enemy to betray himself.
It happened that Tug wqs the first
returned soldier to reach his native
Wilgatown. He immediately received an
official call from the mayor at his home,
accompanied by compositor-reporters
from the rival papers, the “Bugle” and
the “Argus,” and by an amateur, but
very zealous, photographer. For a couple
of weeks he was feted and feasted, made
free of the pubs, stared at in the street,
engaged in conversation by peqple who
wouldn’t ordinarily have noticed his
existence, and written up in the Press.
It was the first time Tug had seen
himself referred to in print, and it sur-
prised him to discover what an interest-
ing life he had lived. What a different
light fell on his schooldays when an old
teacher at whom he had once thrown
his slate recalled him as a “high-spirited
lad”! Even the job his father had forced
him into in his indolent teens, driving a
cart for old Pentwhistle the butcher,
looked different when the “Bugle” put it
that he “had accepted a position with
Pentwhistle and Sons.” Best of all Tug
liked the way the Press ended up by
reporting his intention to “engage in
buffalo-hunting in the Northern Terri-
tory, a hazardous but lucrative career for
which his prowess with a rifle and taste
for daring exploits mark him out as
eminently fitted.” This was evidence for
all men to see that Tug, who was now a
conspicuous figure in the streets of the
town, who had found himself in war,
was not going to lose himself in dullness
and drab anonymity.
While yet awaiting word from Mick,
appointing a rendezvous from which the
three mates would set forth, while yet
he supped on fame. Tug suddenly became
(Continued overleaf.)


FATHER CLEARS OUT
BY JAMES HACKSTON
EVERY now and then Father used
to go on the warpath about some-
thing or other, but mostly about
Mother’s mismanagement. These
storms always ended with Father clear-
ing out again—not that he ever went,
for he contrived to pack up with such
slow care, to be so long preparing to
depart, that it was always too late for
him to get away on that day, and so,
in the circumstances, he had to put off
“leaving” us until next day, and by that
time the squall had passed over.
If he did not manage it this way he
used to fall back on putting so much
heavy stuff in his trunk that he couldn’t
carry it—which meant waiting for a cart
to call for it. In this case, of course,
the cart never called.
We always knew when Father’s next
squall was approaching; the symptoms
were the same. He’d be restless and begin
to forage among things -household
accounts for preference.
Of course, Mother gave him any
amount of material to feed on. Where
money and accounts were concerned she
was the greatest messer living. Her
affairs were always in a muddle, but
maybe the fact that she received money
in odd amounts and at odd times helped
her to get in a muddle and remain in a
muddle. And another thing, too, she
never bothered about getting proper re-
ceipts, and when she did get them man-
aged to lose them more often than not,
which, one way or another, led to trouble.
But she had been through so many
upsets, weathered so many of Father’s
violent temperamental scenes that they
were to her now like water on a duck’s
back ; and when a disturbance was raging
she used to whistle through it; a quiet,
gentle, subtle whistling. Hers was
a steady, monotonous whistle without
passion or movement; a cool whistle ;
an indifferent whistle that refused to be
routed or stopped.
This particular tornado blew up in
quite a .simple manner. Father was
mooching about the place and, for some-
thing better to do, began to smooth «rut
the ruffles in the heavy red cloth that
covered the table, and, rubbing his big
flat palm over the cloth, he felt some-
thing beneath it Mother’s store
accounts, and all in a frightful mess, too.
Naturally, he lifted the cloth.
And so it happened in due course—or
in a short while —and according to
schedule, or precedent all our own, our
little kipsy breathed a heavy stillness like
that leaden hush that hangs over tree and
earth before a storm breaks; a pressing
stillness; a sense of waiting as the earth
lies hushed and expectant before the first
rumble of thunder claims the sky. And
then there was a rustling as of leaves
swirling about; a crinkling and crackling
—Father excitedly fingering the accounts
and pages of figures he had written down.
Then the first clap of Father’s thunder
claimed us and the storm was on.
“One hundred and seventy-six pounds
fourteen shillings and threepence half-
penny!” he thundered.
“One hundred and seventy-six fiddle-
sticks!” Mother flashed.
“But here it is in black and white !’’
“Fiddlesticks in black and white!”
Mother clapped.
Father’s voice rumbled. “If you paid
these amounts where are the receipts?
Here are the figures, and figures do not
lie-e-e-e.”
And then Mother began her whistling.
“Yes, you can whistle, my fine lady ;
hut that won’t get you out of it. No!
By God, it won’t! We are going to
thrash this thing out to a finish this time.”
He waved the accounts in the air,
“What a millstone to hang round a man’s
neck! What an incubus! What a load
for a man to carry! The injustice of it!
The wickedness of it! The deceit of it
all! The iniquity of it! The cruelty
of it! One hundred and seventy-six
pounds fourteen shillings and”
“Threepence halfpenny,” said Mother,
breaking in on her whistling.
He threw the accounts on to the table
and banged it with his hard fist, and all
the accounts and columns of figures flew
up off the table like birds suddenly
scared from a cherry orchard ; and, as
birds do, fluttered back again.
He gave the table another mighty
wallop, and the papers again took flight.
“One hundred and seventy-six pounds
fourteen shillings and threepence
half”
“Penny,” said Mother in between notes.
He now beat a furious fusillade of
blows on the jumping table, with Mother
accompanying him with her old defensive
non-stop rendering of the sweet strains
of her favorite, “Annie Laurie.”
He began to walk round and round
the table and his feet beat a shuffling
tattoo as he padded, his braces loose and
flying behind him, his hair on end, his
face red, while Mother’s pursed-up lips
still gave out the same sweet refrain of
the everlasting “Annie Laurie” as she
dusted things on the mantelpiece, moved
them unnecessarily, put them back again
where they had first been, dusted them a
second time and then a third time, and
moved them again with slow, quiet move-
ments, her tread light and soft, her face
a mask, her marathon whistling perform-
ance still unbroken.
The storekeeper! He’d see to him!
Yes, he’d see that things were righted
upon his Sam he would; he’d see that
justice be done; that his affairs were
properly adjusted and a full receipt re-
ceived for all the money he had given
her to pay him —if she had paid the
money to him. And if the bills had not
been paid, as the accounts showed— well
he’d want to know where the money had*
gone, where it was hidden.
Yes, that was so; hidden! Hah! a
private, secret hoard! My word, a nice
little stocking tucked away, eh? A little
fortune stacked away somewhere?
Fie began to tip out drawers, dig into
jars, ransack shelves and corners, look
behind pictures, first one room and then
the other, throwing things about the
house, and getting redder and madder-
looking while the sweet strains of the
same perpetual “Annie Laurie” still
floated through the stormy air.
Not finding the hidden hoard he picked
up the accounts and lists of figures in
handfuls and threw them at the rafters,
fed them to space, and they came floating
down like autumn leaves, gracefully, per-
forming gentle spirals; floating down
softly, quietly, soothingly, putting to
shame the turbulent atmosphere of our
home.
Having performed this operation, he
adjourned to the backyard and informed
the sky of the great and lasting wrong
that had been done him, his hands held
high as if in supplication, calling out his
plaint, the echoes speeding far over the
ranges, and away, and into the infinite.
And now the stormy first part of the
performance was over, the heavy
drama ended, the comedy to come.
SYD MILLER 1935
“Your husband , Mrs. Tyke ?”
“Oh, no —just a friend .”


Father now, according to specifications,
was about to “clear out” ; his usual well-
studied packing-up act was on.
Mother and I generally watched this
part of the show from the kitchen
window, and Father knew it, but always
pretended not to be aware of it.
We were now to see a change come over
him, and see the fire and the tempest gone,
the threats gone, the ranting and the anger
gone; see a hurt, silent, suffering gentle-
man, superior, aloof, distant, patronising,
haughty and yet well-mannered, quiet and
yet not weak, cross but not vulgar or
commonly angry; see him pass us by
coldly but courteously, speak to us only
when it was absolutely necessary, and
then for no longer than he could possibly
suffer us; watch him walk with steps
now staid and dignified—no shuffling—
even strides that denoted breeding and
not the quick, mad rush of the com-
moner ; and his braces properly adjusted ;
eyebrows raised, modulated voice—every
syllable attended to ; chin high, but not
stuck out like an offensive-looking
person; poise, aplomb, deportment,
blood, breeding, every inch of him, lock,
stock and barrel —Father “clearing out”
from his impossible family.
Entering the house, and oblivious, of
course, to our horrid presence, he dragged
his old yellow tin trunk out from beneath
the bed and carried it past us with a lofty
air.
He now placed the trunk plumb in
the centre of our big bare backyard so
that it, too, would not come in contact
with us any more than was absolutely
necessary.
Having placed it in its solitary
position he grudgingly entered our odious
house again and collected his two big
books on metallurgy and placed them
with rare care in the left-hand side of
the trunk, on top of each other.
Then he brought the book on sheep-
raising he had bought to become a squatter
and placed it, also with consummate
care, on top of the metallurgy books.
This done, he stared at the three books
as if in deep thought, and then took the
three books out again, read their title
pages and put them back again ;■ but this
time on the right side of the trunk with
the sheep book not on top of the metal-
lurgy books but beneath them.
Next, walking into the house of the
enemy as if it hurt him, he collected
his old railway timetable (years out of
date), and stood pretending to read the
time some train he was not going to catch
went.
Then he adjourned to the backyard
with it, reading the windmill advertise-
ment on the inside back-cover as he went.
Finished with the windmill, he put the
book in his hip-pocket for further refer-
ence, and Mother, watching him from
the kitchen window, said that she was
pleased he was going to a place where
there would be water.
Now he collected his chemistry books
and, retiring to his aloof position by the
old trunk, became suddenly interested in
chemistry all over again, and took some
time'off from his packing to put in a bit
of study, and Mother made the remark
that it was foolish of him to read them ;
that he should keep them to break the
monotony of the long journey that was
ahead of him.
Returning once more to his former
domicile, he took down his favorite Pick-
wick and, returning to his base, could
not resist the temptation to read a couple
of pages, chuckling openly but sedately
as he did so. This was to show Mother
watching him, that “leaving” her was not
putting him out one jot; and she said
that it was wonderful how he could stop
to enjoy Pickwick with a debt like a mill-
stone hanging round his neck and while
in the very act of leaving home for ever.
Father collected all the rest of his
stuff that was in the house in one lot, not
forgetting the photograph of himself that
he had signed for Mother “With love
from Walter,” and left never to darken
our door again. These he packed, all
except the photograph ; this he pitched
away to prove how much he hated the
words that were written on it —but threw
it away with a cleverness (born of much
practice) that would land it face up with
the picture not soiled.
As Mother said: “Been thrown away
dozens of times —and always guaranteed
to land face up.”
After this clever bit of work he brought
all his chemicals and valuable inventions
together and stacked them in one heap—
a man always “called” for these every
time he “left” home. And he put aside
the sticks of dynamite as usual—the dyna-
mite I always “threw down” a deep shaft
each time he “cleared out”—for me to
throw down a deep shaft.
Next there was the carpenter’s kitbag
with a pocket in it for each tool. He
never “left” until every tool was in its
right place; and now a bit was missing,
and the big auger, too, and they had tq
be found —he couldn’t possibly leave
without the big auger. Mother said it
was a pity the spokeshave and the brace-
and-bit were not also missing; he might
then be able to hang on until it was too
late to leave.
But although he took an extra-long
time to find these things, it was still
too light for it to be too dark. for him
to “depart,” so he packed heavy stuff into
the trunk —he was going to fall back on
his old dodge—“l cannot leave until to-
morrow, unfortunately ; my trunk is too
heavy, and I must wait till I can get a
cart.” Of course, this meant staying the
night with us, and after that—well?
Having decided on this course, and
having much time to fill in until tea-time,
he gave a superb exhibition of knot-tying.
Putting a rope round the trunk, he tied
a careful knot, and then, with a most
dexterous and scientific jerk, undid it.
Then he tied a more complicated one —
one of those technically superb knots that
once belonged solely to seamen. He also
untied this one like a master —it slithered
loose with the speed of lightning.
Next he tied the masterpiece: the great,
final, most defiant of all hard knots to
undo, and to prove this he tried to sur-
prise it by coming at it from different
angles and with sly, crafty pulls, but it
stood up to the attack.
G. K. TOWNSHEND 1936
“I say, old boy, what's this about the deck sports being postponed?”
ARTHUR HORNER 1936
“You bin Wrong all this time, Mum. It wuz a crow,
not a goanna!”
The trunk was now ready for the final
act, with Father looking into the far dis- v
tance, holding his head up as if scenting
some distant haven of rest where there
would be no wives and certainly no store-
keepers. It was the hour when he should
make some show of “departing.”
Of course, being a gentleman, he could
not leave us as if we were absolute
strangers —had to leave us in a well-bred
manner, even though he did feel above
us. He strode majestically, yet not too
overbearingly, to our back door and
knocked firmly but not rudely.
Mother said that he should have come
to the front door and not to the back
door —tradesmen’s entrance.
In answer to his well-bred knock
Mother appeared, and he informed her
that he wished to see his eldest son, and
so I went with him and joined the trunk,
too.
Here, I was informed, as man to man,
that I would never clap eyes on him again,
that he knew I was in league with my
mother, but that he did not blame me
because the mother always pits the son
against the father, and that one day, when
I had a wife of my own and a son, I
would find that out for myself, unfortu-
nately.
He then wished me well in after life,
and hoped that I would prosper. Then
he shook my hand and dismissed me.
Calling my mother next, he in-
formed her courteously but firmly
that, seeing that they had shared the same
roof for so many years, he would like
to say before going out of her life for
ever that he wished her no ill-will or
harm and, before parting, had to inform
her that he would, through his solicitor,
make her a set quarterly allowance ; but
as far as he was concerned personally
never would she have word of him or see
sign of him.
He then said grandiloquently that if at
any time she wished to be free and insti-
tuted proceedings against him for divorce
he would not contest the suit but give her
her freedom.
“And, in the event of my divorcing you
and remarrying,” Mother asked, “would
the allowance cease?”
Father raised his eyebrows in a pained
manner, shrugged his shoulders, bowed
stiffly but gracefully, and said “I have
no time for such flippant remarks,
Madam. Good-bye! ” It was the end.
He went back to headquarters and laid
rough hands on his trunk. The climax
had come —he couldn’t lift the trunk.
He struggled manfully, valiantly, des-
perately ; tried sudden, quick, professional
hoists, slow, strong lifts, but failed to get
it up on to his shoulder —or appeared to
fail.
“We will be having a visitor to tea,”
said Mother, “and he will be staying the
night.”
And so, after another mock display—
this time showing by morosely and de-
jectedly pacing the yard how perturbed
and disappointed he was at being so
detained —he accepted the hospitality of
our table and our roof.
This having been arranged amicably
and without harm to his prestige, he,
while Mother was getting the tea ready.
o Continued on next page.)


went for a “final” stroll round what was
once his happy home. /
At table that evening Father was most
polite—like a real stranger—and handed
Mother the pepper and the salt before
she even knew she wanted them, and even
passed the bread to me without my ask-
ing for it. He accepted two helpings of
the same old Irish-stew we never failed
to have, and ate it as if it were a new
item on the menu.
Conversation was not brisk, but there
was a little of the weather, with now and
then a faint giggle from one of the
children —they were too young to control
themselves, unfortunately.
When the meal was over Father startled
us all by asking us to excuse him, then
rose and left the table —knife and fork in
correct position—and, as he had a long
“journey” before him, retired early.
I now did what it was always my job
to do in the circumstances —cut the
rope that bound the trunk, unpack all
the things in it and put them back where
*hey had been before.
Next morning—it was Sunday, the
Lord’s Day —• Father, although still
aloof with us, ate a hearty breakfast.
As for Mother, she was so busy she
couldn’t find time to talk to any of us,
not even to Father, who was sitting look-
ing at his photograph in the star posi-
tion on the mantelpiece.
Then Mother, in a clean, white, freshly-
ironed apron and her arms white with
flour, said as she bustled past Father:
“Oh, Walter, we’re going to have an
extra-nice dinner today; roast mutton
with red currant jelly, baked pumpkin and
potatoes and a suet and golden syrup
pudding; and I want some good short
wood.”
“Red currant jelly ! ” the family echoed.
“Will you get me some, please,
Walter?” Mother asked graciously.
“Yes, yes, certainly—er—Mother,” said
Father suddenly and all of a fluster, as
if he had just awakened ; and all in a
second Father was his old self again. And
while Mother rushed about and I peeled
the spuds Father was out at the wood-
heap chopping Mother’s wood for her;
chopping willingly and industriously
and whistling like a schoolboy his old set
favorite, “Home, Sweet Home.” [1943.J
MOTHER’S SHOW DRESS
(FROM “OUTBACK OCCASIONS”)
By CHARLES SHAW
MOTHER wasn’t what you could
call a dressy woman. There was
nothing flash about her, but you
could always be sure she was neat
and that her colors suited. We boys, of
course, knew little or nothing about
women’s get-up, but we used to see a lot
of silly-looking things in town of a Satur-
day, and we used to look at our mother
with a sort of satisfied feeling, because
we knew that she could hold her own
anywhere.
We used to go through a phase once
a year. It would happen somewhere
within six or seven weeks of the local
show. In fact, we were never tricked
about the imminence of the show, be-
cause Mother would appear with a
thoughtful look about her, her lips pursed
pleasantly and a precious dream in her
eyes. Sometimes she’d burn the toast,
or ruin the eggs, or be late with tea, or
a day behind with the washing, and then
we’d suddenly remember that the show
was not far off.
For in the matter of her show dress
Mother was one of the greatest creative
artists this country possessed, I don’t
know if the Greeks evolved a Muse for
the art of dressmaking, but if they didn’t
and there is a possibility of Australia
giving the world such a Muse I’m nomi-
nating Mother, You’d see her, fore-
finger on lips, gazing dreamily into the
sunset or gliding slowly down the garden
making strange little passes with her
hands and murmuring to herself. Dur-
ing such a phase things would leave her
unmoved which, in normal times, would
cause ructions. With Mother in the
throes of composition you could leave
your clothes on the floor or the fowls
could wander in and out of the kitchen
with impunity, and that means more than
words can convey.
Then would come the getting out and
close study of old dresses, and the place
would be littered with fashion papers
and lengths of tape, and you’d find mys-
terious messages written on bits of paper,
and we boys and Father would growl
about the tucker and look back at our
sister, who would be following Mother
about like a shadow. The pair of them
would talk double-Dutch to each other,
and we’d have to sit there and chew three-
day-old mutton aind go without pud-
dings.
After that Mother would send away
letters, and back would come a couple
of hundredweight or so of paper patterns.
Father would have to knock off work
and drive Mother into town, where she’d
spend hours and hours in the drapery
stores and often come out with nothing
more than a reel of cotton and her lost
look. Generally, after about three such
trips, she’d come home with a thumping
great wad of rag and packets of hooks
and buttons and things.
All this would be put away with the
paper patterns, and Mother would wait
for her inspiration. It was likely to strike
her any time of the day or night. We
boys have wakened up at two o’clock in
the morning, seen a light, investigated
and found Mother on the living-room
floor with a mouthful of pins and sur-
rounded by bits of tissue-paper of all
shapes and sizes like a jigsaw puzzle.
Once Mother got her inspiration the
farm seemed to stop. The living-room
and the kitchen would be full of paper
and cotton and tape and pins and
material. Nine times out of ten the
neighbors’ wives and daughters and
sisters and aunts would discover the
doings, whether by intuition or smell or
some seventh sense I don’t know, and
then the living-room and kitchen would
be full of females as well as the other
things, and anything that looked like man
or boy would no more put its nose in
there than fly.
Exiles in our own home, we boys and 4
Father would live disconsolately on the'
outskirts of all this activity, snatching a
bit of food when we could, sneaking to
our beds early and leaving them early
and hobnobbing with the men relatives
of the visiting women on the wood-heap
or up behind the haystack.
After a few days of this the women
would stop calling and we’d know the
climax was near. Mother would now be
exalted by a very fury of creation ; her
scissors darted hither and yon, scraps of
material piled up in the house and flowed
out into the yard. The floors would grow
a crop of loose pins and there’d be bits
of cotton and cloth in the sugar, in the
bathroom and floating in the air. Any-
one entering the house had to step warily
to avoid disarranging the puzzles laid
out on the floor and pinned to the table.
Then the sewing-machine would be
dragged forth and placed in the most
advantageous light and the construction
of the dream would begin. The man or
boy who dared to speak to Mother while
she was running-up a hem or turning a
corner or basting a filling, or whatever
it is they do, risked death by a glance.
She held it against Father for a whole
year that he should choose to gash his
foot with the axe and have to receive
attention on the very day she began sew-
ing. She wouldn’t go to the show that
year, because, though the dress was made
and looked pretty good to us, she was
never satisfied with it. Perhaps it was
as well for us children that Mother
wasn’t a painter or poet or writer or
one of those queer people who’re always
creating things. We’d have all finished
up in a home for lost dogs or something.
Well, the sewing generally went on
day and night for upwards of three days
with hardly a let-up. Father, long inured
to this sort of thing, used to get Mother
"LOCK 11 (Neil S. Sherlock) 1939
“ Porpoises, Prendergasl! I love Watching porpoises!”
UNK WHITE 1939
“Hey, Martha! Never mind the Water! Go an grab
them two bottles I left in the ice-chest
a cup of tea in the mornings, and she’d
rise and walk dreamily to the machine
with the tea in her hands and stand there
and sip it and gaze thoughtfully at the
work.
In the end it would be finished and
she’d put it on and parade before Father
and look as pleased as a dog with nine
tails and turn about before the mirror
and pause and look thoughtful and make
a slight change and look pleased again.
And we boys would heave large sighs
and know that soon we’d get a decent
feed again. [1942.]


THE TRIUMPH OF MRS. BOLTON
BY BRIAN JAMES
MRS. Bolton at the Grey Box was
something of a mystery and very
much of a terror. She belonged
most definitely to the battling
type of woman—most aggressively the
battling type. Years ago she had
married Bolton, who was a nice, mild,
innocent man, and then she proceeded to
break him in. During this process he
escaped and fled to a distant part of the
State
There was nothing prepossessing about
Mrs. Bolton ; tall, angular, with a very big
nose that hooked like a beak, and a very
big mouth that would only shut properly
in the middle—there were two open
sections at the corners that never would
close. There was something medieval—
a suggestion of witchcraft—about her;
which, added to her habit of fierce
communing with herself, made her such
a terror. More often than not the com-
muning was argument with an unseen
person who invariably was left a total
wreck. To such a person she spoke in
a high-pitched voice, and with crushing
sarcasm, and she herself supplied the
victim’s answers in a comparatively mild
and always cringing voice. For example:
“Your turkeys have been over again,
Mr. Ryan.”
“Do you really mean to say so, Mrs.
Bolton?’*
**l wouldn’t say so if I didn’t mean it. ”
“I am indeed very sorry, Mrs. Bolton ”
“A fat lot of good your sorrow does
when they have picked holes in all the
young pumpkins.”
“That’s really too bad.”
“It is.”
“Mrs. Bolton, I like to be decent—
what were the pumpkins worth?”
“More than you are able or willing to
pay.”
“Look, I’ll shoot them if they trespass
again.”
“Oh, you needn’t worry—l’ll shoot
them myself.”
Somehow Mr. Ryan was pictured as
slinking off to hide his shame.
Or it might be with the absent Mrs.
O’Meara;
“I don’t want the loan of your buggy.”
“But you said you wanted it to go to a
wedding.”
“Oh, did I? Well, I don’t want it.
Not from neighbors who make such a
song about lending things.”
“I’m sure, Mrs. Bolton, you are wel-
come to the buggy.”
“I’m very sure I’m not welcome. I’m
only a poor woman —but I’m honest.”
“I never really hinted”
“No, of course not. You never hint
anything. That’s why your nose is up in
the air.”
“Oh, Mrs. Bolton.” (In abject tones.)
? “You can keep your blasted buggy—
I’m not too proud to go to a wedding in
a spring-cart.”
Or, again, a grievance would be
worked out to triumphant conclusion with
the far-distant Mr. Bolton:
‘‘Hullo, Alice, it’s great to see you.”
“Oh, it’s you, is it?”
“It’s—it’s—good to be home.”
“Home! ”
“Yes, Alice, home.”
“Whose home?”
“Eh—l mean your home.”
“I’d like a man a lot better if he had
bristles.”
It seemed that Mr. Bolton sank into the
ground at the suggestion of bristles.
J HIS Mr. Bolton was a-fine figure of
a man with something of vacuity in
ms face. It may have been his beard
that created this impression. It was a
fine luxuriant beard, nearly a foot long
and shaped like a spade. A rich red, too,
but in texture it was just like silk. In
some way or other that beard got on
Mrs. Bolton’s nerves, and hence her
preference for bristles.
There wasn’t much of Mr. Bolton’s faca
that wasn’t covered with this red silk,
leaving a vague sort of opening for a
mouth, an island for a nose and a hori-
zontal strip for eyes. After a smooth
forehead the red silk started again and
covered a big head. Mr. Bolton looked,
somehow, pre-rnedieval, an early saint,
very strong in his gentleness, and about
to face, with no little elation, the prospect
of martyrdom. . ,
He was a complete failure in everything
—except, perhaps, as an escapee —though
he was not bowed down under the burden
of conscious failure. But there was a
large inability in him to cope with any-
thing in an independent way. If he were
merely carting soil to the garden m a
wheelbarrow, he would constantly stop
to stroke his beard at the very com-
plexities of the problem. And when Mrs.
Bolton tried to think for him she only
added to his mental confusion.
He did better when he worked tor
others, for there was a directness in the
task that made it easier to perform. Still,
even then simplicity and good nature
often left him liable to imposition. Once
Mrs. O’Meara got him to bring a load
of wood. He arrived with a quantity that
made Darkie grunt and dig in his toes at
every slight rise.
“How much will it be, Mr. Bolton?”
“How much?”
“Yes, how much.”
“For the wood?”
“Yes, that’s right—for the wood.”
Mr. Bolton ran his fingers very lightly
through his beard —that indicated special
mental effort.
“For the wood,” he repeated. “Just
wait a bit.” And he drove off with the
empty dray.
An hour or so later he was back with
an equally big load. He tipped it out.
“I only wanted one load, Mr. Bolton.”
“And that’s all.”
“But you brought two.”
“Begging your pardon, it’s a very small
dray.”
“Well, what do I owe you?”
Mr. Bolton seemed to go into a very
profundity of delicate calculations. The
conclusion didn’t seem quite relevant.
(Continued overleaf.)
BALLAD OF A
SQUATTER’S
DAUGHTER
By L.M.D. O’Neil
They could not find the squatter's lass
In any nook or cranny;
They asked of all the station-hands.
They asked of old black Cranny.
Her Sunday hat hung on its hook
Beside the fly-speclted curtain:
She had not slept upon her bed — _
"There's something wrong* that s certain .
“Well find her dead," her mother said.
“By some lagoon or SOME tree.
Instead of which they found the miss
Perched high within a gum-tree.
Across the dusty plain she gazed
Into the blue horizon;
They squinted all, but could not see
What she had set her eyes on.
Up rode upon his prancing steed
Her sire, the old grey squatter;
“Come down.” be called, “from out of there!
Come down, my darling doller'"
'•'Nay, nay," she said, and shook her head.
“Dear father, cease your tryin
Here I shall sit till he returns."
“Who?" “Faithless Bill O'Brien!
“NoW, where's the dog-eared dingo gone?'
“ He's gone to Augathella!
“Well, what's the odds? Come out of that.
My darling Isabella!
“He promised me that we should wed.
And now the blighter's left me!
7 Now like the Lady of Shaloll
Y Hath cruel Fate bereft me.
] “Here I shall sit all pale and Wan
i Till I have done a perish.
L When lam dead he'll think
it Tier whom his heart did cherish-
ji “Now. by our Lady" swore her dad.
ill "I'll find the blooming varlct!
If/ Oh, I shall pierce him through and through
jj. Until his blood rum scarletl
I He wheeled his steed, he wailed not
j I For topcoat or umbrella;
% With vengeance blazing in his eyes.
11l He rode to Augathella
And sky-high in a mighty branch j
She roosted like a blossom;
A mopoke camped on her right side
And on her left a possum. i
And seven days and seven nights f
Passed, dreary and unhappy: t
And still she sau) no sign of them.
Her lover or her pappy. ‘
The morning downed in gold and flame.
She said. “My eyes are lyin';
It cannot be—by cripcs, it is —■
My daddy and O'Brien!"
O'Brien stood beneath the tree.
Eyes brimming with emotion;
“I did not dream you loved me With
Such undeserved devotion!"
“I icon'l descend!" the damsel cried.
"With shame my cheeks Would redden
If anyone should say of me,
/ had a shotgun Weddin ! '
4 When I am dead, O bury me
In a coffin lined with satin;
A band of pearls upon my brow.
And an epitaph in Latin!'
“Have done, have done!" O'Brien roared
“If you Won't come to ME down.
IVeil, I have brought my trusty Plumb —
I'll chop the flaming tree downf"
“Not that!" the maiden shrieked, and lumped:
He staggered, hut he caught her;
And merrily rang the wedding-bells
For the squatter's lovely daughter.
She suffered much, she suffered long.
In sorrow lone and biller;
But she got her man, and Won renown —
Our champion gum-tree sitter!
PERCY LEASON and L. M. D. O'NEIL 1938


“There was one load of wood.”
“Well, how much for that?”
“I really couldn’t say.”
“But I want to pay you.”
The calculations began all over again,
and then, with the air of apology, for a
possible extortion made in complete good
faith: “Do you think twopence would be
asking too much?”
Mrs. O’Meara paid him what she
thought a proper thing—adding a bit to
it for conscience’ sake. Mr. Bolton
looked at the money doubtfully. “I’m
robbing you,” he said.
So it can’t really be said that Mr.
Bolton was much of a success as a home-
provider. Mrs. Bolton often told him so,
both to his face and in his absence.
N / RS. BOLTON was driven to pro-
-IVI viding for herself and her very
shining offspring, Horace Robert.
Horace Robert was much like his
mother in feature, and his disposition was
made up largely of discontent. He was
thin, woefully so, and at ten he weighed
no more than an average boy of six or
seven. He looked starved, and his appear-
ing so was a gross injustice to the care
his mother bestowed upon him.
In a fierce and awesome way she loved
Horace Robert and even —when she
could lay hands upon him —would go
through the distressing process of cudd-
ling him. She tried to fatten him, but the
more food he consumed the thinner and
longer he became.
And for all' this care and affection
Horace Robert was not grateful. He was
really most unfilial, and his general
attitude was that of deep grievance—
particularly in the matter of food. There
were two items his very being craved
above all others—sugar and sausages—
and for these he was willing to sacrifice
his honor and his manhood-to-be. Sugar
was bought by the bag—seventy pounds—
and Horace Robert devoured it by the
cupful. It was soft white sugar, and full
of small hard lumps. He would scratch
through the opened bag for the lumps,
and put them aside for transport in his
pocket, and then eat great quantities of
the unlumped. The lumpy bits would
serve him when he was away from home.
His face was always clammy with sugar,
and his clothes always sticky.
When sausages were fried in the big
pan, Horace Robert rejoiced in the
sizzling sound like
heavy rain on an iron
roof —and watched the
browning sausages
hungrily. The little bits
that often oozed out of
the ends and crisped
and cooked more
rapidly were his special
perks. His mother
speared these with the
long fork and put them
on a plate.
“Mind, Horry dear,
they’re hot.” But
Horace Robert didn’t
mind their being hot.
He crunched them ; but
even as he did calcu-
lated whether they
would be debited
against his share. Then
he carefully watched
the distribution, and set
size against numbers,
and always felt he was
being cheated.
“She gave herself two
big sausages, and she
gave him two big
sausages, and she gave
me only three little
ones! ”
Young Georgie Ryan,
who had an understand-
ing soul, would listen
thoughtfully and sym-
pathetically.
“H orace, they’re
starving you.”
Horace Robert
agreed. “And then she
tries to fill me up with
bread and jam!”
Once the kangaroo-dog sneaked into
the kitchen, and under their very eyes
abstracted a whole two pounds of
sausages from the meat-plate. It was a
major catastrophe, Mrs. Bolton, as a true
strategist, was at the door with a broom
in her hand to cut off retreat, and Horace
Robert fairly dived at Scrug to retrieve
the treasure. But Scrug just sailed
through the window like a swallow, and
a long string of precious sausages
streamed by his yellow lean flank. Scrug
disappeared in a thicket of box suckers,
and those sausages were gone for ever.
Relations between Horace Robert and
Scrug were never the same again. Not
that there is ever much affection in
kangaroo-dogs, but Scrug kept well out
NORMAN LINDSAY 1941
Angel of Death .
[This cartoon, published on December 10, 1941, commemorated the then-
mysterious loss of H.M.A.S. Sydney and heralded Japan’s attack in the Pacific .]
“I declare it no contest !”
TED SCORFIELD 1940
of Horace Robert’s way, knowing full
well that murder lurked in the very heart
of him.
Horace Robert went over to the
Ryans, as he always did when the world
was cruel. He was struggling with sobs
and rage. Young Georgie came out.
“Horace, you are in trouble. What has
happened?”
“Scrug! ”
“Dead, is he?”
A very big sob took a zigzag course
from low down somewhere and shook
Horace Robert’s frame badly as it found
its way out.
“He —he —stole the —the”
“Good God! Not the sausages!”
Horace Robert could only answer the
question by breaking down entirely.
He wanted to borrow the gun —a very
ancient muzzle-loader but young
Georgie said they were out of caps at
the moment.
MR. BOLTON found himself quite
unable to cope with the work on
the farm. Whatever he did was wrong,
what he thought of doing was wrong,
and what he might have done was wrong.
He wasn’t resentful about this —it was
just the way things were, and it had been
decreed by fate.
At last he left home, but whether he
went of his own volition or whether he
was sent will never be known. After
that he was “up the country” or “down
the country” or “on the coast” or “out
west.” It was always a long way away,
however. It was to be gathered from
Mrs. Bolton’s dialogues with the absent
and unseen that he was still very useless
wherever he was, that he didn’t send
money home, that he didn’t carry on
with other women, and that she pre-
ferred bristles.
Mr. Bolton was really a home-lover.
So there was something of the pathetic
exile about him. At Christmas-time he
would return “for good,” and generally
be gone again by New Year. Sometimes
during the year he would return also
“for good,” and again be off before the
week was out.
Mrs. Bolton worked the farm as best
she could, and made butter and sold it —
good butter, too —wrapping it in wet rags
for sale. The presence of buttons, how-
ever, nearly ruined the butter business.
She kept bees ; she made dresses ; she
was available at births and deaths when
Mrs. Gillett was elsewhere. In all, she
was busy. And then she took in Charlie
Box as a star boarder.
CHARLIE was a man of strong
character, high principles and shock-
ing profanity. He was Bohemian and
Puritan and a joy for the small boys of
the Cookabundy to look upon.
He seemed to hate small boys, and that
justified their giving him good solid
reasons for hating them. Although
slightly deaf, Charlie had a quick in-
tuition —he knew just what small boys
would be saying. When they passed him
on their way home from school, they
addressed him with a politeness that was
an insult in itself, and as the distance
widened they made remarks that had a
very definite bearing on Charlie’s
bachelordom, his lack of morality, his
age and his big bushy beard. Innuendo,
in a very flimsy disguise, would remark
upon certain ladies of the district. Loud,
meaning laughs would greet these clever
thrusts. The internal fires of rage were
terrible in Charlie. He would stop and
face round —beard bristling and eyes
red-rimmed.
“Are you laughing at me?”
“Yes!”
“Are you talking about me?”
“Yes!”
Charlie knew well enough that pursuit
was eagerly hoped for, and he knew he
lacked the speed—it was useless to chase
boys, nimble as young goats, among the
mullock-heaps and bushes. With red-
rimmed eyes he glared upon them, and
threatened immediate report to their
parents, with horribly mutilating cor-
poral punishment to be administered by
himself when he caught them. All this
in language delightfully vigorous.
Charlie was an old digger, but in a|
very different class from Paddy Griffin,,
George Reilly, Black Bull and the rest.
He refused to live in a hut, and enjoyed
the comforts of domicile. He was a
farmer, too, of sorts, and occasionally
tilled the soil. He was a man of
property —at least he had, it was
commonly believed, a fortune awaiting
him when his father died.
This father of Charlie’s lived down
Sydney way somewhere, and was
reckoned very wealthy, and Charlie as
the oldest son was to inherit the wealth
—if the old man didn’t marry again-
Since he was within cooee of the
hundred mark, this should have been
most unlikely, but Charlie’s father was
not as other men. He was always getting
married again—after the last wife died.
Heaven knows how many times that old
man had married, so that Charlie alter-
nated between bright prospects and the
despair of utter destitution for his own
old age. Charlie viewed the women
who married his father with the darkest
of suspicions.
In the long period of waiting for this
precarious inheritance, Charlie pros-
pected and fossicked, or put in a crop
at whatever place he happened to be
staying, or took a harvesting job, or
followed the threshing-machine or chan-
cutter. The latter work took him away
from “home,” but in between he
THE HUNGRY MOTHS.
By Ronald McCuaig.
Poor hungry white moths
That eat my love’s clothing,
Who says very soon
Ye’ll leave her with nothing,
Here under the moon
I make bold to persuade ye,
Ye may eat all her clothes
So ye leave me milady.
Poor
hungry
white
moths.


domiciled himself in a number of ways.
He stayed with his Auntie Grace —she
was three years younger than Charlie,
and this strange reversal of ages was a
matter of no little wonder to children
when uncles were grey and aunties more
or less wrinkled, and, of course, very
good and mostly cranky. Auntie Grace
may have been fond of her ancient
nephew, but she found him hard to put
up with, especially in winter-time. Sad
to say, Charlie had a habit of crouch-
ing over the fire, and spitting freely into
it. It was annoying at all times, and
especially so when there were visitors.
“I do wish you wouldn’t, Charlie.”
“Wouldn’t what, begawd?”
“Well, you know.”
“Well, begawd, missus, what?”
“Well, spit in the fire. That is, so
often.”
Then, without another word, Charlie
would lumber down the paddock, catch
his two big chestnut draughts, harness
them, put them tandem in the dray, drive
up to the front, bring out a lot of non-
descript possessions and soiled clothing,
and a pair of worn blankets, dump all
this in the dray. Then, completely ignor-
ing Grace’s existence, he would tell the
horses they were a pair of so-and-sos, if
over there were, begawd, and drive off.
All of which indicated that Charlie was
a very sensitive man.
Half an hour later he would drive up
to his sister-in-law’s place, dump his
gear on the veranda, put the dray in the
shed, feed his horses liberally from the
chaff-bin, and take his place by the fire
if it were lit. If it were not, he would
moon about till it was. So his brother
would find him installed when he arrived
home, and view him sourly.
In other ways also the arrangement
was not ideal; the house was full of
children, and to Charlie’s expert eye they
were very badly brought up.
“Katie, why don’t you belt the little
so-and-so?”
“I won’t have you talk like that in
front of the children.”
“Like what, begawd?”
“What you just said.”
Then Charlie would move off again,
and the children, in some wonder, would
watch him go. And Charlie’s brother
would come back that evening and
breathe freely again.
AND that is how Charlie came to be at
Mrs. Bolton’s. In many ways it was a
good and convenient arrangement.
Charlie had the room at the end of the
house, and there was ample run and
stable for his horses. And Mrs. Bolton,
strangely enough, didn’t pester and
bother him.
The status of Charlie in the Bolton
home was a mystery to some ; to others,
and they were of the low-minded type,
it was no mystery. They knew. Even
these, however, confessed that they were
puzzled over what old Charlie could see
in her • Apart from that the issue was
plain and clear-cut. Of course, there was
a deal of talk about “open sin” and
“public scandal” and “standing dis-
grace,” and- Charlie was “old enough to
know better,” and Mrs. Bolton was
“ugly enough” to make it impossible.
Still, those who were shocked most at
“these carryings-on” didn’t die of the
shock; in fact, they seemed to thrive
from it.
Perhaps Horace Robert suffered most
from these domestic arrangements. He
didn’t like Charlie overmuch, but at a
maternal command that was not to be
denied he called Charlie “Mr. Box.”
Since no one in living memory had ever
used this address it was a sore trial to
Horace Robert. Boys at school got to
know of it—Georgie Ryan kindly
supplied them with the information —and
Horace Robert was made to suffer for it.
In fact, it led to a row of most satisfying
proportions, involving a number of
families. A vague and often inexact
knowledge of antecedents helped the
matter considerably.
It was little Tommy. Wenn who set
things going.
“ ’Ullo, ’Orry, how’s Mr. Box this
morning?”
There were giggles at this, and Horace
Robert resented them. He was not
popular. And on account of his height,
and his thinness, and his appetite, and
his whingeing, and his mother, and last
but nbt least his supposed inability to
defend himself, he was generally con-
sidered fair game. Tommy Wenn was a
wizened rat of a fellow, with no fore-
head to speak of, and shifty little eyes
with a suspicion of squintiness in them.
But Tommy could fight—game as a bull-
ant, and there wasn’t much of him to hit,
and none of it bruisable or breakable.
The giggles subsided to sniggers and
the sniggers to leering grins. Horace
Robert wasn’t game to focus on any grin,
TED SCORFIELD 1941
“Do they like peanuts?"
“No. but I dal"
but he could feel them all without look-
ing. He could feel, too, the rank in-
justice and cruelty that produced the
grins. He was about to pretend that he
wanted a drink and was just starting for
the* tank when Tommy, pleased with his
success, said, “How long is Mr. Box
going to stay, ’Orry?”
“You leave me alone. Tommy Wenn.”
“Garn, I’m not touching you.”
“You stop talking.” /
“Make me, if you can.”
That was fighting talk, and the others
brightened up hopefully. Not that there
was much chance of fight in Horace
Robert. And Horace Robert knew well
enough that he was no match for
BRUCE COUSIN 1941
“Strong wind Mowin' tonight , sir.
Tommy, small as he was. Then his
mind seized on a local legend —a very
disgraceful one, but in his desperation he
was determined tq use it.
“Black Bull’s your old man’s father!
He-e!” The exclamation was between a
sneer and a hiss.
To the younger boys this was about
as intelligible as a page of “begats” in
the Old Testament, but the older lads
realized something of its significance.
Also, that it was rank insult. And
Tommy was deeply touched.
“You maggot, ’Orry Bolton.”
“And you’re a black bull, Tommy
Wenn.”
Tommy just sailed in, and he looked
terribly efficient. Horace Robert didn’t
wait, but as he turned to run he caught
a stinger midway between shoulder-blade
and kidney. It filled him with rage if
not with courage—he knew Tommy
would “belt the tripe out of him.”
He ran for the acacia-tree, perhaps to
dodge, for Tommy pursued him. Leaning
against the tree was a stick, fairly stout,
and several feet long. Horace Robert
grabbed this stick, dodged round the
tree, and struck Tommy
fair on the head. It was
a heavy hit, and the sound
of it was really impressive.
Tommy went down
stretched out without a
move in him.
IT was all over in a
second or two. There
was silence after the sound
of the blow, and no one
moved. It took time to
realise what had happened.
Then came the awful reali-
sation that Tommy was
dead—murdered. The fact
that Tommy was dead
came to Horace Robert,
too.
He gave one look at the
corpse, and the stick
dropped from his hand.
He was not sorry for
Tommy, only sorry for
himself and what Would
happen to him on account
of killing Tommy. Wild
panic seized him. With
the animal cry of the
closely pursued he turned
and ran to the corner of
the playground, over the
fence and into the bush.
But no one pursued the
murderer —they let him
slip through their fingers,
as it were. With nameless,
instinctive fear they
seemed to creep on
Tommy. Yes, Tommy was
dead—even though they
didn’t and couldn’t believe that a life
could be snuffed out like that. Then a
quite hysterical voice fairly screamed
out “Tommy Wenn’s dead! Tommy
Wenn’s dead!”
That brought action and excitement,
Some boys, the enterprising kind who
act when big things happen, rushed down
to the school and burst in upon Miss
Gorm, and in all disregard of her privacy
during recess burst into a*babble:
“Miss Gorm! Tommy Wenn’s dead!”
“ . . . Under the big acacia-tree! . . .
“Horry Bolton done it! ~ .” We all
seen it! . . .” “Horry Bolton’s cleared
out!”
Miss Gorm gathered little of the real
import of these frenzied utterances. But
at last she gathered that something very
serious had happened. She hastened to
the acacia-tree where some of the boys
and most of the girls were gazing with
thrills of horror upon the body. No
one had touched Tommy since he had
fallen.
The crowd drew back a little as Miss
Gorm approached. Just a little, but not
so much as to lose sight of what went on.
There was a dry and acrid sort of
efficiency about Miss Gorm —just as if
mortality was not her lot at all. She
knelt beside Tommy and discovered he
breathed.
“Now, tell me what happened.”
Babel broke out again, but Miss Gorm
quelled it with a glance. Even in this
(Continued overleaf.)
HENRY LAWSON.
(September, 1922.)
By Andree Hayward.
He trod the plains in golden noontide’s
glow
Through tangled underways at eve he
strayed.
Life’s gladness and its gloom were his to
know.
The light and dark, the glory and the woe,
The sunshine and the shade;
To know —and cut the knowledge, clear
and deep,
' As master hands before in many a clime
Pinioned the flying day for men to keep,
In words that linger or in lines that leap
Adown the aisles of Time.
One moved, nor judged, along the crowded
slum.
Where loneliest tracks are tramped was
one beside
To give them speech that else for us were
dumb—
Still, where they came and went, they go
and come;
He passes, they abide,
Abide, as immortelles that may not fade,
When, ’mid the green and gold of flower
and tree.
The curtain fall’n, the earthly drama
played,
That tired and wasted frame to rest is laid
Beside the shining sea.
A ROBIN.
By Douglas Stewart.
The vast cold silver sky
Gleams in the pool on the bluff
And the bush is grey after rain;
Little, oh, little enough
Is a morsel of wild bush robin
As long as your little finger
—A thing you could hide in your hand—
To feed the heart’s great hunger
That could devour whole skies
Flaring with sunset red,
Mountains of fiery color . . .
Bright black eyes, black head.
And one white feather in his wing
Flashing from twig to rock.
From rock to the shallow pool
That reels with the tiny shock.
The robin darts to bathe
Breast-deep in the sky’s reflection,
And all that icy trance
Breaks in most sweet destruction.
Little, oh, little enough
To fill the heart’s great need.
But when he has splashed his wings
And dipped his dainty head
And spilled the drops down his back
And flown as quick as he came,
There is no need any more
To wish the mountains to flame.
For still it seems in the pool
That breast of crimson glows
And over the whole cold sky
Runs wave after wave of rose.;


tensed emotional atmosphere her glance
was sufficient.
“You, George Ryan.”
“Horry Bolton did it, Miss Gorm.”
“How?”
“Bashed him.”
“What?”
“Hit him with a stick.”
“Where?”
“Under the tree.”
“Yes, yes—but what part of him?”
“Fair over the head, Miss Gorm.”
“Where’s the stick?”
“That’s it near you. Miss Gorm.”
She glanced at the stick and felt
Tommy’s head. There was a lump under
his mousy hair as big as a pullet’s egg.
(Report soon had it larger than a turkey’s
egg.)
Then Tommy opened his eyes and
blinked hard.
“How are you, Thomas?” asked Miss
Gorm in a level emotionless voice as if
it were all one to her whether Tommy
was dead or alive.
“Don’t try to sit up now, Thomas.”
Tommy was groggily attempting to do so.
“Oh, I’m all right, Miss.”
Then he seemed to remember. He felt
his head and fingered the lump. Even
at this juncture he was proud of the size
of it.
“She’s a beaut!” Then, looking round
almost normally again: “Where’s Horry
Bolton?”
“Done a bunk —cleared out!” supplied
one of the enterprising boys.
Tommy didn’t seem vindictive towards
the absent Horace Robert. In fact, the
other boys took a far more serious view
than Tommy did.
Tommy declared that he was quite all
right. A bit of a pain in the head—not
too bad, though. It tookr" a lot to kill a
Wenn.
There was much relief among the
schoolchildren at Tommy’s miraculous
recovery—of course he was quite right
again—and a little resentment, too, that
JOHN FRITH 1942
“And always carry your id entity-cards in case you forget
yourselves
he did recover, thereby robbing the affair
of the full spectacular effect,
HORACE ROBERT arrived home in a
woeful state, out of breath and nearly
strangling with sobs. Mrs. Bolton hugged
him till she found that the hugs were
making the frightful internal convulsions
worse. It was a long time before she
could discover what was wrong.
Even then Horace Robert didn’t dwell
overmuch on the incident of the stick, but
concentrated on the insult. It was very
hard to explain—that is, to make the
insult big enough, for there didn’t seem
much to it when it was repeated. He
didn’t mention the matter of Black Bull
at all. And Tommy Wenn seemed to
have succeeded in dying without the par-
ticular assistance of anyone. But Mrs.
Bolton was not too ready to believe that
Tommy was dead, though she surmised
that Horace Robert had made some sort
of attack on him. But she did understand
the questioning about Mr. Box,
She decided to leave Horace Robert at
home —he was now sufficiently recovered
to eat a cup or two of sugar—and go up
to school and see into things.
She arrived in mid-afternoon, having
had on the journey a noisy and
triumphant quarrel, in advance, with Miss
Gorm, old Mrs. Wenn, young Mrs. Wenn
and several neighbors who, she knew,
would be talking of the affair when it got
about.
The school door was closed on account
of a fairly stiff westerly. And so was the
window on that side.
Mrs. Bolton knocked. When Mrs.
Bolton knocked at the door there was
decision about it. The children, already
in a tensed state, felt that such a knock
could only be made by bushrangers or by
police looking for bushrangers. It was
certainly a day to remember.
Miss Gorm was quite unaffected.
“Birdie O’Meara, please see who it is.”
Birdie was closest to the door. Apart
from that, she was probably the worst
possible choice in the situation.
Birdie had high qualities of imagina-
tion. There was something terrible on
the other side of that door. She took a
tight hold upon herself, and advanced,
o Continued on page 52.)
FIFTH DAY
By Robert D. Fitz Gerald.
In William Rufus’s hall the galleries
reached
half to the rafters like a roost for lords,
perching the fashion of England; back
seat’s fetched
more than a nabob’s bribe. The season
affords
nothing so sought as these hard boards;
so rustling ladies, crush your muslin
frocks . . .
There’s Mrs. Fitzherbert in the royal box.
Scarlet and ermine judges, wigs, gold laces,
canopies, woolsacks, drapings in red and
green
for Peers’ benches and Commons’ the
culprit faces
a canvas not a court, a painted scene;
and from the obsolete frame there lean
figures trapped for tomorrow: history
hooks
the observer into its foreground while he
looks.
The proclamation for silence! Silence lies
deep
under two hundred years. Almost you
would say
the heralds are varnished over, standing
asleep,
and the voice demanding silence has
echoed away
far into silence. As if that day
were flat, still surface at last. But there
survives
a hand in the midst, turning bid thoughts,
old lives.
Quill-marks migrate across a writing-
block—
it is Joseph Gurney’s hand. He heads his
page:
“Fifth day: it wants a quarter of twelve
o’clock:
the Chancellor presides”; so sets a stage
where words must jostle and engage
and die on utterance. But as they pass
paper shall catch their breaths like fog on
glass.
“Warren Hastings Esquire, come forth in
court
to save thee and thy bail” . . . Seven
years shall run;
but a verdict will not end it—would a re-
port
settle affairs in India, cool that sun
that policies well and ill begun
curve about since da Gama? Britain was
built
round India and on Hastings—prove his
guilt!
“Charges of misdemeanors and high
crimes”
prove if proved, share them! Long ago,
far hence,
they are drowned under the influx of new
times.
What’s done goes on for ever as conse-
quence;
but there’s some blurring of evidence
by happenings more at elbow. Why fry
this man?
Hastings is no concern of Pakistan.
But it concerns all men that what they do
remains significant unbroken thread
of the fabric of our living. A man spoke
so
and acted so; and everything done or said
is superseded and overlaid
by change of time and pattern. Be that
as it may,
there was need he lift his finger, say his
say.
Attitude matters: bearing. Action in the
end
goes down the stream as motion, merges
as such
with the whole of life and time; but islands
stand:
dignity and distinctness that attach
to the inmost being of us each.
It matters for man’s private respect that
still
face differs from face and will from will.
It is important how men looked and were.
Infirm, staggering a little, as Hastings was,
his voice was steady as his eyes. Kneel-
ing at the bar
(ruler but late of millions) had steeled his
poise;
he fronted inescapable loss
and thrown, stinking malice and disrepute,
calmly, a plain man in a plain suit.
Undersized, spare, licked dry by tropic
Iteat;
one, with severe forehead and hard lips,
who had taken age’s shilling and complete
grey uniform though not its grey eclipse—
with movements like commands, like
whips:
here is the centre, whether for applause
or loathing,
when evidence and acquittal alike mean
nothing.
But the eye strays- from centre. The axle’s
part
is just to endure the play and spin of the
spokes.
It is another figure rouses the heart,
a scholar loving his nation above his books,
who, pushed by a conscience that pro-
vokes
past reason or discretion, steps, half blind,
to darkness of anger from great light
of his mind.
A compact, muscular man? warms to the
work
which will embitter him in another’s feud,
his own mission and error. Edmund Burke
for right’s clear sake is hounding his pur-
sued,
inveterate, through this seven years’ cloud
where subtle poison—Francis—steeps him
whole;
he stands at the middle of the floor and
twists his scroll.
“My lords, the gentlemen whom the
Commons appoint
to manage this prosecution direct me thus
to inform your lordships” . . . The cool
phrases joint
one into other, and clause links on clause
wrought arguments whereby the cause
of justice and upright dealing may ex-
tend
from Westminster to India, and beyond.
sits near Fox and the managers,
listens and learns.
Burke’s heavy features liven with that
magic
under them and their spectacles, which
turns
knowledge to vision, and vision to strategic
marshalling of words and march of logic
through illustrations like landscapes and
up steep
Quebec heights of statistics. Fox is asleep.
Francis is awake—behind the mask his
face,
inscrutable ... as Junius. “I have found,”
Hastings had said, “in private as in his
place,
he is void of truth and honor.” But cards
go round;
brilliant, elegant as unsound,
he is one to hold them craftily, lead them
well;
Hastings is now his victim, Burke his tool.
Something is eternal in the tugging of
minds
which is not in mountains or monuments
maturing
through day and darkness of centuries;
something that binds
life into tensions and balances enduring
amid flowers withering and years flower-
ing
.whereby in the instant of contest men
outlivo
upshots that melt in hot hands that
achieve.
The fifth day wore to its close. On his
feet still,
Burke was become tired body, who was
cold brain
of impersonal Accusation. Suddenly ill,
he suddenly was himself, forcing through
pain
words that seemed far off and in vain—
empty things scattered about by someone
else,
a child dressed up in a bob-wig, playing
with shells.
That moment swallows everything, like the
gulf
two hundred years are hushed in: the
fatigues
that buzzed like sickness in his brain; the
trial itself
which was a swarming of motives and in-
trigues.
All the antagonisms, leagues,
plots and pamphlets are folded up, col-
lapse;
but still the persons move, the drama
shapes.
Here is displayed failure. Though there
ensues
a recovery, a tomorrow that shall atone —
another hour, when Burke’s voice shall
cry: “Choose!”
and he shall stand in England almost alone,
weighing a guillotine and a throne—
results mean little; they cancel and
coalesce. „
A gesture will outweigh them, a trick
of dress.
*
Ihe common work outweighs them —the
anonymous gift
to the future, living, widening. What
indeed
of that old struggle matters or would be
left
but for an ordinary fellow’s simple need,
who had a family to feed
and liked going to church looked up to,
known
as a man with a tidy business of his own?
Fox hurried to Burke’s aid. The court ad-
journed.
Gurney stoppered his inkhorn, wiped his
pen . . .
Poor Mr. Burke! But it was money earned
lightly and sweetened labor, for lesser men,
to go home early now and then.
Today was finished, folded in shorthand,
packed.
That frown on Hastings must bear this, if
it cracked.


BURNING OFF
BY HELEN MEGGS
AUNT EMILY was always inviting
me to Rock Mountain. “And come
in autumn,” she would say. “It is
so pretty then.” So towards the
end of March I found myself in the
rather battered Rock Mountain bus, lean-
ing back against the hard leather, and
indulging in pleasant day-dreams—lying
in a hammock under the tall golden
poplars, watching birds and wallabies in
the bush, or floating lazily in the placid,
if somewhat muddy, dam.
And that’s just the way it was, the
first day. I had a swim in the dam, then
I took a book under the poplars, and
after lunch I took my camera into Uncle
Jim’s ten-acre block of uncleared bush
and managed to snap a wallaby, staring
with soft-eyed surprise at me over a log.
When I went in to dinner. Uncle Jim
was back from town, where he had been
to take down a load of timber.
“I see you’ve cut quite a lot of trees
since I was here last,” I said as we sat
down.
“Yair,” replied Uncle Jim. “Reckon
the logs I took down today’ll be the last,
though. I’ve got just about everything
worth while outer that there block.”
“Oh, well,” I said philosophically.
“Some of the larger of the ones still there
should be worth a bit in another five
years.”
“Huh!” was all Uncle Jim said.
“I hope we won’t be here in another
five years,” said Aunt Emily. “This
place is all right at this time of the year,
if there’s no fires about and the snakes
aren’t too bad, though the flies are
always awful, but in winter it’s always
rain, rain, rain and mud up to your knees
all the time. It gets me down something
awful.”
‘When did you have a bushfire in your
trees last?” I asked. “I noticed a good
many had been killed.”
Huh?” Uncle Jim looked puzzled as
he shovelled in a huge mouthful of
corned beef. “We ’aven’t ’ad any bush-
nres ere since 1939. Two or three years
ago I put a fire through that block meself,
but u wasn’t a bushfire. Just burnin’
orf,”
Oh, ’ I said. “It must have been a
Pretty fierce blaze judging by the tall
trees that were killed.”
“Aw I dunno,” mumbled Uncle Jim,
through half a potato. “Didn’t do no
arm. One or two big fellas looked as
°ugh they was dead, so I cut ’em
s i arght away. The fire did get away in
end, though. Burnt a few of me own
ence-posts and got into Ted Angus’s
i U Paddock and burnt a lot of ’is grass.”
“Was Ted Angus annoyed?” I asked.
snro s *£ bed Uncle Jim, as he
tr! • s knife and fork across his plate
coi." d,C^. that be . had finished that
’p , , e ’ E knew it was an accident.
j ] pl . e ped me P u t r n n£ w fence-posts, an’
rm m ,S c °w c °me an’ eat the weeds down
vear e P ac^rt°c k that I wasn’t using that
that riouble was I should ’a’ burnt orf
I did Z Uh sooner - Jt was too thick. Time
uia it again now.”
was horrified at this suggestion.
“Iff al IS i ll ~i n, an y danger?” I asked,
set 18 and block, so how can a fire
tally?” Gr mt ° or out i* acciden-
UndP ? rass 'S re mi gbt. get into it,” said
grass ” im ’ same as got out into the
side^“ t r the only grass is on the south
and „i;„ P ? n i e ? out ' “There’s a road
and p Shed land on the other sides,
“pi weather™ d USUally blings rain and
air, agreed Uncle Jim vasuelv
fen'S “ turnin’ orf. St
done for three years.”
had epf °, ne . last attem Pt to save what
little nip™ , to , m 5 such an attractive
“r> P le ? e °f real Victorian bush.
grow if vrffl Ca \ the y° un g trees ever
Protested ‘fcu P burnm g.them down?” I
m ount Tin fhere are millions of young
seedlintfp h ’ messmate and bluegum
iri them 8 ” COmmg U P a H over the place
sai f Uncle Jim, digging his
ding 1 5 a Urge slab of steamed pud-
canf se tM at S th T e se of seedli ngs? You
the other mSelf ” kn ° W ° nC from
I looked at him incredulously. But. I
soon realised that Uncle Jim, although
he had lived at Rock Mountain all his
life, knew very little about trees, apart
from the technicalities of cutting them
down and selling them. In Uncle Jim’s
mind native trees were divided into three
categories—large, sound trees provided
by a kind Providence for man to fell
and sell; fully-grown but rotten or im-
perfect trees, to be ignored ; and seed-
lings and saplings, to be treated as in-
flammable rubbish and burnt.
My final remark, to the effect that the
fire-prohibition period had not yet ended,
met with the information that it would
end that night, and that next day I could
help him with the “burnin’ orf” if I liked.
An ominous north wind was already
blowing when I got up next morning, but
“Can’t do no ’arm” was Uncle Jim’s
verdict. So we set off, Uncle Jim lightly
armed with a box of matches. I took a
fern-hook and hoped for the best.
“I got a photo of a wallaby in there
yesterday,” I remarked, pointing.
“Did y’?” Uncle Jim marvelled. He
cogitated for a time. “Pity I didn’t
bring me gun.”
We lit about fourteen fires along the
south edge of the trees so that the fire
would burn back against the wind, and
immediately had to set to work beating
out grass-fires around the potato-paddock
fence-posts. By the time we had them
all safe the fire was roaring away merrily
on a solid quarter-mile front, but just
moving steadily, owing to the north wind
blowing it back all the time.
There wasn’t much to do but stand and
watch, and at eleven o’clock we left it
to go inside for a cup of tea.
When we came back the wind had
changed to north-west, and part of the
fire had got away through Uncle Jim’s
JACK LUSBY 1943
“Me flamin' two-up arm!"
east fence into Ted Angus’s cow-paddock
again.
We scrambled through the fence, of
which two posts were already ablaze, and
spent the next hour beating back the
grass-fire while Ted got out his plough
and ploughed a break around his hay-
stack. Then he ploughed a break across
the paddock so the fire could go no
farther, and we all went off to lunch. I
marvelled at Ted Angus’s philosophical
attitude, but Uncle Jim seemed to think
he had no cause for complaint.
“’E can’t talk,” said Uncle Jim, “ ’E’s
a real firebug ’imself. Always settin’
somebody’s fence alight. Nearly burnt
down ’is oton ’ouse last summer.”
The ten-acre block was now just a
smoking ruin, with not more than fifty
green heads showing through the smoke.
“She’ll be safe fer another coupla years
now,” remarked Uncle Jim with satis-
faction.
“Safe from what?” I asked rather
bitterly. “Timber thieves?”
This piece of impertinence was passed
over in silence.
Suddenly Aunt Emily leaped from her
chair and pointed dramatically through
the window.
“Look!’’.she cried. “That fool Ted
Angus lighting the park on a day like
this! ”
Ted Angus was sauntering across the
road, and just behind him, on the south
side of the road, a flame shot up through
the bracken. Uncle Jim responded with
an extraordinary burst of profanity.
“I said ’e was a firebug!” he panted
as we rushed towards the flames. I still
had my fern-hook, and Uncle Jim had
paused to seize a gum-bough.
The wind had veered again to due
north and was blowing about fifty miles
an hour, so the fire had spread over
several hundred square yards before we
could get there, and the undergrowth
was so thick we couldn’t get to the other
side to stop it.
A snake shot out from under a log
and wriggled right between my feet.
After a leap into the air which any
Australian Rules footballer might have
envied I quickly destroyed the snake,
and then looked around to see what Uncle
Jim was doing.
He was quietly rolling himself a
cigarette and gazing at the blaze thought-
fully.
“Reckon we’ll ’ave to get the brigade
out fer this,” he said finally. “We can’t
do much with it on our own.”
I was pleasantly surprised at this dis-
play of civic interest, as I didn’t suppose
he would have considered the park any
of his concern. But his next remark dis-
pelled my illusions.
“The fire’s ’eading straight fer Dick’s
place,” he explained. “So you better go
an’ warn ’im an’ Mary while 1 go an’
get me tfuck out an’ rustle up the
brigade.”
I remembered then that Uncle Jim’s
younger brother Dick had married since
my last visit and had built a home on
the far side of the park.
The park consisted of forty acres of
natural forest with a look-out command-
ing a magnificent view, a picnic-shelter
and fireplaces. No resident of Rock
Mountain ever took the slightest notice
of it.
As I drove past the pretty little log
shelter-shed and down the winding track
flanked by tall tree-ferns and trailing
clematis I wondered what it would all
look like when I returned. Already the
birds, were clamoring shrilly overhead.
Dick was out felling timber somewhere
, and Mary at first was incredulous. But
When I showed her the cloud of smoke
rising above the trees at the back she
squealed in dismay and began to pack
clothes in gaily-striped suitcases.
“There’s no need for that yet,” I said
sharply. “Stop being hysterical and come
and help me clear your backyard. This
house makes me think of a bomb on the
end of a fuse.”
And so it did. The park trees, with
dense undergrowth, came right to the
back fence, and from there bracken, dried
grass, weeds and all kinds of rubbish
continued without a break to the back
wall of the big wooden shed which served
as garage for the truck, workshop, tool-
shed and general junk-store. From the
side of the shed nearest the house timber
was stacked untidily, and about two tons
of dry firewood was heaped near the back
porch. The house itself was weather-
board.
“Is the house insured?” I asked Mary,
“I don’t think it is,” she whimpered.
I made no further comment. But I
drove Dick’s truck up to the porch and
told Mary to load the wood on to it
while I made a break through the bracken
beyond. Mary was an ex-typist who still
wore high heels and red fingernails. With
a little brutal encouragement I soon had
her loading firewood, energetically but
tearfully.
I hastily cut a small break all round
the backyard, then set it alight and
pranced like a dervish raking escaping
tongues of flame back into the central
bonfire. I was soaked in sweat after the
first five minutes, but 1 had a fifty-yard
strip of scorched earth between the fence
and the house at the end of half an
hour.
Mary was still loading firewood, and
the smoke from the fire in the park was
rolling over us like a blanket.
I had just finished tossing the odd
lengths of timber back into the shed when
Dick came rattling up in a friend’s truck.
Dick and his friend leaped out in great
excitement.
Dick abruptly asked what in the name
of blazes Mary was doing with the fire-
wood. llj told Mary to go inside and
pack, and ..he shot me a look of triumph
as she disappeared.
“Thanks for burning this break,” be
added more graciously. “It gives me
something to start from.” Dashing across
to the fence he set light to the under-
growth in the park.
I sat down wearily on the step of the
truck and asked friend Dave, “What’s
that for?”
“It’ll burn back to the fire that’s
already coming forward,” explained
Dave.
“Oh,” I said. “What for? So as to
trap the chaps fighting in there?”
Dave spat contemptuously,
“Nah!” he said. “I guess they can go
back the way they came. They had the
fire well under control when we came
round.”
“If they had it well under control, why
start it again?” I asked, honestly puzzled.
“I wouldn’t have bothered meself,”
conceded Dave. “But I suppose Dick
thinks it’s best to be on the safe side.”
“And what about the Ranger’s house?”
I asked.
The Ranger’s house was on the south-
east corner of the park, and was there-
fore likely to catch the fire from two
directions.
Dave considered this for a moment.
“Yair,” he agreed, as he thoughtfully
gnawed a cigarette. “The Ranger’s in
there fighting with the others. Reckon I
better go round and warn him about this
one Dick’s started.”
So off he went, and in another hour
the fire was within a hundred yards of the
Ranger’s north fence and within two
hundred yards of his east fence. Twenty
of us were converging in a semicircle
round his place when a new recruit,
known locally as “Mad Mike,” rushed up,
armed with the usual weapon, a box of
matches, and set fire to the bracken to
the south of the house.
When the scarlet-faced Ranger asked
him what the unspeakable so-and-so he
thought he was doing Mad Mike pointed
out, with the aplomb of a general explain-
ing a complicated tactical manoeuvre, that
if the wind changed that would make a
useful break.
“And what if the wind doesn’t change
for a couple of days?” yelled the Ranger.
“Your bloody break is heading straight
for the house! Put it out at once!”
It took six of us half an hour to help
him do it, during which time the flames
were crackling steadily closer to the
house.
By midnight our numbers had swelled
to thirty, and the fire had burnt down
the Ranger’s north fence and was only
a chain away from the east fence.
At dawn his wife was sitting in the
middle of the road with her four wailing
(Continued overleaf.)


hesitated, trembled, advanced again, and
just as she was about to grasp the door-
knob found herself totally deprived of
all muscular activity. A second knock,
louder, if possible, than the first, seemed
to shake the whole building. Birdie just
froze. Miss Gorm, still unmoved, com-
manded “Open it!”
That was sufficient to help Birdie to
screw up her courage for just long enough
to open the door with one quick move-
ment And framed in the doorway was
the grim figure of Mrs. Bolton. The Lord
knows what she represented to Birdie at
that moment, but Birdie screamed and
rushed back to her seat.
“Be quiet. Birdie O’Meara!” And Miss
Gorm went to the door.
“Well, Mrs. Bolton?”
“I want to see you.”
“You have called at an unfortunate
time. It is school-time, and I must ask
you to wait till three-thirty.”
“This is very important.”
“The school is also very important, may
I remind you.”
“I want to see you now.”
“Three-thirty, if you please.”
But Mrs. Bolton came right in. What
Horace Robert might lack in ability for
physical combat didn’t seem lacking in
Mrs. Bolton. It was no use, either, to
“remind” her of anything. And the level
gaze of Miss Gorm affected her not at all.
She looked round the school, but there
was no sign of Tommy Wenn. Still, the
fact that school was going on indicated
that Tommy couldn’t be dead —not that
she really believed he was. She turned
back to Miss Gorm.
“There’s a lot of dirty talk goes on in
this place.”
“I wish no discussion with you.”
“Call yourself a schoolteacher!”
Mrs. Bolton looked ready for a fray—
with the necessary verbal passages that
precede it. She closed her mouth hard,
and the parts that wouldn’t close made her
fearsome to look at,
“Mrs. Bolton, I have asked you to
leave. Will you go?”
“No!”
“You are trespassing.”
“Fat lot you know about the law of
trespass.”
Mrs. Bolton loved the touch of legality,
being a good deal of a bush lawyer,
“I am afraid that, having warned you,
I must institute proceedings.”
“Do so, by all means. I intend to
‘institute proceedings,’ as you call it,
myself.”
“And, furthermore, your son is liable
to arrest.”
“And for what?”
“Assault and battery.”
“On whom?”
“Tommy Wenn.”
“I don’t see him.”
“I sent him home in care of two other
boys.”
“He must have been hurt.”
Mrs. Bolton then invited anyone to put
her out —anyone at all, and she glared
hard at Miss Gorm. She gave her views,
expressed in vigor, of the educational
system generally, with particular reference
to the sample of it along the Cookabundy.
She gave a thumbnail sketch of Miss
Gorm, emphasising her uselessness. She
declared that Horace Robert was far too
good to mix with the lot of children she
saw before her. She denounced her
neighbors as a most unneighborly crowd,
She broadly intimated that in a well-
ordered community there would be no
place for Wenns. By these gentle grada-
tions she reached the “whatabouts.”
Younger children really shouldn’t be
within hearing when “whatabouts” are
broached. On this occasion they were
given much food for wondering
inquiry.
“U/HAT about Mr. Box?”
“ V This was defiance, not query ;
RUFUS MORRIS 1944
“ Wot'll you do, cabby, when the Yanks go?”
“Wot'll YOU do, sister?”
and accusation, too, as though Miss Gorm
was harboring guilty thoughts and had
not kept them to herself altogether. But
Miss Gorm had been reduced to silence.
“What about the Black Bull?”
“What about the Bisleys?” Here, to
indicate a slight shifting of moral grounds,
Mrs. Bolton added, perhaps unnecessarily,
“I never stole anyone’s sheep or cattle.”
“What about the dirty Doolans? I
haven’t my house full of bugs.”
“What about the Schneiders and the
Notts and the Reimers and the ...” Here
she just had to stop for breath.
As a history of the district, at least one
side of its history, it was fairly compre-
hensive. Finally, as though Miss Gorm
were to blame for all the shortcomings
of the district for at least two genera-
tions, Mrs. Bolton summed up: “And
now, what about yourself?”
It didn’t seem that answers were really
expected; in fact, the answers were
implied in the questions themselves. Hav-
ing, no doubt, given herself much internal
satisfaction, Mrs. Bolton took her de-
parture, after one last fierce survey of the
schoolroom and all in it. She strode down
the hill, and through the bush, a very
picture of Nemesis returning from a visit
that was long overdue, rehearsing her
triumph, if such it could be called, with
much gloating. And in particular cases
“rubbing it in.”
Miss Gorm advised the children to say
nothing about the whole “unfortunate
visit.” She would know, she said, what
was the “proper course to take.”
When the children were dismissed for
the day they nearly broke their necks to
get home and tell what had happened,
Mrs. Nott set out straight away to have
it out with Mrs. Bolton, but turned back
at the creek, deciding that she would “just
let it stand for the moment.” Old Mrs.
Wenn (who was younger in some ways
than young Mrs. Wenn) said she wouldn't
take any notice of anything Mrs. Bolton
might say.
Mrs. Doolan, also something of a bush-
lawyer, went in to see Dawson, the
solicitor, about “damages” over the bugs.
“I have thirty-two witnesses, Mr.
Dawson, and thirty-three if I count Miss
Gorm —a narrow-chested, sour marm if
you ask me.”
Mr. Dawson didn’t scent any great
profit from the Doolans and their injured
pride. He leaned back, and half-closed
his eyes, which made him look very cun-
ning.
“But really, Mrs. Doolan, do you think
anything is to be gained by an action in
the circumstances?”
“It’s me reputation, Mr. Dawson.”
“Quite so, but how much has it
suffered?”
“What! Me who scalds the bedsteads
twice a year at the least, and pours boiling
water wid a teapot into every crack in
the floor, verandahs and all!”
“What for?”
“To kill the bugs, of course.”
Mr. Dawson shifted his chair ever so
little, and leaned back farther, and closed
his eyes a bit more. Then he advised
Mrs. Doolan to think it over, which she
earnestly promised she would do.
No one “tackled” Mrs. Bolton—she
looked grimmer than ever, and when she
was seen from afar in the early morning,
threading her way through the dewy grass
behind her three fat cows, using a long
gum-stick as a staff, she looked particu-
larly formidable. On these occasions her
voice carried clearly, and she could be
heard carrying her quarrels, with threat,
accusation and defiance, to say nothing of
vituperation, to almost unheard-of heights
of victory. [1947.]
children and several neighboring wives
on top of all the household possessions
she could move. The middle of the
road was safer than the far side, because
the neighbor over there had decided at
3 a.m. that he had better make his fence-
line “safe,” and in so doing had burnt
his fence down; the posts were still
red-hot beacons. This fire had “got
away” from his fence-line at the south-
east end and was now roaring madly
through a fifteen-acre block of virgin
bush next door. However, it only be-
longed to a city bloke who was growing
trees as an investment, and no one
actually lived there, so the general
opinion was that “it wouldn’t do no
’arm.”
The Ranger’s house was eventually
saved, though you couldn’t put your hand
against the north wall, and his once
attractive little garden looked like an
overbaked cake.
At that stage the women on the road
rushed inside and made quarts of tea,
and everyone was wearily merry. I was
mildly surprised to see that Ted Angus
showed no sign of self-consciousness re-
garding his part in the proceedings, while
everyone seemed to regard Dick almost as
runner-up to the Ranger in importance,
because his house had been in some
danger. Dick told the story of my sadistic
treatment of Mary, and everyone stared
at me with interest.
Uncle Jim and I drove home in the
bright morning, and I asked him what
Ted Angus’s motive had been lighting
the fire in the first place.
“Aw, I suppose ’e thought the wind
was going t’ change,” Uncle Jim said.
“Then it would have just burnt in a
little way and come back on itself.”
“But why did he want to bum the park
even a little way?” I persisted. “His
own place wouldn’t have been in any
danger, even in the biggest fire, could it,
seeing the park’s on the south side of
the road?”
“No,” agreed Uncle Jim. “No, ’is own
property couldn’t come to no ’arm. Only
the park ’adn’t ’ad a fire through it for
a few years, so I suppose ’e thought it
needed it.”
After breakfast I went out and looked
at the smoky landscape.
Uncle Jim’s bush block now consisted
of ten acres of blackened spars, a few
of them with shrivelled leaves on top.
Beyond them I could see a collection of
rusty tin sheds in a neighbor’s backyard
which had formerly been invisible.
On the other side of the road the park
was still smouldering. Some of the giant
gums had escaped comparatively un-
harmed, but nothing under thirty feet in
height was still alive, and one huge red-
"HETH" (Norman Hetherington) 1949
“See, it doesn't hurt a bit!”
hot mountain-ash was tottering. When it
fell it would block the road and smash
through jtfie telephone wires.
I turned to the green hill on the north,
and my heart fluttered in a quick spasm
of alarm. All along the horizon smoke
and flames were rising above the trees.
“Uncle!” I shouted. “There’s another
bushfire coming straight for us from the
north! ”
I heard Uncle’s bed creak as he sat up
with a muttered exclamation. He pulled
up his lowered blind and looked out.
“Aw, that!” he croaked in disgust.
“That can’t do no ’arm. That’s just
Sandy Wallace burnin’ orfl” [1948.]
CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX
TO ART AND STORIES
Art.
Date of
Page of Original
This Bulletin
Issue. Artist. Publication.
18 .. Phil May June 12, 1886
19 .. Phil May May 22, 1886
20 .. “Hop” Dec. 22, 1888
21 .. Frank P. Mahony .. Dec. 14, 1895
22 .. Frank P. Mahony .. Feb. 6, 1897
22 .. Tom Durkin July 13, 1895
22 .. D. H. Souter Sept. 10, 1898
23 .. George Lambert Feb. 25, 1899
24 .. Fred Leist April 15, 1899
24 .. George Lambert Dec. 10, 1903
25 .. D. H. Souter Nov. 26, 1903
25 .. Percy Spence ... Oct. 13, 1900
26 .. “Hop” Dec. 10, 1903
26 .. Alf. Vincent Dec. 3, 1903
27 .. Norman Lindsay ... Sept. 20, 1906
28 .. Lionel Lindsay Dec. 15, 1910
29 .. Ruby Lindsay Dec. 14, 1911
30 .. Alf. Vincent April 11, 1912
31 .. B. E. Minns May 9, 1912
32 .. Norman Lindsay ... Dec. 13, 1913
37 .. David Low July 10, 1919
38 .. Jim Bancks Dec. 21, 1922
38 .. D. H. Souter Feb. 3, 1927
39 .. Walter Jardine Dec. 8, 1928
40 .. Percy Leason Dec. 3, 1930
41 .. Unk White April 25, 1934
42 .. Ted Scorfield Dec. 12, 1934
43 .. Ray Whiting July 18, 1934
43 .. B. E. Minns May 24, 1935
44 .. Syd. Miller June 19, 1935
45 .. Arthur Horner July 8, 1936
45 .. G. K. Townshend .. Aug. 26, 1936
46 .. Unk White Feb. 22, 1939
46 .. “Lock” Jan. 11, 939
47 .. Percy Leason Dec. 7, 1938
48 .. Ted Scorfield May 15, 1940
48 .. Norman Lindsay ... Dec. 10, 1941
49 .. Ted Scorfield July 23, 1941
49 .. Bruce Cousin Dec. 24, 1941
50 .. John Frith Sept. 30, 1942
51 .. Jack Lusby Dec, 22, 1943
51 .. Rufus Morris Oct. 11, 1944
52 .. “Heth” April 27, 1949
Stories.
18 .. A Golden Shanty— ,
Edward Dyson ... Dec. 24, 188/
21 .. The Drover’s Wife — .
Henry Lawson .., July 23, 189*
23 .. Cranky Jack — . .
“Steele Rudd” (Arthur H. Davis),
Sept. 4, 1897
expanded to present form l° r
book publication^
25 .. Bill, the Ventriloquial Rooster-
Henry Lawson ... Oct. 22, 1898
26 .. The Haunted Tunnel —
“Tom Collins” (Joseph Furphy),
Dec. 18, 1905
27 .. A Journalist and Two Bears — ,
James Edmond ... Dec. 13, 190°
30 .. Wharflaborers — ..
Robert Brothers .. July 16, 19e*
31 .. The Cooboo —
Katharine Susannah Prichard,
Mar. 31, 19*'
37 .. Stiff Luck for the Colonel — ,
Cecil Mann June 28, 1935
(expanded to present form 1 01
book publication).
39 .. Its Own Level — „ „ 1017
Gavin Casey July 14, 193
41 .. Return of the Hunter —
Frank Dalby Davison,
May 1, 19^0
44 .. Father Clears Out —
James Hackston .. Dec. 29, 1 94
46 .. Mother’s Show Dress —
Charles Shaw July 8, 19
47 .. The Triumph of Mrs. Bolton-
Brian James Jan. 1,
51 .. Burning Off— e iq4B
Helen Meggs Dec. 8, 19
Verse. froih
The verse covers a period dating v .
Paterson’s “Man from Snowy River,
April 26, 1890, to Robert D. Fitz Gerald s T
Day,” October 29, 1947*


BOOKS
YOU WILL ENJOY
brown men and red sand
Charles P. Mountford
N°t an anthropological treatise, but a
readable account of the aborigines of
•“'“Ptral Australia by one who knows them
intimately. This story of the author’s travels
him e Musgrave and Mann Ranges not only
noids the attention of the general reader, but
h ■? of reliable information on the
daily hfe of the natives,
j:?®, brilliant photographs that illustrate this
ook are one of its most remarkable features,
ap-endpaper. 66 Full-page Plates.
Price 17/6 (Postage 6d.)
BfIOUIIMIKn
aao
•fi<DSflno
o
mm
...
:■
Ca*«'.«».®oS*TVoM'
m
I II
. by MACCOLM' uren
GLINT OF GOLD
Malcolm Uren
A history of the Western Australian goldfields,
containing the best stories of the prospectors,
will appeal to the-thousands of Australians who
see in the gold-rush era one of the most
fascinating periods of o-dr history. Mr. Uren
quotes many contemporary letters and docu-
ments that give a first-hand flavour to the
narrative. Many vivid details of goldfield life
not mentioned in the more formal histories are
brought to life. , Illustrated.
Price 19/6 (Postage 6d.)
AUSTRALIAN NATURE
STORIES
Ronald K. Monro
This is undoubtedly the most beautiful
mature book ever produced in Australia.
Here we have the “private lives” of
niany of Australia’s shyest birds and
niroals, exposed by a photographer
nose art was matched only by his
Pa lence in securing these first-rate pic-
res. “This book will delight, I feel
re, generations of Australians” (Crosbie
orrison). Many Full-page Photographs.
Price 10/6 (Postage 6d.)
di'€
tmm
& (.pun
HI;
from all booksellers
or the Publishers
Robertson & Mullens Ltd.
107-109-111-113 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6i YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
DMEJD
i
«
Time
IA
m
Ca^itcu4
yy. ;
mr
CAPSTAN
J-L $ ej" a vented CL-taatette
A MISLAID ART
By NORMAN LINDSAY
If is suggested that I write
something about past
Bulletin artists and the art
of pen-and-ink work gener-
ally. To do that I must go back
to the ’nineties, when I arrived
in Melbourne as an art student
about the year 1895. Black-
and-white was the medium I
wished to work in, and I found
awaiting me in Melbourne a
revelation of The Bulletin’s
profound significance, not only
in the practice of black-and-
white, but to all self-expression
in that era which we now know
to have been the genesis of our
national culture. The dawning
consciousness that such a culture
was possible we owe solely to
The Bulletin. The group of
aspiring artists and writers
among whom I arrived were all
impassioned devotees of the
paper, and all sent it their best
efforts in verse, prose and pen-
and-ink.
The despondent finances of
that era had much to do with its
spiritual aspirations. If one was
to live by art alone, the meagre
market for one’s works enforced
an effort to excel in them. We
were a poverty-stricken lot.
Melbourne was dimly trying to
recover from the 1892 land-
boom smash, and the country
was still bankrupt. All values
were reduced to a fantastic
minimum. One might rent the
whole floor of a building for half
a crown weekly, a half-pound
plug of tobacco cost a shilling,
and a three-course dinner six-
pence. Existence maintained on
such terms was only for the
financially sound. For others less
opulent a three-course dinner
could be had for fourpence, if
one dispensed with a fastidious
investigation into the edible sub-
stances which composed those
courses. Consider, then, the im-
portance of getting a drawing
accepted by The Bulletin,
which paid the handsome sum of
one pound for a two-column
joke-block and ten shillings for
one reduced to a single column.
That was real money in those
days, when the market price of
a hair-restorer ad. was half a
crown.
Hughie McLean, who aver-
aged one single-column drawing
a month in The Bulletin,
managed to exist on that one
source of income. It was at his
room that the group met on
Thursday morning for a feverish
inspection of a communal copy
of The Bulletin, and spiritual
prestige was his who had a draw-
ing, a short story, a set of verses,
or even a few pars, accepted by it.
The paper was read, analysed,
and exulted over from cover to
cover, and reputations were
made or unmade by the devas-
tating comments in the “Answers
to Correspondents.” I recall a
poet bereft for ever of his muse
by the information that when his
poem was opened it escaped and
ran down a rathole. On the
other hand, what distinction for
one who had his work published
in the cramped type of that era!
Reverence was the emotion
with which I regarded Jack
Green, a member of our group,
who was given a full Red Page
for a fantasy which preconceived
Nietzsche’s concept of Eternal
Recurrence. A man picks up a
round water-worn pebble on a
beach. He takes it home and
measures it with scientific
accuracy, and it is spherically
perfect, the sport of chance that
only a million years might pro-
duce. That night he has a vision
in his sleep; the vision of a
beach covered with millions of
perfectly round water - worn
pebbles, while there stream past
him millions of replicas of one
face —his own. That I remember
this, and many other distinctive
works published in the paper, is
the evidence how closely we
searched it for any standard of
excellence.
Yet I must record that Jack
Green, given the highest award
of literary distinction possible in
his era, joined Dan Barry’s com-
pany of barnstormers and
wandered off into the limbo of
a strolling player out of our
circle, which was dazed to
account for such a wanton re-
jection of a literary apotheosis
conferred on him by the
mysterious pundits who pro-
duced The Bulletin. Mysterious
they were. The Lama of Tibet
had nothing on J. F. Archibald
as the veiled prophet of Aus-
tralia’s cultural destiny. An aura
hung about anyone who had met
him, or even seen him. Only
an authoritative opinion on life
and art can establish reverence
for itself in such terms.
It never occurred to me in
those days that there was a pos-
sible place for me on The
Bulletin. Not so much in
modest disavowal of my works —
though I was modest enough on
that score —but because I enter-
tained a suspicion that a tech-
nique derived from Diirer’s etch-
ings and the decorative designs
of Frederick Sandys was hardly
one that would commend itself
to a Bulletin joke-block. When
my friend Jack Elkington
insisted on taking to Sydney a
series of pen-and-ink illustrations
I had done to Boccaccio, I had
no expectations that they would
commend themselves to The
Bulletin. Therefore I was
much amazed when a set of
verses and a joke-gag arrived
from Archibald for me to
illustrate —and a hell of a job it
gave me to try to devise a tech-
nique that might be suitable for
the paper. By return post I got
a cheque for five pounds, and
was staggered in all my being
for such a regal reward for two
very inadequate pen-drawings.
And still further staggered when
a personal letter from Archibald
invited me to Sydney ; a journey
which established me on the staff
of the paper ...
“Hop” was The Bulletin’s
chief cartoonist at that time,
while Alf. Vincent did the
Melbourne page. Vincent I
never had any contact with.
He was a tall, extremely
good-looking fellow, of a
rather negative personality,
as his work assiduously imitated
the style of Phil May, and his
exit from the paper was by
a tragic death. But I must pause
at the august figure of Livingston
Hopkins, on whom I arrived as
a most obnoxious intrusion into
the dignity of his position as The
Bulletin’s major cartoonist.
Hop was an impressive figure ;
six feet tall, with the face of
well-nurtured Don Quixote, a
groomed beard and moustache
and haughty, drooping eyelids;
and when he threw back his
head and focused you through
his nose-glasses, you were warned
to take no liberties with him.
He surrounded himself with
an impenetrable barrier of
exclusiveness against approach
by familiarity from lesser beings.
No ingratiating hand ever dared
slap him on the back. Even
Macleod, the manager, was
scared of him. He countenanced
no dictation from anyone on the
staff over the concept or pro-
duction of his work, and the
problem of getting the cartoon
out of him in time to have it
etched before going to press in-
duced a weekly frenzy among the
whole executive, from Macleod
downwards. Macleod alone
dared to approach The Presence
with a humble request for the
belated cartoon. Not that he
was allowed inside Hop’s
sanctum. No one was ever per-
mitted to view Hop at his
majestic labors. Many times I
have witnessed the abortive cere-
monial which failed to produce
the cartoon. Furtively Macleod
would approach Hop s door and
knock obsequiously. After a
measured interval the door
would be opened and Hop re-
veaied focusing intolerance on
Macleod through his nose-
glasses. Then this brief dialogue
wo;ild ensue. Oh er -
Hopkins the etcher would be
earS“t con"
lenience ” “Tell the etcher'
i --ii 1
rartoon d ’at mv raaven ence m
hi? The Sor would *en be
shut in Macleod’s face.
r * tt •> i
I put it down to Hops regal
, rence to the exasperation
he inflicted on the paper s man-
agement that I early cultivated a
conscience for having my work
on time, which endures to this
day. Rather than let the paper
down over a cartoon I once pro-
duced one on the third day of
an attack of pneumonia, propped
up in bed with a temperature
singeing the pillows, and the
effort nearly did for me. So
much for the moral effect of
Hop s refusal to let the mere
routine which produces a paper
intrude on the awful state of
meditation which produced his
weekly page!
I was first introduced to him
by Macleod, who thereby insti-
tuted a ceremonial much be-
devilled by repetition. Very
conscious that he was taking a
liberty over intruding one of my
insignificance on Hop’s attention
Macleod did so, and Hop ad-
justed his nose-glasses, focused
me through them and gave me
an austere nod, which was not
of greeting but dismissal, since
on meeting him again later he
registered no awareness of my
identity. And this obliteration
of my being very justly brought
down on Hop the annoyance of
having it intruded on his atten-
tion, for if both of us happened
m meet in the presence of any
other member of the staff it im-
plied that we had not previously
met, S o that the member of the
staff felt obliged to introduce us.
Archibald’s turn to perform
this cer emony came one day
w hen I was with him and
Hop stalked in t 0 deposit
a draw ing on his desk;
he was stalking o ut again
when Archie said; « what>
haven’t you and Hop met?” and
called back p inflict on
him the ' ,rocedure ot focu?in «’
identif y in § and dismissing me.
When that was over and he had
ande P arted 1 said t 0 Archie: “™ s
Jf the H
d ““ d “ , Hop ’ a “ d he , ™ ust . be
getting fed up with not knowing
S which P caused Arch ie to
g runt a disparaging opinion on
Hop’s refusal to endorse the
paper’s tradition of communal
relations between members of
the staff.
But j wa § to discover that
under his austere demeanor Hop
concealed a prankish vein of
humor. I had been a couple of
years on the paper when A. G.
Stephens insisted on my going
w itH him to Hop’s Mosman
home, as A.G. was himself
curious to see Hop in a domestic
setting. In it he proved to be
courteous and urbane, and
showed us over his workshop,
where he was making a ’cello,
(Continued on page 60.)


“7ke Wme-W-Ue
■Cctrk up ter
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney,
STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P, J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
Under
SCOTT’S
“RENOWN”
Rope
Cordage
and
Binder
Twine
J. SCOTT PTY. LTD.
(.Established 1909)
163 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
Extend their congratulations to The BULLETIN
on attaining its seventieth year of publication ■
A
Rope
for
Every
Purpose
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Share Prices
The sharemarkets of Aus-
tralia at the moment are going
through a rather touchy period.
To begin with, March,
rapidly coming nearer, is a
month with a bad history for
Australian Stock Exchanges—it
has a pre-war and post-war
record for setbacks in prices—
and investors are approaching it
this year with caution, more
especially since there are doubts
about revaluation. If the Aus-
tralian pound is brought closer
to parity with sterling it will
affect the income or turnover of
the Barrier mines, goldmining
cos. and woolbroking concerns
directly. Most of the rest of the
market is unlikely to be affected
directly—that is, the profit-earn-
ing capacity of the majority of
manufacturing concerns is not
likely to be endangered except
so far as competition from im-
ports is stimulated but if
Barriers, pastoral stocks and
goldmines drop, then there may
be a tendency for the whole
market to ease.
This argument assumes that
revaluation of the pound may
become an accomplished fact.
What move the Government will
make has yet to be determined.
If an adjustment is made it
should be done without warn-
ing, otherwise the speculator
and the manipulator would be
liable to gain an advantage over
the legitimate users of overseas
exchange. Of course, so far as
Barrier and similar stocks are
concerned, the market may have
already made an allowance for
the contingency of exchange
appreciation.
These are the doubts in the
sharemarket picture. Possibly
a good deal has been allowed
for already in sharemarket
prices. Certainly there has not
been a big upward movement in
shares since the Liberal-C.P.
Government took office, even ad-
mitting that there has been a
general strengthening. And a
great deal is expected, in the
long run, by industry from the
change in Commonwealth Gov-
ernment policy as regards pri-
vate enterprise. Considering
“And when you come to reducoing it I Want it done in an apricot beiges
the fundamental change that is
ultimately expected to take place
in our economy when a return
to reasonable private initiative
is achieved, the sharemarket has
not yet fully discounted pros-
pects.
As has been mentioned here
before, investors in manufac-
turing concerns generally should
take particular note of produc-
tion statistics in the' months to
come. If the new Government
has any early success in its pro-
duction drive it will be indi-
cated in the indexes of coal and
steel production and in output
of electric power. As soon as
real improvement is indicated in
the output of these basic items
there will be reason to be-
lieve that industry as a whole
will be able to function at a pace
nearer to its full capacity, with
corresponding increase in out-
put, turnover and profit. Many
big industries at present are
functioning at nearer half-
capacity than full - capacity.
B.H.P. itself is an outstanding
example of incomplete produc-
tivity. Bradford Cotton is
another case in point. Many
more can be found.
When production indexes re-
lating to coal and other basic
needs start to rise, that will be
the investor’s cue to hang on to
his industrial shares or to buy
in further.
The Exchange Rate
From R. Lobban, Sydney—
published without comment,
prejudice or “recantation”:
The Bulletin dealt with that most
important matter, the exchange rate,
on 5/l/’49, and stated then that
“the big increase in our London
funds will certainly raise the question
of exchange-rate adjustment early in
the new year.” London funds were
then £A3 50,000,000 —now well over
£A400,000,000. Being a banker of
50 years’ Australian and London ex-
perience, with first-hand acquaintance
with Australian finance, I ventured
then to place my views before you,
challenging your previous attitude to
the anomalous exchange position and
deploring what I regarded as a lack
of your usual robust Australian out-
look.
I am now impelled to say that such
an influential organ of public opinion
as The Bulletin cannot escape
responsibility for its share in the ex-
change position to which we have
now sunk. You suggest a close
revision by bankers, economists and
Treasury officials. Had you seen fit
to publish my views a year ago the
discussion then suggested by you
might have been provoked, and Mr.
Chifley would have had to think
twice before plunging Australia fur-
ther into the disastrous currency de-
preciation of four months ago, after
an informal discussion with the
governor of . the Commonwealth
Bank in a motor-car in Martin-
place on a Saturday evening. That
is the pass to which one-man control
of our national finance brought us!
The new Government is in a
dilemma. The P.M., in his admir-
able speech in Parliament on the
exchange depreciation, said the
Opposition was not going to chal-
lenge the then P.M.’s decision, and
then he went on, with his usual
clarity of logic, to advance devastat-
ing arguments against it. On the
other hand, Mr. Fadden has said
adjustment to parity would bring
“chaos,” and, as leader of the C.P.,
must make “I will” wait upon “I
dare not.”
Your journal now admits that in
the event of a violent deflation over-
seas we can return to the present
exchange rate as a depression reserve.
My comment a year ago was that a
depreciated currency is an export
stimulant in time of depression, but
when the patient has recovered the
stimulant should be denied until again
needed. The alternative is further
“dopesomania”—which is just what
has happened.
Exchange depreciation is a sign of
financial weakness, which makes Aus-
tralia’s position all the more
anomalous. If Mr. Chifley had seen
fit to visit U.S.A. on any of his
brief trips abroad, and had personally
demonstrated the real strength of our
financial position to leading financiers
there, our dollar position today would
have been much happier, and We
could have been helping Great Britain
instead of having been a drain on
its dollar resources.
At this late hour a full return to
parity would be a severe jolt to our
financial economy, but under the
Bretton Woods agreement we can
appreciate our currency by 10 p er
cent, per annum —say about July i,
at the end of the current wool season!
Since the above comments were
drafted I have read two excellent
articles on the subject in The
Bulletin of 18/l/’5O, and wish to
congratulate The Bulletin on its
overdue return to financial leadership.
But why not recant entirely? Our
pound has been worth at least four
dollars for several years.
Mr. Chifley’s “taxi” decision was
no doubt dictated by political con-
siderations, but he had also stated
that he had promised Mr. Attlee not
to revalue our currency. He could
not then have envisaged a further
drop of 30 per cent, in sterling. The
tide in Australia’s financial affairs
was thus missed.
The Rice Racket
“Downstream”: As far as
climate goes, almost the whole
of Australia could grow rice. It
has been tried, on and off, in
every mainland State since
1869, but with profit only in the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Areas,
because there land, water and
climate are suitable and ade-
quate.
There are two main kinds of
rice-culture — viz., under natural
rainfall (upland rice) and under
irrigation. Upland rice was
cultivated in the Northern Terri-
tory in the ’eighties by Chinese
for their own use and in the
’nineties in the Cairns (N.Q.)
district, where in its best year
887 acres produced 777 tons—
respectable compared with
Asiatic yields. However, sugar-
growing was more profitable.
Rice was grown a generation
later on the Atherton Tableland,
but could not compete with
maize and dairying. It was tried
on the N.S.W. North Coast in


Q
m.
future
* • • • can be assured now by
OKing out adequate assurance
'tn the Equitable Probate &
general Insurance Co. Ltd. A
stable policy will make
ertain of his secondary educa-
_? n ond business training and
f lve him a good start in life,
ontact “ The Equitable ” and
„!l cuss tllls urgent and import-
-of |t matter.
L*. V. PERKINS,
General Manager.
v/.'m
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
PS
A
Q
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
OF ESPECIAL INTEREST TO
COUNTRY BUSINESSMEN
We offer a prompt, careful,
attractive BONEO and TYPING
service at reasonable rates.
We use air freight for speedy return.
May we send you a sample of our
work and a price list.
Integrity Copying Service,
Ground Floor, 283 Clarence Street,
Sydney. MA 5679.
Proud's Watch Value
Envoy", £B'4'-
S-.
//
K
15-jewel movement
dust-resisting case.
Proud’s announces early 1950 watch news ...
again bringing you a reliable wrist watch at a
price that is top value. Man’s “Envoy” watch
has a dependable 15-jewel movement. Screw-
back case of chrome and stainless steel resists
dust and is fitted with an attractive leather
strap. Only Proud’s can offer you the
“Envoy”, priced at £B/4/-.
Ground Floor,
Proud’s Corner, King and Pitt Streets, Sydney
Pelmanism
Scientific Tmining of Mind, Memory and Personality
20th October, 1949.
Intelligence and Life.
“I have noted a decided improvement
n my memory for such things as dates,
Igures, appointments, etc. The Course
las, also taught me that observation is
be basis of intelligence and that life
mnot be wholly understood from books.”
—P.1840 (Civil Servant).
11th July, 1949.
Unbelievable Help.
‘‘Pelmanism has been an almost un-
believable help to me, and I can scarcely
thank you enough for your assistance.”—
C. 2954 (Teacher),
80th Sept., 1949.
Largest Bonus.
“I am very pleased, particularly with
my ability for remembering names, faces
and episodes. In my new occupation I am
in receipt of the largest bonus payment
of anyone employed on similar work in
the organisation.”—M.2463 (Rubber
Worker).
2nd October, 1949.
Assured Prospects.
“My aim is now well in focus. I
obtained a position with a large firm
with assured prospects. I feel I have
gained untold help and am well on the
track with Pelmanism.” —J. 1049 (Store-
man).
June 21, 1949.
No Longer Crouched Up.
“The Pelman Course certainly put new
life into me. I didn’t realise I was so
crouched up. I am now starting to
lengthen out and feel the better for it.”
—H.3002 (Locomotive Fireman), age 31.
The Headquarters of the Pelman Institute
are in London, The Institute has been
established in Melbourne for 43 years,
and has enrolled more than 70,000 of the
million world Pelmanists,
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with the approval
of the Reserve Bank, has made arrange-
ments to meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New Zealand to
enrol for the Pelman Course of Training
without delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Melbourne.
increases the Certainty,
Speed and Reach of Memory
Certainty is proportioned by the sharpness of the
impression made on the mind from outside through
the senses and by the ability to fix firmly the thoughts,
ideas and considerations arising in the mind itself.
If certainty is absolute it is difficult to shake confi-
dence. Pelmanism increases certainty.
Speed in getting impressions saves time, whilst
promptness in recollection is a pre-requisite to the
readiness without which knowledge is often useless.
To be effective a fact or an idea must be recalled and
produced at the right moment. Pelmanism increases
speed.
Reach is the power to bring to mind all known
facts relevant to the matter in hand. Comparison,
inference and judgment are impossible without facts
supplied by memory, and according to the reach of
our memory so is the strength of our ability to make
just comparisons, true inferences and sound judg-
ments. Pelmanism increases reach.
The manner in which memory co-operates with the other faculties
of the mind is discussed in a pamphlet, “The BSckground of
Memory,” issued free with “The Efficient Mind,” which describes, in
detail, Pelmanism and the full personal service which the Pelman
Institute gives.
(Pupils applying for a copy are asked to give
their registered number.)
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of
Mind, Memory and Personality
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “The Efficient Mind.*’
NAME
ADDRESS r.rr**
227 ~.T5....?
-1891 and for a few years there-
after, but sugar took its place.
Upland rice is not payable in
Australia.
Irrigated rice became profit-
able as soon as it was tried in
1925 on the M.I.A. Here the
four essentials for success were
brought together for the first
time: adequate cheap water, ex-
tensive flats with a relatively
impermeable subsoil, the right
variety and up - to - date
machinery. The weighted aver-
age yield on the M.I.A. over the
past 20 years, about If tons of
paddy-rice per acre, is said to
be the highest in the world. But
scarcity of irrigation - water
means dim prospects for in-
creased rice areas.
In South Australia and Vic-
toria irrigation water is too
highly prized for dissipation on
low-value crops, and it is prob-
lematical how much longer
N.S.W. can afford to indulge in
the subsidised water-wasting
racket which rice-growing has
become under paternal Govern-
ments. On the M.I.A. before the
last War the crop averaged a
gross return of only £2 10s. for
each acre-foot of water, whereas
in the same period irrigated
dairying in Victoria was gros-
sing £ll 10s. per acre-foot. This
was one of Victoria’s strongest
arguments for diversion of the
Snowy to the Murray instead of
to the Murrumbidgee.
It takes about 4000 tons of
water to grow a ton of rice.
During the past seven years a
little more than half of all water
used on the M.I.A. went into
rice, but rice has been worth
only 21 p.c. of the total value
of the area’s production in that
period.
For the five years before 1939
the average crop was 41,000
tons, 24,000 tons of which was
eaten in Australia at about £ll
a ton and 17,000 tons exported
at £7 55., yielding an overall re-
turn to the grower of about
£9 7s. 6d. a ton.
A protective tariff and a com-
paratively high home-market
price put the rice-grower on his
feet. During the 1939-45 war
the entire crop was “acquired”
by the Federal Government at
payable prices. Since the war,
however, the industry has bitten
the hand that fed it by export-
ln§ the whole crop at high
prices and leaving nothing for
the Australian public, which sub-
sidised it into existence. What
is more, it costs the taxpayer
13s. per acre-foot to supply
water for which the growers’
Payments average about 6s. 6d.
The usual excuse for this is
that there is a world rice short-
age and Australia is generously
nlling the empty bowls of jts
P°or Pacific and Asiatic neigh-
bors. In the five last pre-war
yoars the average annual world
Production of milled rice ex-
ited 116 million short tons,
112 million of which was pro-
uced in Asia; that our 30-40
housand tons (milled) could
make any material contribution
°t, Wor ld shortage is nonsense.
Ihe new Minister for Supply
and Development should insist
on the home market being satis-
fied before any of the crop is
exported. For the past seven or
eight years Australians have
shown that they can do with-
out rice altogether, but those
who require it should be
allowed to buy it at a price
comparable with world parity.
It is odds-on that we will be
asked once again to pay higher
than world parity as soon as the
overseas market slumps. The
day may not be far distant when
the Australian rice-grower will
be pleading with us to “eat more
rice” ; it could be in his own
interests to let his countrymen
once more acquire a taste for
the 'stuff.
Death Duties
For ten years New Zealanders
have been mulcted of death
duty at rates which would have
brought a roar of protest in any
othey country, but docile Maori-
landers took their fleecing so
quietly under the Socialistic lash
that the majority were blissfully
unaware of the exorbitant rates.
The Socialist highwayman’s act
dates back to the first war year,
when ominous clouds on the
distant horizon and strong
loyalist feelings at home gave
M.L. Labor - Socialists (now
pensioned off) a chance to put
one across without fear of pro-
test. Overnight, estate and suc-
cession rates were more than
doubled—some were trebled —
and there wasn’t a murmur. It
didn’t concern many at the time,
and any who doubted the
Socialists’ good intentions
deemed it prudent to hold their
fire, or hoped that in the day of
victory better motives might
prevail. At any rate, it was all
done nice and quietly under the
cloak of national emergency.
Six years later, when Hitler,
Musso and Tojo were out of
the way and Mars had had
enough, M.L. Socialists had
grown so used to thinking in
umpteen millions that they de-
cided to go on a big peace-time
spending spree, with record high
tax yields and death-duty levies
all thrown in. Socialists didn’t
care two hoots about thrift, so
legalised robbery when estates
came within their reach was all
part of the game. Yields from
stamp and death duties jumped
to a post-war peak of £9£ mil-
lion, against a £3i million
annual average in the five pre-
war years, and M.L. was well on
the road to disinheritance. The
capital levy produced rich har-
vests, but couldn’t appease
Socialistic greed; rather, it
whetted appetites until the final
showdown, when M.L. voters
called “Halt.”
Now Maorilandersnear the end
of life’s journey, waiting to hear
Peter’s call —also those close up
who will step into their shoes—
are asking whether they can stall
off until the new Government
gets to work with the pruning-
knife. They’re hoping for a
scaling-down in death duties
from present sky-high levels to
at least somewhere near Aus-
tralian standards. Here’s how
ML. and Australian rates com-
pare today on estates left to
widows;
£lO,OOO £20,000 £30,000
p.c. p.c. p.c.
N.Z. .. 15.17 25.17 32.3
N.S.W. .. 8.5 14 18.5
Vic. .. 8 12 14.6
S.A. ..10 17 19
Q’land ..11 16 20
W.A. .. 9 15.5 19
Tas. .. 8.75 14.25 18.75
£50,000 £75,000 £lOO,OOO
p.c. p.c. p.c.
N.Z. .. 41.23 50 50
N.S.W. .. 27.5 38.75 48.8
Vic. .. 19.6 25.8 32
S.A. .. 24 30 36
Q’land .. 26 33.5 41
W.A. .. 25 32.5 40
Tas. .. 24.25 29.25 34.25
For 15 years or so trustees
have had a rising tide to help
them, but values might level out
or turn down before long ; then
will come the testing-time.
Properties and securities won’t
be so easily convertible into cash
as in the years of seller’s mar-
ket, and mortgage or loan money
might be tight, too. It’s not a
comforting outlook for trustees
unschooled in grappling with
business problems, as many who
have the handling of private
estates often are.
An interesting bundle of books
for economists of all political
shades, recently to hand from
the publishers: Economics of J.
M. Keynes, by Dudley Dillard
(Crosby Lockwood); Incentives
and Management in British In-
dustry, by R. P. Lynton (Rout-
ledge and Kegan Paul); Problems
of Economic Planning, by E. F.
M. Durbin (Routledge and
Kegan Paul); and Human
Action, by Ludwig von Mises
(Hodge).


Back to School
with a
Class work done with a Biro is
clearer than pencil, neater than
ordinary pen. Biro doesn’t blunt
—writes smoothly, and as fast as
your thoughts all the time.
NOTE TO TEACHERS
When your pupils leave school It
is statistically certain that the
majority will write with a Biro.
Encourage them to write well
NOW with Biro, the modern
way of writing.
I
i
w
Some other Biro models
BIROETTE, for pocket or
handbag. Blue, grey, maroon
or black cases, IS/-.
NEW BIRO, streamlined,
fuU-sized model—34/6.
Biro Minor
In red, blue,
green & black.
Cases match
the inks.
@
with cap
Diro
a pen for your thoughts
Pat. Not. 122073-8 Dec. 1943. 133163-31 Dee. 1943.
Missing Friend.
WILL any person knowing the where'
abouts or any information concerning
HAROLD HOGG, son of George jx 10
Florence Hogg («e Cottee), at ona tun
known to own or occupy an orchard near
Perth, Western Australia, please common '
cate with MESSRS. DARBY SHIR®,
GILLETT & HUELIN, Solicitors, of «
St. George’s Terrace, Perth?
Divorce Notice. _
IN I*HE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce. ,
TO MARJORIE THELMA BULL late w
Bondi Junction.—TAKE NOTICE that
ALBERT HENRY BULL has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4471 of 1949 on tn
ground of your desertion without ]“
cause or excuse for three years and up
wards If you wish to defend y° u
enter an appearance at the Divorce G®.
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by^
17th day of April 1950 and you
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from HENRY PEEDOM & OSAf
MAN, Solicitors, Crown Street, Wolf
gong.—(l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
An Investor?
• Then you certainly cannot afford to be
without The “Wild Cat’’ Monthly. It
contains the most comprehensive investment
analyses of Australia’s leading companies,
economic reviews and mining notes, presented
in a concise, easy-to-find style that puts all
the facts at your fingertips.
2/- a copy; 22/6 a year, post free.
THE "WILD CAT" MONTHLY
A "Bulletin” Publication
THE SERVICE MAN
Asian Peace and
Japan's Policy.
‘‘Ek Dum”: The development
of events in Eastern Asia con-
tinues ominously on a set pat-
tern. Last Thursday another in-
dependent nation was added to
the Asian collection — India,
which became a republic with all
real ties of sovereignty with
the “Commonwealth” (late
“British” Commonwealth)
severed. Technically India re-
mains part of the Common-
wealth, of course, but for prac-
tical purposes it is about in the
same position as Ireland, a fact
which is highly important in the
light of probable events to
come.
The significance of its new
definition of relationship with
other sections of the British
.group of nations can be assessed
by providing the obvious and
inevitable answers to a few vital
questions.
Questions on India
The first is, what would be
the attitude of the Indian Gov-
ernment if Russia were to de-
clare war in Europe on the
Western Powers? Would the
Indian Government at once de-
cide that it was a case of one-in-
all-in and throw its resources
into the common pool for the
defence of civilisation?
The obvious answer to this
must be “no,” since, with its
present resources for defence, to
declare war on Russia would
be something akin to commit-
ting suicide. In the event of
hostilities in the West it can be
taken for granted that Nehru
would be about as self-effacing
as De Valera in World War 11.
Next, what would happen if
the Communist Chinese should
decide to continue their vic-
torious drives into French Indo-
China and to link up with the
Malayan rebels (who, according
to Moscow Radio and its
Japanese pipeline to the Pacific,
are “holding at bay 120,000
British troops”), at the same
time attempting to throw the
British out of Hong Kong? The
obvious answer again is that the
Indian Government would be
forced by its Asia-for-the-
Asians policy to keep out of the
fray.
Lastly, if India were menaced
by attack from Russia in Asia
what would its attitude be? The
answer seems to be perfectly ob-
vious again. The Indian Gov-
ernment would undoubtedly cry
out in anguished tones that all
the other members of the
“Commonwealth” —and particu-
larly Britain and Australia —
were morally bound to use their
last man and last shilling to hold
back the Communist hordes.
And every Australian newspaper
except the “Tribune” would
agree.
The whole arrangement is ob-
viously one-sided, and any
arrangements which are made
at the forthcoming conference
of “Asian” Powers at Canberra
can only be a paper agreement
unless it is backed by a solid
demonstration of trained man-
power and resources which no-
body in the Pacific-Indian Ocean
zones of Asia is in a position to
make, Australia included.
Also, any agreement by the
Indians to stand by the other
members of the [British] Com-
monwealth in an active fight
against Communism must be
meaningless unless better re-
lationships are established with
Pakistan and unless the Nehru
Government agrees to share in
the measures necessary to rout
Communism out of Malaya and
help hold it out of Hong Kong.
Moral support without practical
assistance is little use.
Far more important than any
“Bass Strait's always like this , Missus — she's what
you ladies call a 'perm.'"
paper agreement with the Asian
countries must be the develop-
ment of an English-speaking de-
fence scheme for the Pacific
based on British, United States,
Canadian and South African
linkage with Australia and New
Zealand to complete the world
system of which the European
and Atlantic organisation is in
being.
It is doubly important that
some general arrangement
should exist, because any one of
half a dozen current moves in
Asia, including the absorption
of Manchuria and Sinkiang and
other Chinese provinces into
Russia, which seems to be in
contemplation, combined with
C o m‘m uni s t movements in
Burma, Malaya and Indo-China
and the Chinese advances against
the Tibetan border, might lead
to a major conflagration at any
time. It can never be too often
and too insistently repeated that
the U.S.S.R. is engaged in a
definite plan of world revolution
which affects every country in
the world not in Communist
hands. The only plan which
can successfully counter this
wicked design is a world plan
under British-American leader-
ship. No regional scheme is any
good.
Japanese Developments
In the Pacific schemes the
shift of power in Southern Asia
from European into Asiatic
hands and the resurgence of
Japan are the main complicat-
ing factors.
It is clear that the Russians
have no intention of making
peace with the Japanese unless
there be in office a Govern-
ment after Moscow’s own heart
and upon terms which will make
Russia master of Northern Asia
and of the Pacific.
Yet the Western Powers can-
not long defer making peace
with the Japanese. That coun-
try is reaching a stage in which
it will soon become unmanage-
able by an occupation force.
The aged Premier, Yoshida,
has established a Government
in which there are elements of
permanency and behind which
there seems to be the majority-
support of the Japanese.
Yoshida on Peace
In the Diet last week Yoshida
emphasised the phenomenal
growth of post-war Japan in the
past two years. He pointed out
that exports in 1949 were double
those of 1948 and that produc-
tion had reached 80 per cent, of
the pre-war figure. He did not,
however, dwell on the fact that
this production must serve a
steadily-increasing population or
analyse it in relation to the
change in the nature of produc-
tion caused by the suppression of
war industries which bulked so
largely in Japanese economy up
to 1945.
He, however, made reference
to the defence situation. He
said that while the key to
Japanese security lay in “deter-
mination to abide fully by the
constitutional declaration re-
nouncing war and armaments”
and “devotion to the cause of
world peace,” this did not mean
that Japan did not reserve the
right to defend herself.
It is difficult to make these
statements consistent. To defend
herself effectively Japan needs
a powerful navy, army and air
force, strong enough to cope
with attack from Russia. And
how such a force could be pro-
vided under a policy of “re-
nunciation of armaments” it is
impossible to conceive, unless
arms were provided in huge
quantities from American and
British arsenals.
Any agreement which en-
visioned the arming of Japan in
this way would certainly make
the breach with Russia irre-
parable, even if the Japanese
would agree to so humiliating
an arrangement on a permanent
basis.
Once the occupation ends it
would be very difficult to police
Japanese heavy industry to
insure against dangerous re-
arming, except by consent of the
Japanese themselves. And how
the occupation can -end without
the consent of the Russians it is
difficult to see. The position
might arise—though it is im-
probable under which the
Russians might flatly refuse to
end occupation and claim the
right to put their own troops in
when the American - British
troops should leave.
What is more likely and just
as dangerous is that they will
agree to a peace treaty only on
terms which will include a link-
age between Japan and the
U.S.S.R. combined with a de-
fensive alliance against the West
with Communist China. This
idea has already been put for-
ward by the Japanese Com-
munists.
Contemporaneously with ex-
tensive experimental sea-warfare
exercises by the U.S, Fleet and
land forces in the Caribbean,
based on Viegues, an island close
to Porto Rico, another large
exercise on~ the Canadian-
Alaskan border has been planned
for February, which is a heavy-
snow month in that region.
These operations follow natur-
ally on the earlier “Musk Ox”
trials which mainly were directed
to the testing of
material and equip-
ment under severe
Arctic conditions.
The new Canadian
exercise will deal
Wi t h manpower
usage, under modern
conditions and with
the movement of
large forces armed
and equipped ac-
cording to the out-
come of the earlier
material tests. The
United States Porto
Rican exercise seems
to have been
planned as an experi-
merit in co-ordina-
tion of forces with
new weapons and
new types of naval
vessel, aircraft and
general armament.
if, fg. »
The Australian Communist
party has suffered a sad bereave-
ment through the sudden death
of Comrade KolarOw, President
of Bulgaria. The unfortunate
Comrade was a well-known
revolutionary in the early ’twen-
ties, fleeing his country in 1923
with his hands dripping with the
•blood of his fellow-countrymen.
He also organised the horrible
blowing-up of Sofia Cathedral in
April, 1925, He was an early
Secretary-General of the Com-
intern, and it was over his signa-
ture that the first orders to the
Australian Communist party
were issued from Moscow. Later
he was succeeded in that office
by George Dmitrov, he himself
retiring to Moscow, where he
became an assistant-commissar
for foreign affairs and a white-
headed boy of Zhandov, Stalin’s
successor - in - training. When
Russia took over Bulgaria he be-
came President and Dmitrov
Premier. All three —Zhdanov,
Dmitrov and Kolarow —suddenly
became susceptible to stomach-
ache or some other foul disease
and have perished over the last
18 months at discreet intervals,
along with some of their closest
friends.


x&m,
f 4r
T ■ quavS^
■; s : >:•
P 7* G
Suitings Guaranteed
Made from a
i pure Australian f
| Virgin Wool. I
%
■
v \ x ' %> * v v
•
it. vit-. xitt
.. V X \
%
kv
I
if.. in-
%
m%, 'W&.' ■*. St %., '■
% V\\'W
m
YARRA FAILS
LTD.
ABBOTSFORD, N. 9, VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA


SWISS FINISHING SCHOOL
Le Colombian
A private and select Finishing School
for the Study of Languages ( French
and German ), Continental Culture,
deportment and domestic science.
For prospectus apply to : —
MAJOR and MADAM JACQUES H. E. CHABLE
Olinda Falls Rd., MX. DANDENONG, Victoria.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney. —.
Modern high-class accommodation at ,a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private hai
rooms available. Mea
at moderate rat •
Spacious Wintergardei’
together with first-cia
orchestra. 1
ROOM-ONI.Y RATES
Single Kooms-
From 8/- per
Double Booms— . *
From 15/- per
nig ht
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
‘■METROPOLE.”
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
IP
111
lilii
{fill
i
Mill
UHCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.N.O.’S JERUSALEM.
While U.N.O. has had a
handsome lot of bouquets
showered on it since the late-
-1949 session, it has also had
heaved at it, on one particular
account, just about enough
bricks to complete its hopeful
home.
Cause of the brick barrage is
what N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
has mildly called “The Jerusa-
lem Mess” —the decision by a
most oddly assorted vote of 38
to 14 to hand the Trusteeship
Council the perfectly sweet job
of internationalising Jerusalem ;
and, said the Assembly resolu-
tion, in effect. Don’t stand any
nonsense from anybody ; hit ’em
with everything you’ve got.
Impressively high - sounding,
the Assembly in its resolution
(as condensed from “New York
Times”):
Stated its “intention that Jeru-
salem should be placed under a
permanent international regime.”
Named the U.N. Trusteeship
Council as the city’s “adminis-
tering authority.”
Defined the international area
as a “corpus separatum” includ-
ing Bethlehem and other
suburbs of Jerusalem.
Requested the Trusteeship
Council to prepare a statute for
rule of the Holy City “at its
next session,” without allowing
“any actions taken by any in-
terested Government or Gov-
ernments to divert it.”
“The voting line-up, perhaps
the weirdest in the U.N.’s his-
tory,” commented the “Herald
Tribune,” “offers the best proof
that private and national fac-
tors, rather than the interests of
the world community, pre-
vailed” :
“The Arab bloc, which voted
solidly for internationalisation,
obviously was motivated by the
desire to inflict a diplomatic de-
feat on Israel, which has proven
impervious to its military as-
saults, and also to get in some
spite-work against King Abdul-
lah of Jordan, who no longer is
regarded as within the fold. The
pro-internationalisation line-up
also included an astonishing
conjunction of most of the
Catholic Latin-American nations
and the Soviet bloc. Countries
like France, China, Greece and
Liberia, which frequently range
themselves with the United
States, found it opportune in this
case to ignore the American
lead. The British Common-
wealth countries were similarly
split, with Great Britain oppos-
ing internationalisation, Aus-
tralia favoring it and Canada and
New Zealand abstaining.”
The vote, it should be ex-
plained, was taken while Dr.
Evatt was still “Australia” in
U.N.0., and that particular
Evatt effort was strongly criti-
cised by a former “Australian”
(i.e., Evatt) delegate to U.N.0.,
Lieut.-Col. Hodgson, in Tokyo
on January 4. “My country,”
said Hodgson, meaning Evatt,
“is not blameless. We took a
leading part in the internation-
alisation of Jerusalem.” He
meant, of course, a leading part
in the U.N.O. farce ; the inter-
nationalising of Jerusalem simply
isn’t.
As another sample interpreting
of the vote, London “Time and
Tide,” finding it all marvel-
lously rich in irony, commented:
“In favor of the plan was a
strange combination of Latin-
American and other Catholic
countries and the Moslem Arab
bloc (excluding Jordan) under
the unwelcome leadership of the
Soviet Union —the role of the
latter being purely a trouble-
making one, for Moscow does
not otherwise care a jot about
the future of Jerusalem.
“Those against the plan in-
cluded Britain and the U.S.A.,
Israel and Jordan.
“Thus the Latin-Americans,
generally regarded as the satel-
PERPETUAL MOTION (U.N.O. PATENT).
lites of the U.S.A. at U.N.0.,
voted the way Washington did
not want; while Arab countries
like Iraq, supposedly the friends
of Mr. Bevin, voted the way
Britain did not want. Israel and
Jordan find themselves in com-
pany with Britain and the
U.S.A., so that Israel’s defiance
of U.N.O. is a headache not for
Mr. Bevin but for M. Vyshinsky.
“There have been those who
imagined that Latin-America
must necessarily support the
U.S.A. at U.N.O. ; that Mr.
Bevin’s pro-Arab policy must
necessarily bring him the loyal
support of all Arabs; that, say,
Iraq and Jqrdan would not place
their individual interests before
those of the Arab League as a
whole ; that Tel-Aviv and Mos-
cow would inevitably be in step
—all those who have taken such
suppositions for granted have
shown themselves, to put it
mildly, naive.
“The truth of the matter is
that there is no reality whatever
in the U.N. plan. The Israelis
and the Jordanians can prevent
it working without even using
force. They can do it merely by
agreeing between themselves to
ignore it,”
The “Scotsman” (Edinburgh),
saying in effect “On your own
head be it!” recalled that when
Israel was admitted as a mem-
ber of U.N.O. Britain had re-
frained from voting “because of
doubts about Israel’s attitude to
such questions as the interna-
tionalisation of Jerusalem.”
However, “In spite of her be-
havior in the past, Israel was
admitted,... .But obviously, hav-
ing been allowed so much of her
own way, she is not going to
submit” to this particular
U.N.O, decision, “The British
Government have taken the view
that it is unwise to enforce a
settlement that is unacceptable
both to Jordan and to Israel as
this one is. It looks as if the
U.N. Assembly by insisting on
the internationalisation of Jeru-
salem might seriously undermine
the power and authority of the
United Nations, shaken as that
already has been.”
As another sample British in-
terpretation (from the these-
days somewhat bewildered sec-
tor of the “intellectual Left”),
the “New Statesman and
Nation” puzzled thus over the
decision;
“Is it a victory for the smaller
nations, supported by the Soviet
Union, against Britain and
America? Is it merely a triumph
of irresponsibility, since the de-
cision flouts the expressed wishes
of every Jew and Arab in Pales-
tine, and no measures have been
prepared to enforce it on them?
Or does it, perhaps, mark the
first important incursion of the
Vatican into the politics of Lake
Success?
“This last is certainly the most
convincing explanation of an ex-
traordinary vote, in which
Britain and America were only
supported by Canada, Costa
Rica, Denmark, Guatemala,
Iceland, Israel, Siam, South
Africa, Turkey and Yugoslavia.
“It was well-known that the
Soviet bloc would stand pat on
the partition resolution of
November 29, 1948, which in-
cluded the proposal to inter-
nationalise Jerusalem. As owner,
through the Russian Orthodox
Church, of considerable real
estate in the city, the Soviet
Government has an interest in
participating in an international
regime; and its long-term policy
in Palestine, now that it is clear
that Israeli Socialism is staunchly
anti-Communist, will be to
create the maximum trouble. So
what better than to support a
proposal for internationalisation
which can only cause confusion?
“The attitude of the Moslem
bloc —with the exception of
Turkey —is equally understand-
able. It is determined to prevent
the Jews from acquiring per-
manently the New City, and the
fact that King Abdullah —in
their eyes a British agent —is
ready for a compromise only
stiffened its determination to
vote for internationalisation.
But why did most of Latin
America, Australia, France and
Belgium vote with the Russian
bloc in defiance of the U.S.A.
and Britain? The only sufficient
explanation is the Vatican view
that no true Catholic could per-
mit that sovereignty in Jerusalem
should be shared by Jews. So,
for once, the Vicar of Christ and
the Vicar of anti-Christ found
themselves on the same side.”
Maybe the “New Statesman”
guess on sheer irresponsibility
makes, after all, as good an ex-
planation as any. At all events,
N. Y. “Herald Tribune” has re-
ported that some of the dele-
gates had been quoted as saying
privately that they had voted
for the internationalisation even
though they knew it wouldn’t
work, while others had expressed
belief that a secret ballot would
have produced a different re-
sult. “Yet,” it somewhat
despairingly commented, “the
U.N. surely is not going to pros-
per if its decisions are based on
spite, fright and an insistence on
doing what nobody really thinks
should be done.... Unless the
delegates put responsibility
above expediency the U.N. will
burden its already lustreless
Palestine saga with another sorry
chapter, and not the last one.”
The actual position in Jeru-
salem itself is that Jordan and
Israel now share (or divide) con-
trol there. King Abdullah of
Jordan rules the walled Old
City as well as most of the rest
of Arab Palestine. Abdullah
has said repeatedly that he will
not give it up. He wants to
make the Old City the capital of
an enlarged Kingdom of Jordan.
Israel rules the western section,
the New City. About 100,000
Jews —one-tenth of the popula-
tion of the new State —live in
Jerusalem, and Israeli Premier
David Ben-Gurion has declared
(four days after the U.N.O. de-
cision) : “For the State of Israel
there is, has been and always
will be one capital only, j eru .
salem, the Eternal.”
Completing the masterpiece
of futility is the fact that the
vote was actually a reversion to
a decision the Assembly reached
two years earlier and dropped
then because it had no means of
putting it into effect. U.N.O
still, of course, has no means of
doing anything of the sort; and
the upshot of the whole pitiful
futility is expected by the
U.N.O. outfit itself to be the
Trusteeship Council simply
throwing up its hands and pub-
licly acknowledging its inability
to do the job.
“It may turn out,” “New
York Times” manager Edwin L.
James has commented in his
weekly column, “that the
Assembly vote on Jerusalem
was just about the worst blunder
which has been committed by
the United Nations. It is a
dubious proposition for an in-
ternational body to make deci-
sions which it is not in a posi-
tion to carry out. "That is cer-
tainly true of this one.”
The same paper reports this
exchange overheard at U.N.
headquarters at Lake Success:
First delegate: “Jerusalem
has been the worst headache the
U.N. ever had.”
Second delegate: “Yes, but
we shouldn’t have cut off our
head to get rid of it.”
U.S.-British Differences.
Reporting on “real concern”
being expressed in U.S. influ-
ential quarters over “the con-
stant friction now marring
Anglo-American relations,” the
Washington correspondent of
London “Daily Mail” lists Com-
munist - controlled China, the
atom-bomb, Britain’s dollar-
drive methods and policies to-
wards Japan and Germany
among the chief controversial
issues ; and to them can also be
added oil.
The issue represents one of
the big differences that a change
of Government in this month’s
British elections could make.
“The basic fact that is disturb-
ing many high Government
officials and diplomats here [m
Washington],” states the corres-
pondent, “is that Britain ana
America appear to be entering
the second half of the 20th cen-
tury with their partnership ap-
parently diminishing rather than
increasing in strength and effec-
tiveness.”
Commenting editorially on jj s
correspondent’s report,
“Daily Mail” suggests that 11
may be that Britain has de-
veloped the sensitiveness of the
poor relation. America, on tn
other hand, may expect, in re ‘
turn for her generosity, a grati-
tude which is rarely present i
international affairs.”
It allows that there is P 1 ® 2 '
to be said on both sides, &
allots the bulk of the blame
Attlee, Bevin and Co.: “When
has been said it must be a
mitted that our Goverhmen
handling of relations with ow
countries has been bung ll
foolish and inept. The Arne
cans complain of the 112
fisted’ way in which the oil-
decision was handled. It lS ,
actly on a par with the bru
manner in which the Go v
ment announced devaluation


IP
nsi
■
as
'frusabe
m
t
<&i
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Harbottle, Brown
& Co. P Ltd.
(Established 1827)
WINE and SPIRIT
Merchants
SYDNEY
AND
BRISBANE
Extend their
congratulations to
"The Bulletin”
on attaining its
70th year of publication
, wrecked a French Ministry,
a “Mr Bevin has his qualities,
. t he also has a certain malign
DU ius for annoying people on
both sides of the fence simul-
taneously, so that they turn and
end Britain, who sits precari-
re iv upo n it. Thus he made
enemies of the Arabs and Jews
t the same time. So, also, his
nolicy in Germany aroused the
Leer of the Germans and the
suspicions of the French.
“The Socialists profess to hate
Russian Communism, and they
certainly dislike American capi-
talism. They have alienated the
Irish and annoyed the Scots,
They have given the cold shoul-
der to Western Europe by their
supercilious attitude towards the
European Assembly.
“All this they have done be-
cause their yardstick in foreign
affairs is ideological. They put
Socialism before everything,
which is why they are at odds
with half the world.
“The ties between the U.K.
and the U.S. are much stronger
than the differences. It is, never-
theless, highly dangerous that
there should be any rifts at all.
The Western democracies will
only survive if they are solidly
united—and that prospect would
be clearer if Britain’s affairs
were in wiser, more experienced
and less biased hands.”
Spain in West's
Defence.
Reporting that defence for the
West against the only possible
likely aggressor is making good
progress, London “Daily Tele-
graph” editorially contends that
there is still one notorious weak
spot—the exclusion of Spain:
“News that the United States
is ready to support a movement
to end the diplomatic boycott
of Spain deserves to be promptly
followed up on this [European]
sme of the Atlantic, The mere
self-interest of the Western
nations requires full recognition
of Spain: as far as Britain is
concerned, logic has lost the last
flimsy grounds for resisting it
now that recognition has been
accorded to Communist China.”
Holding that “Western de-
tence presents a yawning gap as
long as Spain is excluded from
n, the same paper has further
commented on this U.N.O.-
arranged ostracism:—
‘‘This is one of those inanities
which will provide some future
Gibbon with an occasion to
exercise satiric wit. When we
found no difficulty in including
Russia, slave-labor camps and
all, in the camp of upholders of
the Atlantic Charter, we strain
and wriggle over accepting
Spain (though not Portugal) as
a fellow - guarantor of the
present East-West status quo.
“Nothing could be more
childishly absurd ; and it may be
hoped that, despite the yells of
Communists and fellow-travel-
lers who were doing everything
in their power to procure
Hitler’s victory when Franco
was adroitly side-stepping his
Axis obligations, commonsense
will before long prevail.
“It is certain that no effective
defence plans for Western
Europe can be made which do
not include the Iberian peninsula.
Defence,, it is true, cannot be
separated from economic re-
covery ; the Military Aid and
European Recovery Programmes
are but two aspects of the same
process, and both, if they are to
be successfully worked out,
necessitate a co-ordinated as well
as a national effort. It is on
Western Europe’s capacity to
achieve co-ordination, economi-
cally, militarily and at last
politically, that its hopes of
future stability and prosperity
rest. Self-help alone will not
suffice. There must also be
mutual aid; and all who, for
whatever reason, resist or im-
pede the drawing together of
Western Europe are resisting or
impeding recovery.”
China Communism.
London “Time and Tide,” for
one> disagrees flatly with the
fashionable line of wishful think-
jn g that Communism in China
will be somehow different from
what it is everywhere else:
“We do not know whether
Chinese Communism will neces-
sarily inherit the hateful internal
tyrannies or the aggressive Im-
perialist foreign policy which
characterise Soviet Russia, or
whether it is capable of develop-
jn g a more humanitarian trend
in domestic policy, a more
pacific attitude on international
affairs. We do not know; but
W e have scant cause for opti-
mism. Communism parted
company with humanitarianism
a full hundred years ago—a
divorce the profound significance
of which the woollier elements
on the Left in this country
[Britain] are < still reluctant to
recognise.
“We can say, therefore, that
Communism has come to stay
in China and that there is as
yet no reason to suppose that it
will differ in any essential
respect from the Communism
which we know elsewhere.”
Soviet-held P.-o.-w.
The Jap p.-0.-w, about whom
the U.S. last month sent a Note
to the Kremlin (for whatever
good it will do) are, of course,
not the only war-prisoners the
Soviet barbarism hangs on to,
or has buried.
A letter lately sent by the
German Chancellor, Dr.
Adenauer, to the Allied High
—London “Time and Tide.”
SOUTHERLY BUSTERS.
Commission in Germany (as re-
ported by London “Times’s”
Bonn correspondent) added yet
another protest, concerning
civilians as well as soldiers.
It declared that during the
later years of the war and after-
wards, hundreds of thousands of
German civilians were deported
to the Soviet Union. In the first
years after the war regular,
albeit limited, contact was main-
tained with relatives in Ger-
many, but since then there has
been no sign of life from many
of the deportees. For the Ger-
man people the detention of the
prisoners and deportees was “a
bitter wrong.” As, since the end
of the war, there was no longer
a protecting Power, the Ger-
man prisoners were abandoned
to the arbitrary disposal of the
countries holding them. Many
prisoners, often on the flimsiest
grounds, had been condemned
to long terms of imprisonment
or forced labor.
Repeated assurances to return
all war prisoners in the course
of 1949 had not been honored
either by the Soviet Union or by
other East European Govern-
ments. Not once, the Chancel-
lor stated, has an explanation
been given of the whereabouts
of the persons who were de-
ported during the advance of the
Russian armies in 1944 and
1945, and of others who were
taken from their homes later.
Among them were thousands of
women and children who had
had nothing to do with the war
or with politics.
The “Times” correspondent
added that, according to figures
recently issued ,by the Bonn
Government, more than 500,000
prisoners-of-war alone are still
held in Russia, Poland, Czecho-
slovakia, Yugoslavia and
Albania.
Some day, no doubt, there
will be a final accounting on
them —a grim one.
Dragnet Digest.
A British-German Contrast.—A
London “Time and Tide” writer
arguing that, since the Welfare State
diminishes rewards and abates penal-
ties and diminished rewards and
lessened penalties usually result in
lessened drive and effort, the Welfare
State, therefore, finds it difficult to
compete with States where less em-
phasis is placed on welfare and more
emphasis on work: “I read the other
day of a big generating station which
the Germans had built in Berlin. It
had taken six months to build, and
the comment of British engineers was
that in Britain today it would take
four years. Spread that contrast over
the production work of two nations
and it is not difficult to see which is
tire more likely to prosper.”
* * * *
Uncle Sam's Poor Deal. —As re-
viewed by the Milwaukee “Journal”:
“Since 1913 we [U.S.A.] have ex-
ported more than $100,000,000,000 of
goods in excess of what we have im-
ported. For about a third of this
excess we have been paid in gold, of
which we now have most of the
world’s supply. The other two-thirds
has been paid for by ‘loans,’ or
grants, to the nations with which we
do business. In other words, we have
got absolutely nothing real in return
tor the excess of labor and material
we have exported—only gold (which
has lost much of its value and which
can in no event be useful unless our
imports some day exceed our exports)
and promises which cannot be kept.”
* * * *
European Botching. —N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” comment, concluding an
editorial review of happenings in the
“cold war,” in which “at no point
is the competition between East and
West keener or more unabashed than
in Germany”: “It is all too painfully
obvious that the centre of Europe
is being reconstructed in a very un-
certain fashion. The stimulus given
to both the technological skill and
the nationalist drives within Ger-
many by the East-West competition
may produce an extremely useful
member of the European community.
But it may also bring forth a nation
rededicated to the gospel of ‘sacred
egoism,’ able and willing again to
play East against West in a naked
contest of power politics.”
* * * *
“Labor Asset.” — London “Spec-
tator” comment touching on the
company which owns London “Daily
Mirror” and which last year acquired
a controlling interest in Melbourne
“Argus” and “Australasian”: “The
‘Mirror’ itself, with a circulation of
over 4,000,000, is reckoned an asset
to the Labor party, though it is not
conspicuous for political pronounce-
ments of great profundity.”
* * * *
Fascism in Britain. —Whether or
not Thursday’s the Fascists’ hcfly
day, a London “Daily Herald” scribe
records the curious information that
on every other day of the week except
that one a Fascist meeting is held
somewhere in London. Moreover,
“There are also regular meetings at a
few provincial centres, chiefly at
Derby, Manchester and in the South
Coast towns around Brighton.”
* * * *
Maltese on Offer. —“Would any
country or countries in the world,”
asks “Manchester Guardian,” “like
to welcome a hundred thousand
immigrants from Malta? If so, the
immigrants are ready to start, with
their Government’s blessing. If not,”
it adds resignedly, “there is no solu-
tion in sight for Malta’s main prob-
lem, which is cumulative over-
population.”
* * *
Kathleen Mavourneen. —N. Y.
“Herald Tribune” writer’s cheerful
view on the duration of the “cold
war” and all that, contributed to
the speculations on Stalin’s suc-
cessor: “It is still possible that when
the great dictator dies a fierce in-
ternal struggle for power will ensue,
and it is just conceivable that this
struggle will shift the basic direction
of Soviet policy. But it is a great
deal more likely that, whether
Stalin’s power is inherited by Malen-
kov or Molotov or another, the
bitter contest which has gripped the
world will continue, not for years,
but for generations.”
* * * *
The Lucky Swiss. —There’s no need
to seek farther than that Switzerland
escaped two world wars to have the
reason why a London “Observer”
writer can now report in an article
on a visit there: “The narrow streets
are over-filled with 1949 models of
American cars, together with a few
of the more expensive British types;
the shop windows display an enor-
mous variety of goods which, to judge
from the crowds in the shops, are
within the means of the ordinary
man. There are other more tech-
nical signs of solid prosperity. Alone
amongst the West European nations,
the Swiss did not devalue at all last
summer. Indeed, the Swiss franc
can not merely look the dollar in
the face —it can outstare it, for the
dollar often sells at a discount on the
free market in Zurich.”


Holden lives up
to all the claims I
made for it! p
Scores of letters are being received telling of ||
Holden’s performance in all States and under wk
varying driving conditions. They show my
that Holden has honestly m,
lived up to the claims made
for it. And they emphasise W,
that Holden is worth |i
waiting for. m,
L
a
mm
. . 12,360 miles . . . averaged 33 m.p.g. . .
. It is used seven days per week on city taxi
work and has now run 12,360 miles. The petrol
consumption has averaged 33 m.p.g. over the
whole period, and on one trip to Victor Harbour
showed nearly 38 m.p.g. No mechanical trouble
nor any other sort of trouble has been experienced,
and on a lot of country trips, six people have been
carried. The ease of handling and parking are
one of the greatest attributes of the car, also the
feeling of robustness and solidarity of the clutch
and transmission. This, to a taxi operator, is one
of the greatest causes of expense, and I am
satisfied now that, as far as operating expense is
concerned, the Holden will prove one of the best
cars I have ever owned . . .”
F.G.P., Kilburn, S.A.
★ ★ ★
**. . . wife and five children all find room . .
. . I feel urged to express my appreciation of the
excellent design and superb performance of this
much-debated Australian car. . . My fears with
regard to the strength of the body and its load
capacity have been dispelled. First-class suspension
smooths out the roughest roads and absorbs the
toughest bumps. My wife and five children all
find room, and the boot is really capacious,
dust-proof and low for comfortable loading and
good riding. Although a tall man, I find ample
room at the wheel, with all controls handily
located. Driving is effortless and really enjoyable.
Acceleration, road-holding and cornering are
excellent, and the car is very easy to manoeuvre in
confined spaces . .
C.J.P. Loxton, S.A.
★ ★ ★
**. .. turned the city traffic .. . the countrymans
nightmare into a pleasant dream . .
, I made a 1,500 mile trip through Western
and North Western N.S.W. and proved the
suitability of this well-designed model for an
outback family car. It handled the rough
corrugated and uneven roads without the slightest
difficulty, and gave the maximum comfort through-
out, so much so that up to 400 miles we covered in a
day without any strain on either myself as driver
or my wife and young family as passengers ... Due
to the excellence of its lighting equipment, night
driving is no more strenuous than in daylight, and
with that extra nippiness it possesses over other
cars, and its wonderful manoeuvrability, it turned
the city traffic, the average countryman’s night-
mare, into a pleasant dream . .
R.E.0., Ecbuca, Vic.
★ ★ ★
. . claims ... by no means exaggerated . . .**
. A demonstration given me of the Holden
by Mr. F satisfied me that the claims, mainly
of engine performance and riding comfort, were
by no means exaggerated, but even so, I found
that I had not done the Holden full justice until,
through driving it, I was better able to appreciate
what he had to offer in the way of handling
such as cornering, a steering that at all speeds
held the road so well, etc. . .
E.D.8., Murwillumbah, N.S. W.
★ ★ ★
Holden is the one car built with the Australian
motorist’s needs and requirements in mind. The
one car designed and engineered to suit Australian
conditions —city and country. The demand for
Holden still exceeds the supply, but production
is increasing every day. Your
nearest Holden Distributor or
Dealer will be glad to give you the
latest news on delivery dates.
Australia's Own Car
HOLDEN
is worth
waiting fort
“Air Chief” Radios are
specially designed for Hol-
den. Air Chief 5-valve with
a 5-inch speaker, or Air
Chief 5-valve with an 8-
inch speaker.
nMHFBIB
■jlf Convenient hire pur-
chase terms are available
through G.M.A.C.—Gen-
eral Motors’ own finance
company.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY . MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PER r tl
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD. • BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
ITS EAS TO fly
TO SEW
r:
%
r
GLACIERS, FJORDS, GEYSERS, MOUNTAINS, GLOW-WORM
CAVES, BOILING LAKES, MAORI MUSIC AND COLOUR*
The natural wonders of the world are concentrated
in New Zealand. TEAL will take you there in *
few hours by luxurious new Solent flying boat.
Save days to enjoy yourself sight-seeing, fishing,
climbing or just taking it easy at one of New
Zealand’s fascinating, well-appointed resorts.
Fly to New Zealand by TEAL.
TEAL
PHb
Reservations:
Qantas and Leading Travel Ag en
TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITS
to association with Q. £. A., B. 0. A. C. and B. C.
and a remarkable piece of crafts-
manship it was. From a dis-
course on the vibratory qualities
of certain woods he led us to his
conservatory, where he made a
point of my taking a small gar-
den seat. I did so, and water
squirted into my ear from
a concealed nine onerated
bv the garden seaT We were
th y en led® inside for a glass of
whisky, where again a special
chair was picked for me, so I
wasn’t really surprised when it
emitted a loud whistle on being
sat on though I pretended
sai on, inougn x pici
amazement at these spirit mam-
festations—which must have
gratified Hop, as thereafter he
always acknowledged my identity
with a nod—not of dismissal,
but of greeting. And that he
had given some thought to my
spiritual welfare was revealed by
his stopping me on the stairs
to deliver a brief address
on the ethics of weekly journal-
ism as applied to The Bulletin,
Said he, “I see you about a great
deal with A. G. Stephens,
Stephens is undoubtedly a very
clever man, but I wish to warn
you against being influenced by
certain ideas of his. Those ideas
are most unsuitable for a family
P a P er f as ours \ s t e P hens
forgets that it goes into homes
where there are young girls. I
J* ave read P as |ages on the Re
P. a g e quite unfit for any young
Jo jead I wish you to re-
member that ours is a fami y
P a P er > and feel 11 m y dut y to
warn y° u a g ains t being mflu-
enced by Stephens to forget that
,mport " „ Ho ’; cartoons in .
In short, it Mop s cartoons, in
spired by captions from the wit
of Archibald and James Ed-
mond, were devised in the spirit
R hnmnr Hon him-
ot Bulletin Humor, flop mm
self was its antithesis. The sub-
stance of his being was that of
a witch-burning puritan. I re-
member Archibald telling me
that Hop once knocked a man
down in the Athenaeum Club
for hinting that there was a
double meaning in one of his
joke-gags.
But the psychology of profes-
sional humorists nearly always
presents them as personalities in
reverse of their works. Bill
Dyson struggled all his life as a
victim of temperamental de-
pression. Phil May drank
himself to death in the
guise of a good fellow. And
though Dave Low was rationally
balanced in any relation of life
t 0 wor ] C} j never heard him make
a rema rk that hinted at a
ca p ac ity to see human per-
in the terms he dr J it .
ruthlessly determined to
! rumiessiy aeiermmeu
get on, and submerged all other
tlf S' mosi
brilliant caricaturist of his
~, , ■
g w ork’while on The Bulle-
aDle worK wnue on iat nunne,
TIN - creatin g an amazmg entity
out of Billy Hughes, but he dis-
Australia and was bent on
W
§ emn § OUI OI «•
But if I am to say anything
about the art of pen-and-mk, I
must curtail presentations of
those who practised it in the
pages of The Bulletin. Some
of those had left the paper be-
fore I joined it, George Lam-
bert, who had a very graceful
pen-and-ink style ; Mahony,
whose pen-drawings have a
racial affinity with Lawson’s
short stories , Minns, who was
also an accomplished pen-
draughtsman—all of them went
to England around the end of
the century. Rossi Ashton had
left the paper in the early
’nineties; much later Leason
joined it, at a period when I had
taken a long break from weekly
journalism, and both of them
were extremely smart pen-and-
ink artists. In. short, The
Bulletin maintained, and still
maintains, a sounder tradition in
pen-and-ink work than any other
paper, save perhaps London
“Punch,” and that journal has
of late years given its pages over
to the modernistic surge of in-
fantilism in the arts.
In the ’nineties pen-and-ink
was still the medium for a
serious contribution to plastic
art, and was not, as it has since
become, a crude adjunct to
newspaper journalese. When it
was practised by such brilliant
craftsmen as Vierge, Fortuny,
Edwin Abbey, Howard Pyle,
Aubrey' Beardsley and, of course,
Phil May, its periodicals were a
delight to study, and still are
for those whose optic nerve has
not been corrupted by the
modernistic crudities that have
made such a mess of all the arts.
It was the swing-over from the
woodblock to process-etching
which produced those penmen
of the ’nineties, for they strove
to convey with the pen those
eternal technical difficulties of
form, construction, tonal values,
textures and the play of light
and shade on surfaces which the
woodblock had vastly simplified
by permitting the use of wash
and pencil along with the pen-
stroke. And to convey any re-
finement of technique the pen is,
in my opinion, the most difficult
of all plastic instruments to con-
trol, which perhaps accounts for
the fact that today it is almost
universally used as a medium for
simple line-work. And this
presents me with an exasperat-
ing anomaly, for in the days of
my early struggles with the pen
photo-etching was in a very
rudimentary state of experiment,
and could reproduce only the
simplest line-work. Today, when
photo-etching is a highly ac-
complished craft, capable of re-
producing refinements of tech-
nique in tone and line, artists
have almost universally reverted
to the simplicities of line-work
demanded by the early photo-
etchers. What wouldn’t I have
given for the present-day etching
staff of The Bulletin in those
days when I spent anxious hours
on the top floor of the old
George-street office with Ernie
Hamilton, the etcher, watching
the results of possibly etchable
experiments with pen-strokes!
For in those days the joke-
block was still based on charac-
ter and racial types, and that
implied conveying also the
background typical of both.
Anyone who goes through the
old files of The Bulletin will
find the whole cavalcade of Aus-
tralian types under inspection,
from the company-promoter to
the rabbit-oh, from the Potts
Point dame to Jiggity Jane of
the slums. Idiosyncratic charac-
ter was Archibald’s incessant de-
mand. He had a hawk’s eye for
it himself, and I rarely walked
the streets with him without
being arrested to observe some
choice sport of human identity
obviously designed to figure in
a joke-block. If you showed a
predilection for any class or type
of human antic you were en-
couraged to specialise in it. Thus
a great proportion of my gags
referred to larrikins, Domain
dossers, small boys, slum deni-
zens and drunks, and I owe to
the frequency with which the
drunk gag came my way a legend
that I was a confirmed boozer
myself, as I have heard myself
described in a railway carriage
by a gentleman who assumed to
know me, but did not know I
was sitting opposite him. But
that, once again, refers to the
normal discrepancy between a
man and his works. Souter, who
specialised in exotic society
ladies and sardonic gentlemen
in evening dress, was a short,
stocky, hardheaded Scotsman
with no hint of the social graces
about him ; the capable partner
in a printing establishment. ..
The joke-block, to have per-
manence as art, must not only
demonstrate technical excellence,
but must reflect the life of its
generation. At its best, it is an
adjunct to the novel. And that
implies it must be based on the
observation of idiosyncratic
character. And the most serious
charge that can be made against
the joke-block of today is that
it is based on a universal formula
for character. There is a
formula for army colonels,
butlers, burglars, businessmen,
girls, old women or any other
conventional type that is the
stock property of the worlds
joke-block market, so that no
(i Continued on page 67.)


fa
/A
T
&
as?"**
mb f
&
Drink
WOLFE'S
c z^romdhc
SCHNAPPS
Hot? Tired? There’s nothing
like Wolfe’s Schnapps to
revive you. Try it with iced
water, soda, lemon or cordial—
it’s refreshing.
In large, half or quarter size
bottles.
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN
AS FOR MEN
W 5.202.12
F
. r -<nai
n —a.
TOBACCONISTS TO
MS MAJESTY THE KIN 6
jJ. SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BensonaU Hedges
*
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
LTD
To mark those occasions
when charm, perfection
and easy confidence are
the keynote, nothing could
be more in keeping
than a cigarette bearing
the hallmark of
Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London —
when only the best will do.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
At its first appearance 70 years
back this page kicked off with the
momentous announcement:
“Adelong has beaten Gundagai at
cricket.”
That was the entire report of the
event. Presumably they still do battle
out there, though the most exciting
sporting news that has come to our
notice from thereabouts in recent
years concerned a dog which failed
to leave the box.
* * * *
Seeking some line of comparison
with Saturday’s racing at Randwick,
we find the first meeting recorded in
detail in Bulletin files was the
Ai.C. autumn meeting of March,
1880. Winning the Flying Handicap,
the only event run over the six-
fyrlong course, W. S. Hill’s chestnut
filly Clarenza, carrying a mere tickler
of 6.12, clocked 1.18 and four-
tenths. At Flemington, round the
same time o’ year, 1.18-i was good
enough to enable Aspen to win the
Newmarket with a similar feather-
weight of 6.8. At Randwick on
Saturday last the Hua gelding San
Domenico, carrying 9.10 and spotting
other runners from 221 b. to 451b.,'
won the Challenge Stakes in I.lo|.
However much racing surfaces may
have improved in the interim, surely
the differences represented by these
figures cannot be ascribed purely to
that factor, as some stalwart belittlers
of present-day horses will maintain.
San Domenico’s win was the best
of his brilliant career. Anchored by
his solid weight and surrounded by
some very speedy customers carrying
next to nothing, he couldn’t stay with
the early pace, and was soon well
back in the field. At the top of the
straight San Domenico had nine of
the 13 other runners still ahead of
him, and he was seven or eight
lengths behind the leader Hesdin, but
the run home saw a brilliant display
of sheer class, with San Domenico
getting up to win by a neck from
High Jip (7.8), who had hit the front
at the distance. Sheba was third and
Crag Son, finishing well, fourth.
Crag Son is one we are much dis-
posed to keep in mind for one of the
major mile handicaps.
Ridden by A. Ward and trained
nowadays by his owner, R. P. For-
mosa, San Domenico started a hot
favorite at 5 to 4, with Beau Robert
(7 to 1) and Wattle (9 to 1) the only
others under double figures. Last
year San Domenico won the Chal-
lenge Stakes with 8.5, and then
headed south to win the Oakleigh
Plate with 8.11. He is off now to
have another lash at the Oakleigh
and, of course, the Newmarket.
A favorite saying with physical-
culture experts is that “It’s very easy
to put on weight, but awfully hard
tO , ,lV e it off,” and it’s a phrase
whicn seems, too, very much applic-
able to racing. One or two good
wins soon send a horse bounding up
in the weights, but once a horse has
proven himself “class” he seems to
stay up in the weights despite any
number of failures. Then an eventual
win presumably proves that the
handicapper has been right all along.
One case in point on Saturday was
San Domenico and another the 1947
Sydney Cup and Chelmsford Stakes
winner Proctor. Proctor won the
cup with 7.10, and six months later,
in October, 1947, won the Chelmsford
Stakes, which is at weight-for-age.
Without winning a'nother race in
two years odd, he was, in Saturday’s
January Handicap, nevertheless
given topweight of 9.5 and asked
to concede others 141 b. and upwards.
Just to confound the critics, Proctor
won Saturday’s race, but he was
claiming a 71b. allowance for ap-
prentice R. Campbell, reducing his
weight to 8.12. Proctor won comfort-
ably from Lone Duke and the
favorite Tamarind, who turned in a
remarkable performance to gain a
place after breaking down approach-
ing the turn.
Best of other performances noted
at Randwick were Dona Marcheta’s
go-to-whoa victory in the mile Vali-
care Handicap for three-year-old
fillies, and Star Bloom’s effortless
winning of the Sledmere Handicap,
which saw two-year-old fillies have
their first taste of a six-furlongs
journey. A daughter of Talking, Star
Bloom looks the cut of a stayer.
* * * *
Racing in Melbourne on Saturday
was at Moonee Valley, a course
which is a few years junior to this
page.. The first meeting at Moonee
Valley, previously a farm property,
was held on September 15, 1883, and
the first race, incidentally, resulted in
a deadbeat. With the camera’s hair-
splitting eye on proceedings, com-
paratively few deadbeats are recorded
nowadays, but, by coincidence, there
was one on Saturday, favorite First
Glance and Prince d’Amour tying
for second place behind Gay Leander
(J. Purtell) in the mile Kalkallo
Handicap for three-year-old colts and
geldings.
Judging by the bunch of cracker-
jack speedsters at present getting into
trim, the rich autumn sprint races —
Oakleigh, Futurity and Newmarket
—should be real thrillers this year.
Saturday’s main event was the £2OOO
William Reid Stakes, run over the
Valley sprint distance of six furlongs ,
less 20yds., and giving the handicapper
the problem of distributing some
splendid sprinters and one or two
just moderates between the limits of
a 9.4 maximum and a 7.5 minimum.
Ungar was accorded the honors,
Comic Court next with 9.2, then
Chanak (8.12), St. Razzle (8.11),
Phoibos (8.10) and Filipino (8.8).
Placegetters were three fresh in from
a spell. Filipino hit the front at the
turn and just lasted out to beat
Comic Court, who, coming from far
back in the field, couldn’t quite
bridge the gap in the short run home;
St. Razzle was third. It was a
splendid result for the books, the un-
placed trio Ungar, Phoibos and Regal
Scout being pretty well equal favor-
ites, while Comic Court was the only
other really in demand. Filipino
started at twelves.
While first-class sprinters are on
hand in abundance, the same can-
not be said of the stayers. Emphasis-
ing the poorish quality of the stayers
in action at the moment, the princi-
pal staying test of the card for the
second time in recent weeks went to
a maiden performer. The race, and
a particularly roughly-run one, too,
was the 13-furlongs Cranmallan
Handicap, which saw the five-year-
old Scientist gelding Sir Marconi (W.
Williamson) win narrowly from
Tyrian and Tamahine.
In the Cranmallan Handicap the
well-backed Land Tax fell at pretty
well the same spot where, in the
previous race, Tea Cake and favorite
Dupont had come to grief. With the
favorite thus disposed of the mile
Caldermeade Handicap saw second-
favorite Dumfries (J. Vasil) win
pretty easily from Fordham and El
Faloos. Winning respectively the
second Kalkallo Handicap and the
Magdala Highweight, Golden Field
(W. Williamson) and Law List (R.
Heather) were both favorites, but
Miss Suzanne (S. Ruane), beating
other two-year-olds in the Niddrie
Handicap, was, at 9 to 1, surpris-
ingly neglected for a filly who a few
weeks back equalled the long-stand-
ing Moonee Valley five-furlongs
record.
* * * *
Venturing a shade outside its own
field, the first Bulletin sporting page
turned in one fair effort of long-
range tipping with this item:
“A great race of six days’ duration
in California between men and
horses resulted in favor of the nags,
and as the horse Pinafore covered
559 miles it must be accepted that
the horse can outlast man. But
nothing can run as long as ‘Pina-
fore.’ ”
The Gilsullivan classic, which has
been running a steady course ever
since, happens to be again a starter
in Melbourne at His Majesty’s this
weekend. *
* * * *
Interesting to note among the sires
of the season advertised by William
Inglis and Son at least one represen-
tative of Nearco, sjre of two English
Derby winners, including last year’s
winner, Nimbus. Standing at Lionel
Israel’s Segenhoe Stud, Scone
(N.S.W.), is Nilo, a son of Nearco-
Dodoma. Nilo, who himself raced
very successfully, is a three-quarter
brother to Nasrullah, sire of last
year’s Oaks winner Musidora.
* * ♦ ♦
The Australian lawn-tennis cham-
pionships, concluded at Kooyong,
Melbourne, on Monday, seemed in a
sense to mark the approaching end
of a sporting era with the singles
final fought out by 22-year-old Sedg-
man and 20-year-old McGregor. It
was an era which might be said to
have opened in 1937 when a 19-year-
old John Bromwich reached the finals
at White City, Sydney. And fittingly,
the current championships saw the
Old Firm of Bromwich and Quist,
who won the Davis Cup for Aus-
tralia in 1939, establish a record
likely to stand for many years when
they won the national doubles title
for the eighth time in succession.
Quist and Brom. beat the Czech
Drobny and the S’African Sturgess
6-3, 5-7, 4-6, 6-3, 8-6. The women’s
singles final was fought out by the
visiting American lasses Louise
Brough and Doris Hart, with Miss
Brough downing the titleholder
6-4, 3-6, 6-4.
* * * *
Maintaining their unbeaten record,
the Australian tourists in S’Africa
turned in their best performance to
date to beat South Africa in the third
Test at Durban last week. After
losing the toss, the tourists quickly
found themselves in the same pre-
carious position in which they had
had the opposition in the previous
Tests. The S’Africans had first use
of a pitch which looked from the
start likely to play tricks, and they
put in a couple of good days’ work
in knocking up 311 and then dis-
missing the visitors for a paltry
75. S’African skipper Nourse then
had to decide the ticklish problem
whether to bat again or make the
tourists follow on; the rights and
wrongs of his decision to bat himself
could be argued till doomsday.
Collapsing in sorry fashion in their
second dig, the home team obtained
only 99, which nevertheless, left the
Australians something to chase on an
unfavorable pitch. But they responded
splendidly. Things admittedly looked
grim at one stage, with Morris stiff
to tread on his wicket when nicely
settled-in at 44, and Moroney, Miller
and Hassett all out l.b.w, for 10, 10
and 11 respectively. But the reason
Australia has been unbeaten in post-
war cricket has been that right down
to the bottom of the batting-list
there is always somebody to come
to light with a matcfnsaving score
when those higher up the list have
failed. This time it was young Neil
Harvey, who made the winning hit
after a grand innings of 151 n.o.
Supporting Harvey, Loxton made 54
before being bowled by Mann, ami
McCool was 39 n.o. when the Aus-
tralians finished proceedings with a
tally of 336 for five wickets. It
would be presumptuous to speak of
any player filling Bradman’s shoes,
but Harvey looks likely to go closest
to doing so in the next few years.
* * * ♦
The all-important N.S.W. v. Vic-
toria match, which decides the
destination of the Sheffield Shield this
season, was in progress at Sydney
Cricket Ground as this page went to
press. At that time the ’Walers had
gained an initial advantage by toting
up a respectable tally of 312 and dis-
missing the Victorians for 123, but
they were not shaping too stylishly in
the second innings, with four'of the
N.S.W. batsmen gone and only 89 on
the board. Destroyer of the Vic-
torians in the first innings was A.
Davidson, whose 11 overs snared five
wickets at a total cost of 28 runs.
The other Shield match in progress
at the weekend was Westralia v.
South Australia in Perth. Westralia’s
first-innings effort was 277, and South
Australia was in process of respond-
ing in kind with seven down for 203.
* * * *
As soon •as the Shield series is
wound up the chosen few will be
packing bags for the New Zealand
tour to be skippered by Queensland’s
Bill Brown, Others named in the team
for New Zealand are: P, Ridings
(S.A.), J. Burke (N.S.W.), A. David-
son (N.S.W.), W. Driver (W.A.), L.
Duldig (S.A.), R. Howard (Vic.), J.
Iverson (Vic.), L. Johnson (Q.), K.
Meuleman (Vic.), C. Puckett (W.A.),
D. Ring (Vic.), S. Sismey (N.S.W.)
and D, Tallon (Q.). Principal
criticism possible of the selection is
that promising young players (one in
Particular being De Courcy of N.S.W.)
ave been largely overlooked. Eight
of the 14 chosen are in their ’thirties,
with a couple crowding 40.
* * * *
Yet another world boxing title went,
or rather returned, to America last
week when challenger Joey Maxim
(12.6£) gave titleholder Freddie Mills,
of England, a fearful hiding at Earl’s
Court, London. The bout ended in
the 10th round with Mills flat on the
deck, sans consciousness, sans quite
a few teeth and sans title —his only
acquisitions a cut of the gate and a
broken jaw. Mills had taken the title
from the elderly Gus Lesnevich in
1948. On the same bill as the title
fight last week Australian heavyweight
Alf Gallagher cleaned up one Carl
Walls, a Canadian.


0/dfriends
ore be sf friends!
The
name is_
°*o
'*7s*
Ci&
CD
Z^k
'°°Vt
(Dudluro’s
The uihiskij ie_
GUARD
PROTECTA
TILL
Suitable for every type of bu*lne»s it record*
all Sale*. Credits, Payout* etc. Strongly built,
pleating la appearance. Send for full detail*
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agent*—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
PERTH •
W. C Penfold A Co. Pty. Ltd.
. Norman Bros. Pty, Ltd.
. Vardon A Sons Ltd.
# Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
"PheHovis" Worm Remedy
i arching time i $
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT OT
GRAZCOS."
Yolk, Stain and Fly-strike.
“Graz”: Wet, humid weather,
being ideal for the growth of
bacteria, is conducive to
weather-stain in fleeces. Since
the aim of woolgrowers is to
produce long - stapled, dense-
fibred wool and as such fleeces
retain moisture longer and are
warmer next to the skin, bac-
terial development is more
troublesome in sheep bearing
this type of wool. Loose wool
dries more readily and is less
prone to weather-stain, but the
fleeces are light.
Some years ago Holdaway and
Mulhearn, of the . C.5.1.R.0.,
reported that yolk color is due
to several substances exuded
from the sebaceous, sweat and
skin glands. Apart from render-
ing fleeces more susceptible to
weather-stain and fly attack ex-
cess yolk also depreciates their
market value.
Investigations by Stewart and
Rimington, and later by Hold-
away and Mulhearn, indicated
that yellow yolk is a transmis-
sible character. By culling and
breeding from sheep having
bright wool only, yellow yolk
has been practically eliminated.
Disease-free Cattle.
“Bulago”: At next Sydney
Royal Show all cattle entries
must carry a veterinary certifi-
cate of freedom from t.b. and
contagious abortion. This step
would have been taken years
ago, but the shortage of
veterinary surgeons made test-
ing impossible.
Shows and saleyards, where
animals from'all over the coun-
try are brought into close con-
tact and drink at the same
troughs, constitute perhaps the
greatest medium of infection,
not only of t.b. and c.a. but of
pink-eye, foot-rot and many
other diseases. The risk is much
higher in saleyards where the
animals do not get the same
care as show animals; all the
same, studmasters who declined
to compete at local or State
shows because of the risk of in-
fection could not be blamed.
This was particularly so where
herds had been brought to a
stage of freedom from t.b. and
c.a. at considerable expense in
testing and the discarding of
often valuable animals affected
or suspect. Where animals were
sent to shows from tested herds
the owners had to submit all ex-
hibits and new purchases to
another test on their return.
However, the provisions are
still too loose, and must be im-
proved, For instance, the R.A.S.
provides disinfected stalls at
Moore Park for the cattle, the
owner sees to it that his cattle
are sound before leaving the
property. But to get to Sydney
the cattle usually have to travel
by rail in wagons that are dirty
and may have been used by
diseased cattle a few days earlier.
The Railway Department must
do its share by fumigating and
disinfecting wagons used for
show stock.
A flaw in the regulations is
that exhibits need be tested only
within six months of the Show.
This is far too long; cattle that
give a negative test in October
could easily become infected be-
fore they left for Sydney. Ad-
mittedly it wouldn’t be easy to
test on the eve of the Show
cattle scattered all over the
Commonwealth, but the period
must be shortened.
Cattle for export have to be
tested within 10 days of embar-
kation. It demands considerable
work and organising to get the
tests through before the animal
leaves for embarkation, and
could not be done on the scale
demanded by the huge cattle
entries at Sydney unless the
supply of vets and laboratory
facilities was at least thrice
what it is today.
It could, however, be reduced
to three months, which, while
not perfect, gives a greater
margin of protection than at
present. The ideal would be for
all exhibitors to come under the
Government t.b. and c.a. tested
herd schemes. Under present
conditions these are the only
studs which can offer a real
guarantee.
The opportunity of being able
to buy certified stud stock will
be of considerable value to
buyers, particularly where the
animal is destined for export to
other States or beyond the
Commonwealth.
Stringhalt.
“Equine”: It is there when
the horse suddenly jerks its hind
feet high off the ground and
drives them down hard. The
hind-legs appear to be uncon-
trollable, and it is worse when
the horse is walking and
diminishes to a certain extent
when trotting. It can be due to
brain and nerves being affected
by excessive eating of dandelions
in flower. It is also associated
with heavy infestation of bots
and worms in the stomach.
To treat, keep the horse in a
yard or preferably a large
horse-box with a soft floor. Give
a physic-ball and a bot-bomb
and feed lightly on chaff, bran,
“Are you together P”
lucerne-hay, a pint of oats each
meal and some greenfeed. When
the horse appears to be in>
proving it may be let into a
small yard for exercise. Usually
affected animals recover, a few
never do and others may not
recover for months.
New Minister Wanted.
“5 G.R.”; One authority
assessed Australia’s rabbit popu-
lation at something like
500.000. Rabbits crossed
into Westralia many years ago,
and I saw them north of Alice
Springs in 1944, burrowing in
the Mac Donnell Ranges, eating
out the grasses and causing ero-
sion there as they do every-
where. Without the rabbit, I
reckon Australia could carry
71.000. more sheep.
After flooding rains last Sep-
tember rabbits in western Vic-
toria were sitting out just wait-
ing to be shot, but landmen were
short of .22 ammunition. My
grazier host shot 105 in one
morning with only five misses.
In that one morning’s shooting
he fired away a month’s allow-
ance of bullets.
He has been trying to buy
wire-netting for years, and to
add to his joys his property is
bisected by a State railway, the
embankments of which are
pock - marked with rabbit -
burrows which are not the sub-
ject of report by local rabbit-
inspectors. With headlights full
on we saw thousands of rabbits
enjoying State immunity, as it
were, while eating a soldier-
grazier’s grass and fouling his
land.
During the war Australia pro-
duced a surplus of small-arms
ammunition while fully supply-
ing her own forces at home and
abroad, yet today she cannot pro-
duce anything like the quantities
of shotgun and rifle ammunition
necessary to combat a national
pest.
Following lush seasons, the
rabbit is menacing the sheep in-
dustry, and graziers and farmers
cannot cope with it. Manpower,
ammunition, netting and gases
are short. There is room in the
Federal Cabinet for an extra
portfolio embracing erosion-
control, tree-planting, rabbit-ex-
termination, water- and general
conservation, closely allied with
scientists of the C.5.1.R.0.
Reducing Farrowing Losses.
“Jock”: The College of Agri-
culture of the University of
Kentucky (U.S.A.) has produced
an idea for reducing losses
caused by overlying by the sow.
A sloping floor made of 6in.
undressed hardwood boards
nailed to sloping joists has a
slope of Sin. in sft. This in-
duces the sow to lie with her
legs downhill.
When born the young pigs
move downhill to the protec-
tion of a hover-board, set about
a foot up from the floor and a
foot wide. It must be strong.
On this hover-board is mounted
a brooder-lamp (150-watt to 60-
watt, depending on the weather).
The sloping floor is best made
as a portable article (to allow
easy cleaning) and laid on a
concrete floor. The joists are
sloped, and the 6in. boards
nailed on with iin. gaps for
grip. Farrowing-rails are added
lOin. above the floor.
Beating Insect Pests.
“Pat Ater”: Surface-cultiva-
tion has little to do with keep-
ing insect pests down, except
where weeds may harbor them,
and then it is simply weeding’
a most important procedure in
gardening.
“Cloudy” (B. 18 /1/’5O) had
better look further than the soil
for his insect population and to
something more than that
dribble of formalin to kill off
eelworms, whatever their clan
or variety. Eelworms are the
worst pest of the daffodil-
grower. Lifted bulbs are treated
successfully enough with hot-
water baths, but treatment of
the soil to prevent reinfestation
is another thing.
To get at the worms down to
subsoil level would require
hundreds pf gallons of formalin
solution for even a 10ft. by sft.
patch of soil.
Now we have specific eel-
worms attacking chrysanthe-
mums (in leaf, stem and root)
and gardenias, as well as food
crops of tubers. More success-
ful in eelworm - control is
chloropictron or D.D. (not
D.D.T.), which needs special
syringe-like apparatus to inject
it deeply at intervals.
But growing plants can’t be
treated that way without
damage, so newer specifics are
being tried. Spraying and
watering with an iodine solution
(one in 2000) has been partly
successful.
Manurial insecticide will kill
springtails, which are not a
menace, as they feed only on
decaying tissue. Wireworms are
bad in few localities, and
generally are unimportant. Rub
off millipedes. Cutworms, which
hide in the soil crevices and do
enormous damage at times, are
best controlled by bran and cal-
cium-arsenate baits.
It’s the fliers and hoppers
which worry us most. Thrips,
which carry virus diseases
(bronzy wilt on tomatoes, for
example) and spoil foliage;
aphides, sap - suckers ; green-
shield bugs ; red-spider ; bean-
flea ; jassids ; scales ; 28-spotted


[acme a parr
The one tiling you will imme-
diately notice when vou stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a part . . . yet
It is merely "round the comer"
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
... the service and cuisine
excellent
THE WENTWORTH
In
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NTJ liquid NU-METAL
tbrough plug hojes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you In a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Cafi, write, or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.'s phis
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return ND-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
I enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me Illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name....
Address...
■ B. l/2/’i
BRISTOL TRADING COMP A
, a m 1 A F1 ?? r ' Bristol House,
Iw Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA ’
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT A
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL
HOUSE OF MURPHY, a blend
enol h gh f t grade 0f leaf to giV'
2/ of n Sat m aet l 0n tha t a
preier. a/. per lb> p oste( j
AA.A. HILLTOP. A blond
“ a
& ?s;?; co ,
•®V!aS?Si rsa
tSSSVL? StWt " *«•«
Write tos Cash Order Depl
Hillman Trading Co
Commercial Road, Brisbant
P PoZl Paid t m Cash **th order,
tage Mtr “ on 0.0. D. Order*.
New Invention Controls
rupture
Th *°, ® pr ' n 8 s No Cushions
brings to runtnr^ Dr * L * Barrere
new method P <if n su , ffe , rers an entirely
40 years’' mi' 0011 ™ ’ the result of
Proved comt)W IC i e and im P r °vemenls,
who hav“Trie d l ? SUCCeSBfui ali
ha .n/when A p2 E fl af 8 like the
effort
intestine iniff £ZT ’ h ° ld the
BARREB p fo i T FREE UTERATURE.
(Dept. 26v) E 24S Pr R^ BTJTION co -
D VI. 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
the
armidale school
N.S.W.
PUBLIC
situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT climate
Bom the r *J. 6e Parat.
“■ *■ "“HU, B.So„
- Headmaster.
when consigning your dip—
everything
points
■■ to
<7 Years In the Service of the Man en the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863
JUM.Lf.iI
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE. LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches: — N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina, Cooma ‘and Deniliquin.
Q land: Townsville, Oharleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi,
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd,, Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalh.y and
Pittsworth, Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, H. P. Veness & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Winton. Vic.: Wodonga, Korumburra.
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Banff Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £10,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
Low cost Crude Oil operation
for MEDIUM power users!
Here’s the pre-war famous Lanz **L M
Model bringing once more amazing
economy of crude oil operation in a
30 H.P. Tractor suitable for every
medium power need. With only 8
main moving parts in its simple,
single-cylinder, slow-moving engine,
30 H.P. LANZ cuts wear and main-
tenance to the barest minimum and
can actually save you as much as
£1,500 in 10 years on the running costs
of any other type of tractor. A saving
which more than refunds the capital
invested in your new Lanz Tractor.
There is a K.L. Bulldog or Lanz Cmd^
30, 40 & 45 H.P. MODELS
Oil Tractor in the range of 30, 40 and
45 h.p. models to ideally suit the
requirements of your farm—large or
small. See your local Bulldog Agent
Simplest , Strongest , Most Economical
Tractors—Ever Built I
K.L.&H/UUIZ
BULLDOG
TRACTORS
State Distributors:
N.S.W., Dangar, Gedye 8t Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young St., Sydney. VICTORIA, K.L. Tractor Sale* Pty. Ltd., 304
Spencer St., Melb. SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Elder, Snrrfth & Co. Ltd., 27-31 Currie St., Adelaide. WESTERN
AUSTRALIA, Kelly & Lewi* (W.A.) Pty. Ltd., 349 William St.. Perth. TASMANIA. K.L. Distributors Pty. Ltd..
233 Elizabeth St.. Hobart. QUEENSLAND, K.L. Tractor SalesPty. Ltd., 121 Brunswick St.. Valley, Brisbane.
KL2O3
ladybirds and grubs moths
and butterflies. These are the
damage-doers, and they all need
D.D.T. spray to knock them.
But don’t put D.D.T. on cucur-
bits, which in turn are “knocked”
by D.D.T. Use hexone there.
And for red-spider use lime and
sulphuric dusts freely, even on
the underside of bean leaves.
White-oil for most scales, except
white wax.
New Butter Process.
“Horseless H.”: A new con-
tinuous butter-making machine
now working on trial at Vic-
toria’s leading butter-factory, at
Noorat, in the Western District,
may revolutionise butter-making
throughout Australia.
The new machine is an Aus-
tralian invention, and the first
of its kind to be installed in a
butter-factory. It does away
with churning, and has been in-
stalled at Noorat by the Aus-
tralian Dairy Production Board.
Under the new process milk
received is handled in the usual
manner until it passes through
the separator. From there the
cream is carried to a special
“cream separator,” which divides
it into 80 parts of butterfat and
20 parts of skim. The butterfat
is taken to a vat, where it is
standaudised for salt and mois-
ture. In this process portion of
the butterfat skim is fed back
into the butterfat.
Under vacuum pressure the
standardised butterfat then
enters the extruder of the new
machine, where, in a brine solu-
tion several degrees below zero,
the fat is shock-freezed into
butter.
The finished article comes
out of the machine continuously
at 30 degrees Fahrenheit.
Some Super. Figures.
“N.s.West”: Fertiliser Usage
in Australia, by R. A. Boyle,
M. just published by Nitro-
gen Fertilisers, Ltd., gives some
interesting data. Super, dres-
sings for wheat-production vary
among the States thus:
Average
ktete- per acre.
W.A 97 1 b.
S-A BHb.
Vic 7Hb.
N-S.W 391 b.
Stated in terms of cost of ferti-
liser per £lOO-worth of yield
(1939 values), the figures are
even more striking;
Crops and
State. Crops only. grazing.
WA. .. £l4 16 o £ll 12 0
S-A. ~ 8 4 0' 680
Vic. ~ 7 8 0 5 6 0
Q. ... 4 16 0 2 6 0
Tas. ~ 420 3 18 0
N. .. 3 12 0 1 15 0
These tables suggest (1) that
N.S.W. earns her crust too
easily, or (2) that she might, if
pushed, earn a very much better
crust. Boyle points out, of
course, that water is the limiting
factor in most of Australia’s
agriculture. Whereas in the past
phosphorus (super.) dominated
the fertiliser market, there is a
definite trend towards the use of
nitrogen (ammonium sulphate,
etc.) in many areas and for an
increasing variety of crops.
There are indications, too, that
potash may yet assume an im-
portance more in keeping with
its place in European agricul-
ture. These trends are most
pronounced in areas of good
rainfall.
Price of super, has soared —
£3 10s. on rails in 1939, now
£9 Is, Rise is due mainly to
extra cost of winning and
freighting Pacific rock and to
cost of sulphur, which, like
petrol, is almost an Uncle Sam
monopoly.
Consumption of sulphate of
ammonia rose from 16,000 tons
in 1932 to 56,000 in 1939.
(During 1939-1947 consumption
was limited by scarcity.) Queens-
land takes the lion’s share for
sugar, pineapples, etc. By-
product sulphate is at present
being supplemented by imports,
but by 1952 the big synthetic
ammonium sulphate plant at
Hobart will be producing, and
we may again be self-supporting
—unless demand by that time
again overtakes production; a
possibility according to Boyle.
[ln regard to the N.S.W.
figures in his tables, “N,s.West”
overlooks that roughly a fourth
of the N.S.W. wheatbelt not
only doesn’t use artificial ferti-
liser but is on short fallow. This
is the State’s north-west, noted
for its heavy crops.]
Hints for the Farm.
“Gem”: If it is absolutely
necessary to mix concrete in
frosty weather, throw in a handful
of salt to aid bonding. Mixing
concrete with salt-water delays
the hardening and temporarily
retards the development of
strength, but has no ultimate
effect. With lime-plaster it is
the opposite, the salt in the
plaster attracting moisture, which
causes expansion and contrac-
tion and eventually bad crack-
ing.
“Malo”: Roosters are un-
profitable and should be sold
when mature. Those kept for
breeding should be removed
from the pens when the chicken-
hatching period has passed.
Hens lay more and larger eggs,
which keep better, when no
rooster is about. Though appa-
rently very gallant, the males eat
more than their share of food
and give little in return.
“W. Court”; Cleaning out the
gullies should mean getting rid
of bushy growths, logs and
boulders. Tall grasses won’t
cause overflowing, but they’ll
slow the rush of floodwaters and
catch the silt being carried
downstream. It isn’t so much
flowing water that cuts stream
verges as the rough material
coming down with it. Grasses
shouldn’t be cleaned out of
gullies or so heavily grazed by
stock that they cannot hold the
soil. The only stones that should
be taken out are those that are
damming the water and caus-
ing overflowing.
“L.M.G.”: About 20 years ago
my ewes had a lot of pregnancy
toxaemia trouble. 1 used a cup-
ful of molasses mixed with water
and got excellent results.
Neighbors used the same remedy
with the same results. I likened
it to milk-fever in cattle. Use
the molasses as soon as you
notice the ewes begin to stagger.


fot essenl tol hansoon
'
ij|| /
ra
M
4'«
am
m mm
msi
i < m>f V
H■•■•
89
Vlumpit
am
TRUCK TYRES
100%di/sftwfan •% « Cftantfiwns cffAe facra
A PRODUCT OF THE 01Y1RF1C TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
OT'32
TRUCK OPERATORS
PREFER...
B efore you travel on business or pleasure you should
obtain a supply of Commonwealth Bank Travellers
Cheques. Issued in £5 denomination, these cheques
provide complete protection for your funds. They may
be cashed free of inland exchange at any branch ot any
bank in Australia, and, are readily accepted by pnncipa
tourist bureaux, transport offices, hotels, etc.
As your signature and counter-signature are necessary
on all cheques before they may be cashed, they are safer
than money. For carefree travel use Commonwealth
Bank Travellers' Cheques, obtainable at any branch.
OTHER HELPFUL COMMONWEALTH BANK
SERVICES INCLUDE CHEQUE ACCOUNT,
i fttfrs of cR E D IT, OVERDRAFTS*
INTEREST-BEARING DEPOSITS, HOUSING
LOANS, FINANCE FOR INDUSTRY OR
PRIMARY PRODUCTION. EXPORT AND
IMPORT CREDITS. SAFE CUSTODY.
CommoirmUtifc
oflustralia.
Friendly and practical advice on banking
financial matters is available to you at every Branch.
THE BAGS
ARE PACKED
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
fo r w ise men
“The North Devons, whose proud
battle honors included service at
Ladysmith in the Indian Mutiny
under General White, occupied Vic-
toria Barracks for nine colorful years
of Australian history.”
—Sydney “Daily Mirror
And at Lucknow during the
Boer War, too!
4*
“It is estimated that last year eight
million chickens were hatched by the
small home poultry-keepers. If these
chicks came from 25,000 eggs (says
a commentator in ‘Poultry Farmer’)
then this operation of small-time in-
cubating was most uneconomical.”
—Melbourne “Weekly Times.”
If not uneconomical, at least
320 chickens from each egg
would be one mad scramble.
Torrid Toreador.
“Girl bullfighter to marry.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
They first met when she was
only a picador’s apprentice and
he a hoofer in a Barcelona bur-
lesque house. It was only calf-
love at the start, but soon they
began to veal so tenderly about
each other they agreed to wed.
The marriage kicked off happily
enough, but it wasn’t long be-
fore she began to lead him a
cow of a life. Her clothing bills
made him see red, but she re-
fused to pull her horns in and
invariably goaded him to des-
peration with the assertion that
she’d spend what she damn’ well
liked, not caring whether it
matador not. For his part, he
had the hide to come home full
every second night, and she
beefed about that. Then one
evening she discovered that he’d
gone out to meat a certain little
senorita on the side and bel-
lowed in a fury that if heifer he
did it again it would be the end.
And he did, and it was. Now
they’re divorced, both convinced
that all they’d ever heard about
‘•‘wedded bliss” was just a lot
of bull. cal.
“Fashion at the moment is rather
hard on the short and not-so-slim.”
— Woman’s magazine.
But even the thin must have a
fat purse to keep up appear-
ances.
Unpalatable Incident.
“In Coatbridge (Scotland) Law-
rence Marshall gave his girl-fnend.
a set of false teeth, caught her with
another man, yanked them out.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.
Though Sandy repossessed the
set
When his false lassie he had
seen
With some strange lad it’s safe
to bet
That he was not by nature
mean.
Nor was he of the jealous sort
That burn with anger just to
see
The object of their love disport
Herself in others’ company.
What was it, then: just plain
disgust.
That moved this lover to
forsake
The rules of courtesy ? No,
just
The principle of give and take.
D. H. E.
Cuttlefish Cutlery.
“An octopus caught off the isle of
Capri had a silver, fork and sp9on
clutched in its tentacles. A diver
made a search of the area and located
£17,000-worth of stolen silverware.”
Following are some comments
culled from varied sources, and
including an original poem from
the brilliant pen of Emperor
Hirohito:
Signor Prevari Cator, the
fisherman who made the haul:
“Me and-a my onsider Giuseppe
we pulla da net, da oc’ he tug-a
da tentac’, we pulla da haul, da
oct’ he spitta da ink, cop
Giuseppe in-a da lamp. My on-
sider he get much-a mad.
Giuseppe he strong-a fella,
like-a da Gorgarzol’; beeg-a da
chest, arms fulla da muse’. He
geev-a da beeg heave, da oct’
lob in-a da boat. Giuseppe he
“Sunbaking again, Chalmers?”
breathe-a da garlic on da oct’,
da oct’ he fold up. Cprpo di
Bacch’! Da oct’ look-a da fun’,
hold-a da fork, da spoon, da
salt-shake, da menu, bib round-a
da neck, bang-a da fork on plate
like-a da Tony’s restaurant. But
nothing to speak-a of. Plenty
oct’ like that around Capri,
si!”
Ima Yesmanski, the Soviet
Charge d’Affaires: “The octo-
pus is the symbol of the war-
mongering capitalists who grind
the faces of their slave-workers
and who try to force them to
take up arms against their com-
rade-workers of the peace-loving
Soviet. The idea that Italians
were the first to capture an
octopus that uses a spoon and
fork i§, however, untrue. Russia
has that honor —Ivan the
Terrible had several octopuses
which he trained to eat at his
castle on the Dnieper with forks
and spoons, which, of course,
were invented by the early
Russians, just as were the atom-
bomb, radar, television and the
electric-lamp the result of the
inventive genius of their bril-
liant Soviet counterparts.”
Salvador Dali, the famous
surrealist painter: “The vision
of an octopus holding a fork
and spoon is really nothing un-
usual. Before painting my cele-
brated canvas ‘Moonrise Over
the Gas Factory,’ which depicts
a purple eviscerated cat leaning
against half a grandfather clock,
with a yellow winged concrete-
mixer in the middle-distance
and in the foreground a series
of concentric circles bisected by
a skeleton, my subconscious
mind impelled me to the in-
spiration following my vision of
a jellyfish balanced on a trapeze
while wearing a bowler-hat with
a miner’s lamp on it and holding
a bishop’s mitre —this in turn
stemmed from a midnight re-
past of cherry-brandy, tripe and
watercress.”
Marcelle, head - waiter at
Galahno’s: “Ze fact zat ze
octopus eats only poisson
renders hees holding of ze fork
an’ ze spoon a breach of ze
etiquette. In ze absence of
feesh-knife and -fork ze proper
zing would be deux forks,
n’est-ce pas? But feesh with
a spoon and fork —nevaire!
Most certainement I would be
compel’ to refuse ze creature a
table.”
Hiram Q. Katzenblinker,
famous Hollywood prodoocer
of colossal epics: “Yep, we
figger to use the story. The
fillunl will cahst around two-
hunnerd grand. Bun Heck,
our ace script-writer, will do the
jahb—he’ll add love-interest so
we can use Fanny Fetherbrane,
the stoodio’s top current sex-
appeal. We ain’t certain yet
whether it’s to be a murder-
smuggler-gunmen set-up with a
rugged background or a slap-up
technicolor super-musical in a
Hawaiian setting with Frankie
(“Death”) Slimatra in hoof-an’-
yawp with hula-hula lovelies.
But it’ll be a sure-fire wow. Yes,
sir, the colossalest, stupen-
dousest, magnificentest thing in
the fillum colony’s history.”
Baron Munchausen III: “The
story may seem spectacular, but
it is really nothing. Compared
with some of the peculiar sub-
marine sights observed by my
illustrious grandfather, this one
is really pale and puerile. On
one occasion he actually taught
a giant devil-fish to play
Deutschland Über Alles on a
trombone note-perfect, and to
add up three columns of figure*
simultaneously. The family has
always regretted that in those
days there was no recording
equipment * available which
would have added confirmation
to his truthful narratives.”
Colonel Robert McCormick,
of the Chicago “Tribune”; “It
was probably a British octopus
a bit off its usual beat, waiting,
like the forty-eight million Im-
perialists on the tight little isle,
for a cheap feed at the expense
of the American taxpayers, who
number among them more
suckers than those on the ten-
tacles of all the octopuses
around the British Isles.”
Emperor Hirohito and the
muse: —
“Someone in the palace
Kindly showed me a
Press cutting about an
Octopus which held
Something in its tentacles.
Do yhu not think
This is extremely interesting?
I think I do.
Anyway”
BO.
We Can Take It.
“When a boy had a double dose
of Old Harry in his nature he was
cured by the cane. Trouble would
be saved if we brought up the
juveniles under that system instead of
the rather sentimental way we are
now following.”
—Adelaide clergyman.
He is a fool who casts a haze
Of sentiment round youthful
days »
And tells himself he’d like again
Those bygone years when lads
unhappy
Stood trembling while some
tyrant snappy
Swished with delight a wicked
cane.
And yet, though I may be a fool,
I hanker for the older school,
When, like a million other mulls
Who with a similar vexation
Pay heavy burdens of taxation ,
I long for palmy days and cuts ,
BERT.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Skipping, Banking and Commfrcial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS o]y
dSULUVAIf y
TRADE MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORI
„ Manufacturers of:
JAXUL WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
r 4 BLUEPLE* ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
FO» GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
« ELECTRIC USAGES
ROTARY DUPLICATORS
SELF ' REGI STERING TILL!
frocess engravings in one or
more COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
butter WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
OFFirif * UBBER STAMPS
AN ° EOUIp MENT
catalogues
Illuminated addresses
Telegrams and Cables
JACKSUI”, BRISBANE
f s p°ts.
nr f sh f! anfl pimptes is
Sa bTh of h Cnticura oin **
cuts h th house - Good for
Sf h ' b f ruisesand sores. One
\ £ hefa ®oustrio-Cuticura
i T^ traent * Soap aad
i Ta'lcum Powder. S 3,
WWj
DF
PENS
Every point
donnf— • Guaranteed—*
D
Yonr choice Is CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is for
tweet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives Just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
FD
S;r°«
I* \CyVTH
■yi-v,
Hi
m
\
M
Pr
y
S'
%
Hi
■
ft?*
*
Vili
*
k *-j
m
MM
hv'../'
m
a
\ A ‘
BIRTHPLACE OF A
THOUSAND INDUSTRIES
i
i ?
mm
f;;S
■"1
m
r w VB
The Lysaght works
at Newcastle, N.S.W.
in the manufacture of
■ sheet steel for home-building and
industry, John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., is today producing the bulk of
the raw material upon which thousands
of Australian manufacturers depend.
Rolling sheet steel in ever-increasing
quantities, and in c ever-growing
range of qualities—including Sunstar
Black Iron, Orb Galvanized Iron,
Queen's Head Flat, Zincanneal, and
special carbon and electrical steels
the importance of this rapidly
growing organisation to the welfare
of the community cannot be too
highly estimated . , .
LYSAGHT’S
"Growing with Australia
John lysaght (Australia) Ply. ltd.
1203-814$
Wants.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Printed matter relating to fox- and.
dinso-hunting in N.S.W. by hunt
clubs, and histories of the Sydney,
Northern and Cumberland Hunt
Clubs and other hunt clubs. —4//b.
To buy copy of Hagley by J. S.
Maslin.—4774.
To buy copy of Dieran’s “Down
Among the Dead Men.”—4776.
Information Sought.
Is it possible to make a living from
flower-seed growing on thref-quarters
of an acre of land in the Walcha
(N.S.W'.) district?
The climatic conditions in your
district are not favorable for the
growing of small seed-crops which
require a winter growing period. This
imposes a severe limitation on the
crops available to you. The best
proposition appears to be the raising
of gladioli. A number of Victorian
growers advertise in the "Garden
Lover” gladioli cormlets and yearling
corms at cheap rates, and this would
make the establishment of the crop
not very expensive. When full-sized
corms are produced the accompany-
ing cormlets would enable stocks to
be rapidly increased. Contact with
the large stores or private advertis-
ing in Tamworth and Armidale
should secure a suitable outlet for a
crop which has been restored in
public favor since thrips control has
become practicable.
Where was the s.s. Queen Mary
built and how long did it take to
build? Did the British Government
help to finance its construction ?
In 1930 the construction of the
Queen Mary was begun at Clydebank.
In December, 1931, owing to the
world-wide economic depression, work
on the Queen Mary was suspended,
and it was not until April, 1934,
that work was restarted. In February,
1934, the agreement between the
Cunard Steamship Co., White Star
Line and the British Government was
reached. As a result of this agree-
ment the North Atlantic assets of the
Cunard and White Star companies
were merged, while the Government
agreed to advance to the merger
company £9,500,000 to enable the
Queen Mary to be completed and a
sister-ship constructed. The Queen
Mary was launched by H.M. Queen
Mary on September 26, 1934, and
made her first voyage to New York
on May 27, 1936. The same year
construction of the second ship, the
Queen Elizabeth, began at Clydebank.
* * * *
How does a spider throw the first
supporting catenary strand of a web ?
The spiders of the family Argio-
ptdce construct large orb-webs, which
are regarded as the finest type of
spider’s web. The first foundation
line may be constructed in two ways.
First, the spider may fix a thread at
its starting-place, and then she crawls
to some distant object, paying out
thread as she proceeds, the silken
strand being held clear by one of
the legs stretched out. This founda-
tion line may be reinforced several
times, as it has to carry the weight
of the web. The second method is
by using the wind. When the wind
is from the right quarter the spider
elevates her spinnerets and exudes a
silken thread, which the breeze bears
away until it comes to be entangled
in some bush or tree. The spider
tests the line, and eventually
strengthens this line by travelling
jj- war^s and forwards along it and
adding a new line as she proceeds.
Ihe framework of threads, with the
radii, viscid spiral, are added later.
* * * »
Origin and meaning of the word
blarney ?
It means soft, wheedling speech
to gam some end; flattery, or lying,
with unblishing effrontery. Blarney
f a village near Cork, Ireland
Legend has k that Cormac McCarthy
held its castle in 1602 and concluded
an armistice with Carew, the Lord
President, on condition of surrender-
's the fort to the English garrison.
Day after day his lordship looked for
the fulfilment of the terms, but re-
ceived nothing but soft speeches, till
he became the laughing-stock of
Elizabeth’s Ministers and the dupe of
the Lord of Blarney.
* * * *
What were broadside ballads?
Popular songs and poems, written
in doggerel, which were printed on a
single sheet of paper, decorated with
woodcuts, with the name of the tune
to which the ballads in question were
to be sung, and sold for a penny or
two on the street corners of England
m the late 16th and early 17th cen-
turies. Their subject-matter was taken
from political events, battles or wars,
murders, strange happenings, execu-
tions, freakish births, domestic quar-
rels and the like, and also included
moral exhortations and religious
propaganda during the Protestant-
Catholic controversies.
* * * *
Where was the Spanish main?
Properly the northern coast of
South America, going westward from
the mouth of the Orinoco to the
Isthmus of Panama, or a bit farther;
the mam-land bordering the Carib-
bean Sea, called by the Spanish con-
querors Tierra Firma. The term is
often applied, however, to the curv-
ing chain of islands forming the
northern and eastern boundaries of
the Caribbean Sea, beginning from
Mosquito, near the isthmus, and in-
cluding Jamaica, Santo Domingo, the
Leeward Islands and the Windward
Islands, to the coast of Venezuela in
South America.
Brief Answers.
. C-W.: Write Arthur Yates and Co.,
104 Sussex-street, Sydney NP •
Sgt. ( later Lieut.) W. Ruthveni of the
Eirs t A.1.F., was awarded
the V<C. for bravery at Ville-sur-
Ancre, France, on May 19, 1918
8.T.: pie Order of the British
Empire for men is divided into five
classes, and with military and civil
divisions to each, as follows: Knights
Grand Cross ((LB.E.), Kjnights Com-
Commanders
l Cers a "d Mem-
bers (M.8.E.) . F.M.D.; See article
Petticoat Publishing” in the "Aus-
Q ra Wo ™ a T n ’ s Mirror” for March
rw? 49 c N.S.W. Agricultural
Dept., Sydney, will forward you, on
application free pamphlets and leaf-
lets on the subject P.P. ; John
Norton, of Sydney “Truth,” was a
member of N.S.W. legislative
Assembly for various seats from 1898
1° The Historical
Oc Vu American Democracy
rai^/ oy T F v Nichols, published by
Cambndge University Press, London.
Any bookseller could order for'you.
written u %° n i‘ Hisraeli was
o. r ‘“ en b y Caryl Brahms and S. J.
PeZn’n and - IS now A published in the
lengum series A. 8.: Write See-
andrypntUStrcian' Institute of Marine
Xt En S* n eers, 135 George-
stieet North, Sydney H.M W •
Ibere is no means of eradicating
Ss° d om rr ? (oxahs) other than fork-
mg out as many of the plants
with the bulblets attached as pos-
sible. Xhis should be done in
early spring. There will always be
some bulblets left in the ground, but
these can be gradually exhausted if
the shoots are chopped off with a
Dutch hoe as soon as they come
through the ground. Oxalis is
resistant to the hormone selective
weedkillers. If you refer to the true
sorrel (Rumex acetosella), this is
eliminated by ordinary cultivation
and by applying lime D.A.McL.:
Girrawheen, “place of flowers”; Yar-
rabah “hill with - red gum-trees”;
Goondooloo, “the Southern Cross.”
The Bulletin’s “T. the
R. has been ill for several months,
which explains the absence of his
verse from the “Society” pages
E.W.: (1) Provided you have resided
continuously in Australia for a
period of 20 years you may, on your
return to Australia, make applica-
tion for age pension. (2) If all
receipts can be produced covering
withdrawals from your bank account
the amount will then be disregarded.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Vame and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor,
B.B.: You missed the chief ingre-
dient—something to say J.McP.:
Won’t do any paper that has an idea
of paper economy... .S.G.: Nothing
to get an audience for J.8.R.: It
is not without virility,' but the echoes
of Kipling ring through it S.T.P.:
No use to anyone except collectors of
waste paper... .T.T.: As exciting and
as appetising as a recipe for a suet
pudding... .M.C.M.: Ask yourself if
that’s the class of stuff we print....
W.E.J.: Read some good stories and
avoid print-worn phrases.... P. 8.:
You can’t write well enough yet
R.C.F.: That “Awake! Arise and
Shine!” business damns it from the
start... .A.W.H.: Yes, we’ve “known
anguish,” but we’ve got over it.
. ...K.A.; It plods along an old
track with the usual wobble and
bump... .L.W.; We didn’t laugh our-
selves hoarse over it....R,8.: Your
“Dream Children” dance as heavily
as baby elephants R.D.: Try to
say something that hasn’t been said
seven million times before... .C.C.:
Haven’t you discovered yet that an
Australian isn’t a “colonial”?....
The verse, as far as we can
read it, is as bad as the handwriting.
....C.C.R.: Send a magnifying glass
so that we can see through the lines.
.... Bellerive: Thank you:
D.L.H.: Somewhat belated, but
you’re batting:
Sir Don the batsman tore his hair,
He cursed himself in his despair;
And to the pavilion his bat he bore —
“Gripes,” he thought, “only 304.”
A.M.S.: Your first shot missed,
but don’t stop firing if you think you
have any ammunition C.S.: That
is not “verse,” or anything resembling
it.,. .H.T.F.: You won’t go far on
that line; and don’t write on both
sides of the paper..M.M.C.: A
lame little effort P.E.K.; Not
enough mirth to balance the improba-
bility of the yarn 8.F.: A theme
like that wants a skill you don’t
possess... : Well, you’ve said
that the river runs to the sea and
that the sun sets in the west. Almost
anybody, including the office cat,
could say that with practice.
THE BULLETIN'S SEVENVIETH BIRTHDAY.
The Bulletin goes on
As the years roll away
And has brightly reached
Its seventieth birthday.
Paterson’s, Dyson’s and
Henry Lawson’s poems
Are favorites in many
Near and far homes.
Brennan and Daley
Did reign with the best,
And Roideric Quinn, of
Late laid to rest.
And popular bards
Of The Bulletin
Continue to keep
Fond memories green.
A literary office of
Our Australian clime,
Founded in Sydney in
A long by-gone time.
The “Red Page,” letters,
And bright paragraphs;
Quips and cartoons
Which, evoketh laughs;
Humor and rhymes
Of the wallaby track,
And life among settlers
In the far outback;
With other items
In columns between,
Are read and re-read
In The Bulletin.
Great merit is„due 1
To the poet McCrae,
Whose verse will live
As the years roll away.
The Bulletin’s gone on
Since the long years sped;
Time passes over the
Living and dead.


THE OTHER FEĹOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Mr. Winsor
N. S. Wales Transport Commissioner
Winsor deserves credit much more than
disparagement. His main trouble is that
he is up against the disordered growth of
more than a century, and, either as an
individual or the head of a particular
department, he can’t hope to do much
about the chaos of Sidney’s daily travel-
ling life.
So true is it that nothing short
of highly-expensive replanning and
reconstruction of the Sydney metropolis
can overcome the trouble that it may turn
out to be unfortunate for us all that Mr.
Winsor is attacking his job so spectacu-
larly. For the smoke and excitement can
easily give the impression that something
real is being done, and so obscure the
basic organic ills in the life of Sydney. On
the other hand, it’s just possible that Mr.
Winsor’s messianic fervor may strike a
responsive chord in the right places.
The replacement of a few trams by
a few buses, the rerouting of trams, the
sale of tickets on the footpath and the
like are short-term efforts to meet a
long-term problem—commendable in that
they stand for a spirit of action, but
doomed to failure, or at best only trifling
success, because Sydney’s transport diffi-
culties are far beyond short-term or
merely procedural solution.
There can be no real solution until
some political genius recognises that the
problem of Sydney’s future is wrapped up
with issues concerning Australia’s growth.
In other words, every time Mr. Winsor
stabs a sensitive nerve on the King’s Cross
tram-run he also jabs his finger into
decentralisation.
The future of Sydney is a job not for
Mr. Winsor or any one man; it’s not
even a job for the City Council; it’s
probably not even a job for N. S. Wales.
Quite possibly Sydney will have to be-
come a national issue before real sanity
comes to it.
The problems include: (1) Sydney in
relation to its own environs—its capacity
for ordered expansion and for so recon-
structing its services that the pressures
of modern life can be accommodated
within reason; (2) Sydney in relation to
N. S. Wales-—its enormous aggregation
of population relative to the population
of the State; (3) Sydney in relation to
Australia as a whole—whether some dis-
persal of its growth should not be made
to other parts of the continent in the
interests of a more balanced national
development. Any real answers to those
issues involve (1) Far-seeing planning ;
(2) resolute and courageous action in the
face of the twin enemies of ignorance
and vested interest; (3) the expenditure of
enormous amounts of money.
But public life in this country being,
in the main, the shallow visionless thing
it is, one can only despair of any truly
constructive approach to it, and fall back
on the example of one perspiring little
man rushing around trying to plug up a
few gaping holes. — Dee (N.S.W.).
Trams v. Buses
Sydney’s tram-versus-bus squabble has
attained sufficient prominence to gain
space in S.A. papers. “Transporticus”
has written convincingly for the tram
(B. 7/12/’49) as against, presumably, the
diesel-bus with which Sydney is fairly
thickly populated.
No mention of the trolley-bus was
made by “T.” This vehicle relies on elec-
tric motive power, but has the advantage
of not being restricted to a set of rails.
Adelaide’s Municipal Tramway Trust has
successfully experimented with these buses
for several years, operating double- and
single-deckers over about 20 miles of
road. Comparisons with the tram and
motor-bus are interesting.
The trolley, as with it§ diesel cousin,
suffers under the disadvantage of poorer
loading characteristics, but this seems to
be its only real drawback. Maintenance
costs are high, tyres and brakes being
major items, but the capital cost does not
approach the enormous outlay involved
in a tramway system.
As the trolley-bus does not interfere
with other road-users, it immediately
gains a big advantage over the tram.
Streets in Adelaide used by the buses are
notable for their excellent paving and
conspicuous for the lack of annoying
tramlines, which are a hazard to rubber-
tyred vehicles in wet weather and the
ruination of the surface as a whole.
Speedy though the diesel-bus may be,
it cannot hold its own against the trolley.
During the day and evening a regular
three-minute service is maintained be-
tween Adelaide and its port over seven
miles away, the journey taking 30
minutes through a heavily-built-up in-
dustrial area. This is no small achieve-
ment for any public transport system.
As electric power cuts vibration con-
siderably, the trolley-bus ride is far' more
comfortable than that of a diesel. Motor
noise hardly rises above a slight whirr,
and rail noise does not exist, so that with
well-paved highways smoothness of ride
is similar to that of a modern tram.
Fumes are completely absent, and well-
upholstered seats are part of the service.
Obtaining their power from coal
through a central powerhouse, trolley-
buses are not dependent on imported
fuels, although recently in Adelaide fuel-
oil has had to be used in the boilers with
locally-mined brown coal, but that was
only because of the severe shortage of
black coal.
Adelaide people are reasonably proud
of their tramway service, but most agree
that the trolley-buses as run at present
are superior to the railed vehicles. Capi-
tal cost of Adelaide’s trams being round
the £5,000,000-mark, however, the trust
is wisely forestalling the hotheads who
would oust the tram for ever. While
ordering additional trams of modern de-
sign, trolley-bus services are to be
judiciously increased by planning routes
in newly-opened suburbs. — Karrimba
(S.A.).
India
“He-Ne” (B. 4/l/’50) should not be
alarmed at reports that India will import
no foodstuffs after 1951 nor export corn-
sacks, “because all her arable land will
be turned to producing local food.”
India for centuries has burned animal
dung for fuel instead of returning it to
the soil. Her vast plains are terribly im-
poverished and overstocked, and although
schemes are in hand to subsidise distri-
bution of superphosphate and educate
farmers in compost, soil-fertility cannot
be restored without a corresponding tree-
planting to provide firewood to replace
"This silence comes to you by courtesy of your
next-door neighbor!”
dung fires. And that cannot be achieved
in one year from now.
India is a great country with a vast
potential. I saw it in its renaissance,
and I knew it under British rule. Its
leaders have all sorts of schemes on hand,
or in mind. Self-sufficiency in food is
one of them, and the country might attain
that provided its population stops in-
creasing and the plan to restore soil-
fertility works out. But it will not be in
1951.—5 G.R. (Vic.).
Killing Flying-foxes
No need to wonder how the fruit-
destroying flying-fox can be slaughtered
en masse (B. 21 /12/’49). The U.S,A.
Bureau of Game and Fisheries has shown
the way. They aren’t bothered with the
fruit-eating bat oyer there, but the
American crow is just as big a
pest; fortunately, the crows gather
in rookeries at night, so it’s easy
to wipe them out. In their roost-
ing trees bombs are hung, made of a
piece of sheet-iron stove-pipe four inches
in diameter, two feet long and with the
bottom end blocked. Down the centre
of this, contained in a cardboard tube, is
a core of gelignite, and around this the
outer iron tube is packed with steel-shot.
All the bombs are connected with a
battery; when all the birds are on the
roost the switch is pressed, and next
morning the slain are gathered up —
30,000 birds in one blast is the record.
When I was in the Army in North
Queensland we decided to try out the
stunt on flying-foxes. It wasn’t hard to
find where the bats roosted ; we walked
through a mangrove swamp upwind and
the stench soon led us to where thousands
of them hung in clusters. We prepared
half a dozen of those bombs, using oM
nails and rivets because steel-shot couldn’t
be procured ; that night, when the flying-
foxes were out feeding, we hung them in
their roosting trees. We led the wires
from the detonators to a battery; next
morning, when the stinking pests were
back on the rog,st, we crouched behind a
steel plate and pressed the switch.
A deafening bang was followed by a
noise like a storm of hail and wind as the
old nails ripped through the trees; we
walked up to find circular patches on
which hardly a leaf or a stick remained,
while scattered over the ground and
splattered all over the scenery were a few
hundredweights of entrails and mince-
meat which had been a few thousand
flying-foxes a minute previously.
We demonstrated the stunt later to a
few of the local residents; they all said
that when gelignite was procurable again
they’d go in for it in a big way, but I
haven’t heard of it being used yet. —
Bogaduck (S.A.).
Butter-rationing
The new Government is quite right
in disagreeing with the departmental
officials on the question of lifting butter
rationing. There would be no increase
in consumption, as anyone can get all the
butter he or she wants on the blackmarket
if prepared to pay 4s, 6d. a pound for it.
I don’t know anyone who goes short,
even without going to the blackmarket
—without much trouble coupons can be
obtained from country friends, who
seldom use them.
All the lifting of rationing could do
would be bring the blackmarket butter
into the open; hence, no increase in
consumption.— Simple Simon (N.S.W.).
Soldier-settlement
Several years ago a number of returned
men in this district applied for a block
under the soldier-settlement scheme.
This is a dairying area, and the appli-
cants duly underwent a test to qualify
for a block, the Government making sure
that no man who did not know his cows
should be saddled with a block he could
not make pay.
A large property-owner offered the
Government portion of his land to be
cut up into four good-sized dairy-farms,
and the local lads applied for them. Those
who had passed the test (and quite a
number didn’t, but were advised to
work on a dairy-farm for six months to
gain experience) applied for the blocks.
Four lucky ones were finally chosen and
notified that their applications had been
successful. All that happened several
years ago, but so far the Government
and the property-owner who made the
fine gesture can’t arrive at a figure for
settlement satisfactory to both. Our well-
versed dairy friends still wait.
Not so an orchardist I know, who
applied for a fruit block and was allotted
a dairy-farm. When he objected he was
informed that was the best the scheme
could do for him, so rather than miss out
he moved on to the dairy-farm with a
tent and got things started. When his
milking-machines were finally installed a
few weeks ago he rejoiced with fervor.
He and his wife, both inexperienced, had
been hand-milking 45 cows. The day and
apparently half the night had been one
long nightmare of cows, the poddies from
the morning milking getting their drink
somewhere in the middle of the after-
noon. Their evening drink, no doubt,
was partaken about midnight.
Our cow-cocky neighbors who are still
waiting for a settlement of the local price
argument are inclined to take a dim view
of the chap in the next valley who should
be growing apples. But can he help it?
Nobody wishes more than he does that
he was growing apples. — Cass (N.S.W.).
Roads
J. A. Gresty’s dictum on road-construc-
tion (B. 28/12/’49) must bring a smile to
anyone who has any knowledge of road
and bridge design in Australia. His ideas
would call for more than 10 times the
money collected from vehicle- and petrol-
tax.
If he wants all roads constructed with a
maximum grade of two per cent, (i.e„
one in 50) there would be quite a few
sizeable artificial mountains of spoil
spotted around Queensland. Tourists
would no longer go to Egypt to see the
Pyramids.
If he had spent four or five or 20 years
with a longitudinal section in front, a
sheet of cross-sections on the left, an
alignment plan on his right, and last but
not least a planimeter in his drawer for
cross-sectional areas, “J.A.G.” would
shudder to think of the number of cubic
yards of earthworks into which his two
per cent, grade would lead him.
New layouts should be contoured on
easy grades? New locations are con-
toured on as easy grades as possible con-
sidering all the factors that come into
road design—cost of earthworks, length
of road, etc. For instance, a two per cent,
road-grade could lead to a road length
of 20 or 30 miles between two spots five
miles apart, or into such a quantity of
earthwork that the cost would be prohibi-
tive.
Mountain ranges must be crossed.
Queensland is a big State and a lot of
roads are required. The money spent on
one section of road built under the
“J.A.G.” method would preclude any
being spent elsewhere. Also, I fail to see
his reasons against right-angle intersec-
tions. I’ve seen intersections at 20, 30 and
40 degrees that 3 re far more dangerous,
if that is the point he is trying to make.
As to the grand-viaduct idea we are sadly
handicapped by the lack of something
that did not worry the Romans— slave
labor. —A. B. C. (Q.).
Bread
A large S.A. baking firm has planned
to build a laboratory where research will
be made into the problems that beset
makers of bread. The scientist in charge
has returned from abroad, where the
latest methods of baking as well as the
research angle have been under his eye.
It will probably be many years before
Australia manages to mechanise its
bakeries so efficiently that the bread is
not handled from the time of the dough-
setting until, wrapped, it is ready for sale.
U.S.A. does it—but at a price to the
consumer.
Bread is too dear now. In city areas
we could cut down on delivery service,
as in the States. However, if the nutrition
value of bread rose it would not be the
expensive starchy food it is today.
Mrs. P. (N.S.W.).
Railways
I must reply to “Transporticus’ (&•
30/11/’49). Actually, the point of view
I expressed was summed up in the wor
“The luxury Riverina Express isn’t
ciated by a lot of Riverina residents
note the last five words. The remarks1 tn
some of those same Riverina residents
made to me about the luxury expres
while farmers were being hamstr/ 1 =
through scarcity of essential goods h £
up by lack of rail-trucks would blister
sheet of asbestos. As an everyday men>
ber of the community who wishes to&*
the tourist trade developed, I a PPf ecl
the comfort and convenience of wxuo
trains, but if the picture those farme
and farmers’ wives presented was cu
reef there’s much to be said for
point of view. .
As to the merits and demerits of P
vate-enterprise transport, in spite 0
“Transporticus” says manufacturers s
shy, and will continue to shy, at the
of decentralisation until the Govern®
has proved its ability to service them,
far it doesn’t seem to me that the po\
that-be have done a conspicuously f
cessful job. Maybe it isn’t the la
trucks, etc., that causes the trouble,
the way in which the trucks are han
—UNA AULD (N.S.W.).


Nathan Spielvogel, Alf Brasch, J. A.
Barry, Ambrose Pratt, Arthur Wright,
Mary Simpson and H. E. Riemann.
In 1915 S. H. Prior succeeded James
Edmond as editor, inherited a grand
legacy of writers and artists, and set out
to find more of his own. Prior, persuaded
by Archibald, had come to The Bulletin
in 1903 from the “Barrier Miner” at
Broken Hill, and was soon given control
of the “Wild Cat” pages that had been
introduced by James Edmond. With
Prior in charge the section increased in
importance until today it is a recognised
authority in the Stock Exchanges of the
world and among the investing public.
When Prior became editor there was a
tendency among outsiders to regard him
as only a brilliant financial editor. Said
Harold Mercer: “The coming of the
‘Wild Cat’ man to the editorial chair of
The Bulletin was viewed with alarm,
even resentment by some Bohemian con-
tributors. What could one who had
steeped himself in finance know about
art or humor? We soon found he knew
a lot.”
The Bulletin’s fourth editor was a
versatile and gifted writer and an able
editor. He could write light verse, and
many fine prose sketches.flowed from his
pen. As a paragraphist he was as pithy
as Archibald without Archibald’s malice.
He could turn from paragraphs to polish-
ing gags for drawings or thinking out
ideas for cartoons. He could criticise
a play as soundly as he could analyse a
balance-sheet, and a book-review by him
was an example in the art of literary
criticism.
As an editor he assisted the established
and discovered many fresh writers for
The Bulletin. He was always “at home”
to a circle of Bulletin writers —especially
Henry Lawson, Rod Quinn, Ted Brady,
Dowell O’Reilly, Randolph Bedford,
“Steele Rudd,” Chris Brennan and Jack
Abbott. He had an almost paternal
affection for Henry Lawson and Rod
Quinn, and his kindness to them both
was constant. To name the writers who
made their start during his editorship
would run to columns.
The more important new story-writers
during his editorship were Hilary Lofting,
Harley Matthews, Dale Collins, Bernard
Cronin, Jack McLaren, Myra Morris,
Vance Palmer, lon Idriess, Eleanor Dark,
Gilbert Turnbull, William Hatfield,
Katharine Prichard, Cecil Mann, E. V.
Timms, Frank Dalby Davison, Henrietta
Drake-Brockman, Jack and Phil Lindsay
and J. J. Hardie.
In the prose field his influence was not
confined to the short-story. It extended
to the novel as well, and the renaissance
of the Australian novel that occurred in
the late 1920 s was directly due to his
efforts. He conceived and directed The
Bulletin Prize Novel Competitions,
which brought to light, among other fine
novels, M. Barnard Eldershaw’s A House
Is Built, Vance Palmer’s The Passage and
Katharine Prichard’s Coonardoo.
New poets who found their way into
The Bulletin’s columns while he was
editor include Robert D. Fitz Gerald,
Leon Geliert, Furnley Maurice, Nina
Murdoch, Edwin Gerardy, Elsie Cole,
Oscar Walters, Norma L. Davis, Ronald
McCuaig, Elizabeth Riddell, Arnold Wall,
Rex Ingamells and F. T. Macartney.
When S. H. Prior died J. E. Webb, who
became the paper’s next editor, said of
him: “To his staff he left an example of
lofty endeavor and achievement, of
modesty, generosity and unselfishness
which will not cease to be an inspiration.”
Towards the end of 1931 S. H. Prior,
who was then also managing-director,
shifted The Bulletin to its present
quarters. The land on which The
Bulletin now stands at 252 George-
street was among the very early grants
made in the new settlement on Port Jack-
son. It ran back to the west bank of the
Tank Stream, and at one time was in the
possession of John Tawell, the first in-
fluential Quaker in Australia. He was
the man who, having acquired some hun-
dreds of gallons of rum in a business deal,
no other payment being available to
complete the transaction, had that part
of the currency of the period poured into
the harbor: After that, somewhat in-
consistently, he returned to England and
was hanged for murder. Later the
property fell into the hands of Captain
Sylvester Browne, who was the father
of T. A. Browne, better known to readers
of Robbery Under Arms as “Rolf
Boldrewood.”
In 1933 J. E. Webb became the paper’s
fifth editor. While editor of the Perth
“Sunday Times” he was persuaded by
Prior in 1920 to join The Bulletin as a
political writer. Prior had been im-
pressed by Webb’s fluent and expressive
Style, acquired in the rough-and-tumble
journalism of the Western goldfields, in
the company of such racy writers as
“Dryblower” Murphy, Billy Clare,
“Smiler” Hales, Jack Drayton and
“Bluebush” Bourke—all Bulletin con-
tributors at one time or another.
As an editor, Webb was a writer of
high purpose, and with what is very rare
in contemporary journalism—a witty,
polished and distinguished prose style.
He took his politics seriously, and when
tackling an opponent sailed into the argu-
ment with both hands fighting. His long
memory stood him in good stead, and he
was fond of reviving indiscreet and for-
gotten statements by some politician he
was attacking to the confusion and dis-
comfort of the same politician. He re-
tired from the editorship in 1948 and was
succeeded by David Adams, the present
editor, who joined the “Wild Cat” staff
in 1927.
o#ne0 # ne of Webb’s best jobs for The
Bulletin was his journey to Perth in
1922 to ask his old friend Andree Hay-
ward to join the editorial staff. Hay-
ward —son of a South Australian pioneer,
Oxford graduate, barrister in South
Africa and editor of Kalgoorlie “Sun”
and Perth “Sunday Times”—consented
to cross the continent. For thirty years
Hayward had been delighting readers in
the West with his polished rhymes, and
until recently he continued, under the
nom-de-plume of “T. the R.,” equally to
entertain Bulletin readers with his in-
genious vers de societe. His total con-
tribution to this paper runs to over 2000
poems.
During Webb’s editorship Gavin Casey
first attracted notice with his virile
stories of the West Australian goldfields ;
later there came Brian James with the
richly Australian humor that carries on
the tradition of Lawson and Tom Col-
lins. Others were Kylie Tennant, with
her descriptions of life on the track;
James Hackston with his inimitable
“Father” ; Don Edwards, R. S. Porteous
(“Standby”), E. O. Schlunke, Arthur Up-
field, A. C. Headley, Margaret Trist, H.
G. Lamond, Geoff Bingham and John
Fountain. New Zealand stories came
from E. Mary Gumey and, latterly in a
remarkably vigorous development, from
Roderick Finlayson, J. H. Melville, Gloria
Rawlinson, A. P. Gaskell and Olaf
Ruhen. Ethel M. Anderson and David
Campbell have made their appearance
as story-writers under the present editor-
ship.
New contributors of poetry during the
late ’thirties and ’forties include Kenneth
Mackenzie, Judith Wright, Rosemary
Dobson, Nan McDonald, F. John
Blight, Mary Finnin, J. R. Hervey, David
Campbell, Nancy Keesing, Francis Webb,
Val Vallis and David Rowbotham.
Four years ago it was said on the “Red
Page : “The Bulletin does not apolo-
gise for having a writer or two on its
staff—eight members, as it happens, are
the authors of published books.” That
was during the last year of the war when
the paper had a depleted staff. The num-
ber now stands at 13.
Norman Lindsay heads the list with 11
books, including six novels. Douglas
Stewart comes next with 10 volumes of
verse > plays, short-stories and literary
criticism. Malcolm Ellis has eight to his
credit, including political works, travel
books and two monumental biographies.
Charles Shaw’s half-dozen comprise
children s books, verse, short-stories,
humorous sketches and a mystery. Ronald
McCuaig has put out three of verse and
one of literary criticism. F. M. Cutlack
has written two war histories and a book
on Manchuria. Mervyn Skipper two for
children. Cecil Mann a novel and a col-
lection of short-stories, S. W. Keough two
books of humorous sketches and Nora
Kelly two of verse. J. E. Macdonnell
wrote a documentary book about a
destroyer in the recent war, J. B. Blair a
collection of short-stories, David Adams
an item which endeavored to explain
accountancy to farmers.
No survey such as this could hope* to
do full justice to The Bulletin’s history,
any more than to reprint a selection of
stories and poems, as has been done in
this issue, can fully represent the literary
endeavor of 70 years. But perhaps this
article, like the “Pageant” supplement, will
help to give some idea of what The
Bulletin, as a mirror of the national
life throughout its existence, has meant
to Australia.
W. E. FITZ HENRY.
one may divine whether a drawing
picked at random from the world’s Press
was produced in New York, London,
Paris or Moscow. As for the infantilism
which is the convention of those works,
one may dismiss it with the assurance that
if any of it survives into the next gener-
ation, that generation will be convinced
that the world’s joke-block perpetrators
were infants under the age of eight.
The Bulletin, save for one trifling in-
stance, has refused to allow infantilism in
pen-and-ink work to invade its pages. It
still maintains a standard of excellence in
its pen-and-ink works as in every other de-
partment of the paper. And the standard
is everything. That captious catchword
of disgruntled critics, “The Bulletin isn’t
what it was,’’ used to be repeated in
Archibald’s time, to which Archie used to
retort, “The Bulletin never was what it
was.”
The evidence that the Bulletin has
maintained its standard of excellence in
literature is apparent by the simple fact
that all the writers whose works are
now accepted as Australian classics had
their work first published in its pages. A
glance at the contents of this issue will
confirm that claim. For myself, I don’t
hesitate to say that the standard today is
higher than ever it was in the past. From
Paterson’s “Man from Snowy River” to
Webb’s “A Drum for Ben Boyd,” from
the short stories of Henry Lawson to
those of Brian James, from the Red
Page of A. G. Stephens to its brilliant and
incisive criticism of today, we have our
national culture from its genesis to its
established reality under our eyes.
Norman Lindsay.
REMEMBERED
SPRING OFFENSIVE, 1941.
By Maurice Biggs.
In where the smoke runs black against
the snow.
And bullets drum against the rocks, he
went,
And saw men die, with childish wonder-
ment—
Where bayonet's glitter in the sudden glow.
And sleek shells scream, and mortars
cough below.
There tanks lurch up and shudder to a
halt
Before the superb anger of the guns;
Then flares go up—the rattle of a bolt—
Rifles stutter and voices curse the
Huns . . .
And then he jerked and toppled to the
ground,
His ears too full of noise, his eyes of light;
His scattered cartridge-clips glint brassy-
bright;
A Vickers cackles madly from a mound . . .
Oh, where the red anemone brims over
To swarm in brambled riot down a rise.
There we will lay him, lay you widow'd
lover.
And wipe the poor burnt face and gently
cover
The look of startled wonder in the eyes . . .
Let Beauty come, let her alone
Bemoan those broken lips with kisses from
her own.
HEAT.
By Kenneth Mackenzie.
“Well, this is where I go down to the
river,”
the traveller with me said, and turned
aside
out of the burnt road, .through the black
trees
spiking the slope, and went down, and
never
came back into the heat from water’s ease
in which he swooned, in cool joy, and died.
Often since then, in brutal days of summer
I have remembered him, with envy too;
thought of him sinking down above his
knees
in a cold torrent, senseless of the rumor
of death gone down behind him through
the trees,
through the dead grass and bushes he
shoved through.
He must have tasted water after walking
miles and miles along that stream of road,
gulping and drooling it out of his mouth
that had for one day been too dry for
talking
as we went on through drought into the
south
shouldering leaden heat for double load.
Plainly he couldn’t bear it any longer.
Like the hand of a bored devil placed
mercilessly upon a man’s head,
it maddened him. I was a little stronger
and knew the river, rich with many dead,
lustrous and very cold, but two-faced
like some cold, vigorous, enticing woman
quite at the mercy of her remote source
and past springs. 1 could not warn him
now—
not if he were here now. I could warn no
man
while these red winds and summer light-
nings blow
frantic with heat across my dogged course
into the south, beside the narrow river
which has that traveller’s flesh and bones,
and more.
Often I see him walking down that slope
thirsty and mad, never to return, never
quenched quite of his thirst, or of his hope
that heat would be arrested on its shore.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 54
Across.
I—The1 —The fellow married when cut
down. (5)
3—Large room takes on about the
tiny end of October. (9)
6 Frank king puts coppers in’ a
pair of spectacles. (3)
7 Spacious marsupial belonging to
me. (5)
9—Bifurcated cattle-station in the
resting-place. (8)
12—Part of Jack Horner’s diet return-
ing mistake by a mongrel that
is a great scientist. (6, 5)
14—North America in the heart of
an Alaskan town is characteristic
of the innominate. (2, 4)
16 —Study is weight according to this
novel by America’s Winston
Churchill. (8)
18—Limit Poe with confusion that is
not civil. (8)
20—East horse goes to a famous
Melbourne race? (3, 3)
23 —No U.S.A. uncles muddle these
features of grammar. (4, 7)
25—Who composed “Cavalleria Rus-
ticana”? (8)
27 Animal is all right with a
muddled printer’s type. (5)
28— Russian composer puts you in
101. (3)
(cryptic type.)
29 Six-footer and I take the
parents to the hors d’ceuvre with
1 down to follow it. (9)
30 — A hundred join the jail jingle. (5)
Down.
1— Male bar of metal opposed to
the fathers, including Salome’s
father. (5, 7)
2 Doctor, detective-story writer,
historical romancer and spiritual-
ist. (5)
3 Heigh, you with the title; the
rustic fairy paintings are in an
Australian city. (6)
4 Grassland. (3)
5 The night before the balance is
29,002 feet high. (7)
B—British8 —British artist, alternatively a
writer. (5)
10 — Checking the mongrel with a
crooner. (7)
11 — South, isn’t father to hoodwink
the famous son of Calpurnius,
a deacon? (5, 7)
13—Cut the rib 100 dance. (4)
15 —Concubine takes us to see a
marine animal. (7)
17 —Duck has a muscular twitch of
the ear. (4)
19—American Quaker pioneer and a
six-footer flag. (7)
21—One of Caesar’s assassins. (5)
22—100 plus 1 plus 51 plus 100
plus 0 equals cloth. (6)
24—Disciple -of Zeno by whom the
cot is altered. (5)
26—Georgia’s fuel. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 53.


THIIIHIIii
imntmmiHH
jlltllillllllHllf
p#N,
’ninmimiffl!'
mm
uiuimmiHiil
mmiuimiii!
L> J
mnniimiiiii
(n'nrini|ii'iai^
♦
xf >•••'. **
■
1 : :
I ■ :
mk
The Corner, 1853 —showing Hinton’s Forge.
I
The Corner, 1873—Swans, plumber and
gasfitter, and showing the many changes
IH «risrisi
HxmantjQDii i
ii cm an an mi n
II
tt ®l! j|
S ' ii
II
hot
i'
II OT
li ft l !
Present Building
completed in
1936.
1880
TOTAL FUNDS £193
1950
TOTAL ASSETS £18,000,000
At a meeting of 12 public spirited gentlemen at 470 George Street, 14th
November, 1878* it was decided to establish a mutual life assurance society
to be known as the City Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited.
The first annual report showed funds to total £193. At the end of the 15th
year funds had grown to £107,463, and at the end of the 50th year were
£4.840,678.
Assets in 1950 now amount to £lB million.
Jd IISK
;
: ' ••■:•
$
The Corner, 1893- —the
“new” City Mutual
Life •Building erected in
1878 ,
The
I
LIFE ASSURANCE
LTD.
Head Office; Cr. Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
Telephone; BW 2021.
VICTORIA:
City Mutual Building,-
459 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
TASMANIA:
City Mutual Building,
26 Elizabeth Street,
Hobart.
BRANCH OFFICES:
QUEENSLAND!
City Mutual Building,
307 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
City Mutual Building,
113 King William St.,
Adelaide.
WEST. AUSTRALIA!
City Mutual Building,
62 St. George’s Ter’ce*
Perth.
