

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 71—No. 3692
Wednesday, November 15, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
LIVERPOOL CATHEDRAL, TRIUMPH OF MODERN ARCHITECTURE
TTIGH on St. James’ Mount, overlooking the great city and port of
JO. Liverpool, is the new Cathedral which, even in its uncompleted state,
ranks amongst the noblest churches in Christendom. It was designed by Sir
Giles Gilbert Scott, who, at the early age of 20, submitted plans in a
public competition which resulted in his appointment as architect of the
Cathedral.
Liverpool Cathedral is remarkable not only for its size, which will make
It the largest Anglican church in Britain, but for the fact that it is the only
English cathedral to be built in the twentieth century, and it is regarded as
one of the few really great architectural achievements of modern times.
When completed it will have an exterior length of 619 feet and a width across
the transepts of 197 feet, while its central tower, which extends across the
full width of the building, has a height of 331 feet. Red sandstone, quarried
locally, has b'een used in its construction, and though the general style is
Gothic, it embodies the individuality of the architect, and cannot properly be
classified under any of the recognised architectural periods. The simplicity
of its design is one of the remarkable features of the Cathedral, as the
architect did not hesitate to use plain surfaces wherever there was no
necessity for ornamentation.
Unlike the building of other churches, each section of Liverpool Cathedral
was completed down to the last detail before work on the next section was
commenced. Consequently future generations will see in this building a
harmony of construction which is entirely the work of the twentieth century.
The foundation stone was laid in 1904 by King Edward VII, and twenty
years later the Choir and Eastern Transept were consecrated in the presence
of King George V and Queen Mary.
A notable feature within the Cathedral is the modern stained glass which,
in size and quality, represents the finest achievement of any stained glass
artist since the Middle Ages. Here, also, is the largest church organ in the
world, possessing nearly ten thousand pipes.
CHRISTMAS WINE FOR BRITAIN!
Sfe Have you friends or relatives In the United Kingdom? Here, then, is news that must
interest you. Just Imagine them toasting you at Christmas Dinner while you toast them
in the sdme wine twelve thousand miles away! That’s possible through the “WIXE-i'OR-
BKIXAIN” scheme introduced by The House of Seppelt. Through their London Office, Seppelts
will arrange for your friends in the Homeland to be supplied with Seppelt Wines before this
coming Christmas. You’ll have to act at once for Christmas will soon be here. Get details
of Seppelts “Wine-For-Britain” scheme: Writ© to The House of Seppelt, Box 1422 H, G.F.0.,
Adelaide, South Australia.
A
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
SERVICE
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


i mi
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.160) Age
The Red Page
ANOUILH AND FRY.
Since English comedy has undoubtedly
come into its own again with the plays
of Christopher Fry, in a combination of
freshness and polished wit such as we
have hardly seen since Congreve, it is
singularly fitting that Fry should have
been the translator of Jean Anouilh’s
Ring Round the Moon (Methuen ; Angus
and Robertson), for here, as a further
invigoration of a stage already incom-
parably reanimated, is the most delightful
of modern French playwrights presented
by the most delightful of English.
Ring Round the Moon is, indeed, a
shade better than Fry’s own latest play,
Venus Observed, commissioned by
Olivier; but Fry can claim a fair share
in its success, for it is flawlessly trans-
lated—not a word jars; every word
sparkles—and that is a very rare achieve-
ment. On the other hand, it is a good
deal less satisfying than Fry’s magnificent
A Phoenix Too Frequent: for, based on
the wicked story from Petronius, rounded
and rich in characterisation, vivid with
wit and full of charming poetry, A
Phoenix was solid all the way through,
whereas Ring Round the Moon is about
as substantial as thistledown.
But it floats, like thistledown, grace-
fully in an atmosphere of light and mist
it seems to create for itself; and it has,
like thistledown, a minute and exquisite
perfection in its airy form; and, at the
centre of it, like the seed in the thistle-
down, there is the hard and durable core
—fine wit, fine characterisation. It is
good, in fact —and brilliantly so—pre-
cisely because, setting out to be a thistle-
down comedy, it lives entirely in its own
atmosphere.
It is a play with a modern setting—
“A winter-garden, in spring”—but it
seems to take place nowhere; in the
heart of eternal spring. The characters
are modem people—a millionaire, his
selfish daughter, his mistress having an
affair with his secretary, a ballet-dancer,
two rich and idle young men, a butler —
and, dancing in and out of the moonlit
garden, they seem like creatures of fairy-
tale.
This seems exactly the sort of play Fry
himself meant to write in Venus
Observed: and very nearly he did write
it, nearly enough for it to have been a
great success on the stage and to be a
delightful thing to read. But it lacks
Anouilh’s certainty of touch. There
really isn’t much point in Fry’s putting
his people into an observatory, since
they do so little star-gazing and since he
gets so little star-poetry out of the situa-
tion ; nor is there, really, much point in
his having the duke re-enact the comedy
of Paris and the apple, since the three
ladies of his heart don’t fall to fighting
as vigorously as one would hope ...
there are loose-ends in Venus Observed,
an uneasy to-and-fro from fantasy into
reality and back to fantasy. It is a play
which leaves you asking questions as to
plausibility, probability, logic, construc-
tion, whereas Ring Round the Moon,
though on the plane of reality one
mightn’t believe a word of it, exists im-
pregnably in its world of fantasy.
The problem both playwrights faced.
Fry in poetry, Anouilh in prose, was:
how do you create, in the modern world,
and without imitating Shakspeare, the
fantastic loveliness of, say, “A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream”? Both, deter-
mined to experiment with a modem
setting, left the fairies out. Anouilh, with
music, dancing and moonlight to help
him, succeeds in his almost impossible
experiment; Fry, letting too much day-
light in and not quite sure where he was
going—Peter Brook, in an introduction to
Ring Round the Moon, says that Fry
broke off Venus Observed to do the
translation from the French because he
was “stuck” —finished with a more prosaic
result, gay and polished and infinitely
more like a true poetic comedy than The
Cocktail Party (how exhilarating it is,
after all, to escape once again from
Sunday school); but still closer to Con-
greve than to Sbakspeare.
Possibly, judging from A Phoenix Too
Frequent, a theme out of history suits
Fry better than the modern comedy com-
missioned by Olivier ; possibly he will yet
achieve the miracle of being, like Anouilh,
at once contemporary and enchanting:
not that there is the slightest intrinsic
virtue in merely being contemporary.
A mere resume of the characters and
plot of Ring Round the Moon will never
give an adequate idea of its delicate
beauty and its bubbling laughter; one
cannot itemise the qualities of a butter-
fly. But it may give some indication of
what the reader will find to mention that,
on the first page, Frederic is discovered
having slept our all night for love, under
his mistress’s window, in a rhodo-
dendron bush; that Lady India, the
millionaire’s mistress, relates how one
night, for wickedness, she went to a dock-
side cafe in Monte Carlo, “absolutely
naked except for a cloak and my dia-
monds ; quite alone, too, amongst all
those drunken brutes”; that the grand
old Madame Desmermortes says she
feels “absolutely marooned, away from
a bellrope” ; that the mother of Isabelle
the ballet-dancer is described as “a
dilapidated old moth” ; that the butler,
overcome by the night’s catastrophes
(when everybody—more-or-less—changes
partners, is scandalously exposed to the
world and tries to fight a duel or commit
suicide in the pond) sits down among
the guests . . “That hasn’t happened to
me before in thirty years”; that the
millionaire, persuaded by Isabelle that
money is unclean, sells all his pos-
sessions and promptly becomes twice as
rich as before ; and that Isabelle is that
rarest of all creatures to be successfully
portrayed, a young girl poised delicately
above the dangerous and intoxicating
abyss of life and love.
That so “high,” so rare, so poetic a
comedy should have been a popular
success on the London stage is in itself
something of a miracle ; and it is, of
course, Christopher Fry’s plays that have
created the atmosphere in which such a
success is possible.
"The Young Lions."
Behold, I am against thee, saith the Lord
of hosts, and I will burn her chariots in the
smoke, and the sword shall devour thy
young lions: and I will cut off thy prey
from the earth, and thy messengers shall
no more be heard —Nahum, ii, 13.
The American author Irwin Shaw, in
The Young Lions (Cape), attempts
nothing less than the dramatisation of a
clichd; that Nazi Germany, when all is
said, was evil and deserved to he
destroyed and that we —or, specifically,
the Americans—deserved to survive.
This concept is embodied in a novel
which in form matches the sculptured
strength of the above quotation, taken
from the title-page; although it has not
such a confident pajan of victory as was
sounded in another American war novel.
Guard of Honor, by James Gould
Cozzens, recently reviewed on this page:
perhaps because the characters, German
and American, in The Young Lions are
foot soldiers, seen in action and worn
by hard and bloody fighting and in fear
of death, whereas Guard of Honor was a
study of an air-base in America.
There is not the same wonderful mani-
pulation of multitudinous characters, all
unerringly integrated in the grand design,
as in Guard of Honor and, perhaps for
the very reason that the one deals with
soldiers and the other with airmen, there
is less buoyancy and more shadow.
Somewhere towards the end of The
Young Lions, as American planes fly
over the dug-in soldiers in invulnerable
armadas, expression is given to that
queer, fleeting, illogical hatred of the in-
fantryman for the plane, the unnational
hatred of an earthbound creature for a
bright killer from the distance.
There are three principal characters,
two Americans and an Austrian:
Christian Diestl, the ex-Communist skiing-
instructor and Nazi convert; Michael
Whitacre, a theatrical stage-manager,
who, spurred by what an American
colonel unkindly caffs his “cocktail-party
conscience,” enlists as a private in the
infantry, somewhat self-consciously, and
rather like a youngish, fattish man unused
to' exercise heroically plunging into the
Bondi surf in mid-winter—a sort of
symbol of democracy, in fact; and the
third man is Noah Ackerman, a Jew,
young and poor, and, like Michael, rather
muddled. The development of these
characters is clearly traced and shown
against a background of peace and war
in America and Europe, and, in a final
masterly scene, the three are clashed to-
gether in a wood outside a camp of the
Buchenwald kind, captured by the
Americans.
The theme of the novel recalls—as all
war novels of distinction must —The
Case of Sergeant Grischa. It is interest-
ing to remember that Zweig, in the inter-
view between Schieffenzahn and the
Dutchman who has come to warn him
that America is about to enter into the
war of 1914-18, glanced at just such a
juxtaposition of forces, moral and
material;
The United States were not to be com-
pared with Rumania or Italy, he explained,
•although the latter had standing armies.
America would cover the front with engines
of destruction, and behind each one would
be a team of smart, hawk-eyed fellows all
spoiling for a fight, lads whose spirit had
never been broken by a drill-sergeant.
Shaw looks at the American soldier
more closely, and describes him with
family frankness. All the sordid
minutiae of camp-life and a barrack town
are revealed, and perfectly expressed, in
the disillusionment of Michael and the
despairing revolt of Noah, who, in an
effort to win a place of respect for him-
self in a community of ignorant
southerners, has a series of brutal and
losing fist-fights. He deserts, but returns
to his unit.
The character of Captain Coldough, a
vulgarian, a bully, and finally a coward,
is a minor one, but typical of a kind of
officer hastily manufactured by the
democracies when they go to war, and
there is a sort of oblique contrast with
the German lieutenant, Hardenburger,
the professional, trained to a hair and
automatically brave. As, later on in the
book, there is a contrast of Hardenburger
with the American lieutenant, Green,
who takes over when Coldough fails,
and the masterly contrast of the two
characters whom war has nurtured to a
full-blown development—or, perhaps,
stripped to their essentials —Noah and
Christian.
All this adds up to a synthesis, a
balance, expressed more strongly, per-
haps, in the German view of the war, of
age-old buildings reduced to rubble, and
in Christian’s anger at the sight of a
German ambulance wantonly strafed by
American flyers.
Towards the end of the book when
Christian shoots an American parachutist
trapped in a tree there is a swing towards
the point of view expressed by Zweig.
Christian shoots the tough, cocky
American with a sinking of the heart,
not so much at the murder—Christian is
used to killing—as at the contrast between
the American’s toughness and the failing
spirits of his own men. Subtly enough,
this is shown through German eyes. At
the same time American troops are shown
in battle, realistically.
There is another important departure
from Zweig’s book, or, indeed, any book
dealing with the war of 1914-18—the dif-
ferent character of Germany itself. A
German soldier, Behr, talking with
Christian, puts this into words. He says
that after the first war his father marched
home with his comrades, and girls threw'
flowers at them on their way. Then his
father simply returned to his business
as a lawyer. This time it will be
different: —-
“This time,” Behr said, “it, is not a
simple, understandable war within the same
culture. This time it is an assault of the
animal world upon the house of the human
being. I don’t know what you saw in
Africa and Italy, but I know what I saw in
Russia and Poland. We made a cemetery
a thousand miles long and a thousand miles
wide. Men, woman, children, Poles, Rus-
sians, Jews, it made no difference. It could
not be compared to any human action. It
could only be compared to a weasel in a
henhouse. It was as though we felt that
if we left anything alive in the East it
would one day bear witness against us . . .
and now ... we have made the final
mistake. We are losing the war” . . .
- The title of the French translation of
The Young Lions is Le Bod des Maudits,
which may be freely translated as “The
Dance of the Damned.” It is this aspect
of the book—a Gditerddmmerung—
which gives its sombre quality to the
story, and some of its strength. It is
shown, brilliantly, in the swift change of
scene and the march of incident, and in
war-time Berlin at the height of its
triumph, with Gretchen Hardenburger,
the lieutenant’s wife, as a striking symbol
of German victory and degradation—a
kind of superhuman bitch, her rooms
stuffed with spoil from Libya and
Poland and Norway, and every other
part of the world where the Third Reich
has armies and Gretchen has lovers.
Gretchen, who casually takes her
husband’s sergeant, Christian, as a lover,
when he is on leave, is one of the prime
agents in the conditioning of Christian’s
mind. The other is Hardenburger him-
self. I take it as a measure of Shaw’s
art that, in creating this spectacular pair,
he never shows them together, but only
linked through Christian. There is always
a hint of mystery in their relationship,
which adds a touch of vague horror.
There must surely be something more
than coincidence in the appearance of
war novels, both by Americans, of the
calibre of Guard of Honor and The
Young Lions. It is difficult to convey
the impression they give, of vitality,
structure and realism, but it is, I think,
a fact that they indicate a quality of
national self-consciousness and maturity
which did not exist in American literature
before the war.
J.F.
Reviewed Briefly.
Turf Beneath My Feet: Garry Hogg
(Museum Press). A traveller among the
villages and villagers along the west coast
of Ireland. Pleasant stuff in the H. V.
Morton manner.
* * * *
Library additions: Anne Treneer’s
Schoolhouse in the Wind to Cape’s
Travellers’ Library; (Edipus and Theseus
to Seeker and Warburg’s standard edition
of Gide; Turgenev’s Fathers and Sons—
a beautiful novel—to Hamish Hamilton’s
Novel Library.
*•* * * V
Icelandic Christian Classics: Charles
Venn Pilcher, D.D. (Oxford University
Press). Poems of the epoch when “the
old Teutonic verse-form, just before its
death, uttered its swan-song in the pre-
ceding of Christian truth.” The general
effect, in the short Icelandic line and the
rough Icelandic tongue, both capably
rendered here so that something of the
original flavor is retained, is rather like
Skelton.
I s * * *
Plato’s Mistake: Richard Church
(P.E.N. Books ; Allen and Unwin). Mr.
Church defends the poet, and the fine arts
generally, against Plato, who would have
excluded them from his Republic, and
against the Communists, who would make
them, the hired servants of the State. He
believes that in any future society the
artist will always be “the odd man out,”
exerting his civilising influence on the in-
different rich,: the equally indifferent poor
and the hostile bureaucrat by “aerating”
society.
* * * #
On Not Being Able to Paint: Joanna
Field t. Heinemann). An educationist who
wanted to paint pictures and could never
master technique, Miss Field says she
began to do “free drawings” from her
subconscious partly to satisfy her artistic
impulse, _ partly tc discover what was
wrong witlt the education system. Exactly
what she discovered, except that she
could do “free drawings”—which aren’t
any good because even surrealists need
to be masters of technique—isn’t very
clear, "
* * * *
Tenth Symphony: Mark Aldanov
(Cape). The title-piece of these five long
short-stories, occupying a hundred pages
of the 290-page book, is a portrait of
Count RazumoVskyv Beethoven’s patron,
and of Beethoven himself; a recrea-
tion of Beethoven’s Vienna, one of
the main events being the first per-
formance of the Choral symphony, here
called, for some learned, reason, “The
Tenth.” Each of these stories has a great
man for hero: “Number Fourteen” is a
powerful account of the last days and the
assassination of Mussolini; “An Exter-
minator” shows Churchill, Roosevelt and
Stalin meeting at Yalta; “The Astrologer”
is written round the last days of Hitler,
who makes only one appearance, enter-
ing from the lavatory of his underground
shelter; and “The Belvedere Torso” is
a study of Michelangelo in his old age,
with Vasari, in the toils of love, and
Accolti, wouid-be assassin of the Pope,
thrown in for good measure. Aldanov
has a remarkable ability for recreating the
scenes of the past, and a host of minor
characters through whose eyes his great
men are seen as, very probably, they
appeared to their own people and their
own ages.
* * * *
Plant Hunters in the Andes : T. Harper
Goodspeed (Hale). A big book, 429
pages, recording the experiences and dis-
coveries of a party of U.S. naturalists in
the mountains and jungles of Peru and
Chile in 1938-39. The author tries to do
too many things; a full and detailed re-
port for the University of California, a
political survey for U.S. citizens who
want to know what South America thinks
about them, a popular book for readers of
light travel-literature and, finally, a book
about his cacti and orchids ; so that the
result is something like a cross between
Green Mansions and a Fitzpatrick travel-
ogue. A compact book about the plants
would have been much better, but at least,
amongst the comparatively commonplace
stuff, you do get some plant-hunting—
“tawny, barren hillsides forested with
gigantic cactus candles each one burning
with a steady scarlet flame, or ridges dark
against the evening sky fretted with black
columns whose pointed apices glowed in
the sunset with living fire”—and the
photographs of mountain scenery are
magnificent.


"TRUTH,
IN ADVERTISING'*
Anthony Horderns
‘THE HOME OF SANTA CLAUS”
S'iKSx
Ml
m
mm
''
W:
■
iliiii
liiiiillii
ii: -.fe
W
iglipiiplliig
■
l..'J
Far Right:
An inner spring mattress for Junior
made from a high-grade spring unit, coconut fibre and
cotton linters, covered with nursery ticking. 46in. x 21in.,
£4/5/5; 48in. x 24in., £5/0/6; 52in. x 27in., £5/11/9.
Right:
Johnsons Cradle Seat features an inner-spring
rubber mattress and a strap that can be altered for lying,
reclining or sitting. In either Fawn, Grey, Blue. £l/16/4.
Ii ■■ • ■
iii
il r ;*l
■ ■
ill
ii
ii
m
Above:
Youngsters Table and Chair Set
of strong metal lacquered in either cream or green.
Featuring three bears on table and one on each of the
two chairs. Designed to stand hard wear. £3/1/9 set.
Far Right:
Junior Deck Chair just like Dad’s, features a
wooden frame and canvas cover. Without canopy,
14/11 each. With canopy, priced at £l/3/6,
Right:
English Kiddies Totseat strongly made of
white plastic with aluminium fittings. Self-locking , . .
one snap movement collapses it for easy storage.
Safety chain. Priced at 39/9 each.
Christmas Gifts for that all-important
member of the family!
This year give that all-important member of your family—“the
baby”—something practical for Christmas . . . something that
will give years of service . . . Nursery Furniture.
Left:
Convertible De Luxe Pramette-Stroller features a
draughtproof leather cloth hood and a quilted, non-creasing interior.
Storm cover included. In either Burgundy, Cream, Grey, Fawn, Green
or Black. This attractive, strongly made Pram is priced at £l5/2/-.
ill
a
-V
It
Left :
Comfortable Collapsible Cot,
A handsome lacquered collapsible dropside cot,
designed for baby’s comfort, featuring nickel-
plated rails and fittings and a 2-ply mattress.
Blue, Pink, Ivory. Price, £ll/10/-.
m
m
m
m
-»
m
m
m
IB
Va
Right:
Play Yard ... to save you constant
baby-watching. Baby’s folding play-pen col-
lapses for easy storage. Play-pen,
4ft. x 3ft., £2/11/-. Folding floor 23/6 extra.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ NURSERY FURNITURE FOURTH FLOOR—M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT). BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EXTRA


*\T
• iT vr
:i ■-v ••. .v r.: t; *
BCflT^fiy
1 *?;
’.r-
■^X2
• S' v:::-^
w. -■' *~-
..
•2^.;
SStl
■t ( :
RT
S;,.
*ss
im
‘A
m
-
09S
— —'&
*B:?S
V-
I
j
m
K
12111'Mr,
yjfitey: a.<
/'/ /
/
I
l^eye
,ilr ftiii
A|g|£||,
r*
• •
1
01cemaster . . . the latest, greatest
Kerosene Refrigerator . . . combines the three
essentials to service and satisfaction—big storage
capacity (the biggest in the field), high proved
performance that ensures freezing in tempera-
tures that defrost others, and the highest stan-
dard of durable beauty in non-electric
refrigeration. It’s refrigeration
at its best!
FOR A TRICKLE OF KEROSENE
Rfe
9 Icemoster's new,
improved burner
maintains a full
volume of refrigera-
tion even in the
hottest weather on
a kerosene consump-
tion actually lower
than that of less
reliable, less power-
ful refrigerators.
• DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.—BENNETT & WOOD PTY. LTD., Cnr. PH*
and Bathurst Sts. VIC—KELVINATOR AUSTRALIA
LIMITED, Williamstown Rd., Port Melbourne. Q'LD.
—WILLERS & CO. PTY. LTD., 36 Eagle St., Brisbane.
S.A.—RADIO ELECTRIC WHOLESALERS LTD., James
Place; BROKEN HILL BARRIER ELECTRICAL AP-
PLIANCES LTD., Argent St. W.A.— WESTERN AP-
PLIANCES LTD., c/- Nicholsons Ltd., Barrack St.;
WESTRALIAN FARMERS CO-OP. LTD., 569 Wellington
St., Perth. TAS.—MAX GEEVES PTY, LTD., Oavey
St., Hobart and Brisbane St., Launceston.
Ik
HH _ HB NHHHH |
>wmA
AL 30
APPLIANCES LIMITED, FINSBURY. SOUTH AUSTRALIA


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3692
Wednesday, November 15, 1950
CHINESE PUZZLE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
RUSSIA AND CHINA.
There can be little doubt that China has
become an engine of conquest for Russia.
The plans to that end were made 30 years
ago when the slogan “Hands Off China”
began to be pasted on Australian walls
by men who were then officials of the
Communist party but who are now lead-
ing lights in the Australian “Labor”
party. The idea was to turn China into
a Communist satellite country linked
economically with Soviet Russia and
gradually sucking into its orbit all the
weakling countries of southern Asia. The
policy of Russia was epitomised in the
slogan “Drive out the British.”
The Chinese Communist Government
went into office by force and by grace
of Moscow, with large numbers of
noodles in politics and newspaper offices
persuaded by its propaganda that it was
not really Communist at all, but some-
thing different and inimical to Russian
Communism. It very soon disposed of
that idea. Its airlines are owned jointly
by Soviet-Chinese corporations, its eco-
nomic development in the production of
war materials is being carried out by
joint effort. Its armament is Russian,
its military organisation is Russian in
type, and it speaks the jargon of dialectic
materialism in the same tone and with
the same accent as Stalin himself. It is
clear that if Mao ever seeks Irish citizen-
ship his name will be translated as Charlie
McCarthy.
Chinese Communism has been in the
saddle less than a year. It is already mak-
ing preparations to destroy the peasant
economy of the country in the same way
that the kulaks were destroyed in the
Workers’ Only Fatherland by appealing
for their co-operation, getting them dis-
organised and then liquidating them in
bulk. It has thrown the European com-
munities out of their compounds, held
under long-standing treaty, in Peking. It
has restricted the movements of all
foreigners, and it has adopted a generally
arrogant and open policy of humiliation
to every country which is not Asiatic.
The island of Hainan was seized and
garrisoned as a stopper on the trade-
routes into French Indo-China and to
surround Hong Kong and Macao, The
Ladrones, a group of small islands off
Hong Kong, were seized to dominate the
entry into the Pearl River. Recently
forts on one of these islands fired on
a British destroyer, H.M.S. Concord,
which returned the fire. A stream of
warnings, couched in threatening
language, to the British in Hong Kong
to observe border regulations issues from
Kwangtung headquarters.
China’s policy has all along been to
produce, in those parts of Asia which it
does not actually control, a state of
ferment tending towards hatred and fear
of all things European, while at the same
time weakening the authority of Govern-
ments with which it professes to be on
friendly terms. Thus it fosters Communist
rebellion in Burma, in which it is diplo-
matically represented, and bloodshed and
unrest in the accessible parts of India in
conjunction with direct Moscow agents.
Communist terrorism flared up in Assam
the week of China’s attack on Tibet.
What the actual objectives of China
(and Moscow) are can be-gauged effec-
tively from Mao’s report to the Chinese
Communist party on June 6 last, a month
after Russia had rejected a letter sent
to U.N.O, by the Chinese Nationalist
Government-in-exile accusing the Kremlin
of setting up air-force and signal instal-
lations in Communist China. He out-
lined a five-year plan in tune with
Russia’s plans, and he foreshadowed only
“partial demobilisation” with 1,000,000
troops to be retained in the national
army “to free Tibet and Formosa,” “con-
solidate national defence” and “suppress
counter - revolutionary activity.” He
further dwelt on the need to keep in line
with Russian plans for world peace, which
means peace which —as Moscow accepts
—can only be attained by crushing all
opposition in the “imperialist” world.
The slogans of the Chinese Communist
party square almost precisely with the 56
which were issued in Moscow on Novem-
ber 7, the anniversary of the foundation
of the Soviet Union, marked as usual by
a parade through Red Square of hundreds
of thousands of heavily-armed troops.
In the light of all this, the Chinese
stand on North Korea must be considered.
It is not merely based on the principle
frequently asserted from Peking during
the past few weeks that the Chinese “will
not allow a friendly neighbor to go
under to foreign aggression.” Its roots
lie in the plan which has been evident
ever since the Pacific War ended—to turn
the Orient into a single Communist-
dominated imperialist whole. It is a
natural extension of a war in being against
the Western World. Examination of
conditions in North Korea already has
proved that it was virtually a Russo-
Chinese province. Its official language
was Russian, and its hydroelectric and
other resources had been developed, as if
it were part of Manchuria, to provide
power for Communist China. Interven-
tion comes from China because, despite
all the lip-service given to the ideal of
Korean independence. North Korea is,
in the Chinese and Russian view, just as
much a part of Soviet China as Hupeh
or Peking itself, or as Hungary and
Rumania and Poland are now of Soviet
Russia. It is only a matter of time before
this viewpoint will be applied to other
Asiatic countries by Russia and China.
Only one voice has put the issues
clearly in Australia. And that was the
voice of the Director-General of Recruit-
ing, Sir Edmund Herring, who says that
“World War 111 may have already started
in Korea,” that we are “facing a perilous
international situation,” and that Aus-
tralia has tyro choices:
It can stand by and do nothing and let
Communism roll over us. Or it can make
a determined effort now, while it has time
to build up its defences, and be prepared
to make some sacrifices We are in a
desperate position with our defences at
present.
Desperate indeed, since we could not put
a battalion modernly armed into the field
if an enemy landed tomorrow. Doubly
desperate because of the lack of realism
shown in our foreign policy, which pro-
duces nothing save the experience of
wider foreign travel for Mr. Spender and
a few more bales of Press-cuttings.
The stern fact is that we are involved
in actual warfare with the Chinese, who
have the greatest reservoir of manpower
at their disposal and the greatest Russian
arsenals feeding them with materiel.
Whatever the pretexts, we are at war on
the issue of whether the lights of Western
civilisation shall be blotted out and our
free systems replaced by Asiatic slavery.
Not a hundred of Mr. Spender’s windy
“five-point” peace-plans will alter the
facts or mitigate the imminence of the
danger, and Canberra can “search for a
basis of understanding with the Soviet
Union,” as our wandering Minister
advises the world to do, until it is black
in the face, without achieving anything.
There is only one argument which
Mosco.w and Peking understand, and that
is overwhelming strength in its opponents.
And until we stop talking and posturing
and set out to get it, even at the cost
of some awkward sacrifices, the menace
will grow.
America's Example.
The executive of the Australian Council
of Trade Unions seems now to realise
that it missed something when it
refused to send a delegation on a
“grand tour” of the industrial scene
in U.S.A. at the invitation of the American
Federation of Labor. The A.C.T.U. de-
clined because the A.W.U., which does
not belong to it, had been invited also
and had accepted.
Mr. Dougherty, general secretary of
the A.W.U., has just returned from that
tour as enthusiastic as was the British
trade-union team which went some
months earlier. A.C.T.U. president
Monk has now gone overseas to
the 1.L.0. conference in Brussels
and to conferences with the British
Trade Union Congress in London,
taking in on the way home an Asian sub-
sidiary 1.L.0. conference at Bandoeng in
Java, where the A.B.C. announced he
“will represent the trade-unions of the
world.” Whatever that may mean in
the accrediting of Mr. Monk it does not
seem to lift the Bandoeng conference to
great status.
Meanwhile insight into the Ameri-
can industrial revolution in high produc-
tion is coming to Mr. Monk at second-
hand. He was undoubtedly influenced by
the report of the visiting British T.U.C.
team in his recent statement urging Aus-
tralian unions’ co-operation with em-
ployers for higher production as “essential
to prevent undue inflation.” He will hear
much more about the American condi-
tions when he gets to England and talks
with British trade-union leaders, to whom
their American tour was, in their own
words, one which “will remain long in
our memories as a most stimulating ex-
perience.” At the 1.L.0. conference he
will hear something of the latest report of
the body’s director-general, which
discerned “a trend of the greatest signi-
ficance in a number of countries” for
trade-unions to abandon their cautious
reserve towards measures to increase pro-
ductivity of labor in favor of “positive
and vigorous support for and co-opera-
tion in such measures.”
Higher productivity and this recipe for
pursuing it are not only the essential
driving force in American industrial life,
but have won popularity also in Sweden,
where the unions have insisted on in-
centives for industry to plough back its
profits into improved equipment; in
Denmark, where the Government 12
months ago appointed a joint production
committee to promote industrial
efficiency; and in the border satellite
States of Soviet Russia, where the 1.L.0.
reports that “systems of payment by
results are becoming almost universal.”
Last week Mr. Monk left Australia
with echoes of applause (from Common-
wealth Ministers) and hoots (from sundry
trade-union quarters) ringing in his ears
because, after declaring that employers
must readjust themselves and improve
their industrial techniques, he went on:
We urge upon the workers in the basic
industries of coal, steel and transport
particularly the necessity of improving their
production and handling, not only in their
own interests but in those of the other
workers in the Commonwealth and the
development of Australia as a nation.
He still would not say the words “joint
consultation” or anything about co-
operation with employers for incentive
payments, profit-sharing and reduction of
costs. Mr. Dougherty, of the A.W.U. —
with first-hand experience of something
better which Mr. Monk has been denied —
gets nearer to the root of the matter.
He told ffie Melbourne “Age” on his
return to Australia last week:
If Australia is to play its proper part
among the democratic nations of the world
it should do everything possible to increase
production of consumer goods. The main
responsibility for this must rest with
management, which must rid itself of
inefficient and time-wasting methods.
Throughout my inspection of American
industry I could not fail to be impressed
by the efficiency of technical planning, the
minimum wastage of materials and man-
power and the abolition of drudgery for
the worker.
At no time did I see any sign of the worker
being exploited. Rather 1 was impressed
at the way in which management consults
the worker on improving output and work-
ing conditions Efficient and economical
production is a two-way job. Both manage-
ment and men must play a part. Australian
management must provide not only the
plant but efficient methods for the Aus-
tralian worker to do the job.
True, “the main responsibility must
rest on management.” But there is some-
thing else needed at the outset. In the
present temper of Australian unions,
speaking generally, management rightly
requires some agreement and guarantee
that unions will respond fairly to its
efforts to introduce modern plant and
scientific technique. The agreement re-
quired is not one which can be sought in,
and enforced by, the Arbitration Court;
it can come only from some common
basis of goodwill and appreciation of the
need for good relations on the job by
both managements and unions. The
American example is not perfect; indeed,
the Americans themselves admit that the
new order has only just begun. But the
industrial picture that industry in U.S.A.
presents is one of enormous ethical, as
well as material, advance on the British
scene and throws our own still more into
the shade.
The British T.U.C.’s mission to U.S.A.
was to discover whether the methods and
techniques understood by the term
“scientific management” flourished in
America “in spite of the trade-unions or
because of them.” It found that Ameri-
can unions press for increased wages,
not in strife with employers, but to
compel them to reduce costs through
use of modernised plant and improved
production techniques. The unions realise
that increased production will lead to
lower consumer costs.
There is no serious opposition in the
unions to such new methods, but rather
pride in modern equipment and its efficient
working.
Personal and day-to-day contacts between
union shop-committeemen and manage-
ments smooth out difficulties before they
grow into disputes. Frequently these union
committeemen are employed by the com-
panies for this service.
The mission was impressed with the
welfare and pension-schemes run by com-
panies, and with the trade-union education
and research departments, particularly the
activities of union production-engineers. In
the leading unions time-and-motion-study
and scientific-management techniques are no
longer opposed. The unions, from con-
centrating upon seeing that they are not
misused, are beginning even to co-operate
in them to their members’ advantage.
High profits" are not regarded as anti-
social. Rather they are esteemed a proof
of solvency and efficiency. The main con-
cern of unions is to obtain a fair share
of them.
The mission reported that American
operatives in industry are provided with
two or three times the mechanical power
available to British factory workers. It
adds: “Within conditions of full employ-
ment it is very doubtful if wage-increases
secured by British unions would neces-
sarily lead to an increased rate of
mechanisation and hence productive effi-
ciency.” It recommended;
That a wage-policy in which earnings are
related to output and factory-efficiency is
the obvious one for unions to pursue.
That where managements are progressive
and seeking to use “scientific-management”
techniques to step-up production, unions
should co-operate; and where managements
are not sufficiently enterprising and pro-
gressive unions must press them to step-up
efficiency.
That the new techniques call for an
extension of trade-union educational facili-
ties to teach members modern methods of
production, management, engineering and
joint consultation.
That formal joint consultation has an
important part'to play in the development
of “industrial democracy.”
That the T.U.C. should have a staff to
help and guide union production-depart-
ments, and that small full-time staffs of
technicians or production-engineers should
be employed to train workshop representa-
tives in techniques of production and
joint consultation.
That in initiating or participating in
incentive schemes unions should seek to
increase production-efficiency through a
greater use of mechanical aids and time-
and-motion studies in order to maximise
earning opportunities.
To which must be appended, for Aus-
tralia, the footnote that a beginning with
all or any such reform must lie in the
modernising of the coal industry in its
every aspect. On the coalfields, on the
wharves, and in the shipping-service con-
trol it lies with implacable enemies of
higher production for any sake whatever.
The Spectre on the Roads.
Accompanied by a record of casualties
which ought to shock the entire populace,
there has been another outcry about
the need for stopping road accidents. The
only thing new about it is the record of
casualties —1643 dead and 31,447 injured
throughout Australia in 1949-50—for
interested bodies have been seeking road
safety for at least 25 years.
Death and injury on the roads is alarm-
ing practically every country in the world.
There is a big concentration of public
and private interest on ways and means
of reducing the accident-rate. For a
decade at least road-safety propaganda
has been poured out through every pub-
licity medium —even in classes at school.
Large sums are spent annually in educa-
tion and the provision of all sorts of safety
devices as well as in the maintenance of
special police. Still the toll of death
and injury mounts ; last year the economic
loss from road accidents was “conser-
vatively” estimated at £lB million, and
the road-casualty rate was higher than
the active-service casualty rate during five
years of war.
What is to be done that hasn’t already
been done? For a beginning, the road-
safety people might do some research on
the times of accidents, with special atten-
tion to the closing-hour for hotels ; the
State Governments could go into the
matter of penalties for traffic breaches.
Are the penalties severe enough to be
deterrent? How often is an offender,
convicted of drunken or otherwise reck-
less driving, penalised and the penalty
then reduced to absurdity on appeal?
The licensing system needs tightening.
It should not be possible for a youth of
17 to 20 to get a licence to drive a light
car and then get into a huge motor-trans-
port and hurl it along at high speed.
Far too many of the drivers of these
vehicles which are involved in accidents
are mere boys. The motor-cycle is a
prolific killer of youths of both sexes,
mainly because it is capable of dangerous
speeds. Yet the country would lose little
if motor-cycles were abolished or their
engines governed down to safe speeds.
In Sydney a considerable force of
parking police spends the day marking
cars and trucks standing still. No police,
apparently, spend any time outside
suburban hotels between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m.
checking the sobriety of those who emerge
from them to drive away in vehicles, the
driving of which demands sobriety above
all else.
The adult pedestrian seems beyond
help or protection. The only place to
begin with pedestrians is in the schools,
where such good work has already been
done that the average schoolchild is tar
more “safety-conscious” than its parents.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The United States Elections.
Mid-term polls for U.S. Congress and
State governorships reproduced generally
the swing from the Left which charac-
terised last year’s elections in Britain and
Australia. The “New Deal,” like the
“Welfare State,” has got to be propor-
tioned to the cost of the thing—that is
one fair interpretation of the verdict.
Earlier hifalutin notions that costs did
not matter to a generation acclimatised
to astronomical costs of the world wars
have plainly got to be revised.
Commentators on the scene agree that
detestation of the Communists and all
their works has got a stronger hold with
electors than Democrat Congressmen
reckoned. It undoubtedly produced vic-
tory for Senator Taft (joint author of
the Taft-Hartley Labor Act to curb
strikes), against whom the united efforts
of labor unions were concentrated in
Ohio ; and it swept away Senator Tydings
in Maryland, who challenged as “a fraud
and a hoax” Senator McCarthy’s charges
of Communist activities in the State De-
partment. The Washington correspondent
of London “Times,” three days before
the poll, concluded that the signs of
popular feeling would be read in the
fate on the Republican side of Conserva-
tive men like Senators Taft, Millikin of
Colorado, Hickenlooper of lowa, Cope-
hait of Indiana —isolationists or semi-
isolationists —and on the Democrat side
of men like Senate-leader Scott Lucas
of Illinois, his Whip, Senator Myers of
Pennsylvania, Senator Elbert Thomas,
leader of the Senate Labor Committee,
and Representative Helen Douglas, a
“New Deal” stalwart of California.
When the news from Korea came on top
of the Republicans’ decision to make the
Truman foreign policy a main issue,
these tail-poppies among Democrats,
along with about a quarter of their fel-
low-Congressmen in the House of Repre-
sentatives, were indicated as fearing the
worst. Their fears came true. There
were evidently a lot of Middle West votes
which Mr. Truman (from Missouri)
failed to hold.
The Truman party has felt the impact
from belated disillusionment of the pub-
lic about the Roosevelt policy towards
Russia and China. Whether or not the
late President was deceived at Yalta —a
charge which his assistant, the late E. R.
Stettinius, fervently denied—something
clearly went wrong with the perform-
ance of the Yalta agreement after Roose-
velt’s death. The American estimation of
Chiang Kai-shek’s standing in China has
also been clearly a grave mistake, and
though President Truman inherited that,
too, he has not corrected it, and his party,
anyway, has to carry the political con-
sequences at home. State Secretary
Dean Acheson is being marked as a
scapegoat. The American public is dis-
posed to prefer the judgment of General
MacArthur,
Mr. lohn Foster Dulles, the Republi-
can liaison-officer with the Secretary of
State under “bipartisan” direction of
foreign policy, has recently published a
book to demonstrate his party’s faith in
the European policy of the Government,
and if there is any hardening in admini-
stration of American financial aid under
E.R.P. it is expected to be shown in
greater insistence upon European self-
help. How far the increased Republican
influence over Congress may deflect cur-
rent policy towards Asia rather than
Europe remains to be seen.
As affecting domestic affairs, an out-
standing feature of the elections was the
vote for Governor Dewey in New York,
where he was re-elected on a bigger vote
than in any of his previous campaigns.
This is seen as a pointer for the Presi-
dential elections of 1952.
A. P. Herbert.
A. P. Herbert was the guest of honor
at the English Association’s annual dinner
at Sydney University. The Bulletin
went along, and, to its surprise, not being
accustomed to move in such augustly
Bohemian circles, found that the president,
R. G. Howarth, had seated it at the table
of honor between Miss Phyllis Mander-
Jones of the Mitchell Library and Lady
Gillan, the wife of the Australian repre-
sentative of the British Council; at one
remove from Chief Justice Street and
about three removes from Sir Alan him-
self.
The Bulletin felt itself honored; and
the more so when several speakers praised
this paper’s “consistent support of Aus-
tralian literature.”
Sir Alan, it is true, having to make
his sixth speech in the 36 hours since he
had landed, seemed a little vague, and
dimly offered to sign The Bulletin’s
menu-card and asked it what it had
written. But the last time he was out
here, representing “Punch” at the Imperial
Press Conference, he had called of his
own accord to exchange greetings with
The Bulletin, found almost everybody
out of the office, and remarked how
much it reminded him of “Punch.”
So all that was pretty gratifying. It
was pleasing, even a little awe-inspiring,
to see among the guests so many of the
contributors, past and present, regular
and irregular, who have made it possible
for The Bulletin to print a certain
amount of Australian literature: the
immortal Miles Franklin representing the
novelists; Margaret Trist and Ken Levis
among the short-story writers; and the
poets Rosemary Dobson, Mary Lisle,
Dora Wilcox, Nancy Keesing, Peter Hope-
good, David Rowbotham and Roland E.
Robinson. It was also pleasing to learn
from the Chief Justice and Mr. James
Meagher that Australians could make
speeches quite as witty as A. P, Herbert’s.
But amongst all the feast of goodwill
one odd question kept presenting itself.
A. P. Herbert will always be welcome,
but what exactly is he here for? Why
the Oliviers and the other mysterious
emissaries the British Council has sent or
proposes to send to these shores?
There can be no doubt, surely, about
Australia’s loyalty to the Empire in war.
There is not even a need to remind us
ITCHY FEET.
in peace—when if only for his war-time
ode to an egg, which so much moved him
that in the end he couldn’t eat the egg,
A. P. Herbert is an immortal delight to
us —that Britain has a culture immensely
more mature than our own. Probably
Australians know far more about A. P.
Herbert’s light verse than about that of
“T. the R.,” who, though he confined him-
self too much to topicalities, was very
nearly as adroit.
Perhaps it is felt that the Empire is
somehow strengthened by these personal
contacts; and no doubt it is. But the
real problem, if a cultural unity is to be
achieved, is not to make Australia aware
of English culture but to make England
aware of Australia.
That, too, may be part of the British
Council’s plans. Olivier established an
Australian actor, Peter Finch, as a suc-
cess on the English stage. And if A. P.
Herbert gets a chance between speeches
The Bulletin hopes that he will pack a
few representative Australian books —
poetry, novels, short stories, belles lettres
—for the earnest consideration of English
publishers.
Boring, Perhaps, But True.
The larger and more involved the Aus-
tralian economy becomes the more
opportunities there are for wholesale
political humbug and mass economic de-
ception. It is only because of the com-
plexity of our present way of life, with
economic forces and factors so widely
separated and political “control” so
remote, that the Socialist and Communist
parties have for so long been able to sell
the public ideas of more play and less
work for more and more money.
Today we have arbitration courts to
fix wages, make cost-of-living adjust-
ments and determine working hours and
conditions. We have a centralised money-
manufacturing mechanism based on the
Federal Budget. We have a “full-em-
ployment” policy and “social security.”
We have a great production potential.
But we haven’t nearly enough coal,
and we haven’t enough actual production
of most of the necessities of life.
The fact that we all have so much
money is one reason why we haven’t
enough production to meet demand. An
abundance of paper money has brought
about a tendency to work less and to
spend more.
The Bulletin was the first to sum-
marise the remedy for post-war inflation
as being a fair day’s work for a fair day’s
pay. This principle represents, more than
ever, the essence of our economic obliga-
tions to each other regardless of present-
day complexities. The remedy now has
almost a world-wide advocacy, but we
still find people who become bored with
its repetition.
Politicians, university graduates and
Communists have all played their part in
miseducating the people about their eco-
nomic responsibilities and privileges.
They have stressed the idea of pay and
other rewards without emphasising the
necessity for diligent and conscientious
work. We have to realise that, with
economic controls so centralised as they
are today, when we go wrong we go
wrong in a big way. At the moment we
are not producing enough, and the de-
ficiency is a gross one in important items
like coal and steel.
There is no escape-route round the
problem. We simply have to find ways
and means of producing more, even if
some people do get a little tired of being
repeatedly told of it.
"Capital Erosion."
Today all industry is wearing out plant in
producing goods which are sold for
money that has a daily-falling buying-
power. When the plant is ultimately
worn out it may cost two or three times
its original value to replace. Prices per-
mitted by price-controllers and tax con-
cessions allowed by tax authorities will
not provide sufficient reserves to cover
its replacement. More capital will have
to be found from some source to enable
it to be replaced. And real capital is
diminishing in supply.
This is one of the big problems raised
by the inflationary forces at work in our
present eqpnomy. Industry is being de-
prived of its bones and muscles by a
price and taxation policy which does not
allow for provision against the ravages
of inflation.
The matter has been raised, in its taxa-
tion aspect, very forcibly by the Colonial
Sugar Refining Co. In a booklet entitled
Capital Erosion and the Income-tax
Assessment Act the C.S.R. contends that
present Australian taxation of business
incomes contains a substantial element of
capital levy, disguised as taxation of so-
called “profits” Present rules for com-
puting taxable profits ignore the effects of
inflation and higher cost-levels on the
ability of a business (and of Australian
industry generally) to preserve its pro-
ductive capacity. This is the result of
restricting allowances for depreciation to
original money cost and ignoring the fact
that it costs much more to replace stocks
of materials and worn or outmoded plant.
The essence of the C.S.R.’s argument is
that “the cost of (at least) preserving
productive capacity should be an allow'-
able deduction in computing taxable in-
come.” And in order to achieve this end
—to defeat “capital erosion” that is
occurring through the joint influences of
taxation and inflation —it is suggested that
a general plant-cost index be established
by the Commonwealth Statistician, and
that depreciation allowances each year be
multiplied by that year’s inflation factpr,
so that when the plant has to be replaced
there will be enough untaxed funds to
provide for its restoration.
The C.S.R.’s argument is clearly
equitable, and in the booklet there are
explanations and illustrations to suggest
that the plan is practicable. But not
merely equity is concerned. The whole
Australian economy at present is short
of capital goods—that is, essential pro-
ductive plant—whilst consumer demand
is increasing daily. We need more
machines, and more horsepower per
worker, instead of less. Obviously
“capital erosion,” as it is aptly termed,
in the circumstances is a major industrial
menace.
Mr. Finnan's Bright Idea.
It was sheer Socialist propaganda
that McGirr Prices Minister Finnan put
up to the Prime Minister about the
virtues of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment joining the State boys to control
prices. None of the other State Ministers
would have wagered a tramfare on Mr.
Menzies falling for it, and the bland Mr.
Finnan himself must have reckoned his
chances of pulling it off about equal to
those of his winning a by-election in
Darlinghurst. It is to be hoped the P.M.
asked him about the Government price
of fish in N.S.W.
The proposal put up was that the
Menzies Government should circumvent
the “No” vote on the Socialists’ 1948
Prices referendum, abandon its own
election policy and adopt that of the
defeated Chifleyites, and subsidise costs
of commodities to assure “reasonable
ceilings on home-consumption prices”
while influential trade-unions in Mr.
Finnan’s party are hitting up those same
prices as high as they can as a matter
of union policy. It was also requested
that the Commonwealth Government
should accept the States’ direction of its
financial administration, appoint a special
Minister to co-operate with the States in
that effort, and switch Customs, excise,
sales and other Federal taxes to Mr.
Finnan’s wishes as chairman of a new
inter-State financial board known as
States’ Prices Ministers’ Conference.
Mr. Menzies politely told them that he
really couldn’t do something the electors
had voted against, that the Common-
wealth was already committed to paying
£44,500,000 in price-subsidies this year,
was about to subsidise woollen goods,
and that he would appoint a senior official
as liaison between the S.P.M.C. and
himself to afford all possible help in a
difficult State task.
The Australian public should entirely
agree with this stand, seeing that
any general subsidising of prices is
a delusion and a waste of money in that
there can be no “reasonable ceiling”
established without wage-pegging, ration-
ing and harder work all round, and prob-
ably also the compulsory suppression of
some industries (such as mid-week racing
and dogs) and the compulsory direction
of labor towards higher output of neces-
sary goods in short supply.
Even then subsidies, of course, do not re-
duce prices but only conceal .them, and the
blackmarket —which Mr. Finnan should
get some of his Darlinghurst electors
to tell him about some day—would fight
such price-controls with all its old war-
time enthusiasm and extra advantages
from the current conditions of “peace.”
Pity Our Fathers!
“C.S.”; One of the latest Gallup Polls
has discovered that 60 p.c. of Australians
believe that they are better off than their
fathers were. I shouldn’t have thought
such an obvious fact needed proving.
When I compare my father’s lot when
I was a child with mine now that I am
a father, I cannot escape a deep feeling
of pity for the old man. There he was,
with a wife and six kids to feed and
clothe. His wife was a rather dull woman
who seemed incapable of doing anything
save cook a dashed good meal for eight
people, keep six kids clean and under
control, make her own and the kids’
clothes, keep the home fresh and tidy,
and hold the affection and respect of her
family.
The poor woman seemed to think that
it was undignified for a wife to go to
work while she had a husband to support
her ; she knew nothing of glamor, didn’t
realise the necessity of trying to look like
a film-star, didn’t smoke, and, when she
drank, took a little wine after St. Pauls
axiom, for her stomach’s sake. True, she
had a nice laugh and seemed friendly,
but she wouldn’t have been in the race
with a modern woman —poor old Dad
never knew what he missed.
As for him, he never owned a motor-
car or a radio, and his weekly income
would have horrified a 1950 Sydney
((Continued on next page.)


mm
mm
• *.
B
:x:-:,
pw:y.;: :
. .S*x
•Xv.
m
m
mm.
For your throat’s sake
CRAVENA
Always reliable
Obtainable In
10’s & 20’s
sdf
CARRERAS LIMITED ■ OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY)
suburban newsboy. Nobody in the Par-
liament worried about giving him social
security from the cradle to the grave,
and what he got he had to dashed well
earn. What’s more, he actually worked
48 hours a week, and though the pubs
were open till 11 p.m. there were no
night dogs or trots to afford him that
recreational relaxation which is the
merited reward of the working man.
The poor old cove was a victim of a
crool system, hence he believed that the
best way to get anything was to work
for it. So he bunged a few bob in the
bank every week, had a little insurance
and often declared that he wouldn’t “take
a bob from the Government or anyone
else.” Once he had the awful experience
of carrying a swag in search of work, and
was so blind to his economic slavery or
whatever the term is that he actually
enjoyed it. It’s just as well for the future
progress of the Welfare State that the
old man and his mates are all dead.
Look how much better off I am. There
are more notes in my weekly pay than
he got in a month. I can go to the
pictures or the dogs or the trots every
night or stay home and listen to the radio.
I needn’t read a book or save a bean
(not that I can, but that doesn’t matter)
or even think about anything. I’m sup-
posed to work 40 hours a week, but if I
do 25 the boss thinks he’s lucky—he’s
even lucky to be a boss, because that
will only last till Mr. Chifley gets back
and brings in Socialism. Then I’ll be
boss —I hope.
Nobody looked after my old man.
Everybody wants to look after me. Mr.
McGirr in Sydney and Mr. Chifley and
Mr. Ward in Canberra do nothing else but
worry about blokes like me, wanting to
give us security and constant wage-rises
and shorter hours and free medicine, and
Ministers are busting themselves trying
to get hold of my eldest child and give
him a Government job. If it wasn’t for
that Mr. Menzies and the mugs who
voted for him I probably wouldn’t have
to work at aIU
My old man was nothing like as well
off as I am. He might have got his meat
and vegetables cheaper and paid only
50-bob for a suit and a penny on the
tram and a trey for 12 cigarettes and
another trey for his pint and not been
troubled by stomach-ulcers and a wife
desperately trying to keep up with rising
costs. He didn’t have any blackouts and
regular transport strikes and black-
markets and things like that, but he was a
victim, just the same. Whereas I am a
beneficiary of the New Order and go
about as joyful as an undertaker and as
full of song as a crow.
POLITICAL POINTS
That queer Soviet bird which mas-
querades as a dove of peace is having
difficulty in finding a place on which to
settle. Its phony “World Peace Con-
gress,” which was switched to Sheffield
after Italy had refused to put up with it,
has now been transferred to Warsaw, It
held a one-day session in Sheffield on
Monday, but the Warsaw decision had
already been made. Reason for the
change of plan was that British security
officials had apparently advised against
the admission of the big majority of Reds,
near-Reds and N.K.V.D. men who had
been intended to dominate the congress.
The Warsaw show begins tomorrow.
Comrades Healy and Hughes and
others who went from this country to the
Peace Congress were given passports
which specifically excluded travel to Iron
Curtain countries, and Australia House
has been told to refuse any variation. If
any of them travel to Warsaw without a
permit Mr. Holt says “a serious view”
will be taken of it. What that means
remains to be seen.
With his Senate majority reduced at
the mid-term elections to the narrowest
possible margin—the composition of the
House is Democrats, 49 ; Republicans, 47
—President Truman will probably be glad
of a few tips on how to win snap divi-
sions. Attlee could give him a few —
last week the British Socialists managed
to survive three close calls, their narrowest
escape being by a margin of 10. Mc-
Girr’s tactics should also be of interest
to Truman ; they entail three main lines
of procedure: (1) Reliance on the votes
of two “Labor” men whom the party
executive tossed out before the last elec-
tion ; (2) the casting-vote of the Speaker
when the party Whip loses trace of a man
and the voting is equal; and (3) a motion
of rescission when the Government loses
a division.
All three measures were employed last
week when the Lib.-C.P. Opposition
caught the Government off balance and
succeeded in forcing through a motion
disallowing proposed increases in rail
fares and freights. Geraghty, M.L.A. for
North Sydney, who has vowed a vow that
he will not support the Government on
rail fares while the Harbor Bridge toll
remains in force, had a bit both ways
during the argument on the rescission. His
vote helped the Government to win
gagging motions 45-43, but he walked out
before the vote on the actual restoration
of the increases. Whereupon in walked
a Liberal who had been kept in reserve,
making the vote 44 all. Speaker Lamb
saved the day. Up go fares and freights!
Breathing freely again now that it is
satisfied that there will be no double-
dissolution before Christmas, the A.L.P.
“Standard” remarks “Apparently the
Menzies Government has had second-
thoughts, and it will now take ‘Labor’
all its time to force the Government to
the country.” This is rather choice in
view of the fact that “Labor” squibbed
“forcing” the Government on the anti-
Red Act, and has now, through delaying
tactics over the Bank Bill, brought about
a situation where the Government is not
sufficiently sure that it has an iron-bound
case on the failure-to-pass issue, and is
consequently allowing the Parliament to
survive into the New Year.
Had “Labor’s” Senate majority re-
ferred the Bank Bill to a Select Com-
mittee last week instead of merely stating
its intention of so doing the position
might have been different, but apparently
until that has been done it cannot be
assumed that it will be done. Whatever
justification there may be for the Gov-
ernment to avoid asking for a double-
dissolution on these grounds there is none
for the reason advanced by one of its
spokesmen—that the rolls aren’t ready.
If the rolls aren’t ready after double-
dissolution talk has been in the air ever
since this Parliament opened then some-
one should be asked to explain why not.
Calwell tried to run counter to “Labor”
policy last week when he told a some-
what astonished House that “Until we
divide Australia into more States we will
not get that decentralisation which is
necessary to the national development and
security of the people.” But he wasn’t
allowed to get away with it. At the
first opportunity up jumped Ward to
declare that Australia would not develop
until all powers were centred in Canberra.
Ward speaks for “Labor,” which can’t
socialise us until the States are abolished.
Give Calwell his due, he’s capable of
making a good quip. In the Budget
debate he referred to Fadden’s increased
sales tax on musical instruments and said
there was danger of all the pipe bands
in Australia gathering outside the “Labor’
party’s rooms and playing “Will ye no’
come back again?” Government mem-
bers might have raised a point of order
on whether or not bagpipes are musical
instruments, but with the Scots working
for a Parliament of their own such com-
ment might have been dangerous.
Writing to Melbourne “Argus” from
London, Trevor Williams remarked that
“astonishing things do take place in this
little island. Where else, for example,
would a local dignitary take a candle and
a box of matches in his pocket to a
council meeting in case the lights failed?”
Well, there’s Sydney.
Enthusiasm for the Victorian experi-
ment, conducted by Communist railway-
boss Brown, of doing without trains is
waning even among the unions. At the
weekend, just as everybody’s feelings
were being worked up to the hope that
somehow the Arbitration Could would
settle the “passive-time” issue although
the railway unions were still on strike,
Commo Brown announced that the
A.R.U. men would want an extra £l-a-
week marginal pay as well as “immediate
payment of the new basic-wage.”
This could only make the arbitration
system a laughing-stock or keep the
Victorian railways idle indefinitely.
The locomotive-drivers’ union promptly
announced it would be “no party
to Brown’s side - issues.” Ballarat
branch A.R.U. met and voted for
immediate resumption of work, but there
was only a small response by striking
railwaymen to the commissioner’s appeal
to report for the job of burning off grass
on the now dangerously-overgrown rail-
tracks. What this four weeks’ strike has
added to costs of living in Victoria seems
to be nobody’s business, least of all that
of a State Government which whines
about Canberra’s refusal to help by sub-
sidising rising prices.
The “Tribune,” official organ of the
Australian Communist party, makes no
secret as to its attitude towards Chinese
intervention in Korea. A front-page
article in the current issue begins:
The Chinese Government and people are
striking resounding blows for world peace,
as well as for the defence of their country,
by their active participation in the struggle
to defeat American imperialist aggression in
Korea.
Australian soldiers have been killed in
Korea by Chinese Communists who have
crossed the border to fight an undeclared
war. In the “Tribune” view this makes
the Diggers Imperialist aggressors.
“P.”: A little correction: It is to
charity, not to prizes (B. 8/11 / ’5O), that
N. S. Wales law requires art-unions to
allot 40 per cent, of proceeds. That’s
what Clive Evatt was talking about when
he said that War Veterans’ Art Union No.
14 had allocated only 33.3 per cent.
Prizes in the N. S. Wales State Lottery
amount to nearly 64 per cent, of gross
proceeds. One good thing which may
come of the probe into art-union pro-
cedure is that there will be an end to
the wholesale mailing of books of tickets
to persons who have never asked for or
offered to sell them. The proposal is
that no books should be posted except
in response to a written order.
Reports of brawls between headmasters
and the hauling of one before the Public
Service Board for allegedly saying that.
Australian troops in Korea were a lot
of baby-killers distinguished the closing
sessions of the Sydney school year in the
week before a multitude of youngsters
sat for Intermediate and Leaving examina-
tions. The board gave the gentleman
the benefit of the doubt when he said that
his actual remark, directed to another
master by way of interjection, was
“Fascist, friend of baby-killers.” It all
arose out of the grip the Reds have on
the N. S. Wales Teachers’ Federation.
Nothing was heard from the erudite
gentleman who is Minister for Edu-
cation, though thousands of parents
are mighty disturbed about the possibili-
ties of Red teachers impregnating their
youngsters with the Communist creed.
N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture
Graham is “very dissatisfied” with the
running of the Sydney City Market. So
is every housewife and almost every
retail fruit-and-veges merchant in Sydney.
If that mythical person, the man on the
basic-wage, has any gumption at all, in-
stead of paying for the upkeep of his
wife out of the £8 6s. the court now con-
siders necessary for the support of him-
self, herself and family, he will have the
lady taught typewriting. She will then be
able to bring him in £8 16s. lOd. a week
while he stays home and looks after the
kids. That is, provided she i 5,23 or over ;
if she’s only 22 it will pay him to work
himself, because she will only be entitled
to £8 ss. Figures are from the Sydney
Metropolitan Newspapers Clerical
Award, adjusted in accord with the
recent Arbitrtion Court judgment.
Those people urging Federal price-
control should watch their step. The
Israeli Religions Minister was recently
approached by some Arab sheikhs who
wanted Government price-control applied
to wives.
It looks as if U.N.O. will shortly be
called upon to appoint a mediator to go
out beyond the Blue Mountains of N. S.
Wales to prevent rivalry between Orange
and Bathurst from breaking out into open
warfare. Justice Dwyer started it when,
unable to secure hotel accommodation in
Bathurst during Supreme Court sittings,
he booked in at an Orange pub, journey-
ing to and from Bathurst each day. The
judge, after remarking that he had seri-
ously considered jailing a few Bathurst
publicans for contempt of court for fail-
ing to provide him and his staff
with bed and board, went on to
speak of “increasing evident stages
of public-house dilapidation and
decrepitude in Bathurst.” In conclusion
he intimated that he thought Orange was
a much better town than Bathurst, any-
way, and it might be a good idea to shift
the court there. Bathurst Bungs are talk-
ing of asking McGirr to make the judge
apologise and to prevent “privileged
public servants” from saying things like
that.
The “Labor** Opposition spent most of
the entire debating time on the Fadden
Budget shrieking to heaven about the
“pore woolgrower” and how he is to be
robbed by the “pay-as-you-shear” tax
on wool. It must have been refreshing to
the jumbuck-owners to find they have so
many friends in a party which tried to
“nationalise” the banks as a first step in
the Socialist plan of “nationalising the
means of production, distribution and ex-
change,” in which private ownership of
farms and stations, would have been an
early casualty.
Senator McKenna has made a sugges-
tion that the Senate should set up “a
non-political body of its members” to
advise the Commonwealth on the States’
finances. As the Senate is supposed to
be a States House there may be something
in the idea, but unfortunately, as Mc-
Kenna well knows, it would have
Buckley’s chance of being non-political.
Any “Labor” Senator appointed to it
would have to take his orders from the
Outside Dozen.


NOT IN THE RACE.
In 1949-50 1643 people were killed and 31,447 injured on Australian roads. The road-casualty rate was 82 per cent. greater than the active-service casualty-rate
during World War II.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Pip Tok”: Cabled story of the
mannequin at a Danish fashion-show
who, at the bidding of the announcer,
took off the housecoat she was wearing in
order to display an elegant slip and then
discovered just
after the audience
—that she had for-
gotten to put on
the slip recalled an
advertisement in-
serted in the Press
during the war
by the Westralian
Tramways Depart-
ment. It stated that
the dep a r tment
would meet the manpower shortage by
employing women conductors on the
Perth trams, but, because of the diffi-
culty in obtaining suitable cloth, there
would be some delay in providing uni-
forms. Then followed the intriguing
statement —“The girls will work in
shifts.”
* * * ♦
“W.L.”: Upton Sinclair, with O
Shepherd, Speak! has now completed his
“World’s End” series in 10 volumes.
Running into three million words,
this series was started 10 years
ago, and covers the period 1919
to 1946. It deals with the adventures
of one Lanny Budd, who, as President
Roosevelt’s, and later President Truman’s,
confidential agent, managed to be around
when most of the world-shaking events
of the last two decades took place.
Sinclair, who started off by writing pot-
boilers to work his way through college,
then turned to novels with a purpose,
had already written 60 books when at the
age „ of 62 he started on the “World’s
End series. From then on he produced
annual instalments, the sales of which
averaged 91,000 copies in the English
language. O Shepherd, Speak! takes
Lanny Budd through the closing stages
of the fighting in Germany and the
Pacific to the days of an uneasy peace.
* * * *
“T. McN.”: Nobody expects a Gov-
ernment-run concern to show a profit—
one usually hopes they won’t show too
much loss —and it is no surprise that the
Government - run boarding - houses in
Canberra showed a collective loss of
nearly £53,000 last year. I’ve never
stayed at a Government-run boarding-
house, but I’ve stayed at a multitude of
others, and it seems that these Govern-
ment shows overlook ways and means of
making the things pay. For instance, do
they know that after Sunday dinner the
joint can provide the curry on Monday,
the sea-pie on Tuesday and stock for
Wednesday’s soup? A bread-and-butter
pudding, properly handled and suitably
disguised, will provide “sweets” for four
days, and one pot of tea, properly fed,
will last a day. Cheese, ostensibly put
on the table for eating, if allowed to —
er —mature, will last for ever, and a good
helping of cabbage (half-cooked) will
generally stop half the boarders eating
for the next two days. If there is
no cabbage, similarly treated apple-
dumplings will do the trick. It strikes me
that what those Canberra hashhouses
need is good management.
=l= * * *
“Mark Heim”: “Uramao’s” story of
Dr. Johnson’s pension (B. 1/11/ ’5O)
recalls one told about J. M. Barrie and
Max Beerbohm. At the funeral of
George Meredith in 1909 a Barrie fan
dashed up to Max. “Mr. Barrie,” she
gushed. “You are Mr. Barrie, aren’t
you? Will you write something for me
in my autograph-book? Please do! ” The
book was produced. Beerbohm wrote.
“Ay, Lassie! It’s a sad day the noo.
J. M, Barrie.”
* * * *
“Uco”: As a result of the tragic death
of two small boys who, wandering off
from a picnic at Portland (N.S.W.), were
found dead on a ledge in a tunnel high
up in the side of an old quarry, the
member for the district is urging Parlia-
ment to bring in legislation requiring all
quarries to be adequately fenced. In
doing so he is no doubt inspired by the
highest motives, but I can’t help feeling
that he must have forgotten his own child-
hood. A fence might have the effect of
keeping toddlers, drunks and wandering
stock from accidentally running into
danger, but to the average small boy a
fence is a challenge, not a barrier.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: All I said was that people
who enter pole-sitting contests or wager
to consume fantastic numbers of pies
within a time-limit should be sprinkled
with insect-powder. That started it.
Somebody had seen a bloke sink his own
height in beer while the clock struck 12
—the glasses being stood on one another
“Too late! I married him to one of the bridesmaids.”
with a piece of cardboard in between.
Another chap had seen some nitwit win
a bet that he could chew up a beer-glass.
Tom had seen two blokes have a race
through Echuca —both pushing a peanut
along the road with their noses. That
brought Joe in. It wasn’t possible, he
declared ; a bloke trying that in Echuca
word be ridden over by 47 bikes before
he had pushed his peanut 20 yards. No
town in Australia could muster so many
pushbikes to the square inch! George
challenged that statement; if there were
more bikes in Echuca than there were in
Grafton he’d eat all their inner-tubes.
Tom, surprisingly, supported the fellow
who had contradicted him: Grafton
couldn’t compare with Echuca —Echuca
was the only town in Australia with bike-
racks in the streets. Charlie, a Maori-
“Mine!”
lander, rushed in with “Bikes? There’s
more bikes in Dunedin than in any other
city in the world.” Big Carl couldn’t
let that pass: “In Copenhagen, bikes there
are very much. Not in the world could
there be bikes so many.” We’re thinking
of referring the matter to U.N.O.
* * * *
“Dahaka Las”: Mustard-gas (B.
11/10/’50)? After some strafing by the
Jerries, a First War Digger found a piece
of shell fragment of which the outline
depicted a rough map of Australia. He
put the memento in his hip-pocket. Later,
when he felt a burning sensation around
the seat of the souvenir, he hurriedly de-
bagged himself. The fragment was from
a mustard-gas shell and the souvenir-
hunter was indelibly branded with a red,
perspiration-produced map of Australia.
* * * *
“Tackline S.”: Erratic lifts (B.
1 /11/ ’50)? Offering her bright locks for
training hairdressers, a lass of my
acquaintance suffered many indignities
until at last an advanced pupil came
good. With the trainee’s work, the model
felt she was a “dead-cert” in a competi-
tion. Judging was to start at eight. With
a minute to go she pressed the automatic-
button and the lift jammed between floors.
Freed from her prison half an hour later
she presented her hair-do and alibi to
the judges, to find the prize already
scooped.
* * * *
“Craiser”: When Bernard Shaw went
to his first debating-society evening,
knowing nothing about public meetings
or their procedure, he entered with an air
of impudence, although he was really
nervous and self-conscious to a heart-
breaking degree. Yet he couldn’t hold
his tongue, and at the first chance he
jumped up and started talking, felt he
had made a fool of himself, as indeed he
had, and went home feeling so ashamed
of himself that he vowed he would join
the society, speak at every meeting and
become a public speaker or perish.
Although he suffered agonies nobody
suspected, he carried out his resolution,
haunted meetings all over London, spoke
at street corners, at demonstrations and
in the parks and infested public meetings
like a soldier who, fearing himself a
coward, takes every opportunity of going
under fire to conquer his cowardice.
Another individual might have excused
himself by calling debating senseless or
manufacturing a headache, and the head-
ache would have protected him from the
necessity of making any further effort.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Not so long ago Melbourne
critics, after seeing a Shaw play on
illegitimacy and unmarried mothers,
agreed almost unanimously that they
already knew all that and that Shaw was
hopelessly old-fashioned. They quite
forgot that the reason they knew it was
that Shaw had taught them. The ideas
and attitudes dramatised in the play were
so fresh and unusual when the play was
written that they caused a shock of horror,
and it was banned in several countries.
Canberra politicians no more realise that
Shaw is responsible for the fact that they
can talk glibly about and legislate for
de facto wives than the members of the
House of Commons know that the ladies’
lavatories got into their sacred precincts
because Shaw was the first person not to
be too ashamed and self-conscious to
remark that there was a discrepancy be-
tween the liberties accorded to the minds
and the bodies of the recently-elected first
female M.Ps.
* * * *
“Kelms”: If adaptability is a requisite
of race-survival, the Australian aborigine
may be staging a comeback. A W.A.
cocky noticed some of his jumbucks
shivering in their bare skins. Shorn? No,
plucked, clean as a whistle. There’s a
camp of blacks in the district and they
seem to be sharing in the prosperity which
wool has brought to their country.
* * * *
“Fitzjay”: If “Hamer” and George
Fitzpatrick didn’t start till 1919 they were
a long way from being pioneers of the no-
hat brigade. Twenty years before that
McMillan, of the old “Stock and Station
Journal,” was practising the cult. For a
long time he carried a hat in his hand
“to stop fools asking if he had lost his
hat.”
* ♦ * ♦
“Clooter”: I can only guess at the
careful calculations and checking
involved in a momentous discovery made
public by the N-S.W. Road Safety
Council last week. It was obviously only
after the most meticulous examination
that it “released” to the Press the
astounding information that “motor-
cyclists in the 17-24 age-group were re-
sponsible for 67.1 per cent, of accidents
attributable to motor - cyclists.” Of
course, to you and me the fact that few
people under 17 and not many over 24
ride motor-bikes, and that riding the
things is therefore almost confined to the
17-24 years group, would account for the
percentage, but then we don’t think of
things like that until after some statistical
genius has unearthed the figures from a
mass of data. Which goes to prove that
research is not entirely wasted. I presume
that now the R.S.C., having the figures
before it, will ask for legislation to pro-
hibit the riding of motor-bikes by
persons over 17 and under 24, and thus
either switch the percentage to some
other age-group or abolish it altogether.
For my part, I’ve long been convinced
that the best way to stop road accidents
is to ban the use of roads.
YA LYOUBLYOU OLGA.
In a Soviet tractor-factory on the boatman-
haunted Volga
Toiled a simple proletarian named Serge;
In the office of the factory was a costing-clerk
called Olga —
To serve the State her one compelling urge.
Here was a man; here was a maid—
Those facts at least are certain—
And their love was a love that would put in
the shade
The purest romance that was ever essayed
Outside the Iron Curtain.
Love at first sight?—Not in the style
Capitalist writers have painted.
’Twas the sight of the figures contained in
his file
That did the soft heart of fair Olga beguile—
Before they were even acquainted.
Love at first sight?—Serge was informed
Of the love the fair costing-clerk bore him;
The heart in his class-conscious bosom was
warmed,
An iron resolve deep within him he formed —
To shatter all records before him.
Quota per hour! Quota per week!
Serge was the boy to exceed ’em.
He began at the factory’s previous peak,
Establishing records in manner unique—
Faster than Olga could read ’em.
Love in full bloom; fair is the flower.
Life smiled on Serge and on Olga.
The highest rewards in the Soviet power
Descended on Serge in an unceasing shower —
Chief Stakhanovite of the Volga!
[Seventeen verses descriptive of burgeoning
love and constantly increasing industrial output
are here omitted through considerations of space.
At length there came a time when . . .]
Truth must be told, one day ill-starred—
Though nought can be gained by repining—
It happened that Olga, while checking his card,
Saw something that caused her to swallow quite
hard—
His output was clearly declining.
Great was her grief; duty was clear.
Serge to the Cause was a traitor.
(He’d permitted the love of a lass to besmear
What could have been quite an outstanding
career)
And she —a collaborator!
Love ruled her heart; love ruled her mind;
But duty her conscience directed.
The secret police she informed of her find
And they swooped down on Serge in a manner
unkind,
Before he had even suspected.
Serge heard her tale; love for his mate
Surged up like a flood on the Dneiper.
The deed she had done for the good of the
State
Demanded a gesture of similar weight
To prove that his passion went deeper.
Jocund his heart; joyous her mien;
When they took her to jail she exulted,
For the charge, laid by Serge, said her beauty
serene
Had distracted his thoughts from his noble
ipachine.
And a falling in output resulted.
In a Soviet tractor-factory on the boatman-
haunted Volga
Toiled a simple proletarian named Serge.
He’s not there any longer—with the costing-
clerk called Olga
He went floating down the Volga in a purge.
N.S.W.
JASBY.


“Bo”: It was a warm, still day, and
the fellow who got in a few more stations
down the line and sat alongside me (I
had the window-seat) looked across after
a while and with great significance first at
the closed carriage-window and then at
me. The next look he gave was even
more pointed, and I knew he was regard-
ing me as some hot-house pansy too frail
to stand a bit of fresh air. At last his
claustrophobia apparently asserted itself
for he said, “Could we have the window
open?” 1 waved a hand towards it and
murmured. “Help yourself, and the best
of luck.” I could see now he deemed me
a debilitated being, muscularly incapable
of hoisting a couple' of pounds of wood
and glass. Leaning over, he jerked it to
the limit notch, then leaned back trium-
phantly. Judiciously I moved my leaning
elbow 2in. in, and waited confidently,
eyeing him surreptitiously as he settled
down to his paper. Ten seconds later he
almost left the seat as the window crashed
down two notches. He glared malevo-
lently at it, and again I waited. Half a
minute later it fell with a clatter another
notch, thereafter at uncertain intervals
crashing down a notch at a time until it
was closed. I pushed it up again. “Third
carriage from the front,” I said. “It’s
an old friend I test now and then. It’s
been doing that for months, possibly
years. It will probably remain so till the
flaking paint that is now holding the
ancient carriage together at last fails and
they have to pension it off.”
* * * *
“Pat”: When I read, and later saw
filmed, Somerset Maugham’s short story
“The Kite” I could not credit that the
yarn had any basis of reality. What
grown man would attach such import-
ance to kite-flying? Well, my neighbor
has vindicated Maugham. He is a 30-
year-old medical student with final exams
less than a month
away, yet the
right breeze will
send him whisk-
ing on to the
rooftop with his
home - made toy,
and there he will
stay, oblivious
alike to telephone-
calls from the
girl-friend and his
mother’s cunning
tern ptations of
home - made
scones. And on Saturday afternoons it
is not the youth of the district who swarm
about him. The kids prefer “the pic-
tures,” but male parents can be seen
neglecting their garden duties to enjoy a
little instruction.
♦ * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: As one of its early con-
tributors, I join in regretting the passing
of “Smith’s Weekly” (B. l/11/’5O). My
first literary brainchild, a batch of
“epigrams” on racing, featured dead-
centre on the sporting page, appeared in
“Smith’s” about 1921. If memory serves
me well. Bulletin writers “5.W.K.,”
“W.P.T.,” “Hamer,” “Percy Pawnticket”
and “T.W.N.” were others associated with
the journal early in the piece; the most
prolific, probably, being the last-named,
Incidentally, what has happened to him?
We haven’t read of his beer and crayfish
° r B ieS f ° r a 8«-
* * *
‘Sam”: Writing of his impressions of
Australia American novelist James
A/r . , „ , , , . ,
Michener quoted an alleged saying about
this country; “It’s heaven for men and
dogs, and hell for women and horses.”
I’ve never heard of such a quip as applied
‘Now, here's Young and Jackson's . . ."
to Australia, but its source of inspiration
is obvious. Fuller’s Holy State, published
in 1642, quotes a proverb “England is a
prison for men, a paradise for women,
a purgatory for servants, a hell for
horses.” Round about the same time a
Duke of Wurtemburg, writing of his
travels in England, quoted a similar say-
ing which omitted the reference to men
and committed the servants to prison.
Another version still is an old Italian
proverb, also about England ; in this the
servants are ignored and the men con-
signed to purgatory. All versions agree
that the horses have a hell of a time.
* * * ♦
“Fairf”: Telling my dad some of
the highlights from W. E. Fitz Henry’s
recent lecture on Bulletin black-and-
white artists I noticed my sire pricking
up his ears at the mention of Phil May.
The paternal memory was stirring—with
this result; “Phil May drew a skit on
cricket for ‘Punch.’ Everybody in Eng-
land seemed to enjoy the joke—everybody
except W. G. Grace, who promptly sent
a reply-paid wire to the artist: ‘Why is
your cricketer wearing gloves when field-
ing in slips?’ No answer had come when
W.G. went to bed, but at two o’clock in
the morning a tattoo sounded on the
doorknocker. The bearded one climbed
out of his warm bed and went, grumbling
and shivering, to the front door. A very
cold boy with a wire in his hand stood
on the step. Grace took the telegram,
opened it, and read: ‘To keep his hands
warm.’ ”
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”; As the author of What
a Word! A. P. Herbert of all men
should not be misreported; especially
when the misquotation makes him the
perpetrator of a vulgar metaphor from
which his sensitive tongue would shrink
and shrivel with dismay. Let it be re-
corded, therefore, that at the English
Association dinner in Sydney he did not,
as one of the dailies reported, beg his
audience to “keep alive that great neck-
lace the English language, which encircles
the world with light, liberty and learn-
ing,” but to keep alive that great nexus.
What next!
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Sixenate”: Vandalism? When the
Blue Mountains shire, as a means of
checking the wholesale denudation of its
reserves, offered £5O reward for informa-
tion leading to the conviction of people
who removed staghorns, treeferns and
other plants, a racket started amongst
some Sydney private enterprisers. Fifty
pounds was a lot of money in those days ;
going after it, one of a pair of mates
would get busy amongst the ferns while
the other dashed off to find the ranger,
later giving evidence against his pal. The
jail sentence, generally, was not long, and
afterwards the pair would split the re-
ward. The racket was exposed when one
man came out of quod to find that his
mate had blown the entire reward. In
his defence to a charge of murderous
assault, he “blew the gaff.” Thereafter
the police made careful inquiries about
the previous history of informers before
any rewards were paid. Frequently in-
stead of a payment a charge of “con-
spiracy to obtain a reward by fraud”
went up against the schemers.
* * * *
“Pontius Penwiper”: “Sucker-lists” are
an ordinary article of commerce; at a
time when I was interested I found that
there were at least three firms which made
a business of supplying lists of names
and addresses to those who intended to
send out circulars or to sell goods. The
prices were pretty stiff, but no doubt it
was worth the while of anyone intending
to send out, say, 10,000 circulars to have
a list of names supposed to have been
tested rather than pick them haphazardly
from the directory or telephone-book.
The firms were always in th' market for
“I haven't run it in yet —I've got to go slow for the first ten miles."
new lists: ex-clerks of cash-order busi-
nesses who had surreptitiously taken a
tally of the firm’s customers and em-
ployees of associations that depend upon
generous subscribers were most wel-
comed. As an advertising-agency side-
line there is profit in the business ; and
wherever there is a profit there is some-
one to go for it.
Some explanation for the
masses of unclaimed bank-balances that
are transferred every six months to a
Commonwealth Treasury trust account
has been given by the clearing-up of the
estate of an eccentric who left a will pro-
viding for the disposal of at least a couple
of thousand pounds, but had only a small
sum in his banking account when he died.
His son, going carefully through all his
dad’s possessions, got a hunch that a
small key found in a crevice in the old
man’s bed might solve the mystery. It
led, after a lot of trouble and false trails,
to a safe-deposit box held in a name
that was not the deceased’s, though the
handwriting on the signature for the key
was obviously his. In the safe-deposit
were a dozen bank-books, all made out
to different names and all in different
savings-bank branches. Quite a sub-
stantial estate was gathered in after the
necessary affidavits had been made
identifying the various signatures with
the testator.
* * * ♦
“Columba”: To our works came a
union official who, after talks with the
men, approached the manager and stated
that one casual employee must be paid
an extra 3s. a day. The manager, new
to the job, said “In that case we’ll sack
him —we can manage without him.”
“You can’t do that,” spluttered the u. 0.,
and, after expounding on the heinous
nature of such an act, went back to the
man concerned for particulars of his
union membership. “I don’t belong to
any union, and don’t intend to,” said the
most useful man in our village. “I work
here when I’m not carting firewood, or
helping out at the baker’s, or delivering
the papers.” Back to the manager went
the u.o. “That chap has no ticket.
You’ll have to sack him.”
* * * *
“En B.”: The methods of cot-warm-
ing so far advocated by “Binjang” and
“.Estur” (B. 4/10/’5O) are unnecessarily
elaborate. My Uncle George, who was
a scientific bloke, had a much simpler
method. On the sort of night that makes
bed-sheets feel like slightly - flexible
glaciers he’d pour out a generous beaker
of milk. “The body, my boy,” he’d start
off, “derives its heat from the break-
down of fats and carbohydrates. Now,
this milk consists
of solids disr-
solved and sus-
pended in water.
Of the solids,
about a quarter is
pure butter - fat
and four-tenths is
sugar. Crammed
with calories, my
boy. The prob-
lem resolves it-
self into a search
for a means whereby the heat, derived
from the body by the fluid, may be re-
leased into one’s bunk. Now, in this
phial I have an organic substance derived
from the hydrocarbons by the substitu-
tion of a univalent hydroxyl group for a
hydrogen atom. Physiologically it causes,
when taken internally, a rapid release of
heat through the skin. The heat thus
lost may be trapped between the nap and
there serve the useful purpose of pacify-
ing my chilblains.” And with those grace-
ful words he’d pour the rum lavishly
into his milk and totter off bedwards.
Wonderful thing, science!
HIGH RESOLVE.
It’s come and gone,
The race at Flemington ,
Wherein, in sporting parlance, bloodstocK
“clashed”
For human profit.
The only sound
Still faintly heard around . . , ,
Are echoes caused by teeth still being gnashed
By those “run off it.”
Gone with the wind
The hopes so fondly pinned
To harmless mokes still spoken of with quite
Potent invective
Whose only sin
Was that they couldn’t win
Because their bellows turned out to be slight-
ly defective.
The racebooks tossed
Aside with cards that cost
Their buyers wads and had them in a state
So highly nervous,
Pulped by the ton,
At last have now begun
To give, as all might well appreciate,
Some useful service.
The “books,” of course,
With typical remorse .
At having prised the punters from their
dough.
Albeit gently,
Will, as of yore,
Now settling-day is o’er,
Order (this gives the rest of us a glow)
The new Rolls-Bentley.
Most years my yield
From backing half the field
Has been inadequate to shout the kids
A chocolate-malted.
This year I backed
But two; one of them tacked
Slowly along ere treading on some skids.
The other halted.
Next year I’ll be
More cunning still, you’ll see.
I’ll even laugh if for the “books” it proves
The usual skinner:
I’ll take a bet
The horse I back will get
Bowled over as along the straight he moves —
A certain winner!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“B. A. Ker”: A report that wool was
sold for the record price of 310 pence a
pound set me thinking of Old George—
I wonder how he took that. I can
imagine the way his top eyelids would
fly up, and his long, thin face shake slowly
from side to side as, with a little finger
wiggling in his hairy earhole, he deplored:
“It’s ridiculous ; it ain’t natural.” That’s
just the way he went on when he was
told that his neighbor’s clip had averaged
60 pence. He was in the local at the
time, and it took three quick pots to
steady his shocked system. Even then he
was still convinced that it was a “Ridi-
culous price! No wool’s worth that —the
value ain’t there.” The following week
he received his own statement; his wool
had brought 40 pence a pound. Some-
how that news didn’t bring him the grati-
fication that might have been expected.
“Must be a mistake,” he muttered dazedly.
“Must be a mistake. My wool was as
good as Clayton’s; must be a mistake.”
He caught the Sydney express next day
—for the third time in 27 years. Two
days later he was back, a beaming smile
across his freckled face. “A mistake,”
he told the crowd in the bar. “Should
have been sixty pence, same as Clay-
ton’s.” Long Tom regarded him with a
reproachful eye. “I thought you reckoned
sixty pence was a ridiculous price for
wool,” he accused. “I still do,” George
declared heartily. “But it ain’t the money
I object to —it’s the principle.”
“Emjai”: Downey blew into the town
and set up a one-man tailoring business
in the little shop next to Sim’s garage,
but could make little headway against
the competition of the established and
progressive men’s emporium. From his
window he gazed on a hoarding which
told him to go to “Soames for suits.”
Around the town on walls, through the
countryside on fence-rails, even in the
bar where he went for solace, it met him
everywhere: “Soames for suits.” As a
sideline to fill the blank hours and help
the exchequer he decided to run fowls
in the backyard, and as a start bought
six cast-for-age matrons at the mart
and invited Sim’s opinion. “Well,” said
the garageman. “You’ve got some good-
’uns there. This would be a Pootra-
Sussex cross; that one’s a Minorca
Comeback. From this lot you should get
results.” First
day there
were no eggs.
“Don’t let
that worry
you,” said
Sim. “They
always take
a few days
to settle
down.” I n
the wall be-
tween the
garage and
fowlshed there was a hole sufficient to
admit a length of fencing-wire with a
ring bent on the end to hold an egg,
and next morning there were two eggs in
the nest. Next day there were three, then
four, five, six. Downey was jubilant,
hut when the tally reached seven he
rushed excitedly to Sim. “Look! Six
hens, seven eggs! How do they do it?”
“That’s all right,” said Sim. “Birds of
that class could lay morning and night,
and might even win the Burnley com-
petition.” Sim’s wife was returning
home, and his supply of eggs would be
cut short. Next morning Downey, up
bright and early, collected his last eight
eggs, each branded “Soames for suits.”
* * * ♦
“Bass”: Perth police-court proceedings
yvere recently devoted to an argument
over the size of a catch alleged to have
been caught in W.A. waters. Upholding
the best traditions of his profession, the
fisherman claimed that what he had
landed was this big—he illustrated the
size with a tape-rule—but the Fisheries
Department said their tape made it 2in.
shorter. Micrometer measurements will
be complicated by the fact that the subject
of the mattef had been disposed of. I’m
all in favor of regulations, especially
"Howdy, Alf!"
those with an international flavor; but
I’m puzzled to know how a man in a
whalechaser is to form an accurate esti-
mate of a whale’s length before harpoon-
ing it. In this case the whale is alleged
to have been 34ft. lOin. It should have
been 35ft.
♦ * * ♦
“Ngaduri”: Nugget had been off it for
three months —his longest ever —and was
getting pretty short in the grain; so he
knew it would not be much longer before
he started walking to town. However,
we were pretty shorthanded on the job,
and the boss kept him at it to finish the
new line of fence round the crop so that
we could get the ewes on to the other
half of the paddock. Eventually his
temper got so short the boss sent him on
ahead boring the posts while he and I
pulled in and strained up. As a rule
Nugget was pretty good at the job, but it
was the hardest lot of wire I ever pulled
through. Then the boss woke up.
Through every hole that had been bored
you could see the township of Naracoorte,
nine miles away across the Moy Hall
swamps. “I’ll fix this!” commented the
boss, and promptly set Nugget boring
the posts from the opposite direction.
The next strain was back to normal; but
the following one was worse than ever.
“Holy snakes!” yelled the boss, yanking
on the end of the wire. Then he peeped
through one of the holes. Penola was at
a sharper angle to that fence even than
Naracoorte, and there was a bdg fall in
the land, too. Next day the boss gave
him a cheque and drove him into town
with strict injunctions to be back in a
week.
* ♦ # ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”; In a few weeks the
young wild ducklings will be flying, and a
few weeks later some of them will be
providing Christmas dinners for pot-
hunters ; but at the moment they’re still
very dependent on their mothers, whose
sudden whistles sent the three broods
racing for the shelter of the tea-tree
thicket. They reached it, shepherded by
the three adults, as the swamp-hawk
swooped, to be met by a shield of flapping
wings from which he hastily swerved.
Thwarted, he circled to the other side of
the swamp, and hardly had his retreating
shadow gone 25 yards before those duck-
lings, which had fled in obvious terror
a moment earlier, emerged from their
safety-zone and commenced to feed again.
Their mothers joined them, also feeding,
although they must have known that the
big coward would return. He did, and
the tableau was repeated. Again they
emerged immediately the danger passed.
It seems that no amount of teaching can
instil abiding fear into the minds of
wild life. Whereby they die but once,
* * * *
“Bo”: When Harry was told at the
railhead that floods had held up the bi-
weekly mixed, and that it wouldn’t arrive
till the next day he nodded and said
“Thought that might happen. Won’t
bother going back today. I’ll put up at
the pub an’ pick up that fertiliser an’
lime when it gets in tomorrer. Brought a
pigeon in to let the missus know if I
wouldn’t be cornin’ back.” The railway-
man, a pigeon-fancier, walked across with
him to his truck. As Harry took the
pigeon out to attach the message the rail-
wayman stared. “That’s one o’ Morgan’s
birds,” he exclaimed. “That won’t be
any good, Harry, he’ll go straight back to
Morgan’s loft.” “Yair, I know,” returned
Harry casually. “J got him from Morgan
’smornin’ when I dumped one o’ my
pigeons there. When this one gets home
Morgan’ll send the message over by the
bird X left there. Y’ see, me an’ the
missus had a bit of a ‘blue’ yest’d’y an’
we ain’t playin’ speaks.”
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver only knows
one song. It’s about a tin trumpet, and
for more years than I can remember I’ve
listened to it when the old bloke lights
the early-morning fire—that is, when he’s
feeling at peace with the world. When
he isn’t, he lights the fire in silence, or
roars at Blue, His voice has grown
wheezy and cracked, but his “cooee”
still makes the ranges ring like a whiplash.
I heard it as I dropped off the Dead-dog,
so spurred on to overtake him. “Thought
y’ might be cornin’ down about now,” he
greeted wearily. “Where’s y’r mob?”
“Long Gully. Called in at the station,”
I told him. “The old man wants the
bfillocks brought off Feathertop to-
morrow. I told him y’d go.” “Y’ did!
Damn’ good of y’, Sol,” he snapped.
“When I bin combin’ Baldy since day-
light. What’re you doin’?” “Going
back for the Long Gully bunch. They’re
bad to handle. I’ll come and meet you
soon as I get down,” The offer didn’t
appease the old bloke much. He broke
into fresh protests all the way to the hut
and was still grouching as he lit the fire.
“If there’s anythin’ steeper ’n Baldy it’s
them sides o’ Feathertop,” he told the
sticks. “Yair, an” Aw, get out, y’
useless mong. Dunno what you come in
for.” Presently he relapsed into silence,
and, after tucker, dragged himself to bunk.
I woke late next morning and opened my
eyes sleepily. A rattle came from the
fireplace; then, “I’ve got a’ nol’ tin trum-
pet,” came the warble. I grinned into the
horse-rug. The bullocks would start off
Feathertop before night.
* * * *
“Betcha”: I was busy administering
the routine dose that long experience had
taught me was necessary to keep jum-
bucks healthy when the travelling agent
blew in. “Sheep look well,” he remarked,
perching himself on the top rail. “No
doubt about it, some of you blokes are
lucky. The poor cows that have taken
over those blocks down the road are
having a very bad time. Worms one
bloke’s got in his sheep, and, by cripes,
his flock looks terrible. Then the new
bloke on the creek lost forty-seven ewes
the other night, in that cold snap. Just
freshly-shorn, they were.” “Why didn’t
he shed ’em when it came up cold?” I
inquired. “Well, how was he to know
it would turn cold enough to kill sheep?”
defended the traveller. “I tell you that’s
a big loss to a bloke just starting. His
neighbor is losing a few, too, with flies.”
“That the chap that crutched too early?”
“Couldn’t say when they were crutched;
but I reckon it’s a damn shame him
having all this trouble. Cripes, I dunno,”
the agent remarked ruefully. “Often see
it happen like this, don’t you? You old
blokes get off scot-free while the young
’uns that’s just starting and can’t afford
it get a rotten run o’ luck.” “Yair,” I
agreed sympathetically, recalling my own
amateur beginning. “Yair; it’s often that
way.”
* * * *
“Kelms”: I’ve never heard the fox’s
mating-call (B. 11/10/’5O), but I’ve heard
the scream which a vixen utters to scare
intruders away from her den. It’s a
terrible cry, shocking and blood-curdling,
and anyone hearing it for the first time
will either make tracks, hastily and
shakily, or will rush headlong to rescue
the woman who is being slowly and
horribly murdered. I know of only one
worse sound—-the cry of the jackal. The
first time I heard that was late one dark
night in Palestine. The beast was just
outside my tent, and it brought me and
my mates bolt-upright in a flash. A
bomb dropped just outside wouldn’t have
shaken us as much, and we’d have known
how to handle that.
* * # ♦
“E.”: Was walking along the creek-
bank when something in the clear water
of a still, deep hole caught my eye;
pulling up a shirt-sleeve I dived down
and retrieved a hen-egg. There were five
others in the pool, all quite fresh. I
stared all round.
The nearest house
was almost a
quarter of a mile
away—too far for
a straying chook,
even if those birds
hadn’t been, as I
knew they were,
always kept shut
in a yard. It had
me puzzled, till,
cutting thistles near
the creek a few days later, I spotted a
crow alight in the dry gum above the
pool. He was carrying something, and
was mighty awkward about it. Whether
he’d been in a trap and had
lost the end of his beak, or a couple
of toes, I couldn’t make out, but soon
there was a slight splash below, Kelly
looked down inquiringly, and, going
across, so did I. Another hen-egg lay on
the bottom of the pool.
"You should have seen the one that got away.”
THE SWINGING GATE.
I stood upon a swinging gate.
The gown that never fitted moved
In sunlight when the world was great
And hills and fields held flowers I loved;
Was ponderous with learning when
I took dull notes at ten past ten.
I have descended from the gate;
For time came when it would not swing
And color seemed but studied light.
I squared my shoulders in the spring
And stepped again to flowers I lost;
Forswore my poor scholastic ghost.
And now with naught but songs in my head
I walk my fields and hills, and they
Are hope and by them I am fed.
The gown that never fitted me
May show that man some high estate;
But I am glad I swung the gate.
N.s.w.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


Don’t say Gin
• • • say
9
0
o
cAsu
“Eurimburra”: Out to learn all he
could about farming in all its branches,
young Tommy had been chased by
freshly-calved cows, hunted under one
post-and-rail by a Jersey bull, and had
beaten a wild Hereford steer to another
by a whisker. It was only natural there-
fore that at the slightest hint of trouble
Tommy should make for the nearest
fence. He was an interested spectator
when a
nomadic
apiarist left
his hives
amongst the
clover,
casually in-
spected a
few and
drove off.
Three days
later a
cyclone
knocked the
lids off a
dozen and
upended a
couple of supers. Chockful of confidence
and fancying himself as a beekeeper,
Tommy strolled down to rectify matters.
A little later when we rescued him from
under a five-barb about a quarter of a
mile away, Tommy hadn’t a very clear
idea how it all happened, and could
only repeat: “How lucky it was the fence
was so flamin’ handy!”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “I got inter Trangie
once,” Mat said. “Ever bin there? No?
Well, the station’s at the east end, so I
took a walk along the street to the west
IGovskh^
-22*
\ I
fep
|©K#l
S»o Black
"I don't need 'em any more, Missus. I gotta job wid the Cub'mint."
end and had a look at it from there,
Then I walked back to the east end and
looked her over from there. Trangie
ain’t got a north end or a south end, so
I went to the pub in the middle and
leaned on it and looked at Trangie from
there. A little fat bloke comes up an’
asks me how I’m doin’, an’ I tell him not
bad, an’ he asks me if I’m lookin’ for a
job. Well, a man wouldn’t be hangin’
round Trangie unless he was lookin’ for
somethin’, so I get a bit sarcastic an’ I
says, ‘No. But 1 heard they’re goin’ t’
build a railway from here out t’
Dandaloo, an’ I was just wonderin’ what
side of the street they’ll run it on.’ He
gives a jump an’ asks me t’ have a drink,
an’ when we get in the bar an’ I got
a schooner in front o’ me he says t’ hang
on for a bit an’ ducks off. Then he comes
back with about a dozen other blokes
an’ they buy drinks an’ start askin’ me a
lot o’ questions about the railway. It's
a bit of a fix, an’ I’m in a knot till I hear
the Bourke mail whistlin’, so I make an
excuse an’ scarpers t’ the station an’
jumps aboard her. I get out at Narromine
an’ send you that wire tellin’ y’ where
I was, an’ while I’m waitin’ for y’ out
comes the ‘Narromine News’ with a bit
about a railway official bein’ in Trangie
makin’ preliminary inquiries on a new
line t’ Dandaloo. So I get out o’ Narro-
mine quick. That’s why I had to wait
in Peak Hill for y’. It shows y’ how
careful y’ got t’ be about pullin’ blokes’
legs.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Aside from the question
of what the deuce mountain-ducks were
doing in the wheatbelt (B. 8/11/ ’5O), let
me assure those interested that I’ve
watched all sorts of ducks along the
Murray getting their young to ground or
water after hatching. Most of them nest
in hollows. Where the hole is over water
the mother simply marches the brood to
the end of the hollow and pushes them
overboard, whence they flutter down one
by one, land anyhow on the water, right
themselves, immediately swim together
and wait for the old girl. The hole is
always chosen over water or where the
duck expects water to be when hatching
comes. If she miscalculates, she usually
pushes them just the same, and most of
them land without much harm, and
promptly run together to the nearest
cover and hide there. In the night the
mother will lead them to water, and, if
she can’t make it in a night, will hide
them next day if in open country. I’ve
seen ducklings carried by beak —bn both
occasions it was when a goanna was in-
vestigating the tree. If she hasn’t time to
get them out she’ll attack the go. If it’s
a human who alarms her she pulls the old
broken-wing trick to lead him away.
* * * ♦
“Bass”: “K.R.” thinks I’m wasting my
time wondering if flowers or bees
consciously “decided” their relative roles
in nature, because experiment has proved
that “insects and plants can’t reason,”
and that “even reasoning animals can’t
think in terms of their species” (B.
11/10/ ’5O). But could insects and plants
reason at an early stage in their careers.
some millions of years before they fell
into the grip of the stultifying Corn-
munism from which they’ve never
escaped? As for reasoning animals think-
ing in terms of their species, if I decide
that the use of a member, say my small
toe, is unnecessary, and I refrain from
using it it will gradually degenerate, but
will not affect my children’s pedal digits,
If, however, the whole race to which I
belong decided and acted similarly, and
continued doing so for successive genera-
tions, in time the small toe of the entire
race would decrease in size and useful-
ness, and that decrease would be trans-
mittable from one generation to the next.
That happened in the case of tails —if
Darwin’s theory is correct —and in the
case of wings in such birds as the emu.
“K.R.” may argue that here environment,
and not conscious reasoning, is the de-
ciding factor; a point which can be
argued indefinitely, and will be settled
“What do they think this is—the Amateur Hour?"
only when it can be shown to what extent
“mind” and “brain” are synonymous.
♦ * * *
“Salmon Gums”: That luminous glow
which “Loulalo” noticed on the raw meat
(B. 4/10/’5O) was caused by bacteria
and is known as bioluminescence. The
same glow, caused by the same type of
bacteria, may be seen in dead fish. It’s
similar to the light of the firefly or the
glowworm, and in some respects to the
glow often seen in dead tree-stumps,
though that’s caused by fungi. In each
case the luminescence is caused by living
things. My authority defines lumi-
nescence as “cold light,” to produce
which “the molecules of a substance
must be stimulated to emit light by the
reception of some form of energy” ; and
defines the glow of phosphorus when
exposed to air—a totally different thing
from the glow on beef —as chemic-
luminescence, caused by the production
of light-emitting molecules during a
chemical reaction.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Weary of hearing those
who can give directions only by “right
hand,” or “left hand,” or by street-names,
it is refreshing to hear somebody speak
of the north-side of the road, the
southern branch, the s.-.w. corner, and so
on ; but Mum, who has been staying with
us lately, goes even better. We’d been
asked round to Alf’s place for a game of
crib and maybe a glass or two ; the gate
clicked behind us and we stepped on to
the road. There Mum paused and, re-
volving slowly, demanded, “Where’s
Jupiter!” Eventually she faced the east,
and there shone the errant planet,
supreme just now among the evening
stars. “Ah!” she sighed, and, swinging
round, stepped out; confident that we
could navigate our way home again, be
we ever so full.
* * ♦ *
“Gravelsnatcher”; Nobody has ever
figured out whether W.A.’s rabbitproof
fences —No. 1 is by far the longest fence
in the world —have ever paid a dividend in
the matter of rabbit-control. What it
cost to erect and police them would make
even a last-season wool-cheque look sick,
and as enough rabbits get through to
stock the entire State the fences have for
a long time been regarded as a dead loss.
It seems, now, that we’ve been wrong,
and that they’re really a farsighted invest-
ment against inflation. Now one of them,
which was erected across the Murchison
almost to Carnarvon, about 30 years ago,
is being dismantled. The rabbits have
never come within 100 miles of it —a
desert stops them, as the Nullarbor did
until the trans-railway gave them a
corridor—and the netting is practically
undamaged. Having been made in the
days when any commodity, including
labor, had to be good, it’s much better
than new netting on the market now.
So it’s being railed to Perth to relieve
the chronic shortage in the agricultural
areas. When it circulates a bit there’ll
probably be an agitation to have the
entire fence uprooted, in which case
Westralians will have to seek a new term.
The cocky who’s just refused you a feed
will no longer be “the lousiest cow this
side of the rabbitproof fence! ”
* * * *
“S.H.H.”; Old Mick’s poultry-farm
fronted a road that followed the river-
bank, and the approaches to his place
were more or less blind, owing to large
patches of lantana. Opposite, on the
river-bank, was a fine cattle-trimmed
willow, and such of the chooks as hadn’t
business in the paddy’s-lucerne or over-
grown paspalum wandered across the
road to pick and preen in the big tree’s
shade. Mortality in their ranks owing to
road-accidents began to worry Mick. In
an effort to draw motorists’ attention to
their responsibilities in regard to the
feathered pedestrians, he hit on the novel
idea of erecting a gibbet at each
approach, and hanging the defunct
poultry therefrom as a reminder to all
road-hogs. Charlie Pace was one of the
first to spot them.
Charlie was a
menace to all road-
users, being a
“gaper.” He saw
all that went on on
both sides of the
road and very little
of what happened
in the middle, with
the result that Mrs.
Pace sat on the
edge of the seat in
a perpetual state
of the jitter s.
“ Lo o k!” said
Charlie, his eyes
on the swinging
chooks. Mrs. Pace looked, but she didn’t
see what Charlie saw. She screamed as
the car bumped and swerved. “Stop!
Stop!” she wailed. “Oh, Charlie, you’ve
killed him!” White-faced, Charlie
brought the old car to a shuddering stop
and hopped out to look back. On the
road a big bundle of feathers bounced
and banged about in the dust. It was
old Mick’s big game-rooster. As Charlie,
much relieved, walked towards it the bird
rolled on to its hunkers and sat up, ’roo-
fashion. His neck seemed a lot longer
than it should have been, and, waving it
about like a wounded snake, he gave a
couple of horrible “urks” and glared
wildly at the motorist. His hand back
on the car-door, Charlie confronted his
missus. “Whaddy’a want to go and
screech like that for, scarin’ th’ daylights
out of a bloke? A man might easy ’a’
hit someone and killed him.”
ESCAPEES.
Lilies lifting their creamy funnels,
Foxgloves teasing importunate bees,
Snared by nought in their satin tunnels—
Here were these graceful escapees
Far from a man-made fence or garden,
Careless of human care or skill.
Only the trees for watch and warden,
Only the boundaries of the hill.
No one sees the runaway blossoms,
Only the stars at evenfall,
Only the luminous eyes of possums
And owls that heed them never at all;
Only bellbirds in leafy spires
Early o’ mornings ring and ring,
Only the magpies’ morning choirs
If they look from the treetops where they sing.
As in an age beyond our knowing
These wildings went, and 1 seemed to see
Lilies in lost Atlantis blowing,
Foxgloves swaying in Arcady ...
Shall I find a haven so to my liking
In some unguessable hour to b’e
When, every bond of the flesh escaping,
I am likewise an escapee?
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


u
BOARD OF DIRECTORS!
gf Alexander Stewart (Chairman) t Six Lennon Raw*,
8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager! W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman); John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie
Sorshead, K.C.8., K. 8.8., C.M.G., D.S.O.s David Wilson,
.A., LL.B., K.C.f Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; Thomas
B. Hefier.
N.S.W. Managers C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
Safeguard gear Estate
by appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor of your Will.
Advantages: Security Continuity Expert Management Impartiality
Accessibility - Secrecy Continuous Audit Moderate Charges Fidelity to Trust.
Write or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd,
dfs
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,009
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Myer Emporium, Ltd. (Melb.)
( Dividends- —To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total.f serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
’41.. 272,868 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210 ‘
Written off freehold, £20,000 ■
To staff fund, £20,000 ..
12,658 779,683
’42.. 193,525 9 p.c. 71p.c.194,835 —• 778,873
’43.. 189,564 9 „ 74 „ 194,335 774,102
’44.. 190,762 9 „ 7| „ 194,335 770,529-
’45.. 241,230 9 „ 8J „ 211,585 29,645 800,174
’46.. 259,449 9 „ 9 „ 220,211 39,238 839,412
’47.. 274,094 9 „ 9 „ 220,211 53,883 893,295
From tax reserve, £50,000 .. .. 943,295
’48.. 320,320 9 p.c. 10 p.c. 237,460 82,860 1,026,155
’49.. 326,946 9 „ 10 „ 237,460 89,486 1,115,641
'50.. 382,771 9 „ Ilf „ 266,211 116,560 1,232,201
* After deducting goodwill (£250,000).
t Including employees’ shares (6 p.c.).
Important developments have occurred
in the financial structure of this big
retail organisation since the close of
accounts. They are (1) a par issue of
100,000 ss. ords. to executives and
others; (2) increase of nominal capital
from £3 million to £6 million; (3) a one-
for-one bonus-share issue (£1,750,000) to
the ords.; (4) issue for cash of £1,000,000
of 4\ p.c. unsecured notes; (5) writing-
up of the book-value of freeholds from
£1,709,500 to £4,026,362, thus creating a
capital assets reserve of £2,316,862 from
which the bonus-share issue is to be
made ; and (6) disclosure of £1,446,863 of
hidden accumulations which have been
either deducted from assets or included
with liabilities in the published accounts.
Of these inner reserves, £670,000 is a
special provision against a possible drop
in stock-values.
The bonus issue, together with the
small cash issue to the staff, will advance
paid capital to £4,229,950 in 655,450 £1
9 p.c. prefs., 99,500 £1 staff-partnership
shares and 13,900,000 ss. ords. The
partnership shares, which carry a 6 p.c.
div., rank after the prefs., but in front of
the ords. On that lot the pref. and staff
divs. and, say, 8 p.c. to the ords. (equal
to 16 p.c. on ord. capital as it stood
before the gift) would call for £342,181,
or £40,590 less profit than was claimed
by the parent co. last term.
The writing-up of the book-value of
freeholds, disclosure of other inner re-
serves and issue of bonus scrip are book
adjustments which will not affect actual
earning-power of assets one way or the
other. The bonus issue will, of course,
give earnings a more moderate appear-
ance in relation to share capital than
previously, and make the div. worth twice
the declared rate on ord. capital as it
stood before the gift. The inherent
danger in inflating the share capital to
bring it more into line with today’s in-
flated asset values and earnings is that it
might prove out of line in the long-run,
because of possible changes in economic
and other conditions. Still, there is no
cloud in the co.’s sky at the moment.
Expressing his faith in the future, chair-
man Norman Myer says, “Given inter-
national peace, the economic prospect in
Australia would appear to be well
assured.”
Further developments since the close
of accounts have been the purchase of
Morris and Jacobs’ drapery business at
Geelong at an unstated figure, and of the
Lang estate adjoining the co.’s Lonsdale-
street, Melbourne, property for £260,000.
It is intended to erect a fine new modern
store on the Lang property as soon as
circumstances permit, which will carry
Myer’s selling front into Elizabeth-street.
New premises are also to be erected at
Geelong.
The parent’s financial structure reflects
all-round expansion of the undertak-
ing:—
1948. 1949. 1950.
Capital .. ~ £2,479,950 £2,479,950 £2,479,950
Mortgages ~ 355,000 460,000 897,500
Creditors .. .. 1,652,880 1,721,004 2,148,318
Tax reserve .. 456,519 478,438 589.895
Staff fund .. 62,823 62,823 62,823
Final div. ~ 120,750 120,750 143,750
Freeholds, etc. ~ 1,808,900 1,794,500 1,783,500
Plant, etc. .. 388,832 651,354 810,799
Shares .. .. 502,898 532,558 761.351
Stocks . . .. 2,548,498 2,220,780 2,621,942
Debtors .. ~ 886,046 1,224,240 1,571,916
Cash, etc. . . 18,907 15,221 14,929
During the year the co. raised an extra
£437,500 on mortgage and added
£427,314 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors. Together with surplus earn-
ings and provisions, the money went into
stocks (up £401,212), book debts (up
£347,676), shareholdings (up £218,793)
and plant, etc. (up £159,445). Including
the tax reserve and staff fund, and allow-
ing for the final div,, there was 18s. Bd.
of outside money in the business for
every pound belonging to shareholders
when the books closed. The new note-
issue will, of course, ease the position in
this respect.
Bigger turnover (up £2\ million), to
which the mail-order section substantially
contributed, took care of the advance in
costs and narrower gross margins, and
enabled an additional £55,825 of profit
to be shown. That was after allowing
for depreciation (£202,300, up £57,976)
and taxation (£550,000, up £65,000). The
£382,771 of profit claimed was 10.3 p.c.
on shareholders’ tangible funds (capital
and reserves combined) as at July 31. So
the new 4\ p.c. notes, which will be a
charge against earnings before allowing
for taxation, look like being very
helpful to the ords. The notes, to which
shareholders are entitled to preferential
allotment of £250,000, are worth con-
sideration as a fixed-interest-bearing
security of non-trustee status and
moderate currency.
After deducting outside shareholders’
interests, combined net earnings of the
parent and its three principal subsidiaries
—Myer Emporium (S. Aus.), Myer
Woollen Mills (Ballarat) and Economic
Cash Buying Co., which looks after short-
term credit for the parent’s customers —
amounted to £416,352 (up £7677), or 9.8
p.c. on aggregate shareholders’ funds.
The bonus issue surprised the market,
which lengthened its bid for the ss. ords.
from 13s. in August to 225. 6d. last week.
After exercising the rights, the net price
at 225. 6d. is 11s. 3d., at which figure the
return would be 3.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. dis-
tribution. Purchase of notes would add
a little leaven to the return, but the chief
attraction is the possibility of share-
holders being asked to assist at a later
date. The prefs. at 41s. yield 4.4 p.c.
Clyde Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
(AND SUBSIDIARIES)
f Dividends x
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.f
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
Clyde Engineering Co. & Subsidiaries,
1947 . . 39,121 5 6 25,038 123,028
Premiums, new issues, £8033 .. 1
Reserves of new subsids., £13,513 1
Added to intangibles, £10,119 .. f
Unexplained net reduet’s, £1998 J
132,457
1948 . . 58,453 5 6 34,500 156,410
Share premiums, £10,606 .. .. 167,016
Net addition reserves, £18,091 .. 185,107
Net addition intangibles, £6731 .. 178,376
Clyde Industries.
1949 .. 38,693 5 6 54,158 162,911
Added intangibles, £1975 .. .. 160,936
Net reduction reserves, £492 .. 160,444
1950 .. 103,650 5 7 68,036 196,058
f After deducting intangibles, now £37,307.
It used to be the Clyde Engineering
Co., a single unit engaged mainly in
heavy jobbing work, which ran into heavy
weather during the 1930’5. War and post-
war developments altered the picture, and
the business has developed into a holding
co. and group of subsidiaries engaged in
a wide range of manufacturing and mer-
chandising activities, which have bright-
ened the outlook for shareholders by
giving earnings a fillip that the heavy
engineering section has thus far failed to
provide.
The corner was turned in 1943, and
encouraging progress has been made
since. After a long, dry spell the ords.
came into the picture with 5 p.c. p.a. for
the three years to 1946, followed by
6 p.c. p.a. for the next three years, and
then 7 p.c. last term. Paid capital, which
was £300,000 in 1946, had advanced to
£1,236,394 at the close of last accounts.
To lighten the debt and provide for
further expansion, those on the ord.
register are presently to be offered
212,131 new £1 ords. at par, one for three.
The issue will lift paid capital to
£1,448,525 in 300,000 first and a like
number of second prefs., both 5 p.c. cumu-
lative, and 848,525 ords. On that lot
pref. divs. plus 7 p.c. to the ords. would
call for £89,378, or £14,272 less profit
than was earned by the group last term.
The market prices the ords, at 345. 3d.,
equal to 30s. lid. net after exercising
the rights and allowing for brokerage.
The return at 30s. lid. is 4.5 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis, with prospects, subject,
of course, to economic developments and
what happens in connection with costs
and selling-prices. At 20s. 4d. the first
prefs. (issued last term) yield 4.9 p.c. and
the seconds at 18s. 4d. yield 5.5 p.c. Last
term’s profit covered the combined annual
requirements of both lots of prefs. 3.4
times. Including the new issue, net
tangible cover is £ll 4s. 7d, firsts,
£lO 4s. 7d. seconds and 325. Bd. ords.
The parent’s assets consist mainly of
shares in and advances to subsidiaries, a
group of freeholds, rented to the operat-
ing cos., and stocks, debtors’ balances,
etc., associated with merchandising activi-
ties. The subsidiaries include:
Clyde Engineering Co. Pty., which took
over the heavy engineering works at Gran-
ville (N.S.W.). Paul and Gray Pty.
(N.S.W.), Paul and Gray Pty. (Q.), Paul
and Gray Pty. (N.Z.), ship’s chandlers, etc.
Clyde Batteries Pty, (N.S.W.), all types acid
batteries. Fairey Clyde Aviation Co.
(N.S.W. and S.A.), aircraft-repair shops,
etc. John Carruthers and Co. Pty.
(N.S.W.), mechanical, electrical and earth-
moving equipment. McLeod, Bolton and
Co. Pty. (N.S.W.), Trugrade Cotton Waste
Pty. (N.S.W.), Australian Stockinette Pty.
(N.S.W.), makers of cotton-waste, stockin-
ette and other cleaning materials. Green
Point Shipbuilding and Engineering Co.
(N.S.W.), ship-repairers, engineers, etc.
A. C. Willard and Co. (N.S.W.), stainless-
steel, chemical and food-processing plants.
Automatic Transportation Co. (N.S.W.),
distributor of products manufactured under
licence from Automatic Transportation Co.,
U.S.
All units of the group reported bigger
trading last term, and all except Clyde
Engineering contributed to the improve-
ment of £64,957 in net earnings;
Consolidated Figures,
1948. 1949. 1950.
Trading profit .. .. £115,096 £111,956 £200,990
Less Depreciation .. 27,028 44,486 55,190
Tax . . . . 29,615 28,777 42,150
Net profit .. .. 58,453 38,693 103,650
The £103,650 of profit covered pref. re-
quirements and 12.6 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 3.4, 11.3, 10,7 and 8.9 p.c.
back to 1946. So nothing had to be
strained to pay the increased div. Dis-
cerning shareholders will have no quarrel
with a moderate dividend policy until the
prop for capital becomes more substantial.
Biggest profit-earner of the group at the
moment appears to be the Paul and Gray
businesses. The Clyde Co. made a loss
of £15,326 last term as against a loss of
£31,785 (to which the Green Point Co.
also contributed) for the previous term.
The Clyde co.’s loss was the aftermath
of a long industrial dispute in 1949. The
business is now earning profits, which
are expected to receive a substantial lift
when production of diesel-electric locos
presently begins. They are to be turned
out under arrangement with General
Motors Corp. (U.S.), the dollar loan has
opened the way for importation of essen-
tial components, and substantial orders
are on hand from the Commonwealth and
Victorian Governments. When the books
closed all units of the group had orders
on hand aggregating over £6 million. The
recently-announced pound-a-week lift in
the basic-wage will accelerate the costs
spiral; hence the importance of the extent
to which selling-prices can be increased
without affecting turnover.
Combined balance-sheet figures reflect
all-round expansion:
Consolidated Figures.
Paid capital— 1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Pref. .. £150,000 £150,000 £449,800 £600,000
Ordinary . . 450,000 530,328 636,394 636,394
Outside interests - 13,173 18,223 13,933
Overdraft . . 357,385 652,018 756,447 689.392
Creditors .. 306,164 423,406 371,817 561,672
Final div. .. 36,370 25,456
Freeholds, etc. 178,979 244,990 311,357 323,917
Plant .. 262,443 321,529 646,868 709,488
Stocks . . 673,658 965,103 1,002,297 1,084,189
Debtors . . 262,175 362,605 389,078 537,962
Investments .. 10,000 50,000 50,000
Cash, etc. .. 31,072 34,608 27,302 21,599
Intangibles .. 18,482 28,601 35.154 37.307
The year’s improvement in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£417,230) was
£113,127, thanks to the new pref. capital.
When the books closed there was 17s. of
outside money in the business for every
pound belonging to shareholders. The
proposed new share-issue will ease the
position in this respect.
Gordon Edgell & Sons, Ltd. (N.S.W.)
Pref. To Re- Re-
June Profit. Si p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
30, £ £ £ £ &
1943.. 6,130 2469 8i p.c. = 4.626 43,521
1944.. 13,731 3900 9 „ „ 5,400 4,481 47,952
1945.. 11,495 3900 8 „ „ 12,800 42,747
Reduction reserves, £3OO .. •• 42,447
1946.. 27,428 3900 8 p.c. = 12,800 10,728 53,176
Share premiums, £55,200 .. .. 108,375
1947.. 29,855 8900 8 p.c. = 20,150 5,795 114,170
1948.. 36,342 3900 8.1 ~ „ 20,412 12,030 126,200
From inner reserves, £1247 .. .. 127,447
Surplus sale assets, £3688 .. .. 131,135
Goodwill written off, £2384 .. .. 128,751
1949.. 46,052 3900 8 p.c. = 20,160 21,992 150,743
Share premiums, £20,900 .. .. 171,643
1950.. 69,607 3900 8 p.c. = 27,200 38,507 210,150
This well-set-up vegetable-canning and
-preserving business, in which the
public became interested about 10 years
ago, continues to make encouraging
progress. The canneries, which are at
Bathurst and Cowra, treat asparagus,
tomatoes, peas, cauliflowers and beans,
etc., mostly grown on the co.’s own
near-by farms on the river-flats of
the Macquarie and Lachlan. After
defence contracts had run out —they
carried narrow profit - margins and
absorbed 89 p.c. of the 1945 out-
put—an eager civilian market awaited
the co.’s products, and sales and profits
have increased each year since. To help
finance the growth £lBO,OOO of fresh ord.
capital has been got in during the past
four years ; the last £BB,OOO of it, which
also brought in £20,900 net of share
premiums, was gathered early during the
12 months covered by the latest accounts.
Paid capital thus became £400,000 in
60,000 p.c. prefs. and 340,000 ords.,
all of £1 each.
Despite heavy rains and floods, which
damaged vegetable crops, especially dur-
ing the latter half of the term, output for
the year to June 30, 1950, was a record.
And so were sales, which brought in
£1,340,330 (up £187,684), gains from
which more than offset the rise in costs,
leaving net earnings £23,555 stronger at
£69,607. That was after allowing a
generous £45,419 (up £8914) for deprecia-
tion —equal to 15.2 p.c. of the book-value
of freeholds and plant combined at June
30—and £51,500 (up £10,500) for the tax-
collector. The £69,607 was enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 19.3 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 16.7, 12.8, 10.3,
14.7 and 4.7 p.c. back to 1945, when
preparations were being made for the
switch to civilian requirements. The div.
was kept at a moderate 8 p.c., leaving
more to plough back into the business
than was distributed. Including share
premiums, reserves benefited by £59,407,
raising them to £210,150, equal to 12s. 4d.
per ord. share. The board’s cautious
policy augurs well for the co.’s future.
During the year additions were made
to both premises and plant, while two new
farms were bought at Cowra, a small
property at Bathurst and another at


The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
A
sssx
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manutacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
From
Scotland
every
precious
drop
HACK l WMITI
BUCHANAN’S
kk
BLACK&WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distilled and blended in Scotland
By Appointment
to H.M. King George VI
i
m
m
jißi
8620?
.Scotch Whisky Distiller*.
' Junes Buchinan & Co. Led.
JAMES BUCHANAN AND CO. LTD., GLASGOW. SCOTLAND
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt,
%
■
mm.
*r-l
'Ca
3
$
mm
m
«l»*
)OnA
V»CTO*‘^
°f
Slßtt'
£s3*?.
cou' NS
@rd oft
59&
19*
/W*
MJS
pO \^DS
TOP'""'"
Bank of Australasia
Travellers’ Cheques
ENJOY the convenience and safety of Bank of Australasia
Travellers’ Cheques which provide you with ready cash
anywhere and at any time, yet are valueless without your
authority. You can obtain these cheques in denominations
of £l, £2, £5, and £lO and cash them readily at banks,
hotels, business houses, and travel agencies. Don’t run the
risk of loss or theft of money whilst holidaying or
travelling. Enquire about this simple, convenient method
at any branch of the Bank.
Established 1835
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
Branches throughout Australia, New Zealand and in London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
BAI7-I6
I '*
it rvfWi m
5#
wm
Ancestors of
an Industry
W. H. Fox Talbot is universally ac-
knowledged to have been the father of modern
photography. Though he did not take the first
photograph, he invented the Calotype process,
which made it possible for any number of
positives or “prints” to be made from a single
negative.
It is on this process that all modern photography
has been built. Born at Melbury in Dorset in
1800, Fox Talbot was a man with remarkably
wide interests. Though primarily a mathema-
tician, a subject in which he took an honours
degree at Cambridge University in 1821, he was
also a chemist, a botanist and a philologist. He
spoke fluent French, and could read German,
Hebrew, Gaelic, Welsh, Polish, Wendish (an
obscure Slavonic language) and Russian. With
Sir Henry Rawlinson, he was a pioneer trans-
lator of the Assyrian Cuneiform inscriptions. His
mathematical attainments earned him the Fellow-
ship of the Royal Society in 1831, and he repre-
sented the Chippenham Division of Wiltshire in
the Parliament that passed the Reform Bill of
1832. In 1854 he threw open his patents on the
Calotype process, taken out fourteen
years ealier, and thus initiated the
developments which have led from
the daguerreotype to the great
photographic industry of today.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Blayney, The net addition to
freeholds, etc., was £48,797 and
to plant £6825:
1948. 1949. 1950.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 312,000 312,000 400,000
Overdraft .. 273,107 111,518 36,783
Creditors . . 50,548 49,471 100,109
Tax reserve .. 44,725 61,316 57,078
Final divs. .. 14,172 13,920 18,100
Freeholds, etc. 147,116 144,797 193,594
Plant . . .. 117,936 97,013 103,838
Plantations .. 8,152 7,731 6,439
Stocks . . .. 513,871 393,892 468,854
Book debts .. 30,477 55,735 49,576
Cash, etc. .. 1,166 650 619
Goodwill .. 2,384
The growth in stocks (up
£75,462) was mainly on account
of containers, cans, etc. The in-
ventory of finished products was
much the same as that at the
previous balance, and insufficient
to clear the co.’s overflowing
order-book. To help meet the
year’s outlay and clip £24,097
net off the outside debt, the co.
gathered the fresh share capital
and premium money already
referred to. The improvement
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£306,979) was £93,427. There is
nothing to suggest that share-
holders are likely to be asked for
more at an early date.
The market, which likes the
co.’s prospects, prices the ords.
at 455., giving a return of 3.5 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis, or 4.4 p.c.
should the distribution go to
10 p.c. The prefs. at 295. yield
4.5 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£lO 3s. 4d. prefs. and 325. 4d.
ords.
Mount Morgan, Ltd.
Ord.
June, Income. Exes.f Surplus. Div.*
£> £> & &
1945 803,602 751,756 51,846 Nil
1946 868,783 833,109 35,674 Nil
1947 965,037 864,002 101,035 Nil
1948 894,224 847,854 46,270 Nil
20 p.c.
1949 1,173,379 1,044,885 128,494 70,000
80 p.c.
1950 1,784,472 1,183,025 601,447 280,000
* Prefs. received 8 p.c. p.a. ( £16,000)
until 1945, and then 7 p.c. p.a.
(£21,000). (Includes depreciation.
Latest results of this big
Queensland gold-copper pro-
ducer are best to date, and, sub-
ject to the course of costs and
metal prices, the outlook is en-
couraging. Last term’s income
(up £611,093) and surplus (up
£472,953) were inflated by a
windfall profit of £210,000
(which has been tossed into re-
serves) from gold unsold when
the price of the metal rose in
Sept., 1949. Actual surplus from
the year’s operations was
£391,447 (up £262,953), of which
£20,000 was placed to capital re-
demption reserve, £15,750 was
passed to the staff welfare fund
and £301,000 (£91,000 in the
previous year) was distributed as
dividends (7 p.c. to the prefs. and
80 p.c. to the ords.), leaving
£54,697 to carry forward.
Chief factors responsible for
the improvement in the figures
were the higher price for gold,
bigger tonnage of better-grade
ore put through the mills and
improvement in the ratio of
overburden to ore;
Sulphide
Waste Ore , Assay N
June, Discarded, Treated, Gold, Copper,
Tons. Tons. Dwt. p.c.
1948 1,603,461 572,320 2.29 0.56
1949 1,407,990 770,250 2.33 0.54
1950 1,165,074 849,500 2.81 0.58
There was a better ratio of con-
centration and improved re-
coveries in the mills, too, and
the smelter produced the follow-
ing results:
f Metal Content ,
Blister, Copper, Gold, Silver,
Tons. Tons. Oz. Oz.
1949 ~ 3793 3744 62,515 17.235
1950 .. 3614 3570 69,045 14.600
The blister is shipped to Port
Kembla for refining and treat-
ment.
Unit costs increased:
Y Cost Per Ton ■,
1949. 1950.
Mining— £ s. d. £ s. d.
Total material.. 4 4.5 5 4.3
No. 1 mill ore 17 4.8 1 0 1.5
Treatment in mills 6 8.0 7 6.0
Smelter, copper ..35 7 7 39 18 2.0
The bigger throughput and
better price for gold were not
enough to offset the effects of
the rise in both wages and costs
of materials, etc.
Ore reserves at June 25 last
were;
f Assay ~
Gold. Copper,
Tons. Dwt. p.c.
Sulphide ore ..4,830,200 3.97 2.01
Low-grade ore. .2,650,600 1.36 0.50
Last term over 48 p.c. of total
mill-feed came from outside
measured ore reserves.
Most encouraging develop-
ment on the mining side has
been disclosure of an extension
of the ore-body near the old
Sugarloaf mine. There are not
less than 10,000,000 tons of pay-
ore in this extension, which can
be worked by a continuation of
the existing opencut. A vigorous
drilling campaign is in progress,
but more work has to be done
before average values and the
limits of the deposit can be de-
termined. And there are three
other areas beyond the immedi-
ate vicinity of the mine which
are considered worth test-dril-
ling.
To date the pyrite content of
the ore has been dumped with
the residues. These are now
being treated for small quanti-
ties of pyritic concentrates for
sale to fertiliser interests. If the
Government proposal to estab-
lish nitrogenous fertiliser works
in Queensland materialises large
tonnages of pyritic concentrates
will be called for.
The co. is also investigating
production of elemental sulphur
from mine ore. Bulk samples
of ore sent to Britain and
America for treatment have
yielded encouraging results, and
chairman Malcolm Newman
and the smelter superintendent
recently went abroad to study
latest developments in this in-
dustry. If it can be produced
economically there is a ready
market for elemental sulphur,
large quantities of which are
imported. Installation of the
necessary plant, however, will
call for considerable capital out-
lay.
Excluding assets of the capital
redemption fund (£120,109), co.
held current assets totalling
£942,642 against current liabili-
ties of £139,351 when the books
closed.
Not much improvement in
output of metals is expected
during the current term, and the
August lift in the locally-con-
trolled buying-price of electro-
lytic copper from £AIBO to
£AI9S a ton will help offset the
continued rise in costs. London
Sept, average for electrolytic was
£S2O7.
The market for the ords.,
which had dropped to 9s. 9d. in
July, 1949, shot up to 16s. after
the lift in the price of gold, ad-
vanced to 19s, at the end of
1949, and stood at 245. 3d. last
week.


RETREAT FROM
THE HEAT
f * 5
WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE GREAT BARRIER REEF
Only on an island—surrounded by cool blue
water, where refreshing sea-breezes moderate the
sunshine to pleasant, healthful temperatures—
can you completely forget hot-weather discom-
forts. And only at the Royal Hayman Hotel can
you relax in complete ease—take part in active
sports, or just laze and look at spectacular
scenery.
Finest holiday resort south of
the equator.
The Royal Havman offers everything for a per-
fect holiday—charming social rooms . . . Lounge,
Cabaret. Cocktail Bar . . . quiet, airy Sleeping
Lodges .. . terraces and gardens. Marvellous
cuisine. Attentive service. There’s swimming (in
the Pool or from the beach), cruising, fishing,
coral reefs, dancing at night
And right at your door!
Just off the Queensland coast. Royal Hayman is
so easily accessible. Book for your holiday now .
Still a few vacancies before Christmas. Tele*
phone, call or write to
ANSETT TRAVEL SERVICE:
Melbourne, MU6921; Sydney, 8W2921; Adelaide,
Cen. 2514; Brisbane, 82391; Hobart, 7470; Laun-
ceston, 1760; Canberra, F 390; and all recognised
travel agencies.
mmmmrnm
0 f pyorytA/ny
you want
p
*f°
M
0
w
r
IP
$Af
W
r
t
rl
r
w
V
O K*
(f
&
*
<&
You yet TOP Ml(/£ when you fit..
Olympic
TYRES
0T4t.14.59
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Speculative Sharemarket
Australian sharemarkots last
week showed outward signs of
speculative excess. In Sydney,
share turnovers were volumin-
ous, and the Stock Exchange
corridor and brokers’ offices
were thronged with investors
and speculators.
Inflation, high wool prices
and London buying of Aus-
tralian investments under excep-
tionally favorable taxation
conditions, as well as good long-
term industrial prospects, have
all joined forces with an army
of ’speculators to push share-
market quotations to a record
level.
Little regard is being paid at
present to the probable impact
of the £l-a-week basic-wage rise
and the new award covering
female wage-rates. Nor is full
account being taken of the
volume of money that will later
on be withdrawn from the
private-enterprise economy by
the Federal Government in a
variety of taxes. Record taxa-
tion will be levied this year.
Investment yields now are
generally low. Excessive specu-
lation can prove a danger even
in a market such as this. And
the speculator’s greatest menace
is himself.
Bitumen and Oil
There has been a boilover in
the internal affairs of Bitumen
and Oil Refineries, Sydney,
which was formed at the begin-
ning of 1946. At the start
500.000 £1 shares (40 p.c. of
the total) were issued to the
California Texas Oil Co., and
750.000 were offered to the Aus-
tralian public and readily sub-
scribed, The shares issued to
California Texas carried the
right to nominate three mem-
bers out of a board of seven.
All shares carry one vote at
annual meetings, which gave the
American concern a block vote
of 40 p.c.
It was announced at the time
of flotation, apparently with the
consent of all parties, that Mr.
Chifley, then P.M. and Trea-
surer, had insisted on Australian
investors being allotted 60 p.c.
of the capital.
The original crude-oil pur-
chase contract arranged for Cali-
fornia Texas to supply, for 25
years, B. and O. with up to
1,000,000 barrels of oil a year at
the “low” of world prices (a
barrel being 35 imperial gallons).
The oil was to be paid for in
sterling, but could come from
Bahrein Island (Persian Gulf),
California, Saudi Arabia or the
Netherlands Indies, at the seller’s
option. Over and above the cost
of this oil, B. and O. was to pay
the seller a maximum of £20,000
a year when B. and O. profits
exceeded 6 p.c, on capital. Divi-
dends on the vendor’s shares
were outside the scope of the
agreement.
It appears (hat the Australian
majority on the B. and O, board
recently arranged to buy crude
oil (of a different type) from the
Anglo-Iranian Co. at a price (ac-
cording to E. R. Griffin, manag-
ing director) £3 a ton less than
what is being paid to California
Texas. Mr. Griffin added:
The American company’s nominee
directors on our board opposed the
signing of this contract. They want
us to continue buying from California
Texas on their own terms.
As at least 150,000 tons of crude
oil a year will be involved, the
benefit of changing to Anglo-Iranian
will be immense.
Legal action was taken on Oc-
tober 25 by Caltex (U.K.), Ltd.,
a California Texas subsidiary, to
restrain B. and O. from enter-
ing into a contract with Anglo-
Iranian,' but the action was dis-
continued on November 2.
There has been a reply in the
Press from a California Texas
“spokesman” defending the
original oil-supply arrangements
and criticising the B. and O.
management.
In a circular from California
Texas to B. and O. shareholders
it is stated that if '‘Bitumen and
Oil cannot obtain a management
whose policies are, in our
opinion, not detrimental to our
interests, we shall consider dis-
posing of our shares in the com-
pany rather than risk the loss of
our investment,”
A spokesman for the ' U.S.
concern said the real point at
issue was the installation of the
new platform unit for distilla-
tion of crude oil at the Bunne-
rong plant.
His company was not opposed
to the idea of increasing the re-
fining capacity of the plant, but
it did not consider the present
an opportune time for that ex-
pansion or that the financial
position of Bitumen and Oil
warranted it.
Moreover, the technical advisers to
Bitumfcn and Oil recommended
against the installation of the plat-
form unit.
It is a comparatively recent pro-
duction of Universal Oil Products,
and, so far as we know, only one
experimental model is functioning in
the United States.
Yet a majority of the directors
favored the expenditure of a large
amount of money, and mortgaged the
assets of the company, present and
future, for a period of 15 years, to
be able to buy the equipment.
In addition, they gave the lending
company [City Mutual Life] the right
to 500,000 votes, which, according to
normal business practice, is most
unusual.
Contrary to statements which have
been made, engineers of the Universal
Oil Products told the directors that
the platform unit would not produce
aviation spirit on a commercial basis,
but that it would produce motor
spirit.
Bitumen and Oil would have to pay
a royalty of £93,600 in addition to
the capital cost of the plant.
Replying to the California
Texas Co., and mentioning
“steam - roller tactics,” Mr.
Griffin said that the new plant
would produce aviation spirit if
the Government required it. He
added: —•
A contract does exist between my
company and California Texas for
the supply of heavy residual oil suit-
able only for making bitumen.
But there is no contract which
involves us in any legal or moral
obligation to buy crude from them
other than the heavy residual type.
We have no intention of escaping
our obligation in respect of the heavy
residual oil.
Mr. Griffin said that Cali-
fornia Tpxas had admitted it had
withheld certain discounts on
crude oil “to force the Aus-
tralian directors to accept their
directions.” He claimed that
“at least seven large oil cos. in
the United States” had placed
orders with Universal Oil Pro-
ducts for platform units.
On Thursday the California
Texas spokesman was reported
as saying that the £500,000 loan
was arranged with the City
Mutual without the U.S.
nominees being informed, and
that “the debenture issue gave
the right of 500,000 votes to the
City Mutual Life, thus weaken-
ing the voting strength of all
shareholders, whether American
or Australian,” It was pointed
out that the chairman of Bitu-
men and Oil, T. G. Murray,
M.L.C., is also a director of the
City Mutual, though he left the
City Mutual board for a period
while the debenture loan was
being negotiated.
Australian shareholders will
regret the whole unhappy busi-
ness, which has brought about
a fall from 48s. to under 40s. for
the co.’s shares. Their chief
concern, however, must remain
the questions of whether the co.
is buying its oil in the cheapest
market, and whether the new
plant will be efficient and its
products marketable profitably.
The argument between the
two factions, as presented from
day to day in last week’s Press,
has had around it something of
the atmosphere of a game of
poker, or perhaps a touchy
“debate” in the House of Repre-
sentatives.
Edments and Prouds
Basis of the merger between
Edments, Ltd. (head office, Mel-
bourne), and Prouds, Ltd., jewel-
lers, etc., of Sydney:
The holding company is to be titled
“Edments Holdings, Ltd.,” and will
have a nominal capital of £2,500,000
in 8,000,000 ordinary shares of ss.
each and 500,000 preference shares
of 20s. each.
Ordinary-shareholders in Edments
will exchange one ss. stock unit for
two ss. shares in the new company,
and Prouds’ shareholders are to
receive three ss. shares for each 10s.
share at present held by them.
Edments has a paid capital of
£370,071 in 1,270,284 ord. shares
of ss. each and 52,500 £1 prefs.;
capital of Prouds, Ltd., is
£292,290 in 584,580 fully-paid
10s. shares. Edments’ ord. div.
has been 121 p.c. (earnings to
ord. capital, 22,5 p.c,), Prouds’
15 p.c. (earnings to ord. capital,
23.7 p.c.). The new issued capi-
tal of Edments Holdings, Ltd.,
will be £1,073,577 in 4,294,308
ss. ords. (The prefs. in Ed-
ments are not so far involved in
the exchange.)
In relation to disclosed earn-
ing-power, Prouds, by being
paid off in the capital ratio of
11 to 1, gave away most, Ed-
ments’ shareholders getting two
for one. But in the sharemarket
Edments’ shares, three weeks
before the announcement of the
merger, were at a premium of
320 p.c., whilst Prouds’ scrip
commanded a premium of only
170 p.c. After the announce-
ment Edments’ ss. shares settled
at 28s. (up 7s. compared with
three weeks earlier) and Prouds’
(10s.) at 375. (up 10s.).
Edments have a chain of one
or more “gift” (china, glassware,
silverware, etc.) stores in every
capital city. Prouds’ single
Sydney store is on one of the
city’s choicest shopping sites.
If a 10 p.c. div. is paid by the
new holding co. Prouds’ share-
holders will get the same total
div. on their increased holdings.
Edments’ shareholders will get
Is. from their two shares where
previously they got from
one.
Mumzone Products
Present paid capital of Mum-
zone Products, Ltd. (Adelaide),
is £100,000 in 40,000 5 p.c. A
prefs., 17,500 6-8 px. B prefs.,
17,500 ords. and 25,000 A ords.,
all of £1 each. The public is
now being offered another
75,000 A ords. This class of
scrip will participate in divi-
dends from current earnings ac-
cording to date of allotment, but
will not share in distributions
from the tax-free reserve (£8722
at September 30, 1950). The A
ords. otherwise rank equally
with the ords, except as to vot-
ing.
The co. was formed in 1941.
It is in the fruit-processing and
condiment-making business.
The co. was carrying substan-
tial stocks of finished products
(£58,017, cost) and raw
materials, etc. (£79,750, cost) at
September 30. Debtors totalled
£29,657 (including subsidiary,
£13,818). Other more-or-less
liquids aggregated £7014. Fixed
assets, less £18,979 depreciation,
totalled £ 144,960. Outside
liabilities amounted to £166,301.
The present issue of shares aims
to provide more working capital
and add to the plant, including
equipment to produce crystallised
and glace fruits.
Profit for the year to June
30, 1949, before tax, was £7260,
and for 1950 £9860. To pay the
minimum pref. divs. and 6 p.c.
on the ords. and A ords. (when
the present issue is completed
and fully paid) out of current
earnings minimum net profit of
£10,100 a year would be needed.
Future earnings should have the
benefit of new capital, but the
tax factor must be remembered.
Net tangible assets, on valua-
tions as at September 30, were
equal to 28s. 6d. per A ord.
share, allowing for the new
issue.


Meetings.
LAKE VIEW & STAR, LIMITED.
(Incorporated in England )
FINAL DIVIDEND No. 68.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the
Directors have decided to recommend at
the Annual General Meeting of the Com-
pany to be held on the 15th DECEMBER,
1950, payment of a FINAL DIVIDEND
of ONE SHILLING AND SIXPENCE per
share sterling in respect of the year
ended 30th JUNE, 1950, less United
Kingdom Income Tax at NINE SHIL-
LINGS in the £ (EIGHT ifECIMAL
POINT ONE PENCE per share), the net
amount of Dividend being NINE DECIMAL
POINT NINE PENCE per share sterling.
This Dividend makes a total distribu-
tion of TWO SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
per share sterling for the year ended
30th JUNE, 1950.
Subject to confirmation at the Annual
General Meeting, the Dividend will be
paid on 20th DECEMBER, 1950, to all
shareholders registered on the books of
the Company at the close of business
on 30th NOVEMBER, 1950.
The Transfer Books will be closed from
Ist to 4th DECEMBER, 1950, both days
inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of Dividend
will be calculated at the rate of Exchange
ruling on Ist December, 1950.
For LAKE VIEW & STAR, LIMITED,
R. D. MORRISON,
Kalgoorlie, Local Secretary.
7th November, 1950.
Permanent Trustee Company of
New South Wales, Limited
NOTICE OF MEETING.
THE SIXTY-THIRD
ORDINARY’ GENERAL MEETING OF
SHAREHOLDERS
will be held at the Company’s Offices,
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
on Tuesday, 21st November, 1950,
at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS:
To receive the Directors’’ Report and
Balance Sheet to 30th September, 1950.
To declare a dividend.
To elect two Directors. Messrs. Alfred
Edward Bond and Francis William Hixson
retire in accordance with the Articles of
Association, but are eligible and offer
themselves for re-election.
To elect a Director in place of Mr.
Frederick Bowman Fleming (appointed to
fill the vacancy caused by the retirement
of Mr. Cecil Howe Doyle), who offers him-
self for re-election (in terms of Article
81).
To appoint Auditors and fix their re-
muneration. Messrs. R. W. Nelson,
Wheeler & Barton, Chartered Accountants
(Aust.), the retiring Auditors, are eligible
for re-appointment, and offer themselves
accordingly.
To consider any other business of which
due notice shall have been given.
By Order of the Board,
N. L. SHAW, Manager.
Bth November, 1950.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
OF
One ominant
purpose
One purpose underlies the
dealings of the Union Bank with
each customer; to try to make
the relationship advantageous to
both the customer and the Bank.
ih.
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in England )
Branches throughout Australia & New Zealand
and in London
{ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS )
MUMZONE PRODUCTS
LIMITED
Manufacturers of Popular
GARDENER BRAND
Super Quality Food Products
•
CAPITAL EXPANSION
Nominal Capital . . . . . . £250,000
Present Paid-up Capital . , . . £lOO,OOO
NEW ISSUE of 75,000 “A” Ordinary Shares of
£1 each at par
The Directors of the Company are: —George Livingstone
Melville, Blakehurst, N.S.W., Company Director (Chairman);
Raymond Stanmore Turner, Kensington Gardens, S.A., Company
Director (Deputy Chairman); James Harris Hobbs, 0.8. E.,
Payneham, S.A., Company Director; Clive Langdon Bpnython,
Unley Park, S.A., Company Director.
ADDITIONAL CAPITAL REQUIRED FOR;
Financing increased production;
Marketing new products.
THE PROSPECTUS
(of which this advertisement is an abridgment) dated 3rd day of
November, 1950, and filed with the Registrar of Companies,
Adelaide, shows that each £1 Ordinary Share has an asset backing
of £l/8/6.
DIVIDENDS: Dividends at the rate of 6 p.c. per annum have
been paid on the issued ordinary capital of the Company for the
past six years.
Copies of the prospectus and forms of application for shares
can be obtained from the office of the Company, 167 Payneham
Road, St. Peters, S.A.
APPLICATIONS
will be received only on one of the forms of application issued
with the prospectus, and may be made either direct to the
Company or through a member of the Stock Exchange of
Adelaide, Ltd.
The minimum subscription on which the Directors may proceed
to allotment is £25,000. Such amount is required to be provided
in respect of the following matters:
(1) Purchase price of plant and machinery
(2) Estimated brokerage
(3) Working capital
.. £17,025 0 0
625 0 0
.. 7,350 0 0
£25,000 0 0
The requirements of the Companies Act relating to a prospectus
have not been fully complied with in this advertisement.
Application will be made in due course for listing on the Stock
Exchange of Adelaide, Ltd.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
What the average Londoner
;hinks about next year’s Festi-
val of Britain is neither favor-
able nor polite. If thoughts
could kill, the mushroom girders,
glistening towers and convex
pleasure-domes that are to be
seen between Waterloo Station
and the Thames Embankment
would shrivel and evaporate like
sugar-candy under fierce heat.
Passers-by may justly feel in-
dignant at what appears to be
a frivolous diversion of man-
power and building materials.
They would also prefer Batter-
sea Park to retain its own unob-
trusive character and not be-
come infested with fairground
organs, rumbling switchbacks
and catchpenny sideshows ; and
they rightly complain, with
anger but also with impotence,
at the tremendous cost (some
£9,000,000) which the taxpayer
will have to meet.
People are also concerned,
rather less directly, with other
problems, such as where the ex-
pected thousands of visitors will
eat and sleep, how much time
they will waste in traffic hold-
ups and whether, in fact, their
journeys across the seas will
bring them satisfaction and not
disappointment.
The latest information sug-
gests that there need be no
qualms over this last doubt, for
the sufficient reason that the
Festival of Britain will be what
the words imply, and not merely
High Jinks on the South Bank,
For five full months the visitor
to any part of Great Britain will
never be far away from one or
other of the 22 festivals of the
arts.
London’s own contribution is
spread over May and June, with
16 orchestras, 12 choirs, 18
conductors, five seasons of opera
and two of ballet. The 40 West
End theatres promise some-
thing extra, with special value
from the Old Vic, again at home
in Waterloo-road. The artists
alone must number a thousand
or two, with a wealth of talent
sufficient to attract multitudes.
It is earnestly to be hoped
that neither performance nor ap-
preciation will be blunted by
bleary eyes and nodding heads,
for where everybody will sleep
is as yet an unsolved mystery.
Fellows of Parliament
The appointment of Mr. Hugh
Gaitskell as Chancellor of the
Exchequer has been, on the
whole, well received. He is
young, personally well liked and,
as an able economist, has the
qualifications for knowing what
he’s doing, which can hardly be
said of some of his predeces-
sors. Mr. Attlee is not sur-
rounded by so many potential
statesmen of quality, young or
old, that he need have head-
aches over their neglect, but he
has consistently encouraged his
younger men. Sometimes, with
a firmness that he unfortunately
hasn’t extended to the Old
Guard, he has abruptly reduced
them to the ranks. The few who
have made the Ministerial grade
have not been handicapped be-
cause of their political inexperi-
ence or lack of outside follow-
ing.
With his Cabinet colleagues,
Harold Wilson and Patrick
Gordon-Walker, Gaitskell repre-
sents a new type in Parliament
—the university don who has
drifted into politics through the
civil service or kindred war-
time temporary occupation.
These youngish men —and there
are others in junior offices —
threaten to replace the lawyer in
politics. (The present time is
not the happiest for the barrister-
M.P. He is so tied to the divi-
sion-bell that he can’t attend to
his practice.) They also seem
to have ousted the trade-unionist
and other conventional Labor-
ites. The dons may be described
as intellectuals without the use
of inverted commas, as distinct
from the woolly, airy-fairy ones
who plague the fringes of the
Far Left.
What influence they may have
in the balance of power within
the Labor party is as yet inde-
terminate, but the diehards
must certainly have their feel-
ings of envy, frustration and re-
sentment. A positive advantage
to the university men is that,
socially and intellectually, they
have the same background as
the senior civil servants with
whom they are in daily contact.
Politically their influence is
small, except in so far as their
holding office strengthens Mr.
Attlee’s position. Mr. Kenneth
Younger, for instance, has been
deputising for Mr. Bevin and
Mr. Gaitskell for Sir Stafford
Cripps: so that, according to
one line of reasoning, the Prime
Minister has had virtual control
of the Foreign Office and the
Treasury.
In the event of an upheaval
in the Labor party some weighty
branches of that none-too-secure
tree may fall away, but Mr.
Attlee, at the trunk, will be hard
to displace, not least because of
the support received from his
newer shoots.
Guthrie’s Three-ring Circus
Sir Laurence Olivier, now film-
ing in Hollywood, has ensured
the continuance of his bold and
unstereotyped policy in manage-
ment by delegating a free hand
to Tyrone Guthrie, who has
produced his own play, “Top of
the Ladder,” at the St. James’s
theatre.
A short opening scene, not
unlike the Big Top after dark,
with hanging drapery and a giant
ladder tapering out of sight, in-
troduces the characters as they
respond to the paroxysms of
the dying Bertie, successful man
of business and psychotic be-
haviorist. His nurse, a grizzly
old crone, sits at the side of the
stage throughout the play and
silently works with needle and
thread upon a large pattern, oc-
casionally breaking off to com-
ment, sardonically, upon the
action.
Having projected hints with
haphazard profusion and with
wilful disregard of the unities,
the author causes the dying man
to rise and retire behind a
screen and the stage to re-form
itself into three zones or rings.
On the left is the board-room,
with a newfangled switchboard
that looks like an organ-console
set in the cockpit of a Super-
fort ; in the centre is a doctor’s
parlor of a generation ago ; and
on the right is a room by the
river. Each of these three scenes
is dominated by a woman: in
turn, Bertie’s secretary, who
loves him, unrequitedly and at
a near distance ; his possessive
mother, who admonishes and
mollycoddles him with regular
alternation; and his neglected
wife, who coos and dotes over
their child.
John Mills plays the fixated
Bertie, and is never out of sight
or earshot for more than a few
seconds. A virtuoso perform-
ance, this. Within moments he
passes from one ring to another,
changes from middle-aged con-
servatism to infantile tantrums,
from ruthless acquisitiveness to
daydreamy adolescence, and al-
together plays upon the whole
gamut of emotions with the
same fluency as a pianist upon
the keys in a do-or-die concerto.
The influence of ringmaster
Guthrie is no less pervading for
being behind the scenes; in this
Impressionistic whirlwind it is
everywhere, like sand in a desert
storm. His material often seems
thin and styleless, with desultory
attempts at verbal fireworks by
pun and assonance, and his
situations seem conventional,
but only on later reflection. The
production is so high-paced,
breathtaking and inordinately
expert that the immediate reac-
tion is as compelling as love at
first sight—and maybe as quickly
forgotten.
FOR ENGLAND, HOME
AND DUTY.
“Those who have the national interest
it heart will spend their holidays abroad
next year.”— Mr. James Maxwell, general-
manager of Thomas Cook Son, London.
Pack your suitcase, Englishman,
Prepare to go away.
Leave linen in the cupboard
And latchkey on the tray.
See your home’s left tidy, John,
And fit for any guest.
Make a smiling sacrifice
And rally to the test.
You’d stay at home for holidays
And join in all the fun
When Britain’s Festival is held
In nineteen-fifty-one?
That isn’t patriotic, John,
Although it’s your own land.
Have not your selfish tendencies
Got rather out of hand?
Pack your suitcase, Englishman,
Don’t be a social fraud.
Away and earn some dollars
By vanishing abroad!
ENGLAND.
HEHO.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
The stage of St. Kilda Town Hall was
transformed into an English garden,
Royal portraits hung behind the official
table, and massed flags and bunting pro-
vided the Empire motif for the ball held
by the Victoria League in Victoria.
Deputy-president of the league, Lady
Herring, was among the official guests
received by Mrs. W. L. Russell Clarke
and vice-presidents of the committee,
Mesdames Cairns Officer, Rupert Greene
and H. F. Maudsley, Mrs. Russell
Clarke’s gown of pale-orchid French silk
chiffon had a full-pleated skirt; a deep
finely-pleated frill outlined the square-
cut neckline. Lady Herring had white
orchids on her black lace gown. A silver
lame bodice allied with a bouffant black
tulle skirt was the choice of Mrs. Cairns
Officer. Mrs. Maudsley’s black laces
were enhanced by white lace gloves.
Another official guest was Lady Grim-
wade, the bodice of whose gown of duck-
egg blue duchesse satin was encrusted
with jewelled embroidery. A beautiful
cameo brooch and ear-rings set off Mrs.
Guy Bakewell’s black Chantilly laces.
Mrs. Jim Buchanan shimmered in black
satin. Mrs. lan Potter’s gown was a
froth of pale-gold tulle with gold sequins
massed on the strapless bodice. Mrs.
Marchant Penfold was in pale-apricot
taffeta.
For her wedding at the John Knox
Memorial Church, Brighton, Dorothy
June, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Canterbury, of Hughesdale, wore a gown
of white satin cut on classical lines. A
pearl coronet held in place the fingertip
tulle veil, and she carried a bouquet of
white roses. Her sister Lois ’maided for
her, whilst smaller sister Judy Anne was
flower-girl. Both wore frocks of white
broderie Anglaise over pale green taffeta,
and around their heads were garlands of
ivy leaves and Cecil Brunner roses. Posies
of the same flowers were carried. The
bridegroom, lan Norman, son of Mrs.
Norman Jackson and the late Mr. Jackson
of Tusmore, S.A., had John Klose, of
Adelaide, for best man. Reception was
at Birdwood, Brighton.
A strong finisher in the Festivities
race was the sparkling dinner-party given
by Mr. and Mrs. Charles Parsons, of
Sydney, in the Gloucester-room of the
Australia, A pleated gown of black silk
chiffon over taffeta was worn by the
hostess. Her daughter-in-law, Mrs.
Charles Parsons, Jnr., chose black Chan-
tilly lace over white satin, a peaked white
satin collar finished with matching black
lace medallions outlining the off-the-
shoulder bodice. The black laces worn
by Mrs. Fred Dennett afforded high con-
trast for the scarlet gown banded with
gold at the neck, sleeves and hemline
worn by her daughter, Mrs. Sue Cecil.
Lady Snow’s ballerina frock of black
silk organza had a high-winged collar.
Mrs. Alf Fowler’s choice was a scarlet
crepe dinner-gown. Mrs. Millard Hagon
wore dove-grey cloque taffeta, Mrs.
George Hume slim-fitting black crepe,
Mrs. Ken McLean’s black lace was made
over white satin. Mrs. W. S. Cox settled
for a short dinner-gown of burgundy
crepe.
Oaks Day was just right for pretty
silk frocks. Hats were very much in the
picture. Mrs. Ronald Nott’s large natural
straw topped a tailored natural shantung
frock with its sash of coral-pink satin.
Junior-blue allied with white had many
wearers. Mrs. Maurice Nathan draped
a white organdie stole over her frock,
and topped it with a wide junior-blue
straw hat. Florals and the new screen-
printed silks had a day out, and the
charm of the simple pastel-toned linen
suit was well in evidence. There were
many all-white ensembles. Mrs. Gordon
Byron Moore chose one in silk grosgrain.
Black, worn with hats of emerald-green,
tangerine and royal-blue, was popular.
On Oaks Night a buffet-dinner dance
at the hotel was given by the Bill Mac-
Gowans. Hostess Nance MacGowan
wore an eau de Nil satin gown which had
an overskirt and a strapless top. Rhine-
stones and mauve sequins embroidered
the pale-lilac gown worn by Mrs. Leo
Curtis. Mrs. Frank Mulcahy was in
cream satin, Mrs. Dermot Connelly
midnight-blue lace, Mrs. Alex Finlay
dove-grey taffeta and Mrs. Bertie
Hotchkiss powder-blue slipper satin.
The social merry-go-round opened this
week with a buffet-luncheon party given
by Mrs. Grey Staley to welcome Sydney-
siders David and Heather Plant and also
to celebrate the birthday of petite Mrs.
Saul Aarons. The hostess, luckily pick-
ing perfect weather for it, served luncheon
in the garden of her Brighton Beach
home, which overlooks the waters of
Port Phillip Bay. Daughters Betty and
Valerie assisted their mother care for
guests, among whom were Edmund
Samuels, author of “The Highwayman,”
and Carl Randall, who will produce it,
and his wife. Diversity of outfits chosen
by guests was seen in the pretty off-the-
shoulder sun-frock worn by Mrs, Roy den
Honeyman, the beige linen suit worn
by Mrs. Con Curtain, and the tailored
frock of black-and-white checks of Mrs.
Bill McDermott.
Mrs. D. J. S. Mackinnon, of Moora-
mong, Skipton, pictured here, hostessed
a big cocktail-party at Menzies’ on the eve
of Oaks Day. Mrs, Mackinnon received
her guests in a black chiffon gown
splashed with grey and white arum lilies,
with mutation fox-furs added. Her
picture-hat was of black tulle with black
grapes set under the wide brim. Inter-
State guests included the wife of the
American Ambassador, Mrs. Pete
Jarman, who wore chiffon nylon in black
patterned in banana-yellow, with here and
there medallions of Roman charioteers ;
her nylon tulle hat was primula-mauve
trimmed with lily-of-the-valley. Mrs.
Geoffrey Pardey, of Sydney, wore a navy
grosgrain suit and wide straw hat with
a tulle brim. Mrs. Tony Fakbairn, of
Albury, was in gunmetal self-spotted
taffeta and a small hat composed of rose
petals and green leaves. Mrs. Trevor
Clarke’s pearl-grey tulle gown had a
matching fur stole. Mrs. Andrew Mani-
fold’s bottle-green taffeta frock was
ankle-length. A black velvet helmet cap
sewn with pearls went with Mrs.
Geoffrey Smith’s black cocktail-suit.
At the drop of a hat Dick and Thelma
Newton can turn on a party which guests
refuse to leave until dawn breaks. Their
Cup-eve party at the Delphic was a.
joyous affair. A miniature enclosed
lawn was completed with the statue of
horse with rider up wearing the red and
white of the Newton racing colors.
Thelma’s strapless bodiced gown was a
dream of pale citron-yellow faille, the
skirt draped to one side of the hip. The
picture was completed with Christian Dior
pendant and ear-rings. Sydneysider Mrs.
Herbert Douglas’s strapless black gown
was finished with a. spray of pearl and
gold flowers across the bodice and waist
of the skirt. Mrs. Ronald Nott was in
ombre grey satin and chiffon with pleated
panels flowing from a low band of the
satin which finished in front with a large
bow. Mrs. Robert Lane’s ombre chiffons
were in shaded tones of grey and green.
Dove-grey satin was the choice of Mrs.
Colin Norman, the off-the-shoulder
bodice being encrusted with wine and
green rhinestones to form large sham-
rocks. Soft dove-grey chiffon and lace
fashioned the gown worn by Mrs. A.
Colman. Among other noted dresses were
Mrs. Ivor Cardan’s bouffant black tulle,
Mrs. Alan Brockhoff’s floral slim-fitting
and sequin-trimmed ensemble, Mrs. Leo
Curtis’s white guipure laces, the flounced
black tulle worn by Mrs. Sladen Gibson,
the powder-blue slipper-satin setting off
Mrs. Frank Mulcahy’s titian hair, and the
black laces of Mesdames E. Shilliday,
Tim Jones and John Osboldstone.
Among the big post-Cup parties was
that given by Dr, and Mrs. C. Guiney,
of Sydney, at Menzies’. Mrs. Guiney’s
smart black frock was worn with a match-
ing jacket with lapels in dusty pink ; her
wide-brimmed hat was of fine black straw.
There were many Sydney friends, among
them Mrs. Ken Patrick, in junior-navy
suit and white sailor hat trimmed with
tiny birds. Mrs. Len Piastre wore flow-
ing black chiffons with fluted frills out-
lining the strapless bodice. Lady Plow-
man’s teal-blue tailored suit had for com-
pany a dusty-pink straw hat. Mrs. Tom
Bateman’s red-patterned black frock was
worn with a small red rough-straw hat.
With the Trade Commissioner for Pakis-
tan was his wife, in black silver
embroidered sari. Commander and Mrs.
Charles Reed were among Melbourne
guests, she wearing grey suit and small
white crochet straw toque. Mrs. T. Roch-
ford’s black-and-white-patterned jacket
was allied to a plain black skirt. Her
black hat was small. With her black
skirt Mrs. Boris Koski wore a swing-back
jacket of beige corded velvet; her small
hat of black straw was finished with
ospreys.
From Sydney
When Mrs. Florence Taylor welcomed
members at the Australian-American
Association’s Cup party she said “It’s
wonderful to hear so much lovely noise,”
for plenty of noise, provided it’s the buzz
of conversation, is a good gauge of a
successful party. Carrie Moore, who was
star guest, spoke of her travels abroad,
telling how she and her sister Eva attended
a Command Performance in London, and
how she herself, at 67, was the first
Australian to break into television in
America. She played Ma Friend in
“Lights Out.” The terms, she said with a
twinkle, were very satisfactory—“dollars,
you know.” Still very attractive and
vital, Carrie sang the “Merry Widow
Waltz” and “Lily of Laguna,” which
Hilda Mawby struck up as soon as Carrie
had finished speaking. Everyone joined
in and all was merriment. Among those
who collected on Comic Court were
pretty, auburn-haired Mrs. Robert
Walder, who wore tan and white, and
humorous Mrs. Ellen Rainbow, whose
comments on people and events “over a
very long period, my dear,” added very
agreeably to the “lovely noise.”
Present at this Cup party was Mrs.
De Witt Walters, of California. A
teacher of history, she is on her sabbatical
year and intends to study at Sydney Uni-
versity. Mrs. Walters, who has come to
Australia with her husband, thinks that
Australians should make plenty of
personal friends with Americans, for “the
Americans would be only too happy to
look after them when they came to the
States, so that the only dollars needed
would be for the fare,” This sounds
most hospitable and attractive. We’d
better start saving at once.
Distinguished actress Jean Robertson,
who will play the leading role in “The
Madwoman of Chaillot,” opening at the
Independent tonight, will be remembered
as leading lady in “The Outsider” with
Maurice Moscovitch and as Mary of
Scotland at the Independent. She has
also played opposite the late George
Arliss in New York. The wife of Dr.
H. L. Brose, of Mosman, Miss Robertson
is well-known to radio audiences for her
role of Rose Martin in “Martin's
Corner.”
Apparently this is the land of lots-of-
time along the Castlereagh. Outside the
Hotel Australia the other day people
lined Castlereagh-street two deep, obvi-
ously waiting for something, but five out
of six people questioned didn’t know who
they were waiting for. The sixth said he
hoped it was the English cricketers (which
it was).
Years ago there appeared in London
“Punch” a series of articles about one
“Topsy, M.P.,” a gay, lighthearted young
miss whose utterances were nevertheless
full of commonsense. Her creator, one
A. P. Herbert, who drew big crowds to his
lectures last week, had the same engaging
charm, the same lighthanded touch, but
didn’t teach anyone much, except how to
sing the chimes of Big Ben. His lectures
started at 8.15 and ended at 9 p.m., the
second one mainly consisting of remarks
on lantern-slides. As he was sponsored
by the British Council and the Australian
Institute of International Affairs, his audi-
ences were rather distinguished. Earnest
economists and serious psychologists took
time off to hear him, doctors of philo-
sophy came, also the more intellectual
of society leaders and women’s clubs.
They were with him all the time, laugh-
ing and clapping at his every remark. He
had only to say “Those white things on
the river are swans” to get a round of
applause, which is a tribute to his charm,
for it isn’t really a very witty remark.
Your Letter may seem rather crabby, but,
having been an ardent follower of
“A.P.H.” over the years, she had heard
all the stories before and was disappointed
not to hear some new ones from him.
She really did think that Sir Alan should
have put a little more thought and matter
into his lectures, called for questions and
given Australians something new to think
about.
The Country Women’s Association
(Metropolitan Group) will hold its annual
conference at C.E.N.E.F., Castlereagh-
street, on Friday, November 17. Be-
ginning at 9 a.m., the conference will con-
tinue all day. Members and their friends
are invited to attend.
Mrs. Edmund Collingridge has been
elected to the Council of Sancta Sophia
College within the University. She fills
the vacancy caused by the death of Dame
Constance D’Arcy. Mrs. Collingridge (who
was Mary Shepdan) is a graduate in arts
and holds the Diploma of Education. She
is well known in the Hunter’s Hill
district, was the first president of the
Sancta Sophia Ex-students’ Association,
and is the mother of three daughters and
two sons.
Sports Day at Tudor House was as
much fun as the picnic races, with a digni-
fied interval of calm when Archbishop
Mowll dedicated the tablets on the three
school houses in honor of former head-
masters, Inman, Medley and Myer. Only
thing to be regretted was the absence of
the Frensham girls, some of whom had
succumbed to the unglamorous complaint
of mumps, so that the whole school was
in quarantine. Most of the mothers and
daddies called at the gates of Frensham
first for inquiries, wavings and messages.
Bill Wentworth, Junior, won the cup at
the sports, having gained most points over
all events. Film-producer Roley Litch-
field was delighted at son David’s ability
to throw a cricket-ball further than any
other boy in the school. Country folk
were there by the dozen, including the
Allens of Cooma, the three Ashtons en
famille, the Gordons of Forbes, the
Braggs and the Forsters from Coota-
mundra, and Jock Weston, of Wellington.
It’s worrying to think what will happen
to the Gilbert-and-Sullivan melodies
when the copyright expires this month.
The words of the songs will be copy-
right for another 11 years, but that won't
stop the Tin-Pan Alley boys. “The Moon
and I” will probably become “The Moon
and You,” “I Have a Song to Sing-O”
may turn into “I’ve Gotta Thing to Tell
You,” and “For He is an Englishman”
may well become “He’s a Fine
American.” “Pinafore” is showing at the
Empire at present, with dear little Butter-
cup charming the audience once more.
Most G.-and-S. contraltos say that
Buttercup is their favorite role. Could
it be because Buttercup is one of the few
contralto characters with whom someone
is really in love? It must be rather
frustrating for a woman to be always
acting the scorned and rejected, as
Katisha, Dame Carruthers and Lady
Jane.
Doctors say that many children are
suffering from that unpleasant (and un-
pleasant-sounding) disease “scurvy.”
There were eight cases in a month at
one of our leading hospitals, attributable,
it is thought, to the high cost of green
vegetables. It is an indictment on our
times that there should be even one case
of this disease in Australia.
Interesting things at the Australian-
made Leathergoods Exhibition included
cases made of ostrich-skin, very fine-
grained with a regular pattern like small
feathers, most distinguished but madly
expensive, a train-case in the fashionable
Luxan (a beautiful creamy color and for-
tunately washable), a grey snakeskin
evening-bag brushed over with real gold,
plastic bags treated like brocade, croco-
dile, slink (unborn calf), and gold again
(22 carat). There was a whip 42ft. long,
too hard to handle even by Australian
stockmen, but used with teams of huskies
at the South Pole, also a hand-tooled
saddle lined with lambswool and
decorated within an inch of its life, used
for rodeos and also to show what Aus-
tralian leatherworkers can do. Cowhide
in a rich dark red had been fashioned into
featherweight luggage for air travel, the
secret of its lightness being the steel frame
on which it is built.


GP
„ t6 ps «0»H0
STIU * .0— ’
.1... *• K ‘*
In every field one performer outstays all
others in stamina and reliability. In batteries,
it has been Exide—since 1888.
V-
Hxibc
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY., LTD.,
44 BRIDGE ST..
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
The measure of Captain G. G. O.
Gatacre, R.A.N. (setting course this month
for the Imperial Defence College from
Deputy Chiefship of the Naval Staff), is
indicated by the fact that he won pro-
motion from lieut.-commander to com-
mander (possibly the Navy’s most diffi-
cult promotion hurdle) in three years—
usual time is from five to seven years.
Gatacre is one of the two R.A.N. officers
who have represented the mother Navy
at cricket. Another stout effort for an
Australian was his navigating, after a
specialist course in the subject in England,
of battlers Renown and Nelson. And,
again navigating, he brought Rodney’s
38,000 tons and 16in. guns up for their
devastating blast at the wounded Bis-
marck. D.S.C. for that, with a Bar added
for further good work as staff officer
operations in both Shropshire and Aus-
tralia up north. A month before the
surrender he took command of destroyer
Arunta, and had her with the Occupation
Forces in Japan. Built like a bollard ;
launched at Cleveland (Q.), 1907.
Dunedinite Geoffrey Flavell is another
Maorilander who has made his way
up to London Hospital’s senior staff —
appointed consultant thoracic-surgeon
after having been thoracic-surgeon to 10
London hospitals at an age which just
enabled him to scrape through under the
national health scheme. During the
Hitlerite war he commanded surgical
divisions of the R.A.F. in Carthage,
Algiers and Cairo. A versatile medico,
in company with Professor W. B. Ellis
(Edinburgh University) and General
Weiss, commander of the French Air
Force in Algiers, he went on an explor-
ing expedition in the Sahara Desert, and
later followed the route of Doughty’s
first journey into the Hedjaz.
The Third Battalion of Diggers in
Korea gets Major (temporarily ranked
Lt.-colonel) I. B. Ferguson for its new
C. Ferguson has seen plenty of what
he’s now doing. One of those hard-fought
veterans who started in the Middle East
in 1940, he was going just as hard in New
Guinea in 1942, and was still fighting there
in 1945. A nasty stoush in the Owen
Stanleys brought him his M.C. Maori-
land-bom, living in Sydney, he’s 33.
“Wilken”: Cleared Sydney Heads re-
cently in a 24ft. yacht bound for Eng-
land via Cape Horn, Major J. G. Lewis,
D. A one-time R.A.A.F. and
Royal Signal Corps officer, a quiet cove
who does things because of the challenge
involved, Lewis believes he will be the
first to sail through Magellan Straits in
a yacht of Sundowner’s class; if he
makes his English landfall he will be
the first to sail from Sydney to Falmouth
(Eng.) single-handed, non-stop. No fool-
hardy adventurer, but an experienced
blue-water yachtsman who believes in
looking after the essentials and letting
the fancy trimmings of yachting slide,
Lewis has rigged a pressure-cooker with
a rubber tube over the steam-vent, which,
attached to a small copper coil, will give
him an efficient sea-water condenser. He
hopes to return to Sydney via New York
and the Cape—thus circumnavigating the
globe.
Heard his Last Post in Sydney, Colonel
Norman Harold Whitfield, A forceful
chap and hard-hitter, astute with it, he
was in real-estate and suchlike between
wars, and had a fine soldiering record.
In War I he got in at 17, saw service in
New Guinea, on Gallip and in France,
was wounded three times and gassed,
and came out M.C. and Bar, with three
“mentions.” He sarted his soldiering in
the first month of the Kaiser’s scrap, and
went in again in the first month of
Hitler’s, this time going off to Malaya,
D.A.A.G. Bth Division. Back home in
1941, he was made Director of Recruit-
ing, and did a first-rate job. For years
he was captain of the Lakes (Sydney)
Golf Club, and was its immediate past-
president. He was 54 at the end, killed
by a train at a North Shore station.
“E.”; Frank Brennan, dead at 70, first
appeared in the House of Reps in 1911,
having had better luck at a by-election
caused by the death of H. E. Beard than
he had had at the general elections at
Bendigo. A flashing young orator, legally
trained, he soon made his mark with
Batman electors and held the seat until his
retirement as a sick old man last year,
with one interruption, 1931-34, when he
was out of the House largely as the result
of having been Mr. Scullin’s Attorney-
General. He achieved political immor-
tality when he visited Europe with his
leader and—on several noted occasions—
Brennan and Moloney “concurred.” He
made his mark in “Labor” politics mainly
through his part in the anti-conscription
campaign of World War I and was one
of the remnant of 12 members who, on
September 21, 1916, voted for Bill
Burns’s resolution that “the conscription
of human life is inadmissible and
destructive to the best interests of Aus-
tralia.” He became one of “Labor’s”
star campaigners against conscription. He
was an idealist, and “Labor” valued him
as a critic rather than as a constructive
thinker. In his last years at Canberra
he was a sick man, tired of his job. He
told the present writer: “I am just an
old tree waiting to be cut down.” Among
members of both sides in his heyday he
was popular for his wit and respected for
his selflessness.
Scattering DDT on linseed crops in
nor’-western N. S. Wales; planting rice
in the Riverina or grass-seed in rough
grazing country ; dusting crops in Vic-
toria’s western district; dropping essential
trace-elements on land which Nature
neglected—they’re all in the day’s work to
the ex-R.A.A.F. types who fly the 12 De
Havilland Moths for Air-Gricultude, Ltd.,
a concern which has introduced to the
Australian rural scene a service Which has
for years been a commonplace to
American farmers. Managing-director of
the company, Ross Anderson, depicted
here by Prior, was manager of Elliott’s
Rural Laboratories before he took on ihe
job of aerial planter and pest-extermi-
nator. Earlier still he was on the land in
Queensland. Dusting linseed crops were
the first jobs the Moths attempted; ex-
tension into other fields soon followed,
and their activities now cover Queensland,
Victoria and South Australia as well as
the Ma State. When Anderson men-
tioned that organising the various
jobs was rather like planning a
ROSS ANDERSON, Airgriculturist.
bombing - strike Prior looked at him
hard and the two realised that
they had served together for a while
in the Air Operations room in war-time
Moresby,
Born and schooled in Dunedin (M.L.),
Dr. J. L. Wright succeeds Sir Bernard
Dawson, retiring, as professor of obstet-
rics and gynaecology at Otago Medical
School. The new man’s experience takes
in five years with the N.Z.E.F. in the
Middle East and Italy, his present job of
first-assistant in obstetrics and gynaecology
at St. George’s Hospital, London, and six
months as house-surgeon at Melbourne
Women’s Hospital under the late Prof.
Marshall Allan. As well, member of
the Royal College of Gynaecologists,
fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons
(Eng.), and fellow of the Royal Society
of Medicine. All in 35 years.
“M.”: Present writer concedes he hasn’t
much in common with A.P.H. on the liter-
ary side, but there is one point of equality
—he, too, was (as, prominently noted in
Who's Who, was A.P.H.) “petty-officer—
two good-conduct badges.” The insignia of
eight years’ undetected crime. A familiar
sight on Old Father Thames, A.P.H.,
when he was the Senior Burgess of
Oxford University in Westminster, used
to travel to work via his beloved river in
his half-barge, half-yacht, the Water
Witch. His love of water stemmed from
service in the War I Royal Naval
Division, wherein, in due time, he found
himself in the Gallip campaign. He
collected a “mention” there, and went to
France, where he collected a wound. His
friend Beverley Baxter once wrote of
Herbert: “A knightly fellow with the
courage of Sir Nigel Coring, the
melancholy of Don Quixote, and the
robustness of Falstaff.” All qualities were
demonstrated when, a private member
with no party to support him, he
A.P.H., Petty-officer.
succeeded in the herculean task of pre-
paring and getting passed his epochal
Matrimonial Bill, thus winning an
imperishable place in the nation’s gallery
of reformers.
Appointed lecturer in English at Syd-
ney University in place of the late F. W.
W. Rhodes, G. H. Russell, M.A. (N.Z.),
Ph.D. (Cantab.). He comes from a similar
post at Victoria University College,
Wellington (M.L.), As well as teaching
he is editing 15th-century religious writ-
ings for the Manchester University Press.
Calling it a day after 30 years’ solid
service to Queensland University, Dr.
Arthur Boyd, Professor in Mechanical
and Electrical Engineering there. Born
at Walsall (Eng.), 71 years ago, he was
at 22 B.Sc, with first-class honors in
physics and Sydney University’s medal,
and the following year had his engineer-
ing degree, again with the ’Varsity medal.
Shifting to the East Indian railways as
electrical-engineer, he saw War I out as a
lieutenant in the Indian Army, and came
back to Australia to lecture on his
subjects at Queensland University. For
the past two years Dean of the Engineer-
ing Faculty, in Hitler’s war the prof, was
head of the Queensland Army Inventions
Board, as well as being responsible for
the producer-gas research lab. at the
university. And he had a finger in
inaugurating the ’Varsity’s course in
naval architecture, as well as its chair of
mining-engineering. Many top engineer-
ing men throughout the world will re-
member what they owe to Professor
Boyd’s extensive practical knowledge and
experience.
Those lovers of Gilbert’s wit and non-
sense and Sullivan’s lilting measures who
looked behind the monocle of Lieutenant
the Duke of Dunstable and the fierce
little moustache affected by Colonel Fair-
fax as he wooed his Merrymaid would
have had little difficulty in recognising
the lineaments of John Fullard, depicted
JOHN FULLARD, GILSULLIVAN.
here during rehearsal for those roles by
Dubois. Fullard is no stranger to the
principal tenor roles of Gilsullivan—he
was doing that 10 years ago; after
which he notched quite a success
in radio. He has lately returned
from his native England, where
for the past couple of years he has been
doing stage work. A product of the
Royal Academy of Music, to which he
won a scholarship, the tenor made his
debut at Covent Garden in “The Master-
singers,” the Wagnerian opera being put
on by the Sydney Conservatorium Opera
School next Saturday ; and he recalls rue-
fully, reflecting on the present price of
gold, that he “celebrated” the signing of
that contract by suffering the thieving
from his flat of all the medals he’d won.
Perhaps what helps to lend an air of
verisimilitude to Fullard’s treading the
deck of H.M.S. “Pinafore” is that during
the war he was an R.A.N.V.R. lieutenant
in corvettes.
Into the Silence:
In Toowoomba (Q.), at 84, William Binns,
for years prominent in the civic affairs of the
lovely “Simla of Queensland,” one-time presi-
dent of its chamber of commerce and for 16
years manager of the State Wheat Board.
Among the many experts in the centre of
Queensland’s richest wheat-producing area few
knew more of grain and its milling—he managed
the large Dominion Milling Co. for almost
20 years.
At Townsville (Q.), at 73, Percy Willmett,
an identity of the north. Member of the
Queensland contingent which fought in Kruger’s
war, he was, in turn, prospector, kangaroo-
shooter, business director and city administrator.
For 14 of his 25 years as member of the
Townsville Harbor Board he was chairman, and
he was six years an alderman of the city council;
for three of them chairman of the works com-
mittee. A great fighter for Townsville and the
interests of north Queensland in general.
In Brisbane, at 74, F. E. Connah, one-time
Queensland Government Analyst. His death
followed closely on that of J. B. Henderson,
whom he succeeded. An old boy of Brisbane
Grammar, Connah was five years in charge
of laboratories in North Queensland, and had
been assistant analyst for 33 years before
reaching the top post in 1937.
At Duntroon (N.S.W.), at 46, Army chaplain
F. R. Bashford, pridefully remembered by
Diggers of the Bth Division as man and padre
throughout his three years’ incarceration with
them in Malaya. His frank sermon delivered
in Siam on Anzac Day, 1945, brought a stiffen-
ing to thin shoulders among his emaciated
audience —and brought him a bashing from
Jap. guards. Later, the padre saw justice done
through his transcripts of evidence used at Jap.
war-crimes trials. He continued serving with
8.C.0.F. before coming down to Duntroon
early this year.
At 55, in Brisbane, Old Digger Robert Ernest
Ball, A.M.P.’s Queensland manager, lately
manager in Perth. A bowls adept, he had been
vice-president of Weslralia’s Bowling Associa-
tion.
In Dunedin (M.L.), at 54, Spencer Gray
Scoular, city-engineer since 1939. One of his
biggest works was the Waipori hydroelectric
dam at Mahinerangi, which supplies Dunedin’s
power. Going overseas with the Rifle Brigade
in 1916, he saw service in Mesopotamia, and
ended as captain. As well as being president
of the N.Z. Institute of Engineering he was
district vice-president of the N.Z.R.S.A. and
put in valuable service for returned men.


SCHOLASTIC SHOWERS
by NOEL DONNAN
AS the school-inspector drove
along the country lane,
stirring animals, insects
and birds into motion, a
snake crawled out of a drain
and wriggled across the gravel
in front of his car.
Mr. Hyde, assuming the role
of executioner, swung his car so
that the near-wheel passed over
the top of the snake. Then he
looked back to see what had
happened.
The snake was still going, pink
stuff hanging out of its split
belly. Thoroughly excited now,
Mr. Hyde sooled his car on to
it again.
By the time he could see the
effect of this second assault the
snake was cart-wheeling on the
road biting itself. What a hid-
ing it was giving itself. Again
and again its fangs were buried
deep in its own tortured body ;
again and again it suicided in
front of his eyes.
Mr. Hyde took his chin in
hand. “Interesting thing that.
Ver-r-r-ry interesting. Y’know,
children” Mr. Hyde often
thought, or imagined, that he
was instructing a class when he
was alone on the track —“it ex-
plains why the aborigines would
never eat a snake unless they first
knew how it died. No, never! ”
The imaginary children being
apparently so deeply immersed
in thought after receiving this
piece of information that they
failed to answer, Mr. Hyde took
a book out of his briefcase
marked K 6: Nature-study Ex-
periences, drew his Parker and
recorded the incident.
The inspector kept dozens of
these little notebooks stocked
with anecdotes. He used them
to impress the children he in-
spected, had them methodically
classified under such headings
as Action, Death, Description.
All very interesting, “An anec-
dote for every occasion” was
the aim. He found them also
handy for regaling distinguished
confreres outside Education
Board meetings in the city. It
was for ever “When I was up in
G0bb0.... ” or “I was crossing
the Black Sod Plains and ”
After he had made the entry
on the snake Mr. Hyde turned to
face his class. “Experiences
such as this one, children, help
us to modify our ideas.” Mr.
Hyde was fond of “modify”; a
good public servant, he disliked
“change.”
THE two-teacher school at
Bundarran was ruled by
Mr. Howard Peter, a young man
who was given control there by
virtue of a university degree,
not any thoroughgoing success
or experience in the teaching
profession. A long-haired in-
tellectual, wearing a safari-
jacket and smoking a pipe, Mr.
Peter was sitting out in the bird-
sanctuary near the school singing
“My Defences Are Down” when
his henchman, Dick, arrived,
“Cop this,” he said,
Dick took a letter from him
which read:
Dear Mr. Peter,
I will inspect your school
Wed., Oct. 13. Please arrange
accommodation for me and
have single and double inspec-
tion-sheets ready.
Yours, etc.,
P. E. Hyde.
“Lord,” he said, “just as well
I got back in time.” Dick had
been away unofficially for
some days. “Where are you
going to board this old codger?”
“Depends on what sort of a
codger he is. If he’s a reason-
able man I might squeeze him
into the pub somewhere. If he’s
a stinker . . . well, Mrs. Regan’s
got some rooms.”
“No, no! ” Gesture of horror.
“Yes, yes! It’ll broaden the
animal’s mind. Give him an in-
sight into the landlady problem.
I won’t care what happens after
that” —lugubriously—“l’ll prob-
ably be leaving the department.”
“But what’ll you do?”
“Oh, trap rabbits . . . travel
. . , the wheat harvest, you
know ... I know where there’s
some of the best pubs in the
State.”
“You’d do better to stay on.
When I’m Director of Education
I’ll give you a bit of pull, you
know.”
Howard smiled cruelly. “You
know what the last inspector
told the department about you?”
“No.”
“Enough to damn your soul —
or your serial number—to per-
dition. Said he dropped in here
one day unexpectedly and saw
you with about six weeks’
growth on; there was an inch
of dust on the door and kids
were everywhere. Said you had
Army boots on and blood all
over your coat. Hardly a direc-
tor’s form, old boy.”
“Did he say all that? What a
dirty thing to say!”
“But is it true?”
“Of course. I was rabbiting
at the time. What else could he
expect if he chose to drop in
unexpectedly? Anyway, you’re
nearly as bad. Look at that”
—Howard looked out towards
the creek. Quick flurries of
white and grey could be seen
against the pale grass. “Hadn’t
you better get those rabbits out
of the school traps? You don’t
want him to see them, do you?”
HOWARD leaned through
the bird - sanctuary and
shouted “Bobbin, come here,
will you?”
A tall boy with the sharp-
featured, thin - chested, pot-
bellied appearance of a
kangaroo hopped through the
doorway of the school,
“Thir?”
“Milk those traps,”
The boy bounded away. “Do
you notice,” queried Howard,
“that all that kid’s people look
like wallabies? I’ll swear a
marsupial married into that
family somewhere back in the
colonial days.”
From where they were sitting
they watched the boy strip the
traps. Five or six traps were
alive altogether. As the boy
approached the first one the
rabbit stopped leaping about
and sat quite still, forgetting the
pain of the steel jaws in his fear
of the man-smell, feigning to be
a part of the dirt and the grass.
There was a sudden, mad flurry
as the beast realised its ruse
was useless: wild strokes with
the paws that left red lines on
the boy’s arms; and then the
boy with the kangaroo’s face
pulled its ears and head back
and broke its neck. Soon he re-
turned with a heavy bag.
“There’th a white one, thir.”
“Good work, Bobbin. Would
you like to do some manual
work now?”
The boy’s face brightened.
“Yeth, thir.”
“Well, skin those rabbits.’*
“Thir?”
“Yes, Bobbin.”
“The inthpector’th car ith
cornin’ down the road.”
“Well, don’t stand there! Put
those rabbits in the hideout be-
hind the girls’ lavatory. Then
come back here and try to look
intelligent.”
“Yeth, thir.”
“And wash the blood off your
hands or we’ll skin you, too.”
QUICK to perceive if his
pedagogues had the neces-
sary departmental requirements,
Mr. Hyde soon saw that the
two teachers at Bundarran were
deviates from the norm. There
was an absence of method and
solidity in their work that led
him to suspect they were unsuit-
able in the teaching profession.
Idiosyncrasies in their dress such
as Dick’s American shirt or
Howard’s taste in ties didn’t
help him to revise his opinion.
Undoubtedly there is a most
unhealthy disregard of material
things at the school, wrote Mr.
Hyde in his Teacher’s Report
sheet. The gutterings are filled
with pine-needles and debris, in-
cluding some departmental
material (by heaven, that last bit
would stir someone), and . . ,
Mr. Hyde didn’t say Howard
had tried to prove there were
no bacteria on the pine-needles
and the water came out of the
tap pure. He would like to have
put down that he spent the 11-
o’clock break seeing the gutter-
ings were cleaned out; but he
refrained. Moderation, you
know, moderation. Besides,
Mr. Hyde’s energy, Mr. Hyde
assured himself, was proverbial
in the department.
Only when he saw the garden
at the school that day did the
inspector’s proverbial dynamoes
slump On the very first sight
he leaned down on one of the
sound rails and sighed. Before
him, almost beaten, besieged by
vast seas of weeds, two carna-
tions existed fragilely.
“There’s the miracle of sex,”
said Howard to Dick. “The male
flower and the female flower
battling against hostile environ-
ment, isolated lovers lost in
wild islands . . . eternally unsub-
dued ... In a few weeks . . .
seasons, years . . . this ground
wifi be filled with their children.”
“Perhaps,” said Dick, staring
down as if he doubted their
virility.
Mr. Hyde hadn’t heard them
speakjpg. He stood apart. He
seemed stricken to the heart.
“You’re not gardeners, you’re
not gardeners,” he said sadly.
I N the class-room, though, Mr.
1 Hyde was lively.
“Let me see your roll, regis-
ters, stamp-book and corres-
pondence,” he cried as soon as
he entered. He pored over them
greedily as if they meant some-
thing personal to him, lettres
d'amour. “Ah!” he cried,
stroking vigorously with a red
pencil. “Hah! Hah! ”
Howard felt proud of such
stimulating pieces of work. He
leaned over to see which were
the most inspiring parts, but Mr.
Hyde became aware of the
silence.
“What on earth are you wait-
ing for, Mr. Peter?” he rasped.
“You’re the teacher here, aren’t
you?”
Howard proceeded guiltily
with the lesson. The children
smiled. (Did you hear that,
kids? That was a kick in the
guts for Old Peter, wasn’t it?)
Howard grew timid. He’d
heard Hyde was a tough
hombre, but he hadn’t thought
“Hah!” said Mr, Hyde.
“Hah!” repeated Howard out
of sheer nervousness. The
children tittered and the inspec-
tor’s head rolled up. Was the
fellow trying . . . ? “Let me see
the manual books,” he said. “I
will test their precision.”
The manual books being pro-
duced, Mr. Hyde peered at
them closely microscopically,
Howard put it.
“Why doesn’t. this line pass
through this dot?” he asked a
little boy.
“I don’t know, sir.”
“You should know. Why
doesn’t it?”
The boy squirmed desperately.
“Mr. Peter said it doesn’t matter
a damn whether it passes through
the dot or not,” he said at last.
“Put it on the dot, anyway,”
gritted Mr. Hyde, passing on,
“and use the syllabus lettering.”
“You’re a messy fellow,” said
the inspector to a dark, bright-
eyed boy at the back of the
room. “Do you usually make
purple frames for your de-
signs?”
“Mr. Peter said we shouldn’t
be afraid of color, sir. We are
against conventional ideas in
art. We”
“I see,” said Mr. Hyde, “and
what do you call this perpetra-
tion?”
“It’s a man and a woman in
a bath, sir.”
“And did Mr. Hyde tell you
to draw an immoral picture?”
“Not necessarily immoral,
sir. It’s my own composition.”
“Rub it out!”
“It’s all right, sir, everything’s
all right. These two people are
just married. Look, I’ve got
Just Married printed on the
bath.”
“In the syllabus lettering,
too,” grinned Howard.
AT the end of the day Mr.
_ Hyde gave the masters their
inspection-sheets. They scanned
them briefly and glanced at each
other in desperation. They were
committed. Revenge they’d
have, yes, revenge. Give him a
chance first, though . . .
“It’s ridiculous,” said Dick.
“I won’t sign it.”
“You can please yourself
about that, young man. As I
see it it is a fair evaluation of
your teaching and methods this
year.”
“This thing stinks,” said Dick.
“I’d prefer to resign.”
“That might be arranged.”
“Come, sir,” said Howard
paternally. “Richard is saying
things he’ll later regret.” His
voice purred. “I’m sure a
mature man like you will under-
stand there is no need for hasty
words between us because our
views on education happen to
be dissimilar. Besides, it’s time
to introduce you to your land-
lady, Mrs. Regan. I’m sure
you’d like to freshen up after
your—er —exhausting day,”
They climbed into the car,
and Mr. Hyde drove them away
from the school. The big car
quickly labored over the road;
it went through a paddock, up a
hill and round a bend ; and the
town of Bundarran was in front
of them.
Bundarran looked a wild
town, and it was. It had three
stores, but there were unsavory
characters (or they looked un-
savory) sitting on the verandas
of each one, self-constituted
guardians, as it were, seeming
to glare at one another across
the road with a steady
OLD MAN.
Before the coming of that arrogant and ancient kingdom
something is waiting to be done, something should be said.
The very old man has lost the clues that led
into the country of his mind, its people are all dead.
He stumbles through the days of bright and sorrowful winter.
The stubble of the corn is raked together and burning
with*a sweet smoke that brings a memory to his mind.
He stands on the ploughed earth’s edge where the smoke
lifts on the wind;
red flame on red earth beckons, but his eyes are blind,
and rocketing up the high wind, magpies are singing.
There is something to be said yet, a word that might be
spoken
before the flames blacken and the field is sown again.
Blade and weed will grow over it after the spring rain,
weed and worm will riot in the country of the brain,
but now in' the wind on the bared field a word crouches in
the open.
Catching at the turns of smoke where the breeze wanders
he leans on the fence, the oM old man gone queer,
waiting for the word or his death to come near.
If he can catch either of them, his eyes will suddenly clear—
but the figureless smoke moves on like mist over windows.
Put up the hare, good dog, in a fury of yelling.
Let the red field and the red flame open to watch you run
violent in your intent to the smoky winter sun.
Put up the hare, good dog, catch him before he is gone
the last hare on the place, perhaps, there’s no telling.
But the winter wind brings ice to fill the sky with winter,
and the hare crouches and eludes and the smoke turns aside.
The old man coughs in the eddies, forgetful and red-eyed;
there is no clue to his mind now and all his friends have died.
He must wait for the coming of that arrogant and ancient
kingdom.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HILARY NORMAN DEVEREAUX late
of Darlinghurst N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE
that MARIE PAULINE DEVEREAUX has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1775 of 1950
on the grounds of desertion, without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
23rd January 1951 and obtain a copy of
the Petition free of charge from MESSRS.
HERON ROBERTSON PARKHILL ROFE
& MOFFITT, Solicitors, of 12 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN DONALD late of Kurri Kurri.
—TAKE NOTICE that JOYCE DONALD
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 547
of 1950 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance by the 4th day
of December 1950 at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from S. S. MIT-
CHELL, Solicitor, of Bank Corner, Wick-
ham, Newcastle, or his Sydney Agent,
Mr. J. K. DIXON, Solicitor, of 115 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO OLIVER LUMBY late of Merriwa.—
TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY AELEEN
LUMBY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3743 of 1949 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 10th January
1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from W. J. ENRIGHT &
BANFIELD, Solicitors, II Vincent Street,
Oessnock; or their Agents, TAYLOR
KEARNEY & REED, City Mutual Build-
ing, Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
animosity. The inspector seemed
disconcerted to find the police-
station had been burnt down,
but Dick told him its loss was
easily recompensed in the growth
of trade at the pub.
Mr. Hyde replied that this
was a decline, not an advance,
and Howard did not speak until
they arrived at Mrs. Regan’s
house. Then he seemed to
brighten up. “Here we are, me
bhoys,” he said. “And there’s
the dear old thing waiting for
us.”
FROM the front Mrs. Regan’s
house looked weird. It
smelt, too, with a dank musty
odor, a sort of wet-wood smell
all of its own. Pine-trees, with
crooked backs and foliage cap-
ping them like witches’ hoods,
ran round the house. They cast
long shadows across the ground
and gave the house a curious,
rather sinister appearance. And
yet they protected it from the
westerly winds, and they were
a bulwark without which the
old house would have collapsed
long before, for it had been
built on a steep slope, and all
the supports, especially the taller
ones at the back, had long since
given up the task of remaining
straight, and were now sagging
in all directions or losing their
grip on the main structure.
“Are you sure there isn’t any
available guest-house in the
vicinity?” Mr. Hyde asked sud-
denly.
“Quite,” said Howard. “But
I’m sure this house will be
suited to you, Mr. Hyde. The
landlady is an excellent woman.
Ah, here she comes now. Mr.
Hyde, Mrs. Regan.”
Mr. Hyde tried to look his
best. He turned to the two
teachers, but they were already
half-way to the gate.
“Sorry we can’t stop, Mrs.
Regan. Sure you’ll be comfort-
able, Mr. Hyde. Got to rush
off, you know,”
As Mr. Hyde suffered himself
to be led inside, the dank smell
he had observed before grew
intense. Mixed with it now was
a kind of heat, a musty stuffi-
ness at once so acrid and so
smothering that the inspector
had to fling open a window and
gulp in air. “By Jove, it’s hot in
here,” he said.
The inmate of the house
opened a door, “Arrh, an’
’ere’s yT room, inspactor. Y’ll
be seein’ I’ve been slavin’ me
fingers to the bone on the auld
room for ye.”
Mr, Hyde looked at the scene
of slavery in silence. His eye
travelled mutinously over the
gear. There was a small iron
bed with a yellow pillow, a
variation of the ordinary coun-
try washstand with a useless
colossus of a jug and outsize
basin to match.
On the floor, half-hidden by
the bed, was what looked to be
a crockery pot.
“I don’t like people runnin’
about at night,” said Mrs. Regan
darkly.
The inspector reddened. “1
see you’ve netted-in the win-
dow,” he said hastily.
“An’ that’s to keep the rats
out. Ye’ve no idea how cheeky
those fellows are, inspactor.
Stale the food off your false-
tathe, they would. Oi’ve ’ad no
end o’ trouble.”
Mr. Hyde’s teeth vibrated.
Hygienic place, this, they’d
brought him to. “Could I have
a bath before I get my things?”
he inquired.
“A bath?” Mrs. Regan cried.
“Oh, I see . . . Yes, ye can have
a bath if ye’re set on it. There’s
one o’ thim newfangled showers
in the bathroom.”
THE bathroom was a tomb.
The dank smell here was
overpowering; the bath, a tin
coffin without a corpse. Cob-
webs hung in thick layers in the
corners and over the nozzle of
the shower, and a man who
didn’t know as much nature-
study as Mr. Hyde might at any
time have feared the bite of a
tarantula.
Yet, inside this strange room
the inspector felt a little more
light-hearted. He turned on the
tap near the wall and watched
the water rush out, freed, on to
the floor, Mr. Hyde was be-
ginning to get some sardonic
enjoyment out of this house.
What a description to give the
boys back in the department!
By Jove, he would have to tell
Bunter and Costello about this
woman, though, wouldn’t he?
Slowly he stripped himself of
his gauds: tie, studs, under-
wear, until he stood quite naked
on the floor. Then he stepped
under the shower.
“Ah-h-h-h-h!” Mr. Hyde
screamed. For the dank wood
that had looked so stout, the
boards that had been quietly
rotting for years under the drip
of the tap had splintered under
his feet, and the inspector felt
himself whizzing through space,
out of the darkness of the bath-
room, into the sunlight, on to
the earth beneath the rear end
of the house.
“PNID you get him?” whis-
pered Howard.
Dick nodded, pulling the
camera back into the bushes.
“The big close-up as he flopped,”
he said. “The whole action right
down to the. moles under his
hip.”
“Smooth work,” said Howard.
“And the profile and the rear
job. But we need some wit-
nesses for this.”
“Look,” said Howard, “he’s
doing the forward-lunge exer-
cises.”
It seemed like that. The in-
spector, covering vital points in
his defence, was circling around
practically on all fours under
the house. “What a ghastly
position,” he whispered to him-
self. “What a ghastly position.”
“Look here,” said Dick, “we’ll
have to get witnesses if we’re
going to send it to a paper in
photo-story form. Can’t you
see that heading. ‘lnspector
Loosens-up at Bundarran.’ We
could send it to the ‘lnspectors’
Journal’ or the ‘Education
Gazette.’ ”
“Personally,” said Howard,
“I think it’d be more suitable
to ‘Wild Life.’ ”
“Do you think,” said Dick,
“that the man might be induced
to do the right thing by us?”
“No harm in trying,” Howard
said. “Run up to the pub and
get the team, and hurry back
here. Kick up all the fuss you
can in the hedge. Get Flo and
the girls.”
LONG years of strict adher-
ence to the public-service
ideal had rendered Mr. Hyde
wary of all impulsive actions.
Now, when the urge to flee
wildly and race up the stairs lay
strong upon him, he chose the
course of caution and decided to
stay under the house till it was
{Continued on next page.)
CLYDE INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Chairman’s Address
At the Fifty-Second Annual General Meeting of CLYDE INDUSTRIES LIMITED,
held in the Meeting Room of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia,
6 Wynyard Street, Sydney, the Chairman, Mr. Raymond E. Purves, during the
course of his address to shareholders, said:
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The past year has been one of great importance
to your Company, Clyde Industries Limited. In
addition to the further development of our many
activities, the successful negotiation of a dollar loan
by the Commonwealth Government has made avail-
able the necessary dollar finance to launch our diesel
electric locomotive manufacturing programme in
conjunction with our Associate, the Electro-Motive
Division of General Motors Corporation, U.S.A.
I think we can say that the stage has been
reached in our operation where we can look forward
to a stabilised future for our group of companies.
Before turning to my review of the year’s activities
I would like to say how fortunate we are to have
Mr. T. Malcolm Ritchie join the Board. Mr. Ritchie,
with his wide experience in so many fields, will be
an extremely valuable member of the Directorate.
I am pleased that he is with us to-day, and trust he
will enjoy a long association with the Company.
REVIEW OF ACCOUNTS:
Turning now to the consolidated group profits
for the year ended June 30, 1950, you will have
noticed that, after providing £55,190 for deprecia-
tion (£44,486 in 1949) and £42,150 for taxation
(£28,777 in 1949), the group’s consolidated profit,
after excluding the interest of outside shareholders
of subsidiary companies, amounted to £103,650,
compared with £38,693 for the previous year. This
result is after providing for a loss incurred at the
Clyde Works.
The improved profit for the 1950 year, after
providing for Preference Dividends, represents an
earning rate of 12.5 per cent, on ordinary capital.
Having regard to the fact that our main sub-
sidiary, The Clyde Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd., dis-
closed a loss of £15,326, the year’s results can be
regarded as satisfactory. Shareholders will recall
the long industrial stoppage that we experienced at
the Clyde Works in 1949, the heavy cost of which
was responsible for this adverse trading result.
This subsidiary is now operating on a profitable
basis.
The parent company’s profit of £101,135 for the
1950 year compares with £70,620 for the previous
year. This profit is the result of its own trading
activities and the dividends received from subsidiary
companies.
The year’s profit was sufficient to justify a
recommendation by your Directors of an increased
Ordinary Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per
annum, and, at the same time make a substantial
transfer to General Reserve.
You will have noted from the Directors’ Report
that, after providing for Preference Dividends and
this increased Ordinary Dividend, there remained a
balance of profit of £33,099. This, when added to
the credit balance brought forward on the Appro-
priation Account, increased the balance On this
account to £142,516, from which your Directors
have transferred £50,000 to General Reserve,
increasing it to £150,000. This leaves a balance on
the Profit and Loss Appropriation Account to be
carried forward of £92,516.
During the year an additional 150,000 £1 5 per
cent, cumulative First Preference Shares were issued
at par. As advised in the Directors’ Report, it is
the Directors’ intention to offer further Ordinary
shares at par to present Ordinary shareholders in
the ratio of one share for every three shares held.
Details of this Ordinary share issue will be
circularised to shareholders at an early date.
ENGINEERING:
Our engineering activities are covered by the
following subsidiaries: —
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING CO. PTY. LTD.
GREEN POINT SHIPBUILDING and EN-
GINEERING PTY. LTD.
A. C. WILLARD and CO. PTY. LTD.
JOHN CARRUTHERS and CO. PTY. LTD.
Operating conditions during the year have been
difficult, largely due to the shortages of skilled
labour and essential raw materials.
In order to alleviate the effect of these shortages,
more modern plant has been installed and steps
have been taken to secure substantial supplies of
overseas steel. In addition, I am pleased to say, there
has been an improvement in efficiency generally,
which reflects credit on the untiring efforts of
Management operating under adverse conditions.
During the year there was a substantial increase
in the demand for our engineering products, and, at
the close of the period under review, orders on
hand exceeded £6,000,000 in value.
Considerable progress has been made in
employee-employer relationship. Although the
building of goodwill and mutual confidence is a
gradual and continuing process, I think I may
confidently say that our efforts in this regard have
made worthwhile progress.
MANUFACTURING UNDER LICENCE:
At the present time we are either manufacturing,
or planning to do so, several products under licence
from well-known overseas principals.
The AUTOMATIC project mentioned in my last
year’s address is now well under way, producing
both “TRANSPORTER” and “TRANSTACKER”
units, which have received a very favourable recep-
tion by industry.
Within the course of the next few weeks we will
have “SKY-LIFT” electric fork-lift truck units
coming off the production line. This will then
complete our initial range of AUTOMATIC
material handling equipment.
It is anticipated that production of ANTHONY
hoists and lift gates will commence early next year.
BATTERY MANUFACTURE:
Production has been seriously hampered by an
acute shortage of lead. Whilst Australia has a
considerable exportable surplus of this commodity,
the differential between the domestic controlled and
world parity prices of this metal has made it
impossible to secure our full requirements.
Unless there is some substantial improvement in
the lead supply position we, in common with other
battery manufacturers, will continue to he unable
to supply Australia’s requirements.
Without increased lead supplies the present need-
less and avoidable importation of batteries will
continue. This is a farcical situation, as these
imported products are mainly manufactured from
lead exported from this country.
TEXTILE COMPANIES;
Our textile interests showed satisfactory results
for the year under review.
Further development took place at the principal
plant, which is located in Melbourne.
In addition, a new plant was opened at Rocklea,
Queensland, and, at the present time, a pilot plant
is being set up in Western Australia.
MERCHANDISING ACTIVITIES:
The merchandising interests of your company
cover a wide field, the principal activities being
conducted by PAUL and GRAY and CLYDE
SALES throughout Australia.
All merchandising activities continue to show
satisfactory results, with a steadily widening range
of products. The present inflationary trend and lack
of continuing regular supplies has resulted in a con-
siderable increase in inventory investment, with the
added problem of increased storage and selling costs.
FAIREY CLYDE AVIATION CO. PTY. LTD.;
Our aviation activities are carried on in conjunc-
tion with the Fairey Aviation Company Limited of
England.
Fairey Clyde, which is the medium of this
partnership, continues to play an important part
in national defence.
ELECTRO-MOTIVE DIVISION;
As you are aware, your company entered into an
agreement with the Electro-Motive Division of
General Motors Corporation to manufacture in
Australia diesel electric locomotives. These loco-
motives are to their proven design which has earnecl
them world leadership. The use of this type of
locomotive has been largely instrumental in restor-
ing to a healthy financial position the railroad com-
panies of U.S.A. In fact, in America and Canada
the steam locomotive is completely outmoded, and
its manufacture has been discontinued.
In view of the financial position of most Aus-
tralian railway systems and the immense distances
involved in this country, the acquisition by your
company of the rights to manufacture these loco-
motives will represent a very real contribution to
our national development.
Although it will be necessary during the early
stages to import a considerable proportion of the
components from the United States, it is planned to
increase progressively local manufacture as quickly
as economic conditions will allow.
During my recent visit to U.S.A. I arranged for
the full and complete technical assistance of
Electro-Motive, and an exchange of personnel has
already commenced.
I should like to record the appreciation of your
Directors to General Motors for the complete
co-operation and wholehearted assistance which they
have extended to us in setting up the local manufac-
ture of these diesel electric locomotives.
G.M. diesel electric locomotives have always
been pre-eminent, which is the result of years of
thorough research and practical experience.
It is interesting to note that General Motors have
produced over 80% of the world’s total production
of diesel electric locomotives. Their present output
has reached the staggering figure of ten (10) loco-
motives per day.
We are at the present time holding orders for
CLYDE-G.M. diesel electric locomotives from the
Commonwealth and Victorian Railways, and further
orders are pending.
As stated in previous reviews, we anticipate that
the establishment of this industry in Australia will
lead to substantial enquiries from overseas railway
systems.
CONCLUSION;
This concludes my review of your Group’s activi-
ties during the past year. Although I have not
referred in detail to some of our interests, share-
holders may be assured that they are being operated
as efficiently as present-day conditions will permit.
At the end of World War II your company was
operating as a single unit engaged mainly in heavy
engineering jobbing work, As such, it was very
susceptible to any effects brought about by adverse
economic or industrial trends.
Since then, it has been expanded into a substantial
group of companies engaged in a wide field of
manufacturing and commercial activity.
The wisdom of this policy has been amply
demonstrated in the Group’s ability to absorb the
heavy costs of the recent unfortunate industrial
stoppage at the Clyde works.
As an indication of this expansion, since 1946 the
paid-up capital has been increased from £300,000 to
£1,236,394, or, £1,448,525 after the proposed new
issue. The annual turnover has increased from
approximately £800,000 to a figure in excess of
£4,000,000. Assets have increased from £774,677
to £2,764,462.
During this period your company has made some
very valuable overseas associations which should
not only prove extremely profitable to the share-
holders, but also ensure the Group keeping pace
with overseas manufacturing methods, technical and
design development.
Your company having now achieved its major
expansion, culminating in the implementation of its
agreement with Electro-Motive Division of General
Motors Corporation, the stage has arrived for a
major reorganisation of management.
It will not be necessary in the future for me to
devote the large amount of time to the affairs of the
company which I have done over the past five (5)
years as Managing Director. I feel I can be shortly
relieved of the responsibility of this office.
At the present time consideration is being given
to this reorganisation and it is my intention to
retire once it has been completed.
I shall, however, continue as a member of your
Board of Directors.
The great expansion which has taken place has been
made possible only by a fine team spirit, in which
all your officers have played an important part.
While it is difficult to single out any one person
for special recognition, I cannot let the occasion
pass without expressing my great appreciation of the
invaluable assistance afforded me by my colleague,
Mr. Allen T. Anderson.
In conclusion, on behalf of my co-directors and
myself, I must pay tribute to the excellent work per-
formed by the executive officers, staff and employees
of your Group of companies during the past year.
I now have much pleasure, ladies and gentlemen, in
formally moving the adoption of the Directors’ Report
and Accounts for the year ending June 30, 1950.


e*PS oFF
TO - •*
THE
OF A GREAT
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
ENTERPRISE
1
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
Proprietors:
THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
and
/iNCLO.-IRANIAN QIL COMPANY LTD,
*o-
SSS
r j!
Si . ' •
il -•' il t
/ii> 11 ’
$»>V, Si
FM
iir
V W
1
I
c
I
take Care O n Ro is so
Precious
"• •: & ! ,v . i i •' -. A *v '>y-
dark. At first he had hopes of
inmrvino nn r, crumH
board S and ’snat c h i n a his
which nn
the bail. Once, indeed he
Hntrhpft t, Emrri
not pull himself up to the floor-
level; he hung there stretched
to the utmost, now immobile,
now a violently kicking nier-p nf
insnectorshinbut ffnallv he
dronned down to rest h! wns
sitting on the turf recovering
his breath when a voice shocked
him to the hones •
“i-iexr? TJrsxri wtu + A'
thinir rMnVp nnrh! a,
y 8 , . ere ‘
With a few quick skips Mr.
Hyde was up so far under the
house that his backbone scraped
against the floorboards. But
he was relieved to see that Mr.
Peter was the voice’s owner.
“Thank the Lord it’s you,” he
said, coming forward. Howard
retreated a pace or two. “Stay
where you are!” he snapped.
“Mr. Hyde! I never expected
this of you!”
“Expected what? I’ve just
slipped through the boards of
that cursed bathroom. Can you
go up and .get my clothes?”
For quite some time Howard
paused before answering. He
sat down on a bench under the
house and took it all in. He
walked over to the hole and ex-
amined it thoughtfully. Then he
came back to the bench and lit
his pipe.
“Looks like it,” he said.
“Looks like what?” asked Mr,
Hyde, amazed.
“Well,” Howard said, “you
mightn’t believe it —no, you
won’t believe it —but to my way
of thinking you’re being
punished.”
“Punished?”
“Yes, For your officiousness,
your unfairness to us this morn-
ing. The way you treated young
Richard was deplorable. I say
nothing about myself. When all’s
said and done, you know, you’ve
got Jo admit you were a bit of
a swine at the school today , . .
a bit of a swine, sir.”
The inspector stiffened. “Then
because you got bad reports—
and deserved them—you’re not
going to help me out of this—
this predicament?”
Howard smiled happily.
“You’re right on the ball,” he
said. “We want you to change
those reports, Mr. Hyde. We
want you to do us justice. Jus-
tice is what we want. Our work
in the school is meritorious, de-
serving of the highest praise. I
hope I’m clear. You under-
stand, what?”
“Perfectly. It’s straightout
blackmail. But you’re ridiculous
if you think you can get away
with it. I’ll get those clothes
myself. Now.”
“I wouldn’t do that,” said
Howard. “There’s a pack of
women up there.”
It was true. Just distinguish-
able at first, faint . . . but, yes,
definite, there was a murmur, a
babble of voices around the
house, and from the middle of
these rose trills of female
laughter.
P)ICK had no trouble in levy-
h-' ing the boys at the pub.
“Fellers, the new inspector’s
fallen through Mrs. Regan’s
floor and he’s running about in
the nude. Come and have a
squiz.”
“You’re not dinkum?”
“Come and have a look.
Fetch the girls, too. He’s price-
less.”
As the crowd moved up the
street a few more women and
children joined in. By the time
they had reached Regan’s
Corner half the town was there,
and all sorts of rumors were
buzzing.
“Extra-keen on nature-study,
this inspector.”
“No!”
“Yes, sir!”
“A school - inspector, too!
You wouldn’t believe it!”
When Mr. Hyde first heard
the babble of voices he squatted
like a frightened hare and looked
about him with wild eyes.
Dick had difficulty, indeed, in
stemming the mob. Those in the
know were all right, but a couple
of strange drunks were unruly.
They broke through the hedge
and peered under the house.
Then some children eager to
make the kill and get the inspec-
tor’s tail raced past the sup-
ports.
“I saw ’im,” shouted one boy.
“Like a white poddy calf, ’e
was.”
“Get home, you kids.”
“Be careful, everyone,” said
Dick to late arrivals. “He may
be dangerous.”
“Blast them! Blast them!”
said Mr. Hyde. “Tell them to
clear out, will you?”
A drunk came staggering to-
ward them. “C’m on, gang,” he
cried raucously. “Fetch the tar
and feathers ; we’ve got ’im! ”
“Get me out of this,” croaked
Mr. Hyde, “and I’ll fix up
those reports.”
‘ ‘ |_| ERE’S the shot,” said
1 t Efoward. “Dick’ll bring
your car around the back. I’ll
go out and lure the whole crowd
round the other side of the house.
When I yell ‘Scram’ run like hell
for the fence. Jump over it and
drive your car down that back
lane. You’ll find your clothes
on the seat.”
It went smoothly—up to a
point. Howard was a long time
getting the crowd assembled.
Mr. Hyde trembled like a gazelle.
To get away . . . that was all
... to drive for hundreds of
miles away from this . . . the
explanations . . . the jibes.
Quickly he slid from one sup-
port to another.
“Scram! ”
One eel-like twist and he was
away, striding towards the fence.
But a stray child saw him.
“He’s escaping, fellers!”
A howl of delight from the
crowd; the joy of the chase.
But Mr. Hyde had covered fifty
yards before they realised they
were diddled. Cat-calls and
cooees. A few children led the
pursuit, reached the fence: a little
after him.
“Cut ’im off, kids!”
As much chance as cutting off
Malcolm Campbell in his hey-
day, a charging rhino, a sprint-
ing giraffe. Settled behind the
wheel, Mr. Hyde unloosed a
stream of profanity. Then, for
a second, he thought his car had
stalled. “Please, God,” he cried
aloud, “please, God, make it
work! ”
A feeling of relief, then of
exultation, filled Mr. Hyde’s
heart as the car got away. He
was free . . . free . . . He aimed
the car straight at the crescent
of kids ; they fled screaming, and
the car, with Mr. Hyde’s white
back crouched over the wheel,
roared through the deserted
town.
A FEW months later Mr.
Hyde was transferred from
the Bundarran inspectorate, and
a genial giant of a man, ironi-
cally named Mr. Little, took
over. He was so impressed—
Hyde had a reputation for being
a tough man —with Mr. Hyde’s
report on the two teachers at
Bundarran, together with their
poise, that he recommended them
as demonstration-teachers; and
they are now both headmasters
of large schools in the city..


Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf, In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced S/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It's good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0.. Brisbane.
Look Younger,
Live Longer
“We are what we eat," is
not a new theory. New facts
based on scientific findings
in the nutritional field sup-
port this belief.
November Reader’s Digest
has an 11-page condensation
from the book by Gayelord
Hauser, internationally
known lecturer on the sub-
ject. Read why the food you
eat affects not only your
body, but your personality—
how to like foods that lead
to health and longevity.
Read and enjoy November
Reader’s Digest to-day. 32
stimulating articles con-
densed from leading maga-
zines, current books. Un-
paralleled reading value at
one shilling and sixpence.
All newsagents and book-
itykUa.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO CECIL FRANCIS ARMSTRONG for-
merly of 7 Kenneth Street Bondi. —TAKE
NOTICE that SYLVIA FRANCES ARM-
STRONG has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 8898 of 1949 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 28rd day of
January 1951 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from RITCHIE
b ARNOLD, Solicitors, 5-7 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUOHAN. Registrar.
a y
WKwm/f
#
r
-,r
'• *
3S
S 3
r
C.
>d
*, i
% < -vv v\
ir*^N/
?
--:
Sfe
/£my&
TOOTH'S
KB.es. ta
K.B. LASER Browed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1838.
SUNDRY SHOWS
"The Rivals."
It is a little too much to ex-
pect any theatrical man to pro-
duce a play, act in it, design the
sets and design the costumes and
do all these things equally well;
and if Robin Love joy, who did
everything for Sydney Metro-
politans’ “The Rivals” except
write it, was disappointing as
Captain Absolute —the moods
and gestures that suit a young
Shakspearian lover don’t suit
the ease, robustness and polished
cynicism of 18th-century comedy
—the sets and costumes were
brilliant and the production,
based on May Hollinworth’s
notes, a delight all the way
through.
For some reason or other —
perhaps simply because round
about the 18th century is the
best period of English comedy
—the Metropolitans have always
scored their biggest successes
with Sheridan, Wycherley and
Congreve, and, though May
Hollinworth was absent (she has
been ill and is recovering), they
certainly continued the tradition
with “The Rivals.”
Until he had seen this produc-
tion the present commentator,
to be frank, had never fully
realised how rich, how gay, how
assured a comedy “The Rivals”
is; how magnificently funny
Mrs. Malaprop can be and how
much high spirits the playwright
had put into the writing of that
part to make her mispronuncia-
tions so amusing without ever
needing to call up a double-
meaning ; how vital a character
is the roaring old Sir Anthony
Absolute, who thinks reading is
the ruination of women; how
good a study in the imbecilities
of jealousy is Faulkland; how
much of Sir Andrew Aguecheek
still lives in Squire Acres ; how
charming are the girls; how
neat a piece of satire on the
fighting Irish is Sir Lucius
O’Trigger.
And if a little theatre can
bring a play to life so gaily as
this, what more can you ask?
Those who did this noble deed
were, principally, Nigel Lovell,
Kevin Ringham, Lionel Bain,
Michael Aron, Richard Meikle,
Jack Hoysted, Gwen Harrison,
Marcia Hathaway, Wanda Her-
bert and Jan Bennet,
"H.M.S. Pinafore. "
With the assistance of his
sisters and his cousins and his
aunts —and a remarkably pul-
chritudinous herd of relatives
they proved—First Sea Lord
Ivan Menzies duly cast up on
the above man-o’-war, now
moored at Sydney Empire for a
fortnight, to liberalise discipline,
castigate skipper Leslie Rands
for using a big, big D and
arrange for him to swap jobs
with A.B. Max Oldaker and give
a reluctant blessing to the union
of that rating with the captain’s
beautiful daughter, whom he had
dared to love.
Sir Joseph Porter told of his
rise to greatness with clarity and
no sense of false modesty;
Helen Roberts’s soprano was a
perfect match for her looks;
Bernard Manning’s Dick Dead-
eye was a first-rate piece of
characterisation and make-up;
and Bosun Richard Walker’s
ginger sideboards bristled with
enthusiasm as he gave a rendi-
tion of “He Was An English-
man” which brought the house
down. Mounting, sets and
dressing were well up to
standard, the sailors sang right
lustily, as sailors should, and the
Maccunn hand waved to good
effect over his combined forces.
"The Chiltern
Hundreds."
Doris Fitton, who has, as well
as “The Madwoman of Chail-
lot” at the Independent Theatre,
two other shows in the city—
“Bonaventure” at the Royal and
“Dark of the Moon” at the
Palace —moved into the Con-
servatorium one night last week
with a presentation of William
Douglas Home’s “The Chiltern
Hundreds,” produced by Edgar
Veitch.
The piece was played mainly
by the Independent’s young
hopefuls, who showed enough
quality to justify their hopes.
Norman Bushman, as the
Earl of Lister, Lord Lieutenant
of the County, a fine old boy
magnificently devoid of pride
and given to such odd habits as
shooting rabbits through his
sitting-room window, turned in
an outstanding performance—a
stretch of acting put together
with studied and painstaking
attention to detail and thoroughly
animated. Alan Harvey, as his
Ludship’s son, an uncertain
young man who loses the Tory
seat to Labor, then stands as a
Labor candidate at a by-election
and loses again, this time to the
Tory candidate in the person of
his Ludship’s butler, also put a
good deal of intelligence into his
portrayal.
Patricia Lithgow, playing a
hustling young American miss
rather intolerant of the young
lordling’s political vacillations,
was required to bring to her role
an air of practical common-
sense, a nice pair of pins and,
of course, an American accent,
all of which she did very well
with the possible exception of
the accent. She has a voice well
down in her throat —which is a
useful acquisition when you can
do the things with it that, say,
Bettina Welch does —but she
needs to bring it to the surface
with a bit more force and con-
trol.
Harold Hinton, as the butler
who can’t bear to see a tra-
ditional Tory seat go to Labor ;
Kevin Cunningham, as the
Labor man elevated to the
Lords; Jacqueline Way, as a
pert little baggage casting temp-
tation left and right; Nancy
Hunt as Lady Lister; and June
Winter as another pleasantly
aristocratic item all contributed
capably and enthusiastically to
the comedy.
Albert Rydge.
Albert Rydge has an attrac-
tive show of landscapes at
Sydney Grosvenor Galleries, all
in the Meldrum manner.
The difficulty with all Mel-
drumite paintings, of course, is
how you are to tell one of the
pupils from another or any of
them from the master. Meldrum
doesn’t believe you should be
able to, because he has found
the perfect style and everybody
ought to practise it; but that
notion is a little too logical to
be possible. Art was never
logical,
Rydge, at any rate, hasn’t
found his way through to a dis-
tinctive variation on the master
as, for example, has Hayward
Veal, whose current show at
David Jones’s Gallery will be
reviewed on this page next
week; but within the Meldrum
formula Rydge certainly paints
both effectively and pleasantly.
The characteristic Meldrumite
merits and limitations show in
the interiors, which look rather
as if they had been painted in
an earthquake, and in the flower-
pieces, which look more like
bright blobs of flame than
flowers; and the method, be-
cause Meldrum sees nature as “a
set of patches” and shadows do
seem to fall in patches, works
best with shade and sunlight in
the bush. “The Bush Track,”
“Bush Road, Pymble,” “The
Spit, Late Afternoon,” “Morn-
ing Light, Hawkesbury,” “Sun-
light Study, Brooklyn” and
“Autumn Light” are all lovely
landscapes, cool, lyrical and
convincing.
After Picasso.
The style of cubism, a bold
experiment long ago in a limited
mannerism, has been so much
borrowed for commercial art —
wax models, fashion designs and
department-store advertising—
that when you see an exhibition
such as Paul Haefliger’s at Syd-
ney Macquarie Galleries, which
looks exactly like a fashionable
hat-shop, it is difficult to re-
member that all this originated
in art and in Picasso.
Even if the Sydney dailies
have been a little too profoundly
moved by Mr. Haefliger’s hat-
shop there is a good deal to be
said for it. By avoiding realism
and going in for thin paint he
has escaped from the turgidity
that characterised his 1948 exhi-
bition ; his colors are bright and
clean, his figures quite prettily
geometrjpal, his mood gay. And
though it cannot come to full ex-
pression in this array of mere
tokens of goodwill, one senses
behind the exhibition a delight
in modern, urbanised life; an
ambition to paint sophistication
in a sophisticated way.
For that matter there is some-
thing to be said for hat-shops.
They also are bright, gay and
modern. But they are not quite
art. And Mr. Haefliger’s paint-
ings of hats, for some strange
reason, remain much more like
hats than like paintings. They
are as bright and as empty.
Probably the heavy struggle
perceptible in his earlier exer-
cises in the manners of other
exemplars more accurately ex-
pressed the deeper levels of his
temperament and the real state
of his talent. The present com-
mentator, to quote T. S. Eliot,
found himself looking at these
wooden canaries and cockatoos,
the tea - tables, the stylised
figures, the hat-stands and the
perky little hats with “an aim-
less smile that hovers in the
air, and vanishes along the level
of the roofs.”
North Shore
Symphony Orchestra.
With its choral society, this
organisation, which operates
under the baton of Alan Bell-
house, included in its end-of-the-
year concert Handel’s “Zadok
the Priest” and Mendelssohn’s
“Hymn of Praise.”
The former, a short work,
found the orchestra, particularly
the strings, in poor form. The
attack was ragged, and too many
players had their heads down
sawing away without even a
glance at the conductor. A few
of the instruments, too, of poor
tone, could stand weeding out.
The choir was much better,
commanding fair tonal quality
and precision, but the tenors are
the weak link.
In the Mendelssohn the orches-
tral standard improved, though
the texture was still too uneven.
The performance was notable for
the ringing tone of the solo
tenor, Ronald Dowd—certainly
an out-of-the-bag effort. The
soprano was Thelma Wilcox,
who sang well with June White-
head the lovely duet “I Waited
for the Lord,” and, later, songs
by Horace Keats, Dulcie Hol-
land and Alfred Hill.
The orchestra dived off the
deep end in the “Magic Flute”
Overture and floundered around
before finding its feet in the
safe and shallow waters of three
minuets.
"Cockpit."
This play about Displaced
Persons by Bridget Boland was
put on by the Coronet Theatre
Group at the Melbourne Reper-
tory Theatre and played by Dis-
placed Persons who are now
New Australians. Apalonia
Sapalis, Judith Storm, Vilma
Joosep, Kevin Toland, Gerald
Hyman, George Mikelaitis,
J. A. Kruse and others achieved
extraordinary realism with the
parts of Polish Jewesses, Yugo-
slav partisans and Chetniks,
French Communists, Russians
and Germans, with all then-
strange muddle of politically-
determined associations and the
loves, prejudices and hates im-
planted in them by their educa-
tors. There were also admirable
performances from Brian Smith,
as Captain Ridley, and Nevil
Thurgood, as Sergeant Barnes,
put in charge of a motley con-
glomeration of D.Ps. herded into
a German provincial theatre in
1945, and given the task by
Ensa of sorting the terrified mob
out into two divisions for dis-
patch to one or other of the
sections into which Germany has
been divided by opposing groups
of politicians.
Captain Ridley finds that
Poles hate Poles more than they
do Russians and Germans,
Russians hate Russians more
than they do Poles, and that the
loathing that a Yugoslav par-
tisan has for a Yugoslav
Chetnik is only exceeded by
the distaste a French Com-
munist feels for a French
collaborator, a distaste which
C Continued on page 25.)


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers o/;—•
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING-—■—INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
THE SERVICE MAN
The Lull Ends.
“Ek Dum”: The lull in Korea
proved to be very much like
Hitler’s lull in 1939-40. Corres-
pondents and others attributed it
to the approaches of U.N.O. to
the Chinese Communist Govern-
ment, which was invited to send
representatives to discuss the
intervention of Chinese troops
in Korea, while General Mac-
Arthur sedulously observed the
rule that he must not bomb
Chinese territory or the bases in
that territory from which Rus-
sian-type aircraft were bombing
his troops.
In plain fact both sides were
merely consolidating. The
Chinese - Korean forces, after
a heavy series of attacks
which had driven the U.N.O.
forces back to the Chongchon
River line and threatened to
break through their front and
penetrate their rear in depth,
needed a breather to reinforce
and regroup for the next move.
General Mac Arthur certainly
needed respite, which allowed
him to introduce new troops
into his force and to restore
broken links between the Eighth
Army and the X Corps.
On November 11 he took the
initiative in a sudden advance,
preceded by a powerful raid with
h.e. and napalm bombs on
Uiju, the main supply town of
the enemy on the Manchurian
border.
The American 24th Division
drove across the Chongchon
River into the environs of Pak-
chon without meeting much op-
position, the North Korean-
Chinese frontal formations being
dug in about five miles further
north. %■
No sooner had the drive begun
to move than the Communists
opened a heavy artillery barrage
at the eastern end of the Chong-
chon line against the South
Koreans, who were forced to
abandon the town of Wonni.
U.N.O.’s War of Words
Next day it was announced
that Chinese Communist repre-
sentatives would leave Peking
by air on November 14 to meet
the Security Council and de-
bate General MacArthur’s re-
port, which characterised
Chinese intervention as “one of
the most offensive acts of inter-
national lawlessness in history.”
But Chou En-lai, the Chinese
Premier, informed the United
Nations that China was unpre-
pared to debate its own inter-
vention but would confine itself
to American intervention in
Korea and aggression against
Formosa, and he added that
General MacArthur’s report was
“one-sided and malicious” and
his actions “illegal.” The
Security Council debate, as
usual, promised from the first
to be futile and of help to the
enemy, who understands no
language which is not spoken by
the force of arms. Never once
since Russia and its satellites
have been admitted to the con-
claves of the civilised world has
persuasion gained anything for
the West or caused the Rus-
sians to deviate by an inch from
their set programmes.
Hard Fighting Begins
On the night of November 11,
the day on which the U.N.O.
advance began from the Chong-
chon, the Communists struck
with great force in positions
which stretched right across the
neck of the peninsula.
On the east coast near Chong-
jin a heavy body of enemy troops
about 30 miles south of Chong-
jin assailed the South Korean
positions and drove the South
Koreans back five miles at the
first blow. In the centre the
South Koreans were pushed out
of Tokchon and the American
advance immobilised by heavy
mortar- and shell-fire.
On the west British and Aus-
tralians were involved, along
with the U.S. 24th Division, in
fierce fighting after a short rest.
This was one of two sectors in
which the Western Allies were
temporarily holding their own
with South Koreans on their left
flank, still in position against
powerful attacks thrown at them
from near Kasan. The other
was the Hamhung sector, near
the east coast, where it was re-
ported that U.S. Marines had
driven northward to within five
miles of the Manchurian border.
On November 13, however, it
was too early to make any esti-
mate of the general position,
since operations were still in
their early stages.
The snow season has set in,
and will now continue for
months, and Western troops will
be operating in a kind of cold
and under winter conditions
outside the experience of a very
large proportion of them.
Long, hard fighting lies ahead
of them.
Australians in Korea.
Mr. Francis, Minister for the
Army, has announced that Aus-
tralian casualties in Korea have
been “high,” though the lists so
far issued give little evidence
of it if casualties are reckoned
on the basis of previous wars.
The Minister said that no
more troops were needed for the
present in Korea since strong
reinforcements were in Japan,
having been sent there with the
battalion which is replenished
with manpower by air every day
or so according to needs.
It has been decided that Major
I. B. Ferguson, M.C., a regular
officer, who has been with the
battalion as second-in-command,
will assume command from
Lieut.-col. F. S. Walsh, who
has been temporarily in
charge since the death of
Lieut.-col. Green. Major Fer-
guson, who will become a
temporary lieutenant-colonel, is a
Maorilander bom in Wellington
and 33 years old. He was com-
missioned in the 2/2 Battalion,
A.1.F., in the Middle East in 1940
and reached field rank in 1945.
He was an original member of
the occupation force in Japan.
He won his M.C. in the Owen
Stanleys campaign and was
several times mentioned in dis-
patches for services in New
Guinea.
Mr. White, Minister for
Air, was more explicit in his
details about the operations of
the R.A.A.F, than Mr. Francis
about the Army. He gave out
the information last week that
the 77th Squadron had made
2000 sorties since the war began,
had fired more than 7000 rockets
and 2,000,000 rounds of half-
inch ammunition. It dropped
nearly 2000 bombs, including
napalms, destroyed 50 tanks and
damaged 474, together with 275
trains and 27 fuel dumps.
It is a lively record for a
single squadron called on for
instant action in the beginning
and operating in the early stages
over great distances against a
foreign shore.
Its losses, all things con-
sidered, were remarkably low —
three pilots killed, including the
gallant Spence, its 0.C., six air-
craft destroyed and 20 damaged.
Recruiting and
"Comforts."
“Ek Dum”; So far the recruit-
ing campaign has been a virtual
failure. Partly this is due to the
atmosphere of illusion created
by the Chifley Government with
the aid of its Communist sup-
porters, partly to the nature of
much of the campaign itself,
largely a silly business full of
froth and nonsense calculated to
annoy strong men.
Partly also it is due to the
angle from which national ser-
vice is being approached—the
angle that men should enlist not
because they are desperately
needed to defend their homes
but because they will thereby
achieve the right to live the life
of Larry, replete with all the
luxuries of a first-class mountain
hotel and bereft of all the in-
conveniences of civil life.
One Sydney evening paper re-
ported last week that “Broad-
meadows and Puckapunyal are
being converted to a standard
that would probably bring a
blush to the cheeks of holiday-
camp-king Billy Butlin.”
No longer (says the writer,
who apparently served on the
Peninsula about 1811) wifi the
soldier “line up for bully-beef,
often in pouring rain, and later
wash his plate in the cold and
greasy soup to which he has
been accustomed.”
Trainees will sleep in two-
room huts, it seems, this being
one of the reasons why it has
been found necessary to delay
the inception of training for
months. It is, seemingly, un-
thinkable that a warrior should,
in 1950, sleep even temporarily
in a dormitory, much less in a
tent like those soft fellows the
Blimps of 1914, who so amuse
the modern armchair critic. Ergo
the Government is giving priority
to hut-building so as to be ready
for the cast-iron recruits who
will be coming in under com-
pulsion next year.
None of these defenders of
the country—or any other
defenders —will have cold food.
“Piping-hot meals of a standard
lot always found in the best
hotels” are promised them.
Crockery wifi be emblazoned
with the unit’s badge and tables
will be covered with the “best-
quality tablecloths,” bread being
mechanically buttered for them
to save their tired muscles.
There are to be 170 cooks at
Broadmeadows getting from
£7 10s. to £l4 15s. 9d. a week.
At Puckapunyal they are ex-
perimenting with a jeep-hauled
cooker capable of feeding 150
men.
All that appears to be needed
to make the life perfect is to
abolish fighting, after which the
Army will become a career which
any youth can adopt with con-
fidence and which even Mr.
Eddie Ward will recommend.
It is all magnificent and ex-
pensive, but one wonders what
will happen to some of the units
used to spring mattresses and
heated huts, hotel cooking and
tablecloths when they find them-
selves one day confronted with
large quantities of hairy Russians
sitting on a rusty and slow-
moving tank and living on a
diet of black bread. A few
over-organised Germans of the
last war or United States troops
of the first month of the Korean
war could give an alarming
prophecy.
Mao's Red Army.
“Ek Dum”; The Chinese Red
Army is very much like the
Russian Red Army. Its organi-
sation and weapons are basically
the same, so that the two could
operate together without much
adjustment.
The management is largely
political. The Commander-in-
Chief, Chu-teh, is a Communist
of long standing who was edu-
cated in Germany and France
and later in Moscow. He is not
merely a military officer but
vice-Premier. The Chief-of-Staff
is Yeh Chien-ying, also Euro-
pean-trained with some Moscow
experience.
The Army occupies a position
strange in a country which
claims to be a campaigner for
peace. The People’s Military
Council of the Revolution is a
body by itself not subordinate
to the State Administrative
Council. All the principal com-
manders have direct representa-
tion on the Central Committee
of the Communist party of
China.
The actual forces are divided
into army groups or field armies
—the First in the north-west,
the Second in the south-west,
the Fourth in the central and
southern division. The head-
quarters of the Third Field
Army, which controls the eastern
sector, is Shanghai. The Fifth
Field Army is based on Peking.
Its C.-in-C, Nieh Jung-chen, is
French- and Moscow-trained.
He combines his duties with
those of mayor of Peking. It
is probably detachments from
his armies which are fighting in
Korea.
It is not without significance
that the Chief-of-Staff of the
combined armies has been
assigned to the control of
Kwangtung, his native province,
adjacent to Hong Kong and
Indo-China, though possibly the
fact that he is a Cantonese has
something to do with it.
The Tibetan invasion is under
control of the Second Army
with some help from the North.
The Third Army has the respon-
sibility of preparing the invasion
of Formosa when it comes.
Last year, when the “libera-
tion” campaigns finished, the
Chinese Red Army was said to
have reached 4,000,000 to
5,000,000 in strength, though a
great many of these were
camp-followers and Nationalist
p.-0.-w. who obligingly de-
cided in the customary Asiatic
manner to join the Opposi-
tion upon capture, a sensible
gesture on their part, since
Chinese custom is somewhat hard
on prisoners. However, Mao
told the Central Committee of
the Chinese Communist party in
June that it was proposed to re-
duce it to 1,000,000, its strength
when the invasion of Middle
and Southern China began in
1949, before the end of the year.
Though there is a plentiful
supply of small arms and of
some modern equipment, mainly
from Manchuria and dumps of
American equipment captured
from the Nationalists, the
Chinese must rely almost entirely
on Russia for armored vehicles,
tanks and mechanical transport.
The troops of the main core
of the armies are well disciplined
and battle-trained to some extent
and their physique in general is
said to be above the Asiatic
average, since most of them hail
from the north, where the types
are bigger and hardier than in
parts of the south. And they
are well acclimatised to winter
fighting.
“Ek Dum”: There are so
many little wars, mostly Com-
munist-organised, in being at
present that it is difficult to keep
track of them all. The position
in Tibet is nebulous, but, by a
sort of chain-reaction, Nepal
next-door appears to be involved
in a species of revolution, and
the forces of Burma have been
involved in further hostilities
against the Karens. In Assam,
Communist terrorist bands con-
tinue to operate. In Indo-China,
Hanoi, the Vietnam capital, and,
indeed, the whole structure of
French-Vietnamese defence, is
gravely threatened at the
moment of writing. Next-door
to Australia Dr. Soekarno’s In-
donesian Government has an-
nounced the occupation of Am-
bon, the h.q. of the South
Moluccan Republic, at a
moment when that Republic had
been awarded heavy damages by
the Dutch courts against the
K.P.M. for carrying Indonesian
soldiers in its ships to invade the
South Moluccas. The southern
Republic is recognised by treaty
by the Netherlands Government.
Malaya and the Philippines are
anything but quiet.


PRODUCTS OF THE
ROOTES
CROUP
Homes' Assembly Plant,
Fishermen’s Bend, Victoria
Rootes Group Distributors havt
headquarters In Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth and Launceston.
Humber-Hillman
plant at Coventry —
One of the Rootes Group’s
seven huge factories,
totalling 5 million square feet
of floor space.
&
,r
. ■ m
3^2
" * • ■?■■■'., ■/ , s
%
M
/
SCWI
*23
E3iff
ms*
WI
B
-
*
i
m
|TTi
«L
I*l
Sft.
■
A Nation-wide chain of
dealers sell and Service
Rootes Group vehicles.
I
m
ft®
.
Hu»»e»
*s
lift
\aa
a
r?
Wherever you go throughout
Australia, or anywhere else
in the world, you can be
sure of courteous, efficient
Rootes Group service.
I
: ■
Rootes Australian Assembly
Plant—a fourteen-acre factory
employing over 1,000 people.
The VITAL LINK
in an unbroken chain
of Service
Every owner of a Rootes Group vehicle is assured of con-
tinuous service ,by the presence of the great Rootes Group plant
at Fishermen’s Bend, Victoria. This 14-acre factory—the first
established in Australia by a United Kingdom motor manu-
facturer—is an integral link in the chain that begins at the
huge Rootes parent plants in England and reaches directly to
the Rootes Distributor or Dealer who supplies your car or truck.
HUMBER
HILLMAN
SUNBEAM-TALBOT
CONNER
KARRIER
PRODUCTS OF THE
ROOTES GROUP
AUSTRALIA’S FRIENDLIEST FACTORY
Humber Imperial
Humber Super Snipe Humber Hawk Hillman Minx Sunbeam-Talbot
Commer and Karrier Commercial Vehicles


FASTEST
to LONDON
dsf
ONLY 3J DAYS*
via AMERICA
(NO DOLLARS NEEDED)
Leave Sydney with BCPA on Satur-
dayf at II a.m., arrive London
.for breakfast on Tuesday! No
problems for through pas-
sengers—BCPA's fare includes a
special dollar allowance for meals
and accommodation. Travelling by
BCPA you see Honolulu and the
fabulous cities of North America
and over the "Southern Cross'*
route you enjoy the luxurious com-
fort of the sleeper-equipped DC-6.
For no additional fare, you may
break your journey at any point
along the route.
* Actual elapsed time only 77 hn,
4S mins.
BCPA
sf
TO UNITED KINGDOM
SINGLE £325
RETURN £585
★
J Departures every Wednesday and
afurday. Full particulars from your
local travel agent, or any airline
booking office. General Sales Agents:
Trans-Australia Airlines. BCPA Head
Office: S 3 Martin Place, Sydney.
BW 2741.
BCA.4f.ia
MIS
Circular Chart* for all types
of Recording Instruments
for any class of Mtthwsry
or Equlpmant
METER CHARTS • Specialty
JACfiMwO'SUIUVANfIfcL*
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
RIGHT FOR THE NIGHT
and Bright in the Morning
Wolfe’s Schnapps with lemon, at bedtime, is
a wonderfully comforting drink. After a
sound night’s sleep, you’ll wake in the morn*
ing feeling fresher and brighter.
Always have a bottle of
Wolfe’s Schnapps in the home
and take it regularly
as a night-cap • • .
for “good nights”
and “good mornings.”
r
WOLFES
rcarssr
WOLFE'S
c zrhvmdbc
SCHNAPPS
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
COMMUNISTS’ “PEACE” HOAX.
Outline history of the Soviet-
conspired “peace” hoax, as
sketched in the course of “Man-
chester Guardian” editorial com-
ment (the most blatant of all
Soviet frauds, masking active
Soviet war preparations and
aimed also at weakening defence
measures against that threat, is
just now being propagated with
special fervor by the fifth-
column in Australia):
Early in March the “Perman-
ent Committee of the World
Peace Congress” visited Mos-
cow, saw the Soviet leaders, and
then went on to Stockholm,
where it launched an appeal for
the unconditional prohibition of
the atomic bomb.
“Pravda” at the time said the
peace movement must be turned
into “a force capable of bridling
any imperialist aggressor.”
The Communist “Peace Com-
mittees” thereupon set about
holding “congresses” in their
countries and organising the col-
lection of signatures. The
Russian papers gave many de-
tails of the process. “Pravda”
on May 13 said the collection
of signatures was “the central
task at the present stage,” and
“Izvestia” on May 19 said that
“the intelligentsia.... should be
used widely and to the full.”
Specious appeals were made to
writers, actors, scientists and so
on to sign.
It was then that Soviet writer
Ehrenburg denounced British
author J. B. Priestley because he
would not sign, as “a man who
has now enlisted in the camp of
the enemies of peace,” and Mos-
cow declared that “men like
Malraux, Sartre, Gide and
Upton Sinclair have lost both
honor and conscience.”
The approach was highly
aggressive, and Moscow
described how the putting of the
straight question “Are you in
favor of the prohibition of the
atomic bomb or not?” had “en-
abled the French Roman Catho-
lic hierarchy and the Right-
wing Socialists to be isolated
and exposed as the hirelings of
the warmongers that they
we;re.” Although most publicity
was given to the blandishments
to “cultural workers,” it was
claimed that by June 2 there
had been 100,000,000 signatures,
mostly in the satellite countries.
Nonetheless, the campaign
was not going satisfactorily, and
its paper (published in Moscow)
admitted that the appeal for the
prohibition of the bomb was be-
coming “monotonous.”
Hints were sent out on how
to deal with doubters who
wanted to know why only the
atomic bomb was to be pro-
hibited. The ingenuous answer
was that it was purely a weapon
of aggression; its prohibition
would be a “fearful rebuff” to
the warmongers and would put
an end to the cold war, creating
“favorable conditions for
negotiation.” “Pravda” argued,
curiously in the light of later
events, that the peace campaign
actually strengthened the United
Nations; “the American im-
perialists regard the United
Nations as an obstacle blocking
the way to the unleashing of
their international adventures.”
Under this advice and exhorta-
tion the pace in June grew
hotter, and the climax came
with the endorsement of the
appeal by the Supreme Council
of the Soviet Union on June 19.
It now had, announced
“Pravda,” the support of “pro-
gressive mankind” ; it was led
by the Soviet people, “the
builders of Communism, headed
by the leader of all progressive
mankind, Stalin.”
Significantly, the Korean war
began on June 25. On June 28
the Soviet Peace Committee met
in Moscow, and on June 30 a
great campaign for the collec-
tion of Russian signatures began.
This was treated as a protest
against “American aggression”
in Korea and as an expression
of “unbounded fidelity to the
inspirer of the world peace
movement, the great Stalin.” By
July 9 96,000,000 Russian signa-
tures were claimed, by August 3
115,275,940 —virtually the whole
adult population. The rest of
the world supplied about
150.000. Now a total of
336.000. is claimed!
In Russia the campaign is
crudely used to whip up factory
production and to raise morale
by horrifying tales of American
brutality. Externally there has
since been a shift of agitation to
Asiatic countries and to the
Middle East, with special in-
structions to attract the peasant
masses. In the East the story is
that the West will bomb the
peoples out of their independ-
ence ; in the West it is pious
outcries against bombing and
fierce abuse of all who think
that the Russian satellite was
the aggressor in Korea. The
tactics, as they have been ex-
New York “Herald Tribune.”
ODYSSEUS AND THE SIRENS.
plained in “Pravda,” amount
merely to subservient endorse-
ment of Russian policy.
“We should have to look far,”
the “Guardian” survey con-
cluded, “to find a more dis-
honest movement.”
Indo-China Threat.
In general, the British Press
seems to have learnt enough
from Korea to be more realistic
about Indo-China, and this
“News Chronicle” comment can
be taken as typical:
“If Indo-China were lost
Communism would be on the
borders of Siam, the principal
rice-bowl of the East. The Gov-
ernment there might easily suc-
cumb, and if it did the food-
supplies of Burma, Malaya and
India would be threatened.
“With luck and somewhat
better judgment than has some-
times been shown in the past
the French may be able to stave
off this menace, but they are
not powerful enough to remove
it, America is sending help, but
is this enough? Is it not time
that U.N.O. took some action to
stop a local war which has much
graver possibilities than any-
thing that happened in Korea?”
South-Asia Risks.
In the course of an expert sur-
vey of British-Commonwealth
risks around the Southern Asian
fringe, former editor of the Cal-
cutta “Statesman” Sir Alfred
Watson has decided doubts
about India;
“Any belief that India will
stand with the Commonwealth
without question becomes a
dangerous illusion, the more so
because the last remnants of
British holdings in the Pacific are
in imminent danger of chal-
lenge.”
Regarding Hong Kong,
Malaya and Burma as three
points of danger, he expects as a
near-future certainty that Com-
munist China will assert a claim
to take over Hong Kong. “The
demand may be based on the
suggestion of the late President
Roosevelt that the island settle-
ment, which is wholly a British
creation, should be returned to
China. Possibly his successor in
the Presidency would revise that
advice,” And the question is,
where, in face of a Chinese ulti-
matum and of British resistance,
would India stand?
“As regards Malaya, Pandit
Nehru has already indicated that
in his view Great Britain should
remain until ordered govern-
ment can be established and then
quit. About any such policy
there is obviously the likelihood
of grave differences of opinion
within the Commonwealth.
“Burma may in its turn prove
a test of Empire relation-
ship. Burma, it is true, is
not in the Commonwealth; it
has been accorded an absolute
independence leading to the
sorriest mess in the East. Techni-
cally its defence is no concern
of anybody but its own people.
China, however, is reviving an
old claim to suzerainty, and
against Chinese arms Burma
could oppose no effective force.
Any conquest of Burma bringing
China to the Bay of Bengal and
the borders of India itself would
be of the gravest concern to the
Indian Government. If it felt
compelled to assist the Burmese
against aggression would it hold
that resistance was a Common-
wealth matter or one in which
the United Nations was in-
volved?”
Contending that these pro-
blems emphasise the necessity of
greater clarity in Commonwealth
relations and some unbreakable
understanding of what they in-
volve—“A far more precise
understanding than has ever been
reached or attempted in the
past”—the writer warns that
without this “the nations of the
Commonwealth may find too
late that they have based their
every calculation of strength
upon a misapprehension and may
discover opponents where they
had counted on firm allies.
“Pandit Nehru’s impatience
with the Western Powers, that
take decisions affecting vast
areas in Asia without under-
standing the minds of the people,
finds its corollary in the difficulty
that Western people have in
interpreting the ambiguities in
which Eastern statesmanship
conceals its purposes. Every
reason now exists for an en-
deavor to clear the air of mutual
suspicion and seek agreement as
to future courses. The time dur-
ing which such negotiations are
possible may be perilously short.
To let things drift' in the present
atmosphere of uncertainty is to
invite catastrophe for both East
and West.”
The Enemy Within.
Holding that “To claim that
in a free society there must be
no restriction on activities aimed
at destroying its free institutions
is merely futile,” London “Daily
Telegraph” comments:
“CiviJ liberties are precious,
but they cannot be extended to
protect those engaged in abolish-
ing them. We do not know
where, after Korea, the next
blow will fall, or when it will
fall. Troop concentrations
threatening Yugoslavia are re-
ported which may portend a
concerted satellite attack to
overthrow the Tito regime. In
any case, an essential step in
meeting any eventuality is to
strengthen the home front. This
is the consideration which
weighed with the French Gov-
ernment in deciding to round up
actual and potential fifth-


Missing Friends.
JACK LOCKINGTON
(full name JOHN BOWEN LOCKINGTON)
formerly of 17 Norton Street, Sydney, son
of Teresa and late Fred Lockington, of
Melbourne, or ANY PERSON KNOWING
HIS WHEREABOUTS, please communi-
cate with GORDON RENNICK, Solicitor,
339 Collins Street, Melbourne.
WOULD the next-of-kin of FRANCIS
BERNARD MITCHELL, late of East Syd-
ney, who died on the 3rd March, 1919,
or any person knowing their whereabouts,
please communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
re the estate of Francis Bernard Mitchell.
Public Notice.
I, SINAIDA KOTELMANN, of German
nationality, bom at St. Petersburg, Russia,
resident 21 years in Australia, now resid-
ing at 91a Brook Street, Naremburn,
Sydney, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1918.
r ' : V.'-
h | Iv
I’M
V\ \ \
\S
v'Y >
v \
/■/>.
s . \
0
.’' v<V. S
k
S
Ud
mm
■; ; : #Y
* '• •’ f,* I .'
I*
WS)'Hk
SMM
m<k
■
t&t
' .• 5 •
. V! •
m
m>
ifm
&H9BSH
r x *;
swaflfiaaj
r i
Z^s?
j$P
II
Ms
zm
TOP DOG
FOR MEN AND BOYS
moioid v hum ONvaa nu
€
ASk
columnists, and which should
weigh with our own Govern-
ment in confronting like security
problems.”
U.S. Policy Moves.
What the U.S. has cooked up
in the way of a Jap peace treaty,
according to “Manchester Guar-
dian” :
Restoration of full liberty as
a sovereign Power. No indem-
nities or other costly indignities
of defeat. No restrictions on
rearmament or foreign trade.
The U.S. will welcome Japan’s
admission to the United Nations.
On which the “Guardian”
surmises:
“It may be supposed that in
return Japan will agree to the
stationing of American troops in
the Japanese islands. The inten-
tion seems to be that this will
be by a separate agreement and
will not be written into the
treaty. Thus Washington hopes
to get the best of both worlds —
a friendly Japan and the military
outposts which it thinks neces-
sary.”
An early Jap treaty is one
of the three major moves
in U.S. policy being currently
pushed by Secretary of State
Acheson, the others being the
plan for the defence of Europe,
and the plan to by-pass the
Soviet veto in the Security
Council and to mobilise collec-
tive military forces against
aggression through U.N.O.’s
General Assembly.
The essential element in each
of these plans (as noted by a
New York “Herald Tribune”
writer) is that there is to be an
American force specially ear-
marked for the purpose of that
plan. The European policy calls
for additional American divi-
sions in Germany—somewhere
between five and ten. The pro-
posed Jap treaty calls for Ameri-
can forces adequate to defend
Japan. The U.N.O. proposals
call for American units “to be
especially trained and equipped
and continuously maintained in
readiness for prompt service on
behalf of the United Nations.”
They will all draw from the
same pool: from the supply of
trained and equipped ground
troops which the post-Korean
military effort will produce.
The “Herald Tribune” writer
gives the following as the pur-
pose of all these moves;
“Their purpose is to recon-
struct a society of independent,
though collaborating nations —
more specifically to revive the
power of Europe and of Japan
so that we and they can look
forward to a time when they no
longer have to choose between
the domination of Russia and
being dependants of the United
States.”
The Two War Risks.
A “Yorkshire Post” writer re-
fers to the analysis of war risks
by Mr. Churchill in which the
prophet mentioned “two factors
which might prove decisive”;
“One is the calculations and
designs of the autocracy in the
Kremlin ; the other is ‘the anger
of the people in the United
States at the treatment they are
receiving and the burdens they
have to bear.’ ”
A similar finding by London
“Times” has already been quoted
here, but, as the “Yorkshire
Post” writer puts it, “This, I
think, was the first clear refer-
ence by a British statesman to
what has long been a dormant
but serious possibility a
righteously indignant resort by
the Americans to preventive war.
Mr. Churchill did not enlarge
upon this possibility, but ex-
pressed a firm conviction that
while there was a solid hope of
building an effective European
army, the United States would
forbear from launching hostili-
ties.”
Views on Germany.
The differing views of the
U.S., France and Britain, as
summarised by London “Time
and Tide”: —
“The American attitude is
roughly this; If Germany is to
be defended against a Russian
invasion, she must take part in
that defence. It would be
absurd if her manpower and her
resources were immobilised
while the Western Powers are
defending her territory. German
participation might make the
difference between victory and
defeat.
“The French attitude is one
of categorical negation; for
France does not wish Germany
to re-emerge as a military
Power and is sceptical whether,
in the confused and overheated
situation that may arise if the
tension in Europe increases, it
will be possible to restrain
Germany once she is armed.
“The British attitude is some-
where between the French and
American and is, on the whole,
prevailing.”
Cripps Bequest.
All sections of the British
Press joined in sympathising with
Sir Stafford Cripps’s sickness-
enforced retirement as Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer and in
giving him his meed of praise
for such qualities as sincerity
and integrity. However, there
was also no sparing of criticism
of Cripps policies and the con-
sequent “bequest” to Britain.
Two examples:
“Daily Express.” “No
amount of sympathy for Cripps
the man should blunt criticism
of Cripps the politician. The
fact that he sincerely and
honestly believed in the eco-
nomic policies which with fierce
energy he pursued through five
testing years does not make
these policies good ones. They
have done this country incalcul-
able harm, and have impeded
the drive towards human happi-
ness.
“Why did Sir Stafford go
wrong? Perhaps because, while
he knew much about economics,
he knew little about human
beings. He believed in harsh,
dry austerity not only for him-
self. He enforced the same dry,
harsh austerity on the whole
country. He could not under-
stand that the desire to earn
more money to spend on his
family would make a man work
harder. He relied instead on
controls and restrictions. And
when these failed he put on still
more controls and restrictions to
back them up. He pegged the
wages of the working man in a
time of rising prices. In so doing
he created misery.
“Sir Stafford’s devaluation of
the £ has been claimed by some
as a magic formula which has
saved the country. It has done
nothing of the kind. Devalua-
tion was the last desperate resort
of a Government which had no
faith in the strength of its own
currency. By arbitrarily fixing
the £ at a low value, instead of
letting it float free, Sir Stafford
may have made Britain’s goods
temporarily sell more cheaply
abroad. But he also made sure
that here at home there would
be the inevitable penalty of ris-
ing prices and an ever-lowering
standard of living.”
“Financial Times.” “Over-
taxation has many manifesta-
tions besides the reduced pur-
chasing-power of net wages and
the lack of incentive to work.
One which takes time to reach
its full force but then acts in-
exorably against the sources of
taxation themselves is the check
to the accumulation and stability
of capital—the chief means to
higher standards of life.
“The latest report of the
Commissioners of Inland
Revenue showed that only 86
people in the United Kingdom
were left with an annual income
exceeding £6OOO after paying
income tax and surtax, and only
85,260 had net incomes exceed-
ing £2OOO. No doubt Sir Staf-
ford congratulates himself on
this successful levelling. But if
he reflected first that this level
of £2OOO which is so increasingly
hard to attain is equivalent to
scarcely more than £lOOO pre-
war, and, secondly, that only
from net incomes can savings be
made and private capital built
up, he might well congratulate
himself on getting out of office
before the consequences of his
policies have all rebounded either
upon industry or upon the
Exchequer.”
Dragnet Digest.
Sans Rhee. Milwaukee (U.S.A.)
“Journal” suggests a liquidation:
“When South Korea is saved and is
strong enough to safeguard itself,
Synghman Rhee said, he is sure that
forces of other nations will leave
Korea. That’s a safe assumption—
but Rhee omits an important aspect
of any new leave-taking. This time,
if the United Nations and the United
States are wise, South Korea will be
left to rule itself only when a strong,
democratic regime is created —without
the services of Rhee. To leave South
Korea again in the hands of Rhee
and his undemocratic political forces
would be to invite trouble in Korea
from then on.”
* * * *
Babel, U.S.A. —According to a
New York “Herald Tribune” count
there are 126 radio-stations in the
United States which broadcast a
total of 314 programmes in foreign
languages. In all, there are 26 foreign
languages spoken on the American
air.
* ♦ • ♦
A Word for MacArthur. —Insisting
that, in his Inchon-landing tactics,
General MacArthur “took a calcu-
lated risk” which proved “brilliantly
successful,” and which at once
“transformed the American position
in Korea from a precarious defensive
into decisive victory,” London “Daily
Mail” special correspondent G. Ward
Price declares that MacArthur did
this in the face of strong opposition
from high quarters in America and
of grave misgivings among many of
his own subordinate commanders. He
adds that General Edward Almond,
MacArthur’s Chief of Staff, was
almost the only general who favored
MacArthur’s plan of landing at
Inchon.
* * * ♦
Dollar Problem Finished? —“Man-
chester Guardian’s” financial editor
has his doubts: “Two things seem to
be taken too much for granted. One
is that the ‘dollar problem’ need no
longer worry us; the other is that
America is in for high inflation, which
will make it less necessary for us to
keep our own costs and prices down.
Both assumptions may be dis-
appointed.” As for the dollar gap,
he points out that it “has been closed
far more by import cuts than by
export expansion, and import cots In
the sterling area have probably been
too sharp to last.”
* * ♦ *
Britain’s Steel Division. —The row
over the Attlees’ steel grab continues
hotter than ever, its effect of dividing
Britain when unity is urgently needed
being regarded by London “Times”
as its worst aspect: “The output of
steel has been impressive ever since
the war. By any standards of com-
parison steelmaking has been far
more efficient than any of the newly-
nationalised industries, and its
workers have been more contented
and co-operative. It is these facts,
not politics alone, that explain the
deep and natural resentment felt, not
only in the ranks of the Opposition,
at the Government’s decision to go
ahead with nationalisation now, at
whatever cost and however much it
may aggravate national divisions.”
* * * ♦
Smuts’s Will. —A provisional esti-
mate, reported in London “Times,”
put General Smuts’s estate at £57,000,
all left to Mrs. Smuts except for £lOO
left to a native woman servant.
However, before going to San Fran-
cisco conference in 1945 Smuts gave
his sundry farms and their stock to
his children, and it would be hard
to put a value on many items left,
since these include gold and silver
caskets presented when General
Smuts received the freedom of many
cities, gold and silver keys, medals,
decorations and his field-marshal’s
baton. Many documents and other
articles of historic interest are to go
to the Government archives and the
Transvaal museum after the death of
Mrs. Smuts. There is an immense
library of books on a wide variety
of subjects. Mrs. Smuts has kept a
complete record of Press cuttings
bearing on General Smuts’s career
from the time he was 16 years of
age. Provision is made in the will
for these to be handed to the Govern-
ment archives and the Transvaal
museum.


LOOK YOUR BEST!
ss
p
Hide itf
Personal appearance means much
be proud of yours it always pays to
look your best.
We, too, have pride:—Pride in every
hat that leaves our mill . . . Pride in
the dependable service
each hat will give its
wearer . . . Pride in our
splendid customer rela-
tions over the past thirty-
seven years.
w
AKUBRA
FRENCH
Corn Cure
I Cures Callouses and Corns
I Available at
Anthony Horderns’
For exlra miles
-
I
>
rmx>.
. . . sate miles!
BUY GOODYEAR DELUXE TYRES
AT
THIS SIGN
OOD/'YEAR
TYRES
BL6-H
Your Goodyear Dealer knows lyre values—he knows Deluxe Tyres give
greater mileage and greater safely.
When you know that Deluxe Tyres are built with a wider, flatter
tread for better road grip ... a stronger cord body . . - huskier
shoulders . . . it’s easy to see why you get extra miles * a ™
on Goodyear. See your Goodyear Dealer buy Goodyear tor
greater economy and safely.
Two Treads are available: DeLuxe Rib, Deluxe All-Weather
MORE PEOPLE, THE WORLD OVER. RIDE ON
GOODYEAR TYRES THAN ON ANY OTHER MAKE
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
THE No. I DRINK
for wise men
“Fat people can reduce by eating
non-fattening substances that expand
in the stomach and give a feeling of
fullness, according to a New York
doctor.”
We get the same effect here
with inflation.
4* 4* 4*
“Convicts in the prison without
bars at Sudbury, Staffordshire, must
change for dinner.”
Those who don’t are barred.
4* 4* 4*
“Charles Dickens named characters
for his novels after names he saw in
the windows of barbers’ shops, ac-
cording to novelist Phyllis Bentley.”
For instance, there was that
young shaver Oliver Twist.
“Many butchers admitted they sold
mutton for lamb and yearling for
veal.” — Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
And to think that the public
swallows it!
4* 4* 4*
“There is some mystery about what
became of the Communist forces in
Southern Korea.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Perhaps they disguised them-
selves as atom-scientists.
4* 4* 4*
“Visiting German scientist Dr. W.
Centner says that man has only about
100-million years to live because by
that time the oceans will be boiling.”
Mermaids then will be hot
numbers.
4* 4* 4*
“A well-known grazier was seen to
be losing heavily at Rosehill yester-
day.”—Sydney “Sunday Sun:”
Did some tipster pull the wool
over his eyes?
4* 4* 4*
“Don’t look worried if any small
accident should happen at the table.”
—Sydney “Truth.” —
Such as spilling the beans.
4* 4* 4*
“The best way to tell a woman’s
character is by her stockings.”
—“New Idea.”
But she may not be as good
as she seams.
4* 4* 4*
“Career spinsters are a class all on
their own.” — Women’s paper.
One which avoids homework.
4* 4* 4*
“Miss played her past with
decision.” —“ Advocate v (Taj-.).
This should assure her a bright
future.
A Bouncing Brain-child.
“An all-rubber garbage-can has
been patented by a Milwaukee manu-
facturing company.”
—Sydney ‘‘Sunday Sun.”
Oh you can have your clever
coves
Who bring out washing-up
machines
And gadgets good for stringing
beans.
Or shining new electric-stoves.
The womenfolk, I must admit,
Want all these things at any
price,
A nd hanker for each new device.
Most likely just to boast of it.
But I, like any other man,
Who want a thing to stand the
wear
It’s bound to get from son-and-
heir
Prefer a boy-proof water-can.
And having mended not a few
Well-dented garbage-tins at times
I’ll sing the praises in these
rhymes
Of one that seems entirely pneu.
BERT.
The Team of Test Com-
mentators Goes Fishing.
“Well, what do you think of
this for a pitch, Arthur?
Arthur gave a dubious glance
at the surrounding white-caps
and then cocked an eye above.
“Well, Jack,” he said, “they
might be whipping in a bit from
the off shortly, and I rather think
it might be a bit sticky later.
Still, if the luck’s with us we
might put up a decent score.
Ha, ha.”
“Well, I think it’s all right,
chaps. I’ll sling this anchor out
towards long-on. You can toss
that forward one out towards
first slip, Neville.”
“Good. It’s away ... By
Jove, it is running out prestis-
simo. That shouldn’t be taken
at such a tempo. But what else
could one expect in such a cul-
tural backwater as this! Ah,
to be back in Manchester,
where”
“Righto. Here are the lines.
Nylons and cuttyhunks. Help
yourselves. You’ll find the tin
of mullet-gut at short square-leg
from where you’re facing, R.-G.”
The witty Sassenach - Cale-
“Fine present to give a man!”
donian reached over, dived his
hand into the tin and withdrew
it, a look of horror on his face.
“What a revolting mess!” he
exclaimed. “Rather reminds me
of the wicket at Old Trafford in
thirty-two, when the captains
couldn’t agree on it and they had
to get a jolly divah to report
on it” —and he dived for his
handkerchief.
“Don’t wipe your mitts on
that!” counselled Vic. “You’ll
never get the smell off it. Swill
’em over the side.”
“My dear Victor, I’m not
chancing being caught like that,”
retorted R.-G. “Isn’t the water
positively stiff with blue-nurses
and Corporal Bakers and other
maneaters? I think I’ll try the
offside here —I was never too
good at hooking ’em.”
Harold, who had already
baited-up and was standing in
bare feet —he wasn’t chancing
any of his old boot trouble again
—limbered up for his run.
“Where do you want this,
skipper?” he asked. “On the
off or the on?”
“The off,” replied Jack. “Jar-
dine isn’t here now, you know.
You’re more likely to get a
catch there, anyhow. They seem
to be nibbling at it over that
side —they always do.”
“Quite!” put in Arthur. “I
distinctly recall an incident in
the thirty-six series. It was in
the first innings of the Trent
Bridge match, and I think it was
the fourth ball of Harold’s fifth
over —or was it the fifth ball of
his fourth over? You’d remem-
ber it, Vic. No, I believe it was
the fourth ball of the sixth over.
Anyway, this one was swinging
away and Ponsford packed up
to play a defensive shot when he
snicked it; it”
“That wasn’t Ponsford,” said
Neville pontifically. “It was
Taylor.”
“Plenty of them around,” an-
nounced Vic shrewdly, looking
over the side. “Look, there’s
swarms of ’em. Good bait for
snapper, tod, and they’re good
sport.”
As someone laughed Neville
held up his left hand, and you
could almost see him glaring at
the brasses and tympani. “Sh!”
he whispered. " Pianissimo,
please. R.-G.’s got a fish on his
line and I want to hear how he
plays it.”
“There’s a chance for a run-
out here! ” exclaimed Arthur ex-
citedly. “Whip it in quickly.”
R.-G. hauled in his catch. It
proved to be a toad-fish, which,
immediately it came over the
side, began rapidly to inflate it-
self.
“What a most remarkable
coda,” said Neville, pointing to
its tiny tail, “This jolly fish
seems to be some sort of wind
instrument, what?”
“Duck!” said Harold, swing-
ing a new one viciously. It
whirled a few times, then there
was a bump as the hook caught
in R.-G.’s coat and the nylon
encircled his chest.
There was a chorus of “Body-
line ! ” from the assemblage.
Arthur and Jack immediately
started on a long reminiscence,
but the partnership was broken
when Jack was stumped for a
word to describe the leg-trap
laid by Jardine.
As Vic began hauling in to
see if he was baited Neville re-
garded his execution with strong
disapproval. “Such a crude use
of the glissandp,” he pronounced
at last, “positively makes me
shudder. Compare Vic’s tech-
nique with that used so bril-
liantly by Szigeti in the Delius
Concerto! I must say I have
rarely witnessed a movement
wound up so raggedly in the
string section. No fine-spun tex-
ture, no finesse, nothing to re-
mind one in it of a sunset off
the Gold Coast in late autumn,
no je ne sais quoi even.”
At that moment R.-G.’s line
tautened, then began to
skitter through his fingers. As
it stopped running he began to
haul in rapidly.
“There’s only one in it!” ex-
claimed Vic.
As the gleaming captive be-
came visible under the water
Neville, caught off guard, mur-
mured “Well played, sir!” But
instead of waiting for someone
to get the hand-net R.-G. ex-
citedly heaved the squire straight
in. It flew across the other side
of the boat, catching Jack in the
chest as he perched precariously
on the bulwarks. As he over-
balanced and went overboard
Alan grabbed an imaginary
“mike” and yelled “He’s out!
Yes, he’s out! He went back
too far with that one and was
bowled neck and crop. Listen
to the roar! Gaff him out,
Vic.”
As Arthur complained then
that he couldn’t see properly to
hook ’em an appeal against the
light was upheld.
Bo.
The Nonconformist.
Within the Cadgers' Club they
keep
A savage, snarling deerhound.
Where artists, bards and “hams”
drink deep
He is the sole non-beerhound.
What’s more, this dog, by special
grace,
Continues still to slight me
The only one about the place
That’s never tried to bite me.
BRIAN BUREAU.


-
The 1950
Vickers
Cocktad Book
brings you ...
I
*&«&&&£Sts®*
exciting
new
cocktail
recipes
Cocktail mixing is fnn.
With the new FREE
1950 Vickers Cocktail
Book you can't make
a mistake in mixing
appetising dry, sweet
or medium cocktails
and refreshing, long
drinks.
Prominent among the
recipes is “The Double
Century”, a NEW
cocktail which cele-
brates our 200 yean
of tradition.
FOR YOUR FREE COPY of the
NEW, 1950 Vickers Gin Cocktail
Book, write to The United Distillers
Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 75 9G, Eliza-
beth St., Melbourne. It will be
mailed promptly, post free.
Vickers
v GIN
• • i 3 People in 5 choose Vickers.
fThe greatest name in Gin
from Australia’s greatest distillery.
200
YEARS
OF
TRADITION
1750-1950
VG33/T6
The comfort of
large car but ..
I
I
THE JAVELIN COSTS LESS TO DRIVE
df
Acceleration 0.60 in
22.2 secs.
Horizontally opposed
Flat-four 50 b.h.p.
Engine.
Torsion Bar Suspen*
sion.
Steel Body.
Enjoy large-car comfort and riding
qualities all on the cost of running
a light car. Fuel consumption
is only 35 miles on a gallon
at a steady 35 m.p.h. yet there
is ample elbow-room, knee-room
and head-room for up to six
passengers and luggage.
Powered with a 50 B.H.P. four-
cylinder engine the Javelin has
no rival in its class for speed,
acceleration, and road ability.
Once tried you’ll say *Fd rather
go by Javelin!’
★ Made in Bradford, England, by JOWETT CARS LIMITED
COMMONWEALTH DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. and A.0.T.: Bradford Oars Pty. Ltd., 218 New South Head Rd., Edgecliff.
Phone: FB 3100.
Victoria: Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 149-155 Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
Queensland: Redman Motors, 46-64 Edward St., Brisbane.
South Aust.: British Engineering Appliances Ltd., 430 King William St., Adelaide.
Western Aust.: Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., 722 Wellington St., Perth.
Tasmania: Donald Oorringe Pty. Ltd., 72 Argyle Street, Hobart.
THE 14 LITRE
jorarJAVEllN
t&£e /W Mbesi yore
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The above lines headed this page
just 60 years ago, and they seem to
be quite as pertinent today. Actually,
with the 1950 Melbourne Cup won
by Comic Court at 25 to 1, the verse
is more appropriate today than it
was in 1890, for that year the Cup
had been won by the red-hot favorite
Carbine.
After going through the natural
ceremony of heartily kicking oneself
for allowing the best horse in Aus-
tralia to run against one at such
fancy odds in the Cup, the first
reaction to Comic Court’s win was
the realisation that his victory must
rank among the really outstanding
performances in the history of the
Melbourne Cup. Comic Court carried
topweight of 9.5, strode boldly to the
front some seven furlongs from home,
won by lengths from Chicquita and
Morse Code, and clocked The
previous Australian record for two
miles had been Spear Chief’s 3.19 i,
and the previous Melbourne Cup
record Rimfire’s 3.21.
Overlooking the first two Mel-
bourne Cups, which were won by
Archer, carrying 9.7 in 1861 and
10.2 the following year, only five
Cup winners have carried bigger
weights than Comic Court’s 9.5.
They were Malua with 9.9 in 1884;
Carbine with 10.5 in 1890; Poitrel
with lOst. in 1920; Phar Lap with
9.12 in 1930 and Peter Pan with 9.10
in 1934.
On paper, and probably in fact,
Carbine’s effort was the “best-ever.”
It was a curiosity to see what con-
temporary observers thought of his
win that led to a search through
Bulletin files and the unearthing of
the verse which heads this page.
Actually the Bulletin man of the
period had expressed his opinion of
Carbine (again in verse) the week
before the Cup:
“Carbine when the Cup is won,
Horse of horses shall be reckoned.”
A fair prediction, for Carbine won
with the biggest weight on record,
beat the biggest field on record (39
starters) and ran then-record time of
3.28*.
Others, of course, will claim Peter
Pan’s 1934 win as “best-ever.” Peter
Pan carried 9.10 to victory on a
track so bad that his time of 3.40*
is the slowest on record since 1868 —
12sec. slower than Carbine had
clocked 44 years before and 17sec.
slower than he himself had run in
1932. Others, again, will not hear
of anything being placed in the same
category as Phar Lap. Poitrel will
have his admirers for having won
with a weight exceeded only by Car-
bine’s. Malua has his own special
niche in turf history as an astonishing
all-rounder —winner of a Newmarket,
a Melbourne Cup and a Grand
National Hurdle. Whatever the rela-
tive merits of these outstanding Cup
winners, Comic Court certainly finds
himself in distinguished company.
Any discussion centring around
horses of today and those of 50 or
60 years ago cannot help but work
round eventually to the perpetual
controversy “Are horses of today
better than those of yesteryear?”
Of course they are! And, unless one
is to believe that breeders have been
utterly wasting their time and effort
for more than two centuries, the
horses of a couple of decades hence
will be better than those of today.
It is not a matter of comparing, say,
Comic Court with one or two out-
standing winners of the past, but
rather a more general comparison,
and the only possible basis for com-
parison is the question of times
recorded. The first Melbourne Cup
was won in 3.52. Since then seconds
and fractions of seconds have been
steadily and consistently lopped off
till we arrive at Comic Court’s latest
record. Tim Whiffler, in 1867, was
the first to break 3.40 when he
recorded 3.39. Seldom since then
have winning times reverted to the
3.40-and-over class. Again, in 1885
Sheet Anchor broke the 3.30 mark
with 3.29^; within a few years Cup
times had settled down to be con-
sistently in the twenties. Now Comic
Court, in one fell swoop, has brought
us from 3.21 down into the ’teens.
Diehards who will have no truck
with the notion that present-day
horses could possibly be better than
their favorites of other days always
hurl back the reply “Yes, but look
how the tracks have improved since
those days.” To this, a typically
shrewd counter-reply comes from
Don Bradman in his recent book
Farewell to Cricket :
“Faster times in racing are gener-
ally attributed to better tracks. 1
invariably fall back upon swimming,
m which sport records have been
smashed beyond recognition. The
water has not changed over the
years.”
To place the 1950 Melbourne Cup
fully on record, Comic Court is a
five-year-old brown horse by Powers-
court from Witty Maid, is owned by
Messrs. R. A., J. D. and A. J. Lee,
and is trained by J. Cummings. For-
saken by his usual rider, J. Purtell,
Comic Court was ridden in the Cup
by a young South Australian jocfcey,
P. Glennon, who, had his tactics
failed, would have been severely
criticised for taking the topweight to
the front so far from home, but, as
it is, he is acclaimed. Comic Court
won by three lengths from his old
and constant rival Chicquita, with
Morse Code a length further back
and just shading Benvolo. Favorite
for the Cup was the dual Derby
winner Alister, who proved not up
to the job; his connections may find
consolation in the fact that Comic
Court, too, failed as a three-year-old
and again as a four-year-old. This
page’s selection, Bruin, broke a bone
in his leg, which is a reasonable
excuse for his failure, but it is
doubtful that any horse racing could
have beaten Comic Court on the day.
The third day of the V.R.C.
spring meeting saw True Course
prove every bit the good thing that
had been anticipated in the Oaks.
Starting at 9-to-4-on, the Midstream
filly won in effortless fashion with
four lengths to spare from Weka, who
was followed at some further dis-
tance by Niaranga. The win brought
True Course’s total winnings to
£19,231. No other filly has won so
much even at the end of its three-
year-old career, and True Course has
more than half the season yet ahead
of her. Of mares racing today only
the year-older Chicquita has won
more than True Course, and Chic-
quita had won only £ll,OOO-odd at
the end of her three-year-old racing.
Among great mares of the past only
Flight (£30,627), Tranquil Star
(£29,690), Desert Gold (£23,133) and
Furious (£20,172) exceeded what True
Course has already collected.
The V.R.C. meeting wound up on
a subdued tone on Saturday. Largely
it was a day of consolation prizes for
horses which had failed in the better-
class events earlier in the meeting.
Main boilover of the day was pro-
vided by Playboy’s comfortable defeat
of Delta, odds-on favorite Chicquita
and Benvolo in the w.-f.-a. C. B.
Fisher Plate (12f.). At his previous
three starts Playboy had failed in the
Caulfield Cup, missed out again in
the Mackinnon Stakes on Derby Day
and pulled up in the Melbourne Cup.
Munro, who rode Playboy in the
Mackinnon Stakes and Melbourne
Cup, declined the mount on Satur-
day, reportedly on the ground that
he feared there would be a nasty
demonstration if the horse should
chance to win. Darby showed good
anticipation—and judgment.
Other consolation winners on
Saturday were Midway and Lloric.
Runner-up in the Derby, Midway
(W. Williamson) won the 10-furlongs
Batman Stakes. Lloric (D. Munro),
winner of the A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate
but a failure in the V.R.C. Mari-
byrnong Plate, made a comfortable
job of winning the Flemington Stakes.
* * * *
Sydney punters at Canterbury on
Saturday found the road a trifle more
rocky than it had been during their
fantastically good run of recent
weeks. And certainly the battered
bookies took no risks about such few
“good things” as there were available.
Both two-year-old events, which
opened the programme, went to
favorites, but they were favorites at
odds guaranteed to ward off the
average punter. Pretty Buttons (R.
Selkrig) won the Juvenile for fillies
at 11-to-8-on and Solrex (J. Thomp-
son), winning the other Juvenile,
started at 5-to-4-on,
Other winners amounted to a
moderate bunch beating fellow-
moderates. Dynamite (G. Whitney)
won the Flying, Thimble (R. Selkrig)
the Canterbury Handicap, Firm (A.
James) and New Look (B. Faggotter)
divisions of the Welter, Atom Age
(J. Waterhouse) the Burwoo.d Mixed
and Final Act (G. Podmore) the
Maiden Stakes.
♦ * * ♦
For Randwick (before accept-
ances): —
Kindergarten Stakes: Nicaragua,
1; Estaminet, 2; Lianda, 3. Novice:
Miss Moya, I; Benefit, 2; Fresteem,
3. Junior Stakes : Highlea, 1; Bush-
wind, 2; Cuvalla Lad, 3. Horsley
Handicap: Video, 1; Pantomime, 2;
Skip Court, 3. Narellan Handicap:
Video, 1; Seasonal, 2; Even Flow, 3.
Milperra Handicap: lolanda, 1;
Great World, 2; Steady, 3. Leumeah
Handicap: Caribbean, 1; Sir Raven,
2; Granite, 3.
* * * *
As captured here by Wells, V.R.C.
chairman Richard Turnbull has just
the right air of pride proper in a man
conscious of a job well done. The
job has been that of heading the
committee responsible for organising
and running Australia’s biggest race-
V.R.C. CHAIRMAN.
meeting—the Melbourne Cup carnival
at Flemington A pastoralist by call-
ing, Turnbull has been chairman of
the V.R.C. committee since 1942; his
father, Scottish-born John Turnbull,
was a committeeman before him.
* * * *
The major tennis season opened in
Sydney on Friday with the inter-State
match N.S.W. v. Victoria for the
Mars Buckley Cup. Although further
matches were played early this week,
Victoria, fielding its Davis Cup-
winning team, had pretty well
clinched victory by the end
of Saturday’s play; Victoria’s first
win since 1927. With Worthington
and Bromwich unavailable, N.S.W.
had to rely on an unfit Sidwell, the
veteran Quist and the very junior
juniors Hoad and Rosewall. The
outstanding impression of the tennis
was the wonderful effect the winning
of the Davis Cup has on both players
and spectators. The young Davis
Cup-winners were players entirely
different from the lads who left
here in quest of the Cup. As to the
spectators, receipts for the first two
days of the series were £468; the
previous best total for a N.S.W. v.
Victoria series was £75.
* * * *
Cricket this season seems to be
taking a turn for the better, and
cracking attendances reflect
public appreciation of a
brighter, more-spirited ap-
proach to the game. More
than once in recent weeks
what had promised to be
dull, drawn games have
been transformed to cricket-
at-its-best by one captain
making a sporting declara-
tion and the other accept-
ing the challenge. Latest
instance was the N.S.W. v.
Q’land Shield match in
Sydney. On the final day
Queensland captain Don
Tallon declared at four for
237, leaving N.S.W. to try
to get 225 in 131 minutes.
The ’Walers, or rather
Miller and Morris alone,
did it with 11 minutes to
spare; Miller was 138 n. 0.,
Morris 78 n.o. and sundries
nine.
After a brief breather,
N.S.W. then turned to
tackle the M.C.C. tourists,
whose match v. Victoria
earlier in the week had
ended in a draw. Once
again the stars of the match
were Miller and Morris;
given a free hand to con-
centrate on his batting,
Miller this year is a very
different player from the
frequently don’t-give-a-darn
batsman of the past couple of sea-
sons, The Sydney Cricket Ground
pitch for the M.C.C. match was a
batsman’s delight and a bowler’s
despair. Winning the toss, N.S.W.
batted first, and might well have still
been going had not Morris closed at
three for 509 on Saturday afternoon.
Of this mammoth tally Miller con-
tributed 214 and Morris 168. M.C.C.,
in reply, had lost one for 92 at
stumps.
* * * *
If nothiqg else, the Billy Peters
(10.1) v. Billy Lord (10,5) bout at
Leichhardt last week was as willing a
scrap as could be seen. In the sixth
round it looked to be simply a matter
of which boy would first collapse
from sheer exhaustion. Superior
poundage, plus the wiles engendered
by experience, eventually won the
bout for Lord in the 11th round.
DONE AGAIN!
Again is the Cup with its phantasies
over,
Again have we “busted” and “did
in” our “quid”
On “dark’uns,” on “lavender,”
“velvet” and “clover,”
Again have we been most delight-
fully “did.”
We’ve argued and quarrelled re
“morals” and “dead’uns”
And listened with awe to the fiend
in the street
Whose repertoire chiefly consisted of
“red’uns”
With the wheezy finale, “Thanks,
mine’s whisky, neat.”
We’ve cursed till the welkin is blue
with profanity,
We’ve hurled at the tipsters much
“language” insane;
Of course, Ikey Moses’ chief trait is
inanity,
But, somehow, he seems to have
“got there” again.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—*—recommended (or shearing-shed work.
i —~ — mt.
6
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
ißw'
Telegrams;
“Esdailson,”
Sydney.
BW 8631.
Esdcsile's 2\ X
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT. £l6/5/-
• Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system-
« Optical Parts TO
mounted, sulta^l e
highest power rifles-
• Very long eye reflet-
• Easily mounted.
Specifications:
tion 21«-Ey?„ r 'S f 7 S,
to 54m. Exit p u P *. 4^
—Relative luminosx y
Field of view 23*tt- P
100 yards.
ƒ
f
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Merinos and Pastures.
“Muton”: Not long ago sheep-
owners were being advised to
abandon Merinos in favor of
crossbreds on improved pas-
tures. The chief argument was
that crossbreds thrived better
and were not nearly as prone to
footrot and internal parasites.
Crossbreds are by no means
immune to these troubles.
Like others, I did not agree
with this advice, and still favor
Merinos in most districts where
pasture-development has been
extensively practised.
However, experience has
taught most of us that the
strong - woolled type that is
mainly produced in South Aus-
tralia’s mid-northern areas is
not the type of Merino to keep
on very heavy pasture. They
thrive well enough and develop
big frames, but as a rule their
wool does not retain its style
and character.
But—and this is an important
point—the medium-woolled type
such as the Peppin strain, with
stylish 64’s wool, does retain its
stylish wool, and, what is more,
will cut heavy fleece weights
under improved heavy pasture
conditions.
Recently a line of wether
weaners was sold at auction and
made £5 per head. The ewes
that produced them cut £5-worth
of wool. A record not kept
of what wool the weaners cut,
but the owner considered that
it was not less than £1 per head,
thus showing a return of £ll
from these ewes. They were run
on heavily-improved pastures.
Another factor is that Merinos
are not nearly such heavy
feeders as crossbreds, and it is
safe to state that at least 120
Merinos would thrive where 100
crossbreds would have difficulty
in getting a living.
Dips and Dipping.
“A.M.M.”: Power-sprays are
here to stay—a boon in labor
shortages and a saving of wear
and tear on operators and stock
alike. But the demand is greater
than the supply. If the old
plunge-dip is still sound it can
be used as a reservoir for the
spray unit, and with a few altera-
tions the existing yards can also
often be utilised. Installation of
the shower units is a relatively
simple job, and if the owner de-
sires he can dismantle the dip
after operations.
On smaller properties the
spray-dip is ideal, but big hold-
ings would probably benefit by
having one of each type. Lambs
and weaners could be put
through the bath and older stock
through the shower. Two sizes
are available in shower-dips, the
smaller ones holding about 30
sheep and the larger 60. A
thousand sheep an hour can
easily be put through the larger
model without any knocking
about and without “half-doing”
the job. Thorough wetting is
readily obtained, the usual
method being that the top and
bottom sprays are turned on
alternately for a minute each. It
is important not to reduce these
periods if the job is to be done
properly.
Any type of dipping prepara-
tion can be used in the spray-
dip, but bluestone should not be
put through the metal pipes. Ex-
periments using B.H.C. have
been conducted with these units
for jetting purposes, and,
although results were reasonably
good, the amount of fluid re-
quired per sheep to obtain a
satisfactory wetting made the
idea economically unsound.
Further experiments are being
undertaken, using a different
type of spray nozzle which will
give a fine mist spray. This is
being tried on the theory that a
fine mist wjll give the same pro-
tection against restrike as is
obtained by ordinary jetting
methods.
Pasture Research for Beef.
“Outback”: Trials in America
have shown that when soil is
deficient in certain qualities,
such as phosphorus, grass will
grow but does not provide a
balanced ration for beef cattle.
In one case weaning beef heifers
were grazed for two years on
phosphorus-deficient soil. Some
of them were fed a supple-
mentary ration of dicalcium
phosphate, amounting to 261 b.
per head over the period. These
heifers averaged 1661 b. heavier
than the others. The phosphate
cost a little over one dollar per
head.
Research in Queensland is
showing that more and more
the mineral content of the soil
has an important bearing on how
much profit a breeder or fattener
will make from the grass avail-
able.
The value of phaseolus is a
case in point. In some parts of
the State farmers say cattle like
it; others say cattle will not
eat it. Similarly with Rhodes-
grass. On some parts of the
North Coast this is by-passed by
cattle, and yet in districts like
the South Burnett is selectively
grazed. Research-workers are
now endeavoring to ascertain
why such grasses appear to be
more palatable to stock in one
district than another. The ob-
vious answer seems to lie in the
soil itself. This grazing prefer-
ence is often shown on a single
property, where cattle or sheep
will graze one part of a pad-
dock and leave another un-
touched.
A Rustless Oat.
“Agric”: Mrs. A. H. Cribb, of
Gayndah (Q.), reports that
Bligh’s No. 2 rust-resistant oat
has given astonishing results
during this prolonged wet sea-
son. The worst effect of the ex-
cessive rain in the district was
the general rusting of oats relied
upon for winter grazing.
Earlier in the year, however,
the Gayndah Co-operative Dairy
Association, Ltd., obtained 20
bags of Bligh’s No. 2, and Mrs.
Cribb and her husband planted
12 bags of these by way of a
trial. F. S, Petersen (Wetheron)
and M. Shelley (Binjour) planted
the balance.
The manager of the Dairy
Association has stated that
Petersen and Shelley support the
claim by Mrs. Cribb that Bligh’s
No. 2 is free of rust, both on
stem and leaf, and is a prolific
grower. The seed was sown on
May 19, and on July 8, when the
crop was 3ft. high, and some
stools comprised 22 stalks,
examination under a microscope
failed to detect any sign of rust.
The Gayndah factory has
ordered 100 bags of seed for
distribution next season.
Bligh’s No. 2 is named after
W. G. Bligh, of Brookstead, on
the Darling Downs, and reports
from the Downs confirm the
claims from Gayndah district.
Bligh obtained seed of the Vic-
toria and Advocate varieties
from the N.S.W. Department of
“Quick, Mat! Stop that flamin' gramophone."
Agriculture, and Bligh’s No. 2
rust-resistant is the hybrid he
developed from these earlier
varieties.
Rubber Tyres.
“Beau Forte”: Pneumatic-
tyres on vehicles allow about a
50 per cent, increase in the load.
In addition, because smaller-
diameter wheels can be used
compared with steel wheels,
farmers don’t have to lift loads
so high.
In one case when a horse-
drawn lorry was converted from
steel wheels to pneumatics, the
horses old-stagers put their
shoulders into the collars as
usual to start the load and went
to their knees because it moved
so easily. It was found that the
four-ton load could be increased
to six tons.
Increases of even greater pro-
portions are also noticeable on
wheelbarrows fitted with air
tyres.
Storing Seeds.
“A-Jay”: Cereal grain will
retain almost maximum ger-
minating ability for two or three
years after harvesting if stored
in a dry, well-ventilated barn.
However, from then on the
ability steadily declines, and,
after about ten years’ storage,
very few grains have the power
of germination.
If grain is stored in an air-
tight silo only poor germination
can be expected after about 12
months’ storage. When placed
in a silo in bags, thus allow-
ing some penetration of air
throughout the stack, the chances
are better.
Most grass-seeds lose their
germinating-power after about
three seasons, but clovers retain
their life for a long time.
Lucerne-seed is capable of some-
thing like a 50 per cent, ger-
mination even after being stored
about 10 years.
Farmers’ Classes.
“Myrrhee”: Short courses in
farm- and home-subjects are
offered Victorian farmers, their
wives and families by the De-
partment of Agriculture. The
courses will cost £2 ss. per week,
covering tuition, board, lodging
and laundry. For ex-servicemen
who have been classified as suit-
able for land-settlement the
courses are free, with a weekly
allowance thrown in. Courses
offered include dairying and pig-
raising, four weeks; sheep hus-
bandry and wool-classing, four
weeks; tractors and farm
machinery, two weeks ; soil-con-
servation and land-utilisation,
two weeks; young farmers’
course, two weeks, and a
countrywomen’s course, two
weeks.
The longer courses include
tuition in farm management and
farm bookkeeping. Success of
the courses, says the depart-
ment, will depend on the
response of farmers and farm
organisations.
Orchard Windbreaks.
“Rooster”: Though sprays
for the prevention of pre-
harvest fruitfall have, to a cer-
tain extent, reduced losses, wind
effects on unprotected orchards
include limb- and leaf-rub, dis-
tortion, damage to foliage and
damage by fierce hot or cold
winds. A well-sheltered orchard
means uniform, well - shaped
trees, thriving on the obvious
advantages.
An effective windbreak will
reduce evaporation from the
surface-soil and transpiration
from leaves during a hot
northerly. It’s also a big asset
when spraying is required ; high
winds make efficient spraying
impossible.
Closely - planted windbreaks,
however, create still-air condi-
tions conducive to fungus
diseases in apples, pears and
stone-fruits. A dense windbreak
across the lower portion of an
orchard may act as a stopper to
air-flow, banking up the cold
air and increasing the chances
of frost damage.
The influence of a break, say,
30ft. in height, extends hori-
zontally for 100yds. on flat
ground. Thus, in an exposed
situation, it’s better to have a
series of breaks with medium
density than only one very dense
belt. In most parts of Victoria
cold southerlies or south-
westerlies are the cause of most
damage, though in the north
protection from hot northerlies
would have to be considered,
especially for citrus - trees!
Easterly winds are rare.
Rosellas for Jam.
“Wilco”: The rosella plant
will grow well in coastal Queens-
land and N.S.W., and is not
much troubled by disease or
pests.
Sow the seed in a small bed
and transplant the seedlings 3ft.
apart each way in December or
January. The bush will grow in
almost any soil except tough
clays. Provide good drainage,
as the bushes will be growing
throughout the wet season.
Bearing starts in April or
May, a second crop being borne
if the first is properly harvested.
The rosellas are ready to pick
when the green seed-cases are
•about as thick as the top of one’s
thumb. They will snap off
readily when young, but must be
cut off with a knife when old.
The second crop is largely
ruined if the first crop has to be
cut per knife. The jam made
from old rosellas also lacks the
quality and flavor of that made
from young fruits.
Danger in Datiora.
“W. Court”: Thornapple,
Jimson-weed and stramonium
are common names for plants of
the Datiora family, all poisonous
and pests of sown pastures in
Queensland.
Seed is usually brought m
with millet, canary- and prairie-
grass and sorghum. The seeds
of the various kinds of Datiora
vary greatly in size, but are all
pitted and rough, and the colors
are dull yellow, brown or grey.
If sorghum-seed containing
Datiora is fed to stock or
poultry deaths are likely.
The plants are unattractive
and coarse-leaved, with an un-
pleasant odor. Stock will not
touch them unless the pasture
has been flogged down by over-
stocking, but sometimes they are
cut with the grass and put
through the chaff-cutter.
Try hormone weedicides on a
few plants and observe the re-
sults before spraying large
areas. Some are resistant to
hormone-killers and must be
attacked with poisons or the
brusher.
Crop-binding.
“D.L.M.”: Food is the main
cause of crop-binding, and the
results can be serious—birds
have killed themselves by pick-
ing at their breasts until they
bled to death. . ,
Usually the food-supply isni
enough and the birds get °
some coarse stuff such as whea
husks or weeds or grass clip-
pings. Dry or unground rations
without a supply of water c
cause binding. A
Give a little warm water an
salad-oil and work the crop wi
the fingers to loosen the cong
tion. If it is bad make an in-
cision in the lower part
crop, clear the substance out ana
then stitch with cotton, ta J: J
care to sew the crop an
the outer skin separately.
Birds that persist m P lc g
their breasts should have


Always keep
a bottle in
the home • • .
c*
as
&
&
oV?V *o
N.B.W.
DISTRIBUTORS
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
TST.fi.IS
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
IQ
HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Hannover Trade Fair
GERMANY, 1951
The Best in German Production
Light Industries Fair
February 28 to March 4
Heavy Industries Fair
April 29 to May 8
Australian Office: P.O. Box 1273, Melbourne
HOW TO SAVE PETROL
AND IMPROVE ENGINE PERFORMANCE
. effect worth-while petrol
new power to climb
In top gear; new
Mbffffy to throttle down in
n a i* lc w ffh°ut “clutch-riding”;
speec} °t which you never
your car capable; new
agency to give “smooth-as-
-O nL, operation and complete
n,i? Pus “°n to prevent engine
- ar - ordinarily caused by
WA’ wumaruy caused oy
E]pof« carbon > you need a British
iuvov, 1 ?" ener § ise r! An ingenious
2 tlo n which is saving
* and trouble for many
motorists. Can be speedily in-
stalled WITHOUT TOOLS and
fits all Internal combustion en-
gines except Ford V 8 and those
with magneto ignition.
THE AUSTRALIAN CON-
TROLLERS HAVE SET ASIDE
ONE THOUSAND FOR FREE
DISTRIBUTION ON ONE
CONDITION, THE OBJEC-
TIVE BEING TO FURTHER
POPULARISE THIS VALU-
ABLE MOTOR AID.
If you wish to save petrol and
improve engine performance,
tear out this announcement,
attach name and address, and
post today. This will place you
under no obligation.
H. W. ROBINSON
Turramurra, N.S.W.
Bui. 16/U/’6O
BUSCH
DIRECT CURRENT
MOTORS
i A and \ Horse Power
Voltages 32, 50, 110 and 240
Solid base or Resilient Mountings (if
for washing machines, state make;.
Guaranteed 12 Months.
Obtainable through local electrical
or hardware stores, or communicate
with N.S.W. Distributors:
drysdale electric
pty. Dtd.
165 Clarence St., Sydney.
’Phone: BX 3646.
PROVED IN USE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
ELASTRATOR
(Regd. Trade Mark)
CASTRATOR AND JAILER
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
125 William Street, Melbourne EL.I2
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
FOR AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for (a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY;
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of
residence at St. John’s College and an allowance of np to £lO per annum,
payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
or (b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £BO per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under
the Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are
insufficient to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science and must
satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the University of Sydney,
or of Entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later
than the Bth January, 1951, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the
Hawkesbury Agricultural College and not later than the sth February,
1951, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney), and
further particulars may be obtained from: —
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
■ Phenovit ” Worm Remedy
V
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
d
ICI
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-8191
MODERN
SANITATION
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
m
to
THE HYGEIA UISSOLVENATOR
(Complete self-contained sanitary system)
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING
NO WATER SUPPLY
NECESSARY
slllfliil
ANY HANDYMAN CAN INSTAL IT
Sewage material is chemically transformed into a
sterile solution that runs away into the soil.
HYCEIA SANITARY GO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 22 years
Write for free illustrated pamphlet
-DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolveriator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Ooulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q'land), 609 Colonial Mutual B g.
Queen St., Brisbane. , _
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Yic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., H .
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment 9 Build g,
Rundle St., Adelaide. c . p ..
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Penn.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
crops bandaged lightly and their
legs tied for five or six hours
until the treatment takes effect,
~
Strips and Contour.
“Ngaduri”: Not only do strip-
cropping and contour-plough-
ing help in erosion-control, but
they have made available
for pasture - improvement and
cereal-growing much land which
farmers would not dare crop
previously. On our 250 acres
of hilly land, and very little flat
which can safely be square-
ploughed, we have found that
there is very little land which
cannot be improved if sensibly
managed.
For example, a 40-acre pad-
dock is on a slope which has
one deep gully down the centre
with a new dam about half-way
up. First year a chain-wide strip
all round the paddock was sown
with Phalaris (the best here for
holding the soil) as a permanent
pasture strip. Contours were
marked out across all the slopes,
and these were ploughed with a
single furrow very deep. The
furrows were then sown with
Phalaris and, in wetter patches,
strawberry-clover. The furrows
overlapped alternately, one
reaching to the edge of the pas-
ture strip, which drained the
water to the outside of the pad-
dock; the next went to the
fence and drained the water
slowly back to the centre,
Eventually one contour be-
came a drain into the dam, and
the overflow from the dam be-
came a contour taking excess
water to the pasture strip. This
much in the first year. Next
year the paddock was green-
ploughed after heavy stocking
between alternate furrows. It
was twice combined—first with
wheat for hay at a depth of 2in.
and then with perennial rye-
grass and lucerne with the hoses
trailing and a chain behind,
This pasture was not fed off in
the first year, was harrowed with
the first rain and was well estab-
lished when the alternate strips
were green-ploughed and sown
with perennial veldt-grass and
sub.-clover and wheat in the
same fashion,
Now, without losing any top-
soil, we have established in a
very hilly paddock a wide
variety of grasses and legumes
to give sheep and cattle a bal-
anced diet, and we have a con-
siderable quantity of hay for
hand-feeding the milkers. By
the time we have completed the
whole property in this manner
it will then be time to sow the
strips in this paddock again.
Hints for the Farm.
“Rooster”: Production of
thin-shelled and soft-shelled eggs
may be due to any one of a
number of causes, but calcium
deficiency is the most common.
The tendency may also be
inherited. It will lessen the
possibility of this particular
trouble if chickens are bred
from sound fowls. Give them
an adequate ration with plenty
of green-feed and shellgrit. Pro-
vide scratching litter and give
the birds plenty of room to exer-
cise.
“My”: Victorian Department
of Agriculture experiments show
that two or three sprays of
D.D.T. at half-strength (.05 per
cent.), plus lead arsenate, 31b. of
powder to lOOgal. of water, are
effective in controlling both cod-
lin- and light-brown apple-moth
in Goulburn Valley orchards.
Researchers found that this com-
bination gave excellent control
on pears when applied in early
November and early December.
Late-maturing apples and pears
need a third spray late in
January and early in February.
If bryobia-mite or red-spider
appears add parathion (E 605) to
the mixture, strength .0075 per
cent. Follow manufacturers’
recommendations, as strengths
of the different brands may vary.
“Sarina”: Ticks on the house
cow can be kept down by spray-
ing her with a 2 per cent.
D.D.T. emulsion whenever she
shows ticks. Emulsion should
be freshly mixed, and at the
strength mentioned will pass
through a household fly-sprayer.
Halve it if spraying is to be
done with a spray-pump.
“C.A.A.”: Dry litter is essen-
tial in the poultry pen, and if a
sufficient amount is used it need
be replaced only three times a
year October, January and
April. The more litter used the
greater incentive the birds have
to scratch and dust themselves,
so keeping free of lice. When
replacement becomes due retain
dry pulverised litter even
although it contains a heavy
concentration of excreta.
Hydrated lime is valuable in pro-
longed wet weather for keeping
the litter in a satisfactory con-
dition.
“Bill C.”: One of the quickest
ways of establishing a line of
fire to burn back towards an
oncoming blaze is to drive a
truck steadily along the road,
dragging behind an ignited tyre.
A couple of men should follow
with beaters to stop the fire
crossing the road or break.
“Sundowner”: Interplanting
of apple- and peach-trees in the
orchard, often adopted when
new blocks are being developed
to give early returns, has some-
thing to recommend it. When
peach-trees fail the apples will
usually produce a crop.
“Billjim”: Where cattle are
being grazed in thistle-infested
paddocks see that hay and
other feed is on hand to guard
against thistle-poisoning.
“Sam”: Yes, “S.G.” (B
1/11/’5O), a fertile double-yolk
egg can produce two chickens.
A duckling was not successful in
chipping the shell and I found
two in it when I assisted, but one
was dead. The germ-cell is
attached to the yolk, and in the
case of a double-yolk egg it is
unlikely that only one would be
fertile.


. .' :: - ‘ :
There's
n 0 friend
[ike an o
friend !
wm
mb.
iCOTUMD
(T) CalUim's
Scots Cilhisky
fovH&efe *©*) » **»««
The home is«
(IKhlUun’s
The Luhiskij is_
(fynfeo3>
"HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM"
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry,
Horses, Fruit and Vegetable Growing, the
Apiary and General Farm Activity.
PRICE ONE SHILLING
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney; 24T Collins St., Melbourne.
Read what Mr. i. A. Hausler of Queensland says about Yauxhall
“. . . cannot understand anybody wanting
to pay a higher price jor less motor-car”.
His letter is one of scores which are full of similar
enthusiastic opinions about Yauxhall 12 h.p.
Wyvem and 18 h.p. Velox.
fds
For example, Mr. R. W. Chard of Maitland,
S.A., Writes: “. . . am satisfied that the
Velox Sedan ... is the best investment . . .
in initial cost running expenses and per-
formance.”
Mr. Norpt. Brimson of Kingaroy, Q'ld.,
writes of his Wyvern “. . . The comfort
and ease of handling has particularly ap-
pealed to me . . .”
Mr. H. F. Wadds of Port Kembla, N.5.W..,
says: “The Velox has a definite big cat per-
formance at an economical running cost.. .**
And Mr. R. F. Tilley of Glen Iris, Vic., says
of his Velox : “ ... in places where other
cars were in second gear I was able to remain
in top for much longer . . .**
CHECK THESE
ADVANTAGES
The 4 cyl. 12 h.p. O.H.Y.
Vauxhall Wyvern gives you:-
• Cruising speed of SOm.p.h.
• Top speed of 60-65 nt.p.h.
• Owners report up to 35
m.p.g.
The 6 cyl. 18 h.p. O.H.Y.
Vauxhall Velox gives:—
• Cruising speed of 60m.p.h.
• Top speed of at least 75
nt.p.h.
• Up to 28m.p.g. as reported
by owners.
Both Vauxhall models have:-
• Independent
Front-wheel
suspension.
• 6-phase
“ economy ”
carburation.
VAUXHALIi
is praised hy
owners, the length and breadth of Australia .
H 0 h.V.
nhf*S' a ' hp - ~
ISS»XW>P- r £0» 5
Tli “ tß^ o H.V.
IS h-P-fS*
* M Tt f* 50
SU <£?& *-$s
", , Jtbet
i:iSoo»j- ,£« s
price* P' u * sa '
m
WM
Wi
ift
v
Enquire about the
“Air Chief” built-for-
Yauxhall radio—also
the convenient G.M.
A.C. purchase plan.
A General Motors’ Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE - SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
Sold and urviced by Vauxball deakri throughout Australia.
VI3/24
The HOLE-DIGGER
By OLIVER FILTER
ONE of my uncles —Uncle
Joe was a confirmed
hole - digger. I don’t
know why he liked dig-
ging them —possibly it was some
form of frustration, or a rever-
sion to childhood’s love of
sandpits, or even a manifesta-
tion of that universal curiosity
evinced over men digging any
kind of hole —the only explana-
tion he ever gave was the un-
answerable “I like doing it.”
No doubt a psychiatrist would
have explained his obsession, but
we didn’t have psychiatrists in
those days, or, at least, we’d
never heard of them. So Uncle
Joe was just a man who liked
digging holes; a small, sandy-
haired man with a wrinkled
brown face, a big nose and shy
brown eyes which he seemed to
raise only very reluctantly to
look at anyone or anything.
His wife, Aunt Martha, on the
other hand, hated holes, for ob-
vious reasons. There may have
been deeper currents to her
hatred —possibly, without realis-
ing how convenient it was
always to know that your hus-
band was “out the back some-
where digging a hole,” she felt
that Joe was trying to escape
from her as moles, echidnas and
other timid diggers escape from
the noises and terrors of day-
light, At any rate. Aunt Martha
buzzed around our place like a
small grey wasp looking for
someone to sting, and Uncle Joe
kept out of her way down what-
ever hole he happened to be
digging at the moment.
His penchant for digging holes
first showed itself about a week
after he and his wife came to
stay with us —they were pen-
sioners, except that Aunt
Martha had a small fixed income
of five shillings a week, which
affluence she seemed to con-
sider made it very plain that he
could not support her, that she
was infinitely superior to him
and that she was, in fact, prac-
tically his sole means of sup-
port.
About a week after they had
arrived and settled into the
spare room my mother came in
from the backyard one day and
said “Thank you, Joseph, for
digging me such a nice garb-
age-pit.”
Uncle Joe, with a kind of
gentle firmness that denied argu-
ment, said “That hole’s not for
rubbish. I’m experimenting
with”
Before he could finish Aunt
Martha cut in: “Joseph, I told
you before we came here that
you weren’t to dig any more of
your wretched holes.”
She turned to Mother with a
mixture of anger and despair:
“We had to leave the last place
after Joseph had undermined
the foundations of the laundry;
at the place before that he cut
through the water-pipes ; and at
the one before that the night-
man broke his leg when he fell
down one of Joseph’s holes near
the back of the lavatory.”
She swung back to her hus-
band, but he was on his way out.
The pair of them disappeared
into their room, whence came
for half an hour the thin, busy
murmur of Aunt Martha’s voice.
DUT Uncle Joe kept on dig-
ging. Mother, once she
knew of his obsession, treated
him with the respect that simple
souls always accord “queer
people,” while Aunt Martha’s
verbal attacks only drove him
deeper, as it were.
His first hole at our place was
a simple rectangular affair about
ten feet deep. The next was a
square. He marked out the area
very neatly with pegs and string
and checked his right-angles by
the old three-four-five method
he had learned from a builder.
Then he started digging, not
hurriedly, but just shovelling
away very slowly and stopping
frequently to plumb the sides
and check the square as he went
down.
Then Uncle Joe’s rectangular
and square holes became things
of memory, and were slowly
filled in with rubbish as he went
from round holes to oval holes
to triangular holes, and even to a
tunnel, which he abandoned
when the garden-bed above it
began to subside. Then, after a
good deal of thought and sketch-
ing and marking-out, he em-
barked on his greatest work —a
square hole, but dug in six-foot
steps so that he could go deeper
than ever before. His idea was
to dig a hole six feet deep ; then
dig another beside it and six
feet deeper, the earth from the
second being thrown into the
first and from there to the sur-
face.
At the end of three months
Uncle Joe was about half-way
down to the fourth step —about
twenty-two feet —and very nice
it looked with the sides as
smooth as the walls of a room
and the three big steps looking
as though they had been
chiselled out of stone instead of
firm yellow sand.
[T was unfortunate that the
\ accident should have happened
during the school holidays, when
there were so many children
around to add to the noise and
excitement and thus to Uncle
Joe’s embarrassment. The
moment the hole collapsed and
I could see only his head above
the tumbled earth looking up at
me I started to yell vociferously
for help. My cries brought not
only my mother and Aunt
Martha, but at least 20 children
from near-by homes; all fol-
lowed by their parents, anxious
to know what the fuss was
about, and, once they found
out, doubly anxious to see that
their children did not fall down
the hole after, and on ton of
Uncle Joe.
Somewhere amid the excited
shouts of children and the scold-
ing of parents someone rang
both the police and fire-brigade,
one of which also rang a doc-
tor. With commendable speed
the three institutions arrived
within ten minutes, and with the
same effect on the district that
a heavy foot has on an ant-
heap. People must have come
from half a mile away to see
what it was all about, to proffer
advice, to tramp all over the
garden and to run in and out of
the house. The noise was stilled
as the firemen brought in a
ladder, laid it across the hole
and tied a rope to one of the
runs. Two firemen slid down
the rope, dug out Uncle Joe and
assisted him to the surface,
where, from his anxiety to
escape the doctor’s examination
and the curiosity of the crowd,
he seemed none the worse for
his experience. Mother and
Aunt Martha went inside with
him ; the doctor, police and fire-
brigade left, followed by most
of the children, and the adults
wandered slowly back to their
homes, seemingly disappointed.
But that was the end of
Uncle Joe’s holes. It wasn’t the
experience of being buried and
nearly suffocated that stopped
him ; it was simply that he was
terrified of ever making such a
public spectacle of himself
again. Once or twice he tenta-
tively marked out a suitable
area, but a new worry had come
into his life. In an incautious
moment he had remarked, in his
wife’s hearing, that he would be
glad when he was dead ana
buried.
And Aunt Martha had replied
maliciously “You’ll never be
buried, Joseph ; I shall hav
your body cremated. I ve P u
up with so much from you an
your holes that I couldn’t bear
the thought of your being bunco
in one.”
THEREAFTER Uncle Jo®
J seemed to have but one
ject in life: to outlive his wite
so that he could ensure tha
would be buried in a d ee P> .
hole when be died.
Martha, in turn, sensed his o
termination and joined
wtih him, firmly intending “
she would be the last to g •
they grew older they spent m
of their time in cane chai
the sun on the front veranda
reading, dozing or w
each other. Sometimes an d
the other would fall ,s S eP ctart.
awake with a t h t he
Sometimes one would watcn
other sleeping and wonder.
The neighbors used to
wasn’t it lovely to se
couple so devoted to ea
in their twilight. ,
They both clung tenaci
to lit/ to a very toe °U
Aunt Martha died io
went to sleep very pc uncle
the sun and didn t wak • {ol .
Joe, relieved and contend q£
lowed her within a P d
days, and theres f £ a %Id
in the district about th h 0
couple and the wife,
couldn’t live without his
They were, incidentally,
together in the one grave.


Established XB6S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Skipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOISi 4
05UMJVAX
pnm
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
tired feet?
Hot. tired feet need
the famous —*/'"7 I
trio. C
r
Rupture
Sufferers—try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
Ouaranteed, no matter where you live.
Call or send stamp for
FREE details, self-measure-
FREE
>nent form and U days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
w
*
Now Is the time for all good men
to come to the aid of the Country
TIME was when Australians could
watch the course of world events as
onlookers with the detached viewpoint
natural in a country whose security was
guaranteed by its isolation, thousands
of miles from any source of enemy
attack.
In two world wars we were able to play
our part in defending Australia and the
cause of freedom only because we were
allowed a breathing space in which to
build up our armed forces and our
basic war-time industries. There will be
no breathing space next time.
But, if we Australians and all the free
peoples who are still able to oppose the
Communist menace co-operate fully and
give unmistakable evidence of our
united strength, we may yet ward off
a third world war.
Security depends on our
united effort
To play our part in this vital task, we
must build up our defence forces with
alert, versatile Australians, trained and
equipped with the most modem tools,
instruments, weapons, ships and air-
craft.
We must step up our production to
provide sufficient supplies and equip-
ment to maintain a Navy, an Army and
an Air Force at effective fighting
strength, whilst preserving our standard
of living.
We must prepare, to the limit of our
resources, to meet aggression, wherever
it may arise.
Your personal contribution
—Enlist if you can in the Navy,
Army or Air Force for full or
part-time service.
Work with a conscious effort to
increase production.
By your own example, promote
harmonious co-operation on
every level in every industry.
The fate and future of Australia are fa your
P
sps
P II
YOU!
hands
Government of the Commonwealth of Australia
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Small quantity of seeds of Mexican
passionfruit (Passiflora Ugularia).-
Tn huv copy of Saltbush Bill, J.P.,
and Other Verses by A. B. Paterson.—
To buy copy of The Adventures of
the Grey Seal. —4950.
To buy or exchange Steele Rudd s
On Our Selection Grandpas Selec-
tion and Sandy s Selection for The
Bulletin Reciter and The Bulletin
Book of Humorous Verse and Recita-
tions. —4948.
Words of verses “Who Keeps the
Pub in Sydney Now” and That Day
at Boiling Downs. —4949.
To buy copy of Maggie: A Girl of
the Streets by Stephen Crane.—4953.
Does Anybody Know?
How to break a cat from the habit
of catching birds? —4947.
Information Sought.
What is Mass Observation?
The systematic study of social
habits and conditions by means of
applying the techniques of anthro-
pological research to modern highly-
civilised societies. The term has
gained currency by being given to a
new type of social-research organisa-
tion founded by Tom Harrisson and
Charles Madge in 1938, with head-
quarters in London. Harrisson, the
author of Savage Civilisation, had
spent a number of years studying
the primitive peoples of Central
Borneo and the New Hebrides, and
on his return to England he deter-
mined to apply similar methods of
field-work to the study of the people
of his own country. The scientific
observation and recording of the
habits and conditions of life of a
modern community as a basis for
sociological planning had been de-
veloped on the Continent and in the
U.S.A., and Harrisson’s conception
of Mass Observation gave an impetus
to a similar movement in the United
Kingdom. See T. Harrisson’s Mass
Observation (1937) and Britain by
Mass Observation (1939).
* * * •
Particulars of short-story competi-
tion being conducted by the
“Ballarat Courier” as a feature of the
Ballarat gold-centenary celebrations
programme for 1951 ?
The contest, which is open to
authors living in Australia, is for an
original, hitherto unpublished story
not exceeding 2500 words, to be
judged by author Alan Marshall.
First prize is £SO, second £25, third
£ls, fourth £lO. Competitors may
submit any number of entries. All
stories must bear a pen-name only,
the competitor’s name and address
being enclosed in a sealed envelope
which will not be opened until judg-
ing is completed. The “Courier”
reserves the right to publish any or
all of the winning stories, and to
publish any story submitted at the
ordinary publication rates. Entries
will close on December 31, 1950, and
the winners announced on or before
January 31, 1951. All stories should
be typed and addressed to the short-
story editor, £IOO short-story compe-
tition, the “Courier,” 24 Sturt-street,
Ballarat.
Some details about Liam O’Flaherty,
the Irish writer?
Liam O’Flaherty was born in the
Arran Islands, Ireland, in 1897, and
was educated at the National Univer-
sity, Dublin. He served with the
Irish Guards during World War I;
after being invalided out he took part
in the Irish revolution of 1917. After
the war he entered _ the merchant
service and travelled widely. His first
novel, Thy Neighbour’s Wife, was
published in 1924, followed by The
Black Soul in 1925 and a volume
of short-stories, Spring Sowing, m
1926. With The Informer and Mr.
Gilhooley, novels of Dublin low life,
both published in 1926, he established
his reputation as a powerful realistic
writer, but the romantic side of his
nature found expression in his idyllic
short-stories, many of which were
descriptive of life in the Arran
Islands. Other novels include The
Martyr (1927), The Assassin (1928),
The House of Gold (1929), The
Puritan (1932), Hollywood Cemetery
(1935), Famine (1937), a novel of the
potato famine of 1846, and Land
(1946), an adventure of the Fenian
rebels. Two. Years (1930), / Went to
Russia (1931) and Shame the Devil
(1934) are autobiographical books.
* * * *
What are overhead charges in
business ?
Also described as “indirect ex-
penses,” “oncost,” “establishment
charges,” “burden,” etc., they are
those business expenses, such as rent,
management, salaries, bookkeeping,
accountancy and interest on loans,
which cannot be directly arrived at
in a particular piece of work and are
usually provided for by a sufficient
amount being added to the other
charges to maintain the required
profit. Different expenses in business
fall under the description of over-
head charges or direct charges
according to the methods of the firm
and the nature of the work, e.g., the
wages of a man in the factory are a
direct charge on the work done, while
the wages of a man in the warehouse
may be a charge on the business as
a whole.
* ♦ * •
What were ragged schools?
Institutions first begun by John
Pounds, a Portsmouth schoolmaster,
in 1820, which supplied free educa-
tion, and sometimes bodily necessities,
for destitute children. Some regard
Robert Raikes, who established the
first Sunday school at Gloucester in
1780, as the pioneer of the Ragged
Schools movement in England. In
Scotland Dr. Guthrie took steps in
the same direction in the middle of
the last century. After the founda-
tion of the Ragged School Union in
1844 by Lord Ashley, agencies for
the education of the poor, especially
children, became a permanent element
in English social life, but with the
introduction of free compulsory
education in 1870 the work of the
Ragged Schools lost their importance.
Brief Answers.
E.V.S.: A minimum of 40 gallons
of milk is recommended. With some
experience this may be cut to 25, or
even 20, gallons, hut it is considered
that such small quantities of milk
should be fed only by men with
experience of such feeding methods.
You are advised to commence on the
40-gallon scale and to reduce ihc
amount of milk as you gain ex-
perience. There are several proprietary
calf-meals on the market in Queens-
land, but all are a little deficient in
protein for very young calves, par-
ticularly if you try to raise calves
on smaller quantities of milk. It
would be advisable for you to make
your own calf-mixture or, alter-
natively, to have one specially pre-
pared by a local produce-merchant
or, possibly, by the Atherton Maize
Board J. 8.: (1) The National
Security Act, 1939, provided that the
punishment for an offence against the
Act should be: (a) If the offence was
prosecuted summarily (i.e., before a
magistrate) a fine not exceeding £IOO
or imprisonment for a term not ex-
ceeding six months or both; or ( b )
If the offence was prosecuted upon
indictment (i.e., before a judge and
jury) a fine of any amount or im-
prisonment for any term or both.
(2) A copy of the Act can be obtained
from the Commonwealth Government
Printer, Canberra, A.C .T M .K.:
Cause and treatment of disturbed
nerve-circulation are involved. With
simple injury the fault may be local-
ised, but degenerative changes in
nerve-trunk supply call for exact
diagnosis before treatment is pre-
scribed. See your doctor... .A.W.;
Estrogen is a synthetic chemical
hormone prepared in the laboratory.
It does not occur naturally, and is
not contained in foods as you sug-
gest. B.P. Stilboestrol is official
0.H.D.: Write Australian Workers’
Union, 238 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
V.O’G.: Write Workers’ Educa-
tional Association of N. S. Wales, St.
James’s Hall, Phillip-street, Sydney.
T.S.: Write Advances for Homes
Division, Rural Bank of N.S.W.,
Martin-place, Sydney G.S.: The
noun corresponding to the verb
“elapse” is now “lapse.” There is
nothing in the context of the sen-
tence in question to call for archaism.
T.P.F.: Write C’wealth Experi-
mental Building Station, Dept, of
Works and Housing, P.O. Box 30,
Chatswood (N.S.W.) for leaflet in
“The Science of Building” series
entitled “White Ants: Termite-
proofing of Buildings in Australia.”
P. McM.: Write W. Stone, Hon.
Secretary, Roderic Quinn Memorial
Fund, 12 Parnell-street, Strathfield
(N.S.W.).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
C.F.R.: No room for “high-grade
pianists” in our ’igh-class stories
L.H.; “Kathy”—police-court stuff.
S.A.H.-M.: Expanded anecdote.
Bellerive: Here’s to Winnie:
G.H.K.M.: Your characters were
all horn with silver plums in their
mouths W.R.: This is the second
time “Sentenced for Life” has come
before us. Appeal not allowed
C. 1.: Although it’s got “of a verity”
in it, it’s not a very well-rounded
essay... .C.M.D.; When the mate put
his arm tenderly round the captain’s
waist we nearly dropped our knitting.
....D.G.K.: We liked the bit about
the girl passing with “her head held
high like a dog sniffing the air”
R.C.: Your uninfectious laughter....
M.D.: Much too involved H.S.T.:
Well, it’s all over now T.F.: Yes,
yes; horrible, horrible... .C.R. A
most primitive essay... .R.C.: “The
System that Couldn’t Lose” has
managed it at last... .J.M.H.: No,
sir; short-story writers have stopped
going to heaven... .H.M.F.; Liked
the dialogue, but it doesn’t make a
story... .K.J.: No, sir; short-story
writers have stopped writing stories
about short-story writers 8.F.R.5.:
Fancy! A New Zealander! Striking
a woman! J. MacG.: Your train
doesn’t progress very easily
V.R.J.: Nice little studies, but in a
general way we’re not very keen on
animal antics A.0.N.: “The Un-
written Law” wasn’t a very well-
written story R.F.McP.: Hall-
baked F.N.J.: You’re forcing the
issue G.F.S.: It’s not enough to
have a good routine; you’ve got to
be able to carry it off J.R.:
“Message to School” just a little
too slight M.R.S.: Hardly makes
a story 8.K.; Afraid we hear
enough of the virtues of housewives
at home... .C.M.: There’s a story
in “Dud Crushing” somewhere, but
you haven’t found it.
In a reefer jacket
And a yachting cap,
Mr. Churchill looked
A cheerful old chap.
Always ready for
A scrap or a joke;
Young and old cheer
The wonderful old bloke.
Great veteran leader
Of love and great worth,
For England, dear England,
The land of he’s birth.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Training in Agriculture
The Federal council of the Liberal
party has resolved to urge the Govern-
ment to examine available facilities for
training rural specialists and research-
workers in universities and other educa-
tional institutions, such experts being
urgently needed if we are to get the most
from our land.
The council also decided to urge the
Government to have rural economics
figure more prominently in Australian
universities, noting that “ordinary
secondary education tends to incline
pupils away from primary production.”
That is not altogether fair to our educa-
tional system. The fault lies mainly with
parents of children commencing their
secondary schooling. They seem to have
a strong bias against agriculture being
included in the ordinary school cur-
riculum, mistakenly regarding it either
as a useless subject or as one that might
lead their young hopefuls into market-
gardening.
Agriculture is a full course for the
Leaving Certificate, and is accepted as a
matriculation subject for university. It
has a definite cultural and pre-vocational
value and, for those who specialise in it,
the opportunities are many and varied.
Professor H. R. Came, Dean of the
Faculty of Veterinary Science at Sydney
University, has revealed that, before the
war, such highly-developed countries as
Denmark and Holland had approximately
150 veterinarians to every million of live-
stock, England, France and Germany had
100 to every million, the U.S.A. 60,
Canada 40 and Australia —three!
Veterinary science is only one avenue of
education ; banking, commerce and agri-
culture are just a few of the others.
Agriculture is already taught in 70
schools throughout N. S. Wales, where the
normal course of study includes English,
mathematics, history and geography,
social studies apd sometimes French or
combined physics and chemistry.
The syllabus, which can be varied to
suit local conditions, consists of three
main sections —study of soils and their
management, cultivation of crops and
animal husbandry. Only five 40-minute
periods of a school week of 40 periods,
including three for organised sport, are
required, and in some instances agricul-
tural biology is studied for up to four of
the five periods. Instruction is given in
general biology, entomology, botany (with
special reference to the problems of
agriculture) and farm mechanics, taking
in metalwork, woodwork, concrete con-
struction and machinery maintenance.
Usually there is a certain amount of
the practical side, such as the working of
plots, to provide a background for class-
work, and trips are made to Government
experiment farms and private properties
to observe large areas of crops and live-
stock.
The policy of the Department of Edu-
cation is to establish courses, including
agriculture, wherever a real demand
exists. No definite number of pupils is
laid down, but obviously there must be
sufficient to warrant the appointment of
a specially-trained teacher ; shortage of
teachers was in itself a limiting factor
until recently. But until the prejudice
and apathy towards agriculture are wiped
from the minds of parents, Australia will
continue to remain deficient in people
technically trained to assist in the
improvement of our land. — Retired
Teacher (N.S.W.).
Shearers’ Conditions
The A.W.U. does its best to get good
conditions for rural workers, but it has
been handicapped in the case of station-
hands (B. 11/10/’5O) because they have
no union of their own, and, until lately, it
has been difficult to encourage them to
enrol in the A.W.U. I know at least one
station which will not employ a union
member.
It is, perhaps, not generally known that
Victoria had no Shearers’ Accommoda-
tion Act until a year ago, although such
an Act had been in force in the other
States for some time. Even so, condi-
tions are by no means always up to
standard in some places —union organisers
cannot be everywhere.
This year the shearing team walked out
of a shed in another State after a dispute
arose over accommodation and burry
sheep. The shearing-stands were danger-
ously close together, huts were below
standard (four men to a room) and the
kitchen water-supply was laid on from
a near-by dam in a swamp. There were
about 9000 sheep at the shed, the wool
cheque from which would be at least
£30,000. The sheep have now been
shorn, but it is too much to hope that the
owners will set aside any of the wool
cheque to improve the conditions for the
next team unless the union brings
pressure to bear. — Master Bevel (Vic.).
Pensioners
The plight of old-age pensioners whose
relatives have predeceased or forsaken
them, and who are compelled to spend the
remainder of their lives alone in dingy
tenements or outlying shacks, is, with
the cost of subsistence mounting day by
day, truly deplorable. At a time in their
lives when they need comfort they are
obliged to do with less and less.
The shack-dwellers may, in some ways,
be regarded as more fortunate than their
confreres who live in rooms. I say “in
some ways” because, of course, the
further out they have to go the higher
the fares, and, therefore, the greater the
isolation they are called upon to endure.
“The sooner you Write out those lines the sooner We both go home!"
Food costs more, too, in the outer suburbs
than in the city. On the other hand they
are enabled, provided their dwellings are
fenced with wire-netting or palings, to
grow vegetables and keep a few fowls,
which, these hard times, is an immense
advantage.
Their diet lacks variety, but they are
inured to that. Those who cook for
themselves —most if not all pensioners
leading a solitary existence do so—subsist
mainly upon soup, oatmeal porridge and
stew. They often have to do without
butter and jam, must perforce content
themselves with margarine and treacle,
or, every now and then, with dripping.
As regards clothes —not forgetting, of
course, that the rent must be paid—they
are dependent for them on the second-
hand shops where odd coats and trousers,
hats, shirts, underwear, socks and some-
times even shoes can be bought for a
few shillings.
As far as recreation is concerned, those
fond of reading or who have hobbies of
some kind are probably best off. A good
many are addicted to fishing, and when
they catch a fair-sized one it is
a great treat for the indigent can’t, at
its present price, afford to buy fish.
Bodkin (N.S.W.).
Food
That “Plain English” article (B.
13/9/’5O) making fun of the food-
reformers was amusing, but the jokes were
not justified by the facts. The shortage
of doctors, nurses and hospitals is actu-
ally a surplus of invalids.
Medical men and health authorities
generally agree that our standard of fit-
ness is tragically low, and that most of
our fleshly ills are due to the unwise
choice and consumption of food
and liquid refreshments. School dentists
deplore the condition of juvenile teeth.
The high proportion of Army volunteers
rejected as physically unfit is no laughing
matter. At a recent medical conference it
was stated that a third of our popula-
tion was receiving medical attention or
some kind. The astronomical sums spent
on patent nostrums, mostly nerve tonics
and purgatives, are evidence that while
we may enjoy the pleasures of the table
we don’t enjoy the after-effects.
The so-called faddists who condemn
white bread are no longer a despised
minority in civilised countries. The
English bakers are now compelled to pro-
duce a “coarser” loaf. American bakers
must restore the stolen vitamins to their
product. Only in Australia is it legal to
purvey “pure” starch as food, thereby
causing widespread malnutrition.
True, “men are not cows.” Certainly
they do not ruminate where fodder is
concerned. They consult their palates,
ignore the “complaints” of their
stomachs, and avert alimentary doom by
dosing themselves with nostrums and
pick-me-ups. —J.W. (S.A.).
The Two Romes
I agree with “Morris the Tinker” (B.
1 /11 / ’5O) that the barbarians can’t be
blamed for “putting out the lights of
Rpme and setting the world’s civilisation
back a thousand years.” But he doesn’t
say why—because the Romans had
already put out their own lights!
Most people still see in their mind a
glorious civilisation swamped by myriads
of ruthless, pitiless savages. Probably
the attackers were such savages, but they
were not in overwhelming numbers. Wells
says in his Outline of History : —
There was no popular uprising at all.
Everywhere the barbarians must have been
outnumbered if only the people had resisted.
But the people did not resist. It is manifest
that to the bulk of its inhabitants the
Roman Empire did not seem to be a thing
worth fighting for.
For a long while before its end Rome
had ceased to produce great works of art
and literature, and was not going ahead
in any direction. The main reasons for
its decline seem to have been a corrupt
bureaucracy and the policy (crushing
taxation was a feature of it) which led
to the destruction of the yeoman farmer
and independent artisan and the creation
of a society of slaves and unemployed
wasters.
The nations which later arose in
Europe, and in which a great art and cul-
ture once more appeared, were founded
in the main by the barbarians. Inci-
dentally, the Romans called all foreigners
“barbarians,” even the more cultivated
Greeks; and there is much in Rome’s
history which could justify us calling its
own inhabitants by the same name.
The East Roman empire, however, as
“M. the T.” says, maintained a high level
of culture throughout its history. J. B.
Bury, authority on the eastern empire,
emphasises that its cultural standard was
far higher than Western Europe’s.
(Nevertheless, its court annals are stained
with crime, and no other State has ever
been subject to lawless, looting mobs of
its own people as Byzantium was.)
It certainly did not deserve its fate.
But it wasn’t really the Turks who mur-
dered it—it was Western Europe. The
inroads of the Crusaders, who usually
fought the empire more zealously than
they did the heathen, did irreparable
harm; and Europe chose to ignore re-
peated appeals for help, even when the
end was very near.
There is not a more affecting story than
that told in Stefan Zweig’s short sketch
“The Conquest of Byzantium,” showing
vividly the heroism and despair of the
last hours, when it went down fightins
(8000 men against 150,000), left to its
doom by those who could have and
should have saved it. After its fall the
Turks became a serious danger to Europe
In these days of menace to the Western
world the fate of Byzantium must not be
allowed to fall upon any modern outpost
of civilisation. —K. R. (N.S.W.).
Wool-tax
Professor Copland’s scheme for an
export-tax on wool has been too un-
critically accepted. To date, high Gov-
ernmental income has always meant high
spending, with increases in file Public
Service. Have we any guarantee that the
present or future Treasurers will be
strong enough to reverse this trend?
A wool-tax will take money from
men who, having earned it with their
hands, are prudent and conservative
spenders. It will place that money in
the hands of those who have votes to
buy. In the long run it will prove an
inflationary measure. — Robert Howie
(W.A.).
Abolition of Local Authorities
A day will come when local authorities,
or at least country ones, will be abolished
and their functions taken over by the
Crown. Although the system started long
ago, it should be scrapped, and the earlier
the better. Too many councils consist of
men whose main qualifications lie in
tugging milk from Strawberry or yelling
“Shoo!” behind sheep. And too many
of them are there mainly for their own
or their employers’ interests.
There are many reasons why shire
clerks would welcome Government
control. They would, at least, feel secure
in their jobs and, incidentally, enjoy a
better social standing. At present, at
every election, the clerk’s sleep is dis-
turbed by visions of a new and possibly
hostile council. It is not right that
councillors should be able to worry a
good clerk out of his job because, say, he
voiced certain mild political opinions or
because he once wrote to Mrs. Kfoops
a sharp note re a dead goat in her back-
yard.
Governments should take control of
the shires and appoint good men to
manage the areas. In many cases they
could be the clerks as well, with suitable
staffs under their control. Local repre-
sentation could be satisfied by the
appointment of an advisory board —with
no guarantee that the advice would
always be adopted. The necessity for
roads and bridges would then be dealt
with as to merit, and the engineers and
suchlike experts could carry out their
jobs without being fooled about.—J. p-
(Q.).
Defence Rail
The last person to set up as an authority
on transport should be a Queenslan
politician, but Bruce Pie has got himsei
into the cables by advocating a tefsoc
“autobahn” stretching from Cooktown
to Melbourne. , „ ; n .
Australia’s defence does call . ±o r
finitely better internal communications,
but I’d class that idea as the silliest yer
The cost, not mentioned, would be
tastic —certainly not less than £2SOWJ"
—maintenance would be impossm e,
such a road running parallel to °
rail, sea and air routes would W
practically no economic valu ® bombers
In war-time, subject to , sneak bombeg
shefifire and raiding parties, it wouKi
as useless as similar lines of c . er ,
cation have proved in K° rea - re U ce i V ed
more, although the fact has no were
sufficient publicity, the autobahnen ,
so relatively useless that they jj ' rerma n
as a bombing target. It was the Germ
railways which had the highes P a
the railways which kept S fighter
rain of bombs until they lost
cover, the railways which P . a nd
finitely easier to repair unde r ~ t be
heavy traffic. Those facts should n
forgotten. cimn t v route
There’s only one useful s upp \ tenth
to the north which wouldn t pro-
- Mr. Pie’s idea, and thats th fj £ ora
posed by Harold Clapp. A throU gh
Bourke (N.S.W.) stretching
the far west of Queensland the
Darwin with connections be
Queensland laterals. £ orrn of
comparatively very safe firon y m 0U s
attack and it would have an en
economic value m &'
opposed by Queensland P £ rOol gris-
cause it might take traffic aw y
bane, but surely such P J override
tions should not be allowed it (Singa-
defence needs.—Transporticus
pore).


manifests itself in murder. Somebody
has only to attach the label “Communist”
or “Fascist” to a perfectly nice, well-
intentioned and generally stupid person
to turn him instantly into a malignant
monster.
The only person who shows any
wisdom is Captain Ridley. He can see
that the dishevelled, tattered, sick and
suffering victims of contrary political
theories aren’t fighting one another: it
is only their rival labels that are fighting.
But he is in the unfortunate position of
not being able to apply his wisdom be-
cause all he represents is Free Democracy
or something, another label; and the
only way in which the maddened gang
can come together is in a common hatred
of this new label.
Ridley momentarily brings them all
together in art when he discovers a sick,
half-witted woman who turns out to be
a great opera singer, and who makes
them forget their own sorrows by singing
beautifully about the sorrows of poor
Mimi; and again when a German doctor
diagnoses the illness of another unfor-
tunate sheep as bubonic plague and Ensa
orders the whole crowd to be isolated
and the doors of the theatre locked. The
common catastrophe brings them all to-
gether, but it is only the fellowship of the
unfit. When a British m.o. diagnoses the
dead man’s complaint as tetanus and non-
infectious the common danger is removed
and they fly asunder. Captain Ridley
says there’ll be no shooting, but shoot-
ing commences, and the curtain descends
on his philosophical observation that,
although he has failed to establish peace,
at least he’s shown that it can be done.
It was a terrifying play, acted with amaz-
ing passion, and written in the same way.
Bridget Boland gives no solution, but at
least she shows that war and politics
aren’t solutions.
"Don't Listen, Ladies."
Sacha Guitry, who wrote over 100
plays for his father, himself and his
beautiful wife Yvonne Printemps to play
in, wrote this one for Mr. Clifford
Molli son—though without knowing it —
and Mr. Mollison put it on at the King’s,
Melbourne. Whether or not M. Guitry
would have altogether approved of Mr.
Moliison’s presentation is a matter for
speculation.
The play is one of those superficially
cynical but basically sentimental French
comedies in which the husband, twice
married, thinks he has been made a
cuckold, while his wife ,thinks he is
cuckolding somebody else’s husband,
whereas the facts are that he has become
a little sentimental about his former bed-
fellow and, from a desire for revenge, his
wife has become a little sentimental with
a passing young man.
The dialogue, which is occasionally
addressed to the audience and at other
times to fellow-actors, slips along all the
more easily because there is very little
matter in it. As nothing much happens,
Mr. Mollison has no outlet for the sur-
prising gymnastic talent that he displayed
in “High Temperature” at the same
theatre, when he climbed into and out of
and from underneath a bed for a whole
evening without stopping. In this play
he hardly ever stops talking, and the
physical restraint must be enormous.
It is surprising, then, that Mr. Mollison
does it all so very well. He plays the
role of the French husband quietly and
unexcitedly, and is ably assisted therein
by Avril Wheatley as his roving help-
mate. French elegance is symbolised by
the antique furniture and oh jets d’art
supplied by some of the leading emporia
of Melbourne.
TALKIES
"Champagne for Coesar."
A very funny film (at Sydney Mayfair)
which starts off by biting the seat out of
the pants of commercial-radio pro-
grammes and finishes, a little tamely, by
giving the same institution a playful
shove.
Ronald Colman plays Beauregard
Bottomley, a scholar of the first water
who is unable to get a Job and who, after
a rebuff from a soap magnate, sets about
taking the tycoon’s business from him by
participating in one of those double-or-
nothing quiz programmes. Mr. Colman
—whose estimation of such programmes
is summarised in his remark, “When
people get paid and applauded for know-
ing that two and two make four, the end
of human intelligence is in. sight”—
answers everything from the identity of
an aardvark to a summary of Einstein’s
theory, and finishes up at the last ques-
tion with 40,000,(XX) dollars or nothing
in the ring.
It all makes excellent and occasionally
witty entertainment, with Celeste Holm
and Barbara Britton providing decora-
tion, Vincent Price indulging in some
extravagant clowning as the soap
magnate, and Art Linklelter playing the
quizmaster intelligently enough to
suggest an intelligence 2in. deep.
"Le Pol."
Maurice Chevalier, bis nimble, facile
charm diluted only a little with the years,
turns up again in this pleasant and
slightly-wicked French offering at
Sydney Savoy. He steps and sings with
a little more care than he did once, but
it would still be a safe bet that there are
very few ahead of him in his own par-
ticular line.
He figures here in a lot of witty and
highly-complicated goings-on which have
to do with the visit of the king of
Cerdania (Chevalier) to Paris, his civic
welcome and his collecting in the eye a
large cream-puff hurled by an over-
enthusiastic young admirer. The lady
is the wife of an M,P. who, to wipe out
the insult and preserve his skin, has to
contrive to get himself asked to the same
party as the king. His bacon is saved for
him by his mistress and his wife, both of
whom impress the visiting monarch so
much that the M.F. is not only forgiven
but given an Order of Merit and a
Cabinet post as well.
Sophie Desmarets, as the M.P.’s wife
and ex-midinette with a natural charm
that tosses aside her inability to cope with
the social graces, and Annie Ducaix, as
the mistress, fill their roles magnificently,
and Alfred Adam makes a very enter-
taining fist of being made a cuckold and
Cabinet Minister at the same time.
"Morning Departure."
Those who like; their derring-do told
with an almost polite calm and an
absence of dramatics should enjoy this
British film at Sydney State. It deals in
a quietly convincing fashion with an ill-
fated submarine which, on an exercise
long after the war, explodes a drifting
mine and is sent to the bottom. Of the
12 who survive the disaster eight get to
the surface with the aid of escape-suits,
the other four having to remain until the
salvage people can bring their “boat” to
the surface. A good deal of character is
brought to light and played out very well
by the four who remain in the confined
space of the sub.-—John Mills as the
captain, Nigel Patrick as his No. 1,
Richard Attenborough as a young stoker
and James Hayter as A.B. Higgins. The
surface scenes of the salvage craft and
their men working desperately to get the
"Wipe your feet first—I don't Want all that mess in here.”
stricken sub. to the surface before a gale
forces them back to port are both arrest-
ing and convincing.
"A Lady Without a Passport"
There are two characters in this
M.-G.-M. item, sighted at Sydney St.
James, who look slightly credible. One is
a U.S. Navy pilot sitting on the tail of a
planeful of illegal immigrants trying to
get into the U.S. and carrying on a
pleasant languid conversation with his
base. The actor, unnamed, carries con-
viction and humor, touches the imagina-
tion and gives the best performance in
the film. The other satisfactory per-
former is a dusky dancer in a dive on the
Cuban waterfront. The lady doesn’t
speak, but even if she did she couldn’t
say any more than she does with her
sinuous movements and galvanic
gestures.
Unfortunately, the appearances of both
performers could probably be timed in
seconds, most of the running-time being
taken up by Hedy Lamarr and John
Hodiak in some rather incredible doings
in Cuba and the dripping, smoky jungle
in Florida, Mr. Hodiak is one of Uncle
Sam’s immigration officers sent to Cuba
to sniff out an organisation which is
whisking refugees, sans passports and
other necessary documents, into the U.S.
by air at 1000 dollars a ticket. He dis-
guises himself by the simple expedient
of adopting an accent, allegedly
Hungarian, and hangs around the place
with a frown and a bad temper, all of
which is meant to convey the impression
that he hasn’t got a passport and wants
to get into the U.S. in a hurry.
In the course of being offered a quick
trip north Mr. Hodiak meets the Lamarrrr
hanging about the same parts wearing a
slight air of bewilderment, and about the
same quantity of clothing and also sweat-
ing on being assisted under Uncle vSam’s
vigilant nose. Naturally, Mr. Hodiak’s
problem reduces itself to the simple
conflict of whether to resign from the
service and bask in the charms of Cuba
and the Lamarrrr for ever after, or to use
her as a pilot to help him bag the whole
gang.
Love, duty and melodrama are all
served extravagantly well with the
Lamarrrr being forced through the
Florida jungles by the villainous leader
of the gang and with Mr. Hodiak hot-
footing it after them. Presumably Uncle
Sam is expected to take a lenient view of
the lady and admit her to the fold, which
is rather a pity because, had he sent her
back to Cuba, one might have seen the
dusky dancer again.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 95
Across,
I—Coppers take the Red Indian
amount of medicine and act with
a herb. (6) . .
4—Firm aboriginal pertaining to
striving. (8)
10— A single pip for successful ser-
vice and an aeronaut. (3)
11— Imperilled finish is infuriated. (10)
13 —Fight a case of sorts. (3)
15 — Ergo article concerning the
golfer’s warning. (9)
16— Potentate ember swallowed by
father. (5)
17— Money from pirates. (7)
22 will managed 100 with Gallic
gold. (6)
23 Rolland gets the Order of Merit
in the rain otherwise backing the
chief. (6)
24 Nip with the bill pig section of
London and a medieval Arch-
bishop of Canterbury or a
quarter-bushel on a rich old-
fashioned actor. (7)
27 A mac of course. (5)
28— Thanks managed a city south of
Moscow for an eight-footer. (9)
30 —In favor. (3)
32 Angry poles swallow a number of
intersections. (10)
33 -Lengthen. (3)
34 Dances for a couple of paces. (8)
35 — Careless and negligent about a
spinster. (6)
Down.
1 — Fielding position puts Carol
Reed’s last film at the bottom
of the sea. (4, 5,3)
2 Depressing sag about a prelate
and nine turning up. (9)
3 Red-headed father may be drunk.
(6, 3)
5 Sleep upset Bradman. (3)
6 Label flier rising. (3)
7 Is about to study holy images. (5)
8 — Exasperate the East between five
and ten. (3)
9 Five take the exclamation of a
hesitant speaker on a city in
Italy. (6)
12 —Original girl goes to the Northern
Territory occurrence. (5)
14 —Parent ruler doesn’t fail an
occupation of “wolves.” (6, 6)
18 — Landless island in a fury. (3)
19— Are turning up the age. (3)
20 — Borrow work or upset many with
grain. (6, 3)
21 — Meat spirit upset the sailor and 1
finish off a Ring of Babylon. (9)
25 —Provide for a disorderly trace
consumed as the heart of a
councillor. (5)
26—Here is why this is a violent
departure from orthodox belief.
(6)
28 —Vegetable. (5)
30 — Not many. (3)
31— Legal point. (3)
32 — Hint for an actor carried by a
billiardist. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 94.


BROADCASTING
•c
D
\
J
t
&
o c
TELEPHONE MANUFACTURE
o o
D
vs
vs
MARINE WIRELESS
vs
V
AVIATION
EQUIPMENT
Cs 3
vt
■mrr. T l
RECORDING
w
m
HEAD \p
OFFICE V
a
m
n
mil
, \
RADIOTRON
VALVES
CQI
n
n
V/
n
r=f\
MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS
RADIOLA
RECEIVERS
ENGINEERING
SALES
TELGON
CABLES
O
TRAFFIC
SIGNALS
o
a
£
©
AMPRO
PROJECTORS
c
SB;
D
rti
o
&
SMITHS CLOCKS
oQ
RADIO
ELECTRIC
WORKS
I-
-5v
°<n is
In pioneering ship-to-shore communication, far
back in 1913, Amalgamated Wireless placed
Australia abreast of world progress in the science
of Wireless.
Today navigation in the air as on the sea —*
looks to A.W.A., the fountainhead of electronic
research, for the latest developments in radio
technique to ensure safety and comfort in travel.
Australia’s National Wireless Organisation
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
November 15, 1950
