

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 71 —No. 3687
Wednesday, October 11, 1950
Ptfice 9d.
Registered at the Genera] Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ARUNDEL CASTLE, NOBLE PRIZE FOR THE HASTINGS VICTORY
THE history of Arundel Castle in Sussex reaches far back into the centuries
when its strong defensive position on a hill guarding the gap in the South
Downs made by the River Arun, was recognised by the early Britons, the
Romans and the Normans. Alfred the Great (871-901) numbered it amongst
his possessions, and eventually it passed to William the Conqueror, who
conferred it on Montgomery, the commander of the centre of William’s
victorious army at the Battle of Hastings.
Owing to the treason of Montgomery's son, Robert de Belleme, the most
troublesome baron of his time, the castle reverted to the crown in 1102, and
Henry 1 granted it to his second wife. Subsequently it passed by marriage to
the FitzAlans, who held it for three centuries until 1580. The last of the
FitzAlans, the twenty-second Earl, was made Governor of Calais by Henry VIII
in 1536, and he played a prominent part in placing Queen Mary Tudor on
the throne. On his death, Arundel passed to Thomas Howard, the fourth
Duke of Norfolk and ancestor of the present owner of the castle, the Earl
Marshal of England, the Duke of Norfolk.
Arundel was besieged on three occasions; first by Henry I in 1102, by
Stephen in 1130 and finally by the Parliamentarians (1643-1644), who reduced
most of the castle to ruins. It was rebuilt in the eighteenth century, again at
the end of the nineteenth century, and there have been extensive restorations
in modern Gothic. Little now remains of the original castle except the keep,
the barbican towers and part of the curtain wall.
This magnificent ducal possession, which is open to the public, is
surrounded by its extensive wooded parkland in one of the most beautiful
parts of the Sussex Downs, four miles from Littlehampton.
CHRISTMAS WINE FOR BRITAIN!
Have yon friends or relatives in the United Kingdom? Here, then, is news that must
interest yon. Just imagine them toasting you at Christmas Dinner while you toast them
in the same wine twelve thousand miles away! That’s possible through the “WIIs'E-FOR-
BRITAIN scheme introduced by The House of Seppelt. Through their Uondon Office, Seppelts
will arrange for your friends in the Homeland to be supplied with Seppelt Wines-before this
coming Christmas. loti’ll have to act at once for Christmas will soon be here. Get details
of Seppelts “Wine-For-Britain” scheme: Write to The House of Seppelt, Box 1432 H. G.P.0..
Adelaide. South Australia. *
A
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
SERVICE
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


f Learn
StoryWrUWJ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 250 AQE
The Red Page
MARCEL PROUST.
Marcel P was enviably qualified
f cr bis Tearcu ■ ? or Lost Time; he was
. ' • i ug>, U ose a great deal of it in
lis life, and to devote the
..tacond half of 1 is life to remembering it
a ; ries of books, which is one
of tha world lost precise and complex
efforts of memory.
Box to French doctor who had
married a ilch and cultivated Jewess,
Proust developed a deep affection for his
beautiful mother, and asthma, which
made him a semi-invalid. We see him
growing-up, in The Quest For Proust, by
Andre Maurois (Cape), elegant, witty,
profoundly-read, charming at tennis-
parties, not a one for the girls, black-
haired, black-moustached ; eyes dark and
deep-set, teeth very white; and with a
chin long, fine, and pointed like a shovel.
He had discourse with Anatole France,
was deeply-influenced by John Ruskin,
produced a book of short pieces, Les
Plaisirs et les Jours, and, much to every-
one’s surprise, fought a pistol-duel with a
critic over it. His father, who had become
Professor, and Inspector of French
Public Health Services, died in 1903, and
his mother in 1905. Proust lingered in
the old flat for a little more than a year ;
then, in 1906, aged 35, he took the flat at
102 Boulevard Haussmann where he was
to live until 1919.
At this point Proust entered the cocoon
stage of his career, as Maurois puts it
(though recherche for where Maurois
says this has failed, it would hardly be
like Maurois to miss such an oppor-
tunity); he began to sleep by day and work
or go out at night; people in flats in the
same building were given money to pre-
vent any noise or hammering before after-
noon —it disturbed Proust’s rest; and
finally Proust had his study lined com-
pletely with cork ; and there he labored
at the book in which “the reader, curious
about French Society, can find a picture
of that society as it existed between the
years 1880 and 1919 when it was still
living in a past that gave it meaning and
beauty”:
Round him were ranged his Notebooks,
school exercise-bfooks bound in black
American cloth, from which he cut selected
passages for inclusion in the finished manu-
script. The room was filled with the yellow
eddies of his fumigations (for asthma), and
reeked of their pungent smell. Through
this cloud the visitor would catch sight of
Marcel, looking pale and rather puffy, his
eyes shining in the enveloping fog, dressed
in a nightshirt over which be wore
numerous woollen pullovers, all of them a
mass of burns, and coming unravelled
At the same time,- he could handle
money, and evidently with success,
although his letters to his stockbroker
must rank as curiosities of business:
....I gather from the Credit Industrial
that, in this matter of selling out, the 4th
March is settling-day, which means that
they won’t have the money before the
third. But I shall have to draw a cheque
for 100,000 francs, dated the 3rd, and this
they will honor as soon as the sale has
been completed I needn’t tell you that
the transaction is as safe as houses. I
guarantee that there will be enough funds
in my account to meet the cheque. If
this arrangement seems all right to you
(the Credit Industrial assure me that it is
all in order and that I need fear no delay,
which is as good as to say that all will be
well, because they are extremely reliable
people), all you need do —with your know-
ledge of how my account stands —is to
reckon how many shares I ought to take
up. I don’t want to spend more than,
roughly, a hundred thousand, which, I
suppose, represents something like 270 Rand
and 275 Crown, though perhaps not all
paid up (the brokerage charges to be
included in that sum, or exceeding it by
only a very little. I mean, I don’t want to
find, after I have paid the hundred thou-
sand, that there is still something owing.)
Like Aranyi, I keep on saying the same
thing over and over again, but I am anxious
that there shouldn’t be any mistake....
If, however, for some reason or other,
Leon dislikes the idea, and if he should
say to you “it’s a bit late in the day to
take up the share now,” etc., then (but I
must know fhr certain by tomorrow, the
29th) I won’t take up any
For almost twice this length, the letter
goes on analysing Proust’s state of mind
over his investments (he was for some
time interested in Australian goldmines).
Or he would write to women friends for
their advice on dressmaking, or fox-furs
to be given to a young girl, or send a ser-
vant to some English friends: “Monsieur
has sent me to ask Monsieur and
Madame what became of Shelley’s
heart,” or consult his close friend Rey-
naldo Hahn, the composer, on music ; or
he would call upon old friends at
11.30 p.m. and demand that they should
call their young daughter. On their point-
ing to the clock he again insisted, and the
daughter was wakened and brought
down:
Wnat was it that he hoped to find in
her?—the impressions he needed in order
to paint the portrait of Mademoiselle de
Saint-Loup, the daughter of the woman
whom the Narrator had once loved.
His book was to be “a novel of two-
thousand pages, which would have in it
something of the Arabian Nights, some-
thing of George Eliot, something of
Thomas Hardy, something of Saint-
Simon and yet would be different from
all of them, a novel of which the principal
character would be Time, a novel in
which, after exploring the Paradise of
childhood, he would debouch into the
Hell of Sodom ” and as it was to be
a sincere book he had something of a
struggle with himself, deciding to tell the
world what he dared not tell his father,
could not tell his mother, and managed,
with infinite pains, to keep from all his
friends until his book was published—
that he was a homosexual, subsidising, at
least to the extent of some of his own
furniture, a house run by a vicious butler,
and even retaining handsome young
secretaries in his flat as “prisoners,”
forbidden to set foot outside it.
“You can tell everything,” he told Gide
later, “but only on condition that you
never say T.”
Enfin ! as the French say, the book was
turned down by publisher after pub-
lisher ; it went to the Nouvelle Revue
Frangaise, “which Proust regarded as
being his true spiritual home” ; but Gide
himself, patron saint of the inverted,
turned it down:
Andre Gide, opening the manuscript at
random, happened on a passage in which
the Narrator described his Aunt Leonie as
“holding out for me to kiss her sad brow,
pale and lifeless... .through which the
vertebra showed like the points of a crown
of thorns or the beads of a rosary.”
What! vertebra in a forehead! Gide
sent in an unfavorable report.
Eventually, in 1913, Bernard Grasset
published the first volume, a tedious war
supervened, and Proust went on re-
writing and amending the remaining
volumes ; and as they came out, volume
by volume, Proust became famous.
Nor did he wait for fame to come to
him ; it was as a result of his own organis-
ing ability and drive that, in 1919, he was
awarded the Prix de Goncourt; and to
still the disapproving clamor against the
prize, meant to encourage the young,
having been awarded to a man past
middle age, Proust wrote an article for the
Press;
Monsieur Marcel Proust is forty-seven.
But the superiority of his talent was so
outstanding that the judges agreed to waive
the question of age
Nor, as he worked in bed, dying and
knowing he was dying, at the proofs of
the remaining books, at last removed to
their “spiritual home” in the N R.F., did
Proust neglect them after they had been
ushered into the world:—
He applied hijnself with passion to the
task of getting people to write articles on
his book, and, if put to it, wrote them
himself He was prepared, he said, to
pay for the reprinting, in other papers,
of the more dithyrambic of the praises
accorded to him. He wanted a noisier
publicity campaign, and regretted that his
book could not have been announced, like
Paul Morand’s, with a showcard bearing
the words Not For Young Girls I
Mr. Maurois has made it a most read-
able biography; and for students of
Proust there are more than a hundred
pages of description and analysis of the
book itself, with a certain amount of in-
quiry into who was who.
A Poetic Drama.
Allen CurnowV The Axe (Caxton
Press) is a poetic drama for the stage,
describing an action on Mangaia in the
Cook Islands in 1824 when the landing of
a missionary, supported by the ruling
chief and opposed by his hereditary
enemies, provoked a tribal war which
resulted in the extermination of the
heathen and, consequently, the destruc-
tion of the natives’ traditional way of
life. It is at its most effective as a play
to read ; well put together as a dramatisa-
tion of ideas ; and least effective--though
not without some holding-power-—as a
tragedy for the stage.
The writing shows a considerable debt
to Eliot. On the first page there are
some iines about “suffering” which could
have come out of any of Eliot’s poetry
from the “Preludes” to The Cocktail
Party : —
We do not come or go. We are here
Endlessly suffering.
On the next page there are watery
“voices” like those of The pry Salvages:
You do not have to listen, ydu cannot help
hearing
Voices, voices, as if distance did not deaden
In yellow calm, when the island is an island
In time, not ocean.
Then there are people who “face and
embrace the time” as in Eliot they
“redeem the time” ; there are paradoxes
of time and eternity such as “In time
you will know. But you will not know
in time” ; a marching army is seen —“I
never dreamt so many had gone that
way”—much as Eliot in The Waste Land
saw the crowds going over London Bridge
—“I had not known death had undone
so many” ; one native invites another to
“Come here, under the rock Come
under the rock” as Eliot invites you to
“Come -under the shadow of this red
rock” . . . and so you go through the
play until the natives in the choruses
near the end find themselves saying much
the same' things, though without direct
echoes here, as the equally troubled
chorus in Murder in the Cathedral : —
Rock cannot echo or water mirror the
horror.
The wind gasps heavily but no word is
formed....
What light?
Our stars are fallen, we are cut adrift in
the storm,
And in what parts of the sea we shall find
ourselves
When the calm comes, is not in our control.
Yet, despite the influence of Eliot, there
is a cold, incisive quality about this verse
which is Mr. Curnow’s own and which
persists throughout the play, giving it, on
the whole, an independent and distinctive
life. Some of the choruses, particularly,
are cut and polished till they gleam like
dark stone ; always solid and occasion-
ally, as in the concluding lines of the
following quotation, with a lyrical
beauty: —
*. wide the sea, but here upon land
There is not enough room, there is not
enough room.
Dead calm before the wind in the morning.
Dead calm after the wind in the evening.
You do not have to listen, you cannot help
hearing
Voices, voices, as if distance did not deaden
In yellow calm, when the island is an island
In time, not ocean; neither night nor day.
I saw that ship first like a mote in the sun-
set
Then like a bird, then bigger than any
bird —
A thing never seen before, difficult to believe
in.
Circling the land I saw, the manoeuvres of
arrival. *
It lies there, larger than land 1 catch
Above the hush of the swell, the gurgle in
the cave,
A speech unheard before, glittering and
shrill off the water,
Feverish and low from the shore, admiring,
questioning.
The intention of the play is to “make
audible, in our modern terror, the rever-
beration of one irretrievable step in
history”; the protagonists are “two
religions, two religion-based orders of
society, therefore morally implicating a
modern audience.” The reader is not
expected to see Numangatini’s dominant
party representing Communism and
Tereavai’s heathen party representing
Christianity, or vice versa—the allegory
cannot be reduced to such simple terms —
but we do see an old order of religion
and society destroyed by a new ; and Mr.
Curnow’s natives, if they are too much
aware of the historical process to sound
very much like Maoris of the Cook
Islands, have some fine lines to say about
the problems of the 20th century: —
And if 'a man tosses and curses in his sleep
Shall 1 be sure which of us is dreaming
When I shake him by the shoulder, whisper-
ing the word, War....
Tormented in the to and fro of tides,
O inhabitants of the isle, think now:
The world we know is a swaying disk of
ocean
With a scrap of ,green ground at the hub,
the heart
Of a sufficing ageless universe;
But the old centre was shifting, shifting still;
Sleeping, we fell apart in hostile camps,
Each dreaming the other’s nightmare.
But this, however well said, is really a
kind of commonplace; anybody who
reads the newspapers knows that the
world is—or appears to be —divided into
hostile religious camps. What we don’t
know anything about is what kind of
man, in the fulness of his humanity, was
Numangatini, who fought a war on
Mangaia in 1824. Mr. Cur now runs a
love story with the religious drama, and
there is some strength of conflict between
the chief and the old high-priest, so that
a stream of human feeling lives tenuously
and tenaciously in his play ; but he does
not tell us enough about any of his
people to make them live immortally as
characters in the round ; and the poet
who fails to do that, as Eliot himself
has recognised by dispensing with the
chorus and returning to the problem of
individual characterisation, cannot fulfil
the great mission of the poetic drama by
restoring poetry to the public stage and
so to the life of the people.
Jean Malaquais.
Though the war cut us off from French
literature for so many years nobody who
had read in 1939 The Men from Java—
that powerful, colorful novel on the sur-
prising subject of coalminers —could ever
forget the name nf its author, Jean
Malaquais, and a new Malaquais novel,
World Without Visa (Gollancz; Angus
and Robertson), is an event that must be
chronicled.
Malaquais does indeed create a
“world” in this book, or very nearly.
One glimpses it, in alternate flashes of
brilliance and shadow, in the Marseilles
of the war —Marseilles as yet unoccupied
by the Germans, under Vichy control.
A strange Marseilles of deserted docks
and useless warehouses, of ancient smells
and the new regime. One of the strangest
sights, perhaps, of the war: from this
image Malaquais, in - a series of deft
sketches, extracts every ounce of value.
It is the key for the novel, and a tone-
poem in itself. It is also a perfect foil
for the astringent, queerly grotesque
atmosphere of Vichyand for the scenes
of violence as the novel unfolds.
But, for all their brilliance, the early
chapters are somewhat disappointing.
(Continued on inside back cover.)
Flat Characters.
Dear Red Page,
I read your review of Nettie Palmer’s
Henry Handel Richardson with, great in-
terest, especially that part of it in which
you discuss “flat” and “round” characters
in novels.
The first time they were divided into
those two categories was, as far as I
know, in 1927 at Cambridge, and it was
done by E. M. Forster in the fourth of his
Clark Lectures on “Aspects of the
Novel.” It is not my intention, in men-
tioning this, to draw your attention to
something you already know, but rather
to point out some interesting differences
between your definitions of “flat” and
“round” characters and his. Might I in-
dicate, before going on, that his view of
them is very nearly the same as Nettie
Palmer’s, which, possibly, is derived from
his.
To return to your review; there, you
define a “flat” character as “essentially
negative, colorless, unreal, mechanical,”
and, no doubt, the word “flat” can mean
just that —viz., “Answers to Correspond-
ents” column ; but not as E. M. Forster
first used it, and as I am sure many other
critics, for instance, Nettie Palmer her-
self, do still today. Forster applied it to
the type of character who always presents
the same, which is really his or her only,
front to the reader and whose actions,
words and thoughts are closely related to
one central quality or, I venture to add,
attitude. He gives many examples, includ-
ing Mrs. Micawber and Mr. Pickwick,
saying of the latter that, “We may look at
Mr. Pickwick edgeways and find, him no
thicker than a gramophone record,”
Hence he is “flat,” as are the overwhelm-
ing majority of Dickens’s characters.
But this does not mean that Forster re-
gards them as “essentially negative.” On
the contrary, he shows how authors of
Dickens’s calibre impart their own vitality
to such characters, causing them “to
vibrate a little, so that they borrow his
life and appear to lead one of their own” ;
and it is here that Forster carries his
definition further by describing them as
incapable of development and always at
the whim and will of their creators ; and
thus he calls them, so appropriately for
his purposes, “luminous disks,...to be
pushed hither and thither.” I think we
should keep that word “luminous” in
mind ; it aptly describes one of a good
“flat” character’s main attributes, just as
“colorless and unreal” applies to the
puppet-creations of the second-rater.
The “round” characters, as Forster
sees them, are the others’ opposites, but
they are not necessarily alive in the Sarah
Gamp manner at all. Forster’s own A
Passage to India abounds in them, beings
whom one can regard from many aspects
and who lead a life of their own, even at
times to the reader’s bedevilment, so com-
plex are its ramifications. They are
“round,” and alive.
For instance, could we put Dr. Aziz
in anything like the same category as the
Dominie Sampsons, and yet could we
deny that he is a vital figure for all his
complexes?
I submit that while your definitions are
not without validity, they really apply to
only a narrow field wherein we find
novels with many characters of the em-
phatically hearty, earthy kind—what the
Germans call “ frisch, fromm and
frdhfich.” Forster’s and Nettie Palmer's,
I believe, are capable of far wider appli-
cation ; of including, in fact, all the
characters found in novels.
W. H. ROBERTS.


"TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING"
Anthony Horderns’
iV'\
/V?
■
'OW
■
' •’ *
■
■v / . :
:';>: •>
.
.
m
m
i ■
■ y
I
;v.
■
■* .* .
m
%
m
m
;?
-i =r . . ,
v' ,;
:
■
m
‘■i:
m
MiMI
ii
■
ill
■• J ■ '!■•■
;
I
WyIER
ycy
nil
*
• ■? : ;
H
<3s
I
M
utr
a
If
n
NS
J T -r S 3
n^U/iii
mm
■ S
/
||s
H
r >■
'A
t
/i
y
Hi
'X
y
h:
y:
y
*• v
.«•
A
%
y
T
i
There is a Dunlopillo Cushion lor Every Purpose!
Any size Dunlopillo made to Order i
Dunlopillo can be cut in any size to fit either mattresses, chairs, window seats,
outdoor furniture, the nursery or car. Dunlopillo is ideal because
it s so soft, so cool and dustproof! Added to this, it is extremely economical!
m
Unillustrated:
Code 112. 31i x 15$ x 4in. Uncov., £4/7/9
Code 74. x 19i x 4in. Uncov., £6/18/6
Code 37. 43 x 19-2- x 4in. Uncovered, £6/3/-
Code 38. 43 x 21 x 4in. Uncovered, £6/12/-
Code 46. Bow Front. 16i x 14£ x 2in. Uncov-
ered, price, 20/3. Tapestry Covered, 30/6
Code 57. 18 x 18 x 2in., 26/3; Cov., 38/-
"Comfitop" Car Cushions. Sin. Tap. Cov., 30/9
Motor Cycle Cushions. 4in. Uncov., 45/6
Code 142. 15f x 16f x 3fin., 31/9; Cov., 42/3
Any size Dunlopillo made to order! 2in.
thick, 15/9 sq. ft. 4in. thick, 26/- per sq. ft.
Left:
Hospital Cushion. Code 62. 18in. diameter,
Sin. hole. Uncov., 29/3 Tapestry Cov., 42/3
Code 89. "D" Shape Cushion. 17in. x 17in.
x 2fin. Uncovered, 25/3. Tapestry Cov., 35/9
Unillustrated:
Code 58. 19in. x 19in. x Sin. Uncov., 40/3
Below:
Round Cushion is code 5, with diameter of
15in. Uncovered, 'A/-. Tapestry Cov., 22/9
;
■
■’ ■
"D" Shape Cushion, 36/9
Code 20. 17 x 17 x 3£in. tap-
ering to 2iin. Uncov., 36/9
Plough, Tractor Cushion
Code 48. Uncovered, 22/6
Reversible Cushions
Code 150. 18 x 18 x 15i
Uncov., 35/9. Tap. Cov., 59/
ANTHONY HORDERNS' SADDLERY DEPT.-LOWER GROtJND FLOOR, PITT STREET.
PHONE: M 2401; BOX
2712 C, G.P.p. SYDNEY


ICEMASTER
KEROSENE REFRIGERATOR
Jg
oc*ta
W
Si
Wim
m
m
SKH
&
dsf
The Kerosene Refrigerator
that every country house-
wife has longed to own! As
big and beautiful as the De-
luxe electric models —an
improved, high - efficiency
system that brings a new
era of trouble-free perform-
ance a freezing - power
that’s amazing and the
greatest useable storage
space ever offered for the
rated cubic capacity!
m/gU/f M®
JSSn
AL2O
mm
■ '
imm
ai
s
Ml®
Pv
■
•ITV
■
HI #
1 • m
m
i
fy j
:
mm
w
11 i
•ililllii
HUM
■■■-•■'. R -■'
s^^
r
ssS
s&ss §ss
SI
H
yftrrrrr^rrf^
• DISTRIBUTORS
• N S W.; Bennett Cr Wood Pty. Ltd., enr. Pitt and Bathurst
Sts. • VIC.: Keivinotor Australia Limited, Williamstown
Rd., Port Melbourne. • QLD.: Willers & Co. Pty. Ltd., 36
Eagle St., Brisbane. • SOUTH AUST.; Radio Electric Whole*
saters Ltd., James Place; Broken Hill Barrier Electrical
Appliances Ltd., Argent St. • W.A.; Western Appliances
Ltd., c/o Nicholsons Ltd., Barrack St., Perth; Westralian
Farmers Co-op. Ltd., 569 Wellington St., Perth. • TAS.:
Max Geeves Pty., Ltd., Dovey St., Hobart, and Brisbane St.,
Launceston.
APPLIANCES
LIMITED, FINSBURY, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
9 -- - '


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3687
Wednesday, October 11, 1950
ONCE BITTEN
"Sell you ANOTHER pup, lady? Look what the last one I sold you’s grown into!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
ViofORU: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand. Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE BILL OR CHIFLEY.
Temper of last week’s Senate meetings in
Canberra was to allow the Menzies Gov-
ernment to do nothing in this Parliament
to carry out the programme endorsed
by the electors nine months ago.
“Labor” obstruction in the Senate was
resumed with a refusal to receive Gov-
ernment business. “Labor” is not only
defending and protecting the Com-
munists, but is using the Communist
technique to do* so. Imitating Moscow’s
methods at U.N.0., its use of the veto is
malicious abuse of process.
A veto has been set up in the Senate a c
the result of a successful bit of “Labor”
tinkering with the constitution of that
Chamhe>* in 1948, designed to defeat any
ch-y-ge" in the popular vote —and the
-uange coming was written all over the
sky—at the elections which no jerry-
mandering could avoid. The irrepressible
Mr. Calwell spilt the beans when he told
an A.L.P. country conference in January,
1949, 11 months before the elections
were held:
At the elections this year [1949] even if
“Labor” were to lose command of the
Lower House it must [under the new
legislation] have a majority in the Senate.
That means that the Opposition [if elected
to power] will not be able to repeal any
Acts, such as the Bank Act, or change
the taxation incidence
That is to say, the rigging of a “Labor”
rump in the Senate sufficient to counter
any voting of the electorate against
“Labor” would assure that the new Gov-
ernment could do nothing, that “Labor”
as a minority party could thus veto all
legislation for which the Government was
specifically elected and throw out the
Budget.
What Mr. Calwell confidently predicted
is coming about, and while “Labor,”
through an unrepresentative majority in
the Senate, refuses to allow Government
business to be conducted, it derides the
Government before the bamboozled
electors for its “impotence,” The cure of
the economic sickness afflicting Australia
under inflation already demands, and will
soon compel, the most drastic action to
spread the sacrifices necessary for re-
covery. This is the juncture at which
“Labor” announces in the plainest fashion
that it will resist, obstruct and, so long as
it can, veto any remedial action whatever
by the Government elected from the
people to clean up the mess which the
late “Labor” Government left behind it.
If the Senate’s attitude revealed last
week is maintained a double-dissolution
is inevitable; the alternative, a last-
minute “Labor” surrender, should on all
precedent entail the end of Mr. Chifley’s
leadership.
The legislation blocked, or to be
blocked, embraces:
The Communist-party Dissolution Bill.
The Bank Bill.
The bill to provide endowment for the
first child in a family, others already receiv-
ing endowment.
The bill for a referendum to provide
against Senate deadlock in elections under
a double-dissolution.
The amending Defence Act Bill to pro-
vide for the security and the international
commitments of the country.
The Budget and any bills founded upon
the Budget.
The National Health Bill.
Belated repentance during June last in
favor of the child-endowment measure
occurred only because “Labor” in N. S,
Wales was about to face the general
elections in that State. The Government’s
referendum bill to require, in the event of
a double-dissolution, election of Senators
in two groups is necessary to avert the
likely result under proportional-represent-
ation of the return of an equally-divided
Senate and therefore another deadlock.
This position results from the Act fixing
numbers in the enlarged Senate at 60—10
from each State. The tendency of P.R. to
inflate a minority vote, even to the extent
of penalising a majority, can be com-
bated only by providing for the filling of
an odd-number of seats, and the Govern-
ment’s proposal for the election
(fortunately infrequent) of the full Senate
(at a double-dissolution) in two groups of
five from each State takes a logical way
out of the difficulty.
When the Senate majority last week re-
fused to debate any Government business
until a futile private bill of Senator
McKenna’s for a price-control referen-
dum shall be passed through all
stages, no doubt remained that any pro-
longation of this Parliament’s life is but
a waste of time. In final affront to the
Australian people this Communist-
riddled “Labor” gang pretends that gov-
ernment of the country is in the hands of
an obsolete handful in the Senate, and not
of the overwhelming majorities for the
Liberal- and Country-parties’ pro-
gramme elected in the contested seats of
both Houses last December.
Price-control did not stop inflation two
years ago while divorced from control of
wages (and “Labor” won’t stand for
that) ; it only increased scarcity of goods
by making production unprofitable and
raised prices by forcing consumers to
deal in blackmarkets or go without. Nor
does “Labor” believe that its purely
political scheme can be made effective
now. It would require months anyway to
complete the constitutional formalities —
rejection below, three months’ interval,
then further rejection—even to force it
past the Government. The Government
could not, without abdicating, accept it or
submit it to the Governor-General. As
for price-control technique, the “Labor”
policy now, as formerly under the late
Chifley Government, is primarily to make
it a sort of Trojan-horse for socialisation,
by the oblique method of price-fixing
traders, large and small, permanently out
of business. As for the McKenna bill,
doomed from the outset, its purpose is
primarily to prevent the Government
from carrying any legislation at all, and
secondarily to provide a text for Senators
to make electioneering speeches instead
of doing the work for which they receive
handsome salaries and allowances.
Clearly this Parliament is now noth-
ing but a drag on the Common-
wealth. Any delay in putting an end to
it must operate adversely on Australia’s
economic recovery. But it will not be
enough to re-create the Parliament. The
people cannot vote themselves out of in-
flation, and the obligation to give a
national lead in tackling the emergency
would be handed on to the new Parlia-
ment from this present one. Measures
which the Government proposes to this
end, to be disclosed in detail when the
Budget is brought down, are apparently
to be rejected out of hand from the
Senate. That is the threat.
The next move is with the Prime
Minister. A prime factor in the decision
he must make is the wasting, perhaps
irreparable, consequences of the further
delay sought to be imposed by “Labor”
upon the Government’s efforts to bring
into being a workable Parliament. This
consideration may now appear so press-
ing that; Mr. Menzies may be obliged to
ask the Governor-General for a double-
dissolution without waiting for a prior
referendum on reform in Senate voting.
When The Bulletin went to press the
Parliamentary situation was still “fluid.”
But Mr. Menzies’s general intentions have
been made partly clear by his broadcasts
last week. He is to bring in an excess-
profits tax of a nature yet to be defined. A
scheme of some sort will be introduced
to restrict the effect of soaring wool
prices. A savings campaign is to be
launched, and Government expenditure
on public works (other than for defence)
will be “substantially cut.” Basic
materials for essential purposes are to
be controlled, and capital-issue control is
to be reintroduced. The pound is not to
be revalued.
But more relevant to our current
problems than any of these proposals, in
which some concessions to party unity are
discernible, was the Prime Minister’s in-
sistence on the banning of the Communist
party and the necessity for increased
essential production. On those points Mr.
Chifley may expect no concessions.
Pay-off on Korea.
While South Korean troops range
through North Korea the United Nations
Assembly continues to discuss its fate
at Lake Success. There is no doubt
that the nations are in two camps
in which there can be no com-
promise on principles. In the one
are the countries of the Western world,
whose leaders hold that peace and agree-
ment can be obtained by means of
friendly thrashing-out of differences. On
the other side are the Eastern nations
under the bandit-leadership of Russia,
whose cry is either “Asia for the Asians”
rather than “the world for the world”
or whose principles of action are based
upon the philosophy of dialectic material-
ism, which teaches that nothing can pro-
gress save through struggle to the death
between two opposites in the course of
which one is destroyed and the other
swallows the remains.
To Soviet Russia U.N.O. is the greatest
possible gift to dialectic materialism
which its sponsors could conceive, and if
Stalin and his satellites had ever looked
on it as anything else they would not
have taken the trouble to help to found
and maintain it. To them it is as much
an organ of world revolution as the Red
Army, and they have no intention of
leaving so fine a field of mischief even
though they sit in it at present as out-
casts pursuing a policy of obstruction
calculated to divide the rest of the world.
There is a school of thought which
believes that they are clumsy and foolish
in pursuing this policy ; but it certainly
pays dividends. If it were not for U.N.O.
it would be very difficult indeed for
Russia to publicise its first-rank projects
of disruption in neat order as and when
they will do most harm, and impossible
for it to bring the diplomats of the world
into the open on ground carefully chosen
and with weapons of Moscow’s selection
to place them at a disadvantage before
their own peoples. Even when it seems
to lose at the present game, Russia usually
gains something substantial; and Korea
is an example of this truth.
Had Korea been merely a matter for
the Allies, which took over the country
from the Japanese (with whom there is
as yet no peace treaty), they could have
settled its fate among themselves and
without much argument. Britain and
America, the countries most concerned
and which have done all the fighting both
against Japan and North Korea, are in
complete agreement as to the course
which should be taken. Mr. Bevin, the
British Foreign Minister, as he told
U.N.O.’s Assembly clearly 10 days ago,
believes that there can “no longer be a
North and South Korea.” Mr. Acheson
obviously thinks likewise. Yet they have
been manoeuvred into a position in which
Russia was able to take the initiative and
put forward a cease-fire plan, which re-
ceived world-wide attention, for making a
peace-settlement in Korea. And though
Russia armed the North Koreans and is
far more guilty than they, the political
committee and Assembly of U.N.O. must
go through the grisly farce of debating
and dealing with the matter to the point
of its inevitable rejection, after Russia,
will have had the opportunity of making
its outraged shouts heard round the globe
per favor of the “capitalist” Press.
Russia has not done badly out of the
Korean business. It has sold (it never
gives ) the North Koreans arms on a large
scale. The affair has thrown a burden
on the economy of the United States, not
to mention Australia. It has divided the
British Commonwealth on a major issue
and drawn India closer to Moscow and
Peking, and Russia has used its “great
leader,” admired by Mr. Chifley, as its
messenger and chock in the United
Nations’ chariot-wheels. It has succeeded
in subdividing the people of some coun-
tries, already divided, more sharply than
before.
Among some “Labor” members in
Australia the North Koreans are in a very
different position from the Japanese in
that they have the support of Moscow
and of the Australian Communist-led
unions which dominate the “Labor”
party. So Mr. Fraser holds the
view that while it is right that the
Japanese border should be crossed and
the Japanese kept in a position of eternal
and humiliating subjection, “the idea that
the whole of North Korea should be
subjugated and placed under the control
of a non-Communist Government is
foreign to many honest, loyal and ideal-
istic supporters of U.N.0.”
In a campaign commendable for its
resoluteness in spite of initial setbacks,
Americans have nevertheless lost many of
their youth, and the Kremlin’s prank has
cost the American and British Common-
wealth treasuries vast sums. Its after-
math will seriously affect Australian taxa-
tion. Attention, moreover, has been
diverted from Russia’s main threatening
activities, which are in Europe, and,
though the United States and British
Governments themselves have not been
diverted and have continued to view the
position in its proper orientation, many
smaller countries have been constrained
to the view that their service to U.N.O.
must consist in keeping their resources
strictly at home against the chances of
themselves becoming new Koreas —again
the Chifley-Evatt party professes to be
among these frightened people, as opposed
to General Bradley, the highest-ranking
commander of the United States forces,
who says that defence of Western Europe
is the primary objective in the defence
of the United States and the globe.
The whole world has been unsettled.
Russia and China have provided them-
selves with excuses to their own people
for wider impositions of conscription and
war-time conditions. And about the only
real casualty Stalin’s cold-war armies
have suffered (outside a few thousand
North Koreans, from the Kremlin’s view-
point only gunfodder) has been Mr.
Henry Wallace, who is now abusing the
workers’ “greatest teacher and leader” in
language which out-Molotovs Molotov.
In the face of this U.N.O. goes on
talking. Its welter of political and other
committees are as busy as bees while
Americans queue up for its various operas,
to which admission can be obtained only
by tickets issued to a favored few, so
great has the entertainment value of its
futile wrangles become —wrangles in
which Vyshinsky, the murderer of thou-
sands of associates after so-called trials,
solemnly protests against “terrorist execu-
tions” in Greece and the Greek repre-
sentative stands up and says that there
has been no execution of a traitor in
Greece since last year, but who is Mr.
Vyshinsky to talk anyhow?
In its present guise U.N.O. is a sham
facade which hides the fact that the only
effective source of influence and strength
in the Western world is the English-
speaking nations. And it also shelters a
no-man’s land to which the enemy can
retire with his thumbs crossed to lick
his wounds and gain time for his next
offensive whenever a situation goes
against him.
If there is anything in the moral pre-
tensions of the U.N.O. nations it cannot
longer tolerate the presence in the organi-
sation of Russia and its aggressive satel-
lites. But at the same time its principles
are such that it cannot continue to exist
without harboring those whose main
object in life is to thwart its primary
purposes, make use and a mock of its
idealism and turn it generally to account
as part of the Red machinery for the
overthrow of Western civilisation.
Inigo Jones.
Australians, to whom the name of
Inigo Jones is now a household word, are
being asked whether or not they think his
work is worth continuing, and, if they do,
to what extent they are prepared to put
in cash to keep it going. The related
questions are pretty important to every-
body, for if Inigo Jones’s weather-fore-
casting methods are correct, or even
nearly correct, all this country has to do
is study them to know how to protect
itself against loss from droughts and
floods.
It will take the study of a 165-year
cycle to settle the reliability or other-
wise of Inigo Jones’s methods. The
“grand weather cycle” on which his fore-
casts are based is of 165 years. There
are lesser cycles, based on the movements
of planets and their connection with sun-
spots, and there are even shorter periods
in which Inigo Jones can claim success.
As an example, in 1944 (a drought year)
he forecast for 1950;
Very wet year, with rainfalls above
average, except along the Darling. In the
longer cycle the rains were much lighter;
the best being in the winter. In the
Saturnian cycle (71 years) it was wet
throughout, with very heavy winter rains.
Not a bad tip six years ahead of the
event. It is this sort of thing that has
earned Inigo Jones the respect of most
people as a weather prophet at home and
abroad.
Inigo Jones is not a Government
meteorologist. He supports himself as
best he can at his Crobamhurst (Q.)
observatory on limited equipment. In
1942 certain people, convinced that his
work was valuable and ought to be con-
tinued, formed the Long Range Weather
Forecasting Trust for that purpose. Inigo
Jones has never asked this trust for a
penny for himself, though his means are
very limited. But he wants the work to
go on, and the trust means that it shall.
He is 77 now. Obviously the first need
is for a trained man to follow him and
for more modern equipment and general
facilities
The sum aimed at is £20,000. Not
much when the worth of Inigo Jones’s
forecast to the wool-industry alone is con-
sidered. But wool is not the sole bene-
ficiary. All aspects of Australian life are
affected. Hundreds of farmers plan their
seasonal programmes on Inigo Jones
forecasts.
The main point is that there is evidence
that Inigo Jones’s forecasting system is
feasible. The final proof is so important
to Australia that the man’s work should
continue, and cash is needed for that.
The trust’s address is Box 1921, Sydney.
All subscribers become entitled, when the
time is appropriate, to receive regional
weather forecasts. The comparatively
small sum asked is for investment in what
may well become a national asset in a
country where the seasons are so
important.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Paying the Piper.
The Prime Minister’s broadcast review
of the problem of rising prices was frank,
all-embracing and in both analysis and
constructive proposals entirely in accord
with his election appeals. The people
were due to be reminded —as he did re-
mind them —that they had demanded
“more social services, more leisure, more
pay, less arduous labor, more migrants,
more defence, more long-range develop-
ment works.” He might have added more
racing, more beer and more lotteries.
But in the long run people must pay
for what they want. The price we are now
paying for what we have insisted upon
having during the past five years is a rising
price-level
With employers and employees alike there
is a carefree belief that you can safely
produce as little as possible and charge as
much as you can get for it.
The remedy in greater common effort,
more efficiency, and more production is
no less obvious. The Government’s pro-
posals to freeze portion of the fantastic
returns from wool, to impose an excess-
profits tax on certain businesses, to re-
control capital issues, to assert priorities
in consumption of basic materials in
short supply, to increase heavily taxa-
tion on luxury goods, to prune public-
works expenditure and overlapping staffs
in Commonwealth and State depart-
ments and to subsidise woollen goods are
all emergency moves in the right direc-
tion so far as Governments can give the
lead to the general community. Inci-
dentally, they had nearly all been sug-
gested by the Victorian Institute of Public
Affairs.
For the rest, the “fight against infla-
tion” depends chiefly on the people them-
selves.
One thing Mr. Menzies knocked out
convincingly in the first round was
“Labor’s” pretence that inflation can be
defeated by Commonwealth control of
commodity-prices, and that the people
can bring down prices by a referendum
vote. That is the sort of political mounte-
bankery that Sydney Smith pilloried early
last century in England with his picture
of the excellent Mrs. Partington repelling
the Atlantic tide with her broom.
Meanwhile high prices were given a
further boost last week by “Labor” in
various quarters through
Continued refusal by Seamen’s Union in
Melbourne, Newcastle, Adelaide and Hobart
to supply crews for ships—lo held up by
die weekend, some of them since September
Strike of all western coalminers in N.S.W.
through dispute over who shall operate the
new giant dragline excavator in Lithgow
opencut.
Coal stoppages at B.H.P. pits—“the worst
thing happening to Australia at present,”
says the Coal Tribunal.
Gas-rationing in Sydney because strike
bfy gas company’s employees prevented un-
loading of colliers.
N.S.W. “Labor” Government’s raising
of all transport fares and freight-rates, and
also new penalty impositions on heavy
road transport “in aid of railway revenue.”
One of the luxuries for which all Aus-
tralia is now paying in the high cost of
daily living is the one insisted upon by
an electoral majority—now infinitesimal,
it is true —in the chief industrial State,
which keeps the McGirr “Labor” Gov-
ernment in office.
As Others See It.
A summary of British Press opinion on
the high wool prices :
London News Chronicle: “ Some sort
of international control —not only of wool but
of all the basic raw materials now in such short
supply—may have to come. The inflationary
perils at present are alarming.... Perhaps some
hope lies in the production of substitutes....
Let us hope the search for substitutes will help
solve the problem.”
London Financial Times: “At present prices
for manufactured goods, there can hardly be
much profit at these [wool] costs. At the moment
it is possible to average the cost of new wool
with stocks bought at lower prices; some of
the buying may be prompted by the reflection
that if an allocation scheme is introduced it is
wise both to have some margin in hand, as
well as a good record of turnover; moreover,
manufacturers will avoid the expense of cutting
down production for as long as possible. But
some time the high prices must reach the con-
sumer ; and the consumer’s pocket is not
bottomless.”
London Economist: “ Demand for all
grades of wool in London proved to be just
as keen as in Australia, and prices generally
rose by fully 50 per cent, compared with July.
This is a slightly larger increase than was
recorded in the opening sales in Australia, but
the difference represents no more than the usual
premium for spot supplies. Merino 64’s are
now quoted at 224 d. a lb., against 15 Id. in
July; fine crossbreds 58’s at 178 d. a lb., against
11 Id. a lb. two months ago; and medium
crossbreds 48’s at 115 d. a lb., against
If allocation is to be accepted, the United States
will have to propose a scheme which will enable
the free auctions to continue. And that would
be a difficult, if not an impossible, task.”
Yorkshire Post: “There is a point at which
price may diminish demand, and, if the market
is governed by the needs of civilian trade, that
point cannot be far away
“Some dress fabrics and men’s fancy cloths
already contain 50 per cent, of synthetic fibres,
and some cloths are made with an even higher
figure of ‘adulteration.’ But whether they
would be satisfactory from a consumer’s point
of view is doubtful, because no artificial fibre
has yet been produced which possesses the same
valuable properties as wool.
“It is significant, also, that, whatever claims
may be made for artificial fibres, no Govern-
ment has yet suggested that the cloth required
for Service wear should be anything but all-
wool It by no means follows that the price
of cloth and clothing can easily be kept down
simply by saying ‘use more artificial fibre’; it
is not available.”
London Observer: “Companies producing
and marketing wool will earn larger profits;
companies consuming wool are liable to be
hard hit; and companies producing possible
substitutes for wool, notably rayon, will meet a
greater demand for their products.”
London Daily Express: “Great companies
like Batons and Baldwins have been forced to
borrow millions from the banks to pay for
wool. Only last month they raised £3,000,000
to pay off the banks.
“Then they held another £3,000,000 of deben-
tures in reserve, should the price go on spiral-
ling. They are more than likely to need the
money, for their £10,000,000 of wool will now
cost £15,000,000 to replace.
“A quick check on Britain’s top ten mills
shows them carrying wool worth £23,000,000
at the old price. Today it will cost £35,000,000.”
Manchester Guardian: “The dearness of
wool (unlike some other commodities) is based
on inescapable commercial conditions to which
the textile trades can do nothing but adjust
themselves.”
The Scotsman: “Possibly the only way to
solve the problems created try the new level
of prices will be by international agreement
and control.”
All of which is mainly talking around
the essential point, which is that the world
is short of wool and- that non-Communist
and Communist European countries, all
alerted for war, are eager to buy wool
and to get in ahead of America, which
regards it as a No. 1 rearmament item.
America, plainly startled by the high
prices and the effect on retail prices as
well as Government buying for uniforms,
has suggested the allocation system men-
tioned by London “Economist,” and
heartily supported by London “Tribune”
because it smacks of Socialism, as a “very
sensible proposal.” This “Tribune” talks
of wool-sellers “exploiting” the con-
sumers, but it carefully omits any refer-
ence to the British Socialist Government’s
Wool Control, which “acquires” all the
wool grown in Britain at a fixed price and
then sells it on the open auction market.
This gave the Government a neat profit
of over £2,000,000 last year, and, as the
“Scotsman” points out, with the rise in
Australian prices the Attlees could easily
make 100 p.c. above the fixed prices paid
to the growers.
Mr. Menzies has announced that soar-
ing wool prices have prompted in Aus-
tralia a proposal which “will be perfectly
fair to woolgrowers, but will give some
protection to the rest of us.” Details will
be given in the Budget later this week.
Sabre-rattling at New Guinea
Having been elected to U.N.O. member-
ship arms-in-hand, the new Unitarian
State of Indonesia forthwith began “an
all-out offensive against Ambon Island,
centre of the independent South Moluccas
Republic.”
Ambon has been blockaded by Presi-
dent Soekarno’s forces from May onward,
on the ground that, since the South
Moluccas would not abandon their pre-
ference for local autonomy (previously
assured them under the federation agree-
ment which Soekarno tore up as soon as
made), they must be made to join the
new order by force. The blockade being
ineffective, “positive measures” against
the Ambonese as “rebels” were added.
These are presumably quite respectable in
a member of U.N.O. and not to be ques-
tioned, especially by any country belong-
ing to S.-E. Asia, in which category,
according to Pandit Nehru of India, Aus-
tralia is now placed. Australia is, he said
in Singapore a few months ago, “a com-
ponent unit of South-east Asia,” to which
all association with “Western colonialism”
is abhorrent. The plain English of this
is that Australia is regarded as no longer
belonging with the Western world, and
should give Soekarno whatever he asks
and have no truck with the Dutch.
Mr. Nehru was obliging enough on the
same occasion—it was on his return trip
from a visit to President Soekarno, one
of Japan’s late disciples in Greater South-
East Asia Co-Prosperity— to allow that
Australia’s position in Papua was “slightly
different” from the Netherlands’ in
Western New Guinea, whose incorpora-
tion within the Indonesian State was “in-
evitable.” How slight the difference may
be becomes a little important, for the
Indonesian head of the “fact-finding com-
mittee” on Dutch New Guinea declared
three weeks ago, in advance of pending
negotiations, that if Indonesia fails to
obtain Western New Guinea by con-
cession, “it stands to reason we must take
other measures.”
In other words, Western New Guinea
is to be treated as another Ambon, and
then, according to Soekarno’s past utter-
ances, will come the turn of Australian
New Guinea. Nehru’s “slight difference”
means little ; there is a “slight difference”
between Java and Ambon, and between
Ambon and New Guinea.
The season, too, is at hand. When
the Dutch-Indonesian conference on
Soekarno’s New Guinea demand stalled
at the end of March last, the local U.N.
Commission procured a breathing-space.
A joint Dutch-Indonesian fact-finding
commission would examine and report
by July, and both sides would study the
report till September, after which the con-
ference would reassemble. The military
operations to crush the Ambonese repre-
sent Soekarno’s approach to the con-
ference—and to New Guinea.
•• •. Meets an Immovable
Object.
One of the funniest “Labor” charges
against the Menzies Ministry is that “it
can’t make up its mind.” Leaving aside
the behavior of the Prime Minister him-
self, who has been acting rather like a
man who’s got something up his sleeve
and isn’t going to bring it out till he
is ready, the inability of the “Labor”
crowd to settle its own collective mind is
the outstanding feature of the times.
Mr. Arthur Calwell, whose jeer about
the advisory body’s “old men with
arthritic hands” got him smacked down
hard at pre-sessional A.L.P, meetings, is
not entirely out of luck. His forlorn
hope of a month ago, the swinging of
“the movement” to pass the anti-
Commo bill, looked not quite so forlorn
last week. True, the mighty Federal
A.L.P. executive had the cracks in its
authority patched up, for its hands also
were pretty arthritic, and was itself so be-
wildered by its own division of opinion
(50-50) on the issue that it could only
instruct caucus by the method of referring
the politicals back to the last occasion
(some months ago) on which it could
speak coherently. Whereupon Mr.
Chifley, who had sat in at the executive’s
meeting in order to screw the two W.A.
delegates’ courage to the sticking-place,
told caucus that the A.L.P. oracle had
spoken, that there would be no debate on
it and no disputing his ruling. His policy
all through this Commo-bill debate was
upheld, and caucus had got to take it and
like it.
But caucus didn’t like it even from “our
great leader,” nor did the Westralian
A.L.P. after the delegates got home. Had
they been misinformed about the feeling
in the east by Mr. Chifley during that
pre-conference visit of his to Perth to
make sure the Westralian delegates got
the right instructions for the conference?
At any rate, the western body declared
a change of mind and called for a defi-
nite pronouncement of the Federal execu-
tive leaving the decision to caucus on
whether the Senate should pass the
Commo bill or reject it.
The resulting commotion tore “solid-
arity” to shreds last week, bringing forth
“Labor” hints to the Press that obstruc-
tion of the bill was due not to malice but
to a desire to keep the situation fluid till
caucus should make up its mind. Of
course it is not quite so easy to about-
face in Canberra as in Perth. Mr.
Chifley’s personal flag would appear to
be nailed to the masthead or the yard-
arm or wherever else it is flown from.
If the Federal executive does not issue
the desired instruction, it will be flouting
its majority view ; if it does, caucus must
accept it on pain of flouting that party
rule which Mr. Chifley insisted upon pre-
viously ; and if caucus accordingly votes
for passing the bill, what happens to Mr.
Chifley as leader? Does he eat his words
about “the most iniquitous legislation ever
submitted to Parliament” and carry on
as leader of that course demand for
which earlier brought down Mr. Calwell’s
censure by the executive?
Mr. Chifley has fallen into the pit he
dug in 1948.
Maoriland's Sterling Problem.
From Auckland: What with buying and
selling of exchange, faked charges for
imports, bogus commissions and other
shady practices, Maorilanders have made
a welter of it in buying from Britain
under “no-remittance” licences since ex-
change-control was loosened a notch or
two four months ago. It’s another case
of water scouring out an ever-deepening
channel whenever it is given a chance to
get round the dam. Exchange barriers
in New Zealand have been under heavy
pressure from the rear ever since the
pound was revalued to sterling level, in
August, 1948, and what has happened
since May hasn’t surprised those who
knew the Dominion was making a rod
for its own back by giving anyone with
funds abroad the right to spend them on
a range of scarce items —above all motor-
cars. There was a rush to buy cars as
soon as the side-door was opened, and
motor-distributors were there cap in
hand to help because it was extra busi-
ness for them.
Immediate” shipment from the United
Kingdom was the big lure for car-hungry
Maorilanders who otherwise might have
to wait in the queue for years before
new models came their way, and as
it wasn’t necessary to pay more than a
deposit at the sterling end many who
hadn’t funds were quickly on the lookout
for a hundred or two. Anyone who
knew the rounds of investment was in a
position to oblige, and, it seems, many
did. Besides cars, there were sewing-
machines, watches and refrigerators
among the lines listed as privileged im-
ports under the arrangement, and hand-
some premiums were willingly paid for
London-domiciled securities, which were
the open-sesame to easy purchase. Wind-
falls came the way of sellers of funds —
tax-free, too.
For more than three months the Gov-
ernment watched with growing uneasiness,
until last month Prime Minister Holland
decided the time had arrived to speak
out. There was no reason why Maori-
landers shouldn’t be free to spend funds
they held abroad, but trading in exchange
was illegal and would have to stop, he
said, “We have tried to make trade easier,
but our experience in this direction has
not been satisfactory,” he warned, and
added: “We find people are writing to
their principals asking them to charge
an extra 2\ p.c. so that they can get ‘no-
remittance’ licences with the funds re-
leased to them. Others have been asking
their principals to charge extra com-
mission out of which funds can be built
up. This is what is going on, and I
regret to say there is an awful lot of it.
It is an offence to buy overseas funds,
as well as to sell them.”
If the Government doesn’t shut the
side door or back door, it won’t be long
before it becomes a habit with importers
to say to overseas suppliers, “Charge us
a bit more,” and the drain on exchange
funds might run into millions. It wouldn’t
matter if the country could spare the
funds, but it can’t. Mr. Holland says
New Zealand is struggling to live within
its income this year, even with an esti-
mated record of £2OO million to come in
from exports, and “scallywags” who
make a laughing-stock of exchange con-
trols could land it in trouble. As warn-
ings aren’t likely to bring much improve-
ment, Maorilanders have been left guess-
ing as to what the next move will be.
Tighter control of imports is the least
they expect.
More "Uncertain" Than Ever.
A social revolution that has been quietly
proceeding for the last 30 years has now
taken a turn full of alarming portents for
the lords of creation.
This particular revolution got its im-
petus in World War I. Until then in-
filtration of women into business and the
professions was slow. The suffragettes
were performing, girls and women were
working in some factories and a few
were in offices. Most of those who
worked for wages did it in the making of
garments, as cooks, waitresses, household
servants, nurses and teachers, usually for
wages which made marriage attractive
as a means of escape. Before 1914 the
average girl was trained for marriage and
nothing else. Once married she had to
stay in the home.
By 1918 thousands of girls in Britain,
America, Australia and elsewhere had
worked in munitions plants, as “land
girls,” in Government departments and in
a growing number of commercial offices
which had lost their men to war-service.
These women kept on working after that
war, and more and more of them ceased
to wait at home for some man to come
and marry them, went forth and began
to earn for themselves. At first the
daughters of the well-to-do looked down
on these “new women,” but soon they,
too, were seeking -“careers,” taking
college and university courses, setting up
their own businesses and so forth.
By 1939 the world had become familiar
with the independent working woman.
Commerce woke up to her buying-power.
Special trades were created to cater for
her needs. Advertising was being aimed
at her rather than him. Women’s papers
sprang up throughout the world like mush-
rooms—gorgeous productions beside
which the earlier journals and magazines
were as drab as ditchwater.
Then came World War 11, with its
Waafs and Waacs, Wrens and Waves,
Aamwas and the rest, women in
munitions and Government offices, work-
ing searchlights for ack-ack batteries,
flying about the world as secretaries to war
(Continued on next page.)


m
/ -
■2:
r
a|§^£:§j;
CRAVEN*
-fa
• •
&
A
D/30389
CARRERAS LIMITED -OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY,
chiefs, ambassadors, delegates, com-
missioners, sometimes delegates them-
selves, many of them war-correspondents
and radio-commentators —in everything
except the actual fighting and sometimes
even in that. We heard of women
guerrillas, of women secret agents dropped
into occupied territory and working with
underground movements (in the Palestine
troubles British soldiers stopped bullets
fired by Jewesses). This man’s world,
having gone to war, had to enlist women
to help. And none of what the dears
gained have they surrendered. Today
women still marry, but they keep their
jobs just the same.
The final blow to man’s prestige seems
to have come with a new development.
Middle-aged wives no longer fear their
husbands, nor will they endure domestic
life if the pair have ceased to love or the
burdens of housekeeping become too
much. Hardly a middle-aged woman of
today hasn’t, while a girl, worked in some
industry or profession and become com-
petent. If she wants to walk out and leave
husband and family she knows she can
get a job at once. The fear of poverty
which once haunted her, should she con-
template such a step, no longer exists.
To sum up, woman as we know her
has become practically independent of
man. From that it is only one stage to
a complete reversal of the traditional
roles and man becoming dependent on
woman.
POLITICAL POINTS
"‘Begorra,” said the Irishman, “I’m
spoiling for a fight. I’ll punch the head
off the first man that can catch me.”
That just about sums up Federal
“Labor’s” attitude on a double-dissolu-
tion. “We’re ready for it,” chirped
Chifley’s men in the Reps during the Red-
bill debate. But, judging by the tactics
of their colleagues in the Senate, it looks
as if they’ll have to be caught first.
When this went to the printer “Labor”
Senators were still trying to make up
their minds whether to shelve discussion
on the bill and risk an immediate Gov-
ernment bid for a double-dissolution on
the ground of “failure to pass” or
whether to debate it now and string out
the discussion as long as possible. Their
confusion had become a little more con-
founded by the action of the party’s
Westralian branch in asking that caucus
be allowed to decide its own policy on
the measure. It seemed likely that a
majority of the executive might agree
to this, which would mean a caucus battle
between the Chifley-Evatt-Ward section
of the party and the anti-Red group led
by Calwell, Keon and co., strengthened
by members who have seen the light since
the Korean war broke out and by the
shaky brethren whose principle is “Hang
principle! We want our seats.”
On Monday the air over Parliament
House, Canberra, was as full of ifs as a
game of consequences. If the matter
went to caucus and if caucus decided to
reverse its attitude on onus-of-proof,
what would Chifley do? Resign the
leadership or swallow what would be in
effect a vote of no-confidence in his com-
mand? One thing seemed certain: a vote
against Chifley would also be a vote
against domination of the party by the
New South Wales branch, which many
“Labor” men, inside and outside caucus,
think has lasted too long already, with
disastrous results to the party.
McGirr is supporting the recruiting
appeal after all; he turned up at the
Sydney Town Hall rally at which General
Herring opened the N. S. Wales cam-
paign ; his followers in the State Parlia-
ment were absent in a solid lump. A
belated conversion is better than none,
but McGirr’s tardiness contrasted poorly
with the response of “Labor” Premiers
Hanlon and Cosgrove, who were both
behind the scheme from the word “Go.”
The N. S. Wales Premier took a while
to think it over. Or was it that he had
to get permission?
Chifley graciously told caucus last
Wednesday that he could not stop party
members taking part in the recruiting
campaign if they wished to do so. Caucus
reciprocated the courtesy by endorsing
his decision not to help in the campaign
because men are being asked to volunteer
for service outside Australia. What sort
of a mob are these “Labor” members?
They believe in compulsory unionism,
compulsory education, compulsory voting
and a whole swag of other compulsory
thises and thats, yet the defence of the
country must be left to volunteers. This
despite the fact that only a handful of
the whole boiling of ’em ever volunteered
for anything in their lives. But the
volunteers must not be asked to offer for
service abroad —that’s militarism, or
Imperialism, or something equally revolt-
ing to the delicate caucus stomach.
Canberra correspondents of the two
Sydney morning papers have suggested
that “Labor,” by using its Senate majority,
may be able to force a referendum on
price-control against the wishes of the
Government. This is quite wrong and
is based upon a careless reading of
Section 128 of the Constitution, which
provides that
if either House passes any such law by an
absolute majority, and the other House
rejects or fails to pass it the Governor-
General may submit the proposed law
to the electors.
The Governor-General acts on the advice
of his Ministers. There is no provision
or precedent for his accepting advice
from the Opposition. To do so would
be equivalent to dismissing his Govern-
ment.
The McDonald-Cains got their Upper
House Reform Bill through without any
protest from Hollway’s crowd and were
so astonished by the Opposition’s silence
that about all McDonald could say was
that a referendum would be held before
the Leg. Council was abolished, and Leg.
Councillors’ screws would go up another
£3OO. Under the new measure the Upper
House will now be elected by adult fran-
chise, about 800,000 Victorians thus being
given a. say. The McDonald-Cains obvi-
ously expect to collect those votes. Well,
we’ll see.
Back from Ceylon comes High Com-
missioner Frost, one of the 1946 crop
of “Labor” election-casualties for whom
the Chifley Government found jobs on
the national payroll. He had 18 months
of his five-year term still to go, but the
Menzies Government, while claiming it
was under no legal obligation to do so,
asked him to accept his salary for the
balance of the period as an ex gratia
payment and call it a day. He’s doing
so. Let’s see: wasn’t there another bloke
sent to Canada or somewhere?
It seems that the “Labor” Govern-
ment in N. S. Wales doesn’t even trust
itself ; it has introduced a bill which pro-
vides that the life of Parliament cannot
be extended beyond three years without
a referendum. No one has ever sought
such an extension, and there is no record
of anyone having even suggested it, but
the Government professes to feel that it
is necessary “to safeguard democratic
rights.”
The British Labor Government had no
sooner taken office in 1945 than prophets
began foretelling Attlee’s resignation
from the leadership, yet he’s still as
firmly in the saddle as ever. The seers
have also had Foreign Secretary Ernest
Bevin on the brink of resigning a score
of times. At the Margate conference last
week he survived another attack —it came
from Left-wing snipers prating the Soviet
line of talk. Bevin fought back strongly,
told his critics that not one of them
would have put up with the abuse he had
taken from Molotov and Vyshinsky, and
asked them why they condoned the ab-
duction of Greek children, the war of
nerves on Turkey and the blockade of
Berlin? When conference voted Bevin’s
attackers were beaten hollow. Yet these
strange Socialists who don’t like Com-
munism closed their conference, “as cus-
tomary,” with the singing of “The Red
Flag.”
Herbert Morrison went to the British
Labor-party conference at Margate last
week, rejected a motion aimed to cut
by half the compensation paid to former
owners of “nationalised” industries, then
added, “Taxation of the rich is another
matter. All sorts of tempting things open
themselves to Socialist eyes.” Other
people’s property has always been a
temptation to Socialists.
Last week Mr. Hal Alexander of the
Actors’ Equity forbade ballet girls to take
part in the recruiting drive in Sydney
unless they received pay for the job.
Putting aside the value of a display of
ballet dancing as an incentive to enlist-
ment, the Equity move was obviously
made not in the interests of the actresses,
but of the anti-recruiting cause. Mr.
Justice Lowe in his findings as a Royal
Commissioner of Inquiry into Com-
munist activities wrote last year:
Sharpley’s allegation that Alexander was
a Communist is, I think, established.
Alexander himself did not give evidence.
Diamond (Victorian secretary of Equity)
had been a member of the party, but denied
that he was any longer one. I am not
satisfied that he was, when he gave evidence,
a Communist, but 1 have no doubt he was
very well disposed towards the party. Two
other members of Actors’ Equity who were
prominent in the conduct of its meetings
were said to be Communists —Keith Eden
and Lloyd Lamble. Eden denied that he
was a Communist. The evidence satisfies
me that Lamble is a member and that
Eden is sympathetic to the C.P.
The Federal Government is consider-
ing the appointment of a judge to investi-
ate an alleged Communist plot to retard
Australian steel-production. Mr. Holt
says that there is evidence of a plan to
achieve the sabotage of the industry most
vital to defence by the production of a
series of short disputes, and that “there
appeared to be a definite link between
sporadic stoppages in B.H.P. coalmines
and a hold-up of ships carrying steel from
Newcastle.” Communists had “singled
out B.H.P. mines” and there had been a
“marked increase in waterfront trouble
during the past weeks.” The appointment
of a judge to hold an inquiry was sug-
gested by the Coal Industry Tribunal, Mr.
F. H. Gallagher. It would be a salutary
move if the Government at the same time
took the bull by the horns and inquired
how far the influence of these Communist
agents of the Kremlin has penetrated into
political organisations.
If the wool-men keep bombarding
Federal members with telegrams about
revaluation and wool-tax proposals and
the Commos keep wiring ’em to ban the
atom bomb there’ll be no need for the
P.M.G. to increase post and telegraph
charges. His deficit will be wiped out.
Federal Speaker Archie Cameron left
for England by Qantas Constellation on
Saturday night to attend the opening of
the new House of Commons. His choice
of reading matter for the journey—three
volumes of Esme Wingfield-Stratford’s
story of the Parliamentary conflicts of the
reign of Charles I seem to augur a stern
determination to study British Parlia-
mentary discipline while abroad. If he
introduces the House of Commons
variety when he returns many Canberra
members will think they have been hit
by an atom-bomb.
Brisbane, according to its Lord Mayor
Chandler, is likely to have water restric-
tions every summer for years ahead. The
city population increases, but the City
Council can’t get material for expanding
its water reservoirs or laying more mains
and reticulation pipes. Shipping is part
of the trouble, coal-shortage and the con-
sequent falling steel production the main
causes. Yet some people seem to think
it’s all Mr, Menzies’s fault.
Victoria’s temporary Government in-
tends to set up a Ministry of Fuel next
year (if still in office), also a Hard Fuel
Commission “to control production and
distribution of black and brown coal, oil,
coke, briquettes and firewood.” Avoiding
such academic questions as how hard is
fuel-oil, McDonald justifies the new
department on the grounds that “the
importance of fuel will grow in the next
few years, making it essential that there
should be some definite control.” This is
the man who till a short time ago was
against controls. But, of course, he was
against “Labor” then; now he depends
on “Labor” support for his job.
Victorian Egg Board inspectors can
enter poultrymen’s premises to inspect
eggs and egg-pulp, which are “com-
modities” under the Act. They can’t
enter to count the “adult domesticated
female fowls” because the Act doesn’t
recognise them as “commodities.” The
board tried to get the latter power with-
out telling the State Government about it
and the Government fell on it like a ton
of bricks. “No board will be given per-
mission to enter and search people’s
homes without a warrant,” declared
Premier McDonald. A small thing, per-
haps, but every freedom-loving person
should cherish it in these days of bureau-
cratic expansion.
Colin Clark, the outspoken economist
who runs Queensland’s Bureau of Indus-
try, has had something to say lately on
the subject of new States. He advocates
a policy which would regard “the setting-
up of new States as a continuous pro-
cess” ; he visualises divisions “about the
size and status of Tasmania.” Premier
Hanlon is quoted by the “Courier-Mail”
as agreeing with the principle of new
States, but “not until we get population
in North Queensland, Northern Territory
and the north of Western Australia.”
That’s all very well, but when Queens-
land was separated from New South
Wales its population was only 23,520;
at the last census Townsville alone
mustered 34,000.
One of the reasons advanced for
Sydney’s ever-recurring blackouts is that
equipment ordered in Britain for Bun-
nerong power-house is years behind de-
livery, yet, according to London “Daily
Telegraph,” since the end of the war
Britain has sent to Russia 34 complete
power-stations.
Sydney people are hopefully waiting
for the next fellow from the country who
complains about country roads. They
propose to drop him gently into any one
of the million caves, chasms and pot-
holes which now distinguish Sydney
roads.


«?.CI
THE FACE AT THE WINDOW.
"All State Premiers, ‘Labor’ and otherwise, have agreed to support recruiting. Mr. Chifley has refused.”
“You’ll be sorry!”


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
"‘Hamer”: Not one man in a crowd of
the horny-handed gathered round a street
accident was able to produce a pocket-
knife, needed to help free a man whose
clothes were caught
in the wreckage. The
incident emphasises
the change in smok-
ing habits since 40-
50 years ago when
every man needed a
pocketknife to cut
his own weed from
the plug or the “navy
twist,” and the pur-
chase of cut tobacco
was regarded as
sissy. It was sissy,
too, to use safety-
matches. They were for women in the
home; the he-man required a wax-
match that he could strike on a handy
wall or the seat of his pants. Cigarettes
were for a long time
an object of con-
tempt or dark sus-
picion. Pictures and
comic - strips still
carry on some of the
old superstitions on
the subject. The
honest - to - goodness
pipe is still a sign
of integrity and hero-
ism in the smoker,
and the villain can be identified at the
beginning by the way he lights up a fag
before he starts to develop his wicked
purposes.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: We were discussing
the battle for Crete, and Ted, who saw
as much as anyone of the show, was
surprised to find that, after the lapse of
years, the feature that remained clearest
in his memory was the cut lunch carried
by each German paratrooper. Those
lunches were something out of the bag:
Ham sandwiches (machine-cut), dried figs
and raisins. They dispelled the idea that
Jerry lived on concentrates, and they
revealed a flaw in the enemy’s Intelli-
gence. He apparently thought the island
was undefended; the first troops were
sent to occupy it and prepare bases.
Practically every paratrooper who landed
during the first two days was wiped out —
and his cut lunches liquidated.
* * * *
Old Unionist”: Old Charlie has come
back to his toil at the works, having,
it is said, given the bookies the £6OOO
he and his missus won in the Lottery,
although certainly he paid off the mort-
gage on his home and sundry t.-p. obliga-
tions. In strict confidence Charlie told
me that he was not really such a mug
as to let his money go into the bookies’
bags. Most of it is intact, a comfortable
nest-egg for whenever it may be needed.
But coming to work at 7.30, watching the
clock to knock-off a few minutes before
the right time and having a few drinks
with his pals before going home had be-
come his life; he got sick of staying at
home looking for odd jobs to do, and
his wife got sick of seeing him there.
He would rather have his mates think
him mug enough to lose the money at
the races —it certainly makes him a sort
of sporting hero —than that he is mug
enough to prefer work to idleness. Such
is the distorted sense of values in these
“modern” times.
* * * *
“F.S.”; Cabled that in an international
exhibition of paintings by lunatics in
Paris, the dark shadows, hideous shapes
and sombre colors of the pictures repre-
sent the terrible anxieties of their authors
“You look prime, missus !”
On the other hand, the French artist who
assembled the pictures said there was
nothing original about them ; when they
were symbolical the symbols were of the
most conventional description. This
almost sounds like an account of a show
of pictures painted by perfectly sane
moderns. A young man of my acquaint-
ance had dreams of being a great com-
poser, so he bought a tuning-fork and,
after listening to it for hours, began
shaping in his head a tremendous sym-
phony. It never got down on paper, for
the simple reason that he had never taken
the trouble to learn musical notation,
let alone how to play the fiddle or the
piano. Next he decided to be a poet.
He would put a potato on the table and
contemplate it. After a couple of hours
he would look up and say to his wife:
“A potato baked, a mashed A
potato peeled, a potato impeel®'*- I h ow
do you think that goes?” Dissatisfied
with his progress in tms direction, ne
bought paints, canvases and brushes and
set out to paint the visions that came into
his head. His third or fourth attempt
was hailed ecstatically by several critics,
one of whom analysed it as “an amor-
phous expression of semi-complete intro-
spection into a disintegrated personality
which shows great promise.” My friend
is not mad, any more than was the critic.
He merely has an erroneous conception
of what art is, and, as it is a perfectly
fashionable conception, shared by pro-
fessors of fine art, lecturers in art appreci-
ation and even National Gallery teachers,
there is no reason why he shouldn’t
eventually win an Archibald Prize.
* * * *
“Bo”: The New Australian from one
of the Central European countries whom
one of the girls had brought to the party
had great difficulty, when someone asked
him what he did, in making himself
understood. Eventually it transpired that
he “mak’ seengs,” but for the exact things
he made he couldn’t find the word. Co-
opting the use of his hands in a desperate
effort, he succeeded at last in conveying
that the “seengs” were of rounded shape,
and followed it up with quite a linguistic
burst: “Wizzolesinem.” Round things
with holes in them. That started a guess-
ing competition, and a bright young thing
immediately suggested doughnuts. This
brought a vigorous nod and an excited
“Ess!” from the N.A. Laughing con-
gratulations were being showered on the
b.y.t. on her perspicacity when Miklos
added: “Zomtime I—whadsay?—put
’andle on ’em.” They’re still wondering
what he does turn out.
“Pandanus”: Mention of pyjamas as
street-wear (B. 13/9/’5O) reminded Pop
of the time he and his pal, on Christmas
leave, got off the Sydney express at
Albury for an early-morning snack. The
train steamed off without them, and two
very self-conscious young men spent
Christmas Day travelling in their pyjamas
on the slowest excursion train that ever
crawled from Albury to Melbourne.
* * * *
“L.R.”: My humble association with
Jan Smuts was during the German East
African campaign when he commanded
mixed forces from Britain, South Africa
and India against the widely-scattered
German and Askari troops. In the 1916
“wet” season some of us attached to H.Q.
staff were “marking time” on the lower
slopes of Kilimanjaro. The General’s
spare but active figure, mostly un-
attended, could often be seen tramping
about, between drenching showers, ex-
amining, with the eye of one brought up
on a Boer farm, the soil and tropical
growth. My outstanding recollection of
Smuts is his plain, quiet way of speaking,
his religious convictions and his talk of
irrigation and crops. With the ending of
the “wet” he again became the efficient
Commander-in-Chief, eventually bringing
that difficult campaign to a successful
ending.
“Tassy”; At Modderfontein, Cape
Colony, on September 23, 1901, I was
one of a patrol of Brown’s Scouts
attached to the 17th Lancers ambushed
and taken prisoner by Smuts’s Com-
mando. As some of the Boers
were Cape Colony rebels and liable
to be shot as traitors if caught, they
thought it a good opportunity to take it
out on us ; they began clubbing us with
“Put your brakes on or you'll hit the house."
their rifle-butts and stripping some of
the prisoners of their uniforms. Fortu-
nately Smuts, with some of his staff, came
on the scene, and with a sjambok well
applied on his men saved the situation
for us.
* * * *
“Ancient Scribe”: So “Billy T.” (B.
6/9/’5O) missed the big party at the
“house on the hill” merely because he
had no back-stud. Judging him to be a
writing man of some sort, I ask; Didn’t
he have even one brass paper-fastener
anywhere? As a stop-gap stud the old
split paper-fastener stands alone. Scores
of times I have attended stiff-collar
functions with a brass-fastener doing duty
back and front. And I knew a fellow-
scribbler who went one better. In the
starched-shirt days of Kalgoorlie it was
fashionable to adorn the buttonholes down
the front with a line of gold studs. My
mate never missed ; given a touch of
brasso two bold brass fasteners shone
like the finest product of the Golden
Mile.
* * * *
“Jobber”: A.I.F. men charged with
murder (B. 13/9/’50)? There were two
of these birds coming home on a troop-
ship, and the padre used to go down
most days and have a yarn with them.
One of them, the tougher of the two,
was in for skittling a gendarme, and when
the ship reached Melbourne he was being
taken ashore under strong guard. He
spotted the padre at the head of the
gangway and yelled, “Good-bye, Padre.
You’ve been a good sort —just like one
of ourselves!”
~ * * ♦
“Stir Joe”: The warders of Parkhurst
Prison, Isle of Wight, thought they had
a model prisoner in one J. Purton, who
spent most of his prison leisure in athletic
training and won the prison high-jump,
broad-jump, pole-vault and two-mile race.
Then he vaulted the walls, and the only
way they could catch him was to run him
down in relays. It took seven days to
do it, and then he confessed he had
trained for that very purpose and, if he
had got clear, was also trained to swim
the Solent to the mainland.
»jj
“Kelms”: Every time a shipload
of D.Ps. reaches Fremantle I look
for an announcement that included in the
batch is a Bavarian housewife. If one
ever arrives and is prepared to make
bread in the good old-fashioned manner
of her country, she’ll make a fortune and
put Australian bakeries out of business.
Why can't we have bread that will keep?
Australian p.-0.-w. who were quartered
with the Bavarian peasants were amazed
when breadmaking day came around.
From the huge heap of dough the
farmer’s wife made perhaps a dozen big
scone-shaped loaves weighing anything
up to eight pounds each. After being
baked in the big oven they were placed
on the racks to cool. They were left in
the open until they were eaten. One
baking lasted the household about five
weeks. And the last loaf tasted as fresh
and sweet as the first.
* * *•
“Harold Hardupp”: Onfe of the un-
considered risks of a cop’s life has been
experienced by a John who is seen no
more in our district. He was sent to
arrest a woman who had failed to answer
a subpoena ; he effected the painful busi-
ness with such becoming courtesy that
the lady fell in love with him. Hers was
no passive passion ; she called regularly
to try to see him at the police-station and
used to leave small gifts of flowers, fruit
and sweets. She waylaid him in the
streets and, when she heard that he was
married, wrote letters to his wife sug-
gesting a financial arrangement if s h e
would part with him. Threats f 3 " 6 * 3 t 0
curb her, and her relatives, who said that,
however mad she was on this subject, sh-
was sane enough on others, refused to
co-operate. His superiors say that his
transfer to the country was a routine
matter and had nothing to do with is
desire to escape the lady. His colleagues
aren’t so sure.
ARGOSY.
“Neville Cardue is travelling with the M.C.C. team
aboard E.M.JS. Stratheden.”
Over the bright, the bounding sea,
Comes Cardus with the M.C.C.;
“Stratheden” painted on the prow
Has maybe changed to "Argos” now,
With metaphoric sails outspread
Above the travelling reader's head:
And willow bats make timely splashes
As Cardus paddies towards tne Golden Ashes.
The air redounds with sporting cliches,
And adjectival flying-fishes;
Mermaids regard the progress dreamily,
Attired in nothing but a simile,
And hum a brisk Hungarian czardas
In hopes of being found by Cardus,
While dawns and sunsets and the like
Shut up their shops and go on strike —
This Daylight-Saving Neptune planned,
For Cardus waves tn either hand
The Light that Never Was on Sea or Land.
Meanwhile, Australians wait and shiver;
Contraltos blanch, sopranos quiver;
Town Hall organs’ airy guns
Are charged with murderous trills and runs.
And, to the tympanis’ dread sound,
The bands invade the Cricket Ground, .
Opposing violins and pipes v
To batteries of linotypes, —
And thus await the bodeful day
When Cardus says, “Eh, lads, start play.”
But what may happen on that field,
And who will win, and who will yield,
Is not for simple folk, who watch
What once was called a cricket match,
To say, until allowed to look
At next day’s paper, or forthcoming booooook.
n.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


“Exdig”: During World War I there
were always a few Diggers from the
camps in England to greet the arrival of
reinstoushments at the nearest station.
Life with the Diggers followed a pattern ;
many of them arrived in England well-
cashed with the gifts presented to them at
farewells in Australia ; they were given
disembarkation-leave, on which they
acted like mil-
lionaires ; they
returned to
camp broke
and eager to
meet anyone
who came with
funds from
Australia and
could be in-
duced to share
them. They
softened-up their intended victims by
banter about being slow to “hear the
bugle,” The next process was to flatter
them about their gameness in coming
over after the papers had told them just
how bad the war was ; then came the
offer to put them wise to camp-life—
beginning, of course, at the canteens. At
the tail-end of one troop of new arrivals
which detrained at Dorrington and
marched up the road towards Lark Hill
trailed a poor figure of a soldier who
looked all the worse because his uniform
was much too big for him. Two Diggers
sitting on the fence chortled at the sight.
“Blime,” said one of them, recalling Andy
Fisher’s phrase, “they’ve sent the last
man.” “Looks like it,” agreed his mate,
“Perhaps they’ve sent the last shilling with
him. Let’s ask him.” Which they did —
with results that paid dividends in the
canteen.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”; My warmest glow when
recalling my experiences as a Digger of
World War I is roused by the memory
of the crowds assembled all along the
line from Dover to London to cheer the
hospital-train as it passed through. At
“Could you put on a blackout? My deep-freeze unit has gone mad.”
the time I made that journey the war had
been going on for four years; the trains
passed daily, and giving a cheer to the
wounded must have become a monoton-
ous sort of duty. The monotony was
unrelieved by any chance of a talk to any
of the returning wounded. Yet the
thought that the wounded deserved that
cheer, and it would show them that their
service was appreciated, kept going some-
thing which was great because it was so
trifling.
%
“Sack”: Spiritualism (B. 20/9/’50)?
In my early ’twenties I had a bout of it.
At the third meeting I attended the
medium sought to deliver a message from
somebody on “the other side.” I didn’t
know the gent, who wished to send me
the cheerio call; both the medium and
I were disappointed. Two or three meet-
ings later a woman medium “contacted”
my brother Fred. I pointed out that I
had never had a brother Fred. The lady
was inclined to argue about it. “I'm
getting it so strongly,” she declared.
Finally she compromised—-my brother
may have never actually lived, but if he
had he would have been named Fred.
Questioned on the matter, my parents
assured me that I had never nearly had
one more brother, and in any case no
child of theirs would ever have been
called Fred. At the last meeting I
attended a medium informed me that I
had an Indian guide, who watched over
me very carefully. I also had the gift
of healing by the laying-on of hands.
The latter gilt I tried out the first time
my young brother had a headache. After
five minutes he assured me the pain had
become immeasurably worse. As for the
guide who allegedly looks after my in-
terests —well, he certainly seems to go off
duty at some awkward moments.
♦ * * *
“Findy”: Generally speaking, children
are pretty conservative in their games,
but they do seem to infuse a certain
amount of topicality into them. When I
was first old enough to join in the ancient
game of Goodies and Baddies some of
my seniors were still calling the opposing
sides British and Boers, but within a year
or so this nomenclature faded out, as
doubtless others had before it, giving
way to the one which had stood the test
of time for centuries—French and
English. Not for long, though. Kaiser
Bill erupted and our mock battles, taking
their pattern from the real thing, became
struggles between Allies and Germans,
with an occasional Johnny Turk thrown
in. By the time that war was over I had
passed the age for rushing around point-
ing sticks at people and saying “Bang!
You’re dead!” and for a generation I lost
track of the game. During the Pacific
war I saw many a doughty duel of Japs
and Aussies fought out in my own back-
yard, and until recently that war was still
on as far as my youngsters were con-
cerned. Now they’ve caught up with
events. As I arrived home one afternoon
last week a small boy dashed up the side
of the house, vaulted a low fence and
stood on the front lawn, panting but
triumphant, as two of my sons, toy pistols
in hand, came galloping up in pursuit.
“They can’t touch me here,” he explained,
pointing to the fence. “That’s the 38th
Parallel.” That, as I said, was a week
ago. By now they have probably had to
alter the rules again.
* * * *
“Clooter”: In the days of the “silent”
pictures they were frequently blamed for
juvenile crime, and when they were suc-
ceeded by the talkies the same charges
were made—even magistrates and judges
including in penalties on youthful
offenders an injunction to stay away from
picture-theatres. What is to happen with
television, when crime plays, westerns and
the rest of it come to the screen in the
home? Suppose the parents want to see
a television show not suitable—in their
opinion—for the kids? Will the kids be
shut out of the room? Will secret looking
become a feature of home life? These
questions are prompted by a story from
Philadelphia (U.S.A.), where a hitherto
normal wife and mother, after seeing her
first “Hopalong Cassidy” show on tele-
vision, galloped out, armed herself with
six-guns and opened up on her husband,
He, wounded physically and no doubt
emotionally, called for police, whereupon
the lady produced a rifle, yelled “Yippee”
and bombarded the officers. She had an
ally in her 10-year-old son, who sup-
ported her with cap-pistols. It ought to
make every married man ponder long
before introducing television into the
“ Hair-raising? It’s ruining my perm.!”
home, for who among us can say that his
missus hasn’t got something against him.
* * * *
“Zake”: The Bumbles who collect my
municipal rates every year, and every 10
years or so condescend to let me have
fourpence in the pound back as services
by filling in a few potholes in our street,
have set their faces strongly against any
possibility of having a charge of over-
statement levelled against them. After
torrential rain an approach to a road
bridge collapsed, taking with it about
20ft. of footpath. During the seven weeks
or so it took council employees to do the
work of reconstruction that a private con-
tractor would have cleaned up in four
days, a big notice stood at the edge of
the gaping aperture, flanked by a battery
of red lamps. It said, “Danger: Loose
Gravel.”
* * * *
“Mark Heim”: “Bumpkin” (B.
27/9/’5O) falls into a common error in
thinking that authority in Columbus’s day
thought the earth flat; the sphericity of the
earth was by then generally accepted by
educated men. Globes were known and
used, although, because of a gross
error in projection, they made the distance
between the Atlantic coast of Europe and
the coast of Asia much less than it really
was. There was also a map, drawn by
Toscanelli, a doctor and an astronomer,
which showed Japan to be about where
the eastern seaboard of North America is.
Columbus seems to have accepted this
error. In 1486, when he brought his
proposals before the Government of
Castile, learned men who were consulted
argued that the distance between Spain
and Asia by a western route was much
more than Columbus was allowing for.
They were right. Where Columbus
deemed Asia to be, and named errone-
ously the West Indies, was, in fact, a
totally new land which neither he nor his
critics had allowed for.
•I*
“S.W.K.”; Among the world’s greatest
expressions of unbounded optimism I
would place first the statement of an
Anglican minister which has appeared in
his denomination’s official paper. In it
he makes the suggestion that it might be
a good thing to limit marriages in church
“to people who have been confirmed and
are regular communicants.” If the
minister expects unanimous shrieks of
approval of his scheme from the clergy
of his own or any other church he’s going
to wait a long time for them. The stipend
of the general incumbent —the rectors of
the kirks in the society suburbs are a
class apart—in most cases approximates
about half what a wharflaborer earns
even with a month or two off for the
average annual quota of strikes.
Marriage-fees loom large in making ends
meet in these inflationary times, and of
all marriages consecrated in churches
much more than half are of non-church-
goers.
* * * *
“Z.”: N.S.W. professional fisher-
men, who, with snapper selling at a regular
2s. 6d. a pound and with other lines so
dear as to keep them off the tables of all
except plutocrats, should be running
around in Rolls-Royces, tried vainly to
have the sport of speargun-fishing
banned. Their chief argument was that
this style of “fishing” was “doing
irreparable harm to the netting-grounds,”
and that the gunners, “moving about
underwater, drove away fish.” No one
but an idiot would, with a speargun, go
out from the shore—usually one where
there’s a reef—deeper than up to his
chest, for around rocks in deep water
often lurk the tiger and the grey-nurse,
Where the usual spear-gunner operates
no pro. fisherman would think of casting
his net, anyway. And in any case the
fish these chaps spear are usually big
enough to get a good look at, and that
isn’t the undersized one that some
amateur anglers with the regulation gear
fail to toss back. The whole attitude of
the pro. to the spear-gunner boils down
to this: he gets fish, and anyone who
lands a fish from the sea that the pro-
fessional fisherman has come to regard
as his own personal property is to be
condemned,
* * * ♦
“Yair”: Down near Rushcutter’s Bay
Stadium one pouring-wet day I spotted
a quaint quartet —two men and a little
girl standing well away from the wall of
a closed doorway and, behind them,
carefully kept in the only bit of shelter
available, a greyhound! The little girl
was already sneezing violently, but the
dawg behind everyone’s legs just yawned
with boredom.
* * * ♦
“Aestur”: Fire recently destroyed the
century-old Lufra Hotel at Eaglehawk
Neck on the Speck’s south-east coast.
Lufra was the name of a barque that
sailed between England and Tassie, and
was also the name of one of the savage
dogs chained on the narrow neck to
prevent convicts escaping from Port
Arthur. Just below where the hotel stood
is the famous “tessellated pavement”—a
large flat stretch of rock split into a
mosaic of fairly regular rectangles—and
at the other end of the neck rises a hill
called Mt. Cash, after the bushranger
Martin Cash, reputed to have had a hide-
out there. For 40 years the hotel was
run by the Nuroo family ; old Mr. Nuroo
now lies in a lonely cemetery on a grassy
bank of land that juts into Pirate’s Bay
not far from the site of the old hotel.
* * * ♦
“B. A. Ker”: The trump’s prodigal son
had returned to the homestead, but the
only emotion that stirred the mob was
sympathy for the fatted calf. “The city
changes blokes,” Old Ted declared. No-
body challenged the statement; Joe alone
seemed doubtful: “Well, / thought that
once, but I was wrong. You wouldn’t
remember Wharton’s son? I knew him
when he could
walk under a
cow’s belly with-
out bending. Nice
kid, young Stinko.
Grew up a big,
good - natured
young fellow.
Wharton must
have made it
pretty hot for
Stinko to clear
out, but the next
thing I heard was
that he’d joined the Force in Sydney.
Nearly 10 years later I came to Sydney
for the Show. I’d just come out of the
pub I was staying at when who should I
nearly bump into but young Wharton.
‘How y’ doing, Stinko?’ I says, giving
him a slap on the back that rattled his
teeth. For a few seconds he looked
stunned, then —well, it dawned on me that
I was being lumbered. We were half-way
to the station before I could talk him
out of it. ‘All right,’ he snaps. ‘Get!
But don’t come at that any more!’ The
farewell he gave me had me sitting on a
cushion for a month.” Old Ted grunted.
“The city had changed him, eh?” he said
Joe shook his head. “No; I only
thought it had—it wasn’t Stinko.”
A METEOROLOGICAL “CERT.”
“Dr. Vincent Schaffer, the first scientist to produce
a man-made snowstorm, wants a special U.N.O. com-
mission formed to use scientists all over the world
to regulate the weather.”
The General Assembly at
The talking-shop at Lake Success
Has made it quite apparent that
Most thinking’s based on tortuousness.
Asked for a straight-out “No” or “Yes”
Whereby some doubt may be resolved,
With endless verbiage they’ll digress,
They’ll maunder on in terms involved.
With language slow, or frenzied screech,
They forge ahead, much like the hound
Who tries his caudal-piece to reach
By whizzing dizzily around.
The Iron Curtain mob are found
Grouped round their Soviet boss, all smirks,
The smash-grab viewpoint to propound,
To toss a spanner in the works.
So veto-ridden from its birth,
U.N. you may not nominate
The varied weather of our Earth
Successfully to regulate.
To order cyclones to vacate
Forbidden regions, or to ban
Some dust-storm passing Bogan Gate
From reaching Coonabarabran.
For this supreme, stupendous task
Of lording heavenly winds now free,
Who better fitted, may I ask,
Than U.N., whose authority
Can thus be tested properly,
Regardless, too, of all expense.
With this contention you’ll agree:
They’ve never lacked experience.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Kelms”: Black cockatoos are again
raiding Westralian orchards, and one
harassed owner has an idea—meteoro-
logical balloons floated about 60ft. from
the ground with
streamers and
ribbons attached
to the lead wires
to act as scare-
crows. I doubt
if the scheme
would work. The
cockatoo is easily
frightened, to the
extent that it takes
very little to put
him in the air, but
a shot-gun bar-
rage won’t scare
him permanently
from a source of good food. Hunger
stifles fear, and those birds are hungry.
Each new acre of clearing reduces their
field of natural food, and if an acre of
gums is replaced by an acre of fruit-
trees, the fruit suffers. Extermination is
the only solution —that’s what will hap-
pen, anyway, if some means is found of
denying the birds their food; and the
likeable black bird has a lot of friends.
Still, the orchardists have a good case.
They reckon that a sizeable flock can
account for 50 to 100 cases in 10 minutes.
* * V
“Mat’s Mate”: The cove we went to
see about the fencing contract was one
of those genial chaps. “Eighty quid a
mile,” he said, “an’ y’ can have your
meat free. There’s a good hut, with table
and chairs an’ a shower-room at the
back. Have y’ got all the tools y 5 want?
“ Don't forget, sport, you're to put me in the colonel's squad, ’cos
I want a red pugaree."
I can lend y’ what y’re short of. We
go into town every Saturday, an’ y’re
welcome t’ come in the car.” I was all
for it, but Mat looked round the place
and said, “Who’s here beside you?”
“Only the missus,” said the boss. “Do
y ’ go t’ church much?” Mat asked,
The° boss laughed. “The missus does
sometimes, but she’ll never drag me
in ” Mat looked thoughtful. “Box
posts an’ you put ’em on the line?”
“Yes.” “Four wires an’ a barb ; five
posts t’ the chain?” “That’s right; will
y’ take it on?” Mat frowned again.
“Let y’ know in a hour,” he said, and
drew me aside. “What are y’ waitin’
for?” I demanded. “It’s a sweet cop.”
“That’s the trouble,” Mat said. “It’s so
flamin’ sweet it’s sticky. Y’ never know
where y’ are with these sweet cops.” We
took it on. A month later, with the job
about half-done, Mat’s suspicions lulled,
and on a fine Sunday afternoon the boss
invited us to go with him on a visit to
his brother, 45 miles away. As the car
drew into the brother’s homestead three
grown girls appeared on the veranda. “1
knew dam’ well there was a catch some-
where,” Mat grunted almost accusingly
at me.
* * * *
“C.A.L.”; One of the strangest shoot-
ing fatalities occurred when I was out on
the Darling (N.S.W.) some years ago.
That the old boundary-rider had been
shot while sitting in front of his hut fire
was beyond doubt, though a motive for
shooting couldn’t be found. He had no
enemies, and absence of short-arms, and
his rifle still in the skillion where he slept,
ruled out suicide. The bullet had entered
his chest, and the report of the Sydney
ballistics expert was that the type of
weapon which fired the slug was un-
known, as it bore no sign of rifling. Also,
what puzzled the policeman and station-
manager carrying out investigations was
a burnt spoon and a short length of green
nelia-wood, shaped for a stockwhip-
handle, lying on the floor near the body.
When the authorities admitted they were
“stumped” a blacktracker was put on
the job. It didn’t take him long to get
results, and he indicated that the nelia-
wood was the lethal weapon. By the
blacktracker’s sound reasoning, the victim
had been trying to load the green stick
to give it weight for a stockwhip-handle
by boring a hole in it. When he poured
the molten lead into the hole, however,
the hot lead had caused gas to form in
the green timber and this, escaping, had
shot the lead out with such force that it
penetrated the old chap’s chest.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver had been
down buying himself a few new shirts
and socks, and on his return sat on the
hut step, unusually silent. I tried rally-
ing him with the local news. “Bit of
excitement down the road today,” I
related. “Know that bloke that comes
round selling clothes an’ things? Well,
he called at Bill Anderson’s. Bill was
talking to him out near his bus when he
dropped dead.” Seventyfiver didn’t look
up. “They had to race down-country for
a John,” I continued. “And get a doctor.
Heart, I think, but a bit of a shock to
everybody. No one expected him to go
like that.” “Aw, I ain’t surprised, Sol,”
Seventyfiver stirred himself. “Not when
y’ know. Only thing beats me is that
there ain’t more trouble like that.”
“Don’t see why. Anyway, they’ve sent
word to his folks.” “Yair? Didn’t know
old Bill Anderson had any folks,”
Seventyfiver drawled indifferently. “Bill
Anderson? But *it wasn’t Bill that
dropped dead,” I explained. “It was the
traveller.” “Eh? What did y’ say, Sol?”
Seventyfiver came to life in surprise.
“Cripes,” he gasped, “y’ don’t mean t’
say it wus the bloke sellin’ the clo’es that
died! ”
* * * *
“K.R.”; “Bass” (B. 27/9/’5O) may not
fully understand the workings of evolu-
tion—l wonder does anybody?—but,
understandable or not, evolution is cer-
tainly true. No scientist now denies it.
However, how and why evolution acts is
still much disputed ; whether or not there
is a guiding intelligence behind it all, I
think it certain that there is no conscious
“Try letting it go when you throw, boss.”
or intelligent striving on the part of
individuals, even individuals of the higher
mammals, and there never has been.
“Bass” is wasting his time wondering if
flowers “decided” this, or bees “hoped”
that. It has been proved by experiment
that insects and plants can’t reason out
anything, and even the reasoning animals
can’t think in terms of their species. This
being so, all the complicated habits and
practices which go to make up instinct,
and all the mutually beneficial arrange-
ments between plants and insects, must
have been developed quite unconsciously.
The key to the answer is that millions and
millions of years came and went before
all this amazing machinery was perfected.
It may not be easy to grasp this; but it
is also difficult to comprehend the develop-
ment of each and every fact of life, and
of the universe in which it exists.
* * * *
“Bo”: “Had a pet black cockatoo
once,” said Hairy Ned. “Wasn’t much
of a weather-prophet, but he was a good
talker. One day a big flock o’ white
cockatoos settled in the maize after put-
ting out the usual sentries. Nigger left
the protection of the house in his excite-
ment and flew across to take on the
sentry posted on a tree near the sties.
I hear a lot o’ screechin’, and by the time
I got out with my gun there was Nigger
getting the daylights belted out of him
by the mob. I fired over their heads so
as not to risk hitting my bloke, and as
the whites flew off shrieking blue murder
Nigger staggered up and said: “Well,
whaddaya know! I thought the scangy
blankards ’d have drawn the color-line! ”
* * * *
“Tarbush”: We had just finished draft-
ing at the homestead yards when the
motor-bike popped up. The boss passed
a pint of tea across to the hatless youth
in leather jacket and goggles, talked
soothingly to him for a while and then:
“Don’t s’pose y’ want a job?” “Aw —I
might,” condescended the neo-bagman,
“only I gotter go easy. Me doctor”
“That’s all right,” the boss chipped in. “I
can give y’ an easy lay. See them weaners
there? Fifteen hundred of ’em. Well, I
want ’em settled down on a new bore,
twelve-mile out. All y’d have t’ do’d be
camp out there an’ poke around ’em —
paddock’s only five-be-five.” The bag-
man fished out a packet of tailor-mades
and thought it over, staring the while at
the weaners. “Look all right, don’t
they?” he volunteered. “ ’Struth, wool’s a
price, ain’t it? Got a match? What d’
y’ reckon that lot’d be worth, mister?”
The boss told him. The bagman mused
over his fag. “Well,” demanded the boss,
“will y’ take the job?” “Me?” said the
bagman, picking up his goggles. “No,
mister. Not when they’re worth all that.
I couldn’t take the responsibility—not
without a flamin’ armed guard.”
♦ ♦ ♦ #
“Chuck”: Andy’s eyes were fixed on
the ground, and he didn’t see the cove
against the store veranda-post until he
bumped into him. He drew back and
scowled. “You’re the driver of one o
the goods-trains, aren’t y’?” he said
resentfully. “Yair, and y’re on
“Nothing to do with you if I
“No?” snapped Andy. “No? Whenlve
spent four days musterin’, pickin’ out
fats and bringing ’em here only find
you blokes ’re not working. Do y’ call
that a fair go, takin’ y’r grouches out on
us blokes an’ all the city people that s
left short o’ meat an’ things? Gripes, it
don’t hurt y’r bosses if you go out; and
us others ain’t done nothin’ to you.
“You mightn’t ’ve ; but you don’t pay
our wages,” announced the driver point-
edly. “I ain’t sure o’ that, neither,”
growled Andy. “Anyway, y’ should settle
y’r rows among y’selves, instead o’
shufflin’ ’em on to all of us.” The driver
sneered contemptuously. “Yes? Look
here, when there’s something you want
altered,” he declared, “you’ve got to
attack it where you’ll do the most good,
see? Whether it hurts or not. You think
it over.” “Well, maybe y’ve got some-
thin’ there,” conceded Andy grimly.
“An’ you think it over, too . . . when y’
pick y’self up.” And the believer in
forceful measures hit the gravel with a
bump. i
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: After five years in
World War II engineers I’ll believe
“S.H.H.’s” yarn (B. 13/9/’5O) about the
Army blokes who touched off a heavy
charge without any warning. It isn’t that
there’s a bigger proportion of dills in the
“ginger-beers” than in any other branch
of the Army ; but with all that equipment
to play with they have greater opportuni-
ties for displaying their stupidity. Once
a group of us were, for the umpteenth
time, being instructed in the art of de-
molishing the Palestinian' countryside at
about 20ft. intervals. Each man bored
down 6ft. with an
earth-auger, put in a
small “bulling”
charge, rammed in
the main charge,
filled the bore hole,
tamped it down,
gave ample warning,
and touched her off.
That was the drill;
but the first man to
complete the job for-
got the second-last
item. I was tamp-
ing home my charge
when there was a
dull thud and the
earth rocked. For a moment I wondered
what I’d done wrong and why I wasn’t
going skywards ; then the earth came down
in large lumps, and the bloke next to
me rushed back to see the effect of his
charge. Another time an engineer
officer was detailed to assist at some in-
fantry manoeuvres and lend reality to
the defence of a position. He fashioned
“grenades” out of bags of blasting-
powder in which 3in. of fuse was inserted,
made sure that the infanteers knew how
to light the fuse, and gave the word.
The exercise was called off after the first
bomb exploded prematurely and wounded
three men. Theoretically, the fuse should
have been long enough, but anyone except
an engineer would have tested it at a
safe distance by means of an electric
fuse. After that show I believed the yarn,
repeated with relish throughout the
Middle East, about the two engineers who
were sent to inspect some poison-gas
captured from the Ities. To discuss the
subject at ease they sat on barrels of
mustard-gas and suffered a fate worse
than death.
CHILDREN ON THE DUNES.
From s. -'-dapple dusk of tea-tree cubby
Tuey watch the tops of the sand-dunes:
(The sand weeps when the wind touches).
The crests are abristle with spinifex,
But the sides are sled-track smooth and white —
Hard sand, crumbly as stolen sugar—
Good to roll on.
Where hides the sun when it falls from the sky?
Sliding, a last-minute rush—and quick!
Does it splash in the sea and fizzle like a live
coal?
Or is it a golden penny cooling in the sand?
Run to the top!
Feel the sand slip.
The wind of your rush,
And sea everywhere
Like a dream at waking!
Only the sea, grey with a red streak;
The sky candy-pink, and the gulls
Bobbing like toys in the bath.
The gulls cry with the children for losing the
sun.
QUEENSLAND.'
TREVOR FINCH.


Don’t say Gin
• • • say
9
s
O
O
c
“Columba”: I, too, like “B. A. Ker”
(B. 13/9/’5O), thought I knew my pee-
wees, the dainty ones which flattered me
by their close
attendance when 1
dug in the garden.
Now every mud-
lark in the neigh-
borhood is crazily
pursuing a small
moth in the
grasses which
have covered a
swampy waterhole near by. They get
very wet in the process, and present a
ludicrous sight sitting on fences like
miniature shags, drying-out, with wings
hunched up and half-opened in the typical
and rather sinister cormorant attitude.
* * * *
“Wonk”: “Got the time, mate?” The
bloke propped in the shade beside the
broken gate and small heap of tools
dragged a watch from his pocket and
scanned it thoughtfully. “What’s four
hours an’ twenty minutes off twenty-five
past seven?” he called back. “Five past
three.” “Yair? Well, that’s what it ’d
be if it was night-time,” he explained.
“But y’ got to allow a bit orf that, ’cos
the twenty-four hours ain’t up yet.” I
thanked him uncertainly, and rode on.
The following day I returned that way
with old Jim ; and again the figure was
propped by the gate. “Wonder how time
goes,” remarked Jim as we drew abreast.
“Hey, mate, have you got the time?”
Once more the bloke dragged out his
watch and studied it. “Well, she gains a
bit, but what’s four hours an’ twenty
minutes a couple o’ times?” he inquired.
“Eight hours, forty minutes.” “Awright.
An’ what’s that much took away from
twenty-to-one?” “Look here,” I chipped
in impatiently. “Why the blazes don’t
you put your watch at the right time by
the radio or somethin’?” “Eh? Aw,
there’s no need,” he drawled wearily.
“No need at all. Gripes, with this ’ere
watch all a bloke’s got t’ do is hang on
a bit an’ she puts ’erself right,”
* * * *
“Howie Wing”: Who said foxes are
cunning, or have sharp eyes and ears?
On a moonlight night, hearing the mating-
call —a screechy yell more like a cat’s
serenade than Reynard’s usual hunting-
cry—l went to the boundary of the scrub-
paddock and rested my rifle on a fence-
post. After a lot more yelling there was
silence, and presently a fox came trotting
along the track almost under my barrel.
Seeing me move the rifle to take aim he
scampered off into the scrub, and my shot
went wide. A few seconds later a second
fox came calmly walking towards me
down an old white log that protruded
from the bush. Whether courtship had
gone to her head I don’t know, but she
stood perfectly still on the log for several
seconds, less than 10 yards from me and
staring straight at me in bright moon-
light. Easiest bit of scalp-money I’ve
ever earned.
“Betcha”: That bloke that was always
burying fortunes in the bush and dying
as soon as he hit town (B. 13/9/’5O)
' operated in Eastern Vic., too, in a number
of places. As well, we’ve half a dozen
old coves who planted fabulous life-
savings in or around their shacks before
they died there alone, but they found
super hiding-places. I can prove it.
Then again, can you beat our fortune in
raw gold that lies somewhere along a
certain shortcut through the scrub? The
cove who dumped it there robbed the
gold coach and escaped down the un-
inhabited shortcut, but didn’t have the
booty when arrested as he emerged on
the farther side. We’ve also got a
treacle-tin of alluvial in the river-bank
somewhere, where the old Chinaman hid
it before he was bumped off. No one
seems to have found that, either. Or, if
you’d like it in currency, there’s our
Indian who ratted the pub till, hid it in
the bush, and died in jail. The amount
he pinched has increased over the years
till by now it should be sticking out of
the ground everywhere behind the old
pub site.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Nothing unusual in
a goanna laying her eggs in a termite-
nest (B. 20/ 9/’5O), nor in the termites
closing the apertures. Kick a piece off
a nest and see how quickly the wound is
healed. As for the go., there’s sense in
“Hey, cut that engine! I haven't got the wheel on yet!"
her method. Termites, by some means
not fully determined, but probably con-
nected with leaf-decomposition and a
complex system of air-circulation, main-
tain an even temperature throughout the
nest continually, irrespective of outside
weather conditions. Since a high and
even humidity is also maintained, con-
ditions for hatching would seem to be
ideal. But, perhaps, the main factor in
the go.’s choice of a hatchery is the food
store available for the newly-hatched
brood. Termites are a delicacy to most
bush ground-life, and gos and lizards
often hibernate in or near a termites’-
nest. Then within a few minutes of
emerging from sleep they are stoking up
again.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: One year a plague of
music hit the station. It started with the
arrival of two well-sinkers, one of whom
performed well on the mouth-organ to
the other’s banjo accompaniment. They
were popular in the town, and nothing
may have come of that, only the banjoist
seemed to be too popular with the mail-
man’s daughter, about whom Little Curl
had ideas. L.C. read one of those “Be
the life of the party” advts., and presently
there arrived a steel guitar and a book of
instructions. Curl took both off into the
scrub, and did so well that young Hull
bought a second-hand mandolin, Big
Fleming a tin-whistle and Pocketknife a
mouth-organ. About the only thing I
could plunk a tune out of —and a pretty
poor one at that —was a jew’s-narp. The
well-sinkers became interested in us, and
at night in the hut we had some of the
most enjoyable—though perhaps not the
most harmonious —concerts I ever heard.
Then somebody got the idea of running
a concert in the town for the bush-nursing
fund or something, and the banjoing well-
sinker decided that we’d give an orchestral
item, with the mailman’s daughter as
vocalist. This led to rehearsals at the
mailman’s home, and at the third one
Little Curl caught the banjoist holding
the vocalist’s hand under the table, and
he went for that banjoist. The banjoist’s
mate joined in, and what with the con-
fined space, the mailman’s attempts to
save his furniture and our attempts to
destroy the interlopers, it cost us
£3 6s. 3d. each for damages, the concert
was held without our item and the mail-
man’s daughter subsequently went to
Bendigo and married a railway porter.
* * * *
“Magnus P,”: The notion that the in-
creasing warmth of the earth’s surface is
because of an increase in radioactivity
(B, 6/9/’5O) is on par with the theory
that recent N.S.W. floods, together with
a near-drought in W.A., are the after-
math of the atomic explosion at Bikini.
Actually, the rational theory regarding
variations in warmth, such as might cause
an Ice Age or a correspondingly-long
universal drought, concerns dust —almost
impalpable cosmic dust —billions of
cubic miles of it. Such clouds are known
to exist, and, presuming that our really
small solar system became involved in
one, the effect would be to shut off a
certain amount of the sun’s light and
heat, but mostly heat. Long-continued
entanglement could produce an Ice Age,
out of one of which our earth is even
now just passing. Thus the clearing of
interplanetary, intersolar space in our little
system may be permitting a fuller impact
of the sun’s rays on our earth’s surface.
Which sums up as a poor lookout for
already-arid Australia.
* * * *
“E.”: When the family shifted out to
the farm Mum took one look at the
hedge in front of the house and made for
the clippers. But after 12 months of re-
peated effort she informed Dad she was
going to chop it out. “If it doesn’t want
watering, it wants clipping,” she com-
plained. I’ll have a strip of garden there
instead.” She planted the strip with re-
puted bright annuals, and after many
months found they were anything but.
“I think we haven’t enough water for
annuals,” she decided then. “And any-
way they’re too much work. Don’t you
think perennials would be better. Dad?”
The old bloke being indifferent, she at
length collected enough perennials to
furnish the front strip. She hoed, weeded
and manured the bed, but each time
flowering season arrived it coincided with
a dry spell. Mum grew disheartened for
a time, then one day Dad met her com-
ing home with a bag of roots. “I’m
going to throw out those half-dead
perennials,” she announced, “and put in
a lawn. That’s the thing. Not much
work, and it’ll look tidy all the year.”
She worked harder than ever on the new
lawn, but soon the sun burnt out the
centre. When it killed even the patches
on the path, Mum grew despondent on
the subject of gardening, until her return
from town next trip. “Dad, I’ve bought
dozens of lovely bushes. I saw the
gardener in town,” she explained, smiling,
“and he told me the best thing for me
to grow out here is a hedge.”
* * * ♦
“Salmon Gums”; I've seen a plague of
dragonflies (B. 20/9/’5O), but at a
different season of the year—early winter.
The water was returning to the swamp,
which had dried out during the summer
for the first time for years. The surround-
ing meadows were covered with the web
of ground-nesting spiders, and the wind
had blown the web to drape the fences
with silver curtains. The dragonflies
appeared in hundreds, suddenly, and for
days they maintained apparently cease-
less flight over the water. Still in flight,
they mated, until there appeared to be
not a solitary insect amongst them. They
disappeared almost as suddenly as they
came, to lay eggs on the reeds and the
leaves of swamp-plants. I’d say that
“Easter’s” plague was of youngsters who
had just completed their interesting and
beautiful metamorphosis, and were just
trying out their wings.
* * * *
“Eremophila”: Most lizards can at
least put up with man. A goanna treats
you as a rather unpredictable equal, too
slow and clumsy to be feared and quite
tolerable unless addicted to dogs. The
little geckoes and the fly-catching skinks
apparently regard you as a sort of Father
Christmas able to provide huge dumps
full of lizard shelters and succulent flies.
But the dragons are a race apart; they
are suspicious of man, resentful of his
appearance on their hunting-grounds and
quick to retaliate if his fingers stray near
enough. And of all the dragons the Jew
lizard (Amphibolurus barbatus) is as
morose and cynical as any. I was there-
fore surprised to find, in a garden near
Adelaide, a fully-grown jewie as a lady’s
pet, and which came every day to be
hand-fed. The spiky bloke still felt un-
easy in human company when on the
ground, but as soon as he had climbed
his favorite post he permitted one to
approach with offerings. Centipede was
a favorite titbit, but earthworms were
the staple diet. Strangely enough, a
garden-slug was rejected with every
evidence of its being regarded as revolting
fodder.
* * * *
“Eurimburra”; When the 150 acres of
blady- and carpet-grass that passed as a
dairyfarm eventually ditched old Mick,
he set himself up as a poultry-farmer on
four acres down-river. With the chooks
on free range in Paddy’s-lucerne up to
the frbnt door, a couple of decrepit barns.
and the rest of the
joint an overgrowth
of paspalum and
Noogoora burrs, it
wasn’t long before
Mick’s returns began
to show an all-time
high in bad eggs. All
whiskers and bel-
ligerence, he stumped
up to the depot and
demanded to know
why. The manager took him into the
candling-room and, selecting two eggs
from Mick’s last consignment, beckoned
him close. The first passed. In the
second the yolk was about as distinct as a
black cat in a coal-cellar. The manager
was in the middle of explaining the differ-
ence when old Mick grabbed the egg and,
before anyone could stop him, rapped it
smartly on the table. As the aroma
from the mess spread through the room
the girl candlers slid off their chairs to
safety, while the manager wrinkled up
his nose in anticipation of Mick’s con-
firmation of an awful, undeniable fact.
“What’s wrong with it?” snorted the
poultry-farmer. “Mightn’t be too fresh,
but y’ don’t notice that if y’ scramble ’em.”
CHERRY TREE HILL.
“Let’s go for a walk,” I hear someone say,
But nobody answers “We will!”
It’s many a milestone and many a day
Since we strolled over Cherry Tree Hill.
I’m perfectly certain, if Time were swept back,
Where I should implore it to stay,
For 1 can remember its lost bivouac
And every inch of the way.
I’d not be diverted to dream of a kiss
From a marvellous princess of Spain:
All that I ask from Life’s yesterday is
My two little sisters again.
Our nursery window a wonderland showed:
The morning-dew beaded the sill
As bright as the glittering quartz of the road
Ascending to Cherry Tree Hill.
About the pink-currant the honeybfirds flew,
While magpies made vocal the spring,
And under the saplings what wildflowers grew
Where dragonflies poised on the wing!
Roaming the bush on a pathway unplanned
As that of the wandering bee,
What treasures we found as we strolled hand
in hand
Through realms of enchantment, we three!
The four winds of heaven have blown us apart,
But when they sink down and are still
There rises from childhood the sigh in my heart
Of the wind over Cherry Tree Hill.
ENGLAND.
GUY INNES.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
Before you go abroad
take this wise precaution • • •
TONSURE complete enjoyment and absence of
■*— J worry by placing the control of your affairs
in the hands of a skilled and trusted Attorney
or Agent. The Union Trustee Company is fully
equipped to act in this capacity. Its services
include the collection of all classes of income
and attention to all kinds of business and personal
matters. It also prepares taxation returns and
arranges and supervises the investment of funds.
Be sure, too, that your Will is in order.
Write, without cost or obligation, for the Company’s
booklet which explains fully these and other
services available. Or call for a confidential inter-
view with one of the Company’s senior officers.
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 1885)
St., Brisbane
U.T.6
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit.* Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1939.. 201,610 7ip.c.= 174,385 27,225 548,028
1940.. 182,815 6i „ ~ 151,134 31,681 579,709
1941.. 180,066 6i „ ~151,134 28,932 608,641
1942.. 191,252 6J „ „ 151,134 40,118 648,759
1943.. 190,938 6J „ ~151,134 39,804 688,563
1944.. 191,103 6J ~ „ 151,134 39,969 728,532
1945.. 191,287 6| „ ~ 151,134 40,153 768,685
1946.. 169,499 6 „ „ 139,508 29,991 798,676
1947.. 169,456 6 „ „ 139,507 29,949 828,625
1948.. 154,451 6 „ „ 139,507 14,944 843,569
1949.. 218,331 5 „ „ 116,257 102,074 945,643
1950.. 156,276 5 „ „ 116,257 40,019 985,662
* Includes additions to Reserves.
Shareholders can thank returns from
investments, other than in ships, for
most, if not all, of last term’s 5 p.c. div.
The co.’s fleet (six passenger and 20 cargo
vessels aggregating 72,167 tons gross),
which is the largest on the coast, didn’t
contribute anything to net earnings in
the 1949 term. If it made any profit at
all last term it was a small one.
Certainly the 10,899-ton Manoora,
biggest of the co.’s two large inter-State
passenger vessels, took up the run again
in August, 1949, and controlled freight-
rates were increased. But the lift was not
enough, and the rates had to be raised
again in order to overtake the rapid ad-
vance in costs. Besides being bumped up
by recurrent wage-lifts and rises in prices
for fuel, stores, etc., these costs are need-
lessly swollen by the slow turn-round
of ships, which is largely the result of
obstructionist tactics practised by Com-
munist-led waterside workers.
The co.’s subsidiary and ancillary in-
terests, which bulk large among the assets,
include unspecified but substantial hold-
ings in J. and A. Brown and Abermain
Seaham Collieries, A.W.A., A.N.A.,
Newstead Wharves and Stevedoring Co.
(Brisbane), Port Adelaide Steam Laundry
(which looks after the fleet’s linen) and a
big wad of Government securities and
cash (£1,826,436). A recent addition to
the portfolio was 119,700 £1 shares in
North Australian Cement, Ltd. (Towns-
ville), a half-million-pound proposition
which is not expected to be in production
for another year or so. The holding in
subsidiaries figures in the books at
£136,500, and shares in other cos., plus an
unspecified amount of debtors’ balances,
at £757,162.
After maintaining the fleet and plant
in good order and condition and provid-
ing something for depreciation and other
-contingencies, there was little change in
last term’s declared net profit, which was
only £l9 more than the 5 p.c. div. called
for: —■
1948. 1949. 1950.
Profit claimed . . .. £139,451 £116,831 £116,276
Added reserves —
Insurance .. .. 15,000 42,000 20,000
Replacements, etc. .. 60,000 20,000
Profit per table .. £154,451 £218,331 £156,276
The 1949 additions to the insurance
and replacements, etc., reserves came
largely from capital profit (amount
unstated) on sale of two of the older
cargo ships. Last term’s additions of
£20,000 to each of these reserves appear
to have been made out of earnings. Still,
the £156,276 of profit thus shown was
only 6.7 p.c. on capital.
And whether the £156,276 was really
earned depends upon whether the allow-
ance for depreciation was sufficient to
meet actual cost of replacement. The
chairman says that “during the war and
since the small profit margin, plus high
taxation, has barely allowed reserves to
be built up on the basis of the pre-war
value of the Australian £, and that no
account has been taken by the taxation
authority of the inflated value of the £
in its relation to replacements.” If an
undue proportion of industrial profits is
siphoned off by taxation and used to
finance social services, etc., to the detri-
ment of maintenance of real capital
(fixed assets in particular), then they are
being used to saw off the branch on which
we are sitting. Only if industry remains
up to date and efficient can our immense
social-service cheque be honored.
The investment possibilities of the scrip
lie largely in the co.’s subsidiary and an-
cillary interests and what the board
might ultimately do with the big holding
of Government securities and cash:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
Sundry creditors. . 347,349 343,008 543,566
Provident fund . . 126,382 142,073 168,602
Final div. . . 69,754 69,754 58,128
Freeholds, etc. .. 181,966 182,426 207,842
Steamers, etc. . . 841,658 818,713 834,940
Shares in subsidiaries 136,500 136,500 136,500
Stocks and stores 112,009 144,368 174,454
Book debts and in-
vestments . . 840,166 849,539 900,922
Consols, cash, etc. 1,599,889 1,694,067 1,826,436
Orders have been placed with the Aus-
tralian Shipping Board for two new
6000-ton coal-burning cargo vessels, and
inquiries are being made locally and
overseas concerning the construction of
a 1500-ton motor cargo vessel.
The scrip enjoys a fairly steady market,
the price fluctuating between 30s. and
325. since the beginning of 1950. At the
current figure of 30s. 3d. the return is
3.3 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis, or 4 p.c.
should the div. be lifted to 6 p.c. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is 28s. 6d.
Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1942.. 93,903 ll£ p.c. = 70,121 23,782 166,778
1943.. 90,284 11£ „ „ 74,948 15,336 182,114
1944.. 88,571 11J „ „ 75,037 13,534 195,648
1945.. 92,578 „ „ 75,037 17,541 213,189
1946.. 96,897 11£ „ „ 78,179 18,718 231,907
Surplus on sale assets, £21,955 . . 253,862
War-time stocks res., £37,772 .. 291,634
1947.. 171,536 14 p.c. = 84,390 87,384 379,018
To staff, £BOOO .. .. .. .. 371,018
Pref. Ord. Total.
p.C* p.C* £,
1948.. 134,665* 5 14 81,159 53,506 424,524
1949.. 148,535* 5 14 83,023 65,512 490,036
From depreciation res., £31,222 . . 521,258
Freehold revaluation res., £189,692.. 710,950
1950.. 212,925* 5 14 83,023 129,902 840,852
* After providing for possible fall in stock-values,
£175,000, 1948 ; £25,000, 1949; £200,000, 1950.
This robust 16-year-old, which has put
up an extraordinary performance, con-
tinues to step along in fine style. Paid
capital advanced from £170,000 in 1935 to
£720,857 at the close of last accounts by
par issues, while shareholders have had
divs. averaging 12.2 p.c. over the same
period.
Those on the register at August
28 last were further rewarded with
a twofold issue of new shares, one
lot a gift and the other for cash. The
gift was 522,000 f.-p. ss. ords. (£130,500),
two for eight, provided from a reserve
of £189,692 created by revaluation of
freeholds. The cash offer was 1,390,000
new ss. ords. (£347,500), five for eight,
at par—it included 85,000 shares reserved
for subscription by the staff —and 51,143
new £1 5 p.c. cum. prefs., also at par.
When all the money on that lot is in paid
capital will have reached £1,250,000 in
250,000 £l5 p.c. cum. prefs. and 4,000,000
ss. ords. The pref. div. and 14 p.c. to
the ords. together will then call for
£152,500, or £60,425 less profit than was
claimed last term.
The fresh capital is wanted for erection
of a new tyre factory on a 40-acre block
near Brisbane (Q.), and to finance the
still-growing volume of sales and increased
cost of materials. The Brisbane factory,
to be equipped with Australian-made
plant, is expected to be in production
early in 1951, and will ultimately employ
over 500 hands. The idea is to reduce
freight and other overhead, and so
quicken and cheapen distribution of the
co.’s products throughout Queensland and
northern N. S. Wales, and at the same
time swell the volume of output.
Last term turnover went up with a
rush, passing the £4|-million-mark. The
gains therefrom far exceeded the rise
in costs, and the board wrote net earn-
ings £64,390 stronger at £212,925. That
was after setting aside £200,000 (up
£175,000) against a possible fall in stock-
values, a generous £101,066 (up £35,619)
for depreciation and £278,000 (up
£189,000) for taxation, of which
£23,000 was for deferred assessments.
The special stock reserve now amounts to
£400,000, or over 23 p.c. of the whole
inventory, which appears at the lower of
cost or market price.
The £212,925 of profit claimed covered
the pref. div. and 38.8 p.c. on ord. capital
as it stood at June 30, compared with
26.5 p.c. and 21.6 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding years. The div. was kept at 14
p.c. for the fourth year in succession.
Here are balance-sheet figures:—-
1939. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £392,500 £720,857 £720,857 £720,857
Overdraft . . 404,936 826,485 658,051
Creditors |
Tax prov’n j
107,929
) 172,855 215,176 216,794
( 210,000 90,332 278,000
Final divs. .. 29,297 44,122 44,122 44,122
Freeholds, etc. 78,119 183,320 198,565 490,000
Leaseholds . . 1,460
Plant, etc. . . 115,707 164,459 291,745 419,535
Stocks . . 244,359 1,084,416 1,355,657 1,299,128
Debtors, etc.. . 245,448 578,565 504,052 496,439
Shares in Olym.
Cables . . 26,534 44,969 52,114
Of the year’s increase of £291,435 in
freeholds, etc., £189,692 was on account
of the revaluation already referred to.
The balance, together with the net growth
of £127,790 in plant, etc., largely reflects
activity in connection with the new Bris-
bane factory. At the same time the co.
was able to slash £168,434 off the over-
draft.
The market sees no cloud in the co.’s
sky, and prices the ords. (ex-rights) at
245., giving a return of only 2.9 p.c. on
a 14 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 255.
yield 4 p.c. Including new issues, net
tangible cover is £8 7s. 2d. prefs. and 9s.
2d. ords.
Berlei, Ltd.
, Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1942.. 27,370 4000 10 p.c. = 13,756 9,614 95,769
To staff fund, £2224 .. .. .. 93,545
1943.. 25,060 4000 10 p.c. = 13,756 7,304 100,849
To staff fund, £3021 .. .. )
1944.. 29,789 4000 10 p.c. = 13,756 ]
9,012 109,861
To staff fund, £8450 .. .. 7
1945.. 38,317 4000 10 p.c. = 13,756 J
12,111 121,972
To staff fund, £3734 . . . . (
1946.. 41,989 4000 10 p.c. = 13,756 J
20,499 142,471
Share premiums, £49,937 .. ]
To staff fund, £3729 . .. }•
1947.. 34,862 4000 10 p.c. = 16,292 J
60,778 203,249
Share premiums, £59,906 .. ]
Assets revaluation, £40,814 .. 1
From tax provision, £1829 .. }■
To staff fund, £3709 . . |
122,495 325,744
1948.. 49,124 4000 10 p.c. = 21,469 J
Add assets revaluat’n, £ 16,875 1
To staff fund, £4565 .. }
1949.. 43,729 4000 10 p.c. = 26,479 J
25,560 351,304
Repayments from U.K. co., £10,653 .. 361,957
To staff fund, £6571 355,386
To stock reserve, £2197 .. ..353,189
1950.. 59,784 4000 10 p.c. = 26,625 29,159 382,348
The future for this well-established and
efficient manufacturing organisation,
which turns out women’s foundation-
garments, etc., looks like one of continued
expansion, subject, of course, to economic
and other developments. The parent and
its New Zealand associate, Berlei (N.Z.),
Ltd., which has paid a steady 17y p.c.
for some years, have a firm hold on the
growing market throughout the Com-
monwealth and Dominion, and each co.
has an overflowing order-book. A sub-
sidiary, Warner’s “Le Gant” Pty., dis-
tributes garments manufactured under
licence from Warner Bros., one of the
leading corset manufacturers of America.
Another subsidiary, Berlei (U.K.), Ltd.,
which set up near London in 1930, is
now reported in a “strong position” and
to be making “remarkable progress.”
Last term it repaid to the parent £5866 in
respect of pref, divs. paid under guaran-
tee and £4787 of deferred interest. And
the three factories established by the
parent since the war at Wollongong,
Lithgow and Punchbowl (N.S.W.), to help
overcome the labor problem, are all giving
a good account of themselves. Also, land
was recently bought at Bankstown, near
Sydney, where another factory is to be
erected when existing production units
approach maximum output. Meanwhile
the co. has developed an export trade
with South Africa which is beyond present
capacity to supply. And, as opportunity
offers, the board proposes to develop
other overseas markets, especially in the
Middle East, Southern Asia and South
America, where promising connections
had been established before the war.
Last term turnover of the group con-
tinued to increase, passing the £2,000,000-
mark, and operating efficiency improved.
So, despite the all-round advance in
costs, the board was able to write net
earnings £16,055 better at £59,784. That
was after allowing for depreciation
(£10,902, up £225), taxation (£38,500, up
£18,750) and staff profit-sharing divs.
(£2959, down £1197), and leaves out of
the reckoning the non-recurring repay-
ments from the U.K. offshoot. The
£59,784 was enough to pay the parent’s
pref. div. (£4000) and show 20.9 p.c. on
the £266,250 of ord. capital as against
15, 21, 18.9, 27.6, 24.5 and 18.4 p.c. back
to 1944. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.,
which has been an annual event for the
last 15 years, and the £29,159 that re-
mained lifted visible reserves £66,098
higher than paid capital.
Finances are comfortable :
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £261,073 £309,319 £316,250 £316,250
Mortgage .. 70,000
Overdraft . . 106,593 120,000 161,241 5,102
Creditors etc. 35,596 88,825 153,975 164,591
Tax provision 44,078 28,000 22,140 37,730
Provident fund 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000
Final divs. .. 12,836 15,262 15,313
Freeholds . . 103,261 106,542 108,748 127,289
Plant . . 30,027 43,265 59,238 63,436
Investmentst • 66,647 67,451 84,948 103,583
Stocks .. 371,952 505,315 649,024 561,487
Book debts .. 98,393 173,734 113,837 145,719
Cash, etc. ... 5,860 3,945 19,377 4,821
f Shares in subsidiary cos.
During the year £156,139 was lopped off
the overdraft, and £70,000 was raised on
mortgage from the A.M.P. Society.
Stocks (down £87,537) are in good condi-
tion, and appear at the lower of cost
or market price, less a reserve of £40,000
against any quick slip in prices. Ex-
cluding investments (up £18,635), mainly
shares in subsidiary and associated cos.,
more-or-less liquids exceed liabilities by
£404,291 when the books closed.
The ords. at 595. 6d. (51s. 3d. a year
ago) return 3.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis,
with prospects. The prefs. at 375. yield
4.3 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is £l3 19s. sd. prefs. and 48s. Bd. ords.
Brooke’s Lemos, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1940 .. 11,301 8 10 8,309 2,992 6,247
1941 .. 6,394 8 7 6,344 50 6,297
1942 ~ 10,345 8 8 6,999 3,346 9,643
1943 .. 12,675 8 8 6,999 5,676 15,319
1944 . . 10,025 8 8 6,999 3,026 18,345
Premiums from new issue, £13,000 .. 31,345
1945 .. 18,939 8 10f 12,082 6,257 37,602
1946 . . 16,556 8 8 11,197 5,359 42,961
1947 . . 16,542 8 8 11,197 5,845 48,306
1948 .. 17,234 8 8 11,198 6,036 54,342
Share premiums, £12,651 .. .. 66,993
1949 . . 19,697 8 8 13,255 6,442 73,435
* After deducting goodwill, etc. (now £13,090) from
published reserves, f Includes 2 p.c. Victory bonus.
The ords. have had a steady 8 p.c. (with
a 2 p.c. sweetener in 1945) ever since
war interrupted a run of 10 p.c. divs.
with a seven-per-center nine years ago.
Prospects of better depend largely upon
what happens in connection with costs
and markets, especially the export
market with southern Asia which the co.
has developed since the war and which
rising costs are making it difficult to hold.
The management is alive to its prob-
lems, and on the technical side the co.
is well-equipped and efficient —its two
factories at Melbourne turn out a variety
of fruit juices, cordials, condiments and
canned fruits and vegetables. Output and
sales have stepped along as fast as supplies
of labor, tinplate and glass containers
would allow. But costs, aggravated by
transport and other difficulties, have
gobbled most of the gains. As a partial
solution to some of its problems the co.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman). F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. P. HUGHES, R. J. YICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
( L- <?!»>:#
From
Scotland
—every
precious
drop
IUC| IWHITI*
TiSsrr
BUCHANAN’S
BLACK&WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
DistiTled and blended in Scotland
By Appointment
to H.ti. King George VI
Scotch Whisky Distillers.
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
!
JAMES BUCHANAN AND CO. LTD.. GLASGOW. SCOTLAND
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
WESTERN MINING
CORPORATION LIMITED
At the Annual Meeting of Western Mining Corporation Ltd held in
Melbourne on 3rd October, 1950, the Chairman, Sir Walter Massy-Greene,
made the following remarks on —
THE FUTURE OF GOLD
Since our last*Annua! Meeting the
further devaluation of sterling and of
the Australian pound has fundamen-
tally altered the prospects of gold-
mining in this country.
I want to devote a few minutes to
an examination of the reasons which
lead me to believe that we can look
forward with confidence to a con-
tinuation of profitable gold-mining
operations, and say a few words on
the necessity of a restoration of the
proper function of gold in our mone-
tary systems.
The great bulk of the enormous
expenditures of modern war creates
no new assets likely to contribute
anything to the maintenance of the
peace time economy. Nearly, if not
all, that is left is a huge mountain of
debt, the interest on which has, if the
nation is honest, to be paid, and over
long years the principal amortized.
History affords abundant proofs that
the effect of these new burdens, of
great relative magnitude, against
which there is no offset, to a very
large extent can be and have only
been met by wholesale depreciation of
the currency.
The first step in war finance is to
render all existing currency inconvert-
ible into gold. Credit (currency is its
highest form) is multiplied. Multipli-
cation of credit leads to rapid depre-
ciation of the value of the currency,
and given free markets the prices of
real things (the goods and services of
the population) expressed in incon-
vertible paper money must rise pro-
portionately. Gold —universally trea-
sured as the measure of value —would
be the first to rise, and in so doing
disclose the depreciation of the paper
monetary unit. For this very reason,
free dealings in it are prohibited and
the State forcibly acquires it from its
producers and owners at false prices
fixed by itself.
Sooner or later the inconvertible
paper currency has to be brought
nearer into line with facts and then
we meet devaluation.
DEVALUATION
On September 19th, 1949, despite
many vehement protestations to the
contrary, Sir Stafford Cripps bowed
to the inevitable and devalued sterling
44% to about the level then ruling in
the free markets of the world. Aus-
tralia (and I think wisely) in company
with nearly the whole sterling bloc,
decided to follow sterling down. The
price of gold in £A. rose from
£lO/15/3 per fine ounce to £l5/9/10.
It is scarcely necessary to point out
that, as a result, gold-mining, which,
due to rising costs and its old fixed
price, was fast collapsing, took a new
lease of life, the effects of which will
be more apparent as the years go on.
True, costs have risen of plant, wages
and stores, but there is still an effec-
tive balance in favour of the gold-
miner.
But I do not think we have yet
seen the full effect of war finance on
the price of gold. America is still
hanging on to the dollar price for gold
of $35 per fine ounce. 1 believe there
is nothing surer than that, sooner or
later, the anomalous position of the
dollar price of gold will be corrected.
The present U.S.A. price for gold is
just the pre-war rate. U.S.A. is trying
to do to-day what Britain tried to do
after both World Wars I and 11, to
retain the pre-war price of gold and
ignore the vast inflation that has taken
place meanwhile. Britain failed. Out
of her first failure came the Great
Depression. I think U.S.A. will also
fail to retain the pre-war price of
gold. If she does not increase the
price she will suffer a great depression.
What grounds are there for believ-
ing that this anomalous disparity in
the price of gold between U.S.A. and
the rest of the world can continue
indefinitely? Were it not for the
“terrors of the law” in U.S.A. and
elsewhere it could not last for five
minutes. And because I hold that
belief I look forward to a still greater
revival in the gold-mining industry
and, as the relative rates of exchange
are adjusted between U.S.A. and the
whole of the sterling area, a satisfac-
tory payable price for gold for a l»ng
time to come.
But there is another reason why I |
think the future of gold and its place
in the monetary world is assured.
Convertibility in the true sense of 'the
word must be restored if wp. ever
to see an end to th constantly
decreasing purchasing power of the
monetary unit which" is now little If
anything better than a political
promise. True it varies in intensity
but it is a disease common to the
whole world.
INSTABILITY
Paper money in ever increasing
volume is coming from the printing
presses accompanied by ever increas-
ing prices, giving rise, as they must,
to criticism, complaint political
instability. The rise in prices pretty
accurately reflects the extent of the
debasement of the currency. And the
rises will go on until the inflation of
credit stops. Governments will, no
doubt, and quite rightly, claim that
what was done was inescapable to
finance the war. This, however, is not
an acceptable excuse for the perpetua-
tion of inconvertible paper money.
In those “old days” when currencies
were of gold or silver alone, the
monarchs or governments when they
wanted more cash, particularly for
wars, either clipped bits off or out of
the coinage or reduced its weight or
fineness. To-day it is a crin# for the
private citizen to hold gold. The
Government has clipped the lot!
When we revert to “honest money”
for currency, the goods we require for
our existence will be available at
honest prices and we will see the end
of the present ever ascending spiral.
There should always be a proper
relation between the value of com-
modities in gold and the value of gold
in commodities.
Until the public conscience is
aroused to an understanding of the
necessity of getting back to “sound
money” principles and realising that
the so-called money which they fold
into their wallets is phoney and
dangerous, destructive of value and
fundamentally inflationary; until there
is a free market for gold and paper
money is freely convertible into gold,
inflation must and will continue.
REAL WORTH
It cannot be stated too often that
any given quantity of gold of the
same weight and fineness does not
lose its value or its purchasing power.
Recently two Victorian boys found 80
sovereigns in an old tin in a ruined
house. When those sovereigns were
minted they were worth £1 and the
notes which were freely convertible
into gold sovereigns were worth £1 in
gold. To-day each of those sovereigns
is worth nearly £4 in Australian
notes, which are not convertible into
gold. Make the note convertible once
more into gold at the appropriate
weight and fineness and it will retain
its purchasing power, just as surely
as, for all these years those sovereigns
had retained their purchasing power
as fully as at the time when some
frugal soul, long since dead and gone,
had stored them away. The reasons
which in the first place led the nations
to abandon convertibility no longer
exist, though the devious means by
which governments, unknown to the
populace, gradually sap the purchas-
ing power of the currency do.
Gold is, in effect, the only real
money in the world. Every holder of
a note, of a government bond, of an
insurance policy, of a pension, indeed
any security, is deeply interested in
getting back to sound money. Sound
money is impossible of attainment
under any system of inconvertible
paper merely bearing the legend that
it is legal tender. Gold is the only
generally acceptable medium through
which sound money can once more
be restored to the world. It still has
a great future and a great function to
perform. It was Daniel Webster who
said: “that of all the contrivances
for cheating the labouring classes of
mankind none has been more effective
than that which deludes them with
paper money.” To this I may add the
late Lord Keynes’ quotation from
Lenin —“There is no subtler, no
surer means of overturning the exist-
ing basis of society than to debauch
the currency.”
ili i ' >i
■
MS
m
• ••
(mliMtm
The “PERFECT POLICY” of the Metropolitan provides
a regular income during incapacitation whether, from
accident or specified illness—and in addition x>rovides all
the benefits of an ordinary Endowment Assurance.
ANNUAL BONUS ADDITIONS.
AUSTRALIAN
AUUdturtUmMfc
ASSURANCE COMPANYITO'
lUINIIA AND BIICrH SIR£ETS. S i 0 N E Y,
pa rated to QurtmlaruL IS9X
bought all the shares in the
Sydney food-preserving business
of W. H. Johnson and Co. Pty.
(now operated as a subsidiary)
at an unstated figure half-way
through the last term, paying in
cash for the prefs. and in scrip
for the ords. Paid capital in-
creased by £25,730, and £12,651
was added to share-premium ac-
c °UDt Bui net earnings didn'l gel
much benefit from the deal, be-
cause the coal strike and power
restrictions interrupted output
and the installation of new plant,
Including £152 received in divs.
from the new offshoot, gross
earnings increased by £17,071:
1945. 1948. 1949.
rn ~ £ £ £
Gross profit .. 116,461 131,455 148,526
Less—
Gen. expenses 47,936 84,548 99,985
Depreciation 15,586 14,673 15,174
Nef 3 profit ;; ass 85S IS?
General exes, (up £15,437) took
67.3 p.c. of gross as against
64.3 p.c. in 1948 and 41 p.c. in
1945. The profit (£2463) covered
the pref. div. (£1758) and 12.5
p.c. on ord. capital compared
with 13.1, 12.5, 12.5 and 14.5
p.c. back to 1945.
Purchase of the Johnson hud-
ness is further reflected in the
net addition of £49 665 to shares
Tn othefcos ’
’‘1945 1948 1949
££‘ £ '
Paid capital .. 139,970 139,970 165,700
Mortgage .. 56,700 49,500 47,500
Creditors .. 75,638 57,762 70486
Tax provision 52,114 32,525 30,981
Freeholds ~ 16,389 15,501 15,501
Leaseholds .. 96,799 86,781 82,841
Plant .. .. 53,871 57,410 58,650
Stocks .. .. 97,872 99,775 116,407
Debtors .. 65,673 48,831 63,557
Shares other cos. 5,500 7,500 57,165
cash, etc. .. 37,724 28,620 6,058
To complete the cash portion
of the deal, carry an extra
£16,632 of stocks and add
£14,726 to book debts, the co.
drew upon its own holdings of
cash, etc., for £22,562 and in-
creased the amount coming to
trade creditors by £12,424. In-
eluding shareholdings, the im-
provement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£82,143) was
£47,523.
Although India, Pakistan and
Indonesia are restricting their
imports, the Australian pack of
canned fruits for 1950 is larger
than the 1949 one, except for
peaches, and Britain has taken
practically all the export sur-
plus. Tinplate has been in
better Simnlv but r*nn-
De . ller SU PP|Y» DUI glass COn-
tamers are still short of require-
mpnfc nnrl mn tinnp tn t-Joo
rncnis, ana costs continue to rise.
tI J^T noli a ords eW haTaS S
vanced from 325. to 345. fid. in
the market. At the higher figure
the return is 4 6 dc on an 8
P-C . div. basis. The prefs. at
325. yield 5 p.c. Cover in net
tangibles is £lO 17s. Bd. prefs.
and 30s 2d ords
and 30s. 2d. ords.
t i,
Formed in 1928 and now
under Anglo-Oriental manage-
ment ’ thls Mala Y an Producer
represents a merger of the old
Kuala* Kampar, Malim Nawar
o j rJT .•
South and Tanjong Tualmg COS.
in the Kfilta Valley. It got its
No 3 dredee into commercial
, uicuge into commercial
production again On Oct. 1,
194? No 1 on Mav 1 1948
Vr „ A y In , n ’
ar ld INO. I On AUg. lb, 1949.
Nos. 1 and 3 have a capacity
of 3,000,000 c.y. p.a. each.
No. 2, a big deep-digging
machine with a pre-war capacity
of 5,500,000 c.y. p.a., which was
capsized, badly damaged and
half-buried in silt, had to be
dismantled and re-erected. The
work, which was a fine piece of
engineering skill, took \l\
months.
The co. has a paid capital of
£615,000 in 10s. shares, and
earnings and profits have
responded as the yardage
handled increased and the price
of tin strengthened. Treatment
and recovery figures, etc., com-
pare as follows:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Treated, ’OOO, c.y. 1286 5135 8419
Recov’d, t. 0., tons 274.6 999.5 2412.0
Yield, lb., c.y... 0.48 0.44 0.64
Costs, pence, c.y. 5.94 6.08 6.25
Last term’s total production, in-
cluding recoveries from No. 2
during the trial run, were 2436.3
tons t. 0., assaying 75.7 p.c., or
1844.9 tons metallic tin. No. 2
produced 1167.7 tons of the tin-
ore, and handled some above-
average ground. The average
price received for ore sold was
equivalent to £566.5 (up £l9) per
ton metallic tin. Including taxa-
tion (£88,000) and the amount
written off restoration expendi-
ture (£16,000), all-in costs were
£406.2 per ton, leaving a profit
of £160.3 per ton.
Here are p. and 1, figures:
1949. 1950.
Gross ..£431,088 £1,057,890
Exes. . . 300,927 765,817
Profit ..£130,161 292,073
P.c. cap... 21.1 47.4
Divs. .. Nil 30 p.c.+= £147,600*
t Nominal rate. * After deducting 20 p.c.
tax.
Last term’s .gross earnings in-
clude £22,918 from tributes,,
etc., and exes, include amounts
already mentioned for taxation
and writing off. A 20 p.c. tax
reduces the declared rate of div.
(30 p.c.) to 20 p.c. sterling, which
is equal to 30 p.c. in Australian
currency at the current rate of
exchange the accounts are
presented in sterling.
Ore reserves aren’t mentioned
in the report, but appearances
are that there is about
200,000,000 c.y. of 0.481 b. dirt
yet to be treated.
At end March last the co.
had £541,993 in cash, book
debts, etc., to meet current lia-
bilities of £174,550, including
the final div. (£110,700) and tax
provision (£18,000). Stores and
spares figure at £245,863. There
was a rehabilitation loan of
£261,240, most or all of which
is likely to be offset by the
amount to be received for war
damage, etc. —the Japs extracted
4380 tons of tin from the
property.
The London average spot price
of tin has rocketed from £SS9O
per ton for April last to £S7B4
for August, and stood at £SB27
on Oct. 4. How long the figure
will remain around present levels
depends largely upon the tempo
of the rearmament race. Pro-
duction has outstripped current
commercial demand. Another
imponderable is the banditry
problem in Malaya.
On Sydney ’Change the scrip,
which fluctuated between 15s.
3d. and 28s. since the beginning
of 1950, stood at 275. 6d. last
weekend.
“Sumting Nutting”: The
Eldorado Mine at Tennant
Creek is suffering from top-
heaviness, and it is up to the
shareholders to put their house
in order. The mine is not badly
managed ; in fact, local opinion
is that it is easily the best-
managed mine on the field. The
mine costs, as set out in the
balance-sheet at 28/6/’5O, are
reasonable at £4 15s. a ton. But
according to that balance-sheet
the salaries, fees, expenses and
directors’ fees add another £3900
(enough to pay a 3d. dividend),
bringing the total overall costs
to nearly £6 a ton. This small
mine, producing 5500 tons of
ore a year, is loaded with a board
of six directors and a firm of
consultants.


Men Who Know Wine...
Know
is Best
V
m
iff
.
BSSD.I.4®
A GRAND DOG
Wirehair Terrier
"BEECROFT-BERESINA"
By champ. Flornell Conquest (imp.),
ex champ. Burndale Balalaika. 50
firsts, 10 challenges, 9 reserves. The
record states 6 times best of breed:
4 times best bitch and twice best
exhibit.
* I
Slii
I' 4 *
5
-
$0*
0^
jijK
$1
*
m
&
m
cv
S ;SSV ~<•, v
FINE CUT TOBACCO
Also BRIGHT and DARK Flake Cuf for the Pipe.
COMPANY CAPITALS AND DIVIDENDS.
Share prices in Australia, still
around record levels, express a
mixture of investment factors
and rii^ves.
Firstly mere is the profit-
prospect factor, based on the un-
satisfied demand for nearly
all classes of goods. Though
profit-margins may be restricted,
so far they are assured, and
stock-values tend to go up
instead of down. Then there is
the prospect of future industrial
expansion, which undoubtedly
deserves attention. Also, there is
the flood of , new investment
money available, carrying all
new issues along with it in its
rush and sending old stocks
higher. Finally there is the infla-
tion factor: people see prices
and costs rising on all sides, and,
unable to buy immediately the
homes and other things they
may need, they invest their
savings in shares in the hope
that some inflationary increment
in Stock Exchange prices will
tend to offset other inflation.
There are, of course, periodic
moments of uncertainty. The
question of revaluation, with
prospects of an adjustment in
capital values in the Common-
wealth as well as export prices,
comes and goes. War scares,
too, have had occasional “bear-
ish” influences, though not with
experienced investors who know
war to be synonymous with
inflation. Coal strikes have
an immediate effect on heavy
industry—in fact, industry is at
all times at the mercy of the
coalminers. Another feature of
the market that often causes
concern is the low yields avail-
able from most stocks. It is
very obvious that profits of
industry are not increasing at the
same rate as either wages or
share prices.
Though there has been, as
already mentioned, a flood of
new capital issues since the war,
with offerings for 1950 expected
to be a record at something
more than £5B million, com-
pared with about £46 million in
1949, a great deal of this money
has been raised by companies
which have come on the Stock
Exchange in post-war years.
Alteration in the law relating to
private-company income - tax
accelerated conversion to public
companies.
Following are a list of rep-
resentative Australian companies
of the older order, showing
capital development since World
War II began, with dividend
comparisons. It will be seen
that, as a general thing, profits
of big Australian industries have
not kept pace with inflation, and
that some are not paying divi-
dends even at as high a monetary
rate as in 1939.
Broken Hill Proprietary
has increased its capital from
£6,950,776 to £18,472,656 over
the past 11 years. Of this,
£4,445,859 represents the capital-
isation of share premiums in
1940, £2,465,118 the proceeds of
a par issue in 1941, and
£4,587,754 the proceeds of a new
issue made in 1949 at a pre-
mium of 10s. a share. Plant
capacity has been greatly in-
creased, and in this period the
co. and its subsidiaries have
written off £25,111,809 in depre-
ciation. The chief subsidiary,
Australian Iron and Steel,
has paid only one ord. div. (5
p.c., in 1946) to the parent co..
ploughing back any surpluses
over pref. divs. into the business.
B.H.P. paid a 12| p.c. div. in
1939; last year’s div. was 8j
p.c., a rate unchanged for three
years. For the four years 1943-
1946 inclusive the rate was 5 p.c.
B.H.P. is in the process of
establishing a tinplate industry
in Australia. More capital may
be needed to see the project
through, especially as plant has
to be bought in the U.S.A.
Adelaide Steam’s paid capi-
tal has remained unchanged at
£2,325,135 since 1939. The war
years were unsatisfactory for
Australian shipping cos., which
“So what , Charlie? Plenty more jobs!”
were under strict Government
control where their vessels were
not actually under charter. The
Adelaide co.’s big passenger
liners were requisitioned for war
service, and have only within the
past couple of years been
brought back into commercial
running. Adelaide has a spread
of investments outside its own
shipping business, and these in-
clude coal. In 1939 Adelaide
paid 1\ p.c. During the war the
rate fell to p.c., afterwards to
6 p.c., and at present it is 5 p.c.
Burns Philp has financed a
period of considerable business
expansion and property-pur-
chase without asking share-
holders for any more capital,
which today stands at £2,000,000,
as in 1939. Though costs of re-
placing shipping have soared,
finances remain extremely com-
fortable, arid the div. has risen
from 10 p.c. to \l\ p.c. since
War II began. Shareholders
have expected more, especially
in the way of bonus issues (re-
serves of various kinds now
totalling 445. Bd. per £1 share),
but so far have been dis-
appointed.
Tooth and Co., of Sydney,
with the largest brewing business
in the Commonwealth, has seen
its capital remain unchanged at
£6,182,657 since 1939, though it
has been a period of great ex-
pansion. Actually, shareholders
have been asked to put up no
more than £562,064 (1936) since
1925, though capital has grown
from £3,108,000 by bonus issues
and absorptions.
The div.-rate for Tooth’s was
12 p.c. in 1939; the last de-
claration was 15 p.c., and though
visible net tangible assets were
then only 265. lid. a share, the
sharemarket considers them to
be worth vastly more.
Toohey’s capital has re-
mained unchanged at £1,732,500
since an issue was made in 1938.
But shareholders are now being
offered 433,125 new 16s. shares,
at a premium of 10s. a share,
which will carry paid capital up
to £2,079,000. The div., which
was 9 p.c. in 1939, fell to 8 p.c.
in 1942, and has remained steady
since. But the co. has improved
its brew meantime and strength-
ened the business considerably.
Capital of the Bank of N. S.
Wales has remained unchanged
at £8,780,000. Div. in 1939 was
6 p.c. Current rate is 8 p.c.
Associated Pulp and Paper
was floated in 1936 to manu-
facture fine writing and printing
paper at Bumie, Tasmania. At
the outbreak of World War II
its capital stood at £1,200,000.
It is now £3,200,000. The first
div. was 3 p.c., in 1940. The
rate has been unchanged since
at 6 p.c. The co.’s selling-prices
were subject to strict price-
control during war-time, and
the co. has been able to do little
in the way of building up visible
reserves, though intangibles paid
for at flotation are now offset
by profit-surpluses over divi-
dends. Plant capacity has been
considerably expanded.
Australasian Paper and
Pulp at present has a paid capi-
tal of £4,137,479. A new issue
of ords. now being made at a
premium of 2s. 6d. each will
carry issued capital up to
£9,008,212, and which will be
fully paid by the end of 1951.
Before the war Australasian
Paper and Cumberland Paper
together had a total paid capital
of £1,902,740. All the great
development since (part of
which has been paid for by the
issue of £2,250,000 of debentures
by the working co., Australian
Paper Manufacturers) has yet
to yield a full return. As in
so many other cases, war condi-
tions and industrial expansion
have meant lower immediate
divs. for A-P. and P. share-
holders. Up to 1941 8 p.c. divs.
were paid. Since then the rate
has been 6 p.c., which, it is
hoped, will be maintained on
the new capital now being
raised.
Capital-expansion in what
used to be known as “the Glass
company” has been notable
over the 11 years. Australian
Consolidated Industries in
September, 1939, had a share-
register total of £3,664,292.
About that time a new issue of
996,941 ords. at a premium of
ss. was made, while a further
448,623 ords. at a premium of
295. each were put out in Octo-
ber, 1948. In March this year a
£1,000,000 par issue was offered,
and £789,577 of share premiums
was capitalised, taking paid
capital up to its present figure
of £6,899,433.
A.C.l.’s ord. div. in 1939 was
6.86 p.c. At present it is 9 p.c.
British Tobacco was once
Australia’s largest business cor-
poration. It is already out-
stripped, in size of capital, by
8.H.P., and will soon be ex-
ceeded by the C.S.R. British
Tobacco’s paid capital in 1939
was £9,619,186. It is now
£12,421,369. The increase was
partly due to the absorption of
the business of Carreras, Ltd.,
in 1940, for £1,463,335 in scrip.
In 1949 there was an issue of
1,338,848 ords. at a 20s. pre-
mium.
The div. paid by British
Tobacco on its ords. in 1939
was 10 p.c. It paid 9 p.c. from
1941 until 1949, and there has
been an interim of 8 p.c. for
1950. The co. has had a great
deal of difficulty with price-
control authorities ever since
the system was established, and
there have been problems in
getting sufficient factory staff.
The co.’s subsidiaries are still
unable to meet the demand for
tobacco and cigarettes.
Colonial Sugar has recently
issued 117,000 new £2O shares
at a premium of £7 each. They
will take paid capital up to
£14,040,000. This is the first
movement in capital since 1939,
when it stood at £11,700,000.


The importance of
Keeping your Will
up-to-date
Failure to keep your
Will up to date may result in
much anxiety, endless trouble
and legal costs for those whose
welfare you have at heart.
Changes in family conditions,
deaths births marriages,
changes in assets; changes in
economic conditions necessitate
alterations to a Will so that it
expressed the real intentions of
the Testator.
Make a point of looking over
your Will to-day; when doing
so it will be wise to consider
carefully your choice of Execu-
tor and Trustee.
m
«,Sa -
'ir'
p *S\
3 ii
tl'-P
;®s§rr.
1-iL^TrT
T
fefi
Consider the advantages of the services rendered in
this capacity by Perpetual Trustee Company Limited.
The Company is specially constituted to undertake its
duties. Its service is perpetual. It is not subject to
the disadvantages of illness or old age. It is never
absent but always available for consultation. Its capital
and reserves, amounting to over £500,000, provide tang-
ible security for its integrity. Its uncalled capital of
£BOO,OOO is an additional safeguard.
*Phone B 0377 or write for a copy of the booklet,
“Your Executor and Trustee”—that describes the Com-
pany’s service and charges.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSEN-
TEES AND OTHERS, AD-
MINISTRATOR, Etc.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUND
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68,000,000.
Directors: Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
£. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. JJEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN |
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAM WORTH and ORANGE
mm
a
m
*
? tit
*■
■
■
►
■R
OYER
8 0 0
FRONT
DOORS
One of these doors is near you —it is
the door to your local branch or agency
of the Bank of New South Wales.
The “Wales” is made up from over 800
such branches and agencies, large and
small, throughout Australia, New Zealand,
Fiji, Papua and New Guinea and two
branches in London.
At your own local branch there are
officers who know your district, understand
rm
m
-
your needs and ap-
preciate your point
of view. Through
your own branch,
you can command
the full range of
services of the first
bank in Australia.
It’s your bank and
we like to see you
make full use of it.
Consult and use
MS*
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
THE PEOPLE'S BANK SINCE 1817
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
ASO24d
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS;
O. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. VV. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager-
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Joint Pains
quickly
relieved
witfc
V
For Backache, Rheumatism
Joint Pains and Weak
Kidneys.
Take 1 or 2
GIN PILLS
with a glass-
ful of water
before meals
and on retir-
ing.
dfd
00S
Joint Pains are often
caused through Weak
Kidneys permitting excess
uric acid to escape and
collect in the system
Correct this condition—
help your kidneys back to
proper functioning by
taking Dr. Sheldon's Gin
Pills.
GIN PILLS act directly cm the
Kidneys; stimulating their
action; relieving inflammation.
They quickly help your Kid-
neys to work normally again
so that they filter out accu-
mulated poisons from youi
body . . . bringing welcome
relief from Joint Pains and
Rheumatism. Assist your Kid-
neys by taking Dr. Sheldon ’<
Gin Pills NOW
Dr. SHELDON'S
2/- & 3/-
[, "
fd
The co. in the meantime has
been highly active in develop-
ments inside and outside the
sugar industry. Its building-
materials division has been de-
veloped rapidly since war began,
and the chemical section has
been expanding. The co.’s dis-
tilleries have increased their out-
put of rum and other spirits.
The C.S.R.’s div. rose from
6.9 p.c. in 1939 to 8* p.c. in
1940. It dropped to 8 p.c. in
1945 and 1946, and gradually in-
creased to 10* p.c. in 1949. For
1950 it was 9* p.c. The pre-
mium charged on the recent
issue of shares startled the
market, which had come to ex-
pect bonuses rather than to be
charged premiums on share-
issues. The need for the pre-
mium is justified by the present
high cost of replacing plant.
Capital of Drug Houses of
Australia has grown from
£2,439,912 to £3,405,000 since
1939. Some of the increase has
been in respect of other whole-
sale - druggist businesses ac-
quired, but most of it has been
issued to shareholders. The ord.
div. was 6i p.c. in 1939, and
this rate was continued up to
1945, when 8 p.c. was paid;
then back to 6* p.c. in 1946,
since when the rate has been
steady at 7 p.c.
Dunlop Rubber’s paid capi-
tal has remained unchanged at
£4,695,655 for 20 years, but a
new issue is now being made—
-941,414 ords. at a 10s. premium,
which will carry paid capital up
to £5,637,069. The ord. div.
was 7 p.c. in 1939 ; it dropped
to 5 p.c. in 1942, and stayed at
that level up till 1945; in 1947
it was lifted to the present rate
of 8 p.c.
Indicative of the phenomenal
expansion in the cotton-textile
trade, Bradford Cotton’s paid
capital, £222,742 in 1939, now
stands at £1,854,442. The co.’s
own activities and those of its
subsidiaries have grown rapidly.
Ord. div. was 12* p.c. in 1939 ;
it dropped to 10 p.c. in 1940 and
has been steady at that rate for
the past 10 years.
One of the most spectacular
developments on ’Change in
recent years has been that of
Felt and Textiles. It had a
paid capital of £119,930 in 1936.
By 1939 the figure was £831,914.
Present total is £4,349,674, and,
in addition, £1,000,000 of 4 p.c.
debentures has been issued.
The ord. div., 10 p.c. in 1939,
remained constant at that rate
until 1947, when it was raised
to 12i p.c.—still being paid.
Very busy on munitions dur-
ing the war were the subsidiaries
of Electricity Meter and
Allied Industries, Ltd. Paid
capital of the parent in 1939
was £571,218. The total is now
£1,662,382. Much of the in-
crease is the result of absorp-
tion of other businesses; sub-
sidiaries now number between
20 and 30. Ord. div. was 7\ p.c.
in 1939 ; after dropping to 6 p.c.
during the war it is now 8 p.c.
A feature of the co.’s accounts
is the very large stocks its group
is carrying.
General Industries the
Metters-K.F.B. merger—has ex-
panded its capital from £935,041
to £1,347,928 over the past 11
years. Ord. div. was p.c.
in 1939 ; it dropped to 10 p.c.
in 1943, and has remained at
that figure since. The co.’s sub-
sidiaries cannot meet present de-
mand for stoves, baths, etc.
Capital-increases since 1939
by G. J. Coles, one of Aus-
tralia’s largest chain-store con-
cerns, have been mostly of recent
date. In 1939 paid capital was
£1,333,890. Next new issue was
in 1948, when 260,000 £1 ords.
were put out at a premium of
30s, More recently a bonus issue
involving £465,454 of share-
premiums was made, and then
1,425,000 ss. ords. were offered
in exchange for the 285,000 £1
ords, in Selfridges, of Sydney.
Present paid capital is
£2,517,469. Ord. dividend in
1939 was 18| p.c. It dropped,
by steps, to 10 p.c. in 1943, re-
covered to 12 p.c. in 1946, and
to 15 p.c. in 1948, which is the
current rate of distribution.
Woolworth’s paid capital
was £1,388,998 in 1939. It is now
£2,193,982. The increase has
mostly been since 1947, all in
the form of cash issues, some at
a high premium. Ord. div. in
1939 was \l\ p.c. It dropped
as low as 11 p.c. during World
War II and is now at the rate of
15 p.c.
One of Australia’s key indus-
tries, Electrolytic Zinc, has
increased its capital from
£2,600,000 to £3,000,000 since
war began. The co. has been
developing output both at Ris-
don and also its Tasmanian
West Coast mines. All-round
div. in 1939 was 15 p.c. The
rate dropped to 9 p,.c, in 1942,
and did not rise until 11 p.c.
was paid in 1946. Rate for
1949 was 25 p.c., including
bonus. The co.’s production
was sold at low fixed prices to
British and Australian Govern-
ments during the war, and the
price for zinc in Australia is
now far below world parity.
The parent Peters Co., of
Sydney, has expanded its capi-
tal from £397,446 to £873,874
since 1949. The co. now con-
trols a large proportion of N. S.
Wales butter production. Div.
11 years ago was 8.9 p.c. Last
payment was at the rate of 9
p.c., which has been maintained
for the past eight years.
In the food-canning business
United Provisions, represent-
ing a 23-year-old merger of
Huttons and Foggit Jones,
has not increased its capital,
£1,400,000, since its inception.
The co.’s 1939 ord. div. was at
the rate of 3 p.c. It got up to
8 p.c. in 1945 and 1946 under
stimulus of war demands, but it
fell away again, and the rate for
1949 was 5 p.c., with this year’s
interim 4 p.c.
Australia’s largest and best-
known woollen-textile business,
Yarra Falls, Ltd., had an un-
changed capital a round
£1,000,000 during the war
period. But paid capital is now
to be doubled by the issue of
another million shares, Div.
rate in 1939 was 10 p.c. It
dropped slightly from 1943 to
1946, then rose to \2\ p.c. in
1947, 171 pc. in 1948, dropped
to 121 P-c. in 1949, and interim
for 1950 has been at the rate
of 10 p.c.
Among the pastoral cos.,
Goldsbrough Mort has in-
creased its capital from
£2,400,000 to £3,200,000 since
war began. Its 1939 div. was
41 p.c. Current rate is 12 p.c.
High wool prices, of course,
have changed the co.’s earning
prospects. During the war the
div. rate fell as low as 5 p.c.
Capital of Myer Emporium,
the big Melbourne retailer, has
remained unchanged at
£2,479,950 since 1939 up to the
present time. Last ord. div. was
10 p.c., compared with 9 p.c.
before the war.
The Greater Union group of
motion-picture holding cos. have
shown no capital-expansion for
a very long period. The group
is comprised of Wests,
Spencers, Greater J. D.
Williams and Amalgamated
Pictures, and it had its expan-
sion fling before the depression
of the 1930’5. The last seven
years have been comparatively
prosperous.
The decision by Canada to
allow its exchange to run free
in relation to the United States
dollar, with the result that it has
firmed to around 95 U.S.
cents (previously a Canadian
dollar was worth 90 U.S.
cents), has been accepted
as an anti-inflationary move by
the Dominion. It is a move
which also cuts ground from
under the feet of Professor Cop-
land, who, arguing against up-
valuation of the Australian
pound, has contended that
countries which appreciated
their currencies in recent years
had regretted it, and instanced
New Zealand among other re-
gretful countries. Canada has
had previous experience of
appreciation and depreciation.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Ladies’ Day at the Spring Meeting
proved that dressing in Sydney has
sobered down to a level standard of good
taste and that the glad, mad days of the
“New Look” are truly over. However,
if the New Look is dead, its soul goes
marching oir, For the silhouette it intro-
duced has won the day over the square-
shouldered, straight-hipped look that went
before. All the best suits were shaped
to the waist, padded only lightly on the
shoulders and rounded at the hips even
with straight skirts. Few of the fashion-
able dresses had set-in sleeves, but were
cut so that the shoulder-seam ran from
neckline to sleeve without padding of any
kind. The prevalence of navy and white
was a symptom of the safe elegance that
prevailed. The hats, on the whole, were
rather more adventurous and picturesque.
Mrs. Bill Murrell wore with distinction
the “Flying Saucer” hat seen at Anne
Collins’ parade. Mrs. Don Service was
striking in the “umbrella” hat she
modelled at the Kinneil cocktail-party
last week. One of the drawbacks of see-
ing so many fashion-parades early in the
season is that few of the clothes worn
at the races have any element of surprise.
But Surprise was an also-ran on Ladies’
Day. Good Taste came first.
The Black-and-White Ball was as lush
arid plush as the great expectations held
for it. Although the Troc. was full to
overflowing, interest in the dresses made
as many spectators as dancers, so that
there was no rude jostling, no crush. All
was dignity, grace and decorum. The
fbunger set, which went all-out for white
organdie, strapless bodices, bouffant skirts,
short hair-cuts and the open-mouth look
of pleased surprise as featured in the
American magazines, was so prettily
uniform that it was rather hard to dis-
tinguish one girl from another. Excep-
tions were English beauty Susan Middle-
ditch in a black sheath gown with white
feathers in her hair and cute little Annette
Dunlop, who tied up her hair with white
ribbons on each side of her face. Elaine
Blanshard wore a beautiful dress of white
brocade, ruffling round the bodice and
cascading to a bustle at the back. Barbara
Ley’s dress of black patterned on white
was specially printed to her design. The
Charleston was a highlight of the evening,
when mammas and papas, aunts and
uncles showed the young things a few
points in footwork.
When 500 graziers held a protest meet-
ing on the Copland tax proposal Mrs.
Mac Smith, of Boree Cabonne, Borenore,
spoke on behalf of countrywomen. She
quoted Ruskin: “He shall keep who
justly earns” in her argument that wool-
growers should not be victims of sectional
taxation. She won applause by saying
that farm-women expected to have a share
in the prosperity of land industries ; being
just as fond of refrigerators, nice clothes
and comfortable furniture as any other
women, they would fight Professor Cop-
land’s scheme, which would mean a denial
to them of the things they had waited
for. Mrs. Mac Smith wore the popular
navy and white with a grey fur stole.
When learning puts on a procession it’s
something worth seeing, as the Centenary
celebrations at the University proved last
week. Hundreds of graduates visited the
quadrangle to hear the carillon again
playing “Gaudeamus Igitur” and to see
the University authorities and staff pro-
ceed to the Great Hall clad in all the
medieval splendor they could muster.
There was a fair sprinkling of women
in the procession, heads of colleges,
lecturers, teaching Fellows—but they
didn’t take the honors for dress, this time
being far outshone by the Chancellor in
black and gold braid, Archbishop Mowll
and Cardinal Gilroy in scarlet, the Lord
Mayor in black with lace ruffles and his
magnificent chain of office, the uniforms
of the Army, Navy and Air Force leaders,
and the flowing gowns, yellow and black
and green and red, of the professors. The
undergraduates put on their gowns and
their very best behavior, welcoming the
visitors and cheering from the roof-tops.
In the Great Hall candles in branched
sconces flickered against the stone, em-
phasising the atmosphere of quietness and.
old-time that spread over the ceremony.
The Prime Minister, clad in a handsome
red robe with grey facings, but without a
hat (he couldn’t get one big enough, he
said), stressed the civilising function of
learning and the importance of every
University possessing complete academic
freedom of thought. “As a man thinks,”
he said, “so he shall go free. As he does,
so he shall be judged.”
After the ceremony in the Great Hall,
the deans of the various faculties enter-
tained graduates at afternoon-tea. The
Faculty of Arts had a lively and crowded
reception (plenty of women here), all
rather pleased that the Prime Minister in
his address had indicated, even if he didn’t
say it in so many words, that Arts was
the heart and centre of the University,
Medicine, Law, etc., being subsidiary to
it. At the Law reception, things were
more quiet-paced, some women gradu-
ates being present, including Sybil Green-
well, who was one of the first women to
become a lawyer in Australia.
Phyllis Rogers, soprano, is to sing with
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra and
Hurlstone Choral Society in the Ninth
Symphony of Beethoven under the direc-
tion of Sir Bernard Heinze at the Town
Hall on October 14 and 16. Recently
she was heard as soloist in Bach’s great
Mass in B Minor, was leading soloist with
the Royal Philharmonic Society in
“Hiawatha” and last year did two Bach
cantatas at the Conservatorium under the
direction of Ivan Rixon. Phyllis, who is
Sydney-born, is a discovery of Eugene
Goossens. Her hobby is pottery, which
she was taught by her mother, but her
greatest happiness in life is to sing. Photo
by Tony deal.
Many were saddened last week to hear
of the death of Mrs. John Delaney, who
was Moyna Martin before her marriage
and who wrote under the name of Musette
Morell. A winning personality, with a
host of friends in the Sydney literary
world, Mrs. Delaney was known as radio-
dramatist, writer of children’s books, poet
and short-story writer. Some of her early
work was published in The Bulletin.
The University Musical Society, one of
the most joyous of the younger-set organi-
sations, held their dinner at the Union
Refectory and a concert in the Town Hall
last Thursday. At the dinner, two of
their moving spirits, Peggy Bradhurst and
Colin Russell-Jones, announced their en-
gagement. Peggy is a graduate in science
and, is a Teaching Fellow of the Univer-
sity. Colin,' who was famous in his
R.A.A.F. days for his handlebar
moustache, is in his fifth year of medicine.
In urgent need of financial aid is the
Family Welfare Bureau, which helps
families in times of sickness, emotional
crisis, money-trouble and all other diffi-
culties which beset people on or near the
breadline. They help them, not by en-
couragement to become dependent on
others, but by showing the way to solve
problems. Donations, which are free
from taxation, should be sent to the
F.W.8., cnr. Martin-place and Phillip-
streets. Those who would like to help
form a Younger Set Auxiliary or who
are willing to offer accommodation to
the children of working mothers should
ring 8W6620.
A gay luncheon-party was given by
Lady Braddon at the Pickwick to fare-
well Mrs. Joe E. Brown, who will return
to America this week. Mrs, Brown’s
charming personality has not been spot-
lighted here quite so much as her actor-
husband’s, but in America she is famous
for her active philanthropic work on
behalf of Catholic charities, where she
works with one of the biggest organisa-
tions in the United States. Among Lady
Braddon’s guests were the Countess
Podlewska, Mrs. E. W. Corney, Mrs. K.
H. Rahman, whose husband is Trade
Commissioner for Pakistan, Mrs. W.
Inglis, Mrs. Miculicic-Rodd, wife of the
Consul for Yugoslavia, Mrs. Gladys Lister
and Lady Plowman. Both Lady Plowman
and Mrs. Lister are to arrange tables in
the Table-setting Competition at Anthony
Hordern’s commencing October 23. Mrs.
Lister has chosen to decorate a children’s
birthday-party table. This competition,
in aid of the Anti-T.B. Association,
should be of great interest to homemakers.
From Melbourne
Colored lights twinkled on every tree
and shrub in Government House garden,
while a round yellow moon shone benevo-
lently on the scene. At the entrance to
the ballroom groupings of poplars were
set, and in the ballroom poplars and
small ornamental trees provided a setting
for glowing cinerarias. At intervals
around the cream walls were hung gilded
baskets filled with cyclamen and blos-
som. Blossom mixed with tall white
lilies were used in the State drawing-
room and in other reception rooms. Silver
candelabra and low bowls of lovely mixed
flowers were set on the buffet supper-
tables. In this fairy-tale setting Jeanette,
only daughter of the Governor of Vic-
toria, Sir Dallas Brooks, and Lady
Brooks, celebrated her 21st birthday. For
over an hour Jeanette and her parents
stood receiving the 600 guests who had
come to toast the guest-of-honor. Lady
Brooks was gowned in soft petal-pink
lace over matching satin. Jeanette’s
white tulle gown was high-waisted,
and at the hem there were three
bouffant frills in which were tucked
clusters of tiny rosebuds. The low-cut
bodice was shirred and rounded and
finished with shoestring straps. Eliza-
beth Northcott, daughter of the Gover-
nor of N.S.W., who was Jeanette’s guest
at G.H., wore a pearl-pink satin gown
woven with tiny rosebuds; a floating
panel fell from a small bustle. The Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney, was in bead-
encrusted white crepe. Mrs. T. T. Holl-
way seemed to float on a sea of beige
lace. Smoke-grey tulle was the choice
of Mrs. John Collins, wife of the First
Naval Member. Shaded French roses
were tied with grey ribbons at the back
of the neckline.
A fascinator of lace matched the pale-
caramel lace gown worn by Lady Mur-
doch. Mrs. A. G. Hunter’s black tulle
was heavily encrusted in a gold-leaf de-
sign at the hem and low decollete bodice.
Mrs, John Baillieu’s Grecian gown was
pleated, and contrasting with its daffodil
toning were black gloves and patent-
leather belt. Elizabeth Anne Spraggett,
whose father, Col. W. H. Spraggett, is
private secretary to the Governor, danced
in palest pink tulle, Penelope Giles in a
bouffant gown of white tulle, Anne Wil-
ton in French satin of lime, grey and
white stripes.
Audrey King, of Sydney, wore one of
the prettiest filmy gowns. Of white
Swiss organza, it was splashed with pink
roses and green-and-grey leaves. Pauline
Wallis pinned pink roses at the waist of
her full-skirted gown of black chiffon.
Tomato-red chiffon was worn by Mrs.
Gordon Byron-Moore. Marigold Mani-
fold’s gown of citrus-green satin was cut
on classical lines. Jill Manifold’s pic-
ture-gown was of diagonally-striped taffeta
in blue and pink. Kitty Synott wore a
matching lace stole with her strapless
gown of magnolia lace, which had gold
French roses at the waistline. Jane Casey,
who was with her mother, Mrs. R. G.
Casey, wore cream lace mounted on soft-
pink satin. Her cousin, Miranda Casey,
wore lime-green taffeta.
This is an Athol Shmith portrait of
Jeanette, daughter of the Governor, Sir
Dallas Brooks, and Lady Brooks.
Mrs. Harold Bettle’s Toorak home was
the setting for the annual meeting of the
American Women’s Auxiliary to the
Children’s Hospital. The main business
concerned the election of office-bearers
for the coming year. Mrs. E. C. Daum
becomes president in place of Mrs. W. W.
Killough; vice-president is Mrs. F.
Heathcote Wright; Miriam Ramey,
daughter of the U.S. military attache,
Col. Ramey, becomes recording-secre-
tary. Two guests were present at the
meeting: Mrs. George Clarke, who is a
new American resident in this city, and
Betty Minor, from Nashville, Tennessee,
who is visiting Miriam Ramey.
A feature of the dressing at the
premiere of “Worm’s Eye View,” the
latest Comedy offering, which assays high
in laughs, was the discarding of black
in favor of pinks and pastels. Pearl-grey
was a favorite, with pink in every shade
also to the fore. Mrs. Simon Fraser’s
pink-brocade gown was outstanding. An
unusual cap of feathers lit up the pastel
grey-blue crepes worn by Betty Wallace
Mitchell. Mrs. Sam Pierce’s sheath frock
of black satin had the bodice cut to leave
one shoulder bare. A gown of soft
delphinium-blue crepe was worn by Mrs.
H. A. Cavanaugh with a marmot coat.
Silver beads were splashed on Mrs. Frank
Tait’s black silk-jersey gown. Also in
black was Mrs. Bill Gluth, whose sheath
frock was made with a portrait neckline
outlined with pink tulle and appliqued
with lace flowers. Back in circulation
after her recent illness, Mrs. Stella Lane
was in multi-toned checks. Mrs. George
Griffith covered her grey-and-silver frock
with a white Arctic-fox stole. A black
velvet pearl-encrusted gown was the
choice of Mrs. Garnet Carroll. Beverley
Buxton, who was with her mother, wore
lilac-and-cyclamen-striped taffetas of
ballerina length. Grey crepe, silver-bead
embroidered, was worn by Mrs. T. J.
Ryan. Mrs. P. J. Ward matched her
floral gown with a wide stole.
A glimpse of gracious living came
with Wine Week celebrations. Excellent
wines were tasted, judged and toasted by
the discriminating. At every luncheon
and dinner given by the Wine Board,
smooth, palatable wines which were a
complement of good food, were served
with each course. The celebrations
wound up with an informal dinner-
dance given by the committee of the
Wine Board at the Delphic. Mrs. R. A.
Smith danced in a bouffant black tulle
gown made over flesh-pink satin, Mrs.
Ken Hardy’s frock was a cloud of smoke-
blue chiffon, Mrs. M. Dunham was in
turquoise-blue faille, Mrs. Clyde Cooley's
white organzas were printed in midnight-
blue and green tulips. Unusual was the
amber chiffon-pleated gown worn by
Mrs. Cass Du Rieu with its inset-pleated
panels of dark- and light-grey chiffon.
Mrs. Tom Angove’s satins were
appropriate to the occasion: deep-wine.
White guipure lace edged the top of the
ice-blue faille strapless gown worn by
Mrs. Bruce Beasley. Pale-green chiffons
were the choice of Mrs. Percy Hayes.
Ann Belgrave’s gown was ice-blue satin
and had silver beading outlining the
bodice. Mrs. David Wynn topped her
slim black satin skirt with a strapless
bodice of gold lame. Mrs. Fergus Canny
wore black satin.
Joan, only daughter of Mrs. E, H.
Kinnear, of Queen’s-road, and the late
Mr. Kinnear, and her bevy of ’maids
were all in white for her marriage at
St. John’s, Toorak. The bride’s gown
was of satin and tulle and a bouffant
satin skirt was caught at each side to
reveal a tulle underskirt. The wide neck-
line of the long-sleeved bodice was out-
lined with tulle and pearl embroidery. A
tulle veil, held in place with a head-
hugging cap of white satin embroidered
with pearls, misted the bridal gown. Joan
carried a small bouquet of gardenias and
lily-of-the-valley. Pip Agnew, of Tas-
mania, Mary Morrison, of Teesdale, and
Anne Murphy were bridesmaids. Their
goWns of chiffon mounted on satin had
bouffant skirts and horseshoe-shaped
necklines encrusted at the edge with
pearls. They carried small bouquets of
lily-of-the-valley and stephanotis and
wore head-hugging caps to match their
gowns. The bridegroom, who is the
younger son of Mr. and Mrs. C. C.
Moore, of Toorak, had John Officer for
best man and Bill Armstrong and Tony
Matthews as groomsmen. The reception
was at Menzies’.
Mrs. Essington Lewis, the most
enthusiastic worker Y.W.C.A. has ever
been fortunate to have on its committee,
has just returned from overseas —the first
trip abroad she has had for 30 years.
Highlights of the trip were being received
by the King and Queen, a night at the
Albert Hall, at which Princess Margaret
received the purses collected all over
England for the Y.W.C.A., and a visit
to the Duke and Duchess of Buccleuch
at Drumlamrig Castle —their daughter,
the Duchess of Northumberland, formerly
Lady Elizabeth Scott, was well-known in
this city when she was stationed here as
a member of the Women’s Royal Naval
Service. As president of Y.W.C.A. Mrs.
Essington Lewis visited all oveiseas
branches she possibly could, including
those in Bombay, Colombo and the
association’s headquarters in Geneva.
Today she will be guest-of-honor at the
social afternoon which Y.W. is holding,
and at which final results of the Spring
Fair will be announced.


MB
sf
df
WINES
GOOD FOR MORE
THAN A CENTURY
PERSONAL ITEMS
New president of the R.S.L. in South
Australia, T. C. Eastick hasn’t much to
learn about the job ; he has been a vice-
president since 1947 and acting-president
since Arthur Blackburn, V.C., was forced
by pressure of work as conciliation com-
missioner to step down from the chair.
An artilleryman, Eastick took the 2/7
Regiment to the Middle East, was pro-
moted brigadier and became C.R.A. 7th
Division. After action in New Guinea,
and with a D.S.O. ribbon on his tunic,
he was switched to the 9th Division in
the same capacity and went with it to
Borneo.
R.A.N. frigate Condamine (classmate
of Shoalhaven of Korea) had a fair wind
reach her recently—the decision of Navy
Board to pay her salvage money for her
efforts in 1947 to refloat tanker Cyrena,
whom a fast cross-set ran up on a coral
shelf in the Trobriands. In charge was
Lt.-Cdr. Robert John Vere Hodge (alias
“Bunny”), for four war years gunnery-
jack of cruiser Australia —and with battle-
names like Dakar, Coral Sea, Guadal-
canal and Santa Cruz on her scroll, that
meant thousands of Sin. rounds’ worth
of gunnery. A keen mathematician —as
all gunnery officers must be —Hodge was
in his element judging stresses and strains
on the 4in. wires he put, first on Cyrena,
and, in response to an urgent “proceed
with dispatch” signal from Navy Office,
on Reynella, aground 170 miles to the
south in Jomard Passage, through which
the Jap invasion force for Moresby fled
from cruisers Australia,, Hobart and
•ihicago some years before. Another
first-class bit of seamanship was towing
an oil-lighter almost as heavy as Conda-
mine from Darwin to Fremantle, for a
good deal of the way on the unfriendly
edge of a cyclone. He’s now using his
ballistics know-how on the Centralian
rocket-range.
An interested onlooker at the King’s
Cup shoot at Swanbourne (W.A.) last
month was J. H. Bales, who won the
Queen’s Cup on the Williamstown Rifle
Range (Vic.) 60 years ago. A native of
Devonshire, he notched his first bull there
nearly 70 years ago, and represented
Drake’s county at Wimbledon, where
champion shots competed before the
Bisley range was opened. Arriving in
Melbourne in 1887, he became a mem-
ber of three rifle clubs, and in 1890, as
a lieutenant in the 2nd (Victorian) In-
fantry Militia Regiment, he won the
Queen’s, then worth £lOO and a trophy.
After practising as an architect in Mel-
bourne for 10 years, he moved to Perth
and founded the Royal Institute of Archi-
tects in Westralia. He was an examiner
of the institute until he retired five years
ago. At 86 he is still a big, upstanding
man, with a large flowing moustache of
the type military officers used to culti-
vate so assiduously 40 or 50 years ago.
There was a touch of Italian opera
about the arrival of Dr. Luca Dainelli,
Italy’s first consul to Melbourne since
1940, not only in appearance. Thirty-
five, dark, a bachelor with a Tyrolean
feather in his hat, and an expressed desire
to marry an Australian girl “because they
are so lovely,” he has been a diplomat
from the age of 22. He refused to do
service under the Nazis and went under-
ground, helped Allied p.-0.-w. and came
to the surface when Rome was liberated.
He then joined the Allied armies and for
services in the field got the American
Bronze Medal. He is a doctor of laws,
Tasmania has a musical family in the
Kimbers, who, like Melbourne’s musical
Bradleys, threaten to produce an infant
prodigy in their youngest member, Chris-
topher. At 12, the lad is making his first
Melbourne appearance in a violin recital
at AU Saints’ Church, St. Kilda. His
brother, William, five years older, tied
for first place in the open pianoforte
competition at Ballarat, and sister Beryl,
22, was recently reoorted as having
joined the famous Halle Orchestra at
Manchester as solo violinist with con-
ductor John Barbarolli. Five years ago
she won an A.B.C. scholarship to the
Royal Academy of Music, and
Hobartians presented her with a violin
valued at £5OO. Next year she is return-
ing for a concert tour of Australia.
Arnold Lunn, the English Catholic
lecturer, author and debater, and W.
Glanville Cook, secretary of the Austra-
lian Rationalist Society, filled Mel-
bourne Uni.’s Wilson Hall to over-
flowing when they debated for nearly
three hours the issue; Is the
Catholic Church intolerant and a bar to
progress? Another packed house attended
the transference of the argument to the
Assembly Hall. Lunn filled another hall
with another subject when he talked
about ski-ing, of which he is a leading
English exponent. He ichsafed the
surprising informat i >rwegian ski-
ing took root on th ' Kosciusko
and Mount Buffalo t-efov it was intro-
duced to Switzerland m the ’eighties.
With as many books aboui he snow-
sport as about religion to his redit, he
was a Protestant before he embraced
Catholicism ; one of his early works was
an indictment of the latter. W. Glanville
Cook is the son of a Protestant
missionary and was born in the South
Seas, One of his brothers is in holy
orders.
Ronald McGreal, the young and
enthusiastic secretary of the Library
Board of N.S.W., caused Dubois’s pencil
to work overtime asi the artist hurried to
get his victim’s rapidly-changing visage
down on paper. Now in his early forties,
McGreal, a Goulburn (N.S.W.) native
and Sydney University graduate in
Arts, taught English in high schools
at Parramatta, Ballina, Gunnedah and
Cessnock, and when the Free Library
Movement was founded in 1937 assisted
in forming a branch at Cessnock. A
year later he was seconded to N.S.W.
Public Library to assist in the work of
the Libraries Advisory Committee and in
training teachers for school libraries.
When the Public Library established a
school to provide trained personnel for
its own and other libraries, McGreal
became one of its full-time lecturers. At
the outbreak of World War II he became
secretary of the Camp Library Service
which supplied more than a million books
and magazines to troops in mainland
camps and operational areas. In 1941,
BOSS OF THE BOOKS.
when the Army Education Service came
into being, he was given charge of its
library section —he later took under his
wing the R.A.N. library service and gave
a hand in establishing R.A.A.F. educa-
tional libraries, finding time also to act
as secretary of the N.S.W. Documentary
and Educational Films Council. After
four years as acting secretary of the
Library Board of N.S.W. his appoint-
ment as secretary was confirmed last
year. The Library Board was set up
under the N.S.W. Library Act (1937),
which enables municipal and shire
councils to establish public libraries
and provides for a State subsidy to assist
in financing them. The Act has now
been adopted by 100 councils, of which
73 have library services in operation.
Filling the vacant shoes of Dr. Murray
Falconer, neuro-surgical head of Dunedin
Hospital (M.L.), who is off to London,
Dr. Anthony James was born in Aus-
tralia. A Melbourne University man, he
practised in the Alfred Hospital before
crossing to M.L. in 1947. In Hitler’s war
he medicoed with the R.A.N., serving
two years in destroyers.
Mention of the name Mcßeath may
have had something to do with the cordial
reception accorded him in Melbourne by
the victim here presented—eminent
Scotchbyterian preacher from Edinburgh,
the Rev. Dr. Adam Burnet. A Glasgow
University man, the parson has been for
the past 12 years minister at St. Cuthbert’s,
that famous kirk in Prince’s-street,
Edinburgh, known to Scots the world
over. A voice like a bugle bears out the
adage that it’s in Edinburgh the best
English is spoken ; added to a friendly
physog and a silvery mane hair-tonic ad-
vertisers might envy, it’s earned him an
international reputation for preaching,
VOICE O’ THE KIRK.
nine invitations to tour America and
appointment as Warrack Lecturer on
Preaching. In War I with the Y.M.C.A.
in France, he had his four sons on active
service in the next war, three in the Royal
Navy, the eldest surgeon-lieutenant-com-
mander, The fourth lad was killed with
the R.A.F. Brought to Melbourne by the
Turnbull Trust, Dr. Burnet will preach
for three months at Scots Church. If he
chooses to introduce into his sermon
some of the Churchillian stories re-
counted during the sketching operation,
capacity congregations can be guaranteed.
The Bulletin sends birthday greetings
to an old friend and contributor, Jack
McLaren —he will be 63 on Friday—who
as “McNorth” wrote acres of “Abo”
paragraphs and many South Sea stories
for this paper before he packed his bag
for other parts. Son of a Presbyterian
clergyman, Jack was a Scotch College,
Melbourne, pupil before travelling
widely over the Pacific, managing copra
plantations and tasting the delights
and bitter fruits of beachcombing. His
experience of life on the outer rim
furnished him, like Louis Becke and
others, with a seemingly endless supply
of plots and characters, which on his re-
turn from his wanderings he soon began
to turn into marketable literary products.
In less than a year after his return he
wrote six serials. His list of published
books now runs to more than 30 (several
have been translated into French, Spanish,
Swedish, German and other languages),
of which the Australian reader is most
familiar with My Odyssey and My
Crowded Solitude.
A fighting fleet carries radar, which
will navigate it and land its shells through
opaque fog on (he upper-deck of an
enemy ship speeding at 20 knots across
14 miles of tumbling sea ; asdic, which
will shaft sonic fingers down through mid-
ocean gloom and return with the dimen-
sions, speed, depth and course of a dived
EYES OF THE NAVY.
submarine; gunnery-directors, whose
equipment will, among other Mandrakian
things, Plow for the roll of your own ship
and even the time-lag between the layer’s
decision to press his electric firing-trigger
and his muscle’s implementation of it.
But, far away and above all the conceded
iance of this uncannily accurate
! ■ pment the Fleet still does, and
ways will, rely on its human eyes for
efficient fighting. The radar-operator
must stare for hours, at a leaping trace of
light; the asdic-operator at his bearing-
ring ; and the director-layer, firing all
guns, is much happier with his enemy ir-
itis cross-wires, with radar as his aid in-
stead of the see-and-do-all. Herewith, by
Woolcott, Surgeon-Captain Henry Gault,
the R.A.N.’s senior eye-specialist, a man
who for many years has coddled and
corrected eyes strained through constant
application to high-powered binocular
lenses. Captain just under a year, he was
in two famous fights—with Collins against
Colleoni, and with Farncomb at Leyte.
Now in charge of Flinders Naval
Hospital.
War II Digger Colonel J. C. W.
O’Connor takes the position of Sergeant-
at-Arms in Westralia’s Assembly, vacant
through the recent death of Brig.-
General Martin. A solid 43, with a face
cut on the square, O’Connor had already
14 years’ militia service when Hitler
beat the gong, and had served in India,
Malaya and Japan. Later, on active ser-
vice, he got up to New Guinea and
Tokyo, and was for a time director of
Duntroon. Appointed State marshal for
the cancelled 1949 Royal tour, he is
Deputy Chief Commissioner of Scouts
for W.A., and keeps in trim at half
a dozen sports, including, as his jaw
might suggest, boxing.
Into the Silence;
In Brisbane, at 80, Herbert Henry Gayford,
for 28 years secretary of the Queensland Master
Builders’ Association, the Property Owners’
Association and other organisations. Born in
Essex (England) he came to Queensland in
1908.
In Perth, at 62, John Edward Roe, grandson
of Westralia’s first Surveyor-General. Born at
Roebourne, where his father, A. S. Roe, was
magistrate, he studied law, and for many years
was a leading member of the profession in
Perth. In his early life a competent oarsman,
he later became a keen angler.
At Kohupatiki, Hastings (N.Z.), at 79, F. A.
Bennett, first Maori to become an Anglican
bishop. He was consecrated Bishop of
Aotearoa in 1928, after holding a curacy at
Nelson and serving a period of missionary work
among the Maoris. One of his 14 sons, Lieut.-
Col. C. M. Bennett, was C.O. of the Maori
battalion in Hitler’s war.
At Nelson (N.Z.), at 59, Arthur Alice, who
captained Otago cricket team for several seasons
and represented the Dominion against Aus-
tralian teams in the 1920’5. Headmaster of
several schools and an all-round sport, he
excelled in Soccer, billiards, tennis and as a
sprinter.


The Charm
by "COL M"
HE looked down the slope. A little
while ago he had been lying
asleep down there on the flat in a
shallow hole under his ground-
sheet. Damn’ shallow, dug, as the
corporal had ordered them all to be dug,
by using bayonet-point as pick and
scraping the dirt out with the sharp edge
of a tin-hat. The shovel had been im-
pounded by the corporal. A training-
battalion corporal who, by the grace of
flat feet, would be a training-battalion
corporal to the end. “This is a real
stunt,” he had said. “Later on some time
you men might want to dig down in a
hurry and you’ll know how to use the
tools you have about you.”
Because Private Williams, known as
“Sandy,” was over six feet tall and broad
with it, he had had to shift more dirt, and
the dirt was near-granite. He was hungry.
His meal that day had come from the
third and final section of a tin six inches
'qng, four inches wide and half-an-inch
deep, packed by a chocolate firm and en-
titled “FiGd Emergency Ration.” He was
tired. Since reveille that morning they
had marched thirty-four miles, a typical
army march which had brought them in a
circle almost back to camp, in time to see
the lights of the canteen flick out. Almost
back, to warm tents.
The lieut. had come and looked at the
section’s diggings, part of the company’s
perimeter, and he’d said the men could
turn in for a couple of hours. There
would be work later on. Thus Sandy had
learned another lesson. No matter how
tired he was, no matter how cold the
night, he would never sleep again under
a rubber ground-sheet; for it had made
his body sweat, and when he was
wakened and crawled on to his feet the
wind had sunk its teeth into his wet
clothes and bit until his lips turned blue.
“Williams,” the corporal had said.
“Come on. Get up. Get your gear on.
Now listen. This stunt doesn’t wind-up
till morning and a lot’s going to happen
between now and then. There’s some big
brass visiting the camp tonight, and later
they’ll coming out here to look around.
One of the other companies is going to
attack us some time tonight. I don’t know
when. But there’s a Dutchman and an
American colonel, and the C.O. and ad-
jutant are going to bring them out here
to watch from up on the rise there near
the old assault course. Someone has got
to go up and keep an eye on them and see
that they don’t get tangled in the wire.
Not to say anything at all to them, just
keep out of sight, but warn them if they
look like getting tangled. You’ll go.”
AND Sandy had left and found his way
up through the darkness, and at last
he stood on the crest and looked about
him. The ridge led along to camp a
quarter-of-a-mile away. He could see it
now, for the moon had found a gap in the
cloud. He picked out the tent-lines.
Battalion Headquarters. The mess-huts.
The canteen on the edge of the ridge,
visible from down below. At first the
camp seemed dead. Then some activity
could be seen over to the left, a few lights
glinting while all else slept. So “B” Com-
pany was going to do the job. He turned
round and picked out the white road and
carefully watched it run back to camp.
Nothing doing yet. The brass would come
by road, walk the hundred yards to the
crest of the rise where he stood, and
watch from there. Brass had better sense
than to stumble round at night in gullies.
That left him time to settle in and get
the lie of the land. Different at night.
Things looked bigger, distances shorter.
Stare at a tree for long and it started to
dance. It came to him that now, with no
difficulty, he could pick out the wide
circle of scars the company had dug
down on the flat. He could see the silver
thread of the creek out beyond them and
most of the landscape for miles, on which
he was probably “sticking out,” as the
sergeant would say, “like the proverbial
country outhouse.” He was supposed to
keep out of sight unless the brass seemed
likely to run foul of the assault course, a
possibility becoming increasingly dimmer.
“What are you doing here?” the C.O.
would say.
“I’m here, sir, to warn you not to fall
into the wire.” That would sound
brilliant. He looked about—bracken
fern, a little rearranging. He left his
rifle and hunted around until he found a
long, thin branch dead on the ground,
and with it, and two short forked pieces,
he built the framework, a ridge-bar sup-
ported at each end, where the sparse
bracken was thickest. He went some dis-
tance away to gather twigs and fern for
the sides. These he built carefully, plac-
ing the bracken leaves right-side out, for,
reversed, they shone like silver. He took
up his rifle, slid it along inside the low
bracken tent and, lifting the front support
out of the way, and holding up the ridge-
bar with one hand, hel gently eased him-
self, feet-first, back in beside his rifle, re-
placed the support, and pulled the re-
maining heap of bracken mto the opening.
He lay watching the road through it. At
three feet it was just a patch of thicker
fern.
Sandy noticed that the light in “B”
Company’s lines at camp had disappeared.
They’d soon be on their way, and he’d
have a box-seat to watch it all. He heard
the sound of the car-engine, and saw the
headlights flash once, then feel out along
the road towards him.
THE car stopped right on the crest of
the road, and he watched the group
of men get out and begin walking slowly
across. They talked as they came and he
picked out the American’s voice and what
would be the Dutchman’s. The C.O. he
knew by shape alone, even in the moon-
light, built like a bull. The other would
be the adjutant.
“That’s the old assault course, that
stuff over there.” It was the C.O. “Out-
moded now. New stuff on the other -eide
of the camp. Personally I can’t see the
good of it. But it keeps ’em fit, I suppose,
keeps ’em nimble. They go over it once
a week and we time them. It’s surprising,
the difference each time. This moon’ll
spoil things a bit tonight, but you’ll get a
fair picture. Down across the flat, there,
you see one company laid out. Damn’
silly place to lay them out, but there it is.
I wanted you to see. There’ll be a lot of
flares. Of that company each section is
in touch with the next, so that the whole
show’s got a circle of all-round defence.
Another company will attack them, and
I’ve instructed that it’s to be like the real
thing. But you see already that it isn’t.
There’s one serious slip-up. We haven’t
been challenged, but we’ve come in sight
of their lines. There should be sentries
out. All round. For all they know we
could be the enemy.”
Sandy found that he was beginning to
tremble. There they were. The brass. He
could grab the C.O. by his ankle. He
trembled because his mind was working
fast and telling him to do things that he
hated to think of, because they only might
come off—but if they didn’t , , . He went
on listening and thinking as he moved his
rifle gently up under his body and rested
his chin on the breech. The C.O. had
turned to his two guests.
“You know when I was an adjutant in
the peace-time Army, I went out with my
boss one night to look at just such a stunt
as this. And we’d come this far without
a challenge when he said to me, ‘Horry, I
want you to go and wake those s up.
Get inside their lines and crawl up behind
whoever’s in charge of them and roar like
hell in his ear, and tell him you’re the
enemy and what’s he going to do about
it, and tell him I want to have a word
with him later. Roar like blazes,’ he said,
‘and the lazy cow’ll never forget it.’ So
I did that, gentlemen. It took me half-an-
hour, but I crawled within ten feet of
their forward men, and do you know
what? I sneaked around for ages inside
before I found the man with the pips up,
and when I yelled in his ear he went a
yard in the air Terrible shock. Did him
good, though, and every man in the out-
fit. And now I’m a C.O. and I’ve got an
adjutant of my own. I think we could
do with a repeat performance. What
about it, Nobby?”
“Good idea, sir.”
“Sure. Send him down' there.”
Sandy listened for what the Dutchman
would say, but he said nothing, and as
Sandy stared up at the man’s face he
realised that it was looking down at him.
There was a faint smile about it. Sandy
swallowed as he noticed that the fore-
sight of his rifle lay just far enough out
of the bracken to catch a tiny glint of
moonlight.
He didn’t move and neither did the
Dutchman. The adjutant had squatted
down and was taking off his boots, and
then his whitened shoulder-straps, and
belt and gaiters. He left his cap with them
and straightened up.
The C.O. spoke. “Now wait till you
get right in amongst ’em, Nobby, and then
yell like blazes. Find out who’s running
’em, and come back. There’ll be plenty
of time before the show starts and it’ll
put ’em on their toes.”
The adjutant took one step. Sandy had
not moved; but quietly, just loud
enough for the group to hear, his voice
said “Halt!”
THE adjutant stopped in his tracks.
The C.O. spun around and stared at
the bracken, but there was nothing.
Sandy’s rifle had slowly and silently come
back under his body.
“Put your hands up.”
None of them moved.
“Up with them!”
The Dutchman obeyed first and then
the others.
“Well, darn me,” said the American.
“And me!” As he said it the C.O.’s
frown melted.
They watched the bracken fall from
Sandy’s shoulders as he stood up levelling
the rifle at his hip.
“I’m taking you in. Put your hands
down. Start walking down the hill.”
The C.O. dropped his hands and stood
there and the group waited.
“Well, what do you think of that.
Nobby?”
“Down there we’ll get a closer view of
the stunt when it starts, sir. I think it
might be an idea to do what he says.”
“So do I. All in favor? Right, into
line. Carry on, captor. And listen, young
feller, whoever you are —bloody good.”
Sandy smiled and thought how the
corporal’s face would shine white as he
saw them coming. They moved down the
hill, the adjutant with his boots and
webbing under his arm picking the way,
then the C.O. and the American and
then, further back and letting them get
ahead, the Dutchman. He was just a yard
or two in front when he looked round at
Sandy’s face and grinned. And then he
pointed up at the moon and whispered
“You and I know something about her,
don’t we? She lights the way for fools
and shows them things that should be
hidden.”
He winked, and trotted back to join the
group ahead.
11.
SUN settled down through little gaps
in the leaf overhead, filling the clear-
ing with green light. A giant blue butter-
fly flicked into the space and swirled
down nearly to the mud and then spun
THE CEDARS.
The dried body of winter is hard to kill.
Frost crumbles the dead bracken, greys the old grass,
and the great hemisphere of air goes flying
barren and cold from desert or polar seas,
tattering fern and leaf. By the sunken pool
the sullen sodom-apple grips his scarlet fruit.
Spring, returner, knocker at the iron gates,
why should you return? None wish to live again.
Locked in our mourning, in our sluggish age,
we stand and think of past springs, of deceits not yet forgotten.
Then we answered you in youth and joy; we threw
open our strongholds and hung our walls with flowers.
Do not ask us to answer again as then we answered.
For it is anguish to be reborn and reborn:
at every return of the overmastering season
to shed our lives in pain, to waken into the cold,
to become naked, while with unbearable effort
we make way for the new sap that burns along old channels—
while out of our life’s substance, the inmost of our being,
form those brief flowers, those sacrifices, soon falling,
which spring the returner demands, and demands for ever.
Easier, far easier, to stand with down-turned eyes
and hands hanging; to let age and mourning cover us
with their dark rest, heavy like death, like the ground
from which we issued and towards which we crumble.
Easier to be one with the impotent body of winter,
and let our old leaves rattle on the wind’s currents:
to stand like the rung trees whose boughs no longer murmur
their foolish answers to spring; whose blossoms now are
the only lasting flowers, the creeping lichens of death.
Spring, impatient, thunderer at the doors of iron,
we have no songs left. Let our boughs be silent.
Hold back your fires that would sear us into flower, again,
and your insistent bees, the messengers of generation.
Our bodies are hardened as winter and would remain in winter.
So the old trees plead, clinging to the edge of darkness.
But round their roots the mint-bush makes its buds ready
and the snake in hiding feels the sunlight s finger.
The snake, the fang of summer, sunlight’s double meaning,
shifts his slow coils and feels his springtime hunger.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


up, higher, higher, through the vines.
Some sodden giant trees stood about;
their wood was soft, sallow. Some day
they would topple down, bringing their
orchids with them, and rot like the rest.
Birds lived there no more. Only the
butterflies and the soaking green light and
the voice of a waterfall somewhere near,
caught for a moment before it found its
way up to the sky.
Gradually the scene changed, darken-
ing. Suddenly came the roar of rain
thrashing leaves. Flecks of mud splashed
up and the fern-trees held aloft glistening
ten-inch daggers. Above the rain’s
thundering came an intermittent chop-
ping, getting louder, and then the under-
growth showed the glint of a steel
machete swinging in an arc. The blade
fell still.
“Tell ’im it’s clear up ahead, and tell
’im I’ve ’ad it. ‘Push on,’ he says, and
all ’e’s swingin’s a compass on a bit of
string.”
“All right,” said the other.
Their skin was the color of chamois
leather, stark against dirty green berets.
The two scouts parted as a third man
came along the tunnel they had cut and
squeezed between them. Three-day beard
or no, he was a frail ruffian beside the
other two.
“How does it look?” he asked.
“Seems to clear a bit all round. Looks
all right to me. Getting pretty dark, isn’t
it?”
“Yes, and we haven’t come very far,
have we? You two skirt each side and
have a look. ‘Getting dark’ my eye.”
As the two moved up around the edges
of the clearing the third man smiled to
himself, and looked around for a good
place to unroll his sleeping-bag. Later,
as the scouts came back, walking now to-
gether across the centre of the clearing,
he turned to the rest of the section lean-
ing on their rifles back along the tunnel.
“Our leads want to push on, but I’m
for camping here the night. What about
it? I’ve got two of canned heat. I’ll swap
one for a tin of beans.”
The scouts stood together watching the
section follow him out of the tunnel.
“Funny bloke. Well, you know what he
can do for mine with his canned heat.
And the lid.”
WHEN they had eventually cut their
way across the narrow neck of the
island they would return, to their base on
the other side, along a good, clear-cut
track that could almost be followed in the
dark. Many men would eventually file
along it from the base, swiftly, but the
section cutting it had done well to cover
three miles in the day. Tomorrow they
would hit the coast.
The rain thundered down. They rested
for a while before getting ready for the
night. There was the chuckle of Snowy
Peters, young Robby’s piping voice, and
the rattlings and obscenities of “Jesse”
James as he hunted for his bottle of
emerald “paint” and the guffaws as he
applied it to his tinea patch. Above the
sounds could be heard the waterfall roar-
ing louder as the rain eased-off.
The officer moved across the clearing
and stood above a young man sitting on a
pack, leaning back against a tree.
“How are you, Williams?”
“I cleaned up my atebrin issue a while
back. Feeling a bit better now.” As
Sandy looked up the officer seemed to be
moving in and out of focus. He stared
until the man stayed still.
“You want to eat all the tucker you
can. We might leave you here tomorrow
and pick you up on the way back. We’ll
get you home somehow.”
The officer left him, and Sandy sat
there nibbling at a biscuit. He watched
the others preparing for the night.
With bits of cord and old sig. wire
they were laying a fine web round the
edge of the clearing. Empty bean-tins
with their lids bent back were hooked on
to the wires, and pebbles were dropped
in them and they were left. There re-
mained a narrow path through the wire,
bent at a right angle, so that unless a man
was familiar with it he would in the dark
walk right into trouble. From inside the
wire the rest of the section watched
“Bubba” Graham rigging trip-wires here
and there far out past the fringe of the
clearing, wherever the iunsle seemed to
hold a natural path. At each stopping-
place he planted a grenade, attaching the
ring to the trip-wire, gently pulling the
pin almost out, remembering exactly
where each was placed so that i n the
morning he could gather them all in. He
stood up at last, and carefully, very care-
fully, found his wav back to the bent
gap. No man would move outside until
morning. Intelligence had stated that the
nearest Nip was thirty miles away, but
they’d been very close to him twice
already on the trip.
Sandy watched them eat their meal and
then he began to doze.
HE woke lying on his back, and looked
up at the one foggy star that stood
above the opening in the trees. He
shivered a little; that hot and cold
shiver moved about inside his muddy
back. The feeling he used to get stepping
into a hot bath on a drizzling winter’s
day. It was worse now than it had been
before. His neck was stiffening. Drops
of water fell on his face as he lay there.
He puzzled, because the patch of sky was
clearing and there was no rain. He
noticed the wet leaves of a tiny fern-tree
standing a foot or so above his face, and
that his shoulder rested against the stem
of the fern, and his shoulder was shaking.
His whole body shivered now in spasms
and then lay quiet. Gradually he began
to feel warm again, then hot. He was
sick, and rolled away on to his stomach.
It seemed to him that he dozed and yet
was wide awake, and he had no idea how
long it was before he heard the quiet
voice.
“Soldier. Soldier.”
He looked up over his rifle and saw
him, standing alone. The Dutchman.
The figure held a finger to his lips and
beckoned, and Sandy found a path to
him, a right-angled path through the
tangle of wire that seemed to be between
them. The Dutchman turned and Sandy
followed.
For a while the ground was flat and
open, but as they moved along it seemed
to narrow down into a passage fringed
with wet leaves and low hanging vines
and floored with mud. They were going
down a slope, and now ahead of them
were three grey shapes. A man with
boots and webbing tucked under his arm,
a man built like a bull, and another.
Sandy could hear somewhere about him
a steady thundering sound, getting louder
as they moved. The Dutchman turned
and pointed upwards.
“You and I know something about her,
don’t we?”
Sandy realised that the Dutchman, the
leaves about him and the ground itself
were turning white. He craned his head
back and saw the moon, monstrous in its
size, nestling almost on the tree-tops,
letting fall a current of icy air about his
face. The steady noise became louder as
they walked, and yet the Dutchman’s
voice was clear.
“I watched you, in your little burrow,
draw away. I knew then that you’d
learned your lesson, so I kept quiet.
And now you are taking us in. Four of
us. Three that you tricked and one that
pretended. It was only a game. And
the ally I had, the lady up there who
found you for me, I don’t like her very
much. She’s a turncoat. Tonight she
showed you to me, but tomorrow night
she might show me to someone else, and
he mightn’t be playing a game. No, I
don’t like her either. No one can pay
her enough to keep her his own. So I
try to keep out of her way, like you will
do now.”
He winked at Sandy and trotted on to
the group ahead.
"FHEN there was nothing. The dark-
' ness fell back in front of him and
Sandy stopped for a moment and groped
his way. In the night he felt the
ground quivering under his feet, and the
thundering noise was all about him. A
damp mist settled on his face. He
trembled and shut his eyes, sensing first,
and then hearing, the voice that became
part of the thundering.
“Where are they? You were bringing
them to me. You’ve lost them, haven’t
you?”
He remembered the voice. The
corporal who had made him dig the earth
with a bayonet. He kept his eyes tight
shut.
“Even lost your friend the Dutchman.
Lost them all. Because you are sick.
You might die, you know; and you
wouldn t be the first to die from it.
Dreaming, yet awake. It won’t be long.
Already you see things that are not there.
But vyhat you hear is true. Listen. It
can kill you, this sickness, and yet there
is a way for you. You have a charm.'
The voice rose into a laugh.
, “Find it and no sickness will kill you.
I ve hidden it where only you might find
st. Your rifle ... in your rifle ... a
charm.”
Sandy tightened his hands about the
rifle and waited, but the voice had gone.
And his own voice, when it came, seemed
strange to him, distant, as if it wasn’t
his at ali.
I am sick. Sick. Might die, and if
you go, you go for good. All right, then.
Lind it. Where’ll we find it? Find it
sitting down. Find it in the rifle. Sitting
down. Now where would he put a thing
like that? ‘ln.’ That’s where he put it.
Said so. So we’ll have a squint down
the barrel and see what we see. Dark.
We’ll give it a bit of light, eh? Where’s
the switch? There’s the switch. We’ll
puh the old switch and give it a bit of
light.”
He sat with his heels together and his
knees drawn up, clamping the barrel of
the rifle between them. His trembling
left hand held the muzzle gleaming dull
close to his face, his right hand felt to-
wards the trigger-guard.
And then his head slowly fell back.
He smelt earth. His whole body shud-
dered spasmodically and lay still.
“\X/HO is it?”
“Williams.”
“What the hell’s he doing out here?
Who found him?”
“Tommo.” When he came down for
water. He’s sick all right. Feel his fore-
head. But he’s not as sick as he nearly
was. Did you see what he’s got round
his foot? The pin was jammed. I
fixed it.”
The officer bent down and saw the wire
and followed it three yards back around
a little bush, and his jaw dropped,
“Graham! ”he yelled. “Have you lost
anything?”
“There’s one missing.”
“It’s down here. Near the waterfall.
It’s been fixed.”
Sandy stirred. They crowded around
him, and in a little while his eyes opened
and he looked up at the group of faces.
“Some of you lift him and bring him
back to the clearing. Bring his rifle.”
The officer walked beside them.
“Quite a stroll you had, Williams.
Lucky, too. You were wearing this
arbund your ankle.”
He tossed the grenade up and down
in his hand as he walked.
“How do you feel?”
“Not too good.”
“That’s how you look. Now, we
should hit the coast by midday and then
we’re coming straight back. You’ll stay
here. I’ll leave someone with you. No
sense in you walking all over the shop
with that thing crawling on you. I’ve
seen a man go off his head through that.”
He looked quickly at Sandy.
“I think I was a bit troppo last night.
Skipper,” Sandy said, “I’m clear now.”
“That’s what I thought,” said the
officer. “Fine section. They put up a
few yards of wire and all go to sleep. I
know they’re tired ; but when a man can
get up and stumble round outside, and
they don’t even hear him, well that’s past
a joke. Fine section. One morning we’ll
all wake up with our throats cut.”
| N a little while the section moved on,
1 the machetes flogging the wet
branches. Soon they were gone. Two
men remained in the clearing, Sandy
lying on the bunk they’d made for him,
the other sitting near by, scribbling in a
dirty notebook with a pencil stub.
Sandy drew thoughtfully on his smoke.
“Ben,” he said. “My rifle over there
near you. Would you open it up and see
what’s inside it?”
The other looked up. He stared at
Sandy for a moment and then picked up
the rifle.
“You feel a bit queer still?”
“No. I’m all right now. Just last
night. Open it up and see what’s inside."
There was a click as the bolt snapped
back and a live round flicked out on to
the mud.
“Well?”
Sandy lay back again and closed his
eyes.
“It’s all right, Ben. That’s what 1
thought might have been there. You
couldn’t understand, Ben. But I’ll bet
—l’ll bet when you and I meet the Devil
he’s wearing two stripes.”
VARIOUS VERSE
PADDOCK NAMES.
Here Flynn and Dunn and Burton
Had cocks that talked at dawn
Above the myriad heads of trees
To wake each sleeping man:
Then axe-strokes spoke a lonely word
And brought the forests down.
Flynn split and pared the timber
And fenced his niggard farm;
Dunn lost his sons to cities, lost
The meaning of a name;
And Burton blew in calloused hands
To keep his pockets warm.
Now Flynn and Dunn and Burton
Lie full-length like the trees;
And hoggets nibble at the hearth
And mount the stone chimneys
Of men who dreamed before the fire
Of grazing-lands like these.
A.'C.T,
DAVID CAMPBELL.
THE WHIP-BIRD.
A whip’s crack wakes me. I feel the
bed
of banksia branches I broke and spread
down when 1 came here. Now it is light
and the cave mouth’s oval frames the
white
sea and the gully of Curracarang
where the wind, that all night howled
and sang,
travels the tea-tree scrub and comes
silvering the banksias and sapling gums.
All night I have slept here and the cave
has sheltered and kept me warm from
the rave
of rain and the wind that howled ag it
tore
at the break of branches: You shall be
poor;
you shall lose faith, be desolate,
follow a star, that star curse your fate.
You shall lie down and with last breath
pray not to waken from that death.
From this despair, the wind cried in
scorn,
shall your fierce exultation be born.
This I remember the wind howled and
sang
to me through this gully of Curraca-
rang ’
now that the whip-bird with trailing
tongue
uncurls the shattering lash of his thong.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.
FOG AT NIGHT.
Rocked gently in a swell of fog,
Each light a phosphorescent ball
Afloat midstream, the street is plunged
Far in the glaucous depths of this
night’s sea.
Dark shapes of buildings quiver, wave
And glimmer in the murk beyond
The filtered light; strange coral caves
Of loneliness within a dour green sea.
Lost in these nightmare depths, I trace
Nothing of life, but live the dream
Of that Atlantis suddenly
Sea-filched and silenced, undisclosed to
man.
Glumly a bell strikes solitude,
The tangent strokes engulfed by time
Lest they should bruit the silent theft
By this strange sea of city known to
man.
N.S.W.
ERIC IRVIN.
THE YELLOW BUTTERFLY.
The yellow butterny,
O yellow butterfly.
Has danced itself out of the sky
And danced itself down on top
Of the eddy so bright in the rocks.
0 never again to be seen
Where the river-grass grows green,
Like a flying buttercup:
Dark, dark the trout rose up.
1 stare at the ripple and sigh
And look in my little box
In eddies of feathers and hooks
For a yellow butterfly.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
MRS. PARNABY.
Mrs. Parnaby’s rather like a weekend
ad.,
she overflows with good things; is never
sad
but laughs quiet smiles with false-teeth
white
and friendly; overflows her clothes,
never quite
girding her bouncing bosom. She
shakes
all over when she laughs, suggesting
earthquakes
in, the way her loose bulk quivers.
Sometimes
when she really laughs—her mirthless
mimes
of laughter tears are in her eyes like
dew
on drought-fed flowers. And she is
lovely too.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.
THE GREEN WAVE.
The green wave tCood upon the rock,
And the dark rock raised the green to
white,
And the white arched like the neck of
a snake
And struck, and all the world was
white.
The green wave stood upon the sand,
And the sand held up a thousand bells,
And each bell broke like an opening
hand
And sang, and the whole world
showered bells.
The green wave stood upon my brow,
And soul went out to venture sleep,
And waves . . . waves . . . fell wails of
snow
And roared, and all the world was
sleep.
N.S.W.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. HI A-.*Ml *. Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman, Alfred S, White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing- Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone; B.W. 8361. 129 Pitt Street. Sydney
Branches in All Slates,
HOTEL METHDPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY RATES:
Single Rooms—
From !>/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 18/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METRO POLE
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
m in
pill!
|flli« 111 If'IIIH
«;H | nis in mu" 1
M SII 'M .im.
|2j£ v > —““***■
THE TRUE
CREATORS OF
PROGRESS
lii the world in which we live we
see that the creators of progress are
extraordinarily few in comparison
with the population.
The discoverers and inventors
are the prime creators of progress.
In the last century or so they have
given us the dynamo, petroleum
and its by-products, jhe motor car
and truck, the aeroplane, the bull-
dozer, moving pictures, radio,
television, etc.
In the wake of the discoverers
and inventors have come others
with rare talent for organisation;
then those who have saved to pro-
vide the capital without which even
the most brilliant discovery could
not be developed for the benefit of
mankind.
These three groups were, and
are, the true creators of today’s
world.
This Bank’s duty lies in service
to all three groups, and to the wide
community that the three groups
serve.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
Nu-metal
saves
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 0, 8 cylinders, 10/6. 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque-—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 11/10/’5O
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY,
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
117 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250
_
tvi**'* 6
Sores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment. Stops Itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti-
septic , Cuticura cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio—
Cuticura Ointment. • Soap
and Talcum I’owder.
1MM
jo* ALL-BRITISH
IOHWCUI
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
d
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd. #
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
■CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
■‘PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
‘WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
oer lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s eood.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
CUARD?
Ca*k/
PROTECTA
€urtl-Sdi RtyUkJilng
Tlil
fdfds
Suitable lor every type of business II
all Sales. Credits Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
’ACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
’)istrtouting Agentr—
sYDNEY * W.
vfELBOITRNE .
ADELAIDE
UCETU
C. Penfold St Co, Pty. Ltd.
Norman Bros. PIJ. Ltd.
Vardon St Son* Ltd*
Docket Book Co. iAus tJ
DARK RIVER
By ROLAND E. ROBINSON
AFTER walking through the
mountains the man and
the girl had camped on
the edge of the lake
under the tall gums. The cold
white and purple irises were out
then, blowing under the trees in
the winds that swept down the
lake. In the forest the saplings
hung down their blood-red
leaves against the green depth.
There were wallabies and
badgers there, and the couple
often stopped and stood still to
watch a porcupine rooting
among the leaves.
A grey stony road led down
from the lake, and a dark
swiftly-flowing river shot out
suddenly from the thick trees
and swept along noiselessly be-
side the road. This river ran
out of the lake and, as suddenly
as it met and followed the road,
it swooped away again into the
trees. Farther down a button-
grass plain, russet and golden-
green in the sunlight, opened out
through the trees, and there, not
far back from the road, were the
shack and two or three out-
houses where the Flaxman
family lived.
Built and roofed with split
lengths of King William pine,
the shack was left unpainted,
withstanding the weather. A
palisade-fence ran round it, and
there was a small vegetable-
garden at the back.
Going past, the man and the
girl often waved to the three
children, two fair-haired girls
of about eight and nine and a
younger boy. Once, as they
went past, the two girls were
waiting for them with some
flowers they had gathered. It
was Frances who got to know
Mrs. Flaxman, and the two
women were friends at once.
ABOUT a mile away on the
main road was a hotel and
depot of the bus service. Once,
when Lawrence had called down
for the mail, he was given a
parcel to drop into the Flax-
mans’. As he came down the
path to the shack Mrs. Flaxman
was cooking over a stove that
was set under a lopped, thick-
leafed gum-tree. She had taken
a saucepan off the stove, and
stood holding the hot handle in
a fold of her skirt, and was
pushing back her dark hair as
she saw him.
“Well, I thought you were
always just going to wave to
us,” she said. “Won’t you come
in and sit down for a while?”
Lawrence stooped into the
little closed-in veranda and went
into the living-room. The shack
was very comfortable inside,
with furniture that her husband
had made from packing-cases
and rough timber and had
covered with floral materials.
Floral curtains were drawn back
from the window, and he
glimpsed the bedroom in deep
shadow with a bright cover over
the bed.
The children were quiet and
shy, never taking their eyes off
Lawrence. Mrs. Flaxman sat
near the window, and as she was
talking Lawrence suddenly saw
what a slight, dark beauty she
had. She was quiet and yet
vital, with a wildness in her that
her husband and three children
had not quietened. She seemed
to hold some secret joy in her-
self. She sat there with her
dark quiet beauty that spoke of
this assurance. It looked out of
her face ; it was in her attitude
and talk and her very quietness.
She was like a woman who has
a lover. .
The children had their school
lessons by correspondence, and
already they knew more than
their mother. Mrs. Flaxman got
out their books and they climbed
on to the chairs and table, spel-
ling out their lessons and asking
their mother questions she could
not answer.
“Oh, this schooling’s a prob-
lem to me,” she said.
“May I see their books?”
Lawrence asked. Soon the
children were climbing on the
back of his chair and then
straddling his knees in delight as
he tried to make them read their
lessons.
The children brought out
some school magazines in which
some of their compositions and
verses had been printed.
Lawrence thought some of the
verses were very good, and re-
marked on them to Mrs. Flax-
man.
“Ah, yes,” she laughed. “Stan
likes helping them with their
schooling, and he gives them a
hand out with their poetry when
they get stuck.”
j AWRENCE had taken on a
1—« job of clearing a few acres
of land near the lake where a
ranger’s cottage was to be built.
A dark, compactly-made man
from the hotel came up to work
on this job, too. This was Jim,
a good bush-worker and an
axeman. He put level scarfs
into the trees. He would cut
three trees in line half through
and then fell a fourth on to
them, bringing them all snapping
and crashing down. He worked
easily and constantly, felling and
cutting up nearly twice as much
timber as Lawrence. Rain often
came over the lake as they
worked, and then they took
shelter against the trunks of a
couple of trees. Jim did not
talk much, and would put his
coat round his shoulders and
lean against the tree and smoke,
looking out into the rain. At
the end of the day the contrac-
tor would come and drive him
back to the hotel in his car.
When Lawrence and Frances
left the lake they were per-
suaded by the Flaxmans to stay
a day or two with them. One
afternoon Lawrence had gone
across the plain with the
children, who were taking two
pet goslings for a swim in a tarn.
The clumps of button-grass were
high and knobbed, and the plain
was a russet color in the sun.
The children were splashing and
shouting in the tarn, trying to
head the swimming goslings off.
Of the two girls the elder was
the more quiet and inclined to
be serious. She had her mother’s
good looks, but her features
were purer. Lawrence was ex-
plaining some game to the
children. The two younger ones
were listening and eager for the
time to begin. Lawrence pre-
tended not to notice, but the
elder girl sat looking over the
plain, rapt away in some grave
mood of her nature. Her sister
had her mother’s nature: more
wilful and outspoken, taking the
pleasures of the moment. The
youngest child, the boy, was like
neither of them in character and
looks. He was sturdy; they
were slender ; he still followed
his sisters’ lead.
Lawrence happened to look
across towards the shack. A
man was walking through the
high grass away from the shack.
He was dark and closely set, and
Lawrence recognised him as Jim
from the hotel.
When Lawrence and the
children returned the two women
were laughing and talking over
some matter intimate to them-
selves. Lawrence sat down in
one of the home-made armchairs
and the children brought their
books and pestered him with
questions and asked him to read
to them.
ONE of the children came tc
say that their dad was com-
ing. They all went to the back
veranda and looked out across
the plain. At first Lawrence
could not see him, although the
children were pointing to where
he was coming. Then Lawrence
saw him as he came out of the
(Continued on page 32.)


YOU’RE IN
OOWC KONG
in less than 2 days by
at a
Now you can fly—for business or
pleasure— to the heart of the Orient-
colourful, fascinating Hong Kong
—in less than 48 hours
from Sydney via Darwin,
Labuan (North Borneo).
Regular services by Q.E.A.
Skymasters—with appetising hot
meals served in flight and
first class steward service.
Enquire about special
air-sea interchange tours.
Consult your local
travel agent.
r
*
v
■
cl?
'i
\
'Cn
i f :
V
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
AUSTRALIA’S INTERNATIONAL AIRLINE
in association with British Overseas Airways Corporation
<?CBA
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ALLEN LAW (also
known as DWYER) .—TAKE NOTICE that
JOAN ELIZABETH LAW (also known
as Dwyer) has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 533 of 1950 on the grounds
of your desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
AND is asking the Court to exercise its
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a)
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the sth
December 1950 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from
CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 164
Phillip Street, Sydney. —J. DOUGHAN,
The 1950
Vickers
Cocktail Booh
brings you ,..
m
exciting
new
cocktail
recipes
Cocktail mixing is fan.
With the new FREE
1950 Vickers Cocktail
Book you can’t make
a mistake in mixing
appetising dry, sweet
or medium cocktails
and refreshing, long
drinks.
Prominent among the
recipes is "The Double
Century”, a NEW
cocktail which cele-
brates our 200 years
of tradition.
FOR YOUR FREE COPY of the
NEW, 1950 Vickers Gin Cocktail
Book, write to The United Distillers
Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 75 9G, Eliza-
beth St., Melbourne. It will be
mailed promptly, post free.
Wickers
¥ GIN
• • • 3 people in 5 choose Vickers.
The greatest name in Gin
from Australia’s greatest distillery.
200
YEARS
OF
TRADITION
1750-1950
VG33/I6
Just Words
Seated at a table in a simple
black dress with a white collar,
Elisabeth Bergner read from one
large volume propped up on
another under a stand-lamp
Arthur Schnitzler’s “Fraulein
Else,” and so completely held
the attention of a large house at
the Princess, Melbourne, for
one hour 15 minutes that if any-
body had coughed it would have
sounded like a bomb exploding.
Schnitzler’s theme is the
adolescent girl whose father has
embezzled 80,000 thalers and
who has been importuned to
ask a certain baron for the
money. The baron makes the
stipulation that she shall show
herself naked to him in a wood
for 15 minutes, and her half-
hysterical musing occupies
three-quarters of the reading. She
finally decides to make her ex-
hibition at a dinner-party and
then take poison. Her slow de-
mise occupies at least 10
minutes.
Miss Bergner is a lovely
woman, and has a lovely voice
with a German accent which is
extraordinarily expressive. She
used it in such a way as to fill
the stage with figures. You
could even see the baron and
feel his conflict, as well as the
conflict of the fraulein. Her
bedroom, the woods and the
dinner-party were all there and
at absolutely no expense to the
management in actors’ salaries
or scene-painters’ wages.
Miss Bergner then proceeded
to use the spoken word to con-
jure up the Almighty busy at his
work of creation, the Garden of
Eden, our first parents and the
Serpent, the angel with the
sword which flamed in all direc-
tions, Moses, Jesus and the
Prodigal Son and his father in
a concordance from the Bible,
and they all lived as much as
Fraulein Else. Her final effort
was the trial scene from “St.
Joan,” in which she was beauti-
fully assisted by Anew Mc-
Master sitting in a chair beside
her. The court was there, the
Inquisitor, the executioner with
his axe and his weapons of tor-
ture, and in the background the
fire crackled, and, what was
more, so did the wonderful argu-
ments Shaw uses.
It was an impressive demon-
stration of the inferiority to the
word of the theatre with all its
absurd properties and strange de-
vices. It also made one wonder
why Miss Bergner came out to
do “The Two Mrs. Carrolls.”
Victorian Artists'
Society.
The Victorian Artists’ Society,
which for many years seemed
to have got itself bogged down
in a swamp of its own making,
shows considerable improve-
ment in its spring exhibition.
On the east wall the modernists
are still busy taking in each
other’s washing, but there are
signs of a growing subtlety and
bits of observation scattered
here and there among the rest
of the collection which would
be more obvious if the commit-
tee wasn’t so catholic in its selec-
tion. Still, it is probably safer
to let in the baddies with the
goodies—if the committee be-
came too concerned with “stan-
dards” the standards mightn’t
always be the right ones.
Standing out among things
that have been well observed
and coolly put down are Lesley
Sinclair’s still-life, “Bottles,”
and there is more subtlety in her
small “Exhibition Gardens”
than in the broad acres of other
landscapes. Although a bit
painty, Valerie O’Neil’s “Winter
Sunshine, St. Kilda Road,” is
well felt and atmospheric. There
are the sharpness and dryness of
the inland in W. E. Millane’s
“Chewings Range, Alice
Springs,” and Roma Ward’s
“Gateway, Olangolah,” is airy.
Desmond Norman’s “Potato
Country” looks like an attempt
at the manner of some Old
Master; the manner is there but
not the observation, and the
effect is dingy. June Stephen-
son’s “Mild Day in Winter” and
Henri Edelstein’s “By Lamp-
light” are lively sketches, and
Ivan Beda’s “Road in Country,”
though too low in tone, has
quality about it. In “Evening”
Max Casey has a nice sketch,
and W. F. Stapleton has dealt
faithfully with his subject in
“Old Whisky Bottle.” Reg D.
Simpson’s “Templestowe Land-
scape” looks as if an atomic
bomb had hit.
Mural studies by Frank Nan-
ninga, a Dutch illustrator and
designer born in Sumatra and
now living in Sydney, are show-
ing at David Jones’s Gallery.
They seem to stem from two in-
fluences, Disney and Chinese
art. The Disney items, humorous
pictures of Oriental children
chasing butterflies, or people
with Oriental whiskers whizzing
nowhere in particular in chariots,
are too slick and obvious to
command much interest, though
they might do for the nursery,
or, better, for illustrations to a
book for very young children ;
but the studies under Chinese
influence, one of fieldmice and
feathers and several of fish,
have an airy or watery grace
which could be transferred very
pleasantly either to the walls of
a restaurant or the tiles of the
bathroom.
* * * *
Wesley Penberthy is another
of the younger painters who has
been delving into the techniques
of the Old Masters, and judg-
ing by the results hanging at
Princes Gallery, Melbourne, his
industry has been largely wasted.
A more or less casual acquaint-
ance with the use of the glazes
and other pigmental devices,
which were second nature to
men like Titian and Rembrandt,
won’t give an artist the quality
that those great painters got
into their pictures. What dis-
tinguishes their work from that
of the lesser men of their own
epoch is not their technique —in
that respect they were all
actually on an equal footing—
but the quality of their observa-
tion. Mr. Penberthy’s observa-
tion isn’t yet of that quality,
though there is no reason why
it could not become so if he
went the right way about it. His
pottery decorated with the heads
of Trojan horses is much better
than his more pretentious efforts,
and his plaques and ash-trays
are very pleasant.
* * * *
A nude arrests the attention
at Charles Wheeler’s latest ex-
hibition at the Athenaeum, Mel-
bourne. Like the Rokeby
Venus, she presents her back
to the spectator, and it is a
shapely back, as worthy to be
painted as that of Velasquez’s
model. It is a highly polished
back, and it arrests the attention,
not because it glows like flesh,
but because it gleams like
marble. There is the same in-
congruity running through the
artist’s landscapes. His burbling
streams and blue-and-purple
ranges and his glaciers—he has
been painting in New Zealand —
suggest something other than
themselves, like the polished
periods of a rhetorical politician.
Benjamin Concerto.
It isn’t often that Melbourne
audiences have the opportunity
of hearing an Australian com-
poser playing the solo part m his
own concerto. It happen’d at
the latest of the Victorian Sym-
phony Orchestra’s concerts at
the Town Hall under the Goos-
sens baton, with Arthur Ben-
jamin’s concerto quasi una fan-
tastia for piano and orchestra
in one tremendous movement.
A programme note, which
calls it often rhetorical and flam-
boyant and a return to the
fashion of the 19th century,
where the soloist is as much
master of the situation as in
any concerto of the Liszt school,
best described it, though there
were times when the orchestra
in the noisy initial section were
more than masters —in fact,
they were tyrannisers. There
were sundry tricks about it
which found expression in that
part of the orchestra which
could be described as the
kitchen section —crashes from
the cymbals and loud bangs
from the drums and coughs
from the brasses —which put the
opus more in the class of the
rhapsody than the concerto,
though it became more subtle
later.
There was all the difference in
the world between Benjamin’s
concerto and the “Daphnis and
Chloe” of Ravel written for a
Diaghaleff ballet. One could
feel the changes of mood in the
six or seven characters repre-
sented, and could see the figures
dancing through the Greek pas-
toral landscape conjured up by
the music.
An exotic item was the
“Ostinato” of Larssen, the
Swedish composer, with its rich
melody in the bass given a deep
orchestral background. Papa
Haydn’s “La Reine” Symphony
was the most delightful experi-
ence of the evening* It got
businesslike direction from Mr.
Goossens’s baton.
The audience gave Arthur
Benjamin a good reception. He
looks as robust as his music.
■■lolanthe."
It’s a dull, earth - bound
Arcady the Gilsullivanists pic-
ture for their Sydney audiences
in “lolanthe.” Whithersoever
the fairies trip they’re too well
drilled, too little ethereal. They
have lost all zest for life or love.
Young Strephon is as bloodless
as a Dresden China jug, and the
stress with Phyllis’s simple
charms is on their drab sim-
plicity. Poor, plodding creatures
all. The Fairy Queen, it seems,
has waved a wicked, stultifying
wand. Even the orchestra is
lifeless and bewitched, con-
demned to push and blow a
weary way from curtain-rise to
curtain-fall.
Only the stalwarts of the
House of Lords revolt against
the deathlike blight. John Dean
and Leslie Rands, as Tolloller
and Mountararat, lead a strong,
brave chorus. Their trumpet
blast to the lower middle-classes
is a real command. Even the
fairies are almost jolted out of
their hypnotic dreamings.
Chancellor Ivan Menzies, too,
strives valiantly; the capering
carried a little far, perhaps, but,
then, it’s a desperate occasion
and calling for desperate mea-
sures—the show seems almost
likely to expire of inanition until
the lords appear.
Gilbert did write for his fairies
“We must dance and we must
sing,” but he meant it to be re-
ceived as an exhortation to joy-
ousness rather than as a harsh
sentence.


Tests continue to prove that
here is an exceptional tractor
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
m&x
NUFFIELD UNIVERSAL M 4
with pneumatic tyres (14x30 rear, 7.50x18
front) trailing “Shearer" 12 twin disc plough
at 3J m.p.h. during Field Day at Hawhesbury
Agricultural College (N.S.W.). Width of cut
6ft., furrows bin. deep, bin, wide. Plough is
equipped with pneumatic tyres, size 600x16
{ near-side and off -back) ; 7.50x18 {off-front).
NUFFIELD
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
PRACTICAL: Operates all widely used trailed and
fixed implements. Readily convertible from 4-wheel
to 3-wheel (and vice versa) on the farm.
POWERFUL: 6-way power, from 38 H.P. engine and
new hydraulic power unit, for all needs in and around
the farm.
RELIABLE: Proved under all kinds of operational
conditions throughout Australia . . . the tractor built
and backed by a name you can trustl
FULL DETAILS AND SPECIFICATIONS
AVAILABLE FROM STATE DISTRIBUTORS
NUFFIELD UNIVERSAL M 3
at Hawkesbury College Field Day,
pulling double-arm rabbit rippftr
ripping depth of 24in. Note
retractible strakes on wheels lor
extra traction. (Optional equipment.)
m
mm
N.S.W.: PETER LLOYD LTD., 213-217 Elizabeth Street.
SYDNEY. 'Phone MA 7745. VICTORIA AND SOUTHERN
RIVERINA: KELLOW FALKINER PTY. LTD., 206-218 Russell
Street, MELBOURNE, C.l. 'Phone JM 1555. QUEENSLAND
AND N.S.W. NORTHERN RIVERS: FLINDERS MOTORS PTY. LTD., Evers Building, 457 Adelaide Street.
BRISBANE. Phone B 2420 And at I Railway Street. TOOWOOMBA. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: KINGSWAY
H*}‘Phone Central 6870. WESTERN AUSTRALIA!
LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD., 926-928 Hay Street, PERTH (Temporary premises). TASMANIA:
METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD., 36-38 Argyle Street. HOBART. ’Phone 4061.
EBi
NUFFIELD
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD-. VICTORIA PARK. ZETLAND, NEW SOUTH WALES
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—IN »ivokce.
TO GEOFFREY LAWRENCE ROBERT
JOHN CALLAGHAN late of 56 Womerah
Avenue Darlinghurst.—TAKE NOTICE
that MOLLY MAY CALLAGHAN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3546 of 1900
on the ground that you have within five
years undergone frequent convictions for
crime and been sentenced in the aggregate
to imprisonment for three years and up-
wards and left her wholly without the
means of support and also that you during
one year prior to the institution of this
shit habitually assaulted and cruelly beat
her and she is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
19th day of December 1950 and obtain a
dopy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. HUNT & HUNT, Solicitors, 15
Bligh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
THE
‘“WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
• Company Accounts
• Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
A
Q
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
fl FINE HOTEL
A Hotel, certainly one of Sydney «
leading Hotels, Hut different to
every otHer in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance. Has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
bustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
Ltt
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
THE MAN
Over the Border.
“Ek Dum”; On October 6
General Mac Arthur celebrated
the end of the first phase of the
Korean war with a statement to
a British correspondent in which
he said that the campaign was
one of the world’s decisive
battles which gave the nations
another chance to control their
destiny.
He said that the 150,000
troops which the North Koreans
still had under arms above the
38 th Parallel were “doomed
beyond hope,” and that he did
not think that Russia or China
would intervene. If they had
intended to do so they would
have acted before now, in which
case their action would have
been decisive and the American
forces would have gone into
the sea. Now, however, especi-
ally in view of the Allied air
strength “we are now no longer
in a position where we can be
hit by them.”
He was reported as saying
that when the North Koreans
began their campaign they had
200,000 men, many of whom
had fought or had been trained
with the Chinese Communist
armies—first-rate troops, newly-
equipped and advised by Soviet
staff officers. Of these he esti-
mated that 190,000 were de-
stroyed, having failed through
various blunders—overestima-
tion of U.S. and South Korean
power to resist in the beginning,
the only thing which prevented
them from sending a column of
tanks and troops straight to
Pusan, waste of time in ferrying
heavy artillery and too thin a
deployment round the defence-
box. All these factors gave the
American command time to
organise and build up its forces.
Into North Korea
On the day following the in-
terview, American, British and
Australian troops which had
been moving northward to
assembly-points began to follow
the South Koreans into North
Korea.
Xhese latter troops had been
moving up the east of the penin-
sula, and by the weekend were
almost in the same latitude as
Pyongyang, the North Korean
capital. They were battling for
Wonsan on Sunday while three
other South Korean divisions
had crossed the border on the
Central Peninsula road. With
these the eastern force is to link
up after fanning out. Their
operations are apparently de-
signed in general to cut the com-
munications with the north of
main North Korean forces,
which are concentrating in the
west to defend the capital and
the sources of armament. The
South Koreans are aiming for
the railway which runs across
the peninsula from the capital to
join the main railway to Rashin
and Vladivostok.
The Communists obviously
cannot maintain any widespread
defence. Concentration is their
only hope, and they are clearly
planning to try to hold their
Manchurian road-and-rail con-
nection through Antung and
also to establish their centre of
resistance as near as possible to
Dairen and other Russo-Chinese
ports. The role of the North
Koreans and General Mac-
Arthur’s forces is being reversed.
Now it is the North Koreans
who are to be called upon to
maintain a “defence-box,” and it
remains to be seen whether help
will be as readily available to
them as it was to the Americans.
Forward First Cavalry
On October 7, General Mac-
Arthur made his first definite
“This is the A.B.C. Here is the news . . . .”
move towards crossing the 38th
Parallel with his seven U.S. divi-
sions and one British-Australian
brigade, the Australians having
seen their first skirmish —without
casualties, though they had
earlier lost a couple through
mines—while moving northward
in convoy behind the British
regiments. The invasion forces
used the First U.S. Cavalry
(which is really mechanised in-
fantry) to establish a bridgehead
across the Imjin River, which is
the natural defence-line of the
border. The river is some miles
inside South Korea. The cross-
ing was made without incident.
Kaesong, a couple of miles from
North Korean territory, was
captured and patrols went on to
cross the 38th Parallel, while
U.S. divisions moved up to
invasion positions and units in
the south dealt with the stream
of p.-0.-w., who now total over
50,000, and mopped up the
pockets which still contain
11,000 of the enemy.
North Korean Radio reported
an American landing on the east
coast near Changjon, 50 miles
from the border, on October 5,
after a failure on the previous
day, though nothing was said
about the operation at U.S. head-
quarters, which, however, was
declared to be preparing for two
landings, one on the east and
one on the west to the north of
Pyongyang, in order to contain
the North Koreans and put them
in a pressure-sandwich.
U.N.O. in the Rear
As usual, U.N.O. came pot-
tering along in the rear of the
war to give orders for actions
already in progress on American
initiative. Though Allied troops
were miles into North Korea,
the gathering held a solemn de-
bate and authorised plans to
stabilise Korea as a unified
nation “independent, demo-
cratic, sovereign”—with the
nations of the world paying for
its economic rehabilitation.
It goes without saying that a
U.N.O. commission will imple-
ment these plans and arrange
the holding of elections to pro-
vide the unified “sovereign gov-
ernment.”
The scheme was carried in
the Assembly by 47 votes to
five, which was not representa-
tive of the opinion of the whole
of those present at the debate,
since India, Egypt, Syria, Saudi
Arabia, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
newly-admitted Indonesia and
Lebanon scrambled out of the
way to avoid voting.
Nobody laughed at the in-
clusion of Australia (whose Gov-
ernment at present is finding it
difficult to govern because the
emissaries of those who armed
the North Koreans have the
“Labor” majority in the Senate
by the short hairs), the Philip-
pines, riddled with rebellion.
Thailand, Pakistan, Chile,
Holland and Turkey as the
members of the “stabilising”
commission. Holland and
Turkey are about the only two
which do not need a commission
to stabilise themselves.
The Soviet-bloc nations voted
as one man, the spearhead of
the attack being Baranovsky,
the representative of the Ukraine,
which is about as independent
of the U.S.S.R. as a toenail is
of a toe. He accused the
Americans and South Koreans
of conspiring to drive right
through to Harbin in order to
take Manchuria and give it to
the Japanese,
American Commanders
The commanders of the
Inchon landing under General
MacArthur’s overall supervision
were Major-General Edward M.
Almond, his chief-of-staff, who
took over command of the X
Corps, and Major - General
Oliver Smith, commander of the
First Marine Division. Rear-
Admiral J. H. Doyle, U.S.N.,
commanded the amphibious
operations, and Vice-Admiral
Struble, who commands the
U.S. Seventh Fleet, and Lieu-
tenant-General Shepherd, G.O.C,
Marines in the Pacific, watched


More Comfort, More Reasure
when you fly the Pacific
QtmAxoM Oaciftc Jta£§
%
To UNITED STATES • CANADA
and UNITED KINGDOM
As you head skywards you immediately feel the extra comfort and
roominess of your “Empress of the Air”. Push button control
operates your “Loungaire” reclining chair, your individual fresh
air vent . . . and your reading lamp. Relax right out and test
your “Loungaire”—even if you’re tall there’s ample room. With
Canadian Pacific you fly by day then enjoy the luxury of
staying ashore at night both at Fiji and Honolulu. This way,
there’s more pleasure ashore and more comfort aloft.
Spend 24 or 36 Hours at famous
Ml
r )?to6to€®,
HOTEL
RIGHT ON WAIKIKI BEACH
♦Exclusive with Canadian Pacific is your slop-over at Fiji; and your stay in
Honolulu with meals and accommodation included in the standard fare.
f
dsf
dsf
ALOHA! A cordial welcome awaits you
at the famous MOANA Hotel where you
stay for a day as Canadian Pacific’s guest.
Ample time to 101 l on Waikiki Beach drive
around scenic Oahu Island swim or ride
the surf boards. Dance outdoors under the
stars at night on the famous Banyan Court.
NO DOLLARS REQUIRED,
Through fare in Australian Currency. IS dollars
(U.S.) provided at Vancouver, Montreal or New
York for through passengers to or from United
Kingdom.
For further details apply Canadian Pacific Railway Company, or Union
Steam Ship Co. (General Agents), 247 Oeorge Street, Sydney, and
69 William Street, Melbourne, or any authorised Tourist Agency,
CaMaiicM Oad&c
AIRLINES V
"THE WINGS OF THE WORLD’S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM"
Canadian Pacific Air Lines Limited Incorporated in Canada
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO the next-of-kin (on her mother’s side)
of SOPHIE MARIANNE PRICE, whose
mother, Margaret Adams, was born at
Edinburgh about 1840, and all persons
claiming through or under any such
maternal next-of-kin. —PURSUANT to an
Order made by the Supreme Court of
New Zealand, you are required to send in
your claim to share in the estate of
Sophie Marianne Price, late of Wellington,
New Zealand, Spinster, so as to be re-
ceived by the undersigned by the day
of January, 1951, failing which such
estate will be distributed disregarding
your claim. —THE SOLICITOR, Public
Trust Office, Wellington, New Zealand.
DANIEL COLLINS, TIMARU, NEW
ZEALAND.
WILL DANIEL COLLINS, formerly of
Timaru, New Zealand, but who left
Alford Forest, Ashburton, in 1929, to go
to Australia, or anyone knowing his
whereabouts, please communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Timaru,
New Zealand?
JACK LOCKINGTON (full name JOHN
BOWEN LOCKINGTON), formerly of 17
Norton Street, Sydney, son of Teresa and
late Fred Lockington, of Melbourne, OR
ANY PERSON KNOWING HIS WHERE-
ABOUTS, please communicate with
GORDON RENNICK, Solicitor, 339 Ool-
lins Street, Melbourne?
OBRETENOFF. —Anyone knowing the
whereabouts of next-of-kin of DRAGON
OBRETENOFF, born in Bulgaria, and
resided in Sydney prior to 1929, are
asked to communicate with T. J.
PURCELL, Solicitor, of 66 King Street,
Sydney.
FONDE
*
EN 1724
BMI4
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
1 8
m
.
See this Engineering
Victory!
The “trim size” JAVELIN
WITH THE LARGE-CAR FEATURES
vtx\
Acceleration 0.60 in
22.2 secs.
Horizontally opposed
Fiat-four 50 b.h.p.
Engine.
Torsion Bar Suspen-
sion.
Steel Body.
A streamlined beauty with room
for up to 6 passengers and
luggage. A car that will give
you a smoother road-hugging
ride, 35 m.p.g. economy, and
amazing acceleration. You have
to drive the Javelin over the
worst roads you know to feel
the miracle of its torsion bar
suspension and to enjoy real
shockless steering. Once tried
you’ll say “I’d rather go by
Javelin 1”
& Made in Bradford, England, by JOWETT CARS LIMITED
COMMONWEALTH DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. and A.C.T.: Bradford Cars Pty. Ltd., 218 New South Head Rd., Edgccliff
Phone: FB 3100.
Victoria: Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 149-155 Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
Queensland: Redman Motors, 46-54 Edward St., Brisbane.
South Aust.: British Engineering Appliances Ltd., 430 King William St., Adelaide
Western Aust.: Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., 722 Wellington St., Perth.
Tasmania: Donald Gorringe Pty. Ltd., 72 Argyle Street, Hobart.
TUB H LITRE
JOWETT
NrmAvr
t&ke a gevd ia&A wk&7 Jt/rada&t got*
the landings. The troops used
in the northern operations,
apart from the South Koreans,
consisted of the First Marine
Division, another Infantry divi-
sion and supporting troops. In
the southern command. General
Walker in the Eighth Army has
had latterly two corps—l Corps
under Major-General Frank
Milburn made up of the U.S.
First Cavalry and 24th Infantry
Divisions, the British 24th Bri-
gade and any other U.N.O.
forces which might come along.
The IX Corps is under Major-
General John B. Coulter and is
made up of the U.S. 2nd and
25th Divisions.
Recruiting Campaigns.
“Ek Dum”: The recruiting
campaign launched on Monday,
October 2, in all States brought
Press headlines for a day or two.
The overall target is an enlist-
ment of 58,000 in the three ser-
vices :
Navy. Army. Air.
N. S. Wales .. 1910 1800 1520
Victoria .. .. 1310 1200 1010
Queensland .. 870 700 570
S. Australia .. 380 300 305
Westralia .. 760 350 220
Tasmania ~ 220 150 125
The total will be divided
among the permanent military
forces (13,750) and the citizen
forces (44,620), of which 32,256
are to be allocated to the citi-
zen military forces to bring
them up to their proposed
strength of 50,000.
All commands are so short
that at present scarcely one mili-
tary area has one-in-three of its
needed total of manpower.
Men required must be between
years of age for general
service in the R.A.N., 18-35
years for the military field
forces and 18-45 years for men
on fixed establishment. Men
with no previous service are
taken into the Permanent Army
from 18 to 25 years of age, or,
if they have served previously,
up to 30 years of age, tradesmen
up to 41 years. Air-crew limits
are 18-25 years, ground staff
18-45 years, except where train-
ing is necessary, when a limit of
35 years is set for skilled trades
and 42 years for semi-skilled.
With Mr. McGirr—the only
civilian who insists on leading
an Anzac Day march —coming
in to help the campaign with
the Premiers of the other States,
men were beginning to roll in
by Wednesday, but on Friday
morning the Sydney dailies made
no mention of recruiting except
in their advertising columns.
There was a discouraging para-
graph giving the views of an
airman returned from Korea
who said that the forces there
were “browned off” because they
had missed the big push.
If the public does not give a
bit more support to Sir Edmund
Herring the new batches of en-
listees may miss the next big
push as well.
War on Our Borders.
“Ek Dum”: War is still in
being in the south-west of the
Indonesian Republic, an hour’s
flying from Australian territory,
as President Soekarno applies
the principles of freedom to the
conquest of the South Moluccas
Republic.
During the week Indonesian
aircraft bombed and strafed
towns in Amboina. Indonesian
naval ships shelled Ambon city
and Republican ground forces
were said to have subdued the
northern part of the island,
which is the pivot of the area
which proclaimed its independ-
ence on April 26—Ambon,
Ceram, Aru, Banda and Kai
Islands, all adjacent to the New
Guinea coast.
President Soekarno and his
radio have little to say about
military operations taking place
there, but a lot about the
responsibility of the Dutch for
resistance movements and about
their wicked stubbornness in
“hanging on to Western New
Guinea simply and solely be-
cause of the sentiment which
still lives in the Netherlands of
considering that country as a
big Power with colonies both in
the East and the West.”
His attitude and his use of
armed force is ominous for the
kind of settlement which may
take place in Western New
Guinea.
The Dutch have asked U.N.O.
to arrange a cease-fire in the
South Moluccas, and the U.N.
Commission is “considering
steps.”
At the week-end, the Indo-
nesian Government declared that
its victory in Ambon was almost
complete and announced its
regret that it had been forced to
take “drastic measures” against
the rebels. The atrocities of
Soekarno’s forces and their
association with the lapanese
show how deep and sincere these
regrets are likely to be.
Atlantic Defence Plans
“Ek Dum”: The joint plan of
the North Atlantic Council for
the defence of the West, which
was approved in New York at
the end of last month, is not as
far-reaching as it might be be-
cause of the fact that France
was not prepared to go all the
way with the other Powers on
the question of arming the Ger-
mans.
The plan will be based on five
points:
(1) The integrated force will be
organised under the North Atlantic
Council.
(2) It will be under a supreme com-
mander with delegated authority for
the training of national contingents
as an effective force in peace as well
as in war.
(3) Until, a c.-in-c. has been ap-
pointed a chief of staff will carry the
responsibility.
(4) The supreme commander when
appointed will be supported by an
international staff representing all
contributing nations.
(5) Higher strategic direction will
be in the hands of the “standing
group” of the Atlantic Treaty, con-
sisting of Britain, the United States
and France.
The attitude of France is that
Western Germany should not be
allowed to contribute military
units until the whole matter has
been considered weightily. But
while delay is thus being pro-
duced the Russians already have
armed Eastern Germany, and
Comrade Ulbricht, one of its
chief Communist agents for
Moscow, has been on a tour of
south-eastern Europe, beginning
with Rumania, signing pacts for
the “defence of peace” with the
obedient satellites of the
U.S.S.R. on the eve of the Com-
munist - organised strikes in
Vienna.
Rumania, Bulgaria, Poland,
Czechoslovakia and Hungary
have now signed up with East
Germany, while the French are
still asserting that their public
opinion will never agree in
present circumstances to any-
thing but economic aid to the
defence effort from Western
Germany.
Meanwhile, Turkey and
Greece have agreed to take their
share in the defence of the Medi-
terranean, and the Egyptians,
who, in the last few months,
have made British and Aus-
tralian passengers the victims of
every kind of insult and in-
solence, are complaining loudly
that Britain is not sending them
armament quickJy enough.
Italy’s military arrangements
are now formulated after con-
siderable obstruction by
Socialists and Communists, who
objected bitterly to the forma-
tion of a home guard which
might interfere with their future
plans. It is proposed that under
a three-year plan, with the help
of military aid from the United
States and other nations, the
Italian forces can be built up
to a strength of 12 organised
divisions. At present Italy has
eight divisions of sorts outside
the Bersaglieri and Alpini and
an armored brigade.
Under the general home-
defence plan the police force is
to be increased in numbers to
82,000, and there will be eight
new mobile police battalions, 30
new groups of road and railway
police and new carabinieri posts
all over the country.
A new branch of the Ministry
of the Interior is to be set up to
deal with civilian defence, with
power to enrol members of the
public services and volunteers.
The bill provides for requisition
of property upon the issue of a
declaration of urgency and for
absolute universal conscription
where the Council of Ministers
proclaims the State to be in
danger.


W . '■
m
m
They've taken
the right road
Although he s a young man, Mr. Smith looks to the future. Instead of
appointing a private executor who might prove incapable of carrying out
. complicated duties, Mr. Smith has made Burns Philp Trust Company
Limited his executor. This means that his estate will be efficiently
managed, and his family spared unnecessary worry.
Consult a senior Burns Philp Trust Officer to-day. If you cannot call, write
for Hands That Never Leave The Wheel," a booklet explaining how your
family can be given this permanent protection.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell p. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, F.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
Executor Trustee Attorney
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
Tel. BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.O.
BPIS-50
k!Z/>
r^T
until summer is nearly over f
and swelter day and night
INSULATE
your home NOW with
3.1. SLAG WOOL
No house, home, office or building is modern and entirely
healthy unless it is insulated preferably with BJ%
SLAGWOOL.
dsf
dsf
m
'rafPflflKS- srtht?, wumr • Melbourne, mu 3506
BRISBANE, L. 3504 ♦ ADELAIDE, GT257 • PERTH, 1210/
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE WEST’S FRONT LINE.
Decisions of the Western
Foreign Ministers on incorporat-
ing German troops in the com-
bined Western defence army and
permitting a considerable
strengthening of West German
police forces, and also the
American decision to increase
U.S. divisions in Europe, add up
to an accepting that the main
front-line of the West against
Russian aggression is in Europe,
to be defended as far east as
possible, and that the time for
adequately arming it has been
allowed to get perilously short.
In a London “Observer”
article Viscount Trenchard has
stated the conclusion upon which
the Western decisions have been
based; “It is clear that, while
we may be threatened or
attacked in many parts of the
world, Western Europe is still
the vital area.” Mentioning the
obvious logical conclusion that,
therefore, the further east the de-
fence line the better, he reckons
“half-a-million soldiers, backed
by overwhelming and efficient
airpower,” as enough to stop the
Russians if they decide to march.
From that this authority pro-
ceeded :
“But where shall we find the
500,000 men? France was bled
white during the First World
War, and her main forces are
already fighting in Indo-China.
Belgium and Holland and the
Scandinavian countries are too
small to contribute more than
a few brigades or divisions, and
it is politically impossible for
the British and American Gov-
ernments to commit thousands
of their men to static defence
positions in Europe in peace-
time. We must look to Western
Germany to provide a great part
of the European ground forces.
There is no other way out. As
soon as possible Western Ger-
many must be rearmed on a
limited basis.”
The decision to incorporate
German troops in the Western
line-up is regarded by practically
all the military authorities as
not only quite inescapable but
actually belated. As London
“Economist” points out, “As has
happened so often in Germany,
events have overtaken and
passed policy.” It is obvious
that, politically, what has been
decided on is as much as France
(and probably Britain) could be
induced by American represen-
tations to agree to.
It accords also with present
most-representative German out-
look. German political leaders
themselves have expressed their
fears of a revival of German
militarism, and “want a new
German Army only as part of
a massively greater deployment
of European and American mili-
tary strength.” Reporting this,
N. Y. “Herald Tribune” (a con-
sistent opposer of militarist Ger-
many) has had to allow:
“In the long run the Atlantic
Powers have not, and never will
have, the power to defend an
unarmed and merely passive
West Germany. West Germany
—with all its vast industrial and
population complex—can ulti-
mately be defended only if its
own people are willing and able
to assist; and that they will not
be until they have the army, the
weapons, the spirit of national
patriotism and resolution, which
would alone give hope and
meaning to their efforts.”
That is typical of the Russian-
provoked very great change of
outlook ; not so great a change
in America as in the places that
have really felt the past German
frenzies. Even on the sugges-
tions which have been freely
made that Western Germany
should be not merely permitted
but encouraged to rearm, Lon-
don “Spectator” has had to
comment: “It is an astonishing
indication of the change which
has taken place in the last 12
months in the climate of Europe
that this suggestion now raises
more technical than political
difficulties; indeed, the main
political objection to German
rearmament comes from Ger-
many itself.”
A London “Daily Express”
correspondent in Germany has
reported the actual German out-
look to be: “The Bonn Govern-
ment has already said it will not
supply German infantry as ‘can-
non fodder’ for the West. The
Germans want either a real army
with strong panzer and Luft-
waffe formations to collaborate
with the West—or nothing.”
The opposite, more favorable,
view is expressed by London
“Time and Tide”: “Whatever
the criticisms which may be
levelled against the German
character or against German re-
actions since the war, there are
no signs of militarism in Western
Germany today. The people
whose militarism once and again
threatened and broke the peace
of Europe are now unwilling to
be rearmed even under per-
suasion.”
Against that rosy view, it is a
*o^
/PI
/
/♦
—Detroit ( U.S.A. ) “Free Press.”
“WHO WANTS A SPELL. ANYHOW?”
German publication, the Frank-
furt “Neue Presse,” which gives
this warning: “Chancellor
Adenauer and Dr, Schumacher
have agreed that they will
jointly fight the renaissance of
another generals’ regime. How-
ever, that danger emerges in
Germany as soon as a German
army is formed. We have had
our experience, and the lesson
from it is obvious: If there will
be a German contribution foi
the military defence of Europe,
then this will only be in a Euro-
pean army in which any influ-
ence of national generals or
officers is neutralised. If there
should be a German Army, then
it would be the generals of such
an army who at a critical stage
might make the decision for
Germany on East or West. Such
a possibility is intolerable, since
our [Germans’] decision for
Western Europe has already
been made,”
There are, naturally, many
other risks which no doubt fixed
the limited nature of the role
Germany is for the present to
have in Western defence ; e.g.,
one pointed out by the “Specta-
tor”; “that a rearmed Western
Germany would almost auto-
matically be compelled to under-
take adventures in the east —first
the incorporation of the Eastern
zone and then the revision of
the Polish frontiers.” Another,
pointed to by London “Daily
Telegraph,” is that “the spectacle
of a rearming Western Germany
might, as numerous Western
Germans profess to fear, pro-
voke Russia into a decision to
attack.”
“Then again,” the same paper
has commented, “the world has
bitter experience of an outwardly
pacific Germany becoming sud-
denly transformed into a vicious
aggressor. Admittedly there is
little analogy between the pre-
sent situation and that of the
’thirties, for now the Western
Germans are as alarmed at the
prospect of being overrun by the
Russians as the rest of the West.
Still, it is a factor to be reckoned
with.”
However, after a general
weighing-up it reaches the con-
clusion which' no doubt finally
decided the mapping of the
West’s first-priority front-line,
with Germany among its de-
fenders : “The risks are obvious,
and they are keenly felt by those
who have so often been her vic-
tims in the past three-quarters
of a century. Unhappily, we live
in a highly precarious world
where risk is unavoidable.”
“The War Is On.”
Appended here is probably as
thoroughly representative a re-
flection of the general prevail-
ing American mood as could be
had, concerning the early Korea
setbacks and the darker threat
that still looms.
The quotations are from a
full-page “New York Times”
“advertisement,” signed by a
round two dozen leading Ameri-
can writers, publicists, etc., in-
cluding such names as Richard
Aldrich, Maxwell Anderson,
Irving Berlin;
“The action in Korea shows
us what would happen to us in
the Pacific if Russia were to
send her own forces against us.
We could not hold Korea, we
could not hold Japan, we could
not hold the Philippines, we
probably could not hold Alaska
and perhaps not Hawaii.
“A recent discussion in the
House of Commons exposed
very frankly what would happen
to Europe if Russia decided to
march west. Eighty Russian
divisions and four or five
thousand tanks are mobilised
and ready. Nothing could stop
them before they reached the
English Channel.
“There is only one reason why
Russia has not already annexed
our Pacific holdings and Western
Europe. She is afraid that if
she makes open war on us we
will drop atomic bombs. And
we probably would. The world
has no other reply to the enor-
mous military machine Russia
is holding over our heads.
“There are many honest men
who are wondering whether any-
thing we could win by a war
would be worth the immense
and prolonged sacrifices a war
will certainly demand of us.
But one steady look at the Polit-
buro makes it obvious to any
American that he could not en-
dure existence in that vast con-
centration camp which is Russia
and her satellites. We know
democracy is not perfect; it’s
only a political system which
tries to give all its citizens a fair
chance under rules of fair play.
It’s not perfect, but it’s the best
men have had so far, and the
Communist slave-State is prob-
ably the worst. There are con-
ditions under which life is not
worth living, and those are the
exact conditions now offered by
Russia to the rest of the earth.
“Living in a democracy, we
are prejudiced against violence
and try to avoid trouble when
we can, but the men of violence
are marching their slaves against
us again. We cannot accept
what they offer. Weary of war
though we are, it’s better to
fight.
“Ultimately we shall win. The
atom-bomb is still ours, and is
holding the Russians at their
borders. Invention and thought,
which are dead in Russia, are
very much alive among us, and
they will begin to find ways to
defeat the massed power of
slaves and steel.
“But from now on let us make
no mistake about it: the war is


insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, I'ire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager
ds
DEFEAT THAT OLD
DEVIL DANDRUFF'
wm * luipie-
HAIRDRESSING
(WITH LANOLIN)
Lustre Creme —America s
favourite Hair Dressing—
has a high quality Lanolin
base that is best for your
scalp and best for your
hair. A little Lustre Creme
—a few seconds combing
—and you’ve handsome
hair all day. It gives no
"plastered down" look!
Try Lustre Creme to-day!
mm
mm
mm
• Relieves dry scalp
• Removes loose dandruff
• Gives lustre to dull,
unruly hair
® Makes hair healthy
and handsome
It’s handier in a tube
A Kay Daumit
Preparation
I.H4/1J0
Sold at all
Chemists & Stores
21-
4V*
m
f-vJi
h
\
i
t f> ”
s&*<? u "'
<$ »
> 11
*. •*«& **s*
» If <*.,.*• *
»jr
j£mjtJbU#\
£>Ws. >?'%s§&?& <*.
T
*«• vi
PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE
Unloading 90 ton Mill
Housing for new Lysaght
Cold Rolling Mill.
In 1917, John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty.,
Ltd., commenced rolling the now
famous Orb brand Galvanized Cor-
rugated Iron. Since then and in
keeping with the steadily growing
demands of Australian home-builders
and manufacturers a progressive
policy of expansion has been followed
by the Company which has resulted
in today's enormous output and
greatly expanded range of grades
and qualities designed to meet every
conceivable industrial and architec-
tural need. Future plans call for an
even more extensive developmental
programme and aim at doubling the
present huge tonnage.
LYSAGHTS
"Growing with Australia
fds
John Lysaght (Australia) Ply. Ltd.
mm m
Ull-8234
on, the chips are down. Those
among us who defend Russia or
Communism are enemies of
freedom and traitors to the
United Nations and the United
States. American soldiers are
dying in a battle against slavery,
against Russia’s attempt to en-
slave mankind. Every man’s
house will be in a target area
before this thing ends, whether
we like it or not.
“The United Nations is on
our side, because Russia is at
war with every nation that in-
sists on being free. Fortunately,
President Truman has seen the
Russian danger, and he knows
as well as Churchill how boldly
and rapidly we must act if we,
as a nation, are to come out of
this conflict alive. He will make
very heavy demands on us, and
very soon. He will have to make
them, and we shall have to give
everything we have to defend
our liberty.
“Well, let us give it, and let
us give ourselves, till Russia too
has been taught that our free
world is more than a match for
the world of Genghis Khan.”
Kashmir Squabble.
In British Press comment on
Justice Owen Dixon’s failure to
reconcile the irreconcilable it is
generally accepted that the
future relations of India and
Pakistan are now quite unpre-
dictable, with, in most comment,
an undercurrent of fearing the
worst. Meanwhile, “Manchester
Guardian” editorially points
out the wider consequences of
the Kashmir squabble:
“By causing India and Paki-
stan to concentrate so much of
their national effort on their
armies it has delayed the eco-
nomic development of both
countries. It has retarded their
exports, increased their need for
imports and external aid
generally and thi;s has had a
direct bearing upon the difficul-
ties of the sterling area and on
the devaluation of the pound.”
The quarrel, it concludes,
“will dog, and may endanger,
the enterprise of the economic
development of South Asia, on
which the Commonwealth is now
bent.”
Justice Dixon’s final report
to the Security Council virtually
amounted to “a plague on both
your houses.” He said he saw
no hope of settling the quarrel by
the good offices of a third
party; he therefore suggested
that they should negotiate an
agreement by themselves. On
which London “Times”;
“The Security Council, in re-
ceiving the report, is immedi-
ately faced with a dilemma. It
cannot wholly divest itself of
concern in a dispute which still
threatens the peace of South
Asia. The council has no
guarantee that the two sides, left
to themselves, would come any
nearer to agreement than they
have done with a mediator pre-
sent. Indeed, if the council ap-
peared to withdraw altogether
after so many hopes had been
placed in it, popular feelings in
Pakistan —and especially on the
North-west Frontier —might be-
come highly inflamed.”
The best course, it suggested,
would be for the council to
recommend the two sides to seek
a compromise themselves, with-
out any mediation from outside
but with instructions to report
back to the council by a speci-
fied date. In that way the
responsibility for settling the
dispute would be put squarely
on the shoulders of the leaders
of the two countries, but the
council would retain the right
to take up the matter again if
the new effort failed.
A complete failure is con-
sidered by well-informed ob-
servers as certain to lead to war
—virtually a civil one, and as
terrible as was ever waged.
Blessed Are the Meek.
Judged by his statement on
receiving news of the Nobel
Peace Prize for 1950 awarded
to him, U.S. negro mediator Dr.
Ralph Bunce accomplished the
near-impossible of the Palestine
armistice simply by virtue of the
kind of man he is.
“Needless to say,” he stated,
“I received this news with deep
humility....
“For five months I was chief
assistant of Count Folke Berna-
dette, the great and courageous
man who gave his life in the de-
termined effort to bring peace
to Palestine. It was Count
Bernadotte who achieved the
first truce in Palestine and
thereby laid the essential founda-
tions for the armistice agree-
ments
“In a very real sense, the task
performed in Palestine was a co-
operative achievement carried
out by a highly competent
team of more than 700 military
observers and international civil
servants of many nationalities.
At this moment I cannot forget
that Count Bernadotte and ten
other members of our team gave
their lives in the effort to restore
peace to Palestine.”
Dragnet Digest.
Keeping Russia in U.N.O. —Official
U.S. reason for opposing attempts tc
put Russia out, as given by America’;.
U.N.O. delegate Austin: “Our objec
tive is peace. We do not find peac.
by throwing out the person with
whom we must make the peace.”
* * * *
Unarmed J. Bull. —The state into
which Britain’s defences had been
allowed to sink is clearly indicated in
a sentence or two of a London “Eco-
nomist” article on the Attlee Socialists’
belated signs of action: “There is
almost no sector of the British system
of defences which does not need con-
siderable strengthening. The air de-
fences of Great Britain, the mobile
defence of Western Europe, the de-
fence of the Middle East, the creation
of a mobile reserve to resist aggres-
sion wherever it may next occur in
the Far East, all these can present
cogent claims to be given first
priority.”
¥ * * *
Tibet, a Sitter. —lt’s assessed as an
easy mark in a London “Sunday
Times” report from its vicinity; which
adds that any time now Chinese Com-
munist troops will simply march to
the capital, probably without a fight.
Tibet has 40,000 troops of sorts, but
what there may have been in them
was finally knocked out by the U.S.
having declared the country “un-
defendable” and India having made
only mild “hands-off” protests.
* * * He
The Gentle Koreans. —U.N.O.’s
Korean Commission found no diffi-
culty in sheeting the aggression home
to the North (“the Communists had
launched a carefully-prepared full-
scale invasion when their efforts to
undermine South Korea from within
had failed”). The commission then
turned its gaze on the South, and said
of it: “In the first four months ol
1950 a total of 32,018 persons were
arrested, of whom 26,832 were sent to
the procurator’s office and 5186 to
police courts.” It had been informed
that some of the arrests involved
“violation of constitutional liberties
and even brutal treatment and tor-
ture.”
* * * *
U.S. Far East Blundering. —Stating
that the November U.S. Congressiona
elections are going to be fought on
foreign policy, and that there is no
doubt the American public is “dis-
turbed, unhappy and not a little con-
fused by the whole story,” N. Y.
“Herald Tribune” editorially com-
ments: “The valid criticism of fU.S.J
policy in the Far East is not that it
has been treasonable or underhanded,
but that it has been blundering, vacil-
lating, temporising, ignorant, or at
best inadequately informed, falling
from one crisis into another with a
minimum of preparation or foresight.
The President has often shown force
and firmness in emergency, but has
never seemed to realise that emergency
might be coming.”
Formosans. —Stating that “We read
a lot about whether me Red Chinese
or the Chinese Nationalists should
have Formosa, but few, except the
Americans, seem to worry about what
the sm. Formosans would like them-
selves,” William Teeling, M.P., in
a London “Times” letter, sketches
in a bit of background: “Formosa
has not belonged to China since
1895, and for two centuries before
then the country was controlled by
Chinese who, like Chiang Kai-shek,
had fled from China and their descen-
dants. Like the Anglo-Irish they
became, in many cases, more For-
mosan than the Formosans. In 1895
they offered Formosa to Great
Britain. The Japanese took it over
that year by treaty with a China which
had not enough authority there even
to hand it over.”
* * f:- *
Canada Trades with U.S. —As re-
corded by London “Economist,”
there has been a probably deeply sig-
nificant change in Canada’s trade re-
lationships. Before the war Canadian
exports were equally divided between
the U.S. and Britain; 37 per cent, of
the total exports went to each. In
1949 the U.S. took 51 per cent, of
Canadian exports and the United
Kingdom took only 24 per cent. In
the first half of this year the U.S.
took 64 per cent, of total Canadian
exports, and Britain’s share was down
to 17 per cent. In imports the U.S.
was always Canada’s chief supplier.
Between 1935 and 1939 it supplied 61
per cent, of Canadian imports, against
Britain’s 18 per cent. The U.S. share
rose to 70 per cent, in 1949, and just
under 70 per cent, in the first half of
this year. Britain’s share dropped to
11 per cent, in 1949; for the first five
months of this year it was 12.8 per
cent.


Even tough old
(aces like his
B;
after a cool,
cool Ingram's
shave...
m
feel almost as
smooth as this
Si
w
Like all reaily good shaving creams, Ingram's foams
into thick, whisker-wilting lather fast! But more —it
helps condition your skin for shaving—soothes burns and
stings. And Ingram's refreshing coolness lingers on! So
treat yourself to a fresh face tomorrow. Get a jar of
Ingram's today from your chemist!
COMBINES ITS OWN FACE LOTION
A product of Bristol Myers
1621
mjm
SHAVING
Ingram's
Shaving
Cream
Comfortable
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PATRICIA CROSS late of 43 Moore
Park Road Paddington.—TAKE NOTICE
that MARGARET ANN SUTHERLAND
has filed a Petition No. 3084 of 1949 pray-
ing for a Divorce from JOHN WALLACE
SUTHERLAND on the ground of his
adultery with you You may apply to the
Court to be allowed to defend A copy of
the Petition mav be obtained without
charge from OSBORNE MITCHELL
ALLEN, Petitioner’s Solicitor, 56 Hunter
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
00w-
r
mmt
TYRES
/<OO% dus/rafa/r .. C6a/npfo/fs o/Me faaef
A PRODUCT OiYHPit TYRE & ROBBER CO. LTD,
SMOKE-OH!
“A man remembers a woman by
the perfume she wore.”
—Weekly paper.
And pays through the nose
for it.
A 4,
“For sale, wire doom mats to save
taking all the dirt in the house.”
—Suburban paper.
If you don’t wipe your feet
you’re done for.
“Her handsome father, from whom
the bride inherits her sapphire-blue
eyes, will offer his arm to the first
strains of ‘Lohengrin.’ ”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Which will accompany him
down the aisle.
•b *b *b
“Some employers are offering new
suits to go with good jobs.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
You get the job and the sac
simultaneously.
■f- "b *b
“Her painting unconsciously sym-
bolised her lack of a saol in life.”
— “S. M. Herald v art critic.
Hence her pictures never cell.
“Workers have dug up 800 coins
bearing King Canute’s seal.”
Apparently he had plenty to
tide him over.
Vintage Draught.
“I’ve eaten horsemeat in England
and France, and, believe me, if it’s
cooked properly it’s a darn sight
better than some of the ‘prime’
steak and ’lamb’ chops for which 1
pay through the nose in Sydney.”
Correspondent in Sydney daily.
Away with dietetic cranks —
Those chaps who wouldn’t give
you thanks
For beefsteaks underdone and
big.
And shudder at the thought of
tackling
The merest little bit of crackling
From off a tender sucking-pig.
I love to watch the fat that drops
While I am grilling short-loin
chops ;
To catch the gorgeous whiff of
steak
On camp-fire cooked when I am
hiking ;
Moreover, / confess to liking
A juicy rib-roast set to bake.
All these are good, but I’ll
endorse
This eulogy of well-cooked
horse ;
For never was there herd or flock
That could provide a meat so
tender
As steaks from some con-
demned tail-ender —
With just a little taste of hock.
D. H. E.
Another New Science.
“A new ‘science of the mind,’
dianetics, is the latest Hollywood
craze. It preaches the belief that a
patient can rid himself of complexes,
or ‘engrams,’ by remembering tears
and pain suffered as a child. Some
film companies are seeking the ‘inven-
tor’s’ co-operation to improve actors
and films.”
Sirius X. Katzenguggle, the
great movie mogul, shifted the
cigar he had been mangling to
the other side of his mouth and
bent his shrewd gaze on the
high-priest of the new cult.
“Just whaht is this new dia-
betic set-up, bud?” he asked.
“Dianetic,” snapped the in-
ventor, “Sorta crahss between
diabolo and genetics, see?
Cahncentration, ups and downs,
race-purity, all actin’ on the
mnemonic nerve, see? Mighty
cahmplicated, but it woiks. I’ll
tell the cockeyed woild it
woiks! ”
“But how does it woik?”
asked Sirius X. impatiently.
“Say, I ain’t sucker enough to
spill all the dope about it. That’s
sure my know-how. It’ll cahst
you plenty, but it’ll be woith it
to you. Yes, sir !
“Now, take this musical pot-
boiler you got on the stocks,
garace
'^ s sP‘-
“Hotel Australia, please, drivah .”
‘Rhumba-time Gal,’ with Mitzi
Dumbelle, the ‘blues’ singer, co-
starring with Kelly Homo, the
stoodio’s ace groaner. Hoof-
an’-moan strung on a story so
weak the ink it’s printed with
had to be laced with hooch. It’ll
cahst your stoodio nothin’
under thirty grand, and you’ll
be lucky if you gross twenty, an’
then only after you’ve had to
prod the come-ons into shud-
dering through it when their
alleged brains have been pulped
by a high-pressure blurb cam-
paign. Ain’t I right?”
“You sure are, bud,” admitted
Sirius X. gloomily. “Mitzi sure
has the voice and the chassis,
but I gahta admit she’s gaht
complexes—and how! An’ she
puts enough ham in her actin’
to stock a delicatessen store. I
ain’t so sure, either, how the
bobbysoxers are goin’ to treat
our ace groaner when they see
his ginger mo in technicolor ; but
he insists on it. Still, the stoodio’s
gaht to churn out somethin’ to
keep the mental age of the fans
down to eleven. You reckon
you can improve the box-office
chances of the fillum by workin’
this diabetic set-up on the stars?”
“Dianetic, bud. Sure, it’ll be
just a cinch! Give me the
cahntract on the terms I stated
and your troubles will be over.
No results, no pay—that’s fair
enough.”
“Okay, bud. She’s all yours.
My vice-president will guide you
on the dotted. Now get goin’.”
The inventor of dianetics got
going, starting on Miss Dum-
belle.
“Now, babe,” he said to the
star in her dressing-room, “I see
you gaht a hangover from the
party at the Mocamba last night,
right? Well, forget it. Just
cahncentrate on thinkin’ o’ that
earache you had when y’ was
two months old, see? Okay, so
your head’s clear. Now that
slab-sided walk you gaht when
you’re trying to be coy on the
set while strolling with your boy-
friend. You always get it as the
cameras start rolling. Forget it.
Remember instead the time you
bawled for two hours after your
momma stuck the safety-pin in
you. Just keep remembering
that every time you perambulate
with yoiy hunk of man under
the Kleig lights and you’ll de-
velop a walk like the Dowager
Duchess of Dillwater’d have if
someone held a slab of ancient
Limburger under her snout.”
“Oh, do you think I”
“Shut up, babe, you’re being
de-engrammed. Now, whenever
that tahp note of yours acts on
your epiglottis, if y’ got one,
like a woodrasp across a bit o’
beefsteak there’s no need to go
all historical and want to rush
off to put your head in the
stove and turn the gas on. The
fans have done nothin’ to de-
serve a break like that. All y’
gaht to do is cast your mind
back—yep, I said your mind—
to that childhood day back in
the old home town when you
slid down the banister that
hadn’t been properly planed.
“You gaht that memory?
Well, hold it! Now, while
you’re thinkin’ o’ that let’s hear
you sing the big number in the
film ‘After I’ve Had Hot Soup
My Roll-ons Start to Prickle’ —
um-tiddy umpty —that’s it! Now
cahncentrate on the splinter
while you’re screechin’ for that
G. That’s it! Boy! If the
recording director had only been
here! Now again, an’ this time
open your nose a bit more as
you sing, an’ don’t forget to let
that —er —brain o’ yours, babe,
dwell, while you’re yellin’, on
the moment your momma put
the friar’s balsam on after the
tweezers had done their work.
“Now that’s swell! I guess
that’s de-engrammed the cahm-
plex you didn’t know y’ had
with your voice. You’re set now
like a bad case o’ rheumatics,
babe. But keep up solid on the
harrowin’ memories, see?”
It was some days later, while
the expert was bending his giant
intellect to the task of de-
engramming the many complexes
of the ace-groaner that Sirius X.
Katzenguggle burst in, livid with
rage.
“You an’ your dodgasted
hooey!” he roared. “The
stoodio’ll sue you for a hundred
grand for this.”
The inventor looked at the
mogul. “Why the overplus of
bile, Sirius?” he asked. “I been
doin’ a good job on the dia-
netics, ain’t I?”
“Sez you! Here’s Mitzi can’t
think of anything but toothaches
and splinters, and now she’s
singin’— singin’, mind y’, instead
of howlin’. She sings like she
enjoys it an’ not like she’s in a
morgue. You’ve rooined her
voice. Now get to hell out of
here with your diabetics!”
BO.
Spirit of Co-operation.
“People can’t be expected to keep
100 pei cent, tit all the time. Even
machines break down.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
In industry there’s endless strife
Against the ever-mounting strain
On those who work with might
and main
To earn enough to keep a wife;
And absences today are rife
When personnel just can’t main-
tain
The pace that tells on heart and
brain
With risk to health and even life.
And yet I feel the problem
could
Be solved, and illnesses be foiled,
If managements but understood
How smooth machine-efficiency
Could be achieved quite readily
By keeping workers nicely oiled.
BERT.


&*CMS
OJV-
err.
muimm
CHAMP
SPARKPLUGS
m
a
jmmvj
sanoM
CI4
TRADE MARK
FACTORIES: FELTHAM, ENG.;
TOLEDO, 0.5. A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and Improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the
orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARKERS DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27P), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Ci
JL
<?
43~
■Mm
m
When the perfection of the setting
calls for something of
real character and unquestionable
distinction, you will find
the appropriate cigarette hears
the name of Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London in
keeping with the occasion
when only the best will do.
ev APPOINTMENT
tobacconists to
MIS MAJESTY the KIN 6
In
tins of 20
3/-
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BensonZJ Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET , LONDON
we 10
«*»
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT/
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
The AJ.C. spring meeting, which
wound up at Randwick on Saturday,
must have left bookmakers wonder-
ing what on earth had hit them.
Usually the boys can rely with abso-
lute confidence on at least one or
two skinners coming to light in the
course of a big meeting at head-
quarters, but, for once, not a solitary
rough ’un was sighted in four days.
From the 29 races decided only one
winner started at double-figure odds,
that being Lloric, who, at 10 to 1,
was fourth in the betting on the
Breeders’ Plate. On the other hand,
winners included nine favorites, two
equal-favorites and five second-
favorites. However, it is unlikely
that any severe losses are suffered
by such bookmakers as were capable
on Saturday of installing six equal-
favorites at 5 to 1 in one race, while
in another event, with five starters,
they had three of them quoted at
9 to 4.
As Melbourne visitors are apt to
take high delight in reminding Syd-
neysiders, it wouldn’t be a spring
meeting at Randwick without foul
weather obtruding somewhere along
the line. Metrop. day stopped it this
time, with a steady downpour per-
sisting throughout the afternoon.
Imported Marconigram, who is now
dead, had a very long and successful
stud career. Yearlings of his were
offered at the Sydney sales as recently
as 1949; yet one of his sons,
Marabou, won a Melbourne, Cup as
far back as 1935, and has since sired
the winners of some £50,000 in stakes,
including the 1941 Melbourne Cup
winner Skipton, who, in turn, went
to stud and has five-year-olds of his
get racing today. In the course of
amassing some £200,000 in stakes,
progeny of Marconigram won, among
all manner of good races, pretty well
every important staying test of the
Australian turf, including the two
Derbies, the two St. Legers and Mel-
bourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Hobart
and Williamstown Cups; as well
might be mentioned two Grand
National Steeples. But the Metro-
politan had evaded them until Con-
ductor came to light this year.
Delta, equal-favorite with Cara-
pooe, was an inexplicable disappoint-
ment in the Metrop. Handy to the
lead all the way, he was second into
the straight, but then collapsed to
such purpose that he finished almost
last. His subsequent excellent win
over the two miles of the Randwick
Plate on Saturday did not suggest
any lack of stamina; possibly he was
not suited by handicap conditions,
of which he has had little experience.
Ridden by A, Thompson, Conductor
did the job well in the Metrop. One
of the first out at the start, he was
eased back to about midfield, and
did not make his run until they were
well into the straight; then he finished
brilliantly, wide out on the back, to
just overhaul Indian Chief and Saville
Row, the margins being a nose and
a neck.
Apart from the main race, the most
impressive performance noted on
Metrop. day was that of Grey Boots
in just failing to down San Domenico
in the mile w.-f.-a. George Main
Stakes. With the other runners,
Donegal, Playboy and the Epsom
winner Achilles, Grey Boots had
trailed the field most of the way,
but over the final furlong he unwound
a burst which took him to within a
neck of San Domenico. Already a
Doncaster winner, Grey Boots would
have taken some beating in the
Epsom, but he has been reserved for
the Caulfield Cup, and, handicapped
at a mere 7.13, he may be even
harder to toss in that race.
Jockey D. Munro chalked up his
fourth Gimcrack Stakes success when
the Golden Sovereign filly Merrie
Merton ran out a comfortable winner
from Fourth Dimension and White
Lightning. Merrie Merton is very
much bred for speed. Most of
Golden Sovereign’s get are fast, and
Merrie Merton’s dam Gloriole, a
daughter of Heroic-Gloaming’s Sister,
was a very speedy youngster; she
won a number of sprint events, and
formerly held the Randwick course
record for five furlongs at 59sec.
Wednesday, the traditional Ladies’
Day, saw a good double credited to
progeny of The Buzzard, with Play-
boy taking the Craven Plate (lOf.)
and Yamboon the Sydney Handicap.
Backers of Playboy, accustomed to
seeing the big chestnut win his races
from behind, suffered some anxiety
when jockey G. Moore sent him to
the front with seven furlongs to go.
However, Moore’s judgment proved
sound; nothing thereafter looked
like troubling Playboy, who won by
a couple of lengths from Benvolo,
with Careless a distant third. Now,
of course, Playboy has come much
into favor for the Caulfield and Mel-
bourne Cups. However, while recog-
nising the fine staying ability Playboy
has shown over the past 12 months,
it may be well to keep in mind that
this has all been shown in Sydney.
In two trips to Melbourne and one
to Brisbane Playboy has produced
nothing approaching his Sydney
form.
Although the winning margin was
only three-parts of a length, Yam-
boon (The Buzzard-Biddy’s Robe)
had an equally easy win m the 12-
furlongs Sydney Handicap. Last all
the way to the turn, Yamboon
stretched out in the straight, soon
gathered in the mediocre opposition,
and won going away from Halgero
and Fresteem. Other impressive win-
ners on Ladies’ Day all scored over
the mile journey. Oversight (W.
Cook) made amends for his narrow
defeat in the Epsom by equally
narrowly winning the Suburban
Handicap; Karangi took the Mem-
bers’ Handicap, and Putoko had a
narrow edge on Niaranga in the
Flight Stakes for three-year-old fillies.
With the two, or rather four. Cups
coming up in Melbourne, principal
interest in the final day of the spring
meeting lay in the outcome of the
two-miles Randwick Plate and the
13-furlongs Waverley Handicap.
Evidently very confident in his
mount’s superiority as a stayer,
Munro attempted to ride Sir Falcon
as he had so often ridden Russia
to victory in similar events —lead them
along, spurt away from them, have a
breather while they come up to you
again, repeat the dose a few times
and then leave them standing in the
straight. However, the Sydney Cup
winner was not suited by such tactics.
Delta tackled him in the straight,
went clear at the distance and ran
on to a good win, with Thracian Lad
third. A particularly good Cup trial
on the part of Sir Falcon, who is
sure to be differently ridden in the
big race. Delta is to give the Cups
a miss and concentrate on w.-f.-a.
races.
Dark Marne suggested that he may
be not yet a spent force by thoroughly
outclassing the admittedly-not-very-
classy opposition in the Waverley
Handicap. He won running away
from High Ideals and Yamboon. If
really back to form, Dark Marne,
for a horse who won a Sydney Cup
with 8.3 and was beaten a nose in
the Melbourne Cup with 8.11, is
reasonably in the Cup this year with
8.12.
The Canonbury and Widden Stakes
adequately fulfilled their purpose as
consolation prizes for the Breeders’
Plate and Gimcrack Stakes, respec-
tively. Breeders’ Plate runner-up
Fengari took the Canonbury, and the
Widden went to White Lightning,
who had run third in the Gimcrack.
Confirming his recently excellent
form in Queensland, High Jip won
the 6-furlongs Chester Handicap
under a plaster of 9.12; Aristocrat
was a trifle lucky to down Panama
in the Clibborn Handicap; and
Chitral won the Final Handicap.
* * * *
In referring last week to the bad
fall which marred the running of the
Epsom it was stated here that “None
of the boys was seriously hurt.” The
statement was made on the seemingly
safe ground that only one rider,
apprentice T. Mullane, was taken to
hospital and he was discharged
within a couple of hours. However,
“Hurry up and bowl him, Billy, or We'll be late
for the dance”
X-rays taken last week revealed that
the unfortunate lad’s spine was frac-
tured in six places.
* * * *
Punters who had taken Cup doubles
with Comic Court breathed a little
easier when the champion proved
himself still deserving of that title in
Saturday’s £2OOO w.-f.-a. Turnbull
Stakes at Flemington; two successive
defeats at w.-f.-a. had had his sup-
porters a shade anxious. Moving
up to take the lead from the Queens-
land visitor Spellman at the turn,
Comic Court had to fight every inch
of the final furlong to hold off Iron
Duke’s challenge; he won by a neck,
with Spellman a promising third.
Also carrying £2OOO prizemoney,
the Edward Manifold Stakes went to
the Hua filly Slick Chick, who has
pretty well established herself as the
best of the three-year-old fillies out-
side of True Course. Slick Chick
won by two lengths from the Dhoti
filly Apricot, with the complete out-
sider Kalthien a surprisingly good
third.
Such of the Derby colts as have
not been north for the AJ.C. classic
contested the 10-furlongs October
Handicap, which was won narrowly
by Midway, a full-brother to last
year’s Victoria Derby winner Delta.
Midway did the job in real Derby
fashion, coming from well back to
beat Lucky Mascot by a neck.
Otherwise the chief interest of the
Flemington meeting lay in the first
appearance of a selection of the new
season’s t,wo-year-olds in divisions of
the Maribyrnong Trial Stakes (4jf.).
Progeny of Melbourne Cup .inner
Sirius have not been noted for early
speed, but Varemba (Sirius-Delvino)
proved an exception with a go-to-
whoa win in the Maribyrnong for
fillies. She beat Vanaoara and
Cheosan, respectively daughters of
Midstream and A 1 Wassat. In the
Trial for colts, Diplomacy accounted
for Royal Consort and Bahadur,
their sires being Despatch Case, High
Title and Dhoti.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) ;
Youthful Stakes: Highlea, 1;
Osborne, 2; Midtide, 3. Novice:
Final Act, 1; Oceanus, 2; Fresteem,
3. George Herdsman Stakes: Warrah
King, 1; Brazier, 2; Penmore, 3.
City Tattersall’s Gold Cup: Hurry
Up, 1; Freedom, 2; Sarille Row, 3.
Members’ Handicap; Panama, 1;
Quarter Deck, 2; Auld Acquaintance,
3. Club Welter: Damascene, 1;
Pyramid, 2; My Request, 3.
* * * *
In a letter to the Editor of London
“Times” recently one correspondent
touched the core of a very important
difference between Australian and
English cricket;
“The ‘revolutionary’ suggestion in
your recent leading article —that
cricket in this country would be better
if confined to one-day matches —is
in fact (and has been for many years)
the order of the day in Australia.
Only the comparatively few Sheffield
Shield matches are the exception. The
result is that all other games are
club matches, which start at midday
on Saturdays and are played out on
following Saturdays, again starting at
midday. Thus, there are no purely
professional cricketers who must earn
their living at the game; and freer
cricket, such as England knew when
every county played more amateurs
than professionals, is the outcome.
“What is more important still,
promising schoolboy players appear
at the big grounds, such as Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Adelaide, with
the great players of the day, and learn
to play in ‘biv cricket.’ ,
at a St.,j. ■. age thar
oe possitfle here. Mr. Vernon Hans-
ford, now the secretary of the Mel-
bourne Cricket Club, told me last
year that this is one of the main
reasons why young Australians reach
top class so quickly. I can well
believe it, having watched a lad of
17 make 75, with Bassett at the other
end making a century, before 8000
people. Anyone who has watched
some of our ‘first-class’ sides this
year must feel, as I do, that we have
much to learn from all this.”
* * * *
Mining districts seem to produce
a fair brand of athlete. Marjorie
Jackson, hailing from Lithgow
(N.S.W.), is one case in point, and
now Newcastle seems to have un-
earthed a potential Olympic rep. in
schoolboy Kevin Gosper. Represent-
ing Newcastle High at the Combined
High Schools sports in Sydney re-
cently, Gosper bagged the 100yds. (in
10.35ec.), 220yds. (22.65ec.), 440yds.
(51.45ec.), 120yds. hurdles (15.65ec.)
and the long jump with an effort of
21ft. l|in. A fine effort, though
surely too strenuous a programme for
any athlete. In the State All-Schools
championships on Saturday Gosper
wisely confined himself to three
events, and took the 100yds. in
10.45ec., the 220yds. in 22.1 sec. and
the long jump with 21ft. 6iin.
* * * *
Wily experience and youthful im-
petuosity were matched at Leichhardt
last week when 28-years-old Joe
Grant tackled the much younger Billy
Lord. However, despite the addi-
tional advantage of a fair pull in the
weights (10.61- against 10.1), young
William was no match for the crafty
Joe. Landing lefts in about every
manner known to pugilistic science.
Grant won the first five rounds by
miles, did rather better than hold his
own in the remainder of the bout,
and ran out a clear winner on points.


100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
s
mm
• . <
v-
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd
Reg'd Office & Works, Blackwail Pt. Road, Five Dock.
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
MELBOURNE SHOW CATTLE.
“Mr.”: Beef and dairy
classes exhibits this year were
below the standard of the past
two years, though there were
some outstanding individuals.
Restricted R.A.S. accommoda-
tion again limited entries, which,
for all breeds and classes, totalled
1841 against 2023 in 1949.
The Jersey quality was down
on past years, particularly
among the younger stock. The
bull ribbon went to Belgonia
Peggy ISth’s Aim, a four -year-
old with nice lines and the
attractive Belgonia coloring.
Bred at Tongala by P. J.
Maloney, he is by the successful
importation Aim High, from
Belgonia Peggy 18th. Also with
Belgonia blood, Bermersyde
Dainty’s Souvenir was in re-
serve. The Jersey cow cham-
pionship went to the senior
four-year-old Banyule Mermaid,
from Banyule Stud. J. Ander-
son and Sons’ Kingsvale Linda
131st filled reserve position.
Australian Illawarra Short-
horn entries were fewer, but the
quality was better. The male
blue was notched by Nagirroc
Winston, a nice red with a little
white, owned by F. D. Spottis-
wood and bred by J. L. Corri-
gan. Sedgmoor Thral, bred and
shown by B. and Y. Sedgwick,
took the reserve. The female
section was headed by G. Tand-
berg and Son’s Brocka Becky
21st, a nicely-proportioned roan
by Parkview Jellicoe. This cow
was Government herd - test
champion this year, producing
7831 b. of butterfat from
15,3661 b. of milk. Reserve was
taken by Lenola Lovely, bred
and exhibited by J. L. Wilson
on Kooweerup swamp.
Ayrshires had fewer outstand-
ing animals, but generally were
a satisfactory lot. A. Facey and
Son’s Glengowrie Flash Baron,
a nicely-marked brown-and-
white five-year-old, repeated his
last year’s success at Melbourne
and Sydney Shows. The reserve
went to another with Glen-
aowrie blood, A. E. Spiers and
Sons’ Blair Athol Jean’s Baron,
a brown-and-white bred by the
exhibitors. This bull was sired
by Glengowrie Flash Baron,
winner at the 1946, 1947 and
1948 Melbourne Shows and also
the 1948 Adelaide and Sydney
Shows. The cow champion of
the breed was Oakbank Echo
Glen, owned and shown by Mc-
Nab Bros., Tullamarine (Vic.).
W. X. and S. G. Muhlebach’s
Retreat Penelope took the re-
serve.
Guernseys made an attractive
showing, meeting with the com-
mendation of the Jersey Islander
judge, John Carrington. In the
male section a close tussle ended
in a narrow victory for Dr. F.
G. Stephens’s Vermont Ideal, an
attractive v '-ungster sired by
Vermont Benefactor and bred
by the exhibitor. The five-year-
old Yarraview Illustrious
Second, bred and exhibited by
the Lilydale studmaster. Cap-
tain A. E. T. Payne, was in re-
serve. The cow championship
was won by another Payne ex-
hibit, Yarraview Rouen, with
C. W. Scott’s Green Hills Dawn
in reserve.
Friesians fell away slightly in
quality and numbers. The
nicely - set-up four - year - old,
Ravenswood Percy, took the
blue sash. A son of Victoria
Bandmaster, this bull was bred
by J. Wills and Sons and exhi-
bited by Russell Smith. Reserve
position was occupied by a bull
in the same class, T. D.
Kennedy’s Blossom Park Im-
prover. Salesian College, with
Rupertswood Homestead Olga
Seventh, gained the honors in
the female section, with G. S.
Cowan’s Upper Lappan Black
Melba in reserve.
Dual-purpose Breeds.
Red Poll numbers were up by
•20 per cent. A fine lot, the reds
were headed by the nicely-bal-
anced bull Woodburn Imp.,
bred at Kilmore and exhibited
by T. E. N. Payne. Plymouth
Kent (W. G. J. Beer and Sons)
occupied reserve position. Buln
Gherin Tiddliewinks, in the
Beaufort stud of A. R. Beggs,
won the female blue ribbon.
Calved 1/7/’46 and bred by the
exhibitor, this cow, sired by
Niawanda Radio, gave the judge
no doubtful moments. In re-
serve was a five-year-old cow,
Plymouth Win Again, bred and
exhibited by the owners of the
reserve bull.
Throughout the day the Dairy
Shorthorns were never without
admirers. A nice red with a
little white, the imported
Churchill Paradox 20th (Atkin-
son Bros., Swan Hill) took male
honors in the breed, with
another red, P. N. Hickey’s
Drumneil lan Third, in reserve.
Honors in the female section
went to Morven Ruby 56th,
bred at Bacchus Marsh by the
exhibitors, Kerr Bros. The
Atkinsons followed their suc-
cess in the bull section with a
near win by Willow Park
Countess 71st. A nice roan, this
heifer is by the importation
Scottsgrove Hero 15th.
Beef Cattle.
Though Aberdeen - Angus
numbers were down 20 per cent.,
the blacks made an attractive
showing with practically no tail.
The bull championship went to
Terinallum Colonel, owned and
bred by Terinallum Pastoral
Co., and sired by the New Zea-
land bull Black Idol of Manga-
toro. This young animal (c.
14/3/’49) had his share of the
best characteristics of the breed
—hindquarters deep and full,
thighs thick and muscular, back
broad and straight from crop to
tail-head, strong in the loin—
overall showing a pleasing com-
pactness. Terinallum Cavalier
gave the stud its second success
in the male section, and the
same co. took the female re-
serve with Terinallum Tura
4th, a daughter of the male
champion’s N.Z. sire. The cow
championship went to Narran-
gullen Geranium, a rising three-
year-old from the estate of G.
T. Read and sired by Narran-
gullen Boxer.
Horned Herefords were
fewer, the breed fielding the
small total of 56 head (a 30 per
cent, drop on 1949). Dominat-
ing the prize-winners were three
sons of Vern Milton, from J. R.
Allen’s South Boorook Stud,
Mortlake. The 18-month-old
South Boorook England fol-
lowed his Sydney Show second
by winning the male champion-
ship here. The same stud also
took the male reserve with a
classy yearling in S. B. Boston,
who pushed his half-brother
closely in the final judging. Golf
Hill was again prominent,
dominating the female section.
“This WOULD happen on a Sunday mornin' when We
Wanted t’ sleep in."
The Cobban Acklam heifer
Golf Hill Pearly Gates 44th
took both junior and senior
championships, her 18-month-
old team-mate, Golf Hill
Marinda 103rd, in reserve.
A beautiful red in 21-month-
old Kelso Ensign took male
honors among the Shorthorns.
Exhibited by Alberni Bros.,
Ferntree Gully, and bred by G.
Starritt and Son, this young bull
was sired by Coonong Noble-
man. C. P. Fairbairn’s Woo-
margarma Objective in reserve
was successful also in win-
ning the breed junior male
championship.
Pig-management.
“Rooster”; For efficient pro-
duction and profitable returns
consider the size of the litters,
the growth - rate of pigs,
economical food conversion and
the quality of carcasses.
Successes of individual pig-
farmers vary according to the
efficiency of their management.
Overfeeding with costly food-
stuffs doesn’t pay ; some farmers
make more money than others
by using less food for each 11b.
of pig-meat they produce and by
getting a higher price per lb. for
that meat. An ample supply of
food for the number of pigs kept
can be obtained by conserving
some of the grain crop, and by
sensible pasturing. Pigs thrive
best on a mixed diet, such as
milk, grain, pasture or hay.
Buying store pigs of doubtful
quality at ceiling prices must
surely have originated the saying
“buying a pig in a poke.” It’s
wiser to breed and grow your
own from breeding stock of
known or approved productive
capacity. As a general rule the
large-framed type of boars and
sows produce the best baconers,
but the record of achievement
should be the ruling factor. Feed
the sows so as to have them
gaining in condition when
mated, until such time as a fairly
fat condition has been reached,
then retain this condition by
restricting the diet. Sows should
be just fat enough, but not too
fat, at farrowing-time.
Once farrowing has taken
place the sows should be given
as much food as they can eat to
encourage an adequate milk-
supply. After three weeks the
sucking-pigs can eat from a
separate trough until they are
weaned.
Keep sows with litters, and
young pigs under four months
of age in clean pens with im-
pervious floors or on fresh pas-
ture that has not been heavily
stocked with pigs. This reduces
the risk of worm-infestation.
After weaning, the young pigs
need to be given all the food
they can eat, until they reach
the stage of fatness required on
the market.
Beef-cattle Breeding.
“Oxo”; Great changes in
methods of improving quality of
beef-cattle are predicted by V.
A. Rice in the 27th annual herd-
bull edition of the “American
Hereford Journal.”
Rice opines that the greatest
progress in breeding science
during the first half of the cen-
tury was the discovery that ani-
mals did not necessarily breed
as they looked. A millstone still
around the collective necks of
breeders is the ease with which
environmental effects masquer-
ade as those caused by inherit-
ance. When a breeder gets
variation in the right direction
he still has to answer the ques-
tion of whether it was caused
by environment or heredity, be-
cause only the hereditary varia-
tions are capable of being trans-
mitted.
Two-thirds of animals, says
Rice, do not vary from the
average by more than 10 per
cent.; about one-sixth are well
below average, leaving an
“upper sixth” from which to
select the source of breed-im-
provement. Because many of
these “upper-sixth” animals are
better because of environment,
the supply of animals capable
of transmitting the desirable
variation to their offspring is
further reduced in numbers.
For this reason, Rice thinks
artificial insemination is “the
most potent tool placed in the
hands of breeders during the first
part of this century,” and he
predicts greater extension of this
principle to include transplanta-
tion of fertile ova from desir-
able cows to foster-mothers,
thereby enabling breeders to get
greater results from the females
in the “upper sixth.”
Rice also thinks America will
develop inbred strains so that
when they want certain quali-
ties in their herds they will go
to certain places, like taking a
prescription to a chemist’s, and
he visualises changes along the
lines of artificial insemination,
and possibly through superovu-
lation and transplantation of
tiny embryos in the females,
from the “upper sixth” of herds,
as necessary to speed up greater
efficiency in beef-cattle produc-
tion and carcass quality.
Stability of breeding opera-
tions, Rice emphasises, depends
upon the keeping of actual
records, and he calls for more
reliance on records and less on
memories and prejudices.
Sugar Pests.
“Plane Creek”: A member of
the Mackay (N.Q.) Experiment
Station has warned that wife-
worms are likely to be bad this
spring. These pests pierce the
“eyes” of planted cane-setts, and,
of course, prevent germination.
Benzene hexachloride, 20 per
cent., at the rate of 101 b. to the
acre is recommended. This dust
is sure death to wireworms, and
it mixes readily with fertiliser,
which, on most farms, is drilled
in with the plants.
At present treatment with
B.H.C. costs around about
12s. 6d. per acre. Next year the
dust may be cheaper. It will be
to the advantage of all cane-
growers in the wetter parts to
take anti-wireworm measures,
since losses of plant material
through adverse soil and climatic
conditions promise to be unduly
high.
Using Rabbitskins.
“Bat”: Beautiful rugs can be
made from rabbitskins. All
yellow or black skins are most
attractive, and a large checked
design would bring a high price.
Close top-sewing of the dressed
skins is necessary when squared.
The pelts are first covered
with a thin mixture of bran and
water for 24 hours, then washed


UB
A
'
GUARANTEE It NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
\ »
iA ... '«:<
ZS'
I i
fds
in oIS directions
with
QUIRK'S
OSCILLATING
ELECTRIC FAN
Operating direct from your lighting plant,
this fan directs a cooling breeze to every
corner of your room. Beautifully finished,
it is silent in operation and is supplied in
32, 50, 110 and 240 volt models. Speed
can be adjusted to suit requirements.
The following appliances, for city and country homes, are
available from Quirk's stocks: Lighting Fixtures, Radios
and Radiograms, Vacuum Cleaners, Floor Polishers, Wash-
ing Machines, Dish Washers, Fans, Kettles, Toasters,
Food and Drink Mixers, Irons, Sirens, Electric Razors.
CONTACT YOUR LOCAL DEALER FOR SUPPLIES OR WRITE TO:
QUIRK’S VICTORY LIGHT CO.
229 Castlereogh St., Sydney . . Phone M 3114
have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
£l3/4/0
fds
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece. Several
models to choose
from.
• Also
Telescopic
Prismatic
Binoculars,
S i (j h t s,
Compasses.
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
Price includes tax.
f
dsf
42 HUNTER STREET. S/DN'£Y
AND SONS
PTY. LTD
HOW TO SINK A TANK
WITH OUVEP- BRITSTAND
t**-
m
m
i ■
m
m
m
t .
:
■
3W*
M
m
m
il I
• Construction starts of a 33,000 “yarder.” The Oliver tractor at left hauls
a 5-tyne ‘Britstand’ Super-Rooter. At right the Oliver ‘FDE’ removes
the topsoil with a ‘Britstand’ Cl 4 Scraper.
mm?,' ; **'£>> - «
•-
f: *>■■ ■
‘ *vj
• Under way. The “FDE” hauls the loaded Cl 4 Scraper up the corner of
the batter. This unit has consistently averaged 1000 cu. yds. excavated
per drum of fuel, in tank sinking.
I
t
. ■
>4
V
$ A finished Tank. Capacities vary greatly from 2000 yds. (finished
in to 3 working days with one equipment combination) to 65,000
yds. (completed by the Oliver-Britstand team in 24 working days).
■
;p3S
It
OLIVER MODEL ‘DDK’
T-HE OEIVEB-BBIXSTAND
* team of tractors and equip-
ment is a leader in the field
of tank sinking and water
conservation. Mr. Max. Burns
of Clermont (Q) —probably
Australia’s biggest tank sinker
says: “In the far outback
it’s essential to have the
very best ... I have three
Oliver TDEs’ all Britstand
equipped—and will be buying
many more.” Ask your Oliver
Distributor about the full
OUVEB-BBIXSXAND range.
OLIVER TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS AND
BRITSTAND EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
Q.:
X.S.W.i
VIC. &
S.A.:
V.A.:
X.Z.:
TAS. s
DISTRIBUTORS
U.K. and Dominion Motors, 365-379 Wickham Street,
Brisbane.
Britstand Distributors Limited, 56-61 Carder ers Road,
Mascot, Sydney.
Queen’s Bridge Motor & Engineering Company, Pty.
Ltd., 31-43 Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne, 5.C.4.
Waymouth Motor Company Ltd., 43 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
Skipper Bailey Motor Company Ltd., 900 Hay Street,
Perth.
Frederic W. Smith Limited, Nathan’s Buildings, Grey
Street, Wellington, C.l.
Send Coupon for FREE Booklet!
Oliver-Britstand Distributors
BOX 4726, G.P.O.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Please send me free booklet on Oliver
Tractors and Brit stand Equipment.
(bhitstawd)
wm
NAME
ADDRESS
well and scraped. Next dissolve
11b. of alum and -11 b. of salt in
one gallon of hot water. Place
the skins in the solution while
still warm and soak for another
24 hours. Then dry them
partially by rubbing and pres-
sing and immerse them in a bath
of warm water and oatmeal like
very thin gruel. Leave them in
the bath for a further 24 hours,
partially dry them in the shade
and then rub gently till quite
dry.
The skins will be white and
soft and easily worked into gar-
ments or rugs when neatly
joined. Brush and gently comb
the fur when the job is done.
Gas and Cream.
“Sarina”; Power - gas and
cream-yeast will be produced at
the A.N.P.A. distillery from next
year. Operating at Sarina
(N.Q.) over a number of years,
the plant has distilled millions
of gallons of power-alcohol from
moiasses drawn from the sugar-
mills of Mackay district.
Production of the
important gas and yeast will
eliminate the problem of dispos-
ing of waste material remaining
after manufacture. At present
much of this waste is pumped
into coastal swamps, but some of
it is used by canefarmers as a
useful manure for old land.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sundowner”: Detusk pigs
.vhile they’re young, as the
operation can then be done
amply. Place a rope noose well
back over the upper jaw and tie
to a firm post. Bolt-cutters are
i satisfactory cutting implement,
but hacksaw may be used if a
oiece of wood is employed to gag
the animal from biting the saw.
“Wilco”; The Epicure or
Kentucky Wonder climbing
rrench beans are far more pro-
lific than any of the dwarf
varieties. If a good high netting-
fence cannot be provided, they
will ramble over the side of a
shed, a few seeds going a very
long way. A dressing of super,
added to the soil before the seed
is sown will always improve the
crop; plenty of water is neces-
sary.
“Billjim”: When sugar-beet is
fed to poultry split it lengthwise
and stick on nails on the wall at
about 18in. from the floor.
Fowls can then pick at the roots
without fouling them or tramp-
ing on them. Beet retains its
food-value if sheltered from the
wet.
“Jaci”: Keep young turkeys
warm and dry and feed them
little and often. No feed is re-
quired for a couple of days,
when bran or bran-and-fine-oat-
meal should be given. Clean
water and shellgrit are first
necessities, and chopped hard-
boiled egg gives stamina during
the dangerous first week of life.
A crumbly mash of 60 parts
pollard, 35 bran, four bonemeal
and one of salt mixed with hot
milk should be prepared freshly
every two hours for 10 or 12
days, then the period should be
gradually increased.
“Country Woman”: If there
is limestone on the farm it isn’t
necessary to buy shellgrit for
poultry. Break the stone and
scatter it in the run. In the
Victorian Mallee, where there
are limestone ridges, shellgrit is
unknown. Fowls scratch up
their own grit, and soft-shelled
eggs are rare.
“Rooster”: When it’s neces-
sary to give animals medicine
see that it’s free from nauseat-
ing taste or smell and irritant
action on the mouth. Powders
are best given sprinkled on the
feed or dissolved in water. Dis-
solve in water before sprinkling
on the feed, so that there’s no
chance of the animal rejecting
it. Chalk, charcoal, salt, aniseed,
etc., can all be given in this way.
“Bill C”: I’m after The
Bulletin sub.’s scalp since h : s
blue pencil made me say I’m
trapping rabbits and wallabies
around my cane (B. 16 /8 / ’5O).
I’m knocking over wallabies all
right, but thank goodness the
only rabbits we see here in
North Queensland are hung up
for sale in delicatessens.


'-JM '*k
&
/Z
KC
More Pleasure
from Mot
i
/"CORRECT tyre pressures mean more
V-' than easier riding. They mean safety,
better control, less wear on tyres.
So check your tyre pressures regularly
with the accurate Kismet Tyre Gauge. . .
and when they need more air do the job
in half the time with a Kismet Foot Pump
or Renrut “Quad” Hand Pump. The
unique two-cylinder Supercharger action
makes every stroke unbelievably easy and
at full volume.
KISMET
epuyutum/ o/c/atadei.
■
A
fk
Manufactured by
WILLIAM TURNER (Kismet)
LTD., Sheffield, England.
Agent in Australia :
MR. E. G. JONES,
43-49 Hardware St., Melb., C. 1.,
G.P.O. Box 71.
CLOSE WORK NEEDS
LOW SURFACE BRIGHTNESS, YET .
HIGH LEVEL HLUMINAim
*
m
m
m
Wmmmm
H
mm
m
«...
*
m
mm
m
'
mm
£aHe CtjeJ, £peed Work mth
CLAUDE COLD CATHODE
FLUORESCENT
LIGHTING
NEON
DISPLAYS
PORCELAIN
ENAMEL
The human eye is industry’s
most critical control device. Good
seeing conditions are, therefore,
just as fundamental to good
work as good tools, machines and
equipment.
To-day, Claude Cold Cathode
Fluorescent Lighting is regarded
by progressive management as a
production tool designed to pro-
mote product quality as well as
rate of output.
For restful vision, the eye needs
low surface brightness at normal
vision levels . . . even light distri-
bution with absence of shadows
and glare ... a comfortable detail-
revealing illumination level on all
working planes with good colour
discrimination.
There are other tangible benefits,
too lower lighting costs, low
maintenance. Your nearest Claude
office will be happy to tell you the
full story and give details of the
Claude Rental Plan, which avoids
necessity of incurring capital
expenditure.
CLAUDE
PON LIMITED
SYDNEY - NEWCASTLE - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH - HOBART - LAUNC STON
From schooldays to adult
career you are right for life
with a “Swan” fountain pen.
Writing is effortless with
the handsome, precision-
built “Swan.” The hard-
wearing gold nib preserves
the distinctive character of
your hand. For personal
use or presentation there
is no finer pen you are
right for life with a “Swan.”
sw
N
n
PEIS
37/3 to 88/9 from all
jewellers, stationers
and stores.
MABIE, TODD & GO.
(AUST.) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
5/120
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6i YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
If any illustration in
“THE BULLETIN” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for
the original.
timber on to the plain. He was
carrying an axe over his
shoulder and a billy in one hand,
Stan was broadly built and
yet spare. He was older than
his wife, his hair was greying
and he said many things with a
half-laugh. He and his wife
seemed to have accepted each
other long ago. He was wash-
ing on the back veranda and
speaking through into the room
to Lawrence. Presently he came
in and sat down to the table,
The children were quiet and
round-eyed, sitting at the far side
of the table beyond the light of
the lamp. Stan now and again
fed the cat which sat on the arm
of his chair. He was telling
Lawrence, in reply to some
questions about work, that he
thought Lawrence could get
something easier to do than cut-
ting wood, the work was not too
good as winter came on, there
was too much rain and snow
up here in the mountains.
The children, still subdued
and dressed for bed, had been
in to say goodnight. Stan and
Mrs. Flaxman, Frances and
Lawrence sat round the fire talk-
ing. There was a knock at the
back door, and Jim from the
hotel came in. Lawrence was
surprised, but the two men
seemed to be on good terms,
Jim had brought a couple of
bottles of ale, and Stan went into
the kitchen for some glasses and
an opener. To Lawrence it
seemed apparent that Jim was
Mrs. Flaxman’s lover. It was
expressed in the way he rolled
a cigarette and handed it to her.
Lawrence sat wondering if
Stan knew of this and accepted
it. He wondered if this woman
could need and keep two men
like this: Stan, the husband, with
a graveness and gentleness in
him, the father to the children ;
and Jim, dark and compact,
younger, with a kind of fierce-
ness in him: her lover. Perhaps
these people, living in the moun-
tains, needed this companion-
ship : the family sitting round
the table at their meal, the
children quiet in the shadow be-
yond the lamplight, this man
and his wife who were not
sufficient for each other, and
Jim, incomplete and restless at
bottom, coming out of the night
to the comfort and warmth of
that room.
| AWRENCE and Frances
*—- were leaving in the morn-
ing, and Stan, in his thoughtful
way, said that he had better say
goodbye to them that night, as
he had to get up early in the
morning. Frances and Lawrence
were very comfortable in a shed
close to the house, and Lawrence
awoke from deep sleep and
heard Stan clumping about the
house before it was light. When
Lawrence awoke again it was
long past sunrise. Outside every-
thing appeared in a green light;
the high timber shading the
plain from the low sun; the
lopped, thick-leafed gum-tree
over one side of the shack and
beyond the gleam of the deep,
swiftly-flowing river through the
far trees.
Lawrence was still wondering
about this woman with the quiet,
swift beauty, who, he knew,
could be so impetuous, and for
whom kindness and gentleness
were not sufficient. She was get-
ting breakfast ready when
Lawrence entered on to the
veranda. She laughed at him
for sleeping so late, and got him
the tin basin to wash in. He
stood drying himself in the fresh
morning air, and then offered to
go over the river for some water.
“I’d better come with you and
show you where to get it,” Mrs.
Flaxman said.
“Right-oh,” said Lawrence,
and brought the two empty
kerosene-tins.
A path went slanting down the
bank to the water. It was deep,
and near the bank the water
was clear and still; some
weeds trailed and swayed from
the bank at the influence of the
current that swept by a few
yards out. He dipped a bucket
into the deep, clear water and
hauled it out.
“I nearly fell in here once,”
said Mrs. Flaxman. “I caught
my foot in a root and fell down
near the edge there and I can’t
swim.”
She was laughing. Lawrence
looked up. She was laughing
down at him. She stood on the
bank, dark and slight against
the trees. He felt her appeal
like the pull of the silent, swift
river, so that he answered “I’ve
no doubt I’d manage to save
you if you did fall in.”
AT breakfast Mrs. Flaxman
said that there was no need
for them to go for a day or two
unless they wanted to. But
Lawrence said that they had
better keep to their intention
and start while the morning was
cool.
When the couple had got their
packs and were ready to go they
were sorry. Mrs. Flaxman, from
her small store of provisions,
brought them a jar of jam, a
loaf of bread she had baked and
some eggs. Frances and
Lawrence said they would write,
and were vehement in their
promises to come back again.
They looked back. Mrs. Flax-
man stood by the side of the
shack with the three children
waving goodbye.
“I think they are the kindest
people we’ve ever met,” said
Frances.
The couple looked back again
and waved, and then the trees
had cut off the shack, the
woman and the three children
from their sight.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Isutitutions throughout Australia
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
EULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
'JACKSOIS A?
OSUIJJVAx
t-. mm a 3
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Telegrams and Cables
*IACKBUL,” BRISBANE
Why I Believe
in God
As a young
student, Dr. A. J. Cro&Vn
was an unbeliever. He ce
sidered the human body no
more than a complex machine
and he couldn’t find an
immortal soul in any autopsy.
In October Reader’s
Digest, the now-famous
author reveals how experi-
ence and the strong faith
of others finally brought him
to the firm belief that there
IS a God.
Read this absorbing and
spirit-refreshing article. It’s
one of 30 articles of lasting
interest, condensed from
leading magazines, current
books. Get your October
Reader’s Digest today. One
shilling and sixpence. All
newsagents and bookstalls.
MBS
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
7 a*ricyud
x^yvce
- /m
Sixth
i
ii l |
i i
Many thousands of Australians who honestly believe that they are good citizens
are at this very moment behaving like the ostrich, who buries his head in the
sand when danger approaches, or the rabbit, who scuttles into his own burrow,
or the cunning jackal that steals from other animals.
Are you running away from the facts of our national peril? Are you living in
your own comfortable burrow, hoping that everything will come right without
any effort on your part? Are you in effect a Sixth Columnist working for
Australia’s foreign enemies, through your complacency, “go-slow” tactics, con-
centration on unlimited profits, or senseless spending on unessentials?
It is not only what you do that brands you as a Sixth Columnist it is what
you don’t do, what you leave to the other fellow. If you let better men and
women carry you, you are helping to spread a paralysis that threatens to
cripple our activities and our strength as a nation at a time when Australia needs
the resolute loyalty and the honest work of every man and woman.
The vital need to make Australia strong .
There are only 8,000,000 Australians. Yet we few must build up Australia’s
strength so that if war breaks out we can survive as a free people, in co-operation
with other freedom-loving nations, and go on to make Australia the great nation
we believe she can be. Every single one of us must work and strive to the utmost
of our strength to get through the crisis of these years to that safe and richer
future.
Three tasks we must begin now
1. We must build up our defence
forces, on land and sea and in the
air.
2. We must step up production of
essential goods —to arm and equip
our increased forces and to overcome
inflation by restoring the purchasing
power of our money.
3. We must carry out our plans of
national development —of housing,
migration, power even while we
redouble our efforts at production
and step up our defence preparations
. . . and this must be done without
impairing the higher standard of
living and personal security which
are the right of every Australian.
What we do NOW
will shape Australia's
fate and future
How YOU can help ...
FIRST These tasks mean more work for all of
us, for each one of us. If you shirk or go slow
you hold us all back. No one else can do your
share.
SECOND —We must work together. Industrial
disputes will cost us more than pay or profits
they may cost us our freedom. Greedy employers
or greedy employees can wreck our future. We
must co-operate on every level in every industry.
THIRD —Everyone who is able should join one
or other of the defence services, either full time
or part time. If war comes, it may reach Aus-
tralia without warning. We must be ready, armed
and trained to meet agression from wherever it
may come.
Full information on openings in all three
services may be obtained by calling at or
writing to the Defence Forces Information
Bureau: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Launceston.
Open: Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.|
Saturday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sunday, 2 pan.
to 5 p.m.
Issued by the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia.
DR10.113.90
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy The Bulletin Reciter and
The Bulletin Book of Humorous
Verse and Recitations. —4926.
To buy books or pamphlets dealing
with Victorian railways; or copies of
“The Victorian Railways Magazine.”
—4925.
Information Sought.
Recipe for loquat jam ?
This fruit is so insipid that it must
be spiced with lemon juice, sliced
lemons, ground ginger or whole
ginger; use these to taste. Wipe the
fruit, remove calyces, slice open and
remove stones. Boil gently until soft
in enough water to prevent burning,
then add one small cup sugar to every
large cup of pulp and boil quickly
until it jells on a saucer. Fill into
jars and cover when cold with melted
paraffin and tie down.
* * * *
How to waterproof canvas and
unbleached calico at home?
Complete waterproofing is almost
impossible by home methods; this is
a standard showerproof formula.
Shrink the material in cold water for
24 hours, rinse in several waters and
hang out to dry without wringing, to
avoid creasing. Make up the proofing
mixture in the proportions of one
pint raw linseed oil and one table-
spoon copal varnish, stirring well.
Heat in a waterjacket and apply to
the cloth warm with a brush. Hang
out to dry in the shade. Apply a
second coat if necessary. A teaspoon
of powdered alum to each pint is
said to counteract stickiness.
* * * *
When is it correct to use “due to”
and when “owing to,” meaning
“because of” ?
“Due to” can only be used when it
’.efers directly to a noun. In “The
accident was due to carelessness,”
“due to” is adjectival, attached to
the noun “accident.” But mw the
result of carelessness would be better.
“Owing to” could have been used
there, too. But when the usage is
adverbial, such as in “He broke his
leg owing to my carelessness,” “due
to” would be definitely incorrect.
“Owing to” must be used when it
refers to the idea expressed in the
sentence. His leg is not caused by my
carelessness, in the above instance,
but the fact of breaking his leg. “Due
to” and “owing to” are often best
avoided.
* * * *
How arc trains protected on single
lines where there is traffic in both
directions ?
A token system is used, with instru-
ments at either end of the section
which are electrically interlocked so
that only one token can be out at
one time. The driver must not leave
a block station without a token, and
whilst in possession of the token has
absolute security against opposing or
following train movement until the
train has passed through the section
to the next block station.
* =4= * *
Reason for the large increase in the
number of prawns netted in N.S.W.
waters last year?
The increase was to a great extent
because of the exploitation of the
offshore prawn fishery, which has
developed since prawns were located in
ihe Stockton Bight (Newcastle) during
the summer of 1947-48. All coastal
Inspectors of Fisheries were apprised
of the characteristics of this fishery
and were instructed to encourage
fishermen to search for prawns in
similar situations on other parts of
the coast. Soon grounds were dis-
covered off Evans Head and off the
Richmond, Clarence and Macleay
Rivers. It is anticipated that there
are a number of other grounds to be
discovered near the mouths of rivers
where large quantities go to sea, such
as off Wallis Lake and Manning River.
* * *
What is a fata Morgana?
It is the Italian name for a curious
kind of mirage frequently observed
in the Straits of Messina, and so
called because it is supposed to be
caused by the fairy (fata) Morgana of
the Arthurian legends. An observer
on the shore frequently sees men,
ships or houses, sometimes in the air,
sometimes in the water, the same
object frequently having two images,
one inverted. The cause is the same
as that of the desert mirage.
* * * *
(1) What is the datum for measur-
ing rail heights in N. S. Wales? (2)
Where is the elevation of a railway-
station measured? (3) What is the
greatest altitude reached on N.S.W.
railways ?
(1) A plug set in the northern wall
of the Lands Office, Sydney, which
is 28ft. Il+in. above mean sea-level.
(2) At the top of the rails in the
middle of the platform. (3) At a
point about one mile south of Ben
Lomond railway-station, where the
altitude is 4517 ft.
Brief Answers.
J.M.: Oswald Pryor’s Cornish Pasty
is obtainable from the Argonaut
Bookshop, 224 North-terrace, Adel-
aide; price 2s R.J.P.: Jack Demp-
won world’s heavyweight cham-
pionship from Jess Willard (kayoing
him in three rounds) at Toledo, Ohio,
on July, 4, 1919. Dempsey held this
title for seven years, and lost it to
Gene Tunney (who outpointed him
over 10 rounds) at Philadelphia on
September 23, 1926.... R.J.: Write
Chancery Registrar’s Office, Royal
Courts of Justice, London, W.C.2....
M.E.H.: (1) The income of a
married woman is not added to that
of her husband for income tax and
social-service contribution assessment
purposes. (2) A married woman is re-
quired to furnish an income-tax return
separately from that of her husband
and to pay income tax and social-ser-
vices contribution separately. She
would not be allowed to claim a de-
duction on account of wages paid
for the care of children and house-
hold duties, as these would be re-
garded as expenses of a private or
domestic nature 5.8. C.: The six
cricketers involved in the dispute with
the Australian Board of Control and
who as a result declined to make the
1912 tour of England were Clem Hill,
V. T. Trumper, W. W. Armstrong,
V. S. Ransford, A. Cotter and H.
Carter. M. A. Noble was not in-
volved in the dispute... .L.S.: The
rain-tree ( Pithecellobium saman ) is a
tropical South American tree, so
called from the fact that the ejection
of juice by cicadas upon it causes it
to appear to be always raining under
its branches. Andira inermis, which
belongs to the same family, is also
called rain-tree for the same reason.
.... W.M.D.: A purdah is the curtain
which screens women from the sight
of men in Eastern countries; a
purdah-naskin is a woman who sits
behind the purdah. In Anglo-Indian
usage, to “lift the purdah” means
to reveal a secret C.L.: The term
“hat trick” given to the feat per-
formed by a bowler who takes three
wickets with three successive balls
may have originated from the practice
of giving hats to successful sports-
men, but is more likely to have come
from the handing-round among the
spectators of a hat for the purpose of
making a collection of money for the
player who has shown his prowess.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
A 7
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
nutted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany MS.
should be addressed to the Editor .
■
R.P.: “The Plunger” was out of
luck H.P.: Nearly, but not quite.
L.C.: Reminded us of Lawson’s
“Sunset Trail”—good story, that
M.K.L.: “Yeah, even Betty Grable
ain’t as sweet as revenge.” That’s
a woman’s point of view.... A.F.:
On finding bagpipes buried at Whale
Beach the proper thing to do is
rebury them T.K.R.: If “Scotch—
Without Soda” had only been real!
J.W.: A little forced H.K.:
Semi - scientific hoopygoop
M.M.S.D.: Well, as you say, it’s a
beginning L.E.P.: “He Couldn’t
Play Poker”—we’re sitting pat
M.D.: Yes, yes; but sad, sad
D.T.: The journey home of the
broken-legged teamster pleased us,
but something went wrong with the
girl at the end—it so often does,
W.E.: “What,” as you say, “the
Hec!” R.A.F.: They’re so happy
we wouldn’t want to spoil it....
R. 8.: Prospector stories, like the old
fields, are pretty-well worked out.
Now and then someone gives them a
new turn, but that don’t mean you.
. ...R.T.P.: Having created a couple
of characters you can’t just kill
them off for a bright ending—some-
thing in the story must bring it about,
... .Bellerive: They’re off: —
... .E.F.C.S.: Tiddleypop... .N.A.:
Afraid your get-rich-quick salesman
will not earn you a cracker 8.R.:
You try to aim at too many targets
at once M.K.: The trouble with
the colonel is that he does nothing
but talk... .L.8.W.: O. Henry got in
ahead of you with that trick ending
R.H.: We let your sentimental
burglar off with a warning P.D.N.:
You become so engrossed with the
scenery that you almost forget the
existence of your characters L.M.:
Shouted Grandpa a couple of stiff
rums and packed him home
C.G.: Type on one side of the paper
and double-space your typing; also,
get yourself a new typewriter ribbon,
F.J.R.; Those toughs are more
suited to an American pulp-magazine
than the pages of an Australian
journal G.D.H.: “Ah! If only
walls could talk!” They would
probably advise you to give up
writing A.A.J.: They were such a
frail pair that it was a shame to send
them out into the cold w0r1d....
5.0’8.: Strange how Horace, “whom
everybody liked in his native village,”
could not find an admirer at 252
George-street W.C.M : The office-
boy found it faintly amusing in parts.
. ...J.S.R.: Received “The Return of
the Champion”; the champion is
being returned... .E.D.: It never
lived up to the fine promise of the
opening sentence' “When Mad Mick
Malone stole that case of whisky-he
little knew wh at trouble was in store
for him”,.. .M.T.: It reminds us
of a story we printed a few years
back.... W.R.H.: The Religious
Editor is praying hard for your soul.
....P.M.: Far too 10ng... .F.S.M.:
No market in our columns for long
essays of that description J.S.A.:
It left us with the curious impression
that you have never been within 500
miles of the place L.A.: At least
you have the honor to be the first
to write about a talking billy-goat.
K.C.: There may be a few print-
able pars among that collection of
episodes M.0.H.: Give us stories,
not speeches... .G.L.S.: You’d do
better if you would prune and polish
your stuff before submitting it to
editors R.G.; It not only missed
the bus; it didn’t even get to the
bus-stop S.Y.: That sentimental
lightweight belongs to a flappers’
paper F.W.; Perhaps Henry Law-
son was not a champion at spelling,
but he could write short stories....
A.BJ.: A feeble effort.
Among former jockeys
Who’d trod the scales
Great riders of skill
Was C. Brian and Hales.
Horsemen of daring
l”v to”We“ mmte°r S
Their mount”n a ra«
Corrigan and Batty
Long laid to rest, ’
Shone in their time
Among the best.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Soldier-settlement
The N. S. Wales Minister for Lands
claims that his Government has proved
that closer-settlement in the Western
Division (N.S.W.) was a sound economic
proposition ; therefore it has withdrawn
between seven and eight million acres
from large fixed-term leases for the pur-
pose.
If the Minister consults the dusty
records of his department he will find
that one of his predecessors in office
proved the same thing back in the 1880’s.
In 1883 some of the big stations in the
Mossgiel district had portions resumed
for closer-settlement, and about 50 settlers
made their homes on holdings of 8000
to 10,000 acres of what was then
described as wonderful grazing country
in its virgin state. The progress of the
district under closer-settlement was re-
flected in the growth of the town of Moss-
giel, which, a few years later, had three
hotels, two stores, two blacksmiths, a
police-station, a resident doctor, a cottage
hospital, a Church of England, and a
Chinese joss-house, erected by a group
of resident Chinese gardeners. A public
school was opened with an enrolment of
95 pupils.
The Minister of the time no doubt
gave himself many a pat on the back
when he contemplated the success of his
closer-settlement scheme, and it is a pity
the story has to be continued. But the
fat years of the early ’nineties, somewhat
similar to 1949 and 1950, were followed
by the seven lean years, which culminated
in the severe drought of 1902.
When a big grazier finds his holding
overstocked in a dry season, he has
several choices. He may lease, or
purchase, relief country in a more
favored district. He may lighten his load
by selling a proportion of his flock.
Straight lines of station-bred wethers or
“cast-for-age” ewes will always find
buyers from distant parts, and are fre-
quently sold and resold without inspec-
tion ; but cockies’ lots of a few hundred
are unattractive to buyers. That is one
reason why the small man is usually in
trouble before his bigger neighbor. His
surplus flock is too small and mixed to
sell or to travel for grass.
The last thing a good station manager
will do is to allow this light-carrying
western country to be overstocked and
eaten out, but the small settlers, in the
late ’nineties, had practically no option,
and when the drought ended in 1903 most
of their stock had died, and their hold-
ings had literally gone with the wind.
Denuded of its binding grass-roots and
edible scrub, the top-soil blew away and
the country was ruined beyond redemp-
tion. The settlers abandoned their hold-
ings, the township lost its support and its
population, and now the ghost town of
Mossgiel consists of a post-office and one
dwelling. Parts of old buildings may
still be seen, harboring great banks of
sand.
Closer - settlement, if it is to be a
success, either for the nation or the indi-
vidual, must be limited to that part of
the State which has an ample rainfall
and is within reasonable distance of an
established town and railhead. Portion
of each holding should be suitable for
pasture-improvement and fodder crops.
Under such conditions the production per
acre from small holdings may well be
higher than from large stations, but in
the back country the reverse is usually
the case.
Many tragic blunders were made, after
the First World War, by misguided
enthusiasts who settled returned soldiers
on unsuitable country, from grazing
blocks, on the Freemantle estate, to pocket
handkerchief allotments in French’s
Forest. If ex-servicemen’s associations
wish to save their members from disaster,
they should have an inspection made of
all soldier-settlement propositions, and
furnish confidential reports to any pros-
pective applicants.
There may be odd favored areas in
the Western Division where closer-
settlement could succeed permanently,
but, generally, the men who are settled
on small holdings in the far west will
prosper while Lake Eyre remains suit-
able for yachting, and not much longer.
The temporary success of the few men
who were fortunate enough to start just
ahead of the recent wet seasons and boom
prices proves nothing except that they
were lucky. Grazing thereabouts is a
gamble, only suitable for men who can
afford to lose. — Delta (N.S.W.).
Down the River
Hot words have been exchanged in
Queensland Parliament over the silting of
ship-berths in the Brisbane River, and it
now seems to be agreed that the Port
Authority or the wharf-owners will do
something about it. But the stuff that
is getting in the way isn’t just mud ; it
is the rich farmlands of the Lockyer and
the cattle-fattening hillsides of Googoo-
lawah and Kilcoy. Erosion, it can’t be
stressed too often, is everybody's
problem, and if it isn’t checked the
citizens of Brisbane will have not only
no meat or potatoes but no port and,
therefore, no city. The menace is as
serious as a war, nearly as urgent and a
darned sight closer. — Magnoon (Q.).
Children’s Compensation
The principle of workers’ compensa-
tion will be extended to schoolchildren if
the Victorian State School Committees’
Association has its way. After all,
children are corhpulsory attenders in
those danger-zones, school playgrounds,
and they have as much right to protec-
tion as other workers.
Had I been covered by accident
insurance, it would have saved my parents
a lot of money. Locked in the gravelled
Pentridge where we spent our “play'’
“Alice, am I supposed to dry on the instalment plan ?”
hour, we developed a game called
Normans and Saxons. We hadn’t a very
clear idea as to how those races were
armed, but we had shields made of kero.-
tin ends and short, stout sticks which we
used as daggers, and serious casualties
were not infrequent. Another “game”
was throwing lumps of blue-metal at one
another’s faces at a range of a few yards.
The champion was he who could stand
quite motionless except for movements
of the head while half a dozen others
hurled qualers at him. I developed such
skill that I can still do it, but it was at
the cost of a few bumps, and one of my
confreres lost an eye.
Then there are the dangers of the
schoolroom. I don’t know what it is
like now, but I was caned every day as
a matter of routine by one teacher who
used a split-cane which raised weals an
inch long. The chief danger nowadays
would be falling asleep while listening to
a lecturer on art appreciation and break-
ing one’s neck. One of the conference
speakers said that he believed that such
a scheme would cost “an astoundingly
small sum.” I don’t know about that,
but it would certainly be common justice.
—Spasebo (Vic.).
Iluka
In his advocacy of that new port at
Iluka (N.S.W.) “Mullum” (B. 9/8/’5O)
shows the type of faith which is said to
move mountains, a useful attribute when
the same port is to be largely hemmed in
by the lofty and economically impassable
New England Range. Fie agrees that
there is, at present, no justification for
the work, but says once the port is estab-
lished, population and production will
flow to the area. That’s exactly what
Queensland’s Forgan Smith said before
squandering a million or so on a similar
white elephant in his own electorate, but
the population, productivity and pros-
perity of the Mackay area have not altered,
and there’s no indication that any of
the many other ports along that coast are
having the slightest effect on the pre-
eminence of Brisbane, which is going
ahead rapidly while the other places re-
main static or go back.
The basic idea behind lluka is said to
be decentralisation, and its sponsors are
in no way discouraged by failures else-
where. Speaking of the vicious circle —
of population depending on jobs which
can only be provided by industry, which
must have transport to markets, the trans-
port depending on population—“M.” says
the transport angle is the easiest to attack.
It’s a largely fallacious argument, but
what pathetic faith most Australians have
in the efficacy of some form or another
of carriage in solving problems only
distantly related to transport!
The silly part about it is that that dis-
trict was most prosperous when it had,
by modern standards, no transport facili-
ties at all. When I first knew it every
river had its efficient coaster service, every
navigable creek its cream-launch. Ashore
the sulky and the spring-cart predomi-
nated, although a few Fords were be-
ginning to appear. The intervening years
have brought the inter-State railway,
thousands of miles of expensive roads
and finally the aircraft. The coasters are
practically finished, the launches entirely
so —I didn’t see a craft of any kind mov-
ing on the Clarence, Richmond or Tweed
when I passed that way two years ago—
and with them has gone genuine cheap-
ness.
The entire northern-rivers district,
one of the richest areas in the world, has
become little better than a mendicant
muttering about a 40-hour week for
farmers, its declining production utterly
dependent on the charity of a Govern-
ment dole.
I don’t profess to know the answer to
that problem, but it most certainly isn’t
an artificial harbor at Iluka. — Trans-
porticus (Singapore).
Outback Workers’ Conditions
A lot of graziers will be spending some
of their wool cheques on developing their
properties. In some cases their plans will
be frustrated by shortages of materials,
in others by scarcity of labor. They can
blame the Government for the first short-
age, but only themselves for their labor
troubles. The offer of high wages alone
won’t solve these troubles, either.
Until I swapped my elastic-sides for
“boots, A. 8.,” in 1939, I’d spent my
working life on outback properties in
n.-w, Queensland.
In those days, when jobs outback
weren’t overplentiful, I was reckoned a
good, all-round man, and had little trouble
getting work. If I were to return to the
districts where I was known I’d probably
be rushed with offers, some of them, in
the long run, really worth much more
than my present city work.
But there’d still be the same dirty old
huts, the same lack of decent bathing
facilities and the same monotonous diet
as there was 15 years ago. For, in spite
of efforts by the A.W.U. to secure better
conditions for pastoral workers, very few
graziers have provided more than the
minimum required by the union. And
many have grudged supplying that much.
City employers have long understood
the need for happy relations with their
employees, and in most cases genuinely
strive to develop amenities for their
workers and help to look after their
welfare. But about all the average grazier
does is to throw an occasional bundle of
magazines on the back veranda for “the
men.”
As most of the properties do not
employ more than half a dozen perma-
nent hands employees haven’t much show
of making organised demands for im-
proved conditions. They can only show
their opinion of the job by packing up
and leaving as soon as they’ve got a bit
of a cheque. And the grazier will class
them as a useless lot of so-and-sos and
ring up the agent, imploring him to send
out more men.
Very few properties have decent
accommodation for married men, so that
stationhands have to keep houses for their
wives in the nearest towns.
Class-consciousness, too, dies hard out-
back, mainly because the boss doesn’t
take much trouble to hide the fact that
he values his livestock more than his
men. And, when tempers are frayed after
a hard day’s mustering, someone is apt
to get sacked on the spot if anything goes
wrong.
The few good bosses I worked for out-
back had mostly knocked around as
workers themselves at some time or other
they had some idea of the workers’
problems. The worst were the arrogant
type of the old school who are probably
twice as arrogant now that they’re in the
near-millionaire class—C. R. (N.S.W.).
The V.D.C.
In the new defence policy that is being
worked out, surely there is room for
revival of the V.D.C. There are many
men who can spare time for weekend
and evening parades, but cannot leave
their farms or businesses for several
weeks in camp. Yet in war-time, as past
experience shows, many would make any
sacrifice to enlist, and, if we were
invaded, everyone would be in the front-
line.
If each C.M.F. unit could include an
auxiliary V.D.C. company or platoon,
these men would be at least partly-trained
when needed, while those who are ex-
soldiers would keep their knowledge of
weapons, etc., up-to-date.
The V.D.C. got no chance to prove
itself in the last war, and many people
regarded it as a joke, but I remember a
night near Mapleton (Q.) in the winter of
when one of their patrols made
bunnies of a crack A.I.F. battalion which
had served in Tobruk. —X.Q.X. (Q.).
The Guilds
Far from the medieval guilds being
organs of the most stagnant period of
commercial history (B. 30/8/’5O), they
flourished in centuries that saw steady
expansion of trade. High standards of
workmanship were also developed by the
guild system. One guild function was
to ensure the consumer a fair deal.
Guildsmen who produced or offered for
sale poor-quality goods were punished.
It was in the ages when the guilds
throve that Western Europe became
dotted with those wonderful cathedrals
which form the pinnacle of European
architectural achievement. Those who
built and embellished them were products
of the guild system. Nothing in archi-
tectuae since can match them for beauty,
while their builders mastered construc-
tional problems that tax the ability of the
modern architect, though he enjoys the
use of materials and mechanical aids not
available to the old builders.
Guild traditions persisted to a large
degree long after the institutions them-
selves had fallen into eclipse. They still
influence the outlook of certain profes-
sional bodies —the 8.M.A., for instance.
Competition is beneficial within reason,
but when unrestrained by ethical con-
siderations it becomes predominately
harmful. Gresham’s Law has application
to a wider field than currency. As A. J.
Benty has well remarked in Towards a
Christian Sociology :
Just as bad money drives out good, so
a low standard of commercial morality will
in the long run render impossible the main-
tenance of a higher one, unless organisa-
tions exist to suppress the lower one.
Laissez-faire was given a good trial in
the 19th century, and proved so unsatis-
factory that Governments were obliged
to regulate economic activities. The
sphere of Governmental control has
tended to widen steadily in the 20th
century. There appears no prospect of
laissez-faire becoming a political force
within the foreseeable future, and, con-
tinued regulation of economic life being
certain, it is better that the governance
of industry be in its own hands rather
than directed by bureaucrats.
Revival of the guild system in modem
form would provide a workable medium
for industrial self-government— Den
(N.S.W.).


How to Cook and Why and What!
MISS DRAKE’S COOKERY BOOK
Thirteenth (enlarged) Edition. Revised by Dorothy M. Giles. Over 260
pages. Stove management (fire, gas, electric). Plenty of recipes New
Pressure Cooking section with Time Charts, etc. A fITST cooks :
from newlyweds to sage housewives,
ROBERTSON & MULLENS LTD,
107-113 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne C.l.
AGATHA CHRISTIES 50th MURDER!
A Murder Is Announced
With this outstanding detective story Agatha Christie celebrates her jubilee. For the fiftieth
time she leaves us breathless with admiration for her incomparable adroitness and ingenuity.
The sky’s the limit, the saying goes, but there’s certainly no limit to Agatha Christie’s fertile
imagination. Incredible though it may seem, she presents yet again a new angle of approach in
A MURDER IS ANNOUNCED, in which there reappears a favourite character, Miss Marple,
that benign old lady with the snow-white hair, pink, crinkled face, innocent blue eyes and
a mind like a gimlet. Once more a murder is announced for the benefit and enjoyment of
Agatha Christie’s countless readers, and we on our part sound a fanfare. Price Bs. 6d.
Available From All Booksellers
COLLINS
DYMOCK’S OCTOBER CATALOGUE
Includes Gift Books and Stationery for Friends Overseas
Send for our latest Catalogue of New and Recent Books. It has an excellent
selection of Books and Stationery listed—as well as the best of Books on
and about Australia, indeed, books your friends abroad will cherish.
MAIL ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
For an excellent guide to reading ask to have your name placed on our
Mailing List. Catalogues Free on Request.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. ’PHONE; 8L3611.
BOOK SUGGESTIONS
HORSESENSE,
By Clive Inglis.
Behind the scenes in the mating,
rearing and racing of great
thoroughbreds. Breezily written.
Illustrated. 12/6 (post Bd.)
TELL ME THE NEXT ONE,
By John Godley.
The strange story of a man’s phe-
nomenal facility to pick horse-race
winners in his sleep eight times out
of ten. 10/6 (post 5d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
Publishers
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
THE IDEAL XMAS GIFT FOR CHILDREN
PICTORIAL KNOWLEDGE is a gift of permanent value that will bring countless
hours of delight to any child and help in the all-important formative years. With
PICTORIAL, KNOWLEDGE a child is not conscious of learning as PICTORIAL
KNOWLEDGE has at least one picture to every page-many in full colour—and
fascinating text, unfolding a dazzling new world of modern knowledge. The whole
field of learning is spread out like an excit-
ing story, illustrated with thousands of
paintings, drawings and photographs.
The 10 handsome volumes (bound in
beautiful red moroquette) contain 44 won-
derful sections covering subjects from the
A.B.C. to Atomic Energy, with 14,589
questions answered in the special factual
index. No one is too old to enjoy PIC-
TOBIALi KNOWLEDGE and it can be
purchased on terms to suit everyone.
TO GEORGE NEWNES (Australia) Pty. Ltd.,
3rd Floor, 119 York Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me free descriptive folder and cash or
easy-terms payment of PICTORIAL KNOWLEDGE.
Name (Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
Address
8.10.50
YOUTH BOOK CLUB
Youth Book Club provides a good, well-bound book every month at the remarkably low price of
4/6 per volume —a fraction of the normal published price. Books are adult, but are specially
selected for young people; they are stories of adventure, vivid and exciting. Many of them
have already become classics in their own particular sphere. Parents and teachers seeking the
ideal introduction to good literature could not find a better means than membership of Youth
RECENT CHOICES
My Best Detective Story: Stories by “Sapper,”
G. K. Chesterton, lan Hay, etc.
Maddon’s Rock, by Hammond Innes: The
story that was broadcast.
Gimlet Goes Again, by Capt. W. E. Johns:
A story of the Commandos.
Three Got Through, by Martin Lindsay:
Memoirs of an Arctic explorer.
The Happy Return: C. S. Forrester: One of
the famous Homblower stories.
To Youth Book Club, Room 90, Third Floor,
Collins House, 360 Collins St., Melbourne,
Vic. I should be pleased to receive details of
Youth Book Club. I enclose 4/10 to cover the
cost of one Youth Book Club choice, and would
like details of the Club.
(Cross out what does not apply.)
NAME
ADDRESS
Characters appear and disappear more
suggestively than dramatically—a de-
velopment, or at least a phase, of the
latter-day French novel. The idea, it
seems, is to give an impression of com-
plexity, and of the sort of tortuousness
of everyday life, by shuttling characters
rapidly in the early phases, and then, as
the narrative irons out, letting them
acquire firm outline and motives; as a
method there is something to be said for
it. But, on the other hand, the puzzled
reader sometimes has the impression that
he has been introduced to an artistic
rabbit-warren.
Criticism of Malaquais, however, must
be extremely guarded ; conditioned by an
appreciation of what he has achieved.
There are, in fact, only two faults to be
found in the novel—the inconsequential
behavior of the characters introduced in
the early part of the book, and an
episode where an Austrian officer who,
from complicated motives of disil-
lusionment and disgust, had par-
ticipated in a minor atrocity in Poland,
later meets his tempter (an S.S. officer)
in Paris, and kills him. The Polish scene
has a kind of fantastic realism —although
one needs, perhaps, some special know-
ledge of the German character to
appreciate it; the killing of the S.S.
officer is unconvincing— perhaps because
Malaquais, on top of the coincidence of
the two officers being billeted in the same
house in Paris, has introduced another—
the presence in the same house of a
victim of their brutality.
Yet these two failures, oddly enough,
do not lessen one’s appreciation of Mala-
quais’s power of creating character and
drama. They appear to be simply the
caielessness of strength. It is probable
that with such a vast theme—France de-
feated Malaquais would have done
better to haVe written a longer novel,
thereby giving his characters room to
move.
No good purpose can be served by a
catalogue of these characters. There are
too many of them—and ail, or very
nearly all of them, are so extraordinarily
good. There is bubbling vitality and a
fine balance—a balance carried into
individual characters, such as De
Pontillac, Petainist prefect of Marseilles,
who, although he is in some ways a
perfect representative of a class of
Frenchman who before the war never
spoke of Germans except as “Le Boche,”
and after the fall of France collaborated
with indecent haste, is not altogether
ignoble.
The best of the characters, un-
doubtedly, is Espinasse, the French police
chief, who involves the young Russian,
Youra, son of the elder Stepanoff, an
Old Guard Bolshevik, in a typically
Russian drama of conscience and
betrayal. Yet Espinasse, a complex,
sadistic, almost satanic figure, remains un-
alterably French. Youra, stumbling out
from an interview with Espinasse, has an
analogous glimpse of the twisted depths
of Espinasse’s nature:
He drank soda after soda, thinking with
a haste that made him stumble, feeling very
clearly that he was going over to Espinasse’s
side. Then he remembered Orel —the night,
he is crouching in the mud of the road a
few steps from the prison, the men in the
prison are in the twenty-second day of their
fast, the creamy voice of the OGPU
officer —non nou what would you say to a
glass of vodka with caviar sinichka with
caviar, his OGPU voice deeply moved—
non get up that’s enough of that three days
of that is enough pareniok eh you can go
on, strike when you get big, his OGPU
voice stirred to the depths—nou nou a
swig of vodotchfca do it for me rebionok
for me for Holy mother Russia, his
OGPU voice obscene on a level with the
mud with the night with a hundred thou-
sand children dead and due to die—nou
nou some caviar. So then Espinasse and
Marc, why not Espinasse and Marc like
himself at fourteen in the mud of Orel
across from the prison with his father in
the prison and the OGPU man drunk —to
every pack its soft-hearted bloodhound, to
every corrida its sentimental picador, and
Marc Marc to feed the cop’s hiccoughs the
day the cop feels low, the night the cop
is with the wenches.
Throughout the book, of course, on
comes across the prickly problems o
translation. In the quoted passage, fo:
instance, the word “cop” seems to thi
reader to strike a discordant note. To th
average Australian, probably, the wor
has visual connotations of white helmets
red faces, point-duty; or, perhaps, i
secondary Hollywood-inspired connota
tion of Irish-New-York-night-stick-G
man chain of associated ideas. Pre
sumably what Malaquais wrote was flic
And flic, although familiar enough to b
vulgar, has a more quietly sinister sound
Which provokes the not highly origina
thought that it is a pity to read gooc
novels in translations. If the experimen
of taking a passage from the novel and
translating it back to the French is made
it will be found to be singularly reward
ing.
Malaquais’s method, in essence, is the
effective use of light and shade. Some of
the shadow—as in the arrests of the
Jewish families at night, and in the
tremendous prison scenes—is so powerfu
as to be horrifying. But the light is of
compensatory brilliance.
J.F.
Reviewed Briefly.
“Australian Weekend Review”: Edited
by G. B. Allan and Bertram Higgins
This Melbourne fortnightly is a pleasing
and useful addition to Australian literary
criticism. It contains reviews of current
books, both local and overseas, critical
articles, news items of interest to literary
competitions and answers to
readers’ queries. In general the reviews
and articles are sound and free from
jargon. In a recent issue Elizabeth
George discusses Nettie Palmer’s Henry
Handel Richardson at some length, Allan
Dawes pays tribute to the opalescent
colors and gems of character in House in
the Sun by Dane Chandos, and amongst
other contributions are Dilys Powell on
films, J. J. Maloney on Moscow Mission
and Alan Craig on Rose Macaulay’s The
World My Wilderness. The most satisfy-
ing of all is A. D. Hope, who reviews
Mona Wilson’s Sir Philip Sidney in his
lucid and incisive style.
* * * *
Promises: Francis Scarfe (Heinemann),
A first-novel by the poet and critic; a
very delicately told story of a sea-
captain’s son who, on the death of his
father at sea, is sent to endure life at
an orphan asylum for mariners' sons;
he escapes, returns; later fails in the
eyes-test for his sea-going indentures, be-
comes a clerk and is last seen bathing in
the moonlight with a charming girl called
Curly.
* * * «
Lying Awake: Catherine Carswell
(Seeker and Warburg). Mrs. Carswell
came to the world’s notice in a very
forthright book about D. H. Lawrence
and in an earthy study of Burns; but
was well-known in London as musical
and literary critic. She died in 1946.
This book consists of some 15 chapters
of her unfinished autobiography ; some
fragments, some poems and letters, all
introduced very nicely and informatively
by her son. The autobiography has much
to say of her childhood in Scotland and
especially Glasgow; something of music,
and a great deal about women in litera-
ture.
“THE BULLETIN”
CROSSWORD No, 90
ACROSS.
I—Game sphere and a dessicated
collection of narrative poetry in
general. (8)
s—The perfect standard when I can
be sure of four aces. (5)
10—A cricket team gets a duck with
you and the crafty—and with
some concern. (9)
12— Disorderly slave participates in
this dance. (5)
13— Italian city—but it’s usually
burnt for painters. (5)
14— Red tip ? Valiant and fearless. (8)
15— Conveyance provided thanks to
the cricket team. (4)
18— Hellas. (6)
19— -Little Edward leaves the bed-
room “steed” for Walpurgis
Night flowering shrub besom. (5)
20 — Insect in any specially organised
burst of communal work. (3)
22 Bar didn’t get out. (5)
23 — The vernacular. (5)
26 — Italian river in a French pre-
position. (4)
27 Father condition of Little Bo-
Peep and a view otherwise to be
found in an isthmus. (8)
28 — Canonised tune is a way of going
up or down. (5)
30— King bird to raise 50 with a low
and menacing rumble. (5)
31— Vehicle takes Mr. Colleano or
Mr. Law before I finish off the
secret society. (9)
32 — Fellow to leave from among the
fruit. (5)
33 Sovereign of a kilted tribe
making a noise with chains. (8)
DOWN.
1— “Teddy,” with a handkerchief
across his mouth, and Barnaby
nursing ill-will. (6, 1,6)
2 The French elf translated from
the German neckwear and some
looseness of discipline. (8)
3 Youth has a way of succoring
the unemployed perfume. (10)
4 Rising air surrounds the Ameri-
can warship country in Europe.
6 Prima donna upset the rapacious
four swallowed by the district
attorney. (4)
7 Pertaining to Atlas at the
skinny. (6)
8— Lapse by Saggers. (3)
9 Communist batting and French
upset a grille that is making
anything whole again. (14)
10—Hat for 51d. (3)
16— Exist in a superficial measure. (3)
17— Heads for the big smoke and has
some really big outpouring of
feeling. (4, 2,4)
19— Wager this is half “The Little
Black Princess.” (3)
20— Fight, just in case. (3)
21—Parent thanks laughter and the
king-emperor role of Garbo. (4,4)
24—Area in California is thus
motherless. (6)
26 The residence of Mr. Huckle-
berry Finn. (6)
27 Pious name for an Italian girl. (3)
28 — Girls upset mine refuse. (4)
29 Successful service. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 89.


NOW YOUR NEW CHRISTMAS SUIT AT PRE-RISE PRICES
Wherever
you g 0...
I
m
m
m.
1
■
■
® Now on display the latest range of
English and Australian lightweight,
worsteds in popular American
shrmpu
df
Whatever the company ... a well
dressed man feels at ease. A man who
appreciates good tailoring knows the
importance of hidden details in
the way a suit will set, the way it feels
and wears . . . this ensures confidence.
Individual tailoring-to-measure by H. J.
Cooney has won the acceptance and praise
of thousands and thousands throughout
Australia.
■
cf>,
(
r
&
i
If you haven’t experienced this fine taiioring-to-
measure you’d be wise to do so, particularly as
H, J. Cooney offers the widest possible range of high-class materials
bought at pre-rise prices.
individually tailored-to-
measure in 30 DAYS *«.
1819
PIECE S.B.
If you cannot personally call at any of these sho\
send this coupon for
H. J. COONEY PTY., LTD.,
449 PITT ST., SYDNEY. M 6248.
Please forward, without obligation, self-measurement chart,
style brochure and patterns for suit, trousers, sports coat,
dinner suit, blazer. (Strike out whichever is not required.)
NAME
ADDRESS •
. .State .
Bulletin, Oct. 11
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
• 449 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. M 6248.
• 21 ADELAIDE ARCADE, ADELAIDE. W 1926.
• 546-548 HAY STREET. PERTH, W.A.
