

The Bulletin
a'flie Bulletin,” Vol. 71—No. 3671
, June 21, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
■pOR over a thousand years Westminster
Abbey, or the site upon which it
stands, has been a sacred place, and no
other building in England is held in
greater veneration. Here have been
crowned all English kings and queens
since the year 1066, and in it lie buried
not only kings but great servants of the
State, poets, painters and the illustrious
of the land.
Tradition asserts that the first church
was built on the site, which was then an
island named the Isle of Thorns, in the
early seventh century, and was conse-
crated by Mellitus, the first Bishop of
London. Its recorded history, however,
commences in a.d. 730, when a Benedic-
tine Abbey named “West Minster” was
founded on the site. Some three centuries
later Edward the Confessor, who had been
crowned at Winchester, rebuilt the Abbey
on a larger scale. The Abbey, as it exists
today, was built on the foundations of
the Confessor’s edifice, and its additions
represent six hundred years of building
and many generations of kings—Henry
111 in the thirteenth century, Henry V in
the fifteenth century and Henry VII in
the sixteenth century. Us architecture is
mainly Early English in style, of which it
is one of the finest examples in Britain.
The great west towers were completed in
1740 by Wren and Hawksmoor. The
Abbey’s crowning glory is Henry VIFs
Chapel, built in 1503, with its superb
fan-tracery vaulting. The flying buttresses
are another notable feature of the Abbey.
Among the many historical treasures
within the Abbey is the Coronation
Chair, containing the famous Stone of
Scone, brought from Scotland in 1296,
and on it has been crowned every English
monarch since Edward I. Here also are
preserved the sword, helmet and saddle
used by Henry V, hero of the Battle of
Agincourt, who is commemorated in the
Chantry which bears his name. In the
nave of the Abbey is a national shrine,
the tomb of the Unknown Warrior of the
First World War.
Tradition, romance and antiquity are
all to be found in Westminster Abbey,
the heart of England.
WESTMINSTER ABBEY, HALLOWED SHRINE OF THE EMPIRE'S GREAT
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


siow Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name ..
My Address
S.B. 260 AOE
The Red Page
MAX.
Beerbohm’s Christmas Garland and
Seven Men (Heinemann), uniform, but
still in the different-colored covers in
which the master insists that complete
editions of his works must appear, bring
back memories of happy days long, long
ago, when one was a bachelor and could
afford to act Beerbohm far into the night
and maybe a little into the next day as
well.
We always come away from Beer-
bohm, as we sometimes come away from
a picture or a play, in costume;
immaculate, covering an amused
superiority with a well-mannered display
of self-effacement, and hiding a destruc-
tive wit (his forte, said Guedalla, is the
suppression of enthusiasms) behind an
effort to write in the painfully accurate
English of the grammar-book, and with
the wary politeness of a conversation be-
tween people who have met for the first
time.
What we envy Beerbohm is his
manner, his seeming ability to live in
the pose which we have never been able
to maintain for more than a few minutes,
or, at most, a few hours. So much, in
so many well-turned essays, so worthy of
it, and so imitative of it, has been said
about this manner, that it is only with a
feeling of incautiousness and a fear of
sacrilege that one dares to add one frag-
ment of perception: that the presence of
a wife is noxious to it.
For instance, as one turns through A
Christmas Garland, looking for the
places that were so good twenty years
ago—
“ What are you giggling at ?”
“Was I giggling ? You can’t beat the
old Max.”
“What old Macs? I hate Scotch
jokes.”
“It’s Max Beerbohm ; he’s taking-off
George Mo-ore: ‘There are moments
when one does not think of girls, are
there not, dear reader ?’ ”
“Well, I suppose you sometimes break
off for dinner.”
“That’s not the point. He’s satirising
George Moore’s style. That’s George
Moore, in one sentence. Of course, if
you haven’t read George Moore”
“Why read him if your friend Mack’s
got him in one sentence ? Now, don’t
interrupt me any more — I’ve got to count
these stitches.”
Now this is all very bad. The woman
has tempted you into familiarity : you
have slapped Beerbohm on the back and
called him “the Old Max.” You have
explained the point of his joke. You
have dragged him out and labelled him a
satirist. Worst of all, you have suggested
that someone hasn’t read George Moore ;
a crime in itself, aggravated by the
appalling bad taste, the literary snobbery,
of mentioning it at all, and in such a
way as to indicate another’s inferiority.
Beerbohm would never do that.
Moreover, there was something in the
woman’s point about troubling to read
Moore when Beerbohm could compress
him. As Guedalla pointed out, one of
the charms of Beerbohm is that every
reader thinks himself the only one able
to appreciate the exquisite subtlety of his
entertainments ; yet A Christmas Garland
might well prove an introduction of
Henry James, Kipling, A. C. Benson,
Arnold Bennett, Chesterton, Belloc,
Frank Harris, Bernard Shaw, Gals-
worthy, etc., to people who had never
-read them ; in a few pages of parody, he
gives you not only their style, but a
criticism of it, so that you could easily
pass as well-informed upon the methods
and faults, especially the faults, of the
originals without reading any more.
Arnold Bennett never wrote a better or
more characteristic story than Beer-
bohm’s “Scruts”; and what other
parodist could reproduce so precisely the
effect so often found in the prose of
Wilde and Harris, of slashing into a
subject with one swift stroke, and laying
it evenly open?
The Professors deny it, however, or deny
that it is proven. With these gentlemen——
“Darling, will you run me a bath ?”
1 will deal faithfully. I will meet them
on their own parched ground, making them
fertilise it by shedding there the last drop
of water that flows through their veins.
And how well he got Under the skin
of Kipling’s vulgarity:
Sharp round the corner on the way home,
I collided with something firmer than the
regulation pillar-box. 1 righted myself
after the recoil and saw some stars that
were very pretty indeed
The prisoner was squealing and whimper-
ing —
“What was yer doin’ hup there?” asked
Judlip, tightening the grip.
“I’m Santa Claus, Sir. P-please, Sir,
let me g-go.”
“Hold him,” I shouted. “He’s a Ger-
man ! ”
“Darling, I asked you to run me a
bath.”
“Bath ? Can’t you run your own
bath ? I just sit down after a hard day’s
work in the office for a bit of a quiet read,
and you come gabbling at me and pester-
ing me to run a bath.”
“All right. I suppose you think I do
nothing all day cleaning and washing and
buying groceries while you sit there on
your fat behind with a long face.”
“I haven’t got a long face. All right,
I’ll run your bath for you; let this be
the last.”
And there is an exquisite delicacy of
suggestion in the parody of Galsworthy’s
charming husband and wife worrying
whether to brave conventions and give
the canary some breadcrumbs between
meals;
“Jacynth, don’t you remember that long
talk we had last winter, after the annual
meeting of the Feathered Friends’ League,
and how we agreed that those sporadic
doles could do no real good—must even
degrade the birds who received them —and
that we had no right to meddle in what
ought to be done by collective action by
the State?”
But if the critic feels that little remains
to be said about A Christmas Garland,
which is throughout a parody of writers,
he must feel a little afraid of saying any-
thing when he comes to Seven Men, a
set of original stories, in which many
horrible things are said of critics:
“Enoch Soames,” which was broadcast
in a 8.8. C. performance as a play
recently, is the study of a poet who made
a bargain with the Devil in order to read
what the critics of seventy-eight years
later would say of him; “Maltby and
Braxton” is the story of a publicity-
hunting novelist who got himself invited
to a weekend at the Duke of Hertford-
shire’s, and was haunted by a rival
novelist whom he had cleverly managed
to exclude from the party; “Felix
Argallo and Walter Ledgett” is the story
of a critic unkindly spoken of in the
posthumous works of the great, how
Beerbohm arranged to have him men-
tioned kindly in the letters of a famous
author, and what befell. If it is the busi-
ness of a critic to display an author on
the point of a pin, it is Beerbohm’s, in
these stories, to stick pins in whole
groups of writers; indeed, if we believe
that a writer cannot write what he has
not felt, we must feel that in the account
of the anguish suffered by young Maltby,
anxious to- impress, when he spilt soup on
his shirt-front at the Ducal dinner-table,
or swerved his bicycle into that of the
aged harridan, Lady Rodfitten— —
“Darling, bring me a cigarette."
“Get your own cigarette. I’m busy. ’
“I’m so warm in bed.”
“I wish you’d leave me alone. After
all, it’s not as if I’m sitting up here read-
ing for my own pleasure. Here. And
here’s the matches.”
“Savonarola Brown,” a blank-verse
play to end all such blank-verse plays, is
so quietly done that you might hardly
feel he is trying to satirise anything at
all, until you come to the stage-direction:
Enter Lucrezia Borgia, St. Francis of
Assisi and Leonardo da Vinci
and then there are the songs:
When pears hang green on the garden wall
With a nid, and a nod and a mddy-mddy-o
Then prank you, lads and lasses all
With a yea and a nay and a niddy-o.
But the best story in the book is of
A. V. Laider, with its reference to Aus-
tralia in a discussion of a London news-
paper-controversy: —
This correspondence had now reached its
fourth and ultimate stage —its Australian
stage. It is hard to see why these corres-
pondences spring up; one only knows
“When are you coming to bed ?”
one only knows that they do spring
un suddenly; like street crowds. There
comes, it would seem, a moment when
the whole English-speaking race is uncon-
sciously bursting to have its say about
some one thing—the split infinitive, or the
habits of migratory birds „
reason, or what-not or fa ith an a
review happens at such^ t£Ver weekly
contain a reference, howev P r m °nient I
theme in question, ream remot e, to t t
of letters blow in from aflV torm - Gust
British Isles. These ar? P rL n n mers the
by Canada in full blaft S y / em forced
later the Anglo-Indians • few Weeks
cousins!?. , haVe W -> A; n Aust£
tralian betters “that ha? ple^ 01 the Au s .
™ rrc ?, t >ssue. It was from S e > the
Man, and was of the ahm™
declares that “all *hg
been groping m the dark” ?n d hav <=
the who e matter in one short s S ttle s
JM e . i'; s !u in thls instance was fe fla sh.
faith, faith reason—that is alt „ , as °0 is
earth and all we need to know”. kn ° W °»
Darting, arc you pvrd
bed?" y EVER c °ming to
But the story is not a satire nn u ,
bourne men ; it is a storyto°" Me ;
lying clubmen s stories - nd all
Darling, can you hear me ?”
And so, farewell, Max Beerboh
Twenty years ago, one wouldn? wfc
lieved it of one. n 1 dave
R. McC.
The Smell of Paste.
Distantly, faintly from E C Som™
lad's Mightier Than the Sword
and Robertson) there floate to i e T
viewer s nostrils the smell of paste The 1
IS no odor in the world-not even th.
sweet south that breathes upon a bank of
vioiels to match it. It if the smell o
the country newspaper office
One could not, after all’, fin UD the
entire paper with Hopkins’s giant vege-
table marrow. The Jenkinses from Woon
woop had come to stay with their re'
ktiv-es the Podworthys and that was that
The Fire Brigade Ball had been held a
Sooo time had been had by all—exactly
how ood one had been rather too
blithered to observe ; and perhaps just as
well—and the names and the dresses of
all the ladies present might stretch to half
a column.
Even if by supreme good fortune old
Bill Fuckett had at long last kicked the
bucKet, to the delight of his repressed
son -, and daughters and the dismay of all
three publicans and—so rumor declared—
of a certain Mrs. Trotter, so that you
wen able to print the more decorous
facts about the career of this “worthy
citizen” and “link with the pioneering
days,' Bill really wasn’t good for more
than a column.
So out came the paste-pot, out came
the cissors; and the news of the whole
world was at your disposal. You could
have earthquakes in Turkey; you could
have motoring notes, the world’s sport,
red; . for housewives; even, judiciously
clipped from a newspaper far enough
av from home, a leading-article that
wosff i prove that you and your town held
ster; and learned opinions on world
politics,. •
: 1 • Sommerlad, who is chairman and
mn nad fig director of Country Press, Ltd.,
h • * gone a long way since he started on
a ■ •• ■ ry paper at £2_ 15s. a week—the
t , e cannot refrain from boasting
that Ihe got was ten bob, and that
whereas the young Sommerlads first
a f rent was to cover the annual show,
li mg reviewer started off with an
obi .ry, which involved taking morning-
tea. if; the presence of the corpse .. . Mr.
Sorn.rr.crladi one repeats, has gone a long
v. : since his first editor, a picaresque and
picb.a esque character, first displayed
him he art of the paste-pot. He
I'eliow of Advertising ; he is an M.L.u
; ihe lessons of youth die hard , and
bo • such Of Mightier Than the Sword
1- , n compiled with the aid o h
valuable scissors, the indispensable paster
, " for instance, Mr
out to define “news’ r his
handbook on journalism ladvertising”
propaganda, public relatio , a {fae
he quotes a whole page t newS; he
Chicago “Tribune
quotes from the Oxfor - s
from Dr. William G™sven from the
Newspaper Writing '. a^ re^^s ub-editor
evidence of a Daily P Cornm ission,
as given to the British Y oU tline of
from the Hearst vieWS of the
their idea of news, fro 0 f which
United Press long ago
seems to the reVie J® ’ a oU tsize vege-
decided that news was an cessa ry and
table marrow, possibly unn
certainly repetitive these pag es ot
It is, alas, more from reminisc enc<*
clipped material than from have had
of the rich experiences he.^ etel?s vetf
on country P a P ers a 0 f paste anses
little —that the coma is a
Mr. Sommerlad s. book, n 1S ft
as well as aJ° wr jtten m ost
Mightier Than the Sword. • ing note
; Politicians are fond “ p »
; sentiments; journahsts
(Continued on inside back cov»->
Poems from Paintings
. . . ROSEMARY DOBSON
THE WILDWOOD.
In desert waste, on thorny hill
Stalked the sublime, indifferent lion;
He bowed his head before the saint
Who blessed him with the holy sign.
The centaur in a wooded place
Rooted and trembling, sniffed the air,
Saint Anthony before his cell
With lifted hands cast out his fear.
The stag who from the thicket leapt
With all the fury of the wild
Was by the holy hermit tamed;
The leopard lay down with the child.
The bear, the wolf, the fox subdued—
All these the painter showed, and more,
Then overturned hi® pots of paint
And threw his brushes on the floor.
Out in the thickets of the night,
The wildwood vforld of hate and greed.
Driven by lust, impelled by fear.
He had his will, he took his need.
Ah hasten, holy men, step down
From out the pictures’ webs of paint.
Artists, no less than beast's and birds,
Have need of taming by a Saint!
ALTAR-PIECE.
Head bowed, the Virgin, With attentive
air.
The mantle, so, to overlap her hair,
A flower, to hold, perhaps? Not more
than one,
And half-smile fading ere it has begun.
Then for the angel, herald sent from
Heaven,
Three fingers raised —dispose the other
seven
As I think best?
(A small indulgence that—
Holiness, pardon!) Yes, I have it pat
As Raphael did, and Giotto, Paolo.
Then for the background, how is it to
go ?
I may decide, your Grace, as ! think fit?
Such favor, Sir. May Ibe worthy it.
This way the door. On Tuesday then
you’ll come?
And may I mention. Sir, a trifling sum
For paints and brushes —thanks. I
bow, I bow.
Thank God he’s gone.
And here’s my Virgin now
Simpering as on a thousand walls be-
fore,
A thousand paintings—and I add one
more!
By not one brush-stroke may I deviate
(Lest Padua’s church be thus made
desecrate)
From laws laid down by painters long
since dead.
Who paints to live must follow where
he’s led
And I must live. .
But I would paint, would paint,
Paint Life, and leave the altar to the
saint.
Now to the background. Through the
arches there
For my devices thirty inches square
And all my longing, all my art in it!
A line of Tuscan hills I think will fit,
That stream I know, the bridge, the
water-mill
I sketched before and. just below the
hill
The village roofs, white oxen perhaps,
just so.
Soldiers and beggars walking to and
fro
Beyond the loggia. And 111 sign my
name
Not at the Virgin’s hem, nor by the
frame
But here, among the rabble of the town,
“Artist Unknown” and put my brushes
down.
LANDSCAPE IN ITALY.
Were there, then, roses in the grass?
And saints with holy feet who trod
The mountain paths on pilgrimage
With rapt face looking up to God?
Was there a bird on every tree
Beyond the city s walls and towers
And angels, stepping gently by
Over the field-embroidering flowers?
Was there, far off, a ship at sea
With storm-tossed sailors bent in
prayer, . , . ,
And did, above the violent clouds,
St. Nicholas, to save, appear?
Landscapes, once seen, in memory
Waver and tremble to a dream.
How lay the contours of the hills
We viewed that day, where ran the
stream?
But Art, more durable than thought
Between event and memory
Has interposed her colored chart
To show in perpetuity
That, but five steps from where we lay
Drowsing upon the short-cropped
grass
Lightly, with all her springtime flowers,
Did Botticelli’s Flora pass.


"TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING"
11
m
IPi
mi:.p^'
■
H
HPI .
■
.
K
wmMmmwm-
m. *
.« Wl , >
, -4 M'<i f > -
%A: ' ft. i. i' m
ta ■
j| - W- m
ffb. v T
t*. .//
i I Hi
&L-/i
1:
T.v
fi
•. V.
> ■
"Y
> <vi Y <
1
HS
l : i
IT/,
I
pi fH . ....
■lfl i
■li 1111
r
s
:\
ilii
> ;;v;:,Sv « V : ;
LH
Anthony Horderns’
The Grand Prize
"Eureka” Vacuum Cleaner
Exclusive to Anthony Hordern’s
Specially designed for wall-to-wall carpets.
Most powerful suction of all vacuum
cleaners. Removes dirt and dust without
damaging the carpet. Full set of accessories
that stay attached, are easy to fit
and are most reliable in performance.
The “EUREKA” is made in England
and distributed exclusively by
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
£27/15/- complete.
Here we have some
These appliances are
come along or
useful accessories for the housewife
designed to save time and labour for the busy housewife 9
write to our Electrical Dept, for information
■
• I
B:
P/FCO” Electric Massager
Stimulates a healthy circu-
,at 'on. 240 v A.C. £6/19/6
F;
Met-Elec Electric Toaster
Highly polished plate finish.
Price, 37/6. Flex, plug, 6/
1
M
1
Mi
m
mm.
X:
feta
4
r * *4
i* t *] 4 i ;
• ; . ::
* «
•f •
■ ■
■■•:-• ■ : ' .
“Baroness” Reading Lamp
In Pink, Green, Champagne.
Plug and globe extra. 39/3
I:
S.T.C. Waffle Iron
Guaranteed for 12 months.
£5/7/6, flex and plugs, 6/-
J:
Electric Sandwich Toaster
Highly polished finish. Price,
£5/9/6, flex and plugs, 6/-
K;
The Servex Coffee Percolator
12 month guarantee £5/14/6.
Highly polished plated finish.
Ocean Central Heating Unit
Oil filled, just plug in and
switch on. Price, £29/10/-
M:
The New Roden 37 Stovette
Ideal for country use, stainless
steel top. Price, £2l/19/6
WHONY HORDERNS’ ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT—GROUND FLOOR, PITT ST. PHONE M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


VALUE AND
THE POUND
By DAVID ADAMS
In this review of present-day economic conditions the following
conclusions are arrived at: (1) Our pound is not what it was in
1939, and never will be again. (2) A price-level considerably
above that of 1939 is here to stay. (3) Stability, even at present
inflated cost and price levels, depends principally upon an
adequate world supply of raw materials, and upon we, ourselves,
doing a fair day’s work for fair pay. (4) “A fair day’s work for
fair pay” is an essential condition of any “full employment”
policy that can be justifiably sustained. Without it, “full employ-
ment” becomes “perpetual inflation.” (5) If a slump in world
prices should occur, there will be a tendency for some items in
the Australian cost-of-living index to go higher still. (6) Revalu-
ation (upwards) of the Australian pound would tend to check
inflation, but by itself it represents no solution.
TODAY wc are living in a period of
inflation. That is another way of
saying we find, as each month
passes, that the price of living re-
quirements rises, that the cost of other
things rises, and that wages rise in keep-
ing with the cost of living.
This inflation means that the money of
our country is losing its value —losing
its buying-power. And thus, while people
earning income at a rate which rises
with the increasing cost of living may
be able to hold their own* with this infla-
tion, those people who are no longer
earning, but who rely on fixed invest-
ment incomes or bank-deposit accounts,
are daily becoming poorer because their
income or savings are losing in buying-
power. And, similarly, salaried people
are often at a great disadvantage. Share-
holders in companies which have not in-
creased their dividends in 10 years are
likewise heavily penalised.
This inflation problem is one of the
major disturbances in the world today—
greatest, perhaps, in China and some
Continental countries, but gravely dis-
turbing also in what is known as the
“sterling area.” In the United States,
after, a long period of price- and cost-
inflation, there is evidence of some
stabilisation —on the price side, at any
rate. It is in the United States, signifi-
cantly, that the greatest recovery in indus-
trial production since the war has
occurred.
In Australia the pound has the same
name as in 1939, legally it has the same
power to discharge debts, but in value
it is not the same money. Not only will
it not buy the same amount of bread,
meat, clothing, travel or entertainment as
before the war; it will not buy the same
amount of gold. 'Though a golden
sovereign and a pound-note once had the
same value, it takes more than 15
of our present pound-notes to buy an
ounce of gold today, whereas in 1939 it
took under 10, in 1914 just over four.
This change in our money’s gold value
is illustrative of something that needs
emphasis. There are many people living
today who were brought up on a golden-
sovereign currency system. They knew
the stability of the pre-1914 period, and
they saw the price-slump that followed
the post-1914-18-war boom, especially
after Britain’s return to the gold standard
in 1925. They have come to believe
that money is a good thing to hang on
to in periods of rising prices or inflation.
Money used to be a good thing to hang
on to in such times —when money was
gold or backed by gold. Today money
in Australia is only vaguely connected with
gold, and the tendency for several years
has been to manipulate the connection
for economic and political purposes
rather than to preserve the gold value
of the currency.
In other words, those who saw Britain
return to the gold standard in 1925, on
the basis of 85s. to the ounce of fine
gold, are likely to see nothing like it
occur again in their lifetime. Neither are
they likely to see gold sold at £7 15s.
sterling an ounce, which was Britain’s
1939 price. Britain may be able to
stabilise at the present price of £l2 Bs,
an ounce. If so, that recognises a very
large increase in prices and costs of a
permanent nature.
We must come to acknowledge that
higher costs and prices are here to stay.
There are many anomalies in our present
price-structure, and we may see big falls
in some price items in the next few
years, especially in raw materials, such as
wool, wheat and perhaps metals. But a
fall of 50 p.c. in these things would still
leave them far above the average of the
1930’5.
Inflation
Inflation on the scale we see today,
especially in Australia, New Zealand and
Great Britain, arises from, firstly, the
vast amount of money created to pay for
war that was not taken from the people
in the form of taxation (wages, etc., were
paid for munitions, etc., for which
Governments never got any return and
for which the people were not fully
charged in taxation); secondly, from the
post-war world shortage of raw materials
in relation to delayed demand, resulting
in high prices, even on a gold basis, for
wool, cotton and other fibres, coal,
metals, timber, foods, etc.; and, thirdly,
from the Tow rate of post-war production
of goods by wage-earners in relation to
the rate of pay they receive.
This last factor is a continuing one,
and at present is the most serious. The
credit created artificially to pay for war
waste is a done thing, and has to be
accepted. World production of raw
materials is likely to catch up with
demand as time goes by. But a higher
rate of production within our own coun-
try is something which we ourselves have
to achieve, and it involves many big
political and industrial problems, includ-
ing, perhaps, reconsideration of the 40-
hour week.
There are many authorities, however,
who believe that the rate of national pro-
ductivity could be greatly increased with-
out abandonment of the 40-hour week,
simply through a more sincere effort by
wage-earners freed from intimidation by
militant unions, and helped by an uninter-
rupted supply of coal and electric power.
Immigration has had a special influ-
ence, in Australia, upon higher prices.
But a bigger and more industrious popu-
lation should, in the long run, tend to
reduce unit costs of production.
Government Efforts
The Liberal party, before the Federal
elections, announced its intention of try-
ing to “put value back into the pound.”
All that the Menzies Government can
hope.to do during the next year or more
is to retain whatever value the pound
has in it now. The pound has lost its
value because of inflation, and at present
our inflationary
momentum is in-
creasing, its rate
bearing a direct
relationship to the
economic, indus-
trial and political
deterioration of the past five years (when
Socialism was in flower), to which must
be added the outside influence of high
worjd prices when we come either to buy
and sell abroad.
The Government will never be able
to put back into the pound all the value
that has been lost as a result of war con-
ditions and post-war Socialism. But if
stability can be achieved within two years,
and we level-off at a new point in the
costs-and-prices structure, then the evil of
incidence of inflation will be gradually
left behind, and, with the more equitable
distribution of the national income that
comes with stability, values again will be
what they seem, and it will pay a person
to save money and be thrifty.
The Menzies Government, though it
has to get over several legislative hurdles
first, is going the right way about restor-
ing some value to the pound. The Com-
munist party —which for 30 years has
advocated inflation and industrial dis-
ruption as ai prelude to actual revolution
—has to be dealt with, and more
coal, steel and other essential raw
materials have to be produced. If the
fear of Communist intimidation is re-
moved from the trade-unions, wage-
earners will be presented with the oppor-
tunity of preserving the value of their
own wage-envelopes and increasing their
own standard of living in real terms by a
greater production of goods and services.
A Fair Day's Work
Obviously, for paper-money and
“credit” in its many forms to retain its
buying-power, corresponding value must
be given in the shape of work and produc-
tion. When a man gets £lO a week but
only produces £5-worth of goods or
renders only £5-worth of service, he is
instrumental in creating a shortage of
goods in relation to money ; and where
tens of thousands of wage-earners fail
to give a fair day’s work for a fair day’s
pay the inflationary effect on the cost of
living becomes'extremely serious,
A fair day’s work for fair pay is a
fundamental ingredient in the cure for
costs-inflation.
Production Depression
The Australian wool clip, which repre-
sents the production frqrn Australia’s
greatest single industry, has only in two
post-war years averaged more in quantity
than in pre-war years. But the wool
cheque has increased from around £45
million a year to over £260 million.
Black-coal production in Australia today,
including opencut coal, is only about 20
p.c. greater than it was in 1939. Steel
production is now far below what it was
in 1942-43, and represents no more than
70 p.c. of plant capacity.
Since 1939 Australia’s population has
increased by close on a million, and the
number of per§pns employed, outside the
rural industries, has increased by 784,000
to 2,514,000. When limping industrial
output is set alongside this greater em-
ployment the country is seen to be obvi-
ously in a production depression.
Compared with this depressed industrial
output the growth in the money holdings
of the population shows out as gross in-
flation. In June,
1939, the total was
£612 million. By
September, 1949,
it was no less than
£1778 million.
Looked at in
another way: in 1938-39 the national in-
come was estimated at £Bl4 million. The
figure for 1948-49 was £1955 million.
Obviously the increase largely represents
no more than paper-money “prosperity.”
It is not backed adequately by produc-
tion.
Deflation
A deliberate Government policy of de-
flation could bring about a fall in costs
and prices. But it would have so many
social and political repercussions, unless
skilfully carried out at the height of a
boom, that it would be difficult to imple-
ment successfully. Any deflationary
policy, to be equitably and effectively
carried out, would call for a whole-
hearted, co-operative political and
economic effort.
In the Soviet and Indonesia attempts
have been madp to lower prices by can-
celling or reducing bank balances, forcing
money into Government loans or
issuing a smaller amount of new currency
to old holders. This is legalised
robbery, pure and simple, and could not
be countenanced in a really civilised
society unless the country was bankrupt.
Revaluation of the Australian pound
in relation to the sterling pound would
reduce the cost of imports into Aus-
tralia and ease the inflationary money
pressure arising from high export prices.
But to give an effective .
n?n S H r t ValUat ‘ 0n n =«is tO t'° r ' S ' nS
panied by greater Australian 6 acc °ni.
(per man) of essential goods P r° ducti on
consumption. goods for ho me
"th!p Premiep s , Plan"
Ahe Premiers’ Plan v/a« «
traduced in 1931 to cope w n h m i asu / e in-
l° rld r P^ eS Which ca me with\£ e / all in
sion of that period, ft * de Pres-
adjustable Government ?xl / educin B
20 p.c., including all wapp? en ? lture by
pensions paid by the GoSrSnf a ” d
It also provided for a reduESf tS *
P.c. in interest on Government na of 22 *
this cut was eventuallv f oans » and
interest on private debts to
interest rates. ’ lncludl ng bank-
More taxation was •
to help balance Budgets. dln order
At the same time the m-m,*
was altered, the Australian Xchan 8 e rate
tually settling at £125 to r?no nd eve *-
Th« helped to increasethe 1<Lsterlil>B-
- exporting industries, which ah™\ o£
some badly-needed assistance from I had
TW °‘ her ° har S« ™der ,he t
Fhese measures, combined P .
general effect of the depression th the
a fall of 21 p.c. in the
tween the peak of June iqT B be :
the depths of March, 1933. ’ (PresenM ?d
mg costs are about double those of 19] ij
Credit
No discussion of national •
fng o^w^aT?reditTs ith ° Ut ** Unders S
ab^e a n r Lrro7-‘c^rt?s
terms hke “national credit” ‘'bank
credd “credit inflation,” and so on
Credit in its legitimate sense is simnlv
time to pay,” and this is so in the
taktr^For 111 ', rCmo ‘f f , orms which cred '‘
takes, hor a country’s credit structure
o be sound there should be some obligl!
I™? o£ de , mptl ? n to someone or some
body and for the credit to have the
foundation of goods or other assets which
have value in the .public estimation.
When credit has been created to finance
unsound or extravagant ventures or
ventures for which there is no public
need or demand, the tendency is for the
credit issued to grow in excess of values
and for such debts to become a burden!
Also, credit issued to pay for waste!
such as war waste, leaves the money in
existence but no saleable or socially usable
return for the outlay. This results in
more money being circulated than there
are goods and other assets offering for
sale, with the consequence that the price
of goods rises to meet the increased
monetary level. That is an example of
credit and price inflation combined.
But credit can always be safely guaran-
teed by a Government if it is to be em-
ployed in providing a legitimate public
benefit for which the people are able and
willing to pay, now or in the future, either
directly of in the form of taxation.
Keynes and Unemployment
The monetary teachings of J. M.
Keynes have influenced political and
economic thought for the past 20 years.
The Keynes theory of unemployment,
in essence, is that unemployment is
caused by an insufficiency of investment
by people who do not spend all their
income but who, instead, save it. As a
short-term argument indicating conditions
which exist during a slump the proposi-
tion has merit. Bdt it does not explain
all the causes which lead to slump and
unemployment.
The Keynes plan for full employment
starts off on the assumption that under-
investment is the root cause of unem-
ployment, and his remedy is based on re-
distribution of income from the savers
to the spenders, either by special taxation
of investors or other owners of income-
producing property or by Government
deficit-spending, the Government adopting
the role of investor. Carried to its ulti-
mate objective, the method envisages t e
“euthanasia” of the private investor, l
owner of land, machinery and otner
capital assets, as owner, gets no mcom ■
he is only remunerated for the work
does in managing them. * ntere^ nt : s
money borrowed by the Government is
eventually to be reduced to zero pan y
to discourage private saying, pa r
help investment. All this is const „ jnor
Keynes enthusiasts to constitute
revolution,” and to be preferable to
Marxist revolution. . .
Even before the ultimate stage 0
Keynes plan is reached it is 0
it is, with human nature as human
and more P articularly //„ a f®w e ntly infla-
nature, inflationary. Its inh co ntrolled
tionary proxies can „r
by the setting-up of a permanent
semi-authoritarian, State, wit P e 0 f
power over prices, differential rai
(i Continued on page 32.)
AUSTRALIAN INDEXES.
Price
Fine
Cost of Money Real Gold,
Living, Wages. Wages. oz.
1911 .. 1000 1000 1000 85s.
1914 .. 1140 1081 948 85s.
1921 .. 1680 1826 1087 106 s.
1928 .. 1675 1963 1172 85s.
1932 .. 1377 1639 1190 1455.
1939 .. 1526 1846 1211 1945.
1945 1868 2339 1252 2135.
1949 .. 2349 3210 1367 3105.*
* Closing price for year.


The Bulletin
,Vol- 71 —No. 3671
Wednesday, June 21, 1950
&V
ll
M
PUNIP^
CALLING THE TUNE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the While Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
ONE MORE STALEMATE.
Fought on the worst day known to
polling history from the point of view
of weather, the New South Wales elections
have resulted in a stalemate in which
no party can hope to govern. The dreary
landscape, as the voting took place, was
symbolical of the whole campaign and
of the state of Australian politics.
The Federal Parliament and every
State Parliament except that of South
Australia, which has stable and contented
political conditions and a Government
which even Labor hesitates to oppose,
and Queensland, which is a preserve of
“Labor” thanks to barefaced gerryman-
dering and a Government which accepts
office from a shrinking electoral minority
without a blush, are in deadlock or very
near to it, and completely unable to
function decisively as Parliaments should
function in a constitutional State.
The Commonwealth Parliament, after
an arduous four months of sitting, has
passed no legislation, entirely because of
the pre-arranged obstruction of a minority
Opposition. This, by deliberate trickery,
succeeded in maintaining in the Senate
a majority which cares nothing for elec-
toral opinion or the people’s mandate.
It is using it with complete unscrupulous-
ness., In Victoria an irresponsible
minority of 13, which calls itself a “Coun-
try party” and which only a few months
ago broke with Mr. Hollway because of
his supposed weakness in failing to apply
specific legislation to suppress Com-
munist-organised strikes, was at the week-
end reported to be bargaining for “Labor”
support by an offer to repeal the Act
altogether, a sordid and cynical trans-
action if ever there was one, if it comes
off.
Tasmania is in the doldrums politically
with another deadlock, which under its
electoral system it will be hard to break.
Westralia is in not much better condition.
And now N. S. Wales has been added to
the list under conditions which are almost
unbelievable.
The memory of its totalitarian election
Press-gag, which might have been in-
vented in Russia, should have been enough
to defeat the McGirr Government apart
from its squanderings, its deceits and its
failures and bunglings ; but on the appear-
ance of the figures at the time of writing
(June 19) it seems that if it wins two
out of three doubtful electorates, one of
which has a strong Red tinge in its union-
ism, it will scrape 46 seats out of 94.
This may permit it to govern with the
support of two “independent Labor”
members whom its executive threw out
of the fold, one of them shouting that
the Trades Hall should be renamed after
Ned Kelly.
There was a direct swing of about
60.000 votes from official Labor as com-
pared with the Federal election, though in
what seems—before'floodbound votes and
deferred poll results are known —to be
a shortened poll. Nevertheless, Labor
was able to poll just on 700,000 votes
to the morning of June 19, which is some-
thing more than 30,000 votes more than
the combined Liberal and Country
parties, in contested electorates.
In the 1947 elections, out of a
total of 1,398,000, Labor polled 653,000
votes, as against 697,000 at the incom-
plete 1950 election out of 1,425,000. The
increase in the Opposition’s votes was
largely nullified, as it was intended that it
should be, by a cunning redistribution of
seats. The increased Labor vote was en-
tirely due to. the swing to it of votes which
formerly went to Lang Labor and the
Communists, who, between them, threw
it a gift of over 50,000 votes, apart from
a share in another present of 44,000 to
parties in general by the independents,
who polled only 32,000 votes against
77.000 in 1947.
A marked Liberal gain from 430,000
votes to 540,000 and a Country-party loss
of 16,000 votes brought the combined
moderate-voter totals, however, only to
round 670,000, omitting votes not in over
the weekend after the election ; but two
Liberal and five Country-party candidates
were unopposed, as against only one
Labor man. Votes recorded from these
electorates would have made the figures
close.
But, even on the basis of equal voting,
the result is little short of incredible hav-
ing regard to the record of the McGirrs,
who went to the polls with a history such
as no other State Government has had
to carry, and which should have
assured their complete and decisive de-
struction. Their plans of socialisation,
their muddle in housing and their flagrant
misrepresentation of their achievements,
their moribund transport systems, their
general policy of wild squander, their
tolerance of wanton industrial disorder,
their exhibitions of barefaced nepotism
such as that which provided the aged
Baddeley with a life-pension of £2500 a
year, their interference with freedom of
speech and the Press and their acceptance
of the support of the Communists, two
members of whose central committee
signed' the last frantic appeal to the
N. S. Wales unions to return the Labor
Government to power, should have made
them easy-meat for well-organised and
indignant opponents.
It seems that if the moderate parties
in all States are to return to power on a
solid basis dr even to continue to survive,
they will have to look to their leadership
and to the presentation of their policies
to the electors. The N, S. Wales body
badly missed having a Menzies to lead
them. The most perfect policy has
no chance of winning an election unless
it is ably and clearly presented, which
the policy of those opposed to Labor cer-
tainly was not in the recent campaign,
even allowing for the disabilities due to
the incessant rain which damped the spirits
of workers and those directing them.
The whole result is unfortunate,
encouraging as it is to see “Labor’s”
majority in Parliament reduced to
a point at which the wings of Mr.
McGirr’s band of socialistic extremists
are severely clipped. It will put
heart in a bandit Federal Opposi-
tion, which will interpret it as" a
signal to continue to make it impossible
for a Government, in office with a decisive
majority in the popular House and an
unquestioned series of mandates, to
govern. It will strengthen the Com-
munists in knowing that in the key State
of the Commonwealth their friends and
protectors are still, if not in a position
of arrogant ascendancy, at least not
powerless. It will affect the industry
and general economy of the Common-
wealth, since it assures the continuance
for the time being of conditions under
which the coalminers and other Com-
munist-led unions can go on undermining
industry in the interests of Moscow
policy.-'
if there is another election, as it seems
that there must be before the normal
term of the new Parliament has run very
far, it must be preceded by some drastic
reorganisation of leadership and methods
in the N. S. Wales camp of free enter-
prise if Socialist Labor is not to establish
itself permanently as it has done in
Queensland through its brazen misuse of
the electoral machinery. The next chance
may be the last chance of N. S. Wales
Liberalism.
"Labor's" Veto.
Viewing Australia as standing, in the
words of Australia’s Minister for Defence
at Geneva, “on the threshold of
great economic expansion,” the political
“Labor” party’s weak point is as plain
as a boil on its neck. It has chosen a
similar objective to that of the Com-
munists —the supplanting of a democratic
Parliament by a Supreme Council of the
unions, and the same tactics for
attaining it, the “class-war.” Every
reiteration of this charge excites bellows
of protest from “Labor’s” leaders. Yet
the truth of the charge is driven home by
the best of evidence, its own actions ; and
the Australian electors accepted the in-
dictment on that head last December.
The evidence of “Labor’s” own actions
is provided by the Chifley party’s adoption
from established Communist tactics of:
The “class-war” as its general political
motive.
The defiance of authority, or refusal to
accept any authority but that of its own
creation. “Labor” is defying now the
verdict of the elections just as, when in
office, it refused to accept adverse referen-
dum decisions.
The deliberate obstruction by a minority
in Parliament of a majority decision.
There is nothing so like the Communist
bloc’s use of the veto in the U.N. Security
Council to obstruct the Potsdam agree-
ment on Allied policy as Australian
“Labor’s” use of its specially-designed
veto in the Senate to obstruct the Menzies
Government’s endorsed programme.
“Labor’s” obstruction at Canberra is, like
the Soviet’s veto at U.N.0., conceived in
party malice and used solely for minority
privilege.
The parallel persists right through the
fabric of modern “Labor” policy. The
Soviet Government, having waited im-
patiently to hail another world depression
as the dawn of universal revolutionary
violence, and being exasperated by delay
in the event, has planned the “cold war”
to force it on. Similarly, Australian
“Labor,” arm-in-arm with Moscow’s
fifth-column in this country for most of
the past four years, talked as a Govern-
ment (and still talks) about nothing but
depression—the past depression, or the
one to come. Its campaign-director,
among others, spoke of a new depression
(which he descried approaching in 1948)
as bound to provide authority for sociali-
sation to continue; and if the boosting
of already-rising prices by “Labor” when
in office —with all the consequences
attendant upon a shrinking pound-note
left for the incoming Government to
clean up—was not deliberate “Labor”
tactics, then all the looks of the thing
belied it.
Where in these pictures is the difference
between the Communist and the “Labor”
parties in purpose and practice?
“Labor” at Canberra, like the Soviet
in Europe, having reduced obstruction
to a fine art, jeers at Mr. Menzies and
Mr. Fadden just as the Soviet’s operators
jeer at the Western democracies, chiding
them that they can’t bring about peace
and reform, that they can’t restore value
to goods and wages, that they can’t do
anything at all and their pledges were
fraudulent. In an educated community
these tactics will not serve indefinitely ;
but they can, and do, make for delay
—delay in peace-making in Europe, and
delay in getting started the real job of
building Australia into a strong Pacific
nation. Australians, concentrating on
their own picture of the two, ought to
be able to place the blame for that delay
unerringly where it lies,
“Where’s the legislation you were go-
ing to pass?” and “Where’s the value you
were going to put back into the pound?”
—such are the Socialist jibes hurled at a
Ministry whose road those same Socialists
have blocked in the Senate and mean to
keep blocked while they can. The block
will be cleared ; but it will take time, and
even then the job will require, as Mr.
Menzies has made clear from the outset,
co-operation and sacrifices from all sides.
He outlined very clearly the procedure
at the elections and the country accepted
it. It was to: .
Outlaw the Communist party and liberate
the trade-unions from Communist control,
because, till that is done, production is
doomed to be limited to starvation levels
and key industries and services to be
interrupted at the wreckers’ whim.
Restore the bank board and democratic
control of the Commonwealth Bank in
place of one-man dictatorship of financial
policy.
Set a fair production-task on the coal-
fields, require the Joint Coal Board to see
that it is fulfilled and guarantee purchase
by the Government of all surplus output to
assure full employment.
Provide incentives to industrial unions
to increase production, such as payment for
increased performance, profit-sharing and
bonus schemes; and to employers by reduc-
ing taxation. Persuasion of employers to
adopt wider consultation with employees
and give them an added interest in a
common enterprise could be pointed by
making such reforms a condition of receiv-
ing Government contracts, as the Con-
servative party proposes in Britain.
In not one of these directions has
“Labor” done anything but oppose and
obstruct. The public may as well be told
without any beating about the bush that
there can be no restoring value to the
pound, no assurance of improving today’s
amende wage-standards, without co-
operation in the Government’s pro-
gramme (already endorsed at the elec-
tions) from all sides. This goes, obvi-
ously, for any Government.
The answer from the political “Labor”
party to the Menzies Government is
that if it wants to go ahead with this pro-
gramme it will have to do so alone and
by force. The equivalent answers from
the more vocal sections of “Labor’s” in-
dustrial section —but by no means repre-
sentative —are organised one-day stop-
pages of work in protest, and threats of
extended strikes to follow. The Com-
munist-bossed unions have headed this
revolt, and leaders in the A.C.T.U., while
protesting that they are fighting the Com-
munists and that their “fight” is sufficient
corrective, threaten to fall into step with
them. Mr. Chifley, with Uriah-Heep
gesticulations, jeers at the Government
from the sidelines —“I told you you
would only antagonise the unions,” and
in the same breath he says his party “de-
tests and rejects foreign isms.” This is
the man who cannot forgive the electors
for deposing him as leader of the nation.
As for low coal production, the root
of the whole trouble of shortages and the
root, too, of the evil obstruction policy,
Mr. Chifley’s erstwhile partner in the New
South Wales State Government has for
the past six months prevented, simply by
sitting down in the traces, any possibility
of forward action by the m. •
ernment Without sufficient G<>v-
bidden the country by the r °al~-for-
bosses of the miners-it s imn? 1 ?
get essential industries hL* to
houses built, transport and S?’ m ° re
services maintained, productffin y ' P
duced or industrial cutout w COsts re-
so to bring down prices and
used to declare that his Govern? Chifle V
geared the country to
sion. He geared it for depres ‘
as to run or stop at the 3 S ° muc h
button by his Communist * a
operation of his Socialist Welare I ? the
was going to push a button tol; 6 ' He
or avert a depression. All S 3 " ' Var
pushing was done by the r? butt °n-
to “hot-up” the bv ZT
Queensland, blacking-out Svd? kadin§
starving Melbourne. Where u or
learned obstruction is ‘as tSo- Labor ”
pikestaff. as P lai n as a
Having been at the
and sentenced on theirr P ? m J udged
Chifley and his party turned J*-
missed their chance in office tb
down on the job, they were at’lenS.
one of their leaders said of hil i gth (as
40 years ago) “draggS
the tart-shop,” and now they am LV from
out of the Menzies Government-?!?
country—by obstruction They?? 6
Play. Half-expecting what was L* 0 ?
happen to them at last December’s?!
tions they fashioned (in Z
mandered new Senate —“ a ni e f P y ' f
crockery,” Mr. Menzies says) and?? ° f
operating the very mSI “ofe 1 !
Russia s own weapon of obstruction-^
The veto was the identical thing which
—has the public forgotten?—Dr Evatt
Mr. Chifley s infallible constitutional
adviser, took credit for opposing as lone
as he could stand at the framing of the
Charter of the United Nations. He too
seems to have been taking his political
?T C xrri from th °i Se ,'y ho have s i nce rendered
U.N.O. unworkable by repeated use of
the veto. 1
The 1950 Vintage.
From the chairman of the Australian
Wine Board (Mr. Kenneth Hardy);
Abnormally windy and cold weather during
the flowering season in the principal wine-
producing areas in South Australia caused a
bad setting of fruit.
Better growing conditions later in the season
in that State, which produces over 75 per cent,
of Australia’s wine, have resulted in well-
balanced fruit and wine of high quality.
In the Hunter River district of New South
Wales, where some of Australia’s finest table
wines are produced, excessive rainfall reduced
the grape-harvest by 30 p.c.
The wine from this district will be of lighter
character than usual. The white wines will be
of exceptionally high quality. The red wines
from the district may not have the body of
the best years.
Production was down in the New South
Wales-Victorian border districts of Corowa and
Rutherglen, and also in the Great Western
district of Victoria, due to dry seasonal condi-
tions ; but the irrigated districts of the Mur-
rumbidgee and Murray Rivers have had normal
vintages.
There is no doubt the high quality of the
well-known Australian wines will be main-
tained. The policy of the principal winemakers
is to produce wines of consistent quality and
flavor, year in, year out. This is achieved by
blending the wines of different districts and
different years so as to produce a consistently
harmonious whole.
Although the total vintage may be smaller
than last year, Australian winemakers will have
no difficulty in producing sufficient beverage
wines this year to prevent any shortage in the
home- or export-markets. .
Stocks of wine in Australia are growing,«ana
are again at pre-war levels.
Owing to the succession of short vintages,
coupled with tremendously increased sales,
stocks of wine in bond in Australifrfell J r
18,452,705 gallons in 1939 to 13,017,194 ga on
in 1945. They returned to 20,936,769 gallons
* a also considerably greater quantities
of wine in the hands of the merchants, than m
1939, but the overall stock posnion m Aust
cannot be regarded as anything bu sa istactory
while sales remain at such a high levei
Home consumption of Australian wi s n
risen from the estimated P^-war
4.500.000 gallons a year to 12 >^X d f with
last year, but the Australian wine trade
Britain-our best pre-war, “ 3 posed
lapsed, owing to the prohibitive
by the British Government. , wines
British consumption of AMtraGin flf
dropped from the immcdiate P
3.147.000 gallons to 735,561 gallons 1 Australian
Before the war the most " type s,
wines in Britain were port “d 4s a
which cost Britons between 3s. t | ie
botUe The Bri.ish Govern™*
duty on these types from 4s. aga bottl6|
a gallon, forcing the price up
which is beyond the reach o m P afgin of
It has also reduced the P; ire wines to
preference previously B ive "* Australia's fre>S ht
20 p.c. Taking into
disadvantage compared virtue
tries, these changes and it is llot
elimination of c o| japsed.e d. , tjc
surprising that sales ha , u nsymP s
The British Gov effect on pJJJ
attitude will have a depressing war m any
to expand the industry. Sine neW vipe
ex-servicemen have been seffi rehatf ilitation
yards unto .the produce an add
?ionai e 3,000,000 gallons a custog
Sales to Canada, nexl-best mped 300 p.c. since
for Australian wines. havel i? 000 gallons.
1939, and last year totalled w


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Wool Scheme.
amidst the noise in Canberra over the
Anti-Red Bill, Minister for Commerce
M C Ewen managed to introduce a Wool
(Contributory Charge) Bill and two com-
nlementary bills aimed at popping a levy
f from 5 p.c. to 10 p.c. on wool sales to
nrovide a “stabilisation fund” out of
which growers would draw at some un-
determined future time when wool prices
ma y be below profitable margins.
1 It is, in essence, a stabilisation scheme
very similar to the wheat-stabilisation
scheme, and Mr. McEwen was careful to
state that it would not become law unless
woolgrowers approved of the general
principle. He pointed out that wool was
important to the national economy and
avoidance of “violent price-fluctuations”
concerned the community as well as the
growers.
True enough; but the growers will
need to be mighty careful about this.
Such a levy by Act of Parliament brings
Government into the picture, a dangerous
thing for a commodity which depends
for its success on free marketing and free
choice of markets for its producers. The
proposed legislation doesn’t, so far,
propose to interfere with these freedoms,
but in the hands of a future “Labor”
Government it might.
Some growers have been impelled to
support a scheme of this sort because
they believe something is necessary to
succeed the Joint Organisation scheme.
J.O. was created because of the ex-
traordinary circumstances of the 1939-45
war, which left a huge volume of war-
time surplus wool that could have re-
duced the price of post-war clips; J.O.
took over the surplus and fed it into the
post-war market so judiciously that it
had no effect on post-war wool prices ; in
fact, it rather tended to keep them a
trifle too high. The surplus is gone, and
short of another war there is no
immediate prospect of another one being
created. On the other hand, it is evi-
dent that the world is short of wool and
likely to be for years.
N.S.W. Graziers’ Association claims
that a vote of its members showed a
majority in favor of a levy to “finance a
new wool-marketing scheme.” The
claim is based on unsatisfactory grounds.
Of 9364 ballot-papers sent out, only
4518 were returned, 2317 for and 2195
against, six informal and a “yes”
majority of 122. Hardly a basis on which
to claim a decision of any sort.
This sort of voting happens with a lot
of “producers’ polls,” which is one of
the reasons why the country is infested
with commodity-control boards that,
on such a vote, begin as producer-con-
trolled shows and quickly become
bureaucratic outfits, what time the
particular commodity either becomes
scarce, too dear or goes into the bldck-
markets. Presently the very men who
voted for such boards are violently
opposed to them, but it’s too late. All
because so many refuse to record a vote
in the first place.
The idea behind the levy scheme is
fair enough—at present it is no more
than a compulsory-savings scheme. No
harm in that, provided there is some un-
assailable safeguard that it can be kept
that way. Government hands must be
kept off wool; experience over the past
10 years with wheat makes that obvious.
Unmusical Chairs in Victoria.
On Monday, five weeks after the Vic-
torian election, the political scene in that
State contained as big an element of un-
certainty as that of New South Wales,
where counting was still in progress.
Premier Hollway, due to face the
Assembly yesterday, was still being kept
in doubt whether his Government would
last out the first day of the new Parlia-
ment - His attempts to persuade the Coun-
try party to join a coalition or to adopt
a position of benevolent neutrality had
jnet with little encouragement from C.P.-
leader McDonald, who, visiting him as
he lay convalescing from a bout of sick-
ness, apparently confined his good wishes
st nctly to Hollway’s physical condition.
The truth was that McDonald was in no
state to be visiting the sick ; he was him-
? e u in the throes of acute indigestion
induced by the effort of swallowing pre-
election statements in the hope of gaining
Labor” permission to form a minority
Government of his own. “Labor” leader
Lam did not take any flowers to Holl-
ey ', he was struggling to get down a
Plateful of his own rash statements. He
had vowed on the hustings that his party
would not support either a Liberal or a
Lountry-party Government; still, from
a tactical point of view “Labor” plight
consider it well worth while to keep
divided the two parties which should be
m alliance against it.
McDonald’s effort of ingurgitation, if
he was to emulate the late Albert Dun-
stan, still apparently the spiritual leader
of the Victorian Country party, would be
rather prodigious. It is only a matter
of weeks since he told electors that the
Country party would
in no circumstances countenance the policy
of any party whose objective is socialisa-
tion of industry, production, distribution
and exchange.
Time and again he has proclaimed his
opposition to Socialism, yet if he forms
a minority Government he will not be
able to make a move that is not approved
by the Socialists. When the Lowe Com-
mission’s report on Communism was
published Mr. McDonald announced his
hopes that the Reds would be banned in
Victoria and that a bill for that purpose
“which had been prepared when the
Country party was in office was the one
that would be brought in.” Cain’s
“Labor” party is not in favor of banning
the Comrades; if McDonald wants to
“govern” he will have to swallow that.
The Country-party leader has several
times attacked Hollway for not using the
Essential Services Act; “Labor” is
bitterly opposed to this Act. Not only
would McDonald have to forgo any in-
tention of invoking the Act in return for
“Labor” support; most likely he would
have to agree in advance to its repeal.
Foolish words and foolish acts have
marked the whole course of the squabble
between the two non-“ Labor” parties in
Victoria, so perhaps it would be the ap-
propriate climax to the folly for the
baker’s dozen who comprise the smallest
party in the Parliament to set themselves
up as a Government knowing that they
could “govern” only as long as and to
the extent that their natural political
enemies allowed them.
Housing in S.A.
From H. A, Lindsay, Highgate, S.A.:
In reply to Mr. Clive Evatt’s criticism
of the S.A. Housing Trust methods (B.
14/6/’5O), it should be at once pointed
out that until quite recently cement was
in such short supply in S.A. that its use
for paths was prohibited.
As for the rest of the Evatt statements:
(1) Over a century of building experience has
shown that it is actually detrimental in some
Adelaide suburbs to trench for foundations.
There is less movement in the topsoil than in
the underlying clay; by laying foundations on
the surface the walls are less liable to crack.
Trust-home foundations are trenched, however,
in areas where it is advisable.
(2) Brick-on-edge construction for internal
walls fulfils all requirements of the State Build-
ing Act; there is no loss in strength, and a
slight gain in floor-space, as well as a big
economy in bricks. The method is also prac-
tised in W.A.
(3) The Evatt allegation in this paragraph
is quite untrue. Stoves, bath-heaters and
coppers are provided with all houses; hot-
water heaters are not provided, and if some
purchasers of homes choose to buy them on
hire-purchase that is their owil affair. Which
also applies to vacuum-cleaners and refrigera-
tors.
(4) Semi-detached houses form but a small
proportion of those built to let, and none of
those built for sale. Whole new suburbs of
Trust homes in S,A. don’t include as much
as one semi-detached residence.
(5) S.A. Trust homes are not “much smaller
than those in N.S.W. Room-sizes are prac-
tically the same; number of rooms is governed
by the size of the family which buys or rents
the finished house.
(6) The only correct statement. A constant
scrutiny is kept on specifications, but not for
the reason given by the N. S. Wales Housing
Minister. It is done on sound business grounds
in order to cut out all unnecessary frills and to
eliminate waste without sacrificing utility,
strength or appearance.
It must be admitted that S.A. Trust
homes are not as good as their designers
would like them to be ; certain economies
are necessary owing to the chronic
shortage of N.S.W. coal supplies.
Roofing-iron, guttering, piping and a host
of other fittings are still in short supply.
Incidentally, it would be interesting to
know when and where Mr. Clive Evatt
made a personal inspection of even one
S.A. Housing Trust home.
A Dollar Loan?
From Auckland; For Maorilanders, as
for Australians, knight Douglas Copland
stands out as the foremost, and almost
the lone, advocate of a dollar loan. Many
years back he got his foot on the academic
ladder as one of the pick of New Zea-
land’s young economists who crossed the
Tasman in quest of greater opportunity
and climbed to the heights. But hard-
headed MX. leaders are chary about
taking his advice to go cap-in-hand to
Uncle Sam for much-needed dollars.
They can’t forget the fix dollar borrowers
got into when the financial tide turned
strongly against them a matter of a
couple of decades ago, although they
weren’t among those who were rocked in
that boat, and they’re not sure whether
Uncle Sam would be easier to deal with
if dollar debtors ever got into rough
water again and debts became unpayable.
Trade between Maorilanders and Yanks
has always been heavily tilted in the
dollar direction, except in the past year
or so, when dollar imports have been cut
to the bone and wool has soared skyhigh,
boosting exports. In the days of free,
or nearly free, commerce, N.Z. wasn’t
worried if things were lopsided, because
it was easy to square accounts round
the triangle, through John Bull and the
sterling-exchange pool; but those days
seem a long way off to Maorilanders
now. With sterling dollars rationed,
Professor Copland’s tip is to go to Uncle
Sam direct, instead of by the old, well-
trod path.
The only catch seems to be the little
“if” on the repayment side. Can Maori-
landers afford to take the risk? Copland
has told them bluntly they can’t afford
not to take it. They’ve an unblemished
record as borrowers, a pride in their
financial independence which has kept
them out of the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund, and a tradi-
tional habit of leaning financially on John
Bull, but Uncle Sam, who has had to
dip deeply in his pocket to help those
who haven’t a chance of paying him
back,"would be likely to look on a loan
to N.Z. as a pick investment, once the
door was opened.
It’s 10 months since the first suggestion
that Maoriland should join in the queue
for dollars was made by Socialist Minister
of Finance, Walter Nash, in his final
Budget, last August, a month before the
slump in sterling. When sterling fell, the
Socialists lost some of their enthusiasm,
which wasn’t overstrong, and Mr. Nash
said in October: “The only conditions on
which negotiations for a dollar loan will
take place will be for dollar equipment
which will expand our exports to serve
and repay the loan.”
That was a few weeks before the
Socialistic landslide at the polls. Today
Mr. Nash, no longer in a position to influ-
ence ,the course of events, doesn’t look
favorably on terms Uncle Sam would be
likely to offer. A couple of days after
Professor Copland’s recent broadcast to
N.Z., Mr. Nash said: “A dollar loan
should not be raised if the interest-rate
is to be 4 p.c., which is too high.” *
Without committing itself on the loan
issuej the Holland Government has been
able to earmark enough dollars from
the sterling pool to lift purchases of
specialised, mainly farm, equipment from
the U.S.A. this year to nearly 13 million
dollars. This is a tonic to farmers who
have been crying out for tractors and
other plant. It will give a boost to the
Dominion’s basic industries and the main-
spring of its prosperity. Dollar plant will
put muscle into limited manpower.
Australians at Bottom.
Until the last couple of months a great
many Australians, learning of, or finding
themselves involved one way or another
in. Communist-led strikes and suffering
loss through them, wondered what had
happened to unionists who were,
apparently, being meekly led by their
Communist bosses into foolish and tragic
stoppages of work.
It is clear now that what had affected
them was too much Chifley. Thou-
sands of unionists put blind faith in the
Chifley Government as a “workers’ Gov-
ernment” and, at least until last year’s
coal strike, accepted the Chifley inaction
and implied support of the strikes as part
of that faith.
True, a few stronger spirits revolted
against the Reds. They got no help from
Chifley “Labor,” Expelled from unions,
blacklisted from jobs, physically
assaulted, their families threatened, they
had to carry on as best they could. From
nowhere in the “Labor” crowd at
Canberra came a word or hint of en-
couragement —indeed, the “Labor” Gov-
ernment acted as though the “rebels” de-
served all they got. Other unionists,
distant from the scene and with only
Press reports —always characterised as
“lies” by the “Labor” leaders —to guide
them, couldn’t be blamed for supposing
that the Communists must be right, since
they had the “Labor” Government’s
support.
There were signs of a change last year.
More and more unions displayed doubts
of their Communist leaders. The coal
strike opened thousands of eyes. Cost of
living under the “Chifley quid” caught up
with the big-money picnic; the coal
strike cost thousands up to 14 weeks’ loss
of wages. Even Mr. Chifley himself could
no longer put the blame on the bosses.
Scared by the effect on the imminent
election. Federal “Labor” came out with
big advertisements condemning the
Communists and the strike. This con-
fused many workers, and brought many
others to a stark realisation of how they’d
been duped for years.
After the Federal election Aus-
tralians of all classes realised that they
had a Government which intended to
govern and fulfil its election promise to
pull down the Communist conspiracy.
Workers who listened to Mr. Menzies’s
charges against the Communists in the
preamble to the Anti-Red, Bill couldn’t
escape the truth of it. That speech was
the second eye-opener.
In May the Communists tried to call
big strikes against the bill. Union after
union turned a deaf ear to them; some
began throwing out Communist officials
and warning others. Given a lead at last,
and convinced that the shilly-shallying at
Canberra had ended, thousands of
unionists proved that they were Austra-
lians at heart, however much they might
oppose the Menzies-Fadden parties
and however much they might seek
higher wages and other things.
Last Wednesday the Communists
called stop-works to “discuss” the Anti-
Red Bill, plainly aiming at a general
strike. Although Canberra “Labor,” now
in Opposition, was —and still is—trying
to hamstring the bill, the stop-work
ineetings in four capital cities either flatly
refused to consider strikes against the bill
or broke strike resolutions down to threats
to strike if certain things happened.
Many unionists refused to stop work
at all. Where they attended meetings in
force they condemned the Reds. An
A.R.U. member summed up the feelings
of thousands: —
Wc lost £2 in wages because of the one-
day stoppage, but it was the best £2 we ever
lost. We told the Communists what we
thought of them.
And, most significant of all, a Communist
plan to call stop-works in the N.S.W.
coalmines on Monday collapsed because
a powerful section of the miners wouldn’t
have it on.
The Communists can be in no doubt
what the vast majority of Australians,
workers and employers alike, think of
them. It is a heartening sign that, given
the lead by Mr. Menzies which they
ought to have got from Mr. Chifley—
and didn’t — unionists have shown
they’ve no more time for traitors than
anyone else.
Binghi, M.P.?
The “Labor” party’s proposal that abo-
rigines should be given separate repre-
sentation in the Federal Parliament is the
first expression of any ideas its leaders
may have had when they sought at their
1944 fourteen-points referendum (de-
feated) in powers “to legislate for people
of the aboriginal race.”
Nobody knew what the Chifley Gov-
ernment wanted to do then, or has heard
since, until Mr. Beazley (W.A.), support-
ing a private member’s motion in Par-
liament a fortnight ago by Mr. Hasluck
(also of W.A.), suggested Parliamentary
representation. The idea was hinted
at by Mr. Hasluck three months earlier.
Mr. Chifley has now announced his
Caucus’s decision to support Parliamen-
tary representation as its policy.
Maori seats in the N.Z. Parliament are
the obvious example. But it seems clear
that much preliminary reform will have
to come about before the idea of an
aboriginal M.P. becomes a reality. He
would almost inevitably be a half-caste,
anyway, and sooner or later represent
chiefly half-castes. Or is he to be a white
Australian representing the half-castes
and full-bloods?
Mr. Hasluck’s motion was at least
immediately practical, and what he urged
would seem to claim priority over merely
Parliamentary representation. It was that
the Commonwealth Government should
in co-operation with the States prepare
“a truly national programme,” to cover
the coming two or three generations,
“directed to the social advancement of
the native people.” He wants State
administration of native affairs to con-
tinue and the work of Christian missions
to be assisted. He said that, of 71,895
full-bloods and 25,000 half-castes num-
bered today, one-third are nomadic,
slightly fewer were in some sort of em-
ployment, and the rest were in supervised
camps.
Meanwhile the W.A. Commissioner for
Native Affairs has issued some scarify-
ing comments in his annual report for
the past year and published the other
day in Perth. While the condition of
native settlements had been greatly im-
proved, there is, he states, “a growing
feeling of resentment and bitterness be-
tween white and hybrid populations that
is bordering on class-hatred.”
Generally speaking, interest in the native
is manifested only from the economic point
of view. The native is welcomed at harvest,
mustering, shearing and similar agricultural
and pastoral times of need, or when he or
(Continued on next page.)


m
11
They satisfy
In every way . • •
CRAVENA
€i
N
&
>
V"
ckM F.-'P-
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER ISO YE.ARS REPMIATIUiTFoOjL
she has need, or when he or she has wages
or child-endowment money to spend in the
towns, but is expected to get back to the
reserve or camp as soon as possible after
the job is completed or the money spent.
He was then to stay out of sight, and
presumably out of mind, until again
required.
Essential to improvement of status, he
said, is improvement in living conditions
for the children. Life in camps and re-
serves offers no chance for the children.
Yet “efforts to secure a more suitable
home for native girls than the one in East
Perth were frustrated by the prejudice ol
a certain section of the community.
This report records that since 1903
half-caste numbers have increased fro
903 to 6039 and full-bloods have falle.
from°l2,BBB in 1917 to 10,724 lastjeat.
Full-blood population in W.A. is decrea
m Some 1 enlightened effort to r ede e rn the
depressed social status of both e
and half-castes seems consrderaWy m
important than the provision of a nan
M.P.’s seat in a Parliament
by party-politics, and to be a
first step anyway.
POLITICAL POINTS
Since no one expects the leaders of
political parties to prophesy their own de-
feat, thereby inviting it, only a carping
critic would find fault with a pre-election
forecast a few seats in excess of reality.
But there is a limit. Two days before the
New South Wales election “Labor’s”
campaign-director, W. E. Dickson, M.L.C.,
with the sage remark that “judging an
election result is not a matter of working
out figures or surrounding oneself with
graphs.«■ One is likely to get entangled
with them,” told Sydney “Sun” that he
had “never felt more confident” about
“Labor’s” chances. He prophesied a
“Labor” majority of at least 18, possibly
24. The reality, in the cold light of the
morning after—“ Labor,” 46; Liberal
and Country parties, 46 ;
Labor,” thrice rejected and scorned by
Dickson’s executive, but now to be wooed
with sweet words and promises, two.
Roman soothsayers could get better re-
sults than that by examining a sheep’s
entrails; Dickson had better stick to
figures and graphs.
McGirr’s own tip wasn’t so far out.
He said early in the campaign, though
he upped his figures later, that he ex-
pected a majority of three or four. He
didn’t say whether he counted unendorsed
“Labor” blokes among his majority.
Though the McGirr Government has
little to rejoice at in the result of the
election, heads at the Trades Hall will be
even sorer than in Macquarie-street. Of
the four sitting members whom the
executive refused to endorse, two,
Geraghty in North Sydney and Seiffert
in Monaro, won easily—the dictators
could not even find a man to carry the
official banner against Seiffert —and if
Stanley loses Lakemba it will only be-
cause the Communist candidate’s prefer-
ences favored official “Labor.” Only in
Barwon did the official nominee poll
belter than the unendorsed man, Heferen.
For the Liberal and Country parties
the lesson of the election is that they
cannot afford to waste time and votes in
fighting each other. Despite their avowed
intention of forming a coalition Govern-
ment and their agreement for exchange
of preferences they did not campaign aS
a closely-knit alliance; there were too
many three-cornered fights in which votes
were inevitably lost to “Labor.” In the
evenly-divided state of the Australian
electorate there is no room for private
wars between the parties opposed to
Socialism.
How will the “Labor” obstruction
majority in the Senate construe the
N’S.W. State election? Is it a warrant for
provoking a double-dissolution over the
anti-Communist Bill, or not? McGirr
should have had the plainest warning,
on the figures, that “Labor’s” flirtation
with the Commos, whether as separate
“political philosophers,” or as rivals for
control of the industrial movement, has
gone quite far enough for safety’s sake.
McGirr has only to meet coal trouble
now and the acid test will be on him.
If the Victorian Country party,
13 strong in the Assembly, succeeds
in forming a Government it will be like
the Liberian army—all officers and no
privates. Still, its Ministers won’t be
overworked ; 1 “Labor’s” shadow cabinet
will be on hand to make their decisions
for them.
The word “mandate” has been flung
back and forth across the House of
Representatives and the Senate chamber
many times a day during the present
session. Menzies, at his Sydney Town
Hall meeting which the Reds tried un-
successfully to break up last week,
summed up “Labor’s” attitude towards
election mandates pretty well:
The view of the Labor party, I regret
to say, is that while you may do a thing
without a mandate if you get the chance,
it is your duty to use your Senate majority
to prevent the will of the people from
being carried out.
Items for which he claimed to have re-
ceived a mandate last December were:
(1) to change the Chifley banking legis-
lation ;
(2) to bring in endowment for the first
child;
(3) to ban the Communist party.
Bills on all three subjects have been
blocked by “Labor’s” big battalions in
the Senate.
It is not fair to Clive Evatt to suggest
that he lays all the foundation-stones for
Housing Commission buildings; in some
cases the job is done by deputy. Last
Thursday, for example, the foundation-
stone of a block of flats at Queanbeyan
was laid, rather unenthusiastically, by
Seiffert, M.L.A. for Monaro, one of the
four unendorsed “Labor” men whose
dumping by the A.L.P. executive caused
the No-I-will-yes-I-won’t resignations of
McGirr a couple of months ago. Liberal-
leader Treatt introduced a jarring note
into what might otherwise have been a
happy day for Queanbeyan. Pointing
out that the wall in which the stone was
laid could not be part of a building be-
cause there were no footings in it, he
prophesied that the wall would be pulled
down and the stone taken away after the
elections and shifted somewhere else. He
added: —
Before the last elections the Government
laid a foundation-stone at Orange for a
technical high school. A few weeks later
the stone was taken away, and there is no
technical high school at Orange yet.
Orange was a “Labor” seat at the time
that stone was laid; it was lost by 1200
votes at the 1947 election.
How to become a baron in a Socialist
State. In 1945 Lieutenant-Colonel Harry
Morris won a Sheffield seat in the Com-
mons as a Labor candidate. In February,
1950, under redrawn boundaries, he won
the Neepsend seat with a big majority.
A London “Times” thumbnail biography
shows him to be a barrister and solicitor,
a soldier in two wars and a sometime
member of Sheffield City Council. He
also “played football until he was 40.”
He’s now 57, A fair record, but except
for the football, it could probably be
equalled by thousands in Britain. There’s
one more point, though. Shortly after
the last election he resigned his seat; at
the subsequent by-electi®n Sir Frank
Soskice, Attlee’s Solicitor-General, who
had been defeated in the general election,
got back into the Commons.
Daly (Lab.) was heard in the Canberra
Parliament last week loudly demanding
that the Menzies Government carry out
its election promise to put value back into
the £. Government members politely
refrained from reminding “Dollars” that
if he hadn’t scattered hard-to-get dollars
about while jaunting abroad under the
Chifley aegis, people could perhaps take
him seriously.
There is no evidence that Chifley and
Evatt adopted The Bulletin’s suggestion
of putting the onus of proof on Senator
Morrow to justify his scurrilous allega-
tions against Old Digger Brigadier
Hinton, but some of his caucus col-
leagues are uneasy and unhappy about
other of the Senator’s activities. Mullens,
M.H.R. for Gellibrand (Vic.), criticised
Morrow for his Anti-Red-bill speech,
which he claimed “lined the A.L.P. up
with the Communists.” The same could
be said of several other “Labor” speeches,
but Morrow’s seemed like a one-sided
eulogy of the Soviet. He attacked the
bill root and branch, though when the
time came for voting on the second read-
ing he tactfully absented himself. Ac-
cording to report, Chifley told caucus
that Morrow’s attendance at the Peace
Congress in Melbourne was a matter for
the Tasmanian executive ; he emphasised
the right of caucus members to “have
varying views on philosophical prob-
lems.” Communism is still apparently a
“political philosophy” to Chifley; he
could hardly criticise Morrow when he
has admitted that he is wholly opposed
to the bill himself.
His supporters claim for Britain’s
Chancellor, Stafford Cripps, a very
logical mind. Here’s an example of it in
action, justifying his increase of nine-
pence a gallon in the petrol tax:
We are one of the few countries that
have not yet tried to persuade users to
economise in petrol—a commodity still
very expensive in dollars —by means of
price-increases The time has come when
some of the other automatic methods of
restricting the consumption of petrol, such
as the shortage of vehicles, are disappear-
ing, so that* fiscal inducements to economy
have become necessary. Indeed, it is
difficult to think out a better case for
increased taxation.
Having thought it out and having an-
nounced the ninepence increase, he there-
upon abolished petrol-rationing.
The Democratic Rights Council,
whose main concern seems to be to
ensure that Communists secure the demo-
cratic rights they deny to others, is rais-
ing a fund to pay the fare to England
of Thomas Kaiser, who, while over there
last time at public expense, demonstrated
outside Australia House against the jail-
ing of Communists during the 1949 coal
strike. Kaiser complains that he is unable
to get a .scientific job in Australia, and
that* he hopes to find some institution in
England “where scientific and academic
qualifications of an individual are given
preference over his political views.” If
that’s all he wants why doesn’t he try
Moscow, where the political views of
scientists are never questioned?
Soekarno, the greedy boy of Djakarta,
is still touring his lightly-won and loosely-
held dominions, repeating his demands
for Dutch New Guinea —to which he
now seems to have added Papua —and
encouraging mobs who have probably
scarcely heard of the place to shout
“Irian.” It’s all strangely reminiscent of
Mussolini’s triumphal progresses round
about 1939, when his appearance used to
be the signal for a claque of “students”
to shout “Nice!, Tunisia! Malta!” A
similarity Soekarno might do well to
ponder over.
Strachey got back to England from a
visit to Malaya in his capacity as War
Minister muttering some rubbish about
advancing democracy in Malaya and en-
couraging trade-unionism there as a
means of combating Communist violence.
A day or two after he got this off his
chest six British soldiers, three policemen
and a shopkeeper in different parts of
Malaya were murdered by Communist
terrorists. Strachey should have been
left to his peanut-growing in Africa ; he
could lose only taxpayers’ money there,
A few days before the N.S.W. election
McGirr’s Minister Finnan heard that be-
cause the Victorian Prices Control had
refused an increase in the price of onions,
the tearful vegetables were being carted
over the border for sale in N.S.W. Finnan
promptly announced a blockade of the
border at Albury to stop the nefarious
practice. While Finnan is reflecting on
Saturday’s results, he could profitably
study Section 92 of the Commonwealth
Constitution, which doesn’t allow border
blockades between Australian States.
Latest from that “elder statesman” of
the N.S.W. “Labor” outfit, Mr. Badly,
now Director of State Coalmines, on a
seven-years’ contract: “Five hundred tons
of Awaba coal is equal to 750,000 kilo-
watt-hours, which is sufficient t .
normal suburban electric t * driVe a
around the world.” i t would once
fun to see Mr. Badly allowed
of any sort of coal and start^ff 5 ? 0 , tons
any suburban train, normal nr 0 drivs
along the tracks of Phffieas p bnorma l
may well, from his na m 7
of Mr. Badly’s ancestors! aVe been one
Adelaide has closed its c
Bntam appeal, having acnarLi
that the sending of foodie ' d f ideJ
safely be left to the generositv nf n ° W
viduals. The South Australia *®di>
the first to begin the great food-snrT’
era in Australia, and it fought the r2'«” 8
Government to a knock-™,* ne ,Chifley
Federal Food Controller soughM**
charge of the whole thing and b° ake
under bureaucratic control Th P t™ 8 *
city has many things to be
its history; it can place its Pol?* ln
Britain record near the top of ffie jtt^'
While Premier Hanlon’s p rm ,j
stiH howhng about Victoria and South
Australia buying overseas coal instead ,
that from Queensland’s Callide w
Australian Premier Playford b’lew° Ub
looked over Callide, mordantlv vem*
that Callide coal was loaded with rovaf
ties of 3s. 2d., road tax of ss. and cartSe
cost of 30s. to port, a total of 38 s ?d
a ton, plus shipping freight of £2 He
a ton to Adelaide (it’s £1 is* V
and Said dev '™
ment of the field as a national not a
State, asset would be urged upon the
Federal Government. After which the
man from South Australia departed in a
shocked silence.
Commenting that Kim Beazley’s sug-
gestion of an aboriginal M.H.R would
require an amendment of the Constitu-
tion and would create a dangerous prece-
dent of sectional representation, Lang’s
“Century” suggested a way whereby
Brown Brother could get into the Reps
“Labor” could endorse him for Fre-
mantle. Kim’s reply hasn’t been heard
yet.
It’s bad enough to have a railway-track
running across the end of the main run-
way at Mascot, an international airport,
but why did a coal train have to pull up
and wait just there when the runway was
in use? Just to maintain the Railway De-
partment’s contention—as explained in the
Press—that the railways ’ have a prior
right to the end of the runway because
they “were there first”? On all experience
a narrow escape is hardly sufficient to stir
somebody into doing something—there
will have to be a fatal smash first.


-
swade
THE LEGACY.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Pawang”: Humanity seems to be
coming to the end of its honeymoon with
the “wonder drugs” that were going to
eliminate all the ills of the flesh. Accord-
ing to Doctor Levon Terzian, of the
U.S. Naval Research Institute, drugs like
penicillin and streptomycin combat certain
infections but increase susceptibility to
"Oh, cook's one of the family now — she's been with us for about nine
meals."
others. Moreover, he fears that antibiotic
drugs may interfere with the body’s
normal chemical processes, which ordin-
arily ensure some measure of immunity,
as in China, where smallpox is endemic
and almost everybody is «immune or
partly so through contact and where an
epidemic automatically disappears when
it has wiped out the unimmunised. It
appears that in the case of penicillin some
germs evolve newer and hardier strains
more-dangerous than the old ones. That
happened with the Singapore mosquito.
After the authorities started making pools
of fresh water untenable for the pest, it
was found that in parts the wogs had
not diminished ; they had developed a
strain which could breed in salt or
brackish water, and it was beyond the
resources of the authorities to oil the
surface of the ocean.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: How close kids uncon-
sciously get to the truth! In our town
unfortunate travellers by rail can’t escape
the blare of electioneering microphones
from the main street. Waiting on the
railway platform last week was a young
mother with her five-year-old son. From
somewhere out of sight a raucous voice
was extolling the wonderful benefits
humanity had received from the bountiful
hands of Mr. McGirr. With his nose
between the pickets, the kid was obvi-
ously mystified as to the source of the
endless flow of words. Finally he turned
to his mother, a solution
“Mum, is there a circus over there?”
The mother’s lugubrious smile spoke of
years of “had it.” “No,” she chuckled ;
“but there’s not much difference.”
♦ * * *
“Kelms”: Anyone want to lease a
town? There’s one going in W.A. It
consists of a complete alunite plant,
with the addition of “45 houses, staff-
quarters, business premises, powerhouse,
etc.” The last item includes a gallon
license, to be held by the manager of the
industry. The town is Chandler, situated
not far from Merredin, a prosperous
wheatbelt junction, and the State Govern-
ment reckons there’s an opportunity there
for anyone who can make plaster-of-
paris and can find £15,000 a year for
the lease.
* * * *
The fade-out of Anthony
Eden from politics is prophesied as a
result of his appearance in the Divorce
Court; although he was the complaining
party, divorce traditionally has become a
reason for political oblivion in Britain.
.In the Victorian era the Queen’s very
decided views on the matter established
the rule. One great figure to suffer eclipse
was Sir Charles Dilke, who loomed at
one time as a jwtential Prime Minister.
He was a man of great ability, but the
mention of his name in a divorce action
caused the abrupt throwing-in of the poli-
tical towel. He spent some time in Aus-
tralia'until the scandal blew over and
had a lot of Australian interests. The
matrimonial troubles of many Australian
politicians were notorious, but the bar
to politics did not arise until women had
been given the franchise. Then, in
N.S.W., one of Holman’s Ministers
announced his retirement from politics
when his wife threatened an action for
divorce. He sacrificed himself rather
than risk embarrassment to his party ;
actually the divorce did not take place.
“M.H.E.”: It surely wasn’t a Scot who
wrote in B. 14/ 6/ ’5O on the habit of
people who insist on describing “Mrs.
Macquarie’s Chair” in Sydney as “Lady
Macquarie’s Chair.” It was the custom
in Scotland, and especially in the Isles,
right up to fairly modern times to refer
to the wife of a laird as “Lady So-and-
so.” No tenant or Scottish servant in
Mull would have been likely to speak of
Mrs. Macquarie, wife of the registered
Laird of Jarvisfield, as anything but “Lady
Macquarie.” However, a little ignorance
in newspaper writers may be forgiven
when it is remembered that for many
years the public trust which manages
Vaucluse House, the old home of W. C.
Wentworth, exhibited in that historic
dwelling a cheap ring which was de-
scribed as having been given to one of
her ladies-in-waiting by Lady Bligh, the
wife of Governor Bligh. More than one
protest failed to induce the trust to alter
this inscription, despite the facts (1) that
Mrs. Bligh was not a “Lady,” (2) that
she was never in . Sydney, and (3) that
Governors’ wives in those days did not
run to “ladies-in-waiting.”
* * * *
“Billy S.”: Full marks to “Billy T.”
for his vivid imagination in the sketch
of the pukka sahib in Calcutta complete
with Aussie hat, English bike and
German dachshund (B. 7 / 6/’5O), but I
must protest on behalf of the service
types who wore the hats in those parts.
In' the Air Force at least. Digger hats
were known as “I-was-there” hats, and in
fact were only issued to personnel serving
in battle areas in Eastern Bengal and
Assam. I knew a type in Calcutta who
sported Aussie hat, English bike andi
German dachshund. He and I were
statipned for a few weeks in Calcutta
Fighter Operations-roorh. From the
platform on which we sat overlooking
the plotting-table we could see into the
Army Gun Ops.-room, separated from us
only by plate-glass. On duty in that room
were some of Calcutta’s loveliest young
things. “Billy T.” can take it from me
that the dachshund in question was an
investment, and was largely responsible
for its owner’s striking up an acquaint-
ance with one of the girls in that room
and eventually marrying her. A door at
the back of the platform opened into the
back of Gun Ops.-room, and I well re-
member the day I held that door open
while the scheming pukka sahib sooled
his pup in amongst the girls. It might
interest “Billy T.” to know that the
pukka sahib I have in mind —quite prob-
ably" the one he wrote about —had at
an earlier stage in the war accumulated
many hours flying out-of-date short-
nosed Blenheims in the Norway stunt.
* * * *
“Ron L”: Female silhouettes on the
wall of a tent (“Vingter,” B. 31/5/’5O)
are not always a tantalising simulation
projected by a practical joker with a
windowdresser’s model. One such revela-
tion, sprung into life unexpectedly, came
close to breaking up what had always
been looked upon as an ideal family
unit. 1 was one of a large motor-touring
party a few years ago which, on the
fourth day out, pulled into a camping-
ground just as daylight was being pre-
maturely blotted out by the low-lying
clouds of an oncoming storm. While we
were settling-in an invitation arrived for
as many as liked to attend a bridge-party
at the local hall. Two teams of enthusi-
asts were mustered, and they duly trudged
off in the rain, but the sudden rising of a
creek compelled them to scam
early to avoid being cut off f r ba <*
camp. Pitch-black darkness of
pelting rain and unfamiliar territ? 6 bush >
bmed to make the homeS Com ‘
difficult and eerie. StumblTnJ d ]ourne y
tent, one chap flashed a torch a ® amst a
interior. Instantly there was lim ° the
the tent wall a pair 0 f canoodle®^ 0 "
was obviously a moment of oscillatory
fervor. For just a few fleeting seconds
the watchers outside, fascinated by the
spectacle, forgot the rain, the mud and
their sodden clothes. The swift dousing
of the picture was prompted by the fact
that the scared looks caught in the beam
of the light came from the husband of
a woman who had been away with the
bridge fans and of a demure little lass
who, so far on the jaunt, had kept pretty
much to herself. But this was revealed
only to the bloke behind the torch and
he kept mum; unless, of _ course, I
blabbed the secret out in my sleep at
some time or other.
* * * *
“Zake”: Sydney motorists, harassed by
a city parking position which has be-
come almost impossible and from which
they see no relief in the foreseeable
future, have become more or less
reconciled to being made the subject
of specialised taxation of doubtful
legality by seaside councils, who
are on to them like harpies for
parking fees if they dare to pull up
where they may get a view of the ocean.
Everywhere he goes he is thus socked,
from a visit to’any Government recreation
area to a football match. As one of
thousands of the sufferers I herewith
launch a movement for the suppression
of a newsreel now going the rounds
showing the running of the 1950 English
Derby. A shot was given of an area
reserved for car-parking. Fee was A.
If our brambles and bureaucrats get an
eyeful of that we’re sunk!
*** * . .
“Clooter”: I doubt if the community is
grateful enough to some of the headhne-
writers in the newspapers. one f “
put up this in a Sydney Sunday paper
recently: Floods at Forbes Today. I
was in exactly the same tone as oto
headlines which variously Dogs a t
Races at Wyong Today football
Harold Park Tonight or Big Foottw
This Afternoon or something h e a
Any headline-writer who ca “ rs d in
flood as something to be an n ora d
a tone which
should come early if ! he JJ a g f disii .
is worth treasuring in *}?
lusionment, disaster and #
“Caballer”: Arabic P^ eS an d (B a
7/6/’50)? A short
long cane enabled me to g q{
amount of work out of a team o uj
at Heliopolis in 1915. Jj ered into
opening sentence which, nm have
English, was “Offspring ost useless
forgotten the words. Th seif-
and brainless of the | the war he
appointed foreman. Beto e qQ eX .
had worked for an E g words of
cavations and spok 0 f all the
English. It was his boart that*
hundreds of men empl V Engh sh
he was the only one to the others
man had given a n ame 0n a e U da y after a
were merely numbers. ian ’ s capa
special exhibition of the I le job I
city to mess up the, mos‘ g,«n.
inquired the name he nau
It was Prize Idiot.
QUICK-CHANGE ARTIST.
“Sydney ‘Mirror,’ not unfriendly to ‘Labor,’ has
called the Leader of the Opposition ‘Chameleon
Ohifley’ because of his criticism of the Menzies
Government’s fiscal policy.”
“You used to call me Abe,” said Ben;
“Now make me several other men;
As Lincoln, I could drain my sink
Of tears into the listeners’ pink;
But noble thoughts, and all that stuff,
Are not —you understand? —enough.”
“Then be,” said Bert, “a man of law,
Amending every legal flaw.”
Said Ben, “I’m tired of your amendments—
Why, you’d amend the Ten Commandments!’
“In view,” said Bert, “of ‘Labor’s’ platform.
The Tenth can’t stand, or not in that form.”
“Then keep it dark,” said Ben. “You seem
To be a little off the beam.”
“Sorry,” said Bert. “Don’t think me rude.
But why not Fraser’s attitude?”
“So brave!” said Ben. “The boy-debater
Calling Bob Menzies a dictator;
Baring his winter underwear
To bullets we all knew weren’t there!
No; Duthie and our Melbourne cobber
Were more effective, with the slobber,
But still I need some other kind—
I can’t get Guy Fawkes out of mind”
“But that,” said Bert, “is Rosie’s part; ,
The Senate knows it, too, by heart;
You couldn’t do much more, discreetly,
Unless you blew them up completely”
“Now, Bert,” said Ben, “don’t act so green.
That wouldn’t be See what I mean?”
“I don’t,” said Bert. “You make my head rock.
So Ben, let’s both get down to bedrock;
I’ll simplify the case a lot —
Now: Are we Communists, or not?”
“Ah, well,” said Ben, “I fail to see
What that’s to do with you or me.”
Said Bert, “It seems I’m groping still.
Look: Aren’t we talking of the Bill?”
"What Bill?” said Ben. “You’re off the track.
I only think of Getting Back.”
“Heavens!” said Bert. “You had me scared!
Why, Ben, I didn’t know you cared!”
Said Ben, “When you’re the great I AM,
It’s pleasant not to give a damn;
It’s not so pleasant to be Out,
With nothing not to care about.
So rack your brains, and rack McKenna's
For someone I’ll get in again as,
And meanwhile block all legislation,
And play the devil with the nation:
The people welshed on me. I know ’em”
“Yes, yes,” said Bert. “Well, now we’ll show
’em! ”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Sixenate”; Denying that he had been
responsible for the first separation be-
tween himself and his wife, a petitioner
for divorce on the grounds of desertion
said that, in the first place, he had left
home at his wife’s request. “What do
you mean by at your wife’s request?”
the judge demanded testily. “What,
actually, did she say?” The petitioner
hesitated a moment; then he launched
it: “She said ‘Get to blazing hell out of
this. Get outer that blanky door before
I split your blanky skull with this blanky
axe.’ ” The judge gulped, and decided
that that would be taken as a “request
to leave.”
* * * *
“Bo”: A minor racket that has sprung
up lately is to sock concert-goers a bob
for a programme. As the advertisements
must more than pay for the modest cost
of printing, the increase is bad enough
when the programme carries extensive
annotations; it is extra tough when the
programme, as has happened lately, is a
flimsy four-page affair which carried a
bare announcement of the numbers to be
given by the recitalist. It becomes really
farcical when those in the cheapest seats
pay three bob to hear the music and a
third as much for a 10-second glance at
the programme. Perhaps there is a
reason, though. When I twitted one
impresario about “making a forch” —his
man was playing to good houses —he
poured out a tale of the harshness of
the terms to which the virtuoiso had
pinned him down, and swore he’d be
losing money on the venture but for the
sale of the programmes
* * * #
“Laetitia”; In a quarter-century of free-
lancing I’ve often longed for the wealth
of a wharfie so that I could buy up news-
papers just for the satisfaction of sacking
the sub-editorial morons who mutilate my
beautiful copy. Today in my grey hairs
I rose up and called one of the tribe
blessed. Deputed by my new public-
service boss to prepare a statement sought
by . a daily, I turned over to him the
finished product and awaited his acclaim.
His twitching nostrils told me that he
viewed as stinkwort the simple flowers
of prose that had gone into the handout.
The chief then rewrote the whole thing,
thereby achieving just the sort of effort
that I would have concocted 25 years ago
in my callow unawareness of the warped
judgment of sub-editors. Proudly he
showed me his effort with the unspoken
suggestion that it was a miracle that a
single line of mine had ever seen print.
Came the evening edition with the boss’s
ppus so subbed that it was almost
identical with my original copy.
* * * *
“Villefair”: Clive Evatt must be
wondering if there was no coal strike
last year in the districts where you people
have been having trouble to get trees cut
down and removed (B. 7/6/’so>. No
matter how 1 misshapen, debilitated or
potentially dangerous the tree, the Hous-
lng Commission of N.S.W. will never
allow it to be cut down unless it is on the
actual site of a building. Although an
occasional tenant endangered life, limb,
roof-tiles, guttering and tenancy by lop-
ping the tops off trees, the edict used to
be, in general, obeyed. Then came the
coal strike —and lack of gas. Most of
the houses had open fireplaces, but wood-
fuel cost money and was almost unpro-
curable, anyhow, A suburban tomahawk
is not the best of tools for tree-felling,
INWMAtION
UMDIn
“And who told YOU?”
nor is the average tenant of a H.C. house
an expert axeman, but the sound of chop-
ping was heard on every hand. The pro-
cedure seemed to be to hack at a trunk
about 4ft. above the ground until con-
stant pummelling worried the wood down
like a pencil sharpened by a woman. At
thjs stage fear generally began to creep
into the hatchet-man’s heart; for the first
time he realised the proximity of the elec-
tricity wires. A puff of wind arriving
with the realisation turned him into a
human brace leaning against the treelet,
at an angle of 45 degrees, while his yells
for assistance throbbed like a war-drum.
If his neighbor didn’t happen to be caught
in the same predicament help arrived
promptly. And thus was the falling fuel
diverted from the street wires—on to
the roof guttering. There is no need to
take my word for this; just take a stroll
around a Housing Commission settle-
ment and note the tree stumps —and the
roof-gutters,
« * * *
‘Feng-Shui”: Although I have no
sympathy whatever for Indonesian claims
to New Guinea, I cannot accept Dr.
Evatt’s reason for denying the claim;
namely, that “the Wallace line” separates
New Guinea from Asia and places it in
the Pacific, out of Indonesia’s legitimate
reach. If Dr. Evatt is right, then the abo.
has a good case for the return of his
country to its original possessors,
inasmuch as the Wallace line separates
not only Asia, but Europe and therefore
Britain from Australia, thus, to use the
doctor’s logic, putting it out of the legi-
timate reach of the British. Dr. Evatt is
a learned man and ought to know that
the “line” that Alfred Russel Wallace dis-
covered was a geological division. While
sojourning in the Aru Islands, a great
poaching-ground once for Australian
pearlers, he observed, as every visitor
observes, that the divisions between the
islands are curiously like canals and all
run more or less, in the same direction.
He came to the conclusion that they were
the beds of great rivers that originated
in the high mountains of New Guinea,
although there were hundreds of miles
of ocean between their present mouths
and Aru. From that he deduced a land
subsidence which had separated Aus-
tralasia from Asia, the gum-tree from
Asiatic flora and the abo. from the
Malayan and other races a long way back
in pre-history. If events of this sort,
which occurred perhaps a couple of
million years ago, are to be accepted as
determining factors in modern political
adjustments, Dr. Evatt’s simian ancestry
ought to be taken into account as a deter-
mining factor in hfs eligibility for a seat
in the Parliament.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: There is a move to put
The Term of His Natural Life into a
talkie—there were three picture-versions
made of it in the old “silent” days. Rose
Bay provided the setting for one in the
long ago; the area was then mainly
bush, and rolling sand-dunes extended
between the bay and Bondi and an old
smithy stood at the foot of the road-
climb above Vaucluse. At the end of one
"Tea HAS revived you , Mr. Smith!”
day’s film-making the key for the hand-
cuffs that had been clamped on the wrists
of Gus Neville, who was playing Rufus
Dawes, had been mislaid, so some of the
players, still in the convict clobber of
the film, took him to the smithy to have
the irons filed ojf. The smith was a law-
abiding citizen ; while he parleyed with
the intruders, whose story about picture-
making he regarded as a crude fiction,
his wife flew to a near-by phone to ring
up the police. That was why a rumor
shortly swept Sydney that party of
escaped convicts had held-up the smithy
at Rose Bay, and a posse of mounted
police at full gallop dashed out to the
bay, whilst other police followed by van
and cycle—there were no police-cars
then. Gus and his colleagues at length
satisfied the cops as to their bom fides,
but it was warm while it lasted.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Sydney’s poshest golf-
course lies between our suburb and the
city, and, as a result of the rains which
have deluged the place lately, most of the
fairways are lakes. It appears that our
drunk left a friend’s place on one of the
wettest nights, decided to cut across the
course to a bus-stop, floundered through
the flooded fairways for a while, even-
tually found a small knoll above water-
level and there took refuge. Later,
anxious inquiries from his home to the
friend’s place resulted in a search-party
setting forth into the streaming night.
It located him at last, a huddled, saturated
figure, and carted him to the road. In
the car he revived a little and moaned,
“Blue me, am I dry. Anyone got a
drink?” An impatient rescuer snapped,
“Whyinell didn’t you have a drink out
there? There was enough water, wasn’t
there?” “Too right,” came back our
drunk, “but I had nothin’ to put in it.”
* * *
“Cine Ma”: It had to come. U.S,
Army Signals have developed the phono-
video. When you ring up a person his
or her image leaps into sight on a screen
built at head-level. At the same time
your own visage appears on a similar
screen at the other end. The illusion is
said to be so perfect that you seem to
be in the presence of your corresponding
number. The device will be of immense
value to wives when their husbands ring
up with the traditional formula: “Sorry,
I won’t be home tonight, dear. I’ve got
to work back.” To make facial expres-
sion coincide with verbal statement is,
as all psychologists will agree, a very
difficult business.
* ~ *
“Spare Corp”: The First A.I.F.
generally associated “mad majors” (B.
7/6/’5O) with the Air Force ; every unit
was credited with one who was the bloke
who did all the fancy stunts in the air,
and interspersed a display of aerial
acrobatics with sudden dives, zooming
over the Army huts and missing the roofs
by inches and then climbing steeply
again. At Dorrington (England) there
was a standing offer for Diggers to have
a flight as passengers; that is how my
first plane flight came my way. Any
first experience has its qualms; mine on
this occasion were enhanced by the yells
of the boys who had been there before.
“Look out! You’re with the Mad
Major!” The flight was quite a smooth
one; when the pilot grinned back at me
and shouted something I thought he was
asking if I was all right and nodded.
After the flight he shook hands with me.
“When I asked you if you’d like to loop-
the-loop,” he said, “I was just testing you.
You pass, Digger.” If I had known that
I had given the O.K. for a loop my
heart, giving me enough trouble as it
was, would probably have choked me.
* * * *
“Tasma Jnr”: Launceston (Tas.) has
just been staging a real-life detective
mystery. During a case in which two
men charged with sheep-stealing were
appealing against a conviction, it was
stated that one of the men had made a
signed statement at police instigation,
after a previously-made declaration had
been burned. The detective concerned
denied that the original statements had
been burned or even made. After de-
fending counsel had got the officer to
write down certain words in court, he
produced a cardboard box, lifted from
it some foolscap paper with charred
edges and some ashes, explained that this
had been discovered in a grate at the
accused’s residence. After denying any
connection with the document, the de-
tective finally admitted that the writing
was his own. “Only by some remarkable
chance was this paper found a week after
the arrest,” remarked Chief Justice
Morris, “I am satisfied a statement was
taken and burned. I have no confidence
in the police evidence, and am confronted
by what I consider to be a deliberate
falsehood on the part of a police
officer.” Accused’s wife was in hospital
at the time: had she been at home she
would probably have used the grate, and
the evidence would have been lost.
A POSSIBLE CASE.
•‘it can be quite a comfortable thing, really, for
„ „oman to be able to admit that she is fair,
it and forty.” Woman’s paper.
TTnon her head she parks a hat, brand-new.
It looks a cross between a Gyppo s fez
And say an albatross —and worn askew.
Then, turning to her lord she bursts out,
“L e s
How do you like it?” With a casual screw
At the creation, scornfully he says:
“Tt’s an atrocity!” Instead of roaring,
She murmurs; “Oh, you’re sweet!” in tones
adoring.
To eet a coiffure in the latest mode
She sits for hours the while her hair’s encased
Uncomfortably. Back in her abode, _
The forest of clips removed, shes in some
To seekers approbation. Having bestowed
One look upon her perm., he says: “Why
Three quid to make your wool look like a
duster?”
She smiles —that wouldn’t put her in a fluster.
The instances that we have just outlined
Are not less likely, when you ponder it,
Than that a dame who’s getting much inclined
To beefmess, so that her clothes won’t fit,
Whose age makes up to two-score years com-
bined
Would nonchalantly, candidly admit
That, in the airy parlance of the sporty
She’d reached at last three F’s: Fair, fat and
forty.
Forty and fat! That combination’s one,
Men always thought, that’s singularly hateful
To woman, whether she be Singleton
Or wed; that in its train brings quite a
crateful
Of cares; she feels at last that she’s begun
To reach the stage of life, gloomy and fateful,
When, ’spite of every beauty-aid endeavour,
She’s parted with her flowing youth forever.
The theory that she really doesn’t care,
That she accepts it with philosophy,
Regarding with a rather humorous air
The fat-and-forty claim, is one that we
With knowledge of the sex could never square.
But wait! She might admit. Why shouldn’t
she,
Still hoping that she’s looking rather nifty.
And knowing that she’s really just on fifty?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: “The trouble with
wimmen,” said Mat, as he looked up
from the paper, “is that y’ never know
where’ll they’ll get y’ next. Now here’s
a bloke in the paper comes back from
the war and finds his missus has gone
cold on him. He goes home to his town
in Queensland, but she won’t go and he
writes letters to her an’ she don’t answer.
Well, it says here that he don’t hear
nothin’ about her for two years, ain’t
got the slightest notion where she is or
what she’s doin’. Then one day he’s on
the beach near a place called Ayr an’
he sees a woman in the water yellin’ for
help an’ be dives in an’ pulls her out.
Yair, it’s his missus, all right, just like
one of them books, only this is fair
dinkum. Now, there’s about three or
four million bloomin’ wimmen in this
country an’ the one he has to pull out o’
the water has t’ be his missus. Wouldn’t
it rock y’?” “Yair,” I said, “it just
shows” “Hold on,” Mat said. “What
y’ reckon she says when he brings her
to?” Before I could answer, he went
on, “She says, ‘When are y’ goin’ t’
divorce me?’ ” “Strike me fat,” I
marvelled. “She couldn’t ha’ had much
time for him.” “Aw, it aih’t that,” Mat
said, “it just shows y’ when a woman gets
a idea in her nut nothin’ can shift it. An’
it ought t’ keep you quiet, too; yre
always talkin’ about us goin’ t’ Queens-
land,” I looked blank. “Well, it hap-
pened up there, didn’t it!” he snorted.
I’m still trying to work it out,
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Jemu”: In a comparatively short
acquaintance with Binghi in his native
habitats I have noted the practical
absence of twin-births among main-
landers and a very low incidence among
islanders. In the Torres Straits Islands
the arrival of twins was greeted with
stark horror and, in the pre-missionary
era, one of the infants was instantly
brained, though infanticide was otherwise
unheard-of among a people in which
children are the lords of creation. Of
“You sure it's open season for ducks, Hasilthwaile?
course, the mainlander may have got rid
of the duplicated and unwanted offspring
without publicity, thus creating the im-
pression that double-births are unknown,
This is unlikely, however, since he would
see no need to conceal the killing, which,
to him, would seem a perfectly conven-
tional proceeding, dictated either by
economic or social motives. In the case
of the Torres Straits killing of one of
twins the motive was certainly not
economical, as this is a land of plenty,
entirely unaffected by the seasonal
vicissitudes which sometimes brought
starvation to the mainlandcr. Hence his
revulsion to twin-births was of psycho-
logical and superstitious origin, though
no present-day natives are aware of the
original reason.
♦ * * *
“Kelms”: Reporting the activities of
a bulldozer party in the Kimberleys, a
Perth daily spoke of a “mesa.” The
word is of Spanish origin and means an
elevated plateau or table-top; and it’s
been in the American language long
enough to be accepted as English. I’ll
accept it, since it expresses neatly and
clearly a fact for which we haven’t a
better term. An American importation
which isn’t as acceptable is the mesquite
plant, which someone with more
enthusiasm than foresight introduced into
the Kimberleys a few years ago. In its
native habitat —it ranges from south-west
U.S.A. to Argentine and Chile —mesquite
grows well in comparatively arid regions.
It provides some food for stock, mainly
from the ripened pods—it’s a legume—
but its most distinctive feature is its roots.
They’d descend to over 60ft. to water,
and they don’t branch or decrease much
in girth until water is reached. In some
localities the size of the plant is taken
to indicate the depth of the water-table.
Where the water is 40ft. to 50ft. from the
surface the plant grows to tree size ; if
irhas to go further for water its growth
is stunted, until, if the water-level is 60ft.
down, the plant is a shrub 2ft. or 3ft.
high. On the facts it should grow well
in Australia, and Kimberley residents are
afraid it will. Alarmed at its rapid spread,
they’ve declared it a noxious weed, and
have asked the Agricultural Department
for a lead on eradicating it.
« * * *
“8.A.K.”: Without in any way.
questioning scientific research into photo-
periodism as the stimulus regulating the
flowering of plants (B. 7/6/’5O), I have
a very strong feeling that heavy rainfalls
can’t be discounted. For over 30 years
I knew this eastern N.S.W. district, but
never once saw deciduous trees in flower
before August, or wattle blossoming
earlier than July. This year has been
the wettest on record ; there was very
little summer, no normal autumn, and,
so far, no winter. If the phenomenal
rainfall was not responsible for nature’s
present clowning, I’m willing to listen
while somebody explains why Sally-
wattle bloomed in May, silver-wattle was
in full bloom on the first day of winter,
and peach-trees and plum (both orna-
mental and fruiting varieties) are in full
springtime regalia with June in its first
week and no frost recorded as yet.
* * • *
“S.G.”: At a small siding in Central
Queensland whpn the cockies come in
for their mail it is nothing uncommon
to see a string of hacks tied to the fence,
each horse having a small tin of burning
cow-manure attached to it. With any
change of breeze the animals move and
thus keep in the smoke —that is the only
accepted way of beating the mosquitoes,
bane of life in those parts in summer.
“Salmon Gums”: As “Rooster” says
(B. 24/5/’5O), there’s no evidence to show
that the present equatorial regions were
ever ice-bound. Blit would he expect to
find it? Those regions are the most
flooded parts of earth’s surface. Glaciers
leave terraces, the marks of their comings
and goings, at their lower extremities—
that is, in the lower regions of the terri-
tory they cover. Neither in an advance
nor a retreat wop Id they leave evidence
on the mountain-tops, and it is only the
higher portions of the equatorial regions
which have remained above water.
Fifteen thousand years of ocean-wear
would destroy any traces of an ice-age,
if it ever existed. Still, as “R.” says,
there’s no definite proof that the world
has ever overbalanced. The previous
state of vegetation at the poles may be
accounted for by the greater air-density
which existed there before the capture
“Mind if I knock off early , boss? I've got an engagement
resolved. The theory that +u
generates its energy by t h e , SUn
annihilation of matter h a «„ absol ute
shelved. The soure^f^J been
have been traced to a chain-reaof^ dlatlon
duced m the transmutation of hydro' 0 '
into helium in the sun’s
transmutation of radio-active 1116
in the earth is a similar, though
slower, process. The atomic bom h f ely
demonstration of what happens when “
of our present moon. At its capture the
moon drew towards the equator not only
the earth’s oceans, but also its atmo-
sphere. Some of this was almost certainly
dissipated into space, and the resultant
rarefying of the air at the poles accounts
in some measure for their low tempera-
tures. This movement of air at the bid-
ding of a satellite is evidenced in some
ancient flood myths belonging to tribes
remote from the equator. They relate
how a great flood was preceded by a wave
of hot air. Myths from the equatorial
regions, presumably referring to the same
cataclysm, speak, not of a flood, but of a
sinking of the waters. That phenomenon
could have occurred only at the break-
down of a satellite prior to the capture
of the moon. The water, long held in a
huge tide around the equator, was re-
leased to flow north and south and flood
regions in the higher latitudes. The rush
of hot air mentioned in the myths was
caused by the movement of the heated
air of the tropics, similarly released from
bondage.
♦ # * *
“Wippegong”: “Jalna” (B. 7/6/’5O) is
quite correct; and so was I, but maybe I
should have been more specific and stated
that the skua which came out in numbers
and escorted us north from Jervis Bay
was the Arctic Skua (Stercorafius
parasiticus) which does nest in the Arctic.
“Jalna’s” Christmas dinner was the
southern skua, a somewhat bigger bird,
whose territory and habits are as “J.” de-
scribes. Haven’t seen this fowl north of
Bass Strait, though those with better
chances of observation at sea may have
done so; yet I wouldn’t expect them
ever to be in, numbers along the N.S.W.
coast. Further, the Arctic pirate runs to
variations in markings ; yellowish patches
around head and neck and whitish
breasts on some birds distinguish him still
more clearly from the larger and darker
Antarctic counterpart. They’ve gone
now, some to Canada or Alaska, some
beyond the Iron Curtain ; but whether
this will lead to a schism in the flocks
v/hen they return I can’t say.
♦ * * *
“Bo”: Sam had been sitting in front
of the hut fire for about two minutes
when he got up to get his tobacco. A
little while after resuming his seat he was
up again searching for a pencil to make
a few calculations. Back again, he
started fidgeting about in an endeavor to
get comfortably settled. A bit later he
was up looking for a pipe-cleaner. Not
long after he was back in the chair one
leg went to sleep and he got up and
hobbled up and down to get circulation
back into the limb again. As he was
approaching the chair again his eye
caught Timmy and Toby, the two cats,
as they stalked around the hut. “Sit
down, you two, can’t y’?” he roared.
“They’ve just had a good feed, an’ still
they’re prowlin’ around. Cripes, I never
seen two more restless fummies. Can’t
keep still a minute!”
« * * •
“Rooster”: The problem of how long
the sun will continue to radiate energy
at its present rate has been more or less
chain-reaction goes uncontrolled. The
hydrogen-helium synthesis which per-
petuates solar radiation accounts for the
extraordinarily steady waves of energy
given off over long periods with very
little loss of mass. Indications are that
the life expectation of the sun is about
11 milliard years, and that it will gradu-
ally wax hotter over the first 10 milliard
years, reach a brilliant climax, and
collapse rapidly to the state of a white
dwarf-star.
♦ * * *
“Billy T. ’: Our little town is just far
enough from the metropolis to be the first
or last stop for the big tourist buses,
according to whether they halt for morn-
ing- or afternoon-tea. The passengers
gulp that at Tony’s joint, then saunter up
and down the street for their few allotted
minutes with us, some poking into shops
to try to buy what they “can’t get in the
city,” only to find they can’t get it here
either, because our storekeepers think of
their regular customers first. They try to
look interested at the little town, but
fail; which is not to be wondered at,
really, for although they mostly carry
cameras, from box-brownies to super-
woopie-flexes, slung at the ready to
capture rural life in the raw, the same is
not usually forthcoming for the con-
venience of those who dash in for 20
minutes and spend all of it in the mam
street. Now if they knew where to plant
themselves so as to watch Mum Brogan
sneaking up to the side door of the
Commercial bar, spying cautiously
therein to locate her wedded lord, leap
in with her celebrated battle-cry and
yank said spouse home by the scrutt
the neck, they’d be on the way toward
seeing what we can offer.
back-lane from there those with movie
cameras might pause a moment to s; _
Bill the blacksmith spit with unfading
accuracy on to a piece of red- ’
at commendable range, just to
saliva siss; and the Uot t 0 dba S n d
would land them at Mac s
store. They would be well advised not
pause there, for their bus-would gw tQ
long start on them while Ma buy
sell them fiddles or prams,
their hats ; so the next corner lands them
back in the mam street, with noth
note except old Toby pr PP P Lady
electric-light post at the, tbe j r s kirts
tourists would probably dra ect i y
away from Toby;; W ta les,
lubricated, he could tell _ that will
right back to the c^ chl “ g f ’ t he gap 2 '
beat anything they 11 see f di g e rent
waggon. I c^ ld b efend of the town,
selection from the other en n 0 mor e
but possibly these would
appeal to the here-and-go r o i<j
choice above. Yet Mum B o
Bill and Toby can alsp X ir origin
wide range of tog , o , e raa
comments well saitea notlce he
humor; and if tb Y flec t on th
tourists it’s probably * r d bo ,w they
strange, blank look of them, a
got like that.
PARAKEET.
Party in the gum-tree, having such a treat,
Swigging at the blossom, every parakeet—
Drunken blokes and women hanging by their
feet!
Oh, the spree they’re having, standing on their
head,
Drinking up like fishes, where the blossoms
spread—
Lot of little boozers painting gum-trees red!
And it’s such a party, all the mob are there,
Not a care for “butchers” —who are they to
scare?
Pooh to hawks and shanghais, there’s no need
to care!
Hanging on the branches, staggering around,
Throwing all the empties down on to the
ground— . , ,
Hear the nuts apoppm, what a merry sound!
Swigging at the blossom, drinking it down neat.
Fill ’em up again, boys! Life is very sweet.
Never mind the wowsers —we’re the parakeet I
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


FOR GREATER
SMOKING
PLEASURE
Choose a NIMROD Drysmoker
Fitted with the famous hygienic filter, the
Nimrod Drysmoker is a Milder, Cleaner, Cooler
Pipe. Bowl stays dry. Tobacco burns evenly.
Flavour is improved. No waste. The carbonised
bowl is already broken in for instant comfort-
able smoking. Order your particular shape—
straight or bent —by mad, from Andrew McGee.
ENGLISH BRIAR
PIPE
963
23 Shapes
to choose from
Plus 9d for Postage
Obtainable from Sydney s
foremost tobacconist
Est. 1887
ANDREW
McGEE
Castlereagh Street, 70 Pitt Street, Sydney
“Veteran”: For the first time in history
farmers) have got a break in good wheat
and wool prices, and everyone seems to
be sore about it. Mention high prices,
and immediately the consumer points an
accusing finger at the farmer, with no
thought of the agents, transport, brokers,
wages-men, wholesale and retail traders,
etc., in between, who all collect good
livings from the produce, and so double
its cost. The cocky is everyone’s mark.
He always has been. For a very long
time he has provided the more civilised
world with entertainment. He is the sub-
ject, through exaggerated aping, of radio
comedies, comic-strips, after-dinner jokes,
funny pictures, and when necessity takes
him on city visits he is the butt of un-
scrupulous humorists and the victims of
con.-men. His home farm has always been
a poor affair, staggering beneath its
burden of generations-old debt, as
droughts, plagues, and bad times
passed over in seeming-endless procession.
Now, suddenly, this ludicrous old gawk
has lifted the mortgage from his land. This
ridiculous caricature with the dragging
muscles and the work-calloused hands
has bought himself a limousine to re-
place old Dobbin and the rattling trap.
An unheard-of situation. Why, at this
rate, he soon won’t be recognisable even
at Show-time, and if something isn’t done
to put society customary-end-up once
more, the toil-ridden son of poverty may
eventually cease to be funny to city folk.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Thistle Island, a few miles
south-west of Port Lincoln, S.A., com-
memorates the loss of Mr. Thistle, bos’n
of Flinder’s Investigator. He set off in
the ship’s cutter to look for fresh water,
but on the way back the cutter was
caught in the heavy tide-rip in Thorny
Passage and went down with her entire
crew. On this same island, a few years
later, was established what was probably
the first white settlement in S.A. For a
long time it was thought that this honor
belonged to some sealers who established
their headquarters at Hog Bay, Kangaroo
Island, and built a fair-sized boat there,
either in 1806 or a year or two before.
Evidence has now come to light indicat-
ing that prior to this the master of
a whaling brig which sailed out of Sydney
with some escaped convicts dumped them
ashore on Thistle Island to earn a ransom
in fur-seal skins. Within a couple of
years they were joined by some shore
whalers who used a shelving rock as a
flensing stage, and who built some rough
stone huts in what is now known as
Whaler’s Bay. The ruins of these and the
blackened stones used to build-in their
blubber pots are still there. . Thistle
Island is nowadays owned by Chris
who runs it as a sheep-station, and
who has also declared it a bird-sanctuary ;
on it the curlew, fast being exterminated
by the fox over most portions of the
mainland, finds safety. Recently Adelaide
bush-walkers, working in collaboration
with the field naturalists, took to it a
few pairs of another bird in danger of
extermination by the fox on the main-
land —the mound-building malice fowl.
For many years Thistle Island was used
only for breeding horses and raising
turkeys; sheep taken there soon died of
“coast-sickness.” After the C.5.1.R.0. had
discovered that this malady was due
entirely to the absence of minute traces
of cobalt and copper in the fodder grown
there the island became a valuable
property . Today it is a really good sheep-
run, free from rabbits and foxes and
with its livestock as healthy as those
anywhere on the mainland.
* * * •
“Solitude”: “Think I’ll drop a line t’
that down-country firm,” remarked
Seventyfiver, as I subsided with a paper
for half an hour’s peace before bunk.
“They might have some traps.” He
travelled round the hut rattling every-
thing movable, fell over Blue a couple
“If he gives another encore ....!”
of times, then opened up again. “Sol, I
s’pose y’ ain’t got a piece o’ paper that’d
do t’ write on?” I dragged out the box
under my bunk, and presented a page
from an exercise-book. Presently the
rattling began again. “Dunno where
there’s a pencil, do y’?” I went back and
unearthed my ball-point. Three more
lines of the paper were perused, then:
“Hey, Sol, this damn’ thing won’t write.
Wants sharpenin’.” Followed several
minutes’ instruction, a few experiments
on the table-top, and I returned again to
the fire. “What’s the date, Sol? May,
ain’t it? Look on the paper; it’s last
Wednesd’y week’s, I think. Yair; now
what was the name o’ that firm again?
Eh? How’d y’ spell it? Righto.” He
labored over the letter for a minute.
“S’pose y’ don’t remember what their
address is, do y’? Whatcha say? An’
do y’ put them big sort o’ letters f’r the
street?” Again I re-read the meaningless
paragraph, while behind me the letter
progressed in a monotone. “Dear Sir
—er. Dear Sirs, I —er —h’m. Dear
Sirs Hey, Sol, what d’ y’ reckon a
bloke ought t’ say exactly? I mean, er —
what’ll I say? Eh? Sol?” “Aw, pass
the blasted thing here and I’ll write it
for you.” “Gripes, no ; no need f’r that.
I c’n do me own letter,” he returned con-
siderately. “I ain’t goin’ t’ bother you
with it.”
* * • •
“Jay Jay”: While skinning a doe
kangaroo two brothers in this. South
Australian district found twin Joeys in
her pouch. Both were about 16in.' long
and just acquiring fur and were properly
developed. Neither the brothers nor old
Too-hunters here have ever heard of a
similar case.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; We’d got the tip from
Balranald that the new mounted trooper
coming to Euston was a bit of a nark,
and to be careful about drinking after
hours and playing up in the street. When
we got into town on the Saturday Little
Curl sighted him first and said, “Gripes,
looks like he’d pinch his own mother.”
The new trooper stood, spic and span in
uniform, eyeing us coldly as we rode to
the pub and dropped from our horses.
He had one of those cold, handsome,
immobile young faces that betray nothing
and seem to signify ruthless determina-
tion to uphold the law and maintain duty
whatever the circumstances. Somewhat
depressed, we trooped into the bar and
had our drinks, noting the general air
of depression and the gloomy bearing
of the publican. “Didjer notice,”
Pocketknife asked, “how he eyed us off
an’ run his eye over our prads? Gripes,
if a man was on a stolen moke he’d feel
like confessin’ straight away with that
blqke lookin’ at him.” Little Curl looked
outside. “Hey,” he called, “what’s he up
t’?” We crowded to the door. Hie
trooper was going from horse to horse,
examining mouths and backs and legs.
Hs saw us, straightened up and strode at
us. “Understand this,” he said, in a
steely voice, “if I find a horse with a sore
mouth or back or girth-galls I’ll run y’
in. I don’t care what y’ do t’ y’rselves be
fightin’ or boozin’, but I’m down on y’
if y’ knock y\ horses about.” Abashed,
we went back to our drinks. You ought
to have seen the furtive examination of
horses made in that town within the
next hour by men who seldom gave their
nags a second look.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: ’Roo-scalps and kids (B.
31/5/’50)? Twenty-odd years ago my
youngest brother came into unexplained
wealth. Told of his excesses in ice-cream
and Saturday matinees, I began to wonder.
With reservations regarding orchards I
didn’t doubt his honesty, but big-
brotherly investigations seemed called for.
Smart detective work revealed that he
made frequent visits to the river. The
river—in mid-winter! Gradually I
fathomed the mystery: A neighboring
council was paying a bounty of sixpence
a rat-tail. Our council had benevolently
allowed a washaway adjacent to the
swimming-hole to be converted into a
rubbish-dump; therefore the river-bank
swarmed with rats. With our munici-
pality full of rats and no bounty offered,
a bounty offered next-door but the supply
of rats diminishing, the logical thing to
do was sell the rat-tails to the people
who wanted ’em. At least, that’s the
way young Nipper had it worked out.
The minor difficulty of drawing the
rewards without awkward questions be-
ing asked he had overcome by recruiting
a boy who lived in the philanthropic
municipality, making him the “fence,”
and cutting him in on the profits. As
the business progressed more rat-traps
were added to assets before a dividend
was paid, in cash or ice-cream. “Rat-
tails, Ltd.,” was a flourishing concern—
until a sudden withdrawal of the bounty
forced the firm into liquidation. And
to think that such a potential business
tycoon tossed away all his God-given
business acumen —and became a council
employee!
* * * *
“M.S.”: We were sawing logs in a bush
gully when we spotted Windy making in
our direction on his new stallion. The
nag was approaching slowly in short
bursts of side-stepping, and when at
length he made it, we noted Windy’s
boots unlaced, and his stirrup-leathers
pulled half out. “Where to?” we in-
quired, with a grin. “Me?” answered
Windy mildly. “Aw, I’ve had some cows
and calves grassed over in Ted Hutchins’s,
and I’ve got to go and bring them home.”
“Without a whip or anything?” I asked,
surprised. “Gripes, you couldn’t carry a
whip on this horse,” Windy explained,
“let alone use it. He wouldn’t stand it.
Pitch me flyin’ off, too, if I even tried to
coax him out of a walk.” “And you’re
going to: bring back cows and calves with
him!” I persisted. “Through the open
bush.” “Aw, no, not the cows,” replied
Windy. “Y’ see, I’ve got to wean the
calves, and me own fences aren’t too
good for the job, so I reckoned it’d be
best if I just bring the calves today, and
then go back for the cows about next
week, say.” With gaping jaws we/watched
him disappear slowly among the timber
with his halting, sideways gait; then Bert
broke the spell. “Frightened o’ gettin’
chucked,” he sniffed derisively. “Gripes,
if that bloke ain’t a flamin’ pessimist, you
tell me!”
♦ * * ♦
“Chuck”: When Townie joined the
mob on Wild-dog Creek he immediately
began inquiries about snakes ; and, learn-
ing there were a few about, thereafter
spent much of his time watching for
them. Tussock and reed patches were
avoided, his blankets shaken carefully
before use, and even the corners of the
hut searched warily. The situation was
too good to miss. It took some time to
locate a Blake, but at length someone
ran across a beauty, dispatched it, and
took home the carcass. He tethered it
on a short cord, arranged it neatly across
the floor, and while Townie was engrossed
in a card-game, hooked the other end of
the cord to his coat. The game pro-
gressed, it grew late, and one by one
the mob said goodnight, stepped over the
snake and took themselves to vantage-
points outside the windows. “About time
to turn in, eh?” Bruiser suggested, throw-
ing in his cards. “Yair, might’s well.”
Still Townie didn’t look round. Yawning,
Bruiser got to his feet, took a step, froze
and made a gurgling noise as his eyes
popped in a smart bit of play-acting.
“D-don’t move,” he gasped hoarsely.
“Eh?” Townie screwed round. “What
d’ y’ mean, don’t move?” he growled.
“Anybody’d think” His eyes caught
the snake, there was a horrified pause,
then with a bound he was out the door.
It was bright moonlight and he went 15
yards in top, then paused to look back.
What he saw 'started him off again with
a howl. “Help! He—he’s after me!”
came back on the breeze; and, as Bruiser
said later, “If it hadn’t been f’r Joe
dropping off, this country ’d ’ve had a
new long-distance record that ’d sure
take some stoushin’.”
TOODLE-EM-BUCK.
u/hpn I was a lad, what excitement I had,
W.th cherries in plenty to pluck
Extracting each pit with a chew and a spit
To bet on the Toodle-em-buck!
n was easily made: it was hacked with a blade
1 From the back of an exercise-book;
It was more or less round, and a centre was
found .
For the pivot it never forsook.
The numbers it bore ran from zero to four,
Or more, if its owner was'rash;
it soun at a touch in his fist’s steady clutch,
And our ohbrry-stones furnished the cash.
We bet them each one, and the circle was spun
With a sudden, impetuous stroke;
We won for, a while, but the owner had guile,
And we frequently ended up broke.
Yet cherries were cheap, though you might have
plunged deep,
And though for the time you were “skun,”
It was all in the game, and a loan would reclaim
A stake to continue the fun.
That was ages ago, and you’d think I might
know,
From the way that I used to get stuck,
That, nought though I earned, there was lots
to be learned
From the whirl of the Toodle-em-buck.
Well, I’ve gathered at last, though the time’s
nearly past
For persisting in backing my luck,
That cherries are few whence the profits accrue,
And Life is—a Toodle-em-buck!
ENGLAND.
GUY INNES.


i si
-a
t.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS;
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman): Sir Lennon Raws.
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.B.E.;_ G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman);
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Mqtshead, K.C.8., K. 8.8.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdcry.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Continuity
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd. Executor of
are assured that the interests of your legatees will be safeguarded un i a > speciab B6^
In addition, you obtain the benefit of an impartial Executor with over , i y
experience in the administration of Estates.
No individual can offer such permanence, experience or security.
Charges are fixed and moderate.
Write or call for free booklet.
dsf
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserve., »
The WILDCAT COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Lid.
Year Replacement,
ended me.,
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
8} p.c.
1942 934,619 994,500 1,622,338 4,666,640
1943 . 1,041,601 994,500 1,669,439 5,049,140
1944 .. 873,969 994,500 1,548,908 5,443,655
8 p.c.
1945 .. 881,136 936,000 1,494,044 5,793,701
1946 . . 887,298 936,000 1,445,342 6,130,835
8i p.c.
1947 .. 1,163,473 994,500 1,614,315 6,447,849
9 p.c.
1948 . . 1,241,504 1,053,000 1,802,819 6,823,115
From inner reserves, £123,806 1,926,625 6,823,115
10* p.c.
1949 .. 1,206,762 1,228,500 1,904,887 9,121,945
9* p.c.
1950 .. 1,231,571 1,111,500 2,024,958 9,666,880
The board’s announcement that those on
the register at July 10 next will be offered
117,000 new £2O shares at £27 each, one
for five, surprised the market. It was the
first time in the last 43 years that share-
holders have been thus asked to contri-
bute. Up* to 1908 they had put up
£2,425,000 in cash. What happened to
the capital account since the following
table explains:
Cash-paid capital .. .. £2,425,000
Bonus scrip .. .. .. 13,175,000
Total £15,600,000
Capital returned .. •. 3,900,000
Leaving .. .. • • £11,700,000
Part of both bonus scrip and capital
returned came from earnings in Fiji. At
the close of accounts in 1949 the
£1,625,000 by which the Fiji assets had
been written down 25 years previously
was added to their book value on the one
hand and to the replacement and depreci-
ation reserve on the other.
Since World War 11, inflation and the
rapid growth and expansion of the under-
taking have called for heavy outlay on
fixed assets and a big increase in the
amount of working capital required. Now
that the new sugar agreement with
Britain has lifted Australia’s export quota
of raws from 400,000 tons to 600,000
tons per annum, field equipment and
capacity of the co.’s Victoria mill (Q.)
is to be increased at an estimated cost
of £1,300,000-odd. And expenditure on
a smaller scale will be called for at some
of the co.’s six other Australian mills,
too. Also, further additions and im-
provements are to be made to the re-
fineries, distilleries and building-materials
and chemical plants.
The market for the scrip rose from £66
10s. at the beginning of 1950 to £76 7s.
6d. before announcement of the new
issue and has since eased to £7O ss. After
exercising the rights and allowing for
brokerage, etc., the net price at £7O ss.
is £62 18s. 2d., giving the rights a
theoretical value of £35 18s. The return
at £62 18s. 2d, is only 2.8 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
div. basis, so the investor who looks for
4 p.c. on his money counts on a 12% pc.
distribution and/or other benefits.
When fully paid—the money is asked
for in three equal lots of £9.a share at
end Sept., 1950, 1951 and 1952 —the new
issue will bring in £3,159,000, of which
£2,340,000 will be capital.and £819,000
share premiums. Paid capital will thus
become £14,040,000, on which 9 p.c. will
call for £1,263,600 (£32,089 more
profit than was claimed last term), or
4.7 p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined, including provi-
sion for replacements, etc.). Last term s
profit was 5.2 p.c. on shareholders funds
as they stood at March 31, 1950.
Moreover, net earnings have always
been conservatively stated, and bigger
output and turnover lies ahead of the
whole sugar industry, while some of the
co.’s subsidiary interests have not yet
developed their full earning-power. The
improvement of £24,809 in last term s
net earnings was due partly to a bumper
outturn of sugar and partly to expansion
of the co.’s other activities. The
£1,231,571 of profit claimed (equal to
10.5 p.c. on capital) was written after
allowing £475,800 (up £10,220) for de-
preciation of fixed assets, plus £200,000
(same as previous term) toward the in-
creased cost of replacements, etc. Net
addition to the replacement and depreci-
ation reserves (£9,666,880) was £544,935.
So too much importance need not be
attached to the drop of 1 p.c. in the
rate of distribution, of which 9 p.c. is
labelled div. and \ p.c. bonus.
Last term £1,292,208 net was added
to the book value of mills, refineries and
building-materials factories, etc. The
lastmentioned factories figure at
£1,813,940 (up £329,725), and the demand
for their products —mainly cane-ite, hard-
board, plasterboard and asbestos floor-
tiles —continues to run ahead of pro-
duction :
1948. 1949. 1960.
Paid capital .. £11,700,000 £11,700,000 £11,700,000
E beSl dC : - ~ H 9.390
Sundry creditors 3,998,884 7,574,087
Suspense accounti 3,017,235 3,326,015 3,281,289
Employees’ fundsf 105,801 57,675 78,723
Ertn,rl«, mills. „ 16 , 46 0,259 16,752,467
Steamers .. 276,316 285,191 288,486
Distilleries .. 535.747 019,598 075,331
Premises 229,626 233,759 241,921
IS •• 5,671*342 7,029,333 8,111,329
Book debts, etc, 2,682,152 2,388,931 3,284,321
Investments .. 4,627,458 4,654,058 4,120,38
0a posite nd de * 534,533 3,815,480 1,359,520
| Provident and benefit funds.
Total holding in subsidiaries is £1,208,605
(up £154,394), the most recent addition
to the list being C.S.R. Chemicals, Ltd.
Since the co. finances the Australian
sugar pool, stocks (up £1,081,996), book
debts (up £895,390) and sundry creditors
(down £196,566) are always large items.
To meet the year’s outlay cash and
deposits were drawn upon for £2,455,960
net. The contraction in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£6,018,633) was £871,412
as against a net addition of £1,359,398 to
fixed assets.
Electricity Meter and Allied Industries
Electricity Meter and Subsidiaries.
Net r Diva. \ To Re ’ Re ' »
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1944.. 61,944 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 50,241 11,703 198,989
Share premiums, £13,650 .. • • 152,639
Added intangibles, £4109 .. • •
Net reduction reserves, £44,765 .. 108,'tm
1945.. 62,285 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 51,921 10,364 114,129
Share premiums, £154,781 .. • • 208,910
P. & 1. deficits new subside., £26,695.. 242,215
Add intangibles, £25,542 .. • ■ 210,673
Net addition reserves, £12,391 .. 229,064
1940. .113,978 6 p.c. 7$ p.c. 85,992 27,986 207,050
Share premiums, £123,874 .. .. 980,924
P. & 1. credits new subsids., £64,051.. 444,9(5
Net additions reserves, £3199 .. .. 448,174
Added intangibles, £87,019 .. .. 961,155
1947. .123,766 6 p.c. 7i p.c.100,877 23,389 384,544
Share premiums, £163,176 .. .. 547,720
P. & 1. credit new subsids., £2821 .. 650,541
Reserve adjustment, £6609 .. • • 557,150
1948. .156,944 6 p.c. 7i p.c.117,468 38,476 595,626
Net reduction intangibles, £ll6 .. 595,742
Addition reserves, £2359 .. •• 598,101
1949. .177,526 6 p.c. 8 p.c.130,991 46,586 644,636
* After deducting goodwill, etc., and allowing for
excess cost over par-value shares in subsidiaries.
The rapid expansion of this big manu-
facturing organisation—parent and over
a score of subsidiaries —is beginning to
taper off, and attention is being turned to
consolidation of group interests and the
holding of markets. During the 14 years
since the public became interested, paid
capital has shot up from £570,000-odd
to £1,662,382, £350,000 of debenture
money, costing on the average a wink
under 4 p.c., has been gathered, tangible
reserves (largely share premiums) of
£644,636 have been accumulated, and at
end 1949 there was £2,953,688 (including
something for taxation) coming to sundry
creditors.
The idea was to bring under one control
a group of allied industries (the sub-
sidiaries were mainly old-established con-
cerns when taken over), and to eliminate
waste in buying and selling as well as
overlapping in organisation. Products
include electricity meters and motors,
magnetos, switch-gear, radios, refrigera-
tors, vacuum-cleaners, washing-machines,
plastics, cutlery, petrol and other pumps,
oil engines, air-conditioning apparatus,
irrigation and telephone equipment, all
kinds of gas and hot-water appliances and
kerosene-heaters.
Last term sales were “well maintained”
in all sections of the business. Aggre-
gate turnover increased by nearly £3
million, reaching approximately £ll
million. There was a marked increase in
the output of electricity meters, to which
the new works in Melbourne contributed.
The big plant at Orange (N.S.W.), where
the premises were taken over from the
Government in 1946, is being extended.
Here an extra 200 names were put on
the payroll last term, making the total
1600, and a new building, with 30,000
square feet of floor space, is being
erected. The products of this factory
(electric motors, refrigerators, washing-
machines and ancillary materials for use
by other units of the group) account for
one-eighth or more of total turnover.
Net earnings were £21,582 stronger at
£177,526, which covered pref. requirements
and 10.9 p.c A on ord. capital as against
10.1, 9.3, 10.1, 7.3 and 7.5 p.C. back to
1944. The div, was lifted from 1\ p.c.
to 8 p.c., making average distribution
over the last 14 years 6.5 p.c. In addition
to a generous £241,207 (up £40,100)
allowed for depreciation of fixed assets,
£158,000 (£142,000 in the previous year)
was specially set aside as provision against
a possible‘fall in stock values, etc.
To carry an extra £359,388 of stocks
and £402,247 of book debts, as well as
meet other outlay, £804,069 was added
to the amount coming to sundry creditors,
which includes an unspecified provision
for taxation:
Electricity Meter and Allied Industries and
Subsidiaries.
1947. 1948. 1949.
Parent’s capital £1,884,666 £1,662,382 £1,662,382
Outside interests* 47,650 61,112 58,418
Debentures . • 253,333 354,625 354,625
Sundry creditors! 1,570,731 2,149,619 2,953,688
Inter-co. balances 20,429
Freehold, plant, etc. 989,957 1,029,631 1>022.041
Stocks .. . . 1,671,899 2,447,255 2,796,643
Debtors’balances. 1)678j913
Cash and deposits 86,373 147,121 167,319
.. 259’,596 259,452 259.336
Inter-co. balances 15,087 86,90 l
* Including proportion reserves, t Including tax
provision.
The year’s improvement in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£1,422,513) was
£76,144. Features that catch the eye are
the amount coming to outsiders, stocks
and debtors’ balances. When the books
closed there was 225. 6d. of outside money
at risk in the business (excluding deben-
tures) for every pound belonging to
shareholders.
Since the close of accounts turnover
has continued to expand, new lines have
been marketed, jflant and production
methods have been improved, and orders
on hand for diesel and power-generating
units exceed £li million. Still, competi-
tion from both local and overseas sources
is beginning to raise its head, especially
in connection with household appliances.
And the continued rise in costs emphasises
the danger of any substantial decline in
overseas prices, which would bite deeply
into, if it did not eliminate, the profit
margin on some of the group’s lines.
However, the organisation has a lot of
nets out to help stabilise earnings.
At 365. 3d. (295. 3d. a year ago) the
ords. return 4.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover is 28s. 3d. The
prefs. seldom appear on ’Change.
Snows Mens Wear, Ltd.
■Mysj. wiST l) ;«»\ a
1 non ■£,. P >c " p.C. £ ' deficit.*
IS! :: ..SS N ? s A
SS :: ASS u 7 N ? i SSSS
1943 .. 16,339 7 7 44,018
1944 .. 17,607 7 7 JMS? 42,029
1945 .. 20,721 7 7 28,772
,„ JO T ° tax provision, £1515 ,ds ° 32 .40 i
1946 .. 29,933 7 10 18 Voo 33 .»16
TO tax provision, £2250 8,700 22 .68 S
1947 .. 30,603 7 10 ' ’ 18.769 Sjg
From tax provision, £l5 861 Reserves*
Profit, sale of assets, £646 *' 2,822
1948 .. 45,700 7 124" 29 89 k M 6B
Assets written up £52 361 *') 26 > 8 42
W™*. ! **
* After deducting intangible assets (now
With the object of applying the chain
store technique to the men’s-wear trade
exclusively, this company .was formed i?
years ago, and took over the men’s de
partment and properties of the old John
Snow and Co Pty. For the whole
period covered by the foregoing table
capital was unchanged at £205,000 but
the chain has been expanding and giviJ
an increasingly good account of itself
Last term the co. crossed the Victorian
border for the first time, to open an un-
to-date store in Rundle-street, Adelaide
That brings the* total to 14 shops (the
others being in Melbourne city and
suburbs and in the main Victorian
country centres)—and the directors
intend to “press on with a policy of
gradual expansion.” 3
Assets taken over from the old pro-
prietary in 1937 were paid for in an issue
of £105,000 ordinary scrip, and the Snow
family thus retains a large interest in the
present co., whose chairman and
managing-director are knights Sydney and
Gordon Snow respectively. The family
has a separate, well-established retail
business in Sydney (called Sydney Snow
Pty.), but in that city the emphasis has
so far been*on women’s wear.
The 1937 purchase price included
£25,000 for goodwill, still carried in the
books. But other intangible assets were
cancelled last term, when the Flinders-
street freehold was revalued at a figure
of £168,900, or £52,360 more than before.
That explains -most of the £62,444 rise in
fixed assets:
Paid capital— 1947. 1948. 1949.
Preference .. £60,000 £60,000 £60,000
Ordinary .. 145,000 145,000 145,000
Mortgage .. 66,151 66,151 138,982
Bank overdraft 20,912 29,645 76,950
Creditors .. 47,134 65,512 35,347
Tax provision.. 47,000 33,738 34,422
Freeholds .. 134,043 114,863 167,100
Leaseholds .. 0,474 15,007 15,792
Fittings . . 32,828 45,586 54,958
Stocks .. 143,613 177,005 265,412
Debtors .. 50,129 86,934 102,744
Cash .. .. 15,421 419 '607
The new Adelaide store accounted for
the £9422 net outlay on fittings, and for
part of the £88,407 increase in stocks.
Debtors’ balances also rose £15,810, while
the co.’s own unsecured liabilities were
reduced by £30,165. The necessary
finance came from the bank and a new
mortgage from the A.M.P. Society on the
Flinders-strcet property, replacing the
former smaller mortgage from the
Union Bank. On balance, current assets
exceeded liabilities by £71,899 at balance-
date, an improvement of £21,462 for the
year. And since the close of accounts
there has been a par issue of 72,500 new
£1 ords. .
About half of last term’s trading period
was affected by the 1\ p.c. official cut m
retail mark-ups. Gross profit margins
were the lowest ever, and expenses the
highest, but a record turnover enabled
the board to report a £1165 rise in net
profit after slightly higher depreciation
and tax provisions:
1947. 1948. 1919-
£, £ &
Gross profit .. 252,627 297,897 355,278
exes. 164,378 203,184 257,432
Depreciation 10 646 15,27 a 1,
Net profit .. 30,603 45.700 46 865
After meeting pref. dividends the n
figure was 29.5 p.c. on «
as against 29.4, 19.7 and. 17.8 p.c. m m
three preceding terms. The dm
unchanged at 12£ p.c., and t P Y


The ALL-BRITISH
finu<u|§liwnit
Oend, the
(jjreaieM
N?5B
45/-
PRICE*
RANG!
FROM
19/6 to
55/-
\
N? 475
22/6
7ke Ten uktk
tfie Tfta/weMauA
CONWAY & CO, LTD. LONDON
S.W. RAMSAY. MELBOURNE &, SYDNEY.
8.1. Slagwoool is the modern insulating material
which proofs the whole building against extremes
in temperature.
8.1. Sfagwool is easily applied to new or old struc-
tures. Live in absolute comfort Winter and Sum-
mer; line your home with 8.1. Slagwool and save
on fuel costs too.
For full particulars call, write or phone • • •
PTY.I
LTD.
Phones; SYDNEY. 8X5534. MELBOURNE. MU3506
BRISBANE 83604; 8.1, (S t A.) U!)’ ADELAIDE
ten. 7257: B.i. (W.A,) LTD. PERTH L 2i 07
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1,
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
W**f
MCI
Tfi«
to
••
Every Rolls lighter is precision built for
unfailing service. Fully automatic, with
built-in windguard, spare flint recess.
Five year guarantee. Chrome, 39/6.
DUtributed by WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED
it ilejhis every time
D , STIV^ , G V'f?^
sas^s
2^
&4H9
a/^«
GIN
DH
2J%»>S
TVvis V;.
mm
mm
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE VI.
Tanqueray Gordon and Co. Ltd.
Qua/t^
&tccrmJtaS&a^e
Gordons
Stands Sup’aimz
Arrest
m
Rbcumatisn**
Backache and
Mney J
Weakness
*
m
AGONISING joint pains
are often WARNING
signs from weak kidneys in
need of help! Weak or over-
worked kidneys need the
gentle assistance of Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills to help
rid the system of dangerous
poisons and excess acids,
which accumulate and cause
agonising backache, rheum-
atism and joint pains. Thous-
ands have found that a
course of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Pills helps kidneys to func-
tion properly again—to fil-
ler out pains-causing impuri-
ties from the blood stream —
to eliminate the cause of
joint pains.
Take Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
Stay free from nagging aches
and pains. Start a course today.
27 Pills: 2/ 60 Pills: 3J-.
Dr. Sheldon’s
FOB THE KIDNEYS
GuP.4
rate on the increased capital, to-
tiether with the £4200 for the
prefs., will now take £31,388 in
a full ye ar - , , . ,
At 375. 6d. the ords., which
are closely held, would yield
6 6 p.c. on last year’s div.
Allowing for the recent issue,
net tangible backing is 29s 7d.
on the new book-values. The
well-protected 7 p.c. prefs., at
30s. each, yield 4.7 p.c.
New Tin-control Scheme
The International Tin Study
Group’s draft control proposal,
which is to be the basis for dis-
cussion at a conference which
the Secretary-General of the
United Nations has been asked
to convene, is a workmanlike
approach to a difficult problem.
Briefly the proposal is to set
up an International Tin Council,
equally representative of pro-
ducers and consumers, to control
production and iron out exces-
sive price fluctuations. The two
groups are to have equal voting
power, and major decisions
affecting the availability of tin
will require a two-third majority
of the votes of producers and
consumers counted separately.
Since votes are to be allocated
to individual countries on the
basis of their net imports or ex-
ports, it would be difficult for
the council to come to a decision
which did not command the
approval of a major consumer,
like the U.S. On the other
hand, should consumers insist
upon an overgenerous release of
supplies, maintenance of a
reasonably remunerative price-
level might prove difficult.
The council is to estimate
probable world demand and fix
the total amount of tin to be
exported from producing coun-
tries each quarter. And the total
is to be divided among indi-
vidual countries in proportions
yet to be fixed. The allocation
promises to be one of the tough-
est nuts the council will have to
crack.
A buffer stock is to be set up
to which each producing country
is to contribute, without pay-
ment, according to its share of
total output. The manager of
this pool is to buy and sell metal
in London when the market
price moves above or below cer-
tain levels yet to be fixed. Other
clauses of the«scheme cover such
questions as conservation of tin
resources, limitation of con-
sumption, restrictive practices,
liquidation of non-commercial
stocks, and penalties for exceed-
ing export quotas.
Of the group’s 15 members,
nine voted in favor of the draft
proposal, three abstained, two
were absent, and one, the U.S.,
opposed it. America was not
opposed to the principle of con-
trol, but believed that a greater
measure of agreement on details
was needed before an inter-
national conference was likely to
succeed. The conference is ex-
pected to be called in Sept, or
Oct. next, and, if final agreement
is reached, introduction of con-
trol is not anticipated before
mid-1951.
Meanwhile, American stock-
piling demand is expected to pre-
vent current excess world pro-
duction over consumption of tin
(40,000 tons for 1949) from
unduly depressing the price of
the metal. The current figure of
around £S6OO a ton London
provides good profits for all
efficient producers, with costs as
they are. At the moment stocks
are largely in official hands, and
most ordinary consumers are be-
lieved to hold little more than
their immediate requirements.
A very different picture, how-
ever, could arise before the end
of 1951. Maintenance of em-
ployment and orderly conditions
in the tin industry in Malaya
would do much for maintenance
of political stability there.
Central Norseman Gold
Corp., which is in the Western
Mining Corp. group, has taken
another option, this time from
Dundas Gold over the Empress
and Trump mines at Norseman
(W.A.). The option runs for a
year, is renewable for another
year on payment of £lOOO, and
the purchase price is £lO,OOO.
Geologist K. Finucane recom-
mended a diamond-drilling cam-
paign (cost about £7500) to test"
the possibilities of the two mines
at greater depth, but Dundas had
exhausted its funds on explora-
tion of existing levels without
very encouraging results. The
vendor co.’s plant, reckoned to
be worth about £BOOO, is not in-
cluded in the option. On the
Dundas register there are 200,000
f.-p. 2s. 6d, shares, which the
market prices at 6d, each.
Central Norseman’s ss. shares
fetch 175., or thereabouts.
* * * *
General manager lan Cameron
and his team are doing good
work at Big Bell, the large low-
grade mine on the Murchison
field and third on the list of
Westralia’s gold producers. In
1949 the fine-grinding and
cyaniding plants handled 424,525
tons ore, averaging 3.l7dwt, for
56,07 loz. fine gold and 22,0370 z.
silver. The profit was £89,436,
equal to 22.3 p.c. on the £400,000
of share capital, of which
American Smelting and Refining
(New York) holds about 49 p.c.
The main shaft has gone down
another 192 ft, making total
depth 1246 ft., and development
is keeping nicely ahead of the
mill. Ore reserves at Dec. 31
last were 1,870,000 tons (up
16,000 tons), averaging 3.24dwt.
gold. Aeration of the mill pulp
is expected to step up recoveries,
and savings in operating costs are
.counted upon when additions to
mill and mine equipment are
complete.


PENFOIDS
BRANDY
:
5, &
HOSPIttKX.
mmmi
mm
\ tMp4EM r |
■ ■.
* t.
AUSTRAttAM
HOSPITAL 88AKDY
>»«»'« *)***< *>tV {.
r*r, ««*«*»
K»war stocti
■■••■ : -v
COARD
Ca&hy
PROTECTA
StniiStU Rtyi4iUl£iig
ml
dsf
Suitable for eeery type of business II record*
all Sales. Credits. Payouts ete. Strongly built,
pleating In appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agent e—
SYDNEY . W
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
PERTH
C Tenfold A Co. Pty. Ltd.
Norman Bros. Ply. Ltd.
Vardon A Sons Ltd.
Docket Book Co. (Aust.l
HA
now flies you to
c rjfpyfJV
Tokyo
Iwakuni
Manila
Darwin
Sydney
Increasing the scope of its service to
Australian air transport, Qantas Empire Airways
announces that civilian passengers can now y
from Sydney to Tokyo and from Sydney to
Manila.
Modern Skymasters provide comfortable air
travel—with full steward service and first-class
food served in the air.
Fly to Japan in 2\ days.
For full details consult your travel agent.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
Australia’s International Airline
Business Rollery etc.
Revaluation
Revaluation was a hot topic
in Stock Exchange circles last
week. But, as might be ex-
pected, Ministers in Canberra
would not be drawn into mak-
ing any definite comment on the
subject. It is one of those things
which have to be done without
previous announcement, and, if
any move is contemplated, it
would most likely be made
public on the night of June 30,
or during the weekend that
follows it.
The Bulletin was opposed
to revaluation of the Australian
pound until Britain devalued in
relation to the dollar last
September. Since then the Aus-
tralian pound has been worth
no more than $2.24, compared
with $3.20 previously. To come
to parity with sterling now, £lOO
Australian being made the same
as £lOO English, would put a
value of $2.80 on the Australian
pound. This seems more reason-
able than the present rate.
The immediate catch in re-
valuation, however, is not so
much in the dollar relationship
as it is in the Australian-London
rate. The woolgrower who
averaged 63d, for his fleece dur-
ing the season now closing
would still average 50d. if he
lost the 25 p.c. “exchange
premium,” whereas in 1948-49
he averaged 49d. And 1948-49
was a profitable season in every
way. There is nothing wrong
with wool at 4s. or thereabouts
a pound. The wheatgrower may
not be in so strong a position,
but he is doing very well, and
has minimum as well as
maximum prices under the inter-
national agreement. These re-
turns to the grower are based
mostly on dollar prices even-
tually. It is in the purely sterling
arrangements, such as the con-
tract price with Britain for meat,
butter and other dairy products,
that a change in the exchange
rate would hurt most.
This is so where the Aus-
tralian manufacturing trade is
concerned as well. It would be
competition from imports from
the sterling area which would hit
local industry hardest. All dollar
imports are strictly regulated be-
cause of dollar shortages. And
there is no likelihood of much
change in this dollar poverty for
a considerable time.
As time goes by the revalua-
tion problem grows greater and
greater. The psychological time
to make a change was within
hours of the Attlee-Cripps de-
valuation last September. But
Mr. Chifley and his Common-
wealth Bank governor, Dr.
Coombs, decided otherwise. Mr.
Chifley would have had to face
caucus on the matter, and
he would have met with
strong opposition from
the Ward group and from
his small rural represen-
tation. Then he knew
he had to face the electors
in December, so he
funked the issue com-
pletely, and decided to let the
Attlee-Cripps decision be his
own.
This sticking to the new ster-
ling rate on the dollar amounted
to devaluation of the Australian
pound at the height of a boom,
when the majority of our ex-
ports, wool especially, were
highly profitable even when sold
in the dollar area. True, even
allowing for the subsequent rise
in Australian wool prices, wool
became cheaper for Americans
to buy because of the revalua-
tion. It has yet to be demon-
strated, however, whether this
has had much effect on our
dollar-earning capacity.
Pondering the revaluation
problem, the sharemarket was in
the doldrums last week. Some
holders of base-metal stocks de-
cided to play safe, and got out
of their shares at slightly weaker
prices. Gold stocks generally
weakened. In the industrial sec-
tion movements were irregular,
but most leaders were down
slightly. Only industrial con-
cerns vulnerable to competition
EDITOR
in
CHIEF
“What the devil's the idea , Cassidy, running our
free novel on the front page!"
outside the dollar area would be
much affected by an up-valua-
tion of the £A.
Up to May 31 this year’s
Australian wool clip had
brought in £258 million from
3,278,047 bales, as against £176
million from 2,880,446 bales in
the same 11 months of 1948-49.
Average price for greasy this
season has been 62.8 d. a pound,
compared with 49.2 d. last
season. Including scoured, aver-
age price has been 63. Id., against
49.6 d,
* ♦ ♦ ♦
Burlington Mills (N.S.W.)
shares have shown the greatest
response among Australian
rayon-weavers since the Is. 4id.-
a-yard tariff was announced on
rayon fabrics. Below 30s. a few
weeks ago, the co.’s shares sold
at 325. 9d. early last week, after
which there were dealings at
365. Shares in Bruck Mills
(Victoria) were also responsive.
Recently around 265, 6d., last
week they were sought after at
three shillings higher, Burling-
ton paid 8 p.c. in 1948-49, with
no interim div. this year. (The
scrip went as high as 455. in
1949.) Bruck paid a maiden
3 p.c. div. in respect of its 1949
term. The clothing trade has
objected to the Is. 4|d. duty.
A. J. Aucher, representing the
Wholesale Importers’ Associa-
tion, said that under the old duty
64 million yards of rayon (the
1948-49 import figure) would
have sold retail for £24 million,
but under the new tariff the
same amount would sell for
£29.5 million. The Customs
Department has said that the in-
crease was needed in order to
give effective protection to the
young Australian rayon in-
dustry, and that a duty was
better than payment of a bounty.
Importers are pressing for a
bolmty, with a lower tariff, (As
an indication of the rise in the
cost of rayon, a few years before
the war Japanese Bemberg silk
was sold in Australia at under
9d. a yard, duty paid.)
The Australasian Petroleum
group by the end of 1950 will
have spent about £7 million in
the last decade on the search
for oil in Papua. At present
drilling is proceeding at Upoia
(casing cemented at 5194 ft.),
Hohoro (depth 4721 ft.) and
Wana, where drilling began on
May 6, and the hole has reached
3518 ft. The whole operation is
a big enterprise being conducted
in a big way. Most of the
money spent is coming from
Vacuum Oil and Anglo-Iranian,
but Australian investors are in-
terested through the shares of
Oil Search, Ltd., which has
roughly a one-fifth interest in
the show. There are 4,838,600
ss, shares issued by Oil Search,
and these are at 4s. 4d.
* * * *
A few shares in a couple of
the more substantial coal cos.,
such as J. and A. Brown-
Abermain-Seaham and Hetton
Bellbird, might pay as a long-
term holding proposition. One
way or another Austral;* u
get more coal, and the n^ aS to
denied a reasonable retu™ Crs ’
their investment for the m * ° n
years, should benefit f r ? St 20
creased turnover. ln '
coal cos. have been treated y the
the depression has
and unreasonable At I? nfair
Pnces J. and A. Brown Iu Cent
return 6 p.c. /n d Hetton 8 * p e c s
Corporation (u
14/6/ 50) had a sharp rise h.i
week a total of ss. alWh* 1
with 3s of it on Friday 8 A e c r ’
counts for the latest term ha£
not yet closed, but the marke? k
expectant. Profit figures uni*
the end of the 1949 term hadVrf*
shown the benefit of a m u
enlarged plant. The 1948-49 div
was 12| p.c. 1V -
He-Ne”; a Bur-
letin contributor
said recently: “It i s
Problematical how'
much longer N.S.W
can afford to indulge
in the subsidised
water-wasting racket
which rice-growing
has become.” M.L.A.
farmers are uneasy
about the increased
acreages of rice
They hold water is
too precious to grow
rice for export and that rice
should remain purely a sideline
for using up any surplus water.
Another disturbing aspect is the
buying - up of rice - farms by
“big” operators which, if con-
tinued, could lead to dictation
by these people of water re-
leases. R.S.L. sub-branches in
the area see a menace of pres-
sure politics in this. But the
question that transcends the rest
is why rice is a blackmarket
commodity in Australia, and
how long it will be before India
(say) forces rice into Australia
at cheap prices.


J§m \\ .
Mir \\ -
' m
jf ' :
tom®
■ :} iV
&eautifiu£
IVORY
CANE-ITE
CEILING
reflects the softest white
light and keeps out Heat and Cold!
So easy to remodel that cracked, old ceiling.
Prefinished Ivory Cane-ite can be applied
right over any cracked surface.
Your new, beautifully panelled ceiling
catches and throws back the softest white light
—as well as insulating the room from roof
heat in summer and coldest conditions in winter.
Inexpensive easy to erect as standard
Cane-ite. Enquire from your local hardware
dealer or timber merchant.
IVORY CANE-ITE
A Product of
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established IS7B
Head Office* 117 ATT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
0. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies In all Country Centres
No more need fo worry
... our affairs
are in safe hands
“My husband’s father named Burns Philp Trust
Company as his executor, and we’ve found the Company
prompt, considerate and wonderfully efficient.”
You can save your beneficiaries endless anxiety by
taking a similar step. If you are unable to call and
see a senior trust officer, please write for the interesting
booklet, “Hands That Never Leave the Wheel.”
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, F.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR TRUSTEE ATTORNEY
7 Bridge Street, Sydney
Telephone: BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
sis
? : Si>
fe.
K..«#
;>«'■
s&£
NV
mm
/MuweA
Blue Gillette
Some men, by their very occupations, have great
traditions to keep up. Not the least of them
is that they should be well shaved, always.
That is why such men use Blue Gillette Blades.
They know, by actual experience, that the Blue
Gillette is the world’s finest blade. It shaves
cleaner and more smoothly —-and it lasts longer.
• SO DURABLE each
blade gives you extra shaves.
• SO SHARP—they stroke
your beard away.
9 SO FAMOUS—-they have
made the world clean shaven .
“ © 'iS '.r-
6 lor 1/8
10 for S/4
20 lor 6/8
(in plastic dispenser)
‘ Good mornings 9 begin with Gillette
a/too
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Import Decontrol
Millions annually should be
saved for N.Z. by casting off the
bonds that have held imports in
a straitjacket for nearly 12 years.
The Holland Government isn’t
making a clean sweep of import-
licensing, but it’s going a long
way in its first big step, under
a list of items nearly hatched out
by C. M. Bowden, Minister of
Customs. Maoriland’s hand-to-
mouth buying, in the long battle
against shortages, must have
been the most cumbersome,
costly and inefficient in the
world. On imports worth from
£lOO million to £l2O million
annually it shouldn’t be hard to
save 2i p.c. to 5 p.c. by getting
even with rival buyers in John
Bull’s well-filled market, and on
top of this-there will be gains
through cutting out red-tape,
delays and costly trips from all
quarters of Maoriland to go
cap-in-hand to Ministers in
Wellington or to bureaucrats.
Traders condemned control
with growing vehemence in the
Socialists’ last years because it
forced them into taking second-
and third-rate goods from
Britain to get as much bulk as
possible for their money. Local
industry didn't have to worry
about this weak competition,
and had no incentive to hold
costs down, for any rise could
be passed on, with official sanc-
tion, to consumers in the
Dominion’s high-price economy.
Given a chance now, plenty of
the things Maorilanders are cry-
ing out for will be imported at
lower price and of better quality,
and the labor engaged in mak-
ing them in N.Z. factories will
be better and more profitably
employed in sound industries
that are yelling for workers.
A good deal of spring-clean-
ing will have to be done before
trade flows freely, but the chains
are loosed and enterprise should
soon begin tp recover the use of
its muscles once more. A Board
of Trade should be in the saddle
before the year is out, and till
then its four nominated
members will undergo useful
schooling as an Import
Advisory Committee. Business
should be liberated from
politics and the scales held
more fairly between local goods
and imports. Two members of
the board—knight David Smith,
ex-Supreme Court judge, with
good business sense, and Robert
Laidlaw/ founder of the
Farmers’ Trading Co., M.L.’sl
outsize department - store —
should be a powerful nucleus for
the team to help M.L. escape
from the maze of controls.
All controls, in the opinion
of Prime Minister Sid Holland
and his Government, are “9,
subtle form of Socialism, which
encourages and ' rewards in-
efficiency, penalises and dis-
courages efficient production,
and denies to consumers the
service, quality and variety to
which they are entitled.”
After years of fighting a rear-
guard action against advancing
costs, every important industry
and business in the Dominion
has heavy spending to face to
catch up with arrears of develop-
ment. If measures the new Gov-
ernment is taking to damp down
the inflationary fires are effec-
tive, healthy expansion should
not be long in following.
A Large Loan
N.Z.’s generously sugar-coated
£2O million loan (3 p.c., 1‘959-61,
or 24 p.c., 1954), launched at
the end of May, set Maoriland
investors an average target of a
million daily (excluding week-
ends) for the month the issue is
to run. This is on a level with
the haul of M.L.’s 17-year “tap”
loans for four years past, when
there was nothing to whet
appetites. Sales-appeal this time
is based on a discount of 10s.,
for a term of a decade, and re-
lease from the obnoxious 33|
p.c. super-tax on “unearned”
income, which was a sore point
for more than 10 years.
Maorilanders gave the loan a
warm welcome. The discount
was in line with hardening in
gilt-edged yields, and the nine-
to 11-year term was as long a
shot at interest trends as it
seemed safe to make. Under
the tax-cut, with graduation
working in reverse, the net yield
is i p.c. to i p.c. better than in-
termediate to top income-groups
have been able to get in gilts
since pre-war days, with relief
greatest' where the load was
heaviest—that is, where only 95.,
or a shade under \ p.c., from
every £lOO of scrip, was left in
the pockets of all taxed at peak
rates under Socialistic soaking
of the rich. To keep the whole
gilt market in balance, the tax
concession* is general.
N.Z. is clinging to the 3 p.c.
level, compared with Australia’s
customary 3i p.c., but funds
aren’t likely to come at this rate
a great deal longer now printing-
press methods of stimulating
prosperity have been brought to
an end in Maoriland.
Cement
Cement austerity in N.Z.
should ease off as cos. in the
field put more weight into pro-
duction, but Maoriland’s No. 1
industrial bottleneck won’t dis-
appear until output is boosted
50 p.c. above present capacity
of nearly 300,000 tons. With a
goal approaching 500,000 tons,
the Dominion expects in time
to take the lead as the world’s
greatest per - capita cement-
producer, perhaps around the
mid - ’fifties. A newcomer,
Modern Cement, Ltd., has plans
to turn out 100,000 tons yearly
at Cape Foulwind, near West-
port, two or three years hence,
and well-established cos. in
both islands all have expansion
schemes,
Wilsons (N.Z.) Portland
Cement, Ltd., aims to capture
at least 50 p.c. of future trade
with a development programme
at its works near Whangarei
which sets a target of 260,000
tons, and other works, run by
the Milburn Lime and Cement
Co., Dunedin, and Golden Bay
Cement Co., are building up,
too.
Wilson’s touched bedrock in
1945, when net profit slumped
to a mere £18*842 on a capital
of £600,000, and divs. fell to
3| p.c. (4d.) Since then re-
covery has been rapid, and in
the latest term (to March 31) the
co. netted £60,727, to give a
margin of £25,727 over div.
demands of 7d. on the 10s.
shares. Reserves have grown to
£248,256, against £176,398 five
years ago.
Prime Minister Holland said
lately that the Government was
giving priority to cement plants
because of the need and the
fancy price the country had to
pay for supplies from abroad.
Fletcher Holdings
Turnover of N.Z.’s top build-
ing combine, run by Fletcher
Holdings, Ltd., Auckland, with
a brood of 10 subsidiaries has
snowballed in 10 years to
£6,735,309, and the concern is
still reaching out for new busi-
ness. To celebrate its tenth
anniversary the parent, a mil-
lionaire co., has added a 1 p.c.
bonus to its usual 6 p.c. div.,
but it still clings to the policy,
stated by knight James Fletcher
last year, of putting away good
surpluses to reserve while pros-
perity flows. Profits hit a peak
of £88,454 for the latest term
(to April 30), to leave £18,454
to add to backlog funds, after
taking £133,159 as a sizeable
allowance for depreciation.
Total depreciation written off in
the decade is £597,996. Brakes
on expansion now are mainly
cement and timber * bottlenecks
and shortage of labor; other
handicaps seem to be past.
When the cement famine ends
big industrial and commercial
premises planned for cities will
give plenty of scope for the in-
dustry for years, but that time
is still well ahead. There’s not
enough cement for houses,
public works and farmers today.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The Young Chinese Relief Movement
achieved an outstanding success with its
Dragon Ball last week, over 1800 guests
passing through the golden “moon-gate”
to crowd the floor of the Trocadero.
Chinese national costume was not as
much in evidence as one would have
liked, but what there was of it was most
becoming. The 16 debs, presented to
Madame Kan Nai Kuang, wife of the
Chinese Ambassador, by Mrs. D. Y.
Yarme, president of the Y.C.R.M., all
carried pink-and-white posies with their
full-skirted white debutante frocks. They
were like a small swarm of dancing white
butterflies; but, pretty as they were, the
show was nearly stolen from them by
the three little Chinese girls in national
costume who preceded them. These small
lasses convinced one that at least Chinese
children should always wear their native
costume. Gaylorn Minglai (a lovely
name) and Robyn Yit, in scarlet and
sequined tunics and carrying bouquets
of flowers, were followed by Robyn
Cumines, in honey-yellow tunic and pants,
who paced the debs with remarkable self-
possession for her age. Among those
presented were Miss Lily Awee, of Towns-
ville (Q.), and the sisters Elaine and
Peggy Sun, of Sydney. The pretty
Empire draping on the overskirt of Peggy
Sun’s frock was an outstanding feature
among a bevy of beautiful frocks.
The Consul-General for China, Mr.
Woo Shih Ying, and Mrs. Woo, enter-
tained the official guests. These included,
among others, the Ambassador for China,
Dr. Kan Nai Kuang, and Madame Kan,
the U.K. Trade Commissioner and Mrs.
A. Hartland, the Canadian Trade Com-
missioner and Mrs. C. N. Croft, the
Consul-General for Switzerland and Mrs.
H. Hedinger, the Minister for the Philip-
pines and Mrs. Roberta Regala, and the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress, Aider-
man and Mrs. O’Dea. Madame Kan’s
black satin tunic, superbly embroidered
with a big dragon, and Mrs. Woo’s frock,
embroidered with butterflies, reminded
one that the Chinese embroiderers are
unsurpassed for skill with the needle and
charming invention of design. Small
dragons in scarlet and green and gold
indicated the official table, and a thousand
tiny butterfly-wing dragon brooches,
brought from Hong Kong, were sold to
the guests. Lovely Daphne Chun, in
billowing rose tulle topped with a fox
cape, was selling these little money-
raisers in the foyer. Proceeds from the
festival will be divided among the United
Nations Association, Anti-T.B. Associa-
tion, Adult Deaf and Dumb Society and
the Spastic Centre.
The exhibition of ballet costumes,
designs and photographs presented by the
Arts Council at David Jones’s Gallery
last week \yas a savory titbit for ballet-
omanes and others, and well calculated
to whet Sydney’s appetite for the short
ballet season opening at the Empire this
week. Introduced by Dorothy Helmrich,
Sir Arthur Gillan, representative of the
British Arts Council, opened the show,
which contained among other delightful
things Robin Lovejoy’s designs for John
Antill’s “Corroboree” ballet. A lot of
interest was shown in the costumes.
Shivaram, the Indian dancer, was present
to explain the points of the costume he
will wear when he appears with the ballet
company. Another exhibit of Oriental
magnificence was a garment (complete
with a superb headdress) belonging to
Paramita, the Javanese court dancer, who
recently delighted a Conservatorium audi-
ence with her programme of traditional
dances. The arts were well represented
at this gathering. Main interest centred
in Miss Gertrude Johnson, founder and
director of the National Theatre and
Ballet Company, of Melbourne, who flew
over for the opening of the company’s
season. She is off to Europe next week
on a Government-sponsored tour of Eng-
land and the Continent to study modern
developments in the theatre. Noticed
among the enthusiasts was Mrs. H.
Nicholas, Mrs. Scott, Mrs. Sali Herman,
Dr. Sternberger and Douglas Dundas,
who arranged the exhibits.
To celebrate Independence Day the
American Society is giving a party for
members and their friends on July 4 at
the Trocadero. Chairman of the ball
committee, Mrs. Jack Smysor, is being
assisted by Mrs. N. Morrof and Mrs.
McCadden (publicity) and Mrs. Maurice
Samuels (decorations). The entertain-
ment programme is in the capable hands
of Miss Strella Wilson, 0.8. E. Proceeds
of the party will go to a nominated
charitable fund.
This year Winsome Shand, daughter
of Mr. Jack Shand, K.C., won the
Sir John Sulman prize for Design in
Architecture with a plan for a block of
offices. She graduated last week with
honors in architecture. Another honors
graduate in the same line of country is
Jean Gordon, daughter of Mrs. J. M.
Gordon, State president of the C.W.A.
There are nine woman graduates in archi-
tecture this year, which inspires some
hope in the potential homebuilder that
really labor-saving homes may yet be
designed by women for women.
The dark beauty in the photograph is
Mrs. Tito Schipa, wife of the famous
lyric tenor. Diana Borgna was an Italian
film actress before she became Mrs.
Schipa and the mother of a Portuguese
son. The Titos always tell about their
Portuguese son, Titino. They were on
the way to fill a concert engagement in
South America and stopped in Lisbon
for a short period, and there the babe was
born. Mrs. Schipa is sure her son will
be a musician, and naturally they both
hope he will be a singer. It appears that
he already has an ear and can recognise
arias which his father sings to him.
One of the bright spots of the week
was the reception given for the Arthur
Askeys by Mr. and Mrs. David Martin
at the Australia, where the guests-of-
honor and members of the “Love Racket”
cast wore small photographs of themselves
printed with their names to make identi-
fication easy. Not that Arthur Askey
needs any aids to identification; he is so
much in tradition, so completely himself
and a natural English comedian that the
difficulty would have been to disguise
him. Mrs. Askey, wearing a crimson
velveteen ballerina-length cocktail frock,
looked young to be the mother of 17-
year-old daughter Anthea, who hopes to
emulate father by playing comedy roles
—she has a small part in “The Love
Racket.” Mrs. David Martin received the
guests in a grey tweed suit with matching
felt cloche trimmed with a provocative
feather. The Askeys will again be guests-
of-honor this afternoon at a reception at
the Town Hall given by the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress, Alderman and Mrs.
E. C. O’Dea.
Last week the Spastic Centre at Mos-
man held the first meeting in a drive to
raise funds for enlargement of the present
centre to accommodate spastic children
from the country. Land at French’s
Forest has been given for this purpose,
and money is to be raised for buildings
and equipment to treat there a further
hundred of these unfortunate kiddies. A
whole lot of money will be needed, and
a beginning is to be made with a button-
day, arranged at the meeting. Social
organisers in country centres could help
by earmarking a percentage of all money
raised during the year for this worth-while
project.
Douglas Annand opened fellow-artist
Raymond Glass’s exhibition at David
Jones’s Gallery last Friday. Rae and Ray
Glass (Mrs. Glass was formerly Rae
Nutting, of Brisbane) spent 18 months
in Mexico recently experimenting in new
media, the names of which appear on
little labels beneath the paintings. Some
of these -media are experiments for
mural paintings which it is hoped will
withstand the worst the weather can do—
that may or may not include the modern
trend in Sydney’s climate, which seems
able to obliterate even macadam roads.
Mrs. Glass, who was a pharmacist as
well as an art student before her marriage,
ably supported her pleasant, bearded
husband in receiving visitors at the show.
Among the picture-gazers were Toni
Humphrey-Jones, Mr. and Mrs. Hal
Missingham. Mrs. Lewis-Hughes, Joan
Roberts and Mrs. H. Weaver-Hawkins.
From Melbourne
Pageantry was imparted to the Southern
Command Army Ball when Army out-
riders escorted the vice-regal party to
St. Kilda Town Hall. A fanfare of
trumpets greeted them on arrival and
they passed through a guard-of-honor
to the entrance. Lady Brooks wore a
dove-grey chiffon gown patterned with a
floral design in mauve, orchid-pink and
palest-green tonings. The round neck-
line had a wide Bertha collar. Jeanette
Brooks’s burgundy-red satin strapless
gown had three deep tucks on the bodice.
The vice-regal party was received by the
G. Southern Command, Lieut.-Gen.
A. J. Boase, and Mrs. Boase, and Colonel
C. H. Kappe and Mrs. Kappe. Mrs.
Boase was in orchid-pink tie silk; Mrs.
Kappe’s gown of black coin-spotted faille
had a swathed off-the-shoulder neckline
and a two-tiered skirt. In the official
party were Vice-Admiral J, A. Collins
and his wife, Lieut.-Gen. S. F. Rowell,
who‘was accompanied by his wife and
daughter Rosalind, Major-General A. J.
H. Cassels, Col. Rufus S. Ramey, who
represented the U.S.A., and Mrs. Ramey,
Lieut.-Coi. J. Berwick and Lady Eliza-
beth Berwick, and Group-Captain H. D,
Charlton, R.A.A.F., and Mrs. Charlton.
The Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital
Ball was a great success. Red-caped
nurses were in charge of the wishing-well,
and balloons, in a variety of color, each
with a winking eye and a large ear, were
sold to guests. The Governor, Sir Dallas
Brooks, Lady Brooks and their daughter
Jeanette joined the dancers. The presi-
dent of the hospital committee, Orwell
Michaelis, and Mrs. Michaelis greeted
the vice-regals on arrival. Lady Brooks’s
ice-blue brocades were fashioned with a
wide, full skirt; her jacket was of blue
fox. Jeanette Brooks chose an unusual
gown of white tulle; the skirt having
two tiers and a wide sash of apple-green
velvet matched the bodice, which had
puff sleeves of white tulle. Miss Eliza-
beth Johns, matron of the hospital, high-
lighted her black tulle gown with a row
of miniature decorations. Mrs. Norman
Geaney wore a slim-fitting gown of
cyclamen and silver lame. Mrs. Eric
Gutteridge’s chiffons were in deep Parma-
violet tonings. Members of the ball com-
mittee included Mrs. Les Daley, whose
strapless gown was of black moire taffeta ;
Mrs. Harold Martorana, wearing a gown
of silver-grey brocade, faintly patterned
in shell-pink leaves ; Mrs. David Griffiths,
whose choice was black velvet with silver
lace outlining the strapless bodice and
forming insets in front of the skirt; and
Mrs. J. H. McCann, wearing a crystal-
beaded white crepe gown.
An actress with personality and charm
is Frances Bavier, who co-stars with Joe
E. Brown in “Harvey.” Her wit and fast-
moving conversation make her the life
and soul of any party. Born in New
York, Frances has a fine reputation back
in the States as a character actress. One
of her best roles was an 80-year-old
grannie in “On Borrowed Time.” For
over two years she played with Jackie
Cooper in “Magnolia Alley” before com-
ing here. Photo by Broothorn.
Pnina Salzman was soloist in the special
Celebrity Concert at the Town Hall when
the orchestra was under the baton of the
visiting Italian conductor Alceo Galliera.
The Palestinian pianist played the
Cesar Franck Symphonic Variations in
a stunning gown of pastel-pink tulle over
taffeta. Bernard Heinze was there with
his lady, looking at the orchestra from a
—to him —strange viewpoint. Other
music-lovers in the audience were
Mesdames Maurice Nathan, Tom Carlyon
and John Mollard and Mrs. F. Irvine
and her son Ken,
When the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S.
Disney, met her committee at the Town
Hall she produced a letter which she had
received from comedian Joe E. Brown,
who wrote: “As I have been a member
of the Recreation and pi av „ t
mittee of Los Angeles fn?f ° Unds Com
have a fair idea® of years and
would like to help you”-^ an S roblerns . I
going along to the Town Han t° Joe E.
cenZ C H a Dutch aucSj T* 0 *
ception and portico rooms at re -
Ha l have been reserved for
and the Lady Mayoress
01 ganiser, Lady Wales and Ber co-
table. Alma eve^
Piaygiounds Association of Vir/
lunds of which will benefit hn * oria » the
a basket of fruit; there are bas P rese nteci
beaded Dorothy bag nylons I?i te Satin-
auto tray set to he auctbnSf d m linen
cost one pound each and u Table s
play bridge can
d t„ m , “>* favorite cfrd g° a U m r e and
the University, at
tb th H Ul l IVersity c °nser B vftorium
the daughter of Mr. and Mrs A S C n S
Fawcett, of Camberwell Her' 5 B -
Russell Marriott, is the sec™? fianc<f ’
fi M S' \ Harriott, Grove S Can f
field, and the late Mrs. Marriott w S ul "
wiU be celebrated in November
they will sail in the Strathaird^l" 1 ®
honeymoon abroad. d for a
When Commander Adrian Perry TJB
Attache, was guest speake/at the
English-Speaking Union luncheon at the
Victoria Palace, decorations of the officfa
table carried the nautical motif~ a W
ship laden with holly and red carnations
centred the table; holly-branches aM
streamers of red, white and blue ribbon
completed the decor. Commander Perry
was accompanied by his wife, whose out-
fit in caramel-toned wool was matched
felt cloche - Lady
just back from a visit to the Barrier Reef
was m grey tailored suit and pheasant
feathered grey hat. Mrs. Dan Reddan
now appearing in Mae Hoban’s produc-
tion of “King Lear,” wore with her beige
coat an apple-green silk jersey snood A
small pastel-green cloche hat trimmed
with autumn leaves and red berries topped
Mrs. Alwyn Spicer’s forest-green suit
Mrs. T. J. Ryan’s hat was of black-and-
white-striped taffeta, as were the cuffs of
her coat. Geraldine Le May wore a hip-
length coat of black Persian-lamb and a
small black hat. Mrs. Graham Egerton,
who is the new secretary of E.-S.U., com-
bined black-and-white-speckled suit and
small black velvet hat.
An azure-blue faille gown fashioned
with a moulded bodice and a classical
skirt falling into a small train was worn
by Joy Wilhelmina, only daughter of Mr.
Justice A. W. Foster and Mrs. Foster, of
Sandringham, when she was married at
her parents’ home. A Juliet cap of pastel-
blue tulle encrusted with pearls held in
place the fingertip veil of matching tulle,
and she carried a bouquet of palest pink-
and-white azaleas. She was attended by
Mrs. J. Beveridge, whose contrasting
gown of pastel-pink lace mounted on
slipper satin featured a full peplum, to
give the effect of a small tunic over the
bouffant skirt. In her hair she wore a
circlet of violets and Cecil Brunner roses,
and she pinned a matching spray to the
waistline of her gown. The Rev. Victor
James blessed the vows. The bridegroom,
Geoffrey Wallace, only son of Mrs.
G. W. Campbell, of Sandringham, and the
late Mr. Campbell, had J, Beveridge for
best man. Reception was held in the
Gloucester-room of the Australia.
Weather conditions were perfect at
Caulfield for the V.A.T.C. meeting.
Guests at the committee’s luncheon
included Field-Marshal Sir William Slim,
the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, and the
Premier, Mr. T. T- Hollway. Mrs.
Norman Robinson, wife of the chairman
of the V.A.T.C., also gave a luncheon.
With her mink coat Lady Brooks wore
a delphinium-blue felt hat. Her daughter
Jeanette covered with a three-quarter-
length coat of grey Indian lamb her
brown frock; her felt beret was bncK-
red. Mrs. T. T. Hollway added a match-
ing hat to her bright navy suit. Mrs.
Norman Robinson was in black tano
suit and small black aigrette-trimme •
A coat-frock in fine black wool a
tiny white feather cloche made
effect for Mrs. Gilbert Walsh. .Mrs. Lesh
Cranbourne’s tent-coat was m-L
tan shading; her matching h
feather-trimmed. An unusual c .. d
pastel-pink and black feathers.
the black hat Mrs. W. Tu . nßr J d f rinl med
with her black Persian-lamb-tnmm^
coat. Mrs. Harold Holt s full, n^ t h
coat of beige facecloth was Bn waS 0 f
ocelot; her small pillbox cap
black velvet. . . fo i e
Mrs. Keith Home wore a mink
with her misty-grey suit Mmkcoat,
frock and green felt hat Horsfall’ 8
mings comprised Mrs W
outfit. Mrs. R. P ; Willed cov«J;
claret-red frock with a mink
hat was of olive-green tcit.


Don’t say Gin
• • • say
9
0
O
kh/i
PERSONAL ITEMS
New - knight medico Wilberforce
Stephen Newton is the second in his
family to be so distinguished-surgeon
brother Hibbert received the accolade in
1935 And a great-grandfather Wilber-
force got his knighthood for his work in
the emancipation of the slaves. The new
knight helps manage Melbourne’s Alfred
Hospital, is vice-president of the Royal
Australasian College of Physicians, and,
among other things, is consultant
physician to the R.A.N. Among a sheaf
of congratulatory messages was the milk-
man ’ s _“He’s equal to Bradman now.”
Bulletin black - and - white artist
Oswald Pryor has published for private
circulation Cornish Pasty, a book of 60
humorous Cousin Jack drawings, many
of them from this paper. A book for
public sale is in hand. Drawing for The
Bulletin for nearly half-a-century,
Pryor had his first printed in 1902, at 21.
Bora at Moonta (S.A.) of Cornish
parents, he attended the local School of
Mines, had \ six months as a fitter and
turner in the engineering-shop of a
mining company, transferred to the
drawing office, and later held an
executive position. For a while he
managed The Bulletin’s Adelaide office.
It was C. J. Dennis, then editing the
Adelaide “Critic,” who suggested that the
Cousin Jack miners of the Moonta and
Wallaroo districts were good subjects for
joke-blocks. Pryor did not follow
Dennis’s advice for several years because
he thought Cornish humor would not be
understood by Australians. When he
did, he was delighted to find that his
drawings had an appreciative following
wherever The Bulletin was read. A few
years back he spent a couple of months
in Cornwall, and found the Cornish
dialect, pasties and saffron cakes un-
changed, and Cousin Jack still referring
to Devon as “A place on the way to
England,”
Once organist at Cardinal Mindszenty’s
University Church in Budapest, Leo
Robb, a New Australian, now pulls the
stops on the organ at St. Patrick’s
Cathedral, Melbourne. Hailing from
Vienna, he is working out his migration
contract by rolling oil-barrels about at a
Brooklyn factory.
“Macnell”: Cruiser Canberra’s com-
pany will remember Admiral Sir Henry
Harwood as the weather-taut, easy-
speaking commodore who, while their ship
was in Maoriland waiting to pick up a
Middle East convoy, stood before them
in the ship’s recreation-room and casually
gave them an eye-witness account of the
action in which three British cruisers
hounded a comparative giant to her
ignominious doom in the Plate, and there-
by thrilled the world. Harwood received
the traditional reward q£ the victorious
R.N. squadron-commander—K.C.B. and
promotion to rear-admiral. A torpedo-
expert, he had served in War I in
battleship Royal Sovereign before be-
coming torpedo4>oss of the Third Battle
Squadron and captain of cruiser Cumber-
land, which, under his command again
in the South America Division, arrived $
off the Plqte to wait Graf Spee’s re-
appearance. After a year as C.-in-C,
Mediterranean (1942), Harwood was pro-
moted Admiral in 1945, and retired,
medically unfit, the same year. Forty-
one years in the Service, he was 62 at the
Last Trick.
A legal precedent was set in Melbourne
by Chief Justice Herring when he re-
mitted the full legal period of articles by
13 months for an ex-policeman who, at
40, has been called to the Bar. The man
was Clifford John McDonald, youngest
detective in Victoria when appointed to
the C.1.D.; in the homicide squad he
helped to unravel several of the State’s
most puzzling murders. A war-time re-
lease from the force set him in charge
of the R.A.A.F. Special Investigation
branch at Darwin ; while there he started
ms law studies. His 73-year-old father
ls a retired police-sergeant.
Brigadier R. W. Tovell, Victorian
Minister for Education, has a personal
connection with the Tower of London,
an exhibition of whose grim contents he
opened the other day at Tye’s Galleries,
Melbourne. Studying accountancy in
London before the 1914 war in a dingy
room on the third floor of an apartment
house on Tower Hill, he slipped into the
Tower church one day for the usual
service, not knowing it was for the
exclusive use of the Yeomen of the Guard
whom Gilbert and Sullivan celebrated.
The guardsman liked him; he became
an unofficial member of their sergeants’
mess, and so was able to make acquaint-
ance with the instruments of torture and
execution and the crowns of dead English
monarchs.
Two descendants of Westralian pioneers
landed at Fremantle from the Asturias on
the day the port was officially celebrating
the landing of Captain Stirling. Former
Harley-street consultant, Dr, Elkington,
and his wife, are both great-grandchildren
of John Bussel, who pioneered the Bussel-
ton district. Bussel took up land where
his cattle stopped for feed and water, and
called the homestead he built Cattle
Chosen. Mrs. Elkington before her
marriage was. Miss K. Bunbury, of Bun-
bury, the rival and neighboring port of
Busselton. Dr. Elkington will practise in
Perth.
Number One on the roll when Sydney
Boys’ High School opened in 1883 was
13-year-old Arthur Malcolm Eedy, son
of Capt. John Eedy, who had skippered
windjammers and steamers and later ran
a nautical school in Sydney. In 1887
the son joined Citizens’ Life Assurance
as a cadet. Twenty years later
Citizens’ Life absorbed the purely mutual
M.L.A. and took the title of Mutual Life
and Citizens. A couple of years later
the Widows’ Fund, another mutual con-
cern, was welded into the business, and
the M.L.C. is today one of the most
economically administered and successful
co-operative life-offices in Australia, Eedy
was general secretary from 1899 to 1927
and a director for 44 years until his
retirement last month, including 13 years
as the co.’s managing-director. A close
friend of Bulletin editors James Edmond
and S. H. Prior, he was a wise adviser
to them while they conducted this paper’s
“Wild Cat” pages. In his long and busy
life he has found time to sit in Sydney
University’s senate, and was president of
DOYEN OF ASSURANCE .
the Insurance Institute of N.S.W. and of
the Shakspeare Society of N.S.W. A
great book-lover, he was known to all
the town’s booksellers; he donated most
of his large library to the Camp Library
Service for the troops during War 11.
Now living at Double Bay (N.S.W.), he
looked well, chatted brightly and was
looking forward to his 80th birthday on
July 12 next when Prior did the above
sketch.
Lt.-Commander David Shaw, owner of
the features here navigated by Heth,
commands one of the happiest ships in
the R.A.N. —Antarctic-noser Labuan.
She takes her company into unusual
latitudes to do unusual work. Shaw has
done much to enhance the standing of
Reserve men. While a Reserve
officer (sea-going) he was picked to carry
out the gunnery-trials of cruiser Hobart
after she had been refitted from her
SKIPPER OF LABUAN.
torpedo-damage in the Solomons (a
highly-important task), and is probably
the only Reserve officer who can claim to
have been gunnery-officer of a fully-
commissioned cruiser in war-time —eight-
incher Australia. He took over after her
gunnery-jack had been wounded in the
Leyte savagery. Learning his naval pot-
hooks in the R.N.’s training-ship
Worcester, Shaw went on to 14 years in
the Merchant Navy, served in the P, and
O.’s Rawalpindi and Chitral, and joined
the R.A.N. in 1939. He controlled sloop
Parramatta’s four-inchers through her
vicissitudes in the Red Sea and
Mediterranean, left her shortly before
she was sunk, and did a pepped-up
gunnery course in the R.N.’s Whale
Island gunnery-school. Now permanent
service, he’s a first-class seaman; he
needs to be, commanding a floating
match-box whose bulkheads thunder and
decks bend up to two feet in any sort of
blow, in waters which the Hydrographic
Department hasn’t bothered much about.
Nuggety and well-liked, with a re-
vealing jaw, Shaw takes Labuan up to
New Guinea next month, to complete the
shifting of 4000 tons of cargo from the
old naval base (Dreger) to the new
(Manus).
Maorilanders are kicking up their heels
to some purpose in the Old Dart just now.
Aucklander Bryan Ashbridge now
occupies a leading role with the Sadlers
Wells Co. as ballet-dancer at Covent
Garden; Alexander Grant, ex-Welling-
tonian, regarded as the best character
dancer in the United Kingdom, is
another leader in the same co. Both will
accompany the Sadlers Wells to U.S. in
the autumn. Rowena Jackson, a
Dunedinite, among the best “Bluegirls”
in “Les Patineurs” at Covent Garden,
will also go with the co. Yet another
Maorilander, Denis Dowling, has en-
trenched himself in the Sadlers Wells Co.
A native of Ranfurly, Central Otago, he
lately received a big commission from the
8.8. C. to play Prince Igor in Borodin’s
opera. As well, he toured with an
English co. on the Continent recently,
singing the principal baritone parts in
Benjamin Britten’s operas “The Rape of
Lucretia” and “Albert Herring,” at
Copenhagen and Oslo.
Wilfred Russell Grimwade, accorded a
knighthood in the Birthday Honors, was
responsible for the first production in the
Commonwealth of liquid air. He was
first in other things—first to bring out an
expert to demonstrate steel welding and
cutting, and the ficst to establish an
oxygen-making plant that started the
huge compressed-gas industry of the
country. His chief claim to fame, how-
ever, is likely to be that he brought out,
stone by stone, the charming little cottage
in the Fitzroy Gardens, Melbourne,
known as Captain Cook’s cottage, though
it was the cottage of Cook’s farmer-
laborer father, who learnt to read when
he was 70 so that he could read his son’s
books. Russell Grimwade is president of
the trustees of the National Museum and
is an expert on Victoriana, of which he
has a vast collection. He owns to a book
in covers —Anthography of the Eucalypts.
One hundred and six years ago black-
smith Archibald Mclntosh pitched his
tent neap Flooding Creek, in Gippsland ;
thus, without knowing it, founding Sale.
That thriving town having become a city,
Melbourne newsmen attended the cele-
brations. Naturally they sought inter-
views with the Oldest Inhabitant, and
the “Argus” find was 88-year-old builder
George Geddes. None of them found
the Hon. George Henry Wise, 97, whose
life-story is a record of almost con-
tinuous public service. Born in Mel-
bourne, he was educated at Scotch
College, and admitted as a solicitor just
after the Fra neo-Prussian war. He was
on the Sale Borough Council for 24 years
and was mayor six times. In 1891 he
became chief-president of the infant
A.N.A., remained a director 49 years,
became a Federal M.P. in 1906, was
Assistant Minister for Defence for two
years and P.M.G. in 1920. Up to two
years ago the remarkable old man
attended to his practice, thus being the
oldest practising lawyer in Australia.
Until lately he could sometimes be seen
moving along Queen-street, Melbourne,
to visit son George, who practises the
same profession.
Coming ashore after 45 years on blue
water, Captain E. Marriott, skipper of the
well-known Fremantle-Singapore Blue-
Funneller Charon. With service as well
in two other mythological characters of
the line. Centaur and Gorgon, he had the
latter in Singapore at the surrender. She
slipped seaward on the morning of Feb-
ruary 12, with 360 refugees crowding her
90-passenger space, to be sighted by a
triumphantly-savage flight of medium-
level bombers. Marriott slipped what
they unloaded and brought his craft safely
to Fremantle. His seamanship brought
him 0.8. E. Later, in Milne Bay, old
Gorgon, after unloading her Diggers and
Yanks, was not so lucky. She caught
a stick of high-explosive jolts which
jammed her engines clean out of align-
ment, necessitating a long tow to Bris-
bane and a seven-months’ refit. Marriott
had her for the rest of the war, shifted
to Charon, and, after a spell in Maori-
land, will shift back to England, from
where he sailed at 14.
Into the Silence;
In Sydney, practically unnoticed, George
Bond, who left Kentucky (U.S.) for Australia
in 1912 with ideas of interior-decorating in
his adventurous mind. Instead, he took on
importing, let Sydney ladies see what American
silk stockings had over lisle, and did so well
he built his own factory at Redfern five years
later. Growing rather too rapidly, the George A.
Bond concern crashed as depression approached,
but it was subsequently firmly re-established as
Bond’s Industries, Ltd.
In Sydney, at 78, John Hubert Fairfax, son
of Sir James, inheritor of his good looks and
equable temperament and the most versatile of
the Sydney “Herald” proprietary. Schooled at
Sydney Grammar and Cambridge, he returned
to boss Dalmore Station in Central Queensland,
his interest in stock stemming from a period
with Dalgety’s. In'l9oB he moved to the black-
soil richness of the Darling Downs, to build
up the finest Ayrshire stud of the north,
Marinya. He was a world-class judge of the
Ayrshire. The death of brothers James and
Geoffrey brought him to Sydney to help keep
the “Herald” on course; but he was more at
home in the country.
At 86, in Adelaide, Lt.-Colonel Edward John
Glennon, who left to fight Kruger with the
Fourth Imperial Bushmen’s contingent, and
stayed in Africa with the army of occupation
till 1907. Back in S. Australia he sited the
present military H.Q. at Keswick, as well as
planning the Mitcham and Woodside camps for
War I. He marched on every Anzac Day from
the first to last year’s.
In Perth, at 74, Granville Purdue, one-time
chief inspector and head of Westralia’s C. 1.8,
His first sleuthing was done among the
sellers along the Kalgoorlie pipeline in the gold-
rush days; his best was collaring the pair of
murderers who killed two detectives of the Gold
Detection Staff. In 1915 each State sent a
detective to Egypt on special service with the
A.I.F. to weed-out wanted men; Purdue rep-
resented Westralia.


NOW LETS HAVE
a scenes
m*.
4
r - ..#
■*> r
JSP?
■VC
X
''«>*- *■
A\**ufT
0
- i
3rs
»ks?
'’V
When yon call for Brandy
make sure you say
scenes
BRANDY
“THE EMPIRE CHIMP/OV!"
i
DA 9
Distilled and Bottled by ANGOVES LTD , South Australia
Legal Notice.
IN the Estate of MARY ANN BROWN
ileceased and MARY HELEN DEVINE
BROWN, both formerly of Thornwood
Estate, Mlanje, Nyasaland.—PUßSUANT
to an Order of His Majesty’s High Court
of Justice in Nyasaland made on the 12th
day of April 1950 and directing that
enquiries be made as to possible claimants
in the matter of the Estate of Mary
Helen Devine Brown deceased Cause No. 9
of 1947 and in the matter of the Estate
of Mary Ann Brown deceased Cause No.
10 of 1947 persona claiming to be the
heir at law of the said Mary Helen
Devine Brown late of Mlanje in the Nyasa-
land Protectorate living at the time of
the death of the said Mary Helen Devine
Brown on the Twenty fourth day of
November One thousand nine hundred and
forty six and persons claiming to be the
heir at law of the said Mary Ann Brown
deceased late of Mlanje aforesaid living
at the time of the death of the said Mary
Ann Brown on the Nineteenth day of
August One thousand nine hundred and
forty six or persons claiming to be next
of kin according to the Statutes for
the distribution of intestate estates of the
said Mary Helen Devine Brown and/or
the said Mary Ann Brown living at the
time of their respective deaths as aforesaid
or to be the legal personal representatives
of such of the said next of kin as are
now dead or persons claiming to be en-
titled under the Wills and Codicils of the
abovenamed deceased or Charitable Insti-
tutions and persons claiming to be
entitled under the said Wills and Codicils
of the said deceaseds ARE by their soli-
citors on or before the Thirteenth day of
November One thousand nine hundred and
fifty to come in and prove their claims
at the Chambers of His Honour the
Chief Justice for Nyasaland at the High
Court of Blantyre or in default thereof
they shall be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said Order. Monday
the Fifteenth day of January One thou-
sand nine hundred and fifty one at 9
o’clock of the forenoon at the said
Chambers is appointed for the hearing
and adjudicating upon the claims. Dated
this Twelfth day of April, One thou-
sand nine hundred and fifty. (Sgd.)
M. J. COW, Registrar, High Court of
Nyasaland.
Missing Friend.
the
of the estate of JAMES COOKP^n 18 * 01 ’
Melbourne, is desirous of '- ate ~f
rnn^ brot l! er of the
COOKE, who originally camp f/7
Chewton district, in Victoria InT \ he
would be aged about 80 year’s
any person claiming to be the S airt w, d
ham Cooke, or having any knowledge of
his present whereabouts, kindly g co ° f
mumcate with the PUBLIC TRUSTS'
412 Collins Street, Melbourne ,vSS
Public Notice.
X > EMMANueI LIVANOS, of gS
nationality, born at Agios Nicholaos-vion
Greece, resident 23 years in Australia’
now residing at 152 Campbell Street, Byd.
ney, intend to apply for naturalisation
Act er i94B e Natlonality and Citizenship
Divorce Notices.
IN THE supreme court - ot - new
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO JOHN WALLACE SUTHERLAND
late of 86 Moncur Street Woollahra.—
TAKE NOTICE that MARGARET ANN
SUTHERLAND has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3084 of 1949 on the ground
of your adultery with PATRICIA CROSS
at 43 Moore Park Road Paddington be-
tween 1/5/1949 and 28/6/1949 If you
wish to defend this suit you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
25/8/1950 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from OSBORNE
MITCHEhL ALLEN, Solicitor, 56 Hunter
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In 'Divorce.
TO OKIO HARMON RUSSELL formerly
American Seaman.—TAKE NOTICE that
ENID MAY RUSSELL has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3085 of 1949 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney by 20th October
1950 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from P. W. GRAHAM
STARLING, Solicitor, Hardy’s Chambers,
rear of 5 Hunter Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Relieve
NASAL
SORENESS
dsf
dpe to colds
Don’t suffer—When your nose feels
dried out, or sore, apply Cuticura
Ointment to aid quick, reliei.
Always keep a tin handy g
for cuts, bruises and sores. One
the famous trio —Cuticura 0
ment. Soap and Talcum Powder. 53
futicura
UnbIHTMEMT
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” “from
Aromatic Fine Cut ® le “ z packs.
Top Quality Leaf. “' e priced
Priced 24/- per lb. or 100*
22/- per lb. Eu bbed
“PACIFIC” Fine Cnt Beaoy 2o z.
for Satisfaction and Mildness, ioo9e
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack.
Priced 22/- per lb-
“WINSTON.” That j s now
Matured Pipe Mixture priced 30/-
even better than eVer.
per lb. Loose. good-
Remember WINSTONS. I
Write: MAIL ORDER
Canadian ?M'* C
Tobacco Co.. B i Mi -
PROMPT DBBPATC
Special Q « S E of
A RESCUE
By
F.L. COMBS
SAM COSGROVE,
whiskered, bluff and burly,
was a good neighbor and
an able man. (It takes an
able man to be a good farmer.)
Absorbed in his two-hundred-
acre place, into which he re-
turned half his yearly credit
balance, he let the whole world
go by Sam was perhaps too
much absorbed and could, from
Jime to time, have done with a
If “o'lStll
with all of us. Anyway he was,
with his slow, genial grin, a most
likeable fellow.
So thought the animals on his
place. It was a most engaging
right to see him going ‘thS
rounds of his paddocks of a fine
Sunday morning. He would start
off with Ben, an old cattle-dog
whose opinion it was that Sam
belonged to him, the pet lamb
for that year, and a goat given
to a young Cosgrove who spoilt
it for a week and then forgot it.
When he opened the gate into
the twenty-acre on the brow
Sam’s plough-team would jog
over to meet him and escort him
to the further gate as if he were
royalty. But the beast who made
most fuss of her owner was
Brindle, a pure-bred Jersey get-
ting past middle-age.
Sam was prosaic in every bone
of his good-natured body, but
Brindle was a romantic cow and
she had what teachers are sup-
posed to prize highly in their
pupils and, when they have fifty,
do not—initiative, independence
and self-assertion.
Brindle could remember the
pre-marital days when Sam
would come home in the dark a
trifle mellow, and she would
canter across, mooing, to be
milked by the water-trough, no
doubt thinking what a mess the
place would get into if she were
not there to keep an eye on it.
She had been romantic with her
calves and, when they arrived,
would permit only Sam to go
near them. Young cattle<logs,
however much inclined to
larrikinise, soon learned to give
Brindle a wide berth, and the
rest of the herd treated her with
what in them amounted to de-
ference.
When Sam entered Brindle’s
paddock she at once took pride
of place, even old Ben, who did
not like her, falling bkek.
Thus did what came to be
called Cosgrove’s menagerie
form a procession on those
agreeable, stand-easy Sunday
mornings. Sam s neighbor, Fred
Barlow, not at all a bad sort.
and, when do.ng so, jeopardised
what small hopes he had of
salvation. He asked Sam in vain
for the secret of his husbandry.
But all that Sam could tell him
was that, from his boyhood up,
it had always been like that.
Like many capable farmers he
was not an adept at putting his
garnered wisdom into words,
Whole days spent With no one to
talk to and whole evenings given
to falling asleep over the local
paper had made him the reverse
of garrulous.
Had Sam a fault? Of course
he had. But was it a bad fault?
Well, yes. The careful habits
due to twenty years’ battling to
get on his feet had made him
near. He never seemed to think
that anything wanted doing to
the house, and groaned in pain
when he received his rates
notices. But, be it said to his
credit that he never grudged a
capital outlay on tree-planting,
or fencing or draining ; to his
credit be it also said that he did
not, though glooming and
grumbling, grudge a tidy sum
when it came to helping the
wife’s old people. But beyond
doubt he was too fond of the
mere accumulation of money.
Such graspingness is a delusion
a man getting up in years should
work free of, for—a trite but
true remark—“you can’t take it
with you.”
\\ /HEN' Sam Cosgrove was
vv getting on toward sixty he
sold his place for a very good
figure and retired to a suburb
of Christchurch. He was bullied
into so doing by his wife, who
wanted a bit more human variety
than was to be had on the farm,
and he also had to admit that,
having grafted like a cart-horse
for nearly fifty years, he was get-
ting a bit past hard work.
Cosgrove had a good diges-
tion and a contented mind, but
slowly it became clear to him
that doddering existence on an
urban quarter-acre did not suit
him. His deep-rooted habits as
a son of the soil were against it
and so, quite as much, was his
liking for making money.
Then there was his day to fill in,
and the chores on a town section
do not keep busy a man accus-
tomed to keep going from dawn
to dusk on two hundred acres.
He tried keeping bees, but bees
took to him in a very different
manner from farm animals. So,
against the wishes and advice of
all connected with him, he used
his friendship with the manager
to get a job in a freezing-works.
He learned the job in two
minutes, became expert in it in
two hours and kept steadily at
it for the eight months of a
long killing season. It was a
monotonous job, but soothing to
a man of placid temperament;
and it was a rewarding job. He
was given a long, ragged, but
spotlessly clean and very
hygienic white coat and two
rubber stamps; and, as the
mutton carcasses rode past him
hanging from an overhead rail,
he stamped them in violet ink in
five places.
As to the reward, an average
week put six pounds in the pay-
envelope, a busy one eight to
nine, and the cash never lost its
savor to Sam Cosgrove, who had
not yet started to lay up treasure
to a life beyond life. It had be-
gun to be thus with him when
he was a lad with a sow and a
calf of his own, and there was
never a day when it was not
agreeable to him to reckon up
his gains. His better-half was
dissentient, and commented
sharply on his degradation, but,
as for years past, he treated her
criticisms with bland indiffer-
ence, returning sometimes the
soft answer that does not appease
womanly anger, but, more often,
none.
Things thus pursued the even
tenor of their way for a period
during which half a million
choice carcasses passed along
the overhead rail and were so
certified to a fastidious public by
Sam and' a mate. The sort of
Golgotha the killing-floor was
never fashed Sam. He was too
sensible; did not a market pay-
ing excellent prices have to have
meat? As an ex-farmer he re-
flected with pleasure that there
was hardly anything on four legs
—not even goats —that could
not be turned into good money
nowadays.
The beasts to be slaughtered
went up a ramp td their doom
and, when they were cattle
beasts, there was a certain
amount of perturbed mooing.
Sam’s job kept him standing
■within half a chain of the top
of the ramp.
ONE day—it was the turning-
point in the life of a man
who had never heretofore done
a thing not in accordance with
every-day good sense—Cosgrove
heard a moo that acted on him
like an electric shock and threw
out of gear the sweet reasonable-
ness and sober sanity of his
nature. It was an alarmed moo,
it was also an indignant moo,
and it was beginning to be the
distressed moo of a creature who
feared that circumstances might,
for the first time in her life, be
too many for her. Sam recog-
nised it —he had heard it
hundreds of times before—and,
looking up, saw as he expected,
Brindle destined to become a
boner, on her way to Golgotha.
Then, for the only time in his
life, Sam Cosgrove became a
creature of impulse. Fortunately
it was a slack afternoon and the
ramp was by no means over-
crowded. He afterwards ad-
mitted, reddening with embar-
rassment, that he had lost his
head, and he did not relish
humorous comments being made
in regard to the idiotic thing he
had done. Snatching up a rope
that lay in the cutting-up bay, he
scurried to the ramp, clambered
over the high rails, noosed
Brindle and dragged her down
it. She, being a cow and a
female, resisted strongly.
Sam’s aberration excited un-
easy distrust in the management,
and it was a good thing for him
that, as a lodge-member and a
man, he was on such good terms
with the manager; and that,
despise money as we all may
and do, its emollient effects on
ruffled feelings are so unfailing.
This is why today, on a vacant
leased two acres in Cosgrove’s
suburb, you will see, together
with a Holstien heifer whom she
bullies unmercifully, an aged,
testy Jersey cow.
On some Sundays this pad-
dock is visited by an ex-farmer
at peace with the world because
he has, during the week, earned
his six to eight pounds on the
killing-floor, to add to the
twenty thousand he has out on
first mortgages. There will also
be an aged and crusty dog
called Ben, snapping at a too-
playful young collie —unless, in-
deed, he has got fed up and
gone back home. The aged cow
also munching o ne g h fer f °r
. As always with riirai ■
joke last a long time 5 ’ a
has to endure f ro m nd Sai «
facetious inquiries * ° nies
current price of boner? *i? tlle
gnns the jokers down’S? he
turns no answer. He re '
whh them, but he is le Ss C ° pe
at his wife’s afternoon? "wf
a man!” thinks she when Sf
tng cup in hand and wobKr ll '
pl ate on knee, he trie!
pound cake and exdWnl to eat
monplaces with a We h? C ° m ‘
Pillar of local ST
man! And she is left
less at his cloddishness anT eC f',
with inward fury when h? lld
ably turns the
floor aPPenmSS 0,1 the k Uling-
And, “What a man!”—i n tW
own way, but with a t 0 all.
different mtonaUon-think all Z
animals that ever worked „
Sara Cosgrove. 10r


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON £
o'snicrv'Vv
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
head office and factories
BRISBANE
and AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
, 4 Manufacturers of:
JAXUL WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
„ ELECTRIC USAGES
„ national” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
PROTECTa” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
BURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
Rubber stamps
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
high grade catalogues
illuminated addresses
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Missing FriemL
EDGAR ASHFORD HARVEY, who was
last heard of at Googee, New South
Wales, about One thousand eight hundred
and ninety eight, and who previously lived
in Christchurch, New Zealand. Will any.
one knowing the whereabouts of , the
aforesaid Edgar Ashford Harvey, or any
of his relatives or descendants, please
communicate with MESSRS. MINTER,
SIMPSON & CO., 31 Hunter Street,
Sydney ?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LEONARD CRABTREE late of South
Hurstville.—TAKE NOTICE that WINI-
FRED SARAH HANNAH CRABTREE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1679 of
1950 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 28th day of August
1950 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from R. G. B. TEMPLE-
MAN, Solicitor, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO HARRY THOMAS WALLER late of
Lakemba. N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
AMY LOUISA ANN WALLER has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1477 # ofl 1950
on the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or ex-
cuse If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
23rd of August 1950 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from W. D.
SCHRADER & DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ROBERT TOMLINSON.—TAKE
NOTICE that KATHLEEN MARY TOM-
LINSON has filed Petition for Divorce No.
918 of 1950 on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse and is asking for the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 20th day of October 1950 and obtain
a copy of the Petition free of charge from
JOHN D. NORTON, Solicitor, 393
George Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO LIONEL CECIL CLARKE late of
Forbes.—TAKE NOTICE that MARY
ELIZABETH CLARKE has filed Petition
for Divorce No. 1814 of 1950 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to' defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
21st day of August 1950 and obtain a
copy of thei Petition free of charge from
JOHN D. NORTON, Solicitor, 393 George
Street, Sydney.-—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO KITCHENER JOPFRE FRENCH
NICHOLLS late of Forest Lodge.—TAKE
NOTICE that FLORENCE MAY
NICHOLLS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2321 of 1949 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and ui>wards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 23rd August 1950
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from CHARLES M. CRAN-
ITCH, Solicitor, 295 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Dick Bentley,
from London, cables
i H
m
:
s
wm&
- .
mm
"Good chocolate
like good
co'medy— must'
have plenty of
smoothness and
SNAP— and
Small's Club
Chocolate
has both!"’
"I can well believe that the
louder the snap the better the
, chocolate. Even after travelling
13,000 miles from Sydney to me
here in London, Small’s Club
Chocolate broke with a good
loud snap every time. That’s
chocolate! That "Not-so-sweet”
flavour is a real flavour for
men.”
Smalls
make Creat Chocolate
SUNDRY SHOWS
A Surrealist.
My small daughter, aged two
and a bit-pardon me for men-
tioning her; but after all you
can’t stop me —has invented for
herself a demon named Aundry-
man; and Aundryman, she says,
as she hides her head in deli-
cious terror under the blankets,
“will come.”
From which I deduce—since
nobody has ever tried to frighten
the child with bogies—that
everybody likes a bit of horror
now and again; and so I see
no reason to object to the rocks
with the fangs and foreheads of
devils, the anchor-chains that
turn into gripping arms, the
perilous spikes of metal, the
flowerpiece made of human
heads, the skulls lurking under
old boxes, even the people who
melt into raw flesh and all the
rest of the surrealist parapher-
nalia in James Gleeson’s paint-
ings at Sydney Macquarie Gal-
leries.
I can’t say, of course, that
horror is my favorite dish. I
prefer Mr. Gleeson in small
doses; say, the angry and
ominous red rocks and blue
water, a sort of modern Scylla
and Charybdis fantasy, of “Har-
bor View”; or the soft dark
landscape, dark green and grey
and white, of “Flight,” which
the Marshall Bequest bought for
the N. S. Wales National Gal-
lery and in which there are only
two tiny skulls peeping out from
under a box to remind you that
Aundryman will come.
I can’t say, either, that Mr.
Gleeson always frightens me as
much as I would like him to.
Certainly he doesn’t in the large
paintings such as “The Agony in
the Garden,” which seems to
have something to do with the
agony of man in the machine-
age, but which has more of a
flat, curious intricacy than of
drama or depth. And whether
it is because we grow Qaccus-
tomed to the surrealist symbols
or whether it is merely that I
know in my heart that Aundry-
man is only my old friend the
laundryman, even the small
paintings don’t leave me very
much afraid, I’m afraid.
I can’t say, again, that I alto-
gether like Mr. Gleeson’s drift —
which seems to be towards that
rather squashy mixture of sex
and religion one finds in the
Apocalyptic poets. Not that I
mind him having all these
vaguely unpleasant things in his
subconscious; but why doesn’t
he sometimes paint—as Shak-
speare did in his essentially sur-
realist play “The Tempest”—
some of the exquisite and de-
lightful things, Ariel as well as
Caliban? Even the madman
Richard Dadd had the most
enchanting flowers and fairies in
his daft and surrealist head.
And I can’t say, lastly, that
I am quite sure whether Mr.
Gleeson is a profoundly original
and gloomy mystic who lives
like Dante in his Inferno and
sleeps like John Donne in his
coffin, or simply a clever tech-
nician with his head full of the
art of Hieronymus Bosch, Blake,
Fuseli, Kley, Salvador Dali and
any other surrealist, ancient or
modern, you care to name.
And yet, after all that, the
paintings do convey a certain
macabre sincerity; and beyond
doubt, both in the sculptural
quality of his figures and the
richness and vividness of his
colors, Mr. Gleeson is an artist;
and he may, even, really be a
little alarming: for even if one
knows that A undry man is only
the laundryman, the word, when
you come to think of it, has
indeed a rolling, rumbling, sinis-
ter sort of sound. And who,
anyhow, knows what the
laundryman is?—S.
Douglas Pratt.
Douglas Pratt continues at
Sydney Grosvenor Galleries
mysteriously to appear before
the public as two painters: one
who paints superficial views of
rivers, blue hills and brown
paddocks in oils, well enough in
their way, but without subtlety ;
and another whose pencil-draw-
ings of gum-trees are as delicate
in technique, as subtle in feeling
as you could wish.
Possibly the answer to the
mystery is simply that Mr. Pratt
mixes too much oil with his
paint; it is this that puts a kind
of sticky glitter over the can-
vases, making them not “literal”
landscapes, but something less
than literal, and obscuring the
genuine feeling that must under-
lie them.
There is certainly no doubt
about the fine quality of his
observation in the pencil-draw-
ings, “Trees Near Yass,” par-
ticularly, and the same admir-
able precision and poetry are
carried over into the watercolor
—or tinted drawing—“Trout
Stream, Kiandra,” which is
finely drawn and has a beautiful
impression of cold alpine light
on the hills.
* * * *
Paintings by Raymond Glas's
at David Jones’s Gallery,
Sydney, are in the idiom of
Picasso, filtered through Mexico,
and provide the slightly dis-
couraging information that, even
in that romantic locality, the
nudes are made of triangular
blocks of wood. What is the
use of travel? And what, for
that matter, is the use of daring
experiments in art when they
turn out to be merely exercises
in a fashion prevailing all over
the world? Mr. Glass has wit
and some decorative quality—
“Fire Eater,” for example—and
may well have something to say
later on ; but he has yet to find
out what he wants to say and his
own way of saying it.
Alceo Galliera.
Alceo Galliera, the latest
A.B.C. importation, who, like
Hannibal, crossed the Alps, but
in the reverse direction, with his
wife and on foot, to escape the
Fascists, got the gratitude and
allegiance of a vast house at
Melbourne Town Hall as
quickly as he is said to have
achieved eminence in his home-
land.
His conducting, firm and
knowledgeable, was minus the
exaggerated actions of a
temperamental ballerina that
have been met with in the case
of some conductors. His open-
ing number, a short and sweet
concerto by Bonporti, had a
very charming passage in the
third movement where the
leaders of the first and second
violins carried on a duet with
featherlight orchestral back-
ground.
Nothing is known about
this 17th-century composer ex-
cept his music, but that was
sufficient, and it gave Bertha
Jorgensen’s fiddle extensive solo
work which, as usual, displayed
the fine tone and phrasing of
this born orchestral player who
doesn’t seem to have any ambi-
tions to be a virtuoso.
In the Cesar Franck Sym-
phony in D Minor the conduc-
tor had the Symphony Orchestra
on its toes. In the ’Cello Con-
certo in B Minor, of Dvorak,
Edmund Kurtz showed absolute
mastery over his ’cello —and
what a ’cello!
Campoli.
Violinist Alfredo Campoli has
shifted north to Queensland
after proving beyond doubt to
Sydney audiences that, technical
wizardry apart, his playing is in-
vested with the greatest of all
musical virtues: artistic in-
tegrity. Whether it be a dainty
puffball such as Tubay’s
“Zephyr,” a lilting Spanish dance
by Sarasate or a colossus like
Bach’s unaccompanied .“Cha-
conne,” Campoli accords each
work the best that he has in him.
One of his most satisfying
Sydney performances was the
Mendelssohn Concerto, with
Margaret Schofield at the piano.
Richly drawn throughout, the
slow movement was notable for
the beautiful tone, strong yet
fine. His trilling in the final
Allegro of the Tartini G Minor
Sonata would put the vaunted
song of any bird to shame. His
Bach always commands respect;
in the Prelude, Loure and
Gavotte embellishments never
for a moment clouded the
melodic line.
"The Beaux'
Stratagem."
That period of English history
known as the Restoration must
have had unfortunate associa-
tions for the irate correspondent
of a Melbourne daily who de-
manded that the University
Council put Trinity College in
irons on suspicion of a foul in-
tent to stage an obscene play at
the Union Theatre. A modern
producer would regard George
Farquhar’s comedy as rather
sissy, though it is wittily and
freshly written and has a certain
Shakspearian robustness. Like
Shakspeare, Farquhar gave
words to the English language,
and two of them are in this play,
and, strange to say, he was also
the author of “Necessity is the
mother of invention.”
Boniface is the Bung of the
country inn to which come two
gentlemen of broken fortunes,
one disguised as the other’s ser-
vant, and Lady Bountiful is the
old gentlewoman who cures all
her neighbors of their distempers
without being able to curse those
of her own son. It is a comedy
of intrigue of a familiar pattern,
and its chief merit lies in its
portraiture of rural types like
Squire Sullen, the brutal coun-
try blockhead, Gibbet, the high-
wayman, and Count Bellair, a
French p.-o.-w. of the time, and
his chaplain.
The principal parts, according
to the programme, were played
by Mr. Gardiner, Mr. Ballan-
tine, Mr. Baxter, Miss Holman,
Miss Macdonald and Miss
McLeod; and Mr. Gardiner,
Miss Holman, etc., played them
quite well.
The loudest laugh was ac-
corded the line where one of
the characters advises another to
call on the Bishop—“or Dean if
he be the commanding officer”—
which was apparently taken for
a reference to a recent visitor to
Australia.
* * * *
“Annie Get Your Gun” is
back at His Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne, replete with all its
original features, including Evie
Hayes as the rough-as-bags
prhna donna and dead-shot who
shot the dewdrop off the nose
of a Crown Prince, and plus a
brand-new Frank Butler, Miss
Hayes’s lover and rival marks-
man. He is Earl Covert, an
outsize in romantic heroes and as
rough as Annie blit with a voice
of compelling power and
some sweetness. Annie is ex-
pected to get her audiences every
evening and at the usual
matinees until further notice, or
until “Song of Norway” has
been stropped to razor-sharp-
ness.


STUDENTS OF LIBERATION
B y RRAJECZY
MAY DAY. The huge red flag waved
in the middle of the street like a
glowing stream of flames. The
greyish smoke of burning torches
lay heavily on the air, itching the eyes.
Lights glittered mysteriously in the night,
and blinding spots of magnesium flashed.
The crowd flowed endlessly through the
streets. Between the pavement and
marching procession Communist guards
in uniform ran up and down ; driving
the people, who seemed unaccustomed to
such treatment, like cattle, forward and
forward.
He also marched, deep lines on his
face. His group belonged to the march-
ing formation of University students.
On his left, his friends marched with
hard, equal timing. They had been in-
structed to hold each other’s hands so
that the line would remain straight and
would not mix with men marching in
front or behind. They held each other’s
hands, but with another significance—of
encouragement and remembrance. They
opened and closed their mouths as if
they were singing, but no sound escaped
their throats. This was the little resist-
ance they could now afford.
Nobody remarked this, as each other
group was singing, and each singing
something different. The confusion
seemed to be a part of that nightmare
demonstration. Why couldn’t the
damned rain fall now? He looked
desperately up to the sky. It was clear
and full of stars.
A huge head fluttering in front of his
eyes woke him up. A man marching in
front of him held a red flag on which
Lenin “the Savior” was embroidered. He
stopped for a second as though hit by
lightning. Charles, marching oil his left,
pressed his hand as a warning, and lean-
ing over to him whispered into his ear,
“Look out, you fool!” Oh yes, he was
absentminded as usual. Tears almost
came into his eyes, but he started to open
and shut his mouth to the rhythm of the
song.
He was a prisoner; all of them were.
He .was a handcuffed prisoner in these
fictitious freedom orgies. He knew that
at least two-thirds of these people tried
to force enthusiasm into their faces.
Dead men do not help the cause. And
what would happen if one of them did
draw out of the marching lines, a rebel
against Communism, saying that he
wanted to live his own life? The first
station would be 60 Androssi-street —
headquarters of the'N.K.V.D. —and then
. . , well, then there would be nothing
more.
SLOWLY the procession reached the
Opera House. He pressed Charlie’s
hand ; the signal shot through the line,
and his friends turned their heads to-
wards him. He made a slight movement
of his head towards the Opera
House. They then joined in the
loud rejoicing of the mob that struck
like a scourge against heaven.
In front of the Opera House a huge
platform had been erected and lavishly
decorated with red drapery and red roses.
On it the New Regime was standing. In
the middle of the group the Russian
citizen, the man grown up in the shadow
of the New Goddess, Rakosi, was stand-
ing, his bald head outshining the back-
ground. He was powerful, he was every-
thing, today: the New Law, New Morale,
New Ethic and New Justice. Out of his
piglike face his deeply-placed eyes were
shining contentedly. With his tiny
dwarfish hands he either hammered the
bar in front of him with enthusiasm, or
threw, with the Communist salute, his fist
against the sky, as if symbolising the*
striking punishment of God, terrorism
and club-law.
On one side a Russian general, on the
other the brain of the Communist party
and moving force of the whole machinery,
Revai, was standing. His bony and
ascetic figure, even more emphasised by
his spectacles, leaned forward, absorbed
in his thoughts, and on his rigid face
one could not discover the slightest signs
of a smile. Behind them and all around,
tall, dark-looking men were standifig in
uniform, armed to the teeth. Their
searching gaze was constantly sweeping
the crowd.
The marvelling boys were shouting
with the rest of the procession, as here
the Communist guards were standing
c i oS ely along the pavement; but the eyes
Q f tbe students, glowing with helpless
f uryj b ung desperately on the group
standing on the platform. The Russian
his hands in his pockets, stood
silently’observing the march. Above his
head dark shadows put their heads
together and struck a country from the
map 0 f t he world.
They ha d passed the saluting-base.
Their heads tU rned, they glanced at each
other Their f aces were dripping beads
G f perspiration. Tears came into their
eyes xhe procession marched on,
x a EMBERS of the little party sitting
[N/l si i e ntly about the room followed his
j m p at j ent pacings up and down. He was
unable to
stay in one place and talk,
Their heads ,
were aching and the lights
Letter-columns of newspapers have
been full, recently, of protests by Aus-
tralian university professors against
the Anti-Red Bill. This story is of the
effect of the Soviet take-over upon the
university students of Budapest. Mr.
Rajeczy was a student of the History
of Art there, and art-critic for two
papers. He has been in Australia
about a year. He tells us that his story
is based throughout on fact.
of the torchlight procession were still in
their eyes. He talked and talked and
talked. On his face there was a peaceful
smile, but he talked of blood and death.
The three girls in the party listened with
the same composure as the boys. There
was no difference • of sex now.
Only one person in the room showed
no sign of this exalted fever. He was a
young man of about twenty-one with
deep lines under his eyes. Shabbily
dressed, he was half-lying, half-sitting on
the comfortable couch, and while he
seemed absorbed in the speaker, his hands
played absentmindedly with the hair of
the girl sitting by his side.
“Stop!” he cried out suddenly. The
speaker stopped in the middle of a
sentence. He seemed to know very well
what was to come. From the dim back-
ground someone called: “Cooling down
again, Rob?”
“Yes, I am,”
Rob rose from the couch, and, breaking
through the thick curtain of cigarette-
smoke, he headed for the table, where he
sat down opposite the company, his feet
dangling.
“Listen, boys, I know how it is when
someone shakes you out of a pleasant
dream. You are running blindly into
trouble. Try to understand that there is
no place for individual action. You will
lose more than the cause will gain.”
“Stop speaking in riddles,” one of the
girls interrupted. “You are always telling
us to be cautious. Yet there is not a
day without serious sabotage. Half
of it even the papers have to publish, and
usually the article concludes that the
political police are on the trail. And
whom do they catch? Nobody.”
“Too many,” Robert said quietly.
The group iplt the icy breeze of death
in this quietness. They did not know
Rob very well, who he was, or what he
was doing. They trusted in him as in
their own brothers. They knew that the
Political Police were looking for him. All
had offered him their homes as hideouts,
but he had smiled cynically; “I always
stay alone.”
“Look here” —he started to talk again
—“it seems to me that it’s getting serious
for you. Up to now your only weapon
has been passive destruction. Now you
want anarchy. All right, I assume you
are right. But, please, would one of you
tell us his plan of action?”
THE young man who, after being in-
terrupted, had maintained defiant
silence, now stepped forward so that the
light of the lamp fell on his face.
“If you kindly allow me, 1 shall sketch
the situation.”
“Speak up, speak up,” the other en-
couraged him with a slight smile, “but
give us time to light a cigarette. It’s
easier to absorb with a cigarette in your
mouth.”
The others regarded this as an insipid
joke. The two opponents lit cigar-
ettes. The young man began to talk.
“When the siege of Budapest ended
there was chaos. Even among the vic-
torious Russian troops. Searching the
city for different kinds of explosives was
out of the question. We used this con-
fusion to hide two machine-guns, rifles,
boxes of hand-grenades, pistols, sub-
machine-guns and rifles in a cellar of the
Blocksberg. Besides this, we have a
considerable amount of ammunition.
Now we only have to proceed to action.”
Robert did not cease smiling during
the address. The speaker, on whose fore-
head beads of perspiration were shining,
could not bear this sarcastic smile any
longer.
“Stop smiling, for Heaven’s sake. I
can’t” He nervously broke his cigar-
ette in two. “I know I am not a strategist
and I am not born to make war plans,
but try to understand —we can’t stand
this any longer.”
Excitement lay heavily in the smoky air
of the room. Their nerves were strained
and in their blood the ghost of murder
had risen. They could not play hide-and-
seek any more, stealing along streets.
They were afraid that their meetings
would be discovered. Aware of their
helplessness, they felt something must be
done.
Bewildered, Robert looked
around: a student of medicine, two
girls from the Academy of Music, a
high-school student, a girl student of
national economy, two future land-
surveying engineers and, with himself,
three students of Art. All well-bred
children of good families, of whom only
two had been in the war. His voice
was so hoarse when he began to speak
that he hardly recognised it:
“Is there any one of you who is not
living with his parents or relations?”
The question hit them like a bullet out
of a gun.
“Who is so unknown amongst you that
when caught dead or alive would not
bring disaster to at least ten or even
more innocent people? And which of
you is of the opinion that the life of a
Bolshevik soldier is worth the lives of a
dozen or more intelligent Hungarians?
Even if we are speaking of an attempt
on someone’s life, which of you would
not be mown down by a primitive kolhos
—a farmer who knows how to handle
a gun? Who has got a real plan?”
The questions burst out so quickly one
after the other that none had time to
answer. Firmly holding the edge of the
table, Robert, his eyes wide open, looked
at the bewildered company.
One of the students of Art, a returned
serviceman, broke the silence. “I know
a place” The heads turned towards
him. “At the end of Kobinya there is a
concentrated ammunition depot which
can be approached unnoticed through
the cemetery of Kerepes.”
“All right. And what are you going
to do with the guards placed immediately
in front of the depot, even if you succeed
in getting round the other guards? If
you shoot them down I assure you that
in a few seconds the guards of the near-by
garrison will be on to vou ” n u
looked at him expectantly. Robert
shyly. ''“We shallow to’finishV 1 " 10 ' 1
quietly. We shall have to tab U ° ff
tor instance.” ab th 'm.
“Hmm. Would you now be so ki „ H
to show me the persons at this meet"!
who would be able to finish-off S
guards. I can assure you they are likely
to be strapping big fellows.” y
O/ITK half-closed eyes Robert saw
V V them looking each other over
Listen to me, children,” he began in
a different manner. “I can understand
completely what is going on in [ OUr
minds. I am in the same situation r
have to stand the same pains and sorrows
as you do but I must not even show
myself on the open street. But you still
have the opportunity to invade their
tanks, 1
“Shall you be progressive minds'? Of
course you shall! Attend the lectures.
Do not think of how to boil the lecturer
alive in oil. In such a way you play the
game against yourself. You have to
know Eber, Marx or Lenin better than
they do. Yes, better, but you musnt
reveal that. In the contrary, you want
to learn, you want to become Com-
munists, and therefore you always ask •
yes, ask and ask, but so that the lecturer
reveals himself, his own statements as
lies. You are the fighters of the mind,
your brains are worth more than sub-
machine-guns.
“The new regime needs a new spiritual
frame, a generation of fresh spiritual
sensibility. And the best way to succeed
over the men of spirit, or to mislead
them, is to use their own weapons. There-
fore the Communists will always keep
them on the spiritual base. After having
shown all the sins of the old regime, they
place in front of the natural individualist
the brilliant mosaic of the Communist
philosophy and sociology. He is never
allowed near the practical side of this
philosophy. He will probably for a very
long time not recognise that the dreams
he worships were nothing else than lies,
dirty but very tricky lies.
“A great number of clearminded men,
with the utmost willingness to do good,
fought for decades a dangerous under-
ground war against the leaders of yester-
day. lam not speaking about those half-
educated milksops who now have desire
to become great men under the protect-
ing wings of the motherly Soviet regime.
I am speaking about men who played a
game at the risk of their lives for the
cause. Now, when the dream of their
life becomes reality, they,see that on their
own spiritual level the same recurs, the
same baseness they had been fighting tor
years—not the incipient difficulties of a
colossus that is slowly being built, but
rooted deeply in the foundation of the
whole system. .
“These men are fighting with us. Then
number is even bigger than you wou
imagine, and is increasing. Increasing
and decreasing as their turn comes,
as Nero’s thumb turned downwards
‘Recipe ferum’ —is held above
heads. But they are in our ranks. Alive
or dead their shadows are behind
and show us the way. That is our fighh
that is our war. Here is a mow mu d*
ous audacity; a more bnllian
needed than to steal along That da y
with weapons in our hands. be
will come, too, but then we
assassins, but avengers.”
Exhausted, he stopped. nd w ith
one could see a fire The
shaking hands he held his g tbe
young eyes were far away. 0 {
silence amidst the descending unified
the cigarettes they felt the^ se L dy; they
as one arm, one brain an , wn [he four
would have liked to break bre hands,
walls of the small room with bare
'"THE boy sat, his head m ng ha ago ,
1 at the table where, nt
Robert had been sen t
Robert, in his caustic time-
the whole gang home. g e had
said, for children to silently anC !
watched as the menn e the eye s of
cautiously said fl ’ te d image of
all he could see the hearts,
the fire Robert hghted m t jn the
For a long time he br ° single electric-
small, smoky room wit


liaht bulb. Sleep overpowered him;
consciousness left him with a slight sigh.
oOD heavens, where am I?” A
Ofew seconds ago he was in the
room of that little house at the end of
the garden. Now he was standing on one
side on a road that is completely unknown
to him, holding a submachine-gun.
He pressed the submachine-gun in his
hands and on the metal part of it his
hand’ slipped because of the perspira-
tion “No,” he thought, “this is no
dream.” The landscape recalled some
place in the country, but at the same time,
far away, he could see flashing lights and
the descending silhouettes of large build-
he slid his foot forward on
the grass by the side of the roadway
while the muzzle of his gun described
threatening semicircles before him.
On his right was a wall. He went
straight towards it. The wall was at least
ten feet high. Even if he wanted to,
he would not be able to get over it. What
could it be? Barracks? Jail? No, it is
most likely the fence of some kind of
castle. This resolution quietened him a
little, and he walked faster. But after
going ten feet he saw a dim light was
shining out of the wall.
Ugh! He almost vomited. His head
was dizzy; red and blue circles jumped
inside his eyes. His clothes were soaked
through with perspiration; beads were
continually running down his face, but
grasping his chattering teeth together he
started into the direction of the light. He
had to take his finger off the trigger of
the submachine-gun, as he was afraid of
pulling it at a nervous shock.
Without even feeling that he
approached it at all he was already stand-
ing in front of the light. It was the
moon shining through a hole in the wall.
Most likely a grenade had torn this hole.
With a sigh of relief he jumped through
the opening. The moon’s brilliance almost
overpowered him. He leaned exhausted
against a block of stone that was stand-
ing near by.
“Isn’t it funny!” he thought. A long
row of crosses in front of him sent the
cold creeping up his spine. They were
really crosses. It was a big stone cross
he was leaning on. Now everything be-
came clear to him. This was that certain
cemetery of Kerepes through which it
was easily possible to approach the
Russian ammunition depot.
LIKE an experienced soldier he stole
forward among the crosses. Before
he had gone far the huge figure of a
Russian rose out of the ground, holding
high above his head a red-hot glowing
sickle. They faced each other like blocks
of stone ; but he could feel the murderous
challenge of the beastlike face. His finger
pulled the trigger.
For a short second small yellow flashes
of light emerged from the muzzle of the
submachine-gun, and then there was a
deadly and dreadful silence, and a body
fell at his feet. With wide, open eyes he
looked at it. This was not the corpse
of that Russian monster ; he did not have
grey hair —Oh! No, no! There was
some mistake. He bent down —“Father /”
His eyes flashed with the fire of mad-
ness. There was only a deep hole in the
place of his brains, and in this with pitch-
black, granite stones only one word was
inscribed: Father! Now from every-
where black, shadowlike figures emerged,
and ran towards him. He did not even
feel as the weapon spat its bullets at the
attacking mob. He saw only their life-
less bodies faffing like sandbags. And
then there was silence again.
With stiff feet and body he wandered
among the silent corpses, and his dry lips
voicelessly uttered what his glassy eyes
senselessly transmitted; “This is my
mother, that is my uncle and nearly all
of the gang are here, too.” The sky burst
violently in two, and through the cleft an
indescribable storm of colors and lights
broke in.
Somewhere far away the chime of a
clock sounded painfully
p ACH day the gang met at his sick-bed.
‘—'With anxiety they watched his fight
with visions they could only imagine. The
doctor, who for two days had scarcely
left him, only lifted his hands helplessly.
“A very serious delirious fever. We can
only trust in the mercy of the Almighty.”
The parents (he was their only child)
suffered ; the gang blamed themselves and
their secret meeting. They had found
him two mornings ago on the floor of
the room of this small cottage where they
held their big meeting,
pOBERT was waiting nervously and
'■impatiently, as if he suspected that
something terrible had happened in the
ro °m of the little cottage. When they
entered they at first carefully closed the
double-door and only then they dared to
switch on the light. Robert was sitting
in the corner. In spite of the darkness
his more-than-usually pale face shone out.
He Waved his hand for greeting. “Where
is he?” They all knew of whom he was
speaking. Finally one of the girls
said, “He is very sick —a serious neurosis.”
Rob said nothing. In a calm and low
voice, staring in front of her, the girl
told as much as they knew.
Then Rob spoke again in his nicotine-
hoarse voice; “And how are you getting
along?”
One of the students of Art said,
“According to the new democratic Uni-
versity Regulations dated from yesterday,
in future only students who are members
of a student movement or association
will receive any kind of patronage.
Further, a counsel elected by the students
has the responsibility of controlling the
course of lectures, that of the professors,
too. Now any students not in a union
will be taken special care of by this
committee which, by the way, has got
an absolute veto.”
“It is worth while to note,” another
said, “that two days ago all kinds of
student movements were suspended
and all the students are to be concen-
trated in two big organisations. One is
for the high school, the other for the
university students. Both are Communist
organisations,”
Now the national economist added,
her fair flying around her intelligent, high
forehead. “All students of the Univer-
sity and from all the other colleges are
required to attend the lectures of George
Takacs. Takacs is a traitor, a white-
haired boy of the University in Moscow.
He is now a Russian citizen. His subject
is ‘Dialectic Culture, Philosophy.’ You
also have to hold your own lectures
about this, otherwise you get no signa-
tures at the end of the semester, and you
know what that means —immediate sus-
pension.”
ONE of the girls of the Academy of
Music took a deep sip of the sweetish
smoke of her cigarette. “According to
the unanimous resolution of the Minister
of Education and the Democratic
Students’ Board of the Republic, it is the
patriotic duty of every student to fulfil
his quota of ‘Storm Labor.’ That
means that you have to have one
hundred and eighty working hours
in a semester [half-year]. On set days
we are to march out in faculties to
various factories where, in the literary
meaning of the word, we have to perform
‘Storm Labor.’ As a violinist my first
job will be trench-digging. This is all
voluntary. We do not accept a payment
of any kind for our patriotic work. If
you haven’t got enough working hours
there is no subscription. And we know
what that means. The aim, however, is
noble; they want to bring the brain
workers nearer the physical workers”
“And the result,” the other interrupted,
“is completely typical. One of these
groups went out to a sheet-metal factory.
The metalworkers are the biggest Com-
munists. Well, the workers instantly held
a meeting and afterwards attacked with
the slogan: ‘You won’t be the ones to
spoil our overtime.’ They gave the
students a severe thrashing.”
THE lad who started the discussion
spoke again: “The students are to
set up ‘voluntary’ labor brigades to
beautify their two months’ vacation in
summer with railroad and channel build-
ing and with work for the water board.
This year it is not compulsory, but the
motion is already carried for next year,
and it will become obligatory,
“I want to tell you about something
else, too, that might seem only a baga-
telle, but it is worth while mentioning, as
it is very characteristic of the New
System. In each faculty, Study Groups
have to be set up consisting of eight or
ten students. The aim is that the more-
talented should drag along the others.
We had no objections. We set up our
small circle, all old friends. Well, what
happened? The Souveron Student
Council at once put a confidant into our
group. We have never seen this idiot
before. At our first common study I, as
the best in the group, had the task of
asking the questions. Our new member,
he was unable to answer the most ele-
mentary questions, I could not resist
asking "him: ‘Colleague, might I ask you
what your schooling is?’ Sitting up in
his chair proudly, he answered: ‘Primary
school and the ideological schooling of
the Communist party. Anyhow, I am
working so much for the Party that I
haven’t got time to study.’ He hadn’t
the slightest idea of anything. I went to
the Students’ Council. They laughed at
me: ‘We don’t need swats and living
lexicons but fighting ideologists,’ ”
%
ROBERT sat meditating. They looked
at him expectantly. Suddenly he
awoke.
“Children,” he began, “I presume the
boy’s father is in real danger.”
They started at the sudden change of
subject.
“It is on account of his shop,” Robert
continued, painfully pressing the words
from his lips.
They all knew about it. Their rich
friend’s father had a very nice little shop
in one of the best parts of the city. He
worked there with two assistants; it was
a silk-mercery. They knew that to shop-
keepers and merchants who do not capitu-
late to the Communist party sooner or
later an accident might occur. For ex-
ample, two detectives might visit him
and, saying that a prisoner had accused
him of being a Fascist accessory, they
might take him to the headquarters of
the Political Police, On the following
day an official report might arrive that
the accusation had proved true, but that
no charge would be made as the accused
had jumped from the sixth floor of
headquarters. The corpse might be
fetched between two and five in the after-
noon.
In the first few months the people
thought such stories were only fairy-tales.
But now they were merely terrified. Like
an insatiable monster, this deadly machine
demanded its victims. As illegally
obtained property, not being looked after
well enough, businesses were confiscated
and became automatically the property
of the State or the Party.
“Give the old man a hint that his and
a few of his friends’ turns have come,”
Robert said, “And be careful about his
son! ”
For a moment he stared ahead; then,
energetically lifting his head, called over
to the boy sitting near the switch: “Turn
off the light, I have to go.” The light
went out, slowly the door was opened,
“Cheerio,” and they could hear his foot-
steps.
When the light flashed up again there
was anxiety in all their faces.
“What’s up with Rob?”
“He didn’t say very much ; he didn’t
advise us what to do.”
One of the surveyors, who had been
silently smoking his pipe in a dark corner
of the room, spoke now with an unusually
calm voice: “Did you hear the detona-
tions last night?”
“Yes, we did. What happened?” It
came like an echo from all parts of the
room.
His eyes were fixed on a point on the
opposite corner of the room. “That
ammunition chamber was blown up. The
one we were speaking about.” He said
finally, “There was some shooting, too,
but nobody got caught.”
There was a long silence; then they
quietly discussed Robert’s warning.
Something should be done with the old
man. One of the girls agreed to take
over the job. They had been afraid of
the task, for they knew how defiant the
old Hungarian was. The usual whispered
“Goodbye”; then all dispersed in the
darkness.
PULLING her small sweater down
further, the girl started in the direc-
tion of the house. She pursed her desir-
able mouth. The old gentleman had to
disappear! Her slender figure, empha-
sised by the long trousers she wore,
advanced with firm steps on the silky grass
of the path that led to the back of the
house. The moon beamed flippantly
down from the starbright sky on this
appealing sight. What a mood! Her deep
sigh made the Milk-road tremble. Gently
she knocked at the back door. After
a short while she heard heavy steps.
The father suspiciously opened the
door a slit. When he was convinced that
it was a friend he hurriedly opened it
wide. She quickly jumped into the ante-
room and waited until the father closed
the door and locked it.
“You’re coming to my son, aren’t
you?”
“No.” She shook her head. “I came
to you, Uncle Peter.”
“Is there some trouble with your
parents?” His voice became anxious.
“No.” She shook her head again.
“There is some trouble with you.”
The man smiled. In his smile there
was the pride of his Hungarian ancestors,
farmers and soldiers. “I am ready.” He
did not deign to say any more.
This was what they had been afraid of.
“But Uncle Peter!” Desperately she
jumped in front of him as he started in
the direction of the inner room. “Don’t
you think of your son? If something
happens to you, no doctor will be able
to save him any more.”
He stopped as though struck by light-
ning. “He has already had conscious
moments,” he murmured, more to him-
self than to her. “Who told you that they
are plotting against me?”
She did not say a word. She smiled.
“Like my son,” he thought. Not only
was he sorry for them, growing up in
such times. He was even a little bit
scared of them. Nobody said anything.
It was not possible to get a word out of
them.
“All right, I’ll go tomorrow,” he agreed
bitterly.
“Not tomorrow, but in half an hour.”
Her brain was working feverishly. “I
am going to Aunt Ilka. We will pack
something for the journey.”
The father started in the direction of
his son’s room. She took a deep breath.
She must break it to the wife. He
turned, standing in the doorway: “My
wife will be back in ten minutes. She
went to the chemist’s.”
“That’s better,” she thought. “When
Aunt Ilka comes back I’ll have finished
packing. She would only be hindering
me,”
As if she were at home, she went into
the adjoining bedroom; the wide-open
windows let in the fresh and scented air
of spring. As silently as possible she
opened the wardrobes and threw things
on the bed. The door was not quite shut.
A thin beam of light forced it's way
through from the other room. She
listened to the pleasingly soft voice of the
father.
Suddenly she stopped. A door was
opening in the front part of the villa
Well, now the wail she had feared was
inevitable; there was no way to avoid
it. It was still fortunate that he would
be going away today and not tomorrow.
Anyhow it would be more Someone
pushed the door of the other room open
forcefully. That was not like Aunt Ilka.
On tiptoe she went to the slightly-open
door and looked through the slit. Oppo-
site the slit in the door was the bed of
the boy. Near it the father was stand-
ing, his face as pale as chalk. In front
of him two plainclothes detectives and
a policeman with a submachine-gun slung
from his neck were facing him. It was
too late.
SHE had to hold her throat to stifle
a cry of despair.
“Yes, gentlemen?” the father asked
in a firm voice.
One of the detectives winked mock-
ingly. “Yes, gentlemen?” He ironically
imitated the father: “You’ll come with
us to' headquarters, you old monkey, and
then we shall have a nice long talk.”
She was so stiff as she stood there
watching from the door that she felt
she could not move if they came to open
it. The boy sat up, the fever in his eyes,
and glared at the detectives. They took
the father now by the arm.
Automatically the boy’s hand went to
the top of a small bedside table, and out
of a heap of medicine-glasses aind -bottles
grabbed the shining case of the ther-
mometer. The dark-faced pol.ceman saw
the glass flash in the boy’s hand and
pulled the trigger. The boy did not feel
anything any more ; his distorted, child-
like face seemed astonished ; he looked
so rigid.
THE girl did not know how she got
out into the dark street. Perhaps
through the window. It was just the
same. With her hands she had to get
hold of the fence, so weak she felt. She
was not crying; she could not cry.
A few houses down, at the cross strdet,
Robert was sitting, holding the fence with
his left hand. His face was drawn with
pain. Even as he heard the approaching
steps he tried to stand up, but he fell
back. He leaned his back against the
fence, his right hand in his pocket. He
bent his head as if thinking, but from
the corner of his eyes he watched. He
recognised the girl straight away, even
from a distance, with a sigh of relief.
She had almost passed him when he
grabbed at her. “Hello, Catty, it’s
me, Rob. Come on; help me to the
empty block up the road and bring some
bandages. I have been optimistic for
two days, but now Hello, what’s up
with you?” And again pain flashed
through his face as his feverish eyes
looked into the distressed eyes of the
girl. “Did something happen?”
Calmly, without the slightest emotion,
she gave an account of what she had
seen.
“When?”
She did not know. Her calmness made
him shiver. She nodded. “I think I’ll
kill now!”
The always-strongminded, the always-
cynical man bowed his head down to the
fence and wept.
A few steps further down the street a
banner with a big red star half-torn down,
floated in the air:
PROLETARIANS !
THE DESTINY OF THE WORLD
LIES
IN YOUR HANDS!


POEMS OF J. SHAW NEILSON
COLLECTED EDITION
Australia s Lyric Poet
Edited with an introduction by the late Robt. H. Croll, this volume contains
all those poems that Neilson himself considered best.
PRICE 18s. 6d. (Post Free 195.)
Obtainable NOW from all good Bookshops or from
LOTHIAN PUBLISHING COMPANY PTY., LTD.,
1 Fleming Place, Melbourne.
Authors are asked to mark their name and address clearly on all MSS. submitted.
Even faces
tender as his
M
/mm
/'ipci'
n
-■ ■••••:■.•>;•
.- ->.x. .
feel wonderful
as his
-M
18
'V-Sjc 1 • - ; ;*x‘:
•.*
Hi®
>XN
after a cool,
cool Ingram
shave...
-m
FRIEND, if you're a man who moans in the morning
. . meet Ingram's Shaving Cream and start cheering!
Ingram's helps condition your skin for the blade while
it wilts your whiskers. Cools and soothes your face.
And the coolness lingers on and onl Man, get Ingrams
Shaving Cream to-day—in the handy jar—at any chemist.
Combines its own face lotion
Product of Bristol-Myers
q
mgm,
SHAVING C
Ingrams
Shaving
Cream
hr Cool Stum «nd
Coofortablr fstet
Um
iwn
3L
m
it
mr
fought the flame and heat.
They rescued man and child; ’
Undaunted in that dreadful street
Where roared the fire-god wild.
Soaked, spent with toil, but staunch and
bold.
They left the street secure.
And saved themselves from cough and cold
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
- ns' Va*
W/
7&
j/
rt
ni
ft*
on
Olympic
troja«c
AUSTRALIA’S MO RELIABLE
TRUCK AND BUS TYRES
otjM 4s ®
Ds
UCT OF 1H f
LY MP IC HRF 4 RUBBER _
The Horse
By M. H. Ellis
A few weeks ago in Sydney
Lady Chauvel unveiled a
memorial to the horses of the
Desert Mounted Corps in World
War I.
It is a very little memorial
to such great sacrifice ; a bronze
relief of three horses and a
typical Desert Corps Digger set
in stone beside the gate of the
Botanical Gardens near the
starting-point of Anzac marches.
It is appropriately, but appar-
ently without forethought,
almost opposite the site of the
old Dragoon Barracks built by.
Governor Macquarie in 1812, the
habitat of Australia’s first
mounted troops. A few hundred
yards away to the rear of its
setting, too, rise the imposing
wails of the Conservatorium of
Music, Greenway’s old Govern-
ment House stables, from the
stallions’ quarters in four corner
towers of which there no doubt
descended many an animal which
went forth to war against the
Turk and the German.
Thus it may be said that in the
very heart of the little tract of
land round the top of Macquarie-
street where Australia’s military-
horse history began, where Phillip
kept his little group imported
from the Cape and down the
slope in the Botanical Gardens
the first grain was sown, the tale
of Australian military horses has
had finis written to it.
The emu-feathers will never
wave again, and already men
are forgetting what the thunder
of a squadron sounds like or
what it is like to drowse at night
listening to the patient, restless-
ness of picketed lines.
The Australian Horse
The Australian bush horse, in
appearance, in his civilian hey-
day, as in the Desert Mounted
Corps, might not have been
much to look at. The owners of
the Godolphin Arabian, the
Darley Arabian and* Captain
Byerly’s Turk charger in King
William’s wars —the three stal-
lions from whom all the world’s
best thoroughbreds have sprung
—might have eschewed his com-
pany. But he was -every inch
a horse or he would not have
survived.
The bulk of his kind was born
in paddock or lived on the
range, bred from all sorts
of experimental blood, begin-
ning with Phillip’s importa-
tions from the Cape, from
Achin ponies and Campbell’s
Arabians, English hacks and the
great early-day stallion, Model,
which Browne of Appin (whose
descendant, Major - General
Spencer Browne was a remount
officef in World War I) brought
over to improve the breed.
He was broken-in with strange
rites and some violence and
would not have known a brush
if he had seen one. He was ex-
pected to go unshod to a large
extent through most of his bush
history. He was expected to
have the dash and agility and
lightness of a circus nag com-
bined with the stamina of a
wheel horse in the R.F.A. He
(or she) was considered little use
unless able to travel 200 miles
or more a week over all sorts of
tracks, and it was nothing out of
the way for a good station horse
to cover 100 miles in a single
day.
When work was done on the
road the Australian horse
did not share the campfire.
He was turned out unrugged
and uflrubbed-down on the
chilliest night in hobbles to warm
himself against the bitter wind
or the rain by finding his own
supper. In summer he did this
in company with a cloud of
sandflies, and if they caused him
to “travel” he was vastly un-
popular.
And when he grew old they
used him to snig wood or put
him in a home paddock, and
every time anybody about the
place felt like going half a mile
from home he sent a blackboy
for the old fellow who had been
relegated to rank of night horse.
It is no wonder that the Aus-
tralian horse became tough and
equal to anything in the hands
of a newer and younger genera-
tion and set Britons marvelling
when Charlie Cox took home his
cargo of New South Wales
Lancers to Queen Victoria’s
golden jubilee that rangy and —
by British cavalry standards —
unsubstantial Waters could
carry Cox’s giants in heavy
squadron order without apparent
effort. They wondered even
more in South Africa and still
again more in Palestine.
Light Horse History
The first Australian force to be
horsed was a posse of dragoons
organised by Macquarie, mainly
to serve as orderlies and mes-
sengers, but before that there
had been horses in the Rum
Corps, though kept purely for
the pleasure and profit of the
officer-owners.
In 1826 the first Mounted,
Police were formed in N. S.
Wales, and these were essentially
military. The corps’ uniforn
came from the 14th Ligh
Dragoons, and it was fearsomely
armed with sabre, carbine and
horse-pistol. Its saddles were
military with horn and holster.
The trooper carried his rolled
cloak before him and his valise
behind him. He carried his own
farrier-outfit. And his officers
were captain, sergeant-majors
and sergeants. A specification
of 17-18 hands was set for his
troop horses, which must surely
have been the most powerful in
use anywhere in that day, ex-
cept, perhaps, in heavy British
cavalry squadrons. They came
to be the pride of the force which
set a police tradition of horse-
manship which still subsists.
Shortly many of them were bred
from a magnificent stallion im-
ported by Governor Brisbane,
14 hands only high, which pro-
duced animals that “could
scarcely be overweighted or over-
ridden.”
Military volunteer mounted
units began to take shape almost
exactly a century ago, when Earl
Grey announced his intention of
withdrawing all British forces
for use in Maoriland. They were
not, however, finally withdrawn
until 1870. , •
In the ’fifties a few troops of
mounted rifles were formed in
all the colonies, and the words
Light Horse were applied to
them in 1860 in Brisbane, where
there were a whole 10 of them
enrolled.
The real formation of Light
Horse regiments did not begin
until the ’eighties, when the New
South Wales Lancers came into
existence in 1885. But from
the ’forties onward there had
been, and continued to be, more
Australian horses engaged in
warfare than there were Aus-
tralian men, since the Indian
Army’s cavalry regiments would
have been lost without their
Waters, which were imported in
thousands.
Finally, the South African
War established the role of the
Australian bushman’s primary
rote in World War I.
In Palestine
The Light Horse, when war
broke out in 1914, consisted of
about 450 officers and 6500
troopers. Only a few were
townsmen. A very large pro-
portion were volunteers. The
bulk were men who lived pro-
fessionally with their horses in
times of peace. They were essen-
tially mobile mounted infantry.
the more mobile becaiL .
leaven of their officer? l rge
qualities" lightni "g
in.vhun.ed b i e S be 8
4 «r rusfi-Sfc
British cavalry officers 'p the
the more at first sight Th Egypt
fashioned their uffiforl 6 01611
something as unlike
conception as possible ® cial
mg down their
like tramp^" 6111 j ° y
stee'plechaser'whh a^sidethS
was reputed to look in the da t
like a bark hut, and a L rk
capacity which made light of ft
stone of very lively ff
riding brigadier-general. pj a ; n
Bill was not the exemplar of S
whole of the 30,000 animah
which went with the Mounted
Desert Corps in its prime He
was just an odd sample,
they came in all sorts, shapes
and sizes.
Aussie v. Oont
It was not long before the
Australian horses had estah
fished themselves even against
the camel for desert work de
spite the initial scorn of the un
initiated. The A.L.H. were for-
tunate in having an overall
leader of experience in Chauvel,


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
m
V
yrntf*
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
csviote tkatt
A FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’*
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
in
*Phone BW 1361 (10 line*)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
Legal Notice.
I, OTTOKAR RICHARD KRIZ, of Aus-
trian nationality, bom at Vienna, Austria,
resident 12 years in Australia, now re-
siding at 5 Wallace Street, Concord, in-
tend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
*
sa
MM
ESTABLISHED 18$**
SPECIAL hospit
Ss|
s
S" 6'inuia and •qtthbih
st mm.
H**'fount «COTT * mur. t'
BRAm
Dy
The Brandy
you’ll be
prond to
oiler ...
N.B.W. DISTRIBUTORS
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
sd
IJI
The Machinery
People
281 Latrobe St., Melbourne. MU 2321
• Engineers’ Machine Tools, e Portable
Electric Tools • Woodworking Machines.
• Circular and Band Saws. • All types
Saw Repairs.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... ... 2/-
Yearly Subscription.. ... 22/6
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper
Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
SAVE WITH
VAUXHALL
SHOWROOMS
in first cost...
Lowest priced 6 cyl. Saloon in Australia is Vauxhall 18 h.p.
Velox. Lowest priced 6 cyl. Tourer is Vauxhall 18 h.p. Caleche.
Lowest priced 12 h.p. car is Vauxhall Wyvern. Yet—Vauxhall
effortlessly outperforms many cars of bigger horsepower and
much higher price.
c
1
as.?
in running cost...
You save in all running and upkeep costs. Many owners
testify that Vauxhall “Velox” gives up to 28 m.p.g. and
Vauxhall “Wyvem” up to 35 m.p.g., with normal driving at
30 m.p.h. In all ways Vauxhall engineering superiority
reduces upkeep costs in bodies, chassis and engine to a
minimum. Vauxhall O.H.V. engines are low revving so they
pull better, wear less and last much longer.
9
in sustained value ...
When, at long last, yon change your Vauxhall for a later model,
you will make your final saving. Past experience proves that
Vauxhalls have uncommonly high resale value because of
their good looks and the great fame of their long life.
Jatjjlislj as
18 h.p., 6 cyl. Velox
Caleche (Tourer) £620
Saloon (Irrfp. Pan.) £695 (Cloth Trim)
Saloon (Imp. Pan.) £705 (Leather Trim)
12 h.p., 4 cyl. Wyvern
Caleche (Tourer) £570
Saloon (Imp. Pan - ) £645 (Cloth Trim)
Saloon (Imp. Pan.) £655 (Leather Trim)
All prices plus Sales Tax.
Enquire about the u Air Chief ” built*
for- Vauxhall radio also the con-
venient G.M.A.C. purchase plan.
k.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
or see your local Authorised Dealer.
Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia.
Vll/24
who appreciated the difference
in roles between cameleers and
light horse and between light
horse and cavalry, whose func-
tions. they shared in scouting re-
connaissance and patrol, though
they were theoretically raiders,
rapidly - moving infantrymen
whose work was wrapped up in
surprise rather than in direct
heavy assault on an enemy.
The camel can carry a load
which would break down
several horses. He can travel
farther and faster than a horse ;
but essentially he is a walking
lorry, not a mount. In versatile,
man-of-all-work tasks based on
speed, on daring, on unsettling
tactics along an enemy’s flank,
the Australian Light Horse had
no peer, as was proved again and
again, and this largely because
of the hardiness, endurance,
faithfulness and intelligence of
the Australian stock-horse,
Ironbark frames full of storm
and eagerness for fight like
“Fighting Charlie” Cox might
sometimes forget the Light
Horsemen’s role, turn them into
cavalry and send them, quart-
pots drumming on flanks and
gear pounding on saddles, into
a full galloping charge on enemy
positions, as was done at
Magdhaba. Even Chauvel could
on occasion use them in cavalry
tactics as he did with Grant’s
4th Light Horse brigade
at Beersheba; but such ad-
ventures were based on surprise
and spe ± ,he faL ofrarid
Turkfsh Are, it was with die
bayonet and not the sword that
Cameron and Bouchier and
their merry men went to work.
It was only in August, 1918, that
,he T swo d rdf SS
were give f , j t { •
kept to rifles for* his two bn-
gades, to Cox sa i u y
appointment.
Endurance and Fortitude
However, it was not of ad-
ventures in battle that men of
the Desert Mounted Corps still
like to talk. They dwell instead
on feats of endurance, long
patrols, thrusts through waterless
country.
They talk of the excitement
of the night ride of the First
Brigade to El Arish rather than
of Magdhaba which followed;
of Scott’s neat little ride along
the Muksheib to Jifjafa in Sinai
rather than of the actual small
affray there. They talk not of
the frustrations of Katia and Bir
El Abd, but of the gallant
neddies of the 2nd and
3rd Regiments in that phase
dragging themselves back to
Romani after 59 hours of
action, during which some
of them had never tasted
water.
There was one squadron of
the 6th Regiment which in that
affair actually went for 60 hours
without water. Some horses
on the way to Katia lay down
in the sand at every little halt
only to revive and maintain
enough reserve strength to carry
their riders home after the fight.
All this was more remarkable
in view of the heat. As Sir
Harry Gullett points out in his
“Light Horse” volume of the
War History, horses were apt to
refuse food in the desert after a
few hours without water. It is
no wonder that Gullett could
write with truth;
Their capacity to suffer and con-
tinue working, as disclosed upon
Sinai, was unsuspected by even their
Australian riders.
Men who were there re-
member, too, the break-through
march towards Jemmameh, dur-
ing which the animals of Chay-
tor’s two brigades, with very few
exceptions, went waterless for
50 hours, all the time hard-
ridden under 20-stone loads, by
men who had been three nights
without sleep, and who yet
when small water rations were
served to them, would as often
as not pour a part of their issue
out of their bottles into hand
or tin-plate to wet the muzzles
of their mounts.
Es Salt and 1 Jordan
They remember the searchings
in the tortuous wadis at Talat ed
Dumm on the way to Amman
for odd plants of wild barley to
give their poor, hungry, over-
ridden beasts a taste of green
feed,, in the days before bitter
cold which preceded the intense
heat in which the acme of
suffering, human and animal,
was reached in Hodgson’s
brigades through five sleepless
nights, and the bitter disappoint-
ments of the retreat following
L. C. Wilson’s smash drive into
Es Salt:
As in the previous retreat from
Gilead, extreme suffering was inflicted
upon the wounded During the
afternoon every man who could sit
on his horse was mounted and sent
down the track. “I feel a bit shaky,”
said one who had to be helped back
into the saddle, “but my old horse
will carry me through.” Blood was
dripping from bandages to his head
as he rode off, smiling and confi-
dent ... •
Finally, they remember the
swelter of the Jordan Valley, the
flies, the mosquitoes, the summer
heat of 1918, sand-fly fever, the
spiders and the scorpions.
“They Did Not Come Home”
But it was none of these
things, nor the advance on
Damascus, nor the pneumonic-
influenza, nor the malaria, that
the lighthorseman of the Desert
Corps best remembered. His
keenest pang came from his en-
forced parting with his horse.
As the Sydney memorial de-
clares, these gallant and
well-remembered animals, still
mourned by their erstwhile
riders, “suffered wounds, thirst,
hunger and weariness almost
beyond endurance, but they
never failed.” They did not
come home.
With the end of World War I
the history of the Australian
war-horse came virtually to an
* end. The export of Walers to
India, which had reached its
peak in the war years, had fallen
by more than half, and con-
tinued to fall as the proud old
regiments. Hussars (the 12th was
the first to go armored in 1930),
Lancers, Skinner’s Horse, Hod-
son’s Horse, went into their twi-
light, some to be resurrected
on wheels, or, like the N. S.
Wales Lancers, as machine-gun
battalions.
As early as 1921 the gallant
and equable Chauvel, who was
to live to remember, in an age
swiftly becoming horseless, the
days when he commanded the
greatest equine force in British
history, reported that only
3 per cent, of Australian horses
were up to cavalry or artillery
standards, and that the breeding
of light cavalry horses had
reached a dangerously low ebb.
Those, led by the doughty
J. D. Richardson, erstwhile
Commander of the 7th Regi-
ment, A.L.H., who gathered
round Lady Chauvel at the
unveiling of the little Sydney
memorial in 1950, belonged
to a period and an experience
as remote as the dodo from the
present generation of soldiers.
Horses in Australia have
dwindled by half since 1922.
There are now only as many in
the Commonwealth as there
were in 1880, when the human
population was a third of the
present one.
Even the great droving outfits
are threatened with the extinc-
tion by air-carriage of beef. Only
in Asia does the horse survive
as an engine of war.
It seems that more than a
monument to Light Horse is
needed. Gratitude, particularly
in Australia, calls for a memorial
to the horse tribe as a whole,
seeing that it has ceased to be a
much-loved part of the daily life
of the people, to most of whom
it represents now only a vague
phenomenon on which a shilling
can be placed illegally over a
telephone on a Saturday morn-
ing.


One of the most Important
Documents you
will ever sign . . •
n
0
J
YOUR WILL is a document that vitally affects the
welfare of your dependants. It should be competently
drawn; it should be promptly revised whenever
necessary; and it should appoint an efficient Executor
and Trustee for your Estate. In this regard, a wise
choice is to appoint the Permanent Trustee Company
. . . specialists in Trust and Estate management since
1887, with over £1,000,000 of uncalled capital and assets
as your guarantee of security.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
Permanent
Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O'Connell St., Sydney
BOARD OF DIRECTORS;
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, 0.8.E.,V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, Of -*'-’
MRChM., F.R-A.C.J.
J. R Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
Manager: N. E. Shaw.
Assistant Manager.
C. N. P. Whittle.
Sub Manager: S. V. White.
Secretary: F. R. Garland.
Pastoral Inspector:
Hugh Stewart.
PT..J-'*
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
PEACE THROUGH STRENGTH.
As London “Observer” noted,
the historic importance of the
recent London conferences
among the Atlantic partners
was scarcely reflected in most
Press reports, which “often had
a half-bored, half-puzzled air”:
“Yet the decisions reached
represent the greatest achieve-
ment of constructive interna-
tional diplomacy of this cen-
tury.”
Practically, the decisions mean
positive steps taken to produce
close military and other unity as
ready backing for the key clause
of the Atlantic Pact, signed by
the 12 parties at Washington in
April last year ; the clause read-
ing: “The parties agree that an
armed attack against one or
more of them in Europe or
North America shall be con-
sidered as an attack against
them all.”
The 12 are: United States,
Canada, Britain, France, Bel-
gium, the Netherlands, Luxem-
bourg, Denmark, Norway, Por-
tugal, Italy and Iceland. What
they are now setting out jointly
to do is to “build a system of
defence.... capable of with-
standing any external threat
directed against any of them.”
On this decision an “Observer”
writer commented:
“It is impossible to overrate
its importance. It commits
America, Canada and Britain
no longer only to the rescue of
Europe but to the defence of
Europe.”
Decision, however, does not,
as hitherto, stop at involvement,
implied or avowed. By a step
representing “an even bolder
break with the past,” the de-
signed defence is to be based on
the progressive creation of
“balanced collective forces.”
The two major decisions on that
were made to overcome the
present —and, in fact, hitherto
traditional —arrangement of so
many partners or allies with
their individual, scattered and
quite separate defence establish-
ments. The nature of the break
from the past is thus evident
enough; a break not merely
from recent war-time arrange-
ments but from long centuries of
normal peace-time preparedness
of nations. The Ministers (1) set
up a permanent 12-nation
Strategy Board to direct the
entire defence programme; (2)
proposed a single international
military force of maximum
power that would, in effect,
abolish the old concept of
individually integrated national
defence forces.
That (as interpreted by the
“Observer” writer) “implies
nothing less than that there will
one day no longer be American,
British, French and other armed
forces, but only one Atlantic
Army, Navy and Air Force.
Obviously, this cannot be
achieved at a stroke. [The
various Governments, for one
thing, have yet to accept it, and
Services’ opposition in some or
all of the various countries is
certain to be strong.] But from
this day on, we and all other
member nations of the Atlantic
Community will have to start
recasting our defence policy and
subordinating the completeness
and balance of our national
defence establishments to mak-
ing the unified defence system
of the West balanced, complete,
and effective as a whole.
“This, also, is a tremendous
decision, and it is to be carried
out at once. The new permanent
Council which has been set up
for its implementation has been
expressly briefed to produce
‘tangible results’ before the next
WANTED
MAN TO* CO-ORDINATE
THE MILITARY. INDUSTRIAL
& MORAL TORCES OF THE
AVLST -
—London “Daily Mail ."
THE MAN WHO ISN’T THERE.
meeting of the Ministers in
September.”
The new Strategy Board (or
Council) is to be made up of
deputies of the Foreign Minis-
ters, and will function as a per-
manent body based in London,
Its job will be to “speed up the
whole tempo” of the Atlantic
countries’ defence contributions,
r will divide up the cost: one
D f the main aims is to produce
an adequate defence without
crippling participating countries
economically, as some 1 of them,
at least, certainly would be
crippled if they sought to make
their own separate defences
adequate—that is, of course,
secure against the Russian threat. •
On this, the “New York Times”
has pointed out in a recent sur-
vey:—
“In men and arms, the
strengths of the Atlantic com-
munity and the Russian bloc
look fairly evenly balanced. For
instance, the Russian bloc (ex-
eluding China) maintains armies
of about 3,718,000 men, against
2,008,000 for the Atlaptic
Powers, [lt should be said that,
according to figures most
generally accepted, the total
given for the Russian bloc is
very conservative.] On the other
hand, the Atlantic group is vastly
superior in naval power and is
stronger in numbers of aircraft
and in aviation skills. The U.S.
is believed to be ahead of Russia
in the development of atomic
arms. The Atlantic Powers are
also richer in industrial re-
sources ; their steel output of
108 million tons yearly alone is
four times that of the Russian
group.
“But strategically the Atlantic
Powers operate under two heavy
disadvantages. First, their
strength is scattered —a large
part of it, militarily, industrially
and financially, is in the U.S.,
3000 miles from Europe. Second,
the military systems of the
Atlantic Powers are organised
basically on an individual basis ;
there are, for instance, eleven
separate armies (Iceland has no
armed forces), as well as sepa-
rate naval and air forces of
varying types and strengths. The
cost of maintaining these sepa-
rate forces is much greater than
that of a single defence establish-
ment like Russia’s.”
It is to overcome those dis-
advantages—in time!—that the
Atlantic Council’s Foreign
Ministers agreed to the radical
new approach, collective defence
in a very full sense of the term:
“The idea is that the traditional
system of each country’s main-
taining a balanced individual
force of army, navy and air
arms is an expensive luxury
which, in a collective-security
group, can only mean wasteful
overlapping and duplication,
Instead, it is thought, the
Atlantic countries should agree
on a ‘division of function’ under
which each country would
undertake the primary defence
task most suited to it and refrain
from undertaking defence tasks
that can be better done by other
members.”
Or, as a London correspondent
of “New York Times” put it;
“Western Europe has accepted
the United States thesis that
security must have equal priority
with economic recovery. It has
acknowledged that all must bear
a fair share of the burden of
rearming. And the Western
nations have accepted the prin-
ciple that they can become
strong most economically and
efficiently by building their
forces with the view to their
being used jointly against a
common enemy.”
On the preparations of the
“common enemy” that is being
guarded against, a correspondent
of N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
declares that, though the esti-
mate that the Soviets are spend-
ing 20 per cent, of their national
income on strictly military
equipment is no better than a
guess, it “is more likely to be
too low than too high.” On the
other hand, “The Atlantic coun-
tries have been spending some-
thing like 5 per cent, of their
national incomes, on the average,
for defence.” Incidentally, a
London correspondent of the
same N.Y. paper concludes that.
while the aim is general integra-
tion, and while no actual men-
tion was made of special spheres
of influence for the leading
Western Powers, actually such
spheres will remain, on the fol-
lowing lines: Britain dominant
in the Middle East; France and
Britaip in South-East Asia;
America on the Continent (in-
eluding Greece and Turkey) and
in Persia,
With its customary acuteness,
London “Economist” emphasises
one essential point that “needs
daily reiteration”; that “the
policy to which the Western
Powers are committed is not one
that aims at fighting the Russian
Communists and destroying their
regime'; it is aimed at prevent-
ing such a war from breaking
out and at reaching a modus
vivendi with the Soviets. Its
object is peace, not war ; agree-
ment, not conquest.... Not only
is it a policy of avoiding war,
its authors believe it to be the
only policy that has any chance
of avoiding war n
words and Soviet
the conviction that ?? breecj
resistance and obvious firni
will prevent the
croachments of Sovfet tm en '
ism but the record a s ? erial-
reason to believe tha °if 8 T
resistance and the f the
choice between*peace°^ 0 f 1
ever temperature--offere/ h'
Russians and a cold Wa ?off the
by the United States. The ch?
is between two kinds of n? lce
through stag* P o e „ a “r
el a°n^c a “ir
sS Snit SHP
mmds and darken counsel h!
time the Western LI, 8
dropped the term
their political vocabulary
used instead a phrase n d
through strength is
any other-that genuinely ef
presses their firm but IJI
purposes.” pacitlc
Wanted, a Leader!
London “Time and Tide”
dips the nib in a little acid and
writes of Mr. Atlee:-
“The Prime Minister-the
very thought is like a knell' Mr
Attlee appears to have hitherto
been restrained from taking any
major initiative in international
affairs by what no doubt is an
all too well-justified conscious-
ness of his own inadequacy, it
is a consciousness which is
shared by both sides of the
House. Everyone is aware of
it ; yet scarcely anyone ad-
mits it, because almost every-
one is rather fond of Mr.
Attlee and the British public is
not apt to derive satisfaction
from pitting a particularly in-
offensiye mouse against an out-
size and by no means over-
scrupulous bear.
“Because we cannot produce
an official champion of a calibre
sufficient to stand up to the
Kremlin heavyweight there is a
serious danger that we may shy
away from the necessary top-
level showdown with Moscow
and may drift into a policy of
half - measures, half - heartedly
undertaken, a policy that will
neither regain Germany for
Europe and Christendom nor
yet deter Russia from further
imperialist expansion.
“The situation calls for a
leader of vision and initiative. If
Mr. Attlee is not adequate to his
position he should make way for
one who is.”
Asian War Danger.
Practically without exception
every correspondent who has
lately been viewing the Asian
turmoil at first hand has done
his utmost to try to disturb
complacency regarding the possi-
bility of war breaking out from
that quarter.
One of the most downright
has been the London Daily
Mail” veteran correspondent O.
Ward Price, who has long
specialised in wars and signs o


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
61 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
From schooldays to adult
career you are right for life
with a “Swan” fountain pen.
Writing is effortless with
the handsome, “precision-
built “Swan.” The hard-
wearing gold nib .preserves
the distinctive character of
your hand. For personal
use or presentation there
is no finer pen you are
right for life with a “Swan.”
SWAN
PENS
37/3 to 88/9 from all
jewellers, stationers
and stores.
MABIE, TODD & CO.
<»UST.) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
5/120
“HANDY hints for the
akm.”—A thousand ways of ixn-
provjng yields. Published by “The
Bulletm.” Price I]-,
fiu
ttttiwtn]
FROM THE WIND
for country homes
with a
QUIRK'S
WIND-DRIVEN
LIGHTING PLANT
V
h this set v/iii
Operating in *£
provide economical as a comple e „gine-
SSUSf-x wiH ampW
QUIRK'S «■»<>'»' 3 P ' a so „r 110 »»»>■«;;. .Variance.
Machine..
end for FREE
M A A
QUIRK'S VICTORY LIGHT CO.
229 CASTLEREAGH ST.. SYDNEY
’PHONE: M 3114
A
BANK
OF
AUSTRALASIA
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND
NEW ZEALAND AND IN LONDON
©FFERS the services of its Travel Departments with all
facilities for Travellers in Australia and abroad. The
Overseas Departments will also assist you with their ex~
perience on all aspects of overseas trade introductions and
enquiries, and all foreign exchange matters. Enquiries
will be welcomed at any Branch of the Bank.
AGENTS 6 CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
EST.
i
m
/835
1833
wars. Reporting recently from
South-east Asia, he commented:
“Anyone who was in touch
with the European situation of
1938-39 as it drifted steadily to
war must see as a grim parallel
the position now developing in
South-east Asia. Communism
today, like Nazism 12 years
ago, is on the move, confronted
only by hesitating and divided
resistance.”
Giving instances of the many
signs marking the advancing
tide, he described these as “pre-
liminary gestures foreshadowing
Communist military attack —in-
vasion being preceded by infil-
tration” ;
“But while the danger grows
more threatening, the attention
of the Western Governments
continues to be concentrated on
Germany. The front-door is
guarded, whereas it is against
the back-door in Eastern Asia
that the next push is likely to be
made.”
If the one remaining post,
Formosa, is taken the Chinese
Communists and their Russian
“technical advisers” will “find
themselves with a large and vic-
torious army at their disposition.
Such armies, if they are not kept
employed, become dangerous to
their own commanders. More-
over, the conquering Communist
forces in southern China find
themselves in a famine-stricken
area. Their presence increases
the misery of the civilians upon
whom they are quartered. Yet
just across the border to the
south of them is the richest rice-
growing area in the world,
packed with food of which much
cannot be shipped out owing to
disturbed political conditions.”
That tempting prize is guarded
precariously; “In Indo-China
by French forces largely made
up of Foreign Legionaries and
Moroccans, occupying a coun-
try in which they are disliked as
intruders; in Siam by five divi-
sions of troops without modern
equipment; in Burma by a
regime that still has several civil
wars on its hands.”
In Ward Price’s view, “The
optimists who maintain that the
Chinese Communist Government
will have too much internal
trouble to undertake aggression
outside its own frontiers should
ask themselves what better cure
there would be for domestic
discontent than to make avail-
able the rich resources of the
small, weak States on China’s
southern border.”
Flence, he considers, “That
the Communists will penetrate
South-east Asia either by infil-
tration or invasion is as inevitable
as that water will run downhill,”
the only thing likely to delay
them being the possibility of
provoking a major war, for
which Russia may not yet be
ready. He has doubts as to that,
however; more likely “As
Hitler got away with Austria
and Czechoslovakia because the
Powers that opposed his policy
of aggression were not prepared
to resist it by force, so Mao
Tse-tung may overrun China’s
small neighbors to the south.”
In their way the lately much-
publicised “economic measures”
are well enough, “But it would
take a generation to bring these
remedies into operation, and the
Communist peril is imminent.”
The King’s Title.
Referring in a London “Sun-
day Times” letter to “the ques-
tion of altering the Royal Style
and Titles, an operation which
requires, by constitutional con-
vention, the assent of the Par-
liaments of all members of the
Commonwealth,” Oxford’s
Gladstone Professor of Govern-
ment, K. C. Wheare, admits that
the present Title of the King—
“ George VI, by- the grace of
God, of Great Britain, Ireland
and the British Dominions be-
yond the Seas King, Defender
of the Faith” —is not wholly
satisfactory.
Pointing out that the word
“Dominions” in the title does
not, as is often supposed, refer
to the self-governing members of
the Commonwealth overseas, but
is used in the old sense of the
territories or possessions of the
King, whether self-governing or
non-self-governing, he com-
ments ;
“But even if ‘Dominions’ were
used in the modern sense, it is
a word which has fallen out of
favor with some members of the
Commonwealth, notably Canada,
South Africa and India. Finally,
the use of the geographical ex-
pression ‘lreland’ is not quite
compatible with the existence of
the Irish Republic.
“It is not easy, however, to
suggest acceptable amendments.
Not all members of the Com-
monwealth want a change, if
certain members want their
names inserted in the title, is it
not invidious for others to be
left out? What about India,
which recognises the King as
Head of the Commonwealth but
not as King of India? Is it wise
to insert the phrase ‘Head of
the Commonwealth,’ which is
not a legal expression, into a
title which is to be given legal
authority? And would not a
title which consisted mainly of
a recital of a list of names be a
little unimpressive?
“Nonetheless, if any member
of the Commonwealth feels
really dissatisfied with the title
as it stands, that is a good reason
for making a change. It may
well prove to be best for the
King to have a separate and dis-
tinctive title in respect of each
member of the Commonwealth,
to be determined by that
member, and to have in addition
a common title, say ‘Head of
the Commonwealth of Nations,’
this common title to be deter-
mined and changed only with
the assent of the Parliaments of
all the members.
“In this way the King’s two
capacities of Head of the Com-
monwealth and of Head of
certain member-States of the
Commonwealth could be dis-
tinguished. Changes in the
membership of the Common-
wealth or the conversion of
kingdoms into republics in the
Commonwealth would not in-
volve amendments to the
common title but only in the
individual titles.”
Dragnet Digest.
TJie First Socialist. —Discovery by
a “Yorks Hire Post” correspondent;
“Christopher Columbus was the first
Socialist. He set off without knowing
where he was going. When he got
there he didn’t know where he was.
And, anyway, he went at somebody
else’s expense.”
* * * *
Diplomatic Illness. —As reported in
the “Observer,” a London doctor
“was hurriedly summoned to the
Soviet Embassy to see a sick member
of the staff. He examined the man,
who was in great pain, and recom-
mended an immediate operation.
|Very well,’ said the Russian diplomat
in charge, ‘we will return him to
Russia for the operation.’ Appar-
ently, no Soviet official who has
handled confidential information may
be subjected to anaesthetic while
abroad.”
* * * *
Atlantic Union. Canadian Sec-
retary for External Affairs Lester
Pearson, announcing Canada’s official
endorsement of the idea of a “North
Atlantic alliance”: “In working out
these problems successfully we can,
I think, use our North Atlantic Pact.
It may provide the foundation for a
great co-operative economic common-
wealth of the Western world which
one day may become a political com-
monwealth. You may say this is
unrealistic nonsense, but I suggest
that in this jet-propelled, atomic age
no plan less than this will be
adequate.”
* * * *
University Corns. —Referring in his
recent House of Lords speech to the
growing danger of Communism in
Britain, Lord Vansittart stated that
an earlier speech of his in the same
House had evidently got under the
skin of one of the tribe in Birming-
ham University, Professor George
Thomas,, who had immediately written
this letter to the “New Statesman”:
“As a member of the executive com-
mittee of the Communist party let
me point out that there are Com-
munists, of whom I am proud to be
one, in all our [Britain’s] universities,
and that their numbers are steadily
growing.” Lord Vansittart said he
thanked “Birmingham University and
the ‘New Statesman’ for wading in
with this timely information.”
* * * *
Backward South Asia.—Comment-
ing on the recent in
Sydney, “Manchester Guardian” notes
that South Asia comprises one-sixth
of the population of the world, and
its standards of living are the lowest
in the world, and even thosp stan-
dards are falling: “This poverty is
due to the inefficiency of Asian agri-
culture. Consider one or two facts.
In all India only 6 per cent, of the
rice land is cultivated with improved
seed. If Indian farmers used the
same fertilisers and up-to-date
methods as Japanese farmers, the
irrigated area of India—so million
acres, about one-fifth of the total
cultivated land —could sustain nearly
three-quarters of the total population
of the country. India could become
a land with a huge agricultural sur-
plus. If there should be only a
moderate increase in the output of
South Asia, the economic prospects
of all the rest of the world would be
changed.”


£keo|
• • e
tits
a vbuMi
fd
W- 'O'
\
\
■//A
I
TOOTH'S SHEAF STOUT
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH i CO. LIMITED
85.147.16
LOOK YOUR BEST!
C •• .>
IS
■'
.o
StYXJ
o #l' TV
IPS
vy
Everywhere you hear men praising
the superb quality, style and smart
appearance of Akubra Hats.
Made from the finest of pure fur,
your Akubra retains its “New Look’
and colour throughout its long, nil
weather life.
F ( or comfort, style and quality, wear
Akubra —the choice of all well-
dressed men.
AKUBRA
jfiafa c^QmM/
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“He asked his cigareae; ‘How
about a mouthful of tea? I’m certain
both of us could do with it.’ ”
—Short story in weekly paper.
Conversation was such a fag.
“Some girdles leave you beautiful
but breathless.” — Woman’s paper.
And make you feel nearly all
in.
4* •J 1 4*
“The Canon added that, as a young
man, he had found stories about
'Noah getting drunk were embarras-
sing.” —Sydney ‘‘Sunday Sun.”
Still, Noah was on the water
for a long while.
■‘Doctors say people with ulcers
have the highest marriage-rate and
the lowest divorce-rate.”
They can’t stomach divorce-
proceedings.
+ 4*
“He, incidentally, was plainer than
I, with a nose like- a tap.”
—Sydney “D-T.”
There was something of the
drip about him.
4* 4* 4*
“I can’t get rid of m> husband.
He runs around with a married
woman, and even goes to church
with her on Sunday.”
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph. ’
Oh, pew!
“The room was tensely quite except
for the purr of the burning coal.’’
—Short story in “New Idea.”
Quiet extraordinary, in fact.
“For months private detectives m
Britain have been shadowing other
private detectives.” —Sunday paper.
Following in their footsteps,
eh?
•J..
“Your waist, hips and tummy are
smoothed to slender lines in our
fraction fittings.”— Advt.
And no vulgar fractions,
either.
4* 4* *J* . „
“Wanted, girls to learn spotting.
— “S. M. Herald.”
Must be fast and willing
workers.
Ironical.
“The swimsuit, designed by an
engineer, is constructed ‘on the canti-
lever principle.’ The secret is in the
cut, as well as the fabric. ‘The pat-
tern measurements and the contra-
stretch panels are calculated a
slide-rule to the third decimal-point.
— “S. M. Herald."
Her outlines were buttressed
with uplift,
Her pylons were shapely and
slim,
The sweep of her curves — canti-
levered —
Though ample, was nonethe-
less trim.
To give added strength to the
structure
Small rivets, not stitches, were
used; ,
By oxy-acetylene welding
The skirt and the pantees were
fused.
Alas, for the fine calculations
To decimal-point nought-
nought-one.
The stresses and strains of a
dumper
Caused something to come all
undone!
LUMLA.
A Dim View.
“All it takes to make a plain
woman beautiful is a little imagina-
man’s.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
You couldn’t call my love a
rose
Unless perhaps you saw the
blpom
That makes her shiny bulbous
nose
A beacon-light amid the
gloom.
Nor could you praise her wiry
hair.
Less fit for poetry than quips.
Or feel the pangs of wild despair
If exiled from her fleshy lips.
And yet to me she represents
The optimum in womankind.
My high ideal to all intents
Though you may say that love
is blind.
For when I take her little hand
Beneath the moon so chaste
and white
You readily will understand
I see her in another light.
D.H.E.
Some Reliable Recipes.
“Labor” Election Tripe: Take
as many wild promises as can
be thought up, and add figures
on the housing situation which
have previously been three-parts
cooked. Into this mix equal
quantities of past performance
from which all truth has been
carefully sifted and full employ-
ment. Stir in plenty of vitupera-
tion and a pinch of the other
party’s best policy points.
Finally add 15-year-old Press
photo of Fearless and Honest
Leader. Keep simmering. Big
helpings of salt are necessary to
get this tripe down.
Road Traffic Hash : To Satur-
day-afternoon football crowd
add homegoing punters and
casual travellers. With these mix
inadequate number of buses, a
few 40-year-old trams and thou-
sands of private cars. Stall one
ancient tram and bring all home-
goers to the boil. Skim lightly
with shortage of traffic police
before stirring in potholes and
streets of buggy-era width.
Serve with Master Plan flummery
and garnish with future super-
highways, “green belts” and
other delectable trimmings.
Senate Loaf: Easily-made
dough is the basis of this recipe.
Into it stir stertorous snores, half
a quorum, a blank business-
paper and a yeast made of the
best apathy. Deadline dates
supplied by the House of Repre-
sentatives may be added, though
no notice need be taken of them.
The mess will rise at every
opportunity, resulting in a really
perfect loaf.
Onus Unsavories: For tough-
ness these are very hard to beat.
Recipe is copyright to the
Federal “Labor” Caucus. Chief
ingredient of the filling is Fear
of Red Unions. This is whipped
up with the best “Tribune” sauce
and A.C.T.U. pastiness, the mix-
ture topped off with well-
shredded principle's. These un-
savories have to be gulped down
while holding the nose.
Inflation Stew: Start with
equal quantities of moderate
wages and moderate prices. Add
first a small wage-rise, followed
quickly by a slightly larger price-
rise. Stir in quota of strikes, a
40-hour week and a fall in pro-
duction. When mixture starts
to rise visibly add another wage-
rise, another price-rise, then thin
out with a large handful of
paper , currency. Add another
wage-rise, another price-rise, a
still shorter working week, a few
more strikes, a large drop in
production, some increased
absenteeism and a pinch of in-
dolence. As mixture keeps over-
flowing one bowl it will have to
be transferred to bigger one.
Famous “Labor” chef who
evolved this recipe boasts that,
though it won’t fatten, it fills—
with wind.
Housing Commission Pickle :
Take a large bundle of red-
tape, some planned shortages,
14 inspectors to every house,
some dithered’directors, crippling
overhead costs and a lot of
bungling. Stir in plenty of de-
layed decisions, some plans as
“Have you these in half-sizes?”
alike as sausages, and some cut-
up estates which have been
forcibly acquired at a fraction
of their real value. Make luke-
warm and leave for a year or
two to cool.
Taxation Mock Cream : Into
a raw taxation return put some
rebatable items. Strain through
pay-as-you-go deductions, bring
gradually to blood-heat and
allow several months to set.
cover the difference h que to
are a
interjections, and a numb^ 6
election eggs. Mix with Join of '
A feature of this sponge k k B '
11 never rises—when a p a i at
passenger is swinging on F Yng
by strap. g S ° n a near-
Parliamentary Pensions
This is the most expensive red™
extant, costing the taxS
eight pounds a week with every
pi it gives him. To three M
Parliamentary terms add abou
30 weeks a year holiday and a
liberal sprinkling of emohime*
and perks. It may be allowed
to ferment without harm
Original makers claim this jam
will last up to 50 years a
beautiful preserve may be made
from this if some rigged pt
selection ballots are added.
BO.
Ironclad Model.
An English sailor, arrested for
drunken driving in a stolen car told
the magistrate he had mistaken it
for a battleship.”
My sympathy goes out to him
Who, yielding to a human whim,
Took such advantage of his leave
As led the coppers to believe
That he wav quite intoxicated;
For surely it could be debated
That anyone might take a cruise
In something well equipped with
screws
And find it difficult to know
A mast set up for radio
From those you’ll find on ships
at sea.
And Jack, no doubt, could claim
that he
Felt right in, sticking to his guns
Like thousands of old England’s
sons
Come hell, high-water, storm or
cop —
When seated ’neath a turret-top.
BERT.


rk
CHAMPIONS
MN ON
CMI
TRADE'
MARK
WOffiDS FAVOURITE
FAQTORIE.S: FELTHAM, ENG.;
TOLEDO, 0.5. A.; WINDSOR, CAN.,
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
10 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the
orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27f), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
C 7
(3
"T-
-*
h
jW
*
¥
n
■
y
m
In
tins of 20
3/
When the perfection of the setting
calls for something of
real character and unquestionable
distinction , you will find
the appropriate cigarette hears
the name of Benson & Hedges ,
Old Bond Street , London —in
keeping with the occasion
when only the best will do.
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
MIS MAJESTY THE KING
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Benson Li Hedges
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Bulletin’s most inveterate
nunter has decided to give the game
?way until such times as normal con-
siderations of weight, distance and
general form are no longer further
complicated by the necessity of con-
templating which animal is likely to
do best on an ebb tide.
As inhabitants of the town are
painfully aware, and other readers
have doubtless gathered from perusal
of the daily Press, other than the
weather-forecast section, Sydney dur-
ing last week collected what would
normally represent a couple of
months’ quota of ram. The final
day of the A.J.C. Winter Meeting,
originally set down for the Monday
holiday of last week, was postponed
first to Wednesday last, then to
Saturday, and then, with the weather
showing no sign of abating at the
weekend, to next Saturday. The
meeting which was down for next
Saturday has been tentatively post-
poned to the following Wednesday.
* * * =l= *
Sydney visitors have a tradition of
waxing facetious on the slenderest
provocation regarding Melbourne
weather, but while their northern con-
freres huddled, flood-bound, indoors
on Saturday, Melbourne racegoers
were able to proceed for business as
usual at Caulfield, with the weather
perfectly fine, albeit a trifle on the
cool side.
Marked by a number of bad falls
in recent weeks, steeplechasing has
been much in the news, but on Satur-
day it was the hurdles that brought
’em to grief. The eight starters in
the Wanda Steeple all got round
safely, but the Toolambool Hurdle
saw four of the 13 runners fail to
complete the course.
Although he was good enough last
year to run second in the Grand
National and win the Australian
Hurdle, Elastin was allowed to start
at 40 to 1 in Saturday’s Toolambool
Hurdle. His recent form had not
been good, and it was scarcely en-
couraging to know that his trainer
on Saturday requested the Club’s
veterinary surgeon to examine the
gelding and decide if he was fit to
start. The vet. pronounced Elastin
fit, which he amply proved to be.
The grey Our Land and Niblik,
both jumping in dashing style, shared
the pacemaking until Niblik, at the
half-mile, took one a trifle too dash-
ingly. Left then in front, and with
a very handy lead, Our Land
appeared to have an excellent chance,
and he was going great guns until
he made a poor jump at the last
fence. The favorite, Tuckout, then
raced up quickly to collar the grey,
and looked, in his turn, well set for
victory, but Elastin staged a rattliijg
run over the final furlong to get up
and win by one and a quarter lengths
from the favorite, with Our Land
holding on fairly for third money.
The Wanda Steeple saw Benarca
(R. Hall) return to the winning list
after his slight lapse at Caulfield a
couple of weeks previously. On that
occasion he had run fourth, after
putting up a string of three succes-
sive wins. On Saturday Benarca
carried 11.9, won by six lengths from
the outsider Lucky Sign (9.3) and
gave the impression that he could
as easily have doubled the margin.
The much-fancied Bay David ap-
peared to break down, and finished
third, two and a half lengths behind
Lucky Sign; the remainder were
barely within sight. Benarca may
stop a few pounds penalty for Satur-
day’s win, but even with some addi-
tion to his original 11.6 he must be
conceded a great chance in the Grand
National.
A number of potential candidates
for the Doomben Ten Thousand con-
tested the 6-furlongs Rosny Plate,
the result of which, with the Sydney
galloper Riptide winning comfortably
from the South Australians Ivers and
Royal Pharos, was something of a
blow for connections of several of
the Melbourne sprinters.
A disappointment in Sydney since
his brilliantly-promising two-year-old
and early three-year-old days, Riptide
was sent to Melbourne to see if a
change of conditions could effect a
change of luck. Evidently the Mid-
stream four-year-old is much better
suited by Melbourne conditions. In
two previous starts he had been only
narrowly beaten, and on Saturday
he made no mistake about the job.
One of the leaders all the way, Rip-
tide took charge at the turn and ran
on strongly to defeat Ivers by more
than a length. If Riptide is really
back to his best form he is certainly
one to follow, and a furlong or so
further than Saturday’s journey should
not trouble him.
A tip-top staying performance
was turned in by the three-year-old
St. Magnus colt Patron (W. William-
son) in winning the Richmond Handi-
cap (12f.), though, by the same token,
a majority of those who had backed
the favorite would willingly have sold
their briefs at a big discount while
waiting for the numbers to go up.
The 14-to-l chance Milford looked
to have won quite clearly, but the
camera showed it as Patron by a
half-head, with Potentate third.
* * * *
In England last week the racing
spotlight shifted from the equine
glamor of the three-year-old classics
at Epsom to the glamor of another
sort, which is always part and parcel
of Royal Ascot. Ascot has had a
close association with Royalty from
its very beginning as a racecourse.
Ascot was “discovered” by Queen
Anne, who was *so keen a horse-
woman that it is recorded: “When
unable to ride, her Majesty continued
to see what she could of the hunt by
following in a chaise.”
While following the hounds in the
vicinity of Ascot in the summer of
1711, Queen Anne was struck by the
possibilities of Ascot Heath for
development as a racecourse, and she
at once ordered a course to be pre-
pared there to replace the one at
Datchet Meads, which had previously
been the Royal course. The first
meeting was held at Ascot on Satur-
day, August 11, 1711. The prize was
a plate of £5O, competed in three
heats, as was then the custom. There
was a field of seven, each carrying
12st. The whole show was so suc-
cessful that another meeting was
promptly arranged for the Monday,
this time with a prize of a £lOO
plate. • Since then Ascot has con-
tinuously enjoyed Royal patronage,
and today the Royal meeting at
Ascot, with its color and pageantry,
splendid racing and a splendid course
to boot, offers one of the finest spec-
tacles in the racing world.
A feature of this year’s Ascot was
the continued success of the Aus-
tralian riders, who must be becoming
a thorough pain in the neck to their
English confreres. Particularly out-
standing was the continued amazing
luck of Rae Johnstone in important
races. With the One Thousand
Guineas, Oaks and English Derby
already up his sleeve, Rae returned
to Ascot to bag the Ascot Stakes on
Honorable 11. Run over 2i miles,
the Ascot Stakes is one of the prin-
cipal staying tests in the English
. racing calendar. Another Australian
rider, Victorian Arthur Breasley, just
missed out in the Stakes, finishing
second on Strathspey, but Breasley’s
turn came the following day, when
he won the Royal Hunt Cup on the
Hyperion horse Hyperbole. Hyper-
bole started at tens, and scored by a
head from the 100-to-30 favorite Wat
Tyler. Yet another victory was
notched up for the Australian riders
when Tommy Burns won the Queen
Anne Stakes on the Duchess of Nor-
folk’s Garrick, who started at 20 to 1
and scored easily from the Irish One
Thousand Guineas winner Princess
Trudy.
Rae Johnstone, incidentally, has a
great chance of repeating his unique
effort of a couple of years back, when
he won the English, French and Irish
Derbies in the one season. John-
stone has two legs in this time, having
won the French Derby last week on
Marcel Boussac’s colt Scratch. It
must have been quite some race, in
the best French traditions. Scratch
scored by a short head from Tan-
tieme. Leastwise, that was the judge’s
decision. The crowd differed, and
expressed their opinion as only a
French crowd can. So did the rider
of Tantieme, but his ardor was
dampened with a fine of £25 “for
arguing with the judges.”
* * * *
Accustomed though they should
be to playing on heavy grounds the
English Rugby League tourists must
have been rocked to the marrow by
the sight the Sydney Cricket Ground
presented on Monday last week when
the visitors played their first Test
v. Australia. Certainly the condi-
tions were so bad that a decision
either way could scarcely have been
accepted as a true indication of rela-
tive merit. As it was, the Englishmen
won, 6-4.
In the Sydney game the dirt was
pretty much confined to the liquid
variety that covered the -field a foot
or so deep, but Saturday’s Brisbane
match, England v. Queensland, saw
a nasty outbreak of the dirt of
another color, which, unfortunately,
consistently mars Rugby League.
There was dirty play aplenty all the
way through. The Englishmen seemed
justified in being irritated by many
of the referee’s incomprehensible
rulings, and as soon as the final bell
rang, with the Queenslanders ahead
15-14, both sides cut loose in an
all-in.
* * * *
Most Sydney sport was completely
washed out last Saturday, but the
“muddied oafs” resolved to live up
to their title. The Rugby Union
competition round was played, but
in practically hopeless conditions; it
was no rare sight to see a couple
of players gently leading a blinded
team-mate to the nearest relatively
clean puddle for an eye-wash.
University returned to the winning
list with a 14-3 victory over East-
wood. University has been a disap-
pointing side this year. On paper it
looks the strongest team in the com-
petition, yet it has won comparatively
few matches, and has given several
“I think I've got the game by the throat now, old chap."
woefully indifferent displays. Its
defeats have been attributed to a weak
pack of forwards, but closer examina-
tion will show that the forwards,
while they have not been a match-
winning combination, are a handy
pack, and have not let the side down.
They have never failed to give their
backs a reasonable share of the ball
—sufficient for a near-international
backline to establish superiority and
score tries. It is the efforts of the
backs that have not been up to
expectations; while they have shown
bursts of individual brilliance their
movements have lacked co-ordination
and rhythm.
This, of course, may be attributable
to the frequent chopping and chang-
ing brought about by injuries and
the absence of players away with
touring teams,, and we may now see
them settling down to a smooth com-
bination. On Saturday they scored
a nice backline try when, early in the
match, before it became impossible
to handle the ball, they caught the
Eastwood backs out of position and
Garner was sent over in the corner
after Solomon made the break. In
other matches Wests beat Drum-
moyne, 8-3; Easts drew with St.
George, 9-all; Gordon beat Parra-
matta, 11-8; and Randwick beat
Norths, 9-0.
* * * *
St. Kilda, beaten 14.13 to 10.11
by Richmond on Saturday, is now
playing an in-and-out game so far as
the V.K.L. “four” is concerned. Well
“in” after the first five games of the
season, they went “out” against
Essendon and Geelong, got “in”
against Fitzroy, and went “out”
against Richmond. It leaves Essen-
don, after belting Hawthorn by 22.15
to 9.7, on top, Melbourne and North
Melbourne next, and St. Kilda, Carl-
ton, Richmond, Geelong and Colling-
wood all with chances, with half the
season gone. North was jubilant over
a 14.14-9.12 win against ’Wood at
Victoria Park, the first time North
has beaten ’Wood at home since
North joined the V.F.L. 25 years
ago. Poor kicking cost Geelong the
match against Carlton, 15.9 to 13.20,
after they’d led nearly all the way.
Melbourne beat South Melbourne,
13.16-8.12, and Fitzroy walloped
Footscray, 11.18-6.15.
♦ ♦ * ♦
Represented by the official Davis
Cup team, plus a swag of independent
tourists, Australia must have a great
show of bagging some of the Wimble-
don titles this year, particularly as
several of the American topnotcners,
including Schroeder, will be absentees.
Played in London on Saturday, the
final of the Kent men’s singles
championship saw an all-Australian
final fought out by a couple of the
unofficial tourists in Geoff Brown and
W. Sidwell. Brown won the mara-
thon match, 8-6, 7-9, 17-15.


Your next move
m
for better prices, consign
your clip
to
A.M.L.&F. specialists handle your
wool skilfully from its arrival in
store to the fall of the hammer—
with greater returns and less worry
for yon! There’s a network of
Branches throughout the pastoral
areas—consult the A.M.L.&F. .
man at your nearest Branch
and get the best cheque possible
in any season!
87 Years in the Service of the Man on the Loml.
AML IW.
Inc. In England, 1863.
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches:— N.S. lF.; Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina, Cooma and Deniliqum.
Q’land: Townsville, Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi,
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby aod
Pittsworth, Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, H. P. Veness & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Winton. Vic.: Wodonga, Korumburra.
“ Phenovis” Worm Remedy
aching time H
fyp ovis ' 0 fin,e ‘
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
V/W
w
V'///.
////
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
fds
ds
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-8191
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Om MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
mm
J&
, t
m
*.*
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
OVALITY GUARANTEED. -
Obtainable from all the L * ad '* B
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd
Regd Office & Works, BlackwaU Pt. Road, Fwe
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydn y
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. E T c
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS
Mulesing Lambs.
N.S.W. Graziers’
Association sponsored a test of
the effects of mulesing on lambs.
It was claimed that sheep should
not be operated on earlier than
the hogget stage because the
permanent crutch-wrinkles are
not sufficiently developed and
lambs couldn’t stand the shock.
On the other hand, some favored
early operating to avoid the
heavy manual labor of handling
grown sheep.
The test was conducted with
the co-operation of a Mr.
Makeig, of Dungalear, Walgett,
and planned and supervised by
V. G. Cole, B.V.Sc., Grazcos’
veterinary officer. About mid-
November last, when lamb-
marking was in progress, 160
ewe-lambs, aged six to eight
weeks, were divided into four
groups —three of 50 lambs and
one of 10.
Treatment of each group was
designed to answer these ques-
tions :
(1) Can lambs stand the combined
operations of marking and mulesing?
If not, to what extent are they set
back?
(2) Would it be possible and/or
preferable to do part of the opera-
tion at marking and the balance
later?
(3) Does mulesing cut down the
necessity for crutching, and if so, to
what extent?
(4) Are short- or medium-length
tails preferable?
Benefits that would result
from mulesing lambs at marking
are numerous. Sheep are most
vulnerable to strike from birth
to 18 months ; protection against
crutch-strike during that period
would be an enormous relief.
It would save several musters if
crutching could be reduced. It
is easier to catch and hold young
lambs than grown sheep.
The first 50 were earmarked
and tailed —tail just long enough
to cover the vulva —then the
“radical” mules operation was
done. This technique is the most
drastic in use, but has given
wonderful results. It means re-
moving a wide, crescent-shaped
area of wool-bearing skin from
the rear of the thighs, starting
above the butt of the tail. All
the wool-bearing skin is removed
from the tail and a strip above
it, thus joining the thigh- and
tail-areas.
The edges of the skin draw
together and heal within a re-
markably short time. All lambs
were weighed before marking
and five weeks after it. In that
time the group had healed, and
had gained 101 b. per head.
Group Two had the wool-
bearing skin removed from the
tails only. This was to check
on the protection obtained
from tail-strike, whether it
would affect crutch-strike, and
to test the value of doing half
the operation at marking and the
balance later. These sheep also
healed completely and gained
121 b. a head when inspected five
weeks later.
Group Three, marked and left
unmulesed, gained 131 b. per head
in the five weeks.
Group Four, marked and
given the “radical” mules opera-
tion, had their tails cut short.
Their average gain in weight
was the same as Group One.
At the next inspection by
Cole, in February, the slight lag
in the body weights of Groups
One and Four had been made
up. The humid conditions were
ideal for flystrike, and a com-
parison of the groups at this
stage showed the value of mules-
ing. Groups One and Four
were clean and dry in the crutch,
none had been struck, but there
had been 14 per cent, flystrike
in the unmulesed Groups Two
and Three, and crutch staining
was general.
These two groups had to be
crutched in March, as flystrike
in Group Two had increased to
32 per cent, and in the controls
to 28 per cent. At this time
Group Two was mulesed. The
“moderate” technique was em-
ployed, which consists of re-
moving a crescent-shaped strip
"He didn't kno-ow the pond was fro-zen!"
from the rear of the thighs, but
not joined to the tail-operation.
Three sheep from each group
were brought to Sydney Sheep
Show. The evidence offered by
the lambs was convincing.
There was little difference in
average weights, and points
drawn from the experiment
were:
(1) That in a good season it is
perfectly safe to mules lambs at
marking.
(2) That in a bad season the tail
operation can be performed and the
“moderate” operation completed at
a later crutching or shearing.
(3) That up to the age of nine
months, mulesed lambs did not need
crutching, while unmulesed sheep had
to be done.
The extent to which crutching
may be avoided will not be
known until the experiment has
run for some time. However,
stations that used to crutch three
times a year are now crutching
once only, and some are not
crutching at all unless #eeP are
stained oy excessive scouring.
Zebus and Ticks.
“Oxo”: Murdo McKenzie,
Old Hidden Vale, Grandchester
IQ.), has not found it necessary
to dip zebu hybrids during the
,wo years he has been running
them, although he has had to
uip his Herefords every three
to four weeks in summer to save
them from ticks. Some of these
zebu hybrids carry only one-
eighth zebu blood. McKenzie
brands 300 calves a year, of
which 40 to 50 carry the zebu
strain, and the latter, although
running in the worst paddock
on the property, are nearly twice
as big as the other cattle.
The hybrids he regards as
“mostly brindles and offensive
to the eye,” and he suggests that
more thought needs to be given
to evolving a beast suited in type
and color to Queensland con-
ditions. That is why, on his
visit overseas, he intends, if pos-
sible, to visit Dr. Kleberg, of
the King Ranch (Texas), where a
red uniform type of zebu has
been evolved ; he may also in-
spect zebus in South America.
McKenzie considers the idea of
a uniform type well worth pur-
suing, because, apart from
hybrids being resistant to ticks,
he has made more money from
them than from other cattle, as
they “mature a year earlier and
carry more meat.” During the
recent wet period, when cattle
could not be mustered, Mc-
Kenzie lost several Hereford
weaners from ticks, but the
zebus remained untroubled and
kept their condition.
Spent Wash as Manure.
Sarina ; For mamr
very valuable
stance has been pumned ! Sub ‘
by a distmery
This is the so-called
wash” semi - liquid Pent
material that rSns ? f f e
power-alcohol has been m fter
f actured from molasses and/n'
raw sugar. dncl /or
The rather unpleasant-smellin
waste is pumped dow ™ 0 1ln 8
coastal area, where it dries
somewhat and leaves a ZS
residue. While drying the''S
attracts house flies, but D TVr
sprays prevent them from breed
mg. CCQ -
After observing thp
phenomenal growth made bv
weeds following a dose of t hi
waste, cane-farmers tried he
dried material on their im
poverished cultivation paddocks'
Results were very good, field
tonnages being increased and
sugar tests improved. The waste
is made all the more valuable
as a plant food by the fact that
it takes effect quickly and thus
speeds the crop along, reducing
cultivation costs, 5
The local sugar-experiment
station has found it of great
benefit in trials on potted sugar-
cane plants, growth and sugar
content both being influenced
It is certainly rich in plant foods
including potash. ’
Know by Touch.
“Girrawheen”: Loss of weight
in fowls is not always associated
with an ailment. Condition may
fall when a pullet is laying hard.
It pays to handle pullets once
weekly. The best layers keep
their weight and are not over-
fleshed at abdomen or breast-
bone. They certainly feel full
around Jhe abdomen, and con-
tinuous laying gives them a
somewhat prominent breast-
bone. These indications show
the most regular egg-performers.
Fowls which feel overheavy,
with well-rounded breastbones
and full, hard abdomens, are fit
for the oven. They are never


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
1
m
ti
mi
hi
I*
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra,
BOOM-ONLY BATES:
Single Booms—
From 9/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 18/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
Take a
(jom.mAa&m Oad^tc
across the
To UNITED STATES • CANADA
and UNITED KINGDOM
SPEED WITHOUT FATIGUE ... you fly relaxed,
arrive refreshed wKen you go Canadian Pacific style.
Travel this comfort way to Canada, United States or
United Kingdom. Fifteen dollars provided at New York
for through passengers to United Kingdom.
ENJOY ALL THESE TRAVEL EXTRAS WHEN YOU
FLY CANADIAN PACIFIC STYLE
r FARES IN \
AUSTRALIAN POUNDS
V NO DOLLARS'
\ REQUIRED )/■
SYDNEY TO SAN FRANCISCO
AND ALL PACIFIC COAST
POINTS :
£A265/8/- single
£A477/14/- RETURN
SYDNEY TO U.K.;
£A325 single
£ASBS RETURN
• PRESSURISED 4-engined
“ Empress ” Airliners
• Luxurious “Loungaire” reclin-
ing chairs
• Excellent food unequalled
service
• Sleep ashore overnight at Fiji
and Honolulu as the guest cf
Canadian Pacific
• Stop-over at Honolulu if
desired
B Fifteen dollars provided at
New York for through pas-
sengers to U.K.
For further details apply Canadian Pacific
Railway Company, or Union Steam Ship Co.
(General Agents), 21,7 George Street, Sydney,
and 59 William Street, Melbourne, or any
authorised Tourist Agency.
AIRLINES
'the wings of the world’s greatest travel system
Canadian Pacific Air Lines Limited - Incorporated in Canada
THE WORLD'S FINEST VERMOUTHS
SINCE 1816
SWEET
OE ORY
;:i^b...... ‘i
SEHiEB
PASTE ST
and
EASIEST
way to castrate
CALVES
You will have far less trouble and
get far greater speed in marking
calves with ELASTRATOR. And
you get the advantage of a com-
pletely bloodless operation with no
setback to the calf, resulting in
uninterrupted growth.
ELASTRATOR
(REGD. TRADE MARK)
fpr Bloodless, Safe/ Humane
CASTRATION & TAILING
OF
LAMBS & CALVES
From station suppliers, woolbrokers, chemists
and stores. Instrument, £5/5/-; Antiseptic
Latex Rings, 25/- per box of 500 (Capital
City Prices.)
Distributed in Victoria, Southern
Riverina and Tasmania by
D. G. OFFICER PTY„ LTD.,
90 William Street, Melbourne, and
123 a Charles Street, Launceston.
Distributed in Queensland by
TAYLOKS EELIOTTS PTY.,
LTD.,
Brisbane —Rockhamptdn—Townsville.
Distributed in N.S.W. by
ELLIOTTS RUBAI. LABORA-
TORIES, ELLIOTTS & AUST.
DRUG PTY. LTD.,
85 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Distributed in South Australia by
BENNETT & EISHEB, LTD.,
4 Currie St., Adelaide, and Branches.
V'
Distributed in West Australia by
DAVID GRAY & CO. PTY., LTD.,
2*lo Railway Parade, West Perth.
A PRODUCT OF EEASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY,, DTD.
EL. 6
„nod layers- The pullet which
fels light usually gives a long
equence of eggs but the eggs
heins on the small size, are not
n f much value to the farmer,
and it P a y s to lock them up
separately, fatten and sell them
for the table.
A Useful Review.
“R Ney”: Though a lot has
been heard about other
countries, Britain continues to
be the biggest buyer of our wool
an d herself has regained her
dominating position as an ex-
porter of woollen manufactures.
Winchcombe, Carson’s Annual
Review says that in 1949 Britain
exported 60,115,0001 b. of tops, a
record figure and more than
twice the 1946 total. Over 50
p.c. of Britain’s wool imports
are from Australia,
The Review notes a “marked
increase in buying on German
account” at local wool sales,
but holds that Japanese wool-
buying has not come up to ex-
pectations. The Winchcombe,
Carson people expect American
interests to play a more import-
ant part in Australian wool sales
in the near future.
This wool-and-stock firm has
been putting out these Annual
Reviews covering wool growing
and selling, mutton and lamb
production and beef-cattle de-
velopments for years. As usual
the current one gives an overall
picture of the past season and an
estimate of the future, backed by
sound statistical information and
a close knowledge of land pro-
duction. Nobody interested in
land matters and related market
activities should be without a
copy.
Paspalum Seed.
“Coraki”: A little-known in-
dustry that returns good wages
to the workers and earns dol-
lars for Australia is paspalum-
seed harvesting on the N.S.W.
North Coast. Paspalum is valu-
able grass for dairy herds, a.nd
the demand for seed is almost
world-wide.
The North Coast appears to
be the only place in the world
where it seeds. Harvesters work
during late summer and autumn
when the grass is seeding. Gangs
work through the paddocks
gently “handshaking” the pas-
palum and piling the ripe seed
in heaps. This is loaded into
trucks and laid out on hessian
to dry. Between 600 and 800
tons of seed are gathered in the
area between the Manning and
Tweed Rivers, most of it ex-
ported to the United States,
which in turn re-exports a por-
tion to South America. New
Zealand and South Africa are
also buyers. Last year the re-
turn was in the vicinity of
£200,000, mostly in dollars.
The Homestead Piano.
“Bill C”: Humidity in the
tropics can be very destructive
to a piano. Several times during
the year go over the strings and
steel parts with a cloth dipped
in petroleum lubricating oil.
This can be obtained in 4gal.
lots from the oil companies. If
gumming-up follows a number
of coatings rub off with petrol,
hut apply fresh oil immediately.
If the piano surface appears
dull shake together in a jar a,
tablespoon each of pure turps
and olive-oil, a teaspoon of
lemon juice, 10 drops of clove-
oil and five drops of ammonia
and rub over the piano with this.
Then polish.
Gupi-free Poison.
“E.H.S,”: ' The theory (B.
3/5/’5O) “that nature has pro-
vided a poison (hydrocyanic
acid) in the leaves of the sugar-
gum to kill out all competitors
for space” and that no grass or
trees will grow near those gums,
as the poison from the fallen
leaves kills bacteria in the soil,
is not a convincing one. I don’t
know whether or not the foliage
of the red ironbark, stringy-
bark and white-box contains
hydrocyanic acid, but I do know
that these trees prevent the
growth of vegetation in their im-
mediate vicinity in the same way
as the sugar-gum, and when they
are ringbarked the areas sur-
rounding them will carry a good
shoot of grass and the beginning
of other vegetation in the fol-
lowing spring. This could not
happen if the bacteria were
eliminated from the soil.
Hints for the Farm.
* “Sundowner”: As soon as a
vegetable crop is harvested clear
off the refuse and dig or fork
the soil. If the land is not re-
quired during winter it should
be sown with a green crop,
which will suppress weed growth,
and when full-grown should be
incorporated in the soil to build
up humus content; it will also
make the soil more friable and
easier to work in spring. Mustard
is quick-maturing, taking about
14 weeks. Blue lupins, a favorite
with commercial growers, re-
quires 20 weeks to reach the
flowering stage and will provide
shelter for winter and spring
crops.
“Big Billy”: If vegetable crops
sprayed with D.D.T. become in-
fested with red-mite because the
chemical has killed predators of
this insect, apply dustings of
finely-ground sulphur mixed
with an equal quantity of
hydrated lime.
“Rooster” : If you want early
potatoes for lifting in November
or December prepare the beds
now. Raise the beds and
arrange them so that they will
obtain all possible sunshine. Dig
in plenty of green manure and
leave fallow for a month. Best
planting time is July or August.
Keep beds well drained and tilth
regularly. The young plants
must be safeguarded against
frost.
“C.A.A.”: Three alternatives
for the destruction of ants:
Carbon bisulphide injected into
the nest —a few ounces will suf-
fice, and be sure to cover nest
with wet bags after applying.
Poison baits, for black-ants mix
11b. of honey in 3oz. of water
together with 16 grains of
arsenite of soda. Solid baits, for
seed - harvesting ants which
damage lawns, may be made up
of 50 parts by weight of flour
to one part of Paris green scat-
tered over the lawn at 12oz. to
100 square feet.


f
KEROSENEENGINE parts
J •
Dimensions of relative parts in these 3 pictures are in exact proportion
m
m
v a
mm
V v,
f
. . ..v''
. • w .A
Mil
' W*
v: I
BULLDOG ENGINE PARTS
%%%%
* #. # A
: - ' i
,✓' v /,jK '
V vfli V*<Ts
i
■
1 w* ■•• a
Si »i iifiMf
AO
,#.^ll:
IS4
Jk ——' .'/
f/7/A | COMPRESSION DIESEL
ENGINE PARTS )
IGNITION ,/%T
H I I I I
High speed, complicated Kerosene engines
The parts of a 4-cylinder Kerosene engine shown above number
over 5 times those in a Lanz or K.L. Bulldog. All this intricate
■mechanism operating at high speeds of 1200 to 1500 r.p.m. is apt
4o wear or break down under tough tractor conditions, thus requiring
constant attention and adjustment or replacement of. delicate parts.
Another great weakness in this type of engine is the unburnt kero-
sene fuel which destroys cylinderlubricant, causing crankcase dilution
and excessive wear. This cannot occur in the Bulldog engine where
only heavy crude oils are used for fuel.
Slow speed, single cylinder Bulldog
Above are the simple, robust parts from the two-stroke, valveless
Bulldog engine. The one piston revs, at only 540 to 630 r.p.m., with
a compression of only 120 lbs. as against 625 lbs. per sq. inch in
the Diesel engine. The same piston travels withiirits cylinder a
distance of 12 miles each hour multi-cylinder pistons of Kerosene
and Diesel engines travel 50 miles every hour. The primary parts
of the Bulldog make 97,200 movements, compared with 1,287,000 move-
ments every hour in 4-cylinder engines. No wonder Bulldogs mini-
mize wear by reducing these astronomical movements.
Sensitive, high compression Diesel engine*
The complicated design of a 4 - cylinder Diesel
the parts in the picture above. Many of the *® a to wear
cate sensitive even to hand temperature. T J ( overhauls
at many vulnerable points, subsequently requiring regul i
and replacement of very expensive parts. JF essures in
rates at high speeds of 1100 to 1200 r p.m. ; because
the cylinders and fuel pump, and demands thie p consumption,
the slightest wear causes engine inefficiency, highe
imperfect combustion and difficult starting.
BULLDOG OWNERS SAVE UPTO £l5O EVERY YEAR ON TRACTOR RUNNING COSTS
ds
£l4 REPAIR BILL
IN 12 YEARS
writes Mr. C. Cable of Boort, Vic.
“The only cost of repairs
and replacements to my
12-year-old Lanz Bulldog
Tractor was approximately
£l4, when the engine itself
was overhauled about 2 years
ago. The gears and dif-
ferential have never been
uncovered. I am still using
the original hot bowl.”
Save i. 20 on Maintenance
Analysis of hundreds of Bulldog
Tractor owners’ running costs
establish their average mainten-
ance bill pj *lO per year. A most
conservative estimate, based on
actual records, of average main-
tenance and repair costs on Ke-
eosene and Diesel Tractors is 130
per year. Bulldog Tractor ope-
ration saves easily *2O per year
«n other tractor running costs.
Save £5O on Depreciation
because of long life
Compare the depreciation of a Butt*
dog against that of a Kerosene
Tractor. Bulldog's annual depre-
ciation is computed at *so Kero*
sene and Diesel Tractors at £lOO.
Thus Bulldogs save you an addi-
tional £5O every year—the result of
which is a resale value far higher
than that of Kerosene, Petrol or
Diesel Tractors of similar h.p. rating.
A
Save £BO on FUEL
Bulldog’* amazing economy ot
operation on crude oil, the cheap*
eit ot fuels, can save you up to
£BO per year on the annual fuel
costs ot Petrol, Kerosene or Diesel
Tractor*. This saving alone over
10 year* goes a long way towards
paying back your initial invest-
ment in a Bulldog.
Contact your State Distributor:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Dangar, Gedye & Malloch, Ltd., 10-14
Young Street, Sydney. VICTORIA: K. L. Tractor Sales Pty.,
Ltd., 314 Spencer Street, Melbourne. QUEENSLAND: K. I
Tractor Sales Pty., Ltd., 121 Brunswick Street, The Valley,
Brisbane. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder Smith & Co., Ltd.. 27-31
Currie Street, Adelaide. WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Kelly & Lewis
CW Pty., Ltd., 349 William Street, Perth. TASMANIA:
K. L. Distributors Pty., Ltd.. 233 Elizabeth Street, HjabatU
Kl
dsf
BUUIK*
Rfunk Oil TR*^
for it NOW!
free!
taxation, “social priorities” (the arbitrary
setting of one class of enterprise above
another), the direction of labor and the
licensing of private enterprise to a certain
extent
The modified Keynes expedients
resorted to by President Roosevelt in his
New Deal involved continuous “pump-
priming” and somewhat indiscriminate
Government spending, all tending to in-
crease money-pressure and force up costs,
But only World War II solved the United
States unemployment problem—for a
decade Costs and prices soared in the
United States during that decade. Prices
are now slackening somewhat, and un-
employment is growing. It is unlikely,
however, that any action to be taken by
President Truman will be of a deflationary
nature
Full Employment
A condition of full employment de-
pends mainly upon a country s consump-
tion (including capital investment) and
exports absorbing its production and im-
ports. When the effort and output of
every man is saleable, obviously there
should be no involuntary unemployment,
Naturally a great deal depends on whether
the supply of goods, services, etc., avail-
able from a community meets the collec-
tive demands and price requirements
of the same community and its ex-
port markets. Undesired production
causes losses and unemployment, and
high-cost production, being hard or
impossible to sell, also tends to dislocate
a free-enterprise rconomy. No private
industry can long function at a loss, and
when high costs discourage consumption
or investment in new industries the lack
of financial and business confidence tends
to create further unemployment.
In the period of a fixed gold standard
the amount of money and credit available
in a country had an elastic but definite
relationship with gold on the basis of
£4 ss. an ounce in both Australia and
Great Britain. In those days anyone who
thought that prices or costs had reached
a high and dangerous level could, if he
was quick enough, change his merchan-
dise or investments into gold or gold-
backed money, and wait till prices came
down to a “safer” level. Very often col-
lective loss of confidence of this nature
produced slump and unemployment, but
it checked the progress of inflation, some-
times, in the process slowing-down
national development. But exceanve. m-
flation such as we see m Australia today,
retards national development.
At present, instead of a credit and
price structure based on gold, it has come
to be based, in effect, on a zero unem-
ployment total. In other words, under
Socialism especially. Government spend-
ing and credit policy are regulated so as
to keep almost everyone m a job, regard-
less of whether the Government con-
cerned has well-planned work for its own
employees to do or not. One result has
been a stimulation of spending on beer
and ice-cream,” and a lag in essential
production (such as houses) and in basic
industrial development.
Costs of production increase as effi-
dency falls and hours of work decrease,
p r jvate industry, under conditions of full
employment, has found that the efficiency
G f j^ s employees has declined. This has
no t always been the wilful desire of in-
dividual wage-earners, but is often the
result of trade-union policy,
For a number of years there has been
n o unemployment bogy to spur wage-
earners on in an effort to keep costs
down. In Australia the position is per-
haps at j ts WO rst in the coalmines, on
the w harves, in the ships and in the build-
ing tra d es . These particular industries
kave shown a big lowering of man-hour
effort QVer the tlO years and a steep
. h t. osts
jL ... . , ~ . , . ■
position in these essential industries
must eventually improve. But meantime
high working costs, other commodity
costs and living costs as a whole have set
a new level of inflation, and nowadays
there is no gold standard that automatically
tends to purge the economy of this in-
flation. Instead, every mistake or loss
made tends to be subsidised out of the
public purse or passed on in the cost of
living; even where unduly high costs
are the fault of private enterprise the
prevailing “economics of scarcity” tend
to sanction the inefficiency and simply
add to the general inflation in costs and
prices. ,
Today we are on a managed-money
basis, anchored to political and economic
expediency rather than to gold. Our
present full-employment policy, until
wage-earners pull their weight better, will
remain inflationary.
Thrift
For the last 10 years thrifty people have
had a bad deal in Australia. Those who
have invested in war loans and other
Government securities have seen the
buying-power of their investment, if
turned into cash and spent, reduced
to almost half, and the interest yield on
this form of security has been cut
from 4 p.c. to about 3 p.c. People with
savings in bank accounts and life policies
have been similarly affected.
Ironically, what are known as “trustee”
investments —consols, mortgages, etc. —
have fared worst froAi the effects of in-
flation over the past decade.
Investors in ordinary shares of indus-
trial companies may have come off some-
what better; but as a class they have
nothing like maintained their position in
the race with price-and-costs inflation—
certainly not to the extent indicated by
the rise in the basic wage.
Thrifty people must be treated better
if value is to be restored to the pound.
Thrift helps to maintain the buying-
power of money, since it is from thrift
that the whole of private industry is
financed: and it is private industry which
turns out consumer goods on a large and
efficient scale. Without thrift there is
no surplus over consumer-spending to
provide capital assets; and these are the
tools which shape greater general pro-
duction and higher living standards.
Conclusions
It may be that man-hour costs —
that is, actual time taken by a man in pro-
ducing an article —will eventually be re-
duced. It is to be hoped, for the
strength of Western democracies
and for the sake of our living
standards, that they will improve very
much indeed. But a huge amount of
paper money and paper-money credit has
been created in all British and American
countries, and if ever there is any con-
flict between the value of United States
paper money and of gold it k i;v i
a higher price will be nlaceri that
not on the paper dollar. n S°kl,
The most that is likely to h*
Australia in this regard is sorrS?** in
ation of our in relation to ? P r Ci '
which would lower the price of
Australia, but even such a nrnn S ° d . in
has met with considerable r^fv 011
opposition, in spite of its anti-inflS tlCal
virtues. ln nationary
AuYtra I? a V ra to to the Lond on-
in buying-power is not w^f-? Wll P°4
and never P will • at u use d to be,
some j t< , i t u llvd ‘ ma y recover
itis sffll losin7^where”* 31
p ro g ts are u • , y w here excessive
p 1 1 f produ^™ ade ° ver and above
h aJ m°ninS ,
rec ] act i ons in p t nr ; r , s pr P fi v ts^~Cou W
manufactured ? goods P be m °a C u UStra | ian
Restoration of 6 Commonwealth
control would be of no real vain? PnCe '
a general price-level comiVWnki
above that of 1939 will remain ThK ■
wage will never be 795. a week again a
795. will never again buy what ft jW-S
in 1939. The basic wage today is rani hi
approaching £7 a week. p iy
To stabilise costs and prices even af
present levels requires a great and uniter
effort by this country, helped by circum
stances abroad. Stability will be achieved
only when there is an adequate world
supply of raw materials—in Australia
of coal and steel particularly— and when
we ourselves, as a nation, adopt, soberlv
and sincerely, the principle of doing a
f day s work for a fair day’s pay.
. Where t “ e national currency and credit
1S based on a full-employment policy, a
great responsibility rests on the shoulders
wage-earners to do their duty in return
*or a system of government and arbi-
tration designed to protect their fair
equity in the national production.
a world slump should occur, while
prices for exports may fall and cost of
imports may cheapen, internal costs will
be very hard to reduce. Domestic prices
for butter, sugar, wheat and metals will
cease to be “subsidised” by present high
export prices, and may have to be m-
creased,
In order to overcome any disequilibrium
caused by a fall in world prices there will
be strong pressure to help the export
industries by exchange depreciation as
well as an attack on costs, as seen in
the last depression.


N u
METAL
SAVES
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
, ~ noar RE-NtT Liquid NU-METAI,
JUS h P nlui? holes. NU-METAL will re-
n P yotir motor while you drive.
films pits and scores. Ends
P6^ n slap and lost compression. Guaran-
plS !. n inOOO miles, and harmless to finest
'■J NU-METAL has been proved and
en gme. 100,000 users since 1934.
teSt nu ‘ owners having used NU-METAL
and four times In the same engme.
Sn METAL comes to you in a separ-
. mhe for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municip_al Councils,
Mail Orders post
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NO-
»rPTAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
Nodose Cheque-P.N.
. or Please send me illustrated Folder,
describing action of NU-METAL,
flame
Address >.--«««
1... B. 21/6/’5O
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
J 47 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250.
DEFEAT THAT
DEVIL
OLD
DANDRUFF
with Lustre Creme America s
Leading Hair Dressing
R 5
M
American men have proved Lustre
Creme banishes dandruff scales,
relieves dry, itching scalp, keeps
hair glossy and healthy. It’s
America’s favourite Hair Dress-
ing. Now it can be yours!
(Hsfte
(giewc
(WITH LANOLIN)
THE INSTANT AID
TO HANDSOME HAIR
A little Lustre Creme —a few
seconds combing and you’ve
handsome hair all day! No
"plastered d’own” look! Lustre
Creme' has a high quality Lanolin
base, best for your scalp, best
for your hair. Lustre Creme has
double action, it spreads and
penetrates double-quick!
IT’S HANDIER IN A TUBE-
TRY IT TO-DAY 1
y&«-
(Jteme
(with Lanolin]
HAIRDRESSING
AMERICA’S
INSTANT AID TO
well BROOMED HAIR
• Relieves dry scalp
* Removes loose dandruff
dsf
• Give* Lustre to dull, unruly hair
• Makes hair healthy and handsome
MID BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STOKES 2/-
A Kay Daumit Preparation
LH3/1K
Missing Friend.
WOULD JOHN DAVID ROBINSON, for-
merly of “The Grange,” Barkly Street,
Elwood, Victoria, a brother of Robert
David Robinson, late of Newcastle upon
Tyne, England, or any person knowing his
whereabouts, please communicate with
the undermentioned. —MOLOMBY AND
MOLOMBY, Solicitors, 99 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
vru sa ° e Ju
m
CLOT
%
SulisA
33
v
GUARANTEED. NEVER
TO FADE OR SHRINK
n «
SSS^.ySBS
. " v
m..
•*:
ff
ii
•M
PLANNING TODAY...
FOR TOMORROW'S
PRODUCTION...
w
■(
-<■
Me
i m
„ ■■- V
\ >
+,
A tandem rolling mill in
action at the Lysaght
works, Port Kembla.
Ever since its inception, John Lysaght
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., has followed a
policy of plant expansion designed to
meet Australia's ever-growing demands
for sheet steel. Increased population
and widespread industrial development,
however, have made ceaseless calls
on the Company's productive capacity
with the result that even today's vastly
increased tonnage is far short of the
nation's full requirements. Plans to
expand existing plant facilities have
therefore been finalised by which the
Company hopes to double its present
output as supplies of raw material and
equipment become available. Current
brands and qualities include Orb Gal-
vanized Iron, Queen's Head Flat,
Zincanneal, Sunstar Black and special
carbon and electrical steel sheets.
LYSAGHT’S
"Growing with Australia
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE. FREMANTLE
L205-M67
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Staurogin’s Con-
fession by Dostoevski.—4854.
Information Sought.
Materials used in concrete work to
produce the colors green, brown and
red, and how are concrete paths
colored ?
Oxide of chromium for green and
oxide of iron for the brown and red.
The color obtained by the use of
oxide of iron depends upon the per-
centage of ferrous and ferric oxide
present. These materials are avail-
able from Dickson Primer and Co.,
73 Day-street, or D. W. Custer, 239
Clarence-street, both Sydney. The
pigment is applied in the forih of a
finishing coat of at least |in. thick-
ness. The mix for this coat for the
best results should be parts sand
to 1 part cement and color-pigment.
The color should first be thoroughly
mixed with the cement in-the propor-
tion of not more than 101b. to the
bag of cement, depending upon the
depth of color. Upon the thorough-
ness of this mixing depends the uni-
formity of the color.
# Jfc %
How to propagate daphne shrubs
by layering?
For layering, bend a limb of
seasoned wood, cut it half-way
through, and slit the stem for about
an inch along with a sharp knife.
Lay the treated limb in a trench or
depression of the soil in which there
is a big helping of sand, then fasten
it down securely with wire or a forked
stick. It will have to be left undis-
turbed for at least six months, then,
if the foliage is still green, sever it
from the plant. If the limb is too
far from the soil, use a box of soil
placed on a stand.
* * * *
Who was it that described Glad-
stone as being “inebriated with the
exuberance of his own verbosity,”
and when and where?
Disraeli, in a speech at Knights-
bridge on July 28, 1878. Gladstone
had shortly before described the
Convention of Constantinople as an
insane convention, and Disraeli
referred to Gladstone as “A sophis-
tical rhetorician inebriated with the
exuberance of his own verbosity and
gifted with an egotistical imagination
that can at all times command an
interminable and inconsistent series of
arguments to malign his opponents
and glorify himself.”
* * * *
Characteristics of the boxfish?
The head and body of this fish,
which is plentiful in Australian waters,
are encased in a hard, bony covering,
leaving only the fins free. Most of
the species are highly ornate, with
amazingly brilliant colors and pat-
terns. They are also known as coffin
or trunk fishes. A common tropical
representative is called cowfish, on
account of two long spines that pro-
ject forward from the forehead like
a pair of horns.
Brief Answers.
F.S.: Agents cannot supply stated
catarrh remedy. Not being made at
present, as ingredients are in short
supply A.C.: Senna pods are
preferable to the leaves for constipa-
tion. Average adult dosage is from
four to eight pods prepared as an
infusion, to be taken at bedtime, as
required. Pour a cup of boiling,
water on the pods, allow to stand
(covered) till cool, then pour off and
drink the liquid before retiring
J.M.P.; To make lemon yeast, cut
up two lemons fairly finely, add one
tablespoon sugar, and pour over it
three cups boiling water. When cold,
strain, add one teaspoon blended
flour, stir and bottle. Stand,in a
warm place until fermentation sets in.
Use one cupful to about nine cups
flour... .A.B.C.: Women in France
were given the right to vote on the
occasion of the first municipal elec-
tions after the liberation of France.
Since then they have retained that
right, and have also voted at legis-
lative elections.... A.M.N.: To make
chilli beer, use two gallons water, 20
chillis, 31b. sugar, 2oz. cream of tartar,
juice of two or three lemons, two
tablespoons yeast. Boil the chillis in
three quarts of the water for 20
minutes, add sugar and cream of
tartar. Strain, add rest of water,
strained lemon-juice and yeast. Bottle,
cork and tie down at once... .G.L.:
Gaberdine is a thick, finely-woven
cloth with a smooth lengthwise sur-
face, intended for use as a stout,
shower-proof material. Saddle-twist
is a heavier material, very closely
woven, with a slightly twill appear-
ance, intended for very hard use in
riding-breeches. Both are of wool;
inferior makes sometimes have a little
cotton woven in J.M.C. ; You can
give him notice to quit on the ground
that he has failed to take reasonable
care of the premises... .G.G.S.: See
Clerk of Petty Sessions, Bourke
H.W.: The Valuer-General does not
increase rents; he only assesses
values E.A.C.: Remedy is by way
of injunction in Equity Court. See a
solicitor J.S.L.: Impossible to say
without knowing total value of wife’s
estate, terms of will, etc. Duty is
based on Valuer-General’s valuation.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS, No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS, will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should bs
addressed to the Editor.
P.C.G.: Take up knitting S.R.:
We yearn for the days when a poet,
upon getting out of bed, would reach
for a hair of the dog that bit him
instead of sitting down to write a
poem to the morning R.D.: We
are not going to rake over that
ground again... .L.A.H.: You’re
better when you don’t try to be
serious... .MJEiMcL.: ■ Why didn’t
you keep to the frying-pan and
kettle? R.L.W.: No justice done
to the subject... .H.McH.: Topical
verse received too late for use
R.A.L.: “If Houses Could Talk,”
they might tell your story better
A.H.C.; A cop shooting ’possums —
do you want to undermine our faith
in the Force?... .D.8.P.; Only the
bones of a story H.McH.: It’s a
bit of a temptation, isn’t it, to invent
a good bar-room brawler and then
invent another one who will beat
him? J.E.: Guess we’re not at-
tuned to spiritualist skits.., .8.M.:
Just one poor thing after another.
... .Bellerive: Will allow him a brief
flutter:—
G.D.: We pray that anything in
that handwriting couldn’t be any
good 8.G.: Sorry, madam....
R.A.: Rather tubercular A.W.:
Pirates a bit tame for U5...-.G.R.:
We try to be fair; no stories about
going to heaven, and no interviews
with the devil, either... .C.R.: We'd
rather have had something exciting
about the modern milk-bar
R.G.H.: “Do you see what I mean?”
No D.G.: “The Bowler Hat” has
been given its bowler hat E.G.:
Maybe Cardus liked your cricket-
story because he mistook it for an
article on music... .A.A.: “The
Mouse that Grew Into an Elephant”
is winging its way home... .M.D.:
Too emotional for us E.H.S.:
You should try to see pubs from the
inside D.A.McK.: Oh dear, no;
you must not make one character say,
“What are you doing here?” and the
other reply, “Whatever the author
tells me.” Not that it’s not done —
it’s done to death... .F.L.: Tiddley-
pop, or The Sentimental Convict.
With a wild shriek
Away he flew ;
A funny old bird
Was Binka cockatoo.
After some hours
A searching around
Upon a fence post
The absconder was found.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Larrikins
Australians have a bad record for
vandalism, but when people damage what
can only be described as life-saving gear,
is passes understanding. Scattered through
the mountains of southern N. S. Wales
and eastern Victoria are huts which have
often provided a refuge for holiday-
makers overtaken by sudden storms —a
few years ago three people perished in a
blizzard when their strength gave out
only a short distance from one of these
huts.
Some of the huts are owned by bush-
walking and ski clubs, but most of them
belong to the men who lease the alpine
country for summer grazing of cattle.
The cattlemen have never refused to
let members of such clubs use the huts,
provided that the ordinary rules govern-
ing hospitality and camping were
observed, and practically no club mem-
ber gave any cause for complaint. The
clubs have also gone to considerable ex-
pense to send emergency food and bed-
ding supplies to the huts by pack-
horse every year, for the use of anybody
in an emergency, with an “honor system”
which laid down that anyone using the
supplies through dire necessity was ex-
pected to pay for them.
A new factor has entered the picture in
the form of city larrikins out for a bush
holiday. Some of the damage done by
these human pests during the past summer
would be hard to believe if it weren’t
well authenticated, Windows have been
deliberately smashed and doors left open
for cattle to walk in and play havoc
with the fittings. Blankets and sleeping-
bags have been stolen. Food-containers
have been left open to allow rats and
other vermin to enter; in some cases
flour and similar foodstuffs have been
wantonly thrown around on the floors.
What seems to be the limit happened
last summer when some cattlemen arrived
at a hut which they owned and found it
difficult to gain admittance because 10
louts had taken possession of it. This
kind of larrikin, who doesn’t belong to
any of the walking clubs, moves around
the country leaving a trail of damage
and ill will. Naturally, cattlemen and
walking and ski clubs are incensed, but
find that there is little they can do about
it —the louts naturally don’t sign the log-
books at the huts or leave any other clue
to their identity.
Other countries, notably Switzerland,
Austria and America, were once troubled
by pests like these who damaged refuge-
huts or who left them in a filthy condi-
tion, but a cure was found by sending
some young police constables, dressed like
ordinary walkers or mountain climbers, to
make a round of the huts during holi-
days. Heavy fines which followed were
some deterrent, but what really did the
trick was the disgrace of the publicity
given to the names of the convicted
vandals.
“Plain Australian” (B. 7/6/’5O) thinks
that the root cause of the trouble is a
defect in our education systems and/or
home training. That idea has been ex-
ploded ; when convicted, most vandals
prove to be people whose relations, school-
teachers and friends had no idea that
they had this kink to destroy. What
does stop them is the fear of being
caught, fined and having their .misdeeds
publicised.—H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
Farmers
Farmers are doing nicely, financially,
though not quite in the millionaire class.
Their incomes are higher than ever before,
and, of course, they may grow their own
meat, milk, butter, eggs, vegetables, fruit,
firewood and honey, though, for a variety
of reasons, few farms are selfsufficient
in all those lines. But before comparing
the farmers’ incomes with those earned
by the aristocrats of labor, there are a
few points to bear in mind.
For years the farmer has had to scrimp
and save to pay off his overdraft. By
middle-age his farm may be free of debt,
and it is only reasonable that he should
then earn interest on his capital—the
result of his early self-denial —as well as
wages.
A farmer’s income is usually the
earnings, not of himself alone, but of his
family as well. What would the brick-
layer or slaughterman earn if his wife
and children worked part-time with him?
Many things that are luxuries to city
folk are vital necessities to the farmer.
He must have, for example, some kind
of motor-vehicle. And his children, if
they are to get more than a smattering
of education, must go away to boarding-
school. He cannot even claim the full
cost of their schooling as an income-tax
deduction.
He cannot, if he would, be always
spending money on non-essentials. He
can’t drop in at the pub on the way
home from work, visit the pictures twice
a week or the races or beaches at week-
ends. So when he does go to town he
has more money in his pockets, giving a
rather misleading impression of wealth.
He works hours that wouldn’t be
tolerated by most unionists. The dairy-
farmer, even if he manages to work only
eight hours a day, must still work a
spread of 12 hours or more, Sundays
included. The wheatgrower has his slack
times, but at sowing and harvest, particu-
larly if the weather is uncertain, he gener-
ally keeps going to the limit of human
endurance.
It is a good life, for those who are
“Spare a trey f'r th' c' lection-plate, sport?”
temperamentally fitted to it, but it is not
overpaid. As proof of that, there is no
sign yet that the “drift from the land,”
disclosed in the last census, has yet been
appreciably checked. Yet there is a long
waiting-list for employment on the
wharves and in the leadmines, neither of
them very easy jobs.—M. C. (Q.).
National Health
Serjpus consideration of the cost to
the individual should be given before any
national health scheme is introduced.
Taxpayers can expect little, if any, re-
duction in the present social services con-
tributions they are making and, under
Sir Earle Page’s plan, they will have to
make further contributions to friendly
societies or kindred organisations if they
expect to gain the full benefits.
Apparently, the fees to friendly
societies will approximate 3s. a week for
breadwinners with dependents. That,
coupled wjth the social services contri-
bution, will make an appreciable dent
in the income of families on the lower
levels. In harsher times the total pay-
ment for a National Health Scheme could
conceivably reduce the amount of fruit,
milk or other foods bought by the family.
Such reductions would not be in the
interests of health.
Sir Earle Page’s rather optimistic state-
ments regarding the cost of administering
his scheme will have to be revised. He
can hardly expect lodge officials to con-
tinue working unpaid, and on a part-time
basis, to deal with the claims and pay-
ments of a vastly-increased membership.
It will be necessary to pay full-time
officials, which will send the cost of the
scheme up. The individual, through taxa-
tion and membership fees, will have to
meet the cost.
Free medical attention and free
medicines, as envisaged in the suggested
national scheme, are not free in reality.
They could easily become burdensomely
expensive to the individual and the
nation. A far better investment would
be to tackle the eradication of the cause
of disease, to speed up the campaign to
stamp out tuberculosis, cancer and the
rheumatic complaints, among others, to
expand hospital facilities and to take
medical, dental and optical services to
the residents of districts now denied
them. James Mahoney (Secretary,
National Health League, Sydney).
Suppression
“Castlereagh” (B. 31/5/’5O) clearly
proves from past history that majorities
have been successful in suppressing
minorities. He could have gone further
and proved from present history that
small but militant minorities have com-
pletely suppressed overwhelming
majorities.
Most of us have seen nameless indi-
viduals raise themselves from obscurity
to become dictators, tyrants and war
leaders. Hitler was in a doss-house when
he made his first proselytes. Mussolini
carried a hod before he began to ad-
minister castor-oil. Marx was armed
only with a pen. Lenin and Stalin
planned their world revolution behind
stone walls and iron bars. During living
memory the world has been turned up-
side down by minorities that were at
first despised because of their seeming
weakness, and at the last were subdued
only at the cost of millions of lives and
an inferno of agony.
The minorities of today have no
illusions on the subject. They boldly
declare that their objective is to suppress
the majority, no matter how overwhelm-
ing its numbers may be.
There are times when the stroke of a
pen, by outlawing an incipient revolution,
can be more powerful than an atom-
bomb after the battle has been joined.
—Adullam (S.A.).
The Means Test
Certain Federal politicians who didn’t
make the grade at the last elections have
gone into retirement on a pittance (previ-
ously arranged by themselves) of only
£8 a week. Nothing is said about a
“means-test”; Parliamentary privilege
presumably obviates any necessity for
that.
An ordinary citizen, at 65, can apply
for the age-pension—about a quarter of
what his Parliamentary masters give them-
selves, He fills in several printed pages
of questions, relating to residence in Aus-
tralia, parentage, marriage and family ties,
details of any land he possesses, type of
residence he occupies and how it is
cumbered, number of livestock he main-
tains, whether he’s insured and exact par-
ticulars of what he has in bonds, scrip,
mining shares and in the bank (with
details of bank accounts, passbooks, etc.),
whether he runs a boardinghouse (nothing
said about selling watches or running a
bookie agency), what his wife does with
any spare time and how much cash she
has, whether he has any non-repaid loans,
superannuation, or other items coming
his way in the future. This document he
signs before a J.P. or other authorised
person, remembering the penalities if he
makes a false statement.
After all that he obtains a declaration
(on printed form) from someone who’s
known him for at least 20 years and has
seen him frequently, and who (judging by
the nature of the statement which he also
attests) is expected to know all his private
business transactions and his intimate
family life. He’s already given full par-
ticulars of his earnings, and how he’s
existed for the past couple of years; but
to make sure that he hasn’t overlooked
anything a police-officer comes along to
check up, fliii ng ;
similar to the Amt. nother state meM
‘-of s'aS S‘T S
certiAcates, queries r^ h r dt‘ Up t °“ Wrfo
cants general reliability S , tle appli,
th?n» • behaV j or - In due y cou°e ri| ? y
thing is satisfactory he wt® 6 ’ eve rv-
offi 1 he T y Call at the arran° P tl J Cation
office and collect fortnightlv 1 8< S P° s t'
reporting immediately Tf y hif bject to
Sh °H l( i increased to bevonH l
scribed limit from any outside the pre '
Is it any wonder that th? t SoUrce s.
scramble for Parliamentary seats' r!, Ch >
been much pre-election talk r!? ? L The Ts
of the ordinary means test“tat n, b ° lition
S.) ~ 1116 ti
Strikes
.‘‘Waddlin’ Willie” (B. n/M'vw .
[h 8h J n u opming that, in normal s ? 18
the Melbourne tram strikers S d tlmes >
have been broke, back on thbtl SPOr l
appearing before the Concil Son
missioner. Communist director
stoppage openly boasted that 85
of the strikers were otherwise pm!
and could live in comfort wfei?'
general public suffered co2* Sf
monetary loss and discomfort. ble
That has been the case in event rv. •
strike during recent boom years
seems remarkable that employe s haven?
!ong ago hit upon a method of prevent!
strikers from obtaining other fo£ lns
1 know that many unscrupulous
ployers are so short of labor that thev
will employ anyone, but if the better
section were to co-operate the strike
would soon find himself broke, depend
mg upon union funds for subsistence and
reviewing the position.
The plan is simple. Jt involves puffins
just one question to applicants for a
J °£ : did you last work and
when? If the reply were not verified bv
the alleged employer, there would be no
job for the applicant.
Strikers would find it difficult to evade
the obstacle, and then, obliged to depend
upon their Communist coercers, would
soon see reason. There would be fewer
frivolous strikes. —Helldud (N.S.W.).
Drovers—Old and New
“G.A.’s” claim (B. 17/5/’5O) that old
drovers don’t do the job properly because
of their age is not the case in the n.-c.
Victorian alps country. Here, too, it is a
problem to find drovers, but no one gives
the job to the youngsters if an old-timer
is available. One old-timer who died in
harness recently was in his seventy-eighth
year, but it is doubtful if there was a
better drover on the roads.
Old drovers are more reliable, more
careful with the stock, and take pride in
a safe delivery. They live with their
mobs. Nearing a town, they are not side-
tracked by the proximity of a pub, nor
do they leave their charges to chase a spell
of overnight hilarity.
Stockowners lament the passing of the
old drovers. The few young ones that
are available belong to a new world, and
must be spoonfed. One of their latest
demands is free motor transport to take
them, their horses and equipment either
to the start of the drove or back when
the job is finished.
The alternative —motor transport for
stock-shifting is more costly, but with the
shortage of drovers, plus the beet
shrinkage en route, buyers and breeder/
are rapidly changing, where possible, to
the latejj method for getting stock to the
rail-heads— Grazier (Vic.).
Blood Donors , .
A few months ago, at the time of
explosion in H.M.A.S. Tarakan, I decided
to become a blood donor. I left the Red
Cross Transfusion Centre minus 500 c.c.
of blood and plus a feeling o
satisfaction in having made a reakcon
tribution to the health of my fellowm
—a little Pasteur. n
The other day I lost another 500 ec.
The nurse who attended me has ban
gallons of the stuff. It » f b £
her and a pretty hard one at
she thanked me for calling. It
I realised why I didn't f* “
Pasteur” feeling again. There. T done
thanks due to me. The nur
all the work —I had had
an hour lying on my back w
coffee and a biscuit at the e through
blood I lost would be replaced,
no effort of mine, 24 n h ““ t ! e coU ple of
even miss my usual bus or the
schooners I would have h
lost 30 minutes. ea i or
Yet the Red Cross has to app
wait for a tragedy to ocoi , their
people into donating 30 most
time once every three months to
practical health sc h el TJf Every-
one can draw on the bloo
one should invest in »•
(N.S.W.). '


■ mmerlad expresses page after page of
s °"r sentiments about the importance of
rtress and the duty of the Press and
f formal rules for the behavior of the
£lUone had not known there were
ffmany Codes .of Ethics in the
AA All this is true enough. It
WOr nice to be reminded that when
1S 0 is reviewing Mr. Sommerlad’s
Sc one is not merely “scribbling
fnr money”— though one trusts one’s
° es will be paid—but is performing a
nble service in the interests of truth,
Uistice literature, freedom of expression,
itc And it is also salutary, in a time
when journalistic standards are not
always what they should be, to be re-
minded that newspapers are supposed to
ell the truth and to enlighten rather
ban to degrade their readers, and so on.
But the question is, who in this wicked
world is going to read these noble senti-
ments?
Perhaps the Young Reporter. Perhaps
those who propose to become Young
Reporters. Perhaps their parents. And
no doubt it is for these citizens, and not
for ink-stained veterans, that Mr.
Sommerlad has written Mightier Than the
Sword. It will do the Young Reporter
good ; it will make his parents more com-
fortable. And, though it is not in any
way a guide to the journalistic markets
—Stanley Brogden’s The Australian Free
Lance is the best thing of that kind in
recent years —it contains some useful in-
formation on what may and may not be
expected from university courses in
journalism, how newspaper cadets are
appointed, what a news-editor is, and so
on.
Except that he might have warned the
young writer that journalism, though it
may not do him any harm, is not the same
thing as literature, Mr. Sommerlad’s
advice is generally very oimd ; and no-
where more impeccably so than when he
declares, “Sooner or later in his career
every journalist in the making should get
the broadening experience which only
country newspapers can give The
provinces provide a comprehensive train-
ing that is unobtainable anywhere else.”
Up at Nansngo.
A novelist might easilv get a saga-
series out of Wilderness to Wealth,
1850-1950, compiled for the Nanango
Centenary and South Burnett Historical
Committee by J. E. Murphy and E. W.
Easton, M.A. Mr. Murphy has already
got a short story out of it in his “Wed-
ding in the Inn” (B. 22/3/’50).
The book is a hundred years of the
history of the Queensland Shires of
Nanango, Kingaroy, Wondai, Murgon,
Kilkiven and the Upper Yarraraan
portion of Rosalie Shire. Pioneer sheep-
stations seem to have been established in
these shires in the early 1840’s—
Taromea, Nanango and Tarong in the
Nanango shire in 1842; Henry Stuart
Russell’s Burrandowan in Kingaroy shire
in 1843 ; Booubyjan, Boonara, Barambah,
Gigoomgan, Kilkivan and others in Kil-
kivan shire were taken up in 1849, etc.
The most romantic of the shires is
Nanango, since its town is on the site
of a pub established in 1848 by a
prospector, Jacob Goode, when his
horse’s knocked up near Barker’s Creek ;
though in his Bulletin story Mr.
Murphy the romantic author must be
corrected by Mr. Murphy the historian:
it was not in the time of Jacob Goode,
but of John Bright, who took over the
pub on Goode’s death in 1859, that
young Sellens, the stockman, of Tarong
was married to Mary Cassells by Dean
Rigney in Goode’s Inn, March 11, 1860.
The district seems to have been as full
of colorful characters as Mr. Murphy’s
story suggested; not only were “Dr.”
O’Connor’s degrees questioned, but also
those of “Dr.” O’Sullivan and of “Dr.”
Von Stein. O’Connor hovered between
medicine, tippling and working as a
station-hand ; O’Sullivan set bones very
ably; and Von Stein mixed a severely
Prussian manner with midwifery and
spiritualist seances.
Nanango was visited by a bushranger
known as “The Wild Scotsman,” a
chivalrous gentleman who twice held up
Pat McCallum the mailman. “This is
too much,” said Pat McCallum. “Every-
one will be thinking we are working to-
gether.” “The Wild Scotsman” (Mac-
pherson) played the time-honored role of
him who takes from the rich and gives
to the poor, but upon a poor shepherd’s
wife refusing a bag of silver he “lectured
the woman for her ingratitude and rode
off in high dudgeon.” He was caught,
escaped twice, and finally was sentenced
to twenty-five years’ imprisonment; but
on representations of citizens he was
enlarged after having served eight years,
and for the twenty-one years until his
death, in 1895, by falling from a horse,
he lived virtuously about the district.
There was also Tommy Donn, a horse-
stealer, who annoyed the police a little
more than somewhat by stealing a police
horse from a police paddock by loosen-
ing a couple of waterlogged posts after
heavy rain ; captured, he escaped from
a police stockade while under police
guard ; and then, having been traced to
a girl-friend’s hut, he escaped again,
warned by the barking of dogs. Sergeant
Swords, in charge of the police party,
might have shot Donn through the
window, but was afraid of hitting the
girl-friend or her family; in understand-
able chagrin over Donn’s escape he blew
his own brains out. There are stories of
Donn having been seen later in the
district, and there is a legend that he
worked as a bootmaker in Nanango
itself.
Or there was Bob Sexton who, before
the railway came, drove the coach be-
tween Nanango and Kilkivan, played
cards with the passengers, notably with
a sporting magistrate, with the sky the
limit, and once lost his coach and horses
on the turn of a card: “A popular story
has it that after this losing deal, he
offered to pay his fare to the new owner
of the coach and horses.”
One of Nanango’s best-remembered
citizens is W. Selby of Selby’s store, who
was owed thousands throughout the
district, and was always paid, and who
began the first cream-run to Wondai, the
railhead for Gympie. Early wheatgrowers
of the Kunioon district, when wheat was
down to 2s. 6d. a bushel, would cart
their grain to Toowoomba, and bring it
back as flour to Mr. Selby, who would
pay 4s. a hundredweight more for flour
than grain.
Still, Mr. Selby liked to see stock mov-
ing ; in 1891 he got together a cartful of
merchandise that was not selling very
well, disguised his trusted employee, J. T.
Yeates, in dyed hair and thick glasses,
and staged a breakdown on the edge of
the town. Crowds came to attend the
auction of the fancy-dress hawker's
goods, and not the least interested
observer of the spirited bidding was W.
Selby himself.
Scab, catarrh and other diseases con-
verted the district from sheep to cattle-
raising around the 1880’s; closer-
settlement subdivided the old properties ;
most of the shires had gold-rushes—gold
was first discovered in Nanango in 1865
by James Nash, who later found the
Gympie field—but the best result seems
to have been the luring of labor into the
district. A hospital “to be erected at a
cost not exceeding £200” was begun in
1898 ; a doctor was advertised-for at £l5O
a year; but the first doctor, Doctor
Morris, was accepted by the committee
upon his tender “to cater for patients at
2s. 6d. per day—spirits not included.” In
1891, Mr. J. T. Yeates, probably he who
acted the hawker in Mr. Selby’s little
drama of skullduggery, formed the
Nanango Town and District Band;
The original and only instrument pos-
sessed by the band was a side-delivery
comet, on which all members learned to
play and passed out with honors before
any expansion was mooted. With his
pupils at this stage of advancement J. T.
Yeates approached his employer, Mr.
Selby, who, in his characteristic manner,
advanced £6O for instruments.
Among the photographs illustrating
Nanango shire there is a photograph of
the early band, with Mr. Selby’s instru-
ments ; and perhaps the most striking
evidence of the rise of the district is
shown in these photographs; the
modern buildings in Drayton-street, the
shops with postless awnings ; the timber-
mills ; the modem Shire Chambers ; the
butter factory that made 2,868,2551 b. of
butter in 1948-49, worth £311,225 to
suppliers. The same impression is to be
had from the Kingaroy pictures—the
aerodrome, the memorial halls, the huge
modern pub, the even-larger hospital, the
peanut silos; or from the Murgon
pictures—the Town Hall and library, the
school, the Lamb-street shops. Set side
by side with pictures of the old huts, the
old, scarred roads, the homesteads of the
old stations, these pictures are a surpris-
ing commentary.
For the most part, the shires and town-
ships surveyed in turn repeat one another’s
stories. Some settlers got on well with
the blacks, others, like MacTaggart, of
Kilkivan, had his shepherds and hut-
keepers speared ; some stockriders joined
gold-rushes, others, like James Caulfield,
of Widgee, said, “I was paid to muster
Widgee stock and not chase gold” ; in
1856 Tan Zoon was paid £lO 7s. sd. for
shearing 1037 Booubyjan sheep; in the
great days of Boonara, which was bought
by the Sydney storekeeper, David Jones,
in the 1850’s, and has remained in the
family ever since, there were so many
station-outbuildings that one row of huts,
where the younger stockmen lived, was
known as “George-street”; Campbell,
a murderous aborigine, replaced in Kil-
kivan crime the gentler “Wild Scotsman”
and Donn of Nanango; Kingaroy’s
peanut silos also come in handy as an
aerial beacon; their peanut-shelling
machine shelled 500,0001 b. of nuts in
1924:
The [Kingaroy] silos (valued at £155,000)
have a total storage capacity of approxi-
mately 15,000 tons In 1946-47 46,000
acres in the South Burnett produced
46,026,184 pounds of nuts in the shell
Sixty per cent, of these nuts were grown
in Kingaroy Shire... .The Peanut Board
claims that a market exists in Australia for
30,000 to 35,000 tons of peanuts
Besides Mr. E. W. Easton’s “Economic
History” of the Shires, there is also Mr.
Murphy’s “Church History.” Of neces-
sity the complete work, with its sub-
divisions, its naming of every name that
can be remembered, is not easy reading.
It is in grave need of an index. But it
is a wonderful book in its profusion of
anecdotes, such as that which they say
happened when a Glenmore colt got into
August King’s property.
King didn’t mind, but, having decided
to brand his cleanskins, he suggested that
Bob Sexton, of Glenmore, should get
his colt back. Sexton was busy ; he sent
over his branding-irons, asking that King
should do the job. King agreed. The
Glenmore brand was “XXO.” King got
as far as “XO,” and then cursed his
assistant for his slowness in producing
the remaining iron. The assistant said he
couldn’t find it, whereupon King re-
leased the colt. “It’s Bob Sexton’s fault,”
he said, “if his colt is half-branded”; —
Bob Sexton left the colt incompletely
branded until its death to lend point to
his frequently-told story of August King
and the “bother hex.”
Reviewed Briefly.
The Story of Stratford-on-Avon : J. C.
Trewin (Staples). A quick run-through
from Shakspeare’s times to Tyrone Guth-
rie and Quayle, with one eye on the town
and the other on the theatre. Mr. Trewin
is a London dramatic critic and writes
very pleasantly about the Festivals he
has attended,
♦ * * *
Animal Facts and Fancies: Osmond
P. Breland (Faber). For nature-lovers
from all ages from nine to 90. It is a
collection of paragraphs dealing with the
oddities of nature and, if Australians
won’t be particularly surprised to learn
that there is a kangaroo which climbs
trees, the present reviewer, before reading
Mr, Breland, had never been able satis-
factorily to answer the question, “Is the
ground-hog a good weather prophet?”
* * * *
More Quizzes and Word Games: Jay
Bee (The World’s Work, Ltd.). One
prefers Finnegans Wake or Ezra Pound’s
Cantos in this category of literature; but
some, maybe, will get some fun out of
Jay Bee.
* * ♦ *
Disagreements: R. C. Churchill (Seeker
and Warburg). In spite of the combative
title and the forbidding subtitle, “A
Polemic on Culture in the English Demo-
cracy,” this is an amiable and very read-
able book in which, believing that English
culture is inseparable from democracy,
Mr. Churchill manages to disagree simul-
taneously with the Marxists and with
such Catholic philosophers as M. Mari-
tain. He does not believe in the “class-
war” and thinks that the writers of the
Left in the ’thirties were out of touch with
the mass of the people who, in England,
are essentially bourgeois.
* * * *
Gold Is Where You Find It: Henry C.
James (Harrap). Mr. James has the radio
script-writer’s love of intricate presenta-
tion ; thus his novel shows the old pros-
pector setting out in a truck to get more
specimens of the gold reef he has found
in the central Australian desert and, his
engine-cylinder cracking, setting out to
walk back again through that waterless
region ; he falls by the track and dreams.
Then his life proceeds past him for most
of the rest of the novel; his immigration
from Ireland, his early discovery of gold,
his return from the goldfield with a girl
journalist and an Adelaide company-
promoter, his translation to top-hat and
cutaway coat in Adelaide as gold-com-
pany shareholder, the cracking of the
gold-boom because he got rid of his
shares, his spending of £30,000 in a
country pub, his meeting again an Irish
girl who had loved him, and his return to
the fields. Then the action comes back to
its short conclusion. Only a slight slick-
ness in tone, and a sentimentalisation of
character, prevent the book from being a
very good one indeed ; the desert scenes
are excellent, the device by which the
boom was broken is apt, and the scenes
of the country bar-flies ridding the old
prospector of his money are sad, true and
funny. It is a book which should satisfy
a good many readers, though it fails to
satisfy critics.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 74
Across.
I—Disguises for swelled-headed bald
men and other important per-
sonages. (7)
4 —Keep mum below, but growl
nevertheless. (7)
7 The money of Neagle and
Karenina. (5)
8— Behavior to study on the canal. (7)
9 Taint contradicts it. (3)
11— Measure is eternity for the
unaspiring. (3)
12— rig bloom (anagram). (9)
13— Sought by punters, but it checks
squeaking. (3)
14— Just the weapon to hoot at yours
truly, but telephoned at last. (9)
18—Endure the coppers with scabies
where courageous armies, in bat-
tered retreat, can still fight. (4, 5)
21— Turn up with a bee in an inn. (3)
22 A willow returns the precipitous
tonic extracted from bamboo. (9)
24 A hundred like to turn the
pouch. (3)
25 Characteristic of Wednesday’s
child. (3)
26 Wind a man of Scotland shortlj.
0)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
27 Behave in a servile, flattering
manner like an alderman taking
French leave. (5)
28 — Give the volume an adverse re-
view, give it the bird. (7)
29 — Georgia plunders these silly fools.
(7)
Down.
1 — Imitate any X on Irving’s sleepy
place when annihilated. (6, 6)
2 Anybody has these much-feted
bigshots of criminal organisa-
tions. (9)
3 Haven’t the bowlers got you out
yet, Edward? (9)
4 Look after the alternative duck
in the Philippines. (7)
5 Customary. (5)
6 Pence get it to indicate the same
again. (5)
B—Pepper8—Pepper multiply b by b multi-
plied by b. (5)
10 —Tennis for two picks a row for
one. (6, 6)
15— Whale. (3)
16 — The beginning of the empire on
the end of America with 50
known only by experience in the
ripe claim. (9)
17— Morning conveyance runs over
100 with some fuss because of
the concealed attacking party. (9)
19— Have tea with us and biff a tuft
of grass. (7) , ,
20— Hurry the British fleet bowler for
South Australia. (5)
22 Time for music? (5)
23 When the crooner scores a duck
in a table-game. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 73.


“THE UNIT OF
yy
sir*
BATTER!
REIGN
SWi
yWP
■!->
■ ;x
Si®
3:®
5N
ts ; ;;vi\9
\
11
m
1M
jffssi
«aa
tv. «!•>;>
i
mm
m m m wm
. ?! i ,'•
■ ■ '{■■.
mm
■M‘. ••;
gjfi
BSS
>jr
y vM
m
mm
:»v:
iP
•Vi:
I »,
V-V-*;•;
ha
8?
AS USED BY N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
AND SUPPLIED EXCLUSIVELY
TO THE
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
—FOR CARS AND TRUCKS—
FOR
15th CONSECUTIVE YEAR.
Equipment on Radiola for
17 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR. TRUCK, TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER. ETC.
ƒds
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria :
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Western A ustralia:
NICHOLSONS, LIMITED,
Barrack Street, Perth; 3 Adelaide Street,
Fremantle; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON;
TASMANIAN RUBBER CO., LTD., HOBART.
Manufactured by
New Zealand .*
BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS, LTD.,
436 Broadway, Newmarket, AUCKLAND, 3. •
New Caledonia :
HAGEN FRERES, NOUMEA.
Fiji:
ELTRON ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO.,
SUVA.
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone; MA 6188 (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: B 6565, B 4448
