

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/ 9 VoL 71—No, 3684
Wednesday, September 20, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
No Finer Cathedral
in Western Europe
than Winchester
VX/’ INCHESTER. cathedral city and
~ county town of Hampshire, famed
for the story of her past, is situated
beside the River Itchen, 65 miles from
London. The ancient Britons had a
settlement here named Caer Gwent, and
this was followed by the Roman town
of Venta Belgarura, which, in turn, was
succeeded by the Saxon Winteceaster,
the capital of Wessex, in 519, Here, in
827, Egbert was crowned first king of all
England; The city was also the capital
of Alfred the Great (871-901) and many
of his successors, including Canute and
the Danish kings. In 1043 Edward the
Confessor was crowned here, and
William the Conqueror (1066-1087) made
the city a joint, capital with London and
was crowned in both—-an example fol-
lowed by several of his successors. In
1897 Winch est e r celebrated the
thousandth anniversary of its civic
institutions.
The chief glory of Winchester is its
massive Norman Cathedral, which rivals
Westminster and Canterbury in histori-
cal associations and is the shrine of a
long roil of kings and princes. This
magnificent edifice was planned by Bishop
Walkelin in 1079, but each succeeding
century until the seventeenth made its
own contribution to the present building,
which is a proud epitome of every period
of English architecture. Its nave
feet) is exceeded in length only by that
of St. Peter’s, in Rome (614 feet). The
Great Screen, illustrated here, is another
remarkable feature of the cathedral. It
dates from the fifteenth century and is
an outstanding example of fretted stone-
work. Nearby is a brass tablet and a
window commemorating Jane Austen,
who is buried wnthin the cathedral. Out-
side the West Door is a grave which
bears the following inscription:
Here sleeps in peace a Hampshire
Grenadier,
Who caught his death by drinking cold
small beer.
Soldiers be wise from his untimely fall.
And when ye’re hot drink Strong or none
at all.
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL
ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


Learn
Journalism
v at HOWF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
rtnnklet explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
My Name
My Addres ■
S.B. 150 AOE
The Red Page
Pioneers and Champagne,
Presumably Whitcombe and Tombs
have reprinted Lady Barker’s Station Life
in New Zealand because the province of
Canterbury is celebrating its centenary
this year; but the gay, graceful little
book, so vivid a picture of pioneering life
in Canterbury’s sparkling landscape of
tussocks, lakes, rivers and snowy moun-
tains, could also have been reprinted with
the intention of luring tourists and im-
migrants to the Dominion by the twofold
appeal of Lady Barker’s love for the
country and of the glorious scenery she
describes. On the grand scale, when
Lady Barker is staying at a neighboring
station, it is like this: —
The view from the sitting-room was
lovely; just beneath the window there was
a little lawn, as green as possible from the
spray with which the lake had washed it
yesterday; beyond this a low hedge, an
open meadow, a fringe of white pebbly
beach, and then a wide expanse of water
with one little island, and shut in gradually
from our view by spurs of hills running
down to the shore, sometimes in bold steep
cliffs, and again in gentle declivities, with
little strips of bush or scrub growing in
the steep gullies between them.
The lake extends some way beyond where
we lose sight of it, being twelve miles long
and four miles broad. A few yards from
the beach it is over six hundred feet deep.
Nothing but a painting could give you any
idea of the blue of sky and water that
morning; the violent wind of yesterday
seemed to have blown every cloud below
tire horizon, for I could not see the least
white film anywhere. Behind the lower
hills which surround the lake rises a
splendid snowy range; altogether you can-
not imagine a more enchanting prospect
than the one I stood and looked at.
And on the small scale, when Lady
Barker is taken for a picnic on the lake,
it is like this:
When the bowsprit touched the rata
branches, which drooped like a curtain into
the water, Mr. H. made a signal to lower
the mast, and, parting the thick, blossom-
covered foliage before us, with both hands,
the way the boat had on her sent us gently
through the screen of scarlet flowers and
glossy green leaves into such a lovely fairy
cove! Before us was a little white beach
of fine sparkling sand, against which the
water broke in tiny wavelets, and all
around a perfect bower of every variety
of fern and moss, kept green by streams
no thicker than a silver thread trickling
down here and there with a subdued
tinkling sound.
Possibly the publishers had both the
Canterbury centenary and the modern
tourist or immigrant in mind ; but the
best of all reasons for reprinting the
book is, simply, that it is on the way to
becoming a minor New Zealand classic:
a sort of companion-piece to Maning’s
Old New Zealand, not of equal weight
and without the special fascination of
Maning’s adventures among the Maoris,
but no less valuable as a picture of
manners and all the more charming when
you contrast its feminine and aristocratic
delicacy with Maning’s magnificent
robustness.
And, for all her femininity. Lady
Barker lived in her own way quite as
robust and adventurous a life as
Maning. if she didn’t have to wrestle
with a Maori chief on the first day she
stepped ashore in the new colony, she
was, at least, some time after her arrival,
memorably charged by a wild pig when
she was riding uphill along a narrow
track and when, like her husband, she
was armed with nothing more useful than
a stone:
As soon as he had disposed of both the
dogs, who lay howling piteously and
bleeding on the ground, the boar made at
full speed for the spur of a hill close by.
Helen could not realise the situation
at all. I tried to turn her, and so get out
of the infuriated brute’s way; but no,
she would press on to meet him and join
the other horses at the top of the hill.
I had very little control over her, for I
was so laden with whips and stones that
my hands were useless for the reins. I
knew I was in great danger, but at the
moment I could only think of my poor
pretty mare lamed for life, or even perhaps
killed on the spot.;..He made for poor
Helen’s near foreleg with his head well
down, and I could hear his teeth gnashing.
Just as he touched her with a prick from
his tusk like a stiletto and before he could
jerk his head back so as to rip the leg up,
I flung my small rock with all the strength
I possessed crash on his head The pig
was so stunned that he dropped on his
knees, and, before he could recover him-
self, Helen had turned round, still on her
hind legs, as on a pivot, and was plunging
and jumping madly down the hill.
Alert, good-humored* sensitive, full of
the spirit of delight, pious in the style of
the period, when church services were
quite frankly seen as a means of keeping
the shearers sober over the weekend,
Lady Barker was the sort of woman who,
in other circumstances, might have
written a Cranford or an Our Village;
or, perhaps, since she shows no evidence
of a talent for construction, and her
book, though as satisfying as any novel,
is only in the form of letters to a friend
or relative in England, might not have
written at all. But, as the wife of
a Mr. Frederick Napier Broome—he was
her second husband; wrote art and
literary criticism and Poems From New
Zealand and, made a K.C.M.G., governed
Western Australia from 1882 until 1890
—she was plunged into three years of
pioneering in Canterbury, and the new
world filled her with incessant wonder
and delight which forced itself on to
paper.
She knew tragedy that terribly
familiar tragedy of the early days both
in Australia and New Zealand —when her
child died from some “summer sickness”
that a modern clinic would cure in a day.
She very nearly starved to death, snowed-
in in her homestead while her husband
was away in Christchurch to bring sup-
plies, during the colossal snow-storm of
1867 during which sheep died by the
thousand —“half our flock and all our
lambs.” And always, whether she is
hunting wild pigs, burning-off the tus-
socks on distant slopes of the run, walk-
ing 22 miles in a day after wild cattle,
falling from her horse and riding home
in the dark with concussion, or riding
through rain and flooded creeks, or snow
and the cold winds from the Southern
Alps to visit distant neighbors, she is
amazing in her energy and her courage.
But it is neither the adventure stories
nor the occasional glimpses of less-
fortunate pioneers living their rough, wild,
lonely lives in remote glens of the moun-
tains and § lad get a slab of wild beef
as “a change from the eternal duck and
pigeon” that form the distinctive quality
of the book: which is, in a word, its
grace. Just as Ethel Anderson’s stories
of the early days in Sydney remind us
that life in New South Wales was not
entirely made up of the drinking of rum
and the lashing of convicts, so Lady
Barker, writing directly in the period, re-
minds us that the New Zealand pioneers
were not, as legend so often presents
them, dull, worthy fellows intent solely
on becoming a good example for modern
schoolchildren but, in the station life
Lady Barker portrays, were landed
aristocrats chiefly concerned with having
a good time. So similar in tone and
atmosphere is Lady Barker’s New Zea-
land to Ethel Anderson’s Sydney that
there are times when one hardly knows
which country is being described or which
author is writing:
The following is our receipt for killing
time at Ham:- After breakfast, take the last
Cornhill or Macmillan, put on a shady hat,
and sit or saunter by the riverside under
the trees, gather ing any very tempting peach
or apricot or plum or pear, until luncheon;
same thing until five o’clock tea; then
cross the river By a rustic bridge, ascend
some turf steps to a large terrace-like
meadow, sheltered from the north-west
winds by a thick belt of firs, bluegums and
poplars, and play croquet on turf as level
as a billiard-table until dinner. At these
games the cockatoo always assists, making
himself very busy, waddling after his
mistress all over the field, and climbing up
her mallet whenever he has an opportunity.
And that was pioneering! Maybe you
had to ride miles across the rivers and
the tussocks to visit your neighbors, but
when you got there you danced till you
heard in the dawn “the first awakening
of the myriads of bush birds; every
conceivable twitter and chatter and
chirrup”; and maybe there were thirty
thousand diggers toiling, drinking, fight-
ing and roughing it on the goldfields
around Hokitika, but, at the same time,
in Lady Barker’s world you picnicked
with “the gentlemen” in “a pretty, shel-
tered spot halfway up the hill among
some trees and ferns,” boiled your kettle
and your potatoes and put your cham-
pagne to cool in the ice-cold waters of
the mountain stream. It is a pretty pic-
ture ; not the whole story of pioneering,
but, so far as it goes, as true as it is
captivating.
Two Defectives,
One of Those Things: Peter Cheyney
(Collins). Another new Cheyney detec-
tive (these days Cheyney scruffs ’em and
leaves ’em) called O’Day repels the over-
tures of his partner’s wife, who tells her
husband, more in anger than in sorrow,
that she and O’Day have shared a hotel
bill at a simple country hostelry. This
causes pain to the partner, and then the
plot is complicated by Lauretta, whom
O’Day has been enjoined to guard by a
former United States secret servant —the
U.S.s.s., strangely enough, turns out (o
have been the true sharer of the bill at
the simple country hostelry. All-in-all,
it could be said that as the vigor of Mr.
Cheyney’s tough guys diminishes, the
intricacy of his plots increases.
Search for a Scientist: Charles L.
Leonard (Museum Press). In Pursuit in
Peru Mr. Leonard brought some new
people and a new scene to the detective
thriller; and he is still more close to
novelty and realism than the average
mystery-writer. In this story of Kil-
gerrin’s search for the old German
scientist-with-the-magic-formula among
the new-rich blackmarketeering gang of
cafe-proprietors and currency-racketeers
in Marseilles, there is plenty of shoot-
ing, some burglary, much mystery and a
beautiful cafe-singer.
FORTUNATE MAHONY.
Since Henry Handel Richardson at last
killed him off, Richard Mahony has never
looked back ; and is now, of course, an
Australian immortal. It is a long while
since anybody dared to say, as Arthur
Adams did on the Red Page in 1917,
wickedly reviewing the first volume of the
great trilogy, it was “merely a dull
chronicle written, apparently, by a retired
grocer.”
Briefly checking on Adams, inciden-
tally, after seeing this piece of irreverence
quoted in Nettie Palmer’s Henry Handel
Richardson (Angus and Robertson), the
present reviewer couldn’t find him saying
precisely that. But he was lurking in the
1917 file shamelessly awarding The
Fortunes of Richard Mahony “first-prize
for longwindedness” ; and if he dared to
say that he would say anything.
There was some excuse for Adams,
even if he had been talking about the
whole trilogy instead of judging on the
first volume; and, in fact, Nettie Palmer
seems to quote him more in exactitude
than in anger: she is trying to show how
the book was received in its day. It is
longwinded; very. Even, when the
astonishing cliches are sprinkled about
a page, there are times when it could
reasonably be suspected to be the work
of a retired grocer. And, beyond that, it
is a great revelation of the agony of the
human spirit; a single stroke of genius
in the portrayal of Richard Mahony,
based on Henry Handel Richardson’s
father.
And if Henry Handel Richardson—she
died in 1946 —is fortunate in having
soared beyond the irreverence of contem-
poraries, she is doubly fortunate in hav-
ing her work and her personality fall into
the capable hands of Nettie Palmer; for
this new study, part biography and part
criticism, is at once so sympathetic and
so exact that neither the novelist herself
nor the most critical reader could reason-
ably ask for a better. It has everything
to give it enduring life as a standard
book of reference.
In the first place, it is very well written.
In fact, when she puts the whole life and
color of the goldfields into a paragraph,
Nettie Palmer shows far more feeling for
the period than Henry Handel Richardson
ever did:
Lucky diggers shoeing their horses with
golden shoes, aristocrats (like Lord Salis-
bury, the future Prime Minister of Britain)
working cheek-by-jowl with ex-convicts,
nuggets instead of bouquets being showered
on visiting performers of Hamlet; crowds
taking out the horses from the coach that
carried Lola Montez, mistress of a Bavarian
king, and hauling her triumphantly through
the streets. Then there were the bush-
rangers waiting in the timbered ranges to
stick up the gold escort.
In the second place—or maybe this
should have been put first —Nettie Palmer
is a woman of extraordinarily wide
culture. The Red Page has said this
before, reviewing her privately-published
book of reminiscences, Fourteen Years,
and it should be said again now, for you
do not meet every day in this country a
woman, or a man either—most of us are
still mentally living on the goldfields—
who can talk about Maurice Guest,
Somerset Maugham, Tolstoy and Aris-
totle in the one breath;
In spite of some uncertainty about its
direction in the beginning, Maurice Guest
is a great novel, “great,” as Mr. Somerset
Maugham has said, “in the way the novels
of Tolstoy are great.” It has nearly all
the classic qualities. First, a powerful
theme, never really lost sight of, a theme
so convincingly developed that the climax
seems inevitable and foreseen, like that of
some standard tale in Greek tragedy. Then
it has (what many fine novels in English
lack) a superb narrative flow. This has
made possible the inclusion of countless
small but significant and brilliant episodes
and characters (like the “continual slight
novelty” praised in the Poetics of Aristotle)
so that the book, as a whole, has a varied
richness. Page after page can be re-read
for itself, as behind each page one feels a
mind of great power and integrity. The
attitude to life is robust; nothing is evaded
that might illuminate the theme.
Thirdly, Nettie Palmer is an excel-
lent critic, lucid and cool. For all
her intense admiration for Henry Handel
Richardson she is never led into over-
estimation of her achievements ; and, as
the appreciation of Maurice Guest shows
how firm she can be in praise, so there
are many occasions during hfer analysis of
The Fortunes of Richard Mahony when
she finds the faults which any dispas-
sionate reader, even if he doesn’t go as
far as Arthur Adams, must come up
against; that the minor characters are
too colorless ; that the period atmosphere
has “the dusty reality of newspapers and
records rather than that of the imagina-
tion” (how well that is said!); even that
H is Haary Handel Richardson herself,
quite as much as Richard Mahony, who
is out of sympathy with Australia:
It is clear that Henry Handel Richardson
considered this focusing of the scene to
Mahony’s vision as necessary to her theme,
namely, Mahony’s inability as a fastidious,
highly-strung, self-absorbed man to adapt
himself to the hurly-burly of a new demo-
cratic world; and in order to keep the
dramatic balance, to bring out Mahony’s
real qualities, she had to present his sur-
roundings, including his human surround-
ings, in as unfavorable a light as possible.
Perhaps, after all, this accorded with her
°J vr * -inner sympathies. Flaubert has said
or Madame Bovary, “C’est mot” It was
easy for Henry Handel Richardson to
identify herself with Mahony.
Finally, Nettie Palmer knew Henry
Handel Richardson and corresponded
with her, so that the biographical parts
of the book are both authentic and fresh:
or as fresh as possible considering the
novelist’s somewhat cold and aloof per-
sonality, keeping people “at a distance,”
shutting herself in her room, writ-
ing—a formidable person in Nettie
Palmer’s brilliant pen-portrait of her.
Among the biographical material are
some letters now printed for the first
time, in which we find Nettie Palmer
warm - heartedly introducing Henry
Handel Richardson to Australian litera-
ture (which apparently she had attacked
without knowing very much about it) so
that there is some guarded praise from
the novelist for Such Is Life, Brent of
Bin Bin, Coonardoo and The Passage.
One letter contains Henry Handel Rich-
ardson’s own firm—and very sound—
views on the art of the novel:
Interesting as the experiments are that
are being made today in the novel I never
cease to believe that character-drawing is
its main end and object, the conflict of
personalities its drama. What makes me
sure I am right in this is that only those
books endure whose figures are real and
intense enough to step out of the covers
and lead their own lives —Emma Bovary,
Becky Sharp, Anna Karenina.
And, Henry Handel Richardson might
have added, Richard Mahony.
In the whole of this admirable study
there is only one point at which Nettie
Palmer seems to have gone astray, and
that is in her definition of “flat”
characters as “people who are sometimes
amusing caricatures, sometimes active
participants in the drama, though revealed
only through their own actions, not
through their own view of themselves.”
This leads to a couple of confusing para-
graphs in which it is maintained that the
minor characters of Tom Jones are “flat”
and the central interest is in Tom him-
self, and that a similar principle of con-
struction is traditional in the English
novels of the 19th century,
u present reviewer would define a
flat character as essentially negative,
colorless, unreal, mechanical; and from
that point of view the English tradition,
from the insipid heroes and heroines of
Scott to the insipid heroes and heroines
of Dickens, is seen as one in which the
central characters are flat and the minor
characters—the Dominie Sampsons, the
Molly Seagrims and the Sarah Gamps—
are fully and richly alive “in the round.”
Consequently, though one can agree
with Nettie Palmer when she says that in
The Fortunes of Richard Mahony Henry
Handel Richardson turned away from the
Continental method of Maurice Guest,
in which all the characters are seen
equally “from a distance,” one cannot
agree that what the novelist turned to was
“some of the conventions of the English
mid-Victorian novel.” If she had done
that, Purdy, Mary and the rest of her
nonentities would have been vigorously
alive, and Richard Mahony but a
shadow.
She turned, simply, to the portrayal of
the one man, Richard Mahony, seen in
the one deep flash of genius. In a more
merciful writer, the result might have
been a long short-story in the form of
Conrad’s Falk or Heart of Darkness;
for, except that size has its own impres-
siveness, and that a deep sad music comes
out of repetition, that is essentially what
lives in the giant bulk of the trilogy.


! 3
3x; ;; 3
IIL
; wt/B • I MBittiHi
ill| 11 iBMI
: LA lli 1 - %W¥£t
m ■ Vk :■ .
' ;, ' v '-‘<-.,.. 4 : - ■ ]|||||':'
m wHMI
■
- 1
IHI
II
(MM
•--•••••
■**♦«**
J
;:: 3 ;: ;
■
iJ^
»
.
tvi
i
W
¥x
■ ■
I
' &
... :
m
%
HI
EJ
■o
m
s—
ilii
. m
/
I
: ' B
>v
,#sk
ii*
i
~3
I«i3*
■■l
I
ill 111
‘ r
i
I
i i
P;
*
iy’x’:'
II
m
IBSi W^
»
i«
11
ei
i i
n
■
33
: ;
13
n
■I
IM-
i|n|
V ■ ; :'• ,: v
■IP 1 "
i
....
m I
-,i
H *\~
i
■> s
I *
-3 3
■
I
m
$ '? >,
iTTV. -V V
tMi
.. \
■■■■■■
W&KMm
<: <■ ■ ■ I -
i/ L ' -
Hi. p
■ iSS3 / v < H
»r
X • I
L’ 5 ** ’
■ . »<V
MB.V/Jtk'WM I i '
3^
■H
MS s
: :
#3
;■:.•••
#3
y
■ y
; " m
Sfl
■
■r
i ■ ■■::
%
■ f *■--■•
'3 '<
v
IP
ilMi
K
Hi
sa
m
L
■
■x •■'■■■;.
■ ■ ■>, .’:■
m
m
m
mm
4
WTmm
'Am
m
iilil
■ ■.. / :
-
■
■M
■:
’ .
%3
y ’ .••
:
I
■■' :
m
\
■ -i. ■
#i;i -i#' 1 '
i: V. #•
XT
X
A Portable
Wardrobe
... to keep your travel clothes neat!
When you travel, the cases that
keep your clothes "as neat as new'' will be
your most helpful companions.
A. —"Airway" Canvas Robe Case. Leather
binding. Carries twelve ladies' frocks. £l7.
B. —"Airway" Hat Case. A matching case,
moire lined, inside pocket. 18in. £B/2/-.
C. —"Isovac" Flask, Red, Blue,
Green, 2pt. Price, 19/6.
D.—Man's Suit Case of top-grain
cowhide, steel frame, Eng. locks. 24in.,
£6/6/9; 26in., £6/17/3; 28in., £7/7/9.
E.—Leather Weekend Case.
Genuine hide with steel frame
and English locks.
20in., 90/9; 22in. # 99/9.
F.—Vctl Pack. Carries 3
men's suits. Pockets tor
shirts, shoes, etc. £l4/10/-.
G.—Club Bag, on a leather-
covered frame, cloth lined.
20in. size. £5/6/3.
1
From left.
"Conway" Travel Rug, priced at 44/6
Fringed ends, in check designs. Available in colours
of Fawn, Brown, Grey and Blue. Size 70in. x 54in.
"Woodland" Travel Rug, priced at 66/3
Fringed ends, plain colours of Blue, Tan and Green.
Australian made, light in weight. Size 72in. x 60in.
English "Jaeger" Travel Rug, priced at 89/3
Soft brushed wool, fringed ends. Green and Gold,
Brown and Gold, Brown and Red. Size 70in. x 58in..
"Jaeger" Travel Rug, priced at £9/7/9
Pure Merino wool, soft finish. Plain one side, pattern
the other. Navy, Maroon, Fawn, Green. 70in. x 58in.
.suapjog toop»
..ONISUUHAQY NigHiflUL
ANTHONY HORDERNS' TRAVEL GOODS DEPT.—GROUND FLOOR. PITT STREET. 'PHONE: M 2401, DAY OR NIGHT; BOX 2712 C. G.P.0.. SYDNEY


s».
r-c.
S'-
%■
m
-Vli
5£
Founded in 1920
The Commonwealth Oil
Refineries Limited
has now served Australia
in Peace and War
throughout 30 years
of Growth and Progress.
AT YOUR SERVICE
FROM COAST TO COAST
Ocean Terminals at FREMANTLE, ADELAIDE, PORT PIRIE,
MELBOURNE, HOBART, PORT KEMBLA, SYDNEY,
NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, DARWIN.
Refinery - LAVERTON, VICTORIA.
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
(Commonwealth Government and Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
A GREAT BRITISH-AUSTRAUAN ENTERPRISE
C76/242Q


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3684
Wednesday, September 20, 1950
llbfllPOSS
@IKU£>V
THE SPECIAL CUSTOMER.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams •
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
MR. MENZIES'S HAND.
Within a very few hours of Parliament’s
meeting, a week hence, whether or not
“Labor” means to pull together with the
rest of Australia in an effort to lift the
country out of military and economic
insecurity should be made clear. The
job will be infinitely harder and more
costly if it is met with obstruction from
the Chifley party in Parliament and
organised Socialist resistance in the elec-
torates. Mr. Menzies has emphasised
that the job must be* done at any cost
and quickly.
Preparations in Britain and the United
States to put those countries on a total-
war footing have sharply illustrated the
urgency of Mr. Menzies’s warnings,
both while abroad and since his return.
There is no misinterpreting them. Presi-
dent Truman and Mr. Attlee have been
warning their peoples to get ready. The
summons is to get ready not merely for
action but for combined action. The
American picture last week:
President Truman signed Congress legis-
lation giving him virtually war-time
discretionary controls over the nation’s
economy—wages, prices, rationing, invest-
ments. He oroadcast to the nation that it
is entering a period when defence expendi-
ture will be doubled and manpower called
up as necessary for the armed services, and
that in consequence —
(1) Industry will be directed in the first
place to output of fighting materials and
equipment;
(2) Extra taxation will have to be raised
to pay for these;
(3) Output of civilian consumer-goods
will be reduced and inflation must be
prevented.
The new National Production Agency was
installed to act compulsorily under heading
(3) if voluntary co-operation should fail.
With task (1) are foreshadowed regula-
tions to make hoarding of certain com-
modities illegal and to restrict exports to
Soviet-bloc countries of goods and materials
essential for war.
U.S. Government agencies were authorised
to use emergency defence powers.
In Britain Parliament, summoned a
month in advance of schedule, heard
Prime Minister Attlee announce last week
decisions to:
Extend the conscription term for Army
service to two years.
Double the strength of the Army.
Divert another 250,000 workers to arms
production.
Mr. Attlee said production must be in-
creased and wages held at present levels to
avoid “increased danger of inflation.”
Previously Mr. Attlee told his Trade
Union Congress at Brighton :
The diversion of labor and resources
from peace production to munitions of
war, and the retention of more men in the
fighting services, must have adverse effect
on the amount of goods and services avail-
able to the community for maintaining our
standard of life.
Increased production and productivity, a
fuller use of the capital equipment of the
country [that is, longer working-hours] and
greater co-operation between workers can
to a large extent offset these adverse con-
sequences .... We shall do our utmost to
see that these sacrifices are fairly borne.
People will be giving up leisure and
some hoped-for amenities.
I ask you all to regard any alteration in
your working conditions as your contribu-
tion to ensuring the safety of the nation.
The danger of an inflationary spiral is
increased by the additional expenditure
which we have been obliged to undertake.
Not the least important part of Mr.
Attlee’s statement to the Commons last
week was the passage in which he said
that “our full co-operation with the
United States and Canada is essential.”
Speaking in Melbourne and Sydney, Mr.
Menzies foreshadowed his appeal to Aus-
tralians for an all-out national effort in
similar preparation to meet the “dark
dangers” discerned not only by himself
while abroad, but also by Government
leaders in the lands he visited.
Militarily the country must have forces
ready for immediate action. This prepara-
tion is essential, and will make a further
call on present restricted manpower
resources to reinforce the armed services.
This is going to have its effect on the
economy, on development and on the
prices level unless we have immeasurably
greater production than at any time in the
past five years. We must also bring in
goods from other countries.
He said he would shortly tell the people
exactly what they would be asked to do,
and would look for instant support. They
would be expected, he said, to do much
more than they are doing now.
The Korean incident is not going to be
over in a few weeks. Where is the next
place going to be? There is going to be a
next place. No one in the world, outside
another country, knows which is the next
place marked for action It is our duty
to be ready to the moderate extent to which
any country must be ready.
From this general review several
features become plain:
That, although the leaders of the
English-speaking countries, agreed as
they are upon general policy, refer only
to preparations for war, war has
actually begun—in Korea —and mem-
bers of their armed sendees are fighting
there against a foe supported politically
and materially, if not in the full sense
militarily, by the only Power which
(in Mr. Menzies’s words) knows where
the next act of aggression will take
place.
That the potential enemy is already
operating, through the Communist
party, within these same countries
(including our own), which have been
compelled by the menace represented
in Russia’s vast rearmament and
aggressive actions to prepare for ulti-
mate recourse to open war from that
quarter.
The first objective with which Mr.
Menzies is obviously concerned is to
bring the Australian people as a whole
to understand the cause of the unpleasant
demands his Government must make
upon them. If, after the Opposition-
leaders’ experience in office of the
impact of world events, they do not
comprehend completely the necessity for
the national effort Mr, Menzies is about
to call for, then they are unfit to remain
in Parliament. Either they must offer
the same full co-operation -that Opposi-
tion parties have offered to the Socialist
Government in Britain, or they will con-
demn themselves as aiding the country’s
enemies—and not only this country’s but
Britain’s and America’s too.
To date the “Labor” line has been to
embarrass the Government, to obstruct
its legislation in the Senate and to call
for price-controls to beat inflation. No
change in this attitude is seen from study
of Mr. McGirr of N.S.W. Nor in Dr.
Evatt, who clamors for still more expen-
diture of non-existent revenue in “free”
medicines for everybody. Nor in Mr.
Monk of the A.C.T.U., who resists sug-
gestions of boycotting high-priced goods
because that “would be doing unionists
out of jobs.” Nor in every “Labor” voice
(not so many now) howling for continued
rejection of the Communist-party Dis-
solution Bill. As for the “Labor”
demand for price-controls, those respon-
sible may get them under the Govern-
ment’s defence powers if the war-shadows
deepen, but they will be controls which
put a ceiling to wages as well as to all
other prices, for costs of labor cannot
be differentiated from other costs.
The Commonwealth’s policy in this
twilight between peace and war is not
entirely of this Government’s —or any
other possible Government’s —selection.
Australians may have been uncertain and
indifferent about what membership of
U.N.O. might mean in times of stress ;
they know now. Their naval, military
and air fbrees are engaged in war in
Korea in the cause of upholding what
U.N.O. (however inadequately) stands
for. It is true also —leaving U.N.O.
aside —that Australians are fighting
because the only Power which can bring
effective help to Australia —should we
be assailed —wanted (without soliciting it)
our help, and because Australia is part
of (and partner in) that democratic defen-
sive front in the Pacific which is now
under attack in a quarter selected by the
only aggressive Power which can destroy
world peace.
For the cutting of constitutional knots,
if that be necessary, Mr. Menzies in the
present situation is not without resources,
especially if Parliament decides that the
country’s economy must forthwith be
geared (as Mr. Chifley would say) to a
total-war footing. If “Labor,” through
the Senate, should resist that course also
from a desire to force an election, then it
will be asking not for defeat but -for
obliteration.
Cry From the North.
During the Premiers’ Conference
Queensland’s Premier, Mr. Hanlon, be-
came clamant in his demand for the de-
velopment of population in the North as
a measure of defence.
If there were population on a sufficient
scale in the North, Mr. Hanlon’s party, of
course, would be opposed to its taking
any part in defence except at its own
sweet will, but that fact may be laid aside
for future consideration. At present the
crux of the matter is that after 35 years
of “Labor” government (with one short
break in the depression years), Queens-
land, the strategic area of defence, is
becoming emptier except in already-
crowded and pampered corners. This in
the face of the fact that at the beginning
of “Labor’s” reign the Ryan-Theodore
combination was convinced that it had
the recipe which would send population
eagerly seeking empty spaces and produce
a countryside full of contented small
settlers
In June, 1947, Queensland’s 670,000
square miles held 1,106,269 persons, and
of these 1,029,685 lived on 176,584 square
miles of the State and another 500,000
square miles carried 67,406.
The drift in Queensland is from the
land, and it is almost universal. In
southern Queensland the increase in
population of the Moreton district, which
covers only 8516 square miles, between
the census in 1933 and that of 1947, was
125,000, most of the increase being in
Brisbane and Ipswich and fatted and
fashionable seaside resorts which produce
nothing but sunburn.
In the two remaining south-eastern
districts, the rich Maryborough and
Darling Downs areas, the total increase
was only about 18,000 in a region more
than five times as big as Moreton —rich
dairying, wheat, fruit and sugar country,
much of it unsurpassed in the world.
Even this almost-stagnant increase does
not tell the true depressing story. Rich
lucerne towns like Boonah, only 50 miles
from the capital, Esk, Laidley, Crow’s
Nest and more were shown to be in
decline. On the Darling Downs only a
handful of towns and cities showed any
progress. Shires noted for their produce
and their stock, the very heart of the
countryside—Allora, Cambooya, Clifton,
Glengallan—were all going down. In
the Maryborough division, with one or
two exceptions, only industrial munici-
palities developed more people in the
course of 15 years. There were *l3
municipal areas out of 22, representing
the great bulk of the district, in which
there was falling-off. The same applies in
coastal central Queensland —seven areas
out of 13 have been on the downward
track. The same again in the rich far-
north coast —in the Townsville area
municipal divisions covering 3i8,080
square miles out of the district’s 40,156
square miles showed loss of population.
The same is also true of Cairns.
When one comes to consideration of
the west and the northern outback, that
which is alarming* in the coastal regions
becomes disastrous. The key Cape
York Peninsula, the size of England and
Wales, held 2078 people in June, 1947.
There had been a decline of over 30 per
cent, since the previous census.
In south-western Queensland Roma
(34,835 square miles) has a popu-
lation of less than one person to
every two square miles. Only one shire
in this district showed an increase—Roma
itself (30 square miles), which built up
its 1933 population of 3689 by 111. The
remaining 34,800 square miles of the
district lost 1000 out of its 16,000 people.
The South-western Division saw a
dwindling of 700 people out of its 12,225
in 1933, living on 90,000 square miles of
country.
The central-west used to be acknow-
ledged the richest of the Queensland wool
districts. It is the main artesian area. It
was the area on which early “Labor”
Governments pounced with a cry of
envious destructiveness —the realm of the
fatted capitalists whom the Ryans and
the Theodores and their successors on
the Queensland Treasury benches have
aimed to wipe out in favor of myriads
of smiling farm-owners, all regulated,
controlled, subsidised and socialised, their
pens humming as they fill in the heaps
of forms so necessary to “Labor’s” con-
ception of democracy. Famous stations
like Isis Downs and Alice Downs were
carved up with glee and balloted for,
being won like prizes in the lottery and
worth as much in speculative exchange
in the days just after World War I.
But the results have been painfully dis-
appointing. The fide is running the wrong
way everywhere. Every shire save one,
Belyando in the central-west, including
Longreach, Blackall, Win ton and
Hughenden, has lost population. Yet
these have everything which the poli-
ticians of a generation ago believed would
make for population —railways, aerial
services, educational facilities far above
the local ability to pay, good hospitals
and wage scales for workers which would
break the back of any community.
With this happening in one of the
most productive areas of its type in Aus-
tralia (though subject to flood and
periodical drought), it is no wonder that
the farther north-west of Queensland is
so stripped of population that it can
scarcely be called populated at all, even
allowing for Motint Isa. It is almost safe
to say that before the white men came
there was a greater population than there
is today. Diamantina’s 36,800 square
miles carried only 214, including 44
women, in 1947, Winton shire’s 2807 had
shrunk to 2496 in a decade and a half
over a countryside nearly as large as
Tasmania.
A Chinese scientific visitor, Dr. H. W.
Li, who traversed the North as a mem-
ber of a sugar congress a few days ago,
pointed out that along 1000 miles of the
north coast there was “monoculture,”
though bn every farm there was more
land than could be used for sugar culture
because of the specific limitation of pro-
duction under official regulation. Given
labor, he said, there was an excellent
chance of establishing other industries
which would “further enrich these fertile
areas”—the conditions, for instance, were
right for the growing of rice to fill all
Australia’s own requirements and still
leave plenty for export, while the Com-
monwealth, by using these regions, could
make it self-sufficient in jute,
The same is true of the rest of the
North—every region is devoted to wool,
beef, sugar, dairying or some other single
industry. There is scarcely any area in
Queensland which would not starve to
death if cut off from the rest of the
country because the motto of all is
nothing but the most profitable,” a
policy which the Government encourages.
All Government policy at present, both
Federal and State, tends to accentuate
the present drift.
So far have matters gone that it seems
almost impossible to right the present
scarcity of country men from among
the native population. There is,
however, something to be hoped from
free-flowing immigration if it is
properly directed. At present many
European immigrants have abundant
capital, which they use to inflate the price
of Sydney and Melbourne properties
through competition, and to establish
luxury industries and build up the more
exotic frivolities of the great wens,
Possibly by basing immigration on a
regional scheme designed to build up
individual districts to which the new-
comers would proceed on arrival under
agreement, and in which they would stay
for a period of years anchored to the
land, something might be done to stop
the rot. There is nothing new or impos-
sible in it. It is basically the plan on
which Queensland and some of its most
prosperous districts, such as those in
which the Germans and Italians were
lodged, were settled. But it would be
easier if there were a dozen new States
along the east of Australia, each con-
trolling its own local destiny and armed
with the machinery „ to counter the
drawing-power of the great cities and
their demagogic politicians.
Passing the Buck.
In times of economic crisis there is in-
variably a tendency to pass the buck.
This was so during the depression of the
nineteen-thirties. Not only did politicians
of the J. T. Lang and Eddie Ward type
try to confuse the issue in people’s minds
by blaming “the bondholders,” “the capi-
talists,” etc., for the depression, absolv-
ing Labor completely; there were many
people who sought to blame the depres-
sion upon impersonal things only—on
the gold standard, on credit policy, on a
fundamental shortage of consumer spend-
ing-power (hence Major Douglas’s
A + ■$ theorem) —even on sunspots.
A proportion of the people were never
fond of facing real issues, which at that
time included a reluctance.on the part of
all sections to meet each other half-way
in temporary sacrifices needed to bring
men, materials and money actively to-
gether in order to get employment, trade
and industry moving vigorously again.
When World War II came not only
was there a reluctance on the part of
many people to pay war-time rates of
income tax; the Socialist Government
met too large a part of war’s cost by the
issue of central-bank credit. This policy
has passed the buck to the present period
in the form of intensified post-war
inflation. .
Now the country is in the grip ot a
vicious form of inflation. Its roots trace
back into war-time disruption of industry,
finance and trade-union morale, with
Communist sabotage and Socialist vote-
buying in post-war years compounding
factors. , A
There is the same popular tendency to
pass the buck, to find an easy way out.
But realities cannot be ignored. Com-
munism must be dealt with, and there
must be an increase in per-capita pro-
duction of essential goods and raw
materials, more especially of coal And
all must recognise the principle of a tair
day’s work for fair pay. This is no
time for loafing or sponging.
Because of political racketeering, past
calamities which should bave brough
the people closer together have tended
to divide them. We must leam to ac-
cept democracy’s responsibilities as well
as its privileges.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Wool-tax Plan.
To begin with, it is necessary to get
clearly in mind what Sir Douglas Copland
proposed in his wool-tax plan. He has
suggested a 33} p.c. export tax on the
proceeds of wool sales, two-thirds of
which “could be placed to the credit of
woolgrowers themselves, just as are the
proceeds of the new 7} p.c. levy on wool,
which would not then be required. It
would be necessary to place such a fund
under the control of trustees, some of
whom would be representatives of the
growers themselves. In this case the
growers would get the best of both
worlds. They would avoid paying high
income tax on the amount taken by the
export tax, and would have a cushion on
which to rest should lean years return,”
The other third, Professor Copland sug-
gests, “could be partly used to subsidise
the domestic price of wool and so keep
down the price of clothing,” and partly
used “in ways designed to promote the
long-term interests of the wool industry”
as well as the rest of the community.
If overseas buyers intend to pay no
more than current cost of Australian
wool, a 331, p.c. export tax would imply
prices at auction equal to three-quarters
of present prices.
Professor Copland is squarely opposed
to up-valuation of the Australian pound,
claiming that its effect “would fall on
the just and the unjust alike” —a phrase
which may not precisely endear himself
to the woolgrower any more than his
declaration that, if he accepted the export-
tax proposal, “the woolgrower may take
comfort from the fact that for once he
can reconcile public duty and private
interest.” The woolgrower, on the whole,
has been a good citizen, and stands apart
from the egregious elements in our
rightly-criticised “milk-bar economy.”
The Copland wool-tax plan has met
with solid opposition from the pastoral
industry, many of the members of which
favor an appreciated pound, though, as a
body, probably plumping for things as
they are.
On the wool-tax plan, C. M. Williams,
president of the Graziers’ Association of
N S. Wales, has spoken as follows:
There has been a certain tenor in the
Press lately calculated to raise the wool-
grower of this country to the status of a
public enemy, responsible for currency
inflation. The belief is growing that all
that is necessary to stem the inflationary
bde is to deprive the woqlgrower of a third
of his income. The attitude is epitomised
m the comment of Sir Douglas Copland
that, if his plan for a 33} p.c. export tax
on wool is adopted, the woolgrower could
“for once” reconcile his public duty with
his private interest.
The woolgrower has done nothing more
than submit his wool to public auction
and taken what it fetches on the open
world market. He has done that through-
out the history of his industry, and accepted
the good with the bad. When wool was
Bd. a pound he received no subsidy; when
it is 64d. he does not expect to have his
income taken away from him, except
through the normal channels of taxation.
In fact, his proceeds from the recent
increase in wool prices will be largely
absorbed by the Treasury through income
tax, a fact that is going to help the Com-
monwealth to present a Budget so much
the less likely to impose burdens on the
community at large
It is extremely doubtful whether Professor
Copland’s sectional tax would, having
regard to its effect upon the woolgrower’s
income tax and the high cost he has to
pay for essentials not available on the
Australian market, reduce the woolgrower’s
spending-power on mere consumption
goods very much. Unless the reduction of
woolgrower’s spending-power consequent on
the professor’s tax goes right through the
community to reduce the spending-power
of the workers and everyone else, it can
achieve nothing.
In any event, the concentration on
reduction of demand as a means of curing
inflation is defeatist in the extreme. The
basic cause of inflation is not surplus
money but insufficiency of goods. Unless
that problem is efficiently tackled and
solved we are only playing with the issue.
In rejecting the Copland wool-tax plan
it seems that many graziers would, in the
long run, be electing to receive a smaller
net income from their present clip, since
it is suggested that, of the amount levied,
only 6s. Bd. in the £ of it would be com-
pletely lost to the woolgrower, the other
13s. 4d. of each £ being carried forward
in a fund for the grower’s benefit in years
when prices might not be so good, or, if
they were, when the clip might not be so
heavy or costs might be higher and the
income-tax rate lower. And no wool-
grower netting £5OOO a year would be
taxed at present at a rate so low as
6s. Bd. in the £.
In view of this, it would appear that
the chief grower objection to the Cop-
land plan is that it threatens to bring a
form of centralised bureaucratic dictation
to an industry which has stood on its own
economic feet since it had its beginnings.
And there is no knowing what arbitrary
changes might be made in the Copland
formula by other hands at other times.
Unfortunately Australian Governments
have a bad record in the matter of taxes
levied for a specific purpose—witness
“unemployed - relief” tax that was
“abolished” by the McKell Government
by converting it into ordinary income
tax —though Commonwealth Administra-
tions have had a better record in this
respect than some of the States. But
even Canberra is reluctant to use petrol-
tax revenue to the full in the manner in
which it is most obviously needed, and
that is in maintaining existing highways
(now in a shocking condition in some
States) and building others.
Mr. Williams, of the N.S.W. Graziers’
Association, is perfectly right when he
says that the basic cause of inflation in
Australia is insufficiency of goods. And
insofar as Professor. Copland’s argument
that up-valuation of the £ would do little
to check inflation is sound, then argument
to the effect that the wool tax would
check inflation is unsound. It should not
be forgotten that the woolgrower in his
spendings is more of an investor than
a consumer. On the other hand, any
fund established by the wool tax would
need to be completely “sterilised” in
order to have anti-inflationary virtues.
It should not be used even to buy Com-
monwealth bonds.
It seems to have become unpopular in
certain high quarters to stress the funda-
mental fact that the chief cause of infla-
tion in Australia today is lack of indus-
trial production in relation to our high
“full-employment” payroll. Inadequate
supplies of coal and steel are still the
chief weaknesses in our fight against in-
flation. And R. D. Bakewell, chairman
of the Australian Wool Growers’
Council, had some justice for his con-
tention last week that “it is manifestly
unfair to single out woolgrowers to sub-
sidise the 40-hoqr week and other brakes
on production.”
Chifley's Last Fling.
Mr. Chifley’s second name ought to be
Bourbon. Like the Bourbons, he learns
nothing and forgets nothing. The 1949
coal strike did not register anything with
him, nor did the elections last Decem-
ber. He appears to think that the elec-
tors meant “Yes” when they voted “No”
to his 1948 prices referendum. The
present call to all free peoples for con-
certed preparation to fight, rather than
appease, any further Soviet aggressive de-
mands conveys nothing to him.
His speech in Adelaide last week can
only mean that he intends to continue
(from the Senate) obstructing Govern-
ment legislation in order to force a
double-dissolution. A Victorian A.L.P.
delegation met him subsequently at
Essendon to tell him the course would,
in their view, be suicidal, and “Labor’s”
favorite “capitalist Press” organ, the
Melbourne “Age,” has warned him that
his demand for a prices referendum is
fallacious, that “the people cannot vote
their way out of inflation,” and that
effective counter-measures cannot rest
with Government action alone,
Mr. Chifley did not wait to hear Cau-
cus views. From Adelaide he tells Cau-
cus, in , effect, that while he remains
leader the order shall be socialisation
through prices-control, “the class-war”
rejection of the anti-Communist Bill,
obstruction of all Government legisla-
tion till the Government goes to the
country and treat the menace of Russian
armament against the free nations as
Menzies propaganda. These are his
words:
The Menzies Government is the most
inept this country has ever known. It is
incapable of making up its mind about
anything. [Mr. Menzies promptly answered
that one.]
The people were deluded by the Liberal
and Country parties in 1948 into rejecting
the prices referendum. No attempt to
stabilise the position will be successful
unless the people hand that power to the
Federal Government. It is a myth that
appreciation of the Australian pound will
cure the inflationary trend.
The Government are whining that because
of the country’s defence needs they ate
unable to carry out their promises. [The
Government are whining nothing of the
sort.] Certain people want Australia to be
placed on a complete war footing. But the
greatest defence Australia could have would
be a fully populated country and full
development of our national resources [not,
Mr. Richard Murdoch reminds us, pro-
nounced like “race’orses.”]
Mr. Bourbon Chifley admits that in-
flated prices the world over make the
task harder, and says he knew this while
he was in power. Yet he refuses to do
anything to help, and by maintaining ob-
struction in the Senate to every Govern-
ment effort be can constitutionally pre-
vent anything at all being done till there
has been another general election. That
is the course he evidently means to take
and then to blame the Government for
“ineptitude.”
The forcing of a double-dissolution
would be a continuation of delaying tac-
tics in his general scheme to protect his
Communist allies —those “philosophers”
who are even now sending their emis-
saries overseas to get Cominform orders
for Australia, and whose political ob-
jective is as near to Mr. Chifley’s own
as to be indistinguishable from it. He is
against defence preparations and against
the bill to suppress Communist sabo-
tage, though the Socialist Government in
Britain is face-to-face with an obligation
to take similar drastic measures. He re-
fused, while Mr. Menzies was away, to
meet the Acting Prime Minister and
learn confidentially the urgent news Mr.
Menzies had sent back to Cabinet from
London and Washington. He has only
one idea; to make another bid for office
and socialisation, to produce an election
at any cost, and then to try to steer
the issue at the polls to the Communists’
own slogan—“ Raise wages, peg prices.”
A Minister in the Attlee Socialist Gov-
ernment in London has just told the
House of Commons that the latest sabo-
tage campaign in Britain as ordered from
Moscow’s Cominform is being directed
against the nation’s rearmament effort.
Mr. Chifley appears to want the “Labor”
party to defeat what Menzies is doing,
and that will no doubt suit the Com-
munists in Australia. He may get his
wish, but it will be his last fling.
Jan Smuts.
The British Commonwealth lost one of
its few remaining statesmen when Jan
Smuts died on September 11 at 80, the
last Boer general of the First World War,
the second of the great Boer makers of
United South Africa to hold the office
of Prime Minister of the Union. Botha
was the other, Hertzog being more of a
pro-German disrupter.
From his youth he had had a foot in
each of two worlds. He was a Boer of
Boers, yet he was educated at Cambridge
University, where he took a degree bril-
liantly, and of which he became the first
chancellor resident in the Dominions
overseas.
With all his British ties and friendships
he fought loyally with the Boers, and
emerged from his campaigning a distin-
guished soldier. He remained a distin-
guished soldier to the end, fighting a
sound campaign in East Africa in
World War I, while at the same time
doing much to assure the continued
loyalty of the Boers, who only a decade
and a half before had looked on Germany
as a friend and the British as bitter
enemies. In the Second World War he
secured adhesion to the British cause and
commanded his Dominion’s troops.
In the years between the two wars his
stature increased. During his period as
Prime Minister he made South Africa an
influence in world affairs out of all pro-
portion to its output of resources and to
its position in general, and this despite
the fact that his Government was beset
with problerps unknown to any other of
the Dominions —the problem of placating
the Boers, the problem of the native races
continually urged to mischief by cunning
agitators financed from Moscow, the
Indian question and the continual worries
associated with the expendable nature of
South Africa’s main products, gold and
diamonds. These, though in later years
of inflation a tremendous advantage,
were in the past a source of serious
anxiety to the Government in view of the
artificial nature of diamond values, and
the danger of failure to control produc-
tion and of the low content of the gold
reefs compared with the increasing wage
demands of labor.
Smuts was basically a simple man. He
died poor on his small farm, where he
lived throughout the years of his great-
ness a modest, religious, middle-class
Boer life. In his last years he was much
in the same position as Mr. Churchill —
thrown out by an ungrateful electorate
in favor of a Government which was
willing to pander to mob opinion irre-
spective of the future good of the country
and the continuance of a peaceful way of
life. He died acknowledged by the world
as the ablest man of his age in his coun-
try, its greatest living military leader, one
of its greatest scholars, one of the world’s
greatest statesmen to whom men of all
parties everywhere were willing to listen,
and whose words had an influence which
reached to the ends of the earth.
His case, in fact, was one more instance
of the distrust which the newest brands
of democracy have of superior ability in
contrast to their wholehearted approval
of little men with the will to surrender to
selfishness and sectionalism.
The Sinister Journey.
Two years ago when the Attlee Govern-
ment introduced its bill for the nation-
alisation of the steel industry Winston
Churchill said: “This is not a bill; it is
a plot. It is a party dodge to hold the
party together where they sit, until they
run the full length of their term.” Plot
or not, the bill went through, though not
without, shaking off the Socialist wagon
a few members who in 1945 had sincerely
believed that a Labor Government would
be the saving of Britain.
Alfred Edwards, iff resigning from the
party, said that it was suffering “from the
curious illusion that the Government
possesses some magical power for plan-
ning industry.” Edwards was a man with
practical experience of the steel industry;
he knew that the planners had none and
he wanted to know
however did we come to suppose that a
change of ownership from a group of
people who had built up a business to a
group of people who bad never built any-
thing would advance the interests of the
Workers?
Ivor Thomas, member for Keighley,
was another who resigned from the party
rather than accept the bill. He told his
former colleagues: “Socialist planning
is making Britain a land fit for zeroes
The itching fingers of planners cannot let
things alone. After the last three years
I have doubts of both the competence and
intentions of our Socialist Ministers.”
A third resignation was that of Lord
Milverton, who said that when he joined
the Labor party he thought he was par-
ticipating in a crusade, hut, instead, he
had found himself “a camp-follower in
a rake’s progress.” He warned that the
road the Socialists were travelling led to
a precipice, “at the foot of which clearly
emerges the totalitarian State.” He re-
fused “to be a silent passenger on this
sinister journey.”
The Steel Nationalisation Bill became
law in 1948, but it was provided that it
should not become effective until a date
to be .fixed —between May 1, 1950, and
November 1, 1951. When the general
election last February saw Attlee’s
majority cut down almost to vanishing-
point, it seemed reasonable to assume
that the large number of voters who
changed their political minds between the
1945 and 1950 elections felt the same way
towards socialisation as the members who
left the party in protest against the Steel
Grab. Reasonable, too, to expect that
the Government might take the hint and
leave the Act on the shelf for the time
being. But Socialism, like Communism,
is more a faith than a system of reason,
and, accordingly, Mr. Attlee last Thurs-
day announced the Government’s inten-
tion of establishing the Iron and Steel
Corporation almost immediately.
Mr. Churchill gave notice of a no-
confidence motion on the matter; this
will be debated today, with the Govern-
ment’s fate depending on its ability to
muster its full forces for the division.
Since February Attlee has several times
been challenged, but has always managed
to bring his followers up to scratch.
There are many inside the party who
doubt the wisdom of steel-nationalisation
at the present critical period of European
and world affairs, when Socialist Britain
is accepting assistance from capitalist
America. Today’s vote will be a
challenge to decide between conscience
and party.
Wanted—a Wailing-wall.
Sydney city proper is a long narrow
collection of buildings following five
main streets —Elizabeth, Castlereagh,
Pitt, George and York —which run more
or less parallel with each other from the
Central railway-station to Circular Quay
and along which flow all the main
business and traffic of the city. Of the six
or seven through cross-streets that cut
across the five only one —Park-street —is
adequate to carry cross-city traffic; the
only other one approaching it—King-
street —carries a double tram-line into
which pour trams from the crowded
districts from East Sydney all the way
back to Watson’s Bay. King-street
pierces the very heart of the city and with
trams, vehicles and people is inevitably
one continuous traffic-jam for most of
the day.
The important portion of King-street
is not much over a quarter-mile long ;
from Watson’s Bay to King-street is
about six miles. In peak hours you can be
anything from 40 to 50 minutes making
the trip, the sole cause being that crowded
quarter-mile at the end. Mr. Sheahan, the
N.S.W. Minister for Transport, means to
stop the trams short of King-street, turn
them on a loop in St. James’s Square,
and thus allow other traffic unrestricted
use of King-street,
The decision brought a wail of protest,
o Continued on next page)


6661 E-R
CRAVEN “A"
Their quality and smoothness
is unmistakable
made speeieMf ii>
preven thfomts
CARRERAS
LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
£2:
m
cbiefly f rom tbe pos h suburb of Vaucluse,
should erect a special wailing-wall
with a place reserved for Mr. Finnan, the
NS W Minister for Prices> Both Mr
Finnan and a special minority of
Vaucluse residents may find a sad
pleasure in wailing together over the
Sheahan decision.
A few months ago Mr. Winsor, then
Road Transport Commissioner, cut out
trams from Vaucluse and Watson’s Bay
and substituted a bus service which cut
the travelHng-time to and from the city
by from one-third to one-half, travelled
via Sydney Town Hall and Clarence-
street to Wynyard Square and return and
was, for all general purposes, as con-
venient as the trams. There instantly
arose an agitation against the buses. The
most absurd things were alleged against
them. Woollahra Council was dragged
into it; so was the somewhat confiding
Mr. Robson, Liberal member for
Vaucluse. In the end this noisy minority
got its trams back—and now must walk
to the city from St. James’s Square or
pay another fare. It may wish it still had
the buses.
Mr. Finnan must wonder whether he
is not a plaything of the malicious gods.
As senior Prices Minister he is frequently
heard loudly refusing t 0 allow price .
j ncreases to private firms providing goods
and serv j ces t Q the public in a time of
steep j y r | s j ng costs; yet the Cabinet of
w j l j c j 1 be is a member is out to bump up
£ ares which will put several shillings
a week on to Sydney living costs and he
hasn > t gaid a word
Kin g . street must worry Mr. Finnan,
toQ _ membef for Darlinghurst he
ha& thousands of solid « Labor » sup .
porters who travel on those trams through
King-street to and from the wharves at
the harbor end and to jobs in Balmain
and waterfront works from Pyrmont
round to Miller’s Point. It was a favorite
habit of many of these people to board
“minimum-fare” trams, refuse to pay
more than the first-section fare and defy
the tram people to do anything about it.
Mr. Finnan holds weekly receptions in
his electorate at which he is “available
for interviews.” It should be interesting
to hear him dealing with the honest
fellows to whom his colleague intends to
award a long walk every morning and
evening.
POLITICAL POINTS
When the anti-Red bill was being de-
bated in the Reps “Labor” members made
much of the point that no other demo-
cratic country had banned the Communist
party. They’ll have to go carefully on
f, / • , , * •*,
that point when the war of words is r -
sumed next week; legislation now before
U.S. Congress goes far beyond the
Menzies bill, and last Friday Mr.
Deakin, of the powerful Transport and
General Workers’ Union, urged the
British Government to ban the Com-
munist party.
McGirr’s caucus will today consider
Mr. Winsor’s recommendations of in-
creased tram, train and bus fares. Pro-
posed increases are stiff-single tram
s- AA 0 o • t lrnm tr ’ -it
section 4d. and a typical train trip will
jump from Bd. to Is. 2d. The attitude of
lu rouarnmnnt’c wLdrE
rmc hoif rcpiflWLi will Lp in’thp ranruc-
on -hal (Se ) 1 '
hi fll
side, will be all-important, both members
have already criticised the proposals,
Geraghty told the Sunday papers he
,5 * „ * ■
would not support increased fares while
the Sydney Harbor Bridge toll re-
mained” ; Seiffert’s remedy was to budget
for a deficit and “throw the whole thing
back on to the Federal Government.”
There was no hint of these increases in
“Labor’s” policy speech. Not that that is
the sort of thing that would worry caucus
as a general rule, but the unfortunate
point is that the people likely to be most
affected by increased fares are those
whose interests “Labor” claims to have at
heart; worse still, those whose votes keep
“Labor” in power. Seitfert’s suggestion
will find plenty of supporters in caucus,
But there is too much of that sort of
economic hocus-pocus in Australia
already. It is best that the effect of high
costs should be obvious where it falls,
and not disguised by a tax raised through
“the lot’ry, road-transport charges or
penpral revenue
® ’
Round about a score of Communists
and fellow-travellers will shortly leave
Australia to attend the so-called Second
World Peace Congress, which has been in-
flicted on London instead of Warsaw as
at first arranged. Passports issued by the
Federal authorities to these “peacelovers”
, .
counts, S
them by the Communist party will open
the boundary-gates remains to be seen.
Two more Victorian members of
Federal “Labor” caucus openly advo-
eating passage of the anti-Communist
bill are Andrews, M.H.R. for Darebin,
and Bird, M.H.R. for Batman. Andrews
told the Melbourne Trades and Labor
Council last week that the bill had “em-.
barrassed and divided Labor throughout
Australia,” and “Labor would be anni-
hilated if a double-dissolution were
forced on the issue.” Bird met the Bat-
man “Labor” Campaign Council and,
having outlined the amended “onus”
clause 8 said he was in thorpugh accord
with a resolution of the Batman council
urging caucus to place no further
obstacle against passage of the bill.
„ . ■,
When Melbourne newspapers reported
that some Victorian members of the
Canberra “Labor” caucus “regard Mr.
Calwell’s assumption of leadership of the
section opposed to a double-dissolution
as an embarrassment,” Mr, Calwell
promptly replied that a double-dissolu-
tion would be “suicidal” for the party
and that he believed the majority of
caucus shared his views. There must
be some awful pressure going on in “the
movement” in Melbourne.
A Sydney paper offers advice to its
readers:
Never answer a policeman’s questions.
Never make a statement.
Never get into conversation (however
innocent it fnay appear) with an interro-
gating policeman.
Never he misled by a policeman’s
promises nor intimidated by his threats:
politely but firmly assert your rights.
The official organ of the Burglars’
Union? No, of the Australian Com-
munist party.
Maybe it’s just the first breath of
spring, but it looks very much as if the
shipping industry is in *for a crop of
petty disputes, seemingly unconnected,
but all serving the Communist purpose
of holding up the movement of ships.
Last week the freighters Lowana and
River Lodden were held up in Newcastle,
the former because the crew didn’t like
the cook and wanted him sacked; the
latter through a list of demands which
led Conciliation Commissioner Hamilton
Knight to describe the dispute as the most
frivolous he had ever seen. The demands
included:
Carpets in cabins, larger towels, a different
brand of bath-soap (possibly a tribute to
radio-advertising), stainless-steel washbasins,
ashtrays in messrooms, rubber bath-mats
instead of wooden ones, tea in packets
instead of bulk.
The last item recalls a strike of several
years ago when the crew walked off a
ship because the owners wouldn’t supply
jam in 30oz. tins instead of 71b. ones.
The point in that apparently pointless
dispute was that it is rather difficult to
put a 71b. tin of jam in your pocket.
Whatever may be said for or against
the granting to coalminers of long-
service-leave privileges not enjoyed by
workers in other industries, there is no
sense or justice in disallowing from the
qualification period time spent in the
armed forces. The Coal Industry
Tribunal, Mr. Gallagher, in turning down
an application that the time should count,
said that while miners were on war
service they were not under the, control
of their employers and were not per-
forming duties in the coal industry. He
had, therefore, to refuse the application
“while the award was in its present form.”
Then the sooner the award changes its
form the better.
Hanlon described the Premiers’ Con-
ference as “the most unpleasant gather-
ing in his 18 years as a Minister,” laying
the blame for the unpleasantness on
Menzies and saying that the Prime
Minister’s treatment of the Premiers was
so bad that his most severe critic was the
Liberal Premier of South Australia. On
the same day that Hanlon made the
statement Playford was telling the annual
conference of the Liberal-Country League
in Adelaide that the Federal Government
might soon have to take, because of the
world situation, “resolute and active
measures, not in some cases popular,” and
was calling on members of his party to
give loyal support to such measures be-
cause “whatever action was taken would
be in the interests of Australia as a
whole.”
If the 400,000,000 signatures allegedly
collected for the “Ban the Atom Bomb”
petition were returned to their owners the
vast majority wouldn’t be able to read
them,
C. M. Williams, president of N.S.W.
Graziers’ Association, is pardonably
alarmed at suggestions to clap a special
tax on wool just because the price is high,
but he is unfair in alleging that the
Menzies Government “is using the wool
industry to divert attention from its
failure to cure inflation,” Inflation was
well on the way when the Menzies Gov-
ernment came to power, and, unless the
people help, it won’t be stopped except by
unpopular drastic measures. So far, the
people have done nothing but growl.
Last week the wing of the atomic angel
cast a chilling shadow over Melbourne
when Premier McDonald announced that
new industries are soon to be banned
from the metropolitan area as “a strategic
measure.” He added that his Govern-
ment was acting on the recommendation
of Commonwealth military authorities,
war 99 lip ‘said is
considered strategically unsound further
to concentrate industry in Melbourne,
and I have been advised that it is more
imperative to send industry to the
country.” The legislation will prohibit
the issue of building-permits to new
industries, which will be offered permits
for suitable areas in the country. The
Bulletin, without the spurring of the
atomic bomb, has long advocated decen-
tralisation of industry. Melbourne, like
the other mainland capitals, is already
hopelessly overcrowded.
~, . - ,
The prospect of having to pay a ■
tram-fare is getting Melburnians hot
under the collar, and motorists there are
talking rebellion because the State
Government proposes to of
an annual motor-car driver s licence from
its present ss. These people ought to
take a trip up to Sydney, where driving-
licences cost 15s. and tram-f r , Y
3d., look like going up to . J
railways, too, are showing a deficit of as
much as £400,000. In N.S. .
Transport Commissioner is talking of a
coming £10,000,000 deficit.
There is nothing quite so arrogant as a
N. S. Walesi “Labor” politician. One
of them, named Shannon, in the McGirr
outfit in Sydney, read that “a well-known
Sydney society woman” had appealed
against a £l2 fine for speeding, had con-
viction and fine cancelled by Judge
Markell and was placed on a £5O bond
for three years, the judge remarking that
he was giving her a chance to prove his
trust in her and that if she offended
again she would probably forfeit her
bond and her driving-licence. Up rose
Mr. Shannon to demand that the Minister
for Transport overrule the judge and
cancel the woman’s licence ; he was sup-
ported by another courtly gentleman
named Tonge. Transport Minister
Sheahan curtly replied that it would be
improper for a Minister to interfere with
a court’s decision, and thus kicked in the
pants the “Labor” delusion that “Labor”
can treat the Law as it likes.
... . , x
Announcing a 10 per cent, rise in freight
rates to Australia oversea shipowners give
as the reason the slow turn-round of ships
in Australian ports they claim that de-
spite fewer strikes the turn-round is
slower than ever before. Sydney
wharfies chose the week of the announce-
ment to stage a tie-up of the port over a
dispute on one ship, at the.sametimei ad-
vancmg claims which, if jranted would
make them the most privileged workers-
m the Commonw al n.
“Pip Tok”: At least two men from the
British Isles recognised the seeds
of greatness germinating in Jan Smuts,
Michael Davitt, the Irish rebel, who spent
an evening in the Pretoria home of the
Smuts family on the eve of the British
occupation, described him as “one of
the most brilliant young men in the
Transvaal, cultured, courteous and gentle-
manly; a man who would be a credit to
any Government in existence.” Smuts
told him “We will ultimately be defeated,
of course,” but Davitt noticed neither
bitterness nor despair in his attitude,
Smuts added that the Boers’ £~ht for
nationhood would be continued under
new conditions. In Conan Doyle’s The
Great Boer War the creator of Sherlock
Holmes had this to say of Smuts:
“Throughout the war he had played a
manly and honorable part. It may be
hoped that with youth and remarkable
experience, both of diplomacy and war,
he may now find a long and brilliant
career in a wider arena than that for
which he strove.”
, ~
There s an old old story about a noble
E*er who dreamt he was delivering a
speech in the House of Lords and woke
"P to find he was. Something very akin
to. his feelings assails the waking dreams
N. S* Whiles Lcibor politicians at
Present. With the party’s majority down
to the irreducible minimum every vote
“tints, and the favorite nightmare of
Ministers and rank-and-fllers alike is one
■££
a Vlli a drmion in the House and wak
U P t 0 1111(111 true -
Pandit Nehru, urging the admission of
Communist China to the United Nations,
sa i d tha.t if that body excluded Red
china, the Soviet and some other nations
“j t W ould cease to be what it was meant
to be.” Is it what it was meant to be?
Has it ever been what it was meant to
t>e? For that matter, what was it meant
tQ be?


imati
ibJSHER
PRICES
l^°'Hour
“THE MORE I FEED HIM THE HUNGRIER HE GETS!”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Prices of confectionery in packets and bars, ex-
cept chocolates, were increased by a penny last
' week.”
“F.S.”: An auction of “old masters' 5 in
Amsterdam has written finis to a story
which will be quoted in art histories
alongside the famous case of Whistler
contra Ruskin. It was the sale of 34
of the pictures painted by Hans van
Meegeren, the man who faked Vermeers
and sold them for over £1,000,000. In
1937 Van Meegeren, regarded as a
mediocrity, though he had more skill than
most of his detractors, got the idea of
showing-up the real ignorance of critics
and “experts. 55 He made a study of
Vermeer's methods and the kind of can-
vases and pigments he used and started to
paint a Vermeer. His first attempt was a
brilliant success, and he followed it up
with half-a-dozen others. All the leading
art authorities in Europe were taken in ;
one declared that one of his “Vermeers 55
was the best Vermeer Vermeer ever
painted. Private patrons and famous
galleries bought them, and he might
have gone to his grave undetected
if he had not sold one to Marshal
Goring. This was traced back to
him after the war, and to clear
himself from the charge of theft and
collaboration he confessed to the
forgeries. Nobody believed him, so he
offered to paint another ; he was supplied
with studio facilities and in due course
out came another “Vermeer. 55 The ex-
perts were confounded, and Van
Meegeren got his sentence for false pre-
tences and died in prison in 1947. It
seems fair to ask why some of the experts
didn't get a term for false- pretences.
* * * ♦
“Pontius Penwiper 55 : A recent death
reminded me of that period of half a
century ago when spiritualism was a very
live subject. There are still small groups
interested in it; but in those days quite
a number of people were protagonists of
the various cults or hot antagonists of the
claims they put forward. In addition, a
multitude of people like myself attended
seances, table - rappings, planchette-
writing exhibitions and so on with an
open mind. On the other side were men
like Hoskins, who regularly engaged a
city theatre to show that he could do by
trickery all the things the spiritualists
claimed to be the result of spirit-action.
The chap who has
just died was a
highlight amongst
the pro - spirits
crowd; he was
a producer of
“apports”
things alleged to
be produced out
of the air by
what the spiritualists
called “ectoplasmic translation.” De-
finitely he produced some apports; my
memory of a seance given at the Queen’s
Hall especially centres around a fish
fresh from the water that plumped, still
wriggling, on the table. The spirits
seemed to do some childish things to
manifest their existence, but there was
a lot about these affairs that was mysti-
fying and hard to explain. The apport-
man faded out, and when I met him years
later he told me he had given up
spiritualism. He assured me that at one
lime he could produce apports, but he
lost faith in himself and spiritualism
and the power left him. My theory is
that he had some sort of hypnotic power
whereby he hypnotised not only his audi-
ence but himself.
* * * *
“Sackville St.”: The new Australian
practice of alluding to migrants as New
Australians may be based on kindly
\ENfIMEIr
“It's also good for golf-balls.”
hospitality, but it can convey an entirely
wrong impression. When a headline
read: “New Australian Knights in
Birthday Honors,” I found myself
wondering whether Sir Bruno and Sir
Otto would still be compelled to finish
their two years of bondage digging holes
for the Water Board. If so, what would
be the psychological effect on the older-
type of ganger? Could a man trained in
the tough school when the method of
address was; “Hey/you! I want one of
yez out of that ’ole” —bring himself to
bow and request: “Would you be so kind
as to fill that banjo a little fuller, Sir
Giorgio?” I was quite disappointed to
•find that the knights were not New Aus-
tralians. A placard; “New Australian
Invention” had me gurgling with
enthusiasm —they were the migrants we
wanted: men with brains and initiative.
Again I was disappointed; the inventor
had one of those ordinary, common old
names like Smith or Brown. The head-
lines; “Five Big New Australian In-
dustries to Start” deceived me, but only
for a second. “New Australian Weapon”
found me too cautious to be caught. But
if the “Labor” party persists in shielding
the Commos to the point of a double-dis-
solution, the headlines are going to carry
some startling information to overseas
readers: “New Australian Senate.”
* * * *
“Villefair”; It is estimated that four
complete cottages could have been built
with the money spent on foundation-
stones bearing the name of Clive Evatt.
Perhaps his successor in the post of Pooh-
Bah to the N.S.W. Housing Commission
will have less inclination to exhibitionism,
but the stage is set if the new broom
wishes to follow the example. On the
block-plan of every sizeable Housing
Commission project a prominent position
is marked “Site of commemorative-
stone,” and 30 fiddlies are earmarked for
its supply and erection. Possibly the
money will be spent to better purpose
now, but a recent development has left
me doubtful. An edict has gone forth
that the new Minister views with regret
that many builders are neglecting to
erect a sign informing the public that the
houses under construction are being built
for the Ministry of Housing; henceforth
all builders will be required to erect a
sign bearing such information, the letters
to be not less than 9in. high. Should he
wish to put up a board of his own the
builder may do so, provided the letters
on such sign do not exceed 2in. in
height. And I used to think that Govern-
ment departments weren’t capable of a
magnanimous gesture!
“Becks”: The film was a short dealing
with the development of the jet-engine.
In his opening the producer had appar-
ently gone to great pains to indicate the
hush-hush nature of the undertaking. A
white-coated man was shown approach-
ing a door marked “Private.” He ignored
the notice, opened the door and walked,
through. At the end of the passage was
another door marked “No Admittance” ;
it meant nothing to the bloke in the white
coat —in he went, to be confronted with,
a third door on which was printed in
bold letters “Keep Out.” He pushed it
open and went in. “One of those Russian
inspectors,” whispered a voice behind me.
* * * ♦
“Bo”: Our all-too-brief spring will
shortly, despite the meticulous season-
calibrations of the meteorologists, merge
as usual into summer before the stipu-
lated date, and in the interests of suffer-
ing masculinity I put to underwear manu-
facturers suggestions—nobly declining
any such monetary rewards as they may
consequently wish to shower on me—
which could make our collective lot a
happier one. From the dread sartorial
disease of Upward-creeping Singlet I have
long been a hot-weather victim, just as I
have from the concomitant one of
Upward - spiralling Underpants.
Laboratory research into cut, style, etc.,
has seemingly failed to find a remedy,
But there is one. Are we men too proud
to borrow an idea from approximately
the feminine counterpart of these
garments? A few judiciously-placed
hooks and eyes, the former on the bottom
of the singlet and the latter on top of the
underpants (or vice versa), would, I claim,
solidly anchor the top garment and
suspenders, two fore and two aft, on the
legs of the underpants and hooked to the
top df the sox would keep the nether
underwear in place short of one’s sox
coming apart under the strain of bending,
which is unlikely. Some caviller may, I
am aware, ask; “What of the man who
doesn’t wear sox?” To him I answer;
“Can’t he hook the suspenders to the
top shoelace-holes?” He may have to
walk bent double, but what is that to
being half-strangled by an incorrigible
pair of underpants?
* * * ♦
“Pawang”: The Victorian Federation
of Mothers’ Clubs has condemned two
widely-differing works as unsuitable for
reading in mixed classes ; both are text-
books for matriculation English, The
mothers object to Shakspeare’s “Othello”
on the ground that the part where
Othello’s mind is being poisoned by lago
against Desdemona would have a horrible
effect on impressionable adolescents,
whom they also feel would be adversely
affected by the description of a birth
in Daisy Bates’s The Passing of the
Aborigines. One of the mothers said
that, a teacher, a very sincere, earnest
woman, told her that she shudders every
time she reads it to a mixed class —“the
children don’t turn a hair, however.”
There is the position. A book can be
felt and understood only in terms of the
experience of the reader, and whereas
our grandmothers were brought up to
believe that the doctor brought the new
baby in a black bag or the stork dropped
it down a chimney, modern children see
their mothers taken off to a hospital
replete with every hygienic gadget, and
a few days later they are taken to view
the new infant through a glass screen.
They could no more get from Mrs.
Bates’s book the feelings that rugged lady
had when she was delivering a baby in
the squalor of a blacks’ camp than they
could get from “Othello” the maddening
feelings of love and murderous hate con-
jured up in the Moor by lago’s whisper-
ings if they have never experienced the
anguish of a jealous lover.. The real
harm done by giving the impressionable
adolescent the works of Shakspeare to
study and analyse and pass indoctrinated
judgments on is to surround Shakspeare
with unfortunate associations for them.
After they have won their degree on their
knowledge of the poet they start out to
write something themselves, and the result
seems so piffling that they are completely
discouraged, and either give up writing
or become critics.
* * * *
“0.R.A.”: It was old HammerfaH’s
last sale ; he was retiring to a little shack
down the coast. He had disposed of his
business, sold his house, and now was
putting his household goods and chattels
up for auction. After rattling off the
usual conditions of sale, the old chap
grimly surveyed the gathering. “Well,
L&S9
I suppose I ought to
say thanks for so
many of you turn-
ing up, but I know
every mother’s son
and daughter of you.
I’ve been selling stuff
under the hammer
round these parts for
over forty years, and
I know darned well
that about eighty per
cent, of you have only come to sticky-
beak. So will all of those who aren’t
genuinely interested in the bits and pieces
I’ve got to offer kindly clear out and
make a bit of room for those who are?”
There was a pause, and then “I’m mighty
glad to see you’re all interested, so we’ll
get on with the sale.” I don’t know what
were the takings, but judging by what I
paid for a couple of pillows and an anti-
quated lawnmower they must have been
a record.
“Look, Magenta — y' CAN’T Walk out on me like this!”
BITTER-SWEETS.
It hardly pays to be a child
In post-war lolly-shops
With Jelly Frogs and Chocolate Frogs
Gone up by leaps and hops;
Balloons a penny used to buy
Share the situation
Of Lemonade and Bubblegum—
All victims of inflation.
Jaffas and Jellybeans,
Crumblebars and Minties —
What we need in times like these
Are the good old nineteen-twinties;
Fruit-drops and Peppermint-drops—
Drops are not their faults —
Oh, why not make them really drop,
And put up Epsom Salts?
Caramels and Butterscotch
And Toffee have had rises;
They’re sure to stick to everything
Excepting to their prices;
Musk-sticks and Lime-sticks —
’Twould make a schoolboy weep
That Licorice-sticks should be so dear
And masters’ canes so cheap.
What we once paid for Peanut Bar,
Sherbert and Steamrollers
May soon* be ancient history
To many youthful scholars,
And some of us will sympathise
To see them learn with loathing
That suckers could be charged so much
While school cost nothing.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Since the publicity given multiple births by the
Bellingen (N.S.W.) ’ quads, inquiries by prospective
fathers for insurance policies against such contin-
gencies have increased.”
“Wil Cox”: The Kaiser’s war being
just ended at the time of my wedding,
uniform was the dress for the occasion,
and being short of cash I had my brown
shoes half-soled. My best man was the
wag of the old regiment, and when dress-
ing for the great event I noticed he
appeared to be giv-
ing my old shoes un-
necessary attention.
The ceremony went
according to plan—
.his, not mine. I was
the sacrificial lamb,
but when I knelt at
the altar an audible
titter pervaded the
sacred edifice. I
learned the cause
later; chalked on
the soles of my shoes were the figures 8/9.
The mother of one of my old flames
whispered “A good price for him, too.”
* * * *
“Clooter”: A restlessness among the
usually staid matrons of our street has
been bothering husbands for some time,
and it wasn’t until the other day that the
caqse was discovered. There’s a lady with
much more money than is good for her,
and when some of .the neighbors found
her poring over maps and marking certain
inland towns with red circles they
couldn’t rest until they got the secret out
of her. With the maps and a copy of the
1947 census she is working out the eight
or 10 large country centres most likely to
be visited by Majesty during the Royal
tour in 1952. She proposes to start visit-
ing these places regularly during the inter-
vening months, making herself known to
important locals and entertaining lavishly.
At the same time she hopes to acquire
pre-emptive rights on rooms in the lead-
ing hotels, and thus give herself a reason-
able chance of getting within speaking
distance of Royalty at one or more points
of the tour. She’s convinced that her
chances of doing so in Sydney will be
poor, since competition will be numerous
and fierce. It’s a neat idea for anyone
with such a desire and the money to
indulge it. As I said, it wasn’t until the
other day that the cause of the feminine
restlessness in our street was discovered;—
but there’s nothing we can do about it.
* * * » .♦
“Jasby”: There may be a shortage of
teachers in New South Wales, but at least
one woman in Sydney will be hard to
convince that there is any shortage among
other grades of Education Department
employees. Headmistress of an infants’
school, she wished to have a piano moved
from the ground-floor to the first. Three
or four male teachers agreed to do the
job, but when they reached the stairs they
found it slightly beyond their strength.
Noticing a man cleaning windows, they
asked him if he’d lend a hand. He was
sorry, but his job was cleaning windows ;
he wouldn’t be allowed to shift pianos—
whether the prohibition was imposed by
his union; the department or his own
conscience is not clear. The headmistress
thereupon rang the department asking for
some men to be sent out who would be
be allowed to perform the task. Depart-
ment was courteous and said next time
some general laborers were passing the
"I'm sure your husband Would appreciate THIS tie, Madam.”
school they jwould be sent in to her.
Teacher replied that that was not definite
enough; she wanted the piano shifted in
time for Friday’s concert. Department
said it would do its best. Came Wednes-
day ; came also eight men with orders to
shift the piano—which task they per-
formed to the satisfaction of all con-
cerned. Came Friday; came another
eight men with orders to shift the piano.
Teacher thanked them ; explained that the
job was already done. Came Monday;
came another eight men with orders to*
shift the piano. Teacher thanked them ;
explained that the job was still done.
There’s been a lull since then, but the next
team is expected along any day.
• * * * *
“Emjai”: The inflation and complete
collapse of the German mark in the
’twenties found a crop of easy-money-
seeking mugs nearer home. The Victorian
wheatbelt, bloated with returns from
bumper seasons and high prices, was
flooded with circulars predicting early
restoration of the mark, and offering
millions for sale with promise of fortunes
to ensue. Bank-managers had even to
resist applications by cookies already
loaded with scraps of outer-suburban
paddocks and scrub, yet eager to
mortgage farms in order to invest in
“It appears to be a trifle underdone , Waiter."
marks. Interesting evidence of the
absurd lengths which the inflation
reached was a German bill of exchange
for about £8 Australian which reached a
Melbourne bank. Gummed to the bill
was a piece of paper, folded concertina-
wise, which opened out to 16 yards in
length, and was completely covered by
German duty-stamps of many million
marks.
“Craiser”; My office-boy asked me
why the old pewter-mugs from which the
Briton used to drink his beer had glass
bottoms, and opined that it was so that
the drinker, while quaffing his liquor,
could watch the enemy with whom he
was carousing in case he tried to stick a
sword through his belly. I hadn’t thought
of it before, but I dare say he hit on the
right reason. Some Melbourne hostelries
still serve grog in pewter-pots, but they
haven’t glass bottoms. This is because
the chief enemy of the drinker is the
publican, and for his attack you don’t
need eyes to watch but ears to hear “Six
o’clock, gents.”
* * * *
“Eve”; When you collect a black-eye
through smacking into a door it’s hard to
get people to believe your story. Well, I
am at present the unproud possessor of
a cut tongue. D’ you think I can convince
anyone that I wasn’t eating off my knife?
Yet the facts of the matter are, collec-
tively, a warning to many. They are;
haste, carelessness of hygiene and an
envelope. I licked the flap of an official
envelope too quickly. Result, a deep
quarter-inch cut.
* * * *
“Caballer”: War-time coloring of ships
(B. 6/9/’50)? When it Was first intro-
duced a party of sailormen, partly sober,
arrived at Tilbury Docks after a few days’
leave to find their ship which they had
left as a drab, grey freighter adorned
from stem to stem with yellow, green and
black streaks in mad disorderly patterns.
Their hasty resolve never to touch
another drop lasted nearly a fortnight.
It was 1917 before I met the word camou-
flage. The r.s.m. of my unit, who, having
heard me once ask a farmer the time,
was convinced I was a fluent French
speaker, came to me with the query: “I
have to report to brigade H.Q. for
camouflage for the Lewis-guns. Do I
take a dozen men and a g.s. wagon or do
I bring it back in my pocket?” Not
wishing to spoil my reputation I assured
him that two men would be ample. It
turned out to be two rolls of netting
decked with colored cloth ; two men were
just what was wanted. My ability ds a
linguist was never again in doubt.
* * * *
“Karrikut”: After 26 years of car-
ownership I have struck a new problem.
I am quite in agreement with the rule
which says a motorist must give way to a
vehicle on his right—but what if the
vehicle on the right is in reverse-gear?
Approaching an intersection recently I
slowed down; the only vehicle in sight
was a rabbiter’s van which had crossed
the intersection and pulled up, I pro-
ceeded to cross the road, but when I was
half-way across Rabbit-oh came on me
in reverse and at a smart bat. (I found
out later that his starter would not func-
tion, and he was trying to start his bus
downhill.) Striking the rear of my car
Rabbit-oh inflicted a tenner’s-worth of
damage. Whose insurance pays?
Traffic Department ruled against Rabbit-
oh, but he was unconvinced. “They tell
you to give way to traffic on the right,”
he protested. “What’s the good of a rule
if they won’t uphold it?”
* * * *
“Taswegian”; Modest dressers who
shrink in horror from flowered shirts,
tropical-island tiesi and maroon jackets
will no doubt be surprised to leam that
one item of their attire —white handker-
chief with colored border—was once
regarded in the same light. My mother’s
grandfather told the tale of an English
workman buying one of those large
colored ’kerchiefs that men of that time
wore round their throats, or carried their
cribs in; the shop-assistant tried to
interest him in one of the latest —white,
with a colored border. His refusal was
terse and scornful: “None of your gaudy
colors for I ; I like plain rad and yaller.”
* * * *
“Arowen”: The cove next door had
never struck me as being particularly
inclined towards the practice of chivalry,
but soon after his acquisition of a new
car I was intrigued by his solicitous be-
havior towards his wife, When going out
in the car he would stand patiently hold-
ing the door until the lady was comfort-
ably settled before gently shutting her in.
On their return
he’d scarcely wait
ti stop the car
before leaping
out to hold the
door open for her
to get out. This
was so different
from his general
behavior that I felt urged to tell
him how refreshing it was, in these
hardened times, to meet these old-world
courtesies as between husband and wife.
He blinked a bit until he caught my
meaning, and then grunted that it was the
only way he could keep her from slam-
ming the ruddy thing.
* * * 41
F.R.A.C.S.”: The report of the
Gippsland (Vic.) calf born in full milk
(B. 6/9/’5O) does not surprise me. I
have no special knowledge of veterinary
science, but in the course of a very long
acquaintance with Young Australia and
his mother I have often found within a
very few days of birth the breasts of the
infant “in full milk,” and that without
regard for sex. This sets a little problem
in relief methods, which must be gentle
and not too complete; encouragement
leads to increased supply and trouble for
mother and child, whereas neglect leads
to abscess-formation. Modem technique
suggests a dose or two of a suitable
hormone, to persuade the infant
mechanism that the milk of human kind-
ness should flow in the opposite direction
and that the babe is not yet responsible
for the parent.
♦ * * *
“Cryla”: I was surprised to find in the
private letter-box of my flat an invitation
to take shares in a Hobart consulation (B.
6/ 9/’5O). I seldom give my private
address as a mailing address, and it does
not appear in the telephone directory or
on the electoral-roll. A study of the
designation on the envelope and elimina-
tion of various people who might know
my p.a. convinced me that the informa-
tion could only have been given to the
share-sellers by the woman I occasionally
phone on Saturday afternoons when I
want a few bob each way on some nag
the missus reckons she dreamt about.
* * * ♦
“Mullum”: There is an office in Holly-
wood where film companies can register
a form of copyright over film titles, even
though no plot has been considered.
Within a fortnight of the start of the
Korean War, five titles which included
the name Korea had been registered. I
won’t suggest they’ll never be used, for
there is a story told of a Hollywood
director who, having registered, in 1939,
the title “Night in Warsaw,” remarked,
“We’ll have to use that within a month
or so, or the public will have forgotten
where Warsaw is.”
UNEARNED INCREMENT.
You may with minimum of excitation,
More often with complete indifference,
Read of some burglar-gang’s abomination
Committed at some person’s residence
In some far suburb. Naught the implication
It holds that of the same malevolence
You could be victim. Why the need for fear?
Comforting thought, “It couldn’t happen here!”
Or if, by chance, you did, with some abstraction
Ponder it, you’d immediately conclude
(A theory, this, that holds a strong attraction)
Some singular, mysterious aptitude
For being a victim of such malefaction
Must have been his. The thought would then
obtrude
That such an attribute was never yours;
That only such as he a theft endures.
Then, late one night, there comes an urgent
knocking.
You blearily find Nexdoor on your mat.
His tidings very quickly have you rocking:
Yes, while he and the family were at
The flicks, the burglars got in. Next morn,
locking
Your place up carefully, you grab your hat,
And on the doorstep, prompt at ten, you’ll be
To take a comprehensive policy.
The moral’s clear. And here’s the admonition;
Foolish is he unneeded risks to take
When others, who regard it as their mission
To take them, offer to. So, for your sake,
Heed not the say-so of the statistician
That odds are astronomic you will wake
To find yourself a dad of two or three
Or more, or very sorry you may be.
Insurance cos. work in the realm of “maybes.”
They’ll quote you premiums (some are large,
some small)
As policies against contracting rabies,
Flat feet, a heavy tax, a hobnailed gall,
Or, say, a multiplicity of babies —
The last contingency will not appal
The sire who, with some prudence, thought to
sign,
As indicated, on the dotted line.
No longer, when the giggling nurse emerges
And says “There’s three, all doing well —
• he, he!”
Need Father feel that then his strongest urge is
To stir some powdered glass up in his tea.
Away with gloomy gasps and dismal dirges!
Now, with the cost no object, you will see
Him toss his hat up and exclaim “Whacko!
I’ve struck the jackpot. Now I’m in the dough! ”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Broken Cliffs”: It’s six years since I
saw the Murray—six years of gibbers and
sand. It makes a man think back to the
still evenings and the smoky light on the
metal mirror of water; to the little white-
sand beaches in the flickering shade of
the red-gums, by the lapping green water ;
to the brief, incredible coolness and fresh-
ness before the blazing sunrise of
summer. And a man hears the beat of
the paddle-steamer round the bend, and
sees duck flying low in the beam of light
in front of the Marion’s bows, on dark
star-mirrored nights. Then all the life
of the hot lagoons comes back; coot-
chicks like day-old black Orpingtons, ibis
and spoonbills, pelican Parliaments, tiger-
snakes flat on the cool mud, log-
sheltered from the summer sun. And six
years is a long time to be away from
the tug of a set-line, coming in dripping
over the dinghy’s bows in the darkness,
telegraphing news of a big cod some-
where down in the smooth, black water.
And it’s six years too long to have missed
the taste of a slab of cod or a juicy callop.
But one thing I know: when I go back
0@@f (
“Want an extension on this call?”
I’ll have with me something which was
lost on the river—the regained power to
smell the river scents again. A man loses
that, living on the big gutter.
* * * *
“S.H.H.”: That gastronomical effort of
the wagtail (B. 9/8/’5O) reminds me of a
youthful pastime. Whenever the ration
sheep was killed my brother and I would
collect the smaller entrail. There’d be
anything up to 20ft. of this, and
with our prize carefully squeezed
we’d retire to the back of the hayshed,
where there was always a mob of
amiable Mus-
covies, Laying
the “worm”
flat out on the
ground we’d
introduce a
willing duck to one end of it whilst keep-
ing a good grip on the other. The
Muscovy would make a vain attempt to
gnaw it into swallowable lengths, fail
and start shovelling till it was within a
foot of the finishing-line, when, whilst
one of us held the duck, the other would
carefully haul it all out again for a
repeat performance. Occasionally we’d
vary the sport by tying a big knot in the
middle and introducing a duck to each
end; when they met beak to beak a tug-
of-war would start, each duck surrender-
ing a foot or so to the other only to lose
it again till the gut gave way under the
strain.
* * * *
“Horseless H.”: Bottles don’t decay
(B. 26/7/’5O), and in other years sur-
veyors placed records in the glass con-
tainers under survey-pegs. On the salient
points on N.S.W. Government parish
maps you still read, “Bottle under post,”
and fencing once at Euston we dug up
one of these wax-sealed relics. A note in-
side told that it had been put there on
such-and-such a date by Finnegan and
Middleton, surveyors, and then, after de-
tails of latitude, longitude, etc., the
message ended, “My oath, it’s a mighty
hot day.” And it was, too, 84 years after-
wards !
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: “I cobbered up with a
bloke stayin’ at the pub in Watchem,”
said Mat. “He was runnin’ a little
drapery-shop in the town an’ I used t’
go over an’ we’d yam for a while an’
sneak out for a quickie if there was
nobody about, or if there was a lot o’
customers I’d get a couple o’ bottles an’
take ’em into a back-room he had. It
was summer-time an’ pretty thirsty
weather up in the Mallee, an’ the dust
used t’ bother him a lot; he’d have t’
shut the door sometimes t’ keep it out o’
the shop. One dusty day we was yarnin’
with the door shut an’ he said he had t’
go an’ send a telegram. He reckoned I
better hang on in the shop till he got
back, case anybody come in. He’d hardly
got away when somebody knocked an’ I
opened the door, an’ there’s a girl that
worked in the wheat-agent’s office. She
looks at me an’ says it’s a dirty day an’
I reckon it is, an’ then she says could she
have a yard of blue elastic. I fiddle
round an’ find some in boxes an’ she
looks at it an’ says that ain’t what she
wants it for, it’s too wide or somethin’
for what she wants, an’ like a big mug I
says, ‘What d’ y’ want it for?’ Gripes,
she give me a real funny look, then she
giggles an’ turns away ah looks at me
again an’ says, with a bit of a wriggle,
‘Aw, you know what I want it for!’ I’m
standin’ there gawpin’ at her when me
mate comes in an’ gets her what she
wants. He was a good bloke, that, but
what a way V get a livin’! ” Mat paused,
thought, and then turned to me. “Hey,”
he said, “what d’ y’ reckon she wanted it
for?” “I’ll be the mug,” I said, “what?”
“That’s what I’m flamin’ well askin’ you,’
he flared, and I saw he was fair dinkum.
We made one or two guesses, and Mat
closed the discussion with the philo-
sophical conclusion, “Aw, well, it
wouldn’t be to make a shanghai, any-
how.”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Hal turned into the garage
and cornered the boss. “Hey, Tom, I’ve
been thinking I’ll have to get some sort
of vehicle for that place o’ mine,” he ex-
plained. “Something tp cart a few posts,
and spread fertiliser, and carry me sup-
plies. What do you reckon’d be best?”
“Motor-truck, of course,” the bloke
answered readily. “I’ve got a light one
here you can look at, or I’ll get you a
heavy, if you like. Think it over.” A few
days later Hal ran into the Truck-Dozer
agent. “Been thinking I might get a
truck, Bert,” he informed. “How do you
think it’d go on my place?” “No good,”
chirped the agent. “An ordinary truck’s
no earthly use out there. You’d, never
get it to pull on your country. What you
want is a Dozer, that you can use to run
around, carry your goods, or pull a
plough or any other farm implement.”
Hal saw the point, and had almost de-
cided in favor of the general-purpose
vehicle when he met old Matthews, and
mentioned the matter, “What! Now
don’t you get y’self talked inter one o’
them things, me lad,” advised the old
bloke, “Neither one thing nor the other,
them aren’t. You get a tractor, that’s
strong ’n’ sure, an’ y’ won’t never regret
it.” As Matthews moved out, the garage
bloke winked, “Tractor!” he scoffed.
“Lot of damn good that’d be, to run into
town for supplies. Don’t you be a mug,
Hal.” All of which is the reason Hal is
still packing his supplies and snigging
fence-posts with a nag.
* * * ♦
“Pip Tok”: A farmer’s son at Hester,
near Bridgetown (W.A.), while breaking
up the ant-hill, came upon 14 goanna
eggs ready to hatch. There were no vis-
ible openings by which Mrs. Go. could
have entered, and it was obvious the ant-
hill hadn’t been built round and over the
clutch. While all sorts of theories were
being propounded by town bushmen an
old-timer weighed in with something he
had observed for himself when younger.
He had seen a long-tailed goanna scratch
a tunnel through a small white-ant-hill;
then, with head out one side and tail the
other, she laid her eggs. Next day he
had noticed that both apertures of the
hill were sealed up. It isn’t unusual in
this part of the Groper State to see ant-
hills with tunnels through them.
* * * ♦
“K.R.”: In tracing the origin of the
dragon to “the precipitation into earth of
a pre-lunar satellite,” “Kelms” (B.
6/9/’5O) is taking for granted the cosmic-
ice theory, first put forward in 1913 by
two German scientists, Fauth and
Hoerbiger, and expounded in English by
H. S. Bellamy. I can’t accept the crash-
ing satellite, so I’d need another explana-
tion of dragons. I don’t know of the
theory actually being refuted, but several
scientific works since produced covering
earth, moon and universe generally
ignore the cosmic-ice business.
Bellamy asserts that each of the six
geological ages (which in fact are only
arbitrary divisions of time) was ended by
the violent plunge of an erstwhile satellite
into earth, the moon thus being our
seventh partner and not the one-and-only.
But transition periods between the ages
probably took millions of years; they
weren’t the work of a minute. Even
granting a cataclysmic change, how ex-
plain its occurrence on the opposite side
of the globe to which the satellite hit?
The moon is of course expected to follow
its six predecessors. Then, says Bellamy,
“the majority of living beings will have
been destroyed. The earth will have be-
come a void wilderness. But the spirit of
life will soon move again.” I don’t be-
lieve our old moon will do this to us.
But I’m not saying we’ll get off scot-free
—not judging by the shape of things at
present, anyway. We can’t blame the
moon for our own lunacy.
« * * *
“Easter”: Any of you Aboliars ever
seen a plague of dragon-flies? There
was one over the Eastlakes (Sydney) golf-
course the other week, probably another
result of the extraordinarily wet season.
The things were in clouds on all the low
parts, something like a grasshopper
plague out west. The city coves I was
with were startled and scared, swiping at
the flying mass and warning each other
against being stung. Ran into an old ex-
bushman riding a bike through them and
he called “Strike me, look at the flamin’
’orse-stingers.” It took me back a long,
long way. I hadn’t heard them called that
for a score of years, and it recalled child-
hood days when we honestly believed
that they stung horses. Still, it ought to
be a beneficial plague, for the dragon-
fly’s diet is mostly mosquitoes and gnats,
* * * *
“E.”: The greyhound-cross of old
Charlie’s wasn’t young, but after hearing
Chari’s recommendation Herb paid over
the quid and let the mong join his pack.
He took it to work- first hopefully, then
dubiously and at last resignedly. He was
letting him tag along in the hope some-
thing might happen the evening he and
Charlie went up the hill behind the camp
looking for dog-tucker. The pack bounced
along in front; the greyhound-cross
drooped in the rear,
Racing up the hill,
the pack began
hunting; the grey-
hound-cross sat on
tbe track at the foot
and mournfully won-
dered bow i ong tbe y WO uld be coming
back Then hi hon hill, the pack
put up a rabbit and raced it down the
slope, Herb-s w *“^ e ■S’&JhmtlSl
the y neared the t° ot - evho d
on down the track above the greynouna,
failed to see him m Q™^ n bi^ a^ b a^d
fair on the rump. On the M Herb an
Charlie watched. Awright I apologise
fr doubtm yr word about that mong,
Chari,” Herb remarked p _Y-
were right. He can *un than
rabbit. He beat that nail the way back
t’ camp an won by a g
lengths.
THE JACKEROO.
Here he comes—a bit of a freak,
With a glass in his eye and a rosy cheek!
Useless, of course; no good on a horse;
And taking a buster twice a week.
Slewed at the muster and lost in the yards,
A figure of fun to our old diehards;
A hopeless mutt, a bit of a butt,
And apt to be rooked when playing cards.
Donning the gloves with an air of gloom
When somebody belts him round the room.
For any who asks doing menial tasks
As humble as those of an English groom.
But under the eye of a kind adviser
He soon gets bolder and soon gets wiser,
Turning out rough and calling their bluff;
And, as for the station —he’ll surprise her!
For stock-work now he displays some wit;
He can ride a horse that can root a bit;
He can sink a post as well as most,
And a broken wire—he can deal with it.
He can brand a calf, he can milk a cow;
He never gets lost in the paddocks now;
When scrubbers race he can keep his place
And gauge the height of a bloodwood bough.
In fact, he’s a bushman —more or less,
With suitable oaths and proper dress,
And faced with a fight has a handy right
That can make his opponent’s face a mess.
♦ ♦ * ♦
So here’s good luck to the jackeroo!
Let him come along as he used to do;
For, though jaw and green, as they’ve always
been,
He’ll just grow up as the old ones grew!
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


PUFF and am# a/waaa amefa
sd
Ready-to-roll
CIGARETTE
TOBACCO
“NIMROD” ready-to-roll cigarette tobacco is tops in smoking
pleasure. Made from extra high-grade leaf, it provides a cool
and fragrant smoke that is pleasing to the most discerning
palate. We believe that you will get greater smoking satisfaction
with “NIMROD,” the tobacco that retains its flavour right to
the last.
Sole Distributors:
“NIMROD” special ready-to-roll cigarette
mixture is exclusive to Andrew McGee,
Sydney’s foremost tobacconist. Write or
call for your supply, 2 oz. pack 3/3J; 26/4 lb.
Please add postage —1/6 per lb. N.S.W.J 2/-
per lb. other States.
Andrew M-Gee
1 CASTLEREAGH STREET and 70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Adequate
Supplies
Always Available
Estab: 1887
'4*
N
.
&
O'
<0
“Eremophila”: Our front garden is a
space 12 yards by five within three walls
of boobyallas which have grown to tree-
like dimensions because a scooped
channel floods the garden with the rain
run-off from the surrounding bare clay
slopes. The fourth wall is a scanty
veranda - curtain of morning - glory.
Ordinarily the garden supports two
geraniums and two lantanas. But this
year we’ve had rain after rain, from the
tropical storms that erased the Alice
Springs line a few miles to the north
to contemporary spring showers. And
the garden has. become a green jungle
composed of what a suburban lawn-
clipper would call weeds. But on this
sunburned slice of S.A. greenery is such
a precious thing that we’ve let it grow.
There are plants of Salvation Jane-
alias Viper’s Bugloss, alias Patterson’s
Curse—over 4ft. high, the blue flame of
their blossoms thrown against golden-
mustard flowers almost as high. A foot
lower the scarlet, hop-like flowers of a
naturalised dock are ranged in banks
against the silver-green of the ’Jane
leaves. Three adventurous rabbits have
found their way into the jungle, where
they feed and play fearlessly. The boob-
yalla is alive with waxbills, and a song-
lark apparently lives on the short
wireless-pole stuck in the hedge. But the
whole green island belongs to a pair of
singing honey-eaters that rollick and
whistle through the spring days. Lawns
and flower-beds? Bah!
* * * *
“Horseless H”: I back the blackbird
for acute hearing. Watched a golden-
billed male bird stride over a rain-sodden
lawn. Suddenly it stopped dead and
tilted its head to one side as though listen-
ing; then it advanced a
few steps, jabbed its
beak into the ground and
seized an earthworm.
It just put enough
tension on the extremity
of the elongated
wriggler to tire its
resistant strength until
it came out intact. A bird that can hear
the bristle-like hairs on a worm’s body
as it moves along wet underground
tunnels would hear a ghost whispering in
Hades.
* * * * *
“Carver”: If “The Bunyip” and
“North” (B. 23/8/’5O) wgnt a real micro-
sideshow, why not make it a movie?
Take a tadpole and anaesthetise the
blighter. For brief durations one and a
quarter to two and a half per cent, of
ether shaken up in water will put the
pollywog to sleep in short order. If the
local doctor is a co-operative bird, how-
ever, a one or two per cent, solution of
urethane is more reliable. As soon as
the taddy remains motionless when
prodded, remove it to a wet microslide
and examine at 100 to 200 diameters,
focusing the microscope on the trans-
parent tail-web at about the end of the
caudal musculature. The frog’s red
blood-corpuscles are, unlike their mam-
malian counterparts, large, oval-nucleated
cells. And these can be seen playing
follow-my-leader through the tiny vessels
in the transparent tissues. A inain
arterial stem passes down the centre of
the tail, supplying the muscles centrally
and the web peripherally. You see the
chain of cells in the terminal arterioles
moving in communal jerks like strap-
hangers in a jolting tram in response to
the contractions of the distant heart.
Where a branch leads out into, the web
the cells stream along, gradually losing
their impetus, to return by clearly visible
capillaries and venules to the tiny main
venous trunk accompanying the central
muscles. There is no better demonstra-
tion of the busy life in apparently inert
“Are you going to let her out when she's properly run-in, Jim?"
tissue. And the beauty of it is that a
whole afferent-efferent circuit can be
seen in the micro-field at 100 diameters.
* * * *
“Biime”: Stan had been working for
Dad Simpson only three months, but in
that time the amount of loss he’d seen
had. him worried. Every night he
pegged-out the rabbitskins as directed,
and when each batch was dry Dad
collected and piled th£m in a corner of
the shed, where they were promptly
chewed to bits by rats. Hides and fox-
pelts went the same way. Killing the
weekly mutton, the boss carefully kept
the skin clean, then carried it in to hang
over the rail in the shed out of the
weather. A few days, and all that re-
mained was loose wool that blew under
the floor to build against the accumula-
tion of years. Then a travelling skin-
buyer arrived, and Stan sought Dad.
“Bloke in a truck buying skins,” he
said. “There’s that batch we took off the
wires this morning, and the killer you
hung up last night. You could sell those.”
Dad looked thoughtful. “Which buyer is
it?” he asked. “Name o’ Walters, from
Dogtown? Bloke that was round buyin’
before the war?” “That’s him.” “Well,
tell him we got none, will y’? That coot
was nilly always a penny a pound under
the other buyers,” growled the old bloke,
“and, cripes, I ain’t sellin’ me stuff f’r
less ’n its value.”
* * * *
“Lindisfarne”: To Frank Aspiri, prince
of hunters, goes the-honor of bringing
in, single-handed, a live 10ft. crocodile
he found struggling in his net in the
Tully River. By boat and truck he
brought the saurian to the Hotel
Kingora, where it was tethered for the
night and its head thoroughly wet accord-
ing to ancient custom. Next day it was
railed to Mt. St. John Zoo, but the marks
of its teeth are still on the post of the
beer-garden. Not on record, however,
are the waking thoughts of a local
drunk who “came to” a few feet from
the enraged reptile.
* * * *
“Herbert Dawson” : Ted Perrett gets
some raw town-lads working on his
Dawson-side cattlerun at times. Having
a well-developed sense of humor sticks
to him. Recently two new arrivals set
out down the horse-paddock for a Sun-
day-morning hunt armed to the teeth.
Having successfully got within range of
an absent-minded emu, they brought him
to earth with a fusillade in which marks-
manship was heavily seasoned with luck.
The problem of transport then present-
ing itself, one of the sportsmen solved it
to his temporary satisfaction by extract-
ing a couple of lengths of strong cord
from his pocket and, with his mate’s
assistance, tying the deceased fowl by
the neck and legs to the “Ds” on the
side of his saddle. The old horse, feed-
ing with his head buried in the long
grass, having been subjected to many
and varied loads in his time, merely
swayed a bit to the side as the low-
hanging corpse—a mere foot clear of the
ground—imposed its lopsided weight.
When the exultant Nimrod clambered
aboard the venerable moke gave a casual
glance round in mild protest against the
ill-trimmed cargo. Then he took another
quick look to make sure that what he
had seen he really had seen. There was
some sort of atomic explosion, and the
rejuvenated steed lit out for somewhere
else. The emu struck against logs and
stumps, and grey feathers filled the air.
At every second stride the nag planted a
“cow-kick” which sent more feathers and
assorted bits of emu flying. “What’ll I
do?” yelled the terrified rider. “Stick to
him,” counselled his mate from far be-
hind. The question of procedure was
settled by an overhanging sandalwood
limb which clawed the hunter from his
precarious seat. The emu’s weight tore
the “Ds” from the saddle as the flying
steed, kicking through a haze of floating
feathers, won free and sought the Sab-
bath peace elsewhere.
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: Hori was annoyed with
his 16-year-old son Hatti. “He won’t cut
his toenails,” the old
Maori complained.
“So twice now he wet
te ped for te wahine
to mop up.” “What
have long toenails to
do with a wet bunk?”
I asked. Hori sighed.
“T’ey so sharp t’ey
puncture te hot-water
pag in te night; so
now he got to use hot brick as te toe-
warmer.”
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Those exponents of
the merits and demerits of tea-tree have
overlooked two things. Hard as the
coastal tea-tree of southern Australia is,
it won’t last five years in the ground
without going to powder ; yet this timber
makes the best baker’s wood known in
Victoria. In Port Phillip until 20 years
ago a fleet of ketches backloaded from
Rye and Canterbury jetties hundreds of
tons of this 2ft. firewood to the Yarra,
where it all went to bakers. The last of
these vessels were the ketches Rosetta
and Evion and the schooner Woolamai.
* * * *
“Wondalga”: The late August
Eichorn, the snakeman from Adelong
(N.S.W.) who acquired quite a reputa-
tion in the treatment of blood-poisoning,
used to back his claim that snake-poison
crystallises at blood-heat by his own test.
He would place a small bottle containing
snake-venom, with thermometer attached,
at the bottom of a mining shaft for 24
hours. The temperature of course did
not reach 98 degrees, and the poison re-
mained liquid. Next he would place the
bottle and its silent recorder in a tem-
perature of blood-heat, with the result he
had expected; the poison crystallised.
The antidote treatment should, he con-
tended, aim at preventing the poison from
coagulating, and this he claimed to effect
by drinking a copious dose of his antidote
and applying it to the wound after the
necessary precaution of scarifying and
sucking it. The drinking of the mixture
set the heart violently to work, thus
driving the poison through the blood-
vessels. Eichorn survived 105 bites by
tigers, browns and blacks. Another
theory of Eichorn’s was that a snake kept
for some time on a board-floor lost its
power to generate poison, but that when
placed back on the earth it quickly re-
gained its potency.
* * * *
“North”: It was a warm spring even-
ing, but dull and grey with a threat of
rain. The missus went outside, saw a
couple of dark bobbing shapes on the
ridge behind the house, muttered
“Emus,” and grabbed the rifle. The
western clouds parted at that moment and
a ray of light revealed that the emus
wore hats. The missus was still looking
for my private medicinal bottle when
the “emus” —very large and hairy-legged
—turned up at the back door. Half an
hour later another mob of Boy Scouts
turned up. Then some feminine hikers.
Then more knobby-knees, until our
empty landscape was sprinkled with con-
torted forms humped under packs. Hik-
ing from the ranges to the east —all well-
watered, easy country, unlike the sand-
hill belt stretching west to Lake Torrens
—the mob was converging on the little,
unattended siding half a mile from the
house. When I went down with the mail-
bag in the light rain pup-tents were up
in the very lowest spot in the swamp, a
possie submerged in rain and crawling
with snakes in drier spring weather. But
again Providence was kind, the rain
stopped and, I presume, Demansia tex-
tilis, D. nuchalis and Pseudechis australis
stayed at home.
THE OARSMAN.
The rowing-boat by lazy strokes
Over the placid river draws,
With turning rowlocks’ muttered ease
And spill of pearls from feathered oars.
Each lifting impulse drives the bow
By pause and thrust and pause to make
A dialogue of wood and water
Ending in bubbles in the wake.
The oarsman rests and yields his flesh
In weariness to the sun’s embrace,
And in* the magic silence there
Turns his own to summer’s face;
And, dreaming, feels a Grecian oar
Bite at waves of a south-west gale:
A trireme walking at Salamis
To challenge Xerxes’ thousand sail.
Eight-score and ten the oarsmen strain,
Casting astern a lash of foam;
The living trireme plunges on
And with vermilion beak strikes home.
Tensing, he wakes and grasps a stroke
But all as before unaltered finds,
Save the river which gently stirs
To shallow breaths of ancient winds.
n.s.w.
ALEC BOLTON.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
Specialised Knowledge of
Estate Management
rpHE financial assets built up during the life-
time of a Testator may present, on his death,
a maze of difficulties beyond the comprehension
of the inexperienced executor.
Efficient Estate administration demands
specialised knowledge of legal, property and
probate matters. Sixty-five years of experience
in handling all Estate problems is available at
moderate charges, when the Union Trustee is
appointed as Executor either solely or jointly
with a relative or friend.
Call for a confidential interview—or write for
your copy of “Important Facts Concerning
Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney: 398-402 Queen
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
(Established 1885)
St.. Brisbane
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
flew Zealand Insurance Co.
To Re-
May, Profit.! Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z.
1940.. 346,718 10 p.c. = 150.000 106,718 2,336,988
1941.. 392,346 12! „ „ 187,500 204,846 2,541,834
1942.. 415.877 12! „ „ 187,500 228,377 2,770,211
1943.. 624,124 12! „ „ 187,500 436,624 3,206,835
1944.. 542,440 12! „ » 187,500 354,940 3,561,775
1945.. 396,800 12! „ „ 187,500 209,300 3,771,075
Peace bonus, 12! P-c., £187,500 .. 3,583,575
1946.. 458,529 12!p.e.= 187,500 271,029 3,854,604
1947.. 93’1,979 12! „ ~187,500 744,479 4,599,083
1948.. 994,052 12! „ ~ 187,500 806,552 5,405,635
Less exchange adjustments, etc.
£1,217,780 4,187,855
1949.. 796,138 15 p.c. = 225,000 571,138 4,758,993
Unexplained additions, £414,484 .. 5,173,477
Add exchange adjustments, £216,000.. 5,389,477
1950.. 689,910 15 p.c. = 225,000 464,910 5,854,387
t Includes net additions to reserve for unexpired risks.
Few equities rank higher, in the invest-
ment category than scrip in a sound,
old-established and progressive insurance
office like this N.Z. co. That is because
the policy of profits-allocation ensures
strong reserves, with consequent high
earning-power in relation to capital, and,
at intervals, increases in the amount dis-
tributed ag dividends and the issue of
bonus scrip. Certainly underwriting runs
into bad patches at times, but overall the
theory of averages has worked well. And
mostly the div. is covered, more or less,
by returns from a wad of Government
and other sound securities, leaving the
underwriting surplus available to swell
investments and the returns therefrom.
Shareholders in this Auckland-
controlled office, which has world-wide
connections, have reaped some rich
harvests in the past. Of the £1,500,000
of paid capital, £1,200,000 has come from
reserves since 1912. And for the 38 years
to the close of last accounts divs. have
averaged 11.7 p.c., and reserves, including
£2,700,000 for unexpired risks, now total
£5,854,387. Also, last term’s net return
from investments (£235,463, after deduct-
ing taxation) alone exceeded the 15 p.c.
div. by £10,463.
About four-fifths of the business is
done outside the Dominion in Australia,
Canada, U.S., U.K., Africa, Middle East,
India, Pakistan, Eastern Asia and the
Argentine. Continued expansion of acti-
vities, helped by the growth of inventories
and rise in values, sent last term’s net
premium income up by £263,946:
Loss Expens*
Net Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
£N.Z. £N.Z. • £N.Z.
1939.. 1,405,787 910,489 377,632 64.8 26.8
1942. . 2,079,841 1,140,948 647,966 54.8 32.1
1944.. 2,522,086 1,247,031 926,199 49.4 36.7
1945.. 2,348,238 1,273,796 865,175 54.2 36.2
1946. . 2,398,939 1,343,909 786,477 56.0 32.8
1947.. 3,162,310 1,601,098 822,584 50.6 26.0
1948. . 4,389,856 2,746,296 888,191 62.6 20.2
1949. . 4,018,300 2,344,464 1,069,525 58.3 26.6
1950.. 4,282,246 2,562,710 1,265,089 59.8 29.5
The loss rate, over which the management
has little direct control, increased by 30s.
p.c., and the expense rate, which is still
moderate, went up by 58s. p.c., due mostly
to the rise in costs generally and partly
to expansion.
The slip in the year’s gross underwriting
surplus (£454,447) was £149,864, which
was partly offset by an increase of
£43,634 in the return from investments
(£235,463). Total profit was thus
£106,228 short of the previous year’s at
£689,910, But that was before allowing
for uncxpired risks, which on the usual
40 p.c. basis would reduce the net under-
writing surplus to £348,869, and the net
return from all sources to £584,332,
which is equal to 38.9 p.c. on capital com-
pared with 43.3, 33.5 and 47.1 p.c. for
the three preceding years. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the £584,332 was equal to only
7.9 p.c.
The solid protection for both policy-
holders and shareholders is seen in the
following comparison of balance-sheet
figures:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
£N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z.
Paid capital 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities.. 1,483,185 1,730,255 1,703,051 2,121,996
Public securi-
ties .. 4,397,963 4,084,068 8,773,547 4,458,526
Mortgages.. 83,829 214,704 206,456 347,412
Shares, etc. 1,092,780 1,640,167 1,676,798 1,991,764
Freeholds.. 707,213 780,665 734,861 861,662
Agency bal-
ances and
cash .. 1,412,983 1,803,009 1,720,382 1,929,518
The year’s net additions of £126,801 to
freeholds and £209,136 to agency
balances, etc., mainly reflect expansion,
while growths of £684,979 in public
securities, £140,956 in mortgages and
£314,966 in industrial shareholdings, etc.,
augur well for further improvement in
the return from investments.
On Sydney ’Change the f.-p. pound
shares, which fetched 115 s. a year ago,
'sold at 1375. 6d. last week. At the higher
figure the return in Australian currency
on a 15 p.c. div. basis is only 2.7 p.c. at
the current rate of exchange. The
investor who looks for 3.6 p.c, on his
money counts on a 20 p.c. div., or other
benefits. Any appreciation of the Aus-
tralian pound would reduce the return
from, and the local market-value of, the
investment,
Peters American Delicacy (Sydney)
To
June. Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 87,537 8.9 p.c. = 72,991 14,546 360,806
1941.. 77,306 8.9 „ „ 74,498 2,808 363,614
1942.. 70,637 8 „ „ 66,751 . 3,886 867,500
1943.. 83,825 9 „ „ 75,095 8,730 376,230
1944.. 85,478 9 „ „ 75,095 10,383 386,613
Inner reserves disclosed, £37,850 .. 424,463
Prom tax reserve, £20,000 .. .. 444,463
1945.. 86,166 9 p.c. = 75,095 11,071 455,534
1946.. 87,076 9 „ „ 75,681 11,395 466,929
1947.. 86,591 9 „ „ 76,566 10,025 476,954
Profit, sale of assets, £2300 .. 479,254
1948.. 96,898 9 p.c. = 78,045 18,853 498,107
1949.. 98,009 9 „ „ 78,648 19,421 517,528
1950.. 100,508 10 „ „ 87,387 13,121 530,649
This big holding concern keeps the
curtain drawn over the figures of its
principal operating cos., and its own
accounts don’t tell more than they have
to, which isn’t much. The position as
balance-sheet figures show it is as fol-
lows: —
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £873,874 £873,874 £873,874
Creditors* ~ .. 9,976 9,090 7,359
Final div 39,321 39,324 48,063
Shares other cos., etc. 121,098 121,328 107,516
Shares in subsidiaries 1,217,065 1,257,065 1,259,065
Debtors .. .. 1,630 300 300
Cash and bonds .. 81,485 61,123 95,064
* Includes provision for taxation.
Holdings in subsidiaries (unchanged last
term) are Peters Ice Cream Pty.
£1,000,000, Peters Creameries Pty.
£175,000, Peters Ice Cream (S. Aus.) Pty.
£25,000, Peters Refrigeration Pty. £15,000
and other subsidiaries £42,065.
Investors, therefore, know little of the
real position. Still, mindful of the pleas-
ing history of the business, its post-war
expansion (not yet complete) and its grip
upon the trade, the market is prepared to
back the management, whose declared
policy is to “consolidate and expand
activities in a manner best calculated to
maintain internal strength and enable
payment of a constant rate of dividend.”
After allowing an extra £36,142 for
depreciation (£142,616) and setting aside
an additional £9848 for taxation (£66,400),
the operating cos. sent along enough last
term for the parent to show its best
profit yet (£100,508, up £2439). It was
11.5 p.c. on capital as against 11.2, 11,
10.1 and 10.3 p.c. for the four preceding
years. The div. was lifted from 9 p.c. to
10 p.c. And there is reason to believe
there was more wheat in the ear than
the eye could see.
Following publication of the accounts
the price of the f.-p. 14s. shares rose
from 395. 6d. to 41s. 9d. in the market,
where the figure stood at 345. a year ago.
At 41s. 9d. the return is 3.3 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div, basis. Net tangible cover (parent’s
accounts only) is 325. Id. The market is
obviously prepared to wait for its benefits.
Backbone of the group is the Ice
Cream co., which made a one-for-one
bonus scrip issue when it took over the
parent’s ice-cream business in 1939. Last
term turnover continued to expand,
especially in country areas, where
additional depots are being erected and
more sites are to be purchased. Also,
modern packing machinery, which will
“involve heavy capital expenditure,” is
being installed. And “full provision was
made for all commitments prior to
finalising the accounts.”
The creamery, at Taree, reports a
record intake of milk, a large proportion
of which went to the Metropolitan
Milk Board. This offshoot is “earning
profits on its external trade, limited only
by the volume of milk available for pro-
cessing.” Also, it recently threw off a
subsidiary of its own, Peters Creameries
(Grafton) Pty., scheduled to begin opera-
tions in the coming spring. The idea is
to ensure adequate supplies of raw
materials to the ice-cream co. and to
Foley Bros., an associate which reports a
peak production of butter from its
Lismore and Mullumbimby factories.
Main purpose of the recently-formed
refrigeration subsidiary, which is already
enlarging its factory, is to centralise
manufacture, repair and servicing of the
ice-cream co.’s power cabinets, which
have been very helpful in maintaining
sales.
The Adelaide co. remains inoperative
owing to building restrictions. Peters
(Vic.), Peters (W.A.), Peters Arctic (Q.)
and Peters Arctic (N.Q.) are all financially
well-ribbed associates which maintained
their dividend rates last term.
Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney)
t Dividends Nominal
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. servest
£ £ £ £
1941 .. 37,497 1980 7!p.C.= 35,025 155,108
1942 .. 37,008 1980 7! „ ~ 35,025 155,111
1943 .. 49,852 1980 8 „ „ 37,360 165,623
1944 .. 59,635 1980 8 „ „ 37,360 185,918
1945 .. 62,360 1980 8 „ „ 37,360 208,938
1946 ~ 54,441 1980 8 37,360 224,039
1947 .. 33,545 1980 7 „ „ 32,690 222,914
Reserves drawn upon, £lO,OOO .. 212,914
1948 .. 27,105 1980 6 p.c. = 28,020 210,019
Reserves drawn upon, £lO,OOO .. 200,019
1949 .. 27,345 1980 6 p.c. = 28,020 197,364
1950 ~ 30,342 1980 6 „ „ 28,020 197,706
t Subject to goodwill, £25,000, and excluding de-
preciation reserve (£150,000 as at June SO, 1950).
The Australia is one of the largest and
most fashionable hotels in the Common-
wealth. And over the last five boom
years the country has enjoyed an
expanding national income and “full”
employment at high and rising wage
rates, which has meant free spending, a
brisk bar and lounge trade and high level
of guest occupancy. Yet, during this
period the co.’s net earnings have been
more than cut in halves, and the div. has
been reduced from 8 p.c. to 6 p.c. That
was because wage and other costs,
especially on the catering side, rose
faster than turnover, which has been held
down by controlled tariff rates.
One of the most perplexing problems
the management has had to solve has
been maintenance of a high standard of
comfort and service—the backbone of
goodwill in this class of hotel —in the
face of the relatively rapid staff turnover
inseparable from the sellers’ market for
labor. And some of these services yield
little or no profit, while their cost has
been greatly increased by wage-lifts and
the 40-hour week.
Despite the restriction of travel and
other difficulties caused by the nation-
wide coal strike early in the last term, the
board was able to show £2997 more
profit. That was after allowing the usual
£lO,OOO for depreciation and £22,000 (up
£2000) for taxation. The £30,342 of
profit claimed (best for the last three
years) covered the pref. div. and £342
more than 6 p.c. on the £467,003 of ord.
capital called for, compared with 5.4,
5,3, 6.7, 11.3 and 12.9 p.c. back to 1945.
And there is nothing in the published
accounts to suggest that the co. did any
better than was claimed.
The excess of outside liabilities over
more-or-less liquids was reduced by
£10,248, due mainly to the allowance for
depreciation (now £150,000), which is not
included with the lay-by in the table:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Stock .. £5,798 £9,879 £9,334 £11,145
Book debts.. 7,217 14,062 10,368 16,459
Cash, etc. .. 81,850 61,850 55,535 52,500
Liquid assets £94,865 £85,791 £75,237 £80,104
Mortgage .. 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Creditors* .. 69,796 68,287 60,387 54,913
Excess
liabilities.. £124,931 £132,496 £135,150 £124,809
Property and
equipment.. 962,517 962,517 962,517 962,517
Paid capital 500,003 500,003 500,003 500,003
* Including tax provision.
Fixed assets remain unchanged; much
therefore depends upon what was spent
on maintenance, etc., and charged against
earnings.
Although the present expansive out-
look augurs well for spending and hotel
turnovers, it also poses new problems
of costs in relation to income, especially
on the catering side. And the cheapening
of the Australian pound in terms of
dollars has not yet had any marked effect
upon the flow of American tourist traffic
to Australia. Appearances are that the
bar and lounge trade will remain the chief
contributors of net earnings, and that
nothing better than 6 p.c. need be looked
for at present. Costs continue to spiral
and the co.’s charges remain controlled.
The f.-p. £1 ords. recently rose from
245. 9d. to 275. 6d. in the market. On
the basis of last term’s distribution the
return at the higher figure is 4.4 p.c. The
prefs. at 265. yield 4.6 p.c. Net tangible
cover (book-value) is £2l 2s. lid. prefs.
and 28s. sd. ords.
South Australian Portland Cement
June 30, Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
£ p.c. £ £
1942 .. 12,186 10 12,000 81,187
1943 .. 10,544 8J 10,500 81,231
1944 .. 13,710 8| 10,500 84,441
1945 ... 7,745 5 6,000 86,186
From inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. 96,186
1946 . . 12,728 7! 9,000 99,914
1947 .. 11,481 74 9,000 102,395
1948 . . 15,012 7! 9,000 108,407
Share premiums, £12,221 .. 120,628
1949 ~ 15,323 7! 10,900 125,051
1950 .. 17,688 7J 13,561 129,178
To staff fund, £1632 .. ... 127,546
On the demand side the co.’s prospects
are brighter than at any time since it
first began to manufacture cement at
Brighton, near Adelaide, 59 years ago.
Though shareholders have never skimmed
much cream from the business, they have
had divs. averaging 8.4 p.c. over the last
25 years, and only once during that period
(in 1931) were they passed by.
Present capacity of the Brighton plant
is 45,000 tons p.a. The only other com-
petitor in the State is Adelaide Cement,
plant capacity 60,000 tons. Current
demand is estimated to be over 150,000
tons p.a., and can be expected to increase
considerably with the growth of popula-
tion and industrial activity in South Aus-
tralia, and when the Government’s big
programme of public works, which will
take years to complete, gets under way.
So, after negotiations for a merger with
the Adelaide co. failed, it was decided in
1948 to increase plant capacity to 145,000
tons p.a.; and the co. expects to reach
this target within the next three years.
The new plant, first sections of which
are due for delivery this month, is to be
erected at Angaston, where a limestone
quarry was bought from 1.G.1. a couple
of years ago. The kiln now operating at
Brightpn, together with bagging equip-
ment, etc., is to be transferred to the new
site. To help meet the outlay 243,255 new
£1 shares were issued at a premium of ss.
each in Dec., 1948. Only £60,814 of the
new capital and £12,221 of the premiums
thereon had been gathered at June 30
last, the balance being due in three equal


BMI4
FONDE
*
EN 1724
RE MY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:~ -•
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l,
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advi.
df
MAKE YOUR
MONEY
EARN MORE
sdf
Invest in
ELECTRICITY
BONDS
{frens f&day
CITY ELECTRIC
LIGHT CO. LTD. (BRISBANE)
NEW ISSUE OF
£BOO.OOO
First Mortgage Inscribed Stock and
Registered Debentures with interest at
£ 3/6/3%
FOR 14 YEARS
FREE OF EXCHANGE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Principal repayable 31st January, 1964, subject to the
Company’s right of earlier repayment in the event of the
Queensland Government exercising its right of acquisition
on Ist February, 1954, or thereafter.
NINE GOOD REASONS
Why Everyone With £5O or More Should Invest NOW I
1. BETTER THAN BANK
INTEREST* You will receive
interest at the rate of
£3/6/3% for the fourteen
years of the loan and thus,
your investment returns you
much better than bank inte-
rest.
2. A GILT-EDGED INVEST-
MENT* This loan ranks with
previous Issues totalling
£2,012,000. It is secured as
a floating first charge over
the whole of the Queensland
assets of the Company.
S. REPAYABLE IN FULL*
Principal will be repaid in
full on 31st January, 1964,
or earlier, subject to the
Company’s right of repay-
ment should the Queensland
Government exercise its
right of acquisition on or
after Ist February, 1954.
4, TANGIBLE ASSETS* Net
tangible assets backing the
loan (and your investment)
are £317 for every £lOO of
stock and debentures of this
and previous Issues.
5. SINKING FUND! £1 per
cent, per annum of the
amount of the issue Is to
be held by the Trustee for
the Stock and Debenture
Holders.
6. INTEREST FREE OF
EXCHANGE! Interest will
be paid half-yearly on 31st
January and 31st July in
each year, free of exchange.
First payment to be made
by warrant from date of
allotment to 31st July, 1951.
7. MINIMUM INVESTMENT,
£5O! You need not be a largo
investor to participate. Any-
one with £5O or more can
subscribe. And remember,
you get better than bank
interest.
8. EASY INSTALMENTS! If
you desire, you may pay in
full or iii two instalments.
All subscriptions accepted
free of exchange.
9. READILY SALEABLE*
Gilt-edged securities in every
sense of the term, your In-
scribed Stock or Debentures
may be sold on the Stock
Exchange at any time.
THIS LOAN IS A TRUSTEE SECURITY IN QUEENSLAND!
Share capital totals £5,680,433.
Gross assets exceed £10,000,000.
APPLY NOW! Prospectus Is available from, and applica-
tions may be lodged direct with any office of the English,
Scottish and Australian Bank Ltd., and the National Bank
of Australasia Ltd. (Bankers for the issue) throughout
Queensland and at Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Hobart,
Launceston, Newcastle, and the Northern Rivers Districts of
New South Wales.
LOAN UNDERWRITTEN BY lAN POTTER & CO.,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.)
LOAN CLOSES NOT LATER THAN 16th OCTOBER, 1950.
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
mm
m
Simple
and
Ueliable
We are the patentees and manutacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers ,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
If any illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
lots in Jan., 1951, June, 1951,
and Jan., 1952.
Here are balance - sheet
figures;
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. 120,000 180,814 180,814
Overdraft .. 18,546
S’ndry creditors* 30,487 30,975 37,513
Tax reserve .. 769 769 1,744
Pinal div. . . 4,500 6,400 6,781
Freehold land 13,587 13,595 15,963
Buildings, plant,
etc 125,842 131,191 139,684
Stocks .. 39,153 47,270 56,699
Book debts .. 23,728 19,078 28,742
Govt, securities,
etc 61,853 132,875 131,856
* Includes provision for taxation.
To meet the year’s net addition
of £10,861 to fixed assets (mainly
in connection with the Angaston
project), carry an extra £9429
of stocks and add £9664 to
book debts the co. went to its
bankers for £18,546 and added
£6538 to the amount coming to
sundry creditors, etc. When the
books closed there was
£231,034 of new share and
premium moneys to come, and
£131,856 was held in Govern-
ment securities, etc., a total of
£362,890. Whether shareholders
will ultimately be asked for more
depends upon the final cost of
the Angaston project, which has
increased considerably since
estimates were prepared. The
board recently declined an offer
of further financial assistance
from the Government on the
grounds that those on the’ register
should be “given the oppor-
tunity to follow the co.’s de-
velopments through to a
successful conclusion.”
Meanwhile, nothing better
than a p.c. div. need be looked
for. Future profits will depend
largely upon the savings in costs
that are expected to follow in-
stallation and operation of the
new plant. Last term the co.
sold all the cement it could turn
out, and a lift in controlled
selling-prices took care of the
advance in costs. Including an
unexplained addition of £1327 to
reserves, the profit (£17,688, up
£2365) was 9.7 p.c. on average
capital as against 10.5, 12.5, 9.5
and 10.6 p.c. back to 1946.
The f.-p. pound ords. at
345. 6d. return 4.3 p.c. on a
p.c. div. basis. On the same
basis the contribs. at 11s. 6d.
would return 5 p.c. when fully
paid. Net tangible cover (includ-
ing uncalled capital, etc.) is
255. Bd.
Central Victoria Dredging (Vic.)
The co. has put up an en-
couraging performance under
very difficult conditions. Its first
dredge, a new 2,000,000-c.y.-
р. electric machine, set in on
some 10,500,000 c.y., bored to
average 2.5 gr. gold, on the
Jim Crow area, near Newstead,
on Dec. 15, 1949., At March 28
last it had turned over 358,141
с. digging to an average depth
of 19.2 ft., for 20780 z. fine gold,
an average of 2.78 gr. a yard.
The ground was thus worth
21.52 d. a yard with gold at
£l5 9s. 3d. an ounce. Working
costs, including 2.35 d. for de-
ferred dredge maintenance, etc.,
totalled 9.4 d. a yard. After
allowing for administrative exes.,
etc., the profit was £19,105, or
4.9 p.c. on the £390,000 of paid
capital, That was after capi-
talising £4678 of exes, incurred
prior to commencement of dig-
ging. Since the close of accounts
the digging rate has improved,
and values have been well main-
tained. When this dredge is able
to work to capacity, or there-
abouts, there should be a
marked improvement in earning-
power, provided costs, which are
still rising, don’t get out of hand.
The co.’s second machine is
expected to commence digging
about the end of 1950 on a
limited scale on the Amphi-
theatre area, where over
20,000,000 c.y., bored to average
2.4 gr., await treatment. It is a
175,000-c.y.-a-month all-electric
outfit bought from Victoria
Gold Dredging Co. To complete
extensions to the pontoon and
superstructure the co, had to im-
port a lot of steel and fabricate
it in its own workshops at New-
stead. The makers of the pipe-
line, which is to bring water to
the dredge from the Avoca
deep-leads, have also had to get
steel from Britain at greatly in-
creased cost. Since the prospec-
tus was issued options have been
exercised over a lease upstream
on this area, and further ground
downstream is expected to
warrant digging.
At end March last dredges,
etc., stood in the books at
£253,145; leases, other land,
buildings, etc., £118,405; sundry
plant, £10,523 ; stores, £16,956 ;
and cash, bullion, debtors, etc.,
£25,819. There was £13,057 com-
ing to outsiders.
The f.-p. 10s, shares, which
fetched 31s. early in 1950, sold
at 245. 9d. last week.
* V * *
Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd.,
the wholly-owned subsidiary of
London-controlled Wiluna Gold
Corp., Ltd., is putting up the
shutters ; this because recent geo-
logical developments suggest that
its principal prospect, the Mt.
Charlotte property, Kalgoorlie
(W.A.), is unlikely to become
a payable proposition on a
large scale with costs (which
are still rising) at their present
level. The subsidiary (paid capi-
tal £1,773,000) was floated in
1926 to work a large twin-lode
auriferous deposit at Wiluna
(W.A.), where it mined and
treated 7,345,440 tons ore for
1,318,1420 z. gold and paid divs.
totalling p.c., the last being
in 1936. In its heyday the co.
was one of the largest pro-
ducers in the West. The
ore-bodies became progressively
impoverished at depth, and
underground operations ceased
at the end of 1946. After that
retreatment of some 400,000
tons of refractory calcine resi-
dues kept the pot boiling. Mean-
while, managing-director H. H.
Carroll and his team made some
valuable contributions to the in-
dustry in connection with the
treatment of gold-antimony-
arsenic ores. At June 30 last the
co, was reported to be holding
cash and other readily-realis-
able securities totalling
£A984,056. Accounts for the
year to March 31 are to be pre-
sented in London about the end
of this month, when proposals
for winding-up the parent
corporation (paid capital
£1,559,012) are also to be sub-
mitted to shareholders. The
corp.’s £1 shares recently fetched
13s. 6d. in the local market.
* * * *
After firing three shots in the
bore between approximately
3000 ft. and 4000 ft., Freney Oil
(W.A.) has got the obstructed
portion of drill-pipe free, but
isn’t sure whether it will be able
to withdraw the freed portion.
So a whipstock is being pre-
pared to sidetrack the obstruction
at about 3550 ft., and should be
completed in a few weeks.
Superintendent McKillop says he
can advance the bore from this
point to 6000 ft. in about 50 days’
actual drilling.


*• ;
m,
0
(MSecJiA^^ytuzha
CL p(l atAj
(ScrcktcuJLy . . .
It’s simple as A.B.C.
You’ll find the recipe
in the NEW 1950
Vickers Cocktail Book,
with dozens more
sweet, medium and dry
cocktails and cooling
long drinks.
With the new Vickers
Cocktail Book you'll
learn how easy all
drinks are to prepare
—and how many dif-
ferent kinds you can
make from the simplest
ingredients.
Vickers gin
200 YEARS OF TRADITION, 17504950
WRITE FOR YOUR FREE
COPY of 1950 Vickers Cock-
tail Book to The United Distil-
lers Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 759 G,
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. It
will be mailed promptly, post
free.
3 people in 5 choose Vickers.
The greatest name in Gin from
Australia’s greatest distillery.
1
'm
m
I.
VG32/1*
m
’kin
Jk
m
9
V 'I
r& I V
f'
V^>
1 A H T * I £ M P I * E A/UIMrJ
Australia's INTERNATIONAL Airline
in association with British Overseas Airways Corporation
For Business
and Pleasure —•
FLYt.
HONG
KONG
in less than 2 days
Fastest route to Hong Kong is
by Q.E.A. Service, via Darwin
and Labuan (North Borneo).
You fly in comfort by modern
Skymaster with first class
steward service and enjoy
delightful quick frozen meals,
served hot in the air,
Regular fortnightly services
from Sydney.
Enquire now about new
interchange air - sea tours
from your local Travel
Agent.
a £ a
INFLATION AND A DOUBLE-DISSOLUTION.
In the last few weeks infla-
tion in Australia has been head-
line news. The opening of the
new-season wool sales with
prices more than 50 p.c. higher
than in 1949-50 has merely em-
phasised a situation which has
been developing for a decade,
and of which full warning has
been given in these pages for
almost as long. Public attention
generally began to be drawn, by
disconcerting economic events,
to the inflation problem in 1949.
This year developments have
been even more insistent in em-
phasising the inflation problem.
In th& daily Press various
authorities ascribe the present
inflation menace to various
causes. High export prices and
our immigration policy are fre-
quently mentioned. But our
problem is a much deeper and
more complex one than that.
The inflation we see today is
the manifestation of a politico-
economic disease that has been
attacking us ever since war be-
gan, and to which recent ex-
ternal events have only added
additional energy.
Inflation in Australia is now
obviously gathering great and
menacing force. War-time credit-
expansion to finance war wast-
age, high post-war wages and
“loadings,” the 40-hour week,,a
national “full - employment”
policy regardless of production,
a world shortage of most raw
materials and a production de-
pression in the Commonwealth
are all telling an ominous tale.
And added to the foregoing
forces are the manpower unpro-
ductively employed by Govern-
ments and the social-security
payments made to non-pro-
ducers, or, at least, payments
made without a productive
return.
Behind most of this economic
demoralisation in Australia we
see the hands of the Com-.
munis ts, deliberately fostering
inflation so as to produce eco-
nomic revolution, and the
“Labor”-Socialists, who have
for many years propagated the
class-war and basely bought
votes by promising high wages
and other “benefits” for less and
less work. An inflationary con-
dition also suits Socialists be-
cause it breeds “controls.”
“Labor” has long put the
sweets of Parliamentary office
above the good of the country.
It has been a powerful force in
the lowering of the standards of
Parliamentary government and
in the scrambling of the brains
of its adherents. It has de-
veloped political bribery to a
fine art. And in doing so it has
tended to influence the standards
of other political parties.
Socialist politicians and cur-
rency theorists have long advo-
cated the idea of a managed
national paper currency in place
of the traditional gold standard
of other days. A paper cur-
rency with little or no gold back-
ing has been forced on Aus-
tralia over the past decade. But
the Socialists have not made
any serious attempt to manage
the currency in an economic
sense. They have managed it
politically, as all economists of
the gold-standard era used to
prophesy that they would, and
so we have had continuous
credit-expansion since war be-
gan in 1939..
The Menzies Government has
inherited the results of eight
years of “Labor” currency and
credit “management.” It has in-
herited a lower man-hour rate
of industrial output, a rebellious
trade-union movement and a
state of society in which thrift
has been discredited and pro-
ductive enterprise discouraged.
Unless the Chifley-led “Labor”
Opposition in Canberra changes
its views—and/or its leader —
Australia will remain the victim
of rapidly-increasing inflation —
"I'm buying it for my uncle — he's twice my size."
higher living costs, higher pro-
duction costs, less value for
money and wages, and reduced
incentives to produce. That is,
so long as “Labor” rules in the
Senate.
The “Labor” Opposition in
the Senate has held up the
Menzies Government’s legisla-
tion, regardless of its nature, in
order that the Government shall
be unable to govern.
Vital legislation held up in-
cludes the Communist-party
Dissolution Bill. Passage of this
bill is essential to the Govern-
ment’s programme of increased
production.
Increased productivity is the
chief weapon with which we
must fight inflation. It is all too
clear that too little work is being
done by too many people who
are seeking, or receiving, too
much paper money.
In the absence of a violent
change of heart by Canberrra
“Labor” —that is, a change from
wanton political manoeuvring to
co-operation in a national pro-
gramme of anti-Communism and
industrial recovery—the Menzies
Government’s plans must be
based on certain essentials.
For a start, the method of
Senate elections must be altered
by referendum.
Then there must be a double-
dissolution at the earliest oppor-
tunity in order to give the Gov-
ernment a majority in both
Houses.
Without a Senate majority the
Menzies Government cannot
govern. Yet govern it must —
and lead it must —in this most
critical period of our country’s
history.
Measures to deal with infla-
tion, sincerely and urgently sub-
mitted by the Ministry, cannot
be allowed to be made the sub-
ject of a political game in an
irresponsible Senate chamber,
where some “Labor” members
are semi-illiterate and others
have lived on their political wits
for most of their lives.
Oil-drilling in Papua
“Lemon”: The Australasian
Petroleum Co. has stated that,
at Upoia:
In view of the highly-faulted con-
dition at depth as proved by drilling,
together with the absence of porosity
and oil-indications in the formations
already penetrated, it has been decided
to abandon the test at 5356 ft.
This announcement, following
on the recent abandonment of
the first Hohoro deep test at
4721 ft. (B. 23/8/’5O), will be
disconcerting to those not con-
versant with the risks accepted
as routine by experts searching
for petroleum. The news, how-
ever, should not cause alarm,
but should be taken as further
proof that the A.P. Co. has the
courage to stop drilling when-
ever the information obtained
shows that the prospects of suc-
cess on any site do not justify
further expenditure of share-
holders’ money.
It is very easy, particularly in
the oil business, to be wise after
the event, but the failure of the
tests to achieve commercial pro-
duction at either Hohoro or
Upoia is another vindication of
the old tag —which is rather
more than a half-truth—-that
“oil is where you don’t find it
on the surface.” It should be
emphasised, however, that no
Papuan exploration for
petroleum would have bden
complete without drilling to
depth on both of these struc-
tures.
The absence of a sufficient de-
gree of porosity and perme-
ability, in the formations so far
penetrated in any well drilled by
any company in Papua, is a
serious matter and is probably
a major factor in deciding the
A.P. Co. to shift its main activi-
ties westward to the Delta area.
In this district drilling is pro-
ceeding very satisfactorily at
Wana, the well having been
deepened 1178 ft. to 7308 ft. and
6in. casing having been cemented
at 6780 ft. during August.
Further west the Island Ex-
ploration Co. has laid rig foun-
dations at Omati, and camp-
construction there is in progress.
The Oil Search interest in
A.P. Co. is 15.2 per cent, and in
the I.E. Co. 10 per cent.
Masonite Corporation, Syd-
ney and Raymond Terrace
(N.S.W.), has had an excellent
year, with the triplicated plant
fully operating for the first
time. Gross profit rose from
£181,666 to £302,960, while ad-
ministration exes, increased only
from £73,804 to £81,719. Allow-
ing £89,856 for taxation (against
£40,366) and the usual £2OOO for
directors’ fees, profit was
£129,385 for the year, compared
with £65,496 in the preceding
period. But the board set aside
£50,000 of the profit as provi-
sion for replacement of depreci-
ated assets and reserved £lO,OOO
for a staff fund, which brought
available profit for the year
down to £69,385, of which
£44,756 belonged to ord. share-
holders, £24,629 to the deferreds.
From their portion (equal to
15.6 p.c. on £287,500 of capital)
the ords. were paid an unchanged
12| p.c. A fourth press unit is
to be installed, but no capital
will be required for some con-
siderable time. Factory price of
all the co.’s products is now 20
p.c. to 30 p.c. below pre-war
levels. It is an exceptionally
efficient concern, with a high
earning potential and conserva-
tively-valued assets.


Ex-Nava!
Wanted
for 2 Years'
Service
in the R.A.N.
9
In view of the present inter-
national situation, ex-naval
men, particularly ex-chief
petty officers and ex-petty
officers of the Seaman
Branch, are invited to re-
enter for TWO YEARS’
SERVICE in the Permanent
Naval Forces.
ARE LIMIT FOR RE-ENTRY
47 YEARS
Applicants must not have
been outside the Service for
more than five years and
must have held confirmed
Able rate or above.
Men re-entering for TWO
YEARS will not become
contributors to the Defence
Forces Retirement Benefits
Fund, but will receive a
gratuity of £2O per annum,
payable on completion of a
two years’ engagement, or if
later, on discharge, supple-
mented pro rata for each
additional completed month
of service. This payment
will not be in the nature of
Deferred Pay computed on a
daily basis.
For full details apply:
The Naval Recruiting Officer
in your Capital City.
8AN.34.ei.e0
Sir Joseph Wilson Swan
laid the foundations
of two great modern industries. He was one of the inventors
of the carbon filament lamp, forerunner of the modern electric
light bulb. He was also the first to produce a practical
artificial silk. This he made by dissolving nitro-cellulose
in acetic acid and squirting it through a small orifice into a
coagulating fluid, thus forming a long continuous thread.
Some of these threads were crocheted into lace which was
shown at the Inventions Exhibition of 1885 as “Artificial Silk.”
Swan was too preoccupied with his lamp—which was patented
in 1880—and did not exploit his new fibre. It was developed
by others and gave rise to the modern rayon industry.
Born in Sunderland in 1828, Swan worked as assistant to a
firm of manufacturing chemists in that town, later becoming
a partner in another firm at Newcastle-on-Tyne. His numerous
inventions and discoveries earned him the Fellowship of the
Royal Society in 1894, and a knighthood eight years later.
Ancestors
of an
industry
The millions of electric light bulbs in *use
all over the world are a greater tribute to
the genius of this British scientist than the
honours he received during his lifetime.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
■IL-74-14-
sd
K*.
cars. ,-»•»«
Velox gives you . >p . b . Indepeo
m .p.b. Top speed ° ion . 6-ph**
~L front-wbeel snap s report
de carbuiation. uw £620 .
“economy car be (Tourer)
up to 28 £695 . Cloth to®.
Saloon Cl®?-
offers you grand
performance
at lowest cost. .
All Prices Plus
Sales Tax
fsd
WYVERN 4cyl. Ilh.p.
fs
The I2h.p. which
costs less than
most 8-10 h.p. cars.
The 12 h.p. O.H.V. Vauxhall Wyvern
gives you :—Cruising speed of 50 m.p.h.
Top speed of 60-65 m.p.h. Independent
front-wheel suspension. 6-phase “econ-
omy” carburation. Owners report up to
35 m.p.g. Caleche (Tourer) £570. Saloon
(Imp. Panels) £645. Cloth trim . Saloon
(Imp. Panels) £655. Leather trim.
Enquire about the
designed-for- Vaux-
hall “Air Chief ”
radio and the
G.M.A.C. Confident
tial Payment Plan.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S LIMITED
Brisbane • Sydney • Melbourne • Adelaide • Perth
or buy from your local authorised dealer
Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealert throughout Australia
VI2/24
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
It seems to be generally recog-
nised that the gradual trend to-
wards easier living conditions,
which was so marked and pleas-
ing a feature of the first half of
this year, has now reached its
peak. Prompted no doubt by a
desire to make the most of the
international situation and also
by the removal of petrol-ration-
ing, the rush to spend holidays
away from home has been much
greater than in any of the post-
war years; and so also, accord-
ing to reports, has been the re-
luctance to spend money on
anything but essentials. A
summer of persistently bad
weather and sultry restlessness
has deprived most holiday-
makers of full satisfaction and
left them grudgingly reluctant
to settle down to the encroach-
ing autumn.
Not even the hardiest of opti-
mists can admit that the pros-
pect is a cheerful one. Setting
aside the rumblings from distant
Korea and the simmering un-
certainties from the not-so-
distant countries beyond the
Baltic and the Rhine, there is
plenty of cause for apprehension
at home. The “need to exercise
restraint in the pressing of wage-
claims” can now amount to no
more than its own verbosity,
since a flood of claims amount-
ing to nearly £200,000,000 a year
is expected to burst soon. Taxa-
tion and the cost of living are
opposing forces that must surely
become the more divergent.
There have also been several
warnings of another, less com-
plex, threat to British families.
We shall be very lucky if we
escape a serious fuel shortage in
the coming months. No less an
authority than the Parliamentary
Secretary to the Ministry of
Fuel and Power has said, early
this month, that eight weeks were
left to avert a crisis ; and eight
weeks is all too plainly not long
enough.
Since the disastrous freeze-up
of 1947 Britain has been favored
with three mild winters in suc-
cession. During those years the
sale of electrical appliances has
greatly exceeded the husbandry
of the nationalised power under-
takings. Remembering with
some pain what happened in
1947, it may truly be said that
hopes lie stronger in another
providential denial of the law
of averages than in the efficacy
of Ministerial exhortations.
Service-pay Increases
Comment on the increases in
service pay is somewhat startled
but broadly unanimous in the
generosity, particularly towards
technicians and “other ranks.”
It is felt that such substantial
increases as these are long over-
due, and that in the past Gov-
ernments have been niggardly in
the treatment of fighting men.
At last, it is said, the armed
forces now offer a career that
can compete with the equivalent
in industry.
One good result —the best,
perhaps—is the effect upon the
men already serving. They are
less likely to feel envious of
those “outside” who are enjoy-
ing both their liberty and a
choice of job in a state of full
employment.
As yet it is" early to judge the
effect of the announcement on
recruitment, but from the enor-
mous sums of money which are
being spent on advertising in the
Press it is clear that the Gov-
ernment is taking no chances.
. Some reservation, nevertheless,
is called for.
Full employment has not
proved to be a self-sufficient
solution. Many vital occupa-
tions in civilian life are badly
under-staffed. We are short of
police. With over-full employ-
ment, the security offered does
not appeal to men who don’t
choose to be subject to disci-
pline and irregular hours. And
the labor force for coal-workers,
notwithstanding the high wages
and other inducements, is de-
creasing. It may well prove
that pay alone will not draw
recruits to the forces.
Suggestions have been made
that patriotism, combined with
a sense of urgency, is as vital
as pay, and also that a change
in outlook on the part of the
brasshats would be welcome.
There may be something in this,
particularly where the Army is
concerned. The Navy has never
been short of recruits (although
there is said to be a good deal
of “wastage” caused by ratings
not re-signing after completion of
their 12 years). And the R.A.F.
has promised a less-rigid disci-
pline for skilled technicians.
Talking to young conscripts
also suggests that more might
be done to make them feel that
they are needed and useful,
especially when they have
finished their preliminary train-
ing. Too often they seem to
be allowed to drift into an atti-
tude of listless resignation,
merely waiting for the day when
they can be discharged.
The cost is going to be a
heavy one, and comment in
general leaves it at that, saying
that defence needs must come
before all others. The im-
portant question as to who will
pay is carefully hedged. The
taxpayer is already overbur-
dened. Perhaps someone else
will come forward in time?
That at least is the implication.
Pent-up Politics
The microphone is notoriously
responsive to the moods of its
users and as ruthless a betrayer
as the camera. In his party-
political broadcast Mr. Churchill
sounded unmistakably regretful,
suggesting that he was ill-at-ease
not only about the world situa-
tion but also about, his own
position in it; and there was no
doubt about his concern at the
way “our people” are divided
over party differences. Can it be
that he has come to realise the
error of his recent tactics?
Mr, Attlee’s reply a week later
suggested a thankful release of
pent-up temper and vindictive
hate. He sounded as if the
main object of his broadcast was
to direct his barbs so as to cause
the maximum of damage to Mr.
Churchill’s prestige before a
nation-wide audience. It can-
not be denied that he has had
some success ; but, as with the
wasp, his furious sting has
robbed him of much of his own
strength. Except among his
party-followers, who were quick
to applaud his action, he has
fallen in esteem.
The time has surely come for
some direct speaking, not be-
tween party leaders but rather
on the impact of their per-
sonalities and conduct upon the
nation. Veneration for Mr.
Churchill as the saviour of the
British peoples is undying. It
is more questionable whether his
buoyant unorthodoxy as leader
of the Conservative party has
enhanced his reputation as elder
statesman of world consequence,
whom we sadly need for his
sagacity in counsel.
Sales-talk
The large store in Kensing-
ton which displayed, within
three days of the announcement,
this placard: “Australian Wool
Sales. Prices Up 50 p.c. Buy
Your Clothes now!” can hardly
be said to have lost time in
turning foreboding tidings to its
advantage.
But is there some deeply sig-
nificant reason behind the with-
drawal of the cards only a day
or two later?


Women’s letters
From Melbourne
R.A.A.F, Headquarters Mess, St.
Kilda-road, was the setting for an
informal late-afternoon party, with Sir
Keith Park and U.S. General G. C.
Kenney as guests-of-honor. A sudden
call to Canberra whisked away the host,
Air-Marshal George Jones, so Air-Vice-
Marshal Frank Bladin assisted Mrs.
Jones to receive guests. Mrs. Jones wore
a gaily-printed white silk frock and a
bonnet-shaped hat of natural straw
trimmed with wheat-ears. Mrs. Bladin’s
black silk suit was topped with a pastel-
pink off-the-face felt hat finished with
black drenched ostrich feathers. With
Admiral J. A. Collins was his wife, her
choice a dove-grey angora frock and
matching grosgrain cloche. Mrs. D.
Candy’s black crepe jacket-suit had gold
accessories ; her black hat flew pink coq-
feathers. Mrs. W. N. Gibson’s black
faille cocktail-suit was matched by a
black head-hugging cap. Mrs. Max
Watson contrasted her black suit with a
ruby velvet cloche. Mrs. Charles
Provan’s frock was of banana angora.
Mrs. F. R. Schergei highlighted her
black ensemble with a deep collar of
crisp white organdie, htrs. Frank Lukis’s
suit was dove-grey, self-embroidered.
Mrs. Lloyd Davies added to\ her black
frock a lime-green straw hat. Mrs. S. F.
Rowell, wife of the Chief of the General
Staff, wore a short black sequin jacket
over a black crepe dinner-gown. With
the newly-appointed Consul-General for
China, Martin Wang, was his wife, whose
lovely national costume was of pale-blue
satin embroidered in a deeper blue floral
design, Mrs. S. J. Fletcher, wife of the
U.S. Consul-General, wore a lovely
dinner-gown of American-beauty crepe,
which had gold embroideries on the
shoulders of the short-sleeved bodice.
Wife of the U.S. Naval Attache, Mrs.
Adrian Perry, was in beige crepe and a
matching hat swathed with ostrich
feathers. Mrs. Frank Gillespie’s silk
frock was printed in a modern design of
green, black and white. Mrs. H. W.
Mermagen’s silks were in black-and-white
checks. Mrs. F. R. Ramey’s black frock
was patterned in turquoise-blue. Dove-
grey under a black coat comprised Mrs.
E. C. Wackett’s ensemble.
The president, H. M. Gibbons, and
members of the Chamber of Commerce
gave a party at Menzies’, their guests-
of-honor being the High Commissioner
for Australia in India, H. R. Gollan,
the Australian Trade Commissioner in
India, S. D. Shubart, and their wives.
Mrs. Gibbons wore a London-tan jacket-
suit and a white feather-trimmed hat.
Mrs. Gollan’s black tailored suit was
worn with a white blouse. Over a frock
of black-and-silver-striped faille Mrs.
Shubart wore a black faille coat. Among
the guests were Mrs. John Hasam, whose
black faille frock was worn with a tiny
orchid-pink straw hat; Mrs. E. T.
Reed, her suit of hyacinth-blue ; Shirley
Kirk in black tailored coat and high-
ringed black felt hat; and Gwen Reed,
Stflio wore a powder-blue alpaca coat and
small black felt boater.
The marriage of Eileen Teresa,
youngest daughter of Sir John and Lady
Jensen, of Hawthorn, to Robert Charles,
only son of Mr. and Mrs. N. L. Part-
ington, of Camberwell, was celebrated
with Nuptial Mass at the Church of the
Immaculate Conception, Hawthorn, Rev.
Father W. F. O’Collins officiating. The
bride’s gown of white slipper satin was
cut on classical lines with the long-sleeved
bodice finished with a tiny peaked collar ;
her flowing tulle veil was caught with
orange-blossom. Pinned in her gown was
the “something blue” —a sapphire brooch,
the gift of the bridegroom. Her bouquet
was of azaleas and hyacinths. Full-skirted
gowns of white-figured organdie over
taffeta were worn by the three brides-
maids: Margaret Ruse arid the bride’s
schoolgirl nieces, Margaret-Anne and
Elizabeth Murray. Coronets of hyacinths
and azaleas were worn in their hair and
posies in the same tint were carried. Best
man was Edward Carey. Reception was
at the Grosvenor, Toorak.
If there are many more hat shows
organised as “money-spinners” fqr
charity the women of this city will
become hat-happy. The latest was that
at the Opportunity Clubs’ “do” at the
Delphic. Creations were those of Lille
Couturier, Ronnie Goodlet, Val Levatt,
Sheila Scottar, Margaret Hammond and
June Moran were the mannequins, and
Lois Findlay and Pat Cashman the
organisers. Lille Couturier wore one of
her own hats, a black-and-gold-striped
taffeta finished with black ospreys and a
black cloque taffeta jacket-suit. Lucky
programmes were sold by Mrs. Lou
Dallimore, Prudence Jenkins, Carol
Graves and Margaret Cook.
Here is Lille Couturier, who created
the many lovely hats shown at the
Delphic to raise money for the Oppor-
tunity Clubs. For some year she has
been a member of the Opportunity
Benefits committee, which is a group of
women formed specially to organise
functions for the clubs. Although her
salon and her home (in private life she
is Mrs. Henry Armatruda) keep her very
busy, Lille also finds time to work for
the Limbless Soldiers’ Association. Max
Shepherd (Sydney) photo.
Grim reminder of London’s blitz was
the theme of the stage backdrop in the
St. Kilda Town Hall, where the Battle of
Britain Ball was held. It showed the
dome of St. Paul’s surrounded with lurid
flames and a sky filled with aircraft. But
gentler decorations were used elsewhere.
The foyer was banked with blossom and
spring flowers, and multicolored balloons
hung from the ceiling. The ball was
organised by the Air Force Women’s
Association, and proceeds go to the
Scholarship Fund, launched in 1947 to
help children who, through the loss or
incapacitation of their fathers in the
R.A.A.F., have been unable to complete
their education. Lady Brooks, who
accompanied the Governor, wore dove-
grey organza patterned with delicately-
shaded flowers in orchid tones. The
bertha collar on the bodice was caught
with roses in matching tones. In the
official party were Air-Marshal George
Jones and his wife, whose full-skirted
gown was of white satin polka-dotted in
red and green, Air-Vice-Marshal E. C.
Wackett and Mrs. Wackett, in filmy black
tulle, Lieut.-General S. F. Rowell
and Mrs. Rowell, her gown of pervenche-
blue having embroideries of silver out-
lining the deep neckline, and Vice-
Admiral John Collins and Mrs. Collins,
whose cream gown was patterned in a
Chinese motif of deeper cream flowers.
Mrs. Val Hancock’s slimly-cut gown
was of black velvet; Mrs. Douglas
Beatty was in orchid-pink faille ; Mrs.
Frank Bladin’s gown of petunia-pink tulle
had the full skirt embroidered in scrolls,
of silver; Mrs. Charles Probert’s black
duchesse-satin was pin-spotted in green ;
Mrs. W. Taylor wore a blue brocade
gown patterned in pink and silver and
made with a halter neckline; Lady
Robinson’s choice was black lace ; Mrs.
Melville Langslow’s turquoise brocade
gown was silver-embroidered; dove-grey
faille fashioned the gown and hip-length
jacket worn by Mrs. Chadwick.
William Beale designed the hats and
Peter Charles the frocks worn in a
parade at the Oriental Hotel in aid of
the Royal Melbourne Hospital Almoner
Auxiliary, of which Mrs. W- K. Bum-
side is president. Lady Beaurepaire,
smart in an olive-green cloque-taffeta
jacket - suit and large black osprey-
trimmed hat, opened the parade, and was
introduced by Mrs, Burnside, whose
donkey-brown duvetyn coat was worn
with a William Beale model hat of cream-
and-gold-striped taffeta. Mrs. Roy
Chambers, in black ensemble and match-
ing hat, represented the hospital, and was
accompanied by Vivienne Betty Stephens,
secretary of auxiliaries to the Royal Mel-
bourne. Mrs. S. Clack, senior vice-
president of the Almoner Auxiliary,
topped her black frock with a pastel-blue-
satin-trimmed black hat. Mrs. S. Brun-
ning contrasted her dark-brown suit
with a lichen-green cloche hat.
From Sydney
The clamor of big social events often
drowns the music • permeating Sydney
life. It takes a quieter week such as this
for its voice to be heard more clearly.
There is a ton of talent in Sydney.
various receptions, rfiuaicales and “at-
homes” during the week, some delightful
artists were heard, including Lena Belle,
Trevor Lewis, George Farrell, Rachel
Neale, Elbe McLean, Beryl Wilkinson,
Doreen Douglas, Gwen Ashton, Vera
Lewis, Wanda Carter and Joy Cross.
Many of these young musicians and
singers may not get the opportunity of
appearing on the concert-platform, but
their performances give delight to their
listeners as well as evidence of the re-
viving interest in music in the home and
in our everyday life.
Miss Florence Taylor welcomed the
guests at the afternoon reception (with
music) given by the Australian-American
Association to Mrs. Donald Smith, wife
of the new Consul-General for America.
To greet Mrs. Smith, who is slim, blond
and youthful, were many women whose
husbands are members of the consular
and diplomatic corps: Mrs. Vrisakis
(Greece), Mrs. Roberto Regala (Philip-
pines), Mme. J. Strauss (France), Mrs.
Hungerford (U.S.A.). The party was
held in the drawing-room of the Royal
Empire Society, where the restful
atmosphere combined with the musical
programme to put everyone into a
friendly and pleasant mood. Mrs. Ted
Scorfield, who is secretary of the associa-
tion, applied her usual efficiency to
organising the reception. Mrs, Fergus
George thanked the artists for their
music. Mrs. Frank Buxton was nicely
dressed in tailored-type navy-blue. Mrs.
Paul Nelson wore one of the new season’s
straw-boaters with a black-mesh veil.
Present also were Dr. Phyllis Burton,
Mrs. R. Simmatt, Mrs. Ferrari Passmore,
Mrs. Allan Williams and Mrs. William
Christie.
Music was also a feature of the
afternoon-party arranged by the English-
Speaking Union when Mrs. Callaghan,
wife of Brigadier J. Callaghan, was the
guest-of-honor. Mrs. Callaghan gave a
short talk on her experiences in Germany,
where she has lived for the past two
years. Her greatest delight there was the
opera, which is on every night of the
week, and performed in English once a
week. Mrs. Persia Porter, who presided,
paid a tribute to Mrs. Harry Twigden,
the musical director of the union, who
has been for many years a guilding spirit
in the musical circles of Sydney.
Joy Cross, who is as pretty as her pic-
ture, is one of the most promising of our
younger pianists. Just 20 now, she was
only 19 when she obtained her
performer’s diploma from the Conserva-
torium and was a finalist in the A.B.C.’s
concerto and vocal contest. Joy received
her early musical training at the Brigidine
Convent, Randwick, where she won a
State scholarship to the Conservatorium.
She is still studying with Laurence
Godfrey-Smith and hopes to go to Paris
for further experience and training in the
next couple of years. At the musicale
arranged by the English-Speaking Union
this week, she played Chopin, Schumann
and Liszt with strength, delicacy and
charm. Photo by Clarice Boyce.
During the week the glossier fashion
magazines arrived from America giving
some white-hot. news on the fashion
front. The most interesting point is the
vogue for wearing little bells as orna-
ments, on the belt, on the handbag, the
bracelet, the fob or as earrings. It is
many hundreds of .years since, bells were,
a major fashion, the bright boys of the
middle-ages being the last to festoon
themselves with the tinkling decorations.
They wore them; all round 'their belts,
over their shoulders, on their caps and
shoes, until they-made such a din as
they walked that the racket was declared
a public nuisance and the fashion killed
itself, only surviving in the jester’s cap-
and-bells. It’s a pretty idea to start with
and will undoubtedly take on in Aus-
tralia next year. Where it will end is
another matter. Slacks are no longer
slack, but have become stove-pipe
trousers, very narrow at the ankle and
often in harlequin designs. This narrow-
ing down of the slack has been going on
quietly for some time, and is bound to
establish itself as the right cut for
trousers. Colors are all in the warm
group, the slogan being “red and yeller
to catch a feller.”
Nurse Gwen Smith won the only gold
medal presented this week by the Royal
Humane Society. Nurse Smith, who is
19, risked her life when she ran to the
assistance of the matron who was being
attacked by a man with a knife, although
she was quite unarmed herself. The
award can be taken as a tribute to the
fearlessness of all the nurses who day
by day encounter and cope with situa-
tions that would daunt the average
woman. Their unhesitating courage
always commands the admiration of
those who witness it. It is fitting that
one of their members should be so highly
honored.
When the Musical Association of
N.S.W, gave a tea-party in honor of
Arthur Benjamin, pianist and composer,
there were more than 120 people present,
including many distinguished musicians.
Sir Angus Gillan, head of the National
Council, was there; so l were Cyril Monk,
the Alfred Hills, Faunce Allman and Mr.
and Mrs. Hamilton Moore. Priscilla
Kennedy came up specially from Fren-
sham to meet the guest-of-honor, who,
with his sturdy build, humorous smile
and twinkling eye, is very unlike the
cartoonist’s idea of the long-haired
musician. His speech was most stimulat-
ing, Australians, he said, could be more
accurately called “music-loving” than
“musical,” for although there was much
activity in music here very little was done
to encourage creativeness in music. To be
really musical, a nation must produce
composers. This was very difficult if
young pianists and violinists rarely got
an opportunity of hearing their com-
positions played. Mr. Benjamin outlined
the work of the British Committee for the
Encouragement of New Music. Under
the presidency of Vaughan Williams,
about 30 of England’s leading musicians
each read an average of nine manu-
scripts from new composers per month.
If any of these were thought worthy of
performance this was arranged at the
concerts held each month. Twice a year
orchestral concerts were held, under the
baton of distinguished conductors. As
this society has encouraged and brought
to notice several promising composers in
England, the same sort of thing would be
very valuable in Australia.
Always one of Sydney’s loveliest events,
the Red Cross Flower Festival starts in
the Domain today, remaining as a three-
day wonder till September 23.
Although flowers have gained in size and
strength and variety in the past 50 years,
they have lost something in quaint appeal.
Today the red rose may b*e used to mean
“I love you truly,” but no one sends a
white one to ask “Why are you so silent?”
In the old-fashioned language of flowers,
sweet-peas were a delicate way of saying
“I’m tired of you,” and a spray of lilac
softened the blow of “Our engagement is
over.” Flowers were thought to have
special ppwers in olden times, the bean-
flower having an evil influence, as “more
people went mad at its flowering than at
any other time of the year.” The
“melancholy-thistle” was considered “the
best remedy that grows against melan-
choly diseases,” although one must
(significantly) take it in wine, “which
cheers the heart of man.” Flowers, too,
had many pet-names in the past. The
carnation was called the July-flower or
the gilliflower. The pansy had many
names: “trinity-flower,” “three-faces-ip-
a-hood,” “kiss-me-quick” and “kiss-me-
by-the-garden-gate.” Apart from orange-
blossom and arum-lilies, flowers have
very little symbolism today. This seems
a loss, except to those people who think,
with Dr. Johnson, “that of all the flowers
in the garden there is none to compare
with the cauliflower.”
The music of the Manx and Breton
peoples will be featured when the Celtic
Society holds its concert at the Macquarie
Auditorium on Saturday, October 14, at
8 p.m. The Celtic Society, whose presi-
dent is Clement Hosking, is devoted to the
encouragement of Celtic folk-lore, music
and literature. Although much attention
has been paid in the past to the Scottish,
Irish, Welsh and Cornish culture, little
has been heard of the Manx and Breton
contribution.- This concert should there-
fore be a rare and interesting experience.


m
HOME-LIGHTING BATTERIES TO FULFIL EVERY
LIGHTING NEED —BACKED BY 60 YEARS' EXPERIENCE.
df
XHLIA.2S
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Landed in Brisbane last week, the Rev.
W. J. Hudson —slightly dazed. He’s ex-
changed his two-square-mile parish of
Letchworth Garden City, Hertfordshire
(Eng.), for the" half-a-million-odd square
miles of the Carpentaria diocese, stretch-
ing from Torres Strait round to the
Roper and down to Alice Springs—
holding in all some 10,000 whites,
about the same population as his former
paddock. An eager-eyed, genial chap,
six-feet-odd, he’s 46, which should give
him sufficient years to cover at least part
of his new charge. He’ll be consecrated
Bishop in Brisbane before leaving for his
headquarters on Thursday Island.
Old Diggers will be pleased to know
that “Birdie” (alias Field-Marshal Lord
William Riddell Birdwood), their G.0.C.,
last week reached 85 in London, at his
Hampton Court Palace apartments. First
in service in 1883, and in most of the
Empire’s armies at some time or other
since, from the Bengal Lancers, Gurkha
Rifles and Kitchener’s staff in S. Africa
to the Ist N.Z. Mounted Rifles and leader
of the Anzacs who landed above Gaba
Tepe, the grand old soldier is loaded thick
with military honors from his own
country, and from France, Belgium,
Portugal, Japan, Persia and America, He
has 25 years’ seniority as Field-Marshal,
which makes him the senior baton-holder
in the British Army.
L. E. Richdale, hon, lecturer on zoology
at Maoriland’s Otago University, who
already holds an honorary fellowship of
Cornell University, U.S.A., has been
awarded a Fulbright Scholarship there to
further his studies in ornithology. An
authority on seabird life, particularly
albatrosses and penguins, Richdale recently
isolated himself on a small uninhabited
island off the coast of Stewart Island lor
three months to study petrels. Of his
work on the yellow-eyed penguin a recent
visitor from the States, Dr. R. C.
Murphy, head of the bird section of the
New York Natural History Museum,
said: “Everything published later would
have to take both datum and baseline
from it.”
“Trinco”: The top trajectories of
General George Catlett Marshall’s career
—U.S. Ghief-of-Staff in the late war,
mission to attempt restoration of national
unity in China, Secretaryship of State,
authorship of the Marshall Plan, and
present return from retirement to the
currently pre-eminent job of Defence
Secretary—are familiar enough On
the lesser-known side: at Virginia
Military Institute the cadet’s bayonet-
drill was so bad that another cadet
accidentally ran a bayonet through
him —even that lesson failed to keep
Marshall out of the awkward squad, and
he ended 35th in his class ; he got his
first taste of battle in 1917 as a captain
with a Moroccan division in France, and
found his natural bent in a genius for
organisation—towards the end of War I,
full colonel, transferring from St. Mihiel
to the Argonne 500,000 men and 2700
guns so deftly that the enemy was com-
pletely surprised. Once during manoeuvres
near Fort Sill (U.S.), in 1941, a battery-
commander was prevented from siting
his gun near a farmer’s tree because
Army rules prevented destruction of
private property. Miles of red-tape re-
sulted in a delay of hours before that
single gun could be placed. Later, a
correspondent reproached General
Marshall with the apparent idiocy of
such pettifogging ; to be told politely that
the U.S. stood for the inviolate security
of certain rights, that the Army would
never countenance their destruction, and
that a little delay in manoeuvres was a
small price to pay for the survival of a
great principle. Very apt for his present
job. A jittery world will welcome the
announcement of it with an echo of a
forgotten subordinate who once called
Marshall: “The best darned man I’ve
got!”
Picked to command Maoriland’s
Korean force. Brigadier R. S. Park is
already well-up in liaison with British
forces; —in Hitler’s war being M.L.’s
senior military liaison officer in the
U.K. As well, he commanded the U.K.
section of War II Kiwis, and was the
Dominion’s representative on the Joint
Planning Staff. Back in M.L. in 1947,
he commanded the Northern Military
District. A C.B.E. came his way in
1943 ; and A.D.C. to the King followed
in 1948. Dunedin-born, he’s 55.
Arrived in Melbourne the other day,
Monsieur Rieu, precursor of the age of
prefabricated houses. He is chief en-
gineer of Sainrapt and Brice, of Paris, a
noted firm of European builders
who 75 years ago pioneered reinforced
concrete and built, among other things,
some of Paris’s famous hotels, the
Puegeot car works' and the great em-
porium Printemps. Rieu is bringing 420
members of the firm’s staff with him to
assist in putting up imported prefabs for
the Victorian Housing Commission, and
later proposes to build hotels and cafes
—badly needed with the Olympic Games
in the offing. Judging by the firm’s
earlier achievements, the Melbourne
erections should be ultra-modern and
give a new, not to say sly, slant to Mel-
bourne’s architecture.
“Fitz”: It is more than 56 years since The
Bulletin printed poet Will H. Ogilvie’s first
contribution —on April 21, 1894, when a 36-line
poem, “Beyond the Barrier,” signed “Glen-
rowan,” and written in Broken Hill, appeared
in “Society.” Nearly 25 then, Ogilvie had been
in Australia since 1889, and was to remain six
years. During his sojourn in these parts he was
on Belalie station on the- Warrego and Maroupe
station (Penola, S.A.). Drover, horsebreaker
and station-hand, he learned to love the bush
and bushraen, and still recalls with pleasure the
years he spent outback. “Beyond the Barrier”
was followed by many other verses, scribbled
upon the backs of old envelopes or letters at
odd moments. The whole of “Fair Girls and
Gray Horses” was written under a gumtree on
the stock-route between Forbes and Bogan Gate
in the intervals of getting up to fling sticks and
stones at refractory ewes which would not camp.
“His Gippsland Girl” took shape one summer
day on the lignum plains below Goodooga;
“Deserted” was written at a grass-grown Queens-
land homestead; “How the Chestnut Came
Home” at a station near Mt. Gambier. Wrote
Ogilvie in after years: “There was music in
everything in those days; sad music or sweet,
but always music. And the roaring whips and
the beating hoofs and the jingling chains all
WILL OGILVIE.
wrote themselves down in one rhyme or
another.” In 1898 The Bulletin published
the pick of his earliest verse in book form
under the title of Fair Girls and Gray Horses,
and in 1901 put out a second book. Hearts of
Gold, both of which enjoyed a wide popularity
and now command good prices in second-hand
bookshops. At the dawn of this century Ogilvie
left Australia, became Professor of Agricultural
Journalism in the lowa State College, U.S.A.,
then returned to his native Scotland. He has
18 books to his credit, mostly verse, and has
been writing for The Bulletin ever since he
left this corner of the globe. A verse by him
appears in this week’s issue, and 4 his hand-
writing is as firm and clear as it was half-a-
century ago. His more recent Bulletin poems
will be put between book-covers shortly by
“Hoofs and Horns,” an Adelaide monthly,
together with some pieces which have appeared
in that journal.
In recent years, thanks to a
policy by the A.8.C., Australian com-'
posers have been given increasingly
greater chances to have their works
heard. Now the return to his native
shores of composer - pianist Arthur
Benjamin after years of success abroad
gives just the fillip needed for local music-
creators. Benjamin, who made his first
appearance at the keyboard in Brisbane
as a six-year-old, has been composing
since he was nine, and when he left for
England at 17 he was virtually a full-
blown musician. He composes with equal
facility in both light and weighty forms —
ARTHUR BENJAMIN.
a rare gift. His best-known popular
piece, “Jamaican Rhumba,” was an im-
mediate, wo rid-wide success; a recording
of it by Jascha Heifetz clocked up
250,000 sales in its first season, and it is
practically never off the ether somewhere
or other. Sir John Barbirolli, due to
commence his Australian tour in a couple
of months, gave the world premiere of
Benjamin’s First Symphony three years
ago. Sixteen years before that Sir
Thomas Beecham first conducted his
opera “The Devil Take Her.” Back-
ground music for the films “The Ideal
Husband,” “The Scarlet Pimpernel” and
“Wings of the Morning” was also Ben-
jamin’s work. Geniality personified, he
tempers crotchets and quavers with a
keen sense of humor.
The R.A.A.F.’s 77 Mustang Squadron
has given Australians a proud and per-
sonal interest in the Korean business —
and Wing-Commander Louis Spence, of
Brisbane, the squadron’s C. 0., saw to it
that his valiant band gave Australia and
the world almost daily news of
gamely-pressed strafing, rocket and
close-support attacks. Killed while
boring-in at attacking Communist forces,
Spence was a genial six-footer who was
with the ’Wales in several Queensland
branches, laying out his pocket-money on
flying lessons. A natural for the R.A.A.F.
when war broke out, he got into it early
in the Middle East, and was the pilot
who made news when he landed beside
a shot-down Kittyhawk, plonked the
pilot in his seat, double-banked on his
knees and took off to safety. Spence
won the D.F.C. and a “mention” before
returning to Australia. After Darwin’s
first raid Jap bombers and fighters had
it pretty well all their own way, with
Hudson bombers their only worry. Until,
as the Jap formations split up to unload
over town # and aerodrome one nice
sunny morning, a wailing banshee flight
of Middle East Spits fell headlong upon
them. Spence was in one, flanked by
“Killer” Caldwell and “Bluey” Truscott.
Until he left for Japan with his squadron
Spence was instructing at Point Cook,
and while there designed the insignia and
motto for the station’s cadet-school—
something the youngsters will long re-
member. A fine Australian, 33 at the
end.
Taking over the squadron and its
splendid record. Squadron-leader R.
Cresswell, a battle-wise 30-year-old who
shouldn’t take long to shrug down into
his new job—he formed the unit in Perth
in 1942, took it to Darwin and later led
it through the New Guinea fighting. As
well, he commanded that veteran flight
of Jap-hoppers in Darwin, No. 1 Spit-
fire Squadron. In the R.A.A.F. since
1938, the new man was schooled at
Randwick High (Sydney) and goes north
from command of No. 21 (City of Mel-
bourne) Squadron. Australia’s well-
wishes go with him.
“Cauboy”: Offered the job of per-
manent conductor of Victoria’s Sym-
phony Orchestra, Alceo Galliera could
well make a personal imprint on Mel-
bourne’s music. A large, vigorous man
of 40, who could pass for an Italian
operatic singer, he gave a singing quality
to the music he drew from the orches-
trions in his recent season, and most of
his audience liked it. A versatile chap, he
is an accomplished organist and com-
poser, like his father, whom he suc-
ceeded as Professor of Organ and Com-
position at the Verdi Conservatorium in
Milan, where he was trained. As com-
poser he has had a ballet, “The Wise
Virgins,” performed at La Scala and has
written chamber and symphonic music;
as baton-wielder he made his debut in
Rome at 30, has since been guest-con-
ductor with the leading orchestras of
Paris, Vienna, Helsinki and London, and
won the Paris Grand Prix in 1949 for
the best recording of the year, the “Em-
peror” Concerto played by the London
Philharmonic, with Schnabel at the
piano. Galliera escaped from Mussolini
in the late war by crossing the Alps on
foot with his wife and child, returning
to make a remarkable flight to the musi-
cal upper-reaches in a few years. He is
making another to consult with his wife
in Italy as to the Melbourne arrange-
ment, which would leave him free to con-
duct in Australia from May to December
and in Europe during the Continent’s
musical season.
New president of S. Australia’s
Liberal Country League, Old Digger
Dudley Turner was schooled at Sydney
Grammar, started with Eastern Extension
at La Perouse (Sydney) and was sent by
that co. to S. Australia in 1905. He re-
signed in 1911, but stayed in Adelaide to
become a widely-known public figure.
Among his oiit-of-office jobs he lists
treasurer of the Children’s Hospital, chair-
man of the C, of E. Boys’ Home and head
of the Australian Red Cross for two
years from 1942. In 1940 he shifted to
Melbourne as commissioner to Army
H.Q.; one of his best efforts there being
the shipment of food and medical sup-
plies he managed to include in the first
diplomatic ship allowed to Japan in the
iate war —Australia’s share, £103,000.
Now 64, he’s been many years with the
L.C.L., mainly as financial adviser. In
War I he was a radio-operator with the
Royal Navy.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 96, George Dowling, one-
time wool-manager of Goldsbrough Mort in
Adelaide. He landed in Adelaide from England
in 1883.
At Mackay (Q.), Henry George Brandon,
sugar expert, and for years chief-engineer of
Plane Creek mill at Sarina. The industry sent
him through America and the West Indies some
years ago, a tour reflected in the present
efficiency of the Plane Creek plant.
In Toowoomba (Q.), at 61, Edwin Chisholm
Bernays, one of the State’s most experienced
legal men and member of a widely-known old
Queensland family. Solicitor in Toowoomba
for 40 years, trustee of the Downs’ fine
Grammar School and a keen spare-time
ornithologist.
At 78, in Geelong (Vic.), George R. King,
former director of the Gordon Institute of
Technology and one of Victoria’s outstanding
educationists. Although not a practising
architect he stood high in the architectural
profession, and wielded an influence on most
civic and technical developments in Geelong.
In Dunedin (MX.), at 90, William Blaxland
Benham, Professor of Biology at Otago Univer-
sity, and curator of the Otago Museum for
40 years till 1937. Acting for the Australian
Museum and the British Museum, he examined
the worms collected by the Scott and Mawson
Antarctic expeditions, and also reported on the
marine worms collected by the Australian
fisheries ship Endeavour. His researches ranged
over the whole animal kingdom, from worms
to chimpanzees. He was knighted in 1939.
In Perth, at 73, Arthur H. Christian, gold
assayer, and one-time Victorian Sheffield Shield
cricketer, generally regarded as the best all-
rounder to have played for Westralia. Before
coming to the West from Melbourne in 1907
he had played against Vic Trumper, and he
represented for the West against S. Australia in
1909 and Victoria in 1910. More recently he
had been coach for all Westralian public schools,
his enthusiasm the inspiratidn of generations
of young players. His only son, Arthur Hugh
Christian, was Westralian Rhodes Scholar in
1929.


a study in anger
by Ethel Anderson
DONALBAIN McCree, five yester-
day, was not even yet used to
waking up and finding the earth,
that miracle, precisely where he
had left it the preceding night, when,
most reluctantly, he had closed his eyes.
For this reason he had pulled his cot
alongside the window, the better to lean
his chin on the sill and survey his in-
heritance.
He liked to make certain nothing was
missing.
The sun? Ah, there it was, with a sun-
rise in full swing.
It was an elaborate effort which en-
tailed much flinging-about of amber and
gold, a particularly happy effect having
been achieved by piling cumulus shapes
right to the zenith of the sky, then top-
ping these with three cirrus clouds of a
bright coral-pink, which floated like
gondolas in a sea colored a pale pistachio-
nut green.
Even Donalbain recognised this as a
successful experiment. He turned his
chin up the easier to observe it, and the
sun, caprice itself, hereupon sent out a
ray that dropped down through steep
stairways of cloud to touch the eager face
as if to caress it, as if to say (misquoting
Baudelaire) “This child pleases me”;
while the warm sunshine vibrated like
far-off chiming bells to articulate in danc-
ing motes the promise of the sun:
“Child, you shall live under the influence
of my kiss. You shall be beautiful in my
way. You shall love all that I love, the
earth, the trees, the sands, all sights, all
sounds, all life, rivers, hills, valleys. You
shall love through my influence places
you have never visited, the memory of
scents you have never known shall stir
your heart to ecstasy, and my light shall
bleach your blonde hair and bronze your
white neck, and dye your blue eyes to an
eternal blue that will never fade.”
Yes, on that radiant spring morning the
sun (in his own tongue) said something
like this —something of this he said—as
Donalbqin leaned far out of the window
to make sure that the whole of the
empyrean was there. Yes, it was. But
were such scudding clouds really
necessary? Oh, surely not another wet
day?
Was the swallow’s nest still under the
eaves?
Yes, it was.
There was the butcher-bird impaling
a lizard on a thorn.
There were the ringdoves who always
had the air of falling off a branch before
settling on it, pegged, a row of eight on
the orchard wall, an erection of grey
stones innocent of cement.
Donalbain heard little “guinea-a-week”
twittering, unseen, but piercingly near,
and his chirping soul responded.
The child liked everything in the world
except Hasty Pudding, but he found the
horses too hoofy, the cattle too horny, the
dogs too bouncy and barky for perfect
companionship ; it was the birds he loved.
He had even steeled himself to listen
without fear to the curlews calling
“kerloo, kerloo,” as they swept in flocks
over the roof in wild, windy weather, or
danced on moonlight nights in the boggy
paddocks, bald with soaked patches of
vffiite gold, thatched with shivery grasses
and tussocks of Kumbungi, and extend-
ing, chequered by grey three-rail fences,
right from Mallow’s Marsh rectory to
the Razorbacks.
*
IT is hardly to be credited that the sound
made by two eyes opening could be
heard all over the rectory, yet, directly
Donalbain peeped himself awake, every
woman in the house was aware of it. His
mother, meandering like a long N in the
middle of a double bed, and, since her
husband’s death, sleeping with the sheet
over her face, would lift a corner of it,
smile, and replace it. His sister Juliet in
the next room to his would throw her
pretty legs over the side of her truckle-
bed and feel for her slippers. His
grandmama, majestic in a four-poster
fringed and curtained in maroon, who,
like most old ladies, never slept, would
pause in her calculation, her difficult
sum in mental arithmetic —if four new
milch cows would bring so many more
pounds of butter to be sold in Parra-
matta market, how long would it take to
save the sum necessary to send Donalbain
to Trinity College, Cambridge, “where
his grandfather had been before.him”?
His grandmama was determined he
should go there!
The rector’s wife was convinced that,
though St. Paul might possibly inspire
saints and martyrs, who need not, of
course, be people of much social stand-
ing, only the classics, only Horace,
could create a gentleman. Mrs. McCree
had no use for “Nature’s gentlemen.”
Indeed she was really desolate that there
had not been* there could never have
been, an Epistle from Horace to St.
Paul.
On this particular spring morning, all
these family manifestations having
happened as usual, the three maids who
were turning out the drawing-room were
also immediately aware that Master
Donalbain was awake. Cook-Teresa,
smiling, handed her millet broom to Min,
the new housemaid, and hurried off to the
dairy to pour out from the bubbling
JjuCket. the glass of warm milk which
Juliet, who had found her slippers, was
to carry upstairs to her brother. In the
interval Tib, the housemaid-emeritus," get-
ting up from her knees, in which
posture she had been “lifting the nap”
where there was any—from the Turkey
carpet (alreadyJwice swept) with a besom
no bigger than a shaving-brush, poked a
head enveloped in a duster out of k side
window directly below the cherubic
gargoye which projected from the
nursery window, to engage Donalbain in
that light badinage for which she had a
talent ; her undoing. Cook-Teresa would
allow no such pleasantries as those Tib
had indulged in with the new boy, Dan
O’Leary; this Tib felt to be unreason-
able in a woman who addressed Master
Donalbain as “young tinker,” “young
Turk,”’ or even “you limb” (of Satan
being understood). *
On the day after his grandson’s fifth
birthday Mr. McCree, who had long
noticed that the women spoilt Donalbain,
also woke the moment the child stirred,
to feel an impression, which had for some
time been teasing the back of his mind,
harden into a resolution ; it was in obedi-
ence to this impulse that the old man
bent his trembling and uncertain steps to
the kitchen, just after eleven o’clock.
AT this hour, much like a seagull scrap-
fishing in the wake of a tea-clipper,
Donalbain was to be found hovering in
Cook-Teresa’s rear. Yes! There he was!
Already he had not done too' b&dly! He
had accepted with red, moist, pursed-up
lips a mouthful of cream, robbed a basin
of rich gleanings of yellow batter,
cajoled a generous munching of lemon-
peel, and, yes, been given, even, so kindly,
a whole delicious cumquat in syrup!
There was sunlight in the kitchen.
The room was gay with the bustle of
work in progress.
Three maids, all in Delft-blue cotton,
worn summer and winter (for who could
feel the cold when active?) and demure
in starched white caps and aprons (in
which they took pride) were red of face
and arm, for the immense stove, roaring
up the flues, was in the act of roasting
a sucking-pig.
Like salmon in a Scottish fishing-lodge
or bloaters in a Yarmouth cottage, suck-
ing-pig was no dish de luxe at Mallow’s
Marsh rectory. There were always so
many male pigs, porkers that must not be
kept, and, being a glut in the market,
could not be sold, born in the six sties
in which, this season, six shameless sows
had each produced litters of thirteen pig-
lets—all of the wrong sex! It was in-
deed an economic necessity that they
should be eaten. *
Mrs. MCCree was well aware that Mrs,
Noah and Mrs. Job must have known a
great deal about life that has not come
down to us; she was in their class; but
—seventy-eight young hogs! Oh, even
Mrs. Noah, even Mrs, Job would have
considered this too much! Just the last
straw!
In the face of this misfortune the
rector’s wife, quite losing her nerve, had
talked with such severity to the man who
kept her pigs that he, usually so meek,
had rebelled, and kept scratching a straw-
colored mop of hair to repeat,
querulously, “Phut, Mum, phwat had Oi
to do with ut? HoW could Oi help ut?”
The grateful smell of cooking pork
grew every moment more perfect in
bouquet, the sizzling of crackling, the
bubbling of beans in a pot, grew every
minute more full of promise, as, sitting
at the freshly scrubbed and sanded table,
Lulu, the betweenmaid, cut white kitchen-
paper into picot-edged flounces, meant to
hide the nakedness of the dresser shelves
and the high mantelpiece above the stove.
Her big curved scissors with their van-
dyked blades snapped and clapped, the
roll of paper diminished, as the spirals of
paper lace increased, while Min, sitting
beside Lulu, being instructed by Cook-
Teresa in the more finicky art of fashion-
ing frills for cutlets, cruets and ham-
bones, plied her small scissors in an
accompanying pizzicato.
Both maids would have been cooler in
the housemaid’s; pantry, but, no! they
preferred the hot kitchen with its con-
stant coming and going of male visitors.
On Mr. McCree’s entrance all four men-
servants had rather sheepishly withdrawn
from the open doorway; Cook-Teresa
was in the habit of giving them all a sup
at eleven ; nothing much ; nothing that
would startle the household bills; a
pewter tankard of small ale or penny ale,
perhaps, or a glass of sparkling cider—
both home-brewed.
IN this feminine air of comfort, warmth,
I plenty and security, Mr. McCree re-
cognised the enemy of his sex. In this
cloying, this enervating atmosphere, this
“monstrous regiment of women,” the
rector saw his grandson’s undoing. He
would become “soft.” His manly
eharacter would be ruined.
Since the poor child had no father, his
grandfather had determined to warn him,
to point out to him the dangers lurking
in the society of females, and he took him
by the hand and led him out through the
orchard to the fallen pear-tree, their usual
trysting - place, Donalbain’s ducklings
following.
Every woman looked out of a window
to watch., them. Eight faces, appearing
at the toy-like, white-curtained apertures
in the red-brick rectory walls, which were
like those in a doll’s house, or a building
in a harlequinade, registered the same
fear, the same knowledge; “he is going
to set the child against us.” Intuitively,
the women realised this; rightly.
Sitting on the lichened trunk of the
fallen pear-tree, which had a living
branch or two because the tree had not
pulled all its roots out of the soil when
it fell, and some remained to nourish it,
Mr. McCree nipped his grandson between
his knees, and firmly held his restless
hands, to keep them from fiddling with
the ducklings, and he looked intently at
the child, with his kind, wise, faded eyes.
which were yet as blue as those which
looked blandly back at him.
“Donalbain, you are five years old,”
Mr. McCree began in his quavering, hesi-
tant voice ; he had been made speechless
by a stroke a year back, and was only
just regaining the power of clear articula-
tion ; “I am your grandfather, eighty-
four years old. Soon you will be alone
with no father and no brother, and only
three women to look after you.”
“It is too sad,” Donalbain said, tears
filling his eyes.
“No, it is not a bit sad,” Mr. McCree
said testily; “it is merely inconvenient.
Well, now, listen well! If a man has land
or a house, he can leave his land or his
house to his sons, or his grandsons. But
I have no land and no house.”
“Can’t I have this land? Or this
house?” Donalbain asked, looking round
him with a wondering air.
“No. These belong to the Church.
They are not mine. When I die they will
go to the new rector of Mallow’s Marsh.
Well, now, if a man has tools, he can
leave them to his children or his grand-
children. But I have no tools to give you.
The only tools I have had with which to
earn a living have been an old book and
a quill pen, and a halting tongue. And it
cost my father a lot of money to have me
taught to read the old book, and write
with the scratchy quill and speak with the
halting tongue.”
“Mr. Noakes the gardener has got a
pick, a shovel, a bill-hook, a pruning-
hook, a scythe and a wheelbarrow,”
Donalbain volunteered, as he looked
across the neat, gently-swaying branches
of the trees planted in narrow arcades in
the orchard, to where the four men were
at work digging a drain.
“Yes, so he has, and he can teach his
sons to use them. But I can’t teach you
to use my tools, because you ard too
young and I am too old. However, there
is one thing I can tell you, and that is
this! You are too big a boy to hang
round the house with the women all day
long! ”
Donalbain was only half-attending.
Working one hand free from his grand-
father’s weak grasp, he swooped on the
duckling which was sipping at his boots,
and turned it upside-down. A scientist
satisfied with a deduction, he dropped
the boat-shaped morsel of yellow fluff
and, slipping "'his hand agalh into his
grandfather’s, prompted dutifully, “Yes,
Grandpapa?” But his thoughts were
with his ducklings. Would they soon lay
eggs?
THE sun, now quite a fiery affair, was
negotiating the bend between the
church tower and the hen-house, and it
threw a few diffident shades across the
blossoming fruit-trees ; across the pears,
each bearing a hint of fruit in the centre
of the last remaining fuzz of vanished
petals; the cherries, with their dancing
and triumphing clusters in full blaze, the
red threads left in the peach-branches,
each shielding swelling beads that in-
tended to be the immense Yellow Mon-
days for which the rectory was famous.
“I have no land, I have no house, I
have no tools, I have no money, but I
have my integrity,” Mr. McCree said, and
as he watched his grandson’s rosy face,
which blossomed no less radiantly than
the blossoming trees, the old man thought,
“How can I explain the meaning of in-
tegrity to so immature an intelligence?”
“Mr. Noakes says I am to avoid women
as I would the devil,” said Donalbain,
Hearing this, Mr. MyCree felt a slight
lightening of the burden on his con-
science ; it was, apparently, to be shared ;
his grandson was, it appeared, to be
accepted into the garnered wealth, the
experience of the world of men ; he was
to be Everyman’s son. Each bit of wis-
dom each man had gathered for himself
he would in all kindness be ready to
hand on to those who followed him. Of
course, so it had always been, so it would
always be.
The old man smiled, the sweet smile of
age, of one helpless, yet unaware of his
helplessness, and his whole face
brightened with that same look of doting
fondness which he had so reprobated in
the women of his household.
“Yes,” the boy continued, “Mr. Noakes


says, if you meet a girl and a death-adder,
kill the girl and cuddle the adder. He
says it’s safer.”
Sitting in his threadbare black cassock
on the grey bole of the fallen pear-tree,
Mr. McCree, who had served his God
devotedly for over sixty years, felt that
none of his experiences had brought him
any knowledge so salty. He considered,
half-astonished, the implications of such
an attitude. He was himself warning his
grandson against the deleterious effects of
a woman’s love; of any woman’s affec-
tion. But need one go so far?
“Little dears,” he murmured to him-
self, forgetting Donalbain, and sipping,
as a bee sips at the memory of some
flowering hours. And there was his wife,
of course—what a good woman she had
been . . . Still!
“You must beware of women.”
“Yes, Grandpapa.”
“You must never allow yromen to get
the whip hand of you, or to encroach too
much on your thoughts, or your time, or
your work.”
“No, Grandpapa.”
“But you must never be unkind to
women. They are weak creatures.” Delv-
ing again into the depths of his memories
he added, “Sometimes you must save
them from themselves,”
“Yes, Grandpapa.” Donalbain was
mystified, but he was a polite child.
“You must look after your poor grand-
mama, your mother, and your sister, and
make money to keep them.”
The Rector of Mallow’s Marsh looked
at the small church in which thirty years
of his life had been spent, mostly on his
knees, where, in all happiness, he had
learnt the beauty of holiness, and the de-
light of serving his God. But his had not
been a profitable life as regards material
things, no, not at all. And when he had
passed to his rest and joined the commun-
ion of the saints (as he was assured he
would ; meeting, he hoped, several other
men from Trinity) the ninety pounds a
year with which his labors had been re-
warded would cease to support his family,
and then —what would happen to them?
He had saved nothing.
Sighing, he collected further scraps of
experience, to dole out,, hopefully, to his
grandson.
“You must have faith.”
“Yes, Grandpapa.”
“You must be a man.”
“Yes. May I begin now? May I have
a catapult and shoot at the birds, and
keep them from eating the seed?” He had
often asked this before, but he saw that
his grandfather was in a yielding mood.
“I would not hurt the birds. Only
frighten them. That boggart Mr. Noakes
put up is no use at all! ”
THERE is nothing that so becomes
an orchard as ecclesiastical black,
however patched and faded it may be,
and Mr. McCree’s cassock swishing
across the green springing orchard grasses
was a telling contrast to that amazing
medley of cumulus clouds the exulting
cherry-trees.
His rosy face bright with the animation
of coming manhood, hopping along to
avoid the persistent nibbling beaks of his
ducklings, his grandson, in a blue linen
smock, chattered away to the old man in
easy confidence. “I see your point,” he
said, “Sir”—this was his first claim to the
status of an adult—“l will stand on my
own feet (as you tell me to); and hang
by my own tail (as Mr. Noakes advises).
I will be very careful about women, too.
Grandpapa.
“More wheat,
More to eat!”
Donalbain chanted in sheer joy of being
alive, as they joined the four working
men. “That’s a poem,” he cried out gaily.
Everyone, Mr. Noakes, Boy Bob, Man
Jonathan and Dan O’Leary, the new;
hand, all agreed fljat it was a good poem,
and putting their picks and mattocks
aside they combined in the manufacture
of a catapult, contrived from the fork of
a cherry-tree, a piece of garter elastic,
and the thumb of a glove. Everyone
there tried the sling out, and gave
Donalbain good advice, and each man
had his own theory about the art of fling-
ing a stone.
Standing beside Mr. McCree, who
looked on, smiling, Dan O’Leary, the new
man, said in a humble, ingratiating voice,
“Indeed, surr, it’s a privilege for us poor
folks to spake to the quality; it does us
poor- people good, surr, just to see the
faces of the high folks.”
He gave a sort of scrape with one
foot, and his bold, handsome face took
on an expression of gentle humility.
“Why did you wink at Mr, Noakes,
Dan?” Donalbain, who stood! on the far
side of the boy, asked interested.
“Wink is ut? It was a tear. Master
Donalbain; I’ve had a sad life and all,
and it’s new to me to be stepping along-
side of the gentry, that it is!” And he
slid a fierce angry look, sideways, at the
child.
The other men kept wooden faces, and
no more was said.
Donalbain then, with his new catapult,
went off to the wheat-field, to drive the
birds from the newly-sown seed. He was
proud and happy. He could see all the
other men at work, and he, too, was at
work, and he, too, was becoming a man,
and what was more, his grandfather had
promised him a fourpenny piece, a Joey,
as a reward for his labors.
So he sent stones as high into the sky
as he could, standing under the larks that
hovered, pouring out their full hearts
near a Heaven that was now entirely blue,
from one horizon to the other. Resplend-
ent, two wampoo pigeons, birds of
passage bound for the scrub, rested a
moment on the arms of the scarecrow,
the boggart, that had been there so long
that inkweed was growing out of his hat.
A family of grey-jumpers, called the
Twelve Apostles, next came hopping over
the ground, and when Donalbain, taking
careful aim, flung a pebble their way (but
not too near) they flew to the branches of
a tree on the edge of the wheat-field,
ascending from branch to branch in a
series of leaps, all the time calling out
harshly and indignantly at the disturber
of their meal. These birds gave
Donalbain lots of fun, and he would
break off work sometimes to tell his
ducklings how silly they were. And he
would refresh hisjove for his ducklings
by rubbing their soft yellow down against
his cheek.
“Do not think, darling, that little
scissors-grinder does any harm, because
he only eats spiders, my pet,” Donalbain
told his eldest duckling, and he did not
shoot at these birds when they came chas-
ing their tails over the plqughed-clods of
earth. But when a whole flock of lori-
keets came sailing and swooping in their
scalloped flights to assail the cherry-trees,
the child had some moments of great,
activity ; he thought of nothing else, rush-
ing to the borders of the wheat patch for
pellets, for pebbles—making his
ammunition of the smallest he could find,
so that they would not hurt even a tiny
bird—and slinging stones wildly about.
“Jerrygang! Jerrygang! ” he shouted in
the exuberance of his joy, and he rolled
about on the grass, and the sun shone,
and the faintest of zephyrs disturbed the
older blossoms and wafted their discarded
petals about like snow in the warm, sweet
air that smelt more of honey than of any-
thing else, though the wall-flowers were
out in the rectory garden, and their scent
came puffing in fragrant gusts of heavier
air.
Far off the Razorback hills were a
deeper blue than the sky, and nothing
stirred in all the miles of waving grasses
beyond the church paddocks; for the
larks had all left the earth, preferring
heaven, and the cattle, since it was noon,
were out of sight, preferring the consola-
tions of the river, in the lower ground,
where the cool yvaters ran noiselessly and
thinly over a rocky bed. The men had
gone to their noonday meal. There was
not a soul about, and the sunlight purred
like a cat.
IT was then that Donalbain noticed Dan
* O’Leary standing on the far side of the
field, watching him. There was some-
thing threatening about his still figure, in
its three-flounced cape-coat and tall hat,
and he looked very big. In that flat
country lambs looked like leviathans.
The child felt in that beautiful hour some
misgiving in his heart. He hoped Dan
would go away, and he pretended that he
was looking for stones close to the
orchard wall, and made believe that he
did not see him.
Donalbain had hoped all along that a
big bird, so large that he could not hurt
it if he hit it, would come along, and now
his wish was fulfilled, for a whole tribe of
currawongs, whistling and wailing, and
behaving with their usual noisy abandon
came rioting down from the hills. They
walked and strutted about, picking up
sticks and looking coy, and putting their
black heads on one side in their absurd
courtships. “Let us build nests” was
what they were saying to one another,
and the cachinnations of the older birds
at some shy first-nester were amusing to
hear.
Donalbain forgot Dan O’Leary.
He. had a handful of stones in the
pockets of his nankin breeches, new
yesterday (and with straps that went
under his Jemimas, his elastic-sided boots
—new, too), and he was fitting a stone
into his sling when he saw that Dan had
come, unseen, round the orchard wall,
and was standing not two feet behind
him.
“Oh, hello, Dan,” he said, to disguise
his trepidation.
“Hello, young master,” Dan said
amiably. “You are learning very fast to
use your catapult, aren’t you? But you
don’t seem to hit much, I notice?”
“I don’t aim to hit the birds, only to
frighten them away.”
“You don’t seem to have frightened
them currawongs.”
“I’ve only just begun to frighten them.
I scared off the Twelve Apostles! and the
lorikeets.”
“They never stay long. They were going
in any case.”
Dan was a very handsome lad, with
black curly hair and dark brown eyes
that were apparently black, for their
pupils had no light in them ; they looked
flat, and had no depths in them, and his
nose was tip-tilted, his ears pointed and
his arms, Donalbain noticed, were so
long that his fingers, as he stood holding
his bundle, reached his knees, and though
he smiled with his big hungry mouth
there was a wind of fear that seemed to
blow about him; he was alien to the
peace of that calm, sunlit hour.
Donalbain felt nervous. He fitted the
stone which had fallen from his sling
back into place, and let fly, to miss a
sitting currawong not ten feet away.
Dan laughed heartily, with a show of
good-fellowship.
“Come, young master, I’ll teach you
how to hit a bird,” he said, and, stretching
out his large, hairy hand, he took the cata-
pult, and, stooping, picked up a stone, and
said to Donalbain, “You watch me hit
that currawong—l’m a dead-sure' shot, I
am!” He drew the elastic well back and
twanged off his missile, and the eldest
duckling, quite in a different direction
to the big piebald bird at which Dan said
he was aiming, fell dead, with its head
hanging almost off its neck.
DAN clicked his tongue.
“Dear me, now, isn’t that mis-
fortunit? Dear.me, indade! To hurt your
duckling—that was the last thing I wanted
for to do,” Dan said gravely, watching
the child’s face fade from red to white.
He would have run to the bird, but
Dan put his foot over the child’s foot, and
said, smiling, “Wait a bit, little master —
I must aim better next time!”
“You are hurting my foot, Dan,”
Donalbain said, trying to pull it from
under the big, heavy boot.
“Am I indade? Oh, no, master, I
wouldn’t for the world hurt the likes of
you, indade, why should I?” He pressed
harder on the small resisting foot under
his heel.
“Just you watch me,” Dan continued,
fitting another stone in the catapult, “I’ll
hit that currawong over there, beyond the
scarecrow. It’s a long shot —just you
watch! ”
The second duckling flopped about,
with the soft embryo of a wing trailing
on the wheat blades. /
“Tut an’ tut! Sure, isn’t that the devil
an’ all? Where’s my cunning gone? I’m
ashamed of meself! To shoot that wide!”
Dan stooped, to look directly into
Donalbain’s smarting eyes.
“I’d best put the poor thing out of its
misery, now!”
Dan knocked the third duckling out
with his next stone.
Then the fourth, the fifth, the six.
“I hope I am not discommoding you
with my foot. Master Donalbain?” he
asked in a gentle, polite tone. “It’s the
difficulty I find in aiming right, that’s
what it is, that make me lean so heavy
on your toes; shall I lift it?”
“Yes, please, Dan,” Donalbain said,
setting his lips.
Dan lifted his boot, and then stamped
it down hard on the child’s small foot.
He made an exclamation of annoyance.
“Now, aren’t I the fool of a man? f
thought I was stamping on that snail,
there, Master Donalbain; I don’t know
what’s come over me this noon, that I
don’t, first I kills all your ducklings,
when I aims at those blasted currawongs,
and then I hurts your foot, stamping on
it—like that! ” He ground his heavy foot
hard on the child’s.
“Does that hurt, little master?”
“Yes, Dan.”
“With its new boots and all,” Dan
murmured softly into Donalbain’s ear.
“Would the other foot be feeling it less,
do you think?”
He brought his foot down.
Donalbain stood, his lips set, looking
at his ducklings.
The one with the broken wing still
struggled, bleeding, to get out of the
trough of earth into which it had fallen.
“Don’t you think it would be kinder,
Master Donalbain, to put that there duck-
ling out of its pain?”
“Yes, Dan.”
“Come over here, then, and just stamp
on it with your boot; that will give it
comfort like —you’d like to be kind,
wouldn’t you, young master?”
“I don’t want to hurt my duckling.”
“Oh, it’s being cruel to be kind, that’s
what it is, just like me! I’m teaching you
something, that’s what I’m doing, but I’m
just a clumsy oaf, just a poor man,
Master Donalbain, and I don’t seem to
have the gift of it, like my betters. They
can thrash my back with a cat-o’-nine-
tails, and do me good, see? Because
they’re the Quality, and can’t go wrong,
but I’m no hand at it!”
Dan walked across and stamped on the
duckling,
IT was said in medieval times that a man
i in the paroxysms of an overpowering
wrath had white eyes.
When, for instance, King Arthur ran
“wood-mad,” as Malory tells, he had
white eyes ; and Langland gives “Ira,”
anger, white eyes.
What was so dreadful to see in
Donalbain, a child transported with rage,
was just that same alarming manifesta-
tion. When he saw Dan stamp on the
wounded duckling, in his fury, his eyes
became white ; the pupils turned inwards,
as it seemed, and slewed round out of
sight, like those of a medium in a trance.
His vibrating feet stamped up and down
on the grass, in a swift staccato tattoo, a
rapid churning! Up and down! Up and
down! Donalbain’s legs moved so quickly
that they were hard to see, like flails on
a windmill, or a man trying to keep his
place on a treadmill. They whirred up
and down! And he thought not at all of
his bruised feet, which were next day to
show black and blue.
The child’s hands beat wildly in front
of him, sawing the air in a demented
fashion, threshing it, hitting out with all
his might when, running over, he got close
enough to Dan O’Leary’s knees and could
reach no higher. And the tears fell in
immense bright clear drops, an incredible
torrent pouring down his now-flushed,
now-scarlet face, round which his yellow
hair stood out almost on end, and a sort
of high, keening wail, a most curious
whinnying noise, came whistling out of
his wide-open mouth, moist and dripping
with saliva.
It was a noise so piercing that it seemed
impossible that he could be making so
strange, so clamorous a shrieking; an
animal braying, a primitive echo from the
first abortive transports of man.
Dan O’Leary was amused and gratified.
At that moment he almost liked Donal-
bain.
He stuck the catapult back in the little
boy’s breeches pocket, and started tick-
ling him.
At this last outrage the inverted eyes
came back into focus.
Donalbain turned and ran back over
the ploughed field, the once-hopeful arena
of his first initiation into the service of
his fellows, racing back, through the
shadowy orchard, where so lately he had
stood, a happy child between his grand-
father’s knee, pelting back still screaming
at the top of his voice, past the laundry,
the kitchen door, along the narrow straw-
berry beds, screaming, screaming in that
high, ass-like bray of sheer terror.
(Continued on next page.)
ABOUT CAROLINE.
(3) She Has Closed the Fields.
She has closed the fields of her heart
and tied
The sliprail bars with knots of hide,
There grasses and weeds grow high and
rank
And the pleasant creeks are foul and
dank
And she says: “This surface of my
heart
I will keep to myself, separate, apart.
If a rider comes on a way once known
He will find the track so overgrown
I hope he will turn,” she says, “escape
From the desolation of this landscape.”
“But can he escape?” she asks, “For is
Not this dreariness as much his
As mine, these unmown straggling
weeds
I nurtured—after he sowed the seeds?
Then what shall I do if he comes to me
For,l gave him half this territory
Freehold, fee-simple? My defence,
What is it worth if he jumps the fence?
With intricate knots 1 have barred my
life,
How will they hold if he brings a
knife?”
She is a shut-in field, she stands
Acquiescing the waste of her lands.
She is bitter, but while she broods and
lingers
He is blowing his half of her dust
through his fingers.
She is in hiding, in vain she hides
For he does not look for her as he rides,
And he hasn’t jumped a fence for years
So she might as well laugh—but she
chooses tears;
And she says: “Though the knots are
very strong
With a keen fine blade they won’t hold
long.”
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


FORDSON MAJOR
CUTS WORKING COSTS
ALL THE YEAR
m
m
mm
lIP
■:■>:<«
There’s a Fordson combination of power,
gear ratios and equipment that’s right
for your job and your soil
Fordson Major provides a lower cost per horsepower
than any comparable tractor. But that is not the only
factor in the certain manner in which Fordson cuts
your working costs. Fordson provides a choice of
power —Kerosene (rated drawbar h.p. 21.5) or Diesel
(rated drawbar h.p. 28) —a wide range of optional gear
ratios —wheeled or half track units and a range of tyre
and wheel equipment. Your local Fordson Dealer will
give you all the details of these Fordson combinations
and advise you which will get the work done at least
cost in your particular job.
PLOUGHING
•DISC HARROWING
-
SOWING
HARVESTING
HAY BALING
FORDSON
FARMS
• -V : ■ '
AUSTRALIA
Choice of Diesel or Kerosene Power
Choice of gear ratios and tyre equipment
Ample Drawbar power for any size farm
Lowest cost per horsepower >l4
Full local Dealer service
Enquire from your State Distributor:
N c ft . Motor Tractors Pty. Ltd., 369-385 Wattle St., Ultimo. VICTORIA:—MaIcoIm Moore Pty. Ltd.,
300 City Rd., South Melbourne. QUEENSLAND :-Buiacott’s (Q’ld.) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:—Power Plant Ltd., 98-100 Currie Street, Adelaide. WEST AUSTRALIA;—Lynas
Motors Pty. Limited, 981-983 Hay Street, Perth.
OR FROM YOUR LOCAL FORDSON DEALER
\-
■y
9 IiW^
FMS2-44
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.) RED. OFFICE: GEELONG, VIC.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GERTRUDE ELIZABETH FOGARTY
late of Oakleigh in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that JOHN PATRICK
FOGARTY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1228 of 1950 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 29th day of
November 1950 and obtain a copy_of the
Petition without charge from GEOFFREY
SEE GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, 18 Martin
Place Sydney—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Public Notice.
I FARIDE WIGAN, of Lebanese nation-
a’lity born at Babroun, Lebanon, and resi-
dent’ 14 months in Australia (wife of
NICHOLAS WIGAN, naturalised Austra-
lian), now resident of High Street,
Hillston, N.S.W., intend to. apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
Every woman’s face again ap-
peared at the rectory windows.
Eight alarmed, compassionate
women leaving those points of
vantage rushed down, rushed out
to meet the child, and even his
mother, throwing aside her
novel, jumping up from her
rocking-chair,' after one wild
look from her bedroom window,
rushed downstairs so quickly, her
white spotted wrapper stream-
ing out behind her in the wind
of her swift passage, that she
was the first to reach him, and
Donalbain flung himself into her
open arms, that maternal refuge,
and cried till he slept.
LIKE that first dove sent out
from the Ark, Donalbain
had come home. Of the death
of his ducklings, of the know-
ledge of evil, of cruelty, which
he had gained in that moment of
his initial experience of the
world outside the nursery, he
spoke never a word. He
answered no questions. Instmc-
lively he conformed to the mas-
culine code.
There is nothing so mysterious
as the way in which the seeds of
the future germinate in the
character of a child.
It is a miracle, like that of the
bud, which has, folded in it, the
uncurled petals of the rose.
It is time s triumph, like the
fashioning of the cone, the
brass cone, which is to be a
trumpet, silent till breath ani-
mates it, till breath blows the
fanfare, the music for which,
from the first casting of the in-
strument, preparations had been
ma de.
On the spring day the child
Donalbain’s destiny was made
manifest; it was made coherent
on that spring day when he, on
waking, approved of the sun-
rise, when his teeming heart was
united with the singing bird’s,
when he and little “guinea-a-
week” sang a psalm together,
when he was happy among the
women of his grandfather’s
household, when (with the eyes
of a scientist) he studied his
duckling, and with the eyes of
a dutiful child he looked up at
his grandfather, to learn, with-
out speech, the meaning of the
word integrity.
On that spring noonday, when,
without rancor, and being for
the first time conscious of a
sense of duty to others, of the
pleasure of service, of a male
desire to protect the weak, when
he drove the birds from the
patch of wheat; his family’s
bread; and, then, seeing the
death of his birds, felt in his
young, untried heart the anger
of the Saviour unable to save,
of the pitiful soul unable to
exercise the virtue of pity, or to
save the helpless, the suffering;
or to master (with his puny
strength) the evildoer; in that
moment when Donalbain rea-
lised that he was helpless in the
presence of cruelty, of wicked-
ness, his fierce emotion operated
like a dye, like woad, like
murex, to color his whole
nature. Like a piece of cloth,
a piece of blue cloth, dipped in
a vat, to come out purple, he
was metamorphosed by that
moment, to be, then, what he
always wanted to be; at that
moment, at every moment of
his childhood, his youth, his
manhood, his age.
Yes, Donalbain’s character
was stabilised by all he suffered
then. His experience on that
bright noonday made him the
child, the youth, the man he
was always to be; the crisis
of that encounter, the agony of
that defeat, which taught him he
was not omnipotent, that he was
powerless in the presence of sin
(it is the lesson all must learn),
stood like a peak in the accu-
mulated sensations of his whole
life.
Like a -child of five he cried
himself to sleep. Like a child
he accepted the comfort of his
mother’s embrace, but deep in
his heart he had learnt all he
was ever to know of man’s
capacity for a grief beyond con-
solation.
He had exhausted himself in
this knowledge.
That night the moon, caprice
itself, looked down on Donal-
bain sleeping by the uncurtained
window, sleeping with his cot
drawn as close as could get it to
the wide-open window, and the
moon said (quoting Baudelaire)
“This child pleases me.”
And the moonbeams dropped
down through gigantic stairways
of parting clouds and streamed
unimpeded through the panes of
glass, the doubled panes of the
push-up open window, high
above his head, and touched his
face as if to caress it, to bless it,
to print on it the splendor of the
human knowledge of good apd
evil, of sorrow, of joy, and this
radiant light became articulate
with the moon’s promise;
“You shall live under the in-
fluence of my kiss. You shall
be beautiful in my manner. You
shall love all that I love, water,
clouds, silence, darkness and the
illimitable sea.”
And from that day and from
that night the sun was Donal-
bain McCree’s brother, and the
moon was his sister, and in his
long, useful and distinguished
life, though love informed him,
he cared to make no nearer
relationships.
DUT Tib, the housemaid-
*—' emeritus, the girl of six-
teen, knew nothing of such
depths when, after the moon
rose, she slipped out from her
attic to join Dan, who was wait-
ing for her behind the orchard
wall in his three-tiered driving
coat and rakish hat; clothes
which Mr. Noakes had called “a
nob’s togs,” and had asked him
where he came by them?
Tib had her neat carpet-bag,
bright with wool roses as big as
cabbages, which had, enclosed
in it, the wardrobe which the
Duke of Wellington himself had
chosen for female emigrants; a
mixed bag of eight calico gar-
ments (in the selection of which
the Duke had betrayed a singu-
lar innocence) and two pocket-
handkerchiefs and one hucka-
back towel; she wore a dress
of grey linsey-woolsey and a
coalscuttle bonnet, into which,
with great daring, she had stuck
a rose.
The child had a month’s
wages—the twelfth part of two
pounds—tied in a corner of her
handkerchief, and she was not
afraid of anything that might
happen to her.
Though man’s inhumanity to
man may make the angels weep,
Nature shows a singular and
impartial beneficence, bestow-
ing on king and tinker alike the
best earth has to offer; Dan,
walking in that soft moonlight
night through the orchard with
Tib, the simulacra of last year’s
apples, the dust of last autumn’s
toad’s-meat crumbling and dis-
persing under his footprints,
was triumphant. While the
lovers trudged the long miles
into Parramatta his voice mur-
mured untiringly, as he told
Tib of all he had suffered and
of all he meant to achieve.
And they delighted in each
other, the strong, handsome
young man in the pride of his
manhood, and the innocent girl
in the budding beauty of her
womanhood, and they had no
fear of each other, or of the
future.


i SWISS^MASTERPIECESI
9 •
7
uuuuuu
□ Du
□ ao
□ o
WITH THE
NON-MAGNETIC
ESCAPEMENT
£AVm
WATCHES
Founded 1852
VILLIERT * SUISSE
ly Jewelled movement
LW6
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CIiIJB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
82/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, In 2oz
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 11, Talley P. 0., Brisbane.
OUR SECOND RELEASE
OF GEORGE CARSON-COOLING’S •
REMARKABLE BOOK
“HERE’S A VILLAIN”
“A revelation of skullduggery in edu-
cation... .There are chapters which
approach violence.” —Sydney Bulletin.
AT ALL BOOKSTALLS—PRICE 16/-
Watson Ferguson & Company—Publishers
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK HORACE GILKES late
of Glenbrook.—TAKE NOTICE that
MARY WINIFRED GILKES has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2192 of 1950
on the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
21st day of November 1950 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from VINCENT J. BRADY, DONALD
& CO., Solicitors, 60 Hunter Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
L
L
fl
n
0 □
n
m
I
jm
m
m
m
m
INVERNESS
ABERDEEN
1
PERTH
+
m
m
*
«m
GLASGOW
EDINBURGH
M
DUMFRIES
BELFAST
Mi
iwi
m
t
m
YORK
llanrwst
+.
LLANGOLLEN
*¥
NORWICH
STRATFORD-ON-AVON
! h+
WORCESTER
■ ALDEBURGH
-r 4?
CAMBRIDGE AZ
m
DAVID’S
+
m
i
SWANSEA
+
CHELTENHAM
m
»»
OXFORD
+
MMI
Hi
LONDON
BATH
CANTERBURY
BRIGHTONf
m
m
BOURNEMOUTH
m
r
+
Festivals
of the Art
Exhibitions
m
m
VS
■pvußiNG the Festival Summer from May to Sep-
■‘“-'tember 1951, the visitor to Great Britain will
find something of interest going on everywhere. In
addition to the centres shown above, cities, towns
and villages all over the country will take part in this
great national event. With exhibitions, arts festivals,
carnivals, pageants and sporting events of all kinds,
there will be something for everyone to see, to enjoy,
and to remember.
Further details of the Festival Programme will be
published in this journal over the next six months.
C. 2
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Trial by Pirates."
Double-barrelled Gilsullivan
—“Trial by Jury” and “The
Pirat;s of Penzance” —comprised
the Firm’s second offering of the
Sydney season.
In no Gilbert libretto is less
scope offered the chief comedian
than as Major-General Stanley
in the “Pirates.” Even in the
work which gets closest to drama
—“The Yeomen of the Guard”
—Jack Point can wring quite
a bit of comedy out of his ex-
changes with Wilfred Shadbolt,
the head jailer. This frustration
of his natural gifts seemed to
weigh heavily on Ivan Menzies.
Even his recital on the excel-
lence of his knowledge of things
vegetable, animal and mineral,
as becomes the very model of
a modern major-general, was
overcast with sobriety, though
the clarity of his exposition as
he tore along at around 250
w.p.m. was fascinating in fts
facility.
One of the best of the night’s
characterisations was that of
Graeme Bent as Sam, the
pirate king’s lieutenant. Of
horrific mien, he threw himself
into the minatory phases with
great verve, and sang with forth-
rightness and resonance. John
Dean also sang spiritedly. He
was too weighty in the jowl,
however, to lend conviction to
his role of an apprentice barely
out of his indentures. Bernard
Manning’s Pirate King was a
capital piece of work, and he
put to good effect his comic
flair for spreading his speaking
voice over the couple of octaves.
His singing, however, lacked the
punch he had put into his
Mikado.
To subdue a band of pirates
with her bewitching smile and
daintiness presented Helen
Roberts with about as much
effort as one would need to take
a bottle from a baby ; her “Poor
Wandering One” was delight-
fully sung, her coloratura on
the half-voice being most effec-
tive. Of the lugubrious lot of
those whose constabulary duty
is aggravated by costers jump-
ing on their mothers Richard
Walker made a harrowing tale,
with rousing chorus support, in
“When the Foeman Bares His
Steel.” The rest of the solo
voices were just f.a.q. Generally
the choruses were strong, and, in
the big hymn-like number, they
reached a very high standard.
The pipe-opener, “Trial by
Jury,” tripped along at com-
mendable pace, aided greatly by
Leslie Rands’s comically-digni-
fied judge, Murial Howard’s
charmingly coquettish Angelina
and good singing by Colin
Thomas (plaintiff’s counsel) and
Noel Wotherspoon (defendant).
In both operas sets and dres-
sings were well up to standard.
"The Voice ofluhe
Turtle."
Largely because of the plea-
sant, natural performances of
Wendy Blacklock and Peter
Richards, the Kuringai Theatre
Guild makes quite an agreeable
evening’s light entertainment of
“The Voice of the Turtle,” J.
Van Druten’s comedy of a
soldier who spends his week-
end’s leave in New York in the
bachelor flat of a girl who is an
intriguing mixture of innocence
and worry as to whether her
two previous affairs constitute
promiscuity.
From a dozen and more
natural little gestures and de-
tails which both players fitted
casually and cleverly into their
acting it would appear that both
have, commendably, gone to no
end of trouble and rehearsal to
conceal the fact they have gone
to no end of trouble and re-
hearsal. The results are almost
completely successful. Miss
Blacklock, in fact, gives such a
fetching performance that, at
times, one begins to wonder if
she is acting.
The third member of the cast,
a hard-bitten, predatory blonde,
is played well enough by Clarice
Mason, although she sacrifices
credibility to the cause of
comedy.
Richards also produced the
show —careful, unhurried direc-
tion which, even if it leaves an
empty stage or a moment’s
silence for a fraction too long
in places, at least takes good
care of the gentle warmth of
the piece.
Musica Viva.
This ensemble has been heard
to better advantage than its latest
Sydney concert. True, it put
some good playing into the Beet-
hoven Piano Trio, Op, 70 No. 2.
Maureen Jones’s work at the
keyboard was instinct with good
taste; in the swift changes of
moods which mark the middle
movement, and in the strength of
the rhythmic devices, piano and
strings continued with perfect
understanding.
The same qualities of dove-
tailed integration and interpre-
tative strength were less in
evidence in the Mozart String
Quartet in D Major (K 499).
There was too much of
mechanics and too little of
poetry, and blitheness was
unaccountably abandoned.
Smetana’s String Quartet in
E Minor ,(“From My Life”)
fell in quality between the
other two works. The hint of
personal tragedy—the composer’s
deafness, by then almost com-
plete—was faithfully limned, the
rhythms of the Polka Allegro
were ebullient, but much of the
warmth and tenderness inherent
in the Largo Sostenuto was lost.
The Finale, with the tragic epi-
logue following fast on the heels
of the gay Bohemian dance tune,
was quartet-playing close to its
best.
Said to be worthy successors
to the Boyd Neil ensemble, the
Robert Masters quartet, an
English organisation which had
its origin in a Devonshire com-
munity formed to further cul-
ture, education and agriculture,
and which was brought out by
the British Council, took the
stage at the Melbourne Town
Flail last week and was promptly
lost in the acoustical mazes of
the vast building. What put it
into the A.B.C.’s head to place
intimate chamber-music in an
environment more suitable for a
brass band isn’t known. It might
just as well have asked the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra to
play Beethoven’s Ninth on a
mouth-organ. Robert Masters,
violinist, Muriel Taylor, ’cello,
Nannie Jamieson, viola, and
Kinloch Anderson at the piano
were the relevant performers,
and it at least can be said that
they put up a stout fight in ad-
verse conditions. Halfway
through the programme the
musicians seemed to realise the
situation and gave more volume
to their playing, though whether
it was at the expense of nuance
it was difficult to judge. Mozart’s
Piano and String Quartet in G
Minor came through better than
the others, and there was wit and
humor in the String Trio of Jean
Fran?aix.
A light grace pervades Cedric
Flower’s paintings at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries, which are
mostly fantasies of child-art and
the child-mind. They are not a
very satisfying form of art, any
more than a doll’s-house is a
satisfying form of house, but
there is no doubt about their
thin charm. Two reconstructed
landscapes, one of Circular
Quay which seems, like some of
the other paintings, to owe
something to Francis Lym-
burner, and one of Tilba Tilba
on the N. S. Wales south coast,
which comes out reddish-brown
instead of the brilliant green
one remembers, are quite im-
pressive efforts to expand, and
there are two very small paint-
ings, one of some dogs burrow-
ing after a rabbit and one of a
kitchen stove with an iron and
a pot of beans on top of it and a
mad cat underneath, which
show that Flower is capable of
observing life as well as the
popular fashions in art.
A programme of ballet pre-
sented by that sterling dancer
Laurel Martyn and the Ballet
Guild was staged in the Stawell
Gallery at the National Gallery
in Melbourne before what could
be regarded as the handsomest
backcloth any posse of dancers
has ever gyrated in front of. It
included file Rembrandt “Self-
portrait,” Tiepolo’s “Banquet of
Cleopatra,” Memling’s “Pieta”
and a couple of dozen Old
Masters whose total value may
have been in the region of half
a million. Schumann’s “Carna-
val,” choreography by Michael
Fokine, “Paul L’Admirault,”
choreography by Laurel Martyn,
and extracts from “Contes
Heraldiques,” with music by
Dorian le Galhenne, the local
composer, comprised the pro-
gramme. If ballet is included
there were three arts in juxta-
position, each speaking its own
language. To disentangle one’s
impressions, of this one from
that one was a major operation,
but it could be said that Miss
Martyn’s ballet —the action of
which is supposed to take place
in the mind of the choreographer
and is an attempt at an answer
to the perennial question “How
do you compose a ballet?” —had
some charming moments, and
Tamara des Fontaines gave it a
lovely body and some graceful
movements.
Without knowing Emlyn Wil-
liams’s worst play one would be
inclined to nominate “A Murder
Has Been Arranged,” the
Mosman Theatre Guild’s latest
presentation, as a fair possibility
for that distinction. When he
isn’t staging Welsh revivalist
meetings Mr. Williams seems to
run to showing that his observa-
tion of human beings is in in-
verse proportion to his consider-
able knowledge of stage business
and mechanics — one might
almost say in fact that he drives
his vehicles with four gears and
a clutch and makes a lot of
noise doing it. The murder piece
is on the haunted stage of an
empty theatre being used for a
supper-party by a ghost-investi-
gator who is also to inherit a
fortune on the same evening. He
is, of course, murdered by the
next in the line for the boodle,
and, of course, a ghost brings
about final retribution. The
Mosman Guild made an en-
thusiastic attack on the piece
under the direction of Charles
Caspersonn, but they were out-
generalled by Mr. Williams, who,
in the words of an eminent
authority on tactics, seems to be
a master of mobile warfare on a
shifting front. Some minor vic-
tories were scored by Mr, Cas-
personn, who is a very good
actor, and who took the part of
the murdered ghost-hunter and
succeeded in making more of it
than he made of the play; by
Audreye Clarke as a grim and
gloomy secretary with quite a
few nuances in her acting; and
by Patrick Bowley as the flam-
boyant murderer. Mr. Williams
routed the rest of the cast.
Spring-fevers.
A mild attack of spring-fever
brought out a rash of stage-
shows in Sydney, ranging from
the problems of homosexuality
at the Independent Theatre to
0 Continued on page 35.)


w
Mr. Executor can relax
t
at Iasi
M :
A
tm
Although retired, Mr. Executor soon found that looking after
other people’s affairs was an exacting job. Very wisely he decided
to share unsought responsibilities with Burns Philp Trust Company
Limited. This Company’s officers are thoroughly conversant with
the management of estates. Beneficiaries are protected at every
turn. A senior trust officer will be glad to answer your questions.
If you are unable to call, write for the booklet, “Hands That
Never Leave the Wheel.”
DIRECTORS:
James Burnt Joseph Mitchell P, T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton. F.F.lAi
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
“Executor, Trustee, Agent”
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
Tol. BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.O,
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO EVELYN BLANCH PORTER late
of Taylor Street Armidale. —TAKE
NOTICE that LEYTON WILLIAM CLYDE
PORTER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2407 of 1950 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years or upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 20th
November 1950 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from A. W.
SIMPSON & CO., Solicitors, 121 Faulkner
Street, Armidale; or their Sydney Agents,
SLY & RUSSELL, Solicitors, 16 Barrack
Street, Sydney—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
The ALL-BRITISH
(onuKuiffiahKiit
(Tend, ike
GreideM
value
N?5B
451-
PRICES
RANGE
FROM
19/6
TO
55/-
*9
N? 70
22/6
7fte Tenu/itk
the THatweMruA Hlh /
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD. LONDON
S. W. RAMSAY. MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
THE SERVICE MAN
MciCArthur
Lands Annin
» *
“Ek Dam” • General Mac-
Arthur must have had a good
laugh at the weekend if hehas had
time to read the lucubrations of
the 260 correspondents who are
hxs guests in Korea. Some have
doubted the wisdom of his
policy in refusing to censor dis-
patches, but that policy has paid
dividends. P
The concern of the average
modem correspondent is not fact
but a “story,” and the best stories
always are those about desperate
situations. Front-line troops are
always willing to oblige, and
every event becomes a sensation.
Any advance by the enemy is
to be rated as a “break-through,”
No enemy ever advances through
undefended country. He “rips
a gap” in the American line.
Last week, according to Press
reports, he was supposed to be
ripping with a vengeance, and
the U.S. commands used news-
paper tendencies to encourage the
idea. It seemed only a matter of
time, on September 10, according
to most journals, before the
North Koreans would be found
camped in Pusan. All this was
to the good in the circumstances,
since the enemy must have felt
round the end of the first week
in September that U.S. defence
was near collapse. Therefore,
thanks to sensational newspaper
reporting, the enemy was prob-
ably deceived into believing that
he was in the midst of victory.
All this, no doubt, helped the
U.S. command to lull the enemy
into a feeling of security. It is
certain that by September 7
the attempts of the enemy
to take Taegu had failed,
despite penetrations of the
British positions on the western
front and the heavy pressure on
the U.S. First Cavalry to the
north of it. The southern end
of the defence-line had never
really been threatened, and the
ease with which the North
Koreans had advanced along the
northern side of the defence-box
was presently explained in a very
practical way. For the time
being the further the enemy ad-
vanced southward in the east the
better the U.S. command liked it.
A feature of the enemy ad-
vance had been its use of two so-
called tank brigades, each of
about 40 tanks, which suggested
that they were earnest in their
belief that their attacks could get
somewhere, but the arrival of
Pershings, 43-tonners with a
90-mm. gun, had changed the
atmosphere of tank warfare,
which was due to be even more
revolutionised some time this
month by the advent of the
British Centurion —48 tons with
an 83-mm. gun, reckoned the
best tank of its type in the world.
The Pershings and the new U.S.
weapons guaranteed the situa-
tion,. and the fact that South
Korean troops could be spared
to land on two- islands off the
west coast on September 7
showed the real status of the
situation.
On the Offensive
By September 14 all the yarns
about “break-throughs” and
threats to Taegu had been for-
gotten. The Allies were on the
offensive, and General Walker,
Commander of the Eighth Army,
told front-line troops that “we
will go forward soon.”
Next day meaning was given
to his words by a series of opera-
tions which proved to the North
Koreans the disadvantage of long
and limited lines of communica-
tions in a peninsula.
First the South Koreans made
two landings on the east coast,
one at a point two miles north
of Pohang, which the North
Koreans had captured about 12
days before, and the other at
Ypngdok, 25 miles to the north.
These cut or threatened the east-
coast supply-road of the enemy
which in any case had been so
vulnerable to naval attack as to
be of little use. •
At the same time a landing was
made at Kunsan, a west-coast
port which serves Taejon, and
is the enemy’s road-head on the
sea on the western side of
the U.S. defence-box. This
attack synchronised with a
sudden thrust by the U.S. forces
in the box along the railway and
road north-west of Taegu
towards Taejon. These opera-
tions were evidently designed to
make it difficult for the enemy
to retreat hurriedly and to hold
him by the seat of the trousers
and keep him out of other events
further north.
At the same time Superfor-
tresses cut all road- and rail-
communication with the north
as far as possible.
MacArthur Attacks Seoul
While this was going on there
suddenly appeared off Inchon,
the port of Seoul, 150 miles be-
hind the North Korean lines, an
invasion fleet in the MacArthur
tradition headed by the General
himself, who was celebrating his
12th Pacific landing operation.
It went through the motions
familiar in landing against the
Japanese, including heavy naval
bombardment by fleets headed
by the 16iri.-gun battleship Mis-
souri. The force of ships totalled
262 everything from open
launches to battleships—of which
194 were United States, 12 Royal
Navy vessels, a cruiser and two
destroyers Canadian, two Austra-
lian small ships and two N.Z.
destroyers, with one Dutch, one
French and 32 U.S. ships under
charter to Japan, and some local
craft.
About 350 aircraft joined in
the attack, which was carried out
in two stages. First Wolmi Island
was taken in a few minutes, since
it commands the entrance to
Inchon Harbor —better known
as Chemulpo to those who re-
member the Russo-Japanese war.
The landing was made by U.S.
Marines under Major-General
Oliver Smith, and Major-General
Edmund Almond assumed com-
mand of the beachhead estab-
lished south of Inchon, which
was soon taken.
Next day a second detachment
of Marines went ashore, while
the ships at sea battered the hill
country east of the port and the
road and rail to Seoul until an
armored and artillery force,
spearheaded by tanks and
strongly supported by artillery,
got under way for the capital a
few miles away. Before the day
was out it was reported that units
of this force were fighting in the
Seoul streets, but this report was
an anticipation of events.
“According to Schedule”
On September 17, under
General MacArthur’s personal
command, operations in the
Seoul area were going “to
schedule” according to the
official reports. The Marines
were advancing on Seoul from
the west and south-west against
stiffening resistance and had
reached the outer suburbs.
General MacArthur’s com-
munique reported:
Unloading is ahead of schedule.
The First American Marine Division
continued to advance yesterday after-
noon (16th) against stiffening sporadic
resistance. The Communists were
taken by surprise, and their reaction
was slow and indecisive. Our losses
have so far been light, and the Com-
munists’ high.
In the south, with U.S.S. Mis-
souri transferred to assist them,
the South Koreans who were
landed above Pohang were pre-
paring to mount their attack on
the Communist left coastal flank
from the inside, while all avail-
able U.S. and South Korean
strength in the defence-box was
being concentrated to break the
corner of the north angle of the
North Korean siege-ring near
Waegwan. Thus the northern
side of the defence-box had
Allied forces assailing each end
of it and in the east from both
sides. The progress being made
was remarkable in view of the
position a week before.
The enemy was placed im-
mediately in a bad way by these
moves. With sea and air at the
command of the United Nations
forces, he depends for supplies
and reinforcements on three
main roads southward of Seoul
—one through Seoul itself,
which is so vital that the
throttling of it alone is enough
to beat him, one very second-
class, down the centre through
Chunchon (where it joins the
main road from Seoul)
Chungju and Sanju to the Waeg-
wan region and thence to Taegu.
The third runs with the east-coast
railway. _
It looked as if he must almost
immediately be cut off with
enemies on both flanks of his
line of retreat, and General
Walker’s army in the “defence-
box” on his tail acting, accord-
ing to General Mac Arthur, as
the anvil against which he may
be beaten to pieces from the
north.
Will Russia Act ?
It is not all so easy as it
looks. There is a good deal of
fight in the North Koreans. Un-
less they are completely stupid,
they must have foreseen the cer-
tainty of the present situation
in view of the potential strength
of the U.N.O. nations and the
fact that they were operating on
a peninsula. If they should
have strong reserves or outside
help in North Korea the fight
may still be long and bloody.
The real nature of the resistance
in Seoul was not obvious to the
outside world on September 17.
The Press reports were, as
usual, exaggerated and prema-
ture —as, for instance, when the
capture of the Kimpo airfield
was reported 24 hours before it
seems to have been approached.
It remains to be seen what
strength North Korea has in
its own territory only a few
miles from Seoul and whether
Chinese or Russian Manchurian
troops and resources will be sent
to its assistance. There have
been reports of the assembly of
large forces on the northern
border of North Korea so far
completely unconfirmed from
any official source. If there are,
and they are used to help the
North Koreans, the war will
assume a much wider signifi-
cance.
Those who believe that Russia
will allow the situation to take
its course are over-optimistic.
After having promoted and
armed the invasion of South
Korea, Moscow cannot desert
its satellite without losing con-
siderable face in Asia and with-
out its plans in other areas being
seriously affected. Even its re-
lations with China might, and
Mao might go the way of Tito
when the latter realised that
Russia looks on satellite coun-
tries only as reservoirs for the
materials of world conquest.
All the World Arming.
“Ek Dum”: With the United
Nations Assembly meeting on
September 19 both Mr.
Vyshinsky and Mr. Spender will
be there —the atmosphere of the
world becomes less united every
day.
Apart from Korea, the situa-
tion in Asia grows more restive
with Moscow, the home of
“peace,” the driving force, its
radio egging on every country
to disorder.
Little is heard in Australia of
what goes on—the new Persian
outbreaks, for instance, which
are brazenly inspired by the
Soviet Union, whose radio-
stations in Azerbaijan have been
openly urging the Kurds of
Persia, Irak and Turkey to hos-
tilities against their Govern-
ments with a view to forming a
new Kurdish Socialist Soviet.
Republic.
Actual fighting started as a
result of this agitation on Sep-
tember 2 between Persian troops
and tribesmen numbering about
20,000 located about 25 miles
from Kermanshah who refused
to lay down their arms when
called upon, while the Russian
radio in Azerbaijan shouted that
it was the duty of the Kurds to
“kidnap or kill any official from
Tehran, Ankara or Bagdad upon
whom they could lay hands,” at
the same time issuing an assur-
ance that “if world war breaks
out the Kurdish people will be
found fighting shoulder to
shoulder with the Soviet People’s
Army against imperialism and
the capitalist reactionaries.”
Though this is only a local
affair, it is part of the whole
pattern of aggression, which is
drawing the immediate destinies
of the world away from peaceful
development, and leading it to
become almost wholly pre-
occupied with the thought of its
own safety in the face of the
threat of the 175 divisions at


///
o
1
Vd
KI2
NewZIPP/ New DRIVE/New ENERGY/
Vital health and new abounding energy can
be yours with a daily dose of R.U.R. R.U.R.
cleanses the system, sweeping away all the
harmful poisons which sap your energy.
Start yourself on the way to REAL
HEALTH. Buy a 2/- packet of ready-to-
take R.U.R. from your chemist today.
“JAKE R.U.R. AND RIGHT YOU ARE.”
R.
IF.
R.
B
wm
mu
a/
m
9§
SHIRTS
V
■
JUT
THE BRAND WITH A PEDIGREE
TOP DOG
“Best of all
23rd June, 1950.
My memory has improved. 1
now pay more attention to detail,
which is a big thing in my work.
Best of all though, my wife says
I am far more considerate since
taking the Pelman Course.
—K.115, Mine Manager.
Increased Faith in Self
13th June, 1950.
I have gained definitely in memory,
observation, efficiency, increasing
my faith in myself, in having
better contact with other people,
and in a monetary way. Thank
you very much.
—H.3013, Draughtsman.
Headquarters:
London.
Established
Melbourne,
1907.
s?
*HQ
New Zealand Inquirers
The Pelman Institute, with the
approval of the Reserve Bank, has
made arrangements to meet the
financial restrictions and enable
residents of New Zealand to enrol
for the Pelman Course of Training
without delay. Write in the first
instance to the Pelman Institute,
Melbourne.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
There is a law in each of the qualities of observation,
concentration, self-confidence, will-power, initiative, social
ease, and for each of the several aspects of memory.
Pelmanism explains these laws and applies them to the
pupil’s own condition.
Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch, Professor of English
Literature, Cambridge, said: “Pelmanism has unity of
design: it has the root of the matter” Dr. Maurique,
Professor of Neurology, Brussels, said: “Pelmanism and
I admire it unreservedly—has in simple terms rendered the
doctrinal side of psychology accessible to everyone.”
“The Efficient Mind” is posted free on application to
the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders
Lane, Melbourne. Write, call or telephone MB 2555.
r
TO the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne. . _ „
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “The Efficient Mina.
NAME
ADDRESS
241
which the British Government
now estimates the strength of
the Red Army, apart from the
forces of its satellites.
Time Limit of Safety
Defence plans among the
Atlantic peoples are taking shape
with a speed which lends color
to the warning of Air-Chief-
Marshal Sir James Robb,
C.-in-C. of the Air Forces of
Western Europe, given on Sep-
tember 5 that there was a limit
to the time the Western Euro-
pean nations could afford to wait
for an increase in aircraft pro-
duction, and that it was a matter
not merely of marshalling British
industries, but the whole indus-
trial skill of Western Europe
and the United States so as to
produce the best product. He
added that what must be done
involved willingness to achieve
an insurance-policy to cover an
ever-increasing risk, and he con-
cluded that “the premium might
seem high, but it was cheap by
comparison with the catastrophe
which would assuredly overtake
us if we did not institute the
necessary precautions immedi-
ately.”
France and Conscription
Following President Truman’s
statement last week three nations,
Britain, Canada and France,
have announced advances in the
detail of their plans during the
past fortnight.
M, Pleven, the French
Premier, in a speech at Stras-
bourg said that in circumstances
highlighted by what had taken
place in Prague and Korea there
were only two possible attitudes
—surrender or courage, and sur-
render could only lead to
“humiliation, deportation,
slavery, destroyed homes,
desecrated altars, civilisation
wiped out,” while courage would
involve a necessary sacrifice, in-
cluding a lengthening of the term
of French conscript service to 18
months in order to build as
quickly as possible the 20
divisions which France has
agreed to contribute towards
Western European defence,
forces which will be used to re-
build the garrisons of the cities
of Alsace and Lorraine and to
occupy stations in Western
Germany.
These are strong words in a
country in which until a few
months ago the Communists
were almost a dominating in-
fluence. And even workers’
journals such as “Franc-Tireur,”
which calls the Government’s
plan “militarily useless” because
of the shortage of French equip-
ment and cadres, demanded to
be told why the Communists,
while abusing M. Pleven for
“militarism” and “an aggressive
policy” in increasing the period
of conscription, have found
nothing to complain of in the
fact that the two years’ service
which is the rule in the Red
Army has been increased to five
years for specialists.
Canada’s Great Plan
Contemporary with M.
Pleven’s statement, followed by
the rounding-up and deporta-
tion of a few loads of dangerous
foreign Communists, tame the
announcement of Canada’s
plans.
While Australia has been
struggling to get together a
battalion to fight in Korea, the
Canadian Government has had
such success with its recruiting—
without having to resort to the
revealing expedient of raising
Army pay—that it is now able to
say that it has 15,000 men to
send to Korea, and these have
been obtained without noise or
fuss, muddle or shallow boasting.
The reason for the two differing
results of recruiting in the two
greatest white Dominions would
be evident to anybody who h^s
talked with Mr. Brooke Claxton,
the Canadian Defence Minister.
Canada’s Korean plan will give
the Dominion more men in the
field than all the other parts of
the British Commonwealth put
together, the United Kingdom
included.
The reorganisation of the
Canadian defence expenditure in
general for the year also shows a
reality which makes Mr.
Fadden’s proposed £120,000,000
seem trivial.
The Canadian regular Budget
provided for about $550,000,000.
To this it is now proposed to
add $850,000,000, bringing the
total to $1,400,000,000, or about
£A560,000,000, nearly equal to
the whole Australian Budget for
all purposes.
The Canadian Government
secured a smashing vote of
support on a want-of-confidence
motion moved by the Progres-
sive Conservatives on the ground
of failure to provide effective
defence and to deal with infla-
tion.
The bulk of the money is to
be used to provide equipment
either for the Canadian forces or
for the Atlantic Pact countries in
urgent need. The Finance
Minister, Mr. Abbott, remarked
that where arms were required
by Atlantic Allies they would be
sent without delay and without
any question of payment for
them.
Amendments to the Defence
Act were submitted to enable
this to be done, and to empower
the Government to place
Canadian troops instantly on
active service in consequence of
any obligation to the U.N.O. or
to Atlantic Treaty countries.
All this is more practical than
traipsing round the world like
little Six Echo, as Mr.
Spender has been doing. The
Canadians are mysteriously- able
to conduct their affairs in times
of crisis in Canada, as Austra-
lians used to do until Dr. Evatt
established the League of
Wandering Canberra Boys which
is now one of our most expen-
sive Governmental luxuries. Mr.
Spender’s last speech in Europe
was designed to teach the Euro-
peans their duty. He explained
that there was “urgent need for
co-ordination in standard arma-
ments,” and “a permanent
European Army of sufficient
strength to offer an effective de-
terrent to aggression in the Euro-
pean zone, an army which could
be deployed as a permanent in-
strument of European security.”
It is a conception scarcely in
keeping with the conception of
U.N.0., and very different from
the immediate plans of the
European nations involved in
the Western pacts which envisage
temporary united defence to
meeting a grave and obvious
emergency.
Socialism’s “Effort”
The French and Canadian
statements were followed quickly
by a statement by Mr. Attlee on
the opening of the British Par-
liament on September 12. His
tone was much that of M.
Pleven. He said he did not be-
lieve war inevitable, but that in
view of the continual obstruc-
tion of Russia sacrifices must
now be made to prevent even
greater sacrifices in the future.
He had nothing new to say
about the plans already an-
nounced to extend the term of
conscription from 18 months to
two years, with an increase of
77,000 in the number of the
forces and a general all-round
increase in pay, which will bring
the level of defence expenditure,
even on the present standards,
to almost war-time dimensions
within three years. A supple-
mentary statement two days
later by Mr. Emanuel Shinwell,
the United Kingdom’s Defence
Minister, said that an extra
British division to be stationed
in Germany would be ready
within a year, together with two
strategic divisions which are to
be stationed in Britain.
Mr. Marshall Takes Over
This was made clear by Mr.
Ernest Bevin on his way to the
conference of British, French
and United States Foreign
Ministers, who met in New
York during the week. On the
eve of their meeting President
Truman suddenly replaced Mr.
Louis A. Johnson, his Defence
Minister, with General Marshall,
former Chief of the General
Staff, whose appointment called
for special legislation to en-
able him to take office, a move
which was received with general
relief. Ministers of Defence in
the United States need to be
strong men indeed or they fall
before the pens of rabble-rous-
ing commentators of the type of
Drew Pearson, who will find
Mr, Marshall a tougher nut to
crack than his predecessors.


A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
a
m
s:
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., VD.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M., F.R.A.CJS,
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager & Secretary: S. U. White.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh, Stewart.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
J. BULL CELEBRATES.
By a coincidence, J. Bull
(Korea extensions permitting)
will be having a rare old cele-
bration next year, when Aus-
tralia will be having a private
celebration of its own —the
Federation Jubilee.
Comparing the preparations at
this stage in both countries, the
Australian organisers (if any)
could learn a fair bit from the
British, though they’d still prob-
ably have a tough job on their
hands stirring the public
imagination as it has evidently
been stirred- by the Festival of
Britain.
What J.B.’s celebrating is all
about has been completely
stated in a brief message the
King sent to the Lord Mayor of
London: “The Queen and I
trust that every family in all
parts of the country will share
in this great Festival so that all
of us may join in showing that
Britain lives on, now as ever
taking her rightful place among
the nations of the world.”
Apparently the response to
that appeal has been as good as
unanimous. In all parts of
Britain preparations are well
advanced towards making the
Festival everything implied by
the “Times” special-article head-
ing “A Great National
Occasion,” on the lines of the
King’s appeal.
By a vast transformation of
demolition and building,
London’s South Bank is being
made the “centrepiece”; but,
states the “Times” article, “Its
exposition of what Britain has
done in the past, what Britain
is doing now and what Britain
plans for the future will be
elaborated in many other exhibi-
bitions throughout the land,
each a part of the Festival.”
All aspects of what Britain
can be said to stand for under
those headings will be featured
in the “centrepiece” or else-
where. Some indication of its
scope can be suggested by a few
details of one aspect alone, “the
contribution of British arts to the
Festival,” which will be the one
most “widely diffused through-
out the land”;
“At South Bank itself the
Royal Festival Hall [the one
great permanent building in the
transformation there ; a London
County Council concert hall]
will open what may be a long
career of usefulness in the
cultural life of London. Far
away in Scotland the Edinburgh
Music Festival will enter its third
year of mounting success
enriched with pride in having
given to other cities a lead that
is now fortified by the festival
spirit of 1951. Stratford-on-
Avon, Malvern, Canterbury,
Aldeburgh and other places in
England will again hold their
annual festivals in association
with the Arts Council of Great
Britain, each acting in this
special year as a part of the
Festival of Britain.
“New centres for special
festivals in 1951 will be at York,
Salisbury, Norwich, Liverpool,
Bournemouth and Southampton
in England ; at Inverness, Perth,
Dumfries and Aberdeen in
Scotland; and at St. David’s in
Wales. In Wales also the inter-
national Eisteddfod at Llangollen
and the national Eisteddfod at
Llanwrst will be accounted part
of the Festival of Britain.
“In all this wide field of proud
endeavor the Festival of Britain
tABORI
> T °*IIS
s free
Vaw
'EAIIH
Jim?
—Baltimore (U.S.A.) “Sun.”
“SO FAR, WINNIE, SO GOOD!”
organisation will have no more
than a guiding hand, helping
local effort where help is sought
and so co-ordinating local effort
that in its entirety it becomes
truly national. It is in this
spirit that every town and
village throughout the country
has been invited to take some
part in the Festival of Britain.
It is a simple invitation to each
community within our land to
look its best and to do so
proudly. Many villages in
England do that already; they
will be the first to do it better
still in 1951.
“The projects of large cities
and towns beyond London and
the South Bank are no less im-
portant than those of rural com-
munities in making the Festival
really national. It should be
possible for the stranger within
our gates during 1951 to know
from the daily life of any town
that the Festival of Britain is in
being.”
As well as all that, the four
principal cities of Leeds,
Manchester, Birmingham and
Nottingham will be visited by a
travelling exhibition something
like South Bank in miniature,
and a similar travelling exhibi-
tion, seaborne on the aircraft-
carrier Campania, will visit lead-
ing coastal places; setting out
from Southampton for Dundee,
Newcastle - upon - Tyne, Hull,
Plymouth, Bristol, Cardiff, Bel-
fast, Llandudno and Greenoch.
The places these two travelling
exhibitions will visit will, in
addition, “make their own local
and characteristic contributions”
to the general Festival of
Britain:
“Belfast, for example, will
have an exhibition of industry
and agriculture, and Bristol will
hold exhibitions demonstrating
its industries and manufactures ;
both cities will also arrange con-
certs and dramatic and operatic
productions. Many Festival cele-
brations will be associated with
annual events in town and
country, like the Shrewsbury
flower-show and the Southend
carnival. Coventry, most widely
remembered of the blitzed cities
of England, will link its vast
programme of city reconstruc-
tion with the Festival celebra-
tions, and many other, industrial
towns will mark the Festival
Year by planting avenues of
trees or improving their parks,
playing-fields and open spaces.”
In some measure, the Festival
of Britain commemorates the
Great Exhibition of 1851, with
the prospect of being much
more widely spread, and, as the
“Times” survey anticipates, “be-
tokening the readiness of the
people to rise to a great
occasion.” And, for all the
doubts and pessimism about
Britain’s near future that are
still freely aired in the British
Press, there seem to be some
solid grounds for J. Bull’s re-
garding the Festival Year as a
great turning-point. Thus, the
“Daily Express” is now able to
comment. •
“Today, one-half of the
world’s international trade and
commerce is carried on in ster-
ling.
“That is a magnificent
achievement for which the hard-
working people of Britain de-
serve full credit. Nor should
there be any grudging of praise
to the Government for its share
in the triumph.
“Before the war nearly three-
quarters of the world’s trade
was conducted in £s sterling.
Now a big proportion of this
trade has been restored.
“It is a complete vindication
of those who have never faltered
in their faith that in the £, in
the sterling bloc, in the com-
mercial power of Britain, and in
the British Empire lay the hope
of swift recovery,
“The £ has, once again, re-
sumed its natural place as the
first commercial currency in the
world.”
London “News Chronicle,”
apparently not so impressed by
the Government’s part in the
triumph, quotes American John
Knox Jessup, chairman of the
influential “Fortune” magazine
and a very highly regarded
authority in U.S. business
quarters, as stating:
“The comeback of Britain
f ro m here on will not be a
triumph for Socialism, but for
British private business, which
alone can bring it off.
“The Socialists, who know
they are licked, are no longer
obstructing the British business-
man’s recapture of a large part
(not all) of his former social
power.
“That is the important fact
about Britain in 1950. The
original capitalist country is re-
discovering capitalism.”
London “Daily Mail” has also
quoted Jessup as stating that in
two or three years Britain will
have “gained complete econ-
omic independence, despite the
Socialists.”
To which can be appended a
further “Daily Express” com-
rnent: —•
“If Britain’s circumstances are
still straitened, still the country
can reflect with solid pride on its
own deeds. And with solid con-
fidence in its own ability to sur-
mount the worst that can
happen in a world where com-
petition must grow steadily
fiercer. This is a grand, tough
old country—and a modern old
country, too!”
There is also to the point a
comment by the American pub-
lication “Life,” that the facts re-
veal that “British Socialism is a
dead duck,” and that “British
capitalism, which was widely
thought to have expired some
years ago, is very much alive
and is kicking Britain back to
vigor.”
On that finding “Life” further
commented: “The best friends
are strong friends, and the
British are the best and the
strongest that we Americans
have. Thank God for them, and
the best of luck to them! ’.’
More than Americans may
well wish them the same, with a
special emphasis for next year’s
Festival of Britain, though,
going by a recent “Times” re-
port, the main trouble will be to
pack ’em in:
“The British Travel and Holi-
days Association has made a
cautious estimate that, at the
least, 700,000 foreign visitors
(100,000 more than this year)
will come to Britain in the
Festival Year. Their arrival in
London, coinciding with the in-
flux of people from the pro-
vinces, may mean that at the
height of the summer season
there will be as many as 100,000
people requiring lodgings each
night. To meet this need there
are in the hotels of London,
both large and small, 33,228
bedrooms.”
U.S. Curbs Corns.
‘ More and more (reports
“New York Times”) the U.S, is
moving to restrict the activities
of American Communists on the
ground that they are, in effect,
agents of a foreign Power.
There is, it states, increasingly
vigilant surveillance over known
party members. Communists
cannot hold a job in the Federal
Government. Eleven members
of their National Board are
under conviction for conspiracy.
Congress is determined to curb
the whole outfit.
The American Communist
party lately suffered a new and
severe blow in the courts, when
the U.S. Court of Appeals,
second only to the Supreme
Court in the Federal judicial
system, upheld the conviction of
the 11 party leaders. This deci-
sion—a unanimous one —was
on an appeal on behalf of the
Com. leaders, it being argued for
them that the conviction violated
the freedom-of-speech guaran-
tee in the American Constitu*
tion.
“The best-known statement of
the conditions Under which free
speech may be abridged,” said
“New York Times,” “is Justice
Oliver Wendell Holmes’s ‘clear
and present danger’ doctrine.
Justice Holmes said; ‘The ques-
tion in every case is whether the
words used are used in such cir-
cumstances and are of such a
nature as to create clear and pre-
sent danger that they will bring
about the substantive evils that
Congress has the right to pre-
vent.’
“Judge Hand [in the recent
case] wrote: ‘The question be-
fore u 5.... is how long the
Government, having discovered
such a conspiracy, must wait


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOX $
OSUIWJ?
-ju worn a j
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURER*
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDER*
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS Z Z PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•IACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Rupture
Sufferers—try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
FREE
Call or send stamp for
FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and U days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
'Wests continue to prove that
here is an exceptional tractor
NUFFIELD UNIVERSAL M 4
with pneumatic tyres (14x30 rear, 7.50x18
front) trailing “Shearer” 12 twin disc plough
at 3i m.p.h. during Field Day at Hawkesbury
Agricultural College {N.S.IF .). JFidth of cut
6ft., furrows 6in, deep, bin. wide. Plough is
equipped with pneumatic tyres, she 600x16
{nearside and off-back ); 7.50x18 {off-front).
NUFFIELD
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
PRACTICAL: Operates all widely used trailed and
fixed implements. Readily convertible from 4-wheel
to 3-wheel (and vice versa) on the farm.
POWERFUL: 6-way power, from 38 H.P. engine and
new hydraulic power unit, for all needs in and around
the farm.
RELIABLE: Proved under all kinds of operational
conditions throughout Australia . . • the tractor built
and backed by a name you can trust!
FULL DETAILS AND SPECIFICATIONS
AVAILABLE FROM STATE DISTRIBUTORS
NUFFIELD UNIVERSAL M 3
at Hawkesbury College Field Day.
pulling double-arm r . rabbit rippftr
ripping depth of 24in. Note
retractible strakes on wheels for
extra traction. (Optional equipment.)
mm
S;
' '> ' ' ■ * -S. *„J!
N.S.W.: PETER LLOYD LTD.. 2(3-217 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY, ’Phone MA 7745. VICTORIA AND SOUTHERN
RIVERINA: KELLOW FALKINER PTY. LTD., 204-218 Russell
Street. MELBOURNE, C.l. 'Phone JM 1555. QUEENSLAND . „ x
AND N.S.W. NORTHERN RIVERS: FLINDERS MOTORS PTY. LTD., Evers Building, 457 Adelaide Street.
BRISBANE. ’Phone B 2420. And at I Railway Street, TOOWOOMBA. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: KINGSWAY
LIMITED, 118-120 Franklin Street, ADELAIDE. ’Phone Central 4870. WESTERN AUSTRALIA;
PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD., 924-728 Hay Street, PERTH (Temporary premises). TASMANIA:
METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD., 34-38 Argyie Street, HOBART. ’Phone 4041.
sdf
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., VICTORIA PARK, ZETLAND, NEW SOUTH WALES
The jury found that the
conspirators will strike as soon
as success seems possible, and
obviously no one in his senses
would strike sooner. Mean-
while they claim the constitu-
tional privilege [of freedom of
speech] The defendants were
acting in close concert with the
[world Communist] movement
We do not understand how
one could ask for a more prob-
able danger, unless we must
wait until the actual eve of hos-
tilities We hold that it is a
danger “dear and present.””’
Schuman Details.
The half-dozen Parliaments
still have to ratify the treaty,
but otherwise the Paris confer-
ence on the Schuman Plan has
completed the working details.
The chief of these (drawn from
London “Times” reports) are:
The “high authority” in con-
trol will have from six to nine
members. Their essentially non-
representative character is
shown by the fact that the
accession of a new member-
nation to the plan will not nec-
essarily involve an increase in
the membership of the high
authority, which will act by in-
struction, recommendation and
decision ; only the last will be
binding.
The committee of Ministers
will approve or disapprove the
high authority’s work, and the
common assembly will co-oper-
ate and consult with the high
authority to ensure that its de-
cisions are fully informed, A
vote of censure will entail the
high authority’s resignation. The
Ministers will be able in certain
cases to make recommendations
binding on the high authority ;
these will be defined when all
the technical issues are settled.
There will be a court of
justice entrusted with the obser-
vance of the treaty from which
the coal-and-steel pool derives
its existence, and with preser-
ving a balance between the
various organs it comprises. Its
powers will not constitute any
limitation of those of the high
authority.
In the field of commercial
policy the fundamental aim is
the creation of a single market,
in which all tariff barriers and
0
fjfyPOSjrp
sdf
$
4
#■
>p
—Los Angeles ( U.S.A .) "Times."
LINKS FOR A UNITED EUROPE.
quantitative restrictions will be
eliminated at one step. Com-
mercial relations between mem-
bers of the coal-and-steel pool
and other countries with which
they may have bilateral agree-
ments will be regulated by a
special procedure which has
been worked out in detail.
The non-Protectionist charac-
ter of the Schuman Plan has
been restated, to ensure that coal
and steel may be available to all
users on the most favorable
terms. The working party con-
cerned with these aspects of the
plan did not consider that there
was any need to establish uni-
form tariffs. But some degree of
harmonisation is inevitable. This
will result from the normal
working of the pool, but to pre-
vent any attempt on the part of
members to take advantage of
differing rates it has been de-
cided to fix maximum and mini-
mum tariffs and to define the
extent to which quantitative re-
strictions may be applied to
non-members when a single
market had been created.
The high authority will have
at its disposal an equalisation
fund which will serve to
compensate for the disparity
between existing cost-price differ-
ences. The need for this will
gradually be reduced as condi-
tions bring about price uni-
formity. In this process some
firms will be found non-com-
petitive, and a re-equipment
fund will be provided to enable
them to modernise their plant.
Manpower will also be pro-
tected from hardships which
may result from the creation of
a single market.
The high authority will con-
trol investment and research by
issuing directives on modernisa-
tion, increasing productive
capacity and so on. It will re-
ceive information about pro-
grammes in hand, and may assist
these financially.
“Manchester Guar d i a n,”
giving as its finding on the
Council of Europe that “The
council, it seems, has been born
before its time. It does not
naturally fit in anywhere,” adds
that the British “are as sus-
picious of its possibilities as they
are of the Schuman Plan, but
unlike the latter it does not even
look practical.” Then, on the
Schuman Plan itself, it goes on
to comment:
“The Schuman Plan is, in
fact, becoming the pilot scheme
for European unity. It joins the
French and German wish for
security against the East and be-
tween each other with the great-
est available economic incentives
to agreement. If it fails, so
must European union. On the
other hand, if it succeeds—in
whole or, as is more likely, in
part—it will exclude Britain in
spite of the general fear of Ger-
many. Whatever the legitimate
object ionsofmen like MSpaak
who think European federation
unthinkable without Britain, the
spadework of unity is already
Zy b P emg carried out ou toe assump-
tion that, however dangerous
Germany is, the continued divi-
sion of Europe would be worse.”
Dragnet Digest.
We Recruit in Britain.— Australia s
recruiting effort in Britain to raise
2500 men had drawn (by “Times
report) 2000 inquiries before it was
officially opened. Preference goes to
single men, but married men with
accommodation-sponsors here will do,
and, in fact, 60 per cent, of the
inquiries came from such married
men. Most remarkable note in the
“Times” report, perhaps, is the rea-
son advanced by Australian organiser
Major A. L. Thomas, that “the
population of Australia is so small
that it was necessary to seek men for
the army abroad” —a whole 2500 of
them!
* * * *
Go-Whoa! — From an article on
Burma by a woman staff correspon-
dent of N. Y. “Herald Tribune,” the
sort of summing-up that’s a staple
of North’s Plutarch, though some-
what rare in current journalism:
“The [Burmese] Government’s sup-
port of the Security Council resolu-
tion calling for United Nations aid
to South Korea aroused much less
opposition than had been expected—
possibly because the Government
announced at the same time that it
was not abandoning its traditional
policy of neutrality.”
* * * *
False-teeth Security. London
“Daily Mail,” a little nettled: “We
British in three years have spent
£958,000,000 on the Health Service,
and only £603,000,000 on the Royal
Air Force. This is not a question
of guns or butter, but of False Teeth
in a Paradise.”
* * * *
Not Against Communism. —Con-
tending that “Even in a metaphorical
sense, it is highly inaccurate and
misleading to say that we are at
war with Communism,” London
“Observer” argues that “The danger
to world peace, against which we
have to guard, is not Communism as
such, but expansionist Russian Im-
perialism, which seeks to use the
idea of Communism as one of its
tools.” As to which it must be said
to be doing moderately well in Britain
itself, from Dr. Fuchs to the Ports-
mouth sabotage explosion.
* * * *
Fish and Furs. —“New York
Times” looks into U.S. trade with
Russia: “A list of important Russian
exports to the United States reads
almost like a parody of what a
Communist thinks a capitalist con-
sumes. More than 70 per cent, of
the $42,000,000 in Soviet products
bought by the U.S. last year con-
sisted of sables and ermines and
caviare and crabflake and other luxury
furs and table delicacies.” Still, per-
haps by way of ballast, there was
also $7 million worth of manganese,
which is used to make certain steels.
* * * *
J. Bull’s Rearmament. London
“Economist,” on the latest U.S.-British
rearmament announcements: “For all
practical purposes it is true to say
that the British defence effort, which
ever since the end of the war has
been the highest, relative to the
national resources, of any of the free
nations, will stand comparison, as
measured by expenditure, even with
the newly-proposed scale of American
preparations.”
* * *
Air-power Fallacy. Editorially
viewing Korea, N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” concludes that it has not
only exposed the limitations of an
“atomic strategy” but is forcing
rather drastic revision of many con-
cepts of “air power” which have ruled
in popular and even in service
opinion since 1945: “The tendency
to assume that air power—especially
in the orthodox form of independent
air power operating primarily through
strategic bombing—is the one decisive
factor in modern war has met a rude
shock in the Korean fighting The
North Koreans, though all but devoid
of aviation of their own, have neither
been stopped nor turned back by
the air. It is still the man on the
ground who has had to take the
brunt of the struggle.” What would
have happened without that single
superiority is, of course, quite another
thing.
* * * *
Israel and Britain. —L. S. Amery,
in one of two London “Times”
articles giving his personal impres-
sions on a recent revisiting of the
Middle East: “I found among lead-
ing men in Israel everywhere a sincere
recognition of the fact that, but for
Britain, there never would have been
any Israel, and a desire to get back
to those relations of mutual co-opera-
tion in promoting the welfare of the
whole Middle East which underlay
the imaginative statesmanship of men
like Lord Balfour, Mr. Lloyd George,
Lord Milner and General Smuts. Even
in the fighting services, where the
feeling that Mr. Bevin’s policy loaded
all the dice against them in 1948
might be expected to be most bitter,
the memories of old comradeship in
the war and a genuine admiration for
our methods make for a real eager-
ness to renew close relations. Nothing
in this sphere would be more warmly
welcomed in Israel than the offer
of a few places at our three Staff
Colleges and other service technical
establishments.”


NOW! Dental Science Shows that
Brushing Teeth Right Afterdating with
COLGATE
DENTAL CREAM
STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Better Than Any Other Way
of Preventing Tooth Decay According to Reports
in Authoritative Dental Literature!
EVEN MORE IMPORTANT,
THERE WERE NO NEW CAVI-
TIES WHATEVER for more
than 1 out of 3 who used Colgate
Dental Cream correctly! Not even
one new cavity in two full years!
No other dentifrice has proof of
such results! No dentifrice can
stop all tooth decay, or help
cavities already started. But the
Colgate way is the most effective
way yet known to help your
dentist prevent decay!
2 YEARS’ RESEARCH AT 5
AMERICAN UNIVERSITIES
—case histories of hundreds of
people who used Colgate Dental
Cream right after eating—shows
the Colgate way stops tooth decay
best! Better than any other home
method of oral hygiene known!
Yes, both clinical and X-ray
examinations showed the Colgate
way stopped more decay for
more people—than ever before
reported in all dentifrice history!
t/t AINO ‘3ZIS AWOMO33 AHWV3 |Aauoui jnoA jo* ojoiu *O9
ALWAYS USE
COLGATE'S TO CLEAN
YOUR BREATH WHILE?
k YOU CLEAN VOUR I
f TEETH-AND HELP
| STOP TOOTH DECAY;
ftesmm
mr
sd
fsd
No Other Toothpocte or Powder
AMMONIATED OR NOT
Offers Proof of Such Results!
D4/160
ARTS'
Circular Charts for all types
of Recording Instruments
lor any class ot Machinery
or Equipmant
METER CHARTS a Specialty
JAC mm 0 7 SlTuVAN^lL
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
| Matchless performance! |
That's why more tons arehauled and
more people ride—the world over-on
Goodyear Tyres than on any other make!
A right tyre for each job!
Here are the famous super-stamina Good-
year work tyres each one designed for the
best performance on a particular job.
HI-MILER
ALL-WEATHER
HI-MILER
AIRWHEEL
The actual over-the-road performance records
of truck and bus operators# the world over,
prove that Goodyear Truck and Bus Tyres are
the world's finest. They stand up better on
the hardest jobs give longest tyre life-
lowest cost per mile. Each Goodyear Hi-Miler
Truck and Bus Tyre is built from finest natural
rubber and tough, heat-resisting Rayon cord
—to give maximum performance. Get the
world's finest tyres Goodyear Hi-Milers
from your Goodyear Dealer.
good/year
TRUCK & BUS TYRES ~,
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. KUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Sydney chess champion, C. J. S.
Purdy, believes that more Australian
women should play chess.”
“Four pages of the will dealt with
personal gifts to over a hundred
friends and relatives.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
It was full of Santa Clauses.
4* *b »b
“The average woman awakens in
the morning with a lack of beauty.”
— Women’s paper.
But she soon makes up for it.
“Venus de Milo, regarded tradi-
tionally as the world’s most perfect
woman, was getting younger every
day.”— “New Idea.”
In this respect, at least, she is
not unique.
❖
“The State education system pro-
duces thousands of quiz-kids, but
fails to produce educated citizens.”
—Former schoolteacher, now Queens-
land M.L.A., J. C. A. Pizzey.
As voters they have too in-
formal an outlook.
•b *b *b
“Two Broadway identities ate con-
fronted with the problem of how
much to charge for advertising on a
man’s stomach.” — Sydney “Sun”
Couldn’t they settle on a sum
in round figures?
“Tassoula Petrakageorgi, beautiful
221-year-old Cretan society girl who
was kidnapped and married by Coctas
Kefalochianis, has been taken to a
secret hiding-place.”— Sydney “Sun.”
To be rejuvenated?
•b 4 1 *b
“Prisoners at Chicago County Jail
have access to narcotics, liquor and
private rooms they can share with
women.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
Apparently they are not isola-
tionists.
“Why do we talk in our sleep?”
—Sydney “Sunday Herald.”
Because we’re not awake to
the consequences.
Talking of Chess.
Just why should women stick to
knitting
With row on row of plain and
purl
Or spend their days in useless
flitting,
Caught up in all the social
whirl ?
For wrestling with the cost of
living
And problems that a home
entails
Should put them in the form for
giving
A trouncing to chess-loving
males.
And sometimes, when I’m idly
dreaming,
I picture ladies working late
At textbooks on the subject,
scheming
How best they can achieve a
mate.
Yet, though he gets the ladies
playing
The ancient game, one thing
may wreck
Our champion’s hopes — there’s
no gainsaying
That few will keep their
tongues in check.
BERT.
The Geniuses.
“A correspondent on Formosa,
‘stronghold’ of Nationalist China,
reports that the Communists’ secret
weapon for its invasion is a huge fleet
of junks made unsinkable with bags
of mud. Their army is also being
given anti-seasickness training.”
General Chou En Gum, Chief
of Amphibious Operations of
the Red Chow Army, was de-
lighted.
His crack 28415 t Mobile
Army—it was most likely to
crack if the foe was having
boiled rice and the wind was
blowing towards the invaders,
and when they did crack they
became very mobile were
doing wonderfully well in their
“Looks as if it got into the lucerne-patch .”
preparations for the invasion of
Formosa.
To overcome the inherent
celestial weakness whenever
water was also mobile, the
troops had first been subjected
to the ordeal of having salt-
water sprayed in their faces by
atomisers while listening to
records of such sea-chanties as
“Blow the Man Down” and
“Whisky For My Johnnie.”
They bore up to this so bril-
liantly that not one man had had
to rush to the side of the
imaginary ship even after half
an hour of it.
The next step in the anti-sea-
sickness training was much more
severe. This consisted of look-
ing at a specially imported
sailor, Ivan Scupperov—a Red
Chow, of course —while he per-
formed a sailor’s balalaikapipe
and another man walked past
them swinging a bucket con-
taining bilge-water and diesel-
oil. Again not a man had been
seasick, and General Chou En
Gum had thereupon proclaimed
that their magnificent behavior
under such trying conditions
would shorten the invasion date
by at least six months.
The third stage of their
marine training was a terrible
ordeal. At the same time as
they were being swung slightly
from side to side in their
barrack hammocks to get used
to the rolling of a ship at sea
they were forced to look at a
painting on the wall depicting
an angry sea. That only 67 p.c.
of the troops had suffered from
severe mal-de-mer afforded un-
deniable proof how the early
training had toughened them
up. After 14 days of this the
percentage of sufferers had
dropped sensationally to 52 p.c.,
which led the deputy C.A.0.,
General Un Hung Lia, ecstati-
cally to predict that Communist
China would soon be the world’s
leading maritime and naval
nation.
In the final stages of prepara-
tion the troops were taken for a
row on a lake, and as the boat
was rocked slowly from side to
side a man holding a greasy
pork chop walked past each
Red Chow.
The c.-in-c. later described as
‘‘miraculous” the resulting low
incidence of seasickness —only
37 p.c. And he predicted that
the army, even if it had to ride
out half a dozen typhoons on
the way across, would step
-ashore fighting-fit.
It was the brilliant inventive
genius of Colonel-Admiral Sum
Kow Sing—who freely ack-
nowledged that he received his
greatest inspiration from the
wonderful work of Professor
Rytoff Iznutski, celebrated as
the inventor of the Soviet’s one
and only scientific contribution
to the Allied war effort, false
teeth for cows —which removed
the final hazard from the pro-
jected invasion. This was his
famous unsinkable junk.
His idea, like all those which
have changed the military his-
tory of the world, was simplicity
itself. It was to fill the sides
and bottom of ordinary small
wooden junks with mud. He
calculated that a 12in. naval
shell, which would arrive slant-
ing, even if it penetrated the
protecting timber of the side
walls, would explode harmlessly,
because the soft mud lining the
junk would absorb the pieces,
resulting only in making the
vessel slightly untidy due to the
displaced mud, which could then
easily be pushed back into the
hole, making it almost self-seal-
ing and the boat unsinkable.
Lesser missiles like aerial tor-
pedoes, rockets, etc., which,
coming straight down into the
bottom of the boat, would plop
into the mud, which, seeping
into the nose, would nullify all
effect by putting the fuse out.
The vast quantity of mud would
allow the junks only 2in. of free-
board, the Colonel-Admiral cal-
culating brilliantly that this
would allow a good 4-in. safety-
margin in a 180-m.p.h. typhoon.
Sum Kow Sing’s wizardry lay
in the special aerated mud he
had invented. By pumping air
into ordinary mud it rendered
a junk lined with it very buoy-
ant. In fact, in his early ex-
periments he had put too much
air in and one junk became air-
borne and had had to be shot
down. He claimed also that it
was the world’s cheapest inven-
tion ; mud and air costing
nothing. So that the mud
wouldn’t bake hard under strong
sun, troops in each junk were
issued with watering-cans—this
was in addition to routine
equipment such as pet goldfish,
crackers for dispersing evil
spirits and mah-jongg sets.
With his now-seasick-proof
army and his unsinkable junks,
General Chou En Gum ordered
a trial sortie, the invading army
to go 200 yards out to sea and
back, as a solid work-out for
the 100-mile real invasion.
The fleet of junks had got
only 50 yards out, however,
when they all turned and headed
back for shore with all the
troops hanging over the sides
pea-green around the gills.
An angry “Whaffor?” brought
Brigadier-Bosun Tin Pan Croon,
in charge of the “invasion”
force, to the C.A.O. with his
explanation.
“Welly clock luck, Comlade-
Genelal,” he said. “Hoops
only used to lolling motion of
boats side to side. Sea we
stluck pitch and toss, by cli!”
Bo.


m. 3
/
oimy
m
-NO MM
SMOkmm
TRADE'
MARK
CHAMPION
WRIDS FAm/t/Tf
FACTORIES: FELTHAM, ENG,;
TOLEDO, U.S.A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
fsd
fsd
to:
OU-
It’s the same in Pitt Street
as in Piccadilly . . .
all eyes follow the
SHEERLINE
tp[
VP
m
Even in the heart of London’s fashionable
West End—side by side with the world’s most famous cars the Austin
“Sheerline” is outstanding A 4-litre, 6-cylinder, 125 h.p.
overhead valve engine; independent front suspension; steering column
gear control; hypoid rear axle; sound insulated body; Dunlopillo
cushions; leather upholstery; walnut veneer interior; concealed
reading lamps; built-in heating and windscreen demisting; power
jacking—those are just a few of the “Sheerline’s” luxury features—
features which, combined, mean sheer beauty, sheer luxury,
sheer quality in every detail.
More Frequent Shipments Mean Earlier Delivery
The Incomparable
I
h oj [rujfand
N.S.W. Distributors: LARKE, HOSKINS & CO. LTD., 207 William Street, Sydney. FABIII
AC 18.83
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
To the casual observer in almost
any random point of Sydney last
week it appeared that the plentiful
rain was pretty universally distributed.
Consequently it came as a pleasing
surprise to learn, per media of the daily
Press, on Saturday morning that
“Rosehill yesterday escaped the rain,
heavy at times, which fell on Sydney.”
Of course this astonishing intelligence
actually came as no surprise to regular
followers of racing, who have long
since realised that Sydney courses,
though widely dispersed, constitute
an arid belt wherein it never rains;
leastwise not before admission fees
have been collected.
Accepting the notion that the
course had missed out on the mois-
ture, it can only be suggested that
the authorities should have Rosehill
resurveyed forthwith. Times for all
events on Saturday suggested that the
horses had covered at least half-a-
furlong further than the advertised
distances.
In commenting on the Canterbury
Guineas a couple of weeks back this
page declared Karangi a more likely-
looking staying proposition than either
French Cavalier or Ragazza, who
beat him home in that race. Satur-
day’s Rosehill Guineas, over the 10-
furlongs journey, substantially sup-
ported that view. However, Karangi
was again beaten, this time by Care-
less, who started at 25 to 1 as a
consequence of too much importance
being attached to his poor showing
against older horses in the Chelms-
ford Stakes at Randwick. In that
race Karangi ran a goojl fourth, while
Careless finished last of the 11 run-
ners. However, the real Careless
form was that shown against others
of his own age when he won the
Hobartville Stakes prior to the
Chelmsford effort.
French Cavalier started a 'warm
favorite for the Rosehill Guineas,
but was fairly and squarely outstayed,
to finish a poorish third. Karangi
looked the winner when he moved up
smoothly to hit the front as they
entered the straight. It may haye
been a premature move. Careless
was restrained until they were well
into the straight; he came up then
to take the lead at the distance, and,
while Karangi hung on gamely,
Careless drew ahead to win by a
little more than a length.
Bred and owned by H. Longworth,
trained by F. Hood and ridden on
Saturday by T. Hill, Careless is a
bay colt by Midstream from the
imported French mare Grumeti.
Midstream has already produced one
A.J.C. Derby winner, albeit a sus-
pectedly flukish one, in Concerto,
and Careless may possibly give him
another; our opinion remains that
Midstream’s daughter True Course
is more likely to do so. Careless
certainly won well on Saturday, and
they can do no more than win, but
one could think much more highly
of his performance if one had greater
confidence than is at present entei-
tained in the ability of most of those
whom he beat. If Careless is a really
good ’un, then Karangi, too, can
still be respected. The remainder on
Saturday looked a fairly even bunch,
and it was the evenness of mediocrity.
In other events at Rosehill pointers
to spring prospects were not notice-
ably profuse. The powerful McCarten
stable, however, led in the winners
of the two principal handicaps.
Punters who follow leading riders and
stables rather than the form of their
horses were in a quandary when
trainer McCarten saddled up two of
the 11 runners in the Rosehill Handi-
cap (10f.), yet his No. 1 rider, N.
Sellwood, took the mount on Golden
Bird, who hailed from another stable.
Golden Bird started a solid favorite,
and finished fifth, a position he had
occupied pretty well all the way. The
finish was fought out by McCarten’s
pair, Great Trek and Saville Row,
Great Trek (C. Hillier) starting at
eights and scoring by a head. Saville
Row is a particularly consistent, but
not altogether lucky, animal; his last
nine starts have yielded two wins, a
third and jjix seconds.
Both McCarten’s winners hail from
abroad. Great Trek is a New Zea-
lander. His other winner was the
English importation Donegal (N.
Sellwood), who revived hopes of an
Epsom chance with a reasonably
stylish effort in the Theo Marks
Quality Handicap (7f.). After being
well out of his ground in the early
stages Donegal finished very fast to
down Sir Marcher and Freyberg by
margins of a neck and a half-length.
However, Donegal was carrying 101 b.
less than his Epsom impost of 9.2.
Really a more impressive effort was
that of the South Australian Pennali,
who came from last at the half-mile
to finish a handy fourth and was
carrying only 31b. less than the 8.6
he has in the Epsom.
* * * *
Punters who had been enjoying the
rosy dreams engendered by holding
vouchers for Comic Court-Peerless
Fox in the two Cups had their 09m-
placency rudely shattered at Fleming-
ton on Saturday when Comic Court
was beaten at weight-for-age in the
Craiglee Stakes and Peerless Fox, con-
testing the 12-furlongs September
Handicap, finished stone last and
returned to scale with one foreleg
severely cut about.
The prospect of another clash
between Comic Court and Chicquita
in the Craiglee Stakes was the main
attraction of the day, and the event
certainly didn’t It was a
cracking good race, and the result
was probably to the taste of the
majority of small punters more
likely to accept the offering of 7 to 2
against Chicquita than to lay the
bookmakers the same odds on Comic
Court. Comic Court, with Purtell
up, was beaten by the combination
of an outstandingly good mare plus
a superb bit of horsemanship from
W. Williamson. Beau Gem led them
along at a fair pace till they turned
for home. Comic Court meanwhile
running along quietly in second
place and Williamson, on Chicquita,
sticking like a shadow behind the
favorite. Williamson won the race
in the straight with a quick forward
movement which caught Purtell a
shade unawares and chopped Comic
Court off, using Saxony more or less
as the chopping-block. Comic Court
joined battle in royal style, and made
effort after effort, but the slight break
gained, where two such equally-
splendid gallopers were concerned,
proved conclusive, and the mare had
it by a short half-head on the post.
A protest entered on behalf of Saxony
against both winner and runner-up
actually had some slight justification,
but it was greeted with unrefined
laughter from the crowd and swiftly
dismissed.
The defeat of the hot favorite in
the Craiglee Stakes was by no means
unique in the afternoon’s proceedings.
Indeed, the only outright favorite who
did succeed was Regular Port (W.
Williamson) in the Northcote Handi-
cap (6f.). Regular Port made no
mistake about the job, winning by
four lengths from Awarua and
Garugal. .
With odds-on favorite Peerless Fox
something of a casualty, as men-
tioned, the September Handicap was
won well by that always-useful
middle-distance performer Clement
(R. Heather). Clement ran quite a
fair Caulfield Cup trial; he carried
9st., which is 61b. over his Cup
weight, and won gamely from Baldur
and Chievely.
©•• | • •
Three-year-olds were well catered
for with three events restricted to
that age. The Admiral’s Luck colt
Lucky Mascot (W. A. Smith) showed
a suggestion of stamina in winning
the 10-furlongs Burleigh Handicap.
Also for three-year-olds, the Exford
Handicap (6f.) was run in two divi-
sions, which went to Kinder Guide
(J. Purtell) and Lady Pherozshah (E.
Preston).
f ** * *
Over the past few weeks the A.J.C.
analyst’s retorts and test-tubes have
been near to exploding under the
sudden impact of about as many
“bombs” as they had unearthed in
their entire previous career. It is
really curious, and surely of some
significance, to note how these
alleged doping cases seem to blossom
forth in a mass outbreak after lengthy
intervals of almost complete silence.
Evidently there’s more than spring in
the air round this time of year.
Reported in little more than a fort-
night, one positive swab from Rand-
wick, one from Brisbane, one from
Murwillumbah (N.S.W.) and five
from two Saturdays’ racing at New-
castle. Nearly all these cases are
sub judice, as it were, at time of
writing, so comment is best restrained
for the nonce.
* is, * *
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances) :
Three- and Four-year-old; Panto-
mime, 1; Waterfront, 2; Mr.
Standby, 3. Parramatta Mixed: .
Auburn River, 1; Del Enus, 2;
Video, 3. Auburn Mixed: Canning
Downs, 1; Blandstream, 2; Dinanda,
3. September Handicap: Snowstream,
1; Sir Falcon, 2; Vagabond, 3. Hill
Stakes: San Domenico, 1; Crag Son,
2; Dickens, 3. Flying: Count
Aulone, 1; Pennali, 2; Cognac, 3.
Welter: Double Mint, 1; Salamanca,
2; Sir Marcher, 3.
* * * *
The M.C.C. team sailed last week
for Australia. That is to say, the
official team chosen by the selectors
—not any of the few dozen “vastly
superior” teams gratuitously supplied
by the customary horde of distin-
guished ex-players. If we are to
believe these “experts” the English
team is about the worst ever, and it
is a sheer waste of time sending it
out here. A less-prejudiced glance
shows that the selectors have done
precisely what Australian selectors
have done with success in the past
when Australian cricket has dwelt
overlong in the doldrums. They have
picked a backbone of solid, ex-
perienced veterans -and mixed
with them a good sprinkling of
inexperienced but promising young-
sters to be broken in and garner
experience. Of the 17 players, skipper
Fred Brown and with him Compton,
Bedser, Evans, Hollies, Hutton,
Mclntyre, Simpson, Washbrook and
Wright are in the 30-and-over class.
The ages of Bailey, Berry, Close,
Dewes, Parkhouse, Sheppard and
Warr range from 19 to 26.
* * * ♦
North Melbourne will play in a
V.F.L. “grand” final next Saturday for
the first time in its career as a
League team. It beat Geelong, 14.16-
12.11, before a record preliminary-
final crowd of 73,539 paying cus-
tomers on Saturday, after being down
20 points at half-time. Foote, the
N.M. captain, won the toss, and
astonished everybody by giving Gee-
long the first-quarter wind —it is
almost an axiom in Aussie rules to
kick with the wind in the first quarter,
because it might drop later on —and
Geelong had 7.3 to 1.0 up at the
change. In the next they spent them-
selves hanging on to the lead against
driving N.M. attacks, and, though 20
points ahead, were tired at half-time.
North began the third by cutting
holes in Geelong’s back line, and with
Foote, Robb, Marches! and Spencer
inspired, beat both the wind and
Geelong, and were only two points
behind at the final change. Geelong
rallied for the last quarter, and there
was a ding-dong game of fast, clever
and clean football, with the match
anybody’s until the last few minutes,
when North’s stamina prevailed and
a couple of quick goals gave them
victory. It is doubtful if M.C.G.
will hold the crowd who’ll want to see
North play Essendon next Saturday.
* * * *
“Pass-it”:
In the grand final at North Sydney
Oval on Saturday Manly won the
Rugby Union premiership—after a
lapse of seven years—by beating
Gordon, 21-15. Basing their judg-
ment on recent form, many thought
that Manly would have little trouble
in disposing of Gordon. When Manly
led 21-6 at half-time the Manly sup-
porters began to wonder by just how
many their team would win. What
they overlooked, however, was that,
in compiling those 21 points, Manly
had established superiority neither in
the forwards nor the backs; the tries
they scored were the results, not of
concerted team-efforts, but of indi-
vidual opportunism. Also, and very
important, Manly had had the assist-
ance of a stiff breeze.
The second half brought a swift
and unpleasant shock for the Manly
fans, as Gordon, winning the scrums
monotonously, proceeded to put
Manly thoroughly on the defensive.
Manly produced none of the dash it
had shown in the first half, and never
looked like scoring in the rest of the
match. Gordon very nearly pulled
the game out of the fire, and might
well have done so with a shade more
luck. They dropped passes at vital
stages, which is, of course, inexcus-
able, but they did have stiff luck with
their kicks at goal, two of which hit
the bar.
From a spectator’s angle the game
was excellent. The forwards ploughed
into their job vigorously, and generally
the play was well up to grand-hnai
standard. One weakness noted was
the tendency of both sides to indulge
in loose knocking-back of the ball in
lineouts. This proved particularly
dangerous, as both sets of
backs were defensively weak when
bustled. In fact, nearly all the tries
scored could he attributed to a failure
of the inside backs to steady the
play. There was virtually no wing-
threequarter play throughout the
match. None was expected from the
Gordon backs, who, to suit Trevor
Allan’s type of defence, always posi-
tion themselves well inside the oppo-
nents. More had been expected
from Manly, but their half was con-
stantly harassed by the Gordon
breakaways and had a bad day with
his handling.
Howbeit, the season is over, and
congratulations to Manly.
* * * *
Jack Read looks over the middle-
weights :
Not since the days of Darcy have
American authorities considered an
Australian boxer as a serious con-
tender for the world’s middleweight
title, but they are now of the opinion
that Dave Sands could win this title
if he could get a crack at it; in
America that represents a mighty big
“if.” New York and associated States
recognise Jake La Motta (nicknamed
“The Bronx Bull”) as world cham-
pion. Pennsylvania, however, claims
that “Sugar” Ray Robinson won the
title beyond dispute when he out-
pointed Frenchman Robert Villemain
over 15 rounds in Philadelphia re-
cently. Sands also outpointed Ville-
main in London, and American
critics deduce that Sands would beat
La Motta, since Villemain made La
Motta look a novice in a 10-rounder
not long back.
Sands has had a couple of scraps
in Sydney recently, and has given
every indication that he’s better than
ever. A few weeks back he tackled
Puerto Rican Henry Brimm. It was
barely a gym. work-out for Sands.
The police nearly intervened in the
first round, and Sands saved them
the trouble early in the second.
Then Sands defended his Australian
heavyweight title against Alf Gal-
lagher. This was a slightly better
work-out in that it went the full
distance. Sands scaled 11.11 to
Gallagher’s 12.12, and he gave the
bigger man the father of a hiding from
go to whoa. Gallagher’s only pugi-
listic virtue was the sheer gameness
which saw him still on his feet after
15 rounds of merciless pummelling.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
griader discs-^—recommended for shearing-shed work.
11
gnanß
40z., Boz,, 16(Sz., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees. Avail-
able for immediate delivery.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
_ £4O/12/6
mm
fds
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
BW 8631.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Another Problem.
“J.R.D.”: One effect of the
early 1950 wet weather is the
unprecedented demand for
sheep-drenches. The normally
“safe” areas of the eastern
States have been badly hit.
Many graziers, lacking drench-
ing experience, unable to account
for heavy sheep losses, fail to
realise that their sheep are as
wormy today as any on the
higher-rainfall properties.
Those far-out properties which
have started to drench are show-
ing results. But the abnormal
demand for drench has caught
manufacturers napping, parti-
cularly for ingredients which
have to be imported. Pheno-
thiazine, in spite of difficulties of
administering and cost, is now
generally recognised as the out-
standing sheep-drench. Unfor-
tunately, demand has exceeded
supply to such an extent that it
will take several months to catch
up in spite of additional
imports.
What can be substituted? Hie
answer is to conserve pheno-
thiazine for drenching young
sheep and use bluestone-
nicotine for the rest. If no
phenothiazine can - be got, use
bluestone-nicotine for everything
and drench every three weeks.
Lambs seem to be picking up
a heavy worm-infestation much
earlier than in the past, and in
some districts drenching has to
begin when they’re six weeks
old. Carbon - tetrachloride
(double strength) will check
barbers’-pole worms in adult
sheep, and may be used alter-
nately with b.-n. where the
sheep are showing the anaemic
paleness of skin associated with
bloodsucking worms.
In any case, when worm para-
sites get well established in a
flock it is beyond the power of
any drench to cure with one dose
or even two. A single dose will
reduce the worm population
according to the suitability of
the particular drench for the job
in hand. But within a few weeks
the remaining worms in the
sheep will be breeding again, and
their numbers will be swelled by
the fresh infestation picked up
from the pasture. Drenching
must be continued at regular
intervals until the worms within
the sheep have been reduced to
a safe minimum, and until con-
tinued dry weather has checked
the survival of worm eggs in the
pasture.
Rabbit-extermination.
“Beau Forte”: One of the
most effective rabbit clean-ups
I’ve seen was done with ferrets,
a pack of dogs and persistent
work.
The property (5000 acres with
a little bush) had netting
boundaries, with another netting
fence cutting it in half. It was
badly infested and contained
numerous hill burrows, long
underground water gashes in the
scoured-out gullies and a few
large sand-warrens on the flats.
The big water gashes were
hard to deal with —the large
cavities, no doubt, taking a lot
of filling with the fumigant, and
the cracks where the scoured-out
earth had subsided allowing it
to escape. The rabbits we missed
multiplied, and in a few months
the old burrows were opened up
to be fumigated again. It looked
like an endless job.
Then the owner decided to try
ferrets and dogs—which I
thought would be a complete
failure. He started two of us
at the bottom end of the
property with three ferrets and
three dogs each, with instruc-
tions to work on a face, ferret
every burrow no matter how
small or stale, and then fill in
every opening after ferret-
ing. (It was surprising the
number of rabbits we got from
those small, stale - looking
burrows which we never would
have bothered about but for his
instructions.) After we had been
going a few days he sent his
permanent man out with a pack
of dogs to scour the land over
which we had worked.
It took us four weeks to go
over the 5000 acres. We had
another week going over again
attending to burrows which had
been reopened, and from then
on the permanent man or the
owner, by going out from time
to time with dogs and ferrets
and filling in, gradually beat the
remnants of the pests.
The only places which gave any
trouble after we had finished
were the big sand-warrens and
a few of the more difficult water
gashes, but by dealing with them
as soon as they were opened-
up the property was cleared of
rabbits in a little more than two
years.
A Fence-erecler.
“F.W.”: Bischoff Bros., of
Warra, Darling Downs (Q.),
appear to have evolved the ideal
fencing-machine. Subsequent to
the war we soldier-settlers
thought ourselves in the van-
guard of a revolutionary fencing
epoch with our rotary power-
driven post-hole diggers—2oo
holes a day being a fair day’s
operation. However, Bischoff
Bros, have manufactured a post-
driver which eliminates all
holes.
The two-ton driver on a 4in.
drop pushes an ordinary fence-
post into the requisite immov-
able depth in one short greased
motion. No sharpening of the
post or preparation.
A lOin. strainer in this soil
calls .for two such nudges. Any
powered take-off tractor suffices
to tow the apparatus and supply
the necessary lift, although some
fine judgment in the gauging of
the drop is needed to preclude
the need for hauling the post up
again to the desired height.
Package-bees.
“Soc”: In the beekeeping
areas of the N.S.W. north-west
an astonishing number of
colonies, going concerns in
autumn, never see spring. This
is due, among other things, to
early cessation of brood-rearing,
insufficient stores left in the
hives, rigorous winters, old and
failing queens and rapid falling-
off of bee population at critical
times of the season.
Whatever the cause, most bee-
herders find anything up to a
score of hives that fail to
respond to a knock on the lids
in the spring check-up. There
are plenty of pests about —mice,
cockroaches, wax-moths —more
vigorous than the bees and ready
to dive on the unprotected pick-
ings. The beeman, on his check-
up, knocks off the bottom board
and lid, stacks them and sets
the super or two of good
combs on another hive (if there
are any strong enough at this
stage to take it without being
chilled off), then marks up the
loss of one more colony. The
solution is package-bees.
In the more northern parts of
U.S.A. entire apiaries were
allowed to die out in the “fall,”
to be replaced by package-bees
from the south in spring. Thus
there were no losses, no solid
3lt> Bl.OC£
“How much longer are you going to stay in the
bathroom ?”
stacks of expensive material
standing idle through the next
season because of insufficient
bees to use them.
Judging by the volume of
business done by the package-
bee men, apiarists of U.S.A.
look upon package-bees as their
insurance against loss. The idea
could be well adopted here.
There are many areas along the
warm, far-northern coastline of
N.S.W. and South Queensland
which would be admirably suited
for package-bee production.
Packages of 2lb. to 31b. (the
equivalent of a fair colony)
could be freighted out as early
as September to work the first
spring blooms of the table-
lands, thus ensuring a thriving,
populous colony ready to work
the choice-honey flows a little
later.
One or two visionary bee-
herders, with a far-reaching eye,
view the day when helicopters,
carrying entire apiaries on their
backs, will leave the warm
breeding-grounds of the coast-
line and head for further out.
Package-bees is in actuality the
same thing, economical in that
the apiaries are awaiting them
and air-liners are ready to take
them out.
Townsville Lucerne.
“Archaps”: Graziers in the
Charters Towers district believe
it is the only legume so far dis-
covered which will grow in the
poorer country of North Queens-
land, which is overrun with
spear- and kangaroo-grasses.
They are therefore anxious to
know the best means of planting
and propagating Townsville
lucerne, and the matter is to be
discussed when N.Q. cattlemen
meet in Cairns. The informa-
tion may be in the possession of
the C.5.1.R.0., which has been
experimenting with Townsville
lucerne for a long time.
Market for Sheep in U.S.A.
“C.S.”: Back from a tour of
America, A. E. Armstrong,
managing-director of Mahonga
(Rand) and Winderadeen (Col-
lector) Corriedale studs, is con-
vinced there is a strong market
for Australian Corriedales and
probably Romney Marsh ewes in
the sheep-breeding American
south-west, but says that Aus-
tralian breeders will have to
recognise that the American
lamb industry concentrates on
meat rather than on wool-meat,
and big-framed sheep are what
they want.
Armstrong’s chief impression
of American Corriedales was the
variation in conformation
standards, which ranged from
very big sheep in California to
very small in Kentucky and ad-
joining States. Generally, uni-
formity is non-existent, even in
individual flocks. The standard
of the fleeces is between 46’s and
60’s, and there is a very marked
shortness of staple in the wool.
However, wool is a secondary
consideration, the tendency being
to grow a sheep with a wool
value of about 25 p.c., the bal-
ance being mutton. This is
understandable in a country
where a lamb weighing about
50lb. dressed averages £AIO to
£AI4 in the market —which sug-
gests that Australian lamb prices,
though high by comparison with
past years, are cheap by Ameri-
can standards. The emphasis is
on meat all the time. Even in
Texas the Rambouillet Merino-
breeders concentrate on size.
Classing of flocks as we know it
is rare, and where classing is
done the sheep are classed for
size before anything else.
American sheep graze on
what Australians would call
marginal country. This is be-
cause any sort of productive
land there is far too pricy for
sheep-grazing. Except for some
minor fat-lamb raising on irri-
gation projects, most of the land
ranges from a sheep to three
acres to one to 30. Most of the
flocks are shepherded, the coun-
try is high and flocks winter on
the lowlands and spend spring
and summer on the mountains,
entailing journeys of up to 100
miles and accounting for much
dust in their wool. Flocks, too,
have to be shepherded against
attacks of wolves, coyotes and
other predatory animals.
A good market for stud
Corriedales exists in America,
especially for 14-year-old ewes
and probably for Romney ewes
of the same age. Six months ago
the export price of such a ewe
was about £4, now it is about
£l5, and this will probably rise,
since most of the sheepmen there
sell the whole lamb drop and
depend on purchases for replace-
ments.
But anyone sending Corrie-
dales to the U.S.A. must remem-
ber that size is the No. 1 require-
ment. Further, the sheep must
be open-faced. Ewes would need
to weigh 1501 b. and upward on
the hoof to command attention.
Planting Gum-trees.
“Kenwood”: “Farmer Bill’s”
notes on the subject (B.
30/8/’5O) are probably sound
enough for his district, but in
a country with such varying
conditions it is questionable to
lay down as a fixed rule that
holes for young plants be dug
18in. deep. In many districts
such a depth would mean almost
impervious clay, or even shale.
In the last 18 months I have
planted over 2000 eucalypts, and
in the present phenomenally wet
year a number have been
drowned in holes even 12in.
deep.
It is safer to specify holes to
the depth of the surface soil and
positively no more. The aver-
age depth of Australian surface-
soil is generally estimated at
about 9in.; cultivation to that
depth is ample for eucalypts,
and reduces to almost nothing
the risk of water-logging—the
present fantastic year of floods
excepted.
The deep-hole method in clay
soil is based on the idea that
the root penetration of the
eucalypt must be assisted by dig-
ging. Under natural conditions
eucalyptus seedlings manage to
germinate and survive without
benefit of sub-soil or even sur-
face digging. Generally speak-
ing, hard clay sub-soil is not the
menace to a eucalypt that stag-
nant water can be when it is
imprisoned in an 18in.-deep hole.
Hybrids far Dairies.
“Emel”: The zebu hybrid
(B. 21/6/’5O) having proved
tick-resistant, quick maturing,
meaty and a good forager, so
that it is ideal for northern Aus-
tralian conditions, perhaps some-
thing could be done to boost the
low Australian average of dairy
production by the introduction
of water-buffalo blood.
Dr. Bertha Van Hoosen, a
prominent American practi-
tioner, in her autobiography,
Petticoat Surgeon, records that
on her Asian tour in 1922 the
water-buffalo butter she had in
Shanghai, though white as lard,
had a very delicate taste.
She adds, “The milk of the


0/d friends
are ies/ friends!
' Mb
:
Z^k
"W 4
The name is_
(OGJlums
The luhiskij is_
MODERN
SANITATION
n
IN UNSEWERED
1 AREAS
THE HYGEIA DISSDLVENATOR
(Complete self-contained sanitary system)
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING
NO WATER SUPPLY
NECESSARY
f
ANY HANDYMAN CAN INSTAL IT
Sewage material is chemically transformed into a
sterile solution that runs away into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 22 years
Write for free illustrated pamphlet
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dissolvenators (QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; E. P. Mclnemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN; 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
'T/jenov/s" Worm R&rwfy
*
W* OVIS
tiMt'
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
sdf
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
dsf
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-8191
The Modern
Method
of marking
lambs & calves
ELASTRATOR
(REGD. TRADE MARK)
CASTRATOR & TAILER
with the ELASTRATOR RING
“ My"
Obtainable from Station Suppliers, Woolbrokers,
Chemists and Stores. A product of ELASTRATOR
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
“Production line” perfection
a
's^—'
A
S 3
n
x
/
q:
• ..it lasts years longer
if the cabinet is
STEEL SHEET
sd
C.R.M. DIVISION OF LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED-GENERAL
SALES AGENTS. SYDNEY: 33 Macquarie Place. MELBOURNE;
70-84 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne. ADELAIDE: 13
Grenfell Street. BRISBANE: 307-311 Queen Street. FREMANTLE:
Corner of Short and Pakenham Streets. WELLINGTON, N.Z.:
John Lysaght's Bristol Works Limited.
CKI-50
water-buffalo is one of the
richest, containing 11 per cent,
fat. Not unlike the milk of our
Holstein breed, it has very little
coloring matter, yet the per-
centage of fat is three times that
of the milk from Guernseys.”
On that a water-buffalo cross
should be worth a trial.
Y ellow-grass.
“Bill C.”; Also known as
“Burdekin couch,” it is spread-
ing southward in Queensland.
Stock cannot live on it, and it
works into dairying pastures and
destroys them.
It is a grass of couch type,
with the familiar running stems
above and below ground, and
with yellowish-green leaves Bin.
long. It forms a dense carpet up
to 2ft. thick, and is a pest of
canefields as well as grazing
lands. Yellow-grass spreads at
a great pace by runners and
seed, largely because stock will
not eat it. On the C.Q. coast it
makes steady growth at all
periods except during the dry,
early summer months.
Since this grass will certainly
spread to the S.Q. coast in time,
dairy-farmers should be on the
lookout for it. In all countries
where it is established it is re-
garded as useless for fodder and
a danger to improved pastures.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sundowner”: Every winter
milking-machines should be
given a thorough overhaul.
Check the vacuum-pump ; if this
is in good order test for air-leaks,
then examine pulsators, renew
cracked rubbers and sealing-rings
and clean or replace relief valves
as required.
“C.A.A.”: When preparing
beds for a spring crop of carrots
choose deep friable soil. The
crop will benefit by a surface
dressing of super., loz. per yard
each row before sowing, and a
similar quantity in bands 2in.
away from each side of the'row
and 2in. under the surface after
sowing. Sandy soils will respond
to a mixture of four parts of
super, and one of potash.
“W. Court”: Poison-peach
and Noogoora-burr have been
greatly spread by recent Queens-
land floods. The peach is always
toxic to stock, but the burr is
more dangerous as a smotherer
of well-grazed pastures. How-
ever, it is very deadly when in
the three-leaf stage, and the cow
that gets a few mouthfuls is
usually dead before it is realised
she is sick,
“Wilco”: A better way than
most of improving the edge of
safety-razor blades is to rub
them up and down on the out-
side of an old aluminium sauce-
pan. A little grease or moisture
will help, but after a few rub-
bings tiny fragments of alu-
minium clinging to the steel act
as an abrasive.
“Bill C.”: Constant “blow-
outs” or tyre punctures can often
be traced to worn rims. Rims
wear thin with use, become
rusty, develop cracks and sharp
edges, and pinch or slit the tubes.
Painting helps preserve them,
but wear is often severe in heavy-
rainfall districts. Much rusting
may be avoided by keeping them
out of salt creeks, and siting the
car-shed well away from other
sheds containing fertilisers,
“Sarina”: All who experi-
ment with unusual garden plants
should take an interest in botany.
Ignorance can be dangerous. I
found one man’s pet garden
subject to be hemlock, source of
powerful drugs, and a dangerous
growth to handle. A woman was
growing deadly nightshade in her
garden, as if it were something
remarkable. The plant could
easily have poisoned her and
members of her family.
“Calos”: Sandflies are likely
to be bad this summer. Their
bites cause loss of condition
among stock, horses with their
sensitive skin being the chief
victims. Rubbing the irritating
lumps against fences, etc., often
causes sores which become in-
fected. A sulphur ointment is a
good dressing for these sores, and
a light application of paraffin-
oil is necessary if a horse is being
worked. This will also help to
keep flies away from the sores,
“Inc”: Don’t be too hasty in
locking up ducks and geese in
the evening. Dusk is the outing-
time for insect life which pro-
vides food and exercise for the
birds.
“Myrr”: Under its tomato-
seed scheme, Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture announces
varieties and growers for the
current season; Scarlet Eclipse,
C. H. Isaac, Carnegie; Tatinter,
Tatura Dwarf Globe, Burwood
Wonder and Victorian Dwarf,
J. van Staveren, Shepparton
East; Grosse Lisse, D. Luke,
Wandin Yallock; Mortgage
Lifter, O. Haby, Portland. The
seed is grown, cleaned and
sealed under supervision of the
department.
“K.T.”: Those poultry-
fanciers who depend on hens to
rear their chicks might be repaid
if they try a few pullets on the
job this season. They are not as
heavy as hens and are prob-
ably fitter for the work. Pul-
lets generally go broody quicker
if they are sitting breeds. I have
found pullets from a White Leg-
horn hen and Australorp rooster
to be the best for chick-rearing.
“Mrs. Crab”: If you make
your own butter put the cream
on the stove and stir (but don’t
let it come to the boil). Then
put it away in a cooler or
refrigerator overnight and make
your butter with it next day.


NOW LETS
HAVE A scenes
M4n| ip
yv
IA
-thsrc—'
When you call for Brandy
make sure you say
scenes
BRANDY
“THE EMPIRE CHAMPIOM”
4gM
m
Distilled fljid Bottled by ANGOVES LTD.. South Australia
D.A.Z
■
111
m
%
; :
hi.
m
r
U
mm
■
■
1
" ;v
Hi
■ ' :;; v
V
THE ONLY THING TO
REPLACE lUPOWW
BHTtPB is more —
I
I LIFETIME
LEATHER
BELTING
fsd
fs
ON INITIAL COSTS
df
ON MAINTENANCE
PIONEER LEATHER RELTING
features:-
• “WET-FRAMED" STRETCHED
• UNIFORM QUALITY
• “DEEP WELD" ADHESIVE
• SUPERIOR CO-EFFICIENT
OF FRICTION
• LONG LIFE.
No belting has more proved, practical applications than
PIONEER BELTING, a name famous in Australia for 92
years.
Pioneer Belting often saves money on "initial costs" and
keeps saving it by providing continuous years of trouble-
free transmission.
The only replacement for Pioneer Belting is more Pioneer
Belting.
sdf
J. C LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W. 20-26 QUEEN'S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE, VIC.
OTHER LUDOWICI LINES OF EQUIPMENT INCLUDE: — Rubber Belting, Conveyor and Elevator Belting, Round Leather
Belting, Textile Leathers, Belting Accessories, Leather Packings, High-Speed Grinder Belts, V Belt Drives, Industrial
Clutches, Plain Bearings, Anti-Friction Bearings, Steel Shafting, Shafting Couplings, Shafting Hangers,_ Microid Bearing
Metals. Porous Bronze Bushes, Gears, Pulleys, Wall Brackets, Variable-Speed Drives, Ludowici Pivot Drives, Fla-Seal Oil
Retainers, Composition Packings, Lutex Industrial Plastics, Industrial Gloves, Rubber Hose, Lemcol Trucks, Wheels, Castors,
etc., Perry Chain Drives.
THE MIGHTY ATOM
BY DAVID ROWBOTHAM
THE place is like a nomad
come to rest between a
hotel and a fashionable
drapery - store. There’s
something of the gipsy about it.
The Council members have con-
sidered it an eyesore ever since
they became ineffectually aware
of Progress.
It gets sprayed with exhaust-
smoke every time the Carbine
Stout truck that serves the hotel
labors away from the kerb, and,
with its doorway so far in-set, it
looks as shrunken and retreating
as the grey eremite it harbors.
The sophisticated well-to-do
patronise it only as a last re-
source, the aldermen never ; the
genuine and the poor reader,
both, you will find habitually
there.
Its owner is a man of vision.
Among an irremediable odor of
parchment he sits with his head
immersed in a silver beard and
Gibbon. You walk into the
twilight darkness in the hour of
a sunny noon, and, groping,
press the bell on the counter.
Up from his trenches of books
he rises, his beard bouncing like
a pillow being thumped as he
comes forward fountaining
from between lips that eighty-
odd years have thinned his in-
dication to be of service:
“Isss?”
YOU can’t distinguish him
from the atmosphere for a
while ; but you know he is there,
an old ghost among tombs of
books. As your eyes become
accustomed to the shadows, you
see the wraith materialise, move
and fumble with a withered
hand into a corner for your re-
quest. You cannot perplex him.
He knows every book he has in
his lilliputian shop and exactly
where to find it. He has grown
old with the place and its con-
tents ; has personally set the
books, one by one, like precious
bricks, into their niches, and they
have risen like a prison wall
around him through this half-
century.
There are magazines and
health-books in the congested
window facing Main-street, an
Encyclopaedia Britannica, travel-
books, a derelict Robinson
Crusoe, song sheets, an out-of-
place dull brass gong with a flaw
of verdigris across its silent face,
a Conrad, a Lamb, a Byron, all
literally dissolving and running
into one another. The yellowed
notice propped up against The
Ingoldsby Legends invites you
to sell or exchange your maga-
zines, novels or school-books,
and it is pointed out that some-
where among the musty piles in
the interior is a circulating
library which you may join for
two shillings.
A shelf bordering the outside
of the window at knee-level sags
under the weight of the “six-
pennies,” that poor, flaunted,
neglected cluster whose only
function seems to be that of
barrier between passer-by and
small, dim window bearing the
block letters which proclaim,
largely but unsententiously, that
this is THE MIGHTY ATOM.
Hundreds of people in
town have had their educa-
tion from the “second-hands”
bought from the “The Mighty
Atom” ; second-hands that have
been sold back again to the tiny
place, and from there again re-
sold, and so on, until some of
the books, like Livy and Long-
man’s French Grammar, contain
inside their covers whole lists of
locally-familiar names, erased or
pasted over, or cut out, or just
lazily left, willy-nilly, to assert
the last immediate ownership.
And the Westerns, comics
and the supplements, suspended
by clips from the ledge along the
wall nearest the light of the
doorway, come in and go out,
change and are exchanged,
circulate and turn about the one
spot till their covers fall in
tatters and their colors die and
they are finally rejected as un-
saleable or —reassuring you that
time does flow there —as “out of
tate.”
WHEN the inquisitive ask the
grey ghost what is going to
happen to the “Atom” when he
stops haunting the world with
the aura of his permanence, he
tells them in a voice that
crackles—you swear his beard
will burst into flame there in the
gloom to accompany the sound
—that the “tamned” Council
won’t get the place anyway;
that he has “mate provisshun”
in his “vill” ; and “tat t’ pooks”
(with a rotund and hollow
motion of hands)—“f pooks vill
go t’ Ron and Chim and Eric
and Cheorge and Tom and
Tavey and Vally and ”
He is, you see, a man of the
restrained, rare vision his
rotund, hollow motion describes.
The Council, unfortunately, is
meticulous, and, though slow,
much more persistent than he is
immortal.


fi.
Ul
ui
UL
o
s
p
Hot, tired feet need
this treatment:—
A Cuticura Soap bath
and Cuticura Oint-
ment application. Try
it.and enjoy real foot
comfort. Cuticura
Ointment, Soap and
Talcum Powder—
the famous
! \/
CitSSSS 1
iP|
> IfM iAf- '; ,
, , •, • - > >....
;/a:s
wmm.
WgjM
hero is your opportunity to
ENLIST WITH RANK
in the
AUSTRALIAN REGULAR ARMY
Maximum age for enlistment, 43 years
Study these
advantages
and
act quickly
Salaries in accordance with rank.
Initial engagement 6
|||P^
• ' Ojiporlmiili e^^^^n gagement^'' v''
or
gratuity of 6 years* service,
15%*, „„ /n ,/H« i
'* % X 360 corapMjpn rJ2 years service, or
• Li Mansion over, after 20 years service*
Also normal enlistment with or without a trade
Call and have a talk with the Officer-1 n-Charge at your nearest Army Training Depot,
or tend the coupon below to Army Command Headquarters in your capital city for
further details of enlistment in the A.R.A. with rank.
NAME..
MmiminiiuHlHWHHiinMiiHnmninmiiimni
RANK.
ADDRESS
imumiiniiimHiminni
fs
z/tmao
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Aids to Botany
by H. J. Bonham. —4912.
To buy copy of Old Colonial
Architecture by Hardy Wilson. —4911.
Does Anybody Know?
Source of the following quotation
from the writings of Bishop Berkeley :
An omnipresent eternal Mind which
knows and comprehends all things, and
exhibits them to our view in such a
manner, and according to sucli rules as
he himself hath ordained, and are by
us termed the laws of nature.
—4913.
Information Sought.
Origin and meaning of jingo and
jingoism ?
The derivation of jingo is uncer-
tain, but the modern application was
borrowed from the lines of a music-
hall song by W. Hunt, very popular
in 1878, the chorus of which ran:
We don’t want to fight, but by Jingo ! if
we do,
We’ve got the ships, we’ve got the men,
and got the money too.
The term jingo was at that time used
as a nickname for those who sup-
ported Beaconsfield’s anti-Russian
policy of sending ships to the East
to assist the Turks against the Rus-
sians. From this the term has come
to mean any person who advocates
a bellicose or Chauvinist policy, and
jingoism, therefore, denotes the policy
of the jingoes.
* * * *
Who were the Lake School of
English poets ?
It was the name given to a group
of poets of whom Wordsworth was
the acknowledged head and founder,
and so called because his home for
sixty years was in the Lakes district.
Southey, Samuel Taylor Coleridge
and De Quincey were the chief of
the group, and Shelley, Scott, Carlyle,
Mrs. Hemans, Matthew Arnold,
Edward Fitzgerald, Tennyson, Gray
and Charles Lamb, although not
directly connected with the school,
were connected with the district.
* * * *
What is lactose or milk-sugar, and
how is it obtained?
It is sugar found in the milk of
all mammals to the extent of about
4 p.c. It may .be prepared by separat-
ing the casein of milk with rennet
and evaporating the remainder;
crystals of lactose are formed, and
may- be purified by recrystallising
from water. Lactose is not so sweet
as sugarcane, but is much more easily
digested by infants, so that cow’s
milk adapted for use in babies’ feed-
ing-bottles is commonly sweetened
with it.
* * * *
Who were the Fifth Monarchy
Men?
A religious sect in England in the
time of Cromwell, who thought his
government was a preparation for the
“fifth monarchy,” during which
Christ should reign on earth. They
advocated a code of law based on
that of Moses, and when they saw
their hopes not likely to be fulfilled
turned against Cromwell. Their
leaders were arrested, but after the
Restoration the sect again gave
trouble; the insurrection was sup-
pressed and eleven of the leaders were
executed for high treason.
* * * *
How should a villanelle be written,
and who are the best-known expo-
nents of the form ?
It js verse written in five or more
tercets (three-line stanzas) and a
quatrain, all on two rhymes, the
middle line of each tercet rhyming
with the second line of the quatrain.
The first line is used to end the
second and fourth tercets; the third
line ends the first, third and fifth
tercets; and the quatrain ends with
the first and third lines. Examples
will be found in the works of Austin
Dobson, W. E. Henley, Gosse and
Long.
* * * *
What uses can be made in cabinet
work of (1) onion-wood, (2) cork-
wood, (3) beefwood ?
(1) Onion-wood, which is soft and
easily worked, and takes a good
polish, is suitable for counters, wain-
scoting, furniture, doors, panelling,
etc. (2) Corkwood is suitable for
indoor work, but only when little
strength is required. It is light, and
very soft, with a close grain, having
a small, neat figure when cut on the
quarter. It could be used for panel-
ling, skirtings, mouldings, sashes and
flooring. (3) This is rather open in
the grain, but takes a good polish.
Not generally used, on account of
its rarity. It is especially suitable for
ornamental boxes, brush backs and
cutlery and scientific-instrument
cases.
Brief Answers.
R.W.H.: It is a product from the
cleaning and preparation of polished
or white rice. In Australia it is
produced from the rice grown in the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area in
N.S.W., and usually comes on the
market in the form of rice hulls, a
rough stock or poultry food supplied
by produce merchants. Communicate
with your State Department of Agri-
culture for further details 0.G.5.:
An effective home-remedy is to line
the crown inside the leather band
with strips of folded paper or cloth.
Any hat-cleaning or -renovating firm
in your city would advise other treat-
ment if required, or write to W. D.
Needham, 759 George-street, Sydney,
or A. Howard and Son, 149 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney Bendigo: The
Duke of Kent was killed in an aero-
plane crash in Scotland on August
25, 1942, whilst on a flight to Iceland
to inspect British forces. Two Aus-
tralians were among those who lost
their lives —Flight-Lieut. F. M.
Goyen, of Melbourne, who was cap-
tain of the Sunderland flying-boat,
and Pilot-Officer Sydney Wood Smith,
of Sydney, who was second pi10t....
E.P.: Caravans and Touring in Aus-
tralia, published by “The Australian
Motor Manual,” 1 Knox-place, Mel-
bourne; price, 4s. 9d J.G.D.:
From Liberal Party of Australia
(N.S.W. Branch), 30 Ash-street, Syd-
ney J.S.: Particulars of the fourth
Albury Art Prize exhibition are
obtainable from H. G. Twomey, Sec-
retary, Albury Art Prize Committee,
Beehive Buildings, Dean-street, Albury
(N.5.W.)....R.J.8.; Write Secretary,
Australian Journalists’ Association,
145 Collins-street, Melbourne
A.N.: Eddie Butcher was born at
Mount Gambler (S.A.) on November
19, 1902. Butcher claimed, and was
recognised as holder of, the Aus-
tralian welterweight championship
when Harry Collins went to Eng-
land in 1926, but was knocked out
by Billy Grime in a contest for the
title on January 1, 1927 J.S.: The
line “Tiger, tiger, burning bright” is
from William Blake’s poem “Tiger.”
B.J.: “Intelligence Digest,” 7023
Empire State Building, New York,
N.Y., U.S.A W.G.: Write the
Australian Institute of International
Affairs, 369 George-street, Sydney
R.G.S.: W. Baverstock, 4 Park-
avenue, Mosman (N.S.W.), will make
and overhaul rigging for VJ to 8-
metre yachts R.J.R.: Write Excel-
sior Supply Co., 154 Broadway,
Sydney G.S.: Write Qld. Dept.
of Agriculture, Brisbane E.A.G.:
Solicitors are not compelled to give
a copy of the will, but probably
would do so on payment of appro-
priate charges. A copy cannot be
obtained from the court until after
an application is made for probate.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless , stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
A. 8.: “Church Sunday” well done,
but you didn’t make a story of it
W.W.: Liked the operation on the
horse, but the story wasn’t up to it.
M.F.: Too much about too little.
Bellerive: Open the door of
memory:
G.M.D.. Sad and slight
8.Y.: “Rabbit Drive” was quite
good, but not good enough to justify
the lack of story A.M.: “Uncle
Boris” somewhat forced W.S.:
Demigods—we don’t deal in them....
H.W.: “Fool’s Luck” failed at last.
. ...C.8.W.: “Please” —no, thanks.
Z.V.W.: Swags and purple
snakes went out with* eight-guinea
suits A.E.H.: You stretch too
many probabilities C. 8.: Well,
you might read the stories we print
and then try to write something dif-
ferent G.F.S.: “Death Eaters” is
all talk C.D.: You do very well,
but a woman trying to write like a
man among men is always at a dis-
advantage D.G.: “The world
should be given, by proper publicity,
to understand ” —we do most of
that sort of thing ourselves W.R.:
“The Ringer” rung off J.P.S.:
“Any Complaints?” No, but it’s not
one of ours J. 8.: “Night Walk”
very pedestrian... .J.L.: But you
killed off that idiot boy in these very
pages some months ago Z.V.W.;
We’ve turned off the floods for the
time being C. 8.; We didn’t expect
brummagem from Manchester!..,.
E.S.: Might make a paragraph
J.E.S.: Sorry D.A.T.: “Heart’s
Desire” not ours H.C.: True but
sad S.A.H.-K.: It’s been done so
often M.N.: Too slick and not
slick enough H.S.: Only a para-
graph L.H.: Too gynaecological.
.... F.H.W.: Keep closer to life;
these complicated plots worked out
with dummies are the mark of the
beginner W.M.: You have suc-
ceeded in being romantic and trite
at the same time N.S.: Camels
are a su.bject, but you don’t do
anything with them A.H.C.
Horrible people E.J.T.: Thin....
M.D.: “The Pickled Pick-Up” is only
the preliminary notes for a story.
Recollections of Bendigo.
The Alexandra Fountain
And busy Townhall,
The stores and hotels.
In verse I recall.
The old cab stand
Where) cronies did meet.
And Rosalind Park,
A favorite retreat
To old and young
From summer heat,
With its shady trees
And flower 'beds pretty.
For years the pride
Of the golden city.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor pla'ced first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Beef Production
I have just finished a 2000-mile tour of
much of the beef-cattle country of the
north. I went with one of Vestey’s
managers from Wave Hill right across
the stock-route to Urandangie and on
to Dajarra; I inspected 20 mobs of
cattle —over 20,000-head —and it seems to
me that the growing of beef cattle in this
country is backward and wasteful and
has not improved much since I was a
drover’s boy for Kidman.
The real problem with beef cattle in
the north is the low rate of production
by grass-feeding, and that can’t be altered
until there’s fodder-growing for cattle-
raising. In good country the rate
is about 50 acres to the beast, else-
where about 100 acres to the beast and in
the poor country more than a square mile
to a beast.
There are many places on those four
large rivers in the north —the Fitzroy,
Ord, Victoria and Katherine —where we
could irrigate and grow fodder for
cattle. Sorghum is growing well now in
many places in the N.T. \
Grass-feeding of cattle was all right in
the pioneer days, but out-of-date now
with the. present world demand for more
beef.
Droving is also a wasteful method of
moving cattle. On the Murranji track I
saw a drover who in one night lost 500-
head out of a mob of 1250. Cattle
should be bred on the highlands, fattened
on fodder grown on the river-flats and
then killed at local killing-places. The
dressed carcasses should be flown out to
the coast. The offal and waste should go
into fertiliser, and be turned back into
the soil as top-dressing.
At present the north is mainly a country
on which to breed store cattle, which have
to be fattened on the famous Channel
country of south-west Queensland—the
best cattle country in Australia. Irrigate
the Channel country and we could pro-
duce by fodder enough fat cattle to build
up a great beef industry. We could grow
enough fodder in one year to last two.
Also, instead of 50 or 100 acres to the
beast, we could fatten two beasts to the
acre, a year earlier and 2001 b. heavier.
More bores aren’t the solution to the
drought problem. Around every bore
the cattle eat out and trample down a
large patch of bare country which, in a
dry time, grows larger and larger. That
means that cows and calves have to walk
out five miles to feed. They are too weak
in a dry time to stand that, and they die
in hundreds around the bores. — Michael
Sawtell (N.S.W.).
Army Inventions
I don’t agree that public pressure from
the old volunteers and amateur riflemen
forced the British Army to adopt the
breech-loading rifle (B. 2/8/’5O). The
most potent influence in that direction
was Germany. The first breech-loading
rifle used in a European war was the
needle-gun, which contributed so largely
to the Prussian defeat of the Austrians in
1866. Only a year later British troops
used the breech-loader in action for the
first time —during Napier’s campaign in
Abyssinia, in 1867.
True, most new weapons are invented
by civilians, because the Army’s job is
not invention, but training for war.
Nevertheless some of the Army’s
dangerous tools have been invented by
soldiers. A notable example is the
shrapnel shell, called after its inventor.
Major Henry Shrapnel of the Royal
Artillery. He had to carry out his ex-
periments at his own expense, but so do
most other inventors. The shrapnel shell
was used for the first time in the cam-
paign against Surinam in 1804, but it did
not come into general use until
Wellington started to pulverise the Frendh
with it in the Peninsula and at Waterloo.
Incidentally, one Army invention is
used everywhere in civilian life. That is
the wrist-watch, said to have been used
for the first time by cavalry officers in
India. In the uniforms of the pre-Boer
War days, mounted officers found it more
convenient to get regimental saddlers to
make them leather wristlets on which
they could wear the rather large watches
of that era. It was not long before watch-
makers got into step with the demand
and turned out watches of the size we
know today.
In the 1914-18 war the wrist-watch was
practically an article of equipment for
the A.I.F. —the Tommy’s definition of a
Digger was “A bloke with a wristlet-
watch who calls his ’orse a cow, and his
choom a blankard.” — Pip Tok (W.A.). ,
Farmers and the Pound
Heth’s cartoon (B. 9/8/.’50) should
ring a bell in certain quarters, but I doubt
whether it will. All this talk of “produce,
produce and keep on producing’ in an
effort to stem the inflation spiral is all
very well, but it 'applies to certain classes
of goods only.
In ordinary times, news such as we
have received that Australia is in for
another excellent season would be re-
ceived with cheers. Under our present
very lopsided set-up, the fact that the
cockies will soon have another batch of
millions with which to compete on the
starved Australian market is a cause for
alarm.
Our great-grandfathers managed things
better. They produced their crops or
clips, chartered a ship, sent the stuff
overseas and brought back goods in
exchange. They needed those manufac-
“ Don't Worry. If We get lost I can always take my bearings from
that tree on the left”
tured goods, even as we do today, and
an inconvertible “book-entry” in London
would have been no good to them, and
it’s no good to us either.
Those Australian funds in London
have reached astronomical proportions
and will now be further increased. We
must get goods for them sooner or later,
and, unless the whole thing is to become
unmanageable, the sooner a start is made
on the business the better. Lowering the
exchange-rate and tariff-wall would set
things humming, but as soon as anything
like that is suggested there are screams
from our local manufacturers, who are all
doing so ilicely in the way of dividends.
A shot of healthy competition from over-
seas would do the poor Australian public
a lot of good. That would put some value
back into the pound.
Yells would also arise, no doubt, from
the unions, who like to see employees
doing as little as possible in a 40-hour
week. If these people are to have their
way, and it looks as though they are, then
half our farmers had better be put to
some other sort of occupation. They
won’t like it, of course, but we can’t go
on for ever being content with incon-
vertible balances in London.
The whole essence of trade is goods for
goods, and the sooner some simple
homespun economics are applied, the
sooner value will be restored to the wast-
ing Australian pound. There’s no great
mystery about it —despite the jargon of
politicians, professors of economics and
central bankers. — Ceg (Vic.).
The Vanishing Race
Vital statistics indicate that the natural
increase of Australians is dwindling so
fast that it will soon be replaced by a
rapidly-growing deficit.
One of the main causes is the short
working week, which creates an abnormal
demand for more female “hands” to
produce the normal quantity of goods.
Girls are almost snatched from school-
rooms and bribed by high wages and
attractive conditions to fill vacancies in
factories and offices. Many of them are
easily converted to the modern idea that
the domestic arts are beneath their
dignity as independent wage-earners, and
that glamor and social liberty are
preferable to the homely virtues and
accomplishments.
If and when they marry, they continue
to punch the clock, refusing to give up
the fun of the factory for the loneliness
of the kitchen, or the separate salary for
pin-money. Motherhood to them means
the beginning of a new and fenced-in
career for which they have not been
prepared.
The Australian breed is heading for its
last round-up. Even if the uneasy peace
continues the land must be peopled by
a mixed mob of strangers or the housing
problem will solve itself by the shortage
of home-grown Australians. —E. O. (S.A.).
Houses
The lack of houses is a constant
reproach to the builders, public
authorities and workmen of this country.
Houses could be built and built fast if
we first made some order out of the
chaos that now exists. Faulty organisa-
tion is the prime factor in the housing
shortage. The importation of complete
prefabricated houses, at ruinous cost, is
one example of a crazy approach to a
problem that should be tackled from the
ground up. Literally that is the approach
necessary, for it is the shortage of the
essential things, the products of the earth
in the form of bricks, timber, plaster, coal
and steel, that strangles the building of
homes. Allied to that is the haphazard
and careless approach by architects, site-
planners and public authorities to plan-
ning, site preparation, services, etc.
For proof, look at the next housing
estate you see, and note the unmade roads
and men struggling through mud and
slush to build houses in paddocks. There
are men busy putting the water and the
sewer in after the trucks begin to bring
in the materials, and costs mount as they
struggle against the obstacles of earth
torn to a mudheap or pitted with huge
craters. What it must cost in time and
wear to transport and plant!
Tradesmen in the industry are said to
be in short supply. That may be so, but
the labor we have is not used to the full.
Tradesmen in the building industry are
still employed on a basis that leaves much
to be desired. They are engaged,
employed and fired on an hourly basis,
and usually their work is of a temporary
nature. They owe allegiance to no one
employer, and because of that are gener-
ally unstable and migratory creatures. In
consequence their labors are often half-
hearted and inefficient.
To fulfil our housing needs there must
be better organisation, new methods in
planning and an enlightened approach to
the use of labor. — lago (Vic.),
Rent
“K.R.” (B. 23/8/’5O) represents a
multitude of tenants who believe they
have, a divine right to occupy homes
regardless of the human rights of the
landlords.
His argument that the rent should be
reduced because it is collected regularly
works both ways. The home is in
constant use. It is a primary necessity in
a civilised community, and should there-
fore be a first charge on the income of
the tenant. Its value is greater than that
of the portable comforts and commodities
with which it is furnished and main-
tained.
The man who supplies the roof has as
much moral right to demand a profit on
his investment as the purveyor of bread,
sausages, beer or tobacco. Yet otherwise
respectable citizens who would blush to
beg charity from the baker demand hous-
ing accommodation at less than cost from
the owners, who are the only taxpayers
compelled to serve the public without
either thanks or pay.
Here is how the system works: A
landlord I know owns three cottages
which have been let to the same tenants
for many years at considerable loss. The
tenants are all in steady employment at
good salaries. Two of them are sub-
letting rooms at more than the original
rent. The owner is trying to sell, and
could get a fair price if he could get rid
of the tenants. As that is impossible he
must continue to shelter people much
richer than himself without reward. —
Politics (S.A.).
Public-opinion Polls
I wouldn’t worry about that Gallup
Poll’s finding that a majority of Aus-
tralians favor the watering-down of the
White Australia Policy (B. 26/7/’5O).
Australian Gallup Polls have generally
proved pretty close to the mark as regards
probable voting trends at elections and
referenda. A poll of this character,
too, can test accurately public feeling on
such subjects as whether councils should
let grounds under their control be used
for Sunday sport, or whether a hotel
should be built in a particular suburb.
Most people have definite opinions on
these matters.
But when it comes to complex social,
political and economic questions public-
opinion polls are not always so accurate.
Many interviewed have devoted little or
no attention to the question at issue, and
are completely uninformed as to its impli-
cations. They are also called upon to
make snap decisions. With better know-
ledge and time for consideration they
would very often take a radically different
line. If modification of the White Aus-
tralia Policy became a political issue a
comfortable victory for the “noes” would
be pretty certain.
Public-opinion polls shouldn’t be held
on such subjects. They are likely to be
harmful, in some cases through the im-
pression they create abroad, and in others
by their influence on the internal situa-
tion. As Christopher Hollis, M.P., shows
in his analysis of the Gallup Poll in Can
Parliament Survive ?, they may well prove
ruinous to Parliamentary government. —
Economist (N.S.W.).
Building Monopoly
West Australia has the strongest trade-
union in Australia; oddly it is the
Master Builders’ Association. And more
oddly it obtained its charter of monopoly
of the building-trade from the late un-
lamented Westralian “Labor” Govern-
ment, which ran the western State for
something like 15 years.
After the 1914-18 war scores of young
fellows, eminently capable, entered the
building-trade as contractors, thus creat-
ing a healthy competition which kept
prices moderate and gave the home-
seeker the impression that somebody
really wanted the job of building him a
house.
During the “long weekend,” however,
under the pretext that such legislation
was necessary to counter “jerry-building,”
but really to prevent Southern Europeans
entering the building-trade, the then
Trades Hall Government, with the under-
standing that the Master Builders’
Association would “play ball” with the
Building Trades Employees’ Unions,
passed an Act which forbade anyone not
a member of the Master Builders’
Association building under contract any
edifice above the value of £4OO. That
figure has since been raised by the
McLarty Government, after protest by
the R.S.L., to £6OO, which is much the
same thing with the increased price of all
building material.
Thus the home-seeker with a moderate
amount of money finds that he can deal
only with a member of the Master
Builders’ Association, members of which
probably know the other fellow’s price
and, being under no spur of competition,
feel little necessity to bend in the slightest
to the needs of the supplicant client.
Of course, all the master builders of
the time automatically became members
of the monopoly association, even though
their methods had ranged no higher than
the “rule-of-thumb.” Now young blood
aspiring to enter the monopoly guild
needs practically a university degree in
all branches of the building-trade. That,
of course, must be accompanied by a
joining-fee, the exact amount of which is
not made public. But everybody inside
the building-trades is happy, not
excluding “legislators” who created the
monopoly.— Mud Hut (W.A.).


the difficulties of controlling a 6ft. l|in.
white rabbit at Sydney Royal.
The rabbit, of course, is Harvey, the
invisible but constant companion of
Elwood P. Dowd, a gentle, philosophic
tippler whose only ambitions are to love
his fellow-men and to linger over an
occasional glass and natter with his
rabbit. His troubles begin when his
sister and a brace of psychiatrists attempt
to take his rabbit away from him, and
end when a taxi-driver who plies between
the city and sanatorium points out that
most of his passengers are much happier
on the way to the sanatorium when they
have their illusions than they are on their
way home without them.
The play is amusing and has a
modicum of truth in it, but it leans
heavily, as many other American prize-
winning plays do, to that sweet mixture
of sentimentality and moralising, as
though the authoress, Mary Chase, has
been overanxious to underline the lesson
of the piece. It would be much more
amusing if it were delivered as a
whimsical trifle and its lesson, obvious
enough, left unread.
On the opening night Joe E. Brown,
who plays Dowd, seemed as anxious as
the authoress to read the lesson, and that
anxiety, combined with Mr. Brown’s un-
mistakable presence and characteristic
comedy, tended rather to make Harvey
even more invisible than he is. Brown
is a very funny and very honest
comedian, but one hesitates to credit him
with the brand of whimsy which is some-
times dispensed by, say, Cary Grant, and
which seems essential to the play.
* * * Hi
Another outbreak of comedy is in
evidence at Sydney Palace, where Arthur
Rigby and Malcolm Phillips are stirring
all the pother they can into “Madame
Louise,” Vernon Sylvane’s farce about a
bookmaker who collects a dress-shop as
payment for a bet, and moves into the
place to hide out from some itchy-fingered
gunman. Rigby and Phillips make a good
team; the former is a tallish, well-built
customer with a fairish thatch and a
remarkably flexible body and features,
both of which he twists and distorts to
an astonishing degree in the cause of
amusement; he dispenses his humor like
someone lazily but expertly tossing
pebbles into a pool, and pauses to observe
the ripples of appreciation spread through
the audience. Phillips, on the other hand,
is smallish, baldish and in a constant
flurry of propriety, suppressed indigna-
tion and terror. The pair of them strike
off each other like flint off steel, and it
would be interesting to see them in some-
thing of more substantial comedy content
than the two mildly amusing Sylvane
efforts in which they have so far played
to Sydney.
* * * #
With a sinful family history and a
prophetic ghost as in “Hamlet,” a .sleep-
walking scene as in “Macbeth,” several
touches of “Romeo and Juliet,” a number
of lines neatly adapted from the Bard
sod the murder of a wife by a jealous
husband as in “Othello,” Edward Reeve’s
Raymond, Lord of Milan,” put on by
Sydney Metropolitans, is, to put it mildly,
somewhat derivative. But there is at
•east one pretty line about ruined
maidens, the murder scene is quite mov-
ing and the final spectacle, when every-
body kills everybody with a stiletto in the
hack, is very nice indeed. It is imitation
Lhzabethan drama, not really any good,
hut Byron wrote tragedies quite as thin,
an d it has some interest as a literary
curiosity: Reeve was a prominent
member of the “S. M. Herald” staff years
ago, and, written in 1847, the play was
mst produced in 1863. The Metro-
politans, instead of going for blood-
curdling melodrama, played it straight
and tepidly. Some vigorous moments
trom Robin Lovejoy and the murder
scene between Richard Meikle and
Lynne Murphy lit a rather dim evening.
* * * #
The play which purports to deal with
the problem of homosexuality is
Orney Boy,” and is the work of
Tom Alexander, director of the
US. Information Bureau in Sydney.
It moved one critic to comment
that such a subject would have
shocked the sensitive and reticent
theatregoer of a year or so ago, but he
must have forgotten “Patience,” which
deals with just that subject and deals
with it as divertingly as one could
imagine. Where G. and S. succeeded in
producing the proverbial silken purse,
however, Mr. Alexander is more-or-less
left with the original material. He
presents the case of a young man who
seems to be headed for a fate' worse than
death, and whose father believes that his
son’s salvation lies in having an attrac-
tive young woman seduce him away from
doubtful paths to more normal pleasures.
There are moments in the play—such
as the situation when the young woman
is trying to get on with her part in the
business, and the father is enthusiastically
interrupting with encouragement and
X&xr
Mb.
&£
Wot?iv
refreshments and the mother is interrupt-
ing for directly opposite reasons —which
seem to show that Mr. Alexander might
have done better had he led his story
along paths of comedy instead of plung-
ing it, as he does in the last act particu-
larly, into the deepest depth of melo-
drama.
The Independents went at the piece
conscientiously, with Ivor Bromley as the
father, Lorna Lawrence as the mother,
Benita Harvey as the girl, John Crane
as the young man and Russell Jarrett as
the fate w.t.d. They all had their
moments —Bromley seemed to have the
most—and it wasn’t altogether their fault
that they sometimes got laughs where
they weren’t intended.
Elisabeth Bergner.
Miss Bergner made her appearance in
“The Two Mrs. Carrolls” at Melbourne
Princess, and one wondered why she did
it. It was like inviting Backhaus to play
boogy-woogy. With his wonderful tech-
nical skill Backhaus could no doubt do
quite a lot with boogy-woogy, just as
Melba could do, and did, quite a lot with
Home, Sweet Home,” and Miss Bergner
does quite a lot with the second Mrs.
Carroll, especially in the first part. She
was arch and kittenish and played the
baby-wife to perfection. She put nuances
in which the playwright never thought of,
just as Backhaus could put nuances into
boogy-woogy. But one was left with a
feeling of irritation which deepened in
the second act when the play came out
in its true colors or lack of color as a not-
very-extraordinary thriller with a very
badly trumped-up and absurd finale.
Miss Bergner, with her magnificent
equipment, plus charm and beauty,
chooses half-way through to become a
sick, haggard, tottering creature, occupy-
ing an unconscionable lot of time climb-
ing up and down stairs with stage arsenic
doing its deadly work inside her. Why
she should think that was entertainment
when she could have been doing St. Joan
or Desdemona passes understanding. If
Miss Bergner understood the great de-
signs of Shaw or Shakspeare how could
she be interested in the mediocre designs
of Martin Vale, the author of “The Two
Mrs. Carrolls”?
The play arouses the same vague feel-
ings of irritation as Miss Bergner. There
are no improbabilities in it. Wives do
poison or unconsciously wish to poison
their husbands sometimes, and Anatole
France wrote a magnificent story on the
subject in which you can identify your-
self with this person or the other. But
you can’t feel or identify yourself with
anybody in “The Two Mrs. Carrolls.”
Alan McCulloch obviously enjoyed
slinging round the pigment which goes
to make his show at the Stanley Coe
Gallery as much as he did his sojourn in
Capri, Siena, Forte dei Marmi and
Naples, and even the titles, especially if
you don’t know what they mean, have a
jolly air about them “Neopolitan
Serenade,” “Carrozzolla” and “Cacciatori
in a Pine Forest.” As with Nurse Cavell
and patriotism, exuberance is not
enough, however. There are a giddiness
about Mr. McCulloch’s color and an in-
coherence in his forms, which could do
with a bit of discipline in the matter of
values.
TALKIES
The Eternal Return.
Cocteau has always been a one for the
legend, also for the conjuring trick and
anything else that will help to pass a dull
moment; so it is not surprising to find, in
his modern version of Tristram and Isolde,
a love-potion labelled “Poison” so that
no one will take it by mistake, ad-
ministered to the lovers by a malevolent
tragicomic dwarf who hopes to kill
them; so throughout the piece, tragedy,
melodrama and farce are mingled to-
gether—as, indeed, they are in the plays of
Shakspeare.
The important thing with legends is
never to explain—and Cocteau is awake-
up to that, as witness his skilled handling
of the love-potion, which enables a
20th-century audience to accept it
without questioning ; but his assumptions
impose a little too much on the audience’s
credulity when a nephew, Jean Marais,
anxious for his uncle’s, happiness, meets
a Gallic Garbo (Madeleine Sologne) on
an island belonging to the uncle, brings
her home to be his uncle’s bride, has her
accepted by his uncle and, not till then,
begins to think he’d like her himself.
Granted this situation, the plotting of
the mother and father of the dwarf, and
especially of the dwarf himself (Pieral),
to break up the marriage and retain their
position in the castle is the most satisfying
part of the play; there is an excellent
comic garage-proprietor who wishes the
nephew to marry his beautiful sister
(Junie Astor); but the nephew can’t get
the Gallic Garbo (a hard one, that,
hein ?) out of his mind ; and if they look
a little like a well-dressed shop-window,
laid out on a boat in the last scene in the
boat-shed, it would be hard not to feel the
ennobling effect of the legend in this
film ; it would not be surprising if a new
school of film-production came out of it.
Over the last couple of weeks there
has been a temporary lull in the gener-
ally steady stream from Hollywood.
Gregory Peck turned up at Sydney Plaza
as “The Gunfighter,” a rather talk alive
and inactive western about a gunman who
wants to have done with the exciting life
and settle down, but whoso reputation
seems to keep him on the draw. Another
western, or, rather, a sling-off at westerns,
“Ticket to Tomahawk” (Sydney Esquire),
uses the story of a train which has to get
to Tomahawk with at least one paying
fare to carry out its contract, but it takes
fright at its own temerity in burlesquing
Hollywood’s stock-in-trade, and backs
down before it’s fairly started. Dan
Dailey and Walter Brennan are its main
props, with Anne Baxter providing
decoration. Another sling-off—uninten-
tional —cropped up at Sydney Regent in
“The Black Rose,” a technicolor piece
which goes back 1000 years or so and
shows Mr. Tyrone Power doing an epic
trek from England to China across Asia
and wrestling with that doughty Mongol
Orson Welles.
* * * #
Metro’s “Reformer and the Red-
head,” a light piece about a zoo-keeper’s
daughter (June Allyson), her father (Cecil
Kellaway) and lawyer Dick Powell, had,
a brief run at Sydney St. James, along
with the same studio’s “Stars in My
Crown,” a homely story of. a preacher
(JoeTMcCrea) who delivers his sermons
with a couple of revolvers lying on the
table in front of him. Further western
doings were offered in “The Cariboo
Trail,” with gold, cattle and Injuns and
Randolph Scott and Victor Jory at each
other’s throats again ; and Johnny Weiss-
muller, the one-time Tarzan, indulges in
some aquatics and derring-do as Jungle
Jim in Columbia’s “The Captive Girl.”
“THE BULLETIN”
CROSSWORD No. 87
. , Across.
* (lo) t k y an English film-actress.
s—Just a club for spice. (4)
3 Str i|e disturbance for one who
11 ni rves 'ns country. (7)
11 £, owe ?' horn the sea-mine. (7)
ii sun-god and I chant. (7)
- Sibilant isn’t a person of most
pious history. (5)
Six-footer and I left a tragic
heroine. (8)
-British island developed from
, monkeys.- (3)
'“-Hostelry. (3)
• wrong in the water-controller
m a creature with a shell on its
Tack. (8)
£ ree on board watch. (3)
Rene whelp to finish off a mili-
-2? \ y . cam Paign. (3-2)
a ’■Patient gesture ornament
28 ra a dress - (?)
S d . erly soldier is less insub-
29—wn^ 1 -
Ser. n (7)° dy has backed 1116
30 —Kicked information of the gift
for Edward. (3)
I—Resting-place wickedness was in
the van when possessed of a
demon. (10)
Down.
1 — Cloth father has nothing up with
him. (6)
2 Clubmen observe the nonsense on
people born under the first sign
of the Zodiac. (9)
3 Begin a description of the last
suit in which I had a meal? (8)
4 Horseless on a figure henpecker
in the middle of the middle of
the day. (7)
6 Donkey to sicken and attack. (6)
7 The act of making oppressive
demands of the precise Idriess. (8)
8— Divert the morning custom. (5)
10—Object found in the night. (5)
15— People who row have this. (3)
16— Monkey to spoil the Roy Rene
clique. (8)
17— Starting-price on the can before I
finish off an Italian composer. (8)
18— Hellish in the plant with a name-
sake of Capone. (8)
20 — Corn fee (anagram). (7)
21 — Broken doors in such areas. (5)
22 —Digger suit. (5)
24 —Prohibited Communist of the
drinking-saloon. (6)
26 —Throb of parrot-feed. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 86.


<r.
«3
v
BROADCASTING
Vs-
Ay
o
J
V?.
TELEPHONE MANUFACTURE
V
m
$ \Vs
MARINE WIRELESS
V.^
AVIATION
EQUIPMENT
cv9
u
t■ i n~rl ~H | | | \ •.
RECORDING
n
n
HEAD
OFFICE
Y
m
si
m
RADIOTROK
VALVES
t=3
CQT
aJO
V
MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS
RADIOLA
RECEIVERS
*1
ENGINEERING
SALES
TELCON
CABLES
o
TRAFFIC
SIGNALS
o
c-
-3
0
AMPRO
PROJECTORS
c
as
•t*
o
SMITHS CLOCKS
RADIO
ELECTRIC
WORKS
%
A
°*N IS
Australia's National Wireless Organisation
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
In pioneering ship-to-shore communication, far
back in 1913, Amalgamated Wireless placed
Australia abreast of world progress in the science
of Wireless.
Today navigation in the air as on the sea
looks to A.W.A., the fountainhead of electronic
research, for the latest developments in radio
technique to ensure safety and comfort in travel.
