

The Bulletin
*The Bulletin,Vol. 71—No. 3676
Wednesday, July 26, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
r T’HE historic city of Worcester began
'*• as a Roman settlement guarding the
ford across the River Severn. This was
followed by a medieval town which
spread to the other side of the river, and
in the year 690. when its real history
began, the Church of St. Peter was
founded there. Shortly afterwards this
church became the cathedral of the
Anglo-Saxon tribe of Hwicce. The town
grew in wealth and importance, but, being
easily accessible from the sea, it suffered
periodically from the raiding Danes.
Tradition asserts that on one occasion a
Danish pirate who was caught in the act
of carrying away a chalice from the
Cathedral was caught and flayed, and his
skin was nailed to the door of the
Cathedral be had violated.
Towards the end of the ninth century
Ethelred, King of Mercia, fortified the
city against the Danes, and it remained a
wailed city until the eighteenth century.
St. Oswald, who rebuilt the Cathedral,
obtained a Royal Charter from King
Edgar which made the city the centre of
all county administration. So strongly
did St. Oswald lay the foundations of
local government that even after his
death in 991 the citizens rebelled against
their king and killed the tax-collectors of
. Hardicanute.
In 1084 the Cathedral was rebuilt by
St. Wulfstan in the new Norman style,
and its crypt is incorporated in the pre-
sent building. During the Civil War,
Worcester was the first city to declare
for Charles 1, and it was the last rallying
point of the Royalists round the young
Charles II who was defeated at the Battle
of Worcester by Cromwell in 1651. For
its fidelity to the monarchy Worcester
earned for itself the title “the Faithful
City.” After the battle 6000 prisoners
taken by Cromwell were confined in the
Cathedral.
Henry II and his Queen were crowned
in the Cathedral in 1159, and King John
was buried there in state in 1216. His
thirteenth-century effigy in the Cathedral
is the earliest Royal effigy in England.
Worcester has long been famous for
its Cathedral music, as it is the scene
every third year of the world-renowned
Three Choirs Festival,
WORCESTER’S PORCELAIN, SAUCE AND CATHEDRAL MAKE IT'S FAMOUS TRINITY
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


Learn
m
rrr-:;
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney "Bulletin. ’
My Name ..t
My Address
S-8.150 ... AGE
The Red Page
OTHELLO’S FELLOW.
The last time this page saw lago was
about a year ago (B. 29/6/’49), intro-
duced by Professor J. JML Stewart as “an
imaginative device for making visible
something in the operation of time.” One
merely recorded the matter without
comment, and just as well, for Dr.
Richard Flatter, in The Moor of Venice
(Heinemann), will have none of it.
Though he seems unacquainted with
their mutual friend, Professor Stewart,
Dr. Flatter says flatly that lago is no
complementary part of Othello’s mind,
but lago ; no mere personification of un-
limited evil, but a play-actor; probably
played at the world-premiere by Shak-
speare himself.
He was probably played by Shakspeare
because the part is so important, and the
part is so important because it was prob-
ably played by Shakspeare.
Still, Dr. Flatter (adverted-to on the
cover as a “foreign translator” —
possibly, as the work has been copy-
righted in New York, a translator of
Shakspeare into American) puts up
several new and agreeable theories;
notably that lago was a play-actor—that
is, a man who dramatised himself, and
in his chosen character invented an
intrigue for those about him: his wife,
Othello, Desdemona and Cassio.
Now this is more easy to believe than
“something in the operation of time” or
“the personification of evil.” lago. Dr.
Flatter will admit, was a man of ill-will.
There is nothing unusual about a man
of ill-will. Many of them get on very
well in the world. Moreover, it is charac-
teristic of the type that it will go out of
its way to do mischief. Such a man will
«ee himself as a wicked fellow, doing
the universe in the eye. To dramatise
himself as Mephistopheles is his instinct
Nobly, Dr. Flatter throws aside any
props of motive lago might have had:
While agreeing on the one hand that
lago shows neither any passionate desire
for advancement nor any passion of hatred
for Othello, 1 have on the other hand sub-
mitted that there is indeed one passion in
him, a passion so overwhelmingly powerful
that it leads irresistibly to action: his craze
for play-acting.
The argument then becomes: Having
failed to get Desdemona for Roderigo
and still needing Roderigo’s money, lago
promises further efforts. The efforts
evolve into an intrigue, which he knows
will never benefit Roderigo ; the intrigue
may as well therefore become a play
lago casts it and studies his own part in
the mirror of the soliloquies:
lago’s part as seen from his own angle
is the leading part in a comedy of clever-
ness and wit, and....he enjoys its per-
formance tremendously.
There are several other perceptions
which bear on this plot. One is that
Othello is not jealous ; several quotations
are hauled out to show that Othello was
anything but quick to suspect his wife,
and that he was most reluctant to deal
with her when lago had, clearly enough,
seemingly, proved her guilty. Another
is that Desdemona was by no means
what Bradley called her, “a saint.” She
was a faithful wife, but also a sensual
wife. She put considerable store on her
conjugal rights. None knew this better
than Othello, or realised more than
Othello that, in eloping with him,
Desdemona had “deceived her father.”
And, says Dr. Flatter, it was by mani-
pulating these two facts, that she loved
being loved, and that she was capable
of deceit, that lago managed to arouse
Othello’s suspicions.
A further theory is of the manner of
Othello’s death ; Othello, says Dr. Flatter,
was a Christian; having groundlessly
killed his wife, he could at least go on
and meet her in heaven;
If the actor, having stabbed himself,
moves towards Desdemona’s bed, smiling,
nay, laughing with relief and jubilation,
when he dies “upon a kiss” as a lover in
the ecstasy of happiness; when he com-
bines the frenzy of death with the rapture
of love, then, I think, he will do what
Shakspeare wishes him to do.
(How embarrassing these critics get
at times!)
The rest of the book is an effort to
make the rest of the play conform with
these views of it. Dr. Flatter tells us
that the whole idea came to him when
he was translating the lines:
1 hate the Moor,
And it is thought abroad that ’twixt
my sheets
He has done my office.
As a matter of fact it was that little word
And ’ that started me on the journey of
the present inquiry 1 found that my
predecessors had ignored the “and,” with
the result that in their versions what comes
after “I hate the Moor” has the appearance
of an argument for tago’s declaration ....
The point being that although iago
does not believe the gossip about his wife
and Othello, he is prepared to use it in
his make-believe part to justify a hatred
of Othello. There are several other nice
pieces of textual criticism, one of which
tends to show that in the hand-
kerchief scene Shakspeare dropped a
syllable to allow for a piece of stage-
business ; where Emilia produces the
handkerchief from behind her back:
Lqoke, heere ’tis.
With the words: “Look, here ’tis”
she produces it as if with the “hey presto”
of a conjuror
Modem versions give the Quarto read-
ing, “Look here it is,”
There is also a disquisition upon the
original stage-directions or lack of them,
and a scene-by-scene reconstruction of
the probable manner in which the play
was staged at the Globe Theatre.
Throughout the book it is obvious that
Dr. Flatter is anxious not only to impress
his theories upon his readers, but also to
get actors to do the play his way, or, as
he modestly puts it, “as Shakspeare wishes
them to do.”
Shotgun Biography.
Peter de Polnay says somewhere in
Into an Old Room (Seeker and Warburg)
that while he was living in Edward Fitz-
Gerald’s house Boulge Hall, in Suffolk, a
great-niece of the old poet dropped in
and told him not to write a biography
of her revered great-uncle because he
would write a book “like Lytton
Strachey’s.” Mr. de Polnay, who, after
annoying the great-niece by saying that
there was “a mystery” about Fitz Gerald
—which there isn’t —went ahead and
wrote the biography, records that he was
“flattered” ; and well he might have been.
As the biographer blunders about the
Suffolk countryside with a shotgun under
his arm, now popping off a couple of
waterhens, now sorrowfully missing a hen
pheasant, now compensating himself with
a rabbit or a holocaust among the rooks
—“ln 1946 I shot over 300 rooks” —he
is not at all like Lytton Strachey ; who,
if he did somewhat pepper the majesty
of Queen Victoria, did so with a finesse,
a grace, a sympathetic and profoundly
humorous malice that left her personal
dignity unimpaired and her character all
the more endearing for the exposure of
her foibles. And Queen Victoria was,
after all, about Queen Victoria. With a
fine sense of form, with a beautiful dis-
regard for all details that would have
obscured his central character and
obstructed the flow of his narrative,
Lytton Strachey—as we say—“stuck to
the point.”
Into an Old Room is chiefly about
Peter de Polnay; how he came to occupy
the house once owned by the translator
of Omar Khayyam ; how he settled in
with his wife, his dogs, his ducks and his
shotgun; how with unrelenting en-
thusiasm he waged war on everything
in his neighborhood clad in fur or
feathers ; how he ate and slept and hoped
to see ghosts; how he talked to old
peasants who gave him odds and ends
of unreliable information about Fitz-
Gerald ; how he interviewed experts in
museums and libraries. It is all in the
style of the books which journalists such
as Douglas Reed Wrote before the war;
as a kind of flattering background, the
continent of Europe or the life of an old
poet revolves humbly around the author
. . . as if The Life of Samuel Johnson
had been The Life of James Boswell,
with some incidental references to an un-
important acquaintance named Sam.
Instead of being quiet and self-effacing
like Strachey, Mr. de Polnay is chirpy,
bright, devil-may-care, irreverent and,
with small birds and animals, deadly.
And ail this, to be sure, is well enough
in its way: especially if you happen to
be a fan of Mr. de Polnay’s war novels
(which the present reviewer has not read)
or if you are fond of bright journalese
and dead birds. The reviewer, alas, hap-
pens to be fond of biography.
Flattered though Mr. de Polnay was
by the reference to Lytton Strachey, it is
probable that Fitz Gerald’s great-niece
meant no more than that she feared he
would attempt a “debunking” biography ;
and in this less flattering prophecy she was
right enough. What is left of Edward
Fitz Gerald after Mr. de Polnay has been
at him with his shotgun is hardly worth
picking up.
The interesting things about Fitz Gerald
are; how he came to translate Omar;
what else he wrote; his friendship with
Thackeray and his meetings with other
literary men such as Tennyson ; his celi-
bacy ; and the eccentricities of his old
age.
Round about the middle of his book
Mr. de Polnay comes to the shaft of sun-
light in that quiet grey life and tells how
Fitz Gerald, always interested in trans-
lation, was led to the Rubaiyat (the
original meaning of the title is merely
“Quatrains") through his friend Professor
Cowell’s interest in Persian ; he gives an
interesting account of Fitz Gerald’s second-
best poem, the Bird Parliament from the
Persian of Attar ; there are notes on the
translations from Calderon, and
Sophocles; “old Thack” and Tennyson
duly come into the picture—and, gener ;
ally, even if one hesitates to believe that
Fitz Gerald took to vegetarianism out of
grief when circumstances broke up his
university * friendship with Thackeray,
this literary part of the biography is
reasonably satisfactory.
But all the biographical material,
whether on Fitz Gerald or his friends, is
too bright, and too shallowly Freudian, to
be convincing. How does Mr, de Polnay
know that a letter which Bernard Barton,
the Quaker poet, wrote to Southey, was
“effusive, humble and gushing” when, no
matter what else of Barton’s he has read,
he has never seen the letter in question?
How does he know, when there is abso-
lutely no evidence on the point, that Lucy
Barton, afterwards Fitz Gerald’s wife,
smiled “condescendingly” when he made
a joke at the Quaker poet’s dinner-table?
How can he maintain that Fitz Gerald was
utterly dismal at his wedding—“he walked
beside her mute, his head bowed” —when,
on being offered blanc-mange at the
wedding-breakfast, the bridegroom, obvi-
ously joking, exclaimed, “Ugh! Con-
gealed bridesmaid!”?
It is on Fitz Gerald himself, where he
should be at his best, that Mr. de Polnay
is most disappointing. While admitting
that the poet had, apparently, no sex-life
of any kind, the biographer insists on dis-
cussing him throughout in Freudian terms
w r hich are as misleading as they are dis-
respectful. In Freudian psychology a
sportsman who shoots 300 rooks is prob-
ably a very remarkable character ; and if
Mr. de Polnay doesn’t discuss himself in
these extravagant terms he should refrain
from his equally unwarrantable specula-
tions about Fitz Gerald. Besides, he is so
busy floundering about in his Freudian
theories that he has forgotten to give us
what is much more important: a living
picture of Fitz Gerald as he was in his
eccentric and amusing old age. The bio-
grapher keeps referring to the poet’s
“crotchets,” but, except in a negative way,
as when he denies that Fitz Gerald roamed
about Woodbridge barefooted, he never
gets round to describing what these
“crotchets” were.
Politics for Quiz-Kids
The success of a Penguin Political
Dictionary published in 1940 has induced
its compiler, Walter Theimer, with the
aid of others, to enlarge that work into
an Encyclopaedia of World Politics
(Faber). It will no doubt be useful to
competitors in loan-quiz competitions, so
long as its authority is consulted chiefly
on post-war political subjects; but even
then there are some errors of omission,
commission and compression.
The Australian reader will at once use
his yardstick on the 24 columns given
to “Australia.” He will read;
Australia was formed in 1901 by the
federation of the six States [fourth place in
priority given to Tasmania] In 1947 an
Australian was appointed Governor-
General for the first time—he was W. J.
McKell, Labor Prime Minister of New
South Wales The Liberal party is the
chief anti-Socialist party, though it is
not opposed to collectivist legislation to
maintain the standard of living.
The state of parties as returned at the
last Federal elections is incorrect in every
instance to .the flattering advantage of
“Labor.” Under the heading “Anzac
Agreement” it is noted, as an aside and
in parenthesis, that
ANZAC stands for Australian and New
Zealand Army Corps, the unit in which
soldiers from those countries fought in
World War I, since when it has come into
common use to describe co-operation
between the two Dominions.
These instances do not help to generate
confidence. Nor do the touches of
flippancy, as in the references to the
“East” and to the “Church of England.”
There is F. D. Roosevelt, but no
Theodore R. Mr. James Wilson, presi-
dent of the British Board of Trade since
1947 (not even a Cabinet Minister), finds
mention, but not General Mac Arthur.
Of H. V. Evatt —“A barrister, he was a
Justice of the Federal High Court from
1930 ,!° i? 40 ’ when he entered P ,
ment.” There is no Chamhf. Par] 'a-
l°ts of Hitler, and ‘‘VansittaS* 0 bu *
current of national hatred for r ls “a
which appeared in England durins w any
War 11, and was apparently caused?
Lord Vansittart rather than by
attempts to destroy London and m L an
a " d towns - It is quoted as avid?''
that Vansittart likened German* nce
butcher-birds. dns to
ITO is not the Japanese marquis
drew up the constitution for his ho
after the end of the isolation
he j S not mentioned -but “the inS?^
Wh nteri :h tional Trade S 8 . 0 '
quiz-master asks “Ww
GATI ? the unfortunate respondent I s
has drawn the question out of someh
hat will no longer be stumped “ hr X s
quires within these pages; answer-'i"'
initials of the General Agreement ble
Tariff and Trade concluded at Geneva 0 ”
francos name is kept evergreenV
a while in these pages, but not
bower’s or Montgomery’s. Soekarnot
here, but not Mountbatten, and virtual],!
the oniy survivors from the past ar
middle or far—are Machiavelli Edm. J
S B otiists. and
Reviewed Briefly.
Bhiemp and Bimbi: Leslie Rees
(Trinity House, Sydney). A I
Idtie story for children about'blufS
Waiter Cunningham’s illustrations m Z P
him the ideal collaborator for Mr. Reef
and he is as accurate and as vivid on
wrens, the bushes they nest in and the
insects they eat as he has previously been
on platypuses. y een
Hi Hi
The: Restless Voyage : Stanley Porteus
(Harrap). Mr. Porteus, Australian in
ventor of the Porteus Maze Tests, director
of the psychological clinic at the Uni-
versity of Hawaii, has rewritten A
Voyage Round the World from 1806 to
I 8 ! 2 ’ b Y Archibald Campbell, first pub-
lished in Edinburgh in 1816. Mr. Porteus
considers taat Campbell’s book was sub-
edited by a wowser; and his efforts to
repair this defect,, especially in the love
scene with the Hawaiian hula-girl and
in the description of the wild time Queen
iamena had when King Tamaahmaah
was away, err a little in the opposite
direction. However, it is a literary curio-
sity, and the ba sic story, of a sailor who
lost both feet through frostbite, was thus
entertained at Honolulu, returned to
marry his Scottish sweetheart, and then
studied in A .-ier to become a mission-
ary, until it became quite plain that this
was not his cabing, is interesting in its
own right.
* * *
, Crooked House .- Agatha Christie (The
Crime Club). Chari ie-whose-father-is-
Assistan t-Com i n i ssi oner-at-Scotland-Yard
is no Heron Ie Poi ret-—Agatha Christie’s
stories should ■ a note on their covers
saying whether the Master is appearing
tonight, or is indisposed. But the mystery
is still up to medium standard: the death
of the rich oid Greek, Leonides, in a
strange, crooked house, which several
families of his offspring shared with him,
throws suspicion on a writer and his wife,
on a businessman and his wife, on
Sophia, beloved of Charlie, and on Miss
De Haviland, who ;elps around. There
are also sons; amusingly matter-of-fact
children.
Point of No Return: John P.
Marquand (Hale). The various author
of The Late George Apley and the “Mr.
Moto” thrillers here shows how to
expand a short story into a novel. You
begin your shoo, story about a highly-
placed employee of a New York trustee
company going to dinner with one of the
hereditary heads of the firm. The highly-
placed employee is in the running for a
vice-presidency, but he is afraid that the
bluffing backslapper who is running
against him will beat him to the job. The
novel then runs into a flashback of the
highly-placed employee’s life; how his
father failed and killed himself, and his
girl threw him over; and then he came
to New York, and married the managing-
director’s secretary, who is now accom-
panying him to the fateful dinner. Foi
the last few pages of this 500-page novel
you then bring the reader back to the
short-story-dinner you began with, and
after contriving horrible moment attei
horrible moment, you at last hand the
highly-placed employee and the readei
the judge’s decision: which one gets t
job. Nevertheless, there is some exce ■
lent writing in the book —the scene wne
the highly-placed employee advises t
fabulously rich beneficiaries of a jr
account whether or not to buy a. H
ranch they happened to see ahd like ,
dounds to Mr. Marquand's er«p> .
to the credit of trustee-company otn
everywhere.


"TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING"
nthony Horderns’
>
W$ I < t%
m ■
si
m
m
f
VTJ
z/-
r
•vssrzzr-
if
me
J
f/f
\ if
-~j
m '
m
m
*■■
m
VT .>$ ' ' ;
. - \ ': >. i\- -v *y* e ,
,„ ' .... ! :''■-!■
=^^^^l^^^^^ *^^l aagafo
1 few ■'
•ii :
d
«L^
SI
o
Premier” 61H6
Hi ill
“Bonnyridge
Hy dr esse”
Exclusive to Anthony Horderns 9 in New South Wales
World-famous "ESSE” Stoves
The ESSE ’ Stove has a reputation for service and performance
that has made it one of the most sought-after stoves for country people.
Illustrated above is the model Premier 61H with hot
“New Welstood”
THE BOMYRIDGE HYDRESSE
The Bonnyridge “Hydresse” Independent Water Heating Unit is ideal for use in
the home, being both economical and durable. Burns all combustible fuel. Suitable
storage cylinder 40-60 gallons, 45,000 British thermal units per hour, 45 gallons
raised 100 degrees per hour,
THE “PREMIER” 61H6
The Piemier 61H6 with hot water unit giving all the advantages of heat storage
cooking, together with a plentiful supply of hot water to the kitchen, laundry and
bathroom. Always ready for service at correct cooking temperatures,- it is so flexible
undei the theimostatic control jjaat it will respond quickly to exceptional demands,
fitted with iust-proof solid panelled fuel doors. Boiler fire consumes household rubbish
thus saving time and energy. Catering capacity and hot water facilities are sufficient
for the average country home, an excellent addition to the home.
THE “NEW WELSTOOD” INSULATED COOKER
This insulated cooker gives instant cooking service and constant hot water service for
bathroom and kitchen. It has a large boiling and simmering area and two spacious
ovens one fast, one slow, any solid fuel is suitable and the fire burns economically day
and night if desired, caters for six persons.
“ESSE” STOVES DEPARTMENT—LOWER GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT)


BARNACLE
BEACH
By GLENN MACGREGOR
, . “T“HERE’S some funny old sticks
I living at Barnacle Beach.”
I That from old King! With
gimlet bright eyes under a per-
petual cabbage-hat, he is a large red-
faced obstruction on the steps of the
coastal bus either way. Or his feminine
voice hails us afar, and stops on a
breathless note only when the scorching
vehicle threatens to extinguish the lot of
usi
“He ought to know,” we sighed when
at last the merciful bus removed him
from our suffering ears. “Is it any
wonder that his blood-pressure is too
high?”
Funny old sticks? Definitely . . . First
person singular not excluded.
We live among the tea-tree, where a
click of the gate brings us from the
thunderous traffic of the highway to the
muted thunder of the checked Pacific.
We forgather at Andy’s general store to
get the evening paper: and woe betide
Andy if the paper is not in. What do
we keep him for?
“Though what we do keep Andy for,
I’m sure I don’t know,” Grannie sighs.
“Whatever I go to that shop to get, that
man has just sold out of it.”
“Well, did you bring the butter?”
The years have silvered the old lady
to a happy serenity. She betakes herself,
her purse and her infallible forgettory
with her when she goes shopping. Now
she sat down hard, and turned bluebell
eyes on me, while she switched herself
to the third person contemptible.
“You bet the old hen forgot the
butter. As a matter of fact, when she be-
held Andy, she got so excited that she
forgot everything she had come for.”
Andy is a harmless pilgarlic. He
purveys the penultimate in provender,
plus A.P.C. powders, and presides over
the general paraphernalia from light
globes to boot-polish, cakes, cream,
saveloys and soap, while his customers
he regards with circular brown eyes and
the general amiability of a kindly frog.
“Are you certain it was not Bosco who
upset your equilibrium?” I asked my
giddy octogenarian.
BOSCO! A kindly wiry confidential
little quidnunc . . . faded blue eyes
under a shock of white hair. Sixty-nine
next birthday, he assures me, and can do
a day’s work with any of them and a
damn’ sight better than most of them. He
comes in useful with an occasional
hammer about the place, since the
builder promised so faithfully never to
come back and finish the job. Of course
Bosco wouldn’t pass any remarks —he’s
not that sort —as he licks the eternal
cigarette-paper. He only yearns to know
how old the old lady is, how old I am,
and what I paid for the house.
What beats Bosco is how I managed
to get my permit.
“That new building inspector is such
a cow of a bloke. He comes snooping
round on Sunday morning, when I
thought I’d get a bit of work done.
‘What’s the matter with you?’ I says. T
don’t have to get a permit just to knock
up a bit of a shelter for the truck,’ I
says. But he cut up real nasty about it.
‘Look,’ I says, ‘l’ve seen some men in me
day,’ I says, ‘but y’ got a face on you
like the back of a bus.’ Drive y’ mad
they would.”
Me? When the inspector called, I
glanced from my watch to the officious
but dusty-looking young man on the
doorstep and to the kettle which I had
switched on when I saw him coming
down the track. “Are you addicted to
tea?” I asked casually.
In the meantime, the localites said
that I was lucky to get an ocean frontage,
since there were about two hundred
allotments, and fully two thousand people
hoping to get that rare bird, the gair bird,
off the, nests of the homeless. This block
would not have been available, only that
my neighbor Hyde filled a vacant allot-
ment by digging up the water-pipe which
ran through his land to the neighboring
property: thereby setting up a train of
events expressly designed for his own
discomfiture and my future benefit.
I had never heard of old Hyde or his
fulminating neighbor. When my war job
left me so long on the horizontal, how
was I to know that —such is the intricate
pattern of human destinies —two irate old
gentlemen abusing each other over their
adjoining fence in another State were
there, and then paving the way to my
post-polemic possession of a bird-wild
ocean-haunted sanctuary?
IT was just as well for Hyde that his
neighbor Hart was not a litigious
person. Instead of taking Hyde to court,
Hart betook himself down the coast, and
left the scrub to grow over the Barnacle
Beach allotment, since he had no other
access for a water-pipe. Two years later,
I arrived to buy the adjoining block, but
at first sight of Hart’s ocean frontage I
planned my casements opening on the
foam.
“Well, we could find out who owns
that. . . Bill,” the agent said, with a pencil
on the map, to his offsider, “just ring up
the council, will you, and ask who is the
owner of allotment twenty-seven, sub-
division fourteen, section forty-nine,
portion fifteen, parish of Tallygohopping,
shire of Cornealongdoo,”
I put that municipal string of beads in
my pocket-book for future reference, and
investigated recondite maps on the wall
while Bill managed at last, after half an
hour, to raise the wrong council. That
portion belonged to another shire over
the border, and it was a public holiday
over there. So I caught a Barnacle Beach
bus with the übiquitous King aboard:
and thereby discovered that Hart’s allot-
ment was undet offer to the surf-club.
Also that old Hyde was “cracking his
neck to get that land.”
With all that information added unto
me I acquired a bicycle to speed-up my
velocity, since the Prime Minister would
not allow me a car; and horses have me
bluffed. My last houyhnhnm used to
exercise me around the paddock on my
own locomotion. Not having mounted a
bike for quite thirty years, I fully ex-
pected to describe a perilous perambula-
tion across the oncoming traffic. But the
good old bike, with one irritable shrug,
said “What’s the matter with you?” and
brought me home with the traffic shear-
ing past my right ear.
EVENTUALLY I unearthed old Hart,
to be greeted at the gate by a pack
of nasty little toy dogs. Grey, spare and
square—a touch of the dapper about
Hart.
“I hadn’t considered selling that
land . . . not until the surf-club made me
an offer for it . . . they might have let
me know their decision instead of wast-
ing my time. Then that agent rang me
up ... he calls me Harry—l’m sure I
don’t know why. Says he was at school
with me ... I have no recollection of him
at all.”
Inferring that agents were not the sort
of person one knows. Hart sold me the
four blocks. I sold two of them on the
Chifley market to pay for the lot: then
chased up a plumber to put the water on
through the highway allotment before
I sold that without the expert supervision
of old Hyde, who was well away for the
weekend.
I was sloping round kicking the sand
off the survey pegs when old mahogany
Hyde came over with his restless brown
filbert-shaped eyes, to see if there was
anything I ought to know.
When the little man had exhausted the
procrastination of the council, and
regaled me with his ancient diversion
with Hart—of which Hart had already
told me —I asked, “Then how am Ito get
the water through here?”
“But you’re all right. You re on the
highway,”
“Yes: but I’ll be needing a tap here.”
“Are you trying to get this?” Hyde
asked suspiciously.
“Got it.” A yard of pump-water like
me!
HAVING incidentally defeated Hyde’s
Fabian policy, X left him to the
devil’s paternoster: while I stopped,
willy-nilly, to listen to Tim my neighbor
in the bracken. Is it yourself, long lad ?
Tim’s idiomatic Irish is mostly lost in
the great Australian language, and the
powerful six-feet of him is getting stooped
now. Though his blue eye is as clear
as the map of Ireland all over the face
that they gave him, plus a hearty roar
of a voice.
Tim had an ocean frontage himself, so
he did. But when he retired, having,
like so many others, bought land he had
not seen, he came down and, begob, he
cleaned up, the wrong block. Put in a
damned lot of work, so he did, and when
he went back to the council; damned if
they didn’t tell him that his allotment
was number one seven and not seven one
at all,
“I was that wild,” said Tim, “I went
back next day and asked that bloke in
the office if I couldn’t get some compen-
sation for me hard work, d’ y’ see. I
reckoned the job was worth five pounds
to the feller that owned it, and me puttin’
in all that hard work cleanin’ it up fer
’im. But the bloke in the office, he says
‘Just be quiet,’ he says just like that, ‘just
be quiet now, or y’ could be had up fer
trespassin’.”
Round the contraption of a house that
he built out of two Army huts when,
having got fed up and sold that other
block rather than clean it up, too, Tim
is after building a fence—and an Irish-
man’s fince it is, too —to keep thim
damned wallabies out.
“But you’d never find wallabies only
fifty yards from the highway!” I pro-
tested.
When I got up too early and tripped
over a perfectly good wallaby just
ferninsht the clothesline, I had more
respect for Tim’s veracity. “And I’m not
one to be tellin’ y’ a yam,” said Tim.
“Y’ know in Ireland, the finces are
not like,this: they’re made of old stones
and rocks and such-like, and they’re wide
at the top; so wide y’ could walk along
the top, and there’s weeds and wild-
flowers and things stickin’ out of the
stones. We missed the old goose: we
couldn’t find her anywhere, d’ y’ see?
One day she flew down from the top of
the fince, and just flapped her wings and
died straight off the reel. And the old
gander just flew straight up on the wall
and sat on them eggs himself, and hatch
them all out he did; and divil a chance
we had of gettin’ anywhere near him at
all. And that’s the truth I’m tellin’ y’,”
said Tim.
T SN’T it always the truth Tim is telling
I me! When he arrived with a large pie-
dish heaped with strawberries —“for them
strawberries is ripenin’ something
terrible” —he lit his old pipe and related
the tale of the dead man’s horse. Locked
in the stable at night it was: but every
morning it was found hard-ridden in a
lather of foam, and nobody but the dead
man himself could ever have put a leg
over that horse.
“It’s as true as I’m sittin’ here,” said
Tim. “For there’s some strange things
happen in Ireland, and I’m not one to
be tellin’ y’ a yarn just fer the sake of
talkin’. I seen ’im meself when I was
after gettin’ home at one o’clock in the
mornin’. All of a sudden I hears clop,
clop, clop cornin’ along the road, and
’ere ’e comes on the old grey horse,
sittin’ up there in ’is grey workin’-shirt
just like we sees ’im any day. I seen ’im
with me own eyes,” said Tim.
“Did he see you?” I asked profoundly.
“And how the hell do I know that?”
roared Tim. “Begob, if he did, it wasn’t
for long; for I took to me heels and
never put on the brakes till I got well
inside me own gate.”
<i “T HAT Tim,” said Bosco, when he
A just slipped over to borrow a pen
and ink to drop a line to the wife, and
just an envelope if you’ve got one, and just l
a stamp if you don’t mind: “That Tim
is as ignorant as a pig; but we’re good
friends. He pops his head in the kitchen
the other Sunday morning, and he says
to the wife, ‘Hullo, Mum,’- he says, ‘now
can I take Dad down to the pub for a
drink, because it’s me birthday?’ says
Tim.
“ ‘Now then, Tim,’ she says, ‘that’s the
fourth birthday you’ve had in six
months.’
“ ‘Well, aren’t I an Irishman?’ says
Tim, ‘and time does go quick for the
Irish.’ Tim talked the leg off an iron
pot, and ‘Me and Dad,’ he says, ‘we’ll
just have one drink, and be back in
twenty minutes.’ When we got down to
the pub, there was a crowd there, and
Tim got a few drinks in and began to
talk. Then the wireless struck up an
Irish jig, and damned if old Tim didn’t
dance the whole thing through. By God,
we had some fun. Old Pop Wills’ was
there, and when he wanted to go home
himself, he says ‘Come on, Tim, you’ve
had enough: I’ll run you home in the
truck.’
“But Tim says, ‘To hell wid yer old
truck. Y’ should see the smart limousine
we’ve got callin’ for us.’ And Willsy
says, ‘So the truck’s not good enough for
you now, is it?’
“ ‘Not a bit of it,’ says Tim, ‘Y’ should
see what we’ve got cornin’ fer us, haven’t
we. Dad?’
“Then young Wally drove up in the
old bus, and said to come on home the
both of us, like we promised Mum.
Gripes! You should have seen Willsy’s
face. But damned if old Tim didn’t get!
a bottle of beer out of the publican; his
blather would pull a broody hen off the
nest. He lobs into our kitchen with it,
and ‘How is it now for a glass of beer?’
he says to Mum.
“ ‘Now, Tim,’ she says, ‘you know I
never touch that stuff.’
“ ‘Go on, now,’ says Tim. ‘You, know
you’re sixty-five if you’re a day; but if
you drank that bottle of beer you
wouldn’t be a day more than twenty-five,
and you wouldn’t look it either.’ And
nothing would do Tim but Mum must
have that bottle of beer just to please
him, because he reckoned it was his
birthday.
“ ‘Now look, by God,’ says Tim, if I
could only get my old woman to drink
a bottle of beer like that, it’s meself that
would be the happiest man alive. But
she won’t touch a drop of the stuff, and
instead of being a happy woman like she
could, there she goes with a face on her
like a sour old broody hen.’ ”
aKA RS. TIM,” I said. “Where did you
IVI ever get the likes of Tim.
“Yes: she’s a nice person, that, r irn
admitted with sobriety. „
“Bpt what could she see in you, inn*
“Shure, I won her in a lottery, said
Tim. »
“I’m sure he’s been a good man to tor,
Mrs. Tim said in her patient way.
just does whatever I tell him.”
Mrs. Tim carries her years with a cam
countenance and a fine reserve. '
I don’t have much to do with people.
until I take a fancy to them.”
She has yet to take any fancy
Bosco. , of
“No, you don’t get any change our
Mrs. Tim. She doesn’t have anything
say to me. Class snobbery, that s w
it is,” the little man explained when
{Continued on page 22.)


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3676
Wednesday, July 26, 1950
VftfSfNe
WAGES
CDs^
“AND EVERYWHERE THAT MARY WENT THE LAMB WAS SURE TO GO!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
NATIONS AND UNITY.
Every day makes it clearer that the
theory of U.N.O.’s being the driving force
in Korean defence is nonsense. The
Security Council may make the decisions,
but carrying them out at the risk of
whatever consequences ensue must fall
to the British Commonwealth’s older
Dominions and to the United States.
Mr. Menzies seems obviously to
recognise this if he has been accurately
reported as saying, in London, that
U.N.O. might be well fitted to have great
moral authority, but that it had no
material effect. He believed the forces
involved in Korea were national forces,
that what was done there depended on
national power, that the world has “not
yet reached a state of affairs in which an
international organ has international
power at its disposal,” and that we shall
discover that “the greatest menace in the
world is from the people who believe in
this false hypothesis of world power.”
Mr. Menzies contended that while
world opinion must have its effect,
national strength within the British Com-
monwealth and a foreign policy running
with defence policy was the more vital
factor in assuring security, and that one
of the curses of the international situa-
tion today was that of multilateral agree-
ments “based on the absurd idea that a
pact made with 50 nations was more
likely to be performed than an agreement
made with one you knew and trusted.”
He added: —
All we have got to do, all Britain and
America have to say is “We don’t need to
have national forces,” and then freedom
will be snuffed out in a single day.
That is the test of the matter. At
present the Americans, with limited help
from the United Kingdom and Australia,
are engaged in trying to hold back the
North Koreans from U.N.O. territory,
they being members of the Security
Council of which another member is
supplying the aggressors with arms and
giving them every assistance and en-
couragement possible. Russia doesn’t
admit the legal existence of one fellow-
member of the Security Council, Nation-
alist China, which every other member
acknowledges and concedes to be dowered
not only with legality, but with the right
of veto and with the right to hold military
command over U.N.O.’s “forces” ,once
in so many months. Still another mem-
ber of the council which has declared
itself in favor of U.N.O. action against
the aggressors—lndia —is carrying on
some curious private bargaining about
Korea with the Russians (who have previ-
ously declared formally that they have
no part in the Korean invasion) along
lines which suit both the Russians and
the North Koreans.
Pandit Nehru, in fact, has tacitly
admitted that he believes the Russians to
be right in holding that Communist China
is entitled to displace Nationalist China
in U.N.O.’s agencies, and urges that
Russia be appeased in return for use of
its influence to halt the North Korean
march against the South. The reply of
Stalin to Nehru that he welcomes the
latter’s peaceful initiative and shares the
Indian point of view on the expediency
of peaceful regulation of the Korean
question through the Security Council,
“with the obligatory participation of
representatives of the five great Powers,
including the People’s Government of
China,” is a piece of hypocrisy at which
any national leader but the author of it
would blush, seeing that to Russia alone
is due the condition of affairs in Korea.
The Soviet Union has insisted from
the beginning that it will agree to no
government of Korea save of the kind
which it dictates in all its satellite coun-
tries. Professing to favor peace at
any price, and indeed being the main
organiser of a so-called “World Peace”
campaign, it would not even send a dele-
gate to the Security Council to discuss
the cause of peace. It was Russia which
made the division of Korea into two parts
inevitable. It has been Russia which has
armed the North Koreans to kill South
Koreans, Americans, British and Aus-
tralians, and it is Moscow which has been
cheering on the aggressor and black-
guarding those who defend the viewpoint
of U.N.O.
If Pandit Nehru, an old Marxist
student, believes that agreement with
Russia upon any basis save one which
will promote an extension of the Com-
munist world revolution is possible, he is
simpler than he looks. And if he be-
lieves, on the basis of the history of the
past five years, that Russia will keep any
agreement which it makes with the rest
of the U.N.O. Powers, he must be the
most trusting politician on the globe.
There can be no reason for bargaining
about the status of nations involved in
the Korean situation. The fallacy seems
to be general that intervention there is
illegal unless ordered and authorised by
U.N.O. The British Socialist Govern-
ment admits, even while it is dickering
with Gromyko, the substitute of Vyshin-
sky (who has been in smoke in Czecho-
slovakia for a month), that this view does
not hold water. Mr. Attlee’s Attorney-
General, Sir Hartley Shawcross, dealt
with the whole matter very lucidly a few
days ago when he said that even if the
action of the Security Council had not
been legal without the presence of the
Russian or Chinese Communist delegates,
what had been done would have been
valid under the common law of nations
without intervention from the Security
Council at all.
Before the Charter of the United
Nations had been adopted, he declared,
aggressive war had become an inter-
national crime; and that “was affirmed,
not least by Soviet Russia, at the Nurem-
berg trials in which I and my Soviet and
American and French colleagues took
part.” Not only has it always been the
law that a State which is attacked is
entitled to defend itself from aggressive
attack, but other States, whether under
treaty obligation or not, are entitled to
go to its assistance.
These rights under international law
were not abrogated by the charter of the
United Nations. They still stand, as
does the right of a citizen to intervene,
and even to arrest the criminal, when he
comes face to face with felony.
It would be healthier, and render the
present situation less liable to complica-
tion, if a return were made to the old
order and it were recognised that coun-
tries which are not prepared to give aid
in dealing with aggressors are denied the
right to interfere in matters in which
they have no status save as international
busybodies.
Also, if all English-speaking peoples
were to agree to arm to the point from
which they could pursue their own in-
ternal policies safely, being mutually
pledged to stand together in case of
attack, they would be powerful enough
to act as a police-force against aggres-
sion menacing either themselves or
Western civilisation. There is only one
influence today threatening the peace of
the world and the rights of small and
large people alike to determine their own
destinies. That is the force of Com-
munism, the plans of which are rooted
in international banditry and violence.
There is only one source capable of
producing effective resistance to this
horrible creed the English-speaking
people acting in complete unity.
TTiis appears to be the direction in
which the thoughts of Mr. Menzies are
running. It is the right direction, and
the only one in which inspiration for
patriots is to be found.
Mr. Chifley's Memorial.
War in Korea, and the threat of exten-
sion in Asia and Europe of the Soviet’s
aggression which fomented it, are making
the Australian public aware of forfeits
we shall have to pay for four post-war
years of Socialist misgovernment.
Against the temporary good times of
high wages (negatived by correspondingly
high prices) at home, and the absence of
competition in the markets we exploit
abroad, are to be set the loss, the waste
and the decline in national morale caused
by the ravages of Communists in the
trade-unions and the cowardly tolerance
by “Labor” of these hostile activities.
The threat of another great war, and
the engagement of Australian airmen and
seamen in the theatre where war has
broken out, have made every Australian
with a mind above lottery-drawings and
s.p. betting conscious of a new signifi-
cance of power-blackouts, gas-failures,
steel shortages and the virtual intern-
ment of overseas shipping in our ports.
For these afflictions have grown with the
operations of Moscow’s fifth-columnists
in our midst —glamor-boys in the eyes of
“Labor’s” socialisation fanatics who
acknowledge Mr. Chifley as “our great
leader.”
“Labor” under the Chifley spell has
been so intent upon nationalising Austra-
lian commercial enterprise that it for-
sook its national responsibility in a world
denied peace. It was so taken up with
“social security” that it has left this
country open to the enemy. There are no
coal reserves, and the miners’ Communist
bosses have made it their policy that
there shall be none. The heads of the
principal transport services are red-hot
members of the Communist party. The
temper of the metal and engineering
trades is much corroded from the stuff
fed to them by Communist wreckers. The
steel and allied industries have, perforce,
been for so long inured to working at
half-capacity that their managements
have forgotten what full-time operations
were like. If the long-neglected hospitals
throughout the Commonwealth despite
Mr. Chifley’s “free” doctoring schemes
were suddenly called upon to meet the
emergency of war on Australian soil they
would break down.
The other day Mr. Chifley went along
to the annual A.L.P. conference (N.S.W.)
in Sydney to give it his views on the out-
break of the Communist war in
Korea. For years past he had been say-
ing that the prospect of war was receding,
and that Australian Communists were
harmless. Only last December he told
the electors that Corns, were a bogy raised
by Mr. Menzies for political purposes.
Only a few weeks ago he and his party
(defeated at the elections on that issue)
were resisting every effort of the new
Menzies Government to legislate, as the
electors authorised it to do, to lay these
traitors by the heel.
It was obviously with a bad conscience
that Mr. Chifley made his excuses. He
said that none of his blunting of the
anti-Communist Bill on its first submis-
sion had rendered it ineffectual, and that,
anyway, the Government could deal with
the Communists of the Seamen’s execu-
tive —over the ban on handling war sup-
plies for Korea —under the Crimes Act.
It is at least something that Mr. Chifley
admits virtue in the Crimes Act now,
though he never did before. Improving
on his recent approval in Parliament of
the Government’s assisting American
hostilities in Korea, he called the attack
on South Korea “wanton” aggression.
And as for Communism in general, here
and everywhere:
Communism is never constructive, always
destructive, in order that the ideology it
supports may become dominant in the
world.
A Daniel come to judgment!
Mr. Chifley has been a long time
seeing the light. These Communists—
“never constructive, always destructive,”
bent like Hitler (“the Fascist beast”) on
universal domination by force —were only
a few years ago his allies. Leading Com-
munists, known for what they were,
swelled “Labor’s” campaign committee,
under direction of Mr. Chifley and Dr.
Evatt, for the 14-point referendum in
1944. Therein the combination was going
all out for the common objective, the
socialisation of all business enterprise and
the overthrow of “capitalism.”
In 1947, having attained the means of
implementing the socialisation objective,
a thumping majority in both Houses, such
as no “Labor” leader had ever enjoyed
before, Mr. Chifley faced his real test.
The Communists raised their heads every-
where, and notably in opposition to the
Woomera rocket-range. Though the
Government had to crack down on them
over that, Mr. Chifley fenced with
questioners in Parliament concerned about
the loyalty of certain Government em-
ployees.
Asked outright whether he would
cease treating the Communist party as
“an ordinary political group” and would
reimpose the ban upon it, he made his
celebrated reply:
The Government does not propose to
place bans on any class of political philo-
sophy or thought.
Mr. McEwin: But this is treason; this
is not political philosophy.
Mr. Chifley : The Government’s view is
shared by many people. Consideration will
not be given to imposing a ban.
Mr. Hutchinson: In view of the Aus-
tralian Communists’ serious threat to the
Australian economy and way of living, will
the P.M. now consider firm action to
counter their foreign-inspired efforts?
Mr. Chifley ; For years the Labor party
has made it perfectly clear that it is
entirely opposed to the political philosophy
of the Communist party.
Just before the annual Sydney A.L.P.
conference of 1948 some five members
of the “entirely” opposed “Labor” party
sponsored a motion in caucus that the
Communist party should be suppressed.
It was overwhelmingly defeated, Mr.
Chifley declaring that “Labor” had been
built on the efforts of minorities and
Dr. Evatt presenting an Intelligence report
that Communists were on the decline and
that the “relatively few” in the Com-
monwealth Government’s service were
“harmless.” At the 1948 A.L.P. confer-
ence, Mr. Chifley acknowledged obliquely
the menace of strikes to production,
appealed for harder work to offset short-
ages and inflation, and said the situation
abroad was gravely anxious; but for the
rest he might never have heard of Com-
munists, though his newly-returned
Minister to Moscow, Mr. Maloney, was
raising the roof with denunciations of
them.
By Easter-time, 1949, Mr. Chifley was
ready to admit that Communism must
be “combated.” So was the British
Socialist Government, which sent Lord
Listowel out to talk to Mr. Chifley about
it. It was “indicated” to the Press in
Canberra that the two Governments were
agreed on a plan “necessarily somewhat
vague,” to “prevent the rise of Com-
munism by abolishing its causes”—that is
by “improvement in living standards and
guarantees of security to all sections of
the population” (Communists not ex-
cepted).
Once more the Sydney A.L.P.
conference came along in June, 1949, and
Mr. Chifley told it he was “bewildered”
to find people in Australia believing
Russian conditions were better than ours.
Communists, he said, were throwing fuei
on flames in east Asia, “not helping but
rather hindering” an “upsurge of nation-
alism” there, but “we can’t cure the
economic evils in those countries or in
Europe,” and all we could offer was “our
example and such advice and assistance
as we can give.” War, he thought, had
“receded even further than 12 months
ago,” and he did “not believe Russia was
so foolish as to want another war.”
Then came the Communist-ordered
coal strike of the 1949 winter and Mr.
Chifley’s aggrieved discovery that his
“philosophers” were “traitors,” “agents of
a foreign Power,” and advance-agents of
“the law of the jungle.” When the strike
failed he forgot all the promises (uttered
through the mouths of half a dozen
Ministers) to clean the Communists up,
and by the time the December election
came round they were again, for him, a
mere bogy to frighten children.
Mr. Chifley’s altered mind (if it is
altered) can now have no great influence
on events. His easygoing tolerance of the
Communists has always been his long-
suit, and that in turn has been made pos-
sible —as all Australians should realise —
only by their long tolerance of Mr. Chifley
and his sob-stuff about “crucified
workers,” the “crool depression”—emo-
tional excesses which set exactly the note
the Communists wanted for reception of
their own performances.
And, for a memorial of the Chifley
regime, let the Australian people look
around them.
The Rape of Our Soil.
Soil-erosion has been discovered again,
this time at the N.S.W. Agricultural
Bureau conference, where Mr. J. R.
Somers told the assembled farmers and
their wives that Australia couldn’t support
20,000,000 people if it didn’t check erosion
and rabbits. True enough; though a
point to be noted is that 20,000,000 would
have the problem slammed home to them
far more fiercely than happens to the
existing 8,000,000, who manage to do well
because their country is so vast and pro-
ductive that in spite of rabbits, erosion,
strikes, go-slow, politics, overcrowded
cities and other things it keeps on supply-
ing food and wealth.
Mr. Somers went on to say that erosion
threatened 54 million acres in N.S.W.,
though whether this was in addition to,
or part of, the 60 million acres which
E. S, Clayton, N.S.W. Soil Conservator,
told the Rural Reconstruction Commis-
sion about in 1944 wasn’t clear. That
commission, after listening to the sober
statements of various soil experts from
all the States and carefully examining
what was being done both officially and
privately, then said:
The commission has come to the con-
clusion that the magnitude of the problem
is considerable, that the official stateme
are not exaggerated and that the people
Australia, as a whole, do not realise (a) tn
extent to which soil erosion is a very
menace to the future of large sectio
their country; (b) that if a national c;ala Y
is to be averted, drastic action is neces
sary within the next decade; and (c) >
failing better methods of land utihsati .
the menace will spread to even wider a
than are at present affected. „
Six years of the “next decade hav
already passed. It would be interes »
know what exactly has been , 0 |
apart from the issue now and then o
Ministerial statements which, meas
against the problem! itself, mean
Drought ruled in 1944 and iri Sydney
and other places the startled P P
large parts of their agricultural
ing in the sky and being blown out to
sea. Since then has come xceS ,
good seasons. Too good, becau
sive rains have washed tons an mOS t
more topsoil—some of it■ the sea
productive land in Australia j n
and into the beds of inland been far
this sense the wet years ha
more disastrous than the dry


PLAIN ENGLISH
Basic-wage Futility.
The weekly basic-wage is now at about
flying-saucer level; that is to say, no con-
jectures about it as a phenomenon are
regarded as too absurd.
Since the beginning of this year it will
have risen in three quarterly periods by
10s. in Sydney (now £7 25.), 11s. in Mel-
bourne (£7), 7s. in Queensland (£6 125.),
Bs. in Adelaide (£6 135.), 9s. in Perth
(£6 175.) and 7s. in Hobart (£6 135.). .11:
has gone up 10s. in each of the past two
years and is expected to make 15s. this
year. There is no foreseeable halt to the
process, and at the ruling rate of increase
it should reach to within speaking-
distance of £lO a week in a couple of
years’ time.
The A.C.T.U. has been trying to get
the Arbitration Court to anticipate this
rise and boost it to £lO a week forth-
with. The interim increase—the unions
wanted one declared of 30s. —has by
natural causes since the court hearing
began already amounted to about £1 a
week.
This superficial wage-lift is now
nothing but derisory to the mass of Aus-
tralian workers and housewives, as they
well knoy/. Since 1939 the basic-wage
(Sydney) will next month have risen from
£4 2s. to £7 25., roundly 73 per cent., and
the cost of living, according to the Com-
monwealth Statistician’s figures just pub-
lished, has risen in the same period by
62.4 per cent. That figure would have
to be increased if subsidised items were
reckoned at full prices. Nobody is much
better off since 1939, by the basic-wage
yardstick; though, of course, marginal
wage increases might correct this
approximation. The plain fact is that the
current level of national production is not
capable of furnishing better real wages
because it lags behind the working
potential of both men and machines, to
disregard the consumption potential
altogether.
Professor Copland has just issued an-
other emphatic warning on this point in
his address to the Junior Chamber of
Commerce in Melbourne. He sketches
other approaches to a breakdown, but
this absurd inflationary spiral is sufficient
warning in itself for the wage-earner.
The “S. M- Herald” has produced
statistics to show that this community’s
living standard is temporarily on a par
with that of U.S.A. and that these two
head the world list; but figures show
also that cost of living is now falling in
America and in most important
countries except Britain and Australia.
If £7 2s. today will buy only what
£4 2s. would buy in* 1939, the Australian
pound-note is now worth about 11s. 6d.
—and that certainly flatters it. It is be-
coming worth less and less every quarter.
Until the volume of goods and services
produced in return for wages increases
through harder work the £A will continue
to become worth progressively less pro-
gressively faster.
It is now perfectly plain that increases
in wages alone simply make the position
worse, and that to peg prices alone would
probably hasten a debacle.
Pensions for AIL
The Commonwealth Government’s
liabilities for “social services” are now
nearly £lOO million annually (even with-
out Mr. Chifley’s “free” medicine and
doctoring outlays), and Minister Spooner
told the hospital administrators’ annual
meeting last week that some compulsory
contributory scheme for old-age pensions
and other benefits will soon force itself
upon official attention.
It has been a long time achieving
forthright Ministerial acceptance. Last
September Mr. Chifley, as Prime
Minister, said he believed his party would
have to consider superannuation on
national and contributory scale to
guarantee an old-age pension for every-
body. But he qualified this by saying
that he could not propose it for the
[1949] elections, or before he had re-
ceived assurances of any actuarially
sound scheme from the Government’s
“experts”; and the superannuation he
contemplated was 255., with no reduc-
tion in the ruling rate of pension for
those who would qualify under a means
test.
The Liberal party was also planning
last year a superannuation scheme based
on regular contributions from em-
ployees, employers and the Government.
There is no doubt that industry would
have to aid the Treasury (which is to
say, the taxpayer) in any such universal
pension provision. Mr. Spooner’s re-
marks show that the Government is ob-
viously thinking on these lines in
considering a contributory scheme which
is also to be universal.
Vale Mackenzie King.
The British Commonwealth mourns
Mackenzie King, Liberal Prime Minister
of Canada for 21 years, five months and
21 days, with a break of five years in the
middle of his terms beginning with the
depression year of 1930. His period of
office was a record for the British Com-
monwealth, and his services were beyond
estimate. He was a little man, unimpres-
sive at first sight, no orator and no show-
man, but he was a worker without peer,
and a commonsense, practical thinker
who looked facts in the face and bumped
his head against no Stone walls. He set
a standard of businesslike government
which Australia could copy with ad-
vantage.
The mainsprings of his success lay not
so much in his ability as a Parliamen-
tarian, though it was admittedly great,
as in his capacity for looking at the
overall problems of a great and diverse
Dominion and reconciling the interests
of its widely-assorted elements. There
were periods, such as those in the initial •
years of the two world wars, when he
did the seemingly impossible in recon-
ciling the French-Canadians to Imperial
courses of actiojtr There were other
periods when he worked what seemed to
be industrial miracles, and others in
which he established complex relation-
ships with the United States, which might
have produced internal chaos if not
carried through with tact at the helm.
He established his international connec-
tions without disturbing the real balance
of relationships with the United Kingdom
and the other Dominions, to which he
was always unswervingly loyal and ready
to give never-failing assistance.
Thus in his time were established the
great metal industries, which were inter-
locked with United States industry, the
reorganisations of water-power and
Great Lakes navigation agreements and
boundary arrangements, with the joint
permanent defence committee and joint
military exercises which have brought
Canada and the United States as close
together as is possible without interfering
with either Canadian national status or
relationships with the rest of the British
Commonwealth.
Mackenzie King ruled Canada during
a period of immigration when the intake
of non-British blood was great and while
the west and north were beginning to
display their riches. But under his rule
these new populations were sensibly
organised and welded into the mass. He
saw his country evolve from the twi-
light of colonisation into the status
of a nation as great in territory as the
United States and not excelled in
potential anywhere. He did a fine job
in setting Canada on the road to becom-
ing one of the three or four front-rank
Powers of the world, as it undoubtedly
will be within half a century at the rate
at which it has been catching up. And
for his part in its growth, and in the
consequent growth of the strength and
the security of the British Common-
wealth, not only his homeland but every
citizen of the English-speaking world
owes his memory a debt of gratitude.
Doodlebuggfng Australia.
Taffy Owen writes;
Two dons will soon leave the cloistered
comforts of Sydney University to spend their
vacation trailing the latest types of gravity-
meters and seismographs across some of the
nastiest terrain in the outback. They are doing
not for the love of pelf (in which commodity
the Urn. is lacking) but to satisfy scientific
curiosity.
Prof. C. E. Marshall, now occupying the
chair of geology in Sydney, graduated at
Durham, England, and has hewed tons of coal,
not because he had to, but to gain first-hand
knowledge, not far from the seat of learning
which awarded him its doctorate.
Marshall followed that by acquiring United
States mines experience at Pittsburg, and then
had a look at things from another angle as
production engineer to the British Iron and
Steel Federation. In his spare time he has
gone on collecting miscellaneous information
of all sorts, as well as degrees and honors.
His companion in the trans-continental project
is Henry Thirlaway, also claiming Durham as
his Alma Mater and, later, Cambridge. Just
as Marshall is no armchair professor, so
Thirlaway is no mere “pure” mathematical
doodlebug; he holds first-class honors in
geology as well, and he was one of those who
convinced the British General Staff, during
World War 11, that radar would work.
Marshall resigned from the chair of geology
at Nottingham and came to Australia with
little inducement except the chance of doing
new work under fresh conditions, while
Thirlaway has been offered post after post
which would make his Sydney stipend look
like chicken-feed.
This well-balanced pair, each with a rare
capacity for real understanding of the scientific
jargon and appreciation of the problems of
the other, propose to travel more or less due
west from Brisbane, through the Central Desert
and on to the western coast.
After that they will probably return to the
Uw. to spend months translating the data
wnich they have obtained into reasonably
probable geological structures which, in turn,
may indicate the presence of valuable mineral
lodes or traps for petroleum or (as Prof. W. W.
Watts used to say) “what-not.”
Ihe Coal Board, with foresight, has supplied
cash to obtain the necessary instruments, but
tne most expensive of their up-to-the-minute
gadgets—a Worden gravitymeter—has been
supplied gratis by doodlebug-friend Mukenfuss,
with the help and blessing of the manufac-
In addition, a magnetometer has been
offered by Wolfson.
Transport is still needed, although a day after
their project was made public they were
promised one of their modest requirement of
two trucks. Offers of other forms of transport,
to enable them to do more work in less time,
would not be unacceptable.
Marshall and Thirlaway have outlined for
themselves a gruelling programme. They pro-
pose to set up test-stations at 10-mile intervals;
but they intend to cover critical areas by
detailed seismic and electrical surveys after
they have made their present reconnaissance.
One thing is certain. The information they
will bring back will not be colored by political
or company-promoting considerations; more-
over, it will be of inestimable benefit to each
one of a very promising team of young Aus-
tralian students who are now studying under
them.
The March of Crime.
At this time of year it is customary for
Police Commissioners to issue their*
annual reports listing the season’s crop
of crime, and for startled citizens to
write to the papers pointing to the
increase of this or that particular form
of law-breaking and demand that some-
thing be done about it. Whereupon old
ladies go fearfully to bed in the Sydney
blackouts and nervous young chaps keep
to the middle of the road, seeing in the
shadows lurking villains waiting to
denude them of the week’s pay by first
asking for a match.
It’s all very deplorable and upsetting,
but there is a brighter side, for the law
is not always asleep, and if it happens to
be absent when some citizen is getting his
head caved in and his pockets turned out
it is usually because the law can’t do
everything at once and is away stopping
a much more serious crime; sometimes
one which, if persisted in, would under-
mine the fabric of our social life.
Two instances of how the law was
able, at spots a thousand miles apart, to
come down heavily on particularly
nauseous offences were made public last
week. In the first it was discovered that
a company owning two cafes in Sydney
had had the temerity to establish a
poultry-farm in an outer suburb with
the idea of providing the cafe diners with
fried, poached, boiled or grilled eggs. In
the second it took the combined efforts
of a sergeant and two constables to
apprehend a couple of daring fellows
who bought peanuts from farmers with
the illegal idea of selling them to other
people.
The cafe people were convicted and
fined out of hand, it being obvious that
if cafes took to producing their own
eggs and supplying them in a cooked con-
dition to their customers without first de-
livering the eggs to the N.S.W. Egg Board
and then buying them back again, it
wouldn’t be long before the habit spread.
It would never do for an egg to escape
the Egg Board like this. You simply
can’t have an Egg Board if eggs are to
be allowed to run about at their own
sweet will, and the ingenuity which pro-
duced the now-famous definition of a
hen as an “adult, domesticated, female
fowl” would be entirely wasted.
Anyhow, the persons convicted of thus
using “adult, domesticated, female
fowls” for this fell purpose, refusing to
admit that an egg is an egg within the
meaning of the Act, actually appealed
against the conviction, and, until the
appeal judge gave his decision, every-
body eating eggs in the cafes concerned
did 50 with a reckless disregard of the
fact that they jpight be called upon to
declare all the eggs they’d consumed
since last May and identify the clean-
skins from the crook ones.
As with eggs, so with peanuts. You
can’t have people growing peanuts and
selling them to other people unless they
go through the Queensland Peanut Board.
People like this should remember that it
recently cost the British Government
nearly £25 million to grow a few bags
of peanuts out in East Africa, which
proves what a valuable article the peanut
is, and how necessary it is that before
little Tommy Jones can buy his packet of
peanuts from the itinerant vendor at the
football-match those peanuts should be
checked, counted, weighed, branded, ear-
marked and drafted by the Peanut Board.
And if it is necessary for the peace, order
and good government of the nation that
a peanut should have to receive official
blessing before being chewed, why should
an egg escape? Heaven knows why, but
some people seem to think this is a free
country!
The Havana Charter.
From Auckland: With the Geneva trade-
agreements and the Havana Charter sus-
pended like a sword of Damocles over
Empire trade. New Zealand business in-
terests are lining up alongside Australian
to defend their birthright as the overture
opens for the Torquay Conference, con-
vened for the end of September. What-
ever opinions are held at Government
level, business circles see the peril and are
trying to rouse Governments before it is
too late. Apathy is the biggest danger
as prosperity flows at all-time peaks, and
high-cost structures on both sides of the
Tasman are vulnerable to attack if pre-
ferential tariffs and economic defences
are let down.
In Maoriland, the Empire Industries
Association has been sounding the “fail-
in’’ and rallying business heads to per-
suade their Government to stall for time
when it’s asked, with others, to ratify the
charter at the big round-table conference.
At first Government leaders, preoccupied
with internal reforms in the retreat from
Socialism, wondered what all the fuss was
about, but gradually they woke up to
the reality of the danger.
In the post-war export boom, Maori-
land has leaned heavily on John Bull’s
market, and has had more eggs in one
basket than ever before. Wool, butter
and meat have been great moneymakers,
with no selling headaches, and N.Z. ex-
ports lately have been running close to
£l6O million a year, which is double the
figure of five years ago. For the time,
at any rate, it has paid the Dominion
handsomely to trade within the family,
and Britain has been doing fairly well,
too. It has been a highly profitable
partnership, which Maorilanders want to
preserve, if they can. They know how to
do business with the Old Firm, they’ve
given an undertaking that they’ll lift pro-
duction for that market, there are no
payment problems, and their sound in-
dustries aren’t scared of the competition.
But they don’t want to plunge into the
unknown and risk a trial of strength, from
scratch, with hard-working, ambitious
foreigners, on lower wages and other
standards, who could run away from
them. Their high-cost, 40-hour-five-day
week, hothouse economy wouldn’t have
a chance in such a contest, and their
expensive Welfare State couldn’t survive.
New Zealand values what it gained at
Ottawa, regards that as one of its main
pillars, and hasn’t forgotten its close call
back in the early ’thirties, when it was
nearly left with unsaleable exports on
its hands. The word “surpluses” has a
sinister sound in N.Z.
“Farm production in N.Z. is capable of
enormous expansion,” said W. N. Perry,
president of Federated Farmers, in mid-
July, when he warned cowspankers,
graziers and other food-producers that
they’d have to get busy exploring new
markets, but that didn’t mean they should
prepare to surrender their place as
Britain’s biggest food-supplier. His idea,
widely held in Maoriland, is that they
should keep an umbrella over their heads
while looking round for places to sell
any overflow.
The Cat and the Bag.
At the recent annual Sydney conference,
the A.L.P. executive at last revealed why
it had “withheld endorsement” from four
party members of the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly, two of whom at the ensuing
elections made good, one of them (Mr.
Geraghty) beating the official ticket. The
president’s account of the crime and
punishment, without a hearing, of these
members is highly instructive.
The executive was not satisfied, he said,
that at the election for the Legislative
Council on March 31, 1949, the four
“Labor” members recorded first-prefer-
ence votes for “Labor” candidates.
Then comes this little bit:
Each Labor voter at the election was
entitled to exercise his own choice as to
the Labor candidate for whom he would
record his first-preference vote.
Three Labor members indicated that they
desired to record votes for Mr. Wilson,
and their second-preference votes for
Messrs. Weir, Colborne and Cahill, and
would record their subsequent preferences
according to the suggestion of the executive.
An analysis of the result-sheet published
in the Government Gazette reveals that
Mr. Wilson received two first-preference
votes only, and on the exclusion of Mr.
Wilson on the seventh count each of these
votes was transferred to the voter’s second-
preference candidate, in one case to Mr.
Weir and in the other to Mr. Colborne
No ballot-paper with a second prefer-
ence for Mr. Cahill. These facts prove
that the Labor member who had indicated
that he desired to vote No. 1 for Mr.
Wilson and No. 2 for Mr. Cahill did
not do so.
By similar or analogous means the
executive has satisfied itself that the other
three Labor members concerned also failed
(Continued on next page.)


r
m
V.
'Vi
They satisfy In every way.
CRAVEN'A"
f-' v W
f: , v
/ -7
154
CARR ERA S
LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FO R~qTaL_IJLI
to carry out their obligation in relation
to the voting at that election.
Then the fun began, as can be per-
ceived from the official “Labor”
journal’s report of the discussion,
although—because, as Mr. Kenny said,
the matter was delicate —the report is
but sketchy:
Mr. Ramsay (Darlinghurst) asked
whether the four members had been brought
before the executive.
The Chairman : It was not possible,
because of the circumstances.
Mr. Denford: It is a pity the report
was not issued sooner. ITiey would not
have lost a lot of members in the leagues.
Mr. Hopkins, of Monaro (where one of
the rebels stood and won, unopposed by
the executive): He had been told influential
men were behind the refusal of endorse-
ments. Mr. Seifiert had not crawled to
these influential men in the Labor move-
ment. ■ , ,
Mr. McNally (Transport Workers):
Mr. Geraghty [the McGirr Government s
majority] should never be admitted to the
Labor movement again. He used every
method during the campaign to discredit
Labor. He even posed as the official
Labor carftlidate.
Mr. Ramsay: ’The statement read like a
court-martial. The executive acted on
rumor, hearsay and wishful thmkmg. it
had too much power. .
The Chairman: The decision was
reached with one of the executive dissen-
tient.
The McGirr party had a sharp run tor
its money at the elections. If this repor
had been allowed to see daylight before
the polls Mr. McGirr, with his policy of
political freedom, could have had no
doubts about what killed him.
POLITICAL POINTS
Any grumbles that might have been
expected when the United States Con-
gress came to consider Truman’s bill for
second-year assistance to the Atlantic-
pact countries have been stifled by events
in Korea, and both parties seem in the
mood to give the President whatever he
asks. In addition to the pact countries,
Greece, Turkey and Persia will receive
military aid, also several Asian and
Pacific countries, including Nationalist
China, which, in effect, means Formosa.
To “strengthen U.S. forces” the President
has asked for 10,000 million dollars. If
Uncle Joe sent his North Korean stooges
across the 38th parallel to see what Uncle
Sam’s reaction would be he’s now in the
process of finding out.
Calwell was on the beam when he
spoke of “member-States of the United
Nations, most of whom are living on the
charity of the American taxpayer,” offer-
ing only lip-service to U.N.O. and leaving
it to America to do the “paying and
dying” in Korea. He continued:
As far as Australia is concerned General
MacArthur got everything he asked for in
men, materials and other supplies from the
late John Curtin, Labor war-thne Prime
Minister. But I’m not so sure he will get
much support from the present Australian
Government.
Perhaps it was just as well that Mac-
Arthur was a diplomat as well as a
soldier; otherwise he might have em-
barrassed Curtin and Chifley by asking
for Australian troops to be sent outside
the limits of the Militia Hopscotch area.
Chifley, determined not to be hood-
winked, even by himself: “I do not de-
ceive myself that South Korea and North
Korea may not provide a very difficult
international situation.”
Last week the Immigration Depart-
ment refused Walter Cunningham,
Sydney secretary of the Eureka Youth
League, a passport to China —he had
allegedly received an invitation to the
Chinese Reds’ 29th birthday-party.
Immigration Minister Holt, announcing
this on Friday, said he had acted on
Security Service advice, and that there
was no doubt that Cunningham was
going abroad “to help further the inter-
national conspiratorial network of which
the Australian Communist party is a
part.” A batch of protesting telegrams
from fellow-traveller organisations in
various parts of the Commonwealth
reached the Minister within 24 hours of
the refusal of the passport, although no
mention had been made in the Press up
to that time. If there is anything in the
story that Ernie Thornton was relying on
Cunningham to take his warm underwear
to Peking it looks as though “Balance
Sheet” is in for a chilly winter.
At the weekend Security men were
looking for another Red —Bird, of the
Victorian Seamen’s Union, who was
missing from his usual perch. Elliott
(Sydney) and Connor (Brisbane) had
already been questioned by Security in
connection with their part in framing
their union executive’s recommendation
for a ban on arms and men for Korea.
“Labor’s” socialisation objective is so
unpopular with the electors since Chifley
gave them a sample of it in operation
that leaders of “the movement,” while
refusing to wipe it, are pretending that it
does not mean what it says. A.L.P ’s
new secretary in N.S.W., E. Wright, re-
porting to the Sydney annual conference,
said that some regional conferences re-
quested “a clearer interpretation” of the
“Red objective,” and that “the official
Scullin-Blackburn interpretation” had
been distributed. “Official,” is it? The
1921 Blackburn “interpretation” resolu-
tion, watering down the socialisation
objective, was not carried, has never been
added to the party platform, and the
1948 Federal conference (which only can
say yes or no to it) avoided giving a
decision on it.
As a proof of how “official” it is, the
Ships’ Painters and Dockers’ delegate at
the conference asked whether adoption
of the report quoted would mean adoption
of the “interpretation” of the socialisa-
tion plank. Reply got \£as: “Only the
Federal conference can interpret the
socialisation policy.” The delegate re-
torted that he would oppose the motion.
Whatever truth there may have been
in the rumors of revolt against Hollway’s
leadership of the Victorian Liberal-
Country party nothing came of them.
After a meeting of the party last Thurs-
day Hollway announced that the party
had authorised him to say that his leader-
ship was unchallenged. Next Tuesday a
committee appointed to consider adult
franchise will report its findings.
With the indisputable comment that
“fighting is a man’s job, not a boy’s,”
J, V. Stout, of the Melbourne Trades
Hall, has voiced the opinion that lads
under 21 should not be conscripted either
in peace or war, adding that “if they are
too young to have a vote, they are too
young to be conscripted.” That’s loose
thinking of the worst type ; the fact that
no training is considered necessary be-
fore a man is regarded as fit to cast a
vote is no argument against training the
youth of the nation to defend their coun-
try, Stout’s real grouch is that of official
“Labor,” not against the compulsory
training of 18-year-olds, but against any
compulsory training at all. In the two
world wars it was not the policy to send
anyone under 20 out of Australia, and
there is no suggestion in the present
scheme of sending 18-year-olds abroad to
fight; the idea is to have ’em trained for
the job by the time they are called upon
to do it.
Comrade Thornton was referred to in
B. 19/7/’5O as having come to Australia
under the auspices of the Big Brother
Movement; actually the dubious honor
belongs to the Dreadnought scheme. Both
organisations have a long record of good
deeds, and the majority of the lads they
have sponsored over the years, have been
a credit to them and to Australia.
Commerce Minister McEwen an-
nounced at the weekend that the services
of F. H. Cullen, chairman, and D. B.
Johnston, member, of the Australian
Wheat Board, had been “terminated,”
and that J, S. Teasdale and R. C. Tilt
take their places. Teasdale and Tilt have
been leaders of growers’ co-operatives in
W.A, and Victoria respectively. There
was an immediate yell of anger from
Victoria, with talk of “revolt” against
McEwen, a cable to Menzies and a tele-
gram to Fadden, describing the changes
as “political intrigue” and a “shocking
blunder.” All the trouble seemed to be
about Cullen, described as a Country-
party supporter and “wheatgrowers’
champion.” The Wimmera and Mallee
are threatened with “big protest” meet-
ings this week. The changes show pretty
clearly that when farmers believe these
marketingl boards to be “grower-con-
trolled” they’re wide of the mark.
McGirr intends to bring in an im-
portant constitutional reform when the
New South Wales Parliament meets
again. It must be important—he men-
tioned it in his policy speech, though till
then no one suspected that there was any
necessity for it. The great plan is an
amendment of the State Constitution to
provide that the life of the House of
Assembly can be extended only with the
approval of the people at a referendum.
At present the Constitution limits the life
of the Assembly to three years, but the
McGirr professes to fear that some day
a Government might by a simple amend-
ment of the Constitution vote itself a
longer term. There has never been any
suggestion from Opposition parties that
they desire a longer term. Could it be
that some of McGirr’s own colleagues
have been toying with the idea?
When a trade-union official in Mel-
bourne said that employers were partly
to blame for the “spread of Commun-
ism” an Employers’ Federation vice-
president bit and said it was like blaming
the engine-driver of a train for a brawl
in one of the carriages. Yet the trade-
union man was right; too many em-
ployers have taken on tradesmen who
they knew were involved in one of the
Communist key - men strikes which
stopped production in another employer’s
works. And every employer, in city or
country, who paid blackmarket wages is
another helper of the Communists.
Dan Mulcahy, M.H.R., is having a little
dispute with the party bosses. It isn’t a
matter of pubs or of attacks on ex-
p.-0.-w., but just the question of a busi-
ness deal. It appears that when the war-
time “Labor” Government, finding itself
with a couple of Jehovah’s Witnesses’
radio-stations at its disposal, passed the
licence of one of them, 2HD, to the
A.L.P., Mulcahy found some of the cash
necessary to put the station on its feet.
The outfit has since paid dividends on
a scale holders of goldmining shares dream
of, and the A.L.P. has managed to per-
suade outside shareholders —there was
only a handful of ’em—to sell their hold-
ings. But not Dan! He’s sticking to his.
When the matter was raised at the A.L.P,
conference Ferguson said it was a ques-
tion of price, “Mr. Mulcahy was abroad
at present. When he returned he would
be approached again, and if he did not
respond he would be reported to the con-
ference.” Surely this sordid haggling over
prices, so common a feature of the capi-
talist class, is not allowed to sully the
records of a Socialist organisation?
Bureaucracy received a deserved
knockback at Sydney Quarter Sessions
last week when Judge Holden upheld an
appeal against a small fine imposed on
Monterey Pty., Ltd., “for disposing of
eggs to a person other than the Egg
Marketing Board.” The company con-
cerned is the proprietor of several
restaurants in Sydney, and to supply, in
part, their requirements in poultry, eggs
and vegetables it runs a farm at Castle
Hill. Its offence consisted of using its
own eggs in the preparation of meals in
its restaurants. The judge said that the
intention of the Marketing of Primary
Products Act was that a poultry-farmer
who raised eggs for sale was to be bound
by its provisions, but he could not see
that the appellant company came within
its scope.
Tito’s reply to Cominform allegations
of Yugoslav “aggression” against her
neighbors—Moscow radio, the satellite
countries and the Sydney Communists’
paper made the accusation almost simul-
taneously—was an invitation to peace
movements all over the world to send
delegations to Eastern Europe to dis-
cover which countries, if any, are pre-
paring for war. It is not likely that the
Australian Peace Council will accept the
invitation. They know already; Moscow
has told them.
Principal speakers at the British Peace
Council include Jessie Street and the Red
Dean, but the chief drawcard will prob
ably be Soviet writer Ilya Ehrenburg
Woolly-headed fellow-travellers will prob-
ably take his presence as proof of the
Soviet’s desire for peace ; clearer thinkers
will see in it final evidence of the phony
nature of this “peace” council. *
One day last week Melbourne “Herald”
came out with a featured article on
rabbits, pointing out that the country
probably carried 400 million of them, and
that, although rabbits and their skins
earned £lO million last year, they cost
£lOO million to produce in eaten pastures
erosion and other damage and control
costs. In the same issue a Melbourne
wholesaler advertised “Fat rabbits.
Fattened on the very best pastures.”
Victoria is starting a “£600,000 drive
against rabbits.” There’ll need to be a
drive against public apathy first.
Privy Council’s judgment in a Sydney
insurance company’s test case on which
many workers’-compensation decisions or
actions depended was smothered up in
cabled Press reports. The case, nomi-
nally Slazengers v. Burnett, was one in
which an employee died in a tram on
the way to work, and the insurance com-
pany appealed to N.S.W. Supreme Court
against an award to the relatives by the
Workers’ Compensation Commission, and
from the Supreme Court, which upheld
the commission, to the Privy Council.
The P.C. has upheld the argument that
death from natural causes had nothing
to do with his employment, and any such
construction of a workers’-compensation
policy would be equivalent to a free
general life-insurance policy within the
cover for compensation from death or
injury while at work.
At a Methodist conference in Brad-
ford (Eng.) a Dr, Soper, superintendent
of a London mission, who made a good-
will tour of Australia about three years
ago, said “I would rather see the world
overrun by Communists than plunged
into a third world war.” A prime ex-
ample of muddled thinking, for there
are millions who would sooner die in a
war against Communism than live in a
world where;even thinking wouldn’t be
free and even religion would have to
wear a strait jacket.


SociM-
SERVICE
budget
OEFENCe
; aviu
Service
CWU.D
l^^uoyi
“MORE!”


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Becks”: A parson recently described
as brazen the lasses who parade in scanty
bathing-costumes before “a panel of
judges” in the hope of winning a trip
abroad plus a wagonload of etceteras as
Miss Australia, Miss Universe or some
similar title, I don’t agree with the
brazen, but although I’m an admirer of
the female form divine and have
observed it in its tens of thousands on
beaches in every State of the Common-
wealth, and in varying states of near-
nudity ranging from the neck-to-knee
costumes of a generation ago to the next-
to-nothing wisps of last summer, I can’t
for the life of me see the necessity for
a Miss Australia aspirant having to pose
in bathers to prove her bona fides to the
title. These shows started off as beach-
girl competitions, and as long as they
were only that the custom made sense,
but the present trend is to choose a girl
who, besides -having what it takes as
regards looks and figure, also scores
points for intelligence, culture and com-
monsense. When the winner goes to
Britain she is ballyhooed as an
“ambassadress” for Australia. She
doesn’t parade around London in
bathers; she doesn’t wear beach togs to
Ascot or the Royal garden-party. She
makes all her appearances in well-chosen
clothes suitable to the occasion. Why the
heck does she have to be seen in a
bathing-costume to qualify for entrance?
Is it just because the judges like to see
’em that way?
* * * *
“Sackfair”: When the general fore-
man on the Cheops job began pegging-
out the Great Pyramid, I’ll warrant he
checked the right-angles by measuring
three units along one side, four along the
other, and adjusting both until they met
five units marked across the hypotenuse.
In comparatively recent times—a mere
2500 years ago—a Greek was credited
with discovering the method, and the
theorem received his name. Today,
theory-men talk of checking a square by
“the Pythagoras theorem” ; practical men
know it only as the “three, four and five”
or “six, eight and ten.” The trainee on
our job gets on well with both his teacher
at Tech, and the foreman at work, but
they pull him in different directions.
Arriving before the foreman one morn-
ing he decided to have a go at pegging
out the garage—“ Just as a bit of experi-
ence.” He had the corner “squared-in”
when the Left Bower turned up. The
old chap nodded approvingly, but put in
a caution: “You’re sure you’ve got that
corner ‘square’?” “Oh, yes.” The
answer was full of confidence. “I
checked it with the Pythagoras theorem.”
For a moment Old Bill looked as if he’d
been thumped in the solar plexus; his
mouth flew open and his bewildered eyes
darted about as though in search of this
strange instrument. Then he pulled him-
self together abruptly. “Look, son”—his
voice was severely gentle—“them new-
fangled ideas might be all right in the
Tech., but on a job it pays to stick to
the good old-fashioned ways. You just
try that corner with a ‘three, four and
five.’ ”
** # * V
“K.R.”: “I know I felt mad,” wrote
Will Lawson in his diverting little sketch
(B. 19/7/’5O). No need to explain the
meaning of the first five words nowadays ;
but the editor of an 1865 English edition
of Artemus Ward felt bound to do so.
He included footnotes to explain local
or peculiar Americanisms (not, of course,
including Ward’s many burlesque and
illiterate spellings). Where Ward wrote
“Occashunly they git mad,” the editor
appends the note: “A common expres-
sion in the U.S., used in the sense of
angry, vexed, as T was quite mad at
him’; ‘he made me mad.’ ” Other ex-
planatory notes deal with “tomato,”
“Snakes alive!” “boss,” “cocktail” and
“bully”—all now understandable by any
Englishman. However, English and
American are distinct languages. Pscar
Wilde once wrote that “we have really
everything in common with America
nowadays except, of course, language,”
Wilde’s remark was probably “rote Sar-
casticul,” but, as conclusive proof, a cable
from Korea last week, telling of infiltra-
tion by the Reds, said it was done by
“Communists speaking American.”
* * * *
“Clooter”: Others may have their
doubts about the result of the Korean
affair, but not I. Indeed, I can’t see how
anyone at all familiar with the resources
of the United States can have a moment’s
trepidation. It’s as plain as the nose on
my face that the American troops now
struggling to hold the North Koreans
back are just that and no more —a hold-
ing force designed to contain the
aggressors until the full weight of Ameri-
can strength is brought to bear. There
is, it seems, some baseless fear among
the American people that things might
not go too well, yet on every hand, in
their newspapers, their moving-pictures,
their radio, is convincing evidence of
American invincibility. Not to labor the
matter further, what chance have the
N.Ks. against a country which, at any
moment, can unleash upon them the
combined strength and fury of Superman,
Dick Tracy, Captain Marvel, Joe
Palooka, Tarzan* Hopalong Cassidy, the
Phantom, Mandrake and the rest of that
astounding team who’ve never yet been
beaten and, please Heaven, never will be.
He ak *
“Moa”: In “Service Department”
(B. 19/4/’5O) The Bulletin answered
a questioner about the expression
“the real McCoy.” Please let me
add some facts which are dinkum,
pukka gen—in short, the real Mackay.
The Americans claim many firsts,
but I won’t let them have that one.
Their real McCoy is simply a mispro-
nunciation of the Scots phrase the real
Mackay. My great-grandmother used
the expression ; she was born in 1790,
and the phrase is still in constant use to-
day. No one seems to know who or what
Mackay was. Perhaps he was the owner
of a distillery or a secret still whose pro-
duct was hailed with lip-smacking appre-
“We always like to demonstrate our shampoos .”
ciation as the real Mackay. Perhaps he
was a piper or singer, or a speaker whose
eloquence was approved as we might
now say “Ah, that’s the real Churchill.”
But he certainly had nothing to do with
any American boxer, for the Mackay
phrase was ancient before McCoy was
born. Other Americanisms have been
copied from Scotland. Ballyhoo is just
the old Scots bellihooin’, and baloney is
the Scots ballerny, both with the same
meaning as their mispronounced Ameri-
can version. So next time you hear some-
one say itV the real McCoy tell them it
isn’t. Will you, please?
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Sometimes these caption-
writers forget themselves. In a George-
street (Sydney) photographic company’s
show-window are sundry large pictures
of various Australian activities. Under
the generic caption “Meet Your Fellow-
"It boils much quicker this Way.”
Australians” you are shown shearers,
miners, tree-fellers, etc., at work, each
carrying a descriptive title. Then, high up
at the rear, two small girls are shown be-
hind a crop of large cabbages, and the
caption reads “Vegetable-minded Young
Australians.” I’ve often thought that
about old and young Australians, but I
wouldn’t be game to come right out in
the open with it.
* * * *
“Casca”; The sketch of a man paying
a large account in singles (B. 5/7/’5O) is
reminiscent of China’s last year under
Nationalist rule. By August, 1948, the
Chinese currency had depreciated to 12
million to the U.S. dollar, so the Govern-
ment converted to a new currency, the
gold yuan, starting off again from one.
Inflation soon commenced and beat all
previous records hollow, and by June,
1949, the last-known quote was 500
million to the American dollar. For its
bi-monthly payroll, the American E.C.A.
office in Canton used rice-bags to carry
from the bank bundles of notes of which
the lowest denomination was GYIOO,OOO.
By the end of June the gold yuan
currency disappeared altogether, the
Kwangtung Provincial Bank having dis-
covered that the notes could be sold at
a profit to the less sophisticated Chinese
of the interior. In Hong Kong early last
year I was sitting with a group of Aus-
tralian visitors, and ordered a round of
drinks. When one of the visitors insisted
on paying the call, an official of the Trade
Commissioner’s office said “Let him ; he’s
got more millions than you.” I rep r ,
“I’ll bet he hasn’t. In my table drawer in
Canton I have, for current expense?
about eighty million dollars.” I had to ’
In real money worth about a fiver'
“F.S.”: Mildura is likely to have the
best provincial gallery in Victoria n
began with the presentation by the la?
R. D. Elliott of his collection of Orpens
as well as a heap of pictures by Aus-
tralian artists. Mildura had no gallery
to house them, but now it is in the market
for Rio Vista, the spacious home built in
1891 by W. B. Chaffey, the father of the
fruit industry. Robert Chatfey, son of
W. 8., has no objection, and the Govern-
ment is sympathetic to providing half the
£60,000 required for the purchase and
reconditioning of the historic mansion,
* * * *
“A.E.S.”: Telling colors by touch (B.
28/6/’50)? A dozen or so years ago,
reading of a man who claimed that
faculty, we decided to try it out. Mum
blindfolded me and handed me six differ-
ent pieces of cloth; I named a color at
once for the first five, but hesitated at
the sixth. Mum asked “Light or dark?”
and I replied “Light.” When the band-
age was removed I found I had named
the five correctly and the sixth was a
pale-blue, I’ve never tried it since; per-
haps I’m scared of spoiling my average.
* * * *
“Bo” greets a bi-centenary:
Two hundred years ago next Friday there
died in Leipzig Johann Sebastian Bach, “to
whom,” Schumann said, “music owes almost
as great a debt as a religion owes to its
founder.” For 200 years before him there had
always been Bachs prominent in the musical
life of their native Thuringen, in the heart of
Lutheran Germany—they were the most exten-
sive family in musical history. In Johann
Sebastian the whole musical genius of his tribe
crystallised. Those who argue against the
belief that inbreeding saps a family’s intellectual
strength have a strong case in the Bachs.
Brother often married sister, and Johann Sebas-
tian himself married his cousin Maria Barbara,
and the union produced, in a family of seven,
two musicians of fine talent: Wilhelm Friede-
mann and Karl Philipp Emanuel. Johann
returned from one musical tour with his Prince-
employer to make the shocking discovery that
his wife was dead. His subsequent marriage
was to the devoted Anna Magdalena Wulkens,
daughter of a Court trumpeter. She bore him
13 children, among the nine sons being Johann
Christian, known as the London Bach, also a
composer of great merit, who took up residence
in England.
It is strange to reflect, now that his work
has been assessed, that for three-quarters ot
a century after his death Bach’s compositions
were almost completely forgotten. In 1829
the 20-year-old Mendelssohn gave a perform-
ance of the “St. Matthew Passion,” and then,
from the dust, began the great task of dredging.
This didn’t begin in earnest till the centenary
of the master’s death, when the Bach Gesset-
schaft was formed. For 50 years ten editors
labored on the great task of collating ana
editing his colossal output, which in the en
compassed 60 volumes of all forms of mus
except opera. What he wrote has influence
all music since that first discovery, andl wi
go on influencing it. Of sturdy, pious st >
church music looms large in his output, fho e
he wrote plenty of secular music. Like Han >
who was born in the same year as him
not far distant, he was blind for s °me y t
before his death —someone has remarked
the only things he had in common with
composer of the “Messiah” were their
birth-year and that they were victims w .
same English surgeon who u ~// cc J nr id’s
operated to cure their affliction. The
most classic understatement was Bacns
appraisal of the tremendous labors to
he had unremittingly applied himse.f _i°
a century as organist—the greatest tu . djn g
has known —composer and teachei (,
all his own children’s musical education;,
worked hard.”
BASIC VIEWPOINTS.
“The countries with the highest number of cinema
seats for every thousand people are Monaco (190)
and Australia (182). America has only 83.”
Strange that two gambling retreats,
Australia and small Monaco,
Should have, per thousand head, most seats
For watching flickers in the darko;
But films, on luck’s receding tide,
Are substitutes for suicide.
Your fortune falls, on some false foal,
Or raked in by some croupier.
Dick Powell still can do your role,
Or Humphrey Bogart make your play:
Thus, in the Plaza, State or Roxy,
One casts one’s life, and dice, by proxy.
But here’s the strangest thing of all:
America, the first film nation,
Jacks half of our proportional
Theatrical accommodation.
You’d think they’d feel it worth the trouble
To visit us, and see things double.
Yet, though our calling, open spaces
Speak to the film-starved New York streets,
“We may not have your famous faces,
But we have twice as many seats,”
No wonder Yankees often wonder
What sort of folk we are, Down Under!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Jasby”: Those who blame the Bikini
atom-bomb for the abnormally wet
winter (B. 19/7/’5O) are merely the up-to-
date representatives of a school of
thought which existed long before they
were born. In the late 1920’s there were
plenty of people who were not at all sur-
prised when sudden deluges and tropical
downpours set everyone complaining that
the seasons were out of joint —what else
could you expect when all those new-
fangled wireless-waves were cluttering up
the atmosphere and upsetting the
weather? During World War One I
knew an old Irish beldam whose
comment on a wet winter was “Shure an
it’s only natural with all those big guns
they’ll be Bring off over in France.
She was probably doing no more than
repeat what her grandparents had _ said
with a knowing shake of the head back
in Napoleon’s time, and what their great-
greats had been saying ever since the dis-
covery of gunpowder. I’ve no doubt
there were wise old Saxons who ascribed
the wet winter of 1066 to the effect on
the atmosphere of southern England of
the terrific storm of arrows loosed at the
battle of Hastings.
$ * * *
“B A. Ker”: If people like “Kelms”
(B. i2/7/’5O) took the chips off their
shoulders Australia would be a pleasanter
place. I’ve been in the building trade
all my life, but nobody has more admira-
tion than I have for the fellow battling
to build his home. I’m not going to toot
my own bugle, but there are people who
might testify to a little practical assist-
ance rendered gratis. Nor are all trades-
men demanding a fiver a day for week-
end work. If I complete a full week for
mv regular boss and he asks me to work
over the weekend, both he and I know
that the payment will be as set down by
the Arbitration Court—overtime rates.
But if I undertake to work, elsewhere on
a Saturday I do it for one of two reasons:
to help a fellow who is stuck or because
I can use that extra money. To charge
overtime rates under those conditions
smells too much like blackmarket tactics
to appeal to me. As for those profes-
sional secrets” —I have never refused
advice to anybody who asked for it or
looked as though he wanted to know;
nor shall I ever descend to such childish-
ness. Only once have I regretted helping
an amateur home-builder. He completed
his home, lived in it until he found a
poor devil desperate enough to pay a
conscienceless price, then moved back
into a garage and started in to do the
same thing again.
* * * *
“Villefair”: Slogans like “The clothes
on the line by nine o’clock” won’t sell
arty washing-machines around our way.
At one time the family washing was a
leisurely ritual that ended around about
noon, but that was before Mrs. New-
comer arrived. She triumphantly, with
malicious aforethought, hung her last
sheet at 15 minutes to 11. It was a chal-
lenge that could not be dismissed. The
following Monday Mrs. Emoh Ruo
soundly walloped her by four tea-towels
and a pair of vivid pyjamas. It was a
staggering blow to Mrs. Newcomer, but
not a knockout. Just seven days later her
challenge to the neighborhood again
floated triumphantly—at 17 minutes past
nine. From then on the fight settled down
to a bitter, merciless struggle. For a
brief Monday Mrs. 12a flaunted her
ensign at 27 past eight, but she went
down fighting beneath Mrs. Wywurry’s
“How do you expect to get your temperature down with THAT going?"
12 past. Mrs. Emoh Ruo pushed a stout
peg, but her nine minutes to eight went
by the board before Mrs. Newcomer’s
seven-fifteen. When rain stopped play
last Monday the pegs-drawn scores stood
at: Mrs. Newcomer first, Mrs. 12a second
and Mrs. Wywurry third; Mrs. Emoh
Ruo also washed. But there is a hint
of foul play. The sparks shooting over
Mrs. Newcomer’s roof on Sunday night
might have been coming from the bath-
heater, but they certainly seemed to be
coming from her copper-chimney.
* ■ * * *
“Zake”: The subservient attitude
which Press advertisers adopt to the
tyranny of the Grin and its concomitant,
relaxed comfort, can be overdone. One
ad. for somebody’s soap carries an illus-
tration of a bewchus young thing (rear
view of shoulders) languidly lolling in a
bath of water, her back against the batk
of the bath and her arms resting along
its side flanges, the inevitable dental smile
proclaiming her complete satisfaction
with the product. Now, anyone with any
sense who gets into a bath in mid-winter
sits bolt upright, avoiding the still-icy
parts of the bath itself as one would the
“But, dear, you disliked the one I bought last Week so much I just
HAD to get another."
plague. If there is one thing guaranteed
to wipe the toothy grin off in a flash it is
to have your nether portions registering
around the century and to touch by
accident with any of your top-half a junk
of porcelained steel of Antarctic tem-
perature.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: My old friend the Sultan
of Johore is expecting to become a daddy
again, the sultana being a former Miss
Marcella Mendl, of Rumania. The
Sultan is 72, and it is difficult to keep
track of his domestic affairs, but he
is well remembered in Australia for
the gold-studded teeth he displayed
in Melbourne during Cup week when he
was a comparatively young man. Un-
like Seretse Khama, he has had no trouble
with his subjects over his matrimonial
affairs. They are proud of his prowess
in this direction; it reminds them of the
good old days of the ancient sultans
when the main sport of the young bloods
about the court was breaking into the
royal harem—the price of detection being
decapitation. I have pleasant recollec-
tions of the old boy and can claim I
helped to make his fortune for him. His
chief source of revenue when I was in
Singapore was the gambling farms of
Johore. On my first visit I had astound-
ing luck, I backed the number “four,”
struck a run and came away with 80
dollars, convinced I had found an easy
way to fortune. I returned the follow-
ing Sunday and backed “four” once more,
but it didn’t turn up once. I lost mv
80 dollars, plus another 80, plus all tire
Siamese solid silver ticul buttons with
which my tunic was fastened —the Sultan
thoughtfully provided pawnshops for
persons in my position. Still, he was a
generous winner. Under a State regula-
tion I was entitled to a free dinner at
his best hotel and was handed my fare
back to Singapore when I shook the dust
of his sultanate off my feet for ever.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Times have changed since the
reign of Edward VI. In those rude days
even children drank small beer with their
meals, and it was an offence to solicit
or induce the King’s lieges to abstain
from alcoholic drink. The statute is
apparently still in existence, and it
troubled the mind of a Melbourne police
magistrate recently when it came out in
evidence that a youth had been persuaded
to take the pledge. The magistrate
seemed to remqpiber having heard of it
somewhere, and after the case he got in
touch with the United Licensed Vic-
tuallers’ Association. That august body
told him that it had never been part of
Victorian law, though it had been in the
English statute-books. It appears that the
royal coffers were keenly interested in the
liquor trade and the beer industry had to
be encouraged, so it had actually been
made a penal offence to encourage the
habit of abstaining.
* * ♦
“Bagot”: Handwriting characteristics
(B. 28/6/’50)? I know a chap who chal-
lenged a Perth newspaper’s ruling on the
ancient problem “that man’s father is
my father’s son,” and promised a charity
donation if his own solution was wrong.
He used his normal handwriting, but gave
a fictitious name and address. The paper
made a feature story of the “mysterious
correspondent” and called upon him to
make good his promise. Eventually my
friend admitted defeat and sent his dona-
tion, but not before reporters had been
positively assured by three banktellers
that the letter had been written by a
woman.
* * * *
“Tom”: Though no Australian wine has
yet become known to fame by the name
of the district producing it, at least one
wine of another Dominion has attained
such celebrity (B. 12/4/’5O). This is
Constantia, which comes from the Cape
Peninsula in South Africa. It originated
on the Groot Constantia estate, about 12
miles from Cape Town.. The mansion
house is now a museum, but the ancient
vineyards still flourish. In the eighteenth
century Constantia was regarded as one
of the best dessert wines. It was a
favorite wine of Sheridan; Napoleon
asked for it on his death-bed; Jane
Austen referred appreciatively to it in
one of her novels.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: A very ancient
citizen who got his call the other day
was always glad to talk about Dickens
and Scott; his knowledge of them seemed
strange in a man who, a relic of the old
days of common illiteracy, could read
simple phrases only with difficulty and
scarcely sign his name. The greatest
kindness anyone could do for this old
fellow was to read him chapters from
his favorite authors. He had gained his
knowledge of them from the “penny
readings,” once a part of the activities
of every parish in England ; all the village
usually attended, and the parish poor-
funds, besides the culture of the
people, were assisted. Parsons were
glad to secure young people with elo-
cutionary skill, and many a stage star
graduated from the penny readings. The
institution died with the growing ability
of the masses to read for themselves.
* * * *
“Qld Crab”: I told my s.rW. Queens-
land class of 62 youngsters to choose
their cultural pleasures wisely, particularly
in music. The local radio-station paged
me in their next “Sunday Request”
session as requesting “The Tennessee
Waltz,” an amazing vocal gem sung with
the mouth shut. I have 62 “suspects.”
* * * *
“L. de R.”: A striking commentary on
the spiralling of prices is contained in
the Melbourne “Herald” of 1871. In that
year some of the principal dining-houses
in Bridge-street, Ballarat, reduced the
charge for dinner, to sixpence, including
roast turkey. The tart editorial comment
was that sixpence had been a common
charge for years in Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The classic retort to a back-
seat driver was made recently four miles
from Echuca (Vic.). En route from Mel-
bourne to Albury the husband-driver had
listened to his wife’s comments on his
driving in grim silence. When she said
“I think you are driving a little too fast,
dear,” he stopped the car, got out and
went off hiking. Eventually realising that
she had indeed been deserted, she asked
the assistance of passing motorists and
a police search for hubby began. Finally
the lady was driven back to Melbourne ;
the husband arrived by train the follow-
ing morning.
* * * *
“Pawang”: A horrible tale comes from
the Swaziland High Court of a white man
conniving with native witchdoctors in the
ritual murder of a boy “to placate the
gods and bring rain.” As they were pour-
ing their grisly libation , the boy
screamed: “Even though I’ve looked
after your donkeys, you’ve killed me.”
Though it would have been in the direct
tradition of the native scorcerer it wasn’t
in that of the white man, who, judging
by his name, was a Middle European.
Yet it isn’t so long ago that it would have
been in his direct tradition. The
sacrifice of a passing stranger and the
pouring of his blood over the fields to
stimulate the crops remained a respectable
practice well into the Christian era in
parts of Europe.
A POSER.
“In a Melbourne court) case in which a golfer un-
successfully sued another for damages arising from
an alleged hit by a ball, Judga Mitchell said some
players might describe an arc and land anywhere
between 8 o’clock and 9 o’clock. The average golfer,
he said, is not a Joe Kirkwood, but mediocre.”
I’m no bogey-slayer,
In fact, just a player.
I swing and I hope for the best.
One minor defection
I own to: direction;
My ball might go east, south or west.
And as I gaze after
The thing, there comes laughter,
Quite brutal; then someone will bark:
“Well, stiffen the lizard!
Isn’t he just a wizard—
He’s made it describe quite an arcl”
The pros, that I’ve followed!
Advice that I’ve swallowed!
The tomes on the game that I’ve readl
The various stances,
The grip that enhances
One’s chances, the “Down with your head!”
Yet in all this endeavor
I never—no, never!—
Heard any such pithy remark
That if I deflected
It might be expected
My pill would describe me an arc!
My style, very plainly,
Is somewhat ungainly
While making approaches, it’s true.
Ten strokes from the bunker
I’ve possibly sunk her.
My chipping is something to view.
But here I’m remarking:
I never do arcing—
When I’m on the fairway, I mean.
That phase I’m reserving,
My pals are observing,
For when I’m at work on the green.
I bash with great keenness,
And hit ’em with cleanness—
Except for the grubbers. I may
Slice a few on occasions,
Inflicting abrasions
On players two fairways away.
Still, it’s comforting, plainly,
To know one is mainly
An “average” golfer. But mark!
How, when later imbibing,
Would one be describing
The ball that described one an arc?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Simmo”: Humping the curse near
Banbury (W.A.), the Count and I found
a pick and shovel. “These might come in
handy some time,” remarked the Count,
so we added them to our swags. Thirty-
two months later we were strolling over
the Atherton Tableland. One evening,
with a storm gather-
ing and our tucker-
bags whipping
empty in the wind,
we were hungrily
eyeing some
pigeons perched
on a bough. A
flash of lightning
struck the tree, there
was a cloud of
feathers and giblets,
and two bird s,
plucked, drawn and
roasted, fell at our
feet. Each taking one in hand, we
sampled it. “No salt,” pronounced the
Count. “No stuffing,” said I. Mindful
of the blowfly menace, we buried the
birds on the spot. As we repacked the
pick and shovel, the Count remarked
thoughtfully, “I thought they’d come in
handy some time!”
« * * *
“Horseless Horseman”; There are few
better-known Riverina droving personali-
ties than Mrs. Ray, of Hay (N.S.W.).
During the past 17 years she and her
troupe of 14 crossbreds have led millions
of sheep across the ’Bidgee bridge beside
her home for a fee of “ten-bob a mob.”
The troupe, bossed by a knowing, 17-
year-old Suffolk ewe named Topsy, is
trained to assemble at a whistle, and, at
the head of the mob, they follow their
mistress across to the other river bank,
where, at a given command, the troupe
forms up to watch the drover’s mob
march past before returning home. Re-
placements to the flock come as newborn
lambs donated by appreciative drovers;
and, shorn annually, the pets die of old
age in the service. Mrs. Ray claims that
Merinos have no sense, and that Romneys
and Suffolks are the most intelligent
breeds. Lately, when the Waradgery
shire objected to the lady’s flock loitering
by the bridge, and ordered their removal,
all Hay took up arms. The council not
only withdrew its order-of-the-day, but
formally acknowledged the great public
service given by the town’s feminine per-
sonality and her team of decoys.
♦ ♦ * *
“Kelms”; I won’t have it that “the
emotional state of an eyeless man can be
gauged just as accurately as that of a
normally-visioned man” (B, 28/6/’50);
nor, I think, would “Curate’s Egg” if
he’d known a certain major under whom
I served for a time. The first indication
of his rising choler was the way that
bloke’s eyes stuck out and flashed. You
could almost see sparks jumping from
them, and they dominated his expression
even after the rest of his face turned
purple. Same with a horse! I’ve vivid
memories of a nag coming for me with
bared teeth, but it was the eyes that struck
fear into my soul. They were wicked,
and in them I saw all the viciousness of
that equine mind. Has “C.E.” ever been
attacked by a dog, or been threatened by
one on a chain? Those eyes are not
expressionless. Fiction-writers speak of
the dripping or foam-flecked jaws of a
mad dog. But it’s the eyes, the dreadful,
hate-filled, venomous, glowing orbs which
haunt the dreams of the man it might
have killed. A cat’s eyes vary in ex-
pression in daylight and darkness. They
must, if only for the physical change
that takes place.
* * ♦ ♦
“Old Bushman”: Nor’-Westralia has
no monopoly of dead marines (B.
28/6/’5O). In outback eastern Australia
they’re everywhere along old fence-lines,
creek- and river-banks, in the middle of
plains, scrubs, plateaus and the beds of
dried-up swamps ; and even in the remote,
roadless Cape York Peninsula I’ve come
on old “square-face” containers which
were the only reminder of human civili-
sation for miles. All Queensland is, of
course, first-class dead-marine country,
but I’ll back western N.S.W. for old glass
containers and queer models. From Fort
Grey through to Canally you find colors
and designs no longer in use today; but
the Paroo track and the road to Ivanhoe
assay the highest. Even between the
Lower Darling and the Murray, where the
whipstick, spinifex and green Mallee is
almost too thick to ride through, you
come on bottles —old-fashioned red, green
and blue bottles dropped by forgotten
bushmen and pioneers—the one article
man leaves behind him which withstands
decay and alone remains to tell of past
human presence.
* * * ♦
“Sally Jane”: The Bourke parrot, one
of the few species of both diurnal and
nocturnal habit, appears to have survived
both foxes and trappers. Explorer Sir
Thomas Mitchell, who discovered the
bird, was so impressed by it that he in-
cluded its discovery in the tale of his
“That magnetic bumper-bar collects all the loose spare-parts ."
jaunt down the Bogan-Darling water-
ways and named it in honor of the
Governor. The bird’s beauty, plus its
ground-feeding habit, made it the prey
of trappers, and it had not been seen in
the back country for many years. Be-
side the Bogan (not far from where
Mitchell first recorded it) we heard by
night a soft cbitter-chatter going on.
Torchlight did not suffice to con-
firm the color scheme, but daylight and a
slice of luck did. We came upon five of
them, greenish-brown to buff, pink-
breasted and blue-shouldered, feeding
“ Thanks , old chap—that will be deep enough .”
upon berries of low-growing lignum in
the early dawn. Maybe high, wages and
good seasons have combined to give this
rare bird a chance.
* * * *
“Kelms”: “Cocky” as a name for
farmers (B. 28/6/’5O) originated in the
days when farming was all hard work
and little pay. After a lifetime spent at
the game the early settlers could
generally become established enough to
be able to decide whether they’d pro-
duce sheep and be sheep-farmers, or
wheat and be wheat-farmers. But for
the first 40 years the main product of the
farms were thousands of cockatoos. They
were dubbed cockatoo-farmers, and the
name held.
* * • *
“Herbert Dawson”: What slim-waisted
critters those W.A. carpet-snakes must
be (B. 17/6/’5O) if a swallowed mouse
can make any sort of a bulge, much less
one sufficient to hold up traffic between
rafter and roof! The carpet-snakes and
rock-pythons of Queensland don’t lose
their streamline for any cargo less than
a couple of fowls or a possum, and I
understand that it takes a hefty wallaby
to put a big northern worm out of action
sufficiently to make him dependent on
gastric juices to straighten things out, as
it were Shot a big mulga snake a few
years ago which, though sluggish in
movement, could get around. It was only
after his execution that we noticed he
had several bulges along his body, sug-
gesting hen’s eggs. Something thin poking
out of his mouth, however, called for
the pressure of a boot while someone
pulled the slain gent.’s tail at the other
end. Out, tail-first, came a slender
wasted-looking snake which, after careful
measurement, proved to be an inch-and-a-
half longer than the outside bloke. Hence
the bulges. I long ago read of a method
of catching pythons on the Malayan
Peninsula which may still be in use. Two
pigs were tied up short on each side
of a stake fence where the space between
the stakes was sufficient to let a big
snake through. The long bloke, having
swallowed one pig, would poke through
the fence sufficiently far to grab the
second course. Then with thctt trifle
shoved down the hatch he would find
himself anchored fore and aft and
generally “sitting pretty.”
•** * *
“Old-timer”: It wasn’t a year like this,
but one when paddocks and stock-routes
were bare, and old Mac had taken his
400 ewes, his dog and horse, swag and
gear, and wandered forth upon the roads
to see what the old girls could find. There
wasn’t any grass, but there were some
dead saffron thistles, an occasional
sandalwood and Argyle apple, whose
boughs could be broken down for feed,
and if, by night, an occasional sheaf or
two vanished from a haystack, there was
no evidence by morning, for those ewes
even fought over the hayband. Thus it
was that, with 382 of them still walking,
Mac reached the Avoca, which still had
a trickle in it, and by the bridge he found
a Roads Board man who’d just made
camp and was about to begin poisoning
rabbits. Mac let the ewes drift along the
river, where there was a bit of water-
weed, and went to have a yarn with the,
poisoner. Beside the tent were two bags
of apples, and on a board shelf nailed
to a tree a small bottle of powdered ,
strychnine. “I put that there for safety,”
explained the poisoner. “Keep it in the
one place like that an’ y’ can’t get it
mixed up with y’r tucker.” Mac eyed
the bottle and the apples. “I got nothin’
much t’ do,” he said. “If y’ like, I’ll give
y’ a hand to cut them apples in the
mornin’.” Next day the two of them
quartered the apples, the poisoner
sprinkled the deadly powder over them,
then took and laid the baits along the
road and reserve. He then departed to
the near-by township to “get some things.”
Mac sent his dog after the ewes and
turned them on to the baited road and
reserve. “They snapped up them apple
bits quick an’ lively,” he said. “Worked
out at nilly a apple a sheep, an’ the
bloke never knew I’d snuk that strych.-
bottle the night before, emptied the stuff
into me fire an’ filled the bottle with
salt.” Yes, he got home a few weeks
later, with green showing in the paddocks
and 346 ewes still alive.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Was riding past Robbie’s,
and decided I’d call and collect a couple
of wethers which had got into his paddock.
“I’ll give you a hand to chuck ’em over,”
Robbie offered. “They’re down in the
next little paddock, with a few old ewes
I’m keeping separate to sell.” We
reached the paddock. “Did you say old
ewes in here?” I queried, sending the
dog round the edge. “There’s half a
dozen weaners there, see? And some
more by the fence.” “Aw, they’re just
some I overlooked when I mustered the
paddock,” Robbie explained. “They
won’t hurt,” The dog brought the mob
nearer. “Couple of dozen wethers among
’em, too,” I re-
marked. “Only
two of mine,
aren’t there?”
“That’s all,” said
Robbie., “T h e
rest’s me own
that come under
the fence in the
comer where it's
a bit low.” I
located my own
animals, threw
them over the fence on to the road, and
turned back to look at Robbie’s mob.
“Got a fair sprinkling of young ewes
in ’em,” I remarked, letting go a four-
tooth, and grabbing another. “You sell-
ing them, too?” “Gripes, no,” he
answered. “I didn’t mean t’ put them
young’ns in. Got in be mistake.” We
yarned our way slowly to the gate, and
as I swung it Robbie turned watchfully.
“Make sure y’ shut that gate properly,
won’t you?” he reminded. “.Had a lot
trouble drafting off them old ewes, an
I don’t want to get ’em boxed.”
♦ * * ♦
“Jiggerman”: The aurora isn’t so rare
as it used to be. Today we can see a
man-made aurora in any large store m
the shape of a fluorescent lighting tube.
The glow in the tube is caused by a
stream of electrons flowing through ai
at a certain rarefied pressure. In the same
way, electrons caused by sunspots no
towards the earth until, reaching 1
magnetic influence, they are repelled
wards the poles. At a certain P 0
their journey through the atmospl“ ,
they meet a layer of air at the rig
pressure to produce a glow. Then
have our natural aurora.
THE COLLEAGUES.
Floodwater went through the land like a lion,
The roar of his coming in the valley by night
Froze heart of man and beast. They fled to
the hills
(Some were too slow). Whole townships he
devoured,
Stone walls like haystacks went down before his
might.
His hour brought the fruit of careful years to be
Black wreckage tangled in his yellow mane
As through the river-mouth he rushed to sea.
Miles out, as the rain cleared and the sun came
through,
You could see his tawny body, basking against
the blue.
But the old lion-sea that begot him is stronger
(None shakes a fiercer mane, roars with more
thunderous sound)
And made him a cub again, swept him with his
spoils
To this lost beach, where for sun-drowsed
hours he played
Innocent as a kitten, rolling his round
Green melons up and down the golden sand,
Patting the glass-bubble float from a lobster-pot
Into a smother of foam, plucking back from
the land
Brave painted boards that were boats once,
while the bright
Gulls swooped to watch his sport, all shrieking
with delight.
Yet the crows were not fooled. The crows
remembered
From what cold hands he snatched his toys.
Their flight
Labored out from the rocky hill-clefts, where
the spray
Drifts up the westering sun, circled and settled
(How heavy and strange amidst the wheeling
white!)
On the wet dark driftwood, while their ugly
cries
Of mockery pierced the breakers’ booming,
stripped
Their fellow-servant of his quaint disguise,
Showed that same livery of Death they wore,
And scarred the lonely peace of the long sunlit
shore.
N.S.W.
NAN McDONALD.


m
§
A
A
Where is the
proper place at
which one must
listen to radio
news and enter-
tainment? About
the same as would be proper to read
one’s newspaper, a book or listen to a
bird singing or a brass band coming
down the street —and perhaps even,
wherever one would listen to an interest-
ing person talking. There is no such
thing as a proper place for listening to
radio which nowadays from the point
of view of reception, functions equally
well most anywhere —indoors, outdoors-
on the high seas, underground —or high
in the sky.
All very well—but the fact remains that
probably 90 per cent, of listening is done
at a particular spot in the home. Why?
For two reasons only, the first that most
receivers need connection to a power-
point or some large source of power-
supply, and secondly would be much too
bulky and awkward to carry about. For
sheer convenience, comfort and general
utility the modern portable radio is the
answer to the habits of all broadcast
listeners when used in addition to and
in conjunction with the main receiver.
As a bedroom set it is superb—right
on the bed itself if yon like (no danger)—
and the same applies to the bathroom,
as you shave as you bathe, your favorite
serial or the hottest news, still without
interference to the listening of the rest
of the family. Outdoors listening is
certainly a point, but having used v the
new Mullard Portable for just on a year
now —our family says it’s a must —right
inside our home.
In the last year or two you have prob-
ably seen quite a few portable receivers,
some the tiny personal portables and the
others much bulkier and heavier and
awkward to carry around, and remember
the portables in the earlier days which
had a large external /‘loop” aerial which
looked more like some fancy bird perch
than an essential to a “portable wireless.”
The new Mullard portable not, only
makes use of the present-day lightweight
materials, but is a happy compromise in
size. With the tiny personal portables it
is impossible to obtain adequate volume
owing to the tiny loudspeaker, and in
addition the smaller batteries do not last
very long.
But how’s the range you say? Well
the Mullard inbuilt aerial brings us
Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane listen-
ing at Sydney with no fuss at all. And
the dry battery costs? Almost shelf-life,
say six months with reasonableness. The
tone? To my not inexperienced ear
amazing in its depth witty clarity and
volume to taste. But its eager and quiet
charm is our delight. By which we mean
its instant response at the flick of the dial
shutter, no wait for valves warming up,
and the complete absence of background
noises from the mains supply. As for
the people next door? They’re just full
of envy —we think when the blackouts
come —thanks to our family companion
—the New Mullard Portable.
p.s. Plays quite well in our car, prefer-
ably on the back seat when we’re going.
—ADVT.
“Blime”: It was late as I rode home,
and already the bit of frost was creeping
through the old Army coat and making
itself felt in tingling nostrils. Seeing :
light in Dill’s shack, I dropped off. That
bloke was slumped luxuriously in front
of a blazing log, and I ranged along-
side. “B-r-r-r-r-r-r. She’s going to be a
snorter.” “Yair. Take y’r coat orf,” he
advised presently, as I warmed through.
I shook my head. “Go on,” he persisted.
“Y’ll be warmed then, when y’ go out
again. Chuck it over there on me bed.”
I glanced towards his bunk, and found
it piled with
his blankets,
an old oiler, a
horse-rug, and
a couple of
fertiliser - bags.
On top was a
pyramid o f
boxes. I
slipped off my
coat. Immediately Dill grabbed it and
added it to the pile. “No sense leftin’ it
go t’ waste this weather,” he murmured.
“But I’m going again, in a minute,” I said.
“I know,” he agreed, “but it might’s well
give them other things a hand while it’s
here. Cripes, there’s nothin’ like gettin’
y’r bed good ’n’ warm like that before-
hand,” he explained ; “all ready for y’
to get inter.”
* * * *
“Vet”: It was the morning following
the Footballers’ Ball, and 16 of the team
were still in the bar after an all-night
session. The hours dragged on, till mid-
day brought the other two members, with
the reminder that it was the day of the
Bigtown match. The team showed little
interest. Then came the visitors re-
splendent in white and gold, their trainer
and their carload of buzzing officials. As
they marched in spectacular array to-
wards the ground, one of the officials
approached the local president. “Has
Rabbitville got a full team?” he inquired
politely. “Just a minute.” The club
president shoved his head inside the bar,
took a squint round and withdrew, “Too
right,” he answered. “Wasn’t sure of the
last two, but I’ll guarantee ’em now.”
The bloke moved away, and the local
returned to the bar. “Hey, chuck a
bucket of water over Lofty, somebody,”
he bawled. “Blow the froth off Bumper,
and get Mike on his pins. We’ve got to
start.” Two and a half hours later the
team filed back into the bar.
“Shouldn’t’ve let ’em get that fourteen-
goal lead in the firsti quarter,” glared the
captain sourly, “Wasn’t our fault,” de-
fended Lofty. “Tich an’ Bumper
shouldn’t ’a’ gorn t’ sleep. We kep’ failin’
over ’em.” “But a lead like that c’d easy
be awkwkrd,” remonstrated the cap.,
scowling at his team. “Cripes, you
blokes’d look pretty silly if that bunch o’
sissies’d beaten us!”
sfc * * ♦
“Salmon Gums”; The old bloke in
Such’s sketch three-parts submerged in
crocodile (B. 5/7/’5O) won’t be much
good if his cobber does get him out of it.
A croc.’s digestive juices are so potent
that when it is consuming an animal
the bones it swallows first are digested
before it finishes the meal. This fact is
used by Arab hunters to trap them. A
spring is buried in the body of a small
animal, which is thrown into the water.
Very soon after the bait has been taken
it is dissolved, allowing the spring to
open and grip the croc.’s belly. The
croc, is then hauled ashore by the line to
which the bait was attached. Not all that
it swallows, is digestible by a croc. Sir
Samuel Baker found in one of them a
pair of bangles, a necklace and a tangle
of black hair. He retaliated by shooting
them whenever he got the chance, and
claimed to have disposed of thousands.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: There’s a New Aus-
tralian going around our district claiming
that Dad Cowhide, a notoriously hard
man to work for, said he did as much as
any other two men on the place. He
worked for Dad for a fortnight, during
which time the old bloke grew pro-
gressively wilder, and found it increas-
ingly difficult to make allowances for a
newcomer’s strangeness. The explosion
came when Dad found him leaning on his
“ Nineteen-fifty? Cripes , I'm ack-Willy !”
hoe watching Bill and Tom making a
pretence at weeding the cauliflowers.
“Damitall,” he roared. “What d’ y’ think
I pay you blokes for? As for you, yer
lazy flamin’ cow, you do less work than
any other three men on the place! ”
* * * *
“Old Bushman”: Wiry-bearded Arthur
Ashton, the oldest drover on the road
in southern N.S.W., reckons punching
jumbucks is still a blackfellow’s life,
lacking the traditional color it had in the
roaring ’nineties. And he’s been travel-
ling the stock-routes around Hay’s tree-
less plains for 58 years, except for a spell
on the Somme. Incidentally, wounded
three times there, it is the only time he
has received medical attention. He
reckons modem drovers are mostly a lot
of counter-jumpers with fox-terrier dogs,
who couldn’t mix a brownie without
measuring the ingredients. That’s telling
’em!
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It was during crib-time
on the transhipping job when Mat spoke
up. “I bin readin’ in this bit o’ paper
all about a bloke in England was a sort
o’ rouseabout in one o’ them English
villages, an’ everybody reckoned he was
a bit of a dope. He was just about
hangin’ together with the few bob he
picked up here an’ there, but saves
his dough, see, starts a tea-shop, an
about twenty years he’s got cafes an
eat-up joints all over the place, makes a
fortune, the King knights him, an’ he
goes back t’ the village, an’ all them that
used t’ poke borak at him now has t’
call him Sir William. It’s Sir William
this, an’ Sir William that, an’ he has a
great old time lordin’ it over ’em.” Mat
chuckled, and began to roll a smoke.
“Well, there y’ are. Mat,” said Farmer.
“All y’ have t’ do is make y’r fortune.”
“Not for mine,” Mat drawled. “Fancy
cornin’ back here an’ havin’ all you silly
dopes kowtowin’ an’ sayin’ ‘Good morn-
ing, Sir Matthew’; ‘Yes, Sir Matthew’;
‘No, Sir Matthew.’ Cripes, it’d give a
man the willies.” He got the willies, just
the same, for he was “Sir Matthew” to
everybody, from the boss to the tea-boy,
for the rest of the time we were there.
* * * *
“Betcha”: A nag will travel quietly
enough through country he’s never visited
before, but alter an object on a well-
known route and he instantly protests.
A dropped branch that wasn’t there last
time he came along, a pile of freshly-
split posts, or even a familiar log shifted
to a different position is spotted immedi-
ately. For weeks Ted’s old nag has
travelled daily the same bridle-track
through a patch of fern, but on discover-
ing today that some of the ferns had
been cut he refused point-blank to go
through that way. In other places he
treads cut fern unconcernedly. I carried
a small roll of netting on old Bobtail,
and, ranging alongside a stump, left it
there to collect coming back. Returning,
Bobtail spotted the netting and took
violent exception to it. The object was
unfamiliar; it was something different;
he wouldn’t countenance such bare-faced
alteration. Silly? Sure; but come to
think of it, I know quite a few blokes
like that.
* * * *
“R.W.D.”: Read a short story where
the abo. hero imitated “the song of the
jabiru.” He must have sung dumb, for
that’s all the dignified old fellow can do.
Once, according to abo. legend, the jabiru
had a voice like everybody else, but used
it so incessantly that he got on every-
body’s nerves and eventually his voice
was taken away from him by the spirit-
Government of the day. The lesson should
not be lost upon some of our noisiest
apologists for the Kremlin cut-throats.
a|e *
“Bo”; The wagtail certainly wasn’t
behind the door when appetites were
being handed out. Almost before I had
turned the first sod of the bed Willie
appeared out of the blue —he wasn’t in
the garden when I reached for the fork
—and for the next two hours he hopped
around my
feet, assidu-
ously fossick-
ing the tumed-
up earth. In
addition to the
small worms
he gobbled—l
lost count at
something over
100 —he made
a hash of a
variety of
wogs, which,
together with
the worms.
must have totted up' to almost his own
weight. Getting towards the end of the
bed I noticed that, whilst my uninvited
guest was swishing his tail still with his
usual cheekiness, he seemed to be select-
ing his worms with rather greater care
than formerly. By the time I had turned
the last sod Willie had acquired that air
which you may observe in a small boy
who, breathing heavily after having
scoffed six cream-puffs and three ice-
creams, is offered another cream-puff,
while his ability to become airborne
seemed open to doubt. He was literally
staggering across the sods, lunch-drunk,
when I tossed him a revoltingly fat slug
I had turned up. The bloated fowl took
one look at it, and I’ll swear he almost
heaved before he Slowly hopped away.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Now is the season when the
fellow who likes to have a few home-
grown spuds ready before Christmas
wifi call in to some shop and fork
out Lord-knows-how-much for the
71b. of seed he used to get for a
bob. He will be assured that they
are all sound seed ; but it’s a pound
to a peanut they’re not. Taters are
somewhat like the blokes who grow
them —they’re prone to lose their
vitality after a time, and can no
longer be sure of reproducing their
kind. They might look healthy
and sound enough (the simile still
holds), but they’re finished as far as
fertility goes, and, if you know the
signs—I now speak of spuds only —it is
better to bake them than bury them.
The catch in this planting of small, whole
seed is that even in a good crop there
will be a few stalks that are “run out,”
and instead of giving six or eight good
tubers they will produce 20 or 30 marbles ;
and these are sold to the unwary for
seed. They might even be proffered as
“round seed from a heavy crop,” which
they could be ; and yet be “thread-eyes,”
duds, for all that. Apart from buying
tested stock, the only way to make sure
is to help the bloke who has a good crop
and, as you dig, put aside that odd small
taty from the stalk that carried plenty
big ones. These will be deep-eyed and
vigorous ; if you chip them with the fork,
discard them —dry-rot or slaters will beat
you before next planting-time. They
should be stored in the open but out of
the frost, and long before planting-time
will show thick shoots that will confirm
the accuracy of your selection. My little
trays of Carmens, Katadans and Up-to-
dates (come in, ye Factor fans!) are as
green as the hedge under which they’ve
sheltered, and by the end of November
there’ll be a pot of creamy-yellow tubers,
a floury fringe along the skin where the
boiling burst them, an aroma of mint,
a lump of melting butter —and all the
chefs of Paris couldn’t present a nobler
vegetable.
AUSTRALIAN-MADE.
This is my country: I was born here:
Some part of me is of it. There was no
choosing
Of country after careful comparison; only a
loosening
Of unfelt darkness, a jolt, a slap, a tear,
And I was here!
This is my land. I made
Mud-pies of it, fell from its trees, swaggered
In its surf, thought I could have its moon if I
hungered;
Grew older, dreamt in rhyme, worked. And
was paid—
With pennies’ shouting “Australian-made!”
In what mint
Was I minted between the patient mountains
And the calling sea? Why stamped with the
print
Of kookaburra-laughter and crow-caw down in
The dumps? Where was I given my love of
all things
Australian that reach from the soil and the
self my heart sings?
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


gd
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raw*.
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman);
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C. 8.8.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Full time Service
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd., Australia's oldest Trustee Company, has, since its
inception in 1878, given the whole of its time to the provision of prompt, efficient and economical
service as Executor, Trustee, Administrator or Agent.
• It cannot die or leave the country. Its services go on forever.
• It is specially constituted under Act of Parliament.
• It offers ample security for the performance of trusts.
O Its charges are fixed and moderate.
• Write or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
E 0
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
_
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserve, £966,706
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Kelvinator Australia, Ltd. (Adelaide)
Dividends
Ist 2nd 3rd Re-
Mar., Profit. Prefs. Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Total, serves.
£ / p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1940 10,256 7i 6 10 5,600 20,718
1941 6,143 7i 6 10 5,600 21,261
1942 7,388 7 i 6 10 5,600 23,049
1943 8,294 7i 6 10 5,600 25,743
1944 9,704 7i 6 10 7,020 28,427
1945 19,213 7i 6 10 8,700 38,940
1946 23,422 7* 6 5 10 12,265 50,097
Consolidated Figures.
1947 24,310 7i 6 5 10 16,200 58,323
Share premiums, £45,000 .. ~ 103,323
1948 52,675 7$ 6 5 10 29,075 126,923
Share premiums, £90,000 .. .. 216,923
1949 99,667 7J 6 5 15 57,200 259,390
1950148,808 7 i 6 5 15 79,700 328,498
A surprisingly good result. A year or so
ago signs were not wanting that the
market for products of this manufactur-
ing group was approaching saturation-
point—the 18-year-old parent and its three
subsidiaries turn out high-grade domestic
and commercial refrigeration units,
electric petrol-pumps, washing-machines
and other domestic appliances. However,
currency revaluations in September, 1949,
and other factors brought into play a
train of fresh inflationary influences,
which have not yet fully worked them-
selves out in the Australian wage- and
price-levels. Under the stimulus of this
artificial monetary influence, which re-
duced the threat of competition from
overseas, temporarily, at any rate, and
spurred by all-round expansion of the
Australian economy, through immigra-
tion and other causes, output and sales
of the co.’s products have continued to
increase. This despite the fact that early
in the last term production was severely
restricted by the nation-wide coal strike,
repercussions of which were felt in the
co.’s costs structure, too.
The co.’s big stockpile of scarce raw
materials, however, helped to soften the
blow, and gains from the growth in turn-
over, combined with savings from in-
creased efficiency, much more than offset
the persistent rise in wage and other costs.
After allowing an extra £58,838 for de-
preciation (£204,797) and an additional
£17,806 for taxation (£110,327), combined
net earnings of the group were £49,141
stronger at a record £148,808. That
covered the pref. divs, (£12,200) and
30.3 p.c. on ord, capital as against 29.1,
18, 19.2, 28.6 and 25.4 p.c. back to 1945.
'Hie 15 p.c. distribution, of which 5 p.c.
is labelled bonus, was repeated. For 11
years to the close of accounts in 1948 the
div. was steady at 10 p.c.
The rapid expansion of the business is
illustrated in the growth of paid capital—
approximately £20,000 in 1936, £64,941
in 1939, £200,000 in 1945 and £680,000 in
1949, How shareholders’ funds, together
with a lot of outside money, have been
employed of recent years the following
comparison of consolidated balance-sheet
figures shows:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Pref. .. £140,000 £230,000 £230,000 £230,000
Ordinary .. 175,989 270,000 450,000 450,000
Overdraft .. 228,826 475,465 103,974
Creditors, etc. 101,052 231,293 323,779 462,326
Tax provision 23,501 30,330 100,989 128,395
Pinal divs. .. 9,350 16,225 87,600 51,100
Freeholds .. 96,433 127,437 140,494 151,251
Plant ~ 79,468 152,831 191,383 195,788
Stocks .. 476,614 906,774 1,012,934 983,659
Debtors .. 83,894 185,302 160,429 225,000
Cash .. ~ 632 7,892 492 94,621
Stocks (down £29,275, despite the rise in
prices) are still the dominant feature of
the accounts. The improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£661,459) was
£53,946. Excluding the tax provision,
there was only Bs. 9d, of outside money
in the business for every pound belonging
to shareholders when the books closed.
The general outlook at the moment is
expansive, and it seems a fair working
assumption that for the rest of the year
prices generally .will remain high. Still,
industry’s costs are subject to continuous
upward pressures stemming from higher
prices and recurrent wage-lifts, and there
is little prospect of immediate relief from
these pressures. Later on some of the
edge will be taken off demand, and com-
petition will sharpen. Alive to its
problems, the management is constantly
assaulting costs by improved factory and
other efficiency, the technical set-up is
flexible and the co.’s earnings are not
“too dependent on any one line,” the
chairman says.
At 445. 6d. (31s. lOd. a year ago) the
ords. return 6.8 p.c. on a 15 p.c. distri-
bution, or 4.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c, div. basis..
The 6-7jr p.c. participating prefs. at 285.,
the 6 per cents, at 245. Bd. and the 5 per
cents, at 225. yield 5.3 p.c., 4.8 p.c. and
4.5 p.c, respectively on last term’s dis-
tributions. Net tangible cover is 295. Bd.
all shares—the prefs. enjoy priority as to
dividends and capital and share in surplus
assets.
Larke Hoskins & Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
April, Profit. , Dividends ■, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1946 .. 9,700 10 p.c. = 5,970 3,730 28,899
Reserves capitalised, £9602 .. ~ 20,297
Unexplained addition to res., £2947.. 23,244
1947 .. 21,448 15 p.c. = 12,000 9,448 32,692
To inner reserves, £21,996 .. 10,696
‘ Pref. Ord. Total,
p.c. p.c. £
1948 .. 60,089 5 15 13,600 36,589 47,285
1949 .. 107,272 5 15 13,500 93,772 141,057
To stock reserve, £30,000 ~ .. 111,057
1950 .. 379,427 5 50 41,500 337,927 448,984
To stock reserve, £150,000 .. ~ 298,984
No, there is no misprint there. Those
engaged in the distribution of British-
made motor-vehicles are enjoying a run
of phenomenal prosperity which has
carried profits to hitherto undreamed-of
levels. Chief contributing factors have
been, and still are; (1) The dollar
problem, which has reduced American
imports to a trickle and given British
vehicles almost a monopoly of the Aus-
tralian market, (2) the post-war boom
and economic expansion, features of
which have been a run of good seasons,
high prices, inflated incomes and over-
full” employment. Steady improvement
in the flow of chassis and outturn of
bodies—last-mentioned has been the chief
bottleneck on the retail side —has done
the rest.
New car and truck registrations in
N. S. Wales have moved in this way;
Cars. Lorries.
1938-39 .. .. 19,924 7,712
1945-46 .. .. 526 2,284
1948-47 .. ~ 7,998 5,487
1947- .. .. 16,659 9,079
1948- .. 25,466 11,674
8 mths. April, '5O .. 30,880 15,887
For the eight months to end April last
no less than 77.5 p.c. of the new cars
came from U.K. and only 8.3 p.c. from
America, while 11.5 p.c. were Australian-
made—a reflex of the popularity of the
recently-produced Holden. Pre-war the
ratios were 60.6 p.c. American and 38.8
p.c. British. Only about 15 p.c. of last
year’s new registrations were for replace-
ments, the rest being a net addition to
vehicles in use.
Larke Hoskins is sole distributor in
N. S. Wales (except portions of the
Northern Rivers and Riverina) for Austin
cars, trucks and marine engines. The co.
owns a body-building and assembly
works at Camperdown, has a repair and
servicing station at East Sydney, and is
about to erect a new production and
assembly factory on a 20-acre block at
Enfield. To help quicken retail deliveries,
Austin Motors (Eng.) bought the former
Ruskin co.’s body-works at Melbourne a
couple of years ago.
Turnover is not disclosed, but appear-
ances are that it reached nearly
£10,000,000 last term. Vehicle deliveries
stepped up from 719 units in the 1947
term to 1324 in 1948, reached 3868 in
1949 and shot up to 10,384 for the 12
months covered by the latest accounts.
After allowing £39,077 (up £23,077) for
depreciation, whatever was considered
necessary for taxation, paying an un-
stated cash bonus to employees and
strengthening the staff superannuation
fund, net earnings were over two and a
half times fatter than the previous year’s
at £379,427. That covered the 5 p.c. pref.
div. (£1500) and no less than 472 p.c. on
the £BO,OOO of ord. capital employed as
against 132.2, 60.7, 26.8 and 16.4 p.c.
back to 1946. On total shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined, in-
cluding a special stock reserve of
£200,000) the year’s profit was 62.3 p.c.
Shareholders joined in the prosperity, the
div. being lifted from 15 p.c. to 50 p.c.
Of the £337,927 that remained, £150,000
was sent to a special stock reserve, mak-
ing it £200,000, or 22.6 p.c. of the in-
ventory total at end April.
Just before the books closed, those on
the ord. register were offered 480,000 new
ss. ords., three for two, at par, lifting
paid capital to £240,000:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital. . £BO,OOO £llO,OOO £llO,OOO £240,000
Overdrafts .. 64,663
Creditors, etc. 53,726* 150,330* 886,223*1,019,337
Tax provision,
etc. 476,965
Final divs. .. 12,000 12,750 12,750 34,760
Freeholds 21,907 21,908 90,000 103,576
Plant, etc, .. 17,537 24,493 39,651 60,395
Stock .. 161,676 183,700 545,155 683,980
Debtors .. 22,043 32,274 46,830 115,499
Investments .. 17,531 19,598 28,797 28.856
Cash, etc. .. 2,387 38,293 369,597 1,077,730
* Includes provision for taxation.
The big cash and creditor items (up
£133,114 and £708,133 respectively) are
largely interrelated. Together with the
growth in stocks (up £68,669 net), they
suggest that chassis came forward faster
than bodies could be made and vehicles
assembled, and that the queue of appli-
cants who had paid deposits on cars,
etc., but were still awaiting delivery, was
a long one.
How long present conditions will con-
tinue is uncertain, but “expansion of the
co.’s activities can well continue,” the
chairman says. Much, of course, will
depend upon the dollar position. If
British car manufacturers hope to hold
the Australian market —it is their biggest
overseas outlet at the moment —they will
need to give more attention to incor-
porating features suited to the physical
requirements of the country.
At 20s, 6d. (11s. 3d. a year ago) the
f.-p, ss. ords. return 12 p.c. so long as
the 50 p.c. div, continues, or 6 p.c.
should the rate drop to 25 p.c. Excluding
the stock reserve, net tangible cover is
12s. 6d. a share. The pound prefs. seldom
appear on the market.
Swallow & Ariell, Ltd. (Melb.)
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
■ -Dividends v To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1942. .24,548 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 16,000 8,548 114,536
Net loss sale of assets, £9415 .. .. 105,121
1943.. 42.571 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 16,000 26,571 131,692
1944.. 49.238 6 „ 5 „ 16,000 33,238 164,930
To staff fund, £5OOO 159,930
Deferred Maintenance Reserve"
appears, £10,500 .. . . 84,164 194,094
1945.. 40,664 6 p.c. 5* p.c. 17,000
To staff fund,. £5OOO 189,094
1946. 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 18,000 35,523 224,017
To staff fund, £5OOO 219,617
Deferred expenditure, £1657 .. ..217,960
1947. .65,664 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,000 41,664 259,624
To staff fund, £5OOO 254,624
Deferred expenditure, £2153 .. ~ 252,471
1948. .65,910 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,000 41,910 294,381
To staff fund, £5500 288,881
From taix reserve, £22,018 .. .. 310,899
Reduction reserves, £2371 .. ..308,528
1949.. 60.377 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,000 36,377 344,905
To staff fund, £5500 339,405
Deferred expenditure, £lOB6 .. .. 338,319
1950.. 62.475 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,000 38,475 376,794
To staff fund, £5500 371,294
An encouraging result, all things con-
sidered. The co. manufactures biscuits,
cakes and plum-puddings, and gas is the
principal baking fuel. Hence the coal
strike of a year ago meant a heavy drop
in output while it lasted, and involved
the co. in a loss of about £20,000. As
the year advanced, however, ' the leeway
in production was overtaken, thanks
partly to plant expansion, and the co.
finished up the 12 months to the end of
April with a “substantial” increase in
both output and sales. a
But the strike and continued inflation
intensified the pressure on operating and
other costs, which gobbled all the
from the bigger trading, and more be
sides. There was a slip of £7355 in
gross earnings:— 11
„ . 1948. 1949. iq^n
Gross earnings. . . . £323,118 £328,004 £320 G4s
hxes * 257,205 267,627 258, *173
•• £.05,910 £00,377 £69 ilz
* Includes provision for depreciation and taxau/ 5
The reduction of £9454 in exes, was due
entirely to smaller provisions for denmoi
ation (£30,369, down £10,565) and ta Xa
tion (£38,407, down £6535). Th e
result (up £2098) was third-best in the
co.’s history, being 20.8 p.c. on capital
(pref. and ord. combined) compared with
20.1, 21.9, 21.8, 17.8, 13.3 and 16.4
back to 1944. That leaves out of the calcu-
lations deferred expenditure of £lOB6
charged to reserves created for the nur’
pose. F
The cautious board kept the div at
an all-round 8 p.c.~the £300,000' of
capital includes £lOO,OOO of 8 p.c. prefs
which advance with the ords. beyond that
rate. Subject to the relative levels at
which costs and prices settle down, pros-
pects of a lift in the dividend rate are
encouraging. For many years the board
has allowed for depreciation on a gener-
ous scale, the object being mainly to
strengthen plant (the chief earning asset)
and therefore the co.’s competitive power’
That goal has now been attained, and
only modem plant has any value in the
books, the chairman says. The immedi-
ate outlook favors maintenance of a high
level of turnover, and with visible reserves
heaped £17,294 higher than paid capital,
the two combined need turn in only
4.4 p.c. to cover an all-round 10 p.c
distribution. ,
During the eight years to 1947 the
book-value of freeholds was reduced by
£76,460, plant by £110,470, and £421,236
was added to the large holding of cash
etc. Since then £98,464 net (£11,047 of
it in respect of the last term) has been
added to the plant item, and, despite a
net addition of £11,846 last term, free-
holds are still below the 1947 level, which
was. a long way below their pre-war book-
value :
Consolidated! Figures.
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital . £300,000 £300,000 £ 300,000 £300,000
Creditors '.. 75,897 98,078 111,548 112,783
Tax reserve 127,331 76,424 48,878 38,992
Pinal divs. .. 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000
Freeholds .. 129,913 113,665 102,913 114,759
Plant, etc. .. 44,986 92,656 132,403 143,450
Stocksi .. 69,378 91,247 111,091 133,242
Debtors .. 93,194 94,662 107,566 131,659
Cash, etc. ~ 423,908 386,163 860,857 314,959
Notwithstanding the year’s outlay on fixed
assets, the net amount of working capital
in the business (the more-or-less liquid
surplus) was £8997 stronger at £413,085.
Stocks and book debts together more
than covered the outside debt, leaving the
co. with cash, etc., £14,959 in excess of
its paid capital.
The market prices the 30s. ords., paid to
20s. each, at 41s. 6d. and the prefs. at
415., giving a return of 3.8 p.c. and 3.9
p.c. respectively on the basis of last term’s
distributions. Net tangible cover is £6
14s. 3d. prefs. and 575. lid. ords.
Jantzen (Australia)
( Dividends
March Ist 2nd Ee-
-31, Profit. Pref. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1940 .. 6,504 9 9 5,288 13,066
Profit on sale of shares, £2626 .. 15,692
1941 .. 7,847 9 9 5,288 18,251
To superannuation fund, £3OOO .. 15,251
1942 .. 10,719 9 9 5,288 20,682
From taoc provision, £2178 .. 22,860
To superannuation fund, £8317 .. 19,543
1943 .. 11,994 9 9 5,287 26,250
1944 .. 9,873 9 9 5,287 30,836
1945 .. 8,355 9 9 6,850 32,941
1946 .. 7,252 9 9 7,049 33,144
1947 .. 10,867 9 5 9 7,570 36,441
From tax provision, £3500 .. .. 39,941
1948 ~ 15,156 9 5 9 9,550 45,547
1949 .. 25,118 9 5 9 11,945 58,720
1950 .. 46,560 9 5 9 13,850 91,430
* Subject to patents and trade-marks, £lO,OOO.
With the post-war increase and spread
of spending-power, the rapid growth of


Missing Friend.
YOUNG—ANYONE knowing the where-
abouts of next-of-kin of WILLIAM
YOUNG, born Nottingham, England,
served in Army and settled at Launceston,
son of William and Mary Young, are
asked to communicate with T. J.
PURCELL. Solicitor, 66 King Street, Syd-
ney, where information to their advan-
tage may be obtained.
SURFERS’ PARADISE, QUEENSLAND
For Sale. Charming River Frontage Home. Unrivalled position on high bank,
with glorious views of River reaches and mountains. Only 350 yards from
surf. Secluded corner position, 66ft. frontage to Pacific Highway and
approx. 112 ft. frontage to River, area 1 rood 38 perches. Three bedrooms,
beautiful living-room with polished floors, open fireplace and clear-glass
observation windows. Built low to ground on brick piers. Fery
furnished, inc. large new refrig., built-in furniture and cupboards. Uot-water
septic system, telephone. This is something really special. Further details
and photographs gladly supplied.
Sole Agents: HARDING SMITH, ARMSTRONG & SPENCER,
Nerang Street, Southport, Queensland.
Phone 302, 327
-rt €l/1
Every Rolls lighter is precision built —for
unfailing service. Fully automatic, with
built-in windguard, spare flint recess.
Five year guarantee. Chrome, 39/6.
Distributed by WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED
it tights ever if time
m
m
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Public Notice.
LAKE VIEW & STAR, LIMITED
(Incorporated in England).
INTERIM DIVIDEND No. 67.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a
Second INTERIM DIVIDEND of SIX-
PENCE per share sterling in respect ot
the year ended 30th JUNE, 1050, less
United Kingdom Income Tax at NINE
SHILLINGS in the £ (Two decimal point
seven pence per share sterling), has been
declared and will be payable on 18th
SEPTEMBER, 1950, to all persons regis-
tered as holders of shares qp the Aus-
tralian Register at the close of business
on 24th AUGUST, 1950.
The Net Dividend is equal to Three
decimal point three pence per share
St The Books will be closed from
25th to 28th AUGUST, 1950, both days
inclusive. , . ,
The Australian equivalent of Dividend
will be calculated at the rate of Exchange
ruling on 25th AUGUST, 1950.
For LAKE VIEW AND STAR, LTD.,
R. D. MORRISON, Local Secretary.
Kalgoorlie, W.A.,
14th July, 1950.
Position Vacant.
Anglo-Westralian Mining Pty.
Limited Requires
FIELD SURVEYOR
HEADQUARTERS: BIG BELL, but chiefly
engaged in Field Work.
DUTIES: Carry out Mine Surveys and
prepare Preliminary Plans for Draught-
ing. Set out Controls for Regional
Mapping on Aerial Photographs. Know-
ledge of layout of Building Construc-
tion and Machinery Erection and
Authority to sign Plans under the
Mining Act desirable but not essential.
SAT,ARY- £6OO-£750 per annum accord-
ing to qualifications. Travelling Ex-
penses paid whilst on Field Duties.
APPLICATIONS to—
GENERAL MANAGER,
Anglo-Westralian Mining Pty. Limited,
BIG BELL, W.A.
These ALL-WOOL "Field and Stream"
SHIRTS ARE NO GAMBLE
for Town and Country
n m
NICKEL
GREY ,
•9
S 7 /TUDOR
TAN
' Kl\j : I
BAMBOO
FAWN >
r r •
✓
K*
\X
V
Made from Australian fine all wool shirting specially loomed
for Reilly’s. Tailored sleeve. Roomy fitting. Button cuff.
Three-way collar attached.
Sizes Min. to Patterns
available on application.
Price 63/-
72/6 (xxos)
I
56 PARK ST.,
(OPPOSITE
SYDNEY, PHONE MA 3026
T. & G. BUILDING)
THE SMALL STORE WITH THE BIG SIZES
Milestones in our National Progress (2)
RiT
WOOL
• the greatest asset in
our National Balance Sheet
,
£&&S,
II
w
—■
CREDIT for establishment of
the Wool Industry belongs to
Captain John Macarthur who,
on his return from England,
began to breed sheep with
eight Merinos from the flock
of King George 111.
Australia now has more
than 100 million sheep yield-
ing a yearly clip of over 3
million bales, the gross value
of which exceeds £155,000,000.
Ronaldson-Tippett pay tri-
bute to the men both past and
present for an Industry so
well founded and conducted
and are proud to serve them
with engines, shearing equip-
ment and jetting plants of a
quality entirely worthy
of this magnificent
National asset
RONALDSON BROS & TIPPETT LTD.
m
IB
Head Office: Ballarat, Victoria. Melbourne Office: 628 Bourke
St. N.S.W, Dist.: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd., Frazer House,
42 Bridge St., Sydney. Q’land Dist.: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.)
Pty. Ltd., Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
ill
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
turnover of this manufacturer of
knitted swim-suits, trunks and
cardigans and of woven shorts,
slacks, shirts and skirts has far
outpaced the brisk advance in
operating and other costs. Since
1946 net earnings have increased
over sixfold, and, to help cope
with the bigger trading, £91,500
of fresh capital has been
gathered, raising the total to
£198,333 in 25,000 9 p.c. first
and 100,000 5 p.c. second prefs.
and 73,333 ords. The American
parent co., which first set up a
factory at Lidcombe, near Syd-
ney, 22 years ago, owns most of
the ords., in which Burns Philp
is also interested, and the Aus-
tralian public put up the pref.
money.
Helped by a new line of
winter skirts, sales, etc., increased
by 36.2 p.c. (£297,902) last term,
reaching £821,823. A firm hold
was kept upon controllable out-
goings, exes. (£200,586, up
£47,176) taking 81.1 p.c. of gross
earnings (£247,146, up £68,618)
as against 85.9 p.c. in the
previous term. That was after
allowing for depreciation
(£10,513, up £1710), taxation
(£34,161, up £10,133) and a con-
tribution to the staff fund
(£1870). The record profit
(£46,560, up £2144) was enough
to pay the pref. divs. and show
a juicy 53.6 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 29.4, 19.5, 14.4 and
9.8 p.c. back to 1946. Since
money is wanted in the business,
the div. was kept at 9 p.c., an
annual event for the last 11
years, leaving 70 p.c. of the
year’s net earnings to plough
back into the undertaking.
Here are balance-sheet figures,
which further illustrate the
growth of the business:
Paid capital— 1948. 1949. 1950.
Ist Pref. .. £25,000 £25,000 £25,000
2nd Pref. . . 50,000 100,000 100,000
Ordinary ~ 53,383 73,333 73,333
Overdraft . . 124,504 88,600 156,065
Creditors . . 29,073 30,107 55,933
Tax and expenses 24,469 36,808 55,339
Final divs. . . 5,883 7,397 8,204
Freehold, plant 82,797 85,323 96,668
Stocks .. .. 224,042 370,945 312,867
Debtors .. 40,542 53,761 145,828
Cash, etc. .. 428 886 441
Patents, trade-
marks . . 10,000 10,000 10,000
To carry an extra £92,067 of
book debts, add £41,422 to
stocks and £11,345 to the book-
value of fixed assets the co.
went to its bankers for an extra
£67,465 and increased the
amount coming to trade credi-
tors by £25,826 last term. The
improvement in the more 7 or-less
liquid surplus (£183,095), or net
growth in working capital, was
£21,365. Still, excluding the tax
reserve, there was 14s. 7d. of
outside money in the business
for every pound belonging to
shareholders when the books
closed.
To ease the position 10,000
new £1 first 9 p.c. cum. prefs.
were issued, two for five, at a
premium of 10s. each to those
on the first-pref. register at June
27. The premium means that
the new shares will cost the co.
only 6 p.c. p.a. When the issue
is fully paid pref. divs. will call
for £Bl5O p.a., which was nearly
five - and - three - quarter times
covered by last term’s profit
figure. The market prices the
firsts at 355. 6d. and the seconds
at par, giving a return of 5 p.c.
in each case. Net tangible cover
is £8 14s. Id. firsts and
£2 13s, lid. seconds. The ords.
are not listed.
Takuapa Valley Tin N.L.
This Sydney-controlled co.
repossessed its Takuapa River
property (Siam) in Oct., 1947,
and got its two 200,000-c.y.-a-
-month dredges into commercial
production some four months
later. For the year to Dec. 31,
1949, it netted £15,113 (down
£23,978), or 10.1 p.c. on the
£250,000 of capital. That was
after allowing £3462 for taxation
and includes £2600 of sundry
revenue. In addition £9389 was
received in adjustment of the
previous year’s ore sales. During
1949 three 6d. (stg.) divs., total
7i- p.c., were paid out of £23,954
received during the previous
term for tin ore taken from the
property during the Jap. occupa-
tion, Since the close of accounts
two 6d, divs. have been paid, one
February 28 and the other July
1.
The trouble last year was that
No. 2 dredge, which earned most
of the 1948 profit, was working
through low-grade tailings, which
averaged only 0.131 b. per yard.
Instead of contributing to the
pool, this machine made a work-
ing loss of £9821. It is digging
its way down-stream toward
the northern area, where
1,323,000 c.y. of 0.621 b. dirt
await treatment. On the way
there are some payable blocks,
as well as further low-grade and
unpayable tailings, to be passed
through.
No. 1 dredge, which en-'
countered some slate bars and a
lot of sand, handled more better-
grade ground, worth on the
average 9.41 d. a yard as against
7.29 d. in 1948, for a working
profit of £19,454 (up £13,377).
This machine has some 6,240,000
c.y. of 0.41 b. ground to handle
before it is dismantled, trans-
ferred and re-erected on the
northern area, where, in addition
to the ground to be treated by
No. 2, there is 35,308,000 c.y.,
averaging 0.521 b., and 1,015,000
c.y., averaging 0.721 b., to be
handled.
Combined results of the two
dredges compare as follows:
1948. 1949.
Dredged, c.T. .. 2,850,009 8,855,000
Tons, t.o, . • 412.27 322.28
Value, c.y. •. 9.50 d. 6.56 d.
Wkg. costs, c.y. .. 5.92 d. 5.87 d.
Wkg. profit, c.y... 3.85 d. 0.69 d.
The slight reduction in costs
was due mainly to purchase
(officially sanctioned) of more
ticals at the official rate of ex-
change. The average net price
(after deducting duty, etc.), re-
ceived for the tin oxide, which
assayed 74.3 p.c., was £284 15s.
lOd. per ton, or £ll 7s. Id. more
than for the previous year.
Since the close of accounts
both machines have been in
better ground. For the six
months to June 30 No. 1
handled 710,000 c.y. for 144.5
tons to., an average of 0.41 b.
per yard, and No. 2 770,000 c.y.
fdr 124 tons t. 0., an average of
0.371 b. per yard. No. 1 is ex-
pected to maintain a similar
average until it has worked out
the present area, which will take
about four years at the current
rate of digging.
At Dec. 31,1949, current assets
totalled £70,830 and outside
liabilities £61,339, of which
£24,958 was a rehabilitation
loan from the Thai Government.
Assessment of the co.’s war-
damage claim for £198,000 is
complete, but it is expected that
the amount to be received in full
settlement will be substantially
below that claimed.
The London spot price of
metallic tin averaged £SS4B per
ton in 1948 and £S6O6 in 1949.
The figure fell from £S6OI for
Jan., 1950, to £SS9O for April,
rose to £S6OI for June, and then
rocketed to £S69I on July 18
and fell to £5662 on the follow-
ing day. American strategic
stockpiling, reported Russian
buying on armament account
and a rush by commercial users
to cover their future require-
ments were the factors chiefly
responsible for the sudden leap
in the price.
The co.’s pound shares, which
touched 275. 6d. in the market
during 1949, fetched 21s. 6d. last
week.
Sterling Gold, N.L., an
Adelaide concern which recently
took a three-year option over
leases 54 miles s.-w. of Marble
Bar on the faraway Pilbara field
(W.A.), reports that there is 3800
tons of 20dwt. ore ready for
sloping on its Eidelweiss block.
The co. expects to have 7000
tons measured up within the next
three months, and, with re-
coveries averaging 18dwt. and
costs at £4 a ton, the lot is ex-
pected to yield a profit of
£67,000. Issued capital is in
250,000 ss. shares paid to 4s.
each. The board says the re-
maining Is. a share, plus cash
in hand, should be sufficient to
carry on until the 10-head of
stamps begin to fall. Mindful
of the history of Blue Spec and
others on this field, the market
takes a cautious view and prices
the co.’s scrip at 3s. 9d.


Tlhe Ibest
A fox reaches its best age, from the point of view of the skin,
in the first autumn or winter after it is twelve months old.
It relies most on its extraordinary sense of smell and hearing
to locate both prey and enemies. Living in lightly timbered
country, and never far from water, foxes are usually light or
Spm*U
dark>taa, grizzled with grey, with a
white-tipped brash which streams
behind as they race for cover at about
35 miles an hour. Best hunted at
dawn and sundown.
Not until a whisky has aged for 5
years does it enter its prime. Maturity
gives it mellowness and fine bouquet.
Gorio Whisky is matured for over fire years (more than
double the minimum prescribed by Commonwealth law).
Corio Special
Whisky at its prime•
The sales of whiskies produced at the famous Corio Distilleries
exceed those of all other brands marketed in Australia.
,C29/16
IXL - AJC
OK-VO
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
■ SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
COPLAND ON OUR ECONOMY.
Sir Douglas Copland, Vice-
Chancellor of the National Uni-
versity at Canberra, a cO-author
of the Premiers Plan in the early
1930’5, former Prices Commis-
sioner and economic adviser to
the Prime Minister, and Aus-
tralian Minister to China after
the war, has been a prominent
economic counsellor for the past
on * - r
ZU years.
Most people who had to do
with Professor Copland during
his neriod of office as Prices
ms period or omce as rnces
Commissioner are agreed upon
his ability as an administrator
even where they may choose
. j.-x , . .
to differ with his economic
opinions. And whatever his
economic opinions, he has
the farnltv for pvnrpsdncr thpm
t, P u 8 1
lucidly. This has been particu-
larly noticeable in his addresses
and articles on Australian eco-
nnmip affairs Unrp hie rptiim
nomte affairs smee ms return
from China.
These articles and opinions
are of special interest because of
the fact that the Henries Goy-
eminent seems to pay particular
heed to Professor Copland’s ad-
vice It was Mr Menviec who
Vice. It was Mr. Menzies wno,
early m the war, made Copland
Australia’s first Prices Commis-
sioner and retained him as eco-
nomic adviser to the Prime
Minister. And the Curtin and
Chifley Governments endorsed
these annointments
„ ”1, ’ f .. .
The BULLETIN was fully in
accord with Professor Copland’s
description on April 4, 1949, of
thp Australian industrial spt un as
tne Australian industrial set-up as
a “milk-bar’ economy—that is,
an economy in which the output
of consumer goods often of a
or consumer goods, onen or a
non-essential variety, was out of
proportion to the production of
essential materials, raw and
otherwise, and capital goods,
Sir Douglas has also spoken
on the more controversial re-
valuation question. In the course
of a lengthy address to the N. S.
Wales Citrus-growers’ Council
on April 12 this year he said:
Certain countries, fostering in
various degrees °ff^ e
p nse simdar to our own, have appre-
dated their currencies in recent years,
but none has any degree of enthusiasm
for the experiment. I refer to the
adjustments in varying degrees earned
QUt a f ter t b e war by Canada, Sweden
an d more recently (in 1948) by New
Zealand, when parity with sterling
was restored. The experience of these
countries does not suggest that cur-
renCy a ppreciation is a course to be
lightly entered upon by the capitalist
world, with its free social pressures,
and if is significant that all three
depreciated their currencies in greater
or j ess degree when sterling was
depreciated in September, 1949
I think if ma y 136I 36 assumed that the
world economic situation is such that
the force of overseas competition
would be greatly strengthened in any
country that deliberately set out to
cheapen its imports by currency
ffie SStZSt
on the efficient and the inefficient, and
there is little doubt that it would set
back the basic P lans which Australia
hag for long . term industrial develop-
ment
There has been almost a whole
export season at the higher export
gjjg* d would be
naive indeed to expect the trade-union
movement to withdraw its claims for
higher wages merely because the level
of export incomes might be lower in
t be next export season. Nor is there
anything to suggest that the revalua-
tion of the currency would induce a
S eneral condition of deflation, with-
out w bj c b it cannot succeed.
it is a mistake to look upon a
manipulatitpn of the currency in the
abstract; it must be considered in
rdation to the general finandal policy
Q f the country. Appreciation by
itself will not stop inflation, the con-
trol of which would demand a wide
range of measures, such as
interest rates, restricted bank advances,
reduced investment (public and pn-
vate), lower Government expenditure
and other such discouragement to
increases in costs and incomes.
There are strong signs that the era
is now passing in which high export
incomes provided the main impetus
to inflation, and that the driving-force
henceforth is likely to be the heavy
investment programme associated
with the immigration scheme, which
will involve materials and capital
goods that are beyond Australia’s
capacity to supply. Appreciation
"We've made you a partner in the firm, I know, but
do you think you could KEEP my daughter ?”
will do nothing to meet this source
of inflation, which can only be
checked with external assistance.
In the following month (on
May 23) Copland gave an ad-
dress at Melbourne University
on the inflation problem. Ac-
cording to a Melbourne “Argus”
precis of the address he said, in
part:
Our inability to control inflation
since the war leads to some doubts
about the possibility of maintaining
full employment in Australia as a
permanent economic objective.
Expansion of expenditure on public
works in itself is not enough to meet
the problems caused by any future
depression. t
The employment of many of our
resources in unessential industries is
the main cause of the present shortage
of capital goods in Australia —of
houses and of the capital equipment
needed for the production of hun-
dreds of things still in short supply.
We have indeed achieved what I
have previously called a “milk-bar
economy,” and no theories of full
employment so far advanced are
capable of dealing with the problem.
It seems patently clear that some
degree of adjustment between prices,
costs and incomes would be inevitable
in any future depression.
To me this seems certain, and any
economic theories or economic or
political predictions that seek to
cover up these unpleasant facts are
only misguiding the public.
Avoiding Depression
It is true, of course, that a great
deal can be done through public
works and monetary policy to miti-
gate the effects of a depression and
to avoid the distress of unemploy-
ment.
However, the success of an anti-
depression policy depends to a large
extent upon the checks imposed upon
inflation during its expansion period:
that is, the period during which
prices and costs are rising.
Stabilisation Scheme
To this end we should have had
during the last three years a stabilisa-
tion scheme for a number of export
commodities so that the full effects
of the high export prices were not
immediately transmitted to the Aus-
tralian economy.
There should have been at the same
time very large budgetary surpluses,
with fairly strict economies in public
expenditure, particularly those upon
social services.
The time to expand the Welfare
State is definitely in a depression, not
in a period of boom.
The attempt to absorb large num-
bers of immigrants, while at the same
time to rely upon local production
for most of our capital goods, is
bound to aggravate the forces of
inflation.
Dollar Loan
Immigration is highly desirable, and
should be sustained. It involves,
however, much larger capital expen-
diture than is commonly realised.
Its success, indeed, depends upon
the importation of capital goods on
a substantial scale.
In order that adequate supplies of
capital goods may be obtained from
overseas, I again suggest that a dollar
loan should be obtained as a major
weapon in the fight against inflation.
In that address, it will be
noted, Copland touched on his
advocacy of a dollar loan (as he
did by inference in his April
address), a policy which he later
commenc j e d to the Government
X - . ™ , , A . •
of New Zealand. And in the
latest issue of the United States
publication “Foreign Affairs,”
Copland put the proposition to
A J; • ■VaHers-
American reapers.
American capital exports should be
directed more to non-European coun-
tries, and they should largely take
the form of loans of a commercial
type, negotiated either in the United
States capital market or directly
between Governments.
Because the dollar problem is also
the sterling problem in reverse, it
follows that in the search for a solu-
tion to international economic dis-
equilibrium the most fruitful avenue
for American investment might be in
sterling countries outside the United
Kingdom....
Australia has a rapid population
growth, many important and profit-
able projects of economic develop-
ment (which can be undertaken only
with the help of large-scale capital
imports), a vital interest in strengthen-
ing sterling and a capacity for becom-
ing an independent dollar-earner in
the near future if her development
is fostered n0w,...
Australia, for example, might need
to borrow from $200,000,000 to
$400,000,000 annually. This would
involve an annual interest charge of
$50,000,000 to $100,000,000 in a fairly
short space of time. How could this
be met?
In the immediate future it should
be possible to increase Australian
dollar earnings by exporting com-
modities such as meat, for which a
market may exist in America that has
not been exploited because of supply
difficulties. The export of 150,000,000
pounds of beef to the United States
which would represent only about
one-eighth of 1948-49 production
would in itself provide about
$50,000,000. The proceeds of the
proposed loans would be used to
step up general productivity in Aus-
tralia, moreover, and the increase in
output resulting from this may be
expected to augment Australian dollar
earnings.. Australia has a* good record
in fulfilling her debt obligations, and
her external debt has been reduced
by £100,000,000 (Australian) in the
last ten years
But the principal reason for assum-
ing that Commonwealth countries
could meet tile obligations of a dollar
loan lies in the long-term develop-
ment which might be expected to
take place in the American economy
Present-day forecasts of the willing-
ness of the United States to import
are unnecessarily gloomy. The present
rate of productivity in the United
States is more than 2 p.c. per annum.
If this is maintained, the American
national income will double in little
more than 30 years, and long before
this stage is reached America will be
growing short of the raw materials
necessary to feed her growing pro-
duction.
The present dependence of the
United States on certain raw materials
will thus be greatly increased, and
her volume of imports should grow
even more rapidly than her general
rate of economic development.
American exports of food and raw
materials will also decline relatively
to total output, so that her export
surplus should eventually be con-
verted to the import surplus required
of a creditor country if international
equilibrium is to become a reality.
The British Commonwealth should
therefore have little difficulty in
finding the dollars necessary to meet
interest charges on the debt, and it
would be unreasonable to use pos-
sible difficulties in this regard as an
excuse for inaction.
On Monday of last week Sir
Douglas Copland addressed the
Junior Chamber of Commerce,


m
Circular Charts for all type*
of Recording Instruments
for mf class of M«chUt«ry
or Equipment
METER CHARTS • Specialty
mmms o’suluvan^u*
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
i
.0
112
Michael Faraday’s fame rests on those of his
researches which laid the foundations of electrical engineer-
ing. Less known, but almost equally important are his
achievements as a chemist. He found out how to liquify
chlorine and certain other gases, isolated hexachlorethane,
an important industrial solvent, and prepared the naphtha-
lene sulphonic acids which are used in textile dyeing. His
most important chemical work, however, was the discovery
of benzene, a colourless liquid which forms the starting
point for manufacturing practically all synthetic dyes, as
well as aspirin, saccharin and many substances used in
medicine. This discovery laid the foundation upon which
another British chemist, Sir William H. Perkin, was able to
build the modern synthetic dyestuffs industry.
Faraday was born at Newington Butts, London, in 1791,
He came of poor parents who apprenticed him to a book-
binder at the age of thirteen, his early scientific education
being obtained by reading the books brought in for binding.
A customer gave him a ticket for Davy's chemical lectures
at the Royal institution, where Faraday obtained employ-
ment as a laboratory, assistant in 1813. By 1825 he had
become Director of the Laboratory and eight years later
was appointed first Fullerian Professor of
Chemistry, a post he retained until his death
in 1867. Faraday’s .chemical researches
were of immense importance, the isolation of
benzene alone having proved of great value
to mankind all over the world.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
.... ■— IL-63-14—.
Ancestors
of an
Industry
ICI
CONTINENTAL TRACTOR
hM/MAdtioW IN
for power,
performance,
versatility,
COSt • . • only half the price
of others in its clast
It’s new, and news! The TRACT
CONTINENTAL Crawler
Tractor, powered by Berliet
Richardo Diesel Engine, is designed
so that dozers and logging winches, as
well as all standard equipment, can
be readily fitted. It features wet liners,
specially heat treated and ground; alloy pistons with cavity combustion chambers;
central direct injection with two 'overhead valves to each cylinder; Bosch type fuel injection system;
double fuel filtration; radiator engine cooling; large oil bath type air cleaner; hand inertia start; electric
inertia start. The engine drives through a single plate-foot-operated clutch. Cast steel transmission
and track frame housings give maximum strength with accessibility for steering brake adjustments.
The oscillating Tractors using a track pivot shaft, diagonal brace system and heavy transverse
equalising spring, ensure smooth operation on all types of ground and help keep sprocket seal
replacements to a minimum. All track bearing surfaces are of special case-hardened steel and of ample
proportion. Track-rollers have a double oil seal. Five lower rollers and two upper hollers are a
unique feature for this size and type of Tractor.
HI
■\ ..
: W&zBB
IISML
iilPw
t
wmfm.
:V: ;.
£1995
Finance arranged
*ln an inertia starter, a small flywheel coupled
through gears to a cranking handle or electric motor
is made to revolve at high speed, and the power
then stored in it is transferred to the engine’s crank-
shaft by means of a small, manually-operated clutch.
This method has been used for starting aircraft
engines, but TRACT CONTINENTAL IS THE FIRST
TRACTOR TO EMBODY THIS FEATURE.
TRACT CONTINENTAL GIVES REMARKABLE PERFORMANCE
IN GOVT. DEPARTMENT TESTS
v ■■ -.. _ : ;■, , ;f
Under actual field conditions, drawbar effort tests
carried out at Granville, N.S.W., under super-
vision of State Govt. Department, the TRACT
CONTINENTAL Diesel Crawler Tractor gave a
remarkable performance. Field conditions com-
prised a loose, well worked loam of medium
moisture content. Dynamometer loading was
carried out by means of a drawn grader, and the
following test results were recorded:
Tract
Continental
Type CB7O
Drawbar
Effort
Lbs.
14,425
Speed
M.P.H.
«
SPECIFICATIONS
Brief specifications of the TRACT CONTINENTAL are
as follows :—
Engine: 4-cylinder diesel, rated at 69.020 b.h.p.
Bore 4.7 in.; stroke 6.Sin.; speed 1400 r.p.m. Speeds:
li, 3, SJ m.p.h. forward; reverse m.p.h.
Rated drawbar pull: Ist gear, 11,8801 b.; 2nd gear,
9,6801 b. ; 3rd gear, 6,3801 b.; 4th gear, 5,0601 b.; sth
gear, 3,3001 b.
(Maximum at local test, 14,4251 b. in Ist gear.)
Length of track on ground: 73.4 in. Track tread:
54in. Ground pressure: 4.11 b. per sq. in. Dimensions:
Length, 127.5 in. ; height, 59in.; width, 75in.
Weight: 13,8001 b. (approx.).
• Immediate delivery
# Limited stock
SUTTONS MOTORS PTY. LTD.
137-153 BOURKE STREET, EAST SYDNEY
Telephone FA 6791 (6 lines)
Melbourne, on Australia’s prob-
lems in an expanding economy.
Pointing out that at the present
rate of growth we should, in 10
years, have a population 40 p.c.
greater than it is now, Copland
said that we must increase our
national income by that amount,
unless we are to experience a
fall in our per capita living
standard. “This,” he said, “is
an enormous task in a country
that requires so much capital
development as Australia does.”
After dealing with the hous-
ing shortage, the need for re-
duced consumer spending and
greater investment, the Professor
went on to say:
Houses before hotels, tractors
before motor-cars, electricity before
refrigerators, might well be the motto
for the next few years
The theories of full employment
now current have become outmoded
so far as Australia is concerned.
Whereas the attention of economists,
bent on preventing depression, is
directed towards the task of raising
the level of consumption, Australia’s
immediate task is to lower the con-
sumption and to raise the level of
investment. In this way we shall
certainly be giving up a certain
amount of security for the sake of
progress, but we cannot have both.
So long as we continue to find new
investment outlets, moreover, there
will be no immediate danger of
depression.
The structural problems of adjust-
ment to a high rate of economic
expansion can be eased somewhat
if adequate plans are made to draw
upon foreign supplies of capital
goods during the period of adjust-
ment
There is an overwhelming case for
going into the dollar area.
Fundamentally, the level of pro-
ductivity is the basic factor determin-
ing our ability in the long run to
meet the problems posed by our
plans for development.
In the short run we can avoid the
issue by cutting down on consump-
tion, by importing goods from abroad
or by allowing a certain amount of
inflation. But no free society is will-
ing to have its standard of living
arbitrarily reduced for ever, no
country can afford to borrow from
abroad indefinitely and no inflation
yet has continued without a sharp
reaction eventually taking place.
The only alternative to these is
higher productivity.
This is a good time to recall that
security does not merely consist of
a full stomach, a doctor on the door-
step and a pension at age 65 ....
Studying these various re-
marks of Professor Copland, a
number of his recommendations
become clear. Among these are
(1) no currency appreciation at
present, (2) greater production of
essential goods, (3) a higher rate
of investment in capital goods,
(4) borrowing in the dollar area
to assist in capital equipment,
(5) stabilisation schemes for
primary products, and (6) the
aim of Budget surpluses in boom
times. He also advocates the
encouragement of production by
means of incentive payments.
The Stock Exchanges
Steadiness continued in Aus-
tralian share prices last week.
B.H.P.’s somewhat higher profit
and the ending of the Newcastle
stoppage brought a strengthening
there, and Wall-street’s better
tone coincided with the publica-
tion of the final figure for Aus-
tralia’s 1949-50 wool cheque,
which was 47 ,p.c. higher than the
previous year’s record amount.
Six months of strong share-
market activity (to June 30) was
accompanied by the taking from
the market of a record amount
of new capital. In the first half
of 1950 new capital issues
amounted to £43.3 million, com-
pared with £35.9 million for the
first half of 1949 and £56.8 mil-
lion for the full year. Of the
latest six months’ total, deben-
tures accounted for £16.8 million,
compared with £6:6 million in
the corresponding half of 1949.
There has been no “share-
market indigestion” resulting
from new share-issues as there
was in 1949. The larger wool
cheque has brought a bigger sur-
plus for investment, and the
abolition of compulsory pre-
miums on new issues has been
another factor.
Central-bank Credit
Savings will have to take the
place of new money in New
Zealand’s capital development
from now on. This is the mean-
ing of a gentle hint given by the
directors of the Reserve Bank
in their annual report, in which
once a year they think out loud.
They’re on the alert to cut down
central-bank credit wherever they
see an opening, and don’t intend
to let N.Z. add to the £l9l
million of extra money conjured
up in the past 11 years.
They shouldn’t find the task
difficult, for the new Govern-
ment and most Maorilanders,
above all the farmers, are right
behind* them. Prime Minister
Sid Holland has been on the
warpath against inflation since
he took over from the Socialists,
and business and producer
organisations were clamoring for
action before that.
While money flowed without
limit it sapped the will of
Maorilanders to do a decent
day’s work, and the effects will
take time to pass off. There
wasn’t much incentive when
money was being poured out and
the value of the pound was fall-
ing. This was one of the head-
aches of those in control of
exchange, too, for M.L.’s pound
had more value abroad than at
home, and the pent-up demand
for imports was hard to resist.
While this pressure remains the
Dbminion cannot discard its ex-
change and import defences.
Maoriland Economics
Maoriland’s £l2 million cut
in subsidies on butter, milk, tea,
bread, flour, eggs and coal, rail-
way fares and freights, which
forced up prices, has been partly
passed on to company payrolls
in a 7s. wage-rise for men and
4s. 9d. for women and juniors,
based on the first £7 of wages
in the one case and £4 15s. in
the other, which will cost trade
and industry over £150,000
a week.
Social - security beneficiaries,
the dependants of the
Dominion’s Welfare State, have
been handed 2s. 6d. a week
more, whiih adds a million-odd
to the annual social-security bill
of nearly £5O million, while
civil servants, farm-workers and
farmers wait in the queue to
learn what their share would be.
These changes came within a
month of the opening of M.L.’s
first “free-enterprise” Parlia-
ment for 15 years, and at the
end of a record-breaking export
season. They were the latest of
a chain of moves —mainly re-
leased controls —to end infla-
tion, elbow out Socialism, make
costs and prices more realistic
and put value back into M.L.’s
pegged sterling value pound.
For several months it has
been slowly dawning on Maori-
landers that there’s no easy way
to take a rise out of the cost of
living, but many still cling to
hopes that there’s an easier way
than by hard work, so a good
deal of acid comment on the
changes has been heard in
middle - and lower - income
groups. Education and persua-
sion will be needed to convince
diehard critics that the only way
to be more "prosperous is by put-
ting their shoulders to the wheel
and living frugally. This must
be part of the pump-priming to
launch the production drive to
put M.L. firmly on the right
road.
New Zealand leans towards a
compromise between “step-on-
it” Yankee methods of getting
things done and the “go-easy”
conditions that have reigned for
so long ; but organised labor is
holding back. There’s plenty of
room for tuning up, , without
sweat or sacrifice of much-
prized leisure, even within the
narrow N.Z. industrial field,
which lacks iron and other
metals, and many workers
would be willing to do better
with a little union encourage-
ment. This is the main obstacle,
along with incentives, which
have been weak.
Broken Hill Proprietary’s
profit for the year to May 31
was £91,144 higher at £1,335,815.
Of that, investment income was
£1394 greater at £613,393. De-
preciation allowance was
£10,897 more at £1,211,778, and
taxation provision at £BOO,OOO
was up £50,000. Figures for the
whole B.H.P. group are not yet
available. The div. from B.H.P.
has remained unchanged at 81
p.c. Total N. S. Wales steel-
ingot output for the year to June
30 was 1,194,176 tons, up 34,000
tons on the 1948-49 period.
Australian pigiron output
(1,083,754 tons) was 25,750 tons
greater. In the latest year there
was a severe loss of production
in the early portion owing to the
big 1949 coal strike, since when
monthly output has been
generally above average. B.H.P.
remains one of Australia’s
strongest investments, with
shareholders’ best yields from
the steel enterprise still to come.
* * * *
The final figure for Australia’s
wool cheque for 1949-50 beat
all estimates. At £286.6 million
it is up £92 million (47 p.c.) on
the cheque for 1948-49, Bales
sold were 352,140 (10.8 p.c.)
greater at 3,593,756. In addi-
tion, resales of wool by the
Australian Wool Realisation
Commission totalled 473,929
bales and fetched £24.3 million.
Average price for greasy last
season was 63.3 d., against 48d.,
39.5 d., 24.5 d. and 15.7 d. in the
four preceding years. World
wool consumption in the two
seasons to the end of June,
1949, was about 14 p.c. above
production, and during the past
season it seems to have been
every bit as high. In the 11
months to the end of May the
United States was Australia’s
second-best customer, buying
£32.6 million-worth—£l4.6 mil-
lion-worth more than in the
same period of the preceding
year.


Women’s letters
From Melbourne
Much pomp and circumstance for the
Lord Mayor’s Ball. The Royal Melbourne
Regiment supplied the guard-of-honor,
and they were led into the Town Hall by
bandsmen in scarlet uniforms and tall
busbies. There were two vice-regal
parties—the Governor-General’s and the
State Governor’s. The Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. J. S. Disney, presented her niece,
Denise Rawling. The beautiful gowns
were given a garden setting. From floor
to organ-loft it was ablaze with cyclamen,
primulas, crotons and poinsettias. There
were terraced lawns. Crazy paving led
up to a playing fountain, and from a
spotlighted niche a statue of Venus, with
Cupid at her feet, gazed upon the ani-
mated scene. Bowls of poinsettias and
cotoneaster were set against the primrftse-
and-blue drapings of the dais where
guests were received.
This year the Lord Mayor revived a
traditional custom and, with other
members of the council, wore Windsor
dress, Mrs. McKell’s tailored gown of
black self-striped faille was cut with a
deep, square neckline. Her presentation
bouquet was of pink orchids, early-
blossom and daphne. Betty McKell’s
gown was in green tonings, made with a
halter neckline and finished in front with
a large, flat bow, the skirt being full and
flared. The bouquet of deep-red roses
which the Lady Mayoress had presented
to Lady Brooks made striking contrast
to her gown of champagne satin, which
had a delicately swathed neckline and a
bouffant skirt gathered into a pointed
bodice. French brocade in shades of
pale-gold, grey and mauve fashioned Mrs.
J. S. Disney’s lovely gown. The slim-
fitting skirt was made with two full panels
which fell into a train. Lady Herring was
in burgundy-toned moire with tiny beads
embroidering the bertha collar which
swathed the neckline. Mrs. R. G.
Menzies wore a stole of misty gold tulle
with her gown of deep wine satin.
Heather Menzies’s gown of hyacinth-blue
marquisette had a silver lace bodice.
Mrs. Isobel Green’s cinnamon-brown
faille had bead embroideries on the lapels.
Her daughter, Mrs. Ron McGregor, was
in powder-blue taffeta. A billowy gown
of white tulle was the choice of Mrs. S. J.
Fletcher. White satin with an overskirt
edged with narrow pleating forming a
fishtail effect at the back made neat effect
for Mrs. P. L. Coleman. Grey accordion
pleating was a feature of the chiffon gown
worn by petite Mrs. J. A. Collins. Mrs.
Philip Dare favored white Brussels lace
over black taffeta. Seafoam-blue satin
was worn by Lady Martin. Mrs, Frank
Williams covered her pastel-pink Chan-
tilly laces with a full cape of blue satin.
Mrs. Frank Selleck’s full-skirted gown was
of black lace. Mrs. Bernard Evans’s
taffetas were pastel-pink moire. Smoky
blue tulle, full-skirted and off-the-
shoulder, was worn by Mrs. Harold Holt.
Mrs. Adrien Perry’s silver lamd gown
was brocaded in cerise, Mrs. Harold
Wootton’s off-the-shoulder gown was of
black Chantilly lace.
Gyorgy Sandor, a young Hungarian
by birth and American by adoption,
was the soloist in Brahms’s Second
Piano Concerto with the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra under Henry
Krips. Vera Bradford, who has
just completed a series of successful
morning musicales at Menzies’ in
aid of the British Memorial Fund,
was there with fellow-pianist Elizabeth
Munro-George, who has just returned
from America. Elizabeth is on her way
home to Perth and has just been heard
over A.B.C. in two recitals. Also in the
audience were singer Rita Miller, pianist
Viva Holgate-Clarke, who the night be-
fore had given a Bach recital in the
Assembly Hall, Mesdames John Ruther-
ford and Roger Fairbaim, and Jean
Davies.
Back in 1918 the South Melbourne
Council appointed Sister Eva Perrett to
conduct a baby health centre in the
South Melbourne Town Hall. Her work
was done in several part-time centres in
various halls, until a double-fronted
residence in Albert Park was acquired.
This, extended, remodelled and re-
decorated, was opened by Lady Brooks.
The new centre has cream walls and
honey-colored floors, and ceilings, except
in the play-centre, are painted duck-egg
blue. Colin Mackay, chairman of the
South Melbourne Community Chest,
handed over cheques for £lOOO for the
pre-school centre and £260 for the salary
of the play leader. Sister Perrett is still in
charge.
Petite Nan Burgess, who recently re-
turned after a trip abroad, has announced
her engagement. Nan is the younger
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Burgess,
of Toorak; her fiance is Lieut. John
Lovell, R.N., only son of Mrs. J. B.
Lovell, of Streatham, Surrey, England,
and thd late Mr. W. G. C. Lovell.
The ring is unusual: a round-shaped
ruby, set at each side with a
diamond. October has been set
for the wedding, and in August of next
year the couple will go to England to
make their home. Engagement was
celebrated with a dinner-party at
Menzies’.
This Broothom study is of Barbara,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Sullivan,
of Launceston, Tasmania, who after
being educated at Sacre Cceur convent is
nbw doing her nursing training at St.
Vincent’s Hospital. Recently Barbara
celebrated her 21st birthday with a
luncheon-party given by her parents at
the Ritz, and a buffet dinner-party given
by Dr. and Mrs. S. H. Marron and their
daughter Anne,
For many seasons famous designers
have been urging women who are past
their first youth to forsake the inevitable
black gown and wear soft pastel tones.
That they have at last taken this advice
was obvious at the Lord Mayor’s Ball,
The clear blues, such as cerulean, had
been chosen by many of the older guests,
and, worn with the equally clear note of
turquoise jewellery, the effect was often
lovely. One guest had her hair faintly
tinted blue to tone in with her gown. The
middle-aged woman can wear white, too,
provided her figure is slim and her skin
without blemish. White gowns worn by
many at the ball were either slimly-cut,
as one was on Grecian lines, and high-
lighted by silver embroideries, or, as in
another instance, with a skirt wide and
bouffant and the bare top covered with a
matching stole. Taffeta also lends itself
to many treatments of skirt and bodice ;
if the figure is not what it once was, clever
cutting of the skirt can do wonders.
Skirts are newer if they are narrdw. For
instance, one smart dancer chose a gown
of black taffeta. It was fitting to the
knees, then a flounce of layers of black
tulle swirled out about the feet. There
were no hips to conceal —that was why
this style had been chosen. The bouffant,
taffeta skirt is still news, and looks well
on the older woman. Dior’s marvellous
white or grey chiffon, which is pleated
down to swirl out over the hips and
ankles, is an excellent line, and the
bodice, draped and revealing one bare
shoulder, can be used if shoulders and
neck are firm.
Designers are making a point of stoles,
which can be in every conceivable color
and fabric. With a gown, say, consisting
of a white satin top and a blue-green satin
skirt a stole of rose velvet picks up the
color of the sash which encircles the waist
of the gown. Bat-wing sleeves look well
in taffeta or satin, and to balance the
sleeves the skirt is full and slightly
trained. Now that elegance, has returned
to the evening mode, bronze faille is
another shade and material admirable for
the hot-so-young. The skirt should be
cut straight in front and drawn back over
the Hips to fall softly in a slight bustle or
fish-tail draperies. One gown of forest-
green silk taffeta had a heart-shaped neck-
line and short, draped sleeves, with the
skirt cut straight in front, and slightly
gathered over the hips, then flared out
into three wide, unpressed pleats at the
back. Hair styles, short and simple, are
a perfect background for the fan-shaped
or chandelier earrings now popular.
From Sydney
The Australian Wool Board arranged
an interesting exhibition of fine-wool
fabrics in the Gloucester-room at the
Australia, no fewer than 17 countries con-
tributing. There is no doubt that fine-
wool produces fabrics of the most varied
and delightful textures, and much enter-
prise and skill are being shown in design-
ing new and interesting materials. This
show would gladden any feminine heart,
the only drawback being that not a yard
could be bought to take home. Perhaps
it \yas as well, because it would have
been very difficult to make a choice.
Scotland contributed, among other
materials, a delicious crepe-tweed. This
was woven in large green-yellow-and-grey
checks of becoming muted-colors com-
bined in a featherweight material de-
signed to drape perfectly. A mixture of
wool and camel-hair woven into a superb
coating in harmonious brown-and-natural
check formed part of Canada’s contri-
bution. Belgium sent a brown wool-
velvet corduroy, and Switzerland a most
elegant grey diagonal-striped worsted.
The exhibits from Britain and France
displayed the unlimited possibilities for
the use of wool. Britain sent furnishing
fabrics of distinction, including a wool-
tapestry material with a small sprigged
pattern, chosen by Queen Mary for a
chair-cover, which can be heartily recom-
mended to those who have a set of cedar
balloon-backs needing new and suitable
covering for the seats. At the other end
of a scale, in which pink-and-grey-
checked jersey-cloth was prominent,
were engaging rubber boots with tartan
wool-tops and lamb’s-wool lining teamed
with a capacious tartan bag. France
concentrated on fashion with a capital F.
This section included hats, bags, scarves,
gloves and a distinguished black evening
material woven with a gold thread called
tissue delaine. From the North of Ireland
came the handsome green-and-white
tweed furnishing material chosen by
Princess Elizabeth as part of her wedding
gift from the woolgrowers. This drapery
was also used in the liner Queen Mary.
Australia showed among other things a
particularly nice grey flannel suiting. It
is quite evident from the exhibition that
wool can be used all day and every day
for 52 weeks of the year, and that no
other material is quite so nice to the
touch. Gracemary Mackinnon, secretary
to the Wool Board, had her bags packed
to leave by air for a three-months’ tour
of Europe to study textiles and fashions.
Viola Keats proves herself an actress pf
staying-power and capacity in the role
of Blanche in “Streetcar,” an endurance-
test in histrionics in which she appears
for six nights and two matinees weekly at
the Royal, Virtually never off the stage
during the entire performance, Blanche is
considered one of the most strenuous of
roles. When Sir Laurence Olivier pro-
duced this play under the auspices of
the British Arts Council, with Vivien
Leigh in the part of Blanche, the theatre
closed each Monday night to allow her
sufficient rest. Even so, Miss Leigh had
finally to give up the role on the advice
of doctors. Subsequently the part was
offered to Ann Todd, who declined it,
presumably because of the strenuous
nature of the performance. For this
reason the Firm has arranged for Miss
Keats to take a fortnight’s vacation be-
ween each season in the Australian
capitals. Viola Keats says she plays
Blanche as a woman who cannot face
the sordid realities of her life, and so
draws a gossamer around herselfthat
Blanche isn’t really mad, but that all she
does is reasonable in the light of what
happens to her. As a graduate of the
Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, winner
of their, highest award (the Bancroft Gold
Medal), Miss Keats has had a number
of exacting roles in both London and
New York. She pulled her weight during
the war with a job with ack-ack Artillery
Command,
At the Independent Theatre early next
month Doris Fitton will produce two
French plays—a curtain-raiser with an
odd name that translates “The Door
Must Be Either Open or Shut” and
Henri Becque’s “La Parisienne.” Last
year in Paris she saw this double-bill
played at the Comedie Fran?aise; the
settings are Paris in 1850 and 1880 re-
spectively. It seems they introduce
amusing angles on love, the situations
being pentagrams rather than triangles
Miss Fitton promptly bought the plays
but since they were in French it has been
necessary to make translations. Those
ambiguous people described as “observers”
may have noticed at Gleneagles recently
this producer, very chic in a beige
melnsine skull-cap and black eye-vetl
having a meal in the company of Dr!
•Amando Martins, Consul for Portugal
who spent most of the time reading a
book to her. Dr, Martins was making A
free translation of the plays, and Doris
Fitton was getting the gist of the material
before inducing her lifelong friend
Phyllis Roberts to make a translation.
Now everything is ready for production.
The Black and White Ball committee
is putting up a fine effort to raise enough
money to pay for the Braille printing-
press, which at long last has arrived in
Sydney, This will print schoolbooks for
blind children and other matter that
needs duplicating for the use of those
who see with their fingers. On the last
two successive Tuesdays this hard-
working committee has held monster tea-
musicales at David Jones’s restaurant.
Well-known stage and radio artists gave
their services, which contributed greatly
to the success of these parties. Jack
Davey, with supporting artists one week,
and Evie Hayes, taking time off from
“Annie,” helped yesterday. Everyone
present was impressed with the perform-
ance of the blind orchestra. Mrs. Charles
Lloyd Jones, president of the committee,
was there, graceful and charming as
usual. Among others, including com-
mittee-members, were Mrs. Lionel Mc-
Fadyen, Mrs. Phillip Keen, Marcia
Moses, Mrs. J. C. Manners, Mrs. Strath
Playfair, Mrs. Peter Yeats and Ann
Livingston.
St. Joseph’s Old Boys’ Union packed
the Trocadero with some 1500 guests for
their annual ball. The president of the
union, W. M. Fogarty, and Mrs.
Fogarty received the official guests,
among whom were Air Vice-Marshal
J, P. J. McCauley and Mrs. McCauley,
and the presidents of all the G.P.S.
bid boys’ unions and their wives. Mrs.
J. A. Mansour, wearing pink and silver
lamd, presented the debs. (Judy Kirkby,
Mary Murray, Jeanette Le Blanc, Jan
Rochester, Mary Gillard, Noreen Mac-
quare, Veronica Coorey, Shirley Watson
and Joy Hutcheson) to the Air Vice-
Marshal (who is an old Joey’s boy him-
self) and Mrs, McCauley. Original notes
were the muff-shaped posies carried by
the debs., and the floral decorations in
the form of footballs and cricket-bats
which decorated the ballroom. The com-
mittee made a nice gesture in presenting
a floral boat to the Head of the River
crew. Mrs. Fogarty received her guests
in a draped frock of grey chiffon accented
with roses at the waist and orchid-pink
gloves. Mrs. A. C. Ternes, who was
accompanied by her husband, Dr. Ternes,
chose blue lamd.
The Ginette Neveu Memorial Concert
takes place tonight at the Town Hall in
aid of funds to establish a memorial
scholarship. Sydney Symphony Orchestra
under Eugene Goossens, with Edmund
Kurtz as soloist, and other artists,
are combining in the programme.
After the show Dr, Alphons Sitber-
mann is giving a supper-party to
members of the committee and
others who have helped to launch the
fund. Guests will include the Ambas-
sador for France, H. E. M. Gabriel
Padovani, Consul-General M. J ean
Strauss and Madame Strauss, Vice-
Consul M. J. Ortoli and Madame
Ortoli, Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Goossens
and Mr. and Mrs. Charles Moses. Dr.
Silbermann, who was in Paris last year
when Ginette Neveu gave her two last
concerts with her brother, took the
brilliant young violinist to supper on the
last night before she left on the fatal
plane journey. He has worked untiringly
to help with the memorial. .
The weekend weather was most unkina
to those assisting the Lord Mayor’s Foo
Relief Appeal. An open-air concert
arranged on Saturday in SprmgfieW-
avenue. King’s Cross, was held on the
back of a trailer in persistent, drizzling
rain. Hundreds of the locals; attended,
and donated money to the Fund while
voicing their admiration of the ligmiy
clad girls singing and dancing in the rai .
On Sunday, when the weather showed an
even sourer face, Elisabeth Bergm ,
Evie Hayes and Arthur Askey supply
the first half of the excellent programrn
at the concert held in the Town


♦
i
w
W
fg
home-lighting batteries to fulfil every
LIGHTING NEED-BACKED BY 60 YEARS' EXPERIENCE.
d
XHLIA.2S
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
About the only supplies Kempsey and
other towns thereabout received in the
recent floods arrived by Sunderland
flying-boat —the Port Macquarie service
run by a trio of young brothers of ener-
getic intelligence who, having done their
A.I.F. bit to get the Tokyo surrender
signed, climbed back into civvies and
looked around for something just* as
interesting to do. Heading the team,
Philip Dulhunty signed on at 18 and
signed off with the 8.C.0.F., after intelli-
gence work in New Guinea. While in
Japan, in between supervising elections
and rounding up Koreans who had no
desire to co-operate in MacArthur’s
repatriation order, he learned the lingo,
and was struck by the possibilities of
trading. Result, the Dulmison (Australia)
Company, now trading nicely from
Tokyo with Australia, Venezuela and, till
lately, with Korea, mainly in insulators,
of which the Japs are among the world’s
best makers. In Sydney on leave
last Christmas, faced with the uninviting
prospect of a train-trip to home-town
Port Macquarie, he and his brothers lit
on the bright idea of charting an air-
craft. Only one available was a Sunder-
land. They took it, advertised for fellow-
passengers, and were checking-in the
resultant rush so enthusiastically that they
almost forgot to get themselves aboard.
Now their clipper runs regularly from
Sydney every week (P. G. Taylor being
one of the pilots), and the trio have their
speculative eye on Taree.
The first Professor of Agriculture in
Australia, Robert Dickie Watt, had his 36
years of solid service to the Sydney Uni-
versity Faculty rewarded last week by
receipt of the Farrer Medal. Born in
Kilmaurs, Scotland, 69 years ago, the
prof, got his academic qualifications
(M.A., B.Sc.) at Glasgow University, and
his practical at the West of Scotland’s
Agricultural College. From there he went
to practise in the Transvaal, ending chief
chemist in its agricultural department.
Coming to Sydney University in 1910,
in between his faculty duties he found
time to preside over the N.S.W. Royal
Society, the Australian Institute of Agri-
cultural Science, chair the State Com-
mittee of the C.S.I.R. for 26 years from
1916, and sit for two terms in the Uni-
versity Senate. Recreation, naturally,
backyard agriculture.
Gone to Te Reinga, the Maori Val-
halla, from Gisborne (M.L.), Apirana
Ngata, the jolly leader of his race who
looked like an Australian cattleman and
as an orator maintained the highest tradi-
tions of his people. Representing the
Eastern Maori electorate for 38 years
from 1906, he was “Father” of the M.L.
House of Reps, as early as 1930, when
he became Minister for Native Affairs.
8.A., M.A. and LL.B., he was admitted
to the Bar in 1897, forsook law for poli-
tics, and through his recruiting work was
mainly responsible for inclusion of those
savage bayonet-fighters of his race in the
War I N.Z.E.F. He held several im-
portant portfolios in his long Parlia-
mentary career, among them Acting
Attorney-General in 1930, three years
after he had risen Sir Apirana at Bucking-
ham Palace. He was 76 at the end.
“Macnell”: While the world jitters and
wonders ind prophesies, the Old Firm,
always active, always perfecting, goes
quietly and thoroughly on its blue-water
way, letting slip now and again a hint of
something accomplished, and always
something which no other Navy has yet
achieved. Recently two lieutenants of
the R.N., A. B. B. Clark and N. Perrett,
touched-down on carrier Theseus in the
first carrier-landings by night of jet
planes. Flying Vampires, they did it five
times to make sure, catapulting off,
guided only by pin-points of light from
a destroyer ahead and conned in by a
batsman waving illuminated bats. The
U.S. Navy has made successful jet land-
ings at night on a floodlit flight-deck
Theseus burned a few dim lights along the
edge of her runway; the rest of her was
war-time darkened. Also comes news of
Lieut.-Commander J. S. Bailey, of the
same Firm, who landed a Seafire on
carrier Illustrious and marked up his
2000th deck-landing and a world record.
Bailey made his tally flying Albacores in
Coastal Command, strikes from Victori-
ous against the Germans in Norway,
from Indomitable against Japs in Sabang
and Sourabaya and against Germans and
Italians in a famous Malta convoy ; with
a further 80 added while attached to a
big experimental station at Boscombe
Down. He’s deck-landed every type of
naval aircraft from Tiger Moths, Sea-
fires and Corsairs to Avengers, Barra-
cudas, Vampires and Meteors.
Easing-up, knight Herbert Gepp, who
at 72 retires from the directorate of Aus-
tralian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd., after
12 years from 1936 as managing-director.
A great chemist, a great organiser and a
first-class speaker who could not only do
things but could talk about them, he went
to Prince Alfred College in Adelaide on
a State-school prize and at 24 was manag-
ing a chemical works. On the organising
side, he went to the U.S. in 1915 as
commercial ambassador, and in 15
months sold £1 million-worth of pro-
ducts ; his other share in that war was
supervising munition supplies in Canada
and U.S. for the A.I.F. The possibility
of Australia being isolated in war has
always been an obsession of his (he wrote
four books about it), and in 1926 the
Bruce-Pages picked him for the big
£5OOO-a-year job (1926 values) of super-
vising immigration. Under his drive
the A.P.M. concern more than trebled its
output, and brought into production its
eucalypt pulp-mill, with an annual
capacity of 40,000 tons. A major opera-
tion this year warned him to slow down ;
he’ll concentrate on his farming, which
he lists as “recreation.”
Mclntyre braved the drills and other
instruments of torture at Otago Univer-
sity’s Dental School (M.L.) to pin down
the victim here presented, Dr, John
Patrick Walsh, the Dean, and recently
elevated to a. Fellowship in Dental
Surgery of the Royal College of Surgeons.
Hailing from Melbourne, where he
graduated with first-class honors in
Dental Science in 1936, Walsh had some
years as Registrar of Melbourne’s Dental
Hospital before deciding he wanted to
know more about what molars were the
CAVITIES.
portcullis to —so he went back to school,
and came out a medico, with a posting as
Resident M.O. to Alfred Hospital for
two years. Then, the war-time R.A.A.F.,
and, with that business finished, a Tas-
man crossing to his present post, where
he’s been for the past five years. He
returns to Australia next month, selected
to present a paper to his fellow-
fang-farriers at the 12th Australian
Dental Congress. He’s 39.
“Cauboy”:, “Song of Norway,” the
operetta on Edvard Grieg’s life now at
His Majesty’s, Melbourne, might well
have had for one of its characters the
Melbourne composer and pianist Percy
Grainger. The Australian, who gave
his first recital at 11 and went to
England by public subscription shortly
after, astounded Grieg, then in London
giving concerts, by his amazing acquaint-
ance with his music, which he played,
the composer said, better than any Nor-
wegian. His eulogy of Grainger put the
Australian before the public; he never
looked back. Later Grieg implored him
to go to Norway—“lf you want to see
me alive, you must come next summer.”
Grainger lived with him in his mountain
home near Bergen, rehearsed one of his
most famous concertos, and was the last
guest to see him. The Percy Grainger
Museum the Australian established
at Melbourne University was largely
a memorial to the composer, and
contains many relics of him. Grainger
married a Norwegian, the beautiful Ella
Strom, and she played the harp at Mel-
bourne Town Hall when he conducted
the pieces he dedicated to her, “To a
Nordic Princess.”
Herewith the keenly speculative facade
which houses the energetic business brain
of Ralph Dobson, Queensland chief-of-
coffers of the National Bank since 1945,
and, for five years before that, boss of the
S. Australian branch. Taking his first
breath in Sale, Victoria, 61 years back, he
left farming for banking in 1914, and
left that for four years’ shooting with an
artillery unit of the old A.I.F. Now
president of Brisbane’s Chamber of Com-
COFFERS.
merce, in his spare moments he’s usually
to be found on the hopeful end of a
fishing-line.
Stepping down from the Bench in
Adelaide, Henry Mortimer Muirhead
has been magistrate of the Adelaide
Police Courts for the past 25 years and
Chief Magistrate since 1934. t The legal
profession knows him as “Bonny
nobody knows why, though it’s certain
he didn’t hail from Argyle, nor looks
anything like the one who did. Infantry
sarge in France with the old 10th Bat-
talion, he’s Adelaide-born, son of a
solicitor. His grandfather came out from
Glasgow over a century ago to set up as
one of Adelaide’s first jewellers. H.M., or
“Bonny,” was “admitted” in 1909, but
never practised. Rowing interested him
when he was younger; he captained
the Adelaide Rowing Club, before that
captained Adelaide University’s rowers,
and also played in the Uni.’s first inter-
’Varsity football team. His son closed
his law-books to open an account with
Hitler as a private in the A.I.F. Taking
over from H.M., L. E. Clarke is a two-
war Digger, Prince Alfred College man,
one-time judge’s associate and, since
1934, stipendiary magistrate.
Coincidentally, one of the four Aus-
tralians selected to study in America for
two years under the General Motors
scholarship plan is a Holden. Robert
William Holden, he works at the firm’s
plant at Fishermen’s Bend, but is no
connection of the original Holden. He
will get specialist education at the
General Motors Institute of Technology
in Michigan.
Lance Solomon, caught here by Dubois
looking well-pleased with the results of
his show of landscapes at Sydney
Grosvenor Galleries, now in its second
week and practically sold out, is not the
sort of artist who gets into the gossip-
columns of the dailies. He neither paints
monstrosities nor wears a beard, but,
married, with two children, lives quietly
at Narrabeen in a house he has largely
built with his own hands, and studies the
bush and the surf. Some of the up-the-
country pictures in his exhibition are the
CANVASES.
fruits of a camping-trip with H. A. Hanke
before Hanke left for England. Lance
Solomon won the Travelling Scholarship
in 1939, the Wynne Prize in 1946. The
N. S. Wales Gallery has four of ! his pic-
tures ; and Howard Hinton —the best
friend Australian art ever had —sent six
to Armidale at different periods.
“Bosun’s Mate”: Captain George Ed-
ward Cove (he relieved Bissett of the
Queen Mary in 1948) steps up to another
of that genial shellback’s commands—
Commodore of the Cunard Line. First
sea-sickness 1905, first command the old
Britannic, it’s not the first sea queen he’s
sailed —old Aquitania, his command be-
fore the Mary, was generally accepted
among blue-watermen, particularly when
judged in convoy with her modern sisters,
as being the most graceful liner afloat.
Raked overall, from her lean hull to lean-
ing masts, funnels and under-slung
counter-stern, she had the grace and old-
world dignity of a queen among flappers.
Commodore Cove is a pleasant cove, with
a cargo of anecdotes and a salty air of
telling ’em that makes him, with Bissett,
one of' the best dit-spinners the Red
Duster has produced since Noah
romanced on the voyage of the Ark.
Devon vintage, 1889.
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 83, Dr. Alfred Webster, who,
as a tall stripling, fresh from his hospital-
walking, was a resident medical officer in Queen
Victoria’s household at Balmoral and was
assistant Professor of Medicine at Glasgow
before coming to Australia in 1904. His first
practice here was on the West’s goldfields,
followed by a year as medical superintendent
of the then Perth General Hospital. He later
went into private practice, but remained senior
honorary consultant physician to the Royal
Perth Hospital until the end.
At 76, in Hobart, Victor Edwy Wettenhall,
Geelong Grammar product and insurance co.
manager, whose grandfather, Captain Robert
Wettenhall, R.N., made his landfall in Tasmania
at the same time as. Sir John Franklin. On
retirement Victor worked hard for charity, and
at the end was chairman of trustees of the
Australian Natives’ Association, in which he’d
been active for close on 50 years.
In Tpowoomba (Q.), at 74,. Brigadier Edgar
Maurice Ralph, D. 5.0., a Kitchener-faced two-
war Digger well known in northern military
circles AS. Australian schoolteacher who
took on soldiering in 1900, he was lieut.-colonel
by 1915 D.A.A.G. of both the 2nd and sth
Divisions in France. After the war holder of
several important positions, among them
Quartermaster-General of the Ist Military
District in Brisbane, he retired just brf° re
War II but was recalled to command Redbank
Camp. He was an A.D.C. to the Governor-
General.
At 82, in Melbourne, Charles French, former
Victorian Government biologist and a leading
authority on native insects, birds and plants.
One of the first members of the Field
Naturalists’ Club, he succeeded his father as
Government entomologist.


I
&
WHERE THERE ARE CATTLE
THERE, ALSO, DOES THE
BANK LEND A HAND
The call for more and more beef for
our own people, and for Britain, en-
courages the grazier to make the most
of his land; better pastures, better
watering and better cattle that will
produce better beef in less time. In all
these endeavours there are ways in
which his bank can help him. Its dozen
and one services aid him in his daily
work and life. They help him to make
the most of his opportunities.
The Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney Limited is Banker to thousands
of these eager men.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
The WHITENESS of the SAND
By PETER
BARKER
HE squatted down at the top
of the first row as the sun
came up over the orange-
trees on the other side of
the channel. He reached through
and pulled one of the dip-tins
under the leaves. He started to
pick, cutting the stems with the
curved picking-knife in his right
hand and guiding the dropping
bunches into the tin with his
left hand.
When his legs were tired he
went down further on to his
knees and crawled on down the
row. The dust from the big
vine-leaves filled his eyes, tasted
in his mouth and made gritty
runnels with the sweat down
inside his shirt. When he had
filled one bucket he took the next
from the tin-row. He left the
full one in the cart-row, just off
the wheel-tracks.
The bushes had been badly
pruned the winter before, and
filled out between the rows of
vines so that it was hard to reach
the fruit. Most of the time he
had to hold up the branches with
his back while he picked the
grapes from beneath.
After a time he heard the
squeaking of the cart and the
irregular plodding of the horse.
The cart went down one row to
the bottom of the block and up
the next cart-row. As it came
back towards him the man on the
cart threw the bundles of dip-
tins into the row beside him.
He stood up, stretched the
cramp from his legs, and called
to the man on the cart.
“Gooday, Bill.”
“Gooday, Don. Are the
buckets thick enough for you?”
“Give us one more bundle
every third panel, will you? It’s
a pretty good crop here. Getting
about six buckets to the vine.”
“That’s with the leaves.”
“Arr, cripes! What d’ y’
think I am?”
“Same as everyone else.”
“The new pickers on yet?”
asked Don.
Bill waved down towards the
end of the block.
“Yeah. They’re over there in
the Gordos.”
“You cruel cow, starting them
on them! You want to break
their backs the first day? They
must be green as the Gordos.”
Bill looked guilty. *
“Orr, well. They’ll make more
screw there than you
are,” he said. He
jiggled the reins and
whistled through his
teeth at the horse. The
cart moved off up to-
wards the channel.
Don watched as the
cart passed along the
top track and went
over the channel
bridge, then in among the
orange-trees.
I—J E knelt down to the vine
* * again. As he picked
mechanically on down the row
the sun rose and shone down
hotly on his head when he came
out from beneath the vine-
leaves. The air beneath the
vines became hotter. It no
longer tasted fresh to his lungs.
When he reached the end of the
row he sat down with his back
to the rough pine trellis-post and
ate a bunch of the sweet grapes
He let his face rest against the
wire of the trellis, but even that
felt hot.*
His back itched from the
sweat and dirt. He moved his
shoulders against the pine bark
and satisfied the itch. The sky
through the leaves was a filmy
blue. The sunlight shimmered
a little in the dusty haze that
hung over the vines. He looked
down at the soil. It was bright
red in the sun. A large fly flew
complainingly about in the sun-
light. It rested for a moment on
the edge of a big clod, but as it
settled its wings the soil crumbled
dryly and the fly buzzed errati-
cally off beneath the leaves.
He started picking again, at
the foot of the next row, and
moved on steadily until Bill
came again with the cart. As
Bill came up past him he called
out.
“I’ve left the tea with the
others, Don. Wait a tick till I
get rid of these buckets and I’ll
come across with you.”
Don walked up to the channel
and waited as Bill came up to-
wards him, throwing the bundles
of dip-tins from the cart. When
the cart came out empty from
the end of the row he jumped
onto the tray and swayed un-
steadily forward to stand beside
Bill in the front.
“Why didn’t you pick up my
tins last time, Bill?” he said.
“Haven’t got the dip ready yet.
I had to get one of the kids to
go into town for some soda. I’m
picking them up this trip.”
T' HEY rolled past the end of
* the high sultana-vines and
came to the small blue-green
Gordo rows. Down the slope,
al the far end of the block, a
small group of people were
sitting in one row. As the cart
went down towards them Bill
said to Don.
“They’re all the one family.
Come from down Turrit way.
They’ve got a bit of a farm down
there.” He spoke more quietly.
“The daughter’s a pretty good
sort, but you’d better look out
for the old man. He’s got a
mean look about him, like,”
He raised his voice and spoke
to the four people sitting about
the tea-billy.
“What’d you stay out in the
sun for? Why didn’t you move
down to the trees?”
The older man spoke.
“Orr, we’re pretty well used
to the sun. Spend all day out in
it, on a farm,”
“Yair. ' But I bet the missus
don’t, or young Di,” said Bill.
“Yes, I do. I do as much as
Dad or Bert out on the farm.”
The girl was sitting with her
back to the cart, and
she half-turned her head
to reply. Don saw the
strong brown chin and
the firm, flushed curve
of her cheekbone. Her
straight fair hair fell
about her face, and she
lifted it back with her
hand as they jumped
down from the cart.
“Pour out some tea for them,
Di,” said the mother.
The girl moved across to the
billy on her knees and poured
into the two cups beside it.
“This is Don Williams, and
that’s Dave Burke and his missus
and Bert and Di.” Bill waved
his arm vaguely around the
group as he spoke. “Don's work-
ing the sullies, over there.” He
pointed again, in the wrong
direction.
“Want sugar in it?” said the
girl, looking up at them.
“Yair. Thanks, Di,” said Bill.
Don grunted.
They took the thick cups and
sipped the strong black tea. Don
watched the girl over the top of
his mug as she moved back to
her seat against the vine. She
looked up at him and smiled at
his eyes.
“What’s it like, picking sul-
tanas?” she said.
Don and Bill looked at each
other.
“Better than Gordos,” said
Don.
“Yair, but you don’t get so
much a bucket,” said Bill.
“Haven’t you done any pick-
in’ before?” said Don.
The father answered.
“No, we wouldn’t have come
this time, either, only the drought
mucked the harvest.”
He was a heavy man. The
lines of his face that had been
firm once had sagged
into big pouches. His
skin was covered with a
rough fair stubble. His
hair was completely
without color and his
eyebrows frowned con-
tinually down over his
eyes. His shoulders, his
arms, his chest, even
his voice, all were
heavy in proportion to his face.
When he spoke the words seemed
to stretch out, quivering in the
dust-haze, and then settle among
the vines.
The girl’s brother lay with his
head under the leaves, smoking
a cigarette. The same skin that
in his lather had become red
and in his sister was brown wS
m him pasty and covered’ with
small pale freckles. The moflier
sat opposite the father the
row and smiled anxiously each
time he spoke. She bulged and
frayed like a worn sofa rI:
straw hat was frayed at the edges
and her grey hair escaped from
£f c n e eath ll ’ and floated about her
WP N n f ey had fmi shed the
V ; tea sllL5 llL collected the cups
and left them in the billy against
one of the trellis-posts. 8 1
“Will you help me load, Don?
I don t think young Donnie ’d
be back with the soda yet, else
he’d’ve been down to drive for
me Just as well I’ve got one
bloke on contract,” he said.
All right. It s a damn sight
better than picking.”/
Bill climbed onto the cart and
took up the reins. The cart
moved down the row. Don fof
lowed and lifted the full buckets
onto the cart as they passed
them. Bill moved across the
tray, stacking the buckets at the
front. They turned down under-
neath the almond-trees at the
bottom fence and the sparrows
flew away over the road on the
other side of the fence with a
great flutter of wings. They
went up into the next cart-row
As they came up past where the
new pickers were kneeling at the
vines, Don talked to the girl.
“Getting pretty hot now, isn’t
it?” he said.
She smiled. “I could do with
a swim.”
“Have you been down to the
river yet?”
“I’ve had a look, but I haven’t
been in yet.”
“It’s beaut swimming down
there. There’s a, big bend down
past the cliffs called Bottle
Bend. There’s a great big sand-
bank almost across the river.”
The cart had gone on past the
girl and she called out to him,
“You’ll have to show me where
to go.”
“All right. I’ll show you,” he
said. When he looked hack
next she had bent down to her
picking again. Don went on
loading until they reached the
top of the row. The cart was
almost full.
Bill said: “I’ll leave yours
again this trip, Don. Saves
getting them mixed up.”
“Ail right. But I’ll be getting
pretty short of buckets if y’ don’t
get the dippin’ going and get the
empties along.”
As Bill turned the cart onto
the channel bridge Don spoke
again.
“Hey, she’s a bit of all right,
isn’t she!”
“Yair,” said Bill. “A bit of
all right.”
Don walked down past the
sultana-vines, in the long grass
at the side of the channel. He
pulled a long, dry blade of spear-
grass and sucked air through it
in time to his walking. He
came to his row and went down
to where he had been picking.
He took out the sticky, juice-
stained picking-knife, knelt down
and started to fill the bucket.
The sparrows came back to the
almond-trees by the fence and
chattered incessantly. A few
flies hummed lazily in the heat.
Now and then a dusty hot puff
of wind rustled through the
leaves. Don picked automati-
cally and thought of the firm,
brown face of the girl picking
among the Gordos.
IT was a very hot night. It
* had been a cloudless, wind-
less dav and the night was very
clear. The moon was
so bright that it made
a deep blue of the sky.
The stars were large and
very steady. Don and
Di walked silently
across the paddock to-
wards the river. The
sun-dried grass was
very white in the moon-
light. A few grey belars
interrupted the whiteness. Ahead
of them they saw the dark line
of the big gums on the river
flats. Di broke the clear silence.
“I had to come and see the
river once in the moonlight, be-
fore we left, whatever Dad says.
(i Continued on page 23.)


BRANDTS World Famous
EN&LISH "TILLEY" Lighting Appliances
I
I
i
BRANDTS Famous “Tilley”
Kerosene Stormproof lantern
gives a brilliant white light
of 300 c.p. Strongly made.
A lamp of true British crafts-
manship. Safe and OI /„
easy to operate '
g
3
2
2
BRANDTS latest "Tilley” Kero-
sene Table Damp, with most
attractive parchment Shade.
Gives a brilliant white light of
800 c.p. Is easy and OO /
safe to use, 16Jin. high, ** /
21in. high, £5/9/-.
ve immediate attention.
BRANDTS Pty. Ltd.
APPLIANCE
SPECIALISTS
SINCE 1878.
371 PITT STREET, SYDNEY - - - PHONE M 4651
TILLEY. LAMPS
WATCH FOR—
‘‘HAPPY’’ MANTLES
THIS ENTIRELY NEW AND PATENTED
FEATURE OF GENUINE “ TILLEY ” MANTLES
WILL SURPRISE AND DELIGHT YOU.
NO MORE FIDDLING
WHEN FITTING!!
SUPPLIES ARE NOW ON THE WAY TO
AUSTRALIA FROM OUR FACTORY.
ASK YOUR LOCAL DEALER OR, IF IN ANY
DIFFICULTY, WRITE TO OUR AUSTRALIAN
REPRESENTATIVES:—
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
: : V-
KtGD
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPAMY LTD. OF ENGLAND
SUNDRY SHOWS
Poor Blanche.
The sad, sad tale of the
Southern aristocrat Blanche, a
related in Tennessee Williams’
“A Streetcar Named Desire,” a
Sydney Royal, seems to have
its beginnings somewhere in the
fact that her “improvident grand-
fathers and father and uncles and
brothers exchanged the land for
their epic fornications,” leaving
her only the house and 20 acres
and the task of watching the
remnants of the family go their
way to the family graveyard
Added to her worries was the
fact that the young man with
whom she fell madly in love
and married turned out to be a
homosexual and committed
suicide after she found out and
announced that she was dis-
gusted with him.
According to Mr. Williams’s
narrative the effect of those two
disasters was to turn Blanche into
a mixture of nymphomaniac and
prostitute when her finances re-
quired it “intimacies with
strangers was all I seemed able
to fill my empty heart with,” on
the one hand, and “have got to
be seductive ... to pay for one
night’s shelter,” on the other-
witti the result that she was
finally tossed out of her hotel,
declared out of bounds to the
army and asked to leave town.
Poor Blanche, desperately
seeking refuge and, at this stage,
a little worn behind her aristo-
cratic pose, arrives at her sister’s
home in the poorer quarter of
New Orleans and turns up her
nose at both the home and her
sister’s husband, an unintellec-
tual, healthy male living by and
enjoying his senses. Not having
saved for security, she grasps at
it in the form of marriage to one
of her brother-in-law’s friends;
this last chance of survival is
snatched from her when her
brother-in-law ferrets out her
past and warns off her prospec-
tive husband, ravishes her him-
self while his wife is in hospital
having a baby and, finally, sees
her carted off to a mental asylum
while he and three companions
determinedly enjoy a game of
poker.
After enduring the ride on Mr.
Williams’s streetcar one pardon-
ably looks for the reason for the
depressing journey, and, in such
a parade of misery, one looks
first for the elements of natural
tragedy. Those being conspicu-
ously absent, one looks for the
only other thing: a moral. That
could be anything from “You
Can’t Win” or “They Done Her
Wrong” to “Tramps Ain’t
Got No Place to Go,” but one
is forced to the heartless con-
elusion that the main moral is
Sex Makes Dahlars on Broad-
way.”
But there are few things
more depressing than the heavy
American blend of sex, sordid-
ness and sentimentality. If one
must take it secondhand, how
infinitely more enjoyable it
is to go to the French; to Mau-
passant, Chevallier or Pagnol
to the living human comedies of
Clochemerle, the drama oJ;
“Mademoiselle Fifi,” the exuber-
ant good humor of “Maison
Tellier,” or the wonderful dissec-
tion of “Ball of Fat.”
True, “Streetcar” is written
with a good deal of skill and
dramatic intensity and it has, or
should have, a certain colorful-
ness. Actual physical color,
too, seems to have been stipu-
lated by the author to offset the
drabness of his material —the old
white building against a
turquoise-blue sky, Blanche in a
scarlet satin robe, the diagonal
green and white stripes of the re-
furnished bedroom, and the
poker game like a Van Gogh
painting with bright yellow lino-
leum, vivid green lightshade, the
men’s shirts in raw primary
colors and the crimson slices of
watermelon on the table.
True, also, some keen observa-
tion of neurotic women as well
as some study of mental cases
seem to have been written into,
the part of Blanche. Played with
all its color, together with the
sex and intensity that, say,
Vivien Leigh might give the
main role, plus the handsome
male assertiveness of someone
like Bonar Colleano, the whole
piece could come to some sort
of queer, lurid, distorted life.
But even those qualities could
only disguise without altering
the fact that the play is, at its
foundations, a sentimental melo-
drama.
The performance at the Royal
doesn’t even disguise the fact
very successfully. The accent
is prudish and on squalor and
bestiality rather than color and
sex, and the production misses
the “raffish charm” completely.
The old New Orleans building
is just a drab slum, Blanche is
toned down to a pale-blue gown,
the bedroom furnishings become
a modest print and the poker
scene is reduced to a beery mess.
Towards the end of her per-
formance Viola Keats gives
Blanche a tortured, agitated
quality that is quite moving,
and she makes a graceful
plunge into the final void of
complete insanity; but in the
main her performance is one of
pallid pathos rather than tragedy.
The part of the husband also
seems to have been watered
down, and with muddy water.
Arthur Franz makes him rather
like a grubby and bad little boy
instead of the vain, handsome
and possessive male animal that
the play suggests. Adele Long-
mire, as the gentle wife luxuri-
ating in. her husband’s qualities
while trying to cope with the
animosity between him and her
sister, seems to have the best
grasp of her role and the play.
The rest of the cast manage with-
out distinction.
D.
"Song of Norway."
If Edvard Grieg, the Nor-
wegian composer, who died in
1907, could look down onto the
crowded boards of His Majesty’s
Theatre, Melbourne, at the
present moment, he would be
astounded and delighted. He
would be delighted at the music,
since he wrote it himself, and,
moreover, it is being admirably
played by Gabriel loffe’s orch-
estra, and in some cases beauti-
fully sung by Marjorie Cooke,
Hendrik de Boer, Doreen Wilson
and the chorus.
The composer would be
astounded at seeing himself in
the ineffectual person of Charles
Doming and would probably
think: “If that’s what I’m like,
how on earth did I write my
music?” Looking over his
shoulder, Schubert might say:
“Cheer up, old man. They did
worse than that to me once.”
Grieg might also reflect* that
when he was on this earth he
was tortured by the wheezes, due
to incipient asthma. Mr. Doming
hasn’t the wheezes—in fact, he
sings some of Grieg’s loveliest
lyrics in the loveliest manner—
but if the theatrical confectioners
responsible for the production
have got most of their facts
about Grieg right, they have
hung a pretty poor story on
them.
Grieg is romantically in love
with a village maiden, for whom
Rikard Nordvaak, the patriot
Norwegian poet, harbors an even
more sentimental affection.
Grieg has promised to set one
of Rik’s poems to music, but is
seduced from both his friend and
his girl by Louisa Giovanni, a
temperamental prima donna. As
her accompanist he follows her
all over Europe, still writing
deathless music. He meets
Henrik Ibsen and is inspired to
write the music for “Peer Gynt.”
He reluctantly marries his first
love because it is a Norwegian
custom and the Norwegian Gov-
ernment gives him a house and
a pension and he retires to the
ice of Norway to compose more
deathless music.
All the time the ladies and
gentlemen of the ensemble pour
out his glorious music in pro-
fusion, and the loveliest ballet
J.C.W. has assembled for a long
time, led by Strelsa Heckelman,
a charming ballerina, dances to
the music of “Peer Gynt,” poured
out by the orchestra.
There is conscious as well as
unconscious humor in the pro-
duction. Freddy (Harry Naugh-
ton) and his Fiddle are com-
pletely married to Grieg in his
holiday mood, while Robert
Bernard gives a priceless study
of an impresario tormented by
prima donnas.
Bianca Mascolo.
The Italian soprano, giving
her first Sydney recital, spread
her voice over a notably wide
range of songs. Mostly those in
the first group—of the early
Italian period—were of easy
gamut, and this was fortunate,
for some initial nervousness
found the singer not alway
meticulous as to pitch and
straining a little in the uppe
reaches. As the recital pro
gressed her voice improved anc
relaxed, with the result that he
singing of a Puccini operati
group was quite authoritative,
' Italian opera is very obviously
this soprano’s forte. Her voic
is light in timbre, and in th
coloratura sphere more flexibility
is needed, but it is admirably
suited to such roles as Mimi,
Violetta and Gilda. Also, he
lieder was quite artistic
Brahms’s “The Vain Suit” was
invested with a captivating mis*-
chievousness, whilst Schubert’s
“Die Forelle” was fresh and
spontaneous.
* * * *
Jean Cocteau’s “The Type-
writer,” presented by the
professional Mercury Mobile
Players at 2KY Radiotorium,
Sydney, is much more than the
“sex-laden thriller” the advertise-
ments suggested. It portrays
the narrow life of a French pro-
vincial town, and is a study in
bigotry, bogus respectability,
social frustration and mental
torment. To lid the town of
those things an anonymous
letter-writer —signed “The Type-
writer”—brings to light, one by
one, the skeletons in many
closets. The intentions are good,
but four people suicide, so the
Law, in the person of an amiable
and philosophical detective, steps
in and tracks down the informer.
Lenore Blackwood, Sheila
Macafee, John Unicomb, John
Hoskin and John Brunskill
handled the piece very well.


came over to borrow the bike. “Now
look at your grandmother ... a lovely
culchered lady like that. Isn’t she
wonderful for her age? She must
be”
“Have you got your son married yet?”
I asked hastily.
“No, not yet. I thought we had him
just about fixed up last month. A bonzer
girl she was, too: just the girl for Wally,
I says to Mum, and she says ‘Well, for
goodness’ sake hold your tongue. Dad,’
she says, ‘and dqn’t go and spoil things
again.’ But the girl went and married a
bloke with a flash pub at the corner:
and a flop of a bloke he was, too —a
real flop of a bloke.”
THE Beach Barnacle anathema to
Bosco is old Wills. A frail six-feet of
him, ever felt-hatted, with hands in his
pockets. He. teeters on his heels and
regards through thick lenses the like of
Bosco, and makes a few remarks for the
little man’s mortification.
“I met old Wills when I was coming
over this morning.” Bosco remarked
when he just popped in to see if I had
a stamp about me. “Eighty next birth-
day he is, and he had the cheek to say
to me ‘Why don’t you put your trousers
on, Dad?’ he says. ‘lt’s not fit for old
men like you and me to be getting round
in shorts.’
“‘You get to hell!’ I says, ‘l’ll get
round in whatever I like.’ He’ll get a slap
on the gob one of these days, will old
Willsy. He’s got far too much to say.”
Mrs. Wills though, according to
Bosco, is quite all right. “You couldn’t
kill that woman with an axe.” A dark
restless little slip of a woman, black shoe-
button eyes, and as quick as a lizard.
I was all the more astounded to hear
that she was dead. Grannie came home
with the news, which in the ordinary
course of events I should have heard in
Andy’s shop. What do we keep Andy
for? Not that he suffers from any
aphonia: but his own loquacity is per-
force restricted in the auditive interests
of his customers.
Grannie sought verification from the
baker, who naturally knows it all. Yes.
Mrs. Wills was dead for certain, poor
lady. She died quite suddenly . . . yes,
last night.
I broke the news to Mrs. Tim when I
went there in quest of a lettuce. And
poor Mrs. Tim was horrified to hear it.
What would poor old Wills do now?
Then, as a devout Catholic, Mrs. Tim
must set about getting the deceased
“prayed for.”
At Andy’s shop on the way back, I
remarked on what the local paper would
call this sad demise in our midst, and
Andy exclaimed “Go on!” I went on,
to his circular-eyed and profound con-
sternation: but Andy, recovering from
his greenish pallor, assured me that he
would be sure to know, if it were true.
“Old Pop Wills is in here two or three
times a day, and he didn’t mention it.
He was here half an hour ago. Oh, no,
Mrs. Wills can’t be dead or I’d be sure
to know all about it.”
On the way home, I met Mrs. Hyde, a
depleted little woman, as pathetic as a
dead sparrow. She seemed glad to
exchange a few words over the fence.
I told her that in an aberrant moment
I had been stepping round putting my
foot in it, by telling the neighborhood
that Mrs. Wills had departed this life:
I had even told Mrs. Tim, and set the
poor old dear praying for the repose of
her neighbor’s soul —and that one as
active as a cat over the fence.
“But Mrs. Wills is dead,” Mrs. Hyde
replied.
“Well, Andy has just been telling me
that she is very much alive: so now I’ll
have to go back and tell poor old Mrs.
Tim to hold her horses and her prayers.”
“But Mrs. Wills is certainly dead. She
died last night.”
Apparently everyone had heard of it,
except the lady’s husband. But how was
I to know that in the three-mile length
of Barnacle Beach there were at least
three Mrs. Willses? One here, one two
miles away at the post-office, and one
living down the road at Tallygohoppin-
tobillyo Creek.
l_J AVING acquired all that portion of
1 I the continent, registered 32 perches
with a 66-ft. frontage and a string of
municipal subs in the parish of Tally-
gohopping, shire of Comealongdoo, I
had yet to acquire a builder.
Grannie, with a mind receptive to a
suitable label for a house by the sea, had
in her peregrinations become sated with
the sapience of “Dome,” “Dous,”
“Youanme,” “Meanyou” and “It’lldo”
ad nauseam. Nobody had thought of
“It’llhavetodo,” more in keeping with the
building regulations. Why not a double-
decker, to be duly labelled “Gosh” up-
stairs and “Gripes” down below, where a
snide-built flat could be let, ostensibly to
relatives, for twenty-five guineas a week?
First of all, find a builder —and nail
him to the spot.
But one fine day a little Irish devil
drove a little green car through the
bracken to the walls of the shack and
shouted through the louvres, “I hear yez
are wanting a house built.”
“For heaven’s sake, come in,” I wel-
comed him. “There’s a door to this
joint somewhere round the back, if you
can find it.”
Norm was a dark mischievous little
trick of a bloke, with all the local
loquacity plus nerves and energy. He
hitched up his shorts plus nothing else,
and rolled a cigarette as he asked, “What
sort of house do youse want?”
Plans and a house design were a sur-
prise to him. “Now, this is something to
work on . . . most people don’t know
what they want.”
He licked his cigarette-paper and fell
upon the plan to reconstruct the whole
thing according to his heart’s desire. I
had the next twelve months to work that
out of Norm: while he promised to have
youse in for Christmas and went off to
another job.
JN the meantime the plans and speci-
* fications for a permanent residence
on sub. fortynine with all its string of
beads in the parish of Tallygohopping
had gone to the municipal barnacles of
Comealongdoo; and the great panjan-
drum, the honorable the Minister for
Labor and Insolence, sat on the lot of
them. It was just the long leg of co-
incidence that thirteen plans were sub-
mitted on that thirteenth day of April,
and that it was thirteen weeks to the
day until I managed to wrest my plans
from officialdom. The others, I’m afraid,
are still there, where that rare bird, alias
the great auk, sits on the nests of the
homeless.
Then Norm hitched up his diminutive
shorts again and got to work full of en-
thusiasm to “get yez in for Christmas”
by hook or by crook. Mostly by crook,
I fear, for the truth was not in the little
devil —not when a bloke could so well
dispense with it. From the first he called
the old lady Mum, to her stately sur-
prise. But builders, the darlings, might
melt! So Grannie said, “Wait till the
little wretch gets the house finished;
then I’ll Mum him!”
But Norm had melting black eyes and
a disarming grin: and he worked like
the “little Irish devil digging taters in
the moonlight with his tail cocked up,”
Certainly his offsider boiled the dinner
billy and set the surrounding scrub on
fire; and certainly an old carthorse
emeritus wandered round on his last
stage and finally collapsed into our septic-
pit. But that was the plumber’s penulti-
mate problem, and ours the entertain-
ment.
The plumber’s other problem was a
bath. But Norm fixed that. “I’ll make
yez a tiled bath. People are all going
mad over me tiled bathrooms.”
Even at so great a risk to our sanity
Norm hitched up his little breeches anc
built-in a green-tiled bath with the walls
and floors. With a green-taifed mantis
to match it, Grannie’s only complaint is
that the bottom of the bath is cold in
conjunction with that of an octogenarian
Though what I wanted with a hot shower
was beyond Norm’s comprehension.
What was wrong with the outside arrange-
ment, where one might find oneself
placidly showering with a green snake
draped round the tap?
“Youse can shift in on Wednesday,”
Norm said when the house was more-or-
less finished for Christmas. “I seen the
electric bloke this morning and he
promised he’ll come on Wednesday after-
noon.” That’s what electricians are for.
What Norm seen, I don’t know now,
and I’m not likely to know in the here-
after. What we did not see was any
electrician about. At six o’clock I
trudged back to Andy’s store and bought
a candle and another bottle of methylated
for the spirit-stove. After haunting the
nearest public telephone for another fort-
night, I at last induced a mechanic to
crank up for Barnacle Beach. “Oh, yes,
I’ll blow down now.”
So at five-thirty the electric bloke blew
down and switched on the light and
power at last. At six-thirty an electric
storm blew up and switched it all off
again.
BUT morning came. When the sun
pulled itself like a grotesque Chinese
lantern over the rim of the ocean and
thawed the ink in my blood, I perched a
pencil behind my ear and tried my poetic
pinions with the penultimate pome to
beat The Bulletin’s “Bellerive.” I had
perpetrated “The Jack larfed on the letter-
box,” as doubtless he will, when Bosco
came over to borrow the bike-pump.
Dolphins were wheeling dark fins along
behind the** breakers; and Bosco ex-
claimed, “Look at the bloomin’ fish! I
can see them ploppin’ down there.”
He sprinted across to the sand-dunes
for a better view ; and stood, man’s puny
figure against the immensity of sea and
sky and unbroken miles of shrf —and I
knew that I would have to lend him my
fishing-line. If I was sure I didn’t mind.
Anyway, I’m a halieutic adept likely
to get myself snarled up in a fishing-line:
and more likely to cast hook and sinker
into my left ear than out to the deeps.
So I was duly edified when the Barnacle
fishing company, having got wind of that
shoal, arrived right on the spot with two
trucks, two trailers, two boats, how many
oars, two nets and the dog—to say no-
thing of a dozen hefty men in short®
to catch a fish for me rts ’
*5 F°£ d the dail y Fisho bawlin*
along the highway, while we promised
ourselves fresh fish for lunch an?
the entertainment. For fully an hour the
twelve apostles prowled round the sea
scape with binoculars, and finally settled
tX ‘, hC hor ! Zomal ’ ,he P-PendS
nd the triangular, on our frontage to
Sh ?‘ to « off
i. fw Tu Thats what the baker told
us that they were doing—they hailed him
to chuck oyer a few loaves in passing--
Ss wait , ed more or
less, until five o clock in the evening
when they packed up. g ’
We fried eggs instead of fish.
“HS? the 7 COmc again >” Gra nnie
said next morning, after I had
pursued Fisho for half a & mile to buy a
flathead. There they were again too
to sprawl all over our frontagl, to pull
up erosion-checking creepers, to yank
out my imported Marram-grass and poke
tdei ji, with it. To wear down the
sandbank, to the old lady’s consternation
and, I assured her, to ruin the beach for
miles.
After five or six hours of piscine per-
versity, we were considering whether
twelve good men would like some
cushions out there. Or perhaps the wire-
less turned on. Would they like some tea
and hot scones ? Or would they like the
hose turned full blast on all that imposing
row of backsides?
Grannie admits no such indelicate
vyord to her sanctified vocabulary: but
she was relishing the prospect of their
astoundment at a blast of water from the
rear when the twelve good men suddenly
upended and removed provocation by
slapping the sandy posteriors and pockets
with the evident intention of getting a
move on at last.
Yes. They were taking the truck
down.
There goes the boat.
When they actually pushed the boat
into the surf. Grannie perched on the
doorstep and, dithering with excitement
was yearning to be aboard.
“Why can’t they take us?”
“Shall I sprint down and ask if they
have room for any elderly women?”
“Who are you calling elderly?” Grannie
scoffed. She is only eighty-five.
Look out, you fools, you’ll get your
pants wet! You bet they’ll tip 'that
boat over.”
Past the second breaker. Heavenward
over the third. The next turned the boat
broadside on in a choppy sea. Then a
green comber reared a wall of water
over them and left the whole caboodle
upside-down in the foam, with twelve
good men swimming after an upturned
boat and rescuing oars and nets in the
pounding surf.
“What a damned pity that Grannie
had not been aboard the lugger.”
It took twelve good men and the dog
another hour to get the dinghy ashore
and cleaned out and the nets untangled
and refolded. By that time the elusive
shoal had gone for a swim.
We put the flathead on for lunch; and
it was just sizzling when Grannie called,
“They’re starting out again.”
WHEN the nets are hauled in, all
Barnacle Beach troops down to one
of the oldest scenes in history—and surely
the most fascinating.
Certainly we all flocked down to the
water’s edge and got well in the Way
of men in wet shorts heaving box-loads
of shining silver tailer into the waiting
truck: and certain it is that we all put
our beaks over the edge of the truck and
promptly stepped back with an eyeful of
tail-flipped wet sand from the writhing
nacreous mass. Yet with the fatality of
a flock of sheep, we each in turn stepped
up for mud in the eye or a flip bn the
proboscis.
The children paddling in were trying
to catch the last of the shoal swimming
so deftly iii shadowy silver in the pool
of the enclosing net: while that terrier,
barking in excited circles, was not con-
vinced that all his efforts to secure a
little fish would only catch him an
astonished mouthful of salt water.
Swinging my purchase by the tail, I
passed Bosco —still holding a forlorn and
useless line.
Not so useless, though!
As the trucks were starting off for the
city market the boss of the outfit hailed
Bosco and considerately tossed over a
shining four-pounder.
Me! MacKnowitall! I was sure I
didn’t mind paying four bob for a fish
—when if I had used a fraction of my
superfluous intelligence, I had only to
trail a lone line in the wake of a shoal-
scooping outfit.
When we reached the cottage we were
assailed by a harrowing smell.
“Hell! What’s burning?”
Fish —flathead!
VARIOUS VERSE
LOST BIRD.
No waves crash on the bleached shore
Of grizzled stone bleak as the frost,
Greyer than the fibred bone.
No noise but the brittle overtone
Of a sea-bird lost.
Flat of frozen sea with shore . . .
No movement thrills the marrowless
bone,
Ice-fingers stir the blood;
Only to spurn the fragile mood.
The bird’s shrill monotone.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.
GLASS-TOP.
The sea was quieter than the sky
where the clouds broke and joined
hugely and silently.
The sea was softer than the grass
that lapped on the cliff and sang
wordless and wave-sad.
The sea was darker than her eyes
where there was nothing to be read,
empty and pain-filled.
I remember nothing that we said,
only the glass-top roof of the sea
clouding and breaking.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.
THE BUSHMAN’S GIRL.
One morning I climbed the blind slope
to the ridge
Beyond the valley, waded through the
ash,
Dead as whey and light as floss, and
took
The mistletoe you gave me dark to my
flesh.
It was the day after the burning of the
scrub.
So fantastically silent it seemed
Too much for the bird’s heart or mine
to bear.
This transmutation of everything
To anonymous ash struck us echoless
And burnt an eerie vacancy in earth.
I looked along the empty acres and saw
You coming—the sinewed sun-brown
flame that blew
Through beauty —— treading conquest
into the hillside.
And for the moment I forgot I loved
you.”
N.S.W.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.
LET LOVE BE THEN.
Let love be then
unshared, unknown:
song of the wren
from sunless stone
cliff-face, as one
floreted spear
of grass-tree upon
its steep fallen sheer.
Let desire turn
secret, intense
as banksias burn
red-gold in dense
scrub, for the mind
must, from its own
being, strength find:
flower from the stone.
Here trees have thrust
ruins apart;
here the source must
staunchless start.
By this dark sea,
time shall destroy;
here poetry
cries out in joy.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.


i Mtfdm
W.
Price
£7/5/6
f /I
fir j
'/ HI m
yiij®
K'vy*:; //:•// Ptf/ufj
iPw ;; /////^
/
Hi&n/
((fa
You couldn't choose a more
exciting and modern girt than
Philishave for "the man who
matters." And you couldn t
choose a more sensible one.
Philishave means faster, cleaner
shaves the end of "stubble-
trouble" smoother cheek and
chin that you. too. will appreciate.
IT FITS HIS HAND
AND FLATTERS HIS EGO
ONLY
£7's'6
COMPLETE WITH ZIPPERED CASE
i
ROTARY ACTION
ELECTRIC SHAVER
Famous as Philips Lamps
PS#-BO
i n
Setting new standards
performance throughout .
wmmm
* j 4
- * <h>nrS
u
m m I
■
5-;
iH
m
■H
1 H iHi n
>;:... ■. -f.
miMm
mm
Near Cairns, Q'ld., Nuffield
Universal Tractor in 3rd
gear trailing 3 - furrow
Massey - Harris “ Sunlord'
30in. disc plough, cutting
3 furrows I2in . by 22in .
mmm
m
•%
mm
wm
m
■
-'i
■
m
For sheer performance, the Nuffield Universal
continues to amaze experienced factor
operators throughout Australia. In all-round
service, under all conditions working with
all types of trailed equipment and tractor-
mounted implements, too it has proved
absolutely outstanding. Its dependability and
efficiency are what you d expect of a INulticld
Product . . . built and backed by a name you
can trust! .
FULL DETAILS AND SPECIFICATIONS
AVAILABLE FROM STATE DISTRIBUTORS.,
NSW* PETER LLOYD LTD., 213-217 Eliiabeth Street.
W VERINA P KEL LO FALK I N N D
METRO MOTORS PTV. LTD., 36-38 Arqyte Street, HOBART. Phone 4061.
m i i
po
it MASeniftkiiff..
it DOESeverythin^..
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. VICTORIA PARK. ZETLAND. NEW SOUTH WALES
“Didn’t you tell them you
were coming?”
“No. I waited till they were
asleep, and then I came out the
back of the tent where it was
rolled up.” She laughed.
“Golly, my stretcher creaked
when 1 got off it. 1 thought it’d
wake them up, sure.”
“I didn’t know what it was
when you came and woke me,”
said Don.
“Gee, I hope Dad doesn t
wake up and find me gone. Oh,
well, blast him. I’m going to
come down if I want. Gee, it’s
a beaut sandbank, isn’t it? The
sand’s so white and clean.
There’s some lakes down near
our farm but it’s muddy and red
sand. Not like the river.”
They were at the trees. It
was very dark at first when they
went from the moonlight into the
shadow. The big gums rose fatly
about them to the drooping
leaves. It was very quiet. They
heard a light flutter above them
as birds sleepily changed their
positions. A few mosquitoes
hummed softly. Their feet
crackled on the dried leaves and
bark that covered the hard mud.
Dori kicked a stick, and the far
end swished upwards from
among the leaves. Now and
then they walked over a bright
patch of moonlight and looked
upwards at the whiteness of the
moon. They walked down the
steep side of a billabong and
saw the reflection of the moon
on the yellow, water. A few
long-legged insects darted side-
ways on the surface of the water
and made multiple circular
ripples.
They walked around the side
of the billabong just above the
wet mud at the edge. On the
ground where they walked were
short tufts of grass and cloven
cow-tracks. They went up the
far bank of the billabong, step-
ping on the exposed roots of a
big gum-tree that leant out over
the water. There was a short
space to cross and then they were
at the bank of the river and
looking across the slow, smooth
sweep of the water. The far
bank was Huffily serrated by the
trees, black against the blue of
the sky.
They walked along the bank
and through the trees, towards
the bend. The high bank shelved
lis they went on and the ground
>ecame. sandy with a few tufts of
»rass. Di sighed and murmured
o herself. v She took hold of his
ileeve and shook it a little,
“Gee, Don. Isn’t it wonder-
mi ! ”
They could see the sandbank
through the trees, sweeping out
into the river, magnificently,
purely white against the black-
ness of the high bank on the
other side. She ran on ahead,
and he watched her as she
passed through the trees and out
onto the sand. She threw her-
self down into the sand and lay
quite still. When he came up to
her she turned her head over
towards him. Her hair lay for-
wards over her head, spread out
on the sand. She whispered to
him.
“Sh-h-h. Listen! ”
He went down onto the sand
and put his face close to hers.
“Listen to the river talking,”
she said.
He heard the gurgle of the
water in the rocks on the far
side. In the deep backwater at
the side of the sandbank a fish
leapt and splashed loudly.
“That was a hiccup,” he said.
SHE laughed silently and
rolled her shoulders over so
that she looked up at the sky.
He watched her face. She took
a handful of sand and threw it
away from them,
, “Oh ... I’m so happy,” she
said. “I want to bundle every-
thing up and have it all inside
me, somehow.”
“I like to close my eyes and
to know that it’s all there and I
can have it again just by opening
them,” he said.
She sat up and looked at him.
“Let’s go for a swim, eh,
Don? Hey? Let’s go for a
swim.”
Don said nothing. He dug his
fingers hard into the sand.
“Come on! Don’t you want
to?”
“Yes. I want to’
“But what?” . „
“Your Mum wouldn’t like it,
he said sheepishly.
“ ’Cos we haven’t got togs ?
We always swum in the dam
without them!”
“All right then. You go m
first.” „
“Well, look the other way.
He turned and looked towards
the trees. He heard the rustle
of her dress behind him. Soon
he heard the little sound of her
feet in the sand as she ran out
towards the water. She called
Ito him.
“You can look now.
He turned and saw her stand-
ing in the water. She stood half-
turned to him, with her arms
crossed on her chest. He saw
the slim, long curve of her thigh.
He felt the great, unbearable
tenderness deeply within him for
the night, and the sand in the
moonlight, and for her, in the
night, on the sand. His hands
stopped their trembling and he
felt suddenly light and free.
“Come on,” she called.
He scrambled out of his
clothes and ran down to where
she had stood. He could just
see her head above the surface,
well out into the river. He
waded out in the shallow water
to the end of the sandbank. The
water was very warm and the
air was still hot above it. He
swam out to her and stopped
some way off.
“Let’s swim over to the other
side,” she said.
They swam side by side and
came in towards the bank where
a dry creek-bed cut through the
cliff to the water.
“Ooh —golly! I’ll have to
have a rest before we go back,”
she said.
THEY left the water where
the creek-bed was lowest
and came out on to dry white
sand. The sand was surfaced
with little wavy wind-ridges.
Ahead of them the creek curved
round a sharp bend and on the
bank above the bend a solitary
dead tree groped crazily towards
the moon. They sat down on
the sand and looked back to-
wards the other side. The high
banks on the creek framed the
view of jthe river and trees, and
the whiteness of the sandbank
cut brightly across the centre.
As they watched there was a
movement by the trees.
“Looks like a couple of
people,” whispered Don,
“Gee, I winder who they
are?” Di said by his ear.
The two vague figures came
out onto the sandbank and
stopped near the centre.
“Gripes, that’s where our
clothes are,” said Don, “They
might take them. I’ll go across,
Di.”
As they went down to the
water the figures came on again
and they heard her father call
across the water.
“Come here, Di! ” he said.
“Gee whiz! What’ll I do,
Don?” Her voice trembled.
Don swore softly.
“I’ll go over and see them,”
he said.
She thought for a moment.
“No. I’d better. I know
what’s best to say. But I’m a
bit scared.”
“But I can’t let you”
“Go on. It was my idea in
the first place. I know what’s
best with him,”
“All right, then.”
He watched while she swam
across. The two on the other
side waited by the water. He
saw her rise out of the water
and walk towards the others.
He heard them speak but could
not tell the words. Once he
heard a slap and she cried out.
He felt sick through to his feet
with impotence and the earlier
deep tenderness. The three
moved over to where their
clothes were and then back into
the trees.
DON waited, watching the
emptiness of the .sandbank
and remembering her beside him.
He stood up finally, dived into
the water and swam quickly
across. He came out on to the
sand and shook and rubbed most
of the water from his body. He
dressed while he was still wet
and walked away from the river
towards the trees.
As he came up near the trees
the two men came out from the
shadows where they had been
waiting. Dave Burke looked
greyly massive in the moonlight.
Bert, the son, stood just behind
and a little to the side. Neither
spoke. Don tried to say some-
thing but only cleared his throat
dryly.
“Get hold of his arms, Bert,
said the old man.
The younger man moved
round behind Don. Don turned
sideways so that they were on
each side of him. He found he
could speak.
“What is it? What do you
want?”
“It’s no use you trying to run,
either. Bert’ll get you.”
“You might give a bloke a
fair go. One at a time, that’s
fair enough, isn’t it?” Don’s
voice broke as he finished speak-
ing. . ...
“We’d give you a fair go it
you was worth it,” said the old
man. As Don watched him Bert
jumped at him from behind and
held him around the chest with
his arms at his sides. He
struggled silently for a moment
and then stood still.
“All right, then. Go on, do
what you want and be damned
to you!” he said.
Old Burke drew away a little
and swung at his face. The fist
caught his cheek-bone, and a red-
hot shriek of pain went through
his head. He screwed his eyes
shut with the pain as the next
one came low in his stomach.
He sagged downwards and felt
the next behind his ear. Bert
lifted him again and Dave Burke
hit him once, twice in the mouth
and then a last time squarely on
the chin,
HE was on the river again and
the smooth dark water was
rushing past hi% ears with the
sound of a waterfall. The trees
were immensely high above him,
high even to the stars. He was
falling, such a long time falling,
and it didn’t seem to stop the
falling that he was lying on the
ground. Somewhere, high up
limong the trees, he could see
he two faces and he heard the
sounds, the mumbling of the
voices. And then he was alone,
lying by himself on the prick-
ling spear-grass with his head on
the sand;
He lay there for a long time.
When he felt steady he walked
down to the water and washed
the taste of the blood from his
mouth. The inside of his lips
felt loose and torn. He ran his
tongue over them and explored
the torn edges. He washed his
face and dried it with the end
of his shirt.
He walked back slowly
through the trees and across the
paddock towards the vines. He
thought of nothing but the big-
ness, the clearness, the whiteness
of the sandbank and of her face
as she lay in the moonlight with
her hair falling forward over her
head onto the sand.


BANK
or
AUSTRALASIA
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND
NEW ZEALAND AND IN LONDON
©FFERS the services of its Travel Departments with all
facilities for Travellers in Australia and abroad. The
Overseas Departments will also assist you with their ex-
perience on all aspects of overseas trade introductions and
enquiries, and all foreign exchange matters. Enquiries
will be welcomed at any Branch of the Bank.
AGENTS o CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
EST.
*
I S 3
1833
BAS-IB*
I J
i -1 ill KB
*%* f‘i
m
/letrfctmance
Fill a Sparklets Syphon with
water, “charge” it with a
Sparklets Bulb—and in-
stantly a syphon of fresh
zesty ‘soda* is yours!
Refilling takes only a few
moments.
Ask your dealer for particulars
of new Standard and Streamline
models, or write for illustrated
folder to
WILCOX
MOFFLIN LTD.
BRANCHES IN AIL STATES
Australian Distributors for:
v//>
V//y
SPARKLETS LTD., LONDON N. 18
THE SERVICE MAN
KOREA NEAR CRISIS.
“Ek Dum”: Correspondents
in Korea, free of censorship,
showed themselves astonished
when the advancing Communists
were compelled to pause after
having made a series of crossings
of the Kum River.
Patrols and fighting units in
retreat always magnify the forces
which have driven them to re-
tirement. Hence probably the
clouds of elephantine weapons
which have been discovered roll-
ing down the boggy Korean
tracks, some of them miracu-
lously carried to the spots where
they are found and leaving
readers themselves to face the
problem, for instance, of how
60-ton tanks have been trans-
ported 150 miles from the border
on Korea’s rickety railways,
and over bridges, all of which,
on the main routes, it has been
asserted again and again are
down, having been destroyed.
Truth, however, emerges
frpm her hiding-place at times,
and tells the real story by in-
ference. Again and again the
number of a single battalion,
the 34th which the Press
wiped out cleanly early in
the war, but which proved on
that occasion to have had only
two men killed and some
wounded—is mentioned. De-
spite its preliminary immolation
it was still there to provide the
“last troops to leave Taejon.”
And the same applies to divi-
sions—the 24th appears by name
in connection with actual fight-
ing ; the rest are either
anonymous or just in the offing.
It all suggests that till the Kum
line was reached the fighting
had been only on a battalion
scale in U.S. advanced sectors,
and that only one division of
U.S. troops was committed any-
where. Last week two other
divisions, the Ist mechanised
from Hokkaido and the 25th
from Osaka area, seemed to be
in the peninsula. TLe negroes
of Gifu were in action for the
first time during the week.
Lull on the Kum
The lull on the Kum bridge-
heads, from which some ob-
servers hoped so much, was
merely a pause by the North
Koreans for consolidation and
resupply and to meet the time-
table of outflanking forces. The
swiftness with which both these
operations were completed was
further testimony to the
enthusiasm and rough efficiency
of the enemy, whose advance
has not been hampered by any
regard for 'the laws of war.
His infiltration has been on
the Japanese model in Malaya,
carried out in any uniforms or
in local peasant costume. He
seemingly has had a strong fifth-
column organised in the area
which he has invaded, which
would account for a great deal
of his apparent speed, especially
if he had previously succeeded
in laying down caches of arms.
Apart from this there need be
little doubt but that the South
Korean is like most other
Asiatics. As with the looties of
India in the wars of the late
eighteenth century, he no doubt
will be ready to fight for the
party who happens to be on the
spot, especially if the party
threatens to stick a bayonet into
his anatomy if he doesn’t. This re-
cruiting expedient is, of course,
open to the North Koreans, but
not to the Americans.
The First Division Lands
During the lull after the in-
vaders had outflanked or begun
to outflank Taejon, the Ameri-
cans landed elements or all of
the Ist Division at Pohang on
July 18. This was described as
a “surprise” landing, and it was
recorded that the landing-parties
pushed their way into the
country for seven miles without
encountering any opposition—
which was not astonishing.
It was only two or three
days later that the South
Koreans withdrew from
Yongdok, 25 miles further north
along the coast. An Allied naval
force blew it to bits and then
occupied it but were not strong
enough to resist an attack by
North Koreans in regimental
strength who went into posses-
sion near the weekend and
soon were trying to fight their
way southward to get at the new
U.S. beachhead at Pohang.
Approaching the Defence
Line
Pohang is just north of the
36th parallel on the eastern
flank of the ranges above Taegu
(Taikyu) on the way from
Taejon to Fusan. Taegu lies just
south of a range spur which
runs up to nearly 4000 ft., to the
east of a river valley which is
flanked on the west side by a
long difficult range. This range
divides the Kum River valleys
from the eastern river systems.
The North Koreans came
down swiftly on the west coast
beyond the flank of Taejon, their
advance there apparently being
virtually unresisted by the Ameri-
cans. They were able to take
Nonsan, Kumsan (Gunzan) and
Chongdu (Zentsu), which is only
about 90 miles from the south-
west tip of the peninsula and on
the main road and rail, seemingly
without any real fighting.
This suggests that what the
Americans are trying to do is
to wall off the eastern corner of
Korea by using the ranges as a
part of their defence bastion
while they accumulate forces
for an offensive and landings be-
hind the enemy lines. The west
side of the peninsula they are
not defending seriously for the
moment.
Taejon Falls
The taking of Taejon seems
to have been a sudden affair.
After waiting for the attack for
half a week, the rearguard in
the town suddenly found tanks
in the suburbs, thought they
were their own and then pro-
ceeded to knock them over like
ninepins, in numbers according
to the taste of the reporter.
The picture, however, when
stripped of its imaginative detail,
suggests that the Americans had
long since given the town up
for lost, had left behind merely
a rearguard to give the incom-
ing enemy a welcoming kick and
then left the burning city,
ignited through an overenthusi-
astic bombardment by the
approaching invaders, to its fate.
The road along the flat river
valley country south-west of
Taejon on the road to Pusan via
Taegu was by this time under
Communist fire, which the
rearguard had to brave after
they had made the enemy’s entry
into the town as uncomfortable
as possible, and denied him
through destruction whatever
facilities it was possible to rob
him of. He came on in the
guise so dear to descriptive
observers—“tightly - packed
columns of infantry” marching
behind tanks, North Korean
masses “pouring machine-gun
and rifle-fire” into retreating
American units along the main
road.
After the Taejon operation
Major-General Dean, G.O.C. 24th
Division, was reported missing,
General MacArthur’s Com-
munique
It was at this stage that
General MacArthur issued a
communique on July 21 which
declared that the North Koreans
had lost their chance. He said
that the enemy’s plan and great
opportunity depended on the
speed with which he could over-
run South Korea, once he had
broached the Han River line at
Seoul, and with overwhelming
numbers and superior weapons
shattered South Korean resist-
ance.
The general wrote:
This chance he has now lost
through the extraordinary speed with
which the Eighth Army has been
deployed from Japan to stem his
rush. When he crashed the Han
line the way seemed entirely open,
and victory was within his grasp.
The desperate decision to throw in,
piecemeal, American elements as they
arrived by every available means of
transport was the only hope to save
the situation.
He continued that successive
holding actions, supported by
naval and air elements, had
forced the enemy into continued
deployments, costly frontal
attacks and confused logistics
and so slowed his advance and
blunted his drive that “we have
bought the precious time neces-
sary to build a secure base.”
The picture is not quite as
rosy as it seems on the face of
this, especially since MacArthur
said that future events “could
not be predicted” and that
“strategy would involve further
planned withdrawals as well as
local advances.”
In any case, the North Korean
advance was only beginning to
be slowed. It was con-
tinuing at the weekend as
fast as was physically pos-
sible, even assuming that the
resistance was negligible, as
the minor nature of the reported
U.S. casualties, combined with
the uninterruptedness of the
southward drive, suggests. By
road from the North Korean
border to Taejon is about 140
miles, a distance which has been
covered at an average of six
miles a day, including pauses for
consolidation—this over a road
continually under aircraft attack
on which bridges generally have
been supposedly destroyed.
Evidence of Change
The first real evidence of
change came on July 23 when,
after a calendar month of ardu-
ous retreat, the remaining ele-
ments of the 24th Division were
relieved 10 miles below Taejon
by detachments from the First
Cavalry Division, which had
made its way across the penin-
sula from their landing place at
Pohang, above which other units
from the same division were
still engaged with the forces of
regimental strength which had
recaptured Yongdok. With the
central front strengthened by
units from the negro division
who are supporting the South
Koreans there and who took
Yechon, an important rail-
way junction, 60 miles north-
east of Taejon, it may be said
that, the opposing forces, on
July 24, were really beginning to
come to grips on all approach
routes for the first time, but it
will be a long time before any-
thing decisive can happen. For
the time being it will be satis-
factory if a base of operations
can be salved. It will take weeks
before there is sufficient material
in Korea for the Americans
even to think of an offensive
which cannot be allowed to fail
but which must carry them clear
to the North Korean border at
least without check.
The N. Koreans
The real test is now approach-
ing, since the Americans cannot
give much more ground and
General Walker should, this
week, begin reveal his mettle.
The Koreans are no more super-
men than the Russians of World
War 11. They seem to be mostly
freshly-trained young troops with
fairly plentiful ammunition,
driven by grim, battlehardened
officers and non-commissioned
officers with Chinese and Man-
churian war experience. Despite
the reports of abundant heavy
guns and giant tanks, more and
more evidence accumulates ft
Ascount these yams-logisticT
difficulties in themselves are suffi
cient to lead to their being taken
with a gram of salt,
one or two encounters
notably in an action by South
Koreans on July 8, sufficien
equipment has been captured tc
ensure knowledge of its genera
nature. Almost all of it was of
Russian manufacture.
It included a couple of scout
cars, which had not run 50(
miles, the armor of both pene-
trated by ordinary rifle-bullets
Heavy and light machineguns
heavy mortars and long-barrelled
50mm. anti-tank rifles, built to
be carried by two men, and a
couple of mountain howitzers
were taken, one destroyed by a
shell bursting in the breech. Of
700 rifles taken, half were Japan-
ese and half Russian. All the
Russian weapons proved to be
strong and serviceable, though
lacking in finish. Medium tanks
were reported as captured, but
no report on them has been
made. The 60-tonners appeared
this week to have flown home.
Against this enemy the Ameri-
cans have largely young inex-
perienced troops who are being
increasingly leavened with ex-
perienced men and officers.
They now virtually own the
air over Korea, having not
only 8295, but long-distance
Neptunes of the type which flew
three years ago from Perth
(W.A.) to the United States non-
stop, and an increasing cover
and escort of fighters.
Short of intervention by
China and the U.S.S.R. on a
large scale, their superiority
should begin to show itself de-
cisively within a week or two.
President Truman’s Message
President Truman has asked
Congress for $10,000,000,000 for
the Korean War. His immedi-
ate plans, involving the grant
to him of unlimited powers
of conscription, have received
the unanimous support of
Congress. They seem likely to
lead to the immediate mobilisa-
tion of about 200,000 men, pro-
viding, with those already in the
Orient, for possibly the five or
six divisions which should be
necessary to handle the situation.
Apart from this, steps are to be
taken to make other frontiers
secure against Red infiltration,
measures including the sending
of fighting aircraft of various
types to Indo-China for the use
of the French and Viet-nam
forces.
There will be partial home-
front mobilisation and war-time
conditions will apply in setting


FORDS 25 YEARS
IN AUSTRALIA
a firm foundation for future progress
HE MONTH OF JUDY, 1950, marks the
Silver Anniversary of Ford in Australia.
0
Through this quarter century Ford has kept in the
forefront of Australia's industrial development and,
by its contributions in the field of transportation, has
helped materially to make such development possible.
Now, with continued faith in the Commonwealth s
progress, Ford of Australia embarks on an even
greater future.
It takes this opportunity of recording its sincere
appreciation of the users of Ford products, of the
Ford Dealer organisation, of the Ford employees,
of the Australian sources of supply and of all who
made this 25 years of progress possible.
1950
1925
mmm
I
abrd
o
fORD MOTOR COMPANY" OF AUSTRALIA PTV. LTD.
Geelong . Ballarat . Sydney « Brisbane . Adelaide . Perth
FPR36-9B
up priorities for defence in cer-
tain materials. The President
declared that the attack on Korea
had made it plain beyond all
doubt that the international
Communist movement was pre-
pared to use armed invasion to
conquer independent nations,
and that “we must therefore
recognise that more armed
aggression in the world rqight
strain the fabric of peace to
breaking-point.”
It was clear, he said, that the
free nations must step up their
common security programmes.
America’s allies would have to
turn more of their economic re-
sources to defence.
The United States will soon be
spending up to the Russian rate
in this year’s Budget. For all
practical purposes they and we
are at war with international
Communism, if only in the
strategic phase.
Trygve Lie's White
Hopes.
“Ek Dum”: Some of the re-
sponses to Mr. Trygve Lie’s
clarion-call to the members of
U.N.O. for military assistance in
Korea have been cynically amus-
ing, though in most cases the
ardent champions of liberty have
been silent.
The Prime Minister of Pakis-
tan, Liaquat Ali Khan, said that
he was pleased that the Security
Council, “which had been turn-
ing into a debating society,” had
taken a firm decision on Korea
and that this action “revitalised
the United Nations” . . . which
for some time past have sup-
posedly been earning the undying
gratitude of Pakistan by arbitrat-
ing a settlement between that
country and India on issues
which were reported to haye
brought war very close.
Thakin Nu and his Govern-
ment have decided to support the
U.N. actions on Korea, declar-
ing that “if member-States fail
to rise to the present call of
U.N., the future of small nations
like Burma is unenviable.” And
a few hours afterwards the
Burmese, as well as others, had
to complain that the Chinese
Nationalists, bulwark of U.N.O.’s
greatness and a veto-holder,
were attacking their territory in
the Shan States,
It does not seem that Burma
will be quite as much use as
Uncle Sam in the Korean busi-
riess.
Indeed, of all the ardent sup-
porters of U.N.O. in Asia—
Afghanistan, Burma, Egypt,
India, Iraq, Israel, Lebanon,
Pakistan, Philippines, Saudi
Arabia, Siam, Yemen —not one
seems prepared to offer any prac-
tical help. Except little Siam,
which promises to rise to the
occasion. The Philippines, whose
Foreign Minister is president of
U.N.0., says it can’t send troops,
but will graciously allow volun-
teers to join the U.S. forces.
It is also worth while to
record the attitude of Dr. Evatt,
Dr. Romulo’s predecessor in
office in, U.N.O. He is deputy-
leader of the Australian Labor
party, which partly consists of
Communist-led unions, the head
of one of which has just been
seconded to the W.F.T.U. in
Peking. The Labor party has
always opposed effective defence
measures to provide a force
ready in case of war emergency.
It refused, even when we were
threatened with invasion early in
the last war, to send compulsory
trainees even beyond the three-
mile limit to ward off the enemy
from these shores. Later it re-
fused to send them beyond the
equator to rescue our men in
Borneo or to help in the inva-
sion of Japan. But now that
Dr. Evatt’s hobby, the United
Nations, is concerned he thinks
it would be “disastrous if the
United States were supported by
only vague expressions.”
It seems that Dr. Evatt is
about to witness disaster as the
whole tinsel and expensive struc-
ture of his dreams falls about his
ears, as the ardent allies which
he acquired, ever ready to join
him in baiting the United King-
dom or dividing the British
Dominions in order that he
might exhibit his authority,
fade away at the call to action.
Where is Cuba, El Salvador and
Haiti? Where are the armies of
the great nations of Costa Rica
and Liberia, whose vote in
U.N.O. is as good as our own?


OONC KONG
in less than 2 days by
a £ a
Now yoti can fly—for business or
pleasure— to the heart of the Orient-
colourful, fascinating Hong Kong
—in less than 48 hours
from Sydney via Darwin,
Labuan (North Borneo).
Regular services by Q.E.A.
Skymasters—with appetising hot
meals served in flight and
first class steward service.
Enquire about special
air-sea interchange tours.
Consult your local
travel agent.
f
c
n
St
&
si«
B
ft
r
\
\
a
QANT A 5 EMPIRE AIRWAYS
AUSTRALIA'S INTERNATIONAL AIRLINE p C
in association with British Overseas Airways Corporation
*>&s
jrmfffrrf#
OJT-
CT
CKa
MP
DS
'/it
0
m
TRADE MARK
FACTORIES: FELTHAM, ENG.;
TOLEDO, U.S.A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
Rupture
Sufferers—try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
Call or send stamp for
FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and U days ’ free trial
offer. No obligation .
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
FREE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
VIEWS ON KOREA.
Altogether, with very few ex-
ceptions, British Press comment
on the challenge in Korea can
hardly be called better than
cautious.
The shooting Ijad barely startec
before London “Daily Mail’
wept aloud: “Only a miracle
can save Southern Korea now
The indications are that the fight-
ing is virtually over, and that
one more unfortunate country
has fallen victim to Russian-
Communist aggression.”
A day later, America having
promptly acted, the “Mail” com-
mented : “What happens there is
of tremendous concern to us
[British], though we have no
direct part in it.” This view of
the challenge itself as purely
America’s business was remark-
ably widespread in early British
Press comment. So, also, was
the “Excuse us” attitude, or what
the Yanks would call the “alibi,”
in this further comment from
the “Daily Mail”: “We [British]
have our hands full in Malaya,
as the French have theirs full
in. Indo-China.” Great Britain
has its hands full in Malaya! It
is almost incredible.
The view most general seems
to have been that the Korean
issue was purely America’s affair.
Thus, rather typically, the “Daily
Express”; “The audacious Com-
munist challenge to American
authority directly in Korea and,
by implication, all over the Far
East....” ITie “Scotsman,”
similarly: “It is probable
that North Korea with Russian
support will absorb the South,
because action by the Security
Council will be paralysed and aid
from the United States will
come too late ”
“Yorkshire Post” hunted the
woods for an olive branch:
“The final outcome cannot be
foretold. It is learnt that the
American Administration have
asked the Russian Government
to use their influence in favor of
a withdrawal of the invading
forces. We hope that this sug-
gestion will be followed, as it
still can be without loss of
prestige.”
Perhaps surprisingly, some
early French comment, though
also inclined to wish it all on to
the U.S., had much more heart
in it. Thus, “Le Figaro”;
“There is only one method
that may be successful in remov-
ing the prospect of universal
war —and that is the method
chosen by the United States
Government. The Western
world is beginning to under-
stand that the only road to peace
is the road of courage.”
A point made by Edinburgh
“Scotsman” might be particu-
larly significant in suggesting
that a Churchill on top would
have made all the difference to
the voice of Britain. The “Scots-
man” quoted Mr. Truman: “The
return to the rule of force in
international affairs would have
far-reaching effects. The United
States will continue to uphold
the rule of law.” With that it
contrasted Mr. Attlee’s acknow-
ledgment that aggression had
taken place and must be checked,
and his comment: “We can only
hope that all concerned will
recognise this simple fact. If
they do, there is hope for the
future.” “This,” understated the
“Scotsman,” “is not quite such
an energetic and decisive state-
ment as Mr. Truman’s.”
To come rather closer home,
the Singapore “Straits Times”
showed a contrasting breath of
vigor, at least: “We pray history
will record that President Tru-
man' this day [when he an-
nounced American action against
COAI-STEa POfli
—London “Dally Mail."
FEELING THE WAY.
the aggression] won peace for a
world threatened by madmen.
To have stood aside would have
surrendered the last hope of
peace within our time.” But,
naturally enough no doubt, the
missing note of vigor and cour-
age was present most clearly in
U.S. Press comments. One or
two examples:
N. Y. “Herald Tribune”:
“The President has acted —and
spoken With a magnificent
courage and terse decision....
The risk of war in the action
taken by the American Govern-
ment may perhaps be compared
to the risk that the British and
French would have run had they
stood together in 1936 in oppo-
sition to Adolf Hitler’s occupa-
tion of the Rhineland. We be-
lieve the greater risk was in-
curred in letting Hitler success-
fully carry off his occupation of
the Rhineland.”
“New York Times”: “The
open invasion of South Korea
by the Soviet puppet regime of
the North sheds a new light on
the whole international scene. It
not only pierces the fog of the
fraudulent Soviet ‘peace offen-
sive’ but also shatters wishful
thinking that the Soviets will not
resort to force to achieve their
purposes. Like Hitler, they may
not want a ‘big’ war —now or
ever. But war in Korea is proof
that in the pursuit of their
objectives at least they do not
shrink from a ‘little war,’ both
to test the strength of the oppos-
ing forces of peace and, if pos-
sible, to pick off their prospective
victims in the Hitler manner—
one by one, and at the risk of
any graver consequences that
may ensue
“Both the United Nations and
the United States have decided to
face up to the Russo-Communist
challenge. Neither JCprea nor
any other Pacific area that is
still free is going to be sacrificed
to a Far Eastern Munich, We
have learned the lesson that
appeasement does not serve
peace; that in the face of naked
aggression the forces of peace
must make a stand sooner or
later, and that the sooner they
do so the better will be their
position. The present action
comes late, but there is hope that
it still comes soon enough to
restore the morale of the Korean
armies and to avert a band-
wagon psychosis among other
Asiatic nations that might have
begun to despair of Western
aid.”
Outstanding exceptions from
the generally timid British Press
comments have been those of
the “Manchester Guardian” and,
especially, the “Economist.”
Both have seen the issue’s wide-
range implications, the “Man-
chester Guardian” commenting:
“The present decisions cannot
be judged fairly without trying
to foresee what would have
happened if the aggression in
South Korea had been left to
run its course. The Security
Council would have been virtu-
ally at an end for any confidence
to be placed in it. Every Gov-
ernment in Asia, and all the
political classes of Asia, would
have reconsidered their attitude
to the United States and Britain.
A Communist Japan would no
longer have been simply an
academic possibility. The odds
on the .survival of Viet-Nam,
Burma and Thailand would have
slumped heavily. So would the
odds on Malaya....
“The consequences would not
have stopped in Asia. There
would have been recrimination
in the United States, and the
sentiment for neutrality in
Europe would have had a hot-
house development. If North
Korea attacks the South, may
this not be a ‘try-out’ for East
Germany to attack West Ger-
many? These developments—
some of them of course no
more than possibilities—might
have come, not in a matter of
years, but of months. The
American action means that,
whatever happens, we shall not
experience this kind of disaster.”
The “Economist” commented
on the over-evident signs of
timidity: “Voices were not want-
ing in London to suggest that
Britain need give no more than
moral support.” Moreover, it
had to turn to America to hear
a one-time characteristically
British voice. “I have ordered
United States' sea and air
forces,” said Mr. Truman, “to
give the Korean Government
troops cover and support.”
“That,” commented the “Econo-
mist,” “is the voice of Palmer-
ston, speaking for the United
Nations.” It added:
“The leaders of the free world
have shown that they have the
will to resist aggression, that they
are ready to run risks now to
stop militant Communism from
picking off its victims one by
one.
“It has been a heartening
spectacle. After a pause for
thought, American opinion
rallied behind the President and
his reply to the Security Council
appeal for action. A House of
Commons that had been deep in
a party debate only a few hours*
earlier closed its ranks behind
Mr, Attlee when he announced,
without qualification, British
support for the American deci-
sion. In Europe, opinion—save
among the Communists —has
proved remarkably steady, obvi-
ously relieved that a great moral
and political decision should
have been taken so quickly. For
thirty-six hours one could
wonder whether the free nations
would rise to the occasion.
Would it be said that neither
the United States nor any other
Western Government was bound
by treaty to defend the Korean
Republic? Would it be argued
that this was not the issue on
which the Communist bluff
should be called? Would the
voice of neutrality be heard from
Western Europe, claiming that
what happens in the Pacific is
a matter for the Americans and
the Russians alone?
“The possibility that these
things might happen must have
crossed Mr. Acheson’s mind. It
was doubtless the Communists’
calculation and hope that they
would. They must have reckoned
that a, Blitzkrieg would overrun
South Korea before the West
could screw up its courage to
the sticking-point. It is very
greatly to the credit of President
Truman —and, it appears, of
General Mac Arthur —that they
were proved wrong. For the
reasons that might have been
found for doing nothing in Korea
would have cast their shadows
into the future, would have be-
come arguments for doing no-
thing in Persia, Yugoslavia, Indo-
China and Hong Kong, That,
surely, is the lesson of the early
’thirties; and to have spent the
early ’fifties relearning it would
have been disastrous. As it is,
whatever happens in Korea, the
warning has gone out —to the
East German Bereitschaften, to
the Cominform conspiring
against Tito, to the would-be
‘liberators’ of South-East Asia.”
Schuman Competition.
As interpreted by David
Lawrence in N. Y. “Herald
Tribune,” the Schuman coal-
and-steel merger could face
Britain with very serious com-
petition ;
“The British steel industry is
about to be ‘nationalised’ and,
under complete Government
control, cannot long survive
against the competition of the


A GRAND CAREER FOR YOUR SON
Young men are invited to apply
for admission to the
ROYAL MILITARY COLLEGE
DUNTROON
oUt£i
gOYAt
ITA*
<A grand tradition behind you... a grand career before you 9
Through the Royal Military College, Duntroon, have passed, as
young Lieutenants, hundreds of leaders of men. Their names stand
out in the development of Australia’s military history. The young
man of initiative to-day, with latent powers of leadership which
training and study will bring out, can also graduate from the
College, as a Lieutenant in the Australian Regular Army, and
indeed rise to eminence in a great Service.
Applications are invited
for admission to the College
in February, 1951
There are no fees to pay whatsoever, clothing, food accommodation
and medical and dental attention all being provided. Every young
man in the Commonwealth, over 16 and under 20 years of age, on
the 10th February, 1951, has an equal chance of being among
those selected, provided he possesses inherent qualities of leadership
is medically and dentally fit, and holds certain educational
qualifications. He must be unmarried.
A great life under excellent conditions
Once accepted as a Cadet, the candidate is launched on a career of
exceptional promise. Under conditions unexcelled anywhere
(including a room to himself), excellent sporting and recreationa
goes through all the phases of a through military
academic and physical education ... is taught to be ale ,
resourceful, and to bear himself so as always to command respect.
At the same time he is adequately remunerated, receiving from
7/- a day during the first year, to 11/- a day m the last ye .
Thanks to his extensive training in the classroom, parade ground
and the playing field, the keen young cadet emerges, on graduation,
as a man in every fine sense of the word His parents, and indeed
the whole of Australia, may well be proud ot him.
For further information, contact the address in your State
Headquarters, Southern Command, Albert
Park Barracks, MELBOURNE. Phone
MXY 130.
Headquarters, Central Command, Keswick
Barracks, ADELAIDE. Phone LF 1681.
Headquarters, Western Command, Swan
Barracks. PERTH. Phone BA 3143.
Headquarters, Eastern Command, Victoria
Barracks. PADDINGTON. Phone FA 0455.
Headquarters, Tasmania Command, Angle-
sea Barracks, HOBART. Phone 7011.
Headquarters, Northern Command, Vic-
toria Barracks, BRISBANE. Phone F 33.
NAME
ADDRESS
APPLICATIONS CLOSE 31st AUGUST, 1950
low-cost Franco-German pro-
ducers.
“The efficiency of the Con-
tinental producers is higher,
labor costs are less and raw
materials are cheaper than in
Great Britain.
“Also, the Germans work 56
hours a week, the Belgians 52
hours and th© French 40 hours,
while the British work 30 hours
—all these figures being in what
is known as ‘straight time’ be-
fore any overtime rates apply.
“Since direct labor is 35 to 40
per cent, of the ultimate produc-
tion cost, the British can’t swal-
low the Franco-German cartel
plan without serious study and
some concessions to meet their
situation.”
Alarm in Germany.
The leading Western Powers
having made it clear that direct
or indirect Soviet aggression in
Germany (and elsewhere in
Europe) would mean instant
war, the position of the West
Germans, with occupation forces
still there, has never been that
of the South Koreans.
Nonetheless, the resemblance
has been sufficiently close for
the Korean invasion to spread
alarm in Western Germany and
set up renewed pleas there for a
strengthening of defences, mean-
ing by Germans. Representa-
tive comments:
“Die Zeit” (Hamburg): “This
paper has been anxious to find
out and prove for two years that
the modern form of war pre-
ferred by the Kremlin is civil
war. The people of Germany,
who have been watching the re-
building of the future Communist
German civil-war army and who
have had to accept not even be-
ing permitted by the Western
Allies to set up a police force,
can understand the bitterness
Ihich people in Seoul feel about
e American policy.”
“Muenchner M e r k u r”
Munich): “We have not in-
;nted the situation in the Far
ast to use it as a platform for
•itical scepticism of Allied
olicies. But we are concerned
ith the fate of our country and
e are sure that the people who
lake the decisions will well
nderstand our views as a sort
f anguished appeal for careful
nd reasonable action. We can-
ot be blamed if we prefer a
uarantee of security to a little
:ss Allied tutoring.”
The same: “Despite all
ttempts to reassure us, we feel
tie similarity of our fate with
bat of that country [Korea],
ffiis is why it would be the right
ime for the responsible High
Commissioners to go beyond the
tatements of their Governments
,nd make another effort to re-
new the question of German
iccurity and protection against
i Red invasion against the back-
pound of developments in the
Par East. A clear statement of
\llied intentions to this effect
vould not merely be a warning,
but would also strengthen the
security feeling of Western
Europe. If it is firmly announced
that really concrete actions will
be taken for our protection in
:ase our country is attacked,
then we will be able to make
practical defence preparations.
We have opted for the West and
we feel that we are entitled to
demand that this West save us
from a Korean fate by an early
guarantee of support.”
“Tagesspiegel” (Berlin):
“While we see in Korea the hot
war of Communism for the con-
quest of the world, we witness
in West Germany the cold war
as a Communist ‘fight for peace.’
As long as the Federal [West
German] Government does not
have sufficient security guaran-
tees from the Allies, it will not
be possible to stop Communist
agitation activities with the aid
of the [West] German police,
which exists only on a State
basis. The first step for
strengthening the Federal re-
public must be the establishment
of a Federal police. Even more
important would be the dispatch
of a sufficient number of Ameri-
can fighting divisions to Ger-
many. The American Secretary
of Defence knows as well as the
State Department how many
troops the Red Army has
stationed west of the Oder-
Neisse line, and how many Ger-
mans serve in the [East German]
people’s police and in the still
unofficial peoples’ army
equipped with Soviet war
material and trained by officers
of the Red Army. There can
be no doubt that Washington has
also exact figures as to the arma-
ment of these three armies. The
Western Allied troops must be
brought to a strength equal to
that of all divisions fighting for
Russia.”
By way of reply to these and,
apparently, official representa-
tions on similar lines, U.S.
High Commissioner McCloy
stated that in his view the
Federal Republic did not require
a formal guarantee of its security,
as it had been made plain that
an attack on Western Germany
would automatically mean an
attack on the Western Powers.
On the other hand, the Chan-
cellor’s wish for the creation of
a Federal police force would be
seriously considered, and the
Western Powers would make an
early decision on it. At the same
time, “a police force on military
lines would in no case be
approved.” The Allied troops
would “remain in Germany until
peace, and freedom, were
assured.”
Vital Malaya.
A London “Daily Telegraph”
correspondent having reported
that “one ®f the major conse-
quences” of the granting of in-
dependence to India and there-
abouts “has been a westward
shift in the centre of gravity of
the [British] Commonwealth, a
shift from Asia to Africa,” Lord
Milverton commented:
“I suggest these words do less
than justice to the vital import-
ance of Malaya—-economically as
the source and centre of rubber,
tin and other raw materials upon
which we depend, and strategi-
cally as the guardian of the gate-
way to the Pacific, the pivot
point of our influence in the Far
East and our communications
with Australia, New Zealand
and Fiji.”
On that account, Lord Mil-
verton describes the apparent
concentration of British Colonial
Office interest in recent years on
Africa as “a potentially danger-
ous heresy.”
Dragnet Digest.
Troops, of a Sort.— Cheerful item
m N. Y. “Herald Tribune”: “The
nobilisation of a mass army in
France (the same applies to Italy)
would mean that at least one in four
of the recruits was an avowed Com-
munist.”
Sfc ❖ * *
Truman Signs— At least one incen-
tive (perhaps a little remote) tor
Americans to give their offspring
short monickers is suggested m a U.b.
official item: “The President has to
sign his name to more than 15t),t)UU
papers a year, an average of 600 a
day. Even such matters as Federal
fishing regulations and regulations
governing boxing exhibitions in the
Panama Canal Zone receive his per-
sonal attention.”
# * * *
West Weakness and Strength.—
Assessed in the course of a “World
Review” article by James Burnham:
“A candid survey will, I think, show
that our side —that is, the democratic
side, the side led by the United
States and including all other nations,
peoples and persons who are sure to
stand with the United States —is at
present superior to the Communist
side in all relevant major factors
except two. These two are: strategic
position and political leadership. In
everything else that bears on the
decision, not only in economic plant
and technology, hut in science, inven-
tion culture, adaptability, health,
usable (not merely theoretical) re-
serves, both of material resources and
of human energies, we are at present
better, and in most instances im-
mensely better.”
* * ♦ *
Only J. Bull in Step—Always
notably friendly to Britain, “New
York Times” turned severely on the
British Labor-party manifesto reject-
ing the Schuman coal-and-stecl-con-
trol plan: “It is a long time since
anything so negative and destructive
fas the Socialist manifesto] has come
out of Europe. It may be that we
are naive to be surprised at British
Socialists being socialistic, but
during five years of power no
evidence was given that the party
officially favored such extreme policies
as these. The pamphlet is a declara-
tion that there can be no European
unity until or unless the Continent
goes Socialist and introduces public
ownership and nationally planned
economics. Since nearly all the
Marshall-Plan countries are non-
Socialist, this places Britain in the
position of the private who insisted
that the regiment get in step with
him. Here is a new form of insular-
ism. There is a tone of complacency
and self-righteousness running through
the pamphlet that must make out-
siders squirm.”
♦ * * *
Widening U.S. Policy.— While being
a far step beyond former isolation-
ism, U.S. leaders (states a “New
York Times” staff writer) had until
lately thought and acted in the cold
war mainly in terms of limited areas
for which protection had to be
improvised—such as Greece when
British troops moved out, Turkey,
Iran and, more recently, South-East
Asia. “This protection was viewed
as limited in time as well as in space.
American leaders appear now to take
—or to feel able to announce—
views more in accordance with the
magnitude that some American action
must replace the Marshall Plan when
it ends, successful as that plan was
within its limits. They seem ready
to act on a larger scale in terms both
of time and of geography.”
* * * *
Soviet Bait for Germany— “lt is
doubtful,” comments London f 1 ™ 6
and Tide,” “if there is a single
prominent German who has written
off the loss of the lands beyond the
Oder. We know that the West would
never go to war to regain these terri-
tories for Germany. But can we
believe that Russia, to win sup-
port of Western Germany, would not
be prepared to offer them in return
for a military alliance? After all, the
men who came to terms with Rib*
bentrop are still very much in the
saddle in Moscow. Would Stalin and
Molotov shed any more tears over
yet another partition of Poland than
they did in 1939?”
* ♦ * ♦
Whiter Africa. —Commenting that
a growing body of opinion in Cen-
tral Africa favors white immigration
on a large scale, “Manchester Guar-
dian” reports as a beginning an
experiment of potentially explosive
force,” the Rhodesia Tobacco Asso
dation’s decision to work half a
dozen of its farms with white labor
only. Elsewhere it might not be
thought very remarkable, but it s a
significant departure there, the rule
hitherto being that Europeans should
not be employed as ordinary manual
laborers, but only as supervisors and
so forth.
* * * *
Franco’s Hold.— “ Facts which any-
one in Spain will admit,” as listed
by a London “Daily Mail start
correspondent reporting from Madrid :
“Franco is as firmly in power as he
has ever been. Our [Britain s] policy
of semi-boycott towards him has
strengthened him rather than weak-
ened him. There is no sign of any
effective organised opposition to him.
There is no conceivable hope of this
regime changing itself into a Parha-
mentary democracy or of it being
overthrown from within Spain. There
is, however, “one uncontrollable
factor working against Franco the
economic crisis. Spain is running
slowly and inexorably down Ana
it is beyond her own strength to pull
herself together again.”


Even faces
as rough as this
m
m
AtM
4
f
reel almost aS |
smooth as hers
►
after a cool,
cool Ingram
shave...
rm
y
S hiss <
v JL
Man . . , Listen what Ingram's does to make shaving a
breeze! Bursts into billows of whisker-wilting lather fasti
Helps condition your skin for shaving. Cools and soothes
razor burns and stings. And then . . . that refreshing
Ingram's coolness lingers! Treat yourself to a fresh-
feeling face tomorrow. Get Ingram's Shaving Cream
today. It comes in neat jars from your nearest chemist.
COMBINES ITS OWN FACE LOTION
A product of Bristol Myers
nqra.
SHAVING
1619
m
Ingram’s
Shaving
Cream
For Cool Shaves and
Comfortable Faces
Iwii
'mmmm
If the road had springs you couldn’t get a
smoother, softer ride than you get on Super-
Cushions.
Super-Cushions, exclusive to Goodyear, are the
new kind of tyres that give a new kind of ride . . .
bigger softer tyres that soak up jolts, resist bruises
and cuts* Super-Cushions will fit your present
wheels, so, see your Goodyear Dealer now.
EVERYTHING A TYRE CAN DO
DOES SETTER!
Here's how Super-Cushions out-
perform conventional tyres:
Softer, Smoother, Safer Ride . . .
Quicker Stops . . . Greater Traction
Easier Steering ... Less Driving Fatigue
Better Looking . . . Fewer Rattles and
Car Repairs ... More Car Economy
all this and GREATER
MILEAGE. TOO!
MORE PEOPLE,
THE WORLD OVER,
RIDE ON GOODYEAR TYRES
THAN ON ANY OTHER MAKE.
SL4-I0
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“The modern girl isn’t interested
in a man unless he has a small car.”
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
Even then she’s likely to drive
him crazy.
4* 4* 4*
“An industrial tribunal is trying
to decide whether an employee is
entitled to have a portrait of his boss
tattooed on his lower back.”
Or whether his application
should be scrubbed.
4* 4* 4*
' “Sports writers are continually tell-
ing us that Australian boxers are
lacking in ringcraft.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
Yet a lot of them seem to
know the ropes.
The Sole Reason.
“Some women prefer nylons to
husbands.”
—English Labor M.P. N. Dodds.
Just what have nylon stockings
got
That womenfolk insist on wear-
ing *
These fancy hose instead of
caring
Enough for men to share the lot
Of faithful husbands who would
not
In years to come refrain from
sharing
The troubles all must face while
faring
Through life unto we know not
what ?
Perhaps it’s not the flattery
Of lovely sheen or cosy feel
That causes nylons thus to please
So much as just the certainty
That, unlike men, with utmost
ease
They daily can be brought to
heel.
D. H. E.
Nautical.
“Romance blossomed over plates
of bacon-and-eggs in the dming-
saloon of a liner on her latest trip
to Australia from England.”
—Sydney “Daily Mirror.”
I was just partaking of my
usual hangover breakfast of dry
toast and aspirin in the luxurious
dining-saloon of S.S. Soaker on
my way to Zagreb when, throw-
ing my head back to dislodge a
tablet that had stuck in my
left tonsil, I spied her through
the mist; and blow me down if
romance doesn’t start to blossom
right over my plate!
The blossoms were a sort of
pale-green with puce leaves,
formed into a true-lover’s knot,
cunningly entwined with pink
pythons playing tennis with a
Turk’s head, whilst around all
was a delicate violet mist,
through which her deep violet
eyes and carmine lips gleamed
provocatively as she daintily
speared a kidney and poised it
tantalisingly before masticating it
into ribbons with her sharp little
pearly teeth.
“Et apres le petit-dejeuner,
mon ami ?” she murmured
musically. Heavens! French!
And with a King’s Cross accent!
Would mysteries never cease?
Brusquely brushing the pythons
to the floor with the score at
fifteen-love, I grabbed her hand
and led her to the boat-deck,
where shiver me timbers if she
doesn’t turn into a mermaid, lifts
her seaweedies nimbly, and,
after tipping out a couple of
red octopi and half-a-dozen
green sea-snakes, hauls me into
a lifeboat and produces a bottle
of rum!
I’m just doing fine pressing
my suit when, blast me poop,
if the captain doesn’t come
along, hauls me out, orders me
off the grog and busts up the
whole blossoming romance!
JONAS DILL.
“The tears stopped, and Lynette
sat slowly down upon the bed. A
salor! Not just any salior, but that
sailor.”-—“ New Idea.”
Not too sure of him, appar-
ently.
+ 4* 4*
“An examination of 33,677 patients
in selected British hospitals showed
that 18 per cent, were infested with
head-lice or nits.”
A moving picture!
4* 4* 4*
“Never, in any circumstances, wear
anything that makes you feel like a
wet rag.”
—Advice in woman’s paper.
Or you’ll be rung out.
"It's two o'clock feed-time , dear!"
“At this time of the year bees are
on holidays, and they may expect a
breakfast in bed of sugar-syrup.”
—Melbourne “Argus:”
A golden chance has come to
me ;
With bees on yearly fling.
I’ll sweetly offer B. and B.
At twice the normal sting.
A. MGN.
“Before I knew her she sneaked
out one night and was amazed to
find her mother cutting a rug with a
well-known pug at the local dance-
hall.” — Sydney “D.T.”
No doubt Dad made them toe
the carpet.
More Higher Education.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT!
Do you wish to join that ex-
clusive privileged band of wage-
plugs, the wharflaborers? Are
you desirous of acquiring that
permanently tired feeling which
is the essential prerequisite to
leaning against a bale with a
bill-hook in your belt discussing
form at around 10 bob an hour?
Could you extemporaneously
think up an excuse for walking
off a half-loaded ship and not be
suspended? Would you be cap-
able of recognising in, say, a
cargo of dolls’-eyes or bath-
sponges a possible source of
claim for danger-money? If
you do, are, couldn’t or wouldn’t,
you would be wise to join the
special educational classes for
prospective wharfies at the
Eureka Industrial College,
Students who take the com-
prehensive course through to
graduation will be in line for a
job whose emoluments, even in-
cluding strike-time eo necessary
for the wharfie to recruit his
flagging powers, will put him in
the same income-group as com-
pany-directors, scientists, ac-
countants, lawyers, etc., and
within striking distance (not in
the usual sense) of that of
shearers’ cooks and Broken Hill
lead-miners.
A first-class staff of tutors
has been assembled.
One of the key-men is an ex-
weather expert. He will teach
prospective wharfies the method
of recognising, while it is still
low down on the horizon, any
cloud which could contain mois-
ture, the appearance of which
would of course be the signal
to immediately knock off loading
and retire quickly to the pub
and so avoid all risk of catarrh,
water on the brain or knee, the
“screws,” etc.
The services of an ex-smeller
from a tannery are at the dis-
posal of students for the vitally
important subject of detecting
such cargoes for the handling of
which “smell money” of iip to
ss. an hour may be demanded
of ship-owners. One of last
year’s brilliant students, who had
previously gained top honors
with a 34 p.c. pass in a psycho-
analytical test on the ability to
pour water out of a boot, be-
came so proficient at recognis-
ing objectionable odors that he
had no difficulty whatever in
agitating for “smell money” on
a cargo of plate-glass he was
watching being unloaded.
Against the possibility that a
double - dissolution of the
Federal Parliament could result
in another return to power of
the Chifley-Evatt Administration,
with the country’s foreign policy
again the exclusive prerogative
of the Waterside Workers’
Federation, the curriculum in-
cludes a course by a top Com-
munist on Soviet diplomacy.
Power politics and external
affairs generally.
Another important phase of a
wharfie’s education includes
correct wharfside or shipboard
deportment. Under the tutelage
of an expert, the prospective
wharfie will be taught how to
stand up asleep against a trolley
while from a distance he ap-
pears to be talking animatedly
down a hold ; how, by a .system
of prearranged signals, four men
can, when circumstances render
it impossible for them to get to-
fhe h bolH n T° rking hours d °wn
k- p ! ay a § ame of solo-
HifW °f crib . while maintaining
different positions among the
cargo on the wharf ; and how to
spin out mobility so that it takes
20 minutes to wheel one small
uf g P f , nails from the sling to
the shed 30 yards away. f n this
class the tyro will be taught the
correct way to drop a case so
that it will break open sufficiently
to obtain a look at the contents
and yet not damage it so much
that a tap with a hammer will
not repair it again should the
contents be lacking in aesthetic
interest. The method of drop-
ping an empty beer-bottle over
the side_ of the wharf without a
splash is a further invaluable
phase of this tuition.
Another vital subject is the
acquisition of “inside-oil” know-
ledge of how to collect 12s-a
day “appearance” money for a
10-minute morning show-up
which will scarcely interfere
with the day-time sleep neces-
sary for those holding tickets
but who are doing, say, night-
watchmen’s work somewhere in
the city. Unsolicited testi-
monials from satisfied past-
students will confirm our claim
that hundreds have benefited
from this phase of the course to
the extent that, while holding
other jobs down, their “appear-
ance” money has almost kept
them in beer throughout the
year.
One other part of the course,*
certainly the most important of
all, is available for the benefit
of the prospective wharfie. This,
of course, includes the way to'
obtain Communist-party cards,
which will absolutely ensure
your preferment in this pleasant
and highly remunerative pastime.
Don’t delay a day longer!
Join the E.I.S. classes and
qualify for a lifetime loaf at a
princely stipend!
Bo.


The name is
3
:
Pi
W
*
I £
=
7T
...
m m
ItlllllllltlllHIIIH)
$5.
I*
Meeting
an old friend
is always a
pleasurable
' /
occasion .
V
m
tfD
ntcmcAL 6 spotrssme
Ausmi/As tEAvm m/o
FOR AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST RANGE OF
HI-POWER AIR RIFLES
AIR
B.S.A. .22 AIR SPORTBR
Designed for destruction of pests up to
60 yards’ range. Barrel rifled and bored.
Takes special .22 B.S.A. pellets. Length
barrel 20in. Overall length 44fin. Weight 81b. Features new
improved underlever cocking.
PRICE £l6/10/-. Slugs 14/- per 1000.
B.S.A. .177 CLiIJB AIR RlEEES.— ldentical to above in general
design but fires .177 cal. Slugs. Suitable for pests up to 50yds.
range. 20in. barrel. Length 44in. Weight 7 41b.
PRICE £l6/10/-. Slugs 9/6 and 11/- per 1000.
BSA CADET
AH* RIFLE
B.S.A. “CADET” AIR RIEEB
Sufficiently powerful to kill rats and other
vermin up to 30yds. range. Trigger pull
is heavier than usual as a safety measure.
Breakdown type . . . barrel rifled for
accuracy. Fires .177 Pellets. Length of barrel 15in. Overall
length 37jin. Weight 4jlb.
PRICE £B/12/6. Slugs 9/6 and 11/- per 1000.
B.S.A. “CADET” MAJOR. —Larger and more powerful than Cadet.
Fitted with adjustable rearsight. Trigger pull has screw adjust-
ment to suit individual requirements. Length barrel 18 Jin.
Length 42in. Weight s|lb.
PRICE £9/7/6. Slugs 9/6 and 11/- per 1000.
=a
fer»
J JUNIOR AIR RIFLE
Continental manufacture. Specially designed.
Higher hitting power than on normal Air Rifles.
Breakdown design . . . sturdy construction. Barrel is smooth bore.
. . . sights adjustable. Effective range approx. 25yds. PRICE 907-
OTHER QUALITY AIR RIFLES, similar design, 50/3, 63/3
CKACKA-JACK AIR RIFLES FOR BOYS 41/9
SLUGS FOR ABOVE RIFLES;
Sliver Sings 4Jd. per 100. Blackboy Slugs 3/4 per 500.
Cracka-Jack Slugs 1/3 per 350.
SA
JUST ARRIVED
.23 B.S.A. “SPORTSMANS 10”
B.S.A. .22-cal. “SPORTSMANS TEN.”
Tubular 10-shot magazine, 25in. round
barrel. Satinwood stock. Beaver tail
fore-end.
PRICE £l3/19/6. .22 Cartridges Available with Rifle.
BROWNING AUTOMATIC 12 GAUGE
SHOT GUNS
dfg
d
BROWNING, the most popular shotgun
market. Sturdy construction. Fires
2iin. or 2fin. cartridges without adjustment. Fitted
with 2a jm. barrel, is fully choked. Capacity of five shells.
Walnut stock and fore-end, also pistol-grip stock.
PLAIN MODEL £53/6/-.
CARTRIDGES AVAILABLE WITH ALL GUNS
Free Shooting and Fishing Catalogue.
Free and Post Free. Write Now.
WsitimiiffilMA
fTY
LTD- Ph>ftf8?33/
291-293 HUNTER STREET. NEWCASTLE
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
A severe drought of several hours’
duration towards the end of last week
allowed the S.T.C. to sneak in a
meeting at Moorefield on Saturday.
Actually, it was a meeting which was
originally to have been held at
Canterbury the previous Saturday.
From that date it was postponed to
Wednesday last; on the Monday the
venue was altered to Moorefield, and
on Tuesday there was a further post-
ponement. The Rosehill meeting,
embodying the first leg of the S.T.C.’s
well-endowed winter double, which
should have been held last Saturday,
will be held next Saturday; the
second day of this meeting will be
held the following Saturday, this
becoming the first day of the new
season instead of the last day of
the old, as was intended. If the
reader finds the above a trifle con-
fusing he will at least readily under-
stand why most of the race-club
officials of our acquaintance have
aged perceptibly in recent weeks.
The prospect of traipsing to far-
flung Moorefield to spend an after-
noon in the rain and risk money on
moderate performers contesting prin-
cipally sprint events in boglike going
was not an enticing one, and attend-
ance was much on the light side.
However, as if to make amends for
some of the shortcomings of the
offering, Moorefield for once lived
up to its rather tattered reputation
of being a punters’ paradise; four
favorites and one equal favorite were
among the winners on a card of eight
events.
With a view to coming events the
most noteworthy performance of the
day was the very easy win enjoyed in
the Flying Handicap by Cognac, this
page’s selection for the first leg of
the S.T.C. double. The Flying calls
for little description; it was simply
Cognac from go to whoa, and the
Agincourt five-year-old had four
lengths to spare at the finish from
Journalist and Owner’s Lass. It must
be admitted they were a mediocre
bunch that Cognac beat, but he did
the job in really effortless fashion.
Times do not necessarily amount
to much, but, on the evidence of the
clock, the smartest run noted on
Saturday was that of the White Ensign
gelding Quarter Deck in beating
fellow two-year-olds over six furlongs.
Finishing strongly to defeat Bahram’s
Double by more than two lengths,
with Tuituilla a most distant third,
Quarter Deck registered 1.171.
Cognac’s time was 1.19, and winners
of three divisions of the Welter took,
respectively, 1.20, 1,21 and 1.20 for
the same trip.
Results of the divisions of the
Welter provided bookmakers with the
courage and the cash to meet with
reasonable equanimity the unwonted
onslaught of winning favorites in
other events. The first went to the
three-year-old Brueghel filly Pyramid
(R. Selkrig), starting at 9 to 1 and
finishing stylishly to down Brighton
and. Moora Binda. The second divi-
sion was a real turn-up for the books,
with the 66-to-l chance Goldak beat-
ing favorite New .Look by a couple
of lengths. The Whirlaway filly
Rhumba won the third Welter, start-
ing at sixes.
Young apprentice A. Eaves, who
had so delighted the bookies by
notching up his first metropolitan
success on Goldak, left the bagmen
singing a different tune when he made
his second winner Port Rion, equal
favorite for the Earlwood Mixed and
too good in a close finish for Double
Sea and the other equal favorite Bon-
fire. Completing the Canterbury-
cum-Moorefield programme, Dinanda
won the mile Maiden Stakes, and the
“Canterbury Park” Handicap saw
hot favorite Saville Row (N. Sell-
wood) just scrape home ahead of
the game old battler Brazier, a
Moorefield specialist, but usually con-
sidered more at home over a much
shorter trip than 10 furlongs.
* * * *
Any punters given, in this sophis-
ticated age, to the observing and
interpreting of signs, omens and
portents undoubtedly turned their
backs upon Caulfield immediately
after seeing the 50-to-l chance
Nelangie win Saturday’s first race,
the Leamington Hurdle. The vast
majority who chose to stay on did
so to their ultimate regret. There
was a surprisingly big attendance.
Turning out in Saturday’s miserably
cold, windy, wet weather they were
asking for punishment, and the same
came their way in large doses; seven
races without a solitary favorite
successful.
In the form guides Nelangie had
three “ones” before his name, but
since these wins had been scored on
the flat at country meetings they
were not thought much recommenda-
tion for a 17-furlongs hurdle race at
Caulfield. Nevertheless Nelangie ran
a really excellent race to defeat
favorite Tyrian by a couple of lengths.
While Tyrian was always well in the
running, Nelangie was a long way
back with half the journey covered,
but he made up his ground to collar
Tyrian at the last jump, and went on
comfortably to the post. To make
it a thorough skinner for bookies
operating on the jumping double, the
finish of the Redleap Steeple was
fought out by Burling and Tanakee,
both starting at 16 to 1. Ridden by
K. Denham, Burling had the upper
hand at the finish, and won by a
length and a quarter, with Royal Red
a distant third.
Having Billy Duncan’s record of
58 winners for a season all but in his
grasp must be having some sort of
psychological effect on jockey J.
Purtell. Needing one to equal and
two to beat Duncan’s record, Purtell
hasn’t now ridden a winner in three
meetings, and next Saturday will be
his last chance. The best he could
manage at Caulfield were a couple
of minor placings, in both of which
races the winner was ridden by his
leading rival, W. Williamson. In the
second Lillimur Two-year-old Wil-
liamson landed the Solar Bear geld-
ing Trailway a clear winner from
Lancastrian and favorite Pearl’s
Choice, who was ridden by Purtell.
Purtell went a bit closer to the
much-needed win in the 6-furlongs
Kambrook Handicap, his mount,
Regal Scout, being beaten a half-
length and a head by Ailsa and Silver
Scout.
•; • • •
The success of the utter outsider
Nelangie was almost repeated in two
other races. In the first Lillimur
Two-year-old the fairly-well-fancied
Tapio (L. Lott) led most of the way,
but was very hard pressed at the
"Ahoy! That you, Bill ?”
finish to hold off the 100-to-l chance
Love Racket; Sun Kist was third,
with the margins a neck and a head.
Also starting at 100 to 1, the former
Sydney performer Farhad went within
a half-neck of downing Noble Prince,
who was one of the fancied brigade
in an open market on the Malvina
Welter. Turning in a fair reversal
of form after finishing a long way
back when favorite at his previous
start, the Lo Zingaro four-year-old
Milford (W. A. Smith) had the
measure of Stamen, Mulatto and
other stayers in the 12-furlongs Mur-
rumbeena Handicap.
3ft * * *
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances) :
Corinthian Handicap: Fresteem, 1;
Collisun, 2; Sir Marcher, 3. Two-
year-old Handicap; Panama, 1;
Manstride, 2; Nirandoli, 3, Merry-
lands Mixed: Matinee, 1; Valiant
Step, 2; School St".r, 3. Auburn
Mixed: Dinanda, 1; Port Rion, 2;
Tahlee, 3. Winter Handicap: Cognac,
1; Brazier, 2; Heroic Sovereign, 3.
Rosehill Handicap; Buonarroti Boy,
1; Blue Mickie, 2; Bolivia, 3.
Welter: Red Loch, 1; Golden Tan,
2; Sodium, 3.
* * * ♦
In pleasing contrast to - the very
bad publicity which had accompanied
its progress the English Rugby League
team’s Australian tour ended on a
happy note of good sportsmanship at
Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday.
In the third and deciding Test the
Australians proved themselves beyond
doubt the better team, and all con-
cerned with the English party fully
and generously acknowledged the
fact; there were no moans, squeals
or excuses. The match was played
in the near-impossible conditions
offered by a sea of particularly liquid
mud. The Australians held the
visitors throughout. At half time
the score was 2-all, representing a
goal apiece, and in the second half
winger Ron Roberts scored the
decisive try, making the final
score 5-2. The win gave Australia
the “Ashes” for the first time in
nearly 30 years, and the real praise
is due to the Australian coach, Vic
Hey. Much of the unpleasantness
surrounding the earlier part of the
League tour centred round the
Englishmen’s bitter, and not alto-
gether unjustified, criticism of the
referees they had encountered. Tom
McMahon did the job on Saturday,
and did it splendidly. McMahon has
long been recognised- as an outstand-
ing ref., and why he was not brought
on the scene until the tour was nearly
over is a matter for the consciences
of some League officials.
* * * *
Mud ruled the earth on football
grounds' from Melbourne to Brisbane
on Saturday, both capitals being little
better off than Sydney, and though
the Australian game had temporarily
ousted Rugby League in Brisbane,
scene of the Rules carnival, the sides
were unable to give displays of the
game at its best. In Melbourne there
were only three games, chief being
that between North and Melbourne
for, second place in “the four.”
North won it by 7.13 to 4.8, Essendon
beat Geelong, 8.14-6.9, and Fitzroy
beat Richmond, 6.10-5.6, the scores
showing the state of the grounds.
Highlight of the Australian Rules
carnival in Brisbane was a night
game between West Australia and
South Australia. A big crowd went
to the Exhibition Ground, which was
waterlogged, and, under floodlighting
and with a white ball and in rain,
the teams managed to stage a display
that set Brisbane talking and Vic-
torians thinking about night football
in Melbourne. It was tried in Sydney
a couple of years ago with Rugby
League, but didn’t become popular.
Anyhow, S.A. won. Victoria beat
W.A. on Saturday and meets S.A.
for the championship.
With only two rounds to play
before the semi-finals, the R.U. com-
petition is reaching an interesting
stage. After last Saturday’s matches
the leading four are Gordon (21
points), Manly (20 points), Easts and
Norths (18 points); the others with
a chance of making the final four
are Wests (17 points), University and
St. George (16 points). Easts will
have the opportunity of gaining an
extra two points with their match
against Drummoyne, which was post-
poned earlier in the season. What
makes it difficult to forecast the semi-
finalists is that Eastwood, Randwick
and Drummoyne, three teams having
no chance of making the final four,
are quite capable of beating any of
the leading teams. In the premiership
play-off Ist plays 2nd, and the
winner goes straight into the grand-
final ; the loser plays in the final
against the winner between the 3rd
and 4th to decide who will be the
other grand-finalist. In a normal
season, in which weekly club games
are not interrupted by representative
fixtures, the team that wins the first
semi-final welcomes the week’s rest
to recuperate and repair injuries after
a hard season of 20 competition
matches. This season, however, teams
north of the Harbor will have played
only 15 and south of the Harbor
only 14 matches —and these inter-
spersed with byes—before the semi-
finals, which themselves will be
delayed by the matches against the
British Isles team. In addition,
abnormal weather has badly ham-
pered training, so that, considered all
round, teams will need every match
possible to bring them to their top,
and it will be a doubtful advantage
that the winner of the first semi-final
will gain in missing the final and
going straight into the grand-final.
In the matches last week Gordon
suffered its second successive defeat
in going down to University, 6-3;
Norths and Easts played a nil-all
draw; Manly beat Wests, 24-3;
Drummoyne beat Eastwood, 14-8;
St. George beat Parramatta, 24-5;
Randwick had the bye.
* * * ♦
“Bill Ding”: In a recent Bulletin
“Pass-it” spoke sorrowfully of the
poaching of Australian Rugby Union
players by English League clubs.
Union authorities here, however, are
facing nothing like the problem
assailing English Soccer people at
the moment. Ten thousand pounds a
year—wages, bonuses on wins and
draws and hotel accommodation on
a lavish scale is the reward of a
Erofessional Soccer player lured from
ngland to Bogota, Colombia, by the
Millionaires’ Soccer Club. Several
other internationals, English and
Scotch, succumbed to similar baits,
notwithstanding their contracts with
British clubs. The South American
Soccer clubs of late years have made
immense sums from the game. They
have no maximum wage ideas, as in
Britain, and pay a player according
to his drawing ability, hence the
temptation to quit Britain and make
hay while the sun shines beyond the
Atlantic. The Soccer clubs of the
United States’ Middle West have also
entered the battle for British talent.
They secured enough of it to help
them to a good position in the
“world series” just played at Rio de
Janeiro.


The Modern
Method
fg
of marking
lambs & calves
ELASTRATOR
(REGD. TRADE MARK)
CASTRATOR & TAILER
with the ELASTRATOR RING
Obtainable from Station Suppliers, Woolbrokers,
Chemists and Stores. A product of ELASTRATOR
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
ELII
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit
and Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activity.
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or 1/2*- posted from
Bulletin Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
griader for shearing-shed work.
iJjJUJiJ
smaxos
4oz. f Boz., 16 6 z., 1 gallon sizes ... Hardware and general stores.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
FEDERAL LAND TAX RETURNS.
Returns of land held at midnight on 30th June, 1950, are required to be
lodged on or before 31st August, 1950.
Land Tax returns must he submitted by persons resident in Jhe
Commonwealth when the total unimproved value of land held is £4wu
or over, and by or on behalf of absentees where the unimproved value
is £1 or over.
Where land holdings have altered in any way since 30th June, 1949,
Form “C” should he used. Where no change has taken place a declaration
(Form “CA”) to that effect is sufficient. .
The unimproved value to be returned is that as at 30th June, 1939-
For Land Tax purposes values are pegged at this date.
Where land is held in more than one State returns should be fonvarde
to the Deputy Federal Commissioner of Taxation, Box 709(r.
Melbourne. Forms of return and full information may be
the principal Post Offices or at Federal Taxation Office, 3rd Floor, Safe
Bank Building, 21-23 Elizabeth Street, Sydney—Postal address, Box ww,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Penalty for late lodgment: 10 p.c. additional tax —minimum 11-
Penalty for failure to lodge returns: £lOO. nr
NOTE: Perpetual Crown Leases which are not subject to
which have the right of purchase must be included in the rei
W. A. PERT, . T . Tax
Deputy Commissioner of Land J-ax.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Dipping Points.
“J.R.D.” As a preventive
against external parasites, dip-
ping at normal concentrations is
a waste of time and money. The
same applies to dipping clean
sheep “to improve the tip” or
assist wool-growth. The only
way a dip can do either is by
killing insect parasites of bacteria
that might injure the growth and
condition of the wool.
Keds (sheep-ticks) and lice can
be controlled by correct dipping,
but, so far, no dip is 100 per
cent, effective against itch-mite.
Dipping in bluestone or zinc
sulphate will exert some control
on the bacteria and fungi that
attack the fleece and cause wool-
rot or water-rot and dermatitis.
Arsenic is the basis of most
of the old-established dips, and
is often combined with sulphur.
Phenyl dips are popular because
of easy mixing and ability to
remain evenly mixed without the
constant stirring required by a
powder or suspension dip.
To these have been added the
new insecticides D.D.T. and
8.F1.C. From each of these
groups, old and new, scores of
hybrid products have sprung,
some of which appear to cater
for the credulous by including a
bit of every successful chemi-
cal to form a sort of shotgun
remedy that is claimed to cure
everything. Unfortunately, the
quantity of each chemical re-
quired to do the job is no less
than that used in each of the
straightout dips, and the mixture
of bits and pieces is about as
effective as dipping in plain
water.
For lice the cheapest dip is
arsenic. D.D.T. and gammexane
are equally efficient, but slightly
more expensive. They have the
advantage, however, of being
pleasanter to use, and are not
so harsh on the wool. Arsenic
will also kill adult keds, but it
has little effect in the younger
stages or on eggs, so, to be effec-
tive, a second dipping three to
four weeks later is necessary. The
addition of derris to arsenic in-
creases its tick-killing power
and usually remains in the wool
long enough to kill the young,
which hatch later.
Gammexane will kill both lice
and ticks at one dipping, but it
must be used properly. Sheep
going through a dip “strip” the
insecticide from the fluid, and
the bath needs regular topping-
up to keep it effective. Arsenic
should not be used stronger than
the recommendations on the
packet, but D.D.T. and gam-
mexane are safer and give better
results and longer protection at
higher strengths, the only limit
being cost. For foot-lice gam-
mexane is on its own.
For itch-mite use lime sulphur.
This should be used quite apart
from any other dipping for lice
and keds. It is not 100 per cent,
effective and will doubtless be
superseded by something better ;
meantime it is the best.
A dip can be expected to do
its job only if used strictly ac-
cording to manufacturer’s direc-
tions. Unfortunately, only one
man in a hundred takes the
trouble to read the instructions
through. The essentials of dip-
ping are that the sheep must be
saturated to the skin with fluid
of the required strength, and
this entails ducking heads twice
in a swim dip. In a spray dip it
is better to give sheep a little
more time under the shower
than to cut it short. Short swim
dips are often a cause of ineffec-
tive dipping.
Sheep losses and ailments fol-
lowing dipping are much too
common, and the fault is usually
traceable to the human factor.
It is a temptation to take risks
with the weather to avoid a
second muster, but the danger
of dipping in changeable or
showery weather is too great,
particularly in arsenical dips.
Don’t dip off the shearing-
board. Lots of people do it and
get away with it for a while, but
sooner or later there is a
smash. Every veterinary
authority warns against the prac-
tice, and no responsible dip-
manufacturer advocates it. Wait
until the shearing cuts have
dried up—three or four days may
be sufficient for nonrarsenical
dips. Wait still longer if dip-
ping in arsenic.
Don’t be misled into thinking
that dips contain sufficient anti-
septics to protect sheep against
all germs. Some dips include
antiseptic to control the germ
that causes lameness after dip-
ping, but to kill those germs that
cause blood-poisoning and pus-
forming organisms would be im-
possible. The concentration df
lysol, for instance, required to
kill those germs would be so
strong that it would kill every
sheep dipped in it.
If you must dip sheep off the
board there is only one course,
which is expensive, and even its
I'll leave the key under the mat .”
safety cannot be guaranteed.
Use a reliable non-arsenical
fluid —gammexane for preference
—in a power-spray dip, and use
the fluid once only. In other
words, let nothing drain back
into the sump. Sheep carry bac-
teria into the dip on their feet,
they drain back into the sump
in the droppings, and a swim
dip that has stood for several
days after being used is likely
to be alive with wogs.
Another disadvantage of dip-
ping sheep off the board is that
it adds to the time they have
been kept off feed. If sheep go
down in the yard or on the way
back to the paddock after shear-
ing and dipping think twice be-
fore you blame the dip. It may
be lambing sickness (hypocal-
caemia), and an injection of
calcium borogluconate and an
hour on good feed will put them
on their feet again.
Few people realise that the
skin of a sheep is more tender
than that of a human being, so
if the skin of your hand or arm
is irritated by the dip or the fly-
dressing you use, remember that
the sheep is being irritated or
burnt twice as severely.
The “dip mark” on a fleece is
seldom due to the action of the
chemical unless excess caustic
or washing-soda has been used
with arsenic. Putting sheep
through a bath fouled with
droppings is usually the cause.
Finally, don’t expect dipping
at the strength used for ticks
and lice to protect sheep from
flystrike. Arsenic for jetting
has to be used at a much higher
strength than for dipping, while
D.D.T. and B.H.C. for flystrike
control should be 10 to 20 times
dipping strength.
The Dairy Herd.
“Mr.”: The problem of breed-
ing dairy-herd replacements was
a relatively simple one until
herd-testing complicated matters
with its production records of
individuals and families. It
made things easier in one
respect, enabling the low pro-
ducer to be located, but after
disposal of the culls it rather
confused a herdowner as to
which breeding path to follow to
further improve his herd.
There were the two extremes,
inbreeding and the crossing of
two unrelated breeds, with
numerous courses between. This
indecision is understandable
when you find a herd whose
high production and other
desirable qualities can be traced
to inbreeding, while another,
equally outstanding, is founded
on the crossing of two quite
unrelated breeds.
As pointed out by K. M.
Sillcock, B.Agr.Sc. (Vic.), in-
breeding tends to retain and con-
centrate qualities which a family
already possesses, both the good
and the bad. It won’t add new
traits, though characteristics
which remain hidden in a cow
family until inherited in a
“double dose,” i.e., from both
parents, may be brought to
light. A horned animal, for ex-
ample, may appear in a polled
breed, the horned character
being passed on by both parents.
Sillcock advises using only
superior members of good fami-
lies free from serious defects for
inbreeding purposes, and says
that if proper care is taken the
programme can be carried to
great lengths without deteriora-
tion of the stock.
The mating of two unrelated
or distantly-related animals (an
outcross) can be used to com-
bine desirable features of two
families, e.g., high production
of one with good vessels of
another. To combine desired
traits, an outcross followed by
line-breeding towards one of the
original families often gives
good results, but in mating two
r^ ree d S a complete re-
shuffling of genes occurs, with
unpredictable results. It’s much
safer, Sillcock believes, to fol-
low the first course-grade up to
one of the original breeds from
the first-cross animal.
Turkeys for Profit.
“Malo”: Turkey-raising can
pay even where free range is
limited. The main thing is to
prevent dampness in their
SJTfl’ rheumatism and
black-head cause heavy losses
in wet or insanitary yards and
houses.
Poults are hard to rear bv
hand, and heaviest losses occur
during the baby stage. It i s best
to allow the hens to make their
own nests, and make sure that
gram and water are available for
them when they come stealthily
off the nest. Feed the young
ones with milk-curd at first.
Turkey eggs can be success-
fully hatched by incubation, but
strict rules of feeding and hous-
ing must be followed. A heavy
protein ration and liberal sup-
plies of chopped greens are
essential for poults. After a
month in the brooder they
should be transferred to cooler
quarters and gradually intro-
duced to clean, cemented sheds
with beeswing, etc., underfoot.
Information about diseases,
how to prevent and cure them’
drugs and quantities to be mixed
with mash, etc., can be obtained
from Departments of Agricul-
ture free.
Turkeys should be raised in
time for Christmas and Easter
markets, allowing six months for
growth. After that the finest
hens should be selected as layers
and stimulated by increased sun-
light in houses and by electric
light if available. Raising of
poults in autumn and spring,
when there are no extremes of
weather, is the way to go about
it.
Hybrid Maize.
“Agric”; America led the
world on hybrid maize-seed pro-
duction, but it took her many
years to convince the bulk of her
farmers that hybrids were the
answer to their seed-improve-
me n t problems. Australian
farmers, benefiting from tbe ex-
perience of the Americans, have
swung to hybrid maize at a
rapid pace, having had only
three years in the commercial
hybrid field.
The Armidale (N.S.W.) dis-
trict agronomist, H. A. Gran-
tham, estimates that over 75 per


MODERN
SANITATION
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
HYGEIA DISSOLVEHATOR
(Complete self-contained sanitary
system ,l
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYIN<
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
ANY HANDYMAN CAN
INSTAL IT
Sewage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that
runs away into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet,
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY,, LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
dfg
— DISTRIBUTORS : *
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(NS.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land). 609 Colonial Mutual
Building,' Queen St.. Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne. . ,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby k Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN; O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
f\RED FEET?
St
Hot. tired feet need
this treatment; —
A Cuticura Soap bath
and Cuticura Oint-
ment application. Try
it_and enjoy real foot
comfort. Cuticura
Ointment, €oap and
Talcum Powder—
the famous
trio.
532
d
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Pine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s srood.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 17, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
■Phenovis" Worm Remedy #
time '*
sr.*miso time!
/<//
K/vPP.
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
gd
g
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-8191
s
Feeling TIRED, RUN DOWN?
Win freedom from Headaches, Rheumatism, Depression Backaches
and other common ills. A daily dose of B.U.U. will sweep all
poisons right out of your system. Buy a 2/- packet of ready-
to take R.U.R. from your Chemist TODAx.
R. U. R.
KK
SPRAY SECTIONS NOW
NOW! IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
ON ALL ALUMINIUM ORDERS
Ci
OHt
\R*' G
Good irrigation MAKES money
for you . . . and Rainbow Spray Irrigation SAVES,
money and work. The 48 feet coverage of each
spray-head means a third less sect.ons to buy and
to move around! Rainbow Spray Irrigation gives you
better irrigation at far less cost.
aluminium mains and sections
Liahtweioht durable spray sections and 24 ft. mains, approxi-
mately HALF the weight and TWICE the life of ordinary
mains and sections.
SPRAY IRRIGATION IS BEST, AND
THE BEST SPRAY IRRIGATION!
RAINBOW" MAKES
THE DBS I
rainbow
SPRAY
IRRIGATION
83 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. ’PHONE BU 3425
Queen,landf WAUGH I JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD 102-124
Melbourne St„ Sth. Brisbene. VrcbonarG. BEAUMONT,
M Kin, St.. Melbourne —MU 5271. South Australia: RALPH
CURRY, 24 Light Sq., Adelaide. Phone: C 1065.
60/83.8A
Cr O
SPECIAL SPRAY HEAD
Scientifically designed to throw
a spray over an area of 48 ft.
square.
f
FLEXIBLE COUPLINGS
Worked on ball and socket prin-
ciple, flexible in all directions up
to angles of better than 25%.
Easy adjustment, positive lock.
g
COMBINED OUTLET
AND HYDRANT
Vastly improved hydrant simpli-
fies operation, gives
minimum obstruction in
both outlet and main.
COMPACT
STURDY STANDS
Sturdy angle iron, with-
out cross-bars, to give
maximum support with
minimum interference
with vegetation.
fg
cent, of his district is now
planted with hybrid seed.
Farmers there have had the en-
couragement of the hybrid-
maize enthusiast Don Shand,
whose Shand Seed Co. is now
Australia’s largest producer of
hybrid seed. Seed supplies last
year were far below demand,
and many areas had to be sown
to standard maize varieties.
It is probable that had hybrid
seed been plentiful the N.S.W.
average annual yield of below
30 bushels per acre could have
risen towards the 40-bushel
mark, in which case it would
require about 5000 trucks, each
capable of loading four tons, to
transport the extra grain derived
from hybrid seed.
Shand points out that re-
search workers have found that
hybrid vigor is lost immediately
after the first generation of
hybridising due to uncontrolled
pollination. Hybrids are not the
only answers to the present low-
average maize-yield problem.
Experiments indicate that most
hybrids increase the yield by
about 25 per cent., but this in-
crease demands better soil hus-
bandry, particularly in crop
rotation.
A Maize Champion.
“C.S.”: A. R. Chittick, a
Kangaroo Valley farmer, won
this year’s Sydney R.A.S. South
Coast maize contest with a crop
of giant white likely to yield 130
bushels an acre. It was grown
on an old lucerne paddock,
planted closely in rows 3ft.
apart at lOin. to 12in. between
plants. It got lewt. of super, an
acre and had the benefit of a
wonderful growing season.
Übrihien Bros., Bega (Learning),
and A. C. Dell, Hawkesbury
(Learning), filled the places.
Aerial Spraying of Locusts.
“Rooster”: Four years ago
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture and the R.A.A.F. tried
an aerial-spraying campaign
against egg-laying swarms of
grasshoppers. Since then aerial
spraying has proved itself, and
its general use would doubtless
pay dividends,
Beaufort Mark IX aircraft
fitted with spray-bars were
used, the spray-load of the plane
being increased by using the
two inner main fuel-tanks to
carry spray solution ; 500 gallons
a trip. Standard solution used
throughout was 4 per cent, of
gammexane in diesel-fuel oil.
The gammexane contained 13
per cent, of the gamma isomer.
Senior entomologist, T. W.
Hogan, reports that aerial spray-
ing was used against ’hopper
bands only if they occupied an
area of more than 20 acres. A
total of 7000 acres was sprayed,
most of them in young wheat
crops. Winged locusts arrived
in north-west Victoria early in
November, ranging in density
from one to over 20 per square
feet, many of them loose
swarms. This was far from
plague proportion, the aerial
spraying having been effective
against the pest in the “hopper”
stage. Other swarms crossed the
Murray but continued eastward
beyond the agricultural areas.
The procedure followed a set
plan. A ground team went
ahead of the plane to size up
the local topography and exact
location and density of swartns.
Areas were then subdivided and
smoke-markers set out. Flights
generally were at right-angles to
the wind, beginning on the
down-wind side, then going up-
wind to avoid going over the
sprayed area. Swathes of about
70 yards were used. A total
spraying time of just under two
minutes per run enabled a plane
travelling at 140 knots per hour
to cover 9140 yards, equivalent
to 129 acres.
In all, about 30,000 acres of
grassland and crops were treated
with 120,000 gallons. Stock will
not readily feed on freshly-
sprayed pasture, but if confined
to it will eat it with no ill
effect. A test with dairy-cows
showed that the gammexane did
not taint the milk.
Awards for Farmers.
“C.S.”: The Nuffield Founda-
tion will, in each of the next few
years, offer two travelling
scholarships to enable progres-
sive Australian farmers to spend
not less than six months in the
United Kingdom.
The foundation will meet
travelling expenses, a living
allowance and, if necessary,
arrange to look after a man’s
farm while he is away. The
foundation will also arrange the
itinerary in the U.K. Candi-
dates, who may be male or
female, should be over 25 but
not much over 35 years of age.
When making the awards re-
gard will be had to the appli-
cant’s capacity to communicate
his experience to other farmers
|)n his return. The first scholar-
ships, to be taken up early in
1951, are being offered to
’armers in South Australia,
Western Australia and the
Northern Territory. In the fol-
lowing year awards will be
offered in Victoria and Tasmania
and in the next year in N.S.W.,
the A.C.T. and Queensland.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sarina”: Nothing unusual
about grasses dying-out around
big trees (B. 21/6/’5O). The
roots of the trees make away
with all the moisture and plant-
food, and the grasses perish
through thirst and starvation. In
the case of leafy trees, such as
mangoes and tamarinds, stock
sheltering beneath them in hot
weather tramp the ground so
hard that nothing like grass can
survive.
“Rooster”: In New Zealand
it is the general practice to graze
calves in rotation around the
cow-paddocks ahead of the cows
so that the calves obtain the
best of the pasture before it is
contaminated by calves or cows.
Over the past eight years caiv«B
grazed in this way averaged
761 b. heavier at nine months old
than calves reared by the usual
method.
“C.A.A.”: To avoid botulism
in cattle don’t feed mouldy fod-
ders, and see that adequate
phosphates are added to the diet.
Two to four ounces of bonemeal
or boneflour in the daily feed
and licks of equal parts of salt
and bonemeal (to prevent bone-
chewing) will ward it off.
“Sundowner”: Young pigs
kept in close confinement often
suffer rickets. Dose with half
to one teaspoon of cod-liver or
other fish-oil. Affected older
pigs may require two tablespoons
a day. If dairy by-products are
scarce finely-ground limestone is
a valuable adjunct. Where
home-grown corn, cereals or
root crops are being used it will
be convenient to feed the neces-
sary calcium by mixing 3cwt. of
limestone, lewt. of salt and
lewt. of super, in this feed sup-
plied either as a three per cent,
mixture or as a lick. Where
whey is fed lib. of limestone
can be added to each 40gal. drum
of whey to check acidity.
“Myrrhee”: Recent experi-
ments at Roseworthy (S.A.)
have shown that when in-lamb
ewes were fed Hlb. of cereal
straw-chaff, Ulb. of wheat and
2oz. of linseed-meal daily preg-
nancy toxaemia didn’t occur,
though 28 per cent, of controlled
sheep not provided with supple-
ments died. Other suitable
supplements are oats, grass or
lucerne-hay. Molasses, dissolved
in an equal quantity of water
and sprinkled on the feed, is
beneficial. .
“Bill C”: To get rid of
charred insects in the burner of
a kerosene-lamp, shake them out,
then soak the burner in hot soda
solution to clear out the carbon.


Missing Friends.
WILL any person able to give any infor-
mation as to the present whereabouts of
MRS. ANNIE MAY O’CONNOR (nee
LIVOCK), wife of Mr. William James
O’Connor, of Charters Towers, please com-
municate with Mr. T. H. PHILLIPS,
Solicitor. Gill Street, Charters Towers.
O’MEARA, Sarah.I—Will 1 —Will anyone knowing
the whereabouts of SARAH O’MEARA
(formerly Simper) please communicate
with J. McNEILL SIMPSON, Solicitor,
Hay.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON *
wmuJVAx
fV mvnx .
trade
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
READ OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS ft OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTTPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIB STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
EULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS 1 : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACKSUL.” BRISBANE
use
gem
blades
I
Divorce Notices.
IN
Se S*sS*2lS B SLr^
HELEN MAY MILLAR has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2877 of 1949 on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse and
is asking for the Court to exercise its
discretion under Section 19 (2) ( a ) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 V If Y ou
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Sydney by the Third day of October
1950 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MR. J. B. FER-
GUSON, Solicitor, Hosking House, Hosk-
ing Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN.
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divoece.
TO JOYCE SYLVIA JEAN SCHULTZ late
of Dulwich HiII.—TAKE NOTICE that
EDGAR JOHN PAUL SCHULTZ has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2491 of 1950
on the grounds of Desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 27th day of September 1950 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. HUNT & HUNT,
Solicitors, of 15 Bligh Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO DUDLEY WILLIAM COLLINS ROB-
ERTSON address unknown J.eweller and
Watchmaker.—TAKE NOTICE that
PRANCES AMY ROBERTSON of 35 Hill
View Road Mt. Lawley in the State of
Western Australia Married Woman claim-
ing to be lawfully married to you has
commenced an action and filed a claim
against -you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia (Matrimonial Causes
No. 255 of 1950) for a Dissolution of
Marriage on the ground of your adultery
with JOANNA JOSEPHINE GLOSSOP Co-
Defendant If you desire to defend the
said action you must within forty days
(40) clear after the date of the publica-
tion of this Notice file in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court Perth a state-
ment of your Defence to the Plaintiff’s
claim or a counterclaim for any relief
to which you are entitled In default of
your so doing the said PRANCES AMY
ROBERTSON may proceed in the action
and the Court may hear evidence and
judgment may be given in your absence
A copy of the Writ of Summons with
the Statement of Claim endorsed may be
obtained by you free of charge on appli-
cation to the undermentioned Solicitors
for the Plaintiff. DATED the 13th day
of July, 1950.—G. J. BOYLSON, Regis-
trar. MESSRS. SPEED & CANTOR,
Padbury Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff herein.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divoece.
TO LESLIE EDWIN FARLEY late of
Sydney Sculptor.—TAKE NOTICE that
MAY HELEN PARLEY has filed a Peti-
tion for Restitution of Conjugal Rights
No. 3990 of 1949 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 11th day of Sep-
tember 1950 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from WM.
LIEBERMAN & TOBIAS, Solicitors, 56
Hunter Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
JOANNA JOSEPHINE GLOSSOP
Iress unknown Married Woman.
KE NOTICE that HORACE
lANUEL GLOSSOP of Carnarvon in the
ite of Western Australia Diesel Engi-
;r claiming to be lawfully married to
a has commenced an action and nlea
daim against you in the Supreme Court
Western Australia (Matrimonial Causes
. 335 of 1950) for a Dissolution Of
.rriage on the ground of your adultery
th DUDLEY WILLIAM COLLINS
iBERTSON Co-Defendant If you desire
defend the said action you must within
ty days (40) clear after the date of
; publication of this Notice -file in h
ntral Office of the Supreme Court Perth
Statement of your Defence to the Flam-
’s claim or a counterclaim for any
ief to which you are entitled In oe
ilt of your so doing the said HORAOL
lANUEL GLOSSOP may proceed m the
don and the Court may hear evidence
J judgment may be given m 3
sence A copy of the Writ of S'lmm
;h the Statement of Claim endorsed may
obtained by you free of charge on
ilication to the undersigned Solicitors
the Plaintiff. OATEH thei 13th day
r„i v toko—G. J. BOYLSON, Regis
r! MESSRS. SPEED & CANTOR. PaJ-
py Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth,
icitors for the Plaintiff herein.
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divoece.
WILLIAM THOMAS DOWER late
hgow.—TAKE NOTICE that DOROm
NE DOWER has filed Pe tlton d
/orce No. 2154 of 1950 on the grounds
desertion for three years a . , is^in g
diout just cause or excuse and ~ °
the Court’s discretion under Sc
2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
18« ( ’ll you wish to
stry Supreme uouiv ;lJld
ay the 9th day of October 1960 an
teorge Street, Sydney .-J- DOLOn*
THE MAGIC CRICKETER
by P.J. LE RICHE
ELL ” said Mr - Todd ’
\ A / w *Pi n 8 his moustache
yy with a downward
squeezing movement
now almost extinct. “The Aus-
tralians have come and, as you
might say, gone, and South
Africa has not only lost, but has
been defeated.”
His audience nodded, the
subtlety of the last sentence not
lost on us.
“And to think,” Mr. Todd
went on, “that if Bill Akers had
only played for South Africa, as
he has every right to do, being
born and bred here, the world
would now have been laughing
outright at the Australians
instead of smiling kindly-like at
us!”
“Then, why wasn’t he
chosen?” hotly demanded a
younger member who was not
able to view certain portions of
the tour objectively. “The selec-
tors” —
Mr. Todd held up his hand in
a dignified manner. “It had
nothing to do with the selectors,”
he said. “You couldn't have
persuaded Bill to play.”
“Why not?” almost shouted
the young man to whom such
a refusal appeared as the
blackest treachery.
“Control yourself,” said Mr.
Todd reprovingly, “Cricket,
after all, is only a game, and
when a man has a wife and
family and has to face up to
the consequences of defeating
an Australian cricket team, so
to say, single-handed, he is
quite entitled to ask himself
whether he is justified in taking
the risk.”
Mr. Todd looked at the circle
of open mouths surrounding
him and ordered himself another
beer.
“It couldn’t happen,” said a
member of about Mr. Todd’s
own condition of life, shaking
his head. “It would be very
nice, but it couldn’t be.”
“It has happened,” said Mr.
Todd tersely.
There was silence while we
hunted in our minds for the
ques-
tion. At length someone found
it. “Why wasn’t it in the
papers?” he asked.
“The newspapers,” said Mr.
Todd, “never heard of it. There
was no reported present nor any
stranger, and all those there
would have died rather than
have spoken of it.
“It all happened long ago,
when another Australian team
was visiting here. And by
purest accident it was that Bill’s
talents were discovered just at
that time, his and his elder
brother’s, Sam. For it is really
Sam who is the hero of the
occasion I was telling you
about, and why we know that
Bill could do what Sam did is
because, when surprise was ex-
pressed at Sam’s ability, he said
his young brother Bill was
better, started younger and had
a better eye.
“Sam and Bill grew up in the
North-West Cape. Their father
refused to buy them a gun of
any kind, but, as they were keen
hunters, they practised throw-
ing stones until they could bring
down partridges on the wing.”
“Why didn’t they go in for
catapults?” somebody asked.
Mr, Todd looked coldly at
him. “They considered it de-
grading,” he said.
“As I was saying,” he went
on, “they practised throwing
stones until they were able to
hunt successfully. When news
of the slaughter came to the
ears of their father, he was
much put out. He was a vege-
tarian and a teetotaller and
looked on all amusement as
vanity. So that Sam and Bill
h?d never had toys nor played
games.
“Thinking matters over, their
father saw that he would have
to give them something to do
that would occupy their minds,
or the slaughter of birds and
animals would go on. To his
honor be it said that after long
consideration he decided that
cricket, and cricket alone, was
the game in favor of which he
could slacken his convictions
about the idleness and vanity of
all amusements. He bought the
boys a bat, ball and stumps.
< <-p HERE was a pan near the
* house with a hard level
surface, and the boys took to
the game at once. They might
of course have become mere
sloggers thus amusing them-
selves, and never rising much
above the average. But those
cricket things were precious.
They knew their father, and the
wrench it had been to him to
provide what they had been
given, and they doubted if he
could replace anything and
survive.
“Thus, from the start, it was
science, skill, touch they con-
centrated on. They learned to
send over the ball, so controlled,
it appeared to defy gravity, for
it would touch with the lightness
of a feather and then rise with
the speed of a bullet. They
This story is from South
Africa. There is no other
way of explaining it.
could make it swerve in the air,
sideways, up or down; appear
to hesitate and shoot forward
again; break fast, medium or
slow without ever giving any in-
dication of what was going to
happen.
“They never allowed the ball
to strike the wicket fully as they
feared for both ball and stump.
Whenever one did get past the
other’s defence, the ball would
merely touch the off- or near-
stump, just dislodging the bail
and no more.
“It was the same with their
batting. They never (while they
had only the one bat, at any
rate) met a ball full-on. They
had completely mastered the
art of sending it the longest
possible distance with the lightest
application, of force. A fast
bowler would send one down,
and Sam or Bill would step out
and loft it for a six, in the direc-
tion it was going, or maybe
with a slight deflection, and you
hardly heard the contact be-
tween bat and ball. It was un-
canny.
* i A T first they neglected plac-
** ing, inevitably, because,
always speeding the ball on its
way, as it were, the way they
did, their range of placing was
limited.
“It was their dog that altered
that, plus the fact that by this
time they were growing up, and
had found ways and means of
getting hold of spare balls and
a bat or two.
“The dog wanted to field a
ball, and the boys made up their
minds he wasn’t to be allowed
to do so after he had left teeth-
marks on their first and most
precious ball. The dog watched
the bowler like a hawk and
could anticipate better than
Nourse.
“They divided the field
mentally into strips designated
by number and letters, and
whoever was batting would
indicate where he was going to
send the ball by shouting a
number or letter. The bowler
would then deliver the ball in
such a manner as to make it
appear it would have to be sent
to the opposite part of the field,
and the dog would race there,
thus enabling the bowler to get
to the ball first.
“When the dog learned the
code they changed it. He never
got another ball and died of a
bioken heart. It was sad, of
course, and both Sam and Bill
were sorry they had not realised
earlier how hard the dog was
taking his failures. However,
he had not lived in vain.
< * f T was while the Australians
* were touring the country
that Sam for the first time in his
life saw a large town. Let us
say it was Kimberley. Fate or
chance, or whatever you like to
call it, led him to the field where
the local team was practising.
He became so engrossed that he
forgot his natural shyness, and
called out several times such
things as ‘Hi! You’ll ruin that
bat’ and ‘Heavens, man! If
you bowl like that, why don’t
you tell the man first where you
are going to drop it?’
“At last the captain walked
over to where Sam was standing.
He was angry, but when he got
near and saw Sam’s innocent
face, and high stiff-coliar, and
black suit with yellow boots, he
somehow felt sorry for him and
decided to let him down lightly.
‘Look here,’ he said, ‘either you
must keep quiet or you must go
away. Unless, of course, you
would like to come and show
us how to do it,’ he added,
meaning to scare Sam off.
But Sam completely misunder-
stood him. It was so evident to
Sam that these men ought to be
shown how to play cricket that
it never occurred to him that the
captain was speaking sarcasti-
cally. He blushed, and said
‘Well, if you like, I will.’
The captain was speechless
for a moment. Then he said
grimly. ‘Come on.’ He put Sam
at one end and his fastest bowler
at the other.
The bowler took .a long run,
and sent down one that was to
scare the daylight out of Sam.
Sam* stepped out and sped it
on its way.. High up it went
almost straight in the direction
it had left the bowler’s hand,
clean out of the grounds, ‘Oh,
I am sorry!’ said Sam. Til go
and look for it myself.’
“ ‘You stay where you are,’
said the bowler, grinding his
teeth,
“From force of habit, Sam
began calling out where he was
going to send the balls, and
after a. few overs the bowler was
taken off, slightly hysterical.
“Sam asked if he could bowl.
The captain was too shaken to
say anything, and Sam, who was
full of goodwill, and saw nothing
strange in what was happening,
began to bowl. As though
hypnotised, the players went in
one after another. They were
all out in two overs from Sam,
with a ball to spare.
“Sam, whose knowledge of the
rules of the game was vague,
asked if there were any more.
“The captain, a man dis-
tinguished for his humanity,
hurried him off the field, and,
taking him to an obscure hotel,
obtained a promise from him to
stay there for three days and
not to show himself near the
fields.
“AS you will easily compre-
hend, the captain was in a
quandary. When he met the
Australian captain he confided
in him. The Australian thought
it was a joke at first. Afterwards
when he saw the South African
was in earnest he became sus-
picious and scornful. ‘Have him
in your team,’ he said.
“‘But don’t you see what it
would do to the tour? Not to
mention cricket as we play it,’
said the South African.
“The Australian intimated
that the way Australians played
cricket was different, but he
agreed to test Sam out. The
South African insisted on
secrecy; and the next day a
party of cars set out for a lonely
pan in the veld where a passable
pitch had been hastily prepared.
“Well, the Australians did
do better than the South
Africans. Their captain sent in
the others first, for he wanted to
observe Sam. By the time the
eighth wicket was down he was
convinced that nothing but an
act of God could stop Sam
bowling a man. When he went
in, next, he simply closed his
eyes and swiped blindly as Sam
delivered the ball. He scored
sixteen in three hits and then
Sam saw what was happening,
let go the ball a bit late and
got him at the end of his swipe.
“Sam beat the Australians’
score in one over and declared.
They showed no desire to go in
again. He said it was all right
with him. He said he had
enjoyed himself and hoped to
play them again some day.
i\ /HEN Sam’s body was
■ V found next day it was
not mutilated except for the
blows that had caused death. I
think this should be remembered
whenever there is a tendency m
criticise Australians. y to
It was naturally impossible to
allow a team of visiting s «o rt ;
men to be dragged into at
ike that .publicly. Themajk 8
, wh ° Prided at the i„S
ha 4*? conflded-in discrwtlv
and he brought in a verdict of
accidental death. Later
the full facts became
him, he was greatly put out, and
said it he had known everything
at the time he would have
ve?d?ct m entirdy differen '
“However, you will under-
stand that, as Bill is aware of thp
facts about Sam. he has refused
to play any more cricket.”
After a silence somebody
asked; What verdict was it the
magistrate said he would have
he had known the full
“Suiqide,” said Mr. Todd,


Available in
magnifications :
x 26, 8 x 30, 8 x
Field Glasses (imp.)
“Faliez” France
A new draft of field glasses has been imported
to Proud’s Optical Department, First Floor.
By “Faliez”, out of France, they’re bred to
give a longer life of service in all sporting
fields. Lenses are bloomed, i-bloomed or clear.
Now available in three magnifications: 8 x 26,
8 x 30 and 8 x 32. Complete in a neat
leather case with detachable lanyard. Prices
range from £l2/10/- to £lB/10/-*,
• Also up for inspection at Proud’s Optical
Department is a range of field glasses which
includes other world-famous names. All are in
a full range of magnifications and prices.
Fronds
s
Proud?s Limited, Corner of King and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
If you hold
4% Commonwealth Securities
issued in August, 1931, and
maturing on August 15, 1950,
or 3f % Commonwealth Securi-
ties issued in March, 1940, and
maturing on August 15,
1950-56
TO YOX7
Tuesday , August Ist ,
the Tenth
Security Loan opens
. . . giving you the opportunity to convert your
maturing Securities and thereby prevent inter-
ruption to the interest they earn. Read the
column on the right of this announcement for
full information about the Tenth Security Loan
and the method of converting your maturing
holdings.
CONVERT
your maturing Securities into the
TENTH SECURITY
LOAN
For cash investment also . New cash
will be accepted in the Tenth Security Loan.
To secure part of the available issue, early
application is advisable. You can make an
advance subscription at once.
ALL YOU WANT
TO KNOW ABOUT
CONVERSION
OF MATURING
COMMONWEALTH
SECURITIES
These are the Issues which
mature on 15th August, 1950:
(1) 3i% Bonds and Inscribed
Stock issued in March, 1940. (It
should be specially noted that
the maturity date shown on
these Securities is 15th August,
1950-56, but the Treasurer has
exercised his option to redeem
these Securities on 15th August,
1950, and they are now due for
redemption or conversion on
that date.)
(2) 4% Bonds and Inscribed
Stock issued in August, 1931,
and maturing in August, 1950.
WHAT TO DO
If you have lodged with your
bank for safe custody more than
£lO worth of any of the Securi-
ties listed above, you should
have received a conversion
application form. If you have
not received such a form, check
the maturity dates of your
Securities in one of the follow-
ing ways:
1. If your Bonds are in your
possession: Look at them at
once and compare the rates and
maturity dates printed at the
top with those indicated above.
2. If you lodged your Bonds
with your bank for safe-keeping:
Most banks issue a receipt or
acknowledgment for Bonds left
with them for safe custody. If
you hold any such receipts,
compare the maturity dates
with those listed above.
3. If you cannot discover
maturity dates: Go to your bank
to-day and ask whether any of
the Securities listed above are
held on your behalf,
HOW TO CONVERT
If you find that your Securities
are about to mature ask your
bank or stockbroker for an
application form for conversion
into the Tenth Security Loan.
Fill in one form for each series
of Bonds or Stock maturing
(new 2% Securities are for
£l,OOO and multiples only) and
hand it back. That’s all. You
will then possess Tenth Security
Loan Bonds or Inscribed Stock
of the same value as your
maturing Securities and interest
on your Securities will continue.
CASH
INVESTMENT
TOO
As well as those with maturing
Securities to convert, everyone
may buy Bonds (£lO, £5O, £lOO,
£5OO or £1,000) or Inscribed
Stock through any Bank,
Savings Bank or Stockbroker.
Interest is payable each six
months at 3i% per annum for
11-14 years or at 2% per annum
for three years. (Investment in
2% Securities must be for £l,OOO
and multiples thereof.)
Repayment in full at maturity
is guaranteed by the Common-
wealth. There’s no better place
for your savings. Invest at once.
Make an advance subscription
now.
PiOSLI.tl3.7O
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Copy of Henry Lawson’s poem
“Cromwell.” —4883.
To buy instruction-book for old
Willcox and Gibbs sewing-machine.—
4882.
American reader wants copy of
The Lore of the Lyrebird by Ambrose
Pratt. (Reply direct to D. Stout, 935
Madison-avenue, New York 21, N.Y.,
U.S.A.)
Does Anybody Know?
Origin of the town Dobbyn (Q.)?—
4879. . , ,
Meaning of aboriginal place-name
“Cullinlaringo” ? —4880.
Identity of poet who signed his
work “Curlew” and who wrote
“Boko,” “Bill’s Resolve,” “When
You Tighten Up Your Belt” and
other poems in The Bulletin during
the early ’nineties? —4881.
Information Sought.
Can sugar be made from sugar-
cane in the home?
It is not practicable to produce a
refined or nearly-refined sugar from
sugar-cane juice by any home-method.
Manufacture of sugar is a highly-
involved process, and even the most
up-to-date sugar mills in Australia
do not turn out a refined product,
the operation of refining being carried
out separately at refineries situated
in the various capital cities. In cer-
tain parts of the world a crude pro-
duct is turned out for native con-
sumption, such as the gur in India,
but this is highly impure, and subject
to decomposition.
* * * *
Details of tackle used by surf fisher-
men on the N.S.W. coast ?
An 8ft. rod, a free-running reel,
about 200 yards of No. 6 or No. 8
gut line, a flat sinker attached to end
of line, 2oz. to 4oz., according to the
state of the surf (the lighter sinker
for the light surf). For whiting,
beach-worms are mostly used for
bait; for bream, prawns and a beach
shellfish, known as pipi; for larger
fish, such as jewfish, small fish, such
as a young tailer, are usually em-
ployed.
♦ * * *
Details about William Buckley, who
lived with the blacks ?
He was born at Macclesfield, Eng-
land, in 1780, and at an early age
enlisted in the army. For an act of
mutiny he was transported to Aus-
tralia in H.M.S. Calcutta with the
convict party which landed at Port
Phillip under Collins in 1803. Buckley
and two other convicts escaped into
the bush, taking only a gun and a
few cooking vessels. His two com-
panions perished, and Buckley fell in
with a party of blacks. He lived with
them, being well cared for and learn-
ing the language, until discovered by
Batman, the founder of Melbourne,
in 1835, when he acted as interpreter
between the settlers and his friends
the natives. He was given a free
pardon and a small pension, and
settled in Flobart, where he died
February 2, 1856.
* * * *
Who wrote the words and music of
“Rule Britannia'’ ?
The words are by James Thomson
(altered by Mallet); the music,
ascribed to Dr. Arne, is said by
Schodcher (in his life of Handel) to
have been taken from an air in
Handel’s “Occasional Oratorio,” com-
posed in 1746, but the song and
music were really printed in Dr,
Arne’s masque “Alfred” in 1740.
* * * *
During a cricket match the ball was
hit and lost. The batsman had run
seven when the fieldsman called “lost
ball .” How many runs should be
allowed ?
Seven runs must be credited to
the batsman. Law 34 states: “If a
ball in play cannot be found or re-
covered any fieldsman may call ‘Lost
ball,’ when the ball shall be ‘dead’;
six runs shall be added to the score,
but if more than six runs have been
run before ‘lost ball’ has been called,
as many runs as have been run shall
be scored.” It is not the duty of
the umpire to call “lost ball”; that
can only be done by a fieldsman.
* * * *
What was the Kellogg-Briand pact ?
A treaty signed in. 1928 by 15
nations in an attempt to outlaw war.
Another 45 nations agreed to the
provision in Article 1, that the coli-
tracting parties of the treaty “con-
demn recourse to war for the solu-
tion of international controversies
and renounce it as an instrument of
national policy in their relations with
one another.”
* * * *
On what ruling did N.S.W. Gover-
nor Sir Philip Game rely when he
dismissed the Lang Government in
1932 without reference to higher
authority ?
Sir Michael Hicks-Beach, then Sec-
retary for the Colonies, laid it down
clearly in a communication to the
Governor-General of Canada in 1879
that the Governor of any British
colony “has an unquestionable con-
stitutional right to dismiss his Minis-
ters if from any cause he feels it
incumbent upon himself to do so.”
That doctrine was not challenged
while N.S.W. was a colony, and there
has been no alteration of the State’s
Constitution specifically removing the
implied power.
Brief Answers.
C.V.R.: It was announced last year
by the Swedish Academy of Literature
that the Nobel Literature Prize for
1949 would not be awarded, owing
to the fact that none of the candi-
dates considered had received the
necessary absolute majority in the
adjudicating committee. Among the
leading candidates, it was stated, were
Winston Churchill, Georges Duhamel
(the French novelist) and Bemedetto
Croce (the Italian philosopher)
M.LJ.; Australian headquarters of
Toe H is at Selbourne Chambers, 40
Pirie-street, Adelaide.... G.P.: The
English-Speaking Union was founded
in 1918 ? and is an attempt, non-
sectarian, non-political, non-partisan,
to promote good-fellowship between
the British and American people.
Address of the N.S.W. branch is
Box 1919, G.P.0., Sydney....V.M.:
In table tennis the table is 2ft. 6in.
high, 9ft. long and sft. wide, with a
net 6in. high R.8.A.: V. A.
Waltham rode a cycle from Sydney
to Fremantle in October, 1927, in 26
days 3hr. Bmin S.S.: The Aus-
tralian record crowd for football is
96,834. They paid £6778 to see
Carlton beat Collingwood on the
Melbourne Cricket Ground in the
grand final of 1938. The record Aus-
tralian cricket crowd is held also by
Melbourne. The third Test at Mel-
bourne, on January 4, 1937, drew a
crowd of 87,798 E.P.A.: Winning
sequences by racehorses are: Gloam-
ing, 19 wins; Desert Gold, 18; Ajax,
18 ; Carbine, 15; Bernborough, 15;
Phar Lap, 14; Limerick, 13; Fire-
stick, 12; Eurythmic, 11; Beaulivre,
11; Defaulter, 10; Kindergarten, 10.
R.S.: A “concordat” is an agree-
ment between Church and State,
especially between the Roman See
and a secular government relative to
matters that concern both. One of
the most famous of such agreements
was that made in 1801 between
Napoleon and Pius VII C.0’8.:
Henry VIII said of Anne of Cleves,
his fourth wife, on the day after
first meeting her at Rochester, that
she was “no better than a Flanders
mare.” He married and divorced her
in 1540... .C.L.K.: The established
policy in N.S.W. has been to keep
the railways under State control, and,
with the exception of short lines con-
necting coal- and other mines with the
main railways, there are only 85
miles of private lines open for
general traffic D.N.: A commer-
cial pilot’s licence authorises the
holder to pilot an aircraft in com-
mercial service other than regular
transport; a senior commercial pilot
has the same authority and, in addi-
tion, may pilot aircraft of more than
12,5001 b. gross weight on international
operations.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
W.C.: No sleeping-berth for “The
Domain Dosser” in our columns
T.H.S.: “Time, Gentlemen, Time,”
merely made us • thirsty M.T.:
Take better aim G.T.: Too much
talk and too little action G.F.:
If that is what you are compelled to
write “after a night out with the
boys,” you had better sign the pledge.
H.B.; According to our Religious
Editor you know little about sly-grog
shops and less about two-up schools.
Bellerive: They’d earn a place
on any bill:
C.S.: Romance between mis-
understood husband and the girl-next-
door is somewhat off our beat
H.S.: Your addiction to adjectives
beginning with the first letter of the
alphabet makes curious reading
W.W.F.: O. Henry got in ahead of
you A.C.8.: Nothing more than
a schoolboy detective-yarn T.C.:
Not a bad guide-book description of
the locality, but we are wanting more
than that J. 8.: Hie wholesale
slaughter of troublesome characters
towards the end condemns the story.
The text for that sermon
should read: “Too many pals, too
many parties” C.G.: “I am not
at all satisfied with this effort.”
Neither were we C.M.J.: “How
can I make my writings more accept-
able to editors?” Well, for a start,
you might buy a new typewriter-
ribbon N-B.: Old Tom will have
to take his rum-bottle elsewhere
R.C.C.: Throws new light on bush
funerals... .K.A.: It straggles behind
the mob... .A.H.T.: “Murder in the
Jury Room” more suited for a news-
paper that relishes plenty of gore
D.F.: That’s not the way to serve
up a humorous short story
J.P.McA.: We’re not so hard-pressed
for yarns that we need to go to our
back files for plots G.G.F.:
“Lancelot the Larrikin” is an uncon-
vincing character HJ.W.: They
all missed the target.
Uncanny dare-devils
As quick as cats
Were the Lentona,
The Chinese acrobats.
Head to head they’d
Balance with skill;
Their wonderful feats
The patrons did thrill.
Swift, daring and clever,
They were a nightly draw
At Rickard’s show
In days of yore.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4»d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Asia and Us
I can hardly credit a Gallup Poll’s
finding that a majority of Australians
favor a watering-down of our White Aus-
tralia policy. Such a vote must react
on our diplomatic policy—Asian Govern-
ments will regard it as an index to
popular feeling in Australia, and any
Government reluctance to implement this
feeling will be fought, by the Asians, as
political prejudice.
The vote is also another triumph for
the Reds and extreme Leftist groups in
Australia in that public support is given
to a motion for quota immigration moved
at the recent A.L.P. conference in Mel-
bourne, which the Reds enthusiastically
supported.
There is also little doubt that the
moderates among the Gallup Poll voters
were influenced by the emotions aroused
by Calwell’s strong-arm action last year
in rigorously applying the law to Asian
war-refugees.
Generally, the Australian is kindly dis-
posed to Asian peoples. Largely because
they have had little contact with Asians
in their own country, and have no know-
ledge of Asian ways of life, they base
their judgment of Asians on their be-
havior in Australia. They forget that, in
the case of the Indonesians, these Asians
were maintained by the Dutch on Dutch
standards, not Indonesian. The published
statements of disillusioned Australian
girls who married some of these Indo-
nesians and returned with them to Java
surely need no enlargement to emphasise
the difference in the standards of life in
our respective countries.
To be happy here, Asian immigrants
would want to establish little colonies of
their own where they could practise their
own way of life, their own religious
teachings, eat their own food and educate
the children in their own ancestral way.
Failing this, they would have to forget all
the teachings of centuries and adopt ours.
The only experiment of this kind in
Australia hasi been the Chinese one.
Every city in Australia now has its China-
town, playing a small part in our economy,
but never being part of us. These are
tbe descendants of the Chinese resident
in Australia before the immigration laws
were introduced.
In Fiji Hindu labor was brought in on
specifically laid-down conditions. The
result now is that the Hindus greatly
outnumber the Fijians, and the economy
of the island is largely in Hindu hands.
A bitter feud has resulted.
In Singapore Chinese were brought in
for coolie work. It is today a pre-
dominantly Chinese city.
Few Australians know that Siam has
its immigration problem, too. To control
the entry of other Asians into that
country the Siamese Government has
been compelled to introduce restrictive
regulations.
In Burma, also, there is a strong move-
ment to control Indian immigration. In
pre-war years the Indian immigrants
gained control of the Burmese internal
economy, the Burmese found themselves
being squeezed into the little jobs while
their Asian friends became the big busi-
nessmen and financiers.
Australia’s future strength as a nation
depends on the maintenance of a
Western-style economy and way of life.
Any attempt to whittle this down should
be strenuously resisted. We are an easy-
going people, in nature very similar to
the happy-go-lucky Burmese, Siamese
and Fijians. If we allow even restricted
immigration from Asia it must dawn on
us some fine morning that we’ve got a
racial problem on our hands.
From personal observation, I think we
can best help the Asian peoples not by
encouraging them to immigrate to new
lands and adopt strange ways, but by
assisting them to re-create their own
vanished civilisation, their own arts and
crafts, all the colorful ways of living of
which they have every reason to be
proud. I am a supporter of Gandhi in
that. If they followed his teachings and
went back to cottage industry and Asian
ways, and we, of the West, in turn re-
spected their desires and helped them all
we could by opening our markets to their
products, and learned to appreciate, not
ridicule, their way of life, the world
would be a much happier place for all
of us.
It is that feeling of being of no account
that makes the Asian peoples so restive.
For centuries we have impressed them
with our superiority. We began by ex-
ploiting them, but, in later .years, all the
exploiting of the Asian peoples has been
done by Westernised Asians, many of
whom have thoroughly learned the
Western meaning of power, and of the
prestige an individual gains if he works
himself into a position of power and uses
it for his own advantage.— Wilken
(N.S.W.).
Wisecracking Judges
The daily Press loves to have a “per-
sonality” on the Bench —preferably one
who likes his gallery. The Press will even
go so far as to manufacture a gallery for
a judge who displays the slightest in-
clination for it.
A responsible legal organ once said,
apropos a judge who had earned for him-
self the name of “The Bachelor ludge,”
that “The most fortunate judges are those
who, however forceful and able they may
be, have, in the matter of publicity, ‘no
history’; whose wit and humor, however
genuine and original, make no great
appeal to the layman; whose reputation,
however solid and stable, is as nearly as
“Know where I could get a quick one while the wife's in the kitchen ?”
possible purely professional. Nickname
and sociological pronouncements may
often be harmless, but the known
character of the Bench as a whole is, so
far as the public is concerned, best rein
forced by a reasonable ignorance wit]
regard to its occupants.”
It is always a matter of speculation a
to how far the desires of the Press and
the instincts of a judge conspire to the
same end. But it is difficult to believe
that a judge could be made a victim
entirely against his will.— Jake B
(N.S.W.).
Fighting Men
There still persists in many minds the
foolish idea that an Australian, given
gun and a horse, is immediately a super-
man. It’s a silly notion that has persisted
since the Boer War.
People forget that in 1914, and again
in 1939, a very considerable trained
British and Indian Army held the line
while our men trained. We had nine
months’ respite in both cases. If war
should come again there will be no train-
ing period, for nothing now stands be-
tween Australia and Suez.
Australians don’t seem to realise, even
after two costly wars, that modern war
is a trade and a profession, both demand-
ing high training. You can’t take an
executive from a chain-store and give him
officer or n.c.o, status and call him an
officer just after war breaks out.
Nor is personal bravery likely to make
up for lack of training. War today de-
mands trained brains, disciplined profes-
sional officers and n.c.os. and tradesmen
to handle all the implements and
organised bases and workshops to keep
the fighting men in the line.
And of the fighting men, upon whom
ultimate success or failure depends, only
the best can succeed. They must be
trained like athletes, have specialist know-
ledge of their special branch, and be well
and ably and cunningly led.
Australians abroad have seen the Horse
Gunners, the 4th Indian Division and
other British regulars, and they still
admire their efficiency. But few seem to
realise that those officers and men who
fought so well, who were so tradesman-
like, and who avoided so many casualties
by their knowledge, while displaying
bravery that makes the mind reel, were
just a cross-section of the men of their,
country, the difference being they were
trained in the science of war.
If Australians think they can get away
with training for the defence of their
country by depending upon a few
volunteers attending drill-halls, upon
brighter uniforms or any other appeal,
they’re just wasting time.
We should recruit (compulsorily if
necessary) at least the officer and n.c.o.
nucleus of five divisions. Send some
immediately to Korea to learn their re-
action under fire. Send others all over
the world to mingle with British and
Americans, South Africans, Canadians
and Indians so they can learn from each
other. In the interim, have at least three
divisions undergoing two years’ training
in Australia.
The cost in lives and money will be
less in the long run.—s G.R. (Vic.).
Social Services
Maybe, as “Cunedda” thinks (B.
5/7/’5O), there are more than a few
neglected children in Australia, but he
should keep in mind that I was answer-
ing a previous letter which cited the
existence of neglected children as an
argument against social services.
I maintain that social services are
worth while in spite of some abuse. Those
people with children who before social
services existed neglected them for rea-
sons other than lack of money would
neglect them in any circumstances; but
those whose children were poorly-fed
and -clothed simply because of too small
an income can now use child-endow-
ment to give them better food and
warmer clothes. Surely it would be
wrong to penalise these youngsters be-
cause some misguided people spend their
endowment money on beer.
Child-endowment is only one of the
social services. Men and women who
just could not afford to go to hospital
can now do so without having financial
worries as well as the worry of an ill-
ness; and the drive against t.b. has a
much better chance of success now that
an adequate allowance is to be paid to
sufferers undergoing treatment.
I did visit every Australian capital not
so long ago, and I saw very few children
who appeared to be neglected. As for
England, I’ve never been there, but I’ve
read many reports claiming that, in
spite of years of war and rationing, the
children of England have never before
enjoyed better health. Taswegian
(Tas.).
In the old days votes were bought in
the open market with free beer and cigars
at the personal expense of the political
candidate. Nowadays they are bought in
the blackmarket at enhanced prices sub-
sidised by the public purse.
The baby bonus is only a glorified
form of baby-kissing. It has some virtue
in necessitous cases, but its true nature
is disclosed when it is granted to all and
sundry without a means test. Free medi-
cine has replaced free beer. It would be
praiseworthy if dispensed only to the poor
and needy, but when it is shouted for
the crowd it has no more charitable senti-
ment than a monetary bribe for popu-
larity.
The true nature of such services is
shown when the servitors serve them-
selves to motor-cars, increased salaries
and generous pensions while shedding
crocodile-tears over the penurv
proletariat. No particular party can * the
af th ® blame > for when one i s caJ arry
the other continues to enjoy all ° ut
o f office plucked by its predecessor
When we see one lot of ni -
philanthropists renouncing thn ltlCal
grabbed by the other lot we will f erks
that its heart is pure.—JocK W. (S A)° W
Blood Donors 4
Yes, everybody should invest
blood-bank (B. 21/6/ ’5O) but a
is very necessary on the hospitalSi?
the service. ena of
My blood-donor’s book proves tu , T
donated 5350 c.cs. of blood 1 - vet 1
any other person, received one bin
transfusion in any hospital ward excei
mg a public one, an item on the ar? '
would read: “Blood transfusion
protest would be countered with th. •
formation that the charge is not i Q ‘
actual blood but for the preparation °E
t. Anyone who points out that h?
blood is prepared and delivered Ladv
for use at no cost to the hosnitai Y
generally told that patients are Ted to
pay for the doctor’s services in adminil
termg the blood serum That?n
the fact that a transfusion can be ad
ministered by any competent nurse
That is all from personal experience
It happened, and is still happening Mor P
over, nothing is being done to stamn out
what is nothing else but an imposition
on the Red Cross and blood-donors A
genuine blood-donor gives blood for’onn
purpose—to save human life. He
entitled to demand that blood given frp»
should be preserved as a free service to
humanity. The only obligation is a moral
one to friends or relations of the patient-
repay the blood to the blood-bank
H. C. Baker (N.S.W.).
Indian Coal
o£ all « ual >h«
(B. 5/7/ 50). Having once, literally for
my sins, made a few voyages in the local
Indian coal trade, X can claim some
acquaintance with the stuff.
At the upper end of the scale there was
a coal that resembled the best anthracite.
It was hard, bright and with very little
dust. This paragon among coals was
supplied to the pretty little vessels of the
Rangoon mail-service to ensure their
steaming to schedule, no easy feat when
they had the river Hooghly tides to con-
tend with. On coaling-day even a chief
engineer might be observed perched on
a pile of coal like a vulture on a dead
cow, brooding over the treasure. Ribald
persons passing would advise him to
“Give it a coat of green paint, chief;
somebody might pinch a lump.” Where
exactly the stuff was mined I never found
out, but by all accounts it was wonderful
coal.
At the other end of the scale there was
stuff that figured in bills of lading as coal,
but after inspection one felt that the com-
pliment paid it was inordinately high.
Indian coal got rather a bad name
during the war. Units of convoys that
had bunkered in Calcutta or Madras
seemed to make more smoke and to drop
back more than the average when clean-
ing fires at the end of each watch. That,
of course, may have been due to war-time
rqsh on Bengal mining.—Salt Horse Pom
(VteO.
The Woo! Levy
The decision to impose a wool levy on
the 1950-51 clip was not hastily made (B.
5/7/’5O). If a new scheme is to come
into force it should be ready to take over
the staff and organisation of J.O. when
that body ceases to function after June
30, 1951.
Minister for Commerce McEwen has
told woolgrowers that the Government
would not •establish any scheme unless
it were approved by them; also, if no
new plan were in operation by September,
1951, the levy collected would be returned
to the contributors. Collecting the levy
will be a simple job for woolbrokers, who
deducted similar assessments from the
war-time wool cheques^
Woolgrowers have had 18 months to
study the proposed scheme, but few of
the critics seem to know much about it.
Before 1939 we had auction sales with-
out a bottom, and the result was often
disastrous. The new plan would continue
the auction system, but would put a
reserve price on every line, and the new
organisation would bid for lots until they
reach their reserve prices. If the new
scheme kept prices Id. higher over the
whole clip that would mean another
£4,000,000 for growers. It is pure guess-
work for anyone to say how the wool-
market will be in three or four years
time. , .
The deduction will help to level ou
the violent fluctuations in gi aziers’ returns
and save them paying so much taxation.
—Graz (N.S.W.).


TALKIES
N. S. Wales Flood Films.
Star items in local newsreels these
last few days have been documentaries
on the N. S. Wales coastal floods. The
one current in Sydney last week took the
three big centres of Grafton, Maitland
and Kempsey, and with the aid of favor-
able light and splendid sense of camera—
if there is such a term —the Cinesound
people achieved pictorial drama.
Australian movie-goers have watched
pictures of floods in foreign parts and
been moved in that detached way one is
moved by hearing of something that has
happened to somebody else. The N. S.
Wales flood pictures—especially when
viewed by Sydney people, who themselves
have been enduring torrents of ram for
weeks —are of places known to man y , and
the dreadful havoc of the waters hits
home with a visual puifch.
Homes sunk to their roof-tops, shops
washed askew, railway bridges tom apart,
cattle standing to their bellies and tarv-
ing in a sea of water, canyons torn from
fields that once carried rich crops of
maize and vegetables, people (moving
about in the mud and debris of broken
homes trying to fish some hattereo pos-
session from the wreckage—all tl i and
more —with aerial shots of the spread-
ing waters, hardly need the spoken com-
mentary to tell the story.
The commentary itself is so unobtrusive
and yet so compelling that you might he
walking about on the scene liste ng to
some local chap telling you all about it.
Here and there is a human touch where
some victim of the disaster is prevailed
upon to say a word; usually it*.is brief,
and the speaker suggests that, bad as his
case is, it is nothing compared with that
of others.
On the purely technical side the flood
pictures are as good as anything of their
kind ever made. The editing has been
superb, and there is none of that over-
laying of sentiment and blaring ; about
heroism which usually accompanies over-
seas films of this natdre. The pity of it
is that it took so much loss and! heart-
break to make so good a picture.
"The Big Lift."
Made in Berlin by Twentieth Century
Fox with the co-operation of the Ameri-
can Air Force, everything a out this
film —first and foremost the air lift itself
which beat the Russian bloc 1 ade, and
then the life the Berliners lead inder the
dual occupation—rings with at henticity.
The aerial photos of the big ransports
maintaining their three-minuh schedule
day and night, and feeling fin ir way in
by radar in thick fog, to feet and fuel
the beleaguered city, their sha'' mg of the
roof-tops to touch-down on tl e extreme
ends of Tempelhof runways, ; re superb.
The ground photography t; kes in a
veritable Cook’s tour of the almost in-
describable ruins—these constitute the
best photographic evidence yet put for-
ward of the terrible havoc wrought by
the Western allies during the war.
The story is simple and coldly feasible
and—strangely for Hollywood, this—
eschews all false sentimentalism. No con-
cession is made in the denouement to the
happy-clinch fetish. Even the disillusion-
ment which is the logical finale is done
with restraint.
The two chief characters are well con-
ceived: Sergeant Paul Douglas, tough,
hard-bitten, cynical, hating all Germans,
including even the blonde fraulein with
whom he philanders; Sergeant Mont-
gomery Clift, victim of the undoubted
charm and of the determination of a
young frau (played with beautiful natural-
ness by Cornell Borchers) to contract a
bigamous marriage and so get to America
to join up again with her ex-S.S. husband.
Interwoven is the peculiar thread of
life as lived by Berliners under the
shadow of the Russians, whose zone-
border intransigence is naturally given an
airing, with overall the blackmarket which
is almost as involuntary a feature of
life as breathing. The whole is salted
Tm
“And remember, this is Nature's own rernedy."
with rich American banter, with one
classifc piece of comedy when the tough
sergeant tries to explain (on request) the
workings of Democracy to his girl-friend.
Except the five principals (the fifth is
a German actor who plays the role of a
Berliner who cheerfully admits that he
is given extra rations by the Russians to
spy on the air-lift for them and who
fakes his figures because, the Russians
being such practised liars themselves, they
wouldn’t believe factual figures) the cast
consists of American servicemen and Ger-
man civilians.
For the taint-hearted who see in the
present Korean position an Oriental
eclipse of American power, the film,
which gives a glimpse of the genius of
organisation which made the Berlin air-
lift such a success, will come as a tonic.
There is only one false note struck: the
impression is given that the big lift was
an all-American affair. The Lancasters
are conveniently forgotten. (Sydney May-
fair.)
"We Were Strangers."
John Huston, son of that admirable
actor, Walter Huston, who died recently,
looks like establishing himself as firmly
and eminently as a director as his father
did as an actor. In this Columbia offer-
ing at Sydney Victory he shows the same
sharp observation of human behavior and
character as he did in “The Treasure of
Sierra Madre” and “Key Largo,” and
demonstrates again how it can be applied
to give characters a living intensity that
carries a film forward more naturally
and forcefully than the mechanics of a
narrative could ever do.
The film has to do with the efforts of
Cuban revolutionaries to rid their coun-
try of a tyrannical Government, their
scheme being to tunnel under a cemetery
and plant a bomb under the family vault
of a leading politician, the politician then
to be assassinated and the bomb exploded
when the rest of the Government attends
his State funeral. Melodramatic though
it sounds, the whole business is given an
almost startling realism mainly because
of Huston’s control of the story, atmos-
phere and characters, but also because of
some unexpectedly good acting from most
of the cast.
A good performance is not alto-
gether unexpected from Pedro Armen-
dariz as a sinister member of the political
secret police, but one cannot help re-
membering the beautiful, sensitive artistry
of his work in such films as “Portrait of
Maria” in the days before Hollywood
“discovered” him. John Garfield, as the
American who shoulders the cause of the
revolutionaries, fits his rough hard per-
sonality into the role very well, and
Jennifer Jones, as the smouldering Cuban
girl, turns in as nice a stretch of acting
as she has offered for a long time.
Gilbert Roland and Ramon Novarro
both figure in the piece and give such
excellent performances that one wonders
how many other equally capable old-
timers are eating their heads off in the
Hollywood stable.
"Key to the City."
When the celebrated American passion
for holding conventions runs into con-
fluence with the expectancy by voters that
(heir mayors shall regard tearing around
their cities on tire-wagons and dumping
aldermanic rivals in fishponds as simple
civic dignity, a film built upon it could
reasonably be expected to have horrific
possibilities. But, mainly because of
slick direction and the maintenance of
farce at top pace, plus smooth perform-
ances by Clark Gable and Loretta Young
as two mayoral delegates who have a
penchant for being where they shouldn’t
bo at the wrong time, this M.-G.-M.
item, at Sydney St. James, turns out to
be a fair-quality comedy.
Some shrewdly-judged cut-ins by two
veterans in character stuff, Frank Morgan
and Lewis Stone, give considerable sup-
port to the piece.
The comedy is kept throughout at the
haywire level, and the dialogue, if it
doesn’t exactly coruscate, gets by.
Does Mr. Gable get the opportunity
to exercise his biceps on a large individual
who dares to offer the honest fellow a
bribe to put the O.K. to a phony build-
ing project? Say! Are you plumb loco?
Mr. Gable is even allowed to limber up
for that task by tearing a telephone-
book in half.
John Garfield appears in another
current offering Twentieth Century
Fox’s “Under My Skin,” at Sydney
Esquire, a film version of the Hemingway
short story about a crooked jockey with
a conscience. While the conscience doesn’t
worry him very much the film makes
fairly brisk pace, but the going turns very
sticky when the reform sets in—mainly
because of his hero-worshipping young
son and the attentions of a Parisian night-
club singer, played by Micheline Prelle.
Garfield does this sort of thing in his
sleep, the Prelie is decidedly easy to
watch, and the French setting provides a
pleasantly fresh background,
* * * ♦
M.-G.-M.’s “The Big Hangover” had a
commendably brief run at Sydney St.
James and Minerva before going on the
rounds to make room for “Key to the
City,” Hie hangover, owned by Van John-
son, stems from the fact that, during the
war, he was almost drowned in the con-
tents of a French cellar and developed, as
a result, an allergy to all forms of alcohol
Possibly because of the tragic implica-
tions of such a situation the filmsmiths
don’t succeed in making much of a
comedy out of it; in fact, once the
original idea is disposed of the humor
thins out gainfully and makes way for
a good deal of heavy moralising which
ends up with Mr. Johnson, a brilliant law
student, making the noble choice of be-
ing a poor-but-honest public servant in-
stead of a wealthy hireling of a shady
legal firm. Elizabeth Taylor, Fay Holden,
Leon Ames and Gene Lockhart are in it.
% % s{s Jfc
“My Foolish Heart” (R.K.0., at Sydney
Century): Sad tale of Susan Hayward
lapping up the grog. The reflections
which keep her nose in the glass are
those of the young airman whom she
loved a little too willingly and who was
killed before he could return and marry
her' and give the cheild a name. She
marries an old boy-friend and makes his
life miserable until soul, intelligence or
what-you-will shows her the light.
Directed by Mark Robson, and a con-
siderable come-down after his “Cham-
pion” and “Home of the Brave.”
* * ♦ *
“Tokyo Joe” (Columbia, at Sydney
State): Humphrey Bogart, as an Ameri-
can ex-pilot, returns to Tokyo, finds the
wife he had believed dead married to
someone else and gets mixed up with
some Jap. racketeers. He unraixes it
with his customary lack of any expres-
sion whatever,.. .“Nancy Goes to Rio”
(M.-G.-M., at Sydney Liberty): Arm©
Sothern is the actress and Jane Powell
her daughter; they both want the same
role in the new play and they both want
the same man; it’s in technicolor, set in
Rio, has some unremembered ditties and
is supported—in fact, almost held up—by
Carmen Miranda and Louis Calhem.
“THE BULLETIN”
CROSSWORD No. 79
Across.
I—Such1 —Such apparel is to be about a
pulsation. (8)
s—Arab point of a capital Chaldean
face. (6)
9 Without curb, inquietude fell in
drops from heaven. (12)
10— Tongue of the seer. (4)
11 — Writers find a sick doctor in
some trembles, (5-7)
13 — Bird hidden by the legate. (6)
14 — Material falsehoods in the
responses. (7)
17— Scottish river. (3)
18— Cad comes to tea with part of a
pig- (7)
19— Cricketer with a half-century
getting beef by weight. (6)
21 —Scamp or pilot (anagram). (12)
23 — This used to be handy for getting
things shipshape, although in a
daze. (4)
24 High-born article by the Rhode
Island saint to duck the coun-
cillor with a muscular twitch. (12)
25 — Some people would like to do
this to their in-laws. (6)
26 A strike upset a weathercock
protection for a ship. (8)
Down.
1 — The most abrupt are in the con-
veyance search. (9)
2 Booth of the sailor monarch not
rising. (10)
3 Springy about the quiet I inter-
rupt in the middle. (9)
4 More scantily clothed pianist of
world renown who added a final
“E” for his recent Australian
tour. (5)
6 Quite a lot of poetry ciphers. (5)
7 Name women only. (5)
8 — Is upset by 50 extremely argent.
(7)
12 —Worn by a catcher and a double
river. (5-5)
15— Support at a rising melody for
the country. (3, 6)
16 — The vehicle selected for Daisy’s
honeymoon? (4, 5)
17 — Threefold trial is most common-
place. (7)
20 — Vehicle to leave the contents of
the hold. (5)
21 — Piano peer is a gem. (5)
22 European river on a town in
India. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 78


I
V
w
mmmik
%
m}
Wllll'm
fa
f£v*% - &
vj*?*
f.
JE3T
mm.
k
you Build
or buy a home
consult Tht
MIX
The M.L.C. can offer you finance on most
reasonable terms. By means of Life Assurance
your debt is covered should you die during
the term of the loan. Full information is
|
freely available from any M.L.C. Office or
Representative.
MLC
The MUTUAL LIFE and ClTlZENS’Assurance Co. Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Martin Place and Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE:
Collins and Elizabeth
Streets.
BRISBANE:
Commercial House,
Queen and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE:
Savings Bank Building,
101 King William Street.
PERTH:
1 79a St. George’s
[T errace.
HOBART:
M.L.C. Building,
Liverpool & Murray Sts.,
Hobart.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.)s
M.L.C. Building. Lambton
Quay.
