

The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 71—No. 3652
Wednesday, February 8, 1950
)//u. - /'Frice 6d. ; ,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
TjROnWICH SPA, situated on th
Saiwarpe, a small tributary of the
Severn, seven miles from Worcester, is
one of the oldest towns in England. It
occupies the site upon which the Romans
built a settlement when they discovered
the value of its natural springs and
established the salt-making industry there
which has brought prosperity to the
town for more than two thousand years.
Many Roman relics, including fragments
of pottery, pavements and coins, have
been found in Droitwich and are now
preserved in the museum. During the
Roman occupation the town was known
as Salinae. In Anglo-Saxon times, how-
ever, the town was named Wic, meaning
salt spring. The prefix “Droit” was
awarded in 1215 by King John to denote
that the town was legalised for the manu-
facture of salt. Domesday Book (1086)
recorded the number of saltpans in the
town and the amount of wood used in
the furnaces for the manufacture of
salt.
The curative properties of the brine
baths were discovered by accident in
1832, when a cholera epidemic swept
through the district. One of the cholera
patients was prescribed a hot bath, and
hot brine from the salt works was used.
The marked improvement in his health
led the doctor to order hot brine baths
for his other patients, and the death rate
rapidly dropped. The fame of the brine
baths thus established, they were opened
as Royal Baths in 1836. Since then
Droitwich has grown more and more im-
portant as a spa, and patients journey
trorn all parts of the world to “take the
cure. The present Brine Baths estab-
lishment is the largest in Europe,
The brine originally came to the sur-
face m natural springs, but it is now
Pumped up from a depth of two hundred
e et, where it is believed to exist in a
a e formed by Subterranean streams
passing over a bed of rock salt. Its
natural temperature is 45 °F. and its
density (2| pounds of salt to the gallon)
out ten times the strength of sea water,
a greater density than the famous salt
Jvater of the Dead Sea.
DROITWICH SPA; MECCA OF THE WORLD'S HEALTH SEEKERS
GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


Learn
Sfiv
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send,' without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
My Name
My Address
S-8.150 .AGE
The Red Page
FULL FATHOM FIVE.
James Taylor’s Spoils from the Sea
(Australasian Publishing Co.) deals with
“The Life and Adventures of Diver J. E.
Johnstone,” Whom many readers will re-
member from Mr, Taylor’s Gold from
the Sea.
Working with his brother, William
Johnstone, of the R.A.N., and with
Captain J. P. Williams and Captain J. W.
Herd, John Johnstone was chief diver
aboard the Claymore in the expedition
which recovered gold worth £2,379,000
from the sunken Niagara. Mr. Taylor
says, incidentally, that Johnstone has
notions about recovering the £151,000-
worth of gold still remaining in or about
the Niagara; as also, according to a
Bulletin personal paragraph, has
William Johnstone. And if the John-
stones are about to dive into the Tasman
again, Mr. Taylor is probably preparing
to dive into another book.
The Niagara story is retold in Spoils
from the Sea, but that is only one chapter
among a score equally fascinating. John-
stone is first encountered as a diver during
the 1914 war when he is undergoing his
training in the R.N. Salvage Section at
Invergorden and has the gruesome task
of recovering the bodies of two ratings
drowned in a pinnace. He is told that
one of the bodies will be found standing
upright and, in the murk below, ties a
rope around some upright object which,
when brought to the surface, turns out
to be a horsehair settee.
After the war he works for a salvage
company which has contracted to build
a “cradle” for docking purposes around
the German liner Imperator at Liverpool,
and f&ere is a story about a diver, one of
the scores on the job, who imprisoned
himself for hours behind a barricade of
shoring supports he had erected.
Johnstone’s first Australian jobs—“any
depth, anywhere” was his motto —
present the seamy side of a diver’s life.
He goes down in Squally Cove, in Deal
Island, where there are only muttonbirds
and a lighthousekeeper with a wife and
daughters tod shy to talk to salvage-men,
to retrieve a cargo of copper from the
wrecked Karitane, and the copper is buried
feet-deep under layers of hay, potatoes,
swede turnips and peas which have
suffered a sea-change into something ex-
cessively rich and strange—“into one vast
decaying mess which threw up a sicken-
ing smell, so poisonous that all the fresh
meat aboard the Phil Forbes went bad
within three days.” Having shifted that
lot, with explosives, scoops and the wash
of the tide, and made a nice profit out
of the copper, Johnstone dives into the
mud of Melbourne’s Yarra in pursuit of
12 large cheeses which had been lost over
the side of a coaster —and one prefers to
leave to the imagination (which Mr.
Taylor does not) what the Yarra can
do to 12 large cheeses.
At New Caledonia there is something
more romantic ; or romantic in a prettier
way; a ship whose bones are literally
“of coral made.” This is the Joliette,
which had for many years been obstruct-
ing the harbor at Thio and which the
French authorities, with a sigh for a deed
of necessary vandalism, wish the diver to
destroy:
Ten feet below, in the crystal, shimmer-
ing water, lay a ship carved in coral of
many colors, exquisite to behold. The
toredo worm had devoured every inch of
her decking, but the steel beams, the outer
shell and every other remaining structural
feature were massively encrusted. And in
and out of her, amidst a riot of waving,
multicolored weed, swam fish of startling
tints, like sparks of living fire Wire
ropes showed in tangled coral heaps, just
where they had been coiled in 1909.
Between these two extremes of indus-
trial gloom and coral enchantment the
book continues to move; or, rather, to
bump. For one of the disadvantages of
being a diver is that you are tethered to
the ship above you ; and when the ship
rises with the waves you rise ; and when
the ship comes down again, down you
bump. You may, for instance, be stroll-
ing underwater from Tasmania in the
direction of the mainland, looking for
defects in the cable which, when it crosses
a channel where the fierce tides sweep it
to and fro for distances up to 500 yards,
is apt to fray; and, following this wan-
dering cable, accompanied by your pet
seal, which butts you from behind, you
may find that the Julie Burgess above
you has run into heavy weather. Then
you proceed like this:-
He found himself periodically travelling
at a run. This was so unnerving and
exhausting that he decided, in desperation,
to tie himself to the grapnel with a short
ranging line, thus at least conserving some
of his energy. Not a man in the surface
crew would have cared to share his ordeal,
which was audibly registered over the
telephone by an unending series of groans,
grunts and imprecations. These distressful
noises became positively heartrending when
the Julie Burgess malevolently rose on a
wave, for this meant that Johnstone would
rise with her, sometimes as high as twenty
feet! And, having risen, he would then be
unceremoniously dumped on the bottom.
There are variations on this procedure ;
it cannot be called monotonous. The
cable-bfimping ended with the prospect
of a bump so prodigious—a drop over an
underwater cliff into fathomless depths
where the cable disappeared—that John-
stone refrained from taking it and rose
gratefully up to the surface. And when
he was working on the Niagara he was at
least scraped along the ship’s side before
being dumped again on the sea-floor;
Unknown to him, and to the alarm of
all on board, the Claymore’s bow-mooring
had parted and the ship began to swing
. rapidly away before the wind, jerking the
bell from its perch. The chamber was
dragged for some distance along the clut-
tered boat-deck, missing a pair of davits
by inches, and down the slope of the
Niagara’s side-plating. So fast did it travel
that it bounced clear of the ragged hole
previously seen by Johnstone, and was
flung upside-down into the slime of the
sea-floor.
The war in the Pacific provided some
additional interest. There was the Darwin
raid —of which Mr. Taylor gives a vivid
description—during which Johnstone zig-
zagged about the harbor in a small
American naval vessel, at first just dodg-
ing bomb's and machine-gun bullets, and
afterwards rescuing the crew and a de-
mented Irish terrier from the Admiral
Halstead. The terrier bit Johnstone on
the shoulder. Then there was the salvag-
ing of the Bantam at Oro Bay, and the
air-raid when the natives who were in
charge of the diver’s air-supply prudently
took to the water and left him to suf-
focate.
After recording the admonishing and
correcting of a ship which had tried to
go overland across the Barrier Reef, and
a refreshing return to some really good
mud at the bottom of the Hooghly
River in India, the book ends with
what should be a comparatively
tranquil sort of routine job: the salvaging
of the Wanganella when she struck on the
sharp pinnacles of Barrett’s Reef at the
entrance to Wellington Harbor. But on
his first survey Johnstone got his air-pipe
jammed between the ship’s bottom and a
ledge of the reef, and fifteen feet of it
were squashed flat; and, apart from these
minutes of peril, there is an exciting
drama —so capably does Mr, Taylor
present the diver’s story—in the salvaging
operations themselves: the ship hard and
fast on three ledges of rock, straining
madly with the ebb and flow of the tide,
fantastically torn and crumpled under-
water ; the race to get her off before one
of Wellington’s proverbial storms should
sink her ; the sealing of the flooded com-
partments so that the water could be
forced out by compression and sufficient
buoyancy be given to the forward portion
of the hull to lift it clear of the pinnacles ;
the moment when “to the ominous sound
of grinding steel she was forcibly dragged
from her rocky bed”; and then the
anxious journey to the Aotea wharf with
the ship settling down by the head, and
looking every minute more likely to take
a dive.
The emphasis in Spoils from the Sea is
on Johnstone’s adventures rather than his
life. His character and career are
pleasantly outlined, but the portrait is
not. “in the round.” It is as a “docu-
mentary” rather than a biography that
the book must be approached, and as
such it is admirable. It is a plain, straight-
forward narrative, clear in its descriptions
of technical operations, moving swiftly
from one dramatic incident to another
and set, of course, in a territory which
must stir the imagination of all readers
from the ages of nine to ninety.
THE BYSTANDER.
I am the one who looks the other way.
In any painting you may see me stand
Rapt at the sky, a bird, an angel’s wing,
While others kneel, present the myrrh, re-
ceive
The benediction from the radiant hand.
I hold the horses while the knights dis-
mount
And draw their swords to fight the battle
out,
Or else in dim perspective you may see
My distant figure on the mountain road
When in the plain the hosts are put to
rout.
I am the silly soul who looks too late,
The dullard dreaming, second from the
right.
I hang upon the crowd, but do not mark
(Cap over eyes) the slaughtered Innocents,
Or Icarus, his downward-plunging flight.
Once in a Garden—back view only there;
How well the painter placed me, stroke on
stroke,
Yet scarcely seen among the flowers and
grass—
I heard a voice say “Eat,” and would have
turned—
I often wonder who it was that spoke.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Bushy Yate and Others .
In Western Australia they probably
know very well, who Bushy Yate is ; they
may even know his brother, Warty Yate.
But whether he is known in Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane or Adelaide is another
matter. He is, in fact, a gum-tree; and
that is one reason why everyone should
acquire a copy of Stan Kelly’s Forty A us-
tralian Eucalypts in Color, beautifully
printed by Waite and Bull, Ltd., for
Dymocks.
For many reasons it is highly undesir-
able that Bushy Yate should hide his
light under a bushel any longer. Firstly,
he is an Australian citizen and we should
all know our gum-trees ; secondly, he has
an admirable name, with something rich
and earthy about it—the smack of folk-
lore—and it is by the increased use of
such names that our rustic literature will
acquire the definiteness, the poetry, the
sense of profound intimacy with nature
that is in the prose of Hardy and John
Cowper Powys and the verse of Davies
and Blunden ; thirdly, Bushy Yate is an
extremely handsome tree, with greenish-
yellow flowers so large that a child can
wear the buds on his fingers—hence the
alternative name “Fingerstall Gum”—and
it may be transferred from its native Cape
Leeuwin to decorate a garden or serve
as a windbreak; and lastly Mr. Kelly’s
colorplates are worth looking at in their
own right as pieces of craftsmanship, for
they are invariably attractive in color and
design.
Forty Australian Eucalypts, except that
it is an even more handsome book —
2000 numbered and signed copies have
been printed, in the format which the
same printers have used for the Ure
Smith art publications—is very much like
Thistle Y. Harris’s Wildflowers of Aus-
tralia. If it is open to the same criticism,
that in attempting to cover the whole
continent it is only of limited use to
the nature-lover in any particular region
—neither Bushy nor Warty Yate will be
found lurking in French’s Forest—it has
the same value as a kind of national
advertisement and a general introduction
to the beauties of this much-maligned
country. And Forty Australian Gum-
trees, which carries the recommendations
of P. J. Hurley, “S. M. Herald’s” “Wara-
tah,” and J. H. Willis, botanist of the
South Yarra National Herbarium, has
this additional practical value: that Mr.
Kelly has, in general, selected the types
of flowering gums which can, and should,
be planted in public parks and private
gardens.
The 40 illustrations, besides their pic-
torial charm, have been drawn and
painted with meticulous accuracy, and in
each case the composition manages to
include leaves, stems, buds, flowers and
what the botanists call “fruit” and lesser
mortals “gum-nuts,” so that the reader
who wants simply to learn how to recog-
nise a bangalay, a swamp mahogany, a
Coolgardie rose or an Argyle apple when
he sees one should find this volume in-
valuable. It is the only book known to
the present reviewer which enables you
to track down the different gums with
the absolute certainty with which you can
recognise Thistle Harris’s wildflowers.
•As far as the gardener is concerned,
Mr. Kelly has one unfortunate habit —
perhaps inevitable, seeing that so little
transplanting and cultivation of the
flowering gums has been attempted—of
sometimes failing to specify the precise
districts, or at least climates, where such
an attempt is likely to succeed. He says,
for instance, that the beautiful square-
fruited mallee, with its crimson and orange
flowers and its buds that look like “quaint
and battered old cow-bells,” will make
an attractive garden-shrub in “a suitable
climate” ; and the reader is left to assume,
vaguely, that “a suitable climate” will be
something like that of its native Swan
River and Esperance Bay. But often the
instructions are as precise as one could
reasonably expect: the Coolgardie rose
or rnuttlegar, with flowers up to f OUr
inches in diameter, will grow “in dry i n .
land areas or where the drainage is good ”
but “on the east coast it often fails”
because high humidity softens its stems •
the ooldea or large-fruited mallee is “suit!
able only for districts free from severe
frosts” ; and so on.
A final attraction of the book is Mr,
Kelly’s infectious enthusiasm for the trees
he writes about. He has kept his notes
short and his language is scientific, tem-
pered to the layman’s understanding; but
as well as proclaiming their beauties he
makes his trees alfhost human by follow-
ing the spotted gum’s career till it ends
in paving-blocks on the steeets of Sydney
or by a ringing tribute to the usefulness
and fortitude of the jarrah.
In fact, take it any way you like-
as a piece of. the printers’ art, as an ex-
ample of tree- and flower-portraiture that
is accurate without being lifeless, as a
handbook for the gardener and a guide-
book for the amateur botanist (or, to
use Mr. Hurley’s striking term, the
“eucalyptologist”). Forty Australian
Eucalypts is altogether an excellent pub-
lication.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Tail Is Familiar : Written by Dot
Mendoza, sketches by June Mendoza,
foreword by Peter Mendoza (The National
Press). Biographies and pictures of 14
dogs known by this clan, who claim their
book is not meant for folk who like
dogs “in their place” but for those who
like them anywhere. Error, this, since
any genuine dog-addict will find himself
repeatedly prompted to exclaim “That’s
nothing. I had a black-and-tan setter
once that used t 0....” and then be faced
with mere inanimate print to hear his
story. A more feasible buyer would be
the lost soul who has sighted a pleasing
pup for sale and needs to touch of
psychology to persuade his wife to house
it.
* * * *
The Pathway of the Sun : E. V. Timms
(Angus and Robertson). With 15 books
to his credit, the author slips a fizzer
into the collection. After the shock of
“Western Australia! 1832!” the reader
has an urge to turn to the back and see
if it winds up with “ ‘Yes,’ she said.
‘You and I together, Simon —just you
and I together—walking along the path-
way to the sun.” By heavens it does!
The book has one excellent chapter
describing a convict woman leading a
villainous guard deep into the desert,
keeping just out of sight, never letting
him sleep and finally driving him mao.
Timms rounds that chapter off as a pieo e
of powerful drama. Why, then, did he
sprinkle the rest of the book with inane
young ladies given to exclaiming
“Lawks’a daisy me!”?
* * * *
White Rose Garland : An anthology
Yorkshire dialect verse edited by Wilfr# 1
J. Halliday and Arthur Stanley Urnpw
(Dent). Offers a surprisingly large col-
lection ranging from simple weather-
rhymes such as
Snaw, snaw, coom faster,
White as allyblaster;
Poor owd women pickin’ geese,
Sendin’ t’ feathers daan to Leeds--
to more elaborate compositions in t s
style of Robert Horspool’s “Song 0
Heeam”: ,
Aye, t’ sea’s reel Mae at Heighten, an 1
girt cliffs wheyte an graay,
An’ yalla’s t’ sand ’at ligs along fra tnee
ti Fila Bay.
Messrs. Halliday and Umpleby, who_ ar
chairman and secretary respectively ot
Yorkshire Dialect Society, themsel
contribute verses, and the book ce
brates the Society’s 50th anniversary.
* * * *
In A Harbor Green : Benedict
(Cape). Mr. Cape’s young novelists con-
form more or less to a pattern; tner
the local color of a new district, t
are the local identities contriving all *
of wickedness behind the fapade or
and order, there is the young g iri ,
whom life drives its iron-shod w* l j
and there is the young novelist seeing
with impartial malice. This one is s
Ireland ; it has a lawyer who sedu
young girl avid for life, and a lady P
keeper who turns vicious on losing
lawyer, and a farmer’s son who l? v ® <j e
girl seduced by the lawyer and is m a
advances to by the lady pubkeeper, a
man acquitted of the murder of ms
who confesses the murder to the e
son, and an election meeting where n d
lady pubkeeper throws up a wmdo
screams a denunciation of the lawyer .
is addressing the meeting, and an
ending in which the lawyer takes in
sponsibility for the baby which w
fact fathered by the farmer’s son.


•'TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING”
Horderns’
Limited quantity only!
English desip Roll Top Desks
s
■ w
m
* |
5: '■
I'M
* -V
f JW /-"wii.iiii.i.i; ■ ■■■*■
tm
m
m
: mm
m
t> '■ |s3-a.'
mm&k '7t*
«^,v.-7S' / V
m;;:
. j
I riw ir n*t
u r l
Ww&Sjl?
V.
' 1 ?
“Cutler” type Desk with eight
drawers, including two filing drawers
and pigeon holes. 4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in.
.1 y ; '
desk is of solid construction in
Manchurian Oak. Roller interlocking
system top. Price, <£sl/15/3
“Bendix” Chairman Chair. Price £l5/2/3
Below.
Hall Telephone Table and Chair
Suitable as writing table, with middle
drawer, reeded legs, 35in. x 19in. x 30in.
and priced at only £9/3/6
Chair extra , £5/0/6
IVI
<
li
an
fl
I
-*^£Xs
i
*
,*■■■•'■'
Right.
Secretary Desk and “Bendix 99 Secretary Chair
3ft fi *
• t)in - x 2ft. Bin. with panelled back, recess for stationery, four drawers
and dictation slide. In Walnut or Natural Maple finish. £2O/16/9.
Chrome steel frame Chair, revolving, upholstered seat. £7/8/9.
Above.
Office Desk with steel framed Chair
pedestal Desk 4ft. x 2ft. Bin., four drawers,
sol id top, Medium Oak colour. Priced at £ll/19/3.
Chair with steel frame, sprung seat, padded arms, revolving. £6/9/6.
Centre.
eltixe Client’s Chair with sprung
upholstered -seat. Hide, £l3/4/3; leatherette. £ll/12/-.
m*
V
SgS
?SS4,
mUOm HORDERNS’ OFFICE FURNITURE—THIRD FLOOR. ’PHONE M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT); BOX 27120, G.P.0., SYDNEY


IN THE VALLEY
By DAVID CAMPBELL
JIM GRAY and Harvey Lockyer
kept a skeleton in a cupboard. The
cupboard had a rope handle on
each side, and every Friday night
they carried it from their quarters to the
mess to shout the skeleton a glass of beer.
The name of the skeleton was Tom
Death.
The mess was a long timbered barn-
room on a wooden rise. Fence-posts
blazed in the fireplaces at opposite ends,
the flames licking through the adzed rail-
holes and burning a welcome in the frosty
panes. Officers stood in groups along the
long bar, drinking and talking shop.
“Gangway!” Harvey Lockyer would
cry. “Gangway for Tom Death!”
They would hoist the cupboard up on
to the ©orner of the bar and throw the
doors wide. Inside, on a high stool, sat
the skeleton with its legs crossed. It
gazed from hollow sockets oyer the heads
of the laughing officers.
“How’s Tom tonight?” a friend would
ask. “Beer, Jim? Harvey?”
When the beers came, Gray would raise
his eyebrows.
“Here, here!” he would say. “Where
are your manners? You’re one light.
Aren’t you going to buy a beer for Tom?
Gets pretty dry shut up in a cupboard
all day.”
“Corporal! A beer for Tom! ”
And Harvey Lockyer, smiling seriously
and scolding the skeleton for spilling the
beer, would tilt back the creaking head
and tilt the glass. Much of the beer was
spilled, for Lockyer took a generous
delight in watching his friend Gray.
Jim Gray was a fair, sharp-boned,
handsome young man of nervous wit. He
had fitted the skeleton out with a stomach
of glass tubes that ended in a retort; and
while the amber column wound slowly
down the thin spiral. Gray gesticulated
with laughter.
“God! Look at him!” he would cry,
his fine face lit up in the firelight and his
eyes widely blue. “What a life, eh?”—
crowding the others around the cupboard.
“What a life!. Free beer and no dawn
take-offs! ”
And slapping the skeleton on its bony,
wire-jointed knee, he would say, “You
fell on your feet all right, Tom. You
know what’s good for you.”
i 1 A ND who empties the retort?”
Inhere was much coming and go-
ing on the station, new crews arriving
each month for war training, and trained
crews leaving for advance squadrons in
the north. And one of the newcomers,
unused to die tension in The Valley, to
the gusty infection of Gray’s laughter,
would ask the question with a knowing
smile, a smile that faltered before the lean
symbol in the cupboard.
Who drinks Death’s share?”
Now, now,’*' Jim Gray would say.
No coarseness in front of Tom, Tom.”
The newcomer would perhaps explain
that his own name was not Tom; but
aftei a week in The Valley he would know
differently. Everyone, including the
skeleton, was Tom. Tom had become
the general term of address.
It was used mainly for convenience,
for no one could keep up with all the
names. But the thing went deeper.
The training course was a tough one,
and the lean twin-engined bombers were
difficult to fly and unreliable. Many
crashed —too many. It made men
nervous, and crews leaving for the war
sang songs and sometimes broke the furni-
ture in the mess. A reason had to be
found for the high deathrate, and the
theorists found it.
It was, they said, simply a matter of
economics. In the south there was a
reserve of aircraft; up north, every air-
craft was needed. Consequently, the weak
were weeded out during training.
The flying instructors saw the point and
took care. They called their pupils Tom
and were spared any heartaches over
Dick and Harry. Life was kept at arm’s
length, but Death drank intimately with
them in his open cupboard.
As the Friday evenings wore towards
morning, a wild gay look would come into
Harvey Lockyer’s shy eyes, for three
friends had been shot from his wingtip
in the islands; and he would sing, sway-
ing in friendly chorus:
Vm going to a better, land where every-
thing is right,
Where whisky grows on the coconut-trees
and you go home every night;
Where there’s nothing else to do all day
but sit around and sing;
C’est beaucoup and women too! Oh,
Death, where is your sting ?
Gray laughed but drank little; and
when no one was left for Lockyer to
sing with. Gray led him to their cold
quarters and went back for Tom Death.
The next morning, if they were not
flying, they drank the beer in the retort;
and Lockyer, returning to the bar, would
complain in his quiet dry way that some-
one had dug a hole outside the door of
the mess and that he had fallen into it
on going to bed.
“It’s not the digging of the hole that
I mind,” he would explain. “It’s the way
it’s filled in the next morning as though
it had never been there. Shows lack of
moral fibre, to my mind; and besides,
someone might get buried,”
Jim Gray would double up with
laughter,
[T was midwinter in The Valley when
1 Gray was late for his Friday-night
appointment. They carried the cupboard
to the mess as usual, and there Gray went
through elaborate farewells.
“Got to fly,” he said, crossing himself.
“Mine’s a double brandy. Neat, thanks,
corporal,”
He fed the brandy to Tom Death,
throwing back his head to laugh, and took
Harvey Lockyer by the hand.
“Good-bye, old boy,” he said. “It’s
been a good life.”
“Nice to have known you,” said
Lockyer, “but I don’t like brandy in the
morning,”
The fires crumbled in a rose glow and
the officers smiled at the bar.
“Don’t fly too high or too fast,” some-
one warned.
Gray raised an acknow-
ledging finger, shook hands
with the skeleton. He
winked an eye, gripping the
dead bone,
“See you later,” he said.
As he walked out of the
mess, the wind fumbled at
the locks of the windows.
It waited around the corner with a knife.
It was a cold night, sharp with frost, with
stars.
No fogs, anyway. Gray thought, feel-
ing his greatcoat lap about him down the,
rise. Below, the shallow valley cupped
the lights for warmth, green and white
and crimson; and around the perimeter
gaunt hands of trees reached up into the
star-shine. He was stinging-warm by the
time he came to the farmhouse.
A ROAR of engines running up, dust
blowing through the orchard, lean
metal shapes caught in a web of boughs,
men green and drowned beneath the glow
of wing-lights, the glare of a page—an
aerodrome is vivid in the night. Jim Gray
climbed into the right-hand seat, and,
checking the oil temperature, adjusting his
throat microphone, said, “Take her
away!” The aircraft rolled through
darkness to the taxi-ing stand.
He’ll be the next. Gray thought, look-
ing sideways in the dim lighting at the
big sure-jawed, sure-handed, raven man
whom he had to train. He said aloud,
“You can sit her down prettily enough,
Tom; but these kites need care. Have
you forgotten anything?”
The big man smiled. Gray noticed the
excessive whiteness and evenness of his
teeth, and that the top and bottom teeth
met like the tipping of fingers.
“Bob’s the name,” he said. “Bob
Sutherland. No, I don’t think I’ve for-
gotten anything.”
He blinked the navigation lights and
was given a green by the control officer.
A quarter-way down the flarepath when
the engines burnt red under the cowls and
power shook the aircraft. Gray said,
“Doesn’t feel right, does it? Taking
over.”
With surprising quickness he slapped
down the flap-Jever, wound the trim-tab,
checked the flaps. The aircraft climbed
steadily into the night.
Gray lifted the flaps, reduced power.
“See what I mean?” he said. “You
take off with fifteen per cent, flap—Tom.”
Sutherland smiled his vivid smile.
“Right,” he said,
T HEY turned in to land. As the wheels
1 came down, the nose tilted and Gray
said, “Notice anything?”
Sutherland studied the lighted panel
and said slowly, “The instruments show
that one wheel’s only half-down.”
“What are you going to do about it?”
A snarling twisted expression came
into Sutherland’s face and he said, “Look
here. Gray. Is this another of your
tricks?”
“I wish it was, Tom,” Gray said, meet-
ing the big man with half-humorous eyes.
“What are you going to do about it?”
They crossed the smoking flares on full
power. Throttling back, Sutherland
raised and lowered the undercarriage
several times, watching the instruments,
“I’ll carry out emergency procedure,”
he said.
“First, Tom, we’ll make a visual check ;
and then we’ll climb to seven thousand
feet.”
The aerodrome receded to pinpoints of
lights.
At altitude the night was smooth and
cold, clustered with navigable stars. The
torn air screamed in the cowlings, sucked
at the window-glass, A knife of moon
rose in the west.
“Back —back,” Gray was saying,
watching the speed sink until the aircraft
trembled. “Now forward! Back!
Forward! ”
The manual emergency devices had
failed to lower the undercarriage. Now
he was teaching Sutherland to shake the
wheels down. Sutherland’s left leg
danced three times on the rudder-pedal.
“All right,” Gray said. “I’ll take over.
Have a cigarette.”
The other drew the good smoke deep
down into his lungs, and Gray said,
“You’ll be right now. Bob. You can
fly this aircraft as well as I can, but
you’re careless. You’ve got to be careful
in these kites. You live longer.”
Sutherland raised his eyes and smiled,
regarded the point of his cigarette.
“All right,” he said. “It was the cold.
You’re a good fellow, Gray. But how
do we get down out of this?”
“I’ll have a go at shaking ’em down,”
Gray said. “And after all—belly-land-
ings aren’t as bad as that.” Then, laugh-
ing his infectious nervous laugh, he said,
“I’ll bet Harvey Lockyer is as blind as
a bat by this time. You’ll have to join
us. Bob.”
Looking down he tried to pick out the
mess among the Pleiades cluster of the
lights.
BACK, back! Forward! Back! For-
ward!
Gray rocked the aircraft, keeping the
speed slightly above the stall. Until the
movement that he took over he had been
enjoying himself. He had watched the
big man wrestle the aircraft, used to
getting his own way. He saw the ex-
asperation in his eyes, the sweat prick
through his forehead in the cold, watch-
ing idly like a cat until Sutherland
glanced sideways, showing the whites of
his eyes, until his foot trembled involun-
tarily at the controls. And then he knew
that Sutherland would live; that he could
teach him to fly. Up to that point it had
been just a very good lesson.
Now it was his job to get the wheels
down.
And there was the darkness— darkness
between the stars, darkness between the
lights—a darkness that was one. And
there was a dim panel of instruments to
tell him where the earth was. The aircraft
shook at the stall, plunged, rose, plunged
Flying was Gray’s business.
“That’s one wheel well and truly
down,” he said, “I’ve shifted the other
a little. Check that hydraulic oil-tank
again. All gone? I thought so. Look,
do you mind having a leak in it? That
sometimes works. No. No good.”
For three-quarters of an hour he rocked
the aircraft, climbing at intervals to
make up for lost altitude.
“Time for a cigarette,” he said. “On®
thing, it keeps you warm.”
He had opened the collar of his great-
coat and was circling down slowly to-
wards the lights.
“No go?” Sutherland asked.
“No.”
Gray worked the undercarriage-l® ver
up and down.
“You’ve noticed?” he said. “The other
leg is stuck in the down position.”
“Not so good.” „ T
“That’s what I mean,” Gray said, *
think it would be best if you baled out.
“What about you?” . .
“This is my pigeon,” Gray said witn
a grimace. “I’ll land her. But it might
be best for you” ,
“I’ll stay,” Sutherland said. And,
meeting Gray’s cold humorous eyes, n
smiled, joining white teeth. “Oh,
needn’t worry about that. I’m no
Briton. On the contrary. There’s some-
thing solid under you here. While ou
there”- He spread a hand to to
night. “Have you ever baled out?
“No,” Gray said, “But I would-P
your position.”
“I think you’ll get away with it.”
Sutherland had set his jaw.
“Well, two’s company.” .
And suddenly Gray laughed his dou
ling-up laughter, resting a hand o
Sutherland’s shoulder. “There’s no dou
about it,” he said. “You’re a stubborn
. You’re as bad as Lockyer. 1
get you into trouble one day. By 1
£Continued on page 230


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3652
Wednesday, February 8, 1950
“THEY WERE MARVELLOUSLY CLEVER.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
INDONESIAN CHICKENS.
To one Mohammed Yamin, member of
the Indonesian delegation which, a few
weeks ago, formally accepted at the
Hague the Dutch surrender of the former
Netherlands East Indies, Australia owes
its thanks for spilling the beans. He has
made quite clear that the “Indernesian
comrades” of the late Federal “Labor”
Government and of the Communist
executive of the Waterside Workers’
Federation which ran that Government’s
anti-Dutch policy want Dutch New
Guinea not only for itself, but also as a
jumping-off ground for claiming all Aus-
tralian New Guinea, too.
For their game against Holland “our
Indernesian comrades” had the winning
cards placed in their hands by (1) the
so-called Good Offices Commission pro-
duced by Australian Socialist and Indian
Republican pressure out of U.N.0., and
(2) the Marshall Aid controllers in Wash-
ington, who persuaded the Dutch Govern-
ment to concede what the Javanese
republicans wanted. There were grim
suspicions all the time that this engineer-
ing would not make for peace, especially
as the Indonesians’ campaign had
Moscow’s malicious approval; but the
Australian wharfies were running Dr.
Evatt’s policy, and Dr. Evatt was president
of U.N.0., and peace, according to the
U.N.O. ideas, was shown by the “solu-
tion” in the Palestine argument to consist
simply in surrender to gunman-politics
on the spot. Thus the Indonesian busi-
ness ended in the same sort of peace
which the late Adolf Hitler used to pro-
duce every six months, and which his
former ally, Stalin, continues to personify.
It is peace-by-compromise in which the
other side does all the compromising, so
“avoiding” war.
The “settlement” at the Hague was
nearly shipwrecked at the last minute
when the Indonesian delegates demanded
that Dutch New Guinea should be
handed over, too. There is no justifica-
tion in history, geography or racial
affinity for the demand. This is simply
a near-by possession of the Dutch, and,
as such, something of which they might
be stripped while the late collaborators
with the Japanese had the Dutch where
they wanted them. Even the “Good
Offices Committee” (U.S.A., Belgium and
Australia) —now renamed the U.N.O.
“Conciliation Commission”—made no
gesture in support of that claim (though
the cause of peace was again invoked),
and they secured a delay of a year for
consideration.
In the course of the U.N.O. mediation
there are these differences, so far, be-
tween the Palestine example and that of
Indonesia: that no U.N.O. peacemaker
in the latter region has been murdered by
gangsters in the name of “merdeka”—
though three inoffensive Australian air-
men earlier were—and the Indonesian
“Government” has not yet told U.N.O. to
go and jump in Lake Success. Otherwise
Palestine appears to offer a first-class ex-
ample of the sort of peace and respect
for U.N.O. henceforth to be looked for
in the lands immediately fronting Aus-
tralia across the narrow northern seas.
When Dutch New Guinea became the
bone of contention in the concluding
hours of settlement at the Hague, Dr.
Hatta, leader of the Indonesian delega-
tion, volunteered at a Press conference
that “Indonesia was not putting forward
any claim to incorporate Australian trust
territory in New Guinea, British Borneo
or Portuguese Timor in the new United
Republic.” Having returned to Djakarta
(erstwhile Batavia), his conference
“adviser” did not wait long before con-
tradicting him. Few observers of the
scene would want more than one guess
to name the interests which appointed this
“adviser.” In the interval since October
the Cominform has set up in Peking be-
hind the Communist conquest of China,
and has already issued its orders to Aus-
tralian “Labor’s” Communist wing for
action to facilitate further operations in
what it calls the Pacific.
Mr. Spender, satiated with his feast of
Asian politics at the Colombo conference,
announced promptly that this jvild’
Javanese claim would not receive a
moment’s consideration in Canberra, and
“S. M. Herald” says “members of all
shades of political opinion in Federal
circles” agreed with him. So will every
Australian in every other circle except
that which marks the cyclonic disturb-
ance of pro-Soviet agents in Australian
politics and industry. It may be expected
that the new Minister for External Affairs
will seek formal endorsement by Parlia-
ment of this view, together with revision
of the instructions to the Australian
member of the U.N.O. “Conciliation
Commission,” which should afford an
opportunity for Dr. Evatt to disown this
abuse by the “Indernesian comrades” of
the sympathy Our Foreign Policy showed
for them.
What happens when a European
colonial Power plays up to the U.N.O.
Charter, and concedes independence to
local graduates in the Japanese school of
“co-prosperity,” is well illustrated in
French Indo-China, now liberated into
the society of nations under a name like
a breakfast-cereal. The ruler there
recognised by the French has the support
of the majority of the people. But the
Communist-aided guerrilla-leader has
proclaimed himself the rival Government
of Viet-Nam, and Moscow has hastened
to recognise his Government and not the
official one.
A similar Communist pretendei
may be expected t 8 show up in
Java at any moment. That is evidently
the opinion of Captain Westerling, an ex-
leader of commandos, who appeared the
other day with a private army enlisted
from local patriots who preferred the
Dutch to Japanese collaborators, seized
Bandoeng in the hills (the local “Simla ’),
wiped out the republican garrison in one
act, and then sat down on the communi-
cations with Batavia where these run
down into the plain. Captain Westerling
went into action with a declaration that
the Dutch had had a raw deal and that
the “United States of Indonesia’s” claim
to Dutch New Guinea was all windy non-
sense. He says his soldiers —and they
appear pretty workmanlike —are not
Dutch but Indonesians who hold the
view that their country has not won
independence in order to become a Red
satellite, under local Communist auspices.
There is, also, the example of Timor.
Dutch Timor being handed over to them,
the new Indonesians promptly demand
the Portuguese end of the island. In
the same way, if they could get, by force
or political fraud, a footing in Dutch
New Guinea, the stage would be set for
infiltration into the native communities
of the Australian territory, and Aus-
tralia would in short time be asked what
better right she has to a naval base at
Manus than the Dutch had to Sourabaya.
By the time Soviet Russia was ready to
demand Sumatra and Java (and their oil-
wells) for herself, the compliant Javanese
republicans would be instructed to seek
compensation in “lebensraum” in New
Britain, the Solomons, New Caledonia
and New Zealand, and Northern Aus-
tralia would be by that time invaded
automatically. Then would, no doubt,
be fulfilled the event for hailing which
Comrade Sharkey is now doing time in
jail—namely, the local Communists’ rally
to Soviet troops pursuing “aggressors”
through Australia in the cause of world
peace.
For those who like to find some meat
to chew in this sort of political dish, it
may be observed that New Guinea, like
Sumatra and Borneo, is in an oil-bearing
zone.
Socialism Awaits a Verdict.
Last week the curtain was rung down
on Britain’s first post-war Parliament,
and in a fortnight’s time British electors
will »have the opportunity of passing
judgment on the Attlee Socialists’ five
years’ stewardship. Their votes on
February 23 will decide whether Britain
is to continue on the road to Socialism
or whether the time has come to cry a
halt to what is really a vast sociological
experiment with nearly fifty million
human beings as guinea-pigs.
When the Attlee Government came to
office in 1945 the war in Europe was over
and Japan was about to surrender; the
stage was set for the experiment for which
Attlee, Dalton and the older members
of the Labor party had been waiting for
40 years. That conditions had changed
vastly during their years of waiting
mattered nothing to the men who took
over from Churchill’s caretaker Govern-
ment.
Britain’s oversea investments, mauled
badly in the first war, had disappeared
altogether in the second, and Fabian
Socialist theory, while deprecating Im-
perialism, had not bargained for a com-
plete drying-up of income from overseas.
Six years of war and hundreds of con-
centrated bombing raids had left another
legacy which was not contemplated in
the Fabian textbooks. But it would have
taken more than Shat to restrain the
Socialists. Flushed with victory and
eager to show the world how a Socialist
State really should be run, they could
hardly control their impatience to get
started. Dr. Dalton exulted that “this,
indeed, is the appointed hour of British
Socialist destiny... .This is by far the
best Parliament within living memory.”
On the first day that “the best Par-
liament within living memory” met,
members of the Government party rose
to their feet in a body in the chamber at
Westminster and sang “The Red Flag,”
thereby setting the keynote for the
ensuing five years. J. E. D. Hall, record-
ing the incident in Labor’s First Year,
observed that “some Ministers, momen-
tarily transported to a Labor-party con-
ference, rose promptly and then, recol-
lecting themselves, sat down again.”
During the next few years Ministers were
often to be faced with this conflict be-
tween their responsibilities as members
of His Majesty’s Government and their
allegiance to party shibboleths. Some-
times the higher principles triumphed;
more often the lesser loyalty prevailed.
The Socialists lost no time in getting
their policy under way. Before the new
Parliament was three months old Herbert
Morrison announced the Government’s
intention to nationalise coal, gas, elec-
tricity, civil aviation, telecommunications,
railways, canals, long-distance haulage,
docks and harbors, and, by the anni-
versary of the first sitting, part of the
programme had already been carried out.
The Bank of England had been nation-
alised ; so had the coalmines. British
air-services throughout the world had
been brought under the control of three
State-owned corporations under the direc-
tion of the Minister for Civil Aviation;
Cables and Wireless, Ltd., had been con-
verted to public ownership. Railways,
inland transport and electricity under-
takings were added to the list shortly
afterwards ; then the Socialists paused for
breath. They had plenty to give them
pause. Miners, railwaymen and others
had quickly found that a change of bosses
didn’t mean that the hoped-for millennium
had arrived and the taxpayers that nation-
alisation meant dearer coal, increased rail-
fares and whacking deficits. Added to
this, bread-rationing had been reintro-
duced by the Government which had been
going to make Britain a land of plenty.
Back in 1923 Philip Snowden, speaking
in the Commons on the subject of
Socialism, advocated a policy which could
be summed up as “no further step for-
ward until previous steps have been
justified by success.” By the time the
Labor party met at Scarborough in 1948
for its annual conference some of its
leaders were urging similar caution.
Emanuel Shinwell, who had made a
botch of the job of handling the nation’s
fuel and had been kicked upstairs to the
War Office, complained that
When the Government nationalised coal-
mining it thought it knew all about it,
whereas, in fact, it did not. There had
been too little preparation of nationalisa-
tion schemes We found we had to com-
plete legislation without blueprints.
He was not very repentant, though. Any
pause Shinwell advocated would be so
brief as to be only momentary; the
Government “would not be satisfied until
it had nationalised all Britain’s major
industries.”
Mr. Morrison struck a note of warn-
ing:—
The Government cannot automatically
carry out the orders of Labor-party con-
ferences, because if it did the electors
would throw out Labor at the next elec-
tions.
This thought was not a new one in
Morrison’s mind. In 1945, soon after his
party came to power, he said: “The real
test of a political party is not winning one
election ; it is winning two consecutive
elections.”
But the rank-and-file of the party was
not worried with thoughts like these; it
called for full-steam ahead, with the steel
industry as the next objective. Already
Alfred Edwards, member for Middles-
borough, had resigned from the party
over the steel-grab proposals, and before
long Ivor Thomas was to follow him,
saying,
Socialist planning is making Britain a
land fit for zeroes... .The itching fingers
of planners cannot let things alone. After
the last three years I have doubts of both
the competence and intentions of our
Socialist Ministers,
The planners were hard put to find an
excuse for nationalising steel. Production
figures were at record levels, prices were
lower than those of American and Con-
tinental competitors, and, although wages
had risen by 107 p.c. in the preceding
eight years, steel prices had increased only
70 p.c. In contrast, the price of coal was
up 145 p.c., despite which the collieries,
under Socialist control, were losing
heavily; the privately-owned steel in-
dustry, was paying dividends. The
Minister for Supply explained that the
high production-rate was because of the
workers’ belief that nationalisation wa«
near at hand; if the Steel Bill was not
passed “there would be demoralisation
among a large section of workers in the
industry, and, inevitably, output would
suffer.” Any excuse being good enough
to hang the cat, the disciplined Labor
majority in the Commons tacked the steel
industry on to the growing list of
Socialist spoils, though, thanks to opposk
tion in the Lords, the actual grab is not
to take place until some time after the
coming election.
The Socialist appetite grows by what it
feeds on, and the 1949 Labor-party con-
ference, in effect, told the Government
not to slacken off but to drag sugar,
cement and industrial assurance into the
net. Fearful of what the electorate might
have to say about further experiments in
socialisation, the Government deferred a
decision as long as it could, but late last
month its election manifesto mentioned
these industries, also meat-wholesaling
and “appropriate sections” of the
chemical industry,
There can be no marking-time about
Socialism ; it must go on or collapse.
Labor’s election manifesto was an un-
conscious confession of failure. It was
the work of men who, after a lifetime of
theory, had for five years been forced to
face reality, but who still hoped in their
hearts to make hard facts conform to
cherished theories. It must have been
galling for the optimists of 1945 to write
in 1950 that, unless production continued
to increase, “Britain cannot improve or
even maintain the present standard of
life* social services cannot advance or
eve n survive and our national freedom
and independence cannot continue.”
Five years ago the Socialists were
supremely confident of their ability to
lead Britain to prosperity, and the people
w h° put Attlee, Cripps and Co. in power
presumably believed them capable of
doing it. Today the tone is more humble
—“Let Us Win Through Together.”
Observing the present state of the country
and casting his mind back over five years
of Socialist rule it is possible that John
Full may prefer to take his chance of
winning through without ’em.
The Cost of Homes.
There is no doubt whatever that home
prices are conditioned by current building
costs, and no man is fool enough today
to sell an established home at one penny
less than the market will bear. A home ten
years old is worth as much as a compara-
tively new building because the quality
of the workmanship alone, as compared
with today’s construction, compensates
for the ten years’ depreciation, quite apart
from the cost and effort of laying out
gardens, etc.
In N. S. Wales the Co-operative Build-
ing Societies’ Advisory Committee main-
tains its own private form of land-sales
control by refusing to approve of loans
in cases where there is a difference ot
more than about five per cent, between
the committee’s valuation of the property
and the purchase price.
This, of course, means that buyer
and seller get together and maKe
their private arrangements —if the buyer
has enough ready cash —and then submit
a contract for approval at figures known
to be satisfactory to the committee. B}
this means the committee is able to main-
tain some pretence of truth in the fab t.
that the Commonwealth Bank, etc.,
up to 100 p.c. of the purchase price or
houses. f
The honest and truthful way
going about the business—and achieving
the same end (that of restricting inflation,
if possible)—would be to come out mm
the open and limit advances to a n
percentage of an approved valuers va
ation of subject property. . ,
The argument that auctioneers in
bourne are no longer finding it oasy _
get the high prices of a few months g
can be misleading. “A few months g
all improved property was controne
only a relatively small volume rea
the market. One result of fantSic
was that at auction bids reached .
levels although ultimate selltng * P ,
were very much lower. With rem
controls a huge volume of P(°P e f
released on the market and price t^e
fell—if auction bidding be take a _
standard of comparison. Actuary P
finally paid have remained mucn
the same as the former blackmark 1 d
-or some 40 p.c. to 60 p.c. above pegg
price. • 'M s.Wo
There is little evidence, in i • ifl
at any rate, to indicate or n eW
property prices—either for verV thiog
homes. On the contrary,
points to a further climb in y • fu j]y
the demand for accommoda i fail
met there is little likelihood
in prices of homes.
CAVE


PLAIN ENGLISH
Trailing Their Coats.
If there was one job for which the leaders
of the Liberal-Country alliance got an
emphatic mandate at the late elections it
was to do what the Chifley Government
couldn’t do—clean up the Communist
sabotage of industry and of key trade-
unions. Great numbers of working
unionists voted for that programme, and
“Labor” knows it.
The Trades Halls are currently
appalled by the Communist reaction as
expressed in the “rolling strikes, as
ordered by the Soviet’s agents, begun in
many east-coast ports and threatened to
be extended in other unions whose indus-
trial policy is dictated by Communist
executives. The industrial bushrangers
organising this attack on the Australian
people, both as workers and as electors
of the Menzies Government, are making
quite plain that their objective is rebellion
against the Commonwealth and all con-
stitutional authority.
J. Healy, Communist boss of the v
wharfies, said at a Communist meeting at
Newcastle City Hall (Sydney “Sun” re-
port, 2/2/’5O) —“Before we could get this
hall we were forced [to agree] to sing
‘God Save the King’.” His audience hav-
ing then in some fashion “sung” it, Healy
called on all unionists to “rebel against
the Menzies Government and to keep
production low.”
Sydney “Sun” reported him as continu-
ing:—
On the waterfront we have recently had
12 hold-ups in 12 ports. These were all a
matter of rebellion. There was some
measure of an industrial issue in some of
them, but in the main they were rebellion.
Simultaneously E. Roach, his brother-
Communist and co-boss of the wharfies’
union, was telling a stopwork meeting
of 1800 watersiders at Brisbane Stadium
that he had been “from port to port over
the past five or six weeks attending stop-
work meetings— part of the rolling
strikes.” Then: —
We know where the important ships and
cargoes are
nr Jk,® [wharfies’] federation’s programme
provides for dislocation of industry, not
I s , tor the sake of dislocating industry,
™ employers to grant our de-
e will make it impossible for
me Menzies Government to carry on....
, we win this campaign we can con-
idate one position and then wage
another campaign for other issues, and
en another and another, and then we
can go to work in other industries.
That is tantamount to saying to the
overnment “You were elected on a
policy of removing us from control over
unions as saboteurs and rebels. Well, we
are just that. We now say so, and call
on the unions to support our rebellion,
e have called these strikes to tell you
e !i * you ’ tbe Government, and your
andate, and your laws, and the people
elected you. If that’s not enough of
Nn« nC if We wil1 give y°u some more.
Mow show us what you can do! ”
the r' 5 d Grimes Act doesn’t give
wt,.° Wer r ent , a serviceable-enough
rpb/U y 1° wkb tbese two avowed
call p at r° nce ’ r ’ Menzies might well
than rl ia !! ent together a little earlier
pj. eb • 22— especially if he is going to
dehalp!!! 7 a , fortnight in Address-in-reply
wants an or an y better stick he
Crime and Punishment.
3 ’ therC t0 ° k P laCe
blood « ey second hold-up in which
The firef 5 sbed * n ust over a fortnight,
two 0 !r cur^ ed on January 13, when
davit ked , and armed bandi ts, in broad
into S T a iu d m business hours, walked
wealth R Ultimo branch of the Common-
is still f ai l k aad sbot tbe man ager, who
behind bos P ltak the ruffians escaping
atelv a Spray bullets fired indiscrimin-
gunLn h° ng customers and staff. The
neither 1 u 0t yet been captured, and
attemnted aV f e tbose wbo ’ on February 3,
ttempts to rob the Moft , s Dock > ay _
itself wh Wltbln be gates of the dock
armed clerks!" W “ UndCr gUard ° f several
interest comes f rom the
Press t?h he P ° 1Ce are re Ported by the
both crim aVe ventured the opinion that
by two rldfi Wer f P roba bly committed
custodv «vf DS bo esca Ped from police
ago and wb / e under sentence two months
ine th r° bave ever since been defy-
wL h L? 0l n e force ’ members of which
Adekid? Ua \ searchmg for them in
the Mr, t’ 0I r-, tbe Arcades on the day of
the Mort’s Dock hold-up.
which ml S ° f the most reeent incident
bandits ke U abn °rmal are that the
an3 P a per put it, “cut loose
guards nJ e f k ! eSSly a close ran ge at
Mort-streef’ ,Cei h S and ° ther P ers ons in
regard f 6et ’u sbowmg a complete dis-
man da! 0 " hu T? life ’ That onl y °ne
__as pounded must remain a mystery
to anybody who has visited the scene
and observed the damage to buildings
caused- by the gunmen’s bullets; they
dashed into a motor-car, made their way
to the harbor-side and left by launch,
being uncaptured up to the time this was
written on February 6, though police, in
large numbers, armed with tommy-guhs,
are now supposed to be hunting for them.
This outrage was only one of a large
number of crimes of violence which have
taken place in N. S. Wales of recent
years, some of them involving murder,
and the Government of N. S. Wales
cannot escape its share of responsi-
bility for the condition of affairs which
breeds them. The ease with which
notorious criminals find their way out
of jail long before the normal expiry of
their sentences has been a matter of com-
plaint ever since the present “Labor”
Administration has been in power. The
easy conditions of imprisonment are
equally well known, as is the fact that
there is now no death penalty for mur-
der, be it ever so wanton or coldblooded
and purposeful.
It is nonsense to say that the present
wave of vicious violence cannot be dealt
with. Sydney has had some instances
before, and Governments have shown that
they can cope with them. A wave of
juvenile murder in the mid-’thirties came
to a sudden end when the Stevens Govern-
ment hanged a couple of wanton young
killers, and at an earlier period the dreaded
Sydney pushes shut up shop overnight
when the Government of the day showed
that it was not afraid to apply “the cat”
to the hides of cowardly thugs.
If Mr. McGirr is not prepared to an-
nounce measures to assure that from now
on crime does not pay, as it undoubtedly
has paid over the last five or six years
in N. S. Wales, the matter should be made
a main issue at the State election.
McGirr's "Political Reforms."
Enrolment in N. S. Wales is com-
pulsory ; so is voting. Until recently a
postal vote was permitted electors
who, through sickness or absence
from their electorate, were unable to
attend a polling-booth. Last year the
McGirr Government virtually abolished
this privilege by limiting its application
to sick persons and expectant mothers;
even these will miss out if their votes have
not reached the returning-officer seven
days before the election. Persons absent
from their electorate on business or
holidays are now completely disfranchised,
so that “universal” suffrage is confined
to those Who stay at home at election-
time.
Mr. McGirr’s excuse for the change was
that the system was being abused; his
reason was that in the Coogee, Kogarah
and Concord by-elections a majority of
postal votes went to Liberal candidates
—to the McGirr mind clear proof that
there had been foul-play somewhere.
Next Saturday the new rule gets its
first try-out—in the by-elections in Con-
cord (again), Wollongong and Armidale—
and its effect will be harsher than it
would be at a general election, where
travellers still retain the right to cast an
“absent vote” at a polling-booth in an-
other electorate. On Saturday polling-
booths will be open only in the three
electorates being contested. On past
figures over a thousand electors in Con-
cord and a similar number each in Wol-
longong and Armidale will be debarred
from voting.
This week another great electoral
“reform” will be tried out in New South
Wales —the ban on Press comment for
three days before polling-day. “Labor”
has always claimed to be the great cham-
pion of democratic rights and of freedom
of expression. The McGirr branch of
the party can now boast two records
which no one will want to take away
from them. They are the first Govern-
ment in Australia to bring in legislation
to break down universal suffrage and the
first State Government to interfere with
freedom of political expression.
Preliminary Canter.
.... Shortages of goods will mean a
Ifurther] rising spiral of prices and wages
and costs The industrial problem is
crucial. The highest production and liv-
ing standards cannot be achieved without a
new and human spirit in the industrial
world. No industry can succeed without
the co-operation of capital, management
and labor.
Pursuing this broad outline of policy
announced by Mr. Menzies, both Shipping
and Fuel Minister McLeay and Labor
Minister Holt have been putting squarely
before the unions the essential ground-
work for high employment, maintained
wages, and the turning-back of the past
three years’ steeply rising costs of living
and of production under inflationary in-
fluences. Mr. Holt’s preliminary discus-
sions with A.C.T.U. officials in Mel-
bourne and the Trades Hall executive in
Sydney were especially frank and con-
ciliatory, while conveying the Govern-
ment’s firm purpose of restoring respect
in all unions for arbitration tribunals.
The controlling organisations of the
unions are now under test. The first
thing to be established, if A.C.T.U.
secretary Broadby’s public response is
sincere, is the readiness of that body to
act up to its own principles and use its
authority to suppress such wilful political
strikes as those (to mention current in-
stances) on the waterfront and in the
(Continued on next page.)
ANOTHER NEW GUINEA PROCLAMATION.
“You no more Godsavum Billy McKell; now you Godsavum Dr. Soekarno, Godsavum Waterside
Workers' Federation, Godsavum Indernesian comrades.”


7741E/R
cravena-
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
M
i
mm
■ X
mm
Shell refinery at Clyde. Mr. Holt pro-
mised the unions full Government recog-
nition of their place in the community
and support for their legitimate activities
provided they “do not allow political
considerations to override their great
responsibilities to the community gener-
ally.”
The further text will be, of course, the
unions’ readiness to co-operate in expand-
ing national production. The Govern-
ment has a clear mandate from the
electors to remove obstacles in the way
to this end, and will expect some decision
in the two-year-long hesitation of the
A.C.T.U. to endorse the general scheme,
under all possible safeguards for the
unions’ interests, to encourage the spread
of incentive-payments and profit-sharing.
This is clearly set out in the Govern-
ment’s programme for implementing
peace-in-industry by conciliation, in which
the onus is placed just as heavily upon
employers as upon the unions.
Concentration under one Minister ot
administration of industrial matters is
part of Mr. Menzies’s moves to meet the
A.C.T.U.’s convenience. No doubt Mf.
Holt’s very plain-spoken words at the
Sydney Trades Hall discussion was meat,
to convey that, while the Governmer
would not flinch from taking up the
challenge by Communist executives i •
certain unions, the action it is consider.'.-
to ban these saboteurs from union ouice
is directed towards freeing the um° n 5
from influences that most of them d £te ' 1 ’
“The class-war” is conducted by te*
Communists as a political weapon. M ■
Holt warns the Trades Hall against tn
course. If they disown it, as they if ll
do unless they accept the Conunum
direction which they have
then they cannot maintain it as an w *
trial weapon without proclaiming
the recovery of industrial prosperity
impossible. , ...u
The electors have had enough ol
class-war,” and in plain language c
said so.
POINTS
From 10 o’clock tonight the McGirr
Iron Curtain descends on electoral com-
ment in New South Wales. Newspapers
in Victoria, Queensland and other States
may tell their readers as much as they
please about the issues in the three by-
elections to be held in the Ma State on
Saturday, but if a paper in New South
Wales prints a word on the subject, those
responsible will be up for a £lOO fine
or six months’ jail. The ban extends to
posters and signs, and although candi-
dates may hold meetings they may not
advertise them ; nor may they use ampli-
fiers or circulate any reports of the meet-
ings. McGirr’s excuse for the ban is that
it will give electors time to think things
over Calmly. The people of New South
Wales are finding it more difficult every
day to think of McGirr calmly.
In France, where the workings of pro-
portional representation are a warning to
those who are earbashed by advocates of
the system here, the Bidault Government
has just survived five no-confidence
motions on questions of finance—always
a touchy subject in the French Parlia-
ment. On one motion only the Speaker's
casting-vote saved the Government from
being the umpteenth to be defeated since
the war. But the respite was only a
short one ; by Sunday the Socialists had
withdrawn their support and Bidault was
making frantic efforts to get a new Gov-
ernment together before the next meet-
ing of Parliament.
In Tasmania, where p.-r. is also in favor
—or at least in use —the Cosgrove Gov-
ernment looks like going out on its neck
as soon as the House meets again. Since
1922 only three Tasmanian Governments
have had a majority of more than two
before appointing a Speaker. The present
one, which has been in shaky control of
the Treasury benches since August, 1948,
had no majority at all when the returning-
officers had finished counting the votes ;
it consisted of 15 “Labor” members, 12
Libs and three Independents. Cosgrove
had sworn before the poll that he would
not take office if he had to depend on the
votes of Independents, but he pocketed
what passed for his pride and prevailed
upon Independent member Wedd to
accept the Speakership. This gave him a
majority of one. Last week Wedd found
the appointment of Thomas de Largie
D’Alton as Agent-General in London too
much to stomach and announced his in-
tention of resigning the Speakership.
Rapid moves followed his resignation.
Townley, Independent member for Deni-
son, announced that he would move a
no-confidence motion when the House
met again ; D’Alton spoke of declining
the London job to avoid embarrassing
the Government; Townley said he would
still proceed with his no-confidence
motion. On Sunday the Liberal party
offered Townley the leadership of the
Opposition, which he accepted, and the
third Independent, Gray, announced he
would support the motion. All this, to
Cosgrove, was “one of the most blatant
political intrigues ever perpetrated in
Tasmania.” The electors should soon
have the opportunity to show whether
they agree with him.
D’Alton held the headlines for a brief
period about three years ago when a
Royal Commission examined charges that,
while Minister for Forests, he had accepted
bribes in the shape of gifts of timber to
the value of several hundred pounds. He
was exonerated after his explanation that
he had paid for the timber in cash, hand-
ing over the money in a Hobart street,
using bank-notes which he kept in his
office as a dog-racing bank.
Queensland Premier Hanlon spent the
weekend down south; according to
gossip he was trying to persuade McGirr
to agree to a joint election-day for their
two States, so that he could avoid the
backwash which could be expected if
N. S, Wales “Labor” was defeated before
Queensland went to the polls. The two
States voted on the same day in 1947,
and there is every reason to expect they
will do so again.
The wily Playford has set down the
date for the South Australian State elec-
tions as March 4, a few days after British
election results will be available, nomina-
tions to close on February 14, and Parlia-
ment to expire on February 28. Writs
for the new Parliament will be returnable
on April 7. The Government has been
in office since November, 1938, and with
its present support of 23 against 12 A.L.P.
and four Independents it has nothing to
fear. Half the 20 members of the Legis-
lative Council (L.C.P. 16, A.L.P. four)
retire, but there are likely to be only
two contests in two double-member seats
in which sitting-member Government can-
didates will be opposed.
Reported from Canberra that legislation
to re-establish the Commonwealth Bank
board and repeal the Bank Nationalisa-
tion Act (1947) will be among the first
brought down when Federal Parliament
meets. It is proposed that the governor
of the Commonwealth Bank will be chair-
man of the board. In view of the fact
that the bill will be designed mainly to
end the dictatorship of the Federal
Treasurer and the Commonwealth Bank
governor, and restore the autocratic
powers which they now wield to Parlia-
ment, it will give “Labor” a headache to
find an excuse to oppose it on “demo-
cratic principles.”
When Fadden’s experts review Aus-
tralian taxation methods and incidence
they might do worse than make a study
of the United States system. Uncle Sam’s
taxation-return form is about the size of
an Australian election-poster (lOin. by
6in.) and is so clearly arranged that wage-
and salary-earners are normally able to
assess themselves. Any Australian tax-
payer who attempted that without the
aid of Einstein would be apt to fall apart
at the occiput.
The Prime Minister is to announce
Cabinet’s decision on petrol today. In a
statement on Friday he said that in the
course of his announcement he would
“put the people in possession of the rele-
vant petrol facts.” Even if he does only
that the people will have something
they’ve never had before.
The long-awaited French petrol arrived
last week. No apology was heard from
“Fixer” Ashley, who, when he was
Minister for Fuel and should have known
all there was to know about petrol,
declared that it would never arrive and
that the whole thing was an election
fraud worked by Ampol and Fadden.
In Sydney the Communist party pub-
lishes “Newsletter,” a weekly sheet
devoted to horse- and dog-racing. The
ordinary edition comes out on Thursdays
and contains a form-guide and tips for
the Saturday meetings; price 4d. For
some time now a “special,” featuring
last-minute tips, has been put out on
Saturday morning; price, presumably
determined in accordance with the
Marxian theory of value. Is. Now the
Comrades have gone a step further in
their self-appointed task of helping the
punter to beat the books. At the week-
end a special “special” was advertised to
cover today’s meeting at Wyong; copies
were available at the “Newsletter” office
or from sellers outside the course for
ten shillings. Reports that it was printed
on goldleaf are a dirty capitalist lie.
New England New-State Movement
will hold its annual convention at Lis-
more on February 16 and 17, One of
the plans to be discussed is for a petition
to the State Government for a referendum
on separation. The result should be an
awkward pill for the McGirrs to swallow
in the light of the new electoral
boundaries and should encourage other
country districts to take steps to wrest
control of their own destinies out of the
hands of union bosses.
British Socialist plans for the nationali-
sation of industrial assurance have under-
gone a sea-change, brought about by the
rising tide of opposition. Last year
Attlee’s Minister for National Insurance,
Griffith, described the existing system as
“wasteful and uneconomic,” and said that
its condition could only be cured “by
converting it into a public service,”
Cynics accused the Government of want-
ing to get their hands on the funds of big
companies like Prudential, but the
strongest opposition came from a source
with which the Government had not
reckoned —the agents who collect the
weekly and monthly premiums from nine
out of ten working-class homes in Britain.
Staffs of assurance companies organ-
ised over 400 anti-nationalisation com-
mittees, divided into 14 regional districts,
with headquarters in London, and their
activities worried the Attlee party so much
that when “Labor” electon policy was an-
nounced it spoke of “mutualisation” in-
stead of nationalisation. The new scheme
is to set up an Industrial Assurance
Board which will buy out the shareholders
and ensure “that boards of directors are
effectively manned to advance the inter-
ests of their policyholders. No one seems
particularly impressed ; critics regard it
more as a change of tactics than a change
of heart.
Calwell, who must be missing the
publicity his former Department of
Information no longer gives him, broke
into the news on Sunday with a broadcast
prophecy of a Federal crisis within 18
months. “Labor,” he says, will create
events where it can, and direct them in
any case through its majority in the
Senate. Indulging in a little wishful
thinking, he sees “no real unity” in the
Government and hopes for a split over
petrol-rationing or revaluation of the
pound.
Eric Scott, president of the Pharma-
ceutical Guild, seems to take rather a
dim view of the Earle Page medicine-
plan ; he considers it will be “a hard
scheme to sell to the public.” According
to Scott, Australians spend about £B6
million a year on patent medicine ; appar-
ently that’s one thing that isn’t hard to
sell to the public. Eighty-six million
pounds means nearly £ll a head, includ-
ing babes-in-arms, guests in jail,
Christian Scientists and other no ’
addicts. Australians swallow a terrific w
of pills, potions and powders in the course
of a year, but Mr. Scott’s estimate seems
a trifle overexuberant.
J. J. Dedman has denied reports that
the A.W.U. has asked him to take on the
job of political organiser for the union
which intends to do its own electioneering
instead of contributing to A.L.P. funds
A reporter asked Deddy whether he
would be interested in an offer if made
The Corio Scot refused to commeet
himsel’.
Allocation of 1000 acres for industrial
purposes in Canberra will probably bring
howjs from those who want the Federal
capital to remain a sort of show-piece
in a glass-case, but it may do something
to humanise the place. A city devoted
entirely to legislative and administrative
practice cannot help losing touch with
realities.
Prime Minister Holland of New
Zealand has warned his people that the
Dominion is living “both externally and
internally far beyond its income, and is
meeting the internal deficiency by creat-
ing Reserve Bank credit without the
corresponding production of goods or
services.” It is the same old lesson:
substitutes can be found for everything
except work.
Contracts have been let for the supply
of boilers for South Australia’s new
powerhouse at Port Augusta, which is to
generate electricity from Leigh Creek coal
and transmit it as far afield as the
Murray. It will be a fair exchange;
Murray River water is led up around Port
Augusta to Whyalla.
THANK YOU.
“The Bulletin” wishes to thank its
readers and the Press for the recep-
tion given to its 70-year “Pageant”
published! last week. Congratula-
tions have come from all States of
the Commonwealth, and were still
arriving when this went to the
printer.


Hxibe
fg
df
gd
HOME-LIGHTING BATTERIES TO FULFIL EVERY
LIGHTING NEED —BACKED BY 61 YEARS' EXPERIENCE.
Wm\
m
r
jtHLi.a
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Here to discuss matters aeronautical,
Sir Miles Thomas, 8.0.A.C.’s chair-
man of directors, who owns to two
loves, armored-cars and aircraft, and
to which, after many years’ neglect,
he returned with renewed and Hitler-
inspired ardor. His considerable World
War I experience began as a private
driving an armored-car in the German
East African campaign. An early pen-
chant for the air lifted him to an R.F.C.
commission in Egypt, where he taught
aerial fighting at Heliopolis, before shift-
ing operations to Mesopotamia, Persia
and Southern Russia; here, D.F.C. De-
mobbed, he joined W. R. Morris (now
Lord Nuffield) as adviser on car-sales
promotion ; in three years he was general
sales-manager. Soon after Hitler marched
Thomas returned to his first love, though
this time as head of the group responsible
for producing cruiser tanks. Hitler dealt
with, he left the Morris firm to pursue his
second passion, and joined 8.0.A.C, as
deputy-chairman in 1948.
It’s an ill gale. Bucking into a snorter
off the N.S.W. coast recently, taking ’em
green over his bows like a half-tide rock,
Captain C. C. Parfitt of the Clan
Urquhart thought the only favor this gale
could bring him would be to lose itself
somewhere astern. On its wings, however,
came the news of his appointment as
commodore of the Clan, Shire and
Houston steamship lines.
Like the epileptic Dostoevsky, many of
whose books were about epileptics, Alan
Marshall, one of those rare individuals
who turn even their disabilities to advan-
tage, has written a new novel, this time
about his crippled childhood. On his
crutches as active as most men with sound
pins, Marshall has covered a lot of
ground locally and in Asia, and in the
late war launched on a caravan tour to
take messages to relatives of soldiers ;
his horse died and he broke a leg, but
out of the adventure came These Are My
People. A born raconteur, he can tell
hair-stiffening stories of gun-running in
the Gulf of Siam and adventures in
dubious joints in Singapore and Hong
Kong. A prolific writer, he won the Aus-
tralian Literary Society’s story compe-
tition three times and is now camped at
Harcourt, near Castlemaine, after material
lor the next novel,
VThe R °yal Navy made one of its
unpubficised but typical gestures recently when,
nil e ° 5 1 “ ys > il sent Rear-Admiral R. K.
MiSn’t D 7?°” head of the British Naval
thi ® t 0 G l eece > to Port Trebuki, Skyros, in
th Trebuki was an assembly port for
ine Dardanelles campaign; 0 n the dark night
nrrwiii 1 • u’- Midshipman Dickson was
tn lifji *5. bis boat to a French hospital ship
w. n . , e . coffin of a young officer of the
tn ™II D i VIS1 ° n Wh ° had died ° n board and
fnnpral Ct f par 4 y ° f Senior officers of the
P , arty - J Reallsin S from the mourners
DirKnn dec ® ased wa ? someone of importance,
lain mc ? u,nes and found he was to
mem£t Brooke -, Dickson still vividly re-
rmmhi 8 the iscene —the cortege winding up the
agh between dark, rearing hills, its pro-
ferns k h d by the fli ckering lights of lan-
u™’; ™. buuself was not present at the grave,
nn in ,h lam y concerned with his boat’s crew
rr P aft w neck ? m water trying to refloat their
achiPveH f f - the • funeral P a rty returned—
maimnn y - just L n tune. Now the only re-
Ser u Vln , g officer who was at that his-
nf th Isem barkation, Dickson remembers one
oi the party—Sir Bernard Ffeyberg, then
efaie 1 ’ ai w wh ? hdpec l to tum the sod of the
found thf^? 1S tipie ’ a f ter y ea rs, Dickson
found the grave in a small clearing past a grove
dive wi h CeS h near its head, an ancient
olive with branches wind-swept and weeo-
tefed° Ve ° f the tombstone. Shel-
rees ’ tl pea “ ful ’, the wind whispering in the
tmlv’ f-Vnr! d °T- th r® V ? lley t 0 *6 SC3, it is
ever England ” * fidd &at is for
n J*f ed T ln Sydney > one of Australia’s
Fnrpm and fi A neSt medicos > Joseph
HoS*' r A h Braduate fro m Guy’s
™ pdal ; London, in 1873, he shipped
similar sbanti war, performed a
E lai ,f. ce , m T a Maoriland migrant
Coast(NSW? LlSmo f e ’ on the North
uoast (N.S.W.), went abroad to specialise
and obstetr ics under a
tamed Berlin surgeon (Augustus Martin)
and returned to Sydney, where he was
the first medico to confine his practice to
those subjects, and where his association
with Royal Prince Alfred Hospital lasted
66 years. As well, he lectured in women’s
diseases at Sydney University, helped to
found the Royal Australasian College of
Surgeons and was one of the first in the
State to advocate cremation. Retirement
took him on the land, from his successful
working of which R.P.A. last year
benefited to the tune of a £20,000 gift to
create fellowships in gynaecology, and to
improve the teaching facilities of the de-
partment he originated. Kindly and fear-
lessly honest, he was nearly 100 at the end-
“Taswegian”; A nice compliment was
paid an Australian by James Francis
Dwyer, whose autobiography, Leg-Irons
on Wings, Red Paged B. 18/l/’5O, is
dedicated to Edmund Morris Miller, Pro-
fessor of Psychology and Philosophy at
the University of Tasmania. In a letter
to Hobart “Mercury” Dwyer explained
that Miller’s letters to him helped him
greatly during his trouble, and that he
owes the writing of his book to the prof.’s
urging. He has never met Miller, but
judges him from his letters to be “the
kindest and most modest man in all Aus-
tralia.”
Back to his old stamping-ground, this
time as judge pf the New Guinea Supreme
Court, Andrew Kelly, who for nine
years from 1930 was one of Rabaul’s
sought-after barristers. Born in Bunda-
berg, he served articles there, was
admitted to practice in 1927, legalised in
Brisbane, then shifted to Rabaul, where
most of the notable legal issues came his
way. A flight-lieutenant in the war-time
R.A.A.F. for a year, he then took over
Assistant-Controller of New Manufac-
tures in the D.W.0.1. in Melbourne.
Headquartered in Moresby, the new
judge’s .circuit will embrace both New
Guinea and Papua.
One of Maoriland’s new knights, John
Robert McKenzie (here presented by Hill),
as well as establishing a chain of depart-
ment stores over there, has a strong
link or two with Australia. Born at
Yarrawalla (Vic.), 73 years ago, he was
schooled in Melbourne and is now chair-
man of directors of J. C. Williamson’s,
When Oom Paul tossed his hat into the
KNIGHT PHILANTHROPIST.
ring half a century ago McKenzie joined
the Third Victorian Bushmen’s Con-
tingent and sailed to help toss it back
again. A front-rank philanthropist,
he founded the £lOO,OOO McKenzie
Charitable Trust for returned Kiwis, the
£lO,OOO Youth Education Fund, and two
Scholarships, these last in memory of his
son Don, killed on active service in
Hitler’s war. Spare-time passion—breed-
ing trotters.
When publisher Michael Joseph hit Sydney
he offered The Bulletin an interview provided
the paper offered him armor-plated protection
against the enthusiastic shafts of local cat-
lovers. A Melbourne paper headline he pro-
duced explained why: “Publisher here,” it
informed the feline-fanciers, “to meet authors
and cats.” It was enough, groaned the
president of the British Siamese Cat Society.
Prior has ensured there is one cat he won’t get
away from. Present scribe had often wondered,
with a large proportion of Navy men, whether
C. S. Forester (of Hornblower legend), whose
The Ship was possibly the finest piece of naval-
action chronicling to come out of the late war,
MICHAEL JOSEPH, WITH FRIEND.
had served in the Navy. “No,” supplied his
publisher. “Nor in any other Service. His
material for that book (it was technically fault-
less) was culled from talking to cruiser
Penelope’s complement while the ship was
refitting in dry-dock.” Once Joseph had to be
photographed for publicity. On learning his
trade the cameraman ejaculated: “Just the
man I want! I have a writing friend who’s a
genius!” Helpless under the arclights’ glare,
Joseph surrendered —and after reading two
chapters of the genius’s MS. immediately com-
missioned' him to write the rest, So How
Green Was My Valley was born, reproduced
itself 200,000 times and was filmed. Against
his colleagues’ advice on war-books, Joseph
backed Guy Gibson’s Enemy Coast Ahead and
the recent Green Beret by Hilary St. George
Saunders, which already has nudged the 50,000-
mark. A twp-war soldier, Joseph saw the first
tanks grind into action at Flers in 1916 and
in 1940 joined the Royal West Kent Regiment,
a unit formed after Dunkirk. Of present Aus-
tralian writing Joseph was cautiously commen-
datory—of David Campbell, verse and short-
story contributor to The Bulletin, he was
unreservedly enthusiastic.
Retired after serving every Maoriland
High Commissioner in London as private
secretary for 37 years, Charles Albert
.Knowles, C.B.E. Also, with a couple of
exceptions, he attended every session of
the League of Nations while Maoriland
was a member.
One of Britain’s most brilliant back-
room boys—and that means a good deal
—whose dream is to see bridges, trains,
cars and ships constructed of a new white,
incredibly strong and rustless metal called
titanium. Professor John Philip Rpxter,
22 years with 1.C.1., is now Professor of
Chemical Engineering at Sydney’s new
University of Technology. Among the
six most plentiful of earth’s natural ele-
ments, titanium is in about the same stage
as aluminium was 60 or 70 years ago,
when scientists were striving to produce
it wholesale. Lofty and well-knit, with
a ready grin and characteristically modest,
Baxter was the man who took a team of
scientists across to Oak Ridge in 1944,
when the Americans were temporarily
balked by the reluctance of two species
of uranium to separate and lend them-
selves to the production of the Hiroshima
holocaust. In addition to that little job,
the professor was responsible for the war-
time production of the insecticide gam-
mexane and the selective weed-killer
methozone, both of which brain-children
are now rated among the farmer’s best
friends. His relief at being free of the
restrictions of top-secret atomic work is
matched by his belief in his new techno-
logical university; the need of a similar
institution in Britain is widely admitted.
Master-butcher William Angliss, who
touched 85 last month in Melbourne,
came to Australia from London 62 years
ago and started business in Carlton. Four
years later he entered the frozen-meat
trade, helped by a fortunate circumstance.
The Westralian goldfields needed fresh
meat, and Angliss experimented with a
trial shipment. Came the Boar War, and
he sent a frozen cargo to England. He
became a veritable meat monarch after
that, with his interests ultimately includ-
ing pretty well everything from silk-mills
to politics—he represented Southern
Province in the Legislative Council—and
irom bricks to dry-docks. For epicures
“is greatest achievement was the William
Angliss Cookery School in North Mel-
bo*fße - 111616 chefs ’ dieticians, chemists
and biologists conspire together to pro-
duce new dishes and train-up students,
Creat quantities of Army babblers were
trained there during the late war.
Some of Australia’s most brilliant men
are connected with the Snowy project,
a u n ° * ben J Marsden Dempster, whose
theodolite has angled that part of the
Alps through which the dams and 27ft.
tunnel to divert the Snowy will run.
Related to the Rev. Samuel Marsden, of
Macquarie’s Sydney and Maoriland,
iJempster won a scholarship from
Berths Guildford Grammar that took
him on to Melbourne ’Varsity and his
surveyor’s licence. Master of Civil En-
gineering and A.M.I.E. as well, he erected
miles of the huge transmission lines from
Yallourn, then was appointed Chief
Bridge Engineer for the Victorian
Country Roads Board. In this post for
15 years from 1927, he put up some solid
monuments to his skill —a massive cement-
bridge reinforced with steel over the
temperamental Snowy, where for the first
time the steel girders were oxywelded ;
the £BO,OOO Punt-road bridge and the
Port Melbourne traffic-bridge, familiar to
overseas arrivals, which netted him the
£5OO offered for the best design. Later
he bridged the deep, tide-swept channel
across to Phillip Island with a suspension-
bridge on the lines of New York’s
Brooklyn. For the last three years of
the war the U.S. Army borrowed his
brains; he built defence works from
Norfolk Island to the Philippines. After
the war Chief Civil Engineer of Works
and Housing, he’s been concerned with
the grading of the Kingsford Smith air-
port, the Centralian rocket-range, a big
water scheme in Westralia and, under the
pen-name “Theo D. Lyte,” penning pars,
for The Bulletin.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 51, William Edward Mc-
Pherson, son of a one-time Premier and
Treasurer of Victoria, who began in his father’s
hardware shop in 1918 and ended chairman of
directors of one of Australia’s largest tool-
manufacturing concerns. A good percentage
of Sydney Harbor Bridge’s 6,000,000 rivets,
some 61b. in weight, are McPherson’s, as
were many of the machine-tools which geared
the Ministry of Munitions to its war-time out-
put volume. One of the prime movers in Aus-
tralia’s making its own basic tools, direc-
tor and founder of several other companies, he
was a generous, modest man, a keen reader and
a spare-time devotee of his private workshop.
In Karachi, at 35, Geoffrey Bridgland, secre-
tary to the Australian High Commissioner in
Pakistan. A B.A. graduate from Adelaide
University in 1935 (M.A. three years later), the
first post in a promising diplomatic career was
secretary to William Glasgow, then High
Commissioner in Canada, Back home in 1943,
he joined the RA.A.F. and did most of his
flying over the Atlantic. He was kept in Lon-
don as Australia’s representative on the War
Crimes Commission, and had barely taken up
his new post before the end.
In Melbourne, at 57, Dr. Cyril Minty, Old
Digger M.C. and m.o, of the Tongan Medical
Service before joining the Repatriation Com-
mission in Sydney in 1925. Shifting to
Queensland as 5.M.0., he had 15 years in that
post before becoming, in 1946, Deputy P.M.O.
for the whole of Australia. At his death he was
awaiting appointment to P.M.O. His son is a
medico • with the radium clinic of Brisbane’s
General Hospital.
At 79, in Brisbane, Thorpe Allen, manager of
Colonial Mutual for 20 of nearly 50 years’ ser-
vice with that firm, and well-known sportsman.
In 1900 he represented his State at cricket.
In Melbourne, Madam Bertha Rossow, the
Bendigo-born soprano who was a leading
singer at the beginning of the century. She
went to England in 1896, became a protegee
of Patti, and sang at Co vent Garden, the
Albert Hall and in most of the opera houses of
Europe. 111-health ended her singing, and she
returned to teaching.


Society
“Sackfair”: In the U.S.A, there is just
one place where a young couple can have
a good heart-to-heart talk —on a dance-
floor. Unless, of course, my Hollywood
is deceiving me. The thing works to a
pattern: Young couple enters cabaret;
kowtowing head-waiter; great show of
removing girl’s wrap and pushing chair
under her ; orchestra starts ; he suggests:
“Shall we dance?” She smiles and stands
up. And for the next five minutes they
stand in one place, swaying their
shoulders, ogling, rubbing cheeks and
talking the kind of gurgling gush that
makes suffering males gnaw pieces out of
their hats. How different it is in Aus-
'And then what did the big bad wolf do, Mr. Smithers?”
tralia! When a young couple have a
yearning for a long, long mag they don’t
go to a night-club; they don’t make
dancing a cloak for their verbosity. No ;
they go to a picture-show and sit in the
seat immediately behind mine—and
don’t stop talking till the final fade-out.
He jje
“R.J.E.”: High up on the list of places
of interest I had marked out to visit
jifren I arrived in Wales last July were
Denbigh Castle and St. Asaph Work-
house. Stanley, the explorer, then John
Rowlands, was born alongside the first,
and he spent nine years of his young life
as an inmate of the second. There was
not even a tablet to commemorate him
at Denbigh, and the only thing at St.
Asaph to show he ever existed was an
entry in the old workhouse register,
which, under the heading of parentage,
had the word “bastard.” I felt like
pulling the place down. Afterwards I
visited the National Library at
Aberystwyth, and I found that there, too,
he had been ignored. The same result
at the National Museum at Cardiff. Yet
when I visited the Muses at Brussels the
first thing that greeted me in the main
entrance hall was a painting of Stanley.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Praising Joan Hammond’s
singing at Albert Hall, the “Times” critic
trotted out an old one when he said:
“Inquire into the birthplace of any lusty
singer nowadays and more often than not
the answer is ‘Australia,’ where climate
and diet seem to work miracles akin to
those of Italy.” The critic may have in-
side information about Miss Hammond’s
diet, but in giving the credit to the Aus-
tralian climate he would have to explain
why Russia, Germany and England have
produced great singers. I would say that
the reason why Australia seems to be able
to produce good singers is because of
Melba, just as it produces batsmen be-
cause of Bradman and people like him.
What does an Australian father think if
he sees his small son dexterously flipping
a ball with a homemade bat in the back-
yard: “By cripes, he might be a Brad-
man!” What does an Australian mother
think if her daughter displays an unusual
capacity to strike high C; “A potential
Melba!” A Polish father who saw his
son knocking a ball about would think
the lad was wasting time which should
be speilt practising the fiddle. There is a
Polish tradition of virtuosi just as there is
an Australian tradition of cricketers and
singers. Who started these traditions
would be difficult to say, but it must have
been individuals like Bradman and Melba
who were so completely focused on what
they were doing that they couldn’t think
of anything else.
“Spasebo”: Nothing has convinced me
of the absolute sincerity of Soviet propa-
ganda so much as the recent suspension
of film director Y, M. Bliokh by the
Ministry of Cinematography. Mr.
Bliokh’s offence was that he faked scenes
in a documentary called “Caspian
Fishers” by showing fishermen hauling
up sturgeon which had been caught
beforehand, “This attempt to create an
impression is impermissible in Russian
documentaries,” says Pravda. A Soviet
film, “Turksib,” which caused a stir in
local Marxist circles some years ago,
depicted the peasantry frantically con-
structing a railway across the desert. The
first Five-Year Plan was in jeopardy, and
they worked like tigers in the sweltering
sun and the duststorms. Despite the
obvious arduousness of their labor and
the terrible conditions, everybody smiled.
The Mongol nomads, male and female,
conscripted in the cause of Soviet self-
“I thought we were moving tomorrow!”
sufficiency, smiled, the foremen smiled,
the engineers smiled and even the camels
staggering under unconscionable burdens
had grins on their faces as broad as they
were long. I apologise for the facetious
comments I made in The Bulletin at
the time. If Mr. Bliokh had been honest
all the sturgeons would have been caught
alive and smiling,
* « ♦ *
“Dee”: It must have been an epochal
moment when the National Capital Plan-
ning and Development Committee
solemnly promulgated that Canberra is
not to have one of the five lakes it hasn’t
got. As it is now 38 years since Burley
Griffin designed the place, 35 since work
began, and not the slightest sign even of
the first lake has made its appearance, the
news is not likely to shatter the peace and
quietness of the capital. Burley Griffin
was confronted with one defect which
mere design could not overcome —that
was the absence of any sizeable waterway
to give dignity, background and contrast
to the city. The Molonglo River, which
runs through the heart of the place, is a
thin, meandering trickle contracted as
often as not into muddy potholes.
Griffin proposed to repair the deficiency
by constructing a series of artificial lakes,
damming and using the inflow of the
Molonglo both to build and control them.
It is the “eastern” lake which has just
had the axe, but as it has never existed
except in blueprints few are likely to
worry about its elimination. Reason given
is that the area which would be covered
by the lake comprises valuable dairying
lands on the river-flat, giving the city an
essential service.
* * * *
“Bo”: The loud-voiced woman in the
surgery of the outer-suburban doctor was
giving the rest of the patients waiting in
the reception-room a respite from glanc-
ing over the five-year-old periodicals.
From her voice booming through the
closed door it appeared that she had
brought her 16-year-old daughter along
to see about her throat. The doctor was
obviously urging her to have the
daughter’s tonsils and adenoids out —■
they should have been taken out years
before, but it wasn’t too late now, and
she would be well advised to have it seen
to without delay. To which the mother
replied: “Well, you can take her tonsils
out, doctor, but you’d better leave the
adenoids in—she wants to be a ‘blues’
singer! ”
« * * *
“Plop”: N. S. Wales Tourist
Minister Arthur said recently he thought
the “Australian way of life” was “re-
flected in the speech of the man in the
street.” He quoted two examples, “Let’s
give it a go,” and “Fair go, mate,” saying
that the first demonstrated the Austra-
lians’ love of sport and his courage while
the second disclosed his “love of freedom
and his championship of the underdog.”
He’s dead right. Once in the shadows about
an Army two-up school I heard a soft
muttering “Let’s give it a go,” and later
discovered its source as I helped to jump
on the two who had come along with a
double-headed penny, and who spoke
volumes on love of freedom and cham-
pionship of the underdog by having cause
to repeat “Fair go, mate,” far into the
night.
“Wusslean”: Yet another instance of
the corruption of a good word through
misuse is the practice of the Press and
the radio of employing the word “guest”
as an adjective. My dictionary lists it
solely as a noun ; as such, the word has
or had, a pleasant flavor of hospitality’
suggesting welcome and entertainment’
even when used in the phrase “paying
guest.” As an adjective, goodness knows
just what the word means ; leading players
in radio “soap operas” are invariably
described as “guest artists,” though
nobody supposes for a moment that they
are reading their lines for the fun of it,
Luncheons are addressed by “guest
speakers” ; congregations listen to “guest
preachers” ; daily papers publish articles
by “guest writers,” who may be visiting
scientists, politicians, artists or jockeys. In
every case the person referred to would
be more accurately described as a casual,
special or temporary employee, and it
would not surprise me, when our postie
goes on holidays, to hear his substitute
referred to as our “guest postman,” or
that the umpteen thousand “temporary”
employees of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment demand to be called “guest
employees,” or that “guest constables
mingled freely with the crowds on race-
days. Perhaps we had better dig up
another term for the stranger within our
gates.
« ♦ * *
“Warrandyte”: My authority on the
Jervis-Jarvis dispute (B. 28/12/ 49)
is Captain Taprell Dorling, R.N. In
sketch of the career of John Jervis (lb)-
1823), Earl of St. Vincent, Admiral
of the Fleet, Dorling states, “The
name is pronounced precisely as spelt,
not as it is often heard, as Jarvis.
According to the Journal of George
Bass, it was during his famous whaleboat
vpyage that he found and explore
Jervis Bay on December 10, 1797, an
named it in honor of St. Vincent, at tha
time in command of the Mediterranean
Fleet.
* * * *
“Evan Gelist”: Being taken with
“Southerner’s” yarn of how two abos
the N.T. were married quite conformao ]
on the sergeant’s first-aid book, he tia'
ing failed to find the Bible (B. 11/1/ ‘
I turned to my own copy of the Goo
Book, feeling that in my many reading
of the same I had somehow missed
part containing the C. of E. niarnag
service. In retelling that chestnut, w
gave “S.” the notion that any marn =
service was to be found in the Bible.
* * * * .
“C. 8.”: Immigration a hundred
ago had its problems, too, according
the “Melbourne Morning Herald’ 01
period. A group of New Australians
grounded at the Immigration Barra j
having refused to accept an oner
service at Brighton in
request “of a respectable person
wanted to engage a domestic serva oD
the wage then current. A salutary
was taught them when 100
girls arrived by the Diadem and r
all available jobs in the city. The w »
Five to 11 pounds per annum.
“X.S”: A Tatt.’s tale with a hag
ending than the example of tne u a
sweep who flew from Sydney to
“substantial prize” and got £2 l
occurred in Melbourne, where an jjce-
ment between a motorist and a P
man over a parking offence
abruptly when the citizen an f r v . m£ i it
for the copper’s number and 1 .
was the same as his old regu ll
number in the First World War-
mony resulted from the coinciden i
the pair decided to take sharesin
It turned up teumpi msi a "■>'
NURSERY NIGHTMARE.
N.S.W.
“The tritium, or hydrogen, bomb being made in
the United States is also understood in Russia, and
■will take a considerable time to perfect.’' 1
Rub-a-dub-dub,
Three men in a tub.
The two you would know
Were Truman and Joe.
Said Truman to Joe,
“I’ll blow and I’ll blow,
I’ll huff and I’ll puff
At this tritium stuff
Till I blow your house down
With the rest of the town.”
Said Joe, “Mr. Truman,
That’s really inhuman;
I’m just an old buffer,
But not a bad puffer—
You’ll go to Elysium
When I explode tritium
And blow your house down
With the rest of the town.”
The third man then spoke:
“I’ll be out of the joke—•
I don’t want to grouse,
But I haven’t a house,
So you can’t blow it down
With the rest of the town.”
Said Truman and Joe,
“Please don’t take on so;
The tritium bomb
Takes a long time to come;
By then you’ll discover
The home-shortage over;
You’ll have a nice house,
You poor little louse,
For us to blow down
With the rest of the town.”
SWILLIAM.


TBS' '?“f
Facts you should know in the
interests of your Estate & your Dependants ...
The informative booklet, “Trust Estates and Their Management,”
has been compiled to acquaint you with the facts and problems
connected with choosing your Executor and Trustee. This is a
matter which every prudent man must consider at some time. It
is a decision which vitally affects the welfare of your dependants,
and is therefore one about which every person should be fully
informed.
Write to-day for your copy of this free booklet ... or call and
discuss the matter personally with one of our Executive Officers.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M.,
F.R~A.CJS. J. R. Faviell
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. C, N. P. Whittle
Sub. Manager: S. U. White
Secretary: F, R, Garland
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LID.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
PT.12016
“B. A. Ker”; Whenever I read of men
who can recite a poem while writing
different items with each hand, I think of
old Charlie; although his gift applied to
hearing. His ancient, battered wireless
had lost its knobs, its tone, its selectivity
—practically everything except a volume
that would have out-roared the Bull of
Bashan; but the old chap always had
the earbasher going at full blast, four or
five stations fighting it out between them.
In the midst of entertaining his distracted
visitors with a general summing-up of
world affairs or the quantity of rabbits in
the back paddock he would suddenly
break in with: “That’s a catchy tune,
ain’t it?” or chuckle in his whiskers as
from somewhere in that jungle of sound
his amazing ears had picked out a joke.
A radio salesman called and Charlie
allowed a new set to be installed —on
probation. It was a super-mellow job;
everybody who visited him stressed the
point. The salesman was supremely con-
fident. Charlie smiled and said nothing.
A fortnight later I called on the old
bachelor. An Irish stew of sound met me
halfway up the paddock. “Then you
didn’t buy that new wireless?” I asked.
“No.” Charlie grunted his disgust.
Bloomin’ thing ’ud only get one station
at a time—a feller had to keep twiddlin’
the knobs round to find out if he was
missin’ anythin’ any good.”
* * * *
Mabsout”: As learned as the date-
pad genius (B. 11/1 / ’5O) is the chooser of
the quotations on the backs of the boxes
of a certain brand of matches. This
scholar possibly hoped that other manu-
facturers would adopt the idea and that
it would encourage children to collect the
backs of boxes instead of their brands
and so develop in them a thirst for the
best in literature. Doubtless he now feels
as he sees his work thrown away with
the rubbish that he has labored in vain.
But he is not altogether unappreciated.
Take old Andy’s case, Andy, a silent,
pondering pipe-smoker, found on one box
an ancient Egyptian proverb : “Know-
ledge does not enter the head through the
open mouth.” After that, whenever ex-
perts on politics, sport and the hydrogen-
bomb were making the air vibrate dizzily
m the factory cafeteria, Andy would push
ms matchbox, back uppermost, over to
them. It seldom failed to modify their
voices and views. The matchbox became
old and greasy in Andy’s overalls —he
always put the matches from a new box
into it—but it enabled him and a few
similarly contemplative mates to eat
peacefully,
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: A high-placed Melbourne
ecclesiastic has been giving his opinion on
the proposal of an English vicar to hold
an exorcising service to expel a ghost
from an empty house in England. He
said that exorcism went out at the time
of the Reformation, and there is a canon
law which forbids a priest to exorcise
without the permission of his bishop. A
bishop once exorcised the evil spirits out
of the were-tigers of Malacca who were
preying on henroosts and human beings,
but he was unacquainted with native folk-
lore. A were-tiger was a respectable
citizen who left his wife’s side at night,
and, going into the jungle, divested him-
self of his clothing, and after uttering the
requisite incantations took seven leaps on
all fours and at the seventh turned into
a tiger. At daybreak he returned and
resumed his human shape and his cloth-
ing. All you had to do was to find the
"Tea's ready!"
"Tea' s ready!"
clothing and impound it, and the poor
were-tiger hadn’t anywhere to go to. The
bishop didn’t know this, and his exorcising,
as recorded in native annals, was an utter
failure.
* * * *
“Bump”: Sensational prices have been
given for houses in Victoria recently, but
there was an exception when a comfort-
able 90-year-old stone cottage was put up
for auction and the best bid was £5O. It
was situated inside the White Hills
cemetery at Bendigo, and had been the
residence of the sexton.
* * * *
“Sprittie”: The eight Queenscliff
fishermen who, when the odds were 100
to one against according to the official
forecast, gambled £llOO on salvaging the
cargo and fittings of the freighter Time,
wrecked last August at the entrance to
Port Phillip, got back over 30 times their
money. Experts said that the vessel would
be swept into the Rip in a few days. She
is now more firmly wedged into the reef
than ever, and has even given her own
name to that bit of the Victorian coast-
line. The fishermen were also experts,
and backed their fancy. Working 14
hours a day for four months, they
stripped the hull, removed the sugar, hides
and timber in the hull and carried it to
the wharf at Queenscliff in their shark-
boats. The hulk is still being cut up for
scrap steel at £3 a ton by two of the
syndicate who bought the rights from
their partners. One of the proceeds of
the gamble is Tom Warren’s Hotel at
Horsham.
» * * a
“Cauboy”: It wasn’t only in saying that
alcohol increases the desire but takes
away from the performance that Shak-
speare showed his keen observation (B.
11/1/ ’5O). He also said “There is nothing
either good or bad, but thinking makes it
so,” which might almost be said to have
anticipated Freud’s theory of the un-
conscious. Shakspeare’s plays are packed
with thought of this sort, and the thing
that irritated me about that “Macbeth”
broadcast was the delivery of the actors.
It made you think not of what was said,
but how it was said; it would have been
much better if the actors had read their
lines with no emotion whatsoever.
* * * *
“Flathead”: There is a gadget on the
market which may help “Sackville St.”
curb his dog’s addiction to snail-bait (B.
1/2/’5O). The apparatus consists of a
spike which passes through two tin
plates, the upper one to act as an umbrella
to shield from rain-damage the bait,
which rests in the smaller plate some two
inches below. The idea seems to be that
with one of these neat enamelled dispen-
saries in the centre of your plot you will
do away with the unsightliness of
numerous small heaps of snail-bait spread
across the garden. The corpses, too,
will be centrally situated. My neighbor
claims that once his snails learned to
scramble over into the tray the thing
was a vast success. Modified, with some
light bars down the sides and an entrance
and exit, clearly marked, and large enough
only for a snail, the thing would be
surely dog-proof.
* * * *
“Loc”: “Did the policemen win?”
asked a magistrate in a Sydney court on
hearing evidence that two plainclothes-
men, disguised in beach-shirts, had
entered a sports-club and played the
poker-machines, receiving a pay-out in
sixpences and later charging the owner
with being the keeper of a common
gaming-house. The sergeant giving evi-
dence replied, somewhat wistfully, “They
won at first, but then they lost, and some
of the departmental money as well.”
* * * *
“F.S.”: Samuel Butler wrote an
elaborate thesis to prove that the
“Odyssey” was written by a woman. The
point doesn’t seem to have much more
importance than the question as to
whether Bacon wrote Shakspeare. If
Bacon wrote Shakspeare’s plays he must
have been identical with Shakspeare or
he could not have written the plays, and
if Samuel’s woman wrote Homer she
must have been identical with Homer.
His or her work remains, however, and
Hollywood has taken it under its wing,
and the film is to be shot on the shores
of the Adriatic with Greta Garbo,
Katharine Hepburn, Greer Garson and
Joan Fontaine in the roles of goddesses
and heroines. A grand opportunity right
in Hollywood’s line is presented by
Odysseus’s return to Ithaca to find his wife
Penelope plagued by 100 suitors, estab-
lished in the royal palace. He slew the
lot. In the usual Hollywood film one
jealous husband and one cuckold-maker
is the ration.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: To help itself out of its
job of replanning Melbourne, the Board
of Works is seeking here and overseas a
chief planner at a salary of £4OOO. A
move was made to reduce the figure to
£l5OO, which is what is paid Mr. A. S.
Gawler, of the Town and Country
Planning Association, but it was defeated.
But is any town-planner worth £4000?
Town-planning has become so stereotyped
that every model suburb the world over,
even in Russia, seems to be the same as
any other, and any architect who has
read the textbooks can draw you a plan
which will be just the same as the plan
drawn up by some authority in New
York or London, just as he can draw you
plans for a 10- or 20-story building or
a factory for any purpose whatsoever.
The only ingredient lacking is the
aesthetic; and the model suburbs of
Russia are just as uniform and ugly as
those of U.S. or Britain.
* * * *
“Zake”: The girl ticket-checkers on
the barriers at Wynyard Station had
apparently run out of conversation and
decided to look at some tickets for a
change. An argument developed with a
middle-aged man who couldn’t produce
his ticket after prolonged search. After
a heated exchange over his refusal to
pay he stepped back and hauled off his
coat. The fears that he unchivalrously
intended to stoush his tormentors, how-
ever, were quickly dissipated as he traced
the chain, one end of which was fastened
to a trouser-button, to the key on the
other end of it, which was caught in his
braces between his shoulder-blades. A
thing like that must strengthen the argu-
ments of the school of male dressers
which meticulously removes the braces
completely each night. But 99 p.c. of
men belong to the other school of thought
which lazily slips them over the shoulders.
* * * *
“8.P.”: That cove (B. 25/1/’5O) who
knew of only two smoking-songs—and
both German —ought to be a good mark
for a smart radio salesman. Hasn’t he
heard that classic of the suburban wire-
less cacophony “Smoke, Smoke, Smoke
That Cigarette”?
* * * *
“Melbn”: A new translation of the
Bible doesn’t raise half the uproar stirred
up by an attempt to tamper with the
sacred text of a Gilsullivan opera. Tradi-
tionalists were horrified on opening their
programmes at the first night of the
“Yeomen” at His Majesty’s, Melbourne,
to find that instead of the usual division
into two acts there were three, or rather,
Act I was divided into Scene I, Phoebe’s
Apartment, and Scene 11, Tower Green.
With their lips curled into a snarl of con-
tempt and indignation, and with their
hands clutching the armrests, tradition-
alists watched the curtain go down on
Phoebe’s apartment and waited for it to
go up on the impious interpolation. To ;
their surprise, rage and disappointment it
went up on Act 11. Tradition was vindi-
cated and revolution was outed, but no
managerial explanation came from the
extraordinary proceeding and nobody
knows whether it was a practical joke, a
printer’s error or a sudden change of
mind on the part of the producer.
COMPLAINT DISMISSED.
“A scientist in a radio talk said that a character-
istic of steel is that sometimes it gets ‘tired.’ ”
Only the disbeliever
Will deny the butcher’s cleaver
Or the radio-receiver
Suffer greatly from ennui.
Only last Friday morning
I distinctly heard an awning
Stretching away and yawning—
Which is natural, you’ll agree.
Full many a time, confronted
With the dial whose toughness blunted
Its edge, the razor’s grunted,
Dog-tired and pretty sore.
Contracting and expanding
With cold and heat, the branding-
irons may be heard demanding
The right to have a snore.
The housewife’s oft complaining
Rather volubly, pertaining
To the jobs she claims are chaining
Her too often to the house;
That there’s drudgery in cleaning,
Cooking, washing and machining—■
Though the term has little meaning
To her unobservant spouse.
When she’s had a day of baking,
Ironing clothes and overtaking
Various chores she’ll be “all aching
From her feet right to her head.”
To that favorite expression
She will add the frank confession
That she’s thankful for possession
Of a comfortable bed.
This perpetual affliction
Finds no jot of contradiction
From the husband who of friction
Doesn’t wish to be accused.
Still, without the slightest fear he
Could advance the simple theory
That she’d scarcely be more weary
Than the vacuum she had used.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Colonial Cove”; Let us have a
little of the latent poetry or symbolism
which lay in his mind when the abo.
selected his place-names. For instance,
that huge excavation in the Weld
ECHO
POINT
“ Hoi —Hoi —Hoi —Hoi!” “Hoi
to you!”
Ranges, Murchison district (W.A.), from
which for numberless generations the
blacks had dug red ochre, or wilgie, for
decorative and ceremonial purposes, was
called by them Wilgie Mia, mia mean-
ing mine or hole that is dug. When the
white man came to much the same
district and found copper the natives
dubbed it Money Mia, connecting the
copper metal with the metal of the coins
with which they were most familiar.
Again, east from Perth lies the
pleasant town of Toodyay, in a
valley noted early for its
verdant beauty. Toodyay, the
nearest white rendering to be
got, meant in the abo. lingo just
that: valley of beauty, or lovely
place. Abo. women of the
same region quite often bore
the name of Toodyeep, which
means lovely lady; for even
among those dusky sisters there
were degrees of pulchritude.
* * *
“Mrs. P.”; I’d never previ-
ously pondered on the reason
for potplants on back verandas
of country homes, but now I
know. We had been settling-in
in the new district for just two
days when the farmer from up
the creek dropped in. “Brought
y’ some cuttings, missus,” he
said. “Nothin’ bin growin’ here
for some time.” My pleasure
apparently surprised him. “Y*
gotta have a coupla potplants in
the back, veranda,” he protested.
“Can’t be always runnin’ out
t’ the paddick t’ empty the tea-
pot ! ”
* H= *
“Solitude” : Seventyfiver,
reaching town with the mob,
picked up a message to hold
the bailies on the slopes there
for a few days. The grazing
was good, water close in and the
old bloke was finding the job
particularly easy. Two days
slipped by, and on the morning
of the third he presented himself at the
local store. “George, ’a’ y’ got any hob-
nails?” he inquired weightily. The store
bloke scratched his head. “What sort of
hobnails?” “T’ put in me boots, o’
course,” scowled Seventyfiver. “Good big
’uns.” The bloke strolled thoughtfully
down the store, paused, then began to dig
under a pile of bundles. He unearthed
half a dozen empty boxes, spilt a tin of
rivets, and eventually arrived back with a
packet of nails. Seventyfiver eyed them
mournfully. “Not big enough, George,” he
lamented. “Not near big enough. Never
stop a man slippin’, them wouldn’t.”
“Well, you won’t get any bigger,” declared
the storeman. “That’s the biggest they
make.” Seventyfiver still shook his head.
“It’s the country round here does it,” he
explained. “And everythin’ bein’ so dry.
Cheaper t’ buy hobnails, if y’ ask me.
Man starts off t’ turn the stragglers back
an’ he slips. Ground’s dry, grass’s sun-
baked, an’ he takes a coupler steps up
the rise an’ slips some more. Every-
where, an’ all the time he slips, till it
ain’t long an’ he finds he’s slipped back
t’ the flamin’ pub again!”
“Bogaduck” on Black Brother’s origin:
For years I’ve been listening to arguments
as to whether our abos comprised one race or
two; now scientists aver there were three. The
first human beings to enter Australia came
from south-east Asia between 20,000 and 50,000
years ago. They were Negritos: short, and
with tightly-curled hair. They migrated when
the last Ice Age had locked so much water
up in the huge icecaps that ocean levels were
more than 200 feet lower than they are today.
As a result, straits which are wide today were
then narrow, island-dotted channels, easily
crossed on rafts, but sufficient to stop monkeys,
tigers, elephants and deer from following the
Negritos, who in time moved right down the
continent and crossed the island-, shoal- and
reef-studded Bass Strait to Tasmania. At one
time it was believed that the Tasmanians
reached their island home by drifting from
New Caledonia in canoes, but the accepted
Negrito theory knocks that out. Thousands
of years later another race entered Australia
in the same way; they were the Murrayian
tribes, who settled along the Murray River and
adjacent territories. Some of these crossed to
Tasmania and slightly modified the original
Negrito strain by intermarrying. Racially, these
Murrayians are not a true brown-skinned race
at all, being an “Archaic white,” which was
an early offshoot of that same Caucasian
family of races to which we belong; their
cousins are the Ainu of Japan. Finally, the
Carpentarians entered Australia, and settled
right across the northern portion; they are a
true brown-skinned race, akin to the Veddah
of Ceylon, and their racial strain is marked in
the peoples of southern India. They brought
with them the spear-thrower, the boomerang
and the dingo, a domesticated strain of the
wolf-dog of northern India. Both they and the
Murrayians exterminated or absorbed the
Negrito, except in a few outlyingareas.
“Oomalas” (New Britain, T.N.G.):
From my lounge I have been watching
the monthly run of Inanga (whitebait),
Never does the pattern vary. The
presence of the vanguard is denoted by
flocks of screaming seabirds, wheeling
and diving as they feed on the compact
mass of fish as it makes its way slowly
towards the river. Very few get far up-
stream, for hundreds of kanakas with
small nets scoop up millions. Twelve
hours later the sea is black with the main
body of fish, attended by thousands of
gulls, terns, noddies and fish-hawks above
and all varieties of fish and sharks below,
Whilst trevalli and other fish devqur
millions of whitebait, sharks dine hand-
“ You’ll have to cut out the golf.”
somely on the larger fish. It is then that
the graceful frigate-birds arrive to pirate
the larger fish from the annoyed and pro-
testing gulls. With darkness the birds
depart, but the underwater feast goes on.
At dawn back come the birds to resume
their feeding. The main body occupies
two days to enter the river. As it tapers
off the rearguard meet the same relentless
enemies. Native-labor houses reek as
fish is on the menu for weeks, for we
smoke huge quantities. The puzzling
point about it is that although there are
two rivers, two miles apart, it is only
into one that the organised run goes.
The stragglers, those cut off by large fish,
invariably make for the other river. The
one that attracts the main body runs
through mineral country (ironstone
mainly) whilst the other cuts both lime-
stone and mineral. Maybe there’s a con-
nection.
* * * *
“Old Bushman”: Never knew kanga-
roos suffered from “coast” disease until,
walking through the tussocky grass on
the plateau between the lighthouse and
Oberon Bay, on Wilson’s Promontory, a
grey ’roo about 4ft. 6in. high came hop-
ping down the foot-track towards me. I
stepped aside and the animal barged into
my mate behind, who, to protect himself,
knocked the hopper over. It seemed
decrepit and nearly blind; then we
noticed that other ’roos didn’t see us
till a few yards off. A fisherman at
Sealers’ Cove told us that most of the
older Toos on “The Prom,” though mud-
fat, were “coasty” and often half-blind
and deaf.
* * * *
“Ex-R.S.M.”; Native races, of course,
other than our own abos, had the
boomerang, including early Egyptians and
the Indians in the south-west of the
U.S.A., but their weapons were all of the
killing type —the returning form is a
purely Australian invention which appears
to have originated along the Murray. In
that area it was something more than a
toy. The Murray abos caught wild
ducks by means of well-organised hunts ;
where a lagoon or backwater narrowed
with tall timber on both banks, men
took up positions with a large net lying
flat across the water. A little higher up
the stream men were hidden to use return-
ing boomerangs, and the main body of the
hunters went off to drive the ducks to-
wards the nets. As a flock drew level
with the boomerang-throwers they flung
their missiles, at the same time imitating
the shrill cry of the duck-hawk. Seeing
something soar above them and hearing
the sound which they dreaded, the terri-
fied ducks would dive close to the water,
bunch into a tight formation and head
for the gap in the trees where, at the
right instant, the hidden hunters svvun«
the net , upright, often trapping enough
ducks to give the whole tribe a blow-out
The returning-type boomerangs made the
operation quite an economical one
* * * *
“Ted the Taipan”: Slithered into the
local film-house the other day to take a
look at the Australian production “Sons
of Matthew,” filming of which took place
in South Queensland. We ophidians arc
reluctantly compelled to hiss collectively
at an otherwise satisfactory picture simply
because of the omission of our tribe
from the list of dangers faced by ardent
pioneers. The country conquered by the
O’Riordans abounds with relatives of
mine—carpets, blacks, browns, tigers and
that sissy the green- or whip-snake— and
I don’t doubt that a movie director
wouldn’t hesitate to move the habitat of
that muscle-man of Australian snakes
the North Queensland python to the
fastness of the southern jungle for the
sole purpose of twining his coils about
the shapely form of the leading lady,
thus providing a situation in which the
hero is able to display his usual ability
under such circumstances. Imagine the
gasps of awe by folks south of the border
and overseas at such goings on— and the
shouts of derision by the locals when
they saw the spectacle! No on
second thoughts I think it just as well
no snakes were introduced; the actors
wore no guns, and attempting to kill a
snake with a stick in a movie would be
just too unromantic.
“Carnal”: Big Frank, the ex-Lithuan-
ian, was on the falling job with Little
Frank, same nationality, and they were
knocking down pretty good money on
contract —and earning it, too. when
Little Frank dropped an axe on his fo°
and was sent to hospital for a Sped an
Australian went as partner with big
Frank. When handing over the cheque
on payday the forester remarked
much this week, Frank. Must be y° u [
new mate.” Frank shrugged
shoulders. “Not very bad,” he sa |_
“Before he come every day, and after n
go, I make twenty pounds cutting Post-
* * * *
“Spoke”: Enter for the anachronism
stakes G. Lorimer, of Dixon’s Creek, 0
of the last six bullockies in the Cabba.
State. It was said of a New Austral' ,
who had made herself conversant wi-
the literature on the subject that
once called her children inside when 5
saw “Pop” Lorimer approaching, f
was unnecessary, because Lon
doesn’t use the traditional vocabu
when snigging logs out of a forest,
addresses his team in sign languag
whispers. t
“Lower Tops’l”: While hauling
lines in a flat calm to the southwar
Discovery Bay (Vic.), Charlie Freck r en !
a well-known fisherman of Portlan >
countered tens of thousands of
flying from the south, a flight of dr
flies and swarms of flies —all 12 nn
shore. The flies hovered about the
in millions, making work impossibl ,
a storm broke. In more than 4u y .
fishing the Southern ocean Frederic
never known a similar occurrence*
BALLARAT BEDROOM.
How well do I remember that first bedroom of
my own,
In summertime an oven, and in winter cold
as stone;
My mother helped me paper it, with paste of
fiome-made brand—
And every sheet was wrinkled like a washer-
woman’s hand!
1 hacked the bookshelves with a saw from
slabs of flooring-pine,
And nailed them by the window, just a trifle
out of line;
I’d a shiny cedar washstand, with a toilet-set
of delf,
A candle and a candlestick for reading to
myself.
I knew ’twas time for slumber when upon my
ear there stole
My collie’s Jap-lap-lapping from the chickens’
water-bowl;
He came to drink at midnight, and the sound
was like a spell
To show me he was watchful, and was signalling
“All’s well!”
Then the roosters in the fowlhouse flapped and
crowed, while far away
Rival birds took up the challenge; and their
clarions seemed to say
Though they were held in barracks in their
wooden citadels
I need not fear the darkness: they would be
my sentinels.
Then the rain might come to soothe me, sighing
on the shingle roof,
Leaving stains upon the ceiling where it wasn’t
waterproof;
And I knew just why it wasn’t: once, in
clambering about
As I mounted to the ridgepole, I had kicked
some shingles out.
But a wondrous prospect opened, and it seemed
to me that then
I was company for Cortes on his peak in
Darien; •
Though I gazed not on an ocean, blue against
the skyline’s sweep
Brooded veritable mountains, Buninyong and
Warrenheip.
Though I’ve slept in many a bedroom more
luxurious than that,
I have oft applied the lesson which I learned
at Ballarat,
With my mind upon the rooftree, but my body
snugly curled,
“What,” I thought, “are broken shingles?
Climb, and you will see the world!”
ENGLAND.
GUY INNES.


BEE ON THE WINDOWPANE.
Hark to his booming, baritone buzz, ,
He makes the same sound that an aeroplane
Fold d up your handkerchief, capture and fold
him, i
Beware of his tail, delicately hold him,
His baritone soars to a furious soprano,
High as the upperamst notes of the Piano. _
There, he goes free —is he glad? Is he grateful?
Why, no, he thinks the whole episode hateful.
He knows not what barred him, he knows not
who freed him,
Nor why such annoyance was basely decreed
He bustles off, cursing, swearing, blaspheming,
How to make up for his lost hour scheming . . .
So here we are, faced with a pane of clear
glass> .
We can see through, but see not, and never can
pass, . .
Reality’s there, all clear to our vision,
It mocks us, defying our fierce inquisition;
In spite of our keen and unceasing endeavors
Discloses no secret, no message delivers;
Its nature is known to no prophet or pundit
And when kindly death comes to thrust us
beyond it ,
Instead of deep gratitude, joy and contentment,
We have nothing to offer but fear and resent-
ment.
NZ . Arnold Wall.
* * * *
“Blime”; Sunday morning, and Ted
leaned dolefully against a veranda-post.
“Cornin’ round f’r a game?” Dan ambled
round the corner with a grin. “Feel like
it’s me lucky day,” he added. “Didn’t y’
hear the John’s got a couple o’ blokes
up?” groused Ted. “Betcha they’re goin’
t’ break up the school.” “Yair, but it’s
me lucky day, I tell y’,” persisted Dan
“Man can’t buck his luck, can he? l
C’mon.” The pair made their way up a
lane behind the pub, slipped through a
gate, and came on a good ring of blokes
watching the flight of a couple of pennies.
In the centre was about four pounds.
Dan searched his pockets, dug up a lonely
two-bob and risked half of it. There was
a disgusted growl from Ted as it was
lost. Dan glanced at the centre, and con-
fidently put in his other shilling. The
pennies rose, the mob surged forward,
then suddenly there was a rush and an
excited yell of “Police!” Blokes went
everywhere. Ted clawed his way through
a hedge, skirted the stables, and was half-
way over O’Grady’s back fence when
Dan’s whisper came right behind. “Keep
goin’, an’ step on it.” Ted stepped. He
splashed through the creek, crawled
through a blackberry-patch, dashed
down half a mile of flat, and ended in the
peace of the cemetery. “Y-you an’ y’r
flamin’ luck,” he managed disgustedly,
dropping exhausted behind a tombstone.
“T°° right,” Dan was still grinning.
There she is,” he chuckled, and opened
his fist to disclose the four quid.
“Bo”: Nobody in the little township
could remember when old Ben Duffield
started coming in every Tuesday to
Grumblong, but he never missed, hail,
hell or landslide. Somebody recalled that
their old man had said it was a natural
carryover from the days when he came
in to see the mail-coaches. Ben’s routine
never varied. He’d ride his horse up
the hamlet’s only street, yarn with any-
one he happened to meet until the weekly
tram was due on the single line that
served Grumblong; then he’d drape
himself over the level-crossing gate until
the “mixed” puffed slowly to a stop at
the siding. After it had clanked slowly
on its way to Granite Gap he would
mount and make straight back to his
little show in the hills about eight miles
out of town. Someone asked him one
the. reason for his weekly visit to
the station,” which was half a mile from
the township. “Well,” replied Ben, a
taraway look in his faded eyes. “Often
read about train-smashes but I never seen
one yet—y’ never know y’r luck /”
“Shamuseen” again:—■
H.A.L.” (B. 18/1 /’5O) assumes that the
passage of germs between native and alien races
is one-way traffic, with the former always on
the lethal end. Many malarial whites would
disagree. Did the white man take elephantiasis
.| Ut hAf r / ca or blackwater fever to Papua?
And is H.A.L.” sure as to where the virus
ot amoebic dysentery was isolated? In regard
to store-clothes I cite the late Sir Hubert
Murray s proscription of the shirt among
Papuan natives, an interdict not taken without
the evidence of medical statistics. Whitefeller
tucker has in one generation changed the Torres
Straits island-population from a race that knew
not toothache till senility to one in which tho
gubmmt dentist finds plenty of cavities to
.hA n his regular patrols. This is an easily-
visible indication, but there is a more reliable
gauge in the medical statistics of 1935, when
the skin-diving boys of the communal M.O.P.
and trochus fleets staged a comic-opera strike
whh a rigid boycott of the whitefeller tucker
in the gubmint” store. This necessitated a
re t ur P to the produce of the tribal gardens,
which had for long been in semi-disuse. A
sharply-dropping curve of disease-incidence
during, and some months after, the strike was
recorded. _ Whilst not decrying the work of
medical missionaries, I have observed that they
meet most of their success when they direct
their energies against the Europeanisation of
the native.
* * * *
“Colebrook”: “Taswegian’s” mention
(B. 11/1/ ’5O) of Wihareja as a Tasmanian
abo.-name prompts me to the remark that
that sheep-anchcattl'e run between the
Great Lake road and Waddamana—at
whic . h !a « er P la “ the Hydroelectric Com-
mission has a power-station—was at one
time owned by Bisdee Bros. I worked
at a near-by place called Miena, whence
the dam runs across the Great T ake
ru “ s across me ureat Hake
(southern end) at a point where it flows
into the Shannon River. I was always
under the impression that Wihareja was
a coined na ™ composed o£ the initial
and second letters of the Christian names
“Not bad. But he doesn't LOOK like a fly.”
f our members of the Bisdee family—
't „ , T , Tr V
William, Harry, Reg and Jack. Mrs. K.
B ' Keatin S> who kept the Castle Hotel at
Bothwell on the road to the Great Lake.
con fi rms this. Incidentally, Jack Bisdee
and Guy Wylie, both old boys of
H utc lfi ns School, Hobart, each won the
V.C. in the South African War.
* * * *
“Diba Tan” (Papua): Queer the way
our brown brother will insist on wearing
as man Y clothes as he can beg, borrow or
steal, whilst for the white man in this
Turkish-bath atmosphere a pair of
abbreviated khaki shorts with shoes or
sandals is the sartorial ideal. The Papuan
now describes Thursday Island as the
place whereall men wear trousers. The
Islanders of those parts, about the laziest
people on earth, would sooner die a
horrible death than promenade the streets
of TL without a P air of heav y
doth trousers, which they take off only
when the material disintegrates. In Papua
the Ration forbidding a native to wear
dothes on the upper part of the body has
now become a dead-letter. From a
healJh point of view > disastrous, for
“Short front and sides, please
a shirt becomes a communal garment and
so liable to infect all its wearers with
skin - diseases; also, the cause of
pneumonia when not changed after a
shower of rain.
* * * *
“M.S.”: Bert eyed the tucker-box,
glanced at the river and shook his head.
“I dunno,” he sighed. “Used every sort
o’ bait I c’d think of, too. There’s a
bloke half a mile down catching ’em
awright.” Charlie pricked up his ears.
“What sort o’ bloke?,’’ he inquired.
“Young’n. Not much more’n a kid. Got
quite a bag be the look o’ things.”
Charlie got slowly to his feet. “Better
take a look at him,” he decided. He
walked quietly downstream, took a good
look at the young angler from cover,
then strode forward purposefully. “Catch
any?” he greeted solemnly. “Yes, a few.
Why?” “Well, X don’t worry these
streams much,” announced Charlie,
“and I don’t want to be officious,
me lad, but . . , have you got a
licence*?” “Oh ves ves Inspector
licence: cm, yes . . • yes. inspector.
Got it here. The youth dived for a
pocket and held out a paper. Charlie
loo ked it oven “Jim Rutledge, eh?” he
murmured. Yair, well, that's in order,
Jim,” he conceded weightily. “Now I’d
better look over your catch.” The
youth was reluctant, but after a few
brisk promptings tipped out his bag.
Charlie clicked his tongue in wordless
reproach. “Those two are all right,” he
said presently, “but these three here are
definitely undersized. And this one too,
and this.” He paused to span a fish. “I’ll
have to take charge of them,” he an-
nounced. “Should put you up by right,
me lad, but seeing it’s your first
offence . . . H’m ; well, don’t let it
happen again, see?” A bit later Charlie
strode into camp. “There y’ are, Bert,”
he grinned, chucking over the fish. “Not
a bad feed. But better get ’em cooked
quick before some interferin’ damn’ in-
spector drops in.”
*
“Betcha”; The new hand hadn’t done
farm-work before, but, glad to get help
of any sort, Dad collected him at the
pub and duly installed him in the back
room, Their first job was renovating a
line of fence. “Awright,” said Dad,
handing the new hand a file. “I’ll pay
out this wire an’ you file it off at that
post, see?” He worked along the line,
then yelled to the hand: “Righto, y’ can
mark it off.” The bloke gaped around,
felt in his belt, searched the ground and
eventually found the file. Twenty minutes
later Dad again called to him, “Hey,
file through that rusted band on the post
there, wifi y’?” Again the hand began
hunting about. He looked in all the
unlikely places, felt his pockets, glanced
up the trees and dreamily eyed the horizon
till Dad arrived back and located the
file once more. An hour later and the
old bloke again passed him the file. “Now
hang on to it this time,” he instructed.
“I want it in a minute t’ touch up the
saw. Good saw this ’n, but gettin’ a bit
blunt, This stump’ll do t’ hold it. Now,
hand us that file. Eh? But blast it, 1
jus’ gave y’ the thing. What y’ done
with it?” The new hand was gaping help-
lessly and shaking his head. “Gripes, I
dunno,” sighed Dad with a touch of
exasperation. “What the blazes did y’
do before y’ come ’ere? Work f’r the
flamin’ Gover’ment or somethin’?” “Er —
yes,” nodded the newchum blandly.
“Yes, I did. I was in ‘Records.’ But,
however did you guess?”
* * * *
“Hanko”: I’m as certain that brolgas
dy highest of Australian birds as I’m sure
that “Royal-st.’s” white ibises (B.
11 1 1 1 ’5O) were spoonbills. A Douglas
DC3 would need to point its snout at
the stratosphere to cut the sky-path of
the big cranes when they’re journeying
to new pastures. It is then that their
metallic honking may be heard in the
blue, but a powerful telescope will not
discover them to you. The brolga is a
bonny bird ; jaunty, upstanding, stream-
lined, beautifully plumaged; a mighty
flyer and a chook that can trip the light'
fantastic with the gracefulness of a
ballerina. Our pioneers dubbed red-cap
the native companion, a name well-suited
to the most lovable creature in feather-
dom.
“Horseless Horseman”; Always
reckoned the old horse-drawn cream-
wagons I knew in Gippsland as a boy had.
passed on, but around Noorat (Vic.) 85
per cent, of the whole-milk is still haulpd
to the factories by Dobbin. At the
Glenormiston butter-factory 20 to 30
wagons line up any morning waiting for
the staging. The reason is that the pas-
tures are so lush—Noorat is the richest
dairying district in the State —that no
farm is more than two miles from a
factory. With so much stopping and
starting Dobbin is more reliable than old
motor-trucks.
* * * *
“Naturala”; “B.A.K.’s” query how the
case-moth is able to traverse a burning-
hot road (B. 4/1/’5O) may be met
with another question: Hpw does the
same case-dweller manage to cling to a
wire fence, a post, a wall —anywhere that
is exposed to the full heat of the hottest
day? After all, nature has equipped him
with a heat-resistant silk envelope.
A warm-blooded animal, particularly a
human, would feel half-smothered en-
cased in air-and-water-proof silk; but
Casey isn’t warm-blooded ; in fact, he has
no blood at all in the accepted sense. So
he can take all the heat the sun can pour
on to his insulated overcoat. But
“8.A.K.” errs in thinking the case-moth
grips the road with its mouth as a means
of locomotion. When building its
envelope it takes care to leave its front
pair of legs outside. With these it
perambulates. When at rest it hangs.
“Zake”: Wellman’s usual offsider was
down with an appendix, so before the
horse-sale opened he began casting
around for someone who could put the
nags through their paces. He eventually
succeeded in enticing into the job a raw-
boned youth with a fixed wide grin who
listened to the advice given him by the
auctioneer, gave an even wider grin and
mounted the first offering—a sprightly
chestnut. Aware that he was in the spot-
light, the youth exuberantly dug his boot-
heels in; two seconds later he was on the
broad of his back. He was next hoisted
on to a hungry-looking roan, which
promptly jolted its rider almost on to the
auctioneer’s rostrum. The volunteer
cheerfully came up again, only to be cata-
pulted through the door. Six times he
mounted various mokes, and six times
he smote the dust, by which time the
fixed grin was only a shadow of what
it had been. The next horse was a black,
all teeth and eyeballs, viewed head-on.
The volunteer was making for the. door
when the auctioneer asked him where he
was going. “For me camera,” drawled
the youth. “I’ll take a snapshot of this
next one an’ show it to ’em! ”
* * * *
“Flight”: I saw a falcon make the kill
with a button-bird quail. Soon after the
victor had struck a line for home it bent
its head under, advanced its claws, and
some feathered portion of its victim went
hurtling to earth. It fell near me and
was the quail’s wing. It was cruel, fiend-
ish in its ingenuity; but it was clever.
That wing contained but little meat and
slight picking ; also, if the quail did escape
it would be easy to patch again.


Safeguarding Estdto lnV6StlTl6lltS
demands this specialised hjiowledge
/
■pAMILIARITY with legal requirements,
investment values, taxation and property
details is a paramount responsibility of the
Executor or Trustee charged with the duty of
administering an estate involving commercial
or pastoral interests. Such knowledge is far
beyond individual capacity.
The Union Trustee Company is well qualified
by nearly 65 years’ experience to accept this
responsibility, and will act either jointly with,
or in place of, those who seek relief from such
onerous tasks. Charges are moderate; service
is most comprehensive.
You are invited to call—or write for a copy of ‘‘lmportant
Facts Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.’’
UNION TRUSTEE
dncornoratcd in Victoria 1 * Established 1885
COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA LTD.
333 Collins St, Melbourne; 2 O’Connell StrSydneyV39B-40“2 Queen St, Brisbane; and at Albury, Townsville,Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The only Trustee company having offices each with its own Board of Directors and management in three States Victoria, New South Wales and Queen a
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The 'Asia-Union Bank Merger
Now that Federal “Labor,” and with
it backdoor nationalisation of the trading
banks, have been tossed by the electorate
into the limbo of the discredited—the
High Court and Privy Council threw out
the Bank Nationalisation Act on consti-
tutional grounds —the way is clear
for the ’Asia and the Union, two
sturdy more-than-century-old Anglo-
Australasian banks, to go ahead with the
proposed merger of the two institutions,
preliminaries for which had been com-
pleted early in 1947. The declared object
is formation of a more powerful bank,
with important international connections,
which would be able to meet the future
requirements of trade and industry in
Australia and New Zealand, and provide
wider and fuller economic and com-
mercial information for customers. The
move is in no way associated with
monopoly control, nor will it have any
such result; it is intended to meet com-
petition, actual and potential, by
strengthening and widening the services
offered to customers. If and when
the merger does occur, the new Aus-
tral asia-Union Bank will rival in size the
oldest and largest of the Australian trad-
ing banks, the ’Wales, with the National,
now second on the list, dropping back to
third place.
Originally the amalgamation was to
have been on a share-for-share basis.
But a lot of water has run under the
bridge since, and the present position,
as stated by the chairman of each co.
in London last month, is that:
The directors of the two banks remain
convinced of the desirability of a merger,
and, indeed, in some respects the advan-
tages appear greater than they did in 1947,
but they are unable at present to put for-
ward a firm proposal as to when and by
what means a merger should be achieved.
There are new Governments in Australia
and New Zealand who must be consulted,
and we are faced with complex problems in
the field of company law, notably as the
result of the U.K. Companies Act of 1948,
and by the fact that the Bank of Australasia
operates under a Royal Charter In these
circumstances the merger may well be on
different lines from those originally sug-
gested.
A further statement on the position is to
be made toward the close of the year.
The local market thinks the substance
of the final proposal won’t be much, if
any, different from the original one, and
prices the scrip of the two cos., paid to
£5 in each case, as follows:
Net
f-* 1949 , 1950, Yield, Tangible
End Nov. Dec. 20. Feb. 2. p.c.* Cover.
’Asia.. £ll/7/- £ll/17/- £ll/10/- 2.69 £lO/8/6
Union . 11/-/- 11/9/- 11/5/- 2.75 11/8/9
* On 6.2 p.c. div. basis.
The difference in price is due to the
slightly better overall earning-power and
progress of the ’Asia, though the Union’s
scrip has the stronger disclosed net
tangible backing—in the 1920’s the Union
issued new capital at a premium of as
much as 120 p.c. Each co. now pays a
nominal 9 p.c. div., which English income
tax of 9s. in the £ reduces to £4 19s. p.c.
(stg.) in the hands of shareholders. At
the current rate of exchange that is worth
£6 3s. 9d. p.c. in Australian currency.
The yield to the investor is subject to
adjustment in connection with double
taxation. Any alteration in the
Australian-sterling exchange rate would,
of course, affect the net rate of dividend,
and therefore the yield, (expressed in Aus-
tralian currency.
Net earnings of the two cos, compare
as follows over the last three years:
(T- 1 Ratio to
Paid Shareholders’
Profit. Capital. Funds.
* A r.in £, Stp l ,
1947 .. .. 243,588 5.41 p.c. 2.62 p.c.
1948 .. .. 271,038 6.02 „ 2.90 „
1949 .. .. 278,290 6.18 „ 2.96 „
Union —
1947 . . . . 218,864 5.47 „ 2.41 „
1948 .. .. 245,032 6.12 „ 2.69 „
1949 . . . . 255,066 6.37 „ 2.78 „
Last term’s combined net earnings were
£533,356, equal to 6.27 p.c. on combined
capital (£8,500,000), or 2.87 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds (£18,534,267). What the
actual difference in earning-power, if
any, of the two cos. amounted
to last term depends upon how
much each set aside for contin-
gencies, and upon the amount deposited
with each by the Commonwealth Bank
at 3i p.c, to cover advances made in
accordance with prescribed policy but
in excess of the permitted aggregate. In
such circumstances, to deny the trading
banks the right to draw upon the large
sums they are obliged to deposit on
“special account” with the Commonwealth
Bank at i p.c. interest, and compel them
to accept deposits from that institution at
a greatly higher rate, is a clumsy in-
justice to both industry and shareholders.
This could be remedied, without creat-
ing more inflation, by a little flexibility
in administration.
Already overstrong inflationary trends
were accelerated by the September soft-
currency devaluations, superimposed upon
a bounteous season, buoyant trade and
“full” employment at high and rising
wage-rates. One way of easing the posi-
tion would be to lower the price of
sterling, which would reduce the cost of
imports and ease the pressure on prices
and wages, while continued high prices
for wool and other products would per-
mit export producers to take a cut in
their exchange bonus without serious
effects. But whether the new Govern-
ment, on the threshhold of its career, will
grasp the nettle that the problem presents
by way of complications in the fiscal and
industrial spheres remains to be seen.
For the banks it has all meant a high
degree of liquidity—marked expansion of
deposits accompanied by a substantial
increase in low-interest-bearing liquids
and a moderate growth of advances. Last
term the increase in deposits was
£17,157,993 ’Asia and £13,215,042 Union,
of which only £9,092,640 in the ’Asia
and £3,856,242 in the Union went into
advances, and the balance mostly into
liquids. Here are balance-sheet figures
of each co.:
’Asia. Union. Total.
£ Stg. £ Stg. £Stg.
Paid capital .. 4,500,000 4,000,000 8,500,000
Reserves . . 4,884,219 5,150,048 10,034,267
Deposits, etc.. .110,132,857 117,204,780 227,337,637
Liquids .. 59,231,771 70,879,280 130,111,051
Advances . . 59,361,250 52,277,548 111,638,798
Premises, etc... 1,060,182 719,000 1,779,182
Combined figures show advances equal
to only 49.1 p.c. and liquids equal to
57.2 p.c. of deposits, etc. Nearly half
the liquids were represented by deposits
on “special account” with the central
bank. It is an exceptionally strong posi-
tion, and the new institution would be
obviously well-equipped to do all that is
claimed for it. When the books closed
the two cos. had contingent liabilities in
respect of forward exchange, etc., aggre-
gating £61,833,000, which suggests that
traders generally were then hedging
against the possibility of an alteration
in the exchange rate.
Allan and Stark, Ltd. (Brisbane)
, Dividends \
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1940.. 16,636 2500 3 p.c. = 7,333 6,803 17,665
1941.. 17,072 2500 3i „ „ 8,556 6,016 23,681
1942.. 10,005 2500 3| „ „ 8,556 22,630
1943.. 19,171 2500 4 „ „ 9,778 6,893 29,523
1944.. 45,547 2500 5 ~ „ 12,223 30,824 60,347
To staff provident fund, £2500 .. 57,847
1945.. 41,490 2500 5 p.c. = 12,223 26,767 84,614
To staff provident fund, £2500 .. 82,114
1946.. 58,179 2500 84 p.c. = 20,778 34,901 117,015
To staff provident fund, £2500 .. 114,515
1947.. 69,419 2500 84 p.c. = 20,778 46,146 160,656
To staff fund, £l5OO .. .. .. 159,156
1948.. 80,793 2500 8i p.c. = 20,778 57,515 216,671
1949.. 77,055 2500 8$ „ „ 20,778 58,777 270,448
To finance further development of the
business, this energetic softgoods re-
tailer, which has made notable progress
over the last decade, offered those on the
register at Jan. 23 78,385 new 18s. ords.
at par, one for four, applications for
which close on March 3. When the
£70,546 from that lot is in, paid capital
will be £365,000 in 50,000 £l5 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 350,000 ords. of 18s. each.
The pref. div. and 8| p.c. to the ords.
will then call for £29,275, or £47,780 less
profit than was shown last term.
After sales at Bs. 6d. the rights to the
new issue recently changed hands at 95.,
making total cost per share, including
brokerage, 275. 3d., at which figure the
return would be a satisfactory 5.6 p.c. on
an 8| p.c. div. basis. The old shares at
285., ex rights, return 5.4 p.c. on the same
basis. The well-protected prefs. at 245.
yield 4.1 p.c. Including the new issue, net
tangible cover is £l2 14s. 2d. prefs, and
325. Id. ords.
The business has never been in better
trim, nor the outlook for shareholders
more encouraging. The co. ran into
trouble during the early 1930’s slump, the
net trading result for the four years to
1934 being a loss of £34,609. The corner
was turned in 1935, when 2s. a share
(£27,161) was lopped off capital and the
pref. div. was lowered from 7 p.c. to
5 p.c. For the next four years divs.
averaged only 2} p.c., with little to spare.
Then war ushered in a period of inflation
and scarcities, the effects of which are
still being felt. However, as more goods
become available during the post-war
period, net earnings stepped along in
fine style—they are now six times greater
than the 1939 figure. Meantime the
management pursued a conservative
policy, keeping the div. moderate (aver-
age 5.8 p.c. over the last decade) and
strengthening the co.’s resources and the
prop for capital, as well as its competi-
tive power—which is being further re-
inforced by current capital outlay—and
prospects of maintaining a satisfactory
rate of dividend.
Last term turnover (£1,539,887) in-
creased by approximately 12 p.c. Yet net
earnings were £3738 short of the previous
year’s at £77,055, That was after allow-
ing for depreciation (£9449, up £1214),
taxation (£49,000, down £8000) and a
bonus to the staff (£3500). The trouble
was an official cut in gross margins com-
bined with a steep rise in wage and all
other costs. The £77,055 covered the pref,
div. and 30.5 p.c. on ord. capital as against
32, 27.3, 22.7, 16.3 and 17.6 p.c, back to
1944.
Last term £26,200 net was added to the
book-value of premises and plant
(mainly to plant), £24,893 to stocks (due
largely to rising prices) and only £6054 to
the amount coming to trade creditors:
„ . , 1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £294,454 £294,454 £294,454 £294,454
Sundry creditors 71,168 79,194 82,497 88,551
Tax reserve, etc. 134,202 114,816 122,921 117 619
Final div., etc. 24,528 28,528 27,011 26,697
Premises & plant 214,770 221,300 238,082 264,282
Shares other cos. 54,043 34,293 34,293 34,293
Stock.. .. 234,705 293,723 341,147 366,040
Book debts .. 37,710 63,311 90,027 97,928
Cash, etc. .. 97,638 63,520 40,004 35,225
Finances are comfortable Excluding
shareholdings (scrip in Lloyd Mason Co.
Pty.), the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£266,326) was £27,577 stronger, despite
the outlay on fixed assets.
Australian Provincial Assurance
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1941.. 375,083 340,345 108,125 2,534,212
1942.. 375,330 337,876 98,911 2,472,755
1943.. 388,213 277,228 99,164 11,821 2,484.576
1944.. 406,068 242,227 99,221 64,620 2,549,196
1945.. 440,732 241,663 121,407 77,762 2,626,958
1946.. 475,014 230,846 139,306 104,862 2,731,820
Surplus from revalued Government 1
securities, £60,618 .. .. j-
Other additions to reserves, £14,000 J
2,806,438
1947.. 482,267 192,959 116,480 172,828 2,979,266
Added to reserves, £12,800 .. 2,992,066
1948.. 509,258 193,830 113,587 201,841 3,193,907
Exchange fluctuation res., £11,733.. 3,205,640
Added tax reserve, £l2OO .. .. 3,206,840
1949.. 552,979 187,050 124,780 241,149 3,447,989
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders: 1937-
40, £4500 ; 1941, £9OOO ; 1942, £4500; 1943-
46, £9000; 1947, £13,500; 1948-49, £lB,OOO.
Prospects for policyholders and share-
holders look more encouraging’ than they
have ever been, thanks to the strenuous
and untiring efforts of chairman. Edmund
Paul and the team he gathered around
him. They converted a business which
20-odd years ago, was heading for the
rocks into a financially sound institution
which is paying regular and satisfactory
bonuses to policyholders and moderate
divs. to shareholders.
The co. writes ordinary and accident
contracts throughout Australia and New
Zealand, and about three-quarters of the
life premiums are gathered in the Com-
monwealth. It has not joined in the
hunt for industrial and group business
and is therefore free of the worries now
associated therewith.
In the life section £1,134,565 (up
£54,495) of new business was written
last term, and the average per
policy was £523 as against £498 and
£344 for the two preceding years.
Premium income (£383,633) increased by
£23,808, and interest, rents, etc. (£99,376)
by £8354, making the growth in total
income (£482,998) £32,162. Claims
(£169,186, down £9728) were well within
expectation, but exes. (£87,920, up £9352)
were 1 p.c. heavier, at 22.9 p.c. of net
premiums, owing to the all-round increase
in costs. Of the £225,892 that remained,
£lO,OOO was transferred to property re-
serve (now £20,000), which belongs to
policyholders, £5150 to shareholders’
account and £210,742 to the statutory
life fund, raising it to £3,169,469. There
is also an exchange fluctuation-reserve of
£10,775 in respect of N.Z. income, making
total funds in the life department
£3,200,244.
The surplus distributed as bonuses
among policyholders (excess of life fund
over liabilities under policies) was
£50,258 (up £3303). Bonus rates were
the same as for the two preceding years,
namely 225. p.c. on whole-life and 15s,
p.c. on endowment assurances.
The accident and general department,
the one? with which shareholders are
mainly concerned, is developing nicely,
Total income was £69,981 (up £11,559),
of which £43,514 (up £5022) was
premiums and £26,467 (up £6537) interest,
rents, etc. After paying all legitimate
claims and exes., a surplus of £33,257 (up
£6770) remained, of which £30,152 was
transferred to p. and 1. account and £3105
to reserve for unexpired risks, now
£17,405, or 40 p.c. of premium income.
In addition there is a' special accident
reserve of £12,000, and general and other
reserves totalling £160,340 in this section
of the business, which the board intends
to develop further.
The amount available for share-
holders was £35,302 (up £4752), or
9.8 p.c. on capital as against 8.4 p.c.
for the previous term. The div.
was kept at 5 p.c., making the average
3.4 p.c. over the last seven years. At
235. 9d. the f.-p. pound shares, covered
by 545. Bd. in net tangibles, return 4.2 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis, with prospects.
Here is an overall view of the financial
structure:
1946. 1947. 1948.
£££ „ .
Public sec. 1,35 7,83 0 1,491,110 1,5 43,610 1,583," 8 »
Mortgages.. 4 0 4,63 6 3 7 8,68 7 3 6 9,808 356,28-
Loans on .
policies, etc. 61,648 55,627 59,207 68,851
Book debts,
cash, etc. 171,278 208,438 155,035 160,68-
Equipment. 3,585 2,825 4,450
Properties.. 7 5 7,0 4 0 7 4 0,165 7 3 7,558 788,
Shares .. 472,001 578,689 815,645 1,046,w
Total .. 3,228,018 3,465,541 3,685,313 3,949,581
Creditors .. 119,621 112,775 113,406
Net tangibles 3,108,397 3,352,766 3,571,907 3,823,989
Assur. fund* 2,6 4 7,9 6 4 2,7 99,7 3 6 2,980,027 3,18V'
Paid capital 360,000 360,000 360,000 360,1)^
* Includes reserves for unexpired risks: ’
£18,500; 1947, £19,200; 1948, £21,300, 1n-
fi11,405.
Assets are known to be well worth their
book-value. Of the £1,045,461 P
£229,816) of shareholdings, only
is in, controlled cos., the balance be
mainly in ord. stock (at cost)- Gove:
ment securities and shareholdings accou
’ for 40 p.c. and 26i p.c. respectively
total assets.


mrum
4JJ
m
4
A
>vS'C
S2®»
//!?
U4X
iS?S^k
vv-Je'
vnX
;S>'v>!'"
w
HP
SAUCE
AUSTRALIA'S FINEST THICK SAUCE
A <&ia, t&cm+HJd
PRODUCT
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
gd
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp bacteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
niters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdowu, Sydney, N.S.W.
Public Notice.
THE AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT
COMPANY
Annual General Meeting tof
Proprietors
Notice is hereby given that the Annual
General Meeting of the Proprietors of the
Company will be held at the Conference
Room, 7th floor, Grand United Order of
Oddfellows Building, 149 Oastlereagh
Street, Sydney, on Thursday, March 9,
1950, at 12 noon.
Business:
1. To receive the Report of the Directors
for the past year.
2. To elect two Directors in the place of
the Hon. Thomas George Murray,
M.L.0., and Mr. Francis William Hill,
who retire and who have given the
requisite notice that they are candi-
dates for re-election, for which they
are eligible.
8. To appoint two Auditors in the place
of Mr. Robert William Nelson, F.C.A.
(Aust.) and Mr. Harrie Hamilton Stitt,
F.C.A. (Aust.), who retire in accord-
ance with the usual practice. The
firms of Messrs. R. W. Nelson. Wheeler
and Barton, Chartered Accountants
(Aust.) and Messrs. Priestley and
Morris, Chartered Accountants (Aust.)
are eligible and offer themselves for
appointment.
4. To transact such other business as
may be properly brought forward.
Candidates for the Directorship are re-
quired to give notice of their candida-
ture in writing, to the undersigned, not
later than Wednesday, February 22, 1950.
The Transfer Book of the Company will be
closed from February 24 to March 9,
1950, both dates inclusive.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD,
J. B. ROBINSON, Secretary.
Head Office, 477 Pitt Street, Sydney.
January 19, 1960.
Position Vacant.
BEETLE-ELLIOTT LTD.
WORKS MANAGER.
Applications are Invited for the position
of Works Manager at the Company’s
Works, 35 Terry Street, Bozelle.
Salary £ll5O to £l5OO p.a. according
to qualifications and experience. Appli-
cations should be made to the above
address, and will close on February 28,
1950.
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Adyt,
Personal and Missing Friends.
QUEEN LEAH BYRNE.—WILL anyone
knowing the address of HAROLD GEORGE
BYRNE, the husband of, please com-
municate with J. J. KIELY, Solicitor, 17
Castlereagh Street, Sydney?
TO REGINALD JOHN FIRMAN formerly
of Jackson Street St. Kilda in the State
of Victoria and of 186 Drummond Street
Carlton in the said State but now of
parts unknown Merchant Navyman and
Cook.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
ALICE FIRMAN has instituted divorce
proceedings against you on the ground
of desertion UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the Office of the Deputy Prothono-
tary of the Supreme Court of Victoria in
Geelong on or before the Ist day of March
1950 and file an answer in the said office
on or before the 13th day of March 1950
the case may proceed in your absence. —
D. P. F. O’KEEFFE & CO., 100 Eyrie
Street, Geelong, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner.
WILL anyone knowing address of WIL-
LIAM DUNCAN HUNTER, Oil Tech-
nologist, please communicate with under-
signed? Enquiry relates to making title
to land at Rydalmere held jointly by him
with Frank Powell.—OAKES & SAGAR,
Solicitors, 1 Bent Street, Sydney,
until summer is nearly ®ver 9
and swelter day and niyht
INSULATE
your home ISOW with
B.LSLAGWML
No house, home, office or building is modem and entirely
healthy unless I! is Insulated preferably with BM
SLAGWOOL.
BX
/ -•
Ihsuuuum
* PTY., LTD.
’Phones: Sydney 8X5584, Melbourne
MTJ3SO6, Brisbane 83604, Adelaide C 7357,
Perth 1,3107
BIG 18
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Dueshury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8. White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. B. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone: B.W. 8361. 129 pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States. '
No Investor Can Afford
To Be Without It
ECONOMIC REVIEWS
INVESTMENT ANALYSES
MINING NOTES
Single Copies
Yearly Subscription
2/-
.. 22/6
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George-street, Sydney, and all States.
Hoffman Brick (Melbourne)
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. sems. serves.
SS-aHs^i!:SS -S™
8S::3 ™ =aa
~r: w wi?u »i ass
g’2os 84:,“ 7 220 985 51,089
12014 5 9,626 2388 58,477
Q4?' 11 519 6i ~ ~ 12,088 - 52,963
1948** 14 398 7i „ ~14,439 62,922
1949..'12,379 6i „ ~12,033 346 63,268
This is a time when investors
need to be more than usually
selective. Is there any industry
which has been held back by
adverse post-war factors and
awaits the opportunity of ex-
pansion? The building and con-
struction trades come near to
answering this question. In
home and other building there is
a backlog of orders that will
take years to complete. Yet
brick- and tile-makers are find-
ing it difficult to squeeze more
than moderate profits out of the
business. That is mainly be-
cause their plants cannot work
to capacity, owing to shortages
of coal and labor and industrial
troubles, while recurrent lifts in
wage and other costs press
heavily upon controlled selling
prices. So, although demand
continues to lengthen its lead
over slowly-expanding produc-
tion—the Australian output of
bricks is still below the 1938-39
level—it is difficult to say to
what extent and when net earn-
ings of the operating cos., which
had a thin time during the years
when war dried up demand, are
likely to substantially exceed
recent levels.
This co., which also turns out
sanitary-ware and drainpipes, has
a leg in on the trade on the south
side of the Yarra, too, by reason
of its shareholdings in brick-and-
tile concerns at Auburn, Oak-
leigh and Blackburn. Last term
the coal strike interrupted out-
put and aggravated the costs
problem. The slip in net earn-
ings was £2019, leaving the figure
at £12,379, second-best in the
last nine years. It was a mode-
rate 6.4 p.c. on capital as against
7.4, 6, 6.2 and 4.2 p.c. back to
1945. The div., which was
lowered from p.c. to 6i p.c.,
has averaged 5.7 p.c. over the
last five years.
Subject to industrial develop-
ments, prospects of a better
showing at next balance are en-
couraging. The market, which
appears to have fairly assessed,
the position, prices the f.-p.
pound ords., covered by 255. 6d.
in net tangibles, at 255., giving
a return of 5 p.c. on a 6i p.c.
div. basis.
There is nothing to worry
about in the finances:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital £192,628 £192,528 £192,528
Liabilities .. 18,139 22,255 26,299
Freeholds .. 73,443 72,770 73,706
Plant, etc... 53,838 55,687 59,665
Shares other
cos. .. 44,946 44,946 44,946
Stock .. 25,045 27,030 28,902
Book debts 14,665 21,402 20,022
Cash, etc... 58,913 55,496 52,073
Excluding shareholdings, more or
less liquids exceeded outside
liabilities by £74,798 (down
£6875) when the books closed.
Referring to the use of the
tunnel kiln, of which there has
been talk in Government and
other circles, the chairman says
installation of one would cost at
least £150,000, production would
not be much in excess of the
present Hoffman kilns and the
cost to the public would be more.
Chillagoe State Smelters (N.Q.)
After half a century of ups-
and-downs Chillagoe has finally
joined the list of once-active,
but now ghost, mining towns in
North Queensland, much to
the chagrin of old hands in the
area. The plant and other
effects of the State Smelters therd
were sold at auction last month
at bargain prices. Two Rob Roy
engines, reckoned to be worth
nearly £5OOO apiece, went for £7O
the pair; a blower, said to be
worth £lOOO, was knocked down
for £1; four boilers fetched only
£25 the lot; and a couple of
locos realised only £25 the two.
First erected by the old Chil-
lagoe Railway and Mines Co. in
1901, the smelters worked con-
tinuously until 1911, and closed
down in 1914 for financial and
other reasons, including a fire
which destroyed part of the
works, and shortage of coke and
ore. Five years later the State
bought the outfit, and ran it at
a loss until early 1927, when the
furnaces closed down again fol-
lowing a strike at Mt. Mulligan
colliery and severe damage to
the railway by a cyclone. After
strong and repeated representa-
tions from miners and others in
the area, smelting began again
in October, 1929, and continued
with intermittent stoppages until
1943, when the final shut-down
occurred, owing to the war-time
drain on manpower and shortage
of ore.
During the 1929-43 period
some 350,000 tons of ore were
treated for about 140,0000 z. fine
gold, 720,0000 z. silver, 30,000-
odd tons copper and over 1000
tons lead, the lot realising over
£3,000,000. The ore was drawn
mainly from the Chillagoe,
Cloncurry, Herberton and Ethe-
ridge fields.
Old hands regard last month’s
sale as a major disaster, and
claim that, with metals around
present prices, a resumption of
operations at Chillagoe would
have brought to life again a
dozen or more old mining towns,
which would contribute enough
ore to make treatment profit-
able all round. After a special
investigation in 1944 the Mines
Department said none of the
known ore-bodies in the area
offered much prospect of pro-
ducing sufficient tonnage to
warrant the opening of a smelter
in the north.
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie,
which shifted headquarters from
London to Melbourne at the be-
ginning of 1949, has just secured
six-months’ extension on several
leases at Lakewood, south of the
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile (W.A.).
To investigate ore occurrences
here, two drills, each with a
500 ft. range, are expected from
America in March, at a total cost
of £20,000. Another drill of
similar range, cost about £ll,OOO,
is now on the way from Mel-
bourne. Recent developments
on two of the co.’s main Kal-
goorlie leases. Iron Duke and
Oroya South, have disclosed
heartening results. An interim
10 p.c, div. was paid in October
last as against 10 p.c. for the
year to March 31,1949, and 5 p.c.
for the two preceding terms.
The two 10 per cents, were free
of, and the two 5 p.c. subject to,
English income tax of 9s. in the
£l. Last week buyers offered
19s. 9d. for the 10s. stock units
compared with Bs. 6d. a year
ago.


XL-AJC
OK-VO
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:~~*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Providing for your
dependents
Two points to bear in mind
• YOUR WILL. However simple your Estate may
be, have your will drawn by a Solicitor and nave
him keep it up to date.
• YOUR EXECUTOR. Name Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited as your sole Executor or joint y
with a relative or friend—and so ensure the prompt
and economical administration of your Estate.
Perpetual T rustee
Company Limited has
the experience and the
facilities to carry out
your wishes as you
intend and in the
best interests of your
dependents.
The management of
Estates has been the
primary purpose of the
Company for over 63
years. It is certain to
be ready to act
promptly when needed.
•
’Phone or write for a
copy of the interesting
and helpful booklet.
“Your Executor and
Trustee” that explains
the services the Com-
pany has to offer —and
the charges.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.
(Chairman);
E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS:
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT;
D. R. LTSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN:
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager
•
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68,000,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANI LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS,
UNDER POWER OF
administrator, etc.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA VAGGA, TAM IF ORTH and
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Inflation
The Holland Government in
New Zealand has got in earlier
with a financial post-mortem on
its predecessors than has been
possible in Australia. The
Maoriland Prime Minister makes
specific charges of a “Labor”
policy which involved the coun-
try in buying from abroad more
than its income from exports
warranted, and spending inter-
nally more than public borrow-
ing and tax revenue was able to
meet; hence heavy borrowing
from the central bank, with
direct credit-inflation as the
result.
In Australia the position in
these respects is somewhat dif-
ferent. Our credit balances
abroad have been growing as our
exports have continued to out-
strip the cost of our imports.
And whereas the N.Z. “Labor”
Government between March,
1947, and December, 1949, bor-
rowed £63 million from the
central bank, in the Common-
wealth there has been a reduc-
tion in the accommodation
granted to the Government by
the Commonwealth Bank since
the war ended. This has been
possible principally because the
Chifiey Government, with taxa-
tion rates still high, and bounti-
ful seasons accompanying soar-
ing prices for wool and wheat,
■was able to put away large
Budget surpluses in hidden re-
serves. But to what extent
“Labor” public loans were filled
by savings-bank credit has yet
to be determined. During the
war years, and for a time after
the war, “Labor” loans were
largely filled by savings-bank
subscriptions, a process which
was full of inflationary potenti-
alities.
But while the Australian
economy would seem to be more
soundly placed, from the point
of view of Government finance,
overseas trade and central-bank
finance than that of New Zea-
land, costs-inflation has been
every bit as great in the Com-
monwealth. And it is costs-
inflation which ultimately be-
comes the hangover of a boom
period. The basic wage has
risen just on 70 p.c. in Australia
“ Isn't it Wound up enough yet, Dad ?”
war began In Maoriland
the inflation has been something
less than 60 P c - in the same
period.
The Dominion, too, is now on
parity, in its exchange rate, with
Britain. Australia has not yet
decided what it is going to do
H
m this regard.
Prime Minister Holland, in
New Zealand has chareed the
formef Government withhaving
beenon an inflLionaTv bender 8
en on an i flatio a y ,
during the past three years it
would bring the country into
serious difficulty. Though it
would take time, his own Gov-
ernment intended to remedy the
position before it became disas-
trous.
Oil and the Small Man
“Petro”: In the piping days
of the late nineteenth and early
twentieth centuries, when good
beer in the United States was
five cents a schooner—with a
counter-lunch thrown in—and
profitable flow-oil could be
struck short of 1000 ft., the small
man, working on shoe-string
finance with a cheap junk outfit
and in areas where transport
was easy, often hit the “black
gold” apd gained a competence.
Sometimes he became a dollar
millionaire overnight. Prospects
were almost as good, also, in
Rumania, Burma and the Cau-
casus.
There were many more
failures than successes, of
course, but the unlucky driller
could always get a job “on the
floor” and keep it until he had
amassed sufficient capital for
another try.
In those days 5000 ft. was con-
sidered a deep hole. Now the
world’s deepest bore is at
20,400 ft., and during 1948, in
the Texas-Louisiana coastal dis-
trict alone, 126 wells reached
depths below 12,000 ft. Costs
per foot have quadrupled, even
for comparatively shallow holes,
and, in spite of enormous ad-
vances in technique, the propor-
tion of non-productive to pro-
ductive wells has increased.
Moreover, any reasonable
hope of success is now confined
to areas difficult of access and
under , drilling conditions beyond
the means and technical facili-
ties of any but the large oil
companies. The chance of
reaching the producing stage be-
fore becoming bankrupt is, to-
day, so remote in the case of
even a moderately capitalised
syndicate that it is best for-
gotten, and that statement is par-
ticularly applicable to
tralian conditions.
Lack of ready cash is only
one of many handicaps.
Under present-day conditions
not only is a large staff of
highly-paid experts requisite in
the search for oil, but the care-
fully-guarded results of the ex-
perience of abnormal conditions,
conserved in the archives of the
oil barons, lends them a tre-
mendous advantage.
Of the technical staff, the
geologist has long ceased to be
a general practitioner but has
become highly specialised, some-
times confining his activities to
one area or one type of struc-
ture only. . He still carries the
name of “rock-hound,” but it
is a misnomer. In close col-
laboration with him works the
“doodle-bug,” or geophysicist,
who is employed, even where
surface indications of structure
are good, to check the deduc-
tions at depth of the geologist.
The doodle-bug, who should be,
ideally, one-third geologist, one-
third physicist and one-third
mathematician, is often a pure
mathematician —with disastrous
results unless the geologist is a
very competent and very stub-
born individual.
When drilling starts there is
the driller, no longer a “by-
guess-and-by-God” sinker of
holes but a skilled engineer
handling very complicated and
expensive machinery and kept
informed of sub-surface condi-
tions by an awesome collection
of dials. At his elbow is the
“mud-hog,” or rheologist—a
comparatively recent addition to
the oil game—whose duty it is
to see that the drilling-mud is
kept at the right weight, vis-
cosity, gel-strength and gel-rate
to meet the conditions en-
countered.
More or less in the back-
ground are palaeontologists and
mineralogists, to mention only
two of the logistical tribe found
on the payroll of the major oil
companies.
All these may be considered
as modern minimum require-
ments, and they offer no diffi-
culties to the large corporations ;
they constitute an almost im-
possibly severe drain, however,
on the resources of the small
company, which often tries to
compromise by engaging a
“general practitioner” in
geology. This unfortunate in-
dividual is expected by them to
handle all problems (includim.
‘ h °f. °J 1 X remotely connect
with his profession) with
specialist skill, and it is not re-
markable, nor particularly
blameworthy, that he often falls
down on the job. For the other
legists and ancillary technical
services the small company is
forced to rely on technical
bureaus, governmental or pri-
vate, which, by reason of their
general character, cannot possess
the individually specialist experi-
ence which is required on each
separate field.
A further disability of the
average small oil company is the
constitution of its board, which
is normally composed of busi-
nessmen whose chief interest lies
in Stock Exchange reactions.
Such men cannot appreciate
the caution in statements of
the competent specialist
notoriously a “difficult” fellow
—whose cold factual reports
usually lead to a break; he is
soon replaced by a more amen-
able individual whose inexperi-
ence allows him to employ
share-boosting expressions such
as “magnificent prospects” and
“structures comparable to those
found in the greatest oilfields in
the world,” both of which have
been used so frequently that
they should have lost any value.
They mean nothing, anyway.
And so the small oil company,
whose birth was heralded by
scrip bearing representations of
oil-gushers bravely wasting oil
at each corner, drifts into
bankruptcy, leaving behind as
mourners only those unfor-
tunates whose invested savings
have been swallowed up in try-
ing to do too much with too
little.
While Bradford Cotton “old”
shares fetch 475. 6d. in the share-
market, the “new” are being
traded in at Is. 6d. lower. The
new scrip is by far the better
buying. Difference in dividend
accrued is only a few pence.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution . Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
p t> DIRECTORS:
F, 4?n a !™ an) ;. F V W - HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS.
Q. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J* K. WILLIAMS, General Manager*
25*
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in England)
cheque account with the iddanh ii ai
convenient to the private individuaiai it ii
eiientiai to the huiineii houie.
branch wi ■tlgUtf adviie you.
Or
A U
4?
m
ESTABLISHED 1837
Branches throughout Australia & New Zealand
“TOOL UP”
YOUR MACHINE SHOP WITH.
HIGH LEVEL ILLUMINATION
88888888 « B
>*. ! * •
>•:.: .
■
\ JP ***«,
\ ; V u
'3j|| /
WW ill
V --
■I
rr* p
&
*
mmamvsmv
■■
wm
11
I «T 1 *0 '* n*l
. a % m
n
ilia
> ■• w-i
H
IB
Hi
m
■
;V :■■;;■
zl J 911 ; I Hi :: -1 ■ll ■I -I
mm
REDUCE ERRORS AND LABOUR TURNOVER
WITH CLAUDE COLD CATHODE
FLUORESCENT
LIGHTING
NEON
DISPLAYS
PORCELAIN
ENAMEL
The link between good workmen
and good work is good lighting.
That is why Claude Cold Cathode
Fluorescent Lighting is as funda-
mental to production efficiency as
are good machine tools.
Claude Cold Cathode lighting
raises the general level of illumina-
tion for the most critical seeing
operations without increasing
shop temperatures, without pro-
ducing the deep shadows and glare,
and consequent eye-fatigue, nor-
mally associated with increasing
light intensity.
The all-round advantages that
accrue are tangible—reduction of
rejects, of accidents, labour turn-
over and costs, as well as lower
costs per lumen and increased
lamp life.
Call your nearest Claude office for
all the facts, and for details of the
Claude Rental Plan, which avoids
the necessity of incurring capital
expenditure.
CLAUDE
neon limited
SYDNEY - NEWCASTLE - MELBOURNE ■ BRISBANE - ADELAIDE ■ PERTH • HOBART ■ LAUNCESTON
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
Even though campaigning
hasn’t yet reached fever-heat,
the coming general election
overshadows every other ac-
tivity. Candidates and their
helpers have been advised to
save their energy for the later
stages, which promise to be
hard-fought and bitter. A
stronger reason is that they
daren’t spend their money, for,
by comparison with other days,
this election is being fought on
a shoe-string. An added compli-
cation arises from the attitude
of those industries that seek to
defend themselves against
nationalisation. Is the cost of
their poster and advertising
campaigns an election expense?
Mr. Herbert Morrison makes
veiled threats and Sir Hartley
Shawcross, the AUorney-
General, is vague and circum-
spective. The truth is that no
one but a High Court judge can
decide. But three industries —
cement, meat and insurance—
think it wise to be cautious, and
have covered up their posters.
Only the indefatigable Lord
Lyle, chairman of the sugar firm,
refuses to be intimidated.
In the party line-up the
Socialists have a slight tactical
advantage over the Tories. No
other party is likely to get very
far. There is, perhaps, a greater
general need for Liberalism than
there is confidence in the divided
Liberal party. Communists,
with 100 candidates, aren’t likely
to exceed their present represen-
tation (two seats).
The Socialists are conducting
their campaign on two broad
fronts: by raising a smoke-
screen over the masses and by
making a dead-set at the middle
classes so obvious that it has all
the mercenary glitter of a har-
lot’s smile. The Socialist tactics
have several times been outlined
in these columns. There is noth-
ing to add. The major issues of
the day are ignored or swept
aside. That old bogey, unem-
ployment, is trotted out and ex-
hibited as if it were an ever-
present death-dealing monster;
and propaganda never lets it out
of sight or hearing. The fact
that all parties have committed
themselves to full employment
is glibly laughed to scorn.
The Labor - party election
manifesto, which is expressed to
be “a declaration of Labor
policy for the consideration of
the nation,” is euphemistically
mis-titled “Let Us Win Through
Together.” A title more indica-
tive of its content would be
“Workers, Unite!” The
pamphlet glosses over much that
is urgent and unsure, is often
misleading, is full of misstate-
ment and ignores entirely the
incidence of Marshall Aid.
Class - warfare, fear - provoking
pronouncements and threats of
privation under non-Socialist
Governments are once more
drummed out with fearful in-
sistence.
A Wooer Spurned
Mr. Morrison, as Labor cam-
paigner-in-chief, has often im-
plored his colleagues to broaden
their outlook so that the Labor
party can fairly represent all
sections of the community and
have a wider, more liberal sup-
port. In 1945 a large number
of wavering or middle-class
voters helped to put the Socialists
m because they felt that it .was
time for a change of Govern-
ment —and new ideas. They’ve
had both, but circumstances
have turned out to be very
different from expectations.
What happened is now well-
enough known, although the
realisation has been slow and
painful. Socialism didn’t come
to mean a period of post-war
recovery and reconstruction,
with progress perhaps a little
slow but none the less certain,
with something to look forward
to in the future and a new
Britain led by able and right-
minded men. It meant —just
Socialism, with Britain as a
guinea-pig for an inflexible party-
line. The revolution (it is nothing
less than that) turned things
topsy-turvy. The great mass of
the workers, once—but not in
recent years—underpaid and
underprivileged, were raised to
a degree of soft-cushioned
security quite out of proportion
to their responsibilities. An im-
moderate and often ill-con-
sidered flood of legislation fol-
lowed. Nationalisation was seen
to fail, yet not to stop. Gov-
ernment expenditure went on,
excessive and apparently un-
checked ; and there was talk of
political patronage and a new
privileged class.
At whose expense? Not the
rich, for there were none left to
be “soaked.” The highest taxa-
tion in the world came to affect
nearly all pockets, but it was
the middle-class who had to pay
out the most, actually and rela-
tively. At times they were
reminded of their place in the
new order. Many of them, ac-
cording to the Minister of
Health, were “lower than ver-
min” ; Mrs. Braddock, a. back-
bencher, didn’t care “two hoots
if they starved to death” ;
the Attorney-General affirmed
that “We are masters at the
moment, and not only at the
moment, but for a very long time
to come”; and Mr. Shinwell,
chairman of the Socialist party,
said that “they didn’t matter a
tinker’s cuss.”
But at this indeterminate stage
in party fortunes they appear to
matter very much to Mr. Morri-
son. So much so that for the
first political broadcast they
were given the special and en-
tire attention of Mr. J. B, Priest-
ley, well-remembered for his
heartening war-time postscripts.
Notwithstanding Mr. Priestley’s
grumbling and criticism —a quite
new aspect of Labor propaganda
—and his assertion that the
Socialists fell short of perfec-
tion, Mr. Morrison’s cupboard
love has gone unrequited. His
astuteness may indeed have been
over-clever, for it has served
only to draw attention to his
dependence on the middle-class
vote.
Counter-attack
The Conservative party lost
no time in bringing out their
programme, “This Is the Road.”
It was published three days after
the broadcast by Mr. Churchill,
whose signature appears below
a short introduction. That nearly
every paragraph also portrays
his telling style is evidence of
the personal attention he con-
tinues to give to details. His re-
tirement never seemed less likely
than it does now.
The pamphlet is an extension
in crystallised form of “The
Right Road for Britain.” All
parties are agreed that the Wei-
fare State must continue: they
differ only in how it should be
conducted. At last the Tories
seem to be taking a bolder and
more specific line. Instead of
trying to conceal the hard truth
that they don’t really believe in
a Utopia, with the State at once
a protector and an easy-handed
philanthropist, they are now
pointing to incentive as the bul-
wark of the new Britain. Mr.
Churchill, in his broadcast,
stressed that there should be “a
basic standard of life and labor
below which a man or woman,
however old or weak, shall not
be allowed to fall,” but that,
once that had been attained,
private energy and initiative
should be free to gain reward.
While this dictum can hardly be
expected to be universally popu-
lar in a community that has been,
encouraged to look upon profit
as vaguely indecent and thrift as
unnecessary, it is refreshing for
the truth to be told. And the
effects may be far-reaching.
This wouldn’t be the first time
that the nation chose to face
the facts instead of dodging
them.
The Tories also seem to have
realised the effectiveness against
them of that insistent scream
“deliberate unemployment.” In
introducing “This Is the Roald,”
Mr. R. A. Butler (the last of
our politicians to lose himself
in firebrand frenzy) described
this device as a “dirty attack,”
and said if there was one prob-
lem to be tackled without venom
and spite it was unemployment.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
When Major-General Kingsley Norris,
president of the Royal Empire Society,
commented on the cost of postage to send
food parcels to England, Lady Dixon,
president of the women’s group of the
society, disclosed that the postage on
parcels worth £lOOO was £442. Sending
parcels “from my house to thy house ’
costs more in postage than sending them
in bulk ; nevertheless, the women’s group
preferred to do this, as it considered
the personal touch worth the extra post-
age because it brought big divi-
dends in Empire goodwill. Last year the
group posted 9036 parcels; this year,
Lady Dixon hopes, the total will reach
10,000. Since the inauguration of the
group in July, 1945, over £3OOO had been
handed to the main society and a similar
amount raised for Food for Britain.
During the year the clothing appeal was
closed after about 12,000 garments had
been sent to Britain. At the meeting
Lady Dixon was re-elected president of
the women’s group.
The rollicking music of the evergreen
“Pinafore,” added to the infectious gaiety
of Ivan Menzies as the First Sea Lord
who had never been to sea and the beauty
and good singing of Helen Roberts as
the captain’s daughter, found great
favor with the big first-night audience.
Helen wore a striking black-and-white-
striped hooped frock and a frilly white
bonnet. Later she appeared in a formal
gown which had almost a modern touch.
Bouffant, of pastel-blue self-patterned satin
with the off-the-shoulder line outlined
with a white fichu collar, it was worn over
a striped-blue-and-gold satin petticoat.
Among enthusiastic Gilsullivan-lovers
were Jean Quinn, in a black taffeta bah
lerina frock; Betty Paterson, who con-
trasted her powder-blue ruffled chiffon
gown with a cerise velvet evening coat;
Anne Tate, her short dinner-frock of
floral chiffon ; Mrs. H. Pacini, in a gown
of pink-and-black-striped taffeta; Mrs.
F. Lee, who used white ermine lapels as
contrast for her black dinner-suit; and
Mavis Hotmer, who teamed a black satin
ballerina skirt and a frilly white organdie
blouse.
At its first meeting of the year the
British Memorial Fund committee
finalised details for a dance which will
be held at the Malvern home of Mr. and
Mrs. lan Miller, on March 11. A large
marquee will be set up on the lawn, and
its flattering pink lining will make even
the most jaded dancer look as fresh as
the dawn. Tickets are two guineas each,
and the number of dancers will be limited.
All proceeds will be devoted to the British
Memorial Fund, which is aiming at the
establishment of scholarships to bring out
young British men and women to study at
our universities. Mr, Reynolds, K.C., hit
upon this idea to pay tribute to the British
people for their pluck and endurance
during the Blitz. Working for the dance
is the Clarke lady, who leaves shortly
afterwards for England with her husband.
Other committee-members are Mesdames
Ross Grey Smith, Russell Coldham, Leo
Frankel and Ivor Mclnnes.
The British Memorial Fund Younger
Set, busy with money-raising schemes,
sent out bright and novel invitations to
“come and gnaw a chop or two —and, if
you are lucky, sausages as well.” Gnaw-
ing will take place at a beach-and-
barbecue party at Glynt, Mount Martha,
the home of Mr. and'Mrs. L. R. Buxton,
on Sunday, February 19. Already almost
150 invitations have been accepted, and,
if the weather helps, the bright young
things should not only have a good time
but help considerably the funds of the
B.M, Scholarship Appeal.
The battle of the hemline continues.
Some designers want it higher, others
want it to remain where it is. Jacques
Path is itching to get women’s waistline
down to where it was in the ’twenties, but
Molyneux beat him to the draw, and his
latest collection shows waistlines where
nature intended them to be. Although the
silhouette has scarcely changed, fashion
features have. For instance, collars for
autumn and winter clothes have the
dramatic touch. There’s the Napoleonic
collar, which is shoulder-wide and comes
up almost to the crown of the head. The
Danton collar is pushed up to the ears
by adding a matching scarf. Molyneux
uses black velours for a coat which has
a wide, big collar but cut low to meet the
revers. Yet again he makes a double-
breasted reefer jacket fastened up to
a broad-curved collar with round silver
buttons. The biggest collar is the deeply-
folded fichu, part shawl, part sleeve, which
is a feature of both evening gowns and
cocktail frocks. With a collar of this
description the neckline plunges, the
bodice is tightly buttoned and the skirt
is very full. Naturally, with such outsize
collars, hats are small. Caps, cloches,
bonnets, berets and short, flowerpot
shapes all hug the head.
The uneven hemline for the evening
mode is still Jxing featured by English
designers, the vogue for the short,
decollete dinner-dress is extending. Peter
Russell is showing the uneven hemline
in many of his day-ensembles. They dip
at the front and back, or even at the
sides, and he calls them “disturbed lines.
Molyneux shows a return to the Grecian
influence with a long, flowing overskirt
which opens to show a short narrow
underskirt. Layers of tulle cover a
tubular skirt of taffeta. It is mid-calf m
length at the front, but reaches the floor
at the back. The formal evening gown
shows a slim-fitting front with all the
fullness pulled back over the hips, to fall
into bows or draped into winged sections.
For these gowns there are moire taffetas,
shot-velvets, faille, Ottoman and brocade.
Another good cause which is making
excellent progress is the Vera Scantlebury
Brown Memorial Appeal, which has Lady
Herring for president. Last year many
successful functions were held by women,
but now the men are in it. At the home
of Sir Edmund and Lady Herring a late-
afternoon party was held and a committee
of businessmen formed. In two minutes
over £l7oo' was raised. Dr. Vera
Scantlebury Brown was Victorian
Director of Maternal, Infant and Pre-
school Welfare from 1926 until her death
in 1946. As a result of her work mothers
in the outback have cause to thank her
for instituting the visiting, caravan service,
by which nurses trained in infant welfare
are able to give expert advice and treat-
ment. To perpetuate her memory, a trust
fund was established to send an outstand-
ing woman doctor, nurse or pre-school
worker overseas each year to study
maternal- or child-hygiene. At the party,
for which the reception-rooms were
decorated with bowls of pastel-tinted
hydrangeas, gladioli and red-pokers, Lady
Herring wore a navy French crepe frock
with a draped side-panel featured on the
skirt, the bodice being relieved with white-
beaded embroidery. Dr. Molly Herring
and her sister Margaret assisted their
mother in entertaining the guests. The
Angliss lady, who is vice-president of
the appeal, and the two hon. secretaries,
the Connelly lady and Marion Mc-
Pherson, were there. Greetings werfe
given to Dr. Margaret Mackie, who was
awarded the scholarship for 1949 and has
just returned from her studies overseas,
and Thelma Baker, 1948 scholarship
winner.
Slim, graceful, fair-haired Helen
Roberts, whose spirited acting and
beautiful singing as Mabel in “The
Pirates” and as Elsie Maynard in “The
Yeomen” have been delighting Melbourne
audiences, toured Italy in a season of
grand opera before joining the D’Oyly
Carte organisation. Prior to leaving
England Helen was appearing in the
popular 8.8. C. feature “Much Binding
in the Marsh.” Her mother, Mrs. E. F.
Roberts, is accompanying her on this tour.
Of special interest in big-tennis circles
is the forthcoming marriage of Veronica
Linehan and Geoff Brown. Veronica,
who is the younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. V, Linehan, of Toorak, was edu-
cated at Mandeville Hall and is a former
schoolgirl champion. Geoff is the .younger
son of Mr. and Mrs. R. G. Brown, of
Baulkham Hills (N.S.W.). They plan to
marry at St. Patrick’s Cathedral on
March 23. If her sister Margaret, who
is an air-hostess with Canadian Pacific
Airways, can obtain leave she will be one
of Veronica’s attendants. The others are
Pam Knox, of Woodend, and Joy
Donoghue, who were at Mandeville Hall
with the bride-elect, and her schoolgirl
cousin Geraldine Carroll.
From Sydney
Mrs. Joan Sands, who was one of “The
Five Sydney Artists” showing recently at
David Jones’s Gallery and who received
warm praise for her work in landscape
and portraits, goes off to Europe at the
end of March. She sails for Italy, Where
she will roam the Galleries, and then she
makes for Paris, where she will settle for
a time, taking lessons. Mrs. Sands is a
native of Tasmania. Her birthplace was
Sheffield, among the hills. Lately she has
been directing a picture library. That
is to say, a place from which the sub-
scriber can have the loan of good paint-
ings, and hang them for a time in his
home. Many paintings are Sold in this
way. The subscriber generally hates to
part with the picture he has been gazing
at for a fortnight or so. Dattilo Rubbo
so far has been Mrs. Sands’s only teacher.
He taught her to draw and to draw well.
Norton Trevaire photograph.
This State is determined to keep abreast
of the other States and its national
opera. The Empire Theatre has been
engaged for a season of eight weeks
next year. Five weeks will be
given to opera and three to ballet.
Italian producer Adelio Zagonara, who
was here with the recent J. C. Williamson
season, will arrive from Italy at
the end of this year, and after that
National Opera Inc. will plunge into the
business of picking casts and arranging
rehearsals. Subscriptions, while not
exactly pouring in, are coming in a steady
flow, and the result in hand is quite a
respectable sum. Many business firms
have sent donations, and altogether the
committee is feeling quite happy about
its venture, which gets its civic send-off
tomorrow at noon in the Town Hall.
Last week Napoleon standing idly on
the stairs at Romano’s probably noted
the crowds of musicals hurrying down
into the cocktail-bar on the left just at
the martini-hour. Sydney’s Lord Mayor
O’Dea and Mrs. O’Dea were at this party,
which was also a meeting of the Opera
Committee and friends. President Erik
Langker told of the progress made in the
six months since the scheme was set in
motion, and stressed the point that until
housing and essentia! building were well
in hand there could be no thought of
building a theatre specially for opera.
The Countess Pietrasanta Sauvaigue and
Mrs. C. T. Lorenz and many other ladies
of the council were present. The room,
which is surrounded by the exquisite
Fred Leist mural of many countries, was
crowded. Mrs. Erik Langker, Mrs.
Estelle Andrews, the musicianly Dr. Toy,
Sir Hugh Poynter and Madame Scott
were among applauders.
The fourth annual Horse Show of the
Ingleburn Horse and Pony Club will be'
held on Saturday, February 18, in con-
junction with the Y.W.C.A. The ground
is one minute from Ingleburn station. If
you are a person you can get into the
ground for Hid., but if you are a car
you pay 3s. Lunch can be bought on
the grounds. The Ingleburn Club is proud
of its progressive ideas. Audible judging
is one of them. Through a microphone
the listeners can follow the points of
hack or pony as the judge makes his
comments. The club, too, awards ribbons
generously —even to fourth-class. The
president is Mrs. Edward Hirst.
This Letter, probably one of Sydney’s
“worst-dressed ten,” had a good laugh
over Mrs. Deke Coleman’s talk on fashion
to members of the American Women’s
Club last week. This was at the Pickwick
Club, and the 40 or so listeners must have
breathed a sigh of relief as the snob-
complex about “model” frocks was given
its exit line by Mrs. Coleman, who by the
way has been adjudged one of 1949’s
10 best-dressed women. Mrs. Coleman
told her audience that only the Queen of
England can justly lay claim to owning
original models, and that is because
Hartnell, her dressmaker, will never
make a copy of any of her gowns
Models are only blueprints' to be sold to
wholesale buyers ; these prints in turn are
copied, possibly by the hundreds. The
more attractive the model the more the
copies.
There has been such overemphasis
on expensive clothes, on styles for every
occasion, on millinery that rose in price
high as the Eiffel tower, that it was as re-
freshing ‘as a southerly at the end of a
February day to hear this commonsense
talk. Still, Mrs. Coleman’s frock was a
Paris choice, and she gave her talk sleek
in black crepe with an off-shoulder line,
Her shoes were of black suede, and she
wore no hat on her blonde head. Mrs.
Coleman is a graduate in Arts of
the Sorbonne and a B.Sc. of Brussels
University.
And talking of imported re-
minds of the girl who was spoken of with
bated breath as she went past at a Rand-
wick meeting. “That suit is American,
the hat is from Paris, the shoes are
English, and the gloves Italian,” muttered
one awed female. “Glorious!” replied
the Girl in the Flat Opposite. “I bet the
only Australian thing about that outfit is
daddy’s money!”
Walking along Castlereagh-street one
day last week, this writer was startled to
hear a quietly sardonic voice saying in
conversational tones: “You know, if you
don’t eat, you’ll die of malnutrition.”
The speaker was leaning against a barrow
loaded with vegetables for which at that
moment he had no customers at all.
If any corner of the Happy Hunting
Ground is given over to polo-fields
and picnic races, then Goulburn’s
Norman Gibson will be found there,
urbane and kindly as he was in
this life. His name was long
associated with Tirranna picnic races, and
the much-sought Dudley Cup is called
after one of the four brothers who had
predeceased him. They were: Dudley,
Campbell, Ronald and Colin. This gallant
old Australian, who died recently,
is buried in his own private grounds
in a lovely spot nestling among
shrubs and Australian and English
trees on a hillside overlooking his own
home and that of his father: Burrun-
gurroolong and Tirranna, home of the
famous picnic races. He was the one re-
maining son of the late Faithfull Gibsons,
of Tirranna. Widespread sympathy is
felt for his widow and members of his
family.
Air-mail letters from Dame Adeline
Genee, made a Dame Commander
of the British Empire in the New
Year Honors, tells her friends and
former pupils Kathleen Danetree and
Frances Scully that their cables from
Sydney actually acquainted her, while
holidaying, with her new honor.
Dame Adeline is president of the
Royal Academy of Dancing, London,
and Frances Scully represents the
academy in this Stake. Kathleen, a
friend of Dame Adeline’s over many
years, came to Australia as an examiner
for R.A.D. Dame Adeline ends her note:
“I hope I will be able to live up to the
dignity the new status requires of me.’
The Consul for Norway, H. J. Hof-
gaard, and Madame Hofgaard, who had
sent out cards for a supper-party on
February 16 in honor of his Excellency
the Minister for Norway and Madame
Jorstad, have had to cancel the date owing
to Mr. Hofgaard’s sudden illness. He n
now in hospital.
Walter Magnus, owner of the Savarin,
the long narrow restaurant with the
Dobell murals below George-street, was
host at a party after his own
heart when he arranged a menu 01
cocktail dishes to go with drinks of every
shade and strength and invited the com
mittee of the N.S.W. National Opera 10
be his guests. They, in turn, invited tnei
friends,' everybody paid a subscription
and the opera funds were enriched J
the whole swag. From 5.30 till 7.30
party seethed with chat and champag _
When things got really warmed J
Werner Baer drifted to the piano,
after his numbers Ronald Dowd let to
his fine tenor. q
Dates to remember: Today at
o’clock, meeting in the rooms of
Adult Deaf and Dumb Society ; Gar
exhibition is the subject of J ec j
Trocadero at 12.45 today, lunch prec
by sherry, when the Australian-Ame
Society entertains visiting American te
stars, Louise Brough and Doris &
Thursday 16th, meeting of the
Mayoress’s Relief Fund at 2.30,
Hall. February 11, when Comment .
tion and Old Boys’ Day will be cdew*
at the King’s School, P arra , hra te
February 17, cocktail-party to cel
Chinese New Lunar Year.


Heo***
' menus
mi BETTER
OH
&
dependable
sparkplugs mm
warm
fwmm j
\
m
N
cii
trade mark
factories; feltham, ENG.;
TOLEDO, U.S.A.; WINDSOR, CAN,
4
a*
jL
O
40"SSss//ss/a f s'ss/s/sfrm//s///?yrj*s//ssss, 1 v/sssaww/s/aw//y//^^ /////
T?
i
■Vi J
?=lv<v [ t -
T^W-W&ZKGrsI
gFP' 1 Trs^f.
1 " '■' /y ’* "’"' ■ 1
' JC ;
•CSJrSZ
7 7\ » 1
fiTvs^S)
%
«
<?
T 7
gO
fg
t-
it
r'V*
ft
«6
r
&
Z-
>’A
V-T=
naH
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited, Brewers of good beer since 1835
K8.49.W
SUNDRY SHOWS
The Massey Collection.
The Massey collection, at pre-
sent at Melbourne National
Gallery, was collected by the
Rt. Hon. Vincent Massey, a
Canadian with ambassadorial
status connected with the Mas-
sey-Harris concerns. As High
Commissioner for Canada in
London for 11 years and as
chairman of the trustees of the
National Gallery, London, he
had a first-class opportunity of
getting at what British art was
after, and, as he obviously had
a love of art and no particular
prejudices about it, he was able
to assemble a comprehensive
representation of current
fashions. He has got ’em all in,
and, in fact, the show could
safely be regarded as indicative
of all that is significant and in-
significant in British art for four
decades.
There is relatively good work
in it. “Evening, Hammersmith,”
by Victor Pasmore, has some-
thing of the quality of the “Bent
Tree” of Corot in the Gallery’s
own collection. Mathew Smith’s
“Woman Seated,” “Tulips” and”
“Landscape, Frejus,” give the
same pleasurable shock as the
Felton Bequest’s recent acquisi-
tion by the same artist. The
semi-nude girl strikes your eye
when you first enter, and it is a
wonderful bit of painting. But
if Smith had used the same sub-
dued colors as Rembrandt did
in his self-portrait in the Gal-
lery collection it is to be feared
that it wouldn’t impress much.
Its effect lies in the color, not
in the inner quality of the paint-
ing. It is the inner quality in
the Rembrandt which makes it
glow like a ruby. Without that
inner light it would be a very
drab piece of canvas. In cer-
tain lights a piece of plain white
glass will glow. It seems to
have an enormous depth. In
other lights you can see right
through it and it doesn’t seem
to have any depth at all. It is
the same with pictures. The
Gallery’s Cezanne landscape is
a magnificent painting, but it
doesn’t glow. It has no depth,
and the eye stops almost at the
surface. It hasn’t the inner
quality of the Rembrandt. The
eye sinks into the Rembrandt
and you can look at it again
and again and it never bores
you. That comes from Rem-
brandt’s greater degree of pene-
tration.
There are several works in the
Massey collection which are in
the same class as the Cezanne,
but there are none that could
be said to be in the same class
as the Rembrandt. The only
local picture in the National
Gallery collection that could be
put beside the Rembrandt is
Justus Jorgensen’s self-portrait,
now on tour to country centres.
It, too, glows like a ruby,
though its colors are as sub-
dued as the Rembrandt.
It is this inner light that is
conspicuously lacking in the
Massey collection of contem-
porary English painters. There
is competent and clever painting,
unusual, exotic subject-matter
and the great prestige of some
of the artists, but take all these
away and what have you? Paint-
ings no better than, and in some
cases not as good as, dozens
that have passed unnoticed in
local exhibitions. —F. S.
Studies in Modesty.
A show of “sixes” at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries is what
once would have been a show
of “fives”: which proves how
modest artists really are, for
while everybody else has doubled
the price of their commodities,
pictures have gone up only one
guinea.
Because pictures are sold on
the perfectly absurd principle
that the bigger they are the more
they are worth, this is a show
of modest paintings as well as
modest prices: and, in an age
of arrogance in art, when every-
body is trying to impose his
personality on nature instead of
searching for its secret truths, it
is a very welcome sight.
Painters who can’t paint do
very well to keep their works
small; they may fluke it.
Painters who have modest abili-
ties do well to keep within their
limitations. Painters who, like
Roland Wakelin, Russell Drys-
dale and George Duncan, tend to
be overpowering in their large
compositions are often seen at
their best in small works.
Then there are painters like
Paul Jones who have specialised
in smallness. And there are
painters like George Lawrence,
winner of the latest Wynne
Prize, who, though perfectly
capable of harmoniously and
modestly filling a large canvas,
can be seen at least to equal
advantage in smaller works.
So, for one reason or another,
this is an admirable little exhi-
bition, and one is not surprised
that it has sold particularly well.
The paintings that have most to
say within their six guineas’
worth of space are those by
George Lawrence, Russell Drys-
dale, Enid Cambridge, Roland
Wakelin, Adrian Feint, Muriel
and Diana Medworth, Alison
Rehfisch, George Duncan, Grace
Cossington Smith, Paul Jones,
Ena Joyce and Yvonne du
Moulin.
“Lost Boundaries."
This very fine film at Mel-
bourne Savoy deals with the pre-
dicament of the brilliant young
student who graduates as a
doctor from one of those col-
leges where white and negro are
co-educated, marries a girl who
looks as white as he does, and
when he seeks to practise comes
up against the awful latent pre-
judice against color.
He “passes”— i.e., he decides
for one year to pass himself off
as a white man, as do many of
his fellows, until he has got him-
self established, after which he
will frankly proclaim himself a
negro. But children arrive and
they defer the crisis. He returns
to his hometown, and becomes
the beloved “Doc” to all and
sundry. The war breaks out
and he enlists as a lieutenant-
commander and his son as an
A. 8., but the Navy investigates
his history.
If his son and daughter had
been told that their parents had
bequeathed them leprosy they
could not have been more horri-
fied and disgusted with them-
selves than they are when they
are told that they are negroes.
The family goes to pieces,
but then .the father decides to
“In the book he strangles her with piano-wire .”
make an effort and returns to
the town where he is now known
for what he is, and goes on as
if nothing had happened. The
parson preaches a sermon on
how Christ would have acted-in
that situation, and the congrega-
tion is momentarily touched and
everybody shakes hands. We
are asked to believe that the pre-
judice has been eliminated, and
that is the only false note in the
picture. If it were as easy as
that, if people’s associations
could be changed by listening to
a 40-minute sermon —or, for that
matter, looking at an 80-minute
picture—this world would be a
lovely garden.
The best feature of the film is
its humanity. There aren’t any
scoundrels in it, and the negroes
are as dignified or undignified as
the whites, and vice versa. Mel
Ferrier as the white doctor with
a tinge of color turns in a mag-
nificent performance.
"Daybreak."
This striking Rank film con-
cerns a hangman, Eric Portman,
and the impact on his private
life of his secret profession. He
shaves and cuts hair by day and
hangs by night, and seems to be
unaffected by his grim trade.
Then his father, whom he hasn’t
seen for years, dies, and as next-
of-kin he inherits 15 spritties—
Thames barges. Thoughts of
matrimony enter his head, he
picks up with a young lady, Ann
Todd, marries her and goes to
live on one of his barges.
His wife is devoted to him
and they are very happy, but he
has these mysterious dates to
attend to —March 3, Exeter;
April 10, Manchester; June 5,
Birmingham—and his wife be-
gins to be vaguely apprehensive.
A handsome young barge-hand
with a foreign accent and all the
sureness of the lover in “The
Baker’s Wife” begins to take an
interest in her loneliness and
isolation on the river. There is
a fight/ the hangman is pitched
overboard and his rival is
charged with his murder.
There is another date to be
attended to, and the hangman is
there to perform his office, for
he has not been murdered but
has crawled out of the Thames
mud-damaged but
his wife has suicided. The hang-
man recognises his rival and
marches out towards the gallows
at the head of the procession
with policemen dragging the
screaming victim behind him.
For sheer poignant realism
this scene could hardly be
equalled. Then the hangman
breaks down, screams that he
can’t do it and tells the whole
story. Then he goes back to his
barber’s shop and performs his
office on himself. The story is
told without histrionics or one
false gesture and acted with per-
fect restraint by Ann Todd and
Eric Portman.
"When the Bough
Breaks."
Here, in film form, is an un-
usually sympathetic treatment of
a problem which, in real life,
has had an extended airing in
Melbourne law courts. A
mother who discovers that
the father of her just-born
baby is a bigamist gets it
adopted. The couple who
adopt it are perfectly nice people
and love the child and bring it
up as their own in
an environment of
wealth and com-
fort. The mother
marries a lollyshop
proprietor, a nice
man, too, but they
ultimately come to
the conclusion that
their union won’t
be blessed with off-
spring. The mother
now begins to yearn
for her own child.
now eight, and devoted to his
“parents.” There is intense grief
in his home when the law re-
stores him to his actual mother.
Everything in his new home
violates the boy’s associations —
the shop, the customers and the
squalid backyard. The blood-
relationship has no meaning for
the child, although it has a lot
of meaning for his mother, who
becomes harsh and repressive.
When the boy runs away and
returns to his foster-parents the
stepfather sees that love can’t
be engendered by the policeman’s
baton and induces his wife to
give the child up. English actors
do these simple domestic stories
so well that you seem to be
looking on at something real.
Patricia Roc and Rosamund
John are particularly good, and
the boy is well nigh perfect.


FATHER ENTERTAINS
By M.G. VINCENT
THE three girls in the big back bed-
room and the small boy on the
glassed-in veranda lay silent in their
beds, listening to the heavy rain.
The clock in the kitchen struck seven,
and hearing it the children stirred rest-
lessly. They were tired of counting the
knot whorls in the unpainted lining and
seeking for pictures and faces in the
grain patterns; but a wet Sunday was
too precious an argosy to launch on the
wrong set of slips, and none of them cared
to risk rousing the father unceremoniously
on this day of days.
At half-past seven, Jane, the youngest
girl, peered through the window at the
small boy.
“Is the water on the Rec.?” she
whispered.
“Yes,” said the boy. “All over it.”
“Is the shed still there?”
“A course,” said the boy. “A course
it tis. The shed’s always there.”
Unfortunately this was true, thought
the children. Many years ago, so the
tale ran, the creek had come up and
washed the shed away. Somehow it
seemed to them that this was all a fairy-
tale because, however hard and long it
rained and however deep the water rose
on the recreation-ground, the shed still
stood, looking for 'all the world like a
glorified school-lavatory.
AT last the murmur of low voices
came from the front bedroom; then
the mother called. “What’s the time,
Marian?”
“Hold my legs. Pen, while I look,”
said Marian.
Penelope did not stir.
“Hold my legs, you pig,” hissed Marian,
giving Pen a kick.
Penelope groaned.
“Marian kicked me,” she wailed, not
opening her eyes.
“I hate you,” breathed Marian, jumping
out of bed and throwing the clothes off
Pen.
“Ten to eight,” she called from the
kitchen.
“What ho! How the time flies; I
thought it was six,” came the father’s
voice, mellow with benevolence. “Up
you get, all of you, or you’ll be late for
Sunday-school.”
“But it’s raining. It’s pouring,”
shrieked Marian and Jane.
“Nonsense,” said the father. “I can’t
hear a sound.”
The clear laughter of the mother set
the children laughing, and they sat hug-
ging their knees, except Penelope, who
lay cuddled in her cosy hollow, a faint
smile on her sleepy, placid face. Now the
wet Sunday had been officially opened
they waited happily for their father’s next
move. After a while he began to sing
pleasantly, “Oh, it’s nice to get up in the
morning but it’s nicer to lie in bed.”
At the conclusion of the song he
bellowed: “Out! Out of bed and get
ready for Sunday-school, you heathens! ”
“The water’s up on the rec.,” cried
Marian.
“The shed’s washed away,” chanted
Jane, all her dimples twinkling.
“What’s that?” cried the father, and
Jane repeated the words, shrieking.
They heard faint stirrings in the front
room and Jane, followed by Marian,
crept up the hall and peeped into the bed-
room. There at the French-doors, hitch-
ing his pyjamas up from his lean hips,
stood the father, looking down at the
flooded recreation-ground. Jane giggled.
He swung round, and, raising a hand to
hide his smiling lips, his muffled voice
said, “Ho! What are you laughing at?”
He jumped back into bed, pulling the
clothes up to his chin. “I thought I
told you to get up and get ready for
Sunday-school. Do you want to grow up
a lot of heathens?”
The little boy pattered into the room,
his wide blue eyes filled with the wonder
of things to come. He scrambled on to
the high bed and wormed down between
his mother and father. “Play guesses,”
he instructed confidently.
JANE and Marian twirled the
enamelled, beflowered balls at
the end of the iron bedstead.
Round and round the silvered rods
danced the wild fuchsias and the
flannel-flowers. The bed began
to shiver with the excitement of
the squirming boy. The white canopy
with its yellow silk lining billowed and
set the glistening yellow bobbles on the
fringe dancing. “Guess the money, guess
the money,” chanted the children. Pene-
lope, enveloped in an eiderdown, trailed
into the room and subsided on to the
bed, yawning.
“I have no money. I’ve spent it all
feeding you gluttons,” mumbled the
father.
Marian shook his trousers, which hung
by their braces from the huge pagoda-
like silver knob at the end of the bed-
rail. The money jingled in the pockets.
“One pound. Two pound and three-
pence and one penny,” shrieked the little
boy, kicking the clothes up into a palpi-
tating cone.
“Now then, son,” said the father
quietly. “If you want to stay here, lie
still.”
The clothes subsided like a cooling
meringue. The mother cuddled the little
boy.
“Now then, now then,” cautioned the
father as Marian and Jane seized the
trousers and wrestled with the long in-
verted pockets. He sat up and snatched
at the trousers, falling back on to the
high pillows with the garment clutched
to his chest. He put a hand into a pocket
and brought out some money. “Now
then, how much?” His grey eyes stared
fiercely at the crescent of expectant faces.
The game went on for half an hour,
the father becoming more exultant in his
“No. All wrong,” till at last, for the
first time in the history of the game, the
mother guessed the right amount: ten
shillings and sevenpence. When the
father tried to put the money back into
the pocket there was a dreadful hubbub.
Marian and Jane sat on his chest; James’s
little fingers poked like skewers at his
ribs; Penelope pinched at his leaping
toes. At last the money was safely in the
mother’s keeping, and all was peace again.
Breathlessly, Marian said, “And don’t give
it back to him either, Mummy, when
we’re not looking.”
“No, indeed,” said the mother.
“One, two, three, out!” boomed the
father, heaving his arms and legs so that
the children tumbled all over the bed.
“Ray, mind, for goodness’ sake. You’ll
break a limb !”
“Nonsense,” said the father. “One,
two, three, out. And Marian, light the
fire. Bacon and pufftaloons for break-
fast!”
“Why should I always light the fire?
Make Pen.”
“Oh, no,” cried the mother. “I want
some fire to come out to, if you want
bacon and fried scones.”
“She can make a fire if she wants to,
but she just doesn’t so as to get out of
work,” moaned Marian, dragging her feet
across the linoleum.
BREAKFAST ended in a wild scramble
for the last pufftaloon, which lay in
golden splendor on the crumpled brown
paper,
“Pen’s inching her hand,” yelled Jane.
“Her hand,” mimicked Pen.
They all looked at Pen’s brown paw
lying like a watchful mouse by the plate.
“Ho! ” said the father, seizing the
scone. With a wide grin he surveyed the
astounded faces, “That’ll save a lot of
trouble,” he said.
.Quite contentedly they watched him
eat the scone,
“Now, James and I will sit on the
veranda and survey the scene while you
girls help your mother,”
“Help!” echoed the mother, already
gathering the dishes.
“Marian, you make the beds; and Pen
and Jane can wipe up.”
The father and the small boy sat on
the rocking-chair on the front veranda,
the father humming and picking at his
teeth with a pointed match. Every now
and again he would say, “Send it down,
Peter!” or “Croak, croak, went the little
Mr. Bullfrog.” When he sang “Stop
your tickling, tickle, ickle, ickling, Jock,”
James would writhe in ecstasy. Once he
said, “Yes, and it lifted the shed like a
matchbox, and off it went bobbing like
a cork and ended up on top of the black-
berry bushes right there near Dyers’.
When the flood went down we had a
dickens of a job to get it back, too.”
“Mmmm,” said the little boy, nodding
his head and fixing his big eyes on the
shed as though any moment he might
have the privilege of seeing it bob off
Once he had thrown a cork into the
drain when the mother was letting the
washing-water surge out, and as he had
watched the cork, he had said in a high
whisper, “And away went the shed, bob-
bing like a cork! ”
There was a terrible shriek from the
backyard, and in a moment, pounding
around the veranda in their wellingtons,
came Pen and Jane.
“Faf old Pen, squatting like a hen,”
sang Jane.
“Daddy, I was in the ‘w.’ and she came
and stuck a dahlia through the little door
at the back!”
“And it had a bloodsucking leech on
it,” chanted Jane. “And it isn’t there
now. Serve you right. You only went
to get out of the wiping-up.”
“Marian, is there a leech?” Pen tore
into the front bedroom.
il \\f FIAT ho!” said the father. “Are
W you all ready?”
“Wait for me!” cried Marian. When
she joined them her hair was in a tangle
about her face and she was panting.
“Line up,” commanded the father, put-
ting James on his feet. “Now, what’s
the first item on the programme?”
“Simon says,” shrieked the children.
“No! ” gloated the father. He surveyed
their questioning faces. “Nits!” he said,
with the smugness of a conjurer who has
somehow managed to produce an elephant
instead of a rabbit. “Out with the tooth-
comb, Marian,” he ordered, beginning to
unplait Jane’s fair hair. “And bring the
brush.”
“Me—can I have nits, too?” cried
Jimmy.
“Certainly,” said the father, with great
cordiality. “By all means,”
Marian brought the comb and brush.
He regarded the comb with distaste.
“Get your mother to scald it,” he said.
The mother’s voice came instantly and
tartiy: “You scald it yourself. I’m busy.
And they haven’t any nits. They haven’t
been .near anyone to get them.”
“Everyone stands a chance of catching
nits,” said the father emphatically, not
to be done out of the search. “They
jump.”
“Oh, Do they really and truly?” asked
Marian.
“Certainly. Like kangaroos,” said the
father, taking the comb back. He looked
at it intently, then shook it, rubbed it
against his trousers, blew through it, in-
spected it. “It’ll do,” he decided.
It took him half an hour to do the
hair. Every now and again he would call
out in mock alarm, “Here’s one! ” They
would all bend over the comb. “Where?
Where?”
“Ah, no, I made a mistake.”
Their hair brushed and braided again,
and James’s neatly parted, they all stood
in a row and waited for “Simon says.”
On and on went the game until at last
the father lost his enthusiasm. His hand
went to his pocket. “Come and get a
bull’s-eye,” he invited, opening the bag.
Only Marian remained staunch. “You
didn’t say ‘Simon says’,” she cried primly.
“Dear me, no,” said the father, putting
away the bag. The three children tumbled
about him trying to get their hands into
his pockefs. Up and down the veranda
they raced; and at last, breathless, he
brought out the bag again. One each he
gave them, and two to Marian because
she had stood firm and won the game.
THE mother appeared, her face a bright
pink from bending over the stove.
“If you’re going to bath them, you
better get a move on. It’s nearly 12, and
dinner will be ready sharp at one, and
I’m not going to keep it in the stove a
minute after or it’ll be spoiled.”
“And if it’s spoiled I won’t eat it,”
said the father. “Come on.”
Through the kitchen they trooped,
sniffing up big as they passed the stove,
which was crowded with pots and radiat-
mg a fierce heat. The saliva flooded their
mouths.
“Hurry, hurry! ” they cried. “We want
dinner.”
“You gluttons,” said the father. “You
heathenish little gluttons.”
He half-filled the hath. James did not
want to get in with the girls and hid
under the curtain-surrounded table.
“You can sit at the back,” said the
father.
“And then hell see us," objected
Penny, with concern. “Mrs. Higgins
says it’s not right to bath us all
together.”
“Blast Mrs. Higgins,” said the father,
The bathing proceeded according to
rule. Backs were scrubbed, ears turned
inside out; soles of feet scrubbed, each
toe and finger separated, and then, as the
grand finale, six dippers full of water
were cascaded down each child’s back.
“Marian! Out!” boomed the father.
“Out and set the table.”
“Make Penny. She hasn’t done any-
thing yet. The big, fat thing."
“Big, fat thing,” whispered Penny,
giving Marian one of her twisting pinches.
“One day I’ll kill you!” cried Marian,
leaping from the bath.
“Jane can wipe-up and Penelope wash-
up,” said the father. “All by herself.
And no dodging off on urgent calls, ray
lady. Hear that? Or you’ll get more than
leeches on your tail.”
WHEN they catapulted from the bath-
room the mother was taking the
plates from the oven and placing them on
the table. Roasted fowl with stuffing and
rich brown gravy ; crisp roasted potatoes
and pumpkin, carrots in white sauce and
young green peas.
“Into it, you gutses,” breathed the
father with delight, and paused dor a
moment to watch the busy forks filling the
anxious mouths. “Guts!” he cried in
triumph, slapping his chest with supreme
content.
When the last mouthful of apple-pie
and custard disappeared, the mother gave
her lips a final lick, and asked “Well,
how was it?”
“Super!” cried the children as one
voice.
“Not bad. Not bad at all,” said the
father.
While the washing-up wrangled to its
conclusion the father and the little boy
sat again on the front veranda. Another
sharpened match appeared. Again the
father kept saying, “Send it down, Peter,
and “Croak, croak went the little Mr
Bullfrog.” But he did not sing P°P
Goes the Weasel,” or “Stop Your
Tickling,” because his gentle hands m
the little belly, tight as a drum. « e
rubbed his chin fiercely on the soft downy
head and looked through the rain at t -
rising water on the recreation-groun •
“Yes,” he said, driven to it at last, an
there it went” .. H ,
“Bobbing like a cork,” finished the lit
boy proudly. , m
“That’s right. Bobbing like a cork m
it snagged on the blackberry bushes.
HT HE girls arrived and sat on the fl° Cl
* by the father’s rocking-chair.
“Well, what now? Eh? What now.
“Stories,” they cried. “About Atr
and New Zealand.”
“I’ll tell you one. That’s all.
“The one about you and Unde K
and the lion,” cried Marian.
“Yes. That one.” .. .
So the father told them about the
in the darkest jungle of Africa. j
“And,” he ended dramatically, a
came racing towards the high cliff, l .
the hot breath of the lion singeing
hair off my head, and shrivelling
scalp. I called out to your uncle
ready, and just at the right split-se
I fell flat on my face, and the
being able to pull up, went right
me and landed on your uncles -. aQ
stretched hands. With a superh ,
effort he used his hands as a spring
to catapult the lion into the chasm
As it fell it let out such a roar tow
wildlife fled from that jungle and
returned.”
A WE-STRICKEN, the children
TW- silence, gazing up at their fat “ hilllD g,
mouths slightly open and e Y es . vThad
When the glpry of the adventur


dimmed a little, the look of expectancy
gradually returned, and the father, glanc-
ing at them, cried, “Good Lord! What
are you after now?”
“You know,” they yelled, laughing.
“I know what?” '
“Coconut-ice.”
“What about coconut-ice?”
“You make it on wet Sundays.”
The father rocked the chair briskly.
“Don’t know the first thing about it.”
The mother, who was now lying on the
leather-couch in the bedroom, reading a
book, said plaintively: “I don’t think
there’s any coconut.”
“What! No coconut?” cried the father
incredulously, resting back on the
rockers. They all looked into the bed-
room, and on their faces was a horrified
condemnation.
The mother laid down the book, and
because she really believed there was no
coconut, she was cross. “You roared so
about last month’s bill and said so much
about luxuries that I just didn’t order
any.”
“Ridiculous,” said the father, very
annoyed. “Coconut isn’t a luxury, it’s a
necessity. How am I going to make
coconut-ice without any damn’ coconut?”
“Oh, dear, I always do the wrong
thing,” said the mother tearfully as she
hoisted herself off the couch. “Perhaps
there is a little tucked away somewhere.”
They all followed her into the kitchen
and crowded, shuffling and pushing,
behind her as she searched in the big
cupboard.
“What a disgraceful muddle! ” bel-
lowed the father, by now very anxious
about the coconut.
The mother dived on a packet that
its top crumpled well down. She breathed
a deep sigh of relief and handed it to the
father. “There,” she said, “and don’t
use my new saucepan, and don’t do it in
the kitchen and don’t let the milk boil
over.”
“Now we’ll see what we shall see.”
declared the father pontifically.
r* OLLECTING saucepans, forks,
spoon, cups and the canister of sugar
he distributed these among the children,
and so laden they all walked solemnly to
the laundry table.
First the primus was filled to the brim.
Then, when it was lit, it was pumped till
the flames shot out with the force of a
blowlamp. The primus tottered on its
legs.
The mother cried out in alarm and
came hurriedly to the door. “Let out
some air immediately,” she shrilled, “or
it’ll explode.”
“Don’t tell me how to manage
primuses,” said the father, measuring out
milk. “Haven’t I been managing one for
years under the metal-pot?”
“Mismanaging, you mean. You’ll blow
the whole linotype up one day. I
know.”
The father began to murmur “One ;
two ; now I’ve lost count. What’ve I
done? Go away. The thing’s all right.
Who knows how many?”
Jane said “You have done this many,”
and she tilted up an imaginary cup four
times.
“Ho,” said the father. “That’s right,
then. On it goes. And while it’s coming
to the boil I’ll just measure you all. Get
the tape, Marian.”
As Jane’s height was being marked
against the back of the laundry door the
milk boiled over.
“Close quickly the
door,” whispered the father.
There was a hush as he
attended to the primus and
Marian mopped up the milk ;
but in spite of their precautions
the mother appeared, sniffing.
“Ah, I thought so. There now.
I knew that would happen,”
she said, very annoyed indeed.
“Ha, did you?” said the
father, trying to spread a care-
free grin over his face and only
managing to look comically
guilty,
“And there is no more milk.
I want the rest for creamed
salmon.”
“More luxuries,” said the
father, trying to bring a smile
to her face.
“Well, we’ll have bread and
butter,” she snapped. “Oh
dear, just look at the poor
primus, and the smell’s all
through the house.”
“No, no., It’s a wet Sunday; creamed
salmon,” chorused the children, cluster-
ing around her. The mother began to
smile, so the father said in a very satis-
fied tone “Gutses,” and turned back to
his cooking.
“I think there’s enough milk, anyway,”
he said. “I allowed for such a con-
tingency.”
“What’s that?” asked Marian.
“A wigwam for a goose’s bridle,” he
replied, mixing the coconut.
WHEN the sweet was made the dish
was placed to cool in a tub with
water.
“And now while that’s cooling we’ll
make a fire to sweeten up your Mum,”
said the father, grinning wickedly at the
children.
They were all very busy with the fire-
making for some time, holding up sheets
of paper and feeding small smoulders
with half-damp twigs/ because it had
been raining for such a long time there
was no dry kindling left. When it was
well alight they escorted the mother from
the bedroom, pointing out how they had
arranged a nice lot of firewood on the
side bricks so that she would have no
trouble with her fire the next day.
By this time the water on the primus
was hot enough for the washing-up, and
when everything was put away it was time
to test the coconut.
“What ho! Set like concrete,” cried
the father. “Bring the knife, Marian.
And a plate. Bring a plate, too.”
No cutting of a wedding-cake was ever
breathed over with such awe and rever-
ence as was the cutting of the coconut-
ice. Six pieces were cut. Two big pieces,
three smaller pieces, and one little block
for James.
“And now,” said the father, “before
one crumb of this is consumed, you
gluttons, every tooth has to be examined.”
Penny, who rather suspected a flaw in
a back tooth, blanched perceptibly.
“We’ve just been looked at the other
day,” she mumbled.
“Teeth!” rumbled the father, herding
them on to the front veranda. There, in
order of age, he lined them up. With
heads well back and mouths open to the
fullest extent, so that their ears ached
and they whimpered low within their
throats, the children endured a thorough
examination of each tooth in their heads.
The father eventually fixed his gimlet eye
on a small speck in one of Pen’s back
teeth and said “What! ” in a tone of such
dire portent that poor Pen shivered all
over.
“No, no,” she cried, twisting.
“Marian! Look at this,” commanded
the father.
Reluctantly Marian looked. “It could
be a seed;” she said dismally.
“H’m,” said the father, looking very
black indeed, “You go and have that
seen to tomorrow. Grace! Do you
hear? Penelope is to go to the dentist
tomorrow. There is a hole in a double
tooth, left side, upper jaw.” The way he
said this made it seem that Penelope had
consumption at least. However, by the
time he had finished with James’s small
perfect pearls his equilibrium was re-
stored, and, surveying their anxious faces
with a loving benevolence, he announced;
“Well, I don’t suppose a small piece will
kill you.”
A deep sigh of relief came as one
sound from the four children, and with
happy faces they opened their mouths,
still red from his hands, and he popped
into each one the pink-and-white square.
Slapping their lips in delighted enjoy-
ment, they all sat on the veranda, look-
ing at the rain, the Recreation Ground
and the shed that would not be swept
away.
At, last the father raised his hands
above his head and stretched mightily.
“Heigh-ho,” he yawned. “Heigh-ho.
Where’re the papers? Marian, get me the
papers.”
He gave each of the heads a pat and
walked in to the fire. The children
crowded in after him and watched him
as he pulled the old brown chair up to
the fire. He polished his glasses;
wedged his shoulders well into the spongy
back of the chair; wriggled about for a
few seconds, and then, as he took the
papers from Marian and selected one,
tearing off the wrapper from the pink
cover, he said:
“Now, no nonsense. And if you want
to talk go out on the veranda, I’m going
to read.”
He did not even glance at them, but
stared dreamily at the fire.
With this command the wet Sunday
was finished with, lock, stock and barrel,
and even the promise of creamed salmon
suddenly became the prelude to bed and
the flatness of Monday.
Chegully of Nockaburraway
By H. J. BELL
HE was named Chegully, meaning
freckle-face, by the station blacks,
Robert Platt didn’t mind the abo-
nginal monicker. He was always
good-tempered and well-liked by every-
body. He was a resourceful boss and of
a friendly and obliging disposition.
Nockaburraway—meaning, in the native
tongue, Nocka (water) burraway (sand-
hill)—was a fine permanent waterhole on
the lower Wilson River; it was an out-
station of Nockatunga—native meaning
Nocka (water) tunga (stinking)—and was
a permanent waterhole on the Wilson
about forty-five miles above .Nocka-
burraway. The head-station was built
on its bank.
Old Bob said that the 1906 flood was
a record as far as white men knew • it
almost came up to the hut at Nocka-
burraway.
xt., , ,
Brothers. “S PlaHwafin
a khid of
prize-winners at any show: pumpkins
watermelons, rockmelons and different
kinds of fruit-trees, and that Chinaman
knew how to coax vegetables from the
sod, and the earth was first class
i-pv u “ nrsl class -
Ibe Hughes Brothers would never
am? er Chinese gardeners
m i.ybelieved m that speci-
anH m Un T dy £ or tkat C^ass work
and many odd jobs required about the
homestead such as laundry work, etc.
mere were the plains and ridges with
eir numerous growths, such as Mitchell,
ut’ lUt1 Ut S n nd grasses, and
sa tbush, bluebush, cottonbush and buck-
ush, and the top grasses, such as mulga
t a wood and other edible bushes, and
on the floodwater country, when the
.waters receded, cloyer, sorghum, crows-
foot, trefoil, polygnum and numerous
others, all good fatteners.
Along the Wilson the red and white
eucalyptus-trees looked colorful. Among
their foliage thousands of white cockatoos
and galahs rested, and they weren’t
alone; coolibahs, willows and bean-trees
were the habitations of budgerigars, mud-
larks > diamond-sparrows, kingfishers,
magpies, crows, hawks, cranes, and
numerous small birds,
On the waterholes were ducks, black
teal, spoonbill, wood- and musk-duck,
geese and waterhens with red bills and
legs scqpting along the edge of water-
holes. When Chegully wanted a change
from beef to poultry he had no trouble,
as *e Chinese cook would fix the menu ;
f nd don 1 f , orget plam turkey : pi f eo , n ’
ka "froo-tail soup, emu steak, duck
mullet, perch, eel and others from land
and water.
d U th w ? s £asc! " at ‘ n f ‘° watch . the b . ro,gas
■
No wonder ■ wcr f bappy , m
Chegully s land They made their own
foments .Chegully inventedla riddle:
W? wa ! Two . B ° bs P ub S°“th-
western Queensland? Because it had a
Wilson in it (Anna Wilson) to drain the
flats.
The bushmen would visit the small
towns very rarely, perhaps a local race-
meeting or to record their votes,
O TOCKMEN made their own green-
hide ropes, twisted or plaited, and
bridles with many varieties of Turks’-
heads fashioned thereon, and different
sorts of hobble-straps ; hat-straps ; belts,
either greenhide or kangaroo-leather ;
and stockwhips, mainly of kangaroo-
leather.
The best stockwhips were loaded with
shot sewn into a canvas or kangaroo-
leather casing; most whips had pjaited
r e n 1 i eS ‘ cP : '; lkl ." 1 tb n o L , ° aCC r
makers the^sreat''artists were
Charles Gasher and James Abbott, of the
’eighties and ’nineties and the early part
of this century. Charles Gasher plaited
a stockwhip of one hundred and twenty-
eight strands. He sent it to the Mel-
bourne Exhibition and it was presented
to King Edward the Seventh afterwards.
Alex. Scobie, of Oorewillannie, on the
Birdsville track, later was a real cham-
pion whipmaker and plaiter of bridles.
belts and other necessary droving articles.
His whips would only have to be thrown
nnt tn
p .
Stockmen made their own stockwhip-
handles, mostly from mulga, gidyea and
deadfinish (a small but very tough timber
with small green needle-shaped spikes as
foliage). And wouldn’t some of those
bushmen carve to decorate those whip-
handles—finishing off generally with a
horse’s foot at the butt-end of the handle
shod with a silver horseshoe made out of
a two-shilling piece and tacked on with
pins cut down! Chegully had one of
thnsp whins
th _. se T ,
Paddy Paddy was a waterhole on
the Baldy Plains, with a hut and horse-
paddock near by. It was one of the
mustering camps, with branding- and
drafting-yards handy. At piccaninny
daylight the order would be called out:
“Daylight,” by Chegully, and after a
quick breakfast, at sunrise every
second morning, twenty stockmen
would ride out over the plains
for at least eight miles, then muster
the cattle into a point within four miles
of the yards and have their lunch there,
then cut out the calves and
any fat bullocks. The cows and calves
would be driven to the branding-yards
and the bullocks to the bullock-paddock.
Next morning the calves would be
branded, and generally the work would
be completed by midday. After that the
stockmen were their own bosses until
Chegully called “Daylight” on the next
morning.
Some of the men would play mumble-
peg with pocketknives, for sticks of
tobacco. Others would try their luck on
a buckjumper ; some would take the rifle
and bring, a plain turkey or kangaroo-
tail home.
Black-boys would carry a kangaroo
carcass in on their heads to roast, other
natives would go to the waterhole *md
seek mussels, crayfish, crabs, fish and
eels and duck eggs and other native foods
such as goannas, carneys, bardies and
yams. The natives had a wonderful
variety of foods to choose from.
J N a tree, about a mile out among the
1 ridges, was the body of a dead native.
The corpse was littered with earth, grass
and leaves. Directly underneath the re-
mains were placed medium-sized stones,
about three or four pounds in weight,
and the waste from the dead body fell
on to those stones. The old men of the
tribe collected that substance and smeared
the young men who were relatives of the
departed with it, rubbing it over their
heads and bodies.
Curramitchie Jimmy had a greenstone
axe-head and he had a fairly sharp edge
on it. Chegully was curious and asked
old Curramitchie where he got it, as old
Chegully knew there was no stone like
that in the Grey Range. “I been catch
’im Copperamanny Creek ’longa Nappa
Merrie.” Yes, those green-colored stones,
as hard as flint, came from a quarry
about twenty miles south of Nappa
Merrie station, and were distributed over
hundreds of miles in the interior of this
continent among different tribes, as also
was the pituri from west of the Georgina,
and the ochre from Parachilna in the
Flinders Ranges. Nardoo-stones could
be procured from different localities.
{Continued on page 32.)


I
The 1950
Vickers
Cocktail Book
brings you ...
exciting
new
cocktail
recipes
Cocktail mixing Is fun.
With the new FREE
1950 Vickers Cocktail
Book you can't make
a mistake in mixing
appetising dry, sweet
or medium cocktails
and refreshing, long
drinks.
Prominent among the
recipes is “The Double
Century", a NEW
cocktail which cele-
brates our 200 years
of tradition.
FOR YOUR FREE COPY of the
NEW, 1950 Vickers Gin Cocktail
Book, write to The United Distillers
Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 759 G, Eliza-
beth St., Melbourne. It will be
mailed promptly, post free.
Vickers
¥ GIN
• « ■ 3 People in 5 choose Vickers.
The greatest name in Gin . .
from Australia’s greatest distillery.
200
YEARS
OF
TRADITION
1750-1950
VG33/16
*
V
WITH AN
AGA
HEAT-STORAGE COOKEB
No switches to turn, no gas to light! • Your AGA
is ready day and night! Featherlight cakes . . . superb
roasts . , , grills done to a sizzling turn! Thanks to even,
scientifically distributed heat, the AGA cooks every type
of food to perfection. And no matter how much you
cook you can’t increase ( the AGA’s fuel-bills, for this
British-made cooker has a guaranteed maximum fuel con
sumption! The AGA is guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
DEMONSTRATION
Come and see the AGA Cooker in actionl Admire
its smiling chromium plate, and sparkling easy*
to-clean, cream-coloured, enamel.
LEVIN AND COMPANY LIMITED
Sol© Agents for AGA Heat Storage Cooke*
45 King Street, Sydney. 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Cnr. Margaret & Albert Streets, Br ' s ,k° ne - U .
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd Hobart
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth.
A 5
Busman's HOLIDAY
By E.O.SCHLUNKE
IN the days when the wheat-
lands of the Riverina were
only half-cleared there could
sometimes be heard in the
depths of the scrub a horrible
and terrifying noise which the
settlers attributed, half-seriously.
to the bunyip. But Albie
Kleinert, who knew as much
about the scrub as anyone,
though he was still, nominally at
least, a schoolboy, claimed that
the noise was made by a com-
paratively small and quite in-
offensive-looking grey bird ; and
he averred that anyone who was
afraid of it was a poor, silly
mutt.
Notwithstanding its retiring
habits, fairly regularly on Satur-
day mornings the squawkous-
bird’s cry (a bit refined and sub-
dued, as if civilisation was
having its effect) sounded from
the back of the Weismanns’
stable, and as soon as youn’g
Otto could disentangle himself
from his mother’s Saturday pas-
sion for cleanliness he’d slip
round the sheds and discover
Albie there, holding his string
of hunting-dogs in leash.
Then off they’d go hunting,
rabbits mainly, but always hop-
ing for a fox. It was, they con-
sidered, essentially a matter of
equipment. Albie had added
bigger and faster dogs borrowed
from his elder brothers and a
badly-leaded rifle. From week
to week he lived in hopes of ac-
quiring a good rifle of his own,
when the old Winchester would
be given to his young friend,
Hence every Saturday was a time
of eager anticipation for Otto.
CT O imagine his disappoint-
O m ent on a fine spring morn-
ing when Albie not only didn’t
yet have his new rifle, but
hadn’t his old one, either, nor
even any dogs,
There was something funny
a bout his appearance, too; his
eyes, always full of warm
friendliness and eager with life,
had a baffled and uncertain look
that made Otto ask him if his
parents had forbidden him to go
hunting.
But Albie said “Pooh” to his
parents; then explained hurriedly
that he was going to see “old
Gus Schaeffel,” who no longer
went to school; and that he
couldn’t take dogs or guns be-
cause Gus’s father didn’t like
people going hunting on his
property.
To a shrewd young fellow like
Otto all this was manifestly
false, from the affectionate “old
Gus” to the deference to the
wishes of his father. Hitherto
it had been Albie’s delight to re-
gale Otto with stories of how
he and his brothers had shot
and trapped over the Schaeffel
farm, outwitting, bamboozling
and (when caught) defying old
Schaeffel,
Albie kept striding on towards
Schaeffel’s with Otto’s questions
assailing him like magpies dart-
ing at an eagle; his rather
heavy face, with its strong jaw
and high cheekbones, and his
slightly slanting eyes still look-
ing uneasy beneath his undi-
verted determination.
Although they approached
Schaeffel’s farm by an unusual
route, they were in no doubt
when they reached it. The
boundary-fence shouted that
here was a man who never let
a rabbit in to eat his grass, and
whose stock never got a chance
to escape and lose themselves.
The wires above the netting, so
close together and so tightly
strained that they twanged when
the boys struggled through,
seemed to be telegraphing a
message to Schaeffel that in-
truders had entered his
property; and the boys looked
back at the fence to see if there
wasn’t a quicker way of getting
through in case their next pas-
sage was more hurried.
ONCE on the farm Otto,
brought up to admire in-
dustry, thrift, good farming and
prosperity, saw much to ap-
prove, but it only made the
problem of Albie’s visit more
puzzling. Albie’s family were the
worst farmers in the district; the
very opposites of Schaeffel in
every respect, and that alone
was enough to make Schaeffel
dislike them, even if they hadn’t
harassed him with their deliber-
ate and mischievous trespassing.
“We might see old Schaeffel
pop out from behind a tree with
a gun any minute now,” said
Albie in a mournfully proud
sort of voice, as if he intended
to allow himself to be shot for
some deep and secret reason.
Nevertheless, he took the pre-
caution of dodging behind a
bush when they first caught sight
of human movement, and it was
only after elaborate scouting
manoeuvres had established that
the “enemy” were only a couple
of workmen sawing through a
large tree with a crosscut-saw
that they exposed themselves.
They* said “Hulloo” to Bert
Grosser and Karl Tepper, old
acquaintances of theirs, and
walked up for a yarn. But the
two men gave them the merest
glances from eyes that held a
fury of concentration and went
on sawing at a ridiculous pace
for men who were paid by the
day. The boys stared at them
in astonishment; then they
backed away a bit, feeling that
something uncanny was going
on.
“They look as if they’re try-
ing to see who can keep the pace
up longest,” whispered Albie.
“And neither of them will give
in.”
But they both knew that
wasn’t a sufficient explanation.
“They used to work at our
place,” said Otto. “But they
never worked like that.”
They stood there for a while
hoping that the men were hav-
ing a joke with them ; but
though the sweat rolled off
them, and their faces were red,
and they panted for breath, they
kept on working at that furious
pace with the same furious
faces.
A LBIE , loo l ke f at .9?°’
C Otto looked at Albie» 1
sneaked away quiet y, s
witness They
t rpnL|
Albie they had both
gone insane ; it made the boys
very nervous.
T y here was a ambling and
chattering in the farmyard, and
as t[) got c | oser they guessed
th t chaffcutter was going.
c . a B
oW £enow wTs m £eedin g glht
cut(e r, an d his gangling son Gus
was handing him the sheaves. If
t h ey hadn’t known what kind of
a man Schaeffel was they would
have learnt it from the set-up of
his power-plant. Power was
SU ppii e d by a horse-works ; two
p a i rs G f horses being attached to
two WO oden poles and walking
hi a circle. To save the expense
c f a man to drive the horses
Schaeffel had rigged light poles
j n f ront c f each team, baited
w hh sheaves of hay just out of
the horses’ reach.
(j us wag V ery hard,
jje had to go a long way for the
h and every t j me the supply
fel { ’ hort father made angry,
hurry i ng gestures at him. Be-
cause of the no j se 0 f t he cutter
the boys’ coming was unnoticed
at first, and they studied
Schaeffers bad-tempered face
with some apprehension. Then
a couple of dogs rushed out
barking, and Schaeffel looked
up. After giving them one brief
surprised glance he adjusted
himself to the situation. With-
out stopping a moment in hi s
work he started making authori-
tative gestures to them in the
direction of the haystack.
Albie quickly saw what he
meant and looked ' greatly re-
lieved. He ran across and
grabbed a pitchfork as if cutting
chaff was his favorite sport.
Otto went over slowly and re-
luctantly. Like all normal boys
he hated cutting chaff, and he
wasn’t impelled to reverse his
true self by any absurd and mys-
terious force. Albie had started
throwing the sheaves from the
haystack to Gus, and there
wasn’t much to do except give a
push to those which fell short.
SCHAEFFEL watched the
boys with his mean little
eyes and seemed to be upset
that both were not fully em-
ployed. Suddenly be gestured
to Otto to go into the chaff-
shed, but after one glance at the
dust which was coming out of
the door Otto disregarded him.
A man could be smothered in
there trying to scrape the chaff
back from the elevator-mouth
while the cutter was going.
Schaeffel started to shout at him,
but Otto continued to fiddle with
an odd sheaf and take things
easy. He knew that now his
position was quite safe. As a
co-trespasser with the infamous
Albie Kleinert he would have
been willing to be shot at with
a gun in a wild and exhilarating
race for the boundary-fence;
but now, as the son of a man
who was equal, if not superior,
to Schaeffel in all things (except
mean acquisitiveness) he wasn’t
going to be bullied into doing


3&ALLBRITISH
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING i
%
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
marvellous nib
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
.Melbourne and Sydney
df
nivitrs
Circular Charts lor all types
of Recording Instruments
for any class of Machinery
METER CHARTS a Specially
‘SIIIUVAN%L&
N STREET. BRISBANE
where CdcalatcM
MOVE
MERCHANDISE
MOVES
SALES
i ■
Climb WHEN CUSTOMERS RIDE
ON OtiA ESCALATORS
°'e op <- /V
o,>s p::,:v e »
This Otis escalator installation at Boans Ltd.,
Perth, W.A., extends a pleasant invitation to
customers to see other floors ... to see more
merchandise ... to buy more.
Escalators promote inter-floor circulation,
' provide ground-floor accessibility to lower-
ground or upper floors.
Put motion into your sales promotion plans
with Otis escalators —your local Otis office
will be glad to survey your store and give
you the facts.
m
f /
ELEVATOR COMPANY
*
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE •
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART
ADELAIDE
NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED
ISew Installations
of Post-war Design
OTIS ESCALATORS
STATES • SOUTH AFRICA • FRANCE
way, you didn’t bring any cards,
did you? We’ve got three hours
ahead of us, running the petrol
out. Dumping’s a trap in these
kites.”
The aircraft circled above the
smoking gold, the stone green,
and warm crimson, of the lights
in The Valley.
HP HE watchers saw the naviga-
* tion lights move between the
stars. •
“That’s Jupiter,” one said.
“Jupiter’s out tonight. There’s
Betelgeuse—the hot red star.”
“And there,” said another, “is
Jim Gray.”
They all laughed, standing in
groups among the dark fruit-
trees, waiting. The medical
officer checked through his star-
cold knives.
“Keep the motors warmed
up,” he told the driver of the
ambulance.
There was no one at the bar
but Tom Death in his open
cupboard.
That night, without Jim Gray
to crowd them around, the skele-
ton had been almost a failure.
The officers talked of other
things, took their drinks to the
fire, and Lockyer, surprisingly
sober, realised that it was not
the skeleton at all, but his
friend’s laughter, that gave the
edge to life, making the even-
ings short and gay. The skele-
ton took second place.
Then the news came that an
aircraft was in trouble.
“Who is it this time? Not
Jim!”
The wind chafed in the
boughs of the fruit-trees.
“Sutherland’s with him. He
won’t be missed.”
“I never did like that big
,” Lockyer said.
The night hid the anger and
pain in his eyes. He was con-
vinced that Sutherland had got
Gray into this. Someone was
to blame.
There’s something fatal about
me, he thought, standing in the
cold blast and watching the end-
less circling of the navigation
lights.
“Flight-Lieutenant Lockyer! ”
A voice was calling through the
orchard,
“Seen Harvey about? Oh,
there you are. You’re wanted
at the control-tower.”
HE climbed the steep ladder
into the night. Below the
lighted box the flares rocked in
the wind like buoys on a har-
bor.
“Oh, Harvey, Gray wants a
word with you.”
Lockyer slipped on the head-
set, took up the microphone.
“That you, Jim?” he said.
“What’s it like up there?”
“Cold,” Gray’s voice came
back. “Lots of stars about.
How’s the party going?”
“Fine,” Lockyer said. “Better
hurry up. Tom’s had your share
so far. Getting pretty groggy.”
He heard Gray’s involuntary
laughter.
“All right, old boy. Just
wanted to know how things are
going. Gets lonely up here.
Shout Tom one for me.”
“All right,” Lockyer said.
“See you later.”
He was thoughtful as he laid
down the microphone.
“Anything up?” the control
officer asked. He was a heavy
greying man who did not fly.
“Oh, no,” Lockyer said, twist-
ing a smile. “Just wanted to
know how the party’s going.”
The control officer was still
chuckling as Lockyer climbed
down from the tower.
A FEW new arrivals had re-
turned to the mess, tired of
waiting, and were warming their
backs at the fire. Lockyer was
suddenly embarrassed.
“Pretty cold,” he said, rub-
bing his hands above the veined
coals. “Feel like a drink?”
“Not just now, thanks.”
There was a pause and Lock-
yer said “Think I will. Need
something to keep you warm!”
“Yes, it’s cold,” he said a
moment later. “If you won’t I
expect Tom will drink with
me.”
He went to the bar and
ordered two beers. He drank
half his own and carried the
other to the cupboard, conscious
of the officers watching him.
“Here you are, Tom,” he said.
“Feeling thirsty?”
Almost brutally he jerked back
the skeleton’s head. And as the
slim column of beer, wound
through the tubes, he did not
feel like laughing at all.
Outside above the rattling of
the wind at the latches he could
hear the beat of engines. The
sound slowly faded as the air-
craft moved towards the distant
edge of its circuit.
unpleasant work he was never
expected to do at home.
But on Albie the effect of
Schaeffel’s shouting was electric.
He redoubled the speed of his
hay-pitching until he was as hot,
red and sweating as the cross-
cut sawyers, then having accu-
mulated a stockpile for Gus to
draw on, he dropped his pitch-
fork and rushed into the chaff-
house. Otto decided that Albie
was just as mad as the work-
men ; so to avoid all risk of
getting that way himself he
failed to see Schaeffel inviting
him to take up Albie’s pitch-
fork and -went and sat in the
shade.
Albie came out of the chaff-
house covered with dust and
sneezing violently, but looking,
in his queer, cantankerous way,
as if he was enjoying himself
thoroughly. He rushed back to
his pitchfork with never a re-
proachful glance at his friend
who was letting him do all the
work.
There seemed to be no end to
the chaffcutting Schaeffel was
prepared to do now that he had
free labor. Otto could see by
the sun that it was well past the
dinner hour, and every time
Schaeffel looked at him he
pointed at the direction of the
shadows. Schaeffel ignored the
hints, but presently his daughter
came across from the house and
told him that dinner was ready
long ago.
AS soon as Frieda appeared,
Albie’s sheaves seemed to
take wings. They flew so far
and so fast that they passed
clean over Gus and were in
danger of landing on Schaeffel’s
head. His face got sillier than
ever, too. Frieda, a little,
disciplined doe-rabbit of a girl,
about Albie’s age, gave one
startled look at the rocketing
hay, one comprehending stare at
Albie, and then, dropping her
head into its habitual downcast
position, she returned to the
house, the picture of maidenly
modesty and virtue.
They stopped the cutter and
released the horses. Then
Schaeffel eyed the boys and
said ungraciously:
“Do you want to stay for
dinner?”
Both were eager, Otto
because he was hungry, and
Albie because that invitation
seemed to be the climax of his
morning’s ambition. Albie took
off his shirt and tried to shake
out the dust, but it remained
woefully stained and sweaty.
“Pity a bloke hasn’t got a
clean one,” he said, and Otto
knew that he was completely
unbalanced.
They were led into the usual
big dining-living room of those
days, where there was a clean,
starched, white table cloth on
the large table that served for
both family and farm-hands*
and a smell of thorough house-
keeping and good food. Mrs.
Schaeffel greeted Otto warmly,
and even smiled on the
reprobate Albie. Frieda hurried
round the table with her head
down, carrying plates. Albie
put his head down too, to eat,
and his elbows up, and ate at a
prodigious speed. For a while
there was no noise but the
sound of hungry people elevat-
ing and masticating food ; then
Schaeffel asked the boys if they
had seen his two workmen. He
smiled to himself when they told
him how hard the men were
working.
AFTER the meal Frieda
retired to the kitchen with
her mother and a great clatter-
ing of dish-washing arose. The
Schaeffels went out to jobs
which did not require Albie’s
assistance, and as no invitation
of any kind was forthcoming,
the boys felt it incumbent upon
them to return home. They
said “Hooroo” to Gus and
went; Albie in absurdly high
spirits.
Soon they met Bert Grosser
carrying home the cross-cut
saw ; his workmate was walking
in an exhausted manner about
two chains behind him. This
time Bert stopped to talk, but
the other man made a wide
detour around them.
“Don’t ever have anything to
do with that man,” Bert said as
his eyes followed him round;
“he’s mad.”
Then after looking mourn-
fully at Albie, and seeming to
sense that in him he had found
a brother, he said in a voice of
the deepest confidence;
“He’s trying to do a line with
Martha Klemm.”
'T HEY left the Schaeffel
* farm, and started walking
along a back-lane that was only
a winding track among dense
timber. Suddenly Albie hissed
a warning and pulled Otto down
behind a bush. An old woman
came driving along in a sulky.
She was talking to herself in a
maudlin old-woman way.
“It’s only old Mother
Richter,” Otto whispered.
Albie crushed Otto’s arm
painfully with his strong hands.
Then, when the sulky was
safely past he whispered back:
“If she’d seen you spying on
her while she was making magic
spells you wouldn’t’ve said ‘lt’s
only old Mother Richter.’ She
would’ve bewitched you. You
would’ve gone lame, or blind, or
so ugly that no girl would ever
look at you, or stark staring
mad.”
Otto looked at his friend, in-
credulous at the soft and silly
way he’d been behaving all day,
and said:
“She couldn’t hurt you;
you’re mad enough already.”
But Albie let the insult pass.
He was craning his neck out of
the bush, watching the sulky,
which had come into view
on a little rise before the
track plunged into the big belt
of timber round the Burranarra
Hills.
As the sulky went over the
crest it disappeared slowly, from
the bottom up; first the horse,
then the wheels, then the old
woman’s body. When only her
head was visible, they saw it
turn quickly and look in their
direction. Albie ducked and
held his breath with an audible
gasp. He crouched there until
he was quite sure the head had
disappeared before he dared to
stand up again. He was just
beginning to relax when, from
the spot where the sulky had
been, there came a horrible,
rasping, screeching sound, like
that made by a piece of rusty
wire being pulled through a
small hole punched in an
empty kerosene-tin,
Albie’s face went white. He
turned to Otto with a wild and
staring eyes.
“It’s not a bird that makes
that noise,” he said in a shaky
voice. “It’s the witches.”
The Thirst.
I ring the shovel down,
straighten from shoulder’s sag,
from toil’s intent and frown,
turn to the water-bag,
and fill, in this my spell,
the pannikin to its brink
with water from the well
and raise the cup and drink;
drink in the gibber-plain
from saltbush at my feet
to range and range again
etched in the still dry heat;
drink in the monotone
of claypan, rock and sand,
where rains reach through the
stone
to deep wells of this land.
1 drink cool deeps and, strange,
I may not slake this thirst,
this love by which I range
and know myself accurst.
N.S.W. ROLAND E. ROBINSON.


«S*>~
Aia*>
ae
E
rfbTj^===
rs
S 3
TtSt
*v/wwr*SL
nWC\v>»ul
* _»
->» i
7 \\W
A
y")
52
23
Wrii
O
< WM.\
Mm
*1
• tei
YOU CAH’TSEEJH^
BANK .H TH.S P.CTOR
YOU can’t see the time and
labour spent in ploughing,
fallowing and sowing.
You can’t see the money
laid out in fertilizers.
You can’t see how many men
are engaged behind the scene,
so to say.
And, of course, you can’t see
the Bank, but it’s there! Its
dozen and one services have
been in the picture and in
thousands of like pictures, right
from the start.
The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney Limited is
Banker to men and companies
in every industry in the land.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD
vrw.
THE
“‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
Company Accounts
Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
m
m
m
ALL KINDS OF
FISHING TACKLE!
For river, beach and, deep
sea fishermen. English and
French NYLON LINES...
hunting knives . . . smokers’
requisites. Write for new
fishing catalogue, now avail-
able.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George St., Sydney.
Phone M 0261.
BABCOCK-DETROIT
SPREADER STOKER
**«STO* V *
: .
x
x.
TOP—Side view of Babcock-Detrolt
BotoStoker with power dumping
grate.
BOTTOM—Sectional view of Bab-
cock-Detroit BotoStoker.
For Medium and
Moderate Sized
Industrial Installations
s The Babcock-Detroit Roto-
Stoker is supplied with
either hand or mechanically
operated dumping grate,
and is employed mainly for
medium and moderate
sized industrial installations.
This stoker has been
demonstrated as capable of
handling a very wide range
of fuels, including bitum-
inous, sub-bituminous coals
and lignites, brown coal
and mixtures of coke
coal.
One of its main advantages is its suitability in plants
where the type or quality of coal delivered varies fro®
time to time.
As suppliers of all types of firing equipment, whether
for pulverised fuel, oil fuel, other mechanical types or
stokers, or any other known firing method, Babcocks
have the experience necessary to advise on the right
equipment most suitable and economical to your needs-
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS - - REGENTS PARK, UJt
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States
THE SERVICE MAN
Why Not Stalin, Too?
“Ek Dum”: About the
grimmest and most cynical joke
of the season was the Russian
Note to the United States de-
manding the trial of the Emperor
Hirohito and other Japanese not
under Russian control for hav-
ing planned bacteriological war-
fare against the Soviet Union.
The Note, delivered to the
United States State Department
by Comrade Panyushkin, seems
to have arisen from the questions
asked in the International Con-
trol Committee meetings at
Tokyo about the fate of 376,000
p.-0.-w. under the hands of the
Soviet Union, Under the Allied
agreements at the end of the
Pacific War, all Japanese p.-0.-w.
were to be repatriated by the
countries holding them as early
as possible.
All countries save Russia
complied with this arrangement.
Russia sent home only those
whom it suited it to send home
and kept the remainder appa-
rently for labor on Russian
military works in Manchuria or
for indoctrination as Communists
to act later as Russian agents to
undermine whatever system of
government might be in vogue
in Japan when they reached
home.
Four years after the war
376,000 Japanese were still miss-
ing. The Russian reply to
official queries from its “allies”
about these unfortunates pro-
duced vague generalities, abuse
and a few prisoners.
And in the middle of the argu-
ment the Russians suddenly
staged the trial of 12 high
Japanese officers in Khabarovsk
in Siberia, all charged with plot-
ting bacteriological warfare
against the Soviet Union. These
apparently were allowed no
defence. No foreign observers,
Press- or otherwise, were present.
And the victims pleaded guilty
in the manner so inevitable with
those tried under the horrible
Russian method of isolation,
torture and medical condition-
ing.
The demand for Hirohito’s
trial followed tardily, though the
Russians were Dr. Evatt’s only
major supporters when he pro-
posed such a trial on general
issues of responsibility for the
war. #
The cynical United States De-
partment believes that the whole
business is a smoke-screen to
cover inability to give satisfac-
tory replies about the disappear-
ance of the 376,000 unfortunate
prisoners, combined with a
practical device for rallying the
disintegrating Communist party
of Japan to the cry “Hang Hiro-
hito” ; also to divide the United
States from other Pacific nations
such as the Philippines and Aus-
tralia.
The cynicism seems to lie in
the fact that whoever Hirohito
may have helped to plot bacterio-
logical warfare against it was
not the Soviet Union. There has
been no evidence obtainable so
far in all the lengthy trials that
bacteriological warfare was
planned by Japan against any-
body, though no doubt the
Japanese, like all other military
organisations, investigated the
possibilities without much en-
thusiasm.
Russo-Japanese Plotting
Japan, in fact, did not plot
war of any description against
Russia. The history of the rela-
tions between the two countries,
as revealed by the papers cap-
tured in the German Foreign
Office papers at the end of the
European War, suggest that if
there are to be any trials in-
volving Japanese plotting of war
against British Commonwealth
countries and the United States
Comrades Stalin and Molotov
might be included.
When the plans were being
laid for the Japanese attack on
the countries of the Pacific in
1940 it was envisioned that
Russia would be an active party
to them.
It is clear from documents of
which the originals were seized
and reprinted by the United
States State Department that
Molotov in September-
November, 1940, actually came
to an agreement on a draft
treaty under Article II of the
proposed treaty under which
Germany, Italy, Japan and the
Soviet Union undertook to “re-
spect each other’s natural spheres
of influence” in accordance with
a secret protocol which defined
those spheres as follows:
1. —Germany declares that, apart
from the territorial revisions in
Europe to be carried out at the con-
clusion of the peace, her territorial
aspirations centre in the territories of
Central Africa.
2. —ltaly declares that, apart from
the territorial revisions in Europe to
be carried out at the conclusion of
the peace, her territorial aspirations
centre in the territories of Northern
and North-eastern Africa.
3. —Japan declares that her terri-
torial aspirations centre in the area
of Eastern Asia to the south of the
island empire of Japan.
4. —The Soviet Union declares that
its territorial aspirations centre south
of the national territory of the Soviet
Union in the direction of the Indian
Ocean.
The German Ambassador, Von
Schulenburg, reported on Nov.
26, 1940, that Molotov had asked
him to call on him and had in-
formed him that the Russian
Government was prepared to
accept the draft of the proposed
Four-Power pact subject to Fin-
land becoming an exclusive
Russian sphere of influence, to
Bulgaria being included in the
Russian security area along with
the Dardanelles (on which there
was to be a Russian base), to the
Persian Gulf oil area being in-
cluded in the Russian sphere and
to the Japanese renouncing their
rights to concessions for oil and
coal in North Sakhalin.
Molotov called for the addi-
tion of secret protocols to cover
these proposed additional
arrangements.
The Matsuoka Visit
The whole discussions, which
came to nothing because the
Russians were adamantly
greedy, throws an interesting
light on the continual insistence
of the Russians that they have
never had territorial aspirations
—all they wanted apparently was
the control of Europe east of the
Bulgarian border together with
Persia, Afghanistan, India, Tibet,
Burma and parts of China im-
mediately to the south of Soviet
Asia, plus a footing on the China
coast. In return they were pre
pared to allow Japan to have
the Philippines and Australia
Malaya and Indonesia, and to
give economic and other aid i n
their conquest of these countries
and in the settlement of a peace
which would make them per-
manent Japanese possessions.
In March, 1941, came the now-
famous Matsuoka visit to Mos-
cow and Berlin, after which the
German Ambassador in Moscow
reported on April 13, 1941, a call
by Matsuoka:
He stated to me that a Japanese-
Soviet Neutrality Pact had been
arranged which called for friendship,
respect for each other’s territory and
neutrality in case of war.
War-time Friendships
When Matsuoka left Moscow,
Stalin and Molotov appeared on
the platform to see him off—
a most unusual performance.
And when Japan struck treacher-
ously at the Allies, who were
then supplying Russia, fighting
for its life, with vital support,
sea transport and arms, Moscow
had no protest to make. It did
not like the other allies immedi-
ately to declare war on Japan.
It continued and renewed its
treaties which enabled Russian


The Australian
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Knitting, Crochet and
Needlecraft
Health Talk, Mothercraft
Serial, Short Stories and
Special Articles
On sale everywhere
Price 3d.
BRANDT’S famous
Pumpless PETROL IRON
j
Q-1
At an amazingly low Price
This Fntarnishahle Chrome IRON irons smoothly forward and
backward. You can regulate the heat, no pumping is required
and it is absolutely SAFE. Supplied complete with full instruc-
tions, and SPARE PARTS are always available.
BRANDT’S PRICE
55'-
Mail orders add freight N.S.W. 2/-, Queensland, Victoria and Tas-
mania 3/6, West Australia, South Australia and N. Territory 5/-.
BRANDTS
PTY. LTD,
’Phone: M 4651.
FROM AMERICA
Kerosene Heating and Lighting
Specialists,
371 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
If any
illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
HAIR DRESSING
(WITH
LANOLIN}
I
Hats off to Lustre Creme! This favourite
Hair Dressing of smart Americans can now
be yours! Lustre Creme is an instant aid
to handsome hair, for it has double action
spreading and penetrating double-quick!
And Lustre Creme has a tonic effect ... it
tones up the scalp. Lustre Creme has a
high quality Lanolin base the oil
that most resembles the skin’s
natural oil. See how Lustre-
Creme banishes ugly dandruff
scales, relieves dry, itching
scalp, and does away with
that "plastered-down”
look. A little Lustre Creme
a few seconds’ combing
and you've well-
groomed hair all day !
I ENDS
• DULL, DRY, UNRULY HAIR
• DRY, ITCHY SCALP
• LOOSE, UGLY DANDRUFF
• UNKEMPT APPEARANCE
GIVES
• CLEAN, HEALTHY SCALP AND
LUSTROUS HAIR
• SMOOTH, "JUST GROOMED”
LOOK ALL DAY LONG
• NOT A HAIR OUT OF PLACE
DEFEATS THAT
"OLD DEVIL"
-g 'DANDRUFF
(jftewe
HAIR DRESSING
;'s handier in a tube—try it to-day!
m
o v
*?r.
KS
111
LH2/330
Sold by
all Chemists
and Stores Tt/ m
shiooing to pass through Japan-
ese waters It continued to
supply Japan with food under
the fisheries agreements which it
renewed during the war. It
made no step to give military or
economic help to China, its pro-
paganda regarding Asian affairs
carried on through its Com-
“What was it you asked me to look at ?”
mpnist agents everywhere being
directed to the task of establish-
ing in the mind of the world a
concept of the effeteness and
cruelty of British rule in Asia,
of the cowardice of British
officers and of the general failure
of the British system.
It did everything in fact,
through its agencies, to foster
rebellion against European Gov-
ernments in Asia and to under-
mine the moral strength and
unity of purpose of those fight-
ing against Japan. It demanded
the withdrawal of, strength
ranged against Japan in order
that a second front might be
opened in Europe—dozens of
resolutions by the Australian
Communist party and its dupes
to that effect are on the record.
When Russia’s acts are read in
the light of the knowledge that
Moscow did not deny the con-
temporary statement that the
Russian Embassy publicly an,d
officially congratulated the
Japanese Navy on its destruction
of Prince of Wales and Repulse
and that apparently friendly, if
increasingly tense, relationships
were maintained between Russia
and Japan until a week before
the end of the Pacific War, when
Russia, and not Japan, made the
break, there seems to be pretty
good reason to justify the belief
that if Hirohito stands in the
dock Stalin and Molotov should
be on either side of him.
H-Bombs and Gloomy
Prophets.
Ek Dum”: Announced that
President Truman has given the
signal to go ahead with the
making of the “H-Bomb”—hy-
drogen atomic bomb which
may be completed by 1952. It
is described as “the most ter-
rible weapon devised by man.”
Man, who did not devise himself,
is naturally excluded. As a
weapon he has survived in prior-
ity over all the others.
Experts”—an expert being a
man who is nearly always wrong
—nx the present limit of the
explosive power of the H-bomb
at 10 times that of the present
atomic bomb, which is “con-
S** *» the ear Eer reports that
the H-bomb will be 1000 times
as powerful.” However, “scien-
tists agree [according to the cable
services] that only one H-bomb
would be required to remove a
large city like New York or
London from the world.”
Contemporaneously with this
set of dicta, and on the same
page in Sydney’s morning press,
comes the information re-
layed by Mr. William Laurence,
who writes for the N Y Times
and who was chosen by the U.S.
authorities to explain the atom
bomb to the public in 1945, that
the hydrogen bomb is not a hy-
drogen bomb at all and that it is
really a tritium bomb, one kilo
(2.21 b.) of tritium being cap-
able of releasing the power of
140,000 tons of t.n.t.
The bomb is likely to be tested
in the Pacific where there is
plenty of room and where there
are neither Londons nor New
Yorks to be removed.
For those who are despondent
history has its consolations.
Hiroshima, of course, is one,
since there, despite the effects
over a 1500-yard radius on tinder
shacks and frail Japanese con-
struction in a high wind, the
bomb failed to remove a not-
very-good concrete building 250
yards from the point above
which it exploded, a building
which is in regular use today. It
failed to remove a couple of
small, only fairly-substantial
bridges a few yards on each side
of it. And no real substantial
building within the ambit of its
influence came down, though
some were gutted. Had the
Japanese been aware of the ex-
istence of an atom-bomb in their
vicinity, it is probable that the
results might have been con-
siderably different if they had
had the means of protection at
the disposal of New York or
London, the wiping-out of which
is a tall order.
Other consolations are to be
found in the fact that time has
proved scientists to be gullible
fellows when subjected to the
impact of their own fears or en-
thusiasms.
Before World War II they
were almost unanimous in their
belief that a few squadrons of
bombers would wipe out any
large city ; but, strangely enough,
with all their omniscience none
of them was able to tell the
world what radar would do (or
even that it existed), and they
were all wrong about the ability
of fighter aircraft to counter the
attacks of big bombers.
They were also wrong about
the effects of massed manpower
in war as opposed to mechani-
sation. And they are likely to be
wrong again. From the time the
chariot was invented devices have
been coming forward which have
been supposed impossible of de-
feat by a defender, but they in-
variably find their own level,
sometimes after initial successes,
sometimes not; and they always
fail ultimately on the factors of
time and power—on an inability
to kill enough of the enemy and
destroy enough of his resources
to beat him before he finds a way
to adopt a counter to the new
surprises and provide some sup-
plementary ones of his own.
Any scientist or logician of the
type now prophesying, with an
elementary knowledge only of
war, who in 1939 had had laid
bare to him the relative resources
of the Germans and the British
and French would have rushed
to his s.p. man to bet 100 to 1 on
Hitler’s success within a year.
But he would certainly have
omitted to consider the greatest
elements in victory—quality and
inventiveness of the British races
under stress, the toughness of
their fibre and resilience in ad-
versity and their ultimate ability
to produce trained manpower
and materials and to counter new
measures.
In the same way he would also
have almost certainly disregarded
the value of crude actual man-
power as exhibited by the Rus-
sians, whose victories were due
mainly to the fact that the Ger-
mans, their production con-
stantly limited by British and
U.S. attrition of their factories
and transport, were unable to
produce sufficient munitions to
kill an adequate number of Rus-
sians, though they probably did
kill more than were slaughtered
in the whole of the Napoleonic
wars and in World War I put
together on all fronts.
It seems odds-on that most of
the scientists who are now ex-
plaining to the world that the
H-bomb means the end of every-
thing will live to mutter through
their grey whiskers that they
were wrong and that it is the Z-
bomb which is to be feared.


"Mm
m
mm
mi
No. 1 DESIGN: SIZE 3'4|" HIGH. 57i" WIDE
Place Your Order Now
Orders are now being accepted for WUNDER-
LICH Terra-Cotta Fireplace Surrounds to No. 1
Design (as illustrated) also Surrounds for slow
combustion and Wonderheat Stoves. The glaze
finish is a mottled Cream-Buff.
Ask at local Hardware Stores, call MX 2411 or
write to Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney, for details.
pm
PS 3
■REPLACE SURROUNDS
GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
EXECUTOR :: TRUSTEE
ATTORNEY
•VtfTT
A
&
P
*
TH t
COMMONSENSE
BEFORE SENTIMENT
The old custom of choosing a friend as executor or trustee
is fast disappearing. Today, the administration of an esta
is no longer a spare-time job for an inexperienced ma
It demands the full-time attention of a permanent, soundly-
financed institution. The appointment of Burns Philp Tru
Company Limited relieves you of all anxiety regarding
management of your estate.
A complimentary copy of a 20-page booklet, Hands tha
Never Leave the Wheel, will be forwarded on applied'
If you care to call, a senior officer will be readily availa
to discuss important matters with you.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns P. T. W. Black Joseph Mitchell Eric Priestley 1*
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, L* 1
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament
Head Office: 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
RiTßoni Box 543 ! _CT^^
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
PURGING THE SATELLITES.
“U.S. News and World
Report,” which specialises in
keeping such records, has
checked the “scorecard” of
purges of leaders — leaders ! —
of one degree and another
in Soviet-dominated countries
last year, and added them up to
the extraordinary total of 995
accused of spying, and 115 of
them executed.
Here is the “score” for each
of the Soviet-blessed lands:
Czechoslovakia; 319 con-
victed, 44 executed,
Bulgaria; 179 convicted, 22
executed.
Hungary; 88 convicted, 10
executed.
Rumania; 55 convicted, 16
executed.
Poland; 354 put on trial, 23
executed.
The most outstanding:
Josef Cardinal Mindszenty,
Primate of Hungary, convicted
on February 8, 1949, of treason
and attempting to overthrow the
Government. Sentenced to life
imprisonment,
Roci Xoxe, No, 2 Communist
leader in Albania and former
Vice-Premier. Convicted in
May, 1949, of collaboration with
Marshal Tito of Yugoslavia.
Hanged on June 11, 1949.
Laszlo Rajk, deputy chief of
Hungarian Communist party and
former Foreign Minister. Con-
victed on September 24, 1949, of
plotting to “lead and organise
an anti-Soviet movement” to
help Tito. Hanged on October
15, 1949.
Traicho Rostov, Deputy
Premier of Bulgaria, chief eco-
nomic planner, member of Bul-
garian Politburo, Convicted on
December 14, 1949, of conspir-
ing to “tear Bulgaria away from
the Soviet Union and annex it to
Yugoslavia.” Hanged on Dec.
16, 1949.
While seeing that “Eventu-
ally the purges are supposed to
strengthen Russia, make Mos-
cow’s hold on the satellites
absolute, really make them part
of the Soviet Empire,” “U.S.
News and World Report” shares
the view of other close observers
of the grim scene that all the
“trials” and their inevitable
fatal or other liquidations are
actually a sign of Soviet weak-
ness and insecurity,
Bulgaria, it further reports, has
been “getting a complete over-
haul by Moscow” to increase
grain production and speed-up
collectivisation. Moscow, it
adds, has ordered Czecho-
slovakia to “go after Catholic
priests, farmers, businessmen and
unreliable Communists,” and
Poland is “next in line” for a
really wholesale purge within the
trial of
TITO
AGENTS
trial of
STAUIM
agents
"France Amèrique."
DANSE MACABRE.
party. One effect, it notes, “is to
liquidate some of the ablest men
and give jobs to party hacks.”
Earlier in this callous period of
passing history not only avowed
and unavowed Communists, and
in fact the entire fellow-traveller
fringe, but also the considerable
race of sentimental or merely
good-natured adorers of Russia
in various Western lands
joined in putting a gloss of sorts
on these so-called “trials” in the
satellite countries.
As the “trials” continue, there
are now ample signs of consider-
able disturbance in the whole
of that grouping. The most
obvious sign, perhaps, is the way
the British Left would appear to
have swung over to Tito. It
and other signs suggest that in
the “cold war” the most service-
able weapon in the West’s
armory is probably still simply
Russian clumsiness —as it might
be in other ways in a “hot war.”
That element has certainly
played its part all through the
Rremlin’s unexampled post-war
performance of losing friends
and making enemies; history
will probably have little hesita-
tion about endorsing and elabo-
rating on the finding recently
paragraphed b y Christopher
Hollis in a “World Review”
article:
“The evidence is overwhelm-
ing that at the end of the war
both Mr. Roosevelt and Mr.
Eden [and how many more be-
sides!] thought that a policy of
generosity would win the
Russians. They made to them
concessions for which many
people today hold them gravely
to blame. But, however that
may be, there is no dispute about
the fact that no one in Britain
and America thought of war
With Russia as a possibility in
1945, and if it has become a
possibility it is entirely the fault
of Russian policy.”
Possibly no better single ex-
ample of that general friendli-
ness could be instanced than
London “Times.” In the early
post-war period it read like a
mouthpiece of fellow-travellers
at large, and, without being Left,
it certainly can’t be accused of
having since shown anything but
forbearance and patience to-
wards Russia and satellites alike.
Now it would seem to have
had about enough ; and the main
abrasive in wearing out its
patience has been the Com-
munist brand of “justice” in the
“trials.”
The Rostov trial was evidently
the last straw. Noting a degree
of worseness in it that might not
be so apparent to everybody who
has taken an interest in these
“trials,” the “Times” has in-
sisted : “The trial of Rostov, the
former Bulgarian Deputy Prime
Minister, and other defendants
in Sofia was the most disgrace-
ful that has yet been held in
the countries of Eastern
Europe.” Nothing that had
happened in Eastern Europe
since the war had “shown such
a contempt for human intelli-
gence,” In the other such
“trials” the indictments were
drawn up with “some appear-
ance of logic, however night-
marish ; the supposed plots were
sketched with some detail and
precision; they were meant to
be believed.”
What the “Times” found
“appalling” in the Rostov “trial”
was that the indictment “made
no pretence of being credible” ;
iLwas “simply an act of terror”
which the prosecution had “not
even troubled to disguise.” The
defence, it recorded, vied with
the prosecution in eagerness to
secure a conviction, and when,
at the end of the trial, Rostov
repeated his denial of guilt, the
spectators drowned his words
with boos and hisses. In this
way the man who only a few
months before had been a Com-
munist hero and who had shown
to the end a courage and com-
posure worthy of respect “was
hunted gallowswards with jeers.”
One thing the “Times” noted
as specially revealing—it might
be calculated to shake the con-
fidence of any but fanatical
Communists, if there is any
other sort —was the striking
fashion in which that “trial”
showed how mistakes or differ-
ences of opinion in a Communist
State may later be blown up into
a capital charge of treason or
sabotage;
“Rostov had almost certainly
been ‘guilty’—if that is the word
■—of hard bargaining in eco-
nomic negotiations with Russia
and the other satellite States.
He had also supported —or at
least he had not opposed—the
plan for a federal union of Bul-
garia and Yugoslavia before it
had been denounced by Russia.
(So had Dimitrov, the Bulgarian
Premier, who received extra-
ordinary honors when he died
in Moscow.) In the trial his
hard bargaining, which in any
other country might have been
regarded as a patriotic duty, was
described as economic sabotage
and hostility to the Soviet
Union, while his support of Bal-
kan federation was twisted into
a traitorous plot with Marshal
Tito.
“Rostov admitted that he had
been personally ambitious and
that he had criticised Dimitrov.
But what is left of even ‘Com-
munist democracy’ if a Deputy
Premier and one of the leaders
of the party cannot speak freely
in the privacy of the Politburo?
The whole trial was a striking
warning to Communist officials
that their words may be held
against them no matter where
they are spoken, and that it may
be as fatal to agree with a leader
who is wrong as to disagree with
a leader who is right. The sud-
den, baffling changes in the
‘party line,’ which to Western
countries are matter for laughter
and derision, may mean life and
death for the Communist who
is caught on the wrong foot.
Only Moscow is always right
and only complete subservience
can bring security.”
Giving (as many might think)
its old friends the very consider-
able benefit of a doubt, the
“Times” wound up what surely
ought to be its own final break
with sentimentalism by suggest-
ing that “the Russians do not
regard terror as an end in it-
self”; hence, “behind these
trials, as behind so much that is
happening in Eastern Europe
may be seen the Russian crav’
ing for security.”
That might more correctly be
put as the Russian imperialist
craving for hegemony; for com-
plete control of its puppets (to
begin with) —a thought which
seems present in the “Times’s”
own final summing-up on the
Rremlin rulers;
“Prisoners of their own
clumsy machine and victims of
their own rigid dogma, they see
a Tito in every man of ability
and treachery in the least sign
of independence. Frightened by
shadows, they are driven to cut
down the very trees which they
themselves have planted.”
The upshot of it all, in the
view of London Labor “Daily
Herald (to take another ex-
ample from the formerly almost
idolatrous sector of the British
Press) is that It is a nightmare
world that has been created be-
hind the Iron Curtain: a world
m which the most trusted Com-
munist leader can turn over-
night into a Fascist agent arid
m which no man dare trust his
oldest and closest comrade,
What, the British Labor paper
wonders, do the bewildered
workers and peasants make of it
when they are now suddenly
told that this or that leader,
whom they had been taught to
regard as one of their greatest
men, had been “a traitor to the
movement and the country he
professed to serve”:
“They must begin to suspect
that every Communist party is
as riddled with corruption and


Commonwealth °f Australia
Attorney-General’s
Legal Service Bureaux
The Legal Service Bureaux established as part of the
Commonwealth Attorney-General’s Department in 1942
perform the service of advising without charge for the
benefit of ex-servicemen and ex-servicewomen and also
their dependants.
The Bureaux work in very close conjunction with
ex-servicemen’s associations. Advisings are given
especially in connection with claims under the
Re-establishment and Employment Act.
Any ex-serviceman, ex-servicewoman or dependant
concerned is entitled to place his problem before the
Bureaux and receive advice free of charge. The
Bureaux advise either personally or by letter.
In addition the services of Bureaux officers are i
able in relation to old age, invalid and widows’ perns ions
and Commonwealth unemployment and siclr-sss
benefits.
Addresses throughout the Commonwealth are: —.
4th Floor ( Mercantile Mutual
Building
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone BW 1852
C.M.L. Building
72 HUNTER STREET
NEWCASTLE
Telephone B 1597
Saxon Honse
450 LITTLE COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE
Telephone MU 9194
Epworth Building
55 PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE
Telephone Central 6417
A.N.A. Honse
ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH
Telephones t B 6511, B 4797
Crown Solicitor’s Office
COMMONWEALTH OFFICES,
WEST BLOCK, CANBERRA
Telephone 631
T. and G. Buildirg
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Telephone B 9134
Deputy Crown Solicitor s Cffi
A.W.C. Building
CLEVELAND ST„ TO iVNSVILLE
Telephone 19"
Commerclal Banking Company of
Sydney Bnilding
EAST STREET. ROCKHAMPTON
Telephone 3169
Police Bnilding
FRANKLIN WHARF, HOBART
Telephone Central 6658
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s Office
BENNETT STREET, DARWIN
Telephone 166
ADMIRALS IN THE MAKING!
Cadet-Midshipmen at the Royal Australian Naval College at Flinders
Naval Depot Victoria, study, play and live with a primary objective—
to become officers in the Royal Australian Navy. Trained to command
in peace and war, they can be proud of the growing responsibility of
thislj highly technical service. The lads who enter the R.A.N. as
Cadet-Midshipmen are building for themselves, top, interesting
careers of travel and excitement, with satisfactory rates of pay, and
excellent opportunities for promotion*
All particulars can be obtained from
the Naval Recruiting Office In your
capital city. All applications should
be made to the SECRETARY, DE-
PARTMENT OF THE NAVY, NAVY
OFFICE, MELBOURNE, S.C.I.
APPLICATIONS ?OR THE 13-YEARS-
OLD CLASS OF ENTRY SHOULD
REACH THE SECRETARY NOT LATER
THAN 15th JUNE, 1950, AND FOR
CADET-MIDSHIPMEN (Special Entry)
AND MIDSHIPMEN (S) NOT LATER
THAN 15th APRIL, 1950.
Applications are invited for:
CADET-MIDSHIPMAN: Intelligent, healthy
boys who become 13 years of age during 1950, and who
are the sons of British subjects by birth or by natui-al-
sation, and are of pure European descent, are eligible
for entry to the R.A.N. as Cadet-Midshipmen. After
four years specialised training and general education
at the Royal Australian Naval College, they are sent
overseas on active service.
CADET-MIDSHIPMAN (Special Entry);
This is a special opportunity for boys of I6i to ISyears
of age to become Officers in the Executive, Engineer-
ing and Electrical branches of the R.A.N. Sound health
is essential and they must have passed Matriculation
standard examinations in Mathematics, Physics and
English, and have obtained satisfactory passes in two
other subjects, not necessarily of Matriculation
standard.
MIDSHIPMAN (S) The Supply and Secretariat
Branch is vital to the Navy’s operations, and it oners
an opportunity of service to boys of I6i to 18 year
of age, [whose educational qualifications are th
they must have passed the Leaving Certificate o
Senior Public Examination. Other than this, c
ditions of entry are the same for both branches.
Applicants for CADET - MIDSHIPMEN (SP®'* 9 '
Entry) and MIDSHIPMEN (S) must be sons of Britisn
subjects by birth or naturalisation and of pure European
descent.
ROYAL AUSTRALIA!) NAVY
aAWifraMfc.
treachery as the great Russian
Bolshevik party has— according
to the official records— always
been. .
“For, according to tnose
records, at least half the out-
standing men of the party have,
in fact, been traitors and con-
spirators.
“Cabinet Ministers like Rykov
and Trotsky, Ambassadors like
Rakov sky and Karakham,
generals like Tukhachevsky,
trade-union leaders like Tomsky,
party chiefs like Zinoviev and
Bukharin have all been ‘un-
masked’ as traitors. Even heads
of the Secret Police, like Yagoda
and Yezhov.
“Now the masses are told that
the other Communist parties are
just as bad, just as infected by
‘devilish duplicity.’ They must
surely ask themselves what sort
of creed, what sort of society,
this is which breeds so many
scoundrels in high places. Even
devout Communists must soon
begin to think, to wonder and
to doubt.”
On the same issue of doubt,
London “Daily Telegraph” has
commented: “As the rulers of
the Kremlin change in personnel
and make the wildest changes in
tactics, it is certainly difficult for
even the most loyal disciple to
be sure in advance that his
views will not soon be reckoned
heresies. So far Tito has sur-
vived—a successful arch-heretic
—which makes it all the more
necessary for the Kremlin to
destroy those minor heretics
whom it can. But it is a fair
prophecy that the regime will
require its Communist victims
and its ‘traitors’ trials’ until
mankind finds a way of ending
the reign of terror.”
The new-version crusade to
that end might be that already
being waged—the “cold-war”
crusade—if the West has the
tenacity to see it through. On
it the American head of the
Economic Co-operation Ad-
ministration, Mr. Hoffman, has
stated (with these satellite purges
and restiveness in mind) that
some of the satellites would
break away, given any kind of
opportunity,” and that the “cold
war” is half won.
“It will be the task of Wes-
tern statesmanship to make sure
U is wholly won,” comments the
Yorkshire Post.” “The omens
for a successful issue are good.”
Socialist Extravaganza.
What effect the exposure of
the Attlee Socialists’ “Rake’s
Progress” in numerous British
tress articles may have in the
British elections may perhaps de-
pend on whether British virility
is on the long ebb or is on the
now again.
One point that has been
widely hammered home is that
the policy of the Socialists “ap-
pears to have been based on the
assumption that there is no im-
poverishmem at all” in Britain,
they have spent £16,000 mil-
ion m less than five years—
more, as Mr. Churchill has
pointed out, than was spent in
r ye j ar , s . of comparative wealth.”
a U o ln ? in that binge, the
wv 6 ?? cialists (as keelhauled
Y the Marquess of Salisbury in
London “Sunday Times”), in-
Y? ad ,°| rebuilding capital,
dipped further into what re-
mained by confiscatory taxation,
ana they supplemented what
?y got from this source by
using, to finance their steadily
mounting day-to-day expendi-
SwVT’? 1 ? 8 of £lso ° million
which had been lent to them by
the United States and Canada,
J f ° r thls Purpose but to en-
hs fee U-l° Untry t 0 get back 0n
“Now Nemesis has come. The
loans from the United States and
Canada are coming to an end.
laxation cannot be raised any
lurther without defeating its own
object. For the more taxes are
Put on above a certain height
the more the streams that feed
me Exchequer will dry up ; and
even the State cannot take
money that is not there. And,
worst of all, the spirit of confi-
dence m the future of this coun-
try, at home and abroad, on
which prosperity must largely de-
pend, has received a shattering
blow.
“Abroad the [Attlee] Govern-
ment is regarded as thoroughly
incompetent. The foreign trader
and investor is becoming daily
more chary of putting his money
here. And at home the same
lack of confidence is only too
clearly shown by the calamitous
fall in the volume of our sav-
ings.
“In 1945-46, when the [Attlee]
Government first came into
power, the volume of National
Savings—that is, the savings of
the small man—amounted to
£473 million, a pretty big figure.
But by last year (1948-49) this
yearly inflow had dwindled to
£29 million ; and during the first
six months of 1949 the balance
swung right over and £4O mil-
lion more was drawn out than
came in.
“Many people—and in par-
ticular the middle-class —are so
heavily taxed that they cannot
in any case afford to save. And
those who could still do so are
beginning to lose confidence that
their savings will be safe or will
maintain their present value.'
“To such a pass have four
years of the [Attlee] Govern-
ment’s administration of our
affairs reduced this country.”
Jewish Exodus.
There have been so many con-
tradictory reports on the fate of
the Jews of Europe, especially
those of Poland, that any other
report must now be taken with
certain reserve.
However, London “Times”
has given its two-column special-
article space on its leader page
to a detailed account by a special
correspondent, under the head-
ings “Jewish Exodus from
Poland. End of a Thousand
Years of Tribulation,” support-
ing the statement that, of the
3,300,000 Jews living in Poland
before the war, more than
3.000. were deliberately
murdered by the Germans, and
adding that the surviving
thousands are now rapidly
diminishing, partly through
emigration to Israel, and partly
through assimilation, abandon-
ment of Judaism, intermarriage
and absorption into the one-class
society of the Marxian State,
thereby bringing to a close nearly
a thousand years of Jewish his-
tory on Polish soil.
The writer put the total now
in Poland at no more than
75.000. But even this small
number, he said, was diminish-
ing rapidly. “A fresh mass de-
parture of Jews is in process
now, and thousands more are
preparing to leave,” this having
been made possible by a deci-
sion of the Polish Government
to allow every Jew to leave the
country on condition that he or
she renounced Polish citizenship
and produced a legal document
guaranteeing entrance, into
Israel the renunciation of
Polish citizenship obviously in-
tended to make the return to
Poland impossible.
Dragnet Digest.
Menzies Foreign Policy. —As put in
a nutshell by “New York Times”:
“In foreign matters Mr. Menzies’s
Government will probably put less
emphasis on United Nations activities
—which was the chief interest of the
Labor Foreign Minister, Dr. Herbert
V. Evatt —and more on closer co-
operation with other nations of the
British Commonwealth and with the
United States.” Anyone object?
* * * *
Odoriferous U.N.O. —Frank enough
comment on Jerusalem and all that
by Sir Desmond Morton, lately back
in London after serving on the
U.N.O. Economic Survey Mission in
the Middle East: “A strong and un-
popular odor surrounds the United
Nations in the Middle East, but the
Palestine Conciliation Committee of
U.N. stinks.”
* * # ♦
Lysenko’s Nonsense. —Distinguished
practising biologist Dr. Julian Huxley,
in his recent book Soviet Genetics
and World Science, leaves no doubt
about his views on the Russian
Lysenko’s theories. They are, he
bluntly declares, not true or false;
they are simply nonsense. On the
same, John Langdon-Davies com-
ments in London “Daily Mail”:
“Yet this man [Lysenko] has been
given a dictatorship over the whole
held of animal and plant breeding in
Russia, and only his theories may be
taught in Soviet schools.”
♦ ♦ * #
Casualties on the Inky Way. —
“New York Times,” commenting on
the final setting of that city’s “Sun,”
reports that over the past half cen-
tury the number of daily newspapers
of general circulation in New York
City has shrunk as shown by this
table:. —
Year, Papers. Population.
1900 .. 16 .. 3,347,202
1910 .. 14 .. 4,766,883
1920 .. 13 .. 5,620,048
1930 .. 12 .. 6,930,446
1940 .. 9 .. 7,454,995
1950 .. 8 .. 8,100,000
♦ * * *
French Have Had the Corns. —In a
London “Time and Tide” article on
present France, Maurice Moyal re-
ports that French workers are getting
weary of being used as mere pawns
on the Soviet chessboard, and are
observing their strike orders less and
less. “The last big strike was a fiasco
—even the most rabid Reds in the
ranks of lower French officialdom
stayed on the job, and nobody felt
that a general strike was really on
hand. To the intellectuals the sudden
veerings of the Soviet political line
and the involved acrobatics needed to
stick to it are more and more dis-
tasteful. They very much resent such
slogans as ‘France will never fight
Soviet Russia,’ ‘The French will side
with the invading Red Army’ and the
like. The French individualist temper
cannot deal amicably for ever with
a ruthless political party which lays
claim to the minds and souls as well
as to the political loyalties of its
members for use as tools of naked
Soviet imperialism.”
* * * *
Welcome Yank Invasion. —“Bri-
tain’s most profitable trade with
America,” reports a London “Daily
Mail” staff writer, “is the goods and
services we sell to American tourists.
We do not have to spend time or
money going out to get this business.
They come to us and implore us to
take it. In 1949 nearly 100,000 of
them spent more than $70,000,000 in
our ships, trains, buses, taxis, hotels
and restaurants —more than twice the
sterling-area gold and dollar deficit
for the last quarter of the year.”
And (loud cheers) “already 175,000
Americans are preparing to come to
Britain this summer.”
* ♦ ♦ «
Australian Book Buyers. —A “York-
shire Post” interview with author and
illustrator Robert Gibbings has an
oddly surprising bit of information
in it. Gibbings was for some 10
years a director of the Golden
Cockerel Press, and the interviewer
asked, regarding the finely-printed
products of, it and other famed
English private presses, “Who, after
ourselves, are the best customers for
such books? Americans?” “No,”
Gibbings told him. “Australians.”
* * * *
Britain Gives, Too. —While Britain
has received from the U.S. by loan
and Marshall aid the astronomical
sum of £1,376,000,000, it has not, as
London “Daily Express” points out,
been all take: “Britain has given
other countries, in the form of gifts
and loans and draw,™
the Mamhall of ”*6
j: n 2 balance 6 ’ 61 fhif a °. f the <st ® r ‘
j® a -ir to f ay > sbe
£66 1 milUcm of manu-
*a . J: s t ° P? y oft debts she incurred
theSeSSSl°. that
source? since the war' tLbeaf £15*87
million—a sum in excess of all she
has received from the United States
by more than £2OO million,’*


* v.ss • +
If your car ran on eight tyres instead of four
and you drove 24 hours a day for 4 years you
wouldn’t pile up as much tyre mileage as. Good-
year drivers have in testing Super-Cushion Tyres.
In over 8,000,000 miles of test driving they have
proved this bigger, softer tyre gives more mileage
than conventional tyres, and far more comfort.
Super-Cushions will fit your present wheels, so,
see your Goodyear Dealer.
EVERYTHING A TYRE CAN DO
DOES BETTER!
Here's how Super-Cushions out-
perform conventional tyres:
Softer, Smoother, Safer Ride . . .
Quicker Stops . . . Greater Traction
Easier Steering ... Less Driving Fatigue
Better Looking . . . Fewer Rattles and
Car Repairs ... More Car Economy
all this and GREATER
MILEAGE. TOO!
gd
MORE PEOPLE,
THE WORLD OVER,
RIDE ON GOODYEAR
THAN ON ANY OTHER MAKE.
Hill
BL3-IG
NOW! PROOF that brushing teeth right
after eating is the safe, effective way to
HELP STOP
TOOTH DECAY
with 'New! Improved I
Colgate Dental Cream
No Other Dentifrice Offers
Proof of These Results
Now dental science offers
proof that always using
Colgate Dental Cream right
after eating helps stop tooth
decay before it starts!
Continuous research hun-
dreds of case histories —makes
this the most important news
in dental history!
Tests were made in America
with 2 groups of college men
and women for over a year.
One group always brushed
their teeth with Colgate
Dental Cream right after eat-
ing. The other group fol-
lowed their usual dental care.
The average of the group
using Colgate’s as directed
was a startling reduction in
number of cavities —far less
tooth decay! The other
group developed new
cavities at a much
higher rate.
Family Economy 37-
Giant 2/-
Large 1/3
m
New! Improved!
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
Now Better Than Ev er '
New delicious double
New delicious aouo*-=
flavour! New sparkling tiflc
white colour! NeW
polishing action! , N ®^__.For
ponsning aaiuu. _joi
less Penetrating foam
effective daily .dental
No claim is made that th
Colgate’s can _stoP all
Colgate’s can stop au dy
decay, or help cavflies l t h
started. But brushing the
• ±. mer is
right after eating j
proved way to help stop DeD tal
decay with Colgate v
Cream.
j
AMERICA’S
LARGEST SELLING DENTAL CREAM
Always Use Colgate s* to
Clean Your Breath While
You Clean Your Teeth-and
HELP STOP TOOTH DECAY!
♦Right after eatitf
Dl2/J69
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Dnnk
for wise men
“High in the list of ways to pre-
serve marriage is the necessity ot
teaching people how to make love.
Rev. J. Crowle Smith.
‘ u r, possible to find a swim-suit
to flatter any type of figure.”
—“New Idea.
But some are more .susceptible
to flattery than others.
•J*
“A good waiter has to be a com-
bim uon of chef and salesman.”
-—Melbourne “Sun. ’
He s still eager, though, for
tips oh the job.
•3* "I" *3*.
“ ‘The scheme is no different m
principal,’ said Aid. Bales, ‘to the
scheme that Aid. Willis has both
agreed and disagreed.’ ”
—Suburban paper.
But perhaps the interest is not
the same.
►l* 4*
“It is a good idea to plan your
wardrobe around the principal gar-
ments.” — Woman’s magazine.
The proper foundation is
essential.
“American tailors are experiment-
ing with a built-up chest for men who
do not think they look manly
enough.”— Sunday newspaper.
“Before bakers are granted an in-
crease in the price of their ‘dough
1 suggest they be given a test to hnd
if they can bake bread.”
—Letter to Sydney daily.
A few perhaps will rise to the
occasion.
“Lost: Male Golden Cocker
Spaniel named Puddles, owners
worried.” — Suburban paper.
Lest some car splash him over
the road?
•3* *3* *3* .
“Woman, 4-7, to cook plain dinner
Monday to Friday.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser.
Just a chicken required.
A Pressing Need.
A really fine suggestion this,
And students far from playing
truant
Will burn the midnight-oil
pursuant
Of skill in arts that lead to bliss.
But let us hope no pedagogue
Will make the course of study
harder
Than need be lest he damp the
ardor
Of lovers or their minds befog.
So educators, come, discuss
This movement in the right
direction,
And let me make a first sugges-
tion —
An all-embracing syllabus.
BERT.
Beef-cake.
None but the brave deserve the
fair,
But now the brave will have to
wear
Synthetic cushioning to cheat
Our guileless (?) maids, and so
defeat
A rival most unfairly blest
By nature with a massive chest:
Grim humor this, if Cupid’s
dart
Right through sponge-rubber to
the heart
Won’t pierce, but, glancing,
should impale
Some overage pigeon-chested
male.
JEAN STANGER.
Diary of a Temporary Civil
Servant Who Tells.
Monday: Got to office 10.20.
Boss glanced pointedly at clock.
The hide of the cow! Who does
he think he is, anyway? Called
me in and wanted to know how
position of correspondence stood.
Told him we ought to catch up
on the last of the 1948 stuff by
about April. He said some cove
out in the mulga had complained
to Minister that application he
had put in eight months ago
hadn’t been dealt with. Askeu
boss did he think we were speed-
hogs, and told him I couldn t
care less if the Department’s
notification that his application
had been knocked back and a
cable from the King congratu-
lating him on reaching 100 were
received by the bloke simultane-
ously. After morning-tea (10.45-
11.50) carried around file which
“Has it been sterilised , doctor?
makes it look as if I have some-
thing to do, while discussing
Week-end sport, till lunch.
After lunch (1 p.m.-3.10 p.m.)
kept waking up every quarter-
hour or so. Damned annoying
—if the typists want to bang at
their machines why can’t they
be considerate and do it after
I’ve gone? Nothing worse than
insomnia. Took up file and
went into Record Room to do
some searching. Must have
been knocked out with all the
work I’ve had to do —didn’t
wake up till after eight o’clock.
Must remember to put in for
overtime. .
Tuesday: Appalling pile of
applications awaiting me when
I arrived 10.30 fully six.
Shoved them in bottom drawer
of de*sk with a heap of others.
Have found it a good plan to
keep complicated-looking ones
on ice for a few weeks before
“dicing” them. Rest can stop
there, on well-established depart-
mental principle that if an official
communication is kept long
enough it automatically answers
itself. Boss put notice up this
morning that morning-tea must
not take longer than half an
hour. Struth! They couldn’t
have been treated worse than
this in Belsen. Boss is getting
very cocky since Menzies came
in. He wouldn’t have dared put
up that notice when Ben was in
the chair. Acting-temporary-
assistant Chief Clerk ran me
down just as I was having a
smoke at end of morning-tea
(12.10 p.m.) and got me to sort
out a drawerful of 12a forms —
buff ones had got mixed with
whites and greens. Said it
shouldn’t take more than half
an hour. Got rid of book of
raffle-tickets, arranged draw for
office ta b 1 e-tennis tourney,
worked out a crossword puzzle
and won Is. 6d. at solo-whist in
strongroom. Finished day with
splitting headache. Public doesn’t
realise how we slave in their
interest, and the only thanks we
get is abuse.
Wednesday: Finished sorting-
out forms just before lunch.
Waited until 3 p.m. for a.-t.-a.
C.C. to come and get them; he
punched bell for me to bring
them in. Obviously new ap-
pointment is giving him swelled
head. Informed me that since
giving me forms his attention
had been drawn.to fact that same
forms had been recast twice
since being printed, thus render-
ing them out of date. Suggested
that, owing to slackness of work
in Department, I might fill in
the time unsorting them again.
After lunch told boss to expect
me when he me, as 1 had
some cross-checking on a file
in the adjoining Backing and
Filling Department. Not a bad
film, though the potboiler sup-
port was pretty weak. Show
didn’t come out till just on five.
By rights should put in for over-
time.
Thursday: Awakened ungodly
hour of eight when damned
phone rang, and couldn’t get to
sleep again. Decided might as
well be at office. G6t in 9.40.
Junior typist said I’d be heading
for nervous breakdown if I got
in that early. Said she thought
I looked ill, due to strain of rush-
ing to work. Happened to look
in mirror, and it struck me I did
look a bit yellow. First put it
down to mirror being right
alongside amber-colored win-
dow, but decided it could be
illness. Went home 9.50 a.m.
Friday: Carelessly left on
table outside boss’s office trusty
old file-decoy I’ve been carrying
around from one office to an-
other for months while yarning,
He happened to pick it up and
found out who left it there—
talk about the Gestapo! He
went me about hanging on to it
for so long. Seems it was one
he was being roared up about
by a high-up oyer delay in
finalising it. Was just going to
put him in his place by remind-
ing him I was a pal of the
Minister when I remembered
there was a different mob of
Ministers in now. Annoying in-
terruption after afternoon-tea
(3.0 p.m.-3.45 p.m.). One of
typists woke me up to ask
couldn’t I snore without whist-
ling on the down-beat. Left at
4.20 p.m. for haircut. Hair
partly grows at work so see no
reason why it shouldn’t be
pruned in Government’s time.
Didn’t get out of chair till 5.20,
Sign off when I get in Mon-
day and mustn’t forget to claim
overtime.
Bo.
No Plug-ugly.
“Weak-looking men often grow a
moustache and smoke a pipe to
create a strong look.”
—Letter to Melbourne daily.
When Nature sets about design-
ing
The sort of face we class as
weak
No lamentation or repining
Can make it look as tough as
teak.
For cultivating facial bristle
To camouflage an upper lip
May just provoke a she-wolf
whistle
Or bring from kids a taunting
quip.
Nor is the right solution smok-
ing,
For some tobacco’s now so
crook
That anyone engaged in stoking
The stuff acquires a weedy look.
D.H.E.


hl
m
DISTl^'^V
■
GW
MS
V3S&H
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE VI.
Tanqueray Gordon and Co. Ltd,
suopiog
£y*”t)
m
:tTD
V
o/avs mays? s.mviasn.
291-293 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE—Phone 81331.
just Atri
ved f rom
gnglaid-
\
Order NOW!
.23 “Ralock” Automatic Rifle. Shoots 8 long: rifle; 25in. round
barrel; easy take apart; beautifully balanced £34/10/-
Special Model .33 “Ralock” Auto-
matic. Shoots 13 shorts only.
Price £3l/5/
,22 E.S.A, Sportsman’s Ten. Bolt
Action Tubular Magazine Repeating
Rifle. Shoots 10 long rifle.
Price £l4/7/6
.22 B.S.A. Target Rifle. Martini action; fitted with Parker Hale
rearsight; tunnel foresight, with interchangeable discs.
Price £33/14/6
Cartridges available with each Rifle Purchased.
B.S.A. AIR RIFEES.
“Cadet” (.177 cal.). Price £B/15/-
“Cadet” Major (.177 cal.). Price £lO/15/-
x"
hj
They're Here!
HI-POWER RIFLES
.22 Sprinter 10-shot Repeater. Built on Bee Enfield action;
muzzle velocity 3800 feet per second. Price £22/19/6
Ammunition 70/- per 100,
.22 Hornet Repeating Rifle. Built on Bee Enfield action;
5 shot; muzzle velocity 2600 feet per second. Price £29/10/9
Ammunition 65/- per 100.
.22 S.S. B.S.A. Hornet. Built on famous B.S.A. Martini Henry
action. Price £l2/18/6
Cartridges 65/- per 100,
REG. A. BAKER for all SHOOTERS’ SUNDRIES, including 22
and .303 Parker Hale; also Aperture Sights, Telescopic Sights, etc.
SEND FOR A FREE CATALOGUE
✓
/
I
kf
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Evidently the “blitz” launched by
the stewards against rough and care-
less riding at Rosehill a couple o
weeks back didn’t register with some
of the lads. Drizzling ram produced
a fair facsimile of Scotch mist at
Rosehill on Saturday; it didn’t, how-
ever, prevent the stipes sighting
several cases of bad interference. Up-
shot of a string of inquiries was that
apprentices F. Hudson and H. Weis-
mantle each stopped one months
suspension; other riders were let ott
with a spot of quiet advice.
Displaying the remarkable presci-
ence which so frequently marks their
operations, bookmakers opened Pen-
more at 4 to 1 for the Flying Handi-
cap (6|f.), notwithstanding that the
Pentheus five-year-old had registered
his last previous win in November,
1948, and had not started since July,
1949. Eventually Penmore went out
favorite at 5 to 2 and proved every
bit the good thing that had been
anticipated.
After bouncing him smartly out
from the barrier, jockey G. Moore
eased Penmore back into about
fourth place when the speedy Tartan
Girl took up the running. Approach-
ing the turn Moore let Penmore loose,
and, finishing well out in the centre
of the track, he won by three lengths
with a fair bit in reserve. The veteran
Brazier finished fast to edge Tartan
Girl out of second place.
The bookmaking fraternity were 1
not so well prepared for the hefty
plunge landed when Le Dauphin (S.
Carter), making his first public ap-
pearance, scored a runaway victory
in the 4|-furlongs Maiden for two-
year-old colts and geldings. Early,
12 to 1 was available against Le
Dauphin, but the odds fairly tumbled
down to a starting quote of 9 to 2.
Finishing full of running, after being
well up with the field all the way, Le
Dauphin won by three lengths from
Elegant Lad and Gallant Leader. A
nice style of chestnut colt, raced in
the same interests as Columnist, Le
Dauphin is a son of Genetout-
Jeune Fille. The Maiden for two-
year-old fillies was won almost
as easily by Colonel’s Daughter (A.
Podmore), who looks a useful type
and has been placed at her only three
starts. A daughter of Mosaic-
Colonel’s Lady, Colonel’s Daughter
won by two lengths from Lady
Rosetta and Soft Answer.
A disappointing field, both in size
and quality, contested the 10-furlongs
Rosehill Handicap. There were only
six runners, and heading the weights
was the veteran Doughnut, conced-
ing the others 111 b. and upward. The
New Zealand-bred Thimble, who
seems at last to have struck
a patch of form, won the race
very easily from the favorite Lone
Duke and Doughnut. Thimble is a
son of imported Theio, a grey stal-
lion descended from The Tetrarch.
Australian-bred sires supplied four
ot the eight winners at Rosehill.
Penmore is, of course, by Pentheus.
Colonel’s Daughter was one to' the
credit of the dual Sydney Cup winner
Mosaic, who notched up a double
when King Lear (Mosaic-Young
Robin) won the 10-furlongs Auburn
Mixed. In addition, the nine-furlongs
Welter went to High Ideals, a son of
the Epsom winner and all-round fine
performer High Caste. Imported sires
were credited with both divisions of
the Lake Mixed —a new name coined
for the new Rosehill sprint distance
of seven furlongs and 81yds. Lady
in Grey, a grey daughter of Mani-
toba, was, with a long neck to spare
in the first division, the narrowest
winner of a day on which the photo-
“Don’t swallow —that’s the only ball we have!”
finish chappies had an unusually easy
time. Sunny Marsh, a three-year-old
colt by Amaranthus-Crystal, had a
couple of lengths to spare in the
second division.
* * * *
Punters who “follow the money”
(often a prime example of sending
good money after bad) had a
profitable afternoon at Moonee
Valley on Saturday, when the winners
on a card of seven events included
four favorites and two second-
favorites.
Main attraction was the £l5OO C.
F. Orr Stakes, first weight-for-age
event of the New Year, and looked
upon as a “gift” for Comic Court,
who started at 7 to 4 on. The “good
thing” failed to materialise, but for
those viewing proceedings other than
through their pockets it was a
splendid race. Over the mile journey
Comic Court was most of the way in
a commanding position, but shortly
after passing the three L. Lott, on
second-favorite St. Razzle, “went for
the doctor” and gained a lead which
Comic Court was not quite able to
bridge; he failed by a half-neck. The
short Moonee Valley straight told
against Comic Court, but, by the
same token, St. Razzle is a much
better horse than is sometimes
credited, and Lott rode him cleverly.
. * .
While Comic Court missed out,
those who like to “buy money” had
better luck with the brilliant sprinter
Dornoch, who started at 5 to 4 on
for the six-furlongs Chelsea Handicap
and won pretty much as lie chose.
Leading throughout, Dornoch was a
couple of lengths clear at the finish,
Sefton and High Production filling
the places; Domoch will be one to
reckon with in the coming rich sprint
events, though he was reported, after
Saturday’s race, a doubtful starter
for the Oakleigh Plate.
Speaking of doubtful starters, one
is moved to suggest that sporting
scribes might do best in their own
interest to refrain from thus labelling
in pre-race discussions any acceptor.
Quite a number of allegedly unlikely
starters have not only started, but
have won. A case in point was the
Pageant five-year-old Henley (J.
Vasil), mentioned on Friday as an
improbable, but eventually facing the
starter in the 13-furlongs Keys-
borough Handicap and winning by
three lengths from Dovette, with the
remainder strung out hither and yon.
Henley started a solid favorite at
5 to 2.
If ever a horse was due for a win
it was the hurdler Full Moon, but it
must have taken extraordinary per-
severance to support him on Satur-
day after many months of continual
promise repeatedly unredeemed.
Ridden by B. R. Smith, the grey
Nizami gelding finally came good in
the Marmont Hurdle. In front most
of the trip, he had a lot to spare at
the finish from Saxondale and
Mariner.
The first Sturt Handicap for two-
year-olds had looked a simple
proposition, but the withdrawal of
King Richard, who would most prob-
ably have started at odds-on, con-
fused the issue. The oddly-named
Little Toot then looked the logical
favorite, but a flood of well-informed
cash brought Magic Saint (W. Wil-
liamson) tumbling down from eights
to 5 to 2, what time the wee Toot
drifted from evens to twos. Magic
Saint (by St. Magnus-Hooting Light)
won well from Captain Red with
Little Toot close up third.
Magic Saint was in receipt of
weight from two horses having their
first start in a race. The second
division of the Sturt saw another
bright example of this indefensible
handicapping system. Alister, hav-
ing his first outing, was receiving
weight only from Chateau Prince
(who started favorite); was conced-
ing weight to nine of the 13 starters,
several of whom had minor placings
to their credit, and was on the same
mark as the Hellespont filly Just Jane
(R. Hutchinson), who had run second
at her three previous outings. The
only surprising thing about Just
Jane’s winning the race, which she
did by three lengths, was that she
started at the generous quote of 7
to 1.
For Rand wick (before accept-
ances :
Collingwood Nursery: Even Flow,
1; Fair Diana, 2; Niaranga, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Playboy,
1; Anahuac, 2; Elusive, 3. Ingle-
bum Juvenile: Le Dauphin, 1; Navi-
gate, 2; Ocean Prince, 3. Berala
Novice: Blandstream, 1; Ferocious
Lass, 2; Courtspear, 3. Glenfield
Handicap: Bold Archer, 1; Beau
Robert, 2; Laudus, 3. Warwick
February Handicap: Brig o’ Doon,
1; Penthrillus, 2; Proctor, 3. Sunny-
brook Handicap: Tartan Girl, 1;
Fuselage, 2; Flisk Milne, 3.
* * * *
The crucial Sheffield Shield match
N.S.W. v. Victoria at Sydney Cricket
Ground saw N.S.W. score an out-
right win to retain the Shield.
Although there seemed no rea-
son for the pitch to be playing
any tricks, bowlers were on top pretty
well throughout the match. Partial
exception was the first day’s play,
when the N.S.W. batsmen played
confidently and attractively for a total
of 312, which, it turned out, won
them the match. Before having the
misfortune to do in his fetlock,
N.S.W. trundler Alan Davidson
wrought havoc among the Victorians,
who managed a total of only 123 in
their first dig. Victoria’s Jack Iverson
theif returned the compliment; Iver-
son bagged six for 30 off 9.2 overs,
and the N-S.W. second-innings total
was 142. With Victoria again col-
lapsing for a tally of 135 the match
was finished with a day to spare.
New South Wales has now won the
Shield 25 times, Victoria 17, South
Australia 6, Westralia 1, while
Queensland, which came in in
1926-27, presumably remains hopeful.
The Australians in South Africa
are perpetrating a literal tour de
force. The slaughter continued last
week with Transvaal licked by seven
wickets at Jo’burg, and North-east
Transvaal Country Districts cleaned
up to the tune of an innings and 170
runs at Witbank. At time of writ-
mg the troops were in Pretoria doing
battle with another North-east Trans-
vaal team. «■
v " *•. t * ’ ’
Young Neil Harvey has been the
star turn of the tour. A score of
41 at Pretoria on Saturday brought
up his 1000 runs for the tour, and
he heads the batting averages both
for the Tests and for all first-class
matches. Bill Johnston heads the Test
bowling averages with 19 wickets at
a cost of 16.10 each, but Noblet has
the best figures for all first-class
matches—33 wickets at an average of
13.09.
*.* * *
The Empire Games opened in New
Zealand on Saturday, and Australia
on the first day got away to a
flying start first, second and
third in the women’s 100yds.; first,
second and fourth in the men’s
sprint. Lithgow lass Marjorie Jack-
son stamped herself very much world
class by twice, in a heat and again in
the final, equalling Fanny Blankets-
Koen’s world record of 10.8 seconds
for the 100yds., a time which she also
equalled here a few weeks back. The
previous Empire Games record was
Decima Norman’s ll.lsec. John
Treloar had no difficulty in winning
the men’s 100yds. from his team-
mate W. De Gruchy, after the event
had been held up for more than an
hour by a Canadian representative’s
insistence on adherence to Bung rules.
Westralia’s John Winter, winner of
the London Olympic Games high-
jump title, added the Empire Games
title to his bag with a leap of 6ft. 6in.
* * * *
The Australian lawn-tennis cham-
pionships at Kooyong last week saw
young Frank Sedgman retain his title
against the challenge of the even
younger Ken McGregor. McGregor,
who hasn’t qualified for the key of
the house yet, did wonderfully well
to get through to the final. He had
not been seeded, but en route beat
three seeded players, including the
No. 1 man, Drobny. However,
Sedgman proved too experienced in
the final, winning 6-3, 6-4, 4-6, 6-1.
McGregor has come to the top in
tennis after earlier entertaining am-
bitions of making his mark in ’Rules
football. It is scarcely surprising
that he should have had ambitions in
that direction. Ken’s father is Bruce
McGregor, and to any keen follower
of ’Rules and any South Australian
there is no need to expand on that
statement. However, for the en-
lightenment of heathen adherents of
other codes, Bruce McGregor was
among the best ’Rules men ever
turned out in South Australia,
•_• • • •
Making a few pertinent deductions
from the results of the national
championships, the Australian Davis
Cup selectors have at last seen the
light. Less conservative students de-
tected the glimmer two or three years
ago. Sweeping aside nearly all the
old hands, the selectors have chosen
a team of youngsters for this year’s
Cup quest, with Bromwich thrown
in as a backbone of experience and
still one of the world’s best at
doubles. Brom’s youthful con-
freres are to be Sedgman, McGregor,
Worthington and Rose—all just into
their twenties. Another good move
is the selection of a man with Davis
Cup experience as captain-manager—
this job to Harry Hopman.
* * •
The N.S.W. lawn-tennis people,
whose ill luck is nigh incredible, again
fell foul of the weather man with
the international series they had
arranged for last Friday and Satur-
day. Drobny, Sturgess and the
national singles finalists Sedgman and
McGregor promised the best draw-
card the association has had in years,
hut a blustering cross-court wind
an d occasional misty rain ruined
Friday’s play, and on Saturday it
came down in buckets. Better luck
to them for next weekend
American lasses Doris Hart and
Louise Brough are to . lay a series
against Mrs. Bolton and Miss Fitch.
* * *
* e( l Sprouster _ (8.12-A) lost his
N.S.W. featherweight title to Dai
Sterling (8.134) in rather • k
circumstances at Leichhardt last week,
Matters progressed in orthodox
fashion and fairly evenly fox four
rounds. When the bell rang for the
fifth Sterling did a John Treloar act
ou t of his corner and slammed
Sprouster with a right to the jaw,
what time the Sprouster in his inno-
cence was merely contemplating the
matter of arising. Ele got about half-
way.


-.-Ax \\
, j: |\ \\
\ / ' v ■ |.ul.._: ■
A.li.L & .r
mmv
AS m OPWAT~
GRANDFATHER'S
pay/
Today swift freight
’planes replace the sail-
ing vessels of yesteryear
in the transport of stud
stock—just one of the
great changes in which
A.M.L.&F. has partici-
pated during 87 years’
service to the Man on
the Land.
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE. LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches: —Y.S.IP.; Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina, Cooma and Deniliquin.
Q’land: Townsville, Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi,
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and
Pittsworth, Ycates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, H. P. Yeneas & 00. Pty.,
Ltd., Winton. Vic,: Wodonga, Korumburra.
“Phenovis" Worm Remedy
M n cH time is .
S** me!
KEEP IT
HANDY—
THE NEW
IMPROVED
/'/!
■//,//.
n
/.
* /
j.
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
tbh
df
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
>HE-2-X‘ 0 ‘ 41
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
" DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
Dorsets Popular.
“Pat O’Day”: At recent sales
of British breeds of sheep at
Wagga (N.S.W.) spirited bid-
ding was made for Dorset Horn
sires, both for studs aivd
ordinary flocks. The favored
cross is on a Romney Marsh
ewe, the resulting lamb being
top grade for export or home
consumption.
Recently a Wagga farmer
won a lamb-breeders’ ewe com-
petition for a State champion-
ship with Romney ewes aged
three, four and five years with
lambs sired by Dorset Horns.
Wagga Government experiment
farm are great believers in the
Dorset, and some old students
now settled on their own
properties have stuck to this
breed, and it has not let them
down
Horset-Romney lambs were
recently sold at Tumut at well
r 'er the £2 mark, although ex-
celled lines of other woolly
lam 1 were at least 10s. under
that in saleyards not many miles
away. At Wagga there was only
one v.i of Dorset-Romney
lambs, they were the outstand-
ing lot in the yards and made
top price.
A characteristic of lambs of
this cross is their 'uniformity,
and as quick-maturers they have
no equal. For this reason
Riverina breeders, who have to
beat the grass-seed, find the
cross most attractive. Early
joining of Romney ewes to
Dorset sires, such as in October
or November, means a lamb
maturing weeks ahead of the
grass-seed.
Pasture-improvement.
“Dick Turpin”: There is
ample evidence in the Tumba-
rumba (N.S.W.) district of what
pasture-improvement can do to
poor land in a reasonable-rain-
fall area. One farmer who paid
only 11s. an acre for fern-and-
bracken country 12 years ago
is now running 660 sheep all the
year round on 100 acres which
he cleared and sowed with
perennial-rye and sub.-clover.
Another, whose land was too
hilly for implements, sowed a
similar mixture from horseback
and achieved more than satis-
factory results.
During the past 10 years there
has been a big increase in
pasture operations in the district,
and paddocks carrying six sheep
to the acre for 11 months of the
year are common.
Perennial-rye and sub, in con-
junction are most used, but
Wimmera- and Italian-rye,
cocksfoot, phalaris, red and
white clover are becoming popu-
lar. Top-dressing is done
annually, usually a bag of super,
to the acre.
Pastures sown only last
autumn are already showing a
great cover of grass and clover
due to the good season, and
those that were sown 12 or more
years ago are as heavy in the
sward as ever.
The pasture that won the
district pasture competition, a
mixture of perennial and Italian
ryes with red and white clovers,
was established as late as last
April. Since then the 30-acre
paddock has been fed off by 850
sheep on three occasions, and in
late November presented a
vigorous growth. It cost this
farmer £3 10s. an acre to work
the transformation, but it has
trebled his carrying-capacity,
and with wool and lambs at their
present level he won’t be out
of pocket for long.
Wheat Practices.
“He-Ne”: Two good sugges-
tions are made by the Gunnedah
agronomist, J. A. O’Reilly, to
help north-west N.S.W. continue
producing heavy crops of wheat.
He urges (1) retirement of slop-
ing soils from consistent crop-
ping and exploration of level
and plain soils, and (2) crea-
tion and encouragement of the
production pf a suitable stubble-
mulching machine to enable
sloping soils to be cultivated
with a minimum loss through
water erosion.
O’Reilly said stubble-burning
is losing popularity, and to save
the soil from erosion it is best
to retain the straw as close to
the surface as possible. When
straw is ploughed through the
soil a greater amount of air is
imprisoned, and when it becomes
warm and moist favorable con-
ditions are set up for the de-
velopment of plant life and soil-
inhabiting organisms. This last
could have been responsible for
the fairly general appearance of
footrot in nor’-west N.S.W.
crops in this season.
Bulk-handling of Wheat.
“R.H.”: If “He-Ne” is
worried at the prospect of hav-
ing to do without cornsacks from
India (B. 4/1/’5O), he won’t have
to go to Canada or U.S.A. for
the solution. For many years a
co-operative company, in con-
junction with the State railways,
has bulk-handled most of Wes-
tralia’s wheat. Now, with the
railways in difficulties, part of
the crop is going by road direct
from paddock to ship’s side. As
I write, big diesel trucks are roar-
ing past with huge loads of loose
wheat from the wheatbelt to
Fremantle.
Care of the Foal.
“Rooster”: Watch the bowels
carefully during the first
months; constipation and
diarrhoea are common. Consti-
pation is first noticed by the
foal’s straining without result. It
whisks its tail incessantly and
may turn its head towards its
flank. Give it a soap-and-warm-
water enema two or three times
a day. The forefinger should' be
well smeared with glycerine and
passed into the rectum so that
any hard masses of dung may
be removed, Castof-oil may be
given if necessary, the dose de-
pending on the animal’s age
(two to eight tablespoonfuls). If
the foal is in much pain give 20
to 30 drops of chlorodyne in
warm- milk.
Diarrhoea is nearly always
present when some derange-
“Strip Strawberry? But she's got nothing on, has she?
ment of the mare’s milk affects
the foal’s digestion. Try to trace
and eliminate the cause. Foals
poddied on cow’s milk are often
affected. A dose of loz. to 2oz.
of castor-oil will usually cure
the trouble, but if it persists it
may be necessary to have a
diarrhoea mixture made up by
the chemist. A good home-made
mixture is: 2oz. of prepared
chalk, loz. of powdered catechu,
1 drm. of powdered opium, ioz.
of powdered ginger, a pint of
peppermint mixture. Dose, two
tablespoonfuls thrice daily.
At three-months-old the foal
will eat a little crushed oats and
will nibble at grass. Wean at
six months. Whilst still sucking
it should have access to drink-
ing water. After weaning give
small quantities of good chaff
and crushed oats daily to supple-
ment what it gets by grazing. ,
Handling and training should
begin at a week or two old.
Treat kindly but firmly. Teach
it to lead and to understand your
gestures and commands.
Handled in this way foals be-
come very tractable, and it is
then easier to break them in to
harness when the time comes.
More Pigs for Home.
“Agric”: L. A. Downey, a
pig expert of Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture, contends
that the tendency to regard the
export market as the pig in-
dustry’s chief objective over-
looks the present and potential
importance of the Australian
market. Given adequate pur-
chasing-power and the oppor-
tunity to obtain pigmeats of
good quality, Australians would,
he holds, eat more than their
past average of 231 b. per head
per annum; in fact, the present
population could eat more pigs
than have been grown in the last
two years.
Downey recommends that
specifications of the meat and
carcasses of ideal porker- and
baconer-pigs should be publi-
cised, and he favors investiga-
tion of the desirability of com-
pulsory grading of carcasses and
payment on a weight-and-grade
basis.
He also recommends an in-
formation service to publish
forecasts and conclusions at
least twice a year for the infor-
mation of producers, traders and
Governments. Apart from eco-
nomic limitations such as an
unfavorable feed - pork price
ratio, adverse seasons and short-
ages of materials pig-production
suffered from a lack of confi-
dence among those engaged in it.
There was suspicion between
the three major interests con-
cerned —producers, traders and
Governments. A fuller inter-
change of information between
these parties would reduce
barriers to production.
Figures quoted by Downey
show the parlous state of the
industry. On March 31 last
there were 1,196,000 pigs in the
Commonwealth, or 435,000 (27
per cent.) fewer than in 1945,
while pigmeat production shrank
from 127,005 tons in 1944-45 to
86,099 tons in 1947-48.
~ ■ t
Red Spider.
“Nubis”: This fellow is really
a mite and is a serious garden
pest in hot, dry weather. The
female lays about 100 eggs in
her life of about three weeks,
and there may be over 20 genera-
tions in one year. They are so
small they are barely visible, and
your first warning will be the
mottled, unhealthy appearance
of the foliage.
They attack a wide variety of
plants, including peas, straw-
berries, cucumbers, tomatoes,
carnations, violets, geraniums,
shrubs and many fruit-trees.
Examine the under-side of the
infested leaf—it will probabh
appear to have been dusted will
fine powder. This is caused b\
the excreta and cast skins of th!
spiders—attached to the leave'
by the fine webs which they S pi n
To control, keep your plant-
well watered — by sprinkler'
preferably—and clear of weeds
which may act as hosts. Whip
oil (1/40 or less) or kerosem
emulsion are effective sprays. It
make kerosene emulsion, dis
solve £lb. of soap in one gal. o
hot water. Add slowly two gals
of kerosene, stirring vigorous!'
the while. This may be kept a
a stockpile, but before use i
should be broken down—oni
part of emulsion to eight part
of water. On delicate foliage, o
in very hot weather, use a lesse
concentration —one in 12.
Marrows.
“Taswegian”: Don’t grov
running-marrows in the homi
garden; bush-marrows tab
very little space
yet tear prolifi-
cally if well
treated. For each
plant dig a hole
a couple of feet
square by about
18in. deep, half-
fill it with well-
rotted stable
manure, then top
up with soil to
form a slight
mound. Sow four
or five seeds, and
when they come
through protect
them with snail-
killer. When they
are well estab-
lished leave one
plant to each
mound; the
others can be
transplanted.
Marrows like
plenty of water,
and respond
readily to liquid
cow manure.
Don’t let the mar-
rows mature;
they are nicer
young, and the
plants will pro-
duce more as they are cut.
Try this: Cut a young marrow
in halves across, scoop out the
pith and seeds, stuff with
minced, seasoned meat, tie the
halves together and roast in fat.
Served in thick wheels, it 15
delicious.
Fire-prevention.
“C.S.”: The Commonwealth
Meteorological Bureau has pub-
lished “A Study of Meteoro-
logical Conditions Associate
with Bpsh and Grass Fires an
Fire Protection Strategy in Aus-
tralia,” by J. C. Foley,
The bureau says an importan
factor in planning fire-contro
operations, and in estimating
probable behavior of fires, is t -
weather, and the publication ■'
designed to assist both the n
fighter and the average citiz*.


For Accuracy
and Distinction
uvim
Watches
S
==" 17
Jewelled
- Swiss Masterpieces
with NON-MAGNETIC
ESCAPEMENT
I4V//VA
WATCHES
Founded in 1852
Z. VILLERET, SUISSE _I
S=_ *
LW.3
* r 41
C
Sores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti*
septic , Cuticura cannot
harm baby's tender skin.
One of the famous trio—
Cuticura Ointment. "Soap
and Talcum Powder. ,
hfthbj
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ATT.
MURPHY, a blend Of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HILLTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
wh per lb. Posted.
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. “gS”
S? cr U °over. t 0 BeMhn lot * 20lb '
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on 0.0. D. Orders.
fg
For and Eyelidr
Had S ° LD EVERYWHERE
tLA-Rose&Co.Pfv i«h K’j-n-jt -Tyn,,,,,
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
n
i
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
HH »
m
m
t-
mm
i H
a
m
Ya
m
: •:
LCI9
PUT THE
INTO SALES
PROMOTION!
Lemcol Industrial Ball-bearing
Wheels and Swivel and Rigid Casters
are ideal for use with racks, platforms
or any other commercial or indus-
trial equipment that needs easy
mobility to speed up sales and ser-
vices. From the 16" pneumatic-tyred
giant caster (shown here) to small 3-
inchers, they are far ahead in carrying
capacity, durability and ease of running.
Distributors; S.A.: McPherson’s
Ltd.; Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd.;
Cornell Ltd.; Harris, Scarfe Ltd.;
Industrial Trucks & Equipment
Co.; Lemcol Sales & Service Co.
N.S.W.: E. W. Cox; Power En-
gineering: Supplies Pty. Ltd.; Wm.
Adams & Co. Ltd.; J. C. Ludowicl
& Son Ltd.; McPherson’s Ltd.;
Eliza Tinsley Pty. Ltd. VIC. &
TAS.: Eliza Tinsley Pty. Ltd.;
Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd.; J. C.
Ludowicl & Son Ltd.; McPherson’s
Ltd.; Perrot & Adams Pty. Ltd.
Q’LAND; $ Engineering Supply
Co. of Aust. Ltd.; $ Wm. Adams
& Co. Ltd.; HjHoey Fry Pty. Ltd.
W.A.: McPherson’s Ltd.; Wm.
Adams & Co. Ltd.; Atkins (W.A.)
Ltd.
$ Wheels and Casters only.
If 11.1 S ft 0 Ml
M.
X
LEMCOL" THE NAME THAT CARRIES WEIGHT!
-■'>
LWt JACK m
5 ELEVATING TRUCK
2 TON TRACER
> ......... I
’ HAND TRUCK
: ' ~*h-\
1-
i m
f. WHEEL PLA
TRU
w
BALLS
MANUFACTURED BY APAC INDUSTRIES LIMITED (INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT DIVISION), FINSBURY
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
mm
■ m
m
* -v .
an
v.
m
}i.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC,
in understanding conditions
under which fires become
dangerous and action which
should be taken to prevent and
suppress them. .
The bulletin contains over 2W
pages of material of practical
value and historic interest. It
is priced at 2s. 6d. per copy so
that it may reach the hands of
those to whom such information
would be most helpful. Copies
may be obtained from the
Director of Meteorological
Services, P.0.»80x 1289 K, Mel-
bourne.
Tobacco Venture.
“2641”: Clareville, tobacco-
growing soldier-settlement about
22 miles up the Burdekin from
Ayr (N.Q.), may be the most
successful of those enterprises
yet launched. Harvesting and
curing is complete, beating the
wet season in a “photo-finish.”
First settlers, numbering 10,
took over their farms on 1/7 /’49.
The farms were ready-made, with
homes, curing- and hulking-
sheds, implements and irrigation
on the spot. Spray irrigation is
used.
Accounts from the area indi-
cate that some of the settlers
will clear from £l5OO to £2OOO
for their first year. While these
10 farmers —already trained by
the Repatriation Department—
were growing their first crop,
others were on the farms as
pupils for the next batch of
farms, expected to be ready this
year.
Using Graphite.
“R.H.G.”: When reassembling
an engine, fit all moving parts
together with a coating of col-
loidal graphite. Pistons so
treated are safe from initial
wear, because colloidal graphite
has peculiar clinging qualities
and will not run off by gravity
as will oil.
Another use for colloidal
graphite is the light painting of
steel rims and wheels before
mounting heavy truck tyres
which, after long running, grip
the metal to a degree which has
to be experienced in sweat and
blood before it can be properly
appreciated. The graphite will
help to ease the tyre off, even
after a considerable period.-
Stubborn tyres can be beaten
by pressing back the bead near
the rim and slipping in a wheel-
nut, repeating this process all
the way round.' Before the nuts
give out the tyre has generally
come away.
Hints for the Farm.
“Malo”: An old cement floor
can be made new and smooth by
giving it a facing of concrete.
Clean the floor thoroughly, then
soak it with clean water.
Sprinkle it with new cement
while still wet, and then apply
the paving mixture made accord-
ing to directions given with the
cement. Make surface smooth
and even, and cover with boards
to prevent footprints until
thoroughly set. Refacing of
paths and patching of steps, etc.,
can be managed easily if care is
taken to make the supporting
frames correctly.
“C.A.A.”; For pickling, red
cabbage is a succulent vegetable.
Plant a few heads, which will be
sufficient for the average table.
Pick before it has become over-
mature, as the young leaves
make the tastiest pickle.
“Taswegian”: To grow
radishes successfully be ruthless
in thinning out; cramped plants
grow spindly and woody. As
soon as the plants are large
enough thin them to an inch
apart. Radishes like friable soil
manured the previous season,
warmth and plenty of water.
Grown quickly, they will be
crisp and juicy and will make a
pleasant addition to a salad.
“Girrawheen”: Better than
shovel and broom for cleaning
poultry-sheds is a sharp-edged
hoe with a long handle that can
push the droppings along, instead
of pulling them towards you;
also, a rake with a piece of stout
tin attached, but leaving a small
gap between the rake teeth and
tin, will permit the double-action
of scratching and raking.
“Jonman”: To stop a plough-
horse from throwing his head all
the time attach a small weight to
the forehead-band of the winkers
so that when he throws his head
the weight hits him. The weight
should be short so it will not
injure the eyes.
“Milo”: Kikuyu is unpopular
in small gardens because it .in-
vades the flower-beds if not
trimmed back constantly. In
sandy paddocks this fault of
spreading becomes a virtue.
Kikuyu is good fodder and will
bind and hold the soil as
nothing else will. Gutters and
holes filled with stones and
covered with sand provide good
beds for kikuyu.
‘‘Paw Paw”; An experimental
281 b. case of the famous Bowen
special mangoes has left Queens-
land by air to test the English
mango market. If the experi-
ment works, the Bowen (N.Q.)
Progress Association hopes to
inaugurate a regular “mangoes-
by-air” service from Bowen to
London. Londoners will prob-
ably have to pay 7s. 6d. each
for the mangoes. Before being
sold in London they will be ex-
amined at Kew Gardens for
maturity, flavor, color and keep-
ing properties.


n
5*
LUDOVICI
INDUSTRIAL
PACKINGS &
JOINTINGS
Jo facilitate ordering, J. C. & SON LTD.
will gladly supply on request a specification sheet that
covers every vital factor to ensure satisfactory service
in the application of all types of Packings. IPs a free
J.C.L. Technical Service write for your copy to-dayl
synthetic rubber
Rubber
>S ‘*ST0 S
'"‘OSITI
9 ***U e J 1
on
tudowici’s range of Industrial Packings and Jointings
now covers Industry’s full requirements. In addition
to our universally recognised line of Leather Packings
for hydraulic and pneumatic applications, we maintain
a complete range of high and low pressure steam pack-
ings and jointings in both Australian and imported
brands.
also supply a full range of rubber and synthetic
rubber, packings, gaskets, dust excluders and the
approved Flu-Seal oil and grease retainers.
fgb
J. C. LUDOWICI & SOM LID.,
117 YORK ST., SYDNEY. BX 5841. 20-28 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE. MX 3101-3.
Leather Belting • Rubber Belting • Conveyor and Elevator Belting • Round Leather Belting • Textile Leathers •
Belting Accessories • Leather Packings • High-Speed Grinder Belts • V Belt Drives • Industrial Clutches • Plain
Bearings • Anti-Friction Bearings • Steel Shafting • Shafting Couplings • Shafting Hangers' • Microid Bearing Metals
• Porous Bronze Bushes • Gears • Pulleys • Wall , Brackets • Variable-Speed Drives • Ludowid Pivot Drive •
Fla-Seal Oil Retainers • Composition Packings • Lutex Industrial Plastics * Industrial Gloves * Rubber Hose •
Lemcol High Quality Trucks. Wheels, Castors, etc.
When the cows and calves
were safely yarded for the nieht
old Chegully delighted in a race
to the hut, the distance about
half a mile. Chegully always
gave the starting-word, and he
made sure that he wasn’t left
either ; he was unlucky if
didn’t win. George McCarthy
a hard-doer, gave the boys the
whisper that he was going to
wheel old Chegully’s horse
around the plain that evening
and to be ready to go for their
lives; Mac was alongside
Chegully when he said “Go”
and slewed his horse around
while all the boys got a good
break. Chegully came home last
and enjoyed the joke. He sang
them his favorite song “I’m
Sittin’ on the Stile, Mary.” The
boys cheered old Chegully to
the echo that evening.
I didn’t know that our old
super was a widower. He had kept
a hotel at Wentworth, near Kin-
chega, on the Darling, in his
young days. There his young
wife died. The Hughes Brothers
owning Kinchega station at that
time offered Chegully its man-
agement. He accepted the offer,
and he liked that sort of life.
Afterwards he came to Nocka-
tunga. The old chap was
over forty years in the Hughes
Brothers employ, and was smart
and active even as an old man;
there wasn’t a better judge of
stock in the whole continent.
SPORTS and races were on
at Nocundra—Nocka (water)
undra (rock). The sports hap-
pened about once a year, but
this was a special year. The
Hughes Brothers were down
from Nockatunga to enjoy
themselves, and between them
marched their Chinese cook.
They explained all details to
their Celestial employee;
whether their almond-eyed friend
understood remained a mystery.
The Hughes Brothers had
“Banjo” Paterson as their guest
at Nockatunga. “The Banjo”
attended the sports, and was the
idol of all and sundry.
Chegully saw that “The
Banjo” rode the fastest sprinter
at the sports, and, of course, he
won the sprint.
It was nothing to hear the
bushman reciting in “Two Bob’s”
bar in honor of “The Banjo’
and to let him hear how well
they could recite his poems—
“ The Man from Ironbark,”
“Pardon, the Son of Reprieve”
or “Saltbush Bill.”
Some of the boys recited local
stuff such as “Peter’s Mules’
and asked “Banjo” his opinion.
He said it was o.k.
Chegully won the double with
his horses, and Flash Sam rode
the winner of the blackboys
race. With concertina leggings
and goose-neck spurs and shined-
up elastic-side boots, he wa s
flasher than ever, a multicolored
silk handkerchief around bis
waist for a belt, one in his shirt-
pocket, one each sticking out ot
his trouser-pockets and a sliK
pugaree around his hat. “Arma-
dulla Khan,” the Indian hawker,
had plenty for sale.
Billy Ritchie, the contractor,
was at the sports with all
family ; Mrs.'Ritchie lived in m
bush all her life and liked j •
She had never seen a train, om,
heard of them. She didn’t wan
any city life ; the bush was go
enough for her, •
“Well, Mrs. Ritchie,
not on your own,” said
Costello. “I was born an
reared in the bush, and 1 n ,
reared a family in the bush,
haven’t seen a train, e i t “ er ’ (h
bush will do me, too,
hardly a day’s sickness through
all those years —and no doc ■
Why, doctors would stan [? nts
this country waiting for pah
—only a few colds now and
or barcoo-rot, or barcoo-spe .
when the flies were bad
rain.” 4l r t > s
“Yes,” said Chegully. ..
the healthiest country I
BOGGED
By MICHAEL
SEAGER
THE big limousine
gradually drew to
standstill. It didn’t
look too promis-
ing. The two men
jumped out and sur-
veyed the landscape un-
certainly.
It was early autumn
and some weeks after
the heavy flooding in
south-west Queensland.
As far as the eye
could see sheets of
water lay still and glittering
in the hot sun. Ibex and
wild duck were plentiful and
unafraid, and a double line of
posts marked . the causeway
through the swamps. It was im-
possible to gauge the depth be-
tween the posts, but a passing
lorry had told the travellers
half an hour ago that he had
passed through Lanagan’s
swamps without any trouble.
“The bottom is solid,” said he.
“Just go ahead.”
It was five o’clock, and they
still had fifty miles to go. They
had seen no homestead for the
past seventy miles,
“I’d be inclined to try it,” the
younger man said. “Though the
old lady hasn’t much clearance.”
“I don’t think we have
much choice,” the other replied.
“It will be just the same
tomorrow.”
As they started off a shearer’s
lorry came into sight on the
other side, bound for town. The
shearing had only been com-
pleted that day, and the men
were feeling contented and
sleepy after partaking of the
outback’s staple drink —rum,
“Look at those bloody fools,”
said one. “What do they think
they’re doing, coming out here
in a car like that!”
The causeway was fifty yards
or so long. As he spoke the car
had reached the centre and
lowest point; it choked and
stopped. The water had seeped
through the doors and was a
foot over the floor. The luggage
was awash.
Swearing vividly, the two
occupants rescued their gear and
piled it dripping on the seats;
then, after a hurried consulta-
tion, removed their pants and
gingerly entered the water in
underpants and vest. Sure
enough, the bottom was firm,
but the fly-wheel of the low-
slung limousine had flung the
water up and the engine was
dripping. While the elder man
tried to find a towel to dry the
spark-plugs the younger rum-
maged under water in the boot
after tools. As he drew them
out a wild duck and half-a-
dozen young swam round him
reprovingly on their way to the
other side. A yell came from
the older man as a crab nipped
his toe.
The shearers had left the
lorry and a few
watched rather disin-
terestedly while the rest
brewed some tea. After
their tea, which they
enjoyed in leisurely
fashion, most of them
stretched on the still-
warm ground for a
doze, while a few
stripped and swam in
a deep waterhole.
The sun sank, and
the two figures in
* underpants still worked
desperately and unavailingly on
their car. The food they
had brought was wet and
uneatable, but a bottle*of rum
had been a standby and was
nearly empty. Finally they gave
up in despair and huddled to-
gether for warmth on the front
seat of the car.
Suddenly a shout rent the air.
“Gripes, boys, we can’t get
across till they’re out of there,
and we’ve got to be in town be-
fore morning. Come on.”
In ten minutes a tow-rope was
attached to the limousine’s
bumper-bars. In twenty she was
across and on dry land.
As the drenched occupants
once more settled themselves
uncomfortably to sleep the lorry
rumbled across the causeway,
spewing water to right and left
and, gathering speed, disap-
peared into the night.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKsois Ania
osmxrvAv. v
TRADE marr
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co,
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
lithographic printers
typographers
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ; : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACKSUL,” BRISBANE
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens' Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of oro-
cash ,/ or your family, 01
than r t rS t lf when y° u retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £60,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£9,500,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
Rupture
Fnfwf rs ~ try x the new Roussel Free,
comfnrt you ,, to do hard work with
hnrHa “A. 6ecurit y- Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
lor improvement.
MndT“i end !A b 7 doctors and thou-
satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no natter where, you live.
FREE
Call ,
FREE
r send stamp for
details, self-measure-
S! 'ZAZ.*** <*■
Sot ??, U T!, A PP«">ce Co.,
Place, Sydney.
GOLDEN LEAF
BY
SUN,
m
w,
A
■ BB
i I i
/•-■- .
w :
'. /
£4S
'
•••■•■■■
10 FOR ///I
20 FOR 2/3
and proudly made
in Australia
“Everything about Army Club is just as you
remember it,” said the Major. “The original
flavour of rich golden leaf ripened by sun,
mellowed by time, and the original rice paper
. . . ‘filigrained’ to avoid the taste of printer’s
ink. Added to which the outer ‘Cellophane’
cellulose film has a trigger-quick <zip. You’ll
enjoy your re-union with Army Club”
■i ah wrmyClui
Enjoy a re-unlon with the Major Cigarette
MAN
AC-849
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copies of J. Branch Cabell s
books: Figures of Earth, Cr £ am
of the Jest and Something About
dye- 4778. .
To buy copy of The Bulletin Re-
citer.-—4777.
Information Sought.
Can a captain demand a substi-
tute for a player injured during a
cricket match ? .
M.C.C. rule 37 states: “A substi-
tute shall be allowed to held and
run between wickets for any player
who may during the match be inca-
pacitated from illness or injury, but
for no other reason, except with the
consent of the opposing side.” There
is a note on this: “It is well to re-
member that a side which loses the
player’s services through illness or
injury brought about by the match is
entitled to a substitute, whereas in
other circumstances consent is neces-
sary, which must depend upon the
courtesy of the opposing captain
A substitute, however, is allowed
only to field for the side.
* * * *
What qualifications are necessary
before a town in N. S. Wales can be
proclaimed a city?
A city may be declared to be so
under the Crown Lands Consolida-
tion Act, 1913, by proclamation or
notification by .the Governor or a
Minister in the “Government Gazette.”
It must have had in the five years
preceding this proclamation (1) an
average population of at least 15,000
persons, and (2) an average gross in-
come of at least £20,000. It must be
an independent centre of population
and not a suburb —whether resi-
dential, industrial, commercial or
maritime—of any other municipality
or centre of population.
* * * *
Whereabouts in U.S.A. is the Corn
Belt?
That region of the United States
where Indian corn is the chief crop.
The belt, which extends westward
from Central Ohio, includes, besides
the western portion of that State,
Indiana, Illinois, lowa, the southern
third of Minnesota, eastern Nebraska,
the south-eastern comer of South
Dakota, the northern three-fourths of
Missouri and the north-eastern end
of Kansas. A deep soil, an abundant
rainfall and hot summer nights make
this region peculiarly adapted to the
culture of Indian corn. The nine
States abovenamed produce annually
about 65 per cent, of the total corn
crop of the United States.
♦ * * *
Formula for zinc-dust paint?
The quantities required to make
one gallon of the paint are: zinc
dust, 171 b.; zinc oxide, 41b.; raw
linseed oil, | gallon; terebine, f
pint. This formulation is quite satis-
factory for normal service, but it
should not be used in such places
as the interior of steel water-tanks
where unusually severe conditions
prevail.
How was the English thoroughbred
racehorse evolved ?
It is descended in a direct male
line from three horses imported to
England about 1728: the Byerly
Turk, the Darley Arabian and the
Godolphin (either an Arabian or a
Barb). Descendants of these three
horses are the Eclipse, the Matchem
and the Herod lines, which are held
to be the three outstanding families
throughout the history of English rac-
ing. Eclipse was sired by Old
Marske, grandson of the Darley
Arabian. His dam Spilleta had for
her grandsire on her own sire’s side
the Godolphin. Herod’s great-great-
grandsire was the Byerly Turk, and
the name of the Darley Arabian com-
mences the pedigree of Herod’s dam,
Cypron. The grandsire of Matchem
was the Godolphin, his dam having
the Byerly Turk at the beginning of
her pedigree. Eclipse was foaled in
1764, and was never beaten, winning
26 races. In 23 years at the stud he
sired 344 winners.
* * * *
Facts about the establishment of
Reuter’s newsagency?
The founder, Paul Julius Reuter,
was born in Cassel, Germany, in
1816. In 1849 he inaugurated a news-
collecting agency, and used pigeons
to transmit news between Germany
and French telegraph-lines at Aix-la-
Chapelle and Verviers. In 1851 he
became a naturalised British subject
and opened an office in London. In
1858 his news telegrams were first ac-
cepted by the English papers. He
appointed agents all over the world.
In 1865 a concession for a cable
under the North Sea to Cuxhaven was
granted him by the King of Han-
over, while in the same year he was
conceded a line from France to
America, working it jointly with the
Anglo - American Telegraph Cos.
Reuter, who was created a baron in
1871, died in 1899.
* * * *
How can Sturt’s desert-pea be
grown in a Sydney suburban
garden?
This native trailing plant ( Clianthus
dampierif) requires careful handling.
It needs dry conditions, and there
must be no manure or fertiliser in
the soil. Leave the plants severely
alone after they germinate. Results
are often obtained by soaking the
seeds in hot water for 10 minutes
before sowing and then burning
leaves, grass or brambles over the
bed, the ashes supplying potash.
Brief Answers.
C.McL.: The phrase probably
originates from a saying attributed
to Cromwell: “Trust in the Lord,
but keep your powder dry”
A.V.: The Mexican pyramids are
situated near Mexico City, and are
built mostly with river boulders. The
pyramid of the Sun (Tonatiuh) is
761 ft. from north to south, 725 ft.
from east to west and rises to a
height of 216 ft. The pyramid of the
Moon (Mextli) is 426 ft. by 511 ft.,
reaching 180 ft. in height W.T.P.:
Jack Johnson visited Manly (N.S.W.)
Hospital after beating Tommy Burns
at Sydney Stadium in 1908, and it
was said that he went there to have
treatment for a fractured rib. John-
son would not affirm or deny this
statement, but many ringsiders at the
championship still maintain that
Burns damaged one of his ribs with
a right-hand blow C.H.S.: Louis
Buvelot’s painting “Winter Morning”
was hung in the Victorian National
Gallery in 1869... .K.T.: In 1806 a
British force of 1600 men under Ad-
miral Sir Home Popham marched
unopposed into Buenos Aires. The
residents rallied and drove them out.
A second force under General White-
lock came in July, 1807, but was re-
pulsed and had to surrender. It re-
tired from Argentine in the same
year....J.H.K.: Write College of
Arms, Queen Victoria-street, London,
E.C.4.., .F.T.P.: Fourteen Years, by
Nettie Palmer: Limited edition of
500 numbered and signed copies.
Price £2 2s. from Angus and Robert-
son, 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney....
E. : Department Public Health,
52 Bridge-street, Sydney, will post
you on application a leaflet describ-
ing how to eradicate cockroaches
F. : Queensland Agricultural De-
partment, Brisbane, will post you
pamphlet on nut-grass control if you
write to them... .R.M.M.: Write
Kodak (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., 379 George-
street, Sydney... .R.E.H.: Write C.
T. White, Government Botanist,
Botanical Gardens, Brisbane.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS, will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor,
M.L.: Don’t know how to “dispose
of melodramas,” unless with an axe.
... .T.M.Y.: Good enough sermon in
bad enough verse... .R.W.8.: Almost
any raw beginner could do as well.
....W.G.: Defunct prospector duly
entombed... .W.H.E.: The butchery
of the cow-cocky’s rival for the hand
of the widow is an uncomfortable
and inartistic horror,.. .J.C.: In-
teresting incident, but the little you
make of it doesn’t show any literary
gift K.S.: Good enough in places,
but not good enough in enough
places... .A.E.R.: Not within can-
non-shot of being a short story.,. •
M.M.: The maxim “When you itch
poetically, scratch an editor,” is
pretty rough on the editor
R.M.A.: Told by Noah in the Ark.
' H.H.: To tell a yarn you have
to take the trouble to get some vigor
and freshness into it T.W.T.:
First verse kills it dead:
Now, mate. I’ll spin you a tale.
Gripes, I hope it’s not too stale!
’Twas on a station called Bangaroo
Where once I fought a kangaroo.
L.H.: Fear you’d be better em-
ployed cutting the grass or feeding
the hens... .P.W.: Some good ideas
floundering in a boundless swamp of
verbiage... .8.J.W.: Drastic pruning
would improve it considerably
W.J.H. and others: Once more, no
time for hieroglyphics. Write to be
perused, not deciphered... .M.C.D.:
That style grows very wearisome.
... .Bellerive: Spread your wings;
While glittering rays of
The sun doth gleam
O’er the waters of
A rippling stream.
Floating and dipping,
The graceful swan
Is a beautiful creature—
To look upon.
C.N.: Metre staggering around
after rhyme, and both looking for
ideas F.H,: You’ve coiled your
meaning up so tightly that we
couldn’t unwind it A.G.: Some
good points, needs a lot more work-
ing up... .T.J.M.: It startled the
office for a spell. Then we roped it
with a practised hand and dropped it
south where all wild and woolly
stories g0....G.5.: “Let it down
lightly.” Well, we tried, but the
weight of it got away with u 5....
E. 8.: It’s only the skeleton of a
story.... G.R.: You dive so deeply
into your mystery that you never
come up again G.F.S.: Your
story was slain in the basement and
was secretly buried in The Bulletin’s
backyard.... R.T.C.: Our grand-
father attended that alleged humorous
story’s funeral S.S.P.: You for-
got to number those 30 pages of
almost illegible scrawl, which, to
make matters worse, arrived hope-
lessly mixed B.B.; What have we
done to deserve this? —
Oh! Rosey-posey—
Sweetie-pie—
Won’t it be jolly fun
When in holy
Matrimony
You and I are joined as one.
C.E.H.: Horse yarn might pass
if you didn’t stop every few sentences
to dwell upon the enormous thirst of
the narrator.,. .8.C.P.: Boil story
for 12 hours and use liquor as a
white-ant mixture F .L.: Please
write three times as big and leave
plenty of space between the lines. Do
you want us to go blind?
A.N.W.: Seems admirably suited for
a Chinese newspaper published 2000
years ago T.M.: No lift, vigor,
inspiration J.R.R.; Six corpses,
two murders, a suicide, an explosion,
a bushfire and a kidnapping—and
still we’re not tempted N.H.D.:
There is a bottomless pit at the rear
of The Bulletin office reserved for
such atrocities W.P.: You are ob-
viously a bad judge of what this
paper requires .... F.C.C.: Neatly
worked out, but right off Bulletin
track.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
New Guinea
For 60 years, from the beginnings of
European settlement until 1942, Papua-
New Guinea’s economic mainprops were
copra and gold. The Pacific war changed
that. Today the territories’ chief source
of income is the Australian taxpayer.
Literally millions of public and private
money has been poured into Papua-New
Guinea since 1945. Including the Com-
monwealth Department of Works and
Housing (“Works and Jerks” locally) and
the defence establishments, it is costing
Australia over £5,000,000 a year to run
this country. In addition, Papuan oil-
search has cost to date, according to
one report, nearly £5,000,000. Total
annual value of territorian exports is
about £4,000,000, roughly what they were
pre-war, when both gold and copra
fetched much lower prices than they do
now. At the moment the territories are
financially a dead loss. This could be
altered quickly only by a big oil-find.
There is nothing wrong with spend-
ing public money on the development of
these territories. They need it badly
enough. In relation to their poten-
tialities, their pre-war development was
slight. Papua-New Guinea economically
was a matter of 700 coconut plantations
and a goldfield. There was nothing else
that mattered very much in this fine
country of 180,000 square miles. Some
rubber and marine shell, and a little
cocoa, rounded off an exports-list that,
without the lucky gold, was worth in the
1930’s less than a million a year.
There were only 6000 Europeans, and
only one real town, Rabaul (although
the new goldfield settlements were fast
approaching that status). The Papuan
capital of Port Moresby was still, after
nearly 60 years, a sleepy one-horse
village. Mining companies and “Big
Firms,” with many of the so-called
independent planters and traders hope-
lessly in their pockets, had the run of the
country, and development was looked at
from the viewpoint of quick profits. The
great interior of the mainland and the big
islands was, except in one locality, un-
touched. Although the territories were
self-supporting, this was due in New
Guinea’s case to the £3,000,000-a-year
Morobe goldfield, and in Papua to a
poverty-necessitated parsimony in Gov-
ernment expenditure —the Administration
there could barely find the money for its
essential services. In neither territory
was native welfare a very considerable
budget-item—in New Guinea for years
before the war there was no grant at all
for native education.
Few, therefore, would object to
money for Papua-New Guinea advance-
ment. It is the spending of the money
that is open to criticism.
After four and a half years of peace,
the territories are still in many respects
a “rag-and-bone” country, relying in
many places on palm-leaf makeshifts and
ex-Army huts for its European housing,
and on rotting war-time jetties and rust-
ing war-time pontoons for its wharves.
Its roads are still among the worst in the
Pacific. Oil-search has added to Papua’S'
mileage, but New Guinea’s 400 miles of
jeep-track have had no peace-time
lengthening to speak of. Bulominski’s
40-year-old, 150-mile German-built high-
way in New Ireland is still the longest,
and according to many, the best road in
New Guinea. That is not very impres-
sive, considering Works and Housing is
spending hundreds of thousands of
pounds in the territories every year.
Commonwealth-run (at a loss) inter-
island shipping still allows copra to rot
on plantations, and badly-needed goods
for outports to gather cobwebs in
Moresby, Rabaul and Madang.. There is
still a desperate shortage of building and
other essential materials. As to the
natives, too much attention seems to be
paid to vague schemes for their social and
political advancement, and not enough to
their physical health —for instance, since
the war there has been no systematic
territories-wide effort to round up lepers.
Papua-New Guinea’s future, if it is to
have one (apart from external interfer-
ence), will depend on the application of
a policy of “open go for none, fair go
for all.” The Government has apparently
not yet woken up to the fact that social
and political progress can only be built
on a solid economic foundation, and that
it will have to have the help of private
enterprise in the work of development,
especially if a depression makes the Aus-
tralian taxpayer disinclined to foot big
territorian bills. On the other hand, big
private enterprise must not be allowed to
have its own way with the country and
its people for the sake of a precariously
“balanced economy.” Simple co-opera-
tion and the appreciation of each other’s
needs would go a long way towards giving
the territory a first-class tropical economy.
This co-operation and control will be
especially necessary if oil is found.
In such an event, this country would
become a land of boom and hustle, the
European population would multiply
several'times over, all trsces of the old
leisured tropical life would disappear,
and social conditions wauld be improved
beyond recognition. The impact on the
natives would be severe and damaging
unless they received careful guidance.
Above all, oil would bring the labor
problem to a crisis.
Even before the war the labor position
was threatening to become a headache.
Papua-New Guinea’s mines and planta-
tions needed 50,000 “boys,” and in keep-
ing this force up to strength certain areas
had already been “recruited dry.” An
oil-strike, and the general development
following it, would demand far more
labor than local sources could supply. It
would have to be met from either Asiatic
or European sources —probably, in line
with Australian policy, the latter, not-
withstanding the troubles that would
fSbon( SA>E ,Ti
£
“Another one for Madam Koran — what'll win the Melbourne
Cup in 1950?”
follow upon such an importation of Aus-
tralian unionism as that would mean.
But even if it finds no oil or no more
big gold, and never grows another coco-
nut, Papua-New Guinea still has its
central highlands. These grassy uplands,
where nights are chilly enough for fires
and strawberries grow outsize, have been
hailed as another Kenya, but there are
enough differences to preclude white
settlement on the Kenyan scale. Kenya
had to build a coast-finking railway before
it could get its settlers, and no such rail-
way is possible in New Guinea, though a
road is. Though the highlands’ native
population is comparatively large—esti-
mates vary between a quarter and three-
quarters of a million—it isn’t big enough
to support a grand-scale plantation
economy (Kenya, with 40,000 Europeans
to 4,500,000 natives, has a chronic labor
shortage). There’s a vast difference in
size—Kenya is bigger than all Papua-
New Guinea.
Nevertheless, a very little Kenya might
grow up in the highlands, based on tea
and other crops that do well there, worked
by the gang-labor plantation system —tea
has never been grown commercially any
other way. It’s more likely, because of
considerations of labor supply, capital
outlay, and markets and the country’s
suitability to stock, that development will
follow pastoral and dairying lines. There
would be more settlers, with a ready
market for their produce in fresh-food-
starved New Guinea itself. Settlement
of the highlands, beginning with the driv-
ing of a coast-road to cut down expensive
air-freighting, ought not to be left too
long, now that we have strange and
the envious folk next door. —K. A- S.
(Manus, New Guinea).
Rail and Air
Where does “Tackline S.” (B.
23/11 / ’49) get the idea that “trains are
cheaper on short journeys only”?
My train trip of 1600 miles from
Adelaide to Perth cost under £B. That
included accommodation and excellent
meals for nearly three days, plus carriage
of my half -hundredweight of luggage.
My air trip of 1330 miles from Brisbane
to Hobart set me back £lB, which works
out close on three times as dear. That
included three or four light meals. I
had to pay over £1 excess luggage
admittedly a higher charge than normal
—but I wouldn’t have had to pay any
excess on a train.
Of course I travelled second-class on
the train. There wasn’t a second-class
on the plane, but it is “sound economics”
to pay less per mile where possible,
M.S. (Tas.).
Pakistan
In B. 18/1/’5O Eric Bradford reported
that “the Indian and Pakistan Govern-
ments are setting out to grow food for
their people instead of growing, to the
same extent as previously, jute for
export.”
Mr. Bradford is confusing the food
situation in India with that of Pakistan.
There is no shortage of food in Pakistan.
On the contrary, it has declared a wheat
surplus of half a million tons for the
year ending December 31, 1949 ; the yield
for that year being 4,103,000 tons against
3,342,000 tons in the year before. This
increase of 21.8 per cent, was reported
recently by Reuter’s correspondent in the
Bombay “Chronicle,”
Mr. Bradford’s fear of a jute shortage
in Pakistan and his deduction that there
will be less jute available for export are
without foundation. There is no shortage
of jute in Pakistan, and the Australian
1950 allocation is the full amount asked
for. Last year’s shortage of wheat-bags
and woolpacks was due in part to India’s
reluctance to pay the price for Pakistan
jute, and partly to her internal disruption,
which slowed down manufacture of raw
jute into hessian. Since the major part of
Australia’s hessian manufactures comes
from India, the shortage of bags is clearly
understandable.
Since Pakistan’s economic strength is
dependent to a large extent on export
trade, and since one of her main exports
is raw jute, it seems unlikely that she will
be illogical enough deliberately to cut
down her jute acreage.—S. M. Haq
(Information Officer, Trade Commission
for Pakistan in Australia).
Yampi Sound
Michael Sawtell’s notes on Westralia’s
Yampi Sound (B. 11/1/’5O) will be of
great interest to retired pearlers as well
as to cattlemen who have seen the
wonders, riches and wild rough beauty of
those parts. But Sawtell.did not mention
the gigantic whirlpool, one of the most
spectacular in the world.
The high tide rushes in through a
narrow mouth between high reefs and an
island which form a rough semicircle —
a deep basin in the rather shallow sur-
rounding ocean-beds. The scene at high
tide practically defies description. The
great swirl of racing waters swings round
the nearly-enclosed basin as though some
gigantic plug had been withdrawn from
the ocean-bed. The waters form a convex
spiral and the thunderous roar can h.
heard for miles.
In the great typhoon of 1906 or 1907
several of the luggers, racing for shelter
and taken by the storm, were swept within
the whirlpool and could be seen swinging
round and round these spiralling waters
like small corks until they were smashed
to matchwood and disappeared. About
300 men lost their fives in that cyclonic
outburst, and the whirlpool attained such
fierceness that it seemed as if the whole
coastline would be swung out and lost in
the whirl of thundering water.
The aborigines of that country have a
legend which says that one time some
very big abos lived where now, at low
water, the sea-floor is a twisted mass of
reef and sand-drift. These fellows lived
well with plenty of fish, yams, grasses
and good grain, but they were not
satisfied. They sang and shouted insults
at sun, moon and stars until the skies grew
tired of their abuse. One night at “big
moon” the big-feller water walked right
up and swept all their country down
where now the great basin catches the
swirling tide.
Since the catastrophe the big
corroborees of the West Kimberleys are
held with great solemnity at new and at
full moon. The chants sung on these
occasions are worthy of record. Goossens
has made Antill’s “Corroboree” known
in Europe, and, fine as it is, there are
others deserving attention, particularly as
ballets.— Janus (W.A.).
There p s some grim political humor
clinging to Yampi. It should always be
recalled, when Trades Hall hooligans
begin to howl “Pig-iron Bob,” that back
in 1929-30 Westralia’s “Labor” Adminis-
tration wanted to sell Yampi to
the Japs, and “that renegade” Joe Lyons
put a stop to it. Just what would have
happened to Westralia —and, for that
matter, the rest of Australia —if the Japs
had had a Nipponese Whyalla established
in the Kimberleys, with air-strips and
naval base ready for action, hardly bears
contemplation. Yet that is just what
“Labor,” which later had the gall to yelp
about a “Brisbane Line,” tried to run
Westralia, into. And it was quite hurt,
too, when Lyons put his foot down-
Camden Harbor (W.A.).
Commonwealth Whaling
A sad joke—and a sink for the tax-
payers’ money—is the establishing of a
“nationalised” whaling-station on the
Westralian coast round about Carnarvon,
which is on much the same latitude as
Brisbane. Back through much of last
century Yankee whalers did, it is true,
carry away many a full cargo of oil from
Westralian waters. True, also, that many
of the old-time Gropers made at least
wages out of bay whaling.
By the ’eighties, however, Yankees and
Gropers had just about skinned the hump-
backs out, while sperms had become
almost as rare as the moa. Still, a rest
of some 30 years gave the schools a
chance to build up again, so during
interim between wars the Norwegians,
who are the modern experts at the chase,
opened Port Cloates and put a couple ot
gun-equipped chasers to work. R esUlt '
were such that after a couple of seasons
the company folded up and departed.
A few years later the Americans, wn
still know a bit about the game, sent a
mother ship and chasers. They dido
return the next year. Some whales ar
still there. But it will take better tna
a 40-hour week, or even an eight-n° 1
day, to fill the oil tuns.
Back about 1912 Jack Scaddan,
crowned king of the West and U
divinity, started out to “nationalise
fish business to give the proletariat cn J
fish, something, according to Trades n
ideas, denied by the Greek fish-ring.
Hiring one of the most able skipF
on the coast, Scaddan put him A ll .
good union crew on a good little
and sent him off to bring in fish sapP' ,
that would glut the State fish-shops ope
in Perth and suburbs. Once or w.
these shops did have a show of ns
mostly they remained empty,
reason: out afloat on the Indian
the nationalised crew clung rigidly .
eight-hour day. No fishing before
fast. Then, even if the boat had wo
all day without landing a scm.
came on fish round about knock-o
—well, a day was a day, and tne
always tomorrow. .
Reading Melville’s Moby W* oce
Frank Bullen’s Cruise of the Cache - t
learns that whaling, to be success! ,
be a work-round-the-clock P roce e the
the “fish” are available. Of
old-time whalers always had tn gts-'
on a “lay”—a share of the P Dt;
which naturally was some encour
But can anyone visualise a nati a
industry of any sort making a p
Groper (W.AJ.


TALKIES
"Home of the Brave."
Here—in a close and highly perceptive
study of five American soldiers on a pre-
invasion reconnaissance of a Jap-occupied
island—is an arresting example of Holly-
wood at its best. Just how good that
best can be is easily forgotten in the
vast bulk of films that come from those
parts; when it does come, however —
about once a year, or even less frequently
—it is immediately recognisable for its
brisk and certain handling of its material
and its complete and business-like delivery
of its drama and anything else it aims
to put across. Hollywood can’t make
films like the French, the Italians or the
British ; but none of them can make
films like this; and the only thing wrong
with that situation is that the American
filmsmiths touch or approach their peak
all too rarely, whereas the others, par-
ticularly the French and Italians, seem,
on the evidence seen here, to hover
around it fairly consistently.
As far as American films are concerned,
this commentator has held the by-no-
means-original view that, as a director of
filmed drama, John Ford leads the field
easily, but, on the evidence of “Home
ot the Brave”—and “Champion,” also
showing currently in Sydney—Mark
Robson, who directed both films, is worth
comparing with Ford. Ford’s methods
were best demonstrated in “The In-
former,” “Stagecoach,” “The Long
Voyage Home” and even the rather melo-
dramatic Hurricane.” He takes, as too
tew directors do, an overall view of his
ilm, and with deliberate inactivity and
great patches of brooding silence builds
up the ominous threat of action almost to
bursting-point. Then, with the most
admirable timing—such as the arrow in
Stagecoach”—he detonates his drama,
that approach is almost infallible—
almost because the continuous action
ot Ihey Were Expendable” couldn’t be
accommodated to it very comfortably,
and because, in “The Fugitive,” the
‘rector seemed to get bogged inextricably
n one of his brooding silences—and
Koteon either from studying Ford or
under his own steam, follows it pretty
closely m “Home of the Brave.”
the main difference between the two
Sc 0 // n Ppears t 0 be that ’ whereas Ford
l -i i uses periods of inaction to
£ld °P mood and effect and to estab-
C ara f er ’ Rohson hasn’t quite the
acHnn ? ety . and falls back minor
action and incidental interest to sustain
nL la f ratlve — he gets his characters and
P , t S * em across ah right, but not with
quite the same indelible clarity as Ford
• ‘ he difference is slight and merely
fkn * Ford a s mah lead in artistry; it
direr!!!' 68 obson an e hge in speed and
shipping his narrative of
nose artistic decorations which, although
nnt' ,f e i ertain] y not unessentials, are
not altogether essential.
One other point which “Home of the
Brave” has in common with Ford’s films
—and with Ben Hecht’s productions—is
the very successful-use of less familiar,
though no less accomplished, players. The
main trouble with Hollywood’s “star”
system and tremendous boosting of indi-
viduals is that the “stars,” even if highly
competent, generally have twice the battle
they would otherwise to lose their much-
publicised features and personalities in
convincing studies of whatever parts they
are playing.
Robson has two matters to deal with
in his film—a narrative, good by any
standards, of five soldiers picking up in-
formation under the nose of the Japs ;
and a statement on racial prejudice as it
affects one of the five, a negro. He
doesn’t purport to solve the color ques-
tion—he couldn’t, anyway—and he
doesn’t fall into the common trap of de-
livering a lecture ; rather, he uses the
negro and the relations between him and
“Any old clothes , any bottles today ?”
the others to supplement his story, to
strengthen and intensify the drama by
adding hate and tragedy to fear and
courage. And, in the course of doing that
successfully, he makes a powerful state-
ment on the tolerance and understanding
needed when two races occupy the
same country, particularly as they do in
the U.S., with one of them slowly and
painfully trying to grow out of a heritage
of servitude to the other.
The film opens with the negro paralysed
from shock and an Army psychiatrist
doggedly and painstakingly searching to
root out all the contributing factors to
his illness, and the story is then related
in flashbacks as the doctor drags out
the history of the case. Despite the
dreadful frequency of stories revealed in
flashbacks by psychiatrists, it is difficult
to conceive a better method of presenting
this particular film. The story takes up
with a young major asking three men to
volunteer with him for a fairly hazardous
recce of the near-by Jap.-held island.
The major himself is a good authentic
type —young, keen and efficient —like-
wise the other three : Mingo, hard, tough
and reliable ; T.J., grumbling because the
Army doesn’t recognise the particular
ability which enables him to make 40,000
dollars a year in civvies, and Finch, the
enthusiastic youngster a little older and
a little wiser than he might have been
without the war. With natural reluctance,
and none of the strong, silent heroics
Hollywood usually attributes to such
moments, the three agree to go. The re-
maining member of the party has to be
a surveyor and the volunteer who turns up
from a technical unit is the negro,
Mossy, who also turns out to be an old’
schooldays friend of Finch (the one inci-
dent where the film leans on coinci-
dence).
Mossy’s troubles—his sensitiveness and
his inferiority complex—stem, as the film
shows, from back in his youth when he
had to take the sneers and rebuffs from
the white youngsters with whom he went
to school. The same problems confront
him with the other members of the party
—Finch is openly delighted, the major
doubtful about the effect on the others,
Mingo ready to accept him for whatever
he does, while T.J. is frankly scornful and
contemptuous—and he accepts all of
them with defensive reserve. On the
island, where the ominous silence is
broken only by the harsh call of birds,
the same relationship is maintained be-
tween the men while they work fast and
efficiently collecting their information
until T.J.’s continual needling and sneer-
ing at the negro sets off the action. Finch
and T.J. come to blows over Mossy;
Mingo is wounded by a Jap. sniper; in
a second of hot anxiety Finch calls Mossy
“a dirty nigger” ; Finch is wounded, cap-
tured and tortured while the others
forcibly restrain Mossy from rushing into
the jungle after him ; as the others are
getting away from the island to the wait-
ing P.T. boat Mossy finds Finch’s dying
and mutilated body and cradles him in
his arms, crying over him as he dies in
one of the most moving scenes this com-
mentator has witnessed —a scene which
only a negro, with the natural emotional
expressiveness of his race, could carry
off convincingly and which is her© carried
off to perfection.
It is the mounting impact of shock
upon shock that leaves Mossy paralysed,
particularly the feeling of guilt which
hounds him after he felt a glad spasm of
relief when Finch was shot. The psy-
chiatrist sorts this out for him accurately
—as the natural relief of every soldier
who doesn’t cop the bullet that stops
someone else —as well as his tangled
mixture of feelings of shame, antagonism
and inferiority and finally shocks him
back on to his feet. How accurate that
part of the film is probably only a psy-
chiatrist could say, but it certainly makes
up into compelling drama.
James Edwards, the young negro who
plays Mossy, turns in an extraordinarily
fine performance, backed, no doubt, by
as much genuine feeling as by histrionic
ability. He gives the character the dignity
and strength, and the sensitivity and
weakness of an ordinary man, which
is precisely what the film requires
both for its drama and for what it has
to say on the color problem. It can’t
answer that problem, but what it says—
and what is probably the most anyone
can say—-is that the negro has climbed
from the jungle and slavery to a civilised
human being with ordinary human feel-
ings and human rights. And it says that
with remarkable force and clarity.
,The others give sound, sustained per-
formances Frank Lovejoy, as Mingo,
who finishes minus an arm but with a
sound valuation of Mossy ; Lloyd Bridges
as Finch ; Douglas Dick as the major ;
Steve Brodie as T.J., who, consistently,
makes his exit still holding the same views
as he came in with ; and Jeff Corey as the
tired, urgent doctor, working against
time, conditions and the results of war.
Along with the excellent acting and direct-
ing goes some topnotch photography,
particularly where the camera explores
and catches the overhanging menace of
the jungle; or suggests the Japanese
hidden, waiting and watching as the
Americans crawl through the long grass ;
or conveys the awful isolation of the
men as the P.T. boat which delivers them
to the island wheels and surges away into
the darkness.
The film, released at Sydney Esquire
by United Artists, was written by
Carl Foreman (from a play by
Arthur Laurents) and produced by Stanley
Kramer for Screen Plays Corporation.
The same combination—Kramer, Robson
and Foreman —turned out “Champion,”
and one can only hope that they main-
tain the standard they have set.
A 1 Jolson is a case of what can happen
when a man won’t lie down. He is cur-
rently on tap over the radio, and sells
sheet-music and records as well as Crosby
or Sinatra. It has been that way for
over 12 months, much .to the delight of
young folk, who feel they’ve discovered
him. Well into his sixties, he has for the
second time in his life a popularity few
entertainers can achieve once. The film
that was responsible for his phenomenal
second innings, “The Jolson Story,” and
its successor, “Jolson Sings Again,” which
appears to be enjoying a marathon run
at Sydney State, were so well received by
the folk who pay the money that, provided
his voice was there to back them up,
theatre-managers could probably show
lantern-slides and do good business. In
the first film, with remarkable contor-
tions, Larry Parks played Jolson’s chassis,
and the singer’s voice, expertly synchro-
nised, was fed into the sound-track and
made the creation live. The story was a
slight, bewhiskered, very familiar in-
dividual, but the power and effect of the
invisible man did remarkable things.
“Jolson Sings Again” has even less of a
plot—in fact, it tells how they went about
making the other film—but it has- even
more of his songs in it, which seems to
have the effect of blinding the audience
to the weak spots, suddenly bringing a
lump to its collective throat and melting
it just as quickly.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 55
Across.
young animal in the
<f l} * state of de facto marriage.
s—Rene and a big bird. (3)
~Au h s e trali? e^ St rational South
pWk- tra . birds five. (6)
f brick ' Carrier with two
!tfS ofbS eB S) vepoles ' (8)
- Amb s in town. (5 y
J mckTp) ab ° Ut one making a
!LSr d by a polite fellow. (3)
of Shiloh. (3)
by Tvhirh eft b lT e of tbe straps
18—GenTiinp b Veh ! cle ls drawn. (5)
in
24 Enisram Gilbertian feminist. (3)
25 Lubricate & kltten s pop - 0)
l 50 nC (S) re^adve puts one about
b e drunk. (3)
Inin 8 ? bald like a hero of the
in ‘ ndlan Mutiny. (8)
Ph[llin Xa R Pk i the oUtlet of Port
ss&tV ,o duck a Greek
(cryptic type.)
31 — Bad French parent approaching
50. (3)
32 — This rolling-stock kicks the
bucket before the Spanish coach.
(6, 5)
Down.
1— Musical (?) instrument suggests
how you might catch fish in
bulk. (8)
2 She has taken the veil. (3)
3 Latin aunt’s bus (anagram). (13)
4 What meows to Alexander with
a muscular twitch that is not
defective in the last foot? (11)
5 Crazy Baltic catalogue of a song-
writer. (11)
6 Tests the votes that carry motions
at donkey’s meetings. (6)
9—Eight stone the barbarian doctor
and Edward West and eight
follow them. (13)
11 —The ghost of a man killed by a
steamroller used by a bricklayer?
(7-5)
13—Evidence of a wound over a
moustache, but you see he is a
novel by Sabatini. (11)
19 —Sweet and heavenly body swal-
lows a vehicle. (8)
23 —Acquired a pig in New York. (6)
30 —Girl knows something about
Beethoven’s Seventh Symphony.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. S 4.


“THE UNIT OF ENERGY”
i
>
> BATTERIES
REIGN SUPREME
lill
ma*
N^:!>SsSbs?3^s^i
/
l|;l
liPfi
m
■••jii
t?;&:V : : : S!‘:r:? x S
■
ea*
■•AI
; : :*i
•-■-’■.■
Wm
» S
ssw*
t:vV
mm
Mfuft iT3
a«s
m&
life?:
>.wX*s
■' ' 1
.
AS USED BY N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
AND SUPPLIED EXCLUSIVELY
TO THE
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
—FOR CARS AND TRUCKS—
FOR
15th CONSECUTIVE YEAR.
Equipment on Radiola for
17 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH.
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria :
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE*
Western Australia:
NICHOLSONS, LIMITED,
Barrack Street, Perth; 3 Adelaide Street,
Fremantle; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON;
TASMANIAN RUBBER CO., LTD., HOBART.
New Zealand :
BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS, LTD,
436 Broadway, Newmarket, AUCKLAND, S.E.l*
New Caledonia:
HAGEN FRERES, NOUMEA.
Fiji:
ELTRON ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO*
SUVA.
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulbum Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA 6188 (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones; B 6565, B 4448
