

The Bulletin
"The Bulletin/’ Vol. 71—No. 3665
Wednesday, May 10, 1950
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Jeppelts
(By courtesy of Irish Tourist Association.)
IRISHMEN PROUDLY RECALL JERPOINT'S ANCIENT HISTORY
Thomastowp, in County Kilkenny, Eire, is Jerpoint Abbev,
one of the oldest Cistercian monasteries in Ireland. It was
founded in 1158 by Donough MacGillapatrick, Lord of Ossory, and
‘its first abbot was Felix O’Dullany, founder of St. Canice’s
Cathedral at Kilkenny.
The choir and transepts are in the Irish Romanesque style of
architecture; they contain tombs of the fifteenth and sixteenth
centuries and also the thirteenth-century tomb of Bishop O’Dullany.
The south side of the nave has vanished, but the north side still
stands and is separated from the aisle by a row of six wide, pointed
arches on low piers. The triple west window and the clerestory
windows are round-headed ; the cloisters date from the thirteenth
century. The entrance to the church was gained by a fortified porch
on the north side of the nave.
The battlemented tower which was rebuilt in the fifteenth
century bears a striking resemblance to the Italian style of
architecture.
At the time of the Dissolution in 1540, the lands of Jerpoint
Abbey passed to the Ormonde family. The original high altar of
Jerpoint Abbey may be seen in a modern church in Thomastown.
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OFSEPPELT


Ttor« WritW<J
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. 1 ’
My Name ,
My Address
S.B. 250 AGE...
The Red Page
A BELLERIVE BOOK.
After 42 years of singularly dogged
contributing to “Answers to Correspon-
dents” The Bulletin’s famous ’Bel-
lerive” is at last, in his 80th year, to have
the pleasure of seeing his poetry in book
form. . . ~ .
His patron is Mr. J. K. Moir, of Mel-
bourne’s Bread and Cheese Club. Mr.
Moir, an enthusiastic supporter of Aus-
tralian letters and a generous friend to
many Australian writers, has been an
ardent “Bellerive” admirer ever since he
began reading The Bulletin.
Recently Mr. Moir, in company with
balladist Ted Harrington, visited “Bel-
lerive” at the poet’s North Melbourne
home, and as a result of that meeting
he will publish in the near future a limited
edition of the poet’s best writings.
“Bellerive,” whose real name is Joseph
Tischler, was born in Dunedin (N.Z.),
where his father, whom he once described
as “a dignified old man with a powerful
frame,” was a builder. When his father
died “Bellerive” described him in a
moving poem:
’Twas on the tenth of August
At the setting of the sun,
When my father dear expired
At the age of ninety-one.
His mother was a talented musician,
who, like Henry Lawson’s mother, en-
couraged the son to write. Said “Bel-
lerive” in his “Recollections of My
Beloved Mother”:
Fondly Mother dear predicted,
When my gift was but a spark,
From a flicker ’twould flasheth,
Like a searchlight in the dark.
“Bellerive” was brought to Melbourne
when a baby and remembers nothing of
his native land. Sent to a public school,
he was slow at learning, but was fond
of poetry. His favorite poet was Mrs.
Felicia Hemans, who wrote “Casablanca”
—“The boy stood on the burning deck”
poem. He was happy enough at school,
although he once wrote;
Piteously I wept and
Wriggled with pain
When the master inflicted
Upon me the cane.
As a child his favorite haunt was the
Melbourne Cemetery, which he visited to
witness the burials and to read the in-
scriptions on headstones. Death and
funerals have always had a compelling
fascination for “Bellerive.” His earliest
Bulletin contribution, for instance, pub-
lished on June 4, 1908, under the nom-
de-plume of “The Wasp,” Was entitled
“Found Dead in the Street”:
An unfortunate woman was
Found dead in the street
By an officer of Justice
While on early-morn beat.
Conveyed to the morgue
For a doleful inquest,
From the wages of sin
Her soul was at rest.
After the coroner’s verdict
The remains of the Dead
Was coffined for a pauper’s
marrow burial bed.
The Tischlers were a musical lot. His
sisters were musicians and dancers, and
“Bellerive” was in the show business him-
self :
When speaking plays were the topic and
rage
Among a batch of supers I appeared on
the stage.
During Alfred Dampier and George
Rignold’s reign
A place with the boys I did nightly retain.
In Bland Holt’s time, at the popular old
Royal,
As a extra stagehand I found plenty of toil.
He looked after elephants, was a circus
clown and a strolling minstrel, perform-
ing on street-corners and in the 3d. bars
in the slums.
As a minstrel tramp dreary miles I did
wend
And my accordion did prove a valuable
friend.
As an itinerant musician “Bellerive”
saw many a donnybrook around the pubs.
Some ended fatally:
During a drunken brawl
His skull was fractured
By an heavy fall.
He was conveyed to the hospital
Where alas he Died
And in the doleful morgue
He was Identified.
For a time “Bellerive” worked in a jam
factory, which explains his extraordinary
fondness for jam-tins:
Made by machinery for factory jam
Label’ed and packed for sale
Sold by grocers for household use
Such is the jam-tin’s tale.
At a circus show some years ago
In a well-known country town
Music was played on an old jam-tin
By a clever eccentric clown.
He carried his swag throughout the
Victorian bush, which was then,
apparently, partly populated by deranged
vagrants roaming the countryside with
homicidal intent. “Bellerive” has referred
to such pleasant fellows almost affection-
ately as “eccentric tramps’*:
In a countryside shack
A notorious scamp
Planned a diabolical deed
With an eccentric Tramp.
You brain him suggested
The cruel ruffian Bold
And we’ll equally divide
The glittering gold;
Despatch him he resumed
To-night in he’s sleep
And we’ll hurl he’s body
Into the creek deep;
O’erpowered and stunned
Was the poor miner Ned
And beaten and bruised
Until he was Dead.
His adventures while on the track were
varied, but none was as exciting as his
encounter with a bull:
Charged by a bull
With fierce bowed head
For a solitary tree
In terror I sped
When aloft among
The branches high,
I realised I was
Too young to die.
I watched the bull
Make off in a rage—
Foiled like a villian
Upon the stage.
Back in Melbourne he traded in second-
hand goods, but went broke after an
BELLERIVE.
orgy of buying which included a pile of
music, a box of brumray rings, a looking-
glass and razor, cracked china cups and
saucers, a cask of rusty nails, an accor-
dion without keys and two old garden
swings.
He “went to the wall, but restrained
to fret,” and took up woodchopping. He
also earned a few shillings with his
accordion, playing at picnics and parties
patronised by larrikins. They were a
very tough crowd, but “Bellerive,” like
C. J. Dennis and Louis Stone, believed
that the larrikin had a heart of gold. “A
Sensitive Larrikin” begins:
“Break up the bloomin’ party, lads,”
Exclaimed the pride of the push, Long Ned.
“I’ve just been told by some old bloke
A poor woman next door lies dead.”
Scraping up enough money to pay his
fare to Tasmania, “Bellerive” earned a
living selling shell necklaces around the
Hobart waterfront to tourists. He was
enchanted by the beauty of Mount Wel-
lington, the Cascades, Fern Tree Bower
and Sandy Bay. For a while he forgot
the grim life he had spent in Melbourne,
but summer passed all too quickly, the
tourist trade declined, and shell necklaces
were a drug on the market. He Went to
Launceston, but there, to his “sorrow
and Dismay” he was left “stranded and
Homeless.” He had failed to earn a
living making swings for birdcages, and
the police did not approve of his street-
busking :
Half-starved and tattered I wandered the
streets, jeered at by men, women and
children and shadowed by the police, whom
seemed to regard a poor stranded half-
starved human Being as a wild beast at
large. They gave me twenty-four hours to
Quit the city, and to evade ’em, 1 crept
away to the outskirts of the town. And
during my piteous experience 1 spent one
night out in the cold on the Banks of the
Tamar River, without as Much as a bag
to cover my limbs. As God’s my witness,
towards the close of the second week of
my sufferings, a melb. showman took
pathetic compassion on Me and shipped
me Back to Vic. or maybe I’d perished
From want and exposure like an houseless
Dog.
Back in Melbourne he became the pro-
I>rietor of a small fancy-goods stall in
he Victoria Markets.
Today “Bellerive” lives with his wife—
‘my greatest living friend,” he calls her
—in a freshly-painted house in an old
errace in North Melbourne. The parlor
s crammed with furniture and old-
ashioned bric-a-brac. There are objects
n glass-cases, a portrait of Lord Byron,
photographs of sailing-ships,, racehorses
md of five soldier nephews killed in
World War I. There is also an original
painting of Carbine and a framed Digger’s
lat. He entertains his guests with “The
Last Rose of Summer” played on a con-
certina. He plays well, and, if asked,
will give a demonstration of the chimes,
whirling his instrument from side to side
as he plays.
Old photographs show him as a spruce
young man looking' very sprightly in a
bowler hat. Despite his 80 years he is
very cheerful, although a bit shaky on
his pins. There is something of the old
windjammer sailorman about him, and
the number of photographs of ships on
the walls suggests that he had once sailed
the seven seas, but although he loves “the
briny deep,” as he calls it, his accjuaint-
ance with the sea is confined to excur-
sions on Port Phillip Bay and his one
visit to Tasmania- He is interested in
shipwrecks. These marine disasters pro-
vided him with a lot of copy during the
early years of his literary career. Ship-
wrecks meant drownings, swimmers being
torn to pieces by sharks, survivors dying
of thirst and sailors being eaten by their
mates. His sea verse, however, is not
exclusively concerned with tragedy. He
has written some delightful comedies, as
witness “Rolling on the Straights”:
The active steward balanced
With a pile of shining plates
When the ship did start a rolling,
A rolling in the straights;
A shark appeared above the water
When a woman on the Deck
Wrung her hands with horror,
There was going to be a wreck;
A stoutish man did growleth
About the tossing of the sea,
Said the steward have a soda
And don’t throw up to me;
Heedless of sick passengers
He mingled with his mates
As the gallant ship was rolling,
Rolling on the straights.
Modern poets are not earthy—or salty
—enough for “Bellerive,” who always
turns to the old poets for solace and who
claims that he writes at least one poem
a night “while the missus washes up.”
“Poetry,” he once confided, “pursues me
like my own shadow”;
I’d sit up all hours of the night, during
which I’d conjure up in imagination, stirring
and tragic incidents. 1 recognised I
possessed a literary gift of some kind
Having read in The Bulletin stray verses
by the Renowned Henry Lawson, Paterson.
And Lindsay Gordon, 1 recognised t’wouid
be folly and waste of time on my part to
follow on the same trail as such clever
writer’s of knowledge and Bush experience,
and my ambition was to try and break new
literary ground. $
As early as 1909 he declared:
1 build no castles in the air—
I’ll yet be a literary star.
In the stilly nights, 1 endeavor to write
Of things just as they are.
He certainly became a “literary star.”
Arthur Adams wrote him up at length on
the Red Page in 1912. And he certainly
wrote of things as they are. “The
Brighton Tragedy,” for example:
After having despatched his
Two children and wife,
A Demented Husband destroyed
His own wretched life.
An horrid spectacle greeted-
The police officer's sight
When they entered the house —
After the dawn of daylight,
Battered and unrecognisable—
The bodies of the Dead,
Were huddled together in
A double-bed,
While the assassin lie stretched
Near the bedroom door,
With a deep gash in his throat—
And bespattered with gore.
The majority of the characters in
“Bellerive’s” early poems ended up in
Melbourne’s City Morgue—an edifice
more important to “Bellerive ’ in those
days than any of the architectural show-
places of the southern capital:
Upon slabs the pallid corpse lie—
Neath the glare of the flickering light,
A gruesome and sickening spectacle
Is the City Morgue by night.
And as “Bellerive” sagely remarked in
reference to the morgue caretaker:
A man accustomed to a cheerful life
Could never hold such a situation.
But those who only know “Bellerive”
for his gory verse should the robust
and adventurous humor of “An Aged
Man’s Hideous Escapade at the Victorian
Home for the Aged and Poor”;
A veteran sailor climbed up
On the garbled roof of the Home,
And along the parapets and tiles
Like a cat did roam.
The warders endeavored to capture
The daring climber bold,
Clad only in his nightshirt—
Upon the roof in the cold.
Letting forth a loud yell, like
A wild animal in pain,
The eccentric old joker
Scrambled down again.
And one should not .
note often revealed in his nature n‘ dyllic
Weary, dreary, ugly snail, eins;
Creeping on your slimy trail-
Constructed with a V V
In the mud and damp level
The butterfly is bright and eav
The honey-bee hums on Us wav-
Poets have no time for thee Y ’
Wenting Sh
peSecflttle ge ra t : e - Same 4
I hey hop o’er your plate
And go as you please,
little white jumpers
Whom live in old cheese
Some people loathe ’em.'
And others don’t care ’
y., th fy swallow a mouthful
The truth I declare.
They hop, twist and leap
Ana go as you please,
Ihe jumpers, white jumpers
Whom live m old cheese.
I hat one, particularly, should appeal to
Mr Moir, who is Knight Grand Cheew
ot the Bread and Cheese Club. S
W.E. FITZ HENRY.
Australians Down South.
Dear Red Page,—l was amazed on
opening The Bulletin to see my name
1 had thought that such a thing was
beyond hope, and since the occasion was
to my credit in so far as I was doinc
something useful, it will undoubtedly also
amaze my friends.
1 refer to your review of Arthur
Scholes’s Fourteen Men (R.P. 19/4/’5O),
Yes, I was the geologist on the
expedition to Heard Island, and I
was pleased to note that you were
able to read between the lines
and deduce the “high-class bungling”
which took place. I consider that Art—
to the other 13—showed almost supef-
human self-control in his narrative be-
cause not only was the bungling “high-
class,” it was absolutely unbelievable, and
combined with the crass stupidity, favorit-
ism unashamed and other sundry goings-
on since the return of the exhibition (our
term) it bids fair to stand as an all-time
world-wide record for even a Govern-
ment department.
I kept a diary, covering the activities
of every day from Australia to Australia.
You might possibly be interested in a
few excerpts — the days are numbered con-
secutively, from January 1, 1948:
Monday 26. v
We opened the books today, four copies
of Foreign Policy of Australia by H. V.
lEvatt, two copies of What the Negro
Wants by Duncan, two books on golf and
a few others of equal severity. We wished
Dr. Evatt was here
Thursday 106.
Making shift to make a better tent, we
have lost two of these things and have
three left, but they are useless. After great
search for suitable material—burlap, calico,
36-oz. canvas, eventually found some ngnt
12-oz. Birkmyres cloth. We, i.e., the three
of us, drew up a design and spent the nay
cutting out. A good day to be mside,
anyway, snow all day, wind about 6U m.p.
Friday 107. Tt
Spent the day sewing canvas, u '
obvious that this tent .is going to “e a
long time. Cut Bob’s hair, and after
sang practically the w h°le musica
of the “Desert Song” with Norm Jones.
"succeeded Vn* finishing the tent gg---
The forte of today was Shorty smging as
follows: “On the road toMandatay,
where the flying-fishes-flymg-fishes fly ng_
fishes - flying-fishes - the
fishes play—fishes play fishes p y
the needle!” We have ™ needles for m^
. gramophone, one of the all-too V
which didn’t turn up. We make
up out of bits of wood. ? motive
1 can’t help feeling that Arts nat _ f act
suffers considerably because f act not
that.he never went into the field, froffl
more than about a mile an e diary:
the base. Here’s some more of the diary
Monday 117. • ht an d so did
The wind came up last night, an became
the weather. Early this morn g {he cainp
apparent that we had tog 81 .* W here?’
or be blown off—no kidding. had
was the question. We . down to
a look at the avalanche gQolie
the west coast of Laurens, our
over and it came hurtling bacx
heads. • i w as absolute
The track back to camp * Y e was to
certain death, the only < ier an d follow it
hike out to the Jacka Glacier an and
to the sea. We made the t paC ked
some other gear.into a d
everything on it. e ach
myself on a sepaiate of’us, but out
and George tied to each of u stcp s, dig
front leading, we set off. Firm snoW too
your axe in and fl°P , fifteen, step -
breathless to ta ' k ’for all time,
This settles hand-sledging
is definitely not man s worK. : s dreadfu’q
We worked like mules; it * “ alcU latcd
haM work,
to kill a man fast. w j| nc i wa s on:
to do this again. ?.“ e tjt several1 tim
side, and about a nule out it high Bft.
blew the sledge (3ft. _ t waS a U w
long) over and over, so sticking
could do to holdlit »•
axes m and jabbing
wind was ovei half-mile and g 0 f a
We made another hair m* of & blt oim
the lee —what there w
(i Continued on P a S e 35


m
Venetian Blinds
to order
In Seven Weeks
Made in our own workrooms o£ selected Canadian Cedar laths and best quality tapes and cords, they
can be painted any colour you desire. If you live in the Metropolitan area our representatives will call,
and measure your windows. We will then forward quotations. If sending in your sizes, be sure to
measure with a wood or metal rule, as cotton tape measures tend to stretch. Blinds will be delivered
to your home only seven weeks after date of acceptance of quotation! Now is the time to order, be early.
VvjmdahJFUe
Uhl
'
I
Rod
M
Chp
Hods
TSottiim Haider
*THUTH
IN ADVERTISING”
Anthony Horderns’
, *■ ■ ■ . / ‘ - ■, . , ■
X-L-ALL Blinds. Pacific pine timber laths with rustless chains for durability,
freedom of rolling. Green or Brown, other colours on request. Close
spaced or louvered finish as illustrated. Close type, 4ft. x 4ft. 6in., £5/0/6;
6ft. x 6ft., £B/17/3; 10ft. x 6ft., £l4/5/6; 12ft. x 10ft., £25/5/9. Louvered,
4ft. x 4ft. 6in., £5/15/9; 6ft. x 6ft., £lO/4/6; 10ft. x 6ft., £l6/10/3;
12ft. x 10ft., £26/2/3. Holdfast Stays, priced at 36/3 per set extra.
Ask for detailed price list.
i
No. 6 No. 7
door, 2ft. 6m. x 6£t. 6in., 35/9; 2ft. Sin.
* 6ft - B in., 36/6; 2ft. 10in. x 6ft. 10m., 37/9
door, 2ft. 6in x 6ft. 6in., 31 /9; 2ft. Sin.
ft- Sin., 32/6; 2ft. lOin. x 6£t. 10in., 33/9
No. 5 No. 4
No. 5 door, 2ft. 6in.x6ft. 6in.,40/-; 2ft. Sin.
x 6ft. Sin., 40/9; 2ft. lOin: x 6ft. 10in., 427-
No. 4 door, 2ft. 6in. x 6ft. 6in.,40/-; 2ft. Sin.
x 6ft. Sin., 40/9; 2ft. lOin. x 6ft. 10in., 42/-
No. 13 No. 11
No. 13 door, 2ft. 6in.x6ft. 6in.,45/9; 2ft. 8in.
x 6ft. 8in., 46/6; 2ft. lOin. x 6ft. 10in., 47/9
No. 11 door, 2ft. 6in. x6ft. Gin.,45/9; 2ft. 8in.
x 6ft.,8in., 46/6; 2ft. lOin. x 6ft. lOin., 47/9
All prices are for Galvanised Wire; Bronze Wire 10/- extra each door; fittings extra.
HORDERNS’ WIRE DOORS AND BUNDS-THIRD FLOOR-PHONE M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT); BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The WIND and the WATER
By
COLIN
THIELE
BRUNO was in the horse-stable
killing the batch of grey kittens
while the old mother-cat was out
foraging. The blowflies sang
warmly in the corner, and the rich stench
of dung and trodden hay filled his
nostrils. Outside, beyond the straw fowl-
houses and the barn, he could see the
wheat-paddocks where the hot yellow
ridges quivered with mirage, arching and
rippling like long, vaporous caterpillars.
When he heard the lazy click-clock of
old Stasinoski’s horse coming down the
track from the road, Bruno left the dead
kittens lying stretched out in a row and
peered over the broken stable ; gate. The
horse stumbled along into the yard and
stopped even before old Stas, called
“Whoa,” though he did it loudly three
times just to make it sound right. Then
the horse drooped its head and swished
its buttocks with its tail.
“ ’Day, Bruno,” said Mr. Stas. “Dad
in?”
Bruno swung himself over the gate and
came up towards the house. The ground
was hot under his bare feet.
“Yeah, he’s just finishin’ dinner.”
The screen-door of the kitchen met
the frame angularly, and the gauze
bulged away into a prickly hole so that
the flies inside seemed to have a lot of
trouble finding their way out again.
Bruno flicked open the door with his big
toe. Dad, Mum and the other kids were
still sitting at the table.
“I killed ’em, all but the black spotty
one,” he said. “And Mr. Stas, is ’ere and
’e wants to see Dad.”
Dad wiped the tomato-sauce from his
moustache with the back of his hand.
“What’s ’e want, this time o’ day—
an’ in the middle o’ harvestin’?”
“ ’E didn’t say.”
DAD got up and went out to speak to
Mr. Stas. Bruno'took a slice of fritz
from the table and followed him. Mr.
Stas, came straight to the point.
“Y’r noo windmill’s come,” he said.
“Stationmaster asked me to let y’ know.
Wants y’ to come in an’ fetch it.”
“Silly devil,” said Dad, “Don’t ’e know
I’m in the middle o’ harvestin’?”
“No matter,” said Mr. Stas. “Y’ got
to take delivery. Regelations.”
“Some jokers got nothin’ to do but sit
their big brasses on leather seats an’ give
orders,” Dad said. “Anyway, it’s about
time it come.”
“You’ll ’ave to take a couple o’ days
off from harvestin’ an’ put the noo mill
up,” said Mr. Stas. “I’ll give y’ a ’and.
I know about windmills an’ that.”
Bruno helped Dad harness up the
wagon. All the kids wanted to come, but
Dad shooed them off —all except Bruno
and Herb. They were big lads, he said,
and could help.
Bruno was happy as the wagon jolted
up the road towards the railway siding.
He liked to stand on the tray, arms
akimbo like a man, without losing his
balance, letting his knees take the shock
of the pot-holes and feeling the flesh
quiver on his calves and thighs. Ha
veiled his disappointment when they
topped the rise and saw that there was
no train' in at the siding. Still, there was
a promising mushroom of smoke over
the hills in the east, and if the loading
were delayed a bit they might fluke the
ecstasy of seeing a long goods come
snuffling up through the cutting.
D UT the loading didn’t take long.
. The crane that usually stood by the
side of the track pointing at the sky like
a stiff arm jolted restlessly. It reminded
Bruno of the puppets in the old Swiss
clock on the dining-room mantelpiece.
It jerked jauntily from side to side,
nodded its head slowly several times, and
finally pulled a tapering steel derrick like
a giant’s concertina out of the railway
truck and deposited it in the wagon.
“That’ll be the tower,” said Dad
authoritatively.
Next, the nodding line fished out the
fan-wheel and cogs, then some long steel
rods an’d water-piping, a roll of guy-wire,
and a box marked with mysterious black
letters which Bruno didn’t understand.
He tried to find out, but Dad wouldn’t
say. Bruno wondered whether he really
knew; sometimes Dad didn’t seem to
know much about things.
When the loading was finished the
wagon was hidden in a maze of steel bars
bristling out over the sides and the back,
or pointing up at the sky. The station-
master said they’d have to tie a rag on the
back to give a warning on the road. That
was the law. So Dad, Herb and Bruno all
turned out their pants pockets, and Bruno
found a khaki hanky. The stationmaster
didn’t think anyone would see that in the
dust, but they would be within the law,
which was all that mattered. So off they
went up the road again, like a daddy-long-
legs spider in his web, Herb and Bruno
swinging on the cross-struts like trapped
flies, and Dad, a big blowfly, enmeshed
cleverly in the front.
I T was only half-past three when they
1 got back, and Dad drove straight down
to the well.
“We’ll get ’er all ready today,” he said,
“and pull ’er up tomorrer.”
Mr, Stas, was waiting at the well.
“Pity it’s so darn far from yT ’ouse,”
he said. “Must be ruddy half-a-mile.”
“ ’Ad to ’ave ’er ’ere,” Dad answered
dryly. He didn’t go much on old Stas,
and his criticisms.
“Why?” asked Stas.
“’Cos this is where the bloody water
is!”
“Aint there none nearer the ’ouse?”
“Nuh! Not this much! ”
“Oo said?”
“Old Bert Lipchinski. ’E done the
divinin’. Found two underground rivers
meetin’ ’ere. Rod nearly jumped out o’
’is ’ands. Bent real low towards the
ground just ’ere. Seen it myself.” ’
Dad scratched his ear reminiscently,
having vindicated the position of the well.
Old Stas, was silenced momentarily by
weight of evidence.
“ ’Ow much water y’ got in ’er?” he
said at length,
“Three-feet. But you can’t drain ’er!
Pump all day, makes no difference. The
water’s movin’ along underground, that’s
why . . , two rivers.”
Bruno helped with the unloading.
They had to use a couple of lifting-jacks
and an endless chain to get the,tower off.
Dad grumbled at the weight; it was
enough to give a man the rupture, he said.
Someone ought to write the company a
letter and tell them a thing or two about
windmill-making. Ought to be only half
this weight.
Bruno barked his bare shin on one of
the sharp iron fans, and the blood made a
track down to his ankle through the dust.
If he put his finger across the track the
blood took different courses, like the
delta of the river in the seventh-grade
geography book, until it caked hard.
Then he washed it oft in the cattle trough.
DAD and Mr v Stas, started to dig four
holes for the legs of the tower, and
Bruno had to help with the measuring so
that they would fit exactly when the
tower was pulled up into position. He had
to hold the tape measure for Dad. What
was the use of all the kids going to school
for years. Dad said, if they couldn’t use
their education now and again for
measuring things and reckoning sums.
Bruno hoped very much that everything
would fit, because Dad wore heavy boots,
and didn’t only use them for walking.
While the men were digging the holes
he nosed around finding out about things.
The well-cover was off, so he lay down on
his belly and looked over the edge. He
felt a bit sick because it seemed, as if-his
body wanted to slide forwards and pitch
down into the long black funnel that
ended queerly in nothing. He half-ex-
pected a monstrous funnel-web spider to
come crawling up out of the darkness,
scrabbling against the sides to get a grip
with its hairy legs. He shuddered. Just
a few feet down from the rim he could
see three swallows’ nests —little cups of
mud clinging precariously to the sheer
sides. He looked right down into them,
but they were empty. He wondered if
any poor fledglings had toppled out
before they could fly, and plunged down
into the narrowing blackness. With an
effort he pushed himself back from the
edge, and went over to the men again.
“ ’Ow are y’ goin’ to pull ’er up?” Mr.
Stas, was asking.
“With a ’orse an’ a couple o’ guy-
wires,” said Dad. “The first lift’ll be
tough, but after that the legs’ll just slip
into the ’oles and she’ll swing up on ’er
own. Then'we’ll anchor ’er'with cement.”
“D’y’ know what?” said Mr. Stas,
weightily.
“What?” asked Dad.
“¥’ ought to get a loan o’ Arbiston’s
tractor.”
“What for?”
“For pullin’ ’er up with.”
“Garnsaid Dad. “I don’t want that
dam fire-toaster snortin’ near my crops.
What’s wrong with ’orses?”
“Tractors is more accurate,” said Mr.
Stas. “Y’ can control ’em to an inch.”
“Yeah,” said Dad dryly. “Young
Arbiston took ’is three fingers clean off at
the first joint with them caterpillar
tracks ; real neat it was.”
THE next morning was crowded with
excitement. Even Mum had to come
down to help. Dad said she could lead
the horse when it pulled up the tower.
The kids were running a bit wild, and
Mum had her hands full minding Nugget
and trying to stop the baby from crawl-
ing into the well. Dad was a bit touchy,
too. He had a few sharp words with Mr.
Stas, about the way the guy-wires ought
to be fixed, and the length of rope to give
Nugget. Mr. Stas, reckoned the longer
the rope the easier the lift, but Dad said
the weight of the tower was the same
whether the rope was long, short or
middling; so what the devil did it
matter?
Bruno got tired of waiting for them
and started to shy stones at the plovers
for trying to fool him with their broken-
wing trick. The sunlight was still coming
low over the hills in long, slanting sheets,
like gold, and a magpie suddenly cut
through it from high up, tilting its wings
and slipping down sideways into the
scrub on the hill. Bruno felt glad and
strong. He held out his arms and raced
off, bending from side to side and making
sharp turns.
“Look, I’m flying,” he said. “I’m a
magpie.”
The other kids ran after him in a lone
line, twisting and winding like the tail 0 f
a kite in a keen wind.
“I’m a crow.”
“I’m a plover.”
“I’m a eagle.”
“I’m a aeroplane; that’s better’n a
bird . . . Z-o-o-o-o-o-o-m.”
Nugget grow fidgety, and Dad roused
at them for mucking about and making a
lot of noise. So they came over and
waited near Mum again.
The tower was lying stretched out
ready with its legs near the holes. Dad
jacked up the top end until it was about
five feet from the ground, and Mr. Stas,
fixed the rope.
“Now,” said Dad to Mum, “Stas, and
me’ll steady s er with the guys, an’ you
give Nugget all you can ... You help too,
Bruno. Git a switch.”
There was a momentary pause,
“Now,” said Dad. “Right! Git up,
Nugget! Git up! Git up! Shoo! Hey,
hey, hooray!”
Dad roused, Mum and Nugget pulled,
the kids yelled, and the tower rose up a
few feet like a long, slanting ladder. Then
one of the guy-wires snapped with a
twang, and it swung round viciously in an
arc, swishing like a huge scythe-blade. It
just missed mowing down Dad and went
bang back into the dust.
DAD swore for a long time before he
cooled down.
“That’ll give you an idea,” he said.
“The sort of stuff they make these days.
Guy-wire, they call it! Wouldnt hold
up a poddy calf’s tail.”
Mr. Stas, scratched his ear thoughtfully.
“We’ll ’ave t’ twitch ’em double, he
It took a long time to get everything
ready again. The sun was hot, and Brun
dangled his feet in the cattle-troug
keep cool. At last Dad was set or
second try and this time it was a Dig
success, even though Mum led
bit too far and nearly pulled the towe
right over on top of herself. Dad
few sharp things to Mum about tnai.
While the men filled cement around
the legs, Mum and the kids rested.
“It looks silly,” said Dons It has
got a head on.” Bruno snorte .
“Wait till the wheel goes up, he
“Then it’ll look beaut.” ]aSt
But when they did get it up
after a lot of sweat and swear- c ver y.
said he couldn’t find the pump-
one had to» look everywhere.
“What sort of a thing is h.
asked. Dad was impatient. 0 ’
“A long, round, hollow those
course, with valves inside,
dirty swindlers didn’t send i. d ha d
Mum wasn’t sure whether d
said “vowels” or ‘‘bowels *^’ fth e
imagined it to be . a . cor L er The kids
stove-pipe and her icmg-t •
looked too, and Bruno pulled
out of the boxes. But there was
P)AD was red un^ffoHinner-
U When they went home to
“Bring me the ink p wr ite e m
Bruno! ”he said. By v vbole
something; good mind
damn thing back. , s o he had
Bruno couldn’t find a Pf ’ s °
rat Doris’s school-case for Q j b but
Dad complained aboU JJJ7 sC hool ° n J
Bruno told him it was ? said D ad *
“Gov’ment one, I s P ’ is
“Nothin’ the Gov ment
good.” .. Q lot of fl° ur rS
Dad wrote with a 1 j with tb
Bruno had to stand Y a bout so
spelling. He wasn’t very sur .
((Continued on P*8 e


The Bulletin
VoT. 71—No. 3 665
Wednesday, May 10, 1950
*•mf '
A SPOT OF BOTHER.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathans Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
"LABOR'S" DILEMMA.
If it were not evident before the appear-
ance of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s anti-Communist bill that the
general elections in all the States during
the firkt half of this year could be noth-
ing but a reflection of the struggle in the
Fe'deral sphere, Mr. Menzies’s bill has
removed all doubts on the subject.
The South Australian and Westralian
polls were lifeless affairs, so obviously
was public support of the Liberal-
Country alliance at the preceding Com-
monwealth polls dominant in those
States. Queensland 11 days ago gave the
Hanlon “Labor” Government a close run
for its retention of office, but Queens-
land is ruled by the anti-Communist
A.W.U., and is not dependent, as the
other States are, on Communist-controlled
coal from N. S. Wales.
In Tasmania Communism has never
been an issue, but its politics are entangled
by the P.R. voting system, and the
result at last Saturday’s polls offers Mr.
Menzies as neat an argument as he could
wish for his new Senate Bill. In Tas-
mania, as in Queensland, the election
issues were mainly local. But in Victoria,
which will go to the polls next Saturday,
local questions are overshadowed by the
general issue raised in, the Federal arena.
There as in Hew South Wales (where the
McGirr Government has delayed its
elections until the last possible moment),
the principal interest of the A.L.P.
general staff is to test the Federal
Socialists’ chances in the event of
emergency Federal general elections
this year. These two States between
them return two-thirds of the Common-
wealth Parliament, and the Canberra
Government’s anti-Communist bill has
driven the Socialist parties in both of
them, as well as the Socialist Caucus it*
the Commonwealth Parliament, into the
most acute dilemma it has faced since
the A.L.P. adopted the “Red,” or
socialisation, objective.
In the two larger States, as in the
Federal Parliament, the successful fight
against the Socialist-Communist objective
depends upon * a firm alliance of the
Liberal and Country parties. Until the
quarrel between Premier Hollway’s
Liberal-C.P. party and a section of the
Victorian C.P. is composed political in-
stability in that State’s legislature seems
inevitable; and if the issue raised by the
Commonwealth anti-Communist bill
should not settle that quarrel, then its
basis in entirely personal antipathies will
become clear.
The election policies announced by the
Liberal-C.P. leader and the Socialist
leader alike offer in themselves little for
the cure of economic ills afflicting all
Australia. The concern of both Victorian
parties is the rising cost of living through
the inflation of prices in all markets, in-
cluding that of labor. Mr. Hollway pro-
poses continuance of existing price-con-
trols ; Mr. Cain proposes new ones. But
price-control alone is not, and never was,
a remedy for inflation, as the Chifley
Government discovered and the British
Socialist Government has conclusively
proved. Its failure became apparent here
after Mr. Chifley mutilated the adminis-
tration of it by unpegging wages while
clamping down on all other costs of goods
and services; and when a disillusioned
electorate rejected the prices referendum
of 1948 Mr. Chifley, in a huff, threw
central price-control overboard forthwith.
State efforts to check inflation by joint
agreement on price-fixing have effected
nothing of value and cannot do so while
Communist executives of key unions are
permitted to carry out their policy of
limiting production while ordering strikes
to force up wages regardless of the mea-
sure of service performed in return.
There is, in truth, only one economic
problem, all-Australian, as Mr, Menzies
said in Coff’s Harbor the other day:
The economic problem of Australia
today is the problem of money’s worth, not
money. It is the problem of getting man-
power, materials and plant. Inflation is
becoming worse We need in big licks
more production in the fields and in the
factories and more imports. If our miners
won’t produce the coal we must import the
difference.... I have gone into office with a
great and difficult game to play, and every-
body is in the team.
The Federal Government alone cannot
“put value back into the pound,” and its
leaders have never professed that they
could. They can only fashion a favor-
able political climate. Their first step,
approved enthusiastically by the Aus-
tralian electorate, is to make an end of
the past freedom of the Communists
“the King’s enemies” —to sabotage in-
dustry and production.
The Hollway Ministry has already
given valuable help to the Menzies Gov-
ernment’s campaign with the exhaustive
Lowe report on Communist activities in
Victoria. Publication of the report at this
juncture brings a wealth of evidence to
justify the Menzies bill, and supports the
conclusion, gradually formed during the
late Victorian Parliament, that Mr. Holl-
way’s Essential Services Act cannot alone
protect local industry from the Com-
munists. With opportunity for common
action with the national Government now
at hand, the Victorian Premier stands in
with the Federal Government to rein-
force as necessary the Federal legisla-
tion. The N.S.W. Liberal-C.P. alliance
is expected to follow the same course for
the most important State elections of them
all in a few weeks’ time.
On behalf of the Victorian Socialists
Mr. Cain has not been able to announce
any policy except to “push on with the
fight Labor is already waging in the trade-
unions.” His masters, and those of Mr.
McGirr in N.S.W. —namely, the A.L.P.
executive —find difficulty in deciding on
their line. In N.S.W. especially Federal
and State Caucus leaders’and members
have been under a cloud with the
“Labor” industrial wing for their “anti-
union policy” in last year’s Communist-
run coal strike. How can these people
oppose the Mgnzies bill when only a few
months ago they went on public record
like this? —
Mr. Cahill (Deputy Premier of N.S.W.):
It is part of - a world-wide cold war being
waged in every democratic country... .1 he
Communists were allowed to get control of
the coalfields because members of the
Labor party were willing to sit down and
do nothing about it.
Senator Ashley, N.S.W. (Mr. Chifley’s
Minister for Fuel and Shipping): The
Communist leaders are trying to implement
a foreign Power’s policy This is a
struggle against constitutional government.
Mr. Calwell : We will use all the
resources of the country against them • • • •
I speak for 95 per cent, of the people of
Australia. Only the stars are neutral in
this fight It is a Communist conspiracy.
7 ..We will smash this strike first and
(leal with these things afterwards If it
fs left to me, into a concentration camp they
go.
Senator McKenna: (Mr. Chifleys
Minister for Health): The policy of the
Labor Government has secured conditions
for#the people under which Communism
could not flourish....lf the organisations
will not take steps to get rid of the Com-
munists, some inquiry by the Government
and some action are required so that we
will not have a repetition of what we have
to put up with in Australia today.
Mr Chifley: The whole economic and
social life of Australia is approaching
complete disruption 1 hesitate to believe
that any citizens could plan deliberately
for the holding-up of the life of the
community. But that is what has hap-
pened.... As my colleague. Dr. Evatt,
has said, it strikes at the very fabric of
society The law of the jungle is the
, Communists’ creed. ,
N Mr. J. A. Ferguson (A.L.P. president in j
N S W.): Now that we have started on the /
job of cleaning out the Communists we
intend to fight on to a successful finish, j
Our efforts will not be confined to bringing |
the coal strike to a successful finish.
But, as everybody knows, they did not
finish the job. “Labor” is headed for the
political wilderness if Mr. Chifley’s
statement on the bill means that it will
oppose in the Senate everything but the
mere banning of the Communist party—
which by itself the party has always said
would be futile. A dissolution on that
issue would so obviously make a present
to Mr. Menzies of the ensuing elections
that the hesitation of the “Labor” leaders
can only arise from a deep dilemma.
By-and-by, when they wake up, they
will realise that the Communists during
the past three years have smashed not
only the national “Labor” Government
but also the “Labor” party, and that
their efforts to conceal the disaster look
ridiculous to a public which has long
been aware of it and last December put
the fact on record. The Communists’
purpose coincides with “Labor’s” own
“Red Objective,” and their methods of
pursuing it are exactly the same. If
“Labor” now insists that the Menzies
bill will penalise the unions that is but
a confession that the unions did in 1921
force upon the “Labor” party a revolu-
tionary objective which it has since tried
to disown but cannot.
The Danger in Asia.
Federal “Labor’s” stand that “the
United Kingdom, the United States and
Holland are withdrawing or have with-
drawn from Asian territories” and that,
therefore, it would be “dangerously
foolish for Australia to assume the task
of policing an Asiatic colonial possession”
is almost beyond belief when brought
forward by a supposedly great national
party representing half the electors of the
Commonwealth. Equally out of place is
its reference to Malayan “civil disturb-
ances.”
The disturbances are no more civil
than Japan’s southwaird drive in 1941 in
the very areas which the “Labor” party
now holds to be no concern of ours —
and that in the anniversary week of the
Coral Sea battle —but which it was
screaming to Britain and the United
States to defend a matter of nine years
ago. They are Communist disturbances
organised by infiltrated Chinese immi-
grants, who have no stake in the coun-
try, acting under the auspices and direc-
tion of Moscow.
Since July, 1948, a fairly powerful mili-
tary force has been operating against the
terrorists who have been disrupting the
economy in Malaya by methods which
make the blood run cold. Hit-run raids
which wipe out villages, stabbing and
bludgeoning of trade-union leaders,
assassination of officials, intimidation and
rape of women, burning and looting are
all part of the programme being carried
out by the advance-guard of the Red
Army’s forces of world revolution, which
are in turn co-operating with the Com-
munist parties of India, Burma, Indo-
nesia and Australia. These are all on the
list to form part of Stalin’s world-wide
“co-prosperity sphere,” and they have been
cheekily stepped up on receipt of the news
that the British War Minister, Mr.
Strachey, and the Minister for the
Colonies, Mr. Griffiths, are about to visit
Malaya.
What is taking place in Malaya is
taking place in almost every other coun-
try in Eastern Asia on a growing scale,
and in every country it is directed to the
same end—-Russian conquest of the
world. It is a more dangerous and more
insidious movement than the Japanese
advance southward because every country
on the list of victims is honeycombed
with an unscrupulous fifth-column ready
to go to any length to serve its masters.
Hainan, the strategic island of South
China, has fallen into the hands of the
Communists, with all the capacious air-
fields and facilities built there by the
Japanese for the control of the South
China Sea. The control is obviously dual,
since the invading force is accompanied
by Russian advisers and technicians. The
capture of the island is part of a move-
ment to surround Hong Kong, where,
contemporaneously, there has been such
a spurt of terrorism and violence aiming
to disrupt the Government that a state of
emergency has been declared to deal
with it.
Elsewhere conditions are similar from
India, where in the isolated districts along
the Hyderabad borders Communist
ruffians were last week reported raiding
villages and murdering enemies with an
abandon which the feeble Indian Gov-
ernment cannot check, to the Vietnam
areas, where train-wrecking and dacoity
are rife on a scale comparable with that
in Malaya and carried out by the same
feet of people and for the same purposes.
/The cost in resources and lives of put-
ting down the Communist bands in Tong-
' king and Annam is enormous, and the
whole structure of government and de-
fence in the realm of the Emperor Bao
Dai is threatened with collapse under the
strain of Communist honeycombing and
pressure.
The Malayan situation is perilous. The
“civil disturbances,” so-called by the
“Labor” party, are occupying the atten-
tion of the Second Brigade of Guards, a
Gurkha brigade, a Royal Inniskilling
Fusilier battalion, the Cameronians and
many other British troops, sometimes in-
cluding marines, together with over
40,000 police and special constables. Yet
the Governments concerned are unable
to cope fully with the situation. The
hopeful atmosphere of six months ago
has been dissipated, and a position is
imminent in which the country may have
to be placed on a war basis.
Burma is having the same sort of ex-
perience—the Communist victory in
China has been followed by a massing of
rebel organisers along the Burmese
border and by the flaring-up of the
seemingly dying fire of rebellion in Burma
itself, where every effort is being made
hv the Red disrupters to destroy the
country’s ripe production so as tn t
the weapon of starvation always S
in surrounding lands tee JL
hungry population. g Wth
It had seemed for a while t.
now set up an insurgent “Governor
which may not yet have status but whfc h
at least is a rallymg-pomt for all ,fi
who are tired of the wranglings and «
cesses of an Administration the head 5
which has professed Marxist nrincinW
atoost up to the present and which w
built, like the Indonesian Governmem
out of Japanese collaboration. *
Also, what is happening in Indonesia
cannot be ignored in this country
Despite Mr. Spender’s misplaced faith in
the stability of the wretched Soekarno
Administration, it has always been plain
that it could only continue to live and
rule through alliance with the Federalists
even after the failure of the abortive
attempt of the local Communists to wrest
power from the current rulers. But'the
Communist party is not dead. It is still
a powerful and active force in indus-
try. It needs only the opportunity
presented by a weak and divided Govern-
ment, already shaken by the Westerling
and East Provinces rebellions, to complete
the chain of terrorism which runs from
China right down to the fringes of the
Malay Archipelago—even in Siam, the
one independent, or semi-independent,
country whose Government so far has
shown determination to co-operate fully
with the Western Powers in keeping Mos-
cow out of South-eastern Asia.
The situation calls for a strong, forth-
right and realistic Australian foreign
policy. The people should be told the
whole truth, thus laying the foundation
for the swift development of a proper
defence scheme to meet any emergency.
New Guinea is at the mercy of any
half a dozen junk-loads of visiting
Chinese, and if Malaya were to go the
way of China, Australia would find itself
facing a situation of definite emergency.
The very vigor and ferocity with which
the Australian Communist party is de-
manding that “Not a man, not a ship, not
a gun should leave Australia’s shores for
the vile war against freedom in Malaya”
is evidence enough of what is going on
and of how deeply our own safety is in-
volved in Moscow’s southward drive
from Peking.
Maoriland's Cost Problem.
From Auckland : New Zealand’s 1,750,000
milking cows and 32 million sheep may
soon have to work overtime to keep pros-
perity flowing unless costs are remed-m
to give Maoriland’s sterling-level pound a
better chance on the exchange front, bo
far rising world prices for f°° d stuffs and
wool, the Dominion s big sources «
wealth, have taken the brunt of the Wo
of revaluation (August, 1948), _
otherwise would have fallen hea i y
the farmers and would have brough
roar of protests; but this buoyan y s
to have reached its tot. J IJ.
the. broad, general to
rency change has been a com t
price-rises abroad rather than {he
back to costs and prices wu
Dominion. . . •, rn ct s and
The margin bet^e^ n , m S Whether or
external prices, which dec woo i gro wers
not dairymen, graziers and w th^le d g er,
are working on the right , on,
doesn’t leave much to come » na ch s rooin
except for wool. There s “[ ract .prices for
for negotiators of new cont gjve
butter and meat with John ts in
ground when they get into
London this month. are s ky-
Nearly all farm costs tod y
liigh. There’s a shortage of uP g m
farm-laborers through th u see ms
the towns under Socl *Ji™4n their share
farmers are having mo employ
of the consequences of oV d because
ment. E round Lake
watershed areas, m t 0 demands .
Taupo, aren’t standing P loade d with
shipping freights have b e because
a 7\ p.c. surcharge on P slowest ports
Auckland is now one of the ickle 0
in the world; there’s only a
cement for farmers ’were ***
are inflated ; building be dope
higher, and much w high P r j S
all until housing *f°™ cost of
needs are met; and he
pinching farmers n d o start to .
P When export P n^ e f £so-odd
there is a handy produce,
pooled funds from , t this c° ~ flo t
and wool to dip info, but m must P
melt away if heavily r a( , the Domi®
be forgotten, currency
can, at a P mch ’ n a parity
25 p.c. and yet be on *
tralia.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Senate Bungle.
The Prime Minister’s bill for an altera-
tion of Senate elections in the event of a
double-dissolution need not have been
really a surprise to anybody. It follows
from bungling by Mr. Chifley’s Attorney-
General in his legislation during the last
Parliament to increase the size of the
Parliament, with which purpose was
joined the other—and even more com-
pelling —of assuring that, even if the
Chifley Government were defeated (as it
was), it might still retain control of the
enlarged Senate.
It would be charitable to believe that Dr.
Evatt did not foresee —certainly the
Liberals did not until after the final Senate
count in the first trial of the new system
—that, in the event of a double-dissolu-
tion, the Government or the Opposition
might be returned with a majority in the
Lower House as decisive as that enjoyed
by the Liberal-C.P. coalition at present,
and yet the numbers returned in the
Senate might be equal. Under the Con-
stitution an equal division in the Senate
means that the question at issue must be
resolved in the negative. In such case
the majority party in the Lower House
could not, against the hostility of the
minority there, get any legislation passed
in the Senate, and the only means pro-
vided for solution of the deadlock by the
electors would be completely futile. The
P.R. system would'produce only propor-
tional misrepresentation ; it would subject
the majority to the minority.
These farcical consequences of the
Senate-election amendments devised by
the late Chifley Government were first
pointed out in The Bulletin soon after
the elections, and in Parliament by Mr.
Wentworth. With the “Labor” Opposi-
tion threatening already to hold up indefi-
nitely Government business in the Senate
—even measuries for which the Govern-
ment received an emphatic vote at the
recent elections —Mr. Menzies has been
obliged to prepare without delay for the
emergency which he described in his
speech explaining the new Senate-
reform bill. In plain language, if
the “Labor” majority in the Senate,
which is itself a glaring misrepre-
sentation of the popular vote of last De-
cember, is going to deny passage to the
Bank Bill, the anti-Commhnist Bill, or
any other legislation on the programme
for which the Government has the clearest
authority, then by the time this alteration
of Senatorial election machinery could
be ready it will be urgently wanted.
As Mr. Menzies explained—and The
Bulletin and Mr. Wentworth before
him—where a P.R. vote for an even
number of candidates in each State (in
this instance 10) tends to produce a five-
five result the only remedy' is to arrange
voting for an odd number. The proposal,
therefore, is to have each State’s 10 Sena-
tors (a double-dissolution) elected in two
lots of five each —five for six years and
five for three years.
The bill will have to be endorsed by
the people at a referendum, which will
the second such question due to
be submitted in that form. The other is,
of course, the legislation mentioned by
Mr. Menzies in his policy speech—to
JEake it impossible for such Socialist
legislation as the Bank Nationalisation
Act (now on its way to the incinerator)
to be enacted in future without popular
approval being first given at a referendum.
"Labor's" New Allergy.
X HE sudden allergy of the Federal
Labor” party to Communism would be
almost comic if it did not demonstrate
now purely opportunist is the policy of a
party which has been powerful enough
Australia for a decade and
which even at the last election was not
m uch in a minority on aggregate votes.
. An illustration was provided by the
incident in which Mr. Rosevear de-
cared that he would resign if it could
e Proved that “I was connected in the
motest way with Egon Kisch or any
protest against his treatment,” adding that
e had actually been opposed to Kisch’s
try into the country. It was proved
records that Mr. Rosevear
.* i *fd such a deputation. Its members
Mr - E - J - Ward, M.P., and Mr.
p™ Mulcafiy, n ot to mention Dr. Lloyd
nf Jf’ E- A> Bar ker (then a promi-
WnL WOrk . er in the cause of the Red In-
r nrn and now a State Conciliation
yommmjonej.) and Mr. R. A. King, who
years later was a Moscow delegate,
that «-. ev f ar did not resign. He said
elects WO V d k® s tupid to say that an
w hich had given him a 17,000
dec-v. ty was likely to give any other
ther^f 00 a hy-election,” which would
oKvfi e - b f a waste of public funds. The
us inference contained in his offer
yf slgnation was that he would get out
of the seat altogether if association with
the campaign for the Communist Kisch
could be proved—as it could have
oeen from various sources, including
Hansard.”
When it was suggested by Mr. Went-
worth, who ha 4 caused Mr. Rosevear’s
discomfiture, that Dr. Lloyd Ross was a
Communist Mr. Rosevear was reported by
S. M. Herald” to have said:
He was not a Communist. To prove
that, I mention that this year he was per-
to attend a Labor conference from
which all Communists were excluded.
Yet on May 2, 1940, Mr. Rosevear him-
self (‘Hansard,” 1940, p. 507) referred to
“Mr. Lloyd Ross, the notorious Com-
munist and secretary of the Australian
Railways Union,” and pointed out that
he had recently been excluded from a
Federal Labor conference.
It may be added that Mr. Rosevear,
who lately has been so concerned that
the Speakership should be impartial and
kept aloof from party politics, during the
whole term of his own Speakership was
the official representative in Caucus of the
N. S. Wales executive of the A.L.P., jof
which the president latterly was Comrade
J. Ferguson, and the A.L.P. trustees
included H. L. Denford, formerly
general secretary and treasurer of the
Communist party, and R. A. King,
formerly official trade-union leader of the
Communist party and a Moscow delegate
in 1938.
Neither Mr, Rosevear nor any other
member of the Federal “Labor” leader-
ship has shown any sensitiveness about
the fact that in the list of the leading
organisations which comprise the Aus-
tralian Federal Labor movement there
is officially mentioned the Brisbane Trades
Hall Council, with M. Healy secretary—
M. Healy being one of the leading Com-
munists of Australia, notorious for his
disruptive operations.
Neither have any of the gentlemen
of Caucus, who, so as not to split the
party, have agreed not to oppose the
Communist Party Dissolution Bill in prin-
ciple, mentioned the fact that the
Waterside Workers’ and Ironworkers’
unions, both controlled by Communists
and implementing Communist policy
against the supposed anti-Communist
principles of “Labor,” are still sections
of the N. S. Wales A.L.P.
"Jail-like" Canberra.
From “Weeping Willows” along the
Molonglo:
Macaulay wrote: “Three things invariably
happen when a Government touches any com-
modity. It becomes scarce, it becomes bad, it
becomes dear.”
Mr. Mullens, C.8.E., member for Gellibrand,
evidently agrees. Speaking on the adjournment
of the House of Representatives recently, he
mourned that Canberra, “such a beautiful
place,” should so remind him of Pentridge jail,
“where I was for a time.” He moaned: “There
is an atmosphere of gloom over Canberra, the
same as I experienced there The trees are a
delight, and I can imagine no more delightful
spot to sit down than beside the banks of the
Molonglo.”
But the local residents “cannot live by trees
alone.” Besides, there is a snake in the grass—
the monopolist. “Certain firms brood over the
place like a Colossus.”
Having reduced one of the seven wonders of
the ancient world to the dimensions of a hen
in an old-time hatchery, Mr. Mullens denounced
one firm as “the real uncrowned king” of this
glorious hut gloomy city. There is no competi-
tion, especially—it seems, from statements
which become slightly obscure—in butchers’
shops. Mr. Mullens wanted departmental
stores —even chain-stores—to be imported to
remedy conditions in which, paraphrasing
Macaulay, he said, “the prices are atrocious,
the quality poor, and the service deplorable.”
And this even in the monopoly-run city of the
Socialists’ development!
Mr. Mullens has also a distaste —strange in
a “Labor” man—for the bureaucracy:—
I listened to the doleful wailing cry of
the people. But to whom can the people
put their case in this centre of suburban
and salaried snobbery, of acute and bible-
class distinctions, where it is very difficult
to burst into the upper crust?
Not for aJ|ng time has the House, kept from
going home,“o willingly delayed its adjourning.
Menzies as Leader.
Mr, Menzies’s announcement that
debate on the Government’s policy bills
on the notice-paper must be concluded in
the House of Representatives by mid-
June has a double purpose. His Ministry
is committed to the utmost promptitude
in furnishing its statutory aids towards
“putting value back into the pound,” and
the decks must be cleared for the Budget.
The Communist Suppression Bill and
the Budget are steps of prime importance
in the Government’s programme for
combating inflation and increasing pro-
duction. So also are the new Bank
Bill and the preparations, including the
bolding of a referendum, to prevent
obstruction in the Senate. The pressure of
inflationary influences which must be
checked and turned back is growing too
serious to admit of any avoidable delays.
Yet delaying action qn all these policy
measures is exactly what the Socialist
majority in the Senate threatens.
Mr. Menzies has notably increased his
political stature since he took office. He
and his colleagues have set the right note
for the recovery of Parliament’s prestige.
The larrikinism which was beginning to
invade the Treasury benches during the
late Parliament —especially the Dorothy-
Dix artists at question-time—has been
swept away. Questions are answered with
courtesy and sincerity, though those
prompted by obvious malice or mischief
receive short shrift. “Labor” is doing its
best to preserve the class-war atmosphere,
but its derision of the Government’s
mandate and motives is artificial, and
reached an extreme of absurdity with the
{Continued on next page.)
OLD MAN OF THE SENATE.


si*
for your throat’s sake
CRAVENA
Always reliable
■ "■ -Vv \
Obtainable in
10’s & 20’s
-T'i
*
£SK
A
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION
attempt to make a threat out of a jesting
answer returned to a typical Wardi
interjection during the P.M. s.speech o
the Senate BUI. In meeting this sort ot
“opposition” Mr. Menziess ability
is unequalled. He is cm
reunite the nation in a w °
effort to recover economic hty
prosperity, and the enemies of tbs peg
the Communist fellow-traveller w
the “Labor” party, have yotJo feel
full weight of the Governments -oft:
against the class-war zeal ° , , deVelbp-
hostility to the nation’s peaceful dev
m< Mr.: Menzies’s own view o£^®
as he has said that jf J^ y , and
“a great but difficult gamP aS
everyone is in the team, J ti on 0 f
captain.” The goal is thetcsW
national vaffies-'ccon • during
political. Mr. Menzies has shown
the past months that he is■ the team,
to lead in this task— to capta
in his own metaphor an _ haS the
country is with him. H
character and the co^f een called to
emergency in which he also , that he
lead, and he has mad he has
will pursue to the end the cou
laid down.
POLITICAL POINTS
Last week was a troublous one for the
Federal Opposition, which till then had
been rather pluming itself that things were
breaking its way. Its Senate majority had
sent the Child Endowment Bill back to
the Representatives with amendments it
knew the Government would not accept
and was sharpening its teeth preparatory
to sinking them into the Banking Bill.
“Labor” members didn’t give much
thought to bank boards or child endow-
ment last week ; from Monday to Thurs-
day they were more concerned with the
deliberations of the various bodies at work
trying to decide the attitude of Caucus
on the Anti-Red Bill. No sooner had a
“formula” been found on that measure
than the Prime Minister sprang his sur-
prise bill for amending the Constitution
for the purpose of resolving Senate dead-
locks. This set “Labor” members, par-
ticularly in the Senate, a first-rate problem
to take home for the weekend.
The “Labor” party’s decision to sup-
port the anti-Communist bill in principle,
but to propose certain amendments, re-
flects the struggle that went on behind
the scenes before agreement was reached
—if reached it really was. Caucus in-
cludes all shades of opinion on the bill,
from those who would like to reject it
in toto to those whose only regret is that
their own party did not bring it in. Prob-
ably the only point on which all were
agreed was that the party would be anni-
hilated if it had to fight an election on
complete rejection of the bill. A com-
promise of some kind was inevitable.
Of the four amendments foreshadowed
by Caucus —onus of proof, right of
appeal, powers of search and compensa-
tion for successful appellants —the first is
the most important. The Prime Minister
in introducing the bill stressed this, and
in a later interview indicated that he re-
garded it as essential to the working of
the bill; to temove it would make the
task of the Security service impossible.
“Labor” speaks as though the placing
of the onus of proof on an accused person
is being introduced for the first time.
Numerous critics have pointed out that
similar provision is contained in the
Crimes Act, the Customs Act and the In-
come-tax Act. During its eight years in
office the “Labor” party made no attempt
to repeal the provision or to interfere
with its' operation. Last year' Dr. Evatt
included a similar provision in the emer-
gency legisation to deal with the eoal-
stfike. If “Labor” claims to be opposing
the onus-of-proof clauses as a matter of
principle it is* mouthing* hypocrisies.
If principle is to govern “Labor’s”
attitude towards the Menzies bill to
amend the constitution it is hard to see
how the party can possibly oppose the
proposals. The purpose of the double-
dissolution clauses of the Constitution is
the overcoming of deadlocks between the
two Houses. It is obvious that under the
legislation brought in by the Chifley
Government a double-dissolution instead
of ending a deadlock would almost in-
evitably produce another. The Menzies
proposal, if accepted by the people, would
not make deadlocks impossible, but it
would make them highly improbable. If
“Labor” opposes the bill it will be saying,
in effect, that it does not want the people
to have the power to end a deadlock as
the Constitution intended they should
have.
“Labor,” despite its Senate majority,
has no power to prevent a referen-
dum on this question. If the
Senate twice rejects a bill to amend
the Constitution it may be submitted to
the people at a referendum without the
consent of the Senate.
The official “Labor” statement on the
anti-Communist bill says that the sections
dealing with the banning of the Com-
munist party will not be opposed because
“the Government made clear its intention
to ban the Communist party before the
elections.” That is a perfectly democratic
acceptance of the principle that an in-
coming Government has a mandate to
do anything set out in its pre-election
statement of policy. At the same time
“Labor” is opposing the Government’s
banking and child-endowment bills, both
of which were specifically mentioned in
its policy speeches. Consistency: it’s
wonderful!
One feature which many practical poli-
ticians would have liked to see included
for referendum in the measure to end
the Senate deadlock would have been
an amendment of Section 57 of the Con-
stitution to provide for final decisions on
disputed bills to be made by a vote of
the joint Houses. The only double-
dissolution so far was granted on a bill
deliberately framed by the Government
of the day to assure that the Opposition
would reject it. If Menzies could
secure passage of a bill by the joint-
House method it would save a lot of
time and discussion and get over the
existing dangers inherent in a hostile
Senate.
It almost seems as if the electors of
Tasmania put their heads together last
Saturday to provide Menzies with a per-
fect example of how unworkable pro-
portional representation can be when an
even number of seats is allotted to each
electorate. Tasmania’s five divisions re-
turn six members each; counting is not
yet finished, but it seems almost certain
that the latest election—made necessary
by a deadlock in the Assembly—will
result in “Labor” and Liberals each having
15 members. Neither side will be able
to govern, and another election the
fourth in 2>\ years—seems inevitable.
The obvious solution to avoid yet an-
other stalemate is for Parliament to meet
and by consent of both parties pass an
act increasing the number of members
in each division to seven. As with the
Menzies bill this would not completely
eliminate the possibility of deadlocks, but
it would make them much less likely. ,
Although Townley was not able to
oust the Cosgrove Government —that will
have to await yet another election —he
has every reason to be pleased at the
reaction of his own electorate to his
assumption of the leadership of the
Liberal party. In 1946 he topped the
poll in Denison as an Independent with
8445 votes. At the 1948 election he was
again elected, but his score was down a
little. On Saturday he polled the largest
vote in the State —9379, ..with more to
come.
Independents have had a good run in
Tasmanian politics in the last few years,
but the tide has turned against them and
the State has gone back to the two-party
system. Wedd (Denison) and Gray
(Franklin) lost their seats to Liberals on
Saturday. The poll also brought two ex-
M.H.Rs. into the Assembly ; they are Dr,
Gaha and H. C. Barnard, former Minister
for Repatriation. In giving Barnard the
preference over Minister for Tourists
Howroyd, the electors of Bass showed that
in rejecting him last December they were
voting not against him, but against
Chifley. Other “Labor” men who lost
their seats at the Federal election will
probably gain some small consolation
from this.
Victorian electors will have their say
next Saturday; their problem is to try
to find a stable Government from among
the three warring parties. Cain’s “Labor”
party with 16 members in the old Parlia-
ment speaks bravely of gaining a majority
—this would mean winning at least 18
more seats —and McDonald’s Country
party, with a similar number, says it will
not join a coalition with either, “Labor”
or Liberals, but seems to cherish hopes
of reviving the old Dunstan era of
minority Government. Hollway’s L.C.P.
has trodden on corns here and there, but
it is the only party of the three with any
hope of gaining a clear majority in the
Assembly. If it does not manage to
achieve this on Saturday some kind of
coalition with the C.P. is the only answer.
Youngsters who make preposterous
vows they cannot fulfil and later plead
that they had their fingers crossed will
have a new way out in future: “I was
only pulling a Rosevcar,”
When the Finnan Bread Bill was intro-
duced in the N. S. Wales Assembly—it
compels bakers, in certain circumstances,
to deliver bread within a three-mile radius
of their depots, with severe penalties for
refusal Opposition member Morton
asked what action would be taken against
a carter who refused to deliver, since
penalties provided in the bill applied to
bakers only. Finnan, Minister for Labor
and Industry, sidestepped the question.
Last week a mass meeting of breadcarters
resolved not to serve bread ouside their
present runs. When Morton raised the
matter a'gain in the House Finnan
blustered that it was “an amazing thing
to find tlie member being in a position
to tell that the breadcarters were going
to strike.” He continued:
I want to tell the housewives of this
State that any conspiracy between the
master bakers, cum bread carters, cum
Liberal party will not prevent this Govern-
ment from carrying out its intentions.
Cum, cum, Finnan! Don’t catch the
McGirr habit of seeing plotters and con-
spirators all around you.
N.S.W. breadcarters have responded to
the McGirr Government’s Bread Bill by
serving an “ultimatum” on their bosses.
The reason why they didn’t serve it on
McGirr is probably because they reckon
his cake is dough, anyhow.
Before the Queensland election
Premier Hanlon promised that, if
returned to power, the “Labor Govern-
ment would find a solution of the egg
shortage” up north. Returned to power,
he has sooled State Agricultural Depart-
ment officers on to the job. They will
find ( a ) that in autumn hens don’t lay so
many eggs, and ( b ) that with eggs 2s. lid.
a dozen wholesale in Queensland and
3s. 7d. in N.S.W., some Queensland eggs
drift over the border. Hanlon can’t stop
( b ) without breaching section 92 of the
Commonwealth Constitution, so he will
have to speak to the hens about (a).
Picture of a future “declared” Commo
as seen by the “Standard,” official organ
of the N.S.W. “Labor” party:
The citizen, having been declared....
must set about trying to clear himself. He
must crawl to the High Court.,. .to ask
that the reversed wheels of justice be set
going the other way.
In the next breath the official paper
records a Caucus decision that the loyalty
of this “citizen” is not towards Australia
or the British Commonwealth.
At least one N. S. Wales “Labor”
Minister had the courage to speak out in
favor of the anti-Red bill without waiting
to see which way the Federal caucus cat
jumped. Writing in the “Sydney Morn-
ing Herald” W. F. Sheahan, Minister for
Lands, supported the bill, which he said
was “designed to preserve th« c
the nation.” He SJTS&'gW*
design to destroy the trade-union m y
ment,” and he felt that “unions S. 6 '
more to fear from Communism ZnT*
the proposed legislation.” Of the m
of the onus of proof Sheahan said!?° n
lhould n irshSd dem ff
sasr-
likewise demand it. atlon ma y
He suggested, however, that the Dm
vision for appeals to a High Court h £
was inadequate, and that appeals shS
fee tp any judge of the Commonweal
for^^S s S &h haSare ? u «»"
wTr P ft akmg hIS mmd » he criticised the
McKell appointment as G.-G. and Z
away with it. He knows and Caucus
knows that he can hold Yass for “Labor”
and that probably no one else could. ’
Observations by the three judges of the
Arbitration Court bench on claims made
upon employers by metal-trade unions
for increased basic wages in the industry
on refusal of which they had declared a
ban on overtime:
Dunphy, J. (to advocate for sheetmetal
workers): Your workers can afford to
reduce their wages by £2 or £3 a week by
refusing to work overtime.
Kelly, C.J.: Statements that the cost of
living has increased beyond the wages of
the workers are deliberately misleading or
merely speculative. The average wages* in
the Australian community have increased at
a higher rate than the purchasing-power of
money.
Foster, J.: Real wages have more than
kept pace with the purchasing-power of
the £.
Brigadier J. Enoch Powell, British
Conservative M.P., in a special article in
Monday’s Sydney “Herald,” describes the
Malayan “bandits” as “anti-British poli-
tical terrorists” rather than Communists.
The “Straits Times,” on the spot, doesn’t
agree. On April 28, commenting on Aus-
tralian “Labor’s” attitude, it said:
The Malayan war is not a rising of
Malayan nationalists. It is part and parcel
of the Communist world war. The Com-
munists in Moscow, in Peking and in the
Malayan jungle all have said so. Why
should Australian Labor not believe them?
Queensland “Labor” squeezed home in
the three doubtful seats—Bulimba, Nash
and Windsor—in each case by less than
50 votes. Make-up of the new Parlia-
ment will be “Labor,” 42; Country
party, 20; Liberals, 11; North Queens-
land Labor, 1; Independent, 1.


SINCE 1847
fdg
OF GOOD WINE
FOR MORE THAN
A CENTURY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Knight Jimmy Mitchell, Westralia’s
Governor, who jogged past his 84th mile-
emne in Perth the other day, hails from
Runbury (W.A.), from which southern
nort sallied forth John Forrest, explorer,
statesman and first Australian-born peer.
Mitchell owns to a bit of distinction him-
from a banking career into Parlia-
ment as M.L.A. for Northam in 1905, a
seat he held for 28 years; twice Premier
an d Treasurer ; and Westraha’s vice-regal
representative for the past 17 years,
making him the doyen of those gentlemen
in Australia. Another distinction (one,
he claims, accorded to only five other
British statesmen, including Gladstone
and Disraeli) is having a prefix affixed to
him in public life—when, in 1907, as
Minister for Lands, he imported 500 first-
class cows from the eastern States, a
critical newspaper nicknamed him “Moo-
Cow.”
Amiable Martin Mcllrath, who owns
to County Down as his birthplace, and
who built up the big N.S.W. grocery and
general merchandise firm which carries
his name, as well as helping to direct the
fortunes of the ’Wales since 1940, has
been responsible for many benefactions—
one in the war was £lO,OOO to the Federal
Government for war purposes. Last week
Sydney University received one of its
biggest handouts —£50,000 of Mcllrath
money. It will help chase the wogs of
obscure diseases.
Passed on at East Grinstead, Surrey
(Eng.), Hugh Robert Mill, D.Sc., LL.D.,
meteorologist and geographer, friend of
Captain John K. Davis, and known to
Australians in the game as a front-rank
authority on Antarctic exploration.
Though he had never crossed the Circle,
he was acknowledged as one of the great
trio of scientific geographers connected
with the south —Markham and
Neumayer, the other two. One-time
librarian of the R.G.S., his advice was
sought by many famous names, among
them Nansen, Shackleton, Scott, Mawson
and Wilkins. He wrote (in addition to
six other books, and articles in the
Britannica) a history of exploration, The
Siege of the South Pole, and at the end
was a director of the Scott Polar Research
Institute at Cambridge. He was 89.
“Cauboy”: May Day, 1950, in Melbourne
at any rate, has harmonious associations. That
was the day in 1850 when Joseph Wilkie, a
London immigrant, opened, in the Block Arcade
in Collins-street, the music-shop later known
as Allan’s. It was in the middle of the gold
boom, but people apparently had time fo.r
music, because the shop prospered; in 1863
George Leavis Allan, teacher of singing and
psalmody, joined the business. His losses are
an indication of his profits in those days; a
great gambler, he lost £30,000 in one of his
numerous adventures in public entertainment —
Payne’s Fireworks. His son, George Clark
Allan, succeeded to the business in 1897;
Charles Tait joined it in 1884, and today most
or me surviving Taits are jn it. George Suther-
land, who, like Charles Tait, was a messenger-
boy at Allan’s, today is joint managing-director
with Fred H. Allan. Their joint service of 100
years has made it into the leading music publish-
es concern in the southern hemisphere, with
sa ~ s running info millions, and a tradition
which includes Nellie Stewart, Melba, Ada
Crossley, Brownlee and Marjorie Lawrence,
w *?° all learnt voice-production in one or the
other of the little cubicles in its precincts,
•trough whose padded doors you can still
ea , r sweating baritones and sopranos and
in every variety of instrument going
, eir hardest. Almost every famous name in
intk eatre or the concert hall has dropped
there to get a preview of the bookings for
err opening performance, from Sarah Bern-
ardt and Paderewski to Sybil Thorndike and
A,, Gcward. Present directors are F. H.
™, G. H. Allan, John H. Tait and Frank
• tait; and Ivan Tait, Frank’s son, is a
A ., , r [ n the emporium of music. Radio hit
an s ° a( lly, but it soon recovered, to become
r e . the leading publishers of electrical
thp ! 7 UIgS- H. Sutherland can Remember
wW 3yS t^le cylinder phonograph record,
sec refary Frank Plummer, who had a
a f sant tenor, would sing a new “pop” into
the n , to kc recorded on wax and sold to
ent l omer while he waited. Jack O’Hagan
Gundagai Ft Allan ’ s witb “ The Road t 0
Admiral from the U.S.:
Made his Coral Sea Week landfall in Aus-
tralia from Pearl Harbor, Admiral Arthur
William Radford, U.S.N., who while in these
parts six years ago got to know the Pacific
as well as the flight-decks of his carriers, which
helped to bomb and torpedo the Nips back to
Nippon. In the Navy since 1912, he fought
with the Atlantic Fleet in battleship South
Carolina in the Kaiser’s bid, became a naval
aviator in 1920, and has served continuously,
in that branch since. A spot of extra-naval
duty in 1929 saw him in charge of the Alaskan
Survey Detachment, a naval aviation unit work-
ing with Government departments on the forest
and mineral resources of the white northland.
From then on flat-tops were his address, first
Saratoga (which steamed with the British East
Indies Battle Fleet to lambast Sabang and
Sourabaya), then Yorktown, whose 42 aircraft,
launched 160 miles south of the Jap. force in
the Coral Sea, teamed up with Lexington’s and
tore the force to pieces with bomb and torpedo.
A couple of years as Director of Aviation
Training in Washington, then he was into it
again, commander of a carrier-task force which
unloaded belly-cargoes over, among other tar-
gets, Baker, Makin and Tarawa in the long
tight back north. Here Radford trained the
U.S.N.’s first carrier-borne night-fighter teams,
which tasted first blood when a Jap. night
•torpedo-bomber assault on the group was shot
to pieces. By 1945, towards the end, his brood
was ranging over Japan itself —Kyushu, the
Inland Sea and Okinawa —bombing and gun-
ning Jap. aircraft, ships, installations and any-
thing else promising. Promoted full Admiral
last year, Radford, short-cropped, weather-
darkened and serious-faced, now lives at
Makalapa, Honolulu, overlooking the fleet in
Pearl Harbor, the suburb where also lived
Chester Nimitz and Admiral Spruance of
Midway.
Called at The Bulletin and cornered
by Heth, Edwin Gerard (“Gerardy”).
Perhaps best known as a War I poet,
“Gerardy” abandoned freelancing in
Sydney for the land in 1921, and has
since farmed well on his wheat-and-sheep
holding 19 miles north-west of Grenfell
(N.S.W.). An original 12th Light Horse-
man, he contributed to The Bulletin
innumerable verses, mostly written in
forward battle areas, on Gallipoli, in
Sinai, Palestine and Syria. Two of his
war-time poems which have a special
vogue among Old Diggers, “The Horse
That Died for Me” and “Lofty Lane,”
appeared in Bulletin pages in 1916. Re-
membered also are the galloping verse
in his two books.) ITie Road to Palestine
(1918) and Australian Light Horse Bal-
lads and Rhymes (1919). Returning
home in 1919, “Gerardy” was a frequent
visitor to this office, and met S. H. Prior,
“GERARDY.”
who, impressed by his war verse, en-
couraged him to turn to peace-time
themes. Born at Yunta (S.A.) 59 years
ago, “Gerardy” arrived with his parents
on the W.A. goldfields in 1896. In his
earlier years witnessing the development
of the Golden Mile, he’s retained ever
since a lively interest in Westralian gold-
mining affairs, and of late has written
many a vigorous ballad of early gold-
fields life. In the roaring days of gold-
fields journalism he knew “Dryblower”
Murphy, “Bluebush” John Philip Bourke
and Andree Hayward (“T. the R.”). A
collection of his best verses, now with
the publishers, is awaiting book covers.
Preparing for the lists, N.S.W. Opposi-
tion-leader Vernon Treatt, depicted here
by Prior in the room he hopes to vacate
soon for cosier quarters. Son of a N.S.W.
public servant, it would be wrong to
assume from Treatt’s impressive career
that his path has been easy. The fifteenth
child in a family of 16, he came up the
hard way. First lusty bawl in 1897 at
Singleton (N.S.W.), pothooks at Young
public school and C. of E. Grammar,
North Sydney, then to St. Paul’s College,
Sydney University. Here, 8.A., the Pitt-
Cobbett Prize for Constitutional Law and
the Wigram-Allen Scholarship for Roman
VERNON TREATT.
and Constitutional Law. In War I he
enlisted in the ranks. Then France,
sergeant, 16th Battery, Australian Field
Artillery, 18-pounders and the Hindenburg
Line. Home, with Military Medal, to
a 1920 Rhodes Scholarship, back over the
water to Oxford, and M-A- and B.C.L.
Sub-warden at St. Paul’s till 1928, when
he took office as a N.S.W. Crown Prose-
cutor, holding the post till he resigned in
1938 to stand for Woollahra, which he
won and has retained since. In 1939 he
began a two-year term as Minister for
Justice, with the Opposition-leadership in
1946.
Challenging Liberal breakaway
Edmunds for his Hawthorn seat in Satur-
day’s election in Victoria, L.C.P. man
Leslie Tyack seems set for his share of
personal votes. Resident in the seat
for 20 years, member of its council
for 12, he had three years in
France and Belgium with the old
10th M.G. Company (two wounds)’
and in the next dust-up was a staff man
in most of the A.l.F.’s battlegrounds,
from the Middle East to New Guinea and
the Philippines (M.8.E.). Two years after
he returned Hawthorn gave him its
mayoral chains —he’d already represented
it in the Assembly, in 1939. A chartered
accountant, he resigned from the Tram-
ways Board to free himself for his election
bid.
Passed on in Goulburn, Arthur Good-
hew, blue-water seafarer (master mariner,
clipper captain), civic father (thrice
mayor', council member) and successful
nurseryman. Some years back he gave
Goulburn city three or four acres full
of shrubs and trees for park use. Visiting
Goulburn on a spell from the sea, he was
struck by the splendid display of a Town
Hall flower-show; he decided to anchor
there and Command petals instead of
poops. The night he was killed, by a
car after leaving a Council meeting, the
Town Hall was again ablaze with blooms.
A thoroughly good fellow without an
enemy, who retained a smell of the sea
in his ship-lined study, he was 86 at the
end.
Dr. John Dale, one of the best-liked
and tallest health officers Melbourne
has ever had, is due for retirement. Six-
foot-five and possessed of a most per-
suasive radio voice and manner, he has
put over his views on medicine, child wel-
fare and public health for the past 23
years. Born in Warwickshire, he served
with the British Army in War I, collecting
some foreign decorations, and came to
the job of health officer in Perth before
he joined up with the Melbourne C.C.
He is largely responsible for Melbourne’s
good-health rating, comparable to the
highest overseas standard, and his interest
in children has helped to establish 24
kindergartens in the metropolitan area.
If wholemeal bread appears on the sub-
urban breakfast table Dr. Dale can be
thanked for it—he has his own formula.
He will spend his retirement at another of
his passions—fishing—and studying the
migrations of the schnapper.
Kind news for kids, the “Numbers”
arithmetic-table book, the 100,000 first
edition of which is now on the presses
in Adelaide. Claimed to scrub black-
board tables and supervision by teachers,
this revolution in sums-slavery gets its
message across through games, four-
color illustrations and self-asking ques-
tions, allowing nippers to work at their
own pace. Hero is John Flanagan, a
former S. Australian schoolie, who took
several years over his emancipation work,
which headmasters seem to think has for
parents and teachers the labor-saving pro-
perties of a Washing-machine or vacuum-
cleaner, Five thousand copies have
already been sent to Singapore by the
D. of I„ interested inquiries have reached
Flanagan from the U.S., England, Pakis-
tan and Java, and 250,000 copies will be
rolled off this year, with the final figure
topping the 800,000 mark.
The Bulletin can’t remember a
Melbourne motor-show at which it didn’t
meet H. W. Harrison, who has been
secretarying the latest, which is also the
biggest in his 38 years’ experience. He
drove one of the first cars that started
and stopped along Melbourne streets and
still holds the oldest driver’s-licence. His
grandfather, incidentally, was also in
early on a different mode of transport —
with a master’s ticket on one of the first
coastal vessels. At ordinary times H.W.
is secretary of the Chamber of Auto-
motive Industries.
Into the Silence: —■
In Adelaide, at 65, Dr. P. T. S. Cherry, the
Port’s health officer and one-time quarantine
officer, who knew almost as much of the
approaches as the mariners using them. As well
superintendent of the Port’s casualty hospital
and its police doctor, he had been president
of the B.M.A. in 1938-39, council-member for
18 years and, from 1940, treasurer for nine. Of
his-four children, three are doctors.
In Goulburn, at 85, Stuart Belcher, grazier
and surveyor and son of A. H. Belcher, of
Wales, who in the JB6o’s founded Goulburn
Grammar. Most of the son’s surveying was
done in some of the roughest country of the
southern tablelands, to such effect that later
surveyors picking up his pegs spoke of him as
the “man who never made a mistake.” A
noted sportsman in his day, he was probably the
last surviving member of the first N.S.W. R.U.
team to tour Queensland, and at cricket was
one of the Yass “22” which played A. E.
Stoddart’s Eleven. Goulburn will miss his
staunch interest in its public affairs.
In Wellington (M.L.), Frederick Charles
Chegwin, at 71. Starting soldiering in Vic-
toria’s Permanent Artillery, he continued it in
M.L.; was in its contingent that went to
London in 1897 for Queen Victoria’s jubilee,
and when Oom Paul threw in his hat went to
South Africa with M.L.’s fifth contingent. As
trumpet-major he trained buglers for World
War I, and for 25 years was official trumpeter
in Wellington for the Anzac Day marches.
In Adelaide, J. E. Keating, chairman of the
S.A. Jockey Club stewards, who had been in
high favor among racing South Australians since
in 1948 he came from stewarding the Straits
Racing Association in Malaya. Previously sec-
retary of the Woodend (Vic.) Racing Club for
17 years, he was a War I Digger, as well as
flight-lieutenant in the second.
In Melbourne, at 72, Dr. William H. Pitched,
M. 8., 8.5., D.D.R., D.Ph., radiologist and,
possibly, Australia’s best-known medico-
journalist. Three of his publications, The
General Practitioner, The Physician’s Index and
Medical Topics, had almost as world-wide a
circulation as his clergyman father’s had in a
different field—he was the fourth son of W. H.
Pitched, author of Deeds That Won the
Empire.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTEO
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Bo”: With the death-rattle in the
party’s throat, our local Kremlin-crawlers
have broken out in a furious rash of
whitewash-and-oil. The burden of their
song is that Menzies —the “z” being
clumsily fashioned into what they hope is
a swastika—is a Fascist who should be
sent to Malaya, “not our boys”—a very
touching concern for warriors hitherto
unnoticed. The favorite location of these
“messages,” of which travellers take not
the slightest notice except to remark what
quarter-wits the Comrades must be to
spend so much time in wasted effort, is on
the brickwork of cuttings and bridge-
approaches facing suburban railway-lines.
The latest crop are not so much messages
as short-stories. From my suburban
train window I got as far as “Menzies
says Peace Council as red as the Red
Dean so is A.L.P,” The overhead bridge
cut the story short, though there was a
bit on the other side, something about
“Menzies 4 war, Communists 4 piece”—
a form of brevity which I suspect owed
more to the painter’s desire not to be
pinched at work rather than because he
had run out of brickwork. No doubt
when the ban comes these blokes who are
making the place untidy with their work
and their presence will be reduced to
even greater splash-and-run brevity, and
soon we will probably see Bn Mnzs. Lng
Lv Stln!
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I’m no hero, but a bloke
couldn’t ignore a thing like that. The
little girl’s screams continued after the
bulky youth had hurried into the scrub
with his wriggling burden. “Put me
down, put me down,” the child was cry-
ing. I could see her tear-stained face
over his huge shoulder as I caught up.
The young giant swung around. Instantly
his victim saw her chance; her finger-
nails scratched like claws; she kicked
with her knees and little sandals; her
whole body wriggled in an effort to free
itself from those thick, powerful arms—
and I rushed in to her assistance. It
wasnt a punch—l distinctly remember
the way those gorilla-like fingers seemed
to spread over my mouth and nose—it
just seemed that he placed the palm of
his hand under my chin and sort of lifted
and pushed. The blackberry-bush must
have been just an. unfortunate coinci-
dence. By the time I’d made my painful
extrication the assailant was out of sight,
but the thudding of his heavy boots came
back like the sound of a running ele-
phant. I wasn’t enjoying my heroism;
thoughts of dashing off to look for the
police flew to my mind. Then the girl
screamed. I ran towards the sound. The
track burst on to a red-dust road. On
the opposite side the youth was disap-
pearing through a gate in* a high paling
fence. I had almost reached the spot
when realisation came. And there was
my villain, almost crying as he purred to
the little girl: “Gawn, Bubbsie, play with
these other little girls ; their big brothers
don’t have to bring them to school —
they like school.”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Bumpkin”: The names of almost all
of the mason-architects who built the
glorious cathedrals of the Middle Ages
are lost, although the buildings are
masterpieces comparable to the greatest
works of the greatest painters. Future
historians at least will be. able to give
the names of the stonemasons who did the
last bit of real stonemasonry in Mel-
bourne. They are Denis Bracken (Irisji),
Gilbert Bryant (English), James Scarse
(English), Tony Grirna (from Malta), John
Clode from London and Steve Ennor, an
Australian, Working on two walls at
the Law Courts, they all stem from a
centuries-old tradition, all are old men
and all believe that theirs is a dying trade
and they will never get another job;
they will have no successors because no-
body wants to learn stonemasonry in these
days of reinforced concrete, fibrous plaster
and prefabricated houses. Bracken’s first
job in Australia was the marble staircase
at Melbourne’s National Gallery when
wages were £3 weekly. Thus has one
of the world’s oldest and most beautiful
crafts been vanquished by modern “pro-
gress.” Which reminds me of a current
joke-block—q housewife saying to her
husband: “The electric toaster’s broken,
dear. Do you remember how we used to
make toast?”
* * * *
“Uco”: According to the cables rabbits
have done considerable damage to the
winter com crops in Sussex, with the
result that “children are now being told
that the rabbit is no longer a friend.”
Whoever is setting out to re-educate the
youngsters along those lines is tackling
a man-sized job; writers of children’s
books have so thoroughly indoctrinated
the minds of their juvenile readers "with
the idea of the friendly bunny that it is
almost impossible to convince even Aus-
tralian kiddies —at any rate, in the cities
—that the rabbit is a pest. Every
youngster sides with Brer Rabbit in his
battles of wits with Brer Fox ; he reads
of the doings of Peter Rabbit, Cottontail
and the rest; follows the adventures of Ben
Bunny in the Sunday comic; accepts the
“Saves time doing them together."
myth of the Easter bunnies bringing the
Easter eggs; hurries along with Alice
after the White Rabbit. In all these
stories the rabbit is shown as a lovable
little fellow; what is needed is a kid’s
book that will show him up in his true
light as a rogue and vagabond. I’d write
it myself, but what’S the use? The pub-
lishers are completely sold on the good-
little-bunny idea.
“SPo ke ” : Colonel Kent Hughes,
once horrified the sports by
suggesting that public-school rowing-
races should be abolished, as it was his
opinion, though himself an ex-schoolboy
athlete, that they were detrimental to the
future health of adolescents. He may
have been right, but there are some
statistics that convey a contrary proposi-
tion. All the members, of the Melbourne
Scotch crew which rowed in the first race
between Scotch and Melbourne Gram-
“You HAVE got a nerve!”
mar lived to over eighty. John Charles
Field, who delivered the initial challenge
to Grammar in 1868, died at 88, the last
survivor.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: No headlines are more
misleading than those on the sporting
pages of the dailies. The announcement
“Picasso an Artist” caught my eye in a
railway carriage the other evening. Peer-
ing closer to get the hang of what seemed
a superfluous piece of information I read
that he had behaved like an artist oyer
six furlongs.
* * * *
“Brolga”: A few weeks ago, according
to Press ballyhoo a “noiseless” tram began
running on Sydney streets. Yesterday I
spotted it for the first time. Front and
rear it bore placards stating that “This
tram has resilient wheels.” Alongside the
plaeards was the vehicle’s number, 1958.
Coincidence or prophecy?
»*„ # *
“Melbn”: I see that Sydney health
officers are intensifying their campaign
against spitting. Well, believe it or not,
we, in Melbourne, don’t spit, though 20
years ago the city’s pavements were a
horrible advertisement for its hygienic
habits. Mr. Jordan, Melbourne’s’chief
health inspector, puts the phenomenon
down partly to a campaign begun in the
early ’twenties, when Saturday mornings
were devoted to spotting spitters and
prosecuting them, to the disappearance of
spittoons from railway carriages and
barbers’ shops and the replacement of
the pipe by the cigirette. So Sydney
needn’t lose hope. 1 think it was in
Sydney where R. L. Stevenson en-
countered the man whn iv
the hotel floor R kep u Spittin g on
toon in his direction the ‘ spit-
bypassed it RL S ’ • he Ca refulJy
offending stranger Until the
his mouth and said • ‘‘lf , pipe from
ing that thing under’ mv n^ U fe p shov-
have to spit in it ” y e ’ Mlster . I’ll
* *'
“D.A.”: The British Mnw cu*
in New York towards the end * held
made a great impression on A °* - April
The British Ambassador, Sir Oliver
Franks, introduced Paul Hoffman, E.C.A.
administrator, who made an appeal to
the American people to support British
enterprise. Accompanying him on the
platform were Alfred P. Sloane, chairman
of General Motors, and Henry Ford 11.
The comments of Sloane were interesting:
“I congratulate you upon coming over
here,and making such constructive and
determined efforts to participate in this
market. You have done it very definitely
on American lines. It would be pre-
sumptuous on my part to present any
point of view as to what amount of busi-
ness you might enjoy here. I think, how-
ever, it will be better than even you ex-
pect.” Over 100,000 visited the show, and
Rootes group alone reported sales
amounting to nearly 500,000 dollars.
« * * *
“K.R.”: Can’t accept Plato as an
authority for the existence of Atlantis
(B. 19/4/’5O). The old boy merely wrote
that someone had told him that his gran -
father had heard that the great Power or
Atlantis had invaded Greece at a tan
corresponding to 9600 b.c., some
years before Plato was born. As to
moon’s origin—isn’t the accepted
planation that the earth and moon were
once one body and that t^ e . m0 ? tl nt : s
thrown off? Supporters of the
theory will have to produce better ev
dence than they have so far tende
“Bagot”; Electric-belts (B. J2/4g
have vanished with other quee S
and cure-alls advertised in old m g
As boys a pal and I used to 811 in> “
post the coupon below just fo•
recall a jar of magic paste
give the user that inanly, br j wo
plexion all the d T ed but this
guineas was the price first ask » inter .
was gradually reduced at m of^er _ we
vals until there came the fin■ the
had our last chance of ens a
womenfolk for “an extra-sp
sion rate of half-a-crown.
* * *
“Sixenate”: Usually one
who remembers an associ . him
of the parties in a case which better
feel that another l udg ®J
handle it. But sometimes The r A
is revived by one of t P a go,
tough-looking customer m th r
appearing for himself, tr j a i by
to postpone the hearing pa st asso-
another judge in view of rern ember,
elation. His Honor could
and asked what th c , rse once,
been. “I sold yer Honor a fflern0 ry
said the litigant, A flash alld he
seemed to come to the judge*
stared sternly at th ~ be said-
have^ofte^wondered
with that horse-deal.
A SCARLET WOMAN.
“Mr. Rosevear, M.H.R. and former Speaker, who
has been noticeably critical of the new Speaker,
■said he would resign if Mr. Wentworth could produce
evidence of his association ‘in the remotest way’ with
the Czech Communist writer Egon Kisch; and the
evidence produced, said he was unable to resign.”
When we got a new ’ousekeeper,
Rosie ’ad a bout of tears:
“This is ’ow a girl is treated
After servin’ all these years;
I, ’oo kep’ the ’ouse in border,
Now am cast orf like a glove
By the family I cherished
With a bosom full of love!”
We was all a bit embarrassed
Seein’ Rosie’s bosom wrung;
Then she set on ’er successor
With the rough edge of ’er tongue:
“Look at ’er, the Scotch Pretender,
Look at the new master’s pet!
Though she’s ’andsome with ’er wig on,
She don’t know ’er hetyket!”
Up spoke little Willie Wentworth,
Answer to the maiden’s' wish,
“Come, now; don’t take on so, Rosie—•
“Ow abart a little Kisch?”
“Don’t you dare say that!” said Rosie.
Willie said, “I must remark
You was seen with'Kisch’s cobbers
In the lobby after dark.”*
“This,” said Rosie, “is outrageous!
This js past all ’uman bounds —
Sayin’ I would let a burgular
Or ’is cobbers in the grounds!
Never in a life of hinsults
’Ave I bin hinsulted so,
If so be ’e proves it on me
Hup I git, and hout I go!”
Well, no offer could be fairer,
We was tired of Rosie’s moo,ds;
It would solve a lot of problems
If young Willie ’ad the goods:
So imagine our emotions
When young Willie came to light
With the tale of Rosie’s trouble
All typed out in black and white!
We at first was all elated;
Some of us began to cheer;
Then somebody said, “Poor Rosie!”
While some others said, “Dear, dear!”
Rosie said, “Now, don’t be frightened,
Don’t go worry in’ your ’ed,
For I ’aven’t no intention
Of departin’ like I said.”
Then said Willie, “Let’s be generous!
Though she didn’t tell the truth,
It’s the sort of thing that ’appens
To a girl when in ’er youth.
It was Kisch wot got the pleasure,
Now poor Rosie gets the blame —
In ’er shame let us befriend ’er,
Since we’ll ’ave to, all the same!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Pawang”: The dictum of an American
psychiatrist that there can be no such
thing as love at first sight has given the
“Argus” its latest silly-season topic. One
psychiatrist in Melbourne, asked for his
opinion, gave a contrary judgment. They
can’t both be right, but it all depends
on what they mean by love. If they mean
the feeling a girl gets when she walks
into a drawing-room and sees a young
man in Harris-tweeds looking like Clark
Gable or the thrill the young man gets
when he sees a girl who reminds him of
Lana Turner and otherwise seems to have
everything his mother would approve of,
then the Melbourne psychiatrist is right
and the American wrong. We all like
that which fulfils our associations, but
unfortunately love can’t be made in terms
of our associations, and it will frequently
be found that a week or a month or a
year later we wouldn’t walk across the
street to speak to a girl whom we formerly
felt to be an angel. It is a significant
fact that none of the great lovers of
history—Tristan and Isolde, Aucassin and
Nicolette, Heloise and Abelard, and
Romeo and Juliet —ever consummated
their love. There is no reason to believe
that if Isolde had married Tristan she
wouldn’t have lived the same cat-and : dog
life she had lived with King Mark, and
there is no reason to believe that Tristan
was any better than her husband. Yet
they certainly fell deliriously in love at
first sight. If what the two psychiatrists
are talking about is the biological rela-
tion, then the reply of the Trobriander
girl who, when she was asked if she loved
a young man, said: “I don’t know —I
haven’t slept with him yet,” throws some
light on the situation.
* * * ♦
“Brolga”: The place, New South
Head-road between Double Bay and
Edgecliff; the time, just after six on
Saturday night. The man lying in the
gutter with the terrier standing over him
might have been tlae victim of a hit-and-
run driver, though the bottle near him
another cause of his plight.
Whatever the cause, he wouldn’t lie too
l°ng in that busy thoroughfare before he
was a dinkum casualty, so I pulled up.
binding that it was the bottle which had
been responsible for his collapse, I tried
to drag him to a safer possie for his
recovery', but whenever I took hold of
fi>rn the tyke took hold of my pants-leg
!n a misguided effort to protect her
master. I stepped into the middle of the
mad and tried to hail passing cars for
eI P- At least a dozen ignored my signals
and accelerated up the hill before a bus
opped and the driver and conductor
mased the hound while I dragged the
°dy across the pavement. I’m still think-
ng about those drivers who wouldn’t
°P ** COU W have been a real accident
Wlth a man badly hurt.
t ** * #
i Carrots for night vision (B.
Alp 50)? How often did we of the
'/■ have to eat carrots once and twice
to allay suspicion of the fifth-
umn that the reason for the success of
the Air Force at night-fighting was that
the air crews ate plenty of carrots! Not
until after the war was it admitted that
their success was due to radar and that
the various services were .fed carrots in
abundant quantities so that the enemy
would be given a false trail to follow,
1. haven’t eaten carrots since that an-
nouncement.
* * * *
“Becks”: While not doubting the main
facts of “C.B.’s” excellent little history
of “the zwarming of the Zwars” (B.
“ Don’t do that — you’ll wake the baby!”
3/ 5/ ’5O) I’m afraid he has got k SOme of
his wars and Zwars a trifle mixed. The
Elector of Saxony (not Emperor) - who
changed his religion to become King of
Poland was Frederick Augustus I, and
as he took the royal title in 1697 I can-
not swallow the statement that the father
of the present Henry Zwar “took a
strenuous part” in the rising that fol-
lowed that event. The insurrection in
which he figured was obviously that of
1848, a year of revolution all over
Europe. Religious differences were
among the causes, but the immediate
reason for the revolt was the king’s dis-
missal of the Diet after refusing its
demand for a new and more liberal con-
stitution. Prussian troops were'used to
put down the rising, but I doubt whether
they were styled “Huns,” either then or
in 1697. That term was revived in World
War One, partly through the ruthlessness
of the Geman troops in Belgium and
partly through a speech of Kaiser
William some years previously, when he
exhorted troops leaving for China to
emulate the deeds of the Huns of old.
* * * *
“F.S.” on the ancients and moderns:
A fascinating show of ancient arts and
sciences at Wirth’s Olympia in Melbourne has
been prepared by a religious organisation.
Enormous placards present quotations from the
Old and New Testaments, and opposite them
are evidences of their truth provided by geolo-
gists, archaeologists, palaeontologists and other
industrious researchers who have unwittingly
unearthed from stone inscriptions and from
images proof that Paulus was proconsul in
“It’s time to go to Work , Matthew —the bell's ringing."
Cyprus when the Bible said he was and that
an Unknown God was worshipped in Athens
in St. Paul’s time. The meanings are somewhat
strained when the record goes back 20,0U0
years b.c. It isn’t to be supposed that the
Old Testament writers knew anything about the
origin of species or the survival of the fittest
or much about the movements of the heavenly
bodies, and they may even have believed that
the earth was flat and that if they walked far
enough in one direction they would fall ofi. it.
Thus any deduction in terms of modern know-
ledge from the statement of a prophet made
4000 b.c. has to be accepted with reservations.
But no reservations are necessary about the
arts of the ancients. It is rather astounding to
find the potters of Ur of the Chaldees making
ewers and basins much more beautiful than
the products of the Arts and Crafts .Society in
Victoria, Cretan masons building palaces better,
architecturally, than anything presented in the
latest Melbourne architectural competition, and
cavemen with burnt sticks and bits of colored
earth doing rock-drawings of bison which have
precisely the same quality • of observation as
Rembrandt’s etchings made 50,000 years later.
It is also interesting to find sun-dried bricks ot
clay and straw in the exhibition which were
made 4000 years ago in Egypt and Mespot
in exactly the same way as they are being made
at present try sundry groups of enthusiasts m
Victoria to build their houses in the current
materials shortage. There was a materials
shortage in ancient Egypt, where there was
plenty of mud but no stone, but there was no
official opposition to the humble mudbrick,
so the land was covered with mudbrick cities,
some of which have lasted to this day. There
is plenty of official opposition to the mud-brick
in Victoria, but it js based on prejudice, not
reason —otherwise how could they explain their
admiration for whole civilisations built on
mudbrick?
* * * *
“Horseless H.”: Wedding-day advice
that sticks (B. 19/4/*50)? My mate
warned me that when the missus came
home with an atrocious-looking new hat
for Gawd’s sake praise it up. If you don’t
she’ll never wear it, and will go away
and buy another that’s worse! I didn’t
believe him then, but now —well, I
reckon this false, praise has resulted in
women’s hats developing into hats that
aren’t hats.
* * * *
“Sackville St.”: Even more beloved by
the Press boys than the “If-he’d-been-
somewhere - else - he -wouldn’t-have-been-
killed” theme (B. 19/4/’5O) is the dreams-
come-true blurb. My interest in race-
horses is an annual affair that flickers to
light every November and exhausts itself
in a two-bob sweep; but even I have
dreamt that certain horses have won the
Melbourne Cup, It is scarcely surprising,
then, that the punter who has been pro-
claiming for a month that Deadlegs will
win the Muggins Plate should find his
obsession has worked its way into his
dreams. Whether the dreams come true
depends more on the dinkumness of his
oil than the infallibility of the omen, but
the one case in a thousand that turns up
trumps never fails to cop headlines. A
variant of the theme is provided by the
lott’ry-winner who, after dreaming ‘ The
Dead Broke Syndicate” won first prize,
promptly bought a ticket and gave it the
necessary title. The moral behind the
fancy seems to be that to dream about
an event is a certain way to make it come
to pass. But one aspect is never made
clear; Do the gods of chance send the
dreams to their favored ones because they
know which marble or horse is going to
win, or do they rig the race or “fix” the
barrel to fulfil the text of the dreams?
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”; Of all contro-
versies that about the respective values
of trams and buses would seem to be
most devoid of the elements that stir the
passions; yet when two somewhat
damaged middle-aged citizens appeared
in a suburban court to answer charges
arising from a pub-brawl it was stated
that a debate upon this seemingly in-
nocuous subject had generated a heat
that had led to insulting personalities,
fanciful descriptions of one another’s
ancestry and then blows. As the men
were strangers there was no feud to ex-
plain the sudden rise of blood-pressure.
Apparently there is no human controversy
that is entirely without those elements
that prompt a desire in men to shed the
blood of their opponents through the nose.
* * * *
“Zake”: To the accompaniment of the
usual sentiments, the floweriness of whose
phrases are excelled only by their patent
insincerity, the community is again being
exhorted to pay tribute to the nobifity
of maternal love by spending as much
cash as possible in the shops of those
who are so tenderly solicitous —at least
temporarily—of Mother. The favorite
form the tribute takes, judging by the
advertisements —though I did note one
optimistic firm suggesting a cocktail-cum-
radiogram outfit for the modest 180
guineas—seems to be slippers, but only the
aristos of the tribe. The most important
feature is the pom-pon or suchlike em-
bellishment, guaranteed to come apart at
the first tug given by the pup or the kitten.
Strangely enough, when these 355. aristos
are so denuded they look remarkably like
those the chain-stores sell for five-bob
and last much the same time —until Mum
pushes her big-toe through the paper-
thin felt. I have often wondered from
what rare and 'costly material these
slipper-embellishments are made. I have
an idea they must be stoat’s feathers,
* * * *
“Kelms”: You simply can’t win when
you’re dealing with the public. Oppo-
siton to the proposal to “stagger” the
departure times from Perth airports of
T.A.A. and A.N.A. planes has come
from an unexpected quarter. It seems
that the arrangement whereby one plane
left soon after the other was handy for
the husband and wife who made the trip
together—in time —but travelled in dif-
ferent aircraft just in case.
* * * *
“8.P.”; Swallowing dentures (B.
3/5/’50)? Years ago a man came home,
had his tea, lay down on a couch after-
wards and* fell asleep. When he awoke
he was immediately conscious of a painful
obstruction in his stomach and a missing
upper plate. He was rushed to hospital
for an operation, but died under the
anaesthetic. The upper set was later found
under the cushion of the couch. That
was before the X-ray was in universal
use.
* * * *
“M.G.”: How much labor do these
labor-saving machines really save? At
the International Motor .Show in Mel-
bourne I was arrested by the spectacle
of two men painting a length of iron
piping about 10ft. from the ground, with
the aid of a very ingenious contrivance
mounted on enormous rubber tyres and
equipped with what looked like a very
powerful engine. One man sat at the
controls and the other, armed with a
pot and paintbrush, sat on a little stool.
The painter gave the word, the drive!
pulled a lever, the stool rose upward and
the painter ran his brush over a few
feet of piping. Then the machine, after
some backing and filling, moved a yard
or so along to a new spot. I don t
know what the machine cost, but one man
with an inexpensive ladder could have
done it more quickly.
**r * *
“X.Q.X.”: In 1942 two Diggers just
back from the Middle East, and sampling
the joys of Brisbane, were intrigued by
the jeeps, then an American monopoly,
and decided they must try one. Ste PP” g
into the first unoccupied one they saw,
they drove it till the petrol ran out After
a couple more drinks they decided to ge
one each, and continued their stroll till
they found two parked together, in
first man drove away safely; the secon
was just starting up when the Arm of th
Law grasped his cbllar. In court .next
morning, when the Beak asked about
record, the cop’s answer came pat U y
one conviction, jumping the rat
’thirty-one.” The prisoner swear
forgotten the episode himself till
moment.
A SURE WINNER.
„ n.vwnod producer says the best box-office
“A H ° l ,f the romantic film in which there ate
bet is etui u k . sgeg performe d by acknowledged
plenty oi
experts- ' ■ ■
the film of the West
W w;th h its mesquite, its sage and sombrero,
villain whose role’s
To d he shot full of holes
T rv a fast-shooting, clean-limbed young hero.
For the love-making mush
rhpv’ve no time m the rush—
T Tfil the last of the baddies are laid out,
When the hero will grab
F Xo a embelUsh a the ultimate fadeout.
These are well enough, mind,
Rut like all of their kind
Where the accent is ever on action—
It is always their fate
That such films never rate
l As the tops—the box-office attraction.
Though the gods must have wept,
This distinction’s been kept
For the opus whose predestination
Is ever to seek .
The most perfect technique
Of impassioned and long osculation.
The menacing sight
Of the killer-by-night _ t ,
As he creeps up a staircase and strangles;
The spectacular shot
Of the strong hempen knot,
And only his boots as he dangles,
Though they mildly may chill
Such tilings never can thrill
Like the sequence where Luv coyly beckons,
And the Great Lover there
Doesn’t come up for air
From the clinches for ninety-two seconds!
It' was Swift who remarked
(Though perhaps he d been narked)
That he wondered what fool had invented
The kiss. From this view
Any cynic, it’s true.
Will have rarely, if ever, dissented.
Well, the pro and the con
Of that statement, anon
We will leave to the sages and scholars.
But it’s Hollywood’s tip
That the grip of the lip
Is the champion spinner of dollars!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Gravelsnatcher”: I’m depressed by
“Towser’s” comment (B. 19/4/’5O) that
bulk-wheat men “leading lonely lives
sometimes act oddly.” I’m not question-
ing the statement —I know it’s true —but
I’ve never been able to understand the
type of man who can’t put up with his
own company, for a few months, in a
land teeming with such a variety of
wild-life in ideal conditions for nature-
study. I’ll grant a man the right to act
oddly if he’s cooped up in a snow-bound
hut in the middle of an Arctic wilderness,
and I’ll stretch a point in favor of city
youngsters who were driven “troppo” by
senseless Army regimentation in New
Guinea. But a man in sole charge of a
wheat-silo at a Westralian wheatbelt
siding, with nobody to question his coming
or going, with no obligation to concede
to anyone else’s fads or fancies, with
such dominion as he needs over all the
rich lands as far as he can see or walk,
with the companionship of a thousand-
and-one birds and insects and little
running beasties —the man’s in Eden
without any of the distractions that drove
Adam mad. The man who can’t tolerate
those conditions for a few months lacks
something which nature intended man to
have. Don’t ask m,e what that is, but,
equipped with it, a man can spend weeks
delving into the lives of the little earth-
burrowing insects, studying the haunts
and habits and plumages of birds, tracing
to their sources the alluring little night
sounds, listening to the bark of the fox
and joining in die sudden hush that fol-
lows the death-squeal of a stricken rabbit.
To such a man the visits of the length-
runner or the occasional stopping goods
train provides ample contact with his
fellow-humans. On a wintry day he has
“ What’d y' like , sarge—bottled or draught ?”
his books or, better still, his thoughts.
That man hasn’t lived, and certainly
hasn’t absorbed any worth-while litera-
ture, who can’t entertain himself for a few
solitary hours. The animals are happier
and more intelligent than he. Yet he
thrives, and lives, in his overcrowded
cities, shuffling his dances, guzzling his
beer and dissipating Ijis existence, bliss-
tully ignoring the fact that if he bores
mmself he probably has the same effect
on his fellows.
tt * * * *
Solitude”: The boss was away and
tor some time we had been looking after
the stock round the homestead. I haodW
the cattle while Seventyfiver tended the
sheep. He didn’t like sheep much. “Dyin’
bloomin’ things,” he growled. “Keep a
bloke busy pourin’ medicines an’ rubbish
down their silly necks. Flamin’ dear,
too, some o’ that stuff. Look at this.”
He pulled out a handful of papers and a
price-list. “Dunno why they can’t
swaller somethin’ cheaper. But his nibs
reckons them woollies in the top paddick
has t’ have this here
jawbreakin’ drench;
an’ cripes, a tin goes
nowhere. Says they
come on wonderful
after it.” He was doing
a good job, so I let
him grouch along with-
out interference till the
day Uncle Jim Stam-
bridge showed up. “The
boss said I was to col-
lect a couple of dozen
'killers when I wanted
them,” Jim explained.
“Said you or Seventy-
fiver would show me
which ones to take.” I
ran through a few of
the mobs and had just
selected the required
fats from the top pad-
dock bunch when
Seventyfiver arrived.
“Hey, y’ can’t sell them.
Sol,” he bawled, glanc-
ing at the sheep. “You
go an’ pick some out o’
one o’ the other pad-
dicks.” “But these are
all right,” I argued.
“What’s the difference,
anyway?” “No, they
can’t get killed yet,” he
announced deter-
minedly. “Don’t be so
flamin’ extravagant. It
was only yes’d’y I give them blankers a
dose o’ that dear drench!”
♦ * * *
“M S.”: A feature of the recent flood-
rains in Victoria’s hill country is the
number of landslides it caused. Great
patches on hillsides and ridges show
where the soaked earth has slid down,
blocking watercourses, breaking dams
and covering fences. Some of the slides
are on top-dressed slopes that carry a
thick coating of grass, the depth of the
damage extending far below the deepest
grass-roots. Nor can erosion authorities
claim trees as a preventive measure, for
the two biggest slides noted to date
occurred on timbered slopes. Acres of
topsoil simply slipped its moorings and
moved on, mostly leaving the trees stand-
ing in a waste of yellow clay. One slide
collected a giant stringybark and took it
along. Even bracken is evidently of little
consequence, for one flourishing patch
was torn in two, and half its area trans-
planted clumsily into the gully. Counted
10 slides on half a mile of range, all of
them on the shady, sheltered side. It
takes years for the exposed clay patches
to make over and grow grass, one big
slide still showing bare in the surround-
ing green carpet after 20 years. Trees
help to hold banks of streams and wash-
outs, but for preventing erosion from
slides they are of little use. And so, dam
it, is everything else.
* * ♦ *
“Heresone”: The claim that a mule
mare that has foaled may foal again, but
only to the same species of male as before
(B. 19/4/’5O), may be true ; if so, “Kelms”
can forget telegony as an explanation.
Every living cell contains a number of
rod-like bodies called chromosomes. Cells
of horses have 14; donkeys 20. Sex
.cells split before mating; one half are
discarded, the other, the gametes, con-
tain only half the normal number.
When the male and female cells unite
the correct number (always an even
number) is restored for the offspring, A
mule normally would have 17, 10 from
the donkey and seven from the horse.
But nature occasionally makes mistakes.
Ordinarily an animal born with the wrong
number is sterile, but a mule that was
three short could conceivably be fertile
to a horse, or, if three over, to a donkey.
To prove the theory, the mule-horse cross
should be fertile to a horse, the mule-
donkey cross to a donkey. But such
VEPS/AcW
"No—I' m just browsing round."
occurrences must, in the nature of things,
be so extremely rare that it would be
difficult to find any record of experiments
on these lines.
* * ♦ ♦
“Panlisper”: The swamp mahoganies
are in flower, and deep among their
creamy blossom sits a feathered songster,
dipping his beak into the heavy nectar,
disturbing the bees as he weighs down
the flower-branch. About 6in. long, he
has a breast that is a mixture of dark
and cream streaks, colors which merge
perfectly with the gum-blossom. His
sleek head and back are dark, and he
carries a white eye-stripe. As he lifts his
head from the dripping honey to sing
his song his elongated bill is seen to be
red, and indistinguishable from the red
of the small branches surrounding him.
His call rivals that of the magpie for
liquid beauty, though it is smaller in
volume, and at times changes to a hoarser
note. I’d like his identity pin-pointed.
* * * *
“Dinkum”: Steve was the reserved
type, and though Gunner wasn’t one to
pry he couldn’t fail to notice the worried
look his neighbor was wearing
of late. Steve was seen a num-
ber of times talking with the
local stock-agents, and Gunner
wondered if the cattle deals he’d
ventured in had turned out
badly. Then Gunner heard
strange noises coming from his
neighbor’s back paddock and
crept over the rise to investi-
gate. He found Steve mounted
on a sawn-off stump, a stick in
his hand, gesticulatihg wildly.
No one else was in sight. “Come
on now, you blokes, come on,”
bawled Steve in a loud voice.
“What’s the good of standing
there looking at me? I’m not
here for nothing, you know.
That’s first-class stock, and you
know it!” A look of shocked
pity spread over Gunner’s dial.
He took in Steve’s bulk, the
heavy stick he wielded, and dis-
creetly crept away. During the
next week he kept a wary eye in
his neighbor’s direction; then once
more he heard the voice in the pad-
dock, and approached through a
scrub patch. Steve was on the same
stump. “Worth every penny of twenty
quid,” he bawled, pointing dramatically
to a fallen limb. “And you stand there
and offer eighteen. Eighteen, eighteen,
eighteen pound. Eighteen-five, there.
Eighteen-five.” With a sorrowful head-
shake Gunner slipped down the gully to
await the other’s return. Soon Steve came
striding along, swinging the stick. “Oh,
g’day, Gunner,” was his greeting. “Wait-
ing for me? I been up the gully there.
Y know, Steve murmured Mn cj
“it don’t matter
take up, or teaching, or even S'k°“
auctioneering business I’m eoinl • here
bloke just can’t start right ! nto > a
bit of practice.” off *«hout a
* * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “I run „
Lawson in Melbourne,” said Mat Uy
remember Wally? We struck You
that transhippin’ job in Terowie a? ° a
smgin’ an’ full o’ jokes - crfiS Ways
a happy bloke. ’Member?'” P %fe « a ?
f aid; "What’s he doin’ in
He s runnm a newsagency out v
way somewhere. I’m crossirf Smi™
street an’ a big car toots at me an’ there’s
Wally grinnin’ at me from behind the
wheel. So I hops in an’ he runs us round
t’ Hosie’s pub an’ we have a few drinks
an’ a yam about Terowie an’ all that.
He asked after you, too.” I was mildly
pleased about that and curious about
Wally’s fortunes. “He must be doin’
all right,” I said. “With a big car an’ a
business. Where’d he get the business?”
“Aw,” Mat said, “seems an uncle took
him in as a partner ’bout four years ago.
Yair, Wally was doin’ all right—till
about three munce ago.” “Why, what
happened then?” “The goat went an’ got
married.”
* * ♦ •
“Jaydee”: Out after rabbits with a
gun, I discovered that they can be caught
off balance. I had almost trodden on one
in a clump of kangaroo-grass when it
sprang up, streaked straight into a dead
stump and knocked itself out.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Strange how running
water seems to carry its own guaran-
tee of purity, despite the fact that the
drinker very often can’t see more than a
few yards upstream, and that because i
is running it’s more likely to pick up
some foreign matter on the way. taK
any reasonably big fresh-water river wi
towns strewn along its banks,
warrant that each town draws its wa
from a point just upstream and P.roniDUi
swimming at that point, but facilities
swimming will be provided below in
town. And each town will swea
keeping the drinking-water clean,
garding the other blokes above an
low them. And they may be ngU■»>
that. A running stream will Quickly j t
perse any inimical matter and
to non-toxic and tasteless P rO P c«
Once when a cow fell over a 8 _? w ;tb
bank and broke its neck I was
the task of removing the ca f ca ®. ’ pis-
handed and promptly, from the ' anC j
memberment was the only sol » aQ( j
I remembered, guiltily, that ° the stream
his wife drew their water from
a few hundred yards down. It ea( j
how much blood can flow f wa t er ;
cow when it’s being butchere . 0 f
and have you ever seen^ hin2 really
a cow’s paunch? N h°l d
nauseous, but a chaff-bag 0 f jt—
it all, and —there was no way . ere » s a
it all went down the rive oranCe-
limit to the application or ® : o jj and
is-bliss philosophy, so I le t 0 hang
hurried downstream va Rut within 6
off the water for a while. , i vao ished.
yards all traces of the blopd a s peck
and inside of 10 you com it,
of chaff. I’ve never told Jim a j
and that was 10 y ear f. .\ ; Q the occ3 ‘’
think I can taste something
sional cup of tea I have at his P
SEA-COAST SUNDOWN.
One great path of glory, ending
In oblivion, waiting him —
Now the royal sun descending
Touches the horizon’s rim.
Touches, and the splendors double
As the great disk, delicately
As a child’s unbroken bubble,
Floats on the unbroken sea;
For a moment, huge with haze
And feather-light and magnified;
Till beneath the glittering maze
Drawn downward by the nether tide.
Day and night, being torn asunder,
Part with such a blaze of light,
Surely, though the sun go under,
Darkness cannot come tonight.
But the mighty shade advances
All triumphant, instantly—
Where are now the diamond glances
Of that opulent evening sea?
Gold and silver turn to sable,
Emeralds drown in purple ink:
Surely day’s enchanted bubble
Must have burst, below the brink?
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


UNIVERSITY
OF QUEENSLAND
The University of Queensland is anxious to acquire aboriginal
implements of any kind, wood or stone, used for any purpose by
the natives (particularly for ceremonial use) in order to form a
first-class ethnological museum. By giving it all the assistance
possible, you will be furthering a national and an educational
project. Any specimens sent by rail will be carried free of charge
if addressed to—The ETHNOLOGICAL MUSEUM of the Uni-
versity of Queensland, C/o Dr. L. P. Winterbotham, Ipswich
R°ad, Annerley, Brisbane, the Honorary Curator. South Sea
specimens are also required.
Gifts of money would be also acceptable, and should be paid direct to the
Registrar, University of Queensland, George Street, Brisbane, for the
Ethnology Department. Such donations are rsbatable for Income Tax
purposes.
Articles wanted include:-
Message sticks.
Pointing bones ov sticks.
Medicine-man’s and rain-
maker’s paraphernalia.
Kurdaitcha shoes..
Cylindrical-conical stones.
Thunder stones.
Tjurungas (bull-roarers), wood
or stone.
Totem signs, ceremonial figures
or dress.
Nose, ear and head ornaments,
necklaces.
Forehead bands.
Stone knives and sheaths.
Stone spearheads, or axes.
Fighting knives.
Grinding and sharpening
stones.
Pubic covers.
Didgeridoos.
Musical sticks.
Paper bark paintings.
Boomerangs, wommeras,
shields (especially decorated
ones).
Nullas and clubs.
Spears (cut for convenience of
transport).
Coolamons (pitchia).
Yamsticks, fi resticks.
Stone tools, hammers, chisels,
picks and adzes.
Plain or decorated skulls.
Bark caskets for carrying
human bones.
Toys, both children’s and
adults’.
Nets and hooks, fishing gear
and traps.
Information i
wanted concerning the use of any of the above and also
about the following:—
Totems.
Bora or stone ceremonial
grounds.
Initiation and other cere-
monies.
Chants of all kinds.
Circumcision.
Subincision, operations on
girls. .
Betrothals, marriage laws.
Lending and exchanging of
wives.
"Views of conception.
Primitive customs.
Cannibalism.
Killing of babies.
Remarkable faculties.
Tracking.
Views of death.
Disposal of d'ead.
Legends of creation and ori-
ginal ancestors.
Myths and traditions.
Various taboos.
Punishment for crime.
Belief in spirits.
Clothing.
Food and how prepared.
Fishing and how done.
Birds and how caught.
Hunting generally.
Witch doctors and their kinds
and their art.
Magic and superstition.
Medicine, herbs and healing
generally.
Use and preparation of pituri.
Abortion and how done.
Rain-making ceremonies.
Ornaments, any type.
Types of boomerangs, spears,
clubs, shields, knives and
Trading (among themselves)
and trade routes and rela-
tive exchange values.
Tjuranga (bull-roarers) —What
made of —where kept —what
their significance or sacred-
ness —how used- —how car-
ried how treated how
stored ? ,
Different types canoes ana
how made.
Ceremonial carvings on trees
and rocks.
Housing and shelters.
Message sticks and smoke
signals—how much they
could convey by means of
each, and how.
“Karrikut”: I ran into George, a
tough old-timer from a little W.A. mill-
tbwn at the Cup meeting m Perth. He
was wont to urge his fancy up the straight
with deep-throated cries, but during one
of the minor races he was strangely
ouiet “Didn’t get into the money that
time?” I inquired. “Too right,” George
replied. “Backed the winner straight-out
and placed the second horse.” “Then I
reckon you must be a bit on the hoarse
side, George?” “Stone the crows,”
George answered. “A bloke couldn’t call
out them flamin’ names.” He indicated
in his race-book with a sawn-off index-
finger the names of the mokes he had
backed. They were Thanks Lovely and
Smiling Sweetly.
* * * *
“Communications”: The little N.Q.
coastal township had been without a
dentist since the last one had'fled some
years before. Deterioration in the fangs
of the populace had led to an S.O.S. being
sent to Cairns, In due course a B.D.S.
arrived and established himself in a room
adjoining the bar of the only hostelry.
The first day passed with a succession of
carious though fearful faces peering
round the door, then fading away. But
no customers. In the evening the dentist
and one of the villagers formed the
‘’crowd” in the bar. After Bung per-
formed the introduction the local hoped
the newcomer “wouldn’t be like the last
cow that come ’ere —pulled the only
decent tooth in me ’ead and I ain’t bin
able to whistle me ’orses since.” To-
wards evening of the second day the
first victim, a 10-year-old boy, marched
into the room, flung himself into the
chair, and, pointing into his mouth,
snarled: “Pull that one.” After taking a
look the dentist explained that the molar
indicated was perfect, but there was a
very bad one alongside it. “Dad says
pull that one,” replied the infant, again
pointing out the faultless ivory. Then
belligerently, “He’s in the bar.” Corner-
ing the parent, the forceps-wielder ex-
plained the situation. Drawing himself
up, the sturdy pioneer roared: “Pull the
one the kid tells yer—well fix the other
with aspirin.” A broken man, the dentist
applied himself strictly to the bottle until
the next boat out.
* * * *
“Kali”: In a radio talk on ways to
wipe out the mosquito the old belief was
trotted out that the insect must have
stagnant water handy in which to lay its
e ggs. Actually the mossie is one of the
most adaptive of all insects and follows
no clearly defined rules in the matter of
reproduction, climatic conditions being
the most important factor in determining
when the eggs should be laid. The incu-
bation period also varies greatly; under
ideal conditions it is usually two to three
days, but cold or dry weather might pro-
long the period for months. The female
is so adaptable that, should conditions
prevent her laying, she has the power of
either hibernating or aestivating until the
following wet season, Down on the coral
atoll on which I spent some years the
mosquitoes were prevalent throughout the
year, despite that for five months not a
drop of rain fell and our tanks were
mosquito-proof. There they bred freely
in salt-water among the rocks ; despite the
millions of larvae taken by microscopic
fish, enough survived to make die
mosquito-net a necessity. A professor
of parasitology in South Africa recently
found that eggs laid on water or float-
ing vegetation might incubate in two to
four days, but those laid in saflt-water
usually took much longer.
* * * *
“Bo”: “Well, how did you sleep last
night—weren’t troubled be cockroaches,
were y’?” asked the licensee of the Char-
coal-Burners’ Arms of the guest at break-
fast, “No, there weren’t any of them,”
replied the guest. “But 1” “Well,
there oughtn’t to ha’ bin any,” returned
Bung. “Frogs are the things to clean
them up. We useter be overrun with ’em
"You haven't heard anything yet!"
until I got a sugarbag o’ frogs from the
swamp and”- —- “There were a couple
of frogs somewhere in my room last
night,” complained the guest. “Their
croaking kept me awake!” Bung raised
his eyebrows. “I thought they’d ha’ bin
too full t’ croak,” he said. “But why
didn’t y’ sing out —I’d ha’ put Bessie in
with y she’d ha’ fixed ’em, double-
quick.” “I beg your pardon?” exclaimed
the guest. “Bessie?” “Bessie, one o’
the best an’ most intelligent carpet-snakes
in the district,” explained Bung. “You’d
ha’ got a decent night’s sleep then.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Jim Burke, on his way to
Noorong with a load of chaff from the
railhead at Koondrook, got held up at
the bridge and pulled into Barham just
on dark. He decided to inspire himself
at the pub and then pull out to the Two-
mile and camp for the night. So he left
his six-horse team chewing its nose-bags
and entered the pub. An hour later
Yanga Joe’s six-horse wagon, with sawn
timber from Koondrook for a new home-
stead somewhere out Whymoul way,
pulled in behind Jim’s team, had its heads
shoved in its nose-bags and blew at the
chaff while Yanga went into the bar to
find out if he was on the right road, or
something. It was the first time Burky
and Yanga had met since Second Gaza,
though they’d been in the same district
for years. About midnight Yanga rolled
out to his wagon, automatically garnered
the nose-bags, settled himself on the shafts
and spoke to the leaders. His tail-lantern
was bobbing round the turn into the
Moulamein-road when Jim Burke came
forth, automatically garnered the nose-
bags, mounted his hack and spoke to the
leaders. In Barham they cleared the bar
and settled down for the night, a river
mist crept up the deserted street and a
lonely dog howled. From up the Moula-
mein-road came the nimble of a wagon
crossing die first of the nine bridges on
the way to Whymoul, then the village
heard no more. But there was a lot of
running-about next day when Yanga
found himself at Whymoul with a load of
chaff as building material for a home-
stead, and Burky awoke at the Two-mile
and saw a wagon-load of timber as
nourishment for some quadrupeds.
* * * *
“Derwent”: Watenhens are causing so
much damage to crops in Tasmania that
in northern districts shoots have been
organised to keep down the numbers. A
party of 12 at one shoot bagged over
300. Though not web-footed, the birds,
relatives of the bald coot or Eastern
swamp-hen, are good swimmers. Tassie’s
native hens have made periodic forays
into the mainland States. In 1846 they
invaded the streets of Adelaide. They
reached W.A. in 1886, and appeared in
northern Victoria in numbers in 1909
and 1922. Leach claims they have be-
come flightless.
♦ * * *
“E.”: Dave had been at the Hodges’
some time ; then, coming out one morn-
ing, he found Hodge messing around in
the washhouse. “You got any duds want
washing, Dave?” he called to the young
bloke. “Washing-day today.” “Gripes,
yair, loads of ’em.” Dave disappeared
into his room and reappeared with his
arms full. “Righto, dump ’em there, will
you?” he was instructed. “It’s the
missus’s arthritis,” Hodge went on. “Bad
enough at the best of times, but these
last few days she's been just about crippled
with it, so I said I’d lend a hand this
morning and do the washing for her.”
“You! Oh, er . . . awright, but . . .”
Dave paused in the act of dumping his
clothes. “But, cripes, it don’t seem right
chuckin’ me things out f’r you t* wash,”
he protested. “Just as well able t’ do ’em
meself as you are. P’raps I c’d . . He
stopped and pondered the matter for a
minute or two. “Yair, p’raps I c’d hang
on f’r a bit an’ make do with these a
while longer,” he suggested. “That is, if
y’ think it won’t be long before y’r
missus can tackle ’em again.”
“R.W.”: Tell “L.T.” (B. 26/4/’5O)
that the quondong which mystified him
in Victoria is as common round Innisfail,
Tully Falls and the Atherton Tableland
as tea-tree is round Frankston. Often
called “blue fig,” from its berries, the
tree grows to a straight 60ft. or so, and
is hardy timber used mainly for houses.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Mention in these
columns of bullock-teams in strange places
recalls that Joe Smithem, who operates
the beam of the Swan lighthouse on the
low, red-granite-bound, two-miles-long
island off the nor’-east corner of Tassie,
still yokes up eight workers in a dray
and carts the light stores across the
island’s sand-dunes. As neddies won’t
live there because of sanding, Joe got the
job 14 years ago when the department
advertised for a lighthouse-keeper-
bullock-driver. He’s been there ever
since, but he’s going to be a hard man
to replace.
* * * *
“Zake”: The fact that, like the moth,
the sugar-ant is attracted strongly by
light and often makes its appearance on
the table at night in search of the spilled
sugar and other titbits has led to an im-
pression, which is fairly general, that it is
the only one of the ant tribe which is
given to nocturnal exploration. Except
when the first drops of rain are taken as
the never-failing signal to halt all industry
in the ant world, most ants are on the job
at night as well as day, and when condi-
tions are particularly propitious they’ll
work shifts twice around the clock. Reds
and blacks scavenge indoors at night.
The meat-ants, green-ants, jumpers and
bulldogs are more wary of invading man’s
domain at night when it is lit. But they’re
nevertheless on the job after dark —flash
a torch where you’ve spilled sugar outside
the hut and you’ll see plenty of activity.
* * * *
“H.H.”: A pair of crows used to build
in a solitary sheoak on the otherwise
low, treeless Point Wilson at the entrance
to Corio Bay (Vic.) The tree was cut
down for firewood by the crew of a ketch,
and every spring since the black fliers
nest in the basket of a pile beacon half
a mile away out to sea.
* * * »
“Old Bushman”: Perhaps they’ve
picked up the habit from humans. Com-
ing along the Bordertown-Naracoorte
road (S.A.) the rabbits were so thick
ahead of, us on Padthaway station that 20
to 30 kept making for the one run
through the netting and automatically
queued up to get through.,
* * * *
“Espee”: The New Australian I’d en-
gaged didn’t know much about cattle.
While dipping my dry herd he was
rather rough at sending them in. One
young heifer, heavy in calf, was pushed
in rather quickly, so I told him to
break it down, as she was my best
springer. Shortly afterwards a young
bull in the mob entering with a rush
jumped almost the length of the dip and
got very little of the mixture on its
hide. The N.A. turned to me with a
triumphant look. “He your bes’ springer,
boss,” he said. “He jumped twice as far
as zatf ozzer one! ”
MARCH, 1950.
. • Ar V country: Lawson kicked its dust;
Ifr B cone mad here; the wheat crops
M-S S fn summer clouds are red with rust
well-done gardens drink the kitchen slops.
And inhabitants tell unlikely tales
°l deS !rfso dry that babes were washed with beer
nr lemonade-—but mainly lemonade. Gales
°5, Sr? But it’s true: it’s dry country here.
S now it’s mining! Has been raining-we’ve
Of days- *The average annual has fallen. Evefy-
LookTfor a break in the sky. “Fine weather
••At leasfwccan bath.” “It’s the atom-bomb.”
iin the house.” “But we’re not
“The sheep will get footrot,” says the old man,
leans track
And waits for the sun.
He knows it’s really dry country here
And the season’s just begun.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


s 2
FI
w
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States—Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
Specialised Knowledge of
Estate Management
'T'HE financial assets built up during the life-
time of a Testator may present, on his death,
a maze of difficulties beyond the comprehension
of the inexperienced executor.
Efficient Estate administration demands
specialised knowledge of legal, property and
probate matters. Sixty-five years of experience
in handling all Estate problems is available a
moderate charges, when the Union Trustee is
appointed as Executor either solely or joint y
with a relative or friend. .
Call for a confidential interview—or write tor
your copy of “Important Facts Concerning
Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
The
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St..
UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD. IMS)
Melbourne; 2 O'Connell Sf., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St.. Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Tbowoomba and Rockhampton 1
The WILDCAT COLUMN
Metropolitan Life
Department.
Assur-
Added to ance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1946.. 208*757 86,926 36,301 85,530 1,466,848
1947.. 225,912 85,142 36,501 104,269 1,571,117
Bonus reserve, £5OOO .. .. 1,576,117
From General Dept., £lOOO .. 1,577,117
1948. . 242,962 104,533 39,314 99,115 1,676,232
From General Dept., £4OOO .. 1,680,282
1949. . 264,806 101,732 44,412 118,662 1,798,894
* Includes divs. to shareholders, 1946, £2289; 1947,
£2482 ; 1948, £2744; 1949, £2937.
Industrial Department.
Assur-
Added to ance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1946.. 362,139 144,706 106,894 110,539 1,595,528
1947.. 376,364 152,502 108,113 116,748 1,711,276
Bonus reserve, etc., £6543 .. .. 1,717,819
1948.. 392,538 168,407 107,786 116,345 1,834,164
From General Dept., £3OOO .. 1,837,164
1949.. 405,385 160,481 112,569 132,335 1,969,499
•Includes divs. to shareholders, 1946, £2711; 1947,
£2500; 1948, £lB2O ; 1949, £1875.
After strengthening the basis of valua-
tion, and therefore the protection for
policyholders, the actuary’s triennial over-
haul of the business at the close of last
accounts disclosed a satisfactory increase
in the surplus available for distribution,
and bonuses to policyholders were jnain-
tained on an even keel. The amount
of new business written during the
year increased, a tight hold was kept upon
exes., there was a small drop in the net
rate of interest earned, the dividend to
shareholders was lifted from 10.6 p.c. to
Hi p.c., and a new subsidiary under-
taking, Union Investment Co., Ltd., was
acquired. All told the co. has continued
to make steady ‘progress, and the interests
of both policyholders and shareholders,
have been strengthened.
In the O.D. the basis of valuation of
with - profits endowment assurances
maturing up to 1965 was lowered
from 2i p.c. to a stringent 2i p.c.
Other participating contracts were
valued at 2i p.c, and non-participat-
ing policies at 2i p.c. The change in the
rate was made at a cost of £17,132, of
which £14,000 came from a special
actuarial reserve built up for the purpose.
In the I.D. the valuation rate was reduced
from 2\ p.c. to 2i p.c. at a cost of £24,690,
which explains the small drop (£839) in
the surplus available for distribution
(excess of life fund over actuarial liabili-
ties under policies) in this section. In
the 0.D., where the co. has to earn £9
for policyholders before shareholders are
entitled to a pound, the surplus increased
by £11,623:
r Surplus *
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1937 ~ £36,910 £13,242 £48,669
1940 .. 33,597 15,071 48,668
1943 .. 23,317 16,609 39,926
1946 .. 27,680 25,661 58,341
1949 .. 39,303 24,822 64,125
Bonuses to policyholders in the O.D.
ranged from 16s. p.c, on contracts less
than five years in force to 245. p.c. on
those 15 years old or more. In the I.D.
increments to the sum assured ranged
from 5 p.c. on five-to-nine-year-old
policies to 10 p.c. on 15-year-old con-
tracts, plus 1 p.c. for each additional
year. And there are further benefits re-
lating to waiver of premiums, while
bonuses continue, in old age. ,
New business put on the books last year
totalled £1,387,354 (up £133,581), of
which £736,927 (up £43,188) was indus-
trial and £644,427 (up £90,393) ordi-
nary. Total income of the two life sec-
tions combined was £670,191 (up £34,691)
—£542,528 (up £35,520) premiums and
£127,663 (down £829) interest, rents, etc.
The failure of interest earnings, etc., to
expand was due to what promises to be
beneficial changes in the investment port-
folio. Claims were well within actuarial
expectation. Including allowances for
depreciation and the staff fund but not
dividends, exes, in the O.D. took 20,3 p.c.
of net premiums and in the I.D. 32.7 p.c,,
practically the same as for the previous
year.
Including £4OOO transferred from the
General Department, £254,997 was added
to the statutory life funds, raising them to
£3,768,393 £1,969,499 ordinary and
£1,798,894 industrial. That includes re-
serves for bonuses, etc., of £10,582 in the
O.D. and of £BOOO in the I.D. In addi-
tion there is a general reserve of £lO,OOO,
which also belongs to policyholders.
In the general or shareholders’ section,
which handles the underwriting business
of the Metropolitan Accident Fire and
General Co., income was £46,980. After
paying claims and exes., etc., a surplus
of £12,159 remained, of which £4OOO was
passed to the 0.D., the remaining £8159
lifting reserves in this section to £91,646,
or £41,646 more than paid capital.
The net rate of interest earned on mean
funds (after deducting rates and taxes)
was p.c. lighter ,at £3 12s. Id. p.c.
It was to arrest this drift, and so
strengthen future bonus-paying capacity,
that the co. bought all but 8 p.c. of the
189,286 f.-p. £1 shares in the investment
co. The net price was 245. Bd. a share,
or £214,776, and at June 30 last there
were net assets with a written-down book-
value of £224,030 to represent it. The
market value of these assets, mainly Gov-
ernment securities, shares in public cos.
and freeholds (flat properties in and
around Melbourne), is substantially in
excess of their book-value. Last term
the new subsidiary netted £11,263, equal
to 5.9 p.c. on its own capital or 4.8 p.c. on
the price paid by Metropolitan. The deal
was a satisfactory one to both-parties.
It is reflected, together with other share
purchases, in a growth of £257,663 in
total shareholdings, etc,:
1948. p.c. 1949. p.c.
Freehold, etc. ..£247,066 6.6 £247,163 6.2
Public securities,
etc 2,637,019 70.8 2,688,406 66.1
Shareholdings, etc. 496,660 13.8 754,32)3 18.9
Mortgages,. .. 137,729 3.7 134,671 3.4
Loans on policies.. 125,987 3.4 182,362 3.3
Book debts .. 65,340 1.8 72,261 1.8
Cash .. .. 12,719 0.4 11,269 0.3
£3,722,520 £3,990,455
The amount invested in subsidiaries
(£258,927) increased by £215,020, and in
public cos. (£495,395) by £42,463. The
holding of low-interest-bearing Common-
wealth stock (£1,689,110) was reduced by
£172,689 net, and that of local-body
securities (£891,841) was increased by
£163,524. It all augurs well for an im-
proved return from investments.
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re*,, Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1942.. 19,045 10 p.c. = 19,400 • 200,389
To staff , fund, £5OO .. .. 199,889
From tax reserve, £3247.. .. 203,136
1943.. 16,410 13J p.c. = 19,400 )
To staff fund, £jjoo .. j
199,646
From tax reserve, £1297 .. .. 200,943
1944.. 18,165 13J p.c. = 19,400 )
To staff fund, £5OO .. )
199,208
From tax reserve, £340 .. .. 199,548
1945.. 21,335 15 p.c. = 21,825 7
To staff fund, £750 .. f
198,308
1946.. 33,114. 18J p.c. = 26,675 7
To staff fund, £lOOO ..(
5,439 203,747
1947.. 83,430 18J p.c. = 26,675 )
To staff fund, £lOOO .. f
5,755 209,502
1948.. 87,800 20 p.c. = 29,100 )
To staff fund, £l5OO .. \
6,700 216,202
1949.. 34,672 20 p.c. = 29,100 )
To staff fund. £l5OO .. j
4,072 220,274
This 46-year-old furnishing, furnishing-
drapery, chinaware and cash-order busi-
ness—it pioneered the c.-o. form of con-
sumer credit in Sydney—has a cheerful
history, strong reserves, high earning
power in relation to capital and a sound
financial structure. So the market, which
has always had a high opinion of the
scrip, prices the f.-p. 15s. shares at 665.
as against 565. a year ago. The increase
of 17.8 p.c. in the price compares with
increases of 5.4 p.c. in the Sydney Stock
Exchange index for retail shares and of
11.9 p.c. in the index for 34 selected ords.
m the pastoral, retail and industrial
groups over the same period. On a
20 p.c. div basis, which is the rate paid
for each of the last two years, the return
505 6 4d 1S 45 PC> Net taHBlble C ° Ver iS
In the cash-order section activity has
been and still is, hampered by central-
bank restriction of credit for this class
of trade. The board, however, makes no
suggestion that shareholders ’ might be
asked for more to help finance further
expansion of this or other sections of
the business. Nor is there any hint that
an early issue of bonus scrip or part
return of capital is contemplated, and
the div. is high in relation to declared net
earnings—the policy has been to distri-
bute profits as they were earned. Atten-
tion therefore focuses on prospects of the
20 p.c. div. being maintained, and of the
possibility of other benefits later on.
Last year there was again a “substan-
tial” increase in turnover, mainly in the
furniture and furnishing sections. It was
the official pruning of gross margins and
sharp increase in wage and other costs
ftat were responsible tor the slip of
£2628 in net earnings. The £34,672 of
profit, which was written after allowing
£17,890 (down £1239) for taxation and a
modest £290 for depreciation, was 23.8
?a C a °. n A api A I ,f aga i ns ; 25 ' 6 ' 23 ’ 22,S -
fis R £J° thepresent£l4s,s0 ° inf - p -
The immediate outlook favors main-
tenance of a high level of earnings, and
the housing position, growth of popula-
hon and Government policy in connection
with immigration suggest there is a large
potential demand ahead of the furniture
and furmshmg trades. What the effective
demand will be depends upon many
things, including what happens in con-
comes!* au'ot S&Soit
high levels by recent and current infla-
tionary pressures. So the 20 p.c. div.
cannot be looked upon as a regular thing
indefinitely. Still, the business has always
earned satisfactory profits in the past,
even during bad times.
The co. trades well within its own
resources;—
1939. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £194,000 £145,500 £145,500 £145,500
uti" 75 j! r ° es 2f 67 «|' 4 «
staff fund .. e’,730 9,608 10,399 n’vB3
Property and
stock 1 ’ ec ”! 1 3 1 6 4 ,’0 2 7 4 4 7 1 51,437 67 388 89*885
Hire a|reements 119,372 85,491 123,709]
,1 ’ 861 ‘ B ’ 99,i 44,509 1 198,613
tures, etc... 50,935 45,710 45,452 43,922
7,986 2,218 2,188 -
curities .. 76,817 90,697 74,591 50,ni
Cash * etc> •• -SingSon. 2,085 160
To carry an extra £22,497 of stocks and
£30,265 of hire agreements and other
book debts, the co. went to its bankers
for £13,017, added £4492 to the trade
debt, etc., and reduced the holding of
Government securities; hv £24 480 last
oovernmem securities ny tZ4,4W last
term. Allowing for the final div., the
improvement in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£271,467) was £2756.
General Industries. Ltd.
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
/-———Dividends ' Toße Be .
Feb., Profit. 7 £ p.c. Ord. £ serves, serves,
1941 112,206 20,851 i2jp.c.= 79,646 11,709 244,521
1942 111,386 20,851 12$ „ 79,646 10,889 255.410
1943 99,505 20,851 10 „ „ 63,717 14,937 270,348
1944 90,239 20,851 10 „ „ 63,717 5,671 276,019
1945 95,560 20,851 10 „ „ 63,717 11,992 288,011
1946 95,933 20,851 10 „ „ 63,717 11,365 299,376
1947 110,496 20,850 io „ „ 63,717 25,929 325,305
From tax provision, £46,000 .. .. 371,305
1948121,146 20,85010 p.c.= 63,717 36,579 407,884
Share premiums, £156,389 .. ~564,273
From tax provision, £21,500 .. .. 685,773
1949 138,778 20,851 10 p.c.= 71,834 40,093 631,866
1950 168,912 20,851 10 „ „ 78,765 69,306 701,172
The fortunes of this big holding co. and
its two operating subsidiaries (Metters,
Ltd., Sydney, and Metters K.F.B. Pty.,
Sydney, Melbourne AdeS* factorie s at
the group turns oui a Perth
baths, gas-heaters, builders/ stoves .
enamel-goods, radiators and iu rdwar e.
tncal appliances. And there k ther elec '
ate, Matters (N.Z) Ltd an ass °ci-
the other side of the Tasman^? 1 ? 8 0n
6 P.c. on it5£64,937 of capiSi UU&*
The number of new 4y-
in Australia during 1949 w as S
increase of 9.3 n c on th* „ • ,843 > a n
total, and
tion when the year ended In Q °., Struc '
sales of the group’s products were sS’
lated by a strong replacement h St mu ‘
So the subsidiaries had no difficult
disposing of their increased output I,!*
possible by recent additions toVeeSf
and plant and by a strengthening 0 f th $
labor force, which, however stfll 5
4h SUf | Ci T ?T ber of ski| W wortt
The effects of the nation-wide coal ? [
m mid-1949 were partly offset by t •
own auxiliary power units. OkmL
steeply Pri “ ° £ laW “““Kst
Nevertheless after allowing unspecified
amounts for depreciation and tS“
t^A aC , Udmg an unex Pi a ‘ ne d addition of
£6243 to reserves, aggregate net earnints
were £30,134 stronger at £168,912 best
yet. Most of the extra profit came’from
larger trading in Victoria and South Aus-
traha ; in N. S. Wales results were less
fovorable, owing to industrial troubles.
Th f f* 6 0 8 > 912 covered pref. requirements
and 18.8 p.c. on average ord. capital as
against 16.4, 15.7, 14, 11.7 and 11.7 p C
back to 1945. The div. has been steady
at 10 p.c. for the last eight years, and at
p.c. for the six years before that.
The £69,306 (41 p.c.) of the year’s profit
ploughed back into the business lifted
reserves to £701,172, equal to Us. Id.
per 12s. 6d. share.
The directors say they are “fully alive
to the building programme to which Aus-
tralia is committed, and are planning
further extension of the cos,’ products
associated with the building trade.” What
investors need*to remember is that post-
war trade has developed in sheltered
markets on the basis of relatively high
costs and prices. Of the two the costs
structure is the less flexible, and there-
fore likely to cause most trouble in the
long run. The solution lies in more pro-
duction more economically, but until
inflationary pressures are halted, or
reversed, this will be difficult to achieve.
Given an adequate supply of raw
materials, enough labor and freedom
from industrial disturbance the group is
well-equipped to win whatever profits are
to be had from the trade.
Last term there was a net growth of
£24,574 in freeholds, £30,145 in plant and
£92,166 in book debts:—"'
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital.. 935,041 935,041 1,085,415 1,085,415
Creditors .. 137,5 82 2 07,4 16 179,400 177,227
Tax reserve .. 222,9G2 229,019 296,958 813,
Staff fund .. 15,8 7 4 20,00 0 25,000 30,000
Freeholds .. 342,620 363,213 412,317 436,891
Plant . . 433,656 483,092 530,453 660)698
Stocks . . 557,428 770,846 837,467 801,340
Book debts . . 164,488 198,895 826,611 ’.jq
Shares other cos. 24,630 24,630 >.„
Cash .. 156,855 1,113 138,463 1W«
Only £16,922 was added to the amount
coming to trade creditors. The years
improvement in the more-or-less iq
surplus (£908,276) was £91,458, which ug-
gests that the allowance for depreciation,
etc., was not skimped.
With one eye on the economic ba '
ground and the other on theP • es fte
of a lift in the div., the market pn<*s
ords. at 375. 6d.. givmg an
return of 3.3 p.c. on alO P-c. _
or 4 p.c, on al2 p.c. distnbu •
prefs. at 31s. 6d. yield 4.4 P- • j lc j
tangible cover (book-value) is £3
prefs. and 235. 7d. ords.


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
«ead Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
p • DIRECTORS;
«• KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. iTUNLOP.
,re > Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
UJSfijSEED
The Machinery
People
281 Latrobe St., Melbourne. MU 2321
0 Engineers’ Machine Tools. 9 Portable
Electric Tools • Woodworking Machines.
• Circular and Band Saws. • All types
Saw Repairs.
til
wait
an
/
laiostJ/aa*
a
WSntm
yj
HSH
7
A
%
o
001
81
7
/
A
u
A
m
7
77
8.1. Slagwoool is the modern insulating material
which proofs the whole building against extremes
in temperature.
8.1. Slagwool is easily applied to new or old struc-
tures. Live in absolute comfort Winter and Sum-
mer; line your home with 8.1. Slagwool and save
on fuel costs too.
For full particulart call, write or phono • • • '
nommssm
• / (oKtC
o/*¥!2s
n a
7/ fa Ira
PTT.I
LTD.
Phones: SYDNEY, 8X3584: MELBOURNE. MU3506
BRISBANE 83604 ; 3,1 ISA) LTD ADELAIDE
Con. 7257; 8.1. (W.A.) LTD. PERTH L 2107
TO HELP YOU
GET YOU
PREFECT SEDAN
*yf*
r % 7
SHIPMENTS OF ENGLISH-BUILT
PREFECTS ARRIVING IN INCREASING NUMBERS
lo supplement local production of Australia’s most popular 10 h.p. Sedan
Maintaining Prefect top-value tradition, the English - built
bodies are of a very high standard of workmanship, finely
upholstered and well - equipped. The English Prefect is
priced lower than * any other make of 10 H.P. Sedan.
See your FORD Dealer NOW I
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.) Reg. Office: GEELONG. Vic.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
k° n Dividends-^
Pref. O r< t. ® e "
F eb., i2 *r se r-’
1941.. 34,003 9,000 25 000 100,392
1942.. 7sp. c .
94 022 9,000 15,000 100,412
1943 " 24 366 9 000 15,000 100,778
1944.. 34, 124 p.c.
„ o B 689 9,000 25,000 103,467
1945.. 9 000 25,000 115,292
1946.. 1*706 9 000 25,000 124,997
1947.. -itlnpd add n, £5000.. 129,997
Unexplained dd 143j()88
53 558 9,000 25,000 162,646
15,526 9,000 25,000 177,172
’ After deducting goodwill (now
Att £16,659).
With the exception of the early
j 930’s, this Melbourne retailer
has always been a good profit-
earner and satisfactory dividend-
paver. The co. specialises in
tailoring, mercery and sporting
goods, the store is at one of the
busiest corners of the city
Bourke- and Elizabeth-street,
opposite the G.P.O.—the trade
is mainly on a cash, basis, and,
for the most part, profits have
been distributed as they were
earned.
Because it had nothing in-
vested in bricks and mortar, the
co. was able to get along for
many years on a small capital
(£70,000) and pay handsome divs.
—an average of p.c. for the
five years to the close of ac-
counts in 1925, sweetened with
£lOO,OOO of bonus scrip in 1923.
then, to buy the freehold and
put up an 11-storied shop,
£lOO,OOO of 9 p.c. pref. capital
and £129,000 of mortgage money
were gathered. The ord. div.
averaged 10 p.c. for the five years
to 1930, followed by an average
of 3| p.c. for the next five slump
years, 9.-5 p.c. for the five years
to 1940, 10 p.c. for the next four
years, and then a steady 12i p.c,
for the half-dozen years to the
close of last accounts, when re-
serves £177,172 in excess of
goodwill had been accumulated.
Under pressure of the infla-
tionary boom, profits have nearly
doubled over the last six years.
However, benefits from the big
jump in turnover last term were
more than offset by the official
slash in gross margins and sharp
rise in costs. The slip in net
earnings was £5032 —after allow-
ing £1541 (up £534) for depreci-
ation and something for taxa-
tion. Still, the £48,524 of profit
was enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 19.7 p.c. on the
£200,000 of ord. capital com-
pared with 22.2, 19, 17.3, 18.4,
13.8 and 7.6 p.c. back to 1944.
On net tangible shareholders’
funds the year’s profit was 10.1
P-c., a high rate' which suggests
lively trading, good buying and
a tight hold upon controllable
outgoings.
The current term opened with
sales at a higher level than a
year ago. The unhealthy aspect
of the position is the top-heavy
costs structure, which makes
maintenance of turnover increas-
mgly dependent upon inflated in-
comes. However, there is noth-
mg at the moment to indicate
mat the 12| p.c. div. is likely to
be interfered with. The market
Prices the ords., covered by
3/s. Bd. in net tangibles, at
9d, as against 495. 9d. a
>car ago. The return at 465. 9d.
js 5.3 p.c. on a 12| p.c. distribu-
-10 n - The pfefs. seldom appear
° n the market.
There is nothing to worry
a oout in the finances:—•
1948. 1949. 1950.
oa P ltal • ■ 300,000 300,000 300,000
Tax orovla - ’ ’ m -102 128,396 141,314
p r provisi on.. 30,000 35,000 30,000
Plant rt pt r . et °’‘ ‘ 441 ’ 708 444,456 444,690
s hareholrft„ ” 1>839 2,693 8,424
Stock B ldingS ' ■ 4 - 188 4,188 4,188
book dphta •• 12< ’ 472 1 7 0,832 177,012
Cash Ip s •• 18 ’ 126 18,490 16,217
’ _ •• 28,857 383 17,955
£99000 CS lU v e 8 mortgage 0f
below ’ Stocks appear at or
el ° W COst - Allowing for final
divs,, the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£24,870) was £23,561
stronger.
Mount Morgan, Ltd. (Q.)
The drilling campaign in the
area near the old Sugarloaf mine
at Mt. Morgan has disclosed an
extension of the ore-body which
will more than double total ore
reserves as well as enhance the
investment possibilities of the
co.’s scrip. Consulting geologist
H. Conolly says not less than
10,000,000 tons of payable ore
are indicated in this extension,
which can be mined by a con-
tinuation of the existing open-
cut. The ratio of overburden to
ore is two to one as against
three to one in the old deposit.
The new deposit is made up
of high-grade lenses within a
low-grade environment, which
makes Jit difficult to assess aver-
age values for the lot until more
exploratory work is done. The
low-grade environment is ex-
pected to average about I.sdwt.
gold and 0.5 p.c, copper. Only
two of the high-grade lenses are
so far known. The first plumb
is in the Sugarloaf ore-body,
where not less than 600,000 tons,
averaging s.sdwt. gold and 1.1
p:c. copper, have been developed.
The second has been revealed by
drill-hole C 12, which to a depth ’
of 450 ft. has gone through 405 ft.
of ore averaging 3.Bdwt. gold
and 0.5 p.c. copper. This lens
is known to continue to a depth
of 600 ft. and is 500 ft. across.
To date six holes have been
drilled, and another 15 are to
be put down.
Measured ore reserves at
June 30, 1949, were;
f —Assay—
Gold, Copper,
Tons. Dwt. p.c.
Sulphide ore ..5,212,406 4.00 1.98
Indicated material 1,980,786 1.64 0.47
Here the indicated material lies
within the perimeter of the open-
cut, extension of which is
expected to make available (in
addition to the new ore-body) a
further,9B3,ooo'tons of second-
grade ore, averaging I.46dwt.
gold and 0.5 p.c. copper. And
if the price of gold holds at its
present level and costs don’t rise
too high about 2,000,000 tons
overburden, previously marked
for discard, will come within the
limits of payable material.
For the year to June 30 last
co. netted £128,494, which
covered the pref. div. (£21,000)
and 30.7 p.c. on the £350,000 of
ord. capital, of which £56,500,
that brought with it £401,700 of
share premiums, was gathered
shortly before the close of
accounts. The new money was
wanted for more diesel shovels
and better drilling and crushing
equipment. The profit was won
from treatment of 770,000 tons
ore, averaging 2.33dwt. gold and
0.54 p.c. copper. A 6d. div. (20
p.c.), first for seven years, went
out in Sept., 1949, and another
Is. per 2s. 6d. share was paid at
end March last.
A much better showing is
promised at the close of next
accounts, which will benefit by
a windfall profit of £200,000-
odd, because 45,0000 z. of the
previous year’s gold production
was unrealised when the price
of the yellow metal rose follow-
ing the Sept, 1949, currency
devaluations. Current mine out-
put is running well ahead of last
year’s figures.
The market for the ords.,
which had dropped to 9s. 9d. in
July, 1949, shot up to 16s. after
the lift in the price of gold, ad-
vanced to 19s. by end 1949, and
to 235. 3d. following announce-
ment of recent drill disclosures.
Mainly because of lower out-
put and the continued rise in
costs, and partly because of the
easier trend of metal prices and
the piling-up of concentrates at
the mines'; owing to transport
difficulties, the North and South
cos. at the Barrier (N.S.W.) have
each cut their rate of interim
div. for the current term. South
will pay 2s. per ss. share on
June 21 and North 2s. 6d. per
ss. share on June 22. For the
year to’June 30, 1949, South
paid an interim 2s, 6d. and final
45., a total of 6s. 6d. (130 p.c.),
and North 3s. 6d. interim and
4s. final, total 7s. 6d. (150 p.c.).
During the first and second
halves of 1949 London average
prices for lead and zinc were;
Six Mths. to Lead. Zln ; c.
80/6/’49 .. £SIO4 15s. £S9B 10s.
81/12/’49 .. 97 11 76 2
Quotes for both metals weak-
ened early in 1950 and then
strengthened .again. Last week
lead stood at £S9I 10s. per ton
and zinc at £S99 10s. per ton.
North’s scrip, which touched
85s. in the market early in 1950,
stood at 775. 9d. last week.
South’s have been relatively
steady around 50s.


®r ’V'3'r ; ;? yj.
-ir* '>s'*’ : &y--■[ ?'•■' . ; $v •£;'
? 5
IT ■• ■.; •■*: ':;.w . : ..: :! /.< , ■ ■
iL' “IDS
iSSBi •">
stiW
& '
PVSS
tm
my .
rest
s
%2
%
Underground
i
m.
m
&
Cane grubs do great damage to sugar crops by eating
the roots of growing cane. However, they are now
being controlled by a new chemical called benze
hexachloride”. Scientific control of cane pests an
diseases has done much to increase yields and cu
down the costs of producing sugar.
- •• ■■■■%
I
x ;
m
Sugar cane is not hollow like bamboo A
and heavy with sweet juice. Machines date
it are being developed in Queenslan • met jipds
farming implements and modern agricu tu rg t 0
enable Australia’s 9,000 independent cane I
produce sugar as efficiently as anywhere m
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LT •
Business. Rollery. etc.
Share Prices Lower
After a period of exceptionally
high spirits, Australian share-
markets became rather depressed
last week, the threat of coal and
other industrial stoppages fol-
lowing on the introduction of
the Communist Dissolution Bill
being accepted as the chief fac-
tor in the change of mood. But
the change might have been the
result of almost anything else.
There has been no very reason-
able factor at work in the many
fits of temperament that the
market has exhibited over the
past two or three years. Sup-
port for the market in view of
the inflation in prices and values
is reasonable, especially in view
of the high level of export prices.
The continued rise in costs is,
equally reasonably, disturbing.
The long-term view must be that,
under free enterprise, share-
holders will do well out of
industrial shares, and investors
generally allowed some com-
pensation, in profits and divi-
dends, for the fall in value of
the Australian currency.
Stocks worth attention in last
week’s depressed market were
Bradford Cotton at 41s, 6d.
(down 4s. 6d. on recent quota-
tions), B.H.P. at 525. 9d., Thirl-
well and McKenzie at 275. 6d.,
cum rights, and Masonite Cor-
poration at 575.
There is no sharemarket indi-
gestion at the present time.
Investment funds are plentiful.
With a return to industrial sanity
in view in the distance, prospects
should be generally sound, but
all stocks should be selected on
their merits and with regard to
prospects in their particular in-
dustries.
Steamships Trading Co.
Steamships Trading Co., with
headquarters in Port Moresby
and branches elsewhere in New
Guinea and adjacent islands, has
made a remarkable recovery
over the past five years. Put on
the market by a Sydney share-
selling in 1936, the
then-17-year-old concern in-
creased its capital from £54,176
to £80,459 in two years (ords.
were offered at 305., prefs. at
285.), and in 1938, when the
scrip was listed, paid capital
was £100,850 in 50,000 7-10 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 50,850 ords.
Another 27,000 ords. were then
issued at 275. each, and a further
15,000 ords. were offered at par
before the end of 1938, carrying
paid capital up to £142,143.
The co, is interested in river
and coastal shipping, merchan-
dising, and it owns some plan-
tations. It paid 8 p.c. divs. in
1939 and 1940, 7 p.c. in 1941,
and in 1942 and 1943 (Japanese
occupation) nothing was received
by ord. shareholders, though
prefs. were attended to. Ords.
got back on to the div.-list with
2} p.c. in 1944; 5 p.c. came
along in 1945, 7\ p.c. in 1946,
and since then an all-round 10
p.c. has been paid, and capital
had grown to £250,000 at the
end of 1949. Last month another
66,666 ords., in the ratio of one
for three, were offered to ord.-
holders on the register on April
24. The new issue carried a
premium of 10s. a share.
The rights were selling at
13s. Id. last week, equal to
435. Id. for a fully-paid share.
The yield at that figure would
ultimately be £4 9s. per cent, on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. Last year
the co. earned 24.7 p.c. on
average ord. capital. Profits
were assisted by the general re-
equipment and post-war rehabili-
tation going on in the Territories,
a stimulus to trade not likely to
continue for ever. General
trading in New Guinea is
recovering, and should re-
ceive an impetus from the
change in Government. Eventu-
ally the co.’s coastal shipping
services may become
valuable. It seems to have
been well enough treated on the
score of war-damage compensa-
tion.
Production and Progress
Philip D. Reed, president of
the International Chamber of
Commerce and chairman of the
General Electric Co., U.S.A.,
recently told the United States
council of the 1.C.C.:
It is not generally understood that
social and economic progress must
be twins. Government subsidies, un-
employment and old-age insurance,
health benefits and all the rest are
made good not by the promise of the
Government but by the production
of the country In a steadily-
rising national production of goods
and services lies the only hope of
social progress....
I submit to you also that the man
in the street needs a clearer under-
standing of how increased produc-
tion is achieved. Everyone knows
that a worker in any up-to-date
manufacturing plant today produces
very much more in a week’s time
than he did, say, 25 years ago. Now
how was this accomplished? Does
he work longer hours? No. The
fact is that he works much fewer
hours in a week than he did 25 years
ago. Does he work harder? No,
it is almost universally a fact that the
industrial worker today is required
to expend less physical energy per
hour of work than he did a genera-
tion ago. Well, is the industrial
worker today more skilled than his
father was? Again the answer must
be no. Indeed, in America, and I
expect elsewhere, there are consider-
ably fewer skilled craftsmen per
thousand industrial workers than
there were years ago.
Well then, what did account for
the very large increase in the
worker’s weekly output? As we
know, but the man in the street does
not sufficiently understand, the
worker’s arm has been “lengthened’
by his employer providing him with
power tools and specially-designed
production equipment which, with
less effort and less skill and with
shorter hours, enable the worker to
produce many times what he could
produce with his hands or obsolete
tools. This means that money, the
savings of investors or the ploughed-
back portion of corporate earnings,
must be spent to buy the tools
and equipment which the worker
operates
The whole subject of incentives
must be reduced to simple, under-
standable terms. It is incentive, plus
freedom of action, that distinguishes
a free from a slave State, a vital,
growing economy from a static one.
The worker, the management, the
investor and the customer —all must
be provided with an inducement, a
lively self-interest in doing their part
more fully and effectively. The
fundamental point is that people
exert that extra effort or risk their
savings on a promising but unproved
venture in the expectation of reward,
and our free democratic system must
provide adequate rewards to all
participating elements if the system
is to survive. No economic system
known to history, including recent
history, compares in vitality, efficiency
or productive potential with a system
of competitive enterprise based on
individual initiative.
Oil in Queensland
“Petro”: The deep test-well by
the Shell Oil Co., or, more
correctly, by its subsidiary, the
Shell (Queensland) Develop-
ment Pty., Ltd. —abbreviated to
SQD —was spudded-in at the
end of . April after a break in the
foulest weather on record in the
Rolleston district. The con-
tinuous rain had, in fact, brought
all movement of equipment,
provisions and personnel to a
standstill, except by emergency
air-transport.
There can be no question as to
the thoroughness of the air-
mapping, surface geological,
scout-boring and geophysical
work done by SQD since 1940
preliminary to the location of
its deep test, but it is unlikely
that the co. will agree with the
statement, even at a guess, that
“probably 6000 ft. may be close
to its ultimate depth” (B.
3/5/’5O).
In the official release to the
Press, dated May 1, Shell’s
general-manager for Australia
(E. N. Avery) states:
The drilling plant and equipment
at the site will permit drilling to a
depth of 10,000 ft. Whether we do or
do not drill to this depth will depend
on a variety of conditions, geological
and mechanical, and they can only
be assessed as the work progresses.
....It is too early to say whether
oil is likely or not. We are satisfied
we are drilling on the best site in our
location, but it is still a virgin area
as far as oil in commercial quantities
is concerned.
The SQD experts will prob-
ably agree that the best hopes
for oil are somewhere within the
marine facies of the Queensland
Permian, but, if publication
were intended, they would be
more likely to confine them-
selves to a statement that the
conditions most favorable to the
generation of petroleum appear
to exist within the marine series.
Commercial oil production is
quite another matter. For this
not only is it necessary to have a
sound structural trap, incorpora-
ting beds laid down in an en-
vironment suitable to oil forma-
tion, but the trap has to include
strata of sufficient lateral extent,
thickness, porosity and per-
meability to provide a safe
haven for the petroleum pro-
duced and segregated.
The writer is unaware of any
satisfactory outcrop evidence by
which the position, or even the
existence, of such strata within
the Queensland Permian marine
beds can determined. Even
SQD, backed as it is by the
world-wide data and experience
of Shell, has to employ the ex-
pensive method of deep-test
drilling to get an answer.
Maoriland Hotels
Trust control of hotels, the
latest idea in public enterprise in
Maoriland, seems to be getting
away to a bad start. With build-
ing costs at peak and still rising,
trusts haven’t a ghost of a
chance of competing with private
enterprise, entrenched on a pre-
war cost basis, which averages
out at less than a third present
levels. Hard-headed licensed
trade interests figure out that the
outlay to build, equip and furnish
hotels in New Zealand at in-
flated 1950 prices and wages will
run v into at least £l5OO a guest
bed, and might reach £2OOO,
against £5OO for existing hotels.
of which the latest built are nn
more than 10 years old rS*
are heavily loaded against ? dds
control, apart from the haUcao
of inexperience. lca P
Maoriland todav has t,™
?h°em S ’ t With Several hundred of
them, known as “tied houses'-
f n f ed r by br ? wef y iutS's
and therefore disposed to Du t
rather much emphasis on the ba
the expense of gjj?
but this has operated to £
down tariffs. Brewery cos. have
been feeling the squeeze of ris
mg overheads lately, with profits
on a downtrend at some poi nts
and regard a net return of 5 D 1
before tax, on bar and other
revenue as a satisfactory yield
under ruling conditions.
In all cases where hotels show
better-than-average profits i n
N.Z the key to results is
found m low capitalisation
If capital were double or
treble the present figure
they’d be sunk. In face 8 of
this have trusts any chance of
floating, let alone
The Invercargill Licensing Trust
first in the field, in 1944, didn’t
have to shoulder post-war build-
ing costs, because residential
hotels were there ready for it to
take over and set up business,
but others won’t have such a
push-off. Yet Invercargill hasn’t
been able to distribute more
than £13,000 in grants to help
local community progress in
more than four years. As over-
rated prospects of handsome
gains for local benefit are the
big carrot for those who lean
towards trusts there’s likely to
be disappointment ahead. The
picture painted is rose-tinted and
unpeal.
Although MX. badly needs
more hotel accommodation, no
brewery co. wants to build now.
Four cos. that were ready to
unite their forces four years ago
to put up a new hotel in Auck-
land at a cost of £350,000 have
got cold feet over the project, as
estimates today put the cost at
double this figure.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN'INSURANCE COMPANY
Established IMS
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS; _ .
0. o. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD ,(yice-Ch«man).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
LO, MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION,, General Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
*
•TRUSTEE
ATTORNEY
They Deserve
Full Protection
fTSe Hasty appointment o! a private executor Is a retake
that ‘ls still far too common. Who can guarantee that he
will be capable of carrying out his duties efficiently I
Poor judgement. Inexperience, bad health, business reverses
or advancing years inevitably lead to faulty administration.
Since it ks vital to look far ahead, you will be well advised
to appoint Burns Philp Trust Company Limited as your
executor or trustee. This sensible de'cision protects your
beneficiaries from avoidable errors in the administration
of your' estate.
Putt details of the Company’s services are given in "Hands
That Never Leave the Wheel" A complimentary copy of
this interesting booklet will be forwarded on request. If
you care to call, a senior officer will be readily available
to discuss important ' matters with you.
DIRECTORS: -
Jame* Burn* Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley U*
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton. FJr.IA.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament
Head Office: 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TCL. BU 5901 , BOX 543, G.P.O.
IMMEDIATE SEATS
AVAILABLE TO
ENGLAND
VIA U.S.A. OR CANADA .
u
I
mm
iff
ONLY 3% DAYS BY BCPA
Book now, and you can leave by the fastest
service to the United Kingdom in |Ust a few
days. You'll arrive in London 3£ days later
(actual elapsed time 77 hrs. 45 mins.). En
route, you'll visit Honolulu *as well a‘s America s
greatest cities, and over the "Southern Cross
route you'll relax in the sleeper-equipped
DC-6, if you prefer it, you may break your
journey at any poirit along the route—for no
extra fare. '
NO DOLLARS NEEDED
No dollars needed by through passengers— •
BCPA provides a dollar allowance for meals,
accommodation and transpoit.
s,MGIi 1ft585
« CTU, ' ,
line Martin Place,
«*> ’4SST&&
Sydney. rn — 1
(
THE FASTEST
SERVICE
the finest
MUTE
fytitidfi $m/ic J$A&/ned <3&£.
-
USE BCPA AIR CARGO
.THE FASTEST PACIFIC SERVICE
r*Uide Co®l
%W’ g abba”: Nobody seems
.0 Sect
M affte port of Glad-
Ce and buyers are wary,
ronsequently coal-hauhers are
Ending down at present, and
S road from the coalfield to
She port is in a disgraceful con-
Queensland's Mines Minister
Moore says there are 6000 tons
on the Gladstone wharf which
the south can have if it wants it.
Why doesn’t it want it? Firstly,
the Melbourne wharfies turned
it down because it was too dusty
to handle, next the Victorian
Railways tested it and were dis-
appointed. Senator McLeay,
Fuel Minister, confirmed the test
report. Lord Mayor Chandler
says Brisbane doesn’t like it. City
Electric Light Co., in its last
annual report, complained of
being compelled to take Callide
coal instead of a full comple-
ment from the Ipswich field. It
informed shareholders that it
was going to cost Brisbane con-
sumers dearly to take this
legally-enforced supply from the
Callide. And while Mines Minis-
ter Moore is looking for cus-
tomers he is reported to be ask-
ing Mr. Menzies to include
Queensland in the subsidy given
to the temporary purchase of
Indian and South African coal..<
“There is no doubting the
quality of Callide coal. Thou-
sands of tons burnt in the power-
houses of Brisbane have given
most satisfactory results,” says
Minister Moore. The Electric
Light Co.’s report is a standing
rebuttal of this statement.
Instead of such soothing
syrup the Minister should issue
a statement sponsored by his
technical officers as to the
representative quality of coal
from the Callide. Picked samples
of bright coal tan be expected
to give 12,000 B.T.U.’s, but it is
only run-of-mine coal that the
consumers get, and from the
Mines Department’s own pub-
lished reports on the field he will
hnd his own officials give 10,400
to 10,500 B.T.U.’s per pound of
Callide coal. These are in keep-
ing with the opinions of the
Melbourne wharfies and the
Victorian Railway Department,
and fall well behind Blair Athol
(11,500 to 12,000) and Newcastle-
cwm-Greta with 13,000 to over
14,000 B.T.U.’s.
A washery will give an ac-
ceptably high thermal fuel, but
that is not in sight. It presents
the problem of high prices being
demanded for a very moderate
quality of run-of-mine coal, and
this problem will not be solved
by politicians such as the Minis-
ter for Mines.
Bradford Cotton ords. have
weakened by more than 3s. 6d.
over the past two or three weeks.
The scrip is worth more than 41s.
6d., however; it was not over-
priced at 465., even though the
co.’s period of greatest capital
expansion may be past. Capital
is now £1,853,992, but the full
benefit of the new plant, for
which much of the last lot of
additional capital was raised, has
not yet been felt, nor has the
effect of the shifting of opera-
tions partly to the country.
Bradford is the biggest textile
concern in the Commonwealth,
and shareholders eventually
should see 12j p.c. divs. It was
to improve earning-power that
the new capital was raised.
Latest share prices are at the
lowest level since 40s. was
accepted during a share-slump
in 1949.
*! * ♦ ♦
Thirlwell and McKenzie,
centred in the expanding indus-
trial town of Port Kembla,
should be worth watching.
Primarily a constructional en-
gineering concern, with an ade-
quate and economical power-
supply of its own, the co. has
other interests, which are still*
expanding. It controls a timber
and joinery business, and
through a subsidiary carries out
building contracts. Overall and
McCray, makers of boring plant
and equipment, are also con-
trolled by it. A new department
of T. and McK. caters for the
wholesale and retail hardware
trade in Wollongong. A fresh
share - issue is being offered
to those on the share-register
on May 12 one new ord.
for two, involving 150,000
new shares altogether. This will
raise paid capital to £457,000, of
which £6OOO is in 6 p.c. cum.
par. prefs. Dividend at present
is at the rate of 6 p.c., and so
far visible reserves are not large.
The ords. are at 275. 9d., cum
rights, and are of interest mainly
for their ► future profit-earning
possibilities,
* * * *
W. E. Bird is a comparatively
small (£ 100,000-capital) Sydney
concern that has some good
agencies English porcelains,
earthenware, pottery, glassware,
threads, yams and tableware. It
also has an export trade. Prior
to 1949 paid capital was £6OOO,
an obvious undercapitalisation.
Last year £75,000 of new money
was put up by old shareholders
and £19,000 of reserves capi-
talised. The public was then
offered 45,000 shares by old
holders at 275. 6d. each. Average
profits by the co. on a public-co.
basis were £13,766 a year for the
five years to June 30, 1948, and
for the three years to that date
£11,990. In the term to June , 30,
1949, £14,227 .was netted, equal
to 14.2 p.c. on paid capital, and
a 10 p.c. div. was paid. These
earnings had been subject to
heavy tax charges, which should
be lighter during the current
term. The market expected
something better at the time, in
view of the greater capital at
work, and at one stage the shares
fell to 265. With the end of
another financial term approach-
ing interest in the scrip is
quickening, and last week there
were dealings at 325. 6d. If the
10 p.c. div. is repeated the yield
would be 6.1 p.c. at that price.
» * * *
Metropolitan Cement shares,
which were fluttering about the
225. 6d.-235. mark for a while,
fell to under par last week fol-
lowing disappointment with the
balance-sheet and annual report.
At the meeting a start on pro-
duction in June or July was fore-
cast. Several shareholders asked
questions regarding the co.’s
expenditure on the undertaking
since Dec. 31 and the extent to
which the bank would advance
further money. (On Dec. 31 the
overdraft was £487,821.) The
chairman replied that he thought
the bank would stand by the
company up to, the production
stage. Arnold S. Taylor has been
appointed managing-director at
£2500 a year, rising- to £4OOO
after production commences.
BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY.
Btrp. close its books at the end of this month. With
A I and S. figures included, it had, up to January 31, pro-
ved more steel than in the corresponding period of the
previous year, thus indicating a recovery from the P ro^ uc ’
Son lost in the June, 1949, coal strike. Steel output m
February, March and April this year should have been above
the average of the preceding months of the. financial period.
Tn December, 1949, the co. was allowed to increase the prices
nf iron and steel by £2 a ton by the various State authorities.
The vast operations of B.H.P. and its subsidiaries are
indicated by this summary of results achieved over the nine
years to May 31, 1949:
B.H.P. and Subsidiaries.
v Tax N.S.W.
Ended Depreciation. Provision. Net Profit. Steel Production,
May, £ £ ons-
itui 2 164 905 1,963,076 1,584,348 1,644,000
" 2,404 658 1 897 423 511.139 1,697,000
1041 " 2 459 538 1 366,650 885,750 1,626,000
SS mw u33; 4 82 umjn w»
1945 .. 2,538,289 1,226,602 1,030,266 U 46,000
ioaa 2 131 853 1,087,364 775,543 1,054,000
iolt ” 2 058 972 2 057 550 1,730,813 1,315,000
1948 2’385’029 2’,047,95'8 1,840,410 1,278,000
1949 .‘I 2,399;817
20,997,118 14,617,489 11,354,668 12,560,000
* Year ended June 30.
The depreciation allowance of just under £2l million is
greater than the book-value of all fixed assets at May 31 last,
and taxation provision has been in excess of the disclosed
profit The £11.3 million of profit shown includes income
from' investments ; net earnings from operations were £9.3
million over the period. , . . „ , .
Looked at from another angle: Depreciation allowed in
nine years is greater than present subscribed capital
(£18,513,312). The position is obviously very strong from
both the financial and industrial viewpoints, and shareholders
have yet to be fully compensated for the hard work done by
B.H.P. Given adequate, supplies of coal, profit-earning
capacity would be very much increased.
The fully-paid shares were weaker at 525. 9d. last week,
the contribs. at 435.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
• Admiral Radford, Commander-in-
Chief of the U.S. Pacific Fleet, and Mrs.
Radford arrived in Sydney from Mel-
bourne in their own plane last Sunday.
They were guests of a Consular reception
given in their honor by the Consul-
General for United States, Orsen Neilsen,
and Mrs. Neilsen. On Monday night
they were present at the Coral Sea Ball
arranged by the Australian-Arnerican
Association. By now they are nearly back
at their home overlooking Pearl Harbor.
No matter what the year may bring in
the way of good season or bad season, the
annual story of the C.W.A. is always one
of achievement. On the opening day of
the 1950 conference more than 1000
women crowded into the Assembly Hall
in Margaret-street. They were delegates
and friends, and not even the thick warm
atmosphere caused one of them to budge
till the last word of the speeches had
been uttered. The Governor, Lieut-
General John Northcott, launched the
four-day big talk, and presented an illus-
trated map of England to president Mrs.
G. L. Brooks. This was a “thank-you”
for C.W.A. food parcels sent to England.
It carries the signatures of Lord Cowrie
and Lord Wakehurst, and of Sir Ronald
Cross, former High Commissioner for
U.K. in this country. The map had been
brought as part of her “thank-you”
mission by the Countess Howard of
Effingham, who was present at the open-
ing.
From John Metcalfe, director of the
Public Library, listeners learned that
Mexico is pronounced “Meyico.” His
talk was entitled “Things of Primary Im-
portance Down Mexico Way.” But the
only crop he stressed was that of maize.
He told of a valley in much the same
situation as Canberra, where there are
365 churches—one for each day in the
year. They were built, of course, during
the Spanish regime, when there were no
building-material controls. He told of
libraries and schools and clinics being
opened, and of gentlemen of Mexico City
who, apparently, just for the fun of it, go
riding in the equivalent of our Centennial
Park, dressed as cowboys, sombreros,
silverplated chaps, lariat and all.
At half-past-six this evening all
Sydney’s youth will be dashing out to the
Royal Prince Edward Yacht Club at Point
Piper, At the end of the journey
is a cocktail-dance arranged by the junior
social committee of the T.B. Soldiers,
Sailors and Airmen’s Association, Presi-
dent of the committee is Mrs. Frank Dun-
worth. Mrs. Arthur Harrison is the
treasurer. Committee-members are
Pamela Allsopp, Judy Armstrong, Sue
Other Gee, Prue McCauley, Mary Mayo,
Barbara Moore, Juliet Winchcombe,
Marcia Parle and Mrs. John Rischbieth.
Mrs, Stuart Westley, Ann Berryman and
Anne McCauley are the secretaries.
Sitting, furred to the ears, in Sydney’s
draughty and unheated Town Hall, this
Letter has often wondered qt the thin,
almost diaphanous frocks worn by women
artists. But at the opening of Pnina
Salzman’s season the answer was self-
evident. By the time this lovely young
pianist had ended the Liszt Sonata in B
Minor she was obviously hot to steamy
point. Pnina puts as much force and
dynamics into her playing as any man.
Her dressing, though, is completely
feminine. For this first concert she wore
a cunningly mixed Paris confection of
white taffeta and black tulle. The top
of the bodice was of black tulle and had
slim, just-below-the-shoulder sleeves. The
full white skirt had panels of the black
tulle narrowing into points towards the
waistline. A scattering of hand-
painted black leaves and black flowers
was another touch that meant real money.
When you stepped down from George-
street into the Savarin, newly arrayed as
a continental cafe, on its opening day
last week, the atmosphere was all flowers
and music. But there had been, even as
in Eden, a serpent. Of a company of
young waitresses engaged the day before,
a mere handful had turned up for the job.
In spite of that, the pastries were carried
on wooden platters from table to table for
tea-drinkers to choose from. The cups
of fluted white Wedgwood commended
themselves. So did the music, soft and
insinuating—music for the romantic to sit
and listen to, for the determined con-
versationalist to ignore.
Today for the last time you can visit
file Art Without Epoch exhibition in the
Education Galleries. The committee of
the Contemporary Art Society sleuthed
out all these lovely paintings owned by
art-lovers within the metropolitan area.
They have made a wonderful haul. Not
only that, but they have manned the show,
had a succession of lectures going each
day, have explained the different schools
on the walls to groups of college girls.
Seen one afternoon last week, George
Duncan, wife Alison Rehfisch and Margo
Lewers were enthusiastic over the response
to the society’s effort. There is a flavor
about this exhibition that takes the gazer
back to the little gallery in the Luxem-
bourg Gardens. Here a Lippo Merrtmi
Madonna of the fourteenth century
breathes serenity. Gainsborough’s Green
Boy is close to the entrance. The com-
mittee did well in making the corner in
Boudins. The admission is the price of
a catalogue. Is,
During the C.W.A. Conference last
week the association’s essay prize was
presented to Mrs. A. E. Hudson, of Wil-
cannia, for her entry “A Country
Woman’s Day.” This is a pithy account of
her normal day’s round. It includes giving
her husband a helping hand on the
property, teaching small daughter from
correspondence lessons (the older ones
are now of boarding-school age), making
her own and her daughter’s clothes, taking
part in her children’s games and sports
when they are home for the holidays.
Norton Trevaire photo.
Consul-General for the. United States
Orsen Nielsen and Mrs. Nielsen have be-
come very popular in Sydney during their
three years’ stay with us. But on May
29 they and their children Edward and
Ann leave Australia and for a time return
to their home in Maryland. Before they
go Mr. and Mrs. Nielsen face a formid-
able array of farewell-parties and con-
sular receptions. They will spend one
weekend in the quiet of Canberra as
guests of the Ambassador for U.S., Pete
Jarman, and Mrs, Jarman.
What with one thing and another Mrs.
Y. H. Levin, wife of the Charge d’Affaires
for Israel, had a busy time last week.
There was the opening of her exhibition
of paintings in David Jones’s Gallery by
the Minister for External Affairs, Percy
Spender. The paintings are of Palestine
and Sydney, and among the first are
glimpses of old buildings and old
quarters, and in this city the charm of Port
Jackson has captured the artist. Among
the many friends at the opening was
pianist Pnina Salzman. Mrs. Levin also
took active part in the International Ball
arrangements. At the end of the week
she and her husband gave a reception in
their home for the pretty pianist from
Palestine.
The International Ball won the success
stakes as the most -colorful and the best-
attended ball since war days. It packed
the Trocadero with more than 1400
dancers, and the national costumes worn
by many guests added a glow to the night.
There was also an International Food Bar
where the connoisseur could pick out his
favorite dish from many lands. Nobody,
so far, is reported as having breasted the
bar demanding a hot dog. President of
the ball was Lady Anderson. External
Affairs Percy Spender and Mrs. Spender
were blithe among the dancers. Mrs. K.
H. Rahman, whose husband is Trade
Commissioner for Pakistan, wore a richly-
embroidered gold sari. Dean of the
Diplomatic Corps, Dr. Kan Naikuang,
and his wife were in the official group;
so were the just-departing U.S. Consular
Orsen Nielsen couple. The Mayoral
O’Deas were among the noted. So was
Mrs. R. H. Fernandez Yayle, in her full,
tiered frock of gold-embroidered stiffened
black organza.
From Melbourne
It is a sad reflection on the shortness
of human memory that the march of the
three Services through the city streets to
commemorate the Battle of the Coral
Sea —the battle that saved Australia from
the horrors of Oriental invasion—should
have been viewed with such tepid in-
terest. U.S, Pacific Fleet Admiral Rad-
ford took the salute at the Town Hall,
and with him on the dads were Admiral
J. Collins, General S. F. Rowell, and
Air Marshal George Jones. At the con-
clusion of the march the official guests
were entertained at the Town Hall by
knight Harold Gengoult Smith and his
lady, who were deputising for Lord
Mayor Disney and Mrs. Disney.
A battleship set in a sea of red, white
and blue flowers formed the setting for
the official table at the Coral Sea
luncheon, which was held in the Town
Hall as part of the Coral Sea celebrations.
Guest-of-honor was the visiting C.-in-C.
of the U.S. Pacific fleet. Admiral A. W.
Radford. Mrs. Radford was unable to
be present through a slight indisposition.
Federal president of the Australian-
American Association, R. G. Casey, and
Mrs. Casey received the guests, which
included heads of the Navy, Army and
Air Force. Mrs. Casey topped her grey
suit with a steel-blue cloche finished with
a twist of velour. Mrs. S. J. Fletcher,
wife of the U.ST Consul-General, wore a
navy jacket-suit and a feather-trimmed
beige hat. Mrs. Adrian Perry, wife
of the U.S. Naval gained
contrast for her beige gaberdine suit
with a tomato-red high-crowned hat.
Mrs. Frank Gillespie, whose hus-
band is Col. Frank Gillespie, U.S.
Army Air Force combined
black jacket-suit and scarlet velour hat.
Mrs. George Jones, wife of the R.A.A.F.
chief, wore a pale-gold straw hat with a
deeper gold wool frock. Mrs. J. J. Booth
came with her Archbishop husband in a
blue blouse and plum-toned suit. Mrs.
L. J. McConnan offset her beige suit with
a nigger-brown velvet hat.
Born in Melbourne, Biddy Sewell was
educated at Shelford Girls’ Grammar
School and Melbourne University. She
joined the staff of the Institute of Indus-
trial Management, leaving that to become
secretary of the Melbourne Little
Theatre. At present she is busy with
plans for the Bal Masque which the
Little Theatre players will hold at the
Delphic next Friday.
“Where’s Charley?” the musical-comedy
version of “Charley’s Aunt,” had its
premiere almost ruined when, just before
the end of the first act, smoke began
drifting into the theatre. However,
incipient panic was quickly scotched and
everything was quickly under control
again. In his curtain speech, Tommy
Fields, who played the lead, said it must
have been Arthur Askey’s gag-books
burning. The funds of the British
Memorial Appeal will benefit consider-
ably from the tickets sold by the com-
mittee. President of the entertainments
committee, Mrs. L. R. Buxton, wore a
brown-and-goid-checked taffeta gown.
The organiser, Mrs. A. Isaacson, rustled
in rust-shot taffetas. Mrs, Maurice
Nicholas allied a black-and-white-striped
skirt that was patterned with a yellow
flower with a jacket of yellow taffeta.
Mrs. Jim Buchanan’s bouffant gown was
of old-gold taffeta. Anne Mclntyre, who
was one of the ticket-secretaries, wore a
gown and short jacket of turquoise-blue
silk patterned in Chinese pagodas. Mrs.
John Robertson, also a ticket-secretary,
had nareow gold stripes on her white
taffeta off-the-shoulder gown.
Mrs. A. G. Silk’s dark-green taffeta
gown gleamed under a mink coat. Mrs.
Bertie Hotchkiss served her black crepes
with mink. Gloria Ladd’s waffle taffeta
ballerina frock was dove-grey. Her
mother, Mrs. W H Hnr f
grosgrain lapels finished
sequins on the jacket of blaclc
dinner suit. Mrs. David
skirted gown was Parma 11 s fu k
Frank Martin’s to C
f ow “ J a high-necked yoke rS ? ep °
toned tulle. A white-fox J. of flesh-
r^/affeiawas^^o?; s “
Furs, glorious in texture anri
mg design—the work of Mr and xr Strik '
Stern—were on show at B ‘
tho Melba Memorial Sound S
There were full-length and
coats of black-and-white
teamed with black leather for sport s ” w . k a ?
For formal occasions mink, Scotch mS
biue-, silver- and platina-fox f u ?s S
lovely coats and stoles. Unusual weS
midnight-blue and deep-cyclamen mjf
stoles. The most striking fur forevS
wear was an opera cloak of black-ai/
white fox cut in eight alternating circular
stripes, pointed to mid-calf length at the
back and just below the waist in from
Fur was used as trimming on a short
black, shmly-cut frock for the cocktail
hour It was finished with a draped
shouider-cape edged with platina-fox
When the mannequin undraped the cape
it fell from the back of the waist to form
a fur-bordered train; the bodice of the
gown showed one shoulder bare and the
other in a brief sleeve. Worn with the
furs were gowns of elegance. One of
bronze French net had the bodice and
waistline trimmed with chenille. Its full
skirt was fashioned of layer upon layer
of net, the strapless bodice being finished
with narrow ruchings of the material. A
striking gown of black-and-blue tissue
faille had the skirt drawn up to-one side
to a full hip-drape, finishing in a wide
bow of the material. The skirt of a gown
of red taffeta, which had a silky black
sheen, was spirally draped, finishing in a
peaked fish-tail train ; the bodice was cut
into two high peaks.
Attending the parade was the president
of the appeal, Mrs. W. L. Russell Clarke,
whose draped gown was of soft orchid-
mauve georgette. Mrs. Allan Spowers.
whose husband is hon. treasurer, wore
pale-amber moire taffetas. Mrs. Douglas
Stephens wore with her grey shot-faille
gown a black tulle, long-sleeved jacket
scattered with glistening black beads. Mrs.
Bruno Stern’s frock of black brocade
showed the Chinese influence; the skirt
was slit to the knees. Mrs, E. Cullen
wore a gown of cinnamon-brown faille
with an overskirt cut into petals and
lined with deep-cream taffeta. Mrs. Eric
Avery was in black velvet; her sister, Mrs.
Iris Clarke, in heavy white satin. Mrs.
lohn George had a matching bolero for
her dove-grey gown. Mrs, Peter Lynchs
strapless gown of black tulle was em-
broidered with midnight-blue sequins.
Sir Frederick and Lady Hay, who leave
in the Imperial Star for England were
farewelled at a cocktail-party at No.
Darling-street by Mr. and Mrs. ■
Joachim Myer. The hostess s gown
black velvet had a cream lace collar w
extended over the shoulders to ou
the deep-cut neckline ; her small bla
was finished with veiling. The
honor was also in black, but he ■
trasting hat was of pink and finish
a sweep of black coq feathers, ‘jW
Lionel Spencer added a hip- len B* . ck
coat to her black ensemble, h _
velvet hat was finished lth R g aC k
velvet ribbon. Mrs. H. H. -5 eV Greer’s
taffeta was satm-stnped. Shuly
string-toned pixie hat, which flc» * “
pheasant-feather, was worn with a «
toned crepe frock and dycd-e
Mrs. Robert Loder wore a ,£1 hat-
moire jacket-suit and b i ac ® faille
fs ey rrsp*- **
ai C The sound of the *****
baying of hounds pmk-coa habits
and huntswomen in unpe ‘f g^ s at
moved off in the first of the n at
Gaklands, Brother fox became
home, but some hares and nne those who
the spoils of the chase. Am S oU ting
jumped fences and enjoy 2C-
were Mesdames T. Mmogu. , horse .
alister and R- Hickey, wet®,
women. Among the y° un S . ■ Cox
Mrs. David Knox, Mrs ; J ° foUo wed the
Pam Knox. Those who f “ inC i u ded
Hunt in the more prosaic Cottrell)
Mrs. Douglas Faulkner of accom .
Mrs. A. E. Shifiiday, who w a G Ban ,
panied by daughter Wan , small
ford, the Henry Steels and their Mfs Co
children, the Michael an( j daughter
stance Day, with son Ne nmngstone, f rolTl
Deanna, and Diane aD d on;
Perth. After the meet, w bere
looker* gathered at and rS<
the Master, G. A. vv
Watkins entertained.


iAvm
17 JEWELLED
SWISS MASTERPIECES
With the
noH-magnetltt
escapement
sut
3 s
2$
tAVf/VA
watches
Founded 1852
VIUIERT * SUISSE
LW5
Legal Notice.
HARRIS VICTOR KEYES DECEASED.—
Pursuant to a Decretal Order of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in
its Equitable Jurisdiction, dated the 16th
day of December 1949 and made in a
Suit No. 758 of 1949 entitled “IN THE
MATTER OP THE ESTATE OP HARRIE
VICTOR KEYES LATE OP ROZELLE
MENTAL PATIENT DECEASED INTES-
TATE Between Permanent Trustee Com-
pany of New South Wales Limited, Plain-
tiff, and Kenneth Charles Chalmers, Iris
Vivian James, Oliver John Gersbach and
Cyril Joseph Gersbach, Defendants”
whereby it was referred to the Master
in Equity to enquire as to who were
the next of kin of the abovenamed de-
ceased at the date of his death and whether
any of them are since dead and if so
who are their respective personal repre-
sentatives. NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
that all persons claiming to be entitled
under the said enquiry are to send by
post prepaid to Messrs. Hill, Thomson and
Sullivan at the undermentioned address
so as to-reach them on or before the
seventh day of July 1950 their full
Christian and surnames, addresses and
descriptions, and full particulars of their
claims, or in default thereof they will
be excluded from the benefit of the said
Decretal Order unless the Court or a
Judge thereof or the Master in Equity on
application otherwise orders. Note: Such
claimants may include one MARY J.
ATKINSON a daughter of Joseph and
Mary Atkinson, or persons claiming under
the said Mary J. Atkinson. Claimants are
to attend personally or by their' Solicitor
or Counsel before the Master in Equity
at the Supreme Court, Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, on Friday the twenty-eighth day
of July 1950 at 10 o’clock in the fore-
noon, being the time appointed for adjudi-
cating upon the claims. A claimant not
residing in New South Wales must send
with particulars of his claim the name
and address of a person in New South
Wales to whom notice to the claimant
can be sent. Dated this Fourth day of
May, 1950. Signed HILL THOMSON &
SULLIVAN, Solicitors, of 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney, New South Wales, the solicitors
for the abovenamed plaintiff the admin-
istrator of the estate of the abovenamed
deceased.
9jr iUAle#/
For over 100 years every drop
of Dewar’s Whisky has been
distilled and blended in Scot-
land, by acknowledged Mas-
ters of the Art.
Dewar’s famous * White
Label” Scotch Whisky never
varies ... its distinctive char-
acter, mellow flavour and rich,
heart-warming qualities have
made it world renowned.
DEWAR'S
"White Label”
SCOTCH
Qf ne\teh' !
'' : V"' . ’ -I'.
awar
50 MED
SOOOIJ
•»>
Priie
50 Gold
and
Prize Medal*
o:aO
. "White Label
A Fine Scotch Whisk*
* OF RARE ACE,
John Dewar & Sons h
DISTILLERS
'** HttjmarKtl. S.WI
pe lStu>»
•wwirrao wholly distilled, matures add blended »
From Israel.
It is easy enough to find fault
with the paintings by Ruth Levin
a t David Jones’s Gallery,
Sydney. The skies of Jerusalem
and the waters of Sydney are an
opaque and meaningless
formula; nothing, except build-
ings, which are comparatively
easy to handle, is very well
drawn; the portraits are shallow.
Everything is laid on hastily
and broadly with the palette-
knife ; and one suspects that
Mrs. Levin’s range and capacity
as an artist are limited.
But what lovely color there is
in all of it; how rich and strik-
ing are the quick sketches ; how
warm a feeling for life the whole
exhibition displays! Grace,
vitality and genuine gaiety lift
this quite beyond the common
run of art-shows.
The slums of the “Old
Quarter” of Jerusalem glow with
orange and rpd and disappear in
green hills—a most refreshing
painting after the familiar dingy
descriptions of Sydney slums.
And when Mrs. Levin (who is the
wife of the Charge d’Affaires for
Israel) turns her attention to
Sydney’s “The Rocks,” she re-
minds us that Sydney sandstone
in a slum setting, vivid with
afternoon light, can be equally
colorful.
From Canberra.
Douglas Dundas’s oils at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries,
mostly landscapes from around
Canberra and Sydney, are the
pleasant work of a capable
painter, but most o£ them re-
mind you of other Australian
landscapists, and one’s reflection
must invariably be how much
better the others would have
done them.
“The Brindabella Range,” for
instance, in locality if riot in
treatment, is close to Gruner’?
“Murrumbidgee Hills”; but
where the Gruner landscape,
subtle with heat-haze and smoke-
haze and rolling in light and
rhythm, was an epitome of Aus-
tralian summer, “Brindabella
Range” is a dead-flat panorama
against which the crest of the
hills stands stark and clear like
a knife-edge. There is no atmos-
phere, no distance ; only the hot
color of the dry grass.
“Twin Hills,” in a heavier,
more pliable style, is reminiscent
of Roland Wakelin; and again
less powerful than the exemplar.
“Hillside in Summer,” with its
trees against the skyline and’ its
sheep grazing among brown
grass, is the sort of landscape we
have had from Gruner, Howard
Ashton and Lance Solomon;
its ancestor, a long way back, is
the “Bent Tree” of Corot. The
delicacy of Gruner’s treetops
melting into the sky is not to be
found in it; nor the hard virility
of Howard Ashton’s noons ; nor
Lance Solomon’s profoundly
intimate acquaintance with the
gum-tree. But for all that —a
pleasant and capable painting.
From the Kimberleys.
Australian artists who go into
impossible deserts and outlandish
mountains always have this
paper’s sympathy, and the West-
ralian painter Vlazio Zanalis,
whose landscapes are at Anthony
Hordern’s, Sydney, has been to
some extremely remote places in
the Kimberleys.
He has camped alone in
gorges frequented, in their dif-
ferent spheres, by wild cattle,
fish and crocodiles; he has sat
alone for nine days in an abo-
riginal burial-cave, full of rock-
paintings and old bones.
His record of these wild ex-
peditions is, on the whole, rather
tame; geographically informative,
pleasant enough if you just want
a literal transcription of red
rocks, shining billabongs and
green trees, but without distinc-
tive quality. However, there are
three or four exceptionally in-
teresting paintings of caves and
cliffs decorated by the abo-
rigines in which Mr. Zanalis has
done something new and, if one
allows for the fact that the live
aboriginals included in some of
them are not very convincingly
depicted, something genuinely
good.
The outstanding work, a most
intriguing collection of abo-
riginal turtles, corroboree figures,
symbolic men standing on their
heads, sharks, emus and what-
have-you, all set in harmonious
colors of the rock, is entitled
“Aboriginal Rock Paintings,
Fossil Downs Station.” The
aboriginals who painted these
strange figures are believed to
have been killed off, in the dim
past, by an invading tribe.
A few of the straightforward
landscapes which have something
of the same quality—“Billabong,
Mornington Station,” “Junction
of Fitzroy and Han Rivers,”
“Morning, Forrest River ” and
two pictures of baobab-trees —
succeed because the artist has,
tnore-or-less, confined himself
to the simple forms and simple
colors he uses in the cave studies.
From Bedarra Island.
At Stanley Coe’s Gallery, Mel-
bourne, John Buesst, an ex-
pupil of Justus Jorgensen, has
been showing studies of Bedarra,
the island he owns and lives on
on the Barrier Reef, plus some
sketches of New Guinea. In
many of his paintings he has
captured the character of the
tropical landscape very nicely,
“Pandanus and Rock” and
“Bungalow, Dunk Island” being
two of the most effective.
In these days when so many
critics-complain of pupils being
dominated by their masters, it is
refreshing to see an artist experi-
menting.
"Whereas Charley?"
This, at the Tivoli, Melbourne,
is our old friend “Charley’s
Aunt,” provided with an ornate
new suit, an accompaniment
which often sounds something
like music, some catchy num-
bers, the environment of the
dreaming spires of Oxford,
choruses of dons and male
undergraduates in cap and gown
and female ones who undress to
their foundations in the sacred
precincts of the Ashmolean
Library, some not very remark-
able dancing and some admir-
able fooling by Tommy Fields,
brother of the celebrated Gracie,
a fetching young Australian
comedienne in Babs MacKin-
non, who is really clever, and
makes one lyric, “The Woman
in His Room,” a dramatic and
sentimental masterpiece that
brought enough tears to the eyes
of the firstnighters to put out a
fire that started in a dustbin in
the Tivoli lane and nearly caused
a in the theatre.
The fire occurred during the
performance of the “Pernam-
buca” ballet, which was excit-
ing enough without it, being on
a more splendiferous scale than
anything in the previous history
of the theatre. Between these
interruptions the play moved on
with lightning speed and sparkle,
and, although its wit would be
more appreciated in London,
where Oxford is a hallowed in-
stitution, than in Melbourne, the
piece ought to hold the Tiv.
boards for a long time on its
pulchritude and nonsense.
Phina Salzman.
From a reservoir of nervous
energy and strength, the presence
of which in this slim young
Palestinian would scarcely be
suspected, Pnina Salzman drew
heavily for her performance of
the Liszt B Minor Sonata at the
first of her Sydney recitals.
Feminine fripperies have only a
brief place in this dynamic work,
and only briefly did they intrude.
Indeed, throughout it was a
wonder how so masculine a style
could come from an artiste so
very feminine.
In Cdsar Franck’s “Chorale,
Prelude and Fugue” the spiritual
significance which invested prac-
tically everything this composer
wrought was strongly brought
out in playing that flowed grace-
fully. Mendelssohn’s “Varia-
tions Serieuses” was given with
a keen appreciation of the vary-
ing moods on the elegiac theme,
the ones of gentle pathos being
finely spun.
The major work in the second
concert was Beethoven’s “Wald-
stein” Sonata. The tempestuous-
ness of the opening movement
was nicely sustained, the
rhythms of the Rondo lilting and
exuberant. The Chopin G Minor
Ballade was shot through with
an exhilaration and force which
made it a true epic. A suite by
the Israeli composer Ben-Haim,
a blending of Oriental and Wes-
tern idioms, was lightweight
fare of only moderate merit.
Another Orchestra.
At a wave of Verdon Wil-
liams’s baton, still another sym-
phony orchestra appeared at
Melbourne Town Hall, this time
under the aegis of the Arts Coun-
cil of Australia, Victoria Divi-
sion, to introduce Manfred
Clynes, returned from foreign
studies. The orchestra was
small; the players made up for
that with the sensitiveness of
their playing. Mozart’s Concerto
in B flat major was a wise selec-
tion. The beautiful larghetto,
said to be the father of all
slow movements, was delicately
rendered, and the pianist revelled
in it. The local composer,
Robert Bridges, got a look in.
His “Diversions on a Dance
Tune” were full of excited move-
ment.
Improvement in quality marks
the autumnal outburst of the
Victorian Artists’ Society. Les-
ley Sinclair’s “Lonsdale Street,
Summer,” and her “Fishing
Boats and Jetty, San Remo,”
are the two most sensitive land-
scapes in the exhibition. They
have a depth and glow about
them that come from a deeper
observation. H. Wright Har-
rison’s “Spring in the Square,”
with its blossoming tree and the
buildings in the background, is
well rendered, and Dorothy
Higgins’s “Wet Saturday Night”
looks wet. Esther Paterson’s
“Beaconsfield Parade” is brightly
painted. Ken McDonald’s
“Trees” shows an intelligent
grasp of the problem of light
and shade, and W. G. Grant’s
“Chinamen’s Huts” is a good
sketch. Charles Bush hasn’t
penetrated further into his sub-
ject than the surface of the can-
vas in “Jetty, Barwon Heads,”
and Alan Warren is being merely
fashionable in his “Figure.”
W. F. Stapleton’s “Still Life”
is an excellent piece of painting.
* * * *
Usually confined to lecture-
rooms, Robert Greene’s old
comedy of necromancy, “Friar
Bacon and Friar Bungay,” was
boldly and brilliantly transported
to a Brisbane audience by pro-
ducer Margaret Collins arid the
Queensland University Dramatic
Society. Robert Kable was
effective as Miles, the student
who is finally carried off to hell
by one of Bacon’s fiends, and
Beverley Rogers as Margaret,
the maid of Fressingfield, spoke
the verse beautifully.
* * * *
Campoli closed his account
with Melbourne with a largely-
attended final concert at the
Town Hall in which the
Beethoven “Spririg” Sonata was
the highlight. The composer
had his eye on the pianist as
well as the violinist when he
wrote this graceful epitome of
summery emotions, and, in fact,
the piano sometimes looks as if
it is going to be the virtuoso in-
strument, As associate pianist
Margaret Schofield played her
role with a magnificent reticence
which allowed Campoli to use
those delicate pianissimos he is
so fond of. That there is plenty
of body in his playing was shown
in the vigorous performance of
“Nigun,” from the “Bal Shem”
of Bloch, with its strident
Hebraic clamor.


The FLAX-PULLERS
By
R.S.LINDSAY
THE alarm woke Derek. After a time
he reached over and switched it oft.
His legs were leaden, and he could
feel them becoming heavier and
heavier, a creeping paralysis that
threatened to engulf him. He lay and re-
gardcd his struggling better self with
nausea.
“Tod! Tod!” he called. ‘Time to get
up.”
The ticking of the clock swam and
floated in his brain fast losing conscious-
ness.
“Tod!” he called again.
They both slept.
A thump of boots on the floor woke
Tod, and out of the comer of his eye he
saw Bill go past.i He heard the door
crash as Bill kicked it open and he sat up
hurriedly, swinging his legs over the side
ofj the bunk just as Derek did the same.
They sat and looked at each other
guiltily for a second, then both slipped
to the floor and began to pull on their
clothes. .
“Bill’s first out every darn morning,
Derek said with annoyance, and Tod
nodded smilingly.
The door crashed to again as they went
out, and Richard stirred in his sleep, roll-
ing over on to his back and lifting a
tousled head. He smiled sleepily at the
three empty bunks and sank back again.
BY 5.30 they were on the road down
from the hills. The sun that had
come up over the rim of the sea like a
palely-flashing mirror was now a huge
golden ball of fire. The sky was a cloud-
less blue,* - brushed with the dew of the
night. The Canterbury Plains stretched
northwards, chequered in sunlight and
shadow. Between fields of wheat, oats,
peas and clover the outfit rumbled.
On the road, Bertha, the big 40-horse-
power tractor, pulled everything. First
the galley, a hut on wheels, painted
cream with tarred roofs and crooked
stove-pipe chimney; then the five-ton
wagon on which was canned fuel for the
tractors. The dinghy where they slept
was next. A flax-puller was hitched to
the back of the dinghy, and the small
tractor and second flax-puller were last,
towed by a wire rope hitched to the puller
behind the dinghy.
The morning air was like a draught of
wi«e. Derek drew his breath in sharply,
and his heart sang and sang. “ Twas here
we met. And here, and here. We loved,
sir, used to meet. How mad and sad and
bad it was, but how it was sweet,” he mis-
quoted happily to himself. He was
driving Bertha, and very proud of his
achievement. Down a winding cutting in
the shade of English trees the outfit shot,
then out into the sunlight of the open
plains.
Tod, scouting ahead in his car, was
posted at the foot of Kelland’s Hill. He
stood stiffly to attention as they went past,
his hair over his forehead, part of his
comb showing for a moustache as he held
it to his lip, and the other arm stretched
out in ,a Nazi salute. Derek and
Richard, who was sitting on the mud-
guard, returned the salute in their best
German style, and laughter bubbled
joyously in Derek as he changed into top-
gear. Bertha barked viciously as the
governors opened, and blue smoke hung
above the exhaust-pipe. Derek swerved
the tractor, and, looking back, saw Tod
goose-stepping to his car.
Just before the line of gear straightened
up again, Derek saw Bill hunched over
the wheel of the small tractor, his face set
in a mirthless grin, Derek shivered, and
queer little cold thrills ran up and down
his spine. He looked at Richard, perched
on the mudguard, and shouted; “I’m
scared of Bill, aren’t you?”
Richard considered surprisedly, and
then shook his head. “What the hell’s
the matter with you?” he asked. “Have
a smoke.”
Derek took the proffered pouch and lit
his pipe while Richard steered. The rising
sun grew hotter. Derek twisted in his
seat, back against the mudguard, and
smo'ked his pipe sensuously in the
warmth. Through Levels, past Washdyke
to the crop at Seadown, they rolled at a
steady 12 miles an hour.
LL out, all out, fallout,” sang
Tod cheerfully.
Dishcloth in hand, Derek took a last
hurried look' round the galley. Inside
was pleasant and airy. The ceiling was
painted white, the walls cream and the
table, stools, cupboards and window-sills
an apple-green. At the end near the slid-
ing door was a coal range with safes on
each side. In the other end and in both
walls were large windows. Sfiining tin
mugs hung from a beam in the roof,
while plates and cutlery on the top of the
dresser gleamed in the sunlight.
Derek hung the dishcloth on a hook
beside the doorway, moved the rifle from
under it, pulled the oven-damper out,
flicked straight the tea-towel on the rack,
snatched up his hat, and fell down the
steps. He lay dazedly on his back staring
up at the blue sky. A rush of summery
scents swept over him. The dog Stump,
head on one side, was staring inquiringly
at him, and suddenly a frog said
“Gawk.” Derek began to giggle help-
lessly* Tod and Richard helped him to
his feet, and Tod asked, “Enjoy your
trip?”
The three walked round to the puller at
the back of the dinghy where Tod had
backed Bertha into position. They
grasped the drawbar of the puller while
Tod slipped the pin from the hitch and
said “Right-oh, men.” They swung the
drawbar of the puller towards the tractor.
Derek could feel the puller dragging more
and more heavily until there was a pain
in his shoulders. The air about the hedge
was fragrant with gorse blooming.
Richard, his head thrown back, eyes fast
shut and face screwed up, was holding
his breath. The bow in Tod’s legs
widened perceptibly. The puller was only
a few inches from the tractor hitch when
they gave in conceitedly and it dropped
to the ground.
“Somebody else wasn’t trying either,”
said Tod, his eyes twinkling.
He tripped Derek with his foot and
sprawled him on the ground, where they
wrestled furiously. Stump barked with
delight, A shadow fell across them, and
they scrambled foolishly to their feet.
Bill was bent over the puller, silently
waiting.
“I thought you were going to lift it
yourself, then,” said Richard sarcasti-
cally.
Bill glanced consideringly from the
puller to Richard.
“I’ll bet you a pound I can,” he said
slowly.
“The devil you will.” Richard was
taken aback.
“Money up or shut up,” said Tod
quickly, holding out his hat.
BILL took a pound-note from his
money-belt and put it in the hat.
Richard scratched his head in comical be-
wilderment. Bill made a movement to
take his money back, but Richard turned
on his heel and walked to the dinghy.
Tod leant against the tractor wheel with
his hat between his feet, and began to
roll a cigarette as though work had
stopped for the day.
“Think he can do it?” Derek asked,
taking his tobacco.
“Take a good man to do it; take me
all my time,” Tod replied modestly. “I’d
risk a fiver that he can’t,” he added
quietly, holding the match for Derek.
“It weighs over four-hundredweight on
the drawbar.”
Richard returned from the dinghy and
put his money in the hat. He squatted on
his heels and fondled Stump’s ears.
Derek glanced at him with a rush of good-
fellowship. He noted his battered old hat,
pushed back as far as possible, his strong
white teeth and whimsical grey eyes, his
tight nap trousers a little too short for
him, and his perpetual air of always being
a little behindhand. Richard looked up
and caught Derek’s eyes. They smiled
knowingly.
Bill stepped to the puller. He wore
shorts, boots and Army gaiters. Tenta-
tively he tried the weight, and the muscles
bunched on his shoulders. He jumped
over the draw bar and stood a moment
perfectly still. Tod was whistling beneath
his breath, and a lark sang high above.
Bill grasped the drawbar. His legs were
slightly bent. Steadily he exerted his
strength, and little beads of perspiration
stood on his forehead.
Tod caught his breath. The silence was
fraught with strain. A muscle cracked.
Bill’s arms were trembling as he
straightened his legs. The very wind held
its breath, and Derek could hear Bill s
watch ticking. His eyes were quick.
Slowly, slowly, the drawbar came off the
ground. Bill leant back and tugged the
puller towards the tractor drawbar.
Tod broke the spell by leaping forward
to put in the pin. Bill was white in the
face, and little blue lines ran from his ears
to the comers of his mouth. A long
bayonet scar on his side showed an angry
red against the rest of his tanned body.
Derek’s eyes followed the mark up from
his hip to where it ended in a jagged scar
against .a rib. Bill bent down, took the
money from the hat and walked away
without a word. A pulse beat jerkily at
the edge of his curly black hair where he
had been wounded in the head.
Derek felt sick and threw away his
cigarette.
ALL day the wind blew from the north-
west, with a great arch of clouds
above the Alps. Round and round the
sea of flax they went, with the machines
pulling a yard-wide strip every round.
The standing flax was guided by the
divider-bars to the drums. The stalks
were nipped between • the pulleys and
drums, pulled from the ground and con-
veyed to the binding-table by rubber-
belts.
Round and round till their senses were
drowned in a world of sound. Click,
click” went the armsi of the binders, and
the pullers tossed out the sheaves with
rhythmical regularity. Gulls from the
shore soared and wailed above the oil and
fumes of the tractors. For Derek all the
noises were muted to a soft orchestial
background to his thoughts. ‘ To-day s
the day, to-day’s the day,” said the puller
as the wheels went round. The sunlight
fell through the flax, passing along the
binding-table, in an ever-changing dance
of patterns. Yet to Derek they were very
peaceful and strangely inducive of sleep.
A clod that Tod threw from his supply
on the tractor crashed against the tin
guard in front of the conveyor belt, wak-
ing Derek with a start. He tumbled off
the puller seat, and fell to earth. From
his position he could see Tod laughing
with delight, slapping his leg and shaking
his head’ Derek pushed himself up and
ran after the puller as Tod swung
Bertha grandiloquently into a bend,
clasping his hands above his head in
token of victory.
When they stopped for dinner, they had
pulled a chain-wide strip round the
paddock, and the sheaves lay in an
ordered pattern, greeny-brown against the
bare earth. As they walked to the galley,
their boots went swish, swish, in the rye-
grass around the headland. “Like an
army marching on a wet bitumen road,”
thought Tod. He glanced at Bill, noting
the queer set expression on his face, and
wondered if he had been visited by the
same thought.
From the galley the crop looked cool
and green, and, with the tractors stopped,
they could hear the surf on the shingly
beach not a mile away. While they were
at dinner the stookers eame down to
stook. Short Jim Dale with a hundred
lengths of twine wrapped round his
middle for the loose ones, and old John
with his clay pipe upside-down. “R a i n
within 14 hours,” he prophesied, not one
whit abashed by Derek’s laughter and
the blue sky.
They teased and chaffed the stookers
before resuming work, but Richard
noticed that Bill did not say a word. “He
hasn’t said a word all day except to bet
me that quid. He shouldn’t have lifted
the puller,” he thought worriedly.
Through the long afternoon they pulled
the flax in the dust and the heat, with
great white clouds sailing from behind the
mountains and the sun pouring down in
brilliant heat. The sea looked glassy, and
the level at the horizon appeared to be
higher, than that of the stop bank at the
bottom end of the paddock. The bees
swarmed in the clover over the fence.
Bertha went round and round with never
a stop, and Tod was drowsing in the heat.
He caught occasional snatches of bawdy
song that Derek was singing on the puller.
AT six o’clock the sun began to go
down in the sky. The stookers left at
seven. The flax-pullers seemed locked in
a world of their own. The sea changed
from blue to grey, and Derek pulled on
his jersey. Tod sat up and began to count
the number of rounds that they had done
in an effort to calculate how much longer
they would be in the paddock, by com-
paring the area of what they pulled with
the area of the crop that remained stand-
ing. Three days would see them moving
to another crop. The warmth left the
atmosphere, and dew began to form in the
air. Derek wonderSd idly what the time
was, but at the thought his heart gave a
suffocating jump. He repressed it
sternly, and ran for a while behind the
puller. ,
The dew made the flax greasy, and the
belts on Richard’s puller jumped off the
pulleys. Three times Tod pulled Bertha
out to pass them as Richard struggled to
get the belts on again. The fourth tune,
Derek whistled, and Tod stopped Bertha
on a bend. Together they walked back
to where Richard was wrestling with tne
belts in a tangle of flax, while Bill sat on
the tractor, back to Richard, appar .
indifferent to his difficulties. .
“D.C.M. or no D.C.M.,” said Derek
angrily, “he ought to lend a hand.
He looked at Tod, and they laughed
though not very humorously. R^ar
was swearing fluently as they ca
■‘Now, now, Dicky my
Sunday,” said Tod. He bent to examm
the puller. . ;11 , w k>
Richard was glowering at Bill s, back
“The bloody drums broken,
announced. “It’ll have to bewe
Richard pushed back hi h
smiled appreciatively. He pu f
pipe and lit it. They heard he
a car engine, and all but B an d
saw a car shooting down the track
come bouncing towards them.
urVUR BOSS, which art m Wash
U dyke, Wilfred be thy V puffed
had just time to murmur before w
had left the car. „ q ome thing
“Well, boys, what s bent to
broken? Drum cracked?
examine it. “The mechani“We’lJ
he said, glancing at his ■ Ricbar d
weld it to-night. Bill, y y o u
take Bertha round till dark. on .
stay with me. Derek, put the
will you?” . re hk coat whi[ e
Wilfred was taking off h for his
speaking and walking to tbe first
overalls. Tod had asp g er tha,
nut. Richard &p ran g U P .. climbed
ing wickedly at Derek, w |le ; Derek
slowly on to the * a ssing the
walked to the galley, P
mechanic in the truck. tbe kettle-
He lit the fire and put gal } e y, he
Standing in the doorway ° f sun was
looked over mountains, and
well down behind tb® lower edg*
black clouds with a crim Darkne ss w? s
hung above the luri d welding^
forming swiftly. The tba t was \
leapt out of the dark Richar d
smaller tractor and P


brought Bertha in, and stopped alongside
drum on the fuel wagon. In the silence
Derek could hear the birds singing in the
milled himself together and climbed
beside Richard. ‘Til refuel her while you
make some pikelets,” he said.
He pumped the tank full, tested the oil
an d water levels, and threw a cover oyer
fhe tractor. He looked into the galley
where Richard was mixing pikelets, then
to the dinghy and lit the candle.
Taking a bucket of water from the water
race, he took off his shirt and sweater
and began to wash.
Tod brought the small tractor and
miller' up to the wagon, and by the time
he had refuelled Richard had the pikelets
ready and was calling. Come and get it,
or else! ”
Tod glanced in the galley, and Wilfred
waved a mug of tea, saying, “Get Derek.”
Tod went quietly to the dinghy, and leant
in the doorway rolling a cigarette.
“My God,” he said abruptly. “That’s
my mug, you rotter.” Derek started, and
turned from the mirror. He wiped the
blood from the cut he had made from
his chin. He looked for the towel, and,
finding a clean piece, wiped his face. He
put on a clean shirt, lifted a heavy box
of bolts from a book, opened the book
and took a collar from between the pages.
He hunted frantically for his stud ; he
apologetically took Tod’s from a shelf at
the head of the bunk nearest the door.
“She must be nice,” Tod said non-
committally. Derek was wrestling with
bis stud.
“She’s the best-looking girl I’ve ever
met. She”-—he began enthusiastically.
He caught a glimpse in the mirror of Tod
smiling to himself and went on with
scarcely a pause, “She looks like two
dinners on one plate. She has pigtails,
halitosis, and two left legs.” He turned
round, hands at his collar, and stared at
Tod’s feet, “But I doubt whether you
could drive a horse gmd cart between her
legs.”
Tod made a dive, and Derek yelled for
mercy. Tod went to the galley while
Derek continued dressing. He took his
trousers from under the mattress,
polished his shoes on his socks, wet his
hair in the race, and was combing it when
Wilfred appeared in the doorway,
“Going courting?” he asked with a
grin. Derek did not answer. “If you’re
going into Timaru, put the bike on the
back of the car and I’ll give you a lift.
Get a move on.”
FAEREK and Wilfred sat in the car.
“You don’t want anything else?”
Wilfred asked Tod, who had one foot on
the running-board,
“I don’t think so. Don’t forget the
meat for to-morrow,” Tod replied
thoughtfully, his eyes on his cigarette. He
looked up, and said “Now, Derek. You
be careful!”
Wilfred let the clutch in, and the car
shot away. Derek leant out his window
and shouted “Don’t be lonely, Tod dear.”
He waved to Richard standing in the
galley door.
Derek jumped in the car again after
shutting the road gate. The car shot
forward and soon they were doing 60
miles an hour. Derek sank back in the
seat, and Wilfred did not speak till they
were going over the hill into the town.
“Does Bill do his fair share?” he asked
suddenly.
. “Yes, he does,” said Derek consider-
mgly. “Drop me at the corner, please,” he
added.
Wilfred pulled the car upi.
“How do you get on with him?”
All right,” said Derek shortly. “He
never says a damn word,” he blurted out,
looking at Wilfred.
He was very badly wounded in the
head at Akrouna,” Wilfred said slowly.
1 was asked to give him a job. He is not
supposed to do any heavy work, but driv-
ing a tractor should not be too much
r °r him. He wanted something to do,
nnd his people are very worried about
If he is upsetting you at all, I can
easily say I think the work is too much
for him.”
. ere k felt a sudden distaste at discus-
jmg Bill behind his back. “Oh, he’s 0.K.,”
f said. He opened the door and took his
m lcy ? „ from the back. “Thanks very
m sa awkwardly.
looked at him appraisingly,
, Derek felt uncomfortably that he
read his thoughts. Finally Wilfred
m, Tf you want anything, ring up,”
and let in the clutch.
|T was surprisingly warm when Derek
Kpv j Ut a § a m for the galley. The moon,
- md grey clouds that covered the sky,
f j ® fhe land seem boundless but
endly. The wide fields seemed to press
r^ to the edge of the road, only the
rk sharp shadows of the gorse fences
keeping them in check. Raising itself, the
land urged: Summer’s here, summer’s
here, can’t you see ?
Summer ’s here, can’t you feel ? with
every turn of the pedals until Derek’s
heart leapt up and he wobbled happily
and crazily up the road. It was harder
along the track through the two paddocks
of rape to the galley. The leaves stood up
black and mysterious in the faint moon-
light. Derek was still exhilarated when
he arrived, and he slapped the bike under
the dinghy, then picked it up and laid it
down more soberly, recalling that it be-
longed to Richard. Stump crawled out
from under the galley growling and
snarling. Derek spoke a quiet word to
him, but he still kept on growling, and
his hackles were standing up. Puzzled,
Derek fondled his ears, and Stump let out
a mournful howl. Derek clamped his
mouth with his hand, and Stump
whimpered plaintively.
Sitting on the towing platform between
the galley and dinghy, Derek took off his
shoes. The dinghy was a hut on wheels
with rounded top. The top and walls
were made of wooden laths running
lengthways, the whole being covered with
w fiite canvas. Holding the bike-lamp up,
Derek laughed to himself once again at
what Richard had printed there weeks
a go;
lONA CORONA
The Queen Of Ifhe Haws
Jt was pitch-dark in the galley, there
being only the door at one end and a
small window at the other. There were
e igh t bunks, two up and two down, on
each side. Tod slept in the upper berth
on the left-hand side, nearest the door.
He appeared to be sound asleep when
Derek entered. For a moment Derek was
not sure whether he was there, but even
when he held up a lighted match Tod
did not stir, lying on his side, face to the
wall. Derek lit the candle.
They all slept upstairs, Derek on the
same side as Tod, so that only a board
separated their feet. Derek’s possessions,
his swag, two dirty white shirts, candles,
a packet of needles, nugget, boots, socks,
trousers, books, shaving-gear, letters and
tobacco-tins, were spread m a depressing
way, but with magnificent largesse, all
over the unoccupied bunk beneath his
bed.
The alarm-clock showed ten past three
and was set for quarter to five. Derek
moved the alarm on to five, and changed
into a working shirt and a pair of shorts.
He took the photograph of a girl from his
pocket, studied it for a few seconds, then
put it back and climbed manfully up to
his bunk. He blew the candle out at the
fourth attempt. The image of the flame
danced on the retina of his tired eyes, and
for a moment the features of the girl in
the photograph appeared before him in
the enveloping darkness. He fell asleep
smiling to himself.
HE had not been asleep more than an
hour when he woke suddenly. He
lay listening, listening.
It was pitch-black, and an overpower-
ing sense of being shut in flooded over
him. His limbs were tense. Stealthily he
turned his head on the pillow so that he
could hear with both ears. His heart was
pounding, and he held his breath in an
effort to control it, then clawed at the
blankets over his chest.
There was not a sound in the dinghy;
not the slightest movement.
He held his breath again, but could
not hear any of the others breathing, not
even Richard, who snored atrociously.
The sound of the clock ticking burst into
his strained senses like a bomb, but did
not lessen his feeling of awful awareness.
He stared into the darkness, trying to
fight down the tide of unreasoning terror
rising in him. He was trembling beneath
the blankets, and his brain was pounding.
He imagined something closing in on him
through the darkness. The blackness
tightened, nearer, nearer, and the weight
of his fear threatened to choke him.
He made a supreme effort to throw off
the suffocating sense of hidden danger,
and his fear seemed to burst through the
bonds that were paralysing him. He flung
his body forward and sat up screaming
“Tod! Tod! ” His trembling hand found
and lit the candle on the shelf at his head.
He whipped round, candle in hand, and
leant forward shaking and thumping
Tod’s feet frantically. He struggled
forward on to his knees and reached out,
pulling the blanket from Tod’s face.
The sight froze all his faculties. The
contraction of his hand broke the candle
and the top half wobbled crazily, held
only by the wick. Tod had been
strangled. His face was black. Blood
from his nose was dried on his bruised,
blue lips, his cheeks were hideously
swollen, and fearful marks of hands dis-
figured his neck.
Derek stared and stared, hypnotised by
fright. His lips were parted, his mouth
dry, and his stomach retching. His eyes
hurt. With a cry, he flung himself back.
Wildly he reached across to Richard’s
bunk, and tugged at the blankets. The
figure in the bunk, lying face to the wall,
rolled over loosely, and Derek felt as
much as saw the hideous face. Agonisedly
he sprang from his bunk to the floor.
The candle went out.
In his panic one idea remained fixed
in his mind. To get out. Oh, to get out!
White-faced and dry-eyed he groped his
way to the door, his brain a jumble of
revolt, his mind still hideous with the
picture of Tod. He shrank away from
Tod’s bunk. His hand, feeling for the
door in the darkness, slid along the
blankets of the bunk opposite.
Something moved.
BEFORE Derek could realise his
shock. Bill’s hands were at his
throat. Derek’s knees turned to water.
He sagged. Bill rolled out of the top-
bunk, and crashed Derek down into the
empty lower-bunk opposite. Derek’s
hea4 hit the side. A picture of Tod, in
battered hat and ragged flannels and
sports-coat, looking, down at the cigarette
he was making, his eyes twinkling pre-
paratory to some teasing remark, seemed
to explode in Derek’s brain. A wave of
hate and loathing swept over him, and
he clawed desperately at the hands
squeezing his throat. He wriggled his
knees under Bill’s stomach and pushed
savagely.
Lights flashed before his eyes. Great
iron bands tightened round his chest, and
a suffocating dryness rasped his throat.
His hands, weakly waving above his head,
struck a length of broken divider-bar
stuck in the bottom beam of the bunk
above. The half-second it took him to
wrench it loose seemed like a century.
Then blindly he lashed out in front of
him, with all the strength of his despair.
The choking hands relaxed, and he
flung himself under the writhing arms
against the dinghy door. It crashed open,
and he fell on to the towing-platform
He picked himself up almost in the same
movement, and jumped for the galley
steps. He landed on the top step, fell
through the doorway, and dragged the
door shut.
He pulled the dresser over and jammed
it against the bolt of the door. In doing
so he knocked over the .303 rifle, and
heard the magazine rattle. With an ex-
ultant shout, he seized the rifle and felt
hastily for the rounds on the ledge above
the doorway. He put two in the maga-
zine, and cocked the rifle.
Bill’s furious rattling at the door filled
him once again with fear. He fired the
rifle from the hip through the door, and
the rattling stopped. The galley filled
with the smell of cordite. Derek’s
laughter ringing in the silence shocked
him ' into near normality. He leant
trembling against the dresser. Fiercely he
tried to discipline himself. For a moment
he was calm and stood perfectly still. He
could not hear a movement. His
strained faculties offered no clue to Bill’s
whereabouts. “Perhaps he’s dead outside
the door,” he thought, and began to
tremble again.
A sound from the other end of the
galley made the sweat come into his
palms. He wheeled nervously. Bill had
his head and shoulders through the
window, and one knee on the sill. A
look of maniacal rage distorted his face.
Deliberately Derek raised the rifle to his
shoulder and fired. Bill fell across the
sill.
WITH a sob, Derek threw the rifle
down, heaved the dresser aside and
wrenched open the door. He jumped
over the steps to the ground, and ran
away up the track. He ran as fast as he
could, his breath coming in great gasps,
arms, legs and heart pumping like
pistons. At last he was forced to slow
down, and shambled into a walk. He
found himself confronted with the road
gate, and stood staring without seeing it.
He turned and sat down on the bank
of a pond in the corner of the paddock.
Gradually he became conscious of his
bare-feet burning, wet with dew. He
lifted his head lifelessly and saw that
dawn was just greying the sky. Great
drops of rain splashed coolly on his face.
He heard the noise of their falling on
the sheet of water behind him.
The painful, burning pricks behind his
eyes grew hotter, and tears forrning
brought a sense of relief. “Dear tod,
bethought. “Dear Tod.” Then, ,} must
ring up.” And again, “Dear Tod.
VARIOUS VERSE
THE MOPOKE.
Mopoke, night-bird, taunt again,
though, under this suburban sky,
I alone of city men
comprehend your wordless cry,
radiant with tl>e mysteries
of the tribes of ragged trees,
bending over sleeping lakes
up the River Murray way,
where the gentle moonlight makes
night a little golden day.
victoria.
REX INGAMELLS.
WEALTH.
Wealth is to have
more than one can absorb
at a single sitting.
In this respect
everyone is rich
beyond conception,
the spiritual banking-account
being what it is. Wealth
is not to be able
to let hunger and thirst
make any impression
on what’s to be drawn upon.
Straws? Little fly,
you know the meaning of wealth,
don’t you, dabbing at a puddle
of milk on a milk-bar table!
n.z.
W. HART-SMITH.
ANNIVERSARY.
And whep a plover over midnight
wheeling
Welcomes the run of water under trees,
Swift as the moving earth his cry is,
sealing
Discovery and his delight in these.
Plover and midnight sky and stuff of
dreaming—
These are love’s essences from which
we draw
Virtue and strength against day’s world
of seeming—
The wind-hung balances which poise
life’s law.
And though the last wave of a late
tide leaping,
Lifts, but an instant is on ebb with-
drawn—
When plover calls, with you beside me
sleeping,
Midnight it is; but we ascend the dawn.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.
BUDGERIGARS.
Over the monotone
of mulga like mind’s despair,
flights of the budgerigars
flash, particled, showered in air,
in life that is clothed with fire,
throated with shrill fierce joy,
gathered and smoothed into speed
only to writhe and deploy;
to stream into earth’s grey scrub,
to swerve there in glitter of gr'een,
to soar as a vanishing smoke
where sudden fire had been.
Over the monotone
of mulga and mallee is lost
song that was fierce shrill joy,
fire of its visitant host.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.
AFTERNOON.
I sing the cattle home;
Walking through the stubble
With the sunset around me
And cows and calves
Rump-joggling before me.
1 bring the cattle home:
Being part of the sunset
That spreads itself over
The yellow, dry straw.
O I would have her by me in the
stubble!
Crackling the straw with movement,
having no trouble
Of wooing and wedding and always
*”■ doing what others
Are doing. Come, love! shall we be
lovers.
Dropping the pretence that love can
last forever
With innumerable in-laws and children
to sever
And bind? Let us remember that love
is love
And more than love when the sun
breathes on us and soft
Brittle-straw shadows move on our
faces:
No mocking memories; only the sea-
sonal traces
Of roll and tumble in the stubble.
Come!
Let the cattle find their own way home.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Tire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
ktip ncom<* ft!
SANDERS
Correspondence. 1 0 * 0 1 C *
statements. etc.. >M
“Sander.’ can b.
bound and converted •»“
period book o( reference at
the end ol each n-jalb -
9NEV '•
iboiihnb 1
FI, AIDE
w c f’ en ''
„ Ptf. lt *'
* C * ?u **•
Bros/”' Ll 4*
'v»rdo». *
varU o-
pc*** »"*
dfg
dfg
rrw*
turf "•'""‘I
Australia Fishing:
By " Col M.”
Australia at present is just nibbling at the big fishing potentialities
around its coast. The U.S.A. is becoming increasingly interested in
our crayfish tails and tuna; while, of course, our own market is still
not fully satisfied. Here is a description of the industry and
something about its prospects and problems.
Catching Them
THE boat slides down the
beach, bobs for a while in
the water close to shore and
then, with the net dropping
over behind, moves straight for
a dark patch of water that seems
to be choppy in the middle of
calm.
The man at the tiller watches
signals from the other on the
spotting-platform, which stands
high off the beach on four
spindly legs. He turns his boat
about beyond the school and
moves for a while parallel to
shore. The man on the tower
drops his arms and the boat
turns for the beach. The spotter
shins down one of the platform-
legs like a monkey, to be wait-
ing on the beach to seize a net-
rope when the boat touches
ashore.
Later, as his back bends and
straightens and his heaving great
drum of a chest glistens with
spray, his teeth show in a
widening grin. He’s hauling in
silver.
The fish are quiet at first.
Then as the net slowly draws
them in and their area of water
lessens the panic starts. A great
splashing begins along the cork-
line, and the cold brine seems to
boil.
In half an hour all the net is
ashore except the pocket of
tighter mesh, solid with fish —23
tons of. them. They must be
scooped to lighten the load, and
men wade out until they are up
to their waist in live fish and
lay about them right and left
with lengths piping, stunning
fish and hurling them up on the
shore.
Basically there are two ways
of catching fish commercially —
by trapping them in some such
net or by catching them on a
line. In June, 1949, Australia’s
10/331 licensed fishermen sent in
returns which made our total
catch for the previous 12 months
7*8,648,324 pounds of fish. This
was all —“on paper.” They prob-
ably caught a lot more, but their
returns had to be sent to a Gov-
ernment office —and, well, the
Income-tax Department is a
Government office, and all Gov-
ernment offices are probably in
cahoots, or so some fishermen
think.
There are professional fisher-
men who, when the monthly
catches they mention are totalled
and considered as income, only
make £2OO a year. Out of this
they have to pay for their gear
and maintenance of their craft.
They must live on fish-heads.
Nevertheless, 78 million, as a
minimum poundage, is a lot of
fish.
Look for a moment at the
man who catches them by line,
for in the near future we are
going to hear a lot about him.
He moves out over the swell
and on to deeper water. With
his foot on the tiller he pilots a
small craft powered by an old
car-engine. He stands in a well
about 4ft. square, with a low
wooden wall between it and the
deckhouse, and in front of that
wall is another well, empty. On
the stern and side gunwales of
the boat are ’oiled heavy cord
lines about 50 yards long, and
each is fitted with a barbless
hook baited with a strip of
white raw-hide.
He cranes his neck to see over
the deckhouse, kicks the tiller
with his foot and tosses out be-
hind a line different from the
others. It is weighted with lead
sinkers all along and its hook
is stuck through the tail of a
•mullet. Down it goes, trailing
out behind the boat, deeper and
deeper. Suddenly it jumps taut
in his hand and, letting that line
drop, he quickly tosses overboard
all the other lines and they trail
their bait along the surface 50
yards behind. He takes up the
leaded line again and slowly
hauls in. He is. raising a school
of barracoota, and as they fol-
low the captured fish to the
surface they spot the trailing
lures.
From now on <his fisherman
works fast and hard. One by
one the trailing lines go tight.
He pulls one in quickly, lifts the
fish from the water and in the
one movement swings it over his
head, hitting the line just near
the hook on top of the wooden
partition. The fish drops into
the well, and as he swings round
again the line drops back on to
the water.
In this way, six months ago,
he caught barracoota, and had
been catching the staple ’coOta
ever since he was big enough for
thigh-boots. Then towards the
end of last year a fisherman from
Narooma (N.S.W.) came back
into port with a catch of
southern blue-fin tuna.
The fishermen on this stretch
of coast had been having one
of their periodical hard times.
A canning company offered them
a good assured price for all the
tuna they could catch, and
although they were unprepared
for serious tuna-fishing they im-
provised gear and in a few weeks
landed 300 tons of tuna by trol-
ling, a method which is
financially possible to every
fisherman who owns a boat.
Tuna occurs seasonally right
along the Australian coast, from
the Queensland border down
New South Wales, across the
southern side of the continent
and then halfway up Western
Australia. The fish feeds on a
small shrimp-like creature called
krill, or “whales’ food,” which
occurs right along that strip of
coast, occasionally so thickly
that it gives a pink color to the
surface of the sea as seen from
a plane.
In six months the fishermen
on the south coast of N.S.W.
took 800 tons of tuna. For their
home-made gear they used lures
of aluminium, bone and feathers.
The boats they had ranged from
20ft. to 50ft., 10-horsepower to
a hundred. They fixed out-
rigger poles cut from saplings
and about the same length as the
vessels port and starbbard about
amidships, stayed them fore and
aft and to the mast and set them
at a 30-degree angle to prevent
their touching the water when
their vessels rolled. Two or three
lines were attached to each pole
about 9ft. apart and one end of
a line was tied to the pole, and
2ft. from this end a shock-
absorber cut from an old inner-
tube was fitted so that the im-
pact of the striking fish would
be taken by the rubber, Then
they went after them.
Green’s Products, Canneries
Division, who were responsible
for sending a trial shipment .of
our tuna to United States, put
in some thought on special labels
which would conform with the
U.S. Food, Drugs and Cosmetics
Act. They knew from their
palates that they had something
good, for when samples of first-
grade American tuna and our
southern blue-fin were compared
the local pack was the better.
The Green company was still
taking a gamble, for on the
west coast of the U.S.A., where
it sent the first shipment, there
is an annual catch giving
7,000,000 cases of canned tuna.
Also, our southern blue-fin was
not quite the same species as
the Californian fish, and, as there
are definite, specifications in the
U.S. governing what tuna species
(M.
“Never mind whether it's a boy or a girl, matron
just tell me the Weight."
could be classed as light meat,
American buyers would prob-
ably hold back.
The shipment of tuna was
sent, some frozen in the round,
some canned. The round tuna
arrived in excellent condition,
and it was immediately classified
as light meat. It had great ad-
vantages, for the Australian
fishermen had bled the fish and
the fish were taken by trolling.
The Californian tuna, caught
mostly by purse-seine netting,
were not bled, and where the
Australian fish were handled in-
dividually and were free from
bruising, the purse-seine fish
were inclined to be bruised.
Samples of Australian canned
tuna also created a fine impres-
sion in California; but, while
tuna in the round is admitted to
the U.S. duty-free, there is a
duty of 22} per cent, on the
canned variety.
The theory of “quality, not
quantity” is all right in its place,
but if Australia is to make the
most of this dollar-earning fish
bigger boats and deep-sea net-
ting are called for. The fisher-
men who trolled for the tuna
worked at about five miles off-
shore, and the fish they caught
averaged 16 pounds. It was
known that 25-40 piles out there
were great quantities of much
larger fish, most of them 40-
pounders.
Why don’t we go ahead and
net them? To understand the
answer to this one, consider the
deep-sea netting side of fishing.
At the moment there are only
two boats operating in Australia
suitable for purse-seine netting
of pelagic fish (the kind that
don’t live on the bottom). These
vessels are the Eden Star, of
61ft., and the Lucy Star, of 70ft.
One other is being built.
Add to the price of such a
craft the expense for nets. A
purse-seine net suitable for tuna-
fishing can cost £5OOO. If a
fisherman did manage to scrape
up that much money, took the
net to sea and made his first
drag he could quite easily trap
a couple of sharks or seals and
see his outlay torn to pieces in a
few minutes.
Here is what happened to the
Lucy Star, fishing last October
with a 300-fathom purse-seme
net;
On OctobeV 29 a very large shoal
were surrounded, but sharks tore the
net, and 30,7801 b. of fish [mackerel
in this case] was saved out of per-
haps six times this amount. The next
haul was late evening on November
1. All fish surrounded were caught,
totalling 63,3471 b.
On November 3 a huge shoal ot
fish were surrounded, but the net was
unequal to the strain imposed on xt
by the weight of the fish, and burst.
Only 84001 b. was saved.
It seems a chancy business,
and, for a while at least, our
tuna-fishing must be by trolling.
However, those who can our
fish are jubilant.
Look for a moment at our
general catch. We fish com-
mercially for flathead, snapper,
flounder, bream, sea-herring,
garfish, trevally, pikp, mullet,
salmon, barracoota, shark, black-
bream, leatherjackets, whiting,.
groper, nanygai, jewfish, tar-
whine, tailer, mackerel, cod and
some dozens more. They are
fine eating fish, but the fact that
there is such a phenomenal num-
ber of different varieties is a
mixed blessing.
In the cold-water areas of the
world, such •as Canada or
northern Europe, conditions are
such that there are comparatively
few species of fish, but there are
infinite numbers of each species.
So it is that an industry in, say,
hemngs can be built up with
little danger that that type wm
ever be “fished out” rL dl
Australia the warmer condition?
while producing perhaps £
same bulk of fish, have con
tnved to place them in a lot of
different little baskets; in Lt
we have 2200 entirely diffeS
species of fish. erent
Thus, many of our edible fish
are on }y minor use com-
mercially, for there are too f ew
of many of the particular types
to build up a safe industry deal
mg exclusively with that type of
fish. Instead of being able to
concentrate on our infinitely
tastier lines the fishing industry
has had to depend on the
“quantity” fish, and it is un-
fortunate that where other coun-
tries have, as their “quantity
fish,” herrings, sardines and
sock-eye salmon Australia’s, up
to now, have been a very motley
collection, being mullet (17 per
cent, of the total catch), barra-
coota (15 per cent.), salmon (and
a very dubious salmon it is: 8
per cent.) and shark (7 per cent.).
Tuna, “the best canning fish
in the sea,” seems to be a
quantity fish, which is why the
hats are now being thrown so
high in our fishing industry.
Getting Them to Market
Choice of certain roads along
Australia’s coastal strip will
quickly produce a marked in-
feriority complex in the driver
of a small car, and he will sorhe-
times even find himself steering
along the grass at the side of
the road. From there he watches
the passage of mighty fish-
trucks howling along from their
coast port to the nearest rail-
head.
The fact that fish contain a
bacterial load higher than most
other foodstuffs calls for speed
from the moment they are
caught. It gives high wages to
the deft expert cleaner. It em-
ploys people who make ice
around the ports where the fish
are unloaded. It employs these
truckmen who can wave amiably
at high speed yet miss you only
by paint-thickness.
The oldest and still most suc-
cessful way of preserving whole
fish is to dip them in water close
to 32 deg. Fahr, and freeze
them with their individual glaze
of ice. Snap-freezing has now
partly taken over. In South
Australia, where 51b. cellopha
packs of fish-fillets are snap-
frozen, there are already ll fiJJ
freezing plants, and the old-
heavy wooden fish-boxes ar
the way out and freight costs
are being halved.
As any amateur fisherman
tell you, one of the
bottlenecks in getting a i
bream fit for the pan is■ sea mg-
When it comes to handling too
of fish rapidly andl properly scai_
ing each one of them h _
lem becomes immense. Tn
even to forms of saMPg fi h
machines, but always &
had to be treated one by
Then one evening a
Australian caH. iro .
C. Constantine-he desa
with the jop or u fish
hundredweight of into
singlehanded, towed a ** Jhe
an electric potato-peele .
(i Continued on poS e


FONDE
*
EN 1724
BMI4
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
{frusate
m
GUARANTEED. NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
The Australian
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Knitting, Crochet and
Needlecraft
Health Talk, Mothercraft
Serial, Short Stories and
Special Articles ,
On sale everywhere
Price 4d.
m.
y-
NAfOtfOM
when asked his greatest foe.
Replied: "The only enemy I know
And fear, is he who comes with
sleet and snow —
Midwinter.”
So now when in his strength and might
That foe sweeps on us swift to smite.
We seek protection where 'tis sure.
By using Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
DOCTORS o STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITOPxS
£>v
m
,
m.
x.
He
WOKeOSMMT
mm
mem/
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
He didn’t win her "by a whisker” . . . it’s his
smooth, clean-shaven look! You, too, can have
shaves that look good and feel good , . . Palmolive
Shaves! Palmolive soothes your skin as you shave
faster, closer without skin sttng! Get Palmolive,
the shave cream of successful men!
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
ONLY
18
PS2/120
BANKERS • EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN • LAWYER*
„f the words Dad wanted to
know, and he wished Miss Gaze,
5,“ schoolteacher was there to
help him. On .the other hand
Saps « was just as well she
SSn’t He couldn’t make out
everything that Dad was saying
because of the funny hooks and
& to hide his wr e
ine From where Bruno was sit-
tog the page looked like a drawi-
ng of a magpie’s nest. Still he
could see that it was a pretty
“em letter; Dad didn’t beat
about the bush. Bruno had
plenty of time to nut out the first
few lines; they went:
Wheelers & Company Ldt.
Dear Sirs, .
The winmdl you
sent up and about time is not all
therb like you by the looks of
U how the devil is a winmill
suppose to pull up deep watei
from a underground well if
there aint no pump there to suck
up with.
After that there were some
strong phrases about shiny pants,
heavy towers and harvesting,
and at the end Dad was as good
as his word and wrote:
I’ll send the whole caboos
back if that pump don’t come
on the next post first thing.
Yours Sinserely.
Bruno was leaning forward
trying to make out a strange
word when he got a jolt from
Dad.
“Git me a envelope an’ a
stamp.”
He found the envelopes under
the tea-tin in the kitchen, but
there were no stamps.
“ ’Ave you looked in the green
sugar-pot?” Dad asked.
“Yeah; they aint there,”
“The glass hen, then, or the
pickle-bottle?”
“Aint there neither.”
“Well, ask Mum!”
“She aint here.”
“Blast it all, where is she?”
“Dunno.”
Dad muttered wrathfully
about women always running off
at the wrong time. He took
the pen and smote a leaping
address across the face of the
envelope.
“ ’Ere, take this down to Mrs.
Knightley’s to post,” he told
Bruno. “Git a stamp from ’er
an’ don’t lose it.”
JUST then Mum came back
carrying a heavy, round
cylinder.
“What’s this?” she said.
“By ’ell,” yelled Dad. “The
pump! ’Oo’ad it?”
“ ’Erb an’ Doris was trying to
roll the ground flat where them
kittens ig buried,”
“Them damn kids! I’ll leather
their ’ides,” said Dad, “Give it
’ere,”
Dad took the pump and
scrutinised it carefully.
“That’s it awright. Bruno,
bring that letter back ’ere!
They’ll think a man’s mad!”
He unfolded the letter and
added an apologetic postscript:
P.S. Sorry, my damn fool
kids had it all the time, no
offenses.
Then he folded it again and
gave it back to Bruno to post.
Bruno walked down the track
towards Mrs. Knightley’s. The
dust puffed up between his toes
in little spurts and fluffed around
his feet. A whirlwind skirled
across the fallow paddock on
the ridge, standing up on its
toes and rising into the sky like
a chocolate ice-cream cone.
Aladdin, Bruno remembered,
made a man jump out of his
lamp like that in a drawing in
one of the books at school. The
sun was hotter than ever. The
turkeys at Mrs. Knightley’s
were all standing in the shade
of the fence-posts, with their
wings drooping and their beaks
wide open. They stretched long,
red throats suspiciously and
flicked shutters quickly up and
down over their beady eyes as
he went past.
Old Mrs. Knightley took a
long time to tear one stamp
from the sheet, and Bruno
kicked impatiently at the gal-
vanised-iron while he waited.
Then he stirred the saliva in his
mouth with his tongue, licked
energetically and pressed the
stamp and his fingerprints firmly
on the front of the envelope. He
gloried in Mrs. Knightley’s
attentive gaze.
“It’s about the new windmill,”
he told her proudly. “Very im-
portant.” That would make her
sit up —if her back wasn’t too
bent . . . Dad writing a business
letter to town.
WHEN he got back to the
well the pump \yas in place
and the pipes were connected-
up. But the great mill-wheel
hung motionless on its tower
like a hand-cut daisy against the
sky, and there was no rhythmi-
cal splatter of water into the
tank. Dad and Mr. Stas, stood
watching it, arms akimbo.
“No wind,” said Mr, Stas,
thoughtfully. “That ’ s the
trouble.” *
Dad spat. “Never no wind in
this damn place unless you make
it yourself.”
He climbed up the tower
laboriously, and, clinging awk-
wardly with one hand, tried to
spin the wheel slowly with the
other.
“See if the pump’s drawin’
water,” he called down to Mr.
Stas. But as he took his eyes
off the fans for a moment he
failed to get his hand clear and
took a ringing cut across the
knuckles.
“Double damnation! ” he
yelled.
“You goin’ t’ ’ang up there
all afternoon turnin’ the wheel?”
asked Mr. Stas.
Dad, was wrathful. “Is she
drawin’ water, damn it?”
“Nuh! Y’ aint turnin’ ’er fast
enough.”
Dad came down and stood
cursing and blowing on his
knuckles.
“Give y’ a nasty swipe if y’
aint watchin’,” said Mr. Stas.
“And them tails, too! Sweep y’
down orf the tower as clean as
a whistle if the wind changes
sudden. Got t’ watch ’em.”
“Damn pump’s too heavy,”
said Dad vindictively; “needs a
blasted hurricane to work ’er —
’ad a good mind to write ’em
another letter.”
“Nuh, too calm now,” Mr.
Stas mediated. “Wait till to-
morrer. Maybe we’ll get a
breeze round sun-down.”
But there was no breeze. The
night went by, and all the next
day. Dad returned to his har-
vesting, but as he sat on the
jolting seat his eyes always faced
in the direction of the windmill.
In addition, Bruno was detailed
to make regular reports. At
lunch-time on the second day
the wheel had made twelve and
a half turns of its own accord;
but it hadn’t pumped any water.
Dad thumped the dinner table. (
“I’ll write ’em another letter,
an’ by ’ell this time no friend-
liness.”
“Wait till tomorrow,” Mum
said. “The glass is falling.”
And sure enough, that night
it blew. Bruno could feel the
shock of the gusts against the
house, and hear the trees stream-
tag in the wind and tearing their
hair. All night he was con-
scious of his responsibility about
recording the wmdmills move-
ments How many times had it
turned by now? he wondered.
T Tirnr
HERE was no time for
breakfast in the morning. He
hitched up his pants as he ran
after Dad, who was striding
ahead towards the well. Mr.
Stas, was converging on it too,
blustering his oW horse along m
an urgent shuffle The slopes
were streaked with light, and be-
yond the well Bruno could fflake
out lanes of silver on the flats.
Mr. Stas, was chuckling wheezily
as they drew near.
“Heh! Heh! D’y’ still reckon
them noo pumps is no good?
Jest look at that!”
Bruno’s eyes opened very wide,
“Water,” he said incredulously.
“All water?”
“Water awright,” said Mr.
Stas, gleefully. “Over the road
an’ half-way down through
Arbiston’s crop. They won’t do
no reapin’ this side o’ Friday.
It’s jest like the Murray.”
“Damn swindlers,” said Dad
emphatically. “Why didn’t it
stop when the tank was full?
What happened to that there
wa^vrin'lbr^so'mSfhr y
was blowiu about so much?
Mr, Stas, looked crestfallen,
“I reckon,” he said slowly, “I
reckon we done it wrong. We
should’ve connected that darn
float there to the tail.”
Bruno gazed up at the tower
and the wheel. Instead of the
motionless daisy of yesterday
there was now merely the
shadowy outline of a circle, and
the plunger-rod pistoning furi-
ously up and down.
“Listen!” said Dad suddenly,
“I can’t hear nothin’.”
“Yeah! ’ said Mr. Stas. No-
thin mto the tank no
fce showed hh alalm
„ what>s up? „ he said
“fsjo m ore water,” said Mr.
g ta§ s j mp iy
mor ; wat er!” Dad was
agbas(;
“Must be the well.”
wed 9»
“p umpe d dry ”
“Dry?’’
Mr. Stas, seemed to be en-
j h himself.
H eh!”hesaid. “Them
nOQ pum p S lift a lot o’ water
in a ni ht give > em a good
w j nd „
Dad was stm tranced-
“g-but she can’t be dry ! The
wa t er ’ s flowin’ along down
there . . . always . . . two rivers.
g er t Lipchinski said.”
Mr. Stas, deliberated.
“I reckon,” he said slowly,
looking at the silver streaks in
Arbiston’s paddock, “I reckon
what that darn pump o’ yours
’as done is brought them two
rivers up to the surface, that s
what! ’
, ,
P)AD wad an y lons er -
He swore one explosive
? ath > made back .to the
house . ™ lth , giant stnde *’
con
rage . a ” d hl ® a ™ s jerkl J ag 1 c °£*
gate shut after him
Bmno> followiog
close behind. Mum and the
k j ds scattered before their
a dvance, like the fowls in front
D f Arbiston’s new car. Dad
reached the door two yards
ahead of Bruno and paused for
the first time, moist with sweat,
and lowering like a monsoon,
And his first clap of thunder
was:
“Bruno! Git me that ink-pot
an’ pen.”


The comfort of a
large car hut ...
B
■ !
THE JAVELIN COSTS LESS TO DRIVE
wfvS
Acceleration 0.60 in
22.2 secs.
Horizontally opposed
Flat-four 50 b.h.-p.
Engine.
Torsion Bar Suspen-
sion.
Steel Body.
Enjoy large-car comfort and riding
qualities all on the cost of running
a light car. Fuel consumption
is only 35 miles on a gallon
at a steady 35 m.p.h. yet there
is ample elbow-room, knee-room
and head-room for up to six
passengers and luggage.
Powered with a 50 B.H.P. four-
cylinder engine the Javelin has
no rival in its class for speed,
acceleration, and road ability.
Once tried you’ll say ‘Pd rather
go by Javelinl*
★ Made in Bradford. England, by JOWETT CARS LIMITED
Commonwealth distributors:
N.S.W. and A.0.T.: Bradford Cars Pty. Ltd., 218 New South Head Rd;, Edgechff
, Phone: FB 3100.
Victoria: Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 149-155 Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
Queensland: Redman Motors, 46-54 Edward St., Brisbane.
South Aust.: British Engineering Appliances Ltd., 430 King William St., Adelaide
Western Aust.; Western Motor 00. Pty. Ltd., 722 Wellington St., Perth.
Tasmania: Donald Qorringe Pty. Ltd., 72 Argyle Street, Hobart.
TUB li LITRE
joh'ettJAVELIN
agaoei took when Jt/uuasa
11
m
mm
A
&eautcfiu£
IVORY
CANE-ITE
CEILING
reflects the softest white
light and keeps out Heat and Co
So easy to remodel that cracked, old A
Prefinished Ivory Cane-ite can be app
right over any cracked surface.
Your new, beautifully panelled
catches and throws back the softest w i e o
•—as well as insulating the room nova
heat in summer and coldest conditions® d
Inexpensive easy to erect as s' 0
Cane-ite. Enquire from your loca
dealer or timber merchant.
IVORY CANE-ITE
A Product of
the colonial sugar refin'ng
Ruildina Materials Division „
Communism
and the Unions
By M. H. Ellis
THE lengthy and soberly-
written report of Mr,
Justice Lowe on the opera-
tions of the Communist
party in Victoria provides a host
of reasons why unions which
support freedom from legal re-
striction for the Communist
party should be made to bring
their operations into the daylight
like those of public companies
and public charities and associa-
tions.
The creation of this condition
of openness should have the
support of all unionists, since
only the daylight can dispel sus-
picion that much of the union
opposition to the Communist
Party Dissolution Bill is not dis-
interested.
Mr. Justice Lowe is noted as
a highly factual judge. He set
very rigid standards of proof in
relation to allegations about im-
proprieties in the conduct of
unions. Much of the available
evidence came from the ex-Com-
munist Cecil Sharpley.
Sharpley allegedly partici-
pated in many of the improprie-
ties which he related, and,
though a good witness-in-chief,
there was much to make one
doubt part of his evidence in
cross-examination, and his role
was “akin to that of an in-
former.” So the judge very
properly, treated his evidence as
“heavily suspect,” and had it not
been for “unexpected corrobora-
tion” of his evidence on a num-
ber of. counts would have been
inclined not to act on it at all.
He did, in fact, act on it only
where it was not denied, where
there was admission of its ac-
curacy, where there was corro-
boration or where the “circum-
stances were more in favor of
its truth thim its untruth.”
Evidence on Fraud
On this basis the commis-
sioner came to conclusions which
should give unionists cause to
feel that there is no more room
for talk of freedom of action
and speech for Communists than
there should be for any other
persons openly committed to
flagrant breaches of the law to
gain their ends. One might just
as well talk of the right of free-
dom of speech and action for the
Burglars’ Union.
Among the facts which were
established against the party by
Mr. Justice Lowe were forgery
of a cablegram, the passing-off
of herself by a woman member
as the wife of a railway em-
ployee to obtain free transport
to attend a party conference,
production of a false testimonial
by an Actors’ Equity official —
it purported to come from the
Department of Aircraft Produc-
tion —and a false declaration by
a party member using a false
name to secure a motor driver’s
licence.
The judge also found that an
allegation by Sharpley that
postal ballots had been fraudu-
lently manipulated in the Vic-
torian branch of the Building
Workers’ Industrial Union was
substantially true. The fraud
was worked to help Chandler,
a well-known Communist, to win
the ballot. Allegations of fraud
in certain ballots of the Clerks’
Union were not held to be
proved, but “there was evidence
of slackness in office manage-
ment and of opportunity for
fraud causing suspicion.” Re-
garding charges that 200 ballot-
papers had been altered in favor
of a Communist - supported
official for the Federal Secretary-
ship of the Federated Engine
Drivers’ Association there was
“evidence o£ the correctness of
some of the surrounding detail,”
but not sufficient to give Sharp-
ley’s story the necessary corro-
boration to satisfy the commis-
sioner. Some other charges
against other unions were not
fully established, but raised sus-
picions in the mind of the
judge.
Threats and Violence
But there was no doubt about
the count of violence in union
and Communist-party opera-
tions. Many cases were cited,
including violence and threats to
right-wing officials in a water-
side strike in Adelaide in 1931,
organisation of a Workers’ De-
fence Corps, the use by Gibson,
head of the Victorian branch of
the A.C.P., of retainers armed
with loaded batons, violence by
a group of Jfronworker Com-
munists to force their way into
a meeting of the Munitions
Union in 1946, illegal seizure,of
the Clerks’ Union offices in de-
fiance of the Arbitration Court,
forcible entry into houses and
the placing therein of persons
not die lawful occupiers, abuse
and threats of force towards
members of the Ship Joiners’
Union by members of the
8.W.1.U., threats of violence
against a witness whose real
name was not revealed in the in-
terests of her safety. When she
determined to leave the party,
members entered her house with-
out permission and searched her
rooms. One party member struck
her. Leaflets were put in her
letter-box suggesting that she be
“got rid of by hook or by crook,”
and the judge had no doubt but
that these were issued with the
authority or connivance of the
local branch of the A.C.P.
Rarely indeed has there been
such an exposure against any
public body operating in a British
white nation. Yet facts and
figures prove conclusively that
the organisation impugned has
nothing abortive in its nature.
It is true to say that in some
respects in recent years it has
been more powerful'than Gov-
ernments, its strength being con-
siderably increased by the pro-
tection accorded it by the Labor
party, which has recruited many
of its officials—including the
president and two trustees of the
N. S. Wales branch of the
A.L.P. and one N. S. Wales
State Minister—from the ranks
of the highest Communist-party
hierarchy.
A Statistical Story
A body which is called Re-
search Service has within the
past fortnight thrown a powerful
statistical light on the power of
Communism in a lengthy review
of Communist-initiated disputes
in Australia.
Where its figures have been
checked this document has been
found to be substantially
accurate.
The Communist unions, of
course, exercise an influence on
employment and production out
of all proportion t to the strength
of their manpower. Between
them they have the power to
paralyse industry, to disrupt or
destroy defence and to deprive
every person in the Common-
wealth of his living, his susten-
ance and his comfort. It is for
that ■' reason that Communism
has battened upon them and
secured control of them. In
N. S. Wales in particular, the
home of the great metal indus-
i tries and the centre of fuel pro-
duction for all the States, this
Communist control has been
| pushed to finality. Communists
head and manage, inter alia, 11
unions—the Miners’ Federation,
the Federated Ironworkers’
Association, the A.E.U., the
F.E.D.F.A., the Waterside
Workers’ Federation, the Sheet-
metal Workers, the Seamen and
the Ships’ Painters and Dockers’
Unions as well as the clerks and
some other bodies.
Communist Objectives
Wherever Communists domi-
nate a union either through hold-
ing high offices or through a
multiplicity of cells forming and
guiding the policy of a supposed
“moderate” leadership the objec-
tive is disruption and chaos in-
tended presently to produce “a
revolutionary situation” in which
the Government of the day is
unable to govern and successful
Communist insurrection becomes
possible with the help, if need
be, of armed force.
The weapon principally relied
on to achieve this purpose is the
political strike, the technique of
which i§ set out clearly in
Sharkey’s pamphlet on the
trade-unions, his ideas being
adapted bodily from the theses
of the late-lamented Dmitrov,
Secretary-General of the Comin-
tern, and Ercoli —who now calls
himself Togliatti. It has been
applied on a rising scale, and its
figures!' 6 " Ckar . the
Research Service found that
the Communist leaders in Aus-
tralia effectively control a strik.
mg force estimated at 234 nm
workers (10.7 per cent. o f\n
1947). This force is centred
however, in the great key in!
dustri.es: mining, engineering
shipping and transport.
Communist unions irf al i
States hold 25.4 per cent, of total
union membership, of which m
per cent. i S concentratedTn the
key industries. And in these in-
dustries the rise of strike losses
has been steady.
Members of Communist-con-
trolled unions throughout the
Commonwealth averaged a loss
of 17.5 man-days per head in
the years 1945-48, against 1.7
man-days in non-Communist
unions.
Between 1946 and 1949 man-
days lost in the coal industry in-
creased by 122 per cent. The
miners, with 3.7 per cent, of the
total union membership, in N. S.
Wales, have caused 89 per cent,
of the total number of industrial
disputes in the State since 1946,
and were responsible for 56 per
cent, of the total man-days lost.
Communist unions in N. S.
Wales, as a whole, comprising
28 per cent, of union member-
ship, lost 88 per cent, of man-
days lost over the whole of in-
dustry —the figure for the Com-
monwealth over four years from
1945 was 75 per cent.
Types of Strike
There are strikes and strikes in
the Communist world. There is,
for instance, the hit-run strike,
often restricted in locality and
in numbers, but wide in its


q
. > ,
v»
cJidel
FRGINGII PARK
The one thing you will frame*
d lately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and bustle. , . . The
Wentworth faces a park , , . yet
It is merely “round the comer"
from the centre of the city. The
room* are all you would wish
■ . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
in c§>i^dne^
Thon© BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE
REBORE
_
NEW
RINGS
oi ;“* t h P°ur RE-NU tkprid NU-METAL
™° u B? P!ug holes. NU-METAL will re-
p„“' tlon your motor while you drive.
»SH* ne i nUl fllm s pits and scores. Ends
tp jf n , and lost compression. Guaran-
en„i„. Miles, and harmless to finest
tewlS 6 '. hTU-MEI AL has been proved and
by over 100.000 users since 1934,
' °y n s« having used NU-METAL
J our timcs in the same engine,
ate Jlc, comes to you In a separ-
i n „ ior each cylinder, thus eliminat-
Enci^ Uess wor * t - Municipal Councils.
S 5» e*c-. use NU-METAL Treatmen;
37/« i- 4,6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-
Maii’ aI1 ’ wr he, or phone MA7250.
tSS* Oarges. 1 * 08 * **“* C - OJV * plU ‘
ORDER FORM
Mptat 6 forward me by return NU-
i Siw t ?* reat * Cylinder Engine.
1 “close Cheque—P.N.
send me illustrated Foldei
“escribing action of NU-METAL
Address
7 B. 10/5/’6O
TRADING COMPANY
147
JtfWgof, Bristol House,
Street, Sydney.
,7250
Missing Friend.
MANSON.—Anyone knowing the present
whereabouts of or having any Informa-
tion concerning EWEN AROHMAN MAN-
SON, a son of CATHERINE MANSON,
late of Leeton, Widow, deceased, is asked
kindly to communicate with RYALL &
CLARK, Solicitors, 34 Wade Avenue,
Leeton.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Director t: THOMAS A . MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S, White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
'Phone: B.W. 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States,
XN
CAUSE
Headaches
Backache
Joint Pains
Rheumatism
-
■
' v s
,
.
Excess Uric Acid in the sys-
tem puts a strain on the
kidneys, resulting in agon-
ising and sometimes crip-
pling pain. Before you can
feel really well again, you
must help the kidneys to
function normally and expel
poisonous impurities. A
course of Dr, Sheldon’s Gin
Pills gives gentle, sure and
safe assistance to weak kid-
neys. Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
help the kidneys to filter out
and eliminate pain-causing
excess acids and other im-
purities.
Take a course of Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills and help to banish
headaches, backache, joint pains
and rheumatism.
Thousands say they are grateful
for the blessed relief Dr. Shel-
don's Gin Pills have given them.
27 Pills: 2/ 60 Pills: 3/-.
Dr. Sheldon’s
■“ f v ' f » 11
FOB THE KIDNEYS
Plan now for
YOUR SON’S
FUTURE
0
mz
I? j&u
21
wm
mm.
<«4
All particulars can be
obtained from the Naval
Recruiting Office In your
capital city. , Victorian
enquiries should be made
direct to the Secretary,
Department of the Navy,
Navy Office, Melbourne,
A career as a Naval Officer is open to all
Australian boys of 13 —your son may be
eligible for entry as a Cadet-Midshipman
at the Royal Australian Naval College at
Flinders Naval Depot, Victoria. After
four years’ training there, he will go
overseas for th'e experience that forms
the background for a naval career in
which any father would be proud
to see his son.
Applications are invited for
CADET MIDSHIPMEN
Intelligent, healthy boys who become 13 years of age
during 1950, are eligible for entry to the R.A.N. as Cadet-
Midshipmen. They must be the sons of British subjects
by birth or naturalization and of pure European descent.
After an educational and medical examination, they will
appear before an interviewing committee, and the selected
applicants will enter the Royal Australian Naval College,
at Flinders Naval Depot, Victoria, at the end of January,
19 jl. They will undergo four years educational training to
matriculation standard at the College before going over-
seas for experience and further training with the Royal Navy
On return they are appointed to ships of H.M.A. Fleet.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY
APPLICATIONS FOR CADET-MIDSHIPMEN, 13-YEARS-old class of
ENTRY. SHOULD REACH THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY,
NAVY OFFICE, MELBOURNE, NOT LATER THAN 14th JUNE, 1950.
cumulative effects and usually
Sr Short and too small to
Arrant punitive action against
ff union involved. Strikes of
his type causing a loss of under
500 man-days have increased by
193 per cent, since pre-war days ,
837 of the average annual rise
in strikes since before the war
ast under 10 days and since
1947 have formed 94 per cent,
of all dislocations in N. S.
Wales. They have cost 51 per
cent of all lost manpower. And
with the growth of Communism
in the unions there has been
crowth of the number of strikes
I_the 480 disputes of 1938 grew
t 0 1506 in 1948. Hit-run strikes
formed 95 per cent, of the whole
in the coal industry.
The Sheetmetal W orkers, whose
dominant head is T. Wright, a
Communist Central Committee-
man who went to Russia for
two years for training, had 15
strikes between January, 1948,
and March, 1949. Average men
involved were only 70, but total
man-days lost were 30,500.
The next technique is the
rolling strike, operated on a
large scale in some cases and
losing from 1000 to 10,000 man-
days. This method accounted
in 1947-49 for 43 per cent, of
all time lost by the Miners’
Federation and 38 per cent, of
all lost days in the Communist
non-mining unions in N. S.
Wales.
The Waterside Workers in
post-war years provided the best
example of general stoppages.
In 1948-49, through their use of
the “general” technique, 1660
men were responsible for a loss
of 49,872 days—this in the most
pampered industry in the Com-
monwealth, in a union in which
the general secretary, one of the
most prominent Communists in
the country, was given Govern-
mental administrative authority
by a Labor-controlled Parlia-
ment.
Next in order of technique
comes removal of key men. One
case of the use of this method
was on March 4, at Clyde
Engineering Works. Only 19
members of the union
(F.E.D.F.A.) stopped working,
but it cost 117,000 man-days in
a key industry.
Communist Union Finance
The contrasts in the financial
aspect between Communist and
non-Communist unions is strik-
ing. In Communist-controlled
unions throughout the Common-
wealth workers have incurred an
average loss through strikes of
£2O p.a. per head against an
average of £2 65.-odd in non-
Communist unions. And Com-
munist unions have exacted over
the post-war years an average of
142 per cent, more in dues from
their members than have the
non-Communist unions.
Taking four N.S.W. unions
controlled by the Communists —
Coal and Shale Employees,
A.E.U., Ironworkers and Sea-
men —and comparing them with
four not Communist-controlled
—A.W.U., A.R.U., Transport
Workers and Electrical Trades—
it is shown that dues in the Com-
munist unions increased between
1939 and 1949 from £2 to £3.3
per member, while in the four
non-Com. unions the increase
was only from £l.l per head to
£1.4 per head.
Research Service adds:
One further hypothesis cbuld be
put forward, namely, that large sums
of money flow into these unions from
undisclosed sources, so that these
inflated receipts are not the drain
they would appear to be on the
resources of individual unionists. It
is, however, impossible to produce
evidence for or against such a possi-
bility, and, in consequence, we must
presume that workers belonging to
these groups pay penalty rates for
Communist management.
It seems significant that since
1946 the expenditure of the four
big Communist unions named
above has been £3 Bs. per head,
or nearly three times per head
that of the non-Communist
unions with which they are in
comparison.
Strange Anomalies
It is also strange that there
seems to be no true relationship
between working days lost by
Communist unions and varia-
tions in expenditure per head,
which suggests that substantial
funds are spent in some mysteri-
ous way not properly accounted
for.
In the Federated Ironworkers’
Association expenditure out-
side benefits in 1946 was £1
4s. per head and working days
lost per bead were 1.7. In the
following year expenditure per
head increased by 36 per cent,
while working days lost increased
by only 6 per cent. In 1948 ex-
penditure per head again swelled
by 11 per cent., making a total
for two years of 50 per cent.,
while losses of man-days were
at a minimum and showed a
decline of 89 per cent, over the
previous year. Yet this does not
square , with the stability of the
non-Communist unions’ figures
in no-strike years. In four
unions which did not have Com-
munist Management Builders
Laborers’, Transport Workers’,
Liquor Trades’ and Boot
Trades’ the only post-war
years in which there was an
increase in expenditure per
head were isolated ones in
which there were industrial
stoppages. These increases show
a direct relation to the extent of
the dislocation of employment.
The Research Service very
justifiably declares that “the sug-
gestion that Communist unions
make payments into a fund for
the purpose of financing the
overall plans of the Communist
unions or the Communist party
is quite consistent with evidence
of random fluctuations in the ex-
penditure of these unions taken
singly.” For if they do help to
meet liabilities incurred by other
Communist organisations their
expenditures would be subject to
wide variations irrespective of
the cost of their own current
operations, and this has been the
case.
Arresting Examples
And the Service cites the case
of the Seamen’s Union by way
of example:
The Seamen’s Union expended
sums of £4, £2 18s. and £4 per head
in 1946, 1947 and 1948 respectively.
Yet over these years the union was
not involved directly in industrial
hold-ups necessitating large expendi-
tures. If the running-expenses of the
union were £2 18s. per head in 1947,
it seems logical to ask why, in the
absence of contingencies, they should
have stood at £4 in 1946 and 1948.
Again, the rise of 32 per cent, m
working days lost by the coal unions
of N.S.W. in 1947 would lead one to
expect a rise in union expenditures.
The fact that accounted outlays fell
by 21 per cent, raises the question
whether the union received unrevealed
subsidies from outside sources.
Moreover, it is pointed out, it
is significant that the A.E.U., the
Seamen and the Coal Unions
should each have spent an annual
sum of £3 2s. per head in the
years 1946-48 compared with the
corresponding figure of £1 2s.
for the Ironworkers and the
8.W.1.U. Yet the Seamen lost
only 0.3 man-days per head com-
pared with 9.8 man-days attri-
butable to the Ironworkers in
the years 1946-48.
It is added that “the analysis
shows that Communist control
is’associated with abnormal costs
to union members,” and that
these organisations “expend large
sums bearing little relation to
their operating costs, leaving
open the question of whether
the contributions of their mem-
bers are being disbursed to un-
disclosed recipients.” It also
demonstrates “the inadequacy of
union financial returns as pre-
sented to the public.”
There is an obvious need to
let daylight into the finances of
these unions as one of the
sovereign remedies for the
disease of Communism.


How mii (*lt
df
time will your
Executor have tor affairs?
Few men can spare the time from their own affairs to attend properly
to the duties of an Executor and Trustee. The position demands
specialised knowledge and is no task for an amateur.
Why burden a friend with such grave and arduous responsibilities?
The Permanent Trustee Company offers you the assistance of a
group of experts to administer your estate. It is permanent, it
devotes all its efforts to the interests of its clients, and it gives a
service which no individual can offer.
Call and discuss your needs with one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for Free Booklet;
“trust estates and their management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., MtB.ChM., F.Rd.C.
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: C. N. P. Whittle.
Sub Manager: S. U. White.
Secretary: F. R. Garland r
Pastoral Inspector; Hugh Stewart.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. UMITCD
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, STONE*
UNNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE TOUGH JOB IN MALAYA.
Professor W. Macmahon
Ball, whom A.B.C. put on the
air with a broadcast which was
interpreted in Malaya (as it very
well might have been) as oppos-
ing the sending of Australian
troops to help, in Britain’s tough
job there, would find a probable
supporter in the writer of a re-
cent report in London “Tri-
bune,” though the two don’t
occupy quite the same ground.
Briefly, Professor Ball’s was a
fear broadcast. He argued for
caution out of fear of possible
repercussions; his view roughly
being that such Australian action
would be interpreted in Malaya
and thereabouts as outside, or
foreign, intervention. Another
aspect of the interpretation of
the broadcast was its acceptance
as official, which, of course, it
was not.
The arguments advanced by
the London “Tribune” writer
may be also of the fear category,
and also possibly fallacious ; but
they have the special interest of
being featured in a publication
which is a thick-and-thin sup-
porter of the British Socialist
Government. The writer, Wood-
row Wyatt, has the advantage of
close on-the-spot personal experi-
ence of the hitherto very dis-
heartening attempt to settle the
state of things in Malaya by
military means. It is this mili-
tary approach to the problem
which he opposes.
The British observer puts the
position up to now as being: On
the one side: 70,000 police,
11,000 British Army troops,
3500 soldiers of the Malay Regi-
ment and numerous aircraft. On
the other side: 7000 badly-
equipped Communist bandits.
The battle has been on since
June, 1949. Attacks on life and
property still run at 50 to 60 a
week after a decrease to around
30 during the second half of
1949. Those (including Wyatt
himself, as he admits) who said
that the bandit problem would
be substantially cleared up by
the end of 1949 have been
proved utterly wrong. Although
the end may be close, there is
still no sign of it.
Wyatt does not attempt to
diminish the problem’s difficul-
ties ; he would agree, in regard
to that aspect, with part of a
recent descriptive report by a
London “News Chronicle”
correspondent on the spot:
“Ranged against a compara-
tively small bandit force,
General Briggs has at his dis-
posal naval, army and air forces,
plus the police (augmented by
30,000 special constables and
half a million volunteers). His
task would appear to be easy.
It is the very reverse. He is
waging a war that is not a war.
The campaign is directed by the
civil authority, whose powers—
urfder the emergency declared
last year—are unlimited.
“The men who are actually
fighting in the remote jungle
areas are fairly unanimous in
saying ‘Give us martial law and
we will not have to pull our
punches.’ Back at headquarters,
however, the military authorities
say a firm ‘No’ to martial
1aw.....
“It is necessary to travel hun-
dreds of miles over and in this
vast country of seemingly end-
less jungles, mountains and
swamps before the picture be-
comes alive... .The bandits are
not only merged into the natural
—Los Angeles (U.S.A.) “Times. "
NOT ALL THE CAPTAINS AND THE KINGS
DEPARTED.
camouflage of the local Chinese
and Malay population. They
are scattered over the country
from the borders of Siam to the
Straits of Johore.
“Except when he strikes, the
bandit is invisible, hidden in the
jungle. He lyas, therefore, always
the advantage of the initiative.
Befriended or compelling aid
from communities of the several
hundred thousand Chinese squat-
ters who have infiltrated into the
country during and since the
war, he lies low and waits for
the chance to make trouble.
Then comes the job of trying to
track him down, winkle him
out, find his camp—and this in
jungle so thick that you can pass
within a few yards of a hut and
not see it.”
The point in that which the
London “Tribune” writer most
hotly opposes is the imposing of
martial law. Those who call for
“More troops and martial la,w,”
he contends, can have little idea
of what is involved; and as to
this he gives a graphic descrip-
/
tion of the real nature of this
jungle fighting:
“Just over a year ago I went
out with the troops in Malaya
on a bandit-hunting expedition.
A Guards battalion was en-
gaged on a carefully-prepared
simultaneous attack on three
spots ekch rumored as a bandit
hideout. Everyone in the en-
tire area was to be brought in
for examination. Certain parts
of the area were to be mortared
afterwards in the hope of killing
a few stray bandits who might
have escaped the searchers.
“It was hot, damnably hot.
For hours tall, sweating, unen-
thusiastic Guardsmen toiled
through the high grasses and
heavy undergrowth. All around
us hundreds of bandits could
have been hiding and we would
never have seen them. Every
now and again we came to a
clearing with three or four bam-
boo huts. The young men and
women were away on the rub-
ber plantations or in the tin-
mines. Sometimes there would
be an old Chinese man or
woman wandering aimlessly
about. The English officer
would indicate that he wanted
to see identity papers. They
would be examined, but conver-
sation was impossible. The man
or woman might or might not
be a Communist bandit or one
of their agents —who could tell?
Certainly not an Englishman
who was unable to speak
Chinese. 1 All he could do was
to send those he found down to
headquarters for further investi-
gation and then take his soldiers
on through the heat.
“And this was only the out-
skirts of the jungle. Malaya is
two-thirds hill and jungle. It
cannot all be searched. Even if
it were searched the results
would be meaningless save to a
few experts. ; Miles and miles
of seemingly limitless under-
growth and grasses conceal the
bandits better than any haystack
ever concealed a needle. And
suppose British soldiers or
Malay police did stumble across
a bandit? They have no means
of distinguishing him from any
other Chinese. The only way
the bandits are ever caught is
when they have been traced to
some definite hiding place and
are still there when the military
arrive. They have to be found
with the guns on them before
anyone can be certain.”
Further: ‘The Communist
bandits are aided by several
thousands of agents. The agents
live among the Chinese who cul-
tivate what would otherwise be
wasteland on the edge of jungles.
By day they hide their weapons
—many work on European rub-
ber plantations or in the tin-
mines. At night they assert their
authority over the Chinese pea-
sants. Should a settlement be
searched by police the peasants
are too frightened to give infor-
mation, because if they did the
Communist agents would dispose
of them when the police had
gone. The terror for the Chinese
who live in remote parts away
from police-stations and towns
is complete. It is hard to blame
them for not giving information
to the police or for giving food
and aid to the Communist
bandits. The alternative for
them is death. As it is, more
members of the Chinese com-
munity than of any other have
been killed by the bandits.”
In such circumstances, the
London “Tribune” writer con-
tends, it is hopeless to expect
any normal military methods to
succeed: “The bandits are aided
by the Chinese population with
reluctance and fear. The Chinese
in the towns can be bold enough
openly to proclaim their adher-
ence to the Government. But the
unguarded, unprotected Chinese
in the outlying areas dare not
help the British. Every British
planter in a danger area has a
detachment of Malay police per-
manently housed on the planta-
tion. It is not for him to jeer
at the timidity of the Chinese
who are not so fortunate.
“If the bandits are to be
eliminated a new atmosphere
must be created. Somehow the
Chinese have got to be per-
suaded to give information
secretly to intelligence personnel
and to feel confident they will
not be victimised for doing it.
The concentration of effort must
be on providing not soldiers but
police and Intelligence officers.
Everyone who can speak Chinese
should be pressed into service.”
/ The final sum of his argument
is that there will have to be a
different approach altogether.
Rather than more troops being
the answer, he holds that most
of the troops already there
could be sent home tomorrow
“if there were 500 to 1000 ex-
perienced guerrilla fighters who
knew what they were trying to
fight. If they were backed by
strong security forces experi-
enced in the Chinese language
and customs, and in the ways of
Communism, the trouble could
be ended in a few months.”
Indo-China Crisis.
A present dilemma in Indo-
China, with a fast-developing
crisis looming up there which
will require something positive
from the U.S., is analysed by a
staff writer of N Y «tr
Tribune.” Y * Herald
The dilemma, briefly, is th -
The great majority of thlS:
of Indo-China
the continuation of French!. 0
and could be united behind a
Government only if that r
ernment were clearly anrt G ° V '
toly destined to make C'
Ghma as independent as ffi-
nesia (he Philippines,
Pakistan and Ceylon. On i
other hand, if the French
ported Bao Dai or anyone Z
were promised independence
French Army could not be in!
to continue the war “Th
French officers ,and troops Ta
the French Assembly
wrllrn f» to fight for the preset
tion of French interests in this
rich colony. They cannot be
counted upon to fight a danger-
ous, dirty, inconclusive war
which is to end in the abandon-
ment of the French interests in
Asia.”
As a result, the “Herald Tri-
bune” asserts, a crisis is de-
veloping like that which caused
the British tp induce the U.S
to take over their responsibilities
in Greece, or even more like
that which caused the British to
give up their mandate in Pales-
tine and to lay the burden upon
the United Nations. The U.S.
must expect the French Gov-
ernment to do something very
similar unless Uncle Sam can
meet two conditions which are
“exceedingly difficult, if not im-
possible, to meet.”
One condition is that the U.S.
abandon the idea of genuine in-
dependence for Indo-China and
subscribe to the continuation in-
definitely of the essentials of
French imperial authority. The
second condition is that it should
provide enough arms and money
and on a large enough scale and
for a long enough time to keep
that army going and to support
the economy of the region.
“Put bluntly but truthfully,”
the “Herald Tribune” writer com-
ments, “the French Army can
be counted on to go on defend-
ing South-east Asia only if the
Congress of the United States
will pledge itself to subsidise
heavily—in terms of several
hundred million dollars a year
■and for many years to come—a
French colonial war to subdue
not only the Communists but the
nationalists as well.” .
Steadier Korea.
Though Soviet-Inspired Com-
munist raiding across the border
into Southern Korea continues,
it’s now reported to be on a
much smaller scale than it was
last year, when Korea was widely
held to be an even more
threatening danger - spot man
6crlin
In the meantime (according to
an Edinburgh “Scotsman re-
port by Far East expert 0. m-
Green) South Korea’s army,
trained and equipped by
America, has been bmUu p
present force of 100,000 »
and to this must be added som
50,000 police. » it
“Indeed,” declares Green,
is now Syngman Rhee [ Sout^ st
President] who seems
aggressive. ‘We cannot ! S
cries of distress of our
in North Korea,’
a broadcast on Korea
pendence Day in March.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watsen, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
JACKSON
osumjvan
TRADE
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
and at SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
„ Manufacturers of:
JAXUL' WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
„ ELECTRIC USAGES
« national” rotary duplicators
PROTECTa” self-registering tills
PROCESS engravings in one or
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
‘jACKsdt”, BRISBANE
Mm
Vj
V/
mtn.
\\,V
%
yrrsA
m
ICI
Rabbits in their countless millions con-
stitute one of Australia’s most destructive
pests. Good grazing land can be rapidly
turned into barren acreage if these pests
are uncontrolled. Land-owners and sports-
men may make every day’s shooting more
than worthwhile by helping to reduce the
numbers of these vermin.
Eley-Kynoch shotgun cartridges are hard-
hitting and 100% reliable.
TS-lfl
ELEY-KYNOCH Shotgun CARTRIDGES
iM.nm CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED.
, „ rPCO ver North Korea even
of our friends tell
Ifwe must not cherish thoughts
5 Attacking the foreign puppet
°l stifles the liberties of our
”,„nle S the north. 1 This
ShbJoughtarush of Ameri-
can advisers to the Presidents
palace to urge him to drop such
mad ideas.
U.S. Pacific Policy.
Main features of present U.S.
policy for the Pacific fronts of
the “cold war,” summarised
from speeches made by
Secretary of State Acheson over
the past couple of months:
j__“The United States believes
that every people has the right to
be independent, to govern itself,
and to work out its o.wn pro-
blems in its own way. We have
demonstrated this belief as, for
example, in our relations with
the Philippines, with the Re-
public of Korea, and with the
United States of Indonesia.
2 .“The United States believes
in the institution of democratic
government, and encourages the
practice of democratic govern-
ment wherever it is possible to
do so. We have done this in
Germany and Japan. We feel
that the Japanese people have
progressed to a poinfwhere they
deserve a peace treaty which will
give them responsibility for
managing their own affairs, with
certain necessary safeguards.
3 “The United States believes
that free people who are de-
termined to maintain their inde-
pendence are entitled to military
aid which will help them to re-
main free. We have provided
such aid to the Philippines and
Korea, and will continue to pro-
vide it under similar conditions.
4 “The United States, within
the limits of its resources, gives
economic aid, in the form of
loans and technical assistance,
where such aid is wanted and
can help people to help them-
selves. An example of such aid
is the recent Export-Import
Bank loan to Indonesia, and the
programmes of technical assist-
ance which we introduced with
great success in China, Formosa,
and Korea through the Eco-
nomic Co-operation Administra-
tion.
5 “We shall continue to carry
on a vigorous information pro-
gramme, to make known the
purposes and policies of the
United States, and to counter
the campaign of misinforma-
tion and libel that the Com-
munists are waging, not only
among their captive people but
among the free people, who arc
our friends and partners.
6—“ We shall continue to
work through the United
Nations as well as through
direct diplomatic channels, to
encourage the settlement of dis-
putes that endanger peace and
stability. We are hopeful that
the progress now being made
between the Governments of
India and Pakistan will lead to
a full and friendly understanding
between those two great
nations.”
— N. Y. “World-Telegram."
FRESH BAIT-SAME OLD FISHING-HOLE.
Imperilled Persia.
In a London “News
Chronicle” report on Persia as
it is today, a special correspon-
dent puts down 90 per cent, of
its 15,000,000 population as
illiterate, and says that on the
one level there are a few hundred
millionaires and near-millionaires
and at the other millions who
just manage to exist.
In between those extremes
nine-tenths of the country’s in-
come is being spent on main-
taining a huge and mainly useless
force of 1*50,000 Government
officials and' a standing army of
much the same size. Many of-
the officials go to their offices
on the first of each month to
collect their meagre salaries and
spend the intervening periods
dokig other jobs.
“In all this welter of poverty
and eorruption, waste and
oppression,” the writer com-
ments, “it is no wonder that
the Communist bogey looms
large, that the Left-wing
Russian-backed Tudeh party is
outlawed, and that every upper-
class Persian keeps an uneasy eye
on the country’s northern fron-
tiers,” from across which
“spreads a steady, relentless
stream of Communist propa-
ganda, finding fruitful soil
among the depressed and nearly-
starving masses.
“In the south the rich oilfields
and enormous refinery of the
Anglo-Iranian Oi 1 Company
stand as a solid testimonial to
Britain’s stake in this country.
And while American officers
train the overlarge Persian
Army and American advisers and
experts prepare the Seven-Year
Plan which is designed to
modernise and enrich this back-
ward and disorganised land, it
is gradually becoming a market
for American goods.”
Pending results from that
“plan,” however, “Of all the
Middle Eastern countries, with
their down-trodden, under-
privileged, hungry millions
obvious material for Commun-
ism—Persia’s situation is the
most perilous. In the first place
conditions are rather worse than
anywhere else. In the second
she is Russia’s neighbor and the
only obstacle between Russia
and not only her own invaluable
oilfields but also those of Arabia
and Irak.”
Cayenne for Pepper.
Senator Claude Pepper, it ap-
pears, has been copping it hot
round about his native haunts in
Florida, U.S.A.; his political
opponents there having hit on
the artful dodge of circulating a
whispered calumny in which the
unfortunate Senator (“the pom-
pous Pepper,” as N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” unfeelingly refers to
him) is described in the follow-
ing shocking terms:
“Why, J. Edgar Hoover, the
whole F. 8.1. and every member
of Congress knows what Claude
Pepper is”—a breathless pause
—“a shameless extrovert. More-
over, there is reason to believe
that he practises nepotism with
his sister-in-law, and that his
sister has been a thespian in sin-
ful New York. Finally—and
this is hard to believe—it is well
known that before Pepper was
married he regularly practised”
—a more breathless pause —
“celibacy.”
The “Herald Tribune” de-
clares that among some Florida
voters there is much honest in-
dignation at these horrifying
revelations, and “the Pepper
forces are seriously worried.”
Forbidden Reading.
Noting that “the Russians
have published a list of 30-odd
Soviet publications which
foreigners are forbidden to
read,” the list including “such
items as the official bulletin of
decrees, in which new laws are
published, and also various pro-
vincial newspapers and numerous
publications of a scientific
nature,” N. Y, “Herald Tribune”
comments:
“The idea, obviously, is to
restrict still further the access of
foreigners to reliable informa-
tion about Soviet Russia. From
now on, presumably any foreign
diplomat or newspaperman who
acquires and reads a copy of one
of these banned publications
opens himself automatically to
such increasingly familiar
charges as ‘spying’ and ‘activity
against the State.’ ”
As another view, it would
seem to support those who hold
that what’s really wrong with
the Bear is not so much insati-
able greed as incurable fear.
Dragnet Digest.
Scots to Blame. —In the spate of
discussion on “flying saucers,” the
“Yorkshire Post” repeats a canard
that the Scots are the real culprits,
in sending too much whisky to the
U.S.
He H: * *
Problem for J. Bull. —G. M. Young,
reviewing Keith Feiling’s new history
of England: “I think that we should
make up our mind whether in this
New Age we are Europeans living in
an island or islanders looking at
Europe.” On which London “Time
and Tide” comments: “Too' many of
us are islanders still, too few of us
Europeans. How many people of
our vast population reafly grasp the
idea of United Europe and feel them-
selves a part of it? Precious few.”
* * * *
Pacific Magnet. Reference has
already been made here to the
extraordinary movement of U.S.
population towards the Pacific; the
phenomenon has been noted of
Canada also. “No Canadian pro-
vince,” states a “Manchester Guar-
dian” correspondent, “can show such
a proportionate increase in its popula-
tion as British Columbia. The last
census, taken in 1941, placed it at
817,861; a provisional estimate sug-
gests that today it is not far short of
1,200,000. Vancouver has forged
ahead to rank after Montreal and
Toronto as the third-largest Canadian
city. It is a source of weakness in
the provincial economy that [as in
Australia’s capitals] almost one-half
of its total population is packed into
Vancouver and its suburban munici-
palities.”
* * * *
New Dunciad. —Finnish Social-
Democratic Minister, accused of sack-
ing staff from his Department for
political reasons; i.e., being Corns:
“I have only dismissed those who
could not read or write properly, and
I can’t help it if they all belonged to
the extreme Left.”
* * * *
Faith in Nazism— Letter-writer in
“Manchester Guardian”: “A recent
survey of public opinion in Germany
revealed that 65 out of every hundred
former members of the Nazi party
thought that Nazism was a good idea
badly applied and 49 out of every
hundred non-members of the party
thought the same thing.”
* * * *
U.S. Isolationists. —In his Washing-
ton comment in N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” Walter Lippman notes a
considerable change, or relapse, in
the U.S. Republican party: “Vanden-
berg and Stimson represent, and
indeed played the leading part in
forming, the bi-partisan policy of
national unity for war and for peace.
But whereas once they spoke with
authority for the Republican party,
they are now on the outside appeal-
ing and protesting against the men
who have captured the leadership of
the party. The men who have cap-
tured the leadership of the Republican
party are the old isolationists, that
hard core of irreconcilable and
unreconstructed isolationists who
dominated the party from the Hard-
ing administration until Pearl Harbor.”
« * * *
Planners' Terrific Problem. —Already
(reports London “Daily Express’)
British Treasury experts “are in a
prolonged huddle,” about, of all
tremendous things, robins and rein-
deers. According to the Socialist
planners’ regulations, “any pictorial
representation, any decorative pattern
or device, or anything attached by
way of decoration” on Christmas
cards and calendars carries 100 per
cent, purchase tax; otherwise only
33J. So the birds and the beasts
have been having a lean time, pic-
torially speaking. Moreover, a blue
calendar is taxed 33J per cent.; a red
one 100; while a line drawn round
the month also brings a calendar
into the higher class. The huddle of
the planners is to plan how to unplan.
* * * *
Marshall-Aid Success. Overseas
comment marking the end of the
second year, or half-way stage, of
Marshall Aid as good as unanimously
agrees that it has splendid achieve-
ment to its credit so far. As a typical
example, London “News Chronicle”:
“It is seldom that an idea, on how-
ever grand a scale, can work a visible
change in the course of history within
a few years of its inception. Marshall
Aid, however, has already saved the
democratic world from disaster. We
have a long, weary road to travel
yet before we are out of danger, but
we have been given the strength which
should rule out a collapse by the way-
side. Europe’s production has re-
covered. In that recovery lies hope
of complete success for Marshall’s
great conception. To him may come,
before too long, the double satisfac-
tion of victory in peace as well as
war.”


jp
V .
CAN TALK BUSINESS
“yes—
I’ll fly at oncer
Businessmen with global
interests depend on regular
Speedbird air services to all six
continents. They can fly without
delay, swiftly and in comfort —
on one ticket, all the way. They
enjoy 8.0.A.C.’s traditional
standard of service everywhere
'
on 175,000 miles of routes.
No tips, no extras to pay.
FLY BRITISH BY 8.0.A.C.
to almost anywhere
Book from Sydney to Indonesia • far
EAST • HONG KONG • JAPAN • CEYLON
INDIA • PAKISTAN • AFRICA • ITALY
GREAT BRITAIN • AND VIA U.K. TO
U.S.A. • CANADA • CENTRAL AND SOUTH
AMERICA • BERMUDA
£lS>
V<(
FLY-me
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd,
( 8.0.A.C . General Agents in Australia) at Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin or from
Travel Agents in all cities and towns. AI3/AU
Specify 8.0.A.C. “Air Cargo” for your overseas shipments!
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS 'EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
<54 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
That's why more tons are hauled and
more people ride—the world over-on
Goodyear Tyres than on any other make!
super-stamina G°° d
one designed for the
a particular job.
Here are the famous
year work tyres each
best performance on
AUWHEEI
• HI-MIUR
Al l-WEATHER
hi-miler
ALE SERVICE
The actual over-the-road performance recor
oi truck and bus operators, the woridjv^
prove that Goodyear Truck and « ofl
the world's finest. They slan life
the hardest jobs give I ° n^ e f J tfl.Miler
lowest cost per mile. Each na tural
Truck and Bus Tyre is built from
rubber and tough, heat-resisting n tho
—to give maximum perforaianoe. _
world's finest tyres - Goodyear
from your Goodyear Dealer.
GOODYEAR
TRUCK & BUS TYRESy.
SMIKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“The bride travelled in a tailored
dress of maize.” —Country paper.
She escaped the crush of the
milling crowd.
•h *J* ■
“She was accompanied by her baby
laughter, Diana.”
—Melbourne "Herald.”
Not Joy?
4* 4*
“She came to me one day holding
out a joint of meat, and asked: Jls
this lamb or beef?’ ” —"New Idea."
Looking sheepish the while.
“Can anyone do two things at once,
successfully?” —“New Idea.”
After years of practice any
married man can listen and read.
■ 4*
“If possible, go without your
make-up for a few days.”
—Beauty note.
Thereby assisting your pore
relations.
4* 4* 4*
“No doubt sponsors also have
taken quiet suburban strolls at night
and have heard the same glad noises
that auger well for the sale of their
wares.” —Radio paper.
Most people agree they’re
rather boring.
The Answer Pat.
“It’s time someone put in a word
of defence for the teen-agers of today;
This week I heard a middle-aged
matron sailing into the modern girl.’
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Shame an you matrons who
malign
Our modern girls so sweet and
fine
With rouge and lipstick all
bedight
And lightly clad, as is their
right!
Has jealousy so strong a grip
When one is wider in the hip
That youthful zest must be
decried
By those to whom it is denied?
Come, ladies, you’ll not find us
men
Condemning teen-age lasses when
They grace the beach, or sup
and dance
With laughter and flirtatious
glance ;
In fact, I honestly believe
If criticism should make them
grieve.
We men would promptly soothe
their fretting
With sympathy and kindly
petting.
D.H.E.
Nothing Simpler.
“What’s the trouble?” he
asked, an eager light in his eye.
“Starter’s gone phut,” I re-
plied. “Something radically
wrong, I think. Suppose I’ll
have to get Sumpoyle up to fix
it.”
“Don’t be Uncle Willie!” said
Mcßlare scornfully. “What do
you want to cough up ten-and-
a-kick an hour to that chiseller
for just for a simple job like
that. I’ll be right over to fix it.”
He had told me a week or so
“Some garage proprietors have ex-
pressed alarm at the growing number
of motor-owners who do their awn
running-repairs.”
As I pressed the starter-button
and released it there came, not
the usual healthy whirr of en-
gaging cogs, but a faint click.
I pressed again. The same click.
I tried it several times, still with
negative results. Puzzled, I got
out' and, following my usual
practice on such occasions, lifted
the bonnet and peered inside in
a vague way and began gingerly
testing a wire here and there to
see if it had come adrift from its
moorings.
Then a thought struck me. It
might be a flat battery. I got
in again and pressed the horn.
The dog, who was engaged with
an ecstatic, faraway look in
scratching himself, automatically
continued the operation as he
rose in the air at the reverberat-
ing blast. I was again exploring
under the bonnet, and had just
given a tentative tug at what I
hoped was a plug, when a voice
hailed me from the other side
of the dividing fence. I looked
up to see Mcßlare, my neighbor.
“Wait till he settles, professor."
back that he was doing a course
at a night motor-school where
they taught you everything
about a motor. He had urged
me to do it with him. I had
declined, without thanks. Had
I to depend on my mechanical
bent for a livelihood I would, I
frankly admit, be broke. Any-
way, what sort of a mug would
I be to go through such a course
when I had a neighbor who was
going through it!
Within a couple, of minutes
Mcßlare brought in an armful
of tools, including a brace and
bit, a nest of spanners and a
pair of earphones. I asked him
what had happened to the ther-
mometer and the stomach-pump.
Mcßlare and I have been
friendly long enough to indulge
in brutal raillery at each other.
“Very funny,” he said.
“Coming from a mechanical
genius who couldn’t tell the uni-
versal-joint from the accelerator,
that’s choice. Now less magging
and more help from the laborer.
Hand us that oojah there. You
said it was the starter, didn’t
you?”
“No —the non-starter. I have
an idea,” I went on, “the fly-
wheel must have developed a
hot-box, resulting in the crank-
shaft resting too heavily on the
Starter-motor.”
“Hot-boxes!” guffawed my
neighbor. “Only motor-bikes
and windmills get them. Now,
lemme see—the starter-motor’s
under here somewhere. Did they
give you a book of instructions
when you got this mechanical
mess for 250 coupons?”
I got the book out of the glove-
box. Mcßlare opened it at the
wiring design, rapidly tracing
through the maze with his fore-
finger.
“Simple, perfectly simple,” he
proclaimed at last. “First thing
we’ll test is the distributor.
This looks like it here, along-
side this doover with the gadget
leading into it. Hand me that
small spanner, will you?”
“I remember the cove at the
garage telling me that’s the air-
filter,” I said. “I thought it was
the carburetter.”
“You would,” said Mcßlare.
It’s a wonder you didn’t mistake
it for the brake-shoe. Well,
this looks more like it. We’ll
just disconnect those wires com-
ing through here and see what
happens. I wouldn’t be surprised
if this were the trouble. H’m —
don’t know whether they’re com-
ing from the battery or the
timing-gear thing. There’ll be
a diagram showing the order of
firing. Now I have an idea if
we take off a few of those bolts
over there and lift this thing
we’ll uncover the starter-
motor —
“Well, that wasn’t it. I think
we’ll have to take the head off.
I suppose these are thp ni
nght. I think you PH tfh aU
off . . . n 0 t u r puu them
off- Hey. don’t
or you’ll get us all messed S
You know. I have an Sea > P ‘
got to take the sump off? Ve
to the starter-motor. The
deliberately put these thL,
the most inaccessible P S £
try and make you StT to
garage. They work in with „ 3
another, these blanks. G e ? ne
flat tin—-the wife’s baking , a
win do-to drain
Two hours later my neiJ
holding a diaphragm -? b 0 ° n r ’
hand, was expressing wonder
ment what it had off
Some brake-rods, the fe*bdt
and innumerable small n »rl.
littered the lawn. parts
“What did the instructor at
the school say about the
starter?” I asked. in
“Oh, I’ve only had a lesson
or two.” said Mcßlare S
We ve learned to change a
ü ßut J his can’t be
difficult. Now look, the wife
will be dwelling on me— we’re
due out in another hour or so
I’ll fix this in the morning. Once
we locate the business it won’t
take a jiff” ...
A couple of days later I called
in at the garage to square un
the bill —£4 15s. for “re-
assembling.”
“What about the starter?” I
asked.
“Wouldn’t charge for that,”
the garageman said. Then he
added confidentially: “If ever
your starter gets jammed again
just shove the car in gear and
then stand on the running-board
and rock it. It’ll snap back easy
as winking.”
BO.
Camouflage.
The lady moaned: “I can’t bring
down
My bulk—l’m getting bigger.
I wonder would a seamless gown
Give me a seem-less figure?”
B.B.


*****
TRACTORS
PULL BETTER
OH— — C
m
vrniDs
V
\ Cl*
TRADE MARK
FACTORIES: FELTHAM, ENG.;
TOLEDO, 8.5. A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
New Invention Controls
rupture
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
onngs to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
u years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
have tried it.
wfa NE ,°‘BARRERE acts like the
rfSr w **en placed ' flat upon the
You will at once, without
in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
j Dept 27c). 243 Elisabeth St., Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BETTY ELAINE SIMPSON late ef
Hrummoyne.—TAKE NOTICE that ALAN
GORDON SIMPSON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4171 of 1949 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 17th
July 1950 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from the Petitioner’s
Solicitor EDWARD LORENZO EVERETT,
Bank of New South Wales Building,
Bondi Junction. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS STACEY formerly of
Manly.—TAKE NOTICE that DAPHNE
GEORGINA STACEY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 848 of 1950 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for 3 years and upwards
If you desire to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
21st of July 1950 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from JOHN
BARNETT GREAVES, Solicitor, 92 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
I
rji
Hpdui
DODD!
DO tip
QOOfi'
W
Yi
in* W
\
BT APPOfNTH&f
TOBWXDNBTI TO
MO NAIOTT HO CMC
/- SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BEXSOX mj. Hedjges
OLD BOND STREET?LONDON
A lifetime of study may be
given to the art of
choosing the appropriate
from so much which is
just very good. Yet, where
cigarettes are concerned
the name (( Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London ”
is an unfailing guide —•
for all those occasions
when only the best will do.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
RED MILL RUM.
Brisbane racing folk once again
suffered the chagrin of seeing a
southern visitor waltz off with one
If heir richest races when Silver
Buzz took the £12,000 Brisbane Cup
ZZ week, but there was some com-
npnsation for breeders at least, in
was a Queensland-bred horse
ha did ?hV trick. A chestnut geld-
ine by The Buzzard from the Sere-
Sond mare Biddy’s Robe, and there-
fore a full brother to that very honest
galloper of a few years back Katanga,
silver Buzz was foaled at Lyndhurst
Stud, Warwick, in October, 1943.
Although he had not previously
won any really important races, Silver
Buzz had impressed as a likely type
of stayer, showing an ability to plug
along all day and still come with a
strong burst at the finish; in that
fashion he won the Cup. Early,
Silver Buzz was well back in the field,
and he didn’t begin to make up any
ground until the half-mile peg was
passed. Entering the straight, with,
then only five horses ahead of him,
McGrowdie shifted Silver Buzz out
towards the centre of the softish track
and went for the doctor. At the fur-
long mark his brilliant burst had
carried him past the leaders, Playboy,
Spellman and Persist. Benvolo se-
cured a late run through on the rails
and moved up to challenge the leader,
but Silver Buzz ran on strongly to
score by a half-length. Two lengths
further back the three-year-old Spell-
man, who seems a pretty promising
type, just shaded Persist for third
money.
Apart from taking delivery of one
of the handsomest trophies we’ve
sighted, F. H. Bowes, the owner of
Silver Buzz, collected a cheque for
£B4OO. Ip all, Silver Buzz has won
a little less than £12,000 in stakes—
a fair return on the 700 guineas
paid for him as a yearling.
Although she ran a game, honest
race, as she had done also in the
Sydney Cup, Persist has failed in
three attempts at the 2-miles journey,'
and one must assume that that dis-
tance is a shade beyond her. In both
the St. Leger and the Brisbane Cup
the Sydney three-year-old Playboy
made a pretty poor showing. He has
been a similar disappointment on a
couple of visits to Melbourne, yet,
between times, has shaped like a
champion stayer on his home-course,
Randwick. Until he does show some-
thing elsewhere it might be best to
forget Playboy other than in his
home territory.
Benvolo’s minor placing in the
Brisbane Cup must have been a
bitter disappointment for connec-
tions, who had previously seen their
horse bag only a minor cut of the
prize in a Melbourne Cup, a Sydney
Cup and a Metrop., as well as lesser
events. However, they had not long
to wait for a reasonable consolation,
which came when the Fresco four-
year-old won Saturday’s £4OOO More-
ton Handicap, run over 11 furlongs.
The winning of the Moreton was a
typical example of the sort of riding
that has taken Neville Sellwood to
an unbeatable lead in the Sydney
jockeys’ premiership with 54 winners
against his nearest opponent’s 32.
Drawn No. 12 at the barrier in a
field of 14, Sellwood nevertheless had
Benvolo skimming the rails in less
than two furlongs, and from there
to the finish he didn’t cover an un-
necessary inch of ground. The local
performer Forge had won a Doomben
Cup by leading throughout, and he
tried to repeat the dose in the More-
ton; Forge certainly made the pace
a cracker, the final time of 2.16 being
only a fraction outside the course
record, but Benvolo fairly sailed past
him in the straight. Without .offering
any real threat to the winner, Persist
came home in her usual game
manner to also finish ahead of Forge;
margins were 2$ lengths and 2$
lengths.
Despite just missing out on so
many rich prizes, Benvolo has
managed to amass a respectable tally
of stake money—£l4,3oo; he was
obtained for 1100 guineas as a year-
ling. Benvolo is trained by Stan
Lamond, who had his charge looking
an absolute picture on Saturday.
* * * *
To win Saturday’s Goodwood
Handicap in Adelaide the three-year-
old filly Power’s Hope ran the fastest
six furlongs ever recorded in South
Australia. Power’s Hope clocked
1.10$; the previous best for the State
was I.los and for the race I.lls.
Illingerry and Dornoch, vying for
the lead, had the pace red hot right
from the jump. Dornoch ran past
Illingerry on the turn and cleared out
to a three-lengths lead. With half a
furlong to go Dornoch was well clear,
but tiring badly; his rider, L. Lott,
tried desperately to keep him going,
but Power’s Hope, ridden by W.
Attrfll, bridged the gap, and just
pushed her head in front as they hit
the line. It was a rattling good
finish, with Beau Gem third, only a
half-head behind Dornoch. Power’s
Hope is a daughter of Powerscourt,
sire of Comic Court and the other
successful “Comedy” horse.
The Adelaide St. Leger resulted in
another triumph for the filliqs when
Auburn, a daughter of Camelhair-
Golden Fillet, cleared out to down
the hot favorite Glenvue by nearly
five lengths. Auburn had a string
of starts last season without setting
the track on fire, but she has evidently
improved no end with maturity.
Fillies rarely have the best of the
colts in the three-year-old classics,
and when they do they’re usually
worth watching. The last to take the
Adelaide St. Leger was Rainbird, and
she, of course, went on to win her
Melbourne Cup.
* * ♦ *
Two performances stood out in the
rather mediocre racing sighted at
Canterbury on Saturday. One was
W. Cook’s effort in virtually lifting
Dalston to a narrow victory in the
Flying Handicap (7sf.); it would be
difficult to imagine a better piece of
sheer vigorous riding. With 100 yards
or so to go Darelle was two or three
lengths in front of Dalston, who was
making ground, but too gradually, it
seemed, to have a chance of getting
up. However, with Cook putting
absolutely everything into his effort,
Dalston stride by stride inched his
way up to score by a nose. Red
Loch, a three-year-old colt by Red
Sails from the Doric mare Loch Awe,
beat nothing of much account in
winning the Earlwood Mixed (12f.),
but did it in good style, carrying
topweight of 9st. on a very heavy
track. The win took Red Loch out
of Mixed Stakes company, but it will
surprise if he does not continue to
win his share, and one of the more
important handicaps might even be
within his capacity.
Times recorded in other races at
Canterbury give a fair notion of the
state of the track. Course record for
6 furlongs is I.lls, Winning maiden
two-year-old events, Glistening (W.
Cook) and Bankstream (F. Williams)
took 1.20 and 1.20$ respectively.
Over the same journey, the oft-
disappointing Journalist (S. Carter)
for once behaved at the barrier, got
away well and clocked 1.19 in win-
ning the first Welter by several
lengths; the country performer Silique
(V. Lawrence) won the second divi-
sion in 1.20. The New Zealander
Lady Finis (B. Killian) chopped out
9 furlongs in 2.2$ (against a course
record of 1.52) to win the Three- and
Four-year-old, but time three seconds
slower than that was good enough to
see the course specialist Air Flare
(J. Deeley) take the Canterbury Park
Handicap.
* * * *
Grand National tiijne draws on
apace, and Saturday’s Shillabeer
Steeple at Flemington further stressed
a point that has been becoming very
evident in recent weeks; whatever
wins the Grand National Steeple this
year will need to be first and fore-
most a good, safe jumper to survive
the three-miles-odd of the stiff new
fences at Flemington. In Saturday’s
event the big, solid fences claimed
three of the seven runners, and those
who did see out the distance did so
a jolly sight more by good luck than
by good jumping. Despite blunder-
ing, and bungling several jumps, the
hot favorite Benarca was in front
most of the trip, and although Ron
Hall had to ride him desperately all
the way down the straight he lasted
it out to beat Valboy by a head,
As the field went out for the Port
Phillip Hurdle spectators were treated
to the unaccustomed spectacle of a
rider sporting a noble, bushy mous-
tache —and a brightish ginger one at
that. He also sporte.d a handle to
his name, Mr, D. Martin going up
in the semaphore as the rider of his
own horse Finentigue. And, going
to the front from the start, Mr.
Martin led them a merry dance right
up to the last hurdle. In the run
home, however, both Lord Tanti and
the New Zealander Master Diy
gained an edge on Finentigue, Lord
Tanti (B. R. Smith) winning by three
lengths, with a further half-length
to Finentigue. It was Lord Tanti’s
first lash at the jumping game.
With most of the better-class
gallopers either spelling or else pur-
suing the big stakes in Adelaide and
Brisbane, the flat racing at Fleming-
ton was of no particular significance.
The outstanding winning performance
was that of the good mare Saxony,
treated by the handicapper as being
a class above her opposition in the
Goulbum Handicap (13f t ) and very
easily confirming that opinion with a
two-lengths victory over Land Tax
and Dashing Beau. In other events
Bright Law (R. Lindsay) got the
Ovens Handicap (6f.) for two-year-
olds on a protest, Ralton (J. Gil-
more) comfortably accounted for the
outsiders Solray and Damon in the
Southern Stakes (7f.) and Regal Chief
(G. Balsarini) took the Tambo Welter.
* * * ♦
For Randwick (before accept-
ances): —
Two-year-old Novice (fillies): Flag-
staff, 1; Gene Loo, 2; Joy Star, 3.
Three-year-old Novice: Golden Brew,
1; Golden Tan, 2; Salvation, 3.
Juvenile Novice (colts and geldings):
Dashing Romeo, 1; Bankstream, 2;
Tara Lad, 3. Carlton Handicap:
Mona’s Choice, 1; Pyramid, 2;
Ferocious Lass, 3. Flying: Tartan
Girl, 1; Acquittal, 2; Aqua Regis, 3.
Warwick May Handicap: Sir Raven,
1; Roman Step. 2; Lordly, 3.
Moorebank Handicap: Dizzy, 1;
Saville Row, 2; Marine Victory, 3.
* * * *
The R.U. match between Randwick
and Wests last Saturday saw Wests
go down 8-9, despite their forwards
consistently getting the ball back to
their backs from scrums and lineouts.
This is becoming a regular feature
of the game today; possession no
longer is a vital factor. Actually,
teams are more likely to score tries
when the opposing back-line is sup-
posedly attacking than when they
themselves are in possession. It seems
that all imagination has gpne out of
back-line attack; it is a lost art, and
until it is regained—if ever —teams
attempting to attack through their
backs cannot hope for success. A
look at our most successful clubs
today will bear this out: the em-
phasis is on defence. Some years ago
this negative approach would have
been fatal, but nowadays it can be
made with confidence, for not only
can they be assured of thwarting their
opponents’ attempts at attack, but,
in doing so, they also create oppor-
tunities for easy tries from the host
of errors that a frustrated back-line
falls intp. Wests can be thankful
that Randwick did not adopt the
negative attitude of standing up in
close defence, for, had they done so,
their winning margin would surely
have been greater.
In other matches in Sydney, Gordon
beat Parramatta, Norths beat East-
wood, St. George beat University and
Drummoyne beat Manly. Easts had
the bye.
* * ♦ *
St. Kilda is turning in a real rags-
to-rtches performance in the V.FX.
competition. Last season the despised
wooden Spooners, and representing
an easy workout for any other team
feeling in need of a little kicking
practice; this season, so far, three
matches for three good wins. On
Saturday, 18,000 of the 115,000 who
saw the V.F.L. matches watched the
Saints trounce South Melbourne. At
the end of the third quarter Sowth
was leading 9.13-9.3, but the last
quarter saw the Saints scoring freely
to win 15.13-11.15. A comparatively
small crowd turned out to see Foots-
cray plaster Hawthorn to the tune of
13.24-4.9, but other matches attracted
uniformly solid attendances. The
biggest gate came from the 28,000
who saw Carlton beat Collingwood
with not a great deal to spare at
12.9-8.22; Richmond downed Fitzroy,
9.15-8.11; Norths, 12.11, had a fairly
comfortable run with Melbourne,
7.17; and Essendon was even less
troubled to lick Geelong, 18.11-8.16.
* * * *
New South Wales took the major
titles at the Australian rowing
championships in Melbourne on
Saturday, winning the King’s Cup
and, almost as a matter of course
with Merv Wood to represent them,
the single sculls. By the same token,
however, Merv had a pretty close
shave; R. V. Rawlins of Victoria
took the champion to a margin of a
bare foot. With no 3-miles course
available on the Yarra, distance of
the King’s Cup was 2$ miles. The
distance of the Australian champion-
ship eights should, of course, be the
standard Olympic distance of 2000
metres, but the Australian Rowing
Council won’t hear of any proposal
to come into line with the'rest of the
rowing world. Scoring by four
lengths, the N.S.W. eight took the
Cup for the third year m succession,
while Merv Wood’s victory in the
single sculls was his fifth.
* * * *
“Bill Ding”: It is a little startling
to read in a London paper that
among the invited guests of old
cricketers to welcome the West
Indians this summer in London will
be Sydney Barnes, in his seventy-
seventh year. It doesn’t seem so long
ago when he was one of the trium-
virate “B’s” of Test cricket in Aus-
tralia —Barnes, Blythe and Braund.
Writer recollects Barnes as a “pro.”
for Porthill in the North-Staffordshire
League, a team which had talents
enough to win the championship, but
largely due to Sydney’s skill as a
bowler. After that came his associa-
tion with Lancashire, and interna-
tional cricket followed.


to
1
pi
Ml
Rs
when consigning your
everything
points
to
AML & .E
•7 Yean in the Service of the Man on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND. 1863
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE. LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches:— N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Oowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina, Cooma and Deniliquin.
Q’land: Townsville, Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulia, Dirranbandi,
associate agents McPhie & Co Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and
Pittsworth, Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, H. P. Venesa & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Winton. Vic.: Wodonga, Korumburra.
“Phenovis" Worm Remedy
i •
• t
/',//
fim&
m
/
wm
KEEP IT
HANDY—
THE NEW
IMPROVED
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
gdf
from stores, merchants AND
pastoral houses
PHE-2-
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
Cure for Body-strike.
“Dungaree”: This autumn has
brought the worst wave of body-
strike in the memory of sheep-
owners. Several months of
warm, humid, showery weather
was aggravated by serious flood-
ing that cut off flocks from in-
spection and treatment and
caused losses that can only be
guessed at.
Losses would have been
greater but for the work of
C. departmental officers
and other veterinarians in seek-
ing a repellant or protective, in-
secticide. Laboratory experi-
ments by C.5.1.R.0. with D.DT.,
B.H.C. (gammexane), chlordane
and toxaphene proved that
D. used at 2 per cent, gave
longer protection from fly than
did the others. Gammexane at
a strength of 0.5 per cent, was
a close second and better than
chlordane or toxaphene.
While D.D:T. is a good fly-
killer, it does not kill maggots,
whereas gammexane kills both.
V. G. Cole, B.V.Sc., Grazcos’s
veterinary officer at Dubbo
(N.S.W.), began experiments on
western N.S.W. properties based
on the C.5.1.R.0. results. The
two successful insecticides were
used in a variety of forms and
strengths—solutions and dispers-
ible powders —and in the widest
range of distributing mediums
available, including dipping,
spraying by shower-dips, jetting
plants, powered pumps, fire-
fighters, knapsack sprays, stirrup-
pumps and fog machines. An
important point established is
that body-strike is distinct from
crutch-strike and needs a special
technique. The approved opera-
tions can control crutch-strike,
but have little effect on body-
strike.
Results from fogging, so far,
have not been comparable to
other methods. Plunge-dips are
too costly, and there is danger
of soiling fleeces and of putting
through pregnant ewes. Power-
spray dips with certain modifi-
cations are useful. Only over-
head sprays should be used, the
sheep should be packed in more
tightly than for normal dipping,
fine-spray nozzles should be
used and run-off fluid should
not be used again.
The most thorough and eco-
nomical method is to apply the
insecticide as a spray in a broad
strip along the back of each
sheep from head to tail. The
high pressures required for jet-
ting are not necessary—4olb.
nozzle pressure is sufficient—as
the technique aims at wetting
the surface of the wool on which
the fly will alight rather than
forcing the liquid down to the
skin.
C.5.1.R.0. officers collabor-
ated with Cole and conducted
independent experiments on
similar lines. These were inter-
rupted by floods, but sufficient
data were obtained to prove that
body-strike could be prevented
and controlled at reasonable
cost. A power-driven pump is a
necessity to get through the job
quickly. Powered fire-fighters
using hand - controlled spray
nozzles or jetting plants with
five-jet nozzles are also suitable.
Cole discovered that a quart
of 1 per cent, of D.D.T. pre-
pared from dispersible powder
rather than from solutions,
applied thoroughly, would pro-
tect a sheep against body-strike
for at least three weeks and up
to seven weeks or more at a cost
of about 4d. a head. Those using
this treatment went through the
floods and fly-wave without
worry, while neighbors were
unable to cope with the situa-
tion and lost hundreds of sheep.
Gammexane at 0.5 per cent,
also gave several weeks’ protec-
tion, but was slightly dearer than
D.D.T. Accordingly, the tech-
nique recommended is to use
D.D.T. dispersible powder as a
1 per cent, spray (igal. per
sheep) before the fly gets busy
or on the unstruck sheep in a
mob. Struck sheep should be
drafted off or caught and sprayed
with gammexane (0.5 per cent.)
to saturate the strike and all
surrounding wool without shear-
ing. These sheep may also be
sprayed over the back with
D.D.T. or with the same gam-
mexane solution. With regard
to the latter various types of
gammexane emulsions were
used, but a gammexane fly-
dressing concentrate with par-
ticularly good wetting properties
got highest marks.
Results of a C.5.1.R.0. experi-
ment on a Narromine property
show the value of the D.D.T.
protective spray (B. 10/5/’5O).
Final figures aren’t available
(floods interrupted inspections),
but they are expected to illustrate
the value of the treatment. Six
groups, each of approximately
160 sheep, were used. Groups
one, two and three were sprayed
with D.D.T. —from igal. to igal.
per head of 1 or 2 per cent.
Group four comprised untreated
controls running in the same
paddock as groups one, two and
three. Group five was also un-
treated, but ran in another
paddock.
After 10 days of rainy weather
body-strike in the first three
groups averaged less than 2 per
cent., and, curiously enough.
there were fewer strikes in the
1 per cent. D.D.T. than in the
2 per cent, group. Such strikes
as were found were very small
and would probably have
cleared up without treatment.
The untreated sheep running in
the same paddock had 12 per
cent, struck in the 10 days. The
untreated sheep running in the
next paddock had 27 per cent,
strikes in the same period. The
sixth group were all badly struck
at the beginning of the experi-
ment. The strikes were treated
with the gammexane dressing and
the sheep sprayed with D.D.T.
The strikes cleared up quickly
and not one sheep was restruck.
Here is the answer to body-
strike. Prevention should be
“ Gripes — snake-juice! Give us a swig, Bill!”
aimed at, and the spraying of
all sheep before flies become
active should become a regular
part of station routine. The
saving in sheep and in wool in
a year like the present would
exceed £lO million at today s
values.
The Rabbit War.
“Lachlan”: Recently a Syd-
ney daily named nine “guilty”
men as responsible for the
present rabbit plague. The
paper might as well have
blamed Captain Cook. But the
list could have been extended to
include 90 per cent, (or more) of
the farmers and graziers, who
are practising what is referred
to in another industry as absen-
teeism.
On any day in any town will
be found hundreds of country
cars (many thrice weekly). These
are for the most part occupied
by effective rabbiters who would
be more usefully engaged attack-
ing a pest which is costing the
country more than a hundred
millions a year and increasing
soil-erosion. Instead they prefer
to congregate and discuss the
mythical shortage of labor and
wonder what “they” are going
to do.
The landholders who keep
their properties clean (even in
difficult country), destroy all
harbor, rush round after every
rainstorm to attend flood-gates,
maintain boundary-fences (sel-
dom meeting a neighbor), patrol,
dig, dog and trap the lanes and
have actually saved the country
from total infestation are the
real heroes of the campaign.
The P.P, boards are capable
of doing the job, but require
more power to ban the sale of
skins and carcasses, engage more
inspectors and instructors, have
all fines remitted to them, in-
crease rates as required.
No professional trapper or
freezing-works has yet eradicated
rabbits from one property.
When a landholder is con-
victed for “not doing his ut-
most to destroy rabbits” the fine
should be 2s. 6d. per acre first
offence, ss. per acre second con-
viction and £1 per acre for suc-
ceeding lapses.
The task, though great, is not
insuperable, but it requires
I effort, commonsense, co-opera-
tion and a determination to go
straight for the target, overcom-
ing obstacles as they arise. With
these essentials and sufficient
stimulant from the boards the
pest could be reduced to in-
finitesimal numbers within a year
or two.
Wiring the Bee-frame.
“Soc”: Bee-herderS, bickering
on most things when together,
differ most on how to wire the
frame to prevent sagging.
Originally the idea mostly in
favor meant running in an extra
wire to the middle of the top-
bar from each corner. A wired
foundation seemed to supersede
this plan until it was found the
bees, wintering, liked to nibble
the comb away from the verti-
cal struts, starting from the bot-
tom bar. .
The fault can be remedied by
snipping off a couple of inches
from each strut, but this, coupled
with some difficulty always en-
countered in embedding, makes
for eventual discarding and re-
turn to the orthodox foundation.
A good percentage of beemeil
nail in a wooden prop in the
centre of the frame. This un-
doubtedly prevents sag, but chops
up the brood-nest somewhat
and, in extracting, slows up un-
capping. Relief to the vexed
question is promised, I under-
stand, by a Cornstalk man who
is trying the idea of a metal
base. It was tried in U.S.A. a
long time ago and never caught
on.
The Boobialla.
“B.”: It’s also known as
boomeralla, or water-bush, the
botanical title being Myopprum
montanum. It’s one of the best
of the native species for very
dry areas. A lover of sandy
soils, it makes fairly rapid
growth, particularly i n the .
stages. Average height is 10ft. Y
Farmers are using it f n .
hedges about the homLi?
short windbreaks for s h ee n
ornamental purposes. When
droughts come down and eve™
thing else wilts the boobWUfe
the one bright spot of green in
the landscape, and g 8 o«°“
flourishing. Plant it i„ early
spring when you are sure frosts
are on the way out. s
Saving Iron.
“8.J.L.”: Iron roofs and walls
may be easily dismantled with
out damaging the corrugated
iron. Get two old claw-
hammers and place the wide end
of one set of claws over the head
of the nail holding the iron
laying the hammer along the
corrugation. Tap the face of
the hammer with the second
hammer. This will force the in-
side edges of the claws down
and under the head of the nail
When firmly beneath the head
twist the hammer sideways, lay
the second hammer’s handle in
the hollow alongside to act as a
heel, and the nail can then be
withdrawn with a minimum of
damage to the iron. Use old
hammers, as the faces of both
are likely to be damaged.
Blowing It On.
“C.S.”: A test of a “P.R.L
aero” topdresser on Fred Mc-
Intosh’s farm at Berry (N.S.W.)
showed that from a fixed posi-
tion under suitable wind condi-
tions large areas can be top-
dressed with lime or super, by
this method, principle of which
is to make each particle of
material become actually ■ air-
borne before it leaves the
machine and then to blow it
into the atmosphere under strong
pressure. Only a slight natural
air current is necessary to carry
this airborne material consider-
able distances.
Under suitable conditions it is
possible to topdress up to 10
acres from the one position.
This means that inaccessible
ridges and hills can be top-
dressed, and by intelligent use
of wind an operator can control
the quantity to within a few
pounds variation per acre.
The machine is mounted upon
truck or sledge, and by means
of a turntable can be traversed
through 360 deg. The machine
can also be used for seed-sowing
by the attachment of a small
seed-box. It can also be used as
an elevator for putting gram
silage into bins.
J. N. Whittet, of N.S.W.
partment of Agriculture, s
“Extremely hilly area B alway
present difficulties in topdressmg
and the P.R.L. machine appears
to be particularly useful for
work. The Department of Agn
culture is very interested.
Clover Is Still Good.
“Howie Wing”: After J^ t o
of praise, sub. clover JJJJJ *
have fallen under suspicion


KUCHING’S
travel goods
SPECIALISTS
6«
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
■
•O'
\
BLEMISHES
Spots, roughness
and soreness mar
the beauty of
skin and com-
plexion! Use Cuticjira
Soap regularly its
antiseptic and medicinal pro-
perties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio—Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder.
.
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLIPPER" Ready
Rubbed Aromatic Fine Cut Blended
from Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz.
Packs. Priced 24/- per lb. or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON,” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Talley P. 0., Brisbane.
CASH WITH ORDER.
PROMPT DESPATCH.
Speeial Quotes Retailers For Orders
201bs. or Over.
us prove it on pour burnt
JOB TOO TOUCH
FOR THE
\
«»“ ij
CRAWLER
■v:
25/33 H.P. 32/40 H.P.
TRACTOR
m
1
i
B
m
Before making any decisions about a new tractor ...see your nearest
Loyd distributor,.,ask him to arrange a Loyd demonstration under
your own conditions ...on your own farm. Let us say right here , such
a demonstration places you under no obligation whatsoever.
The Loyd is an all-weather, all-the-year-
round tractor. Mud, sand, clay, under-
growth, roots or saplings make no differ-
ence to its broad tracks. Maximum speed
of 7 m.p.h. . . . ample power to do every
job under the worst conditions... economy
of fuel as low as three quarters of a gallon
of Diesel fuel per hour . . . the Loyd
Crawler is the ideal tractor for the
Australian farmer.
Every class of broadacre farming,
orchard work, breaking new country, cane
farming, logging, dozing, grading, scrap-
ing, loading, back-filling, excavating,
winching or road building, the Loyd
Crawler will do the job
BETTER! FASTER! CHEAPER!
The Loyd will outpull any other tractor of
equivalent horsepower!
See or write to your nearest Loyd Distributor,
NEW SOUTH WALES: Loyd Tractors (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.. 82a Parramatta Rd., Camperdown.
QUEENSLAND: Norton Tootill Pty. Ltd., 112 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Loyd Tractors (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Power Handling (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 61 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Draytons Ltd., Bassendean, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: John Chambers & Son Ltd., Branches throughout New Zealand.
Loyd Sales and Service available throughout Australasia.
COMMONWEALTH FACTORY REPRESENTATIVE* New Zealand Export Co., 104 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
22/3/’5O). It is true that sub.
Ler makes acid soils moie
“S It seems also that after
many years of clover pasture the
S contains less minor
elements and sometimes less
nntash In some districts, sheep
fhat graze on sub. are more
liable to certain diseases.
Increased production brings
certain 'problems, however the
increase is obtained. All pro-
duce sent off the farm is a loss
to the soil, and the more you
send the more you lose. The
only exception is the carbon part
of the product, which is obtained
from the air by the green leaf.
Most expensive item in animal
food is the nitrogenous protein,
and to supply this we look to the
legumes, which receive nitrogen
of atmospheric origin from their
associated bacteria. Legumes
are particularly stimulated by
phosphates, which are relatively
cheap to apply. The sub.-clover-
super. programme solves the
protein problem and so enables
large quantities of animal pro-
ducts to be sent to market.
But these products contain
other elements besides phos-
phates and nitrogen, and eventu-
ally these elements must be re-
placed, or trouble will follow.
It is not a question of sub. clover
or any other legume “impairing
the soil.” It is a question of
simple arithmetic. The manufac-
ture of superphosphates con-
taining minor elements is
already past the experimental
stage.
Where clover seed is harvested
for sale, potash is apparently
robbed from the soil. Vendors
of seed should remember this
and manure accordingly.
In W.A. it has been found that
infertility and other disorders
of sheep are associated With pure
sub. clover pastures. This is a
fault not of the clover but of
stockowners who do not realise
the elementary fact that animals
need a varied diet. Wimmera
ryegrass and Phalaris tuberosa
are suitable grasses to balance
the ration.
As for the acidity often as-
sociated with legumes, does it
matter? Virgin forest soils are
usually acid, yet they produce
good crops. It has been known
for centuries that clover land,
when ploughed, yields a good
harvest of grain.
Hints for the Farm.
“Rooster”: Trim up rhubarb
during May. All wilted and
yellowing leaves should be cut
away, but be careful not to
damage crowns or buds. Fork
in about four inches of stable-
manure and give each plant
about loz. of blood-and-bone.
Spread a good thick mulch of
straw over the crowns. If the
crowns have been yielding for
five years or more, they Should
be lifted and re-planted.
“Big Billy”: A 2ft. pip© 3ft.
long makes an excellent trough
if placed on its end and floored
with concrete. Clear grass and
surface soil from an area slightly
larger than the outside diameter
of the pipe and sink it to a con-
venient height above green level.
Level soil inside pipe,
thoroughly wet inside 6-Bin. up
from the bottom edge and paint
with neat cement. Run in a 3-
4in.-thick floor of No. 1 con-
crete, spreading well. After
setting, run a 2in, filler around
the join of floor and pipe, using
two parts of sieved-sand to one
of cement.
“Billjim”; Lupins make valu-
able fodder on lighter soil where
turnips don’t do so well. They
provide nutritive feed and are
pnore resistant to frost and insect
attacks than the average fodder
crop. Other attributes are their
value in introducing nitrogen to
the soil and as green manure,
“Dick Turpin”: A plane
arrived in Sydney from Amster-
dam on April 23 with six skilled
farm workers who plan to take
take jobs with farmers before
taking up land for themselves,
Netherlands Consul-General
Jonkheer Van Swinderen said
that Dutch authorities expected
at least 6000 Dutch migrants to
come to Australia this year;
many of them would be farm
workers. The migrants already
arrived are very good types, and
include a variety of professions
and trades. All paid their own
passages.
“Sam”: Methylated spirits can
be saved when lighting a primus
by placing a tin over the burner,
Cut both ends from a 11b. pow-
dered-milk tin, punch 10 |in.
holes round close to one end.
Half-fill the cup, light and place
tin with the holes down over the
burner. Tin is easily removed
by grasping at the bottom,
which is cool. The primus will
operate with tin left on in a wind
that would normally extinguish
the flame.


mm
■
<:t. :C
r
UOU,
GLnaiuwi §kx|ic
TOPS IN
TRAVEL
TO CANADA
UNITED STATES
ENGLAND
}~y>
m
ii
STOP OVER AT HONOLULU IF DESIRED
Fly across the Pacific in luxurious Canadian Pacific 4-engined
pressurised airliners. “Loungaire” reclining chairs give more
seat room per passenger than in any other aircraft
Enjoy delicious meals superb service. You sleep ashore
at Fiji and Honolulu. Hotel room and meals at no extra cost*
You fly relaxed arrive refreshed when you go Canadian
Pacific style. Through fare in Australian currency.
★ For further details apply Canadian Pacific Railway
Company, or Union Steam Ship Co. (General
Agents), 2)7 George Street, Sydney, and 59 William
Street, Melbourne, or any authorised Tourist Agency,
GoutoufioH
AIRLINES V
“THE WINGS OF THE WORLD'S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM*
Canadian Pacific Air Lines Limited Incorporated in Canada
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALPHONSO AMBROSE BRICE late
of No. 179 Oxford Street Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that COLLEEN PAT-
RICIA BRICE has filed a Petition for
Divorce (No. 995 of 1950) on the ground
of Desertion without just cause or excuse
for 3 years and upwards If you intend to
defend you may enter an Appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 17th July 1950 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. J. KIELY, Solicitor,
17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUOHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR JAMES* ERNEST Mc-
MAHON late of Newtown.—TAKE
NOTICE that GLORIA MAY McMAHON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 865
of 1950 on the ground of desertion for 3
years and upwards without • just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an Appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
10th day of July 1950 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from FRED
A. NEWNHAM, Solicitor, 28 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SfoAtt-BRITISIf
&
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
gd
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd. f
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
TAILING
STUD LAMBS
ip
ii
«
it
Leading breeder recommends
EIASTRAIOR
Mr. Ivor Manton of Monegeeta,
Viet., who bred the champion
Romney Marsh Rams at the
R.A.S. Melbourne in 1948 and
1949, also champion Ram A. 5.8.
Melbourne 1949, has no doubt
about the value of Elastrator
for stud tailing. He says:
“ I believe we were one of the first Studs
to adopt the Elastrator for tailing lambs.
This is effected when the lamb is from one
to three days old—at tagging time.
In a flock of 550 registered breeding Ewes,
we have never lost a lamb, even though the
property’s altitude is between 1500 ft. and
2000 ft., and the winters bitterly cold. Most
tagging is done in July and August, and on
two occasions it was snowing.
I am sure the Elastrator results in a shorter
and better finished tail.”
ELASTRATOR
(REGD. TRADE MARK)
for Bloodless, Safe, Humane
CASTRATION & TAILING
OF
LAMBS & CALVES
From station suppliers
and stores. Instrument, £5/5/-
Latex Rings, 25/- per box of 500 ('- a r
City Prices.)
Distributed in Victoria, Southern
Kiverina and Tasmania by
D. G. OFFICER PTY., LTD.,
90 William Street, Melbourne, and
123 a Charles Street, Launceston.
Distributed in Queensland by
TAYLORS ELLIOTTS PTY.,
LTD.,
Brisbane —Rockhampton—Townsville.
Distributed in
ELLIOTTS BUBAL L AlJg i.
tobies, blliotts ltD
Distributed ITB''
BENNETT & Bra**<*
4 Currie St., Adelaide,
Distributed in West Australia by
DAVID GRAY & CO.. DTD..
2-10 Railway Parade, West Pertn
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Copy of “Nine Miles from Gun-
dagai” by Jack Moses; also earlier
verse on Bullocky Bill of Conroy’s
Gap on which Jack Moses based his
verse.—4832.
To buy copy of Invasion, by Erie
Cox.—4831.
To buy copy of The Crisis, by
Winston Churchill, and The Valiants
of Virginia, by Mrs. Emile Rivers. —
4830.
Information Sought.
How to waterproof unbleached
calico and heavy cotton garments by
the sugar-of-lead and powdered-alum
process ?
Waterproofing is usually done after
the garment has been made up, but
it is advisable to shrink the material
before making so that there is no
loss in the proofing process; shrink-
ing is merely laying in cold water
for 24 hours and hanging up in folds
over the line without wringing, then
pressing lightly when almo.st dry.
For the waterproofing, place £lb. each
sugar of lead and powdered alum in
a bucket of soft water, stir at inter-
vals until it is clear, then pour olf
into another bucket and immerse the
garment. Leave for 24 hours, then
hang out to dry on a hanger without
wringing. There are prepared water-
proof dressings on the market,
simpler to handle.
* * * *
Reason for dark stains on concrete
paths, and how can they be removed ?
Dark marks on concrete paths
which have been down for some con-
siderable time may be due either to a
delayed action by organic material or
certain inorganic materials which
were originally present in the con-
crete aggregates, or may be due
simply to a lichen growth, which is
likely to appear after prolonged wet
weather, where staining is due to
the first of these causes its removal
may be difficult, if not impossible.
Where it is simply due to lichen
growth, however, it is suggested that
the effected areas of the path be
thoroughly wire-brushed and then
washed with a weak muriatic acid
solution or with a weak solution of
a soluble copper salt. In either case
the solution should be left on for
only a few minutes, and the path then
thoroughly washed with a copious
quantity of clean water.
* * * *
What is the Baconian theory?
It is the theory that Francis Bacon
wrote the plays attributed to Shak-
speare. It was started, apparently, in
the middle of the 18th century, and is
based partly on (supposed) internal
evidence in Shakspeare’s plays (the
knowledge displayed and the vocabu-
lary) and partly on external circum-
stances (the obscurity of Shakspeare’s
own biography). Some holders of the
theory have found in the plays
cryptograms in support of it, e.g., in
the word
in Love’s Labor’s Lost, Act V, scene 1.
Among prominent supporters of the*
theory, some of them American, may
be mentioned Lord Penzance ( Judicial
Summing Up), Sir T. Martin (Shak-
speare or Bacon), I. Donnelly ( The
Great Cryptogram), Mrs. Gallup
(Bi-Literal Cypher), Sir G. Greenwood
(Shakspeare Problem Restated) and
Sir E. Darning-Lawrence ( Bacon Is
Shakspeare and The Shakspeare
Myth).
* * * «
What is the International Bank?
It is an agency of the United
Nations Organisation and its full title
is the International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development. It was
established on December 27, 1945,
when 28 nations signed the articles
of agreement drawn up at the Bretton
Woods conference in July, 1944. Its
purposes are to assist in the recon-
struction and development of eco-
nomies of rrtembers by making loans
directly and by promoting private
foreign investments to promote the
balanced growth Of international
trade and to maintain equilibrium in
the balance of payment.
* * * *
Some hints on the feeding of cats ?
The cat should be fed twice daily—
at breakfast-time and at tea-time—
and should have not less than 3oz.
of raw beef at each meal. For variety
it can also be given cooked meat, fisn
and rabbit (either raw or cooked) and
table scraps. A cat which has kittens
to feed needs an extra amount of
food. Do not give rabbit, poultry
or fish containing bones; they may
stick in the gums or throat. Liver
should not be given often, as it
causes purging. Do not give much
salt meat (such as corned beef) or
salt fish. Most cats like milk, but
they need water, so a dish of clean
water should be available to the cat
at all times. Food should never be
left lying about; what is not eaten
should be removed, and nothing
offered until time for the next meal.
All dishes used for its food should
be kept clean. Every cat should have
access to grass, which is indispensable
to its good health.
Brief Answers.
E.H.M.: Royal Australian Histori-
cal Society, History House, 8 Young-
street, Sydney... .V.8.P.: The Direc-
tor, Museum of Technology and
Applied Science, Harris-street, Syd-
ney, will supply literature on the sub-
ject C.M.8.: The plane is tough
and persistent, and it will be neces-
sary to spray, fork and pull and keep
the area dry during the summer to get
an effective control of it 8.J.8.:
(1) No record of an aboriginal tribe
bearing that name. (2) None of the
standard reference books mentions any
such ceremony J.K.: If the words
were aboriginal they were possibly
those of a Victorian tribe, but there
was no adequate study of any Vic-
torian aboriginal language, and we
have been unable to trace any clue as
to the meaning of the phrase in any
of the incomplete vocabularies....
F.W.J.; Used and unused postage-
stamps in bulk are classified for Cus-
toms purposes as “unspecified” and
are free from Customs charges when
imported from any country
K.H.F. : (1) The alcoholic content of
Australian beer is approximately 3.8
p.c. by weight or 4.7 p.c. by volume
equal to 8.3 p.c. proof spirit by
volume. (2) The alcoholic content of
N.S.W. and Victorian beers is approxi-
mately the same... .D.A.W.: Akoo-
nah, “running water”; Barawara,
“canoe”; Broula, “place of trickling
water”; Bundilla, “place where waters
meet”; Iterala, “on the bank of a
creek” T.D.: The curator of an-
thropology at the Australian Museum,
Sydney, will be pleased to inspect the
specimen if you bring it to him....
F.C.0.: (1) According to the latest
edition of the “Statistical Bulletin”
issued by the Commonwealth Bank
the greatest amount ever reached by
note issue was £23.1 millions in De-
cember, 1949. (2) The total of note
issue as at March 22, 1950, was £225
millions C.A.8.; If the cqat is a
good one best plan is to send it to a
furrier for retreatment. For home
treatment remove lining, buttons, etc.,
and work glycerine into the skin side
with a blunt chisel-shaped piece of
wood, rubbing it in until the surface
is dry and working the skin in the
hands. If glycerine seems too sticky
add a little warm water. Neatsfoot-
oil is also suitable. It is rather a hard
job for the amateur W.W.: June
22 will be the shortest day in 1950 in
Australia and the longest day in
England. December 22 will be the
longest day in 1950 in Australia and
the shortest day in England....
L.M.G.: Kelley’s Sheep Dogs: Their
Breeding, Maintenance and Training
(17s. 6d.), obtainable from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS, No liability is undertaken te
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be
addressed to the Editor.
V.O’C.: She seems just a normal
gabbling woman, even if Eric didn’t
like her....P.M.: Hard for us to
say, but —it’s too tough for u 5....
D. 0.: No ruined abbeys here —
they’re hardly up yet P.H.: Your
schoolboys appear to be quite plea-
sant mediocrities —why shouldn’t they
become doctors? L.A.: It takes
more than bones to make a readable
detective story K.E.G.: Not bad,
but after all you merely saw a snake
and failed to kill it R.A.C.: “Big
Joe’s Motor-bike” has been back-fired,
R.O’H.: More political than
literary.. . .0.J.: It begins well, but
ends with that ancient gag about the
victim’s ghost scaring the murderer to
death R.A K • it’.
Kapiperin coSdn’t and
a r eason able story. jj e vf appear in
the wind rustling in the S hen^ aybe
the water rippling on th* • aks and
a perfect acajmplnhnem ” h made
Bellerive: Quite b a I".oUrnful-
scene: v a domestic
. ...A.Z.J. and L. 8.; Micht „ „
m the dailies AEH- “h We
Don’t Have To Be Perfect”
short stories should try! Np?
v u A . an w Tu , ngo not for us. :;
E.G.S.. We have no truck with
winking cows .. .N.L.: Back to you
goes your unbaptised boy rbr .
Daydreams are off... .H.G.T wl
hadsometh.ng like it recently. _
8.b.H.. The Bolting Horse” k
good enough as far as it goes-which
is back h0me....P.M.: It is almost
impossjbb to expand an epigram .
E.T.. Father plays the gumleaf and
son gets lost—you make no valid
connection of these two interesting
phenomena M.E.P.: Your fire 8
alarms strike a false note... ERR ■
You’ll never write a good 'hinny
story with -people called Crackle-
wurzel; you must be very simple and
serious, like Mr. Chifley....H.T:
The little boy was one of' those
happy people who should have no
history....M.G.: We liked the race
in the sulkies, but the story didn’t
hold together very v^ell.
THE MOUSE.
In the kitchen of
Our old time house
hrom its burrow emereed
A sharp little mouT Sd
It scented about for
Something to eat.
But from our cat
Bid quickly retreat,
ter i_ a ,? ar T ow escape.
The bold little mouse
She i tere u and safe
Well under the house.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TAS-
MANIA—In Divorce.
Launceston District Registry.
TO AMELIA HOLTON formerly of 2
Corlettie Street Cooks Hill Newcastle in
the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that * a Petition has been filed
in this Court endorsed with a notice to
you to appear and answer the charges
in the petition of JAMES JOHN SIDNEY
HOLTON of No. 243 St. John Street
Launceston in the State of Tasmania
praying for a dissolution of his marriage
with you on the ground of desertion In
default of you so appearing yon will not
be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said peti-
tion proved and pronounce judgment in
respect thereof AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
within Thirty days after tire date of
this publication an appearance must be
entered at the Principal Registry of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania, Macquarie
Street, Hobart, or at the Launceston Dis-
trict Registry, Cameron Street, Launces-
ton, — (l.s.) D. W. SHIELDS, Acting
District Registrar. N. 8 .: Friends of the
abovenamed AMELIA HOLTON who may
see this advertisement are requested to
bring it under her notice. •
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TAS-
MANIA— In Divorce.
Launceston District Registry.
TO BERNARD KENRICK GIBBONS of
~0- 11 or 73 Thistlewaite Street South
Melbourne in the State of Victoria. —
TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been
nled in this Court endorsed with a notice
to you to appear and answer the charges
’"the Petition of NANCY LAVINIA
WBBONS of No. 92 Frankland Street
Launceston A n the State of Tasmania pray-
for a dissolution of her marriage with
• f ° u , on the ground of desertion In de-
rauit of you so appearing you will not
oe allowed to address the Court and the
tfurt proceed to hear the said peti-
tion proved and pronounce judgment in
SP e T c t thereof AND TAKE FURTHER
, ytfCE that for the purpose aforesaid
’n- n Thirty days after the date of this
puDiication an appearance must be en-
** at sle5 le Principal Registry of the
Court of Tasmania, Macquarie
tr; * : Hobart, or at the Launceston Dis-
, glstl T- Cameron Street, Launces-
D - W - SHIELDS, Acting
Registrar. N. 8.: Friends of the
abovenamed BERNARD KENRICK GIB-
_ "bo may see this advertisement
equested to bring it under his notice.
Mary
Roberts Rinehart
on Spiritualism
. d always scoffed at
P ritualism . . , yet she kept
r Promise when her beloved
husband died.
f Reader’s Digest,
p. author Mary Roberts
tells the mysterious
w Ven awes °me ~ things that
trio^ e ? e<i to her when she
hn„K * j get in touch with her
w and through mediums. She
never able to explain them
can you?
aW k- is 3ust one of the 30
thk mg articles io
stiii ?° nth ’ s Reader’s Digest—
valL Au f talia ’ s behest reading
j) en „ at one shilling and six-
is- 0» sale at all news-
ts and bookstalls.
IMOOIII
INDUSTRIAL
PACKINGS &
JOINTINGS
j!„ facilitate ordering , /. C LVDOWICI & IXO.
will gladly supply on request a specification sheet that
covers every vital factor to ensure satisfactory service
in the application of all types of Packings . IPs a free
J.C.L. Technical Service write for your copy to-day I
s ,in«ETie
RUBBER
* !Lf
Ludowici’s range of Industrial Packings and Jointings
now covers Industry’s full requirements. In addition
to our universally recognised line of Leather Packings
for hydraulic and pneumatic applications, we maintain
a complete range of high and low pressure steam pack-
ings and jointings in both Australian and imported
brands.
We also supply a full range of rubber and synthetic
rubber, packings, gaskets, dust excluders and the
approved Flu-Seal oil and grease retainers.
fg
X C. IVDOWia & SON ITD,
117 YORK ST.. SYDNEY. BX 5841. 20-28 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE. MX3IOI-3
. „ ... .„ LL p # rnnvevor and Elevator Belting • Round Leather Belting • Textile Leathers •
Leather Belting • Rubber Belting uLu c n(W | Grinder Belts • V Belt Drives • Industrial Clutches • Pla«
Belting Accessories • Leather Packings J'P shafting Couplings • Shafting Hangers • Microid Bearing Metals
Bearings • Anti-lotion Beards • w # Ludowici Piv t Drive •
Sa P S°ed S G*Com portion •lL Industrial Plastics t Industrial Gloves • Rubber Hose •
Lemcol High Quality Trucks. Wheels, Castors, etc. _________
machine was of the kind m-
Sled in base camps towards the
end of the war, causing troops
o remark, as they ran their
fingers around the carborundum-
fiS inferior ol this thing that
coked like a small washing-
machine, how like the Army it
was to get hold of such a
masterpiece when the war was
° V Mr. Constantine found the
fish perfectly scaled and with-
out a bruise. Modified versions
of the potato-peeler were taken
on by the fishing industry, and
the concerns dealing with snap-
frozen fillets find that one man
operating a descaler can easily
keep pace with 12 expert
fiHeters. , . - ,
When handling whole fish it
is essential to get them from
water to market as quickly as
possible, and one immediate
answer seems to be by air-
freighting. However, there are
traps all along this line of
thought.
The fish must be made cold
and kept cold, if possible at 32
deg. Fahr. Dry-ice is out, since
that added weight would make
the air-freight cost prohibitive.
Therefore the .fish must be
packed in some form of insu-
lated container, such as the local
product “Carieite.” Such a-con-
tainer will keep the fish in good
preservation for 24 hours, after
which deterioration is rapid.
If there are weather delays,
and Australia’s coastal weather
provides plenty of them, these
fish-containers cannot be re-
cooled effectively, since the insu-
lation slows down the process so
much that the centre area of
fish will deteriorate before it can
be cooled again.
With the weight of the con-
tainers added to the weight of
fish, which must be unpacked
and iced as soon as they reach
their destination, the cost of air-
freight must be enormous.
Ordinary fish could probably not
stand this cost, and luxury
items like oysters seldom accu-
mulate in one centre in volume
sufficient to meet this cost.
So, as far as our internal
marketing is concerned, the
supply of whole fish must still
travel packed with ice in trucks
and then in slow-moving re-
frigerated rail-cars, and folk who
live in inland areas can still ex-
pect to see the wall-eyed beauties
in their fishmonger’s window
for some time.
Fish-canning
There is,<»of course, one very
familiar method of keeping fish
indefinitely without ice—to be
seen on the shelves of any
grocer’s shop—and those who
produce this Australian canned
fish say they are doing very
well.
Fish-canning interests received
a tremendous boost from Ausi
tralia’s responsibilities for feed-
ing Pacific troops during the
war. The canners now deride
the suggestion that limited sup-
plies of raw materials available
to them will prevent normal ex-
pansion. They intend to go
ahead developing those species
of fish now available and con-
centrating on building up the
tuna industry as more of that
fish becomes available next sea-
son. They know that the most
important influence on their
own future is their ability to pro-
duce quality articles of world
class,
Australian Fishing Industries,
which this year was amalga-
mated with Green’s Products,
Ltd,, entered the canning game
with a mighty splash.
At Cattle Bay (Eden), A.F.I.
built a concrete wall around the
beach-front and a jetty 530 ft.
long and 20ft. wide. They filled
in a lagoon, removed a major
sandhill, built ice-works, a cold-
store, a cannery, a Canadian
smoke-house, a quick-freezer,
slipway engineering facilities, a
boat-building shop, a large
ship’s-chandlery store and a can-
teen. The company also built
houses for its staff and a large
dam for water-supply.
In the jetty there are over 100
turpentine piles that were carted
150 miles. The bricks for the
whole plant were carted 80
miles. A timber-mill had to be
financed and set up. Equip-
ment and plant were taken by
road to Eden, 330 miles.
The main jetty is floodlit at
night, and the fishermen can un-
load their catch, see it weighed
and receive payment for it in a
few minutes. Ice is crushed into
their boats at any hour of the
day or night.
Today there are 17 fish-can-
neries in Australia in addition
to several firms such as Oliver
Food Products, Harry Peck and
Co. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., and
Kraft-Walker Cheese Co. Pty.,
Ltd., which process other fish
products, like fish-loaf and fish-
pastes.
Crayfish
There is another potential
dollar-earner that lives about our
coast: the humble cray. For
many years South Africa has
been exporting crayfish to the
United States and Europe, and
it is a species of cray common
in our waters. African exporters
had found that just the tail of
the crayfish, from which the
colon and its contents had been
removed, survived the trip best.
South Australia sent a few tons
of Australian cray-tails _ to the
U.S. three years ago. Since then
our export production has grown
from nil to a million-dollars’-
worth a year, and we are
America’s fourth-largest sup-
plier.
Quite apart from potential
markets in the United Kingdom
and Europe, America alone can
absorb the total world catch of
crayfish. When Australia began
exporting tails the U.S. market
had been exploited within cer-
tain limited channels. The only-
big supplier was South Africa,
which had switched most of its
catch to the U.S., where it was
taken up at good prices.
South Africa held a tight
monopoly in the U.S., so as soon
as American buyers who had
been unable to get part of the
South African marketing
organisation heard that large
quantities of good-quality cray-
tails were available from Aus-
tralia they scrambled for a share
of that trade. Our export in-
dustry began in a fine atmosphere
and began to expand.
Some mistakes were made.
Criticism was levelled at early
Australian packs of cray-tails. It
was found that the tails had not
been graded for size, nor was
there any indication on the out-
side of the pack of the number
of tails inside. Just as South
Africa had found, some of our
early shipments arrived in poor
condition, and for a while the
demand for Australian cray-tails
fell away. It is good, then, to
note that now the leading cray-
tail packs leaving Australia for
the U.S. are equal to the best
produced anywhere.
In general, our fishing industry
could be best compared with the
lone hand-line fisherman on the
beach. It shares his peculiar
type of optimism and is feeling
lucky. Up to now it has been
tiddlers, but he just felt the tug
of a big one.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
‘‘Lotteries and Hospitals”
Surely the great curse of the lottery,
or any other kind of public gambling, is
the encouragement —if not incitement—rof
the individual to spend without limit to
the bottom of the purse.
A week or so back I stood in the rain
at the corner of Wynyard- and York-
streets (Sydney), watching the stream of
lottery “fans” emerging from the State
Lottery office.
An elderly man, seedy and down at
heel, stopped a yard or two away, seem-
ingly, quite oblivious of the rain or his
surroundings. Digging into a waistcoat-
pocket he unrolled a packet of paper and
gazed at it—four lottery tickets. From
another pocket he brought another four
tickets. He set them side by side and
stared at them hard. Then gathering both
slips in his left hand, he pinned the two
strips together end to end and had an-
qther look at them. Finally, holding the
long strip in his one hand, he solemnly
crossed himself, folded the packet away
in a wallet, and moved on.
* Something for nothing! Australia is
not very far from the level of some Latin
lands where great numbers of people live
for nothing else but a chance in the
numerous lotteries and —as one of them
once told me —“would sooner be chained
to a ghost than work.” —A. J. H.
(N.S.W.).
The Indonesian Mess
The troubles in Indonesia cause no
surprise to those who have lived among
Asiatics vested with authority in s.-e. Asia.
Ability to make impassioned political
orations does not necessarily imply ability
to govern, as has so often been demon-
strated in history, and the leaders of the
Indonesian Federal Government do not
enjoy the respect and confidence of the
elder and more experienced members of
the community. Nepotism, graft and
worse may be expected to ensue.
Causes of unrest in s.-e* Asia are patent
to any intelligent observer, and may be
summarised as follows: (1) High cost of
rice, the most important factor of all; so
long as rice is sold at a price nearly 10
times that of pre-war so long will there
be trouble. (2) High cost of govern-
ment. Widespread discontent is felt at
the astronomical increases in Government
employees, many of whom are completely
unfamiliar with the problems of the areas
under their control, and of the languages
spoken. (3) The result of Japanese occu-
pation, with the propaganda, “Asia for
the Asiatics,” which struck root in many
of the younger generation of Asiatics.
While it would be hard to suggest an
immediate cure for all these ills, it is at
least probable that, if all the money now
squandered on commissions, committees
and on unnecessary and redundant Gov-
ernment departments were utilised to
stabilise and reduce the cost of rice, there
might well be no small measure of im-
provement in the general situation, which
is of more than academic interest to
Australia.—Ex-P.-0.-w. (W.A.).
“Farmers Doing Nicely”
I agree with “Harry the Horse” (B.
22/3/’5O). I am a farmer and I can safely
say that 90 per cent, of the farmers I
have spoken to on this matter of ex-
change agree that now is the time to do
the right thing. From our point of view
the farmers would welcome it right now,
and it would have no ill effect on their
bank balances. What they all seem to
want to know is, why is it not done right
away, and quickly, and why some of these
patriotic gentlemen in charge of affairs
seem to be so much against “a rate of ex-
change which cannot be justified in the
face of the high prices being paid for
wheat and wool.” — Central West
(N.S.W.).
Fabulous prices for land products are
of recent origin. The last war ushered in
3s. wheat, rising later to 45., with, acreage
restrictions. The wool-appraisement
scheme began with the price fixed at
13-point-something pence, with a
tuppenny rise later* Who got the rake-off
on this undervalued wool? Very little
came to the woolgrower.
The fixed home price for wheat is
benevolence for all except the wheat-
cocky. Imagine the squeals if the local
price of wheat, and other primary pro-
duce, was raised to the export price. The
great Australian public, robbed of the
cheapest loaf in the world, would long
for file bowed corrugated backbone that
had supported them so long. That back-
bone still carries the load and will do so
for many years yet, with or without the
help of the taxpayers’ money. In-
cidentally, these bloated agriculturists
are probably now the main contributors
to the taxation coffers.— Mandipa
(N.S.W.).
I would like to tax “Harry the Horse”
with ingratitude. Does he ever give
thanks to the wheatfarmer when he sits
down to a meal of cereal, bacon and
eggs and toast, or is he like hundreds of
others who fail to realise that the wheat-
farmer sells them his grain at cost of pro-
duction (notice there is no plus) and also
sells his grain at the same price to pig- and
poultry-farmers so “Harry the Horse”
and others may eat a cheaper meal? This
means a loss of 9s. a bushel to the wheat-
farmer and the loss to Australia
in general of valuable flour sales, as
the price of our flour overseas is too
high because the home-consumption
price of bran and pollard is too low. Yet
“Were elopin', serge — ain't y' got no romance in y'?"
people from the cities complain about the
high price they pay for wheat products.
“Hafry” also seems to forget that for
every farmer who went under Relief,
hundreds struggled on and have paid all
their debts in full, plus interest, and have
also shared in every tax burden, often un-
fairly, as they see very little in the way of
education facilities, etc., for their money.
—Mrs. P.E.B. (N.S.W.).
There are scores of primary producers
in favor of the £A being on par with
sterling. If the formerly bankrupt men
had rolled their swags and walked off
their properties, incoming owners would
have come in at less than the debt owed
by the nominal owners after rehabilita-
tion, and the money nabobs would have
been a lot worse off. Whatever taxpayers
may have lost then; they afe getting back
now with, considerable interest added.
This hunger for land, as far as Aus-
tralians are concerned, is all a myth. They
want it now when prices are high, but
they were not very interested from 1926
to 1939, when things were really tough,
when nominal owners of outback places
were really pqorly paid boundary-riders.
If figures and history were given as to
what happened to all primary industries
over the past 50 years, and then a vote
taken as to whether the average Austra-
lian would like to take on primary pro-
duction or city businesses or jobs, there
might be a 15 per cent, vote in favor of
primary production. The hunger for
land in Australia is just as big a myth as
the one that Australians are a race of
horsemen.
Whatever our shortcomings, we seem
to have kept Australia afloat for a con-
siderable period, despite the smallness of
our numbers. I don’t know whether it is
true, but it has been stated that 84
per cent, of Australians live in cities and
towns- In the country districts about
one-third of the population are store-
keepers, publicans, bookmakers and
so forth. The remaining 10 per cent, are
farmers, and they seem to have and are
doing quite a fair job despite in-
gratitude—Julia Greek (Q.).
North Queensland
For its first full year of life (1860)
the infant State of Queensland had ah
income of £178,589, and an expenditure
of £180,103. Its main heads of revenue
were Customs £50,210 and land £101,572.
Interesting items of expenditure include
—education £3298, hospitals £1905 (in-
clusive of £lO5 for “support of paupers
in colonial hospitals”), roads and bridges
£11,797.
The Queensland of 1860 had no rail-
ways, no national education system, no
health and medical services (including
child welfare, ante-natal and baby clinics),
no State assistance to home-building
schemes, and no State-assisted local gov-
ernment For the financial year 1949-50,
Queensland is committed to spending
almost £4,000,000 on education alone. Its
expenditure on other social services will
be proportionately large.
It is with regard to these and other
financial commitments of government
that Premier Hanlon has stated that a new
North Queensland State could not finance
itself at present. He may be wrong. If
it is the intention of the progenitors of
this new State to do without these things
as early Queensland did, then Mr. Hanlon
is wrong.
But in that event it well may be that
the result will be the loss of that cohesion
in the community of the new State which
to Mr. Ellis (B. 12/4/’5O) is the first
essential. Then Brisbane, Sydney and
Melbourne will have greater and not less
attraction for the people of the new State.
Even Canberra is sure to benefit; it
will need more bureaucrats if merely
to receive and pigeonhole the pleas of the
new Government for more money.—
William (Q.).
Button Days
I’ve sold “buttons” for one cause and
another for over 30 years. My customers
have generally been cheerful, unquestion-
ing givers, but last year and this they
have been asking as they paid over the
shillings, “Why do we still have to do
this when we’re heavily taxed for social
services? Where does that money go?”
I can’t answer ’em. Can anyone?—
C.E.E. (Tas.).
“Warrigal” (B. 5/4/’5O) questions Aus-
tralian independence. I think it prac-
tically vanished with the inception of
“social service.” Australians are possibly,
through no fault of their own, de-
veloping into a nation of supplicants,
the majority of whom have the mistaken
idea they’re entitled to “social service.”
Charity doesn l t foster independence, and
child endowment doesn’t
of vast numbers of children™* the loi-
as many neglected and derewV 1 ®
around now as evSr.—H W.(N s w^ ds
Art and the Ne^Auiralian
At an exhibition of oaintinop 1
Australians dozens of people JLSL N I w
immeasurable benefits of P Fnr^ t 0 ed tlle
ture that is coming™ cn| -
bnd per medium of Displaced
They apologised for our shortcn? S '
and the result is that New Aust™!? B*’ 8 *’
have the idea that they are
enlightenment. Y 6 apostles of
Let’s welcome any worth-while cnntr:
bution from overseas; let us not ?
our heads over scores of indifferent
Europe.™* beCaUSe thCy C
Europe is culturally dead. The good
artists went to England and America
and nothing can now be gained from S
European continental “art schools ” pi
ceUent copies of the great masters are
available for those who wish to studv and
profit by them. *
Let -us shake off this inferiority
complex once and for all. We have
artists who can hold} their own anv
where in the world, and Australian art
has not only given, us a fine tradition in
Australia but, because in the main it did
not succumb to the insanity of so-called
“modernism,” has a contribution to make
to the culture of the world.— Proud Of
It (Vic.),
Is U.N.O. Worth It?
Correspondents at Lake Success (and
Mr. Trygve Lie) express concern lest
U.N.O. should be brought to a stand-
still. Would that be any loss? It used
to be said of the old League of Nations
that it provided (at Geneva) a place where
the nations could get together—and tread
on each other’s toes.
On U.N.O. Mr. Churchill delivered
this judgment something over a year
ago: “The Assembly of the United
Nations, which we fondly imagined'
would be a majestic centre of world
security.... .has been reduced to a brawl-
cockpit in which the representatives of
mighty nations and ancient States hurl
reproaches at one another.”
At that lime the unedifying proceed-
ings of the Third Assembly were still
dragging on in Paris. The conduct of
affairs at the Fourth Assembly (Sept.-
Dee., 1949) did nothing to raise U.N.O.’s
tone or reputation.
A Brazilian delegate (Senor Muniz)
raised the subject of costs. Pointing out
that more than 4000 meetings had been
held under U.N. auspices during the year,
he said that the expenses of the
“specialised agencies” U.N.E.5.C.0.,
1.L.0, 1.T.0., 1.R.0., F.A.0., 1.T.U.,
U.P.U., 1.C.A.0. and W.H.O. are some of
them —had risen from 43 million dollars
in 1947 to 220 million dollars (£A97 mil-
lion) in 1949. In addition U.N.’s own
administrative costs are high.. It is esti-
mated that the Third Assembly alone
cost £AI7 million. ,
Last September President Truman laid
the cornerstone of the new headquarter
in New York. This is expected to cost
over £A44 million to complete.
Of all this expenditure the U.S. bears
39.89 p.c., the U.K. 11.48 p.c. and Aus-
tralia 1.97 p.c. . . .
What does the world gam in return,
apart from providing Moscow with
propaganda sounding-board and p
opportunities for espionage?
In view of Australia’s need for heavy
machinery and petrol, both of .
must come from overseas, the het h er
Government might well consider .
they could put to better use the foreig
exchange which membership f
costs. — Endit (Q-). :
Road-trains , uC .
iNow tnat jet propulsion has b by
cessfully harnessed for car e g be
means Of the turbo-jet engine, use
interesting to see if eng !, n ® r . s on the
such power to make road 'Jf I Northern
long straight stretches of efficient
Territory as efficient or have n ot
as the railed variety. Engl ” jh § a loading
yet said that road-trams with
capacity of 150 to 200 tons are not P
Sl The productive capacity o £^urUnt«
land is not good efficient road-
expense of railways. But it highway
trains were invented a P « the
could be used to serve all tramc
sparsely settled areas. a dvan-
The turbo-jet engine will have^
tages over the piston type . her rat io of
ing, as it has a much higher
power to weight, it 0 f ’ which
diesel oil, millions of gallop 0 f
are available from the i -w-system
Darwin, and, having no j ngS has
or gear-box and almost
much lighter maintenance cos .
(N.S.W.).


. „ ,„ p due the sledge and Bob
mound, w and \ went to get the
in whllS t iP that had been cached yesterday
P lan£ ta 2 not be done standing up, and
This “uld crawl all the way there , and
we had Inr hands and knees. Total side-
Sk°d n isSce ha about a mile; tune, one
hour 21 down the Jack a
Then we pro but the sledge
Glacto f„ OP “' ® tod to be dragged
refused 10 run, , 0 Swampy (George)
a U the way. a wc missed the crevasses,
Or the Lora nw fuU of them> and we
because the q£ the snow . Coming
couldn t see tbe glacier, a slope ot
down the h n °ie dge s till wouldn’t run, and
4 °deg- ui 1 dragged, so slushy was the snow
had ,° b afier dark, reached the foot, and
pmaUyi after oar wit hout strength to
)USt K St h aid clambered in. It is in the
p 'mV ’of a watercourse, but there is
middle °\ All da y to sledge 4\ miles.
nowhere else. A > rrange the ground-
glfin the fori ot a boat so the water
'Stng about the old island te
w • ctortofl this diary-delving, and
tnorn ‘" g probably sick of it long before
S However, you are dead right, tie
organisation was the greatest mess-up of
all time.
JAMES LAMBETH.
Picasso.
Recently the studios of Pans amused
themselves with yet another Picasso
controversy. K had been fomented
bv the Pans edition of a welL
known English newspaper, which printed
an article said to have been written by
the veteran painter Vlaminck, entitled
Picasso-but is it art?” In it Picasso
was accused of “having dragged painting
into a most mortal dead-end and in-
describable confusion,” and it was stated
that “there is not a line he draws, not a
dab of color that he paints that is not
reminiscent of a document consulted.
Giorgione, El Greco, Lautrec . . . all he
uses” The writer concludes that the
only thing Picasso is utterly unable to do
is to produce a Picasso which is Picasso.
This shrewd home-thrust naturally
produced plenty of answers, though not
one from Picasso (“The Master knows
when to keep silent”), and Vlaminck s
article was contradicted point by point
and one or two neat blows registered. It
was remarked that “well-known as he is,
Vlaminck has not stamped his age with
his vision as Picasso has, nor has his
charming though small contribution in
turgid oils with muddy colors done more
than enable us to see landscape in a
slightly new way.”
Rallying to Vlaminck, on the other
hand, one choleric gentleman declared it
was about time “the malignant foreign
influence was thoroughly exposed,” while
another boisterously shouted: “What a
man—and what guts! We need more
people like Vlaminck to put more people
like Picasso in their place!” Alex Watt,
writing for “The Studio,” then entered
the fray by stating that the real issue was
neither personal jealousy nor aesthetics,
but politics: Picasso was a well-known
member of the Communist party, while
Vlaminck was equally well-known to have
“committed” himself to the Right.
This is a “red-herring” with a vengeance.
The Communists are always claiming
everybody of note; it has yet to be
proved that Picasso belongs to any party
but his own tea-party, and even if he
were a “Commo,” and Vlaminck an
Anti” (which is quite likely), that would
only prove politics to have been the last
straw, breaking the back of Vlaminck’s
patience. Whatever anyone says, there
obviously T? an aesthetic quarrel here, and
one of practical import in the studios.
Anyone in Paris today, unless he’s pie-
eyed, must see that the Picasso “way” has
become the new academism, that a pupil
at, say, the Ecole de Paris today paints
unlike Picasso at his peril. This is not
Picasso’s fault, of course, not directly.
He has never interested himself in
the Ecole de Paris, or any other home
of academism.
But he is not unaware of his influence ;
his secretary Jaime Sabartes goes through
the latest clippings from his Press agent
with him every morning, while the great
man lies abed. If he’d wished to con-
tradict any of the more foolish of the
things done and said in his name, he could
easily have done so. Geniuses have never
been remarkable for their acceptance of
social responsibility, but surely no one
of Picasso’s rank has ever so consistently
appeared to decline it. The man is posi-
tively Shavian in the contradictoriness of
his utterances upon art, either his own
or the world’s (he never talks of another
man’s specifically): “There ought to be
a dictatorship of art” ; “What saves me is
that every day I do it worse” ; “1 do not
seek, I find”; “The true artist must
ignore everything, knowledge is hin-
drance.”
I have a notion, however, that under
the guise of a devil-may-care attitude
he’s really a very thoroughgoing
iconoclast, which brings me back to
Vlaminck’s analysis of his work. I don’t
think the analysis is very accurate. That
Picasso “dragged painting into a mortal
dead-end” is both an under- and an over-
statement. Half a dozen dead-ends would
be nearer the mark, but none of them has
proved mortal, nor is like to ; art isn’t so
anaemic. And though on first sight that
remark about every line he draws, every
stroke he paints, being “reminiscent of a
document coftsulted,” does seem shrewdly
observant, on closer scrutiny it proves to
be ambiguous. In what sense can Picasso
be said to “consult” the works of past
masters? Vlaminck implies that he paints
a pastiche. This was what Michael
Ayrton said so well several years ago in
his article in Penguin New Writing, No.
32.
But let’s be fair to the man. The sort
of thing that Picasso is doing, for instance,
when he uses El Greco brush-strokes in a
work such as “Le vieux guitariste” (see
p. 172, Modern French Painters, by R. H.
Wilenski) is not far removed from T. S.
Eliot’s echoing of Goldsmith’s lines in
The Waste Land :
When lovely woman stoops to folly and
Paces about the room again alone,
She smoothes her hair with automatic hands
And puts a record on the gramophone.
They are both comparing the con-
trasted outlooks of two ages, one
religious, the other irreligious. Eliot uses
Goldsmith’s verses as a co-relative for
Christian sexual morality, with which he
contrasts the lack of that morality in the
20th century; Picasso uses El Greco s
technique as a co-relative for Christian
faith-, with which he contrasts today’s lack
of it.
But this sort of thing does not amount
to painting a pastiche, not even when, as
in the pictures of his “Antique” series,
with their Cubist and Hellenic elements,
there is a medley of styles. Always, in
addition, there is irony in the use of these
styles, irony, moreover, not always at the
expense of the past. We require a new
word to describe this, and I understand
one has already been coined in Pans,
namely “Picasso.” Picasso paints
“Picassos.” Recently he has been doing
the same thing with commonplace objects,
as in his co-calied “sculpture.” Thus he
fitted together the handles and saddle of
a bicycle and “instantly,” we are told (it
is the “Times Lit. Suppl.” speaking,),
“there came into being the authentic
image of a bull’s head, startlingly alive,
primitive, an object well fitted to inspire
superstitious awe in the mind of a
savage.”
There has never been any doubt of
Picasso’s ability as a craftsman; but
whether he is a genius is another matter.
His followers claim he is on the grounds
that he can reproduce the styles of an El
Greco, a Giorgione, a Degas, a Puvis de
Chavannes, a Watteau, or execute draw-
ings in the manner of an Ingres or a
Guys. Those of us who have been caught
up in the modern movement in the arts
have been too ready to accept this sort
of advocacy on trust. We need to be
reminded that to “echo” El Greco suffi-
ciently for an observer •to note the fact
is still very far from painting a picture
such as the Spaniard’s great landscape
of Toledo cathedral or even his Virgin
with Saints Ines and Tecla.
Even if it were proved that he could
paint pictures so like the past masters
that experts were deceived, that wouldn’t
prove him to be any more of a “genius”
than Van Meegeren, who faked the
Vermeers and De Hooghs. If his fol-
lowers are to convince us of their master’s
genius they will have to do so, not by
arguing from pictures he has never
painted, but from those he has. Mean-
time, whatever we may be disposed to
think of his pictures, most of us will
admire his business acumen. Typical of
that is what happened at the little pro-
vincial Musee Grimaldi at Antibes.
Back in 1936 the Musee had just a
typical collection of dusty, antique land-
scapes and leg-of-mutton still-lifes.
Picasso, holidaying in the vicinity, used
to yarn with the director at the local cafe.
When he was departing the director
plucked up courage to ask him to lend
the Musee a picture. Amused at first,
Picasso complied. When he returned to
Paris he thought about it, decided here
was a chance too good to miss, and began
to give pictures to the Musee. As the
years went by he gave more and more,
until today all the original possessions
of the Musde are banished to the vaults,
and the Grimaldi is a Picasso gallery
maintained at the public cost! And that’s
exactly what happened on a much larger
scale in Paris itself.
DONOVAN CLARKE.
"Mackenzie."
Dear Red Page,
In your issue of 5/4/’50 was a poem
“Mackenzie” by W. Hart-Smith which I
assume is “modern” verse, because I
cannot reconcile it with my notions of
poetry. Perhaps you can help me. Here
is a fair sample of Part 2 written as
straightforward prose: —
Some have said that sometime far out
under the night they discern strange move-
ments among the sheep and swear they
hear a bark, though when the dogs are
tallied no animal is left to account for it.
Sheep scattered in the dark call to each
other, they disperse but keep in touch . . .
Surely a dog is out there making a muster?
“Run out Jack and call the animal in.
But all the jpovement has stopped, the
sheep are calmly grazing
This is a piece of plain, undistinguished
prose about a curious incident. It has
no recognisable metre, no rhythm or
cadence, no stress or emphasis other than
would be given in reading it aloud as
prose. True, it is cut into lines on no
apparent plan, some of the cuts being
ridiculous or worse, e.g.: —
,, „. pressed toward a
Gate
Under the moon and the white
Stars
What Ivor Brown has said about con-
temporary poets in Just Another Word is
applicable here: —
The contemporary poet has a concept or
an image to express, and he uses words to
put this on paper. But words to him are
so much raw material, and are no more
valued for themselves than are the bricks
which go to make a house. He has no
love for words as such, that is to say the
emotional vibration proceeding from the
words perfectly harmonised with the emo-
tion or the idea to be expressed. The selec-
tion and alignment of words with reference
to their significance in power and poignance
is a natural part of poetry, as is their
musical value. But that attitude to poetiy
is temporarily out of fashion.
The day will come when we shall
wonder at ourselves for having taken
these poets seriously ; and the more we
perceive their hollowness, the more shall
we prize “the breath and finer spirit ol
knowledge” offered to us by poetry.
C. R. B.
For C.R.B.’s information, since he
appears to be sincerely troubled.
First of all, nobody who has read
Hart-Smith’s exquisitely musical Chris-
topher Columbus (Caxton Press ; Angus
and Robertson) would ever accuse him
of not having a love for words as such.
Next, the first part of “Mackenzie”
is written on a basis of a line of five
beats; the second part on a basis ot
mingled three-beat and four-beat lines.
The scansion, which is meant to be per-
ceptible when the lines are spoken aloud,
is not based on iambics (a short beat
followed by a long beat), but on the long
(or strong) beats alone. This is perfectly
legitimate, the method of Piers Plowman,
and quite strict. It is to preserve the
three-beat or four-beat line that the
breaks are made.
An example of the five-beat line: —
So that his eye-sockets are pools of shadow.
The beats fall on “so,” “eye,” “sock,
“pools” and “shad.”
An example of the three-beat:
And swear they hear a bark.
The beats fall on “swear,” “hear” and
“bark” ; as it happens, in regular iambics
here. . , .
Within this framework of five-beat or
three-beat lines Hart-Smith allows him-
self variations, sometimes a four-beat or
three-beat line among the fives, sometimes
a three-beat or two-beat line among the
fours; but all is controlled in a strict
pattern and you will find plenty of iambic
verse, Wordsworth’s “Ode on Immor-
tality,” for example, varying in the same
way.
For further information read R G.
Howarth’s Notes on Modern Poetic Tech-
nique, English and A ustralian (Angus and
Robertson). „ „
RED PAGE.
Makers of Mathematics: Alfred
Hooper (Faber). Survey of mathematics
through the ages from Thales and
Pythagoras to Leibniz, Gauss and the
moderns.' Intended for the layman, but
the layman would need to be mathe-
matically-inclined.
* * * *
Hazlitt Painted by Himself : Catherine
Macdonald Maclean. Extracts from
Hazlitt’s writings—his travels and
criticism as well as the Liber Amons
chosen for their autobiographical con-
tent and designed to build up to a seit-
portrait. Dr. Maclean gave us so good a
portrait of Hazlitt in her biography a tew
years ago that the present book is, in a
sense, superfluous. Still, it is interesting
merely as an anthology of Hazlitt s
prose ; the limbs and features making the
portrait have been ingeniously pu
together; and the truth is established
which applies to all works of art, tna
even when a man is writing about the act-
ing of Edmund Kean he is, ultimately,
writing about himself.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 68
Across.
*~The “Macbeth” witches urged
their cauldron to do this and a
communication among mice is
tned food. (6, 3,6)
B—He .doesn’t drink about 100 with
a vice to the east. (9)
Concerning a boxing match. (5)
L—The unemployed lied badly. (4)
Jhy last one to the metropolis
nnishes such springiness. (10)
j3—Eagle. (4)
4 Dynamo’s redistribution of the
time when most of our public
holidays occur. (7)
"Expressing extreme disapproval of
the fellow's chant. (7)
River of lava. (4)
Rope spring (anagram). (10)
"Paraguay tea companion finishes
the chess game. (4)
7—Terrify a French island in the
28 J mh , S «<- (5)
Bpoil the toothbrush with Spanish
tnoney like marble. (9)
' failed to get enough votes
w tth a wind instrument. (6, 9)
(CRYPTIC type.)
Down.
1 — Paymaster-Commander L. A. da
Costa Ricci R-N. and the drink-
ing counter put the clock on you
and me. (9)
2 fish is under a dollar.
(8)
3 Thin inclination. (5)
4 Clothed. (7)
5 Character fired in the wharf. (?)
6 Foreign, and formerly pertaining
to the ear. (6) , .
7 Miss Foyle has a pool ox con-
tributions. 05) . ,
9 —American soldier upset a caru-
game in the icehouse. (5) _
15 — Former name for Australia s
island neighbors (initials). ?
16 — poet shows that the smoker s
accessory has nothing up with it.
(9)
17 — Scene of the assassination ot
Archduke Francis Ferdinand in
1914. (8) .
19 — Touch on the devil and me
gloomy dean. (7)
20 — Crustaceans. (7)
21 — Firkin with inner disturbances.
(5) “ *
23 — Bellini opera has 50 according to
rule and practice. (6)
24 — Fat is to cause anything to tan
straight down. (5) .
26—Horse’s gait upset this legal
wrong. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 67.


*
PHICE £4
f
The famous
One Blade Safety . . .
Equipped with one hollow ground blade
which, with proper care and attention, will
last for many years. This self stropping,
self honeing Rolls Safety Razor has main-
tained its prestige and given perfect satis-
faction to countless thousands of men the
world over for more than a quarter of a
century.
In a special endeavour to bring to everyone the pleasures and comforts
of electric dry shaving, Rolls Razor proudly announce that models of
the famous “Viceroy” are now available for operation by either A.C.
or D.C. power from 32 volts to 240 volts! These models are similar to
the 240-volt model illustrated on the right, and are packed in distinctive
leather-covered cases. Full particulars may be obtained on application.
The non-electric model is also worthy of special mention, as it has been
designed to bring the many comforts of electric dry shaving on all those
occasions when electricity is not available —this model is also illustrated
on the right.
If your local dealer cannot supply you write direct to us and we will arrange to
have your requirements forwarded to any address within the Commonwealth .
Special News I
mmm.
ii'il
- ,
wmssk
ITT O
.
No soap, water, brush or blades needed
* -nj/D *
for the
f
ELECTRIC
DRY-SHAVER
: ‘*J>: hfj “4g'sS
A beautifully made precision
instrument which incorporates the
following outstanding characteristics.
/I. It is fully guaranteed against dc-
/ fective material or workmanship.
2. It has no motor and requires no
lubrication.
3, There is only one efficient self sharpen-
| ing, Twin-cutting head to be cleaned
after shaving-
With all these distinct advantages the
Rolls “Viceroy” Electric Dry Shaver is the
best that money can buy. Operates on
240 volts, ,A.C.
• ' "■ v,-- .
Shave anywhere anytime with the
NON-ELECTRIC
Without Electricity, Soap, Water, Brush
or Blades. This fully guaranteed non-
electric precision instrument is a useful
substitute for your Viceroy Electri
Shaver during Blackouts. The
ideal companion for a man when
travelling and on holiday camping
trips. Keep one in the glove box
of your car and shave where you like
when you like. Remember you need
no electricity, soap, water or blades to op-
erate the Viceroy Non-Electric Dry Sha
0/01/97
H3AVHS
ROLLS RAZOR
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY • TELEPHONE BW 2033
Interstate Representatives: . . , i «nerfale Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND: The Rolls Razor Co. of Aust. Pty. Ltd., 77 Queen Street, Brisbane. VICTORIA and TASMANIA: Godfrey Phillip (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Drury 1 10,15
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris. Scarfe & Sandover Ltd.. Hay Street. Perth. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell Ltd., P.nc Street, Adcla^e.
