

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 71- No. 3650
Wednesday, January 25, 1950
Price 6dL -
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
Tewkesbury,
Among the Best of the
Norman Abbeys
r THE ancient town of Tewkesbury,
situated on the broad meadows
between the Severn and Shakespeare’s
Avon in Gloucestershire, possesses one of
the finest Norman Abbeys in England.
The Abbey grew from a cell established
here in the seventh century by a hermit
named Theuk, from whom the present
town derives its name. In 1084 Gerald,
Abbot of Cranborne, visited Tewkesbury
and .was so impressed by the beauty of
its situation that he commenced the
rebuilding of the existing Abbey, which
was completed eighteen years later. In
the fourteenth century much of the
interior was converted from Norman to
the Decorated style of architecture, and
the priceless windows of the choir date
from this period.
Edward IV gave Tewkesbury to
George, Duke of Clarence, who was later
executed in 1478 at the Tower ,of Lon-
don and was the last Royal personage to
be buried in Tewkesbury Abbey.
Apart from its Abbey, Tewkesbury is
full of interest to the visitor, for its
streets are rich in ornamented half-
timbered houses and picturesque court-
yards. The medieval coaching traffic was
responsible for the numerous hostelries
established in the town, among which
was the famous “Hop Pole” visited by
Mr. Pickwick on his memorable journey
from Bristol to Birmingham, related in
the Pickwick Papers.
Modern Tewkesbury owes much of its
fame to the novel John Halifax, Gentle-
man, written in 1852 by Mrs. Craik and
translated into thirty languages. Its
universal appeal has drawn thousands of
visitors from all parts of the world to
Tewkesbury to identify the scenery of
“Norton Bury” and “Abel Fletcher’s
Mill,” which dates from 1300 and was in
continuous use until 1920.
Near the Abbey is “Bloody Meadow,”
upon which was fought the Battle of
Tewkesbury, one of the last of the ilh
famed Wars of the Roses.
CHATEAU TAN UN DA BRANDY
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEP PELT


m
. This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, ai
advertised in the Sydney ü ßulletin
My Name
My Address
S.B. 150 - AGE.
The Red Page
AUSTRALIAN ART.
Nothing could be more absurd, nothing
could better illustrate the insensate
muddle which surrounds the arts, than
the fact that while writers in whose works
lies the freshness of the morning and the
spirit of the Australian earth —men such
as Lawson, Furphy and Steele Rudd —
are everywhere being “discovered,” the
artists whose works exhibit the same
qualities—the group which includes
Gruner, Streeton, Lambert, Hans Heysen
and Norman Lindsay—are everywhere
being buried. It is as if a national cul-
ture were not, as we like to picture it, a
steadily-flowing stream, but a whirligig,
a kind of crazy Big Dipper; writers are
up, artists are down.
For Norman Lindsay, of course, attack
is no new thing. It is true that the genial
William Moore, in The Story of Aus-
tralian Art, wrote with appreciation and
respect of the “fierce vitality” of “the
most prolific artist in Australia: the total
number of his drawings, etchings, water-
colors and oils must run into thousands.”
But Moore was obliged to record, as a
matter of history, that when the Aus-
tralian exhibition was about to be sent
to Burlington House a deputation waited
on the Minister for Education demanding
that Norman Lindsay’s paintings—every
one of which subsequently sold in
London —should not be allowed to dis-
grace Australia abroad ; and, illustrating
the puritan attack in its final simplicity,
Moore also relates the anecdote:
The 1907 exhibition [of the Society of
Artists] was one of the most important
in the history of the society, Norman
Lindsay, Lionel Lindsay, J. J. Hilder,
Douglas Fry and Sydney Ure Smith having
their first panels at a society’s exhibition.
“Norman’s work created a lot of discus-
sion,” said Julian Ashton. “I remember a
well-known lady saying, ‘This man should
not be allowed to live, he should be killed.’
Calling Norman over, I said, ‘Allow me to
introduce you to a lady who wants to have
you killed.’ ”
Norman Lindsay, then, if he should
happen to read Herbert Badham’s A
Study of Australian Art (Currawong),
will hardly be surprised to learn that this
latest historian looks upon his art with
a killing eye:
The shameless, callipygous wenches who
shocked the suburban fathers of yesterday
are showing the ravages of time; having
played their piece, they might well take a
bow and depart.
Mr. Badham, himself an artist and a
teacher of art at East Sydney Technical
College, is not, as was Bernard Smith in
Place, Taste and Tradition (1945), com-
pelled by politico-artistic beliefs to
attack Norman Lindsay for his “18th
century” paintings as “bourgeois,”
“reversionary” and “a palace revolu-
tionary”—grave charges, indeed; but
equally applicable to “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream” or “As You Like It” —
nor is he, like so many other critics,
merely the mouthpiece of a generation,
compelled to reverse the artistic judg-
ments of its parents. “Generations of
new critics,” Norman Lindsay once said,
“have tried to brain me with their feed-
ing-bottles.” But Mr. Badham is more
mature than that, and he admits, indeed,
that the artist has “such talent as is
granted few.”
His complaint against the paintings
appears to be simply that they have
“ceased to shock” —“They have ceased
to shock, and remain only to amuse —
or to bore.” This, unfortunately, one
must doubt; they appear to have shocked
Mr. Badham, for he is unable to discuss
them in any terms other than sexual.
“Norman Lindsay’s disturbing message
was conveyed by means of sensual anec-
dote wherein the fleshly forms of woman-
kind were stressed,” and so on. One
notices, with regret, the same limitation
in his brief notes on Lyall Trindall and
Garrett Kingsley;
From their work comes a hint of a not-
so-far-away past, of the baroque and
naughty elegance of the salon de nu, of
Bougereau and his train of clothes-shy
ladies in whose lovely bodies you are
bidden to find, if you have eyes to see and
your mind be not bemused by a more usual
consideration, the spirits of the seasons, of
the streams and woodlands and the rest
of it.
Now, if Norman Lindsay’s nudes have
indeed lost some of their power to shock
it is hardly fair to use this as an argu-
ment against their artistic quality. If
we are not shocked, or are less shocked
than we used to be—if we are thus far
civilised—it is because the spirit of the
times has become more liberal; and, as
far as the Australian art world is con-
cerned, the times have become more
liberal largely because of the lifelong,
almost single-handed battle Norman
Lindsay has waged against censorship
and the censoring mind, Mr. Badham
himself, to the extent that he is not
shocked, has been civilised by Norman
Lindsay.
Unless we are content with some such
result as Lord Leighton achieved, in
whose pictures the women look like some
pallid and drooping vegetable, the nude
in art cannot reasonably be expected to
unsex itself any more than a tree can be
asked to untree itself, so that it is likely
that people who feel safer with trees
than with nudes will always be more or
less shocked by the representation of the
human body. But it should surely be
possible, in a work such as A Study of
Australian Art, simply to admit that the
nude is a legitimate subject for painting
and then to proceed to discuss how well
or how ill it is painted, as one would
discuss the handling of a-tree by Gruner.
How admirable in this respect is the
outlook of Bernard Smith, who, when
the subject arises in his discussion of
the surrealist art of James Gleeson (and
when politics are not in question), says
simply:
Revulsion is still evoked by the presen-
tation of broken and torn bodies, but the
almost surgical obsession with vivisection,
as a plastic equivalent of mental analysis,
is obviously giving way before a recogni-
tion of the compositional supremacy and
organic beauty of the nude form as a pic-
torial unit.
If we could really free ourselves of
the provincial obligation to be shocked
at the nude we might be able to give
proper consideration to the aesthetic
qualities of Norman Lindsay’s work:
the imagination, the blazing light and the
composition of crowded figures in swift
movement that have made his etchings —
mentioned in one line by Mr. Badham —
both in dramatic quality and in crafts-
manship unique in the history of art; the
verve of line, magnitude of organisation
and concept and mysterious ability to
“paint” with the pen that have caused his
pen-drawings to be acclaimed all
over the world; the idyllic grace
of the “18th century” watercolors
that so alarm Mr. Smith (as if
man’s desire for tranquillity and delight
were not quite as well worth painting as
his impulse to cut his fellowmen’s throats
in a revolution); the sparkling color and
vivacious stage-effects of his later water-
colors ; the head-studies of “Rita” in oils
which, in their proud and profound
beauty, would alone be sufficient to make
an artist’s reputation ; the big composi-
tions in oils, such as “Don Juan” and
“Homage to Balzac,” of a scope rarely
attempted in our shallow and im-
patient times; the ship models and
the sculpture which William Moore
mentions and which Mr. Badham does
not; the novels both historians mention
and The Magic Pudding, which William
Moore delights in as a children’s classic:
and the whole of this gigantic mass of
artistic creation, whether nude or clothed,
whether contemporary or archaic,
whether on paper or on canvas, whether
in stone or in print, animated by that
“fierce vitality” which is its contribution
to the Australian spirit, its validity for
our own time and its guarantee of im-
mortality.
A Study of Australian Art is an uneasy
sort of book to review because, except for
its excursions into criticism, one is not
quite sure to what extent it exists; that
is, as an original and independent
creation. Essentially, though with addi-
tions bringing it up-to-date and with the
author’s comments, it is hardly more than
a precis of William Moore.
Mr. Badham acknowledges his debt
frankly and gratefully, and nobody could
write a history of Australian art without
delving into Moore, yet you would need
to have the two histories side by side to
see-how enormous the debt is and how
frequently Mr. Badham has done little
more than rewrite his predecessor. Con-
sider. for instance, the notes by the two
historians on Thomas Wainewright.
William Moore, after relating with proper
admiration how Wainewright poisoned his
grandfather, his mother-in-law and his
wife, and then was sent to Australia for
the minor misdemeanor of forgery,
proceeds; *
After a time, it became known that there
was an artist in the Hobart jail who had
shown at the Academy; photography had
not yet been invented, and when a request
was made by some citizens that Waine-
wright might be permitted to paint por-
traits, he was allowed to visit within the
town boundaries.
Mr. Badham, after duly retelling the
stories of poisoning and forgery, writes:
Those were the days before the invention
of photography, and the artist was a very
necessary individual in the community.
When it became known in Hobart that a
painter of distinction who had exhibited
at the Royal Academy was lodged in the
jail the Governor was petitioned that he
be allowed to make portraits.
William Moore, after some account of
Wainewright’s work in Hobart, concludes
with the paragraph:
The strange character of Wainewright
interested some famous writers. In his
essay on Charles Lamb, De Quincey refers
to him at some length; he is the original
of Varney in Lytton’s Lucretia; his life
suggested the plot for Dickens’s Hunted
Down; and he is the subject of Oscar
Wilde’s well-known essay, “Pen, Pencil and
Poison.’’ A full estimate of him as a
writer is given in Sidelights of Charles
Lamb by Bertram Dobell.
Mr, Badham’s notes conclude:
Wainewright’s strange impulses and
unhappy life have been the subject of a
few written works; De Quincey refers to
him in his essay on Charles Lamb; he is
the original of Varney in Lytton’s Lucretia;
Dickens derived a plot from his life for
Hunted Down, and he is the subject of an
Oscar Wilde essay, “Pen, Pencil and
Poison.”
William Moore goes on from Waine-
wright to talk about the art of Louisa'
Meredith, who illustrated her own books
about New South Wales, Victoria and
Tasmania in the latter half of the nine-
teenth century. Mr. Badham’s next
artist after Wainewright is Louisa
Meredith.
In both these cases there was, surely,
an opportunity for Mr. Badham to have
expanded Moore’s records, or, if that was
not permitted by the restricted scheme
of his book, to have made a variation. He
could have looked into these writings
based on Wainewright and told us, even
in a paragraph, something about them ;
he could have inspected Mrs. Meredith’s
books and reported on them ; at least he
could have added to the Wainewright
bibliography the fact that Mr. George
Farwell, an Australian author, has written
a successful radio play about the poisoner.
Throughout A Study of Australian Art,
it is appropriate to mention here, refer-
ences to Australian literature are lacking.
William Moore is at all times aware of
the cultural development of his country
as a whole and writes, for example, such
significant observations as, “What
Lawson did in song and story to stimu-
late a national sentiment, Mahony accom-
plished, to a certain extent, in his paint-
ings and drawings ; he had a rare faculty
for giving a peculiar Australian touch to
everything he depicted ; as an exponent
of the dramatic side of horsemanship he
has never been surpassed.” And Bernard
Smith, though his theory that the reputa-
tions of Christopher Brennan and George
Lambert “reside as much upon the terrific
impact which their lives and opinions had
upon their contemporaries as upon their
actual art works” is far more true of
Brennan than of Lambert, and though it
is fantastic to relate Brennan’s sonorous
and moonlit gloom to the fire and flare
of Lambert’s portraits, is likewise com-
mendably aware of the nation’s total
artistic achievement in which painting, to
be properly assessed, must be seen as a
part. Marcus Clarke, Bernard O’Dowd,
the Jindyworobaks, Max Harris and his
“Angry Penguins”—all these are discussed,
sometimes wisely and sometimes merely
politically, in Place, Taste and Tradition.
In A Study of Australian Art Australian
literature does not exist.
Perhaps its exclusion could be justified,
on the grounds of sticking to the point or,
simply, the limitations of space ; for Mr.
Badham has obviously set out to write a
shorter William Moore. On the same
grounds one can understand in A Study
of Australian Art the absence of those
intimate, warmly human, often humorous
and always revealing anecdotes which
William Moore told from his own
acquaintance with the artists or retold
from Julian Ashton, and which so much
enliven his history. With his leisurely
style, pausing for an amusing aside when-
ever the story seemed worth it, Moore
may have been thought too longwinded
for contemporary taste; his two thick
volumes, with their 248 illustrations, in-
cluding photographs of the artists (Mr.
Badham has 150; no photographs of
artists), may have been thought too cum-
bersome for schools and universities, if
this new history is intended for that pur-
pose. Yet the fact remains that from
William Moore you will leam, for
instance, concerning Tom Roberts’s
“Bailed Up”:
In or about the middle of the ’eighties Mr.
Roberts arrived from England and was a
guest of the Messrs. Anderson, the owners
of Newstead Station, some 18 miles from
Inverell. On the occasion of a dinner at
Newstead Mr. Roberts expressed a wish
that he might obtain some data to paint a
picture such as “Bailed Up,” typifying the
early days of New South Wales in the
bushranging era. / The Messrs. Anderson
entered into the spirit of the project
enthusiastically Cobb and Co.’s coach,
with the old leather braces, was comman-
deered, as was the driver, Robert Bates,
well known in those days. Station hands
and others were run in as bushrangers,
passengers, etc The scene of the sham
hold-up was “Walls Hill,” about midway
between Inverell and Glen Innes, The
subject of “Bailed Up” is based on an
actual incident. Bob Bates, who had been
stuck up in the ’sixties, described to the
painter the quiet way the whole thing was
done.
And in A Study of Australian Art you
will find, to be sure, a fine appreciation
of “Bailed Up,” but the anecdote is re-
duced to a bare sentence. You will find,
in fact, that while following the general
pattern of The Story of Australian Art —
opening with the aboriginals, covering the
pioneers and the introduction of Impres-
sionism through Tom Roberts and
Streeton, then dealing with later develop-
ments, and including a survey of sculp-
ture, black-and-white, schools, societies
and galleries—Mr. Badham has every-
where relied on William Moore for much
of his material, everywhere shortened him
—the chapter on black-and-white is about
11 pages to Moore’s 33 —and everywhere
turned a warm human document into
something comparatively academic.
The reviewer’s difficulty inevitably lies,
then, in detaching A Study of Australian
Art from its illustrious predecessor. No
such difficulty arose with Mr. Smith’s
book, for although he also dealt with the
aboriginals, the pioneers, the Impres-
sionists and the Post-Impressionists, and
took a lot of his material from William
Moore, whom he found “unsatisfactory”
(Moore, too, must have been a “palace
revolutionary” or, worse, not a revolu-
tionary at all), Place, Taste and Tradi-
tion was an essay on a given theme—the
relation of Australian art to its environ-
ment and to European influences —and,
up to the point when Mr. Smith began to
persuade himself that only May Day
processions were “real,” an excellent one.
Mr. Smith, unfortunately, seems
lately to have developed his political
enthusiasms at the expense of his aesthetic
judgment. He has complained bitterly in
“Meanjin Papers” that Gruner painted
“well-fed lambs”; the idea being that
thereby the artist was toadying to the
squattocracy. Presumably in a revolu-
tionary society there would only be ill-
fed lambs —a proposition which seems
somehow hard to reconcile with the
extremely well-fed portraits of Stalin
which, since the Revolution, have been
painted by some Russian sheep. Place,
Taste and Tradition remains, nevertheless,
almost a model of the kind of art-book
Australia requires.
Not only in art but in all kinds of
documentary writing there is a need for
more regionalism, more specialisation:
one may note, for instance, how Enid
Moodie Heddle’s recent book on Aus-
tralian literature, admirable in its original
concept, frayed out by failing to stick
to its theme and by trying to cover too
wide a field ; or, among nature books,
how Charles Barrett’s recent account of
our parrots covered all parrots in
general, but few in intimate and vivid
detail, and how Thistle Y, Harris’s richly-
illustrated wildflower book, attempting to
cover the whole continent, is necessarily
inadequate for nature-lovers in any parti-
cular region. A similar fault makes a
wilderness of most Australian anthologies
of poetry.
The general history of art, except that
it requires a supplement every 10 years
or so, has been covered once and for all
by William Moore; and the way is now
clear for special studies corresponding to
T. Inglis Moore’s Six Australian Poets or
the books on Brennan by Randolph
Hughes and H. M. Green —monographs
on individual artists such as Lionel
Lindsay’s on Conrad Martens, essays on
a theme like Place, Taste and Tradition
or books on isolated aspects of art such
as the portrait-painters from Lambert to
Dobell, the landscapists from Tom
Roberts to Lance Solomon, the water-
colorists from Blamire Young to John
Eldershaw. The English art critic William
Gaunt, who understands well the value
of specialisation, deals with the history
of art in groups of artists, one group to
a book ; and once he was content to write
a volume simply on the theme of
Bandits in Landscape.
There would still be a place in Aus-
tralia for a critical history of art, a re-
assessment of values. Mr. Badham’s book
partly fulfils this requirement. But his
approach, like William Moore’s, is essen-
tially historical rather than critical. He
throws his net very wide ; mentions, with
a few exceptions—George Finey and
Roland Strasser, for instance—practically
everybody who has wielded a brush in
this country; and the total effect, as in
William Moore, is of a medley in which
insignificant painters are written up at
excessive length and major painters tend
to get lost in the crowd.
This academic approach has, of
course, a distinct encyclopaedic value: the
o Continued on page 35.)


"TRUTH
..ONISIiaHAdV Nil
Anthony Horderns’
Strong Vulcanised School Oases
priced from 26's
Student’s Brief Case in
grained hide with centre lock,
strap fasteners. 15 x 11 in., 44/-.
Left.
Suit Case in vulcanised fibre with two
English locks, deep made, lightweight.
24in., 54/-; 26in., 57/9; 28in., 61/9.
Right.
Travel Rug in pure wool, fringed
ends. Cheek designs, priced at 66/3.
■I I —ll M—l
B
*
mmm
m
School Satchel in hide with outside
pocket, knapsack straps, buckle fasteners.
12in., 15/-; l3in., 16/9; Min., 18/6.
Hooped Suit Case , reinforced with two English locks. In
striped waterproof tweed covering, 26in., 90/-; 28in., 100/-.
School Case 9 vulcanised, Eng. locks, 16in., 26/3; 28in., 29/3.
m
* <" Wc
•r
No need to unpack at your destination with a
"Val Pac” Travelling Wardrobe
Built-in hangers will accommodate three suits without a crease! Also
room for ties, shirts, etc. Just open your “Val-Pac” and hang up by the
hook attached. And there is your wardrobe complete! £l4/14/-.
Freight paid on this “Pac”
£
X
Dust sheet is provided
to give added protection.
3
n LjIL^
Roomy outer pockets for
shoes, underclothes, etc.
*
'•«,
Straps hold suits in
position, will not crumple.
5.‘ 'IF*
Good slide fasteners, will
last a lifetime!
Hi
Hi*
mm
IH
V' v ;
■
a®
•J
«!
ss»a
■
*, ,-..i
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ TRAVEL GOODS DEPARTMENT—GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


State Electricity Commission of Victoria
Constituted under Act of Parliament of Victoria)
THIRD
(LOAN No. 40)
Opens for public subscription
TUESDAY, 31st JANUARY, 1950
Cash subscriptions to the Loan will be applied to finance
capital works associated with the expansion of the Com-
mission’s undertakings, including the development of the
Kiewa hydro-electric project and the Morwell briquette
project, and the extensions to the Yallourn power station.
31%
4 per Annum
Price of Issue PAR
Currency . . 15 Years
(Repayable at Par ist March , 1965)
PROSPECTUS AND APPLICATIONS
Copies of the full prospectus can be obtained from,
and applications may be lodged with. The National
Bank of Australasia Ltd. (including The Queensland
National Bank Ltd.) at any of its offices in Australia;
members of recognised Stock Exchanges in Australia;
the Head Office of the Commission, 22 William Street,
Melbourne, or any of its offices in Victoria.
The Loan is secured upon the revenues of the State
Electricity Commission of Victoria .
The principal and interest are guaranteed by the
Government of Victoria .
The Loan is a trustee security in Victoria,
Queensland and Tasmania*
The loan will close on or before 17th February, 1950
Issued under authority of the State Electricity Commission (. Financial ) Act,. 1937
No. 4512 ( and Amendments ) of the State of Victoria.
22 William Street,
Melbourne.
R. A. HUNT,
Chairman.
A Jubilee
NEXT week’s issue of “The Bulletin”
will be a special 68-page issue celebrat-
ing the 70th anniversary of the paper’s
foundation by John Haynes and J. F,
Archibald.
In it there will be a 32-page “Bulletin”
Pageant comprising a reprinting of rep-
resentative black-and-white art, short
stories and verse as they have appeared
in “Bulletin” pages over the past 70
years.
Nothing to equal this “Bulletin” Pageant
has been previously published in the field
of Australian journalism. Black-and-
white art reproduced includes drawings
by Phil May, “Hop,” Souter, Frank P.
Mahony, Fred Leist, Norman Lindsay,
Low, B. E. Minns, Percy Leason, Walter
Jardine, Ted Scorfield and many others.
Short-story writers represented include
Edward Dyson, Henry Lawson, Joseph
Furphy, “Steele Rudd,’ Katharine
Prichard, James Edmond, Frank Dalby
Davison and Cecil Mann. Verse covers
a period from “Banjo Paterson to
present-day writer David Campbell.
Altogether it will be a memorable issue,
combining as it will examples of what
have come to be regarded as classics in
f Vi
Australian black-and-white art, fiction
and verse with the work of present-day
artists and writers.
All the usual weekly “Bulletin features
included in this specially enlarged issue.
ON SALE FEBRUARY 1
PRICE SIXPENCE


The Bulletin
Vol. 71— No. 3650
Wednesday, January 25, 1950
df
“AND THE LITTLE DOG LAUGHED


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
• “Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington. *
SOCIALIST IDOLS.
Mr. Chifley could spare no comment on
the election results till he came, some
three weeks after the event, to the declara-
! tion of the poll in his own constituency.
Then he said the bare minimum which
j the electors might expect from any party-
j leader in a democracy—namely, that he
; accepted their decision,
| But already the Socialist industrial
wing is demonstrating that it does nothing
of the sort. Barely a calendar month
elapsed before the new secretary of the
A.C.T.U., the same Mr. Broadby who
j last March, while but heir-presumptive to
that office, urged the unions to avoid
embarrassing the Government until the
elections were over, publicly demanded
that the new 1 Federal Ministry should
forsake its policy, accept direction from
“Labor,” and hold another referendum
to try to establish central prices control
again. Necessity, he said, would sooner
or later compel the Menzies Government
to do this. What he means is that just as
the Chifley Government yielded to the
Communist demand that it should “Raise
wages and peg prices!”, so the Menzies
Government ought to be forced to yield
also.
That long-toothed fanatic for the
Revolution, Senator Cameron, went even
further. At a Melbourne Trades Hall
Council meeting he wanted the Federal
Government to do without even a refer-
endum—to declare a state of emergency
and legislate forthwith to “take” power
to fix prices.
This move might be challenged in the
High Court [it certainly would], but if that
were done workers would know the people
were intent on keeping prices up.
The advanced years of the late Post-
master-General never sat upon him more
heavily than when, following upon this
suggestion that the Liberal-Country Gov-
ernment might first do something uncon-
stitutional and then challenge its own act,
he described the new Government’s pur-
pose as one to “increase prices and
thereby reduce the purchasing-power of
wages.”
These puerilities point to only one inter-
pretation. The leaders of political and
industrial “Labor” do not voluntarily
accept any decision at the ballot-box or
by the High Court, however emphatically
registered. Their creed is “Control for
control’s sake,” and their slogan is
“Rationing for ever!” Their programme
is based primarily on scarcity of com-
modities and the organisation of scarcity.
They would abolish plenty rather than
abandon Socialism. Although their
Parliamentary spokesmen, especially Dr.
Evatt with his “transitional” legislation,
have on occasions held themselves out as
desiring to abandon controls as soon as
possible, it is significant that at the 1948
Prices Referendum they demanded
nothing less than permanent central
control of all prices and charges whatso-
ever. They never accepted the electors’
“No” vote (in every State) at that refer-
endum, and they obviously do not accept
the verdict of the general elections last
month. *
Mr. Chifley would not hold another
prices referendum concurrently with those
elections, though doubtless the A.C.T.U.
would have compelled him to such a step
if the elections had gone in the Socialists’
favor. So widely was the Socialist policy
wrapped up with the holding of further
referenda in order to establish dictatorial
powers in Canberra in every direction
that the sweeping defeat of the Chifley
crowd is to be attributed largely, if not
principally, to the country’s abhorrence
of all totalitarian controls, both in theory
and in demonstrated Socialist practice.
Mr. Menzies won his signal vote of
confidence for precisely the opposite poli-
tical course. “You cannot have a con-
trolled economy,” he said, “without con-
trolling human beings, still the greatest of
all economic factors.” His whole policy
was directed towards full production for
the purpose of reducing prices, restoring
value to wages, and abolishing all
controls completely. “While there remains
a case for artificial price-control—
that is, while shortages continue —we shall
do all in our power to make price-control
effective.”
It would have been a safe bet that, had
the Socialists won the elections. Dr. Evatt
would again have brought down a bill to
extend “transitional” controls for an-
other 12 months or such time as was
necessary for his Government to make
them permanent by other means. But
they are now falling automatically into
the discard, and when the Gas Employees’
Union in Melbourne the other day sought
increased wage-rates from Conciliation
Commissioner Blackburn, the employers
promptly challenged the jurisdiction on
the grounds that the awards were
invalid after December 31, and Mr.
Blackburn immediately ruled in that
sense against those covering gas,
dairying and harvesting. Mr. Broadby,
affecting to be taken by surprise,
expressed concern at the consequential
insecurity of many other awards also, but
two days later revised this estimate as
excessive. The new Federal Attorney-
General has ordered an examination of
industrial awards in this light, but it
appears that the union agitation was
directed largely in protest against gas
companies’ demands for higher prices for
gas, consequent upon higher costs and the
reduced working week.
But there is another motive, too, and
the blindest cannot fail to see it. The
central subject in the debate on controls
and rationing at the moment is petrol,
and it is plain that the British Socialist
Government, about to go before its elec-
tors with a socialisation policy lately
working in close double-harness with that
in Australia, will not lift a finger to assist
larger imports of sterling petrol into Aus-
tralia, It means to retain controls of
rationing in Britain, and the universal de-
testation of such regimentation is the
stiffest obstacle it must overcome.
In raising its voice now over the Aus-
tralian people’s falling for a “mistaken
policy” at the late elections, the Aus-
tralian “Labor” Opposition is trying to
advertise that a return of rationing and
controls is inevitable here as an induce-
ment to the British elector not to reject a
like regime over there.
So chancy is this issue for the Attlee-
Cripps regime that on the day the British
Press broke the news that Western
Germany is now bursting with food
supplies and rationing there “has been
officially dead for weeks,” the British Food
Minister hastily declared that British
nutritional food values had risen above
pre-war level. True, this was promptly
corrected next day by “a Government
spokesman,” but some damage was done.
The Socialists’ best drawcard, Mr. Herbert
Morrison, then took the stump with the
gospel that the British people must take
it and like it. With him the “Labor” elec-
tion manifesto came out:
More industries to b'e nationalised as
well as steel. “Public enterprise will
become a model of efficiency and social
responsibility.”
Unless production continues to increase,
Britain cannot improve or even maintain
present standards of life, and social ser-
vices cannot survive.
There can be no advance without plan-
ning. _ The Tories cry “Scrap controls.”
Nothing could be more disastrous.
Children will continue “at the head of
the queue.”
Whether Australian “Labor” could win
an election with the cries of “No scrap-
ping of controls!” and “Children at the
head of the queues! ” is highly doubtful.
But then the British people have had a
stiffer dose of socialisation than have
Australians' and with a little more of
Chifleyism we should have come to the
same doleful condition in this Common-
wealth, with the community queuing for
everything and the head of the queue a
mark of Government distinction.
Had it happened here, other develop-
ments would, on the British parallel, have
followed also. “Raise wages and peg
prices! ” would not have had a hope. For
weeks past the British Socialist Ministry
has been intent chiefly mpon getting the
unions to endorse the very different slogan
of “Peg wages and work harder for
them!” This was not the course as
planned, but then the inflation that inter-
vened was not in the planners’ calcula-
tions, either.
Socialism consists, as Mr. Churchill
said, for the organisation of scarcity ; and
when its advocates, the trade-unions,
maintain—as they do in Australia—that
full production must be avoided as
menacing “full employment,” then the
truth that scarcity, inflation and Socialism
are partners and affinities needs no further
laboring. In order to persuade the
British people to vote for a further five-
year term of Government according to
this political idiocy, the Socialists here are
pretending that Australian economy will
collapse unless the Menzies Government
throws in the towel and adopts, as re-
pentent admirers of “Labor,” the policy
at which the electors lately threw all their
dead cats on every election platform in
the land.
McGirr Next.
There should be little doubt about the
fate of the McGirr Government of New
South Wales when it goes to the country.
Never has there been such a Government
in N. S. Wales, not even in Mr. Lang’s
time. He at least had the virtue that
he paraded his extremism openly. The
McGirr crowd, having adopted a plan
for socialisation in 10 years in 1944 and
having worked towards it with what feeble
ability it has ever since, seeks to conceal
its purposes, while its regimented flat-
buildings go up and its teaching system
functions with a well-known Red at the
head of its Teachers’ Federation and an
ex-Communist-party tutor in public-
speaking in its Ministerial chair.
Before the general election takes place
there are several by-elections which should
never be held at all, since the state of
the public mind and the pointers pro-
vided by the Federal election suggest
that the earliest possible dissolution would
be justified in New South Wales. But
Mr. McGirr is in no hurry, probably
because he and his followers love political
life and know that it is limited to the
tether which they can give themselves.
The McGirr political technique is to
buy lots of votes through the making of
jobs and reckless political promises and
to fix electorates as far as possible on
the basis which will presently leave them
free to carry on the work of socialisation
and the class-war without interruption.
Their “fixing” has followed two trends
—one directed towards the muzzling
of the Press in the last few days
before the elections, a restriction
which no Government in a civilised
British community has dared to apply
for at least a century and a half, and
the other a reorganisation of the zoning
of electorates so as to place the State
fully within the grasp of the industrial
electorates which they hope to control.
This last scheme is about as cynically
barefaced as the one to muzzle Press and
radio, and it is to be hoped that in the
February by-elections a sample of the
people’s feeling on the matter will be
shown.
The Government at present in office
was elected on a three-zone electoral
system which provided for differential
quotas in the Sydney metropolitan area,
in the Newcastle industrial area and in
the country, with a view to providing fair
representation according to interests as
well as according to the equal right of
individuals to be personally represented.
That this system preserved a fair
balance between country and city and
between “Labor” and its opponents was
shown by the fact that it kept first the
Stevens-Mair Governments (with a strong
C.P. ingredient) in office for nine years
and then a “Labor” Government in office
for nine years. The State was divided
into 90 seats —altogether too many,
especially in view of the steadily rising
costs of members —and of these 43 were
metropolitan, Newcastle area had five
and the country 42.
Under the new system there will be
only two zones, and it seems that under it
the country will sacrifice more than half
a dozen areas. The wealth-producing
districts on which the State most depends
for its export income—those which grow
wool, wheat and dairy produce—will
have representation in the proportion
roughly of only one to two industrial
seats in a House which Mr, McGirr’s
Government has, with utter disregard for
decency, raised in numbers to 94.
There could be nothing more cynical
and improper, but it is all in line with
what the Government has done in its
administration and with its varying the
procedures of Parliament, which has been
reduced to the state of a political-
registering device which works only when
“Labor” pennies go into the slot. Mr.
McGirr has killed all the normal minority
safeguards, reduced the rights of the
Opposition to move votes of censure and
ask questions to a farce, and generally
placed the State upon a spoils-to-the-
victor basis.
No other Government than the kind of
“Labor” Government with which N. S.
Wales is saddled would contemplate the
present electoral subdivision. It repudi-
ates every principle of fairplay or public
interest and Parliamentary practice as
recognised in all British countries
of the world, including Australia
until “Labor” achieved power here. In
the United States, where similar problems
of representation to those here have
arisen, recognition has been universal that
in a new and developing country the
principle of one-vote-one-value cannot be
fully applied. Indeed, the very “Labor”
party which endorses Mr, McGirr has
given particular attention to see that it
shall not be applied in Senate representa-
tion, Tasmania with a population of a
quarter of a million being equally repre-
sented in the Senate with N. S. Wales,
which has 11 times as many people.
The McGirr plan is a plain, barefaced
gerrymander planned to keep “Labor”
permanently in power, if that is possible.
It is, also without any intention on the
part of the framers of it, calculated to
destroy the State of N. S, Wales, because
it is quite obvious that if it has the
effect which its inventors intend
it will provide also the finest argument
which the organisers of the New-States
movement have ever had. It is within the
power of any of the areas outside Sydney
and/or Newcastle, if they are determined,
to break their connection with Sydney
by the creation of new governmental units
and to bypass Sydney as a buying centre
and secure separate representation on a
State basis in the Commonwealth Par-
liament in a way which would offset
much of the industrial-electorate influ-
ence in the national Parliament.
Wool and the Future.
Back in November the average price for
greasy wool at Australian auctions was
around ss. a pound, then a record which
most of those interested expected to stand.
But it was more in December and still
more at last week’s Sydney auctions, a
fact which caused apparent astonishment
even to those most closely associated with
wool-marketing.
Chief of a number of factors which
caused what one newspaper called a
“hectic rush by buyers to secure wool
almost regardless of limits” last week was
the success of the J.O. scheme, which got
rid of the war-time wool surplus without
knocking values, and thus helped create
a position wherein, for the time being,
consumption of wool by mills is up with
production. America, too, is back in the
market after a year in which, despite
American resistance to high prices, high
prices continued. In that year the wool-
clip realised £195 million—a record —and
this season it will fetch well over £2OO
million.
The situation is satisfactory enough
from the demand point of view; wool is
“as good as gold” in the present currency
set-up, and production is unlikely to get
ahead of consumption in the immediate
future. What’s more, good seasons since
the 1944-46 drought have increased pro-
duction, and the high values therefore
apply to more wool and over a wider field
of woolgrowers.
All this is very nice; but it by no means
suggests that because the war-time
appraisement and post-war J.O. schemes
were successful control over wool-
marketing ought to be continued or
extended. The high prices have actually
resulted not from these controls but in
spite of them, because the world wanted
wool and was allowed to compete for it
on a free market as soon as war-time
control ended. In other words, the old
law of supply and demand rather than
the manipulations of planners is behind
the record Australian wool cheque.
Another aspect—and a most important
one—of a week in which even comeback
wools made as high as 9s. 4fd, a pound
is the effect of devaluation. The bidding
came strongly from soft-currency coun-
tries, and nobody with any sense can
avoid the conclusion that wool prices
reflect an all-round rise in costs result-
ing from devaluation. Devaluation was
introduced in September: wool rose in
November to new records, went higher
still in December and last week.
About the first thing wheatgrowers dis-
covered when the export price for their
product got the alleged benefit of devalua-
tion was a rise in general costs, and the
community discovered an urgent demand
for an increase in the price of bread. So
that, although the bigger wool cheque
means more money for Australia, it also
means higher all-round costs. This situa-
tion could easily force the newly-elected
Menzies Government either to revalue the
£ Australian or draw off the excess money
in some form or another —though not by
taxation —in order to restrain the upward
move of costs.
For the rest, it remains to be seen how
much the voting-out of Socialism in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand inspired overseas
wool customers, particularly in Yorkshire,
not only to buy more freely but to hbpe
for a similar result in the British elec-
tions on February 23. Australian textile
interests certainly felt freer to buy raw
material and plan for production and
expansion once the threat of nationalisa-
tion was removed.
Another important aspect is that good
seasons are inevitably followed by bad in
the cycle of Australian weather. All the
signs point to continuing high values for
wool for some years to come, but they
don’t point to continuing good seasons.
High prices for wool are one thing; hav-
ing the wool to sell is another. What pro-
portion of these big wool cheques is being
earmarked for fodder-conservation and
water-storage against inevitable droughts?.


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Few Plain Objectives.
balling is legitimate for a temporary
period during which the controlling
authorities take steps to correct the cause
of the trouble, Otherwise price-fixing, as
Socialist Britain has shown, is a delusion
and a snare, and, when tolerated for
their own sake alone, price-subsidies
merely aggravate the evil and become an
aid to the inflationary process.
The new Government’s economic con-
ference of all interests involved cannot
be held too soon, and revaluation of the
£A against sterling and the dollar is an
obvious item for the agenda. Whilst an
announcement about an actual date for
revaluation must always be a closely-
guarded secret until the thing is done, if
no revaluation is intended the people are
entitled to know the reasons.
Appreciation of the £A should check
the rise in costs and prices now, especi-
ally if coupled with other economic and
industrial measures ; and if a slump
comes later on and conditions warrant
it an adjustment of the exchange rate
the other way can be carried out in more
favorable circumstances.
A Chicken Comes Home.
Two years ago the N.S.W, Education
Department, influenced by Socialist -cum-
Communist people within both the
department and the N.S.W. “Labor”
Government, abolished the system of
grading Intermediate passes in high
schools into A’s and B’s and substituted
simple passes. It seems to be part and
parcel of the Soc.-Com, notion that
everybody should be on the same level,
and competition, even for educational
honors, is an evil that must be destroyed.
The Soc.-Com. theory is that if Johnny
Jones gets an A and three B’s it gives
Bombhead Smith, with his four B’s, an
inferiority complex and causes Jones to
put on airs. Therefore, following the
union principle of working to the pace
of the slowest worker, Jones must be
pulled down to Smith’s level, not Smith
raised to Jones’s, and so every youth and
maiden who passed the Inter, did so —
Australians, especially since their
numbers are scattered over nearly three
million square miles of territory, are badly
in need of a few plain national objectives
that can be easily seen and understood
by everyone. At present there is too
much preoccupation with the “angles” to
any problem, such as “If the Govern-
ment tries to deal with strikers will there
be a revolution?”, and “We know So-
and-So is engaged in a racket, but is it
worth while kicking up a fuss about it?
Might get some of the backwash our-
selves.” Timidity in dealing with national
problems tends to kill the national soul.
The attitude towards national prob-
lems should be based primarily on the
merits of the case, not on all the multitude
of “angles” which every problem presents.
If strikes are wrong and undemocratic,
then they have to be fought down. The
country cannot be held to blackmail by
the selfish, irresponsible or treacherous.
And illegal rackets must not be condoned.
Every individual knowing of them should
condemn them and help to squash them.
In an overregulated economy it be-
comes more and more difficult to do the
obvious thing. Socialism has had
a tendency to pass all responsibility
to the State, and so the mass
of the people have become less
inclined, over the past decade, to
stand up for right and their rights. Most
individual initiative that has been shown
in this period has been, significantly,
aimed, through the High Court, at
Socialist controls over the individual and,
by trade-unionists of independent spirit,
against the tyranny of union bosses wield-
ing the big stick, illegally, over them.
Trade-unionism has often gone wrong
in a big way in Australia. That sort of
thing cannot be tolerated where it holds
back the whole industrial development of
the country. The industrial courts have
been very considerate to the trade-union
movement for many years past, and one
blunt objective of Australians should be
that trade-unionists striking in defiance
of the law should be given short shrift.
Often in the past they have become out-
laws of the most damaging kind, and the
sooner they are taught the error of their
ways the better for themselves and every-
one else.
Another blunt objective of Australians
should be that we must produce more at
every opportunity. The production
problem involves the trade-union prob-
lem, but not only trade-unionists are
concerned. And another blunt principle
that all should learn and endeavor to
stand for is a fair day’s work for fair
pay.
The adoption of a few clear, common-
sense industrial and political principles
would help to defeat the brain-scrambling
expedients of the trade-union oppor-
tunists and the political humbugs
the country’s greatest present danger—
and give every Australian something firm
to hang on to in times of political or
economic stress or argument.
Inflation Taking Control.
Within the currency of one issue of The
Bulletin, which last week put forward,
especially addressed to the political
Country party, an argument for revalua-
tion of the Australian pound, the price
of wool at Sydney sales was reported as
having risen by 20 to 25 per cent, that
is, by the amount of the premium at
which the Australian pound stands at the
arbitrary rate, against sterling.
In other words, on Saturday week last
Australia could have reduced the £ to
par in exchange with sterling without
causing any loss on the prices at sterling
rates offered for wool on the following
Tuesday. •
Next week the basic wage, on quarterly
adjustment under the inflationary
influences at work, will be increased by
ss. in Melbourne and 3s, in every other
State capital except Brisbane, where it
will be 2s. That lifts it to £6 15s. in
the two chief industrial centres and to an
average of £6 11s. 6d. over all six States,
an average rise in one quarter from
£6 Bs. 4d. to £6 11s. 6d. In Sydney the
increase—without altering noticeably the
purchasing value —has risen from 1945
by 95., 45., 10s. and 10s. in each succes-
sive year—in the final year making the
10s. in ten months. At the present
acceleration a jump of at least 15s. can
be expected in the coming 12 months.
If this inflation is not checked—if
every effort, by the people and Govern-
ment alike, is not made to restore the
value of the £ Australian without further
delay—the consequences could be disas-
trous, ,
The expedient of Government subsidy
nf commodity prices to check this snow-
as far as anyone can tell —on the same
level.
This system wasn’t applied to the Leav-
ing (though not for the want of trying),
which continued the grading system of
A’s, B’s and honors. In November the
victims of the first Inter, levelling-down
sat for the Leaving. The results, published
this month, were a shocking revelation of
Socialist-Communist theory in practice.
Never has the standard of Leaving passes
in N.S.W. been so low. Parents, teachers
and scholars all over the State were taken
tibcick
The newly-created Inter, spirit of “Why
work hard —a low pass is as good as any
other?” was carried through to the Leav-
ing, possibly by teachers as well as pupils,
the snag being that in the Leaving the
examining professors weren’t imbued with
that spirit and scrubbed the candidates
ruthlessly. Add to this the fact that every
lad and lass who took the Leaving knew
that people waited outside the school gates
to offer them jobs at high wages —pupils
who didn’t want jobs but wanted to
continue at the Uni. or take an apprentice-
ship were looked upon as “dopes”—and
a good pass was no longer essential.
Add to both the general attitude to
both work and quality of goods that
“near enough is good enough”—an atti-
tude encouraged by union bosses and
“Labor” politicians and which naturally
filters down into the youth of the com-
munity—and the mystery of the Leaving
is explained.
Too Big a Gamble.
“A young nation like Australia,” said
Mr, Churchill in his broadcast appeal
opening the British election campaign,
“might try experiments in Socialism with-
out risk of fatal injury. But Britain, with
50 million people on a small island, was
in a very different position—a highly
artificial community, balanced precari-
ously.”
There is no dispute about the serious-
ness of the consequences of failure for
Britain. Mr. Attlee’s own former Press
adviser, the late editor of the “Daily
Herald,” earlier said the same thing as
Mr. Churchill when he was describing the
first steps of the Socialists’ “great ex-
periment” “a vast and unproven
assumption that a planned Socialist
system is economically more efficient
than a private - enterprise capitalist
system.”
If the experiment succeeds the rewards
will be enormous in terms of human well-
being and national power. If.it fails the
consequences may be measureless.
Mr. Churchill’s case is that it has
failed, that the nation stands in the grayest
economic peril ever known in peace-time,
that the Socialists’ false prosperity is
based on American subsidies soon to dis-
appear, and that to ignore these facts
would mean a terrible awakening “not
so far ahead” for the British people.
The decision at these British elections
is as vital to Australia, and to all the
British Commonwealth and Empire, as
to the United Kingdom. It is true that
the stakes pitted in the gamble were not
as high here as in the Old Country. But
proportionately the Australian people
were faced with consequences of the
“experiment” no less serious to the
country’s welfare; and the emphatic
vote to alter course recently in Maoriland
and Australia was greeted in all
three countries as giving the lead to
Britain in correction of a common error.
Nor have the three been bound merely
by a common error. The late Australian
Prime Minister deliberately tied this
country up with the Socialist gamble in
Britain.
That "Dollar Content."
The petrol “leg-pull” as Premier
Hanlon of Queensland called it—grows
more and more farcical. The import of
another 50 million gallons or less
annually, which (it is agreed) would
obviate rationing in Australia, could
hardly imperil the British economy or the
sterling drain on dollars. What is becom-
ing as clear as daylight is that the thing
o Continued on next page)
TOO MANY PASSENGERS.
“Hey! It’s about time some of you got off and pushed.


». 5.. /
M
CRAVBKA
so>i£
Outii
'
A
mum
CARRERAS LIMITED ——OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR
imperilled would be the British Socialist
Government, which would thus have been
conniving at the lifting of control over an
essential commodity in Australia, while
not only maintaining that control in
Britain but insisting that it was a grand
thing for the country.
“You see,” it tells them, “to deprive
yourselves of petrol helps to reconcile
you to doing without cars yourselves and
build them simply to sell overseas. That
is not only your national duty in the
emergency, but it is also acting up to the
Socialist religion, which you believe in.”
Somebody is playing the goat with us
somewhere. The Press reported last week
that the potentate on the Arabian oil sites,
King Ibn Saud, refuses to tolerate any
“dollar content” whatever in his royalties
from the U.S. oil company which works
the Arabian oil concessions. He declines
to take dollars except in the last resort,
and, in such case, at a premium by way ot
penalty on the oil company. His Arabian
Majesty is probably regarded as mis-
guided by our control-crazy bureaucrats,
but nevertheless he prefers golden
sovereigns with the King of England s
head on them to dollars. He is ~’ M te clear
about that, and it is no use U him
that sovereigns are even more out ot
fashion than sterling, though American
kings of mere oil business have worked
that line as hard as they can. He is due
to get £12,000,000-worth of sovereigns
every year, and he insists on being paid
that way.
So what happens is that the oil company
is negotiating with South Africa to mint
for it the necessary sovereigns—if the
International Monetary Fund can be
satisfied that the sovereigns are not tor
internal circulation there. It seems pos-
sible by convention to eliminate “dollar
content” from Ibn Saud’s royalties; why
not, therefore, from the small volume ot
extra petrol required by Australia • to
obviate petrol-rationing? Goldmining,
of course, was never a highly-regarded
industry when this country was under
Canberra Socialism.
POINTS
How McGirr must wish he’d never
heard of the 40-hour week! Ever since
he rushed it into operation as election-
bait in 1947 his costs have climbed and
he has had to increase tram, bus and
railway fares and even slap penal fares
on workers who want to travel at night
and weekends. And still his transport
services went further to the bad. Now,
with a N.S.W. election uncomfortably
close, a 3s. rise in the basic wage has
plonked another £352,000 on to his
annual wages bill, which will have
jumped by over £ll million by June 30
next. It all started from the McGirr 40-
hour week; the trouble is that every-
body has to suffer for the antics of Aus-
tralia’s most fatheaded Premier.
At N. S. Wales Liberal headquarters,
pleased though they may be with the
number of seats won from “Labor” in
their State, there should be a radical
change of attitude towards R. G. Menzies.
He, more than any other person in the
Liberal party, won the election. The
N.S.W. Liberal headquarters have still
a great deal to learn about the political
game, and some of the candidates in the
tougher electorates won in spite of head-
quarters “help.” But. wherever Menzies
went he was worth votes to his side.
In the midst of the good times now
being enjoyed by land-men in the matter
of prices and yield, a Victorian closer-
settlement tragedy has reached its pathetic
climax. The last 30 farmers in the Sunset
country west of Mildura are packing up
to walk off. Their land will be divided
among a remnant of the original settlers
who went there in 1924, and these will
try to get a living with sheep and an
occasional wheat-crop. Main cause of
the failure is the State Water Supply
Commission’s inability to keep water
flowing through channels constantly being
blocked by drift sand, which cost £20,000
a year to keep clear. The original blunder
was the official belief that a 640-acre
Mallee block in a 7in. rainfall area would
give a family a living. There were over
1000 people in 3000 sq. miles, at the
beginning ; there might be 200 left —no
more. The men now leaving will get
a little over £lOOO each as Government
compensation, but heaven knows what
good that will be to men in their fifties
who know no other job than farming
and have no land to farm.
Churchill hits the nail firmly on the
head when he tells the British people that,
since the whole Western European effort
is based on defence agaipst debilitation
under the inroads of Communism, and a
virile Britain is essential to the recovery
of Western Europe, “Socialism had been
found in all European countries to be
the weakest defence against Communism.”
The Socialists have, in fact, acted every-
where as the pathfinders for the Com-
munist revolution.
The difference between the Page
Federal health scheme and the one Mc-
Kenna failed to get going under the
Chifley regime is that whereas McKenna
proposed to centralise the thing in the
Federal bureaucracy, Page proposes that
it shall be run by the existing doctors,
hospitals, etc., and, what’s more, by the
private citizen, in that he’ll have a choice
of doctors and not have to reveal his
most intimate personal secrets to some
clerk or other.
Hardly had the Attlees let one of their
“spokesmen” say that rationing in Britain
must continue for some years than West
Germany announced abolition of all
rationing except sugar, and a correspond-
ing drop in food prices. And Britons
aren’t cheered by the knowledge that
thousands of tons of bulk-bought food-
stuffs are being held in store by the
Socialists —some of it actually rotting—
simply because Socialism doesn’t provide
for plenty; it works all the time on the
basis of organised scarcity*
Just before the Chifleys went out
Pollard had had a bit to say about a
contract whereby Britain was to take 60
million bushels of Australian wheat at the
International Wheat Agreement maximum
of A 16s. Id. a bushel. It’s now apparent
that the British were not enamored of the
price, and “negotiations were suspended.”
McEwen, who succeeded Pollard when
the Menzies Government came in, says
there’s no hitch —Australia has offered
Britain “a smaller quantity” and “the
Wheat Board offered a substantial parcel
at a certain price, Britain countered with
a lower-price offer and the Wheat Board
returned with another offer.” This is the
sort of bluff poker to be expected when
one Government takes control of a com-
modity where it is produced and another
takes control where it is consumed..
Though Oldham, the Victorian, turned
up at the Prices Ministers’ conference
with a proposition to drop prices-control,
the other coves would have none of it,
and prices-control goes on. Oldham’s
suggestion was badly timed ; both N.S.W,
and Queensland “Labor” Governments
have to face the electors in a few months.
Although members of the Victorian
Employers’ Federation “support the view
that a plan for compulsory national ser-
vice is essential,” its president, L. C. Burne,
wants to know who pays the cost of mak-
ing up the wages of employees in camp.
Maybe there’ll be some young employers
there, also, and Mr. Burne remarks:
Neither employers nor employees subject
to training should suffer as a result of
something planned for the nation’s benefit.
Is there no counteracting value, then,
derived from this training by the indi-
vidual^
Tipped that the N.S.W. and Queensland
elections will be held on the same day in
April or May. Reason: Queensland
“Labor” expects a swing against “Labor”
in N.S.W. and doesn’t want it to affect
Queensland voting.
Premier Hanlon of Queensland has a
somewhat haunted look. The great Blair
Athol mirage having dissolved, he con-
jured up the Burdekin dam to dazzle
Central- and North-Queensland electors,
but the election rushes ever nearer and
the dam project fades ever farther. Han-
lon alleged that the Chifley Government
promised tp finance the £3O million
needed and that Fadden said in his policy-
speech that the Menzies-Fadden Govern-
ment would “proceed with the Burdekin
scheme immediately.” Fadden retorted
that the Chifley Government promised
no such thing and that his own promise
was to look into it, nothing more.
Whereupon Hanlon loudly asserted:
The Burdekin Dam will be built even if
we have to build it ourselves.
The vision of the Premier leading his
Government, with all the secretaries and
clerks, armed with shovels and concrete-
mixers, up north ought to keep Queens-
land amused for a week.
This went to the printer as the new
Menzies Cabinet was meeting for the
first time since election. The country ex-
pects to hear of momentous things and
fo be given a clear lead for the future,
but only fatheads expect miracles. Eight
years of misrule cannot be corrected
overnight.
New traffic laws come into force in
Queensland on February 1, among other
things making the dipping of headlights
compulsory and tightening up hand-
signalling rules. Like N.S.W., the northern
State is striving for more safety on the
roads. Neither has any rules affecting
the slow driver —except the “driving in a
dangerous manner,” which would be hard
to prove against a slow driver—and until
some way of dealing with him is found
he’Jl be the innocent cause of accidents.
Twice within a few days young women,
finding themselves alone in N.S.W. rail-
way “dog-box” carriages with a strange
man, were attacked. The second one
jumped through a window to escape,
with the train travelling at high speed, and
was lucky not to be killed. Yet if any
young woman chooses to travel by a road-
transport service rather than be confined
in one of these perambulating dungeons
she must pay the railways 3d. a mile for
the privilege.
The Canberra Trades and Labor
Council, with that fine impartiality and
willingness to submit to majority vote
which so characterises these Labor
fellows, has taken its bath or something
never to have anything to do with the
new M.H.R. for Canberra, Dr. Nott, who
is an Independent and holds the seat by
a majority vote of the electors. It’s
what’s called excising your nasal append-
age in order to discomfort yoiir coun-
tenance.
Dedman, who acted like a spoiled brat
when Opperman pipped him for Corio,
is tipped as “political organiser” for the
A.W.U., which has concluded that its
donations to the A.L.P. election fund is
a waste of money and proposes to keep
the dough and do its own election cam-
paigning. The new job is to be worth
about £825 a year. Dedman’s three Par-
liamentary terms qualify him for £8 a
week pension, and as an ex-Minister he
retains his gold travelling pass for life.
Maybe he wouldn’t swap with Opperman
now,
Kaiser, the fellow whom the
Chifley crowd had to sack from the
C.5.1.R.0. after denying that it employed
Communists, turned up at a N.S.W. coal-
mine the other day and called a pit-head
stop-work so the coalies could hear him
spout. But times have changed for
Commos and fellow-travellers. The mine
manager curtly told Kaiser to get out, and
he got. What’s more, the miners went
calmly to work, their withers unwrung.
“Travel by Train” —but not through
Moss Vale (N.S.W.) by night if you want
refreshments. There’s a refreshment-
room there, but it doesn’t open at night
because of “shortage of staff.” It’s on
the main line from Sydney to Victoria,
Riverina, Murrumbidgee Irrigation Areas,
Canberra and what the railways love to
call, “intermediate stations,” but that
doesn’t matter, though passengers may
gaze wistfully into the pieless night at
Moss Vale and reflect that had they taken
the “Daylight Express” they could have
used its buffet service or the Moss Vale
refreshment-room,
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” points out
that Queensland branch of the Federated
Moulders’ Union was fined £7O in 1941
for an unauthorised strike, and has never
paid it. In November last it was fined
£6O for joining an illegal strike, and that
hasn’t been paid. The paper wants to
know whether or not the funds of a union
can be attached in this case. If they
can’t be —in the same way as the assets
of a company in like case —then there’s
something queer in Queensland besides
the Golden Casket.
The Federal Health Scheme stwy
has turned over to a new Page.
Another “battle for Britain” is being
fought between now and February 23,
and in some respects the result is even
more important than the one that was
fought in 1940.
“D.”: Opperman is not the only
sportsman of standing to be elected to
the new Federal Parliament. Some others
are: Bruce Graham (St. George), a
former Eastern Suburbs Rugby Union
player ; Osborne (Evans), Sydney Univer-
sity rowing blue; W. C. Wentworth
(Mackellar), an Oxford blue who rep-
resented combined British Universities
against U.S.A. universities in athletics;
Mackinnon (Wannon) captained Oxford
at cricket; Kent Hughes (Chisholm) was
an Olympic athlete; Fairbairn (Farrer)
rowed for Cambridge,
In Victoria a bookmaker can put on
his bag and take bets on anything at any
sort of a sports meeting provided there’s
at least one trotting or galloping race for
horses on the programme. It led to
abuses, such as “staging” a race of some
sort, and Hollway’s Chief Secretary
Leggatt says he’s going to clean it up.
Still, the boys can bolt over the border
and have an open go at “the dawgs” or
in a room they care to rent.
Three weeks’ annual leave for all
workers in Australia is to be a “major
objective” of the trade-unions this year,
according to Stout of the A.C.T.U. What
this country needs is a few more men who
will do three weeks’ work in three weeks.


dsf
battery
EXIDE.
■the first ignition
was an
: v,v,v-
tytd •
—the first lighting
battery was an
EXIDE.
(
—the first starting
lighting and ignition
battery was an EXIDE.
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
make"
: First choice for your car
**lv*v*%v»v»v»v»v»v«
XAa.xa
PERSONAL ITEMS
The tragic ramming of H.M. submarine
Truculent in the Thames estuary was of
sympathetic interest to all Australians ; to
the families of a small coterie of War II
naval adventurers its interest was parti-
cular. Truculent was one of the full-
grown submarines which towed those
spunky little midget subs, to the point off
Alten Fiord where they cast loose, headed
in, threaded through minefields, anti-
submarine nets and booms, past coast
batteries and anti-submarine craft and
laid their explosive eggs beneath Tirpitz’s
bulk. Of the six X-boats, three were
commanded by Australians-—Lieut. H.
Henty-Creer, R.N.V.R. (X 5), Lieut. B. M.
McFarlane, R.A.N. (X 8) and Lieut. K. R.
Hudspeth, R.A.N.V.R. (X 10). Mc-
Farlane’s craft had to be scuttled through
damage received on passage; Hudspeth’s
on the way in developed a defect in her
gyro-compass, the light in the magnetic
compass failed and the periscope-hoisting
motor caught fire, filling the tiny craft
with smoke and enforcing her surfacing
and abandoning of the attack ; Henty-
Creer’s was one of the three which
reached the target and whose charges
heaved Tirpitz’s bulk sft. out of the water.
He failed to return.
These Australians turn up in all sorts
of places. Keith Kesteven, the flying-
country-doctor of America’s Food and
Agriculture Organisation, who jumps all
over the States to help farmers in any
veterinary troubles their own experience
can’t handle, landed this week on India’s
North-West frontier—an emergency job
to organise the fight against an outbreak
of rinderpest in Afghan cattle. He was
born in Sydney.
Now looking over agricultural Victoria,
on his way round the world on the first
of the travelling scholarships for Scottish
agricultural students founded by Lady
Macßobert, of Douneside, Aberdeen-
shire, in memory of her two sons killed
in the late war, 28-year-old William Reid,
B.Agr.Sc.—and V.C. Lady Macßobert is
the fighting mother who presented the
war-time R.A.F. with a bomber, Mac-
Robert’s Reply, and four fighters; Reid
was a flight-lieutenant in Bomber Com-
mand who donned uniform in 1941,
trained in California and won his Cross
one violent night over Dilsseldorf in
1943. Later he was shot down and taken
prisoner. Demobbed in 1946, he gradu-
ated from Glasgow University last
March, in November left on his six-month
world tour, and at the end of it hopes to
work on the Macßobert estate. Here
are grazed two famous herds—one Aber-
deen Angus and one Friesian —to which,
in 1948, was added the reserve champion
Aberdeen Angus bull at the Perth (Scot-
land) Show, Emor Dercullich. Price, 7100
guineas.
“R.G.H.”: Known for 30 years to thousands
of students as “Johnnie,” Arthur John Alfred
Waldock, Challis Professor of English Literature
at Sydney University, passed on in Sydney
recently. His nickname denoted the affection
in which he was universally held. Academically
a specialist in lecturing, able to rouse his
audience to enthusiasm over authors ranging
from Shakspeare to Barrie and Joyce, he won
increasing distinction in criticism and scholar-
ship, his books on “Hamlet,” Milton, Henry
James and others being widely known and
valued as important contributions to the under-
standing of their subjects. A work on tragedy,
Greek and Shakspearian, now with the Cam-
bridge University Press, will reveal the full
subtlety and profundity of his mind. Personally,
to his staff, he was always a friend, always one
of themselves; to students he was unfailingly
polite and helpful. So great was his charm that
generations of damsels battered at his study
door —in vain, for he remained unmarried.
When, as a colleague, I think of Waldock it is
of his waxing amusingly indignant, privately,
over the absurdities of some writer or reviewer.
Then he was vehemently eloquent, flaying in
specific terms the offender against sense, and
rising to a climax which seemed to involve his
whole being. Having administered the crown-
ing stroke, he would sink back in his chair
panting, triumphant and —laughing! Then he
was at his best, and gave entertainment that,
unfortunately, could not be shared by a wider
audience —he was too considerate of others to
speak or publish against them. Though he
loved his own country, Waldock was at hqart
a cosmopolitan, responding to the graciousness
and cultivation of life in old Europe, and he
spent a good deal of his leave in visiting over-
seas* colleagues and reading in the British
Museum library. His life was truly gentle,
and with him passes from the academic sphere
much that raised it above the hurly-burly of
ambitious strife and the rudeness of materialism.
He was 51.
Victimised by Mcßeath while attend-
ing the Y.W.C.A. hall in Melbourne,
where Esperantists from most parts of
the world have been conferencing, Dr.
Cyrus John Caldera, of Perth, newly-
elected president of the Australian associ-
ation. Dr. Zamenofs artificial language,
invented in Warsaw in 1878, can now
claim more than four million speakers ; at
the Melbourne conference even children
ESPERANTO CHIEF.
of three lisped it and knew no other.
With a career almost as international as
his language. Caldera was born in Pied-
mont, Italy, became professor and director
of the ear, nose and throat clinic at
Pavia for 17 years, then shifted as surgeon
to the hospital at Verona. There he came
in contact with many renowned singers,
one of his jobs being to examine nightly
the throats of opera performers at
Verona’s famed open-air Colosseum. A
linguist already. Caldera decided to learn
Esperanto in addition, and got his diploma
in four months —the average person can
master the lingo in 12. Having come to
a slight disagreement with Musso over
religion, and refusing to change his, the
doctor lost his job and came to Australia.
The last conference of the sect was held
in Perth. This one was attended by
members of pretty well every race and
nation, and as there are representatives
in very town of consequence throughout
the civilised world, no Esperantist need be
a lone stranger in any of them.
Attorney-General John Spicer writes
that that personal par (B. 4/l/’5O) and
Who’s Who incorrectly allot him 60 years.
So hereby off comes 10 years.
The housing problem isn’t all hard-
luck stories. Bill Clifton, a 58-year-old
British veteran of World War I, came to
Australia in 1912, worked in Gippsland,
lost an arm in France (serving with the
24th Battalion), married in England and
settled there. For 26 years he painted
a glowing picture of life in Australia,
and a year ago landed back in Melbourne
to make his story good. He bought a
20-acre property at Beaconsfield with a
two-roomed shack on it for £BOO, con-
verted it into a six-roomed house for an-
other £BOO, doing the building himself
with some slight assistance at the week-
ends, and the other day welcomed nine
more of the sept at the wharf in Mel-
bourne. The nine comprised his wife, his
son and his son’s wife and two children,
his daughter with her husband and two
children ; one more son is coming later.
They will all share Bill’s house together.
To command the Seventh Infantry
Brigade, headquartered in Brisbane,
Brigadier James Eric Martin. iu
Brisbane, schooled at that fine old Too-
woomba Grammar on the Downs, _he s
been permanently soldiering since 1923,
with a lieutenancy that turned to a
lieutenant-colonelcy by 1937. Wasting no
time when Hitler banged the gong, Martin
raised and had command of the 2/9t
Infantry Battalion, A.1.F., took them to
England for garrison duty during the
Battle of Britain (0.8. E.), then hopped
into it properly in the Middle East. Here
his crowd collected 1700 prisoners,
boarded in besieged Tobruk for six savage
months (D. 5.0.), then worked their
damaging way up through Syria. Martin
returned home in 1942, took on garrison
duty in Darwin, then command of the
19th Infantry Brigade, which he held till
its demobilisation in 1945. At 45 he
rates as one of the Northern State s
ablest soldiers.
Professor T. A. Gordon, vice-chancellor
of New Zealand University, has been
elevated to the executive council chair-
manship in the Association of Universities
of the British Commonwealth. He relieves
Lord Harlech, pro-chancellor of the Uni-
versity of Wales. Prof. Gordon is the
first outside the U.K. to hold the chair.
Here presented, Malcolm Llewellyn
McColm, new Liberal Federal member
for Bowman (Q.). Bora in Cardiff,
Wales, son of a Scottish sea captain, he’s
been an Australian since he was three
months young. Schooled at Scots Col-
lege, at Warwick on the Downs, his life
broke into adventure when he worked
his passage to England and joined the
R.A.F. as pilot in 1936. Two years later
he qualified for membership of the Cater-
pillar Club ; he represented Bomber Com-
mand at two Royal tournaments and,
when Hitler broke loose, was adjutant of
139 Bomber Squadron, the first British
unit to go into action. In 1940, leading
21 Bomber Squadron over Europe, he
crashed again, this time through lead
received, and for the next four and a half
years was in German prison camps.
Some spectacular escapes here, jumping
from cars, trains and the ends of labori-
ously dug tunnels, which ended in stowing-
away aboard a Swedish ship in the Baltic,
recapture by a German patrol vessel and
incarceration in a special international
camp Just as hard to hold here, Mc-
Colm’s escape attempts won him a
“mention,” but no freedom, and he had
to wait for the surrender before regain-
ing England, and a post in the Air
LIBERAL ADVENTURE.
Ministry. Knocking back a permanent
commission, he returned to Queensland in
1946, to a job in the Bureau of Industry
and an interest in politics which bore
fruit on December 10. His youthful bio-
graphical ticket includes 10 times round
the Horn in his father’s ship Mount
Stewart, the last full-rigged ship to wear
the Red Duster in the Australian trade,
and, before joining the R.A.F., several
occasions on which he was a finalist in
Commonwealth buckjumping and bul-
lock-riding championships. Now 35, he’s
married to a Scottish M.A. from St.
Andrew’s University.
Stepping down from the footboard of
Victorian Railways after 34 years, the
last nine as chairman of Railway Com-
missioners, Norman Charles Harris, Old
Digger, Lt.-Colonel and C.M.G., D. 5.0.,
M. and “mention.” Landing his science
degree at the McGill University in
Montreal, young Harris laid the per-
manent way, as it were, of his career by
serving a special apprenticeship with the
Canadian Pacific Railway. A period in
Tasmania as assistant-engineer with a
hydroelectric co., then he joined his
beloved Vic. railways, and had a year of
draftsmanship before the Kaiser inter-
rupted. Engineering through Egypt and
France for four years, he climbed the
promotion ladder to major as inevitably
as, back on rails in 1919, he shunted
through most of the railway’s engineering
posts till, in 1940, he pulled up chairman
of Commissioners. Disliking the en-
forced dependence of his engines on
N. coal, he planned the conversion
of 72 of them to oil-burners, and last year
was busy experimenting with pulverised
brown coal. He retires with the satis-
faction that both experiments have suc-
ceeded. Now 62, tennis is still his pet
pastime.
Shifting camp from the Army Tech-
nical School at Ingleburn (N.S.W.) to
command of the young 11th Infantry
Brigade in Townsville, signals-specialist
Brigadier , Roy Kendall. The brig,
theorised in his speciality at Duntroon
and the British Army School of Signals,
and practised in the Greek campaign,
where he looked after the signals of the
Ist Australian Corps and won a
“mention.” Getting out of Greece, he
stayed in the Middle East as G.S.O. of
signals at A.I.F. headquarters, returned
home, in 1942 to responsibility for the
signals of our New Guinea forces in
their campaign, and the next year took his
first-hand experience with the Australian
Military Mission to Washington. Army
signalling these days implies more than
merely laying wires, and Kendall has
other initials besides his C.B.E. —associate
member of the Institute of Electrical
Engineers (London) and Fellow of the
Australian Institute of Radio Engineers.
He’s 52.
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, over 70, Sid Robinson, of the
N.-Queensland sugarcane towns of Proserpine
and Halifax, and possibly that area’s best-
known crocodile-shooter. His rifle cracked just
as accurately until a couple of years ago. A
croc.-catching brother, St. John Robinson,
owns, near Townsville, one of the country’s
largest private zoos; his N.Q. saurians now live
in most Australian capital zoos, as well as
several overseas, including the New York
collection.
In Perth, at 80, fine old soldier Henry Morley,
one-time captain in the Tenth Hhssars and
relative of English statesman Viscount John
Morley. In Saskatchewan with the Canadian
forces which put down the Louis Riel rebellion
of 1885, he served next in a lively campaign
on India’s North-West Frontier, came to
Westralia in 1901, prospected for gold at
Marble Bar, edited a Fremantle paper, became
secretary to the State Attorney-General and
eventually State Electoral Registrar. Six-feet-
three-inches, he retained his ramrod straightness
to the last.
At Suva, Fiji, at 51, H. E. Nicholson, Tongan
Finance Minister. A native of Thames (M.L.),
he entered the service of the island Government
in 1925, and later became Finance Minister to
the Queen of Tonga.
In London, Dr. Eric Henry, Old Digger,
well-known Toowoomba (Q.) ophthalmic sur-
geon. An infantile-paralysis victim, he was
wellnigh crippled by it after gaining post-
graduate honors in London in 1932. It could
not prevent his heroic work in the London
blitz. A sort of standing locum tenens for
colleagues called up for service, his pain-racked
body bending and hobbling and sustaining, his
name became a synonym for guts even
among the overworked medicos of London’s
savage days.
At 76, in Sydney, Horace Rice, one-time
Australasian tennis singles champion and Davis
Cup man against America in 1913; his list of
additional titles would fill a paragraph. He
played often with Alf Jones; old-timery at
Strathfield, then the tennis mecca, will remember
Alf, meticulous in sharply-creased flannels, and
Horrie, short and bounceful of energy, in
white linen “bloomers” gartered below the
knee over long black socks. A left-arm slow
bowler with Sydney Cricket Club for years,
Rice’s agility and character were personified in
his nickname— “Evergreen.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“E.H.M.”: A bloke created a minor
sensation at Burleigh Heads (Q.) during
the holiday season by applying water-
divining to watermelons. Walking up to
a stall he placed a small twig on a
melon. The twig vibrated only slightly,
so he tried it on several others. On one
the twig trembled violently (possibly
the sea breeze may have grown
stronger). Paying over the necessary,
the diviner cut a chunk out of
the melon, found he had picked a good
one, got into his car with his girl and
drove away. Many of the gaping crowd
picked melons by the same process, but
nobody was game to risk 3s. for one on
which the diviner’s twig didn’t agitate in
order to satisfy himself whether the
method was a fake or not.
* * * *
“Ojunee”: A sheep-station entirely sur-
rounded by water and which therefore
doesn’t need boundary-riders, isn’t
bothered by rabbits and wouldn’t know
an A.W.U. organiser if it saw one has
just participated in the distribution of
extra profits from the war-time wool dis-
posals scheme, total of which ran into
about £25 millions. It is about three
miles from Sydney G.P.0., and when the
station hands aren’t dipping or crutching
the sheep they make and repair ships.
Cockatoo Island Dockyard runs about a
dozen sheep to keep the grass down, and
during past years they’ve been shorn regu-
larly and the fleeces, locks, bellies and
pieces put in a bag and sent to a wool
firm. The other week there arrived at
the island a cheque for £2 10s., its share
of the distribution fund —it may never
be presented, since the manager wants to
frame it as an historical document.
* * * *
“Euroclydon”: What has become of
the reprehensible maiden aunt? Now
that superfluous sisters don’t get born,
or get themselves a forty-hour and
financial job if they exist at all, that
honorary member of the family the
quondam maiden aunt is sadly missed.
Most of us have affectionate recollections
of the Aunty Nance who smacked the
pants and always did the buttons up,
the Aunty May who came to stay and the
indispensable Aunty Lin who always
filled the biscuit-tin. What would our
mothers have done without the spare
sister to give a hand, even in the days
when a first-class servant got 10s. a week
and had to earn it —the wretch. With
pinguid patronage, Paterfamilias was
wont to ask why his sister-in-law had
never married. Chiefly because she was
too busy getting round to the rescue of
the poor sistefs who had taken on holy
matrimony. And what she missed, in
her single state, was what her over-
wrought married sister only wondered.
Nowadays, with no servants, no sisters,
a spare maiden aunt, if we had one,
would be worth her weight in gold.
* * * «
“Clooter”; The dormant war between
Melbourne and Sydney has been slightly
warmed up* —almost solely a war between
certain newspapers of each city which
pounce delightedly on anything dero-
gatory to the other. Mostly it’s weather,
sometimes it’s football, or girls, or
beaches, or politics—though it’s never
beer, because Melbourne is paramount at
least in that. This time it looks like being
fleas. A St. Kilda woman wrote to one
of the local papers with a recipe for get-
ting rid of the things, after hearing that
they were thick in Melbourne. A day or
so later the paper joyfully announced that
the fleas she referred to were not Mel-
bourne but Sydney beasts, and that the
lady said the method she recommended
was a Sydney one and she had “no experi-
ence of fleas in her Melbourne home.”
Any day now we may expect some Sydney
“Why all the hurry, Mildred?"
paper to come out with a “special page
and pictures” to deny the canard, with
heavy articles from scientific gentlemen
and alleged evidence to prove that the
Sydney fleas came from Melbourne in the
first place. A (flea) plague on both their
houses!
* * * *
“Col M.”: Inquiries tell me that there
are a host of us, normal fellows awake,
whose subconscious minds sometimes
produce in the small hours what they
think are side-splitting remarks. These
gems might be lost for ever, but appear
so funny at the time that the dreamy
bloke wakes his wife up to tell her, or
else, if she is already awake and fuming,
will not let her get to sleep again until
she agrees that his midnight wit is bril-
liant. Mine recently announced that
during the night I had been bringing
down the plaster with my snores and, on
being told to roll over, exclaimed, bursting
with pride and mirth:
Turn over seal
Or else you’ll peel.
In the light of day it doesn’t look much.
But considering that it was whisked from
my subconscious at 2 a.m., with no warn-
ing, was reasonably appropriate, and had
metre and rhyme, I think it was almost
worthy of my .father, whose best effort
at snoring and being asked to turn round
was to leap out of bed, pirouette on one
toe, and arrive back saying “There. If
a thing’s worth doing it’s worth doing
properly.”
* * * #
“Spike”: Sydney’s transport man
Winsor bought himself a hornet’s-nest by
suggesting weekend impounding of cars
owned by people convicted of reckless or
drunken driving. The resentment of his
opponents seems to have been aroused
mainly by what they term his “kinder-
garten tactics” and the impression that
he’s overreached the mark a bit. One
irate motorist, writing to a daily on the
subject, quoted Magna Carta. In one
of those “man-in-the-street” sessions on
the air a group of city car-owners were
interviewed. Most of them were against
the plan, one with the practical query
“Where are they going to build the car-
park to put all these impounded cars,
for if they merely impound the keys—
well, the old duplicate sets do fit.” Of
the two men in this interview who were
for the plan, one’s view was that any
preventative would be better than none,
while the other held the startling view
that cars have personality, and said “As
they are equally to blame for an acci-
dent, they should be, with their owner,
deprived of the use of the road,” Mr.
Winsor probably could have gained the
approval of all careful motorists by sug-
gesting that the existing law be used to
give convicted dangerous drivers sen-
tences stiff enough to make the potential
variety think twice before they put their
foot down,
* * * *
“Spark Plug”: About 30 years ago a
Territory pastoralist was using petrol like
water —he was one of .the first big men
in the Territory to realise the value of
motor power. The ship he’d chartered
to take his stuff to Booroolooloo, in the
Gulf, was loading. An old sailor, he
realised that his bore-casing, Sin. stuff,
was measured by space, not weight: it
would cost no more to ship full than
empty. He had tin caps soldered over
the ends of all the casing and filled the
cylinders with petrol. But while the cas-
ing was lying on the wharf a lumper
smacked a cap with his hook; the petrol
squirted out. A meeting was called. The
pastoralist learned that he would have
been liable for untold fines had he
shipped the stuff. He had to drain all
hi§ casing.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Twenty-one-year-old
Harry Suters, of Aireys Inlet, will prob-
ably be the last Victorian ever to round
Cape Horn in a windjammer. He went
home as an A.B. on the four-masted
barque Pamir, and when he paid off at
Cardiff (Wales) the Finnish owners had
already lost £17,000 on the voyage. It
cost another £6000 to fly 16 Maori-
landers and Australians home as on N.Z.
articles; the A.Bs. received £50 a
month —more than double that of a sail-
ing-ship captain at the turn of the cen-
tury. Pamir, along with her rival the
barque Passat, which she followed home
from Port Victoria (S.A.), were the last
two deep-water square-riggers in commis-
sion, and both are now grain storehulks
at Penarth. Although the 128-days’
voyage was not without its hardships,
young Suters remarked to me “I’d go
home again tomorrow at eight pounds a
month if either vessel ever came out
again.” In the roaring forties the cargo
shifted, there were icebergs, snow-squalls
and a 30-days’ gale during which he was
continuously wet through. They rounded
Cape Horn under full sail on July 12 —
Suters’s 21st birthday—and then in the
North Atlantic there was a hurricane.
The young A.B. is a chip off the old block.
His father was 40 years at sea in all sorts
of ships from Bluenose windbags to R.N.
ships in World War I, when he was
wounded both at Gallipoli and in the
Zeebrugge raid.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Collectors whose wives ob-
ject to their buying expensive books
should draw a cancelling line through
the price and write a much smaller figure
beneath it, making it read “255. reduced
to 3s. 6d.,” or some such.
* * * ~ *
“S.W.A.”: The diver was only down
10ft., so, even with the old hand-pump, it
was an easy job for one man to keep up
his air-supply. As three men were pro-
vided as pump-hands, they took it in turns
to turn the handle and to have a spell.
It was Jimmy the Whinger’s turn when
the tender got the signal that the diver
was coming up and he called out, “Stop
the pump,” but the Whinger was too busy
grumbling over what Christmas had cost
him and didn’t hear and so kept
on turning. When the diver was
up and undressed he saw Jimmy
still turning the handle, so he
walked over to him and said,
“Come on, send me down some
more air, I can hardly breathe.”
For a few seconds the handle spun
round with unaccustomed speed
until the Whinger woke up, and
then it looked as if the diver would
go back into the water minus his
suit.
* * * *
“Pip Tok”: Press reports that increased
tobacco supplies have enabled the forma-
tion of three smokers’ clubs in West
Berlin point to the revival of an old
German custom. Such clubs were a
feature of German garrison and student
life of past generations. One of the most
famous of these was founded by King
Frederick William I, of Prussia, the stern
martinet who sired Frederick the Great.
After indulging in his favorite pastime of
reviewing his Guards by day he would
foregather with his most intimate friends
by night in what he called his Tobacco
College. There, in an atmosphere of
beer-fumes and tobacco-smoke, affairs of
State would be discussed and the latest
guardroom stories retailed. While
most countries have their drinking-
songs, I know of only two smoking-
songs, Charles Stuart Calverley wrote
an “Ode to Tobacco,” which has been
set to music, but I have never heard it
sung at a smoke-social in England or
Australia. The other is a German
students’ smoking-song, the words of
which were translated into English by
the late Professor F. A. Todd, of Sydney
University. It used to be sung with
great gusto at students’ shivoos during
the first quarter of the century, and may
bo still. Both songs are included in the
Australasian Students’ Song Book, first
published in 1911.
"I'm just resting my feet, George."
CHARACTERISTIC PIECE.
“An English agricultural laborer has decided
not to migrate to Australia because he considers the
Henry Lawson postage-stamp ‘divested of any trace
of his Majesty the King,’ savors of ‘treasonable,
knavish tricks against the British Crown.’ ”
When, by an act of special grace
Unusual from the “Labor” camp,
The P.M.G. put Lawson’s face
On a tuppenny-ha’penny postage-stamp,
Henry, by some posthumous judo,
Seemed to be beating his own hoodoo.
Calm and sincere, the face presided
Over the business of the nation;
Whatever a letter had inside it
Of profit, love, hate, peculation
Or press-contributors’ inanity,
Left undisturbed his warm humanity.
For cocky-farmers’ weary wives
His Nordic glooms evoked no shade,
And city urchins’ tortured lives
Could no more drive him hopping mad—
He had at last become serene
As, living, he had never been.
Too good to last, such fortunes were —
As Henry always knew; none better;
An English farmers’ laborer,
Seeing the face upon a letter,
Kicked it with swift Imperial feet
Among the Faces in the Street,
The English farmers’ laborer’s reason
For treating Henry like a tramp
Was that it constituted treason
To put a writer on a stamp —•
I’ll say no more; the details bore me—
But ain’t it like a Lawson story!
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


“Nel-Ral”: One of the local belles was
married on the Saturday. On Monday
her father died. On the following Friday
the local rag was up to the minute: “ The
bride looked charming as she entered the
church on the arm of her deceased
father.”
**. * *
“Zake”: A strong drive seems to be
taking place to “plug” the short sock—l
refer to things not pugilistic but sartorial.
An excellent thing, of course, for the
manufacturer —he gets the same price for
something which requires just about half
the material of the usual “half-hose.
They may possibly be right enough to
wear, except by the lolly-legged who,
when they relieve the tension on the
knees of their strides by hoisting them a
few inches as they sit down, display
calf-muscles like chickens’ insteps. Prob-
ably, also, they may even be relatively
comfortable —until the elastic-top goes,
and then will begin the inevitable down-
ward slide until eventually the heel of
the sock disappears inside the boot, leav-
ing the wearer with a distinct ’Ungry
’Erb look about the hocks. Manufac-
turers may as well make a job of it and
give us men socketfes like they make for
the women. They’d have the same effect,
and they’d get the same price with using
only, in this case, about 10 p.c. of the
normal material,
* * * *
“Col M,”: Not very long ago the city’s
dailies turned their guns on to the
common halfpenny. Their theory was
that it had now served its purpose with
480 of its kind needed to equal the £AI,
or 12s. 6d. pre-war. One journal inter-
viewed a group of people named Brown
and asked if they thought the coin obso-
lete. From their replies it looked as if
the halfpenny had had its day ; just so
much junk to cart about. It seemed to
have fallen to a mere prop for jokes
about Scotsmen, or a standard for Boy
Scouts who wished to measure things an
inch long. From the papers it would not
have been surprising if the coin had
vanished overnight and in its place ap-
peared the penny as our lowest form of
oscar. Yet today I look in my pocket and
find no fewer than seven halfpennies. Try
it yourself. My acquaintances recall that
at various times lately they have seemed
to be loaded with them. A halfpenny
has been tacked on to the three main
calls for beer.
* * * *
“Flip”: This '“first-or-second-half-of-
the-century” query which 1950 brought
with it is playing up badly. In London
the Astronomer Royal and the 8.8. C.
have announced that the first half has
12 months to go. America turned this
edict down flat and is going ahead in
preparation for its celebrations, while in
France they are already popping corks.
India maintains that the whole business
is silly, as we are actually in the.year
2009, while Argentina says that the only
thing worth celebrating about 1950 is the
centenary of the death of the Liberator
San Martin. Russia has no views on the
matter whatsoever. Both the main
“ He's now a chief stoker and quite happy.”
theories look equally correct when set
down on paper, but the Astronomer
Royal has my money for saying it in
simple language. He claims: “Reckon-
ing starts from the birth of Christ. The
first year a.d. was not the year zero ;
it was the year one. A century is 100
years, therefore the first century ended
not on December 31 in the year 99, but
on December 31 in the year 100. Every
year thereafter ending in 00 should be
counted as the last year of the old cen-
tury, and similarly each ending in 50 as
the last year of the first half of the
century.”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Dr. Radin Usman Sastroamid-
jodjo, Charge d’Affaires of the Indonesian
Republic, thinks Australian universities should
teach Malay, both for useful and academic
reasons. Certainly more practically useful than
French, the only trouble would be how to
teach it. Malay has almost as many dialects
as there are languages in Europe. Even the
lingua franca, a sort of Esperanto for
100,000,000 people, has innumerable variations.
It bears the same relation to true Malay as
pidgin English does to the speech of Shakspeare,
and it can be learnt on the way up to Singapore
in a steamer. Ninety per cent, of white men
never get beyond it. Malay proper, which is
said to be spoken in its purest form in Menang-
kabau, the alleged cradle of the Malay race in
Sumatra, is just as complex as any European
language. The word “to carry,” expressed by
“bawa” in bazaar Malay, has a separate word
for to carry on the head, the shoulders, in the
arms as a baby, at arm’s length, and so forth.
There is a special word for the sound made
by a nervous man rubbing his backside on a
velvet-upholstered sofa. Intending students
should be grateful that there are only about
two classic works in Malay literature,
Sejarah Melayu, a turgid account of the courts
and wars of the ancient sultans, with one
rather interesting description of a battle with
elephants between the Sultan of Malacca and
the Portuguese invaders and numerous stories
of harem intrigues, none of which have the
voluptuous flavor of the Arabian Nights enter-
“A good job you didn't throw them coconuts, Martha.”
tainment. The other is Kalilah dan Damina,
a Persian adaptation of zEsop’s fables and
a " ckn \ folklore with the mousedeer
taking the place of Brer Rabbit. Modern
journalistic Malay is a hodge-podge of Arabic,
Persian, a bit of Sanskrit, Portuguese, Dutch
and English, Javanese and Malay, plus a con-
stant stream of new words derived from science,
Tfae student who takes his degree in the doct(?r . s
suggested subject can listen tp a conversation
between two natives in the street and won’t
understand a syllable—but that goes for most
academically-taught lingoes.
* * * *
“Bungle”; Don’t for one moment
imagine that Cameron o’ Erracht, or Mac-
donald o’ the Isles or any of those
grand old tough warriors who swaggered
up and down Scottish banks and braes in
the breacan-feile, gave it a careless hitch
here, and a twist there, and were dressed.
Ah, na, laddie, na! According to one
writer the piece of tartan two yards wide
and six yards in length, known as the
breacan-feile, or belted plaid, was care-
fully “plaited” in the middle, till it fitted
the wearer. In dressing this “extended
from one side around his back to the
other, leaving as much at each end as
would cover the front of the body, over-
lapping each other. The plaid, being thus
prepared, was firmly bound round the
loins with a leathern belt, in such a way
that the lower side fell down to the
middle of the knee-joint, and then, while
there were the foldings behind, the cloth
was doubled before. The upper part was
then fastened on the left shoulder with a
large brooch, or pin, so as to display to
the most advantage the tastefulness of
the arrangement, the two ends being
sometimes suffered to hang down ; but
that on the right side, which was of
necessity the longest, was more usually
tucked under the belt.” It must have
been a grand day when the feile beag was
universally accepted for Highland dress!
Even at that, care must be exercised in
dressing—only the Scots word “trollopy”
can adequately describe a kilt worn below
the centre of the knee-cap;
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The steamhammer-
driver who wore his handgrip into a
steel control-handle (B. 28/12/’49) had
tougher hands than mine. When I
started work in the building trade there
were no kid-glove methods with appren-
tices. For months I carried bricks and
“knocked-up” mortar. The larry I used
for the latter job (a tool like a hoe with
holes in the blade) had a flaw in the
handle where my left hand gripped it.
To ask the carpenter to spokeshave the
irritant out would have been to admit
that my hands were soft. I had my pride.
Both hands blistered, then calloused ; but
where the protuberance stood out on the
handle the cushion on my left hand
moulded itself around a V-shaped indent.
More than 25 years have passed since I
used the old larry; I’ve had easier jobs
—and darn sight harder ones. Three or
four times my hands have become white
and soft with cushy jobs, then brown and
corny with hard manual work again.
But on my left hand the indent has always
remained, as though notched out by a
knife,
* * * *
“Bookay”: “H.A.L.’s” account of the
tapa-cloth book (B. 11/1/’5O) recalls the
fact that the word “book” comes from
the Anglo-Saxon boc, a book, the beech ;
German buche, the beech, buck, a book,
because the Teutons first wrote on
beechen boards.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”; Our local drunk was
meandering home the other night when
he came across a step-ladder which some-
body had left standing on the footpath.
He examined the thing with some curio-
sity, then put his hand on a step and
peered upward, seeing nothing beyond the
top but the darkening sky of evening. So
he carefully and laboriously and some-
what dangerously went up the steps until
he reached the top, where, to his vast
astonishment, there was nothing but the
footpath below him.. “Blow; me tight,”
he muttered, teetering on his elevation.
“Firsh time I errer see anybody leave a
bloomin’ ladder behin’ an’ take the
flamin’ wall away.”
* * * *
“Bughouse”: So “Tarbush” (B.
21/12/’49) pictures the vast forests of the
Carboniferous Age as “firmly anchored
in good black earth.” The earth upon
which such vegetation grew was practi-
cally white, or, at best, a very pale blue.
“Tarbush” could obtain samples from any
high-class ironmongery—up to 1914 it
was retailed in W.A. as English fireclay,
a highly heat-resistant earth found in ex-
tensive layers under many British coal-
seams. Having obtained this earth, in
which obviously those primeval forests
grew, I advise that he lay down a bed of
it and try to grow wheat and vegetables
in it. His failure will then inform him
what I meant in saying that the present
soil of the globe, so admirably adapted
for the support of Man, was, and still is,
the product of the labors of, mainly, the
termite.
* * * *
“Beau Forte”: About these under-
takers (B. 4/1/’5O). My first job on
leaving school was with a country under-
taker-c Mm-cabinetmaker at a salary of
7s. 6d. a week, plus an extra ss. whenever
he got a funeral. He was, as the local
sexton described him, “A fine, solemn
man, cut out for his job,” In the work-
shop he was a bit too solemn. He seldom
spoke and never smiled or joked. I
took a fancy to the cabinetmaking part
of the job, but the only thing I liked
about undertaking was that people seldom
died in our little town. I dreaded the
day when I would have to make my
first appearance on the old horse-drawn
hearse. I couldn’t see myself done up
in a belltopper hat and clawhammer-tailed
coat. In short, I was not cut out to be
an undertaker. But the worst happened
one bright morning. I was sweeping out
the shop when my gloomy boss came
striding briskly down the path from his
house —whistling—and greeted me with
a cheery “Good morning.” A
smile lit up his face as he told
me the good news: “Poor old
So-and-so passed away last
night. He’s been hanging on for
a long time.” All that morning
the boss whistled and sang as
he tapped away merrily con-
structing the coffin. At times
he would stand back and gaze
on his craftsmanship with admi-
ration. And me,? Well, I be-
came the solemn one. I dug up
my mate and we went rabbiting.
And so ended my career as an
undertaker.
* * * * c
“Uramao”: Recently an ex-mayor of
Oamaru, a small town in Otago, Maon-
land, was visiting Sydney. Remem-
bering that a native of thatt town was
Jack Pheloung, conductor of Manly band
and a well-known judge of brass-band
contests, the ex-mayor decided to look
Jack up. While making inquiries the
visitor saw a young chap strolling along
one of Manly’s streets, stopped him, and
asked if he knew where the conductor
of Manly’s brass band lived. The young
fellow explained that he was only a
visitor from New Zealand. And what
part of New Zealand do you happen to
come from?” asked the ex-mayor. From
Oamaru,” the young man said.
A GOOD “HEAD.”
“Women are now washing and rinsing their hair
in beer, which, say hairdressers, imparts an excellent
sheen.”
Since history’s dawn, back in the distant ages.
In Pharaoh’s Egypt, Carthage, and beyond,
Men—whether mental clods or mellow sages—
Have been united in a common bond:
They’ve sought a strong potation that assuages
The thirst, while lifting them from “black
despond”;
That has in it a kick —even a sting—
Equipped to make them either fight or sing.
Italians, French —in essence, every Latin—
In products of the vintner find esteem.
A distillate of dew, as smooth as satin
Upon the tonsils is the Celtic dream.
Concoctions which their makers boiled a rat in
Delight some Eastern tastes —or so ’twould
seem#
But clear and nut-brown ale, “brewed in the
wood,”
Is what the Anglo-Saxon race finds good.
What better cry epitomised the nation
Than that stentorian one of “Wassail all!’ ?
It breathed the very spirit of celebration
As laughter rang in old baronial hall.
And in that healthful malt-and-hops libation
Yeomen derived their sturdiness withal.
But —“Lord give us strength!” becomes the
toper’s prayer,
The stuff’s now used to wash milady s hair 1
Were it for just a temporary treating
Of, say, some scaly dandruff which had dried
Her scalp, a foaming beer might take some
beating, _ .
A use which could be slightly justified.
But males, condemned to many a beerless
greeting
Of cobbers, although every pub they ye tried,
Will be inclined to give some vivid hints
To dames who dip their locks in beer for
“tints.”
Two heads—Or so the hoary proverb mentions
Are better far than one; which may be true—
But not when there are feminine intentions
To use one from a strong and amber brew
On hers. Let there be no misapprehensions:
That’s quite a clime, but one which quite a
few
Will overlook if, of the foaming juice
(Sans soap), they may be granted second use.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wippegong”: The N.S.W. railways
now run the Riverina Express, Sydney to
Albury, in daylight, object being to
eliminate air competition or eclipse the
Spirit of Progress or something. I’m all
for it. To catch the dreary night express
you went to the station among squabbling
sparrows, dirty doves, cackling mynas
and scavenging pigeons, and it wasn’t
until about Junee next morning that you
caught sight of a native. Now you leave
when the day is fresh, and within an hour
are among maggies, peewees and Billy
the Wag, mounted as by right on a cow.
When erosion gullies appear rainbow-
birds glint above them —the banks are
convenient for tunnelling—while in ponds
beside the line blue herons hardly trouble
to pause in their hunting ; a tearing air-
conditioned train with public-address
system is just another silly noise to a
heron. Rosellas brighten the view before
lunch (which is not so bright), then as
you roll over the range all the old familiar
fowl appear: galahs and red-backed
parrots, ibis and plover, kestrels (they’re
in the city, too, but are brighter here)
and kites, little eagles, a few budgies and
quarrion, crows by the hundred and a
black duck and brood on a railside tank.
The afternoon wears on and Riverina
memories come crowding back; the
white-necked herons on the lagoon near
Wagga, the sun dipping behind The Rock
recall camps and cobbers, and so on to
Albury. Dusk now, but not too late to
stroll along Dean-street and sit down to
a plate of Murray cod.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: When we fixed the
scrub-falling contract the boss undertook
to feed us in the house, and when we got
there we found three daughters, each of
whom looked us over with a speculative
eye. After a talk the boss took us to a
hut behind the homestead and we settled
in. Mat wore a thoughtful look, and,
about an hour later, borrowed a horse,
saying he had an important mission in
the town. He wouldn’t tell me what it
was. Next , day we started work. When
we got back to the hut at midday it was
swept and garnished, there were flowers
by the window-sill and female touches
everywhere. We looked at each other,
ate our dinner with the family in a
thoughtful silence and set out for work
again after Mat went to the hut for
something. When I got in that night
there confronted me on the dressing-
table two framed photographs, one of a
handsome brunette and one of a some-
what faded blonde, and across the bottom
of each was scrawled in ink, “To my dear
husband.” I’d seen those pictures on the
wall of the billiard saloon in town, and
Mat admitted they’d cost him ss. each.
After I’d stopped laughing I said, “I
hope they don’t notice it’s the same
handwriting on both.” They didn’t,
apparently, and thereafter we finished our
contract in peace. As we packed up to
leave Mat picked the pictures up and
stuck them in his bag. “They could come
in handy,” he reflected. “Yair,” I said,
“but why did y’ pick the dark one for
y’rself?” “By cripes,” he said, “if we
got t’ have a missus each I’m not havin’
that blonde; I trust ’em worse than dark
ones.”
* * * *
“Zake”: To the city-dweller the word
“anabranch” may as well be foreign.
Withal it is a fascinating one to roll
around the tongue, and it was first used
just over a century ago by Colonel Jack-
son, editor of Geographical Society’s
journal, in which he wrote that he “would
term such branches fives' "fts after
separation reunite anastomosing branches,
or, if a word might be coined, ana-
branches.” The islands thus formed by
the anabranches he called “branch
islands.” His successor in the chair,
ignorant of Colonel Jackson’s meaning,
raised a laugh in the colony when, com-
menting on Sturt’s exploration of the
interior, he mentioned that the explorer
“proposed sending in advance to ascertain
the state of thQ Ana branch of the
Darling, discovered by Mr. Eyre on a
recent expedition to the north.”
He * * *
“S.E.”: If a bird census could be
taken, wouldn’t we find that the number
of smaller birds were dropping off badly?
Not sparrows —those blighters never get
any fewer —but my childhood recollec-
tions include lots more diamond-birds,
df
“’Op it —you ain't members of our union!”
honeyeaters, coachwhips, etc., than one
encounters nowadays. The country, I re-
member, was liberally sprinkled with
bright little robins of various colors, but
now even a trip into the bush reveals few
of the colored midgets. Mentioned the
matter to several other old-timers who
live in different parts, and all agree that
the smaller birds, like the more harm-
less animals, are dwindling and their
places taken by increasing crows, rabbits,
foxes, snails, politicians and insects. Ex-
cepting night-birds—and, of course,
Willy-the-wag, who sits up all night
flattering himself- —what is the last bird
to bed? My shirt goes on the magpie.
I’ve seen the black-and-white bloke sneak-
ing off home so long after dark he was
hard to identify, yet as a rule mag. beats
the jackasses awake in the mornings.
* * * *
“Chuck” : Funny the tucker different
blokes take on a week’s camping job.
For many years Dingo Ted’s ration has
been a shoulder of mutton, cooked be-
fore starting out, while the Cullen boys
reckon a bloke’s mad trying to keep the
flies off fresh meat in the bush. They
invariably chuck a few tins of bully in
the sugarbag and top it with a loaf or
two of bread. Old Bob sat on the veranda
the other night watching the young
forestry cove pack his feed. Into the
boxes went tea, coffee, sugar, condensed-
milk, fresh and tinned meat, bread, jam,
butter, honey, a bag of biscuits and a
slab of cake. ‘ 4 Y’ goin’ on a picnic or
somethin’?” Bob inquired mildly. “How
many of y’?” “I’m going on my own,”
snapped the youth, scowling. “And be-
lieve me, a week on Feathertop fire-
spotting is no picnic.” Bob gaped at the
two tucker-boxes. “How y’ goin’ t’
get all that grub up there?” he
ventured presently. “Garage truck
most of the way,” was the reply,
“Then I’ll have to make a couple
oFtrips myself, blast it, with a horse
and pack ’em in.” Bob shook his
head wonderingly and said nothing.
With a package of tea shoved in
one coat pocket, a handful of cart-
ridges in another and a butt of flour tied
on the saddle Bob had always been ready
for the bush trip, and, according to him-,
self, had “al’us lived pretty well, too.”
* * * *
“Bughouse”: The real point of my
geological par missed by “J.A.H.” (B.
28/12/’49) and othqrs is this: that life
on this globe has been repeatedly de-
stroyed by earth-convulsions due to the
shrinking of the outer crust, ’quakes so
terrific that the seas leaped from their
beds to overflow the land while the land
broke and heaped so as to form the
present mountain-chains. In our present
age this outer crust is estimated as being
about 40 miles thick; fairly solid, but
thin compared with the more than 7000
miles of molten matter that lies within.
Thus there is no certainty that this
present crust will not one day break of
its own weight, producing a cataclysm
that will destroy man and his works
within an hour —that is, if man is still
on the scene.
* * * ♦
“Colonial Cove”: That Service Depart-
ment par. on lampblack (B. 14/12/’49)
recalls stringent times in the early Swan
River settlement. Founded in June, 1829,
the settlement achieved to a permanent
weekly newspaper by January, 1833 •
the “Perth Gazette,” now the “West Aus-
tralian.” But as the ’thirties passed, with
ship arrivals averaging one in six months,
newsprint became a problem: printing-
ink even more so. The “Gazette” often
appeared on strong wrapping-paper. For
ink it was discovered that trunks of the
native blackboy ( Xanthorrhoea ) burned
with a dense sooty flame, yielding a fine
lampblack, readily condensed on a sheet
of iron. For a carrying medium mutton-
tallow was used, obtainable in compara-
tive plenty from the shipments of scab-
infected sheep from Van Diemen’s Land.
With this home-made ink the “Gazette”
was printed for years, the type taking a
jet-black impression which, even after the
lapse of more than a century, still gives
the easiest of reading.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: For many years I’ve loved
a pretty spot on the South Coast
(N.S.W.); a haven of picturesquely-dis-
torted trees, rolling sand-dunes, grassy
slopes and glorious vista of sea and surf.
Even when the holiday campers dis-
covered ft the customary canvas-slum
appearance was absent —the natural scrub
and profusion of thick-girthed trees pre-
vented that. Visiting the spot yet again,
I was strolling down the track, enjoying
the sight of the arching foliage overhead,
noting the “sign” on a wild-apple where
df
"He likes to catch his own breakfast."
a possum had run up the trunk, and
generally feeling at peace with the uni-
verse when an incredible vision stopped
me dead. Across the clearing a column
of men, women and children was march-
ing—yes, marching! Moreover, some of
the marchers carried banners. The word-
ing came into view. And then I under-
stood —the serpents had come to the
Garden of Eden. Some of the marchers
were singing; a song that matched the
banners with its arrogance, class-hatred
and stressing of the word “fight,” while
viciously and .hypocritically denouncing
“warmongers.” In spite of the per-
centage of middle-aged men in the mob
this, it seemed, was a Commo “Youth”
camp. As the disrupters marched down
to the beach with the intention of warp-
ing healthy minds and bodies from the
carefree enjoyment of glorious, clean
surf (and subsequently failing dismally)
a kookaburra suddenly burst into loud,
rolling laughter. I’d have joined in with
the loyal old patriot, but I didn’t feel
like laughing ; I was thinking of the poor,
innocent kids in that mob—brought Up
to that!
* * * *
“Ware”: The success of G. J. Mans-
field’s fumigating of storage-sheds in Vic-
toria over the past three years gives
promise that at last something is here to
administer a crushing blow to that
supreme pest the weevil. With a world
short of food a fumigation-plant such as
this, that will destroy the vermin without
affecting the goods, is a real lifesaver.
Annually our losses from rodents, weevils
and moth run into very high figures.
Although Mansfield’s insecticide has a
kerosene base it is non-inflammable. The
vapor given off is so fine that it is “dry,”
and this dope can be used effectively on
all kinds of foods, cheese and confec-
tionery included ; even tobacco has had
its share. Mansfield has adapted his
machine to germicides, and has been at
work ridding Melbourne theatres and
offices of their wogs. Insect-pests in
orchards are the inventor’s next objective.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”) There is one
highway left in western Victoria that’s
still real Australia, and that’s the road
from Casterton to Penola, just across the
Victorian border in South Australia.
Driving through the yacca and redgum
flats there recently we put up emus, wal-
labies and a grey wombat; we saw black
cockatoos—the yellow-tailed blokes —and
white cockatoos, while red lories, rosellas
and ground parrots escorted us the whole
way. And unlike highways in the
Cabbage Garden, live —not dead, but
very-much-alive—maggies lined the road-
way.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver had just got
the mob settled in a wide clover gully
outside town when a sad-looking cove
rode up and explained that he couldn t
leave cattle there. “Why can’t I?”
snorted the old bloke. “It ain’t fenced.”
“No, but I’m taking out a lease,” ex-
plained the sad one, “and I don’t want
that gully eaten out. You’ll have to shift
’em.” The argument lasted some time,
then Seventyfiver sought the publican.
“Don’t know,” answered that gent., “but
old Fifty-percent, will tell you. His office
is three doors up.” Seventyfiver trans-
ferred himself. “Now exactly which piece
of land is it?” queried the man of
knowledge. “Right. I’ll find out how
it stands.” He turned the pages of some
books, used the phone and dug into a
heap of files. Eventually he informed
Seventyfiver of the position and soothed
his doubts. “And that,” he added, “will
cost you ten and sixpence.” The old
bloke hesitated and dug up the money.
They strolled to the door and the towns-
man glanced out. “Going to rain? ’he
queried idly. “Wa-al now,” Seventyfiver
ran an experienced eye round the hori-
zon, ‘lt won’t rain before dark. But 1
been watchin’ the signs lately—things
you wouldn’t know nothny about an y
c’n take it from me we’re in f’r a shower
inside twenty-four hours. An he
added blandly, as the other turned, will
cost y’ jus’ ten bob an a zac.
BANNERS IN THE WIND.
The wind goes racing,
Chasing
Cloud-shadows over long grasses,
Bending the poplars as it passes.
Lambs wake from sleep, tails swinging,
Against the wind they match their springing.
Calves jump, stiff-legged, with lowered heads
Butting the wind, behind the milking-sheds;
Staid draught-horses, mane and tail flying,
Away they race, making pretence of shying.
Children start running without knowing why,
Shouting and laughing at the unmoved sky.
The wind comes sighing,
Dying—
Losing its joy in sudden slowing,
Almost forgetting where It was going.
Lambs run to suck at patient mothers,
Calves turn to butting at their brothers,
Horses stop galloping and stoop to eat,
Whisking slow tails, sweating in the heat
From their crazy dash. Children stop and stare,.
Wondering what made them start, and where
They’d be if what had called them still
Called as insistently over tree and hill.
N.S.W.
N. L. RAY.


“B. A. Ker”; Many years ago an
Afghan hawker used to “do” our district;
the township grew, a small drapery-shop
was built and his visits ceased. But once
a year the “Dutch-auction” man arrived.
It was as big an event as a circus. He
booked the School of Arts for Friday
night and unloaded his groaning lorry.
To a packed house he always opened
with “Ladies and gentlemen; you under-
stand that this is not an auction sale —
the law will not allow goods to be
auctioned after sunset. I merely offer you
goods at a certain price; if the price
suits you you buy; if not you wait until
I bring the price down to your pocket.”
Then the sale began. He had everything :
scissors to singlets ; cutlery to cowbells.
Many of the lines could have been
bought at the store, but it wasn’t the
same fun. To a barrage of humorous
patter articles were offered—and reduced ;
sixpence after sixpence would come off
the price. At the sixth reduction goods
seemed to be going at ridiculous prices.
It was then the seller reached for a long,
flat piece of packing-case. “Well, they’ve
got to be sold,” he would proclaim.
Bang! Down would come the piece of
wood on an empty box. “Worth ten
bob, but I’ll sell for seven and six.”
Bang! “Seven bob.” Bang! “Six and
six.” Bang! Bang! Bang! “Right;
one for this lady; and that lady there;
and this 1ady....” He comes no more ;
but I remember the wisdom he confided
to me: “Put five bob on the price then,
bit by bit, knock four off. When you’re
getting as low as you’ll go belt that box
—hard. It gets ’em on edge. They sit
there ready to jump when you bang it
again. They watch you lift the stick.
Bang! It nearly jumps ’em out of their
seats. That’s when they buy—it’s their
subconscious minds stopping you from
banging that box again.” And to think
some people believe that psychology can
be taught only by professors.
* * * *
“Wonk”: “Yair, I’ve heard about that
spray that kills weeds an’ don’t hurt y’r
proper crop,” said Dad to the travelling
salesman. “But, cripes, how it knows gets
me. Y’ mean if I sprayed this ’ere pad-
dick, say, it’d kill all them stragglin’
blackberry seedlin’s that’s come up an’
it wouldn’t hurt me crop o’ rye? Aw-
right, that’ll do me. It’ll be cheaper
than wages.” Dad put in a big order.
Two days after the consignment arrived
the sales bloke called back. “Well, I’ve
done it,” Dad informed him gleefully.
“An’ I sacked young Charlie f’r bein’
such a flamin’ wet blanket. Not that this
place’ll need him no more after this, any-
way. Y’ see, I’ve sprayed me paddick o’
rye t’ kill off them blackberries that
come up ; then in me patch o’ black-
berries that I’m growin’ f’r the jam fac-
t’ry there’s a whole lot o’ rye an’ lucerne,
so I give that a good soakin’ t’ get rid o ?
them. For me-big lucerne paddick I ’ad
t’ borrer the bushfire-truck so’s I c’d spray
it prop’ly to clean out the rye an’ other
grass from in there, an’ I’ve give Mum’s
flowers an’ veg’tables a darned good
once-over. Gripes, y’ll never b’lieve the
diff’rence this ’ere spray’s gonna make
to this place.” Nor did the salesman wait
to find out.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: “Down in the. forest
something stirred” —the forest being gum-
suckers in the Ninety-mile bend on the
Murray and the something being Jimmy
Gallagher, fisherman, boat-builder and
trapper, as we discovered when we pene-
trated the thicket. James was squatted
on the ground, with a shotgun and a
large alarm-clock beside him, in a posi-
tion that showed him the upper reach
of the Tapalin bend through a narrow
aisle in the suckers. “It’s that Tom the
Liar,” he explained. “OF blankard is
set on makin’ spinners out o’ clocks.
Offered me up t’ thirty-bob for this one ;
an’ I see ’im eyein’ it off. Reckon he’s
goin’ through me hut now, huntin’ for it.
Soon’s I see his boat I’ll know he’s had a
look an’ give up.” “Gripes,” we said.
“We didn’t reckon Tom was a thief.”
“Aw, he ain’t. If he’d got the clock he’d
“I know you're the truant-inspector—but you don't know who I am.”
left thirty-bob on the table. That’s the
way he got me dorg, an’ me best drum-
net, and them two gramophone records
I lorst, an’ he nilly got me tin-whistle the
same way. Well, y’ see, I worked it
out that every time he got somethin’
he’d want somethin’ else, so all I got t’
do is keep the clock away from him an’
I don’t lose anything else. See?” To
the best of our knowledge Jimmy kept
Tom off his clock for the next five or
six years. Which is why he is remem-
bered now, not as Gallagher, but as
“Jimmy O’clock.”
* * * *
“Bo”: I’ve seen it rain pretty hard in
me time,” said Fatty the Fencer, “but
never as solid as one time up on the
Bellinger. I’d sunk twenty-two holes
for a line o’ fencin’, twelve foot apart, a
bit up from on the edge of a gully, an’
I’m sweatin’ on the cocky deliverin’ the
posts when a thunderstorm comes up. In
no time that gully’s a roarin’ torrent an’
I gotta bolt to safety. That there rain
didn’t come dowfi in buckets, it come
down in reservoirs. Gripes, after it’s over
I goes back an’ finds the whole seventeen
of ’em silted up, an’ I gotta start all over
again.” “But I thought you said you had
dug twenty-two?” I put in. “I had,”
replied Fatty, “but y’ see, the other five
was washed clean away—they found ’em
a coupler days later in old Thurgood’s
property on the other side o’ the creek!”
* * * *
“Graemac”: Was telling a bloke in
town about bag-sewing on the Downs.
He seemed very impressed when I told
him that they paid 255. a hundred, and
that I sewed over 450 a day. “Oh, I
suppose that’s possible,” he said. “Of
course, you have all your needles threaded
before you start?”
* * * *
“Flinders Range”; The social effects of
the shorter working week can be studied
at leisure in this part of northern S.A.
Following late winter- and spring-rains
we had feed to burn, and the seed crop
is immense, especially where saffron-
thistle has occupied the flats. As a con-
sequence the Seed-nickers’ Union (Galah
branch) is working short hours, either
to avoid income tax or because “y’ can’t
take it with you.” All hands, then, turn
out and work for an hour or so in the
morning, have a day-long smoke-oh until
just before bed-time, and then, lacking
wireless and “the pitchers,” go to roost.
The long leisurely day has to be Spent
somehow, and, among other inimical prac-
tices, crooning has become popular.
Anyone who has been subjected to the
non-stop crooning of 20 to 30 adolescent
galahs, eight hours a day for weeks, will
understand why my hands twitch when-
ever a shotgun is mentioned. Spectator
sports, too, are booming. The audience
crowds the ridge-capping while the teams
try such feathery-chested diversions as
slide-down-the-iron, nail-pulling and wire-
cutting. Then again there is a sharp
rise in larrikinism. My wireless aerial
has been denuded of all insulation, and
the wire has more bristles than a pro-
cessional caterpillar where the strands
have been unravelled. Finally, it is un-
deniable that young birds only recently
enlisted in the union are assuming a
redder tinge. If I could concentrate long
enough I’d write to Bob Menzies about
it.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: The simple savage of
the Torres Straits Islands is not ignorant
of the strike weapon. Once on an iso-
lated trading station I struck a sit-down
effort, the natives refusing to unload a
cargo of six tons of flour which was on
an exposed jetty with a nor’-west rain-
squall threatening. As directions, dictated
by reasons of policy from the south, for-
bade me to address either request or
order, I affected supreme unconcern as to
the fate of the flour, an attitude which
nonplussed the strikers as they shot
anxious glances at the “kai-kai” and the
impending storm. At last the prospect
of six tons of good tucker being spoiled
proved too much for them ; crew-boys,
storehands and cargo-lumpers descended
on the stack and removed it to shelter
in record time. Then they enthusiastically
resumed their sit-down strategy.
* * * *
“Rooster”: The “dummy eyes”
of vertebrates, insects and even
caterpillars appear to be always
placed as though with definite intent.
Various devices for camouflage of
the eye are shown by animals
with cryptic coloring; others sport this
bull’s-eye effect as a means of deflecting
attack. The Argus pheasant displays
“false eyes” on its feathers, and they
occur on the scales of lizards, snakes and
tropical fishes. The idea seems to be
protection of vulnerable parts, if not com-
plete scaring-away of potential enemies.
The eyed hawk-moth {Smerinthus ocel-
latus) will, when in danger while resting,
raise its forewings and display on its
hind-wings a pair of lifelike, large round
eyes. Several species of butterfly possess
eye-spots in various positions on the
wings, but always well away from the
body. Near such markings the wings
quite commonly show damage caused
by the beak of an attacking bird.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: She pulled me up in the
main street. “Mr. T., you know a bit
about these things. I don’t know what’s
gone wrong with my potatoes.” I made
mental preparation to diagnose eelworm
or scab, grub or blight, and asked her
what was the trouble. “Well,” she said,
“the young potatoes are coming under-
neath all right, but they’re growing
tomatoes on top!” Spuds don’t make
many seeds, but if it had occurred to her
to compare a ’tater-flower with one from
a tomato the marked similarity would
have explained what followed.
* * * *
“Hanko”; Snowflake and Little Joe
were mounted and strung with kero.-tins,
chaff-bags and axes when the overseer
sauntered to the horseyard. “Goin’ tin-
kettlin’?” he asked unpleasantly. “No,”
Snowflake gabbled excitedly. “We’re
gonna rob a bees’-nest,” “Yair?” the
overseer said. “But you’re not takin’
station horses. Bees git nasty when they
lose honey.” “Arr,” Little Joe snorted.
“Y’ don’t expect a bloke to walk nilly
half a mile, do y’?” “Well,” the over-
seer drawled, “you could run, then y’
might git there before y’ got too tired.”
Little Joe swung out of the saddle. “Be-
fore I walk nilly a quarter of a blasted
mile,” he yelled, “I’ll starve t’ death on
golden-flamin’-syrup.”
* * * *
“C.E.”: He was alone on the pub
veranda the morning of the country race-
meeting when old Harry spotted him
and sidled up* “Nice-lookin’ animals y’
got out there,” Harry remarked. “Bet
there ain’t nothin’ locally that’ll beat
’em.” The big bloke glanced round in-
differently, then turned a shoulder,
“Take that grey,” Harry persisted. “Y’ve
got her entered in the big event I notice.”
The bloke moved to the edge of the
veranda and looked at the sky. “Do y’
reckon she’ll win it?” asked Harry, fol-
lowing him, “ ’Course the trouble is”
The racing man strolled into the bar and
called for a drink. Harry ranged along-
side and called for another. “The
trouble is, y’ve got two in the same race,”
he opened up again. The bloke pointedly
turned his back. “They can’t both win.
You ought t’ know which is the fastest
and”— — The bloke left the bar, disap-
peared into a side door, slammed it and
audibly turned the key. Harry paused a
minute, then knocked. At his third knock
there came a growl from within. “Are
you going to get out,” it said, “or am I
going to come and kick you into the
horse-trough?” “Well, o’ course I c’n
take a hint as well as the next man,”
announced Harry, relating the incident
later, “but I been wonderin’ since if he
knew it was me. Might ’ave thought it
was just some nuisance come round t’
pester *im like.”
SKYLINE.
I sometimes pause for a groundling’s stare
At statues that edge the sky:
President Roosevelt in Grosvenor Square;
Nelson erect on high;
Anonymous Frederick, Duke of York,
With his brazen vision bent
On Horse Guards’ dial, and Birdcage Walk,
And the Houses of Parliament.
Yes, here is History; here is Fame!
When the bombs came shrieking down,
We saw that Sailor and Duke were game—•
They sentinelled London Town!
But I remember an Austral scene,
Ere ever I saw St. Paul’s,
Of the Otway Ranges’ ultramarine
And the silver of Erskine Falls;
The staghorn ferns and the maidenhair
And the blossoms beyond our reach
That sifted down through the sunlit air
From the boughs of a self-sown peach;
And a girl to whom in my heart I knelt
(She had tender eyes, like Leah),
In a shady hat and a shiny belt
And a blue-striped galatea.
Her eyes said “Yes,” hut her lips said “If , . .”
And the breezes ruffled her hair
As she left my side and she climbed the cliff
And blew me a kiss from there.
A statue of pose and poise was she,
A nymph on a pedestal—
A figure of perfect poetry
At the crest of a waterfall.
ENGLAND.
GUY INNES.
RADIO ROUSEABOUT
. A 8.8.8. (big
business buster)
asked me to go
along to his place
the other night where
quite a few of his
friends were fore-
gathering to celebrate the turn of the year, and
having snatched my hat and my wife from me,
ushered me to the scene of activities and
promptly asked “What’ll you have?” I found
myself standing in front of a most elaborate
contraption of veneers, doors, handles, lids,
mirrors and whatnots, where I observed a pile
of records spinning gaily, and emanating from
which came the raucous voice of some dame
telling us of a first-class bit of bother between
Frankie and Johnnie. I yelled feebly that I
preferred Scotch, with plenty of soda and much
ice, but nevertheless a bottle was whisked from
the innards of the veneer gadget, the top
nimbly removed by inserting it in some con-
cealed orifice, and a warm beer thrust into
my hand. And so it went as each guest
arrived. After some hour or so of this shambles
of sound I began to take stock of the situa-
tion, which in this instance Was brought about
by the miracle of electronics, allied with what
our host called his super-duper cocktail cabinet,
which he obviously refused to leave for one
moment throughout the whole of the evening.
Glasses and bottles cluttered the instrument,
mingling with ashtrays, albums and a pile of
records just taken off the automatic player.
For eighty per cent, of the time we had a
glorious view of our host’s broad back while
he peered into cupboards, pulled out bottles,
snapped off tops, pulled and pushed corks,
sorted out records and manipulated
amid the growing din as his guests stepped up
their voices in an effort to overcome the output
of a 12-in. speaker buried somewhere in this
extraordinary set-up. As one of the “early-ins”
in the business of wireless I felt somewhat
responsible for all this, and jostling my way out
to a cool, quiet spot on the lawn, paused to
reflect. There was no doubt that my host was,
unfortunately, an exhibitionist, and to further
his end as such had specially ordered this
contraption to be built to his own design,
regardless of expense (and, might I say, his
guests), hoping we would remark “Aren’t you
a clever fellow inventing all this. We haven’t
got anything like it in our home” —and so on.
And I personally witnessed many of these
obviously spurious bouquets being handed to
him No, no, it was never meant that way.
Best manufacturers of world fame aim at
producing a combined radio and gramophone
of acceptable dimensions, appearance and
design that will give efficient local or overseas
reception and play records either singly or
automatically in chosen groups to appreciative
audiences at reasonable volume. But they
deprecate any attempts, which are often made,
to combine such an exquisite instrument with
the pub or the laundry. Releasing shortly,
the new Mullard Duo-Player Grand is indeed
a superb instrument, with dignity and amazing
performance whether on radio or gramophone
reception. But should anybody fumble around
seeking a tap or gadget “what opens beer-
bottles,” I am afraid they are going to be sadly
disappointed. [Advt.


June,
Net
rrnflt.*
Dividends.
6 p.e.
To Re-
serves.
Reserves.
j: at*.
. 121,129
A 6t*.
X rtg.
X St*.
1042.
116,376
4,7 46
8,044,461
1043.
. 134.356
120.038
13,413
8,667,869
1944.
. 135,444
120,937
17,607
3.075.S7O
W46.
, 140,419
122,250
18,100
3,698,646
Currency-adjustment reserve dls-
2,108,645
appeals, £1,585,000
■.
1946.
. 165,826
9.10 p.c.
151,260
4,076
2,112,02!
1047.
. 190,820
10 p-c.
165,000
26,920
2,188,451
1949.
. 200,732
165,000
85,782
2.174.273
1949.
. 202,01)5
166,000
S7.065
■
Income—•
1048,
1349.
Orcw
£ 2,174,749
Outgo—
Management, etc.
.. 1,20$,706
1,444,47$
Taxation ..
613,93(1
492,811
Staff fund .,
30,000
36,000
£1,707,702
£1,971,784
Profit
200,782
202,065
1039.
1948.
1949.
Puid capital ..
£3,009,900 & 8,000,000 £ 3,000,01)0
Perpetual stock..
3,872,96(1
—
Deposit*, etc. ..
34,942,470
31,159,029
90,978.131*
Or tier banka, etc.
1,074,853
845,218
968,370
Mote* ,. ,.
1,008
790
706
Tax reserve
—
629,256
439.019
Liquids ..
14,001.901
44,989,9784 52,5S5,2804
Advances ,.
30,ass,041
44,969,626
60,384,180
Premises
718,264
789,696
819,068
Subsidiary co, ,.
—
117,774
114,675
Other accounts. .
—
49,505
64,806
Henry Jones and Scbkidjakies.
To He*
Oct.,
Profit.
Dividends.
Reserves, serves.*
£
£
£ £
1041..
288,108
10
p.e. = 143,017
145,391 1,630,110
Reduced intangibles, £31
.. 1.630,160
1042..
258,486
10
pic. = 143,017
110,448 1,045,598
1943..
270.880
10
„ ,. 143.017
180.883 1,782,401
1044...
237,180
10
„ „ 143,017
94,163 1.878,02 4
1945...
330, 575
10
„ „ 144,742
186,833 2,062,457
1940.
215,062
ID
„ 145,317
70,036 2,138,092
1047.
327,888
10
„ „ 146,317
182,560 2,313,00 (
1048..
888,63d
10
„ 16(1,000
183.6S6 2,490,197
1040.
320,209
10
., 150.000
170,5: till 2,078,490
Btwjiv Jonhs and Sobswiabibs.
10(7.
1948.
10(0.
Paid capital
£1,458,178 £1,600,000 £1,500,000
Outside inter'?*!**
71.344
75,010
72.6011
Creditors, rtc,
064,104
856,491
884,48$
Tax reserve, rtc ,
422,363
416,007
507,01*0
Freeholds, etc. ..
970,172
1,041,088
1,006,624
Plant, etc. ,.
514,003
G 15.978
526,508
Stories
1,622,083
1,060,27S
1,807,936
Debtor* .. ..
1,229,632
1,21*1,800
1,458,177
Shares ,.
123,555
126,224
183.604
Cinrti, etc...
665,100
417,126
098.850
Suspense acCOUntr..
9.8IS
5,667
20,076
Goodwill, etc.
50,085
51,464
51,401
Net
To
Nominal
Sept.,
Profit.
Dividend*. Bwnfs. n«serveo.t
£
£
£
£
1340..
32,483
10 p.c.=
22,1H«
10,273
17S,058
1041..
23,303
10 „ ..
22,183
1,115
3.79,173
1042..
20,976
10 M
23,183
4,787
183,960
1048..
28,046
10 „ „
22,136
6,858
189,818
1044-.
81,480
124..
27,735
3.745
193,563
194S..
11.488
10 „ „
22,188
i—
182,813
1 '10. .
86,604
10
22,188
18,500
196,319
194V..
20,724
10 „
28,188
—
194,855
Share premiums, £38,68*
821,390
104*..
38,00ft
12*p.c.=
28.501
9,504
220.81X
1949..
34,663
>2.-1 „
91),306
4,267
225.160
1946.
1947.
1948.
1049.
raid capital.
. £221,884 £221.684 £240,299 £243,031
Sundry creditors 37,825
31.875
63,180
114,351
Tux metre.
. 10,500
12.000
30,000
21,000
Properties* .
. 212,402
218, SS9
218 222
240,681
Plant, etc.* .
. 194,455
209,28*
220|l04
25H.8S7
Stocks
. 130,538
121,117
151,355
107.260
Debtors
50,096
01,203
112,678
70,060
Clash, etc. .
Trade-marks,
29,053
0,318
70,197
0,663
etc,
72.500
72,500
72,500
72,500
Sept..
Oro!s
Exes.
PC.
Trusts.
Income.
Kxi'h.
I neomi-.
i i»sr#..
£ 12.110,390
£31,390
£38.926
75.7
p.c-
lcun..
12.253,44!)
fi2,at>A
88.968
74.4
1t)48..
13.125.101
54.162
43,380
70.0
IT
J944v.
JS,8!i«.o0n
64,813
44.050
80.3
iuia..
14,107,451
67,543
40.197
70.8
1040..
14,179,683
60.880
55,322
K2.7
!»
1947..
14.4U4.954
73,858
61.608
63.8
If
1048..
14,784,082
82,810
6S.81-S
S3,l
1940. .
15.031,660
37,017
73,244
84.2
II 1
Total .. £223,210 £312,431 £328,868 £357,074
The slip of £34,884 in Australian profit
was due to reduced output of jams (down
The WILDCAT COLUMN
E., S. and A. Bank
Impatient at the Socialists’ devotion to
nationalisation, despite legal obstructions,
and at Ministerial high-handedness and
other things, the people threw Labor out
of office in December last and returned
to power the Liberal-Country party,
which is pledged to let up on controls
and restrictions and to create a freer way
of life than was possible under the rules,
regulations and permits with which the
Chifley Government had shackled enter-
prise.
And the new Government has lost
no time in getting down to business.
Capital-issues control is the first of
the financial shackles to be thrown over-
board. Later it is intended to (1) ask the
people to amend the Constitution so that
no undertaking can be grabbed by the
State without a referendum, (2) to take
control of the Commonwealth Bank out
of the hands of one politician (the
Federal Treasurer) and place it in those
of a small board of directors, and (3)
make fair competition the keynote of
that privileged institution’s trading acti-
vities.
The measure of comfort drawn by in-
vestors from all this has been expressed
by an all-round advance in share prices,
bank scrip leading the way. The E. S.
and A.’s £5 shares paid to £3, which sold
at £6 15s. 6d. at end Nov., advanced to
£7 11s. 6d. on Dec. 21, and eased to
£7 6s. last week. English income tax of
9s. in the £ reduces the co.’s declared
10 p.c. div. to 5.5 p.c. (stg.), equal to
6.9 p.c. in Australian currency at the
current rate of exchange. The return at
£7 6s. is 2.8 p.c. on a 6.9 p.c, div. basis,
subject to adjustment in connection with
double taxation. Visibly the cover is
£5 4s. 3d. in net tangibles.
Last term the co. helped finance a
bigger volume of internal and external
trade, which sent gross earnings up by
£216,315. But the gain was more than
gobbled by the extra cost of handling the
business (up £235,707): —•
It was a saving of £21,625 in allowance
for taxation (on Australian account) that
put the profit figure up by £2233, making
it £202,695, equal to 6.7 p.c. on capital,
or 3.9 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined).
Since the close of accounts seasonal
conditions have continued favorable and
trade buoyant, while the September cur-
rency devaluations gave prices, especially
for wool, an inflationary fillip. Banking
profits, however, depend mainly upon
how the wide powers vested in the Gov-
ernment and central bank under the 1945
Banking Act are used. At present the
volume and direction of private-bank
lending is limited and controlled by the
“special-account” system and central-
bank directives, under which the
maximum charge for advances has been
kept at 4j p.c. since the beginning of
1947. Chief struggle is, therefore, one
between the gains from permitted ex-
pansion of lending and the rise in costs.
The declared aim of central-bank policy
is to restrict inflationary pressures by dis-
couraging the use of bank accommoda-
tion as a substitute for raising share or
debenture capital, which is orthodox
banking practice. The trouble is that
there is more legitimate business to be
done within the limits of approved policy
than is officially permitted. Yet to finance
this business the trading banks are not
allowed to draw upon their “special
account” with the Commonwealth, which
earns | p.c. interest, but are obliged to
accept deposits from that institution at
3i p.c.—maximum rate paid to the public
for 24-month deposits is \\ p.c. on the
first £10,000 and 1 p.c. on the balance.
At June 30 last the E., S. and A. held
£17,928,287 (up £2,111,554) on deposit
from the Commonwealth Bank, and had
lodged with it on special account
£30,794,422 (up £3,625,498). In interest
on these two accounts alone the co, would
thus make a net payment of £473,518 to
the central bank. The effect upon earn-
ings is obvious.
Major balance-sheet movements were a
growth of £12,819,102 in deposits, etc. —
mainly the result of heavy additions to
our overseas funds — expansion of
£5,414,555 in advances and addition of
£7,545,307 to liquids: —
The position is one of exceptional
strength. Only 51.9 p.c. of deposits was
employed in assisting trade and industry
as against 87.3 p.c. in 1939, and liquids
amounted to 53.3 p.c. of liabilities to the
public, including tax reserves. A con-
tingent liability of £13,615,000 in respect
of forward exchange, etc., is indicative
of growing nervousness concerning pos-
sible appreciation of the Australian
pound. However, when a bank sell for-
ward it usually covers most of the risk
by buying forward or spot.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
By abolishing capital-issues control the
new Menzies Government has lost no time
in divorcing co. finance from party
politics. First introduced as an emer-
gency war-time measure, this control
ceased to serve any worth-while financial,
economic or social purpose of recent
years. It gave the Treasury, not boards
of directors and their skilled advisers,
power to decide whether new capital in
excess of £25,000 in any one year was
to be inlstfbduced into a business, and
upon what conditions —these usually in-
cluded the charging of a stiff premium.
Over the last couple of years H.J. Co-op.
had been repeatedly refused permission
to make a new share-issue to help finance
erection of a jam factory at Welshpool
(W.A.) and provide for further expansion
of the group of subsidiaries, which operate *
17 major jam-making and fruit-canning
plants and a number of auxiliaries in
Australia, New Zealand and South Africa.
Now that this socialistic piece of dis-
crimination against shareholders and
private enterprise is out of the way, the
co. proposes to presently offer those on
the register 300,000 new £1 shares, one
for five, at par. That will raise paid
capital to £1,800,000, and will be in the
nature of a bonus to shareholders because
of the high price the scrip commands
in the market. The figure advanced from
72s, before the elections to 78s. last
week. After exercising the rights, the
net price to the investor at 78s. would be
68s. 9d., giving a return of 2,9 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis.
Obviously the market is prepared to
wait for further benefits. The return
would be 3.5 p.c. on a p.c. distribu-
tion, which would call for £225,000 p.a.
on £1,800,000 of capital, and only once
since 1939 —when combined net earnings
of the group were first published—has
less profit than that been shown. In its
first 20 years after formation in 1909,
the co. paid divs. averaging 10.8 p.c,,
sweetened with £455,492 of bonus scrip
in 1927, followed by an average of 7.5
p.c. for the next half-dozen slump years,
and then an average of 10 p.c. for the
14 years to the close of last accounts.
Visible * reserves had then mounted to
£2,678,496 in excess of intangibles, and
the inner strength is known to be sub-
stantial.
Last term net earnings were £28,206
stronger at £357,074 (23.8 p.c. on capital),
thanks to a lift of £63,090 in ex-Aus-
tralian net income: —
Net income— 1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Australian .. £137,425 £164,524 £233,270 £198,386
Other sources 85,785 147,907 95,598 158,688
64 million pounds for all producers in
the Commonwealth) and spiralling costs.
The demand for canned fruits exceeded
production capacity. Profit in the intro-
ductory table takes into account unex-
plained movements in reserves (down
£27,775 last term). The £329,299 of
profit thus shown was 21.9 p.c. on capital
as against 22.2, 22.5, 14.8 and 22.7 p.c.
back to 1945.
The co. buys the bulk of its fruit during
a period of a couple of months, when
most of the stock for the year is manu-
factured. This also calls for large ex-
penditure in connection with sugar, tin-
plate and wages. Hence the need for a
substantial holding of cash, etc., up
£281,722 last term:
The reduction of £152,287 in stocks and
growth of £161,317 in debtors’ balances
are healthy movements. The year’s im-
provement in the more-or-less liquid sur-
plus (£2,641,724) was £112,024.
Clifford Love and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
The scrip of this dry-goods business,
which turns out some well-established
proprietary lines, ranks among the sound
industrial equities, with long-term possi-
bilities. Ever since the public became
interested, about 28 years ago shareholders
have had a steady 10 p.c., with a 2i p.c.
bonus added during the half-dozen fat
years to 1930 and in 1944 and again dur-
ing the last two years. Also a number of
new share issues has increased the average
return and aggregate capital value of
holdings of old shareholders who have
exercised their rights and retained the
scrip, though share premiums, fixed by
capital - control authorities since war
began, have taken some of the icing off
the cake.
The last issue was 22,047 new £1 ords.
at a premium of 15s. each in Nov., 1947,
This money, and a lot more besides, went
mainly into property, plant and stocks: —
To meet last term’s additions of £31,339
to property, £36,673 to plant, and £45,901
to stocks the co. went to its bankers and
others for £51;171 net, and drew upon
cash, etc., for £65,644. The contraction
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£141,514) was £54,534.
Post-war growth of the business has
been marked, because of the war-time
lag in plant and other development that
had to be overtaken. However, with the
growth of population, hastened by immi-
gration, continued and steady expansion
of the undertaking is more or less assured.
And this class of business usually holds
well in lean times.
The collapse of earnings in 1945 fol-
lowed failure of the oats and maize crops
in N. S. Wales, and drought again affected
the 1947 figures. During the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts nature was
kind, but output was restricted by short-
ages of transport, power and fuel, due to
the evergreen coal problem, aggravated
by the mischievous miners’ strike during
the last half of the term. And this was
accompanied by an all-round and steep
increase in production costs. The shrink-
age in net earnings was £3342, leaving the
figure at £34,663, or 14.2 p.c, on average
capital as against 16.6, 9.3, 16.1, 5.4 and
14.1 p.c. back to 1944.
Subject to what happens on the indus-
trial front and in connection with the ugly
costs spiral, prospects of a better show-
ing at next balance look bright enough.
The market therefore prices the f.-p.
pound shares at 65s. (61s. a year ago),
giving an immediate return of 3.8 p.c. on
a \1\ p.c. div. basis. Excluding the
reserve for depreciation, etc. (£239,119),
some of which might be genuine profit,
the coyer is 38s. 6d. in net tangibles.
Exec., Trustee and Agency Cos. (S.A.)
Sept., Profit. —Dividends
£ £ £
1941.. 11,667 10 p.c. = 10,000 )
Stafl fund, £650 .. .. V
To Re- Re-
serves. serves.
£ £
1017 121,696
1942.. 10,545 10 p.c. ~ 10,000“
To tax provision, £ 3993 .. •
Staff fund, £650
117,598
1943.. 10,872 10 p.c. = 10,000'
Stafl fund, £650 ~ .. j
222 117,820
1944.. 10,763 10 p.c. lO,OOO )
Staff fund, £650 ~ .. f
113 m,933
1945.. 11,646 10 p.c. lO,OOO )
Staff fund, £650 .. j
996 118,929
1946.. 11,564 10 p.c. = 10,000 )
Staff fund, £650 .. ~ f
914 119,843
1947.. 11,850 10 p.c. = 10,000 )
Staff fund, £650 .. .. )
1200 121,043
1948.. 13,992 10 p.c. = 10,000 )
' Stafl fund, £2OOO .. .. f
1992 123,035
1949.. 13,773 10 p.c. = 10,000 )
Staff fund, £llOs .. .. j
2668 125,703
Asa sound security with long-term
possibilities, the scrip in these trustee
cos. has much to recommend it. Of its
kind, this 79-year-old is the largest in
South Australia and second-oldest in the
Commonwealth. Paid capital, which was
doubled in 1925 and has remained steady
since, is £IOO,OOO in 400,000 £1 shares
paid to ss. each; and shareholders have
had an unbroken run of 10 p.c, divs. for
the last 15 years. There has been no
faulter in expansion of the business
during this period. But the gains there-
from since war began have, for the most
part, been gobbled by rapidly-rising
costs, due to inflation, controls, drop in
interest rates, high taxation and the
greatly increased work now associated
with the administration of estates.
Last'term a record £2,026,328 of new
business was entrusted to the co.’s ex-
pert care. This exceeded the book-value of
estates wound up, etc., by £346,883, leav-
ing trusts in hand that much greater at
£15,081,565. Gross earnings from all
sources—returns from the co.’s own funds
and from the trustee section of the busi-
ness aren’t separated in the. published
accounts—increased by £4207:
Excluding contributions to the staff
fund exes, made off with an extra 225.
p.c. of gross earnings, making the in-
crease £8 10s. p.c. since 1939. The net
result (down £219) was 13.7 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 13.9, 11.8 and 11.5 p.c. for
the three preceding terms. After allow-
ing for contributions to the staff fund
the amount available for distribution was
equal to 12.6 p.c. on capital compared
with 11.9, 11,2 and 10.8 p.c, back to
1946.
The capital and reserves, together with
£10,172 of current liabilities, were repre-
sented by freeholds, etc., £80,028, safe
deposit £24,897, Government securities
£105,372, mortgages £20,176 and debtors
and cash £9802.
At 13s, 3d. the scrip gives a return of
3.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis, or a shade
over 4 p.c. on an 11 p.c. distribution, pros-
pects of which depend upon how soon the
steep costs gradient flattens out. With
the recent change in Government, hopes
in this direction look brighter than at
any time during the last decade. The
business can be expected to keep on
expanding.
Mt. Isa, Ltd. (Q.)
Net • To Re- Re-
June, Profit.) / — 1 Dividend —> serves, serves.
’44.. 76,980 Nil 76,980 105,563
’45.. 126,236 Nil 126,236 231,799
’46.. 149,410 Nil 149,410 381,209
Share premiums, £139,338 .. .• 520,547
’47.. 502,585 10 p.c. = 194,206 308,379 828,926
’48.. 872,921 17 „ „ 755,779 117,142 946,068
’49. .1,457,337 25 „ ~ 1,157,652 299,685 1,245,753
) After deducting debenture interest and allowing
for depreciation.
It was the higher prices received for
metals, treatment of more and slightly
better-grade ore and a marked improve-
ment in recoveries that put the spring of
£584,416 into last term’s profit, raising
it to 32.7 p.c. on capital as against 19.6
p.c. for the previous term. The profit
was struck after allowing for debenture
interest (£152,486), depreciation (£400,000,
up £160,000), prospecting and develop-
ment (£33,184, down £84,284), taxation
(£1,030,000, up £478,200) and payment of
a lead bonus (£877,377) to employees on
the same scale as is paid at Broken Hill.
The div. was lifted from 17 p.c. to 25 p.c.,
making average distribution for the last
three years 17.3 p.c. The preceding 22
years (co. was formed in 1924) were dry
ones, the story being one of low metal
markets, heavy borrowing and other
difficulties.
For the year to June 30 last the Lon-
don average price of lead was £SIO3 as
against £SB7 for the previous term. The
* After deducting payments to staff funds.
* Includes special deposit from Commonwealth Bank,
£15,816,733, 1948; £17,928,287, 1949. + Includes
special account with Commonwealth Bank,
£27,168,924, 1948 ; £80,794,422, 1949.
* After deducting intangibles (now £51,464).
* Includes proportion ( reserves.
t Subject to trade-marks, etc., £72,500, and exclud-
ing contingencies, depreciation, etc., now £239,119.
* At cost.


Blister
June Silver,
Lead,
Copper,
Zinc,
80, Oit.
Ton*.
Tons.
Ton*.
1017..1,885,614
26.006
382
21,618
1048. .2,084,166
29,910
409
23.070
1040.. 2,856,110
SS.547
497
28,907
1948.
1949.
Paid capital
.. £4,445,757 £4,445,757
Demerges ..
946.068
1,245,753
Depreciation
res... 860,088
1,260,093
Debentures
.. 2,212,026
2,149,526
Creditorsf
.. 1,570,413
2,039,733
Mines and
plant,
at cost..
4,925,817
6,428,383
Stocks*
.. 1,000,749
1,687,384
Debtors ..
.. 107,056
250.847
Honda, cash,
etc... 8,393,840
3,774.24S
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
3 --
JACKSOIS $
o5iiixre\>f
t PTIWH a i
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL.” BRISBANE
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.B.W.
am
mm
S £ '
''WVWWWWW
PORCELAIN
BASINS
Wall type,
white.
22in 87/9
20in 80/2
WRINGERS
“Acme,”
£7/12/6-
Whittmgslowe,
£5/16/9
Wringmaster,
£6/19/6
SAW BENCH
Rip and Cross-
cut, £26/13/4
Pamphlet
available.
Clisby Air
Compressors
1201 b. sq. in.,
priced £l2/10/-
plus tax.
NACO
LOUVRES
All sizes avail-
able, with
glass. Ask for
booklet.
PETROL
IRON
“Trump”
pumpless,
gravity fed.
Price, 50/3
EIELH GATES
Tubular Steel,
10£t., £5/7/6
12ft., £5/17/6
X 311., BJ/n/o
CEMENT
BRICK
MAKING
MACHINE
Priced £l7/1/6
SCYTHES
Tyzack .. 15/3
Hickory
Handle .. 19/6
FENCING
PEIERS
English
lOin 8/-
KJv'
FIRE
FIGHTER
Rega .... 66/-
Simpson . 67/-
Spare nozzle,
7/1
CONCRETE
BLOCK
MAKING
MACHINE
Priced £B/10/-
Wood Stoves
Green and
Cream; blue
and cream,
Polished tops.
No 1 £l4/16/10
No. 2 £l7/3/9
2 Side Boiler
£25/4/7
KS«yv-
■L
BOTABY
HOIST
16ft., £ll/7/6
18ft., £l2/2/
20ft,, £l2/16/8
PIPE TONGS
|in. to 2in., at
35/6
Jin. to Sin., at
58/10
CONCRETE
MIXER
Standard model
£l4/13/4
De Luxe onl
wheels £l7/15/-|
(SIT OUB SHOWROOM WHEN NEXT IN TOWN
ADELAIDE
NORTHTERRACE
41
44
i
iiil
CENTRAL
2990
PHONE
BANE
or
AUSTRALASIA
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND
NEW ZEALAND AND IN LONDON #
©FFERS the services of its Travel Departments with all
facilities for Travellers in Australia and abroad. The
Overseas Departments will also assist you with their ex*
erience on all aspects of overseas trade introductions and
enquiries, and all foreign exchange matters. Enquiries
will be welcomed at any Branch of the Bank.
AGENTS b CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
£ST
§£2?£g|J
g&
B
>835
1835
SAT .1 ?
quarterly averages for lead and
zinc moved in this way: —
Lead. Zinc.
1948— (Stg.). (Stg.).
July-Sept. ..£9115 0 £76 0 0
Sept-Dee. .. 113 10 0 92 0 0
1949—
Jan.-Mar. .. 114 0 0 106 0 0
Apt-June . . 94 10 0 91 0 0
Silver fluctuated between 42yd.
and 47d. (stg.). Since the close
of accounts lead rose from
£S82 15s. for July to £S110 19s.
for October, following devalua-
tion of sterling, and eased to
£S98 10s. for December. For
the same months the figures for
zinc were £S65 10s., £S82 18s.
and £S85 14s. respectively. What
the future holds for metal prices
is anybody’s guess at the
moment; U.S. is the dominat-
ing influence in the market.
However, the movements augur
well for another good showing
by the co. at next balance.
The mill treated 611,270 tons
(up 53,260 tons) ore containing
more silver and lead but less
zinc—assay 5.8oz. silver, 8 p.c.
lead and 7.9 p.c. zinc—for the
following concentrates: —
Assay s
Silver, Lead, Zinc,
Tons. Oz. p.c. p.c.
Concentrates—
Lead .. 106,948 25.5 86.1 9.1
Zinc .. 46,529 3.05 2.6 51.4
Of the zinc concentrates 12,000
tons were sold locally at the
fixed price of £A40 a ton for
zinc content. The balance, to-
gether with 37,155 tons lead bul-
lion and 2673 tons copper-bear-
ing lead dross, was sold over-
seas, the bullion in Britain and
the dross in U.S.
Outstanding feature of mill
operations was the big improve-
ment in recoveries following
treatment of the flotation feed
with sulphur dioxide gas. The
figures were 76.4 p.c. silver, 79.1
p.c. lead and 49.7 p.c. zinc, com-
pared yvith 69.7 p.c., 73.2 p.c.
and 47.6 p.c. respectively for the
previous year. In September,
1949, recovery figures had
reached 81.4 p.c. silver, 84.4 p.c.
lead and 53.9 p.c. zinc. For this
remarkable achievement share-
holders can thank the metallurgi-
cal staff and H. Hendricks, a
flotation expert from U.S.
Including a small quantity of
siliceous fluxing and purchased
ore, total metal contents com-
pare as follows: —
Increased cost of coal, coke and
other supplies, higher rail
freights, lower output per man-
shift and the lead bonus sent
costs up by 27.9s. to 76.7s. a
ton. Excluding the lead bonus
the figure was 54.4s. a ton. The
lead bonus averaged £471 per
employee-year, and Was equiva-
lent to 20 p.c. on share capital.
Ore reserves at June 30 were:
' —Assay ■,
Pb, Zn, Ag,
Lead-Zinc— Tons. p.c. p.c. Oz.
Sulphides .. 9,386,137 8.6 7.3 6.5
Carbonates. • 277,130 9.1 — 4.0
Copper— P-c-
Ou,
Sulphides .. 2,892,930 4.02 — —
Oxides .. 58,700 7.90 — —
The drill has indicated that a
lot more payable stuff exists
outside measured limits, and new
areas are being prospected.
The State coalmine at Col-
linsville again failed to meet
the co.’s requirements, which
will be double the present figure
when the new copper plant gets
going. So far the co.’s hunt for*
its own coal deposit at Oakey
Creek and elsewhere has not met
with the success desired.
Slow delivery of materials,
especially steel, now being im-
ported from U.K., has delayed
erection of the copper plant,
some important sections of which
are not expected to be on the
site before mid-1951. When
complete this plant is scheduled
to handle 30,000 tons copper
sulphides for an output of 1500
tons blister a month.
The year’s outlay on fixed
assets was £502,576, of which
£264,649 was in respect of the
copper project: —
lOAQ 1 QiCL
The big pile of Government
securities, cash, etc. (up
£380,403), includes £1,483,771
of unexpended capital funds.
Uncertain of the future of
metal prices and costs, the mar-
ket cautiously prices the pound
stock units at 39s. (43s. a year
ago), giving a return of 12.8 p.c.
on a 25 p.c. div. basis.
Great Western Consolidated
Western Mining Corp. is
offering at par 3,000,000 10s.
shares, paid to 2s. each, in Great
Western Consolidated, N.L., the
operating offshoot formed a
year or so ago to take over,
develop and work five leases on
the Yilgarn field (W.A.). Half
the shares now offered have been
taken firm by the underwriters
(lan Potter and Cos. and E. L.
and C. Baillieu). Of the remain-
ing 1,500,000 available for sub-
scription by the general public,
those on Western Mining Corp.’s
register have prior rights to
750,000 until February 6. A
shilling a share is expected to
be asked for before end June,
and another shilling within the
next 12 months. There are no
specific rights to any definite
number of shares.
Shareholders in Gold Explora-
tion and Finance of Australia,
whose assets (shares in a number
of goldmining ventures) were
recently taken over by Western
Mining Corp., who have not yet
claimed their entitlement of
W.M.C. stock are asked to do
so at once.
The Yilgarn leases lie along
two main beds, one of mineral-
ised greenstone tufts and
the other of silicified and
mineralised slates, striking a
little to the west of north from
Southern Cross. Drilling and
development have suggested that
ore-shoots in the slates, which
have a reputation of fading out
at depth, might have better pros-
pects of living down than
previously supposed. But, apart
from fully-tested opencuts, the
project appears to depend mainly
on ore in the greenstones.
Proved ore is put at 1,290,000
tons (including 790,000 tons
opencut) and prospective ore at
800.000 tons, a total of
2.090.000 tons, averaging
4.7dwt. Costs are estimated at
17s. a ton for opencut and 375.
a ton for underground ore. With
gold at its present price the co.
hopes to win £7,750,000-worth of
the yellow metal for an aggregate
profit of £3,600,000 over the
next nine years; and thereafter
a profit of £BOO,OOO p.a. Cos.
has leased a residential area at
the northern end of Bullfinch
township, and houses are being
erected thereon.
On the board are knight Walter
Massy - Greene, G. Lindesay
Clark and Frank Espie.
S. E. Pearson writes :
Scientific investigation of the Clon-
curry Pre-Cambrian belt, aimed at
locating deep runs of alluvial gold, is
long overdue. If the 1936 geophysical
and aerial reconnaissance, directed
from Canberra, made any recom-
mendations about alluvial deposits
on this field, they are not
known to the writer. Outcrops of
Pre-Cambrian rocks in the Cloncurry
district embrace a potentially
auriferous area of about 250 miles by
70 miles. Ground 50ft. and 100 ft.
in depth is common, while along the
margins of the metalliferous belt,
where gold-bearing sands and gravels
may have followed down the slope of
the bedrock, the ground might run
to 200 ft. or 300 ft. in depth. At
Clermont, where the gold-leads dipped
under the calcareous clays and
shales and sand-rocks of the Marine
Cretaceous series, gold-bearing con-
glomerates have been worked at
250 ft. from the surface. In the
Cloncurry area there are no rocks,
such as basalt, sealing the alluvial
leads, as vulcanicity in that area has
been unknown since early Proterozoic
time. The only fcprm of cover-rock
in that district is a dense con-
glomerate, with matrices of lime,
iron and manganese. The age pf
these conglomerates is open to dis-
cussion. The earlier of them are
probably of Proterozoic origin. Later
deposits may be of Carboniferous
age, in which case they would be
brought into line, geologically, with
the conglomerates on the Clermont
goldfield. The much-talked-of Blair
Athol coal deposits (near Clermont)
are only a few miles from where gold
is being worked in the Miclere deep
lead. Coal of poor quality has been
found along the edge of the Clon-
curry metalliferous belt; and at Lawn
Hill, in the Burketown district, free
gold has been found in coal —a rare
occurrence. If deep runs of the
yellow metal are ever located in the
Cloncurry district it is likely that
they will date from much earlier
than Carboniferous time. The gold-
bearing conglomerates at Mt.
Quamby have been declared non-
fossiliferous, and of undetermined age
—relics of some remote geological
period. Professor David gave it as
his opinion that if Pre-Cambrian
gold-leads are ever located in the
Cloncurry district they would be
found to be phenomenally rich. The
reasons are: (1) Primary sheddmgs
held in situ in an area never sub-
jected to subsequent disturbance; (2)
concentrations in the valleys formed
when the rainfal was infinitely greater
than in later ages and when erosion
and outwash from the ranges was
likewise greater. In some parts or
Australia . alluvial gold may have
undergone a second, possibly a third,
shedding, but not in the Cloncurry
Pre-Cambrian belt, which is part of
the geological structure Professor
David referred to as “Australia’s
rigid shield.”
* * * *
Central Victoria Gold Dredg-
ing got its first dredge going on
the Jim Crow area, near New-
stead (Vic.), on December 15,
and all sections of the machine
are reported to be running
smoothly. For the period to
January 17, during which there
was a 10-day Christmas shut-
down, 51,000 c.y. were dug
during 262 working hours for
3730 z. fine gold, an average of
3.55 gr. per yard. If this average
is maintained satisfactory profits
should be earned. In the early
part of the period the buckets
didn’t reach bottom, and some
28,000 c.y. of barren over-
burden and low-grade upper
gravels were removed. In the
whole Jim Crow area there is an
estimated 10,500,000 c.y. bored
to average 2.5 gr. ______
* Includes products on hand, t Includes
final div.


KM I *
FONDE
fd
EN 1724
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
FIRM
A British-made adhesive plaster that is
comfortable, elastic and conveniently
wound on a ,metal spool. That’s Elasto-
plast, the truly modern dressing! Flesh-
coloured and inconspicuous, it stays
neat and dean. Firm, flexible Elastoplast
replaces bulky bandages. 1" x 1 yd.
long, it stretches to l|/2 yds.
FROM ALL CHEMISTS
hmstoplast
TRADE MARK
E-L-A-S-T-l-C ADHESIVE PLASTER
First Aid Dressings, in RED tins, also available. El/)2S
MADE IN ENGLAND BX T. J. SMITH & NEPHEW. LTD., **ULE
To safeguard the welfare
of your dependents
A simple procedure
1. Make a list of your Assets ami your Liabilities —
and of those whom you wish to share in your
Estate.
2. Confer with a Senior Officer of Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited and make a sound plan for your
Estate so that your dependents shall receive the
maximum benefit.
3. Have your Solicitor draw your Will so that it
embodies this plan.
4. Appoint Perpetual
T rustee Company
Limited a* your
sole executor —or
Jointly with a rela-
tive or friend. The
Company's 62
years’ experience
and its facilities will
ensure efficient
management of
your Estate—-when
it is called upon to
act.
The services offered by
the Company and its
charges are explained in a
booklet, “Your Executor
and Trusteewhich has
been found most helpful
by many men land
women ) iti/th Estates to
bequeath
CaV or write for a
copy today.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLATE AIR, M.L.C.
(Chairman);
B. R. KNOX:
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT;
D. R. LTSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager
•
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68.000,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT I VAGGA WAGGA, TAM WORTH and ORANGE
Business Rollery etc.
I Wool Prices and Costs
The second half of the cur-
rent wool-selling season has
opened with prides 20 to 25 p.c.
higher than just before Christ-
mas ; they are at record levels
in most classes. This year’s
wool cheque promises to be
over £220 million, compared
with £195 million for 1948-49.
At the same time, because of
| devaluation of sterling and as
a direct result of Australian
currency, the Cost of wool to
the dollar buyer is probably still
a good deal below early-1949
prices. Wool, on the average,
is now about six times the price,
in Australian money, that it was
before the war. But in dollars
;it is about three and a half
times the pre-war price. The
pre-war price was not a high
one by standards established
over the preceding 20 years.
Present inflation in wool
prices in Australia is disturbing,
especially as it is largely due, in
this season, to the devaluation
of sterling-linked currencies. It
is a decidedly inflationary fac-
tor, and, unless watched very
closely, may prove to be more
of a menace than a benefit. It
is not, of course, the prime
cause of inflation in this coun-
try, especially under present
conditions of price-control. At
the moment prices of consumer
goods are based mainly on costs
of production; and it is inade-
quate production, which auto-
matically brings high costs,
which is chiefly responsible for
the ever-increasing cost of liv-
ing in Australia. But high wool
prices tend to bring high capi-
tal values and to encourage the
payment of higher money wages
regardless of the amount of
work done by the wage-earner.
And there is no questioning the
influence of soaring raw-
material prices or the cost of
woollen clothing.
Last week, also, there came
news of a further increase in the
basic wage. With the first pay
in February the minimum wage
will rise by 3s. a week in Syd-
ney, ss. in Melbourne, Brisbane
by 25., Adelaide by 35., Perth by
3s, and Hobart by 3s. Sydney
and Melbourne will have the
highest wage-rates (and there-
fore the highest living costs)
with £6 15s. a week; Brisbane
will have the lowest, with £6 7s.
The rise in the Sydney wage has
been from £4 Is. in September,
1939, to its present figure—an
inflation of 545., or 66 p.c.
Though a small part of the rise
was labelled “prosperity load-
ing” shortly after the end of the
war, the wage-earner who is on
the minimum wage is probably
worse off than he was in 1939.
Present high wool prices will
aid Government budgeting be-
cause of the higher taxable
revenue of producers. The
statistical position of the staple
is sound; almost all war-time
carryovers have been absorbed.
So long as costs can be restrained
the position of the pastoralist
and those depending upon him
seems to be particularly secure,
even allowing for a fall of as
much as 30 p.c. in prevailing
rates. • But the remainder of the
economy may be far more sus-
ceptible to this present price in-
flation and any subsequent
reactions.
If prevailing prices for wool
are sustained the question of
bringing our currency back to
parity with sterling becomes
more and more insistent. A
change in the exchange rate
would have a number of un-
i pleasant repercussions for sec-
tional interests. But we are
rapidly approaching an infla-
tionary crisis, and this “ex-
change premium” obviously
figures in it. An overall plan
must be evolved to deal with the
whole problem, which includes
production, taxation and man-
power factors as well as the ex-
ternal yalue of, our currency in
“Nonsense, Gerald; that’s not the mountains —it's only an advertisement."
relation to sterling and the
dollar.
Last week Australian share-
markets were fairly steady after
recent buoyancy. There is a
tendency to wait and see how
the costs - price - currency - tax
problem works out.
Oil Search Issue
“Lemon”: The prospectus
announcing the postponed issue
of 2,100,000 shares of ss. each
at par by Oil Search, Ltd.,
suffers from an excess of modesty
which is unusual in a document
appealing to the public for
funds.
The prospectus mentibns that
drilling is in progress at Hohoro
and Upoia and is about to start
at Malalaua and Wana, but it
does not point out, as it quite
legitimately could, that the
abandonment of Oroi —a most
courageous step —was, on the
advice of experts of world-wide
experience and of the highest
qualifications, in the best interests
of the shareholders.
Orloli is not named, but this
location, as well as that at
Omati, soon to be announced,
has been chosen as a result of
the cumulative results of Papuan
drilling and of relevant experi-
ence in other parts of the world.
It should also be a matter for
congratulation that the Austral-
asian Petroleum experts are now
able to restrict their major ex-
ploratory work to an area lying
between approximately 150 and
270 miles north-west of Port
Moresby in the coastal section of
Papua.
That the Stock Exchange re-
action to this baldly factual
prospectus should be a monetary
drop in the share values to a
penny below par is difficult to
explain. Any company which
gives, a straight deal in the
notoriously suspect business of
exploration for oil deserves the
support of the Australian public,
particularly' where its success
would be of such ’enormous
advantage not only to its share-
holders but to the Common-
wealth.
Currency Trafficking
Gold and dollar speculators
have been making the most of
the chance to net profits in
Maoriland’s active blackmarkct
in hard currency and the
precious metal. Holders of
gold and dollars, tempted by
offers that make their mouths
water, find it hard to believe that
“honesty is the best policy,” and
there’s a leakage that’s keeping
the flow in official channels too
low for the health of N.Z.’s
Reserve Bank and its heavily-
watered currency, both of which
are somewhat anaemic after
years of Labor-Socialist infla-
tion, now ended. Offers have
ranged up to a handsome £2O
an ounce for gold, against M.L.’s
official price of £l2 4s. 6d.i and
up to 10s, for dollar-notes, worth
7s. Id, at the banks. This buy-
ing pressure isn’t traceable to
any single source, but Chinese
agents have a big finger in the
pie. Worthless Chinese dollars
have converted China’s teeming
millions into hoarders of gold
and silver, if they are able to
hoard at all, and Chinese who
go back home from N.Z. and
elsewhere rack their brains in
scheming to take a stock of bul-
lion along with them. It’s a
battle of wits with Customs
•sleuths who are watchdogs at
embarkation ports, and official-
dom is outwitted often enough
to yield profit to the smugglers.
At £l6 to £2O an ounce it doesn’t
take much gold to add up to
£lOO or more.
Some buyers of gold in Maori-
land figure that it’s worth while
to stow the metal away and wait
for Uncle Sam to lift the dollar
price. They’re banking on get-
ting up to 50 dollars an ounce,
against today’s price of 35 dol-
lars, if they sit back a while,
and reckon Yankee opposition
to a rise will give way in the
end. At 50 dollars, gold in N.Z.
would be priced at £lB 2s. 6d.
an ounce, which isn’t more than
blackmarketeers are ready and
willing to pay now.
Maorilanders who go globe-
trotting and traders keen to get
Yankee goods, if they can wangle
import licences, are keenly on
the lookout for dollars and don’t
haggle about the price, even if
they realise that they’re paying
double what the dollar was
worth in the good old days.
Other leakage channels are cur-
rency-bargaining by visiting sea-
men, travellers, tourists and
dealers in exchange, and the
post. Customs scrutiny has been
tightened up until it’s dubbed
“exacting,” and individuals with
tender consciences may be
deterred by the obligation to
sign declarations that everything
is straight and above-board, but
where there’s gain the incentive
to share in it is hard to curb.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO PATTIE JEFFREY ERNEST
BRACKEN whose last known address was
9 Airlie Street Corowa. —TAKE NOTICE
that JOHN HAMILTON JEFFREY has
filed Petition No. 3272 of 1949 praying
for a divorce from PATTIE JEFFREY on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards and
on the further ground of her adultery
with the abovenamed ERNEST BRACKEN
If you or either of you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 31st March 1950 and
Obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from A. R. MORRIS GIBSON,
Solicitor 4 O’Connell Street, Sydney.—
(L.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
BLEMISHES
Spots, roughness
and soreness mar
the beauty of
skin and com-
Use Cuticura
' Soap regularly Its
antiseptic and qiedicinal pro-
perties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio—Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder.
a
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HtLIiTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots SOlb,
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.*
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on 0.0 J>, Orders,
Pwtmt-
until summer is nearly over ,
and swelter day and night
INSULATE
your home NOW with
B.LSLAGWOOL
No house, home, office or building to modern and entirely
healthy unless It is Insulated preferably with BJ.
SLAG WOOL.
f
B
cw°S“
si>
Insulation
PTY., LTD.
’Phones: Sydney 8X5584, Melbourne
MU3506, Brisbane 83604, Adelaide C 7357,
Perth 1-3107
RTG 18
SPRAY SECTIONS
I
WM:
m
i
cost*
loot*
OHt
C\l'
0*
spsav
VlOß*
nbow
MIOH
&HS
\n*' G
Good irrigation MAKES money
for you . . . and Rainbow Spray Irrigation SAVES
money and work. The 48 feet coverage of each
spray-head means a third less sections to buy and
to move around! Rainbow Spray Irrigation gives you
better irrigation at far less cost.
aluminium mains and sections
Lightweight, durable spray sections and 24 ft. mams, approxi-
mately HALF the weight and TWICE the life of ordinary
mains and sections.
SPRAY IRRIGATION IS BEST, AND
THE BEST SPRAY IRRIGATION!
RAINBOW" MAKES
RAINBOW.
SPRAY
IRRIGATION
83 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. 'PHONE 8U3425
64 King St., Melbourne—MU 5271. S° utl j A u stralia. R L
CURRY, 24 light Sq., Adelaide. Phone: C 1065.
60/83.8 ———
J
SPECIAL SPRAY HEAD
Scientifically designed to throw
a spray over an area of 48 ft.
square.
FLEXIBLE COUPLINGS
Worked on ball and socket prin-
ciple, flexible in all directions up
to angles of better than 25%.
Easy adjustment, positive lock.
1
COMBINED OUTLET
AND* HYDRANT
Vastly improved hydrant simpli-
fies operation, gives
minimum obstruction in
both outlet and main.
COMPACT
STURDY STANDS
Sturdy angle iron, with-
out cross-bars, to give
maximum support with
minimum interference
with vegetation.
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
Even now, with 6,000,000
family units in Southern England
and the Midlands in comfort-
able range of two powerful trans-
mitters, television still seems a
novelty, half-magical and vaguely
unreal. Few remember that
daily programmes from Alex-
andra Palace were first broad-
cast in 1936 and continued until
the outbreak of war. But this
important fact is not overlooked
in the new and thriving industry
which plans, in the face of re-
curring difficulties and frustra-
tions, to give “coverage” to
40.000. people out of Britain’s
50.000. within the next five
years. Television was a British
invention, they point out; Britain
was first in the field and is
second to none in invention and
technique. Manufacturers, on
their toes for all requirements
home and oversea, give these
assurances with quiet, modest
confidence and no boasting or
sales-talk.
Production of sets in 1949,
which reached 27,000 in the
month of October, is twice that
of 1948-and six times that of
1947. The number of viewers’
licences rose from 33,000 at the
end of 1947 to 93,000 a year
later and to about 250,000 at the
end of last year. The new
station at Sutton Coldfield, which
is linked by co-axial cable to
London, was opened just before
Christmas and is many times
more powerful than any in
America Others will follow in
the West Riding, Scotland and
the Bristol Channel area, with
lower-powered satellites a t
Aberdeen, Newcastle, Belfast,
Southampton and Plymouth,
although it is held to be over-
optimistic to hope for all this by
the end of 1954, as is forecast.
TV and the Family
The prospects of television are
illimitable. Its first cousin,
radar, needs no comment; and
closed-circuit color reproduc-
tion, in another part of the build-
ing, of a surgical operation or a
dangerous experiment was one
of last year’s discoveries.
But for many years to come
television’s main function must
be entertainment at home. The
repercussions on everyday life
are very similar to “listening-in
after the Kaiser’s war. For an
hour and a half nearly every
evening the entire household
looks at television (not at a par-
ticular programme). There are
“flickers” and breakdowns simi-
lar to the early days of films.
The general quality of the pro-
grammes is not high. School-
children have the best-ever
reason for scamping, or avoid-
ing, their homework —and so
also have the grown-ups.
The main difference between
the two inventions is the price
of the sets, which explains why
only 8 per cent, of families
within range of Alexandra
Palace own television sets.
(Families in the Midlands are
better off than in London, so
that a higher percentage is ex-
pected there.) The cheaper sets
(at £4O) are apt to be cheap in
performance as well. Last year
the average selling-price was £65
10s., which compares rather
drastically with the crystal-set.
And—l almost forgot—purchase
tax of £2l has to be added to
this sum. That’s something else
we didn’t have 25 years ago.
Theatre
Nineteen-forty-nine in the
theatre was above all an
actor’s year. With about
one-quarter of the shows origin-
ating from America it can hardly
be said to have been a good
year for British dramatists.
Terence Rattigan had only a
short run, while Priestley had a
failure, and the most famous of
living dramatists, G. 8.5., a flop.
James Bridie’s tantalisingly in-
sufficient play, “Daphne Laure-
ola,” owes much of its success
to its star, Edith Evans, and a
male trio (including the new-
comer Peter Finch) of polished
excellence. Limited successes
have been scored by Charlotte
Hastings’s first play, “Bona-
venture,” and Alan Melville’s
“Castle in the Air.” The excep-
tion, and the success of the year,
is Christopher Fry’s “The Lady’s
Not For Burning,” which also
appears to have given an en-
couraging fillip to his pen.
The outlook for new drama-
tists is not a promising one
since modern theatre finance
compels managers to play safer
than ever they did. While more
and more money is being poured
into the box-office, production
costs are so high that long runs
must be guaranteed. Insurance
for this can take three forms:
a transatlantic success, a “big
name,” or widely-known radio
personalities. “Nursery” or
Little Theatres are hamstrung by
expenses and can’t keep alive.
The West End theatre, therefore,
is in danger of being under-
pinned. Future harvests are
threatened by the equivalent, in
drama, of soil erosion: too much
is being taken out and not
enough is being put in.
The Old Vic. Company, recon-
stituted after hints of internal
disagreement, is now better
balanced and off to a promising
, start with Shakspeare and Tur-
genev.
Some notable performances
were :■ Flora Robson as a pitiable
shoplifter in “Black Chiffon *,
Ralph . Richardson and Peggy
Ashcroft in Henry James’s up-
heaval of family life, The
Heiress”; Paul Muni, jointly
with the effects and lighting
staffs, in “Death of a Salesman” ;
John Gielgud and the entire cast
in “The Lady’s Not For Burn-
ing” ; and Herbert Lomas as the
urbane gaffer in the short-lived
“Summer Day’s Dream.”
While the London stage may
have disproportionately drawn
upon American playwrights, the
traffic is not all one-way, for
British actors and actresses
appear equally sought after on
Broadway.
Vehicle Named Success
The sensation of the year was
Tennessee Williams’s play, “A
Streetcar Named Desire.”
Opinions vary considerably as to
the merits of this essay in
tragedy. But the secret of its
appeal is neither obscure nor in-
definable. One need notice only
the streetcar’s very name (that it
is taken from fact matters no-
thing) and the murmur of quest-
ing publicity that preceded the
opening night.
One opinion at least is far
from rapturous. The play seems
to be simply and blatantly a
melodrama, skilfully put together
but rather overwritten, which
sometimes creaks with outworn
machinery and sometimes presses
on relentlessly with new. Many
slices of life are laid on with
lavish dollops and serve to re-
mind us all how very, very
blameless by comparison are the
private lives of our own dear
selves. .
In a New Orleans tenement
we are shown fallen gentry,
sexual degeneracy, squalor,
drink, pregnancy, brutality, vice,
ignorance, cunning, revenge and,
finally, madness. There is, as if
it were thrown in to make
weight, a rape at the end of the
second act that is tragi-comic
in its contrived inevitableness.
And, of course, there are other
things besides, including a touch
of pathos —notably in the
mousey, docile younger sister
(Renee' Asherson) and even in
the violent true-love of her hus-
band (Bonar Colleano). But they
seem, like mere eddies in a swirl
of sewage.
Vivien Leigh’s performance as
Blanche, the nymphomaniac, is
astounding. Only a technique
of the highest order could sus-
tain such a part, where one false
gesture or intonation would in-
stantly bring forth a ripple of 'j
titters. These were indeed heard
at times, through no fault of the
actors. Laurence Olivier’s pro-
duction is high-paced and brings i
into play every device, not 1
always with success, to cover up
the hamfat.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Spectators at the tennis championships
at Kooyong included hosts of attractive
girls, their tanned arms and shoulders
revealed by the low cut of sun-frocks.
There was great excitement when young
Ken McGregor defeated Drobny and
thus, it was freely anticipated, played his
way into the Davis Cup team. In her
classically-cut white silk pleated shorts
American Doris Hart was a delight to
watch. She has a smashing serve and
plays a graceful but forceful game.
Among the youthful spectators was Carol
Griffiths, in a blue-and-white-floral cotton
blouse which had white embroidery out-
lining the shoulders and a brown floral
dirndl skirt. Meryl Wooding was cool in
a blue gingham frock with white sleeves.
A green-and-white-patterned sun-frock
was worn by Mrs, Eric Greig. Mrs. Basil
Glowrey’s tailored frock was of primrose-
toned linen. Over her pastel-blue gingham
frock Mrs. Mervyn Weston wore a short
white linen bolero. A floral sun-frock
was Mrs A. Palmer’s choice. Lesley le
Neveu and Bettina Burgess pinned their
sartorial faith to the dependable seer-
sucker. Wide blue-and-white stripes were
printed on Elaine Barr’s frock. Jean
Darragh’s cinnamon-brown silk frock had
a deep, wide neckline and slim skirt.
Lorna Pearson’s turquoise-blue cottons
were printed with white flowers. Mrs.
Bayne McKay’s pink linen frock was
splashed with muted grey leaves and
brilliant gold flowers. Mrs. John Cos-
stick’s brown-and-white-striped seersucker
sun-frock set off her evenly-tanned
shoulders,
Menzies’ was the setting for the late-
afternoon party thrown by Colonel
Frank Gillespie, U.S. Air Force Attache,
and Mrs. Gillespie. The banquet-hall
was decorated with huge bowls of
hydrangeas in pink and blue tonings.
Guest-of-honor was General George
Stratemeyer, Commanding General of the
U.S. Air Force in the Far East. In the
low neckline of her black taffeta bal-
lerina cocktail frock Mrs. Gillespie pinned
pink roses. Assisting Mrs, Gillespie was
Mrs. William Taylor, whose husband
recently took up his appointment in this
city as Assistant Air Attache ; she topped
her black faille suit with a black velvet
halo-hat. The R. G. Caseys were there,
she in a black grosgrain frock which was
made with a portrait neckline. Mrs.
Samuel Fletcher, wife of the U.S. Consul-
General, added an osprey-trimmed match-
ing hat to her black satin jacket-suit.
Mrs. Adrian Perry, wife of the U.S. Naval
Attache, wore a peacock-blue moire
taffeta suit, the jacket featuring an up-
standing fichu collar ; her small matching
velor hat was banded with a pearl-studded
gold chain. With her black grosgrain
ensemble Mrs. Tom Blarney wore a small
turquoise-blue Dutch bonnet trimmed
with embroidery. Vice-Consul Helene
Fischer combined a black outfit and pink-
roses-embellished black hat. A lime-
green ostrich plume flew from the hat
Mrs. H. W. Murmagen wore with her
black faille jacket-suit. Mrs. C. C.
Wackett was in aqua-blue crepes. Of
oyster-grey crepe was Mrs. H. A.
Cavanaugh’s suit; her hat was lime-green.
Mrs. Herbert Allen’s beige suit was
topped with an osprey-trimmed black hat.
Monsignor Hannan officiated at the
nuptials of Ann, only daughter of Dr.
Cyril F, MacGillicuddy, of Hawthorn,
and the late Mrs. MacGillicuddy, and
William, eldest son of Mr. F. R. Taylor,
of Northcote, and the late Mrs. Taylor,
at St. Peter’s, Toorak. The bride’s all-
white gown was fashioned with a French
lace bodice and bouffant tulle skirt, and
her headdress was a satin plait inter-
woven with pearls. Gardenias and
stephanotis formed the bouquet. Eliza-
beth Brain and Peg Norris were brides-
maids ; they wore pastel-green saris over
their white French lace gowns, which had
dropped shoulders and tulle skirts. The
’groom’s brother, Geoffrey, was best man,
and Peter MacGillicuddy, the bride’s
brother, was groomsman. The reception
>vas held at Menzies’,
Mrs. Ronald Nott, who leaves in the
Ceramic with her sister, Betty Smith, of
Sydney, for a holiday (they intend spend-
ing a lot of time in France but well off
the beaten track of the tourist), was guest-
of-honor at a buffet dinner-party given
by Mrs. Eric Thonemann, in her Toorak
home. Mrs. Nott wore a black silk
crepe frock with a plastron of deep-pink
roses on the bodice. The hostess’s slim-
fitting frock was of navy romaine, the wide
Bertha collar being outlined with white
point lace, Mrs. M. Hamilton’s aqua
silks were patterned in black; blue roses
trimmed her black tulle picture-hat. Mrs.
A. N. Poulton’s ballerina frock was of
navy-and-white candy-striped taffeta.
Pink roses were set under the brim of
the black tulle hat Mrs. A. Fowler wore
with her black taffeta frock. Mrs.
Henry Steele added to her powder-blue
crepe frock an upturned hat of white
straw banded with matching blue satin.
Myra Davis wore with her black moire
taffeta frock a small off-white felt hat.
Mrs. H. P. Ogilvy’s black taffetas were
spotted with gold and silver. Mrs.
Redvers Dunbar gained smart effect with
an emerald-green moire jacket-suit and
matching green hat which had beige and
green roses. Mrs. C. R. Duncan topped
her white printed aqua-blue frock with a
grey silk-straw hat. Mrs. E. Rodek
helped her mother with the hostessing in
a cocktail frock of black moss-crepe.
The engagement has been announced
of Pamela Myer, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Norman Myer, to the Hon.
Simon George Warrender, second son of
Lord and Lady Bruntisfield. Pamela, who
is at present in London, studied millinery
in Paris and opened her French salon in
the family’s big Melbourne store. Her
fiance was recently in Australia.
Mrs. Philip Dare leaves soon on a
business trip to London and Paris.
Designer and creator of the well-known
Stell-Ricks suits, Mrs. Dare is noted for
the smartness of her dressing. Photo by
John Warlow.
At her lovely Toorak home Mrs.
Sidney Baillieu Myer gave a latc-
afternoon party, her daughter Marigold,
who is to marry Ross Shelmerdine this
week, being the guest-of-honor. Contrast-
ing with her mother’s cocktail frock of
silver-grey satin was Marigold’s frock of
beige crepe, heavily beaded with silver.
The prospective bridegroom’s mother
wore primrose silks patterned in black
and a wide-brimmed tulle picture-hat.
Baillieu Myer, who has remained for the
wedding, leaves at the end of the week
for Cambridge to finish his studies.
Helen McDonald, smart in black, made
happy speech.
Brilliant sunshine brought out the
lightest of summer dresses for the
M.R.C.’s meeting at Caulfield. Mrs.
Harry Scott’s frock of dove-grey crepe
romaine had the back and front float-
ing panels in the skirt; her grey straw
hat. was trimmed with blue and grey
quills. Mrs. C. J. Taylor wore with her
lime-green crepe frock a natural-straw
hat. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S.
Disney, was in navy and white; her
small hat was of white straw. Mrs.
Frank Dempsey had black accessories for
her dusty-pink linen frock. Large navy
coin-spots patterned the white frock
Mrs. A. G- Hunter wore with her large
white hat, which had a ruffled tulle edge.
Mrs. H. Furnell’s frock had gold and grey
flowers printed on a black background;
her hat was of natural straw.
A tailored grey linen frock and a white
grosgrain hat trimmed with gold-toned
taffeta bows made smart alliance for Mrs.
W. A. Collopy. Elizabeth Simpson added
to her satin-striped black ottoman-silk
jacket-suit an off-white felt hat trimmed
with chenille-spotted veiling. Her sister
Thelma wore an upturned hat with her
frock of dusty-pink silk. Lois Finlay set
off the tan acquired from a holiday on
Lord Howe Island with a linen frock in
pale-cyclamen tonings and a white beret.
Mrs. W- H. Horsfall’s grey-and-white-
spotted silk frock featured a peg-top skirt
and portrait neckline; her hat was of
•fine black straw. White windmills were
printed on the grey silk frock worn by
Mrs. Frank Watts with her black straw
hat. Mrs. J. C. Reilly used pearls to
button the front of her powder-blue
tailored frock. Mrs. G. Alderton con-
trasted her black-and-white-check taffeta
frock with a wide-brimmed yellow straw
hat. A tiny yellow bonnet was worn by
Louise Everett with her black silk romaine
frock.
From Sydney
The late Padre Drummond’s Far West
holiday scheme is now celebrating a
happy silver jubilee. The seaside camp
in the Manly public school has never
been gayer than this year. One hundred
and fifty girls and boys whose homes are
more than 300 miles from Sydney, and
who had never seen the sea before or a
big city, are here. They are having a
grand time in the surf, are being taught
to swim by the Manly Swimming Club,
are being told all about traffic rules and
safety principles by two friendly members
of the police force, are having trips to
the zoo. They have been invited by
theatre managements to the pantomimes,
to the movies and have visited the
Orcades. On that occasion the wharfies
sent around the hat —result, £5 for the
Far West Scheme.
The helpers in this scheme never lose
their enthusiasm, and each year Matron
Hill and her volunteer assistants do a fine
job. Three cheers for Sister Irene Webb,
for Clive Lindfoot, and for John Ness
and his wife. Some time ago John was
transferred to Adelaide, but he and his
wife come to Sydney for their summer
vacation, and each year they time their
trip by way of Broken Hill so that they
can help to bring down many youngsters
of the Outback to the Manly camp.
William Dargie, often winner of the
Archibald Prize, has just finished a por-
trait which —alas! —was too late for entry
in the great contest. It is a striking study
of Fannie Cohen, headmistress of Fort
Street Girls’ High. Mr. Dargie’s brush
has caught all the color and force of this
lady’s personality, and the result is very
handsome —not more so than the sitter.
This portrait is being presented to the
school as part of the Centenary com-
memoration.
Davie Gladstone, the “Aunt .Eller” of
“Oklahoma!” has won all hearts, and
here is a photograph of the attractive
young creature she really is. Davie
speaks Italian well, as she studied sing-
ing in Milan. Her favorite literature is
Shakspeare and Greek drama. And that,
no doubt, all helps her sweet-as-a-
Granny-Smith-apple impersonation of
“Aunt Eller.”
Farewell parties to Mrs. Fred Howe
and her pretty daughter Joan are
raging. The two go off to England
next month. Mr. Howe, big chieftain
of the publishing-house of Collins in
Australia, will follow about April. But
they will all be back before next Christ-
mas. At a party in their honor last week
a notable guest was Helen Heney, Her
novel, Chinese Camellia, is just being pub-
lished by Collins, and at the party Helen
wore a frock of pink faille, the exact
toning of a pale-pink camellia. She is
already busy on her next book, which is
set in Poland. Helen did a job in
Poland with Red Cross after the war.
She speaks Polish fluently.
The rooms of the Overseas League
were simmering with excitement at last
week’s reception in honor of Sir Leslie
and Lady Wilson. Queensland’s former
Governor, just back in Orcades with his
wife, arrived on time, but Lady Wilson
was not well enough after the voyage
from England to be at the party. The
wife of Overseas president knight Keith
Smith, just back from her travels, with
secretary Kathleen Gaden, received the
150 guests. The fashion that is almost
a passion for grey was smartly carried
out in Lady Smith’s grey afternoon-
frock and tiny cloche hat. Flower-
printed sheer made Miss Gaden’s sum-
mery frock.
Sir Leslie spoke on the Empire and
the Overseas, and 15-year-old Bernadette
Canty, from Invercargill, Maoriland,
winner of the Overseas League oratory
prize, made a very apt speech of thanks
for the warmth of her reception during
her prize visit to Australia. Next month
in Christchurch at the Overseas confer-
ence Bernadette will receive the silver
cup presented by Anthony Eden.
Peter Wilson, who had made the
journey from Queensland to meet his
parents, came to the’ reception. When he
and his parents arrive back in the
Northern State P'eter embarks on matri-
mony. Mrs. Rosina Cock and daughter
Frances, who are travellers from Kent,
England, and Maorilander Miss Mac-
naughton, who is on her way to England,
were other guests.
Margaret Gillespie, who sails in
Orcades outward bound, is giving a grand
farewell to all her friends in the Mac-
quarie Club on the 26th of the month.
An afternoon do. Shutters up at 6.
Maie Hoban, up from Melbourne to
hold her usual summer school of
dramatic art at Paling’s, is keenly in-
terested in the playwriting possibilities
of this State. In the recent competition
for three-acters arranged by the Aus-
tralian Repertory Players (Miss Hoban’s
group) the prizewinners are N.S.W.
authors, Stuart Gurr’s “Wanted for
Murder” and Laurel Mills’s “High
Place” will probably be produced in Mel-
bourne during the next few months. Both
plays, incidentally, have island settings.
Miss Mills is a Newcastle writer.
Mrs. Carl Wilson, back in Sydney after
almost 12 months’ travel, feels the glory
of England—in spite of its ratipns and
not-so-richly-dowered shops—flowing in
her veins. New York, on the other hand,
she found cold though filled with
opulence. Gorgeous shops are here
replete with everything money can buy.
The homes and hotels are soft with the
amenities of hot and cold and all the de-
grees in between. She says the transport
is worse than ours and the New York
crowds not so easy-natured as our own.
She was impressed beyond everything
with the work at Lake Success, and was
in at one of U.N.O.’s meetings when Sir
Alexander Cadogan presided. She re-
ports him an austere and aloof English-
man with a mellow and distinct diction
and on occasion a brisk and dry humor.
The listener at a U.N.O. debate does
not need to know any language but her
own. Each one is supplied with a
switchboard marked with all the tongues
in which the delegates speak. If you
want to listen in English you pull down
the English lever, and if the speaker is of
China, India, France or Poland you hear
a simultaneous translation. All the
languages are there at the pressing of a
button. They come from the soundproof
rooms where the brilliant translators
keep pace with the speakers. Listening
to Mrs. Wilson’s tale, one wonders if
U.N.O. is not the Tower of Babel
brought out of its deep-freeze and served
from a pressure-cooker.
Mrs. Wilson spent a joyful afternoon
with Lady Gowrie at Windsor Castle.
She came home by Way of Panama.
There had just been a revolution down
that way, and the most serene sight
to the Sydneyite’s gaze was that of a nun
calmly driving her Ford car through
Panama city.
Already in the hot murk of January
plans are being made for balls that will
take place in late autumn and early
winter. Last week Mrs. Bernard Muscio
presided at the first meeting for the Inter-
national Ball, which is dated for May 1,
at the Trocadero. Lady Anderson, who
arrived at the weekend in the Strathaird,
after a long visit to England and the
Continent, will be president of the ball
committee. Replicas of the flags at Lake
Success are being sent from U.S. to deco-
rate the Trocadero. April 4 is the date
chosen by the Old Sydneians’ Union for
the annual dance. The Trocadero will be
the scene of action. Bill Dovey has been
elected president of the committee, and
Paul Hughes the secretary.
Members of the N.S.W. Cookery
Teachers’ Association are joint authors
of a rattling best-seller. It is
The Common Sense Recipe Book,
and up to date its sales tot up over
400,000. The association was formed
way back in 1913, its main object being
to compile an authentic text-book. In
1914 the first edition of The Common
Sense Recipe Book was published—the
recipes are simple and Suitable for teach-
ing to schoolgirls. From time to time
it and its companion, A Theory Book on
Cooking, have been revised to meet
changing conditions and the requirements
of the Home Science course. In the years
all the work has been done voluntarily by
the members, and through two wars royal-
ties have gone to patriotic causes.
Scholarships, too, have been founded,
including a £lOOO one for Tertiary Educa-
tion in Home Economics, and £5OO has
gone to the Rachel Forster Hospital.
Many other good causes benefit.


The Australian
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Knitting, Crochet and
Needlecraft
Health Talk, Mothercraft
Serial, Short Stories and
Special Articles
On sale everywhere
Price 3d.
/V.'
$
H
\
UP.
K
//
/
'C
SCHOOLWARE
SUGGESTIONS
YOUTHS 1 SUITS
The coat is smartly cut in
single - breasted, three - button
style; the trousers have four
pleats, side straps and belt loops,
two side and one hip pocket.
Sizes 32in. to 38in. chest, in dark
grey, £B/9/-. Medium grey,
£6/7/6. Light grey, £9/0/9
and £7/3/6.
NAVY RAINCOATS OF ENGLISH GABARDINE
Double Breasted style with Raglan sleeves and belt. To fit boys from 6 to 14
years old.
Lengths: 30in. 32in.
Prices: 73/6 78/-
34in. 36in. 38in.
83/- 87/6 92/-
40in. 42in. 44in.
96/6 101/- 105/6
SHIRTS OF ENGLISH POPLIN
These serviceable shirts are madg to “take the knocks. Roomy cut for comfort,
fused two-way collar and long sleeves, they are offered in white, grey or blue and
in sizes Ilyin, to 14iin. Price, 14/9
and 15/9.
BAXTER SHOES
Made of strong and durable black calf,
these shoes have round or square toes
and are suitable for year-round school-
wear. Sizes 5 to 10 in half sizes.
Price, 47/ -.
SCHOOL HATS
Straw-boaters in all sizes. Price, 24/3.
“Akubra” regulation grey felt hats, all
sizes. Price, 24/,-.
ACCESSORIES
Hat-bands, ties and pocket badges for
all G.P.S. and associated schools.
I
m
PEAPES PTY. LTD.
NEXT WYNYARD STATION, 285 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Hunter Street, Sydney)
SUNDRY SHOWS
ARCHIBALD PRIZE.
Arthur J. Murch, winner of
the 1949 Archibald Prize, has
been sending his portraits to the
competition for 20 years, and it
was high time his rare and re-
strained talent was recognised.
He is one of several fine artists
whose work has been pushed
aside by the daily newspapers.
It might be worth recalling,
so much and so undeservedly has
he been ignored of late, that
Murch was the winner of a
travelling scholarship; that he
studied and painted abroad;
that, as well as painting in oils,
he has done excellent work in
watercolor and in sculpture and
that he has painted landscapes
of Centralia and some superb
portraits of the aborigines.
The distinguishing quality of
his paintings has been a curious
religious tranquillity, deriving
from the Italian primitives.
Sometimes, as in the aboriginal
studies or in “The Flea,” ex-
hibited in Sydney a few years
ago —a gay and. charming anec-
dote with the flavor of Maupas-
sant, showing a lady in search of
one of those nimble beasts —he
has escaped from the ecclesiasti-
cal influence to a more robust
utterance. But in general, if he
is painting a white calf sur-
rounded by people of the Aus-
tralian bush, he makes almost a
Biblical scene out of it; and
even his nudes, sunbaking on
golden Sydney beaches or plung-
ing into glittering surf, have a
kind of still remoteness, un-
natural and beautiful.
The medieval or religious in-
fluence is not apparent in his
portraits, and in the Archibald-
prizewinner the only character-
istic touch is the bronze-gold of
the background, repeated in
coppery tints on the face, which
■is the same warm color Murch
likes to use in his beach scenes,
whether of sand or nudes or
snapper. The portrait of Bonar
Dunlop might be better without
this colored signature ; for the
ideal portrait is the one in which
we are least aware of the artist
and most aware of the subject;
and the Old Masters who
painted the face against a dark
background setting a man
against eternity—knew what they
were doing. The contemporary
fashion of making the whole
composition into a decoration —
this is particularly noticeable in
Dobell’s portrait 'of Frank
Clune, as it was in his last year’s
Margaret Olley—is a mistake:
if we require a portrait to tell
us something about human
character and not merely about
colorful paint.
But Murch’s background does
not take too much attention
from his sitter’s face; neither
does the fact that the hands look
crumbly, hollow, unfinished:
the portrait of a strong, hand-
some, aquiline, intensely male
face, with dark hair and brown
eyes, stands out as a dis-
tinguished piece of work which,
in a minor way, restores to Aus-
tralian portraiture something
that belongs to the great tradi-
tion and has hardly been seen
in this country, except in Mary
Edwards’s paintings, since Lam-
bert: the sense of aristocracy.
Mary Edwards is another
aristocrat who has been too
much forgotten, too much
thrust aside in recent years ; and
her current self-portrait, with
her blue eyes and golden hair
set against green clothes and a
green, faintly back-
ground—well set back from the
face—is a lovely piece of work
which might well have won the
competition. Year after year
Mary Edwards has obviously
been very close to winning the
Archibald; in some years it
should have been hers. True,
her paintings are feminine; but
that gives them an added grace.
True, her best work is in her
self-portraits, and year after
year she submits a new version
of the beautiful self-portrait
the N. S. Wales Gallery bought
long ago ; yet the only proper
consideration for the Trustees
in any given year is, which is
the best piece of portraiture be-
fore their eyes.
Dobell’s portrait this year is
too much like a Dobell: and in
a different way from the Mary
Edwards, because Miss Edwards
does, after all, wear much the
same face each year, but Mr.
Frank Clune should surely have
a different face from Professor
Giblin and Margaret Olley; yet
he looks, in Ddbell’s hands,
very much like an amalgam of
these two previous sitters. It is
still a picture to look at long
and intently, for it has the
characteristic gamin vitality of
the artist and it says some in-
teresting things about Frank
Clune; but there really doesn’t
seem much sense in turning Mr.
Clune into a lemon with green
hair, and why he should have
one ear apparently covered with
blood, unless the artist was
somehow trying to compare him
with Van Gogh, is not easy to
understand. It is more a squib
than a portrait; too grotesque ;
top capricious ; too much a repe-
tition of familiar tricks.
Nineteen-forty-nine was not a
particularly good year for por-
traiture ; you have only to go
to other courts of the Gallery
and inspect the Lamberts, the
Longstaffs and the Ramsays to
see how far the art has fallen
from the grand style. But, along
with the prizewinner, the Mary
Edwards and the Dobell, there
may be mentioned, as paintings
of quality, Joshua Smith’s vigor-
ous “Professor Sutherland” with
his hair and his gown flying in
unprofessorial abandon; A. D.
Colquhoun’s graceful “Miss
Margaret Ironsides” ; a charm-
ing if rather scrapy self-portrait
by Mary McLeish; Max Mel-
drum blushing pink in red bath-
ing-trunks surmounted by his
beard; Justus Jurgensen emerg-
ing gnome-like from his dark,
oily paint; and portraits by
William Dargie, E. Buckmaster,
Roland Strasser, W. E. Pidgeorl,
Garrett Kingsley, Clive Guthrie
and Phyllis Shillito.
George F. Lawrence’s “Two
Rivers,” a hard, industrial com-
position which needs to be
viewed from a distance before
its sweep of distance and charm
of color become apparent, took
the Wynne Prize from a field in
which Lance Solomon was the
only other possible choice. The
Sulman went to an innocuous de-
sign by J. Carington Smith for
a mural for the “New State
Building, Tasmania” ; the live-
liest entry was George Finey’s
extravaganza “Atomic,” an out-
burst of violent and writhing
colors which differs from most
surrealist offerings in that in-
stead of being revolting it has
a wild, aquatic charm like a
tank of demented goldfish.
Five Sydney Painters.
Some oils by Joan Sands are
the most interesting exhibits at
a pleasant show by “Five Sydney
Painters” at David Jones’s
Gallery.
Miss Sands has tried a variety
of methods, from the heighten-
ing of color to mak,e a single
statement in pink of “Christmas
Bush at Dee Why School” to the
bold masses of “The Gardener’s
Cottage. In “Dee Why Land-
scape,” where the method is less
obvious, she has found out what
she really wants to say.
Rita McKenzie also shows
some attractive landscapes, with
a feeling for light and space in
the bush, but her trees tend to
grow sideways in peculiar
streaks of paint and three of her
Berowra pieces are rather
blurred attempts to reproduce
the contrasts of white and black
and dark-green of William
Dobell’s last year’s Wynne prize-
winner.
Among the other paintings, an
uneven lot, there are some rough
boats in colorful water by Con-
stance Morton, an old fireplace
at Coogee by Oscar Edwards and
a “Chemical Store Blaze, Lane
Cove” by Lionel Jago which, if
there is not enough drama in its
crumpled ruins, is at least a
reasonably good attempt to cap-
ture a skyful of fire.
* * * *
There is a touch of wit in
lima Ballantyne-Russell’s paint-
ings at Sydney Macquarie Gal-
leries, but, since one satirical
item seemed obviously to be
about a plump lady in a green
dress singing at a grand piano
and another seemed to deal with
the lumpiness and legginess of
schoolgirls trudging with their
satchels, and the catalogue re-
vealed the first as having to do
with a hat-shop and the other as
a picture of artists going to
work, the wit is somewhat hap-
hazard. For the rest. Miss Bal-
lantyne-Russell’s paintings are
mostly of the Noah’s Ark school,
with toy houses and potted
trees; and if they have the
naive charm of a Noah’s Ark
they have very little more.
"Yeomen of the Guard"
Present commentator hesitates
to remember when he first saw
this Gilsullivan product, at
present experiencing its ump-
teenth revival at Melbourne His
Majesty’s. It wasn’t in this cen-
tury, anyhow. However, it
hasn’t changed much, except
that it has been keyed up and
the fashion has passed of giving
the role of Colonel Fairfax to
a stiff young man with a good-
looking face and nice legs and
no voice to speak of and Elsie
Maynard to the prettiest girl
about the place, irrespective of
her capacity to act or sing or do
anything whatever.
John Dean has a face rather
like a Gothic gargoyle, but more
expressive, and he can act and
has a voice of respectable pro-
portions. Helen Roberts as
Jack Point’s strolling companion
is sonsy and bright and feeling,
and has a really lovely voice,
which is a good thing, because
she has the job of helping to
obscure the fact that Ivan
Menzies can’t sing in the best
lyric in the piece and one of
the best lyrics in the language—
“l Have a Song to Sing, O” —
which is in the English madrigal
tradition, wherein Sullivan did
his best composing.
Much of Gilbert’s song-writ-
ing was so trite and the senti-
ments expressed so false that it
bored Sullivan to make music
for them, which is obvious from
some of the boring music he did
write. But there is less of this in
the “Yeomen” than in any other
of the canon. The story at times
even touches grimness, and in
these places even Richard
Walker, as head jailer and
assistant tormentor, rose to the
occasion. At times it almost
reached black tragedy, and in
the grand finale even Mr.
Menzies became a pathetic and
human figure.
It was a good show, and if
Bernard Manning, as Sergeant
Meryll, sometimes sounded as if
the stones of the Tower had got
into his system, the choruses
were splendid, and the famous
quartet, “Strange Adventure,”
between June Phillips, Evelyn
Gardiner, John Dean and Mr.
Manning, was remarkably well
rendered. This is the opera that
should start off a season.


THE WATKINS INTERLUDE
BY BRIAN JAMES
EUGENQRE didn’t take kindly to
Mr. George Watkins, who
succeeded Mr. Henry Saul at the
district school. It was a pity that
Mr. Watkins should not have created a
Better impression on the collective mind
and, wisdom of Eugenore, for it was a live
and important town, filled with a great
pride in its history, its progress and its
high place in the scheme of creation.
Now, the town had liked Mr. Saul, and
lavished its affection and trust upon him,
and Mr. Saul had prospered greatly. A
town can do that for a headmaster it
respects, Mr. Saul had never done any-
thing startling till Eugenore took him to
its bosom —after that he never looked
back, as the saying goes. He became a
district inspector from Eugenore, and so
on and on to still more dazzling heights.
But then Mr. Saul hadn’t quarrelled
with the townsfolk —unless it might be
with the irate Sandy McNair, whom
everyone hated in any case. Otherwise
Mr. Saul and the town--or at least its
best and brightest citizens —walked hand
in hand along a perfect and harmonious
path of cultural enlightenment and
pedagogic endeavor.
Mr. Saul always thought the right
thing, said the right thing, and did the
right thing. And what is more, he did
these at the right time. And Mr. Saul
looked good. Mrs. Saul, likewise,
thought and said and Aid rightness—
also with proper regard to the time. And
Mrs, Saul looked good.
Perhaps it was unfortunate that Mr.
Watkins should have the impossible task
of filling the room of such a paragon as
Mr. Saul. Even before he appeared on
the scene, there was an unspoken pre-
judice against him —that was only natural,
for everyone knew that there was only the
one Mr. Saul. When Mr. Watkins did
appear, the prejudice was found to be
uncommonly well conceived. Mr.
Watkins was not a bit like Mr. Saul, nor
did he seem to have the slightest ambition
ever to be so.
Again, it was a pity that it should be
so.
MR. WATKINS was forty, and fit-
looking, Very fit-looking really.
Once he had played inter-State Rugby—
and it was often said he should have
played international. Now he looked fit
enough to play still—a trifle gone to flesh
maybe, but not overmuch so.
The staff at Eugenore, strangely enough,
was wholly pleased with Mr. Watkins,
and, even more strangely still, had not
been pleased with
Mr. Saul. There
is no accounting
for the fads and
fancies and likes
and dislikes of
staffs. Mr.
Watkins called the
staff together on
taking over, and
briefly said “I
will try to do a
fair thing by you,
and I will expect
the same from
you.” Just that.
But he seemed
capable of carry-
ing out both sides
of such an
arrangement. The
staff trusted him.
However, there is attached to every
school, where it is at all possible, a local
body of semi-official or sub-official
nature, called the Parents and Citizens’
Association. Its activities are defined and
limited by certain regulations, so that the
actual control and management of the
school are outside its powers. But at
times the exact line between those things
that the teacher should do and what the
P. & C. might concern itself with is not so
easy to see. A somewat similar trouble,
you might remember, existed in the
Middle Ages over the powers of Church
and State. In most cases, commonsense
and good feeling, rather than depart-
mental rules, settle the boundary.
In Eugenore, in Mr. Saul’s time, there
had been no friction, though a
a member of Mr. Saul’s staff had
complained bitterly, “That blasted P, & C.
just about runs this place.” If iti did, at
least it brought in bountiful funds for the
purchase of pictures, typewriters, floor
coverings for offices, prizes and whatnot.
It vexed its soul and teased its energies on
drinking facilities for the infants
(“Bubblers for the infants” had become a
sort of slogan), and a grand septic-tank
for all departments (“The barbarity of
pans” was the neat catchcry coined by
Mr. Golden).
Perhaps at times it did glance sharply
at certain teachers, and did criticise their
methods and conduct, and did look to
Mr. Saul for redress.
Prominent members of the P. & C.
frequently visited the school, and were re-
garded by the staff as an unauthorised
inspection committee, under whose gaze
the staff writhed.
In less than a week Mr. Watkins had
summed up the situation, but discussed
it with no one. The following Tuesday
evening was the usual monthly meeting.
Mr. Watkins suggested to the staff that
they might go along—they were entitled
to do so as members, though no teacher
could hold any office in the association.
The staff had never before been invited to
the meetings. Mr. Saul had somehow
discouraged their attendance
THE meeting was held, and the
majority of the staff came along.
The P. & C. was there in force, and hardly
veiled its hostility to the presence of such
members of the staff.
The atmosphere was said to be
“strained,” whatever that meant.
The chairman, Mr, Walter Golden,
welcomed the new head in the usual
stereotyped terms, and expressed pleasure
at seeing so many of the staff present.
Mr. Golden was a grocer, and a “fringe”
politician. He was fat and prosperous
and slightly greasy. Though not
altogether in the physical sense, you
understand. He had trained his big
mouth to smile on almost every occasion,
though his little dark eyes didn’t smile at
all. He was a member of the town
council, had for one year been deputy
Mayor, and was not without hopes of
securing selection for the next elections,
for the State Parliament. He made, with-
out overmuch complaint, considerable
sacrifice of. Valuable time and energy in
attending to the affairs of the P. & C.
Mr. Watkins had of course to acknow-
ledge the wel-
come. He did so,
and hoped for
continued cordial
relations. He
gently intimated
that the running
of the school
would rest en-
tirely with him.
“There is scarcely
need,” he said, “to
mention such a
self-evident neces-
sity.” Perhaps he
shouldn’t have
mentioned it at
all, for certain
implications were
conveyed. The
meeting eyed him
narrowly, and
two stout ladies even stopped knitting
that they might the better concentrate
upon him.
When he finished, the Mrs.
Hodson, a thin, sharp lady, whose mind
was all prickles and spines, said, if she
were in order to say it, that she would
like to say that no one more than herself
desired peace and amity and smooth and
harmonious relations (in all of which
desired things her looks rather belied
her).
But she would say, as she had said
many times before, as they all could
very well recollect, that a P. & C. must
stand for such relations, and the Eugenore
P. & C. had stood for them, and Mr.
Golden had always furthered them, and
so had the committee, and so had the
body of self-sacrificing and disinterested
members, and in her own humble way
she had done her best, too (hear, hear!)
and Mr. Saul had done so, too (more
hear, hears!) and she could see no reason
at all why such relations shouldn’t be
continued, and they would be as far as in
her lay, and she knew that she was
perfectly right in saying that such was the
feeling of every member present; and
their association was as live and en-
thusiastic and self-sacrificing a body as
you could find anywhere, and the school
was a flourishing concern, and the credit
of that should go to Mr. Saul, and the
harmonious relations he cultivated, (hear,
hear!) ; and she wouldn’t take up their
time, and she knew they would understand
without her saying anything at all, and
she would like personally to welcome Mr.
Watkins, and she
hoped his time in
Eugenore would be
pleasant and happy.
She sat down and
looked like a vic-
torious and virtuous
perpendicular line
above the plane of
the table.
Mr. Watkins just
said, “I thank you
sincerely,” and the
two stout ladies made
an uncertain and
tentative resumption
of their knitting.
General busi-
ness was entered
upon. It was much
and varied, and many
craved the indul-
gence of “a few
words,” and spoke
for five minutes, ten
minutes, fifteen
minutes. There were
dances to arrange,
committees to
appoint, and depu-
tations to the local member and even
to the Minister himself. There were
instructions to the secretary to advise the
department on this and request on that.
The bubblers and the septic-tank were
again bitterly referred to. Every point
was debated and thrashed out with a
keenness that might well be imitated by
national Parliaments and international
conferences.
Mr. Porter, a young, slim dark-
complexioned man, with a keen face and
piercing eyes, spoke to, on, for or against
everything. He was aspiring to local
leadership and found the P. & C. very
good practice.
Someone raised the question of
supplementing the first-aid equipment at
the school, and gave many instances of
accidents, at the school recently, anciently,
in other parts of the town altogether, in
other towns of the State, and in other
States and other parts of the world, all
as illustrating the urgent need of adequate
equipment. He was supported by others
who quoted like lists of even more terrible
accidents with even more terrible results —
all of which could have been averted by
good supplies of first-aid materials.
Then Mr. Spong, whose face was like a
genial full moon, arose and said he didn’t
care what it cost, nor how much it cost,
or what the expense might be, but he
would himself supply all that was needed,
and bring the kit up-to-date. Then Mr.
Spong sat down amid loud applause.
When pictures were discussed, Mr,
Spong arose, and said he didn’t know
what they were worth, or whether they
were very good or very bad, but whatever
they were worth or weren’t worth he
would give the school two watercolors
and one oil from his own sitting-room.
More applause, and Mr. Spong sat down.
Apart from such numerous contribu-
tions in kind, Mr. Spong never entered
into debate. To the association he re-
presented silent strong philanthropy. This
high opinion was not shared by his
family nor his business connections.
MR. WATKINS, in the main, said very
little except when his opinion was
deferred to. Proceedings dragged on and
on, and yet he felt, that the meeting was
waiting for something beyond, all that
had been discussed. It came at last.
Mr. Soilings, a man of some weight in
the life of the town, and an auctioneer of
stainless record, rose to speak, and the
stout ladies laid their knitting in their laps.,
“Mr, Chairman, may I bring up a
matter of vital importance to us all?”
“What is it, Mr, Soilings?”
“I know my place, Mr. Chairman, and
I know the constitution of these associa-
tions.”
“Yes, Mr. Soilings?”
“What I want to know is how far
religion and politics should be mixed
with school work?”
“That is very vague, Mr. Soilings. I
think departmental regulations and the
general syllabus
really answer your
question.”
“Not quite, Mr.
Chairman. Not
quite. If we have a
definite cause of
complaint under the
heads 1 have men-
tioned, there must be
some way and some
place to voice the
complaint.”
Eyes turned, with
some slanting of
heads and a polite
hiding of such move-
ments, in the direc-
tion of Mr. Heydon,
the teacher of history
in the secondary
department of the
school. He was a
youngish man, spec-
tacled, mild-looking
and turning grey.
Under the battery of
eyes he moved a
trifle nervously, and
looked at Mr. Wat-
kins. Mr. Watkins
just stared before him, noncommittally,
his long slit of a mouth closed tight in a
kind of smile.
Mr. Soilings felt encouraged. He had,
he knew, the association behind him, and
it didn’t look as though much opposition
would be arrayed against him.
“Mr. Chairman, I hope I know my
place, and would I be in order if I made
a definite complaint against a teacher in
the high school who has said things in his
history lessons that offend all right-think-
ing people. He said”
Mr. Watkins rose: “Mr. Chairman, a
point of order! That gentleman who just
spoke is making his complaint in the
wrong place. For his information —the
matter cannot be dealt with here. This
body is not competent either to raise the
matter or discuss it.”
Theare was no gainsaying that. Mr.
Soilings, flushed and angry, was commenc-
ing with —“In Mr. Saul’s time” but
the chairman had perforce to rule him
out. Mr. Soilings muttered to himself or
those about him something to the effect
of “Well see! Well, well see!”
The meeting was closed soon after.
IT wasn’t a good start at all for Mr.
1 Watkins. Certainly he had the staff
with him, and the children generally liked
him—for what that was worth. But he
had antagonised a large and influential
part of the town. Not the very rarified
part certainly, for that sailed serene above
such petty matters as State schools.
Mr. Golden had at first to be circum-
spect in his attitude towards Mr. Watkins
for much of this attitude would
naturally depend on whether Mr. Watkins
dealt at his shop for groceries or not.
When it was clear that the Watkins
business was going to Slade & Co. —the
town’s big general store —Mr. Golden’s
mind and attitude were firmly fixed.
“And that goes,” said Mr. Golden
very ominously to Mr. Soilings, “for the
bowling-club as well.” Then he added
as an afterthought “And the Eugenore


club, too!” Apparently Mr, Soilings had
reached the same conclusion —“Wally,
you’re saying it!”
But Mr. Watkins wasn’t a bowls
enthusiast. Certainly he paid a courtesy
visit to the green in response to a courtesy
invitation. He didn’t find undue warmth
beneath the usual politeness of such
occasions. He didn’t go again. He
never went to the town club at all. Worse
still, he didn’t seem to have any aspira-
tions or ambitions to belong to the right
set.
The first real shot against Mr. Watkins,
however, was fired by a member of the
lower class (second top-grade), Mr. Ogden,
the third-best butcher. Since there were
only three .butchers, “third-best” was a
charitable way of describing him. Mr.
Ogden was a beefy, red-faced, violent
man, who seemed to enjoy cutting-up
meat, or slapping chops with a cleaver.
The Watkins custom went to O’Shea, the
second-best butcher, who was greatly
hated by Ogden on personal, business
and religious grounds. Some of these
feelings were now transferred to Mr.
Watkins.
Mr. Ogden had a son in the top class
of the district school, and a daughter in
the girls’ school. He began to complain
that they were “not getting on now as
they might,” inferring, as he brought his
cleaver down broadside, slap-slap, on a
thick slab of very red steak, that the
miserable progress of his offspring was
easily accountable to the “new head.”
That was hardly fair in any circumstance.
Then Mr. Ogden, in a tone about mid-
way between a hoarse whisper and a
bellow, disclosed a horrible state of affairs
“up at that there school—two tykes in the
hinfants’, one in the girls’, two in the boys,
two -and a hatheist in the ’lgh.” He
wrapped up the steak as though it was
guiltily aware of his outraged feelings,
and concluded: “Now, I ask you, what
can you expect?”
R. OGDEN’S son, Dick, was a big,
AVI fat, awkward lad of sixteen, with a
big, round, blotchy face, which didn’t
exactly speak of any very high in-
telligence. From about the age of three
onwards his father had flogged him
soundly about three times a week, or
seven times a fortnight, in a praiseworthy
effort to “knock some sense” into him.
In between these regular floggings Dick
was cuffed and kicked in a minor sort of
way, reminders no doubt of the “last” or
the inevitable “next.” Perhaps Dick
profited by his father’s methods of bring-
ing up, but so far the good effects were
not obvious.
At school Dick bore among his fellows
the nickname of “Brisket,” the name being
thoughtfully applied with some reference
to the family’s occupation.
It was Brisket of all people who pre-
cipitated the first row. And it came about
thus: In the first month or so of his
regime, Mr. Watkins held an Arbor Day,
and he and the “top school” planted
fifty new trees in the big playground. In
the two bottom corners two Lombardy
poplars were set. In between were planes,
while the sides were mainly given over to
sugar-gums and brush-box. Mr. Watkins
was very keen about trees. Some time
later he heard a hubbub from the yard,
and, looking out, he saw Brisket chasing,
in a hobbledehoy fashion, another boy,
and slashing at him with a switch. He
went down to investigate and found
Brisket had one of the poplars. Sharp
questioning revealed —“Aw, I just pulled
it up!” and “I didn’t think it mattered
much.”
Mr. Watkins took the poplar and laid
it upon Brisket, on and about those parts
generally deemed most useful for such
treatment. He was quite in the wrong in
doing so, the more in doing it publicly
and with such vehemence. But to do him
credit he didn’t know of the efforts made
by Brisket’s father to “knock some sense
into him.”
For one who had undergone correction
on countless occasions, it was surprising
to hear Brisket howl. In every way it was
a shocking exhibition, and after it was
over Brisket ran home, declaring that “no
one is going to. hit me like that.”
MR. OGDEN was furiously indignant
—certainly no one was going to
knock his kids about and “get away with
it.” He examined the damage, which after
all wasn’t so very bad beyond red marks,
and not nearly up to his own high
standards in such matters. Then he took
off his apron, put on his coat, and left
Brisket in charge of the shop, telling
him if he didn’t keep his wits about him
“he’d learn all about it.”
He entered the playground by the
bottom gate. It was still recess-time, but
he couldn’t see Mr. Watkins about. In a
healthy bellow he inquired: “Where is
that bloody Walkings?”
Boys stopped playing and gaped, or
said “Gee —there’s Brisket’s old man!”
They felt that they were on the verge of
a great drama, and fearfully enjoyed the
feeling, Mr. Ogden advanced, and more
loudly still “Where is that bloody
Walkings?” No one answered.
Perhaps Mr. Ogden didn’t* expect an
answer. He kept on repeating his query,
making it specially fierce where he found
groups of boys. They gaped expectantly
—some of them nodding vaguely towards
the main building.
Mr. Watkins appeared at the main
steps. His appearance was greeted by
Mr. Ogden with a blood-curdling yell. He
advanced on the balls of his feet—there
were gore and death and mutilation in
every movement. The boys stood and
watched. They said nothing to each
other. This was big— too big for
comment.
Mr. Watkins just stood and waited. He
was very calm. Calmness means absence
of fear. Often it means reserves as well.
Mr. Ogden began to bluster even more
violently, Mr. Watkins said very quietly,
“Come this way, if you please.”
He led, with violence breathing fire and v
brimstone at his heels, to his office. He
held open the door, and Mr. Ogden
could thipk of nothing better than to go
in. Mr. Watkins closed the door very
gently, locked it very deliberately and
put the key in his pocket.
Then he turned to a slightly nonplused
Mr. Ogden, and very briefly asked:
“You were looking for that bloody
Watkins, were you not?” Mr. Ogden
almost gaped. “Well, here he is!”
It happened so quickly that Mr. Ogden
might be forgiven for never having any
clear recollection of the sequence of
movements from cause to effect. Suffice,
however, to say that Mr, Watkins’s right
hand shot out with startling expertness,
connected with Mr. Ogden’s jaw, and Mr,
Ogden found himself lying on the floor,
dazed, jarred, shaken and humbled.
“Get up, Mr. Ogden! Get up!” And
there was a blurred vision of Mr.
Watkins standing his full five feet eight
very calm and perhaps slightly smiling.
Mr. Ogden got up. He didn’t feel so
good at all. There was a curious buzzing
in his head. Mr. Watkins spoke earnestly
—“Do you still wish to know where that
bloody Watkirts is?”
Mr. Ogden didn’t seem overanxious
to prosecute inquiries. “Very well, then,”
said Mr. Watkins, “there is really nothing
more to wait for.”
He opened the door, and Mr. Ogden
shuffled out. He didn’t go back through
the playground, but departed by the front.
On the way home Mr. Ogden’s fury—
now of a slaked variety—blended itself
with indignity and wounded pride. To
such an extent that he took it out of
Brisket for “letting me in like that.”
What Brisket had suffered from the
poplar switch was but as nothing to what
happened him now. And to make things
worse it would have to be counted as an
“extra,”' and not part of the regular
allowance.
OF course, the Brisket episode was well
canvassed throughout the town.
Sympathies differed. Many were secretly
pleased that the impossible Brisket had
got what was coming to him (apart from
what his father bestowed on him), but at
the same time would like to see Mr.
Watkins in serious trouble over it. What
had happened to Mr. Ogden in the office
was subject to conflicting narrative, but
in the main it boiled down to a vicious,
premeditated, cold-blooded attack on
“poor old Ogden,” who certainly might
have been “a bit hot under the collar”
when he went up to the school; but
then “Who wouldn’t have been?”
Others sided with Mr. Watkins. “That
Ogden got jyhat be was looking for.”
But in all, whatever happened in the
office, it was clear that Mr. Watkins
could look after himself, and the attempt
to take it out of him physically mightn’t
pay at all. Although Mr. Ogden didn’t
say as much, he heartily agreed with the
finding, and hated Mr. Watkins more
than ever, and cast his mind round for a
more effective way of revenge. A charge
of assault he- didn’t think much good in
the circumstances.
The P. & C. couldn’t help now, even
if it wanted to. Not now. Certain
prominent members of it, however,
advised Mr. Ogden privately. As a re-
sult, he saw the district inspector, who
for a number of reasons was nothing
loath to putting a stick in Mr. Watkins’s
wheel. He listened sympathetically and
hopefully. Yes, the matter must
certainly be investigated. Certainly.
The inspector went up to the school,
and saw Mr. Watkins. He found Mr.
Watkins willing to discuss what had
happened in the yard to Brisket. In this
he acknowledged that he had, in extreme
provocation, acted wrongly. He was
sorry for it. Was there any desire to
take the affair further when .it was really
closed? As to what happened in the
office he would say nothing. He wouldn’t
discuss it. Not unless there was a regular
inquiry. The inspector, who had. not long
before taken his M.A. with a ponderous
thesis in psychology, concluded that Mr.
Watkins had much to hide and was bluff-
ing. He decided to report the matter and
suggest an inquiry.
THE inquiry came off a few weeks later,
and in some ways was disappointing.
The Chief Inspector came up from
Sydney to hold the inquiry. Mr. Ogden,
Brisket, and several witnesses of Mr.
Ogden’s progress through the yard on that
fateful day were present. Unfortunately
for Mr, Ogden, Mr. Watkins had been
ever since particularly sympathetic with
Brisket —having learned a deal in the
meantime of his home life.
Brisket was now only too willing to
side with Mr. Watkins against his father.
He was embarrassing, too, in that he de-
clared the poplar switch hadn’t really hurt
him much, and he had yelled because he
thought it was going to hurt. He de-
livered this haltingly, stammeringly, and
not too convincingly, for although Brisket
had had plenty of practice in lying he had
never acquired any real fluency in it.
‘'Have you still any marks?” asked the
Chief Inspector.
“Plenty!” said Brisket. And without
being invited, he made a display of the
affected parts. There were, as he said,
plenty of marks.
The Chief gasped, “It looks like a case
for the police! ” Mr. Ogden glared.
“Surely,” said the Chief, “that big
bruise on your thigh is not from a poplar-
stick?”
Brisket became almost bright. “Father
kicked me there last week! ”
Mr. Ogden looked as if to say, “There’ll
be more kicks, too, when I get the
chance.”
That really ended the first part of the
inquiry.
THEN the boys who were witnesses
gave their accounts of Mr. Ogden’s
coming through the yard, and the
language he used. After that they were
sent out of the office. Mr. Ogden <then
gave a highly ornamented tale of his
assault. He really used too much
ornament.
“Did you,” asked the Chief, turning to
Mr. Watkins, “strike Mr. Ogden, kick
him as he lay on the floor, and use the
language complained of?”
“I did none of those things, sir!”
The Chief raised his eyebrows. “None
of them?”
“I said none, I mean that.”
“Extraordinary!” ejaculated the Chief.
“You never touched him?”
“I didn’t say I never touched him.”
“Please explain what you did exactly.”
“Well, it was this way: Mr. Ogden
there came across the yard as the boys
have described. I brought him into the
office. He was very excited and saying
things and making threats that I am sure
were quite unlike him. I said, ‘Mr.
Ogden! Mr. Ogden! Do calm yourself!’
Then I put my hand on his shoulder —
just like this —because I was sorry to
see him in such a state, and said, ‘There!
There! Mr. Ogden, do calm yourself!’
And Mr. Ogden did calm himself.”
No, he didn’t remember locking the
door. May have done so, of course. But
didn’t remember. Of course, the scene
was painful to him. Quite possibly he
did lock the door —he couldn’t remember,
however. Mr. Ogden was very excited.
Very. He made threats. Well, Mr,
Ogden did say something about a “punch
on the snout.” Perhaps he didn’t mean
it. He looked very angry. He thought
it well to pacify him. Had no desire to
have trouble with him. He did his best
to placate him. He really patted him on
the shoulder—like this.
Mr. Ogden’s eyes fairly goggled
throughout this examination, and he
seemed to restrain himself with difficulty.
He reiterated the main points of his
testimony, adding to it considerably. He
became less convincing as he proceeded.
His story was far less likely than Mr.
Watkins’s.
There was nothing for it but an open
verdict —there were no witnesses. Charge
dismissed, as it were.
MR. WATKINS, after it was over, was
spoken, to by the Chief, who was a
hard, long, dried-out man, but fair and
4
decent, too. Really, he liked Mr;
Watkins, even if he didn’t quite swallow
the tenderness of the shoulder-patting in
his story. People with square heads and
jaws like bulldogs—even if they were
amiable bulldogs—were not particularly
given to patting infuriated brutes like
Ogden. Secretly he felt pleased that
Ogden had been hit on the jaw—ho
believed that part of the story. Anyway,
he too clearly recalled seeing Watkins sent
off the field—years and years ago—for
slugging a very hefty opponent in an
important match.
But now his had to be the official
view. He intimated that it was very
wrong to flog a boy in the playground.
Also, it was foolish to fall out with the
townsfolk. It was a head’s job to “keep
in” with the townsfolk. He shrugged
his shoulders ever so little—“l know, I
know! But it’s your job just the same.
You are wrong if you quarrel with them.”
Evidently the district inspector had been
giving details of Mr. Watkins’s relations
with the P. &C. “The P. &C. must not
be antagonised. Much of a man’s worth
was reckoned by his skilful way of
handling the P. &C. It could be done—
it had to be done. Mr. Saul managed to
do it admirably.”
Mr. Watkins said he agreed—with the
general principles—but be wasn’t a
crawler. And the Chief said there was no
need to be that.
It had to rest at that.
But there was something else, yet. It
seemed Mr. Watkins had a dangerous
man on his staff. Mr. Watkins said he
wasn’t aware of it —but he was very glad
to hear of it. The Chief looked severely
—at what might be levity. There was no
sign of it.
“You know whom I mean.”
“I’m afraid Ido not. Dangerous? In
what way?”
“Of course, I mean Mr, Heydon
dangerous radical views, indoctrination
and all that sort of thing.”
Mr. Watkins asked to be excused a
moment. In tv a moments he was back
(Continued on page 2*.)
Desert Oak.
Painted on a gem-like sky,
blood-deep sandhill, you tall dark
tribesman, stand with drooping hair,
limbs and body sheathed in bark.
Now your long green drooping hair
sings thin and far; and now, dark tree,
deepening to wake the low
continuous thunder of the sea
fugued with human voices, cries
of birds that winds have caught and
drowned: ,
listening, who has wife or home
or any being save that sound?
Across the groin of the range
that holds the Pigeon Waterholes,
budgerigars through rising waves
of heat swim past in glittering shoals.
Painted on glazed deeps of sky,
in your shade’s black pool you stand,
tall dark tribesman, desert oak,
singer of the burning sand.
>N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.
Pyrrhic Victory.
Winter, Winter, old man, atop running
behind me,
I have no warmth for you, what 1 had
was lost
To Summer, that ardent brother of your*.
Go from me;
I am only chilled the more by your fingers
of frost
Laid in lascivious stealth upon my
shoulder.
I shall not turn back, breathe as you will
by my ears,
I shall not look round though you burn
the flesh from my bones
With your barren fire. Implore with
frozen tears —
They cannot be colder, those drops of
ice from your eyes
Than tears that fell in midsummer from*
my red heart.
Oh there is no terror in me for your*
deadening lust,
what is broken can only be torn apart.
But it cannot be cracked again, and what
has fallen
Can stand on the highest cliff and laugh
at the height.
Therefore, old Winter, look down some
other street
For something hot and whole to break
with your might.
Here’s irony, Winter—l am, I think, your
rival,
So cold am I, so biting, bitter and numb.
There is that about me, that long white
loneliness
Of your snowfields. Winter, here is the
dumb
Existence of Summer’s erstwhile doxy, the
blank
Quietness of a black lake under ice.
Old fellow, you are too strong, possess
me then
If you do not believe me, but you’ll not
want me twice.
• N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING .


Pretty Good Dogs
BY
PETER
BARKER
JT\ FTER tea, they sat around the
f I iron fireplace. Their mother
I patched some overalls beneath the
kerosene-lamp. Ronnie read a
picture-book at her feet. Wally lay on
the floor over by the wall, and listened
to the mice behind the hessian. He heard
their running and their squealing. „ He
heard the sharp teeth tearing at the
hessian. A long time ago, their mother
had covered the hessian with white-paper.
She had used flour-and-water paste, and
now, when there was nothing else to eat,
the mice were eating the wall for the
flour.
As he watched, there was a tearing at
the wall above his head. A small grey
mouse struggled a moment for its balance
in the hole it had made, and then fell to
the floor in front of him. It lay there
stunned for a moment, and he caught it
by its long tail. He held it up, and swung
it backwards and forwards. After a time,
the mouse roused, and the little clawed
feet started scrabbling impotently at the
air.
“What you goin’t’ do with ’im, Wal?”
said Ronnie.
“You put ’im down,” said his mother,
looking up from her work. “You ain’t
goin’ t’ kill any more o’ the things.”
“They ate all our wheat. I oughter kill
’im.”
“They couldn’t ’elp it,” said his mother.
She sighed. “They was just ’ungry, too.”
Their father had not moved. He was
on the far side of the fire, just beyond the
circle of light from the lamp. The fire-
light made red mounds of his cheek-
bones, and deepened the hollows of his
eyes. He looked up at Wally. His eyes
reflected the glow of the fire. He said
nothing, and looked down again into the
coals.
Wally dropped the mouse. It ran
across the bare floorboards to the holes at
the bottom of the wall and disappeared.
Wally listened again to the whispering
behind the hessian. A stick dropped in
the fire. A shower of sparks flew up,
and a few feathery ashes floated out on
to the hearth. Their father cleared his
throat. Their mother looked up at him
quickly.
“Y’ll ’ave t’ take them dogs out to-
morra and lose ’em,” he said. There was
silence for a moment. Ronnie turned the
page of his book, but did not look at the
new one.
“We ain’t got room for ’em in the
truck, and they ain’t big enough t’ run.”
“It’ll seem funny not ’avin’ ’em. Ole
Bid sort of grinned like when she ’ad
’em, as if t’ say, ‘I can’t be ’ere any
more, but I’ll give y’ these t’ carry on f’r
me.’ ”
Their mother said this quietly, not look-
ing up from her sewing.
Their father got up from his chair, and
turned away from the fire. He walked to
the door and looked at the night.
“I’m goin’ down t’ the dam t’ bring in
the cart.” He paused. “Take ’em out in
the momin’ and don’t come back till y’ve
lost ’em.”
He went out, and the doorway was a
light grey against the black wall, until
the door creaked slowly shut.
\ A/ ALLY walked to the fire.
vv “I’m hungry, Mum,” he com-
plained.
« “There’s a bit o’ flour in the tin. Y’
may as well make y’self a damper. We
won’t use it otherwise.”
“I want some, too,” said Ronnie.
Wally lit a candle at the fire and went
out to the kitchen. As he went in the
door, the whole floor seemed to flow out-
wards as the mice ran back to the holes
in the walls. Wally smelt the strong smell
of the mice. He went to the deal dresser,
and took out the flour-tin from the
bottom. He took a crockery basin from
the top cupboard, tipped in the flour and
added some salt from the wooden salt-
holder on the mantelpiece. There were
little black mouse droppings in the flour,
and He picked them out one by one. He
took the basin out to the tank-stand, and
ran in a little water from the tap. He
went back inside, mixing the flour and
water with a fork.
When the mixture was even and thick,
he took a length of fencing-wire that was
hanging from a nail above the stove and
went inside. The basin made a hollow
sound as he put it down on the stone
hearth. He took a lump of the mixture
and moulded it with his hands into a
long strip. He wound this around the
end of the wire and held it just above the
coals of the fire. The dough became
brown underneath, and he twisted the
wire around to cook it on all sides. He
smelt the slight burning of the flour, and
felt in his mouth the tang of His hunger.
When it was cooked, he held the hot
damper and pulled the wire out from the
middle. He broke off half of the spiral
and gave it to his brother. They sat by
the fire with their feet in the hearth, eat-
ing the damper. Their cheeks became
red with the heat and their eyes became
tired from looking at the glow. They
cooked and ate more dampers until the
basin was empty.
‘ 1 D ONNIE! Come on. Ronnie! ”
f Ronnie squeezed his eyes tightly
shut and then opened them. Wally was
over at the window, fully dressed. The
sky outside was pale blue, and the light
golden glint of the sun on the gum-leaves
showed that it was still early morning.
Ronnie got out of bed.
“The kero.-tin’s full of mice,” Wally
said. “Come ’n’ we’ll take ’em out. It’s
a beaut day, ain’t it! ”
When Ronnie was dressed, they climbed
out through the window and went round
to the kitchen. The sun made a big
golden mass over the sandhill behind the
farm. A solitary mallee-root was out-
lined on the crest of the ridge. t They
went into the kitchen. By the dresser was
a kerosene-tin almost filled with water.
Across the top, a pivoted piece of wood
led almost to some cheese, held out across
the water by a length of wire. In the
water they could see the black bodies of
the mice. Wally touched the wooden
bridge. It swung down slowly and dipped
into the water, then swung back to the
horizontal.
They carried the tin outside and across
to the woodheap. Behind the pile of
mallee-roots, they emptied the tin on to
the ground. The water soaked away into
the red sand, and left the wet, hairy mass
of dead mice. A sharp smell came from
them. Ronnie kicked at them. It made a
squelching sound as his foot went into
the heap.
“WilTwe take the tin back inside?” he
said.
“No. Mum said we wouldn’t want it
after today.”
“Well, come on. Let’s go an’ see Peter-
Mike.”
THEY went through the mallee-gums
towards the bam. From a distance,
the barn looked like a huge, squat centi-
pede It had no walls. The roof was sup-
ported by eight posts along each side.
These were unpainted mallee-pine trunks,
gnarled and knotty, and scarred with the
trimmer’s axe. More pine-logs went
across between the uprights to support
*
the roof. Across these, thin gum-boughs
had been laid, and the whole covered
with leaves and red clay, heaped up to
form a thick, rounded roof.
Ronnie and Wally ran into the barn.
The farm machines were tilted against
the posts. The seed-drill was coated with
fine red dust, except for the axles and
joints, which were black with oil. The
harvester was at the back, in a corner.
It was uniformly red with rust as well as
the fine sand. There had not been a
harvest for many years now.
On the other side of the barn was the
big galvanised-iron feed-bin. Beneath it,
two short-haired and completely black
dogs leant out against their ropes towards
the boys.
“Here, Peter-Mike. C’mon, boy. C’mon,
ole sons. Pete . . . Mikey . . . C’mon.”
They called and whistled while the two
dogs convulsed their whole bodies and
whimpered in an ecstasy of welcome.
Ronnie and Wally knelt by the dogs.
They felt the shiny black hair, and
beneath it the smooth movements of the
muscles. The dogs tumbled madly over
each other and between the boys, red
tongues always licking, stumpy tails
wagging. One ear of each was bent over,
showing the soft defenceless purple of the
inner side.
“I wonder which one’s Mike?” said
Ronnie.
“I dunno. They ain’t got nothing t’ tell
’em apart.”
“But one ’f ’em’s yours, ’n’ the othery’s
mine. What if only one ’f ’em finds ’is
way back.”
• “We’d toss up f’r whose Vs t’ be. Any-
way, Dad’d only make us lose ’im again.”
They heard the rattle of a spoon inside
a kerosene-tin from the house.
“We’re goin’ t’ breakfast now, Peter-
Mike ...”
“ . . . We’ll take y’ out afterwards.”
They looked back at the dogs as they
went out into the sunshine from the
barn. The dogs sat on their haunches
and tilted their heads. One lay down and
put its head on its paws. The boys ran
back towards the house through the
gums. The thin strips of bark crackled
under their feet, and the leaves slapped
against their faces,
AS they went into the kitchen, their
father passed them, going out. They
sat down at the table, and their mother
brought them their porridge from the
stove. Their father had eaten only a
small part of his porridge. His spoon lay
in the hole, and the milk ran slowly in
from the white half-circle at the edge.
Wally poured some milk on to His plate
and started to eat. A spot of milk had
fallen on to the blue-and-white-checked
oilcloth. Wally watched the edges spread
out as he ate. Their mother rattled sauce-
pans at the sink. The kettle sang on the
stove and it seemed like any other morn-
ing.
“Mum,” said Wally, “can’t we stay for
the sale? When’s ev’ryone goin’t’ come?”
“Can’t we get someone to take Peter-
Mike ’ome with ’em? They’ll die out in
the bush.”
“There’s no one about ’ere’d want ’em.
Only two more mouths t’ feed. And
anyway ... y’r father wouldn’t like it.
Their ma and pa was ours, and though
we can’t take ’em, we wouldn’t want
’em . . . ”
Her voice trailed off, and she walked to
the sink, aimlessly. Wally and Ronnie
looked down at their plates.
When they' had finished they went to
the door.
“Here’s y’r lunch,” said their mother.
She went to the dresser and brought over
a small brown-paper parcel.
“Hooroo, Mum,” they said.
“Don’t be too late ’ome, now. We’re
leavin’ early tomorra, don’t forget. And
don’t come in too early. Y’ll only get
in the road at the sale.”
“No, Mum.”
OVER the back paddock the soil was
red and very flat. Sun-dried wheat-
stalks stretched their stunted arms
valiantly towards the light. The stalks
crunched beneath their feet as they
walked. In front of them the horizon
hid away behind a long sandridge. The
dogs ran on ahead of them towards the
fence. The white of the wheat contrasted
strongly with the black of the dogs’ hair.
They climbed through the fence at the
end of the paddock and lifted the dogs
through after them. A flight of parrots
screeched up from among the mallee-
gums in front of them.
“Look, Wally! Let’s ’ave a look f’r
their nests. Might get some young ’uns.”
“Arr. They was only grassies. We
don’t want them.”
They went on through the trees. A
lizard ran down from the warm side of
a tree-trunk to the concealing shade.
Ronnie threw a twig at it and it ran
away among the twigs and bark on the
ground. The two dogs yapped after it
until they lost it in the bewildering bark
patterns.
They came out from the trees at the
foot of the sandhill. As they came into
the open a rabbit started from in front
of them and ran erratically to the honey-
combed burrows at the edge of the sand.
The four ran after it, but it gained a
burrow and the dogs snuffled impotently
at the sandy holes. They went on up the
sandhill. The side was waved and
furrowed with wind patterns. At the
top the sand was corniced to a sharp,
overhanging edge. The boys threw the
dogs over and then scrambled up them-
selves. The red sand fell down in smooth
runlets across the patterns. They sat on
the top of the hill and looked across
the trees and across the flat paddock
towards their farm. All they could see
were the line of trees behind the barn
and a thin string of smoke above, the
trees. Away to the far side the sand-
hills mounted above the clinging gums.
“See thaty over there, Ronnie? It
looks like Uncle Andy’s head. The trees
are ’is ’air, see?”
They ran down the gentle slope on
the far side of the hill. They turned
somersaults in the soft sand and rolled
over and over downhill. The dogs leapt
over and among them and they all
finished in a heap at the bottom. They
rolled the dogs in the sand and scratched
the soft skin of their stomachs. The
sand was warm with the increasing
strength of the morning sun. They shook
the sand from their clothes and went on
through the trees.
AFTER a time the brown of the
mallee-gums changed to grey of a
stretch of belars. These were tall trees
with strong main trunks and thin, spiky
leaves. The blue-grass and saltbush
between the trees showed that the narrow
stretch was a natural water seepage.
The crystals on the saltbush thumped
against their legs as they moved in among
the belars. The dogs ran ahead and
showed above the bushes only when they
lifted their heads and looked back to
see if the boys were following. As they
went on two galahs rose from a dead
tree ahead. They circled slowly upwards,


with Mr. Heydon. The Chief wasn’t
pleased—really this Watkins was im-
possible in some ways. In a subtle way,
too, he was taking charge of proceedings.
“Now,” said Mr. Watkins to the rather
nervous Heydon. “Your name has been
mentioned. The Chief Inspector avers
it has been said that you are a dangerous
your lessons indoctrinate. It
seems that you should be present to hear
what is said.”
Mr. Heydon shifted uneasily and
glanced at the Chief. Mr. Watkins
looked at the Chief as if to say—“We are
ready—begin!” The Chief felt at a dis-
advantage and he realised that he would
have to be very careful. He spoke in
very nebulous generalisations. Mr.
Heydon became more confident —“But
someone said that I was dangerous—how,
dangerous?”
“Well—er—perhaps the word is some-
what overstatement.”
“It surely is—buf I have a right to
know who employed it?”
The Chief said he couldn’t divulge such
information. In which case, Mr. Heydon
strongly hinted, the information, or mis-
information, should not be used at all.
Altogether, the Chief was not over-
pleased with his visit to Eugenore.
THE Ogden inquiry was of course
much discussed throughout the town.
It had to be admitted that Mr. Ogden
didn’t come out of it with any colorable
imitation of victory, nor could it be said
that Mr. Watkins really gained much in
the way of better standing in the
community.
Perhaps the chief gainer was Brisket
himself, who came to look on Mr.
Watkins as a friend, whom he often now
embarrassed with his clumsy offers of
help. In a dim sort of way Brisket was
sorry for Mr. Watkins, especially over the
poplar-switch episode, for strange as it
may seem, he knew that Mr. Watkins was
heartily ashamed of that notable ex-
hibition —and hadn’t known of the regular
whalings Brisket got at home.
The P. & C, generally, its executive in
particular, fairly seethed with rage over
the whole business. In its heart it longed
to “get the wood” on Watkins—some-
thing solid and disgraceful. Officially,
however, relations were, in the words of
Mrs. Hodson, harmonious. At least on
the surface, Mr. Golden spoke to some
that he was thinking of resigning the
presidency of the P. & C.; but, thinking
again of a few breaking their necks for
the presidency, he’d be damned if he
would. Mr. Soilings, like the rest, was
circumspect. Mr. Porter, who hoped to
be on the committee at least next year,
still spoke very ably to and on and for
and against. Mr. Spong was still silent
unless he could give something urgently
needed —whatever it might or might not
cost.
The meetings were strongly formalised,
and what brightness there was only that
of thin winter sunshine. Mr. Ogden
attended the meetings, not that he spoke
at all, but he was always hopeful that
something might happen. Mr- Ogden’s
stocks had fallen lower even than those
usually possessed by a third-best butcher.
Stories of his treatment of Brisket were
too well-known. Still, Mr. Ogden
carried on what is generally known as a
“whispering campaign,” that is, as far as
one with the vocal arrangements of Mr.
Ogden could whisper.
~r HEN Mr. Watkins got his hair
1 cut one Tuesday morning at half-
past eleven. Ten minutes after he had
been seen going into Clem Gorrey’s
saloon, Mrs. Hodson was speaking over
the ’phone to the district inspector. The
D.I. hurried up to the school in his car,
“to catch” the culprit off duty. And he
“caught” him. The matter, of course,
was reported—with the necessary
trimmings. It was really very foolish of
Mr, Watkins to be caught that way.
Mr. Watkins was seen going into
Riley’s Court House Hotel. Twice, Not
in school hours. But Riley’s! And he
had used language unbefitting—words
and phrases all ready for quotation.
Mr. Watkins had shown scant courtesy
to the Methodist clergyman during
religious instruction, and had even put
Mr, Heydon on police duty in the class-
room when the good man was giving the
children their spiritual food. He had
bluntly told the clergyman that he
couldn’t keep order, and had used the
expression “hell’s delight” to describe
some inevitable disorder when the Word
of God was being relayed.
When parents went to see Mr. Watkins
he mostly was polite ; which just went to
show how cunning he was. At the same
time he “had it in for” and “took it out
of” the children of certain parents. Mr.
Soilings’s boy Peter had been given the
grandfather of a hiding—simply because
he was Mr. Sollings’s boy. It was that and
nothing else. Peter was such a good boy,
and very clever too, Mr. Soilings said.
Mr. Watkins told little Nita, Mrs.
Hodson’s pretty girl, that she mustn’t tell
untruths. As if Nita would tell a lie! He
showed no respect at all to Mrs. Golden’s
twins —a lively pair of bright lads in the
upper school. Even told them that, if
necessary, he would “tan” them “well and
truly.” “Notwithstanding.” Fancy that!
“Notwithstanding.” That was language
to use to the children of respectable
citizens!
He took the two Foon girls in his car
one afternoon, when he and Mrs. Watkins
were going for a drive after school. Took
them right home nearly two miles away.
Chinese girls! Well, perhaps, it just went
to show.
The tale was much longer than all this,
but enough and more than enough to
justify strong and deliberate action.
A MONSTER petition was got up
to beg the department in its goodness
to Shift Mr. Watkins, A petition of the
sort is always an interesting matter. It is
in its way the inverse of the process of
slaying dragons and wicked giants by
brave knights. And it is a lot safer. The
majority of people who sign petitions do
so out of no very deep convictions —just
to oblige someone, or get rid of someone,
or to be in the fashion.
“Here, before you go!” Mr. Ogden
would say. “You’d like to sign this, I’m
sure. Everybody is doing it.”
“What is it?”
Mr. Ogden lowered his voice through
several gradations.
“A petition!” He bobbed his head
significantly in the general direction of
the school. “You know! And it’s about
time, too, if you ask me,”
From a cubbyful of disordered papers
and accounts, he brought forth the
petition with a host of neat or scrawly
signatures upon it, and slight impressions
of fingerprints in blood or suet.
“Sign here. Here’s a pen!” And he
pointed to next line with* a stubby fore-
finger. 1. r
It was the same at a number of other
shops—especially at Golden’s, where the
signing was done a bit more circumspectly
than at Ogden’s. In other ways, too, the
petition was filled, even by judicious
house canvassing.
There were rows over the business —
some quite nasty rows, and a number of
entirely extraneous matters obtruded
themselves, matters that might well have
been left in their fancied obscurity and
secrecy. There was not lacking a deal of
support for Mr. Watkins, but it mostly
came from the “wrong sort, now.” An
irate old gentleman who was most mis-
takenly asked to sign the petition at
Ogden’s shop took nearly half an hour in
reading the petition and names through
—going to the doorway for better light.
When he had read it all he tore the
petition into long strips, and the long
strips into little squares, and threw the lot
at Mr. Ogden—“ That’s what I think of
you and your petition. And your tough
meat!” ♦
Mr. Ogden had to go through the
whole process and work of preparing
new sheets and getting the names afresh.
To save time he filled in a lot of the sig-
natures himself. In this he preened him-
self greatly on his originality, quite un-
aware that the device had been employed
on quite a number of historic occasions,
AT this stage a complication arose, and
one that had no historical precedent.
Mr. Ogden had just passed the petition to
Mr. Jerry Still, the blacksmith, when Mr.
Watkins came in. Mr. Ogden made all
manner of signs to Mr. Still to put the
petition out of sight. Mr. Still didn’t
seem to understand the hints —or perhaps
he didn’t want to understand. Mr.
Watkins, who of course knew all about
the petition, did understand. He greeted
Mr, Still, with whom he was on friendly
footing, and said- —“May I see? Ah, yes,
it’s the petition!”
He took out his fountain-pen, and
declared that he could never resist signing
petitions—when the cause was worthy.
He signed—in red ink —and in letters
nearly an inch high, attaching his Uni-
versity degree—he was a distinguished
graduate—and his position of head-
master of Eugenore district school.
Whatever was implied by Mr. Watkins’s
signing of the petition for his own re-
moval, they were far beyond the un-
ravelling of Mr, Ogden. Nor was the
position clearly understood by the other
leaders of the movement. There was an
idea of abstracting the page with Mr.
Watkins’s signature on it; again, of
letting the whole thing drop. Finally, it
was decided to send the petition along as
it was, with that flaring red-inked name of
Watkins upon it.
PERHAPS it was that red ink that did
the trick. Certain it was that Mr.
Watkins very soon after got his transfer—
to a city school. He didn’t seem at all
grieved to go. And the influential part
of the town was able to plume itself on
a most signal victory.
In Mr. Watkins’s place came Mr.
Hedley Silt, who knew exactly how to
sustain all those harmonious relations so
beautifully described by Mr. Hodson.
Mr. Silt proved in every way the desired
contrast to Mr. Watkins, and a fitting
successor to Mr. Saul. The short regime
of Watkins was but an interregnum,
bitterly remembered it might be, but
only as a very bad dream. The town
was able to resume that forward marcn
“along the road of true education.
grey backs and red breasts against the
deep blue of the sky.
“Look, Ronnie, I bet there’s a nest
in that tree. Might be some eggs.”
‘Tt’d pretty late f’r eggs.”
“Let’s ’ave a look. Give us a bunk
up.”
Wally hugged the tree-trunk and
Ronnie took his foot and lifted. Arms
and legs about the trunk, Wally shinned
up until he could reach a bough and
then scrambled the rest of the way to
where a big branch had broken off and
left a hole in the trunk. He broke a
stick from a branch near him and poked
it into the hole. A thin squawking came
out from the darkness. He put his hand
in and felt the rough wood, then the
matted sticks and leaves of the nest, and
inside that the warm, soft, downy lining.
His fingers touched naked skin, and he
felt the vibration of the screeching, and
the straining of the body. He took out
one of the birds and held it up to show
to Ronnie.
“Look, Ron. It’s just" a midge. No
good takin’ ’em yet.”
The small bird lay helpless in his hand.
He could almost see the working of
organs in the big bloated stomach. The
big claws on the thin legs scratched at
the palm of his hand. The big, blind
head strained back and the curved yellow
beak opened wide with the agony of
its mother-call. Wally put it back gently
into the nest. He climbed down to the
bottom bough, swung for a moment and
then dropped. They looked back when
they reached the other side of the belars.
The two galahs were settling slowly down
from the blue towards the white limbs
of the dead tree,
WHEN the sun was high in the sky
and the heat struck down strongly
on their heads, they came out from the
trees to a paddock. Over on the far
side a dam channel followed the contours
of a ridge. They ran across through the
stubble towards it.
“Look, there’s water in it, Ronnie,
They must be pumping.”
The banks of the channel were green
with couch-grass and at each side the
thin tendrils of “tobacco” plants inter-
twined ungainly limbs.
“Let’s eat our sandwidges ’ere, Wal.”
Wally took out the parcel from his
shirt and opened it on the ground. The
two dogs stretched out their necks
to sniff at the sandwiches. The
boys sat down and shared the big slabs
of bread, spread with dripping or jam,
with the dogs. When they had eaten
they lay down on the grass, and drank
with their faces in the water. They lay
back for a few moments in the warmth
of the sun.
“Ronnie.”
“Yeah?”
“We’d better be headin’ back,”
“Yeah.”
Wally splashed at the water.
“We’ll ’ave t’ leave Peter-Mike some-
where, and we can’t tie ’em up. ' Let’s
take ’em across the channel. * They won’t
swim back, I don’t think.”
“Mm,” said Ronnie.
“C’mon, then.”
THEY undressed, and taking the dogs
up in their arms went down the
slippery mud of the bank into the water.
The water rose to their chests and they
danced across on tiptoe, gasping with
the chill. They scrambled up the far
bank and ran about to get warm again.
The dogs danced between them. When
they were warm they went into the water
again and out where their clothes lay
on the bank. The dogs crept down to
the mud at the water’s edge and sniffed
at the water, then looked across at the
boys and waited. Ronnie and Wally
dressed quickly, before they were dry,
and then stood at the edge and looked
back at the dogs.
“We can’t ’elp it, Peter-Mike. We was
told t’.”
“We’ll come back’n look f’r y’ some
day when we’ve got another farm.
“Hooroo, Pete-oh.”
“Hooroo, Mikey.”
The dogs whimpered and ran up and
down the bank, then came and sat down
opposite the boys.
Ronnie sniffed, and sniffed again. He
looked down at the yellow water. The
channel flowed on quietly and stretched
in a long sweep around the curve of the
ridge. On each side the white stubble
reached to the low line of trees over the
fence. Behind them the sandhills rose
irregularly bare above the trees, and
above them the blue mass of the sky
hung limply in the silence.
“C’mon,” said Wally.
They ran quickly across the paddock
towards the fence.
“Wally,” panted Ronnie, “they might
swim across. Hadn’t we better wait an’
see?”
Wally stopped and turned back. The
dogs were outlined on the crest of the
ridge. Their thin whining sounded across
the paddock. The boys went back
slowly, calling:
“Mike. C’mon, boy, Peter-Mike.”
The dogs ran down eagerly, but
stopped at the edge. Wally and Ronnie
called uncertainly from the other side
of the channel.
| NSIDE the barn it was very dark in
' contrast to the white moonlight outside.
They sat beneath the feed-bin on the
warm straw. The dogs sighed con-
tentedly, heads against the boys’ legs.
Behind them in a tree a bird fluttered its
startled protest against the night. Now
and then the trees rustled with a half-
hearted wind. Away through the trees
they could see the yellow glow of the
lamplight in the house. The sky was a
deep velvet and the smoke from the
chimney a child’s finger-smudge across
the purple. They heard the sounds in
the house, a rattle of plates and the
wooden resonance as their mother
knocked the crumbs off the breadboard
with a knife. Someone crossed the light
and afterwards came the slow squeak of
the kitchen door’s closing.
“We’d better go in, Ronnie.”
“Mm... What’ll we say?”
“I dunno. Say they wouldn’t leave
us Sav we took ’em across a channel
an’ they swum over after us.”
“All right.”
They went out into the moonlight. The
ground was a dead white and bark and
tween stepped between
the shadows and came up past the wood-
heap towards the house. The truck was
outside the kitchen door. It was piled
high with furniture. They went past it
and into the kitchen.
Their father was at the table eating.
Their mother carried a cup of tea to him
from the stove. She looked at them as
they came in.
“You’re pretty late. We was just goin’
out t’look f’r v’.”
Their father stopped their replies.
“Did y’ lose them dogs?”
“We took ’em across a channel t’ lose
’em ’n’ they swum back,
“They kept follerm us.
Their father got up from the table. He
went into the bedroom and came out with
the shotgun-case. He left the door
swinging as he went out into the dark
Y a f d - „ . , . , , . „
“Well, sit down and ave y r stew,
Wally and Ronnie sat at the table and
listened. Their mother brought them
their food and went and stood by the
stove. She was listening, too. The
silence lasted a long time.
U/ALLY looked up. His father came
VV into the light of the* room- His
eyes glistened with the lamplight He
put the shotgun in the corner and sat
down again at the table. He ate some
more of the stew.
Their mother said from the stove ?
“We c’n stop at Harrises an let em
’ave them chairs they wanted. Reckon
the kids c ’ n walk down there Wlth the
dogs.”
Their father grunted.
“ Pr( * ty g ? od dogs ’ f ll .? 56 ”, he ,r ald *
“They’ll be ’andy round the place.


fds
No. 6 of a
Series
'lt must be the BEST", has
been the Ronaldson-Tippett
policy lor nearly fifty years.
This policy has become a
tradition which commenced
with the production of the
famous Kerosene Engines, fol-
lowed through with the early
Petrol and Diesel Engines up
to the production of the latest
h.p. Diesel Engine pictured
here, which found ready ac-
ceptance everywhere.
Such goodwill can only be
built by providing a sound
product . . . that is why Ron-
mm
mm.
Wfh~Si
aldson-Tlppett can serve you best, as they have served
thousands of others, by building an Engine famed for
its reliability, economy and long life.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: Ballarat, Victoria. Showrooms: 628 Bourke St., Mel-
bourne. V.S'.Ty. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd., 42
Bridge St., Sydney. Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.)
Pty., Ltd., Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
ROIURIDSON-TIPPEIf]
ENGINES ' J
EXECUTOR-
TRUSTEE -
ATTORNEY
mo*
N *nit
the
*hees
**i»u
[This booklet explains wKere
you stand
Before you accept the responsibilities of executorship, you
should know where those obligations begin and end. Ihe
same precaution is essential before you appoint y°ur ° ,
executor. After you have read the new edition °*
That Never Leave the Wheel,” you will realise why
Burns Philp Trust Company Limited can be of great
service to you and your family.
A complimentary copy of this booklet will be forwarded
on application. If you care to call, a senior officer mil l
readily available to discuss important matters with you.
DIRECTORS:
ss l, ft jssxuz
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament
Head Office; 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TEL. BU 5901
BOX 543, G.P.O.
nnifi. Aft
THE SERVICE MAN
The Real Defence Line.
“Ek Hum”: The announce-
ment of Mr. Acheson, United
States Secretary of State, that the
United States will defend the
Aleutians - Japan - Ryukyu -
Philippines line has been
accepted by the Press as some-
thing entirely new.
In fact, it dates from the end
of the war and was the subject
of announcements during last
year.
One of the most interesting
facts about the strategy is that
it stops short at the Philippines
area. Nothing has been said
about defending the Australian
line to the death, and it is a sub-
ject about which Australians
should have no delusions. Aus-
tralia for a time was important
to the United States, as to the
other great allies of the West,
but only because the bases of
Malaya, and particularly the
Philippines, were gone and be-
cause the Pearl Harbor disaster
had temporarily dislocated U.S.
Naval power and plans.
So soon as planning really got
under way, Australia was merely
regarded in the military picture
at large as an outpost supply-
base, the New Guinea and Solo-
mons campaigns as incidental to
the main attacks. The axis of
the American approach was well
north of the Equator, and pro-
vided an Asian war can be con-
tained most of the will,
in the next outburst, be* well
north of the Equator again.
In the last war the main cam-
paigns which defeated Japan
were the Philippine invasion, the
sea battles north and east of the
China sea, the land battles
which captured the Japanese
mandated islands and the Burma
campaign.
A close study of the strategy
of World War II in the Pacific
shows how little Australia actu-
ally is in Asia, despite the efforts
of Messrs. Evatt and Spender to
remould geography.
Europe’s Importance
It also shows how vital to
Europe, which belongs to the
same land mass, is in an Asian
war and vice versa. It is in-
conceivable that any war will
ever take place on a world scale
for many years to come in which
Russia, the only aggressor pos-
sible, does not strike with her
greatest forces against the fronts
which she can reach most
quickly, which has most to offer
her in positive industrial re-
sources, immediately useable,
and most also to offer in denial
of help to other spheres.
There are two areas which
satisfy this specification, the one
the highly-developed and techni-
cally-equipped countries o f
Western Europe, which is cer-
tainly accessible to large-scale
attack, and the North American
continent, which is not so easily
attacked.
Indeed, with its present re-
sources it is more than doubtful
whether Russia could make a
large-scale invasion of North
America at all by air, which is
its only means of transferring
troops in any quantity, unless it
could secure Western European
shipping on a very large scale
and use it.
Russia might, and probably
would, at some stage overrun
India and Pakistan, while the
Chinese took care of Malaya.
But as with most other wars the
basic truth is likely to be that
the battle for the world, includ-
ing Australia, will have to be
fought in Europe,
If our side wins in Europe
then it must ultimately win
everywhere. If it doesn’t, then
the outlook is poor, and Mr.
Spender will find that the Aus-
tralia which he has translated
into Asia has also been trans-
lated into a Soviet sphere. Mos-
cow then will be able to justify
itself when it takes us over by
remarking that the Common-
wealth itself has defined its
geographical position and that
it is only a remnant which must
bow to the great Asian majority.
After which, there will be a little
colonising along what Moscow
considers the right lines.
Australian defence, if we are
to consider ourselves as part of
the British Commonwealth, must
obviously involve agreement to
take part in the defence of those
parts of British Asia which are
considered vital to us. The
British might reasonably ask
what we are doing in that
matter, particularly in the
R.A.N. and in long-distance air-
strike development.
The Real Front-line
The whole Empire position in
defence is pretty precarious.
Australia’s defence scarcely
exists. Canada is on a cadre,
though a very efficient cadre,
_
“Measles or not, the idea's rather catching — eh,
Prendergast?”
basis and is doing a great deal
to develop the small-ship Navy
and to maintain war material
and aircraft building potential.
The British Socialist Govern-
ment has much the same sort of
record as the Australian Socialist
Government.
The defence forces have
steadily dwindled until on Oct.
1 last they totalled 746,000, all
branches, against 769,000 on
July 1 and 785,000 on April 1—
and these figures embrace, beside
normal fighting personnel,
V.A.Ds., nurses and women’s
services and national servicemen,
who account for nearly half the
total force.
The distribution of defence
manpower on October 1 was:
Total. N.S. Men.
Navy ... 141,470 11,700
Army .. 392,000 197,200
R.A.F.. \ 212,000 84,400
The British Commonwealth of
Nations seems to have enough
on its hands at present in plac-
ing the British Empire back on
a stable economic basis under
which the British people do not
have to be rationed to a point
where half of them would be
unfit for service in case of an-
other war. This task is surely
the primary one for everybody
concerned with our own and
British safety, and should have
complete priority over the busy-
bodying which is going on in
Asia, designed to improve Asian
economic conditions. When
British children do not have to
depend on overseas food parcels
to eke out their poor and mono-
tonous diet, it will be time
enough to think of the diet of
peoples whose only desire has
been independence from Britain
and the right to manage their
own affairs while getting all they
can from us.
The first real defence line
which needs to be built up in
the British Commonwealth is in
the stomachs of the British
people.
More About the
Canberra.
Australian aircraft promises to
reach new stages of modernity
in the next three or four years,
though whether all the proposed
activity is to be viewed without
misgiving remains to be seen.
Two months ago it was an-
nounced just before the elections
that it had been decided to set
aside £500,000 for the develop-
ment of an Australian-designed
jet-fighter which an English
aviation journal has described as
bearing “a marked similarity to
the Lockheed XF-90”—a twin-
jet, all-weather attack aircraft.
While it is healthy to see local
design coming to the fore, and it
is something to be encouraged,
it is to be hoped that ambition
in this case will not overstep
capacity at this stage, and that
before designs are laid down
some policy will be achieved as
to what trends are to be fol-
lowed. If we are to develop
U.S. techniques in one part of
the R.A.A.F. and R.A.F. tech-
niques in another there may be
some confusion.
Interchangeability with British
types and the closest possible co-
operation with the R.A.F. con-
sistent with our own conditions
seem to be the need of the
moment. However, the machine
is supposed to be a two-seater,
wings swept back 35 degrees,
pressurised cockpit, ejector seats,
with Nenes in the prototype,
but more powerful jets in the
finished article. At present it is
planned that the new machine
will be beyond the drawing-
board stage in the latter half of
this year.
Meanwhile the Canberra (B.
18/1/’5O), an English Electric
job, has come into the picture.
It is Britain’s first jet-bomber;
Australia’s also —it appeared
publicly for the first time at the
S.B.A.C. display in England
last year, and not too publicly
then.
She has a “fishy” appearance
owing to her lack of bulges and
bumps.
Her dimensions are; Length,
65ft. 6in.; wing-span, 64ft.;
height, 15ft. 7in.; mainplane
root - chord, 19ft., tip - chord,
7ft. Bin.-odd; tailplane span,
27ft. 4.9 in.; tailplane centre-
line chord, 10ft.; tip-chord, 4ft.;
undercarriage track, 15ft. sin.
Her wing area is about 960
square feet gross.
No details about her weight-
carrying capacity or about her
speed and performance are
available,, but on the exhibitions
she has given so far she is
described as “performing like a
fighter.” She has been built with
three types of power unit —the
Rolls-Royce Nene, the Avon and
finally with 'the one which she
is to use in Australian versions,
the Tay, which is a develop-
ment of the Nene, It has
a designed thrust of about
\ 60001 b., so that the two
j* engines give power of
roughly 12,000 h.p. by old
standards.
Pilot and navigator are
carried in a pressurised
cabin right forward of the
wing leading-edge and power-
plant. The tear-drop canopy is
designed to minimise drag. Both
pilot and navigator have ejector
seats. And although cabin-
pressure is controlled automati-
cally, the pilot can vary air-
supply and temperature.
The fuselage is built in three
parts. It is an all-metal mono-
coque of circular cross-section.
One part comprises the pressure-
cabin. The centre includes
bomb-bay and wing fittings and
the third bit comprises the tail
unit. The skin is pinned down
with flush rivetting to trans-
verse frames braced together
with longitudinal stringers.
Positive control in the high
Mach speed realm is handled
with a variable incidence tail-
plane, operated by a high-power
electrical actuator which insures
against reversibility of control
no matter what the speed or
conditions.
Main controls of the aircraft
are push-pull levers and rods.
Engines are mounted mid-wing
and engine changes are easy as
such operations go—just re-
move the detachable cowling
and lift her out with a hoist.
English Electric declares that
the fuel system, which appears
still to be on the secret list, is


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO HEINRICH FRIEDRICH PAHNKE
formerly of “Happy Days” George Street
Springwood and later of near St. Mary’s
N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that PEGGY
PAHNKE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1169 of 1949 on the ground of re-
peated assaults and cruel beatings during
one year previous to the presentation of
the said petition If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 3rd of April 1950 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from A. D. McKENZIE, Solicitor,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.— (l.s.)
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
An Investor?
• Then you certainly cannot afford to be
without The “Wild Cat” Monthly. It
contains the most comprehensive investment
analyses of Australia’s leading companies,
economic reviews and mining notes, presented
in a concise, easy-to-find style that puts all
the facts at your fingertips.
2/- a copy; 22/6 a year, post free.
THE "WILD CAT" MONTHLY
A “Bulletin” Publication
•H£OfS£W£SA
4 •
Kb
%
€
p
j
'k
o
1
&>
Ti.
O
X\
9^
v.-\N
VV.
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
BUILDING LINES
THAT MEET TODAYS SPECIFICATIONS FOR
RIGID QUALITY,.. FIRE SAFETY... MAXIMUM SECURITY
otm a\A fctolWs wm»«®
fHtWWIW-HT
"WATERLOO” STEEL ROLLER SHUTTERS
For cart docks, garages or any openings. Space-saving,
thief-resistant, easy to operate, strong and durable
ROLLING GRILLES
To close an opening without sacrificing passage of air
or obstructing vision.
“WATERLOO” TIN-CLAD DOORS
For fire cut-off purposes between buildings and built to
Fire Underwriters’ specifications.
“METALBILT” FIRE-RESISTING DOORS
Approved by authorities for use on stair enclosures and
lift-wells.
“BANGOR” SLIDING-DOOR TRACK
A type for every class of sliding door, stocked by leading
hardware stores everywhere.
“WATERLOO” STEEL
ROLLER SHUTTERS
BBS
an
□.[ :
BBS
□ □
□□
888
: □
808
□□
□DC
WORMALD BROTHERS
“OVERHEAD DOOR”
Lb- LI
“ESAVIAN” DOOR AND WINDOW FITTINGS
Concertina Closing action. Strong and weatherproof,
WORMALD BROTHERS’ “OVERHEAD DOOR”
Latest type of sliding door. Suspended on springs, these
wooden doors slide up and back along the ceiling.
"ESAVIAN” DOOR AND
WINDOW FITTINGS
mm
“BANGOR” SLIDING
DOOR TRACK
“WATERLOO” TIN
CLAD DOORS
“METALBILT” FIRE
RESISTING DOORS
ROLLING
GRILLES
WORMALD BROTHERS
P T Y • LTD
Fire Protection Engineers since 1889
BTDNHT, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE. TOWNSVILLE MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, HOBART
WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN
“exceptionally easy to handle.”
Nearly everything connected
with it is operated by electric
actuators, and every precaution
has been taken against fire, each
engine-bay being equipped with
a full fire-detector plant.
Near East Air Zone.
“Diplomacy without arms,”
said Frederick the Great, “is like
music without instruments.” The
Anglo-American strategic objec-
tive is to save Asia from being
overrun by Soviet conquerors
—nonetheless conquerors, and
exacting the reward of con-
querors, because they are fight-
ing for the possession of Asia
by arousing armed insurrections
in so-called “democratic” asser-
tion of civil rights or removal
of economic “oppression,”
The American barrier to this
Soviet imperialist aggression—
in form and design indis-
tinguishable from that of last
century under the Tsars—has
been described in the U.S. mili-
tary air-zone constructing from
Alaska, through the Aleutians
and Japan, down to the Philip-
pines. A counterpart to this is
the British military air-zone
represented by the Middle East
Command of the R.A.F. and
extending, as described by the
aeronautical correspondfnt of
the “Times,” from Malta to the
Andaman Islands in the Indian
Ocean and from the southern
shores of Europe to the borders
of Rhodesia.
Five Sub-Commands
“Headquarters are at Ismailia,
in the Suez Canal Zone of
Egypt, and spread around it are
five sub-commands.
“One sub-command is based
on Malta and controls stations
in Tripoli and Cyrenaica, where
there are staging-posts at Castel
Benito, Benina and El Adem,
used jointly by R.A.F. Trans-
port Command and civil air
transport, Malta itself has
Vampire jet fighters for its own
defence and Lancaster general
reconnaissance bombers, whose
main task is co-operation with
the Royal Navy,
“The second sub-command, a
group covering the Suez Canal
area, is a complete air force in
miniature, with squadrons of
every type of aircraft, its own
depots for repair, maintenance,
stores and supplies, and a self-
sufficient air-transport service.
It maintains an advance base at
Cyprus, where there is another
Vampire squadron and first-
class armament training ranges,
and the airfield at Khartoum,
an important staging-post on the
route to East and South Africa,
“The third sub-command is
Iraq. Headquarters here are at
Habbaniya, a vast camp built in
the desert near Baghdad on the
banks of the Euphrates and
served by a large lake suitable
for flying-boats. It has out-
stations at Amman, in the Jor-
dan, Sheibah, Basra, on Bahrein
Island, and Sharjah, and to the
north of Amman a very large
desert airfield is being developed
at Mafraq. Iraq sub-command’s
responsibility extends as far as
Mauripur, in Pakistan, which is
on the route to Singapore and
the Far East.
“The fourth sub-command is
at Aden, where there is the
busy Khormaksar airfield. The
A.0.C., Aden, controls a string
of isolated staging-posts along
the Southern Arabian and Had-
hramaut coasts at Masirah
Island, Riyan and Salala.
Though remote, these are im-
portant because they lie on the
alternative route to Ceylon and
India, Aden also links up with
British Somaliland.
“The fifth sub-command is
East Africa, with headquarters
at Nairobi (which is a stopping-
place on the route to South
Africa) and units at Mombasa,
in Kenya, and Mogadishu, the
capital of Italian Somaliland.”
The centre of this R.A.F.
strategic area is not on British
soil. The Suez Canal zone is
held under a treaty which ex-
pires in 1956. Similarly, the
centre of the American air-
barrier on the other side of
Asia is not on American soil
but in Japan. But Egypt and
the Arab States have as great
an interest in the protection of
British precautionary measures
as the Japanese have for the
time being in the shelter of
American air-power.
The tasks prescribed for the
R.A.F. (M.E.) are to safeguard
British interests throughout the
Middle East; to provide and
maintain staging-posts along the
Empire air routes; and to keep
order. In the event of war it
would assist strategically in the
defence of the United Kingdom
by counter-attacking the aggres-
sor country and bombing mili-
tary production centres and
communications. It would co-
operate with the other services
in protecting sea and air routes ;
and counter any attempt by the*
enemy to encroach on the
Middle East to secure oil and
capture air bases with the ob-
ject of removing the threat to
centres of production.
Next month Italian Somali-
land (just below the southern en-
trance to the Red Sea) is due to
be returned to Italy, R.A.F.
(M.E.) will superintend that
operation, and has been moving
squadrons into Asmara and
Mogadishu to keep order during
the process.
Service for R.A.F. personnel
in these zones is for 30 months.
Some of their quarters are good,
some, in isolated outposts, much
below standard; but there are
many compensations in un-
rivalled training facilities, agree-
able climate, much better food
than at home and opportunities
for every sort of sport and
recreation. Many airmen are
able to have their wives and
families with them on the
stations.
attended by representatives of
“the Ukrainian underground,”
According to these emissaries
guerrilla activities in 1947 were
so threatening that Stalin sent
in two key operatives to clean
them up—one of them the
notorious international Com-
munist Swierczewski, who served
in the Spanish Civil War under
the more tongue-comfortable
name of Walters, and was subse-
quently a Minister in the Polish
“Lublin Government.” He and
his staff were ambushed and
killed by guerrillas in Western
Ukraine. Several Russian divi-
sions were then moved in and
overwhelmed the rebels, who
mostly fled into Carpathian hide-
outs. One unit of them fought
its way to the American zone
of Germany and escaped that
way. Their leader, a Colonel
Khrin, was reported by the
refugees to be still at large and
in command.
Ukrainian Guerrillas.
That all is not well in the
Soviet’s satellite States in Eastern
Europe has been manifest ever
since Moscow’s quarrel with
Tito of Yugoslavia was pub-
lished to the world. Nor is it
solely wishful thinking that
observers (particularly American
observers) have been descrying
rebellious movements within
Russia itself —in the Ukraine.
A good deal of information
about the character of this rebel-
lion has become available (writes
Christopher Buckley in “Time
and Tide”) since the recent con-
gress in Washington of
Ukrainians of American descent.


ifssSw
oj kybt*^
O'CO
Facts you should know in the
interests of your Estate & your Dependants.
The informative booklet, “Trust Estates and Their Management,”
has been compiled to acquaint you with the facts and problems
connected with choosing your Executor and Trustee. This is a
matter which every prudent man must consider at some time. It
is a decision whi’ch vitally affects the welfare of your dependants,
and is therefore one about which every person should be fully
informed.
Write to-day for your copy of this free booklet . . .. or call and
discuss the matter personally with one of our Executive Officers.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H, Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M.,
F.R.A.C.S. J. R. Faviell
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager: C. N. P. Whittle
Sub. Manager: S. U. White
Secretary: F. R. Garland
Pastoral Inspector; Hugh Stewart
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LID.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
f 1.12016
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FRANCE THE KINGPIN
“Altogether a more optimistic
atmosphere pervades French life
today than at any time since
Hitler’s rise to power.”
Thus a keen observer of the
French scene, R. P. Schwarz, in
the course of a London “Fort-
nightly” appraisal. “If optimism
is open to statistical proof,” he
added, “then population statis-
tics should be quoted in evi-
dence.
“A stagnant or a falling popu-
lation does not necessarily . re-
flect a nation’s pessimistic ap-
praisal of its future. Such a
phenomenon may have other
causes. But, conversely, a marked
increase in the population is
certainly not unconnected with
an optimistic outlook. No
doubt higher birth grants and
larger family allowances have
contributed a great deal to this
change, but they do not explain
everything. France, for the first
time since the turn of the cen-
tury, shows signs of a funda-
mental reversal of demographic
trends. These signs may yet
prove misleading, but, in any
case, the French population has
already increased by close on a
million during the last three
years.”
They are signs which, London
“Observer” comment suggests,
most emphatically need to be
right, for the sake of the most
important present requirement in
the world —the cementing of a
Western European defence cap-
able of forbidding any attempt
at aggression. With the agree-
ment on a unified defence plan
for the 12 Atlantic Treaty
partners, signed at the end of
November, the treaty had been
“transformed from a diplomatic
commitment into military and
strategic reality”:
“Now it is up to the peoples
of Western Europe. Their
security is now no longer an idle
dream. They are effectively
combined for defence, and arms
will soon be put into their hands
again [the first instalment of a
$ 1,000,000,000-consignment was
shipped for delivery in France
this month]. But nothing would
avail if they were unable to
shake off the fatalistic defeatism
which the experience of the last
war has bred among them.
“This has a particular mean-
ing for France. France will be
the kingpin of Continental de-
fence, and she will receive the
lion’s share of the American
arms now to be pumped into
Europe. In case of war, France
would of course have increasing
British, American and Benelux
support; moreover, at a later
stage, when her rearmament is
complete, it may be possible to
complement it by the rearma-
ment of a Europeanised Ger-
many. But France is the core
and centre of all this. If, in the
testing hour, she were to fall
down, everything would tumble
down around her.
“Will she be able to revive that
innate mart i a i ta j ent an d spirit
w hich for centuries made her
the leading military nation of the
world? Or has 1940 broken that
spirit for ever? Nobody can
answer these questions with cer-
tainty. But on the answer may
wed one da; y bang the fate of
Western civilisation in Europe.”
On those questions a London
“Times” correspondent lately in
p rance expresses some doubt,
having found that “the stability
that has always been lacking
from French political life is still
absent,” and, he added, “Gone
are the days when the shifting
political background of the
Third Republic was a matter for
Frenchmen alone. What is done
or left undone by the Govern-
ment and Parliament in Paris,
and behind them the people of
France, is now a close concern
of France’s neighbors, friends
and allies. There are many
peo pj e j n p rance today—apart
£ rom suc j l habitual critics of the
regime as the Gaullists—who
feel that the Fourth Republic
and the present mood of the
people of France are ill-formed
to meet the new conditions.”
While, the “Times” man con-
eluded, many would say that
France was doing quite well, and
that her recovery from the effects
of war and occupation is an ex-
ample to all, “Many, however.
will agree that returning pros-
perity has masked other ills of
the body politic, ills which look
larger when seen in relation to
French international obligations
within the Western family of
nations.”
Restless Satellites.
Probably as strong an influ-
ence as even the atom-bomb in
making the Kremlin hesitate
about aggression, and possibly
likely to keep it that way, signs
that the satellite oxen find the
yoke irksome continue to show
up.
They show from time to time
all along the “iron curtain”
fringes; hence the current
purges, the full scale of which
can still only be guessed at. As
a widely typical example, Lon-
don “Daily Telegraph” reports:
“If proof were needed of the
condition of unrest which pre-
vails in Czechoslovakia it would
be provided by the streams of
refugees, some of them of con-
siderable eminence, moving
westwards,, and by the numerous
and continuing resignations
among diplomatic personnel
abroad.
“The seriousness of this de-
velopment from the Czecho-
slovak Government’s point of
view is attested by the severity
pAOtt
mk
V NS
moCh
[Quimi*
FICKLE LADY.
—Baltimore (U.S.A.) “Sun."
of the counter-measures which
have been taken for dealing with
it. Strenuous efforts are being
made to seal effectively the
frontiers with Western Germany
and Austria, and the grant of
new passports is most strictly
controlled, while all existing
ones have been declared invalid,
Without any question, the
.Czechoslovak Foreign Office and
diplomatic service contain ele-
ments hostile to the Govern-
ment’s policy of utter subservi-
ence to Moscow.
“The indisputable fact is that
the Czechs, who have known
what it is to live under free in-
stitutions, are increasingly rest-
less and discontented under the
Kremlin’s heavy and unfamiliar
yoke.”
One aspect of the general
Soviet trouble with its enforced,
supposed or erstwhile followers
which may turn out to be of
quite considerable significance
is to be noted on the “intellectual
Left” in Britain and elsewhere.
The Parlor Pink sector seems
definitely in a dither; its em-
bracing of Tito one striking
manifestation —perhaps even the
Red Dean will one day find
Soviet imperialism and slavery
a little too strong for his
strangely accommodating Chris-
tian stomach.
One who has apparently
adopted Tito as the white hope
of the Pinks is Alexander
Werth (and London “New
Statesman and Nation” with
him). He has given some re-
vealing information on the
Kremlin satellite trouble in his
reports from Belgrade ; stating
in one, for instance:
“According to the Yugoslavs,
the Communist parties of all the
other Eastern countries are
riddled with doubters and un-
happy people, and thousands
who, hard though they try, find
it impossible to agree completely
with the Russian lines of policy.
Even the most blatant ‘hirelings’
like Rakosi are unhappy men,
‘conscious of working against
the interests of their own coun-
try’ ; and although no man was
more loyal to Moscow than
Dimitrov, he died an unhappy
and broken man, the Yugoslavs
assure you.”
“What is interesting,” Werth
has further reported, “is that
Yugoslavia has set herself up as
a beacon for all the malcontents
in Eastern Europe, whether
political or economic. That,
economically, she is not in a
good position to talk is true
enough. But what matters is
that the Yugoslavs are now try-
ing to embarrass the Russians on
all scores, and when they talk
of working-class discontent in
the People’s Democracies they
are touching on a subject which
has, at any rate, potential propa-
ganda possibilities. They are
hitting hard. Most of their
propaganda will not reach
Czech, Polish and Rumanian
ears, but some will; and there
is no doubt that tbe Russians
will have to think of something
better than call Yugoslavia a
‘monstrous country,’ The Yugo-
slavs are, however, pretty con-
fident that the Russians have
got themselves into a frightful
jam, and that they simply have
no answer.”
A Menzies Proposal.
London “Times,” comment-
ing on the proposal made by
Mr. Menzies for an Empire
economic conference on the
grand scale (that is, much more
comprehensive than the Colombo
meeting) and his advocacy of a
vigorous policy of migration
within the British Common-
wealth, said the two had to be
regarded* as complementary:
“By a far-reaching economic
readjustment among themselves,
extending into all the economic
fields of finance, investment,
trade and production and in-
cluding the redistribution of the
producers over the whole im-
perial area to the points where
their labor will be most effec-
tive, the British nations, be-
tween them could, as time
passed, vastly expand their eco-
nomic power.
“The aim would not be a pro-
gramme of exclusion or impos-
sible autarchy. It would not be
to render themselves independent
of the dollar countries, but first
to find out in strictly realistic
terms exactly what they can
profitably and economically
produce themselves and ex-
change with one another, and
what it is economically more
efficient to buy from outside the
Commonwealth.
“Then it would be possible
for the Commonwealth coun-
tries, together, to make the most
of their resources both in
supplying themselves and in
trading with the wider world.
“In the long habit of Com-
monwealth co-operation there is
the means of achieving these
common ends.”
Turning to Britain’s special
position in regard to such a con-
ference, the “Times” added:
“The foundation of policy is
the self-reliance of the Common-
wealth, not its self-sufficiency. It
is meaningless to pose a choice
for the United Kingdom (as the
leading representative of the
Commonwealth) between North
America, Western Europe and
the Commonwealth link. [Mr.
Menzies, it hardly needs saying,
did not pose such a choice, but
others have done so.]
“All three connections are
warp and woof of British policy
as of British history. Britain
has an authority in European
counsels corresponding to her
contribution, through sea power
and world-wide commercial
connections, to the Continent’s
economic and military strength.
Her part in spreading European
ideas and culture in a new world
oversea will justify in the eyes
of thoughtful Europeans her
necessary detachment from
movements towards Continental
political integration with which
it is still her interest to co-
operate. Her special connection
in history and outlook with the
United States, itself part of the
new world oversea, can be made
a buttress of security for Europe
and the Commonwealth.
“There have been doubts in
Europe —and in the Common-
wealth —whether the balance be-
tween the three has lately been


DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
/
hi
f
arfd f
MORE
SUCCESSFUL MEN
USE PALMOLIVE
THAN ANY OTHER
SHAVE CREAM
He didn’t win her “by a whisker”
. . . it’s his smooth, clean-shaven
look! You, too, can have shaves
that look good and feel good
Palmolive Shaves! Palmolive
soothes your skin as you shave
faster , closer . . . without skin
sting! Get Palmolive the
shave cream of successful men!
s
fd
PRICE 1/8
BANKERS
SALESMEN • LAWYERS
Taste
Reflects
Character
mint
usss
JOAN
mm ' - -
Moav
JAWt’
-jOVCi
DICK
r«vav»u
PUNY
g
,\,f
'I 1 - 117 - V. ri'J-'i Jo'in. i«
w.
'V/
w
* .I iiawmH ‘I
«^ e
a K>f’K»oW
wi« es . »(
£.W
\> e
frcve
4 SffP 5 -
ds eS
T. -<j&
V*
o^ e
vtf e
*%*»**
kcw' aC
\YK V
tfv
VKOSV
yevO 0
F^°V^ C
CO. vV
y£
Ift
9 0
trt"
io**
held true. Some fear in Europe
that necessary caution about
Continental ‘integration’ has
meant that Britain is turning
westward away from Europe;
some doubt in Commonwealth
countries whether the necessity
to pay dollar bills has not dis-
tracted energy and hope from
Commonwealth opportunities.
“The task of the new British
Government, whether Labor or
Conservative, is to bridge the
gulf between the New World and
the Old, in a sense more lasting
than Marshall Aid or even than
Atlantic defence. Through the
Commonwealth Britl&n belongs
to both of these worlds, and only
through the Commonwealth,
fully marshalled to make
thorough use of ail its resources
in the wider world economy,
with Europe on the one hand
and America on the other, can
this crowded industrial island
hope to see a way out of its
material predicament.”
Filipino Brickbats.
Signing himself “A Corres-
pondent,” the writer of a Lon-
don “Fortnightly” article is
nothing if not forthright in his
views on the Philippines. Here
are the opening sentences of a
few of his paragraphs:
“The people and their climate
are lazy.”
“The people besides are
captious and difficult.”
“The Administration, more-
over, is corrupt.”
“The Filipinos, in addition,
are spoiled.”
“Idleness, inefficiency, lawless-
ness, corruption, a nationalist
xenophobia in legislation and a
luxurious extravagance in daily
life —these are the weaknesses
of the Filipino character and
economy which are continually
before one’s eyes in the capital.”
On various grounds—among
them, American withdrawal and
the ending of the flow of un-
earned dollars by 1951, when the
last war-damage claims are paid
—the writer endorses the fore-
cast often uttered by some
European or other in Manila:
“I give this country five years
before the crash,”
China or India?
“Manchester Guardian,” look-
ing editorially over a still some-
what hazy Asia, sees its future
as now becoming clearer, with
Peking, restored as China’s capi-
tal, “likely to be one of the
main centres in which the his-
tory of the modern age is
made.” Henceforth:
“In the east will be China,
vowed to modernise its society
by a species of Communism.
Whether it will continue in de-
pendence upon Russia is at least
doubtful. But the south of the
continent will be dominated by
India, whose Government is
strongly anti-Communist.
“The Indian and Chinese
Governments are different pro-
ducts of the same ferment in
Asia. India, like China, aims at
modernising its society. But it
proposes to do so by other
methods. India is at - once
liberal, democratic and Socialist.
“Thus Asian history promises
to have the special interest of a
competitive experiment between
India and China. Both have the
same purposes. They propose
different means. The rest of
Asia will watch to see which
country is the more successful,
and will probably imitate the
winner.”
Trade With Tito.
Little has come out about the
British-Yugoslav trade pact,
though it seems of considerable
significance.
Concluded at the turn of the
year, it had taken 10 months to
negotiate. The essence of it (as
given in London “Economist”) is
that in the next five years trade
between the two countries will
amount to over £lOO million
each way, and Britain is to pro-
vide the Yugoslavs with an
£8,000,000 long-term credit.
Apparently British traders had
insufficient confidence in Yugo-
slavia’s economic and political
powers of survival to risk credits
themselves, and it seems that
the British Government has de-
cided to guarantee British firms
against losses incurred by ex-
tending credits to Yugoslavia.
“This fact,” the “Economist”
commented, “is certainly surpris-
ing when one considers the ap-
parent disproportion in the
strength of the two bargainers.
It is true that Britain is glad to
buy maize and non-ferrous
metals from other than dollar
sources. It is also true that the
maintenance of a thorn in
Stalin’s side could be worth a
great deal in terms of political
warfare. Nevertheless, the
Yugoslav position is weak. Mar-
shal Tito’s obstinate decision to
continue with his five-year plan
of industrialisation at a time
when the Soviet blockade has
cut him off from almost all com-
mercial intercourse with his
neighbors has intensified the
hardships which his people have
to undergo. Even if he could
survive a political struggle with
the giants of the Kremlin the
economic feasibility of his am-
bitious plans is open to doubt
.... ..That, in these circum-
stances, Marshal Tito should
have secured an agreement
favorable enough to set his im-
mediate anxieties at rest shows
that his obstinacy has paid a
dividend once again, and that,
in Western eyes, Yugoslavia is
an important political asset.”
London “Spectator” inter-
preted the pact as indicating
that the Western Powers, faced
with a country determined to
stand on its own feet and de-
tached from the sudden switches
and the subordination of eco-
nomics to politics characteristic
of Russian Communist policy,
had decided that trade agree-
ments with Yugoslavia had be-
come a risk worth taking:
“The British Government pro-
duced a loan of £8,000,000 from
nowhere, hinted at the possibility
of guaranteed credits for firms
who decide to trade with Yugo-
slavia and thus helped to pro-
mote the policy which the Rus-
sians tried to prevent —a policy
of building up Yugoslav in-
dustry and creating a balance
between agriculture and manu-
facture. It is impossible to dis-
entangle the political from the
economic threads in a situation
such as this. All this is not to
say that the British Government
wishes to interfere in the in-
ternal affairs of Yugoslavia, or
that the Yugoslav Government
intends to abandon its policy of
national Communism. It is
simply to say that Yugoslavia—
the one country in which the
Iron Curtain has been dented—
occupies such a crucial position
between East and West that her
economic policies cannot be iso-
lated from the balance of power,
and it is useless to pretend that
they can.”
To London “Time and Tide,”
as one other representative ex-
ample, the agreement was simply
part of the British policy of
giving limited, practical help to
Marshal Tito in his attempts to
withstand Russian bullying,
without overdoing that help. “It
is a policy which, parallel with
a similar policy on the part of
the U.S.A., is bound to produce
political dividends in the
attempts of the West as. a whole
to withstand the aggression of
the East.”
German on Germans.
In one of a series of ap-
parently unbiased articles in
N. Y. “Herald Tribune” Wolfe
Frank, who was born in Ger-
many and lived there till 1937,
but served as an officer in the
British Army during the war,
reports to the following effect
on present German feelings to-
wards Nazism:
There is widespread disgust
among Germans with the way
the de-Nazification programme
has worked out, with its creep-
ing pace and uneven execution,
with its inconsistent and often
unjust results.
There is no longer any oppro-
brium in the German mind con-
nected with persons convicted or
suspected of Nazi affiliations,
except perhaps for top people
blamed for losing the war or
for the unpleasant consequences
of Nazi atrocities.
Real non-Nazis were so few,
comparatively, and so unim-
portant in the life of the Ger-
man community, that even with
the Allies trying to help them
win precedence in reorganising
Germany after the war, they
were hopelessly unequal to the
task. Ex-Nazis in large num-
bers had to be called on to do
the job.
Although there is no real
Nazi party today and no real
Nazi leadership, there is a Nazi
esprit de corps, a solidarity that
has been strengthened rather
than weakened by the de-Nazi-
fication programme. There is
evidence that former members of
the S.S, are regrouping, although
at the moment primarily for
social rather than political pur-
poses
Soviet Triumvirate.
The view (lately recorded in
an item here) that Stalin means
to leave a triumvirate in succes-
sion at his death is given an
airing in the “Scotsman” (Edin-
burgh), in which Whitehall ana-
lysts of Soviet affairs are repre-
sented as finding the belief
strongly supported by the fact
that when Mao Tse-tung was
received by Stalin in December
four other persons were present,
which is unusual.
“Though it was natural for
Vyshinsky to be there as Foreign
Minister, the natural interpreta-
tion of the presence of Molotov,
Malenkov and Bulganin is that
after Stalin these are the three
most important figures in the
country. None of them has a
Ministerial portfolio. But ex-
perts have been predicting that
Molotov will inherit Stalin’s
State functions, Malenkov his
party functions and Bulganin his
military - defence responsibili-
ties.”
Dragnet Digest.
A German Offer. —On German
Chancellor Dr. Adenauer’s statement
that he is “prepared to co-operate in
any organisation intended to control
the German war potential” and
would also support the immediate
setting-up of a joint Security Com-
mission, London “News Chronicle”
commented: “This is something we
have never had before in the troubled
story of Europe—namely, an offer
from a German Government to join
with its neighbors in muzzling the
dogs of war. This affords the best
hope we have yet had of Germany
forswearing the old lust for world
domination.”
* * ♦ *
Scottish Nationalism. —No doubt
with all the other Walter Scott spirits
looking on, Malachi Malagrowther’s
ghost is urging again what his
original urged, and oddly enough in
practically the same terms: i.e., a
better deal for Scotland; away with
the “despotic authority of English
Boards”; an end to London assum-
ing complete management of Scottish
affairs. Against suggestions that
complaints so old can’t really be very
strong or dangerous, London “Times”
editorially asserts that in point of
fact they are growing, with the most
forcible activity that of a movement
for a Scottish National Assembly
and a new National Covenant. This
movement, which has very solid
backing, aims at securing for Scot-
land “a Parliament with adequate
authority in Scottish affairs.”
* * * *
Precious Peanuts. —The more that
comes out about it the more the
British Government’s African peanut
performance looks like socialising’s
costliest monument to date. Cost so
far, approximately £30,000,000; har-
vest, so few peanuts that whole lot
of them had to be kept for seed.
* * * *
British-U.S. China Investments. —
Roughly calculated in cash, says
London “Economist” (giving what is
possibly sufficient explanation for
Britain’s getting in ahead on China
recognition), estimates of British in-
vestments in China are in the region
of £3OO million, while American
investments are put at $lOO million ;
a mighty big difference. These esti-
mates, the “Economist” emphasises,
can, however, only be the roughest
of guides, and must depend as much
on political circumstances as on the
range of business included in the
calculation; presumably invested
capital would be worth nothing if
holders were expropriated tomorrow
without compensation: “All that can
be said is that if the Communists do
cut off their nose to spite their face,
some Western faces will be disfigured
also —and nobody would gain from
that.”
* * * *
8.8. C. Commonwealth Service. —■
It’s a one-way traffic, in the view of
London “Time and Tide”: plenty of
Britain for British Commonwealth
consumption but mighty little of the
rest for British consumption. “The
8.8. C.,” it comments, “spends mil-
lions every year on its overseas ser-
vice, which floods the outer world,
and in particular the Commonwealth
nations, with news and features about
life in Britain. It is time our national
broadcasting system made an effort
to get some reverse lend-lease from
the A.8.C., C.B.C. and all the other
allied Commonwealth broadcasting
services.”
* * * *
Job Ahead in China. —In one of a
series of N. Y. “Herald Tribune’
articles by experienced Far East
correspondents, A. T. Steele insists
that the conquering Corns still have
the job ahead of them in attaining
their economic and political aims:
“This is a very long-term task. The
Communists face a staggering job of
internal consolidation. They cannot
convert China into a great Power
until they have transformed the
peasant economy into an industrial
economy. They hope to accomplish
this in from ten to fifteen years.
Soviet Russia can give them some
help, but the process will be greatly
delayed unless they are able to obtain
large quantities of capital goods and
essential raw materials from the
capitalistic West, and especially from
the United States.” Thus, he con-
cludes, the U.S. has not lost its
power to influence events in China;
it retains at least one powerful
weapon—the economic one.
* * * *
V.S-British Friendship. The
“Yorkshire Post’s” editor, comment-
ing on Russia’s atom-bomb: “If the
men of the Kremlin decide on war
....our [British] lives will be in the
hands of the Americans, the only
other people with atom-bombs. Yet
some of our Left-wingers are con-
tinually trying to sow trouble between
the United States and Britain. They
argue that our interests are more
with West European countries than
with the Americans, and that we
should not look so much to Washing-
ton as to the European continent for
vital forms of co-operation. I dare
say most of those who scoff at the
policy of warm friendship with the
United States and keep on sneering
at the Americans do it wildly but
innocently; others are paid by
Moscow.”


Whether you need a tali, tinkling drink to
cure a parching thirst, or a short, stimulat-
ing appetiser, your drink will taste best
when the base of it is Vickers. Vickers Gin
—-always excellent,.always satisfying is
the accepted drink of the times.
Vickers
VG26/16
in
m
m
1
m
i^
UM&lia-
-, M
CM*
s?g
K
MT
Tour
K 34
the glamorous East.. .
on the “Kangaroo” Service to London
AIaGIC CARPET through the East, your London bound
Constellation visits fascinating ports-of-call each with a
glamour of its own.
FREE TOURS of Singapore— colourful, cosmopolitan
crossroads of the world . . . and Rome—the world’s
storehouse of cultural treasures.
Stop-over for as many days as you wish, at no extra fare,
—or fly “express” in 4 days direct to England.
Superlative service on air-conditioned 4-engined
Constellations, Perfect food —aloft and aground. No
currency problems on this sterling route. Return tickets at
special rebate. Reduced fare and increased baggage
allowance for round-the-world travellers.
Consult your travel agent, or
D£A and
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S Na I CUP
The Na I Drink
for wise men
“A chrysanthemum 9ft. tall was
fertilised regularly with dregs from
beer-barrels.”
—Sydney ‘‘Sunday Sun.”
It has developed a tap-root.
+ + +
“My boy-friend has promised to
clean both his and my shoes when
we are married, and I’ll make sure
he lives up to it.”
—Letter to Melbourne paper,
He’ll be a shining example.
+ 4* 4*
“The Three- and Four-year-old
Handicap was really as funny as a
circus.” —( B. 4/l/’5O).
And to make the simile even
more convincing the jockeys
were the star equestrians, the
bookmakers were the ring-
masters and, as usual, the
punters were the clowns.
4* 4E*
Under the Influence.
“People who are in love show signs
as clearly as those who are drunk,
says a judge.”
Love is a gin and a snare.
First thing you know some
amber-eyed lass schnapps you up
on the principle of any port in a
storm. Intoxicated by her charm,
you give her a bouquet, take her
to all the hops in your vintage
car and feel that you are im-
bibing the wine of life. Your
conversation sparkles in her
presence and you turn on the
very champagne of wit, and you
have a rum feeling that you are
a stout fellow. Then comes the
time when love has you groggy,
and either you do the right thing
by broaching the subject of
matrimony or her old man will
take a muscat to you and make
you toe the line. In either case
there’s trouble brewing.
Ed.
•F *F •3*
“Never go hiking without stock-
ings.”—Women’s paper.
They’re a sheer necessity in
every walk of life.
•F *F *F
“Wanted: Three-roomed flat, half-
house, separate kitchenette, furnished
or unfurnished.” —Suburban paper.
In fact, any sort of quarters
will do.
*F *F *F
“Lost, two songs. Finder please
return Robin Hood.”
—Suburban paper.
Reward if accompanied by
Friar Tuck.
•F *F *F
“Moral uplift came mainjy from
male stars.” —Sydney ‘‘Sunday Sun.”
That of the women was
merely figurative.
•F *F *F
“Most cooks are color-blind.”
—Sydney ‘‘Sunday Telegraph.”
Yet they can generally tell if
their employer is green.
Castle in the Air.
“What is my dream home like?”
—‘‘New Idea.”
My dream home has no hedge
or lawn
To keep me busy night and
morn.
No thorny roses wanting prun-
ing
Or grand-piano needing tuning;
No gadgets with their power-
points
Or attic stairs to test my joints.
Nor will you hear emitted there
To jangle nerves a radio’s blare.
And if, perplexed, you should
demand
What beauty from an artist’s
hand
Distinguishes my dream abode
From others up and down the
road,
I must confess that costs are
such
I cannot even boast as much
As one joist, girder, brick or
beam —
In fact, my dream home’s still a
dream.
D.H.E.
Conversation Piece.
“An American biologist, in support
of his theory that fish speak a
mS'lblSkJSrted
a ‘conversation.’ ”
The blue groper and the old-
man snapper were yarning when
simultaneously their radar
picked up the unmistakable im-
pulses. They just had time to
dive into the weeds before a
huge torpedo shape glided by
overhead. The snapper cocked
an eye up. •
“My solicitor,” he said
blandly,. “I’ve been dodging an
[OVENS
“You see, Madam —accommodates a large
turkey easily.”
appointment for quite a while
now.”
After the grey-nurse had gone
they resumed their former
position.
“Gripes, I’ve never known the
mackerel to be so scarce,” com-
plained the groper.
“I’ll bet a squid I know the
cause,” said the red fish em-
phatically. “It’s the Mackerel
Marketing Board started by old
Neptune. That’s what we get
for allowing ’em to muck about
with the good old law of
supply and demand. Never had
this trouble before Nep. got
these crackpot Socialist ideas,
’Struth! I’ve been on a strict
yellowtail diet now for two
months, and it’s beginning to
get me down.”
“Well,” grinned the groper,
“you want to watch carefully
what you eat or it’ll be getting
you up!” —and he cast a sig-
nificant glance towards the sur-
face.
The snapper looked his scorn.
“I don’t fall for that stuff,
Blue,” he said waterily. “I took
awake-up to it when I was only
a cockney.”
Just then a fish with a wide
mouth swam up to the pair,
“Aw! ” he guffawed. “ ’Ow
long did it tairk y’ to swim
oot from London, Choom?
You’d look well in mother-o’-
pearl buttons —they’d go well
with all those spots you’ve got
all over you. What are they,
anyway?”
“Measles, you flathead! ”
snapped the snapper, upon
which the intruder raised his
spike in alarm and fled.
“Heard any shaggy-dogfish
stories lately?” asked the groper.
“Well, only a very mild one,”
replied the red fish, “Did you
hear about the tailer who had
his gills ripped by a hook? He
didn’t need to worry a bit.”
“Didn’t he drown?” asked the
groper innocently.
“Don’t be silly!” giggled the
snapper. “He had it all sewn
up! ”
“Another one like that and
I’ll crown you!” growled Blue.
As they were speaking a flat-
looking fish swam by.
“Upon my sole!” exclaimed
the groper, “What a revolting
sight! However did he get like
that?*
“Ar, he was run over by a
hit-run diver up on the pearling-
grounds when he was only a
half-sole,” explained the snapper.
“A queer sort of a fish—nearly
falls out of the water to recog-
nise you one day and the next
kids he doesn’t see you. I some-
times think he’s more of a ‘heel’
than a sole.”
Just then a long, emaciated-
looking shape flashed by them.
•The groper, panicky, was about
to dive for the shelter of a
favorite rock when the red fish
stopped him.
“What are y’ windy about a
barracouta for?” he asked
laughingly. “He’s got no guts! ”
As the flathead came into view
again the groper looked hard at
him, then said in a puzzled voice
to the snapper “Is it that goat
back again or is it his twin
brother? Damned if I can tell
’em apart.”
Before the red fish could
reply the flathead piped up.
“Crook-looking lump you’ve
got on your scone,” he remarked
cheekily. “How did you get it
—in a head-on collisibn with a
bony bream?”
“Get to hell out of here!”
roared the snapper.
Just as the flathead flicked
away there came a “plop! ”
above them, and soon a shower
of white stuff began to descend
slowly.
“Ah, well, never knock a free
feed back,” remarked the
snanper philosophically. “Blind
Freddie could pick this from
dinkum bait. Fancy trying to
trick us with the old pollard-
burley stuff! Doing some poor
fowls out of a feed.”
At that another flathead poked
his bib in, and said “You’ve got
a great head for picking things
up quick. Snap. You ought to
have been a chook yourself.”
As the flathead fled again the
snapper happened to glance ujp.
“Just get a dekko at this, will
you?” he said, indicating a
fishing-line sliding down. “The
supreme optimist: a couple of
old mullet-gut knobs, the point
of the hook showing, clear
water, no wind, midday and not
even on the reef —he might as
well pack up—the only bite he’ll
get will be sandflies ; even the
pickers wouldn’t look at that
stuff.”
‘‘Must be a dill,” commented
the groper. “Though, mind, not
all humans are dumb, I must ad-
mit. Only the other day I struck
one who had almost piscatorial
intelligence—he’d poured ani-
seed-oil over the bait.
“Aniseed, eh?” said the red
fish, licking his chops. “My
favorite fruit, flower, vegetable
and scent. Lead me to it!”
“Poor old Mick Mullet must
have been on the mangrove-
juice again,” commented the
groper, jerking a fin. “There he
goes, being lumbered by Ser-
geant Baker,”
Something white flashed in the
water as another fish swam by.
It was a couple of broken
lengths of line streaming from
the two rusty hooks embedded
in its jaw.
“It’s Mrs. Whiting,” whispered
the snapper. “She’s been wear-
ing those nylons for at least six
months. Rather snappy, I”
The groper nudged him and
indicated a dark-looking object
suspended in the depths.
“Gosh!” he said. “If I’d
known that was there I’d have
had ‘mike’-fright properly. I
think we’re being overheard.
Comanavadrink.”
BO.


A CASE OF
ENLARGED
(t
nn
o o
CTQ
m
"‘flint
Stretched, patched and
worn tubes mean trouble
possibly accidents
All tubes stretch in use and that is where trouble
starts. Old tubes lose air, and while a
"flat" can be annoying, half-flat tyres
overheat and may
k blow out. Don't
take risks! A
small outlay
on new Good-
year Tubes will
protect your
tyres, yourself
and your family.
mes
vow
Give
tttlw
k
HP
vi\w
GOODJVEAR
HEAVY DUTY TUBES
Every new tyre deserves a N E W Goodyear Tube
: T«-159
You can taste the
extra flavour
in 355 Virginia
cigarettes...”
THE SECRET'S IN THE 333's
BLEND
SWATS SXPSSSS
m
738 D-UM&
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The stewards put in an unusually-
busy afternoon at the S.T.C.’s Rose-
hill meeting on Saturday. Faced
with something in the nature of a
mass outbreak of rough and careless
riding, the stipes jumped hard with
both feet; jockeys J. Thompson, N.
McGrowdie and J. Hickey each
stopped two months’ suspension for
interference. In all, the guardians of
the game held post-mortems on six
of the eight races, and, by way of
sundries, fined two owners a quid a
time for sailing under wrong colors
and also soaked one rider a note for
going to scale with a faulty skull-cap.
Without commenting in any way
on the rights or wrongs of the
individual cases dealt .with on Satur-
day, a bit of swift and sudden action
anent careless riding is about due.
There have been far too many spills
on Sydney courses of late, and far
too many examples of the sort of
riding which usually winds up with
someone or other in hospital, if not
further afield.
Particular interest of the Civic
Handicap, run over seven furlongs
and 81yds., was the reappearance
after a lengthy spell of the champion
mare De La Salle. It was De La
Salle’s first outing since she competed
without success at the Doomben Cup
meeting in July last year, but
evidently a good first-up effort was
expected. With Blue Ensign, the only
other in any demand, at 9 to 4, De
La Salle started favorite at 6 to 4,
and, given the run of the race by
J. Thompson, won as she liked.
Beaten nearly three lengths, Star Vite
was second, just shading Midwise.
The Queensland performer Tama-
rind may be one to keep an eye
on, judging from his excellent win-
ning of the well-endowed Lord
Mayor’s Cup, in which those closest
to him at the finish were the fancied
Anniversary Handicap candidates Free-
dom and High Spirits and the Sydney
Cup winner Proctor. Keeping him
well up with the pacemaker Vallila,
but never taking too much out of his
mount, W. Briscoe rode a clever race
on Tamarind to win by H lengths.
Neither Freedom nor High Spirits
should lose favor as Anniversary
Handicap prospects; Freedom was
the worst sufferer in a scrimmage
over which J. Thompson on Blue
Danube received his suspension, and
High Spirits, finishing generously for
third money, was reported to have
covered a fair part, of the trip with
a badly-twisted plate.
With De La Salle the only suc-
cessful favorite, Saturday was not
particularly profitable for most
punters, but some evidently went
along well armed with the “good
oil.” Both maiden two-year-old
events saw hefty plunges landed by
animals whose public form had not
particularly attracted attention. Win-
ner of the Maiden for colts and geld-
ings, and starting at threes, was
Golden Wedge, a Golden Sovereign
colt who at three previous outings
had started at 25 to 1, 100 to 1 and
50 to 1 and run pretty much accord-
ingly. The Maiden for fillies went to
Ragazza, having her first run and
backed from tens to fives. A
daughter of Le Grand Due, Ragazza
is a half-sister to the 1946 A.J.C.
Derby winner Concerto (who was by
Midstream), and she races in the
same interests. Ragazza scored most
comfortably, after coming from a
long way back in the field.
* * * *
At Caulfield on Saturday the lime-
light was extensively occupied by
jockey R. Hutchinson, turning in the
splendid performance of three wins
and two closish seconds from five
mounts. In the one other flat race
Hutchinson’s mount Heliofly was
declared a non-starter after injuring
himself at the barrier. Otherwise the
principal feature of the afternoon’s
proceedings was the consistency with
which favorites, including two odds-
on pops, bit the dust.
Although other events carried better
prizemdney, the main attraction of
the programme was the Kingston
Stakes for two-year-olds, providing
virtually a match race between the
two crack colts Merry Scout and
King Richard. Agincourt’s son King
Richard, at 11 to 8 on, was preferred
in the betting, but the Kindefscout
colt proved himself, on the day,
roundly superior. It was generally
anticipated that Merry Scout would,
as usual, try to lead all the way, but
whatever plans King Richard’s rider
(Hutchinson) may have formed on
that assumption were upset when his
mount jumped very smartly at
barrier-rise while Merry Scout dwelled
somewhat. It was Merry Scout
instead, then, who had the last run
on his opponent, and, ranging up to
the leader with half a furlong to go,
Merry Scout fought on solidly to
score by three-parts of a length; the
winner carried 9.3, spotting the
favorite 31b.
Owner O. R. Porter was reported
to have cleaned up in royal style
when his pair Prince o’ Fairies and
Chatspa landed a double at Moonee
Valley a couple of weeks back, but
the bookies must have retrieved some
of their chips when the oft-expensive
Prince o’ Fairies missed out in Satur-
day’s mile Devonshire Handicap for
three-year-olds; betting was 7to 1 bar
one, with the Prince at 10 to 9 on.
Prince o’ Fairies struck ill-luck in
the running right from the start, and
by the time he had worked his way
to the front in the straight he had
nothing in reserve to withstand the
“I won't give her the dummy tell we get on the green.”
finishing effort of Front Line (R.
Hutchinson). A likely-looking son
of Great Britain, Front Line carries
the colors of H. G. Raymond, who
won the 1948 Melbourne Cup with
Rimfire.
Although riding in grand form
throughout the day, Hutchinson was
probably seen at his very best in
landing Baldur a narrow winner from
Free Kick and Heather Rose in the
12-furlongs Deakin Handicap. On
Baldur, Hutchinson rode the absolute
copybook race; alert and smartly
away at the start, gradually, and with-
out rushing his mount, working up
to a comfortable handy position
within striking distance of the leaders,
nursing his mount along carefully
over the lengthy journey and then
riding out a vigorous, driving,
perfectly-timed finish to win by a
half-neck. Really good horseman-
ship.
The four-year-old Burberry mare
Harella —another to Hutchinson —ran
good time in winning the first division
of the Barton Handicap from Carnage
and Gascony. Harella clocked 1.1 H,
while 1.121 was good enough to win
the second division for Dumfries (J.
Vasil). The Forrest Hurdle went to
Spearman, ridden by his owner, Mr.
T. Dynon, while the Mitchell Handi-
cap saw Dupont give J. Purtell his
10th last-race victory of the season.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) :
Sledmere Handicap: Colonel’s
Daughter, 1; Ragazza, 2; Star
Bloom, 3. Valicare Handicap:
Ferocious Lass, 1; Dona Marcheta,
2; Elusive, 3. Sunny side Handicap:
Nirandoli, 1; Ocean Prince, 2;
Navigate, 3. Encourage: Crownall,
1; Mungaroo, 2; Dixie Belle, 3.
Challenge Stakes: Wattle, 1; Crag
Son, 2; San Domenico, 3. January
Handicap: Silent, 1; Tamarind, 2;
Barnsley, 3. Paddington Handicap:
Bold Archer, 1; Anahuac, 2;
Verbage, 3.
* * * *
The A.J.C. recently took most
unusual action regarding the horse
Frontal Attack, which was disqualified
for life in May, 1948, after it had
finished third in the James Barnes
Plate at Randwick and subsequent
analysis of a swab had shown a
positive result according to the
A.J.C. analyst, Miss Jean Kimble.
The horse’s trainer was also “outed”
for life, but the owner was
exonerated, notwithstanding which he
has been deprived of the use of his
horse —a paradoxical procedure which
present writer has never been able
to fathom. Apparently preferring
that the fairly good animal should
be active for someone else than idle
on his hands the owner of Frontal
Attack offered to sell the horse for
charity, which notion the A.J.C. has
adopted. The committee has granted
Alderman E. C. O’Dea, Lord Mayor
of Sydney, a clear*registration of the
horse. O’Dea is acting as trustee-
owner what time trainer Danny
Lewis is getting the horse into con-
dition preparatory to its being put up
for public auction at William Inglis
and Son’s Newmarket Stables (Syd-
ney) on Friday next.
Speaking of alleged doping eases
leads to comment on the surely singu-
lar fact that after a period of a few
weeks had seen a plethora of
allegedly positive swabs, not a solitary
one has been reported now for
nearly a year.
* * * *
It is possibly best to draw a veil
over the South African match Aus-
tralia v. Border at East London last
week. Briefly, Australia in its first
innings declared at 4 for 425; Border
didn’t so much reply as, rather, twice
half-open its mouth —72 and 60, with
the highest individual score in either
innings 16. Australia by an innings
and 293 runs, to say nothing of some
half-dozen spare wickets.
On then to Durban for the third
Test, in which, after the first two
days’ play, the Australians found
themselves for the second time this
tour in a mite ticklish position. The
odds were surely against Hassett’s
winning three tosses in a row, and
when he did fail to do so the
S’Africans seized opportunity by
both horns. Batting first, the home
side slogged up 311, largely con-
tributed to by opener Rowan’s excel-
lent 143 and skipper Nourse’s 66. The
Australians then found themselves,
for a change, trapped on a badly-
wearing pitch, and contrived, with 75,
the lowest total they have recorded
against S. Africa since the twain first
met in 1902; previous poorest was
twice that tally. The position would
have been a sight worse but for
Morris’s fighting 25, Loxton’s 16 and
Moroney’s contribution of 10. Thus
the position at stumps on Saturday.
♦ * * *
New South Wales had no difficulty
in subduing South Australia in the
Sheffield Shield match at Sydney
Cricket Ground last week, and so
now the decisive match will be N.S.W.
v. Victoria on the same ground,
commencing next Friday. New South
Wales (346) beat South Australia (94
and 211) by an innings and 41 runs.
Test stars Sid Bames and Em
Toshack declared themselves available
for the coming N.S.W. v. Victoria
match, but notwithstanding the recog-
nised box-office value and match-
winning ability of Barnes in par-
ticular, the N.S.W. selectors very
properly decided to stick to those
who had stuck with them throughout
the season. Sid and Erp will view
proceedings along with the cash
customers.
$ * * *
Results of early rounds of the Aus-
tralian Lawn Tennis championships
at Kooyong, Melbourne, had Davis
Cup selectors wreathed in smiles. The
very-promising bunch of youngsters
we have coming along were all in
splendid form. Sedgman and Wor-
thington did what was expected of
them, albeit Worthington had a bit
of a struggle when he struck veteran
Harry Hopman in really sparkling
form. However, the star turn was
unseeded Ken McGregor’s convincing
defeat of the No. 1 seeded player
Jaroslav Drobny. A tall, powerful,
ideal tennis type, McGregor beat the
chunky Czech, 11-9, 6-1, 6-3. An-
other youngster in Don Candy also
showed handy form in taking the
S’African champion Sturgess to four
sets, Sturgess eventually winning 6-1,
6-1, 4-6, 6-3.
* * * *
With much squabbling, buck-
passing and general to-do re the
financial position, the Australian
Empire Games team, or at least the
swimming section thereof, is begin-
ning to resemble the fabled “Ten
little nigger boys.” On a somewhat
vague point of principle swimmer
Bruce Bourke has taken a stand on
the matter of the extra £2O necessary
for his trip being donated from pri-
vate sources; refusing to accept what
he terms “charity,” Bourke has re-
signed from the team. So, too, has
the official swimming coach, Forbes
Carlile, who sees moi J e joy in doing
the trip unofficially but profitably
with a broadcasting contract in his
pocket than paying his own expenses
for the honor and the glory of accept-
ing the authorities’ dictum “Thou
shalt not broadcast.” As Carlile’s
own personal pupils comprise a hefty
section of the Australian team there
should be fun as well as games in
New Zealand.
With all the unpleasantness in
other departments it is pleasing to
note at least one section of the
Games team which has just gone
quietly and efficiently about its own
business —the rowers, who, while
other representatives are still trying
to decide whether to go or not, are
already settled into their training
quarters in New Zealand.


Mr. Man-on-the-land!
■"SBC
if
Ask yourself
which Pastoral Company
• has always made Service to you
its first object?
has kept pace with your great industry’s
requirements for 8? years?
• has staffed its organisation with
men alive to your interests?
offers you the best facilities for sale of
wool, fat stock and hides, purchase of
merchandise, matters of finance and
management, agistment and insurance?
Till answer to all questions is-
-87 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863
AMLE
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches: — N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Cowra,.
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina, Cooma and Deniliquin.
Q’land: Townsville, Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi,
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and
Pittsworth, Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd.; Toowoomba, H. P. Veness & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Winton. Vic.: Wodonga, Korumburra.
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
griader discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
40z. ( Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep. Cattle. Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit
and Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activity.
% i
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or 1/2# posted from
Bulletin Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRT, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
Manchester or Mules?
“Bungaree”; To assess the
claims and comparative values
of each for preventing crutch-
strike, N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture conducted an experi-
ment at Trangie. As both
methods are now widely used, it
is evident that both are giving
good results.
The Manchester technique is
covered by patent, and can be
used only on payment of a
royalty to the patentee, who
supplies the chemicals. It con-
sists of swabbing the breech and
tail area with methylated spirits,
then a caustic preparation is
worked into the woolbearing
parts. A scab forms and eventu-
ally the surface contracts,
stretching the skin and leaving
an increased area of bare skin.
The Mules operation has been
considerably amended since its
inception, but it aims at the same
results as the Manchester —re-
moving breech wrinkles, stretch-
ing the skin and increasing the
area of bare skin round the
vulva —but by surgical means.
Sharp-shears cut away strips of
woolbearing skin from both
sides of crutch and tail. Inclu-
sion of the tail operation be-
came necessary when it was
found that tail-wool could
attract fly to Mulesed ewes.
The experiment was made
with six flocks of 97 ewes each
and a control flock of untreated
ewes with short and medium-
length tails. One flock of short-
tailed ewes was Manchestered,
as was a flock of medium-length
tails. This classification of tail-
length was observed throughout.
Of the four Mulesed flocks two
had the woolbearing skin re-
moved from the tails, and in
the other two the tails were left
woolly. All the ewes were two-
tooths, and were full-crutched
just before the start of the ex-
periment.
First comparison was of time
taken for the operations. Mules-
ing was appreciably quicker.
Considerable care was necessary
in handling the Manchester
chemicals. Next point was the
immediate effect of the opera-
tion on the sheep. None showed
any evidence of pain or discom-
fort immediately after treatment,
but several days later Man-
chestered ewes were noticed try-
ing to bite at the treated areas,
and most of these fell away in
condition for a while, but picked
up again in a few weeks.
Another comparison was in
healing time. At the end of five
weeks all the Mulesed sheep had
healed completely; it took
seven weeks for the bulk of the
Manchestered to recover, and
some had not healed 11 weeks
after the operation. Some Man-
chestered sheep became fly-
struck before healing was com-
plete.
It wag estimated that the
Manchester method gave slightly
better stretching and bare-skin
area than Mules. In actual
practice, however, there was no
significant difference in the de-
gree of protection against fly-
strike. The ewes which had
been Mulesed but not tail-
operated were struck occa-
sionally during the severe fly
attack in the spring of 1947,
following the operation. Those
flocks which had been com-
plet e 1 y Manchestered and
Mulesed were reckoned to have
months’ complete protection
and practically complete protec-
tion for the season through one
of the worst fly waves on record.
While the evidence somewhat
favors the Mules method, it is
far from conclusive, and much
depends on the operator. Get
a qualified operator to demon-
strate the right way to do the
job. Most stock-inspectors and
registered veterinarians in
country practice are up-to-date
in its operation. Local graziers’
organisations could arrange
field-days on a selected property
with a qualified vet. to demon-
strate. It is not enough merely
to observe. Each interested
sheepowner should do the par-
ticular job under instruction so
that he understands the prin-
ciple of it.
Cattle for Tropics.
“Oxo”: In a summing-up of
the arguments about the desira-
bility or otherwise of introducing
Zebu blood into North Queens-
land, R. L. Atkinson, Mungalla,
Ingham (N.Q.), states that all
cattlemen who run down the
Zebu have not tried them. For
10 years he has been experiment-
ing with various crosses, and
four years ago he decided that
the best cross would be Poll
Shorthorn, and that the best per-
centage of Brahma blood would
be 25 per cent., taking into con-
sideration docility, early maturity
and weight, and hardiness and
constitution.
He decided to form a stud to
establish anew breed, which
would breed true to type, have a
polled head, be all red, have all
the abovementioned charac-
teristics —docility, etc. —and have
the ability to fatten, on poor
country and be tick-resistant. He
persuaded his brother, K. J.
Atkinson, Wairuna (N.Q.), to
breed a similar beast instead of
continuing with his three-eighth
Brahma, and later they intend to
establish a herd-book and
register all stock which conforms
to the set type.
One of the hardest problems,
R. L. Atkinson says, is that only
about two per cent, of the first
cross with the colored pure-bred
Brahma and a red Shorthorn is
red, hence most of the calves
have to be culled for color.
A lot of people .believe that
Brahma-cross cattle are useful
only on poor country that will
not rear or fatten a Shorthorn,
Hereford or any other British
breed, but nothing could be
further from the farts. Recently
Atkinson visited the Werribee
Metropolitan Sewage Farm
(Vic.) and saw hundreds of two-
year-old Hereford, Aberdeen-
Angus and Shorthorn steers on
beautiful pastures. He is willing
to bet 10 to one that, if the
manager of Werribee would mate
a half-bred Brahma bull supplied
by him (Atkinson) with his cows,
the progeny reared in the same
paddocks as the pure-breds
“I DO miss the pigeons!”
mentioned would outweigh them
at two-year-old,
Atkinson contends that most
of those who run down Brahma
blood would be converted if they
had half a dozen calves one
season by a good bull and com-
pared them with pure British
stock.
Root Rots.
“He-Ne”: A way of beating
root-rot diseases that were so
general in N.S.W. wheat crops
this season is put forward by
J. L. Green, assistant principal
agronomist, who suggests that
the correct way to bring pastures
or lea-land back into wheat is by
sowing grazing oats first.
Many of the root rots get into
the wheat from barley-grass, but
as oats are resistant to root
diseases, a crop of them would
starve out the spores before they
got at the wheat. Green suggests
grazing the oats until October,
and then making a short fallow
for the succeeding wheat crop.
He said three factors contributed
to the marked increase in foot-
rot in 1949 wheat crops, these
being continuous wheat-crop-
ping, a favorable season for
barley-grass and a moist
October. The root-rot diseases
are soil-borne organisms, and
control measures must lie in soil
treatment. While fallowing
tends to starve these diseases out
it is not as effective as a crop of
oats before the fallow.
Roughage.
“Myrrhee”: Young growing
cattle need good meadow or
lucerne hay as a supplement to
paddock feed. The roughage
develops the rumen and encour-
ages cud-chewing, both being
essential to full development of
a dairy cow.
For calves over six months old
concentrates aren’t necessary if
they’re getting sufficient pastur-
age and good roughage. In fact,
concentrates tend to fatten
rather than accelerate the growth-
rate.
Heifers in their first autumn
and winter, when they’ll be a
year off calving; require a daily
ration of 31b. of grass hay. In
their second autumn and winter,
when they should be springing,
up to 61b. per head daily. On
this reckoning, a yearling heifer
will need scwt. of hay; a
springer, lOcwt. These quantities
can be taken as a minimum for
young stock in the fodder-
conservation programme.
Vic. Wheat Contests.
“Myrrhee”: The Mallee
championship this year went to
W. A. Jones, Nullawil. This
grower’s tall, well-grown crop
of Insignia produced 38.3
bushels of bright, plump grain
to the acre, a record in this
competition. Previous best, 36
bushels, was harvested from a
crop of Ghurka in 1939 by G.
S. Mahar. Second was J. W.
Fawcett, Sea Lake, whose
Quadrat yielded 35 bushels. One
point separated each of the next
three entries: Mrs. A. Olsen
(Swan Hill), Pinnacle, 90 points ;
G. G. Gniel (Beulah), Bencub-
bin, 89; and M. W. Gniel
(Hopetoun), Insignia, 88.
Results from the Wimmera
showed the district’s superiority
as a wheat-producing area over
the Mallee. Southern Wimmera
champion was last year’s winner,
W. E. Dahlenburg, Dahlen (near
Horsham), whose Pinnacle pro-
duced 68 bushels per acre, a
fraction under last year’s 68.5.
Second was A. G. Mock,
Kaniva, with a well-grown crop
of Magnet, 63.4 bushels (last
year’s average was 62.4). The
judge, H. L. Hore, M.Agr.Sc.,
said the high yields from Pin-
nacle were a feature of the
Wimmera competitions, chiefly
in the southern zone, where
some crops of Pinnacle were
producing over 60 bushels to the
acre.
E. C. Rethus, Broughton, won
the northern Wimmera cham-
pionship with Pinnacle yielding
47 bushels. A crop of Magnet
which ■ harvested 46.2 bushels
won second place for W. G.
Rodda, Warracknabeal.
Northern District champion-
ship went to Tallis and Thomas,
of Dookie. Their Baldmin pro-
duced 46.3 bushels per acre,
giving Thomas a share in his
second consecutive champion-
ship ; his Baldmin last year went
63.7 bushels, a record for a
Northern District competition.
Concrete Finishes.
“Gem”: A variety of finishes
can be given to concrete sur-
faces without adding cement- or
lime-plaster. A “rubbed” sur-
face is got by stripping, chip-
ping off projecting edges and
applying a cement-wash. While
wet rub over with a wooden
float, using a circular action, till
it starts to sand. If the surface
is very hard a coarse-grained
brick, is good for the purpose.
A “chipped” surface gives a
mottled appearance, the area
being worked over with a stone-
mason’s chisel or hand-pick, but
the surface must be very hard
or the aggregate in the concrete
will chip out, When finished it
should be brushed over to re-
move dust and sand.
Aggregate finishes are not
easy, but are worth the trouble.
When pouring, marble chips or
granite screenings are set against
the inside of the forms on the
surfaces to be finished. As soon
as the concrete is set, but while
it is still green, strip, and with a
stiff wire brush scrub over the
surface till the aggregate shows.
If it doesn’t show up easily an
application of one part of hydro-
chloric acid to three parts of
water may be necessary; this
must be carefully washed off
when the job is finished.
Hints on Breeding.
“Rooster”: The most obvious
basis for selection is individual
records, but conformation and
type must be considered. Pure
breeds now firmly established
were founded in recognition of
the importance family history
achieved, however . remote, in
improving strength of type and
character. Select the individuals
which show desirable characters
and breed from them.
In mass selection the progeny
are judged by their tisible
characters, and all those chosen
are reared. This is a slow
method, as it depends on re-
selection in successive genera-
tions. A better and more cer-
tain method is progeny selection.
The males which produce the
best progeny are retained, the
rest being discarded* even
though among them may be
found animals of more desir-
able appearance. Thus it is
possible to estimate the relative
values of many dairy sires from
the performance records of their
daughters.
Inbreeding brings out in-
herited characteristics. If a


OUTPULLS
ANY OTHER TRACTOR OF
EQUIVALENT HORSEPOWER
f-vg>
•••
mm
The
NEW
sf
CRAWLER
TRACTOR
25/33 H.P.
32/40 H.P.
AMPLE POWER TO HANDLE THE TOUGHEST JOBS!
The LOYD is powered by the
Turner Diesel V type 4 cylin-
der 25/33 or 32/40 HIP.
Engine a motor with a
world wide reputation. Elec-
tric starting is standard equip-
ment and gives immediate
and positive starting from
cold. Starts and operates on
Diesel fuel. Fitted with vari-
able governor giving constant
governed engine speeds at all
settings.
The Loyd Crawler is a product
of Vivian Loyd & Co., Eng-
land, an organisation with
over 25 years’ experience in
the manufacture of Crawler
type vehicles.
LOW FUEL CONSUMPTION;
An actual 60 hour test in
Western Australia proved an
economy of fuel as low as
three-quarters of a gallon of
Diesel fuel per hour.
ALSO AVAILABLE IN 25/50
POWER KEROSENE MODEL
THE LOYD CRAWLER IS AN ALL-WEATHER,
ALL-THE-YEAR-ROUND TRACTOR.
Mud, sand, clay, undergrowth,
roots or saplings make no
difference to its broad tracks.
With a maximum speed of 7
m.p.h. it gets quickly from job
to job. Whether as an agricul-
tural tractor, or for clearing,
logging, dozing, grading, scrap-
ing, loading, backfilling, exca-
vating, winching or road build-
ing the Loyd will do the job
i. -v
BETTER! FASTER! CHEAPER!
m
mm
m
m.
j/.
Illustrating (a) the easily accessible
adjustment on idler wheel for track
wear and tension. A feature of the
tracks is that they can be changed in the
field without special equipment, (b) The
special Loyd short pitch track of superior
flexible design enables tractor to travel at all
speeds smoothly, without the vibration that
larger pitch tracks are known to make.
With bull dozer or angle dozer equip- k
ment the LOYD is the ideal compact
machine for medium duty work. The unit is
hydraulically operated and is available with
standard 43" track centres and 5'6" Blade
or 50" track centres and 6'6" Blade.
Clutch and Brake Steering is standard
with this equipment.
Write for specification folder from your nearest Loyd distributor
Western Australian Distributors: Draytons Ltd., Bassendean, Perth • South Australian Distributors: Power Handling (Aust.) Ltd., 61
Gawler Place, Adelaide • Victorian Distributors: Loyd Tractors (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 20 Queen Street, Melbourne • New South Wales
Distributors: Loyd Tractors (N.S.W.) Pty, Ltd., 82a Parramatta Road, Camperdown • Queensland Distributors: Norton Toothill Pty. Ltd.,
*ll2 Charlotte Street, Brisbane • New Zealand Distributors: John Chambers & Son Ltd. Branches throughout New Zealand.
Loyd Sales and Service is available throughout Australasia.
Commonwealth Factory Representative: New Zealand Export Co., 104 St. George's Terrace, Perth.
faulty sire is being used it is
hard to check results by direct
observation of the progeny. An
occasional inbreeding soon
shows up undesirable charac-
teristics ; provided it is done
with care little harm is done.
Inbreeding should always be ac-
companied by the most rigid
selection and culling.*
Outbreeding, or crossbreeding,
may have two aims: to intro-
duce new blood or breed the
best of one strain on to the best
of another. The practice tends
to produce variations in type,
and should only be used when
some new combination of
characteristics is sought. It
should always be followed by
some system of line-breeding,
preferably to the blood of the
favored strain. In this way the
undesirable qualities of the
original strain would be
gradually eliminated.
Humus Is Our Future.
“Jock”: Though the day of
the “soil-miner” is slowly pas-
sing, one still sees the same
paddock cropped biannually, or
even annually, and the stubble
burnt to ashes. Phosphate is
the- only fertiliser necessary to
most Australian soils, except for
small areas needing trace ele-
ments usually zinc, molyb-
denum, copper or cobalt.
Nearly all the marginal and
poor areas of South Australia
show the results of “soil-min-
ing.”
Basis of soil-fertility is humus.
All organic material should be
returned to the soil as far as
practicable ; in the home garden
this is essential. The garden
without a compost heap and
source of animal manure be-
longs to a “soil-miner,” On
large farming areas the job of
supplying humus is apparently
too much, yet in northern S.A.
erosion in the wheat-lands, yel-
low patches in growing crops and
sheep-runs which carry only a
quarter of the original flocks
show all too clearly what is hap-
pening.
Practical sources of humus in
Australia are limited. City
garbage and sewerage, properly
treated, would provide a megli-
gible amount (from Melbourne
enough for 25,000 acres per
annum), farmyard manure is in-
sufficient and the cost of spread-
ing prohibitive. However, we
can stop overstocking, we can
turn-in instead of burning
stubbles, grow more green-
manure crops and use the pas-
ture harrows to spread animal
manure in the paddocks.
Bum Off or Be Burned.
“W. Court”: It ig necessary
to burn the old grass in many
Queensland districts in order to
get a good clean growth of new
grass. If dried-up grass is left
from one year into the next it
may mean a bad fire. The
matted stuff burns with terrific
heat and the flames rage widely.
Furthermore, such grass is
usually ready to burn in winter
or early spring—long before rain
is likely. So after the country
has been burned it may be bare
of grass for many weeks.
No fire is as fierce and hard
to stop in grass of one year’s
growth as it is in two years’ or
more older grass. It takes only
one irresponsible cove on the
edge of a grazing-belt where the
graziers are opposed to fire-
lighting to start a blaze that’ll
clean up all the grass, destroy
fences and timber and greatly
damage the grass roots.
Lightning striking dry trees
will often start grass-fires. My
experience is that grass must be
burned after rain each spring in
Queensland because you’ll
likely be burned out next year
if it isn’t.
A Good Idea.
Created just over
a year ago the Naracoorte (S.A)
Veterinary Lodge now has more
than 300 members. Tire lodge’s
truck, administered by a quali-
fied vet., G. Manefield, operates
in a 25-mile radius. The vehicle
is equipped to make diagnoses
and operations on the spot.
Members pay a flat annual sub-
scription of £3 10s, irrespective
of stock numbers. There is no
mileage charge, but a visiting
fee of 155., revisit 7s. 6d., plus
operation fee. The idea is being
adopted by other south-east
farmers’ committees.
Planting Celery.
“Billjim”: When planting
celery seedlings use the trench
system. Shallow trenches are
preferable where conditions are
dry. Set in double rows 12in,
apart with Sin. between plants.
As rapid growth is necessary for
succulent plants and to cut
down risk of them going to seed
a very rich soil is needed.
Prior to planting broadcast a
fertiliser mixture of equal parts
blood-and-bone and super, plus
5 p.c. muriate of potash, or sul-
phate of potash to lib. per
square yard and worked into the
top 3in. of soil. Never allow
the plants to become dry.
Blanching or excluding sun
from stalks should be done three
weeks before maturity. Surround
each bed with boards lOin. wide.
Lay them flat on either edge of
the path along the rows, force
inside edge against the plants
and then raise the boards to a
vertical position, bringing up all
the outside leaves. Stake the
boards in position. Blanching
can also be done by wrapping
each plant separately with paper,
leaving only the tops exposed.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.A.A.”: For summer
sowing lettuce is best placed in
A permanent bed and thinned
later. Transplanting should not
be attempted in too-hot weather.
From December on to April
sow or plant all vegetables on
the flat and draw the earth up
to them as they grow. This pro-
vides a better surface for arti-
ficial watering and liquid manur-
ing.
“Sundowner”; When prepar-
ing seed-beds for autumn-sown
grass plough in December or
January, preferably while land
is moist after rain. Then sur-
face-cultivate with harrows and
disks and work periodically the
rest of the summer. After this
fallowing, which increases the
nitrogen content of the soil and
brings the land to a high degree
of fertility, grasses and clovers
will make rapid growth.
“Rooster”: When tomatoes
are fruiting' they should be
watered more often. A weekly
application of liquid manure
means larger and better fruit.
Early tomatoes should be har-
vested when evenly colored but
before they are fully ripe;
maturing fruit on the plant is
likely to delay later trusses.
Watch for mosaic disease and
destroy affected plants.
“Big Billy”: In a garden
where space is limited interplant
with quick-maturing vegetables
like lettuce, radish and spinach.
Cabbages, cauliflowers and root
crops may be planted between
rows of maturing potatoes, peas
and beans and pumpkins;
cucumbers and melons between
sweet-corn.
“Charn”: Don’t throw away
old dry-batteries. Burned under
the copper, they provide a good
heat, and the ashes contain zinc,
magnesium, manganese, tin and
lead, also ammonium chloride.
These will supply the garden soil
with valuable trace elements that
may have been lacking. In any
case, none of the oxides of these
metals will do vegetable-growth
any harm.


m
/
OV V
ft#
e ot e^
w° l . ct ..
\v&
a
Whether you are thinking
of buying a washer —or practic-
ally any major domestic appliance
for that matter —you must know before-
* hand what is UNDERNEATH the porcelain
enamel. If yon receive the assurance that the appliance is
built with COMROL STEEL ... you can buy
with absolute confidence. An ap-
pliance constructed from COMROL
Sheet will stand up to everything
the years will bring. It’s the steel
that gives stamina .
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING
MILLS Pry; LTD.
Head Office and Works:
Port Kembla, N.S.W.
STEEL SHEETS FOR INDUSTRY
JOHN LYSASHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED-OENERAL SALES AGENTS.
SYDNEY: 33 Macquarie Place. MELBOURNE: 70-6 A Clarendon Street South
Melbourne. ADELAIDE: f 3 Grenfell Street. BRISBANE: 307-311 Queen
Street. FREMANTLE: Corner of Short and Pakenham Streets. WELLINGTON
NX: John Lysaght's Bristol Works Limited-
m
A
1
m
' a little
.qoesa ,
lonq way!
Says TOMMY
TRINDER:—
"And going round the biggest
chin in show business is a long,
long way. But look, i get 120
cool comfortable shaves from
a 2/- jar of Ingrams. So can
you brother, so can you! You
can buy Ingrams from any
chemist, You Lucky People!"
Mnqram'i
SHAVING CREAM
IMTII. ~ 1
WHHBBMWBWWffA* product 0/ Bristol Myers Pty, Limited . MMMMi
\[ngrams\
wise Guam I
AfcT.U f<«!s■ ,» W
; yr >*
THE
IMMORTAL
TOWNSHIP
By
WILL
LAWSON
THE goldfield of The
Nuggets had been, and still
was, famous as a mining
centre ; but its ambitious
citizens were anxious to make
it something more than that: to
safeguard it, in fact, against the
inevitable end of mining towns,
when the gold petered out.
The township itself was set on
a spur in the Gippsland hills
overlooking a wonderful scene
of valley and range ; dense bush
over all. And it was on this
spur below the town that the
Town Board had secured a grant
of Government land to start a
cemetery. Strange as it may
seem The Nuggets had no ceme-
tery, in fact, never had had one.
Nobody could recall anyone
having died there. It was, of
course, a slur on any go-ahead
place not to have a cemetery.
After the site had been
secured, two old miners, Jim
Daly and Mat Loney, were dis-
cussing the town’s new acquisi-
tion.
“Wonderful view,” Mat said.
“Anyone could be happy there.”
“You needn’t look at me,”
Jim said. “I ain’t dying; not
now, nor never. Why not try it
yourself?”
“What, me die? Rats!” Mat
snorted; then went on, speaking
with some heat. “What I want
to know, who started the idea of
a cemetery in The Nuggets? If
you can call it a cemetery,” he
added. “When it ain’t popu-
lated. Nobody ever dies here,
and I’ve been here thirty year.
Can you remember anyone dyin’
here?”
“Come to think of it, I can’t,”
Jim agreed. “Mebbe the folks
are like the elephants that go
bush to die.” He indicated a
sign across the main street out-
side, the hotel in which they were
drinking.
“Tom Casey, Undertaker .”
“Casey might as well take
down that sign, .He put it up
when the Town Board got the
land for the cemetery.”
“Yes,” Jim agreed. “The
other day I told Tom he was
wasting his time waiting for
work and he said ‘What about
mining accidents? Sooner or
later there’s bound to be an acci-
dent.’
“ ‘Not on an alluvial field,’
I said. Anyway, I have to go
to a meeting of the Town Board
—a special one, to consider
starting the cemetery. So long.”
“Let’s know who you point
the bone at,” Mat called after
him.
I T was a full meeting and the
' members had solemn faces,
as if they were facing a great
crisis.
“Surely to goodness some-
one will be public-spirited
enough to die —for the good
name of The Nuggets,” Larry
James said.
“That’s what I think,”. Daly
agreed. “I made a list of likely
ones,” he went on as he pulled
a strip of paper from his pocket.
“First I had Mat Loney, but I’ve
just seen him and he laughs at
the idea of dyin’. Then there’s
Lem Harris, a mate of Mat’s.
Lem’s ninety-odd, still shovelling
dirt into the sluices. Drinks ten
pints every Saturday—pretty
tough, he is.”
“Don’t sound too promising,”
Dick Sewell, the chairman,
agreed, “Who comes next?”
“Old Mrs. Bryant down in
Old Diggings—been there fifty
years; when the place was just
Old Diggings she come. She
won’t die. Then we have the
Yank” 1 He got no further.
A chorus of voices said “He’ll
never die, Been on the field
sixty years, he claims.”
Jim looked round the faces,
all shook their heads. •
“All right, I’ll wipe the Yank.
What about Bill Black, tlje mail-
driver? That old bus of his must
go haywire on them mountain
roads sometimes . . . I’ll mark
him ‘likely.’ ”
“All right,” the chairman
said. “But who ever heard of
a mail-driver ever being killed!
It’s always the passengers. How-
ever, we’ve got to find someone.
This town’s got to have dignity,
and how can it have that with-
out a cemetery?”
“What we need here are a few
invalids,” Tom Casey declared.
“Invalids? What’s invalids?”
Daly asked.
“Sick people, you know ; one-
leg-in-the-grave stuff,” a member
said.
“That sounds good to me,”
Daly agreed. “Only I never
heard of one of them in The
Nuggets.”
Suddenly Joe Mason, the
town’s wood merchant and
champion weight-lifter at the
local sports meetings, banged his
fist on the table till it jumped.
“What are we wasting time
on the cemetery for? I mean,
what we want to do is advertise
The Nuggets as a health resort,
bring invalids here; some of
’em’s bound to die, sooner or
later. Rich invalids would spend
money here, too. We’ll do up
the pubs and streets.”
It was an idea. They pounced
on it, worked out details and
sent out advertisements reading
like this:
“Come to The Nuggets—
Famous Mountain Health
Resort Where Nobody Ever Dies
—The Nuggets for Romance —
Honeymooners’ Paradise,”
A CTUALLY The Nuggets
C* was full of romance and
well worth seeing. Everybody
who went there got well, too, and
returned again and again. But the
thing that puzzled the visitors
was the complete absence of a
cemetery. In fact, they did not
believe the town people’s state-
ment that they had no cemetery,
and went looking for it. All
they found was the land reserved
for such an amenity.
The townspeople’s hopes rose
when an old gentleman arrived
in a bath-chair. Eyes would
follow him speculatively as he
was pushed along the main street
by his daughter. But nothing
happened. He got well and
departed, leaving the town
fathers with their old problem
still unsolved. Sometimes a
citizen having drinks with a mate
would say to him,
“Jerry, what about you being
first man in?”
“First man in where —you
mean when the pubs open in
the morning?”
“No, I was thinking of —never
mind.”
“You mean into the cemetery?
Not a hope. Have another.”
“The Place Where Nobody
Dies —Shangri-la in Gippsland —
Come to The Nuggets and Live
for Ever.” Such slogans became
. known all over Australia. The
Nuggets grew and grew, but not
a soul slipped off this mortal
coil.
ONE day the Town Board was
sitting when Jim Daly came
in late with exciting news. Lem
Harris had died, he said.
“Him?” Dick Sewell was
aghast. “Why, we reckoned he
would live for ever. Must have
been 92 at least.”
Tom Casey bustled from his
seat to get his hat. He had busi-
ness at last. As he went out he
ran into Mat Loney and told
him the news.
“I don’t believe it,” Mat de-
clared. “What, old Lem? Why,
I worked with him as a lad
nearly sixty years ago. Him
die? Rats!”
But there it was, and there was
Lem lying very quietly in the
coffin Tom Casey had provided
while the gravedigger was dig-
ging the first grave in the ceme-
tery.
It was stupendous news. No
longer could they advertise that
nobody could die in The Nug-
gets, And now that this thing
had happened, which the Town
Board had wanted so badly, no-
body but Tom Casey was
pleased. Only Mat Loney still
insisted that Lem was not dead.
“Just tuckered out, like,” Mat
said. “Let him lay a few days
and he’ll be right. Lem’s too
tough to die like that.”
BUT, of course, that sort of
thing could not go on for
ever. Lem was laid in his coffin,
still looking just like his old self,
and on the night before the
funeral was to take place, some
of his old friends gathered to
give him a send-off, what might
be called a wake. In the other
room of his shack they drank to
his memory and told tales of old
Lem. But Mat did not stay
long with them. He filled a
glass with raw whisky and went
and sat by Lem’s coffin, sipping
his drink; and presently he
leaned forward and held the
glass to Lem’s still lips.
“Have a drink, old mate,” he
said. Maybe Mat was a bit
drunk, to do a thing like that.
Lem made no sign. So Mat put
the glass to his lips again, saying
“Quit foxing, old-timer. Have
a snort.”
Somebody called to Mat just
then from inside. When he
turned again Lem was sitting up
with the empty tumbler in his
hand and saying,
“That’s good grog. Another
won’t do any harm.”
Mat sat and stared at him. In
spite of his oft-expressed belief
that Lem was not dead, now that
Lem had come back to life he
was speechless.
“What’s up with you?” Lem
said. He was shivering and still
holding out the tumbler for
more grog. Then he saw the
coffin. “Here, what’s this old
sluice-box you’ve put me in,
damn you?” His teeth chat-
tered. “I’m freezing,” he said.
“Mat, you fool, get me out some
clothes. Must’ve been pretty
bad to shed all my togs and go
to sleep in a riffle-box.”
In a daze, Mat hurried to do
as he was bid, and soon had
Lem clothed again and out of
the coffin. Inside the room
where the men were, Joe Mason
said “Listen to Mat talking to
old Lem. He still don’t believe
he is dead.”
“Poor old Mat,” Daly agreed.
“He’ll be the next —I’ll just
mark him on my list. He must
be very drunk to be arguing like
that with a dead man.”
Mat dressed Lem in warm
clothes and an overcoat, got him
on his feet and steadied him as
he walked ; and they went up
the road to the nearest hotel.
Mat wanted to give Lem a good
meal and some whisky to warm
his heart, for he had had noth-
ing for two days- But Lem was
tough and walked quite well,
swearing a bit.
It was a noble thought of
Mat’s to do this with Lem, but
it almost led to the wholesale
insanity of a dozen good men
when they came to get Mat and
found that both he and the dead
man had gdne. It was a terrible
shock to them.
AFTER that Tom Casey took
down his undertaker’s sign,
and the Town Board made the
cemetery site into a park for old
people. Nobody ever died in
The Nuggets, not even invalids,
least of all old miners. Shangri-
la they still call the place in
the Monaro, but it’s no good
looking for it now. Only the
old hands can tell you where it
stood.. ‘i


dsf
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cl high-priced imported
machines at only a trac-
tion ot their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing, Plans,
Music, etc.
BuiLt entirely In Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Oittributing Agents
SYDNEY W. C. Penfold A Co. Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE . Norman Bros. Pty Ltd,
ADELAIDE • ” Vardon A Sons Ltd.
FERTU • Docket Booh Co. (Aast.)
STOPvow Rupture
d
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and H Days’ Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
H FINE HOFEI
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney *
leading hotels, tut different to
every otter in many ttings. The
Wentworth, for instance, tas ever
teen noted for its quiet restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
bustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
IHE WEHEWOBFH
in
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE
FARM.” —A thousand ways of im-
proving yields. Published by “The
Bulletin.” Price 1/-.
Ya
m
m
i
W"
PfsT
°'sri
Pi
8
i
******<&*
FOR ACCESS ...
“At every re-union with Army Club,” said the Major,
“you’ll pass a vote of thanks for the zipper that
fastens the outer ‘Cellophane’ cellulose film. One
tug and the way is clear for the immediate enjoyment
of that full-bodied Virginia blend, ripened by sun,
mellowed by time and rolled in
tasteless, inkless ‘filigrained’ rice
paper”.
i
10 for 1/lh 20 for 2/3
and proudly made in
: Australia
Club*
rmy
AN
BE A
Smoke the Cigarette containing Rich Golden Leaf, R'pened by Sun, Mellowed by Time
AC-449 . . ■■■—
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To get in touch with collectors of
cigarette-cards.—4768.
Words of Langdon Smith’s poem
“Evolution,” beginning: —
When you were a tadpole and I was a fish
In Paleozoic time.
—4769.
Words and music of the song “The
Road to the Isles.” —4770.
To buy copy of A Lindsay of the
Dale by A. G. (“Smiler”) Hales. —
4771.
Words of parody on Henry Law-
son’s “The Captain of the Push.” —
4772.
Does Anybody Know?
When were spiked shoes first used
for footrunning and when and by
whom was the crouch style of start
first introduced for such races? —
4773.
Information Sought.
Directions for the coloring of a
meerschaum pipe?
This is the simplest method: Fill
the pipe and smoke down about
one-third, or to the height to which
you wish to color. Leave the re-
mainder of the tobacco in the pipe
and do not empty or disturb it for
several weeks, or until the desired
color is obtained. When smoking,
put fresh tobacco on the top and
smoke to the same level. Continue
until the desired shade results. This
treatment is for genuine meerschaum;
synthetics may behave unexpectedly.
A new meerschaum should never be
smoked out of doors in very cold
weather.
* * * *
From what sources is the Constitu-
tion of N. S. Wales derived ?
From several diverse sources, viz.,
certain Imperial statutes, such as the
Colonial Laws Validity Act (1865)
and the Commonwealth of Australia
Constitution Act (1900); the Aus-
tralian States Constitutional Act,
1907; the Letters Patent and the
Instructions to the Governor; an
element of inherited English law;
amendments to the Commonwealth
of Australia Constitution Act; cer-
tain State statutes; numerous legal
decisions; and a large element of
English and local convention.
* * * *
(1) Meaning of the term “hygro-
scopic vehicle” used in connection
with paints? (2) Difference between
boiled and raw linseed oil ? (3) Is
boiled or raw oil used in making
putty ? (4) Should boiled oil be. used
for interior house-painting?
(1) The liquid portion of a paint
which would allow moisture to pass
through it after it had become a dried
film. (2) Raw linseed oil is material
extracted from the flax seed. Boiled
linseed oil is the raw linseed oil, but
it has been treated by heat and had
catalytic materials added tp it to
promote a more rapid drying and
increase the viscosity of the oil. (3)
Raw oil is generally used. (4) Boiled
oil can be used.
* * * *
Recipe for making fig jam that will
not go mouldy on top when stored in
jars that are well sealed down ?
Mould is caused by insufficient
cooking, excess water not being
driven off; when properly cooked,
jam should be dry and glazed on
surface when cooled. Fruit should
be ripe, but firm. Cut off the stalks
and eyes of figs, halve them, and
if very large divide into quarters.
Allow |lb. sugar to every pound of
fruit. Sprinkle part of sugar over cut
fruit and allow to stand all night.
Next day add remainder of sugar
and juice of three lemons to every
51b. fruit. Bring to the boil and boil
until it “jells,” approximately three-
quarter hour. Mid-season or second-
crop figs make best jam. Allow jam
to cool thoroughly before sealing.
* * * *
Who was Ossian ?
A legendary Gaelic bard and
warrior of about the third century
and reputed author of a group of
poems, published (1760-63) by James
Macpherson, who professed that he
had translated them from manuscripts
collected in the Highlands. A great
controversy as to the authenticity of
the supposed originals was aroused.
It was soon generally agreed that
Macpherson, although compiling from
ancient sources, was the principal
author of the poems as published.
* * * *
Why are the Chinese sometimes
called the sons of Han?
They are so-called from Han, the
village in which Lieou-pang was
chief. Lieou-pang conquered all who
opposed him, seized the supreme
power, assumed the name of Kao-
hoangtze, and the dynasty, which
lasted 422 years, was the “fifth
imperial dynasty, or that of Han.
With his dynasty the modern history
of China begins.
* * * *
How did the stormy petrel get its
name ? „ .
A small sea-bird ( Procellana
pelagicd), it was so named, according
to tradition, from the Italian Petrello,
“little Peter,” because during storms
it seems to fly patting the water with
each foot alternately, as though talk-
ing on it. The allusion is to St.
Peter, who walked on the Lake or
Gennesareth. Sailors call these birds
“Mother Carey’s chickens.” The
term is used figuratively of one whose
coming always portends trouble, one
who can be calculated to “raise Cain
wherever he goes or whatever he does.
* * * *
What was the Satanic school of
writers ? .
A name given to a group of writers
in the early part of the 19th century
who were said to show a scorn for
all moral rules and the generally-
received dogmas of the Christian
religion. The most eminent English
writers of this school were Bulwer
Lytton, Byron, Moore and Shelley.
Of French writers the leaders were
Paul de Kock, Rousseau, Georges
Sand and Victor Hugo. The term
was first used by Southey in the
preface of his Vision of Judgment
(1822).
Brief Answers.
J.A.M.: (1) Federal elections were
held on September 21, 1940, and
August 21, 1943. (2) C. A. Morgan
was M.H.R. for Reid, 1940-1946... .
C.L.H.: The men employed, it is
true, are “casual,” but, as they are
employed for the purposes of a trade
or business carried on by the em-
ployer, he would be liable to pay
compensation in the event of injury.
The employer should, therefore, ob-
tain a policy of insurance as pre-
scribed by the Act....G.8.: “No
through road” is merely a warning.
“No thoroughfare” is usually used to
indicate that land is privately owned
or the subject of a private right-of-
way or easement and is not open
for use to the public... .J. 8.: The
Seven Seas are the Arctic, Antarctic,
North Pacific, South Pacific, North
Atlantic, South Atlantic and Indian
Oceans R.J.K.; Verb. sap. is an
abbreviation of the Latin verbum
sapienti (“a word to the wise”),
meaning a hint is sufficient to any
wise man; a threat implying “If the
hint is not taken I will expose you.
. ...F.W.P.: “Harry Castlemon” was
the pseudonym of Charles Austin
Fosdick (1842-1915), an American
author who wrote boys’ books,
including Frank on the Lower
Mississippi and Frank Nelson on the
Forecastle... .H.M.; The real name
of “The Artful Dodger” in Dickens’s
Oliver Twist was Jack Dawkins.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor.
M.M.: Nothing new in “Jim
Crow”... .8.L.: “Oh, Time, why
dost thou scurry by?” Well, wouldn’t
you if anybody spoke to you like
that? C.G.D.: At the place where
you got to man’s will being “primed
with biased Chance’s fuel” our in-
terest ran out of petrol... .P.R.E.:
“Intimations of Infinity” came to a
hasty end... .Julius: Only appro-
priate comment on poem entitled
“Think!?” is ?!.... M.H.: The
place-names in “The Wagoners” are
pleasing, but the verse is rough, and
lacks color.. ..F.R.: Except for the
information that your soul reaches
feverishly out the window it is the
usual dawn-poem J.R.: Frankly,
Phoebe means nothing to us now
T.J.8.:
Oft have I watched those billows sweep
Across that vast, expansive deep,
And wonder why it is they never cease.
It is the agitation of the wind and
the movement of the tide L.L.H.:
Some feeling in “Night,” but you
write with a heavy hand W.E.8.:
Harrowingly hackneyed A.H.:
Conventional piece, pleasantly turned.
Blue Gum: A leading-article in
verse B.O’B.: Tell your friends
that The Bulletin liked the last line
of it 8.J.L.: “I offer the season s
greetings and—‘Conjecture.’ ” We
return the greetings and, alas — Con-
jecture” .... J.M.: Sad story about
the swagman and the pup made us
sob bitterly.... J.C.: A glimmer in
both, but why do you rhyme “same
with “rain” in one poem and
“plain” with “fame” in the other?
... .Bellerive: Gallop on: —
... .H. 8.: Try “Wild Star” and “Ide
Island” on a woman’s paper
H.E.G.: You are doubly an optimist
thinking we will print that poem;
and yet, for the sake of the maids
of Bathurst, here you go:
Weep not, you maids of Bathurst;
Nor matrons, at this hour,
For on the next election day
Ben Chifley will return to power.
. ...K.A.S.: It has two lines that
mean anything—“ The whitened rise
of a soaring gum” and “The yellow
waves in the ripening crop”—and the
rest is words... .W.R.: If you keep
at it you might swim in... .M.J.K.:
If “Granny Herald” has shocked you
by using the slang term “cocked a
snook” you must admit that it is so
much out-of-date that it has become
respectable... .L.K.8.: Poets,_ like
roosters, all say the same thing at
dawn S.S.: “Poetry or not?
Well, neither. ...N.0.H.: Ever read
the annual Australian Poetry?
W.G.P.: A genuine bush ballad, but
you’re somewhat bushed in it your-
self H. J.: Sing-song Hobble:
Whatever it’s all about you’d better
come in and get it off your chest:
It’s time about to stage a halt
Restrain the Dumbell gee,
Where ads acclaim her use immense
We fail to all agree,
Baneful features every lapse
The villain stalking me!
....L.G.C.: Too much verbiage in
them and not enough place M.C.:
Both lightweights D. 8.: Some
humor in the pup, but the verse is
too labored and mechanical A.F.;
Incredibly illegible... .G.D.S.: Picture
of husband as an old spoon fails to
stir J.LeM.; There’s always a
danger of sentimentality when you try
to personify trees E. 8.: “I submit
two poems, typed, double-spaced
and short.” At least they have the
virtues of being typed, double-spaced
and short.... L.C.W.: Call again.
R.D.M.: Gerringong monster not
quite convincing; the verse facile
R.C.8.: Lindbergh poem reads like
an echo of Day Lewis on Parer and
Mclntosh A. 8.: “Reflections in a
Beer Mug” unworthy of its salubrious
title K.E.H.: Nothing distinctive
in “The Ocean”... .J.G.0.; Out, out
“Brief Candle,” It’s but a walking
shadow. -
FAMOUS RACEHORSES OF THE PART.
I look back to old days
Of Flemington course,
And recall to my memory
Many a victorious horse.
Commotion, Sheet Anchor,
Prince Foote and The Grafter
And galloping wonders
Which shone out after.
In far away England
The great Carbine died.
The gem of the turf
And Australia’s pride.
Later Night Patrol, a
Former grand horse,
Reigned with the best.
Of Flemington course.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
S
“Mozzer” (B. 11/1/ ’5O) doesnt know
the principles of salvage awards.
When a ship breaks down she may be
in no immediate danger. It is her master,
versed in the ways of weather and other
potential hazards to a vessel not under
command, and in the laws and principles
of salvage, who decides whether his ship
is in danger or potential danger, or
whether commercial practice (the under-
writers pay) will make it more profitable
to his employers to accept the services of
a salvor than to drift while endeavoring
to get his ship into commission again.
In the cited case of the Lambrook, the
time taken to effect repairs when in port
is beside the point. Her master decided
(and anyone who has commanded a ship
will agree that only her master can hope
to form a true judgment) that during the
estimated time of completing repairs at
sea, supposing that such could be done,
his ship might be endangered from one
of several hazards.
Claims by tug-owners and the seamen’s
union for definite sums are no guide as
to what will be paid. Salvage awards
are not a matter of bargaining in such
a manner, but are usually the result of
salvor and salvaged having agreed to
Lloyd’s “no-cure-no-pay” agreement,
which, in the case of unsuccessful
attempts at rescue, can involve hard work,
great expense and risk without any re-
turn whatsoever. Lloyd’s agreement
was drawn up by legal experts for that
most respected house of business. A
judge specialising in marine law, ably
assisted if need be by assessors experi-
enced in command of ships, makes the
awards accordingly.
Neither the tug-owner nor the seamen
had knowledge of Lambrook’s value as a
salvaged vessel when they served their
writs, and so their claims being for
definite amounts instead of simply being
claims for salvage awards merely show
a lack of knowledge of the business side
of the operation.
When a judge decides upon the amount
payable, he awards it in shares. The
following is the basic method; Firstly,
the cost of performing the job is deducted
to reimburse the owner of the salvor for
what he has laid out. This can be a
large amount. The remainder is divided
into fifths. Two-fifths go to the salvor’s
owner, one-fifth to her master, and the
remaining two-fifths are divided among
the crew members in varying proportions
according to rank. If, in the light of
certain circumstances, the judge considers
it warranted, he will deviate from this
method.
It is true that in some cases salvage
awards prove ta .be “money for jam.'’
There are cases, also, concerning which
any fair-minded person will agree that
the amount has been well earned. Any-
one who recalls seeing the film “San
Demetrio, London,” a true war-time
adventure, will agree that the sums paid
were well merited by those men who,
while fully realising that they were
hazarding their safety in a desperate
venture which they could have declined
to take on, nevertheless saw the job
through. The judge, at the conclusion of
the hearing, praised those men highly for
their efforts. Even in peace-time salvage
cases —they are not everyday occur-
rences —can involve great risk to salvors
and their crews, especially as they are
likely to occur in fierce weather condi-
tions.
Awards do not necessarily involve
fortunes. In a quarter of a century at
sea, I have been involved in the salvag-
ing of only one vessel (one of about seven
hundred tons), I waited two years for
the settlement of the case. My share
amounted to 335. 4d.
“Mozzer’s” remarks about a garage-
man not requiring salvage for rescuing
a car do not apply to marine salvage. If
a car breaks down, it has only to be
pushed into the side of the road by its
driver and it is neither exposed to danger
nor the cause of traffic hold-ups. The
garageman takes none of the risks of
the seafarer.
Salvage is not “just an old habit or
law of the sea,” nor is it a form of black-
mail, as are some cases of seamen’s and
wharfies’ demands for danger money. It
is a just settlement of a claim made
according to businesslike principles by
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2 jd. per line.
an impartial court of law. : In the case
of a naval vessel salvaging a merchant
vessel or vice versa, there is not, under
normal circumstances, any award pay-
able—Tackline S. (N.S.W.).
Power from the Sea
Michael Sawtell’s suggestion that North
Australian tides with their 39ft. rise and
fall might be harnessed to produce
electric power (B. 11/l/’5O) is imprac-
tical and dismissed by all hydroelectric
engineers.
No doubt tides could be harnessed to
produce power on a very, very small
scale, but the cost would be prohibitive
for the amount of power obtained.
The basis of all electrical power-
generation is the alternator which, revolv-
ing at several thousand revs, per minute,
produces the power. Either steam or
water can be used to produce the energy
for revolving the machine.
Heavy pressure of water is necessary
in any hydro scheme. Normally it is at
the bottom of a waterfall. In the Kiewa
hydroelectric scheme now under con-
struction in Victoria, pressure is increased
by letting the water flow down steep
underground tunnels up to 20ft. wide.
That pressure could not be obtained
from the sea, as tides move slowly and
do not have any usable pressure that
could be harnessed.
One of Australia’s greatest electrical
engineers laughed when told recently he
should harness the flow in the Rip at the
“A good idea, Mr. Smith —one for the road.”
mouth of Port Phillip Bay. “It might
come one day, but to me it’s a physical
impossibility,” he said, Waddlin’
Willie (Vic.).
Blair Athol Coal
If any further explanation of the Blair
Athol fiasco in Queensland is called for
it should come, not so much from
Premier Hanlon as from the peahen Press,
whose wild enthusiasm for the scheme led
to the building of the house of cards
which has since collapsed. What Hanlon
should be asked to explain is why Blair
Athol had to be left out of the Powell
Duffryn report —why every reference to
Australia’s biggest potential producer had
to be erased from that voluminous work
at the last moment, thus leaving it, in its
emasculated state, hardly worth the paper
it was printed on.
The failure had nothing to do with
politics, labor or the Corns. Put in
its simplest form, the answer is this:
Blair Athol lies in almost uninhabited
country, hundreds or thousands of miles
from a market, and to land the coal at
those markets at an economical price,
everything, including output, would have
to be on a gigantic scale. It calls for,
among other things, a large town with
a correspondingly large water-supply, a
very high capacity railway to the coast,
combined with equally large port, storage
and shipping facilities. The cost of these
things has been variously estimated at
from £2O to £3O million, and that outlay
would call for a minimum tonnage of
3} million annually.
The unpleasant truth is that there isn’t
a market anywhere capable of absorbing
that quantity. I know it sounds silly
today when there exists a really desperate
shortage all over the world, but the matter
has been fully explored by the people
most capable of doing it, and their view
is that they could not sell sufficient to
justify the capital expenditure. Small-
scale operation is economically imprac-
ticable, freight charges being several
times the cost of actual production.
During the year 1948-49 output was
112,000 tons, on which an average freight
charge of £2 2s, was levied. If you take
a figure of per ton-mile as the lowest
at which the department can handle this
one-way traffic and make a profit, the loss
in hauling to Rockhampton would be Bs.
a ton. Port Alma 14s. 3d., Gladstone £1
Os. 6d. To Brisbane, where a lot of the
stuff did go, freight would be about £6
12s. a ton, and to the obvious answer
that it would naturally be sent from the
nearest port by sea I’d point out that
“cheap” sea-freights are not common
on the Australian coast.
If Hanlon cared to spend a few million
on the rail facilities existing—and it would
be cheaper than a new 160-mile line
through Mackay—he could cut the
haulage cost in half, but even then he
could not land the coal in southern
markets in competition with N. S. Wales
production.
There’s one answer to the problem, and
it would help not only Blair Athol a.nd
Queensland but the entire Australian
economy, and that would be to restrict
the use of imported oil in all those power-
houses, sugarmills and pumping-stations
where coal could be used, But, as recent
events have shown, nothing would be
more likely to result in civil strife than
such an attempt to interfere with the
Australian citizen’s divine right to use
as much oil as he pleases. Trans-
porticus (Singapore).
Cement
Queensland Premier Hanlon has just
said that huge quantities of cement are
to be imported from overseas countries,
including Japan, which can export
thousands of tons immediately.
In far North Queensland (Chillagoe)
there is enough limestone and clay for
manufacturing all the cement needed in
Australia for a lifetime. The Mt.
Mulligan coal deposits—equal to any
produced in the country when clean —are
only 80 miles away by rail. The only in-
gredient not in abundant supply is the
much-debated gypsum, but that deficiency
is highly overrated, as only a very small
percentage is required to retard the set-
ting. Gypsum could easily be imported
from other States.
The Government has been asked to
establish cement works at Chillagoe, and
main excuse for not doing so is that the
town is too far from coastal markets to be
an economical proposition ; any school-
child knows that it would be further to
Japan.
Another point made against works at
Chillagoe is the plant to be established
at Stuart, Townsville, but when that plant
is built its entire output will be needed
for the Burdekin dam and will not
be of any great benefit to the north for a
considerable time. —J. B. M. (Q.).
Changing Values
I see that according to one C. D. Kemp,
director of the Institute 'of Public Affairs
in Melbourne, the value of the pound
has dropped to 7s. 6d. since 1900. In
1900 I got my first job—timekeeper to
a stevedoring company in Port Adelaide.
The work involved stuffing my pockets
with hundreds of notes and coin and
going off to steamers and windjammers,
getting the wharfies mustered and paying
them their weekly wage.
Sometimes I had to go down into the
dark holds and call out the names of men
with bales of cargo swinging round my
head, and it didn’t matter what name was
called out a dozen grimy hands would
be thrust out of the darkness —a kindly
foreman advised me to bring my cus-
tomers out into the light and let him
identify them. One of the windjammers
had once been skippered by a certain
Joseph Conrad. I loved ships and I loved
the job, and the only thing I didn’t like
was keeping the firm’s ledgers, because
arithmetic wasn’t my strong point. On
Fridays the manager sat at a table
covered with money and handed out their
wages to more brawny lumpers through
a little window. There was a revolver
in his drawer, and whenever he went out
for a snifter I was left in charge and felt
very proud of my responsible position.
My salary was 7s. 6d. a week, and I
had to provide my own transport, an
aged pushbike. I used to spend lunch-
time adding up the columns in the ledger
a hundred times from top to bottom and
bottom to top, and then, when the two
results eventually coincided, I would write
the figure down at the bottom in faint
pencil. When the boss came in I would
rapidly run my eye down a column and
write the total down in ink; he was so
impressed by my ability as a mathe-
matician that he told me, when I left for
a better job three months later, that if I
had stayed with him he would have made
me into a first-class accountant and I
might have attained to the position of
my predecessor, who drew £3 a week at
60 and had kept a wife and family of
four in reasonable comfort.
The other day two of my young
nephews decided to spend their Christ-
mas holidays earning a bit of money, and
one got a job at a city emporium at £6
a week and the other got one on the rail-
ways at £7 10s. Another friend of mine
took a hammer, about the only tool he
knew how to handle, and applied for the
job of carpenter at a girls’ school at £l2
a week and got it.
All the same, nobody seems to be much
better off now than most were in my day.
Tea in those days cost Is. 3d. a pound,
boiled fowl Is. Id., good English hams
were Is. 2d, and 20 English cigarettes
cost threepence. You could buy a bottle
of Scotch for 3s. 6d., a suit for 12s. 6d.
and travel from Australia to England for
£l4. My father reared a family of four,
giving them the conventional education
and an annual month’s holiday at the
seaside, and got my elder brother into the
university and a profession.
We didn’t have electric light, gas, air-
conditioning or refrigerator, but we had
nice kerosene-lamps, my mother made
enough jam in the copper to last the year
out from the fruit growing in our back-
yard, and we had an immense cool cellar
hung with homemade Christmas pud-
dings, hams and cheeses and shelves
loaded with hop-beer, real beer, honey-
mead and lemon-syrup. We had a
servant at Bs. a week. My father smoked
excellent tobacco and had a bottle of
beer at dinner, and he even had money
for speculation and bought land in remote
but coming districts which turned out to
be no good, and Broken Hill South shares
which turned out so good that they have
since repaid the capital outlay a hundred
times over —the annual dividend is, I be-
lieve, still more than the original invest-
ment.
He did it all on £4 a week.—Strict
Veg. (Vic.).
Asia
“D.H.” (B. 21/12/ ’49) is correct in his
facts but erratic in his conclusions. He
confuses evolution with devolution. The
Nordics are palefaced because they have
lost their pigmentation and thin-lipped
because they have shed their labial thick-
ness.
The Asiatics, during thousands ot
years, discovered such things as the lode-
stone, gunpowder and the art of printing,
but failed to put them to much practical
use. The Europeans, though late starters
in the march of progr&s, were more
versatile and inventive, and in a few cen-
turies became the leaders in mental and
material achievement. The wise men may
have originally come from the East to
spread their wisdom. The spreading is
now done from the West. The Chinese
taught us how to fly kites and send up
rockets. The White Devils are now teach-
ing them how to fly rocket-planes.
These results are not caused by cranial
measurements, but by geographical and
climatic conditions. A Tibetan infant
could become a Grand Lama, an atomic
scientist, or a jazz trumpeter if given the
relevant training and habitat. Neither
mental nor physical characteristics are an
index to character. . .
There are superior and mrenor
members of every race. They should be
judged as individuals, not by the merits
or demerits of their ancestors nor by the
evidence that their suntan is deliberately
acquired or is part of their tribal heritage.
—J. Wilson (S.A.), j


ntmipc are f
sort out and, except in the case of Max
aS’efta of rST. ssf. " t
p i, Bernard Hall on the
jVlelooume Gallery school, where the
writer is aroused to temperate criticism,
each artist is allowed as it wprp tn sneak
for himself Tt is f 1 IV / P *
lor himself. It is a chance artists do not
otten get; and for many of Mr. Bad-
ham’s practitioners as he himself is well
aware, it may never rnmp aoain rw is
ala d to so/ g
glad m see any sincere effort thus
chronicled.
Where Mr. Badham has merely repeated
names and achievements out of William
Arnr.ro. it rrm T , lUi uul , wiiiidm
Moore it is dimcult to see much value in
his book ; but Moore stopped at 1934,
and there have been manv new names
since then snmo ,
II ixTortl-. ’ j 6 or ‘-b discussing and
ail wonn recording in a general survey of
this kind. William Dobell to take the
most prominent example, appears in The
Vtnrv nf a * , • 7.
bt ry j Australian Art only in one line
recording him as a winner of the travel-
ling scholarship. Mr. Badham has in-
creased that to two pages, in which, with-
out surrendering to the popular over-
praising of Dobell that led Bernard Smith
into the incredible statement that “his
[Dobell’s] technical resources are greater
than Lambert’s,” he gives a just and
generous account of this painter’s fine
achievement; —-
He has some affinity with th® Dutch
Masters... .Dobell’s work springs
trom the purest well of inspiration,, for the
propaganda content m art is an alien thing,
and, except in the hands of those who
take indignation for their life’s guiding
it: can . do Mtde to enrich the
personal expression. If he had been a
novelist, Dobell would, perhaps, have
belonged to the psychological “school” of
writers, for he sets down without comment
or moral judgment the painted evidence of
men s souls, revealing the spirit rather than
the flesh of their activities. It is possible
that Dobell’s best pictures are those of
the genre type—Cockneys frolicking on
Hampstead Heath, impudent, dirty children
who should be thoroughly spanked, the
pathetically grotesque dead landlord and
nis distracted wife who, in brushing her
hair beside the poor body, is obeying an
instinct which is as o,a as womankind
itself, transcending the deepest grief, death,
and manifesting the subconscious urge to
live. Tragi-comic flotsam on the limitless
ness of
Lance Solomon, again, is too young
an artist to have appeared at all in
Moore’s history, and is too much con-
cemed with the bush and the sea—
though these are surely still as much a
part of our lives as are our iron
foundries—to be “real” enough for Mr.
Smith. Mr. Badham does not pause to
point out the special significance of Lance
Solomon’s close-up studies of the bush
and of the wild surf bursting on our
coasts, in which we may simultaneously
perceive the Australian mind coming into
more intimate relationship with its
environment and a development from the
landscape tradition of Gruner and
Streeton, who were chiefly occupied with
open country or the great spacious vistas
of mountain and sea observed from a
distance. But Lance Solomon does at
least appear in A Study of Australian Art
and not without appreciation:
Lance Solomon’s technique, with which
he finds the subtleties of recession in the
u/ ist +n C f s a F dt \A/ I -n bly ’ is T r f metici ?-
lous man that of Williams. Solomon is
less concerned with pigmental appearance
than with the finely-literal translation of
natural fact—he gives us an intriguing
°cvnfwJe T. lth ™ tldn f toda P
popular syntheses or personal mterpreta-
tions.... He won the landscape travelling
scholarship in 1939 and the Wynne Prize
In 1946>
Yet another artist who does not appear
in Moore, and with whom Mr. Badham
deals at some length, is Russell Drysdale.
We ma y n °l e tit this analysis the critic
struggling with the academic historian in
?^ r - Badham and out of the struggle, as
* n 80 man y other instances, an admirably-
bala"ced amount of the artist emerging:
wS
stresses a quality of the Never-Never Land
hitherto untouched. His subject is largely
(J 16 . drab hopelessness of farming folk
destined to spend their days on a soil
devastated by erosion. The smiling moods
Of Streeton, Heysen and Gruner and the
other landscapists of former years play not
the slightest part in these pictures, which
*l ave deliberately chosen misery for their
theme - This constitutes an aspect of life
in Australia—or life anywhere for that
matter—which is legitimate material for the
artist, since obviously no country is all
and ho " ey i ‘' ,But dis P°/ Slble tbat
landscape with gloom as its motif may also
be too frequently administered to a public
already confused, as each artist tries to
outdo the other with painted desolation
and hopelessness. One well-known fashion-
able painter announced recently that his trip
to the country was intended to destroy thd
“myth” of the gum-tree and Heysen. But
l et / im , bewar s ? f the inevitable swing of
fashion’s pendulum when, perhaps, the
“myth” of the gum-tree and Heysen will
give place to the “myth” of gloom and
himself.
In his commentaries, whether critical
or encyclopaedic, on these and scores of
other contemporary artists of all schools
from the most conservative to the most
extreme, Mr. Badham does, of course,
detach his book from William Moore's,
It is a supplement to Moore, with the
added attraction of comment by a
generally moderate, sympathetic and well-
balanced critic who, though open-
minded towards exneriment at all times
1111.I 111 . ed towards experiment, at an limes
insists on the importance of craftsman-
ship. He is able to add to Moore’s
chapter on the aborigines the astounding
etnrv of Albert TVamatiira • and where
s , ry 0t Aber ~ , and, wnere
tne question of using aboriginal designs
as a basis for general Australian art —
a subject of great contemporary interest
_ ari ' : n hk rm Marnaret Preston
, ariBes m , 18 notes on Margaret Preston,
he offers the very necessary warning:
There is undeniable refreshment in
judicious use of this aspect of a primitive
culture, but it can, in all reasonable truth,
hold but fragments of its pristine inten-
tion—fragments which may, through repeti-
tion and function moulded by an alien
setting, bore to insufferable tears,
„ «... . ...
So, too, once ne is free from the earliest
period, when there is little critical
comment worth making, and where he
closely follows his predecessor, does Mr.
Badham appear as an independent
wrde , r whenever he criticises as well as
mer£ ly chronicling a painting or an artist,
Evei ? when hls Figment coincides with
William Moore s, as often it does, this is
a fresh evaluation, and it is always worth
reading because Mr. Badham demon-
grates time and again his knowledge and
his general good taste.
There are instances, of course, when
one disagrees with his verdicts. Possibly
he has a preference for oils over water-
colors, or possibly he is a little influenced
by the diatribes of the daily newspapers,
for his comments on Hilder—“a series of
slight watercolors that depend for their
charm on an evanescent romantic quality,
rare in a world of robust realism. They
W£ re very popular in their period and the
author was hailed as a master of his
medium. They have not stood the test of
time, however, and seem pale evasions
alongside the work of today”—are less
than just. Time, as Mr. Badham reminds
some later artists, is not yet finished ;
j T ru 9 1 -n 1
and Hilder s work will surely come to
be appreciated again in the terms of Mary
Gilmore’s noble eulogy, quoted by
William Moore: “He made the golden
■ c , j ••« , . „ £ ° ..
air of th l s land vislble to all of us > as ll
was to him.”
Yet neither the dismissal of Hilder nor
the attack on Norman Lindsay is in
accord with the general spirit of this
book, which is at once receptive to the
new in art and staunchly faithful to the
traditional, and which is best exemplified
in the evaluations of Streeton and Tom
Roberts:
Streeton’s New South Wales period saw
his artistic coming-of-age To this period
belong “Purple Noon’s Transparent Light”
[sic; the last word should be “Might”—the
quotation is from Shelley] and “The
Hawkesbury Valley,” both realisations of
the nobility of the lovely Hawkesbury
district, and, more than this, both solving
nature’s most difficult and elusive prob-
lem—the almost vertical play on hills and
plains of stark sunlight at noon. Here was
no gentle subject for the painter of the
evening reverie or the rose-tinted glow of
the morning, and the capacity of the
Streeton of those days lies in that he
transformed, without precedent, the in-
sistent prose of the subject into robust and
pure poetry. “Redfern Railway Station”
also belongs to this period.... a delicate
and lovely piece of work bearing still the
imprint of Whistler and the light charm
of the Japanese print. With a more
vigorous approach and presaging the tur-
bulent confidence of his maturity, followed
“Cremorne Pastoral,” “Gloucester Buckets”
and “Fire’s On.”
Tom Roberts was interested in Australian
life, especially that of the outback, and he
produced the first large pictures of genre,
in company with Frederick McCubbin,
painted here. His contribution to our art
m this field is, in all likelihood, the most
important of its kind.... The passing years
have brought new aims for the artist, and
fickle taste has decreed that light, art’s
former mistress, is nothing but a worthless
hussy. But pictures do not necessarily
need the element of stygian dusk to pass
the tests of time; the joy of their creators
in their production can be transferred to
the beholder, if it be strong enough, and
joy is the eternal evidence of well-being.
So long as men are capable of joy, the art
of Tom Roberts will have a place in the
gallery of Australian achievement.
Mr. Badham’s book will probably be
too much used as a substitute for William
Moore, which one cannot but regret. Yet
in its own right it still deserves to be very
widely read, partly as a survey of art in
Australia since 1934 and chiefly—the
state of daily-newspaper criticism being
what it is—as a reaffirmation of the very
fine painters of the past in whose robust
and sunlit art along with ballads of Pater-
son, the stories of Lawson, and the poetry
of Hugh McCrae, the Australian spirit
first became manifest.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Reviewed Briefly .
The Man Who Made Friends With
Himself: Christopher Morley (Faber).
The author of Thunder on the Left was
always trembling on the verge of hysteria,
and in this, his first novel for six years,
he has lost his magical balance ; maybe
deliberately, because this is the story of
a New York literary agent who takes a
holiday to rid himself of a neurosis,
spends it in argument with a split
personality disguised as his Better Self,
and dies in a night-club fire. The book
is in the form of a diary and letters to his
mistress, a woman-psychologist, to whom
he tells all, even of the seduction of his
typist; there is a well-drawn business
tycoon; and Zoe the psychologist,
sophisticated and elegantly earthy, is done
to the life. The art of Christopher
Morley, like that of Walter de la Mare, is
the art of reducing everything to
nothing ; but in this book, as in most of
his books, he shows you a very brilliant
Everything before, with a wave of the
hand and a learned incantation, he makes
it vanish.
* * * ♦
Twilight on the Floods: Marguerite
Steen (Collins). Beginning with the re-
turn to Bristol in 1831 of one of the
Flood family whose forefather had gone
out to make his fortune on the Gold
Coast and in the Indies in the middle of
the eighteenth century, this 700-page saga
resolves itself into the story of Johnny, in
whom the old adventurous blood rebels
against his family’s painfully-acquired
county elegance, who is taken up by his
uncle to carry on the family business, who
ventures upon the Gold Coast, and there
is bewitched by the queen mother of a
black tribe and who, returning again to
the Gold Coast during the Ashanti War
of 1900, is betrayed by the old witch’s
curse into shooting himself. The early
Gold Coast scenes are excellent; but
Johnny’s tragic love for Emily, arranged
so that he will just miss her at every
station, looks as though it were only put
in to make it harder; however, this is a
romantic novel, and that, no doubt, is
how romantic novels have to be.
* * * *
The Personal Art: An anthology of
English Letters, selected and edited by
Philip Wayne (Longmans). You might
go a long way and not find a better bed-
side book than this selection: William
Blake writing from Felpham—“Heaven
opens here on all sides her golden gates” ;
Edmund Veraey sending his Oxford
undergraduate son a trunk of clothes and
provisions in 1685—a letter which shows
how little sons and fathers have changed ;
Boswell explaining his loss of Miss Blair ;
C. L. Dodgson (Lewis Carroll) tirging
more room for mathematics at Oxford—
“A very large room for calculating
Greatest Common Measure....a very
small one might be attached for Least
Common Multiple”; Byron on the 16
slaps administered by his current mistress
to her sister-in-law who had invaded his
rooms “to have some conversation with
me” ; Landor to Lord Normanby—“You
by the favor of a minister are Marquis
of Normanby. I by the grace of God
am Walter Savage Landor”; Edward
Lear on the dryness of Nice, where
children cry dust and not tears, wet-
nurses cease to be on arrival, only Dry-
den is read, and weterinary surgeons are
unknown ; Harriet Cavendish (1804) on
gloomy Lord C., who was rubbed over
with syrup when drunk, and rolled in
a feather bed ; he woke up, walked to
a mirror, quietly said “A bird, by God,”
and went and sat down again. Together
with appearances of all the other well-
known entertainers: Pepys, Lamb,
Thackeray, Stevenson, Coleridge, Wal-
pole, Fanny Burney, etc.
* * * *
From the Bodley Head come six
children’s adventure stories, well-illus-
trated and produced: The Thirteenth
Adventure, by M. E. Atkinson, carries on
with the Lockett children at a seaside
holiday; there is a stolen teapot ; they
chase burglars in the dark, and get adrift
on a raft at midnight. Skeleton Island,
by Norman Dale, is another seaside
holiday with an island, a mysterious
scientist, suspected smugglers, a sailing-
boat, a diagram of its sails and a secret
underground smugglers’ tunnel. Treasure
for Three, by David Severn, has a lost
dog, a churlish farmer and a widow’s
treasure in a little old house that catches
fire. In Freddy the Explorer, by Walter
R. Brooks, Freddy the Pig forms Barn-
yard Tours, Inc., and from small begin-
nings with a party of 30 mice taken by
Mrs. Wiggins the Cow across the canal
and back for lunch, the tours extend all
over the world. The Lion’s Paw, by
Robb White, tells how young Ben’s uncle
tries to sell the yacht of Ben’s father,
missing in the Pacific War, and how Ben,
with two escaped orphans, sails the yacht
from the Atlantic across America to the
Pacific, using the St. Lucie Canal to Lake
Okeechobee, and then a further canal
to the mouth of the Caloosahatchee
River. The Sea Robbers, by Frank Crisp,
is an exciting story set in the Pacific of
a piratical motor-torpedo-boat which
sinks cargo-liners and machine-guns sur-
vivors, complete with divings for bullion
and affrays with the pirates.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 53
Across.
I—Shellfish fairy has a victory
against the returning deer. (10)
4—Volcanic material of Louisiana
and Virginia. (4)
8— Going under about a part of
China. (8)
9 Everything I own is made of
these acacias. (6)
11—Rainbow-like one goes on horse-
back with a little money. (10)
13— Put on a river. (3)
14— But it does not interfere with a
comedian’s joke. (3)
15— Cloth wandered when told off. (8)
17— Food of the East and a furnish-
ing for meals. (8)
18— Puff. (3)
21— Eggs. (3)
22 Talked, and perished about
cleanses. (10)
25 An insect is mostly related to
father. (6)
26 N.Z. river has a pale horse turn-
ing back before you and I
arrive. (8)
27 That woman’s love of the Shak-
spearian woman whose love was
for Claudio who was this in
battle. (4)
28— The banter of Percival Flage. (10)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
Down.
1 — Do I sit for a picture, Bradman
and Neptune? (8)
2 Managed the monarchy? (7)
3 The present time. (5)
5 Island overturned with some
capacity. (4)
6 Classify the donkey crumb. (6)
7 Y (10)
10 —Freaks of the mantle in the
steamer. (6)
12 —A tiger ain’t to curry favor. (10)
15— Widow. (6)
16 — Defeat the grain who went
against Benedick’s? (8)
19 — Victorian town has the ring and
the ring of a bell in Western
Australia. (7)
20 — State assault in an American
river. (6)
23 — Mountain range. (5)
24 Rang up with a snarl. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 52.


ROLLS
&
n
m
' V H ‘
-*&\
t \
o%F^b
The Worlds
Best Safety
The Rolls Razor with its
one hollow ground blade of
finest Sheffield Steel, which is
stropped and honed in its own
compact case. With proper care
and attention this single blade should
last a lifetime.
OTHER ROLLS SPECIALTIES...
~KM
ROLLS RAZOR SHAVING BRUSH
Specially made in England of
selected, pure, matched Badger
hair. Smooth on your face.
Whips up a penetrating lather in
next to no time. In a beautiful
presentation case ....... £3/-/-•
SOAP, STICK & STROP DRESSING
Three perfect shaving accessories
by Rolls Razor. These are ideal
gifts in attractive plastic
containers.
Shaving Soap 10/6
Shaving Stick 8/3
Strop Dressing 3/6
MAGNIFYING SHAVING MIRRORS
London made with chrome frames
and bases,. Available in two sizes.
Large size, 6" diameter, with
double sided normal and magni-
fying glass and ball-swivel joint
for easy adjustability, £2/5/-.
Small size, 4" diameter, £l/13/-.
m
FAMOUS ROLLS ONE BLADE SAFETY (Illustrated above)
One perfect hollow-ground blade and a built-in automatic strop
and hone to maintain this perfect edge. Truly a gift that will
last for years £4/-/-
ROLLS RAZOR “VICEROY” ELECTRIC DRY SHAVER
A triumph of British workmanship! This latest Rolls product
comes in a handsome leatherette travelling case complete with
all fittings. 240 volt A.C. £7/7/-
ROLLS “VICEROY” NON-ELECTRIC DRY SHAVER
With this ingenious hand-operated precision instrument you
may dry-shave anywhere at any time. No soap, water, brush,
blades or electricity required £6/10/-
0
mM
IF YOUR LOCAL DEALER CANNOT SUPPLY YOU, WRITE DIRECT TO US AND WE WILL ARRANGE
TO HAVE YOUR REQUIREMENTS FORWARDED TO ANY ADDRESS WITHIN THE COMMONWEALTH.
ROLLS RAZOR
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY • TELEPHONE BW 2038
Interstate Representatives: , .. „ -
QUEENSLAND: The Rolls Razor Co. of Aust. Pty. ltd., 77 Queen Street, Brisbane. VICTORIA and TASMANIA: Godfrey Phillip (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Drury Lane, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris, Scarfe & Sandover Ltd., Hay Street, Perth. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell Ltd., Pirie Street, Adelaide.
