

The Bulletin
••The Bulletin,” Vol. 71 —No. 3683
Wednesday, September 13, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
HATFIELD HOUSE, ONE OF THE STATELY HOMES OF ENGLAND
TWENTY miles north of London, in Hertfordshire, is magnificent Hatfield
House, rich in history and beauty and that dignity which only the
mellowing centuries can give. P
For more than three hundred years Hatfield has been the b orn ® 0 *
succeeding Earls and Marquesses of Salisbury, and during that time has been
visited by many of (he great figures of English political life. Its history began
in 1497, when CardinaflVlorton built the Old Palace, standing near .by, which
was appropriated by Henry VIII and used by him as a prison for his daughter,
Mary Tudor. After Mary Tudor ascended the throne she sent her sister
Elizabeth to the same prison, and it was while sitting under an oak tree in the
grounds of Hatfield that the news of her succession to the throne was brought
to her. This tree still exists, supported by a scaffolding of props. Tradition
asserts that Elizabeth left for London in such eager haste that she left behind
her a garden hat and a pair of silk stockings, the first pair to have been
imported into England. These relics are displayed in a cabinet in the Long
Gallery of Hatfield House.
In 1607 the building of Hatfield as it exists today was commenced by
Robert Cecil, first Earl of Salisbury and the son of Lord Burleigh, Queen
Elizabeth’s famous Lord Treasurer. The House has descended direct from
father to son through twelve generations to the present owner, who is the
eleventh Earl and fifth Marquess of Salisbury.
Hatfield is considered to be one of (he finest examples of domestic Tudor
architecture in England, and its magnificent interior includes many outstanding
features of interest. Out of the celebrated King James Drawing Room leads
the long Gallery, 180 feet in length, where many of Hatfield’s greatest treasures
arc exhibited; these include the cradle of Charles I, a dagger which belonged
to Oliver Cromwell and an illuminated pedigree of Queen Elizabeth which
traces her ancestry back to Adam. In the Armoury is displayed a collection
of armour taken from survivors of the Spanish Armada.
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL
ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


d
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name ...
My Address
S.B. S6O * AOB
The Red Page
CRABB ROBINSON.
First published in its present form in
1938 and now in its first cheap edition,
Crabb Robinson’s diary comes to us from
Dent under the title Henry Crabb
Robinson on Books and Their Writers, in
which Professor Edith J. Morley has
mercifully and judiciously compressed
into three handsome volumes (of which
the third is mainly index) the material
which originally ran to 35 volumes of
Diary, 30 volumes of Journals and 36
volumes of Letters and Reminiscences —
whatever else may be said of him, Crabb
Robinson may fairly claim to be the
most voluminous of English diarists.
And, since he is also one of the most
important, he has lain far too long,
except for Professor Morley’s previous
exhumation in The Life and Times of
Henry Crabb Robinson, buried in
his own voluminousness. Born at
Bury St. Edmunds, in 1775, the son of a
tanner, he was a war correspondent for
the “Times” from 1807 to 1808, then
practised at the Bar until he had made
sufficient money to settle down to his
real mission in life: which was, prin-
cipally, to be the friend, travel-
companion, champion and chronicler of
Wordsworth and, secondarily, to meet
every other author of the 19th century
and to read every worth-while book.
And he did indeed meet everyone and
read everything. He was with Lamb the
night Lamb hissed his own play. He
went to Coleridge’s fantastic lectures,
which were usually devoted to anything
but the subject he had promised to talk
about, and acted as mediator when
Wordsworth and Coleridge quarrelled.
He met Lady Byron, who told him that,
before their marriage, Byron—of whom
he could believe any slander —had “com-
mitted murder.” He heard Walter
Savage Landor, roaring as usual like a
stuffed lion, say that “Homer is trash.”
He hissed Hazlitt at a lecture because he
had criticised Wordsworth. He was a
disciple and friend of Godwin, gradually
falling away in both discipleship and
friendship as that extremely practical
Socialist borrowed increasingly large
sums of money from him. He inspected
the poet Blake, who told him that he had
been talking to the sun on Primrose Hill.
He met Goethe at Weimar, and heard
him praise the two men Goethe most
revered —Goethe and Byron. Young
Macaulay struck him as “promising,”
talking fluently even on subjects not
introduced by himself “with a minute
knowledge of petty particulars.”
He met one Hervey, now alas unknown
to fame, who wrote a poem entitled
Australia and who had, somewhat more
memorably, “the face of a frog.” He
met Clare, the ploughman poet, looking
“weak and ill.” He met the Rev. Richard
Barham of The Ingoldsby Legends, “a
jovial-looking man,” and, so careless are
we of immortals in their lifetime, called
him Mr. Barrow. He met Elizabeth
Barrett Browning and, to his surprise,
found her walking— not an invalid as
legend even then presented her. He dined
with Turner and found him “a man of
real genuine talent but rough, sar-
castic, cynical.” He met Rogers, Leigh
Hunt, Dickens, Tom Moore, Tennyson,
Dr. Arnold and young Matthew, Lady
Blessington, Hood —everybody who was
anybody and a host of others, not less
entertaining to read about, who seemed
to be somebody in the period and now,
poor fellows, don’t.
Above all, he met Wordsworth;
frequently, intimately, and, shepherding
him through the Alps or trudging through
the even stiffer alps of his poetry,
heroically. Every year he stayed with
the poet in the Lake country, climbing
the mountains, listening to gossip about
Hazlitt and Coleridge (which, unscrupu-
lously keeping all the best bits to himself,
he refuses to print), or, by the fireside,
hearing poor Dorothy Wordsworth
scream “like a partridge” or soothe
herself by reciting Wordsworth’s poetry
—a practice with which Wordsworth,
too, soothed himself and his guests on
all possible occasions. But he also, Crabb
Robinson reminds us, warmly praised
Burns.
Several times Crabb Robinson toured
the Continent with Wordsworth ; once —
but the details are missing—falling out
with him ; once—with some little embar-
rassment when the girl called Words-
worth “Father,” which he thought “in-
delicate”—meeting in France the poet’s
illegitimate daughter ; and once —in the
most delightful revelation of the poet’s
deepest nature —tracking him for a whole
day across the mountains when Words-
worth, who had started earlier, had gone
on and on in search of the lofty and
solitary splendor from which came his
poetry. One enjoys, too, more than
Crabb Robinson could have expected, the
picture of these two innocent travellers
on their “delightful day’s excursion to
Berchtesgaden.”
In presenting these personalities Crabb
Robinson is not always so vivid as he
should have been. He complains much
of the bad memory which prevented him
recalling the exact words of a conversa-
tion, and the reader will complain still
more of the reticence which so often
makes him decide that even the conver-
sation of Wordsworth is “not fit to be
recorded here,” Yet by and large, partly
because of his voluminousness —if you
keep on talking for 101 volumes you
must say something—and partly because
he was too genuinely a diarist at heart to
let a really good thing be altogether sup-
pressed, his celebrities do come pretty
well to life. And sometimes when, as
with Blake, the diarist really felt free to
set the whole man down, his pen-portraits
can be as brilliant as Boswell’s:
Shall I call him artist or genius—or
mystic—or madman? Probably he is all.
He is now old—pale, with a Socratic
countenance and an expression of great
sweetness, but bordering on weakness
except when his features are animated by
expression, and then he has an air of
inspiration about him I took occasion
to say: “You use the same word as
Socrates used. What resemblance do you
, suppose is there between your spirit and
the spirit of Socrates?” “The same as
between our countenances.” He paused
and added: “I was Socrates,” and then,v
as if correcting himself, “a sort of brother.
I must have had conversations with him,
so I had with Jesus Christ. I have an
obscure recollection of having been with
both of them” Some other detached
thoughts [of Blake’s] occur to me: “I do
not believe the world is round. I believe
it is quite f1at”..,.1 inquired about his
writings. “I have written more than
Voltaire or Rousseau —six or seven epic
poems as long as Homer and 20 tragedies
as long as ‘Macbeth’” As he spoke of
Milton’s appearing to him I asked whether
he resembled the prints of him. He
answered: “All.”
And, when he was not meeting people,
he read. How he did read! And how he
groaned when, led on by that foul tempta-
tion to “see what happens” even in the
worst of stories, he found that he had
wasted his time on rubbish. When the
diary opens he is reading, new from the
press, “John Gilpin” ; when it closes he
is on his deathbed reading Matthew
Arnold’s essays.
He picks Hazlitt as a coming man on
his first newspaper criticisms; he falls, to
his sorrow, into chapters three and four
of Pasley on The Military Policy and
Institutions of the British Empire, “a
fearful work”; he recovers with “a
number of Moore’s poems, which I found
very excellent, though on the verge of
indecorum.”
He reads at one sitting the 7th, Bth and
9th books of Southey’s Thalaba and finds
them “heavy and inferior to Kehamd"—
a verdict which the present reviewer is
very willing to accept without checking
it by reading either Thalaba or Kehama.
We cannot all have Crabb Robinson’s
fortitude.
He reads Guy Mannering, not yet
quite certain whether Walter Scott is the
author of the Waverley Novels, enjoys
Dominie Sampson and Meg Merrilies,
objects to the astrological plot and finds
the scenes of terror “hardly inferior to
Mrs. Radcliffe’s.” He enjoys Old
Mortality, “a capital story.” He reads
“the first volume of Lady Morgan’s last
novel” —whatever that may have been—
throws it away and laments, “I have
suffered more perhaps from the reading
of bad books than from all other mis-
employments of time put together.” But
Pride and Prejudice is “one of the most
excellent of the works of our female
novelists.”
He discovers Keats —“there is a force,
wildness and originality in the works of
this young poet which, if his perilous
journey tP Italy does not destroy him,
promises to place him at the head of the
next generation of poets.” Later, more
dubiously because he is growing old, he
is to discover Browning and Tennyson ;
and these two are also promising young
men, but Browning is “crazy” and
Tennyson — Tennyson !is not only
“obscure” but “morally offensive.”
He sends Shelley’s Prometheus Un-
bound back to Godwin unread because
he can’t understand it and because
Shelley is an atheist; hut afterwards he
decides that Shelley wasn’t really an
atheist and that the poem, if still
more-or-less incomprehensible, is very
beautiful. Byron shocks him, sometimes
artistically and always morally, but he
likes Childe Harold in spite of himself
and even, reluctantly, sees merit in Don
Juan —“ There is a gaiety which is agree-
able enough when it is playful and
ironical, and here it is less malignant than
on other occasions. The gross violations
of decorum and morality one is used to.”
Disliking Americans even more than
he dislikes violations of decorum he
nevertheless enjoys The Last of the
Mohicans—“the mixture of Indian life
and character is the only poetical element
in North American romance.”
Dickens emerges and Crabb Robinson,
though instantly saluting his genius, fears
that Oliver Twist will “lead to civil war’
and finds in Chapter IX of Martin
Chuzzlewit —which, if one remembers
rightly, is where Mr. Pecksniff gets so
beautifully drunk and falls on the bosom
of Mrs. Todgers—“such extreme mean-
ness and vulgarity that I am tempted to
throw the book down.” But, he adds,
“there is a charm in the perfect truth
which perhaps will keep me to the book.”
And then, very near the end of the diary,
there is Trollope, so mild in criticism, so
temperate in indecorum, so cosily middle-
class: perhaps the only author—for even
Wordsworth had expressed some very
contentious religious sentiments in The
Excursion —with whom Crabb Robinson
ever felt completely safe.
He was too shockable to be wholly
reliable as a critic of literature. The in-
carnation of English middle-class re-
spectability in its 19th-century position,
he feared everything that might disturb
his snug, tight little world: Americans
because they were not English ; Byron
and Shelley because they were above the
middle-class and not respectable ; Oliver
Twist because he was below the middle-
class and not respectable; and Mr.
Pecksniff because he was of the middle-
class but vulgar and a hypocrite. Yet
he wasn’t a had old Crabb all the same,
He had a fundamental good taste in
literature and, in the last analysis, a
fundamental honesty which nearly always
enabled him, however reluctantly, to sur-
mount his prejudices and to pay proper
homage to “the charm of perfect truth.”
On the whole, the greatest attraction of
his diary is that it is full of good talk
about good books.
Except for what is implied in his red-
cences and his prejudices, not much of
Crabb Robinson’s own personality shows
in his writing. Once he says, amusingly
—during his last illness—that he has re-
ce^ve( l
a letter from Field gravely counselling me
two more an
two hours consecutively....
so that we know he was a great talker.
Once or twice we catch him gossiping too
much, as when he told Lamb about some
of his friends seeing him drunk in the
street. Once, on the occasion when he fell
out with Wordsworth, a rebellion as
monumental in Crabb Robinson as the
French Revolution in Europe, we have a
glimpse of a final dignity-even by
Wordsworth he was not to be put upon
beyond human endurance. But mostly
we don’t catch him at all: except as a
cheerful, useful, negative kind of fellow,
bustling about the affairs of the Lake
poets and trying: to compose their
quarrels, visiting everybody who
mattered, reading every book that
mattered, aroused to strong emotion only
when anybody criticised Wordsworth ;
and, at all times, taking notes.
It is no use looking in his diary for
the heroic comedy of Samuel Pepys s rise
to fortune nor the scandalous and de-
lightful comedy of Sam’s amorous career
“nlil Mrs Pepys, catching him so terribly
with Deb., brought it to its dramatic
conclusron Nor mso humble a writer
wiU you find anything like the tragedy
of Haydon s. egottsm-on which, reading
it in the painters autobiography Crabb
Robinson comments in final cruelty and
accuracy, It grows in painful interest;
but I must not forget that I never saw a
picture by him which gave me pleasure,”
And hprnmß nf hie rriirpnfpn it is nnlv
And, because ot his reticences, it is only
in brief passages that one can compare
him with Boswell.
Yet, take the diary all round, as a
record of the outstanding 19th-century
men of letters, as a most instructive and
entertaining example of the way in which
good hooks and bad books are received
in their period, and as a prolonged and
basically-sound essay in criticism, and it
is undoubtedly one of the richest works
of its kind in English literature. And one
is glad to be able to say so ; for, what-
ever his failings, Crabb Robinson was a
desperately humble man, despairing of his
own talents as a writer and desperately
hungry for immortality: and that, by his
devotion and his voluminousness, he has
surely well earned. „
Poets of Rhodesia.
The only poem in A New Anthology of
Rhodesian Verse (Blackwell) likely to
find its way into world anthologies— and
it is not very likely to —is “Envoi” by the
Rev. Arthur Shearly Cripps; a Catholic
writer who seems to be the grand old
man of Rhodesian poetry. “Envoi” gives
quite a startling picture— to one not
accustomed to think in such terms — of
the Mashonaland negro as “the black
Christ”; and, as a polished piece of
religious and political verse, would make
its mark in any country where there is a
native problem to be solved: —
If aught of worth be in my psalms
It in the Black Christ’s Hands I lay,
In those Nail-groov’d, hoe-hardened Palms
He holds to me now ev’ry day....
Who near my red campfire will spread
His reed-mat, or on rain-bless’d days
Hoe deep His pattern-work of praise.
But the rest of the Rev. Cripps’s verse
—if the selections fairly represent it—
will probably mean more to Rhodesia
than to the rest of the world. It is pretty
writing, but thin, rather like Victor
Daley’s, with plenty of wine and roses
borrowed from Ernest Dowson, but not
much real feeling of the Rhodesian
earth: —
God, when wilt press within Thy cup
One wine-skin cloud for Earth to sup?
The world doesn’t want to know what
a Rhodesian poet thinks about wine and
roses, unless he has something really
forcible and original to say about them;
it wants to know what he thinks about
Rhodesia. There is a bit of native earth
in Cullen Gouldsbury’s “The Bellows of
Bungu the Blacksmith” ; but this poet,
who takes a different view of the negroes
from the Rev, Cripps’s and describes the
dreadful custom of skinning goats alive,
doesn’t write with any distinctive quality
in his facile, lyrical style; nor is there
the living beat of good blank verse in the
extracts from Kingsley Fairbridge’s long
narrative poem about negro tribal war-
fare.
The poet who best solves the problems
of writing about Rhodesia, writing with
original feeling and writing well, is N. H,
Brettell; who, if he hasn’t yet come
through with as finished a statement as
that of “Envoi,” looks with an observing
eye on donkeys and pigmies : —
And I remember, beneath many a granite
ledge,
pigmy paintings io rust-red and bronze-
archer girl and mincing antelope
and tiny javelin thrown;
ant-like harlequinade under the giant shadow
like the mad dance of mites under a micro-
scope-
ambush and love and writhe in fantastic
round,
beneath the silent symmetry of stone.
The anthology is edited by John
Snelling, who makes one a little uneasy
about his critical standards by calling it
“only a modest little bunch of veld
flowers picked from the Rhodesian
countryside at random.”
A TuSgey Book.
It is said that during a newspaper con-
ference in an Australian city someone
asked if there were an Australian equiva-
lent for the English word spiv. “You
know —a, man who lives on his wits and
keeps just within the law.” There was a
certain amount of silence ; then a delegate
leaned forward impressively: “In
Sydney,” he said, “we call them journal-
ists.”
Eric Partridge, who so often gives an
Australian equivalent, does not record
this one in his essay on “Spivs and
Phonys” in Here, There and Everywhere
(Hamish Hamilton). He traces “phony”
back to fainne, Irish for finger-ring; but
“spiv” he leaves tentatively at Scottish and
Yorkshire spiffed.
He has revised his 1933 essay on
“Soldiers’ Slang,” German, French and
English, which shows how similar
soldiers are; and also republishes his
treatises on “Bloody,” “Euphemism,” etc.
There is a more recent essay on
“Parlyaree,” the language of “Italian
organ-grinders, musicians and Punch-and-
Judy men who became popular in the
1840’s,” which probably gave us “trey”
or “tray” for threepence, and also from
Italian donna developed Australian
“donah.”
These things all seem so self-evident
when they are said, as it does to hear
James Joyce grouped with Edward Lear
and Carroll —yet the first time one has
come across this idea is in Mr. Partridges
essay on Lear and Carroll. This essay
conducts a very thorough inquiry into
Carroll’s poem “Jabberwocky.” It is re-
markable to discover that, when words
explained by Carroll and Humpty
Dumpty are put aside, there are only
seven left to be dealt-with vorpal,
manxome, uffish, tulgey, galumphing,
frabjous and chortled. .
Vorpal, says Mr. Partridge, is possibly
(Continued on inside back cover.)


“TRUThMin ADVERTISING"
Anthony Horderns’
It’s Attractive—~it 9 s Comfortable—it 9 s Safe—it 9 s a
“President Hilux” llighchair!
O
Here is the highchair that you have been looking for
. . . it's the “height of luxury” for that all-important
*
person in your house. The “President Hilux” is so
streamlined . . . it’s a definite asset to any room.
Available with padded seats in wonderful eye-catching
shades, including Dusty Pink, Baby Blue, Maize
and Pastel Green. Deeply upholstered seats and back.
Scientifically designed bucket seat com-
fortably supports baby’s back. Patent
self-locking hinge—simple, secure and safe.
Cream stoved enamel, chromium fittings and washable
• upholstery. This high chair can be reduced from
high to low in one movement. Price, £B/12/6.
m i
.
m
is
mm
■
M 1m
mmmm
iii
ili
I ;
,&•
liysisiiiilii
5i
■ ■
'
. ■ -x ~
: : ,
. Vv'v : -
am
mmm
m
m mm.
: '
P-Xi
wm
wmmm
S
: ■ ' " 1I H
mm
mm®
m
joomo > 1 'VfeC'W
If.v. :::•-
& . **
. -
''>'Has
m
msm*,
■
■w
■
■i
/
m
.
■
Safety Baby Pillow. Price 9 10/11
Comprises a steel frame over which a pillow-
cotton cover is tightly lf a baby rolls
on to his face, he can still breathe freely
through the fabric. It contains no filling.
, r
Silver Cross Pram , at £3B/10/-
Dual purpose model. 26in. aluminium body
with enclosed end and beautifully moulded
design. Folding seat gives full bed position, or
natural slitting position for older child.
*
■J
?'vy
■
11 ;
m
“Moho ” Chair Desh 9 price , dE 3/14/4
Light, portable and easily dismantled so that
it can be readily used not only*'in the
nursery, but in the garden as well. All-steel
construction. Can be reversed for meals.
Safety Cot, priced at dE I2/15/6
4ft. Sin. x 2ft. Sin. Cream lacquered with
slatted bottom. Gauze wire keeps out
insects and makes sure baby stays in cot.
Mattress and pillow to match, extra.
Upholstered Nursery Chair £4/4/11
Give Junior his own chair! Upholstered in
genuine tapestry and padded. Made on
big chair design. Wooden arms stained dark.
Padded at seat and back. Assorted colours.
5P
Stowaway Stroller , price 9 £5/8 /G
Light, compact and collapsible Stroller.
Chrome side arms, 7in. wheel, washable
Cream leatherette seat and back. Leather
strap for carrying. Blue, Green or Cream.
[ONY HORDERNS’ NURSERY FURNITURE DEPARTMENT—4th FLOOR. M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT); BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


PRODUCTS OF THE
RooteS
CROUP
HUMBER PULLMAN & IMPERIAL
HUMBER SUPER SNIPE
HUMBER HAWK
■
■
m
m
SUNBEAM TALBOT ”80” & "90”
HILLMAN MINX
1
COMMER "AVENGER” -
COMMER “R” SERIES
CONNER “S’ SERIES
Thousands of Australian owners are proving every day that Rootes Group vehicles
are unequalled for tough Australian conditions. Rootes manufacture a complete range
of passenger and commercial vehicles built by Australians for Australians each
designed to suit Australia’s long distances and swiftly varying climate.
COMMER 15-18 CWT. PICK-UP UTILITY
COMMER 8 CWT. UTILITY
KARRIER
Rootes’ Australian Assembly Plant
Australia’s Friendliest Factory
PRODUCTS OF THE
ROOTBS CROUP
The Rootes Group operates factories
covering over 5 million square feet
THE FIRST UNITED KINGDOM MOTOR MANUFACTURER TO ESTABLISH A FACTORY IN AUSTRALIA


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3683
Wednesday, September 13, 1950
progress
GReater production"
SOUND MONEY
r £ABO/?
senate
national
welfalr 6
THE HIGHWAYMAN.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
A PROD IN PRODUCTION.
For a long spell now the Australian
people have been warned about the evil
of inflation and the national effort re-
quired to combat it. Its worst inflictions,
at present apparent to every householder,
are the result of drift under the late
Chifley Government —the reluctance of
that Government to insist on action' or to
give any leadership by cutting its own ex-
penses, and its encouragement of the
electors rather to look for more and more
“free” services under the banner with
the strange device “Social Security.” Side
by side with this went Mr. Chifley’s
steady drive to implement his policy of
socialisation, founded on the idea of the
“class-war,” the doctrine that employers
and employees, even in the same industry,
are engaged primarily as mutual ad-
versaries.
The electors last December voted the
Menzies Government to office because
they had had enough of socialisation, they
detested the Communist sabotage of
production which the Chifley Govern-
ment could not or would not remove,
and they recognised that, whatever its
former appeal, “Labor” had fallen down
on the job of lifting man-hour output
and saving living standards from a
decline. To the enormous majority of
Australians the “class-war” is both stupid
and unreal; but even collectively (as at
the ballot-box) the electors themselves
seem quite unable to suppress it, and they
can only look to the political parties
—all of them—to sink so much of their
party jealousies as prevents them from
doing together in this emergency what
obviously no one party in power can do
by itself.
Since exhortations to action —either
from politicians to the public or vice
versa —must henceforth demand attention
if an economic collapse is to be avoided,
it is proper, also, to clarify the view from
the aspect of party politicians. If the
public demands the sinking of Parliamen-
tary warfare in order to organise a united
front against inflation, the party leaders
are entitled (supposing they ever think
of it) to demand that the public also shall
accept the idea of all-round abatement of
the struggle of this or that section to get
for itself thei best of what is going with-
out regard for what any other section may
suffer in that process.
Producers of our primary exports, with
notable exceptions, resist any appreciation
of the Australian currency, even
though wool, wheat and metal prices
have soared to high levels the
penalty of scarcity in the international
markets; and this is no different in
motive from the action of powerful in-
dustrial unions, taking advantage of the
scarcity of labor on the domestic market,
in pressing for ever-higher wages regard-
less of the effect thereby on prices of
commodities their wages must purchase.
The selfish chasing of profits by business
corporations, on which Mr. Chifley vents
his choicest sarcasm, is m no wise differ-
ent from the selfish pursuits above-
mentioned by rural producers and highly
organised trade-unions, but it is curbed
by price-control.
It is not necessary to deal in counsels
of perfection, or to waste time in trying
to reform human nature, in order to point
out that if, for instance, our presumably
enlightened civilisation of the 20th
century really believes that wars are pre-
ventable, then civilised communities must
get down to the job of proving that peace
hath its victories no less renowned than
war in this matter of loyalty to national
interests first. So long as the threat of
war from an outside enemy is the only in-
fluence which will unite a people other-
wise intelligent and energetic, then it may
safely be said that wars will never be dis-
carded as a condition of international
society, whether there are organisations
for the purpose, like the misnamed
“United Nations” or not.
There is sound sense in the appeal
issued by the Victorian Institute of Public
Affairs for a truly national approach to
the problem of checking the steady de-
basement of everybody’s money under
the ruling inflation. It quotes and takes
for granted the correctness of various
measures which the electors have heard
advocated by the Menzies Government—
and most of them by the Chifley Govern-
ment before it —the cutting-out of wasteful
strikes, the elimination of go-slow on the
job, the organised boosting of production,
payment of bonuses for higher output, im-
portation of badly-needed capital goods,
lifting of restrictive taxation burdens, re-
moval of everything that militates against
better relations in industry and a fair
day’s work for a fair day’s wage. These,
it declares, are all necessary but long-
term measures or aims.
But something further must be done
immediately and urgently to put the
public in the right spirit for the job.
Is it not possible to take a new approach
—an approach that would enlist the com-
bined goodwill and commonsense of all
sections of the community? This might
be achieved by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment inviting all major organised sections
to appoint representatives to a conference
on inflation for the purpose of thrashing
out immediate remedies. Representation
at such a conference, in addition to the
Commonwealth and State Governments,
would embrace manufacturers, commercial
and other business sections, primary-pro-
ducer bodies, trade-unions, banking and
financial institutions.
This conference would enable the Com-
monwealth Government to place proposals
for monetary stabilisation before the rep-
resentatives of the people directly con-
cerned and the sacrifices which each section
might legitimately be expected to make for
the ultimate good of all. It would also
provide a unique opportunity for educat-
ing the community in the basic economics
of the problem....
The great obstacle to stabilisation lies in
the reluctance, and up to the present tacit
refusal, of any section to contemplate
any measures which would involve some
immediate sacrifice on the part of its mem-
bers. If these sections persisted in this
attitude after the full facts of the situation
were placed before them....the responsi-
bility would fall where it rightly belongs.
It might do many union strike-
mongers out of a job, but it should make
a gilt-edged security of regular employ-
ment. It should spell the end of Com-
munist sabotage, but should lead to dis-
tinct advance in distributing the modern
amenities of life. It would play Old
Hsjrry with current conceptions of party
politics and possibly clear a lot of hum-
bugs out of political life, but the general
community would be the gainers, an ex-
perience to which they have long been
strangers. It might fall short in all these
things, as the translation of such lofty
ideas into practice generally does; but if
all concerned came together to speak out
frankly the views they express in private
some good might be done.
As things are, common effort is ham-
strung because the Chifley party has only
one notion of a remedy—socialisation.
That has been decisively rejected, but
“Labor” urges it again in the form of a
demand for Federal control of all prices
—doubly damned already, because it is
only a back-door route to socialisation,
offering a means by which private enter-
prise in industry may be garrotted, and
because it does not check rising prices
anyway, but only makes the public pay
twice over, once as direct purchaser and
again as taxpayer to subsidise a lag—only
a lag—in the price-rise. If price-control
could have checked inflation the Chifley
Government should have checked it
earlier —by 1948. In fact, Mr. Chifley’s
price-subsidies in 1947-48 were, at £35
million, about twice what he had esti-
mated, and by the first quarter of 1948-49,
when he abandoned controls in a hurry,
the rate was already soaring towards £5O
million. He ought to be asked to say
what he thinks they would have to be in
order to hold inflation, not to deflate
prices, today.
Similarly, although higher man-hour
production is the key to a solution, it is
quite vain for Mr. Menzies, as things are,
to rest with suggesting increased man-
hour effort if our economy is to be saved.
Mr, Chifley went on reiterating that for
three years. What is wanted is a policy,
supported by all, which will put the; prod
into production.
Defence and Good Faith.
The statements by Mr. Menzies at the
Federal Liberal conference and at the
Premiers’ Conference, and by Mr. Attlee
to the British trade-union congress, put
the insecure position of the British Com-
monwealth broadly to its citizens, if not
as bluntly as it might be put. And it is
not difficult to read between the lines
when Mr. Spender meditates in Europe
(according to newspaper reports) that he
sees “nothing inconsistent” in Great
Britain entering into a European union
for defence. An incident such as the
shooting-down of a Soviet Union aircraft
in the Korean war area might produce
actual war with Russia. The Soviet is
already implementing the preliminary
phases of war, using every available
agency of fifth-column and propaganda
to undermine Western civilisation, to
weaken its Governments and to pave
the way for local Communism to take
over by force or trickery and create con-
ditions for Russian conquest on the
model of Eastern Europe.
There it becomes more and more plain,
from purges in Poland, Czechoslovakia,
Rumania, Hungary and Bulgaria, that the
second phase of Moscow victory is in
being, with the local rulers on the way out
in favor of complete and direct Soviet
Union colonial military government.
This in Poland (where it was cynically
proposed to hold a “peace” conference in
a week or so) has already been realised
with a Russian marshal controlling the
country with the aid of a conscript army,
which will* be used to save Russian lives
in the event of Stalin and his fellow-
ruffians deciding to make a military
attack on Western Europe.
The speeches of Messrs. Mcnzies,
Churchill and Attlee are full of food for
disquieting thought in the light of what
is happening. It appears that the British
Socialist Government has had so little
fear of the Kremlin over the past few
years that it has permitted quantities of
machine-tools and other goods of value
in war to go to Russia from British
factories, and has allowed, and is still
allowing, in spite of Mr. Churchill’s pro-
test, Russian inspectors to wander through
British industries ostensibly supervising
the manufacture of whatever Russia has
ordered.
This has been going on at a time when
Mr. Attlee’s Government was framing an
emergency defence plan for which he
asked the trade-union congress at
Brighton last week to face “some re-
deployment of labor and change of jobs”
to meet the needs of urgent rearmament
plans, a matter in which he had the full
support of the president of the confer-
ence, Mr. Herbert Bullock, and of most
of the trade-unions.
Mr. Menzies’s statement made it clear
that defensively Australia has scarcely a
feather to fly with, and needs a pro-
gramme which will “affect Australian de-
velopment, economy and commodity
prices” unless workers and employers
were prepared to put their backs to the
wheel into the job and “produce
immeasurably more than in the past five
years.” But the essential core of it was in
the assurance that after years of deceit
by the “Labor” Government in power
about what was being done in defence,
the present Government intends to tackle
the matter seriously at last and, whatever
the cost, to provide a basis for immediate
defence action in case of hostilities.
The Prime Minister admitted that Aus-
tralia has “no real standing force,” and
that it must raise and prepare one ready
to engage an enemy on a moment's
notice, and not after six, nine or 12
months, which would be the lag between
emergency and action in present
circumstances.
The essence of what Mr. Mcnzies
had to say on that point resided in his
expressed belief that “If the next war
comes we shall have no notice,” and
that there “will be no room for a middle
course” in preparation:
The present Korean situation is not going
to be over in a few weeks What is the
next place to be? There is going to be a
next place. It may be very close to Aus-
tralia; it may be a comparatively long way
away. We this year are going to make
very heavy additions to our defence vote.
It is sad that Mr. Menzies will scarcely
be able to report to Parliament when it
meets on September 27 that he has the
same co-operation from “Labor” as Mr.
Attlee is obtaining from British trade-
unions. The attitude of the A.C.T.U.,
which is more or less in a position to
govern the policy of Federal “Labor,” is,
as usual, non-co-operative. At its meet-
ing on September 5 it refused the invita-
tion of the Federal Council of the Aus-
tralian Railways’ Union to call a trade-
union congress for “world peace,” but it
had no remarks to make on the astound-
ing position that a union whose senior
State branch provides the N. S. Wales
A.L.P. with its president should continue
to have a Communist president and
officials.
While the meeting virtuously decided
to forgo the pleasure of taking part in the
“World Peace” Congress arranged by
Moscow, which has been shifted to
London from Poland either because Aus-
tralia and other countries refuse to issue
passports to Communist delegates wish-
ing to go thither, or because visitors to
Poland at present might see too much, it
decided to maintain its stand of opposi-
tion to sections of the Communist-party
Dissolution Bill if they were carried out.
This is, of course, apart from a continu-
ing objection to compulsory service for
defence, something absolutely essential to
complete readiness to meet sudden attack.
The A.C.T.U. also passed a resolution
to ask Mr. Holt to admit to Australia a
t comrade B Gebrt
’ of the World Federa .
. G f Trade-unions, who wants to come
of!
Human Rights, due to meet in Melbourne
week B jn ' the interests o( dements
against whom we are about to arm with
great discomfort to ourselves and to the
national pocket
Govermnent , s job is obviously
going to be a hard one in the coming
session. Besieged by angry Premiers and
faced with the stubborn opposition of a
“Labor” party which is so strongly
under the influence of the Communist
prefers to flout pubUc
opinion rather than inconvenience the
Communist union-leaders, it is in for the
fight of its life on issues on which the
whf country should be united behind it.
“Labor” of coursei wiU.pretend to give
defence plans support, just as it pretended
to gi ye the principles of the Communist-
P art y Dissolution Bill support. But its
rea j policy will be governed by a desire
tQ de the Governme nt and get the
again intQ its own hands . Its
methods will be characterised by the
same sort of utter insincerity which is
now apparent in its dealings with anti-
G ommunist legislation. It will support the
pr i nc i p l e of defence, as it did during its
own regime, but it will oppose anything
which interferes with the planS c f the
Ironworkers the Watersiders, the A.R.U.
and tbe j r Communist leaders, and take
CO urse which it believes might win
selfish votes at an election.
Another Chance for Collide.
Queenslanders have been disappointed
so often by optimistic forecasts of big
deals in Blair Athol and Callide coal that
they can be excused if they prefer to wait
a few months before throwing their hats
in the air at the latest promise of pros-
perity for Callide field —an agreement be-
tween the Queensland and Victorian
Premiers whereby Victoria undertakes to
buy the whole output of the field over
and above the commitments of the
Queensland Government. The agree-
ment, which speaks of a figure “building
up to at least 300,000 tons a year for
three years, with an option of a further
two,” was announced by Messrs. Hanlon
and McDonald after the two had had a
talk in Canberra just before the Premiers’
conference opened.
By the time the coal reaches Melbourne
it will cost 104 shillings a ton, compared
with 81 shillings at present paid for New-
castle coal; but, according to Mr. Mc-
Donald, he has “taken a risk for the first
few thousand tons,” and believes the
price will,ultimately be much lower.
Victoria, assisted by a Federal Gov-
ernment subsidy, has been paying high
prices for Indian coal. A week or so
before the new agreement the Common-
wealth offered a similar subsidy on about
30,000 tons of Callide coal, two-thirds of
it for Victoria and the balance for South
Australia ; but, according to Mr. Hanlon,
he and Mr. McDonald “by-passed the
Federal Government.” He seemed in-
clined tp take considerable credit for the
by-passing, accused Treasurer Fadden or
“playing politics over Queensland de-
velopmental works,” and said that but
for him the agreement could have been
made six months ago.
To this Mr. Fadden replied that he had
paved the way for the deal between the
two States, and that the Federal Govern-
ment had had “all the trouble in the
world to make the Queensland Govern-
■ ment measure up to its share of respon-
sibility for the use of Callide resources.
He did not add that as the McDonald
Government did not take office until the
end of June its leader could hardly have
signed an agreement six months ago.
It was possibly this thought and the
knowledge that the Hollway Govern-
ment’s negotiations for Callide coal broke
down on the question of price that led
Mr. Decker, Queensland Liberal M.L.A.
for Sandgate, to suggest that McDonald s
“Labor”-supported Government u ac * t( J e '
fused the Federal offer of a subsidy tor
political purposes,” He prophesied that
before long McDonald would “be crying
again for Federal help.”
Irrespective of whether any or al
parties are playing politics over Callide, n
the deal really goes through there shou
be genuine cause for rejoicing Queens-
land—and not only in Queensland. Lvery
extra ton of coal that can be produced in
Australia is a contribution towards
greater production in the industrial nel
and to that extent a factor in stopping m
upward spiral of prices. Importing
is merely a temporary expedient; wnai
is needed is a permanent mcrease ui
output. If the new Queensland folds can
be brought into full production so mucn
the better for the whole of Australia.


PLAIN ENGLISH
No Shirking the Issues.
Without question the Menzies Govern-
ment is faced with a multitude of traps
and obstacles, planted for it by the
Chifley-led “Labor” party, which stands in
the way of the carrying-out of a Liberal-
Country-party programme that received
enthusiastic support from the electors last
December.
The “Labor”-dominated Senate has
held up the anti-Communist legislation
(which amounts to anti-enemy legisla-
tion), and even a double-dissolution will
not clear a way through “Labor” opposi-
tion in the Senate until a referendum is
held in order to correct the impasse
caused by the proportional-representation
method of Senate elections.
The year 1950 looks like being one
conspicuous for its political manoeuvring
rather than for its forthright dealing with
obvious and urgent problems. The
“Labor” Opposition in the Federal Par-
liament has made it so, “Labor” has
represented Obstruction rather than
Opposition. And there has been a
tendency for the Government to proceed
warily instead of boldly in a number of
important directions. .
Of course, so long as there is no anti-
Red bill the Communists will continue
to have a free run in the unions, where
they now cause as much industrial loss
as possible. Dealing with Communism
effectively would represent a big step
towards the solution of our production
depression, and without the enforcement
of the anti-Red legislation, on the way the
Menzies Ministry is handicapped from
the start in carrying out its election pro-
gramme, which embraced a revival of
industrial production and preservation of
the buying-power of our money.
But there should be no doubt in the
mind of any member of the Federal
Cabinet as to the ultimate aims and obli-
gations of the Government. It must do
its best, regardless of any sectional
interest, to increase production, reduce
costs and check inflation, which is
endangering all our accepted economic
and social standards as well as our in-
dustrial stability.
Mr. Fadden, for example, cannot be
allowed to let Country-party sectionalism
stand in the way of revaluation if up-
yaluation of our pound is deemed to be
in the national interest. Many land-
men really favor appreciation of our
pound, while many city manufacturers
don’t. If our economy needs a moderate
shock before it takes a turn in the right
direction —in the direction of more
diligent and conscientious work, greater
production, lower costs and greater value
for our money—then that shock has to
be administered regardless of sectional
interest or of whether the civil service has
to be pruned in order to provide more
productive bodies of manpower.
No doubt each Liberal- or Country-
party member as well as each Minister
has his own political and/or administra-
tive problem to consider. And there is
the difficult legislative position caused by
the “Labor” Senate. But there must be
no shirking the ultimate aims and issues.
Communism must be crushed. Produc-
tion must be increased. Inflation must
be stopped.
Malik Aforethought.
Russian veto of an American resolution
supported by nine votes out of 11 at
U.N.O. “Security” Council last week
would seem to confirm the impotence of
this body, as at present constituted, to
condemn any aggression anywhere so long
as Russia objects. The resolution
(1) Condemned the North Korean
authorities for continued defiance of the
“United” Nations.
(2) Called on all States to use their
influence to make North Korea end this
defiance.
(3) Asked all States to refrain from help-
ing the North Koreans and to avoid any
action which would extend the Korean
conflict.
A previous resolution moved by the
Russian, Malik, for which no other State
would vote, called for withdrawal of all
U.N. troops—described in the Russla*n
motion as “foreign troops”—from Korea.
The troops to which Russia objects are
there by invitation of U.N.O. for the pur-
pose of defending an otherwise defence-
less people from an aggressor.
If the American motion which drew the
Russian veto was not a test case for sub-
mission to the General Assembly next
week in support of a move to reconstitute
the “United” Nations, then it ought to be.
Moscow evidently expects something of
the sort, for it is sending Vyshinsky to
the Assembly meeting. The work of his
Assistant Foreign Minister at the
“Security” Council was to prevent any-
thing being done at all.
Petrol Tax and Roads.
From A. W. Fadden, Commonwealth
Treasurer: —
I would like to draw your attention to
the following item which appeared in
The Bulletin of August 16, 1950:
“Mr. Fadden, quoted by a Sydney daily
on the question of more petrol-tax money
for roads: —
‘ln considering demands for increased
allocations of petrol tax the Commonwealth
had to bear in mind that part of the tax
was levied in the first place for purely
revenue purposes.’
“Mr. Fadden should know that this
is wrong. The original tax was made 3d.
a gallon to provide a fund out of which
the building and maintenance of roads
would be financed. That the 3d. has
grown to 10jd. by the addition of unem-
ployment - relief and special war-time
taxes, never taken dff, though unemploy-
ment ceased 10 and the war five years
ago, is no consolation to the motorist
trying to drive on the ruined and
neglected roads.”
Whilst the report of my statement re-
garding increased allocations of petrol
tax for roads is quite accurate the
comment on it is inaccurate, since my
statement was correct, as the following
facts will show.
The original petrol tax was Id. per
gallon, imposed in 1914 for revenue pur-
poses, To finance the £2 million p.a.
grant to the States under the 1926 Federal
Aid Roads Agreement the Commonwealth
imposed a special duty of 2d, per
gallon on petrol, estimated to realise
£1,500,000, and additional duties on
chassis estimated to realise £500,000. The
total duty on petrol therefore became 3d.
per gallon, of which Id. was for ordinary
revenue purposes.
It is true that the rate of Customs and
primage duty has now reached approxi-
mately 10yd. per gallon, the increases
being for general revenue purposes, those
in 1929 and 1930 being associated with
the financial crises and the latter one
with war finances.
At the same time, though the direct
petrol-tax allocation under the Common-
wealth Aid Roads and Works Act was
only 3d. per gallon, the total grants under
this Act in 1949-50 were equivalent to
4|d. per gallon.
A reduction of Id. per gallon in petrol
tax was made after the war, but overall
Budget considerations have precluded
further reductions since then,
I may say that the whole question of
future road grants and allocation of
petrol tax was set down for discussion at
the Premiers’ Conference,
McGirr's Tough Audit.
State Premiers are very angry and in-
dignant with Mr. Menzies over their
taxation allotments. So they were with
Mr. Chifley last year, when the 40-hour
week first began to show its paces in
turning all Budget expenditures hay-
wire, especially those of N.S.W. Mr.
McGirr was the man for whom the 40-*
hour week couldn’t come fast enough, so
he expedited it with his own legislation
while the Arbitration Court was still
hearing arguments in the case.
Mr. McGirr’s Auditor-General in
latest report (1949) stressed the utter con-
fusion in N.S.W. Treasury accounts and
account-keeping methods. His protests
about them, he said, had been ignored,
though he had set out in detail the proper
reforms:
There is need for a clearer exposition
of the relationship between the State’s
general finances and those of the business
undertakings—that is, losses borne by con-
solidated revenue on behalf of the under-
takings. As I can foresee only continued
confusion and scope for misunderstanding
if the accounts are allowed to remain in
their present form, it is strongly urged
that further consideration be given to my
earlier proposals.
So the question is: Does McGirr really
know how far he is to the bad?
There is, however, one audit Mr. Mc-
Girr can’t dodge. Last year Mr. Chifley,
sitting in Mr, Menzies’s place, became
quite acid over Mr. McGirr’s arithmetic,
Mr. McGirr knew all about Federal
Budget figures, though his own were in-
comprehensible. He told Mr, Chifley
that the Commonwealth Government
had
Hoarded reserves built up from surpluses.
Got in £126 million extra revenue and
had only £25 million extra expenditure.
Saved £23 million on price-stabilisation
no longer paid and £24 million on defence.
And he pleaded that increased costs (40-
hour week and rising basic wage) were
sending him bankrupt.
Mr. Chifley then tartly retorted:
That he had to find another £7O million
to pay war gratuities. “We have tried to
establish a reserve fund to meet these pay-
ments so that in the year in which they are
made we shall not have to compete with
the States on the loan market.” [Mr.
Fadden to comment.]
That social-service payments had taken a
load off the States, especially N.S.W.
That McGirr’s argument about wage-
increases was “very specious.”
That increased basic wages paid by the
States were mostly to their own employees,
and that presumably, if that increased
McGirr’s rail and tram charges, he passed
on the cost to the public in increased fares,
as the Commonwealth did with higher costs
for post-office services.
That the number of people who under-
stood the tax-reimbursement formula is
limited, “but I have always thought it a
rather clever bit of work.”
Mr, Menzies appears to have said some-
thing of the same sort. Other things, too,
have increased Mr. McGirr’s headaches
at the N.S.W. Treasury. He was going
to eliminate industrial stoppages in 1947
(the State election before last), and what
happened? Statistics of working days
wasted through strikes, big and small:
Year, Commonwealth. N.S.W.
1947 .. .. 1,338,728 919,411
1948 .. .. 1,662,686 544,961
1949 .. .. 1,333,990 1,005,285
Nevertheless, the States’ situation is one
calling for overhaul, especially as infla-
tion grows worse, and nobody has said
so more plainly than the present Prime
Minister. In his policy speech Mr.
Menzies said he would convene a special
conference with the State Premiers to re-
consider the problem of the financial
relations between the Commonwealth and
the States. That conference, now admitted
by all concerned to be necessary, cannot
be held too soon. Meanwhile, in view
of urgency in finalising Federal Budget
preparations and uncertainty about mili-
tary commitments in Korea and else-
where, the States will obviously have to
cut their coats according to the cloth
allowed them until the full conference
promised by Mr. Menzies can be held.
As for Mr. McGirr, he will
undoubtedly have to explain to N.S.W.
electors now that they will have to pay,
with increased charges for all services,
the consequence he forgot to mention
when he sent up the 40-hour-week balloon
and started spending his income before
he received it.
Another Boost to Prices.
It looks as though there is a direct con-
nection between the re-election of the
McGirr Government to office in N.S.W.
and, immediately following, a rise of 20
to 25 per cent, in rail and other trans-
port fares and freights.
McGirr was returned in May, 1947.
A few weeks later, in August, up went
rail fares by as high as 20 per cent, and
freights by as high as 40 per cent. The
rail increases were not uniform, and
averaged 11 per cent, for fares, 33| per
cent, for parcels and 15 to 40 per cent,
for freight charges. Now the new Mc-
Girr Minister for Transport expects
another rise of up to 25 per cent, in fares
and 45 per cent, in freights.
In 1947 the increases were imposed to
meet a declared deficiency in 1946-47
accounts of £1,558,000, and they pro-
duced for the year a rise in earnings of
about £6,000,000. For 1948-49 N.S.W.
railway accounts have again gone heavily
to the bad to the extent of £1,915,600;
and it can hardly be a coincidence that
the latest suggested increases are slightly
higher than last time. What the loss by
the department would be at current rates
nobody, probably not even Mr. McGirr
himself, has any idea.
Minister “Digger” Sheahan is an ener-
getic fellow, and has shown some points
in administration to most of his col-
leagues. But he got badly off the beam
last week when he said that the increases
in the freights and fares charged by his
voracious department had become in-
evitable “because of the parsimonious
attitude of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment towards State finances.” Against
this the State’s Auditor-General reported,
of the 1947 increases, that they were
necessary because of “increases in the
basic wage and variations in awards, in-
troduction of the 40-hour week, attendant
heavier payroll tax and greater costs of
commodities and services” (all rising
from the like causes). Much of this Mr.
McGirr brought upon N.S.W. by his own
actions in 1947, and he did it again in
1950 when he liberalised railway staff
allowances. He appeals for election votes
on the so-called “improved” wages under
“Labor” —that is to say, sheer inflation,
which his party evidently likes —but takes
no responsibility for raising railway fares
as a result.
It is not even certain from the Trea-
sury methods of keeping its books —
against which the Auditor-General has
seriously protested as misleading
whether the year’s N.S.W. railway de-
ficiency to last June, for which Mr. Mc-
Girr wanted all Australia to pay, is
correctly stated in the accounts at
£1,916,000. And, commenting on “the
parlous cash position” of the Railway
Fund at June 30, 1949, the A.-G. observes
that the department failed in payments
to the Treasury to the extent of £2,100,000
for interest, exchange and sinking-fund
charges.
Minerals and a Bureau.
At the Premiers’ Conference last week
the Federal institutions attacked included
the Bureau of Mineral Resources.
Queensland Premier Hanlon described
its staff as “the long-haired boys who are
investigating in Northern Australia.”
“Long-haired,” in truth, applies to a
section only of the bureau’s personnel,
and sounds strange in the mouth of a
“Labor” Premier when it is recalled that
the bureau was brought into being by the
last Federal “Labor” Government.
What really rankles seems to be the
slowness with which the bureau works—
a failing not uncommon in the other
Federal services.
To quote the Queensland Premier:—•
We have been fiddling about with scien-
tific Johnnies too long, and they are getting
in the road of the people who want to do
the job An investigation should be held,
but not one that will lead to another file
in the dusty room of forgotten reports.
Mr. Casey, as might be anticipated,
rose in defence of the organisation so
recently bequeathed to him, but didn’t
made any direct rebuttal of the charges
levelled.
Whatever the political motive behind
the Hanlon attack, it would appear that
the bureau is in need of reorganisation,
with the object of making it more realistic
and speedy, and that much of the work
now undertaken by it would be better
and more expeditiously done by the
State Departments of Mines, with their
more intimate knowledge of local
geological and other conditions. They
must, of course, be granted adequate
funds and staff, which are, presumably,
available from the pool which now feeds
the bureau.
Relevant to the case is the recent dis-
covery of a sizeable deposit of uranium
ore by the South Australian Department
of Mines shortly after the bureau had
discontinued its search in that State.
Coal Output No Better.
Coal output in N.S.W. is still gravely
retarded by petty strikes. Apart from
interruptions caused by the flood-rains
during the past winter, the losses through
individual mine stoppages over the first
34 weeks of the miners’ year (48 weeks)
was, according to figures issued by the
Northern Colliery Proprietors’ Associa-
tion, 912,138 tons, an average of 26,827
tons a week, which would work out at a
loss of about 1,300,000 tons for the full
year.
The Joint Coal Board estimates total
N.S.W. coal production for 33 weeks of
the above 34 at 8,022,276 tons, including
934,118 tons from opencut workings,,
which leaves 7,088,158 tons from under-
ground collieries. At that rate the under-
ground output for the full year would be
no more than about 10,310,500 tons,
slightly lower than any year since 1945,
except last year, which saw the general
strike.
The Coal Board’s programme to meet
Australian demands for the year re-
quired at least 15 million tons.
Some comparative figures:
Strike
—Production (000 tons)— losses
Year. Underground. Opencut. (000 tons).
1945 .. 9,653 523 1,875
1946 .. 10,430 756 893
1947 .. 10,724 959 1,165
1948 .. 10,467 1,254 1,357
1949 .. 9,389 1,347 2,800
The underground production for the
current working year, indicated by the
average to date at 10,310,500 tons, shows
virtually no improvement on the best
preceding post-war years. Opencut out-
put was, of course, reduced by the winter
floods.
It is evidently impossible for the Prime
Minister' to set the Coal Board, as he
undertook to do, a target of production
for each mine until the influence behind
these destructive stoppages is removed.
That would seem to require operation of
the anti-Communist legislation held up
by “Labor” obstruction in the Senate.
Doomed, but Enjoying It.
Every now and then somebody or other
arises and accuses us of eating wrongly
and warns that if we don’t stop it we’ll fall
to bits or break out in blisters or some-
thing of the kind. And invariably some-
body else arises to support the threat and
makes reference to statistics and awful
examples quoted by the medical profes-
sion, whereupon a lot’of nervous people
stop eating this or drinking that and
blame their dyspepsia on carrots or
o Continued on next page.)


K
7
They satisfy In every way.
CRAVEN A" I
CAR RE R A S
LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION F 0 R QUALITY
fd
f
cakes or cream or whatever is the latest
target of the scientific chaps, and force
their unfortunate children to eat boiled
thistle-roots and drink nothing but hore-
hound tea.
The other week it was a congress of
dentists warning us that, if we continued
to eat sugar and sweet things the way we
do, our teeth would fall out and babies
would be born gummy and stay that way
for the rest of their lives. In the sugar
country there were hurried meetings, and
publicity chaps were ordered to warn the
nation that if it stopped eating sugar
half the sugar-farmers would head for the
Snowy River project and the North be
left wide-open to Asiatic invasion.
The sugar-men needn’t have worried.
People are very obdurate about these
things. Half-a-century ago we were
warned of a dreadful fate if we continued
to eat meat the way we did, but we kept
on eating the stuff and today the only
apparent damage is being done to our
pockets. For just as long they’ve been
at us about killing ourselves through eat-
ing white bread, boiled instead of raw
vegetables, and drinking pasteurised
milk. It proves what a virile and deter-
mined people we are that we’ve managed
to survive so long It’s something like the
nonagenarian who, upon* being asked his
diet, said he’d drunk beer, smoked
tobacco, stayed up late and eaten heartily
of whatever was going all his life. Re-
minded that nearly everyone else who did
that died before reaching 90, the old chap
snorted that “the trouble with them was
they didn’t keep it up long enough.”
Nobody denies that the human body
can develop depraved tastes, which ex-
plains why brewers, tobacco-manu-
facturers and bubble-gum makers are
worth millions, and it’s extremely likely
that we could get along without beer,
tobacco and gum ; but a general “reform”
of eating habits is out of the question.
No use telling us that cows and sheep eat
what they ate a million years ago and
don’t have to have their appetites titillated
by fancy foods. The simple answer is that
we aren’t cows and sheep.
There are two reasons why people
don’t adopt the advice of these food-
reformers. The first is that life is painful
enough without doing us out of our beer
or cakes; the second is that we like the
condemned foods so much that we’re
prepared to eat them and accept the con-
sequences. Which applies to other things
besides food.
POLITICAL POINTS
The McGirr Parliament reopened
yesterday with “Labor” depending for its
majority of one on two “unendorsed”
followers, Geraghty and Seiffert. For
backstop it has Speaker Lamb, who has
announced his intention of voting for the
party if it needs his help. This,
apparently, is in keeping with the pre-
cedent laid down in the Ballybunion
Assembly that a Speaker should always
be impartial, but, begorra, he’s got to be
impartial the right way.
With a record of four by-elections lost
during his last term of office and a general
election so narrowly won that it might
have been better to lose it, McGirr is
hardly in the mood to be spoiling for
a fight, but it seems as though his execu-
tive has a kind of a sort of a suspicion
that it will have to buy him one before
long; it has appointed a committee of
seven with the job of “stepping up party
organisation in case there is another
election.”
In the course of the acrimonious
discussions in Canberra last week
McGirr “challenged” Menzies to hold a
referendum on the abolition of State
Parliaments. The “challenge” meant no
more than the usual run of McGirr
mouthings. Abolition is on the platform
of the A.L.P., to which the N. S. Wales
Premier is pledged, but he doesn’t want it.
He knows it is not on the Liberal plat-
form and he knows Menzies doesn’t
want it. He knows also that there is no
provision in the Federal Constitution for
a referendum of that nature. If McGirr
really wants the people to have a chance
of voting on the subject there is nothing
to stop his urging that the six States
should hold simultaneous referendums.
But his party bosses wouldn’t let him do
that; “Labor” would either have to sup-
port abolition or repudiate its platform.
The A.C.T.U. has declined an invitation
to send representatives (expenses paid) to
the annual convention of the American
Federation of Labor at Houston (Texas)
—because, it protests, the A.W.U. has also
been invited. This, says M ; r. Monk,
might create a precedent which would
deprive the A.C.T.U. of being the sole
representative of Australian “Labor” at
international gatherings. A very good
thing if it did. Does Monk suppose that,
because he could put something over
Chifley, everybody else goes about in
blinkers? Apparently the A.F. of L.
doesn’t.
Just what does Calwell want? First
of all he complained that Americans
were being left to do all the dying in
Korea, and Australia and other nations
were “living on the charity of the
American taxpayer.” Then Menzies
raised a dollar loan and Calwell accused
him of “pledging our credit in New York
pawnshops,” and uttered a piece about
American capitalists which could have
been used without alteration as part of a
“Tribune” leading article. He hates Com-
munism and speaks of it as a world
menace, yet he is opposed to compulsory
military training, and when the A.C.T.U.
last week suggested that consideration be
given to a review of “Labor’s” policy on
this matter he accused them of “itching
to plunge their arthritic hands wrist-deep
in the blood of Australia’s youth.” It
seems that nobody can be right but
Arthur.
Standish Michael Keon, member of
Federal “Labor” caucus for Yarra, to
whom, as leader of the rebels against
Chifley, Calwell is paying the compli-
ment of trying to cut him out, thus de-
livered himself the other day at inaugura-
tion of the Murrumbeena branch of the
A.L.P.:
There is no justification for wrecking the
Labor party to save Red union bullies,
who mostly occupy their positions by fraud.
The rank-and-file will be glad to see them
get the boot.
In the business of giving them the boot
their White Hope is Bob Menzies.
Contribution on the same matter from
J. V. Stout, secretary of Melbourne
Trades Hall, one of those who walked
out of the Victorian A.L.P. executive
recently because he disagreed with
“Labor’s” support of the McDonald
Ministry, since when he has been striving
to get himself into step with somebody or
other:
The only real way to combat Com-
munism is to provide decent conditions in
society for the working class. Poor living
and working conditions are a breeding-
ground for Communism.
What! Is it like that in Australia after
eight years of “Labor” government?
In his policy speech four months ago
McGirr boasted that his Government was
supplying free milk to 160,000 school-
children and promised an extension of the
service. Last week, with other Premiers,
he rejected the Federal Government’s
offer to supply free milk and pay half
the cost of distribution, maintaining that
the Commonwealth should pay the lot.
There was no mention of that in his
policy speech; the milk was to be a
generous gift from the N. S. Wales
“Labor” Government.
McGirr’s policy speech also contained
quite a lot of talk about railways. Jim
undertook to expedite the Eastern
Suburbs railway, electrify main country
lines, provide fast, modern air-conditioned
trains and diesel expresses for country
travel and substantially increase rolling-
stock. These promises will perhaps be
made good in due course, but the big
railway news of the moment wasn’t fore-
cast in the policy speech—an “almost
certain” increase of 25 per cent, in fares
and 33| per cent, in freights. That fellow
Menzies is doubtless to blame.
The inability of the A.C.T.U. to come
down from the clouds and take realistic
decisions is shown by its attitude towards
the “Peace” congress and the so-called
Peoples’ Assembly of Human Rights. The
“Labor” party has declared both these
shows to be Communist-inspired, and the
A.C.T.U. executive has refused an in-
vitation to send delegates to die congress
which was to have been held in Warsaw,
but will now meet in London. Yet last
week the A.C.T.U. protested against the
withholding of passports from Com-
munists wishing to attend the congress,
and also decided to ask Federal Minister
Holt to permit the assistant-secretary of
the Red W.F.T.U. to visit Australia for
the Melbourne “Peoples’ Assembly.”
Following the similar line of facing-both-
ways the meeting rejected a request from
the Communist-dominated A.R-U. to call
a trade-union conference for world peace,
but decided to make a declaration sup-
porting world peace.
A declaration that the A.C.T.U or any
other body is in favor of world peace
means exactly nothing, and commits the
declarers to nothing. They might just as
well 'declare themselves in favor of fine
weather.
“Labor” Opposition-leader O’Halloran
is out with a bill to enlarge the S.A.
Assembly from 39 to 45, based on nine
districts each returning five members on
proportional - representation. He also
wants three Leg. Council districts of three
Assembly districts each, each returning
six Leg.-councillors, Apparently he is
working on the theory that impelled the
Chifleys to increase the Federal seats, i.e.,
that it would mean a bigger “Labor”
vote. It didn’t work out that way last
December, but O’Halloran is also backing
proportional-representation, which, as
mishandled by “Labor,” gave that party
an undeserved Senate majority.
First reaction of Callide coal-drivers
to the news of the Hanlon-McDonald
agreement to sell 300,000 tons a year to
Victoria was to ask for an extra 10-bob
a ton for carting the coal to Gladstone.
A fortnight ago it seemed as if their
livelihood was disappearing ; now it looks
like being assured they’re hopping in for
a bigger cut.
When it first heard of the bill to
provide for the half-baked socialisation
of the Melbourne gas industry, Sydney
“Standard” splashed the story across its
front-page with the comment that the
McGirr Government would closely
examine the plan to see whether similar
action was necessary in N. S. Wales. The
approval was a little premature; Mel-
bourne Trades Hall doesn’t like the
scheme, and is asking the Victorian
A.L.P. to call a special meeting to con-
sider the bill. One objection: private
enterprise will still have a substantial
interest in the proposed corporation,
which will use brown coal from State-
owned Morwell.
Doc. Evatt complains that the replace-
ment of the McKenna formulary by the
Earle Page list means that only one-fifth
of Australians under medical treatment
will be entitled to pharmaceutical benefits
instead of 100 per cent. He didn’t
elaborate on the word “entitled.” If his
estimate of one-fifth is correct far more
people are already benefiting under the
new scheme, in which the medical pro-
fession is co-operating, than under the
McKenna plan, which only a handful of
doctors accepted.
As evidence of how the trouble of
tackling inflation is accentuated by party
politics, this is a recent statement by
president Monk of the A.C.T.U. Federal
Treasurer Fadden had appealed for
greater production. To which Monk
violently reacted thus:
Mr. Fadden proved over a period of
years that he knows nothing about
secondary industry. [He was “over the
years” only a leading accountant in the
city of Brisbane.] Let him concentrate on
the only political issues he understands.
Country-party sectional interests. It does
not need his appeal to impress on union
leaders the necessity for greater production.
It would be interesting, after that, to hear
what Cain, who pulls the strings of
“Labor” support in Melbourne for a
Country-party Ministry, said to Monk on
the telephone.
What’s all this talk about falling pro-
duction? There’s no lack of it in N.S.W.
Government lot’ry tickets, which are
being printed so numerously and sold so
rapidly that instead of five lotteries a
week they’re now drawing six. Appar-
ently there’s no trouble about getting the
lottery staff to work overtime.
Passports are being refused to Com-
munists and fellow-travellers wishing to
visit Iron Curtain countries. Good
enough, but perhaps a better plan still
would be to give ’em a one-way ticket.
South Australian Director of Mines
S. B. Dickinson has hinted at the possi-
bility of a steelworks being erected at or
near Leigh Creek, the opencut coalfield
up in northern S.A. Premier Playford
has admitted that he asked the Mines
Department to look into manganese-iron
deposits near Copley to see what the
chances were. The difference between
Playford and some other Premiers is that
if he becomes convinced it can be done
it will be done.
Commonwealth Government has lifted
the Merino-ram export ban to the extent
of allowing a dozen Merriville selected
studs to go to America, where they’ll be
thp subject of “breeding experiments.” If
there’s any interest left in wool production
in America, one look at these Australian
rams might start an invasion of these
shores. Anyhow, the event has re-
awakened the campaign for lifting the
embargo on Merinos.
The rush on cotton-goods in Sydney
the other week —inspired by unfounded
rumors of clothes-rationing—had a
counterpart in South Africa, but for a
more genuine reason —the sudden jump
in wool-prices. Knitting-wool was rushed
at 31s. lOd. a pound and was expected to
hit 405., 17-guinea suits are expected to
reach 30. Knitting-wool was about 245.
a pound in Sydney last week, but nobody
expected it to stay there.


%
lo Of.v
. i/
4L
m
1 «'.X-
y\:%
df
A »0l> 7
* /
“THE DEMI-PARADISE.”
"To paraphrase Churchill, Clem: ‘Give US the tools and the know-how, and WE will finish you off!’”


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“P.0.M.C.”: Broadley’s sketch of the
bloke arriving at his train wearing
pyjamas (B. 23/8/’5O) recalls my late
uncle who, living in Sydney and having
colliery interests at Newcastle, was
obliged to travel frequently between the
two cities. Donning pyjamas at home at
his usual bedtime, he would phone a
cab, drive to the foot of King-street, walk
aboard the midnight boat for Newcastle
carrying a small suitcase, and promptly
turn in. When the steamer berthed at
Newcastle at dawn and the steward
roused him the
old boy would
rub half the
sleep out of his
eyes, grab his
grip and, still
clad in pyjamas
and slippers,
saunter up-town
to the George
Hotel, where he
would turn in
for some more
Shut-eye till the
civilised hour for breakfast. Then,
properly dressed and well fed, he would
set about the business of the day.
* * * ♦
“Craiser”: Complaints having been
made to Chief Secretary Dodgshun that
“Dark of the Moon,” the witch-play at
Melbourne Comedy, is obscene and
blasphemous, a police-inspector is to see
the show, policemen being regarded in
Melbourne as the supreme judges of
literary art and drama. On a previous
occasion, when similar charges were
made against an American comedy which
was rocking the foundations of The
King’s, Tom Blarney, then Chief Com-
missioner, was directed to investigate. He
sent a sergeant and a constable, and the
sergeant dictated to the John Hop the
juiciest quotations which observers
'claim he had great difficulty in writing
down, sq shaken was he with laughter.
The piece was declared to be innocent of
menace, and played for an extended
season. The night before the police visit
the Chief Commissioner took the pre-
caution of visiting the show himself,
either to check up on his subordinates or
to survey it before he banned it.
“The bathroom's free now. Dad.”
“8.L.J,” on a remembered moment:
Of the thousands of ships I encountered
during six years of war, one will remain in my
memory after all others have faded, yet I saw
her for less than twenty seconds, and I never
learned her name.
I was serving aboard an armed merchant
cruiser in the Indian Ocean during 1941, and
we were engaged in a hunt for the German
raider Kormoran, which had been sinking
Allied shipping and was later to sink and be
sunk by cruiser Sydney.
It was a dark, moonless night, with an
overcast sky and a moderate sea. I was
on the bridge when the crow’s-nest lookout
reported “Bearing green 45. A ship.” “Where
is she heading?” asked the officer of the
watch. “Across our bows, sir.” The captain
then ordered “Sound action-stations,” and the
harsh note of the alarm-rattles sounded
throughout the ship and men came swarming
out of doors and hatches, running to their
appointed stations.
After conning the approaching vessel, which
appeared as a black blob in the surrounding
darkness, the captain lowered his glasses and
ordered an alteration of course, which brought
us round on the port side of the approaching
vessel on a course parallel to and slightly astern
of her. Meanwhile the gunnery officer had
declared his target, and the muzzles of four
6in. guns swung out to starboard.
The rangetaker began calling his ranges down
to the plotting-room. The director-layer moved
his miniature turret around, keeping the target
fixed in the crosswires of his gunscope, each
movement automatically relayed to the indica-
tors in the gunshields, where the gunlayers and
trainers swung their guns to synchronise with
each variation.
As we came up abreast of the vessel the
captain barked “Searchlight,” and a
dazzling white beam of 24-million candle-
power stabbed through the darkness.
At the end of the beam was the super-
structure of a small cargo steamer, and
as the light travelled steadily aft to focus
on her stern, there, beneath a tattered
Red Ensign, we found ourselves looking
down the unwavering muzzle of a little
twelve-pounder gun.
She had read the menace in our
manoeuvre, and was ready. One could
almost feel the defiant challenge flung
across the water.
We cut our searchlight, our guns swung
inboard, and there was a warm glow within
me as we sheered away and sped on into the
night. *
# * * *
“Exdig”: Only one case of murder in
the First A.I.F. (B. 23/8/’so>? Well,
well! The worst case in my knowledge
was the poor Digger who, because he
made a fight for the ninepence, which was
all he had in his pocket (according to a
mate), was bashed to death by a gang or
thugs who used to operate on drunk and
solitary Diggers on the road between
Warminster and Sutton Veny; but there
were many other cases. The bad eggs
who got to England with a firm resolve
to do no soldiering but to get all the
advantages they could from the glory
the dinkums had given to the uniform
they miswore, formed nests of iniquity
in every camp. A few of them got into
the military police, and by their strong-
arm and stand-over methods made the
“Jacks” even more unpopular than
normally they would have been. There
was at least one fatal bashing in the
“clink” at Warwick Square. I was one
of those who tried to get a reopening of
the inquiry which found that the dead
soldier had suffered injuries in his
attempt to break out. The two “Jacks”
who were caught on the bridge at Wey-
mouth (England), thrown into the river
and drowned were reckoned by all hands
to have met a just retribution.
♦ * * *
“Billy S.”: There’s no doubt about the
remarkable powers of observation of the
fair sex —at least when confronted with
something which interests them. On my
homeward bus the other night, as we
swung into the main road it was obvious
that a wedding had just been celebrated
in the church on the opposite side of the
street. In a brief glimpse as the bus
sailed past I noticed a car bedecked with
ribbons and a crowd of people surround-
ing a fair figure in a white frock and
veil. But the two young things seated
behind me broke into an excited chatter
about how nice the bride looked, and
then they discussed at great length the
two bridesmaids color of frocks,
bouquets, headgear and all. They didn’t
mention the bridegroom, though I noticed
a self-conscious, forlorn cove standing
there, looking about as lonely as a grey-
hound-trainer, who seemed to qualify for
that non-glamorous yet necessary role.
“Which room, sir ?”
“Sack”: Conan Doyle wrote of an
experience with a very austere conductor
(B. 23 /8 / ’5O). Like his renowned
detective the author played a violin,
During a reheqrsal the conductor sud-
denly stopped the orchestra and declared
that one of the fiddlers was playing off
key. The rehearsal was resumed. This
time Doyle heard the discordant note
himself. It came from another player,
but the conductor stared directly at Sir
Arthur. The jmthor writhed, but kept
playing. At another passage the discord
crept in again,
and again the
conductor fixed
his eye on Doyle.
Three times the
silent accusation
was made, with
the accused un-
able to defend
himself; but when
the rehearsal was
over the author-
medico - musician
thought a little clearing-up was in order.
“I say,” he said, buttonholing the con-
ductor, “I know somebody was playing
off key, but it was not I.” The answer
was unexpected; “Of course it wasn’t.”
Doyle was puzzled. “Then why did you
look at me every time the discord came
in?” The conductor smiled ruefully. “I
was looking at you for sympathy,” he
declared.
♦ ♦ * *
“Jasby”: Honesty in the dock (B.
6/9/’50)? My entry comes from the
traffic court. The accused was a respect-
able-looking suburbanite, the charge ex-
ceeding the speed-limit in a built-up area,
his defence that he was driving his
daughter to the church for her wedding
and was running late. The magistrate
seemed slightly sympathetic, and after the
police evidence was concluded he said to
the accused, “The witness says you were
driving at forty miles an hour. Would
you say that was an exaggeration?” “Oh,
no,” replied the bloke in the dock. “I was
doing forty all right. More like forty-five.
I didn’t want to be late at the church.
Yes, forty-five. I’d say.” “Ten pounds,”
said the magistrate.
♦ * ♦ *
“Bo”: Bakers may have expended
neither much time nor dough (pardon
that) on trying to improve their bread
dietetically, but that they have failed to
put research into other phases of their
work is a contention I strongly refute.
When my baker charged fivepence a loaf
his bread had a minimum of air-holes.
As the price crept up his conscience un-
doubtedly smote him, and he went to
work on means to ensure that, by striking
air-pockets here and there, my task of
cutting it would be rendered easier. With
the price now 50 per cent, above that
early one he has, I must confess,
succeeded brilliantly. Actually, he is even
more generous: rather more than half
the bread is now holes. I had been
puzzled as to the consistency with which
he obtained a large one extending right
through the loaf at the top, thus ensuring
that when a slice was cut it would have
approximately seven crumbs holding it
one side and five the other, resulting in its
falling in halves when it was lifted —-
doubtless he considers that this is a great
advantage for those who like their toast
in two pieces. Always of an inquiring
turn of mind, I sought his elucidation of
this technical question, and wondered if
he could manage to insert a large cross-
hole so that when I lifted up a cut slice
it would then fall into four irregular
pieces. I received his reply yesterday,
given with typical old-world courtesy:
“If y’ don’t like the bloody bread git
y’r missus to lump it home irom me
shops!”
REX v. SPUD.
“Potatoes, easy to grow, and needing only a pint
of milk daily to make them a complete food, had
made men lazy and delayed progress in Britain
generally and Ireland particularly, Dr. Redeliffe
Salaman, formerly director of the Potato Virus Re-
search Station at Cambridge University, told the
British Association. Potatoes have been almost
unobtainable in Sydney recently.’*
The judge imposed a ten years’ sentence;
The prisoner blanched without repentance;
The cop remarked, “Get going, bud.”
The clerk announced, “Rex versus Spud.”
“Yer Honor,” said the prosecutor,
“This is an international suit; for
Those people tend to stick in the mud
Who for their food depend on Spud.
Spud works them little, risks few losses;
Spud has no secondary process;
Spud mocks industrial complexities,
Producing plenty without vexities;
Spud is the Growth we Can’t Ignore;
Spud is the Opium of the Poor;
Spud wears proud cities down to rubble;
Spud is the Root of the Irish Trouble;
In other nations, Spud is found,
A Member of the Underground;
Therefore, your Honor, deal with Spud—
Come down upon him with a thud!”
A lady put aside her knitting
And stood in court where she’d been sitting:
“Ypur Honor, let me say a wud
In favor of defenceless Spud.
I’ve travelled many miles a week
Playing with Spud at hide-and-seek,
And many more miles with my arms
Breaking beneath his heavy charms —
I’ve grown so strong, last Friday night
I beat my husband in fair fight,
And took his pay and kicked him out.
Which made him a politer lout —
And all these blessings have accrued
From the existence of poor Spud.
Your Honor, ever bright and fair,
Release poor Spuddie to my care!”
The old judge frowned, and shook his head,
Pondered a moment; then he said:
“Compliance with this tender plea
Were merciful, but must not be,
For, though remorseful tears may flood,
I still must call a Spud a Spud;
So, cutting a long story short,
This is the verdict of the court;
Spud shall be baked, Spud shall be roasted
And fried in dripping till he’s toasted;
Spud shall be boiled inside his jacket
Or boiled and mashed if he should lack it—
And, thus to terminate his life,
I nominate my charming wife,
And when that woman gets control,
May God have mercy on Spud’s soul!
Release the prisoner in my custody—
I’ll take the bustard home by bus to die.”
The constable said, “Oh, how gruesome!
This fellow Spud—we can’t produce him!
He’s made himself so very scarce
We sort of tried him unawares.
However, I suggest your Honor
Might advertise for a Spud-donor.
So if you come across that silly yam.
Address him, please, to
Judge,
» Cl-
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Ceg”: Scene: Wire Gully (Scott’s
Post) at Anzac in 1915. For our water-
supply we depended on an Indian mule
corps which brought water up from the
beach and decanted it into tanks. The
mule-drivers, after emptying their canvas
panniers into the tanks, often halted at
our post and, with bridle oyer arm.
watched us play-
ing cards. • Some-
times one would
lightly rest his
hand on the
shoulder of a
Digger as he sat at
the game and in-
tently watch the
fall of the cards.
One evening our
company - com-
mander sat in for
a few hands. Along came the usual little
mule-driver, and casually rested his hand
on the nearest shoulder. He immediately
jumped about 3ft. in the air. He had
felt the three pips of the captain’s rank
and the reaction was terrific. The poor
old pane wallah made profuse apology,
salaams and started to back away. He
had laid hands on an officer, and doubt-
less foresaw a court-martial and shooting
at dawn. When the captain called him
back and gave him a cigarette his relief
was profound. He disappeared down the
gully puffing his fag and talking volubly
in Hindustani to the doubtless under-
standing mule.
* * * *
“Binjang”: One of the best ways of
warming-up on cold nights is to conceal
something far down under the bed-
clothes and then search for it with your
toes. A blunt object should be chosen ;
one that is pointed or sharp such as a
thorn, a tack, an oyster-shell or a skewer
is found too easily, often by a part of
the body you had no idea was participat-
ing in the search. It is astonishing how
long an endeavor of this kind can last
sometimes, how tiring it can become and
what a number of other things—some of
them seeking to escape from the mattress,
but only half-succeeding, others emerg-
ing from it quite easily through holes—
are found by the feet instead of the moth-
ball, matchbox, marble, door - knob,
peach-stone or whatever else you hid be-
fore switching off the light.
♦ He * ♦
“R.W.”: I don’t know what is the
cause of the present high price of ham
in Australia, but in Palestine during the
war it certainly wasn’t the demand. I
once ordered some ham sandwiches at a
cafd in Tel-Aviv and was staggered to
find the price 2s. 6d. a sandwich. I
passed them back, but asked the shop-
keeper the cause of the high price. He
said it was because the Jews didn’t eat
ham. I have been trying to find logic in
his answer ever since.
“Villefair”: For some time I have
been watching a blossoming romance be-
tween an English lass and a young Aussie.
The couple speak the same language, but
they don’t speak the same slang! The
first misunderstanding occurred when the
girl described her boy-friend’s cobber as
a “proper half-soak.” Loyalty demanded
a protest: “Aw, lack’ll have a drink, but
it’s not right to say that about him.” A
“But I only said that some of your old clothes had become
fashionable again!"
heated argument was on its way before
the “half-soak” business was cleared up.
It simply meant: hard-case, character,
bird, nut, sad ’un, etc. The Aussie ex-
clamation “whacko” caused wrinkles in
the fair brow ; finally it was construed as
being synonymous with the English “bang
on.” In the midst of a friendly bantering
the lad was informed he was “round the
bend” ; that held him for quite a while.
When he realised he’d been called the
equivalent to a “dill” he promptly re-
taliated with “drongo,” which flattened
the lass for some considerable time. But
on one occasion both struck firm ground
together. The radio announced that Aus-
tralia had won the Davis Cup.
“Whacko!” exclaimed the English girl.
“Bang on! ” exulted the Aussie.
♦ * * *
“Findy”: “Villefair” (B. 6/9/’5O)
doubts whether even Anthony Eden
could look distinguished in dungarees.
“Distinguished” in that sense is a difficult
word to define, but if he means neat and
well-dressed I can’t agree with him. There
“ Potkins , carb.-soda for her ladyship."
are some men, and Eden is apparently
one of them, who simply can’t look any-
thing but well-dressed, no matter how un-
promising the clobber wished upon them.
Army giggle-suits were as shapeless and as
unlike Bond-street wear as any garments
ever devised for covering the human
frame, yet I can recall a few men —very
few. I’ll admit —who contrived to look
tidy and well-tumed-out even in them. In-
cidentally, the tidiest man I ever met in
the Army was cne of its worst soldiers.
He never did a job he could avoid, and
his Army career was one long bludge, in-
terrupted by frequent bouts of a.w.1.,
with consequent spells in the boob, yet
his gear was always neat and tidy and his
uniform always looked as if it had just
come back from the dry-cleaner’s. Tidi-
ness was a habit with him; he had ac-
quired) it through long residence in State
reformatories.
* * * *
“Beau Forte”: Young soldiers (B.
9/8/’50)? Victor Harris, of Sandringham
(Vic.), should be well in the running for
the title of Australia’s youngest Digger,
Now 49, he enlisted in the 15th
Battalion in 1915, two months before his
14th birthday. He went abroad soon after
joining up, soldiered on till the end of the
war and was a returned Digger at 18 —
the minimum age for enlistments.
“0.W.W.”: The under-twenties are
still trying to get away to war. About
30 were turned down for the Korea force
in Wellington (N.Z.) recently. One, a lad
of 16, who turned the scales at 14-stone
and looked every bit of 25 years, was re-
jected only when his mother called with
proof of his correct birthday.
* * * *
“Sackville St.”: Cricket umpires strike
some perplexing incidents in the outer
suburbs on occasions; I once saw an
ump. completely flummoxed. A batsman
for Auburn (N.S.W.) had been bowled-
out. After another wicket had fallen he
came in to bat again! For a moment the
umpire was stunned by the barefaced
audacity, then he walked across and
ordered the batsman off the field, “But
I haven’t been in before,” protested the
player. “That was my brother —he’s
much like me.” Somewhat dubiously, the
official conceded the possibility that he
had made a mistake and allowed the
game to continue. But when the same
fellow came a third time it was too much.
“D’ you think I’m blind?” demanded the
outraged “clothes-horse.” “Or just plain
stupid? I let you get away with it once,
now you’re trying it on again! ” It wasn’t
until the Locke triplets stood in' front of
him, two with soiled cricket-boots on
and the other with clean, that the umpire
realised he wasn’t dealing with a cheat
and liar. Perhaps it is fortunate that the
Bellingen quads are two pigeon-pairs and
unidentical —it might be the means of
saving some future cricket-umpire from
needlessly signing the pledge.
* * * *
“Old Crab”: Reference to “T. the R.”
and the word “tart” (B. 23/8/’5O)
brought to mind “piece.” As kids, when
we asked Mum for a “piece” we got a
decent slice of bread liberally decorated
with jam; my sister used to play a
“piece” on the piano ; the Dad always
invited a delinquent to speak his “piece.”
But “piece” meaning “peach,” “tart” or
“sheila” is about as out of date as a “bit
of fluff.” Current favorite seems to be
“sort,” with the Yankee “dame” running
a close second.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Wire-moustached, barrel-
chested, fire-eating r.s.ms. were already
on the way out in the 1914-18 fracas; in
the later show they were virtually extinct.
The average r.s.m. of the Second A.I.F.
was usually a chap just over the age for
commissioned rank, but otherwise the
officer-material in every respect. In the
p.b.i. his duties were confined to taking
regimental parades and making sure
ammunition was kept up to forward
platoons in combat. In the sergeants’
mess he was a total abstainer compared
with his prede-
cessor. As a
disciplinarian he
was more of a
father - confessor
than an ogre.
Even in the
old - timer the
appearance o f
chronic irasci-
bility was
largely a bluff.
I remember one of the clan who, during
rookie days, would charge up to within
6ft.-range of the luckless performer of
a clumsy manoeuvre and deliver a wither-
ing broadside of invective. Then, moving
out of earshot of the sergeant drill-
instructor in charge of the squad, he
would thrust his pink jowl against the
blanched cheek of the luckless one and
hiss “Take it easy, sonny. You’re trying
too hard.” Then, retiring again to the
6ft.-range, he would reopen the verbal
barrage, to the accompaniment of a con-
spiratorial wink.
* * ♦ #
“Percy Pawnticket”: So the old
kerosene-tin still has its usefulness (B,
23/8/’50)? My kid days, when people still
used kerosene-lamps and had no
difficulty in getting oil by the tinful,
might have been labelled the Kerosene-tin
Age. The old tins were turned into
buckets for all the usefulness which
buckets can be put to; they made, properly
painted and decorated, holders for
pot-plants; women boiled clothes
in them, and they became the walls
of home-made “refrigerators” set
deep into banks of cool earth.
When, during the depression of the
early ’nineties, the unemployed
made a village of shanties on Red
Hill in the Paddington area of
Sydney, most of the places were
built of flattened-out kerosene-tins.
In those days no house lacked its
kero.-tins set to some sort of use.
The last use I personally had for
the articles was in making home-
brew beer, but the grocer made a great
favor of supplying a tin.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
“Cauboy”: Sir Thomas Beecham’s out-
burst at, the Edinburgh international
festival, when he hissed over his shoulder
“Savages” at his audience after it had
given premature applause to singer Use
Hullweg in the middle of an item, recalls
the odd rebuke our Alfred Hill gave the
musical mob at a concert at the old Audi-
torium in Melbourne, He had just con-
ducted a first performance of his latest
opus, a long and complex composition
which was accorded the usual perfunctory
applause music-lovers give to a new work
when they haven’t yet been told by the
critics what to think about it. “Waiata
Poi,” which followed, produced a
passionate demand for an encore. The
composer glared at his admirers, shouted
“The people always love the rubbish,”
and raised his baton in a deathly silence.
“—MAKES US WONDROUS KIND.”
“Moslem sheikhs have called on the Israeli Govern-
ment to extend price-control to include the purchase
of Moslem wives.” v
Where the desert sands grow cold
And they live on figs and goats
And depend on camels for their smokes and
transport,
Where all sheikhs are handsome, bold,
And their griminess denotes
That washing’s not regarded as a man’s sport,
Their chief problem’s not the sun,
Nor the dust-storm which may shriek,
What best to drink to make spin out the
water;
It’s an economic one,
Very serious for each sheikh,
And it’s wrapped up in the marriageable
daughter.
You’d observe, could you be there,
As around their fires they chewed
Goat-cutlets which you’d not regard as edible,
That the younger men would stare—
Not intending to be rude —
But reflecting that they thought the tale
incredible
Which the bearded, wise old men
Triumphantly relate
Of the “good old days,” before they had
inflation,
When instead of camels ten
To procure a long-haired mate
They paid one goat, of modest valuation.
Now, the Muslim who has sired
Quite a quiverful of maids
Would, at current rates, regard himself in
clover,
Even more if they’re admired.
Needing none of Nature’s aids
To bowl the burnoused Casanovas over.
On the other hand, it may
Prove for him a two-edged sword,
This inflationary spiral; for the leaping
Price of brides is one that they
(’Grooms-elect) could not afford,
So his rirls the old naan has to keep on
keeping.
“East is East, and West is West,
And the twain shall never meet” —
Wasn’t that the sage remark that Rudyard
Ripling
Long ago got off his chest?
Well, it now is obsolete,
Though it is enshrined in verses very rippling.
Yea, we are on common ground
Where Inflation holds the stick,
For of beatings we are both so apprehensive;
Men of East and West have found,
Who command arithmetic,
That to take a wife is certainly expensive!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“B. A. Ker”: If there was one bird I
thought I knew —in all its moods —it was
the peewee. I’ve seen it fighting crows,
hawks, kookas and its in-laws. When
nesting it may even make a half-hearted
attempt to try the magpie act on
approaching humans. Mysterious rap-
pings on a window once puzzled me, until
the ghost was laid —a black-and-white
one, fighting its reflection in the glass.
Since, I’ve seen similar battles fought
against the windscreens of cars. Too
wily to attempt the willy-wagtail’s
dangerous game with a cat, the pied
torment is not averse to spending an
enjoyable five minutes in driving a young
pup to distraction. Last week' I’d have
written of its social habits: “Seems to
prefer small groups or colonies ; although
there are hundreds of the birds in this
locality I’ve never seen peewees in a
mob.” Now, I’m frankly bewildered. A
little before sundown last Wednesday I
saw just that. Like a flock of starlings
they were flying in close formation above
two tall bluegums, perhaps 200 in the
mob, and every bird shrilling its loudest.
There was no hawk above and nothing
below to indicate the reason for the con-
gregation or the obvious panic. Once
the whole flock almost landed in a dead
stringybark, then suddenly wheeled up
and away again. When I saw them last
they were winging over the hill like a mob
of galahs—in both literal and slangy
sense. Something must have impelled
them to unite for safety. But what? I
still don’t know peewees.
* * * *
“Kelms”: “On the lookout for a
survey-peg,” said “Ginger” (B. 23/8 /’50);
and I went back Lord knows how many
years to relive a youthful treasure-hunt.
“A stranger in these parts?”
The yarn circulated about a bloke who
found gold in the Darling Ranges—it’s
still being found there, so that part of
the yarn was all right—and left Kala-
munda for Perth with a small bag of
dust. He cut through the bush, ignoring
the made tracks, and somewhere on the
journey he became ill and buried the
gold under, or near, a big: tree. Shortly
after reaching Perth he died, after giving
vague directions to the spot. Not much
to go on, but it was enough for a couple
of kids with good bush ponies. Belmont
in those days was all bush, and we
covered every inch of it. Any indication
that the earth had been disturbed was
enough for us, and we shifted tons of
sand before the fever abated. We found
a lot of pegs, spaced at random through-
out the bush and mysteriously numbered.
Some we found near big trees, and these
were investigated thoroughly. Years
later, after I’d turned 14 and grown to
manhood, I discovered that those pegs
were survey-marks. But by that time
they were hard to find.
♦ ♦ * «
“Salmon Gums”; A Victorian shearer
who ran the combs over 1000 sheep in a
40-hour week thinks he’s put up a record.
He hasn’t by a long chalk. A Westralian,
Bob Sawallish, shore 1286 in the same
time. His tally for the whole week, in-
cluding Saturday morning, was 1393. He
averaged 217 for each full day of the run,
and put up over 200 for 28 days running.
That was in 1919. If he did it now he’d
be earning nearly 60 quid a week.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d battled Wagga
for a. bit of tucker and were chewing it
under the bridge when Mat said, “I got
a job this afternoon, cleanin’ windows.
Worth half a nicker. See you at Bel-
lairs’ pub about five.” He went off, and
I wandered along the river, fishing here
and there. He was on time, but pretty
wild. “Flamin’ wimmen!” he said. “I
start on one window an’ she keeps
bangin’ round in the room where I can
see her, smilin’ at me in a funny way
every time she catches me eye. Next
window she’s in that room, bobbin’
about, so I thinks Til cure you, me
beauty,’ an’ I gives her a black look.
It don’t
hunt her,
but she
don’t
grin like
a sick
foal no
more.
Next
wi ndow,
strike me
if she
ain’t
bobbin’
about
there.
too. So I downs me bucket and rags an’
goes inside an’ says ‘Look, missus, I’m
just a. knockabout bloke an’ it’s no good
givin’ me the come-on or bangin’ round,
see. Just let me’ but she lets out a
bit of a scream an’ goes red as a turkey-
cock an’ calls me a horrible, stuck-up
man, an’ when she gets her breath she
says the last bloke cleaned the windows
got away with a coat an’ a watch an’
some dough, an’ she ain’t takin’ no
chances with me. So I says. ‘Well, I
ain’t takin’ no chances with you, either,
Gimme five-bob an’ call it square.’ So
she gets the dough an’ gives it t’ me an
I pull out. It’ll only run t’ two beers
each, mate, an’ then we’ll buy some tucker
an’ make for Narrandera. Wimmen!”
* * * *
“Zake”: The word “lunacy,” of
course, attests the ancient belief that the
moon’s beams had power to unhinge the
mind of him who imprudently slept
where they could strike. But although
the strength of that belief has long since
faded, there are still those who regard
“Where's the stairs, mate —the ladder's slipped!”
their effect on food as potent. I know
several fishermen who would scorn to
partake of a finny feed were the caught
fish first exposed to the moon’s rays,
their belief being unshaken that such
flesh has a poisonous quality. And I
knew a cocky who made it an invariable
practice never to kill a pig around full-
moon. He claimed that it was impossible
to cure the flesh.
*' ¥ *
“Bot Anik”: Tell “Kelms” (B.
30/8/’5O) he’d better have another guess
about his melaleuca. These plants are
peculiar to Australia and the lands im-
mediately to the north of this continent.
True, melaleuca is a close cousin to our
tea-trees, but with seeds the size of
wattles —well, I ask you. Then what’s all
this about its being called the “lucerne-
tree,” a name usually attached to “taga-
sate” (Cytisus proliferus ), a species of
broom? Of South American origin, “K.”
says. It probably came from South
Africa and is a species of albizia, or
“Cape wattle.”
* * * *
“Chuck”: Of all the remedies, genuine
and so-called, for the curses of the cocky,
it is doubtful if anything has a wider
range than those offered, for the riddance
of bracken-fern. Plough them up, claims
one bloke; cut them, says another; roll
or otherwise badly bruise the tops so that
they “bleed” and die. There’s the cove
who stoutly maintains that roots of
kikuyu or paspaiutn planted through at
intervals will soon smother out the patch ;
another who plumps for a top-dressing of
super, to bring the clovers, and yet an-
other who scarifies in season and sows
clover-seed with the top-dressing. There’s
the owner who believes in cattle for
smashing the fronds, the goat who puts a
fire through as often as the patch will
burn, and the optimist who thinks that if
the rabbits are kept out long enough the
fern will die out itself. One toiler in-
formed me he had nearly cleaned up a
patch by keeping them so strictly cut that
the new fronds were never allowed to un-
curl and become green. He’s an old bloke,
and unfortunately I neglected to ask the
size of The patch or at what age he
started, but I pass on the hint for what
it’s worth. At least a noble ambition.
And me? Well, I’ve tried everything from
tearful prayer to blasphemous hard
yakka. And my conclusion? Depends.
What will succeed with one patch will fail
with another. Depends on the soil, the
ferns, the climate and the situation or
slope, plus an element of luck, for a wet
spell at the wrong time will undo months
of effort. But most of all it depends on
the bloke who owns ’em.
* * * *
“Old Bushman”; Empty /jcer-bottlcs
the most widespread outback (B.
23/8/’50)! What’s “Sack” trying to put
over us? When I was in western Queens-
land only pansies and millionaires drank
the golden beverage at Christmas, and,
outside the river-steamer freight country
in western N.S.W., one. never saw dead-
marines of the hop variety beyond the
railheads. Jamaica, Bundaberg or locally-
concocted firewater was the nectar that
stopped westerners’ skins from cracking.
It was imbibed, too, when it was 116 in
the waterbag or 136 degrees, as it often
was, in the iron-built pub-bars ; and in
“them parts” it was known universally as
a “Burketown mosquito-net” —you drank
a bottle, went to sleep and forgot about
the mossies. At the old Toorak pub on
the Julia Creek-Kynuna stock-route.
beer, on the rare occasions when they had
it, was 7s. 6d, a bottle (at Boulia it was
9s. 6d.), and that was before inflation.
♦ * * *
“Grav^snatcher”: Maybe I’m simple
where wild-life is concerned, which, again,
may be why I’m inclined to attribute to
“animals” virtues which I wouldn’t look
for in the human race. Still, I question
“BeTcha’s” assertion (B. 23/8/’5O) that
foxes don’t co-operate in the chase Or
share in the kill. I’m prepared to hear
classed as an old-wives’ tale the belief
that, in a raid on a henhouse, one fox
will bark in the distance to draw off the
defending canine force while the other
carries off a chock ; but I’ve believed it so
long that I’ll take a lot of convincing
that it isn’t so. I’ve heard a fox yapping
at night, and T/ve heard the answering
chorus from the dogs. Now, a fox going
about his lawful business isn’t likely to
advertise the fact; and when he does so,
repeatedly, there must be some intelligent
object in the act. Since the yapping will
draw most dogs away from their posts
this would seem to be that object; and
since the decoy couldn’t at the same time
raid the poultry, co-operation with-a con-
federate seems a logical assumption.
Moreover, any animals that hunt in pairs
or packs share the kill, so why shouldn’t
foxes?
* * * *
“E.”: I overtook Mike a little way out
of town, and reined the nag down to his
slower gait. “Keeping dry, Mike?” I
greeted. “Yair.” “Rabbits thick out your
way?” He appeared not to hear. “Get-
ting many rabbits?” I tried again. “Eh?
Y —yair.” Again he slumped into sullen
contemplation of the landscape, and we
travelled a quarter of a mile in silence.
“Your dog’s showing his age, Mike,” I
ventured. He glanced at his follower.
“Rover’s awright.” Followed another
s i lence.
I’d just
decided
to canter
on and
leave
him to
his secret
grouch
whan we
sighted a
black
kelpie on
the road,
and my
co m -
panion straightened into life. “Ain’t that
Bumper’s mong?” he asked keenly.
“That’s him. Bumper must be in town,
I said, “and his dog’s missed him and
started back alone.” Mike whistled,
dashed on ahead of the kelpie, then, get-
ting off his nag, he crept in coaxingly.
“Come on, y’ black —er —dog. Here,
boy,” he wheedled, and, dashing the last
few yards, he landed the dog a kick in
the slats. “There, I owed Bumper that,
Mike announced, with a triumphant
chuckle, as the yelping mong streaked
for home. “That’ll teach the bullyin
cow he can’t kick Rover f’r nothin !
FISH AND CHIPS.
The picture-palace shuts its doors;
The long suburban street is still;
The cop wakes up a drunk who snores;
A motor-horn sounds harsh and shrill.
Somewhere a “goods” goes grunting by;
The last lone tram sets off for town;
Like gems the stars bedeck the sky;
All quiet fdlk are bedded down.
The dance-hall empties out the young;
Gay evening-frocks swell to the ground;
Light is the laughter, gay the tongue;
The girls like kittens frolic round.
Warm shines the fish-shop’s tempting light;
The night is young for youthful blood;
A fragrant smell comes to the night;
In boiling fat goes creamy spud.
In cold still street the banquet’s set;
Fair hand into warm bundle dips,
And Romeo and Juliet
Swing by, and eat their fish and chips.
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


Don’t say Gin
• • • say
9
0
o
O
“Solitude”: “Who’s the cove?”
Seventyfiver watched the approaching
stranger. “Looks like that! blasted in-
surance-agent nobody can get rid of,” I
remarked. “Hangs on till they take out
a policy in self-defence. Y’d better ask
for an insurance against insurance-
agents.” I disappeared into the hut.
“ ’Day,” Seventyfiver greeted the bloke.
“Stranger, ain’t y’?” “Yes, I’m travel-
ling in life-insurance. I” “Life-
insurance,” exclaimed Seventyfiver eagerly.
“Gripes, that’s lucky. Wouldn’t mind a
30-year policy meself al a cheap rate, an’
Sol’s been looking’ for somebody fr
munce, only none o’ them companies ’ll
pull ’im on. Dunno why. Wants a good
big insurance, too. Y’ see, his ol’ man
pegged out about Sol’s age, an’ his four
older brothers did too, an’ now Sol’s got
the same sort o’ cough they all ’ad.
Coughs nearly all the time now,” Seventy-
fiver paused, then raised his voice mean-
ingly. “I said, COUGHS ALL THE
TIME NOW, SOL DOES.” I cursed the
old goat, crept to the back of the hut and
put over a pretty good act. From there I
couldn’t hear what went on, but after a
suitable interval decided to risk my lungs
in another outburst. “Sounds like a
blasted bullfrog with lungworm,” came a
scornful voice from outside. “Anyway,
y’ can shut up now. The bloke wouldn’t
wait.”
* * ♦ ♦
“S.H.H.”: There were no springers in
the mob at the back paddock, so I
wandered across to the shire quarry,
where I could hear a compressor going.
A few employees were wandering around
doing nothing in particular, but some
Army engineers were jellying up a few
holes they’d drilled on a face. Young
enough to appreciate fireworks, I decided
to stick around, so drove the car to what
I reckoned was a safe spot. One of the
shire coves came over for a yarn, and
suggested I shift a few yards further.
“Those blokes have got 10ft. holes, and
they’ve filled ’em to within a couple of
inches of the top,” he said. Did as I was
bidden, and turned in time to see the
Army climb into its jeep and drive
"I'd modernise me premises if it wasn't for the building restrictions
casually into the bush and —up she went.
No warning; nothing. Saw two shire
chaps dive under a compressor, two more
bolt for the
bush and hug
b 1 a c kbutts.
Another
dived into a
tin shed,
came out
again and
flung himself
under a
’dozer, whilst
one poor
devil, caught
flat-footed in
the open,
hauled his
coat over his head, put his hands on top
of that and shut his eyes. The sky was
full of rock; then it started to come
down. A chunk of shale as big as a
prize Queensland blue fell within a few
feet of the car, and the bush sounded as
if it were being hit by a giant hailstorm.
Whitefaced and shaking, the bloke under
the ’dozer greeted me with: “Now I
know why they issue those stupid
blankards with tin-hats,” whilst from
across the quarry came a cheerful Army
voice “Wouldn’t it? Three flamin’ mis-
fires in six! ”
* * * ♦
“Sackfair”: It was during a “Naughty
’Nineties” programme on the radio. The
swingy (in the old sense) old-time
orchestra had played several hit-tunes
from the Boer War when a voice
shouted: “What about the Navy?”
Instantly the band broke into “Sons of
the Sea.” Just as the last note was fad-
ing another voice hollered: “What about
the Army?” The tune that followed was,
of course, “Soldiers of the Queen.” There
the recording ended. That didn’t suit my
visitor, a boy of 11. “What about the
Air Force?” he demanded indignantly.
“Didn’t they do anythin’ in the Boer
War?” Strange that it took a schoolboy
to remind me that in my Dad’s youth
aerial combat and bombardment were
unknown. How amazingly we have pro-
gressed in those 50 years—or have we?
« * * *
“Herbert Dawson”: Brumbies (B.
9/8/’5O) in their shallow excavations on
sandy creek-beds have doubtless provided
water for other wild denizens of the
bush. Incidentally, where the water
doesn’t cornel close to the surface the
brumby mob kneel down to drink—
possibly following a wild instinct to
avoid the stirring-up which would follow
wading into the water, and in marked
difference to the action of domesticated
horses in rolling in dams and waterholes.
Descendants of brumbies have a discon-
certing habit of suddenly dropping on to
their knees when ridden to the edge of a
pothole in a gully for a drink. A rider
unaware of this inherited tendency can be
provided with a plunge-bath. “Horseless
H.,” however, has doubtless seen the holes
dug in sand by dingoes, who before the
advent of the horse probably saved the
lives of marsupials and birds, if only to
kill and eat them later.
* * * *
“Wonk”: The new dog was young and
untried, but Bill had guaranteed him to
chase anything, and we were eager to find
out just what that meant. We hadn’t
long to wait, for half-way over the pad-
dock the hound suddenly took off, and
stretched himself out in great style.
“What the blazes is he after?” gasped
Hal, as we both stared. “There’s nothing
there to chase.” The dog raced in a
circle, dashed to the foot of the cliff and
jumped up at the rock-face several times.
“Poor blighter’s gone mad,” Hal burst
out again. “Gripes, look at that, will y’?”
Charging off a few yards, the animal sud-
denly grabbed a patch of clover, patted
it down with his paws, and tried to bite
a chunk out of the ground. “Dingbats,”
nodded Hal. “Been livin’ out with ol’
Bill too long, I bet. What’re y’ going to
do with him?” While I hesitated the
mong took off once more, circled our
nags in a great burst of speed, paused,
set for a steadying moment and sprang.
As he landed I spotted the shadow of
the wedgetail that was circling lazily
overhead.
* * * *
“Emjai”: The boss’s cocker, Doran,
was letter-perfect on his fetch-and-carry
drill and sundry tricks, but he fell from
grace when, in the boss’s absence, he
attended church. He lay quietly between
the pews until the parson’s voice rose in
exhortation from the pulpit. Interpret-
ing this as the word of command, he
emerged looking
for the where-
withal to do his
stuff. Along the
aisle in the little
church the end-
sitters had de-
posited their hats
on the floor out-
side the pews.
Seizing one, he
delivered it at
the foot of the
pulpit, waiting
for approbation.
The voice went
on, and he re-
turned for an-
other hat, and an-
other and another. The pile grew, the
congregation’s titters swelled to open
laughter, the parson’s wife, under his
austere eye, grew redder and redder with
repression as Doran still retrieved. Then,
with delivery completed, the dog barked,
the wife exploded, and the scowl cracked
as the parson, with a reluctant grin, said
“And now, if the vergers will kindly
escort Duggan’s dog outside and restore
his generous offerings to their rightful
owners, they may take round the plates
and cash in on the show.”
“Old-timer”: Tell “Fairf” (B. 6/9/’5O)
that the title of that crib ballad was
“Sundee Night,” which ought to please
him. And “we” once wanted three to
win, “they” wanted 24; “they” had first
take, “we” failed to make the three and
“they” cantered in with a first take of 28.
» * ♦ *
“Blime”: “Met some decent people the
other evenin’,” related Dill, as we started
round the trail. “They’d stopped their
car in that belt o’ scrub on the flat, an’
they’d lit a little fire an’ was cookin’ a
couple o’ snags on the end o’ sticks. It
was the night me nag got a stone in ’is
hoof; remember? An’ I got off at the
bend, and led ’im. When I run into ’em
they stared at me for a bit, then the bloke
says: ‘You look all in, stranger. Better
rest-up.’ So I slid on a log near their
fire, and the bloke goes on: ‘Your horse
lame, too, and it’s eighty miles of lonely
bush to the next town. Are you hungry?’
Was I hungry! An’ us havin’ our tucker
early that day, like we did. Well, they
only had them two snags, but they made
me have both of ’em, an’ most o’ the
biscuits that was in a little box, although
they’d had no dinner or nothin’. Y’ see,
their car’d broke down, an’ they’d been
mendin’ it all day, an’ they’d got it so
it’d go a coupler miles before they’d
’ave t’ wait f’r it t’ cool down again.
Reckoned they’d hit the town some time
next day, if they was lucky. When they
was pushin’ off the missus spots the
shack. ‘Oh, an old hut,’ she squeals.
‘P’raps there’d be food.’ ‘Sure,’ I tell her.
‘Stacks o’ tucker.’ But the bloke looks
it over, sez it’s very old, an’ tells me
there’d be nothin’ there. Tells me, the
silly cow. As though a man don’t know
what’s in ’is own hut!”
♦ * ♦ ♦
“C.A.L.”: An air of hushed expec-
tancy pervaded the brace, for word had
got around that the ne\v migrant trainee
had not handed in his plod or lamp at
the close of the shift. Today was his
introduction to underground, and he had
been put to work on the 3300 ft.-level. As
the platman got into the cage and de-
scended conjecture was rife as to how the
missing man would be brought to the
surface. Five minutes passed, 10, and
the men waiting on top were becoming
restive. Fifteen minutes; and the fore-
man and shift-bosses, now alarmed,
joined those waiting. At last came the
signal: one, two, three, four. No 12 rings
this time, so the man was safe! The gin-
wheels on the poppet raced, and soon the
cage glided to a stop and discharged the
platman and a sheepish passenger.
“Garn, you hungry blankard!” was his
greeting from the assembly, anger fol-
lowing swiftly on their relief. “Can’t
you make enough money in seven and
a half hours?” “No,” answered the em-
barrassed trainee. “I was only waiting
down below for the whistle to blow, but
did not hear it!”
KUPE RETURNING, 950 A.D.
[From “Tamaki-Makau-Rau,” a poem on the
history of Auckland.]
“‘May the gods be with us on our journey home!
Nor clouds deface the sun or wide night-sky,
But constant winds hasten these voyagers
Over the lengthening waves.
Already, prow to the rising sun, my lips
Frame the chants of Kupe to be sung
In the far islands of Hawaiki,
Already as the Long White Cloud recedes
Legend and fact twist to a single rope.
Already my wife exaggerates our deeds,
My daughters’ impressions take a fanciful shape,
And my comrade Ngahue’s gestures grow more
wild.
But I, Kupe, wanderer in many isles,
One who knows the ocean like his own hand’s
palm,
So lined with his keel’s wake.
Have learned to tell strange news in simple
words.
“How often from our island promontories
We had watched the long-tailed cuckoo flying
south,
And pondered on his distant summer home.
But it takes a weathered sailor to decide on
exploration,
So my old outrigger was re-straked and sennit-
sewn,
New sails plaited (and the gods placated)
And I set out with sixty men at the paddles,
My wife and daughters, and my two best dogs,
And Ngahue sailing beside us
In his own outrigger craft.
“O kinsmen, far beyond that line where the
sky hangs low.
We found ourselves under alien stars and quite
outside
The verges of my former voyages.
The skyline, bare when the sun rose as when
it fell,
Swallowed up our days in one wide yawn.
Our food dwindled, water-gourds ran dry,
But landsick, salt-stung, stiff, we kept our course,
Hoping much from the vast emptiness.
And the gods were with us! After weary days
My wife, good sailor, cried, ‘A cloud! A
cloud!’
(The dogs sprang up, sniffing an offshore breeze),
And there, green under mountain mist, lay
my discovery.
“So many trees! So many tribes of birds!
When we paddled into bays the gulls and
gannets
Circled in screaming flocks, for never before
Had their rocky roosts been disturbed by man.
Out of the bushes there came
The small inquisitive chattering birds, so tame
They brushed our faces with their wing-tips.
We saw a giant hen leading her huge chicken
Into the plumy grass, and singing birds and
tailless birds,
And a mimic that mocked our voices—but
never man.
Though sometimes, looking inland
To the mountainous heart of mist and murmur-
ing bush,
We felt that unseen watchers shadowed all our
movements.
“What shall I tell my kinsmen? How, though
we return
Bringing the smooth green stone, curious
feathers,
And the potted flesh of a gigantic bird
fAII as trophies supporting the distant thing)
This should be added to the chant I sing
Through all the islands of Hawaiki,
In Raratonga, in Great Tahiti, in Rangiatea
my home:
That of all the fishes Maui hooked from the sea
We have seen the biggest.
Of all the isles where Tane’s children grow
There they grow tallest in the mild warm rains.
Yet there's one thing no discoverer can share,
The first wild moment when the empty ocean
Is filled with a long low cloud
And a knowledge, as of the gods, distends his
vision
Into a swelling dream.”
N.Z.
GLORIA RAWLINSON.


Hi
%
Jt :J
• -3 I
BOARD OF DIRECTORS*
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws,
C. 8.8.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W, Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WAISES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8.. Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman);
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshcad, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Continuity ...
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd. Executor of your Will you
are assured that the interests of your legatees will be safeguarded until all trusts are completed.
In addition, you obtain the benefit of an impartial Executor with over 71 years’ specialised
experience in the administration of Estates.
No individual can offer such permanence, experience or security.
Charges are fixed and moderate.
Write or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
to
m
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £966,706
The WILDCAT COLUMN
G. J. Coles & Co.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit.f 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£, £, £ £ &
’4O 278,047 12,000 171p.c.= 209,871 56,176 571,785
’4l 230,182 12,000 17| „ „ 226,015 563,952
’42 241,610 12,000 12J „ „ 151,440 68,170 632,122
A.R.P. provision, £17,600 .. .. 614,522
’43 175,569 12,000 10 p.c.= 129,152 34,417 648,939
’44 174,428 12,000 10 „ „ 129,152 33,276 682,215
’45 196,866 12,000 10 „ „ 129,152 55,714 737,929
’46 227,520 12,000 12 „ „ 154,982 60,538 798,467
’47 227,271 12,000 12 „ „ 154,982 60,289 858,756
’4B 283,180 12,000 15 „ „ 193,727 82,453 941,209
Share premiums, £390,000 . . . . 1,331,209
’49 270,138 12,000 15 p.c.- 219,726 38,412 1,369,621
Reserves capitalised, £465,454 .. 904,167
’5O 436,320 12,000 15 p.c.= 314,323 109,997 1,014,164
* After deducting goodwill, now £54,000. t Includes
additions to freehold depreciation reserve.
Big things have happened in this large
variety-chain-store organisation over the
last 12 months or so. Outstanding have
been: (1) purchase (just before the close
of accounts in 1949) of the Stewart
Dawson properties in Pitt- and King-
streets, Sydney, (2) the issue of £465,454
of bonus scrip, (3) absorption of Sel-
fridges (A’sia), Ltd., and (4) marked ex-
pansion of the existing business, which
is scattered throughout the Common-
wealth.
The co. paid £859,335 (financed mainly
on mortgage) for the Stewart Dawson
freeholds. They include 183-189 Pitt-
street and 107-117 King-street, which
takes in the Pitt-street half of the Strand
and Little Strand Arcades, and includes
premises occupied by Selfridges. The
intention is to put up—when material
and labor become available —a modern
10-storey building on this site, which is
opposite Coles’s Pitt-street (Sydney) store,
where the co. remains on a monthly
tenancy, the long lease from the Albert
family having run out. Meanwhile the
newly-acquired properties turn in rentals.
The issue of bonus scrip, which was
in the ratio of three for ten, came from
share-premium reserve—a relic of capital
control—reducing it to £79,352. The
gift raised paid capital to the present
figure of £2,166,969 in 150,000 £1 8 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 8,067,875 ords. of ss.
each. The bonus shares joined in the
final 10 p.c. div., thus making the 15 p.c.
for the year worth 18 p.c. on capital
as it stood before the gift.
Selfridges a rival variety-chain
organisation with 16 stores in N.S.W.,
a subsidiary in New Zealand and another
in Westralia —had a paid capital of
£285,000 in £1 ord. shares, backed by
reserves of £107,072 (£17,447 of it repre-
sented by intangibles) at July 31, 1949.
For the 12 months to that date the co.
netted £48,644, or 12.4 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds, which was approximately
the rate earned by Coles on its funds for
the preceding year. The 'p r ' ce paid by
Coles for the business was £350,505. It
is thus plain that the deal will not weigh
down the earning-power of the pur-
chaser.
Payment (made on July 28, 1950) was
in scrip—five Coles f.-p. ss. ords. for
each f.-p. £1 ord. in Selfridges. Early
in 1950 Selfridges shares stood at 41s.
9d. in the market; Coles ords. recently
sold at 275. 9d, On these figures Sel-
fridges shareholders can see a capital
profit in the market of 975. per share on
their original holding, and a 15 p.c. div.
on their Coles shares would be worth
IST p.c. on the face-value of the scrip
they surrendered. Selfridges paid 10 p.c.
Coles’s own business, which got no
benefit from the Selfridge deal last term,
continues to expand rapidly. Stocks are
now turned over at an average of six to
seven times a year as against five times a
few years ago. The improvement is due
to an expanding economy, inflation and a
better flow of goods into the stores,
which now total 150 scattered throughout
the Commonwealth. The profit claimed
last term was £393,628 (up £158,499),
which is reconciled with the figure in the
table by inclusion of £42,692 added to
freehold depreciation reserve (now
£439,235). The £436,320 (up £166,182)
of profit thus shown covered the pref.
div, and 21 p.c. on average ord. capital as
against 17.6, 21.3, 16.6, 16.7 and 14.3
p.c. back to 1945. The div. was kept at
15 p.c., making the average 13.8 p.c.
over the last five years.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Capital— £ £ £
Ord £1,291,515 £1,551,515 £2,016,969
Pref 150,000 150,000 150,000
Mortgages, etc. .. 301,001 • 1,036,296 981,296
Overdraft .. 174,554 274,351
Creditors . . 240,670 293,353 426,003
Employees’ funds 15,770 15,448 11,437
Tax reserve .. 232,386 412,385 873,159
Final divs. '.. 129,151 155,151 236,747
Freeholds . , 1,555,821 2,524,876 2,668,551
Leaseholds .. 129,317 134,839 143,532
Fittings, etc. .. 290,076 351,822 372,308
Stocks ~ ~ 1,457,613 1,783,225 2,180,695
Debtors .. .. 26,069 22,580 34,762
Cash, etc. .. 17,360 166,427 84,278
The growth in capital (up £465,454) re-
flects the bonus issue. The Stewart
Dawson deal shows up in the 1949 mort-
gage figures. Settlement for the Sel-
fridge purchase was made shortly after
the books were ruled off. To help meet
net additions of £142,675 to freeholds and
£397,470 to stocks the co. went to its
bankers for .£274,351 and increased the
amount coming to sundry creditors by
£132,650.
To help finance further expansion of
the business over the next 12 months or
so, including purchase*of premises and
equipment, those on the register at
Nov. 30 next are to be offered
4,734,948 new ss. ords. at par, one for
two. The issue, payable in full Feb. 23,
1951, will lift paid capital to £3,701,213
in 150,000 £1 8 p.c. cum, prefs. and
14,204,852 ords. of ss. each. On that lot
the pref. div, and 15 p.c., to the ords. will
call for £544,682, or £151,054 more
profit than was claimed last term. Since
the cost of building and equipping new
stores is now at least three times what it
was pre-war, new capital cannot be ex-
pected to earn at the same rate as the old,
and there is no certainty that the 15 p.c.
div. will be maintained. However, a 13
p.c. div. would be equal to approximately
15 p.c. after allowing for the bonus issue.
Anticipating yet further benefits, the
market prices the ords. at 275. 9d., equal
to 20s. 3d. net after exercising the rights.
The return at 20s. 3d. would be 3.2 p.c.
on a 13 p.c. div. basis, or 3.7 p.c. if the
15 p.c. distribution is maintained. The
prefs. at 395. 9d. yield 4 p.c.
Meggitt, Ltd.
, Dividends N
Pref.*
May, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Deflcit.t
£ 1 £ £ £
1940.. 40,821 4000 10 p.c. = 32,737 33,232
1941.. 39,788 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 30,181
1942.. 29,887 3100 7f „ „ 25,371 28,765
1943.. 30,859 3100 7J „ „ 26,371 26,377
J 944., 31,242 3100 7$ „ 25,371 23,608
1945.. 31,660 3100 7J „ 25,371 20,419
1946.. 33,468 3100 75 „ „ 25,371 15,422
1947.. 34,018 3100 7f „ „ 25,371 9,875
1948.. 40,769 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 6,843
Reserves.
1949.. 46,192 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 3,612
1950.. 58,786 4000 12£ „ „ 46,148 12,250
To staff fund, £5OOO .. i. .. 7,250
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act.
t After deducting goodwill, £115,748.
This co. turns out linseed-oil and linseed-
cake and -nuts from well-equipped
factories at Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide
and Brisbane. The Brisbane plant, just
completed (well ahead of schedule), didn’t
come into production until after the close
of accounts, which means that a lot of
money was represented by assets that
were not earning anything last term.
The oil, a ton of which results from every
two tons of stock food produced, is taken
mainly by the hungry paint- and lino.-
manufacturing industries, while the cake
and nuts find a ready market in dairying
and pastoral circles, where they are used
to enrich butterfats and enhance the pro-
duction of fat-lambs, mutton, beef and
wool.
Despite difficulties, there has been a
steady improvement in net earnings over
the last five years. Failure of the Indian
linseed crop resulted in the co.’s mills
closing down as manufacturing units
during the 1947 term, when activities were
confined to processing and packing im-
ported oils ; and conditions in this respect
didn’t improve greatly during the 1948
term either. Still, what the co. missed on
the swings—sales of stock foods were
severely restricted —it picked up on the
roundabouts.
More seed came forward during the
1949 term, and the mills got going again,
though they operated much below
capacity. Last term they crushed at a
better rate, despite the coal strike, which
interrupted output early in the term.
And, since the price of the seed eased,
the co. was able to reduce its selling-
prices to customers. The demand for oil
exceeded the outturn, and large quantities
of the stuff had to be imported from
India and South America.
After allowing £20,886 (down £12,062)
for depreciation, etc., and whatever
was considered necessary for taxa-
tion and other contingencies, the
board wrote net earnings £12,594
stronger at a record £58,786. That
covered full pref. requirements (£4000) and
14.8 p.c. on ord. capital as against 12.9,
11.2, 9.1, 9, 8.4 and 8.3 px. back to 1944.
A p.c. bonus was added to the 10 p.c.
div., making 12| p.c. for the year, which
is the best rate paid since the co. was
formed 39 years ago. After sending
£5OOO to the staff fund, the lay-by was
lifted £7250 in excess of goodwill
(£115,748), not treated as an asset herein.
Two new factories are presently to be
erected, one in Victoria and another
in South Australia. To help meet the
outlay on land bought for the purpose,
and on the Brisbane factory, £41,813 of
fresh capital was gathered—the remain-
ing 15s. on 55,751 ords.:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £367,369 £367,369 £367,369 £409,182
Sndy. creditors 300,033 730,312 564,560 1,400,751
Overdraft .. 184,037 272,618
Staff fund . . 24,000 24,000 24,000 29,000
Deprec. reserve 181,575 196,919 232,106 251.637
Final divs. .. 14,236 22,501 22,501 29,689
Premises . . 112,504 112,675 118,264 136,2,07
Plant.. 249,904 250,980 255,124 292,865
Stocks .. 239,860 833,365 725,458 963,163
Book debts .. 33,574 146,714 219,209 240,654
Cash, etc. . . 241,495 175,561 168,710 494,559
Goodwill . . 115,748 115,748 115,748 115,748
The year’s growth of £836,191 in the
amount coming to sundry creditors, the
elimination of the overdraft (£272,618 at
previous balance) and additions of
£237,705 to stocks and £325,849 to cash,
etc., are interrelated movements mainly
associated with the import of seed and
oil. The increase of £21,445 in debtors’
balances is due to bigger trading. The
improvement in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£238,936) was £9238.
Since the close of accounts raw
materials from overseas have continued
to arrive in good volume, but the price
has increased, and so have operating costs,
while delays in shipping and the possi-
bility of an alteration in the exchange-
rate add to the uncertainties. Still, the
co. has an overflowing order-book, the
Brisbane factory will help to swell turn-
over, and the outlook for the business
generally is expansive, with the possibility
of shareholders being asked for more
later on.
At 475. 6d. (355. a year ago) the pound
ords. return 5.1 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. distri-
bution. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is 20s. Id. The well-protected prefs.
seldom appear on ’Change.
Cash Orders (Amalgamated), Ltd. (Syd.)
i Dividend N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1941.. 80,070 lOp.c. 15 p.c. 71,426 8,644 120,440
1942.. 73,817 10 „ 15 „ 71,426 2,391122,831
1943.. 54,107 10 „ 10 „ 52,618 1,489124,320
1944.. 52,676 10 „ 10 ~ 52,618 58124,378
1945.. 57,569 10 „ 10 „ 52,618 4,951 129,329
1946.. 66,660 10 „ 12J „ 62,022 4,638138,967
1947.. 76,668 10 „ 15 „ 71,426 5,242139,209
From tax reserve, £ 30,000 .. ..169,209
1948.. 105,007 lOp.c. 15 p.c. 71,426 33,581 202,790
From bad-debts reserve, £30,000 .. 232,790
1949.. 114,515 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 71,426 43,089 275,879
From bad-debts reserve, £30,000 . . 305,879
1950.. 120,294 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 75,893 44,401 350,280
This co. and its three subsidiaries —
Amalgamated Furnishing Co. (N.S.W.),
Amalgamated Cash Orders Pty. {Vic.)
and Amalgamated Retailers (Vic.) —•
operate in the three eastern States, where
they are vendors of short-term credit,
furniture and furnishings. On the cash-
order and discount side the group has 16
branches in N. S. Wales, five in Queens-
land and four in Victoria. Furniture
showrooms number five N.S.W., three
Vic. and two in the northern State. An
expanding economy, inflation and the
activity in home-building have sent turn-
over along with a rush since war ended.
The figure rose from nearly £3 million in
1947 to just under £5 million last term,
when the improvement was over
£500,000. Time-payment contracts
(largely in connection with sales by the
furniture subsidiary) and small loans con-
stitute the bulk of the business, followed
by furniture and cash-orders.
The retail furniture side is ex-
panding rapidly. In this connection
half-a-dozen properties were bought last
term —one each at Sydney, Newcastle,
Nowra, Brisbane, Ipswich and Mel-
bourne. Only the Sydney one is already
occupied; the Ipswich deal also included
the business of Walker’s Furnishing Co.
To help finance the purchases and pro-
vide for growth in other sections of the
business, 250,784 new 12s. ords. were
issued at par half-way through the term.
When all the money is in (there was
£28,935 to come when the books closed),
paid capital will be £676,647 in 150,000
£1 10 p.c. cum. prefs. and 877,745 ords.
of 12s. each. The pref. div, and 15 p.c.
to the ords. will then call for £92,997, or
£27,297 less profit than was claimed last
term.
The improvement in the parent’s gross
earnings (£684,221) was £65,795. Exes.
(£563,927) took £60,016 of the gain—
they include an unspecified provision for
taxation, bad debts and other con-
tingencies, as well as £20,000 (same as
previous term) sent to the staff fund. The
net result was thus £5779 stronger at
£120,294, which covered pref. require-
ments and 25.9 p.C. on average ord.
capital as against 26.4, 23.9, 16.3, 13.7,
11.3 and 10 p.c. back to 1944. The div.
was kept at 15 p.c. And for the second
year in succession £30,000 was trans-
ferred from the inner reserve against bad
debts. Before the war the practice was
to allow 10 p.c. of all new accounts as
provision for contingencies, to write off
50 p.c. of any debts two months in arrears
and the entire amount where no collec-
tion had been made for four months.
Post-war developments to-date have
reduced the risks.
All-round expansion is the keynote of
the parent’s balance-sheet figures:
1947. 1948; 1949. 1950.
Paid capital. . £526,177 £526,177 £526,177 £647,712
Mortgage . . 12,350 12,350 12,350 12,350
Overdraft . . 113,668 114,667 187,373 217,280
Creditors* . . 187,152 339,572 408,353 481,822
Final divs. .. 35,713 35,713 35,713 40,180
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 63,604 82,380 84,804 124,069
Equipment . . 16,305 22,478 30,379 42,105
Investments .. 142,167 162,473 189,456 209,606
Stock . . 132,637 189,737 212,277 259,693
Book debts .. 623,973 764,413 923,895 1,098,340
Cash, etc. . . 35,584 9,787 5,034 15,813
* Includes provision for taxation and amounts owing
to subsidiaries.
The £121,535 of fresh capital gathered,
together with surplus earnings and an
extra £103,376 from outsiders, went into
book debts (up £174,445, due partly to
the disclosure of inner reserves), stocks


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established IST 8
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORSs
O. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
From
Scotland
every
precious
drop
HACK l WHITE
BUCHANAN’S
BLACK&WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distilled and blended in Scotland
By Appointment
*o H.M. Kin* George VI,
f
Scotch Whisky Distillers.
James Buchanan & Co. ltd.
Ames', buchanan and' co.‘ ltd.. Glasgow. Scotland
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l,
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Position Vacant.
SURVEYOR.
DITTMER GOLD MINES LTD. require
an experienced Mine Surveyor to conduct
a full survey of workings. Kindly apply
to the Secretary, G.P.Q. Box 2089, Syd-
ney, or phone 8W3335 for appointment.
The Machinery
People
»JI
281 Latrobe St., Melbourne. MU 2321
• Engineers’ Machine Tools. • Portable
Electric Tools • Woodworking Machines.
• Circular and Band Saws. • All types
Saw Repairs.
Time too is flying!
When you Have to count the minutes,
rely on BP Aviation Service. At airports
all over the world—including those of
Melbourne and Sydney—it gets you on
your way in the shortest possible time,
Qantas Empire Airways, Trans-
Australia Air Lines and many other
national airlines are regularly fuelled by
this great Service, which has behind it the
global resources and reputation of the
Angto-lranian Oil Company. Ltd.
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., MELBOURNE.
Telegraphic Address “AIRBEEPEE” Melbourne.
073/9512
'juk
w
A
m
r
V/
AA
/A
'A/'/.
A
/SLa
100A1391S
/
/£
r/y
I§OIU[O sS**t a ?A i
|l|tff>
aoB
9
/
B.i. Slagwoool is the modern insulating material
which proofs the whole building against extremes
in temperature.
8.1. Sfagwool is easily applied to new or old struc-
tures. Live in absolute comfort Winter and Sum-
mer; line your home with 8.1. Slagwool and save
on fuel costs too.
For full particulars call, tcrite or phone . a s
SrScWOOi
/ ,
insulation
PTT.I
LTD.
Phones: SYDNEY, 8X5584: MELBOURNE, HU 3506
BRISBANE 83604 : 8.1. (S.A.) LTD. ADELAIDE
Cen. 7257: 8.1. (W.A.) LTD. PERTH L 2107
TODAYS PROTECTION
TOMORROWS SECURITY
Fifty-five years of service to
the public is the proud record
of the Metropolitan. Policies
to suit every purpose.
EVERY YEAR A BONUS
YEAR.
■
ASSURANCE COMPANY LTD
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREET SYDNEY
(up £47,416), investments (mainly
shares in subsidiaries, up
£20,150), equipment (up £11,726)
and freeholds (up £39,265). The
improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£622,214) was
£142,797.
The market notes the expan-
sive outlook, which favors
another good showipg at next
balance, and that shareholders
might be asked for more later
on. It therefore prices the ords.
at 41s. 6d. as against 295. a year
ago. At the higher figure the
return is 4.3 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis. The pound prefs. at
345. 9d. yield 5.7 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £6 16s. lid.
prefs. and 19s. lid. ords.
Australian Wool Brokers
t Dividends
Ist 2nd Re-
June Proflt.Pref. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
SO, £ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
’44.. 6,097 7 Nil Nil 1,680 606
’45.. 2,407 7 5 Nil 2,389 624
’46. . 7,244 14 10 Nil 4,883 2,985
Assets written up, £35,000.. 37,985
’47.. 6,984 14 10 5 6,913 38,056
’48..14,814 7 5 5 4,812 48,058
’49..31,402 9 10 10 17,066 62,894
Assets revaluation reserve,
£101,836 164,230
From' inner reserves, £8318.. 172,548
’50..46,993 9 10 12* 20,041 199,500
* After deducting goodwill, now eliminated
from the accounts.
It has been a remarkable and
very profitable transformation.
For nearly 20 years the co.
limped along in the woolbrok-
ing and agency business earning
little more than the pref. divs.
called for. Then, just as the sea-
sons began to improve and the
steep gradient in wool prices be-
gan, it was decided that the co.
should become a run-owner on
its own account.
In 1947 and 1948 Glenroy
(35,385 acres) and Merrigal
(10,000 acres), two adjoining
properties some 20 miles south
of Moree (N.S.W.), were bought.
In the following year Balarang
(30,000 acres, stocked with
12,000 sheep), about 70 miles
north of Moree, was taken over
as a wholly-owned subsidiary.
Total cost of these properties ap-
pears to have been in the neigh-
borhood of £200,000, which was
provided by a par. issue of
76,506 new £1 ords. in 1948 and
sale of the co.’s broking and
agency business and Pyrmont
(Sydney) wool-store to Golds-
brough Mort. The store stood
in the books at £90,000 and
goodwill at £20,000.
The gains in turnover, which
has grown with the properties
acquired and the rocketing
of wool and livestock prices,
outstripped the advance in
costs, and the value of
the properties has increased, too.
Last term’s figures were the
first to get the full benefit of the
Balarang purchase. This sub-
sidiary sent along £22,000 (£9500
of it in respect of the previous
term) in divs., and the parent’s
net earnings were £15,591
stronger at £46,993, Combined
p. and 1. figures of the parent
and subsidiary show a net profit
of £39,236, which covered the
maximum pref, divs, and 28.5
p.c. on ord. capital. After a
long drought, the ords. came
into the picture in 1947 with
5 p.c., followed by 5, 10 and
then 12i p.c, last term.
During the year the Glenroy
and Merrigal properties were
independently revalued and
written up in, the books by
£101,836, and a reserve of like
amount was created. This
doesn’t affect their earning-power
one way or the other, but
merely dresses the window in
accordance with today’s inflated
land values. The year’s net
growth in the book-value of
freeholds was £102,922:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital— £ £ £
Ord 40,602 118,036 118,785
Pref. .. 55,333 55,333 55,333
Overdraft ~ 85,999 137,980
Sundry
creditors .. 76,829 56,646 2,071
Tax provision.. 11,000 22,867 15,500
Final divs. .. 2,520 11,023 11,496
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 180,248 112,399 215,321
Plant, etc. .. 9,782 15,342 15,252
Shares
subsidiary .. 150 93,834 93,684
Livestock, etc. 39,163 59,192 43,134
Book debts .. 67,275 179,788 17,820
Cash, etc. .. 3,724 3,723 17,474
Goodwill .. 20,000
The shrinkage of £161,968 in
book debts and elimination of
the overdraft (£137,980 at the
previous balance) mainly reflect
settlement of the sale to Golds-
brough Mort. Livestock (down
£16,058) appears at or under
cost, which is as it should be.
Excluding shares in the sub-
sidiary (whose property has been
written up by £76,386), more or
less liquids exceeded the debt
(including final divs.) by
£49,361.
The immediate seasonal out-
look is excellent, wool prices
are up 50 p.c. or more on last
season’s levels, and the co. has
suffered little loss on account
of recent floods. As a holding
proposition, however, scrip in
pastoral cos. is a question of
average rather than immediate
returns. The co.’s performance
over the last few years cannot
therefore be taken as a reliable
guide to the future possibilities.
The £174,118 of capital, re-
cently split into ss. share units,
is in 98,400 first 7 p.c. and
122,932 second 5 p.c. prefs. and
500,000 ords.—there was £6215
at call when the books closed.
The first and second prefs. par-
ticipate point for point with the
ords. beyond their minimum
contract rates to 9 p.c. and 10
p.c. respectively. The ords. at
15s. 9d. return 4 p.c. on a 12\
p.c. div. basis. The second
prefs. at 10s. yield 5 p.c. so
long as the 10 p.c. distribution
continues. The firsts seldom
come onto the market. Com-
bined accounts show net tangible
cover (mainly properties) of
£3 17s. 3d. firsts, £2 17s. lOd.
seconds and I2s. lid. ords.
Melbourne - controlled Tin -
songkhla, operating in southern
Siam, expects its existing leases
to be worked out in April, 1951.
So the board is on the hunt for
a working agreement with
another co. having a satisfactory
property but no dredge. At Feb.
28, 1950, ore on hand, book
debts, cash, etc., totalled £71,142.
Current liabilities amounted to
£14,101 (including arrears of
pref. divs.), and there was a
Government rehabilitation loan
of £29,229. After offsetting ad-
vances already made, co.’s war-
damage claims, etc,, have been
assessed at £544,337 net. Paid
capital is £185,729 in 141,500
30s. shares paid to 265. 6d. each,
of which 10,000 are 6 p.c. cum.
prefs. Sellers ask 15s. for the
ords., which sold at 12s. 6d. a
month or so ago, The prefs. are
not listed.


PENFOLDS \
BRANDY )
mmmsmmmm
i -AQjtvaa mzmoH
» Kvny«isftv ........
;if «. ,
mm
•W-UdSXW
*P
The importance of
Planning yonr Will
Your Estate will not yield its
maximum for the protection of
your dependents unless your Will
has been carefully planned.
Changing conditions and the
complexities of taxation arc two
important problems to be consid-
ered; there are many others known
to those whose business it is to
administer Estates, but which can
easily be overlooked by those not
so experienced.
By discussing your problems, in confidence, with
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited, you will have the
benefit of the Company’s more than 63 years experience
in the administration of Estates to advise you in your
planning.
By appointing Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as
your Executor and Trustee alone or jointly with a
relative or friend you will solve another important
problem; you will ensure that, when your guiding hand
is withdrawn, your Estate will be efficiently and econom-
ically managed in the best interests of your dependents.
The Company has wide experience in the handling
of Estates of many different kinds—investment, industrial
and pastoral. It has gained the confidence of the public
to such a degree that it has become the largest Trustee
Company in the Southern Hemisphere.
There is a helpful and informative booklet “Your
Executor and Trustee” that describes the services the
Company has to offer and the charges.
*Phone B 0377 or write for a copy to-day.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS. ADMINISTRATION BTfi.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £70,000,000.
DIRECTORS;
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; B. R. KNOX:
ALLEN C. LEWIS: Hon. J. P. ABBOTT; D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, . Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAM WORTH and ORANGE
vr-
' '-I B B
Eg® 5 n
SS Bits
IbC rir,:
s prt
5r r r
Em
ill
OPPORTUNITY STILL KNOCKS
The years following the war
found Australia in a splendid
position to build up its industrial
strength and at the same time
supply the world with many of
its essential requirements, in re-
turn for materials and equip-
ment necessary to our own ex-
pansion and welfare. Our steel
industry could during that time
have undersold any competitor
in the world, and the demand for
our woollen textiles was such
that a large dollar income could
have been won had we enough
cloth to send away. There was
a great demand also for our
chemicals, metals, land products
and—-of course—coal, the last-
mentioned mineral, when dug
from the Maitland field, being
of particularly high quality.
It is now a matter of history
that we lost our golden oppor-
tunity. The Chifley Govern-
ment, which, however kindly one
may view its members, was
largely composed of citizens
whose lifetime study was poli-
tics rather than production,
launched a Socialistic class-war
as soon as World War II was
over, and the Communists
enthusiastically took up the
Chifley cause on the far-Left
flank.
It is not the slightest exag-
geration to say that for five
years the No. 1 problem of
Australian industry was the
menace of Chifley Socialism and
the militant front of Com-
munist-led trade-unionism. For
five years after the war the
Commonwealth went through an
orgy of political irresponsibility,
and during that orgy the Com-
munists, through the unions,
struck ruinously against the
efficiency of our basic industries
and the stability of our finances.
The steel industry, foundation
of so many other industries, was
ripe for expansion. It was de-
liberately starved of coal, and
output figures reached in 1942-
43, when Soviet Russia’s plight
following the German invasion
brought a temporary change in
the local Communists’ tactics,
have never been regained in the
post-war years. This may seem
almost incredible when it is re-
membered that in those war
years iron-ore vessels were being
sunk off our coast by Japanese
submarines and that low-grade
ores were being scratched up
from various parts of the Com-
monwealth. Also, despite the
number of men in the forces,
coal output around the 1942-43
period was at a higher rate
than it is today.
It is a fact also that since the
war, partly because of the
Chifley idea of “redistributing
the national income,” partly be-
cause of the discouragement of
thrift, and largely, again, be-
cause of the lack of coal and
steel with which to make capi-
tal goods, there has been an
emphasis in Australia on con-
sumer spending, Mr. Chifley’s
late Minister for Commerce and
Agriculture proudly boasted of
the amount of beer and ice-
cream available under post-war
“Labor” Governments, and
about the number of people who
had the money and leisure to
frequent picture-shows. Profes-
sor Copland pithily summed-up
the situation as a “milk-bar
economy.”
Diversion of our national in-
come preponderantly to con-
sumption has strained industry
to meet that trend. Today we
have a distorted economy that
is failing to maintain itself on
the re-equipment side. We are
in danger of serious breakdowns
in transport, by land and sea,
and of the obsolescence and de-
preciation of many other indus-
tries:
Up to a point, present-day
Australians have squandered an
inheritance of great potentiali-
“Funny, they've made your Wool cheque out to
Mr. Fadden, Dad."
ties. The wanton breaking-
down of efficiency in the coal,
steel and transport industries
has been a staggering blow to
this young country. While the
Chifley Government . was in
power it replied to the pleas of
the managerial side of industry
with a sneer, and instead of
attempting to stop the rot in the
trade-union movement (any dis-
ciplinary action against that sort
of thing was described as
“crucifying the workers” by Mr,
Chifley) he preoccupied himself
with plans to nationalise the
banks and airlines and to ham-
string other industries prior to
their swallowing by his would-
be Socialistic monopoly.
Mr. Chifley and his Socialists
had a long run, and it was prob-
ably 18 months longer than it
would have been had the elec-
tors been given the chance of
with him at any time
during 1948. He was returned
to office with a reduced majority
in 1946; he went out with a
thud in 1949. And since his
party was defeated in 1949 it has
devoted its activities to obstruct-
ing the Menzies Government in
its efforts to restore discipline
to the trade-unions and produc-
tivity and efficiency to industry.
This has been clearly evident in
the “Labor” Senate’s attitude to-
wards the Communist-party Dis-
solution Bill and other essential
legislation. And, in the Repre-
sentatives, “Labor” has merely
been mocking the Government
in its attempts to restore value
to the pound which became so
depreciated under Socialism.
Again a great industrial op-
portunity presents itself to Aus-
tralia if it can overcome its
political and trade-union prob-
lem. But there is no sign that
the Chifley and McGirr “Labor”
parties are prepared to co-
operate. They are still ready to
burn down our industrial and
economic house in order to get
their Socialistic pig roasted to
their liking.
The nation is in the throes of
a production depression at a
time when the population shows
signs of a vigorous increase. In-
flation in costs is threatening
our economic equilibrium on all
sides. Yet if the coalmining
unions did anything remotely re-
sembling a fair and regular
week’s work for their pay out-
put of coal could be increased
by 50 p.c. and most of our pro-
duction problems would be
overcome in one act. The
management of B.H.P, has made
it quite clear that the main ob-
stacle in the way of their operat-
ing at full capacity (which
would mean 50 p.c. more steel
than is being produced now) is
inadequate supplies of coal.
Give B.H.P. the coal and it can
produce the steel; give other in-
dustries the steel and they can
produce the machinery and the
factories for a thousand other
products.
It will be a tragedy indeed for
this country if its hope of pro-
gress is again thwarted by sheer
political sectionalism and ob-
stinacy. At the moment, if the
rate of man-hour production
stood at the level it should (with
no unemployment and ample
supplies of raw materials it
ought to stand at a rate far
above the pre-war average), our
buoyant wool cheque would
help to build up economic
strength in the Commonwealth
the like of which we have never
before seen. But with the pre-
sent politically-created produc-
tion depression our economy is
quite out of balance, and the
large wool cheque, where spent
on locally - produced goods,
merely increases the money
available to buy the same inade-
quate amount of industrial pro-
duction, especially that produc-
tion which has its beginning in
pig-iron and steel ingots.
Federal Parliament will re-
open towards the end of this
month. The Government will
no doubt meet with further op-
position to its anti-Red bill and
with a barrage of flippant ques-
tions about when it is going to
put value back into the pound.
The larrikinism of “Labor” at
this stage is outrageous. The
Government will be wise to lift
its political ear from the ground
and to keep its constructive eye
on what the country really
needs. Bold leadership during
the next few months could lay
the foundation of great things
for Australia.
Share Prices
The sharemarket went through
a levelling-off stage last week:
though several stocks notched
further records, among others
there was a reaction, especially
among the leaders. 8.H.P., which
had risen to 58s. at one stage,
sold at 555. on Friday. William
Adams, which had been above
395., came back to 365. 6d., then
recovered to 375. 9d.
But it remained a strong share-
market, in spite of profit-taking
and talk of revaluation of the
Australian pound following the
leap in the price of wool. Even
Winchcombe, Carson and Golds-
brough Mort kept near to recent
peaks.
Should revaluation occur there
may be a considerable repatria-
tion to overseas countries of
“hot” money at present lying
invested in Australia. But there
ar£ large Australian investment
funds which should be able to
take up the slack as time goes
by.


Ex-Naval Men
Wanted
for 2 Years'
Service
in the NAN.
In view of the present inter-
national situation, ex-naval
men, particularly ex-chief
petty officers and ex-petty
officers of the Seaman
Branch, are invited to re-
enter for TWO YEARS’
SERVICE in the Permanent
Naval Forces.
A6E LIMIT FOR RE-ENTRY
47 YEARS
Applicants must not have
been outside the Service for
more than five years and
must have held confirmed
Able rate or above.
Men re-entering for TWO
YEARS will not become
contributors to the Defence
Forces Retirement Benefits
Fund, but will receive a
gratuity of £2O per annum,
payable on completion of a
two years’ engagement, or if
later, on discharge, supple-
mented pro rata for each
additional completed month
of service. This payment
will not be in the nature of
Deferred Pay computed on a
daily basis.
For full details apply:
The Naval Recruiting Officer
in your Capital City.
MAN.94.9U00
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £67,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£11,000,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
64 YEARS OP SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
OUR SECOND RELEASE
OF GEORGE CARSON-COOLING’S
REMARKABLE BOOK
“HERE’S A VILLAIN”
“A revelation of skullduggery in edu-
cation There are chapters which
approach violence.” —Sydney Bulletin.
AT ALL BOOKSTALLS—PEIOE 16/-
Watson Ferguson & Company—Publishers
c lhc
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
{lncorporated in England)
cheque account with the (Sank is ad
convenient to the private individuaias it is
essentiai to the business bouse,
branch wi advise you.
OF
AO
ESTABLISHED 1837
UM
Branches throughout Australia & New Zealand
If any illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
GRINHELL
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER
"simplex"
EXTINGUISHERS
"WATERLOO 1 * STEEL
ROLLER SHUTTERS
ROLLING GRILLES
II
WATERLOO TIM
CLAD FIRE DOORS
TT
U
'metalbilt'* fire
RESISTING DOORS
010
df
ESAVIAN DOOR
AND WINDOW
FITTINGS
A Complete Service in the specialised field of Fire Protection
. . . safeguarding millions of pounds worth of property in
Australia and New Zealand.
m
wm
:
w
I
1I | I
m
TBS
■
immK
FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT ENGINEERED
TO MEET ALL HAZARDS
"GRINNELL" Automatic Sprinkler and Fire Alarm System.
"MULSIPYRE" System for the protection of special risks.
"NATIONAL" Aer-o-foam Installations, Nozzles and Solutions for
the protection of inflammable liquids.
HYDRANT installations, hose and fittings.
"LUX" 002 Fire-fighting Equipment. Fixed installations and hand
extinguishers for large industrial hazards and electrical risks.
"SIMPLEX" Hand Chemical Fire Extinguishers. A type for every
' class of fire risk.
BUILDING LlNES—Service to the building trade
"WATERLOO" Steel Roller Shutters and Tin-Clad Fire Doors.
"METALBILT" One-hour Type Fire-resisting Doors and Rolling Grilles,
"METALBILT" Pressed Steel Domestic Door Frames.
"BANGOR" Sliding Door Track and Fittings.
"OVERHEAD" latest type of door for garages.
"ESAVIAN" Door and Window Fittings.
WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRIES
LIMITED
Head Office: 57 Young Street, Waterloo, Sydney.
Fire Protection Engineers since 1889
CONTROLLING THE IMPORTANT GROUP OF MANUFACTURING COMPANIES
Wormald Brothers (East) Ltd., Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, Townsville.
Wormald Brothers (South) Ltd., Melbourne, Perth, Hobart.
Wormald Brothers (S.A.) Ltd., Adelaide.
Wormald Brothers (N.Z.) Ltd., Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
STEELBILT LTD., Sydney
Shelving, Lockers and Cupboards.
KIRSGH CO. (AUST.) LTD., Sydney
All-metal Venetian Blinds and Curtain Rods.
Callide Coal
“Transporticus” (Singapore):
It’s a great pity that “W’gabba”
(B. 24/5/’5O) didn’t take the
trouble to read the Powell-Duff-
ryn report on Queensland coal
before rushing into print with ian
attack on both the report and its
authors. The one thing which is
made perfectly clear right from
the start is that, having had to
omit ail references to Blair
Athol —it was done at the very
last minute the firm also
omitted all references to the ex-
port of coal from the State, and
nowhere is there any “pointed
reference to the improbability of
finding a market for the full out-
put of Blair Athol.”
Furthermore, the English in-
terests which were investigating
the possibilities of the place had
dropped out long before that re-
port was tabled, and they had
dropped out for one reason
alone: the impossibility of find-
ing a dependable market capable
of absorbing 3i million —not
three million —tons a year which
they reckoned was the least on
which the show could be de-
veloped.
“W’gabba’s” reasoning that
we are short of two million tons
a year now and may be down
three million tons by 1952 is
irrelevant. We’re not short of
coal —there’s enough, including
opencuts, within 150 miles of
Sydney to supply the whole of
Australia indefinitely. What
we’re short of is the willingness
to dig the stuff. Moreover,
neither a concrete two million
tons nor a problematical three
million in the future can be
made to equal a figure of 3£
million.
Nor is it certain that there will
be a rise in demand; rather the
reverse. Heavy industry may go
up, so may power demand, until
the Snowy River scheme comes
into operation; but the largest
single user, transport, is moving
away from coal as fast as it can.
Coastal shipping is almost en-
tirely dependent on oil. Rail-
ways, if they can survive the
present level of entirely oil-using
competition, will do so by dieseli-
sation, well on the way in all
States bar Queensland. Take
them out of the picture and you’ll
be closing mines down rather
than opening them up.
I’m fully in agreement with
“W’gabba” that the coal is there
and that it’s a scandal that no-
thing is being done about it.
Where we differ is that he seems
to be making an overseas firm
the scapegoat, and I’m not having
it.
“Value and the Pound”
From R. Lock, Sydney; Im-
plicit in devaluation of currency
is an increase in the price of
gold and consequent expansion
of the credit base, and no prac-
tical purpose is served by the
physical demonstration of this by
the creation of a metallic cur-
rency which will have a decreased
quantity of gold (as suggested
by A. T. Traversi, B. 23/8/’5O)
when domestic currency in any
form is only a community’s
petty cash at any time.
Available gold resources serve
a more urgent purpose by
strengthening the dollar pool of
the sterling area. With the pre-
sent high level of world prices
and the high domestic level it is
conceivable that if gold were as
plentiful as paper a gold cur-
rency for strictly domestic pur-
poses would exhibit the same de-
fects as inconvertible paper,
although retaining its inherent
metallic attributes.
The application of our inade-
quate gold resources as a dollar-
earner is just as supplementary
as wool is to meat or zinc, and
under more favorable interna-
tional trade conditions and more
equitable distribution of the
world’s gold stocks it would only
serve as previously as an inter-
national gold standard of ex-
change.
The reference to a stone cur-
rency by Mr. Traversi and that
“one political faction would pro-
ceed upon the idea that greater
production would increase the
value of stones” makes it evi-
dent that from his point of view
the problem in its monetary
aspect is merely a matter of the
intrinsic attributes of stones,
paper or gold.
The gold position being what
it is, the plea for convertibility
is as abortive as observing that
if we had some eggs we would
have some ham and eggs if we
only had some ham. His refer-
ence to 19th-century conditions
can be discounted by the fact
that, for better or worse, this is
the 20th century.
A. T. Traversi again:
“AJ.H.” asks (B. 23 /8 / ’5O) where
the gold would be found to enable
a return to the gold standard. Both
Napoleon and Dr. Schacht faced this
problem. In the case of Dr. Schacht
it was done by borrowing gold, and
the same method is open here. He
quotes Mr, Beardmore in contending
that the miracle was in the continued
fall of the old mark ? but there was
nothing but inevitability in this, since
it has always been the fate of un-
redeemable paper money.
The miracle of the new mark con-
sisted in the marvellous effect of Dr.
Schacht’s reform. In the case of
France before Napoleon, and Russia
after the first world war, they had
simply substituted a new inconvertible
paper-money swindle for the old;
but Dr. Schacht, as well as Napoleon,
rose far above this.
Anyone reading Dr. Schacht’s book
can see the enormous opposition he
had to face and the amazing celerity
with which he effected his reform,
with a staff of only one besides him-
self. As to the old mark, I think
that the effect of foreign buying of
the paper was infinitesimal as com-
pared with the effect on the German
people themselves.
While on the subject, may I
reiterate that never in the world yet
has any unredeemable or inconvertible
paper money failed to reach zero.
A very simple arithmetical sum will
show anyone that on our official
exchange rates our present paper
pound is worth only ss. 7d., and
when we allow for the fact that the
present paper dollar is less in value
than the present gold dollar it will
be realised that our pound is worth
less still than ss. 7d.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Summer is here, so perhaps spring
can’t be far behind. Although the azaleas
are blooming in the Botanic Gardens,
spring hats and dresses haven’t begun to
blossom yet, being steadfastly kept in
tissue-paper till the October race-
meeting.
The warmth did bring out a pretty crop
of chiffon-, taffeta- and lace-stoles at the
Government House reception this week,
Elizabeth Northcott draping a misty-rose
pink tulle one around her shoulders when
she assisted the Governor in entertaining
the guests. Stoles seem to be completely
replacing sturdier wraps for summer
evenings. However, when Mrs. Lisle
Alderton, wife of the N.Z. High Com-
missioner, regretted that she couldn’t
wear her perfectly new squirrel coat,
everyone chorused that it was never too
warm to wear a new fUr coat. Mrs.
Eccles, beautifully-dressed as always,
wore bronze-green. Mrs. Berryman wore
red, the season’s top color for evening.
Countess Marisa del Balzo was elegant
in black with handmade white lace and a
red rose. Mrs. F. F. Kleinenberg, wife
of the Consul-General for Norway, wore
a dress so skilfully draped and fitted and
swathed of grey and beige chiffon it
must have come from some master
designer. Government House looked, as
ever, the most perfect setting for a party,
the flowers within and the Harbor
without enhancing the beauty of the
gracious rooms.
Most touching sight of the week was
the ceremony in Martin-place when the
children of Legacy gave a display. Hand
in hand with military leaders, two little
ones, Janice Prescott and Barry Gale,
placed a wreath on the Cenotaph in
memory of their own and all other
parents who had been killed in the war.
At the opening night of “Harvey” most
Australians learned a new word, “pooka”
(known to those of Irish ancestry also as
“pookogue”). The pooka is a useful
sprite who looks after you and does things
for you. He’s very seldom seen, has
different names —Harvey in this case —
and may take any form that wishful
thinking can conjure up. Joe E. Brown’s
pooka is an enormous white rabbit, but
he could be a canary or a penguin. The
audience at the opening was gaily
dressed, and Harvey wore a felt hat with
two holes in it to accommodate his ears.
An Irishwoman who was present told a
story of a pookogue in her home who
was believed to clean the fireplace every
night. However, it turned out that the
work was done by one of the maids walk-
ing in her sleep. Today it’s easier to find
a pooka than* a maid, either asleep or
awake.
Although the critics dealt out some
hard knocks to Tom Alexander for his
play “Orney Boy,” its premiere at the
Independent certainly deserved the term
“gala.” Sydney’s social topliners and
theatrical powers turned up in their
gladdest rags and highest spirits (which
might account a little for their gusts of
laughter at some of the more tragic
moments of the play). Someone should
award a prize to Tom for being surely
Sydney’s handsomest playwright, and to
Laura for her gay competence as hostess
to the party after the show. Their
daughter, Laura Lee, dewy in white
broderie Anglaise, was the youngest of
the guests, who included Sir Harry and
Lady Moxham, Sir Claude and Lady
Plowman, Mrs. Florence Taylor (her hat
and white flower were charming), Dr.
Robert Paterson and Mrs. Paterson, Miss
Strella Wilson, dramatic in gold glitter
on black, Mr. and Mrs. Harald Bowden,
the Ted Scorfields, the Conrad Horleys,
Dr. Grant Lindeman and his charming
wife, Mrs. Deke Coleman, and nearly all
the consular and diplomatic circle. Special
little mentions to Joan Kennedy’s orchid
organdie, Mrs. Max Afford’s demure
brown corduroy-velvet with the fur-
banded collar and Mrs. Douglas Dundas’s
little black hat with the Juliet-like pearl
trimming.
Eighty-three and definitely not out is
Mrs. Arthur Chauvel, whose flower-
paintings were exhibited at David Jones’s
Little Gallery this week. For these 30
paintings, begun on her 81st birthday,
Mrs. Chauvel used the reverse side of
masonite instead of canvas, giving them
a quaint, subdued effect. Born at
Tabulam (N.S.W.), into the famous
Chauvel family (she married her cousin),
this vital little lady began painting at the
age of six, later studying with Julian
Ashton and in Paris. She has done
patriotic work during three wars, begin-
ning with the Boer War. During World
War 11 she turned her hand to camouflage
work, its newness appealing to her ever-
youthful spirit. Congratulating her at her
exhibition were many members of Syd-
ney’s art circles, including Bill Dobell,
Douglas Pratt and Robert Emerson Curtis.
Another grand old lady in the news
this week is Mrs. O’Toole, of Manly. At
92, and looking good for another 20
years, she was guest-of-honor when the
committee of the spastic centre gave a
tea-party to their button-sellers. Mrs.
O’Toole raised £49 of the £11,580 col-
lected in one day for the spastic centre.
Arriving in Australia from England when
she was nine, Mrs. O’Toole is well-
known in the Maryborough ( Q .), Rock-
hampton (Q.) and Mudgee (N.S.W.) dis-
tricts, although Manly now claims her
with a good deal of pride. Her sturdy
frame, bright eyes and alert interest in
things are a rebuke to all those who be-
gin to quail when they see mere middle-
age coming up over the horizon.
Benita Harvey, who plays the part of
the young girl in *‘Orney Boy,” is not
disturbed by the emotional problems it
raises, for at 17 she is already quite an
experienced actress. Having played in
“A Bill of Divorcement” when she was
only 13, Benita has thought of little else
than acting from that time. She went to
Hobart with Yvonne Banvard’s produc-
tion of “Ah, Wilderness,” has acted in
radio plays and sampled film work in
“Prelude,” the story of Eileen Joyce’s
early life, and a documentary film on
child delinquency. “I made a very good
delinquent,” she says rather wryly.
Daughter of Joan Harvey, well known
in the radio world, Benita looks to this
medium as well as the stage and the
celluloid for her future career.
Dr. Ben Edye presided when the
English-Speaking Union entertained the
High Commissioner for Pakistan and the
Begum Haroon. The guests-of-honor,
with Miss Zeenat Haroon and Mr. and
Mrs. K. H. Rahman, looked like orchids
in an English garden, the women wearing
gowns and saris from the gorgeous East
and the High Commissioner wearing his
Jinnah cap of curly grey lamb (he keeps it
on throughout the evening, as the custom
is in Pakistan). The most entertaining
speech of the evening was made by Sir
Angus Gillan, head of the British
Council in Australia, who pointed out
that English had its pitfalls even for those
who share it as a common language.
When, for instance, an Englishman says
“I think you should take a spell,” he
means a turn at the work, not a rest, as
Australians do. If an American is told
by the telephone-girl (or switch-operator)
“You’re through,” he’s likely to exclaim
“Heck, I haven’t started yet!”
At the party Mrs. H. J. Brady was
majestic in a white dress and a fur-
collared long red coat. Mrs. Evans Jones
wore midnight-blue velvet. Mrs. Persia
Porter wore hyacinths with a soft-pink
dress. Miss Katharine Sleath, an inveter-
ate enthusiast for the E.-S.U., was present,
having just returned from Brisbane,
where she aroused much : interest in the
Union. Mrs. Vernon Coles wore all-over
pink lace, tulle, roses and a pink velvet
evening cap. The honorary secretary.
Miss Bertha Clarke, was in blue floral
georgette.
The N.S.W. Women’s Inter-Church
Council will hold a spring fete on Friday,
September 29, at the Baptist City Church
Hall in aid of the Wybalena Hostel
Appeal. This should be a good oppor-
tunity for those who look for weekend
produce, cakes and flowers.
Prom Melbourne
All who meet Elisabeth Bergner are
unanimous that if ever a woman dis-
covered the secret of eternal youth it is
she. Tiny in stature, with a waist to rival
any young girl, her ankles and feet are
slim and dainty. At the Press interview at
Menzies’ her fascinating personality im-
pressed itself on Presswomen. She is not
greatly interested in clothes—comfortable
slacks and loose-fitting jackets are worka-
day apparel, but at the reception she
dressed up. Her Hattie Carnegie black
faille frock was almost ankle-length, white
pique relieving the severe neckline and
deep hip-pockets highlighting the skirt,
Bergner wears her auburn hair drawn
back from the forehead and clubbed at
the back with a tortoiseshell comb.
Bryan Austin, of Myuna, Mortlake,
had the unusual privilege of a husband in
giving a party in honor of his wife’s 21st
birthday—Mrs. Austin was formerly
Jennifer Chirnside. Receiving the guests
with her husband, Mrs. Austin wore a
bouffant gown of azure-blue lace, made
with a deep square neckline, and with a
wide sash of deeper blue encircling the
waist. Adding lustre were pearls, a
diamond bracelet and matching brooch,
Before the dance Mrs. Austin’s parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Chirnside, of
Skipton, gave a family dinner-party at
Menzies’, Mrs. Chirnside’s royal-purple
crepe gown had ruby rhinestones and
silver-braid trimmings. Jennifer’s sister
Jane’s cinnamon-brown tulle frock had
silver sequin straps matching the belt.
Among the dancers were Kitty Synnot,
whose off-the-shoulder gown was of
pastel-pink satin, with pearl and gold
sequin-trimming outlining the bodice;
Penelope Giles, her pale-lilac chiffons
contrasted by a deep feather collar in
wine tonings ; Barbara Treacher, whose
black tulle was scattered with large gold
coin-spots ; Rosemary Turnbull, in a full-
skirted gown of a pervenche-blue satin ;
Joan Kinnear, who wore aqua-blue satin-
striped taffetas in the off-the-shoulder
style; Judith Sutcliffe, her white pique
gown having shoulder-straps and belt of
turquoise-blue velvet ribbon; Mrs. Peter
Fraser, her white crepes silver-striped;
Mrs. Geoffrey Fairbairn, in navy-and-
white-spotted tie-silk frock and short
bolero of rose embroidered in gold and
silver ; Mrs. Bertram Whiting, her soft-
blue satins having silver leaves appliqued
on the skirt; and Mrs. Pat Ryan, whose
buttercup taffeta off-the-shoulder gown
featured an overskirt of matching lace.
The fixed and amiable smiles of first-
nighters at the Princess were tributes to
iron self-control as beautiful gowns were
crushed in the arriving crowd to see
Elisabeth Bergner in “The Two Mrs.
Carrolls.” With knight Ben Fuller sat the
Lord Mayor, Cr. J. S. Disney, and his
wife, she wearing a beautiful gown of
flamingo-pink faille under a white Arctic-
fox cape, Mrs. Garnet Carroll’s gown
was of grey Chantilly lace, the pattern
outlined in glittering sequins; her ruby
velvet stole was lined with grey chiffon.
In her party was Mrs, T. T. Hollway,
whose mist-blue sheer gown was scattered
with iridescent embroidery. A rich red
velvet gown was the choice of Mrs.
Rupert Downes, who was accompanied
by her daughter Mrs. Jim Campbell, in
midnight-blue lace. Mrs. Philip Dare’s
striking gown of stiffened black tulle
featured a strapless top and bouffant
skirt. Mrs. Robert Lane was in black
velvet. Mrs. Frank Martin’s gown of
pale-mauve chiffon had a finely-pleated
skirt. Over amber-toned satins Mrs.
Harold Charlwood wore a gold-embossed
Chinese mandarin coat. Cyclamen
chiffon embroidered in deep-purple
sequins was the choice of Mrs. P. J.
Lennon. The tulip bodice of Pat
Christie’s scarlet faille gown was heavily
embroidered in pearls and gold thread.
Angela Cass’s oyster-grey brocade gown
was delicately patterned, Mrs. Peter
Condon favored white chiffon. Mrs.
Morris Sallmann’s wide-skirted black
taffeta coat had white roses outlining the
collar; her gown was of black lace and
tulle.
At the conclusion of the show Elisabeth
Bergner was whisked off to a party at the
South Yarra home of the Garnet
Carrolls. Later she supped at Claridge’s
with a small party which included her
husband, Dr. Paul Czinner, Nina Latta,
who is in the cast of “The Two Mrs.
Carrolls,” and her husband. The star
wore a soft-beech brown velvet frock,
whilst Nina Latta was in black. Dancers
at Claridge’s who had come on from the
first-night included Mrs. Walter Ebstein,
who teamed a white Alen?on lace top and
black crepe skirt; Mrs. Athol Shmith,
scarlet velvet flattering her streamlined
figure; Mrs. Frank Watts, wearing
orchid-pink taffeta spotted in mauve
chenille; Mrs. Ron Decker, her pink
slipper-satin gown pearl-embroidered;
Jill Daveron, in finely-pleated shimmer-
ing silk’s of mushroom-pink; Gloria
*Ladd, wearing a froth of pastel-pink
stiffened lace; and Beth Homberg, wear-
ing strapless off-white crepe.
Reta Findlay, who has for some time
beefi an associate-director of the fashion
house of Georges, has now been made
a full director, and she will leave shortly
for England as the firm’s representative
overseas.
Starred for spring are shoes in new
shades —pewter-grey, to be worn with
grey, leaf-green, all the blues and white.
Bronze-green, junior-navy, red and white
shoes will add gaiety to the ensemble.
Gloves will be in muted tones; soft
suedes in pink-lilac, pale-yellow, blue and
lime-green. Small-cuffed “shorties” for
very short or very long sleeves, elbow-
length for the “in-between” sleeve. Often
the gloves will have the added attraction
of embroidered flowers, and for cocktail-
parties and dances there are gloves of
velvet. Late-day clothes feature the use
of beautiful stiff fabrics. Frocks are
fashioned of slipper-satin, tie-silk, moire
and taffeta, in dark neutral colors with
metallic greys heading the list. Collars
will frame the face, and fichu drapery
will stand up around the shoulders.
Skirts are slimmer in short dresses, subtly
draped and pleated. Long dresses still
feature the bustle and will have spreading
skirts. The sheath dress is often covered
with an apron skirt of layers of tulle.
Floating panels fall in uneven lengths,
and give illusion of width to narrow
skirts. Race-clothes will include suits of
white shantung or stiff silk. Dresses in
these materials will have matching jackets
with black accessories. The coat-dress is
tailored, collarless and has buttons from
neck to hem, with a black patent-leather
belt. The sleeves are set into a dropped
shoulder-yoke at the back. At night
white or black gowns are of chiffon,
organza, lace and faille.
Sydney artist Jean Isherwood, many of
whose paintings are on view at Prince’s
Gallery in Collins-street, was trained at
the East Sydney Technical College and at
the Royal Arts Society’s School. Mrs.
F. W. Thriqg, in black frock, matching
jacket and befeathered winter-white felt
hat, did the honors on opening day. The
artist showed her eye for color in con-
trasting a pale-lilac felt hat with a
black ensemble. Among admirers of the
artist’s work were Mrs. O. J. Nilsen,
whose black frock had a dove-grey yoke
and was worn with a cocq-feather-
trimmed hat; Mrs. Harold Wootton, in
pale-beige coat and London-tan felt hat
which flew pale-primrose feathers; Mrs.
Arthur Prince, who set off her junior-
navy jacket-suit with a red-and-white
brim on her junior-navy straw hat; and
Mrs. Tom Sanders, in grey-and-white-
check suit and black hat. •
Among the new spring hats given an
outing at Moonee Valley first favorite was
the straw-boater, which suits the short
hair-do, and with the chin face-veil can
be flattering. In the ensemble sphere
junior-navy moved up into the place
formerly occupied by grey. Flowers
were worn in odd places: at the waist,
clipped on handbags, twisted in a scarf
or slipped sideways through a slit in the
collar. Red and white carnations are worn
on junior-navy; primroses on brown or
natural tones. Straw bags match straw
hats. Yvonne Whittam, just back from
overseas, wore a snuff-brown angora-
pleated frock, and her natural-straw hat
with its fluted brim and black quill was
matched by a straw bag, a miniature
hold-all. The jacket of Mrs. W. H. Hors-
fall’s suit of junior-navy facecloth had a
velvet collar and one large box-pleat at
the back of the waist; clipped navy
ostrich-feathers finished her junior-navy
hat. Mrs. Graham Nathan’s wide-
brimmed felt hat matched her junior-
navy suit. Mrs. W. L. Russell Clarke s
suit was grey. A white Panama-boater
with a scarf-finish of junior-navy topped
Betty Jackson’s grey suit,


“Keep in
Good ”
%Aci\*h
BRANDY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Now borrowing bodies instead of
boodle, Charlie Ronald Banfield, knight
Edmund Herring’s new 2 i./c., was news-
editor of Melbourne “Argus” when he
joined the journalistic army of the
Ministry of Information in 1939. After
a few months there he took on directing
the Commonwealth Loans Organisation,
to such drawing effect that as early as
1940, in two months’ campaigning cover-
ing 20,000 miles of air-, road- and train-
travel, he painlessly extracted £35 million
from Australian pockets. His bag since
has reached astronomical figures. Sixty,
he hails from Subiaco (W.A.).
The news that the British Government
is making a film of the life of William
Friese-Greene, inventor of the cinemato-
graph, awoke memories for Matthew
Farmer King, 78-year-old secretary of the
British Empire Union in Sydney. For
King and Friese-Greene were in partner-
ship at Brighton (Eng.) in 1904-06, when
they tried unsuccessfully to develop
color-photography. After the project
failed King came to Sydney, to be suc-
cessively journalist on the old “Daily
Telegraph,” Parliamentary secretary to
William Scott Fell, M.L.A. and secretary
of the British Empire Union, where he’s
still in office, and editing the “Empire
Patriot.” Making light of age, King has
written to England and offered to help
produce the film about his old associate,
who made nothing from his invention.
It was not until a few years before his
death in 1921 that the world acknow-
ledged Friese-Greene’s discovery, and
gave him the credit that had formerly
gone to Edison. The £250,000 film of
Friese-Greene’s life, made, ironically, in
the technicolor process he himself tried to
develop, will be part of next year’s
Festival of Britain.
Relieving the Rev. Norman Blow
(killed in the Amana crash) as Dean of
Newcastle, Archdeacon W, A. Hardie, at
present warden of St. John’s University
College in Brisbane, The new man was
born in Scotland 45 years ago, came to
Australia at 15, gained first-class honors
in mental and moral philosophy at
Queensland University, took his M.A.
degree there and later his Bachelorship
of Divinity in Melbourne. A first-class
speaker who looks like a Rugby forward.
•“Macnell”; Max Joshua Clark,
R.A.N., destroyer-man, sewed on his
fourth (captain’s) ring last week. Son of
a Tasmanian medico, he’s had 24 years
in uniform, and was in command of the
valiant Yarra when she landed practice
ammo for yellow-nosed armor-piercing
in 1939. The next year he shifted to
destroyer Nizam, one of the famed
flotilla of N-boats manned by Australians,
and fought her 4.7’s for three years
through the Mediterranean. Nizam started
early—with a German bombing while on
acceptance trials. Then Clark took her
in and out of the Crete evacuation, bom-
barded Scarpanto airfield, was missed by
a torpedo which ran under her bilges,
fought off continuous air attacks and
won the D.S.C. Near Tobruk, on the
spud-run, she was rattled by near-misses,
and, convoying to Malta, was a target for
the Italian Battle Squadron, when her
jam-tin sides were straddled three times
by 15in. shells. Followed a pre-Jap
job screening carrier Indomitable to the
N.E.1., when, off Java, Hurricanes Mark
II for the first time flew off a carrier at
sea. On the next trip out Singapore had
fallen, so Indomitable’s Hurricanes were
flown off to Colombo —in nice time to
mix it with the surprised minions of the
first Jap air-raid. Back in the Mediter-
ranean, Clark "was keeping station close
astern of Nestor in a Malta convoy when
a stick of heavies lifted Nestor half her
draught out of the water. She went down
next day. After screening the Madagas-
car invasion force, when he blew a Vichy
vessel to the bottom, Clark took over
the Tribal boat Warramunga in 1944.
Warramunga by then was as battle-wise
as her new driver, and under him did
yeoman service bombarding Leyte, Lin-
gayen, Subic Bay and (with particularly
fine gunnery) covering the Ninth Divi-
sion’s landing at Tarakan. Clark was
exercising at sea with Bataan when the
surrender came through; he saw it
signed in Tokyo Bay and stayed in Japan
as N.0.1.C., Kure, and naval commander
of 8.C.0.F, He’s 44.
Here is Brisbaneite Clifford Isles, boss
of the city’s big real-estate firm of Isles,
Love and Co. His father was J. T. Isles,
one of the best-known commercial men
in Brisbane ; an outstanding civic worker
who had to his credit a large share in the
CLIFFORD ISLES, of Brisbane.
establishment of the Montrose Home for
crippled children. Starting with the firm
in 1911, Clifford took over the manage-
ment on the death of his father, in 1934.
Old Digger captain, wounded and in-
valided out, at 56 he has succeeded his
father well, with a fellowship and past-
presidency of the Commonwealth In-
stitute of Valuers and directorship of
four sizeable Queensland concerns so far
in his bqsiness-bag. J.T. was president of
Brisbane Rotary ; his son is its Sergeant-
at-Arms.
Passed on in Melbourne, 77, that
extraordinary churchman Rev. Walter
Ernest Dexter, claimed to be the first
padre to land on Gallipoli and Australia’s
most decorated chaplain. His adventures
began when he stowed-away from Eng-
land to America, where he worked as a
liftman. When Oom Paul threw his hat
in, the liftman crossed to S. Africa, in a
trooper this time, and left there D.C.M.
Later he got his master’s ticket and
earned a sizeable screw as skipper of a
trading schooner; then he drew £3 a
week as a missionary in Australia, living
in a tent. He won D.S.O. on Gallipoli
and M.C. in France, and had five sons
serving in the recent war. He had the
further remarkable record of ministering
three Footscray churches at the same time.
He retained his love for the sea, wrote a
book about his adventures thereon, and
was president of the Victorian Ship
Lovers’ Society. One of his sons is
second-mate of the Queen Mary.
Grounding himself to take on the
job of Director of Safety for T.A.A.,
Captain Aubrey Koch, after 17,000 ad-
venturous hours air-borne, covering over
two-and-a-half million miles, A pioneer
in New Guinea flying, he was with
Qantas in War 11, shuttling flying-boats
between Sydney, India and Malaya. The
laps were in Java when he transferred to
the famed long-range hop between
Fremantle and Ceylon; seven Zeros
“hopped” him over the Timor Sea and
shot-down his unarmed boat in flames
four miles from Timor. Koch somehow
swam the four miles to the beach, and
lay and crawled there for five days with
two bullet-wounds and a broken leg
before he was picked up. His next fall
in the drink entailed a 19-mile swim
against a strong current off Moresby, tow-
ing a non-swimmer of his crew. They
were picked up by a lakatoi. Now 45,
Koch has had 25 years’ accident-free
flying, very apt for his new job.
Athel H, Lewis, who has closed his
account in London at 59, left in 1937 to
take over the London managership of the
Commonwealth Bank. An Australian of
varied interests, he was bom in Victoria,
educated in Launceston, had his first job
in a Speck tin-mine, recrossed Bass
Strait to become LL.M, at Melbourne
University, wrote for the “Argus” while
studying law, joined-up for the Kaiser's
war in the 31st Battery and was
appointed courts-martial officer on
Monash’s staff. On demobilisation he was
admitted to the Bar, Then he settled
down as the bank’s solicitor, and was
assistant-manager in Melbourne till
Robert Gibson picked him for secretary.
Athel’s three sons all got into the later
war —Owen, the eldest, joined the A.I.F.
after completing an engineering
course at Cambridge; lan chose the
R.A.F. ; and Graeme, after achieving the
unusual distinction for an Australian of
becoming captain of St. Paul’s School,
London, also joined the R.A.F. Light-
weight in appearance, but certainly not
in intellect, Athel was widely-re-
spected in banking circles here and in
England;
i Inherited the telephone headache in the
northern State, M. Bensley, new engineer-
ing head of Queensland’s P.M.G. Depart-
ment. Old Digger, trained for a while
in the British Post Office, Bensley has a
£4 million programme to show what he
can do with telephone, telegraph and
radio plant. Starting a cadet, he’s held
most posts in the engineering branch, and
is the only Queenslander to rise from
bottom to top of it.
Westralia’s University gets something
unusual in the way of lecturers in eco-
nomics—Arnold Cook, 8.A., from the
same seminary, and Hackett Scholarship
winner of two years’ study at the London
School of Economics. Nothing extra-
ordinary in that —except that Cook is
blind. His eyes in London’s crowded
streets were Dreena, a black Labrador
retriever from the special training-farm
in Exeter (Eng.). She came back with
Cook, thus being the first guide-dog to
sniff at Australia. Cook would like many
more to follow.
Gyorgy Sandor, the Hungarian-born
American pianist now touring Australia
under A.B.C. auspices, was a student of
his compatriot-composer Bela Bartok. In
his delineation of the great classical
works Sander’s virtuosity possesses only
a modicum of the passionate quality ; but
when he fastens on to the folk-music of
his mentor he seems a different being,
giving it the “works” with great verve.
After making his debut at 18 in his native
Budapest he toured Europe until he was
SANDOR.
25. Then, in 1939, he made his Ameri-
can debut at Carnegie Hall, Deciding
that he’d “had” the Mad Continent, he
adopted American citizenship, as an
earnest of which he served in Uncle
Sam’s signal corps during World War 11.
An executant whose technical equipment
and extensive repertoire give him high
ranking among the world’s artists of the
keyboard, Sandor can afford to dispense
with all tricks and cheap mannerisms.
“E.H.W.”: Passed on in Brisbane,
Major “Paddy” Murray, a Marlborough
College (Eng.) man widely-known among
Australian flight-pioneers. Flying first
at Brooklands in a Bleriot monoplane in
1912, he was a wizard with engines, which
resulted in his seconding from the R.F.C.
in War I to become one of the first seven
test-pilots with the Imperial Air Ministry.
In all, he tested 800 planes comprising 74
types developed in that war. At the
cease-fire he was appointed 2 i/c, Point
Cook, lecturing in company with P. G.
Taylor and Major MacNamara, V.C.
Originator of the idea of an all-
Australian aerial service, Murray left the
R. to help form a Melbourne com-
pany, Aerial Services, Ltd., to fly pas-
sengers and mails between capital cities.
Though much locating and surveying was
done, the project fell through, mainly be-
cause of Governmental disbelief that
aerial transport of mails was a safe and
feasible proposition! Then Murray took
to his other love, motoring, rode with
“Wizard” Smith on several of his record-
breaking runs, and became editor of the
motoring-page of the “Daily Telegraph
Pictorial.” Keen sailer as well, he sailed
his ketch Daydream to the Reef in 1932
to open West Molle Island to tourists, re-
naming it Daydream Island, by which it
is still generally known. War II found
his Reef know-how being utilised by
the R.A.N. and Security Service in
Townsville. He was 55 at the end.
A dramatic call for a rare type of blood
was made recently from London to the
Empire, to save the life of a patient in
St. George’s hospital; there being one
only known supplier in the U.K. A.
Hall, of Brighton (Vic.), was found to be
a member of the select group, but, being
Victoria’s record blood-donor, he had
just given blood when the call came.
Hall didn’t mind, however, and in a few'
days supplied it. After a donating
he goes straight back to his job at the
gas-works ; he says the drawing-off leaves
him feeling refreshed rather than de-
pleted, He has contributed 55 pints of
his vital fluid to the Red Cross, and six
pints to different sets of newly-born
twins since 1933.
“E.D.8.”: For the sake of certain
shades I must correct that contributor’s
surmise (B. 23/8/’5O) that Brian Hone,
new head of Melbourne Grammar, is the
only cricketer to have made a double
century in the annual frenzy between
Adelaide’s St. Peter’s and Prince Alfred.
As an old (1889) St. Peter’s player, I re-
call the flashing blades of two Prince
Alfred men who later became famous—
Joe Darling and Clem Hill. Joe made
250 and Clem notched 365. Year, about
1890.
Into the Silence:
In Adelaide, at 62, Clive Melville Hambidge,
S. Australia’s Surveyor-General since 1938.
Joining the State Survey Department at 19 as
a cadet, in a year he was head-cadet; two
years later assistant-surveyor; and at 23 got
his surveyor’s licence. Appointment to the
Land Board came in 1926, deputy-chairmanship
of the board 10 years later. In the meantime
he had become a member of the Council of
the Commonwealth Institute of Valuers and
chairman of the Pastoral Board. One-time
president of S.A. Royal Geographical Society, he
was as widely-known in his State as his survey-
ing activities —and that was just about all
through it.
At 59, in Sydney, George Millar, who, born
in Scotland and schooled at Sydney High,
took on school-teaching, left it to land on
Gallipoli and returned to become a chartered
accountant. But he was better known and
respected among thousands of surfmen as
honorary secretary to the Surf Life-Saving
Association of Australia, to which he gave over
25 years’ devoted service.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Margaret Linwood,
claimed, at 107, to be the oldest woman in
Victoria. Born in London, she came to Aus-
tralia in the Troubador 100 years ago.
At 78, in Launceston, Tasman Shields, one
of the Speck’s leading barristers, who practised
from 1894 till retirement in 1945. An M.L.C.
from 1915-36, with A. G. Ogilvie he prepared
the “Case for Tasmania” in 1926. He was
made C.M.G. in 1931 and K.C. in 1938.
Also in Launceston, Mrs. Isabella Hodgson,
a cousin of Tasman Shields and heroine of
an attack by blacks on the Braeside station
at Pilbarra (W.A.), in 1899. A doctor was
fatally speared and her husband severely
wounded. She slipped off and went 80 miles
to Marble Bar for aid, accompanied only by
a gin, and giving birth to a son on the way.


The Daik of the moon
By OLAF
RUHEN
TOMBO’S corpse was the first that
Eve Maybrick had seen; but it was
not that of itself which shocked her
so deeply. It was the agony of the
face, lined and drawn and strangely
swollen under the chin, the eyes wide
and staring in an excess of disbelief and
terror.
The limbs were not at all discomposed,
except as the villagers had put them, with
the arms folded, the knees drawn up on
the bamboo stretcher, for Tombo had
been a long time dying. He had been
six days dying, six days in which his
death was written; but the gaunt waste
that had been Tombo’s fine and well-
developed body less than a week before
shocked her, too.
She turned to her companion while the
wailing women watched her from the
corners of their weeping eyes, their heads
bent over their nursing children, their
hands touching the corpse, as many as
could manage.
“Well, that’s what witchcraft can do,”
Sommers said, “Let’s get out of here.”
They passed by the men, weeping a
little apart from the women, and covering
their greased bodies with the white wood-
ashes from the cooking-fires in token of
their mourning, and walked over towards
the parsonage.
MAYBRICK was waiting on the
veranda, his puny body covered
completely in the heat with long khaki
trousers and a white shirt done up at
collar and cuffs.
The two men looked like members of
alien races—Sommers tali, heavy for his
height, soldier-straight, unshaved yet
unable even to stand without a mental
swagger; Maybrick delicate and tender-
fleshed, a small man with a high-domed
forehead, chubby cheeks; a man per-
sonable enough and friendly, but a pale
wraith of a messenger to carry the word
of God into the wild hills.
Maybrick said “Hello, Mr. Sommers.
We’ve seen nothing of you for months.
You’ve been seeing about your houseboy
—very sad. We did what we could, but
it no effect. A most mysterious thing.
The people say witchcraft. Everything is
witchcraft. Sanguma, sanguma, they say.
I thought I had a convert in your Tombo.
I thought he had a true belief, but he
died. He’s been here a week; and I
couldn’t do anything. He came last
Wednesday.”
“They kill themselves,” Sommers said.
“Yes; well, it’s nearly a week ago he
came in. I spoke to him, and it was
just as if he couldn’t hear me. He seemed
to be trying to say something, but he
couldn’t talk. He just got worse and
worse, and yesterday he died. I thought
you might have come over earlier. I
thought you might know what to do.”
“Nothing you can do,” said Sommers.
“These coons kill themselves. I thought
Tombo was safe. He’s from Aitape, and
I thought he wouldn’t know the local
conventions yet. But they die just the
same. Just scare themselves to death.”
Eve shuddered, remembering the
vacuous stare that still mirrored the
utmost in horror in the dead man’s face.
“What was he doing to walk in the
dark of the moon?” she asked.
“Do you think that had anything to
do with it?” Sommers countered. “As a
matter of fact he was doing something
for me. I sent him on a message. I
could feel a bit guilty, I suppose. If it
were witchcraft he died of.”
* 4 l T’S the same story they told us when
*■ we. came,” Eve said. “They told us
no one could walk in the dark of the
moon. And on the night of the new
moon. They said that sanguma would
get anyone who did. They said he would
return to the village on the next night
but he wouldn’t talk. That he would be
tired but couldn’t sleep. That he would
have things to say but couldn’t talk. He
would be hungry and couldn’t eat; and
he would seek comfort and couldn’t
listen. And that he would die within a
week. That’s exactly what they told us.
And that’s exactly what Tombo did. It
was horrible.”
“Oh, well ...” Sommers said. But
Eve cut in again quickly. Normally she
didn’t talk much. This was a flood to
drown her feelings.
“I saw him the first day when he came
in the late afternoon,” she said. “He
was walking like a man in a trance. He
didn’t take any notice of anything, but
once or twice he would walk up to some
of the mem They were in groups you
know; standing round; and everyone
was very silent. He would shake his head
from side to side, and his eyes were star-
ing, and he would say nothing. The men
would watch him and say nothing.
“And I was watching once when he
stooped and put an arm round young
Ratu, Ratu is Joanna’s child. He’s about
three. And Ratu screamed and ran. And
Tombo stayed there, just the way he was
with his arm outstretched, and he looked
puzzled and hoijified and worn out all at
once. He looked terrible. But his body
was fit and well. He was drawn about
the face, but that corpse doesn’t even
look like him. And that was only five-
six days ago.”
“He was a fine build of a man,”
Sommers said. “X brought him arid his
wife from Aitape. It’s not my area, of
course, but I signed him up while I was
there. It pays to have a boy from out-
side. And I thought he would be safe
from this sort of thing. He doesn’t know
the local conventions. But just the same
he died of them.”
A MAID came out with a tray of tea-
things, her roly-poly brown face
beaming above a spotless white Mother
Hubbard that was pushed most absurdly
out of shape by her strong and well-
formed breasts.
Eve busied herself with a small cane
table, and Sommers watched her. He
was a lusty man; and Eve satisfied his
eye. Her red-brown hair, her green eyes,
pale skin, trim figure were appetisers to
his hunger, and her movements were
rhythmic, wasting no effort. She caught
his look and flushed, but Sommers didn’t
turn away. There was nothing sensitive
about him.
He excused himself after a while, and
despite protests from Maybrick, readied
himself for the long walk back to his
house.
Maybrick sounded overenthusiastic
with, his invitations to stay the night, Eve
thought. She supported him in them only
to the extent that politeness demanded,
hoping fervently that Sommers wouldn’t
accept; and also that his infrequent visits
would never coincide with her husband’s
self-imposed patrols which took him
away sometimes for a week or more.
But Maybrick’s self-reliance, never
firmly founded, had received a jolt from
the outbreak of witchcraft in the village
which he thought he had made a little
stronghold of. Methodism. He craved
male companionship, subconsciously
seeking a lead he could follow.
Near all his tiny flock were paying
their pagan homage to the corpse and its
destroyer, swept at a blow from their
newer religious solace, of which the
visible symbol was the great kunai-grass
s bam of a church that Maybrick had
erected: a barn too ambitious for the
materials of its making, for it lurched
drunkenly now by the side of the village
road.
“£ome again soon, Mr. Sommers,”
Maybrick called as his visitor opened the
picket-gate. “And stay a while. The
house is yours at any time.”
Sommers waved a farewell with his
stick, and set out along the path, striding
heel-and-toe like a city hiker in the fresh-
ness of early morning.
IT was dark when he reached his own
* house, but the lamps were lit. Tombo’s
wife, a pretty little dark girl, squatted on
the floor by an inner door, dealing a
tittered pack of cards to two youngsters.
Unlike Maybrick’s servants, she wore only
a lap-lap; and her bared breasts were
pleasant to look at. She got up hurriedly
as Sommers came in, and went out to
the kitchen. The two boys stayed on the
floor.
She came out almost immediately with
a bottle of rum, a jug of water and a tray
of ice. Sommers mixed himself a drink
and. took it out on the veranda.
The house lay at the top of his domain,
a section of steeply-sloping hillside.
Sommers had bought it from the natives
at the cost of two years’ time and in-
finite patience in negotiation.
Some day he planned a tea plantation.
In the meantime he had the house, and
he supported himself by recruiting-trips
amongst the natives. He had several
ways of handling natives. They feared
him for one thing. And the headmen
found it politic to keep in with him. So
he did a steady trade in labor for the
plantations, and made sufficient money
for his wants.
The tea plantation could wait. It
needed capital for drying-sheds and
packaging and shipping equipment; but
some day it would be a winner.
He watched the hillside under the
young moon, deliberately turning his
thoughts towards tea. But in spite of
himself they turned towards the
missionary’s wife.
“Beba,” he called; and a voice
answered from the two huts clustered
against the thin mountain bush at the
edge of the clearing.
“Yes, master. Coming, master.”
The boy hurried to the veranda,
“Come here,” Sommers said. And
waited till the boy mounted the steps and
stood behind his chair.
“You’ve got a lot of friends along at
the village, Beba,” Sommers said, speak-
ing a fluent pidgin in the fast native
fashion. “Suppose you waited for some-
thing you wanted to know. Now a friend
with a flute or a drum could let you
know —not a big drum that would tell
everyone, A little drum; that no one
else would know the meaning of.
Right?”
“Yes, master,” Beba said.
“Well, suppose the missionary goes
away for a walkabout—a long walk-
about, two, three days, a week; I’d like
to know. You must tell me, without fail.
But don’t stay at the village yourself—l
want you here. You find a friend in the
village to let me know. Understand?”
“Yes, master.”
“Now this isn’t a thing for talking
about. I want no talk in the village. And
I want no talk here. Especially no talk
to Kardu. Not now or after. Other-
wise ...” He lifted up his fist in front
of his face and clenched it. Beba just
said: “Yes, master,” again, in a matter-
of-fact way, and waited.
“That’s all,” said Sommers. “Now
get.”
HE watched Beba back to his hut and
raised his voice again.
“Kardu.”
After a moment the little dark girl was
at his side, silently.
He looked at her keenly. “You’re still
playing ‘Lucky’?”
“Yes, master.”
“Get me some more ice, and then get
to bed. I’ll be in when the moon goes
down.”
Kardu turned without a word, and
without a change of expression.
Sommers knew that he would find her
lying awake on the floor beneath his bed,
waiting for his next call. She was very
amenable, and she put on none of the
airs most native girls gave themselves
when they were elevated to the position
of a white man’s mistress.
But for the first time since he had
stolen her from his house-boy he could
find no interest in Kardu that night. She
had intrigued him in the past to the point
where he had sent Tombo off on a fruit-
less errand —as it happened, to his death—
but that part of it was purely accidental.
And he had been firm about allowing that
death to play no part at all in his con-
tinuing relations with the girl.
Quite suddenly now, within a week, he
had lost all interest in her. It was the
white woman. He wanted her; and he
would do a lot to get her.
BEBA brought him no message in the
days that followed, and his desire
was growing mightily. • Sommers called
a couple of times at the village, and
fancied he was making progress. May-
brick liked him —that was obvious. And
Eve seemed to be glad of his additional
company.
He thought the time to strike was soon.
In the meantime his temper was shorten-
ing, and the little Kardu took the brunt
of it uncomplainingly.
It was three weeks before he found
Beba by his chair one night. He had
heard nothing. No sound of drums or
flute. But Beba was there.
“Master?”
“What is it?”
“The drums talked, master. The parson
has gone. He has gone up the valley and
will be gone tomorrow and the next day.
Perhaps half a day more; perhaps not.”
“Right,” said Sommers. “Now get
out.”
He got up quickly and went into the
house. He picked up his revolver-belt
and a flashlight; and came out strapping
the belt round his waist. Beba was still
by the steps.
“Master?”
“Something else?”
“Master, the moon is dark again. This
is the first night of the dark of the moon.”
It was unexpected, and Sommers
hesitated. But only for a moment.
“I’ve got eyes in my head,” he said.
“Now go, if you haven’t anything else
to say.”
Beba walked across to the huts without
a word, and Sommers cut down into the
track and plunged into the thick gloom
of the bush. He knew the trail, but he
used the flashlight fairly constantly. He
was ten minutes from the clearing where
the house stood when he heard two clear
notes of a flute. The sound seemed to
come from the clearing; and from some-
where it was answered. Sommers stood
stock-still a moment, unreasonably angry
that anyone should keep a check on his
movements —if the two notes represented
a message, as seemed likely. He hadn t
heard any flute before, and there must
have been a purpose in the call and the
answer. But he had no desire to retrace
his steps up the steep hill, and alter a
moment he went on.
('Continued on page 32.)


a LESSON FOR TWO
By MACNELL
THE fact that he had often thought
about the Old Man conking out
was, of course, no indication of his
feelings for him ; it was just that
that was the dream of all first-lieutenants
of destroyer, sloop, frigate and corvette,
or of any craft where the captain’s in-
capacitation would elevate them to
command.
That Lieutenant-Commander “Bollard-
head” Brewster, R.A.N. Reserve (Sea-
going), was doing his best to make his
first-lieutenant’s dream come true could
not be denied. It was neither the hour
nor the day to force a quarrel nor the
season for exertions more than needs
be; and, in that place, least of all was
it wisdom for a stout elderly gentleman,
though clad in nothing more restrictive
than sandals, a pair of khaki shorts and
a Rangoon coolie’s hat, to challenge the
weather by working himself into a state
of such unbridled vehemence.
But then old Bollardhead had reason
to explode. A corvette
(especially when com-
manded by an old China
Rivers pilot who’d for-
gotten, or 'thought he’d for-
gotten, more about ship-
handling than any college-
bred naval officer could ever
know) could spin her tight
little length on a Straits
dollar-piece; but it was altogether too
much to ask to haul her bow off twenty
degrees in twenty feet —and that’s all the
bilge-bo welled skipper of the junk
crossing her bows in sublime ignorance
of Rules of the Road allowed her.
Bollardhead bounced and bellowed,
his vulturine head thrust through a bridge
window, punctuating his description of
the offender with thumps of a quite
needless megaphone against the paint-
work below him.
“You bloody great grinning yellow
joss-juggler!” His adjectival ammunition
shot across the fo’c’sle, also grinning with
unconcealed appreciation. “Cross my
hows, would you?” He pulled his head
in, stumped to the port side of the bridge
and bellowed down at the odoriferous
length of junk now sliding down the
ship’s side. “I’ll remember you, you
slit-eyed scow. Next time I’ll bury me
bow in your stinking bilges!”
And, as the crate-cluttered poop
swept past below him, he hurled his
battered megaphone at the bland figure
manning it. The trumpet bounced at the
Chinaman’s feet. He bent gravely, picked
it up, examined its dents, and as gravely
tossed it over the side.
Luckily for Bollardhead’s arteries, he
had already stepped back to the binnacle,
wiping his running face with an engine-
room sweat rag, and leaving it on his
head, so that his bare skull was festooned
with a skein of cotton-threads.
“Whew!” he puffed. “What a stench!
There’s no need for those bilge barges
to carry lights.” He snatched at the
sweat-rag, towelled his uppers again,
eased his breathing down to a canter and
grunted over his shoulder to the first-
lieutenant,
“Bring her back on course, Number
One.”
With the grunt and the order H.M.A.
Corvette J. 284, heading seawards down
Singapore Roads, returned to normalcy.
BOLLARDHEAD’S was a happy
ship; most corvettes are. There is
no space for spit-and-polish cruiser dis-
cipline in a craft where all hands lined
up on the upper deck would just about
reach from stem to stern and back again.
Not that J. 284 was slack in performance.
But Bollardhead ruled by the force of
his experience; King’s Rules and
Admiralty Instructions stood, nice and
green and clean, with the rest of the sail-
ing-directions and tide-tables that
shrugged their ragged shoulders from the
tiny book-case in his cabin.
He hated “dress of the day” of naval
routine. Ashore, where senior officers
ruled, he consented to the peaked "cap
and brass buttons of H.M. uniform, and
wore it with the coy self-consciousness of
a bulldog in a monogrammed coat. But
afloat, master, if not of his fate, then of
all that stood between the anchors
forrard and the depth-charges aft, he
dressed according to weather. His crew
followed suit; the only things to dis-
tinguish J. 284 as a man-of-war were her
armament, her low-slung lines and the
invariably correct naval dress of her
young, keen and officers’-school-trained
first - lieutenant. But Bollardhead’s
leniency paid dividends; once alongside,
under the telescopic eyes of the Fleet,
J.2B4’s hands would as soon have
appeared out of the dress of the day as
they would have called Bollardhead that
to his weather-burned face.
All this Number One knew, at the
same time as he disapproved of the Old
Man’s personal laxness in dress. What,
you might ask, was wrong with shorts
and sandals if their wearer could handle
his ship like a skiff and had his orders
cheerfully obeyed on the run? But then
Number One’s first ship had been a
cruiser, where you undressed for a bath
and that’s about all.
Standing behind old Bollardhead
squatted on his high-legged wooden stool
at the fore-end of the bridge, Number
One half-closed his eyes
against the glare of the
westering sun and pondered,
as he did every other wak-
ing moment, on how he’d
run this ship. All hands on
the bridge, for instance,
that sacrosanct of holies,
would be properly dressed.
And at meals in the ward-
room ; he’d have that jackstroppish young
sub. sit down with his shirt on. He
glanced up and caught the Old Man
squinting good-humoredly back at him
over his right shoulder, his ire gone with
the junk.
“What’s up, Number One? You look
as if you’ve got all the weight on your
back.”
The old scoundrel! Could he read a
man’s mind like he read the whorls of
the Yangtse?
“Oh, I was just thinking,” Number
One returned, somewhat obviously. He
walked over. “I think the oerlikon crews
could have some drill before sunset, sir.
Particularly in this country,”
Bollardhead jerked kis stool down onto
its other two legs and stretched his
barrelled brevity.
“Ah, don’t worry about those lads.
Ship-handling, Number One —that’s the
thing to beat these Zeros. Swing her in
under him and where is he? Hung on a
sky-hook, for all the good he can do.
That’s what they should teach you young
shiners. Ship-handling. Any bludger
can point a gun.”
“Yes, sir. But there’s such things as
aim-off, and misfires”
“Such things as aim-off,” mimicked
Bollardhead. “What the hell’s the good
of ‘aim -off.' There’s only one aim of a
seaman —seamanship. And what’s the
most important part of seamanship?
Ship-handling. You and your blasted
‘aim-offs’! If you want to exercise the
watch, put ’em on rope-splicing. That’s
useful.”
Number One breathed deeply.
“Yes, sir. Bosun’s mate. Pipe ‘guns’-
crews secure and fall out.’ ”
HE turned back and saw the Old Man
grinning at him ; and his annoyance
vanished at once. That grin got right in-
side you. It opened a crescent of humor,
sympathetic, understanding and malice-
melting, clean athwart his face, wrinkling
it like a leathery accordion and showing
his teeth, gleaming white as sugar in the
mahogany of it.
Number One grinned back, and forgot
his guns in the business of conning the
ship. He was a long-legged, coltish young
fellow, continually pulling at the loose
skin of his throat with his thumb and
four fingers. He had had three years at
sea, and was now going through a most
important phase of his experience—but
lacked, as yet, the experience to realise
it. He had gone from base to a cruiser,
in which he was more fortunate than
those of his classmates who had landed
directly in a small ship, where discipline
is naturally more lax.
He could afford to relax a bit now —
he knew the strictures of discipline, and
could return to them, if necessary, with
little heartburning. But the officer who
went vice-versa, from corvette to cruiser,
was in for the shock of his young life.
What Number One did not appreciate,
nor would appreciate for years to come,
was the widening, tolerant outlook on
men-handling which the close-quartered
life of his corvette time was giving him.
Till now it had not influenced him much ;
that other ingraining of the tightly-regu-
lated ,big ship would take time to mellow
into the casual efficiency which was the
hallmark of a good small-ship man.
When it did, he would retain its benefit
in a judgment, power of command and
approachableness which would go with
him wherever and in whatever ships he
served.
His present craft was bound on patrol,
mainly anti-submarine, for in those early
days, with Singapore threatened but not
yet taken, she carried no searching radar
to warn of approaching aircraft. Against
submarines, of course, with her asdic and
nests of depth-charges aft, she was
deadly ; against aircraft she had little but
her manoeuvrability to protect her. The
single four-inch breech-loader on the
fo’c’sle could elevate only to about
thirty degrees, and carried neither time-
fused ammunition nor the complicated
fire-control equipment necessary to burst
it at the required height and aim-off.
Her close - range armament, effective
enough for in-fighting, comprised three
shell-firing oerlikons, one each side of
the bridge and. another on a platform
abaft her squat funnel.
WITH the veil of dusk drawing across
a rising beam sea she steamed north
at a steady ten knots, rolling, her fore-
mast tracing its lightning-conductor
topped finger across the purpling sky in
a regular pendulum of arcing swoops.
The lookout was closed-up on top of
the bridge. He hummed an endless tune,
keeping his eyes fixed dutifully ahead in
a vacant stare. Beside him, its firing-
wire running below to the bridge-house,
poked a long, barrelled rocket device,
firing a rocket which burst into a para-
chute, a long trailing length of piano-
wire and a contact-exploded bomb at the
end of it. The aim of the hopeful de-
signer was to fire the projectile ahead of
a diving plane, which should then butt
its wing into the wire, draw the bomb up
against the drag of the parachute and
blow itself to pieces.
To date the weapon’s efficacy had been
wholly theoretical. A corvette would
roll on wet grass, and it needed a very
good ship-handler indeed to position his
craft and fire the thing at the right
moment. Too soon would allow the
attacking plane to avoid the ’chute ; too
late would allow him in before the
rocket burst. But, incomprehensibly
enough to a first-lieutenant fresh from
gunnery-school training and the compli-
cated mathematical exactitude of a
cruiser’s armament, old Bollardhead was
extremely fond of this weird addition to
his armament. Its use was something he
could understand.
The bridge was a scene of quiet
efficiency. Bollardhead had his head
poked into the tiny
chart-table, plot-
ting the night’s run
on his chart, his
khaki shorts,
stretched over an
ample stern, pulled
down to reveal a
white band of skin
below the tanned-
brown of his back.
His bandy, vein-
knotted legs were
straddled firmly on
the moving deck
like a pair of com-
passes, bending
alternately to take
his weight as the
ship rolled.
The helmsman
in his copper-
plated box (steel
would have thrown
the magnetic
needle out) stood
braced behind the
wheel, his eyes,
bent on the lighted
gyroface with . a
fixed stare, seem-
ing to project out
of a hungry face
as if the compass-card behind its glass
had been meat, his only movement the
practised spin of his hands as he kept her
on course. Number One was pacing the
narrow bridge at his back, tripping down
with small steps one moment, and the
next climbing with difficulty the shifting
slope of the deck. It was better exercise
than it appeared; a lively ship, to one
unused to its movement, can tire con-
stantly-braced muscles as much as a five-
mile walk.
Number One pulled up as the Old
Man pulled out. They stood beside the
wheel, swaying in unison, like a couple of
drunks.
“I think we’re set for tonight, sir.”
The younger man, looking down on the
bald old head near his shoulder, thought
of the aptness of naval sobriquets.
Aloud, he went on: “If he’s sent any-
thing out we would have met it by now.”
Old Bollardhead scanned as much of
the sky as he could see through the
bridge-windows before replying.
“I dunno, Number One. He has a few
airfields in there,” thumbing the blurring
dark mass to port, where a blind light-
house stood like a bleached bone stuck
in the sand. “And this is his favorite
time. I’ll give it another ten minutes be-
fore I have supper. How are those
blessed oerlikons of yours? Cleared
away? All right, all right.” He grinned
away the protesting assurance forming on
the other’s lips. “I know you’d take the
things to bed with you if you could.” He
leant over and unhooked his coolie hat
from the engine-room voice-pipe.
“M’m. I think you’re right. Bit late
now for him to start anything. I’ll be
in my”
HE was interrupted, abruptly, by the
bull-throated roar of a super-
charged engine. A vicious moth-winged
shape rocketed across the ship. There
was a whoosh and a wham and two gouts
of feathery foam belched into the air
a hundred feet on her beam, remained
suspended there a fraction of time, then
collapsed into cirples of creaming white
on the surface of the sea. The little ship
shuddered under the sub-surface blast
which hammered her plates. A vast
breath of air blew over the bridge and
slammed the Old Man’s hat against the
deck-head. Then came the roar, beating
against their ear-drums with an almost
physical pain.
Bollardhead, flung against the wheel-
house, caught a glimpse of a twin-
engined shape spearing up in a steep
climb before he bellowed: “Hard a
starb’d!”
For the first time in his life the helms-
man failed to repeat the order. But,
although it struck him speechless, the
shock did not hold him from twirling the
wheel until its spokes spun in a blurred
circle. Over the ship heeled, further,
until the* seas raced level with the lee
{Continued on next page.)


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A . MAQFEY, Chairman; F. W, Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8. White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director.
’Phone: B.W. 8361.
S. T. EUTTER, General Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States.
More Comfort, More Pleasure
when you fly the Pacific
OmlcJjLom Okdjjic Mu£e
fd
To UNITED STATES • CANADA
and UNITED KINGDOM
As you head skywards you immediately feel the extra comfort and
roominess of your “Empress of the Air”. Push button control
operates your “Loungaire” reclining chair, your individual fresh
air vent . . . and your reading lamp. Relax right out and test
your “Loungaire”—even if you’re tall there’s ample room. With
Canadian Pacific you fly by day then enjoy the luxury of
staying ashore at night both at Fiji and Honolulu. This way,
there’s more pleasure ashore and more comfort aloft.
Spend 24 or 36 Hours at famous
i ,»•
* I 4 '
iji
7 UO&H4,
HOTEL
?>tee/
RIGHT ON WAIKIKI BEACH
‘Exclusive with Canadian Pacific is your stop-over at Fiji; and your stay in
Honolulu with meals and accommodation included in the standard fare.
.w. £?/ mm&ssr
ALOHA!
A cordial welcome awaits you
at the famous MOANA Hotel where you
stay for a day as Canadian Pacific’s guest.
Ample time to 101 l on Waikiki Beach drive
around scenic Oahu Island swim or ride
the surf boards. Dance outdoors under the
stars at night on the famous Banyan Court.
NO DOLLARS REQUIRED.
Through fare In Australian Currency. 15 dollars
(U.S.) provided at Vancouver, Montreal or New
York for through passengers to or from United
Kingdom.
For further details apply Canadian Pacific Railway Company, or Union
Steam Ship Co. (General Agents), 247 George Street, Sydney, and
59 William, Melbourne, or any authorised Tourist Agency •
CiMuJim 6kd&c
AIRLINES V
"THE WINGS OF THE WORLD'S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM"
Canadian Pacific Air Lines Limited Incorporated !n Canada
Opportunity
beckons
Australia on
We are a larger nation than
before the War. Enterprising men
have seized many opportunities
for expansion but far greater
expansion awaits us.
Our annual output of wheat
has increased from 38,562,000
bushels in 1901 to approximately
200 million bushels, yet maize,
which could help us to increase
the output of meat and dairy
products, has fallen from a yield
of 8,940,000 tons in 1911 to
5,199,000 tons last year.
The production of milk—from
which all dairy products must come
has been much the same for
some years, and much less than the
world and our own housewives ask
of the Dairyfarmer. He will rise to
his opportunities, not by increasing
his acres, but by making each acre
produce more feed for his cows.
The Commercial Banking Com-
pany Limited through its Branches
is helping many men to do just
that.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
scuppers. Her head came round
into wind and sea. She plunged ;
and the plunge ended in a shock
as if she had landed her fore-
foot upon something solid. After
a moment of stillness a lofty
flight of sprays drove hard with
the wind upon their faces.
She was no sooner round and
pitching before the second plane
dived at her with a snarling
whine. Off her quarter the water
was ripped suddenly into a
lather of spurting white. The
leaden flail lifted and beat along
her side plates in a hammering
tattoo, crescendoed by the shrill
scream of ricochets. Then he,
too, was over and away in a
bellow of sound.
“Hell!” Bollardhead swore.
He staggered to the wing of the
bridge, clear of the limiting
deckhead, his head stretched
back, sweeping the sky for their
attackers. Number One fol-
lowed him. Bollardhead turned
savagely.
“What the blazes are you
waiting for! Get those guns
closed up! This is what you
wanted, ain’t it?”
“Aye, aye, sir! ”
Galvanised from his daze,
Number One jumped to the
fore-end of the bridge and
stabbed his thumb on the alarm-
buzzer. A shrill clamor rang
through* the pitching ship,
Already men were spewing
from doors and hatches, tying
on life-jackets and shouldering
gas-masks as they ran, stumbling
along the streaming upper-deck.
“Now I’ve lost the ,”
Bollardhead growled. “Look-
out! Where are they?”
An excited yell answered him,
“There they are, sir! Coming
in from the land. Two aircraft,
Angle of sight four oh!” 1
There they were, all right. One
well behind the other. “Bettys.”
Twin-engined low-level bombers,
They bore in for the ship, each
a line of wing, two propeller
arcs, and, in the centre between
them, a black nacelle muzzle
topped by a green-house glisten-
ing with the final reflections of
the sunset.
BOLLARDHEAD jumped.
In front of him the port
oerlikon burst into life, a mea-
sured hammer of sound accom-
panied by the clangor of
cylinder-cases falling on to the
deck in a brassy cascade. The
flaming tongue at its mouth pro-
longed itself into a long, grace-
ful arc of red stitches reaching
out to the nearest bomber. They
hosed below it in a fleeting
stream,
“Elevate, man, elevate! ”
Number One screamed from
behind the layer.
Up came the tracer; they
curved over, then lowered, and
bit into the plane’s wing. At
that moment the Jap dropped
his bomb.
They watched it fall, a black
blob just distinguishable in the
failing light. It, too, dropped
gracefully, in a long curve. Then
it hit the water close on the port
side and flung itself apart in a
geyser of white water.
The first-lieutenant had many
times wondered how it would
feel to be wounded —now he
knew. The steel sliver, hot from
the detonation that flung it,
belted his right shoulder and
spun him in a whirl of arms and
legs. He grabbed a stanchion,
and then it seemed the sea rose
up and poured down a wall of
sulphurous-stinking water over
him, beating him to his knees.
Gasping, drenched and half-
blinded with salt, he handled
himself up and groped forward,
alternately holding his useless
arm with the other and wiping
the water from his face. His
foot struck an unfamiliar ob-
struction and he fell heavily
upon it. He was on his knees
when his eyes cleared, and he
realised he had fallen on the
captain.
His heart jumped. The Old
Man was dead. The shock of
the thought spurred his train-
ing, What in hell was he doing
here, on his knees, when the
ship was his! He pawed at the
slippery deck, dragged himself
upright and lurched to the
wheel-house.
The ship was still heeling
under the Old Man’s avoiding
action for that second bomb.
“Meet her, cox’n, meet her,”
Number One panted, “Steady
as you go!”—then jumped as a
stentorian bellow pierced his
ears.
“I’ll give the bloody orders
on this bridge! Get back to
your guns. Hard a starb’d
there! Put it on, man, put it
on! Here comes the other
»”
THE Old Man, apparently,
was not as dead as Number
One would have him. He
stumbled over to the wheel-
house, shaking his head, which
looked as though someone had
capped it with a tin of raspberry-
jam, and looking back over the
port side to where the second
plane was making his run, com-
ing in low and fast a few feet
above the white-flecked sea.
Number One felt a great
weakness creeping over him. He
shook uncontrollably with a
spasm of vertigo and leant
against the end of the bridge.
An insistent refrain was beating
above the pain in his brain. He
lifted his head to order open
fire. Before he could utter the
words both port oerlikons
opened together. The twin
streams of tracer leaped out, one
well over the bulking target, the
other, as the ship rolled, spray-
ing into the sea. “God,” thought
Number One,
He nearly fell as the ship
heeled. She was careering round,
striving to get her stem pointed
at the oncoming plane. The
after oerlikon ceased firing. It
could not bear. Number One
slewed to shout to the captain.
The blasted old idiot! What the
hell was he doing? Then, be-
fore he could speak, the thing
that prefaced the next few
violent seconds happened. He
saw the Old Man reach up and
haul savagely at a thin wire
above his head. In immediate
response a whoosh of sound
burst from above the bridge and
a wavering line of white smoke
shot skywards behind its rocket.
Up it soared, above the plane,
then burst.
No one saw clearly how it
happened—the piano-wire was
invisible. But Number One
caught a momentary glimpse of
the white parachute being
abruptly clutched down, as
though by a giant hand. Then
before their eyes a vivid splash
of red flame split the dusk. The
plane heeled sharply. It careered
on one wing straight for the
sea. The wing touched and
sprayed a white spume behind
it. Then he was down, in a
great splash, and a burst of
petrol-driven fire shot over the
water like snakes’ tongues.
Above the spot, thick at the
base and frayed out to leeward
by the wind at its top, stretched
a tombstone of smoke.
“Steady as you go, cox’n,”
said the Old Man.
‘‘ 1 OVELY bit of gunnery,
1—- sir,” said Number One
with a weak grin.
Old Bollardhead growled at
him over his shoulder as he
helped himself out to the lifting
bridge - wing. “Aim - off just
right, eh?” And grinned with
pleasure.
“I don’t see the other bloke
around,” he called from the
wing. “He’s either had enough
or it’s too dark for him. Here! ”
He noticed Number One lean-
ing weakly against the wheel-
house. “You get below and let
the sick-bay tiffy have a look at
that shoulder. Me? Oh, I’m
all right. Teak, y’ know.”
The youngster turned to the
bridge ladder. The Old Man
helped him over, and paused at
the top,
“By the way, on second
thoughts I think you’d better
have the oerlikon crews drilled
first thing in the morning. Eh?
What in hell are you staring
at?”
The other grinned a bit and
nodded. “Yes, sir.”
Old Bollardhead clumped back
to the compass, then turned
again.
“Oh, Number One.”
“Yessir?”
“You —er —you might make
that standing routine, would
you?”


I
/tetfaunattcc
Fill a Spafßets Syphon with
water, a“ charge ’.‘. It with a
Sparklets Bulb—and in-
stantly a syphon of fresh
zesty * soda ’ is yours!
Refilling takes only a few
moments.
Ask your dealer for particulars
of new Standard and Streamline
models, or write for Illustrated
folder to
WILCOX
MOFFLIN LTD.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Australian Distributors for:
SPARKLETS
SYPHONS
SPARKLETS LTD., LONDON N. 18
Nu-metal
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1-934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in ,a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1, 4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 80/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 13/9/’5O
BRISTOL. TRADING COMPANY,
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street. Sydney. MA 7250
\
BLEMISHES
Spots, roughness
and soreness mar
the beauty of
skin and com-
plexion I Use Cuticura
Soap regularly Its
antiseptic and qiedtQioai pro-
perties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio—Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder., _
529
f
iNOQMOI °*
J.S3JSVJ
m
ONLY 3} DAYS*
via AMERICA
(NO DOLLARS NEEDED)
Leave Sydney with BCPA on Satur-
dayf at II a.m., arrive London
for breakfast on Tuesday! No
problems for through pas-
sengers—BCPA’s fare Includes a
special dollar allowance for meals
and accommodation. Travelling by
BCPA you see Honolulu and the
fabulous cities of North America,
and over the "Southern Cross'*
route you enjoy the luxurious com-
fort of the sleeper-equipped DC-6.
For no additional fare, you may
break your journey at any point
along the route.
* Actual elapsed time only 77 bn,
4S mins.
df
TO UNITED KINGDOM
SINGLE £325
RETURN £585
d
t Departures every Wednesday and
Saturday. Full particulars from your
local travel agent, or any airline
booking office. General Sales Agents:
Trans-Australia Airlines. BCPA Head
Office: S 3 Martin Place, Sydney.
BW 2741.
BOA.4UW
Banish stabbing pains of
BACKACHE
mmm
m
■
m
That “Sudden” stab-
bing pain it a danger
sign . . . excess uric acid
in kidneys can cause so
MUCH trouble.
Housework can be such a
“drag” when backache and kid-
ney pains make life miserable.
But you’ll find relief in Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills. Start on
a course now.
Your Kidneys must func-
tion normally to filter out
poisons and excess uric acid
in the system. Help weak
kidneys do their Job properly.
Take Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
Many sufferers enjoy such re-
lief in a day or two, they keep
taking them for a few weeks
to stay free from nagging
aches and pains.
Get a bottle at your nearest
Chemist or Store.
27 Pills 2/ —60 Pills 8/-.
Dr. Sheldon’s
■
FOB THE KIDNEYS
SUNDRY SHOWS
Norman Lindsay
Etchings.
The walls of the Sedon Gal-
leries in Melbourne are blazing
with red tabs, and the tabs are
on the frames of pictures, and
the pictures, of course, are
Norman Lindsay etchings.
A Norman Lindsay show
always gives me a pleasant feel-
ing ; it has pleasant associations,
probably because it was Lind-
say’s first show, at the time of
the Great Secession when the
Society of Artists broke away
from the Royals in Sydney*
which inspired my first Bulletin
contribution. It wasn’t a very re-
markable composition, though
very complimentary to Mr, Lind-
say, who probably never
bothered to read it; but it was
full of feeling because I thought
that here was an artistic revo-
lution or renaissance and I was
in the forefront. At that first
show agitated matrons frenziedly
steered their daughters round
hoping against hope that they
might find a bunch of flowers or
a bowl of fruit or something that
their offspring could safely look
at.
There hasn’t been any agita-
tion at the Sedon Galleries, and
old ladies who were so horrified
at that first show aren’t losing
a heartbeat; while the younger
set are inclined to be a trifle
sniffy, regarding the artist as a
bit stodgy and stuck in old forms
and fashions.
Yet Lindsay’s subject-matter
hasn’t altered in the slightest, or
his treatment either, so what has
happened? Like Shaw, Mr.
Lindsay has become an institu-
tion, and we have become used
to his nymphs and satyrs and
medieval scoundrels and wenches
just as we have become used to
Shaw’s plays and think that we
always knew all that and always
thought in that way.
Still, there must be something
universal in Mr. Lindsay’s pic-
tures or they wouldn’t have per-
sisted. What is it? Most of his
nudes aren’t sensual, like Renoir’s
or Rubens’s; in fact, they are
almost purely mental. Mr. Lind-
say isn’t interested in the visual
world much, so you don’t feel
yourself to be in the presence of
real men and women when you
look at his pictures. He is a
thinker who is much more inter-
ested in ideas on sex and life and
so forth, and has chosen pic-
torial expression for them. But
behind the ideas it is his per-
sonal vitality and his amazing
technical fluency which keep his
pictures alive, —F. S,
Black and Blue.
So sharply are the schools of
art in Sydney divided at the
moment that it is almost pos-
sible to draw a clear dividing
line between blue painters and
black painters. Blue painters go
mostly to the Royal Art Society
and paint hills and water in a
popular style at a distance after
Gruner and Streeton; black
painters go mostly to the Society
of Artists and struggle darkly
with dark emotions.
From the blue painters you
are likely to get a more immedi-
ate charm; from the black
painters a deeper emotional
quality; but since art isn’t
essentially either black or blue it
is not much use trying to choose
between them. A “Spring Ex-
hibition” at the Grosvenor Gal-
leries offers, in a minor way, a
fair sprinkling from both
schools.
The best of the blue pictures
is S. Woodward Smith’s “The
Edge of the Lake,” and this is
by far the best picture Wood-
ward Smith has yet exhibited,
really an exceptionally attrac-
tive scene of boats and water
and mangroves and blue hills in
his rather thin style.
The best of the black pictures
is George Lawrence’s “Sand
Dunes, Tuggerah,” a small com-
pact oil in which - everything
speaks darkly of storm, salt and
the struggle of windswept vege-
tation to survive. You would
hardly think this bit of water
could exist in the same country
as Woodward Smith’s ; but they
do, and they are both, so far as
they go, true.
The best pictures of all, be-
cause they are neither black nor
blue and their truth is more
subtly balanced, are Frank Mc-
Namara’s watercolor “From
Nambucca Heads,” a twisting
reach of cliffs and sea much
fuller in color than anything he
showed in this year’s Watercolor
Exhibition, and a small, lyrical
Lance Solomon oil, “Morning
on the Billabong.”
Lloyd Rees, usually the
blackest of the black painters,
rather spoils this beautiful theory
by painting two warm, red
landscapes; and the other ex-
hibitors include Margaret Pres-
ton, Garrett Kingsley, William
Dargie, Clarence Parker, Eric
Langker, James R. Jackson and
Nora Hey sen.
The George Bell Group, which
comprises Russell Drysdale,
Geoffrey Jones, Constance
Stokes, Dr. Clive Stephen, Alan
Sumner, Alan Warren, Sali Her-
man and George Bell himself,
have been showing their pictures
at George’s Gallery, Melbourne,
The resemblance between the
name of the gallery and the
founder of the group is, as they
say, only coincidental, but there
is nothing coincidental in the
resemblance between the works
of the various members. What
they all seem to be striving after
are new forms, and Dr. Clive
Stephen carries it into marble.
A contemporary style is what
the professor of fine arts who
opened the exhibition called it,
and he remarked that it was the
most significant advance in the
art of the country. A new form
has been created, he said. Well,
of course, the Italian primitives
painted elongated figures like
Geoffrey Jones’s “Boy with
Calf,” and so did El Greco ; and
Rubens painted fat girls. The
difference between an elongated
figure by Jones and one by El
Greco is the quality of the paint-
ing. El Greco’s nudes look like
flesh and Mr. Jones’s don’t. It
is what is put into the forms, not
the forms themselves, which is
important. With the exception
of Russell Drysdale’s “Yawning
Woman” and Sali Herman’s
“Bush Camp,” little quality is to
be seen in any of the paintings.
Goossens
and Benjamin.
Arthur Benjamin’s Piano Con-
certo, given its world premiere
last week with the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra under Eugene
Goossens and with the composer
as soloist, proved to be much ado
about very little. It commenced
with plenty of vigor, a quality
that was sustained throughout,
but, unfortunately, that couldn’t
compensate for the paucity of
melodic invention. True, there
were ingenious contrapuntal
touches here and there, but the
thematic material isn’t good and
its development is uninspired.
Debussy’s “Fragments from
the Martyrdom of St. Sebastian”
combined with the Concerto to
make the first half of the pro-
gramme with the exception
of Gluck’s “Alcestis” Overture,
a scholarly piece of music given
compatible treatment —one well
below par. As in so much of his
orchestral work, this Debussy is
flaccid stuff, touched now and
again with some fine writing.
The climax to the middle move-
ment brought out some beauti-
ful trumpet work by John
Robertson.
After the break came a strik-
ing change, when the orchestra
hungrily sank its teeth into
Berlioz’s “Romeo and Juliet”
Symphony, and gave an exhilar-
ating performance.
The love music in this is
Berlioz in his most boldly ori-
ginal vein, and at his creative
best. The varying moods of the
play he brilliantly captured: the
gaiety of the fete at the Capu-
lets’, the gossamer fragility of the
Queen Mab episode as ex-
pounded by Mercutio, the final
tragedy of the ill-starred lovers—
music, this last, of great spiritual
intensity, Frank Lisle’s bass-
baritone easily coped with the
solo ringing in the final section
devoted to the reconciliation of
the feuding families, and the
Police Choir and the Conserva-
torium Girls’ Choir raised well-
disciplined voices in support.
"Pride and Prejudice."
Melbourne National Theatre
has been putting on a new adap-
tation by Margaret Macna-
mara of Jane Austen’s novel and
doing it rather nicely—although
the adaptation hasn’t the full
flavor of the novel in spite of the
fact that much of the dialogue
has been carried over into the
play in toto.
Jane Austen was an acute ob-
server of the social artimal in
all his and her antics, and though
she didn’t see much deeper than
the surface she had a fine indul-
gence. The play stays more on
the surface level, and on that
level Margaret Mouchemore
painted an admirable portrait of
Mrs. Bennett, the social animal
with five female cubs for whom
she wants to find wealthy hus-
bands. The little social animals
of the opposite sex, or no sex at
all, come round, Charles Bingley,
Fitzwilliam Darcy and Mr.
Collins, and the hopeless comedy
is enacted.
They are caricatures of human
beings, and the playwright tends
to make them more of a carica-
ture than they’ve already been
made by their queer education,
and none more so than the cele-
brated Mr. Collins. That extra-
ordinary parson, tied to the
apron-strings of a titled lady and
seeking the hand of one of Mrs.
Bennett’s daughters out of duty
to his patroness, was extremely
well done by Frank Gatliff,
whose magnificent calves were
clad in silk stockings.


r<3
G.P.0.. ADELAIDE. S.A.
On November 1, 1867, H.R.H.
The Duke of Edinburgh laid the
foundation-stone of the Adelaide
O.P.O * the building being com-
pleted and opened for business
on May 6, 1872.
The height of the tower contain-
ing the GP.O. clock is 149 ft*
diameter of the clock face
being 7 ft. 8 in.
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURED CIGARETTE
Public Notice.
I, STAVROS STER JANOS, of Greek
nationality, bom at Plomari, Lesbos,
Greece, resident 23 years in Australia,
now residing at 144 Campbell Street,
Sydney, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act, 1948.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO NORRIS GERALD COSSINS late of
Brisbane—TAKE NOTICE that ANNIE
COSSINS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2200 of 1950 on the grounds of
your desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse and
is asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an Appear-
ance at the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 13fh
day of November 1950 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
O. P. WHITE & SONS, Solicitors, 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydne y.—J.
DOUGH AN, Registrar.
TOUW,
*V.
mm
m
B
va
- -iLfeA
■
7
a®
/
.
At.
m
m
i
Olympic
Crojans
Australia's most reliable truck tyres
orsf.l6.SO
ff
A,Proper Off HE OLmttC TW I BHBBER <& tm
THE SERVICE MAN
South Koreans Break.
“Ek Dum”: The continued
‘attack of the Communist forces
against the northern side of the
American defence-box in Korea
has been of such strength that it
began to make ground early in
the week. The pressure has
been on since August 28.
The northern defence-line was
very largely held by South
Koreans, who, though reorga-
nised and to some extent
equipped to deal with tanks,
were still rather a poor lot of
reeds to lean on even when
bolstered by U.S. support.
The fighting continued to be
indecisive until September 5,
when in the north it swung
in favor of the North Koreans,
who allegedly breached the
U.N.O. line after enveloping
Pohang and began to send con-
siderable forces through the gap
thus made and to fan them out
much in the manner followed by
the Russians in the invasion of
East Prussia, one lot following
the main road towards Pusan
and others spreading out to get
at the rear of American forces
in the north and north-west and
athwart their communication-
lines.
On the afternoon of Septem-
ber 5, when the North Koreans
had thrown a fresh division, the
15th, into the breach. General
MacArthur’s spokesman ad-
mitted that the position in the
north was serious and that the
parts of the three South Korean
divisions and the 24th U.s.
Division detachments holding
the northern line were having a
desperate time despite their
equipment with M 26 tanks,
which are 43-tonners.
The main Communist drive
presented channelled itself into
the constricted river valley run-
ning toward Taegu and Fusan,
down which they had penetrated
to within 10 miles of Taegu on
September 5, though apparently
not in great force.
By September 6 they had com-
pelled a general U.N.O. with-
drawal along the whole of the
northern line, though the situa-
tion was obviously not as
dangerous as averred by some
of the mere 260 correspondents
who are now at the Korean
front or somewhere near it.
The Communist pressure right
round the front to the Naktong
River bend above Masan was
heavy, and there was some com-
pression of the defence box with
four Communist forces struggl-
ing for access to Taegu from the
north, north-west, south-west
and south.
The Americans, however,
seemed to have succeeded in
preventing the penetration in the
north from becoming a real
break-through, according to a
Washington spokesman, with
whose opinion there was con-
siderable disagreement in Korea,
where the view seemed to be
that the North Koreans had
completely smashed the Allied
flank in the Pohang area.
Correspondents were in their
gloomiest mood throughout the
week, and by September 9 the
consensus of their opinion
seemed to be that the northern
front from above Taegu to Po-
hang was in danger of collapsing,
with the consequent likelihood
that Taegu, which is more valu-
able because of its airfield than
as a headquarters, would fall.
The weather favored the
enemy in the latest drives of the
week, the wet having set in and
wiped out much of the advan-
tage of the U.N.O. air arm which
had virtually owned the sky for
a long time and which had done
a great deal to balance the
superiority of the North Koreans
in manpower.
“Break-throughs” or Pene-
trations
The danger-spot in the
northern attacks was near Yong-
chon, about halfway between
Pohang and Taegu, where the
Communists were said to have
“ripped a three-mile hole in the
defences,” after Yongchon had
changed hands twice in three
days. An unnamed officer at
forward headquarters was re-
ported as saying that the next
two days would be critical and
that the situation was “very
serious.” But the same day
General MacArthur’s spokesman
in Tokyo said that he was un-
able to confirm the. reports of
a Communist break-through.
Up to the time of issuing the
weekend communique he was
still in the same position. There
seemed to be no doubt that the
Communists had made some
ground in the north, but the re-
ports of “break-throughs” still
were in the realm of semi-fiction.
In fact, in the Yongchon area,
where the latest of many gaps
was supposed to be yawning,
the communique of September
10 reported that a South Korean
regiment had “advanced 1500
yards eastward, taking high
ground a mile south-east of the
city, while the Communists with-
drew in disorder, leaving arms
and equipment.”
The British troops have been
in action this week and had their
first casualties. They are in the
north-west of the defence line
in the Waegwan area —Waegwan
itself is now in Communist
hands.
The situation undoubtedly
continues somewhat perilous,
due largely to the dilatoriness of
the “United Nations” outside the
United States in getting into
action. So far, except for Ameri-
cans and British Commonwealth,
U.N.O. aid has consisted en-
tirely of advice and promises.
However, the truth probably lies
in General Walker’s statement
made on September 10 that “we
aren’t in much danger, but we
are going to get some more
bloody noses.”
North Korean advances would
be better described as infiltra-
tions rather than “break-
throughs.” The lines through
which they “rip” exist mainly in
the imaginations of the corres-
pondents. A “line” of 120-odd
miles held by the meagre force
now available to the sorely-tried
United States commander is a
thing of holes and positions
through which the enemy can
wander almost unresisted even
in some force if he chooses the
right point. Thus he is able to
cut roads and threaten Ameri-
can communications, leading to
withdrawals which usually are
followed by painful counter-
blows.
At this stage U.S. withdrawals
are far from fatal. The policy
of the defence seems to be to
keep its manpower as much in-
tact as possible, and so long as
this is done retirement is not
altogether a disadvantage. The
process is more exhausting to
the North Koreans, and every
mile the Americans and South
Koreans move back tightens
their defence front and lengthens
the enemy’s communication-line.
Time is the item which is most
valuable still on the U.S. side,
and their only concern is to hold
a sufficient beachhead at Fusan
to enable them to organise there
and to keep as many troops of
the enemy as possible at the
bottom of the peninsula before
the cleaning-up movement be-
gins. It will be time enough to
panic when Fusan itself is
directly threatened.
Meantime the U.S. command
shows no signs of panicking. Its
losses have not been light—about
600 killed and something over
7000 wounded and missing
during the first three months of
the war, but many of the
wounded have gone back into
the fighting-line.
Uncle Sam could undoubtedly
provide troops to settle the
matter if it were not for the
threatening world situation and
a determination not to be
trapped into sending forces to
a remote corner of the Bast
while enemy troops are massing
in Europe and at other danger-
pointy
Formosa and the
Pacific.
“Ek Dum”: The differences of
opinion between Mr, Truman
and General Mac Arthur and be-
tween the British and U.S. Gov-
ernments over Formosa have
produced a serious rift in Pacific
policy. It has been announced
that Mr. Spender and the British
Government have agreed as to
what their stand will be on the
issue, but no details are given.
The situation is certainly
awkward. The Socialist Gov-
ernment of the United Kingdom
decided to recognise the Chinese
Communist Government, a
course not necessarily open to
criticism, though it produced a
remarkable situation of unique
quality. In U.N.O. Britain
recognises Chiang Kai-shek’s
Government as a great Power
possessed of the veto. In the
territory of that great Power it
recognises a conquering Russian
satellite Government which has
been guilty of aggression and
which endangers the safety of
the world by its policy of open
co-operation with Russia in
plans for “world peace” through
universal revolution and sup-
pression of individual freedom.
While, as a member of U.N.O.
it surely must have misgivings
about any attack on territory
held by a U.N.O. member, the
U.K. is against any measure of
interference in Formosa, the
H.Q. of that “great” U.N.O.
Power, Nationalist China, a
position which is more than
strange in the light of the fact
that Formosa is not in the
ordinary sense Chinese territory.
It is part of territory ceded to
Japan more than half a century
ago. Its occupancy by Japan was
accepted by Britain and other
Powers. If Japan had not be-
come involved in World War II
Formosa would have continued
to be Japanese territory, prob-
ably till the end of time. At
present it is supposedly Allied-
occupation territory, held pend-
ing a peace treaty with Japan
by the Nationalist Chinese.
The differences between
President Truman and General
MacArthur largely have their
base in the fact that one speaks
as a politician and the other as


REflllS
m
m
m
with
SWAN
INK
The contents of a li oz. bottle
of “Swan” Ink, price .Bd. refills
a standard sized fountain pen
40 times! One small “Swan”
bottle provides the means for
writing tens of thousands of
words in hundreds of letters.
In these days of rising costs —
five refills for a penny—that’s
real honest-to-goodness
economy!
“Swan” Ink, Australia’s most
popular brand is available in
Blue-black, Red, Blue, Green
and Violet. Buy a bottle from
your stationer or favourite store
today.
MABIE, TODD & CO.
(jUIST.) PTY, LTD., S»D«E»
,6/120
Danger
Gossips at Work!
Every year countless lives
are damaged and untold
misery is caused by malicious
gossip. In September Reader’s
Digest a well-known Ameri-
can writer tells bow in one
town he knows, vicious (but
unfounded) gossip drove a
young girl to suicide; in
another, how a doctor’s prac-
tice was ruined; in a third,
how a minister’s pulpit was
threatened. Here’s whaj; psy-
chologists have learned really
causes gossip how slander
can be stopped.
September Reader’s Digest
all newsagents and book-
stalls, one shilling and six-
pence. Get your copy today
and enjoy the, wealth of
stimulating articles
condensed from leading
magazines and current books,.
'"Wnen 444
j> * in S^dne^
Stay at Pleasant Point Piper,
Sydney’s exclusive district close
to Famous Beaches, Rose Bay
Golf Club, Yachting, Tennis,
Buses, etc.
We cater for a limited number of
Discriminating Guests. Spacious
High Ceilinged Rooms, Attrac-
tively Furnished with Every
Comfort and quiet Privacy.
Delicious Breakfasts are Served
in your Rooms from 7.30 a.m.
as you desire. Newly established.
Fully Recommended by all
Banks.
For Reservations and Par-
ticulars write Management,
Room 5, Floor 1, 44 Castle-
reagh St. Phone 8W3807,
FM 2017.
0EBM&
MVI
AMAZING OFFER
WORK OUT THE HUGE CASH SAVING YOU MAKE
m
y' >
Sensation ai
TRACT CONTINENTAL
Proved for power, performance and versatility
TOGETHER WITH
NORMAG
TWIN DIESEL
WHEEL TRACTOR
Here’s a special offer which can never be repeated.
The sensational TRACT-CONTINENTAL Crawler
Tractor powered by Berliet Rickardo Diesel Engine—
AND the renowned NORMAG Diesel Twin com-
bined for a record low price.
C °MBIhlEo
price
'nance
ran 9Bj
NORMAG
Here Is a Tractor of amazing versatility. Ideally
suited for drawing all equipment, the Normag will
give you continuous trouble free performance with a
Diesel fuel consumption of as little as Vz gallon per
hour. Special features include dustproof, totally en-
closed Bosch fuel injection pump, push button electric
start, 74 M turning radius.
TESTS
In recent N.S.W. State Government tests, a ten disc
Sundercut weighing 21% cwt., and fitted with altern-
ate 20 in. and 22 in. diameter discs, was handled by
NORMAG, sundercutting to an average depth of
4Vsin. to Sin. over a width of 63in. in second gear,
and covering one mile in 20 minutes (3 m.p.h.).
Starting pull: 21 cwt. (18V4 D.8.H.P.). Average
pull: 18 cwt. (16 D.8.H.P.). In practical belt
pulley test driving a double bagging chaff-cutter,
NORMAG obtained an output of over 50 bags per
hour. In trailer tests, a gross load of 8 tons 12
cwt. was hauled in third gear.
The 1949 Technical Annual published by “Power
Farming in Australia and New Zealand,” rates
NORMAG’S capacity as replacing an “8 to 10
horse ■ team.” Heavy duty swinging drawbar, rear
power take-off, high trailer hitch and belt-pulley
(15 in diam. 8,000 r.p.mj are standard equipment.
SPECIFICATIONS
Tare weight-r 5,264 lbs. 22/24 h.p. Pull of 2,393 lbs.
at 3.4 miles per hour. Speed: 1,500 r.p.m. Four
cycle, vertical, two cylinder, valve-in-head. Bosch
diesel fuel injection and transfer pump system, with
precision fuel measurement. Fuel tank capacity: 8
imperial gallons. Renewable cylinder liners. Piston
assembly easily removed. Four forward speeds—one
reverse speed. Drawbar: Heavy duty. Full swinging.
Full front springing. Easy gear shift. Rear power
take-off. Wheel base, 69 in. Length overall 106 in
Width overall, 62 in. Front tyres, 750 x 16. Rear
tyres, 12.75 x 24. SPARE PARTS—Complete Stocks
TRACT CONTINENTAL
Under actual field conditions, drawbar effort tests
carried out at Granville, N.S.W., under supervision
of State Government Department, the Tract Con-
tinental gave a remarkable performance. It is de-
signed so that dozers and logging winches, as well
as all standard equipment, can be readily fitted.
SPECIFICATIONS
Brief specifications of the TRACT CONTINENTAL
are as follows:
Engine: 4-cylinder diesel, rated at 69.020 BHP.
Bore: 4.7 in.: stroke 6.3 in.; speed 1,400 RPM
Speeds: IVi, 2Vi, 3, 4V4, 5Vi MPH forward; re-
verse 2Vi MPH. Rated drawbar pull: Ist gear,
11,880 lb.; 2nd gear, 9680 lb.; 3rd gear, 6380 lb ;
4th gear, 5060 lb.; sth gear, 3300 lb. (Maximum at
local test, 14,425 lb. in Ist gear.) Length of track
on ground: 73.4 in. Track tread: 54 in. Ground
pressure; 4.1 lb. per sq. in. Dimensions: Length,
127.5 in.; height, 59 in.; width, 75 in. Weight-
-13,000 lb. (approx.). g
• Immediate Delivery • Limited Stock
SUTTONS MOTORS Pty. Ltd.
137-153 Bourlce Street, East Sydney
Telephone: FA6791 (6 lines)
a soldier expounding a strategic
truth.
President Truman has agreed
that Formosa must remain in-
violate while its fate is decided,
and the State Department is pre-
pared to welcome and approve a
full investigation by the United
Nations of the position concern-
ing the island. Any chance of
U.N.O, being unanimous on
that question is 50-to-l against,
as shown by the differences of
the Security Council. Pending
investigation, and to prevent any
use being made of Formosa
against the U.N.O. allies in the
Korean war. President Truman
took steps to have the ap-
proaches to the island patrolled
by the U.S. Seventh Fleet to
prevent a Communist Chinese
invasion.
General MacArthur goes
further. In his message to a
congress of veterans at Chicago
he said that he felt bound, “in
view of misconceptions currently
being voiced concerning the re-
lationship of Formosa to our
strategic potential in the Pacific,
I believe it in the public interest
.... to state my views.”
Whatever his position in re-
lation to his own Government
and its policy there need be no
question as to General Mac-
Arthur’s competence to form an
opinion, which in any case is
fully supported by every student
of strategy, including those on
the side of the enemy.
He declared that the belts of
Pacific islands which run down
the east coast of Asia and be-
yond acted as a protective shield
to all the Americans and all the
free lands of the Pacific Ocean.
From that chain they could
dominate with air-power every
Asiatic port from Vladivostok to
Singapore and prevent any pre-
datory movement into the
Pacific. The holding of these
islands by the Western Powers
envisaged no attack against any-
body. The islands did not pro-
vide bastions for offence, but,
properly maintained, could pro-
vide the basis of invincible de-
fence, He added;
If we hold this line we may have
peace—but lose it and war is inevitable.
If Formosa should fall, he
said, it would constitute an
enemy salient in the very centre
of the Pacific Ocean defensive
perimeter, especially since For-
mosa now had a concentration
of naval and air bases greater
potentially than any similar con-
centration on the Asiatic main-
land between the Yellow Sea
and the Straits of Malacca.
Further bases (he declared)
could be developed in a relatively
short time, and any enemy force
utilising those installations cur-
rently available would increase
by 100 per cent, the air effort
which could be directed against
Okinawa as compared with
operations based on the main-
land. The enemy, at the same
time, could direct damaging air
attacks with fighter-type aircraft
against friendly institutions in
the Philippines now currently be-
yond the range of fighters
operating from the mainland.
The enemy also could utilise
Formosa as a base of operations
for short-range submarines to
threaten completely air traffic
from the south and interdict all
sea-lanes in the western Pacific.
Nothing could be more fal-
lacious, he holds, than “the
threadbare argument of those
who advocated appeasement and
defeatism in the Pacific that if
they defended Formosa they
might alienate continental Asia.”
Those who spoke thus did not
understand the Oriental and did
not grasp that it is “the pattern
of Oriental psychology to respect
and follow aggressive, resolute
and dynamic leadership and
quickly to turn from leadership
characterised by timidity or
vacillation.”
To take any course which did
not envisage the defence of For-
mosa would be “to turn over
the fruits of Pacific victory in
World War II to a potential
enemy” and “shift any future
battle area 5000 miles eastward
to the coasts of the American
continents.”
Australia has good cause to
realise the truth of General
MacArthur’s viewpoints. Had
the long trail of islands ap-
proaching this country,-or even
some of them, been firmly held
by the British, Americans and
Dutch the Japanese invasion of
the south-west Pacific would
have been a very different, and
for them humiliating, story. Tens
of thousands of American, Aus-
tralian and British lives would
have been saved. The history of
the world would have been pro-
foundly affected.
And whatever sacrifices poli-
ticians and Foreign Offices feel
it necessary to make to expedi-
ency, the essential fact remains
that Formosa, the Ryukyus, the
Philippines and the islands which
lie between Australia and Japan
should never again be allowed to
fall into the hands of people
who could use them offensively.
Wing-Commander
Spence Killed.
The week’s fighting in Korea
was sadly marked by the fourth
casualty of the R.A.A.F.’s 77th
Squadron, the death of its
gallant commander, Wing-Com-
mander L. T. Spence, D.F.C.,
whose aircraft crashed into the
ground and exploded during an
attack near Pohang on Sep-
tember 9.
Wing-Commander Spence was
a civilian-trained enthusiast, a
clerk in the Bank of New South
Wales in Brisbane, who enlisted
for service in 1940. In the
Middle East he was the hero of
a remarkable rescue of a com-
rade who had made a forced
landing and whom he carried up
in his own single-seat fighter. He
sat on the rescued man’s knee
and in that awkward position in
the cockpit manipulated the con-
trols.
He was at Darwin in the early
days of the Japanese war with
452nd Spitfire Squadron and
there won the D.F.C. He went
to the 77th Squadron and com-
manded it through the Milne
Bay and other important opera-
tions.
Later he was seconded to
other duties, and a few months
ago was engaged in helping to
frame the curriculum and train-
ing- methods of the infant
R.A.A.F. College at Point Cook,
His loss to the R.A.A.F. is a
severe one. He was not only a
first-class fighting pilot but a
born leader of men who was
destined for high rank in the
service at no distant time.
He died at a time when his
squadron had established a fine
record in Korea, having made
1100 sorties in eight weeks and
destroyed 38 tanks, 12 bridges
and over 200 vehicles.


■
'
Schweppervescence
lasts the whole drink through
(b/fcf
SCHWEPPES
fd
•inut nm n«w*CTttH*»
WO H. M. KINO GKOROK «l
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ROW OVER FORMOSA.
Some of Attlee’s Left-winger
boys having suggested in a
London “Times” letter that their
Government should not support
the U.S. holding of Formosa,
another Labor member, L. D.
Gammans, retorted in the same
columns:
“If the Americans are to be
told that they can do without
our help, presumably we are
prepared to do without theirs.
Shall we revoke the Atlantic
Pact, refuse all American
military and economic aid, and
retire into a splendid but brief
isolationism?
“The reason why we are to
break with our ally over
Formosa is the legalistic one that
the island, although still part of
the Japanese Empire until a
peace-treaty is signed, was
promised to Chiang Kai-shek in
1943 and, therefore, can be con-
sidered Chinese territory which
the present Chinese Communist
Government should auto-
matically inherit.
“In the Kremlin these legal
quibbles would be regarded
either as a huge joke after a
good dinner or as an argument
thought too thin even for their
propaganda among the more
simple-minded.”
A remarkable thing is the
amount of distinctly timid, not
to say downright scared, com-
ment in the British Press on
Formosa. Even more so, per-
haps, than in the earlier attitude
towards Korea, there is a rather
over-eager rush to wish the
whole thing oh to America;
though, as to this,* the top U.S.
daily, the “New York Times,”
has pointed out that, whereas
Korea is a United Nations
action, Formosa is wholly a
separate U.S. affair.
In view, however, of the tone
of much British comment, the
“Economist” (always one of the
most realistic) refreshingly points
out just what the American
position on Formosa amounts
to. Stating that a Chinese Com-
munist attack on Formosa
would be, both in fact and in
legal theory, an attempt to de-
cide by force what should be
decided by international agree-
ment, it adds:
“It is true that the restoration
of Japanese-occupied Formosa
to China was promised to
Chiang Kai-shek in Cairo in
1943, but only as part of the
peace settlement with Japan, As
the Peking Government has de-
clared null and void all arrange-
ments made with foreign Powers
by the ‘traitor’ Chiang, it can
hardly invoke in one case prin-
ciples it spurns in others. The
American Seventh Fleet has, in
short, been carrying out a
thoroughly respectable police
operation off Formosa.”
Also, exactly what President
Truman said in ordering the
Formosa move on June 27 needs
to be remembered. Said Mr.
Truman:
“It [Communism] has defied
the orders of the Security Coun-
cil of the United Nations to
preserve international peace and
security. In these circumstances
the occupation of Formosa by
Communist forces would be a
direct threat to the security of
the Pacific area and to United
States forces performing their
lawful and necessary functions
in that area.
“Accordingly I have ordered
the Seventh Fleet to prevent any
attack on Formosa. As a corol-
lary of this action I am calling
on the Chinese Government of
Formosa to cease all air and
sea operations against the main-
land. The Seventh Fleet will
see that this is done. The de-
termination of the future status
of Formosa must await the
restoration of security in the
Pacific, a peace settlement with
Japan or consideration by the
United Nations.”
Business as Usual.
Mr. Churchill’s recent sensa-
tional exposure of Attlee
Britain’s machine-tool trading
with Russia touched only one
aspect of the general business-as-
usual on those lines.
London “Daily Telegraph,”
for instance, has given a merely
f.a.q. example of its being “un-
fortunately only too true to say
that the facts of the ‘cold war’
have not yet been fully
grasped”: —
“Once again the same mis-
takes are being made as were
committed in the early months
of 1939, when Britain’s inade-
quate and tardy efforts at re-
armament were partly offset by
her willingness to allow Ger-
many (as, later, Japan) to pur-
chase from us strategic raw
materials.
“Yet if there were any doubt
of the evil portents of the pre-
sent time it should surely be dis-
pelled by casting an eye oh the
statistics for recent purchases of
rubber by Russia, which are far
higher than her needs for peace-
ful purposes. In 1938 27,000
tons met all her requirements,
but in the last six months some
35,000 tons have been shipped
to her, and in the last two she is
reported , to have purchased
40,000. Latterly her satellite
Czechoslovakia has been called
in to take a hand, and is now
buying more rubber im a month
than she previously bought in
six....
“As long ago as April Mr.
Wilson (President of the Board
of Trade), questioned about ex-
ports to Russia of steel, tinplate
and engineering equipment, gave
an assurance that the Govern-
ment exercised control over ex-
ports they felt should be stopped
on security grounds. Evidently,
however, such a control does
not extend to so vital a war
material as rubber, which, ironi-
cally enough, is produced by
planters who go in daily peril of
attack from Moscow-inspired
and -directed terrorists.”
Also, London “Daily Mail”
editorial comment on the same
business-as-usual:
“Do you remember the mer-
chants of death? They were the
arms manufacturers who used
to sell weapons and equipment
to foreign countries in the in-
terests of trade.
“How they were denounced
and reviled by the Socialists.
Yet the Socialist Government
have themselves done exactly
the same thing.
“Against all protests they
have sent some of our finest jet-
planes and -engines to Argen-
tina, Egypt—yes, and to Russia
as well. They said this traffic
was in the interests of the export
trade.
“They can give no excuse now
which would not have applied
—London “News Chronicle.”
J. BULL IN THE CHINA SHOP.
before. But their action is more
culpable than that of the private
merchants. For they are the
Government. They needed no
warning about Russian prepara-
tions for war. They knew.”
U.N.O. in Korea.
By way of scotching the typi-
cal Kremlin-invented and Com-
munist-parroted misrepresenta-
tion of the Korean resistance as
a U.S., and not a U.N.O. affair,
here is the tally of the assist-
ance offered to U.N.O. up to
the end of last month by a total
of 28 nations combining to help
the U.S. defeat the Communist
aggressors in Korea: —
Military Assistance — Aus-
tralia : Ground troops; Aus-
tralian infantry force in Japan
to be built up to full war estab-
lishment so it can be used at
earliest possible date. Bolivia?:
30 officers of the regular army.
Canada: Recruitment of special
infantry brigade. China: 33,000
troops. Costa Rica: Volunteers
for preliminary training in the
United States. Netherlands;
Company of marines, company
of army troops (volunteer basis).
New Zealand: Special combat
unit. Philippines: Regimental
combat team of 5000 officers
and men. Thailand: Combat
team of 4000 officers and men.
Turkey: 4500 troops. United
Kingdom: Self-contained force
of troops; two battalions from
Hong Kong with artillery; one
marine commando unit. France:
Unit of ground troops.
Naval Assistance —Australia:
Two ships; one destroyer.
Canada: Three destroyers.
France: One sloop. Nether-
lands: One destroyer. New
Zealand: Two frigates. Nor-
way ; Merchant tonnage. United
Kingdom: Naval forces in
Japanese waters.
Air Assistance Australia:
One fighter squadron. Belgium:
Aid in air transport from U.S.
to Korea. Canada: One long-
range squadron, including
ground crews; complete pas-
senger facilities of Canadian
commercial air service between
Vancouver and Tokyo. China:
Twenty C 46 transports. Greece:
Six Dakota transport planes.
Union of South Africa: One
fighter squadron.
Medical Assistance Den-
mark : Medicaments; hospital
ship Jutlandia of 13,164 tons,
complete with crew, doctors and
nurses. Ethiopia ; 10,000
Ethiopian dollars for medical
supplies. India: Field-ambul-
ance units; small surgical unit
if needed. Israel: Drugs.
Philippines: Vaccines. Sweden:
Field hospital, complete with
equipment and personnel.
Other Assistance Chile:
Copper, saltpetre, other strategic
materials. Costa Rica: Ade-
quate sites for air or sea bases
and troop quarters or stations in
Costa Rica. Cuba; Essential
articles. Ecuador: Economic
support within means. Lebanon:
50,000 dollars for relief of
Korean war victims, particularly
wounded U.N. combatants.
Liberia; 10,000 dollars in
natural rubber. Nicaragua:
Foodstuffs; raw materials such
as rubber ; personnel. Panama:
Use of bases and merchant
marine for U.N. forces; farm-
land use for assistance in pro-
visioning forces, Philippines;
Copra, coconut-oil, rice, soap;
17 Sherman tanks, one tank-
destroyer. Thailand: Food-
stuffs, such as rice.
Argentina, Brazil, Colombia,
Cuba, the Dominican Republic,
Mexico, Peru, the Philippines,
the Union of South Africa,
Uruguay and Venezuela have
indicated, in addition, their wil-
lingness to consult with the uni-
fied command with respect to
the type of assistance which they
can usefully offer. Not all the
offers have been officially ac-
cepted by the unified command.
General MacArthur, for in-
stance, told the National Gov-
ernment of China that its forces
would be better used to defend
Formosa. A number of other
States which supported U.N.O.
action in Korea have informed
Secretary - General Trygve Lis
of their desire to help.
China and U.N.O.
As briefly outlined by London
“Economist,” the arguments for
the admission of Communist
China to the Security Council
which the British and Indian
Governments have for some
time been pressing upon the
other members of the council
are, firstly, that it is really ab-
surd to go on recognising Chiang
Kai-shek’s nominee as the repre-
sentative of the people of a
China from which he has been
expelled, and secondly that to
bring Mao Tse-tung out of his
lonely tete-a-tete with the Krem-
lin and into the open forum of
the nations cannot, at least, do
any harm.
“It is true,” comments the
“Economist,” “that the Chinese
representative is equipped with
a veto, which might be useful
to the Russians if they chose to
walk out once again. But it can
be taken for granted, after the
brief demonstration of what the
Security Council can do in the
absence of a Communist veto,
that by one means or another,
the veto will now be a perman-
ency in any case.
“The Security Council cannot
hope to be more than a talking-
place, and there might be some
virtue in having the Chinese
Communists there to talk to.
“In any case, the alternative,
that Chiang Kai-shek should
continue to be treated as a
Great Power, is getting more
ridiculous every day.”
Ilya in London.
Soviet propagandist Ilya
Ehrenburg having been given
full freedom to address a Com-
munist “peace” demonstration
in—of all places—Trafalgar
Square, and having been there
hailed as “the great warrior of
peace,” London Labor “Daily
Herald” commented: —
“The ‘great warrior of peace’
will be prepared to defend any
war anywhere which is con-
ducted for the advancement of
Communism, and to pretend
that any aid to the victims of
Communist aggression is in-
spired by imperialist motives.
“That is why he tried to con-
ceal from his audience in
Trafalgar-square that the
opposition to the North Korean
aggression is a United Nations
opposition, endorsed by *50


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEO KG IS AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. B. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, OEWELL PHILLIPS.
G. F. HUGHES, B, J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
f
DEFEAT THAT OU/
DEVIL DANDRUFF
WITH fuspie-
U fitewe
HAIRDRESSING
(WITH LANOLIN)
Lustre Creme —America’s
favourite Hair Dressing —
has a high quality Lanolin
base that is best for your
scalp and best for your
hair. A little Lustre Creme
—a few seconds combing
—and you’ve handsome
hair all day. It gives no
"plastered down" look!
Try Lustre Creme to-day*
• Relieves dry scalp
• Removes loose dandruff
• Gives lustre to dull,
unruly hair
• Makes hair healthy
and handsome
It’s handier in a tube
A Kay Daumit
Preparation _
■w :
is
m
- ■■■
m
LH4/U0
r Sold at all a >
Chemists & Stores £>j m
Sr
km km
fought the flame and heat.
They rescued man and child;
Undaunted in that dreadful street
Where roared the fire-god wild.
Soaked, spent with toil, but staunch and
bold.
They left the street secure.
And saved themselves from cough and cold
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Core.
;iiv t
m
ESTABLIS
r °JUey
special hospit
s
MnuM
nrn&AMUNi
!«un
Oy
m
N.t.W. DISTRIBUTORS
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
Tfie Brandy
you’ll be
proud to
oiler ...
frusaber
m
m
oFusa
CLOTH
Quality Sldis/%
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
nations, and why he misrepre-
sented it as a purely American
action.
“Ehrenburg scratched up a
stale propaganda phrase to
suggest that America seeks domi-
nation over Europe: ‘I think it
is time for the Americans to
understand that old Europe is
not their 49th State.’ This was
laughable from a man whose
Government already exercises
dominion over Poland, Hungary,
Bulgaria, Rumania and Czecho-
slovakia, and is working in-
dustriously to extend its sway
through Europe and the world.
“The ‘great warrior of peace’
says that his people don’t want
war and that ‘the British people
love peace and want peace,’ In
that he is certainly right. What
the world wonders is: Does the
Kremlin want peace? Doubt
about the Kremlin’s policies and
intentions is the supreme cause
of mankind’s present fears.
“It is a pity he speaks so little
English; otherwise he might
have submitted to some heck-
ling. It would then have been
possible to ask him how soon
the Soviet Government will per-
mit a British political leader to
stand up in the Red Square and
criticise the foreign policy of the
Kremlin.”
Since, however, the Kremlin
agent was in London per favor
of the Socialist Government
which the “Daily Herald” sup-
ports, it might just as fairly be
asked what on earth, after all,
it has to growl about.
U.S. Bound to Europe.
By way of countering the
propaganda of European Com-
munists, who see no illogicality
in charging that the United
States is both an imperialistic
Power, bent on ruling the world,
and an undependable ally who
would desert her European
friends without compunction.
N. Y. “Herald Tribune” points
out: —
“The United States has a tre-
mendous capital investment in
European recovery and defence.
She has made commitments
under the Atlantic alliance.
American troops stand in
Europe, and will continue to do
so.
“Above all is the almost uni-
versal recognition by the Ameri-
can people that these acts and
policies are not mere gestures
of goodwill but intrinsic contri-
butions to the security of the
United States. A reversal of the
American attitude toward the
Continent would not merely in-
volve the sacrifice of all the
money, goods and effort that
have been expended to enable
Western Europe to prosper and
be free; it would bring incal-
culable dangers to the Western
Hemisphere. Practical, hard-
headed considerations underlie
this country’s determination to
maintain its close collaboration
with and assistance to the
European democracies.”
U.S. Negro Increase.
Louisville “Courier-Journal”
quotes Dr. Joseph R. Houchins,
specialist in negro statistics in
the U.S. Bureau of Census, as
finding that the U.S. negro popu-
lation has grown in the last 10
years by 2.5 million and ex-
ceeds the 15,000,000 mark. It
has increased by 11.6 per cent,
in that time to a rate of 7.5 per
cent, for the white population.
Other quoted figures: The
number of negro high-school
graduates has doubled, illiteracy
has been all but ended among
negroes between 14 and 24
years. The negro’s average in-
come has nearly trebled, from
$5OO to $l4OO a year. The death-
rate has fallen from 13.9 to
11,4 per 1000. Fifty years ago
it was three times that much.
Migration has taken negroes
from farm labor to the cities
and the proportion living in the
south has fallen from 74.4 to
63.5 per cent.
In one quarter, if nowhere
else, there has recently been a
quite striking breaking-down of
racial discrimination —that is, in
the fighting services. “Man-
chester Guardian” editorially
quotes a report by a special
Presidential committee to the
effect that in the U.S. Air Force,
where segregated negro units
were usual until a year ago,
more than three-quarters of the
negroes in the force are now in
units in which black and white
serve side by side. In the Navy
at the end of the war 95 per
cent, of the negroes were serv-
ing in the catering service and
only 5 per cent, in general ser-
vice. Now the proportion in
general service has risen to 42.6
per cent. The Army, well be-
fore Korea, abolished the
quota system, which restricted
the enlistment of negroes to 10
per cent, of the whole force. The
committee’s report declared that
the rank-and-file of the forces
were “far more ready” for
equality than had been believed.
A recent special U.S. official
Statement emphasised the merit
of the U.S. negro troops’ per-
formance in Korea.
Dragnet Digest.
" Point of No Return .” —President
Truman, giving what has been
accepted in the U.S,, if not in
Moscow, as the final notice: “I am
sure that those who have it in their
power to unleash or withhold acts of
armed aggression must realise that
new recourse to aggression in the
world today might well strain to the
breaking-point the fabric of world
peace.” N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
commented on that: “The Politburo
has received notice that the Russians
cannot count indefinitely on waging
peripheral wars, with no cost in man-
power to themselves. The precise
point of no return is not set down
in so many words, but Russia is very
near to it now.’?
* * * *
Rearmament Results. —A French
correspondent of London “Time and
Tide” reports that, with rearmament,
France’s opportunity has come to
sell to the U.S.: “One hears that
American buyers have filled the order-
books of German industries and are
now filling French order-books. It
is felt that, for European countries
as a whole, American rearmament
means a great boost for European
exports, either to the U.S. itself or
to third countries selling raw materials
to the U.S.—that, in a word, it solves
the problem of dollar scarcity. Some
say that a problem of pound scarcity
may well take its place, pounds being
the currency in which so many raw
materials have to be bought.”
♦ ♦ ♦ *
Union Leaders’ Changed Role. —In
the course of a London “Sunday
Times” artide, Gilbert Beyfus, K.C.,
notes how the Attlee Socialist Govern-
ment’s policy of nationalisation and
a planned economy has had the result
that, in substance, trade-union leaders
have changed sides; “In the old days
the chief function of the trade-union
leader was to endeavor to raise the
wages and to improve the working
conditions of the members of his
union. Now, generally speaking, it
is the task of the trade-union leader
to induce the members of his union
to be satisfied with wages and condi-
tions as they are.” .
♦•■ * ♦
Star Villain. —A “New York Times”
comment on the more recent futilities
in U.N.O. suggests that television
finds there unlimited bellowdrama,
complete with villain: “Television has
introduced a new element to the
diplomacy of the United Nations.
The citizen in the television belt does
not merely read or listen to the
happenings at Lake Success: he par-
ticipates in them. Mr. Malik chal-
lenges not some impersonal and
distant council but the citizen him-
self in his own home.” Where, no
doubt, he’s greeted with loud and
prolonged hisses.
* ♦ ♦ •
Marshall-Plan Success. Summed-
up by London “Economist”: “Even
if some element of insecurity remains,
the Marshall Plan has succeeded
triumphantly in its task of consolidat-
ing European recovery. It would be
a pity if the apparent ease with which
the latest authorisation has been
passed, and the fact that it is the
third and not the first of its kind,
were to dull Europe’s sense of grati-
tude or to lead any of America’s
partners to underestimate the sus-
tained generosity that underwrites the
plan/’
* * * «
Clever Men. —In London “Daily
Mail” Sir Duff Cooper debunks a
common fallacy: “It would be well
to rid our minds of the false belief
that because a man is very clever in
one way he must of necessity be
equally clever in another. There is
no reason to suppose that the greatest
mathematician of the age is any better
fitted to give an opinion on politics
than the average bartender. In point
are superior, because he is m close
touch with human beings, and the
science, or art, of politics is the
science £ or art, * of dea * ng Wlt * men ‘
Party-line. From a “Pravda”
article by Soviet secret-police head
Beria: “Stahn has laid down a
Ky
and contradictions in the bourgeois
camp; (2) take concrete action to
unite the working classes of the
econoimcaUy advanced countries with
the national liberation movement in
the colonies and dependent nations;
(3) complete the struggle for unity of
to^ring'toj
proletariat and the small peasant?;
(5) support Soviet rule and disrupt
the interventionist machinations of
bS^rmSdAat^he^sSuS
is the base of revolutionary move-
ment in all countries.”


«Me
a
m^a
% W:
Blue Gillette
There are many pointers to a man’s character,
the way he works, the way he talks, the way he
thinks . . . but, in these days of hurry and
urgency, people are likely to take him at his
face value. That’s why most men shave with
a Blue Gillette Blade. They have proved that
Blue Gillette gives them the cleanest, closest,
most economical shaves possible.
# SO DURABLE— each
blades gives you extra shaves.
• SO SHARP they stroke
your beard away.
• SO FAMOUS they have
made the world dean shaven,
5 lor 1/8
10 lor 3/4
20 for 0/8
(in plastic dispenser)
*Good mornings 9 begin with Gillette
,9/160
For extra miles
4
I
. . . sate miles!
BUY GOODYEAR DELUXE TYRES
9MS
N9ISS
Your Goodyear Dealer know* tyre values—he knows Deluxe Tyres give
greater mileage and greater safety.
When you know that Deluxe Tyres are built with a wider. flatter
tread for better road grip ... a stronger cord body . . . huskier
shoulders . . . it's easy to see why you get extra miles safe miles
on Goodyear. See your Goodyear Deafer —• buy Goodyear tor
greater economy and safety.
Two Treads are available: Deluxe Rib, Deluxe All-Weather
MORE PEOPLE. THE WORLD OVER. RIDE ON
GOODYEAR TYRES THAN ON ANY OTHER MAKE
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“For two years I’ve been buying
the same soup-bone from my butcher
once every week.”
—Letter to Sydney daily.
Apparently it’s part of his
stock-in-trade.
•F 4* 4*
“Almost every night I arrive home
with a wad of filthy chewing-gum
adhering to the soles of my shoes.”
—Letter in Sydney “D.T:”
He should wear gum-boots.
“The rector eats a waterlily sand-
wich every day.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
He wades into it with relish.
•I* «b *b
“A judge complains that judicial
salaries are too low.”
Still, most judges manage to
put plenty away.
•b *b *b
With women’s services reform-
ing it’s time for girls to girdle
up their loins.
*b ■b* *b
“A man isn’t like a piece of fur-
niture that can be changed’ with a
coat of varnish.”
■—Sydney “D.T.”
But he can be walked on like
a doormat.
•b *b *b
“For sale, small French piano,
suitable for student, nice appearance.”
— “S. M. Herald.’''
Only chic mademoiselles need
apply. .
The Final Break.
“A woman in France claimed
damages against a dentist because
one of her false teeth into
her fiance’s hand.”
When love comes to a young
man’s heart
His mistress represents perfec-
tion,
A queen enthroned, a thing
apart,
In whom his powers of detec-
tion
Can find no flaw right from the
start.
His biased mind can’t under-
stand
That she’d engage in falsify-
ing
Those charms his doting eyes
have scanned,
Unless, as here, there’s no
denying
The evidence he has in hand.
Yet when a girl who sets her
cap
At some Jacques Bpnhomme
temperamental
Is smttten by a sad mishap
Thr o ugh carelessness of
experts dental
You’d think that love would
bridge the gap.
BERT.
An Eyrie Feeling.
“A harpy-eagle, one of the world’s
rarest birds, has been captured in
New Guinea by members of Sydney
Zoo’s bird-collecting expedition.”
For those who, inspired by
this feat, may be seized by an
uncontrollable urge to throw up
their jobs and rush up to our
near-north, eager to have the
honor of being the second to
capture an avian harpy —so
much more difficult than snaring
one of the other sort, which
merely involves making a noise
like a night-club—some hints by
an acknowledged expert may
not be amiss.
All one needs is a helicopter,
a large handkerchief, a bottle of
chloroform, a spray-gun, some
liquid glue, several tins of beef-
extract, a ship’s hawser, a tin of
pepper, a gramophone and some
records and a cocky’s cage which
has a sliding bottom.
The bird-catcher will need to
be suitably clad in case the
harpy eagle he selects happens
to be of an irascible temper.
The most effective garb is a
diver’s suit, a pair of boxing-
gloves, a tin hat and a baseball-
catcher’s face-cage. To ensure
nimbleness of foot it is best to
go barefooted, though it is pru-
dent to paint the feet the same
color as the surrounding rocks
—as this will be your only vul-
nerable part good camouflage is
essential.
In your helicopter you will be-
gin exploring spots in which you
might expect any sensible eagle
to set up in business. A favorite
spot is the extreme edge of
mountain .ledges. This is where
the element of surprise is so
"Dear Clarence: Referring to your proposal of
the sixteenth ult. ”
valuable, as most harpy-eagles
would never have heard of a
helicopter, much less seen one,
unless he has accidentally flown
into one.
A harpy’s nest may be recog-
nised immediately. It is oblong
in shape, making it immediately
distinguishable from that of the
bald-eagle, which is rectangular.
It consists of a large heap of
sticks (walking, ordinary, etc.)
bound together with pieces of
their irregular lengths of wood.
The bull bird may easily be
distinguished from the doe, the
former having only 127 feathers
on the port wing to the doe’s
128. Also, the tips of its pin-
feathers are a darker black. In
view of the doe’s slightly gentler
disposition it might be prudent
to select the female for capture ;
also, it might later lay an egg
and thus present its captor with
the first known hatching. of a
harpy-eaglet in captivity.
Having sighted your nest, set
the helicopter to the hovering
position a foot or so off the
edge of the cliff and step ashore
—that is, if the bird is absent —
taking with you all your gear.
Now hide in a near-by hollow
log if one is available ; if it isn’t,
flatten yourself —here fat men
are at somewhat of a disack-
vantage—against a rock and
wait.
Should the eagle alight with
a wild pig in each talon, wait
until he has gorged himself on
his prey. He will then naturally
be in a state of torpor. Look-
ing up blearily, he will note —he
would have been too preoccu-
pied to do so before —the big
blade of the helicopter slowly
spinning, and he will follow it
around fascinatedly until he be-
comes giddy.
Now is the time to act —and
quickly. Soak your big handker-
chief in the chloroform, holding
it well out from you to prevent
you anaesthetising yourself, and,
creeping up, clamp the handker-
chief over the bird’s beak —
here is where your boxing-
gloves come in handy. Within
a few minutes the bird will show
unmistakable signs of woozi-
ness, and as he collapses you
may leisurely stuff him into the
cage—through the sliding bot-
tom, of course; the door will
be too small. Then remove the
handkerchief and check the
bird’s pulse to see that he has
not been given too much. Just
step aboard your helicopter and
head for home.
Should the eagle prove to be
immune to chloroform you
will, of course, previously make
sure that the baseball-catcher’s
cage you are wearing is of a
mesh sufficiently fine to ensure
that the bird’s great beak can-
not penetrate it to within less
than half an inch of your face
—leap back and endeavor to
lasso it with the hawser. If
you succeed it will then be a
simple matter of swinging the
bird around by the neck —but
only slowly, for you mustn’t risk
strangling it —gradually shorten-
ing your grip until it can be
lowered, dazed but unhurt, A
stout rubber band can then be
snapped over its beak before you
push it into the cage.
Should the eagle prove too
cunning to be snared that way,
at your next attempt place
several tins of the beef-extract
around its eyrie, taking up your
position this time by burrowing
under the big sticks at the base
of its nest. When the bird re-
turns it will, while sitting on the
nest, try to puzzle out how to
get at the palatable contents of
the tins. While he is thus deeply
meditating quietly take the top
off your tin of pepper. Holding
your nose with one hand, with
the other surreptitiously throw
the pepper around the eagle. Its
’consequent paroxysm of sneez-
ing will cause its wings to lift
up and down. Wriggling out
smartly, seize the spray-gun,
which you will already have
charged with liquid glue, and
spray it under his raised wings.
As they come down again they
will be glued to the sides of its
body, thus rendering it an easy
capture.
Should the eagle unaccount-
ably evince no interest in the
beef-extract, despite the picture
of a bull on the tin —it
be a dull sort of eagle—you can
obtain the same measure of
puzzlement by simply appearing
before him and opening your
mouth at the same time as your
gramophone is playing a soprano
solo. While the bird is trying to
reconcile the two it is then an
easy matter to move in and sub-
due it by either the pepper-arid-
rubber-band or the chloroform
and-handkerchief methods.
BO.
Proof Positive.
“Puerto Rican distillers are trying
to produce a rum that will leave no
‘alcohol breath.’ ”
Oh alcohol’s a precious thing.
Beloved in shanty, home or
bar,
That bids the earth - bound
thought take wing
And makes each humble light
a star.
Alas! It also can impart
To devotees a reeking breath
Which causes them to writhe and
smart
’Neath sermonisings worse
than death.
So let us praise these blokes
who aim
To find a beverage that will
Allow a toper to be game.
Despite his wife, to drink his
fill.
And yet there surely must be
some
Mistake, for one can safely
say
That any decent O.P. rum
Is bound to take your breath
away.
D.H.E.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
r*
as
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
r a^ncHM
j&wce
me
mi
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the
orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABBEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27M), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
a
:
't /
¥
H'
t
z
6K
n
When the perfection of the setting
calls for something of
real character and unquestionable
distinction, you will find
the appropriate cigarette hears
the name of Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London in
keeping with the occasion
when only the best will do .
tins of 20
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
3/-
BensonZj Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
WO 10
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
♦OS MAJESTY THE KINO
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Ignoring the forbidding reputation
of Tattersall’s Club meetings as being
disastrous for punters, some 37,500
of the fraternity turned out in un-
seasonably hot weather at Randwick
on Saturday and added their ex-
perience to the aforesaid legend.
All the favorites went down the
drain; one second-favorite at 6 to 1
was the Only at-all-popular choice
who did the right thing.
Apart from a Three- and Four-
year-old Handicap, prospective Derby
candidates were not especially catered
for. Nevertheless a swag of them
turned out in various events, without,
however, producing anything resem-
bling an outstanding Derby trial.
The handicapper accorded the Whirl-
away colt Rumyle the honor of top-
weight for the 10-furlongs Novice,
and Rumyle justified the tribute with
a sound win. Beaten only a half-
neck, another three-year-old in Water-
front also performed creditably.
The four-year-old mare French
Rose was too good for the younger
brigade in the mile Three- and Four-
year-old Handicap; she won by a
neck from the Jolly Roger colt Gal-
lant Roger, with another three-year-
old, Auld Acquaintance, third. Unless
French Rose was revealing very con-
siderable improvement on her other
recent performances the win said
very little for those whom she beat.
Quite the best performance by a
three-year-old on the day was
Karangi’s good fourth among the
top-class animals in the 9-furlongs
Chelmsford Stakes. If Sydney does
produce the A.J.C. Derby winner it
might well be he, but the more we
see of the Sydney three-year-olds the
more probable it seems that if the
Victorian filly True Course can repro-
duce her form of last season she will
eat anything sighted to date in
Sydney. One unconsidered trifle in
Derby discussions, incidentally, is the
Brisbane colt Coniston, who is
reported likely to tackle the classic.
He is a first-class colt, though not
yet seriously tried as a stayer.
The Chelmsford Stakes added £997
to the impressive earnings of the
four-year-old Delta. Despite his
being an unknown quantity at any-
thing over seven furlongs, San
Domenico started a warm favorite
for the Chelmsford. As he proceeded
to make all the running, and appeared
to be holding them in the straight,
it looked probable that the favorite
would make it four in a row. How-
ever, first Snowstream came up to
him and then, as Karapgi shifted out
a little, Delta saw daylight, slipped
up between Snowstream and San
Domenico and scored by a half-head.
San Domenico was only three-parts
of a length away in third place, and
it would be extremely foolish to accept
the dictum of the numerous experts
who have now airily dismissed him
as being “purely a sprinter.” He
seemed to be beaten as much as any-
thing by too much racing in a very
short time. Excellent Metrop. trials
by Delta and Snowstream, while,
also, looking less forward in con-
dition, Sir Falcon and Vagabond ran
reasonable races.
Trainer S. Lamond would have fair
reason to contemplate sabotage of
the photo-finish gear. Jn successive
races, with the margin each time a
half-head, the camera’s decisions rep-
resented for patrons of his stables
the difference between £lB5O plus
winning bets and £450 minus losing
bets. Snowstream was the first of
his charges to go under, and half-an-
hour later Lamond’s other Metrop.
hope Benvolo was beaten by Indian
Chief in the 10-furlongs Spring
Handicap. Nor would Lamond be
feeling kindly towards Neville Sell-
wood, who in each case rode the
winner. Snowstream ran much the
better Metrop. trial, and Benvolo
now may be reserved for the Mel-
bourne Cup.
Usually looked upon as a fairly
good guide to Epsom prospects, the
Tramway Handicap at least produced
a new bookmakers’ favorite for the
big mile when it was won hand-
somely by Humming Top (A. Pod-
more). The winner scored by two
lengths from Rim Boy, with Persist
a close third. The four-year-old
Talking gelding Humming Top is
undoubtedly a greatly-improved gal-
loper, and there was no gainsaying
his win, but one is inclined to wonder
if a horse which has knocked up four
successive wins in a month at this
stage of the piece is going to be still
in peak condition three weeks hence.
With the Epsom in mind, Rim Boy
was a trifle disappointing, as he
seemed to weaken at the finish of
the 7-furlongs journey. Persist ran
a cracking good race, coming from
absolutely nowhere and having to
race wide round the field at that.
Carrying 81b. more than his Epsom
weight, Denali ran reasonably well,
while My Request, Phil Tress, Sir
Marcher and Freedom all shaped like
coming winners.
* * * *
Reverting to Humming Top, though
in a different connection, A.J.C.
stewards last week reported that a
swab taken from the gelding after
winning the Glenlee Handicap at
Randwick on August 26 had proved
positive. Investigating the case, the
stipes took no action against the
owner, the trainer or the horse, but
a stable-hand was outed for five
years because he “had failed to exer-
cise the proper precaution to prevent
the administration to the horse of a
drug or stimulant, due to his im-
proper conduct and condition while
in charge of the horse at the course.”
* * * *
Two of Saturday’s winners at
Moonee Valley were progeny of the
imported stallion Blank. Taken
together they illustrate about the
entire range of racing luck. One was
Chicquita, who has only twice in her
career finished out of a place and
whose success in the mile John F.
Feehan Stakes was worth £l4OO, and
brought her total stake-winnings to
£14,135. The other was Raysun,
who, now in his fourth racing reason
and haying his 35th start, won his
first race when he took out the Win-
darra Highweight first division,
thereby earning a first prize of £525,
which is precisely £25 less than he
cost as a yearling. And he had to
survive a protest at that.
By the same token it took a large
helping of racing luck of another
brand to enable Chicquita to win
the Feehan Stakes. Evidently back
to his best form, the Ajax four-year-
old Achilles tried to lead all the way,
and almost surely would have done
so had not his rider had the stiff
luck to lose a stirrup a few yards
from the post. As it was, Chicquita,
most desperately ridden by Purtell,
gained a camera decision by the
shortest of short half-heads. Achilles
may now be sent up for a crack at the
Epsom, in which, on Saturday’s
showing, he would certainly be a
consideration.
Another sire represented by a win-
ning double at Moonee Valley was
the South Australian Powerscourt,
sire, of course, of Comic Court. One
of Comic Court’s full-brothers (out
of Witty Maid) Comedy Prince made
a disappointing showing in Chic-
quita’s race, but a third member of
this pretty solid fraternity in St.
Comedy downed favorite Sefton by
a neck in the second Windarra High-
weight. Then, giving the bookies
even greater cause for rejoicing, King
Comedy (Powerscourt-Opera Prin-
cess) started at 25 to 1 to down
Kintail and Epsom Boy in the Chan-
dos Handicap.
_ * *. * *
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances); —
Cinderella Handicap: Colonel’s
Daughter, 1; Regal Gold, 2; God-
dess, 3. Parramatta Mixed: Auburn
River, 1; Crown Street, 2; Apex, 3,
Auburn Mixed: Gene Tunney, 1;
Fellowship, 2; Thunderer, 3. Rose-
hill Handicap: Vagabond, 1; Buonar-
roti Boy, 2; Conductor, 3. Theo
Marks Quality Handicap; Freedom,
1; Crag Son, 2; My Request, 3.
Rosehill Guineas: Karangi, 1; French
Cavalier, 2; Coniston, 3. Welter:
Wfranya, 1; Kymac, 2; Veiled Art, 3.
* * * *
Although French horses have been
consistently grabbing most of the
choicer plums of English racing in
recent years one classic, the St. Leger,
had evaded them. At Doncaster on
Saturday, however, the St. Leger, too,
was added to the list when Marcel
Boussac’s Scratch II defeated another
► I SPONSER
FIGHT
1 PROMOTER.
TONUS.I
K.. 0. SAV
w v -
VnCWY 'Zt
“ Tonight's winner? You're lookin' at him, pal."
French colt, yieux Manoir, by a
length. A distant third was the
English filly Sanlinea. Scratch H
also added to the remarkable list of
classic successes chalked up by Aus-
tralian jockey Rae Johnstone.
* * * *
“Pass-it”; In the Sydney Rugby
Union final on Saturday Manly beat
Easts 13-8 after having led 13-0 early
in the second half. Up to that stage
it had been all Manly. Back and
forward they looked to have the edge
on Easts in every department, and
in addition were seeking to do some-
thing constructive whenever in pos-
session. • Although Easts were win-
ning a good share of the ball their
backs lacked confidence in attack,
and resorted to kicking in the for-
lorn hope that they might gain a
scoring opportunity from a lucky
bounce of the ball. However, their
kicks were anticipated by Manly full-
back Barry, who repeatedly drove
play back whence it came, to the
utter confusion of the Easts forwards
who had followed up the kicks. By
contrast, the Manly backs were always
seeking to employ their speed to
secure openings, and in this direction
the passing and positioning of the
three inside backs were a mile better
than anything sighted in previous
matches this season. At the same
time, however, these three backs
showed a distinct weakness in defence
—a disinclination to go down on the
ball when it was on the ground and
a failure to steady play when their
team was being pressed. Unfor-
tunately Easts did not discern this
weakness until the match was vir-
tually over. Once aware of it, in
the last half-hour, their bustling tac-
tics put the Manly players off their
game and forced them into dropping
the ball and throwing loose passes,
During this period Easts scored their
eight points, and they were pressing
hard as the final bell rang.
The grand final next Saturday will
be played between Manly and
Gordon. Manly’s polished first-half
display last Saturday and the un-
impressive exhibitions given by Gor-
don in recent matches combine to
establish Manly a firm favorite for
the premiership, but the bustling type
of game that Gordon plays, taken into
account with the defensive weakness
which was seen in Manly’s inside
backs on Saturday, might well upset
the general prediction.
* * * *
’Twas a day of wind and rain as
nearly 76,000 jammed into M.C.G. for
the V.F.L. second semi-final between
Essendon and North Melbourne, won
by Essendon by three points. From
the bounce it looked as though the
Dons would run all over North; they
had the wind, clapped on the pace,
ended the quarter 5.5 to 0.3 and
slapped on another goal starting the
second quarter to make it 6.5 to 0.3.
Then North bestirred themselves,
closed up the game to stop the Dons’
open football, and, despite bad luck
in front, got to within seven points.
In the third it was more or less all-in,
the umpiring weakened and both sides
swapped hard knocks. Though the
Dons had the breeze North ran them
off their feet, and again bad luck in
kicking robbed them of the lead. It
was 9.11-8.9 for Essendon at the final
change, and North went in with their
£ars back. The Dons steadied, how-
ever, made great use of the loose
man, and, with darkness and rain on
the ground, the game, switching from
side to side, held the crowd in their
seats. With less than a minute to go
it was North, 11.11 to 10.14, and then
came a gift for Essendon. McCorkell
(North full-back) knocked a ball back
into play instead of letting it go out,
Coleman (Essendon’s star forward)
snapped it up and passed to McEwin,
who shot an easy goal to give the
Dons the match, 11.14-11.11. It’s
North and Geelong next Saturday,
Essendon to play the winner in the
“grand” final.
* * * *
“Tom”: Few, if any, school foot-
ball coaches, the world over, can have
had a better record than Brother
Henry, of Sydney’s St. Joseph’s Col-
lege. In the 29 years Brother Henry
has been in charge of the school
Rugby St. Joseph’s has gained the
Sydney G.P.S. premiership 19 times.
Of 203 competition games played
since 1922 St. Joseph’s has won 172,
as against 6 draws and 25 losses.
This year’s XV not only won the
premiership undefeated, but had its
line crossed only once. The number
of Rugby Union and Rugby League
internationals of the past 25 years
who learnt their football from
Brother Henry forms an impressive
list.


m
t w
“I consider I have saved
£lOOO in running costs and
maintenance, compared
with other makes of
tractors, since I purchased
my BULLDOG II years ago'
writes Mr. S. Shearwood of
Dooen North, Victoria.
He is just one of thousands of
owners enjoying the remarkable
economies of Bulldog Tractor
operation
a****
Send this
coupon for
our fact>full
leaflet *'How Angus
Saved £l5O on Tractor Costs'*
name
ADDRESS
State Age if
under 18
8.8.
Vis'll I®' 1
HI
ftjfcV cosvs
on
©V
1:
Th»V
nVent
nt*«*
gaSS®*
4
A
Bulldog
Chuk Oii TRAtfW
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young St., Sydney. VICTORIA; K.L.
Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 304 Spencer St., Melb. SOUTH AUST.: Elder Smith & Co. Ltd.,
27-31 Currie St., Adelaide. WESTERN AUST.: Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. Ltd., 849
William St., Perth. TASMANIA: K.L. Distributors Pty. Ltd., 233 Elizabeth St., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 121 Brunswick St.. Valley. Brisbane.
Compare Today’s
Fuel Costs
KERO COSTS
19
PER GALLON
therefore
CRUDE Oil OPERATION
SAVES 7d.
EVERY GALLON
Compare
Fuel Consumption
■■V
•m.
.
mts.
I "
'■V
Wm
does the same work as
2
GALLONS OF
KERO
therefore
CRUDE OIL FUEL GOES
A LOT FURTHER FOR
LESS COST
Compare
Acreage costs
... • * ■ ■ .
I* « *■ ■>
HmM
while
KERO TRACTOR
OPERATION COSTS
therefore
BULLDOG CRUDE OIL
TRACTORS CUT KERO
TRACTOR FUEL COSTS
IN HALF!
d
COMPARE ANNUAL TRACTOR FUEL COSTS
working a property of 500 acres 7 to 8 operations
IITEiHLEBEid
using 9875 gals.
Crude Oil at
1/2 per gallon
fd
KERO TRACTORS
f
d
fd
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Noogoora Burr.
“Agric”: It is slowly but
surely enveloping the country in
parts of central and western
Queensland, and burr in wool is
today costing Australia a lot of
money.
On the Central Highlands
some property-owners have had
to change from sheep to cattle,
as Noogoora and Bathurst burr
have choked the country; on
other properties carrying-capa-
city has dropped considerably—
on one property from 28,000 to
barely 12,000 owing exclusively
to burr.
This year the pastoral areas of
Queensland have received
abnormal rains, and on some
properties the season has pro-
duced more noxious weeds than
grass or herbage. Some enter-
prising graziers are attacking the
pest successfully with hormone
weedicides, but where the burr is
particularly thick and burr-
cutters are employed it is a
heartbreaking battle, as the next
rain brings even a bigger crop.
Zinc for Orchards.
“Myrrhee”: A deficiency of
zinc in deciduous fruit-trees has
been noticed in Harcourt, Goul-
burn Valley, Quantong and
Horsham districts (Vic.). C. R.
Brough, B.Agr.Sc., in the Vic.
“Journal of Agriculture,” de-
scribing the most obvious
symptoms, states that these
occur primarily at the tips of
the leaders and show in rosettes
of small, narrow, erect leaves,
sometimes with a faint yellow-
ing between the veins. The
trouble, says Brough, can be
easily cured by giving the tree
a thorough spraying, preferably
when dormant, though a foliage
spray is useful if applied in early
spring
For the dormant spray mix
501 b. of hydrated zinc sulphate
in lOOgal. of water, applying not
earlier than two weeks after
pruning and not later than two
weeks before bud-burst. The
foliage, much weaker and neces-
sarily not as effective as the
dormant spray, is made by mix-
ing 101 b. of zinc sulphate and
51b. of limil separately as for
Bordeaux, and then combining
in lOOgal. of water. Apply in
early spring. If the deficiency
shows up in future years, repeat
the treatment.
Concrete Cow-paths.
“M’hee”: R. McKenzie, Vic-
torian Department of Agri-
culture, said that on many Vic-
torian farms every winter acres
of land surrounding cowyards
are churned into a quagmire,
completely destroying the pas-
ture. Assessing the value of
good dairying land around £lOO
an acre, loss in production due
to reduced carrying - capacity
could amount to as much as
£5O a year.
In Gippsland and elsewhere,
said McKenzie, progressive
farmers were getting over the
trouble by making concrete
tracks, radiating from the cow-
yard. Where cow traffic was
heaviest (i.e., near the yards)
parallel tracks 10ft. apart were
laid. The width of the tracks
was about 22in., though angles
and approaches to gateways
were winged with a wider strip.
Apart from economy of
material, the reason for the
narrow track was to prevent the
boss cow turning round and
driving another cow off the
track.
Drinking-troughs were sur-
rounded with a concrete land-
ing. McKenzie regarded as sig-
nificant the fact that farmers
who had adopted the concrete-
track system were extending it.
Extra pasturage, lower herd-
wastage, reduction in labor and
improved working conditions
followed.
Don’ts with Sheepskins.
“Horseless H.”: Many sheep-
men are losing pounds annually
through improper skinning and
careless handling of sheepskins.
Skin prices over the past five
years have risen sixfold, and
bare pelts, which were formerly
valueless, are now worth up to
Bs. each. A little care pays divi-
dends.
Don’t leave the skin in a heap
overnight after killing. Sweat-
"Y' can demonstrate it over the whole joint if y' like."
ing, instead of drying, occurs,
and sweating is the first stage of
decomposition. A sweated pelt
is valueless.
Don’t score the pelt with knife-
cuts. A pelt has five layers of
skin, and, though not holed, can
be damaged by cutting through
two or three of these layers.
Don’t leave meat and exces-
sive fat on the pelt. This also
prevents drying and causes
sweating.
Don’t hang skins to dry in the
hot sun; this causes sunburns,
blisters and crinkling. Hang
the skin across a rail like a
towel from butt to neck. Wipe
the flanks down so they won’t
stick. After a fortnight turn the
skin wool-side up to shift any
moisture out of the wool. Finally
spread the skin flat on the floor
to allow the legs to dry.
Don’t forget to paint all skins
with an arsenical preparation
against weevils. Sheepskins,
properly skinned and correctly
dried, stretched and painted, can
be kept for years. In fact,
tanners aver that sheepskin pelts
improve with age.
Summer Fodders.
“Rooster”: Main summer
fodders are millet, maize and
sorghums. Japanese millet is
ideal for dairy-cows |nd sheep,
and provides early grazing. A
fine, firm seed-bed is required.
If surface soil is shallow, leave
it at that, since deep ploughing
tends to retard growth. Sow
seed no deeper than 14-in. be-
tween September and January,
according to locality, when frosts
are not likely. Obtain reliable
seed and sow at the rate of 101 b.
to 151 b. per acre, with 1001 b. of
super. Graze when 6in. high
(3in. to 4in. for sheep). Quality
deteriorates if allowed to grow
any higher. Millet makes good
hay.
Sow 281 b. of maize an acre in
rows 18in. to 30in. apart when
the soil is warm and moist, when
all danger of frost has passed.
Most useful of the sorghums
is Sudan-grass. Plant similarly
as millet, but leave it until
about a month later. Graze
when 18in. to 3ft. high and, as
with millet, eat out the paddock,
or portion of it, and allow to
recover rather than let the stock
pick over it continually.
Other large fodder-yielding
sorghums are ambercane, sacca-
line and imphee. October sow-
ings usually give best results,
but it’s a good practice to leave
one paddock for planting in
January ; with millet and Sudan-
grass a continuity of feed from
November to June is provided.
particularly if the sorghum is
cut and chaffed.
Leeches and Cows.
“Chalahn”: A wet season in
warm districts can mean trouble
with leeches. Not only do they
attach themselves to the lower
parts of cattle but they also pass
up the teat-canal of milkers
and into the milk sinus. The
affected quarter becomes swol-
len, hard and tender. Milking
by hand prolongs bleeding for
periods of four or five days, lays
the affected quarter open to
mastitis and often leads to per-
manent damage.
A simple method of reducing


Position Wanted.
EX-NAVAL MAN, Single, 23 years, wishes
to apply position Shipping Company, pref.
S.-W. PACIFIC Area. For references and
further information notify “SHIPCO,”
C/o GORDON & GOTCH, Melbourne, Vic.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM CHARLES FREY late of
25 Shirlow Street Marrickville. —TAKE
NOTICE that NANCY MAVIS PREY has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2938 of
1950 on the ground of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
of the Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 17th November 1950 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from EDWARD R. M. NEWTON & SON,
Solicitors, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROY RONALD CARTHEW late of
Heme Bay.—TAKE NOTICE that JOAN
CYNTHIA CARTHEW has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3174 of 1950 on the
grounds of your desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 13th November 1950 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 164
Phillip Street, Sydney—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE MORGAN REES late of
Petersham.—TAKE NOTICE that ELLEN
GERTRUDE ISOBEL BEES has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 417 of 1950 on
the grounds of your desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 17th November 1950 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from ALBERT G. KENOH & SON,
Solicitors, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.— In Divorce.
TO IVY MAY REID whost last known
address was 40 Patrick Street Hobart in
Tasmania and whose present address is
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that a Peti-
tion has been filed in this Court endorsed
with a Notice to you to appear and answer
the charges in the Petition of DOUGLAS
HUON REID of S 3 Melville Street Hobart
in Tasmania Waterside Worker praying
for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion In default of your
so appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition proved
and pronounce judgment in respect thereto
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for
the purposes aforesaid within thirty days
after the date of this publication an
appearance must be entered at the Prin-
cipal Registry of the Supreme Court of
Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart.—
J. R. REX, Principal Registrar. JOHN-
SON MITCHELL & LAUGHTON, 38 Eliza-
beth Street, Hobart, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
Milestones in our Notional Progress,,, (4)
f
TRANSPORTATION
«d COMMUNICATION
&
i/lA-''
i /
«/■
rV7>x
In 1853 the first Cobb & Co.
coach route was opened, soon
followed by the first railway.
In 1854 Melbourne was linked
with Williamstown by telegraph
and 1872 marked the construc-
tion of the first overland tele-
graph from Adelaide to Dar-
win. To-day, Australia has a
vast telegraphic system, over
27,000 miles of railways and un-
surpassed aerial services.
Vast distances have not been
the least of our National diffi-
culties and Ronaldson-Tippett
are proud of the many ways in
which their electrical equip-
ment and engines, supplied to
Government Departments and
private enterpriie, are helping
to conquer distance in the in-
terests of National Progress.
ROHALOSOH BROS&TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria. Melbourne Office: 628 Bourke
St. N.S.W. Distbrs.: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd., Fraser House, 5
42 Bridge St., Sydney. Q’land Distbrs.: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.) ~
Ltd., Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
THE
EASIEST
way lo
CASTRATE
CALVES!
EUSTRATOR
REGD. TRADE MARK
CASTRATOR & TAILER
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
1
If
“Phenovis" Worm Remedy
Machine time »
y/
/
///'a
>//
KEEP IT
HANDY—
THE NEW
IMPROVED
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
dfd
fd
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-81SI
the swelling and the incidence
of mastitis is based on use of
the milking-machine. Wash the
cow’s udder in the normal way
and strip the affected quarter
until all the leeches and most
of the blood are removed and
let-down of the milk takes
place. Apply the teat-cups and
watch the sight-bowl carefully,
and as soon as blood appears
again remove the teat-cups.
By next milking it will be
found that the swelling has
almost disappeared, and mastitis
seldom occurs. If any trace of
mastitis does appear give a peni-
cillin injection immediately. Any
blood in the milk is removed by
the separator, but in the case of
a whole-milk supplier it is ad-
visable to use a vacuum milking-
bucket for the first milking only.
The vacuum in the teat-cup will
often help to shift a stubborn
leech, and its sucking action
promotes bleeding temporarily
to remove any poison injected
by the leech, helps healing and
reduces the swelling.
Checking Mistletoe.
“He-Ne”; Recent experiments
by the N.S.W. Forestry Commis-
sion has proved the mistletoe
can be controlled by the use of
hormone sprays. Major distri-
bution of mistletoe is along road-
ways and in partly-cleared areas
and along watercourses. In
virgin or managed forests it is
no problem. Mistletoe kills trees
by substituting its own foliage
for that of the tree, reports D. T.
Hartigan, of the commission,
and kills by starvation.
The active principle for mis-
tletoe control is the sodium salt
2, 4-D with suitable stickers and
hygroscopic agents. Details of
alternate formulae are obtainable
from the commission. It has
been discovered that mistletoe
of the species commonly met
around Sydney is susceptible to
the chemical if sprayed around
November and December, the
eucalypt hosts being not nearly
so susceptible. Thus a differen-
tial effect is obtained which
allows indiscriminate spraying
of eucalypt and mistletoe, with
consequent elimination of the
pest without damage to the tree.
The chemical is non-inflam-
mable, non-corrosive and non-
toxic to animals. The effect of
the spraying is not immediate,
and death of the mistletoe may
not occur until the following
winter. Tests are being con-
ducted on mistletoe on pine,
kurrajongs and fruit-trees.
Anthrax.
“Jonman”: Acutely infec-
tious, anthrax is fatal in order of
susceptibility to sheep, cattle,
horses, man, pigs and dogs. Cats
and fowls are practically im-
mune. Anthrax can occur any-
where.
Sheep and cattle generally
contract it through feeding over
contaminated country and swal-
lowing the spores. The spores
remain active for years due to
their resistance to heat and cold.
When swallowed, on reaching
the bloodstream they elongate
and divide into two, each divi-
sion again divides and so on
until death quickly occurs be-
cause of the organisms in the
blood and the toxins they pro-
duce.
Infection can also occur via
cuts, scratches and wounds.
Pigs and dogs are usually in-
fected from eating infected
flesh.
Man is infected through skin
wounds when handling diseased
carcasses. When death occurs
the spores cease to multiply and
die unless they are exposed to
air.
If the carcass is opened the
organisms escape by being
washed away by rain, blown or
carried by flies.
Symptoms in sheep are not
often noticed, but a carcass with
blood coming from mouth and
anus should be viewed with sus-
picion. A sheep may be noticed
to have a high fever, not feed-
ing, dull and generally weak.
Cattle exhibit these symptoms,
but horses ate sick for several
days with a fever, depression,
not eating, acute swellings of
the abdomen and chest. Pigs
exhibit swellings of the throat
and difficult breathing and swal-
lowing.
Owing to the rapid nature of
the disease, treatment in ani-
mals is almost useless. Protec-
tive vaccine can be obtained to
immunise the rest of the herd.
All carcasses should be disposed
of by burning or burying on the
spot to a minimum depth of
6ft. If the carcass has been
moved chloride of lime or a
thick layer of unslaked lime
should be placed over the
ground. See that the carcass is
not opened, as this spreads the
germs. Anthrax is a notifiable
disease.
Hormones and Lantana.
“W. Court”: So far hor-
mones have not been ( entirely
successful against lantana on the
Queensland coast, and to be
sure of a good kill with
methoxone or a sodium salt of
2, 4-D it has been found neces-
sary to cut the lantana and
spray the hormone on the fol-
lowing ratoon growth when it is
a few weeks old.
The improved hormone killers
of the 2,4, 5-T type have been
found more effective than the
ordinary 2, 4-D, but some cut-
ting is still necessary, especially
where stands are thick.
Knapsack sprays are useful
for tackling lantana on slopes,
and power-sprays fitted with
two hoses, each with one or two
nozzles, are most suitable for
spraying large belts of lantana on
the flats,
Pig-grazing.
“My”: On farms where there
is land enough, grazing has
much to commend it. One of
its best features is that pigs can
be moved from pasture to pas-
ture, giving vacated paddocks a
chance to freshen.
For a brood sow and her
progeny allow at least half an
acre; arrange subdivisions so
that there will always be some
paddocks unstocked and fresh-
ening after the previous tenants ;
place the youngest pigs on the
cleanest ground and build
shelter-sheds and troughs on
skids for ready transfer to fresh
sites before the surrounding land
becomes fouled.
To preserve pastures from
pigrooting, put a wire in the
snout or cut off the cartilaginous
tip of the nose when the piglets
are a month old.
Care of Cutting-tools.
“Metax”: It pays if cutting-
tools are touched up as soon as
the edges show signs of dull-
ness. The touching-up gear
should be part of the visible
equipment of the tool-house or
the temptation to postpone is
likely to win the day. A rea-
sonably good oilstone and some
thin oil is all that is needed for
keen-edged wood-tools such as
chisels and plane-irons, and a
rough stone or smooth, flat file
will serve for axes.
Rabbits or Birds?
“Graz”: Those phosphorous-
pollard baits for rabbits now be-
ing used in New Zealand (B.
31/8/’49) are a menace. Fifty
years ago Australian landholders
dropped millions of similar baits
into trails made by shares on
poison-carts. The Enzedders
will no more achieve “complete
destruction” by dropping such
baits from planes than we did
by using the
Phosphorised-pollard baits kill
thousands of birds. In a couple
of years the New Zealanders
will find a depletion of bird life
and the bunnies as thick as ever.
Hints for the Farm.
“Girrawheen”: Every poultry-
farm should have an incinera-
tor. It is much more sanitary to
burn dead fowls and chicks, old
bones, feathers and such rub-
bish than to throw them on the
manure-heap, where they en-
courage rats and flies.
* “E.M.R.”: Pullets must be
well fed during the first eight
weeks of life if large eggs are
to be produced during laying
periods. Causes of small eggs
are poor feeding and inherited
small-eggness. To avoid the
latter never hatch birds from
small eggs.
“Sundowner”: Unless carrots
are treated with regular spray-
ings or dustings of D.D.T.-nico-
tine or H.E.T.P. compounds
almost certain total or partial
failures due to aphis-attack can
be expected. Victorian agricul-
tural experts say this is particu-
larly likely to occur with spring-
grown crops. They advise
treatment from the time plants
come through the ground, fol-
lowed thereafter at three-weekly
intervals.
“Big Billy”; Asparagus is
easy to cultivate. Prepare well-
manured beds in the spring.
Fertilisers are important. Add
|lb. of lime to the square yard
in acid soils. Helpful in loamy
soils is an application of super.,
ammonia and potash (5-1-1) at
4oz. to the square yard. Sandy
soils would do better with a
3-1-1 ratio.
“M.”: For cabbage white-
butterfly and the night-flying
moth dust all members of the
brassica family with a lead
arsenate 50 per cent, powder, or
spray with 2oz. of powder in
4gal. of water. Repeat every 10
days.
“Taswegian”: Bending metal
pipes without spoiling them by
squashing is easy if you fill them
with sand and heat them, when
they can be bent as solid rod.
Plug one end with a tapered
wooden plug, fill with sand, tap-
ping the pipe on end to get the
sand packed in solidly, leave an
inch or so at the end empty and
plug with another tapered piece
of wood or with a number of
thinner pieces. It is important
to make sure that the sand is
clean and thoroughly dry—
steam from damp sand may
blow out the plugs or even burst
the pipe.
“Wilco”: Dirty yards filled
with wet manure harbor the
tetanus bacillus (B. 16/8/’5O).
The germ can only develop
when it gets into a deep or punc-
tured wound. A horse with a
stake-wound should be kept
away from all wet manure.
When cleaning out dirty yards
safeguard yourself by wearing
strong boots.


m
us®
if
«0* o VS
DIS
a
m
M 3
nsws».
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE VI
Tanqueray Gordon and Co. Ltd.
QtUt/tfa
&ic4rmJL€t/ta>&e
TTMV\cJr)§ SpWQS
suopioi)
f
rv
HOTEL METROPOLE
Beni, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONE Y RATES:
Single Booms—
From 9/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 18/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“ METROPOLE ”
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
m*
111
i
fill
lIP
|;||
ill
xml
IWII
W 4
SM
mi*
1
m
....
mm
available now . • •
modern appliances
for AniiiViMi
This hand drill will prove a boon to the
handy man. Suitable for woodwork, light
metal work and plastic work, this drill is
compact, light, with an easy grip switch.
« 32-volt D.C. or 240-voit A.C.
QUIRK’S Electric Machine Motor
Every woman will appreciate this time and labour saver.
Simple and easy to operate, Quirk's Electric Machine
Motor can be easily attached to your old treadle machine
and will give years of speedy reliable service. Available
In 32. 50, 110 and 240 volts.
QUIRK’S
ELECTRIC DRILL
No water
needed, ft
nearest pi
able in 32,
No water or shaving cream is
needed, fust plug into your
nearest power point. Avail-
able in 32. 110 and 240 volts.
r QUIRK’S ELECTRIC
DRY SHAVER
I QUIRK’S VICTORY LIGHT CO.
1 229 CASTLEREA6H ST., SYDNEY . ■ PHONE M 3114
■■V.Vi'.'.'i
KM.
Established 1808 in Reign of,
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas’* has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
F. Y. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institution* throughout Australia
jACKSOIH 4
OSUIUV4K
PHOTO, «,,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co,
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jaxul” window face envelopes
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
"NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
"jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Beady Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, In 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/*
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write; MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE
FARM.”—A thousand ways of im-
proving yields. Published by me
Bulletin.” Price 1 /-.
WHEN he got down to creek-
level and crossed the swing-
bridge the bush changed
character. Taro grew above the
bank; and in the air was the
faint sweet scent of gora-gora,
the ginger-lily, which stood in
clumps eight feet high. The
bush was more tangled and
diverse, broken here and there
by clumps of the giant bamboo,
now whispering in the light
breeze. The creepers reached
down into the water of the
creek, and there were stirrings
amongst the leaves. The bush
grew darker, and Sommers kept
his flashlight on constantly;
more acutely conscious with
every moment of the noises of
the night.
But there’s no noise in the
bush that says “Master,”
It was soft and sibilant. But
it was an order, not a supplica-
tion. Sommers swung in his
tracks, and played the flashlight
along the way he had come.
His revolver had leapt to his
hand. He slipped the safety-
catch off and fingered the
trigger, feeling comfort in it;
almost fondling it, as a baby
will fondle fur.
Now the sound was ahead of
him. Soft yet sharp. And in the
same ... or in another voice?
He swung again, and this time
he fancied he saw the movement
of a shadow and fired immedi-
ately. The night noises ceased,
and to the right of him a voice
said “Master.”
He started to walk on down
the track, and a blunt-headed
arrow took the flashlight from
his hand. He yelled and swung
and shot, then scrambled franti-
cally for the flashlight.
And as he picked it up a voice
in front of him said “Master.”
He fired three shots quickly
then. But it must have been half
an hour before he fired the last.
He was at screaming-pitch then.
And all that answered him was
the same whisper, “Master.”
But as the last shot belted into
a tree-trunk he went down under
a rush of soft brown bodies.
HE went down and he went
out. He could not have been
out for long: but when he came
to he was in a strange clearing.
It did not lie on the track, and
he had never seen it before.
There was a small fire burn-
ing in the clearing, and there
were men about him, and some
carried torches of the fronds of
coconut-palms. What men they
were he didn’t know. They
wore painted bark-masks over
their faces, and little else. They
were armed and ornamented,
and they were silent.
He himself was naked, and
unmarked. There was not a
stitch of his clothes anywhere ;
nor did anyone have his revolver
or his flashlight, so far as he
could see.
He didn’t take much stock of
his situation, because he was in
an excess of terror and because
the moment that his eyes opened
the voices began.
This time they said, “Dance,
master.”
They were the same voices,
and they came at him the same
way as they had in the dark,
now from this side of the circle,
now from that. His arms were
still bound, and he hesitated.
An arrow thudded into the
ground by his foot, and from
the other side of the circle a
voice said “Dance, master.”
He lifted his foot, and danced
in the native way, but shuffling.
And the natives danced; and
when he hesitated and slowed
down they said, “Dance, master,”
but otherwise they were silent.
There was a throbbing that he
thought was drums, but it
seemed more a vibration than a
sound. And he danced—and
danced.
In the dance from time to
time they practised indignities
on him, of several kinds. But
he had lost all cohesion in his
mind. He couldn’t even promise
revenge to himself, because
somehow he knew there would
be no revenge.
The indignities and the up-
surge of his feelings tired him,
and he felt consciousness leaving
him as he toppled. But when
he came back to life again he
was on his feet. And his feet
were dancing. Some time later
he discovered that his arms were
not bound.
The tempo of the dance was
terrific. He was caught up in it.
But from time to time great
waves of blackness seemed to
engulf him, sometimes not quite,
and sometimes utterly.
| r was from one of these black-
-1 outs that he awoke to find
himself in the village street.
There was no dance, no drum-
beat. He was staggering like a
man dying of thirst in a desert,
or as such a man is pictured,
and it was a dead and unreal
world.
He couldn’t even think it was
the village. The thing had the
qualities of a nightmare. There
was no sound at all, a complete
and utter absence of sound.
There was sight, unreal vision
which seemed to have no depth.
But there was no sound.
The boys were standing in
groups, looking at him; and
they looked as though they, too,
were horrified.
He went up to the nearest
group to speak to them. He did
speak, but his tongue was
motionless in his mouth, and no
sound came. He put his hand
on the nearest man’s chest, and it
was warm and living. The man
was shrinking back and he
slapped the chest hard, but the
slap gave no sound.
He wandered from one group
to another. He stopped still and
looked at himself. He was naked
still. His feet were bleeding, not
badly. His hands and wrists
and shoulders and his belly were
all scratched, and here and there
bleeding slightly. These were all
wounds from the creepers in the
bush. Except for them he had
no mark on him.
Yet he was a living pain: dead-
tired and racked with pain. He
was not sure that he could re-
member the village. He was not
sure that he was in it; or that
it was not nightmare. He
couldn’t really remember him-
self: who he was, or what he
did. He could remember there
was something he wanted in this
silent village, and he staggered
on, aimlessly, in circles.
Then he saw the church, reel-
ing on its piles by the flower-
bordered road, and it reminded
him of something, and he went
inside.
It was there that Eve May-
brick found him: a zombie,
another Tombo, one of the walk-
ing dead.
“Six days,” she thought. “I’ve
got six days.”
Not once did it occur to her
that that was an abnegation of
her faith. She sent a messenger
after May brick; but he would
be already on his return by the
time the messenger reached him.
And she sent another down the
valley to the settlement; but that
was a week’s walk.
Maybrick came back in two
more days.
As it happened, Sommers
didn’t have six days. He had
little more than three. After
Maybrick came back he prayed
for Sommers, That was all he
could do. And on the follow-
ing night at midnight Sommers
dial.
THE Maybricks are good
religious people who hold to
their faith, but at their mission
they do not walk about in the
dark of the moon. And they
avoid the subject of witchcraft.
For in all the three days
Sommers didn’t speak. So he
couldn’t tell them of the little
brown men in the masks who
ruled the dark nights.
And not even he knew of the
sago spines the two-inch
needles administered mercifully
under the anaesthetic of exhaus-
tion. He was buried with them
—two in his ears that had pierced
his eardrums so he couldn’t
hear; two through the base of
his tongue so he couldn’t eat,
couldn’t talk ; and two under the
scratched skin of his belly so
that he would die within a week.


COARDX
PROTECTA J
si*rd- Rtgijiuu
Bailable for every type of boslneas II record*
•II Sale*. Credits. Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing Id appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltct
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing <igrate—
SYDNEY /
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE .
f*UTB .
C. Pcnfold A Co. rij. Ltd.
Norman Bros. Ply. Ltd.
Vardon A Sens Ltd,
Onlsl fisoh U. ai
d
Missing Friend.
TO ELIZABETH PALATIANOS formerly
of Cardigan Street Carlton and Mildura
in the State of Victoria Married Woman
but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your Husband GEORGE
PALATIANOS of 12 Bellerina Street
Geelong in the said State Labourer has
instituted in the High Court of Australia
at Melbourne an Appeal against the order
of the Supreme Court of Victoria dated
the Bth day of August 1950 dismissing
his Appeal from the order of His Honor
Mr. Justice Smith dismissing his Petition
for dissolution of Marriage on the ground
of desertion AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that by an order of the said
High Court the- Appellant was given
liberty to insert this advertisement in-
stead of serving a notice personally.—
PHILIP R. FRASER, Solicitor for the
Applicant, Geelong.
here is your opportunity to
ENLIST WITH RANK
in the
AUSTRALIAN REGULAR ARMY
Maximum age far enlistment, 43 years
vlv f"’y> .• .
Study these
advan tnyps
and ,j
eve# quiekly
• Salaries in accordance with rank.
> -c.. Initial engagement 6 years. \
-engagement. :
wMsam
mmmm
. gratuity o||
m service, or
• .. 9sw
service* or
• ' £360 gratuity oh com
■■■
at 40 or over, after 20 years service.
Also normal enlistment with «** without a trade
Call end have a talk with the Officer-In-Charge at your nearest Army Training Depot,
or tend the coupon below to Army Command Headquarters In your capital city for
further details of enlistment In the A.R.A, with rank.
NAME. HtlltlOlll RANK..IIUI
ADDRESS,
fdf
NCOV2/lU/80
Wants.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
To buy copy of King’s Cross Call-
ing: will pay 10s. for copy.—49lo.
Information Sought.
Some particulars concerning yellow
stringybark ( Eucalyptus muelleriana) ?
A pale yellow-brown, fairly close-
textured timber with the grain usually
straight, but sometimes® interlocked,
it shows some tendency to end check,
but generally seasons well. It is free-
working, and has a reputation for
great durability in the ground. It is
used chiefly for general building pur-
poses, flooring, weatherboards, bridge
work, poles and fence-posts, piles,
sleepers, cross-arms and shipbuilding.
Grows to a large tree, 60ft. to 150 ft.
high and 9ft. in girth, occurring in
southern New South Wales and the
Black Downs Tableland, Queensland.
♦ * * *
Who may enter for the Golden
Tea Pot award, to be awarded to the
Australian who drinks the most cups
of tea per day, and from where are
particulars of the contest obtainable?
Any person is eligible to enter
merely by writing to the Information
Officer, Tea Bureau, 31 Macquarie-
place, Sydney, and obtaining a
statutory-declaration entry form. On
this form, which must be witnessed
by a justice of the peace, the con-
testant will declare the number of
cups of tea that he or she drinks
each day. Contestants will be judged
on their declarations until about 50
finalists have been selected, and their
claims will be personally investigated
by Tea Bureau officials.
♦ * * *
Where and when was Sam Langford
born ? Did Langford ever win a
world championship or any other
title?
He was born at Weymouth, Nova
Scotia, on March 4, 1886. General
opinion was that Langford would
defeat Jack Johnson for the world’s
heavyweight championship when John-
son held that title, but Johnson
refused to fight Langford under any
circumstances. Langford beat Sam
McVea for the Australian heavyweight
championship at Sydney Stadium on
April 8, 1912, and did not lose that
title before he returned to America
in 1913. Langford also won the
Spanish heavyweight championship
from Andres Balsas at Mexico City
on April 7, 1923.
* * * ♦
How many etchings may be printed
off an etched plate, and what denotes
an original etching?
Depends upon how the plate is
bitten. If a large number of prints
is desired the plate is usually steel-
faced, and from this thousands of
proofs may be printed. Etchings are
issued in numbered editions, usually
of from 30 to 100. The artist declares
the number of the edition to be
printed from any plate and keeps a
register of proofs sold, and when the
declared number is sold the plate is
destroyed. An original is distin-
guished by the artist’s signature on
the margin of the proof on the right-
hand side and the edition number on
the left.
* * * *
By what means is the distance of
stars from the earth estimated?
The most direct method is by
tnangulation. The star is observed
first from one side and then from the
other of the earth’s orbit, and its
minute apparent movement in space
affords a clue as to its distance. The
spectroscope is also used for such
computations, and in some cases,
where it has been possible to ascertain
the rate of motion through space
of a group of stars, that knowledge
is made the basis of a calculation of
distance. The periodic variations in
brightness of certain classes of
variable stars also afford clues to
distance.
Brief Answers.
S.P.M.: The legal procedure for
change of name is by deed-poll, a
single declaration of the intention to
make the proposed change and by
advertisement of the fact. Any
solicitor would, for a small fee, draw
up such a deed. It would require to
be registered by the Registrar of
Births... .C.L.L.: “Rheumatism” is
a term loosely applied to several
varieties of arthritis. Without diag-
nosis it is impossible to suggest treat-
ment F.E.N.: Addresses of con-
tributors cannot be furnished, but
any letter care of this office will
be forwarded.... D.H.: The poem
Ihe Gasometer” was written by
Adam McCay, and appeared in The
Bulletin of September 17, 1914....
H.8.P.: In flowing water the public
has a right to fish in the centre of
the stream, but must not trespass on
either side... .N.W.E.: On November
3, 1927, the Union S.S. Co. steamer
Tahiti (7878 tons) and the Sydney
ferry Greycliffe (133 tons) collided
off Bradley’s Head, Sydney Harbor,
resulting in the sinking of the Grey-
cliffe and a loss of 42 lives,...
T.H.K.: Tambaroora means “home
of the ibis”... .D.M.: Write Royal
Society for the Welfare of Mothers
and Babies, Scottish House, 19
Bridge-street, Sydney... .L.S.: Mac-
millan and Co., Ltd., St. Martin’s-
street, London, W.C.2... .K.M.:
Urqnquinty is a N.S.W. abo. place-
name meaning “plenty of rain,”
Kawana is a Q’land abo. place-name
meaning “flowers” H.M.: Mt.
Easton (Vic.) is between Woods Point
and Moe, and lies from Walhalla
west of Aberfeldy J. 8.: There is
no weedfcide which can be used that
will kill prairie-grass and not affect
the couch or the garden plants.
Thickening up the couch by the use
of fertilisers should assist in crowding
out the prairie-grass. Write N.S.W.
Agriculture Dept, for pamphlet
“Lawns, Greens and Playing Fields.”
M.S.: (1) Brazil. (2) Sub-tropical.
(3) Yes, in South Africa and Kenya.
(4) Grown by individuals, but never
been consistently placed before the
public supported by advertising and
publicity.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor,
C.T.M.: Somewhere between hope-
lessness and dull mediocrity ... .R.W.:
Must you go to American pulp-
magazines for your ideas?... .C.H.T.;
Can’t make head or tail out of that
mix-up.... WA.S.: You have still to
learn what to put in and what to
leave opt... .P. 8.: Your muse seems
to be on strike... .L.O’S.: Where did
you excavate that skeleton? S.T.D.:
No handout for the philosophical
swagman, no bone for his faithful dog.
H.J.N.: “I’m.a very raw novice.”
We know... .8.H.: Christmas-card
verses... .E.R.K.: “Drama Unfolded”
folded and returned... .C.F.F.:
Faint gleam of promise, but you have
a long journey ahead of y0u....
T.8.H.: Melbourne Cup story didn’t
reach the starter... .E.W.: An unin-
spiring collection of platitudes....
H.W.A.: A chuckle here and there,
but not enough... .F.L.: It may have
cheered the family circle, but they
appeared very dull to us J.M.C.:
ITiey increased the reject pile by half-
an-inch... .EA.H.; Send it to the
lady 8.P.: A stamp will bail that
one out LJ.: Resignedly awaiting
the next half-dozen... .N.R.: You
have a remarkable gift for writing
voluminously about nothing....
... .Bellerive: A fine tribute:
G.H.M.: Tied a bag of quartz around
your demented prospector and
dropped him down the office well.
S.S.: Think twice before you
“perpetrate” any more G.E.8.:
Managed to struggle through it, but
that was all 8.W.5.: Not The
Bulletin, but some temperance paper
would jump at it P.R.V.: You’re
still plodding along the same old
gr00ve....H.R.N.: Grim drama of
prospectors duelling over maiden
“dead these 50 weary years” is not
for us F.G.L.: Hero arrives in
lonely valley, rids the little farm of
cattle-duffers and a mortgage, saves
the owner from drowning and weds
his daughter 1 Out! S.F.: Gave
it up when the damsel began “weep-
ing on the golden sands to the accom-
paniment of the sighing of the waves.”
... .E. 8.: Plunged us deep in gloom.
....N.F.L.: You’re still wandering
in a wilderness of words... .C.C.:
Not overjoyed with the prospect of
a dozen more in that vein.... J.T.G.:
“Where is my runaway girl?” She
left here immediately after her arrival.
....C.0’8.: Build yourself a pulpit.
F.C.: Yes, he makes pleasant
light reading, but it’s a fatal mistake
to try to copy him P.S.P.: Don’t
actually object to covering letters, but
at least make them shorter than the
yarn L.S.W.: “Treasure Ship”
never saw port... .K.V.M.: The
office cat had convulsions after reading
that story about the talking mouse.
....N.S.: Your “attack” developed
into a disorderly retreat... .8.C.R.:
Just as well this time you “care not
for silver or g01d”... .K.C.D.: Stick
to autograph albums E.M.: Your
friends have been pulling your leg.
TO MABLE STARK.
Mable Stark, former renowned picture
actress of the silent screen, when well
past her prime, took up the profession of
an animal tamer with a circus and was
seriously maimed by a tiger cub.
At a circus show
In a daredevil way
Mable Stark performed
With beasts of prey.
Though said to be
Over sixty years old.
She starred at the circus
A daring and bold-.
Despite surgical aid
In a hospital ward
She’d venture again
Of her own accord.
In former years of
The silent screen
Mable Stark in big
Pictures was seen.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Wharfies and Unionism
The Press lately reported 78 ships idle
in Sydney, while waterside workers de-
bated whether they would admit addi-
tional members to their union. Later
reports included allegations that those
admitted were hand-picked for their
politics.
All that lends point to a more general
question. Waterside work is only one
of several industries in which we may
fairly ask whether, under modern Aus-
tralian conditions, unions have any moral
right to refuse to admit persons qualified
by ability and character to work at the
industry. When non-unionists and
unionists could work freely alongside one
another, unions undoubtedly had that
right; but, now that they have achieved
compulsory unionism de facto, if not de
jure, and are powerful privileged bodies
with numerous legal rights conceded by
the community, they can no longer claim
that right when it conflicts with their
responsibilities to individuals and to the
community.
A man’s right to work at his chosen
calling if he is suitable for it is funda-
mental in a free democracy, and he
should not be liable to be deprived of it
by any self-interested section. Direction
of manpower in peace-time is abhorrent
in any circumstances; it is doubly so
when exercised by an unrepresentative
and irresponsible minority. Even* the
stoutest Labor-party man should agree on
that —isn’t it Labor policy to socialise
monopolies that are not exercised in the
public interest? And it is certainly not
in the public interest to sabotage industry
and increase costs by grossly delaying
shipping or other activities by withhold-
ing adequate labor. —A. B. D. (N.S.W-)*
Rents
“K.R.’s” (B. 23/8/’5O) is the typical
view of the average tenant —a view which
disregards the merits and justice of the
owners’ case and overlooks the possi-
bilities inherent in the continued pegging
of rents at 1939 levels. From his ex-
planation that he occupies a single room
at a rental far above 1939 figures it may
well be that his argument gives point to
the contention that owners are not the
real culprits in most cases of rack-rent-
ing, but are, indeed, the victims —victims
of their tenants, who make huge profits
out of sub-lettings, evade all the responsi-
bilities of landlords and who cannot —
from a practicable point of view, at any
rate —be interfered with.
The present legislation fosters that
kind of exploitation, and only drastic
alteration to restore to owners an abso-
lute right to approve or disapprove of
assignments, sub-lettings or transfers of
tenancies will overcome the position.
Under tfle present law an owner has no
right to refuse to consent to such a part-
ing with possession—the operation of
Section 133 ( b ) of the Conveyancing Act
governs that —even though he or a mem-
ber of his family is in urgent need of
the property for their own use. As long
as such a law exists tenants will be able
to charge what they like for the tenancies
of all sorts of accommodation, from
cellars to attics.
Anyway, I did not suggest that rents
should be permitted to rise like clothing
prices. I recommended “controlled in-
crease.” An open go would be abused
by some landlords. Control is essential,
but it does not mean pegging income to
what it was 11 years ago. A reasonable
increase should be permitted, and, more-
over, owners should have the right to
pass on increases in rates, water-rates,
etc., as they occur. In England tenants
are called upon to pay rates, it having
been held in the courts that the persons
enjoying the services are the logical per-
sons to pay for them. Here rates are
taken into account by the Fair Rents
Boards when assessing rents, but rates
vary frequently, and it is manifestly im-
possible for every owner to go to the
Fair Rents Court for a variation of rent
each time his rates go up.
I don’t forget that rent is “an unvary-
ing weekly commitment.” That is part
of my argument. Rents have not varied,
while all outgoings over the past 11
years are still varying—upwards. Ser-
vices such as water, gas, drainage, etc.,
and items like roofing and guttering wear
The contributor placed first is paid
4R per line; all others 2£d. per line.
out, and lately the rate of wear has been
more rapid because of the enforced war-
time neglect when paint and other
materials as well as labor were unpro-
curable. Replacement of any one item
at today’s costs can eat up a whole year’s
rent of an ordinary suburban cottage.
Anyway, if the Housing Commission
—the State Government, in other words
■—feels that one-fifth of a man’s income
is a fair thing for him to pay out in rent,
why shouldn’t the private property-
owner be dealt with a little more
liberally? The fact that they are not’
permitted to charge rents on a basis com-
parable with the Housing Commission
is one big reason why tenants still pre-
fer to pay their rents to private owners.
—Jindivick (N.S.W.).
“Jindivick’s” plea for justice for
landlords (B. 16/8/’5O) contains much
that calls for serious consideration, but
when he says “These people invested in
real-estate during their working lives in
the belief that, by taking steps to pro-
vide for their old age, they were acting
as good citizens,” that’s balderdash, A
stray one or two might have done so,
but most provided for their old age
simply and solely in order to provide for
their old age.— TasWegian (Tas.).
Erosion
“Franson” (B. 2/ 8/ ’5O), in his reassur-
ing analysis of the problem of soil-
erosion, misses the point completely. A
distinction must be made between geo-
logical erosion—in which the removal
of soil is compensated for by a similar
rate of soil-formation through weather-
ing of the parent rock —and the violent
changes caused by man upsetting this
equilibrium.
It is this man-made erosion which is
threatening our existence. Anyone who
knows the western districts of N. S.
Wales could show “F.” great scald areas
of barren ground from which only the
top inch or so of soil has been removed.
These areas, many of which carried a
good pasture cover a decade ago, have
“Sorry, madam —the last pair of sheets have just gone.”
shown no significant recovery, even
during the past good seasons.
Any attempt to delude ourselves that
erosion is not a most serious threat to
our existence is sheer folly, and the
sooner we realise it the sooner will we
be placing our whole economy on a
stable foundation.— Trebor (N.S.W.).
Transport
The Commissioner for Road Transport
in N, S. Wales lays it down in his time-
table that he can’t guarantee the buses to
run to time, and won’t be responsible in
any way for delays or the consequences
thereof. That moves “R.P.” (B. 19/7/ ’5O)
to ask just how long a private concern
would last if it adopted that attitude.
It would be much more to the point
if he could name one transport concern,
public or private, which doesn’t. I’d
suggest that he gets hold of a steamer-
ticket and reads the small print on the
back. If he takes it seriously he’ll never
travel, for he’ll find that, far from
guaranteeing to run to a schedule, the
shipping concern doesn’t even guarantee
to have a ship.
As for his criticism of the attitude of
the Government worker towards the
travelling public, it applies with equal
force to such institutions as the post-
office —I’ve no time for it. It remains a
truism that a country gets the Govern-
ment it deserves, and it’s equally true
that it gets the civil (or uncivil) service
it asks for.
Years ago Queensland threw out its
Labor Government for one term. The
new crowd were not in office long enough
to do much good, but the almost over-
night change in the attitude of the rail-
waymen towards their employers was
comical. They became practically civil.
That can happen anywhere if people like
“R.P.” take the trouble to assert their
rights. Most Australians, in my experi-
ence, just can’t be bothered. — Trans-
porticus (Singapore).
Farmers
The suggestion that farmers, working
their own farms, should resort to a 40-
hour week could only come from some-
one lacking a sense of proportion.
To begin with, there’s no comparison
between the farmer and the wage-earner.
The farmer is following his chosen pur-
suit ; he is free, or comparatively so, to
order his daily comings and goings, and
his occupation is probably the healthiest
in the world. The wage-earner, at least
in the city, is often engaged in work in
which jie can have no direct interest,
which can in no sense become a hobby
and which is often at direct variance
with his natural inclinations.
Further, the farmer’s work-day can
commence as he leaves the breakfast-
table and cease when he downs tools.
The city worker travels to and from
work, and often loses two to three hours
daily on the journey.
Farm work isn’t hard —now. I’ve
cleared in the Westralian wheatbelt,
done scrub-rolling, scooped dams, driven
teams and tractors, sewn bags and carted
wheat and water. And I’d do any of
that work on my own farm for 60 hours
a week rather than take a wages job in
the city.
The farmer doesn’t work for money
alone. He works for freedom and an
outdoor life, a good living in his prime
and the prospect of a competence in his
old age. And while he’s getting that he’s
paid far better than the city worker.
Try it. Take any farmer who has rea-
sonable prospects of success—and most
have nowadays—and place him in a job
where, during working hours, he can
catch only an occasional glimpse of the
sun; where the clash and clang of
machinery replace the whirr of the har-
vester or the sound of the breeze; and
where, instead of the smell of fresh-
turned soil, he breathes the fumes and
smoke of a factory. House him in a
good-class dwelling where he has an un-
interrupted view for perhaps 20 yards
and where any conversation in unguarded
tones is open to a neighbor on either
side. After a month of that offer him his
farm again. He’ll take it.
Farmers are farmers because that’s
about the only occupation that provides
the freedom and the type of life they
must have. They moan about long hours,
I know, and sometimes they even seem
long. But farmers aren’t rushing the 40-
hour jobs in the city. — Kelmscott
(W.A.).
Open Spaces
Before it is too late something on a
large scale should be done to preserve
one of our greatest assets. It was our
boast that we could, within an hour’s
travel of any of our cities, and even
closer to our big country towns, go to a
quiet stream to fish, camp in ideal bush
surroundings, hifiit rabbits and other
game, swim or just rest in the bush.
With the spread of population we see
the clearing of land, bushland disappear-
ing, houses being built on river banks
and home-sites being taken right on the
edge of the ocean, so that soon the town-
dweller will be trespassing on private
property immediately he leaves the high-
way. Even the beautiful Hawkesbury
River country will be cut up and built on
soon unless something is done to prevent
it.
I don’t suggest the creation of more
national parks, but care should be taken
to see that there is plenty of bushland
remaining as crown land for the use of
the people. Strips of land right along the
foreshores of our harbors and rivers and
beaches should be reserved as public
property, so that these places will be for
the use of all —W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Television
So we are to get television. England
and the U.S.A. have had it for years, and,
after reading of their experience, one
wonders whether t.v. has the same general
utility value in the homo as ordinary
radio.
Probably the most .outstanding result
of the introduction of standard radio-
receivers was the breaking-down of the
home social-life which was a feature of
our nation until the early ’twenties. Until
after the end of the 1914-18 war
family sing-songs of a Saturday evening
or Sunday were the regular thing. Most
kids learned to play a musical-instrument
or to sing.
How many do those things today? How
many families now gather around the
piano for their own little concert? How
many recitations does one hear in the
parlor? The radio wiped out that side of
family-life. It is something the old-timers
talk about, but which the young folk can’t
remember. *
What will be the effect of television on
home-life? Maybe it will bring the kids
back home. If it does* it will probably
prove a blessing, for so. many of our pre-
sent troubles can be directly traced to die
dissolution of the home-life of the family
as it used to be.
There is, however, the possibility that
the introduction of t.v. might result in> a
race of “just lookers.” It could most cer-
tainly result in the waste of many hours
that are now applied to some better pur-
pose. Many radio-listeners keep one ear
cocked to their receivers while doing
something else about the home. Listening
to the football, for instance, and digging
in the garden at the same time. You
couldn’t do that with t.v., nor could Mum
get on with her housework and absorb
her serials at the same time. Something
would have to go, and one can imagine
what it would be.— Cave (N.S.W.).
Soldiers* Gear
“C.R,” scores a washout with his sug-
gestion (B. 23/8/’5O) that the service-rifle
has had its day. He forgets that the rifle
carries the attacker’s most potent weapon
—the bayonet—and that in Open warfare
the sub-machinegun has limited use ex-
cept at very close range. A chap I know
once fought a duel at 100-yards’ range
with a Jerry. The latter, armed with a
tommy-gun, fired two long bursts which
went wide of the mark ; one round from
my friend’s rifle finished the business.
The same thing happened many times,
even in the jungle, where, incidentally,
most officers carried a rifle in preference
to a pistol.
Nor} does the rifle always suffer by
comparison with the Bren, which can be
wasteful of ammunition and which is
therefore often used in a “single-shot’
role. . .
I agree that the service-rifle can be
lightened, but that should not be
attempted at the expense of either its
calibre or its reliability. If Ordnance is
anxious to lessen the footslogger’s load
there is plenty of surplus weight in the
greatcoat (a fleecy-lined raincoat would
be preferable); in the service-dress (a
fine gaberdine would be lighter and
warmer); and in the boots. But for
heaven’s sake don’t let us clamor for the
type of popgun with which the Italian was
armed. — Peter Mike (W.A.).


READ
TAMING THE NORTH,
by Hudson Fysh.
A richly adventurous story of enter-
prise and courage based on the life of
Alexander Kennedy, pioneer of the
Australian outback.
15/- (po»t lOd.)
BEHIND BAMBOO,
by Rohan D. Rivett.
The first complete chronicle to speak
for all Australians who endured cap-
tivity at the hands of the Japanese.
An epic of heroism and endurance.
15/- (post I/-)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Publishers
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
THINGS TO REMEMBER
ABOUT YOUR HOLIDA
I* Good Books add so much
to a good holiday! And an up-to-
date knowledge will enable you to
take along with you those books
you’ll enjoy more.
2* It S easy to acquire that
knowledge of books if you read
Dymock’s Catalogue of New and
Recent Books every month. It’s full
of interesting reviews of the latest
and best.
Ask to have your name placed on our Mailing List now.
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8L3611.
A Saga of the English Countryside
THROUGH THE VALLEY
by Robert Henriques
THROUGH THE VALLEY is a novel conceived ' and executed in the
grand style. It is built round a group of friends and relations, men and
women and children, caught in the toils of their personal relationships,
and in the social revolution that has taken place in England between
1926 and 1949. Although the scene varies, the backcloth is a valley in
the Cotswold Hills. Price 14s. 9d.
Obtainable at all booksellers on September 26,
COLLINS
TALES OF THE SEVEN SEAS
In New, Cheaper Editions
SAILORMEN'S GHOSTS
By Malcolm Uren
Shipwrecks, piracy, treasure trove, inter-
woven with life on the West Australian
coast. Good red-blooded reading.
6/- (Postage 6d.)
IN THE WAKE
By Capt. Gerald Doorly
All the sdVen seas know Doorly, and he
has tales to tell, both tragic and
humorous.
51- (Postage 5d.)
Buy by mail from —
& MULLENS LTD.
107-113 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Just arrived in Australia, a new BRITISH publishing achievement
NEWNES’ PICTORIAL KNOWLEDGE
A DELIGHT FOE ALL CHILDREN - - - - OF INESTIMBLE VALUE TO PARENTS
•10 Volumes • Magnificent Illustrations • Fascinating Text
PICTORIAL KNOWLEDGE has been written by eminent British writers to help and
attract children to acquire knowledge of
age of four onwards, YET THE BOOKS
HAVE INTEREST AND VALUE RIGHT
UP TO ADULT AGE.
44 wonderful sections, covering subjects
from the ABC to Atomic Energy, with
special questions and answers section, factual
index and 5 years’ FREE advisory service.
fro GEORGE NEWNES (Australia) Pty. Ltd., 1
| 3rd Floor, 119 York Street, Sydney, N.S.W. |
‘Please send me free descriptive folder and cash or I
1 easy-terms payment of PICTORIAL KNOWLEDGE.
| Name (Mr. Mrs. Miss) |
[Address |
—ll-J
POWER WITHOUT GLORY
A novel in three parts
by
FRANK J. HARDY
An outstanding novel of this generation. Tells the thrilling and startling
story of the rise of a man from Melbourne slum to millionaire’s mansion
and his ruthless struggle for power.
670 pages. 14 illustrations by Ambrose Dyson 16/6
AT ALL BOOKSHOPS NOW. /
Sole Australian distributor: JOSEPH WATERS, Room 90, Third
Floor, Collins House, 860 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
a blend of voracious with narwhal; in
manxome he sees maniac, manx cat and
fearsome: uffish possibly combines
uberous with officious; tulgey possibly
combines thick, bulgy, bosky; galumph-
ing combines galloping with triumphing;
frabjous perhaps blends fragrant with
joyous; and chortle “manifestly mingles
chuckle and snort.’ 1
Bits About Books.
Elizabeth Bowen’s Collected Im-
pressions (Longmans) is mostly book-re-
views, mostly from the “New States-
man,” mostly a little thin. The pieces
have occasional forthright sentences: —
Sir Richard Burtpn’s wife: “It was she
who put him across, in a big way. On
his behalf she became a brilliant, hyp-
notic bore” . . ,
Manners: “ . . . so-called free, or in-
telligent, society imposes a tax on all the
powers To please, even to conform to
what is expected, one must constantly
draw on a private natural genius, meant
for one’s own pleasure or for the in-
timacies of love.... Manners were a pro-
tection ; they also stabilised one” ...
Short-story writing; “The writer who
rates above all things verisimilitude and
the all-round view, or who cannot sustain
one mood until the writing rounds itself
off, does better to leave the short-story
alone. It must be recognised that even
in the short-story of the greatest integrity
there has to be a sort of concealed
trick” ...
In a more-rounded account of her old
school: “Not one of as intended to be
L.O.P.H. (Left On Pa’s Hands).”
The Royal Academy, 1936: “This
month Burlington House is glossy and
bland with pictures that represent the
norm of English honesty, susceptibility,
power or wish to see.” (Our italics surely
cover an unexplored world of art theory).
The subjects include Flaubert, Virginia
Woolf, Forster, Barrie, Dublin, Dover,
George Moore, Dress, Maugham—it is
a pleasing handbook to recently-pub-
lished books. There is also a B.B.C.
dialogue in which Trollope comes con-
siderably Alive ; and there are some notes
on novel-writing.
Baudelaire fo Bonnard.
Though it is most lavishly produced
and in many ways very beautiful, Albert
Skira’s Baudelaire to Bonnard —the first
of his projected three-volume survey of
modern painting from 1850 to the present
day—is something of a disappointment
from a publisher who has produced
some of the finest art books of our
generation.
Announced as “an entirely new con-
ception” of the art book, the new con-
ception proves to be nothing more than
the facts that every plate (80 all told) is
in full color, and the letterpress, with one
exception, is so arranged as to obviate the
need for turning over the leaf to find the
subject illustrated.
Several plates are slightly out of focus,
and anyone judging Cezanne’s “Hang-
man’s House,” Seurat’s “Courbevoie
Bridge,” Renoir’s “First Outing,” or Sis-
ley’s “Bougival Weir Under Snow” by
their reproductions here will have a tra-
vestied conception of those works. More-
over, the necessity of making the plates
fit the text has led to some confusing
alterations in scale. Thus Manet’s “De-
jeuner Sur 1’Herbe,” which is one of the
largest of the originals used, is given the
smallest reproduction, while Seurat’s
“Poseuse” is actually larger than the
original.
The text contains some surprising
errors. For example, Georges Seurat
becomes Georges de Seurat; the artists
Monet and Manet are confused); the
date of the Grenouille pictures by Monet
and Renoir is given as 1865 instead of
1868-69 ; it is stated that Monet began
to visit Normandy only in 1866, whereas
he was already painting at Honfleur in
1864. Cafe Volpini becomes Cafe Vol-
pone, and Octave Maus becoines Octave
Mans. A picture by Henry Cross is
dated 1873, not 1893 ; the first meeting
of Van Gogh and Gauguin given as 1888
instead of 1886.
Exception can also be taken to the
historical interpretation of the period
dealt with: Carriere, Mary Casatt,
Berthe Morisot, Puvis de Chavannes and
Rousseau are not illustrated at all; there
is no Cezanne earlier than 1873, no
Monet later than 1877, no Van Gogh of
the Paris period, no racecourse scene by
Degas, none of his late pastels.
On the other hand there are 11 Bon-
nards and five Vuillards.
Had the volume been designed as a
corrective to the ideas of English-speak-
ing students, familiar for the most part
only with the examples of modern
masters held in America or England, it
would have been most acceptable. And,
in fact, this is the most useful purpose it
serves. On page after page one finds
works never illustrated in the books with
which one is familiar, such as Wilenski’s
Modern French Painters or the Museum
of Modern Art’s History of Impression-
ism.
DONOVAN CLARKE.
Better Roses: A. S. Thomas (Angus
and Robertson). Dr. Thomas is president
of the National Rose Society of Victoria,
and tells in clear, practical style every-
thing that either the private or commercial
rose-grower in Australia and New
Zealand needs to know. It is a pity that
paintings of roses weren’t used for the
color-reproductions instead of the lurid
colored photographs, but the profuse
black-and-white illustrations make it dec-
orative as well as useful.
* * * *
The Coral Sea : Alan Villiers (Museum
Press). The third volume in an “Oceans
of the World” series ; Villiers mixes a
little of his own sailing experiences with
historical accounts of Spanish, Portu-
guese, Dutch and other voyagers up to
the U.S. Navy in the Pacific War. It
makes colorful popular reading: packed
with all kinds of adventure s but historians
wouldn’t agree with some of the conjee
tures with which Villiers fills up the gap
in the journals of the early navigators.
* * * *
In The Making of Pakistan (Faber)
Richard Symonds, who worked in India
with the Friends Ambulance Unit during
World War II and thereafter on re-
lief service in the Punjab following
Indian partition and with the secretariat
of the U.N. Commission, writes an
authoritative and well-documented ac-
count of the sharper racial conflict which
has arisen since the partition, and par-
ticularly the struggle for Kashmir.
During the previous propaganda cam-
paign by the Moslem League under the
late Mr. Jinnah the name Pakistan was
reported to have been devised from P
for Punjab, A for Afghania (n.-w.
frontier province), K for Kashmir, and
“istan,” combining Baluchistan and a
common Asiatic suffix. Mr. Symonds
also quotes Professor Rehmat Ali (of
Cambridge), who, having invented the
name in 1933 long before the Moslem
League and the Indian Press took it up,
gives it a much wider Moslem associa-
tion, one which permitted Mr. Jinnah
to dream of a Moslem Federation stretch-
ing from the Mediterranean to the Indus.
“THE BULLETIN”
CROSSWORD No. 86
Across.
I—Drinks1 —Drinks the woman’s wager in the
steamer. (8)
s—Berry5—Berry box snare for catching
plays upon words? (6)
10 — Whoever swaps the former cen-
tury and the executioner. (9)
11 — Give voice to. (5)
12 — Dry tune? (3)
13 — Lectures on poultry—very much
to the point. (5, 6)
14— Gear. (3)
15 — 31 days or a civic functionary. (5)
18 — Childless seasons? (3)
19 — King takes the east with the
blood-spattered fast-bowler. (7)
20— Oriental dynasty imitated Caruso.
(4)
22 —Mercury urges Long John to get
a wriggle on. (11)
25 — High-priest of Shiloh. (3)
26 — Capone thanks one range in
Asia. (5)
27 — If no. troop is found in a famous
Genoese resort. (9)
28 — Flowers of next year’s fibs? (6)
29 —No highspots in an apartment
contest .between England and
Australia. (8)
Down.
1 — Notices flying and vacillating. (9)
2 Accompany and protect the dis-
orderly sector. (6)
3~Most superior about a brute. (5)
4—Label a diary language. (7)
6 South American floor-covering
among ewes and a negative
upset. (9)
7 Number streak confused when an
offer is quite ignored. (2, 6)
8 — Stay covered with bitumen. (5)
9 Flower girl is easy on the eye. (4)
15 — Sage ticker way of traversing a
circle. (9)
16— Animal orchestra and I firm to
upset. (9)
17 — Catcher’s glove in the genuine
surrender. (8)
20 — A few cut through Capone. (7)
21 — Grieve about timber. (6)
22 — Cower bird. (5)
23 — Goblin and I joined a Kaffir
army. (4)
24 — Perch in the marsupial thorough-
fare. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 85.


ti NEVER BOUGHT
SO MUCH BEFORE I
while stocks last a
of slacks
pair
is yours for only
A
W E GUARANTEE to you that these famous aU-pnrpomm
Stamina Trousers . . . are tailored from pure weal
"Crusader” cloth which never fades or shrinks . aro
available In 12 popular colours • . . are cut by fashion
experts to ensure comfort, stylish appearance and perfect
fit (YOUR correct fitting is available as over ID® different
sizes are tailored) . . . are consistently bought by over a
million Australian men and it Is only because of this huge
demand that they are still available at OS/ 11 .. . are so
perfectly tailored that they outlast many times, cheaply-
made trousers . . . stand up to the wear and tear of
numerous dry-cleanings as every scant Is serged • • • are
self-supporting and there is no elastic to perish and no
need to buy braces or spend additional money on a belt.
while the price remains at 09/11. Remember,
all costs— cloth, trimmings, wages—are again increasing.
ASK FOR
Stamina*
SELF-SDPPORTINGf
TROUSERS
• £5
1.-:--:
£•£■
:■££
il
m
m
m
Wii
SBSJ
K
£>- : £
If
K
■'■■■":>
■■■ -
, -
TILLABLE AT All LEADING MEN’S WEAR STORES
