

The Bulletin
Bulletin,” Vo'. 71 No. 3664
Wednesday, May 3, 1950
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
CANTERBURY’S ancient West Gat*
spans a road which took successive
conquerors from the Kentish coast to
London, a road which has seen more
history than any other road in Britain;
along it has passed the Romans, later
came the Danes, who, in time, were
followed by the Normans. A pageant of
history extending over a period of thirteen
hundred years has passed beneath the
West Gate which was repaired in 1380
and Roman bricks were used in its
construction.
The original gate saw William the
Conqueror after the Battle of Hastings
on his way from London to Dover on his
return to Normandy, Henry II passed
through the gate on July 12, 1174,
“barefoot and weeping” in penitent’s
garb on his way to the Cathedral
crypt. Beneath the arch passed
Edward I (1272-1307) and Margaret
of France to their wedding in
Canterbury’s Cathedral and in the follow-
ing twenty years the massive gateway
saw the magnificent processions of
Edward II and Edward 111. Crusaders
passed this way to seek the blessing of
St. Thomas. Through the West Gate
passed the funeral cavalcade of the Black
Prince, “a stately hearse drawn by twelve
black horses, the whole court and both
Houses of Parliament following in deep
mourning.”
In 1500 there were riots around the
West Gate between monks and citizens ;
later Charles 1 (1625-1649) passed through
the gate on his way to London with his
bride, Henrietta Maria, soon to be
followed by Cromwell’s troops and so to
the days of the stage coach and the
arrival of Queen Victoria (1837-1901).
Today the tower is open to visitors and
serves as a museum for a small collection
°f old arms and armour, fetters and
manacles. Of particular interest in this
collection, is a scold’s bridle and a ducking
stool which were at one time in con-
siderable demand for scolding women.
CANTERBURY’S WEST GATE HAS SEEN HISTORY’S PAGEANTRY
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


w
This Book FREE to le qe,
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE
,00 Russell Street. Melbourne. __
CUT HERE AND MAIL^^
Please send, without V % Profit, <*
Booklet explaining how to
advertised in the Sydney
My Name .
My Address
S.B. 150 ..
The Red Page
G RAVES, BUT GAY.
The recent history of art has been
mostly of an attempt to replace the literary
painting with the abstract painting; to
replace the picture that tells a story with
the picture that illustrates a theory. The
same tendency has been noticeable in
poetry: there was a time when at least
one Australian master objected to put-
ting titles to his poems;
“We must avoid,” he said, “the literary
poem” . . .
And he still feels that to give a poem
a twist with a title which, by itself, the
poem would not have, is meretricious:
memories of this and other old battle-
fields are revived by The Common
Asphodel, collected essays on poets and
poetry, 1922-1929, by Robert Graves
(Hamish Hamilton). Nor could it be said
that his title is meretricious, for Robert
Graves’s attitude to the asphodel is the
attitude all these essays take to poetry;
he feels it necessary to point out that
this flower, sacred to the immortals, has
been misunderstood by many commen-
tators. Pope spoke of its whitish flowers
as “yellow meads,” Tennyson considered
that his “Lotos Eaters” would find beds
of this tough, rough plant, which grows
in rocky and waterless waste-ground,
suitable for “resting weary limbs” ; Milton
imagined “nectared lavers strewed with
asphodel”; whereas, says Graves, the
important part of the asphodel to the
ancients was its bulb, which was to them
as the potato is to us ; moreover, the
seeds could be ground into bread. An
exact, naturalist’s drawing of the asphodel
in various phases of its growth, which
forms the frontispiece, emphasises these
points ; and Graves brings the asphodel
up to date with the last page of the book:
Brockhaus' Konversations Lexicon (1925)
says that sugar and alcohol are now
extracted from asphodel tubers, especially
in the Languedoc. But the yield does not
seem to be very high; an asphodel factory
started five or six years ago in Majorca
(where I live) during a sugar famine failed
dismally, though the raw material is plenti-
ful here and may be had for the carting.
Robert Graves’s attitude to poetry may
be distinguished as “practical.” He is
ane of the foremost of those who have
insisted, with Ezra Pound (for whom he
has no high regard), that poetry should
be a means of communication between
men of intelligence, and that it should be
written precisely, so that every word
counts, yet, viewed from now, his most
admired modern examples, although they
may be persons of intelligence, and have
written very tightly, seem to have had
/ery little to communicate; E. E. Cum-
mings :
stinging
gold swarms
upon the spires
silver
chants the litanies the
great bells are ringing with rose
the lewd fat bells
and a tall
wind
is dragging
the
sea
with
dream
-S
Edith Sitwell:
The wind’s bastinado
Whipt on the calico
Skin of the Macaroon
And the black Picaroon
Beneath the galloon
Of the midnight sky....
Marianne Moore (comparing a steam-
roller to a man laboring the point):
The illustration
is nothing to you without the application.
You lack half wit. You crush all par-
ticles down
into close conformity, and then walk
back and forth on them
Laura Riding (who collaborated in
many of these essays):
The rugged black of anger
Has an uncertain smile-border.
The transition from one kind to another
May be love between neighbor and neighbor:
Or natural death; or discontinuance
Because so small is space,
The extent of kind must be expressed
otherwise
The efforts of Mr. Graves to elucidate
these mysteries have something of the
interest of a detective story ; but for all
that, it is the detective we admire, and
not the mystery ; and in spite of Graves’s
complaints against critics and public who
do not give enough earnest thought to
poetry, we can feel reasonably sure now
that these pieces, however much they have
of some parts of poetry, are sadly lack-
mg m others. Graves makes his points
better when he is d :ing poems which
most people undv. stand, or thought they
bef -° re he and Miss Ridi ng set
Won them, m the famous Pamphlet
Against Anthologies of 1927. Reduced
to two chapters, this hilarious addition
to literary criticism is printed in the
present book, and seems to retain most
of the Pamphlet’s excellences ; the early
version (1680) of “Annie Laurie”:
She’s backit like the peacock,
She’s breastit like the swan,
She’s jimp aboot the middle,
Her waist ye well might span....
the brilliant point about Hodgson’s parson
losing his senses; and the line-by-line
analysis of Yeats’s “Isle of Innisfree” ;
but it leaves out an original composition
of the authors which will always haunt
at least one reader’s memory—the com-
plaint of Yeats’s early poems against their
author:
In Dublin, in the Senate,
Our old honest father sits,
Drinking champagne on the proceeds
Of his early loss of wits.
Graves is most interesting to people
little jaded with modernism, as most
us are now, when he is writing aboi
poetry that is not contemporary. H s
essay on the sources of Shakspeare
“The Tempest” includes an argument tha
Shakspeare had contemplated a menage
trois with the Dark Lady of the Sonne
and young Mr. W.H. But, having intro
duced _ Mr. W.H. to the Dark Lady
Shakspeare was double-crossed: the Dar
Lady became enamored of the beautifu
boy, the beautiful boy of the Dark Lady
and off they went together, leaving th
Bard to mourn without either. The ide
is piquant enough by itself, but its elabo
ration, with the aid of a chapter of Isaia
and a dissertation on the Court politic
and thespian politics of the time, into a
explanation of Caliban, is a masterpiece
if not of convincing proof, at least o; :
poetic imagination:
[Shakspeare] recognised in Caliban these
various components: the ugly boy of
Welsh legend, an Adriatic devil from a
Spanish romance; a sea-cow seen in the
Bermudas; Jesuitism incarnate in Ravaillac;
Mr. W.H.; the Malus Angelas of a
morality play; with Trinculo under his
gaberdine, a tableau vivant caricaturing the
Two-Headed League; and when talking of
his dreams, the natural genius of poetry,
true heir to the magical island through ms
witch mother, whom Prospero by his
scholarly arts has deprived of his birth-
right and turned into a dull drudge.
Graves is again at bis most origina
in the essay on “How Poets See”:
Keats was short-sighted. He did not
see landscapes as such, so he treated them
as painted cabinets filled with interesting
objects... .He did not look at the sky,
but started from the farthest horizon,
standing on tip-toe to survey as much
earth as possible lying between him and
it. Then, he let his eye travel
up some small inviting path.... His habit
was to allow his eye to be seduced from
entire vision by particular objects....
In [Wordsworth’s] early “Evening Walk”
[his] habitual searching sweep of the eye
is proved in action. It starts from the sky,
rests on the hill-top, sweeps down the
cliffs to the scree at the bottom, then up
again by another line, and down again
until the entire view is covered....
There are also some harsh words on
Milton’s private life, in answer to various
critics of Graves’s book. Wife to Mr.
Milton; and there is an analysis of the
reasons why World War I produced more
and better poetry than World War II;
one of his main conclusions is that the
war-correspondents of the second war
saw more of the actual fighting than the
war correspondents of the first; in which,
consequently, it was left to the poets to
tell the truth.
R. McC.
An Edwardian Pressman .
It is hard to say of Sir Philip Gibbs,
one of the world’s most capable
journalists, that he has the air of not quite
knowing what it’s all about. Perhaps his
world is the real world. The inhabitant
of Redfem might think the Wahroonga
gentry unduly isolated from the hard
facts of life; the Wahroonga gentry
(although this is unlikely) might think the
occupants of Buckingham Palace a little
isolated from the common round of
Wahroongan existence—then again, Gibbs
lives and writes like a gentleman, which
is enough to make him seem out of touch
with contemporary developments. But
evidently Robert Graves felt something
similar when, in his essay on “The Poets
of World War II,” he gave as one reason
for the blood-and-guts novels which fol-
lowed World War I the remoteness of
the early war-correspondents:
In World War I we had not been nearly
so well served: W. Beach Thomas was no
Alexander Clifford, and Philip Gibbs no
Alan Moorehead. We felt bound to
supplement the rosy official accounts of
execrable battles, of which the writer had
no first-hand experience, with unofficial
sidelights on their realistic horrors.
This must bq an indictment of the
earlier censorship rather than of the
earlier correspondents; for a glance at
Gibbs’s life in a literary encyclopaedia
will show him to have been one of the
most physically and morally courageous
of journalists, a reporter of riots and a
stander-upper for his own opinion against
popular indignation. At the same time.
he was an Edwardian \ as he says in
Crowded Company (Allan Wingate):
I saw the glamor of the Edwardian
puppet show, with less glamorous glimpses
behind the scenes 1 was a looker-on at
hie, too poor to be among the gilded youth,
except as an onlooker of their sports and
pastimes, too rich on £6 a week (with
lapses and uncertainties) to starve in garrets
with poor genius or to eat in dosshouses
with the underdogs (except as an
experience), too hard-worked to have much
of a social life of my own, but always
looking on as an outsider at this Charivari
which was Edwardian England and describ-
ing in hurried words which sometimes had
a glow in them, its daily kaleidoscope in
places high and low.
So probably it is because he is an
Edwardian, and has retained the
Edwardian manner, that he seems a little
out-of-sympathy with modem journalism.
In this book he remembers the people
and scenes of the Edwardian peace, of
London, of the literary world of the
English countryside and of various cities
in Europe; how, when a policeman mis-
takenly elbowed the French Ambassador
out of an exhibition-opening procession,
young Gibbs took his place, “being very
correctly dressed in tall hat and tail coat
and striped trousers and grey gloves,”
and later found himself next to Queen
Alexandra ; “and we walked together, the
Queen chatting very brightly and, being
deaf, not hearing my replies”:
When I returned to the “Daily Chronicle”
office after this abominable misbehavior
the news editor greeted me with astonish-
ment, having received the wet proofs of
many photographs in which I appeared
next to the Queen.
The tall hat, etc., which the well-dressed
young journalist used to wear in those
days proved something of a disadvantage
when he was rushed out at night, without
time to change, to report a shipwreck ;
and what Sir Philip was wearing when
he came near to “getting the bends” in
the compressed air-lock of the Deep l evel
Sewer he does not say. Another of his
assignments was the interviewing of
Crippen’s paramour, Ethel le Neve, when
his paper grabbed her and protected her
from the investigations of rival news-
papers in a private room in the “Daily
Chronicle” building.
In the chapter on London, we see Sir
John Reith, of the inspecting
Gibbs’s flat with view to renting it, and a
London house he owned that had two
and a half acres of garden, surrounded
by slum, and a few glimpses of “the de-
parted world of noble entertainment”—
powdered footmen seen for the last time
at the house of Lord Londonderry in
Park-lane, ahd the young Prince of Wales
arriving late amid the cheers of the crowd
outside, and Philip Kerr, later Lord
Lothian;
I went to lunch with him one day and
was startled when he fell fast asleep at
table. “Now, what shall I do about this?"
I thought, remembering that there had
been a late night in ParGament. I smoked
a cigarette, but my host still slept. I
smoked another and he awakened not. At
last he opened his eyes as though he had
only dozed off for a second, and said
politely: “What were you saying, Gibbs?”
We continued the conversation on world
affairs.
The section on literature, entitled “The
Pains of Labor,” has some interesting
stories about Gibbs’s brother, Cosmo
Hamilton, the playwright and story-
writer, who spent money as fast as he
made it, and as a member of the Home
Guard had his uniform cut by a West
End tailor, and so well that an American
general, entering offices on which
Hamilton was doing sentry-go, said “Say,
brother, do you salute me or do I salute
you?”
There is also an account of Ray Long,
editor of the American magazine
“Cosmopolitan”; his long and ecstatic
cables to British authors, his fabulous
payments (though, with Edwardian pro-
priety, there is no mention of precise
amounts paid), his incredible expense
account when he visited London to enter-
tain British ; the lady he had
engaged to sing at a party for fifty of
them:
“Take that woman away!” he cried in
a loud voice. “She’s indecent. I don’t
stand for that kind of thing.” The lady
was led away. It must have been humiliat-
ing to her, but the party proceeded gaily
without her.
Later the party adjourned to the Savoy
ballroom, and Gibbs danced with Ray
Long’s secretary, “a little Puritan-looking
girl, shy and demure”:
The end of Ray Long and of this little
Puritan girl was on a South Sea island and
very tragic. The time came when Hearst
quarrelled, with him and jibbed at his
expense account. He lost his editorship
of the “Cosmopolitan.” He killed him-
self—
Not long afterwards there was a great
slump in the United States. In order that
American writers should have first call
upon their accounts, American publishers
and editors decided, very fairly, that no
more high fees, nor even low fees, should
be paid to British writers, getting old-
fashioned, anyhow, they thought, for the
new American taste. Since 1929 I have
never been asked for a short story by an
American editor, and many friends of mine
have suffered the i
ol them was serious anTdfi.t 0 son*
There are several oth*.. Slng-
sto • ° n n the p l actical busm ( tereStlng side-
smp,.one is the trick h,
Usher, owning the copyrkh
novel demands £500 for § ’ >f , et,riv
success* o?1 ? and interfer ! ', i;
success of later novels - an
to brush-off an agent whS
famous that you no longer r
are shown John Galswofo
cheque for £500 to his ag°S
mission to alfterarv H 1 Pi
handled my earlier 'work’”" 1
% literary section has a L
words about libel, and a bU I fo, > :
Locke, author of Bek i' '
unbf‘‘TU Ut K T, , Sj Eliot <0. " I 1 !
until The English Village” •-
. During the war our poet L
hilltop above the village (of
Oreen) surrounded by the Jon, i
*ep m bracken when^racto^
Hut ™ f V1 . ew to the blue dis
hut many tunes next morntn„
my IO httfe f SeS hS h ® K CCepted a t jj
with its litter of S L
was another occupant of that car,’ ’o whom
i. S Eliot said “Good momino” ,
politely. It was Lord
Lennox dgeendant of the Stuarf
"“Ot nC said Good momino u
very politely. That is all they did So
each other on the journeys to tewnLS
several months had passed, wh™ S
wSheT. d a fCW opimons about the
Another poet, who visited Sir Philin
at Shamiey Green, was John Pudney;—
VVe bad an amiable conversadon, in the
course of which he told me that lately he
had recited some of his poems in a pub
at Bnxton (“It’s a thing we poets do
nowadays,’’ he told me), when presently
the door opened and a tall, slightly stooping
man came in and stood there listening
“Who do you think it was?” asked John
Pudaey,
For some reason I guessed.
“T. S. Eliot?”
John Pudney nodded. 1
The picture comes to mind of Mr.
David McNicoll reciting some of his
poems to the long bar of the Australia
and the tall, stooped figure of Mr. Slessor
coming in and listening—and then it fades
away again. v ,
Crowded Company is illustrated with
plates of pencil drawings by the author
of buildings and scenes in England and
Europe. One hesitates to pronounce upon
their artistic merit, except that they seem
open to the charge of being uncommonly
like something the author has seen on
his travels, ; Wssk §
Reviewed Briefly.
New Hall Porcelain: George Eyre
Stringer (Art Trade Press, London). A
large, handsome book, with 20 pages of
black-and-white illustrations and a
frontispiece in color, telling the story of
Hollins, Warburton and Co., who made
porcelain at New Hall in Staffordshire
from 1781 to 1830. For potters and
collectors of pottery.
* * * *
Western Tasmania; a Land of Riches
and Beauty: Charles Whitham (dis-
tributed by Oldham, Beddome
Meredith Pty., Ltd., Hobart). Repri
a comprehensive account of this dn
at times too statistical but enliyene
historical articles, first published in 1
« * * *
The Quest of Enlightenment and
Road to Nirvana (Murray). Sele
from the earliest Buddhist serif
translated from the Sanskrit and th
by E. J. Thomas, M.A., D. Litt., ai
signed to show the origin and de
ment of Buddhism in India and Ce
# , * * *
Towards an Organic A relate
Bruno Zevi (Faber). Survey of nr
architecture since 1930, Europeai
American, with special attention
work of the American Frantc
Wright, *
* * *
The Elements of Lawn T
Norman H. Patterson (Faber).*
and useful exposition for ttt
player. Rules and a disqmsm-
“knotty points” are included.


TRUThBiN ADVERTISING"
Anthony
Horderns’
a
It
c
N
s.
at
\
■r>v
Lis?
r
""W*
*s
fc£?) /
r
-
sa
///
gr *%>
h
ira
f M Hill II n» * M w • JJJjffgHS I
/f
St
m
W
I
if
as
«w
mri
if
i
M
wr
Hi
nr
W*
I
Full stocks of famous
“JUMBUK
( Exclusive)
Men’s Underwear
m
Jumbuk” Regd. Underwear, made from
Pure Wool Yarn, non irritating to the
tenderest skin, guaranteed pre-shrunk. Wide range of sizes
to ensure a smoother, more comfortable fit.
Lightweight
ens Underwear - Ground Floor, Ge( it. Phone M 2401. 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.
Tobacco
Requisites
3P
‘AH & S” Briar, A well
made and cool smoking
pipe with Vulcomite
mouthpiece. 16/6.
30
E
Ronson “Whirlwind”
Chrome Butler Lighter.
Disappearing windshield.
Price 58/6.
Pipe Tobaccos. Gallahers’
Two Flakes, medium
strength, 4/9. De Luxe
Mixture, 4 / 9£. Rich Dark
Honeydew, priced at 5/1.
In 2oz. sealed tins.
•A tit
St. Andrew Flor Fina
Jamaican made small
Coronas Cigars, 1/8 each.
Box of 25, 39/9.
m
n
W
m
%
m
Comoy’s “Compactor”
English Tobacco Pouch.
High Grade Brown Per-
sian leather with rubber
lining. Price, 30/-.
smokers’ accessories
GND. FLOOR, GEORGE ST*


TREE WAKEFUL NIGHTS
By
ETHEL ANDERSON
<<l* . * AKE up, Bigge ! For heaven’s
\A / sa^ce — wa^e U P • Something
VV perfectly ghastly is happen-
ing!”
Rushing frantically in through the tied-
up tent-flap, tearing wildly at the
mosquito-net that veiled the senior
subaltern’s stretcher, the last-joined
subaltern clutched hysterically at the
sleeper’s muscular shoulder.
“A most appalling thing! In my bed!
In the Dak bungalow!”
A revolver pressed with surprising
celerity against his chest astonished the
intruder. The sleeper was awake and
sitting up, the lamp turned higher.
“What nonsense is this?” At once
realising who had disturbed him, Bigge,
the senior subaltern, lowered his gun and
laughed. “You’ll have to acquire more
self-control, Nixon, my lad, if we are to
make a soldier of you! The gat took you
by surprise? It’s thug country! What is
all this tomasha about?”
In the lamplight young Nixon’s face
showed such distress that Bigge threw his
long legs over the side of his truckle-bed
and prepared to rise.
“What’s up? Out with it!”
“In the Dak bungalow! I’m sleeping in
the Dak bungalow! Next the camping-
ground”—
“Yes, yes! You’re sleeping there be-
cause you brought no kit with you. Oh
yes, that’s all right! Nobody blames
you! You ? d only just arrived from
England! You didn’t know the battery
was to march at one© for practice camp!
That’s all right! No one criticises you!
That’s” Bigge looked more closely at
his companion’s distracted expression,
“ What on earth’s thd matter ?”
“In my bed in, the Dak. bungalow,”
Nixon gasped, getting his breath, “there
are two people talking across me. I woke
to find them, one each side of me, the
woman on my right, 4 the man on my left.
“They didn’t seem to realise I was there
though I could see them quite clearly.”
He shuddered. “You told me to leave the
lamp burning. There was light enough to
see! At first I was petrified. I thought
they had got into bed on each side of me,
'not knowing I was there. I couldn’t stir
hand or foot; then I realised they didn’t
see me. I jumped out of bed. I must
have gone right through the man, but I
felt nothing. Nothing! But I was
suddenly very cold, and it’s a hot night! ”
Nixon looked astounded.
BIGGE removed the convulsive fingers
which still clutched at his shoulder.
He laid his revolver carefully down on
the ground, ready to his hand under his
narrow bed. He fell back, and pulled the
mosquito-net over himself.
“Oh, go away! Let me alone!” He
protested in disgust. “Didn’t I give you
the official pamphlet on The Effects of
Tropical Moonshine on Weak Heads to
read? Didn’t you read it? Eh?”
“I read the thing right through! _ But
there’s no moon tonight.”
Indeed there was no moon. Only,
beyond the darkness of a mangotope, a
gold felucca, like a gondola of light
tipped up by a rough sea coasting
(dangerously close) a reef of stars. The
earth lay all in shade,
“We’ve a 13-mile march to make
tomorrow! I must be up at three ak
emma. I went to bed at midnight. Have
a heart, my good chap! Off with you!
Let me sleep in peace.”
“Look here,” young Nixon said
earnestly, putting his ravaged face close
against the net. “Understand this—l am
perfectly normal. I saw those two people
as clearly as I see you—more clearly in
fact. Only they didn’t seem to see me. I
suppose they were too much absorbed in
their quarrel.”
“Go away.”
“Bigge, come and see them for your-
self.”
“Go away.”
“But, Bigge, it’s so extraordinary. It’s
so terrifying.” Young Nixon paused,
collecting his ideas. “It’s their anger
that’s so terrifying. The perfect fury of
hate in the woman’s expression, as she
looked at that man—why, I’ve never seen
anything like it in my life before! Those
two people loathed each other —I got that.
But I didn’t see the man’s face, actually.
I was looking more at the woman. I’ve
never seen such a white skin! ”
Bigge turned over and asked sharply,
“Did you hear their voices?”
Nixon looked nonplussed.
“No.” Bewildered, he considered the
point. “No. I can’t say I did. No. But
I got their relationship to each other, I
suppose, by the look on the woman’s
face. She had very light eyes, you could
hardly tell the whites from the iris, only
the pupils were dilated! They were like”
—he searched in his distressed memory—
“they were like the drawings of Medusa’s
head, on that fellow’s shield. Malignant.
Outraged. Capable of anything! ”
Bigge glanced at his wrist-watch. He
leant across to turn the hurricane-lamp
down to a mere glimmer. “Go back to
bed, you goat! If your friends worry
you, hoof them out!” He laughed. “Run-
ning over here in your bare feet! Don’t
you realise that’s a far more dangerous
thing to do than sleep between two
spooks? Don’t do that again—and that’s
an order, my boy!”
“But, Bigge! I’m scared. Those two
make you feel dreadful. Lying there
between them, whether they were real or
imaginary—and I’d swear I never could
have imagined them —never! I felt”
—he groped for a word —“I tell you I felt
damned /”
Bigge sat up again in exasperation, to
peer angrily through the enveloping net
at his persistent visitor. “You’re worse
than a gnat. Or a fly. Or a mosquito.
Or a woman. You only joined the
battery yesterday, didn’t you?”
“Yes.”
“What do we know about you? Noth-
ing. For all we know you might be one
of those bores who invariably inflict their
hallucinations on people. Get that?
Very well then—GO AWAY. And don’t
come back again.”
' Bigge lay down and shut his eyes,
NIXON, feeling foolish, cold and
frustrated, walked back to the Dak
bungalow from which he had fled
with such precipitation. It stood
not fifty yards from the camping-
ground where the tents were pitched,
and he could hear the comfort-
able stamping and snuffling of some two
hundred horses picketed beyond the tents,
and, further off, the jackals howling on
the fringes of the dark village.
It was by this time the hour of “false
dawn.” The sky had that queer greenish
patina smeared over it which,
Mohammedans say, is caused by light re-
flected from the wings of angels returning
to paradise with their nightly burden of
souls. This luminous illusion of day
fades an hour before the true dawn.
Hearing a whirr of wings, Nixon, who
did not think of angels, looking up, saw
a flight of blue-winged teal sweep down
on to the newly-sprouted paddy-fields
neighboring the river, here flowing—
hardly moving—not far from the high-
way, the camp, the Dak bungalow. A
gleam from the pale zenith made the
stagnant rice-fields apparent, and Nixon
remembered to have noticed the fresh
green shoots of the rice. “There won’t
be much of that crop left when morning
comes,” he thought, momentarily
diverted.
Having given the countersign to a
challenging sentry, Nixon reluctantly, and
with heavy feet, re-entered the bungalow.
Once inside, he hesitated, advanced, drew
back, and, finally steeling himself to do
it, looked through the open door of the
bedroom he had so hastily vacated. There
they still were! The man and the
woman! Her dead-white face, fronting
him, presented for his consideration the
same look of devastated anguish which
earlier had shocked him. He could not
see the man’s face; that was turned
from him. But the rigid, hardly-con-
trolled air of the youthful body—that of
a strong, tall man —spoke of revulsion.
Young Nixon shut the door. He got
from the dressing-room a rug and a coat
and established himself in a long-armed
planter’s chair on the veranda. He could
not sleep. He fancied that the voices his
ears had previously failed to register rose
and fell in an interminable altercation in
the room behind him.
Between the yard-thick pilasters of the
ancient bungalow the dawn seeped slowly.
Having to be on parade at three o’clock,
Nixon bestirred himself about two ; his
servant, coming in from the go-down in
the compound behind the house, got him
shaving-water and a hot bath, and packed
for him.
Before he walked across to the gun-
park, already humming with much
gay and audible activity, Nixon opened
the visitors’ book. Every Dak bungalow
has such a book, which sometimes
chronicles the itineraries of several
generations of travellers. Looking
through these dust-stained pages, Nixon
found to his astonishment that the first
entries in it were dated 1817, and the
latest 1857, the year of the Mutiny; and
he recognised, written here, several of the
names he had deciphered on graves
passed during that day’s march; many
tombstones were dotted along the route.
Only one name had been added since
those appearing in the fatal year, nearly
ninety-years back, and it was, Nixon
found, illegible. The date of this shy
traveller’s visit was clear enough.
“October 17th” —three years previously.
“Of course,” young Nixon now re-
collected, “the captain told me that this
old road to Barkachha is never used now.
He said we had come south because
cholera was so bad on the more northern
—the newer —road.” He tried again lo
read the crabbed signature—in vain—
though the entry written in the column
marked Recommendations was perfectly,
clear. The last-joined subaltern had not
expected to be amuse ’ in this ho nU'd
bungalow, but, reading this, he burs c
laughing.
“Well, he at any rate is no ghost! He
communicates his mi da e needs i»
French, too! What a joke,”
Still laughing, Nixon ran off, deciding
he would share the jest with no one, and
already ashamed of last night’s hysterical
fear.
'"THE neem-trees along the way were
1 flowering, and very fragrant.
How delightful it was, young Nixon
thought, to ride beside his own section in
the cool air of sunrise ! What joy it was
to him to see, ahead of the long column
of guns and wagons, his major’s clenched
fist as he made that sweeping, forward
movement with his extended arm that
signified “Trot!” What a pleasure, then,
it was to listen to the clink and jingle,
clop, clop, the clatter of steel and tapping
of hooves as his battery trotted a breath-
less mile!
What an equal enjoyment it was to
hear his men’s cheery voices when his
major’s whistle slowed the shining caval-
cade to a walk! It was sheer enchant-
ment to the last-joined subaltern to watch
Bigge’s broad shoulders far ahead of him,
as he kept his pi jce by the leading gun;
to think of this magnificent personage as
“my friend Bigge” ; to look round, too,
and see his captain jogging prosaically
along in the rear! In this region there
was no dust. All was damp. Dew
glistened on the harness, the horses’
manes; dew glittered on every reed-tip,
on every leap in the dark oyer-arching
trees, and the mists that loiter in the
purlieus of day were, every now and then,
as thick as wadding.
Trotting ecstatically, Nixon leant for-
ward to pat his charger’s glossy neck. He
felt very grand. His men! His horses!
“Well, really,” he thought, “who wouldn’t
be proud! ”He looked them over. Men
in the pink of condition! Horses m
perfect fettle!” What more could hte
offer to any young man?
The baggage-carts drawn by godlike
white oxen, passed a mile back, woul
fprge ahead during the hour e
battery halted for breakfast. Soon would
come the white cloth seen fluttering
between the tree-trunks on some mango-
tope, or set by some shady river-bank.
Soon, the garrulous meal!
Young Nixon rose and fell, rose an
fell. He felt grateful to Bigge, wh
had made no mention of his nndn g
trusion. „ • me
“I want you to be a success i ■
battery,” was all he had said when
thanked him for not ragging •
really was good of Bigge to be silent. 10
be a success ? Wouldn’t he try.
I T E was a success in the mess that
fi night. This area of waterways, of w
ending jheeis and dhunds, ofe 0 f
their network of irrigation C ’ tbe
the slow-moving tr^ ut ;* rie *. birds.
Ganges, was a haunt of g pf e
Game of every kind °
of the terrene world. All n g
by day to be seen wading, wa ter,
on every mirror-like surfa . bu t
these birds simply dea
since the Hindu population did
life, no sportsman, ex^ dar or rajah,
some Mohammedan zaminadar
ever troubled their P &acc ‘ ree ds that
Hidden among the longer i ai r.geese,
fringed every lag°on were gr y S
cotton-teal and whistling-teak sheldralce s
their ducklings on th ®* ba f o’vellers, 0 ’ ve llers, the
with their bla^\ c . 9 so shame-
peeping-toins of bathing-g c j ia itis
less that the villagers fi dwe ii s , feeding
must push them aslde » , 8 water-weeds,
by night a T°fLin unending, > n .
mallards, pintails m ved from
numerable ffights they. canal to
to lake, fro; a pool to river, *** pad dled
ditch, reservoir or dyke. ybaif.sub-
among the * Idy-birds in
merged ricefn Is. f or QIJ
The ma.iOf 'as working l for a
tnird subah .rn was doQe , was
language test; Bigge, ms
{Continued, on jwBBiB
WHERE MEN MUST FEED.
Lost in this valley that earth’s dazzle fills
4 stand upon the plateau of my Dream.
I stare at stars; then, close, at earth’s
green hills.
Where like a gesture halted in the stream
Of light and darkness, drought and flow.
Old Time seems tethered to one brittle
gum.
Death is the drum
The dead leaves rattle, or trumpet like a
scream,
When like a vision splintered in the mind.
Tearing the flesh of thought till bleeds the
Dream,
The last limb crashes, leaving the tree
dumb:
But not the earth, whose soil is the dark
bread
Where men, as mountains do, must come
to feed.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN HENDERSON


The Bulletin
Vol. 71 —No. 3664
Wednesday, May 3, 1950
V
CORNERED.


The Bulletin
.
The National Australian Newspape
*'‘Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior ”• “ rlor
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE : 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521: ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE ANTI-RED BILL.
The Prime Minister’s momentous speech
last Thursday introducing the legislation
to outlaw Communism effectively made
the point that “world Communists have
one goal—world revolution; that the
Soviet Union is to be the main force of
the revolution and that they assume that
the revolution will be violent.”
Mr. Menzies said that the bill was a
law relating to the safety and defence of
Australia, “designed to deal with, and
in certain cases to give the Government
the power to deal with, the King’s
enemies.” He emphasised that the
measure was “not an industrial law,” but
that “if it touches certain Communists
in industrial office [as it certainly does]
this is merely an inevitable consequence
of a self-defending attack upon treason
and fifth-columnism wherever it is to be
found.”
The bill itself declares the Communist
party of Australia illegal, dissolves it,
appoints a receiver of its property and
provides that any surplus over liabilities
in its funds shall be transferred to the
Commonwealth Treasury. It provides
that where the Governor-General is satis-
fied that the continued existence of a
body affiliated with the Communist party,
controlled by Communists (other than
registered trade-unions), or advocating
Communism would be prejudicial to the
defence or to the execution and main-
tenance of the ‘Constitution or laws of
the Commonwealth, he may declare that
body unlawful and appoint a receiver of
its assets. But the body concerned may
appeal to the High Court. Officials and
members of unlawful associations are
bound under the bill to cease operations
and are subject to imprisonment for a
breach of the law.
It is further set out in the bill that
where the Governor-General is satisfied
that a person has been a member or
official of an unlawful association since
May 10, 1948, the date of the close of
the last national congress of the Com-
munist party, which adopted the current
constitution, and that any activities of
that person are prejudicial to defence
and to the Constitution, he may “make
and publish a declaration accordingly”—■
subject again to appeal by the declared
person to the High Court; and at once
the declared person, becomes disqualified
from employment by the Commonwealth
or by.a Commonwealth authority. Also,
industrial organisations containing a sub-
stantial number of menders engaged in
key industries —coalmining, steel, building,
transport, power, engineering—vital to the
defence and security of Australia may
be designated specially as industries in
which “declared persons” who have en-
gaged in Communist-type activities may
not hold office.
The safeguarding clauses of the bill are
wide. The jail term for acting on behalf
of an unlawful association or for destroy-
ing, altering or withholding from a re-
ceiver any property of an unlawful asso-
ciation is five years. It is sufficient evi-
dence of membership or office-holding in
an unlawful association that between
May 10, 1948, and the date of the dissolu-
tion of the organisation the person in-
volved attended a meeting of the associa-
tion or one of its fractions, or that he
spoke publicly or wrote in advocacy of
such a body or its objectives after May
10, 1948, or that his name was found
among lists confiscated at Marx House on
July 8, 1949, as a member or officer of
the Communist party.
The Bulletin has advocated the out-
lawing of the Communist party for a
decade or more, and it has been ahead
ot the daily Press and political parties
in its warnings against the Communist
menace and the evil designs of Moscow.
But banning alone is unlikely to be
enough; other action, is needed.
The Communist party is rarely
as fortunate in development as it has
been m Australia, where it
has been given carte blanche to
expand by the Labor party by whatever
eTT Au has , cared to ado Pt; where it
h !l f E ndS u of large UnionS at its
disposal and has been abl,e to push, its
way into the very heart not only of the
controlling committees of key defence
industries but of the A.L.P, organisation
itself. Communists are accustomed to
illegality and have a special tech-
nique for acting illegally and under
ban, a technique which is their
normal method of procedure in contrast
to the abnormal legal methods that
they have been able to adopt in the Com-,
monwealth, where during “Labor’s” recent
period of rule they sometimes showed
themselves more powerful than the Gov-
ernment itself.
Without going further than the
Canadian spy trials of 1946, mentioned
by Mr. Menzies in his speech, it is pos-
sible to find an example in a British
Dominion of how little mere banning of
the Communist party means. In Canada
the party was outlawed when the greatest
conspiracy on behalf of Soviet Russia
yet unearthed in an English-speaking
country came to light. It proved that the
secretary of the banned party had been
continuously operating. It proved that
the party actually had a member in the
Canadian House of Commons masquerad-
ing as a “Progressive.” And it was
shown conclusively how much of the
work of Moscow and of the Communist
party is done under cover by “non-
party” members.
A similar condition of affairs exists in
Australia. The Communist party has
always had a second and third line of
leadership ready to take over control in
time of emergency.
In Australia we are dealing with an
organisation which openly recognises and
defines “non-party” membership as a sec-
tion of the machinery which it uses to
carry out Lenin’s injunction:
We must be ready for any and every
sacrifice, and even, if necessary, to practise
trickery, to employ cunning, to resort to
illegal methods, to sometimes even over-
look or conceal the truth —all for the sake
of penetrating the trade-unions and by
all means to carry on the work of Com-
munism.
It must be remembered that the bulk
of the members of the Ironworkers’
Federation, the Coalminers’ Federation,
the Sheetmetal Workers, the Seamen,
the Building Industry Workers and
the Watersiders and other unions have
followed Communist leadership regardless
of all evidence of the seditious wickedness
of its intentions and allowed themselves
to be infiltrated by Communist cells
from the bottom upwards. And it can
be taken for granted that these bodies
and their combinations, such as the
Trades and Labor Councils and the
Australian Labor party, of which they
are affiliates despite their Communist
policies and leadership and infiltration,
will form the chief mechanism through
which the Communists and their sup-
porters will fight the Government ban.
Until the union problem is solved
Communism will continue to be a
menace, whether it is legal or illegal, in
the interests of Russia and as part of the
war on Australia and the rest of the civil-
ised Western world. And the Communist
influence will never die in the unions until
their operations are brought into the day-
light in the same manner as those of
public companies and associations whose
management is responsible for members’
funds. What laws there are governing
the publication of union balance-sheets
and the expenditure of union funds at
present seem to be moribund. And no
measure against the powerful Communist
unions can be effective until properly-
audited financial statements are readily
available to show how union money is
spent and that it is spent legally and not
in causing industrial disruption. It is
a hard fact that dues are about 150 per
cent, higher in Communist than in non-
Communist unions.
But Mr. Menzies, at this early
stage of the big battle, has acted
with the utmost expedition in en-
deavoring to come to grips with the
country’s No, 1 enemy. And it is a
good thing to see that the Government
has recognised that the problem is one
to be handled primarily under defence
powers of the Constitution. As an open-
ing attack the Anti-Red Bill was well
planned and admirably launched.
The Eurasian Gospel.
Most Australians were profoundly grate-
ful to the United States Government
when its representative in Sydney refused
the visiting “Red Dean” a visa for Hono-
lulu on his prospective departure from the
White Australia which his friends in
Moscow would like to see become
Eurasian. He and the Russian Com-
munists are inspired, he tells us,
solely by enthusiasm for peace, to
which apparently White Australia,
along with Britain and America, all
peace-haters, must be viewed as obstacles.
The harm this septuagenarian clerk in
holy orders is doing to the Church Has
yet to be made fully manifest; but that
is the Church’s own business, of which
it will not easily acquit itself. His intru-
sion into Australian political affairs is a
different matter; and if he were not
branded by the company he keeps the
obvious mischief of that intrusion would
no doubt arouse official attention. As
just one more Communist propagandist,
he merely incites the passing hostility of
his audiences. But at a Press conference
in Sydney his observations on Asiatic
immigration into Australia’s “empty
spaces” touched a tender spot in the Aus-
tralian body politic—so tender that Mr.
Calwell believed he could win the late
elections on some much remoter com-
ments by Liberal leaders on administra-
tion of the Immigration Act-
Dr. Screwloose Johnson’s ideas about
the benefits of an Asiatic infusion into
the bloodstream of this Commonwealth
have been familiar for many years. Be-
for the late war he preferred the Japan-
ese. He had apparently heard of empty
spaces in Canada and he thought these
and the northern areas of Australia de-
signed ‘by nature fpr Asiatics. Ques-
tioned in Sydney by Pressmen the other
day he was inclined to hedge, and when
the “S. M, Herald” reported him as say-
ing that the Chinese —the current favorites
of the Kremlin —should be allowed to
populate the empty spaces of Australia,
“if they desire to go there,” he declared
next day that it was “a damned lie” and
corrected it thus:
I said that under conditions of controlled
economy in the land Australia could be
enriched if Chinese thinkers and workers
could come here.
Under the present regime of China there
will be no unemployment. China will have
a planned economy as successful as that of
Russia.
The background to the Communists’
“peace campaign,” in which Dr. Screw-
loose is participating, is, of course, the
current southerly advance of the Chinese
Communist forces into Hainan, the
jumping-off place for attack against Indo-
, China, Siam and Malaya, on the Japanese
model. Dr. Screwloose here picked up
another issue in our domestic politics.
He said that the British campaign in
Malaya against Communist terrorists was
“not necessary,” just as the Australian
Government had become so concerned
with the threat to Australia’s security
from this quarter that it had held itself
out as ready to consider reinforcing the
British anti-terrorist contingent in Malaya.
Moscow’s agents domiciled in this coun-
try have long been mouthing anti-British
“protests,” and their leader, Sharkey, now
in jail after conviction on another treason-
ous charge, was previously prominent in
taking comfort; from his gang to the
Malayan rebels.
The question posed for Australians by
the events on which this avowedly
Christian visitor plays is: By what back-
ing to its diplomatic activities tso far as
the existence of these is suggested by
recent statements from Canberra) does
the Commonwealth Government propose
to make clear its inability to tolerate a
Chinese Communist advance into Malaya
and Singapore, or the Indonesian claim
to Dutch New Guinea? Is it in the
national interests that the electors should
be misled by “cultured” propagandists—
even over the national broadcasting ser-
vice—into believing that their Govern-
ment should simply look the other way?
For the imported disciple of Communism
from Canterbury Cathedral is not the only
offender. During the same weekend in
which the “Red Dean” was irritating
people in every Anglican parish in
Sydney, Mr. Macmahon Ball —now
Professor of Political Science at Mel-
bourne University and formerly one
of the bright boys in Dr. Evatt’s
diplomatic circus—broadcast over the
A.B.C.’s national network a state-
ment that if Australian troops were
sent to help the British in Malaya
“it would tend to light flames
throughout the whole of eastern
Asia.” The freeing of Malaya from
Communist terrorists was described
by Mr. Ball as “a British domestic issue.”
Many Malayans, he, added, were “still
smarting from a sense of insult at the
administration of Australia’s immigration
policy” (under Mr, Calwell, of course,
who thereby trod on every diplomatic
corn on Dr. Evatt’s own splay feet).
“Putting it bluntly,” said Mr. Ball in a
final defeatist sentence, “Britain could, if
need arose, withdraw from Malaya; but
Australia could never withdraw from
east Asia.” The Federal “Labor” party
has since accepted this political lead
holus-bolus.
Mr. Ball was the agent whom Mr.
Chifley’s Government sent two years ago
on a “goodwill mission” to all the coun-
tries in south-east Asia, including, of
course, Malaya. Some effort to restore
goodwill in sub-Asia for Australia was at
the time extremely necessary because of
the rumpus over the
welhan expulsion of Cal '
refugee Malays from AmtSr War ‘ ti me
Australian wife or two amon and a *
the excitable Minister had wrann^V
self in the folds of the Whited hlm '
flag in self-defence. At Kuala UStralia
Mr. Ball was apparently di^ 1 Lum P Ur
the hostility hf^ncototemr Certed
£500,000-worth of supplies and of
fional aid” to the war-wracked south!!?'
Asians. To a Press conference the^ 1
answer to a question whether th e wLl n
Australia policy would • Whlte
Mr, Ball replied : _ d be “attained,
that'she bdoS£ “f™*
likely that thefe will be a cL E e‘i“
trahan opinion in the coming deal 5 ”
lam expressing my personal opinSJ. *
But about administration of the im •
gration laws with humane discretion i'„‘
current particular instances-the '
sentment aroused had made the B-itSi
Comntisstoner-s job there acutely £
"« n aT°1 £ T the >«S”
merenant At the dinner m Johore
Bahru, whtch concluded a vis,t ted S
to two days, Mr. Ball, over a depart f
handshake with Mr. Malcolm P Mac-
Donald, said:
It: / S ual . for a guest when departing to
ft an , k J llB hoBt . for a pleasant evening
Might I, on this occasion. Sir, thank you
for an unpleasant evening. y
To which the British Commissioner;—
it is one of the most unpleasant evenings
we have had for some time.
. The memory ot his “unpleasant even-
ing” evidently remains strongly with Mr
Ball two years later. But there must be
some curiously lax oversight of A.B.C.
commentaries on affairs of high national
interest that Mr. Ball’s ideas should have
been given such wide publicity at such a
time. Dr. Screwloose and his friends of
the Moscow fifth-column should be de-
lighted.
While they are exchanging congratula-
tions it might spoil another pleasant even-
ing to recall that the previous national
broadcast with which-Mr. Ball provoked
some of that Press attention which is
greatly desired even by radio publicists
was one in which, during the post-good-
will-mission period in which he was con-
valescing from a falling-out with Dr.
Evatt, he urged on the Government that
“every possible obstacle should be placed
in the way of people under 16 and over
30 who want to travel abroad.” Only
between these ages, he said, did people
“get any good out of travel.” After 30,
let Dr. Screwloose note, “their minds are
set like concrete.”
The Gag That Came Undone.
Three months ago Mr. McGirr found
newspaper comment on his 70-hour
Press gag “nauseating.” He said that “the
clamor and claptrap in newspapers”
merely emphasised the need for imposing
the ban
at a stage when it is still possible for the
electors to recover from their poison-gas
and adjust himself and herself to actuali-
ties.... Now the electors have 70 Mots in
which to weigh the pros and cons....iner
has been no curtailment of free speech, a
that the Government has done is to promo
the interference of the licentious and bias
Press. It is the Press, not the people, which
is bewailing the change.
That was just before the gag was ap-
plied for the first—and only—tune m
the February batch of by-elections.
Most important of these was tha
the Concord seat, which the ajut-
official paper professed to be so conP |
would be regained by Labor
announced that “the mam impor _
the by-election is the Liberal par y
to hold it as a psychological upMt t
the State elections.” The himse
herselfs of Concord rejected Labor y
a much bigger majority thau th y
year earlier, when M,cGirr attn . p
party’s defeat to irregularities i V
voting and to the fact that he r
arrayed against Lajpor all m iUion
of money could buy P. er^ p p i ecto rate by
organised to fight g b y certain
the private banks, assisted y
their employees. , . jroearah
Earlier, after a defeat in the K g
by-election, he had spoken ojl perhapS
vicious propaganda ot tne ’ Govern-
the most bitter S State,
ment was first established j pend-
Last week, with a general election p^
ing and P ro jPf%n hS ban and dj-
,caucus discussed the 70-h r ropa ganda
cided that although Press F P com .
might be vicious and h
ment on the ban nauseati g» nausea t-
of losing the election wa p e bruary
ing still Mr. McGirr
that his ban may not Concord,
appreciated by the elect . ht f or what it
It was appreciated, all i £ f ree dom ol
wasr—an attempt to supP , _ xhe dec-
expression for party ad j US t as
tors of New South W behind the
readily appreciate the m
revocation of the ban.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Menzies and Moscow.
Wnr the least important feature of Mr.
Menzies’s speech outlining the Govern-
Kent’s Communist-suppression Bill was
S international implications. A Prime
Minister in a British country has not
hitherto spoken from his place m Parha-
‘ nt in such downright terms of Soviet
Russia’s post-war policy and of its
foreign servants in their activities as “the
King’s enemies.”
Mr Menzies s speech places Australia
as much “on guard” as in 1936, when
Hitler’s agents were conducting their
“peace” campaign in this and other de-
mocracies.
Recitals in the preamble to the bill
associate the Australian Communist
party with the “activities or operations”
inculcated by Marx and Lenin — a suffici-
ent connection with the current policy of
the Soviet Russian Government —and in
accordance therewith charge that party
with the design “to bring about the over-
throw or dislocation of the established
system of government of Australia....
by force, violence, intimidation or
fraudulent practices espionage and
sabotage.” The bill, said Mr. Menzies,
“is in a special and most important sense
a law relating to the safety and defence
of Australia.”
It is designed to deal with the King’s
enemies in this country We are not,
except in a technical sense, at peace.
The Soviet Union has perfected the tech-
nique of the “cold war,” has accompanied
it by the organisation of peace demonstra-
tions designed, not to promote true peace,
but to prevent or impair defence prepara-
tions in the democracies. We have wit-
nessed the most threatening events in
Eastern Europe, in Germany, in east and
south-east Asia.
If we have learned nothing from all
these things, there is ' no health in us
It is a childish idea that the fifth-
column springs miraculously into existence
when a war is on. It is carefully prepared
and organised in advance. By strike and
sabotage it conducts its own cold war, and
the success of that war depends upon the
strength or weakness of the nation.
Mr. Menzies buttressed the damning
recitals in the bill’s preamble with quota-
tions from Stalin’s own book advocating,
in the cause of world revolution, the
destruction by Communist adherents out-
side Russia of the social, military and
civil administrative structure of
“bourgeois” (i.e., non-Communist) States.
The only thing Mr. Menzies did not
to his barely-veiled indictment of the
Soviet Russian Government was the
parallel of the Nazi activities before the
last war under a ruler who also wrote
a book as a prescription for world
domination by force and fifth-column
disruption.
Such words from the head of a Gov-
ernment are plainly those of one who has
discarded diplomatic pretences about
peace being assured by international
organisation. They declare a sense in
the Australian Government of the fulfil-
ment of the fears expressed by Mr.
Churchill in a letter to Stalin in April,
1945, just before Churchill was defeated
at the post-war elections of that year:
, There is not much comfort in looking
into a future where you and the countries
you dominate, plus the Communist parties
m many other States, are all drawn up on
one side, and those who rallied to the
tnghsh-speaking nations and their associates
or dominions are on the other Their
quarrel would tear the world [which we
hoped to build] to pieces.
Moscow is carrying its imitation of
Hitler’s tactics in the pre-war years to
which must sound warnings to even
ue blindest in the democracies.
Back, Slightly Battered.
Hanlon’s In-for-Ever party came back
rom the polls on Saturday on a minority
t v , ote > w hh its majority reduced, but with
ne seats of 39 pairs of Parliamentary
pants still glued to the Government
caches, from which it seems nothing less
j, lan a hydrogen-bomb will shift them.
ch -IS f e v * e . w Opposition that the
*• . a dhesive responsible for this posi-
I I 1 ls the Redistribution Act brought in
the Car whereb y the electoral quotas for
, nor them and western zones were
nn]i . e smaller than those for the metro-
an and south-eastern zones.
Sunday night “Labor,”
-jq z yb,3B3 votes, looked like winning
narti eatS ’ . and the Liberal and Country
266,037, could count on, at
j nri ’ j’ tbe °ther two seats went to
of iK nts - Thus, with a deficiency
“Lahn v °tes ip the overall count,
over it sc .°red a majority of at least five
in thp r opponents and of three
more mi ** ouse - Jhe disparity is even
three r rked w hen it is remembered that
men were returned
CoS? ed ’ and that no Liberal or
y*party candidate opposed the Inde-
pendent, Cobum, in Burdekin; “Labor”
contested every seat.
, Assembly of 62 members
Labor had a majority of eight on the
occasions when the Communist Paterson
and the several varieties of Independent
Labor members voted with the Opposi-
tion; in the enlarged Parliament of 75
its likely lead is three. Paterson is gone ;
so are Bames, the “Bundaberg Bomb-
shell, and the Independent Labor mem-
ber for Bulimba, G. Marriott. Munding-
burra Aikens, leader of the North Queens-
land Labor party, was re-elected, but will
have no followers to lead. The other
Independent, Coburn, who won Burdekin
fairly comfortably, is a strong opponent
or the Government.
Premier Hanlon can congratulate him-
self that with “Labor” heads rolling all
over Australia he has “done it again.”
Apart from that he has little to rejoice
about, and “Labor” leaders facing elec-
tions in Tasmania, Victoria and New
South Wales will draw cold comfort from
his “win.”
Communism in Victoria.
There was nothing unexpected in the
findings of Lowe, J., on the operations
of the Communist party in Victoria. His
report comes out at a very awkward
time for that section of the “Labor”
movement which is opposed to banning
the party.
There could have been no other result
from the 158-days inquiry in the light of
the official documents of the party put
before the commission, the evidence of
Sharpley and others and the admissions
and evasions of Communists under cross-
examination. It is made clear that the
grand objective of Communism is armed
overthrow of the Constitution.
The report sets out the progressive
stages by which revolution is to be
attained —the establishment of Com-
munist leadership of the trade-unions,
the use of this leadership for the promo-
tion of political and general strikes and
the education of the mass of workers to
the idea of violence. This would be fol-
lowed by the leadership of wage-earners
in a “revolutionary situation” at a point
when, through the creation of industrial
chaos, the Government would be unable
to govern, whereupon there would be
armed insurrection, the seizure of power
by the Communists implementing a “dic-
tatorship of the proletariat,” the destruc-
tion of the State as we know it and the
expropriation of property and forcible
suppression of the owners who resisted.
Mr. Justice Lowe reported:
Beyond debate, the evidence shows an
aim by the Australian Communist party
and its members, and others who will sup-
port them, to overthrow existing Govern-
ments and smash the State machine.
The report states that there were 200
Communist-party branches in Victoria,
none with large membership. Members
are subject to rigid discipline. There are
youth and women’s branches, including
the Eureka Youth League, and there are
fraternal organisations and evidence of
factions in the Teachers’ Union, the Mel-
bourne University, but none that any
member of the party employed in educa-
tion or in any school or university has
used his position to indoctrinate Com-
munism—a finding which proves how
little that matter was entered into.
Mr. Justice Lowe believes that the
general-secretary of Actors’ Equity, Mr.
Hal Alexander —who several years ago
took a vigorous part in the campaign for
the internment of the unfortunate Aus-
tralia First men —and Mr. Lloyd Lamble,
a well-known stage and radio actor, are
or were party members.
Generally speaking, the report revealed
a conspiracy for violent revolution and
the overthrow of the Constitution to
which fraud, ballot-rigging, forgery, in-
timidation and personal violence and
every kind of public turpitude and
chicanery were merely incidental.
The result of the commission, so
painstakingly conducted on the part of
counsel and so patiently carried through
for 158 days by the Judge, fully justified
Mr. Hollway’s appointment of it. Out
of it has come a very arresting documen-
tation of the main objectives of Com-
munism in Australia which leaves no
doubt that Communism is something
which must be ground into the dust if
the Western civilisation is to continue to
exist.
The New Chief-of-StafF.
The new staff appointments establishing
the change of control in military affairs
following the retirement of General
Sturdee are eminently satisfactory. The
appointment of Lieutenant-General
Rowell as Chief of the General Staff was
announced some time ago. He is one of
the most experienced officers in the Aus-
tralian Permanent Forces in the planning
of major; war, having been Director of
Tactical Studies at the British War Office
during the period of the invasion of
France and the advance against Germany.
As his Deputy-Chief-of-Staff —the Vice-
Chiefship having been abolished —the
Government has chosen Brigadier R. N. L.
Hopkins, C.8.E., Commandant of the
Central District (Adelaide) as from
May I—a choice which throws light on
the direction in which the Defence De-
partment’s thoughts are running.
Brigadier Hopkins—promoted Major-
General on appointment—is one of the
newer generation of permanent soldiers.
((Continued on next page.)
PRE-ELECTION PRESS INTERVIEW
(Minus Gag).
“In my youth,” Uncle Jimmy replied to the lad,
“I stood on our Platform all day;
It’s only the world that has changed for the bad—
That’s why I am standing this way.”


T
v.
"SI
h
9834
Craven 'A’ Quality means
«
smoking enjoyment
CRAVENS
The largest selling cork-tipped cigarette in
the world..
LTD.—— OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
I >
m
'
Born in 1897, he passed through Dun-
troon just in time to be gazetted to the
Sixth Light Horse in 1918. His early
experience, both abroad and after World
War I with Light Horse, and his subse-
quent training have all been in mobile
warfare. He was sent to Quetta Stan
College in 1929, returned for General
Staff service and was allotted to the
Armored Division when it was formed
in 1941. He was responsible wi-
the establishment of the tank-training
facilities and ranges in Victoria and N. S.
Wales, and the next year went to New
Guinea, where he acted as B.G.S. tor tn
planning of the Kokoda Trail and Bu
approach operations. He was Comm -
dant of the Australian Staff College, 19 ■
1946, when he took over comman
the Australian component
the 34th Brigade—in Japan. For the suc-
cess there of the Australian troops
he turned out at a standard com P® ■
with the crack regulars of any J
the world, he was almost entirely P
sible. And when he returned m 1
left a record with the Americans o =
both highly efficient and militarily
ible-minded. The significance .
appointment is that he an e H flexible
particular, of modern mobile and
W H f is to be hoped that the natural coroh
lary to the reorganisation unoe
modernly-thinking soldiers o ®
Australian vintage will be tha
be given a free hand to reorg
the Army and all necessary re
POLITICAL POINTS
It’s three years today since the last
N. S. Wales election, McGirr is now-
governing on borrowed time; in view of
the revulsion of feeling shown against
his party at the Federal elections and at
State by-elections “stolen time” would de-
scribe it better.
Liberal and Country parties in Queens-
land have no need to drop their bundle
at their failure to unseat the Hanlon
Government, They worked together as a
closely-knit team during the election
campaign, polled thousands more votes
than the victorious “Labor” party and
came very close to stopping “Labor’s”
long run. They broke even in the metro-
politan area and won easily in the south-
eastern zone. It was “Labor’s” domination
of the north and west that kept it in
power. Of the 13 northern seats “Labor”
won seven ; Country party, four; Inde-
pendents, two. This reflected the Country
party’s strong campaigning for a northern
new State —in the old Parliament they
held no northern seat at all. In the western
zone, where the quota for an electorate is
4783 compared with 10,715 in the metro-
politan area and 9536 in the south-eastern
zone, “Labor” won nine of the 10 seats.
The Hanlon Government will have a very
small majority in the new Parliament, and
there is eveiy incentive for the Opposition
to keep on its toes.
Paterson, former Communist member
for Bowen, failed badly at the Queens-
land elections on Saturday. He is the
only man ever elected to an Australian
Parliament on a Communist ticket; Jock
Garden, one of the founders and a one-
time secretary of the pary, represented
Cook in the Federal Parliament from 1934
to 1937, but by that time he was an
A.L.P. man and claimed to have put
Communism behind him. Paterson got
into the Queensland Assembly in 1944 by
grace of a split vote and on the back
of the Red Army. He won again in
1947, but on Saturday, in the new seat
of Whitsunday, he ran a bad third to
the Country party and “Labor” candi-
dates.
, 1 0
Another face missing from the new
Assembly will be that of J. F. Barnes,
the “Bundaberg Bombshell,” who repre-
sented Bundaberg for nine years as head
and tail of the Barnes Labor party. His
vanquisher was former Deputy-Premier
and Minister for Transport, E. J. Walsh,
himself defeated three years ago in
Mirani. Aikens, leader of the North
Queensland Labor party, retained his
Mundingburra seat, but none of his fol-
lowers collected more than a handful of
votes. Hadley, former M.H.R. for Lilley,
ran Bruce Pie close in Kedron, but finished
up 400 votes behind,
Menzies’s speech on the second reading
of the Communist-party Dissolution Bill
was not merely notable for the subject-
matter. It was one of the finest pieces of
exposition heard in an Australian Parlia-
ment for many a year. The Prime
Minister at his best, as he was’on this
occasion, ranks with the greatest of Aus-
tralian Parliamentary orators. He is the
only living Australian who could justly
be compared with Deakin or who could
take his place on something like an equal
footing with Winston Churchill.
On the day after Menzies’s introduc-
tion of hig anti-Red bill an announce-
ment that it was “practically the unani-
mous view of the N. S. Wales Parlia-
mentary Labor party that the bill should
be supported by the Federal Labor party”
was described by one Sydney paper as a
“bombshell.” The bomb must have had
a very.long fuse ; two years ago the same
Parliamentary Labor party held up its
hands in horror at an Opposition request
for a royal commission on Communism
and the exclusion of Reds from the pub-
lic service. The change of front be-
tokens a belated awakening to the Com-
munist menace, the eloquence of
Menzies’s presefltation of his case or the
imminence of the State - elections. There
is no prize for arranging these three pos-
sibilities in correct order.
As N. S. Wales caucus seems to ascribe
the Liberal victory in Concord last
February to the McGirr Press gag, it’s
a wonder they don’t draw the obvious
deduction from the lesson —that their best
chance of ensuring a “Labor” victory
at the general election is to gag McGirr.
Ward, at question-time last Thursday,
commented on N.S.W- Opposition-leader
Treatt’s platform-plank of putting value
back into the pound and asked Menzies if
he had told Treatt of his own “failure”
to restore the pound’s buying-power,
Menzies, in’ reply, referred to Treatt as
N. S. Wales’s “incoming Premier,” and
to Ward as inflation’s greatest champion,
Perfectly apt and adequate.
Tasmania goes to the polls on Saturday
with “Labor,” after a 16-year run on the
Treasury benches, facing a strong chal-
lenge from the Liberals under former
Independent R. C. Townley. Under the
Speck’s system of proportional representa-
tion, each of the State’s five Federal
divisions sends six members to the
Assembly. In the old Parliament “Labor”
held 15 seats; Liberals 13; Independents
two. “Labor’s” seats were evenly distri-
buted—three in each electorate —and to
gain an absolute majority the Liberals
would need to win an extra seat in three
divisions; under p.r. a wider disparity
than four-two is virtually impossible. To
win four seats in a division requires
roughly 57 per cent, of the votes. Roy
Morgan’s latest Gallup poll claims, that
55 per cent, of Tasmanians intend to
vote Liberal. . That is an overall figure
for the ■ State; if it is correct there is
every possibility of the necessary 57 per’
cent, being obtained in some electorates.
Darwin and Denison seem the best bets.
If the election results in a sembdeadlock,
with one party holding office at the plea-
sure of Independents or through an Inde-
pendent accepting the Speakership—a
state of affairs which is becoming almost
normal in Tasmania—perhaps a move
may be made to scrap proportional repre-
sentation.
Replying to taunts that-he had been
bribed into joining the Liberal party,
Townley scored rather a neat one at
Launceston:
I am often accused of having different
colors in my coat. I take courage from
another man in history who had many
, colors in his coat and finished up as
Premier and Minister for Agricultur6 in
Egypt.
Joseph had a long innings through fat
years and lean.
Victorian “Labor”-leader Cain in his
policy speech, at Northcote Town Hall,
expressed confidence of victory, but the
reason he advanced for his confidence
was a strange one:
The last meeting I held here—in 1947 —
was no good. It was too big. Whenever
this hall is full I know things are bad. In
1945 we got about 500 or 600 here, and we
swept the State. In 1947 we had 2000 here,
and we lost. Tonight I would say there
are about 1000 here. I think that is an
omen that we will sweep the State again.
Perhaps electoral apathy has been the key
to “Labor’s” past “victories.”
Sweeping the State will be rather a
tall order for a party which holds only
16 seats in a House of 62. Cain esti-
mates he will win seven seats from the
Liberals, and “in addition we will win
seats from the Country party,” with 34 or
35 seats altogether in the new Parliament.
This would entail winning 11 or 12 of the
16 seats now held by the Country party
Honest, John,, you don’t really mean
that, do you?
Strikes. and strikers:
Research Service has produced an analysis of
the Communist share in days and production
lost in Australia during 1946-49. The publica-
tion synchronises neatly with the Federal
Government’s anti-Communist bill and the
Lowe Report on Communism in Victoria.
Research Service shows, by an exhaustive
study of official figures, that in N.S.W. four
out of 11 Communist-controlled unions—iron-
workers, ships’ painters and dockers, water-
siders and F.E.D.-F.A. —whose members make
8.5 per cent, of total union strength (excluding
miners) were responsible for 68 per cent, of
days lost in strikes during the period. Including
the miners, the Comrao-controlled unions (28
per cent, of membership of all unions) caused
88 per cent, of total days lost. These ‘are
N.S.W. figures. For all Australia the Commo
unions’ sabotage in industry is calculated at
75 per cent, of man-days lost in the four years.
Of the membership of Com.-controlled
unions in N.S.W., 66 per cent, is centred in the
key industries of mining, engineering and ship-
ping (including wharves). Adding “other manu-
facturing” industry (which includes ships’
painters and dockers) to these three groups
gives the field in which occurred 99 per Cent,
of all man-day losses caused by Communist-
controlled unions.
It is estimated that Communist executives
control a “striking force” of 97,800 unionists
in N.S.W. and of 233,800 throughout Australia
■ —or 10 per cent, of all persons employed.
While between 1939 and 1949 the average
wages in unions free of Communist control
(relying on arbitration) have risen by 75 per
cent., the wages of strike-preferring Commo
unions have risen, on the average, 71 per cent.
During the four years 1946-49 strikes have
caused Commo unions direct wage losses of
£33 a head. The direct wage-loss brought
about by strikes in other unions has been only
£1 4s. a head. As for the cost of strikes in
union levies, in four N.S.W. Com.-controlled
uniqns the annual contribution averages £3 4s. a
head, and in four non-Communist unions £1 4s.
The progress of Australia is shown in
figures issued by the Victorian Chamber
of Manufactures. In 1939, with a popu-
lation of barely seven million, we made
90 million gallons of beer, or roughly
13 gallons a head. In 1949 we made
147.4 million gallons, and with another
million in population, that was enough to
give every man, woman and child 18|
gallons each. The July coal-strike showed
how Australia refuses to be held back
by little things like that; we promptly
imported five million gallons of bottled
beer from' Britain to make good the
strike loss. Now, if only we could do
that sort of thing with bricks and mortar
we’d —but what’s the use?
The grand old game of passing the
buck goes on. Everybody over the mental
age of 10 in Sydney knows what’s wrong
with the city’s electricity supply, but a
Mr. Ahern, in the Legislative Council,
asked for a Select Committee of 10 to
“make the public aware of the power
problems of this State.” As soon as the
McGirr Government gives, it the chance
the public will show that it is fully aware
of a lot of things.
The N.S.W. McGirrs rushed a bill
through their Parliament to compel bakers
to deliver bread anywhere within three
miles of the bakery, if there’s no other
baker in between. Almost the next day a
butcher won an appeal against a £2O fine
slapped on him under a similar McGirr
law for butchers passed a couple of years
ago. Strange how these devotees of
“controls” run into trouble when they’re
challenged in the courts.
The Commos advertised widely that, by
demonstration in Canberra on the even-
ing of Menzies’s introduction of the Sup-
pression Bill, they were going to do great
things, including (according to the
“Tribune”) “striking this bludgeon from
the hands of Hitler’s would-be imitators
in Australia.” “With the Eureka spirit
flaming high,” they gathered in
and went by. car, plane and train*? 0 ? 1
Federal capital. There the show ®
complete squib, and they all went a
before the bill was introduced
for their comfortable beds—noneh
Communists MenzL'declarod othaf.f 0 thaf.f
Communist plan included destnS.'S
the bourgeoisie; he took pains to f
that this meant the middle-class Pa f
far as the middle-class which depends
fixed salaries is concerned, the Com* °°
wasting their time ; living-costs ha“e S
about done the job for them.
TTie unendorsed L.C.P. candidate f ftr
Malvern in the Victorian election £
dared that State Governments produced
maiiffy ‘ a good deal of expense and hu*
bug.” She (the candidate is Mrs E
cotte Brown) would make dancing
free for all the children of Victoria and
intends to keep on opposing p r j CP( ,
Minister Oldham for the seat until the
people say, “We’d better put Mrs Brown
in, because she won’t give up until w*
do.” It’s easier to wear down a stone
than an electorate.
When the McGirr “Labor” crowd were
agreeing to lift the silly 70-hour pre-
election silence ban from the Press, cer-
tain •of the members were reported to
have said that the McGirr Government
would be attacked for changing its mind
What mind?
Dean Acheson, U.S. Secretary, of
State, is out with a scheme which makes
our Snowy River scheme look like a
toy. Briefly, he wants the U.S. to build
a huge canal, lock and dam system to
allow ocean-going ships to sail right
through the St. 1 Lawrence and Great Lakes
to Chicago. A preliminary estimate of
cost is over 800 million dollars, and there
would be developed electrical power equal
to 8,000,000 h.p. Acheson told Congress
that America must co-operate with
Canada on the project as “an important
step in building up American defence
power.”


%xibt
FIRST IN 1888...
FIRST TO-DAY!
NO OTHER BATTERY
CAN MATCH EXIDE'S
61 YEARS' EXPERIENCE
EXIOE BATTERIES Of AUSTRALIA PIT. LTD, 44 BRIDGE STREET* STDHET
ẃ
ZAWJM
PERSONAL ITEMS
laving aside his judge’s wig today,
tnieht George Edward Rich, after wear-
toe one since 1911. Born in 1863,
on of a canon of Sydney Cathedral, he
graduated B.A. from Sydney University
1 20 From then on “two” was his num-
ber~M.A. in two years, called to the
Bar two years later, took silk in 1911 and
seat on the N.S.W. Supreme Court
Bench and, in two years again, one on
the High Court A K.C.M.G. came his
way in 1932, and in 1936 P.C. He was
one of the first Challis lecturers in Law
at Sydney ’Varsity, and students there
today owe to him the benefit of their
evening classes—he battled hard with
Professor Badham for their establish-
ment. The Judge’s eldest son was killed
in action at Festubert in 1915; the
younger was a captain in Tobruk and
points east in the second dust-up.
There was no better-known figure in
clerical broadcloth on war-time Malta
than Father Emanuel Brincat, who, during
the George Cross island’s travail, was
parish priest of Senglea, one of the worst-
bombed areas—when the Luftwaffe had
been finally driven off, there were left
homes for 1500 out of a population of
13,000. One of his air-raid chores was
to walk calmly through the rubbled streets
at the height of an attack, through the
dust and smoke and flying bricks, reading
his breviary as an inspiration to the em-
battled Malts. In recognition, he was
awarded the M.8.E., and —perhaps higher
honor—escorted the King through his
devastated parish when his Majesty visited
the island. Now in Australia as chaplain
of the Maltese migrant ship Ocean
Triumph, the priest is a calm, deeply-
lined, serious-faced ecclesiast, as humble
as a comma in the Bible.
“Macnell”l first saw Colonel J. S.
Grimshaw, who led the Royal Papuan
Constabulary contingent in Sydney’s
Anzac march, when he marched his 6ft.
of upstanding bulk over our frigate’s
gangplank in Rabaul—we were to take
Administrator Murray on an inspection
tour of Bougainville to see what the
Japs had left My first impression, shared
by the ship’s company, was that the
Papuan force could hardly have got a
man better suited for its chief. Muscled,
upright, gimlet-eyed and with a face like
carven rock which splintered into a grin
of greeting as he stepped aboard, in his
khaki uniform, belted waist and brown
topee circled by a pugaree bright with
the colors of his force, he seemed to us
the embodiment of all the Sanders-
of-the-River characters we’d ever read
about. Behind him, beside him, never
more than a yard away wherever he
or moved, an observant, guarding
shadow, watched the proudest boy in me
constabulary— the colonel’s bodyguard.
n some times, I suppose, but
whether the colonel was on the bridge,
peering up our 4in. barrels or inspecting
me asdic-set, his brown shadow was
behind him. Grimshaw was a
Middle East man, is Commissioner of
dice for Papua and New Guinea, and
a relative of novelist Beatrice.
C. 8.” on the zwarming of the Zwars:
Zw a f nt f ° n )he centenary in Victoria of the
ofSaY^ am l y 15/2/’5O) recalls the influx
eavp *K ns to Austr aha round about 1850, which
seniprc 6 , coun try some of its best farmer-
Rait ; a • rescrri bles, in some ways, the present
of ..uvasicn. Those Saxons -were followers
Emnp™ m .Luther, and revolted against the
Kirw Jf’ changed his religion to become
of L ot Poland, making Saxony the Ulster
presen T’ father of Henry P. Zwar, the
the am .j dydiead ’ took a strenuous part in
Silesian ° Ceec^in ® s ' . When the Emperor sent
Zwar a J Tle rcenaries to suppress the rising,
column^ - - , wt } s in charge of an ammunition
Rave „ n had run out of cannonballs. He
was m^ n< r r . a t ou r-pound scale weight, which
fienerai mmed home and aimed at the Silesian
him fair ° Un l ed on a g re y horse; it struck
demoralise^ 11 chest > wiping him out. This
the p r „! ed , urmy, so the Emperor hired
were then known as Huns. They
and tho , mess as their latter-day descendants,
RrandmJi? ya ists , were defeated. Henry Zwar’s
to on t! At - was bayoneted. Thousands wanted
go to Africa, S. America and the U.S., and
a great number plumped for Australia. These
sent a delegation to the British Parliament
asking how they would be treated in this
country. They were told “as British subjects,”
and the word was honored. The Saxons hired
two ships and started loading. Henry Zwar’s
rather could not get a passport, so he was
planted under a heap of ship’s vegetables. The
ships took six months to reach Australia and
disembark their horde of Saxons, the Zwars
amongst them. These Saxons spread from
Westraha to Queensland. Three Zwar brothers
vent to Adelaide and opened up Tanunda,
Stockwell and other places, and those who came
to Melbourne pioneered* Doncaster, Thomas-
town and Epping, while Zwar pfere carted flour
to the OvenS goldfields, saw the good earth at
Broadford and opened up a section, which is
still in the possession of members of the clan.
Henry Zwar, second in a family of eleven,
milked six cows before and after school, won
a scholarship at night-school and at 14 entered
Melbourne Grammar, but six months later had
to leave school to manage the family farm as
a nipper in short pants. When 15 he was
earning 15s, for a 54-hour week in a tannery.
Later he became a capitalist, owned his own
tanneiy in Preston and became M.L.A. for
his district, while his brother was a member
of the Leg. Council. Another Zwar raised
£400,000 for, and gave 40 years of honorary
service to, the Royal Melbourne Hospital, and
three others have been shire presidents, off and
on, for 75 years. Henry P. Zwar, now 77,
holds the R.S.L.’s Certificate of Merit, the
Australian Gold Medal of Merit, the Victorian
Certificate of Merit and the Limbless Soldiers’
Badge.
Melbourne, which has been dreaming
of a man at least of the international
reputation of Eugene Goossens to con-
duct its State-subsidised orchestra, is likely
to get George Weldon, conductor and
musical-director of the City of Birming-
ham Orchestra. The proposed conductor
is 42, has conducted all the principal
orchestras of England and is a protege
of Sir Malcolm Sargent.
Kenneth Russell Townley, J,, handed
in his A.I.F. uniform in 1945 ; he returns
to the active list, brigadier, to preside
over the Military Court convening at
Manus in June. Hailing from Herberton,
in the far north, he had a shot at teaching
at Toowoomba Grammar Prep. School
before returning north as associate to
Judge Douglas in Townsville. Admitted
to the Bar in 1928, he practised in Towns-
ville till 1941, when he signed-on as a
private, was signed-off medically unfit,
won his way in again, got his commission,
and began an island-tour which ended on
Borneo. When the shouting and the
tumult had died, he returned to legalising,
this time as Judge Advocate at the first
War Crimes Trials held by the Australian
Army, at Morotai. Later he acted as
K. R. TOWNLEY—judge for Manus.
Deputy-Director of Legal Services in that
area, reviewing proceedings of the trials
—a valuable experience for his present
appointment. Back at the Bar in Bris-
bane in 1946, in three years he was on
the Supreme Court bench. Both legalising
and soldiering are in the family—father
a solicitor and Old Digger, grandfather a
magistrate and regular Army officer at
the Indian Mutiny.
This is John L. Watkin, one of Aus-
tralia’s leading flying technicians, whose
recommendation led to the acquisition of
the Convairs. An Adelaide University
product, he graduated there in
mechanical-engineering and later took a
post-graduate course in aeronautical
engineering in England. Two years as
technical assistant in design to Vickers
Aircraft oaved the way to a post on the
J. L. WATKIN —adviser for India.
Australian Air Board. When the Depart-
ment of Civil Aviation was formed Wat-
kin became superintendent of airworthi-
ness and aeronautical engineering; then
T.A.A. took him over. The new India
having become airminded, Nehru looked
around for an adviser to help give his
country wings, and Watkin was selected
to sit on a committee set up to investi-
gate the aviation organisation. He has
plenty of time to see commercial aviation
whizz up to 1000 m.p.h., with parachute-
landings for mum, dad and the kids —
he’s 39.
Something almost as direful as the
theft of one of Clive Evatt’s foundation-
stones recently in Sydney happened at
the laying of a like lump in Hobart the
other day—the name of the honored one
was incorrectly spelt. Lucien Dechaineux
wasn’t unduly worried, however. Prin-
cipal of Hobart Technical College till
1939, he’s been recognised for his 33
years of competent application in the
post, as well as for his heading the
college’s art department, of which he
will remain an examiner. The stone
marks a new four-storied wing, the
Dechaineux ; the Speck’s Premier did the
cementing.
Lofty John Coates, recently arrived in
Melbourne, is an unusual member of the
Coates dynasty of cotton fame. A share-
holder and former sales executive of the
Paisley firm in Glasgow and Vienna, he
threw it in for theosophy, and is now
general secretary of the Theosophical
Society, on a three-years’ lecture-tour of
America and Australasia. His wife
spends most of her time in the same way,
and has just finished a tour of Scotland
and Ireland —she is a sister of Sir Peter
Horlick, who established the malted-milk
industry some years ago in Sydney.
Coates thinks it likely that the cotton
firm, which had mills throughout Europe,
some of which have been taken over by
the Russians, will extend to Australia.
Definitely calling it a day at 76, Arthur
Edgar Leighton, who “retired” as Con-
troller-General of Munitions in 1937, and
was brought back to his shells and bombs
by Hitler. In 1921, before the Fiihrer
had even been envisaged, five men sat
round a table in Melbourne to open the
first meeting of the Munitions Supply
Board; the meeting received little atten-
tion, munitions-making in those days be-
ing regarded as superfluous activity.
When it was convened again in 1942, with
Leighton presiding, the programme which
the 1921 group had initiated was going
full blast. Leighton has been mixed un-
officially in gunpowder plots as far back
as 1903, when he reorganised munition
supplies for Kitchener in India. In War I
he held down a like job as British
Ministry of Munitions consultant, and so
was well-rigged to join the infant Board
of Munitions Supply in Australia. A
pleasant, cultivated,-well-read cove who
explodes round the Royal Melbourne
Golf Club’s bunkers in his spare-time,
you’d never guess he had been interested
for 47 years in the lethal business.
“Jemac”: Kept his last watch in
Sydney, the day before Anzac Day, on
which he was scheduled to march, Rear-
Admiral Henry James Feakes, R.A.N.
(retired), whose right to step out on The
Day stemmed from War I service in
Sydney of Cocos, in cruiser Psyche of
the East Indies Station and as Senior
Naval Officer of the Burmese Coast
Patrol. Learning the naval trade in the
R.N.’s training-ship Worcester, he shifted
to the Red Duster with 11 the P. and O.
line, and made his first Australian land-
fall in the famous clipper Macquarie. In
1907 he joined the infant R.A.N. When,
at noon on September 23, 1911, Parra-
matta, the first of Australia’s destroyers,
struck her Commonwealth Ensign and
hoisted the White Ensign, which Austra-
lian warships were to wear from then
on, Feakes was her captain. He also
commanded H.M.A.S, Brisbane on the
sad occasion in 1924 when she went out-
side Sydney Heads to sink H.M.A.S.
Australia, Other important postings were
captain-superintendent at Flinders, and,
in 1930, Second Member of the Naval
Board; last seagoing command was sea-
plane-carrier Albatross. An officer re-
membered among the tall-talers of his
period as a first-class dit-spinner, he was
a keen lover of history and a very active
member of the Royal Australian Histori-
cal Society; 74 at the Last Trick.
A craggy-faced, white-maned 6ft. 3in.,
James F. Lincoln, president of the Lincoln
Electric Co., Cleveland, Ohio, landed in
Sydney last week ready to tell anybody
interested his views on profit-sharing.
On the working side, he’s here to discuss
plans for the expansion of his company’s
lusty Sydney infant, which, since 1941,
conducted on his principles of boss-worker
relationship, has never had a strike and
has paid out nearly £lOO,OOO in bonuses
to employees. Now 67, built like a bull-
dozer and with energy enough to make
uranium envious, Lincoln’s been running
his home concern since 1914, knows all
the electric-motor and arc-welding
wrinkles like the lines on his face, intends
to personally call on his representatives
throughout Australian capital cities,
lecturing en route, and is, as he looks, a
shirt-sleeved boss.
Into the Silence:
In London, at 86, Gallipoli V.C. Captain
Edward Unwin, C. 8., C.M.G., R.N. If the
name doesn’t mean much to Anzacs, they will
remember an old collier-cum-trooper steaming
bravely out between the lines from Lemnos,
one side a bright new yellow, men on bosun’s
chairs over her side still slapping it on. Her
name was River Clyde, and Unwin was her
commander. She had holes in her sides for
gangways to rest on and reach via a bridge of
lighters to the beach down at the Cape Helles
end. The lighters broke adrift; troops were
drowning under heavy equipment. Regardless
of a searing fire Unwin leaped over and strove
to re-secure the drifting lighters. He collapsed
from cold and exhaustion, recovered on board,
and returned to the water. He joined the Navy
about 1880 and retired in 1920.
At 81, at Bowral (N.S.W.), Justly Rawlings,
for years a front-ranker in Sydney’s business
world and one-time managing-director of
Anthony Hordern’s. Born in Salisbury (Eng.),
he went back to supervise Australia’s show in
the British Empire Exhibition of 1925; the
year he got his C.B.E, His only son died in
World War I.
In Sydney, at 59, Oscar Constans Lundquist,
Sweden’s first Minister to Australia, and,
between 1945-47, her Consul-General in Sydney.
For over 40 years he had moved in the Oppen-
heim atmosphere of the world’s embassies,
attachd in Copenhagen, Moscow, Hamburg,
London, Rotterdam and Calcutta. He came to
Sydney from the Consul-Generalship in London.
At Mt. Gambier (S.A.), at 72, H. C. Linney-
Barber, Old Digger (4th Scottish Rifles) and
governing-director of the S.A. Worsted Mills.
He learnt his business managing a firm in India
for 20 years, and was for a period in Tas-
mania’s Parliament. In 1927, as Mayor of
Launceston, he received the Duke and Duchess
of York, now their Majesties.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INK'S
“Bo”: I had heard that the Army is
a vastly different concern now from what
it was in the old days. None of the old
catch-as-catch-can ways such as grabbing
a civilian-life fitter and giving him a job
in the Army as a cook while a chef was
put to wielding a spanner in a mobile
workshop. But the big point made on
behalf of our modernised Army was that
it cut through red-tape quite ruthlessly,
so that a swaddie had only to wait four
weeks for the return of a defective pay-
book where in the bad old times he’d
have been kept for a full calendar month.
Confirmation of the beautiful simplicity,
the clear thinking, which now pervades
high military circles, comes with the an-
nouncement that the post of Vice-Chief
of the General Staff has been abolished
and replaced by that of Deputy-Chief
of the General Staff. There is, of course,
a vast difference between the two.
Whereas the Vice-Chief merely acted as
“We wont reverse, Colonel—I dropped a stitch last time.”
a full deputy for the chief, the deputy-
chief will act with full power to deputise
for the chief.
* * ♦ ♦
“Übique’s Daughter”: Pre-natal influ-
ence? Had a meal in Colombo during
the war at the home of an Irish couple,
she plump and chatty, he thin and ascetic.
Mrs. O’ joined in the usual Sunday
curry contest, but her husband dealt
gloomily with lettuce, dry toast and an
assortment of pills. “Please don’t worry
about Sean,” chatted Mrs. O’ cosily.
“He’s been faddy about food all his life.
His father was eaten by cannibals in
Africa, just before Sean was born, poor
darling.” She was speaking the truth,
too.
* * * ♦
“Ike Hollar”: What has become of
“the submerged tenth” which was the sub-
ject of much debate and philanthropic
effort in the long ago? Its members
were the no-hopers for whom even small
kids like myself were expected to contri-
bute coppers we felt we could spend better
in other ways; they were regarded as
a burden society must bear in every
generation. They failed completely in
everything but the propagation of little
no-hopers. I have a feeling that in these
days of social service for all the spiritual
descendants of the vanished “tenth” may
be identified as the people who are most
aggressive and vociferous in their de-
mands for their “rights” and complaints
about them being withheld. To be able
to bully and shout instead of having to
whine as their forebears did must give
great satisfaction to spiritual no-hopers.
To me it sounds like the voice of the old
“submerged tenth,” which once swallowed
far too many of my pennies, making an
aggressive noise on a changed world.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Melbourne’s calm acceptance
of the absence of trams over many weeks
set me pondering on how many of the
so-called amenities of modern life are
really essential. I lived some years on a
Borneo island where there were no buses,
trams, trains, gas, electric-light, phones,
cinemas, newspapers or ppstmen, and I
can’t remember that' my life was any less
full than it had been when I enjoyed all
these things. The only feeling I had of
something lacking was on Saturday after-
noons, when I felt restless. Several of
my Australian confreres admitted the
same feeling. After a few hours’ deep
analysis of the unconscious over a few
stengahs we discovered that it was be-
cause of the absence of football-matches.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Becks”: As a serious student of the
daily Press I am accustomed to over-
statements in posters and headlines. When
1 read “Leading Jockey’s Dramatic Deci-
sion” I am no longer disappointed at the
anticlimax contained in the news item
which follows —a breathless announce-
ment that Bobby Shortlegs has turned
down a mount on Spavinia in Saturday’s
big race. It seems, however, that a
change is imminent; the new technique
is to get the anticlimax into the heading.
Thus the “Daily Mirror” on the front
page of its noon edition one day last
week: * “Transport Chaos After Derail-
ment: Scores Late in City.” I suppose
something like a hundred thousand people
travel to town every day on Sydney’s
electric trains. Scores late! A local
cloudburst would put up a better show
than that. I can’t see a very promising
future for the new technique. Nor,
apparently, could the “Mirror” ; its later
editions carried a different front-page
story: “Millions Would Die in Atom
War: Einstein.”
* * * *
“Col M.”: A dry-cleaning firm has
mislaid my raincoat. Six times I had
stumped away from the establishment,
fuming, and muttering that I would never
again trust even a doormat there. On
the seventh call the story had not changed
—the ticket had probably come off the
coat; the garment might therefore be
lying in the factory ; please call again,
However, that interview closed on a note
which makes me look forward to the
“Mind turning the tap off, dear?”
eighth instalment with great satisfaction.
“Of course,” the girl told me, “if by
then we find we have lost your coat
we’ll compromise you.”
* * * *
“Hamer”: In the journalese of
modern sporting writers cricket and foot-
ball teams, boxers and wrestlers, tennis
and golf players, top-line horses, dogs and
sailing-boats do not meet in matches;
they “clash.” As a kind of overflow from
the sporting columns occasionally public
speakers and others make the sound of
cymbals in other parts of the paper. But
surely the limit was reached when a “free
daily,” reporting some local church activi-
ties, announced that two ladies, “winners
of the semi-finals in the knitting compe-
tition organised in aid of the local Red
Cross, will clash in the final at the Church
Stall next Saturday afternoon” If
the papers get wind, of the game of ludo
I have promised to play with a small
granddaughter one night next week they’ll
be certain to record the event as a “clash.”
♦ * * *
“Sackfair”: It was obvious that the dog
was lost; he had no doubt followed some-
body on to a train and eventually found
himself on a platform in Sydney’s under-
ground system. A large terrier, he was
quite friendly, but something was cer-
tainly bothering him ; he kept running to
and fro hurriedly, almost frenziedly. An
elderly, shabby woman who looked to be
*Dne of the type that could be classified
as “rough as bags,' but good-hearted,”
walked to the bubbler and drahk. In-
stantly the dog was at her side, almost
talking with his eyes. “You poor little
mong,” exclaimed the woman. But there
was no utensil available. She i tried to
catch some water in both hands;
immediately the flow stopped—the
bubbler had an automatic cut-off tap. A
tall well-dressed young man put down his
brief-case and stepped forward. “I’ll lift
the dog up while you control the foun-
tain,” he suggested. Together the two
people from completely diverse walks of
life succeeded in their humane action.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: For those who live in
constant fear of swallowing their dentures
there is some comfort in the experience
of a Victorian country doctor. A middle-
aged woman walked into his consulting-
room and calmly told him that her lower
plate was inside her, but not in the place
where it would customarily be expected.
An X-ray confirmed her own diagnosis,
but *within 36 hours the crisis—and the
denture —had passed without an opera-
tion. An earlier experience of the same
g.p. had an even happier outcome. An
elderly lady arrived, allegedly in the same
condition, and an X-ray duly identified
the object in her abdominal region, as
feared. The doctor was at the phone
arranging for hospital accommodation
when the old lady said: “Wait a minute,
doctor: I’ve found them in my pocket! ”
'* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: I’m surprised that English
mummer Robert Morley should express
astonishment that thousands of Sydney-
siders were entertained by watching a
sheepdog putting six sheep in a pen—
“R.A.S.” was there (B 19/4/’<m
obviously enjoyed the show a! * and
of fact, we’re much more easil v ™ atter
than that. I’ve seen hundreds h P H Used
bound on the kerb by nobody m Q Spell '
tacular than a bloke with a wffitf 1 *- 0 '
his mouth standing in a hook and r • in
to the rope being hoisted to the Clln f ln S
a ten-storied building. Traffic r °°*
busy city intersections are never with at
a gallery—any time, any day you’ll tr OU J
small groups wasting minutes just wat h
ing the cop do his stuff. Again aiCa '
P.M.G. cable-jointer always has aro^d
his manhole an interested audience dense
enough to block all pedestrian traffic in
the vicinity and selfish enough to prevent
latecomers like myself getting a decent
possie. And what about ham trolley-
poles? Night or day, when one comes
off the overhead wire it’s inevitable that
dozens of fans will spring from nowhere
to see it put on again.
* * * *
“Nero”: When I was at school in the
days of the seventh Edward there were
three Easts, The Near East stretched
along North Africa, from the meridian of
Greenwich to Arabia; the Middle East
was India and Burma; the Far East
China and Japan together with the jumble
of islands to the south of these and, pre-
sumably, the Mongolias and Siberia.
What has happened to the Near East
Has it gone to join the lost Atlantis.
Nothing irritated me more during the
latest war than to read day after day
of the doings of the forces in the Middle
East, even when they were chasing
Rommel half-way along the Nortn
African coast. A middle which is n
in the middle is an absurdity.
«‘Mullum”: Who said that Australians
don’t sing when they are happy? 1
plenty of blokes singing in Air bore 6
camps during the war. I’ve also .
bank-clerks sing at their work > 1 JL
not while there were customers presen .
On a quiet beach I saw, and h ,
group of young men bellow the r u g
out, and, in spite of the denials ° _
correspondents, I have heard
pants of a bar singing lustily. On
stands out; on no in-
women about. Possibly * e ® ances is
sistence on decorum and app
the reason, or could it be that a f
not really happy in the company
women? *
* * * it T read
“Bagot”: Now I’ll . bell^ e u {ema le
about the difficulty m g and
office-workers. I rang a Perth nrm
asked what time the concer °^ chboar d
business each morning. T a tic k,
lass came back with: Hang
mister, and I’ll find out. *
“Warrandyte”; On Spanish
, dence it is most unlikely that n Y
or Portuguese treasure-ship I Q UeenS land
was ever wrecked on „ ed in ex-
coast. Such ships never eng g folloWe d
ploring unknown waters , |- rom the
sailing directions denyea Mendan a
voyages of Magellan ( o These
(1567), Quiros and Torres (16051 for
gave a general route of Ame ncan
the Pacific crossing f ror P eC , or t on the
coast to Manila. Torres * r he me
shoals, reefs and strong ** south oaS
on his running survey o' * ge forth*
of New Guinea did not enc mb inve stt-
use of this route. during his
gated the treasure-ship rot Cent urion
Pacific raiding-cruise m tion in W
(1740-44) and found conh Sorr y to
successful action off G . dr eam, j 3.
shatter “Sally Jane s Re ef »
facts are facts, and th . ducats
no safe-deposit for Spa
pieces-of-eight.
STAMPEDE.
ẅ
S WILLIAM.


“Sackvil'le St.”: Baldness (B. 12/4/’50)?
I’d scarcely qualified for a vote when my
golliwog hair suddenly began to thin out.
Youth has its vanity. One ofter the
other I tried all the advertised prepara-
tions. The barren patch grew. Some-
body blamed the wearing of a hat. I
joined the no-hat brigade. The barren
patch grew bigger. “Rub your scalp night
and morning with sulphur and lard” was
another suggestion, I did, religiously.
No new sprouts appeared on the dead
heart. “There’s one certain cure,” I was
told. “Get the whole of your head,
shaved.” For weeks after following the
instruction I didn’t dare go anywhere
without a hat; then the hair gradually
returned—except where the desert had
been. A helpful soul informed me that
marrow from a mutton-bone mixed with
kerosene and ground charcoal was in-
fallible—he knew a fellow who, etc. . . .
So, back to the life of a recluse, with my
head colored like P. C. Wren’s legionnaire
gone cafard. Still the erosion spread. A
chain-store advertised electric-combs. The
depression had come on and two and six
was big money, but vanity is a ruthless
mistress; my money was grudgingly
spent. If the comb got any results at all,
it was in extending the scorched-earth
policy. Finally a pretty well-read chap
kt me in on the secret: “There is only
one way to prevent baldness.” I bit—
and got the reply: “Select your parents
more carefully,” Even then he was
wrong: at 73 my dad has a darn sight
more hair than I had 15 years ago.
* * *
Cine Ma”; Commercial candor is
mre in the show business in the metro-
polis, but it sometimes happens in the
country. From an advt. in the Kilmore
(Vic.) local paper:
n thanks a million for the Pat on the
*° all those patrons who congratu-
Sh!r » US on screening of “The Red
rpvp w ? sa y thanks a million—quite a
°f. form in twelve months—and to
aitw }ts who did not have the men-
y t 0 digest the high-class film, don’t
Wkf ir «'^L are catering for you, too, in th'e
Afr ™ °„ Tarzan,” “Mr. Joseph Young of
vn., u . an d many other supports where
your brain won’t be overtaxed.
city movie-house managers who
hnr rnat L some the best pictures with
. ror ™ n ? s anc * s i m il ar offal have the
Pubhcly Pm *° n ’ don’t express it
“M ~****
and ♦ est ” •’ Curious how nicknames
a catctl -phrases remain current within
coast U *r Recent ly rejoined a ship on the
wac atter a long sojourn ashore, and
refer , rnaze ff . t 0 hear a junior engineer
“jo e d°i a wash and brush-up as a
a i.m- a er ‘ 5 The expression immortalises
heldT ° f 20 °- r more y gars ago who
shin f„ ne ,, recorc l in a certain passenger-
come « e trick. He could
a f a ; r watch at 8 p.m. and take up
extendlS nClng Partner by 8.10. His wash
visible d onl y to ffis wrists and the
and fie*** kis neck. In that ship
Baler” 1 a ffnick wash was always a “Joe
i°sl n fnt
with Parliamentary aspirations bought
one that'promised to make him “Sway
great assemblages and make them
obedient to your will.” He had hardly
got through his second lesson when the
fences of his neighbors were lined with
stickybeaks listening to the would-be
orator declaiming in stentorian terms the
turpitude of his political enemies and
‘THIS one , madame , will be a PERFECT likeness!”
pounding the table with his fists to give
emphasis to his points. His wife put up
with it until one of her neighbors volun-
teered her own husband’s services if the
orator showed further violence to her.
Then it dawned on her that her old man’s
elocutionary exercises were being mis-
interpreted, and she had a serious talk
with him. He tried to sell the course at
quarter price, but as far as I know it still
adorns his bookshelf.
* * * *
“Clooter”; I wasn’t particularly im-
pressed by the U.N, Human Rights Com-
mission decision to write into a proposed
“International Human Rights Declara-
tion” an article guaranteeing freedom of
expression ; perhaps because I can’t see
how it’s going to protect me if I call
the local football umpire what I want to
call him when my team’s getting licked
and some big barracker for the other team
slaps a bunch of knuckles into my dial.
I read it out to the missus the other
morn at breakfast. She gave a bit of a
giggle at first; then her face fell into a
sort of deadly and anticipatory calm and
a gleam came into her eyes. Suddenly
she said, “Read that again.” I did.
“Well, I’m in favor of it,” she said
sturdily, “if it allows women to say what
they want to say when the butcher tells
them how much the meat will be.” Maybe
the thing has its points, after all.
“Percy Pawnticket”: Those electric-
belts (B. 12/4/’5O) were succeeded after
a lapse of years by the “electro-vibrators.”
My missus having convinced herself that
she suffered all the ills mentioned in the
advertisements, I became one of the
countless husbands who bought the ex-
pensive contraptions and I spent arm-
aching hours in massaging the lady’s body
with the rollers. The theory was that
the contrivances stirred up the “latent
electricity” in the human body, to its great
benefit; but the main result in our house-
hold was frayed tempers on both sides.
Years later, it used to make me feel sick
when, searching for something useful
among the lumber that piles up in every
home, I would come across these long-
unemployed relics —for some reason
three were bought before the craze
died out. Eventually I quietly garbage-
tinned them when the missus wasn’t look-
ing.
* * ♦ ♦
“Zake”: Some snappy slang phrases
were thrown up by the last war, and I’m
all for most of them —they are to the
point and go off like a whip-crack. Con-
fusion sometimes arises, though, be-
tween a new idiom and an old one.
Whenever I now hear such as “Aw, Bill’s
‘given the game away,’ ” when I barge
into a conversation, I have to wait to
find out whether Bill is fed up and has
tossed it in or whether he has blown
the gaff.
* * * *
“Kelms”; The next sword-swallower
to visit Perth is going to have a mighty
critical audience unless he can emulate
the feat of one of Perth’s immature citi-
zens. Only eighteen months old, and
without any previous training, he masti-
cated and swallowed a safety-razor blade.
"What —burnt bones for tea AGAIN, dear?"
A small piece left over—evidently the
crust—drew attention to his feat, which
was established beyond doubt by X-ray.
Followed a period of careful watching,
during which the particles were recovered
and pieced together until the blade was
complete. The youngster hasn’t expressed
an opinion on the flavor, but his emula-
tors should be careful. He cut his lip—
slightly.
* * * *
“Mayr”: Friday night, according to a
Scots magistrate, is “a terrible night for
wife assaults.” Notable among the cases
that provoked this comment was that of
a man who, married only a week, admitted
that he had thrown beer over his 18-year-
old wife, thrown her on the bed and
punched her. He pleaded that it was the
first time. “What,” asked the magistrate,
“will happen when you’ve been married
a year?”
* * * *
“Chips”: Tenterhooks (B. 29/3/’50)?
As a schoolboy in England a schoolmate
threw my cap over a high fence, and in
retrieving it I tore my finger open from
end to end on what I was told was a
tenterhook, the scar of which I still
carry. Later as an apprentice I fixed
these hooks on top of wooden fences
for the same purpose as broken glass is
cemented to the top of a brick wall.
♦ * * *
“Tummas McNark”: My morning
paper informs me that Suva, where dele-
gates to a “South Pacific Conference”
diet last week, suffered a food shortage,
and “the worst deprivation is the total
beer drought.” This, the paper says, was
because of the non-arrival of the steamer
Matua, which makes a regular run from
New Zealand. With all due respect I
differ, for among the visitors are
columnists from the Sydney daily news-
papers, and to find out what they can
do to food and beer it is necessary only to
read their columns.
* * * *
“Blue P.”; He sat beside me in the
tram and bought a paper at one of the
stops. He went straight to the sporting
section and became immersed in it, read-
ing of the doings of horses, jockeys, foot-
ballers, golfers and so forth for the next
three miles. Suddenly he looked up, dis-
covered that he’d reached his destination,
glanced hurriedly at the front page of the
paper,, then crumpled the whole thing up
and threw it on the seat as he rose to
get out. “Nothing but bloomin’ sport in
the papers these days,” he growled,
catching my eye.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”; At a motor-sports
meeting at Mooliabeenie (W.A.) a com-
petitor’s name was called repeatedly while
the other entrants waited impatiently.
He appeared at last and the field got
away in the car point-to-point race —the
event in which the cars roar up to a
point, change direction, and proceed to
another point, while spectators stand on
one leg and gasp when a car fails to
overturn. The bloke who had delayed
the start didn’t win, but he came as near
to getting killed as most of them, and
there was one spectator who took every
turn with him on one wheel and no eyes.
She was waiting for him at the finish with
a few well-chosen wifely remarks, and he
grinned a trifle sheepishly as he handed
over the passenger who had shared the
race with him —their less-than-a-year-old
baby. “Well,” he defended himself. “I
couldn’t find you and I’m darned sure I
wasn’t going to miss the race.”
* * * *
“G.S.”: Perth railway officials re-
cently stated their firm intention to retain
the “Ladies Only” and “Non-Smoking”
compartments on suburban trains. The
latter at least are justified as the only
compartments in which some of the
present-day pipe-fodder, and its attendant
stench, would be tolerated. But “Ladies
Onlys” I dunno. They’re shunned by
women, who either don’t like the com-
pany of their own sex, or fear that some
stigma attaches to travelling in them. I
suspect the former reason, because let
a solitary male take advantage of the
only empty compartment on a crowded
train and it’s rushed at the next stop.
* * * *
“Pongo”: Oamaru hand-sawn building-
stone (B. 3/4/’5O) was very popular 50
years ago, when the pure white stone was
shipped from the South Island (M.L.)
quarries to all parts of the world. Worked
with carpenters’ saws and chisels, it be-
came reasonably hard-surfaced when dry,
but a proneness to become almost black
with dirt as it aged killed it as a decora-
tive medium in architecture. Nothing
could restore it to its original whiteness.
It was used for steeple, etc., in the
beautifully-proportioned Wesleyan church
at Bondi Junction, Sydney, half a century
ago, but became so discolored that the
stonework has several times been painted
white.
QUITE A POSSIBILITY.
“Apes could be developed into a race of near-
Brittorlj 0 f Virginia University.
The highest animal of all,
Lord of all life on Earth
Holding all other forms in thrall,
So conscious of his worth;
His brain a thing which, he 11 admit,
Gets better a* he climbs
Hn fact, its power is such that it
Quite frightens him at times),
Man hates to think that he was km
In dim and distant past
To lower life, his mould was m
A different pattern cast.
Some claimed that in an ancient time
The proud Colossus, Man,
As something in Devonian slime
His life on earth began;
And that he breathed, not through his nose
But gills; that' he’d no bone.
And looked like objects such as those
That hide beneath a stone.'
That later came his vital lung
Which made his power increase.
Darwin said Man from trees had swung
By simian caudal-piece.
Which latter theory, you will grant—
To judge by some you see
Is really not extravagant.
But such a pedigree
(Even though very strongly proved)
Is something to his shame,
A thing from which he’s far removed —
That is his boastful elaim.
Just what the apes may think of this—
That they’re still far below
Man in his wisdom —we’ll dismiss,
For that we’ll never know.
Then Man evolved' machinery
His precious time to save,
With such pronounced success that he
Has now become its slave.
Too lazy now himself to work
His scientists have hit
Upon a very clever lurk—
Ape-laborers, to wit.
If, following the present trend
And arrogant they get,
You never know, but it may end,
Apes as our masters yet!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Blime”: These blokes scratching up
outsize nuggets at Wedderburn (Vic.)
have got something to answer for. No
sooner do we get our doddering old-
timers acting rational again than the
Wedderburn blokes chuck out another
160 or so ounces in one lump, and after
one squint at the newspaper the old-timers
are packing once more. Old Charlie tells
how they should work a claim like that
one, and Toddling Tommy gabbles about
the way he’d strike the reef if he were
there. That starts Sandy remembering
the heavy gold-bearing stone he covered
over years ago in the Forgotten Ranges,
and Dick recalls the fortune he’d just got
on to in Placer Gully when he got
“permonia,” and a lot of interfering cows
packed him out to hospital. They argue
for hours about gold in behind God-
knowswhere that only calls for a semi-
trailer to cart it-out, and dust you cohld
collect by the hatful in a place no one
knows but them. For hours I’ve put up
with old Charlie telling about an outcrop
he covered years ago on the corner of a
big company’s lease out back of beyond.
Now the lease has expired, and there’s
nothing to stop anyone working the area
—that’s if they knew where the gold is.
And Charlie knows. He wants me to go
out with him. It’s a silly flamin’ idea,
but —well, it could be there. Charlie
reckons the company wasn’t on- the main
lode, and even if we only dig out a
hundredweight or so of the stuff, it’ll be
something. I tell him I won’t go, and yet
—yet, well, as I’ve said a dozen times,
blast those Wedderburn blokes!
* * * *
“Stunner”: “L.T.” (B. 12/4/’5O) is
astray in his reference to Cape Barren
Islanders; they are not half-castes, nor
all descended from Tasmanians. No
doubt some owe their color to Tasmanian
blood, but the task of distinguishing
which, and the classification of the rest
according to the countries that gave birth
to their ancestors, would keep an anthro-
pologist busy for a lifetime. In Aus-
tralia’s early days the Bass Strait islands
were used as a base by crews of tough
seamen who pursued a variety of occupa-
tions ranging from sealing to piracy, and
who touched at many lands in their work.
From these places they picked up women,
often forcibly—from South America, the
East Indies, South Sea islands, as well as
Tasmania and Australia—and they
dumped them on the Bass Strait islands to
have their children, while they carried on
their various tasks. Thus the dark-
skinned people of these islands are a very
mixed lot* whose full history, if it could
be written, would probably be classed
with the tales of Baron Munchausen.
* * * *
The Pirate ’: In an effort to determine
the growth and movements of barracoota,
the crew of the C.5.1.R.0.’s fishery re-
search vessel Liaweenee have for the past
few weeks been tagging upwards of 200
fish a day outside Port Phillip Heads.
The task aboard the 65ft. white-hulled
diesel trawler is not easy because of the
’coota’s large teeth and knife-like gills
and the fact they don’t live long out of
water. After each fish is hooked, lifted
on deck and measured, one man holds its
hfead and another its tail while a
numbered tag is attached to the tail-fin
with silver wire. Those scaley-backs
which fall off hooks on deck are not
thrown back, as they shed too many
scales, but are attended to by Blue, the
ship’s dog, who drags them out of the
way of his shipmates by the tail into the
scuppers.
* * ♦ #
“Salmon Gums”: In the Westralian
Wheatbelt, where I’ve done a lot of fenc-
ing one time and another, the cockies
reckon jamwood-posts will outlast prac-
tically any other timber except wodgil,
which is hard to get in any quantity. I’ve
seen fences that were in good shape 40
years after they were run, and I’ve seen
jam-posts railed across to South Aus-
tralia to a bloke who reckoned the local
timber wasn’t good enough. So, when a
“Good job for you I can't climb.”
friend asked my advice on fencing his
20-odd acres at Belmont, a Perth suburb,
I said jam, and helped him to get the
posts. That was five years ago, and the
posts are now rotten and white-ant-eaten,
while his neighbor’s jarrah-posts are as
good as ever. I’m not worrying about a
lost reputation—it could have happened
to any man—but I’d like to know why
those posts let me down. In the district
in which they were grown they’d have
lasted 10 times as long, and if there aren’t
more termites in the wheatbelt than there
are around Perth, at least there’s more
evidence of them. The reason my lie in
the difference in soil—Perth sand as
against wheatbelt loam —or in the dif-
ference in termites. After years of
battling with St. George’s Terrace cockles
and land-agents, Perth’s termites are
probably hungry enough to tackle any-
thing.
* * ♦ *
“Solitude”: I cut through the river
scrub and, breasting Mt. Baldy, came on
Seventyfiver squatted on a rock looking
like the last rose of summer—red,
withered and so blooming alone. “Just
waitin’ t’ see if Blue gets that rabbit,” he
said. “I burnt the log the blighter lived
in, and it ain’t got sense enough t’ go
somewhere else. Y’ know, Sol,” he went
on, when, swinging on to his nag, we
started homeward, “animals is clean
barmy like that. Get used t’ the one
place, and won’t live nowhere else. You
take wallabies, an’ lizards, or bees, or
anythin’ y’ like nearly, an’ they’re all the
flamin’ same. Yair, an’ even ants. Silly
damn’ things walk miles t’ get home at
night, an’ all piles inter a overcrowded
bed ’cos they’re used t’ doin’ it, when
their commonsense ought t’ tell ’em they
only got t’ walk back again in the
mornin’.” We made the foot of the slope,
cantered down the four-mile gully and
eased for the next range, “That’s why
they play them tricks on pigeons an’
things,” the old bloke resumed. “They
know the silly little cows’ll insist on
gettin’ back where they know the place.
An’ rabbits an’ ’roos is the same—they
get sort o’ lost if y’ block ’em from their
usual runs.” We crossed two more ridges,
splashed through the creek, and headed
up the slope towards the old bloke’s hut.
“Don’t know what you built your hut
away up here for,” I complained, “Why
dorv’t you shift it down into the shelter of
the creek, where you’d be near water? Or
you could use the big salt hut.” “Aw,
don’t be mad, Sol,” he scowled resent-
fully. “I been in that hut longer’n you
c’n remember, and I ain’t goin’ t’ shift
out for nobody.”
* * * *
“Kelms”; Otto Frisch, “one of the
world’s leading atom scientists” (there
must be thousands of the species), says
there’s no danger of the earth “going off”
one day. The basic elements are all,
apparently, quite stable, and no conceiv-
able heat or blow could generate —if
that’s the word —an atomic explosion.
That’s nice to know. From a human
viewpoint, however, there’s a nearer and
more tangible danger, and some scientists
are already discussing the possibility of
the world turning turtle, overbalancing by
*the weight of the accumulation of ice at
each pole. Petef- Scott, grandson of the
famous polar explorer, recently brought
back from the Arctic evidence of a
previous state of vegetation in that now-
desolate region, and this, supported by
the knowledge of coal deposits in
Antarctica, suggests a previous disposition
of the globe, with the poles then occupy-
ing the equatorial position. If the world
turned over once, presumably it can do
so again, and while the cause could have
been any of a variety of catastrophes,
from a gigantic earthquake tp the capture
or destruction of a satellite, it seems that
there’s just about sufficient weight at the
poles to do the trick. One estimate is that
there’s enough polar ice, if melted, to
raise the oceans of the world 150 ft.,
which would submerge most of the exist-
ing big cities. For the first time in history
man controls a force capable of protect-
ing himself from the whims of nature, if
he’ll stop warring long enough to make
use of it. Atomic power could probably
hold the ice-caps at their present levels.
Will the introduction of r
aviary bring about a brS ■ lhe
friendly relations. He will q 111 tbe
lady’s favors, yet watch with calm
ment while, scorning
carncs on affairs with his f ’ *, e
when a second female comes in tw 5 s
ruption occurs. The two ladies can L dlS '
agree over, who owns whinh Can never
Then the fight startslt’JSjW®-
up as a rough-and-tumble on the fl 0 ™ s
gory encounter that can end fatal)v V
the fight is strictly for ladies only-
male neither participates nor encoJl™ he
When the eggs are being laid hi ra^es '
often indulges in
other boy-friend, but no jealous
arise on that account. As incubating S
on, a proud-father
the recognised husband; he tL
around the nest-box, takes a peen in
occasionally, but draws the line I Z?
a bn of baby-sitting himsdf aft
doesn t mind chewing up a few mouthfuls
of mifiet and regurgitating them back to
the nursing mother. It is when £
fnp Ct Jb eS It - 0n a male mate > accompany-
ing the cissy procedure with kissi™
Sf S i Ur f ’ f 1 that conte mptuous 12
that the sight of a Cornel Wilde haircut
arouses m me. 1
* * * *
r “u laX - l ?, r be il frora me to And any
fault with Gloria Rawlinson’s beautiful
verses (B. 19/4/’5O), but I can’t help
wondering if the surviving wekas have
changed their habits since my childhood
in Maoriland. We never looked for them
in gorse or bracken; gorse is an in-
troduced pest which not only covers the
land where it grows with an impenetrable
prickly thicket, but dries out the soil so
that little will grow near it. Wekas were
usually to be found in or near swamps,
and, although probably classed as a land-
rail, like all this great family wherever
found' they obtain much of their food in
damp places. The commonest night sound
throughout Maoriland was the mournful
chorus of KA-wek, ka~wek, ka-wek
coming from the fringes of the huge
raupo swamps; but I believe it is no
longer heard, the lively little brown birds
being almost extinct. The draining of the
‘swamps and the silly belief that their oil
was good for rheumatism have extermin-
ated them,
% ifc He ♦
“Nubis”; I know all bachelor cow-
cockies are eccentric, and for a long time
I thought Bill was the exception. Went
over the other day to borrow a hayrake.
“Sure,” he said, “I’ll come down with
you. But just wait till I change me cats.”
Mystified, I followed him into an out-
building, where a parrot-cage contained
six lively kittens ; outside prowled a gaunt
tabby. Without a word Bill caught the
mog, put her in the cage and then re-
leased the captive kittens. “She had ’em
in the bush,” he explained, “and she
won’t leave ’em at the house; she carts
’em away and hides ’em. But I’ve tricked
her now. I give her two hours in and two
hours out, and when she’s in the kittens
are out, and when she’s out they’re in.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Wanting a house built, Ken
visited the two builders the town boasted,
collected information from each, then
joined the mob in the bar. “Anyone know
anything about old Nailer or the ne
builder?” he asked loudly. “Which
best for a job?” He collected little t
couple of rounds, then the opinions c.
more readily. “Well, they tell ■ me J N
works awright,” Robbie contributed,
by cripes he’s dear.” “I know, uc j,
Ken. “Should be locked U P ther
flamin’ daylight robbery, and tn
bloke’s worse. But whats the
like?” From his seat m c 0 on
Charlie leaned over and tapped K „
the shoulder. “If you want a job*o,
he whispered shrewdly, “you get „
bloke.” “Well, I know who > Id a ’ r
Ted Hastings joined in. Uld 'ht
He’s been buildin’ all his life rharlie
to know the job be now. ke » he
leaned forward. “The new t ,J r jbs,
told Ken, with a knowing dig ..Q> on ,
“He’s your man. I’m tellm y • , xed,
Nailer’s done more houses, »^ n£ j I
scowling defiantly at Cham • built
know houses. When I wante th !f co untry-
I inspected y houses all °^ ei * country
Big’ns, little’ns, town ?
houses, everythin ; an A oo f s a n
Nailer. Cripes, he’s made hip r 0 up
hip-an’-valley, and he tbat
chimbleys ; an’ what’s mo ,
hall in Main-street, he du pt o
“Yair?” s S iff Charlie, mfgbt’ve
table a winning hand. * ove r m
But that new bloke built a 0 n \
Rabbitscratch last year,
leak !”
RAILWAY REFRAIN.
The subway spills a human stream
The tidal trains swing home at night;
It pours, divided, hurrying, grim
To darkness; distance drums its flight.
Flotsam, I follow, idly note
Suburban names in sullen glow
Across the station calendar.
Stale litanies in rigid row,
And start, a rhythmic roll to see,
In such poor prose, a lyric lurk;
Reading again the rich refrain
Of Wellington, Dubbo, Nyngan, Bourke.
Wellington, Dubbo, Nyngan, Bourke —
A tune to pipe for wandering feet,
A key that opens wide the door
Of space and time for heart’s retreat.
Wellington, Dubbo, Nyngan, Bourke —•
A call to climb the high Blue Stair,
Cross sunny slopes and sinuous plains,
To hurry from hurry nor care for care.
Blue herons flap a lazy flag
Where western streams sprawl in the heat,
The long lands drone a monotone,
The tide of summer moves the wheat.
The shining steelway spurns the miles
That pioneers have toiled to wrest
From drought and danger; not alone
He travels now who seeks the west.
For rising from the dust of time,
Convict, explorer, digger, all
(They march to dumb and broken drums.
The living dead, come at a call.
Majestically the mail moves out,
Its pulsing pistons throb and jerk—
WELL-ing-ton, DUB-
bo. NYN-gan, BOUR-ke!
Wellington, Dubbo, Nyngan, Bourke,
The couplings jingle, the buffers beat
And, Wellington, Dubbo, Nyngan, Bourke,
The wheels in quickening time repeat.
N.S.W.
R. D. MURPHY.


“Double F.”: The pars by “Iron
Knob” (B. 22/ 3/ ’5O) and “Kelms” (B.
12/4/’5O) about bins half-empty and gates
half-shut have started something in our
home. The young hopeful claims he has
the answer. He plays the fiddle and says
that a full tone is five-fifths of the similar
interval bn, the piano. And Mum wants
tb know if a man half-sober is in the
same state of inebriation as a man half-
drunk.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Watch even a light
breeze rippling over the ocean and you’ll
find it hard to believe that in a heavy gale
the waves outstrip the wind that creates
them. But such is a fact, and it has been
made use of by an English scientist who,
by means of a wave-recorder placed on
the ooean-floor, can detect the presence Of
storms far out at sea. He gets his in-
formation chiefly from the “ground
swells” which, he estimates, sweep along
dt about 70 miles per hour and keep
going until they strike a coastline. Pearl-
divers will probably agree with him. The
first warning of an approaching storm
always comes from the diver, who feels
the swell, and can judge fairly accurately
the strength of the wind‘behind it. No
lugger captain will ignore the warning
when his diver suggests they should up-
stick and run for it.
*** ■ *
“F.M.”: Never in the memory of
Marble Bar’s oldest residents can it be
recalled that the boast of living in Aus-
tralia’s hottest town (that is, judging by
the greatest number of days with the tem-
perature over 100 degrees during the
period between December 1 and March
31) was proved wrong by official figures.
But this year Winning Pool shaded
Marble Bar by one day with tally of
1L days out of the 121, and, at one
“You'd better cut down their feed or We're sunk."
t w - ’ centuries in succession. Also
Kntw j Pool register the State’s
monfk —l*? degrees. In the three
had si J anuar y to March, Marble Bar
with out 90 over the century,
over rUn days degrees or
* * * *
nishf at S ate ” : We were staying over-
br anch-Hn N ! rro^ i ? e ’ having to go b y
Went to P ar k es next day, and we
°rth and listened to a couple of
rival candidates in an election that
happened to be on at the time. When we
got back to the pub each of them, with
his offsiders, was in the bar and every-
body seemed to be happy. Mat, pushing
up to get us a couple of drinks, en-
countered a chap who eyed him coldly
and said, “Who’re you?” Mat
eyed him back and said, “Well,
accordin’ to that bloke I’m a lohg-
suft'erin’ victim of capitalist exploita-
tion an’ if I don’t throw off me yoke
I’m a goner; but accordin’ 1 to that other
bloke—the one just payin’ for drinks —
I’m a stooge for rantin’ red-raggers, an’ if
I don’t look out they’ll trample over me
body t’ gain power an’ disruption. Now
me an’ my mate want a drink. Y’ can see
by what each of them blokes said that we
got nothin’ t’ lose whichever way she
goes, so we don’t give a blank. I’d just
as soon thump you as anyone else,
because you can’t be on my side anyhow.
Do I thump y’ or do I get t’ the bar t’ get
them drinks.” He got to the bar and got
the drinks.
* ♦ * ♦
“Betcha”: Met up with a fox too sure
of his foxiness the other day. Several
times previously the greyhounds had put
him up and run him into a patch of fern
on the edge of the flat. There Johnny
had paused for a minute or two till the
runners, following their usual practice,
had skirted the patch and gained the
further side; then he quietly emerged at
his point of entry, and, with the sub-
stantial lead, gained the comparative
safety of rough country. The day of his
downfall I had left the runners at home,
and was mustering the paddock with a
couple of sheepdogs. The fox was
sighted, and after a long run”took refuge
in the fern-patch. A couple of minutes’
wait, then he doubled as usuail, slipped
through the tussocks and dropped over
a bank fair on to the sheepdogs, still
lumbering along in ludicrous pursuit. The
mongs were as much taken back as
Johnny at the turn of events, but the odds
were in their favor in the scrap that fol-
lowed. i
% He * *
“Luverley”: Murky and I are sultana-
snatching. The boss’s wife never uses any
adjective other than “lovely.” She tells
us how lucky we are to work for so
“lovely” a boss, pick so “lovely” a crop,
and earn such “lovely” cheques. Natur-
ally we became wary of all things
“lovely,” so when the boss’s wife asked
two girls over to meet us, luring them
with “not ordinary pickers, love, but two
lovely students,” we acquired migraine,
mumps and/or measles. Murky thought
of fabricating a wife, too, but gave that
away when she called in her “lovely”
doctor and he turned out to be a pal of
our dad’s. Trapped! No escape from
the lovely evening with the lovely girls.
Know what? It was. They are. Well
be seeing them when we are all back in
the city.
* * * *
“B, A. Ker”: The rain hadn’t ceased
for three days, and everything readable in
the hut had been read and reread. Even
the adverts, on the back of two tattered
magazines were being studied. That’s
how the argument started: were any of
’em fair-dinkum? Could this bloke really
make you taller? Was it possible to
learn to be a ventriloquist or did you
have to be born with the gift? Could
these fellows really expand your chest
sin. by correspondence? The general im-
pression was: He couldn’t; you had to
be ; and they could not. But Long Charlie
did not agree with the majority verdict.
“Some of them adverts, are fair-dinkum,”
he asserted. “I wrote about one once, A
fellow used to advertise: ‘I can make you
a finished boxer in twelve lessons.’ Every
young bloke gets the idea he’d like to be
a pug; I sent my three guineas. The
lessons came back by mail in proper
order. In No. 1 you stood like the bloke
in the diagram, then you moved your
left foot to ‘A’ and your right to ‘B.’
You shot your left fist forward as in
Fig. 3, keeping your right glove high
(see Fig. 4); and so on. After studying
all the lessons and practising for hours I
knew the bloke hadn’t rooked me: I
really, was a finished boxer. About that
Sib Black
“ It's no use making a fuss, Elsie ; I've definitely gone native."
time a flash young cove moved into the
shack,down the road. Fancied himself
as a boxer, his old man told mine, and
of course the two old blokes started
skitin’. It finished up with the two of us
putting the gloves on, one Sunday morn-
ing. As soon as he put his hands up I
knew the young fellow couldn’t box. 1
just put my left foot in ‘A’ position, shot
out my left glove as in Fig. 3—and that’s
when everything went black; except for
the pretty lights that danced up and
down like golden yo-yos. The ad. was
fair-dinkum all right: I was a finished
boxer—l’ve never boxed since.”
* * * *
“Zake”; Ancient ewe is being passed
off as lamb nowadays in Sydney shops,
yet the moans of those who have to chew
the stuff don’t seem to be as loud as those
of the beef-eaters who complain volubly
of steak “as tough as a working bullock.”
Actually, prime steak can come off a
working bullock. It was a common prac-
tice up on the N.S.W. northern rivers
to buy pensioned-off working-bullocks
and fatten them up. Captain and Baldy
took their ease like gentlemen, and, well-
fed and slothful after their life of toil,
they quickly grew mud-fat. It is often
the lively steer who, in the exuberance
of his spirits, runs all the condition off
himself that produces steaks that bounce
off the teeth.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Jimmy and Tow were
sent out scrub-cutting for the sheep in a
back paddock where Jimmy, who hadn’t
known Tow until then, discovered that he
was the most talkative cove north of the
Murray. All day and half the night Tow
talked, and Jimmy put up with it as best
he could. One afternoon Jimmy was in a
clump of Argyle-apple and heard Tow
yelling, so he went up the hill and found
that Tow had sliced off a piece of his
right calf with the axe. Jimmy used their
handkerchiefs —none too clean —and got
Tow to the camp, where he tied up the
leg with bits of a clean shirt, dabbed
Stockholm-tar on it, put Tow in the
sulky and drove him 18 miles to town and
the doctor. The doctor shuddered at the
sight of Jimmy’s doctoring, cleaned the
wound and rebound it, then said, “I’d
better give him a shot of anti-tetanus.”
“Anti what?” asked Jimmy. “It’s to stop
lockjaw,” the doctor explained. “Well, I
suppose y’ know what y’re doin’,” Jimmy
said, “but if you had t’ put up with the
cow like me, y’ wouldn’t want t’ stop his
jaw lockin’,”
* * ♦ *
“Max”: There is nothing unusual in
the nesting of some small birds in the
autumn (B. 12/4/’5O). Blue wrens in
particular will carry on until the cold
weather sets in when the season is a wet
and lush one, as it has been this year. My
bird-notes over a long period of years in
one garden contain references to this habit
in good years. Nests are made as enthusi-
astically as in the spring, feeding is
carried on attentively, often assisted by
young aunts or uncles from the summer
clutches; but the late brood seldom
reaches maturity. A sudden cold snap
sends the grown-ups to shelter in warm
shrubby spots, and the latest arrivals
usually perish in the nest or disappear
from the scene one by one if they have
reached flying stage.
* * * *
“Simon”: Stringybark roofs (B,
5/4/’50)? We found the best way was
to strip the stringy sheets into 6ft. lengths.
To take the natural curl out of it they
were placed in orderly stacks, sap-side
down, and heavily weighted with logs or
rocks. Ever after they remained as flat
as a sheet of iron. The careful farmer
usually had a few sheets stored away in
a barn for replacements. Though quite
weatherproof, these roofs readily caught
fire from flying sparks, and have been
known to “fire” in a dry thunderstorm.
* * * ♦
“Bo”: “Y’ strike some lazy cows in yT
travels,” said “Bunnadoo” Bob. “Ran
into a bloke who was replacing all the
white-ant-eaten posts of his fence. He’d
got ’em up, and, when he was startin’ to
bore the holes! in ’em he trained hfs foxie
to pick up the brace-and-bit with his
teeth and pass it to him after he’d put it
down to roll a smoke. Reckoned it saved
him pickin’ it up. I’m passin’ that way a
few weeks later and I see his foxie’s gone,
but one p’ these Great Danes is with him.
Ha was trainin’ the new dawg to pick up
the brace, ‘What happened to y’r little
foxie?’ I asked him. ‘Picked up a tick or
a bait?’ ‘Aw, no,’ the bloke says, T still
got him, but I took him off this job. Y’
see, with this bfg bloke I won’t have to
.bend down to take the brace an’ bit off
him.’ ”
* * * ♦
“8.A.K.”: Another pitfall for the
chap who claims to be able to box the
compass by noting the fungi on tree-
trunks (B. 29/3/’5O) is the influence of
local conditions. I know a paddock
where the dead trees stand in broken-
limbed decay. One in every three of the
tree-trunks, on an average, bears a crop
of those dirty-white fungi that grow semi-
circular in shape and vary from half an
inch to an inch and a quarter in radius.
And every individual fungus growth is
attached to the southern side of the tree
—the quarter from which general rain in-
variably comes in that district, A scout-
master would find his theory completely
vindicated there. But I also know a
mountain valley where fungi grow on
isolated dead trees that stand on both
sides of the little-used road. On the right-
hand side the fungus growth faces the
road, nor is there a vestige of fungi
behind the trunks. . On the left-hand side,
however, the fungi also face the road,
with no growth elsewhere. And, as a
matter of fact, the sides bearing fungi are
facing almost due east and west. I may
be entirely wrong, but my solution is
that the rain in that locality comes from
the mountains on both sides of the valley,
that fungus growth needs merely copious
water, and the position of the sun has
very little bearing on the matter.
THE HORSE TEAMS.
The lorries have taken over
The tasks of the western roads;
The mobs of the overland drover,
The wool of the ten-ton loads.
In a world that is fraught with changes
We hear no more on the plains,
n n the sandhill edge, on the ranges.
The chink of the wagon-chains.
it is only in idle fancies
And only in wistful dreams
That we hear in those vast expanses
The tramp, of the twelve-horse teams,
Arih see, where the sunlight quivers,
The fall of the greenhide whips
Where down by the Border rivers
Come rocking the Queensland clips.
But who can forget the beauty
Of that long and patient yoke,
All collared and chained for duty
An hour ere the magpies woke—
The proud heads bent in endeavor,
The shoulders taking the strain
With never a balk and never
The shame of an idle chain?
And who can forget them splashing
Their way through the swamps in flood
With spreaders behind them thrashing
And the great wheels caked in mud?
And surely one still remembers ,
The campfire’s golden spread
And the last of its glowing embers,
And the bells where the tired teams fed.
By the collar-galls on their shoulders
That tell of the testing years
These were the nation-moulders
And these were the pioneers!
Now they rest in some golden far-ness,
Knee-deep in the asphodels,
Where none shall buckle their harness
And none shall follow their bells.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


u
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Rawe»
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;,G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman) |
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, MiA., LL.B., K.C.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdcry.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Safeguard your Estate
by appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor of y°
- Continuity Expert Management Impaf
- Continuous Audit Moderate Charges Fidelity to
Write or call for free booklet.
Advantages:
Accessibility
Security
Secrecy
Will-
Trust
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company
ẁ
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDN
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £966,706
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd.
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.*
Dividends \ To Re-
Dec.. Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Reserves.
1943.. 13ia30 6 p.c. 5 p.C. 115,000 16,130 1.5£0,867
Added reserve subsidiaries, £9,806 1>350,0b.i
1944.. 128,709 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 13,709
Added reserve subsidiaries, £5492 1,369,864
Written off colliery, £13,395 .. 1,356,469
1945.. 123,716 6 p.c. 4|p.c. 105,000 18,715 1,375,185
Added reserves subsidS., £34,121.. 1,409,306
Written off colliery, £23,991 .. 1,385,315
1946.. 163,934 6 p.c. 105,000 58,934 1,444,249
Profit sale shares, £lOO,OOO .. 1,544,249
Added reserves subsids., £70,195.. 1,614,444
Unexplained to genl. res., £12,936 1,627,380
Written off colliery, £9024 .. 1,618,356
1947.. 163,037 6 p c. 4ip.c. 105,000 58,037 1,676,393
Reduction res. subsids., £3802.. 1,672,591
Unexplained to genl. res., £35,985 1,708,576
Written off colliery, £9212 .. 1,699,364
1948.. 167,912 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 52,912 1,752,276
Unexplained to genl. res., £670 .. 1.752,946
Added reserves subsids.. £34,044 .. 1,786,990
1949.. 125,674 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 135,000 1,777,664
* After deducting outside interests.
Income from a wide range of share-
holdings—shipping, coal, steel, sugar-
growing and -milling, cement and blue
metal —are supplemented by the co.’s
own merchandising activities and its
earnings as agent for the subsidiaries and
others; air bookings for A.N.A. and
T.A.A. have just been added to the
agency list.
A feature of the accounts over
each of the last five years is the
inclusion of profits earned in prior
periods, being mainly subsidies connected
with shipping and coal. Here are the
figures as published documents show
them:
f —P rofit 1
Claimed Previous
for Years. Years. Total.
1945 .. .. £73,830 £49,886 £123,716
1946 .. .I 116.725 47,209 163,934
1947 .. 132,091 30,946 163,037
1948 .. .. 86,144 81,768 167,912
1949 .. .. 115,208 10,466 125,674
Total profits for the five years averaged
£148,852, or £23,178 more than last year’s
figure, which suffered a reduction of
£71,302 in respect of prior earnings and
benefited by a gain of £29,064 from
actual trading, etc. Also, the £125,674
of total profit (5.5 p.c. on ord. capital
after deducting the pref. div.) leaves out
of the reckoning net unexplained addi-
tions to reserves totalling £34,714. In-
cluding this last-mentioned figure, the
year’s profit was £160,388 (down
£30,495), or enough to cover the pref.
div. and 7.2 p.c. on ord. capital, as against
8.7, 7.5, 6.2 and 4.2 p.c. back to 1945.
The allowance for depreciation was
£111,937 (up £14,633), and for taxation
£54,855 (up £18,106). So nothing was
strained when the board added a bonus
of 1 p.c. to the 5 p.c. div., making 6 p.c.
for the year. After paying final divs.
the group finished up with reserves
£25,388 stronger than at the previous
balance.
The parent’s own accounts show a
profit of £162,619 (up £15,204). But that
ignores losses totalling £29,402 recorded
by the two subsidiaries in the coal trade.
The parent’s principal shareholdings are:
" Subscribed H.S.’s
Capital. Holding.
Australian Steamships £1,850,002 £1,849,997
Australian Sugar .. 207,912 _
Caledonian Collieries..
f 464,295 pref. 325,034 pref.
I 1,023,599 ord. 869,539 ord.
Invincible Colliery 104,000 67,821
B.H.P. .. 16,970,545 472,240
Southern Port. Cement
( 210,004 pret. 96,809 pref.
1 639,885 ord. 250,001 ord.
Southern Blue Metal.. 248,000 50,000
A, Goninan & Co. .. 199,180 39,510
First four on the list are subsidiaries,
whose figures are incorporated in the
consolidated accounts, summarised in the
introductory table. The improvement in
group profit actually earned during the
year came largely from the parent s own
merchandising activities, etc. the
sugar co. and A. Goninan are all regular
dividend-payers with good prospects.
During the year 118,060 new £1 shares
were taken in B.H.P. at 30s, each, and
paid 15s. at balancing date, and £2751 of
bonus scrip was received from Goninans.
The shipping co, doesn’t show a reason-
able return on capital invested, v coal
is a lame duck and the cement and metal
cos, are only moderate contributors to
the pool. _ . .
The shipping co.’s gain from a hit or
15s. a ton in officially-controlled freight
rates in June, 1949, has _ been since
largely gobbled by the continued rise in
operating costs. And the position is
aggravated by competition with Govern-
ment-owned vessels operated at a loss
and by the slow turn-round of ships m
port. The Government’s new legislation
to deal with the Communists and their
activities should help to improve the
position. Loss of one of the oldest units
of the fleet, the Time, which was wrecked
in Port Philip Bay, was fully covered by
insurance.
Caledonian Collieries, which had been
slowly working down arrears of pref.
divs., made a loss of £23,006 last term,
compared with a profit of £36,549 for
the previous year. Strikes, absenteeism
and floods reduced output by 24 p.c., and
shareholders (pref. and ord.) were passed
by. Pref. di vs - are still £325,000 m
arrears, so the outlook for the ords. is
bleak. Mechanisation of the Invincible
Colliery, which has paid divs. totalling
only 19 p.c. over the 19 years, is pro-
ceeding as fast as labor and materials
permit.
Finances are comfortable;
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid canital .. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord capital .. 2,000.000 8,000,000 2,000,000
Outside capital* .. 454,884 467,825 406,074
Deuosits .. .. 8,762 10,116 8,929
Sundry creditors .. 403,505 729,239 6 i2’os9
Workers'compensation 41,848 42,502 28,()
Tax provision .. 158,131 135,890 64,96
Freeholds, etc. .. 409,339 404,185 481,631
Steamers, collieries,
nlant etc . 1,546,569 2,048,637 2,041,914
*«:iS S&SS
Debtors . .. 457’.749 606,203 415,496
PU S 6^ itieSa . nd 1.473.783 1,200,446 1.014,719
’ * Including proportion of reserves.
To clip £118,591 off the amount coming
to sundry creditors, add £77,446 to free-
holds, etc. (due mainly to purchase of a
four-storeyed building in Brisbane) and
£107,144 to shareholdings (chiefly on
account of B.H.P. scrip already referred
to) the co. drew upon cash, etc., for
£185,727, reduced book debts by
£190,707 and stocks by £19,192. Loss of
the cargo vessel resulted in a drop of
only £6723 net in combined book-value
of steamers, collieries, plant, etc.
Subject to what happens on the coal-
fields and on the waterfront, prospects
of a better showing at next balance are
encouraging. The ords., which had
dropped to 20s. 4d. in the market m
1949, fetched 275. last week. The return
at the higher figure is 4.4 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div, basis. The prefs. at 295. 6d.
yield 4 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is £l6 12s. prefs. and 375. 9d.
ords.
Burns PKilp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re ~ Re_
Jan., Profit. Dividends, serve*, serves.
1941.. 38,971 5 p.c. = 37,500 1,471 142,927
1942.. 45,661 5 „ „ 37,500 8,!61 151,088
1943.. 58,243 6j „ ~ 46,875 11,368 162,456
Inner reserves disclosed, £172,217 .. '234,673
1944.. 112,589 8} p.c. = 65,625 1
To staff fund*. £lO,OOO ... )
36,964 871,637
Unexplained addition, £126,512 • • 498,149
1945.. 96,732 8J p.c. = 65,625 1
To staff fund, £5,000 .. j
26,107 524,256
Unexplained addition, £152,594 . •
1946.. 80,401 Bjp.c.= 65,625 14,776 691,626
Unexplained addition, £636 .. 692,262
1947.. 89,086 8J p.c. = 65,625 23,461 ? 15 >^3
Unexplained addition, £4109 .. 719,832
1948.. 97,079 BJp.c.= 65,625 81,454 751,286
Unexplained addition, £48,469 .. 799,755
1949.. 94,018 8j p.c. 65,625 28,898 828,148
Unexplained reduction, £953 .. .. 327,195
1950.. 96,702 10 p.c. = 75,000 21,702 848,897
Paid capital has stood at £750,000 for
the last 30 years —ever since the big
parent organisation (Bums Philp) passed
this South Pacific section of its island
business to the co. for £500,000 in scrip.
Meanwhile, shareholders have received
regular but moderate dividends averag-
ing 6.1 p.c. for the 20 years to close of
accounts in 1940 and 7.8 p.c, for the 10
years since. And at end January last
they could see £848,897 of reserves, of
which £504,537 came from undisclosed
sources over the last seven years, to sup-
port and assist the share capital.
Since the war world-wide inflation has
given an extraordinary boost to island
trading, and the co. has strengthened its
inter-island fleet and handed its assets in
the New Hebrides to a new subsidiary,
which appears to be stepping along in
fine style.
Last term there was a “steady
and remunerative” market for island pro-
ducts, merchandise sales were satisfactory,
though profit margins were reduced and
destruction by fire of the main store at
Ba (Fiji) caused disloca-
tion. Earnings from shipping also de-
clined on account of higher operating and
overhead costs.
There was a slip of £13,160 in gross
earnings from all sources;
1947. 1949. 1950.
Gross profit •• .. £257,930 £344,825 £831,665
Working exes. .. . 150,315 ’ 206,033 205,442
Depreciation .. .. 18,020 40,172 36,146
Bad debts, etc. .. 510 4,602 3,3/o
Net profit .. .. 89,086 94,018 96,702
The improvement of £2522 in ,the net
result was due mainly to a lower, but still
generous, allowance for depreciation
(down £14,026). The £96,702 of profit
claimed was 12.9 p.c. on capital as against
12.5, 12.9, 11.8, 10.9, 12.8 and 15 p.c.
back to 1944. The div. was lifted from
8f p.c. to 10 p.c., which can be taken as
a hint that the board is satisfied with
the outlook.
The 1949 output of copra in Fiji was
approximately 33,417 tons (down 1220
tons), but the in-store price was steady
at £49 10s. 6d. per ton (plantation) as
against an average of £44 12s. 2d. for
1948. At the beginning of 1949 the
British Government entered into a nine-
year contract with the Fiji authorities to
buy the colony’s copra at a price to be
fixed annually by negotiation. The U.K
has also guaranteed a “reasonably re-
numerative” price for all sugar exported
from Fiji for the three years to end 1952,
and for up to 120,000 tons p.a. for the
five years after that. The price for 1950
is £3O 10s. (stg.) a ton, or £3 ss. (stg.)
above the 1949 figure, Trochus-shell and
cocoa, coffee and vanilla beans are fetch-
ing high figures, too.
Financially the co, continues to put on
weight:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Capital .. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 333,182 210,032 182,744 170,001
Pr pS ie ete hiP ' 117,374 174,709 196,167 182,882
Investments .. 1,108,760 11,500, 15>016 *97,084
Shares subsids. 130,500 180,500 994,500
Stocks, etc... 394,133 794,908 1,046.346 975,140
Book debts .. 113,190 99,270 112,992 100,232
Owing by subsid’y *— 617,114 179,849 11,344
Uwing oy sum BQ|Bl7 118>52 2 125,214
During the year most of the new sub-
sidiary’s debt to the parent (down
£168,505) was capitalised, with a conse-
quent increase of £174,000 in the share-
holding. At the same time £92,068 was
added to a mixed bag of investments,
chiefly shares in other cos, and Govern-
ment securities. Stocks were reduced by
£70,206 and book debts by £12,760, while
£12,743. was snipped off the moderate
butside debt. After allowing for the final
div., the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,416,013) was £34,028 stronger.
After fluctuating between 535. and 455.
in the Sydney market during 1949, the
pound shares, visibly covered by 425. 7d.
in net tangibles, recently fetched 555.
Allowing for exchange at the current rate,
the return at 555. is 4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis.
Caldwell's Wines, Ltd. (Sydney)
t> „ „, < Dividends s To r 0 t.
Dec.. Profit. Pref. Ord. se^tfStt
1942.. 13.751 12.4 p.c. 2} p.e. 8,662 6 099 ~ L
To tax reserve, £7500 °> ua » 11,420
1943. . ' 18,514 6.2 p.c. 5 p.c' 8 203 ’ in si, - 18 ’ 920
“■*» «•> - » ’. a “s a
1945.. 13,086 6.2 „ 5 „ 8 203
From staff reserve, £lO,OOO ’
1946.. 16,702 6.2 p.c, 6 p.c 9 233 v .ini
1947.. 27,587 7.6 „ 7* .11 424 44
1948.. 36,190 8 „ 8 „ 12,186 24,004 59 oi.
Share premiums, £lO,OOO
1949.. 29,967 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 18,254 * 11,7 is 81,Si
t After deducting goodwill (now £25,000)
Like many other sectors of the economy
the wine industry is enjoying a run of
prosperity unequalled in the last 30 years
Production of wine in N. S. Wales rose
from 2.5 million gallons, of which over
65 p.c. was consumed locally, in 1939 to
4.5 million gallons in 1948, when local
consumption amounted to 97 p.c. So the
heavy shrinkage in the post-war export
trade, due to the steep rise in British
excise, hasn’t affected the earnings of
local vignerons.
At the production end good seasons
have pushed up output over the last four
years, while consumption has been stimu-
lated partly by growth of population, but
mostly by free spending engendered by
inflated incomes and a seller’s market,for
labor. And the economic barometer
might rise further yet before it begins
to fall.
Financially and otherwise Caldwell’s
is stronger than it has ever been. Last
year shareholders put up £40,000 of fresh
capital, which brought with it £lO,OOO of
share premiums, which were added to
reserves. The money went mainly into
stocks (up £33,410) and leaseholds (up
£14,054), thus expanding and anchoring
the co.’s large controlled trade. A heavier
crop from the Corowa, Mandalsea and
Yenda vineyards and bigger output from
the winery and distillery filled the
Camperdown cellars (now being extended)
to capacity.
Sales increased, but not fast enough to
offset the effects of rising costs. So, after
allowing an extra £2237 for depreciation
(£6940) and an additional £4355 for taxa-
tion (£18,725), there was a drop of £6223
in declared net earnings. The £29,967 of
profit was enough to pay the pref. div.
(£3914) and show 18.1 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 31.2, 23.7, 13.2,
9.7 and 11.3 p.c. back to 1944. .With
another good year in prospect, the board
decided to add a couple of points to the
div., lifting it to 10 p.c., and making
the average distribution over the last
eight years 6.1 p.c.
The financial position improved:—
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £152,826 £152,326 £152,328 £192,826
Creditors .. 85,4 1 3 29,14 4 48,848 42,479
Tax provision 47,822 51,731 81.680 17,275
Staff funds .. 5,88 5 9.64 7 8,690 7 797
Freeholds .. 88,379 106,963 110,985 125,042
Sr 1 * ;; S.6M fb« S:ia S
Stocks .. 70,40 2 81,279 109,120 142,580
Sst r etc. :: 32,763 S*
Allowing for final divs., the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£104,998) was £44 267
stronger, thanks to introduction o
° a What the less immediate futureJjjj*
for the trade is guesswork at the momen ■
Much depends upon whether loc
sumption holds around its P res ,
During the slump of the early 1930 tfte
worst of the trouble occurred i
port market, which then accoun
a much bigger slice of sales tha
today. The emphaas m pubhc g 1 J ha ,
now upon employment, but e _
that will amount to in the tutur
to be seen. . j market)
The lift in the the
which lengthened its bid f le
from 255. fid. to 30s. over; last® P.
of months. The return at 3 • shoU id
on alO p.c. div. basis, ° r ■> P- the
the rate drop to P- c - c Wales
prefs., which are subject to' ■ at
Interest Reduction Act, y in n et
their full contract rate. . 31s. sd-
tangibles is £5 11s. lid. prefs. and i
ords.


IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—~
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED -
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt,
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
LAKE VIEW AND STAR,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
INTERIM DIVIDEND No. 66
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a
' First INTERIM DIVIDEND of SIX-
PENCE per share sterling in respect of
the year ending 80th JUNE, 1950, less
United Kingdom Income Tax at NINE
SHILLINGS in the £., (Two decimal
point seven pence per share sterling)
has been declared and will be payable
on 19th MAY, 1950, to all persons
registered as holders of shares on the
Australian Register at the close of business
on 27th APRIL, 1950.
The Net Dividend is equal to Three
decimal point three pence per share
sterling.
The Transfer Books will be closed
from 28th APRIL to Ist MAY, 1950,
both days inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of Dividend
will be calculated at the rate of Ex-
change ruling bn 28th APRIL, 1950.
For LAKE VIEW AND STAR, LIMITED,
R. D. Morrison, *
Local Secretary.
KALGOORLIE, W.A.
21st APRIL, 1950.
ẃ
KHAKIS
Circular Chart* for all typ4t
of Recording Instruments
•or a*r class of HacJtioorf
or Eqwipmont
METER CHARTS a iaoeUkf
JACtiWsromUVAN^ia:
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
- The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £65,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£10,500,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
ẅ
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
SSa'
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manutacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
BABCOCK-DETROIT
SPREADER STOKER
w
ŵ
V"
%
■
ToP—Side view of Babcock-Detrolt
KotoStoker with power dumping
crate.
BOTTOM—Sectional view of Bab-
cock-Detroit BotoStoker.
For Medium and
Moderate Sized
Industrial Installations
The Babcock-Detroit Roto-
Stoker is supplied with
either hand or mechanically
operated dumping grate,
and is employed mainly for
medium and moderate
sized industrial installations.
This stoker has been
demonstrated as capable of
handling a very wide range
of fuels, including bitum-
inous, sub-bituminous coals
and lignites, brown coal
and mixtures of coke and
coal.
One of its main advantages is its suitability in plants
where the type or quality of coal delivered varies from
time to time.
As suppliers of all types of firing equipment, whether
for pulverised fuel, oil fuel, other mechanical types of
itokers, or any other known firing method, Babcocks
lave the experience necessary to advise on the right
quipment most suitable and economical to your needs.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
READ OFFICE & WORKS - - REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Office* and Agencies In all State*
McDonnell and East, Ltd. (Brls.)
r —Dividends ,
Pref. ® e "
P»«tS|.c. Ord.- T
11 275 720 sip.c. ~ 10,232 23,986
l7 056 720 5* „ ~10,231 30,091
914 720 6 U Ifll 44,124
720 6 „ ~11,161 58,991
W"’ 720 7 „,, 13,021 76,582
043 720 7 „ ~13,022 99,883
l9 pmm Policies a/c, £3200.. 103,083
iofc! 46 817 720 8 p.c. = 14,882 134,298
disappear, £7379.. 126,919
io?q 720 8 p.c. = 14,882 144,013
ai-ww }»"•«{
1950 34,099 720 8 p.c. - 14,882 148,91-
♦ Includes special payments to directors.
Whether the net trading profit
of this Brisbane draper—the
store is in George-street, just off
the main shopping centre—was
actually any better last term than
for the preceding one depends
upon the purpose for which the
unexplained reductions in the re-
serve for contingencies (inter-
lined in the table) were used.
Taking these reductions into ac-
count, the 1950 profit was
£20,501 (down £4816), which
covered the small pref. div. and
11.4 p.c. on the £172,207 of ord.
capital as against 14.3 p.c. for
1949.
The official cut in gross mar-
gins occurred just before the
close of accounts in 1949, and
the nation-wide coal strike gave
turnover a jolt in June and July
last. Still, last term’s turnover
bettered its immediate predeces-
sor, though the rate of increase
slackened. Gross earnings
(£•191,615) increased by £16,214.
Including £3345 (down £1565)
for depreciation and £21,000
(same as previous year) for taxa-
tion, exes. (£157,516) made off
with £14,811 of the gain. The
declared net result was thus
£1403 stronger at £3*4,099, which
was enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 19.4 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal as against 18.6, 26.8, 21.1,
17.8 and 15.1 p.c. back to 1945.
The 8 p.c. div. was a com-
fortable matter. Average distri-
bution over the last 11 years
was 6.5 p.c,, compared with an
average of 4.3 p.c. for the half-
dozen preceding terms. The en-
couraging feature is that nearly
as much has been ploughed back
into the business as has been dis-
tributed. Since 1939 £141,675
has been paid in divs. and
£132,673 net has been added to
reserves, raising them to
£148,912 at end January last
To carry a further £38,721 of
stocks and £6279 of book debts
the co. went to its bankers for
an extra £43,308 last term:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital £181,027 £181,027 £181,027
Mortgages .. 3,153 2,403 1,653
Overdraft .. 60,000 74,282 117,590
Sundry
creditors .. 14,676 27,878 33,501
Freehold, ;
plant, etc. 100,480 102,572 103,229
Stocks . . 259,996 321,561 360,282
Book debts 46,661 -50,607 56,887
Cash, etc. .. 46,588 33,342 33,018
Stocks, which appear at the
lower of cost or market value,
are reported sound and in good
condition. There was a slip of
£3504 in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£289,282).
After fluctuating between 275.
and 335. during 1949, the ords.
are now priced at 305., giving a
return of 5.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 375, 4d.
in net tangibles.
The Shell Oil Co. is due to
make a start any day now with
its deep test-well near Rolleston
(Q.). Everything was in readi-
ness in Feb., but the plant has
been immobilised by the extra-
ordinarily wet season (a further
lOin. fell this month) and the
spewy nature of the country. The
big plant now erected is capable
of drilling to 10,000 ft. at least. It
is situated in Rewan homestead
country, some miles south of
Rolleston. To the south of it at
a distance of some miles lies
Arcadia, where a bore was put
down following the Roma oil
boom. This bore reported show-
ings of gas and oil, but was of
no commercial consequence.
Years of scout-drilling about
Rewan and Warrinilla have pre-
cisely determined a dome struc-
ture far out on the flank of the
structurally important Spring-
sure anticline. However, one
bore can never be a complete
test for a possible oil-bearing
dome. The bore will traverse
the lacustrine beds of the Upper
Bowen formation before passing
through the marine series, where
hopes are highest. At a guess
probably 6000 ft. may be close to
its ultimate depth.
♦ * ♦ ♦
Copper production at Mt.
Lyell (Tas.) is still being cur-
tailed by lack of coke. For the
first quarter of 1950 only 1158
tons blister were produced as
against 2737 tons for the previ-
ous three months. There was
3935 tons of recoverable copper
in unsmelted concentrates at end
March. Co. recently raised a
loan of £750,000 from National
Mutual Life on terms not broad-
cast. At end September,. 1949,
bank overdraft stood at
£1,364,533, and excavators and
trucks on order were expected
to cost £200,000. The coke
trouble reduced output of blister
for the year to September 30
last (3840 tons) to less than one-
half plant capacity, which is to
be stepped up to 10,000 p.a. over
the next few years. Given
enough coke and freedom from
industrial hold-ups, the board is
•confident of turning the big low-
grade mine into a satisfactory
profit-earner. The 5 p.c. div., a
regular event for the last four
years, has come from returns
from investments. There is
£1,550,000 of share capital to
feed. The market prices the
scrip, f.p. to £l, at 245. 7d.
* * * *
Lake View and Star (W.A.)
will pay an interim of 6d. (stg.)
per 4s. share on May 19, same
as for the previous term, when a
final of Is. 6d. (stg.) per share
made total payments for the year
2s, per share. Apparently the
board decided to wait until it
can see more clearly the effects
of rising costs upon the benefits
from the September, 1949, lift in
the price of gold, as well as what
might yet happen in connection
with Australian - sterling ex-
change, before it increases the
dividend rate. After allowing for
English income tax of 9s. in the
£ and exchange at the current
rate, the interim 12} p.c. is worth
8.6 p.c.. in Australian currency.
The price of the scrip, which ad-
vanced in the market from 31s.
to 335. during the first couple of
months of 1950, stood at
325. lOd. last week. The co.,
which is Australia’s premier
has an efficient
plant and management, and de-
velopment is well ahead of the
mill.
* * * *
Despite the rise in the paper
'price of gold in September last,
Perth (W.A.) mint receipts of the
yellow metal for the first quarter
of 1950 were only 138,8790 z., or
about 10,000 oz. less than for the
corresponding period of 1949,
when rich crushing from
Mountain View helped the
figures along. Among the
obstacles in the way of in-
creased production are shortage
of equipment, and scarcity of
skilled labor and rising costs.
Some producers have also taken
advantage of the higher price to
prolong the life of their mines
by including ore of a grade un-
profitable with gold at the old
price. But until the thorny ques-
tion of exchange rate, and there-
fore the Australian price of gold,
is finally determined, and pro-
ducers can see more clearly
where they stand, little in the
way of bigger output need be
looked for.


See this Engineering
Victory!
HHs
The “trim size" JAVELIN
WITH THE LARGE-CAR FEATURES
Acceleration 0.60 in
22.2 *ecs.
Horizontally opposed
Flat-four 50 b.h.p.
Engine.
Torsion Bar Suspen*
(ion.
Steel Body.
A streamlined beauty with room
for up to 6 passengers and
luggage. A car that will give
you a smoother road-hugging
ride, 35 m.p.g. economy, and
amazing acceleration. You have
to drive the Javelin over the
worst roads you know to feel
the “miracle of its torsion bar
suspension and to enjoy real
shockless steering. Once tried
you’ll say “I’d rather go by
Javelin I ”
* Made in Bradford. England, by JOWETT CARS LIMITED
, COMMONWEALTH DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. and A.0.T.; Bradford Cars Pty. Ltd., 218 New South Head Rd., Edgecliff.
Phone: FB 3100.
Vxctona: Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty, Ltd., 149-155 Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
Queensland: Redman Motors, 46-54 Edward St., Brisbane,
South Aust.: British Engineering Appliances Ltd., 430 King William St., Adelaide.
Western Aust.; Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., 722 Wellington St., Perth.
lasmama: Donald Qorringe Pty. Ltd., 72 Argyle Street, Hobart.
THE l\ LITRE
JOWETT
JAVELIN
£*4e a gotuj £oo£ tube* Jt/pados* you
k
'M
4^
ft*
w
«*jj
V.-v,,^
jayT&f&ieq/ue..
Men and women everywhere are realising 0
much this safe, convenient method is stream ming
the payment of their accounts.
Just a few strokes of the pen make ° ut * e
cheque. A few more strokes address the enve °P *
The postman does the rest. In modern business
in the home, a cheque account in the
Bank is a necessity. An account is easy to open
simple to operate.
The manager or other experienced officer *} J* c( j
Branch of the Commonwealth Bank will be p
to open one for you.
Other services include :— etters
INTEREST BEARING DEPOSITS: OVERDRAFTS: L J US |NG
OF CREDIT AND TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES; " iM aRV.
LOANS; SAFE CUSTODY: LOANS FOR
PRODUCTION, ETC.
®ommoiwallbSiaiiti
ofßustralia.
C.G.8.1
THE BANK
ŵ
Business Rollery Etc.
To Revalue or Not?
Many people have been writ-
ing to The Bulletin asking for
a ruling on the question of
whether the exchange rate should
be altered or not. This paper
has had a good deal to say about
the exchange rate over the past
‘ two years, and since the devalua-
tion of sterling by Britain in
September last jt has favored re-
valuation of the Australian
pound in relation to sterling.
Not necessarily to par ; perhaps
half-way. It feels that the
present exchange rate is a stimu-
lation to inflation, and that an
up-valuation would give us a
reserve in regard to costs in the
case of a depression.
The Bulletin has always pre-
ferred stability in the exchanges,
if possible. Before the revalua-
tion of sterling it was not thought
advisable to alter the exchange
rate, as Australia was still sub-
ject to price-control and our
costs level had obviously not
reached its post-war peak. It
was thought that we needed the
advantage in costs that the 25
p.c. “exchange premium” gave
us at that period, especially in
view of the still-rising tendency
in costs and prices.
Stability, however, was taken
out of our hands, so far as cur-
rency is concerned, when the
Attlee Government devalued
sterling against the dollar. Al-
though the Australian £ retained
its old relationship with the
sterling £ in the ratio of 125 to
100, our £ depreciated in terms
of dollars at the same rate as
sterling, falling from $3.20 to
$2.24.
This sterling devaluation has
had the effect of raising the cost
of goods imported from dollar
countries and of goods froip
sterling countries where the
goods have some dollar-
influenced content; it has also
had an influence on the sterling
price of all raw materials, rais-
ing the sterling price, and thus
bringing to Australia a bigger
price for wool, wheat and
metals, Australia similarly has
had to pay more for most raw
materials, such as cotton,
petroleum, tea, coffee, wood-
pulp, etc., regardless of source.
Though the return to the Aus-
tralian exporter generally has
been increased as a result of
Britain’s devaluation against the
dollar, it is unlikely that devalua-
tion has of itself earned for
Australia many extra dollars.
However, the cheaper £ may
have made it easier for Britain
to maintain its exports of
whisky, textiles and cars to the
United States at a critical junc-
ture —a period when carefree
buying in the United States was
coming to an end and unem-
ployment was rising.
But in Australia the effect of
Britain’s devaluation has been
to stimulate our.inflation further.
Inflation has been a danger to
this country ever since war be-
gan ; coupled with underproduc-
tion, it has had the effect of rais-
ing production costs and the cost
of living, and, generally, reduc-
ing the value of the £. The
stimulation to inflation in Aus-
tralia that has followed Britain’s
cut in its £ has been given by
the increased cost of our im-
ports and the increased price of
our exports. Both tend to raise
costs and take value out of the £.
Many exporters in Australia
are not so happily placed as the
wool and wheat industry. And
some of our manufacturers who
are not exporters are already
feeling the pinch of overseas
competition, more particularly
from the sterling. area, in spite
of the present 25 p.c. exchange
premium. This is so in spite of
the rise in United Kingdom
wage-rates that has occurred
since the war.
At the present time some U.K.
knitted goods are selling on the
Australian market at or under
the price of local products. This
is partly because the imported
“Well, no, it isn't exactly an ENGAGEMENT ring —
is it, Wilfred?”
article was made from wool
bought at the prices ruling two
or three years ago, whereas
Australian mills operate more
on a hand-to-mouth basis.
From whatever cause, there is
evidence of increasing competi-
tion in the textile trade.
There is no doubt that an
alteration in the exchange rate
would give concern to many
Australian manufacturers. Com-
petition from British goods
would become keener. But that
is something that must be
reckoned with eventually in any
case. If inflation, stimulated by
sterling devaluation, keeps pro-
gressing at its present rate in
Australia our secondary indus-
tries (and land industries, too)
will become just as vulnerable as
they may consider they will be
after revaluation. And in the
meantime greater injustice will
have been done to all those hold-
ing money savings and money
investments.
Too little heed has been paid
in recent years to the rights and
virtues of those people with
money savings and investments
in Commonwealth loans and
mortgages. Pensioners and the
like have been given a poor
deal. The Menzies Government’s
aim to put value back into the
pound envisages the halting of
inflation to protect these people
as well as wage-earners. An up-
valuation of our currency would
tend to check inflation.
But no one should entertain
the ide'a that currency manipula-
tion, either up or down, by itself
achieves any permanent benefit.
Unless revaluation of our cur-
rency is accompanied by a higher
per - capita production, with
lower man-hour costs, then its
beneficial effects will be reduced
to a minimum and its reactions
upon the export industries will be
heavier in the event of a down-
turn in world prices.
Sharemarket Quiet
With the U.S. stock-market
slightly weaker, Australian
’Changes carried on business on
a slightly subdued note last
week. B.H.P. sold at 545. 6d. on
Friday after a fairly steady week.
The shares touched 575., cum
div., a fortnight ago. Most
leading stocks were similarly less
buoyant than they had been a
week or so before, when a
record price-level for industrials
was established. But by any
standard support for Australian
investment shares is still strong.
Industry is now depending a
great deal upon the Menzies
Government’s efforts to deal
with Communism, The Com-
munists for years have been the
chief architects of inflation and
reduced productivity in this
country. It is upon productivity
at a level where price-control
will be unnecessary and costs
will be much lower that pros-
pects of real industrial pros-
perity in Australia depend.
Coles and Woolworths
When the G. J. Coles combine
got its foot in the doorway of
New Zealand’s retail-store trade
through the merger with Self-
ridges (Australasia), Ltd., the
Woolworths group lost no time
in arranging a deal with Mac-
duffs, Ltd., which a few months
earlier had hopes of becoming
Coles’s happy bride. Back at
the end of last year, while Coles’s
experts were in Maoriland put-
ting the measuring-rod over
Macduffs, an intriguing court-
ship brought a flutter in Mac-
duffs’ ss. shares and sent them
to a peak of 13s. on the market.
Macduffs’ directors were eager
to make a match of it with the
big Australian co., but the
would-be bride was jilted when
Coles’ affections, cooled bv tk.
market s increased valuation
Macduff s’ shares, were suddenly
transferred to Selfridges amf y
all-Australian match quicSv
suited, with a wedding
present for Selfridges™
holders. One result of the wed'
ding was that Coles became the
foster-parent of Selfridges (N 7 \
Ltd., in which it secured a
majority shareholding. Although
Selfridges two stores in Maori
land do not constitute a chain
they are enough to give Cote a
strong foothold. a
Macduffs, cold-shouldered
with a chain of 21 stores built
up in 12 years, had youthful
charm for Woolworths (N.Z.)
Ltd., when the new courtship
opened, and was ready enough
for a quick engagement. The
parent Woolworths co j n
Sydney, which had the final voice
m this match-making, saw the
chance to extend its chain to
137 stores, directly and through
subsidiaries, and geographically
the move had the advantage of
creating a powerful all-New
Zealand group, capable of domi-
nating the Maoriland field. On
the short view, Macduffs may
be more suitably matched than
if wedded to Coles, but it isn’t
so easy to form a judgment on
a long view.
Combined capital of Wool-
worths (N.Z.) and Macduffs is
£1,220,430, which leaves the only
other big M.L. chain-store group
owned by McKenzies, Ltd., with
half a million far behind. Latest
divs., 15 p.c. for Woolworths and
I2i p.c. (including bonus) for
McKenzies, show who has been
setting the pace. In the highly
competitive field the tension has
been too strained to be com-
fortable for smaller concerns like
Macduffs. On the strength
of the news, Macduffs’ shares,
which had sagged to Bs. 7d. be-
fore Easter, when the suit with
Coles was broken off, rebounded
to 12s. 6d. and then settled a
shade under that figure.


ẁ
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee,
’-Cr\
4
m
l:
. iCURE YOUR
mily’s FUTURE
imhl family's security is an
important matter which should
tln' Ye £°. ur immediate atten-
'h'f family responsi-
out ° on f 3 * fulfilled by taking
bn i:° suitable life assurance
ST Wlt h the Equitable Probate
wh „ era l Insurance Co. Ltd.,
.t. ore faHy experienced in
y ou e matters to expertly advise
R. V. PERKINS,
General Manager,
ẃ
m
Si
ẅ
I
*24i
m
j
Ancestors
of an
Industry
Joseph. Black published only three papers on chemical
subjects in the course of over fifty years of scientific research,
but his work is of such importance that he is regarded’as one
of the founders of modern chemistry. The most important of
his papers, published in 1756 and entitled “Experiments upon
Magnesia Alba, Quicklime and some other Alcaline Sub-
stances," deals with the chemical changes which occur when
quicklime is added to the “mild alkalis" to render them caustic.
He, showed that when a solution of mild alkali is treated with
quicklime, limestone and caustic alkali are produced. Black's
explanation of this reaction is still accepted, and so well
reasoned is his paper on the subject that it is regarded as one
of the classics of chemical literature.
Born in 1728 in Bordeaux of Scottish parents temporarily
resident in France, Joseph Black went to Glasgow University
at the age of 18, becoming Professor of Anatomy arid
Chemistry in 1756, a post he retained for ten years until he
took up an appointment at the University of Edinburgh. But
it is for his work on the alkalis that this Scottish chemist is
remembered. These chemicals which include
such everyday substances as washing soda
and bicarbonate of soda, are as essential for
industry as for the. home. Their manu-
facture is one of the most important
branches of the British chemical industry.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
■ILSI-14.
SPRAY SECTIONS NOW IN
NOW! IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
ON ALL ALUMINIUM ORDERS
s
1
■"■ = i i
- E
veto
iEft
M\oh
\BB'&
OHt
C\H
BV
SpRM
VWBOVI
a t\on
&BB
\RR' g
RA
Good irrigation MAKES money
for you . . . and Rainbow Spray Irrigation SAVES
money and work. The 48 feet coverage of each
spray-head means a third less sections to buy and
to move aroundl Rainbow Spray Irrigation gives you
better irrigation at far less cost.
ALUMINIUM MAINS AND SECTIONS
Lightweight, durable spray sections and 24 ft. mains, approxi-
mately HALF the weight and TWICE the life of ordinary
mains >and sections.
SPRAY IRRIGATION IS BEST. AND "RAINBOW" MAKES
THE BEST SPRAY IRRIGATION!
RAINBOW
SPRAY
IRRIGATION
83 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. 'PHONE BU 3425
Queensland: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD., 102-124
Melbourne St., Sth. Brisbane. Victoria: C. BEAUMONT.
64 King St., Melbourne—MU 5271. South Australia: RALPH
CURRY, 24 Light Sq., Adelaide. 'Phone: C 1065.
60/83.8A
SPECIAL SPRAY HEAD
Scientifically designed to throw
a spray over an area of 48 ft.
square.
FLEXIBLE COUPLINGS
Worked on ball and sockit prin-
ciple, flexible in all directions up
to angles of better than 25%.
Easy adjustment, positive lock.
COMBINED OUTLET
AND HYDRANT
Vastly improved hydrant simpli-
fies operation, gives
minimum obstruction in
both outlet a’nd mai/i.
COMPACT
STURDY STANDS
Sturdy angle iron, with-
out cross-bars, to give
maximum support with
minimum interference
with vegetation.
w
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
While the food situation in
Great Britain still suffers from
overcomplexity and annoyances
rooted in bureaucracy, most
housewives will thankfully admit
that their daily lives are less
harassed. They will also add a
meaningful “About time, too!”
There are those, of course, who
like to queue and who are some-
times to be seen extending along
the pavement a good hour be-
fore the shops open ; but their
quest is nylons, not food. Only
at peak shopping hours are files
to be seen threading slowly into
the grocer’s, butcher’s or green-
grocer’s shops.
The main shortages, which re-
main distressingly unrelieved, are
meat, sugar and, to a lesser de-
gree, cooking-fats. Of these, lack
of sugar most taxes the patience
of the’housewife. Thanks to the
fairness and ingenuity of the
average butcher, she finds that
her meat-ration more often than
not exceeds her nominal allow-
ance. Although still inadequate
for the needs of her family, at
least it does amount to more
than the Whitehall allotment,
and betokens, perhaps, a state of
affairs —at present more desir-
able than attainable —when she
may again go into a shop and
buy what she wants. Moreover,
there are alternatives to meat in
rabbits, poultry and fish.
Saccharin is a poor substitute for
sugar, even in a state of mild
famine.
The aura of wizardry which
hung about the appointment of
Mr. Maurice Webb, the new
Minister of Food, has to some
extent been dispelled during
recent weeks. His job may be
a thankless one, and the work-
ing of miracles can hardly be ex-
pected of him. He has already
had to face a barrage of well-
informed criticism from house-
wives in his own West Riding
constituency. The recent cut-
ting of the bacon ration seems
to be a typical example of estab-
lished Whitehall technique, and
has added nothing to his stature.
Circumstances cause a scar-
city of bacon. The ration must
suffer. That’s reasonable enough.
But people are asking whether
we must continue to be treated
like third-form schoolboys and
be fobbed off with'a compen-
satory increase in butter to keep
us quiet. If there is a surplus of
food, the argument goes, it
should be sent to the shops and
not withheld for political, or so-
called “psychological,” reasons.
Britons don’t need to be told
about the psychological value of
food. It’s not “scientific” or
monotonous or calorific food
that warms the heart, but
variety and something unusually
tasty now and then.
Wages and Workers
The innumerable Bank Holi-
day conferences held by associ-
ations, unions and other bodies
usually give rise to resolutions
which appear, in coldi print, un-
practical,, irresponsible and often
fantastic. This year is an excep-
tion. Delegates appear to have
been preoccupied almost entirely
with “the insufficiency of per-
sonal incomes in relation to the
alarming increase in the cost of
living.”
Trade-unions, bound by agree-
ment not to press wage-claims,
are individually breaking down
the alliance between the general
council' of the T.U.C. and the
Government. The teachers can’t
pay their way and suffer, per-
haps, the greatest handicaps of
any calling. Shop-assistants de-
mand a minimum wage, Miners
are asking for more, as are
journalists, railwaymen and
farm-workers. Quite simply, the
truth is that almost all people
with fixed incomes are having
a tough struggle to make ends
meet.
That means, surely, that the in-
sidious contagion of inflation has
not been arrested. The Govern-
ment knows what must be done,
yet seems unready to do more
than state what should be done.
The T.U.C., with no “coercive”
power, can only advise, and
what counsel it can give hardly
appears to be effectual. The solu-
tion may well be a difficult and
unpopular one. It will not be
reached by a rise of a few shil-
lings a week here and there.
Industrial storm-clouds are
gathering. The 37 unions affil-
iated to the Confederation of
Shipbuilding and Engineering
Union have sent out 1,250,000
ballot-papers asking, in effect,
“Will you strike for a £1 a week
extra, or are you prepared to
submit to arbitration?” The
unions refuse to accept the
opinion that their action is illegal
and threaten to strike if a two-
thirds majority is declared in
July, when the result of the
ballot is known. As there was
considerable opposition to the
ballot, a strike is by no means
certain. The ballot was carried
on a card vote by 624,000 to
519,000, and 27 unions voted
against it; but, significantly, the
Amalgamated Engineer i n g
Union, with 490,000 votes and
some Communist officials, did
not.
Vicarage Hometruths
The world of the cottage
theatre and amateur dramatics
will be the poorer if nothing
more is heard of Wynyard
Browne’s “The Holly and the
Ivy,” which the Company of
Four tried out at the Lyric,
Hammersmith, before transfer-
ring to the West End,
This play—-a simple, homely,
sentimental, unaffected, ‘ warm.
sincere, imperfect and disarming
comedy with a happy ending—
is hardly “West End.” That is
to say, it bears the same sort
of relationship to sophisticated
comedy as farmhouse cooking
does to cuisine soignee. The in-
gredients are substantial but
everyday, and there aren’t too
many of them. An ageing vicar
has his family round him for
Christmas, and is presented with
a series of circumstances that all
but floors him. His elder
daughter wants to marry and go
to South America but daren’t
leave him; his younger daughter,
a fashion journalist with a war-
time past and a reluctant taste
for liquor, can’t face living at
homeland his son is'a feckless
conscript who is led mildly astray
by the errant daughter.
The unfolding of events forces
him to realise that he has failed
his family, if not the wider world,
and that, of* all people, a good
parent should be capable of
hearing the truth from his off-
spring.
Such concealed deftness goes
to the telling of the story that
the audience is held between
spontaneous laughter and sympa-
thetic tears, forgets that the char-
acters are actors and not real
people, and imagines that this
is • the author’s twentieth play
and not his second.'
Herbert Lomas * and Jane
Baxter are very much them-
selves as the lovable cleric and
the unselfish daughter respec-
tively. Margaret Halstan and
Maureen Delany provide most
©f the fun as the stereotyped
comic aunts. But the youngsters
win the day: Bryan Forbes is
never out of tune, despite some
tricky modulations, as the old-
soldierly conscript; and' Daphne
Forbes, if somewhat libellous to
present-day Fleet-street, is so
commandful of expression that
she could, if need be, convey her
sad history and ultimate happi-
ness without opening her mouth.


Women's Letters
The 1950 Anzac Day is but a memory,
a memory of autumn leaves falling on
the green lawns about the base of the
Edith Cavell monument at St. Kilda, of
the sun shining on the grey-uniformed
sisters, former members of the Australian
Army Nursing Service, on the silver-blue
uniforms of women who served with the
Queen Alexandra Imperial Nursing Service,
on the R.A.A.F. Nursing Sisters and on
the khaki of those who served with the
A.A.M.W.S. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
J. S. Disney, was at the service at the
Edith Cavell Memorial. So was Miss
P. Wilson, representing the trustees.
P.-0.-w, nurses were represented by Sisters
V. Builwinkel, Betty Jeffrey and Beryl
Woodbridge. Mrs. R. G. Casey was at
the short service, and former members
of a group who worked hard during the
war with the Victorian War Nurses’ Com-
forts Fund, Mesdames C. Allum, W,
Parker and Roger Fairbairn, were there
to greet the women they had served so
well.
St. George’s Church, East St. Kilda,
was the setting for the wedding of
Marjory Joyce, third daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. R. O. Shankland, of Greenvale,
and Ronald Henry, only son of Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Watts, of Ivanhoe. The
bride’s gown of heavy cream satin, lightly
embroidered with seed pearls, was cut
on classical lines with a heart-shaped
neckline. The full-length tulle veil was
caught with a coronet of orange-blossoms.
Gardenias formed her trailing bouquet.
The bride’s sister, Jessie, was the only
attendant. Her off-the-shoulder gown,
comprising a blue lace bodice and a full
tulle skirt, was mounted on matching pale-
blue satin. Bob Eggleston was best man.
A.s both bride and ’groom are members
af the Findon and Oaklands Hunt Clubs,
it was appropriate that the three-tiered
wedding cake had motifs of tiny white
Worses and horseshoes mingling with the
wedding bells. Reception was at the
New Alexandra.
Artist Phyl Waterhouse, who recently
ieft for England, has been notified that
ler work has been accepted for hanging
by the Royal Academy. Her mother dis-
posed this news to those who attended
the opening of her daughter’s exhibition
in George’s Gallery. Mrs. Waterhouse
wore a forest-green, feather-trimmed
Poche hat with her matching suit. Among
those at the exhibition were Mesdames
Daryl Lindsay, Len Annois and Fred
Ward, Lorna Stirling, Madge Freeman
and Margaret McLean.
Many members gathered for the dinner-
party at the Wentworth which preceded
the sixth session of the League of
Women Voters’ model Parliament, which
educates members in Parliamentary
routine. Mrs. Rapke was chairman. One
of the speakers was Mrs. G, A. Vasey,
who said that if women did not get out
of public life what they wanted it was
their own fault. Another was Mrs. R. G.
Casey, who was in her best form. The
“Governor-General designate” of this
year’s Women’s Model Parliament, Myra
Roper, who is principal of the University
Women’s College, poinfpd out that when
poets wanted to glorify women they didn’t
write about a chairman of committees or
any public-spirited woman, but about the
charms of a Juliet and of a Cleopatra,
not of their intellects.
When the Charles Nightingalls, of East
St. Kilda, went abroad last year they took
with them their daughter Gilda, who
persuaded her parents to come back to
Australia without her. Last Monday
in London Gilda celebrated her twenty-
first birthday, and her parents gave their
greetings by the telephone. Gilda, who
was presented at Buckingham Palace last
year and has since visited Ireland, Scot-
land and the Continent, has a job as
librarian with the B.M.A. and expects to
remain in England for at least another
year.
\r E iu Zabeth Cor . der ’ whose law studies at
Melbourne University were interrupted
wpi xr°e r years war service in the
w.k.a.N.S., has been practising with her
father, F. J. Corder, since she was
admitted to the Bar last year. Next
Friday she ventures abroad in the Ranchi
and may be away for a year or more,
the “more” depending on her success in
legal work abroad. Her parents, the F.
J. Corders, of Brighton, held a late-
afternoon party in Elizabeth’s honor dur-
ing last week, and many friends were on
hand to wish her “bon voyage.”
Those who gambled on warm autumn
sun for the Moonee Valley Club’s meet-
ing and preferred silks to tweed collected
dividends in comfort and glamor. Betty
and Meredith Dawson made a pretty
picture in their patterned silk frocks and
summery hats. Dorothy Appleyard’s silks
were patterned in green, red and blue;
her small sailor hat of gold-toned gros-
grain was finished at the side with one
large black silk rose. One of the smartest
outfits was that worn by Mrs. Neil Rogers.
Navy faille fashioned the slim frock, the
skirt having large buttons up one side
and with a large collar and lapels of
white grosgrain matching the cuffs which
finished the short sleeves; her wide,
shallow navy felt hat was finished with
veiling. Mrs. S. G. Garnsworthy’s suit
was of blue bird’s-eye tweed ; her white
grosgrain hat was trimmed with blue-and-
white-spotted taffeta. A black-and-white
check suit and a small cloche hat of black
felt with the underbrim in white was the
choice of Mrs. Frank Gillespie. Mrs.
Oswald Bowden’s forest-green suit was
topped with a deeper green felt hat
finished with a brown pheasant.
Under a navy faille coat Mrs. H. G.
Warner wore a white frock; her small
high-crowned sailor hat was of white
grosgrain. The beige hat Mrs. W. K.
Burnside wore with her pine-green suit
was trimmed with beige plumage spotted
with gold sequins. With her black
ensemble Mrs. C. H, Watson wore an
upswept black straw hat trimmed with
colored flowers, Mrs. W. Darton matched
the white lapels of her frock with taffeta
bows in her black hat. Mrs. S. Bain had
black aigrettes in her small black bowler
hat. A black satin peplum gave smart
effect to Mrs. Ivor Cardan’s black crepe
frock. A tall gold plume waved from
the black skull-cap Mrs, Bill\jluth wore
with her black suit. Wilma Heeney con-
trasted her old-rose gabardine suit with a
broken-egg-shell cap of white felt orna-
mented with gold beads and pearls. Paddy
Wilkinson’s checked suit was in gold and
brown.
There is a very good reason why Mrs.
Max Pemberton is wearing such a happy
smile: her publishers have just informed
her that the sales of the children’s books
she writes and illustrates under the naipe
of Connie Christie have reached 2,000,000.
She first started telling the stories to her
small son Barry, but friends persuaded
her to try her luck with a publisher. She
now writes four books and an annual
each year. Photography and cooking, as
well as making the clothes her small son
wears, are Mrs. Pemberton’s main
hobbies. Broothorn photo.
From Sydney
The sun shone and the wind stirred
briskly on Anzac Day. There were flags
and banners flying and 40,000 men
marching through Sydney streets. They
were men who, had soldiered from
Suvla Bay to Milne Bay, on the Coral
Sea and in the Mediterranean. A good
place to stand and see this gallant show
was in George-street just before the
ranks of first-war soldiers and second-
war sailors and airmen, men of the Boer
'War, men of the Sudan, turned into Park-
street rounding their way to the Domain
and the Service for their dead comrades.
Leading this march was the State Gov-
ernor, Lieut.-General Northcott. In it
were the marvellous-looking Papuans
(so brave and kindly). Here were Greeks
in their national costume, carrying high
their country’s flag. Here were our Dutch
allies.
Here were men of the Kokoda Trail
(and how would Hannibal have attacked
that one?) and men of Tobruk who re-
plied to Rommel “Come and get us,”
and went on playing their immortal
game of cricket. Here were the men of
Alamein, Here were the Old Contempt-
ibles. Here were small boys and girls
waving flags on the sidewalks. Here were
cheers and more cheers, and the clapping
of hands that roared down the street like
a great surf.
And in Martin-place the flowers were
a blaze of color on the Cenotaph.
Among the official and the splendid
wreaths and sheaves were such touching
symbols of remembrance as a small
cr6ss of poinsettia bright against a mass
of white chrysanthemums, a posy of
yellow flowers. About the green slopes
of the Domain the people in their
thousands gathered to take part in the
Commemoration Service, which was
simply and touchingly conducted by
General Orsbom of the Salvation Army,
Yesterday the 28th annual general
conference of the Country Women’s
Association was opened in the Assembly
Hall, Margaret-street, by the Governor,
Lieut-General Northcott. The guest
speaker was John Metcalfe, principal
librarian of the Public Library. His talk
was titled “Objects of Primary Importance
Down Mexico Way.” In the evening
there was a great rally of delegates on
the Show-boatf which cruised the Harbor
for their delight. Joan and Betty Rayner,
of the Australian Children’s Theatre,
flew to Sydney from Mildura for the
occasion. There are about 800 delegates
in town for the conference.
Sydney bade last farewell to Dame
Constance D’Arcy, brilliant surgeon
and gynaecologist, last week. St.
Mary’s Cathedral was crowded for
the Requiem Mass which preceded the
funeral at Waverley Cemetery. Until the
last two or three years, when illness
overtook her, Dame Constance was a
noted personality at public -and
social functions. Her popularity was
widespread, and so were her interests.
She was a member of the Senate of
Sydney University, and had the signal
honor of being appointed for a term as
Deputy-Chancellor. She had been on the
Council of Sancta Sophia College within
the University from its foundation, and
for many years had been Chairman of the
Council. She was a member of the
National Council of Women. She
was noted for her behutiful smile
and her love of hand-wrought set-
tings for her jewellery. She was
Honorary Consulting Gynaecologist of
St. Vincent’s, The Royal and Rachel
Forster Women’s Hospitals, and the
Children’s Hospital at Camperdown.
After the Easter rush the next rocket
in the social stratosphere will be the
Coral Sea Ball, This will be at Prince’s
on May 21, and will be a blaze of Aus-
tralian and American flags. Mrs. Maurice
Samuels and Miss N. G. Smith are on
the decorating committee. Mrs. G. E.
McCadden is busied with publicity. The
Governor-General and Mrs. McKell and
Betty have accepted invitations, and other
official guests will be Air-Vice-Marshal
McCauley and Mrs. McCauley and Lieut.-
General and Mrs. Berryman.
Abbey Clancy, well known as a
journalist and a member of United
Nations Organisation staff, was among
the passengers in the Orcades last
Saturday. She will first visit England,
tour Europe with her friend Madeleine
Page, already in London, and then slip
over to the United States. She is of
course very anxious to see U.N.O. in full
cry at Lake Success. Last Wednesday
afternoon journalists foregathered in the
Press Club for a tea-party at which Miss
Clancy was guest-of-honor. President
of the Institute of Journalists, Alec
Wilkie, made eulogistic speech ; so did
Jeff James, secretary of the AJ.A. There
were packets of nylons and powder and
books for the traveller.
University circles have been busy enter-
taining overseas visitors. Sir Ivor
Jennings, Vice-Chancellor of Ceylon
University, Lady Jennings and daughter
Shirley and Dr. O, T. Clargett and Mrs.
Clargett and Dr, Eaton and Mrs, Eaton,
from the U.S., where the two doctors are
surgeons on the staff of the great Mayo
Clinic at Rochester, were' given a lunch
by Sydney University’s Vice-Chancellor
Professor Roberts and Mrs. Roberts, in
the Holmes-Sutherland room at the Uni-
versity. Lady Jennings and Shirley were
ot W
All these travellers are visitb? ?• ?aU-
before their departure s?* ? nsb ane
family intend to see Armidab /T o ?®**
Ce d yl„„ Adelaide Wore tWr
m the Town Hall last nfght V £ ences
extremely good-looking young wo™'’ an
now Mrs. Weismann. She wal mf : IS
about two and a half years
mil be the guest-of-honor at a recent! 11 '
given on Sunday, May 7 bv th? ? tlon
d’affaires of Israel, U.
Levin, at their Point Piper home. Pnina
is touring Australia under the direction
of J. and N. Tait. The next of her four
Sydney concerts will take place on Satur-
day at eight o’clock.
Even prouder than when he was in-
vested with the great feathered head-
dress and other regalia of an Indian chief
(he is now Chief of the Southern Blue
Water) by Mayor of Vancouver Charles
Thompson, was our own Lord Mayor
O Dea when he stood beside the Canadian
visitor on the upper balcony of the Town
Hall and gazed on the city’s Anzac Day
march. Vancouver’s mayor, too, must
have felt pride as he saw the ex-service-
men flashing the maple leaf of Canada
stride past in the march. Mr, and Mrs.
Thompson have the knack of making
friends wherever they go, and parties and
entertainments in their honor commenced
on the day of their arrival (there was even
one on the day before owing to plane
delay). A cosy little tea-drinking in the
Pickwick Club, the tables wearing their
best lace cloths and blooming with
flowers, was given by Mrs. Croft, wife of
Canada’s senior Trade Commissioner.
Notable across the shoulders of Mrs.
Thompson’s smart beige suit was a three-
stranded fur necklet, glorious and glossy,
evidently grown by a’ very opulent furry
creature of that fur-famed country.
Soprano Erna Berger continues to pack
them in at Sydney Town Hall. Her pro-
grammes are chosen with a sense of true
artistry, and the clear limpid voice
is, if anything, more fluent and
pliant in Handel and Mozart than
in other music. Her frocks are
charmful, too. One of ice-blue moire
sweeping out to fullness at the back was
eyed with discernment by beginning
singers in the audience. But the blac
tulle-over-taffeta frock, the flounces o
tulle bright with a star design picked o
in diamente, has so far been vote
first place. Miss Berger’s recitals
under A.B.C. direction.
Mars may be the big gun at Victory
Barracks, but Cupid has made fl ul
dent up there with his little arrow. ’
only daughter of G.O.C. Eastern
mand, Lieut.-General Berryman, an ■
Berryman, is all set for njatnmuny- ,
June 9 she will wed in St. Mark S A , , - de ’
Darling Point, her Bill Wills, of A
This is a bit hot! Last week one o
the waitresses in a large city re
whispered to this Letter that a n
had gone out not to put P e . j n
the table. Since pepper went soai ng
price the pepper-pots had been
ing. At a lunch-party dur ? f hnr sa id
week a well-dressed woman neig
eagerly: “Oh, do pass PJ® h^, P never
Since it has become so dear
have it at home.” . t sor t
If you’re knowledgeable about . ndravvn
of thing you will stop J 1? ? inie st shop
breath of surprise before th ..{.hand
in Rowe-street. There m th l . g j iba tion
corner of the window is a G this
horn, probably the ? nly outside
country anyway, roaming a « on#
a museum. The shop, which str iped
a passage leading to a stairway, and
walls; the stripes on one If
down, on the other they g . effect
the shop dispensed W g^ gge ring. „
wouldn’t seem quite so stags
From Melbourne
Life will begin again,
We must take up the threads
That were let fall
When light departed from the lamp
Above the weaving loom.
A pattern we must form
More lovely than before.
Because of erstwhile loss, our sight,
Which for a time was dimmed
With grief, is keener far.
AGNES E. FAIRBAIRN.


BRANDTS famous TILLEY
STORM LANTERN
I
i
I
Candle
Power
Order Now —for Winter!
Here’s a safe, reliable lamp to
give you brilliant illumination
anywhere, under all conditions.
It has beat-resisting Glass, is
stormproof, and is solidly
made in Brass metal.
Economical and easy to ope-
rate, this famous British
KEROSENE Pressure - type
Lamp is moderately priced at
CAMPING APPLIANCES.
Brandts stock pressure-pattern
Stoves, Hurricane Lamps, Wick
Stoves, etc. All spare parts
supplied.
Mail orders by return mail.
BRANDTS PTY. LTD,
APPLIANCE
SPECIALISTS
SINCE 1878
371 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.'
'Phone
“THE GUARDSMAN”
TILLEY
STORM LANTERN
MODEL X 246
ŵ
High Polished Finish in the
Modern Speculum Plated Process
Heat Resisting Durosil Glass
TILLEIL. LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Lamps with
the Happy Mantle!
MANUFACTURED ONLY
AT HENDON, ENGLAND
BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Manufacturers * Representatives :— j. H. BENTLEY (PTY) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, Cl
Peter-Pannery.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Elaine Haxton’s illustrations
to a fairy-tale published a
couple of years ago were more
striking, more distinctive, more
successful as a whole than her
show of oils from abroad at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries.
In the illustrations Miss Hax-
ton could give full play to her
special qualities: a light fluency
in drawing, gaiety of color, a
feminine feeling for decoration
and a childlike imagination.
This was painting for children,
not an imitation of child-art, and
everything was appropriate and
harmonious.
But in the turnip-headed
children, drawn in a childish
style, and in the lumpy Picasso
ladies with jars on top of their
heads at the Macquarie Galleries
everything is inappropriate and,
intellectually, inharmonious. It
is an art for grown-up children ;
and, having left childhood some
years behind, really one wearies
having to pretend to be Peter
Pan to enjoy am art show.
A few paintings in the exhibi-
tion get beyond the limits of
child-art and are of more weighty
merit than the fairy illustra-
tions: especially “Loire Picnic”
and “Paris Summer.”
Phyl Waterhouse.
Phyl Waterhouse, the Mel-
bourne painter, combines in her
latest show at George’s, Mel-
bourne, Australian paintings and
sketches sent from England.
They are vigorous sketches, one
of the most vivid being “Hamp-
ton Court Avenue,” in which
the dark trees in the foreground
are relieved by the red building
behind them. “Country Hotel”
and “Gisborne” have atmos-
phere about them ; the portrait
of Jane Casey hasn’t. It may
or may not be a good likeness,
but the artist hasn’t given her
sitter any air to breathe with.
Erna Berger.
The wide repertoire upon
which the coloratura drew for
her further Sydney recitals in-
cluded the Brentano Song Cycle
by Richard Strauss. These songs,
written after the composer’s
genius had burnt itself out,
would constitute the perfect epi-
•ogue for a Cripps Budget; the
melodic austerity which invests
each of the six songs is empha-
sised most in the unconscionably
on g Lied Der Frauen which
completes the Cycle. The enor-
mous difficulties of each song
are made more exacting for the
singer by accompaniments which
cut across the grain of the vocal
line. Those accompaniments,
incidentally, represented a
triumph for Henri Penn, who
here and elsewhere brought to
his mastery of the technical parts
a lively appreciation of .the
mood of each song and of the
singer’s approach to it,
"The Sunken Bell."
Dr. Raoul Cardamatis went to
great trouble to show us Gerhart
Hauptmann’s “The Sunken Bell”
as a richly-colored fairytale at
Sydney Independent Theatre
last week ; the setting, dominated
by a huge spider-web and lit by
“special Surrealist light effects,”
was as queer and as colorful as
the clothing: one noticed
especially the Woodsprite (David
Cahill) in a frilly suit of what
grandmother used to call “un-
mentionables,” painted all over,
and most effectively, in muddy
grey; and Nickelmann (Peter
Sainthill), the water-spirit, in a
froglike suit of green.
Moreover, as the spirit and
princess of the forest, Rautende-
lein, Diana Davidson moved in
her few tatters like a dreamer.
She was not so much enchanting
as enchanted. She opened the
play and she closed it; most of
the time her presence on the
stage gave it its mysterious
atmosphere; and the highest
point in her performance, the
song by the well, when every
now and then a spoken word
falls from the unaccompanied
singing like a tear, was something
to remember for a long time.
Kenneth Fowles, as Heinrich
the bell-founder, had to bear
long passages of philosophical
disquisition in a translation
which, like most translations, was
like most translations: inver-
sions, archaisms, poeticisms—
the universal translation in which
Goethe, Schiller, Racine, Dante
and Homer are in one unread
burial blent, an Esperanto of the
spirit, a reduction of genius to
the lowest common denomi-
nator. Still, it is not hard to
believe that Hauptmann has
been tedious in telling that
part of the story in which the
bell-founder leaves his wife and
children and goes to live with a
forest nymph, in whose company
he gains a greater enthusiasm
for making perfect bells.
For it is the perfection of the
bell and not the words inscribed
upon it that rings out its mes-
sage, and we may suspect that
here is where Hauptmann, like
his bell-founder, fell short. But
in its miming, in its evocation
of atmosphere and in its effects
—from the simple shock of off-
stage thunder and lightning when
the townspeople approach an in-
visible magic circle, to the com-
plex and wonderful climax,
when the children’s voices off-
stage telling of their deserted
mother’s drowning are followed
by the tolling of the bell in ful-
filment of the prophecy that it
would be tolled from under the
sea —the play is a series of so
many and so varied enchant-
ments that it is hard to think
they all happened on the one
evening.
Old Contemporaries.
This year the N. S. Wales
Contemporary Art Society has
foregone its own exhibition to
hold a big show in the Educa-
tion Department Galleries of
paintings by European artists
lent by Australian collectors.
Necessarily the paintings are
rather a job-lot. Australian col-
lectors, even if they have re-
cently arrived from Europe, can-
not own the world’s master-
pieces which, when they come up
for sale, find their way to the
American millionaires or the gal-
leries endowed by them. Only
the Melbourne Gallery, magnifi-
cently endowed by Alfred Fel-
ton, can compete in this market.
The N. S, Wales National
Gallery may occasionally, as it
did recently, buy a fairly good
Monet; but round about £2000
is its limit, and one wonders if it
really was wise to spend the
money. For £2000 the Gallery
could buy four, perhaps six,
good Garners, which in the long
run will be quite as valuable as
the Monet.
But if there is no picture in
the Contemporaries’ show so
fine an example of the artist’s
work as is Melbourne’s Reynolds
or even Sydney’s Monet, there
are a few small paintings, chips
from the Old Blocks of art,
which glow with immortal life;
and these alone make the show
worth seeing: the head of a
child by Gainsborough, Con-
stable’s “Hampstead Heath,”
Turner’s “Italian Seascape” and
David Tenier’s “Monkeys Regal-
ing” from the collection of Mr.
R. Instone; Mr. Alexander
Philip’s tiny Raeburn; the group
of Boudin’s seascapes, with
something about them reminis-
cent of Julian Ashton, which
(along with some of the finest
Streetons this commentator has
been privileged to see ; and what
a sensation they would have
made in this exhibition!) live
with Mr. Norman Schureck at
Kings Cross.
In the same category —a minor
masterpiece, sound all the way
through and alive for all time —
may be placed Mr. Schureck’s
Augustus John. And, since John
is a contemporary painter, the
portrait of a native girl with
a flower in her hair may
illustrate one useful purpose
served by this exhibition: and
that is to demonstrate that there
is no such thing as “modern
art”—in the sense that there is
a whole, distinct category of
painting to be condemned or ap-
proved—any more than there is
such a thing as “modern
poetry.”
One did not, of course, come
down in the last shower. And
it may be that the Contempor-
aries are not so anxious to prove
that John and Raeburn swim
harmoniously in the great stream
of art as that there is a place
also for Picasso, Paul Klee,
Braque, Henry Moore’s drawings
and the squares and circles of
Ben Nicholson; and, conse-
quently, a place for the ex-
tremists among the Contempor-
aries.
Well, all things are possible;
and perhaps abstract art is not
essentially more tedious, nor
even essentially more abstract,
than the arid formula into which
the Italian religious painters
fell. But the trouble with the
Picassos, the Klees and the
Nicholsons is that time has not
yet got to work on them. What-
ever lasting quality may be found
in their more important work,
there is certainly none in the
scraps of rubbish hung on sack-
cloth in the Contemporaries’
centre panel.
But Augustus John isn’t the
only contemporary whose work,
to a greater or lesser degree, may
be fitted appropriately in an ex-
hibition which includes Con-
stable and Turner. There is one
of Vlaminck’s nightmare land-
scapes, for instance, as brilliant
as if it had been struck by
lightning; there is a charming
(early) Frances Hodgkins from
Mr. Walter Taylor’s collection,
as well as (from another collec-
tion) a meaningless sample of
this artist’s later work ; there are
three crude and powerful witches
by Ribera with a superbly
ferocious cat; some unusually
forceful German landscapes by
WUdhagen and others; a large
grey “Inundation of the River
Leye” by Albert Saverys; Chris-
topher Wood’s bold and
rhythmical “St. Ives”; and
many others.


moody, going off on long walks “for
exercise” ; Nixon, his own duties finished,
borrowing that evening a shotgun, had
walked up beside a grazing bullock with
such tact that even the white egret, hunt-
ing grasshoppers from its back, was un-
disturbed, and on the semi-liquid ooze of
a backwater, where there was not even
stubble for cover, by discharging both
barrels, had got over a dozen judcock;
very good eating.
At a table set under the stars a mun-
dane attention to these delicacies had dis-
couraged astronomy in favor of gas-
tronomy. And after dinner there had
been a sing-song. Beyond the white pre-
cision of the lines of tents, the dung-
fed spirals of the camp-followers’ cooking
fires, lit by hurricane-lamps to a lively
cerulean, had made the setting for the
concert. Almost unseen, the mango-trees,
still loaded with ripe but forbidden fruit,
the flowering neem-trees, the last flutters
of a group of gold-mohrs, had been dark
against an indigo sky.
“Less than the dust beneath thy chariot
whee-eels.
Less than the rust that never stained
thy swor-ord
—two hundred lusty male voices had
shouted with gusto to the hurried breath-
ing of scores of concertinas and mouth-
organs. Nixon, who had brought two of
those small drums that the villagers used
when hacking (or for scaring birds from
their fields), sitting cross-legged in the
front row of the orchestra, thumping in a
brisk rhythm, singing with all the strength
of a rich baritone, was happy.
Immediately the song started Bigge,
saying he “disliked music,” had taken
himself off. He was nowhere to be seen
when, having cried havoc to the night,
Nixon, tired out at last, moved across the
few intervening yards of tussocky-grass
that took him to the Dak bungalow.
This particular rest-house was a good
one well-built in the Dutch style of per-
haps a hundred and fifty years earlier,
with a thatched roof many feet thick, and
the usual deep veranda with pilasters
some two-feet) square. The rooms, high-
ceiled, eight-doored, airy, had their mud
floors covered with coir mating. The furni-
ture was, naturally, the cheap county stuff
common in such places. Nixon, climbing
into the painted, red wooden bed with its
four posts and voluminous mosquito-net
(his own), gave not one thought to his
strange experiences of the previous night;
they were worlds away. He had left the
hurricane-lamp turned low, as orders to
that effect were stringent. Though the
thugs who had once infested these regions
were exterminated or at any rate
nominally “rehabilitated” as Christians
in Salvation Army camps, there were
notorious thieves about; earlier in the
march some of the men, sleeping in their
blankets, had actually had, without being
wakened, their blankets and their rifles
stolen; stolen from inside their sleeping-
bags. A light was the best defence.
Within 15 minutes Nixon was asleep.
HE woke, suddenly,, icy-cold, to look
across the bare, well-lighted bed-
room and see, standing on the cream
matting beside the table that served as a
dressing-table, the two tragic figures of his
earlier experience.
As before, he could see, fronting him,
the woman’s face, but not the man’s, for
his well-knit, muscular back was turned
to him, and only the dark hair, growing
to a peak on the strong, sunburnt neck,
had the familiar look that showed him to
be the same man.
The woman held in her hand a silver-
backed hairbrush. Evidently she was
speaking about it. Having made up his
mind to keep calm, not to run, this time,
Nixon, watching through the mosquito-
net, felt certain that he had, for these
quarrelsome lovers, no existence ; listen-
ing attentively, he could hear no voices.
But he could see the woman’s lips form-
ing words he could not catch as they
continued their interminable altercation.
She had been, it appeared, brushing her
hair. Long and dark, it flowed about her
lovely shoulders, and as he watched
Nixon saw her take from the brush she
had held a single hair. She showed it to
her lover, and even through the becloud-
ing net, and in that glimmering light,
Nixon could see it was not black, but
white.
The man, leaning towards her, divided
a thick tress from those jetty locks of hers
and drew it forward across her shoulders
Looking down on this as it brushed her
bosom, the woman saw, once more it
seemed, the cause of her earlier emotion
her convulsed face as she looked up at
him had in it no beauty, though, last
night, even m her fury, Nixon had thought
her beautiful.
.What is sin? ’ Nixon wondered as
those strange tremors of icy horror, that
impression of being utterly lost, eternally
abandoned, again invaded his soul. “This
is the sense of sin,” he kept saying to
himself, “this sense of being cut off from
God” ; and the idea came to him that sin
was betrayal, and that in some occult way
he had stumbled into the experience of
these lives which was being re-enacted so
passionately before his astonished eyes;
and that that intuition, that illumination,
of knowing their thoughts, again
possessed him#
Watching these uneasy ghosts he lived
through their tragedy.
“They have been lovers. He loves her
no longer. He is forcing on her notice
those white hairs because they are the
sign of some vow or promise she has
made to him.”
Aware of this, suffering with them, he
felt himself drawn into the region of
Lucifer, the fallen angel. The sense of
sin, of betrayal, of danger again streamed
through his nerves ; again he felt fear.
At this moment the man whose back
had hitherto been turned to him slewed
round suddenly to face him. Nixon re-
cognised him. He knew those suffering
features. Galvanised into action, he
struggled free of the enveloping net and
ran out of the room. He had endured
enough.
Once on the veranda, he did not
“Damn! Somebody's been sharpening these knives."
attempt to sleep, but paced its shadowy
length for the remainder of that night;
there was an hour or so merely before
sunrise.
“What I have seen,” he told himself,
“has little meaning. What I have experi-
enced is the devastating knowledge of
sin.”
His recognition of the man he had
watched brought its own problem,
Next morning, when once again,
before leaving, he read the entries in the
visitor’s book, he had no heed to puzzle
over the illegible signature: he knew it.
He read again the bizarre, the macabre,
need written under the heading Require-
ments. This time he did not laugh,
I XT * a- * u j • ,
1 * * hat dlstu * rbed where noting
* had s ° re t centl ?; b f n rife ’ where ’ earbe !;>
thugs, the travellers worst menace had
been S ? n « merous ’ and were f** t 0 be
encountered, every day’s march brought
have “n S> imSn^not
I ? is d fj> N “ o P’f third with
his battery, brought a trivial occurrence
with , the ' ives
already involved in the mystery being
unfolded before his shoeked eves He had
token it that th7eL
taKen J: lor granted mat the ghosts the
emanations (one figure, as he knew, came
a living man)-would be confined
to the bungalow where he had first seen
Ju nungaiow wnere ne naa nrst seen
them. He now realised that, three years
earlier, they had travelled, as he was
travelling, along the scenes of this un-
happy return, and that he must, this night,
again expect to encounter them.
For the past week, in the days before
Nixon had joined, the gunners had
•noticed a youth on a motor-bicycle. He
had rattled past the battery, bumping
over such room as could be made for his
passage; ditches prevented any wide
detour. This day he had met with
disaster. A buffalo had charged him, and
though he had been thrown free, unhurt,
his machine had been damaged. Going
into camp that evening the marching
gunners found this man waiting for
them. “Could they repair his bicycle?”
The farrier promised to attempt the work.
The stranger was, it appeared, a cor-
respondent ; “Foreign Correspondent” he
called himself, of a London daily. He
cheerfully told his hosts that he was on
his way to Calcutta to “write-up” a
twelve-toed dancer; a Nautch-girl.
lots of good ink in that baby,”
he told them.
He had with him a gourd-like musical
instrument, and after dinner he sang in a
tenor of unusual beauty a number ©f
those lyrics which for so many people
spell all they know of India.
At the first sound of Pale hands I loved
beside the Shalimar Bigge had got up to
go ; he said he had work to do.
Under those black trees, beneath that
star-sprinkled sky, Nixon, listening, was
again drawn into that sorrowful region
from which, during the long, arduous
day, he had kept himself free.
Those two tragic figures, the woman
with her long black locks, the man with
the face now so familiar, so baffling in
its implications, now reappeared to him ;
not as being present in that place, but as
he had previously seen them, standing on
the cream matting by the cheap table and
the looking-glass with its rim of painted
pine.
“I’ll be seeing you,” Julius [the guest]
said jauntily to Bigge as he was leaving,
pausing in his Song. “I’m spending the
night in the Dak bungalow with Nixon
here.”
“Sorry! ” Bigge told him quickly. “I’m
spending the night in the Dak bungalow
myself. I have some office-work I have
to run through with Nixon. I’ll arrange
for you to have my tent.”
He looked across at Nixon, who, look-
ing strangely at him, nodded.
Off he went.
WHEN Bigge had gone, Nixon drew
his canvas chair up beside the major,
who sat smoking a five-anna cigar—a
cheroot—and seemed approachable.
“Do you believe in ghosts, sir?” he
asked, with some diffidence.
Until that moment he had, as became
a newly-joined subaltern, waited to be
spoken to, before speaking.
“I keep an open mind.” The major
played for safety.
But Julius had no such reserves.
“I do!” he broke in. “Haven’t you
heard of Borley rectory? No one could
ignore the weight of evidence there!
Something supernatural occurred! I’ve
my own tale to back all that, too! When
the rector of Borley’s wife was ill in bed
my aunt called to see her. She laid her
bag, sunshade, gloves on a chair
right of the bed-well! My ■ tho
truthful woman—a canon's 7 wife ‘t a
that matter-and she told me she watchS
these three possessions of here
through the air, as if carried by som?
invisible person, right round the bed ?
be piaced on a chair against
th 6 left of the bed. Fact! ” lon
chSds US tW “ ged a few trium Phant
Nixon said hastily, “I don’t
£aSSr There ' s no
warmly. are meant‘to'Sl
tion to something!” Uen ‘
But Nixon persisted, addressing the
major. “Could the image of a living
person be projected, as a ghost’s is said
to be I mean, could a living man’s
wraith, let us call it be seen in one place
while his body-—alive-—is in another?”
This time the major came into the
open.
“I belonged for some years to the
Society for Psychical Research. There are
hundreds of such cases listed in their
annals. Very well authenticated, too”
Becoming interested in his subject, he
continued. “Suppose we agree that we
ourselves are not a conglomeration of
sound, feeling, light? Suppose we admit
that we stand outside these miracles—l
mean the miracle of sound, of feeling, of
light—and observe them? None of these
appearances are, in their wholeness,
entirely as they appear to us to be—do
you agree?”
His hearers did agree.
“Yes. Sound, feeling, light extend
beyond our knowledge of them. We
could presume, perhaps, that such an
extension of personality occurs when
a ghost is seen. Perhaps the unknown
rules that cause an extension of the self of
man may be of a similar nature to the
known rules that govern the extension
of light, which travels to us from the
stars, and beyond.”
“Ah, yes,” Nixon said thoughtfully.
“I can imagine such a thing happening.”
“In some six hundred cases which this
society has examined the extension of
personality occurs, usually, when the ori-
ginator of such an image is in great
mental distress —after all, someone has
said, ‘We have always more knowledge
than we suspect ourselves of possessing.’
We may have more powers! ”
Two servants came noiselessly across
the grass in their long white coats, red-
and-blue belts, and muslin turbans, their
gentle, deceptive faces anonymous in the
dusk, their hands red with who knows
how much blood? They took away the
coffee-cups and put, on the deal table, the
whisky, soda and glasses for a final
chat a peg.
It was late.
PRESENTLY, left alone, Nixon, paus-
I ing before going across to the Bax
bungalow, a thatched, harmless-loosing
place, fully realised that he dreaded
coming night, and the, association _
Bigge with his expected ordeal. Be I
certain that tonight would bring .
strange adventure to a crisis. He B ue . ,
now that his sympathy with Bigge
drawn him into the net of some?
betrayal, and in the wilder flights
fancy he pictured himself condon
murder ; in his weaker moments he
fear for his own safety. village
There were a number of the
children playing at blind-man
among the great boles of the the j r
encircling the camp. H e bear
childish shouts and their laught
made his way slowly towards tn f
bungalow. As he went he f° un . nat i o n,
measuring his strength, m nh 8 ~
against Bigge’s ; should there a
but why should there be?— they so
be evenly matched. Certainly Bgg> - n
adroitly planning to spend th .
the bungalow, had some plan t h o Ugh
Nixon was a tall lad strong
loosely, built. He had dime g bjg
eyes that go with reddish h , jjj ng ton
nose, too fleshy to be caded fine upstand-
nose, gave authority to h is , ’ e bad
ing frame. His mother’s
been “Corporal Sarah, an IoW to
her type, physically commanding, t
act and speak, tactless, pcrhap an
yet conscious of his owi . e bin l
character. The problem
weighed on his mind. , Bigg e j
From some distance he c lighted
lying in a planter’s chart o ut; in
veranda. The lamps we 0 f keeping
this instance, with the * d from being
mosquitoes and jnoth , g strong-
troublesome ; they show c on § bo dy, h> s
sad face, his nobly ., f ro m boy-
manhood hardly advan jj e c quld
hood’s more supple muscles. h paS t
not, Nixon considered, rnost,
twenty-three ; twenty-fo thin bing, ly lDg
and of what would he be
there? . , n t aV on a l° n f
He nodded to Bigge, who ray wrappe d
canvas chair, a Malay


round his hips. “I’ll be with you in a
few minutes,” he called out, and it was
barely a quarter of an hour later that he
sat himself down beside the senior
subaltern ; curious beyond measure. The
bungalow was farther from the camping
ground tonight; out of sight and sound
of it.
“L°?K here, Nixon,” Bigge began
' directly. “You really gave me a
great shock when you woke me the other
and described the two ghosts you
bad seen.”
He looked through the white pilasters
the billowing darkness of the trees
eyond, at the sickle moon, triumphantly
png the black, star-tossed sky. Not a
breath stirred.
a« Ce ” be went on > speaking slowly,
it he found it hard to choose his words,
n to restrain his emotion, “once that
lif orna c U saw utterly dominated my
e. She possessed me, body and soul.
cnm 0t tell y° u w hat I suffered. I had
com 6 °iP* rom England just as you have
ari( 4 e ’ tresh, almost, from school, home
mother! I knew nothing of life.”
as v ausec *> then broke out, suddenly,
“Invf se h' com mand seemed to snap—
beei Sl5 a terrible thing! When it first
Wro ! VoU,re bewitc hed! Right and
OU k now nothing of right
Worna Wr ° n^ — no thing exists but the
-"oni n whole world has no reality
One / S^e * s You talk of honor!
such ° rgets there is such a thing. Love —
Wom/ s W eet allure! I walked with that
seem pH m a w .°Hd where we two alone
shadows | to u Xist ° ther P e °P le were
giv e v. S ’ Her husband? We did not
batten/ 1 ? t thought. What duties in the
seeing h to * hid mechanically—
up thercf r .huage—as you see the moon
from nf ’ hhe a bright light always in
I coulH „ I ? e ’ Everything else was dark!
not get her out of my mind.”
He looked round at Nixon, relaxed in
his long chair beside him.
“Do you, I wonder, understand how
such a thing can be?”
“Oh, yes, I think I do, Nixon
answered. “I saw a woman in Lucknow
—I went there first, they didn’t wire me
that the battery had left and the gharri
driver took me through”—he fumbled for
a word „ .
“Oh —the dovecote country, bitterly
Bigge put in. ■
“Well —there were all those tawdry
villas—ghastly, in a hot white glare. And
the awful women sitting outside their
doors! I can’t get one of them out ot
my head! A big yellow-haired woman,
sitting in a blue satin skirt nothing
above it out in all the glare of a noonday
sun—l tell you it’s a terrible memory—l
want to forget it. I can’t.” He lowered
his eyes. “A plate of nectarines
Bigge interposed m quick disgust. It s
not like that at all. That is not what I
meant at all. I wanted you to under-
stand! Look here! It was an obsession.
I had no will of my own. I had no life
outside her wishes.” He thumped his fist
down on the wooden arm of his chair.
“And I got tired of her. I wanted to
get free. And she wouldn’t let me go!
I thought it wasn’t fair. I was so Y oun g-
She was ten years older. Scenes! My
stars! How they bored me! You saw
her face?”
He turned directly to Nixon.
“Yes. Bigge, I do realise you suf-
fered. To be possessed! I can’t imagine
anything more ghastly!”
“There is something more ghastly. 1 o
be bereft. That is what I am realising.
When we could get away together we used
to ride along this old road, and put up
each night at these rest-houses Heaven
at first! Hell at long last! Well! pis
is her chief haunting-ground. That dark
grove of trees where the children were
playing. That stretch of reedy water, that
ricefield, this veranda, this queer old
house! Her sanctuary! I’ve made her
sound a fiend! Oh! She was adorable!
I see her shape here. I hear her step. I
watch for her shadow! They say that
the shades of dead people can be shaped
where their dust is laid. Her dust is
here. Her shade is here. Nixon, I’m
going to watch with you tonight, in that
room behind us. You have stumbled on
our tragedy —Heaven knows how!
Nixon rose. , , .
“We’ll go in now,” he said, look-
ing at his wrist-watch. “It’s one o’clock
the hour I’ve usually seen those two
figures.”
Bigge rose and stood beside him.
“I had won a certain measure of peace,
during the last three years,” he said;
“then, riding this last fortnight through
the country we travelled together on that
last journey, I have never ceased to think
of her lying awake all night, going over
every word she said, seeing her vividly.
It has been my thought-wave you have
picked up, I believe. You have seen what
I have been remembering with such agony
of mind. I don’t know—l can’t guess—
whether, when you have me with you,
any wraith will come. But I must see
her! I must try—if we fail, tonight
there is no other night! It was here I
last saw her alive, here I left her, in
anger” *
Bigge’s face as he looked at his com-
panion had that look of wild emotion
which had been impressed on it in last
night’s vision of him. In the proximity of
so much sorrow Nixon was dumb.
He had expected, when they made their
way to the bedroom, to have to wait
before the ghost materialised, he feared,
even, that tonight, with Bigge beside him,
there might be no manifestation, but
directly he opened the door he saw her,
standing by the dressing table, the silver
hairbrush in her hand. He looked quickly
round to see whether Bigge was aware
of her, and his transformed face was
answer enough. He did see her! He
stood, looking at her, his soul in his eyes,
his mouth working like that of a man in
pain.
Looking again at the woman, Nixon
saw that the same transformation re-
animated her once-tortured, once so-
furious, face. He had doubted whether
this ghostly emanation of a woman he
felt was dead could become conscious of
the living world. There could be no
doubt that the woman was aware of
Bigge, that she saw him, that she could,
without speech, communicate with him.
He would have left them. The moment
seemed sacred. But he feared to move.
He was afraid that his mind, the mind,
perhaps, through which this poor shade
had materialised, being gone she might
go. He stayed.
That sense of horror, of sin, that
anguish which had formerly possessed
him when in the company of these un-
quiet spirits no longer assailed him. A
sense of peace, of utter beatification
swept through his whole being, and, look-
ing again at Bigge, he saw reflected in
that orice-torfured countenance the same
happiness.
Bigge took a step towards the woman,
his arms outstretched.
“She has forgiven me,” Nixon heard
him say, and looking back to that place
by the dressing-table where she had stood
he saw only the deal table, the cheap
looking-glass, the open green shutters of
the door behind it, the sickle moon,
higher above the ebony-trees. She had
vanished.
Bigge stood one moment, struggling
with his emotion. He turned and went
out.
NIXON did not see Bigge during the
day that soon dawned. He watched
from a distance the tall figure, busy
among the horses, the guns, the wagons ;
he rode behind him on that day’s sixteen-
mile march ; he was aware of him, across
the camp-table at breakfast; but it was
not till the following evening, when they
had encamped by Sasaram, that Bigge
sought him out.
There is, beside this village, a lake that
seems to stretch right across to the
horizon, for no high ground rises beyond
it. A causeway leads to an ancient tomb,
built up like a castle in the centre of this
stagnating water. As Bigge and Nixon
stood together on the margin of this wide
expanse, the sun, setting to the left, dyed
every cloud in the sky, and every reflected
cloud in the water, lit now to an equally
brilliant rose-color, to an incandescent
red. Through this radiance a thousand
flights of pigeoqs, of duck, of wild-fowl,
winged their way through the distempered
heavens, or swam in the crimson waters
of the lagoon. It was an evening saturated
in color which, as the* two friends
watched, faded through scarlet to amber,
through yellow to blue, through lavender-
to indigo ; and was then redyed in the
. :un’s last flaring rays.
“I hope your mind is at rest, Bigge,”
Nixon said, when they had waited, un-
speaking, to watch the wild conflagration
of the clouds and the water, burning, it
seemed, in an incredible fire.
“Yes,” Bigge answered. “Yes. She has
forgiven me. There is peace between us.
I know now that all my life long she will
be with me. And that her presence will
help me to endure the lonely years.
His face again changed to that look of
strain and sorrow with which Nixon was
now familiar. “I don’t deserve such for-
giveness ! But it’s redemption bought by
suffering! That makes it pardonable in
me to accept at least a moiety of peace.
He was again swept by that gusty an 8
hardly controlled. “I tell you, Nixon,
he insisted, staring at his young com-
panion with sombre eyes ; “I tell you that
never for one instant did I dream that
she would carry out her threat. She had
so often sworn that she would take her
own life when she found her first white
hair! I thought it one of her poses! Her
dramatic moments! Honestly! I swear
to you that I never imagined she d do it!
In a lower voice he added, “In this very
lake! Drowned herself!”
AFTER a silence during which they
watched the sky s astounding
alchemy, Bigge sighed.
“She has forgiven me, he murmured,
as if in wonder. .
“Why should she forgive you/
Nixon asked. “You say she had sworn
to kill herself when she found her first
white hair —in so passionate a woman it s
understandable ” ....
There was silence. Only the birds were
noisy on the wide blood-red lake.
“Why blame yourself? Why should
you need her forgiveness?”
“To remind her of her age only tor
that, Nixon, I swear to you”- Bigge
looked at him strangely, deeply moved
“only for that, Nixon, I swear to you
by all I hold holy—l put tiwse white
hairs there, where she should find them.
FIVE POEMS ..
CITY PARK.
By NANCY KEESING
Here the surf of the city breaks and re-
After Ce pounding the cavernous streets,
A washing through buildings.
It has surged and elevated, cracked and
dragged down.
Inert, at the verges, lie what the foam
Of drifting beauty, chance or besotted ex-
crescence , , ,
(Wrappings discarded from food or un-
wrapped from souls) *
Or stronger younger swimmers at res}:
from the sea- . . ,
All here, in accidental disjointed con-
crescence.
That sea may be heard at secondhand in
shells,
You can hold the daily sheets to your ear
and listen .
To the sound and rustle of the city in
black and white, >
To the intimate exposures of private hells:
These very old repetitions decked out as
news
Whirl through the spiral chambers of the
talismans.
Now on this strand the sound is direct, as
powerful
As the black beachcombers who search
the sands in twos.
Who would guess, who walks in the morn-
ing light
When the surf is calm; who would imagine
sailing
On some propitious regulated tide
Over the parallel seaways,- the things of
night?
Shipwreck may come with the sun,
foundering with noon,
Reclaim from drowning: cruel compulsion
to live,
Exhaustion with evening. Who will be
cast up where
Like a wormy spar beneath an electric
moon?
WHAT’S TO BE DONE?
I hate these fascinated feet
which lead me where I would not go;
I turned my head and closed my heart
And to my feet commanded, “No.”
And now my head and now my heart
Must follow where feet point, no choice,
And, oh! the loathing that I have
To hear my disobedient voice •
Speak words of greeting, vagrant words.
Such as my mouth was never taught
To suit this moment, fit this part.
Had I not shut my mind from thought
Although my steps had led me here
I could have coldly passed you by,
Nor need a glance like a lick of fire
Have passed between eye and eye.
But distance covered, word spoken,
Head and heart turning—
What’s to be done with the wild fire
Burning and burning?
MUTES.
We who are born deaf and who, being
dumb,
Communicate imperfectly, grope and
stumble
Through cipher messages, make search
among
Inaccurate signs; know ever out of reach
What’s to be said outruns our confused
speech.
For I would be exact with you and make
Accurate all abstract conceits and visions
And understand your soul without mistake,
As happens so rarely when between eye
and eye
Our thought combines in absolute unity.
But now too often obscurity, a hood,
Muffles our mouths and shuts us from true
sight.
Intimate expression is no more under-
stood
Than if it were whispered from plain to
mountain peak.
Then you must learn to hear, and I to
speak;
And you to speak and I to comprehend
In language yet undiscovered, with fine
precise
Symbols, where sight, sound, feeling so
rightly blend
That meaning may have no shades, be
true and clear,
And you and I both see, and speak, and
hear.
TWO PENNIES.
This thing happened
On a day of sun,
The brightest 1 have seen.
I was alone . . .
And walking along
A tarred road, wjiite
From blazed reflection
Of the sun’s light.
When you walk in the heat
That beats'on fertile land
Which never suffers drought,
Life seems just at hand.
You could swing your arm
Like a curved knife
And acknowledge—-Thus
Do I reap life . . .
Then slow, heavy, black,
A hearse drove by.
Energy ebbed away
From earth . . , Air . . . Sky . . .
Dull came a voice:
“I who am dead
Looked long at this sun *
Through two holes in my head.
“I who am dead
Having lost my eyes
Have twin holes in a bone
Burnt to the true size
“Of the summer sun
Exactly at midday.
They have placed copper pennies
To hide the holes away.”
Again alone, hot life
Boiled into my breath
Though such white roads
Lead all men to death.
Now I keep two pennies
Polished carefully
Against two charred sockets
When they bury me.
I HAVE SEEN GREAT WATER-
BIRDS.
I have seen great water-birds arise
From sunset-opalled swamps beside a
creek.
I heard their greeting to darkness, lonely
cries
Of sorrow as they stretched their throats;
those sleek
And shining necks could no longer contain
Sadness’ own sound. I thought I heard
The distillate and essence of all pain
Rasp in the voice of every beautiful bird.
They rose majestically and shook unfurled
Their huge air-dominant wings, resistant
curves
That carry them through the air-space of
that world
I have not seen. And I—ears, eyes and
nerves —
Strained after them; mourning their final
trace,
Water-drops shaken from their wings;
ephemeral bright
Tokens, precious upon my arms and face,
Unwanted impedimenta to their flight.
Splendor was here, and now all strength
has flown
Over the calm prayer of the vast night
sea.
Smooth wing-beats echo a rhythm dimly
known
Or half-known. Rocking flight is mystery
Scored in a vibrant message on the air
That closes round progressions, seems dis-
arranged
After as before, and yet is everywhere
Whipped into life, altered- and subtly
changed.
Rooted as sure as the mangroves I remain.
With non-existent wings my shoulders
grieve,
While yearning for vanished birds grows
into pain
So actual—impossible to believe
The impossibility of flight. It seems
That of my mind at least the birds are part
And fly within my wish, within my dreams
Over the hidden landscapes of my heart.


f
r*
fen
V^pjshes
ARE EASY . . .
&
S'
with f he
4-oven AGA COOKER
Yes. it’s cleaner . . . cooler . . . easier with an AGA! Here is
a Cooker that is almost automatic no gadgets to watch, no
switches to turn, no matches to strike. Twenty-four hours a
day, its 3 hot-plates and 4 ovens are ready for instant service,
for the AGA burns continuously ... yet its guaranteed
maximum fuel consumption cannot exceed 3i tons of coke per
year! Each of its 4 ovens automatically maintains an exact
temperature (1) a roasting oven for joints (2) a baking oven
for bread and cakes (3) a
simmering oven for soups, cas-
seroles, porridge, etcetera (4) a
warming oven for keeping food
and plates hot. The vitreous
cream enamel and chrome finish
is easy to keep sparkling.
GUARANTEE
10
British-built, the AGA Is guaran-
teed for 10 years against faulty
materials and workmanship.
SEE A DEMONSTRATION OF THE 'AGA* OR WRITE FOR
FULL PARTICULARS TO:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD. 45 king st.. stone/
STREET . MELBOURNE; 113 GRENFELL STREET. ADELAIDE; CNR.,
w/c D R crr B RE J ,iv.^ l T BERT STREETS, BRISBANE; TASMANIAN AGENTS: A. G.
WEBSTER & SONS LTD., HOBART; W.A. AGENTS: MALLOCH BROS. LTD., pIrTM
A2/100
BRANDAUERrS
ẁ
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitation*
C. BRANDAUER A CO. LTD, BIRMINGHAM, ENft
To safeguard the welfare
of your dependents
3.
A simple procedure
1. Make a list of your Assets and! your Liabilities
and of those whom you wish to share m y
2. Confer with a Senior Officer of Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited and make a sound pan ?’ * t j, e
Estate so that your dependents shall rec
maximum benefit. , t jt
Have your Solicitor draw your Will 50
embodies this plan.
4. Appoint Perpetual
Trustee Company
Limited as your
sole executor —or
jointly with a rela-
tive or friend. The
Company’s 62
years’ experience
and its facilities will
ensure efficient
management of
your Estate—when
it is called upon to
act.
The services offered by
the Company and its
charges are explained in a
booklet, "Your Executor
and Trustee,” which has
been found most helpful
*by many men (and
women) with Estates to
bequeath.
Call or write for a
copy today.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR. M.L.C.
(Chairman).
E. B. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. j. p- ABBOTT;
D. B. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN:
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director,
A . Q. ABMYTAGE, Manager
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATE
EXCEED £68,000,000^
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMIW
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT ETC *
ATTORNEY FOB ABSENTEES & OTHERS.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY^
TAMW'ORTH
OFFICES AT WAGGA
WjAGGA,
People AREN'T Poultry
FROSTY gravel crackled
under the tyres of Seft’s
bike and the night cold
stung his ears. He was be-
ing caught briefly in street-light
pictures—a crouching cyclist in
red club jersey and shorts, with
bare legs driving. Lamp-posts
were scaly with moths, and from
the foot of each the glowing,
hunter’s eyes of a cat watched
him pass on his way out to
Hoffey’s Glen, As he pedalled
through the illumination of a
service-station, a man in a taxi-
driver’s cap urged him on from
a cabin doorway:
“Go for your life.”
Seft flung back an exultant re-
tort. “Wheee! ”
A burst of laughter followed
him. “They’re after you, boy.”
Seft chuckled. Crazy. The
taxi-driver had thought him
crazy. And what if he was? It
was the craziness of pride in
virility, in the power of his driv-
ing legs and of abandonment to
the glamor of the night. The
road rolled away, a shadowy map
of ruts and stones, under his
headlight. Distance was over-
come and he bored triumphantly
into the darkness beyond the
township’s last light. He was
moving without effort, flying
almost. His breath was cold in
his throat. He sped past glim-
mering farmhouse windows and
looming barns. A conqueror of
the night.
This was the wonder he had
tried to explain to his mates in
the brewery office and to his
girl, Elaine. But he had never
found the right words. All he
had said had sounded childish
and never an answer to Elaine’s
wistful reasoning:
“But where does it get you,
Seft, riding about by yourself at
night like that?” Elaine had
melancholy eyes, and the way
she worried at trifles was apt to
be disconcerting.
“But it’s not just training. It’s
different, Elaine, You like to
run, don’t you?”
“Yes, but I don’t run about
by myself at night.”
There had not been much con-
solation either in having Elaine’s
mother take his side. She was
a placid woman, always bursting
out of another shapeless dress,
and had managed to shrug off
more than her share of trouble
by assuming that everyone had a
kink of some sort. Seft’s, she
thought, might easily have taken
a less harmless direction.
And then there was Robin
Creed, across the office desk, pat-
ting his paunch wickedly and
boasting in his dry, sibilant voice
that he, for one, had not wasted
his youth biking aimlessly round
the countryside. When in more
irascible mood, Greed would hint
broadly that less cycling non-
sense and more attention to
figuring would be appreciated.
Miss Langbury said she under-
stood. She was the office typist,
and had for years been “under-
standing” somebody or other, be-
ing herself so open to misunder-
standing that she dared not leave
the brewery office without a
heavy coating of powder on her
nose.
'"TONIGHT for once he was
1 riding “somewhere for some-
thing.” The brewery picnic was
to be held as usual out at Hoffey’s
Glen, and there were arrange-
ments with old Joe Hoffey to be
made.
“Seft’s the man for organiser,”
a member of the picnic com-
mittee had suggested. “He can
shoot out to the Glen on his
bike and see the old man it any
time.”
A murmur of agreement had
gone round the dining-room:
“. . . No petrol worries with
a push-bike, eh, Seft? The
fittest fnan among us ... a fine
example ...”
This wheedling sent a terse
retort leaping to Seft’s mind, but
he forbore. Instead he told the
picnic committee, “For a starter
I’d put a stop to old Hoffey
running things like a poultry-
farm this time.”
This had caused some objec-
tion. It was just Joe Hoffey’s
idea of a joke and alt part of
the fun, someone had said. The
speaker, Seft observed, was one
of those who took a delight in
egging the old man on.
If there was any humor in
insults, Seft told them, he failed
to see it. An incident of last
year’s picnic rankled. Elaine
had been insulted. She had won
her race, speeding away from a
motley of plodding, loping,
tripping females who had little
more than tenuous brewery con-
nections in common, and he had
thrilled to see her graceful style
and her hair flying. Then had
come Joe Hoffey’s insult: “First
the brown Leghorn.” Elaine
had laughed wryly, but he knew
how sensitive she was about her
dark complexion. Yet she had
kept him from remonstrating
with the old man. “Where’s
your sense of humor, Seft?” she
had chaffed.
Seft conceded old Joe Hoffey
nothing on the plea of humor;
he was not going to have his girl
insulted again.
“And another thing,” he told
the picnic committee, “I’d see
old Hoffey about getting up to
the top flat.”
This had found more objectors.
Joe Hoffey would turn nasty if
he was pestered, they said, and
might refuse them the use of
the Glen altogether.
But Seft was enthusiastic about
the top flat, which was a basin-
shaped recess set into the sunny
wooded side of the hill. The
strip allowed to picnickers lay
along the creek and was open to
a coursing breeze, prickly as a
hedgehog, that would come down
the Glen when shadows
lengthened and cause picnickers
to regard wishfully the top flat,
sheltered and in full sun. Up
there, too, Seft argued, those less
active could watch what went
on below and enjoy the view
along the Glen as they lay back
and yarned. In other years, the
way leading up to the top flat,
through gorse and blackberry,
had been barred by a padlocked
gate.
“I don’t see why we can’t get
up there,” Seft maintained. “He’s
got no fowls up there now.”
“Don’t get the old man’s back
up, that’s all,” someone had
cautioned.
However, protests had been
tempered so that Seft’s appoint-
ment as picnic organiser would
not be upset. Nobody else
wanted the job. He had given
the committee an undertaking
that he would use tact, and the
rest had been gladly left to him.
HE passed a hall. There were
no trees round it to break
the light streaming through the
windows, and from inside came
the song of a choir, sopranos
straining in flight from mumbling
basses. Alongside, water rippled
under a tiny bridge. Seft, ex-
cited by the night, was moved
to mirth by the thought of ail
that energy, contained and spent
in isolation, with only the gig-
gling bridge to appraise its
absurd earnestness.
He mused on Joe Hoffey as
he rode along. Insight was
keener and he saw new light on
the °J2 T man ’ s behavior. The
way old Joe carried on at
S
believe. That fussing an d boss-
ing and poultry talk. And me
mg people at the gate and Xo-
mg them to spots he’d chm °
Talking of sandwiches as drv
mash and nonsense like that th
was encouraged, of course ' But
his concern for the welfare of
picnickers was apt to be a bit too
zealous and personal for com-
fort. Some women resented his
familiar jostling and smacking
though others were highly
amused. As humor, it was over-
done and too methodical, Seft
decided. Three or four’years
running now he’d shooed Elaine’s
people to the same spot under
the hawthorn hedge. And what
about his memory-recalling
little personal things that any-
body else would have forgotten
five minutes after they hap-
pened? Always it was the per-
sonal touch that interested him.
Remembering the results of
games and races, too. Just as if
he kept a record, which he must
have done when he had kept
poultry in the Glen—as if people
were indeed poultry.
What was it he’d said to
Elaine’s mother, now ... some-
thing pretty personal , . .?
Seft’s bike skidded and jolted
him out of his reverie. He
righted himself, though at the
cost of a stubbed toe, and
cautiously negotiated a tricky
stretch.
“. . . Soon be ready for the
axe, old girl.” That was it. That
was what Joe Hoffey had told
Elaine’s mother as she had
lumbered across the Glen.
Upheld by his buoyant mood,
Seft found entertainment in the
thought of Elaine’s mother as an
aged and overfed fowl, somno-
lent and with her head tilted
quizzically. Other pictures arose
likewise as he sped along. Miss
Langbury running from the office
cloak-room to one of her
juniors in the corner, with hei


Tad a. little
does a lot /
II
&
\
■JsWOTfc ;
" i 'i ‘
&}r\ X* i%v« ; S& ■> > '■*"£s■
- '
9 time
$0
The Economy SAUCE
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep. Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit
and Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activity.
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or 1/2-8 posted from
Bulletin Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
AN ECONOMY RIAN FOR THE POWER FARMER...
The Lemcol L5O (illustrated) makes an easy one-man task of loading and
moving the heaviest drum or barrel, and the Lemcol range includes
other drum handling equipment and straight hand trucks suffi-
cient to meet any requirement. For full information,- write to
any of these Lemcol distributors:
8.A.; Industrial Truck and Equipment Co.; McPherson’s Ltd.; Wm. Adams
& Co. Ltd'.; Cornell Ltd.; Harris, Scarfe Ltd.; Lemcol Sales and Service Co.
N.S.W.; Eliza Tinsley Pty. Ltd.; E. W, Cox; Power Engineering Supplies
Pty. Ltd.; Win. Adams & Co. Ltd.; J. C. Ludowici & Son Ltd.; McPhersons
Ltd. VIC. & TAS.: Perrot & Adams Pty. Ltd.; Eliza Tinsley Pty.
Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd.; J. C. Ludowici & Son Ltd.; McPhersons Ltd.
O’LAND• Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.; Hoey Try i ty. xa, ~
*Wm Adams & Co. Ltd. W.A.; Atkins (W.A.) Ltd.; McPherson’s Pty.
’Ltd.; Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd.
$ Wheels and Casters only.
/
r
A,/
s
\ '
m
\\ \
\ \ \
Q
mum
ẃ
ẅ
w
LEMCOL
DRUM
CRADLE
ŵ
i
M
M
LEMCOL
L5O TRANSPORI
ẁ
“LEMCOL” THE NAME THAT CARRIES WEIGHT!
LDI9
ẃ
ẅ
craned and carrying with
S som? dress bauble for dis-
Ssion- an attitude for all the
3d “ exci ‘ ed ibS laC ße g
with a new-found titbit. Be
there was her anxious
Stag speech, a voice right at
hr>me in a fowlhouse.
h He revelled in this heightened
sense of fun. Ahead, a pattern
of village lights had snapped into
vicW*
Robin Creed came next to
mind; scratching about in his
desk for frequent snacks and
bragging of his youthful prowess
rakish bird with his finest
feathers gone. Creed’s perky
good-morning coming from be-
hind the cashier’s partition
announced the
start of the office
day no less surely
than a cock s
crow marked the
dawn. Seft was
puzzled for a
moment by
another feathered
likeness—-a rooster
of comic philosophic demeanor,
jostled always to the end of the
perch—and then he identified it
with Elaine’s father, who was a
downtrodden weedy man and
worked as a cooper in the older
part of the brewery called “the
dump.”
This imagery so pleased Seft
that he felt inclined to grant Joe
Hoffey a sense of humor after
all. But he recalled his humili-
ating reference to Elaine’s trace
of Maori blood —“First the
brown Leghorn” and he
pedalled even more vigorously
than before,
AT the cross-roads, light shone
over a high hedge, from be-
hind which came the sound of
a football being kicked about
and shouted oaths. Hoffey’s
Glen was a hundred yards or
so down to the left.
Seft turned off and clattered
over a planking bridge. Soon
he was unfastening the gate and
pushing up the rise to Hoffey’s
house.
The picnic-ground and the
creek were dark below, and the
opposite hillside was faintly out-
lined. Seft moved warily. A
hill-face was one side of the
track, but the other was a margin
of tangled 'blackberry, treacher-
ously screening a drop to the
creek. He speculated on ruts
running perilously close. The
track ran past the house up to
the top flat, but a safer route was
through the picnic-ground and
across the creek. There was a
serviceable bridge down there. A
light was burning in the house.
Seft laid his bike against a
tree. There seemed to be no
path round the house, and so he
crossed the veranda to the front
door and knocked. The cold
was rising in waves from the
creek, and as he waited he bent
down and slapped at his legs,
hying to restore lost warmth.
He knocked again. He heard
no sound inside.
Suddenly the door was opened
and old Joe Hoffey stood there.
The old man was obviously
puzzled by his visitor’s garb. He
Peered over the top of his glasses,
rising on tiptoe as if to observe
some oddity over a fence. Seft’s
greeting was ignored. Old Joe
was looking through his glasses
and then over the top, through
and over the top, moving up and
down on his toes and asking
slowly as he did so:
Was there something you was
wanting?”
He was slightly built, an out-
dor man who had dried out to
nat stage of tree-like permanence
hat makes such a cheat of death
when it comes.
1 ve just hiked out from
town,” Seft explained. “My
nces over there against that
nf e ' ve come t° arrange about
the picnic, Mr. Hoffey.”
i. then you’re from the
biscuit factory?”
No; the brewery.”
v "S* Yes,” the old man said,
xed by a lapse of memory,
t i °. u were here last year with
me brewery.”
a^ sum tng nonchalance,
? • I hiked out from town to-
ni Bht to fix things up.”
But J°e Hoffey seemed to
think little of this effort. He
beckoned Seft inside and closed
the door behind him. As they
went down a passage Seft was
pleasantly aware of approaching
warmth, and in the sitting-room
to which the old man led him
he found a fire burning brightly.
Hr HE room smelt as musty as
1 a paper-store. A boot-box,
or something like it, had been
hung over the electric-light bulb
for a shade, and from out of
the darkness which in conse-
quence shut off the ceiling and
upper walls there dangled a
series of fly-papers, twisting
slowly and thick with dusty flies.
Newspapers were everywhere. A
corner of the
room was stacked
high with them,
all neatly bundled.
Some of these
bundles showed
by their muddy
footmarks th at
they had been
used as steps to
build the main pile. They
rose from a cupboard into
the upper darkness. A paper
covered the table. It was littered
with crumbs and food-stained;
written on, too, Seft noticed,
making out reference in large
copybook writing to “ . . . rows
of spring-cabbage ...” and
“ . , . ample manuka
blocks ...”
Joe Hoffey took a heap of
loose papers from a chair and
set it before the fire.
“Sit down and get a warm,”
he said.
“Thanks.”
“I like lying back in my old
armchair here,” the old man
said. “Ah —that’s better.”
Then Seft saw that the other
papers were marked in much the
same way as that serving as a
tablecloth; they showed signs
of past meals —tea-cup rings and
gravy stains and likewise
carried written records. All the
bundled papers had evidently
passed through the stage of that
now covering the table.
“There was a lot of talk at
the brewery picnic last year,”
the old man challenged, regard-
ing Seft with fugitive hazel eyes.
“About the top flat, Mr.
Hoffey?”
“Yes.”
Tactful domination was the
caper, Seft decided. The old
bloke was meek enough.
“We’d appreciate the use of
the top flat this year,” he said.
“I keep a padlock on that little
gate, you know.”
“Yes, Mr. Hoffey, that’s what
all the talk was about.”
But old Joe sat there blinking
for a while and then seemed to
think better of giving a direct
answer,
“I heard somebody call me a
mean old hound,” he com-
plained.
Seft was incredulous. “Who
called you that?”
“A woman it was. And I’ll
tell you just what she looked
like.”
Even before the old man had
finished speaking he was kneel-
ing at a pile of papers. He
eased out a bundle and opened
it up.
“Your last picnic was about
the middle of March?” he asked,
checking through.
“That’s right, Mr. Hoffey.
We’re later this year.”
“Here it is,” Joe Hoffey said.
He ran his finger down a list of
pencilled items. “She was a
big woman with her hair cut
short and ear-rings.”
Seft shook his head. “Don’t
know her.”
“She smoked a lot.”
“No” Seft said. “Nobody I
know, Mr. Hoffey. Best just
forget that sort, that’s what 1
say.” Then he gave an in-
gratiating chuckle. “You write
your own news, I.see.
I OE HOFFEY grimaced rue-
U fully as if he had been
caught in some misdeed. It s
a trick of my dad’s.” He se ff|
back in his armchair. “He had
a store up at the diggings, you
know, and writing-paper wasn t
/any too easy to come by in them
days. So he wrote on old news-
papers like this and I just sort
of caught the habit off him.”
“You’re sure of getting the
truth that way, anyway.”
Old Joe peered over his
glasses. “Do you know how
much paper is wasted?”
“Eh?”
“Not printed on, I mean?”
“No.”
“I’ve seen it one page in
three,” the old man declared im-
pressively.
Seft was less happy now about
his strategy of tactful domina-
tion. He suspected he was being
side-tracked and played out.
And, after all, there was his
responsibility to the picnic com-
mittee. He was not getting the
use of the top flat this way.
“But there must be some white
space,” he said as he sought
some reasoning basis. What
about the inside of the o’s?”
The old man flung manuka
blocks triumphantly into the
dying fire. “I’ve never written
inside the o’s. See that ‘o’ there
in ‘clock’? I haven’t written in
there, have I?”
“Well, no.”
“You admit that, then?”
Seft was cautious and a trifle
impatient. “I’m not admitting
anything, Mr. Hoffey. I came to
ask for the use of the top flat,
that’s all.”
“I lost a lot of birds up there
on the top flat. The ground’s
bad with infection,
So the old dodger’s coming out
into the open at last, thought
Seft, protesting, “But it’s dif-
ferent for human beings, even if
the ground is bad.
The old man crossed the sit-
ting-room again, bootlaces trail-
ing, to search another stack of
papers. Seft moved his chair
back. The fire was burning his
legs. Idly he watched the fly-
papers curling and uncurling. He
may as well go home. Old
Hoffey was at his paper nonsense
again,
“Here,” said the old man, and
(Continued on page 52.)


WHERE
CACalatWi MOVE MERCHANDISE MOVES
. ;V:
8W ■
SALES Climb WHEN CUSTOMERS RIDE
ON Otii ESCALATORS
This Otis escalator installation at Boans Ltd.,
Perth, W.A., extends a pleasant invitation to
customers to see other floors ... to see more
merchandise ... to buy more.
Escalators promote inter-floor circulation,
provide ground-floor accessibility to lower-
ground or upper floors.
Put motion into your sales promotion plans
with Otis escalators—your local Otis office
will be glad to survey your store and give
you h i! facts.
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE
BRISBANE . PERTH . HOBART . NEWCASTLE
AS! I! I COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED
op C/V
°TIS
- «o^r- s ferr
TSew Installations
of Post-war Design
OTIS ESCALATORS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
V
M
Established 1808 in Reign of
George ///•
STABILITY
of Waterloo, and has «n
erged from them all with
greater strength and p
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD
(England)
atlas
8 SPRING STREET, S
F. V. MIERS, / la .S r ’Managed
E . V. ELDER, Assistant » ftland .
for Australia and A w Jlanag er
LEONARD Zealand^
for Australia and ——.
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pioe Tobacco
„ Ready
“CANADIAN f C« t de d
Rubbed Aromatic E me &f In SJ»
from lop Q^ a “H pe) . IP. or 1
Packs. Priced W" P ei
Priced 22/- Pf r ll .’; , B eady R . ub o o e z d
“PACIFIC” Pin® . Mildness, i n , ooS e
for Satisfaction and mu or loos
Packs, Priced 3/- P« r y
priced 22/- per IR -. „, ne Old
“WINSTON.” That 1 tba t is Oy,
Matured Pipe price d 20/
even better than ever
perlb Loose. «ood
Remember WINS
Write: MAID OK _ ,e
Canadian Pac-fic
Tobacco
Bo* 77, Valley 0 ’ bI)B R.
CASH WI^L PATCH.
prompt DESPA orders
Special
Playfor's Housing Effort
In South Australia the cost of buying a home is much cheaper
than in the eastern States. This article gives some of the reasons.
OWING to what seems to
a traveller from the
eastern seaboard like
some magic quality in the
air. South Australia appears to
be able to compass miracles.
One of these miracles concerns
housing.
It is true that Adelaide, at
any rate, presents ideal conditions
for success. It does not suffer
the craggy terrain of Sydney, in
which some householders live
like mountain goats out on a
ledge of rock. Neither does it
put up with the same sort of
labor shortage as Sydney, owing
to loaf and strike. Cost of land
in S.A. is a tithe of the price
of allotments within reason-
able reach of the business centre
of Australia’s greatest city, where
some residential sites away from
regular transport and more than
15 miles from town have sold
recently up to £lO a foot.
But with all this given in the
Playford scheme of housing is
something unique in Australia
today. It does not employ the
attention of a teeming horde of
civil servants. It is run from a
small office by a trust of which
the chairman and main operative
member is Mr. J, P, Cartledge,
Assistant Parliamentary Drafts-
man, who is virtually managing-
director. The other members
have included a well-known
businessman, a former Premier,
a financial man and a couple pf
civil engineers. But the main
directive work falls on Mr. Cart-
ledge’s shoulders.
The scheme was planned in
1937. It began operations with
about £25 in the hat. In Novem-
ber that year it completed f six
houses at Rosewater in the
metropolitan area. The follow-
ing March it turned off 42 at
Croydon Park North. During
its first financial year the total
houses built were 84 ; the next
year just on 300. The work
languished during the war, but
in 1940-41 the trust began to
build in country towns, the first
being Whyalla. Some hundreds
of homes now have been built
at Whyalla. Half a dozen other
towns have Housing Trust
houses to show. The annual
output now -has reached over
1500 a year, of which about
five-eighths are for rental and
the rest for purchase.
Homes the Aim
Mr. Playford’s housing scheme
does* not deal in blocks of flats
and tenements. Its aim is to
provide homes. Some of the
estates which are being developed
are as large as a sizeable coun-
try town. Woodville Gardens,
for instance, consists on com-
pletion of 421 houses.
At Kilburn there is one estate
with 218 houses. But there is
sufficient variety in the layout of
buildings and of living areas to
mitigate against v monotony.
Streets rarely run straight. The
dwellings are laid out in blocks
of a dozen units or more, each
block surrounded by a wide
roadway. Sometimes the com-
mission builds a shopping-centre
to meet the needs of the com-
munity at large.
The types of houses vary.
Some types have been dictated
by necessity in the past few
years, owing to general shortages
or bottlenecks in material supply.
Generally speaking, however,
the aim has always been to pro-
duce something in brick with a
tiled roof and with all modern
amenities. But not always is it
possible to maintain the aim. In
late years the material situation,
labor restriction and infrequency
of demand have called for
timber-framed homes.
The normal dwelling has five
rooms —in the metropolitan area
between 70 and 80 per cent, be-
long to this classr—three bed-
rooms, sleepout, living-room,
kitchen, bathroom and laundry.
Thus preference in housing
generally goes to families with
more than one child. Married
couples with one child, where
By M. H. Ellis
the family is not likely to in-
crease, are provided with two-
bedroom homes. Childless
couples can have a three-room
unit —if they can get it, the
demand for this class of home
being heavy, a fact due to the
call upon it from elderly people.
Last year plans were made to
increase the production of this
type of home. The ratio of
children to adults inhabiting
rented houses of the S. Australian
Trust is about four to three,
advertising the family nature of
the whole scheme. The ratio is
constant in Adelaide and the
country alike.
The outlay on the scheme from
the beginning is in itself a
miracle in economy. It has
operated for 13 years on total
Treasury advances of £5,975,000,
of which over two-thirds was
spent on houses for rent and the
rest on houses to be sold to the
public. This has provided a
total of over 6000 houses, the
bulk built since the war. Con-
tracts are let for 10,274 more,
of which 1691 are under con-
struction.
The financial side of the busi-
ness is conducted on rigid lines.
With an income from rentals of
round £150,000 average over
several years now the arrears in
rental rarely reach double figures
in any one year. Since the trust
began to operate in 1937 irre-
coverable rents written off total
only about £2. Possibly this is
because of the fact that with
applications for houses coming
in at the rate of about two to
one house available at periods
during the past five years tenants
are carefully chosen.
No Lotteries
There is no ballot for houses
of the trust. The gambling spirit
has not yet infected South Aus-
tralia. It is held that the lottery
system of selection is a bad one,
since the undeserving often win,
even When there is a basic weed-
ing-out to form a roster. Mr.
Cartledge’s method of choosing
tenants is simple. He has a
capable woman official who ex-
amines each application on
merits. She decides whether the
would-be occupant can be de-
pended on to look after a house
and whether his needs call for
priority. As the condition of
the rental and repair accounts
prove, she must have uncanny
judgment. The trust has con-
sidered other methods than those
in vogue, but it has come to the
conclusion “in the light of the
problem involved, and after in-
vestigation of methods such as
balloting and allocation on points,
that no system has been devised
which does not raise as many
difficulties and' anomalies as
those encountered at present, be-
sides requiring a considerably
larger staff to administer.” Every
care is taken to see that “houses
shall be allotted only to persons
who genuinely need them.”
Sydney Contrasts
The methods of the S.A. Trust
will be most appreciated in
Sydney, where there are still
numbers of Diggers with their
families living still in single
rooms at rents up to £4 a week,
or, worse still, boarding on the
wicked system which allows a
residential owner to charge
almost any daily rate he or she
cares so long as service is pro-
vided. No doubt there are thou-
sands in Adelaide With whom the
provision of homes will not catch
up until shortages of materials
from other States is replaced by a
shortage of strikes and go-slow,
which have done so much to keep
families out of homes through
non-production of bricks, roofing
and a dozen other essential items
without which the most willing
and prosperous community can-
not house itself properly. But
at any rate, when a family in
Adelaide or some S.A. country
town does obtain a trust home
it gets a good one and gets it
cheaply. The trust has the
power to vary rents, but it has
shown reluctance to do so, as
proved by the fact that up to
1948, 10 years after the inception
of the scheme, there was no sub-
stantial change.
In that year, however, it was
decided to increase the rents of
1165 houses in the metropolitan
area built before September,
1943, by 3s. a week “in order to
bring them into line with houses
of a similar type built since 1943
at higher cost.” Most of these
houses had been repainted ex-
ternally and some internally as
well, and repairs and maintenance
work are carried out as needed,
a matter in which the trust has
to mind its eye, since a frugal
and canny Government has no
dowered it with “funds from
which losses can be recouped.”
The Miracle
The trust reported in its 1948
resume of activities:
All houses of the original type in
the metropolitan area are now rented
at 16s. 6d. per week for three-room
houses, 17s. 6d. per week for four-
room houses and 18s. 6d. per week
for five-room houses—all with sleen-
outs. F
But with the new houses built on
post-war costs the economic rents
have steadily risen. In 1945 it
was 19s. 6d. for four rooms and
21s, for five rooms; but these
rates have risen on 1949-50
houses to the sum of 245. and
265. respectively. The few six-
roomed houses built in Adelaide
rent for 255. to 265.
Country houses were not
affected by the rise of rents. The
trust charges in the country are
about the same as in the capital
according to vintage and type.
“For Sale” Houses
The rise in values has been re-
flected in the prices of houses
built by the trust for outright
sale. These dwellings began to
go up in 1946. They are usually
scattered among rental houses on
the larger estates. They are
mainly five - room dwellings,
brick or stone.
They used to sell for from
£lO9O to £1150; but by 1950
the price had perforce risen to


I'm Sick of Sex
Most magazines these days
rv! ry articles like "Why not
Din 9» OUr husband he’s slip-
vm g ' Tlla t sweet young thing
t Uiaet at a party is liable
discussing the delayed
manhood of gorillas.
May Reader’s Digest,
Thomas Allen declares
Se kl L t hat he’s tired of frank
ch ' He plea ds with us to
serv ge tke subject and pre-
ro few of the worl d’s
In l? ed
than «« sanie issue are more
i nt articles of lasting
ine- r„ St ’ c ? nden sed from lead-
bookn a^ z . ines an d best-selling
Jr; p Mced at 1/6, Reader’s
keenc* 18 , st W Australia’s
hell re ading value. All
sa Sents and bookstalls.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TAS-
MANIA — In Divorce.
Launceston District Registry.
TO AMELIA HOLTON formerly of 2
Oorlettie Street Cooks Hill Newcastle in
the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that a Petition has been filed
in this Court endorsed with a notice to
you to appear and answer the charges
in the petition of JAMES JOHN SIDNEY
HOLTON of No. 243 St. John Street
Launceston in the State of Tasmania
praying for a dissolution of his marriage
with you on the ground of desertion In
default of you so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to heaf the said peti-
tion proved and pronounce judgment in
respect thereof AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
within Thirty days after the date of
this publication an appearance must be
entered at the Principal Registry of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania. Macquarie
Street, Hobart, or at the Launceston Dis-
trict Registry, Cameron Street, Launces-
ton.— (L.s.) D. W. SHIELDS, Acting
District Registrar. N. 8.: Friends of the
abovenamed AMELIA HOLTON who may
see this advertisement are requested to
bring it under her notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TAS-
MANIA— In Divorce.
Launceston District Registry.
TO BERNARD KENRICK GIBBONS of
No. 71 or 73 Thistlewaite Street South
Melbourne in the State of Victoria. —
TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice
to you to appear and answer the charges
in the Petition of NANCY LAVINIA
GIBBONS of No. 92 Frankland Street
Launceston in the State of Tasmania pray-
ing for a dissolution of her marriage with
you on the ground of desertion In de-
fault of you so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said peti-
tion proved and pronounce judgment in
respect thereof AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
within Thirty days after the date of this
publication an appearance ihust be en-
tered at the Principal Registry of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania, Macquarie
Street, Hobart, or at the Launceston Dis-
trict Registry, Cameron Street, Launces-
ton.—(ufs.) D, W. SHIELDS, Acting
District Registrar. N. 8.: Friends of the
abovenamed BERNARD KENRICK GIB-
SONS who may see this advertisement
are requested to bring it under his notice.
V
m
AUSTRAUA'S ICAD/A/SRAV/OUTCTR/CAL & SPORTS STORE
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST RANGE OF
GUNS & RIFLES
Ammunition Available with all Rifles
fl
LITHQOW
8 PORTER.
.22-cal. Ldthgow Sporter. Single shot
bolt action. 24in. round barrel, blade
frontsight, adjustable rearsight, double-
acting safety catch. Stock of Aus-
tralian coaehwood. Pistol grip and grooved fore-end £6/11/-
B 5
tITHGOW
REPEATER
.32 Slazenger’s Bolt Action Box Magazine
Repeater, made by the Lithgow Small Arms
factory. 25in. barrel, 6-shot magazine, easy
action safety catch, bead- frontsight, ladder
rearsight, satiuwood stock, with pistol grip £l3
'
BsA Ralock
AUTOMAtIC
•22-cal. B.S.A. “Ralock" Auto Rifle. Tube
magazine, loaded through side of butt.
Short model (takes 12 shorts) .. £2l/5/-
Model to take 8 long-rifle expected soon, £24/ 1 0/-
w
bsa 0
12/15 TARGET RIFLE
.22 B.S.A. Martini Single Shot Target Rifle,
Heavy 29in. barrel fitted with tube front-
sight, Parker Hale aperture rearsight.
Weight approx 91b £33/14/6
FREE SHOOTING AND
FISHING CATALOGUE
FREE AND POST FREE WRITE NOW
ŵ
BSA CADET
AIR RIFLE
B.S.A. Hi-Power Air Rifles. .177 bore, very
accurate and powerful. “Cadet” .. £B/15/-
“Cadet” Major £lO/15/-
Slugs—ll/- per 1000. .
>, , . V'-i
Winchester 33/20
32/20 “Winchester” Repeating Rifle. Lever
action type. Foreward grip, magazine holds
7 shots. Totally reconditioned. Shoots
.310 or 32/20 cartridges. Prices, £lB/15/-, £2l/5/-, £22/10/-, £24/18/6.
Cartridges—Prices 30/- and 57/6 per 100.
32/20 Savage “Sporter” Bolt Action Rifle.
Features heavy 25in. round barrel, box-type
magazine to hold five shots. Convenient
safety catch operated by thumb, bead fore-
t = __. Also shoots .310 or 32/20 cartridges. Cdm-
pletely reconditioned models priced at £lB/15/-, £3l/5/-, £33/10/-,
£34/18/6. Cartridges—3o/- and 57/6 per 100.
SAVAGE 32/20 ,
sight, ladder rearsight.
HI-POWER RIFLES
£>
LITHGOW
HORNET REPEATER
.33-cal. Slazenger’s “Hornet.” Built on Lee
Enfield action. 25in. barrel, 5-shot maga-
zine, open sights, ramp foresight. Specially
checkered stock and fore-end. Pitted with
sling swivels £32/10/9. Cartridges—6s/- per 100.
ms
SPRINTER 25 CAL-
Australia’s most outstanding Hi-power
Rifle. Muzzle velocity 3000 ft. per second.
Introducing the new .25-cal “Sprinter,”
built on world-famous (P. 17) Enfield
action. Heavy 25in. round barrel, fitted with aperture sights.
Magazine holds 6 cartridges. Loading gear available, Including
necking die. Cartridge case can be made from .303 cases .... £4O/17/6
ẁ
Actual size
of “Sprinter”
c a r t r I djfe.
90/- per 100.
ẃ
ẅ
.22 “Sprinter” Rifle. Built on Lee Enfield .303
action. Heavy 20in. round barrel, ten-shot
magazine, open sights, sporting stock and
fore-end. Muzzle velocity 3800 ft. per second. Price, £22/10/6.
Cartridges—7o/- per 100. Reloading set for above rifle including
necking dies £6/2/6
m
BSA single shot
HORNET
B.S.A. Single Shot “Hornet.” Specially
converted from .310 Martini-action rifles
and fitted with heavy round barrel.
£l2/18/6. Cartridges—63/- per 100.
SHOT GUNS
=Ss
SHOT SUN
12 GAUGE SHOT GUNS
By the Midland Gun Co £73/10/-
Ejector model £99/13/-
T. & W. King, special value £75/19/6
Belgian Hammerless, chambered for 2f cartridges £33/10/-
Belgian, single barrel hammerless
Lithgow single barrel, 410 gauge (built on .303 Lee Enfield action), £ll/14/8
w
TELESCOPIC
SIGHTS '
Can be fitted to any rifle. Mounts and fitting extra.
“Aldis” 2f Power Sporting Scope Coated Lense
Czech Imported 4-power Coated Lense
Czech Imported 3-power Coated Lense
Czech Imported 2s-power Coated Lense
Field Instrument Co. 3-power
Field Instrument Co. 2|-power
£2B/10/-
, £3O/-/-
£25/14/9
£2O/-/-
£lO/18/3
£B/8/-
REG A. BAKER
pty.
LTD.
291-293 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE. 81331
from £1730 to £1930 which
would scarcely buy a 10-square
fibro place with a 50ft. frontage
in Sydney’s outer suburbs.
✓
The Cheapest State
In the country, prices range
about the same despite the diffi-
culties and extra costs incidental
to rural building. Often in the
country there is only a con-
tractor in a small way operating,
and the job is too small to tempt
the big city operator, apart from
the fact that transit difficulties
and preferences for big works
make labor slower because of the
thinness of the dribble of
material for minor jobs. So far,
however, the low cost of metro-
politan building has enabled the
trust to subsidise country rents
without seriously affecting city
rentals. But this policy obvi-
ously can continue only so long
as the country building is re-
stricted, which will not be very
long, since plans for future
schemes have been made in over
“A rise , Mullett? But with all this value coming back into the pound ,
d’you think you'll need it?”
30 towns, and many others are
under investigation.
Mass-production
The trust in a recent report
summed up the whole position
with modesty;
Although references to the unavoid-
ably higher rents of recently built
houses should properly cause concern,
11 is at any rate gratifying that the
economic rents charged by the trust
tor its houses, both in city and
country, are lower than in any other
otate in the Commonwealth.
They undoubtedly are, and
the secret lies as much in the
method of construction as in the
restriction of top-heavy depart-
mental expense which hampers
other and more socialistic Gov-
ernment schemes of building in
me eastern States. The whple
administration of the trust
schemes, involving in 1948-49
about £4,000,000 - worth of
houses and shops apart from cur-
rent building in progress, works
out at round- £20,000 a year, ex-
lusive of rates and taxes, in-
crest, loan repayments, insur-
nce and maintenance provision.
oa ot^er w °rds, management
° s * s on the basis of. investment
date represent less than half
A« r J- eilt ' °f total capital outlay
°n the scheme.
the cheapness and suc-
ss of the whole plan depend
two factors—mass-produc-
tion combined in some instances
with large-scale prefabrication
and the use of private enterprise,
The pioneers of the work are
E. F. Marshall and Sons, and
to their credit stands the bulk of
the houses built during the tenure
of the scheme. In 1948 they
completed 324 permanent and
67 temporary houses to relieve
urgent shortages, and they had
uncompleted or contracted for
with the Government 1676 under
way at June, 1948.
They have large - scale
machinery, and long experience
has reduced their methods to a
fine art. Their building gangs are
permanent and well trained, at
least as to the substantial
nucleus, and it is astonishing to
see the rapidity and thorough-
ness with which they get through
the work as compared with the
manner in which it is dallied
with on socialised jobs in other
States.
There is an air of powerful
driving-force about every pro-
ject. The material is assembled
in quantity on the site, that for
each house being piled separately
as it arrives so that the workers
from the beginning have in front
of them the enticement of wait-
ing labor and material, which is
both an incentive and an assur-
ance of permanent work on a
large scale. Employment con-
ditions are model, and there is
little industrial trouble, since
housing in growing Adelaide,
with its widening industrial im-
portance, is a first priority with
the unions, and labor relation-
ships with the Playford Govern-
ment are remarkably good. The
whole trust plan is as, smooth-
working as it can be.
A Co-operative Plan
The Government scheme is
not the only one operating in
Adelaide which merits repro-
duction in other States. There
is also working there, still on a
small scale but expanding
rapidly, a self - help project
which is developing a remark-
able vogue —and no wonder,
since it is claimed that under it
homes are being pjit up at about
£7O a square as against the £3OO
which some home-builders have
to pay in and around Sydney.
This was started by a muni-
cipal employee who put up a 16-
square house for himself at a
cost of £550 with second-hand
material, the publicity which he
obtained through the Press lead-
ing to the formation of a build-
ing club which was initiated in
October, 1945, at a meeting
attended by 350 people. The ob-
jective of the club is to help
members to build their own
homes by co-operative effort.
The present members include a
leaven of skilled tradesmen who
teach the rest, who may be any-
thing from radio mechanics to
printers. The honorary secretary
is a bread-carter. Although
building had been done up to
last year worth nearly £200,000,
there was not a single member
of the bricklayers’ union on the
job until the last month or two.
The club, which now has 400
members, is well organised in
sections—labor, plans and the
various departments of building.
Each section has a group-leader
who is responsible for super-
vision and instruction. Members
provide labor on a pool system.
No member may take advantage
of club facilities until he has
given 40 hours of labor. When
he builds, the club hires him its
brickmaking machine, founda-i
tion planks, theodolite and what-
ever other equipment he needs
at a nominal charge. He as-
sembles his own material. The
members then roll up their
sleeves and get to work. When
the job is complete the newt
owner must give the club 16
hours’ work a month on other
homes.
Normally the practice is for
an intending home-owner to
work for some time in a group
to become familiar with build-
ing procedure before he begins
to put up his own house, which
usually calls for about 1600
hours of labor. As the member
gets an allowance against future
labor commitments for what he
has done previously the more he
works on the building of his own
home the less his future liability
to the dub.
It seems to be a scheme which
might become national. There
is more hope in it than in social-
istic methods, and it has a
national advantage in that it adds
to the technical capacity of
every person involved in it. It
seems particularly suitable for
application in moderate-sized
country towns and in new
suburbs.
Always provided that material
can be found, which in some
places it can’t be.


&
*0
o*
t£
c©**
et
'iiu
\ Q
\ie d
ip©
S? 5
~K/
}'V|
SL**
vffKi
v -V 'i w
11
*<?
i»
CAPSTAN
THE BiPIBES EAVOIBED CIGARETTE
—_
?
i
m
u
m
%
w
EENBUT
HAND PUMP
KISMEI
e
jf * 9 Hit
What’s the value of a tyre ■ j. e — an d nia3 e
accurate, it’s worthless. If it « * nny of its cost,
to stay accurate —it’s worth ev f P j eV ery tun
That’s the Kismet for you com £ort-
. . . which means a properly bahi cea
able to ride in, safe and easy to or . purop ?
AND what price a Foot Pump ? try a Kism® 1,
Just ask your Garage Man to let y inflai tes a
See how easily its double-cylinder note ttie fine,
tyrel Then examine it closely • •
solid Sheffield workmanship. {or a
You’ll never grudge the 0 /m extra yea«
Kismet product. It comes back to you m
of real service.
ẁ
KISMET
TYKE GAUGE
MAg
fOOT
J
hast®
fOOT P®**
Made by William Turner (Kismet), Kid.,
Sheffield, England.
Representative in Australia, . „j c^or ; a .
Mr. E. G. Jones, 48-49 Hardware St., Melbourne, O- ,
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
HOSTILE FORMOSA.
If a report by a “Manchester
Guardian” correspondent was
dispatched from Keelung, as it s
labelled, there can’t be any
censor in Formosa, since the
correspondent depicts Chiang s
Nationalists as especially un-
popular there and the place alto-
gether as a soft snap for a Com-
munist assault.
No one, he reports, knows just
how much infiltration of Com-
munist agents and saboteurs
there has been already or to what
extent “fifth-column” activities
are organised. “But when, and
if, the Communists succeed in
establishing a beach-head the
Nationalists may be found so
honeycombed with dissension
and so lukewarm in respect of
further fighting that resistance
will soon collapse entirely.”
The natives of Formosa, the
report declares, are hostile in
principle ancl in tradition to all
Chinese, and always have been.
“They frankly preferred the Jap-
anese, if they must have over-
lords at all, and their feeling to-
day is something a good way
from friendship for America for
having returned Formosa to
Chinese hands. As on the
Chinese mainland, so here, too,
America is the most unpopular
of all Western countries.
¥ But, apart from all that, the
Nationalists, since their occupa-
tion of the island, have con-
ducted themselves in a fashion
calculated to alienate the For-
mosans more than ever, and to
turn their sympathies altogether
to Communist China, if they
ŵ
g n'£T ;
f l
China Disillusion.
When Britain was being urged
to “recognise” Communist
China, whether Uncle Sam felt
like doing so or not, a good deal
of the pressure was reported to
have been put on by big British
business interests in Shanghai
and elsewhere.
Now, reports London “Econo-
mist,” “it is becoming increas-
ingly clear that the hopes of the
more optimistic British mer-
chants there have been disap-
pointed. Many of the smaller
traders have been forced out of
business, and it seems that even
the doyens in Anglo-Chinese
trade are living on their capital
and on the profits yielded by
that part of their business which
is> not directly dependent upon
trade with China.”
As an example, it states that
in Shanghai firms are not
allowed to dismiss labor with-
out paying one year’s wages in
advance, though it is being found
almost impossible to sustain
—Dattas (U.S.A.) “Morning News.”
“COME DOWN AND BE LIBERATED!”
ẁ
Menzies Endorsed.
Having evidently considered
the greatly beneficial effect on
Australian export-import trade
of the first Menzies anti-Com-
munist action, London “Econo-
mist” has come up with a very
different opinion from its some-
what hasty earlier criticism of
Mr. Menzies’s declaration that
he intended to keep his election
promise to clamp down on the
foreign conspiracy.
Taking it that the invoking of
the Crimes Act (withdrawn as
soon as the Communist-blocked
cargoes were cleared) had
worked as well as it did partly
because Australian trade-union-
ists “have at last come to realise
the damage that the Communists
are doing to the movement,” it
praises the Prime Minister’s “re-
markable broadcast to all trade-
unionists on the eve of the en-
forcement of the Crimes Act,”
and adds:
“These [Communist] activities
in Australia are part of the
world-wide Communist attempt
to discredit the Labor movement
and to disrupt work at the ports ;
by his quick and effective action,
Mr. Menzies forced the Com-
munists back to a position from
which they will not easily be
able to recover. It is a nice
paradox that a Conservative-
minded Prime Minister should
be able to do so much more than
his Labor opponent for the
Labor cause.”
Singling out the Prime Minis-
ter’s ukase to the Communists —
that if they intended to fight the
Australian people, the people
would fight back—the “York-
shire Post’s” summing-up is that
“Firmness in dealing with a
threat to the nation’s well-being
has won a handsome reward in
Australia.” It further
merits: COlft-
“Strong action was ,>i ,
needed. The essential q ,S y
is not whether the AuS?
Communists were under dhm
orders from Moscow. Quite!!
f JT the^ uestion whether £
did or did not maintain co n
nections with the Kremlin or £
Commform, they were acting I
a way calculated to further
efforts of the Soviet leaders who
are seeking to injure the demo
cratrc Powers. Their ideological
servitude was as harmful as anv
more direct subordination And
m fact the part played by the
Communist trade - unions i n
France, or for the matter of that
by the Canadian Seamen’s
Union in connection (direct or
indirect) with the dock strikes
in Britain last summer, leaves
little doubt that one of the aims
of Communists in the trade-
union movement is to cripple in-
dustrial progress in the coun-
tries which it would be in the
Russian interest to see crippled.”
Secretaries’ Procession.
U.S. Secretaries of State come
and go at a rate which may ex-
plain some of the apparent un-
certainty in U.S. foreign policy.
Truman, a staff writer of N. Y.
“Herald Tribune” points out, has
had four of them already in the
five years he has been in the
White House; —
“The first, Stettinius, he in-
herited. The other three, Byrn»s,
Marshall and Acheson, have
been his own choice, and few
would deny that in each case his
standard has been high. But all
his Secretaries of State have run
into difficulties, and always the
crux of the difficulty has been in
the relation between the White
House and the State Department.
The difficulty has turned on the
fundamental fact that in the
American Government—particu-
larly in an era of crisis—foreign
relations can be directed only by
the President himself from the
White House.
“Yet Mr. Truman, though
deeply concerned about the con-
sequences of foreign policy, has
had no taste for and little in-
terest in the actual conduct ot
foreign affairs,”
“Losing the Cold War.
In a series of reports from
Germany, a staff correspondent
of N. Y. “Herald Tribune has
insisted that things are going fax


Warm
Winter
Underwear
(K. - i|
V \ • i • I V V
Sa*'-
mm
* \
.. f
■ : - 4 ■'■■ V ;
■
!■*
i / %1!
s ■ , ' i
lll**
iiiiliiii
s ■
’
V:
by SmedSey's England
Smedley’s gives you the protection and warmth of all wool underwear. The under-
shirts have button fronts and are fully fashioned.
Sizes: 36 38 40 42 44
40/6 44/- 47/6 51/- 54/-6 .
Underpants are full length and fully fashioned.
Sizes: 34 36 38 40 42 44
46/6 48/6 51/6 55/- 58/6 62/*
by Morley
Made of pure, fine Australian wool. Winterweight undershirts have button fronts
and short sleeves. Sizes: 36in. to 44in. chest 25/-. Full length underpants
in sizes 34in. to 44in. waist..... .25/6. Please give chest and waist measurements
when ordering by mail.
aggtg
wKmmm
wm t
mm
mm
mt
W..
RAINCOATS FROM ENGLAND
Made in England and designed to stand up to
the English winter, these coats give you real
protection. Cut in Raglan style from olive
shot cotton gabardine in a finely loomed fabric,
these weather coats can be snugly buttoned to
the neck. Lined throughout with fine cotton
check. L ...................... .£B/8/- £B/13/6.
DINNER SUITS
These double breasted dinner suits are made
from finest pure wool Barathea and finished
with heavy corded silk. Styled with authority,
they are suitable for all occasions. £l9/15/6.
ENGLISH FELT SLIPPERS
Cosy winter slippers in fawn - Sizes 5-11:
Alberts.... .18/-. Zipp Boots 24/-. Buckle
Boots 22/-. Please state size when ordering
by mail.
PEAPES PTY. LTD.
NEXT WYNYARD STATION, 285 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Hunter Street, Sydney)
from well there from the West’s
point of view
While Washington is distracted
with piffling matters, he says, “it
is probably hardly worth men-
tioning that we are losing the
cold war here in Germany. Yet
this is the central fact.”
The danger, he adds, is not
—Minneapolis (U.S.A.) “Tribune."
“WHAT DO WE DO NEXT, ZIG OR ZAG ?”
ẅ
Stracheyisms.
Recalled by London “Daily
express” in the recent discussion
on Britain’s Socialist Minister
tor War Strachey, the following
views earlier expressed by him
at least make his later expressed
attitude to Communism a whale
°t a somersault, and the refer-
ences to Socialism, coming from
a Socialist, remain very interest-
ing;—
. Mn Strachey wrote in 1932
l n tne Coming Struggle for
ower: “The coming of Com-
ntunism can alone render our
Problems soluble.”
He said in The Theory and
J r actice of Socialism in 1936:
work for the
abhshment of Socialism as a
c essa,ry transition stage on the
road to Communism.”
He declared in 1938: “Like
fcocttlMte. I believe that the
int soc iety evolves in time
the Communist society.”
Min- ! S declaimed by the War
sinrp 1Ster s defend ers that he has
Quit g0t P ver aJ l that and is now
l'‘ e a changed man. Whether
irnnrp 1Ca j S ’ in Particular, are
seem $Sed by this testimony
see ms open to doubt.
Britain’s Prime Need.
viet U.S.
more r P Bntam ’ judging by the
is that S P° nsi We Press comment,
Uiomenf 1 S 8reatest nee d of the
In its a S a stron S Government.
“EcorS Am , erican notes, London
U S AH 1St • re P° rts tha t the
some of til niStration feels that
in the “o ij advantages gained
while waiHntT r, u are being lost
up t? n S t° r Britain to make
the A^ md - It declares that
talks « i mer ican economic
on h fh be 8“ &P-
°n the British dollar
gap, on sterling balances, on
stockpiling, overseas investment
and so on, are said to have
reached the point where the
British Government must make
unpleasant decisions:
“Such decisions will be diffi-
cult, if not impossible, for a
Labor Government which dare
w
Television v. Cinema.
B.B.C. research (as reported
by London “Daily Telegraph”)
appeared to prove that, in
Britain, possession of television-
sets reduced cinema attendances
(i.e., among those having sets)
by only 33i per cent., which is
low compared with American
experience.
Moreover, according to the
B.B.C. examination, “as the
novelty wore off, old habits re-
asserted themselves, bringing-
attendance back to normal.”
In America, investigators,
after interviewing 400 families,
have asserted that television has
reduced adult attendance at
cinemas by 72 per cent, and
children’s by 46 per cent. Those
who had had sets more than
two years went to the films 5.8
times a month before purchase
and only 1.5 times now. Their
children averaged 6.1 visits be-
fore and three now.
Not only cinemas, either. The
U.S. investigators found that “all
types of reading and attendances
at sporting events were being
adversely affected by television
in America.”
Soviet Living Costs.
Referring to the “joyous
official acclamations with which
the Soviet Government an-
nounced in March reduced prices
in the necessaries of life ; an ex-
ample to the capitalist world,”
a London “News Chronicle”
writer declares he has seen a
British Note to Moscow on ex-
change rates which somewhat
discounts the claims.
The Note, he reports, stated
that the price of white bread in
the Soviet Union is six times as
high as in Britain; sugar 20
times as high; potatoes nearly
nine times as high ; eggs more
than 16 times as high ; butter 20
times as high; and tea 30 times
as high.
Not only those things, either.
“These disparities,” the Note is
quoted as having pointed out,
“which apply generally to the
ŵ
Dragnet Digest.
With Love from Korea. —A batch
of North Korean “intelligentsia,”
including eight writers, three poets,
three archaeologists, two musicians,
seven actors, an unspecified number
of actresses and a ballerina, put their
picturesque signatures to an open
letter to the United Nations Korean
Commission, ticking off that solemn
body’s membership seriatim. Aus-
tralia gets it scone-hot: “The das-
tardly slave Australia which is run-
ning all the rough errands, kneeling
before the United States monopolists,
leaving the bosom of the bankrupt
British gentleman.”
* * * *
Soviet-German Partnership.—Lead-
ing “Saturday Evening Post” corres-
pondent Demaree Bess, who has long
made a special study of both German
and Soviet affairs, has reported on
“a growing impression that Moscow
is sidetracking its plan for a German
jCommunistic dictatorship.” The line
now favored is “an old-fashioned
nationalist alliance —the same Soviet
leaders who have made two previously
mutually profitable deals with Ger-
many are laying the groundwork for
a third deal.” ■>.
* * * *
J. Bull Aloft. —When it came to
the pinch in the last war, J. Bull had
the right planes ready for the job,
and according to recent British Press
articles on defence he is just about
as ready now. For the R.A.F., says
the “Economist,” a most difficult
period is nearing an end. After the
war, it records, the British Air Staff
took the bold decision to re-equip
its first-line fighter formations with
jer aircraft, facing the risk that there
might be a renewal of war before
this re-equipment was completed.
“The fighter formations of the R.A.F.
are now as good as, and possibly
better than, those of any other air
force, and within' the next two or
three years jet fighters and medium
bombers will be in general service.”
♦ * * *
German Recovery. —Declaring that
“Germany is staging a remarkable
post-war recovery,” the writer of a
letter featured in “Manchester
Guardian” asserts that the new Ger-
many “is being rebuilt with truly
Teutonic skill and vigor. Industry
is on the march again. In every
sphere of engineering, steel-making,
optics, etc., German firms are can-
vassing the world’s markets, ready
and eager to compete with their
enemies of yesterday.” The writer
further states that it is the Germans
of the middle and upper classes who
are “shouldering the historical task of
creating and leading” the remoulded
Germany.
* * * #
Flying Crockery. —In the flood of
comment and speculation during the
recent wave of flying-saucer reports,
London “Daily Mail” pointed out
one specially interesting fact; that
the outbreak of such reports fol-
lowed a curiously well-defined , pat-
tern. The “hysteria,” it says, first
broke out in July, 1947, and was
repeated in April, 1948; July, 1948;
April, 1949; July, 1949 —and again
in April, 1950.
# # ♦ *
Scientist-spy Aftermath. —A “York- v
shire Post” staff writer quotes a
reliable American source in London
to the effect that nothing more serious
has ever occurred to bedevil Anglo-
American relations than the confes-
sion of Dr. Fuchs, and that the
Fuchs case has reduced to negligible
proportions the degree of co-opera-
tion on atomic matters which can be
expected from the United States Con-
gress. The writer adds that American
officials visiting London to imple-
ment the clauses of the Atlantic Pact
have their hands tied as a result of
the case. The Americans, he implies,
regard the British counter-intelligence
part in it as a major blunder.
* * * *
Mistaken Air Strategy. —A contri-
buted “Manchester Guardian” article
on “Far East Politics and the New
Air Strategy” contending that the
balance may be shifting from Western
Europe, implies that more attention
should be paid to Australia as a
strategic centre: “The most highly-
developed aviation areas in the world
are North America and Europe.
Australians make greater use of air-
craft than Americans or Europeans,
but Australia is less developed strate-
gically because of the lower density
of air bases and because of the size
of its aircraft industry. The risk
seems to be that a large air potential
will be built up in the wrong places —■
that United States and European air
staffs may be looking in the wrong
direction.”
* * * »
Soviet “Liberators.” —No jaundiced
Western commenting, but Tito’s
leading publicist, Moshe Pijade, in
the Yugoslav Communist paper
“Borba”: “Radio Bucharest often
expresses deep gratitude to the Soviet
Army for liberating Rumania. It
must be admitted that gratitude is a
very nice quality. However, it is
another matter whether it is neces-
sary to give one’s freedom and inde-
pendence to the liberator out of
gratitude for being liberated, since
by this the ‘liberator’ is actually
being presented with the very thing
for which he is being thanked. It
thus appears that today several na-
tions are thanking the Soviet Union
for liberating them of their indepen-
dence.”


NOW! PROOF that brushing teeth right
after eating is the safe, effective way to
HELP STOP
TOOTH DECAY
with New! Improved!
Colgate Dental Cream
No Other Dentifrice Offers
Proof of These Results
Now dental science offers
proof that always using
Colgate Dental Cream right
after eating helps stop tooth
decay before it starts I
Continuous research hun-
dreds of case histories—makes
this the most important news
in dental history!
Tests were made In America
with 2 groups of college men
and women for over a year.
One group always brushed
their teeth with Colgate
Dental Cream right after eat-
ing. The other group fol
lowed their usual dental care.
The average of the group
using Colgate’s as directed
was a startling reduction in
number of cavities —far less
tooth decay! The other
group developed new
cavities at a much
w
New! Improved!
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
Now Better Than Everl
Mew delicious double minty
flavour! New sparkling snow-
white colour! New scientific
polishing action! New soap-
less penetrating foam For
effective daily dental care.
No claim is made that using
Colgate’s can stop all tooth
decay, or help cavities already
started. But brushing teeth
right after eating Is the
proved way to help stop tooth
decay with Colgate Dental
Cream.
higher rate.
Family Economy 3/«
©iant 2/-
Larqe 1/3
°
AMERICA’S
LAB6ESI'SELLING DENTAL CREAM
Always Use Colgate’s* to
Clean Your Breath While
You Clean Your Teeth—and
HELP STOP TOOTH DECAY!
* Right after eating
Dta/iM
w
the dependable service
each hat will give its
wearer . . . Pride in our
splendid customer rela-
tions over the past thirty-
seven years.
A 4
nr
kfipnrQft Wf
yuanmv
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Nightgowns are most unkind to
my figure.”
—-Correspondent in women’s paper.
Evidently not prepared to take
her troubles lying down.
4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, urgently, unfurnished flat
or room for young couple with child,
three being evicted.”
—Suburban paper.
Getting ready for a family
outing.
4* 4* 4*
“An American sociologist studying
New York homicide reports for three
years discovered that of 324 murders
of women 102 were committed by
husbands, 49 by lovers and suitors,
39 by fathers or close relatives and
the rest by stranglers.”
—Melbourne “Herald:”
Nothing could be stranger!
“Two men, bread, breakfast, share
room, mates, conveniences, private.”
—Melbourne “Age.”
They’re hoping for a slice of
luck.
4* 4* 4* „
“No one is born with funny feet.
— Women's paper.
Still, some women claim others
are a standing joke.
4* 4* 4*
“Why do so many Australians bolt
their food down?”
—Sydney “D.T.’
The answer will be the key to
digestive troubles.
“Nearly all corset manufacturers
agree that the majority of W9men
suffer from a complaint technically
termed ‘sway back.’ ” —“ New Idea.”
Sales, however, show ever-
improving figures.
Oh, Baby!
ẃ
D. H. E.
Enlightenment.
The cocky couldn’t understand
The city barmaid’s “magic.”
“Gripes !”
He muttered, “When she flicks
her hand *
The beer comes running up the
pipes !”
But when the power-fan over*
head
Startled him with a sudden
whirr— ,
“She’s cunning as a crow,” he
said,
“That windmill pumps it up
for her.”
BRIAN BUREAU.
Nothing But the Truth.
True to its proud slogan: “A
sensation a day, even if we have
to cook one up,” the “Daily
Moron” takes great pleasure in
sensationally announcing a series
of startling changes and
stupendous new features which,
it is confidently anticipated, will
materially assist in improving the
mental-age standard of readers
from the present 14 to 12. .
It would be quite impossible
for an organ of private opinion
such as the “Daily Moron” to
give an effect to the bigger and
better sensations which its
readers have a right to expect
(as value for the extra penny cost
of the paper we slipped over so
smoothly) without an adequate
supply of double and even
treble exclamation-marks. Re-
gardless of cost, we are import-
ing thousands of these, our
present stocks being wholly in-
“ G'day , Bert."
“G'day, Bill."
adequate to do justice to the
simultaneous breaking of such
sensations as, in addition to the
usual turf scandal and Holly-
wood divorce, the story of the
beautiful reformatory girl who
achieved overnight fame as a
“blues” singer, Mrs. Jessie
Street forgetting at a meeting to
praise life in Soviet Russia, the
500 - wreath funeral of a
gangster or other world-shaking
events.
Inspired by one of our own
syndicated strip-stories (which
we are able to get dirt-cheap and
thus save paying an Australian
artist) your favorite daily has de-
cided to appoint its own Girl
Crime Reporter. Her first bril-
liant assignment, which will ap-
pear next week, will thrillingly
tell how a famous Darlinghurst
Queen of the Underworld makes
all her own clothes. As a tribute
to the excitement this is expected
to evoke it will appear along-
side the funeral notices.
Our readers may or may not
have noticed that for several
weeks past the tripewriter of our
brilliant columnist, Orr Fulbohr,
has been out of action. He has,
in fact, been engaged in re-
search work among old files of
Australian and American humor
periodicals. Some of our readers
will again be regaled by splendid
samples of our columnist’s wit.
One of the best of the new jokes
he will tell will be that of the
sagacious dog which, warned by
his master against sleeping on
the bed, endeavored to allay
suspicion by blowing on that
part of the bed he had been
warming. Read his revivified
column and groan!
Our establishment —the first
among the daily Press! —of the
principle that any news item con-
cerning a prominent jockey,
whether he’s merely rubbed out
or is throwing a £4OO cham-
pagne party for his wife’s birth-
day, should be given screamer
headlines will be strengthened to
the extent of allotting such a
vital item the front page to it-
self, with appropriate pictures.
The relegation to inside pages of
political, foreign and industrial
news will, we believe, win the
approval of the great racing
public.
Our recognition of the ever-
growing importance of the ’teen-
ager—a recognition sharpened
by the inescapable fact that well-
paid flappers now constitute the
biggest buying group in the rag-
and cosmetic-shops, who are our
biggest advertisers —is respons-
ible for our decision to replace
four pages of general news with
articles of vital interest to the
giggling group.. These will in-
clude authoritative and thought-
ful reviews by Cyril Sweety, the
famous jazz-band leader, on the
latest hillbilly and jive-disk re-
leases, a complete coverage for
Crosby and Sinatra fans, keen
analyses of the latest dances in-
spired by depraved buck niggers,
and other items which embrace
the “Daily Moron’s” idea of
culture for the young mind,
A great new winter fireside
guessing competition which is
sure to intrigue readers will
break entirely new ground. As
they are aware, when an item
of news concerns a beautiful
society leader the accompanying
photo of her is dug up from our
photographic morgue and
dropped in. The competition
will involve guessing how long
ago—say, three, 12 or 27 years
ago—it was that the photo was
taken.
In addition to a greatly-
enlarged and more detailed turf
supplement specially devised t n
the illegal bettor, the “n ? r
Moron’s” new service
mugs who try to pick’em wUI in
elude a progressive chart wis J
w.U tell readers exactly "JS
their accumulated losses would
have been had they been cSt
enough to invest £1 each
on our extra-special for the da V
As well, prizes will be
those reader-punters who can
produce betting tickets sho W £
they ve lost £5O or over on h!
“D.M.’s” tips. n the
Our popular feature, “What
Readers Half-think,” will £
greatly enlarged, these letters
not being paid for. s ’
Watch out for these grand
NEW FEATURES ! ! !
And remember, you’ve no
need to order a copy. They’ll
still be available the day after
publication.
Bo.
Not Out of the Wood.
ẅ
BERT.


Matchless performance I
That's why more tons arehauled and
more people ride—the world over—on
Goodyear Tyres than on any other make!
A right tyre for enth job!
Here are the famous super-stamina Good-
year work tyres each one designed for the
best performance on a particular job.
c
LL
RIB
ALL SERVICE
HI-MILER
Hl-MILER
ALL-WEATHER
AIRWHEEL .
The actual over-the-road performance records
°f truck and bus operators, the world over.
Prove that Goodyear Truck and Bus Tyres are
the world's finest. They stand up better on
the hardest jobs give longest tyre life
owest cost per mile. Each Goodyear Hi-Miler
r uck and Bus Tyre is built from finest natural
rubber and tough, heat-resisting Rayon cord
-t° 9rve maximum performance. Get the
J'rorld s finest tyres Goodyear Hi-Milers
rom your Goodyear Dealer.
w
M
ŵ
TRUCK & BUS TYRES
Operating with
• j • it
§ # #
Jevlam
TRUCKS &
BUSES
Sold and Serviced by: —
LEYLAND MOTORS LIMITED
Head Office for Australia:
153-167 George Street, Hedfern, N.S.W.
Branches and Agents:
Brisbane Depot: 467-8 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Melbourne Depot: Cnr. Courtney and Yilliere
Sts., North Melbourne.
Hobart: H. O. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., 53-63
Bathurst St., Hobart.
Adelaide: Flinders Motors Limited, 62 Currie
St., Adelaide.
Perth: West End Motors Limited, 1056 Hay
St., Perth.
BRITISH ENGINEERING
AT ITS BEST . . .
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Until the last race, whereat the
heavens descended, “Sunny Queens-
land” ran true to its name for the
OTC St. Leger and Stradbroke
Handicap meeting at Eagle Farm on
Saturday. An overcast sky didn’t
nrevent Old Sol making his presence
well and truly felt—in every race a
majority of runners went out in a
lather of sweat. The Farm looked an
absolute picture; it would be good
to see the Q.T.C. achieve its aim of
making this delightful and most
modernly appointed course the Mecca
of winter racing in Australia.
One thing very noticeable to the
visitor at, Eagle Farm—Queensland
racegoers have a great loyalty for the
local horse; and they were able to
cheer themselves hoarse when their
own won both principal events on
Saturday. It was as a local horse,
rather than as simply a good horse,
regardless of origin, that Lucky Ring
was cheered home in the Stradbroke,
and there was no mistaking the note
of personal, almost possessive, pride
in the reception accorded Spellman as
he fairly and squarely donkey-licked
the crack southern three-year-old.
Playboy in the St. Leger.
The Eagle Farm record for 6 fur-
longs is I.lo|, but last year 1.12 was
good enough to win the' Stradbroke
for Lucky Ring, juld, on Saturday,
with the sting just taken out of the
track, the same time saw the same
very good sprinter take his second
Stradbroke. Last year the three-year-
old Lucky Ring carried 7.8; this time
he headed the weights with 8.7, con-
ceding Buzmark lib. In a thrilling
close finish, Lucky Ring won by a
head from the Melbourne visitor
Fordham, with the Sydney galloper
Buzmark a half-neck further back
third.^
Curiously emphasising the “All-
Australia” aspect of the Stradbroke
finish, a close fourth, and looking the
unlucky runner of the race, was the
grey Blue Lass, a regular nomad
among the horse tribe. Blue Lass
jumped out well; couldn’t, however,
stay with the early pace, was chopped
back to the rear, severely checked,
switched to the outside, and then,
going the long way home and con-
ceding a terrific start, finished like
the proverbial train to be a half-
length behind the winner on the post.
A comment heard as they went to
the post for the St. Leger was “Oh,
well, might as well wander down and
see the procession!” That about
summed up the view of most present
on the AJ.C. Derby and St. Leger
winner Playboy, starting at odds-on
and expected to dominate the two
other runners. Even so, many
plumped for the local representative
Spellman, recalling a recent run, when
he was left half-a-dozen lengths and
went on to win by about the same
margin. On Saturday Spellman gave
the impression that he could have
just about repeated that dose; as it
was, he beat Playboy by 2\ lengths,
with Blue Vest 10 lengths away.
Up till the home turn in the St.
Leger run Playboy and Blue Vest had
a great time switching and swapping
the lead, but all the way Spellman
was quietly sticking with them.
Entering the straight both other run-
ners appeared to be giving the favorite
a rather tougher time than had been
anticipated; Blue Vest was beaten off
and Playboy for a moment looked
the winner, until Spellman, as it
seemed, suddenly came to life and
won with an ease rather humiliating
to admirers of the favorite.
Persist, the Sydney mare from the
Kelso stable, was strongly fancied
by this page for the last Melbourne
Cup, but she found the Melbourne
spring air a trifle too much for her.
She gave a convincing taste of her real
quality, on Saturday in the £l5OO
w.f.a. P. J. O’Shea Stakes, for which
De.La Salle, a very hot favorite, eased
a bit when there was heavy backing
for Rio Fe. Persist Tan her best race
up to then by very easily accounting
for both of them, and for Hoyle,
who was also well backed.
* * * *
S.T.C. at Rosehill on Saturday:
mostly winter-class horses, but plenty
of nice racing and some specially
interesting performances; and anyone
who couldn’t pick a winner* should
give the game away.
Whatever else the afternoon’s
racing may have done, at least it
should have ensured the open coun-
tenance of young Selkrig being
rounded a bit more with an intake
of double helpings of roast turkey.
Still technically an apprentice, though
he has outridden any allowance
claim, he not only rode four winners,
but rode them particularly well. He
and young Killian, who landed two,
left little of the card of eight for the
old-and-bold to pick up, and between
them they demonstrated that good
horsemanship is still being well
taught and well practised.
Selkrig started off with the hat-
trick of the first three races —the
fillies’ and the other Two-year-old
Handicap and the Parramatta Mixed
Stakes, respectively on Goddess,
Poitiers and Beau Caste —and he
ended the day by getting Jenval
home in the Welter. Killian had
easier rides; Gayriol being far too
good for the Auburn Mixed field and
Freyberg too hot for the sprinters.
The track was nice and green, but
they all went down hoof-deep in it,
and every winner on the day had a
good pull in the weights. Hence, on
that account, form must be dis-
counted. By the same token, Red
Loch’s second to Gayriol had the
definite merit of his being the only
topweight to so much as fill a place.
Goddess adds to the evidence that
the bright-chestnut Ajax’s offspring
come in as many hues as did those
of Peter Pan. She’s a pure grey;
from imported Grey Port. The filly
also adds to the proof that they still
know how to turn ’em out up in
Newcastle. She is a strong and bold
galloper. The Genetout filly Gene
Loo put in a very good finish. Flag-
staff (a bright bit of naming; she’s
by Jolly Roger from Slide On) showed
good speed for half a mile.
Poitiers, a brown Agincourt colt,
had a fair pull in the weights, and
just nosed the rather unlucky Dashing
Romeo out of the money. In both
two-year-old events, despite the soft
look of the track, the topweights were
made hot favorites. The colt, Over-
sight, merely plodded around, fourth
all the way, but there was some
excuse for American Edition in the
fillies’ event.- She hadn’t raced since
last November; she had 9st. to lump
(giving the winner near a stone-and-
a-half) and she was last out of the
starting-gate by a number of lengths.
She galloped well making up the
hopeless start, but looked a bit dis-
tressed afterwards. The run would
improve her perhaps more than
would be the case with any other in
the field.
Beau China, the beaten favorite in
Beau Caste’s race, was a course
scratching from the longer and, one
would think, more suitable Auburn
Mixed. Maybe they were scared off,
as they well might have been, by
Gayriol at the weights. Beau China
looks as if he’d prove a pretty tough
customer to down at a middle dis-
tance. The three-year-old Gayriol
hails from N.Z., and his showing-up
of the form of Sydney moderates
should lead to an invasion from
across the Tasman. There are plenty
of races, especially these Mixed
Stakes, that any fairish galloper can
win.
For the first three races—Selkrig’s
—the books had things very juicily
their way; then the punters had a
turn. Adding insult to injury, their
first book-shaker—the Midstream
colt Golden Brew—won by the token
“ten lengths.” In every circumstance
it recalled another day at Rosehill
some years back, when J. Thompson
rode Versailles flat out all the way up
the straight with round about half a
furlong between him and the next.
Precisely what J. Waterhouse did on
Golden Brew. It’s very sad to
remember what handicappers subse-
quently did to Versailles.
W. Cook momentarily lifted the old
brigade of riders to the top by a
clever bit of riding to land the
promising handicapper Golden Bird a
nice winner from Kymac and Ash-
tray in the 10-furlongs main event.
A three-year-old Golden Sovereign
gelding, Golden Bird hasn’t been
racing very long, and is, in fact, still
learning his job, but he looks a very
likely bird indeed, Kymac, who was
also heavily backed, was only nar-
rowly beaten in a very hard finish.
A run worth following was Acquit-
tal’s in the Flying. The Hua colt found
giving Freyberg 101 b. was more than
he could manage, but he ran a fine
race. In the Welter this page’s choice,
Bold Archer, had backing, but dug
his toes in at the start and wouldn’t
budge.
* * * *
Star Port, who was ruling favorite
for the big Goodwood sprint in
South Australia, most painfully let
down his backers in advance when he
failed to even fill a place in a division
of a Suburban Handicap at Moonee
Valley. The stewards looked into the
run, and were satisfied. Star Port
apparently personally objected to
being crowded by another runner. He
finished much closer to the tail-end
than to the winner, the lightly-
weighted Ralton, who won easily
from Spoor and Chal.
Class made amends in the other
division of the Suburban; Williamson
getting Gay Saint up by a typical
bit of good riding to snatch victory
from Bernarlow and the heavily-
backed Zanni. Bernarlow looked the
one to keep in mind; there was plenty
of backing for him at tens, and he
had the race won everywhere except
just at the end.
Williamson quite mistimed another
finishing run; coming on the scene
too late on Black Don in the 10-
furlongs Annadale Handicap for
three-year-olds. He failed by a neck
to overhaul topweight Better Law,
ridden with judgment and abilify by
apprentice R. Lindsay.
One of the safest but not the
luckiest of fencers, Jung Bahadur was
well beaten by topweight Paroxena in
the Travancore Steeple, and the
stewards didn’t waste long over the
attempt by connections to get there
via protest. At the weights, the win-
ner put up an excellent performance.
Of the other events on the Valley
bill, the Tudor King gelding Star
Chamber and the Footmark gelding
Bay Mark won the divisions of the
Juvenile Maiden; Silken’s Last
downed hot favorite Evening Light
and Fast Orbit in the day’s distance
event, a 13-furlongs Trial; and the
three-year-old Caithness colt Mindrill
beat the four-year-olds Gay Donna
and Mile End in the mile Highweight.
* * * *
Sydney jockey J. Thompson wasn’t
long in justifying the view that he has
just the right sort of riding style to
do well in the Old Country. His
first ride in Ireland was a winner,
and ditto his first in England.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances): —
Two-year-old Maiden (fillies): Flag-
staff, 1; Gene Loo, 2; Putoko, 3.
Two-year-old Maiden (colts and
geldings): Daksha, 1; Dashing
Romeo, 2; Moriarty, 3. Three-and-
four-year-old Handicap: Chastise, 1;
Beau China, 2; Lady Kristine, 3.
Earlwood Mixed: Gayriol, 1; Red
Loch, 2; Susan Gay, 3. Flying:
Freyberg, 1; Dalston, 2; Hisign, 3.
Canterbury Park Handicap: Bold
Archer, 1; Tamasha, 2; Chief
Mohican, 3. Welter: Acquittal, 1;
Auburn River, 2; Tartan Girl, 3.
* * « *
The 130,000 who turned out to the
six V.F.L. games in Melbourne got
a mixed grill of football. There was
the colossal score of 29.7 kicked by
Essendon against South Melbourne
(10.16), the thrashing of Hawthorn
by the hitherto despised St. Kilda,
which downed Footscray a week
earlier and piled up 20.24-5.5 against
the Hawks, and the ding-dong go
between Melbourne and Richmond,
for Melbourne to win by a point,
10.13-10.12. Most of the crowd
picked the Carlton-North Melbourne
game and saw a hot, flying,
affair in which the forwards of both
sides paralysed the backs; Carlton
got there by 18.18 to 16.14. At Vic-
toria Park Collingwood quickly dis-
posed of Fitzroy, 16.11-9.11, and
down at Geelong the locals beat
Footscray, 18.17-13.14. What they
don’t know whether to believe or not
in Melbourne is whether St. Kilda’s
opening two wins means headaches
for the top teams; the Saints play
“Sowth” on Saturday and every foot-
ball eye will be on them.
* * * *
With three rounds of the Rugby
Union competition in Sydney over,'
the only teams to remain undefeated
are Gordon and JBasts. So far it
looks as if Gordon will once again
be hardest to beat. It seems that
captains and coaches of other clubs
have learnt nothing from last season’s
matches; they are once again work-
ing out moves to counter some
imaginary tactics which Gordon are
supposed to employ, whereas if they
were to look closely enough they
would see that Gordon is one of the
most naive teams in the competition;
that the secret of their success is
based, first and foremost, on fitness;
and, secondly, that they score most
of their tries from opponents’ mis-
takes.
A pity that that negative approach
to Rugby Union is proving so suc-
cessful; and it’s a poor outlook for
the game in Sydney that only one
team can guarantee the fitness of its
players when they go on the field.
Worse still, there’s not a team in
Sydney capable of playing 80 minutes
of football without making more than
the occasional mistake. Actually,
the majority playing first grade today
are lacking in the fundamentals of
catching, passing and straight run-
ning. Until they master these rudi-
ments they can forget about finer
moves and techniques of the game.
In Saturday’s games Gordon beat
Norths, Uni. beat Randwick, Easts
beat Wests, Drummoyne beat East-
wood and Manly beat Parramatta.
St. George had the bye.
♦ * * ♦
E. Green, G. O’Keefe, J. Crook,
L. Boyd (stroke), D. Ahrens (cox)—
it’s like the beginning of a roll-call
of some of the best old names of the
N.S.W. North Coast’s Tweed River.
Actually, it’s the boatload of beauty
(if young Ahrens doesn’t mind being
included or excluded) that proved too
good for the Victorian and Queens-
land lasses in the four-oar inter-State
championship, rowed on Saturday on
the open water of the Sydney Harbor
bay called Hen and Chickens. A nice
bit of rowing, too; they were giving
Victoria three boat-lengths’ start in
about the last 400 yards of the three-
quarter-mile pull, and they crossed the
line with a length to spare.
* * * *
When last heard of, Dave Sands
was staying up in the bandit-belt for
another engagement with “Boy”
Brooks, of the Philippines. At the
end of the third round in their first
encounter Brooks looked as if he’d
had enough for all South-East Asia
and North-East, too; but it was
claimed that the referee’s disqualify-
ing him for refusing to come out for
more of it was all a mistake. Which
sounds very ungrateful.


v -
i j's
TODAY
AS m GPIAT- '
GRANVrATHIK'S
pay/
Today swift freight
’planes replace the sail-
ing vessels of yesteryear
in the transport of stud
stock—just one of the
great changes in which
A.M.L.&F. has partici-
pated during 87 years’
service to the Man on
the Land.
AMLF
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE. LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
* Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches: N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Cowra,
. ree > Oarah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina, Cooma and Deniliquin.
Q land: Townsville, Oharleville, St. George, Ounnamulla, Dirranbandi,
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and
Pittsworth, Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, H. P. Veness & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Winton. Vic,: Wodonga, Korumburra.
FOR RHEUMATISM
ẁ
ẃ
ARTHRITIS. SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO. NEURALGIA,
RHEUMATIC GOUT and all
AILMENTS OF THE
RHEUMATIC GROUP
For 30 years Cluny
Mixture has proved a real
to sufferers from Rheuma 1 . a
ments everywhere. Cl ? ny f 8 rirm la
scientifically prescribed c f
which quickly strikes at th
the trouble, relieves the P
restores proper functioning J e
kidneys and tones up
nervous system. A y
TART TAKING CLUNY S ' u _
ẅ
w
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Fleece-rot.
“Bungaree”; The continuous
rain and humidity has resulted
in the highest incidence of
fleece-rot ever reported.
This trouble is caused by bac-
teria, which mingle with dust
and find their way down the
staple to the sheep’s skin. Hot,
moist conditions are ideal for
spreading, and, while the trouble
usually starts on the wither, it
may occur on other parts.
The wool forms a hard, sticky
mess, which usually turns bright
green in color, but may be
brown, violet or other shades.
Its worst feature is its smell,
which is highly attractive to flies
and makes affected sheep an
easy target for flystrike.
Shearing gives little relief, as
the trouble persists, and the
shorn sheep, usually hacked
about considerably in gouging
the cotted wool off, is still a fly
target. Furthermore, the short
wool removed and the short
fleece that will be there for next
shearing will not be worth much.
Dipping, either in a swim or
power-spray dip, is of little avail,
irrespective of the dipping fluid
used, unless at a considerable in-
crease in strength. Far too few
people realise that while nor-
mal dipping strength will kill
lice and ticks, no reliable dip-
manufacturer claims that it will
protect against flystrike. At 10
times normal dipping strength
and higher the newer D.D.T. and
gammexane insecticides will pro-
tect against flies, but arsenical
dips cannot be used with safety
at high concentrations.
Most successful treatment has
proved to be spraying with
D.D.T. or gammexane fluids.
The affected portions must be
thoroughly saturated as well as
the rest of the fleece over the
back. It can be done by putting
sheep through a power-spray dip
and using the top sprays only.
Another method is to spray sheep
in a race, wetting thoroughly the
wool from top of the head to the
tail in a wide strip. This will
gradually permeate the lower
parts of the fleece. Use a
powered pump or jetting plant
with multiple nozzle, but high
pressure is not necessary.
If you can start operations be-
fore the fly gets busy use a reli-
able D.D.T. water solution at a
strength of 2 p.c. p.p. isomer.
Remember, however, that
D.D.T. will not kill maggots. It
is cheaper than the gammexane
dips, but where sheep are
already being struck the latter
should be used. In addition to
spraying the back and saturat-
ing the shoulders and other por-
tions affected with fleece-rot,
each strike must be thoroughly
saturated. There is no need to
clip wool away. Better to load
it with fly- and maggot-destroy-
ing gammexane, but do it
thoroughly.
Feeding In-lamb Ewes.
“Big Billy”: Roseworthy
Agricultural College tests
showed that green-feed can be
done without by ewes in lamb
if abundant dry feed is avail-
able. Ewes on ration insufficient
to maintain body weight suffered
14 per cent, losses due to preg-
nancy toxaemia. However, the
group produced lambs only a
little lighter at birth , than ewes
well fed, and these lambs grew
satisfactorily when they and
their mothers were moved to
good pasture. Lambs heavy at
birth grew faster than their
lighter fellows.
No losses occurred in ewes
fed of cereal straw-chaff,
lilb. of wheat and 2oz, of lin-
seed-meal per day for six weeks
to three months before lambing.
They produced lambs of a birth
weight and growth weight about
equal to lambs born to ewes run
under satisfactory paddock con-
ditions.
Poultry and Pigs.
“Myrrhee”; For poultry, “A”
is the most important vitamin.
Poor sources are cereal pro-
ducts, meat-meal and dried skim
milk ; rich ones, green crops and
pasture, lucerne and vegetables;
fair sources, fresh carrots and
tomatoes.
If the ration is deficient in the
vitamin, egg-production decreases
and breeding quality of the eggs
suffers, resulting in slow-growing
stock which rarely do well. If
the usual vitamin “A” foods are
in short supply, mix a fish-liver
oil with the mash, one part of
oil to 100 parts of mash. Keep
the tin well sealed between use
to maintain vitamin potency of
the contents.
Meat-meal is a good substitute
for pigs when skim milk is short.
For weaners on to baconers feed
it at the rate of ilb. per pig
daily, in combination with grain
and pasture or green-feed or
lucerne chaff.
The same quantity is sufficient
for a dry sow, but one suckling
a litter will need as much as lib.
daily when not getting separated
milk. On this calcium-deficient
diet the animals will need a lick,
three parts of ground limestone
and one part of salt.
Hybrid Maize.
“E.W .1.”: Three organisa-
tions are working to supply
hybrid seed —a private one at
Armidale (N.S.W.) and N.S.W.
and Queensland Departments of
Agriculture,
With a hybrid called DS2B the
Armidale company was the first
to supply commercial seed in
Australia, which last year pro-
duced almost 4500 bushels of
seed, of which over 3000 bushels
was DS2B. All parties have sub-
stituted numbers for names.
This is in keeping with Ameri-
can practice, and has become
necessary because of the tre-
mendous number of types that
hybridising makes possible. A.
W. Bourne, Armidale manager,
pins his faith on the new DS
hybrids being released this year.
These are of similar type and
maturity to DS2B, but appear
better yielders. In a replicated
trial one of the new ones out-
yielded the standard variety,
Wellingrove, by 66 p.c., or 108
bushels, compared with 65
bushels from Wellingrove.
America estimates that hybrid
maize is putting an additional
“Might as well clean me chimney now I'm up ’ ere .”
thousand million dollars annually
into farmers’ pockets, more than
Australia’s total wool cheque for
last season. It would take more
than 1500 cargo-ships capable of
loading 8000 tons to remove the
surplus yields derived directly
from the use of hybrid seed.
With few exceptions Australian
growers have heeded the advice
not to save their own seed. As
hybrid vigor lasts for only one
generation, the yield of second-
generation seed normally drops
by 20 p.c.
Science and Words.
“C”: “Bungaree” (B.
12/4/’5O) opens up an important
subject. One cause of obscurant-
ism is that it is necessary for
researchers here to keep in touch
with those abroad by exchange
of reports. This applies every-
where, hence lengthy and ob-
scure compositions that bewilder
the landman.
Research reports are im-
portant, should be printed as
bulletins and given the widest
appropriate circulation, without
any pretence that they make
pppular reading. Agricultural
staffs are quite capable of in-
teresting the grazier, farmer,
orchardist and so on in matters
of technical importance. I quote
in proof the stock notes, orchard
notes and garden notes in the
Victorian department’s journal
for the current month (April). I
think it could be arranged for
the C.5.1.R.0. research reports
to be simplified for the landman,
and in this the States should be
glad to assist.
Measuring Method.
“Taswegian”: It is often
necessary to estimate the length
of material on a roll. Here is a
method which holds true for
any material, of any thickness,
whether the roll is wound tightly
or loosely: First measure from
one edge of the core on which
it is wound to the outside of the
roll furthest from that edge of
the core in inches.
Next count the number of
turns. Multiply the two to-
gether, then multiply the result
by 0.2618, The answer will give
the length on the roll in feet.
If you can’t handle decimals,
instead of multiplying by 0.2618
divide by four. This will give a
rough answer and will always be
less than the actual length.
An example: From edge of
core to furthest outside of roll,
lOin.; number of turns, 20;
10 x2O x 0.2618 is 52.36 ft.; or
roughly 10 x 20 divided byfour,
which is 50ft.
To Ring or Not to Ring.
“Oxo”: Queensland bee-
keepers and graziers are locking
horns over the ringbarking of
yellow-box. The Lands De-
partment has imposed a ban on
yellow-box ringbarking, which
suits the beekeepers, but
graziers, particularly in the
Stanthorpe border district, con-
tend that, the ban is keeping
quite a bit of country out of
production so far as wool is
concerned. The beekeepers
claim that yellow-box is the bees’
chief souroe of pollen, and it
was for this reason that its ring-
barking was banned.
In the central coastal district
the department has banned the
ringbarking of spotted-gum, but
graziers contend that the depart-
ment should allow landholders
to thin out useless timber of this
variety.
Linseed Returns High.
“He - Ne”: Many N.S.W.
farmers who grew linseed,
especially in the north-west, last
season made up to three times
as much, acre for acre, as-those
who grew wheat. Present price
of linseed is £7O a ton, which
equals about 355. a bushel; No.
13 pool wheat is not expected
to pay more than around 11s.
a bushel. Linseed prices are ex-
pected to hold, but wheat is
falling.
With linseed at 355. and wheat
at 11s., linseed-growers who had
good crops are receiving
times the return wheat L three
with average crops can
Here are some linseed r eturn
already paid (wheatmen S
wait up to two years f or fS
payments from No. 13
A Moree farmer, £32 an^cre-
?2°| 8 l£ n ’ r 8 14s - ; In verell
£26 165.; Gravesend, £3l
£3B ; Gunnedah, £32 and f?q d
Tamworth, £25, £27 and £3l!
Wanalda, £24; Bellata £23’
Pallamallawa, £37 15s.North
12s . ffirthramere,
£25 175.; Narrabn, £3B 5 Si
Dairyfarming.
“Rooster”; For the first time
a dairyfarm competition, con
ducted by Vic. Herd Improve-
ment Association in conjunction
with the Department of Agricul-
ture, enabled competitors to
compare different aspects of
dairyfarm. management. The
results, judging from the lengthy
report given by K. M. Sillcock
B.Agr.Sc., were highly encourag-
ing, and it was unanimously de-
cided to continue the competi-
tions.
The report stresses the fact
that feeding is equal in import-
ance to culling and breeding, and
that certain changes in produc-
tion, as related to economics,
have altered long-standing con-
ceptions of good management.
High costs of labor and farm
essentials now make it necessary
to keep a more detailed profit-
and-loss log. To show an annual
profit at all, the farmer must
run his business at a peak of
efficiency.
Champion was V. R. Nielsen,
of Tatura, with L. Senini runner-
up. Nielsen’s 39-acre property is
irrigated and entirely given to
dairyfarming. Allowance was
made by the judges for herd re-
placements and other dry stock
being carried on another pro-
perty, the benefits being charged
against the gross profits. In all
37 cows were milked during the
season ; average butterfat yield
3011 b. in 273 days, a “note-
worthy performance.” Some of
the reasons: Good pasture-man-
agement, with adequate top-
dressing, plus Bcwt. of lime per
acre every third year, the pas-
tures being kept succulent and
vigorous; accent was on con-
trolled grazing as distinct from
fixed rotation, thus avoiding the
rankness of growth which neces-
sitates topping ; pasture hay was
harvested with the mower set to
cut high, enabling the plants to
resume vigorous growth after-
wards. Nielsen harvested three
tons per acre.
Good layout of outbuildings,
with attention to compactness.
The dairy is compact and neat
the owner having made a clo
study of modern milking tech-
nique ; cleanliness and hygi
were faultless ; D.D.T. sprays; are
used to combat flies. For
supply a 10, OOOgal concrete tan^
is filled by gravity from the irr
gation channel; 51b of
added, resulting in the setth g


modern
SANITATION
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
THE
HVQEIA DISSOLVENATOR
{Complete self-contained sanitary
system .)
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING,
NO WATER -
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
w
ANY HANDYMAN CAN
INSTAL IT
Sewage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution, that
runs away into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet,
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: B. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd-., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
D “RWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
bales and Services.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
worn the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G * A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
Rupture
p u i.T ers ~ tr y.the new Roussel Free.
rrJ!f y° u to do hard work with
h “r. rort an d security. Definitely
fnr Us ’. a condition absolutely necessary
° r improvement.
c by doctors and thou-
® satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
rR P P tJall or send stamp for
a- 1 FREE details, self-measure-
*offer f A7 nn u” 3 da V s> f ree trial
obligation .
(Dept A PpHance Co.,
9 Martin Place. Sydney.
ŵ
Eyea and Eyelidc
HARos!* 1 ? EVERYWHERE
—i22§i& Co.Pty.Ltd.KlngSt.Sydi.ay
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
gridder discs*—-recommended for shearing-shed work*
m
■
f ■
Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
The
Z Weft *?'
Every Rolls lighter is precision built for
unfailing service. Fully automatic, with
built-in windguard, spare flint' recess.
Five year guarantee. Chrome, 39/6.
Distributed by WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED
if i/yhfs every time
ẁ
low cost Crude Oil operation
for MEDIUM power users!
m
ẃ
Here’s the pre-war famous Lanz “L”
Model bringing once more amazing
economy of crude oil operation in a
30 H.P. Tractor suitable for every
medium power need. With only 8
main moving parts in its simple,
single-cylinder, slow-moving engine,
30 H.P. LANZ cuts wear and main-
tenance to the barest minimum and
can actually save you as much as
£1,500 in 10 years on the running costs
of any other type of tractor. A saving
which more than refunds the capital
invested in your new Lanz Tractor.
There is a K.L. Bulldog or Lanz Crude
30, 40 & 45 H.P. MODELS
Oil Tractor in the range of 30, 40 and
45 h.p. models to ideally suit the
requirements of your farm—large or
small. See your local Bulldog Agent
Simplest, Strongest, Most Economical
Tractors —Ever Built I
ẅ
w
ŵ
BULLDOG
OutdeOU TRACTORS
State Distributors# . , 304
N.S.W., Dangar, Gedye * ttd. .M 4 Young^^y^^.
Spencer St.. Melb. SOUTH AUSTR . p erth . TASMANIA, K.L. Distributor. Pty. t-td.,
SulesPty. Ltd,, ... Brunsw.tb St.. Vo„.„ Br,.^
dav particles and other sus-
nded material; the water is
P e n ed pure to all taps at a
Assure of 401 b. per sq. inch.
P
Test on Rabbits.
w s ” • Experiments in Vic-
• mvxomatosis, a virus
toria to rabbits showed
though the disease can
Mtenrunat® rabbits in warrens
where’itis introduced it does not
read. The experiments suggest
that it would be of no practical
value on large holdings. Power
S the infection to spread in
°„idemic form is of first im-
nortance It was concluded that
fhe“res offered no advantage
under normal conditions over
S customary methods of rabbit
extermination.
provided that it wiped out
rabbits in a warren with less
labor than a fumigant, the virus
would be worth using. Further
experiments, designed to test it
as an alternative to fumigants,
will be made in northern Vic-
toria. The experiments are de-
signed to discover whether the
virus will give (a) complete ex-
termination, ( b ) a substantial re-
duction in numbers, or (c) by
comparative failure necessitate
reinfection or retreatment with
some other agent.
Site of the first experiment
has been selected because it pro-
vides numbers of well-established
warrens conveniently grouped in
open, level country—which sim-
plifies the problems of observa-
tion and checking. The experi-
ment will probably take two or
three months.
Sugar-gum Theory.
“H.J.S.”: This tree (B.
29/3/’5O) grows on the poorest
of country, and nature has pro-
vided a poison (hydrocyanic
acid) in the leaves to kill out
all competitors for space. My
observation at Griffith (N.S.W.),
where it is largely planted, shows
that no grass or trees will grow
near these gums, as the poison
has killed bacteria in the soil.
Most people have blamed the
roots, but the leaf-poison is the
cause, the fallen leaves affecting
the soil.
Much better to cultivate the
native trees, such as yellow-box
and red-gum. Sugar-gum are
now on the way out at Griffith.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sundowner”: To prevent
waste in feeding skim-milk to
pigs keep it in drums or tanks in
the form of curd. Place surplus
milk in a suitable container and
leave to set. When set suffi-
ciently for it to come away from
the side of the container clearly
when the hand is pressed on the
edge, it is ready to be broken.
Break by stirring, and curd will
sink to bottom; draw off all
whey. Add more skim-milk
daily and curd will sink of its
own accord. Containers should
be clean, and in addition to
being washed thoroughly before,
use, wash out with one per cent,
formalin solution, about a tea-
spoon to a gallon of water, then
rinse in clean cold water.
“8.J.L.”: To drive a nail in
an awkward position without hit-
ting your fingers, first force the
nail through a strip of card-
board Place the nail in position
by holding the other end of the
strip.
“Big Billy”: South Australian
Department of Agriculture gives
cautionary advice on the use of
penicillin in treatment of
mastitis. It urges at all times to
follow manufacturer’s instruc-
tions, apply early and, if a
supply of the drug is kept on
hand, to preserve it in a cool
place, preferably a refrigerator.
“Hux”: In coastal areas dogs
should be searched daily for
ticks. The female does the
damage. Pulling her out gives
her the chance to inject a final
dose of poison. It’s wiser to
use a razor-blade or sharp pair
of scissofs anci cut her off
quickly close to the skin. Dis-
covering the tick after paralysis
sets in in the hind-legs is usually
24 hours too late. First signs are
restlessness, hanging round to
be searched, then vomiting of
thick, yellow mucus, stertorous
breathing or continual coughing,
a sign that paralysis is already
affecting the throat muscles.
“C.A.A.”: Fat lost through
accidental spilling of milk may
affect the factory test. To reduce
‘loss stir all cans before they leave
the shed for pick-up truck. This
is particularly important with
milk that has been standing over-
night. Best stirrer is one with a
perforated disk. Move it with a
spiral motion downwards and
upwards.
“M.”: Victorian fruitgrowers
can obtain free fruit-packing
charts from their State Depart-
ment or personal instruction on
the best way to pack their fruit.
“Rooster”; When a heavy
milker comes to her flush there
are often small quantities of
blood ejected into the milk.
Traces can sometimes be seen in
the bowl of the separator. Mild
attacks usually clear up in a
short while, but in more serious
cases it is advisable to milk
three times daily, and gently
message the udder with olive oil
or camphorated oil after milk-
ing,
“Rooster”: During colder
months when waterholes are not
so frequently disturbed uni-
cellular algae prove troublesome
on the surface, and the result is
green scum. It is also found
frequently in stagnant well-
water, where minerals may aid
growth. Small quantities of
copper sulphate will eradicate
algae, without making the water
unfit for human or animal con-
sumption.
“8.J.L.”; If a large piece of
enamel is chipped from a bath
don’t let the exposed iron be-
come rusty. Get a tin of match-
ing lacquer and paint carefully
over the iron, keeping clear of
the enamel. Apply only thinly.
When thoroughly dry apply
another coat. Continue doing
this, and build up the lacquer
until it reaches the level of the
surrounding enamel.
“Myrr”: Vic. Department of
Agriculture has Orient oat-seed
available at 7s. per bushel f.o.r.
Walpeup. It is for sowing in
lower-rainfall districts for green-
feed. Orient oats will recover
and give a good yield of grain if
stock are taken off in early
spring. It’s not recommended
for hay because of . its short
straw, but under favorable con-
ditions will produce a good hay.


The name is.
(ITCall
The whiskij ls_
.
rgjsS
mm
■ , ;
sm
II
I*
3
Pi
■■
HfMllmHlMniHl!
T S
rk£
i n
7T
Meeting
an old friend
is always a
pleasurable
r . /
occasion .
“TOOL UP”
YOUR MACHINE SHOP WITH.
HIGH lEVELIILUMINATION
A
: :
11*
.
m
L?-*'
i
;; ■
I
■e-
'
■
REDUCE ERRORS AND LABOUR TURNOVER
WITH CLAUDE COLD CATHODE
FLUORESCENT
LIGHTING
NEON
DISPLAYS
PORCELAIN
ENAMEL
The link between good workmen
and good work is good lighting.
That is why Claude Cold Cathode
Fluorescent Lighting is as funda-
mental to production efficiency as
are good machine tools.
Claude Cold Cathode lighting
raises the general level of illumina-
tion for the most critical seeing
operations without increasing
shop temperatures, without pro-
ducing the deep shadows and glare,
and consequent eye-fatigue, nor-
mally associated with increasing
light intensity.
The all-round advantages that
accrue are tangible—reduction of
rejects, of accidents, labour turn-
over and costs, as well as lower
costs per lumen and increased
lamp life.
Call your nearest Claude office for
all the facts, and for details of the
Claude Rental Plan, which avoids
the necessity of incurring capital
expenditure.
CLAUDE
pON LIMITED
w
'SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE ■ PERTH • HOBART - LAUNCESTON
DivorceNotic^^,^-
T 0 i s^SHfc>jßi “p
Kings Cross New Sout as filed her
NOTICE that IRIS CUE 2 777 of
Petition for P^ rc d e ege^ o „ 2 without
on the ground of ldeae and upwards
cause or excuse for 8 y ma y enter
If you wish to dete , n h Divorce Office
an appearance *\ % tKet Sydney W
Supreme Court W " 196 0 and ean
30th day ci .
the 30th day of Petition «
jbtaln a copy of M^ eT BOO*"*
harge from ,f u iko pacific His 1
fflm, «»_ F *
vay, North -L Divorce-
iOUGHAN, Registrar m
knovm
vRRY BALFOUR, t) Fitzroy,
dress was 17 «f u communicate •
•ia, request k l ®*
IRPBTUAL TRUST er st rcet, S tor
IMITED), 33/9 " admin^
i
as
m
all kinds °f lE!
fishing tackle
heach anC *
For river, bea ao d
sea fishermen. b NES ...
French NYLON stTlokerS ’
hunting knlV ® S ;' t g ’for
requisites. Wr a vail'
fishing catalogue, now
able.
CRAIG & AITKEN
65 4 George St.,
phone M6261*
gydiiey.
began to quote from a succes-
sion of pencilled records: “ .. •
three going light • • • four dead
... more going light • . . hum-
bugged . •- • seven dead ... no
sleep . . . humbugged ... de-
stroyed old pen . . • other pens
bad . . . humbugged . . . ” He
made a gesture of finality. “You
see. All up there on the top
flat.”
“But those were fowls,” Seft
argued.
“The ground’s bad.”
“Yes, for poultry it might be.
But people aren’t poultry.”
OLD JOE HOFFEY mumbled
unhappily about lolly
scrambles and picnic meals off
the ground, then asked: “What
about tetanus? Doesn’t that
come out of the ground?”
“Did your hens have tetanus,
Mr. Hoffey?”
“I don’t know what they had,
but it killed them.”
Being met thus by ignorance
and evasion, Seft was exasper-
ated. “But, good heavens, Mr.
Hoffey!”
The old man’s woody lips
tightened. He bridled up at this
remonstrance, and, after a
moment’s indecision, took a
torch and motioned Seft to fol-
low him outside. “Come and
have a look at this, then.”
He led the way through
manuka scrub. Seft followed
carefully, though the light from
the torch was shining back at
his feet. “Watch for this bit of
an old tub sticking up here,” Joe
IHoffey cautioned at one spot,
and kicked out at hidden stumps
by way of warning as they
climbed. The track forked and
they turned off to an abandoned
fowlhouse. A dried cabbage,
hanging spider-wise • from the
roof, scraped Soft’s legs as they
went inside.
The shed was empty, but sour-
smelling still.
“Here,” Joe Hoffey said.
He was directing his torch at
an array of fowls’ legs, withered
and dusty, that were hung with
twine against the
back wall. They
covered the wall;
claws that made
a pattern of
thwarted energy
and were spread
so uselessly there.
The torch played
over them like a tragic search-
light.
Joe Hoffey said “I got rid of
all my fowls.”
“Bad luck,” was the only
comment Seft could make.
“Not that I’m complaining
about the price, mind you. The
pubs took most of these,
dressed.”
“Oh, well, Mr. Hoffey, that’s
the way it goes/’ Seft said, mov-
ing out.
The air there above the creek
was bitterly cold.
The old man gripped him sud-
denly by the arm. “I deserved to
lose those others.”
“Eh?”
“Yes, I deserved to lose them/'
Joe Hoffey said again, making jt
an emphatic confession. “I
thought fowls mattered more
than human beings.”
WHAT sort of answer was
there to talk like this?
Seft’s policy of tactful domina-
tion was well lost now. To hell
with the top flat. He’d heard
enough.
But with the torch shining full
in his face he was obliged to
listen —distastefully—to the rest
of the old man’s anxious confes-
sion :
“It was the baker’s girl that
set me to rights. She’d just lost
her father, you see, and when
she hears me carrying on about
a dead fowl she sools on to me
pretty wild. She stamps her
foot and says I care more about
my hens than I do about human
beings, and didn’t I think we
were better than the fowls of
the air. There was a lot more,
too, that she said, and she just
about throws the bread at me.
But I didn’t take much notice at
the time, her being a high-
spirited girl and just losing her
dad, like.”
As' he spoke he was combing
through the hanging legs,
fondling them with a hand as
gnarled and horny as themselves.
He had talked in a pleading
wondering tone, but now his
voice fell away wretchedly:
“But I find I’m writing in the
paper about my hens dying on
me and there’s people’s deaths
printed right alongside. I’d
known some them. That s
when I came to my senses. I
saw she was right and it was a
terrible thing to think poultry
mattered more than people.”
Seft was disgusted with him-
self for having drawn this em-
barrassing confidence. The old
man’s attitude disturbed him.
Easy enough to scoff at it and
call it nonsense—they did that
to his own bike-riding passion
but there was more to it than
that. And the answer, whatever
it was, took in more than t
himself and Joe Hoffey tSJ
been a fool to come out d
t Old Joe gave a laugh of relief
So you see how it i s . pim
there was poultry in the Q ™
Then there was the people com-’
mg for picnics. That’s a bittf
a difference, isn t it?”
“Well”
A s if there was a need to ee *
1 v reassurance before they w
the shed, the old man blurted
out, You see why I can’t let
people up here on the top fl at _
for this year, anyway? r
wouldn’t run fowls here. Even
lrn as silly
about that as they
say, you see i’ Ve
got to do it, don’t
you?” He scanned
Soft’s face, keenly
seeking an answer.
“Yes, I can see
that, Mr. Hoffev.”
Seft mumbled about a man
acting according to his own
conscience. That, he sup-
posed, was the real truth. “It
doesn’t matter about the top flat.
That was just a mere detail.”
They left the shed and, going
down the track, the old man was
again conscientious in indicating
snags.
“Everything’s set for Saturday,
then, Mr. Hoffey?”
“Just the same as last year’s
picnic.”
Just the same, Seft mused rue-
fully. The same interference,
the fowlyard talk, and the gate
to the top flat padlocked again.
“All right.”
“You’ll come in for a cup of
tea and a bit of a warm before
you go?” Joe Hoffey asked,
when they had reached the house.
Seft was among the trees,
dragging out his bike. “No,
thanks. I’d best be going.”
“I’ll see you on Saturday,
then?”
“Yes. Goodnight,, Mr.
Hoffey. v
“Goodnight to you,” Joe
Hoffey called from his doorway.
Seft was glad to get back on
his bike. Once out on the main
road he pedalled fiercely. What
could he tell the picnic com-
mittee now? He’d be crazy to
try to explain another man s
conscience. Feelings were the
very devil. Everybody knowing
what they would do if they were
somebody else, yet nobody ever
really knowing enough. People
certainly weren’t poultry. Not
by a hell of a long way.
Reasoning, thus as he pushed
along, he seemed to have been
on the road for hours before he
came to the hall beside
bridge. It was dark and empY-
The choir had gone home. The
road home was longer y
His legs ached and his
frozen numb. Next y
body else , could organs h . s
brewery picnic , he Q
turn.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOiy 4
oSUIXIVAtt
}
BRV»
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
. Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFF.ICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPI
OPERATORS
•TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVER#
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
ẁ
BLOTCHY
SKIN
marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Outicura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cnticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
L of the famous trio- Cuticura
la Ointment, Soap and
Talcum Powder.
533
ẃ
ẅ
w
R.
O.
r:
Rid your bloodstream of
K 1 ® 8 . and enjoy a NEW
KIIS Dof health ! Headaches,
Kneumatism, Nervousness,
depression and other com-
mon ailments vanish. A
, daily dose of R-U.R.
~£ I r ,' ejr your system and
it clear. Buy a 2/-
Packet of “ready-to-take”
tvvt! .4- from y°ur chemist
TSS AY - “Take R. U. R.
AND RIGHT YOU ARE.”
*cn
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £10,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
WBmßHßmllliilMiMiii«■«■■«■»
-.-■/ ;|||J|| |
em
■I
m
■PI
■=HP*
I H I
ii
SxW
\\
|r ;*2stf
1^
.
m
99
ŵ
SHIRTS
VD
THE BRAND WITH A PEDIGREE
ẁ
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
rrmies of magazines or books
•Sf details about the old horse-
glTghnllock-teams and the great
3 "nsnort work carried out by them
rSSraT-'.estem N.S.W. from
mO-1900.— 4819.
Tn huv copy of The Bushman s
iS byH. a. Lindsay. 4818.
of World War I poem wnt-
tenW°by an Australian soldier begin-
"'sLe day we’ll finish on the Rhine
?h® job that we’ve set out to^do.^
Tn set in touch with descendants
nf Alex Trotter, Sydney racehorse-
owner of horses Mickey Free and
Whitefoot.— 4823. _
Words and music of the song
“Road to the Isles.”—4824.
To buy copy, in good order, of
The Gadfly by E. L. Voynich.—4825.
To buy copy of At the Mercy of
Allah by Hilaire Belloc and [Bengal
Lancer by Yeats Brown.—4826.
To buy for country child a sleeping
doll, pre-war quality.—4820.
To buy copy of The Little Green
Road to Fairyland by Ida Rentoul
Outhwaite and The Manual of the
Holy Catholic Church by James J.
McGovern. —4821.
English collector of cigarette-cards
will exchange English cards for Aus-
trafian issues. (Reply direct to
W. J. M. Guyton, 5 Birchwood-road,
West Byfleet, Surrey, England.)
Words of verse “My Cobber Bill”
beginning: »
Two swimming flies were making a bid
To reach the mess-tin side.
-4828.
Does Anybody Know?
Author of the phrase: “Our
liberty depends on the freedom of
the Press, and that cannot be limited
without being 105t.”—4827.
Meaning of Kallateenee, N.S.W.
North Coast aboriginal place-name.—
4829.
Information Sought.
What arrangements are made
between neighboring unfenced stations
in Qld . and N.T. when one of the
owners wants to muster his own
wandering stock?
On unfenced cattle-properties in far
western Queensland and the Northern
Territory the mustering and separa-
tion of wandering stock are done in a
series of musters. On these proper-
ties cattle have their individual beat,
based on waterholes, and usually stick
to that unless forced to migrate by
drought or by thunderstorms in the
neighborhood. When a station in-
tends to muster on its boundaries it
gives notice to neighboring properties,
who usually send a small party of
stockmen to attend the muster, and
thes® are responsible for cutting out
their own cattle and driving them
back to their own property. There
is .no regular system attached to this,
but it is usually done as a matter of
mutual convenience. .
* * * *
What ingredients are required to
make one gallon priming paint? Is
it an advantage to mix the red lead
to a paste with water before adding
the oil? When is boiled oil used
instead of raw linseed?
The mixing of red lead with water
was used when red lead settled in
the tins and set hard. This practice
has long been discontinued with the
introduction of non-setting red lead.
Both boiled and raw linseed oil are
used in the manufacture of priming
paints, according to their uses. For
metal priming, boiled oil or a mixture
of boiled oil and raw oil are used,
but for wood priming, whgn penetra-
tion is important, raw oil is the main
oil used. To Igal. linseed oil mix
20-251 b. red lead for metal priming.
Add 15-201 b. red lead for wood
priming. It is much better, however,
to use a prepared red lead primer,
which is properly milled, than to mix
one’s own primer.
* * * *
How is damper made while on the
track in the bush ?
No utensil is used. Flour and
water are mixed to a soft dough and
placed in the hot ashes after the fire
has burned clear and clean. Hot
ashes are drawn over the loaf so that
it is cooked on top. Baking-powder
should be used, or self-raising flour,
but a very good loaf can be made
with plain flour. Only experience will
enable you to make satisfactory bread
in this manner. The damper should
be eaten as soon as cooked, as it
becomes very heavy when cold and
stale.
* * * *
(1) What is “ivory wood” used
for? (2) Price per 100 super, feet?
(3) Who would buy the wood in
Sydney?
(1) Printers’ mallets, engineers and
architects’ scales, slide-rules, engrav-
ing blocks, chessmen, shuttles, air-
filter blocks, wood screws, orange
sticks and sawdust for electro-piatexs.
(2) £ls per 100 super, feet* kiln dried,
select quality. (3) Manufacturers of
these types of articles.
* * * *
Some biographical details concern-
ing John Howe, who discovered
Patrick Plains [N.S.W?) in 1819?
John Howe arrived on the Coro-
mandel in 1802 and settled at Windsor
(N.S.W.). In 1809 he advertised in
the Sydney “Gazette” that he carried
on the business of Andrew Thompson
at the Green Hills (Windsor). Howe
married his second wife, Jane Ken-
nedy, on May 13, 1811. He was
appointed chief constable of Windsor
and the district of the Hawkesbury
in May, 1812. Howe built a bridge
over South Creek at Windsor in 1813,
and it was named after him by
Governor Macquarie. A news item
in 1817 informed the public that
John Howe had built anew punt,
which was working across the
Hawkesbury at Windsor. In 1828
he owned 1740 acres of land, and his
family numbered nine in that year.
In 1819 he led an expedition from
the Hawkesbury which succeeded in
reaching the Hunter River, and in
1820 he led a second expedition. The
property at Windsor was advertised
for sale in 1836, and it seems he had
left, or was about to leave, Windsor.
His death occurred at Raworth Cot-
tage, Morpeth, on December 19, 1852.
He was buried in the Church of
England Cemetery, Morpeth.
Brief Answers.
J.P.Q.: Depends on whether con-
tract was one of employment or
sharefarming. If the occupation was
necessary to the performance of em-
ployee’s services he would only be a
licensee, and could be ejected in an
action for ejectment. A sharefarmer
may occupy land as a tenant or as a
licensee. Remedies depend on original
agreement, but if area is over two
acres sharefarmer gets benefit of
Agricultural Holdings Act, 1941
K. 8.: (1) Do not know of any. (2)
On £30,000. (3) Yes J.S.: Suggest
you write to the Registrar, Probate
Division, Supreme Court of Scotland,
Edinburgh H.W.: Land will have
to be surveyed and council’s approval
obtained to subdivision. Land will
have to be transferred to son. Get in
touch with Legal Service Bureau, 117
Pitt-street, Sydney. As your son is a
soldier they may be able to help you
at a nominal cost... .R.J.W.: Facts
stated do not afford any ground for
eviction....E.H.J.: (1) Only 5 p.c. of
a retiring allowance would be subject
to income tax. (2) If retirement
kes tk ? date expira-
tion of leave, the full amount paid
, respect of such leave would be
subject to income tax. If, however,
retirement takes effect immediately }
and payment in lieu of long-service
leave is made in consequence of such
retirement, only 5 p.c. of such pay-
?£ n «7 ls sub i e ? t t 0 incorne tax
J.T.W.: No gift duty payable unless
total value of house and land exceeds
£2OOO. If it does then duty is pay-
able at rate of 3 p.c.... .S.M.:
Mother Carey,” or “Cary,” is an
Anglicisation, in sailors’ use, of Mater
Cara, an epithet of the Virgin Mary,
regarded as a protector of sailors.
“Mother Carey’s chicken” is one of
any several species of small petrels,
especially the stormy petrel K.C.:
Scorfield’s cartoon “The Yanks Are
Going” appeared in The Bulletin,
November 1, 1944... J.C.W.: Write
A. E. Smith Pty., Ltd., 9 Hunter-
street, Sydney... .H.K.8.: Miller’s
Sporting Annual and Athletic Record,
obtainable from J. J. Miller Printing
Cos., 217 Russell-street, Melbourne
C.S.: Write Official War Historian,
Department of Defence, Canberra,
A.C.T H.M.A.: Information con-
cerning the history of Q’land Workers’
Compensation, also an explanation
of the provisions of the Qld. Workers’
Compensation Acts and the benefits
provided for injured workers and
their dependants, is obtainable in
booklet form from the State Govern-
ment Insurance Office, Adelaide- and
Edward-streets, Brisbane.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
name and address must appear on the
No Habi i it y undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted:
and n 0 MS. w ill be returned unless
stamps accompany, should bt
addressed to the Editor.
P.M.: Sorry, but our readers don’t
believe in fairies H.M.: About
twenty years ago they stopped using
that pattern for racing stories
E.F.G.: We consider the husband
had an open-and-shut case against
the cop who dug up his potato-patch
in search of his wife, who had left
him C.8.A.: Too much talk
D.G.: Your “Wills” met our won’ts.
M.M.S.: True, true; little boys
sometimes say they’d rather not go
to the picnic if they’re going to be
pushed about like that; but it’s only
a part of the hard life of little boys;
they get over it; they go to the
picnic; whereas you leave off at that,
as though you had come to the end
of a tragedy H.S.: Thirty years
old, and twenty-nine years too old.
....R.McL.: “W 1 Turn-tu
turned down P. At least V
have given a fictio hobo ;■ m.V.
and £lo—rhaving done «6 ad I by
stealth, let Us help you nut osh
to find it fame A.i-.D.: A-Vaic
“just missed” again, only more so.
.... Bellerive: Pedal away:
“It was the Chinaman
who stealthily stole the papers from
the dead man’s pocket”—we never
let them do that sort of thing here.
G.S.: Pleased with the scenery
and the entry of a radio-announcer;
but the sentiment, the story, not our
kind W.W.M.: Anyway, he’s dead.
... .E.V.C.: If you do not under-
stand painting thoroughly, you should
not write stories about painters—the
Sydney “Herald” critic paints, and look
at him! M.R.: How we like short-
story writers is with their feet on the
ground, not hareing-off to Mars....
L.S.: Too slight... .C.A.M.: Not
getting any better, is it?....H.E.:
Doodlepop N.E.: From the first
glance we guessed that “Winnie
Come Home” would be about a dog,
and we thought we’d see if she could
find her way back to you.
PLUGGER BILL MARTIN, FORMER
CHAMPION CYCLIST.
ŵ


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Tourist Trade?
The North Queensland tourist season
is almost upon us again, and with it the
perennial oratory by local dignitaries ex-
tolling the wealth and prosperity brought
to the north by tourists.
Consider the case of Psmith, from Mel-
bourne, whose pockets are bulging with
£ s. d. which he intends to spend on a
holiday in the beautiful north. First
he must have transport, and, not wishing
to punish himself for his sins, he avoids
the railway, and hands oyer quite a few
of his notes for a plane- or boat-ticket.
Now, which airlines or shipping com-
panies have their headquarters and share-
holders in the north? Exactly! So that’s
one large slice of tourist profit that the
north will never see.
Arriving in the colorful north Psmith
books in at one of the leading hostelries.
These, of course, are southern-owned,
so another quota of quids is homeward
bound.
What, then, remains in the district?
Precious little, and it doesn’t benefit the
district as a whole. A few gaudy “curios”
and a car-fare or two account for the
shillings the tourist will leave in the
north.
What about the overseas visitor, with
his precious dollars? What have we to
offer the American, for example? True,
the Cairns-Innisfail district, in particular,
has some very attractive scenery ; but can
it compare with the Rocky Mountains,
the lakes and rivers of Canada, the Ever-
glades, the tropic beauties of the West
Indies and Latin America? Have we the
same historical associations, equal com-
fort and catering facilities?
The fact is we cannot offer the Ameri-
can tourist anything which he cannot
surpass much closer to his homeland.
Even that old standby the Barrier Reef
is unique only for its tremendous length,
and that is not readily apparent to the
tourist. As for its beauties,- they are
equalled in the sea-gardens and grottoes
of a thousand coral atolls throughout
the South Seas, We can flood the U.S.
with propaganda designed to lure the
Americans to our shores, but if they
come they are going to be disappointed,
and it’s bad enough being disappointed
at home without travelling half across
the world to experience that melancholy
emotion. And if there’s anything more
vocal than an American who believes he’s
been swindled I don’t want to hear it.
To be of any real value American
tourists would have to come in their
thousands. They haven’t, and they won’t.
The true wealth of North Queensland
will never be brought by the “tourist
trade.” It is already here in sugar, in
cattle, in mineral and industrial potential.
In those things lie wealth and prosperity,
not for a few, but for all who are willing
to work and to look ahead. There lies
the honest and honorable future of North
Queensland, not in a parasitic tourist
“trade.”—P. A. (Q.).
Melbourne Trams
I am no tram-lover myself, but “X.S.’s”
tirade (B. 19/4/’5O) gets us nowhere.
“Stuck in the middle of the* road,” one
thing the tram can’t do is disorganise
traffic. What “X.S.” really means is that
the tram, by reason of the no-passing-on-
the-right rule, organises the traffic a bit
too much. The safety zones are by no
means misnamed. They are something
Melbourne motorists really have learned
to respect, and while you’re there you
are safe. To get to the tram you wait
or the green light and stroll across to
the safety zone. Hardly a matter of life
and death.
Of course the trams are overcrowded,
but why blame them for the city’s
growth? Admitted, too, that the majority
of citizens have never known a comfort-
able ride to and from work, but will a bus
with half the carrying-capacity of a tram
alter that for the better? Trams run
almost head-to-tail during the peaks, to
the limit of safety, and if more could be
put on the tracks they would be. No
fleet of oil or petrol buses could compete
in smooth and precise control with the
trams, for the reason that the bus driver
hasn t got anything like the same degree
of command over his vehicle as has the
driver of the electric job.
To say that half the potential revenue
from trams is never collected is nonsense.
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
About eight per cent, would be the maxi-
mum.
As for speed, “X.S.” should remember
that the rats of traffic-flow through tram-
less London and New York is slower
than it is through Melbourne. It’s a
matter of density, not trams.
By experience, the tram is faster than
the bus in the city ; in the suburbs, where
trams and buses naturally don’t run
parallel, comparison is more difficult, but
they seem to be about even.
But the main point that seems to be
missed by “X.S.” and other would-be
tram-scrappers—the point that the former
Tramways Chief H. H. Bell wearily re-
peated for years—is simply that trams
cost half as much to run as buses. They
run on cheap Australian brown coal, and
buses run on expensive imported oil.
The Tramways buses run at a heavy
perennial loss, and the acute discomfort
of riding in a crowded tram is trans-
cended by the misery of travel in that
famous institution the overloaded Bourke-
street bus.
For shifting crowds, the tram is the
only vehicle to compare with, that marvel
of modern transport the electric train,
and to talk airily of scrapping one of the
most efficient, safe and reliable transport
systems in Australia in favor of fleets of
oil-driven buses as we now know them is
to talk nonsense.—W. A. E, (Vic.).
Vaccination
The Senior Medical Officer of the
Commonwealth Health Service in W.A.,
Dr. G. A. Murray, has advised all Fre-
mantle lumpers to be vaccinated against
smallpox. The union executive has taken
the matter seriously and has added its
‘Not quite the same thing , Brooks — there's no stage-door."
advice to the doctor’s warning. So far
so good. Now the Director-general of
Health has authorised the medical officer
to vaccinate all members of the union at
Is. a head.
Why the shilling? It’s obviously a
nominal fee, and presumably no member
will begrudge it, or miss it. But why not
make the service free? The difference
between something that’s free and some-
thing that’s nearly free is infinite.
It looks as though a Commonwealth
department is missing an opportunity to
gain a lot of goodwill for practically
nothing,— Kelmscott (W.A.).
Communist Strength
Apart from providing Communists and
their ecclesiastical friend with publicity,
the Australian “Peace” Congress in Mel-
bourne also demonstrated the power of
the Communist party in Australia.
That 10,000 supporters were able
to muster in the southern capital to cheer
the “Red” Dean is a startling revelation
of the strength and organisation of Soviet
Russia’s potential fifth-column in this
country. The Corns could have chosen
no better way of demonstrating to
security authorities the work ahead of
them.
But not only their numbers were im-
pressive. The collection of £2OOO in a
tarpaulin muster for the Dean’s “ex-
penses” will make officials of other
organisations green with envy. If it were
suggested to the secretary of ary other
political organisation that he could collect
that much in a few minutes by taking the
hat! round at a conference he’d think his
leg was being pulled.
It’s a pity that the Federal Government
did not give its promised anti-Communist
legislation a higher priority. Had it done
so the course of the congress
might have been very different.
As it was the news of the mass
gathering appeared in newspapers all over
the world, and the Dean’s propaganda
statements were liberally used by local
news-sheets. - . . :.
That the statements were untrue goes
without saying; sdme of them were
laughably so. It \Vas probably appro-
priate that Moscow chose the time of the
locals’ “Peace” Congress to shoot down
an unarmed American aircraft over the
Baltic, Even more appropriate and
ironical was the presence on the plane
that brought the Dean to Sydney of a
wounded Britisher from Malaya, a victim
of Communist “peace” tactics.
Those things, however, did not seem to
perturb Dean Johnson, who blithely told
newspaper reporters that Australia should
do away with the White Australia policy,
and that the terrorists in Malaya were ‘
really sincere patriots. — Dick Turpin
(N.S.W.).
Air Transport and the R.A.A.F.
Ten years ago civil flying in Australia
was adolescent, regular airlines were
few, services sketchy and the machines
available were not capable of carrying
appreciable loads. For the year ended
June, 1941, civil aircraft in Australia flew
7,941,898 miles ; by 1948 the yearly mile-
age had increased to 35,717,364. In 1941
there were 235 civil aircraft registered ;
in 1948 the number was 750, and the in-
crease was not only in numbers, but also
in size, safety and cargo capacity.
With regard to aircrews, figures for
1941 and 1948 show 203 and 1238
licensed commercial pilots, a huge in-
crease.
* The scope for air-route expansion is
not yet exhausted. There is room for new
airlines to New Zealand, Indonesia, South
Africa and the Far East. With the lifting
of petrol and tax restrictions these will
probably become realities. We have the
money and initiative, and the aircraft
are rapidly becoming available.
The one difficulty is the men. The huge
increase in commercial pilots over the
past few years applies equally to other
necessary staff such as meteorologists, air-
traffic-controllers, radio-operators, navi-
gators and engineers. To meet the post-
war expansion men came mainly from
the R.A.A.F. There they had received
their basic training and their experience,
so comprehensive, even in war-time, that
very little additional schooling was needed
to enable them to obtain their civil quali-
fications. But the pool is running dry
now, and existing airlines, plus the air-
traffic-control service, have absorbed prac-
tically all the ex-R.A.A.F. pilots who
wanted to keep flying.
To obtain an airline transport pilot
licence at least 1000 hours of flying ex-
perience are required for the second-class
ticket and 2000 hours for the first-class.
A theoretical and practical knowledge of
radio, navigation, meteorology and civil
regulations is also necessary. At a train-
ing-school or aero club flight-training
may be obtained at an approximate cost
of £2 an hour, so that the cost of flight-
training alone would be more than £2OOO.
How many parents could afford to pay
that?
Although airline companies are con-
sidering training their own future crews,
applicants would still need a considerable
number of flying hours before they could
hope to be considered. For the average
youth the cost would still be prohibitive.
Our future civil airmen should come
from the R.A.A.F, By accepting young
men on a short-service basis, say for
three years, the R.A.A.F. would be per-
forming a double service: providing the
r crews to keep Australian civil aviation
equal to any in the world and maintain-
ing a pool of trained airmen who would
be readily available in war.—Communica-
tions (Q.),
Prices Are Down!
Hobart housewives will n n a* i
a grateful sigh following th/r* 1 Utler
wealth Statistician's announcem™™?”'
retail prices under the “C” iSI, that
first quarter of 1950 showedl d/? 1 the
Hobart of .3 p.c. The wShte? c ' lne “
index for five towns in five
various increases, but in happy
there was an over-all decrease of ? " ,a
The uncomfortable facts am L p,c>
that percentage increases in Hobart^ 1 ’
1939 now amount to food 63 5 h
151.5 and miscellaneous 307 ’ iu
laneous presumably includes thT Ce '
portant item of footwear but lm ;
recently wanted a pair o/’CV&J
shoes I had to buy an imported brand at
75s Australian manufacturers appear fn
prefer rmported rubber (still dear ‘S
allegedly scarce) rather than leather W
the extra thickness and damp-resistin
needs of the southern population * 8
Statistics we never get are those tn
show how far the cost of living is jl
fluenced by controls, regulations! form
filling and other results of bureaucratic
administration. The time spent by pm
fessional and business men—down to
humblest shopkeeper~and others in
filling forms, calculating sales tax n av .
foll lax and other frustrations could be
better used in the production and selling
of needed goods.
§ut I suppose we should be grateful
for .3 per cent.— Lazarus (Tas.).
Foxes
Efforts of the Municipal Association of
Victoria to have its member-shires carry
out a scheme to pay a bonus of 7s. 6d, on
fox scalps (shires to be recouped ss. ?ld
by the Government) is getting a mixed
reception. Meanwhile the fox is increas-
ing its numbers in all districts.
Almost all councils agree on the
need for some such incentive, but dis-
agree on methods. The present scheme
breaks down in throwing the onus on the
shires to collect and handle the scalps.
Most claim they haven’t the necessary
staff, while some individual councillors
maintain that landholders themselves will
get rid of the fox, either by spotlight-
shooting or poisoning, should their sheep
and poultry losses be heavy enough.
The association plan is sound, but only
if it becomes compulsory. In this
western district of the State we have 50
per cent, of shires approving and the re-
mainder refusing to co-operate. The
latter are undoing the work of co-
operative municipalities, particularly
those with contiguous territory.
As with the control of all pests, this
would seem to be a national rather than
a State matter, but until it is so accepted
only an over-all compulsory scheme will
achieve the desired result in Victoria.—
Plain Australian (Vic.).
Home-ownership
Home ownership is not beyond the
average Australian wage-earner. It is
remarkable how many people. have the
means but believe that your own home
is a luxury reserved for the lucky an
the rich. People who live in rented homes
paying an average of 30s. to 355. a
don’t realise that in 10 years they ennc
some landlord by approximately ±• •
The same people howl about the g
cost of homes and look upon the ve
ous ones as scapegoats being taken i
builders. They neither exarmne
own position nor go into the actual
of what it takes. t i. e
Prices are high, certainly, but
downward trend, when and n
come, alleviate the position. Som
tain “We will hang off, save no . g
build when rockbottom comes.
will be the people who Wlll se 0 f
to outlay their meagre capital becau
the uncertainty of the times.
The home you can bufld today
not be in the class of a . H h L b ne w, corn-
mansion, but at least it will . filled
fortable and, if planned pr P cafl
with modern copveniences. p nnl ent'
be raised by loans through u p t 0
backed building societies g al f‘£ g of the
100 per cent, of the va f i an d is not
property. Buying a block
easy, but not impossible. on on iy
It is important that you trUS t
what you can really aftor * difficulty
to luck to find a way out generally
that may confront you. ot rea ch
conceded that building co s A
a peak for at least another ,n
355. a week £8(K) will hv i n that tinie ,
rent off a rented bom- borr owe d
Approximately £l4OO can sllTl ilar
with a weekly e
amount. Unless y -^ en ce can
ideas a comfortable read re
secured for that amo » be co ming
less the interest rates wiff o pre
the mortgage. Th.s ‘ s
debt hanging over
week’s rent,—Ebrius ( ■


TALKIES
"Kind Hearts and Coronets."
Connoisseurs of comedy might mark
this particular item at Sydney Embassy,
from Ealing Studios and directed by
Robert Hamer, as a particularly notable
vintage. It concerns a young man who,
like Richard HI, is faced with the prob-
lem of too many heirs between him and
what he wants —a dukedom in this case—
and who, with much the same cheerful
“Tut, were it further off, I’ll pluck it
down,” sets about the systematic extinc-
tion of the eight who stand in his way
by poison, shooting, bombing, drowning,
arson and by the remarkable feat of
shooting to earth with an arrow a balloon
in which one of them, a suffragette leader,
is distributing handbills over London.
His repertoire is limited to six only
because two of the obstacles manage to
pass out before he gets to them.
The main comedy of the film lies in
the beautifully polite detachment with
which it is told (by the murderer himself),
the equally polite and smooth wit which
accompanies the telling—“Her death, un-
fortunately, could not be avoided, but
she had already met a fate worse than
death over the weekend” —and the
delightful note of calmly-accomplished
nonsense on which the whole production
is sustained.
Dennis Price, who plays the young man
too far removed for his own liking from
the family estates, and who narrates the
story while waiting for his appointment
with the hangman, turns in easily his
most polished performance. His stretch
of light, aristocratic nonsense has to be
perfectly poised somewhere between and
above melodrama and ordinary clowning,
where even a slip of accent could send
it tumbling either way. He doesn’t slip ;
in fact, he seems almost to enjoy dancing
where others might even walk a little
carefully.
Another unusual performance comes
from Alec Guiness, who plays the eight
members of the d’Ascoyne family, Lady
Agatha among them, who stand in Mr.
Price’s way. Guiness’s marathon has a
touch of histrionic sausage-making which
calls up such comics as Leon Errol in
his “Mexican Spitfire” series, but he does
ma nage, in the brief time he has, to
establish each person as an individual
character while maintaining a cleverly-
varied pattern of family resemblances.
tW °- * ove a ® a^rs which finally lead
o Mr. Price’s undoing are provided by
oan Greenwood and Valerie Hobson,
iss Greenwood is surprisingly good as
pretty, spoiled little mistress, .black-'
tt !; er an< h eventually, avenger. Miss
bsou, with easy and graceful com-
pe nee, contrives to give the right slight
b .?* caricature to her portrayal of
drawing-room idealism and
Saving widowhood.
"Thelma Jordon."
The acting of two very competent
players, Barbara Stanwyck and Wendell
Corey, gives this Paramount film at
Sydney Prince Edward a peculiar sort
of half-life, so that, for considerable
stretches, it has quite a convincing atmos-
phere. That quality, however, is too
frequently interrupted when the tangled
story plunges into melodrama and when
the film-makers themselves bow to the
Hays office by making it very, very plain
to anyone over six years old that crime
does not pay.
The story takes up with an assistant
district-attorney enjoying a quiet jag in
his office at night to console hiniself for
being happily married to his wife but
unhappily married to her family. His
reflections are interrupted by a good-
looking young woman come to discuss
the matter of guards for the home of her
wealthy aunt, where prowlers have been
wriggling through the rose-bushes or
something. Circumstances lead the couple
into a furtive romance, which ends
abruptly when the old lady is murdered
and her emerald hardware stolen.
All the evidence points to the young
woman, she inheriting her aunt’s millions,
and the D.A. finds himself in the position
"And Cedric will keep order in my absence.”
of having to prosecute her. Believing her
innocent, he throws the case with a skill
that might have won it, only to find
afterwards that the young woman’s
original visit to the D.A.’s office to report
suspicious characters was part of a plan
by which she and a slightly less scrupu-
lous boy-friend had hoped to divert
suspicion from their intended burglary
of the place. Her affair with the D.A.
was something she hadn’t bargained for,
likewise her shooting of the old woman,
which was just one of those things that
happen when both people have a gun.
The D.A.’s understandably tangled emo-
tions are suddenly sorted out for him by
a clout on the back of the head from the
young woman’s boy-friend, and they both
clear off with their loot, leaving him cold
on the floor.
The story could have ended there, and
fairly creditably, because, despite its
melodrama. Miss Stanwyck and Corey
play their roles very well, and come
perilously close to resembling human
beings. Miss Stanwyck could have gone
off, unhappily, as she does, with her
unattractive accomplice and followed his
or her particular road to eventual retribu-
tion, and Corey could have returned to
his wife a sadder and wiser man, amply
rewarded for his duplicity.
That might have made a fairly natural
ending for a story which, if not exactly
credible, is at least played out fairly con-
vincingly. Instead, Miss Stanwyck has
to suffer a violent fit of conscience and
stub a lighted cigarette in her partner’s
face, so that he drives their car over a
cliff, killing himself and leaving her so
close to a corpse that it doesn’t matter.
She manages to breathe out a full con-
fession before passing in her chips, thus
leaving the D.A. holding the very
uncomfortable bag and proving most
definitely that crime doesn’t pay.
Miss Stanwyck’s brisk, competent
acting is generally easy to watch, and
Corey, with his vaguely haunted air
and worried eyes, fits his role very well.
Paul Kelly turns in a quietly convincing
performance as another representative of
the law, and Joan Tetzel looks and acts
the part of the helpless, bewildered wife.
"Prince of Foxes."
Orson Welles has been lately reported
as making a lightning excursion into “King
Lear,” and, by coincidence, the latest
film in which he figures includes a scene
which seems to have been borrowed from
the horrible blinding of Gloucester. The
film, 20th Century-Fox’s “Prince of
Foxes,” at Sydney Regent, has Tyrone
Power as an adventurer serving Cesare
Borgia, and who, after deserting that
gentleman, is captured, tortured and
dragged into the dining-hall to have his
eyes thumbed out for the entertainment
of the assembly, including Cesare Borgia
Welles, who sits munching his vitamins
and enjoying the performance immensely.
Despite the screams and howls of Mr.
Power, or the character he plays, the eyes
are not, of course, removed, the gentle-
man with the thumbs being an accom-
plice in disguise who neatly palms a
couple of grapes and passes them off to
the illustrious Cesare as evidence of the
vile jelly. Which, of course, is something
W.S. never thought of.
The film is one of the results of Holly-
wood’s migration to Italy, but, except for
a few magnificent interiors and exteriors,
it is difficult to see anything in it to
justify the cost of the passage. In the
main, it has to do with Mr. Power, as
one Orsini, a foxy gentleman with a flair
for painting, swordplay, lovemaking and
diplomatic skullduggery who gallivants
about Italy doing the groundwork for
Cesare’s wars, annexations, match-
makings, etc. Having arranged the match
between Lucrezia and the cannon-maker,
at the same time dodging assassination’
marriage and sundry other excitements,
Mr. Power is dispatched to white-ant
some more territory for his master. He
finds that this particular field is so well
and faithfully ruled by a benign old
democrat and his beautiful young wife
that their people are quite happy and
satisfied to remain as they are.
The object-lesson is not lost on Mr.
Power, whose own timbers are gradually
gnawed away by democratic white-ants
and by the beauty of the young wife, so
that when Gesare’s hordes eventually
descend on the place he finds himself
practically leading the democratic opposi-
tion. The battle, in which the old fellow
is killed, thus making his young wife
slightly more available, is a long and
tedious exchange of fireballs and
boiling oil, together with the rather futile
business of shoving ladders against the
castle wall and climbing nearly to the top
before being pushed over. Cesare wins
it, however, and his faithless minion is
hauled off for the abovementioned treat-
ment.
That, of course, couldn’t possibly end
the story, and Mr. Power,
with flashing blade, and love-
light in his eye, fights his way
in and out of a good deal
more trouble before he sees
the beginnings of Cesare’s fall
to perdition and weds the lady
—she, it goes without saying,
was not really married to her
deceased husband, the old
chap having explained just be-
fore his death that he had
only taken her into a kind of
protective custody when her
father died.
Mr. Power’s acting is much
the same as it ever was, and
the same applies to the per-
formance of Orson Welles —
a stretch of mannered posing
with the familiar glowers,
grimaces and laughter, Wanda
Hendrix never gets beyond the
limits of Hollywood, and
never remotely resembles the
Italian beauty she is supposed
to represent. Felix Aylmer,
who looks like stepping into
H. B. Warner’s shoes as the
screen’s favorite fatherly old
gentleman, walks through his part
apparently without worrying much about
it —what a descent from his Polonius!
and the only performance of any note
at all comes from Everett Sloane as a
mercurial character of such adventurous
disposition that he can’t stay on one side
or the other for more than 24 hours at a
stretch.
An old Marx Brothers item, “Duck
Soup,” revived at Sydney Prince Edward,
still has enough of the right ingredients
to produce almost as much uproar among
the addicts as the quartet produce on the
screen. Their familiar routines —the
scissors, the telephone, the “invadings”
and “surroundings”—are all there, with
the usual speed and industry that give
the impression of 20 of them instead of
four. Judged by this item, they haven’t
grown any more or less* amusing, which
is quite an achievement.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 67
1 Across.
(7)therine acted the grasshopper.
HP* is able to stumble. (7)
9-P a r e \ With s P ecta des. (3)
SUr)l e f bas one in the hair of
I]__ T n benevolent women. (11)
tremnL genuine? Then it’s a
cS of , re ?onance heard in
12-TV tr f pleu nsy. (8)
subtractPrf 1 ? en of the Apocalypse
■galloon. Vi 01 ” the Wecks in a
75/vf day-even though
(7) miles from Sydney.
■ drunken Ced . hazard for the
19—a sfen agrarian. (5)
■)a pSdin Wlt m tresses taken by
officer. (5)
22 ! 0W (U) disorderly and shal-
-23-j 1 church. I (3> nd ” character seen
before t C to P r °le in a Play
a, Western a, a . m ,. surrounded by
AMto** flower. (8)
for “
tlQ n with mn put , up an mnova-
TOhout applause. (3)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
29 Whirling editor kicking the
bucket. (7)
30 — Equipment for snaring the lowest
form of wit or packing berries.
(7)
Down.
1 — Tom is always the father of
Christopher X. (6)
2 —Duet for two miserable hounds
near Eden. (7, 3)
3 Cost of profundity? (5, 6)
4 The firm to approve a navigator
or, perhaps, an interior decorator
, if he’s good. (4)
5 —Born French. (3)
6 plant seen at Wynyard
and Flinders-street stations at
peak periods. (4)
7 Pops the fur that is just too
good to fail. (8)
10 —’E meant ’alf a score in an
apartment building, by the sound
of it. (8)
13 —Waistcoat precipitation ends such
neuroses. (5, 6)
15 —Glamorous dummies of Nash
City. (8)
15 —Three-way journey to paintings
having it to the east. (10)
18 —What part of “Macbeth” begins
with the cauldron scene swallowed
in order to impart movement to
anything. (8)
ẃ


haysheds aren’t
5W
IBS
w
any more..
i-.
5Z
Armco pre-fabricated steel haysheds are lifetime
units that provide trouble-free protection and
enhance property value. 30 ft. wide, they can be
provided in lengths of any multiple of 15 ft.
Owing to unprecedented demand and shortage of
material, buildings can be supplied as framework
only for forward delivery. Prices and delivery will
be advised on application.
7
C(j
ARMCO
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
PRES-STEEL BUILDINGS
ARMCO
Kembla Building, 58
319-325 Queen Street,
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD
i i luou r n ®
larqaret Street, Sydney • 422 Collins Street, Me
a j p I a 10
Brisbane • C. M. L. Building, 41 King William Street,
