

The Bulletin
Bulletin,” Vol. 71 —No. 3674
Wednesday, July 12, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE river facade of the Houses of
Parliament extends for a length of
940 feet and is embellished with the
statues and royal arms of British
sovereigns from William the Conqueror
to Queen Victoria. Over 900 years ago.
before the Norman Conquest had taken
place, a Royal Palace stood on the site
now occupied by the Houses of Parlia-
ment, The first palace was built by King
Canute the Dane, and this was rebuilt
by Edward the Confessor.
The first stone of the new Houses of
Parliament, as it exists today, was laid
in 1840, and building was completed 17
years later. It stands on a bed of con-
crete ten feet thick, covers an area of
eight acres and has 1100 apartments, two
miles of passages, a hundred stair cases
and cost over two million pounds to build.
The most prominent feature, shown in
the accompanying illustration, is the
Victoria Tower, which is 323 feet high
and is surmounted by a flagstaff from
which the Union Jack is flown when
Parliament is sitting. Among the many
historical documents stored in the Tower
are the original copies of all Acts of
Parliament, and here are kept, for one
year after a general election the ballot
papers used in the constituencies of
England and Wales.
The Clock Tower, which contains the
bell known the world over as “Big Ben,”
Is 320 feet high. Big Ben derives its
name from Sir Benjamin Hall, who was
First Commissioner of Works when it
was built. It weighs 13i tons and its
chimes were first broadcast on December
31, 1923. During the Second World
War the Houses of Parliament were the
targets for enemy bombers, and on the
morning of May 10, 1941, the Commons
Chamber of the House of Commons was
entirely destroyed by a bomb. The
foundation stone of the new Chamber
was laid in 1948, and the work of rebuild-
ing is rapidly nearing completion.
THE MOTHER OF PARLIAMENTS MAKES LONDON’S GREATEST VIEW
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


Learn
f
ofHOMF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit at
advertised in the Sydney "Bulletin,"
M'v Name
My Address .... .........
53.150 AGS
The Red Page
THE "CLOCHEMERLE" MAN.
Gabriel Chevallier occupies a unique
place in contemporary literature: he is
the only novelist whose books one looks
forward to with unalloyed delight. It is
a large compliment to pay him; but, so
far as the present reviewer is concerned,
it is true.
There are earnest novelists, learned
novelists, large documentary novelists,
grim novelists, satirical novelists and even
a few gay novelists. But there is no
one quite like Chevallier in his combina-
tion of assured literary excellence and
unfailing delight.
True, it is no use hoping for another
Clochemerle from him: for one is look-
ing, really, not for a novel as enchanting
as Clochemerle, but for the enchanted
state of mind in which one first read it.
Chevallier might be able to do it twice;
but the reader cannot twice be taken quite
so spontaneously, quite so gloriously by
surprise.
In point of fact, Chevallier has per-
formed his miracle three times since
Clochemerle first burst like sunlight on a
world given over to gloom and obscurity
—which two qualities are so often mis-
taken for a proof of mighty intellect.
Each in its own way Sainte Colline and
The Euffe Inheritance contained quite as
rich a wine as Clochemerle, and so does
Chevallier’s fourth book Mascarade
(Seeker and Warburg; Angus and
Robertson).
And though the miracle was the same
in quality each time it has always been
different in expression. There is no repe-
tition, none of the hapless attempts to do
precisely the same thing twice that Theo-
dore Powys, for example, fell into after
the masterpiece of Mr. Weston’s Good
Wine.
Sainte Colline broke clean away from
the rustic charm of Clochemerle to de-
scribe boys with a vividness recalling
Tom Sawyer and Saturdee and to describe
priests with the frankness of Trollope
and with a dramatic power Trollope
touched only in The Last Chronicle.
The Euffe Inheritance, more like
Clochemerle in its setting, brought up a
whole crop of new characters, including,
in the general’s widow, a military lady of
unexampled ferocity and vigor. Both
these novels darkened at the end into the
shadow of a war, but World War II evoked
in The Euffe Inheritance quite different
problems, comedies and tragedies from
World War I in Clochemerle.
In Mascarade Chevallier appears for
the first time as an exponent—and, in
two-or perhaps three of the four stories,
a master —of the long short-story; the
form perfected by Maupassant in “Ball
of Fat” and “Madame Tellier’s Estab-
lishment.”
Much of Chevallier’s appeal lies, of
course, in the fact that he is a French-
man and therefore “wicked.” An author
is “wicked” if he tells the truth about
sex; if he tells lies about it he is not
wicked.
Chevallier does tell the truth and he
is pricelessly wicked—nobody else could
have composed that telegram in Cloche-
merle ; nobody else could have invented
Mimi’s desperately patriotic appeal to
the soldiers in “One-way Street” in the
present volume; nobody else could have
described so superbly the rear view of
Th<£r6se as, scrubbing the floor in “The
Parrot,” she bends in majestic loneliness ;
nobody else could have contrived so
astonishingly the unmasking of Papa
Seringal and the kitchenmaid by Aunt Zoe
in the story called after her. Chevallier
has the rare capacity to astound the
reader into helpless laughter. For one
sparkling moment the whole universe
seems to be made of wicked delight.
English and American novelists do,
somehow, in spite of official censorship
and the unofficial prudery that came into
the Anglo-Saxon novel with Dickens,
often manage to tell the truth about
sex: sometimes farcically like Eric Link-
later, sometimes with elaborate naughti-
ness like the latterday James Branch
Cabell, sometimes with agony like D. H.
Lawrence, sometimes brutally like the
American realists. But censorship and
prudery have made the whole tribe self-
conscious and driven them, one way or
another, to exaggeration.
You have to go back to Fielding to
find natural and pleasant human relation-
ships treated as naturally, as pleasantly
and as gaily as Chevallier treats them.
Standing behind him, guaranteeing his
right to the laughter of honesty, are the
gaiety of Maupassant, the delicate realism
of Stendhal and the broad, ribald and
overwhelmingly earthy gusto of Rabelais.
Chevallier is the spirit of Rabelais, modi-
fied and polished to fit our own times.
And because he can treat sex naturally,
as an important—perhaps the central —
factor in human conduct but by no means
the only thing that engages our atten-
tion, Chevallier is not obliged, like so
many English and American writers who
take up his subject, to make sex his only
stock-in-trade. Two of the stories in
Mascarade are about murder; one is
about the corruption of France under
the Nazis; none is, centrally, about sex.
“The Buried Treasure”—the weakest of
the four because, though it is a fine em-
bodiment of Chevallier’s philosophy, there
is not enough scope for action in the
long, first-person monologue he employs
here—is about an old man who had built
his whole life on the assumption that he
had a fortune buried in his garden which,
actually, had been stolen shortly after
he first buried it ... the philosophy be-
hind it is that, even if the ideas that
sustain us through life are illusions, we
can still get along quite happily.
In construction and movement the two
murder stories are the best; and one does
not know which to admire most: the
sustained drama of “The Parrot,” where
the mild little man who has once done
a murder is led at once amusingly and
fatally along the path to the inevitable
repetition of his crime—how much more
accurate an observation of a homicidal
maniac than that of Dostoevsky’s Crime
and Punishment where it is supposed that
the maniac can “reform”—or the wickedly
ironical realism of “Aunt Zoe” in which,
once the family has got over the shock
of discovering that their scapegrace father
has killed the pious old tyrant in the
tempest aroused by the kitchenmaid,
everyone lives happily ever after on Aunt
Zoe’s money.
Probably the vote goes in the end to
“Aunt Zoe” because, even if Therfese
scrubbing the floor in “The Parrot” re-
mains an unforgettable joy, the portrait
of the brilliant, malicious small girl in
“Aunt Zoe” is as vivid as were the boys
in Sainte Colline —and that is saying
something.
The war story, “One-way Street,” does
not flow quite so easily as the two
murders, and the characters are not quite
so convincingly alive. At least in the
opening, where the writing is a little
■stilted, the central character of the fat
little wax-polish salesman seems more
symbolic than human: a lay-figure to
represent the French bourgeoisie who,
tempted by easy money, were corrupted
by the Nazis into becoming black-
marketeers and collaborators. Yet, when
he acquires a mistress because he “owes
it to his position,” and doesn’t know
quite what to do with her, and hankers
after his old companions, and is really
desperately unhappy with all his money,
the salesman does become human; and,
when at last he is shot by the Resistance,
this story shows more clearly than any
of the others the profoundly serious
quality of Chevallier’s gay art.
It is impossible, in the end, to say
whether one has been reading comedy
or tragedy. One has, in fact, been given
both: life itself: the whole of life as
seen in perfect balance-r-humorously and
tragically, sympathetically and clearly—
by a genuinely great artist
NIGHT SOWING.
0 gentle, gentle land
Where the green ear shall grow,
Now you are edged with light:
The moon has crisped the fallow.
The furrows run with night.
This is the season’s hour:
While couples are in bed,
1 sow the paddocks late,
Scatter like sparks the seed
And see the* dark ignite.
0 gentle- land, I sow
The heart’s living grain.
Stars draw their harrows over,
Dews send their melting rain;
1 meet you as a lover.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
A Norman Lindsay Novel.
Norman Lindsay’s Dust or Polish ?
(Angus and Robertson) is a lightly enter-
taining novel about a Sydney showgirl
who, bored with the public glamor and
backstage bickering of her career, takes
over a secondhand-furniture business
from the old woman with whom she
lodges and makes a success of it.
It has not the rich, Rabelaisian delight
of Norman Lindsay’s best novels, which
shows just as much in the children’s
classic The Magic Pudding as it does in
Saturdee, Half-way to Anywhere and
Red heap, but it is a clear, compact little
story in the vein of his popular light
novels, The Cautious Amorist and Age of
Consent.
Though they are not meant to be much
more than readable stories and exercises
in craftsmanship, it is part of the value
of these novels that they serve as a
vehicle for serious ideas. Thus through
the figure of a Dr. Grimsby, with whom
at the end of Dust or Polish ? the hard-
headed, disillusioned but still attractive
Rita settles down into a kind of unofficial
domesticity, Norman Lindsay is able to
attack the extremists in modern art, to
praise the paintings of Gruner (“a great
master of landscape”) and Lance Solo-
mon, and to express the fundamental
belief of his philosophy, which is that the
supernatural energy which moves and
sustains civilisation is manifested in the
creative arts:
He poured sherry into long-stemmed
Dutch glasses, saying, “It’s hard to say
the smashing of class-distinctions
and the mental communism of this age
have gone dn destroying the sense for
beauty, but certainly this is the ugliest and
the most brutal age the world has ever
seen. It hasn’t produced a single utility
that future collectors will preserve, if it is
ever succeeded by a future, which is
doubtful. However, I’m not pessimistic.
It the scientific sadist is allowed to blow
up the earth, it was obviously not worth
preserving. Personally, I don’t believe the
issue rests with those brutes at all. It
rests with, what power the higher con-
structive mind has to dominate them. And
in general, a restoration of values in life
and art. So you see, you really are doing
an important thing if you can persuade
people to give up gas-pipe chairs and buy
decent reproduction period stuff.”
With these general ideas about life and
art there is also in Dust or Polish? —
since this is its special subject—a good
deal of very interesting talk about old
furniture and the mysteries of connois-
seurship;
Dr. Grimsby ran a hand over the oval
table, saying, “Why, feel its patina for a
start. You know the difference between a
real piece of crepe-de-Chine and a piece of
common silk, don’t you? Well, there you
are. There’s that difference between a piece
of perfectly waxed wood and a french-
polished abomination. Whoever had this
table has treated it properly, waxing the
wood so that the grain is still visible. The
small inlay pattern is very delicately done,
and the carving is good, too. You’ll soon
learn the difference between good and bad
craftsmanship in the surface qualities of
joining, carving, and the proper treatment
of wood. But balance of design is another
thing. If a piece has all its proportions
right, you know it without being able to
explain precisely why. There must be a
definite canon .of proportions in every form,
whether it’s a chair or a human body, and
connoisseurship lies in being able to sense
that canon.”
The novel is set, chiefly, in Paddington.
Its principal inhabitants, apart from Rita
and her indolent girl-friend Sadie and the
two doctors with whom they fall in love,
are the drunken old harridan Mrs. Dibble,
who is Rita’s landlady and proprietress of
the furniture-shop which Rita takes over,
and Peter Bodfish, an eccentric and
bibulous craftsman who restores furniture
and drinks beer with equal skill and
delight.
These are an amusing pair of demons ;
and one likes, too, the ease with which
the novel moves about the too-rarely
frequented territory of Sydney—to a
theatre for some backstage life, to the
Domain to hear the spruikers, to Man-
o’-war Steps to watch the Harbor, to
Rose Bay for an auction, out to Coogee
and Manly for surfing, to a well-known
nightclub for dinner and dancing ... It
is not the territory in which Norman
Lindsay is most at home, but he walks
through it with practised ease and points
the way for other writers to follow.
Back to Hemingway.
After eighteen years, Ernest Heming-
way’s Death in the Afternoon (Cape),
given its fourth impression this year,
is still a wonderful twenty-chapter essay
on bullfighting; and if the reader who
studied it over and over again in 1932
or 1933 is a little mortified in his
enthusiasm in 1950, he is not as morti-
fied as the many bulls and bullfighters
whose ends are so powerfully reported
here, or the poor civilians and soldiers
who served as models for the grisly in-
terlude, the “Natural History of the
Dead.”
Yet, to the ageing ear, there is a flam-
boyance in this writing • a f« Q r
the rich American connoisseur ? at
covered death lying about totalh dls '
appreciated. almost unknown in p* UQ '
and has transported it, for clasvifi r ? pe ’
indexing, and display to
some heavily - endowed to
museum; and there is somethin! ‘° tk
brutality of its tone that seems???
w™dZli“- ingway himseif
tof'Sexcel,
was very brave/ but he laid hH Style >
on as.with a trowel. It was as thn br l Very
were constantly showing you the n' £h he
of hair on his chest, or the wav
he was built in his more p/vate n h ‘ Ch
I hat is not the function nf lateI ate par ts.
bullfighting, it should be a in
presence permits the lighter to w hose
acts he chooses to Smnt u P nE' m ail
by apprehension. It is not %n^fi? lperec *
club the public with. nielhmg to
„ nncourageous reader them •
somehmg of bad taste, somethin? ?
die slave-dealer, in Hemingway?L?
h y i!fi m ? assessments and portraits ?
bullfighters, and especially in his loud
denunciations of the cowardice ? ??
man and the stupidity of that. CoiL? 5
m writing as in fighting is na/ / 8 ,
thing to club the public with ” But S °iP e
the book first ca£e oSt. S C0U B “^»
,£ brU f hty w f re its main recommtnda
ton, it cut sharply through the butter
o. pacifist literature in which
appeared: it was a novelty to he*
courage pratsed, and death appreciate?'
Moreover, in considering bullfighting
an art- -a tragedy, he calls it—Hemuis
way has probably achieved the
practical basis for a theory of criticism
diat could be found today; to play grac?
fuliy for fifteen minutes with a bull bred
to k/il and then to run at it and thrust
a sword over its horns and into a hole
about the size of a shilling between the
Pdf 65 b° f ,?, ri B h t to the
hiiv, should try any man’s capacity to
its utmost, and thus it is a treatise
on style, applicable to any art
f iat tile book has most significance
iiie moment of truth” in bull-
hghtmg, when the sword goes in and the
man imperils himself moving his body
out and round the horns, is paralleled
m the crises of poetry, drama and music ;
ano as men. show themselves by their
actions in the bullring, so artists in other
holds betray themselves by their styles.
if is surprising to reread the book and
realise how much of what one accepts
now first came out of it; the phrase at
the end of the “Natural History”;
‘Madame, it is always a mistake to know
an author' -I aw time,, as with the simple
sayings of Confucius, has enriched that
observation!
The book is of the same format as its
first impression, with the same 60 full-
page illustrations and 83-page glossary,
though tbs paper doesn’t seem quite what
it used to be in our early bullfighting
days.
R. McC.
Reviewed Briefly.
Lay Her Among the Lilies: James
Hadley Chase (Hale). The author of No
Orchids for Miss Blandish is beginning
to strain the probabilities. It is a bright
idea to present his detective, Vic Malloy,
with a letter he forgot, unopened, in an
overcoat pocket a year before, from a
poor little rich girl, saying, “Come quick,
my sister’s being.blackmailed” ; but a little
too much to ask the reader to believe
that even an American city police chief
could be so completely in the pay of one
rich gambler, one sanatorium-proprietor
and one rich woman as to connive at
kidnapping, two or three murders and an
open parade of tommyguns by a gang of
murderous Italians. However, if you can
swallow this —and the genuine sucker for
detective stories will swallow anything—
it becomes a story not without ingenuity;
it has a really good, hair-raising scene in
a sanatorium ; the seduction begins with
considerable thoroughness on page 22;
and there is plenty of action,
* * * *
Murder At Our House: Carroll John
Daly (Museum Press). The main novelty
in this book is the butler-detective, who
tells the story in his commonplace,
pedestrian manner. When his roster
died he went with masters little
daughter to work for her guardian, an
unscrupulous millionaire. The millionaire
quarrels with his nephew-and-heir, wn
departs; a young lawyer recoin
engaged to the beautiful ward; the m
lionaire is murdered. Did his three aged
sisters do it? Did the beautiful •
Did the young lawyer, the return d
nephew, or the gardener, Schmia •
Several of them are knock ed-ofi
the butler dodders along to his solution,
and by the time he has opened the do
the visitor has forgotten why he
called.


d
IN ADVERTISING"
Horderns
a*
Sir
*C=S3
/
S'
Y-
m
$
.
Photo at left. 9 carat stone set Pendant and Earrings to match in presentation case. £5/16/-.
A.—Solid 18 carat white or yellow gold stone set Eternity Rings, at £6/10/-.
B.—Gent’s stainless steel Commander link Watch Band. Price, 12/-.
C. —Gent’s 9 carat gold, silver lined link Watch Band, Price, only 30/-.
D.—Gent’s 9 carat gold, silver lined link Watch Band. Price, 35 J-.
E. —Gent’s nickel chrome expanding link Watch Band. 21/-.
w
He suggest eye-catching accessories
F. —Sterling silver Key Chain with metal fittings. Price, 35/-.
G. Gold filled Snake Key Chain. Price, 35/-.
H. —Children’s 9 carat silver lined Gqlf Bangles. In all sizes, priced from 22/- to 25/-.
I. —Gold fdled Arm Bands, price, 25/-. Available in chrome, price, 8/11,
J. —Solid 9 carat stone set Cross on 9 carat silver lined chain. Priced at 40/-.
K-—9 carat silver lined small stone set Heart Pendant holds photo. Price, 21/6.
L.—9 carat silver lined Locket and Chain holds photo. Priced at 28/-.
M. —Double Heart and Arrow Locket
Brooch. 9 carat silver lined with
key and safety chain. Price, 36/-.
N. —Children’s 9ct. silver lined Curb
Bangles. In all sizes, from 22/- to 25/-.
O. —Solid 9ct. gold Nail and Horse
Shoe stone set Tie Pin. Price, 21/-.
Ladies’ 9 carat silver lined Curb
Bracelet, priced at 32/-.
Q-—Ladies’ 9 carat silver lined Link Watch Band, Priced at 18/6.
R-—Ladies’ Black Cordette Commander Band with stainless steel links. Priced at
Ladies’ 9 carat silver lined Commander Watch Band. Priced at 26/-.
• Ladies’ stainless steel Commander Link Watch Band. Price, 9/6.
U. British made chrome Cigarette Case, priced at 16/-.
v -—9 carat silver lined Sleeve Links, priced at only 24/-.
British made gold filled Cigarette Case, priced at £2/12/6.
X. Solid 9 carat gold back and front Collar Studs. 26/- pair.
M
■
O
%
*
■ ,- v:
2H
§P
*
P
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ JEWELLERY DEPARTMENT—GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. PHONE M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE TRAP
BY
NANCY
CATO
ALMOST opposite the lonely shack
on the road to The Point, the fish-
trap, built ingeniously of air-strip
mesh, its stout criss-cross wires
rusted to a warm orange by the sea,
stretched out into the shallow waters of
the bay—wind-rippled and turquoise-
blue in the Dry, smooth as silver satin in
the Wet.
Just now it was the Dry, and the curv-
ing beach of yellow sand shimmered and
almost smoked in the sun’s heat, con-
centrated by the blue burning-glass of
the sky. The tide was far out, leaving
dry the mud of the mangrove swamps to
beyond the point, exposing sandspits and
shoals where the soldier-crabs marched
and turned, and leaving shallow pools
about the far end of the fish-trap. The
long entrance-ways of the trap and the
two enclosures to which they led, the
further one almost a hundred yards from
the shoreline at high tide,
looked like a long jetty
abandoned by the sea.
There was nothing to
keep the fish in, but
once they entered the
shor eward openings
they were lost, their
obstinate urge to make
for deep water leading
them to press on, instead
of turning back before
the water went down
and it Was too late.
Over the soft coarse sand beyond the
reach of the tides, and the low sand-
hills covered with purple-flowered con-
volvulus, a roll of air-strip mesh had been
laid. Tracks turning from the road
showed that it was often used.
The sound of an engine, the rattling
of loose parts over the corrugated road,
and a cloud of bright red dust marked
the approach of a vehicle. Soon a khaki-
painted utility bounced over the sand-
hills to the beach. At the same moment
a woman’s figure appeared on the front
landing of the house, which had a flight
of wooden steps and, though perched on
twelve-foot-high stilts, only just cleared
the growth of rank grass and shrubs sur-
rounding it on three sides.
The utility drove on to the firm wet
sand. An Air Force man, casually dressed
in khaki shorts and an open tunic over
a bare chest, jumped down and entered
the first of the maze-like openings through
which the fish could not escape. He
came out with a shrug and a spreading
of the hands expressive of “no luck.”
From the outer enclosure he emerged with
the same gesture.
WHEN he came back the driver, a
young R.A.A.F. officer in a peaked
cap and buttoned tunic, leant with one
sun-browned forearm on the steering-
wheel, and pushed the cap on to the
back of his head. The two of them
turned and stared back at the shack. The
woman could be seen now moving about
underneath it. ’
“There hasn’t been a fish in the trap
since they came here, blast them!” said
the young officer, wiping with the back
of his hand at the sweat beading his upper
lip.
“We’ve never actually caught them at
it.”
“No, but her tracks are always on the
beach, leading down into the wet sand.
I reckon he sends the woman down be-
cause he thinks we’d be soft with her.”
It was still early, but they had met the
husband’s truck on the road to the town,
going hell-for-leather over the corruga-
tions to avoid their jarring. He left early
to work on the dam, and didn’t usually
return before dusk.
The young officer adjusted the dark
glasses on his sharp, square-cut nose. He
had weak eyes and the dark glasses
covered spectacles; he had an idea they
made him look like General MacArthur.
He hadn’t the General’s imposing
physique, but his stocky figure was solid-,
looking, his chin was square and bis
mouth straight.
He looked back again at the shack.
A white sheet was blowing out from the
line strung between the shack and the
palm-tree in front.
“I’m going to tackle her about it now,”
he said and turned the utility.
DUMPING over the sand-ridges he felt
heart begin to bump a little, too,
and silently cursed himself for a fool. He
had noticed the woman appreciatively,
of course—they all had—flaunting about
in her bright skirt, with her long dark
hair and slim brown legs. Once, driving
past to the deserted station on The Point,
he had glimpsed a white figure flitting
tor shelter, from the open shower under
the house. '
He left the utility on the road and
walked over the flattened grass, giving a
purposeful hitch to his shorts. The
woman was still under the house, washing
clothes in some improvised tubs on the
ground. She stood up, slowly wiping her
hands on the full skirt, which was banded
horizontally and dazzlingly in purple,
green, yellow, red and white. She smiled
inquiringly. He noticed that she had a
lovely mouth, wide but finely cut, and
that her long, dark-fringed eyes were
blue. He had been prepared to find that,
like most of the women up here at present,
she had a touch of the tar-brush.
He kept his mouth straight and
adjusted the dark glasses sternly.
“Good morning,” he said. “Ah —the
fish have been disappearing from our
trap lately. Have you seen anyone inter-
fering with it?”
She opened her clear eyes wide and
shook her head, still smiling. He felt
a half-angry urge to make her speak. Her
charm would disappear as soon as she
opened her mouth, no doubt.
“Your husband not about?”
A smiling shake of the head, accom-
panied by the lift of one eyebrow.
Curse her, he thought. She went back
to one of the tubs and crouched beside
it, rubbing at the clothes within.
He watched, fascinated, the soap-
bubbles clinging to her smooth brown
arms.
“The R.A.A.F. built the trap, you
know,” he said. “It cost us a lot of
work and we count on it to vary the diet
a bit. M. and V. gets pretty monotonous,
especially in a stinking hole like this.”
He let all his hatred of the heat, all his
nostalgia for his southern home get into
the last words.
The woman—she was only a girl really,
he saw now, not more than twenty or
perhaps twenty-three—twisted a soapy
shirt and with a dexterous movement
flung it into a bowl of clean water with
a splash.
“i like it,” she said quietly. “Perhaps
because I’m used to it.” She had the
sallow complexion of a woman who has
lived long in the tropics.
He groaned inwardly. There was no-
thing wrong with her voice. Unthink-
ingly he squatted down on his heels, in
the comfortable pose which camp life
had taught him, with his elbows between
his knees. He stabbed at a stray green
ant with a piece of stick.
“I come from Melbourne. God, how
I’d love to feel a good cold, sleety wind
blowing down Collins-street.” He
scratched with the stick in the hard
ground under the house. The drops of
sweat fell off his nose and chin on to the
ground.
He stared at her from under his dark
brows, and then from out of the corner
of his eye saw his offsider beginning to
climb out of the utility. He stood up
abruptly.
“Well, I wish you’d keep a look-out
when the tide is out, if we’re not here;
and tell me if you see anyone ratting our
trap. They’d better look out,” he added
darkly.
She replied only with her enigmatic
smile.
THAT night, tossing under his stifling
sandfly net on the hard straw palli-
asse, he could not get her out of his mind.
He thought fiercely of his fiancee in Mel-
bourne, but instead of Flora’s fresh pink
cheeks and dark eyes he saw the un-
known girl, the colored stripes of her
skirt, the white silk jumper covering her
small breasts, the dark fluff of her hair,
her long blue eyes and mocking smile ;
and as soon as he fell asleep he dreamed
that there was a big fish in the trap, and
when he went to get it it was the girl,
smiling at him with her red lips . . .
Though low tide came early in the
morning now, he saw her several times on
the beach, wandering about on the sand-
flats in a brief sun-suit. Then came the
dodge tides, and it was dark when they
inspected the trap; they found a few
fish in it. One morning there was a small
long-tom wedged high up in one of the
enclosures, where jt had swum half-
through the mesh and got stuck. It was
higher than his head, showing where the
tide had been up to overnight.
The girl was coming down to the beach
as they drove up, and he handed the
small fish to her.
“Here, it’s not enough for our mess.
You might as well have it.”
She smiled. “Thanks. M. and V. does
get a bit monotonous, doesn’t it?”
For the first time he allowed himself
to smile back at her, showing his even
white teeth. He had suspected her un-
justly. Perhaps it was that big sea-eagle
sitting on the post out there, with his buff
wings and white breast, who was to
blame. Or hermit crabs? He had seen a
fish pretty welT eaten away by crabs.
“What I really miss most is fresh milk,”
she said.
“Milk? I can get you some. We’ve got
a herd of cows inland a bit, though they
don’t give much milk. I’ll bring you
some tomorrow.”
SHE was not on the beach next morn-
ing. He and his two passengers
rushed excitedly to the outer trap to see
what the big fish was there, but it was
only a ground shark. The tide was
already on the turn, and the water was
making about the outer trap. He stepped
carefully past the patch of quicksand, A
ripple came at his foot with a little
menacing rush. Though he was not un-
duly imaginative, he shivered. There was
something inexorable about the daily
movement of the sea. Tide waits for no
one . . . No, what was it? Time and
tide wait for no man.
He drove up to the road and parked
there, taking the carefully-wrapped
lemonade-bottle of milk up to the house..
The men jeered at him. He took no
notice but climbed the wooden steps and
handed her the bottle through the open
door. She did not invite him in. He
sat on the landing and talked to her
through the door. The morning was
misty and pungent with the smoke of
grass-fires burning across the bay. He
sat in the shade of the palm-tree, whose
fronds clacked in the dry wind. He told
her that he had taken the milk off the ice,
and she drank some from a thick enamel
mug while he watched her with a pleased
air.
He seemed nervous. He could not sit
still, but strode up and down the landing,
talking through the open louvres, speak-
ing jerkily, adjusting his dark glasses and
wiping the sweat from his clean-shaven
upper li|>. She drank the milk slowly,
preserving her air of calm and secret
amusement. She was conscious, con-
scious all the time of her attraction for
these men starved for a white woman’s
company, bored by the routine of their
lives now the war was over. He knew
it and in a way hated her for it, yet
it added to her attractiveness; she had
the conscious grace of a cat which knows
it is being watched, and Will even lick its
hind legs with an air.
C OR a week there were no fish in the
* trap, night or day; but one morning
there was an early fisherman on the rocks
further along the beach, and he strolled
up to the utility.
“That trap’s bin done already, mate.
Fine big barramundi they got out there
this mornin’.”
“Who? This trap’s ours.”
“Yours? Thought it belonged to the
shack up there.”
The young officer’s mouth became a
hard line. He looked along the beach to
where the girl was gathering driftwood,
the backwash of war with which the
beach was strewn.
“You go up to the shack and have a
look round,” he said to the two aircrafts-
men with him. “I’ll keep her talking.”
He found it easy to talk to her, but
hard to keep his eyes from the length of
neat limb exposed by the khaki shorts
and mannish white shirt she wore. Glanc-
ing restlessly back at the shack, he saw
the men come out from underneath with
something long and shining between
them. Still talking, he led her back
towards the track over the sand-ridges.
They walked over the rusted iron mesh,
across the red dusty road, and were con-
fronted by the triumphant aircraftsmen
bearing a three-foot barramundi.
“Well?” He turned to look at u
sternly. “That bloke down there told n**
a barramundi was taken out of th« ♦
this morning.” * ra P
She turned wide blue eves imnn
“Wherever did you hud that?”?
Under a tub, under the house there”
Well, I can t think how it got there ”
Perhaps it swam!” he said s J i:
cally, and turned on his heel 1
They trooped to the utility and eo t in
Before he drove off he turned once S JL n '
to look at the house; the girl had
appeared up the steps. d dls *
“It beats me ” he said, “how anyone
with eyds like that can be such a damned
KJBXT day there was quite a good haul
1 N of medium-sized fish in the trap Tht
welcome change in the diet, with fried
fish instead of tinned dog on the men?
only whetted their appel
tites for more. They
drove down to the
beach twice a day with
renewed eagerness,
whereas they had lately
been making only one
visit in the mornings.
On the second day they
found two big barra-
mundi, one in each
trap. The house among
the long grass appeared
deserted.
“Maybe they’ve left,” said the young
officer, glancing up at the house through
his dark glasses and wondering why he
felt a sense of desolation. “The husband
must’ve been taking the fish into town
and selling it. They’ve obviously been
getting good hauls.”
“I heard that he isn’t her husband,”
said one of the aircraftsmen. “They say
she’s been drifting round the north for
years, taking up with different men.
She’d even have taken a Jap on if they’d
got here, I expect.”
The other scowled. “Oh, I dunno.
She doesn’t look such a hard case.”
The next day there were no fish in the
trap, and the next and the next there
were still none. At first they took it as
a natural turn of the luck, but after two
weeks of drawing blanks they were ready
to give it away. The morningI*] 1 *] ow tide
was at five in the morning now, which
meant turning out uncomfortably early,
and five in the afternoon was an awkward
time, and extremely hot.
On the fifteenth day in succession,
coming down in the heat of the after-
noon, they found nothing in the trap.
Nor was there any sign of the girl,
though today her bright skirt flapped on
the line in the dry trade-wind with some
other clothes. Inexplicably irritated by
one absence as much as the other, the
young officer said, “To hell with the
fish. Let ’em have them. It’s not worth
coming all this bloody way for nothing.”
“We ought to set a trap for them, the
s,” suggested somebody darkly.
“Wait behind a sandhill with a revolver,
and when they come up for the fish” . . .
“Ar, it’s not worth while. We’d only
catch the girl, anyway.” His eyes nar-
rowed behind the dark glasses, and he
added, roaring up the engine so that it
almost drowned his words, “I’ve a good
mind to make her pay for them, though.”
“How’re you going to make her pay
for fish she’s already got?”
He set his teeth as he bungled a change
of gear.
“She can pay in kind, can’t she?”
BUT the next day he came rattling
over the corrugations, alone. It was
late afternoon. He had wanted to come
all day, but' he had invented various
duties to keep him at headquarters.
He stopped and looked along the
beach. No sign of her. The shack looked
deserted, too. He walked up the twelve
wooden steps and entered for the first
time. His feet echoed loudly on the
bare floor. The one big room was neatly
swept, but the bunks were unmade. A
cloth spread on a table in an alcove was
decorated with a pile of shells and cora,
some food lay under a net. He wen
through to the tiny kitchen. No one.
From the landing he shaded ms ey
against the glare of the westering s
and looked along the beach. Only
heat-shimmer moved on the sand,
a sea-eagle sat on a post near the
of the trap. The flat, still sea was slowly
receding, until the end of the trap
almost dry. There might be a fish m
Well, he’d trick her this time, g
before the water had gone, when sh a
be scared to enter the trap or
Sh He ran down the steps, half-relief
not to have found her at ho™ e - t
drove on to the wet sand and g
Yes, there was something big m tn
(Continued on page 32.}


The Bulletin
“Vol. 71 —No. 3674
Wednesday, July 12, 1950
ANTI-
RED
KENNEL
f
GETTING COLDER OUTSIDE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street , Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
KOREA AND REALITIES.
The one-afternoon debate on the Korean
situation in Canberra was not inspiring.
The gist of all speeches, from that of Mr.
Menzies downwards, hinged round the
Prime Minister’s resolution:
That this House, having before it the
Charter of the United Nations and the
recent resolution of the Security Council
in relation to Korea, approves of the action
taken by the Government in placing at the
disposal of the United Nations the forces
indicated in the statement of the Prime
Minister.
This resolution received the formal
support of the whole Flouse, though it
was a sullen T and muttering support on
the “Labor” side, highlighted by out-
bursts from Messrs. Ward and Calwell,
who appeared to have been dragged to
the altar to witness the sacrifice of their
cardinal political principle that everything
a non-“ Labor” Government does must
be wrong.
M.uch of the lack of patriotic fire was
because Australia purports to be acting
through U.N.0., whereas the fight which
is now being waged in Korea is really
part of a fight between an Asiatic
barbarism, led from Moscow, and ■ the
British-speaking peoples, who can expect
very little help from anybody else in the
present or any forseeable struggle.
The only other nations which
would be capable of supporting them are
either disorganised by internal strife or
captive in the hands of the victors of the
last war. U.N.O- has been unable so far
to secure among its major member-
nations sufficient agreement to enable a
peace-treaty to be made with Germany
as a whole and Japan, or to use its
strength, which is supposed to be a
sovereign deterrent against Soviet attack
on the democracies, to persuade Russia
to allow its allies a hand in determining
the fate of Eastern Europe, whose people
are now bound hand and foot to Stalin’s
chariot-wheel.
One inescapable fact is that if the
United States and/or members of the
British Commonwealth had not acted in
Korea there would have been nothing
save talk and provocative and futile reso-
lutions from most of the rest of U.N.O.
Another is that whatever U.N.O. and its
strange Security Council did, both the
United States and the British Common-
wealth were bound to act or else get out
of Asia altogether. To allow the North
Koreans with their Chinese-Communist
war-training and their abundance of
Moscow-made weapons to overrun South
Korea would have been to lose face
altogether with the Asiatics and to create
a situation in Japan which would ulti-
mately have had disastrous results in our
international relations.
Korea, in the Japanese outlook, is “a
dagger pointed at the heart of Japan,”
and one of the reasons why the Japanese
have accepted occupation by the Allies
with docility and given a co-operation
greater than expected lies in their fear,
of being left as helpless prey for the
Russians. From them they know they
could expect no more mercy as a nation
than their hundreds of thousands of
soldiery who fell into the hands of the
Kremlin as the result of a Manchurian
victory in which the Red Army scarcely
fired a shot, except at executions.
The prime urge which is driving the
American, British, Australian, Canadian,
New Zealand and Netherlands Govern-
ments —the only ones which have so far
contributed, or taken steps to contribute,
immediate practical assistance in support
of the South Koreans —is not lip-service
to the alleged “democratic principles”
and aspirations for peace of the U.N.O.
nations, but a grim realisation that the
few civilised countries of the world which
remain are fighting for everything which
meqns anything to them. They are fight-
mg for Western progress, Western
freedom. Western culture. They are
ghtmg to hold back a wave of barbarism
such as the world has never seen since
the invading hordes of Asia put out the
lights of Rome and set the world’s civili-
sation back a thousand years. And it is
scarcely in question that they would be
lo fight better if this view were put
frankly and if the war were divorced
from U.N.0., one of whose most power-
ful members is our open enemy, as well
as an organiser and provider of munitions
in North Korea’s aggression.
If it can be got into the heads of the
citizens of Western nations that they
are fighting for themselves and for their
homes they will certainly fight much
better than if they believe they are fight-
ing merely for the “principles of the
Atlantic Charter,” and that they are being
“placed at the disposal” of the .Security
Council.
One of these days historians will make
a closer study of U.N.O. and find room
for astonishment in the discovery that its
foundation was built on principles which
strangely suit Communist plans and ambi-
tions. “Support Dumbarton Oaks!” was
a prominent Communist slogan in 1944.
The strange body came into existence
when the whole world seemed to be fazed
by Communist propaganda and when, as
it has since proved, some leading advo-
cates of one of its principal organisations
were agents of Soviet Russia. One
of them, Mr. Hiss, Mr. Roosevelt’s chief
councillor at Yalta, is now to serve several
years in jail for perjury only because
the Statute of Limitations barred his
trial in the United States for treason as
a Russian spy and agent, acting in the
very heart of the Allied High Command.
With the help of such agents the Com-
munists succeeded in persuading the world
that Litvinov’s doctrine that “peace is
indivisible” provides the only formula
for universal salvation and tranquillity.
Accepting this, the more powerful nations
on the Western side weakened themselves
both physically and morally by forming
associations with, and making themselves
party to, Governments not of their own
standards of stability and integrity. Also,
they presented Moscow with a clear-cut
basis for its propaganda of world domina-
tion.
Among Western nations the new
doctrine upon which U.N.O. has been
built has served Russia in another
way in undermining the confidence of
people in their own national systems and
in their pride in their own flag, and also
in their belief in the need to provide
strong defence for themselves. Nowhere
has this been more evident than in the
British Empire, where Socialism, so akin
to international Communism in its
beliefs and primary objectives, has sacri-
ficed national safety and the ideal of pat-
riotism to the theory that any form of de-
fence is an invitation to aggression.
In Australia, within the last few weeks,
we have had the spectacle of leaders
of “Labor,” who yesterday bitterly
opposed the sending of Australian troops
to Malaya to defend this country’s inter-
ests against Communism, meekly agree-
ing to a Government resolution that we
should' fight in Korea becauste orders
have been issued by a divided and poly-
glot “world body.”
It is true that we.must fight in Korea,
as must every civilised nation which
values its future safety. But it is not true
that we are fighting there merely “at the
disposal of U.N.0.” We are beginning
to fight for ourselves as Australian and
British subjects, and because every
advance of armed Communism adds
to the danger which overhangs us.
It would be healthy if all shams
were dropped and it were made clear
to every citizen. of the English-
speaking world that what is actually being
fought for in Korea is his home and
his life. Russia has never acknowledged
internationalism as its guiding principle
to its own people. At home its appeal
is always made to the patriotism of “the
sons of the Russian fatherland,” admit-
tedly bent on the control of the world.
Its devotion to U.N.O. principles has
been kept bottled for export to intoxi-
cate softshelled academic brains like
those of Dr. Evatt.
End of Coupons.
An unlamented casualty of last week was
the peace-time food-coupon system in
this relatively happy land. Rationing
goes but ill with the sort of prospectus
now being written for an Australia to be
made secure for the white race, to be
developed as a producer of food and raw
materials to repair the deficiencies of the
northern hemisphere, particularly lower
Asia, and to be made the home of a
larger, thriving population.
Since the Socialist Government under
Mr. Chifley went out, pledged to the last
to rationing and price-controls as prin-
ciples of government, and the Menzies
Government came in with the slogan of
re-educating a people accustomed to lean-
ing on the Government into standing on
its own feet again, petrol-rationing disap-
peared, then butter-rationing, and finally
tea-rationing. With tea went the last of
the coupons, those Government tickets
for whajt a citizen might eat and drink
and use and wear which were also easy
money to the forger, currency in a wide-
spread blackmarket, and the tokens of
every man’s bondage to some bureaucratic
clerk.
The coupon-system kept a huge
staff of public servants in employment
not only unproductive, but founded on
non-production, or at least insufficient
production. While it lasted it made not
only a fetish of, but even a fashion for,
shortage in essential commodities, and it
perpetuated the state of war which ended
in 1945. Coupons were the tokens of
those detestable controls which, endurable
of necessity in war-time, provoked only
rebellion and law-breaking in peace.
To the Socialists, of course, they were
the daily currency of their planned
welfare State, designed, as one of their
enthusiastic apologists has written, “to
secure absolute equality in the distribu-
tion of basic foods so long as there exists
a shortage.” And not only basic foods,
but everything else. In Australia, Britain
and New Zealand the Socialists have
fought a losing fight, and in very bad
temper, against the abolition of petrol-
rationing, though petrol had become an
essential fuel for all producing enter-
prises. Butter- and tea-rationing, the re-
maining restrictions on the Australian
food list when the Menzies Government
took office, had for long been notoriously
superfluous, though the rationing of butter
here was a factor in providing sufficient
for export to combat the British shortage.
When the ban on sale of .cream could no
longer be sustained the rationing of
butter was clearly doomed, and with
ample Government-bought tea in the
country to meet all demands, tea-coupons
were obviously headed also for the in-
cinerator.
Government policy was, in fact, being
forced to loosen, grip"on these details of
the grocers’ business. It became evident
after January 1 last (when “transitional”
National Security Regulations ran out)
that the rationing of butter and tea could
hardly have survived challenge in the
High Court, and the Menzies Government
was committed to wiping out all controls
it could get rid of. “Labor” barrackers
for rationing and price-controls viewed
the prospective passing of the last of them
with the same sour regard as they showed
for the abolition of petrol-tickets, as
witness Senator Armstrong’s demand in
Parliament to know whether the inevitable
rise in price of tea if rationing were
ended, with supplies exceeding consump-
tion, did not make nonsense of the Gov-
ernment’s claim that increased production
would cheapen cost of goods. It would
have been a fair reply to him that there
was a surplus of jobs of work in the
country, too, but the price demanded for
doing them is constantly rising.
Something of the Socialist machinery
of price-controls remains in the form of
subsidies. The Menzies Government has
introduced subsidies to producers of
wheat and butter consumed in Australia
as an offset to higher market prices over-
seas, and a reduced subsidy on tea, keeps
the purchase price for the public at 3s. 4d.
a pound instead of nearly 6s. at landed
cost. With the greatly-reduced taxation
on the lower fields of incomes, the argu-
ment for food-subsidies has lost cogency.
It could be validated only with a restora-
tion of general price-control, to which
the Socialists for Socialism’s sake are
devoted, and even then is a snare and a
delusion.
All experience in every country which
has tried price-control shows that it
does not operate to keep down prices of
commodities subsidised, especially when
(as under the Chifley distortion of the
principle) price of labor as a commodity
in the market was freed from control.
Subsidies under price-control were fast
making hay of the “Labor” Government’s
Budget when the popular referendum re-
jected that Government’s appeal for
powers to control prices permanently, and
food subsidies today are one of the most
serious embarrassments to the British
Ministry. The idea that the taxpayers
generally shall pay increasingly towards
the cost of what the individual citizen eats
and drinks is one of the pet Socialist plans
which human nature refuses to tolerate.
Some unofficial rationing in our midst
survives of necessity while current pro-
duction within our own resources fails
to meet demand. Shortage of coal out-
put means in all cities and most large
towns lack of sufficient gas, electric-
power and transport services. In gas and
power the public has largely, under in-
struction, to ration itself, and pays im-
mediate penalty if it does not. Many
controls, also, still operate. Some of
them, like rent-controls and overseas im-
ports, are of direct Government applica-
tion, notably through a world-wide bond-
age to Uncle Samson (as Beverley
Nichols calls him) for dollars. Others
are imposed, under a form of power-
politics, by certain trade-unions mh- x.
limit their members’ daily Whlcil
or services. There is So’g e l* ood ?
foreign travel: the days that Mr u ot
lamented not long ago-“l W a nt ? ev * n
able to take a train at Victoria be
[abroad] where the hell I like”Ahow 8 °
signs of returning. It is not in th 80
of the Welfare State to rett ” ature
lasting form-filling, permits, passMrt'
and inhibitions upon drawing L
funds for expenses. The daysmenl a " k
senger-hners ran to schedule in Aim™i
or plied at all on the Pacific to &
Amenca, seem to be gone with the wS
nsrng to gale force, of high cos*S
any service whatever. lor
Upon this easygoing community th«
dead hand of these inhibitions
fall as something natural and unavni?
able. It is, of course, nothing of the sort
but rather an ugly and man-made obstacle
to the national progress which Australia
must either somehow develop with S
momentum behind it, or lose her indent
dence and racial character. There k tS
enemy to that progress like our own in
difference, and we are yet too close to the
events of the past four years to realise
how much we have thrown away through
indifference to abuse of our economic
opportunities. 1C
We have left a long way behind the
commercial age when, as an Enelish
economist has said, “people over the
greater part of the [Victorian] world could
get up in the morning, haul on their
clothes, and go out to reduce the scarcity
of something undisturbed by the mounte-
bankenes of politics.” But the abolition
th ® u^ st Peace-time ration-coupons
though belated, is at least a first milestone
on the road back to energetic rediffction
ot shortages in a land where existence of
any shortage whatever is a standing re-
proach to the people.
Making a Jubilee.
The Prime Minister has asked all hands
to hop in and make the 1951 Common-
wealth Jubilee celebrations a big show.
It is to be hoped some originality is
brought into play. Sports, parades,
pageants, pilgrimages, etc., are traditional
features of these celebrations, with special
Royal Shows in all the capitals, carnivals
in the big towns and euchre-parties in
the little ones, and they’re apt to take on
a sameness —a repetition of things like
the N.S.W. Sesqui-Centenary, Melbourne’s
100th Anniversary, Adelaide Remembers
Colonel Light, Back to Benambra Week,
the Barossa Vintage Festival and the
North Murchison Football Club’s first
premiership.
That sort of thing is inescapable, of
course, but along with the usual parades
of explorers, pioneers, diggers, drovers,
Billy Hughes, squatters, the first brewery,
Ned Kelly, Murray steamers, the first
reaper. Carbine, early shearers, a sheep-
station of the 1850’s, Deeming, Collins-
street in 1890, and so forth, let’s not
forget modern Australian life and people.
Tableaux, for instance. The Cycle of
History could be depicted by showing a
group of Australian natives outside a
wurlie watching a wallaby roasting in
1851, beside them a family of Australian
natives of 1951 outside a converted
Army-hut watching the mother cook on
an open fire. An added touch of realism
would be a stone marked “This stone
was laid by the Hon. C. Evatt, Minister
for Housing, 1948.” Visitors would thus
be able to see the great strides made in
housing in a century.
Public finance could be depicted by an
ill-clothed, half-starved taxpayer looking
at a poster bearing the legend “Members
Salary Increase” or “More Millions Lost
on Transport.” To show how determined
we are to keep this country, a tableau ot
two school cadets and a Wolf Cub pacK
shooting at a hostile air-fieet would e
most striking. The Benefits of Pub
Education could be shown m one or
several ways ; for instance, by publishing
the appeals for funds of the Sydney uni-
versity and the Queensland Umvers y
Colleges alongside the annual income or
a couple of State lotteries. National
Sport could be simply depicted by
newspaper-poster: “Leading Jockey
Night Club Head-waiter.”
And what a chance for a set 'P ie( * °
National Culture! Dick , g
man, Joe Palooka and Vic Flmt p ayi g
The Four Horsemen of the A P°^fV hv
in the revised radio version sponsoredy
Ladee Luck’s. Dog Soap (two cakes t
9d.), with special quiz sessions at U ■
and’s p.m. every Friday. .• us
One way and ano^ h ® r? . lt: i? a ke next
that all that is needed to make
year’s Commonwealth Jubilee * ss j s
ful exposition of Australian p S
a little thought.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Korea and A.L.P. Unions.
The Communist party of Australia, still
free to work its treason by grace of
Mr Chifley and Dr. Evatt and their fol-
lowers, leaves no room for doubt about
which side it is on in the Asian War. It
speaks, in its official journal, of “the
aggressive imperialist war in Korea” in
which the “invaders,” who include Aus-
tralians of the R.A.A.F., are being
“trounced,” an allegation in which it re-
joices. It says that Federal Parliament
last week “spoke for Australia’s enemies,”
who include the United States—the forces
of which saved this country from in-
vasion.
Our friends it supposes to be the
Russians, who, a few months before Pearl
Harbor, were urging a peace of surrender
to Hitler, and bargaining with Japan for
a free hand in South-western Asia in ex-
change for support of Japan’s plans to
conquer the Pacific, this country included.
“Peace” Councils and Communist
union leaders during the week took steps
for active support of the enemy. The
council of the A.E.U., according to the
“Tribune,” wired Mr. Chifley demanding
“that the Labor party oppose the inter-
vention in Korea and the consequent
embroiling of Australia in a third world
war.” This union has over the past three
years provided the Federal A.L.P. with
its president.
The 8.W.1.U. Federal Executive has
denounced intervention in Korea as a
violation of the Atlantic Charter and
called on the Federal Opposition to de-
mand an end to intervention. Waterside
Workers’ meetings were addressed by
Paul Mortier —former secretary of the
Darwin branch of the Communist party
—on behalf of the Peace Council. The
meetings passed a resolution:
We warn Menzies and any other Fascist
that we will not have workers of Australia
killing other workers to protect the
capitalist class. We warn that any con-
scription by Menzies will be met by
working-class action. We say : Not a man,
ship, plane or gun for the aggressive
imperialist war on Korea and Malaya.
The Teachers’ Peace Group (N.S.W.)
supported a similar resolution. And
the Seamen’s Union has decided to refuse
to load arms and war supplies for Korea,
a decision which has been referred to
the AttornSy-General.
All this is very awkward for the A.L.P.,
whose N. S. Wales branch is to hold its
annual convention on July 14-16, to be
addressed by Mr. Chifley on the final day.
Labor’s official organ, as well as its
leaders, say that “Labor’s policy is clear
and Labor stands behind the decisions of
the United Nations” ; but there has been,
to date of writing, no word of condem-
nation of the attitude of the Communist-
led unions which have passed seditious
resolutions and all of which, except the
seamen, are part of the political Labor
party and take part in its con-
ventions. The only reference which has
been made officially by Labor this week
is in a leading article in the party’s offi-
cial organ, which says that “Labor” “will
continue to oppose” the onus-of-proof
and other clauses in the Communist Dis-
solution Bill and that the Government
already has enough powers to deal with
the Communists “when the Korean situa-
tion really threatens Australian security.”
Apart frorrr this there is a dead silence
on the subject of the bill in Labor’s ranks.
But from Dr. Evatt has come a statement
in which occurs the sentence: “In sup-
porting the United Nations, the United
States, Australia and other countries are
not technically at war with North Korea.”
Even though it seems that North Korea
itself issued a declaration of war. Dr.
Evatt thinks the action of U.N.O. is
“equivalent to police action on an'inter-
national scale.”
No doubt the Communist leaders of the
A.L.P.’s constituent unions hope that the
Doctor is right. If we are not technically
at war their position under the Crimes
Act and in relation to treason generally
is far different from what it would be if
we are at war. But it is doubtful if
encircled U.S. soldiers, or R.A.A.F. men
mourning their first casualty, would be as
enthusiastic as the Communists about the
views of Barton’s legal genius.
That N.S.W. Judgeship.
Vacancy on the N.S.W. Supreme Court
Bench, existing since the death many
months ago of the late Chief Justice,
Frederick Jordan, is still unfilled, though
the McGirr Government did, after long
delay, make up its mind about appoint-
ing Street, J., to the Chief-Justiceship.
But the vacancy remains, and the
choice of a new Judge was postponed in
May because the McGirr crowd wished
to see how the election cat would jump.
The yyay it did jump means that if
anyone in the present (and preceding)
McGirr Ministry were appointed the
McGirr Government’s majority in the
Assembly would be gone, at least for a
space; and by-elections now must, to
the Premier who keeps on giving himself
a leather medal for his political record,
seem highly risky ventures.
11 this outstanding leader had got back
with the overwhelming majority he
thought he deserved and said he expected,
the choice might have gone a certain way.
As things are, the appointment will prob-
ably be made from outside Parliament.
But when ?
Defence.
With war on the horizon, the Common-
wealth defence plans announced during
the week are inadequate. The Defence
Council decided that some time early
next year 15,000 youths in the 18-year-oid
group will be called up compulsorily,
and that gradually the number of trainees
in this group will be increased to about
24,000. The call-ups will be “staggered”
so that too many youths will not be taken
out of industry at the same time. The
youths who are inducted for two years
will have two periods in camp, with a
few weekend drills in between each year.
Various Ministers'had their say, Mr.
Fadcfen, according to the daily Press,
“admitted the priority of defence de-
mands, but pointed out that the Govern-
ment’s commitments in the coming year
were heavy enough already to produce a
deficit,” while the service Ministers urged,
it was reported, that the £295,000,000
spread over five years under the existing
plan for all services was too small.
If the money cannot be found any
other way for efficient defence, the
country should go without some of its
luxuries. Its social-service schemes are
in that category, especially in these days
of high wages, and its short hours and
absenteeism are distinctly so in a country
in which every youngster is being taught
that the proper preparation for life is a
free or neariy-free university training for
a “learned profession,” while the Gov-
ernment is compelled to seek skilled
artisans abroad.
Australia, like all the rest of the
Western world, is in peril, and if the
dangers which threaten overseas should
materialise there will be no 40-hour-week,
no social services worth the name, and
compulsory service for operations both
inside and outside the country will be
absolutely universal.
It is the duty of the Government to
give a lead in driving this home to all
Australians, irrespective of political
expediency. It has, undoubtedly, a
cunning and politically unscrupulous
“Labor” Opposition to contend with, but
there must be no wavering on major
issues.
Steps should be taken at once to create
an up-to-date, fully permanent division
equipped on a modern scale and with
adequate air co-operation and armored,
support. It should be available for service
anywhere when needed. And, at what-
ever cost, the existing militia divisions
should be filled and made efficient.
"Back Home and Broke."
After doing 26 months of a three-year
sentence for forging' the signature of
H. G. Forshaw in the remarkable New
Guinea timber case, “Jock” Garden
came back to Sydney in a style indica-
tive of the spirit of the age. Press re-
porters and cameramen gave him a royal
welcome.
The Sydney citizenry found them-
selves gazing at a picture of a smiling
Mr. Garden being greeted by smiling
members of his family, and the pictures
were duly relayed to the Press in other
States. Mr. Ward’s former iiaison-
officer didn't express disappointment be-
cause no civic welcome had been ar-
ranged—he probably realised there hadn’t
been time —but confessed jovially that he
“hadn’t a bean,” had lost 281 b. during 17
months in Long Bay but regained 211 b.
of it during eight months at Tumbaruraba
prison farm, down in the salubrious
Upper Murray country.
There he worked in the flower-garden,
got “three hot meals a day and a pudding
on Wednesdays,” and “when the fowls
were laying, an egg and a sausage on
Sunday mornings.” Many a Sydney
family would be willing to serve a stretch
at Tumbarumba if guaranteed such
a diet, after pondering over what they
get in their city of high meat prices, few
eggs and gasless fires.
The temporary absentee “motored
home with friends” after “the Prisons
Department took him to Wagga, about
70 miles,” and “friends who have flats in
the same block will join in a welcome-
home to Mr. Garden,” at which function
it was, presumably, that he told reporters
he’d met “a lot of good fellows” in jail
and received “a stack of good-luck tele-
grams,” was still a member of the Aus-
tralian Labor party but wasn’t surprised
by the result of the last Federal election.
The future? He “might do a bit of
writing” or “try to find a job in the com-
mercial world.” He is 67.
Garden’s old pal, E. J. Ward, was not
noticed among the welcoming host. Nor
were any of those “Labor” celebrities
he’d “coached in economics” when they
were merely up-and-coming.
Ward and War.
East Sydney’s E. J. Ward, M.P., has
only two speeches—the “Brisbane Line”
one, and the other. Which of them is the
more scurrilous has never been settled.
He brought out the “Brisbane Line”
yarn at the end of the Korea debate (for
which last week’s special session of the
Federal Parliament was called). It is
apparent that his was a lone dissentient
Voice in the prior caucus meeting which
“approved” the Menzies Government
action committing Australian forces on
the spot in support of what is called the
“U.N. police action” against North
Korea. Mr. Ward’s line in the debate
was as in 1939-41: that.the Government
“cannot be trusted,” and he said, as he
said In the mid-war years, that the Minis-
ters of the Menzies Government “are the
men who left this country defenceless at
the outbreak of the last war.”
Apart from the fact that there, can be
no doubt it was “Labor” which has left
this country without any armed services
amounting to a cracker for this threat
of a new war, Mr. Ward’s statement was
twice given the lie direct by the late John
Curtin, once a few months before he
took office in 1941 and once just after
that event. These Curtin statements are
worth recalling today from Hansard:
May 28, 1941: The war has been
prosecuted to the maximum of Australia’s
capacity, and I doubt if any improvements
could have been made on what has been
done [by the Menzies Government]. I have
been associated with the Ministers [in the
Advisory War Council].... It and the
Government have gripped with problems
in a way which I believe is as satisfactory
as possible
October 18, 1941 {ll days after the
Curtin Government took office ); ' Most
Ministers of the [newly-formed] War
Cabinet are familiar with Australia’s war
effort The Navy is at the highest pitch
of efficiency The Home Defence Army
is well trained and its equipment has been
generally improved. The strength of the
Air Force has been largely increased, both
in respect of home-defence squadrons and
training resources of the Empire Air
Scheme Finally, munitions production
and the development of production capacity
over a wide range of classes, including
aircraft, are growing weekly.
Mr. Ward, however, prefers to place
himself at odds with him whom the war-
time “Labor” party called its adored
leader.
And what was the East Sydney rebel’s
own showing during the national emer-
gency as World War II threatened and
finally burst upon us? He laid down his
attitude towards any sort of defence as
early as 1932, soon after he entered
Parliament:
I was not old enough to go to the last
war [1914-18], but even if I had been I
should not have gone I say frankly
that no matter what the nation may be
with which Australia comes in conflict, I
shall not support the project. ( Hansard,
October 26, 1932.)
Then, as* to getting ready for the threat
against world peace by Hitfer:
Panic - stricken, the Commonwealth
Government, along with the Imperial
Government, is spending an enormous
amount of money on what it claims to be
defence provisions.... I should not be pre-
pared to take up arms against the workers
of Germany or any other nationality.
{Hansard, November 5, 1936.)
Hitler’s war duly broke out. Three
days later Mr. Ward was heard saying
in Parliament:
Evidently there are many in this Parlia-
ment, as well as Britain, who want to defeat
Hitler not because of his policy but because
Germany is a strong rival in the commercial
field. {Hansard, September 6, 1939.)
This was his idea then of the sweet-
reasonableness of Fascists:
The sensible thing to do is instead of
carrying on this stupid conflict.... an effort
should be made to summon a conference
of the major nations for the purpose of
ending it. {Hansard, November 16, 1939.)
On April 12, 1940, the Communist
“Tribune” reported him as saying before
a Darlinghurst A.L.P. meeting:
Since its outbreak I have opposed this
war as one not in the interests of the
working-class. My utterances in the Federal
Parliament prove that....l am opposed to
a force going overseas and to reinforce-
ments for the Australian force now over-
seas I do not trust the [Menzies]
Government.
And ten days later in Parliament-
The men who advocate sending troops
from Australia in the existing circumstances
[the Suez Canal was threatened from Libya
by a great Italian Army] are either con-
sciously or unconsciously guilty of a
traitorous act to this country. {Hansard,
April 22. 1940.)
This was the man who later said that
the Menzies Government at the outbreak,
of World War II could not even defend
New Guinea and proposed to fight on a
“Brisbane Line,” The “Brisbane Line”
charge, of course, was one he was not
game, when formally challenged, to sub-
stantiate.
The Silence of the Damned.
Sydney has been accused both by visitors
and its own citizens of being a dread-
fully noisy place, which might be true
enough in one sense, though in another
it is probably the most silent city in the
world. It can endure public incon-
venience and suffering and official indif-
ference to both with a silent fortitude
compared with which the Red Indian’s
stoicism under torture becomes a deafen-
ing howl.
The truth is that the million-odd people
who cluster on both sides of the Harbor
are blanketed under such a top-hamper
of officials of all kinds that no more than
a complaining squeak or two can get
through to the upper air. Occasionally
some rash fellow or maddened housewife
rises up and demands to know why such
inconvenience and suffering should be,
but his is as a voice crying in a wilder-
ness of apathy, and the owner thereof
is looked upon as a crank, and stands a
good chance of being run in and charged
with disturbing the peace.
Like other great cities, Sydney has a
mayor and corporation, and lesser mayors
and corporations are scattered about its
suburbs. These people are elected to
administer local services, such as keeping
the streets clean and lighted, maintain-
ing parks and sanitation, suppressing
nuisances, checking the sanitation of
premises, and so forth. There was a
time when these bodies also interested
themselves in the citizens’ welfare, but it
appears to have passed, since no mayor
has spoken forcibly about, the almost
primitive conditions in which many thou-
sands of Sydney people have to exist
today.
Thus no authoritative voice has been
heard condemning the gas-rationing, a
condition brought about because authori-
ties whose duty it is to see that adequate
coal-reserves are on hand to guard against
non-delivery of coal —as occurred when
floodwaters stopped some mines and
swamped roads and railways, while high
seas stopped colliers—failed in their duty.
Instead, the pusillanimous excuse that the
floods did it is accepted with apparent
satisfaction by everybody, from the
Premier of the State down to the newest
alderman.
Housewives battling to provide families
with hot meals in the midst of rainy and
cold weather, some of them forced to use
open fires in their backyards ; the entire
city buying all sorts of oil-stoves and
heaters; people forced to go dirty for
the want of hot water to wash themselves
and their garments; the risk of gas-
poisoning always on because an open
jet isn’t discovered until the gas “comes
on”; food spoilt in gas refrigerators;
threats of heavy fines for using gas in
“prohibited hours”; the making of a
cup of tea literally a criminal offence.
In any city calling itself modern and
civilised, as Sydney does, this sort of
thing, which occurred last winter and
the winter before that and the winter
before that, and looks like continuing
for many more winters, shopld have had
public men and organisations so vocal
with indignation that those responsible
would have shaken in their shoes.
Who is responsible? Government, Coal
Board, coal unions? All three, obviously.
But there is some responsibility also on
the people themselves and their elected
public leaders —the responsibility of their
own dignity. Either Sydney shakes itself
out of its present state of semi-
stupefaction or is damned to a future of
chronic electricity blackouts and gasless
kitchens.
The Dead Hand.
Unable to expand its works during the
1939-45 war for obvious reasons, Aus-
tralian Fertilizers, Ltd., has now pub-
lished a booklet explaining why it hasn’t
expanded since.
The company claims that it could have
met orders for superphosphate last year
had it not been for the coal strike, which
cost it 30,000 tons of manure (roughly
enough to supply 1,200,000 acres of
wheat). That lag hasn’t been made up,
and won’t be for a long time.
Back in 1937 the company decided
that it needed bigger works to meet a
growing demand. Its Port Kembla works
didn’t allow for expansion, so it sought
another site, which had to have access
to a wharf for receiving raw materials
by sea and to road and rail for rapid
{Continued, on next page.}


crav®*
~K
d
f
iU
CAR R E R A S
LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FORQUALITV
dispatch of fertiliser to the country. After
conferences with Government depart-
ments and other affected authorities,
some vacant Crown Land at Carrington
(Newcastle) was selected, and the com-
pany told the N.S.W. Government it
would buy it. In 1939 the Government
announced the price, but told the
company it would have to bear the
the cost of providing alternative
accommodation for occupiers of “sub-
standard dwellings held on permissive
occupancy.” The company agreed,
though this was no part of its
responsibility as a buyer of the 21 acres.
Negotiations then went ahead for the
provision of wharf, rail, power and other
facilities, the “fullest co-operation was
obtained from the departments con-
cerned,” —but:
Negotiations on a higher level with suc-
cessive Governments for acquisition of the
area dragged on throughout the war years
and since no finality could be reached.
.... Approval of the proposal has been
signified by the Greater Newcastle Council,
but delay and indecision on the part of
[N.S.W.] Cabinet has deferred the [building
of the works].... It is a fact that co-opera-
tion and support for the project has been
evident from certain Cabinet Ministers,
including the present Minister for Agricul-
ture, but this has not been reflected through-
out the whole Cabinet....
However, in February, 1949, the Gov-
ernment formally invited applications for
the land, to be referred to the Local
Land Board. The company lodged its
application, but the matter didn’t come
before the Land Board until October,
several other applicants were heard, the
hearing concluded in December. So far
the company has heard no more about it.
Meantime, the superphosphate position is
worse than ever. .
This story is by no means unique, it
is, on the contrary, quite typical of the
kind of thing private industry has to put
up with when trying to get even reason-
ably prompt decisions from Govern-
ments. It explains partly why things tna
should be done in weeks take years to
begin, and it is only one more shocking
example of the hobbles which have e
put on Australian initiative and enter-
prise in the past ten years.
POLITICAL POINTS
Last Thursday Federal Parliamen-
tarians came out of their winter quarters
for a one-day session to hear the Prime
Minister’s report on the Korean situa-
tion. Having heard and approved they
went back into hibernation.
The motion proposed by the Prime
Minister and carried by both Houses
was:
That this House, having before it the
Charter of the United Nations and the
recent resolutions of the Security Council
in relation to Korea, approves of the action
taken by the Government in placing at the
disposal of the United Nations the forces
indicated in the statement of the Prime
Minister.
In the Representatives Fadden, Spender
and Drummond, in addition to Menzies,
spoke on the Government side of the
House, and Chifley, Evatt, Fraser, Hay-
len, Calwell and Ward on the Opposition,
The last-named member of the chorus
sounded a little off-key and seemed to be
not quite sure whether he was for or
against the motion. Once into his stride
he soon slipped through force of habit
into his oft-heard speech about “Min-
isters who left this country defenceless
at the outbreak of the last war.” The
feeling is inescapable that even Eddie s
own colleagues don’t really take him seri-
ously these days.
In the Senate, O’Sullivan read the
Prime Minister’s statement and Ashley
stated the views of Caucus on
the subject. There were no other
speeches and the motion was carried.
Senator Morrow, of the Peace Council,
didn’t take the opportunity of giving
the Senate his opinion, though a week
earlier he tried to get —unsuccessfully—
the Launceston Trades Hall council to
pass a motion protesting against “the
sending of any instruments of war to
Malaya.” On that occasion he compared
the Korean business to a squabble be-
tween Launceston and Hobart, said it
didn’t concern Australia, and that we
should “let them conduct their own
business.”
Despite a strong move within the
“Labor” party to put Senator Armstrong
in the job, Gordon Brown was re-elected
president of the Senate. In the
Caucus ballot he beat Armstrong by
six votes, and at the actual Chamber
election he was unopposed. Brown has
been president of the Senate for seven
years—a record beaten by only one of his
nine predecessors. Senator Givens pre-
sided over the Senate for 13 years, Paddy
Lynch for six and the first president,
Richard Chaffey Baker, for five-and-a-
half years. None of the others went be-
yond a three-year term.
The Senate over which Brown now
presides is not quite the same as the one
which rejected the Anti-Communist Bill
last month, but there’s not much differ-
ence. Of the 18 Senators swbrn-in last
week only three are newcomers ; they are
Benn (“Labor,” Q.), Henty (Lib., Tas.),
and Vincent (Lib., W.A.). “Labor” now
has 34 Senators instead of 36 and the
Government numbers have increased
from 24 to 26.
The Federal Government will clap a
levy of p.c. on wool sold after August
26 (wool on sheepskins included), will
use i p.c. of it to replace the old \ p.c.
levy used for financing the Australian
part of JO. and wool-use promotion, and
bung the other 1\ p.c. into a fund “for
use in a new scheme of reserve prices
for wool.” There isn’t any such scheme
as yet, and if one doesn’t come to light
by September 30, 1951, the cash will be
refunded to growers. Chances of a
“reserve-price scheme” being evolved by
then can be assessed from the fact that
only about a third of N.S.W. growers
voted for “stabilisation,” South Australian
growers are against it on the word of
their Wool Council delegate, and growers
generally are divided on the whole idea.
The shadowy scheme seems to propose
to fix prices well below current auction
prices, buy in when auction prices fall
below the reserve, feed the wool back
when prices rise, which would “tend to
modify rising price movements,” and at
the same time preserve the open-auction
system. There are people who seem to
think this can be done without opening
the way for Government control of wool.
The hibernating instinct is influencing
not only Federal politicians ; most of the
State Parliaments are also closed down
for the winter. Another explanation could
be that never bSfore have the margins be-
tween Government and Opposition parties
in the various Assemblies been so narrow.
Hanlon’s team has apparently not yet re-
covered from its May victory; McGirr,
with a majority of one (unendorsed at
that) after appointing a Speaker, is not
anxious to face Parliament until the ’flu
season is over; in Melbourne the
Twelve Farmers of Spring-street are seek-
ing respite from the crudities of debate
while they prepare a legislative pro-
gramme that will meet with the
approval of their “Labor” sponsors;
the Westralian talking-shop is also
in recess. Playford’s Parliament, in
holding a winter session, is running
the risk of being labelled a black-
leg House by the other States, and down
in Hobart,, where the Cosgrove Govern-
ment is one short of a majority. Parlia-
ment is going along very politely under
an arrangement which permits both sides
to say as much as they like as long as they
are not rude to each other.
Queensland Liberals start their annual
conference tomorrow, and will consider
a move for complete amalgamation with
the Agrarians, who have yet to be heard
■ from on the subject. Another interest-
ing notion is to put in the policy a plan
to split each Queensland Federal electo-
rate into four State seats and use Federal
machinery for compiling the rolls. This,
of course, to upset the Labor seat dis-
tribution, but the job will be to get Labor
out of office beforehand.
Comrade Englart, one of the top ring
of Communists carrying out the gang’s
industrial sabotage, lost his job as sec-
retary of Brisbane branch of the Water-
siders on a ballot which put O. L.
Meredith, A.L.P. candidate, in by 1154 to
1091. It’s a bad time for Englart to be
outed, what with the Communist peace
drive in Korea and the likelihood of Aus-
tralian wharfies having to be dragooned
into the “Not a man or a ship or a gun
for Korea” crusade, but he isn’t dashed.
He’s going back to wharf-lumping to
“organise his own gang and lead them
in loading .and unloading ships.” Of
course it might be a good time for Corns
to get themselves voted out of key union
jobs.
If anyone wants to get an idea of how
Commonwealth employees have multi-
plied in the past ten years all he has to
do is walk along a street, and for every
40 persons who pass count one Common-
wealth servant. If he’d made the same
walk in 1940 he’d have had to count
105 persons to find a Commonwealth
servant.
Queensland fruit - canning industry
(mainly pineapples, which are dollar-
earners in Canada) has had its worries
about tinplate eased, Canberra has
ordered a trial shipment from Japan, and
orders have been placed in America
which normally would have had to wait
until October,
In his Budget for 1949-50 Chifley (then
Prime Minister and Treasurer) estimated
that the National Welfare Fund—built
up largely by social-services taxation
would have a credit balance of
£121,205,011 on 30/6/’5O, after meeting
all social-services charges. On this —and
other things, but mainly on this—Fadden
promised substantial tax reductions if a
Menzies-Fadden Government was re-
turned. Now Fadden has said that the
money was applied by the Chifley
Government to redeem Treasury bills
used to finance the 1939-45 war, and sub-
stantial tax-relief cannot be expected.
Either Fadden knew this before the
December election or Chifley was using
the money for that purpose without tell-
ing anybody about it. Taxpayers may
choose for themselves the answer.
L. B. Pearson, Canadian External
Affairs Minister, reporting on the
Colombo Conference:
Our chairman, Mr. Senanyake, Prime
Minister of Ceylon, introduced a very good
idea. When discussion became a little,
shall I say, over-zealous, or when we began
to get a little tired and lost some of our
patience, it was the invariable practice of
our chairman to bang the gavel and say:
“We will now have a cup of tea.” That
happened, normally, three or four times a
day, and it proved to be a very useful
expedient indeed. I think it might be intro-
duced at Lake Success.
And Canberra,
The Tasman Sea is a fairly wide stretch
of water, but ships which cross it find
that the tactics of the Red-inspired
wharfies on the two sides of the ocean do
not differ much. The other day the port
of Wellington was thrown idle and 38
ships held up through the refusal of the
watersiders to accept a decision of the
Waterfront Industry Authority, the New
Zealand equivalent of our Stevedoring
Industry Commission, Men unloading
carbon-black from the steamer Myrtle-
bank claimed an extra 2s. an hour dirt-
money ; the port committee decided that
as special clothing and washing facilities
had been provided a rate of Is. met the
case. When the wharfies walked off the
ship the W.I.A. declared her a “prefer-
ence” vessel and called for labor. Result
—a stop-work meeting, a cease-work
motion carried “without dissent” and a
whole port tied up. The picture is one
all too familiar on this side of the
Tasman.
Canberra has abolished the superphos-
phate subsidy of £2 ss. a ton, which has
cost the taxpayers about £3 million a
year since the Chifleys bunged it on in
1941. In view of wheat and general
land-product prices, the abolition is about
five years overdue.
As with jet-propulsion, Britain —denied
U.S. secrets on atomic power—is now
credited with the first atomic warships.
Lord Fraser recently announced that
“atom-propelled submarines were in the
experimental stage” in the R.N., which
is reported to have the secret of harness-
ing a small atomic pile providing per-
petual power to ordinary ships’ turbines.
Steam-engines, radar, jets, atom-engines,
penicillin—the British are a decadent lot,
and it is no wonder that Communists
regard them as finished.
At least a section of “Labor’s” thought
is swinging in the direction of incentive
payments. Armidale branch of the A.L.P.
is proposing to Annual Conference “That
branch secretaries receive a greater re-
muneration for their services in order
that the best talent be available.” This
is rather a blow to those who thought
branch secretaries worked for sheer love
of the Cawse. It contrasts, for instance,
with the spirit displayed in this
appeal from the King electorate: _ lsJled
That the Executive, when nomimt.n
members for the Upper House, give” r* 8
sideration to rank-and-file members of tr?'
party who give their all to the movement 6
.There is no truth in the rumor that
Mr. Menzies, while abroad, will ask tb
English to refer the Rugby League
in Australia to U.N.O. for a decision
to who is the aggressor. **
Work is about to start on another pine
line, this time about 60 miles long to
take Murray water from Mannum to the
Mt. Lofty ranges, thence by gravitation
to supply Adelaide. The line will provide
the city with 11,000 million gallons
year, and ought to get Adelaideans out
of their almost-annual water troubles
Like the 230-mile pipeline which takes
water from Morgan through the North
and round Spencer Gulf to Whyalla
supplying towns and settlements on the
way, the Mannum-Adelaide line is an
example of how South Australians use
the Murray instead of just talking about
it.
Those who are urging the United
States to declare that it will not
use the hydrogen-bomb unless it or
its allies are first attacked with it
should read Churchill’s memoirs. Dis-
cussing a similar attitude over America’s
use of the atom-bomb on Hiroshima, he
claimed that the dropping of the bomb
saved perhaps a million American and
hundreds of thousands of British casual-
ties which an invasion of the Japanese
islands would have entailed.


BACKSTAGE.
“When’s the curtain going up, Boss?"
“Steady! Let’s have another look at the house.”


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Zake”; Car-manufacturers must be
at their wits’ ends to devise new gadgets
for the interiors of their products that
will make for the added comfort of pas-
sengers and driver, yet not one of them
seems to have thought of a rear-vision
mirror which, when mucked around with
“The wife's tickled pink with it."
by either the woman passenger in the
front seat to make certain her lipstick is
going on where it was intended, or the
woman driver who adjusts it so that she
can see herself fullface when she glances
into it from time to time, will snap back
into its correct position as soon as there
is no human reflection in it. This is par-
ticularly important for the woman driver
pulling out from a kerb rather than the
man driver: he prefers to poke his head
out his window and* see what’s coming
behind. Because she is usually strapped
up in unyielding whalebone and whatnot
the woman driver, finding it hard to
screw around in the seat, puts a touching
faith in the r.v. mirror, often with
disastrous results.
* * * *
“Pawang”: It seems that the last
chapter in the Kyneton “Whose Baby?”
case has been closed by the refusal of
the Privy Council to give Mrs. Morrison
leave to appeal against the High Court
decision in favor of Mrs. Jenkins; the
children remain in their respective house-
holds. The -position is that Mrs.
Morrison believes that Nola and Johanne,
born within two minutes of one another,
were mixed up and she has Nola, the
baby of Mrs. Jenkins, and Mrs. Jenkins
has her baby Johanne. Justices Latham,
McTiernan and Barry believe the same
as Mrs. Morrison and ruled that Nola
should be reared by Mrs. Morrison.
Justices Rich, Dixon, Herring, Lowe and
Fullager made no ruling on the issues of
parentage, but believe that the disputed
child should remain with the Jenkinses in
the interests of her own welfare. Justice
Webb considered that the onus-of-proof
of mixing had not been discharged by
the Morrisons, but that if it had been the
child should have been turned over to
its rightful parents. The Privy Council
president. Lord Symonds, said that
although he had dealt with many cases
of disputed parentage this one was unique
in his experience, inasmuch as there was
a contest between two people for
possession of a child for whom they both
had the same natural affection. The
truth is that for the emotional aspect of
the problem there is no solution, legal
or otherwise. If the children were now
changed over it might be possible to
convince Nola’s head that Mrs, Morrison
was indeed her mother, but it would be
wellnigh impossible to convince her heart
owing to the enormous number of
associations that have been built up be-
tween her and her previous parents dur-
ing her five years’ sojourn with them. So
there would be a conflict between her
beliefs and feelings, and it is conflicts that
produce neuroses. Hence reunion with
her mother could be to the child’s dis-
advantage. The same thing, of course,
applies to Johanne. One can’t help feel-
ing a sympathy for Mrs. Morrison, who
believes and feels that Nola is her baby,
but can take no part in her future educa-
tion uoic-s the two families agree to live
together; the only solace that can be
offered is for her to concern herself with
the child’s welfare and forget possession
—admittedly as difficult as for a lover to
be happy because his girl has been made
happy by another.
* * * *
“J.W.”: “Clooter’s” recital of his joys
and sorrows on the Inky Way (B.
14/6/’5O) must have stirred fellow-feel-
ing in many hearts. It may comfort them
to remember that the road was just as
corrugated for many if not most of the
literary immortals. Homer begged his
bread in the cities which later fought for
the possession of his bones. Carlyle
hawked Sartor Resartus around for 11
years before he found a buyer. The
Rubaiyat was remaindered at a penny a
copy before it was hailed as a master-
piece. I have wept to see a pile of
Glugs of Gosh offered at remnant price,
The list could be extended indefinitely,
And yet it would seem that one more
freelance is bom every minute. If it
were not so the world would be de-
pendent on dog-eared classics, and would
revert to the condition of the Dark Ages
described by Teufelsdrockh: “Then
“ I'll go an abundance in hearts, girls."
i
picture in fancy all future generations of
mankind, wending their way like an
endless host through the darkness of un-
discovered time, each with a hom lantern
in his hand, providing no light to his
neighbors: with in front a few lamps of
glass.”
* * * *
“Clooter”: My missus is normally a
kindly woman sans bitterness or vindic-
tiveness, so I was rather astonished the
other morning to hear her suddenly
exclaim, “Good on you. General Mac-
Arthur. Stamp every dashed North
Korfean flat. Give the little yellow pests
all they’re looking for.” I bent an
admonitory eye upon her and said “Here,
here. This won’t do. It isn’t like you to
be bloodthirsty.” “Bloodthirsty! ” she
echoed wildly. “Bloodthirsty! Listen,
you. They’ve just unrationed tea, and if
you think I w a nt to start all over again—
clothes, butter, tea, sugar, petrol and the
rest, with blackmarkets and all that —
and you growling about no beer and no
cigarettes and having to go and fight in
Wn!!:! a ” d , anc f stand , up t 0 , sbop '
a STS
wardens tramping over my garden
and manpower officials calling and have
to carry round ration-books and identity-
cards and be robbed by taxi-drivers and
pushed out of trams and scared in black-
outs and all the rest of it just because a
mob of silly Chinese Communists break
out and” But by then I was on my
way to work.
* * * ♦
“G.A.”: During the floods two parties
of men in jeeps made ineffectual attempts
to reach a flood-bound dwelling near
Goondiwindi occupied by a lone woman.
When road attempts failed a constable
and another man made an attempt by
boat, having to row and tow the boat
over swirling waters and against a strong
current. They eventually reached the
house, but the lady declined to leave ;
all she wanted was a headache-powder.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Among the sporting and
social scenes depicted by brewery artists
and placed on Sydney pubs to prove that
w£!ii E betAe F, s ° cial ass f A a better
footballer, cricketer, golfer, hockeyist,
S ° r
other s beer is one on the Bristol Arms,
out Rozelle way. This shows three
horses in a. stirring finish before a wildly-
excited crowd. If it’s a N.S.W. crowd,
which it probably is, since it’s a N.S.W
pub advertising N.S.W. beer, it has a
right to be excited, for the nags are run-
ning to their left, whereas on Sydney
courses they career to their right. Why
this should be I don’t know, because, foot-
runners, racing motor-cars, dirt-track
riders, trotters and racing greyhounds in
Sydney all run to their left on circular or
oval tracks. It’s my belief the N. S.
Welsh racing clubs do it deliberately to
trick the backward Victorians, whose
punters do their cash on leftward-running
oat-burners.
* * * *
“Beau Forte”: Up before the Beak on
a charge of riding a bike without a light,
a New Australian had thoughts of what
happened to him under German rule for
the same sort of thing. But bef
case was called another New
who couldn’t speak English came hf
the Bench, and the bicycle offend be * ore
engaged as interpreter. When hf r Was
case was heard he was fined 10s fn °^ n
ing without a light, then received 1
for his services as interpreter— a nrfi ‘
£1 out of his first clash with ~o £
law. Australian
“Aestur”: The bloke next to me in th*
hardware-shop asked for a half-inch bra«
tap. It cost him six-and six J? 88
” he said Shocking
“You think wbatk ii tiT V 1 rePhed-
° T( ! k ,^ hats ™ f the mabn g of that
tap * Ats brass ; that means zinc and
copper. They’ve got to be mined, the
copper „ ore l bas to be roasted, smelted
~ nd rcnned, and the zinc ore crushed,
doated, roasted, dissolved and electrically
deposited. They have to be alloyed. That
Aap s S°t five parts to it—some of them
cast ’ . some threaded. They’ve to be
ma chined, assembled and the gland
P acke d so there are no leaks. The manu-
Aacture k the wholesaler and the retailer
S £ t a profit. And yet you can buy it
* or six-and-six! Darned cheap, I call it.
w h a t it’d cost if you made it your-
this time I was at my front-
-Bate and the other bloke was probably
at . b 9 me fitting his new tap, and still
thinking how expensive it .was.
* * * *
“X.S.”; The Law’s long ears came
into action at Bendigo the other day when
"I" 6 «
ba y m § faued to stop at a stop-sign. The
police had alread y booked 100 persons
for tbe same misdemeanor, and 34 were
U P f° r sentence on this day. After half
the number had been convicted and been
fined 20s. to 30s. a village Hampden con-
tended that the sign didn’t fulfil the regu-
lations, inasmuch as letters on such signs
should be 7in. high. The p.m. and a
policeman went to the intersection and
measured the letters. One turned out to
be one-sixteenth of an inch short,
Charges dismissed against 17.
*’* * *
“Hamfat”- The mice* of theatre nro-
Hamtat * ! he pnces oi
fnmmts may have gone up, but it is a
Ion 8 tlme smce * he y were frec
21/6/’5O). Yet at one time “running the
programmes” was a profitable business,
My old friend “Doctor” John Henry
Jenkins for years had a contract with
j. c. Williamson for supplying Her
Majesty’s. He filled them with ads.; and
i we u remember his indignation when
“ Xhe Firm » which got the programmes
free began to c h a ree 3d. for them.
had other similar ad. ventures,
rr. r.- nf . a ntiations with a
whf was muSig a
bar d-boiled citiz n tba t
c , ha ' n of tailoring-shops. Snips
jj. h ? " as « ,ven fre = “S coSsider
p acianum opening bei might
takm * s P. a f. m (Jo r oo£-advertismg_ n
f ot tbe tickets, but when J
Aor the ad - he demurred that
not be as big a crowd on n *| xt
a nd suggested more free passes, a
time Jenkins called he still nesiwi. »
Saturday night would naturally
crowd; but he would like to n
look-in on a week night. The cr °Y < ' 1
so good that time that Jenkins went a s
with confidence to collect the ad. *
sorry, Mr. Jenkins,” said the tocK-si v
magnate; “I’ve been taking the rn
over with my wife and we both ie
sort of advertising would be no
us.” The tailor later amassea a
fortune; Jenkins was not surprised.
THE BARBER OF SYDNEY.
The N. S. Wales Hairdressers’ Licensing Act
abolishes private hairdressing schools in favor of
technical colleges, prohibits free haircuts for fellow-
employees, and establishes an annual licence-fee of
. s * „ a , ,9 arber - Haircuts now cost 2s. 3d., shaves
Is. 6d. ’
“Way
For the barbers of Sydney!” I holler.
Make way!”
They
Get a licence to shave for a dollar.
They say.
Ah, to be a barber
Around Sydney Harbor,
Clipping all day!
.Yea,
The world takes off its hat to him, also its
collar,
For a
Minimum haircut of two-and-a-trey!
All he’ll acknowledge is technical colleges
As hagiologies of his great art;
a e , won connive at tuition in private,
And people who give it are bidden depart;
a e j W ? nma^e a practice of hacking the cactus
And fail to exact his set one-and-a-zack,
For, gratis, to shave a companion comb-waver
Is wicked behayior, it says in the Ack;
But they ve left his resources of horses for
courses
And hair-raising ointments his wisdom en-
dorses , . .
Ah, to be a barber
Around Sydney Harbor,
Talking all day!
To be a cosmopolite,
Liberal-Laborite,
Bibulous verger '
And straight-going urger:
“Thin on the top, sir” , . .
“Rain should soon stop, sir” , , .
“Why not try gin, sir” ...
“Figaro’U win, sir” ... #
“Yes—Figaro.” “Figaro?” “Figaro!” “Figaro?”
‘Figaro!” “Figaro!”
“Your razor still needs honing—
I spent my spare time phoning” . . .
“Two to one Figaro; that’s all I know,
But everyone tells me he’s going to go” . . .
“What’s Figaro?”
“Two to one.”
“Ten-bob —Figaro! ”
“You’re on.”
“Figaro here, Figaro there, Figaro here, Figaro
there!
Looks a bit spare, lately, your hair —
Now, a shampoo . . . Yes, that’s true.
There! Will I oil it? Think that would spoil it?
There, sir, and thank you, sir. Next please—
that’s you.
“Ah, good old Figaro! Bravo, bravissimo!
Seen this bloke Stalin, the Generalissimo?
Look at the bush he’s got stuck in his face!
Who trims his mo? It's a bloody disgrace!”
Ah, good old Figaro! Bravo, bravissimo!
Wish we had Stalin the Generalissimo
Under some barber who works by the harbor,
here.
Bashing his ear.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Craiser”: A Melbourne artist, back
from a painting holiday in New Guinea,
held an exhibition; among those
present at the opening was an old
aunt with plenty of money. Know-
ing the old lady had rather narrow
views on the proper
subject-matter for an artist,
he screened her from the
only nude in the exhibi-
tion. The show over, the
manageress told him that
only one purchase had
been made and the pur-
chaser was the old lady.
“What did she buy?”
asked the artist. “The
nude,” replied the man-
ageress. “She’s a bit short-
sighted and thought it was
a missionary.”
* * *
“Muskeen”: Sir Charles
Dilke’s name’ (B. 21/6/’5O)
achieved more than a
mere mention in a divorce
case. He was co-respon-
dent in an action brought
by a fellow-M.P., one of
his closest friends. The
lady confessed her mis-
deeds in court, the wronged husband
got his divorce, but as Sir Charles
was not put in the box the
petition against him was dismissed.
In order to clear his name, he petitioned
that the decree nisi be rescinded, and in
this second trial submitted himself for
cross-examination. During the “clari-
fication” of his name not only was it
established that the charge was correct,
hut also that he had had five separate
mistresses, two of them servants in his
own house, and had had affairs with a
mother and her daughter.
♦ * * ♦
“Cauboy”: The Melbourne critic who
remarked that the music of “Lilac Time”
sounded “rather tinny” fortunately did
not have to face Schubert after he had
written his notice ; but an up-and-coming
young critic on a Melbourne daily didn’t
have the same luck when he wrote of a
visiting violinist that his playing of parts
of a concerto lacked sensitiveness. The
fiddler was Campqli, and he was asked
at . a party if he would like to meet the
c ntic. “Oh, very interesting. I believe
y°U said something about my playing,”
sa id Campoli. “I would like to know
your standard of comparison. Perhaps
u was Kreisler.” “No, it wasn’t he,”
the critic. “Oh, no, of course not.
be would have been before your time,
rhen perhaps it was the great Heifetz?
What a magnificently sensitive player he
The critic confessed he hadn’t heard
nun. “Ah, then, it was Menuhin.” “No,
heard him,” said the critic,
I see; you must have heard the
records,” remarked the violinist.
Bo : To the unthinking, the sight of
a council engineer checking with his
circular tape-measure the height of a
newiy - laid kerbstone would imply
tnat his action was a reflection of his
council s consideration for the stepper-
uppers and stepper-downers. This is not
so. He is simply making sure that the
door of any empty parked car will, when
opened, clear the top of the kerb by an
eighth to a quarter of an inch, so that
when passengers step in their weight will
jam the bottom of the door on to the
kerbstone, necessitating everybody getting
ol ‘ t 80 as to free the door. I suggest that
when the next depression comes unem-
ployed, instead of shifting sand from one
place to another so as to have the next
wind blow it all back again, should be
put to the really useful work of chip-
ping an inch or so off all city and-
suburban kerbs.
* * * *
Nakhoda”; Reported from Darkest
Africa that one Frantisek Foit, a Czech
sculptor, has been banished from the Bel-
for causin S a riot amongst
10,000 natives. He went round modelling
the heads of natives, and apparently his
sculptures looked extraordinarily like the
heads on a popular brand of corned-
beef, and the natives got the idea that he
was going to turn them into corned-beef.
Then another rumor got going that the
“Well, all right, Harry; but no chopping off the skull in the morning."
way he obtained his sculptures was to
kidnap his models, cut their heads off and
stuff them. This suggests that he be-
longs to the photographic school of
realistic art, though one could hardly
expect the unsophisticated nigs to be able
to see the difference between an impres-
sion of nature and the mechanical repro-
duction of it when the highest art
authorities can’t. When Rodin sent his
“Age of Bronze” to the Paris Salon he
was accused of having cast it from the
living figure because it seemed so lifelike ;
it was only when he gave a practical
demonstration of his extraordinary
capacity to model that he won the respect
of his critics.
* * * *
“Bethune”: On June 27, 1850, there
appeared in Sydney the first issue of the
“Freeman’s Journal” ; eight years ago the
Journal amalgamated with the “Catholic
Press” to fopn the “Catholic Weekly,”
which a fortnight ago published a 32-page
supplement to commemorate the cen-
tenary of Catholic journalism in New
South Wales. The “Freeman” was
founded by Archdeacon McEncroe and
the first copy was printed by Jeremiah
Moore. Early editors included Thomas
Butler, Richard O’Sullivan, William Bede
Dailey, Daniel Henry Deniefiy, J. D.
Delany, E. W. O’Sullivan, J. B. Blakeney
and Hugh Conant; and the paper num-
bered among its contributors such names
as Charles Duffy, Patrick Jennings, Pro-
fessor Badham, Fred Bloomfield, Justice
R. E. O’Connor, Hugh Mahon and a host
of others. Henry Kendall at one time
wrote verse and literary criticisms for
the “Freeman,” and verses from the pens
of Charles Harpur, Henry Lawson, John
Farrell, Victor Daley, Rod Quinn and
E. J. Brady appeared in its columns from
time to time. The Centenary Supplement
contains a detailed history of the three
papers and of the notables connected with
them and many extracts of historic in-
terest from the files. There is the Kiama
Ghost Story, concerning Henry Parkes
and O’Farrell, the man who shot the
Duke of Edinburgh; W. B. Dailey’s
famous speech on Christian Education;
Robert Louis Stevenson’s defence of
Father Damien; Father Timoney’s dis-
patches from the Boer War; Joseph
Cusack’s review of John O’Brien’s Around
the Boree Log —which appeared before
the book did; an eyewitness account of
the end of the Kelly gang. Altogether
the supplement is a worthy record of the
first hundred years of Catholic journalism
in the Mother State.
* * * *
“Kelms”: “Chips” would lose some
of his complacency anent the indispensa-
bility of the building-tradesman (B.
31/5/’5O) if he spent a while in W.A.
Under the Housing Commission’s self-
help scheme, permits to build are issued
to home-seekers who are prepared to
erect their dwellings with unskilled labor.
Quite a number who availed themselves
of the opportunity have discovered an
unsuspected flair for carpentry and brick-
laying. When a hitch occurs the amateur
has only to inspect a house in course of
erection and most of the professional
secrets are revealed. This can be done
at weekends, while the tradesmen are
taking time off —they won’t work legi-
timate overtime—to earn five quid a day
from some desperate case who can’t or
won’t do the job himself. Tradesmen
are taking this evidence of their scarcity
as proof of their value, but they’d do
well to sock those fivers away somewhere
safe. This house-hunger won’t last for
ever, and when it eases there’ll be a
dearth of those repair jobs that kept
many tradesmen employed in other
days. I’ll admit that the amateur often
doesn’t do as good a job as the skilled
tradesman can. But neither does the
skilled tradesman.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: There is a type of human
who can’t face life without a radio or
something similar. He switches on the
set before bringing in the morning milk,
and pushes the button up again after
tossing the cat out at night. A job with-
out a continuous amplifier would be un-
endurable to him ; and he couldn’t think
of partaking of a hamburger and coffee
without investing a bob in dehydrated
music. When he goes picnicking he has
to do something to stave off the terrible
silence, so the portable wireless goes with
him. It is lugged on to the railway-
station, carted into the train, humped
aboard the ferry, dragged into the bus —
for 10 hours it is a bigger burden than
the Old Man of the Sea, and, unlike the
rest of the picnic. luggage, it doesn’t get
lighter after lunch. Yet the owner seems
quite cheerful about making himself a
packhorse to the thing. But accustomed
as I have become to unexpected strident
voices suddenly bursting forth in the
midst of peaceful surroundings, occasion-
ally I still strike a new aspect of the
affliction. Walking home on a dark
night I was startled by a voice that
suddenly blared out: “And two lengths
behind comes ” There wasn’t a house
within 100 yards. Yes, you’ve guessed
it. Out of the darkness came an over-
coated figure ; in his right hand he carried
an object by a handle. As he strode past
the raucous voice hollered: “And
Skinnylegs is coming fast; he’ll ”
I’m still wondering whether the fellow
had a few bob going at the trots, or had
just bought the portable and didn’t know
how to turn it off.
* * * *
“Irving”: When the Sunshine Express
decanted its quota of New Australians at
a North Queensland sugar-siding an
efficient-looking gentleman in sun helmet
ushered the Government’s raw material
into a batch and went to work checking
off strange-sounding names with a
lengthy list. He finished with one man
over—a silent fellow seemingly not in
the least perturbed that his name had not
been included on the official list. Smil-
ing bonhomie and complete uncompre-
hension met questions asked of those
listed and accounted for, so he turned
to the seeming gatecrasher and waved
him to join the rest of the group. The
phlegmatic one,‘who had hitherto viewed
the whole business with lordly detach-
ment, rejoined spiritedly: “Not on your
life, mate. I gave away cane-cutting and
bought this taxi years ago.”
* * * *
. “Sackville St.”: But wasn’t Lord Dor-
chester’s romance (B. 7/6/’5O) the very
antithesis of “love at first sight”? He
proposed to the girl of his choice, was
refused, then married her younger sister
because he heard of that young lady’s
rebuke; “The more fool you; I’d jump
at the chance of marrying him.” As
heart-throb novelists depict “love at first
sight” the hero sees the girl, is dazzled by
her beauty and decides there and then
that she is the only girl in the world for
him. He pursues her through trials,
troubles, rebuffs and disasters, but
triumphs in the last chapter. Of the two
types of romance I’d have my money on
Lord Dorchester’s brand as being, the
more likely to endure through the years.
If the girl who turned him down thought
he was “the best and kindest man in the
world” he must have been a pretty decent
bloke; and the girl who snapped him up
on the rebound obviously held him in
very high regard.. Truly a solid basis on
which to build a happy life’s partnership.
But the swain who is intoxicated by a
damsel’s dazzling beauty must feel some-
what let down if he finds she has. a speak-
ing voice like a crow, wears mudpacks to
bed, sleeps with hair set in “butterfly
curlers” and parks her teeth in a tumbler.
* * * *
“Dentonio”: St. Beuve knew his
Voltaire when he remarked that Voltaire
“falsified facts according to his pleasure,
and lied with the deplorable facility
which was his habit” (B. 7/6/’5O). A
case in point is provided by his life of
Charles XII of Sweden, which a great
authority on Scandinavian history,
Nisbet Bain, terms “a romance.” A
• characteristic example from it of
Voltaire’s tendency to sacrifice truth to
the coining of a glib phrase was his
comment on the raising on Corfu by the
Venetian Government of a statue to
General Schullemberg, who defended the
island against the Turks. “None but
republics confer such honors. Kings do
not give rewards.” To anyone with even
an elementary knowledge of history this
statement is laughable.
* * * ♦
“Grise”: Agree with “X.S.” (B.
28/6/ ’5O) that the behavior of the Mel-
bourne crowd after the Sunday-afternoon
explosion was good, but I wonder
whether he can explain how it is
the same cannot always be said of road
accidents? There are always unselfish
helpers, of course, but looting is not un-
known. I knew one elderly victim who
was robbed of a wallet and 30 pounds
while he lay unconscious after a bus
smash.
* * * *
“Hope Bay”: Police never there when
wanted? All right, how’s this? A
sergeant and constable of the Midland
Junction (W.A.) police-station had a night
call to an accident some miles away. A
utility had crashed into a motor-wagon
half-way up a fairly steep hillside. The
Johns got to the scene about two and a
half hours after the crash, and had just
started to do their stuff when another job
was served up to them. A truck loaded
with about 15 tons of wheat approached
and, while trying to pass them, tipped
over into a culvert ditch.
QUITE A CERTAINTY.
ijyely interest in civic affairs is an almost
Wisnenffablo preliminary to a Parliamentary
%S’-~Mdbourne “Age.”
ul <rnt bis Start, as many do,
Bv whingeing of the rates he paid;
The benefits, he claimed, were few,
And by their cost were far outweighed.
The aldermen, he said, were swayed
«v selfish motives, like as not.
B what oared they it the roads weren’t made?
And so he kept up. the tirade,
Under the collar getting hot.
The earbashed sought relief Said they:
‘‘Why not put up yourself, old man?”
And so the germ took hold one day
As easily, of course, it can).
For alderman, perforce, he ran,
Vanning with much enthusiasm.
His street-campaigning he began
By promising a Master Plan
To bridge the council’s works-plan chasm.
Spellbound, they handed him their votes,
On the old principle that he’d
Re no worse than the other goats
—And they were goats, as all agreed;
While they were willing to concede
He might be better. So he came
To take his seat upon his steed
The Master Plan. To “give a lead”;
And who could have a worthier aim?
In time, of course, he rose to Mayor,
With an allowance twice the size
Enioyed by him who’d left the Chair
That’s nothing strange, as you’d surmise.
The rates, he urged, would have to rise,
Some services be sacrificed.
After a few half-hearted tries
His Master Plan to organise
The thing he quietly, gladly “diced.”
Not that he didn’t get things done.
Why! Any ratepayer would attest
The street the Mayor lived in was one
Whose surface was the very best.
Also (’twas said) at his behest,
Regardless, too, of all expense,
Streets (after his) to be top-dressed
Included homes which were possessed
By those with Certain Influence.
With such a sound, well-tried technique,
His talents sought a wider sphere;
So what more natural than to seek
A Parliamentary career?
Again he won. This brought no cheer
Of any sort to favored friend,
To whom it must seem very clear
That all his usefulness would here
Come to a very certain end.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“8.A.K.”: If there are no expressions
in a dog’s eyes except those conceived by
my “poetic imaginings” (B. 28/6/’5O), I
must suffer from a pleasant form of
hallucination. But “Curate’s Egg” doesn’t
put up a very convincing argument to
prove the point. Admittedly a dog’s eye
is “simply a normal organ of vision,”
but so is the human optic, and surely
“C.E.” doesn’t contend that it is incap-
able of reflecting emotion! It is true,
too, that the change in an animal’s eye
after death is due to the “stilling of the
bloodstream,” but doesn’t that also
apply to human eyes? Perhaps “bared
fangs, wagging tail,” etc., may assist to
convey the dog’s mood to the beholder,
but many a mong has got half my lunch
simply by standing in front of me and
doing nothing else but stare with plead-
ing eyes. And if a sick canine doesn’t
tell you about it with his eyes, then I
must be a victim of illusions. Still, I
feel more like shouting a beer than
wrangling with a chap who claims I have
“poetic imaginings” ; but “C.E.” would
have a job to convince one bloke that
poetic imagery is latent in my soul. That
bloke writes the Answers to Corre-
spondents.
* * * *
“Carver”; Some of the most con-
spicuous inhabitants of the semi-desert
inland areas of Australia are the birds
of prey. Around these S.A. parts, where
there is not a tree big enough for a perch
in miles, a pair of wedgetails own a strip
of country about three miles by two.
There the great birds dominate the sky,
or, at rest, make humped silhouettes on
"It'd been better if you’d called me a bit earlier."
the boulders at the top of a ridge. Rang-
ing the gibbers and the watercourses, the
peregrine and the black falcons are lords
of all the smaller life. Every bluebush
rise or watercourse flat has its dainty
kestrels, endlessly riding thermal currents,
death on mice and quite willing to de-
scend to grasshoppers. The wary grey
falcon boundary-rides the creeks, water-
courses and every patch of bindi-eye that
might hide a lizard. And even in town-
ships you find the fork-tailed kite at his
eternal scavenging. But these lords of
creation have met with a worse evil even
than a Socialist Government. The
pigeon-racing craze has spread to the
bush, and the falcons have heard about
it Many pigeon-men present an
anomaly: they are bird-fanciers who
know nothing about birds. To them, any-
thing with a hooked beak is “a hawk.”
And any “hawk” is a pigeon-killer.
Therefore, all “hawks” are to be shot on
sight. And the dreary slaughter goes on,
from the wedgetail who couldn’t catch a
crippled pigeon to the kestrel whose
mind is on mice ; from the buzzard who
lives upon rabbits to the kite who dines
upon scraps. To protect a few of the
most stupid birds in creation the
pigeoneer kills out some of the most
majestic of all birds, masters of the air,
bold, wise, lightning-in-feathers. But it’s
a great day for the rabbits, the grass-
hoppers and the foraging caterpillars
which plague the bindi-eye flats.
* * * *
“Martin Gale”: Dan, a stockman
from a C.Q. cattle-station, had been
missing. Five days before he had set out
on a cross-country trip to his brother’s
property —a two-day ride for a bush-
man of his experience. The preliminary
mild anxiety in the town gradually
assumed the pro-
portions of a
community
affair, and on the
fifth day the local
“bell - wether,”
Jackson from the
estate-agency, or-
ganised half a
dozen search-
parties, all of which returned on the
following day with nothing to report.
Then someone with a flair for drama
thought of Flourbag, ex-police black-
tracker, now living by himself in a shack
by the creek. After a little persuasion
and a lot of rum Flourbag borrowed a
horsp and set out alone. Next day he
reined-up outside the pub and cryptically
reported to the crowd gathered there:
“Him all right, saw his cookin’-fire.” To
the question “Well, where is he, you old
soak?” Flourbag replied by holding up
a scrub-turkey with a “Me bin too blurry
busy trackin’ this pfeller.” Three or
four hours later Dan hove into sight, a
good haul of dingo-scalps explaining his
decision to camp out and make some
quick money instead of visiting his
brother.
* * * ♦
“Betcha”: When I hear a mild excuse
that stops blokes playing football, I
think of the teams of the mining days.
Any old-timers remember the Long Gully
(Vic.) team? Most of the players worked
at the battery, and, as this ran non-stop
for three shifts, it meant players could
only get off on Saturday mornings by
swapping a shift with some non-player.
Result was that many of the team
knocked off at eight o’clock Saturday
morning after 16 hours straight, tore
home to change and catch the old four-in-
hand that left early to transport players
and any barrackers who could find hang-
ing-on space. Winter’s four-in-hand drag,
old-timers. Remember? Who drove it
in your day? George Winter, Alf Brown,
Quinny? The roads were steep and all
hands must walk up the worst hills, but
the drag load was always at the visited
ground in time for the match. And
sonny, was that football! The bawling
barrackers, charging madly up and down
the boundary with the play, ended the
day nearly as exhausted as the foot-
bailers. Then followed an all-night
session at the pub, and the four-in-hand
pulled out next morning on the return
journey, to get the blokes back in time
for work.
“This is the line they're advertising."
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver dragged his
eyes from the town track as I bawled at
him for the branding-iron. A few
minutes and he was again staring towards
the track. Evidently something on' his
mind. “Ain’t seen Sandy go past lately,
have y’?” he asked presently. “No.”
“ ’Bout time he went in again f'r sup-
plies,” drawled the old bloke. We
shoved the iron on a couple more beasts.
“Dunno whether this is the week old
Charlie goes down t’ the post-office, I
s’pose?” he tried again. “No.” “Aw,
well” He turned and attacked the
job with fresh energy and purpose.
“Better get this over an’ go inter town
meself,” he decided. “What for?”
“Tea.” Expertly he edged several more
beasts into the smaller yard. “But we're
not out of tea yet.” “I know,” he
replied. “But look at this.” He hauled
a dilapidated ration-card from his pocket
and displayed the four remaining
coupons. I explained that they wouldn’t
expire for some time. “No, but y’ know
what it’s like runnin’ out o' tea, Sol,”
he reminded. “Gripes, it’s flamin’ awful.
And I was readin’ the other night there’s
a chance the Govermint might do away
with tea-rationin’ soon, an’ don’t y’ see,
if they do, these here tickets'll be no
good. Wasted. Can’t risk the chance
o’ losin’ ’em.”
* * * *
“Zake”: The motorist had stopped to
ask directions, had evinced so intelligent
an interest in Dad Fifer’s observations on
rural problems that Dad had invited him
in to look over the property. The view
of the surrounding countryside was duly
admired; then he took the visitor down
and proudly displayed the big lucerne
paddock. Mollie, who had been reserve
champion Hereford at the local show,
was next visited. The milking-machines,
the bails, the fee.d-shed, the new tractor
were inspected; then the Tamworths in
their sties were given prolonged appraisal.
After shoeing the visitor the kitchen
garden Dad said: “Well, I think y’ve seen
pretty well everything that’s worth seein’
now. Come inside an I’ll give y’ a knock-
down to the missus!”
*♦- * *
“Old-timer”: Mayne came to the
station in early autumn of a good season,
when the hands hadn’t much to do except
ride lazily along the fences, inspect the
gum-trees, count the magpies and taunt
the cook. “Gripes,” said Mayne, lolling
on the hut veranda one warm afternoon,
“this’ll do me. I used t’ hear about jobs
like this, an’ now I got one.” Time
mooched along into June, and then the
weather changed. Two unusually warm
days brought a couple of inches of rain,
followed by still, humid, overcast days.
Out came the flies in their myriads, and
from dawn to dusk each day the hands
chased struck sheep, cleaned and doctored
them, turned them loose and sought
more. Footrot ran through the low pad-
docks and the shearing season loomed
ever nearer. By mid-July men, horses
and dogs were almost out on their feet,
and the boss, a shrewd psychologist who
knew the value of a break, waited until
we got in one Saturday night and then
said “Look, we’ll let everything go to-
morrow. I got some supplies an’ you
can all come up t’ the homestead
morrow an’ we’ll paint the place f °'
change.” Mayne rose up off his v
“Not on y’r flamin’ life,” he roared “p ’
chased ruddy sheep an’ maggots all 0 VC
this lousy station for seven or
weeks, Sundees an’ all, an’ now y’ exne t
a flamin’ man t’ go round slap-dashim
with a paint-pot. Y’ can stick y’r job ”
He had his swag half-rolled before we
managed to convince him what the boss
really meant.
* * * *
“Simon”: I don’t think that there is
any doubt that the word “cocky” as
applied to a farmer (B. 28/6/’5O) is de-
rived from the cockatoo, and goes back
to the passing of the Robertson Land
Act of ’6l (Free Selection Before Survey).
At the time lengths of saplings were
crossed along the alignments, and
trimmed saplings were set in the forks
about 3ft. 6in. from the ground. Logs,
stumps, etc., were then rolled underneath
the whole, making such a fence that a
cockatoo would construct if it did con-
struct a fence. It was the quickest
division that could be fixed at a period
when time was the essence of the contract.
Later the appellation was stretched to
cow cocky, poultry-cocky, etc.
* * * *
“The Bunyip”; I’m reclining by the
roadside) having a few quiet puffs while
Janie, my cow, does the right thing by
a patch of rank trefoil that overhangs
the table-drain. You’re not allowed to let
her roam
the roads
in these
parts, but
you can
hold her
by a rope
—so I’m
h o Iding
her by a
r o p e,
nominally; she won’t wander far.
The sun is dipping behind the range,
a couple of greenies and some
maggies are settling in the big gum
in front of me, Mrs. Jackson is shutting
up her chooks, and the smoke from
evening fires is settling out into a low,
level, blue blanket. I suppose the trams
are banked up for half a mile in George-
street and the horde is surging past
Young and Jackson’s into the funnel of
Flinders-street station, all soon to have
their noses stuck into their evening
papers, or their neighbor’s, as they rock
and surge on their rumbling way home.
The arguments for and agin the town-
life can go on for ever; to me it boils
down to one thing—the noise isn’t worm
it. Just noyv, the only sounds I can near
are those of Janie tearing grass a chain
away, and the low, throaty growl of my
blue heeler, curled beside me, as sne
spots McGrath’s collie making home
across the flat; and I am content. N
that all is idyllic in this sequestered glade
Another month or so and the stretcg
days will stir budding bards to a .PP r ,
their girls or The Bulletin with odes
to spring or something like that,
possibly amongst the seasonal
there will be reference to contentedl heras
whose scented breath blends wi
perfume of wildflowers. It doe' ’ h p dy
ticularly with Stinking Roger. Anybody
intending to biff the lyre to the above
tune is hereby invited to come > out a
lead Janie home. It is usually then th
with a bellyful of rank trefmk
shatters all esthetic musings witn
mighty belch.
ROCK WALLABY.
Where the gully shadows lie
Deeply blue before the sun.
In the shadow of the range
Wallaby are on the run.
Where the cliffs reach to the sky
In sudden mountains darkly strange,
Where the pine and mallee dare
To climb the jagged range
He makes his home that none will find.
The wallaby, the secret one.
Alone he runs his soakage pad,
Alone he sits when day is done;
Sits like a statue on the rocks,
His little striped face bright and wise,
And nothing stirs there that is not
Reflected in his eyes.
Is he lonely there at night
When the quilt of cloud is on?
Does he think the light blown out
If suddenly the stars are gone?
Does he mind the bitter winds
When the evening light has fled?
Does he find a cave of rocks
With a dry earth bed?
Out there the fires of stars are set,
Now frosty winter has begun,
To keep a watch at night for those
Rock wallaby upon the run.
s.a.
IRENE GOUGH.


“Shamuseen”: I saw it only once, but
the occasion was unforgettable. In the
late forenoon during a monsoonal- calm
when the ketch, in the words of Mairu,
my Torres Straits Island boss-boy,
“please ’imself, boss,” we drifted aim-
lessly. Half a mile ahead the blue, smooth
water suddenly took on a faintly pinkish
tinge which merged to a deeper hue as
we drifted imperceptibly nearer. Mean-
while the entire surface of the pinkish
aura was cut by thousands of what
seemed to be the slowly-revolving silver
sails of tiny windmills. These were soon
seen to be the majestic parabolas de-
scribed by hordes of giant trevally, which
were busy reaping a rich harvest. Not
till some hours did we drift to the edge
of the technicolored, five-fathoms-deep
patch of water. The roseate hue of the
water was caused by the presence of
myriads of small, free-swimming crabs.
* * * *
“Blime”: The new bloke was an able-
bodied cove when he went out to old
Ben’s to work, but, spotting him coming
in a few weeks later, Charlie eyed him
with interest. “If that coot ain’t got
footrot he’s half-full awready,” he re-
marked. “Wonder where he’s been.”
Tom turned to watch the awkward gait.
“Don’t sound like he’s shot,” he
muttered, as the newchum came
in and called
for drinks.
“Reckon it
must be
rheumatics or
some thin’.”
During the
months that
followed
Newie’s shuffling and wide stepping
grew more pronounced, until on one of
his town visits Charlie mentioned the
matter. “Y’ oughter see the doc. about
them rheumatics, or whatever it is,” he
suggested. “Them legs o’ yours is gettin’
worse.” “Eh? But there’s nothing wrong
with ’em,” protested the new bloke. He
eyed his feet for a minute with a
harassed expression. “Gosh, that’s it,”
he exclaimed. “Growing on me. Getting
more noticeable, is it? It’s that bare,
crawling country of old Ben’s doing it.
Think I’d better stop working for that
bloke,” he decided, “unless —yair, unless
I just step onto his blasted rabbits.”
* * * an
“Dick Turpin”: Maybe the drover’s
day is passing, though I doubt whether
motor-transport will ever supplant him
entirely further out. Apparently the
N.S.W. Government thinks he’s finished,
anyway, for it has announced that many
travelling stock-routes will be closed and
used for soldier-settlement. It may be
all right in some areas, but it would be
wise to hasten slowly. The t.s.rs, are
more than roads for travelling stock;
they are land common to everyone ; many
a man bringing his stock out of dry
country has been saved by the feed along
the routes when fodder was either not
available or beyond his purse. With
high wool prices and first-class seasons it
may seem that the t.s.rs., especially in
the mixed-farming areas, are no longer
necessary. But droughts will come again,
and prices fall; and a man who can’t
afford to send his sheep by road can
always walk them himself for the cost of
ms time and tucker. In hard times it’s
the battler who pulls through, not the
man who leaves everything in the hands
of his agent,
* * * *
‘ M.S.”: Hal was passing down the
road when he noticed old Charlie trying
to get a draft of ewes and lambs from
one paddock to another, and, with a
whistle to Champ, he went over to help.
Champ worked the jumbucks to the gate.
“Sit down,” Hal called, and the dog
dropped, while the sheep strung through.
Good dog .y’ve got/’ congratulated
Charlie. “Break him y’self? Cripes, he’s
obedient, ain’t he?” “Yair. Wouldn’t
give thank-you for a mong that ain’t,”
answered Hal, as they shut the gate on
the sheep and started up the road. “It’s
all in the training.” They yarned their
way to Charlie’s turn-off, then Hal can-
tered on. It wasn’t till chain-time, late
in the afternoon, that he missed Champ.
He whistled, called, grew worried and,
phoning old Charlie, asked him to look
for the dog out that way. An hour later
came a call from Charlie. “Hello, that
you, Hal? Yair, I found y’r dog. He’s
sittin’ down near the gate where we put
the sheep through, and the silly cow won’t
budge. Growls if I try t’ shift ’im. I
reckon y’d better come ’n’ get the blighter
y’self, before ’e takes root.” Hal was
setting out cursefully on his nine-mile
ride when the explanation hit him. He’d
forgotten to whistle, releasing Champ
from his order to sit down.
* ♦ * *
“Rooster”; Exactly how diamonds are
made in nature isn’t known; but!
we are aware that they are formed
under conditions of great heat and
pressure. Yet chemically the diamond is
the simplest of all precious stones: merely
a crystalline form of carbon. There may
be minute traces of impurities in
it, hut no trace at all of any other
element. It has puzzled scientists for
centuries how the hardness and brilliance
is obtained from the element which
gives us the graphite of a drawing-pencil
or the soot from a chimney. More than
half a century ago the French chemist
Moissan attempted to synthesize the
diamond by dissolving pure carbon in
molten iron contained in a crucible,
plunging the latter into a trough of
molten lead, which, at 326 deg. C., is suf-
ficiently cool to solidify iron. As the
outside iron cooled and shrank it exerted
enormous pressure on the still molten
core. • On dissolving the solidified iron
away with acid only a few small splinters
resulted. The secret of the, diamond’s
manufacture is still the Dame’s exclusive
property.
* * * *
“Another W.W.” reports on the sport:
So “Wasp-watcher” (B. 28/6/’5O) wants to
know whether the wasp measures his spider-
victim first and digs a hole to fit, or hunts for
a hole the right size? Well, I can assure him
he digs the hole to measure. Years ago I was
picking pears in a Renmark orchard, high trees
that, wanted ladders to clear. On a summer
morning we were at the work and I had just
shifted my steps to another tree when I saw
a minor plane, in the shape of an orange-and-
black-striped wasp an inch-and-a-half long,
sailing down the row at about the 10ft. level.
He met a spider-cable at my tree, stretching
taut, straight across the row, hanging a web,
and on meeting it he turned sharp left and
made for the tree. I was already there at one
end of the web-cable, and could see no spider,
and moved across the row to its other anchor.
So, in due course, did the wasp. I had the
advantage of some two or three minutes’ prior
reconnaissance, and had spotted the spider on
a leaf. As the wasp arrived the spider shrank
himself up to about half-size. For a brief space
the hide-and-seek went on, the spider shifting
its lurk once or twice, but the wasp found it,
and anaesthetised it in some fashion I failed to
see, picked it up and made for the ground.
The wasp then chose a hillock left by an old
furrow, and started boring into it. When he
had got about as far in as his own length he
the V !£' Q li S U t 0 Z he l e be A h u ad , le , ft
Z i
picked the spider up with two twigs and moved
it about 6ft. away. After a bit, back came
aoodTmk2a nt a n n H. a ? ap ff whcn he I found the
goods missing, and went off upon a low recon-
naissance in growing circles till he lit on the
new location. The antics when he found it
were most diverting. I construed them as (1)
whiskers) SrTST SSfcSfJt
(3) examination to discover whether it was
capable of moving again. I could not dis-
siT>
“I knew you'd get friendly after a while , Sylvia."
tinguish in the subsequent action whether the
wasp gave the bundle another dose of dope,
but it arrived at one obvious conclusion, lifted
the spider and dumped it just outside the hole.
Then, after a final look at it, he dived into the
hole and proceeded to complete the job. After
another couple of minutes he emerged, collected
the spider, and pushed it into the cave, remained
there while he (or she) presumably deposited
egg or eggs, and at length withdrew, pushed
back the spoil from the little heap in rear,
wiped his face with his feet, and took off again
into the air. The whole business lasted about
20 minutes, and fascinated two of us from start
to finish.
* * * ♦
“Bo”: Carstairs had been following
the various romances of his eldest son
Jim with the flappers of the township
with disapproval. One morning while
they were both on their way to repair
some fencing the old man tackled him on
the subject. “Now if you want a girl
that would make you a good wife you
should select someone that ain’t feather-
brained like them dolls you’ve been
kickin’ around with. Why don’t y’ try
y’r luck with old Cummings’s daughter
Bessie. The old man’s got it laid on, and
I heard he’s willin’ to settle that property
of his along the gully road on the bloke
who marries her —a rich block, that,”
“But, cripes, a man couldn’t come at
her,” protested Jim. “She’s bow-legged! ”
“Well, what’s that got to do with it?”
roared his sire, “Y’re not goin’ to take
her over any blanky hurdles, are y’?”
* * * *
“E.”: It had taken Dad Wilson much
time and language collecting materials
for his new woolshed, but by accepting
inferior goods and a few substitutes he
at length got everything. Followed six
months vainly chasing labor, then Dad
decided he’d put up the building himself.
All a bloke needed was hammer and saw
and a bit of commonsense. Dad bought
the first and second brand-new, and con-
sidered what he had of the third admir-
ably sufficient. It was a lengthy job, but
eventually the frame was up, the boards
were banged on, and he came to the roof.
Anybody could put on a roof. Dad
started at the top, nailed the sheets on
tight, then laid each lower row over-
lapping on top of the rows above.
Proudly he surveyed the result. A damn’
good shed. Only needed a bit more con-
fidence on the part of owners, claimed
Dad, and half this manpower trouble
1 would be over. That was several months
ago. When I called the other day it was
raining, and Dad was carting armfuls of
wood all over the shed looking for a dry
corner to stack it, and growling non-
stop at the “crook blasted iron they palm
off on y’ nowadays.”
# * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We knew when we
took the job on that we’d be isolated
until it finished, because it was 40 miles
from anywhere, with a lot of mountains
and things around it, but as Mat said:
“It’ll take five weeks, an’ we’ll have nilly
all our dough when we cut it out.” The
hill-cocky was feeding us, and after two
or three days we began to look at each
other, for the man had about a ton of
pumpkins stored and he led us most,y
on them. We got egg and pumpkin for
breakfast, boiled mutton and pumpkin
for dinner and again for tea, with
• , . ° •
occasional variations such as pumpkin
bubble-and-squeak, pumpkin pie and
pumpkin scones. Both of us are rather
ordinarily, and I'm a
lover of pumpkin scones, but a fortnight
of pumpkin dishes was giving us night-
mares and we were calling the boss “Old
Pumpkin,” and we reckoned, madly, that
his missus was not human, but an
animated pumpkin that he had some-
how moulded out of bush magic. By the
third week I wanted to chuck the job,
but Mat seduced me into staying with
visions of the time we’d have when we
hit the first town with our cheque. So
we cheered ourselves with thoughts of
beer and plates of steak, with heaps of
bread and butter and whacking great
hunks of fruit-cake. Thus we battled to
the end, got the cheque and got into
Swift Creek about three o’clock one
afternoon. We booked in at the pub and
went for the beer. We’d drowned the
pumpkin in us by tea-time and headed
for the dining-room full of anticipation.
No, there wasn’t any pumpkin on the
menu, but somehow the meal seemed
strange and tasteless to us, and we went
outside afterwards and hired a car to take
us to Sale so we could catch a train out
of Gippsland before we became con-
firmed pumpkin-eaters. Said Mat, “I
never believed them yarns about lotus-
eaters, but I do now. Gripes, we’ve had
a close shave, all right.”
* * * *
“E.”: It was coming on lambing
season and the old man was busy. He
sought his missus. “Our agreement
stands, same as last year, I s’pose, Mum?”
he began hopefully. “You look after
the ewes night ’n’ morning, an’ y’ have
all the black lambs f’r y’rself?” Mum
looked dubious. “Well, I’m pretty busy,”
she parried. “And I remember last year
there was only one black lamb; and it
died.” “Yair, but cripes, that ain’t t’
say there mightn’t be a bloomin’ dozen of
’em this time,” Dad pointed out hastily.
“And y’re savin’ up f’r a new winter
coat, ain’t y’? Good chance t’ get a
bit of easy money towards it, if y’ ask
me.” Mum fell for the bait, and the next
two months found her out early and
late tending the lambing ewes. For some
time the old man saw no blacks among
them ; then one day he counted five as he
passed the paddock. He moaned a bit,
tried unsuccessfully to sidestep the issue,
and ended by declaring loudly and long
that he was a man of his word and would
stick by the bargain. He’d take the
blacks to the saleyard along with his own
and sell them separately in Mum’s name.
The sale was scarcely over when it began
to rain. Hour after hour it fell steadily,
and when the buyer of the black lambs
returned next morning he stared amazed
at five piebalds, standing in a pen awash
with black dye.
QUAIL.
Paddock yellow, gold and brown,
Seed and stalk and thistledown:
Little body in the fold
Stealing through the brown and gold,
Sly of foot and sleek of tread,
Weaving through the grasses bled,
Ne’er a rustle or a bend
Where the sea of colors blend.
Peace within a drowsy scene
Where the stillness hangs serene—
Then like shot from secret grass,
Swift as ever flight could pass,
Whirr of wings that beat and fling—
Timid quail is on the wing.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


How a small investor turned £lOB into £l4O
as well as receiving nearly 5% in dividends each year
SECOND
AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST
Even though your capital is as little as £25 you should read
this booklet. It tells about a plan which has been followed by
thousands of small investors —and many big ones too—a plan
which enables you to enjoy an income of nearly 5 per cent and
gives
ABSOLUTE SAFETY FOR YOUR MONEY
This plan was introduced to Australia 14 years ago by Australian Fixed
Trusts Pty. Ltd. It enables the value of your money to grow with the
growing wealth of Australia. Here is how the plan works.
You become an investor in one of the Unit Trusts established and
managed by Australian Fixed Trusts Pty. Ltd., and this gives you at
one stroke of your pen an interest in a group of twenty or more leading
Australian industrial and commercial
companies such as Woolworths,
Broken Hill Pty., Ltd., Dunlop
Rubber Company, Commercial Bank,
Henry Jones and others —in fact in
all the companies in which shares are
held by the particular Unit Trust in
which you invest.
By spreading your investment over
many shares your Unit Trust gives
you maximum safety for your money
and its value increases as the
value of the shares rises. In addition,
you receive half-yearly your share of
the handsome dividends paid by these
successful companies. Income now
averages nearly 5 per cent per annum.
Isn’t that better than letting youi
money lie idle in a savings bank at a
low rate of interest? Best of all, if
you want your money at any time
Australian Fixed Trusts Pty ; , Ltd.,
guarantees to cash your Unit rus
certificate for you. Send for
16 page Free Booklet which tells ah
about the Unit Trust Plan of sate
investment and what it can o
you. Simply fill in and mail th
coupon and the booklet will be mailed
without cost or obligation, or teie
phone BU 2235. Do not delay. Do
not put it off. Mail the coupon now.
SEND ME FREE BOOKLET AS
ILLUSTRATED
NAME
ADDRESS
85/1
LID
PIY
TRUSTS
AUSTRALIAN
FIXED
Syd
Dept
St
ey
ree
AR i
SECKEi
MANAGER
CHAS
AI
EKDK
LISTEN TO FRANK STFRGE HARTY ON STATION 2CH DAILY 2-2.80 P m - 12 45 p.m. daily
Also Frank Chine 2SM 8.45 p.m. Fridays. Paul Schramm Plays 2GB 9 p.m. Mondays. Golden Melodies on ~
Mon.-Thurs., and 10-10.30 a.m. Sundays.
THE [?]
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd.
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1943 210,068 62,297 6 p.c. = 144,000 1,691,529
Net addition goodwill, £4015 ..1,687,614
1944 260,878 62,276 6 p.c. s 144,000 1,742,116
1945 194,077 62,094 5* „ „ 132,000 1,742,099
Net addition goodwill, £8729 .. 1,733,370
1946 188,912 62,097 5* p.c. = 132,000 1,728,185
1947 229,539 62,097 6 „ „ 144,000 1,751,627
Interest arrears recovered, £77,904 ]
Less exchange and premiums on [
debenture repayment, £463,960.. |
Addition goodwill, £11,470 ..J
1,354,101
1948 303,234 61,268 8 p.c. = 213,333 1,382,734
Special grant staff fund, £20,000 .. 1,862,734
Added goodwill, £12,180 .. ..1,350,554
Interest arrears recovered, £173,685.. 1,524,239
1949 412,749 10 p.c. = 820,000 1,616,988
Special grant staff fund, £20,000 .. 1,596,988
Interest arrears recovered, £59,997.. 1,656,986
Goodwill written off, £54,469
1950 596,207 12 p.c. = 384,000
Special grant staff fund, £20,000
1,794,724
All sections of this big woolbroking,
pastoral, pastoral-finance, merchandising
and agency business contributed to the
leap of £183,458 in last term’s record
profit figure. Main factors responsible
for the improvement were: (1) another
good season —third in succession, (2) still-
higher prices for wool and livestock, (3)
continued expansion of the business by
absorption and otherwise, and (4) a wind-
fall distribution (£24.3-odd million to
Australian growers) of profits on disposal
of accumulated war-time wool stocks by
J.O. They were a fortuituous combina-
tion of extraordinary circumstances that
will not continue indefinitely.
Early in the term the co. bought at an
unstated figure the Pyrmont store and
goodwill of the wool, stock and produce
business of Australian Wool Brokers and
Produce Co., a Sydney concern with a
paid capital of £lBO,OOO. At June 30,
1948, the store stood in the vendor’s
books at £90,000 and goodwill at £20,000.
Profit for the year was £14,814; and the
co. was handling about 20,000 bales
wool p.a. Its 35,385-acre sheep property
(Glenroy) in nor’-west N. S. Wales, book-
value £90,000-odd, was not included in
the deal. Other businesses, all in the
stock-and-station category, taken over by
G.M. during the year were Morgan and
Kay, and Slessor and Co; (Q.), and C. L.
Bucknall, and Kilroy and Story (Vic.).
The amount paid for goodwill of these
businesses (total £54,469) was written off
out of the year’s earnings.
The Sydney purchase was responsible
for most of the extra 26,300 bales wool
received for the year:
Bales Australian
Year to Carry Average
Mar. 31, Received. Sold. etc. Forward, per Bale, t
1939.. 802,563 351,791 26,166 £l3 4 0
1947.. 326,600 289,655 47,‘826 31 6 9
19*8.. 334,600 316,982 64,734 50 11 6
1949.. 855,700 862,387 57,491 60 0 7
1950.. 882,000 416,661 21,917 70 0 0*
+ For year to June 30. * Estimate.
The average price per bale was the
highest ever recorded for Australian
wool. A record number of sheep
(5.700.000) cattle (375,000) and pigs
(110.000) were also auctioned, land sales
approximated £4,200,000, and bigger
returns from merchandise and from the
co.’s own runs in western N. S. Wales and
Queensland helped to swell earnings, too.
Excluding £59,997 arrears of interest,
recovered, gross earnings shot up by
£518,555:
Provi-
Year Gross* Debenture dent Net
Mar., Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
£ £ £ £ £
1939.. 736,285 548,125 62,500 8,500 117,160
1947. . 1,130,040 888,340 62,097 12,161 167,442
1948. . 1,443,967 1,124,417 61,268 16,315 241,967
1949. . 1,925,948 1,494,573 18,626 412,749
1950. . 2,444,603 1,826,294 22,102 596,207
* Includes surplus on realisation of investments.
Including the contribution to the staff
fund, exes, gobbled £335,197 of the gain,
leaving the net result at £596,207. That
was equal to 18.6 p.c. on capital com-
pared with 12.9, 11.2 and 6.9 p.c. for the
three preceding years. Uncertain of what
the future holds for th© trade, the
cautious board kept the div, at 6 p.c. and
added a 6 p.c. bonus (4 p.c. in the
previous year), making 12 p.c. for the
year.
Continued expansion and strong liquid
resources, which means ability 4o assist
clients further when the need arises, are
the features of balance-sheet figures:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Capital .. 2,400,000 3,200,000 3,200,000 3,200,000
Debentures 1,407,549 8,603 1,639
Creditors . . 1,609,213 2,279,641 3,512,129 4,688,413
Tax reserve.. 155,714 811,648 371,751 755,989
Liquids . . 2,193,139 2,161,425 3,642,226 3,959,554
Advances . . 3,788,827 3,588,815 3,594,289 4,624,066
Stocks . . 244,988 332,642 483,054 624,210
Shares i n
subsidiary 73,536 73,536 73,536
Shares other
cos. . . 45,556 45,161 52,517 60,195
Property, etc. 1,072,849 1,067,820 1,047,900 1,186,804
Plant . . 74,744 112,078 158,303 233,210
The growths in the creditors’ item (up
£1,106,284) and in advances (up
£1,029,777) are due largely to current
wool transactions unsettled at balancing
date. Th© additions to properties (up
£138,904) and plant (up £74,907) largely
reflect purchase of the business already
referred to, while heavier stocks (up
£141,156) are indicative of bigger
merchandising activities at higher prices.
When the books closed creditors could
see 16s. lid. of every pound coming to
them in liquids.
The immediate outlook favors another
good showing at next balance. Seasonal
prospects are excellent, the statistical
position of the staple is strong, world con-
sumption of wool continues to run ahead
of production, and a heavy drop in prices
is not anticipated. As for the less
immediate future, the chairman says:
The major query in the wool trade today
is the continued ability of the Northern
Hemisphere to purchase our wool and find
buyers for the processed products. Any
serious diminution of world trade, such
as might follow substantial cuts in Marshall
Aid, or strong consumer resistance to prices,
could have serious repercussions on Aus-
tralia’s primary industries, which are still
critically short of equipment for transport,
fencing, building, etc.
The extent to which the present level of
wool prices will stimulate production of
the staple, discourage consumption and
stimulate competition from artificial fibres
is a question to which a clear-cut answer
cannot be given at this stage. Current
developments in Korea and else-
where have created a very fluid and
uncertain background for international
trade. Meanwhile, the question of
setting up an organisation to operate
a reserve-price scheme in connection with
the Australian market, and to take the
place of J. 0., awaits the decision of
growers, who are far from being unani-
mous on the question.
The market prices the co.’s pound
shares at 435. 6d. (325. 3d. a year ago),
giving a return of 5.5 p.c. so long as the
12 p.c. distribution continues, or 4.6 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover (book-value) is 3 Is. 2d.
Mark Foy’«, Ltd. (Sydney)
f Dividends \
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1941.. 68,642 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229- 9,039 236,446
Net addition tax reserve, £75,177 .. 311,623
1942.. 70,107 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229 10,504 322,127
Tax reserve included with creditors,
£151,262 170,865
1943.. 62,500 16,374 8 p.c. => 43,229 2,897 173,762
1944.. 74,228 16,374 10 „ „ 64,037 3,817 177,579
1945.. 75,931 16,374 10 „ „ 54,037 5,520 183,099
1946.. 87,809 16,374 12* „ „ 67,646 3,889 186,988
Profit sale property, £1250.. .. 188,238
“Contingencies and depreciation re-
serve” appears, £50,000 .. .. 238.238
1947.. 227.16,374 12* p.c.= 67,546 18,307 256,545
1948.. 910.16,374 12* „ „ 67,546 39,990 296,535
Profit sale assets, £2055 .. .. 298,590
1949.. 547.16,374 13i p.c.= 74,301 45,872 344,462
From inner reserves, £BO,OOO .. 374,462
Profit sale assets, £2342 ;. .. 376,804
1950.. 354.16,374 132 p.c. = 74,301 37,679 414,483
This big department-store is now in
better trim, financially and otherwise,
than it has been'for many a year, and,
subject to economic and industrial de-
velopments, promises to continue to give
a good account of itself. It was spiralling
wage and other costs and the official
slimming of gross margins on controlled
lines that were responsible for the slip
of £8193 in last term’s declared profit,
which was second-best since the public
became interested in the scrip over 40
years ago. Turnover —it ranges from
hardware and furniture to fashion goods,
with an optical department thrown in—
increased, despite the sharp fall in sales
during the coal strike of a year ago. The
improvement, less marked than the
previous year’s, appears to be due more
to price rises than to increased physical
volume.
Including £37,434 (down £952) for de-
preciation, £14,000 (same as previous
term) sent to the staff fund and un-
specified allowances for taxation and
other contingencies, the cost of conduct-
ing the business (£690,978) increased by
£24,902, while the improvement in gross
earnings (£819,332) was only £16,709.
The £128,354 of profit covered the 6 p.c.
pref. div. (£16,374) and 20.7 p.c. on the
£540,367 of ord. capital, compared with
22.2, 19.9, 15.9, 13.2 and 11 p.c. back to
1945. So repetition of the 13| p.c. distri-
bution, of which H p.c. is labelled bonus,
remained an easy matter. The £37,679 of
the year’s net earnings that remained,
together with a capital profit of £2342 on
sale of assets and the disclosure of
£30,000 of inner reserves, lifted the visible
lay-by to £414,483. And shareholders
have the chairman’s comforting assur-
ance that the remaining inner reserves
“appear fully adequate to meet any
reasonably predictable contingency.”
Trading well within its own resources,
the co. has further strengtheneef its
already comfortable financial position:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £813,269 £813,269 £813,269 £813,269
Creditors.' etc. 449,348* 434,765* 174,661 216,360
Tax reserve .. 281,023 235,443
Property .. 754,269 763,126 763,517 756,469
Plant, etc. .. 5,000 15,000 50,000 62,355
Stocks .. 632,640 670,146 676,237 741,384
Book debts .. 103,863 86,128 117,467 127,164
Cash, etc. .. 72,106 . 52.T29 54,909 40,898
• * Includes , tax provision.
The amount coming to creditors (up
£41,699) includes £43,509 of sundry in-
ternal provisions, etc. The growth of
£65,147 in stocks might be due in part, to
the disclosure of inner reserves, which
also partly accounts for the improvement
of £64,714 in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£457,643). Stocks are reported
in good order, clean and in satisfactory
proportion to turnover, and they appear
less a “substantial reserve against possible
market fluctuations.” It is possible, there-
fore, that the board could have shown a
bit more profit if it had wanted to.
What the year ahead holds for retailers
and traders generally is anybody’s guess
at the moment. Foy’s chairman antici-
pates further improvement in turnover.
but whether the benefits therefrom will
be sufficient to offset the rise in labor an!}
other costs on the one hand and the "
stnctive influence of price-control on th
other remains to be seen. All that can
be said definitely at the moment is that
the co. has a management alive to it*
problems, and there is a wide margin be
tween earnings and distributions.
At 475. 6d. (425. 9d. a year ago) the
f.-p. pound ords. return 5.8 p.c. so W
as the 13| p.c. distribution continues or
5.3 p.c. on a p.c. div. basis. The
prefs. at 275. 3d. yield 4.4 p.c Net
tangible cover (book-value) is £4 Q s im
prefs. and 375. 3d. ords. Ud ’
William Adams and Co.
, Dividends N
Pref. Tv. n. „
April, Profit. 7 p.c. serves, selves.
1942.. 40,195 1750 10.1 p.c. = 24,792 13,653 M fnc
1943.. 40,094 1750 10.1 „„ 24 792 13 552 Jl’ow
1944.. 40,449 1750 10.1 „,, 24,792 13 907 gl’flfil
1945.. 37.960.1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 11 4ia inl’SL 4
1946.. 41.821.1750 10.1 24 792 15,279 ’
1947 53.763 1750 10.1 „ „ 35,416 16,597 iL’oso
From tax reserve, £25,000 ..
Unexplained addition, £1378 ~ "
1948 85,217 1750 10.1 p.c.= 35,416 48,05 i 212 68?
Share premiums, £90,000 . . o o o’^i
Unexplained addition, £1686 .. “ sniTVQ
1949.101,635 1750 12.8 p.c.= 58,229 41,656 346 029
Added insurance reserve, £1755 w’Zaa
19501111.078 1750 12.8 p.c.=: 58.229 61,099 398 843
The feature of that table is the extra-
ordinary expansion of post-war earnings
—profits have more than doubled over
the last three years and nearly trebled
since 1945. They reflect the heavy
demand for the engineering and electrical
supplies, lubricants and various hardware
lines which the co., with Commonwealth-
wide connections, handles. They have
been won in a market sheltered from the
full impact of overseas competition, and
are the outcome partly of a war-time
backlog, partly of inflation and partly of
Australia’s recent and rapid industrial de-
velopment.
Last term expanding turnover again
more than took care of advancing costs,
and the board was able to write net
earnings £9443 stronger at £111,078.
That was after setting aside £13,101 (up
£3978) for depreciation and whatever was
considered necessary for taxation and
other contingencies. The £111,078 was
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
24 p.c. on the £455,000 of ord. capital as
against 22, 23.8, 14.9, 16.3 and 14.7 p.c.
back to 1945. So a bonus of 2.7 p.c. was
again added to the 10.1 p.c. div.—the
latter has been an annual event since 1938
—making 12.8 p.c. for the year.
To help underpin the bigger trading,
much of which is expected to hold, the
co. gathered £210,000 of fresh capital,
which brought with it £90,000 of share
premiums, during the two years to July,
1948. This money, and a lot more be-
sides, went mainly into stocks and
debtors’ balances :
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £375,000 £376,000 £480;000 £480,000
Liabilities* . . 376,422 532,196 556,251 862,321
Freeholds ’X, 133,206 183,206 148,607 198,851
Plant, etc. . . 17,712 30,591 41,672 62,657
Stocks .. 389,173 514,610 617,783 898,877
Book debts . . 847,204 436,470 585,402 590,038
Cash, shares, etc. 21,165 23,786 24,024 25,949
* Including provision for tax and contingencies.
To meet last term’s outlay on stocks (up
£281,095), book debts (up £4636) and
fixed assets (up £71,229) the board went
outside for an extra £306,070, raising the
debt to £862,321, equal to 18s. 3d. for
every pound belonging to shareholders in
the business at end April.
To ease the pressure, those on the
register (pref. and ord.) at June 28 were
offered 350,000 new 14s. ords., one for
two, at par. Presently ord.-holders can
apply for a further 12,500 new ords., also
at par, to make their holdings divisible
by 10. Finally the existing 14s. shares
are to be consolidated into pound shares.


From
Scotland
every
precious
drop
r—
‘jM’V? '.AV r»uc«Vw!i
' 'Jf _ f<ljr W
Ik
BUCHANAN’S
* "'*#*- **
BLACK&WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distilled and blended in Scotland
B/*Appointmenc,
H.M. King George VI,
mm?
Scotch Whisky Distillers.
James Buchinan & Co. Ltd.*
JAMES BUCHANAN AND CO. LTD.'. GLASGOW. SCOTLAND
DAVIES & CODLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt,
Copper Mine for Sole
Situated four miles from rail. Shaft
sixty feet deep. Vertical. Ore body
approximately two feet wide. Assays
18 to 28 p.c. copper. Driven twenty
feet east and seventy feet west. Load
very true and good holding ground.
Further particulars apply —
B. B. WATSON.
P.O. Box 43, Tottenham, N.S.W.
Telephone: 55 Tottenham.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
liiiVi nn mi&ii
f
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Bead,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A . MAQNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman ; Alfred S. White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
'Phone: B.W. 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States.
“Where is as is”
LAKEWOOD, NEAR KALGOORLIE, W.A.
Two “O” Class Locomotives
3ft. 6in. Gge.
Wheels 2.8.0 8-Wheel Tenders
Wood fired No side tanks Partly dismantled for repairs and re-
conditioning Boiler Inspector’s Reports and Estimates of Repair Cost
available to potential buyers. “
■ - '-Also
Spare Boiler (1601 b. Working Pressure) and other spares including 2 sets
Engine Wheels and 1 Set Bogie and Tender Wheels.
Enquiries to:
Goldfields Firewood Supply Pty. Ltd.
Box LBB3, G.P.0., PERTH, or Tel. 82024.
This is
m
k %
m
THE CAPTAIN AND THE CREW
Maybe he doesn’t look it, but the Captain is a greybeard as
far as flying’s concerned more than 10,000 hours! The
remainder of the crew have “flying whiskers”, too. Then
there are the two stewardesses . . . cheerful, efficient, anticipa-
ting your every wish.
L
nc
m
PRESSURISED "EMPRESS" AIRLINERS
To FIJI • HONOLULU
SAN FRANCISCO • VANCOUVER
WITH 24-HOUR STOPOVER AT HONOLULU
Luxurious, “Loungaire” full
length reclining chairs give more
seat space per passenger.
Special featherlight blanket
if you wish to take a nap.
SPECIAL
NEW DETACHABLE
TABLES FOR
EACH SEAT
iC
1
m
NO DOLLARS
REQUIRED
Through fore in
Australian currency
a
■
m
FLY RELAXED ARRIVE REFRESHED
Food is delicious. Full course meals aloft
equal to those you’ll enjoy ashore. Snacks
between meals, bar service, too! Enjoy
the added comfort of sleeping ashore at
Fiji and Honolulu in modern hotels . . .
meals and accommodation ashore are in-
cluded in your ticket. 15 dollars
(U.S.) provided at Vancouver, Mon-
treal or New York for through pas-
sengers to or from U.K.
For further details apply Canadian Pacific
Railway Company, or Union Steam Ship
Co. (General Agents ), George Street,
Sydney, and 59 William Street, Mel-
bourne, or any authorised Tourist Agency.
GMUuiiAnOkd&c
AIRLINES
"THE WINGS OF THE WORLD'S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM"
Canadian Pacific Airlines Limited Incorporated in Canada
10 old for seven new, and pref.-
Wders are to be given the right
to exchange each of their £1
7 p.c. pref. shares for one new
£l ord.
When all the money on the
fle w issue is in, and assuming
that all the 25,000 pref. shares
' are converted, paid capital will
b e £725,000 in £1 ord. shares, on
which, say, 12* p.c. will call for
£90,625, or £20,453 less profit
than was claimed last terra.
A murky international back-
ground obscures the long-term
outlook for the business, greatest
danger to which lies in possible
competition from overseas. On
the market buyers offered 31s.
and sellers asked 365., ex-rights,
for the f.-p. 14s. shares last
weekend. The middle figure of
335, 6d. would be equal to
475. lOd. per pound share, after
conversion on the basis already
referred to. After early sales at
17s. the rights recently changed
hands at 15s. 6d., at which figure
the cost per pound share (after
conversion) would be 425. Id.,
excluding brokerage. At 425. Id.
per pound share the equivalent
worth of the existing 14s. shares
would be 295. 6d. At 425. Id,
the new pound shares would re-
turn 5.9 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. dis-
tribution, or 4.7 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. Including the
new issue, the cover is 31s. in
net tangibles.
Jelapang Tin, operating at
Ulu Kinta, on the Ipoh-Jelapang
road (F.M.S.), where the present
property is nearly worked out,
made a better showing last year,
thanks to the bigger yardage
handled and the higher price re-
ceived for the metal Treatment
and recovery figures compare as
follows:
1948. 1949.
Treated, c.y. .. 1,245,000 1,687,000
Tin ore, tons . . 406.31 455.71
Yield, lb. per c.y. 0.73 0.60
Costs, pence per c.y. 12.92 *10.63
Average assay value of the
oxide was 76.1 p.c. tin. The
dredge handled easy ground
early in the year, but ran into
limestone pinnacles and old
mining holes later. The average
price received for tin was
£559 14s. 9d. per ton as against
£534 17s. for the previous term.
All-in costs amounted to
£4OO 14s. 3d. per ton tin, of which
£lB 13s. Id. was paid to the
Government in royalties. After
allowing £14,000 (up £4000) for
taxation and writing off £3OOO on
account of restoration, the profit
was £41,749 (up £6027), equal to
34.8 p.c. on the £120,000 of paid
capital. A ss. div., less tax at
20 p.c., was paid, same as for
previous year. It is expected that
all pay-dirt on the property will
have been treated by mid-1951.
Terrorist activities have made
prospecting impossible, but the
hunt for a new property will
begin as soon as conditions per-
mit. If one isn’t found before
mid-1951 the dredge is to be put
on a care - and - maintenance
basis. At December 31 last
current assets totalled £131,631
(mostly cash), and current
liabilities, including the div.,
£30,075. In addition there was
a rehabilitation loan of £33,653,
part or all of which might be
offset by the co.’s war-damage
claim (amount not disclosed),
final assessment of which is ex-
pected at an early date. The
market takes a cautious view and
prices the co.’s f.-p. pound
shares at 19s.
* * * *
The ss. shares in Mandated
Alluvials (Papua), which stood
at Is. 3d. in the market during
most of 1949, sold at ss. a month
or so ago, since when sellers
have appeared at 3s. Formed
in Sydney in 1935, the co. took
over the Moresby King and
other leases about 16£ miles
from Port Moresby, but the
show failed to live up to the
early expectations formed of it.
The ore carries copper (now the
chief attraction) as well as gold
and silver, but values have been
irregular. Until war broke out
a matte was produced at the
mine and shipped to the main-
land for treatment. In 1941 Dr.
Fisher, then Government geo-
logist in New Guinea, reckoned
ore reserves in the co.’s Laloki
mine at 259,000 tons, averaging
about 4.7 p.c, copper and
4.6ldwt. gold, and in the Sap-
phire and Moresby King at 9195
tons, assaying lOdwt. gold—
copper content not determined.
A recent geophysical survey by
the Bureau of Mineral Resources
suggests the existence of further
ore-bodies, to test which the co.
has bought a mobile drill,
scheduled to commence work at
an early date. Mining and smelt-
ing operations are to begin again
as soon as an adequate supply
of coke is assured.
* * * *
Ora Banda Amalgamated,
Grant’s Patch (W.A.), has
planned a reincarnation as
Amalgamated Ora Banda Mines,
N.L., with a nominal capital of
£50,000 in 2s. shares. If share-
holders agree, the old co. (paid
capital £125,000 in ss. shares),
which has an empty till and owes
the Government £20,500, but has
no other creditors, is to go into
voluntary liquidation. Those
on the register are to be offered
one share in the new co. for
each share in the old one, pay-
able 6d. on application and the
balance as required. The aim is
to provide funds for develop-
ment of McKenzie’s lease. There
is also talk of treating a dump
of about 170,000 tons of Tesi-
dues, said to average I.7sdwt.
gold, if investigation shows that
the work would be profitable.
The old co., which exhausted its
funds in work on Nicholson’s
lease, which failed to live up to
expectations, finally came to
grief when a fire destroyed the
10-head battery in October, 1947.
The mine has since been on a
maintenance basis. Mining
operations can be resumed with
present Equipment without re-
pair, but additions to the treat-
ment plant will be needed be-
fore crushing can begin. At the
time of the fire some 22,500 tons
of payable sulphides had been
disclosed in McKenzie’s block,
where developments on Nos. 6
and 7 levels looked promising.
A feature of the mine is that
the ore-bodies occur as discon-
nected lenses.
* * * *
The announcement that the
Siamese Government will pay
war-loss and rehabilitation
claims totalling £8153,533
(£A191,917) to Australian tin
cos. operating in Siam has fitted
in fairly well with market antici-
pations. The net amount (after
deducting Government advances
already made for rehabilitation
purposes) to be paid to the vari-
ous cos. are Rangen £818,400,
Satupulo £84488, Tinsongkhla
£844,337, Tongkah Compound
No. 3 £846,852 and Tongkah
Compound No. 3 £839,456.


tke 4tedt thftt
AkM U6H
d
\
/
<J\
tJ:
3
Ni
1
zJ
i
icryr
TOOTH'S SHEAF STOUT
SKEWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH S CO. LIMITED
SS.M9A.IS
The importance of
Planning your Will
Your Estate will not yield its
maximum for the protection of
your dependents unless your Will
has been carefully planned.
Changing conditions and the
complexities of taxation are two
important problems to be consid-
ered; there are many others known
to those whose business it is to
administer Estates, but which can
easily be overlooked by those not
so experienced.
By discussing your problems, in confidence, with
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited, you will have the
benefit of the Company’s more than 63 years experience
in the administration of Estates to advise you in your
planning.
By appointing Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as
your Executor and Trustee alone or jointly with a
relative or friend you will solve another important
problem; you will ensure that, when your guiding hand
is withdrawn, your Estate will be efficiently and econom-
ically managed in the best interests of your dependents.
The Company has wide experience in the handling
of Estates of many different kinds—investment, industrial
and pastoral. It has gained the confidence of the public
to such a degree that it has become the largest Trustee
Company in the Southern Hemisphere.
There is a helpful and informative booklet “Your
Executor and Trustee” that describes the services the
Company has to offer and the charges.
’Phone B 0377 or write for a copy to-day.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £68,000,000.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. .1. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman: E. R. KNUi,
ALLEN C. LEWIS: Hon. J. P. ABBOTT; D. R. LYSAGHT
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAM WORTH and ORANGE
rf
w?
t TifEiSknn
& firrftT
sSJJJJJJJJ
'**tu
mith
\\\
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Dollars, Shares and War
Mr. Menzies left Australia
on Sunday for a visit to
Britain, the U.S.A., Canada
and New Zealand. He is
to discuss defence co-opera-
tion, migration and “certain
financial questions.” The last-
mentioned have been regarded
in the Press as embracing the
matter of a dollar loan.
A dollar loan, prudently raised
and wisely applied, could be of
great assistance to the Aus-
tralian economy at the present
time. It would need to be used
mainly for the import of essen-
tial raw materials and machinery.
Repayment and interest prob-
lems would depend a great deal
upon how reproductively the
capital was applied to begin
with, upon our future cost-of-
production trend, and upon the
accessibility of dollar markets
to our exports.
Interestingly, last week Britain’s
Chancellor of the Exchequer,
Stafford Cripps, announced that
Empire gold and currency re-
serves had increased by $438 mil-
lion during the second quarter
of 1950, and that the reserves
now stand at $2422 million
(£865 million sterling)—almost
double the amount held at the
time the pound was devalued
last September. The striking im-
provement in the Empire’s dollar
reserves, however, is unlikely to
continue in existing circum-
stances, and, in any case, the
position is still being helped by
Marshall Aid, which will lessen
as time goes by.
The improvement in the
Empire dollar position has been
brought about partly by drastic
economies in imports from the
U.S.A. as well as by higher prices
for Empire raw materials, in-
cluding wool.
There was improvement in
Stock Exchange prices abroad
and in Australia last week.
Wall-street’s recovery on Wed-
nesday was followed by a steady-
ing in Australia on Thursday
and Friday, B.H.P. being notice-
ably firmer. Though the fall in
prices that has followed the
Korean affair may be embarras-
sing to those operating in the
sharemarket with the idea of
making quick profits, investors
in Australian industrials should
not be greatly concerned by
events which have occurred so
far. War-time plays tricks
with values, especially as they
relate to paper money.
Papuan Drilling Programme
“Lemon”: Mr. L, A. Pym,
general manager of Australasian
Petroleum Co., in which Oil
Search, Ltd., now holds an 18.6
p.c, interest, has just returned
from London and New York,
where he has been discussing the
co.’s drilling programme and
plans for 1950 and 1951 with
representatives of Vacuum Oil
and Anglo-Iranian Oil. These
organisations divide equally be-
tween them the balance of
A.P.C. shares.
The drilling programme in
Papua has been adjusted to ac-
celerate the search for oil, and,
to this end, drilling preparations
at Malalaua have been sus-
pended. • This will enable the
available equipment and staff to
be employed on more promising
locations in the Delta area.
It is expected, also, that dril-
ling conditions will be found to
be more favorable in the Delta
than to the east of it, and
grounds for this expectation are
strengthened by the fact that the
bore at Wana (B. 24/5/’5O) has
reached a depth of 5000 ft, after
only eight weeks of drilling.
At Upoia, deepening is con-
tinuing below the 5194 ft. mark,
at which the casing has been
cemented.
At Hohoro unusually difficult
strata have halted progress at
4721 ft., which depth was
reached two months ago ; but,
even if it becomes necessary to
abandon drilling on the present
site, a second location on this
structure will be tested in what
BJ.DIXOM
gytu>EE
“He might have had the threshold ready, at least!”
is anticipated to be less-broken
ground.
The decision of Australasian
Petroleum to continue drilling in
1951, irrespective of the success
or failure of the efforts to reach
oil on the locations now drilling,
or in line for drilling, should be
heartening to the holders of Oil
Search scrip.
On the other hand, the sus-
pension of operations at Mala-
laua will be a blow to those in-
terested in Papuan Apinaipi, as
this is the only location within
reasonable distance of that co.’s
permit area the striking of oil
on which might have rendered
its own prospects a little brighter
than they have been since the
abandonment of Oroi as a dry
hole.
N.Z.'s Reserve Bank
New Zealand’s Reserve Bank,
now 16 years old, which was
made the catspaw of the
Socialists when little more than
an infant and grew up tied to
the apron-strings of Labor’s
Finance Minister, Walter Nash,
is to be given its freedom and
independence under one of the
early legislative reforms of
M.L.’s new Parliament.
From 1935 to 1939, when
its first governor, Leslie Lefeaux,
used his wits to safeguard -it
against Socialistic designs and
did his best to give it a decent
start in life, its lot was not a
happy one, and in later years its
role of money-spinner, through
the printing-press and credit-
expansion, was one in which it
i\ever revelled. Inflationary
policies went strongly against
the grain, especially ins the
Socialists’ post-war spending
spree and rake’s progress, when
the excuse of war emergency
was no longer there to condone
every departure from financial
prudence. Last year the change
of management brought promise
of a return to sound money, to-
gether with a chance to put into
practice well-tried ideas on how
to run a bankers’ bank.
Trading banks shared the feel-
ing of revived hope under the
new set-up in Maoriland, and it
wasn’t long before they were en-
couraged by a retreat < from
tight centralised control over ad-
vances to think more for them-
selves once again. As prosperity
was flowing more freely than
ever, the came in time
for them to get busy restocking
their sterling-exchange lockers
in readiness for freer external
trade when import controls were
loosened. Millions from wool
fell into their laps.
Everything seems favorable
for Maoriland to sweep away its
costly, cumbersome and irritat-
ing import - licensing system,
which has been in the saddle for
Hi years, but there will be one
remaining barrier to free con-
vertibility of the N.Z. pound.
The 20 p.c. trans - Tasman
currency gap, as long as it is
there, will force M.L. to tread
warily. Whether it’s viewed as
a case of over-valuation of
M.L.’s pound or under-valuation
of Australia’s, the effect is the
same as if New Zealand were
exposed to a powerful financial
magnet drawing capital across
the Tasman. There can’t be free
convertibility for N.Z. under
these conditions; this is why
Maorilanders are among the
most ardent advocates of Aus-
tralian revaluation. It isn’t pos-
sible for the Dominion to block
up all the loopholes against ex-
change-leakage, although the
main ones have been effectively
plugged for years. No one
knows how many millions of
private funds New Zealanders
hold abroad, m Australia and
elsewhere, but estimates run f
well over £3O million. nto
Courtaulds’ Australian Sll u
sidiary, m which the C.S R an j
A.M.P., as well as other
dustnal and financial concern.'
are interested, is not expected tn
begin production until about
1954. The London parent Co
also believes that it will depend
for Us success upon adequate
tariff protection. The scheme
provides for the production 0 f
about six million pounds of vis
cose tyre yarn and three million
pounds of acetate textile yarn a
year. The 55.-paid ords. i n the
Australian subsidiary are on
offer in Sydney at ss. 10d.
*** * *
Consolidated Press, which re-
cently led the way in the Sun-
day-paper field with a rise to 6d.
in its Sabbath ’Telegraph”
(other Sydney Sunday papers
are still 4d., but are mostly
losing money), is having a spot
of bother with costs and other
problems. Its “Women’s
Weekly,” mainstay of the co.’s
fortunes, was raised in price
from 4d. to 6d. earlier. Con-
solidated and its associate, Con-
press Printing, have embarked
on an ambitious colorgravure
programme, involving heavy
capital outlay and high produc-
tion costs, and it happens that
newsprint costs have risen pro-
digiously, too, largely because of
the prohibition of imports from
the dollar area. Last week Con-
solidated ords. sold at 255. They
were up to 31s, 6d. earlier this
year, and reached 355. in 1949.
A new issue of 287,500 £1 ords.
(one for two) was made a month
or two back, carrying paid capital
up to £1,072,500, in 862,500
ords., 100,000 p.c. first cum.
prefs. and 150,000 5% p.c. second
cum. prefs. Last ord. div. was 8
p.c., paid from earnings dis-
closed at 9.8 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal. Another distribution is not
due until December.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates,
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Banish agony of
Cfttmiine
wmm
■
rj
m
Eliminate the cause of Rheu-
matism and agonising pains in
the joints, by helping your kid-
neys to filter out accumulated
poisons.
Rid Your System of
Excess Uric Acid
Drive out those impurities that
collect in the system, with a
course of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
—the remedy that has given
blessed relief to thousands of
sufferers. They act so gently, so
safely, so surely!
Get Dr. Sheldon’s Gin 11113
now from your nearest Chemist
or Store.
27 Pills 2/ —60 Pills 3/“.
Dr. Sheldon’s
III!
FOR THE KIDNEYS
Every young man
M
C-.
Every young man, as soon as he
starts to earn a regular income, should open a cheque
account. It will help him to keep an accurate record
of income and expenditure, provide a safe place to
keep his money and give him experience in handling
his own affairs which will prove invaluable in later
life.
You don't need to be 21 to have a cheque account.
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NBW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5013D
Ancestors of
" an
Industry
v* \
a 51
;P.
k
James Muspratt was the founder of the British alkali
industry. The manufacture of sodium carbonate, one form of
which is the familiar “washing soda,” and other alkalis is one
of the most important branches of the chemical industry. The
first commercial process for making them depended on the use
of sulphuric acid and produced hydrochloric acid as a by-
product. Ever since James Muspratt opened his works in
Liverpool a century and a quarter ago, alkali and mineral acid
manufacture have frequently been closely bound together.
Muspratt, though born in Ireland, was of English parentage.
At the age of fourteen he was apprenticed to a wholesale
druggist in Dublin, but four years later, in 1811, he gave up
commerce and made his way to Spain, where he fought in the
Peninsular War. Returning to England, he joined the Royal
Navy as a midshipman, but found conditions in his ship so
intolerable that he deserted, returned to Ireland, and started a
small works, where he manufactured potassium ferrocyanide.
Coming to Liverpool in 1822, he set up a plant to produce
sulphuric acid, extending it the following year to make sodium
carbonate. In 1828, in partnership with Josias Gamble, he built
an alkali works at St. Helens in Lancashire. The hydrochloric
acid fumes from his works were allowed to escape into the
air and did much damage to neighbouring farmers’ crops. In
1836 a method of absorbing these objectionable gases was
invented by another Englishman, William Gossage. Instead
of being allowed to go to waste, the fumes were recovered
and proved to be a valuable by-product. Hydrochloric acid
manufacture had now been added to that of
sulphuric acid and sodium carbonate by
James Muspratt and his associates. The
foundations of the British heavy chemical
industry were complete.
fd
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
■ in IL-S9-14 u.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
John Briton is unfortunately
in that unhealthy condition
where he finds much to censure
and little to praise. What
is the picture that he sees, if he
can find the patience to sort out
the background facts and
events?
First, he has been brought up
to the belief that his country’s
foreign affairs are “above
party”; that is to say, they will
be treated in the national in-
terest and not according to the
whims of a clique. If five years
of Socialist monopoly have
caused him to modify his views
he has good reason to expect a
stable foreign policy at the pre-
sent time, for the monopoly no
longer holds sway. Second, he
has always understood that in-
ternational affairs were con-
ducted not only by, but also
with, diplomacy, which his
dictionary tells him means;
Management of, skill in managing,
international relations, adroitness,
artful management, tact.
Third, since Hitler, Stalin and
others have made a mockery of
diplomacy, he knows that its
efficacy is limited; but not be-
tween friends, where it is as vital
as mutual policy.
Also, he sees the Prime
Minister, a man of long experi-
ence in government, in supreme
charge. He sees the Foreign
Secretary (a likeable enough per-
sonality himself) as an old, tired
and very sick man who is rarely
out of hospital; but, he says,
there’s still the Foreign Office.
“Now,” he asks himself,
“what’s it all about? Schuman
proposes that Europe should
pool her steel, partly for the
general good, partly to obviate
future wars between France and
Germany and partly to point the
way to a federated Europe.
Good things—// they come off.”
Being naturally insular and
having good reasons for wari-
ness of Europe, cartels and Ger-
man industrialists, he may not
feel optimistic. He agrees that
it’s important to keep the door
open, even if a cautious foot is
extended to prevent him from
being taken unawares. The
diplomats will work out the
plan.
“That’s all right,” he says,
“but what’s Dalton, Minister of
Town and Country Planning, to
do with this? Why does he
crudely throw a spanner in the
machinery, and what does he
mean when he says that we
won’t co-operate with other
Governments until they be-
come Socialist too?”
Mr. Dalton Again
He may well ask. Dr. Dalton,
as diplomatic as a drunk in a
rage, has bobbed up again like
an ebullient jack-in-the-box. The
publication of the egregious
pamphlet, “European Unity,”
has not been fully explained, but
it has embarrassed Mr. Attlee to
the point of disturbed silence,
and even he has had to admit
that its timing was “unfortu-
nate.”
The unctuous document was
prepared by the theoreticians of
Transport House (Labor-party
H.Q.), who wouldn’t be there if
they weren’t indoctrinated. No
diplomacy here. “European
Unity” was intended for Dr.
Dalton, withdrawn from his not-
very-important planning, to lead
the British delegates at the
Strasbourg Conference; and he,
as Budget memories remind us,
is always ready to talk.
The most crucial revelation of
this incident, as far as it con-
cerns home affairs, is the simple
truism that our Socialist Gov-
ernment can’t be two things at
the same time: it can’t govern
the country according to the ex-
pressed or implied wish of the
electorate and be faithful to the
demands of its own doctrinaires.
One or other of the glamor-boys
of the far Left must be to the
fore. Until recently it was Mr.
Aneurin Bevan, but he spoke
out too fiercely and, it is held,
lost at least a dozen good mar-
ginal seats at the last election.
Now he bites his tongue and
says little. What a chance for
Dr. Dalton to come forward!
Even if the living-down of
this incident may be long and
difficult there are compensa-
tions. Dr. Dalton has caused
the Liberals, lately roaming
about No Man’s Land, to move
into the Conservative lines for
a parley that may even develop
iinto a big push. He has surely
and squarely set foreign affairs
on the party programme for the
next election.
It remains to be seen whether
the voice of Britain, when called
upon to pass judgment, will
speak with greater sensibility
than that of the cocksure Dr.
Dalton.
Mess-deck Musketeers
A glint of romance has
heightened the success in the
West End theatre of yet another
Australian. Hugh Hastings
(born in Sydney 33 years ago to
the name of Williamson) took to
playwriting to compensate for
his disappointments as an actor.
If the result —“Seagulls Over
Sorrento” (Apollo Theatre) —has
won him both the applause of
the critics and the assurance of
a long run, his reward is more
solid than the lucky outcome of
a passing whim. Family connec-
tions with the stage in Australia
(he is Peggy Devine’s son and a
relative of J. C. Williamson) are
merely incidental to his own
doggedness. “Sorrento” has
taken 2i years to reach Shaftes-
bury-avenue, and is but one of
a round half-dozen plays writ-
ten at six-monthly intervals,
Hastings, who served in the
Royal Navy for 5£ years, por-
trays the unquenchable com-
radeship of the lower-deck, with
its humors, anguishes and strange
contrasts, in such a wealth of
realism and warm understanding
that this ex-matelot quite forgot
that he had returned to civilian
life. Sorrento is the ironic nick-
name for a bleak rock at Scapa
which is the base for dangerous
experiments. Five able-seamen
form the body of adventurers
whose emotions, reactions and
backgrounds are traced over an
eventful fortnight.
These composite characters
are the stronger for having been
drawn from real life. “Badge”
(Ronald Shiner) is a Cockney
whose wife has run off with
another sailor; “Lofty” (Bern-
ard Lee) has a big heart, a quick
temper which keeps him “in the
rattle” and an uncontrollable
predilection for loose women;
“Haggis” (John Gregson) is
sick-embittered of a marital
catastrophe; “Sprog” (Nigel
Stock) is a simple-minded found-
ling; and the ill-fated Hudson
(Gerald Anderson) is a well-
bred intellectual whose family
life has failed him. A sadistic
petty-officer (William Hartnell)
exercises his unremitting will to
provoke his subordinates into
insubordination, and is vastly
more terrifying than the hazards
of duty. (His too-demoniac
presence is a fault: by com-
parison Simon Legree and Cap-,
tain Bligh were namby-pambies.)
The play throbs with the
veritable push-and-pull of drama,
but it is unforgivable that
theatricality of production
should have been allowed to
taint its art and cheapen its value.
Burlesque has its uses, but, like
one of Lofty’s “parties,” tends
to bring everything down to its
own level. Here is a splendid
play with abundant humor. It
might at least have been allowed
to speak for itself.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
July the Fourth celebrations in Mel-
bourne began with the Australian-
American luncheon at the Town Hall, at
which Commander Jackson was the
speaker. Later in the afternoon Consul-
General S. J. Fletcher and his wife enter-
tained at a late-afternoon party. Against
a setting of the Stars and Stripes and
bowls of glowing poinsettias and holly,
guests were received by Mrs. Fletcher
in a tailored frock of navy. The Gover-
nor’s daughter, Jeanette Brooks, allied a
ballerina skirt of Rothsay-blue with a
bodice of cream hand-made lace. Com-
pleting the ensemble was a matching blue
cloche. With a black jacket-suit, the
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney, wore
a black cap, befeathered. Lady Gengoult
Smith wore a sable stole with her brown
tailored suit; her matching hat was
trimmed with sable. Mrsf T. T. Holl-
way’s dyed ermine coat went with a
beige cloche in which brown-tipped
feathers were featured. Mrs. Charles
Norton’s frock was beige, her coat brown
beaverine. Mrs. Rupert Downes offset
her black Persian-lamb coat with a ruby-
red velvet cloche. Marjorie Cooke, a
principal of the “Song of Norway” cast,
wore with an unusual printed skirt, which
had the pattern outlined with tiny gold
sequins, a black lace and chiffon blouse.
Pink and white blossom transformed
St. Kilda Town Hall into “Springtime in
Washington” for the Fourth of July Ball
organised by the American Women’s
Auxiliary to the Children’s Hospital. The
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, Lady
Brooks and daughter Jeanette were
present. Portraits of the United States’
first and latest Presidents hung in the
foyer. In the west balcony a miniature
copy of the dome of Washington’s
Capitol rose from a setting of trees, whilst
the official enclosure was fronted with a
white picket fence, a lawn and flower-
beds. The crazy paths, painted by Alwyn
Spicer on large sheets of cardboard, were
most effective. The . president of the
auxiliary, Mrs. W. W. Killough, and her
husband received the vice-regal party.
Lady Brooks wore a gown of champagne-
tinted satin, the swathed bodice cut into
a peak at the waistline, from which fell
the full skirt. Jeanette Brooks chose a
strapless gown of white self-patterned
organza made with a bouffant skirt. A
coral-pink lace stole was worn by Mrs.
Killough with her silver-grey faille gown,
which carried pink sequins. Mrs. H.
Cavenaugh’s deep-brown tulle gown was
trimmed with amber beads on the bodice
and short sleeves. Mrs. Adrian Perry’s
ankle-length black lace gown featured a
tiered skirt. Mrs. Frank Gillespie’s off-
the-shoulder gown was of black velvet.
Mrs. Jules Bernard was in pale-
cyclamen-striped satin. Mrs. Harold
Rabling’s dove-grey chiffons had the
strapless bodice fashioned of massed
silver sequins. Eau-de-Nil brocaded satin
was Mrs. Maurice Nicholas’s choice. The
Prime Minister’s daughter, Heather Men-
zies, wore a bouffant gown of aqua-blue
marquisette. Over the silver-grey faille
worn by Mrs. Maurice Nathan diamente
stars were scattered. Mrs, Laurie Down-
ing’s garnet-red satin gown had a folded-
over top of powder-blue satin to match
her short gloves.
The Playgrounds War Memorial
Appeal, opened by Lord Mayor J. S.
Disney at the Town Hall, aims to help
young people find happiness through play
activities. For this work £lO,OOO is
needed, and this by July 21, closing day
of the appeal. On the opening day the
Lady Mayoress handed over to the presi-
dent, Mrs. Herbert Brookes, a cheque
for £260, profits from a bridge party
which Mrs. Disney, Lady Wales and a
small committee organised at the Town
Hall a few weeks ago. At the official
table was the Governor’s daughter,
Jeanette Brooks, whose junior-navy sirit
had for company a small cloche faced
with white grosgrain. Evie Hayes spoke
of what she had seen in Brisbane in the
way of playgrounds and also of what
was being done in America to give
children a chance to get off the streets,
with a resultant reduction in juvenile
delinquency. Mrs. Gillam Hunt, organiser
of the appeal, has arranged a series of
events to raise money. Tomorrow there
is the premiere of “All the King’s Men”
at the Savoy, on the 21st a Graeme Bell
concert at the King’s, and exhibitions by
the women’s basketball team on the 20th
and 21st at the Exhibition.
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S.
Disney, was confronted with an amazing
collection of fantastic, amusing and
pretty creations when she acted as judge
in the crazy-hat competition at the
Delphic dance, arranged by the com-
mittees of the Vera Scantlebury Brown
junior auxiliary and the Sutherland
Homes Auxiliary. Mrs. Disney, who
covered her black velvet gown with a
silver-fox Cape stole, awarded prizes to
Mitta Hamilton, who had a live white
mouse enclosed in a soup-strainer to
form the crown of her chapeau (the mouse
was fed at intervals with cheese); Pat
Christie, who was almost submerged in
a huge silver Christmas-bell; and Sheila
Scales, whose effort was a spring-like con-
fection of cabbage leaves trimmed with
bunches of red-button radishes. Joan
Faulkiner won first prize in the pretty-
hat section with her halo and shoulder-
length trail of multicolored flowers.
Rosemary Winter Irving topped her
royal-blue velvet skirt and pastel-blue
blouse with a towering white ostrich-plume
number. Mary de Crespigny’s tailored
frock of white crepe and silver stripes
was matched with a bandeau in which
white and gold feathers were worn Red-
Indian fashion. Betty Noone’s dove-grey
satin gown provided contrast for the
champagne-bottle cover which formed
her unusual headgear. Among those who
danced were Mrs. Russell Coldham,
president of the V.S.B. Junior Auxiliary,
Mary Lewis, whose black taffeta gown
was gold-spotted, Mrs. Garnet Curwen,
in floral marquisette, Mrs. C. Ashley, who
had white lace over white marquisette,
Gloria Ladd, in ice-blue satin, and Mrs.
Norman Bush, her cream silk faille
striped in brown satin.
When Dinah, younger daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. H. Silk, of Windsor, was
married at the Toorak Presbyterian
Church to Hudson, only son of Mr. and
Mrs. H. Ralfs, of East St. Kilda, she wore
a beautiful gown of white satin, with the
bodice and wide skirt, which extended
into a slight train, embroidered in pearls.
Pearls were also embroidered on the satin
Juliet cap which held the long, filmy
tulle veil. Purple-tongued white orchids
formed the bouquet. Her sister, Mrs.
H. W. Sluice, wore a silver-blue satin
gown made with a full skirt; the bodice
had wide shoulder-straps to form the
sleeves. Pink orchids in her hair toned
with the trail of orchids she carried.
John Polack was best man. Later Mr.
and Mrs. Silk entertained almost 200
guests at a dinner-party at Giro’s. Mrs.
Silk’s gown of ice-blue satin had a
pleated skirt with side drapes ; opalescent
sequins and moonstones trimmed the
strapless bodice. Mrs. Ralfs’s slim-fitting
black gown had a border of gay flowers
at the hemline. Mrs. Ray Joseph’s
Grecian gown of white crepe romaine
was embellished with silver-bead trim-
ming. White satin gown delicately pat-
terned with green leaves was Mrs. Ken
Luke’s choice. Vera Pritchard’s white
pin-spotted navy tie-silk frock was ankle-
length ; the strapless top featured a folded
band of white grosgrain, and white
hyacinths on a white band filled in the
neckline. Mrs. Lou Joseph was in dove-
grey crepe, the bodice and waist trimmed
with tiny white beads. An ombre tulle
gown which graduated from deep brown
to palest beige was worn by Mrs. C.
Curtain. Mrs. Bill Gahan’s waterlily-
green satins were in the strapless mode.
Mrs. A. Silk’s black French-crepe gown
was cut on slim lines, with the dropped-:
shoulders line embroidered in silver and
copper-toned beads and sequins.
From Sydney
Sydney has seen the world premiere of
the 100 per cent. Australian ballet
“Corroboree” music, choreography,
dancers, scenery and concept, all pro-
'duced under the Southern Gross, and all
thoroughly suitable for export. There,
never was such a night. The Empire
Theatre looked as if it would need rubber
walls to accommodate the crowd, and the
street outside the theatre was lined with
diplomatic cars. (One of the advantages
of the location of the Empire is the
adjacent network of wide, deserted streets
and lanes convenient for parking.) By
the time “Corroboree” came on the house
had a delightfully tense expectancy. The
N.S.W. Symphony Orchestra, lent for the
occasion, was much too big for the
orchestra-pit, and curved out in a dragon-
tail along each side of the proscenium
arch to the edges of the lower boxes.
John Antill, hero of the night, conducted
his own composition. Despite the fact
that many of the dancers were girls, there
was a fine strutting male virility about the
entire performance. Looking round the
house one could see, mixed up with the
regular first-nighters, representatives of
all the arts and professions. It would be
easier to say who was not there than
who was.
One regrettable absentee was Dorothy
Helmrich, who, having worked like a
galley-slave for just this purpose, spent
the time in bed with the ’flu, and so was
denied the joy of seeing the culmination
of her fine effort on behalf of music and
ballet. His Excellency the Governor,
Lieut.-General Sir John Northcott, came
with daughter Elizabeth, who wore a
lovely white picture frock of brodcrie
Anglaise. They were met by John Antill
and his five-year-old daughter Jill, who
deserves a fashion-note of her own.
Wearing a Kate Greenaway frock of
pale-pink taffeta with an enchanting little
wreath of pink and blue flowers encirc-
ling her fair curls, she was a trifle
shy about presenting a posy to Miss
Northcott, but otherwise voted it a grand
night. Mrs. Antill, who accompanied her
husband, was in a green-blue satin
frock covered by a cerise velvet cloak.
The dressing was very good. A young
thing sitting in the row behind remarked
“The women have gorgeous furs tonight,”
to which her companion replied: “Yes,
and the men lovely beards.” Which was
quite true. The sprinkling of men in the
audience sporting beards looked nearly
as glamorous in their formal dress as the
befurred women they escorted. The
ballet costumes, consisting mainly of
brown stockinette topped by colorful
masks, were completely effective except
(and it seems ungracious to cavil at any-
thing which gave so much pleasure) for
the zip-fasteners which glittered snake-
like the whole length of the spine as the
dancers moved. A touch of lacquer down
the centre-back might obviate this.
The executive of the N.S.W. National
Opera, Inc., were guests at a luncheon in
the cellars “Sign of the Warrior Knight”
given by the directors of Rhine Castle. It
was a pleasant informal gathering at
which music and other matters of
■aesthetic interest were discussed. Eric
Langker explained the need for many more
people to become subscribers to National
Opera so that grand opera can be pro-
duced here with the abundant local talent
which otherwise makes its way overseas,
and frequently is virtually lost to us. Still,,
the committee says it is getting on nicely
with plans for an opera of our very own,
and intends soon to start giving auditions.
Mrs. C. T. Lorenz, a hard-working
member, was elegant in black. Mrs. J.
Jacobson wore a grey suit and Arctic-fox
furs, what time she chatted happily to
Frank McEachern, whose deep-toned
speaking voice was enough to proclaim
him a brother of the late Malcolm
McEachern. W. C. James and Dr. C. F.
Laidlaw added their quota of musical
gossip, and everybody took part in a
wine-tasting quiz. Subject, the dry wines
of their hosts, who were so excellent in
that capacity that no one really knew
when they had the wrong answers.
Oronsay, the Orient Line’s new vessel
for the Australia run, was launched on
Friday at Barrow-in-Furness, England, by
Mrs. I. A. Anderson, wife of the chair-
man of .Anderson, Green and Co.,
London managers of the line. Mrs.
Anderson was Alison Lysaght, daughter
of the late W. R. Lysaght, of John
Lysaghts of Sydney, and Mr. Anderson is
grandson of the founder of the Orient
Line. The new liner, complete with lots
of luxury fittings, is expected to make a
first voyage here early next year.
Off to England this month for a well-
earned holiday, Helen Halse Rogers,
executive secretary of the Council of
Sociaj, Services, intends to combine busi-
ness with pleasure by taking a refresher
course abroad before returning to
Sydney. A fellow-social-worker, Mary
McLelland, of Brisbane, who made off to
Canada recently to take up a job in
Montreal, proposes to take a course of
further study at McGill University.
The hew Legacy House in Castlereagh-
street, which has been in use for a fort-
night, was officially opened on Saturday
by the Governor, Lieut.-General Sir
John Northcott. Dr. Eric Blashki, p res i
dent of Legacy, said that the new build'
ing provided for all the needs of Legacy’s
various activities-—gymnasiums, dressing
rooms, library, offices, mother’s-room
kitchen, etc. The kitchen will be amv
to the women’s auxiliary, which provides
a midday meal for Legatees two days a
week, it is large and equipped with
plenty of modern labor-saving amenities
After the opening about 200 guests were
entertained with cocktails and savories in
the gymnasium by Dr. and Mrs. Blashki
There was only one woman graduate
this year in medicine and surgery at
Sydney University—she is Dr. Maxine
Caldwell, of Marrickville. Eldest of a
family of eight all intent on careers, she
is starting hers as resident medical officer
the only one,, at the Blue Mountains
District Hospital, Katoomba. Norton
Trevaire photo.
Speaking of hospitals, the ladies’
auxiliary of the Sydney Hospital got busy
and raised £2OOO to build a nice little
kiosk, which Colonel Alfred Spain, vice-
president of the hospital - , declared open
last Wednesday. The women present at the
opening were very anxious to rush inside
and admire the cheery pale-yellow wails
and nice fitments. Everyone agreed that
it will be a boon to hospital visitors,
and the shutters were thrown open
immediately, so that no business should
be lost.
And still more good news for hospitals,
at least for Royal Prince Alfred. It has
been announced that the Bankers’ Ball
will be held again in Sydney this year,
the first time since before the war. This
ball, an annual event, netted over £lO,OOO
in the jJast for R.P.A., which will again
benefit from this year’s proceeds. Troca-
dero is the chosen place, and August
28 the date. The Governor will be present
to receive the debs, and the committee
is determined that after such a long lapse
this first post-war ball shall surpass all
the Bankers’ Ball successes of the past.
A different, if not an entirely new, note
was struck "by the Anti-T.B. Association’s
social committee with their soiree
musicale held at the A.C.I. building in
William-street. A good idea carried out
with so much vigor deserved to be a
success, and this was an outstanding one
of the winter season. After an almost
unbroken round of balls, the soiree,
pleasantly informal and restful, made a
delightful and welcome change. The
apparently effortless informality resulted
from a lot of genuine hard work on the
part of the committee. Team-work
caused the show to run on oiled wheels.
Decorations, largely the responsibility of
Mrs. Tiny Canfield, were decidedly
tasteful. Ivy twined the banisters of the
curving stairway and hung: in festoons
from the balcony, while bowls of painted
gold and silver leaves were set about the
ballroom floor. Allen Barr, of Hoyts
Theatres, lent curtains and other useful
things to help the effects. Pnina Salzman,
wearing black lace over pink satin, pro-
vided beauty as well as music, and busy
committee-women prepared an appetising
supper by working in the kitchen at
A.C.I. most of the day. Husbands,
headed by Ralph Doyle, pulled their
weight, and the women wore their
loveliest clothes. Mrs. Millard Hagon,
president of the social committee, loose
positively regal in a tunic of antique
guipure lace over cream satin. Most o
the younger set of the committee were
present in the white frocks they had
to the Snow Ball. Marie Aukett, wi
her boyish haircut and looking as y
as a picture, was outstanding
bevy of pretty youngsters. Unable t
present. Dame Enid Lyons, wno i
patroness of the association, wired her
regrets. Among the
who prepared the supper was Mrs. ,
Bunning, Mrs. Roy Coote, M' s - s
Maher, Mrs. Reg Carmichael Mr.
Robert Noss and Mrs. Pierre Mann.


%xibc
FIRST IN 1888
No other Battery can match . . .
£xi
FIRST TODAY!
Exide’s 61 Years’ Experience
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
XA9.2S
PERSONAL ITEMS
That picturesque figure King O’Malley,
w ho was a foundation-member of the
Federal Parliament, helped to found the
Commonwealth Bank, moved the motion
t 0 secure the land on which Canberra
ow stands and represented S. Australia
and the Speck successively and rhetoric-
ally in various Parliaments, is still very
much on deck in Melbourne. One-time
Canadian cowhand who began in busi-
ness as a clerk in a New York bank, he
came to Australia in the ’nineties, and
vvas always first-class copy for newsmen
in his fighting days. He came out
0 f retirement into the news some years
back when, beard and all, he emerged on
one of Melbourne’s hottest and muggiest
days to take a Turkish bath. Last week
he reached his 93rd milestone.
What with polo and speedboat-racing
and admission to the South Australian
gar at 22. Arthur Campbell Rymill
hadn’t wasted much time, and now, at 42,
he’s Adelaide’s new Lud Mayor—one
of its youngest. Private in the Second
A.1.F., later commissioned and invalided
out with a knee injury before he could
get away, he did the next-best thing on
Naval Auxiliary Patrol outside Adelaide.
It was his natural element —in 1933 he
was at the wheel of Tortoise II when she
roared home to win the Australasian
speedboat championship, and had her
again the next year when she sank in
Outer Harbor after notching 70 m.p.h.
Ashore, he represented his State at the
Gold Cup polo tournament in Sydney in
1938. On Adelaide City Council for the
past 17 years, he’s director of several
companies and deputy-president of the
L.C.L.
After the first raid on Darwin Jap
fighters and bombers had it pretty well
their own way, with nothing much better
than Hudson bombers to spoil their fun.
Until, as the Jap formations opened out
to unload over town and aerodrome one
sunny morning, a wailing banshee flight
of Middle East Spitfires fell upon them.
Squadron-leader L. T. Spence, of Brisbane,
was in one, and had for company “Killer”
Caldwell and “Eluey” Truscott. Now
Spence, wing-commander, leads Aus-
tralia’s Mustangs over Korea.
“Macnell”: Commander in the latest
R.A.N. promotions-list, Ronald John
Robertson, D.S.C., has passed the most
difficult point of a naval career at 33.
That picturesque appellation, flag-
lieutenant, applies in practice to an
appointment which carries something
more than ability to attend socially on the
admiral—the flag-jack must be an expert
on that particularly efficient branch of
naval service, signalling. Before appoint-
ment to H. B. Farncomb, then Squadron
Commodore, in 1944, Robertson, a hefty,
genial six-footer, began a long communi-
cations course in England, completed it
just before the outbreak, and went to
British destroyer Malcolm as signal-boss
of the 16th Flotilla —and destroyers
manoeuvring at 25 to 30 knots need to
be sharp with their flags and W/T.
Robertson’s main signal in the next
months was “Open fire” —he was engaged
in Channel convoys, fought in close-range
work along the Dutch and Belgian coasts,
then in and out of Dunkirk. .Shifting to
Australian destroyer Napier in the
Mediterranean, signal-officer of the hard-
fought 7th Flotilla, he had his share
of Tobruk entries, and of another
evacuation—Crete. Then, the Eastern
Battle Fleet, and return home at the end
of 1942 to take his blue-water experience
into the office of the Director of Signal
Communications. In 1944 he was back
on the other side, on the staff of the naval
boss of the Normandy invasion forces;
and clewed up in Kiel leading a mobile
signals unit. He topped-off a hardly
restful war-service around Lingayen and
parts adjacent in cruisers Australia,
Shropshire and Hobart, and at the end
was aboard U.S.S. Missouri to see the
surrender signed.
“M.S.”; Lieutenant Hackney, of
N.S.W., turns out not to have been the
sole survivor of the massacre of 145
Australian and Indian troops at Parit
Sulong, in 1942, the dread details of
which came out at the trial of Japanese
war criminals at Los Negros. Reginald
Wharton, a builder, of Highett (Vic.),
has marks of bayonetings on his bbdy
and burns where petrol was poured on
him and lighted. An 18-year-old member
of the 2/29th Battalion, he told his
parents of his experiences when he first
returned from a p.-0.-w. camp, how he
was shot at by a firing squad and dragged
to the ground by the soldiers he was tied
to, was one of the heap on which petrol
was poured and lighted, how he was twice
bayoneted before he was kicked into
a pool of water and how he feigned death
for hours with his face in the water until
he was able to crawl away and was
picked up by friendly Chinese. He hasn’t
talked of his experiences for a long time,
preferring to forget them.
Back in Australia, Harry Frank Broad-
bent, who owns to a formidable string of
records in this country’s early aviation
history. First to complete, in 1931,
a flight solo from Brisbane to
Adelaide via Sydney and Mel-
bourne inside 24 hours, in the
same year he circumnavigated the con-
tinent in seven days, and in 1935 estab-
lished a new record by flying solo in a
Gipsy Moth from England to Australia
in just under seven days. Later he re-
duced his found-Australia record to three
days nine hours. During the late shindy
he ferried aircraft from Canada and the
U.S. to England and made three delivery
flights from America to Australia with a
Catalina, a Lodestar and a Mitchell. Now
he travels by sea, and his hobby of race-
horse owner-trainer has become a pro-
fession. Back in Melbourne as represen-
tative of the London Bloodstock Agency,
he intends to breed his own bloodstock
here.
Here’s Keith Murdoch’s (maybe Lord
Beaverbrook’s),budding rival —Peter Isaac-
son, now running a string of Melbourne
suburban newsheets with 29 employees,
all ex-servicemen. D.F.C., A.F.C.,
D.F.M. in the late war, captain of air-
craft, Pathfinder Force with R.A.F.
PETER ISAACSON.
Bomber Command, Peter, enthusiastic
and full of dash, is a very likeable x fellow,
and even during the height of his flying
fame was always easygoing and un-
affected, He was first known to Australia,
although born here, when he piloted the
first Lancaster bomber, the famed “Q for
Queenie,” to Australia, and flew it pretty
well from end to end of the continent on
War Loan tours, taking it under Sydney
Harbor Bridge on one occasion, the first
four-engined aircraft to duck under there.
Later he piloted John Curtin on his 1943
election campaign. An inveterate first-
nighter. v
William Warfield, the 30-year-old
American negro baritone touring here for
the A.8.C., makes a point of playing his
own accompaniments for encores, an
intimate touch that never fails to win
an audience. Of fine physique, son
of a Baptist minister, Warfield was
born in Arkansas. A high-school
competition win led to a musical
scholarship at the Eastman School in
Rochester, N.Y. On the solid foundation
he laid there he has built a colossal
repertoire, in which oratorio ranks high
—after all, such music is blood-brother
to the spiritual, without which no pro-
gramme of his would be complete. In
WILLIAM WARFIELD .
research work he has unearthed some
rare songs by such early Italian masters
as Monteverdi, and Australian audiences
will hear for the first time some of these
miniature masterpieces.
South Australia will need to find a
very'good man indeed to replace William
George Toop Goodman when he retires
as its Tramways Trust chief-engineer and
g.-m. at the end of the year. Few men
know more about Australian transport-
on most royal commissions concerned
with transport in Australia and Maori-
land, boss of South Australia’s tramways
since 1907, installed the first electric tram-
ways in ML. at Roslyn, and has been
called upon for advice by pretty well
every State. He drove the first electric
tram along Sydney’s George-street, the
first in Dunedin and the first in Adelaide.
Moreover, he made and drove a trolley-
bus before Sydney thought of them, and
he learned to fly in less than five hours
some 30-odd years back. Used to placing
guiding hands on big works in other
public affairs and saying very little about
it, he couldn’t escape the praise bestowed
on him by Curtin, Holt and the Com-
monwealth Manpower Committee for the
way he chaired the war-time S.A. Hous-
ing Trust. Now 78, still vigorous, in
appearance as distinguished as his service,
he added Kt. Bach, to the letters after his
name in 1932.
Commander lan Hunter McDonald,
R.A.N., driving frigate Shoalhaven round
Korea, is a signals expert who, as flag-
lieutenant to Rear-Admiral Pridham-
Wippell, served in three British battle-
ships in the war-time Mediterranean—
Malaya, Queen Elizabeth and Barham.
He was in the last-named 31,000-tonner
when, in November, 1941, the German
U 331 slipped a torpedo into her
bilges. Barham went down under the
eastern Mediterranean and McDonald
came home to take charge of Flinders
Signal School. He got some small-ship
time in destroyer Napier, in which he
finished the war. Given his brass hat
last year, he’s an aesthetic-faced 35 and
hails from Adelaide.
Francois de Castella, who was Vic-
torian Government Viticulturist for so
many years that to say Castella
immediately brought a vision of vine-
yards and wines, is to write a book
for the Australian Wine Board dealing
with the history and practices associated
witfi vine “sorts” which yield the grapes
from which wine is made. This study
is known technically as ampelography.
In an official report several years ago De
Castella said that the study and prac-
tical application of ampelography had
received far too little attention from vine-
planters in Australia. The apathy shown
on the subject during periods of large-
scale vineyard expansion had been “re-
markable and regrettable.” The book is
intended to preserve De Castella’s excep-
tional knowledge of scientific vine-
growing for future generations.
Shifting camp from tax-hound to tax-
helper, W. M. Brady, Senior Prosecuting
Officer of the Taxation Department till
his retirement last week, and one of the
taxmen who opened the Federal Tax
Department in 1915. In 20 years Brady,
matched against 40,000 tax-evaders, has
beaten ’em to the tune of some £2,000,000
in fines and penalties.' He hopes to sit
on the other side of the fence now by
setting up in Sydney as a tax-consultant.
Passed on in Perth at 72, Louis Edward
Shapcott, one of Westralia’s ablest!
organisers and planners. Born at
Kingston (Vic.), he moved in 1897 to the
Westralian Public Service, rising to secre-
tary to the Premier and first Under-
secretary to the Department when the
job was expanded. Tall, of imposing
stature, he was one of the most influential
men in the State at the time of his retire-
ment in 1941. While right-hand man to
seven successive Premiers, he also pre-
sided over the Perth Zoo and the State
Gardens Board, in which position he
planned W.A.’s lovely National Park. In
War I liaison-officer between Army and
Government, one of his toughest jobs
was organising relief during the
pneumonic flu outbreak in 1918, and he
handled another tough one of that sort
in the depression. On the pleasant side, he
organised arrangements for three Royal
visits—the Prince of Wales’s in 1920, the
present King and Queen’s in 1927 and the
Duke of Gloucester’s in 1934. His honors
included C.M.G., M.V.0., 1.5.0 and
Officer of the French Academy.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 77, knight Frederick Tout,
whose interests ranged from banking and politics
to law and grazing. Country-party M.L.C. for
14 years from 1932, son of a pioneer grazier of
Young (N.S.W.), he first made a name as a foot-
baller, and kept it made through later years with
directorships of half-a-dozen companies, presi-
dency of the ’Wales, heading a large Sydney
legal practice and presidency of the N.S.W.
Graziers’ Association. He will be missed round
Young, where just about every public body
throve under his tolerant competence and where
he built Wambanumbla into one of the finest
properties in the district.
At Jugiong (N.S.W.), in a car accident, Percy
James Telfer, boss of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer’s
interests in Victoria, S. Australia, Westralia and
Tasmania.' With M.-G.-M. for over 25 years,
Telfer was an Old Digger captain and M.C.
In Adelaide, at 30, Dr. John Stanley Gooden,
closing one of the most brilliantly promising
careers in the world of physics. Till recently
with Professor Oliphant directing construction
at the Nuffield Research Laboratory, Birming-
ham, of a proton-synchroton, one of the world’s
most powerful atom-splitters, Gooden was a
B.Sc. at 20 (credit in every subject), and at 21
gained top first-class honors in physics. Joining-
up in 1942, he was discharged for radar research
with the C.5.1.R., and at the cease-fire was given
a three-years scholarship at Birmingham by
Prof. Oliphant for research on nuclear physics.
He finished his scholarship a Doctor of
Philosophy, at 28.
At 71, in Brisbane, F. J. Daly, newspaperman
and father of newspapermen. He was on the
old Brisbane “Daily Mail” and “Daily Stan-
dard” himself; one son, L.V., is on the
“Courier-Mail,” the other, F. 8., until recently
editor of the “Sunday Mail,” is now associate-
editor of Melbourne “Sun.”
In Sydney, at 58, Captain Peter Johnson.
He fought in Bolivia, went away with the first
A.1.F., was in the Archangel expedition, in the
Spanish Civil War on Franco’s side, and was
Camp Quartermaster, L.H.Q., Melbourne, during
World War II (when he insisted on debiting
General Blarney’s paybook for extra badges).
In between wars he journeyed -1000 miles up
the Amazon.
At 72, in Melbourne, John Beacham Kiddle,
one-time leading figure in the legal, commercial
and charitable life of the city. President of the
Law Institute of Victoria, he received 0.8. E.
for his services in War I to the Red Cross.
He was the author of War Services of Mel-
burnians, 1914-18.
At 83, in Melbourne, Rev. William Huey
Steele, one of the Presbyterian Church’s lead-
ing figures for two generations. Born at
Portarlington, he was an electrical-engineer and
lecturer in science before he entered the
ministry. He won the first award in the British
Ejnpire Research scholarship scheme.


Foxes Don't Wait
BY DAVID CAMPBELL
WHEN John Clement drew a block
under the mountains and went to
settle there, it was the stillness of
the place that frightened him. He
bought a prefab, hut from the Army for
twenty pounds and set it up on a sheep-
camp among lazy gum-trees. The only
reason he worked so hard at it was to
break the monotony. Whenever he
paused, leaned on the ridge-pole and
looked out across the pepper-and-salt
paddocks his mind stopped work, too. The
sunlight fell down from the bleached sky
like a backdrop ; the trees stood still;
the only movement was the thin
shimmer of heat on a humped horizon.
He had an impulse to climb down and
shake the trees with his hands. It was
the countryside of dream and he was the
sleepwalker. He wondered how long he
could stand this clambering about on a
still-life.
When the hut was finished he furnished
it like the flight-office up north; a couple
of stretchers, aircraft photographs, the
shattered blade of an enemy fighter ; and
wired for his wife. They had married
late in the war and had been separated
so often that he hardly knew her. After
a week in the hut she decided that she
did not know him at all.
I T was the fox that woke him up, leap-
I ing through his numbness like a lion
through a paper hoop.
He was riding at noon through a litter
of stumps and fallen timber when his
horse suddenly shied and stood alert and
trembling under his heel. John Clement
swore, sat still. Intent in the fanged shade
ahead, a fox crouched, lithe and red. It
was being attacked by magpies.
The magpies stalled high in the clear
air in a flurry of feathers, winged over,
and came in sleekly, steeply, down the
shafts of light. The brush of the fox
pulsed, tipped with white, and it snap-
snapped over its shoulder at the passing
birds. Its quiet body was curled and
poised like a flexed spring.
Clement relaxed in the saddle and a
cool light leapt in his eyes. He was
watching the tactics of the birds. They
came in together, one out of the sun, the
other low and swiftly from between the
trees. And the fox sprang softly in a
gyre with sneered-back lips. It turned
and trotted low through the blonding
grass, trailing its brush. And in a gust
of wind the whole hillside seemed to
move like the fur of an animal.
Clement galloped home through the
living grass to get his rifle.
In the hut he found his wife swaying
through brightly-lit halls in a new silk
dress. Auburn light flickered in her
brushed hair and there were flecks of
gold in brown eyes.
“How do I look?” she said, swaying.
“Just seen a fox,” Clement said.
“Where’s my rifle? God damn it, Jo;
what have you done with it this time?”
“Sit down, just for a minute, and ad-
mire me. And then I’ll tell you.”
“Look, Jo, foxes don’t wait in-
definitely.”
But he sat down.
“Do you like it?” Jo was standing with
her legs apart looking down at herself.
She smoothed her thighs. Then, raising
straight eyes, she said, “What’s happened
to you, anyway? You look like you used
to look.”
“Try the other,” Clement said.
And when the skirt was over her head
so that she was tied up in silk, Clement
picked her up laughing and laid her down
struggling among the boxes and tissue-
paper on the bed. It was the first time
they had been happy since the war.
Later Clement said, “You know that
fox, Jo? I don’t think I’ll shoot it after
all. There’s something about that fox I
rather like. It’s alive,”
And he smoothed her rusted hair with
forgotten tenderness.
“You’re as cunning as a fox yourself,”
Jo said. “Try the other one! ”
CLEMENT saw the fox quite often
through the summer and autumn of
that year. On the stone hill, going
through the sheep for.fly, he would look
up, and there on a ledge where brittle-
jacks grew gold and naked towards the
light would be the fox. Its incurious
stare, surprised there in sunlight, and
surprising, pleased him. The fox lived its
own life and he lived his. And the gold
•trees grew from stone.
Clement was no longer mocked by the
stillness, by an image of fruitless eternity,
through the long quiet days. There was
a sense of growth, of strife ; and life was
hard and joyous.
“You know ...” he said one night,
lying on his back and listening to the
magpies singing to the full-moon. All
around the hut he could hear his sheep
cropping the grass with a soothing sound
like the slapping of small waves. The fog
rolled around the valley like a tide.
“I know what?” Jo said.
“Listen to the magpies, Jo.”
“Do I know what?” Jo sat up in bed
and began tickling him. “I won’t stop
until you tell me.”
“Well, I’ll tell you ... to stop.”
And they fought, “Oh, no, you don’t” —
laughing, until Clement pinned her strong
hands and kissed her.
“There,” he said. “That’s it. No, not
quite. Almost. Better try again.”
“What do you mean: not quite;
almost? No, John, not until you tell
me.”
“Jo, you look sweet by moonlight. You
can’t see your freckles. Let me see your
face. One there, there ...”
“No, John, you must tell me.”
“But I love your freckles, Jo.”
He was surprised by his own sincerity.
Beauty is a complete thing. It is often for
its blemishes that we feel the greater
tenderness.
“No, John.”
Clement tossed on to his back and read
DI; DI, by moonlight on the roof-
sections of the hut.
“You wouldn’t understand,” he said.
“It’s just this: that sometimes when we
make love I feel very close to the
animals; and that this is right. The fox
in its red cave under the hill is probably
doing the same thing.”
“And to the trees?” Jo said.
“Yes. And to the trees.”
“And the flowers?”
“All right,” Clement said.
“No, but really, John: we’re not foxes.
We can’t go on living this way in-
definitely ; not in this hut.”
“You know the set-up about
materials,” Clement said. “They’re all on
order. It’s no use panicking.”
“But, John, you don’t try. You ride
around all day thinking of your sheep—
and of that damned fox. I’ve watched
you. But what about me? Sometimes the
thought of that fox gets on my nerves.”
“They’re all on order,” Clement said.
“Winter’s coming, John. And what if
we should have a baby?”
“We’re not having a baby,” Clement
said. ‘So why talk about it?”
He .turned over and for a long while
felt his Wife’s body lying frozen at his
side. About midnight the sheep scattered
from around the hut with a sound like
leaves in a gale. He heard his sheep-
dog rattle a ghost-chain, startling the
night with its barking ; and near by, from
among the pallid gum-trees, the yap of a
fox.
THE next morning it was as though the
moonlight had frozen: The summer-
grass swept the hill like spindrift, dis-
solving in the light; the chips around the
woodheap were furred; in shadow, the
valley lay dead under the frost.
Jo Clement was sick in the bathroom
leanto in a bucket of ice. But she said
nothing to her husband. He drove off to
town to see about materials.
And winter came down.
“You do nothing—nothing,” Jo said.
The wind swept out of a desolate centre
and bellowed like a lost calf under the
piles of the hut,
“Nothing—nothing.”
They were sitting crouched around the
squat stove for warmth. Clement looked
at his wife’s flat hair and was reminded of
dead grass. Her eyes had become still
and secretive. He stood up.
“I can’t do more,” he said. “The shed
will be finished next month. I’ll line it
and it’ll be better than here. I can’t do
more until the builders come. And it’s
no use trying to lay iron in this wind.”
“Shed! ” Jo said. “A pig wouldn’t live
in it. And what were you doing all
summer? Moping about thinking of
foxes.”
And malice struck a match in her eyes.
“I’ve had enough,” Clement said.
He stalked out into the wind.
There, perched, battering at the shed’s
skeleton, he looked out across the valley
at his stone hill. A scrap of snow had
fallen on its weather side. He rode out
and found his first winter lamb. The
ewe stood with her tail into the wind and
the lamb butted between the sheep’s front
legs. Clement was tempted to catch the
ewe and put the lamb on her dugs. He
rode the lambing-paddocks and turned
home.
The birth of their first lamb brought
them closer together; and that evening,
hunched over the stove, Jo watched him
curiously,
“I think I know what you meant that
night,” she said, “I’m sorry I nagged,”
“Which night was that?”
Clement was busy in the globe of light
about the oil-lamp, , working out an
estimate of the coming lambing.
“With any luck,” he said, “we’ll have
eight hundred lambs this year. Then
there’ll be no trouble about getting a
house built.” He looked over at his wife.
She was sitting, her' knees slightly
spread, by the open grate, gazing through
wide pupils into the warm heart of the
coals.
“That’s what I make it: eight hundred
lambs.”
The next morning he found twelve dead
lambs curled in the frost,
FOR seven days there were frosts, hard
frosts, under high still cloud, that set
till midday in the hollows and scarred the
ground. As they melted, the grass seemed
to melt away with them. On the
seventh day, Clement’s ewes in the hill
paddock began to go down.
The crows found them first.
When he rode out over the hill on his
morning round, there were more crows in
the paddock than sheep. He went from
one cluster of shining birds to the other,
the birds hopping, spry, lifting out the
wool with forcepbeaks and striking for
the live eye and kidney. At his approach,
they scattered like flung soot on to the
dead limbs of the trees. Their cries were
harsh, and colder than the frosts. And
their eyes were blue.
Clement rode home for his skinning-
knife.
He skinned four cast ewes, dressed the
eye-sockets of two others and carried
three lambs home. He found them on the
hillside butting for milk at the trunks of
trees while crows waited on the limbs
Jo treated them as if they were her
own children.
Look at him, John,” she said. “Look
at his tail. Doesn’t it go! ”,
She was kneeling by the stove and the
lamb was feeding from her fingers in a
basin of warm milk, his foal-legs, braced
and his tail tying itself in bows. Clement
looked down at his wife. Behind the
tenderness in her eyes was a glint of some-
thing else, of fierce and stubborn pro-
tectiveness.
Twice that night she woke him up
“Are they warm, John? Have a look
Is the bag over them?”
“For God’s sake, Jo,” Clement said.
“I’ve got to be up before dawn
tomorrow.”
Riding over the hill at the hungry
hour, the trees stealthy, the light swelling
up behind, and hearing the crack and
break of ice under hooves, Clement found
three cast ewes before the crows. A
fourth had lost an eye, and when he de-
livered her lamb he found that its tongue
had been pecked out. He swung it against
a log, wondering how much his horse
understood of it.
He skinned the ewe, punching off the
luminous skin with his fist. And looking
down at the stripped frame, its shell of
ribs and oyster-coil of guts, he wondered
again, thinking, this is it —despite our
delicacy and high dreaming.
All morning he followed the crows, and
at lunch-time rode home with one lamb
kicking on the pummel.
When he reached the hut he thought
that his wife had gone crazy. Her face
had fallen to pieces and she was in
hysterics. Her red hair, damp from weep-
ing, hung in knots about her cheeks.
“Take it away,” she cried. “Don’t
bring it here. Don’t dare,”
“But, Jo ... ”
“Don’t dare.”
He let the lamb go, and it nuzzled
around the hind-legs of his horse. In
the hut he found the three lambs as if
sleeping in their warm-box by the stove.
He touched a shining doll’s-hoof and the
whole lamb moved stiffly. He buried the
four of them in a post-hole tor the but,
and tried to comfort his wife; but she
was sullen.
AFTER lunch she said in the precise
clipped tones of her mother, “Where
are you going, John?”
“To the paddocks, Jo.”
“What about the shed?”
“The shed! Don’t you realise, Jo: out
there there’s a ewe going down every
quarter-hour? Look at the crows.”
“That’s all very well,” Jo said in a hard
voice. “But I’ve got to have some place
to live.”
Clement dug his heels into his horses
flanks and galloped down the slope into
the valley. When he returned after dark,
Jo was dressed in her new silk dress.
“I’m sorry, John,” she said. “I was a
bitch.” . . ..
Th,e lights were back in her hair, the
hut looked the way it used to look and
there were a cocktail-shaker and two
glasses on the small curved antique-table
between their chairs.
“I thought we might go to town tor
dinner,” Jo said. “I’d like to.”
“Jo, it’s late,” Clement said. He threw
his hat into the corner and slumped
down into a chair still wearing his | re £.'
coat. Running his fingers through ’ s
hair, he could smell the smell or ew -
flesh. “And I’m dog-tired, Jo. Ive go
to be back in the paddocks early
tomorrow.” . . .
He looked up from unlacing his boors
and saw a ghost of the morning b<
the soft powders and rouge on his w
bright face.
“Have a drink,” she said. _ f
She had mixed four of gin to one or
vermouth.
QITTING in the lounge of the
O mercial —waiting for more har d
after dinner, his arms along the nar


crescent arms of the bucket-chair,
wanting another drink and feeling
the excitement leak out of him
like the dribble of beer over the
edge of the rmg-stamed table ; suddenly
hating the cubed orange-black-and-gold
0 f the square cheap chairs and
rectangular couches, the weeping palms
and drab gilt, but most of all the suited
card-men at their stones, the gossip-
knitting wives and their husbands
cornered in an angle of the news—
Clement leaned over and took his wife’s
hand. He smiled at her and said, “You’re
enjoying yourself aren’t you, Jo?”
And, meeting her eyes, his excitement
returned on a Wave of tenderness.
“You’re the only girl for me, Jo,” he
said. “You make (his place seem like
Prince’s. I’d like to dance, wouldn’t you?”
“Look at that woman s hat,” Jo said,
“John you wouldn’t believe it!”
“Look away, quick! Clement said.
“He’s coming over.’
The heavy, mild, horse-missing
countryman pursing over coffee with the
woman had risen and was riding-off
chairs towards them.
, t u ™
uW OU RE John Clement, he said.
I His handshake was firm, like a
grip on reins, and his eyes were mild and
direct. “I met you at the last sheep-sale,
My wife and I were wondering if you’d
join us for coffee?”
“Unfortunately”—Clement said, rising.
He introduced Jo.
“Wilton,” the man nodded. “Peter
Wilton,
“Unfortunately, Mr. Wilton, we’ve
ordered coffee already.”
Clement kept his pyes firmly on Jo.
“Well, that’s all right. I’ll tell the
waiter tO' bring it over.
“We’d love to,” Jo said.
Clement walked over to the other table
still looking at his wife.
“A hard season,” Wilton nodded. He
crossed heavy thighs and turned sideways
towards Clement as if still in the saddle,
talking through cigarette smoke. His
eyes looked through the smoke, long-
sighted and kind. “You’re unlucky to
strike it like this your first year” He
pulled at the knee of his trousers,‘watch-
ing the smoke rise. “We’re having some
trouble with the lambing over our way.
How’s yours going?
“No trouble,” Clement said. “None at
all.”
The bastard, he thought. He’s engag-
ing me in conversation. Mrs. Wilton was
looking at Jo from under her hat and
asking her if she kept fowls,
“Then you’re lucky,” Wilton said
looking at Clement. He bad thought him
a decent stamp of young man
“1 expect it’s all a matter of manage-
ment,” Clement said. And he met
Wilton’s eye.
Mrs. Wilton sat forward when she
heard the change in her husband’s voice ;
a plain, tired, nervous woman who found
conversation difficult and talked too
much. She smiled through and beyond
Clement and fluttered her gloves. The
hat sat over one eye.
“I was just asking Mrs. Clement if she
kept fowls,” she said,
“No,” said Clement. “But she’s
jealous of a fox.”
And, suddenly sick of himself, he said,
Excuse me, please,” and walked out into
the hall. As he left he heard Mrs
Wilton say, “Jealous of a fox! What a
curious thing to say. Oh, I see ” And
she began to laugh,
I N the hall Clement bought the morning
1 paper from a boy behind the desk. He
took the pajTer, paused and said, “Never
trust a man with blue eyes, son.” i
“You’ve got blue eyes yourself,” the
boy said.
“Never trust him.”
He gave the boy two shillings and
walked into the reading-room muttering,
“There you are: pots of dough; money
to burn! Just paid two shillings for a
paper.”
In a deep chair he spread out the paper,
closed one eye and said, “Tricked you
that time, didn’t I! ” The double lines of
print had converged,
Reading the headlines with one eye, he
speculated on the possibility of another
war. He wondered what Jo had done
with his uniforms. ~
“They’re doing very nicely,” he said to
Jo over the paper when she came in.
■ “John, what are you talking about?
I’ve been looking for you everywhere.
You’ve insulted Mr. Wilton, who’s nice
and kind. And what a silly thing to say
about that fox.”
She was flushed and angry.
“I’m sorry, Jo. Really 1 am. I didn’t
mean a thing.” And he drew her down
towards him. “Let’s not fight. It was
just—well, we were having a good time,
do you know what Wilton said to
me?” He began to laugh, “He asked mb
if I was having any trouble with my
sheep.”
“Don’t, John,” Jo said. She was sitting
on the arm of the chair smoothing his
hair. “Do you know what the Hat asked
me? She asked me if I was having a
baby.”
Clement sprang forward to the edge of
the chair and said, “There you are!
That’s just it. You can’t put up with it.”
Then, shutting one eye and frowning,
gauging, troubled, he said, “You aren’t
having a baby, are you, Jo? You’re
getting a bit of a pot, you know. You’re
not. having a baby, are you, Jo?”
“You don’t want one, do you, John?”
Jo was smoothing his hair.
"No,” he said.
‘Then I’m not having one. You kppw
Id do anything for you, John.” *
“All this talk about babies,” Clement
said. “We must keep away from those
Wiltons. Let’s have a drink. No, give me
a kiss.” AmJ he pulled her down into the
No, not here, John. Hat might come
111 . 5
Then in the car.”
And they got up and, walked out under
the steel light of the neon over the street
d° or -
HE next morning Clement was late
getting out into the paddocks. There
was a fog, heavy and woollen, and
occasionally a corner of the fog would lift
revealing an acre of white ground, the
white trees, and logs, cast like sheep, in
a fur of frost. The fog was cold with the
cry of crows; and in the rifts Clement
could see their black wings beating the
mist.
It was his worst morning so far. He
stumbled on six crow-torn, ewes, and
skinning them, running the knife cleanly
down the insides of their legs, and feeling
other knives under his fingernail, he
thought that it was very like the war.
You were frightened the first few days
and then you got used to it. But if you
had a break and came back to it, it was
like starting all over again.
While he was skinning the last ewe, the
mist swirled and lifted. And there in the
gap, on the stone hillside, was the fox.
It was crouched over the dead body of a
lamb in much the same attitude as he was
bending over the carcass of the ewe. And
as the gap widened it raised its head and
looked at him. Clement noticed that the
trunks of the trees, that had been gold in
summer, had paled to grey and were
stained with crimson on their windw'ard
side. Then the mist flapped down again.
* He rode home for breakfast and found
that Jo was having trouble with the stove.
She was excited and nervous.
“Six of ’em this morning,” he said,
“torn to bits by crows. And how many
more under this fog I don’t know.”
“Don’t tell me about them. Don’t tell
me. I don’t want to know.”
There was a wild light of fear in her
brown eyes.
To change the subject, Clement said,
“I saw that fox this morning. It had
killed a lamb.”
“What did I tell you ! ” Jo said. “There
you are!” She was standing over the
cold stove and her eyes were unnaturally
bright. There was a shrill note of despair
in her voice, despair and triumph.
Clement noticed again the heaviness of
her body. “There, I told you.”
“You told me nothing,” Clement said.
AFTER breakfast he took down the
** rifle and rode out across the valley.
The fog had lifted and hung in a steel
dome over the hill. Beneath it, crows
flew in loose scattered formations, wing-
ing down into the grey trees.
Half-way up the hill a ewe had just
gone down. She had a lamb half de-
livered and crows sat in a patient ring
around her. Clement took the lamb by
its forelegs and dragged it from the ewe’s
belly, warm and yellow and living, and
slapped its*thin chest until it staggered up
among the sticks and leaves. He walked
the ewe until she could stand, sat her
down and placed the lamb under her
neck. When the ewe began licking the
lamb he knew that everything was all
right. So we come into the world, he
thought, haunted by a mystery.
He left his horse on the hillside and
clambered up the crest on foot. A deep
gully scarred the weather side, and he saw
the fox loping up the gully between the
yellow-box roots, trailing its brush, its
sharp nose lowered towards the sheep-
pad. Every now and then the fox paused,
listening, scenting the one-mile wind.
Clement followed it with the rifle, and
when it paused the next time he fired.
The fox shied up the bank, sneering
back its lips, and came on up the hill. It
galloped suddenly at right-angles between
the stones, and paused. It had not seen
Clement. Clement fired again, hearing the
soft pulpy thud of . the bullet. The fox
clawed itself over a boulder, dragging
the weight of its body along with its fore-
paws. Its lips were drawn back in a
smile of pain.
Clement ran out from behind the
brushwood and found the fox rolled
over, showing a long scarf of white down
the front of its body. He saw the crimson
froth spreading out, and the darker blood
overflowing it and staining the frost. And
all the exhilaration went out of him.
HE sat down on the boulder beside the
fox and felt the warmth of its body.
As it cooled and stiffened, he sensed an
irreparable loss.
We prey on one another, he thought.
Tooth and claw and rifle.
Below, above the dead grip of the
frost, he saw the crows flying ; and a mag-
pie alight into wind and step in carefully
on stick-legs to peck at the carcass of a
ewe.
He sat there for some time, looking
down, and feeling the rising of the wind.
And then he saw the lambs playing.
There were twenty of them together
around a fallen tree and they were using
it as a springboard. They would run up
the log and prop and half-turn back ; and
leap in turning, high, to land stiff-jointed
on the desolate ground ; playing while the
ewes grazed the frost and the wind blew
with the first bitterness of spring.
Clement rode on around his sheep
while the wind broke up the sky, trailing
gigantic shadows.
VARIOUS VERSE
MOKIE’S MADRIGAL.
Some little boys get shushed all day,
Can’t make noises when they play,
All they do is just annoy—
I want to be a paper-boy:
Paper-boys can ride and ride
Free on all the trams outside;
No one shushes when they sing.
They can shout like anything:
Sunamirra! Murdafiar!
Pyar, pyar! Wannapyar?
Tirra lirra, tirra lirra!
Murdafiar! Sunamirra!
Some little boys can never get
All the ice-creams they could eat;
Paper-boys don’t ask their Mums —
They’ve got bags of treys and brums:
When a paper-boy is full
He goes and buys a bicycle—
Poppa, Poppa, let me out
To be a paper-boy and shout;
Sunamirra! Murdafiar!
Pyar, pyar! Wannapyar!
Tirra lirra, tirra lirra!
Murdafiar! Sunamirra!
Some little boys can never go
Everywhere they’re wanting to;
Paper-boys can choose their track.
Hop on their bikes and not come
back—
Poppa, Poppa, don’t you see
How you can get rid of me?
No more Mokie, no more noise,
Only other paper-boys’:
Sunamirra! Murdafiar!
Pyar, pyar! Wannapyar?
Tirra lirra, tirra lirra!
Murdafiar! Sunamirra!
N.S.W.
RONALD McCUAIG.
PEACE.
When I had tired of the wars around
me,
Longing for forgetfulness, the softness
of arms and breasts,
I could not close my ears to the thunder
of the living.
But tonight history has ceased to cry
out within me.
My white flag of truce is hoisted, my
arms are thrown to the ground,
My back is turned to the cannon and
here I surrender.
*
The hunger of generations is nothing
now? Nothing.
The brotherhood of heroes? The know-
ledge of vast constellations?
I have rejected my vision and re-
nounced prophecy.
Love is the final quality, love and not
courage.
Not the love of the gentiles, the cruci-
fied love of disciples,
But the love of my love: it has silenced
a thousand unwritten poems.
I have sought peace in war, serenity
in struggle, pity in hatred.
I shall search no longer, the lights are
turned down.
Only faintly, faintly, I still hear the
marching step of the unborn,
Feet, feet moving, moving. Dearest,
dearest.
N.S.W.
DAVID MARTIN.
AS THE ROCK CROUCHED.
As the rock, crouched
in the marbled deep,
rears streaming, let me
identity keep.
As the shag glides
below the wave’s crest
and walks on the water
to come to its rest,
the shag diving down
where the breaker is spent,
the shag looking out
from its element,
let me be: to myself
as the rock, as the bird,
beyond human need,
torment of its word.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.
THE WHITENESS OF GULLS.
What means this unity of opinion?
Here, the white launches at anchor;
here, the white gulls!
In any conventional picture of the
dominion
Of pleasure-craft, safe, where each
breaker lulls
To a ripple across the bar, there are
the gulls.
Why aren’t these birds plumed crimson?
Why are they white like the boats?
Parrots that throng the foreshore,
thick, in the carbeen
Or the Moreton Bay figs, out-vie in
their Joseph’s coats
The nautical garb of the seagulls.
These stay with the boats.
And withal they look spick and span:
To a man they look seaworthy; free of
the mess ,
That limes the feet of the parrots. Birds
that are clean
As sailors ashore in. uniform, in tropical
dress.
Why this whiteness of gulls? Can a
landsman guess?
No—-it is beauty only, provides an
answer:
Harmony with the boats. Say what
you may
Of the laws of preservation; of dis-
tances; danger
That these would be obscured if green
or grey:
The whiteness of gulls is a symbol that
haunts the sea.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
THE INVADERS.
When we first came here, like a heart
the forest
opened leaf by leaf to let us in
and folded us close in a ring of cool
flame.
But it was death to be lost so. It was sin
that looked at us out of the faces of
the wild lilies,
saying. Why are you afraid? this is
your home.
And in the silence of that deep heart
our hearts
began to beat slower and our blood to
slow
with the fear that overtook us. When
we first came
the forest stood in the dust where we
stand now.
The green shadow of fear fell down
from our axes
and crumbled into dust that the winds
blow.
When we came here the native women
met us
and opened like black flowers to our
lust
leading us down into a forgotten night.
We fell beside them and were lost.
Their faces were the faces of the
strange lilies
watching in the forest at the edge of
sight,
their bodies were the gentle mud of
swamps
where wreathing dreams of fever hide,
or they were like the black snakes
that rear to bite.
That shining beckoning darkness at our
side
said always, Forget; wander in silence;
cease and be still.
And that was why we killed, and why
they died.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


' .-Vi
; :
Field Glasses (imp.)
“Faliez” France
A new draft of field glasses has been imported
to Proud’s Optical Department, First Floor.
By “Faliez”, out of France, they’re bred to
give a longer life of service in all sporting
fields. Lenses are bloomed, i-bloomed or clear.
Now available in three magnifications: 8 x 26,
8 x 30 and 8 x 32. Complete in a neat
leather case with detachable lanyard. Prices
range from £l2/10/- to £lB/10/-.
Available in
magnifications:
8 x 26, 8 x 30. 8 x 32
• Also up for inspection at Proud’s Optical
Department is a range of field glasses which
includes other world-famous names. All are in
a full range of magnifications and prices.
d
fdf
Proud’s Limited, Corner of King and Pitt Streets, Sydney. Telephone, BW 2721.
u
AVO'°
DO*
SH*
CLO c ,
use
EM
longer.
LAST
SMOOTHER
SHAVE
d
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
■■National’ Rotary Duph
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. P |ans '
Music, etc.
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
JACKSON & omtlvlN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Jitalbuling Atcnis—
BTDNEV
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C Penfold St Co. ™
Norman Bros. P r
Vardon & Son«
Docket Book Co.
The Sale of a Car Owner
By E. O. Schlunke.
JT\ LEX STONE’S
rj fellow - teachers
\ | had warned
him about the
dangers of taking his
car to Rigman’s.
“It will be like carry-
ing gold, unarmed and
unescorted, through the
Kelly country,” they
said, laughing in that
rather acid manner that teachers
who don’t own cars use when
speaking to those who do.
But since Rigman had sold him
the car originally, and his men
had always serviced it, and each
time he had seen it there he had
professed to take a great interest
in it, he decided to take it there
first. He was considerably re-
lieved when Rigman’s face ex-
pressed, not the rapacity he’d ex-
pected, but the gravest concern,
and even sympathy.
“My gosh,” Rigman said, go-
ing so close and looking him so
straight in the eyes that his
sincerity could not be doubted,
“you certainly have the lousiest
luck. If you’d only come last
week I could have given you a
rattling good price. But the
market for ’thirty-five Vampires
has folded right up. Everybody’s
got so much money that they
want newer and better cars.”
He looked Stone so straight in
the eye all the time, and his
face was so troubled ; he seemed
to sense the desolation that was
creeping up into his soul. He
said, just like a mourner after a
funeral:
“If only you’d come in sooner.
Only last Monday I saw you
drive past and I thought to my-
self, ‘Now, if Mr. Stone was
willing to cash in on that car
of his I could get him some-
thing really good.’ I had two
people inquiring for ’thirty-five
Vamps then. But since then no
one’s shown the slightest in-
terest.”
A flicker of hope went through
Stone. If people wanted ’thirty-
five Vamps so badly only last
week, there’d be sure to be some-
one left who still wanted one.
Those people who drove about
in old four-cylinder tourers
would be thrilled to have a six-
cylinder sedan that had quite a
show of shine and streamlining.
He looked up at Rigman and
there he was ready to wrap him
up in his coils of sympathy
again. Stone, who thought he’d
come prepared to combat crafti-
ness, cunning and trickery, found
it hard to say the things he’d in-
tended to. say, and knew he
ought to say.
Everywhere Rigman’s em-
ployees were shutting doors,
locking up desks, removing
overalls and going off home in
that frantic haste employees
have everywhere, particularly
where they work for hard bosses.
“Well, it’s a bit late now,” he
said, having arranged it that
way so that he wouldn’t be sub-
jected to Rigman’s barrage for
too long before a chance of
escape. “You’ll be wanting to
get away home.”
“Oh, it won’t take a moment
if you really want to sell,” Rig-
man assured him, a bit harder
now; hinting that Stone was
only a trifler; letting him see
how small a matter it was to
him, and how indifferent he was.
“I could write you a cheque in
a minute. B.ut all I could give
you is two hundred and ninety
pounds.”
j T was quite as bad as the
1 preliminaries had led him to
expect; bad enough to stir up the
spirit of revolt.
“Well, no,” Stone replied, re-
membering again those eager
inquiries of last week, but not
quite sufficiently fortified to tell
him he wanted to make inquiries
elsewhere. “I’d like to think
about it for a while.”
Rigman looked at him, still
sympathetically but with a sug-
gestion of calculation in those
straight-looking, rather protrud-
ing pale-brown eyes.
“You can drop in at my place
any time tonight, or give me a
ring after you’ve talked it over
with your wife.” This with the
right modulation of the voice
for men who had to talk business
deals over with their wives.
“I’m not going home,” Stone
told him, with his own little bit
of triumph. “I’m going to the
Rotary Club dinner.”
He felt that he’d scored off
Rigman there, because although
Rigman considered himself to
be the biggest car-dealer in the
town, it was his rival who’d had
the honor to be elected to repre-
sent the automobile interests in
the club.
But Rigman did not flinch;
he only looked interested, as if
he knew that Stone was harbor-
ing private intentions of using
the fellowship of the Rotary Club
to worm a better price out of
Espinall.
“Ha!” he said, significantly
avoiding the matter. “I believe
you have some pretty good times
there.”
“Oh, yes. Lots of good-
fellowship.” Stone became ex-
pansive now that the coils were
loosening. “Getting to know
your fellow-townsmen better.
You’d be surprised to know what
good fellows they are, and what
an interest they take in the ideals
of service.” Then in a spirit of
malice he added, “Espinall is a
member, you know. He gave
a talk on Vocational Service last
week; you know, how a man
can help the community through
straight and honest methods of
conducting his business. Very
good it was, too.”
“Ha,” said Rigman again,
showing even greater interest,
but he didn’t say a word of dis-
paragement about Espinall
though at other times he acted
as if he could hardly forbear to
vomit at the sound of his name.
It was a well-known fact that the
two car-dealers hated and des-
pised each other. Stone felt
that he was scoring right and
left. Then in his new elation he
had a great idea.
“Members can take along a
guest,” he said, watching Rig-
man closely, “particularly a man
who might be interested in the
ideals of Rotary, Would you
like to come along and be my
guest for tonight?”
Rigman’s eyes lit up,
“My word, yes, I would,” he
said.
“Good,” said Stone, greatly
elated at having secured so
prominent a citizen, and even
beginning to think that taking
him out might result to his own
advantage in the matter of the
sale of the car. “You meet me
at the Civic Hall at six-thirty.
I’ve just got time to do a little
job before them.”
AND off he rushed, but he
planned his return so that he
could pass Espinall’s house on
the way to the dinner and walk
the last street with him. Espin-
all, forgetting the prestige of his
reputed great wealth, greeted
him by his first name in the
accepted Rotary manner, and
was full of the Rotary good-
fellowship spirit. So Stone
gave one of those chuckles which
come so readily to a certain type
of member when a matter of
club ethics is involved.
“Since we’re not at the hall
yet,” he said, “I suppose I can
mention a matter of business to
you. Could you give me an
idea of what you’d be prepared
to pay me for my car, that is, if
you are interested in it at all.
It’s a ’thirty-five Vamp.”
“Oh, I’m interested all right,”
Aspinall said with no perceptible
evaporation of the Rotary spirit.
“Buying and selling cars is. my
business. A car of your model
would be worth, say, three
hundred and twenty-five pounds
to three hundred and seventy-
five pounds according to its con-
dition.”
Exultation leapt in Stone’s
heart. Rotary for Ever! it
sang: Good old Espinall; Voca-
tional Service: living up to the
spirit of his address. He was so
pleased with himself that he
remained with Espinall when
they reached the porch though
he could see Rigman standing
there talking easily with a group
of members, but one eye well
aware of Stone’s company. So
elated was he that he took Espin-
all’s arm familiarly and led him
up to Rigman.
“Shake hands with my guest
of tonight,” he commanded in
the jocular, goodfellowship man-
ner, “even if you’re planning to
poison him tomorrow.”
And Espinall shook Rigman’s
hand with a brave show of
cordiality, while Rigman re-
sponded in a manner which did
him credit, considering the in-
tensity of his enmity. Two or
three men standing by greeted
the demonstration with Rotarian
cheers, patting both men on the
back. Soon the news had rippled
all over the hall: “Rigman and
Espinall have shaken hands.” It
caused such a sensation that the
president came and commended
Stone on his Service in promot-
ing harmony in the community.
DURING the dinner Slone
sat beside his guest, and all
the time he kept congratulating
himself. Little cheering thoughts
kept creeping up in his mind:
Thirty-five pounds better at
least; caused a sensation by
bringing Rigman along; must
tell the wife how I was congratu-
lated by the president.
Rigman was intensely in-
terested in all that passed. A
member gave a talk on Com-
munity Service, and when he’d
finished Rigman was so excited
about it that he volunteered to
give ten pounds to the Baby
Health Centre. He looked like
a man who had been over-
whelmed by the impact of the
Ideals of Service. He turned to
Stone and his face looked as if
he was going to dedicate his life
to a new ideal.
“Service," he said, mos ,
reverently. “What a wonderfu
idea Everybody , n the town
thinking of what services he can
do for everybody else. My eo*h
I wish I’d learnt about this
sooner. It would have made ■?
great difference to me.” a
And when the dinner broke
up he walked right across the
hall in the sight of everyone to
where Espinall was putting 0 n
his overcoat, shook him warmlv
by the hand and exchanged a
few sentences with him, which
all present could see were in the
spirit of utter friendliness.
M EXT morning early Stone
N ran his car down to Espin
all’s. Espinall seemed to be
tremendously involved with his
staff, and it was some time be
fore he could see Stone. Then
when he came he had a pre-
occupied frown on his forehead
Stone had to remind him of bk
offer of, £325 to £375 of last
night before he seemed to re-
member anything about it.
“Oh, yes, according to condi-
tion,” he said, putting an un-
pleasantly heavy emphasis on
the word, “according to condi-
tion. I assumed that your car
was in good order,” And he
looked at Stone with hard
searching eyes.
Oh, yes, it is, ’ said Stone
“you can have a look at it. It’s
out in front.”
Espinall came walking out
with his preoccupied frown, but
when he saw the car his expres-
sion changed to astonishment.
“Good condition!” he said, in
a tone which suggested that
Stone had forfeited all right to
be a member of Rotary; and all
he was looking at with his accus-
ing eyes was what Stone regarded
as merely a few scratches on the
duco. “I’d have to have all the
paint scraped off and the car re-
ducoed before I could dare offer
it to anyone and,” and here his
voice took on a very ominous
tone, “you know what that would
cost these days, thirty-five to
forty pounds. I’d have to take
that off my price.”
Then he looked inside the car,
and what he saw there made him
turn back to Stone and give a
dismayed groan.
“What have you been doing
to the upholstery?” he asked, as
if he suspected Stone of having
been transporting pigs and
calves.
“Why, nothing,” Stone said,
quite bewildered at the way
things were going. And when
he looked in, all he saw was the
familiar shabbiness which he
imagined could be rectified with
a coat of polish, and a small rip
here and there.
“Need to have all the seats re-
I could offer it,”
Espinall went on grimly. “An-
other thirty pounds off the
price.”
He turned to Stone as if he
was going to offer him some
(Continued on page 32.)


ru'V^
fd
WORK BETTER
f
d
fd
worn's
\\
s
\
CIS
TRADE MARK
FACTORIES: FELTHAM, ENG.;
JOLEDO, U.S.A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO VERA DOLPHIN CARROLL formerly
of Young.—TAKE NOTICE that JOHN
PATRICK CARROLL has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3918 of 1948 on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 19th day of September 1950 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from TRESS, COCKS & MADDOX,
Solicitors, Mercantile Mutual Building,
117 Pitt Street. Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar. '
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO VERA ALICE BRIDGMAN late of
Newport. —TAKE NOTICE that JOHN
ERIC BRIDGMAN has filed a petition in
divorce No. 850 of 1950 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for 3 years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 19th day of
September 1950 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MESSRS.
BRAYB ORAGG COHEN & CHAPMAN,
Solicitors, Bolton Street, Newcastle, or
their Agents, MESSRS. BRAYE & MAL-
COMSON, Solicitors, 92 Pitt Street,
Sydney.— J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
f
ft
Australia’s Own
Joy Nichols
now starring, in London s stage,
radio and television says:
’’Small's Club Chocolate 1
9
is my favourite-as snappy
as a Danny Kaye gag ”
“Fm lucky enough to get Small’s
Chocolate sent me from Australia. Each
block of Small’s Club Chocolate braaks
with such a clear SNAP that shows
it’s good chocolate. Then there's that
wonderful not-so-sweet flavour ■— mm!
Small’s is the best chocolate I’ve ever
tasted.”
Any chocolate expert will tell you
that the louder the snap, the better the
chocolate. Small’s Club Chocolate breaks
with the loudest, cleanest snap of all.
df
Small's
make #reat Chocolate
The louder the snap the better the chocolate!
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Corroboree."
The National Theatre Ballet
Company highlighted its Sydney
visit with the first airing any-
where of John AntilTs “Cor-
roboree” ballet. It tackled the
project in the grand manner, and
did it proud to the accompani-
ment of the wild enthusiasm
with which Sydney audiences
always greet anything in the
nature of a “world premiere.”
Antill himself conducted his
music with a team built up for
the occasion with a liberal bor-
rowing from the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra of performers
experienced in the beating of
drums and the blowing of the
civilised equivalents of the did-
geridoo. William Constable
designed the setting—a desert
sky, domed and brassy and
powerfully effective, and a great
rock rising out of the centre of
the stage. Its strength is in its
simplicity, which quality the
ballet itself might have imitated
with advantage, and it shows a
directness of purpose in the mind
of the artist, which the ballet
lacks.
The Ballet Company has a
nucleus of dancers who remained
in Melbourne after the Ballet
Rambert had completed its Aus-
tralian tour, and one of these,
Rex Reid, arranged the interpre-
tation of Antill’s suite.
He has made of it a highly-
spectacular piece of stage
extravaganza, with a witches’
crew of tribal elders and an all-
presiding medicine-man who
conjures up the totem people—
Witchetty-grub Men, Emu Men,
Frog Men, Snake Men, Kan-
garoo Men, Lace Lizards,
Cockatoos and Wild Cats—and
puts them through their paces
like a somewhat demoniacal
Prospero. The totem people
march and counter-march,. gy-
rate and leap and stomp in well-
drilled frenzy.
There are rain dances and
wind dances and a hunting of
the kangaroo—for 45 minutes a
non-stop succession of varied
acrobatic cavortings. It is all
very exciting—the sort of thing
once s<?en never forgotten. But
it is also the sort of thing, like
Niagara Falls or a military
tattoo, that doesn’t need to be
seen often.
It is greatly successful as a
spectacle, but it is only very
problematically ballet. It may
not be even remotely reminiscent
to the aborigine of his own
rather dull, dirty and colorless
corroborec, but it still is not far
enough removed from that to
have become art. It is a
glamorised picture of a cor-
roborce. It has been given none
of the form that is necessary to
transform the primitive spec-
tacle into a civilised artistic
creation. The dances lack
pattern. That, too, it seems, is
a failing of the music—it lacks
the guiding intention of form.
The spirit of Samuel Goldwyn
hovers over the production. His
technicolor imagination inspires
the grand parade of the totem
folk and the massing of their
colorful banners. The good-as-
life masks of the Frog Men and
the Cockatoos might come from
a Sam Goldwyn property de-
partment. The Goldwyn influ-
ence cannot be blamed for other
less integral irritations, though
they would probably accord
with his code for complete
success. The extreme shape-
liness of these black tight-clad
tribesmen is a recurfent distrac-
tion attributable to the insuper-
able difficulty in Australia, and
perhaps anywhere, of finding a
sufficiency of male dancers to
fill the cast.
Goldwyn would not admit
that as a fault, and Goldwyn
might well be interested in this
corroborec. More sophisticated
audiences than Sydney’s would
almost surely find their first
sight of it an excitement.
A.i.C. Vocal and
Concerto Finals.
The remarkably high standard
revealed and encouraged by
this A.B.C. talent-finding com-
petition was clearly evident in
this year’s finals at Sydney
Town Hall. The competition has
been altered to segregate the
voice from the instrument —a
sensible move—and the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra under
Eugene Goossens provided the
accompaniments to the four
singers and collaboration in the
piano concerti. The adjudicator
was Charles Groves, the visiting
English conductor.
In the vocal section the winner
was obvious almost before she
had sung a dozen bars. She is
Elise Longwill, a Westralian
soprano with a pure, clear voice
of facile production,. and who
was always tonally dead-centre
in her moving interpretation of
Desdemona’s tragic Willow Song
from Verdi’s “Otello.” It was a
beautifully-judged effort, both as
to voice and to the projected
emotion.
Miss Longwill’s work shaded
that of N. S. Wales baritone
Trevor Lewis, who, as in the
State finals, pinned- his faith to
“Vision Fugitive” from Masse-
net’s “Herodiade.” He has a
good manly delivery and re-
spectable resonance.
The Victorian mezzo-soprano
Muriel Luyk, as easy to look at
as to listen to, has a range that
must compass almost three
octaves —in the opening section
of her aria from Meyerbeer’s “Le
Prophete” it seemed almost that
she had beeil billed wrongly, so
contralto-like was her lower
register. She also gave a good
account of herself. The fourth
singer, the South Australian
Kevin Miller, sang an excerpt
from Giordano’s “A ndrea
Chenier” with good judgment,
but his voice lacked the carrying-
power to rise above the orch-
estra.
Of the four pianists, Ronald
Price, from Victoria, gained top
honors with a capital perform-
ance of the Rhapsody on a
Theme of Paganini, by Rach-
maninoff.' In lusty and confident
playing he swept through the
bristling difficulties in a style
surprisingly mature for one just
on the threshold.
Of the other three pianists
Enid Strong ran to within a
hair’s-breadth of the winner
with a skilled and vigorous per-
formance of the first movement
from the Brahms Concerto No.
1. Westralian Molly McGurk
had some bright phases in
Liszt’s showy “Todtentanz”;
but only a miracle of playing
could have won the laurels for
any contestant who selected
Bela Bartok’s Third Concerto,
as did Victorian Leslie Miers.
The work is too craggy.
Artbursts.
Moya Dyring, whose bright,
shallow, slapdash impressions of
boats, bridges, buildings and
streets in Paris, are at David
Jones’s Gallery, Sydney, is a
Melbourne artist who has lived
abroad for some years. Two
paintings—-th6'green and yellow
foliage of “Thomery” caught up
in a mass of sunlight and lit with
red roofs, and the soldierly ranks
of trees standing to attention
over the colorful river of
“Nogent-sur-Marne”—show that
a hasty technique can sometimes
get a lively effect, even in oils.
The rest of the paintings show
how seldom that method is suc-
cessful.
* * * «
“F.S.”: Sidney Nolan’s Cen-
tralian landscapes—presumably
the same pictures that were re-
cently shown at David Jones’s
Gallery in Sydney—are now at
Stanley Coe’s Gallery, Mel-
bourne. Most Melbourne critics,
like those in Sydney, are salut-
ing him as a genius. He is credited
with having done something no-
body has ever done before ; so
the critic, desperately trying to
preserve his objectivity amidst all
this blather, is compelled to ask
“What’s never been done be-
fore?” The subject-matter? But
what about Heysen, Murch and
Namatjira? The use of Ripolin
and duco instead of the conven-
tional pigments? But what
about George Finey? Looking
at Mr. Nolan’s pictures with
their meretricious glitter, the
lack of relationship, the over-
emphasis of detail which recalls
the work of a commercial-
poster artist, the commonplace-
ness of the observation—in
short, the aesthetic quality—one
is forced regretfully to the con-
clusion that that’s been done a
million times before.
* * * *
Mary McLeish’s oils at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum aren’t slap-
dash, though they may seem so.
She uses a drawing technique,
but it has a basis of observation.
To push her expression further
than she has done in “Me,” a
lively study of herself in work-
ing dress at her easel, or in
“Young John,” a study of a
sad-eyed little newsboy, she
would have to refresh herself
with practice, but as it is she
has done it better than dozens
of other artists. “Blue and
White China” is a simple state-
ment of the subject, and “Len-
nox Street” has atmosphere
about it. “Mother’s Day”
catches the spirit of the family
breakfast table very nicely.
Another Mac Mary Mac-
queen at George’s—uses the
same method in watercolors, but
her drawing isn’t based on ob-
servation—if anything, it is
based on drawing. Consequently
the accent of nature is conspicu-
ous by its absence.
Patrick Hamilton’s “Rope,” a
psychological study of murder
that recalls the Leopold-Loeb
crime in Chicago in 1924, was
presented by the Sydney Players’
Club at the Macquarie Audi-
torium .last week. Two univer-
sity undergraduates strangle an
athletic fellow-student for the
“fun, danger and adventure of
it” and conceal the body in an
antique chest. They invite to
supper—liquor and savories are
served on the chest —the victim’s
father and aunt, a gushing
flapper, a nondescript youth and
a cynical poet wounded in
World War I. Talk revolves
around the sixth commandment
and tension mounts as the poet
begins to suspect that there is
something sinister about the
whole affair, and one of the
murderers becomes increasingly
hysterical. The end satisfies the
demands of justice. Don Cooke
and Jon Richards made a good
pair of killers —one suave and
poised, the other a terrified
weakling. Douglas Murray was
the poet, calm, curious and full
of terrible anger when he reveals
the crime. Richard Gooding was
the pathetic father and June
Cains introduced a note of light-
ness.
"King Lear."
Shakspeare’s great tragedy
hasn’t often been performed in
Melbourne. The last time the
present writer saw it was in the
stirring days of Alan Wilkie, a
wild, lusty but tabloid version.
It is said to have been played
only twice in the last 20 years in
England. So it was rather re-
markable to find a 20-days’ run
accorded the masterpiece at the
Melbourne Repertory’s Middle
Park theatre by the Australian
Repertory Players, and the five
acts and 22 scenes presented in
their, entirety by producer Eric
Maxon, one-time of Stratford-
on-Avon.
It was a strange experience—
like looking at an El .Greco
picture. ITie Spanish master’s
telegraph-pole-like figures, his
soaring lines, his tormented
saints and martyrs don’t corres-
pond with anything in Nature,
and every picture looks like an
explosion; but you see hands
and faces or a bit of paper
painted as only a Rembrandt or
a Titian, who didn’t distort at
all, could have painted them, and
the light that suffuses them is
the light of this earth. In other
words, the form is monstrous,
but what is put into the form
isn’t monstrous: it is determined
by the artist’s observation.
Shakspeare’s form is mon-
strous, and in terms of modern
stage conventions his conventions
are supremely silly. Bland
Holt never presented a bloodier
melodrama. What differentiates
Shakspeare’s play from others
is not the form but the quality
of his observation. Nothing in
Nature ever corresponded with
Lear, Edgar, Kent or Gloucester,
and nobody ever spouted
so much magnificent poetry
o Continued on page 35.)


WHERE
CscalaUtA
MOVE MERCHANDISE MOVES
° VR or C,v
°Hs r * p ° s T.n Am >
4T ■•*£?***H2r
•’ p e«T»
SALES Climb WHEN CUSTOMERS RIDE
ON Otis ESCALATORS
This Otis escalator installation at Boans Ltd.,
Perth, W.A., extends a pleasant invitation to
customers to see other floors ... to see more
merchandise ... to buy more.
Escalators promote inter-floor circulation,
provide ground-floor accessibility to lower-
ground or upper floors.
Put motion into your sales promotion plans
with Otis escalators—your local Otis office
will be glad to survey your store and give
you the facts.
d
fd
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM •
UNITED
New Installations
of Post-war Design
OTIS ESCALATORS
ADELAIDE! Myer Emporium
(S.A.) Ltd 4
BRISBANE: McWhirters Ltd 6
MELBOURNE: Myer Emporium Ltd. ... 12
n Manton & Sons Ltd 4
SYDNEYi Anthony Hordern &
Sons Ltd 10
„ David Jones Ltd 6
M Mark Foy's Ltd. 6
PERTH: Boons Ltd 6
STATES • SOUTH AFRICA • FRANCE
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
osuuurvA*
iA ,
V V
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
#
ture
£3
f
m
d
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands. lf .
Call or send stamp J or free
measurement form and li V
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO-
(Dept, 87), » Martin w
THE SERVICE MAN
WAR IN KOREA.
“Ek Dum”: The Korean war,
on general appearances, has not
gone very well either politically
or militarily during its first few
days. The United States authori-
ties in the Far East were taken
by surprise originally.
The Communist technique of
infiltration was used. The results
have been dire —anti-tank guns
without firing-pins; numerous
retreats of South Koreans with-
out authoritative orders.
The South Koreans are with-
out anti-tank guns, without air-
craft of their own and, in the
main, without military training,
except as a sort of defensive con-
stabulary. Any sensible man in
touch with the situation over the
past two years has known that
the present difficulties were
almost certain to arise at some
not remote time. But U.N.O.’s
principle is that gabble can
always outweigh force, a theory
which it is fortunate that it has
not often been called on to test.
The present happenings prove
how futile the whole expensive
outfit is.
Forty nations have firmly paid
lip-service to the defence of
South Korea, but so far only the
United States, the British Com-
monwealth and the Dutch —
whose hold on-Indonesia, one of
our greatest safeguards, the
Chifley Government was en-
thusiastic in breaking at the
behest of its Communist union
supporters—are giving any help.
The Dutch have sent a
destroyer.
Mr. Nehru, whom Mr.
Chifley regards as the greatest
man in Asia, quoting him as his
only authority on Asian politics,
supports the Security Council but
says he is unable to give help,
though he is working for the ad-
mission of Communist China to
the Council, he having estab-
lished a strange brotherhood
with* Moscow’s emissaries in
Peking.
The rest of the eager enemies
of aggression seem either to
have enough Communist
problems on their hands to
occupy themselves at home or
feel that it will be sufficient time
to act when they are asked. The
cry has gone up that the war
shall be conducted under
U.N.O. command and the
U.N.O. flag, but until there is
more evidence of active
enthusiasm for the cause this is
scarcely practical politics.
A Skilled Drive
The fighting—what there has
been of it over the past week —
be described as one long
strategic retreat. The Com-
munists have driven in force
down all the main roads,
and particularly along the main
railway-line. The advance has
been conducted in a skilled way,
and after established Russian
methods, of which a principal
characteristic is the peculiar use
of low-flying cover aircraft.
Their tank tactics were those
established by the Germans in
1940 in France and the Low
Countries and improved during
the war. Their tanks push ahead
with all speed, and endeavor to
carve up and cut off opposing
units or formations. They are
covered and heralded by
Stormovik strafers when weather
will allow and served ahead by
Yaks for recce and disorganisa-
tion of aerodromes.
Their first stage in the advance
was the capture of Seoul, taken
with little resistance. Their
second was the crossing of the
Han River, which runs through
its environs. At that stage it
was obvious that their drive was
making use of all communica-
tions right across the peninsula.
Their forces were not merely a
single spearhead striking at poli-
tical objectives at the west, but
a series of columns aiming at all
road junctions, methodically
securing ports as they marched,
and providing new landing-
places through which to feed in
men and munitions by sea, thus
taking as much weight as pos-
sible off their land lines of com-
munication and shortening
them. With the wet weather this
is advisable. Korean roads are
not bad by Oriental standards
in dry seasons, though they
would be adjudged in the worst
class in Eastern Australia. Even
in the wet they are obviously
fit for tank transport, since the
armored advances have been
swift.
There are three chief routes
southward once the Han River
is reached at Seoul from the
north. These are linked to an
east-west road, of medium
quality indeed, from Jinsen
(Chemulpo) to Kanjo on the east
coast. This runs for much of
the way up the Han River
valley, mainly on the northern
side and past Shensen.
On the east, from Kenjo, the
Genzan-Fusan road hugs the
coast, and the eastern coastal
railway which comes down from
the Manchurian railway. At
intervals of about 50 miles there
are roads running off this to the
west. In the middle of the
peninsula at Shunsen another
road runs southward through
Chungju near the 37th parallel,
where it meets the main Seoui-
Fusan highway through Taikyu
to Fusan. Still another main
road leaves the Seoul-Chemulpo
road half-way, and, roughly
speaking, follows the west-side
railway through Taiden on the
Kum (Kin) River to Taikyu.
All the main roads lead ulti-
mately to Fusan, which is the
main port of entry and only
120 miles by air from Japan.
The main drive has its axis
athwart the two western roads
from Seoul. The eastern coastal
road and rail and the central
road through Chungju carry the
flanking forces which help in
envelopment and take what ad-
vantage they can of the pre-
occupation of the Americans
and South Koreans with opera-
tions on the main west-side
routes.
Poor “Aggressors”!
The advances on all lines
were steady. South Korea is
embraced entirely north-south
between the 35-38th parallels of
latitude, except for a small south-
western tip, which is of not
much strategic account and
which sneaks below 35. By July
10 the North Koreans were
masters of all the country north
of 37 and were half-way on the
west to 36.
The nature of the fighting on
the parts of the front in which
the South Koreans operated
would have had the hearty
approval of the Grand Old
Duke of York and of all famous
Chinese generals. With flags
tied to their rifles these noble
fellows marched forward to
battle at various strategic points,
flowers in their hats and war-
cries on their lips. Time and
again they got into position. A
few bullets whizzed past or tanks
were reported.
Always the S. Koreans failed
to live up to the role plotted
for them by Moscow —
that of savage aggressors
who went romping over the
North Korean border bent on a
barbarous attack on the peaceful
North Koreans, and who were
pushed back only by the valor
and Communist patriotism of
the superlative soldiery of the
north.
Actually a very great propor-
tion of them are simple farmers,
illiterate and unpugnacious
in the extreme, mingled with
civil-service clerks, and mild
beside the rude industrial
workers and hillmen of the
Communist armies, the rural
levies of which are drained from
rough mountain tracts where, it
is* popularly said, the tigers eat
all the crops in summer and the
farmers eat all the tigers in
winter to keep themselves going.
The U.S. Plan
The American task is hot an
enviable one. General Mac-
Arthur’s forces in Japan were
not. on a war footing. They are
very different in content from
the original hard-bitten occupa-
tion legions of 1945. Many of
them are young draft-men.
Transport arrangements have
not been provided in Japan for
a continental war, and, even if
they had been, time is an im-
portant element.
Many of them must be main-
tained in their present positions,
and their supply arrangements
have to be considered, as to
land, sea and air. To get the
others moving through restricted
and undeveloped communication
lines to a front nearly 1000
miles away by air from Tokyo
was something which would
take more than days to do effec-
tively, more especially as any
attempt to establish a complete
defence line across a narrow
peninsula, ill-served with aem
dromes roads and
and intersected with rive C r ,>
presents problems of more 4k ’
ordinary difficulty, the 7e ral"
and the wet weather being wh at
they are. More than norma
care m consolidation and me
tection of communication-lin«
is necessary, seeing especial!,,
that there are ports oTS
side in which the enemy might
land forces, and that the in
vaders have no inconvenient in'
hibitions about the laws of war'
TJey have turned up on all sort ’
of roads, usually in fours and
arrayed in every type of uniform
purloined
GI. outfits to South Korean
kits, so that, as one bewildered
American announced, “y ou
never know who to shoot.”
Improvised Defence
An attempt to establish an
immediate front defensive fine
which would hold was fore-
dloomed to failure. All that
could be done was to impro-
vise a defence across the main
approaches to the south while
cover was built for the por t
of Fusan, the 'one vital snot
at present to the Ameri-
cans. It was necessary t 0 send
H.Q. forward and take all
the risks incident to a situation
where the fighting points are
130 miles or more out on a thin
limb and where weather and
mired roads make linkage pre-
carious. It was also necessary
that a minimum of troops should
be committed in this early stage
in view of the tremendous enemy
superiority and complete organi-
sation.
Under such circumstances it
was inevitable that there would
be a certain amount of muddle
and mistake, but that what was
done, even if it resulted in the
loss of all the American units
involved, would gain time,
destroy a considerable quantity
of enemy material, probe the
enemy strength and generally


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS;
E. K. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, R. J, VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
DESIGN No. 6
New Beautiful Designs
FOR PROMPT DELIVERY
For your new Home, choose one of the new
Terra-Cotta Surrounds. They are available to
suit open fireplaces, gas fires or Wonderheat
and Kosi stoves, in a delightful mottled cream-
buff ceramic glaze that is everlasting and. will
not stain or discolour, and is easy to clean.
Ask your, local Hardware Merchant, 'Phone
MX 2411 or write Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney for
illustrated Booklet of designs.
_
MREPLACE SURROUNDS
1 "OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
When the
Occasion calls
for the best!
Km
Vs
7
'
SisBSSSBI^'O?
>sf
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
ESTABLISHED tgSB
&
SPECIAL hospit
>lft. ST PETIRS- AOet*l#»
plltv. SCOTT « TOltl* 1
r °Uey. s
tp *Ut
fd
f
df
f
N.S.W. Distributors
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
TST.l3.ia
C0a1...
MILLIONS OF YEARS TO
Burned
in a Second
. . . How import-
ant it is, therefore,
to burn coal
properly and eco-
nomically, how-
ever great or small
the daily con-
sumption. Wi t h
world - wide ex-
perience, and a
knowledge of
Australian coals
that extends back
over 60 years,
Babcock specialise
in the design and
manufacture of
the most efficient
steam - raising
plant for all pur-
poses.
Longitudinal section
of a B. 4 W, High
Head boiler unit
arranged for - pul-
verised coal firing.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS - - REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all Stales
If any illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
feel him out, discover his
methods and objectives and slow
him up.
first Real Clashes
On the western-road system
late during the week after the
first real clashes on July 4 arid 5
(or thereabouts) the North
Koreans punched through the
U.S. lines with 100 tanks, mostly
light, armed with 76mm. guns,
hut with a smattering of 35-
tonners. Some units seem to
have been surrounded and some
driven into retirement, when the
Koreans came “swarming across
the river like rats.” The Ameri-
cans holding the main road were
overwhelmed. One group of
artillery was cut off by tanks at
Osan airstrip, 10 miles from the
first U.S. forward H.Q. at Suwon
and was forced to give in after
eight hours’ fighting.
The remains retreated across
the paddyfields under heavy fire
from enemy infantry, which was
tank-covered in a proper manner.
They left behind their wounded,
five 105 mm. guns, some a.t, guns
and quantities of small arms,
and they lost over 30 per cent,
of their forces as casualties or
prisoners.
There was a general 25-mile
withdrawal which was reported
to be due to the mistake of an
American battalion commander
who misunderstood his instruc-
tions. But the fact remains that
eventual withdrawal was fated
in any case if the. American
estimate is valid that there are
now 15 Korean divisions in
South Korea, each comprising
5000 to 6000 men on the Chinese
model, together with over 100
tanks, many of them heavies
and very efficient heavy mobile
guns of 150 mm. class,
“According to Plan”
The only real facts which can
be taken as fully accurate in the
confused stories and communi-
ques—some of these necessarily
framed to deceive the enemy —
are that the Americans are with-
drawing and must continue to
withdraw until they reach a line
which they can hold and for
which adequate supplies are
available. While as Major-
General Dean, the U.S. Com-
mander, says, “No situation is
good unless you are going for-
ward,” his other assertion that
withdrawals now going on are
“planned moves” and not re-
treats and are “designed to im-
prove the American position” is
true also. The nearer the line is
to the main supply-base at
Fusan the better chance the U.S.
forces have of fighting.
There is no room for despon-
dency as yet. Unless Chinese
and Russian troops are thrown
into the war in force it is only
a question of time before the
advantage changes over to the
defenders, though it would be a
tragedy if they lose Fusan.
The Americans have had no
tanks in action up to July 8.
Their aircraft outfitting has
depended rather on what is avail-
able than-on what is advisable
and needed. Their bases are
not established, their communi-
cations are sketchy and their
bombing and fighter cover, in
the absence of complete recon-
naissance, adequate supplies of
material and advantageous
weather, not all that could be
desired.
Furthermore, until July 4,
when the naval blockade was
declared, even the leaks at the
sides of the battle-compartment
had not been closed.
By July 10 the North Korean
effort was aimed primarily at
cutting off the railway junction
of Chonan, about 25 miles north
of the Kum River and thus iso-
lating U.S. and S. Korean forces
in the north sector and secon-
darily breaking through the
Kurr> River line into the Ameri-
can forward base area.
The fighting in this area seems
to have had something of des-
peration about it, though allow-
ance must be made for the
enthusiasm of correspondents.
One set of S. Koreans was re-
ported to have suddenly belied
earlier accounts of their fighting
standards and wiped out two
battalions of attackers to the
last 21 men. American aircraft
allegedly wiped out another bat-
talion and six tanks in one strafe
and light-bomber attack.
However, the fact seemed to
be that the advance was still go-
ing on and was bound to go on
until the American tanks on their
way to the front arrived and
until there were sufficient sup-
plies of automatic and small
arms and ammunition, plus
equality in aircraft available to
the defenders. Time still was
the essence of the contract and
the immediate issue remained
which would get to Fusan, the
U.S. beachhead, first —adequate
U.S. troops and supplies or
superabundant N. Koreans, who
have forces in the field far be-
yond the capacity of their own
territory or population.
The R.A.A.F. 77th Squadron
has been in action throughout
the week and reported its first
casualty on July 10 when
Squadron-leader Graham Strout,
of Fullarton (S.A.), was posted
missing. The previous day he
failed to return from a sortie in
a flight of four made through
heavy anti-aircraft fire.
British Naval units were also
reported to have had a few
casualties on a cruiser.
The U.S. troops available in
the “Far East” under General
MacArthur’s command totalled,
on July 1, 123,500, made up of
the First Cavalry—which virtu-
ally is infantry—the Seventh,
24th and 25th Divisions. These
are outside 8000 men in the
Philippines. It was reported that
the Second and Third Divisions
in the U.S. had, in the first week
in July, been alerted for active
service.
Other Areas in Danger
All operations were slowed up
by the necessity for cover of
other defensive positions not
in Korea but over vast areas of
sea and land which might at
any moment become subject to
an attack as surprising and sud-
den as that on South Korea.
In the end, as in all wars, com-
munications will tell the story
of the Korean campaign. And
once these have been tackled
properly by the Americans, the
matter should be well on the
way to being settled, provided
outside requirements do not
denude the front.
The Fifty-fifty Chance
Pandit Nehru last week spoke
of a 50-50 chance of world war.
A Communist Chinese ultima-
tum to U.N.O. on Formosa and
the Russian Note on the
blockade were other develop-
ments.
The Chinese Note, when linked
with the Russian one, which not
merely made clear its attitude
on Korea but which gave plain
international Warning of what
must inevitably happen in other
areas of action, declared that the
United States had committed
“open aggression in invading
Chinese territorial waters round
Formosa” —in which, inci-
dentally, Chinese Communist
forces have never set foot or
keel. It declared that Formosa
(wrested by the Americans and
British from the Japanese, who
had ruled it for more than half
a century) was an “inseparable
part of Chinese territory.” It
said that “despite any military
steps or obstruction taken by the
United States Government the
Chinese people”— i.e., Messrs.
Mao and Stalin —“are irre-
vocably determined to liberate
Formosa.” It repeated the
Russian attack on U.N.O. inter-
vention and Security Council
proceedings parrot-fashion.
It seems that U.N.O. nations
must soon inevitably be involved
in war with Communist China,
which means in reality large-
scale war with the U.S.S.R.,
which must be dragged in to'’
save its satellite.
And not the least alarming
point in the situation is the atti-
tude of Nehru, who is not
merely favoring, but is canvas-
sing for, the admission of Com-
munist China to U.N.O. and
giving direct support to the
Russian claim that Security
Council decisions are illegal
unless “the People’s Govern-
ment” of China is present at the
making of them.


i MOO MO J **
d
fdf
BCPA
N
ONLY 3J DAYS*
via AMERICA
INO DOLLARS NEEDED!
Leave Sydney with BCPA on Satur-
dayt at II a.m., arrive London
for breakfast on Tuesday! No
problems for through pas-
sengers—BCPA's fare includes a
special dollar allowance for meals
and accommodation. Travelling by
BCPA ,you see Honolulu and the
fabulous cities of North America,
and over the "Southern Cross'*
route you enjoy the luxurious com-
fort of the sleeper-equipped DC-6.
For no additional fare, you may
break your journey at any point
along the route.
* Actual elapsed time only 77 Ars.
45 mins.
d
TO UNITED KINGDOM
SINGLE £325
RETURN £585
t Departures every Wednesday and
Saturday. Full particulars from your
local travel agent, or any airline
booking office. General Sales Agents:
Trans-Australia Airlines. BCPA Head
Office: 53 Martin Place, Sydney.
BW 2741.
on
8CA.41.t8
Born 1820 —
t fill going %frong.
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
f
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
A CHURCHILL DECISION.
A very vivid highlight of
recent history is recalled by the
“Manchester Guardian” i n
editorial comment on what could
be a new concept of how the
R.A.F. should be used at a
pinch—a concept which accords
with the integrating of Atlantic-
Pact defence forces adopted by
the recent London conferences,
but which differs completely
from that of Mr. Churchill, when
he decided to hold enough of that
splendid force to win the Battle
of Britain.
The different concept was
favored from the Labor side in
a House of Commons debate,
and has also been backed up by
the Socialist-Government sup-
porter London “Tribune.” In
the only kind of war that can be
expected, Britain’s Air Force, the
“Tribune” states, “would presum-
ably be at the disposal of the
Continent as a whole. The last-
war concept of the R.A.F. as a
metropolitan air force that can-
not be left abroad when Britain
is directly threatened has dis-
appeared. In addition Britain
retains her traditional role as sea
policeman, in conjunction with
the United States.”
In the Commons debate Mr.
Crossman insisted that Britain is
rfbw part of the Continent in
matters of defence, and that this
demanded a great shift of opinion
in the House: “No more talk
of the Battle of Britain. Never
again, in that case, can we re-
fuse the metropolitan air force
to the French. If we are part of
the Continent then our aero-
planes go where the Continent
requires them.”
“One of the turning-points in
history,” the “Manchester
Guardian” recalls, “occurred in
May and June, 1940. It arose
from this very question. Time
after time, in despair, France
implored us to send her more
and yet more squadrons of the
Royal Air Force. Mr. Churchill
tells of it all in some of the most
moving pages in his histories.
Early in June General Weygand
made exactly the plea now in
dispute. He asked that every
British fighter squadron should
be thrown into the battle.
‘Here,’ he said, ‘is the decisive
point. Now is the decisive
moment. It is therefore wrong
to keep any squadrons back in
England.’
“Mr. Churchill tells how he
answered him; ‘This is not the
decisive point,’ he’said, ‘and this
is not the decisive moment. The
time will come when Hitler hurls
his Luftwaffe against Great
Britain. If we can keep com-
mand of the air and if we can
keep the seas open, as we cer-
tainly shall keep them open, we
will win it all back for you.’
“ ‘Twenty-five fighter squad-
rons,’ Mr, Churchill writes, ‘must
be maintained at all costs for
the defence of Britain and the
Channel, and nothing would
make us give up these. We in-
tended to continue the war what-
ever happened but to give up
these squadrons would destroy
our chance of life.’
“It was a terrible decision,”
the editorial comments. “Right
to the bitter end the French went
on pleading—even as late as
June 16, when the Battle of
France was over. That day M.
Monnet and the French Under-
secretary for National Defence
visited Downing-street for a last
attempt. It failed; and as they
left, the Under-secretary (who
was General de Gaulle) turned
back and said to Mr. Churchill,
in English, T think you are quite
right.’ The Battle of Britain
followed; by a miracle and those
25 squadrons it was won.”
U.N.O. Trippers.
Lately looking around South-
east Asia, London “Daily Mail”
correspondent G. Ward Price
noted a current migratory infes-
tation, “not of locusts, but of
international investigators”—to
be precise, U.N.O. reps.
Mentioning one group as
being composed of members of
those alphabetical wonders
E.C.A.F.E.,F.A.0.,U.N.E.5.C.0.
and W.H.0., Price reports:
“You will find similar groups
of anonymous U.N. functionaries
in almost every city of the Far
East. They travel on diplomatic
passports, exempt from Customs
and Consular control. The air-
transport companies reap a rich
profit in flying them from place
to place.
“This new privileged class of
cosmopolitan bureaucrats is
everywhere rated as of the V.I.P.
category. They pass ahead of
ordinary fare-paying passengers,
get into gleaming motor-cars in-
stead of the airline omnibus and
are whirled off to the best hotel
accommodation the city can pro-
vide.
“Their reservations take pre-
cedence of other guests, who
si )
pjucei
«mal
wmj
fd
CROUP
“CAN’T YOU UNDERSTAND...
FASCISM AND COMMUNISM...
—London "Daily Express."
ARE COMPLETELY DIFFERENT?”
may even be turned out of their
rooms to provide quarters for
them. They insist upon the best,
as all expenses are paid by the
United Nations budget. Such
amenities are shared not only by
the delegates themselves but by
the staff of translators, secre-
taries and typists who accom-
pany them.
“It is the good fortune of this
new international Civil Service
to be paid in American dollars;
to be exempt from all income-
tax ; and to benefit from sub-
stantial travel, housing and
married allowances. As world-
roving commissars they escape
the crushing financial burdens
that all modern States impose
upon their citizens.
“The purpose of their labor is
not action but inquiry. They
may recommend but do not have
to shoulder the responsibility of
executing. They themselves tend
to throw off sub-committees, en-
tailing the engagement of
supplementary personnel, which
often continue in existence to
the benefit of their well-paid
members, while the subject of
their activities slowly makes its
way, by one report stage after
another, to the central files of
U.N.0.”
Oil for War.
In one of a series of special
N. Y. “Herald Tribune” articles
on Soviet military potentials, the
writer declares that current stra-
tegic studies available to the
Canadian-American Joint De-
fence Board and other interested
agencies reveal that the Soviet
Union still is a relatively unde-
veloped nation in many import-
ant fields, even though it pos-
sesses the strongest air force
numerically in the world and a
growing fleet of Schnorkel sub-
marines, one of the possibly
vital shortages being oil:
“Germany discovered during
World War II that nobody can
fight a war without adequate
petroleum supplies—or continue
the struggle after these have
been destroyed by strategic
bombers of an enemy.
“The Soviet Union, accord-
ing to information believed to
be highly accurate, at present
is producing approximately
35,000,000 metric tons of crude
petroleum a year, and reached
this level only in recent
months. This amounts to some
700.000 barrels a day, including
15.000 to 20,000 barrels from
the desolate island of Sakhalin
in the Pacific.
“By way of comparison, the
current United States produc-
tion is more than 300,000,000
metric tons a year, or 6,000,000
barrels a day/ 5
“Peace” Propaganda.
London “Daily Telegraph,”
contending that “as an instru-
ment for the prosecution of the
cold war” the “peace offensive”
of Communists and their fel-
low-travellers is not to be under-
rated :
“There will always be some
innocents who can be deluded
into supposing that those who
yell for peace are necessarily
zealous in its cause, and that
whoever does not join in the
yelling is a self-convicted war-
monger.
“The purpose of the campaign
is to confuse simple minds in
the democratic countries and to
mask the fact that its own
authors are the lone threateners
of the world’s peace. Sir Vin-
cent Tewson, the secretary of
the T.U.C., used moderate
language when he denounced
this campaign as ‘the most cyni-
cal and fraudulent ever devised
by the Communist party.’
“The Devil quoting scripture
is no more palpable impostor
than these peacemongers.”
Schuman Scheme.
In general, British Press com
ment has supported wait-and-see
in regard to the Schuman plan
for the pooling of Western
European coal-and-steel produc-
tion, and especially in regard to
th e “surrender-of-sovereigntv”
aspect of it. Most comment
however, except in such insular
quarters as the “Daily Express ”
is accompanied by expressions
of regret that Britain has had
to stay out for the present.
Referring to Schuman’s re-
iterated insistence that the pl an
can’t succeed without “a partial
but definite surrender 0 f
sovereignty,” a London “Times”
letter-writer commented (froin
Paris);
“France is ready for this act
of renunciation because she has
learned through suffering in the
war to think afresh about
nationalism. French opinion re-
fuses to contemplate putting
Europe’s heavy industries into
the hands of one more inter-
governmental agency or commit-
tee. On such bodies each dele-
gate is tied by instructions from
his own Government, national-
ism is preserved, and strains
must occur greater than could
be borne by such historical
enemies as France and Ger-
many.
“Therefore, the French say
that the members of the steel
authority must have the duty and


d
fd
f
7 '
r \ L
I '*
. J
MU
v,.
I
§ Kg?'
Ml PHILIPS
li
g
.•**and the secret’s •
; s
• ia this revolutionary I
•.New Cutting Head/
*
The secret of Philishave's amaz-
ing "way with the whiskers" is
in the rotary-action cutting head.
It is designed to pick up every
hair, no matter what its length
or direction of growth—it shaves
smoothly, swiftly, clean and close
—gives you the most comfortable
shaves you've ever known.
£7/5/6 complete, with zippered
case.
• Have a free demonstration
Shave with Philishave to-morrow.
I LI
£
El E C T R I
SHAVE
« —famous as Philips Lamps
a product of
philips electrical industries
OF AUST. PTY. LTD.
PST-49
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 34/- per lb. or loose Priced
33/- per lb,
“PACIFIC” Pine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 33/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Pine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 30/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
Relieve
NASAL
SORENESS
age to colds
Don’t suffer—when your nose feels
dried out, or sore, apj>ly Cuticura
Ointment to aid quick relief.
Always keep a tin handy—good
for cuts, bruises and sores. One of
the famous U io—-Cuticura Oint-
ment, Soap and Talcum Powder. S3S
■[ticura
OINTMENT
d
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST INSURANCE BROKERS
OFFER A FREE ADVISORY SERVICE
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. BW 2131
__ And all other States ...
EU5.23.4
FONDE
fd
EN 1724
BMI4
RE MY MARTS IM
V.S.O.R. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
the power to act as Europeans,
a nd that this power alone will
- enable them to forget old
quarrels and to work for peace
and the common good.
“Such is the thinking which
now separates France from
Britain. Western Europe fully
understands Britain’s special
position due to our island
geography and great imperial
connection. We could ask for
any reasonable conditions to take
care of this special position, and
they would be welcomed. There
is no insuperable barrier here.
The more profound cause for
our reluctance to join the steel
talks is that, not having been
occupied or defeated, our ideas
about national sovereignty are
out of step with those of the
Continent. It is the stuff of
tragedy that our deeds in 1940
make us both responsible for the
leadership of a united Europe
and unwilling to accept that
responsibility.”
Against such rather common
generalising the able “Observer”
commentator who writes as “A
Student of Europe” has looked
into the plan and found a large-
size flaw. The inference in his
comment is that, in regard to
the “higher authority” which is
to run the scheme, there has
been some rather hasty rushing
in where a more sober J. Bull
would hesitate to go.
The proposed authority, he
points out, would have powers
not only equal to, but exceeding,
those of most existing national
Governments. “Indeed, perhaps
the most unorthodox and sensa-
tional feature of the Schuman
—Rochester (U.S.A.) “Times Union.”
“Who, ME?”
Plan is that it is not content to
transfer to a supranational
authority powers now exerted by
national Governments; it en-
visages the creation of new vast
powers, not at present enjoyed
by most Governments, in order
to vest them in a supranational
authority.
“This need not be, in itself, an
objection to the Schuman Plan.
But it is essential to realise that
the political powers of such a
supranational Coal and Steel
Board would be enormous ; they
are powers such as only the
strongest and most ambitious
Socialist Governments have so
far assumed even on a national
scale.”
Waking Americans.
America at this moment
(up to the Korea outbreak),
reports a Washington corre-
spondent of London “Spectator,”
is a country where the Secretary
of Defence, Mr. Johnson, can
say in a public speech: “We can
lick the Russians”; where the
Secretary of the Air Force, Mr.
Symington (now moved to a still
bigger Government job), can
warn the nation that the Russians
“are capable now of unleashing
without warning the world’s'
largest ground army, air force
and underseas fleet” ; where one
day a serving naval expert can
say: “Horrible as it may sound,
we must be prepared to lose ten
to fifteen million people in the
first day of the superblitz” ; and
where another day a retired
general of considerable reputa-
tion can observe that the United
States may expect a breathing-
spell of only two or three years
before Russia will be ready for
full-scale war:
“America is also a country
whose Department of State has
been issuing for some time the
texts of Notes to, and statements
about, the Soviet Union and the
Iron Curtain countries in which
appear adjectives and nouns as
bleak and tough as those flung
at the United States from the
areas east of Germany. In
America now newspapers, maga-
zines and radio-commentators
speculate, warn, reveal arid in-
terpret on a basis which requires
that a spade shall never be called
anything less than a spade.
‘Russia has a huge fleet of new
radar - defying, bomb - throwing
U-boats that could wreck our
coastal cities overnight,’ one
piece will say; and another;
‘Jet-fighters already in use
[could] escort bombers of the
829 type from existing
East,bases to the vital Baku oil-
fields of Soviet Russia on the
Caspian Sea.’
“The point here raised,” the
correspondent added, “is not
whether these speeches and state-
ments are a cause for alarm or
for satisfaction. I myself lived
in America when isolationism
was in full flower, and when
very nearly all officials, news-
papers, magazines and radio-
commentators were saying that
what happened in Europe was
none of America’s business ; and
I would very much rather see
this country wide awake than
fast asleep. The point is that
what is being said, and the tone
and tempo of it, exert a pro-
found effect on the current
American climate, A friend of
mine wiho is working for an
organisation dedicated to the task
of explaining the realities of
atomic warfare said with great
earnestness: ‘We know what we
have to do. We have to scare
the hell out of ’em.’ The
Americans are a nation of people
out of whom, at this moment,
the hell is being comprehensively
scared. Most of the people who
are doing the scaring are not
doing it out of hysteria.
“The proposition is that the
more prepared for war the
United States is the less likely
war will be. And if it is hard to
quarrel with this, proposition it
is equally hard to deny that its
practical application at this
moment is imposing a very con-
siderable strain on American
nerves.”
The Great Gulf.
Toronto “Star” delves info a
U.N.O. report which “provides
in cold facts a basic explana-
tion of what has divided and
continues to divide the peoples
of the world. It is the gulf of
poverty”:
“The U.N. estimate on the
world income in 1948 shows
that 75 p.c. of the world’s popu-
lation possessed less than a fifth
of the wealth produced that
year. According to the calcula-
tions of U.N. economists and
statisticians, the total wealth
produced in 1948 was valued at
531 billion dollars. Of this
amount 224 billion, or 40 p.c.,
was produced in the United
States, where live 7 p.c. of the
world’s population. In all of
Asia, Africa, South America and
Central America, with almost
1,500,000,000 people, or nearly
75 p.c. of the inhabitants of the
earth, incomes totalled only
slightly more than 90 billion
dollars, or 16£ p.c. of the world’s
total.
“The 1948 income in Europe,
including the Soviet Union,
totalled 192 billion dollars. The
Soviet Union alone, which occu-
pies one-sixth of the world’s
land surface and has about 10
p.c. of the world’s population,
earned 52 billions, just 10 p.c,
of the dollar value of all goods
and services in the world.
“These facts indicate the
sharp division in living standards
between the peoples in the East
and the West. North America
is today the most productive
region on earth, and its inhabi-
tants enjoy the highest standards
of living.
“The U.N. report suggests
that until productivity and
living standards begin to ad-
vance to Western levels in the
poor and backward areas there
can be little hope f6r reduction
of social tensions in and among
them, and between them and the
West.”
New West Doctrine.
A London “Observer” writer,
reviewing the results of the
recent important West confer-
ences in London, sees future
policy as being shaped on the
following conclusions:
“Agreement with Russia is
not now attainable except
through surrender. World unity
is not now attainable except
through war.
“This being so, we must com-
pletely reorientate our thinking
and redirect our efforts. To
achieve peace and security we
must now make our part of the
world so strong that it cannot
be attacked and so healthy that
it cannot be undermined. If we
succeed world unity may ulti-
mately come through the
dynamic of our success and the
impact of our example.”
Taking that to be the “new
doctrine” emerging from the
conferences, the writer com-
ments; —
“It is a revolutionary doc-
trine ; it runs counter to the
whole traditional and accepted
system of international relations
and power-politics, and for
those brought up in that system
it is difficult to grasp and diffi-
cult to work. But it is inescap-
able. It is also breath-taking
in its implications.”
Dragnet Digest.
Sharing Commonwealth Burdens. —
London “Economist” puts, in a few
direct words, a conclusion lately being
expressed by many in the Old Land:
“Now that the disproportion in size
and resources between the United
Kingdom and the younger Common-
wealth members is fast diminishing,
the burdens of defence should be
shared more equitably. Indeed, such
sharing is the condition of an effec-
tive British contribution to the
Atlantic Pact and to Middle Eastern
defence.”
* * * *
British Emigration. —Holding that
emigration should be regarded, not
as a loss to Britain, but as movement
within a family, London “Daily Tele-
graph” suggests that that should be
the basis for a needed integrated
over-all policy: “Numerically, the
distribution of the family is now
grotesquely uneven, with 65 per cent,
of the British white population con-
centrated in the United Kingdom,
against little more than 11 per cent, in
Australia and New Zealand together.
How far the balance should ultimately
be altered is a matter for agreed
policy. Until such policy is decided,
we cannot withhold encouragement
from the measures which Australia is
now taking to tilt the scales a little
more in her favor.”
♦ * * *
Stronger Greece. —As seen by
“Washington Post”: “The fact is that
not only has Greece been secured
from Communism, but the Greek
Army has been restored as a factor
in Balkan affairs. Tito knows that.
It helps to explain his new respect
for Greece.”
* % * *
Menzies Endorsed. Hailing as
“very welcome” the Menzies decision
to improve at least a little on the
sorry showing of the Chifleys by
lending some air aid in Malaya, Lon-
don “Economist” commented that the
gesture, following on the Australian
proposals for economic aid to South-
east Asia, showed that “Australians
are very much alive to the menace
to themselves of Communism in
South-east Asia. They may have
noticed how, at the conference in
Budapest [in May] of the World
Federation of Trade Unions, Com-
rade Berezin from Moscow was
already urging that the fight should
be carried to Australia by encourag-
ing dockers and seamen to refuse to
load arms for Malaya.”
* * * *
German Competition. —“ Manchester
Guardian’s” financial editor, reporting
that the cheapness of German goods
is worrying British manufacturers:
“Some German prices are lower than
British prices; in a few cases they
are lower than the bare cost of
making the same goods in Britain.”
He quotes S. P. Chambers, finance
director of Imperial Chemical Indus-
tries, as having pointed out that the
Government’s latest tax proposals will
reduce the burden of tax carried by
German industry, which is already
fairly low, while in Britain, new taxes
and rising wages are further increas-
ing costs of production. “German
workers do not, in fact, work much
longer than British workers, but are
paid about 25 per cent, less (in terms
of sterling) for the same length of
working week.”


NOW! Dental Science Shows that
Brushing Teeth Right After Eating with
COLGATE
DENTAL CREAM
STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Belter Than Any Other Way
of Preventing Tooth Decay According to Reports
in Authoritative Dental literature!
EVEN - MORE IMPORTANT,
THERE WERE NO NEW CAVI-
TIES WHATEVER for more
than 1 out of 3 who used Colgate
Dental Cream correctly! Not even
one new cavity in two full years!
No other dentifrice has proof of
such results! No dentifrices can
stop all tooth decay, or help
cavities already started. But the
Colgate way is the most effective
way yet known to help your
dentist prevent decay!
2 YEARS’ RESEARCH AT B
AMERICAN UNIVERSITIES
—case histories of hundreds of
people who used Colgate Dental
Cream right after eating—shows
the .Colgate way stops tooth decay
best! Better than any other home
method of oral, hygiene known!
Yes, both clinical and X-ray
examinations showed the Colgate
way stopped more decay for
more people—than ever before
reported in all dentifrice history!
Get more for your money! FAMILY ECONOMY SIZE, ONLY 3/3
f ALWAYS USE
COLGATE'S TO CLEAN
YOUR BREATH WHILE;
YOU CLEAN YOUR
'TEETH-AND HELP
STOP TOOTH DECAY!
■m.
m
f
No Other Toothpaste or Powder
AMMONIATED OR NOT
Offers Proof of Such Results!
D4/200
PIP
If your car ran on eight tyres instead of four
and you drove 24 hours a day for 4 years you
wouldn’t pile up as much tyre mileage as Good-
year drivers have in testing Super-Cushion Tyres.
In over 8,000,000 miles of test driving they have
proved this bigger, softer tyre gives more mileage
than conventional tyres, and far more comfort.
Super-Cushions will fit your present wheels, so,
see your Goodyear Dealer.
EVERYTHING A TYRE CAN DO
df
d
auAwn
DOES BETTER!
Here's how Super-Cushions out-
perform conventional tyres:
Softer, Smoother, Safer Ride . . .
Quicker Stops . . . Greater Traction
Easier Steering ... Less Driving Fatigue
Better Looking . . . Fewer Rattles and
Car Repairs ... More Car Economy
all this and GREATER
MILEAGE, TOO!
MORE PEOPLE,
THE WORLD OVER,
RIDE ON GOODYEAR TYRES
THAR ON ANY OTHER MAKE.
f
good/veab
81.3*1®
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“How many men would marry a
woman who could discuss the Ein-
stein theory?”— Woman’s magazine.
Relatively few, we imagine,
4* 4* 4*
“The urge of cricketers to write
books on the subject is becoming a
sort of virulent disease.”
—Sydney "Sun.”
Ah, well! The pen is mightier
than the sward.
“When you kiss a girl there’s no
need to dry-clean her.”
— Woman's paper.
Just press, your own suit.
4* 4* 4*
“The second-hand car business is
a thriving concern today.”
—Melbourne "Argus.”
It rests mainly on inflation.
4* 4* 4*
“Interjections and noise make
Parliament sound like a beer-garden
to radio-listeners.”
What ales it?
4* 4* 4*
“Suntan is no guarantee of health.”
—Sydney "D.T
In fact, it may only indicate
that you are browned-off.
4* 4* 4*' ,
“Well, in case a certain gentleman
who drives an Oldsmobile thinks his
was was stolen, let us just say at
present it is a resident in the office of
this paper.”— Suburban paper.
Taking all available space?
“When the mitral valve, which is
on the left side, becomes contracted,
blood-circulation is damned up in
the auricle.”
—Sydney "Sunday Sun.”
Resulting in a cursed giddy
turn.
4* 4* 4*
“For sale: Gent.’s bicycle, good
order, except saddle, £5. Roomy ice-
chest, good quality, £3.”
—Suburban paper.
Buyer will be able to get off
his bike and still keep cool.
Infra Dig.
“Kissing beautiful women, Davis
said, pays much better than digging
ditches. And it takes a lot less out
of a man!” — Sydney “Sun.”
Throw down your picks and
shovels, too.
And catch the boat to Holly-
wood
You husky, sweating navvies who
Have half an eye for what is
good.
Why should you excavate the
clay
For sewer, road or railway-line
When you can earn, a simpler
way,
Big cheques mid women, song
and wine.
Just show the moguls that you
can
Make kissing beauties quite a
game,
A sinecure for any man,
And you’ll be on the road to
fame.
But please accept one warning
word.
Relax and keep your hands
unclenched.
Or smoother types will be pre-
ferred
And soon you’ll find your-
selves retrenched.
BERT.
Something Mizzen.
“A New York paper advertises
phony television masts for three
dollars, guaranteed to convince the
neighbors that you own a set.”
— Cable.
I’ll lay the odds this piece of
bluff
For neighbors’ eyes was not
invented
By any man; this sort of stuff
Smacks more of spouses dis-
contented
Whose husbands can’t afford
enough
Of modern gadgets that define
In subtle ways a woman’s
standing
Amongst her sex. Who by design
Achieves at times a lead com-
manding
That causes rivals to repine.
But if my good wife has in mind
To practise such a slick decep-
tion,
I'm sure I’ll use a cheaper kind
Of substitute T.V. reception —
In fact, I’ll just run up a blind.
D. H. E.
Kremlin Chatter.
Joe casually glanced down the
daily list of those whose liquida-
tion he was about to authorise.
Suddenly he raised his eye-
brows.
“Notatoff!” he exclaimed. “It
“ Look-like this .”
must have been a serious crime
for the Assistant Commissar for
Torture to be included here.
Was he guilty of harboring anti-
Stalinist, deviationist, cosmopoli-
tanist or pro-Tito thoughts?”
“Not that we know of.
Marshal,” said Beria, the Secret
Police Chief. “His crime was
one much more heinous. We
got his son, who is a secret
N.K.V.D. agent, to lay a trap
for him. He showed his father
that picture in an American
magazine of a skier’s parallel
tracks which approach a huge
tree, then they part, one going
around one side of the tree and
the other track going aroimd the
other side ; then they join up and
go parallel again. Nobody in
Russia has ever been able to
make sense of it. Dmitri Nota-
toff reported that his father im-
mediately started laughing. He
was convicted of being guilty of
the worst crime any Communist
can be charged with —possessing
a sense of humor. He is a
traitor.”
Joe frowned. “As great as
Radek or Zhukov,” he said, as
he appended his signature.
“Npw,” he went on, after he
had finished. “What is the
latest on the hot war we’re
making by proxy?”
“Well,” put in Molotov, “since
the South Korean aggressors
made their initial hostile move
against us our North Korean
comrades have retreated forward
at great speed and have over-
run most of the South in their
stout defence.”
“Yes,” broke in Gromyko
solemnly. “Despite all the
efforts for peace that the Soviet
has made —after all, if we’d
been so inclined, there would
have been nothing to have
stopped us helping the North
Koreans —and the strict adher-
ence, as usual, to the policy of
non-intervention in the internal
affairs of other countries, the
warmongering Americans
have”
“All right, all right, Gromy-
ko,” interrupted Joe testily. “It
may be right enough to peddle
that stuff over the radio to the
mugs at home, but for Lenin’s
sake don’t keep bringing it up
here. You’ll be getting us all
that way that we’ll even be be-
lieving it ourselves, and then
we’ll be starting to think in a
woolly-headed way. How is
our latest Mark Two Yak do-
ing?”
“Splendid, Marshal,” replied
Molly. “The North Korean air
C.-in-C, Colonel-General Petrov
Petrovvitch, is delighted. One of
them was almost able to overtake
an Australian biplane-trainer.”
“It’s a pity all the Spitfires
and Hurricanes the Imperial and
Fascist British gave us during the
Hitler War fell to pieces be-
cause our mechanics didn’t know
how to service them,” said Joe
in a peeved voice. “The hated
English, too, showed plainly
their intention to launch a war
against us by refusing to make
a gift after the last war of spare
parts for them.”
“Talking of lend-lease stuff,
Marshal,” put in Molly. “I
have an idea we still have a few
Sherman tanks the Americans
gave us. We can’t get them to
go, but there are sure to be some
American mechanics captured in
North Korea where we are non-
intervening, and a blow-lamp
an inch from their eyes might
persuade them to get the Sher-
mans rolling. Then we could
broadcast to the world that the
North Koreans were using
American tanks secretly supplied
to them by the plutocratic
Imperialists of the New World
to make the Korean affair a
civil war, so that when the
country was economically
ruined the warmongering Demo-
cracies could take it over for
use as a springboard for an
attack on Siberia.” dn
Joe looked at his fellow
gangster almost with admira
tion “Molly,” he said S-
somely, sometimes I think that
in time you might become almost
half as great a tactician as I am
All right. Get the broadcast
prepared in advance.”
“But, what, Marshal,” asked
Gromyko, “if the Americans as
now seems likely, throw their
whole weight into the campaign
and drive the brave North
Korean defenders from the
, Will , we openly assist
the North and so commit our-
selves to fighting America, the
British Empire and about twenty
other countries at least? We’ve
got only two and a half atom-
bombs to about five hundred
that America has, and we’d have
to put up with having as allies
our Balkan satellites, and that
would take at least thirty of our
divisions to keep them on our
side, but”
Joe gave his Foreign Minister
a steely look. “Sometimes
Grommy,” he rasped, “you’re
positively half-witted. What do
you think we’d do? Dump
them cold like we did the
Persian and Greek Communists,
of course. If the Americans put
half a million half-baked Chows
in North Korea through the
mincing-machine, will that be
any scum off our vodka? Be
your age!”
“We might even finish up,”
went on Joe calmly, “by de-
nouncing North Korean aggres-
sion abhorrent to all true peace-
loving Communists like our-
selves, and declare the N.K.
Commo leaders who have failed
us Titoists —after all, one or
two more somersaults won’t
worry us. Our fifth-columns in
all democratic countries will, as
usual, follow our lead slavishly.
‘When Joe turns over, they turn
over.’ Eh?” And Joe, his
humor restored, laughed heartily.
Bo.


df
d
Cost
DOraM
comes the price of
'Bire
British Ball Point Pens
Two popular members of the
Biro Family now cost you less!
SEE YOUR BIRO DEALER TODAY
f
The BIRO
23/-
Biromatic
(Rhodium-plated)
33/*
Pat. no. 122073 8 Dee. 1943, Pat. no. 133163 31 Dec. 1943
16/16
Tour CAIRO
AS OUR GUEST
8S
S7S.
3»
V
£
£
*3
¥>
( As.
K4U
FLY THE “STERLING” ROUTE
TO LONDON
EXPENSE-FREE TOURS OF THREE FAMOUS CITIES
Marvel at the age-old mystery of the Sphinx, the
Pyramids, the Tombs, and the strange contrasts of
modern Cairo —on a conducted tour of this famous City
of the Nile —as you fly the “sterling” route to London,
in just 4 days. Stop-over anywhere —at no extra fare.
No currency problems —shop where you wish.
Fly above the weather in air-conditioned, 4-engined
Constellations Enjoy first-class food, aloft and aground
—and Q.E.A.-8.0.A.C.’s traditional standards of service.
Regular Services via Calcutta, with alternative route via
Colombo.
BBBE
Tours of fascinating
Singapore & Rome
also included without
charge.
For trip planning help,
full details of fares, time-
tables, etc., consult your
travel agent.
Q I'A and B'O'A'C
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS I
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS
parallel with
CORPORATION
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
One can reasonably assume that for
vears to come a stock pun among
the bookmaking fraternity will be
“Remember the 1950 Doomben Cup?
That was a dream result!” And,
indeed, it was. A dream result for
the straight-out operators, with the
three-year-old filly Dream all but
ignored in the betting, and starting
at 50 to 1; and, with the heavily
backed Rim Boy home and hosed in
the first leg, a miraculous let-out for
the doubles bookies. But they, by
now, must have become a trifle blase
towards such “miracles.”
Particularly, the Doomben Cup
victory was something of a real dream
result for the filly’s owner-trainer
Harry Lee, a wounded Old Digger
wlio has been more or less “battling”
around Queensland tracks for years
without previously managing to get
hold of a horse good enough to win
a really decent race. And although,
when she opened her account as
recently as April, Dream proceeded
to win four races in a row before
running unplaced in the Ten Thou-
sand, she was still eligible for Novice
company when she took her place in
the Cup field on Saturday. The
Doomben Cup has been a good race
for owners who do their own train-
ing. Since the race was instituted in
1933, owner-trained horses have won
10 of the 18 Cups contested.
If they are to prevent the almost
inevitable serious accident, stewards
will have to read the Riot Act in no
uncertain fashion before future run-
nings of the Ten Thousand and Cup
double. Like the Ten Thousand,
Saturday’s Cup was a pretty fierce
affair, with several strongly fancied
runners meeting bad interference.
However, while excuses could be
made for several of the beaten run-
ners, and while the warm favorite
Spellman could be really labelled
something of a good thing beaten,
there is no detracting from the merit
of Dream’s win. After being unable
to hold the good position she secured
at the start, Dream was forced to
race the greater part of the journey
several horses wide; she did not get
over to the rails again until she hit
the front inside the final furlong,
whereafter she battled on very gamely
to just hold off the strong challenge
from both Carapooe and Spellman,
who deadheated for second a head
behind the winner. Spellman, particu-
larly, finished in splendid style after
being in hopeless bother, and more
and more he impresses as the cut
of a really good horse.
Aptly named, being a daughter of
Talking-Nightmare, Dream com-
menced her racing career in Sydney,
carrying the all-green colors of Pat
Osborne —colors associated with one
of the greatest fillies ever seen on the
Australian Turf in Valicare. But
Dream was little credit to those
colors. Indeed, by odd coincidence,
on the Saturday that the Doomben
Cup was run last year Dream finished
stone motherless last in a field of 19
maiden two-year-old fillies at Canter-
bury. Following her Sydney failures
Dream was bought for 100 guineas
by a dealer and taken to Brisbane,
where she was auctioned and pur-
chased by Harry Lee for 400 guineas.
In stakes alone the investment has
returned Lee well over £5OOO.
* * * *
A fine but chilly day and a
moderately dead track added up to
just about perfect jumping condi-
tions at Flemington on Saturday, and
there was another very big crowd to
see the 76th running of the Grand
National Steeplechase.
In discussing Grand National pros-
pects here, it was suggested that
Benarca’s unfortunate habit of mix-
ing in one or two really poor jumps
with every otherwise excellent round
might prove his undoing when it came
to the 25 fences of the National
course. This fear was realised very
early in the piece, Benarca pitching
his rider at the third fence. Caledon
Castle and Colourline were others
who failed to complete the course,
but the real sensation of the piece
was the withdrawal, on stewards’
orders, of the hot favorite Bronze
Laddie after he had shown pro-
nounced lameness on his way round
to the start. Bets on the favorite
were ordered to be refunded and bets
on the winner were paid at tote odds.
The National provided an excep-
tionally thrilling race. There were
any number with a chance as the
field entered on the final mile, and
Parilla’s Pride, Jung Bahadur, Faunus
and Friotos all looked to be well in
it approaching the last fence. Parilla’s
Pride and Jung Bahadur took the
final jump dead level, and settled
down to a great battle in the run
home. Into the straight Jung Bahadur
had the advantage, and seemed likely
to increase it safely, but the South
Australian, conceding Jung Bahadur
261 b. in the weights, plugged on with
rare determination to draw level,
slowly inch ahead, and win by a
length. Four lengths further back
Faunus was third, followed by
Friotos, favorite Derris, then the rest
at long intervals.
A minor oddity of the National
result was that no fewer than seven
owners shared in the distribution of
the £3500 prizemoney. Parilla’s Pride
is owned in partnership by L. J.
Kenny, C. H. Lemmey and Mrs. H.
Quinton; Faunus also runs to three
owners. Ridden by R. Watts, who
previously won the National on Giant
Killer in 1939, and trained by J.
Wheeler, Parilla’s Pride is a compara-
tive youngster as National winners
go, being a five-year-old bay gelding
by Heroic’s Pride from Lyricism.
Backers of favorites had a poorish
run for their money on Derris in
the National, and they fared little
better in two other jumping events.
Nor, for that matter, was there much
consolation in the results of the four
flat events which completed the card.
The Enfield gelding King’s Walk (R.
Hall) was well supported at threes
for his victory over Student and
Elastm in the Doutta Galla Hurdle,
but the favorite, Tuckout, ran un-
placed. Similarly, in the Footscray
Steeple, Llandrillo, beating Don
Gipsy by some 15 lengths, had suffi-
cient admirers to start him at 4 to I,
but the favorite was Lucky Sign, who
failed to complete the course.
* * * *
As mentioned here at the time, the
second day of the A.J.C. Winter
Meeting at Randwick saw the miser-
able number of 67 starters contest a
card of seven races. For Saturday’s
S.T.C. meeting at Canterbury 81
horses had to be balloted out after
final acceptances. The Ashbury
Mixed Stakes (6f.) was divided,
making a card of eight races, and,
with 81 would-be runners forcibly
removed, there were still 137 horses
given the chance of a run. Whatever
the reason for such a remarkable
difference can be, it does seem that
it is something which deserves investi-
gating. It is certainly not a matter
of prizemoney, for the money at
Randwick was considerably higher.
And it isn’t purely a matter of the
S.T.C., with Mixed Stakes and the
like, catering for the poorer-class
animal, for the smallest field at the
Randwick meeting comprised the five
starters attracted by a Trial Stakes,
run at special weights with allow-
ances.
One thing definitely shown by
Saturday’s racing is that clubs might
just as well forget about the notion
of trying to cater for and encourage
“stayers” in the winter months. In
contrast to the vast lists of acceptors
for the shorter events there were only
six interested in the 12-furlongs
Canterbury Park Handicap, which
carried one of the biggest prizes of
the day. And the Club only obtained
that many starters by extending the
original closing date for nominations.
Of the class of the stayers who did
contest the race, suffice to say that
five were eligible for restricted races
and that the solitary open-company
winner engaged, Thimble, proved
quite capable of leading all the way
and winning by two lengths, although
at his previous start at Randwick
over the same distance he had
finished stone-last, after being close
to that position all the way.
The most interesting feature of the
day was the appearance of Blue
Mickie and Donegal, a couple of
English importations trained by
Mauricet McCarten* for Stanley
Wootten. As one would expect,
contesting the Flying, they performed
only moderately, but there is no
doubt about the English thorough-
bred. On appearance, with Donegal,
if anything, somewhat the more
handsome, they made most of the
others look like common hacks.
Winner of the Flying was Salamanca,
beautifully ridden by apprentice B.
Killian to down Silique and Dalston.
In other events at Canterbury, Botany
Bay raced out of restricted company
by winning the first Ashbury Mixed
with the maximum, 9st., while Tea
Towel (W. Briscoe) advanced a class
in winning the second division; both
ridden by G. Podmore, Gold Blaze
beat other maiden two-year-old fillies
oyer six furlongs and Bahram’s
Double, who we predict will win
better races, similarly beat the colts
and geldings; Noah’s Ark (B. Moon)
moved off the maiden mark in win-
ning the Burwood Mixed (9f.); and
old Rifle (W. Cook), after a couple
of years’ absence, returned to the
winning list in the Welter (9f.).
Recalling Dream’s performance at this
meeting last year it may be worth
noting that one Lady Kendrick
finished last of the 20 runners in
Gold Blaze’s race.
♦ * ♦ «
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances) :
Two - year - old Handicap; Old
Jamaica, 1; Bahram’s Double, ,2;
Regal Gold, 3. Earlwood Mixed:
Dixie Belle, 1; Thunderer, 2; Bon-
fire, 3, Fixed Weight Maiden: Tele-
print, 1; Editor, 2; Antinos, 3.
Flying: Denali, 1; Brazier, 2;
Castlebrae, 3. Canterbury Park
Handicap : Air Flare, 1; Saville Row,
2; Burnley, 3. Welter: Auburn
River, 1; Susan, 2; Valiant Lee, 3.
♦ * * *
Winding-up at the weekend,
Wimbledon followed the pattern that
has become familiar in post-war years.
Once again Australians and Ameri-
cans dominated proceedings; once
again the singles final was an Aus-
tralia v. U.S.A. affair; and, un-
happily, once again it was the
American who came out on top. It
was a pity, really, for the young
Australian Sedgman had shown a
grand fighting spirit in getting through
to the final. He won both his
quarter- and semi-final matches after
each time losing the first two sets,
and that takes what many of our
leading players seem to lack. How-
ever, all credit to the American
Budge Patty, who won the final
6-1, 8-10, 6-2, 6-3.
The final was not a great tennis
match. Both players were plainly
very tired, and little wonder. Earlier
they had participated in a doubles
quarter-final which involved the
longest set on record at Wimbledon.
It was a match in which Patty and
Trabert beat Sedgman and McGregor,
6-4, 31-29, 7-9, 6-2. As there were
already three other Australian pairs
in the doubles quarter-finals, while
Sedgman was Australia’s last hope in
the singles, it seemed senseless for
him to participate in the doubles
match; as it was, the doubles final
was an all-Australian affair, with the
Old Firm of Bromwich and Quist
beating Brown and Sidwell, 7-5, 3-6,
6-3, 3-6, 6-2.
One thing should be learned from
this year’s Wimbledon —that our top
singles players, at least, should be
forcibly restrained, if necessary, from
entering all three events. An Aus-
tralian boycotting of the mixed
doubles would doubtless cause much
heartburning among the American
lasses, who fairly rush our chaps for
partners; but the reason for this is
simply that their own men have had
enough sense to wipe the mixed
doubles ages ago.
« * * • •
V.F.L. football this season has pro-
duced Essendon as the dominating
team, with Melbourne and North
Melbourne well back and a lot of
daylight between them and Carlton,
Geelong and Richmond. St. Kilda,
which opened the season with a “fine
rapture” and five wins in a row, has
faded to the pathetic position of not
even being capable of holding Foots-
cray. On Saturday the Dons con-
tented themselves with an easy 12.17-
9.7 win over Fitzroy, while at Carl-
ton the Blues, at home to Melbourne
in the match of the day, were in
the hunt for about 20 minutes, and
for the rest traded bumps with
the opposition; Melbourne bumped
better, 10.14 to 8.15. Fqotscray
astonished itself by downing St.
Kilda, 11.10-8.11; Richmond aston-
ished North by fast centre play, and
won, 10.10-8.9; Hawthorn was
astonished by Geelong’s kindness in
kicking only 16.15 to Hawthorn’s
4.12; and Collingwood and South
Melbourne astonished the scorers
with behinds, ’Wood getting one
more than “Sowth,” 16.21-9.20.
* * « *
“Pass-it” compares centres:
Just now, with Australian Rugby
Union captain Trevor Allan notching
up a record in captaining Australia
more times than any other player,
and with teams he has led haying had
a fair measure of success in inter-
national football, many are ranking
him among the greatest centres of all
time; in particular, he has been com-
pared with Cyril Towers, the former
centre, whose personality
and play dominated Australian foot-
ball for more than 15 years.
Anyone risking such a comparison
either must have a short memory or
else never really appreciated the full
quality of Towers’s superb football.
Allan, like Towers, is blessed with
a strong physique, more than average
speed, an extraordinary zest for play-
ing and great stamina. A player with
these natural qualities must stand
out; but whereas Towers became a
student of the real science of the
game, mastered the arts of passing
and positioning to perfection and
learned to make the utmost use of
his natural qualities, Allan has made
little improvement in his game, despite
the experience of three overseas
tours. Allan goes on to the field
well equipped to take advantage of
the opportunities that come his way;
Towers went on to the field likewise
equipped, but with the additional aim
and ability to create those oppor-
tunities.
Howsoever, if somewhat short of
Towers, Allan is a topline footballer
among present players, and continues
to lead his side to victory. In
Saturday’s competition round Gordon
remained undefeated in beating Easts,
12-9. In other matches, Randwick
upset calculations by tossing Wests,
16-6; Manly scraped home against
University, 17-16; Parramatta beat
Drummoyne, 11-8; and St. George
downed Eastwood, 11-9.
* * * *
Locke, the South African pro., won
the British Open last week with 279
for the 72 holes, four strokes under
the record. He joins a distinguished
company of players who have won
the Open twice in succession—the
others, James Braid (1905-06), Bobby
Jones (1926-27) and Walter Hagen
(1928-29). Locke had to shoot a
final 68 to beat the Argentinian,
Vincenzo, by two strokes; Daly (Ire-
land) and Rees, the likeable little
Welshman who was here recently, tied
in third place with 282 each.


STRONGER!
unbreakable
ELASTRATOR
(REGD. TRADE MARK)
The Glee* J&Hj "
for marking lambs & calves
Obtainable from Station Suppliers, Woolbrokers,
Chemists and Stores. A product of ELASTRATOR
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
ELS
df
d
ATTENTION GARDENERS
“SHRUBS AND TREES FOR
AUSTRALIAN GARDENS”
By E. E. LORD
The most comprehensive volume available. Con-
tains 166 illustrations with 18 plates in full colour.
The index comprises a list of 4700 common and
botanical references. Price £5 ss. od. (Post Free
£5 7s. od.).
Available NOW at all good Booksellers, or from
LOTHIAN PUBLISHING
COMPANY PTY.. LTD.,
1 Fleming Place, Melbourne. hmitted
Authors are asked to mark their name and address clearly on all M • su
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking entfery cloth to
grinder discs-*—recommended for shearing-shed work.
■■
-:■
l.i
f
df
4oz. t 802., 1662., 1 gallon .ize. . . . Hardware and general
store**
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Killing Sheep-flies.
“3298”: My father managed
a small sheep-station for a
number of years and his success
in handling the blowfly menace
was marked. His method was
simplicity itself. When we found
a dead sheep some steel droppers
and a small coil of netting were
used to fence the carcass in, then
green bushes were carted and
placed over it. He then made up
a mixture of five gallons of
of water, 21b. of washing soda,
11b. of white arsenic, a tin (21b.)
of treacle and a bar of soap.
This was boiled till all ingredients
were dissolved and allowed to
cool. When the carcass had
reached the green stage we took
a goodly quantity of the mix-
ture, the amount depending on
the amount of wool on the car-
cass, and the carcass was soaked
but not disturbed.
This treatment was repeated in
four or five days’ time, first re-
moving the bushes and replenish-
ing with fresh boughs. Another
visit was, made in four or five
days’ time, depending on the
weather, and the procedure re-
peated. By this time the dead
flies were inches thick on the
ground, and again in four or
five days’ time the dose would be
repeated, but this time the car-
cass would be turned over, re-
vealing a moving mass of
maggots, and five gallons of the
mixture would be poured over
the carcass, and more fiesh
bushes placed over it, and the
whole left till it dried up, when
everything could be burned.
We have poisoned blowflies in
such quantities that they could
be shovelled up in heaps. We
used the same mixture in a kero-
sene-tin flytrap, and used livers
for bait. These were hung in
the shadiest trees near watering-
places, particularly in the back
paddocks and also around sheep-
yards. Sometimes we crutched
and sometimes we didn’t, de-
pended on the season, but our
proportion of flyblown sheep
over the shearing board would
average about two per thousand.
Hybrid Maize.
“C.S.”: It filled first and
second places in the Sydney
R.A.S. maize crop champion-
ships this year.
Tompkins Bros.’ crop at
Mudgee was one of the most
outstanding ones ever judged. It
was of “Sterling Hybrid”
(N.E.H. 16), bred at New Eng-
land Experiment Farm, Glen
Innes, and conservatively
estimated to yield 138 bushels
per acre. It had weathered three
floods, one of which, just prior
to tasselling, completely sub-
merged the crop. Although it
was swiftly-flowing water on this
occasion, and on two other
occasions when the water was
nearly up to cob height, the
number of lodged or uprooted
stalks was negligible. This was
due to the strong stalks and
deep-rooting habit of the hybrid.
Funk’s Yellow Dent subjected
to the same conditions was
almost a complete failure. All
the entries in the Mudgee local
competition were of hybrid
strains, and they averaged 115
bushels per acre.
Lodge and Hartshorn’s crop at
Tumut was estimated to yield
100 bushels per acre, being very
uniform, almost free of weeds,
a good stand and very little
disease. It was of the Queens-
land hybrid Q 431, bred at Lawes
Agricultural College, too late in
maturity for this district, but
fortunate this season to get
through, as frosts were much
later than usual. The ears were
not fully developed. Early-
maturing hybrids are more suited
to the district, high yields in
district trials this season having
been obtained with such strains
as Regal, Dawn, Sterling, Sunrise
and D.S. 28.
Shearing Film.
“C.S.”: Judged by the re-
quests for copies of the Aus-
tralian Wool Board film, “Shear-
ing at Big Billabong,” it is
the most popular picture made
by the Board. In all, 27 copies
have been sent to the United
Kingdom, New Zealand, South
Africa, India, Holland, the
United States and other coun-
tries.
“Billabong,” being essentially
an Australian word, has no
French equivalent, so it was de-
cided to retain the word in the
French script, and the French
title is “La Xonte a Big Billa-
bong.” “Natives of Australia”
would hardly have done for
“aborigines” because it would
have included whites as well as
blacks, so the word “aborigines”
was retained. After much
thought the term “musterers” be-
came the French words for “men
on horses.” A copy of the film,
with the French commentary,
has been sent to the French
branch of the International
Wool Secretariat in Paris.
Grapevine Diseases.
“Rooster”: Good - bearing
vines are often ruined for want
of attention during winter. All
vines should be swabbed every
year during late winter, the only
effective safeguard against the
black-spot. Standard swab solu-
tion comprises 351 b. of sulphate
of iron, 81b. of sulphuric acid
and 10 gallons of water. The
ingredients are highly corrosive ;
“ Cripes! Won't I be glad when daylight comes!”
wooden tubs or barrels must be
used. To prepare the solution
pour the acid over the sulphate
of iron crystals and add hot
water. Beware of being splashed.
Immediate effect of swabbing
is to retard growth for about a
fortnight; later the vines go
ahead vigorously, leaving un-
swabbed vines far behind in
foliage growth. Swab all parts
of trunks and branches
thoroughly. Apply with small
mops on long wooden handles,
or use an ordinary whitewash
brush.
Some spores of the fungi
which cause black-spot may sur-
vive the swabbing, and it then
becomes necessary to spray the
vines during spring and summer
with Bordeaux mixture made up
from 101 b. of bluestone, 51b. of
fresh quicklime and 50 gallons
of water.
Where the disease has been
very bad during previous seasons
it is advisable to apply a second
swab, allowing a fortnight be-
tween first and second. The
latter should be modified in
strength, reduced to 201 b. of sul-
phate of iron, 81b. of sulphuric
acid and 10 gallons of water.
Time of. application should, be
as near as possible to bursting
of buds. Once growth begins
swabbing is useless. Safe method
is to apply first swab three or
four weeks before sprouting is
expected, leaving sufficient time
for a second application should
it be required.
Black-spot is easily confused
with oidium, though there’s a
pronounced difference. The
former leaves sunken scars on
canes, oidium does not. Con-
trol of oidium is effective with
dustings of sulphur, using about
81b, to 101 b. an acre. In locali-
ties where the disease is likely to
be severe it’s a sound programme
to spray in early October, late
October and again in January,
A Poisonous Weed.
“Weedexp”: Hemlock has
appeared in the Toowoomba
and Gatton districts of Queens-
land. Commonly known as
“fern plant” or “carrot fern,” it
is freely and sometimes proudly
grown in suburban gardens, but
is an extremely dangerous weed
which for centuries has been
known as poisonous to stock and
man. It is believed to. have
been used by the ancient Greeks
to execute State prisoners;
among them Socrates. Norm-
ally, a spring and early summer
growing annual or biennial herb,
attaining a height of 3ft. to
sft., and with a finely-divided
fern-like leaf, it very much
resembles the well - known
“Bishop’s weed” or “meadow
sweet.” It can be distinguished
from this, however, by the
presence of purple spots or
blotches on the stems and
branches and by the strong,
mouse-like smell. The small
white flowers are produced in
umbrella-like clusters.
Several alkaloids have been
extracted from the plant, and
experience in Europe has shown
that in early growth the toxic
properties are chiefly to be
found in the leaves. As the
plant develops fruit, the alka-
loids move into them and reach
a maximum concentration in un-
ripe seeds. The symptoms of
poisoning are dilated pupils,
rolling eyes, with sometimes loss
of sight, excessive saliva, soon
followed by weakness and then
paralysis of the limbs and lungs,
labored breathing and slowing of
heart action. Prior to death,
which occurs in a few hours
convulsions occur. Treatment is
to administer an emetic 0 f
mustard or sulphate of zinc, and
then keep the body warm.
This weed should be rooted
out of every home garden and
burned, and on grazing n ro .
perties should be promptly dealt
with by poisoning or hoeing out
Incidentally, the new hormone
weed-killers are effective against
it in concentrations as low as
0.1 per cent.
Shifting Beehives.
“Soc”: Most beemen, while
welcoming the prospects of a
new flow just opening up, do not
look forward to the drudgery of
the shift. This sometimes
entails an all-night drive, in-
variably after a long day’s
“strapping-up” and blocking the
entrances. Though modern
trucks are good docile creatures
it is not always just a matter of
getting in and belting the
speedo; engine trouble, tyre
trouble and, to a lesser extent,
getting bogged and losing the
way all combine to make the
necessary task a bugbear.
The honey-getter’s ability to
adapt other people’s inventions
to further his own ends stands
him in good stead as far as the
preparations go, as evidenced by
the strapping- and wiring-
machines generally used by the
big warehouses, and invariably
used by the beemen today in
lieu of the old-fashioned—and
still used —slat-nailing.
Blocking the entrance is indi-
vidual ; some use a shutter which
is a permanent fixture to the
hive, ottiers use a fin. wood cleat.
One man in the N.S.W. nor’-
west uses socks —cast-offs from
his own feet and those of his
half-dozen hired men—working
on the proven point that bees
detest anything woollen and shy
away from it. All —or nearly all
—use wire screens to allow the
generated heat of the disturbed
bees to get away. Many hives
melt down every honey season in
spite of this “shift” precaution.
Canning-peach Varieties.
“Mr.”: Yield, size of fruit,
absence of pre-harvest drop,
resistance to pests and diseases,
time of maturity and ease of
cultural management are all im-
portant to the commercial peach-
grower, but he mustn’t forget
the buyer whose decision will
ultimately determine whether he
is to succeed or fail. The fruit
qualities most desired by the
canner are flesh quality, color,
texture, flavor, pit, size and shape
and ability to withstand storage,
transport and processing.
R. Harper, manager of Tatura
Research Station (Vic.), points
out that, with the development


MODERN
SANITATION
d
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
(Complete self-contained sanitary system)
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING
NO WATER SUPPLY
NECESSARY
fd
f
ANY HANDYMAN CAN iNSTAL IT
Sewage material is chemically transformed into a
sterile solution that runs away into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 22 years
Write for free illustrated pamphlet
-DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenators (QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Melnemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
“Phenovis" Worm Remedy
inching H
&' Louis'
/',//
■/////,
/.
'///,.
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
r
m**
‘PHENOVIS
Phenothiazine Drench
d
fd
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-8191
FOR SALE:
"DONALDS" No. 1 PATENT WOOL PRESS
In new condition, with EXTRA TROLLEY
Price £45 ex Store
r. R, STRANGE PTY. LIMITED 57 North George Street, SYDNEY
Telegrams “Strangelim,” Sydney. Phone BW oiJ.I.
HOW TO SINK A TANK
WITH OLIVER-BRITSTAND
*u f ., -fjpm
I * * im I
... -4
Construction starts of a 33,000 “yarder.” The Oliver tractor at left hauls
a 5-tyne ‘Britstand’ Super-Rooter. At right the Oliver ‘FDE’ removes
the topsoil with a ‘Britstand’ Cl 4 Scraper.
m
.
’ s 'i
; -i '!
fM
-
s
m
m
m
• ■■■■
9 Under way. The “FDE” hauls the loaded Cl 4 Scraper up the corner of
the batter. This unit has consistently averaged 1000 cu. yds. excavated
per drum of fuel, in tank sinking.
* «
V*
- * • .3
■ m i -v ....
V
m
m
m i
i m
imam
i mm
- • w ’.
A finished Tank. Capacities vary greatly from 2000 yds. (finished
in 2j to 3 working days with one equipment combination) to 65,000
yds. (completed by the Oliver-Britstand team in 24 working days).
I<KK*5
COVER MODEL ‘DDH’
'THE OEIVEK-BKITSTAND
* team of tractors and equip-
ment is a leader in the field
of tank sinking and water
conservation. Mr. Max. Burns
of Clermont (Q) probably
Australia’s biggest tank sinker
says; “In the far outback
it’s essential to have the
very best ... I have three
Oliver ‘FDEs’ all Britstand
equipped—and will be buying
many more.” Ask your Oliver
Distributor about the full
OLIVEK-BKITSTAND range.
OLIVER TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS AND
BRITSTAND EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
Q.:
N.S.W.:
VIC. & TAS.
S.A.:
W.A.:
N.Z.;
DISTRIBUTORS
U.K. and Dominion Motors, 365-379 Wickham Street,
Brisbane.
Britstand Distributors Limited, SG-6i Gardeners Road,
Mascbt, Sydney,
Queen’s Bridge Motor & Engineering Company, Pty.
Etd., 31-43 Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne, 5.C.4.
Waymouth Motor Company Etd., 42 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.'
Skipper Bailey Motor Company Etd., 900 Hay Street,
Perth.
Frederic W. Smith Limited, Nathan’s Buildings, Grey
Street, Wellington, C.l.
Send Coupon for FREE Booklet!
Oliver-Britstand Distributors
BOX 4726, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Please send me free booklet on Oliver
Tractors and Britstand Equipment.
(bbitstand)
££I#OARD
f
NAME
ADDRESS
0 f pitting-machines in recent
years, the size, shape and posi-
tion of the pit in the fruit greatly
influence the rate at which the
fruit can be handled in the
factory, and the number of cans
packed per ton of fresh fruit
delivered. The number of peach
varieties capable of meeting
these requirements is limited,
says Harper, but in the light
of present knowledge, the depart-
ment could recommend the fol-
lowing: Early—Young’s Cling,
Levis; mid-season Phillip’s
Fairless, Stanford, Golden
Queen, Warden; late—Wight,
Windra, Pullar. Harper is im-
pressed with Wight (known as
Transvaal in New South Wales)
and considers it likely ultimately
to replace Pullar as the main
late-season variety in the Goul-
burn Valley.
Rice in the North.
“C.S.”: Huge areas of the
Northern Territory and Kimber-
ley are suitable for growing rice,
according to a report submitted
to the Federal Government by
the Rice Association. It was
compiled by W. Poggendorff,
chief of the Plant Industry Divi-
sion of N.S.W, Department of
Agriculture.
The report envisages vast
potential ricefields near Darwin,
Wyndham and Derby. Poggen-
dorff says normal rainfall and
seasonal flooding should provide
sufficient water for rice, making
irrigation unnecessary. Before
publication of the report it was
understood that rice could not
be grown there without build-
ing a dam costing about
£20,000,000.
As soon as 10,000 acres come
under cultivation a rice mill will
be built. According to U.N.O.
and the British Ministry of
Food, the world will be short of
rice for the next 25 years, thus
assuring an enormous future
market.
Milk Production.
“Agric”: According to R. D.
Chester, a Queensland cattle
husbandry expert, one of the
greatest limiting factors in full
milk production, per cow in
Queensland is the low protein
content of much of the dairying
pastures.
For full milk yield, a dairy
cow requires approximately 13
per cent, of protein in her diet.
On protein-deficient pastures a
cow loses condition in attempt-
ing to make up the deficiency
from her own body stores, and,
after a short time, milk yield
begins to fall. Under good
calving conditions a cow has an
increased milk yield for 10 days
or more, and then there is a
gradual fall after six or seven
weeks’ milking. At the end of
three or four months the cow
which gave three gallons at
freshening is down to a gallon
a day, although there might still
be adequate mature grass in the
paddocks; the reduction being
due to lack of protein and not
to lack of bulk or of actual
feed units available in the pas-
ture.
By feeding small amounts of
concentrate containing a high
percentage of protein, a farmer
could usually step up production
markedly, provided the quantity
fed was not overdone, said
Chester. A handsome profit
could be shown when the value
of the extra milk was offset
against the cost of the concen-
trate, he added.
Hints for the Farm.
“Rooster”: Rhizoctonia and
common scab of potatoes is best
controlled by immersing the seed
in solution of corrosive subli-
mate. Dissolve 4oz. of cor. sub.
in two pints of concentrated
hydrochloric acid (commercial).
Dilute with water in wooden vat
to 25 gallons. Dip the crate of
seed into the vat and allow 10
minutes. Renew solution after
about 15 dippings. Dry seed
rapidly after dipping. Twenty-
five gallons of dip will treat one
ton of seed.
“Sundowner”: Early peas
may be sown from July on-
ward. Sow in ridges in warmest
and best-drained part of garden.
Black cotton along each- row
will give protection from birds;
also useful for this purpose is
a strip of fine mesh netting bent
into arches and pegged down
with wire hooks.
“Myrrhee”; A correctly-
adjusted separator should pro-
duce skim-milk with a butterfat
percentage test of not more than
0.06 p.c., but it’s a safe bet that
most exceed this figure, in which
case cream is going to the pigs
and calves. Tests by Vic. De-
partment of Agriculture show
that some separated milks test
as high as 0.13. On this figure
at present butterfat prices, a
farmer separating 100 gallons of
milk a day would lose £35 a
year. The department advises
making a periodical check on
the separator, using the Butyl
alcohol test. Any butter-factory
tester or district dairy supervisor
can do this in a few minutes,
“Malvern”: Young pigs re-
quire nicotinic acid, the anti-
pellagra vitamin required by all
animals, including man. Best
way to supply it in the piggery is
to toss in a sheaf of hay at
regular intervals. See that the
hay is reasonably fresh and
entirely free from mould. •
“Camber”: Where some pad-
dock feed is available a daily
ration of 4oz. or soz. of wheat
is sufficient for a dry sheep, but
if there is no other feed a fully-
grown sheep will require up to
16oz. For the first two days
feed daily, increasing the
amount by £oz. daily until the
full amount it is intended to
feed is reached. Trouble caused
by feeding wheat to sheep
usually occurs during the first
few days among animals given
too much before they are used
to it. Scatter thinly on hard,
clean ground so that all sheep
can feed without jostling. Give
wheat-fed sheep a lick of two
bags of powdered limestone to
a bag of salt.


There's
no friend
like an old
friend ■
SCOTLAND
CT) c GxLUim's
c %
Scots CO hisky
•u«qn [»ou«6c6 «8or) c **6Nt*
The name is_
(DCodlum's
Genuine REISER pattern
SECATEURS
MANUFACTURED FROM SOLID STEEL WITH
TOLEDO alloy steel cutting blade, and steel
lining on lower jaw.
Price 32/6 each, post free.
TOLEDO STEEL COMPANY,
P.O. Box 15, Mosman, N.S.W.
Trade enquiries to STANLEY F. COFFEY, 24 Bond St., Sydney
w W T
Every Rolls lighter is precision built for
unfailing service. Fully automatic, with
built-in windguard, spare flint recess.
Five year guarantee. Chrome, 39/6.
Distributed by WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED
it lights eve rtf time
d
Legal Notice.
IN the Kstate of MARY ANN BROWN
deceased and MARY HELEN DEVINE
BROWN, both formerly of Thornwood
Estate, Mlanje, Nyasaland.—PUßSUANT
to an Order of His Majesty’s High Court
of Justice in Nyasaland made on the 12th
day of April 1950 and directing that
enquiries be made as to possible claimants
in the matter of the Estate of Mary
Helen Devine Brown deceased Cause No. 9
of 1947 and in the matter of the Estate
of Mary Ann Brown deceased Cause No.
10 of 1947 persons claiming to be the
heir at law of the said Mary Helen
Devine Brown late of Mlanje in the Nyasa-
land , Protectorate living at the time of
the death of the said Mary Helen Devine
Brown on the Twenty fourth day of
November One thousand nine hundred and
forty six and persons claiming to be the
heir at law of the said Mary Ann Brown
deceased late of Mlanje aforesaid living
at the time of the death of the said Mary
Ann Brown on the Nineteenth day of
August One thousand nine hundred and
forty six or persons claiming to be next
of kin according to the Statutes for
the distribution of intestate estates of the
said Mary Helen Devine Brown and/or
the said Mary Ann Brown living at the
time of their respective deaths as aforesaid
or to be the legal personal representatives
of such of the said next of kin as are
now dead or persons claiming to be en-
titled under the Wills and Codicils of the
abovenamed deceased or Charitable Insti-
tutions and persons claiming to be
entitled under the said Wills and Codicils
of the said deceaseds ARE by their soli-
citors on or before the Thirteenth day of
November One thousand nine hundred and
fifty to come in and prove their claims
at the Chambers of His Honour the
Chief Justice for Nyasaland at the High
Court of Blantyre or in default thereof
they shall be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said Order. Monday
the Fifteenth day of January One thou-
sand nine hundred and fifty one at 9
o’clock of the forenoon at the said
Chambers is appointed for the hearing
and adjudicating upon the claims. Dated
this Twelfth day of April, One thou-
sand nine hundred and fifty.—(Sad.)
M. J. GOW, Registrar, High Court of
Nyasaland. " *
f
m ,
(10*
IS MODERN NOW
THANKS TO ALADDIN
Good lighting cool, quick
cooking efficient heating:
Aladdin makes these city com-
forts easily available for
country homes. Decide now
to "Aladdin-ise" your home
with these efficient, easy-to-
use Aladdin products.
HOME IS BRIGHTER
I
gj£i
df
.Immediate, bright,
/steady 75 c.p. light
without pumping. No
smoke or fumes!
Aladdin Mantle
Lamps add beauty
and comfort and
are the simplest of
all lamps to operate
full range is now
available.
WORK IS LIGHTER
5-BURNER
KEROSENE
RANGE
d
fd
All the con-
venience of
a gas or
elec t r i c
stove! The
Aladdin
p r essure-
kerosene upright model Range has
5 burners, adjustable to any heat
required. Oven cooks to perfec-
tion. Simple and safe to operate.
Ideal for pressure cooking.
WARMTH WHERE
IT'S WANTED
f
ENGLISH ROOM-WARMER:
Designed on an
entirely new prin-
ciple, this modern
central - heating
unit gives even-
temperature heat-
ing at low cost.
Burns lighting
kerosene. Heat
is apdjustable.
IT HEATS
AND COOKS!
HEATER COOKER
in winter it's a
glowing radiator —
in summer an
efficient
cooker! You'll
use it all the
year round.
Adjustable
flame, de-
tachable heat-
reflector.
m
THERE ARE AUTHORISED ALADDIN
DISTRIBUTORS IN * LL y t q WNS
SUBURBS AND COUNTRY TOW
COMM
KEROSENE APPLIANCES
ALADDIN INDUSTRIES Pt 9 .W
BOURKE ST.. WATERLOO N S.
68/141* 16A
enclosure —it looked like some-
thing big. As he moved for-
ward a thought checked him. It
might be a crocodile.
But no, he could see more
clearly now. It was big, all right,
some colored tropical fish,
striped and banded like . . .
God! Like that girl’s skirt.
He ran forward clumsily. His
feet sucked in the wet sand. His
heart had begun to thud, his
mouth was dry, his palms
sweated. Yes, there was no
doubt it was the striped skirt,
floating wetly, its colors darkened
by water. Beside it lay what
looked like a bunch of brown
seaweed.
HE wound his way into the
trap and snatched her up,
but the stiff body seemed sud-
denly to resist him. One hand
was clenched around an upright.
He struggled to unflex the stiff
fingers. Still he could not raise
the body. One leg was caught
by the ankle beneath the cross-
wires, firmly fixed into the yield-
ing sand by long stanchions. He
ran to the utility for a crowbar,
and levered the wires up. The
flesh was rubbed raw about her
ankle, cut deeply with her
struggles to free it. Her hands
were scratched, the fingernails
broken and filled with sand,
showing how frantically she had
dug only a few hours before. He
shuddered and leant against the
trap a moment, feeling sick. If
he had been any later —if he
hadn’t come this afternoon —the
sea-eagle .. . and then the crabs.
His imagination presented to
his shrinking mind the picture
of her lonely death ; of the first
panic at the yielding sand, the
struggle making the foot sink
deeper, the frantic efforts to free
it giving way to a more philo-
sophical wait for the rescue that
must come. How she must have
felt a little embarrassed, waiting
for the R.A.AJF. men to come
and catch her red-handed in
their fish-trap.
And then the cold fear, grow-
ing, growing, as the first little
ripples made their innocent-ugly
rushes about her feet, and the
sea deepened inexorably, and nc
one came.
If he had not struggled with
himself so long, if he had come
earlier, as he had wanted to
come, and found her in time,
what might or might not have
happened? Strangely, under-
neath all the horror of the
moment he felt a new lightness,
as though "a heavy weight had
been lifted; he had escaped.
HE picked up the stiff form.
Artificial respiration? He
would try, but it was obviously
too late. He averted his eyes
from the pinched, blue face —
she was no longer pretty now —
and carried the body up the
beach.
brotherly advice despite the
shocking way in which he had
misrepresented the condition of
his vehicle.
“I suppose the engine and
transmission are in the same
condition as the body. Well,
look here: it’s an entirely dif-
ferent proposition to what you
led me to believe. I’d have to
take a hundred pounds off the
estimate I gave you. But I’m
not going to try to force you
into selling it to me at what I
can afford to give you for it. If
you’ve got a better offer else-
where, I’d advise you to go and
take it. I never have any luck
with Vamps anyway; can’t
manage to sell them somehow.”
And there he gave Stone a
.smile that was the first sugges-
tion of Vocational Service he’d
noticed so far.
“Well, I have got a better
offer,” Stone said ; and to
bolster up his wounded morale
he made it sound considerably
better than it actually was; “a
very much better offer, in fact,”
“You go and take it, that’s
my advice,” Espinall said, with
an air that was quite benevolent.
“As I said before, I never did
like handling Vamps.”
STONE walked down'to Rig-
man’s knowing that if it
came to a showdown he’d have
to accept the £290, but hoping
still for a rise after the way
Rigman had been affected last
night. At least Rigman would
have no sort of superstitious
aversion for Vamps, having been
the agent for Vampires for
about twenty years.
But Rigman greeted him
curtly.
“Have you sold your car
yet?” he asked bluntly, though
he should have known that
Stone would not be back there
if he had. It seemed, in fact
that he guessed Stone had been
to his rival, and he couldn’t bear
to think about him despite the
demonstration of the night
before.
“I’ve come to give you an-
other chance,” Stone said, as he
thought, very diplomatically,
“because you ought to know
how to sell Vamps.”
“Well, you’ve got something
there,” Rigman agreed more
affably, “I know how to sell
Vamps, and by cripes I need to
when it comes to ’thirty-five
models. They’re going down
and down. I can offer you
two hundred and eighty pounds
today.”
Stone was stupefied.
“But you didn’t put a time
limit on your offer yesterday.”
“Oh, yes,” Rigman gave a
curt, arrogant nod of his head.
“That’s the way I do business.
Take it or leave it; no running
round the town with my price.”
And the way he said it
assured Stone that he might as
well have gone to the talkies last
night and expected the celluloid
romances to carry over into the
real, world of next day as
expect to draw any assistance
from the ideals of Service which
had animated Rigman at the
Rotary dinner.
He heard the school bell ring-
ing and knew that he must hurry
to his job.
“All right,” he said to Rig-
man. “I’ll call this afternoon
for the cheque.”
And as he walked back along
the street past Espinall’s with all
its modern glitter and shining
expensive cars in the windows,
he cursed and muttered to him-
self, because these men made
him, a high-school teacher and
a 8.A., feel like the most callow
of his pupils.
AT the school the other
teachers saw his long face,
and began to chip him.
“What! Looking so glum
after last night’s triumph at the
Rotarv Club?”
“All the town is talking about
how you brought Rigman and
Espinall together.”
“And getting Rigman to give
awav ten pounds! That was
the biggest triumph of all.”
But Stone could stand no
more.
“Oh, shut up, you mugs,” he
said. “Rigman didh’t give that
tenner. I did.”


THE ON Li THING TO
REPLACE IU
BELTS MG IS MORE—
mm
I I
mu
ip
mmm
■ :
:.
m
\ # S ' ♦ tfV
ill
»**v
z
■
i
Wa
d
LIFETIME
LEATHER
BELTING
fd
ON INITIAL COSTS
f
ON MAINTENANCE
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
feotures:-
• "WET-FRAMED" STRETCHED
• UNIFORM QUALITY
• "DEEP WELD" ADHESIVE
• SUPERIOR CO-EFFICIENT
OF FRICTION
• LONG LIFE.
No belting has more proved, practical applications than
PIONEER BELTING, a name famous in Australia for 92
years.
Pioneer Belting often saves money on "initial costs" and
keeps saving it by providing continuous years of trouble-
free transmission.
The only replacement for Pioneer Belting is more Pioneer
Belting,
d
J. C. lUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W. 20-26 QUEEN'S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE, VIC.
OTHER LUDOWICI LINES OF EQUIPMENT INCLUDE:— Rubber Belting, Conveyor and Elevator Belting, Round Leather
Belting, Textile Leathers, Belting Accessories. Leather Packings, High-Speed Grinder Belts, V Belt Drives, Industrial
Clutches, Plain' Bearings, Anti-Friction Bearings, Steel Shafting, Shafting Couplings, Shafting Hangers, MiCroid Bearing
Metals, Porous Bronze Bushes, Gears, Pulleys, Wall Brackets, Variable-Speed Drives, Ludowici Pivot Drives, Fla-Seal Oil
Retainers, Composition Packings, Lutex Industrial Plastics, Industrial Gloves, Rubber Hose, Lemcol Trucks, Wheels, Castors,
etc., Perry Chain Drives.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Alister Gordon
. , p M Tenyson. —4873.
b3 Tn buv copy of The Last of the
JpWers by Frank Clune.-4870.
Tn buv copy of The Snakes of
Tirana h y fR. Kinghorn.-4871.
Will exchange magazines for odd-
ments of wool, other materials or
magazines.—4B72.
To buy copy of What Butterfly Is
That?. —4869. .
I To buy Bohn’s Pindar, G. A.
Hentv’s books and Don Delaney’s
For Turon Gold.- 4874.
Words of verse “On the Range”
by Barcroft Boake, beginning:
0a Nungar the mists of the morning hung
The 1 beetle-browed hills brooded silent
and black, , , ,
Not yet warmed to life by the sun’s lov-
in# glow
As through the tall tussocks rode young
Charlie Mac. 4815
Information Sought.
Who was Clarence Seward Harrow ?
American criminal-lawyer, born
1857 died 1938, humanitarian, and
author of Crime: Its Cause and
Treatment and The Story of My Life,
etc Among his famous cases were
his winning of an acquittal for Eugene
V Debs in the American Railway
Union strike (1894); another for “Big
Bill” Haywood and two other Western
Federation of Miners officials; his
plea for mitigating circumstances of
insanity for Loeb and Leopold
(1924) his victory over William
Jennings Bryan in the Scopes case
(1925) though he lost the jury ver-
dict in that Tennessee controversy;
and the negroes in the Scottsboro
case (1932).
* * * *
When rusty iron or steel is painted,
will the rusting process continue or
is it arrested?
Painting over a rusted surface is
quite unsatisfactory, as enough mois-
ture may be trapped to cause suffi-
cient further rust-formation to break
the paint-film. From this point, or
from any point of weakness in the
paint-film, the spread of further
rusting is rapid, and the whole sur-
face will quickly deteriorate. It is
usual, for this reason, to remove all
rust, before painting, with a steel
brush. You have not stated the
reason for your inquiry, and if you
have a particular painting job in mind
it is suggested that you forward
particulars to the superintendent,
Defence Research Laboratories, Mari-
byrnong, Victoria, who will provide
details of an appropriate cleaning and
painting schedule.
* * * *
From whom did Willie Pep win
the world featherweight champion-
ship, and how old is he? Also, who
did Ike Williams beat for the world
lightweight title?
Willie Pep won world featherweight
championship from Chalky Wright in
New York City on November 20,
1942. Pep (real name William
Papaleo) was born at Middletown,
Conn. (U.S.A.), on November 20,
1922. Ike Williams beat Juan Zurita
for U.S.A. National Boxing Associa-
tion portion of title on April 18,
1945, and gained universal recogni-
tion as champion by stopping Bob
Montgomery on August 4, 1947.
* * * #
(1) What type of whale frequents
North Queensland waters? (2) Time
of migration ? (3) Are they commer-
cially valuable? (4) What are their
average dimensions in feet? (5) What
average weight? (6) What is average
percentage of oil? (7) What price is
the oil today? (8) Is it necessary to
have a licence to catch them ? (9)
To whom would application be made?
(10) Where to obtain literature on
whaling ?
(1) Humpback. (2) During winter
months, June to October. (3) Yes.
(4) 40-45 ft. (5) 40 tons. (6) 20 p.c.
(7) First grade, £lOO sterling. (8) Yes.
(9) To Director of Fisheries, Fisheries
Division, Department of Commerce
and Agriculture, Box No. 2595,
G.P.0., Sydney. (10) Popular litera-
ture is available in leading book-
shops. Would suggest Norman and
Frazer’s Giant Fishes, Whales and
Dolphins (price, 235. 6d.); Beddard’s
Book of Whales (price, 7s. 6d.); Dr.
Dakin’s Whalemen Adventurers, pub-
lished by Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
now out of print, but a copy may
perhaps be picked up second-hand.
Very little technical literature is avail-
able, but write to Director of
Fisheries.
* * * ♦
What were broadside ballads?
Popular songs and poems, written
in doggerel, which were printed on a
single sheet of paper, decorated with
woodcuts, with the name of the tune
to which the ballads in question were
to be sung, and sold for a penny
or two on the street-corners of Eng-
land in the 16th and early 17th cen-
turies. Their subject-matter was
taken from political events, battles or
wars, murders, strange happenings,
executions, freakish birds, domestic
quarrels and the like, and also
included moral exhortations and
religious propaganda during the
Protestant-Catholic controversies.
**' * *
What is meant by “classical” in
literature and art?
It is a term used to express, with
reference to a single work as well as
to an entire age, dominance of form
°ver content, technical precision qvei
emotional expressiveness, clarity, re-
straint and rationality over wildness,
bombast and imaginative excess.
* * * *
What is existentialism ?
A somewhat unsystematic system
of philosophy in vogue after World
War II in France, and developed by
Jean Paul Sartre on the basis of the
teachings of the German philosopher,
Heidegger, who in turn owes a great
deal to the Dane, Soren Kierkegaard.
The basic tenet of existentialism seems
to be that “we and things in general
exist, and that is all that there is to
this absurd business called life.” Since
Sartre is a novelist and playwright
as well, existentialism came to play
an important part in French letters
after World War 11. It proved an
ideal vehicle for the basic concept of
“Absurde” of the new lost genera-
tion.
$ * * «
How did the word Frankenstein,
meaning a soulless monster, originate ?
In Frankenstein, Mrs. Shelley’s
novel of that name published in 1818,
a young student makes a soulless
monster out of corpses from church-
yards and dissecting-rooms, and
imbues it with life by galvanism. The
tale shovys how the creature longs for
sympathy, but is shunned by every-
one. It is only animal life, a parody
on the creature man, bent on evil,
and later the instrument of dreadful
retribution to the student who usurped
the prerogative of the Creator, Mrs.
Shelley gave no name to the monster,
and therefore he is not infrequently
called “Frankenstein,” actually the
name of the student, when alluded
to. This, of course, is an error.
* * * *
Particulars of poetry prizes offered
by the Arts Council of Great Britain
in connection with the Festival of
Britain, 1951, and open to any citizen
of the British Commonwealth ?
Prizes: £5OO sterling for a' single
poem in English and not less than
300 lines; and prizes totalling £6OO
sterling, divisible by the judges among
not mote than 12 poets for a collec-
tion of between six and 12 short
poems in English, no single poem to
exceed 50 lines in length. There is
no limitation of subject. Work sub-
mitted should not have previously
been published. Closing date, Decem-
ber 31, 1950. Poems to be sent to
Arts Council of Great Britain, 4
St. James’s-square, London, S.W.I.
Poets should keep copies of their
poems.
Brief Answers.
R. 8.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural
Department, Sydney, for Diseases of
Animals Leaflet, No. 56; “Leg
Mange or Itchy Heel of Horses”
H.McC.: At the 1947 census there
were in the Northern Territory: Full-
bloods —European, 9116; Afghan, 6;
Chinese, 250; Cingalese, 5; Fijian,
23; Filipino, 47; Indian, 7; Japanese,
21; Malay, 20; others, 9. Half-
caste —Australian aboriginal, 1247;
Chinese, 68; Filipino, 27; others, 22.
M.C.; Try W. C. Penfold and
Co., 88 Pitt-street, Sydney E.M.8.:
You do not say the kind of material
from which the coat is made. If
oilskin, wipe down with a cloth wrung
out of hot soapy water, wipe dry
with another cloth, sprinkle thinly
with talcum powder, shake, and hang
up in a dry place. Dust before using.
If plastic, consult suppliers or makers;
otherwise, wipe it dry and hang on
a hanger in a dry, airy place
A.T.: In N.S.W. the C.T.A. Card
Rule Book is the accepted authority
among commercial travellers
W.H.F.: Copies of The Garden Path
by M. H. Ellis are obtainable from
the Liberal Party of Australia, 30
Ash-street, Sydney; price, 6s
D.E.W.: Women’s Pioneer Society
(Australasia), 61 Market-street, Syd-
ney 5.H.8.: Not eligible to receive
age pension. Suggest you write to
the Deputy-Commissioner for Repat-
riation, Grace Buildings, York-street,
Sydney. A service pension old age
is available to ex-servicemen who
have attained the age of 60 years
G. Sawdust is quite unsuitable.
Use air-slacked lime for breaking up
heavy clayey soil to make it friable.
It is one of the necessary plant-food
constituents. Spread liberally, 4oz.
to square yard, afterwards working
in the lime all through the soil by
hoeing, raking and cultivating. In
two or three weeks add farmyard
manure and proceed with planting.
W.B.S.: £2 15s. per week for a
single man, a widower or a married
man living apart from his wife....
H. (1) No. (2) Elizabeth Taylor.
S.S.: Spelling and meaning of
Wirringgulla are correct M.D.:
Sheridan by Lewis Gibbs,* reviewed
“The Red Page,” The Bulletin,
November 5, 1947 W.C.: (1)
U.S.S.R. stands for Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics. (2) Germany
invaded Russia on June 22, 1941
A.J.W.: The Queensland Authors and
Artists’ Association offers a prize of
£7 7s. in a competition for a short
story not exceeding 5000 words and
not previously published. Closing
date, September 30, 1950. A fee of
6d. must be submitted with each
entry. Entries to show pen-name
only, with author’s name attached in
a sealed envelope. Address to:
“Short Story Competition,” care Miss
M. H, Connah, 15 Howie-street,
Eagle Junction, N. 3, Brisbane....
W.J.F.: Write Superintendent, Chief
Secretary’s Department, Sydney, for
pamphlet “Some Notes on the
Smoking of Fish” L.M.H.: Ex-
perts handling this material cannot
suggest any remedy; abrading pow-
ders, etc., will only make it worse.
You might try an oil-rubbing. It is
usual to replace it when it becomes
opaque, but its cost is against fre-
quent renewals C.K.: As you wish
to preserve the appearance of the
bricks, it would be necessary to use
a clear paving paint, several of which
are available commercially and should
be readily obtainable at local paint-
stores. These will wear as the foot-
path is used, and repainting will be
required from time to time.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be
addressed to the Editor.
R.H.G.: Your old timberman is
lamenting the past in a wicker basket.
P.L.T.: That’s one rainbow that
got away... .L.T.: Probably you’d
have enjoyed yourself more if you
had joined the five-to-six rush
S.P.: No tree-limbs in The Bulletin
for your butcher-bird M.P.M.:
Can sympathise with your feelings
without admiring your verse
G.E.T.: “My arithmetic is really a
sin.” So is your metre... .R.L.W.:
A bright theme poorly handled
1.K.: Not for us T.F.A.: To - a
drenched Sydneysider your plea for
winter rain is almost an invitation to
assault and battery D.N.: Merely
pretty album-verse J.R.: Your river
is flowing backwards to its source,
L.K.B.: Neat idea unevenly ex-
pressed V.A.P.: “Submitted for
your approval, or otherwise.” Afraid
it is otherwise... .J.M.: We’ve been
flooded with flood poems, all nearly as
bad as yours... .G.McG.: You strive
hard, but miss.., .S.G.: Finished
right back among the “no-hopers”
Bellerive: We can spare eight
lines for Bob:
....W.D.: It wobbles, jumps and
screeches like a Sydney tram....
R.R.: It’s a poor sunset that doesn’t
produce a thousand poems, most of
them addressed to us J.T.J.:
To quote four of your
“Phoney, boloney, bunk and punk.”
M.S.: The trials of a pig-farmer’s
wife are truly terrible J.A.M.:
Sound advice to a newchum, but
tenth-rate poetry E.M.: Some dis-
tance below f.a.q. nature verse....
J.W.8.: It might pass as a limerick
for a school magazine S.H.H.:
We can spare four lines: —
Ripple and bounce! Ripple and bounce 1
Does he Weigh a pound or an ounce?
Flippity, flap ! He’s high and dry 1
Fishol Fisho! I’ve a fish to fry.
J.R.P.: No tickets for “A Trip
to Mars” P.H.M.: Can’t share
your keenness A.D.8.R.: For
heaven’s sake don’t try to rewrite
O. Henry in verse J.H.: Your
reply to that O.F.M. contribution
would have gone better in prose....
H.D.: Three came in and three went
back J.P.M.; Not this visit....
8.R.: A sparrow featherweight
8.A.: Not up to standard.. . .J.C.:
Original theme with some feeling, but
below the mark M.M.: If it was
a candidate for election it would lose
its deposit T.S.A.; Try them else-
where R.H.F.: One of the trials
of election-time is the quantity of
political verse we have to suffer
J.L.M.: “Incoming Tide” brings no
rewards for you.
MY OLD TABBY CAT.
On winter nights upon
The ruddy fire hob
He’d coil up and purr.
Old tabby cat Bob.
He’d drowsily blink by
The warm fire glow,
Pet of an old home,
Long years ago.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4½d. per line; all others 2½d. per line.
Taxation
Most people seem to regard taxation
as a frightful burden instead of looking
at it as the source of the fund from
which they draw many of the good things
of life. Provision must be made for
maintenance of hospitals, pensions are a
social obligation for those in real need,
the three Services must be kept up to a
reasonable degree of strength, and much
administrative work is necessary in
running a country. These and other ser-
vices, in which all share to some extent,
can only be maintained by taxation, and
a central authority is provided to extract
contributions from each according to his
means.
If each person were obliged to con-
tribute equally there would be cause for
complaint, but it’s fair enough that those
with large incomes should pay the most
in income tax and that those whose stake
of land is the greatest should pay the
most in land tax. For those with in-
comes in the lower or middle groups, and
with dependants to support, or with heavy
medical costs, the contribution is not high
in proportion to the benefits available.
There are occasions when the incidence
of taxation falls harshly, especially under
the present system, of provisional assess-
ment, but that does not upset the essen-
tial fairness of the system as a whole.
It is the tax-dodgers who are the enemy,
not taxation itself. Not only do they
evade paying their just share to the
common pool, but they cause extra ex-
pense by necessitating a team of skilled
investigators to track them down. If
business is good, and profits are high,
why not be grateful and cheerfully con-
tribute through taxation to those not so
fortunate? That’s the moral aspect, and
the law enforces it wherever possible. —
R. J. (W.A.).
Patriotism
“T.A.” (B. 14/6/’5O) wonders why
patriotism is on the wane in great centres
of population. My theory:
Seaports always tend to be cosmo-
politan, particularly in a new and rapidly-
growing country where they develop into
huge cities through the influx of immi-
grants from many tribes and nations.
Their citizens are more or less strangers
in a strange land who fail to shed their
old loyalties or adopt the sentiments and
responsibilities of their new environment.
They do not think nationally or imperially
but concentrate on their individual needs
and ambitions. Their leaders are often
men of alien blood and allegiance.
That condition will inevitably be aggra-
vated by the flood of foreigners now pour-
ing into our already polyglot labor
market. National ideals and traditions
are of slow growth. Patriotism cannot be
imported or mass-produced. Many of
our new migrants are worthy individuals,
but for a long time they will be too busy
finding a foothold on our soil for them-
selves and their dependants to study our
national or international problems. In
the meantime they will sell their man-
power to the highest bidder, leaving it to
their descendants to recognise this as their
native land. —J. W. (S.A.).
Defence Training
The Korean business, along with the
Chief of the Imperial General Staff’s visit
to Australia, draws attention once more
to the need for compulsory military train-
ing in Australia. That it should have
been introduced years ago goes without
saying. The present Federal Govern-
ment has, of course, announced its in-
tention to conscript trainees in certain
age-groups, but nothing concrete has yet
been done.
Another war could come tomorrow
•with unannounced sticks of bombs on
our cities and submarine attacks on ship-
ping. Meanwhile the “Labor” Senate
has robbed the Federal Government of
power to dc'l with potential fifth-
columnists for at least some months. If
war does come it will be for history to
assess the loss this delay will have cost
Australia.
In other spheres, too, people who
should know better are acting in opposi-
tion to the establishment of an army of
trained men. In Sydney lately the Com-
missioner for Railways announced that
employees entering camp for military
training will have their pay stopped. The
effect that will have on the voluntary re-
cruiting of railway workers needs no
emphasis ; nor could private employers
be blamed for refusing to make-up their
employees’ wages when a State under-
taking refused to do so.
There is little chance of Australia being
prepared for war while the efforts of the
Federal Government and the military
authorities are being hamstrung from
outside and inside Parliament.
No doubt if war came the present Gov-
ernment would immediately seek to in-
troduce conscription ; but the events of
modem war move swiftly, and a country
without adequate defences is at the mercy
of the attackers’ aircraft, guided-missiles
and troops. On the other hand it takes
at least six months to train soldiers from
scratch in the use of modern weapons,
even longer for air-crews.
With cities exposed to attack along a
farflung coastline, with heavy industries
confined invitingly to just a few vulner-
able areas; and with internal lines of
communication easy-marks for enemy
bombers, Australia is not in a favorable
defensive position even with trained
forces in readiness to meet attack. With-
out those forces, and with Communists
still at large to carry out Moscow policy,
the position is far from bright.
Training raw soldiers and airmen to
MRS WARBLES
MMIMONML
BUREAU
iooes
JERmS MODERATE
“What I really had in mind Was something a little smaller."
meet an advancing force of trained men
is almost impossible, as history has shown
on many occasions. The sooner the
Federal Government meets and takes
appropriate steps to put Australia on a
proper military footing, *the better. —
Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
.22 Ammunition
There certainly must be a poor dis-
tribution system of small-arms ammuni-
tion in Australia (B. 28 /6 / ’5O). On a
dairyfarm 1 visited parrots were ruining
acres of milo ; when .22 ammo \sas pro-
curable it was not unusual to bag 50 or
60 birds in the late afternoon.
Most of the time, however, the ammo
was unprocurable. Yet on returning to
the city, I see lads with ample supplies
just to waste on tree-stumps and empty
tins for target practice.— Mike (Q.).
Jet Cars?
“K.Mc.” (B. 10/5/’5O) is in the realms
of wildest fancy when he talks about
turbo-jets and jet propulsion as applied
to surface vehicles. Jet-propulsion has
not been successfully harnessed for car-
engines ; all that has happened is that an
English firm has fitted a motor-car with
a small gas turbine. The ability to do
that has never been questioned, but
whether or not it is worth doing is still
open to discussion.
A large gas turbine which has just
gone into service on British railways
boasts an overall thermal efficiency of
16 per cent, on 2500 horsepower. It’s a
complicated job aimed at fuel economy,
so it’s unlikely a small 100-h.p. unit will
go anywhere near that result. Give it
a maximum of 12 per cent, and it has to
be compared with 20 per cent, for a
good petrol engine, 30 per cent, plus for
a diesel. Even if it can be developed
to the stage where it can operate on diesel
fuel —and all small units run on highly-
refined kerosene —it will still bum more
than twice as much fuel as the relatively
robust diesel, which, while not available
for cars, is most certainly available for
commercial vehicles.
Talk about “no gearbox and almost
no bearings” is also fanciful. The small
gas turbine is a relatively fixed speed
machine which must be turning at several
thousand r.p.m. before it delivers any
power at all. It can be started up against
the load of an aeroplane propeller but
not against that of a stationary vehicle.
It most certainly requires some form of
•torque converter, and whether that takes
the form of a conventional gearbox or
a system of hydraulic clutches is im-
material. It’s still a gearbox.
“K.Mc.” feels that this is the power
for road-trains; the productive capacity
of our hinterland, he feels, being insuffi-
cient to support railways. That’s fair
enough, and possibly true; but, apart
from the shocking waste of fuel, which,
even if it is available by the million gallon
in the islands north of Darwin, still has to
be paid for in foreign exchange, I could
build and run a railway using nothing but
Australian coal at far less than the over-
all cost of the proposed road-trains, —
Transporticus (Singapore),
Machine-mining
The introduction of the Joy Sullivan
continuous miner to Australia should
show just where the coalmining unions
stand. It is reported that the Miners’
Federation is alarmed and is preparing
to fight the introduction of the machine
tooth and nail. If that is true it represents
plain hypocrisy.
Many stoppages in the mines have been
defended on the grounds that the miner
is engaged in a dirty, hazardous and un-
pleasant occupation, and that he goes on
strike simply to avoid going down the pits.
It is also claimed by many miners that
coal production has fallen because young
men won’t look at the job.
If those excuses have any validity at
all one would think that the miner would
be the first to welcome any machine, to
lighten his toil and that he would be
pleased to see the means of reducing
the number of men required, thus en-
abling others to leave their unpleasant
occupation for one of the many open to
them today.— Kayell (N.S.W.).
Aboriginal M.Ps.
Surely it is possible for aboriginal men
(B. 21 /6/’5O) who are considered qualified
for commissioned rank in the Army, or
who show full proof of their intelligence
in other directions, to qualify for a seat
in Parliament, where they could voice
the needs and outlook of their own
people. We have aborigines who sit in
church synods alongside white represen-
tatives ; and I have heard some who ex-
press themselves in much better English
than some Parliamentarians.
It is an anomaly, of course, that while
the progeny of an Asiatic born in Aus-
tralia may qualify as a “dinkum Aussie”
with privileges of franchise, etc., our own
aboriginal is not allowed a vote (except
under certain conditions recently promul-
gated), nor can he own land. Westralia
and Queensland have both done much
in recent years to give better status to
the aboriginal living under civilised con-
ditions ; but Commonwealth action gener-
ally still has a lot to catch up on.
The old idea about the aborigine
having “no intelligence” and “belonging
to the lowest race in creation” has long
since been exploded; given opportunity,
he can produce the goods. What is
needed now is better understanding of
the aboriginal on the part of the white
community ; and Commonwealth legisla-
tion, along with informed action on th*
part of Commonwealth citizens, to ensure
that he is given definite place in
general scheme of things.
There is another section of Australia
population that will be asking f or reni
sentation before long—the Islanders of
the north, between Queensland and New
Guinea, who, now numbering many thou
sands, have increased steadily over th"
last 30 or 40 years, have their own native
schoolteachers, ordained clergy, nurse
and so on, as well as native police and
councillors. They are all within Queens
land geographical boundaries, and at the
present are watching with interest what
is happening in Indonesia, not so far
away.— C. Coral (Tas.).
%
Cost of Living
The Bulletin and other papers are
full of complaints about the cost of
living and of rearing a family. Yet every
race-meeting, dogs and horses, is crowded
with bettors throwing their money about
like water, the pubs are doing wonder-
ful business, and picture-shows and other
amusement places are crowded even on
fine, sunny afternoons.
It is particularly depressing to see the
queues of children waiting to invade
picture-shows instead of deriving health
and enjoyment in the open air. And
notice the money they spend on rubbish
cordials, ice-creams and sweets. Notice’
also, the number watching others playing
football and other games instead of par-
ticipating.
How few can be bothered to grow their
own vegetables and keep their own fowls
to supply themselves with fresh eggs!
My mother reared six of us without
any child endowment, baby bonus, free
medicine or medical attention or Govern-
ment assistance. I kept and educated
myself since 10 years of age and. did a
man’s work at home. —E- A. B. (Tas.).
The P.M.G.’s Department
The P.M.G.’s Department has ex-
pressed concern because many of its
officers are holding two jobs. Apart from
violation of the union principle of “one
man, one job,” there’s some truth in the
contention that no man may properly or
conscientiously serve two masters. But
the unswerving “thou shall not” to Com-
monwealth public servants seems a trifle
high-handed when the scales of wages
and salaries paid by th.e P.M.G. in par-
ticular compare so unfavorably with
those paid for like or allied employment
outside.
Motor-mechanics, electricians, painters,
fitters and carpenters, for instance, earn
on the average about £2 per 40-hour
week more than departmental tradesmen,
and, in most cases, their wages are not
subject, as the latter’s are, to superannua-
tion and/or provident deductions.
Clerks, too, are much better paid outside,
while the humble letter-carrier works in
all weathers for very poor remuneration
considering the high importance the
P.M.G. places upon his duties and the
integrity demanded of him.
Some branches of the Commonwealth
public service may be overstaffed, but
that charge cannot be fairly levelled at
the P.M.G.’s Department; indeed, the
engineers’ and technical sections need
many more hands if the proposed ex-
pansion of telephone and telegraph
services is to make much progress
within the next 10 years.
If the Commonwealth is morally right
in demanding the exclusive services and
unwavering loyalty of its servants, then
it is only fair that they should be paid
salaries at least equal to those obtaining
in non-Governmental fields,,, — P. O. M. C.
(N.S.W.).
The P.M.G. advertises almost daily for
employees for all branches of the service,
and to every complaint from the public
replies that shortage of trained stall is
responsible. That’s not the whole story.
There are many expert retired officers
living on niggardly pensions who wouta
be only too eager to re-enter the servic
if the department offered sufficient in-
ducement and employed them in P°. s '
tions in which they could retain dign y
and self-respect.
Consider the case of an ex-postmas er
of an important suburban p.o. w ~
debarred from drawing the oi * S
pension because he was receiving a
per-week service pension. He app
for re-employment with the P-M.G-
-was re-engaged as a postal officer , s
lowest grade. He is clearing letter-boxes,
emptying telephone coin-boxes,
work that any messenger could do.
Two-thirds of the pension, for
he contributed for over 40 years, is
ducted while he is re-employed. A , *
the P.M.G. is paying him about SA to
six-day week and relegating him
laborer’s job. —G. P. Oh (N-S.W.).


or such words of wisdom. It is not the
forms but the observation and under-
standing that Underlie them which make
the play great, and any attempt to make
it live by giving the parts to a group of
• mainly self-conscious actors clad in cos-
tumes that look as if they came from a
bargain-counter is to put up fresh barriers
between an audience and the playwright.
It could be better if the play were well
read without emotion. Actors who strut
like cranes and tear their hair and neither
understand nor feel the emotions they are
expressing only surround the words with
another lot of associations.
All of which isn’t derogatory to Mr.
Maxon’s heroic effort. William Walsh,
in a long, white nightshirt, failed to con-
vey conviction as the mad Lear, but
Girlie Reddan’s Cordelia was appealing,
and Kevin Toland’s Kent was as rich in
eloquence and passion as Eric Maxon’s
Gloucester. The Fool of Rob Davison,
as Shakspeare’s fools usually are, was
overacted and his humor hollow, and
Murray Latimer’s Edgar was mincing.
Linda Lett and Beryl McKenzie, as
Goneril and Regan, committed their foul
deeds of filial ingratitude and lust with
no more emotion than if they were enter-
taining the local curate. Sidney Kaye as
the Bastard Edmund was elegantly
sardonic. —F. S.
"Fantastic Symphony."
Berlioz, the composer who, as a medi-
cal student, jumped out of a window be-
cause he couldn’t bear to witness an
operation, is credited with having made a
science of orchestration. In his “Fan-
tastic Symphony,” rarely played in Mel-
bourne but brought out by conductor
Charles Groves at the Town Hall, he did
more than that. He used his science to
describe an extraordinary situation.
A young musician has a mistress, and
the mistress won’t have him, and he sinks
into that black night of despair and dis-
couragement out of which some people
get inspiration and others only get
dyspepsia or a headache. He takes
poison, and the drag plunges him into a
heavy sleep out of which come dreams,
recollections of past delights and finally
the horrors, during which he murders his
beloved and is marched off to the scaf-
fold. In the brief moment between life
and eternity, no doubt when he is hang-
ing, he attends a witches’ sabbath and
partakes in their obscene rites.
That it was more or less a personal
spiritual experience the composer was
describing is indicated in the vehemence
and passion of his music, which, unfor-
tunately, wasn’t altogether reflected in
the playing. Possibly the lack was in the
visiting conductor, who worked hard, but
didn’t seem to be able to make his
orchestrions as mad as the music. He
was better in “With the Wild Geese,” of
Hamilton Harty. It was a poorer piece,
and, like the work of most conductor-
composers, sounded like echoes of other
people’s music.
William Warfield, the negro singer,
aired his baritone confidently enough in
two arias of Bach, which daily-paper
critics unanimously agreed were out of
their context in a programme which in-
cluded the “Eine Kleine Nachtmusik” of
Mozart. That is like saying that a pic-
ture of Velasquez is out of its context
in an exhibition containing works by
Titian and Rembrandt. If Bach, Berlioz
and Mozart were good composers their
works have good music in common, even
if their subject-matter is entirely different.
TALKIES
"Monsieur Vincent."
This beautiful and devout French
film, which was reviewed and commended
on this page in B. 19/4/’5O, is now at
Sydney Savoy, and a second inspection
0 f it confirms the original verdict—that
it is a very finely-acted and -produced
version of the life of St, Vincent de
Paul, the man who devoted himself to
the poverty-stricken, the infirm, the sick
an d other unfortunates, and whose de-
votion was such an obsession with him
that it spread and infected others to aid
and follow him.
If, despite Pierre Fresnay’s sincere and
sensitive portrayal, and despite the simple
honesty of the production, one still feels
at times a vague discomfort it is probably
due to the fact that such sinners as film
commentators generally feel uncomfort-
able in the presence of even filmed saints.
Or, possibly, it may be attributed to the
fact that the film is made with such
gentle piety that it lacks the contrast of
villainy. True, the poverty, the ignorance
and the unconcern that Vincent strove
to conquer are all represented as only the
French film-producers can present them.
But, in the cause of dramatic contrast,
these might have been personified more
strongly in one or other of the characters
—to throw a little black against the white
and soft greys as it were.
Still, that is a small complaint against
a film which not only presents-its main
character with such searching integrity,
but which also submits its cause with
artistry and sincerity that one cannot
leave it without feeling vaguely troubled
about the ills of this day and age.
1
"The Raven."
It was not until after seeing “Le Cor-
beau” that one learned that Denise, the
bedridden siren, was none other than the
artless and enchanting girl from “The
Baker’s Wife” —made-up, lush, lolling
about in nightdresses for the seduction
of Dr. Germain (Pierre Fresnay), she is
quite as irresistible in this film ; angry,
defiant, contemptuous, pleading, broken-
down, a poor weak woman, or comfort-
ing with an all-embracing maternal
solicitude, she is just about what the
doctor ordered.
Fresnay’s part, as the doctor, makes
him less notable than Dr. Vorzet (Pierre
Larquey) or the mother of Number 13
(Sylvie)—it is a play of character-parts,
and not to know French must mean to
miss an immense amount of nuances,
notably in the acting of Dr. Vorzet.
But even more than for character-
parts, it is notable for its effects ; the
swinging light-globe which illustrates Dr.
Vorzet’s point that men are made of
light and dark, and next is shown
stationary, indicating passage of time;
or the long street down which the
horrible agent of justice walks out of the
film.
The story, by the way, is of an anony-
mous letter-writer, “Le Corbeau,” who
directs his attacks at the new doctor, Dr.
Germain, insinuating that he is having an
affair with Dr. Vorzet’s wife, Laura. The
letters, increasing their audience and their
scope, put a whole French village into
turmoil. Patient Number 13 cuts his
throat in hospital; it is shown that he
had been denied morphia; the anony-
mous letters accuse a nurse, who is
mobbed and arrested. A letter drops
from a wreath sent to the dead patient’s
funeral; another drops from the top of
the church where the preacher is denounc-
ing the anonymous writer.
The scene of the preacher has real
beauty, the funeral scene manages to
combine wit with the majesty of death
and the power of French oratory—but
nothing in the film is more powerful or
beautiful than Denise.
"Twelve O'Clock High."
Some films, unlike old soldiers, don’t
even fade away; they keep coming back
stronger than ever. Ever since the initial
success of “The Dawn Patrol” the same
ingredients—the conflict in the minds of
commanding officers between their sense
of duty and their personal feelings for
the men they have to send out to risk
their lives —have been turning up in
slightly different mixtures and in varying
degrees of palatability. This latest varia-
tion, at Sydney Regent, is a very hand-
some production from 20th Century Fox,
well directed by Henry King and acted
by a string of competent players headed
by Gregory Peck, Gary Merrill and Dean
Jagger.
The film presents its case through the
story of an English-based American
bomber group with a bad record getting
worse in the matters of losses, morale and
performance of its duties. The trouble
is traced to the commanding officer
(Merrill), who has become too closely
associated with his men so that his feel-
ings about them are influencing and over-
riding his sense of responsibility for the
relentless bombing of Germany and the
relentless driving of aircrews and ground-
staff that that requires. He is removed
from command and General Gregory
Peck moves in like a martinet with the
theory that a much-needed shot of disci-
pline will pull the unit together, improve
its flying and cdmbat record and thus
give it some pride in itself. General Peck
gives a pretty good performance, begin-
ning with the guard at the gate and then
tearing a strip off practically everyone up
to his senior officers.
The General’s problem is twofold. In
the first place his theory has to take effect
before the men, strongly resenting his
methods, can apply in a body for trans-
fer to other units. Second, he finds him-
self running into the same mental conflict
as his predecessor —beginning to develop
normal human sympathy and admiration
for his crews, but continually “sweeping
his feelings under the carpet” while he
drives the men with even harder disci-
pline and with apparent lack of any
human emotion.
He achieves his object, but, like the
man before, cracks under the strain, and
therein, possibly, lies the film’s main
weakness. Men like the Genera! that
Mr. Peck represents not only don’t crack,
they don’t take on the character of a
martinet as they please ; that kind of man
is generally bom, not made —or if he is
made it happens so early that it doesn’t
matter. The film would have concluded
more satisfactorily had it left General
Peck, his task accomplished, moving on
to impose his personality on some other
unit that needed it.
Still, one can’t take melodrama too
seriously, and Mr. Peck’s performance
is, generally, a pretty sound one, and,
except where the director has led him
into one or two sentimental scenes, he
portrays his mental conflict very well.
The film can also be credited with the fact
that it not only recognises but emphasises
a point too often ignored or deprecated
—that the hardest-trained and hardest-
disciplined are commonly the finest fight-
ing units.
The most arresting passages in the film
were not made in Hollywood—they are
cuts from official films made during
actual combat by both German and
American aircraft, and, with planes flash-
ing and passing in the haze like slender,
deadly silhouettes, they convey very
graphically the incredible speed of air
combat and the impression of life and
death balancing madly on a split-second
in space.
"Ambush."
M.-G.-M.’s western, which galloped a
brief course at Sydney St. James before
going on the rounds, has a good deal of
wild desert scenery, some fierce and
scrubby Apache Indians, a troop of very
precise American cavalry, with a stern,
good-looking C. 0., scout Robert Taylor
and a lovely blonde with a sister in the
hands of the Indians. It also has a
drunken Irish soldier who beats his
beautiful wife and handsome young
lieutenant who doesn’t know what to do
about it.
The Indians sort out the problems very
nicely by (1) practically annihilating
themselves against the cavalry, (2) by
killing off the Irishman and leaving his
battered but still beautiful wife free to
console herself with the lieutenant, (3)
by also killing the stern C.O. and thus
saving the lovely blonde the difficulty of
choosing between him and Mr. Taylor.
Metro have accorded the piece a fairly
generous production in the matters of
setting (an Army post in the desert),
actors and direction, and it makes f.a.q.
entertainment if you like going on Indian
hunts and galloping home to claim the
fair lady—or if you like being pum-
melled, jabbed and deafened by small
boys who do.
"After Midnight."
In the interests of peace, post-war re-
construction, U.N.O. and other causes,
it is to be hoped that there are not too
many people who, like Alan Ladd in
this Paramount offering at Sydney Prince
Edward, feel that they still have cause
to carry op the war in Europe.
Mr, Ladd’s belligerence stems from
the fact that, during the war, he and a
fellow secret-agent in Italy were betrayed
to the Nazis. A long, long time after-
wards, in America, he stumbles on to a
clue which he thinks might lead to the
identity of the betrayer, so he hotfoots
it back to Italy and takes up the scent
like a hungry bloodhound. He passes
several corpses and sundry swarthy
mysterious individuals before he evens
the score and claims Wandra Hendrix for
himself.
The plot seems unnecessarily compli-
cated and is even less convincing than
such plots generally are. None of the
cast, which includes Francis Lederer and
Joseph Calleia, seems to have any great
enthusiasm for the business.
“THE BULLETIN”
CROSSWORD No. 77
(cryptic type.)
Across.
I—Former serpent to age with
Edward when out of patience. (11)
7-—Produce of an ear-bash getting
the sack in return. (3)
slips rapidly downhill.
(5)
10— Legislation of Alfred the Plump
characteristic of any hero in high
tragedy. (5, 4)
11— In one, I finished the chess-game,
although dead. (10)
'•‘—Produce an egg produced by
. Macaulay. (3)
's—Do behold the very tiny creature
~ of rock. (8)
irColor of disorderly tribes. (6)
W-Frnale. (6)
king with fiddling servants upset
you, Edward, and talked in an
, affected manner. (8)
(3)
Footballer to act or entrance.
27 4)
occurrcnce y° u dined upon?
28 — Boy, when it’s my turn to
bat . . . (5)
29 Confuse a celluloid cowboy 941
years ago. (3)
30 — Invitation to the funeral? (4, 2,5)
Down.
1 — dddeastddd? . (4, 6)
2 A large beginning to sicken a
lady’s maid. (7)
3 Fruit, by courtesy of an English
film-actress. (10)
4 Fact errs erroneously and bends
the light rays. (8)
5 Audrey of Hollywood is an
adder, and is about to take a
tumble. (6)
6 Do the fifties provide amusement
for a girl. (4)
7 It is chivalrous to infuriate the
six-footer. (7)
8 — Take up the attack in cricket
Vessel. (4)
13— Revealing the art of mislaying
gramophone records. (10)
14— Intercepting fugitives by taking
a short cut, he gets a wild-dog
with loud music. (7, 3)
17 —Ack-ack that is on the thorough-
fare is in the most scale-like
condition, (8)
19 —Double nine defeated by Clive.
(7)
21— Italian composer remarks what
the cannibal said when he had
eaten a lady of easy virtue. (7)
22 — He was rebuked by his ass degree
before the French morning. (6)
25 Rafter ray. (4)
26 — Auricular duck with a muscular
twitch. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 76.


TRAFFIC
SIGNALS
o
o«
o
oe
V
c-
3
O
c
fd
\
J
v>
RAOIOLA
RECEIVERS
HEAD
OFFICE
VS
v*
u
n
\\
n
BROADCASTING
S'
c
\
/
9N10H033U
D
J
AVIATION
EQUIPMENT
(ty
WAy
TELEPHONE MANUFACTURE
r.: i i Q.li 1.l li-
MARINE WIRELESS
o*4
RADIOTROR
VALVES
MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS
TEUTON
CABLES
?/
I
SMITHS CLOCKS
r
■>
Lift
f V.
o
AMPRO
PROJECTORS
II
'CRI
(?
t°2
n.
*•
f
d
>■
5v
In pioneering ship-to-shore communication, far
back in 1913, Amalgamated Wireless placed
Australia abreast of world progress in the science
of Wireless.
Today navigation in the air as on the sea
looks to A.W.A., the fountainhead of electronic
research, for the latest developments in radio
technique to ensure safety and comfort in travel.
Australia’s National Wireless Organisation
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
