

The Bulletin
> Bulletin, 99 Vol. 71—No. 3655
Wednesday, March 1, 1950
■
Price 6d,
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Pos* as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
AT the western end of Westminster
Bridge in the shadow of Big Ben
stands the finely grouped and vigorous
statue of Queen Boadicea in her war-
chariot. This statue, unlike others i!n
London, came through the war un-
scathed. It is the work of Thomas
Thomycroft, a famous sculptor of the
nineteenth century, and he regarded this
statue as his crowning achievement. The
words of the poet, William Cowper, are
engraved on the plinth—“ Regions Caesar
never knew thy posterity shall sway”:
fitting words for this great warrior queen
who defied the Roman invaders in the
time of Emperor Nero.
Boadicea was the wife of Prasutagus,
ruler under the Romans of the Iceni or
Britons who lived in the area now known
as East Anglia. Prasutagus died in A.D.
61 without a male heir, but in the hope
of obtaining the Romans’ goodwill for
his family, he left a will dividing his
estate between his two daughters and the
Emperor Nero. This, however, did not
prevent the Romans from savagely an-
nexing the whole of his kingdom. His
wife, Boadicea, was flogged, his daughters
outraged, and the leading men of the
Iceni were plundered or killed.
This action aroused the fierce anger
and hatred of Boadicea, who led a revolt
against the Romans. The Roman cities
at Colchester and St. Albans (Verul-
amium) were stormed and some seventy
thousand Roman soldiers were killed,
including the famous Ninth Legion, which
marched all the way from Lincoln, only
to be annihilated by the Britons under
Boadicea. Eventually the revolt was
quelled by the Governor-General, Paul-
inus, who hurriedly returned from
Rome. Boadicea took poison in order
to escape his vengeance, but her bravery
in resisting the Romans was not in vain,
for her action resulted in a more civilized
policy of government under Paulinus,
BOADICEA'S COURAGE IS FITTINGLY REMEMBERED IN A WARLIKE SETTING
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
house of seppelt


"storn Writing
wJ V ul M at HQ]*TF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 250
AGE
The Red Page
Across the Tasman,
For a New Zealand audience the
Year Book of the Arts in New Zealand,
No. 5 (H. H. Tombs, Ltd.) should need
no recommendation. So far as it goes
—it is chiefly concerned with painting,
but poetry is also included, and there are
surveys of architecture, ceramics and
Little Theatres—it is an embodiment of
the country’s cultural activities for the
year.
It is overgenerous in the black-and-
white reproductions of so many paint-
ings, good, indifferent and bad; but at
least New Zealanders can be sure of
learning from it exactly what their
artists have been doing. H. H. Tombs,
who replaces Mr, Howard Wadman as
editor, has maintained the admirable
tradition of allowing artists of all schools
to have their say. As before, there is an
inclination towards the new in art, both
in reproductions and letterpress, but there
is no attempt to obliterate the more con-
servative painters.
For overseas circulation the volume
has some unavoidable disadvantages, in
that so much of the material is only of
local interest. The rejection by the
trustees of the Christchurch gallery of a
painting by Frances Hodgkins, a New
Zealand artist who made a reputation in
London, cannot, for instance, be expected
to arouse the same impassioned interest
in other countries as it does among the
contributors to this book —even though
Frances Hodgkins’s name is not un-
known (she was, as it happens, repre-
sented in the Massey collection, recently
lent by Canada to the Australian gal-
leries) and though the controversy bears
upon the wider questions of “modern-
ism” and the rights and duties of
trustees.
Judging by the reproductions of the
disputed painting and others by the same
artist, particularly “Ebb Tide,” it would
seem, incidentally, that the Christchurch
trustees, who rejected the single work
without attempting to deny the artist’s
quality in general, were unlucky in hav-
ing been offered a very slight and playful
example.
Again, the activities of New Zealand
Little Theatres, since they do not pro-
duce New Zealand plays—which, ap-
parently, hardly exist—can only be of
very limited interest overseas. If
this or that group had made a good
or a bad job of The Corn Is
Green a handful of Little Theatre
enthusiasts in Australia may be in-
terested to hear about it; but it is more
important that overseas readers should
be informed that a verse play by Howard
Wadman —“the third full-length play
written and publicly produced in this
country” —was put on by the Thespians
in Wellington and that, dealing with a
murder in the Southern Alps and taking
its characters from the “middle-class in-
telligentsia” (it seems to have been in-
fluenced by The Family Reunion), it was
“sufficiently provocative to cause endless
argument.”
Both for . New Zealand and for over-
seas readers, the book could be enor-
mously improved by the inclusion of
more reproductions in color. It is really
impossible to be sure about the merits or
faults of a painting in black-and-white
reproduction. This is, of course, an ex-
pensive matter; Sut at least it would be
possible, and, surely, desirable, to make
the annual more fully representative of
the year’s creative activity by including
reviews of New Zealand books instead of
art publications from overseas ; by a sur-
vey of New Zealand writing such as H.
M. Green does annually in “Southerly”
for Australian literature; and by the in-
clusion of short stories by some of the
writers such as Roderick Finlayson, J.
H. Melville, A. P. Gaskell, Gloria Raw-
linson and Frank Sargeson, who have
done so much in recent years to win
respect for New Zealand letters abroad.
Certainly the inclusion of these writers
would do a great deal to strengthen the
specifically New Zealand quality of the
annual.
In New Zealand, as in Australia,
poetry and painting seem to be taking
diametrically opposite courses; poetry
towards nationalism, painting to inter-
nationalism. The poems by James K.
Baxter, Charles Brasch, Ruth Dallas,
Ruth Gilbert, Kendrick Smithyman,
Keith Sinclair and others, selected for
the Year Book by A. R. D. Fairburn, are
all to some extent influenced by the
younger English writers and all admirably
up to date in style and technique, yet —
Charles Brasch’s “Blueskin Bay,” for
example—essentially they spring from
the New Zealand soil; they could not
have been written in any other country:
Ngaio and broadleaf hold the green coast
in dominion,
The green hills bent to the water
That stirs, hardly stirs in the wide arms of
the bay,
Fingering the rocks lightly, for a season of
calm
Laid asleep in its iron bed
Under the circling air, the dome of light.
Most of the paintings, on the other
hand, under all sorts of recent European
influences, from Paul Klee to Stanley
Spencer, could have been painted any-
where from Paris to Patagonia and have
their roots only in international fashion.
Nationalism can be overdone in the arts,
and N.Z. painters cannot be confined to
representing the landscape or the
Maoris; yet it seems very odd to
have a New Zealand artist —to take an
extreme example—drawing a bison in
imitation of the palaeolithic cave-drawings
when there is the art of the Maori at
hand; and it is also somewhat discon-
certing to find New Zealand art in
general losing its identity before it has
had time to develop it. Gruner
left the country in his infancy, as, later
in life, did so many other New Zealand
artists — Wakelin, Townshend, Maud
Sherwood, Frances Hodgkins, James R.
Jackson, Robert Johnson, Low, Finey,
Unk White —and New Zealand really
needs to find a Gruner, a Streeton and a
Tom Roberts to express the spirit of its
soil before it stages a rebellion against
them.
Men of Men
In his new book The Happy Isle;
(Georgian House), Major R. Raven-Hai
has abandoned his habitual canoe for tb.
luggers and little steamers which ferric
him about in Torres Strait to Mi
Island, Darnley Island, Yorke Isian
Naghir Island and Mabuiag Island. B
permission, he went to these place
where white men are not allowed
stay; and he has made a pleasant bot
out of his sojourn. Mer is a kind
Paradise: —-
Eighty years ago the men of Mer wr
as naked as bom, seventy years ago the
were “a dying race,” “doomed to pens'
at the contact of civilisation.” Today Me
is a rich, contented, educated, increasm
community; and I mean “community,’’sell
governing under self-elected councillors
with schoolteachers and nurses and clergy &
their own race, and not a white man on w
island . . .
What looks like weed just off-shore
small fish, clustered so thickly that
spike thrown among them is bound to
impale two or three ; sharks swim
between the natives and the shore, an
natives affectionately prod them out o
their way with the blunt ends of tn eir
fishing-spears ; the men sing well, W
the women are “reedy banshees”; |u
men wear crocheted embroidery on tne
short pants under their lava-lavas, an
dance superbly and all night.
When the bishop arrived on a visit
from Thursday Island, an avenue 0
palm-fronds and bamboo was set up
from the shore to the hut which
as vestry beside the church; and
avenue was paved half the way with '. 1
woven coconut mats for which M
Island women are famous. As
episcopal procession passed over
mats, boys took them and raced wi
them to cover the still uncarpeted «
of the avenue; thus the bishop P r
ceeded on mats all the way to the vest ■
There is a strange little icing-sug
church at Darnley—“a perfect g e ®>
miniature, doll’s-size cathedral; it sec >
obvious that some island architect
built it from a picture-postcard of so
large European church, just scaling
down to the size he needed and cr0WI l ~
it with a spire perhaps twenty
high”: —
There was a ridiculous (I hope)
about that this church was to be pm
down and a new one built. When my ;
told me of it, he added in alarm, j
what is it? Your face has got ren •. n
was not surprised: I should not i> ave .
surprised had he told me that I was toa
ing at the mouth. t j c »
Some of these islands are “dynas
—the big name on Yorke nre
Mosby; the first came from Baulin ,
U.S., in the 1870’s. Naghir was toam
by a Samoan* one Mills, who first r
the island, then had it ceded to hun- . er
Mabuiag name is Hankin, after an 1
immigrant from Samoa, “and ou - 0
him the grandson of that Hanki
(Continued on inside back covet-)
MORE ABOUT BRENNAN.
Sydney is agog (though the visitor
might hardly notice it —so well does that
well-bred city mask her feelings) as
publication-day for Chris Brennan’s
works, in two volumes edited by
I. J. Quinn and A. R, Chisholm, comes
closer. How much closer would be hard
to say.
The fires of enthusiasm have had
energetic stokers. Randolph Hughes,
A. R. Chisholm and H. M. Green have
written books about him. There is a
long essay on his poetry in T. Inglis
Moore’s Six Australian Poets. His
friend, A. G. Stephens, mourned him in
the manner of Dr. Johnson, who would
let no one but himself censure Oliver
Goldsmith. Dora Wilcox and Miles
Franklin are among a host of occasional
commentators upon him.
And everywhere R. G. Howarth may
be seen, fanning the flames, recording
achievements, organising the workers:
here is the fourth 1949 issue of
“Southerly” to prove it; 60 pages of
literary magazine devoted entirely to
Brennan —some unpublished verse and
prose; photographs of Brennan at
various stages of his life; notes taken of
some of his lectures by T. Inglis Moore;
an essay on his poetry by
A. R. Chisholm; a comparison of the
symbolism of Brennan and Mallarmd by
Margaret Clarke; a reconciliatory view-
point of the viewpoints of various critics
with A. G. Stephens’s critical viewpoint
of Brennan by Frederick T. Macartney;
memories and tributes by Hugh McCrae,
J. Le Gay Brereton and Dowell O’Reilly ;
an essay on Brennan as Man and Poet
by James A. Meagher; and personalia
and various notes and, no doubt, many
unobtrusive touches of erudition, emend-
ation, and suasive editorial confabulation
by the editor of “Southerly,” Guy
Howarth.
Brennan is, in the words with which
Valdry opened his wonderful preface to
Baudelaire, “at the roof of glory”;
criticism and biography have elevated
him, analysed him ; kindly berated him,
firmly stated him; plotted his position in
relation to Australia, the world and the
universe, annotated his poetry, cut it up
into a bewildering variety of tap-dancing
feet in the Greek manner, reorganised it
into stresses carefully tamped out on five
fingers in the English manner, dis-
embowelled its philosophy, disentangled
its references . . .
All that remains for us to see is the
poetry itself. For what literary gent,
worthy of the name could read Brennan
in a library copy? And how few literary
gents could afford to pay Mr. James
Tyrrell £lO 10s. for a copy, if he could
find a copy, of the only existing edition
of the main body of Brennan’s work?
So that, until Angus and Robertson
are able to bring out, maybe sometime
this year, Mr. J. J. Quinn’s and Pro-
fessor A. R. Chisholm’s edition of
Brennan’s works (which will still cost
about £2 2s. for two volumes), the
literary gent, will have to make do with
this newest tribute in “Southerly” from
Brennan’s many admirers. Indeed, Pro-
fessor Chisholm’s essay, “Brennan’s
Poetry,” is a foretaste of the new edition,
being an extract from his part of the
biographical introduction to it.
One hesitates to say more about it.
One remembers a meeting of the English
Association in Sydney when Brennan
was the subject. A little timidly, first
one, then another, of the association’s
members ventured an opinion or a
reminiscence, or a theory on some aspect
of Brennan’s work ; and then the chair-
woman prevailed upon Mr. J. J. Quinn,
Brennan’s friend, literary executor and
editor-in-progress, to say a few words.
Which he did. Taking previous
speakers in their order, as might be ex-
pected from a methodical ex-librarian of
Parliament, Mr. Quinn gently but firmly
explained that the reference in a poem of
Brennan’s to unsuitable living conditions
was not applicable, as Mr. A had
supposed, to the former public library,
but to some other Government depart-
ment; that Mr. B- — was quite wrong
in thinking that Brennan.... ; and that
Miss XYZ, in imagining that Brennan
thought was perhaps unaware
After about seven minutes, everything
and everyone that had gone before had
been politely and efficiently disposed of.
They knew, and all who were there knew,
that they had been Quite Wrong. Mr.
Quinn then sat down.
“And now,” said the chairwoman, as
though it had been in the script of a play,
“is there anyone else who would like to
say a few words about Chris Brennan?”
Not we, dear lady! Not here! Not
now! Not until Mr. Quinn has fired his
broadside. The lover of belles lettres
might be unable to refrain from quoting
a line or two from Margaret Clarke’s
essay:—
success in L’Apris-midi ctun
Faune and Herodiade, as in Sainte, is
famous, and nothing could be more re-
mote from the florid, overstated verse of
Brennan, a verse dictated always and ever
by philosophic symbolism, than which I
think there is nothing more opposed to the
true nature of poetry.
Or:—
The Greeks were a people with so many
ideas that they had acquired that first prin-
ciple of the intellectual life: a scepticism of
ideas. Ideas raise many problems, one of
the chief of which is their value . . .
But we didn’t say it; Margaret Clarke
said it. We quote it, not in the belief
that it disposes of Brennan, or that Miss
Clarke believes that it disposes of
Brennan, but rather as a sign of the ex-
cellence of the writing in this magazine
of various tribute to an Australian poet;
writings so solid in fact, so rare and
honest in thought, so fine in feeling.
R. McC.
For New Australians.
Any Australian who puts together a
book of prose and verse explaining Aus-
tralians to Australians seems to be
assured of a ready market —presumably
because we are a great puzzle to
ourselves; as well we might be —and
This Land of Ours, edited for Angus and
Robertson by George Farwell and
Frank H. Johnston, which has pictures as
well as prose and verse, and is a large
handsome volume bound in a pale-blue
cloth, should do exceptionally well.
It is, in the first place, what is called
a “gift book”: which means something
you wouldn’t dream of reading yourself
but which, like Tennyson’s poems, you
think everybody else ought to read. Next,
it is a very good thing to send overseas,
to show people (in the colored photo-
graphs) what a beautiful country we live
in and (in the lone art reproduction, Mr.
Russell Drysdale’s “The Drover’s Wife”)
what a harsh place we live in. And
lastly, as a piece of information from us
Old Australians to all the New Aus-
tralians who are pouring in, telling them
with pardonable pride exactly what we
are made of, it should have a special
appeal at the present time.
Also, it happens to be worth reading.
Any book of its kind, if two standards
are applied, as they are here, is bound to
be a bit of a muddle. You can’t pick
poems or articles because they are full
of the Australian spirit and, at the same
time, invariably pick poems and articles
full of the highest literary quality. If
you want an anthology of impeccable
artistic taste you can’t mix colored photo- ■<
graphs with color-reproductions of paint-
ings. In fact, from any artistic stand-
point, all colored photographs should
never be heard of again.
Again, any book of its kind, unless it
is to take the place of the new Australian
Encyclopcedia, is certain to be inc*
Thus in This Land of Ours 7*
Bernard Heinze writes about mm?
Australia, Clive Turnbull about art e
Pownall about children’s books’,
lames Chanter about films, nobody J?
about literature, and the contributors!!
only a handful of all the praj?
writers who would have been avaiU? y
And the surveys that are includZ
themselves necessarily incomolete u
Turnbull, for example,
line from the live gum-trees of I
Heidelberg school to the dead gum-tr!
of Mr. Drysdale, is obliged
reference to such artists as UnC
Ramsay, Longstaff and Norman Li n Z’
S ° the New Australian Jn
probably get the quite erroneous notion
that all Australian artists paint the L!
tree —and that while this was all right
the early days it was all wrong ever after,
wards until Mr. Drysdale came along and
by painting dead gum-trees, became “our
most important practising artist”
But it is surprising, with the double
standard operating, how excellent on
literary as well as Australian grounds
are many of the contributions: the poems
by Kenneth Slessor and David Campbell
and Frank Dalby Davison’s masterly
long short-story, “The Road to Yester-
day”—a perfect selection for a book
designed to tell New Australians how to
become Old Australians, for that is
exactly what Mr. Davison is writing
about.
And, incomplete as it must be, This
Land of Ours does cover a great deal of
this enormous country; the cities, the
surf, the bush, fishing, sailing, wild life,
history, Our Girls, pearling and what
have you. The contributors include
Eleanor Dark, Elizabeth Riddell,
Ernestine Hill, Colin Simpson, Professor
R. M. Crawford, Elyne Mitchell, Henry
G. Lamond, Alan Marshall and Ion
Idriess.


truth"in
ADVERTISING” 1 '
GF
are
. . . because they’re as, feminine as Eve,
as elegant as Victorian decorum), and
more flattering by far than compliments!
Right— Two row “Richelieu’ Pearls, price, £7/15/-.
!
LV W -.I
m
m**
30-
<P
6 ,
;v
i V' '4
■;■ 1
ma
m
W.J
r f (
m
V
IBMiMM
V
".■ *%
J
U
9
mw
.
•J
>’ f •?
0* M
mams
ESS
ar
SSB
■ ; A IIBBi
i
Hi
Hi
ssi
m
■
- ■■>•;■■■;<.
■
t*r - iiiiiliiwl
{■;■■
Bn > ■
is
i
- li:. ■--. V. * > ' '
v' -•*.
9ct. silver lined stone set
- • i/: •' r
Pendant and Chain, 25/-
Lustrous, three-row “Richelieu” Pearls in an
elegant presentation Price, £lO/10-
Earrings to match can be had at 16/6 pair.
Gold is now high fashion, and
this 9ct. silver lined Curb Brace-
let makes style headlines! 32/-.
Pendant and Earring Set in neat
presentation case. 9ct. gold stone
»
set. Coloured stones. £5/16/-
'•. / V
Jk *
w
Ik ms
Ml
*' i
\o
GF
* In the loveliest of settings these sparkling
Diamond Rings from £2l/10/-
A. Coronet setting of beautiful 18ct. plat, set
single stone, set with shoulder stones. Price, £49
B. Special value! 18ct. plat, set single stone
with hand carved shoulder. Priced at £2l/10/-
C. 18ct. diamond plat, set with hand carved
shoulders in a lovely coronet setting. £2B/10/-
D. Diamond 18ct. plat, set single stone, hand
carved shoulders. American claw design. £36/10/-
Above rings available in
white or yellow gold.
G
9 CARAT GOLD
STUDS, 18/9 PR.
Front and back Collar
Studs will give lasting
service.
TIE HOLDER, 15/6
It’s 9 carat silver lined
and wonderful value
at this low price!
„ t t (/
STERLING SILVER
KEY CHAIN, 35/-
A smart masculine
accessory with
chrome fittings.
9 CARAT GOLD
DRESS STUDS, 32/.
Neat, elegant, low
priced!
9ct. GOLD SLEEVE
LINKS, £3/14/-
These would make
a handsome gift
for husband or beau!
9 CARAT GOLD
MEN’S SIGNET
RING, PRICE , 50 /-
They’re solid gold, with
nice space for engraving.
Makes an ideal gift.
CHROME CIGARETTE
CASE, 16/6
With space for engraving.
ANTHONY HORDERNS* JEWELLERY DEPT.—GROUND FLOOR, PITT ST. ’PHONE: M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE LITTLE ORK
By GEOFF BINGHAM
6<r— FF you go, you go,” said Mr.
k* Weidel.
That was obvious enough,
both to Claude and Mr. Weidel.
“Eff you don’t go, you don’t go,”
Mr. Weidel said, and this time he
shook his head, to and fro, backwards
and forwards. “She is vairy wet,” he said
mournfully. »
He looked at Claude, seated on his
dray and pondering. He looked at the
nuggety chestnut draught, the thick
competent wheels of the vehicle, and
lastly at the milk-cans mounted on the
dray behind Claude. Mr. Weidel loved
his milk-cans, as indeed he loved all
things Weidel. Mr.. Weidel’s love for his
possessions was like the grey torrent
which moved past him, powerful and un-
deniable, and his love for his milk-cans
was no less than, say, his love for his
cows or his wife.
And the milk ; that was why he wished
Clauds to know before he urged the
chestnut forward, that his, Ernie Weidel's,
cans were aboard.
“Hooh!” he said suddenly. “What if
she go, hey? What you do then, Claude?”
Claude was either not committing him-
self, or was his usual self, seemingly
thoughtful, but really only dull. “That
oak,” he said suddenly, turning to Mr.
Weidel, “That’s the old oak.”
“Ha!” said Mr. Weidel, easily able to
keep up with Claude’s thought-processes,
“So if she’s only up to there,” said
Claude triumphantly, staring at .the
flooded stream.
“But she ain’t,” said Mr. Weidel,
alarmed. “She ain’t only up to there.”
Claude looked at his neighbor with
astonishment, dignified astonishment too.
“If she’s up to there, she’s up to there,”
' he said ponderously, unremittingly.
“Eff she iss, she iss,” said Mr. Weidel,
lapsing in his enunciation because of his
despair. “And,” he added, “eff she issn’t,
she issn’t.”
“But she is,” said Claude, now a
trifle bewildered. “Safe she is at that
point.” He clung to this thought grimly,
apprehensive of Mr. Weidel’s violent
denials.
“She is not the oak,” said Mr. Weidel,
breathing heavily.
Claude shook his head. He did not
have to ponder the matter. He knew.
“Reckon she is,” he said, trying to
convince his neighbor. “Dad says she’s
all right if she’s only up to the little oak.”
“Ah,” said Mr. Weidel with sorrow and
apprehension. “She iss not the liddle oak
but the big oak.”
Ten years of living in the valley had
made Mr. Weidel much like his
neighbors, but there were minor
differences, such as his habit of housing
stock in the winter, and bedding them on
cut bracken, and then carting to his
cultivation the mess of bedding and
manure. He himself had almost forgotten
he was a foreigner. Now the differences
were beginning to break down, and all
because of Claude’s stupidity.
“Just a reffo,” said Claude to himself,
as though that explained all.
“Silly he iss,” said Mr. Weidel under
his breath.
“Giddup,” Claude told the chestnut.
“Eff you do” —Mr. Weidel warned, stiff
under his breath.
IT was not that Claude wanted to go
I across the river. Oh, no ; and not in
this weather, either, with the grey skies
threatening to break again and swell
further the already high river. Even if
it was only up to the little oak, yet its
current could be strong. And Claude
could not swim. Claude knew he could
not swim. On the other hand he was not
prepared to allow Ernie Weidel to drive
the chestnut across, for he knew, in a
vague sort of way, that it was wrong to
let a foreigner think he could do what
you couldn’t. Besides, they would laugh
at home, and never allow him to forget
the occasion.
“Giddup, Bonny,” he said, and Bonny
moved. But she didn’t seem to like the
situation. She turned her head sadly and
gazed upstream, turned it again, and
gazed wistfully downstream. She stood,
the water lapping her fore-hooves whilst
she waited a further command.
“Giddup, Bonny,” said Claude, almost
fearfully this time. Great moving sheets
of water always filled him with a nameless
terror, a feeling strange to one who feared
neither man nor farm-beast, but only
ridicule.
“Ah, you better come back,” said Mr.
Weidel gently.
That part of Mr. Weidel which loved
his cans, and that other part of him which
loved humanity—even such dull-witted
humanity as Claude —fought a great
battle. Not to have his milk sent was a
great sorrow to the Swiss. To lose it in
the river a terrible thing. Yet not even
Mr. Weidel thought his cans would go
down the river.
When Bonny heard that last fearful
“Giddup” she knew quite well that all was
over with her, and yet out of sheer habit
she stepped into the stream. The cold
water slipped up to her fetlocks, then
suddenly to her very belly. Bonny flayed
her legs wildly, and the cart moved into
midstream.
“Hey,” shouted Claude. “Whoa-back
there, Bonny.”
Mr. Weidel clasped his huge fists to-
gether, tensed his tremendous forearms
and raised them above his head. “Ho,
Claude,” he said, shocked.
Bonny knew nothing about Mr.
Weidel’s despair, or Claude’s terror, or
any command he might have given her.
She struck out for the farther bank,
plunging against the ceaseless roar of the
downflowing river. Claude felt suddenly
horrified, abruptly aware that life was
intensely alive, that it had lost its old
steady tempo, and was now beating up
“against him with fearful ferocity.
“Bonny!” he shouted. “Come back,
Bonny! ” and when Bonny would not take
notice he pulled frantically on the reins,
“Oh, no, Claude,” shouted Mr. Weidel.
He stood on the bank and danced. “Oh,
no, Claudey,” he cried. “Do not do that,
pleess!”
Claude, like Bonny, could hear no
voices, and by now could see no animal,
not even Mr. Weidel, and the cart beneath
him was moving convulsively, something
like an unbroken colt on trial. Then
Claude, still clinging desperately to the
reins, found himself being swept down-
stream.
MR. WEIDEL shrieked in despair. He
could see his cans tumbled into the
water, and the horse struggling in the
entrapping shafts, trying to free itself.
Mr. Weidel’s coat came off, his ol ( d and
shiny vest, his sweater which had been
green-and-white, his collarless shirt, his
bracered trousers, his undervest. His long
woolly underpants, too, and his farm
boots. Then in plunged Mr. Weidel.
In that tearing river Mr. Weidel was
not dismayed. His tremendous arms
fought back the rapid current, and his
body refused to be swept downstream like
panicky old Bonny and terrified Claude.
Not a word, not a gasp, but, with his
powerful arms cleaving the water, Mr.
Weidel edged across the stream to Claude,
who was beating the water, flailing in
terrified, manner with his arms, and
shrieking too, taking in lungfuls of river.
“Now,” said Mr. Weidel triumphantly.
He put a hand out to Claude, and Claude,
his eyes horrified, grasped it and clung.
“Not so high she iss, hey?” said Mr.
Weidel. “If you can stand, hey?”
But Claude was not standing. He was
clinging to Mr. Weidel, his breath coming
in gasps, his eyes staring wildly, his whole
being anxious to impart to his rescuer
the fright which was his own. Claude,
and the raging stream —the latter higher
than both had thought—were almost too
much for Mr. Weidel. “Hey, no! Hey,
no!” he kept telling Claude, and then
when the young man struggled, his mad-
dened activity almost drawing the farmer
under, Mr. Weidel swung his fist and
clouted Claude across the face. “And
that,” he added, hitting again.
Claude might not have noticed, or per-
haps it served to increase his own terror.
He continued clutching to Mr. Weidel,
perhaps trying to draw him under, trying
in fact to climb on top of the Swiss and
so escape the horror of that grey moving
water. Then whilst Bonny and the empty
cart were swept downstream, the rain
came beating across the water, darkening
the afternoon, blotting out the banks.
Mr. Weidel, at all times prepared to
speak rapidly and give advice, now kept
his words to himself. He struggled grimly
with his neighbor’s son. He forgot, even,
about his milk and the cans, and purpose-
fully set himself to overpower the frantic
youth. It was not that Mr. Weidel knew
much about lifesaving, either, but instinct
told him that Claude must be quietened.
Mr. Weidel raised a clenched fist and
brought it down upon Claude’s broad
head. Claude still continued to struggle,
and the more he struggled the more Mr.
Weidel thumped at the broad -thick skull.
THE rain had cleared before Mr.
Weidel, exhausted, succeeded in
reaching the bank from which he had
started. He might have collapsed into the
river, on the very edge of it, and have
dropped Claude had.. it not been for
Claude’s father, and his other neighbor,
Lennie Conlon. They both moved into
the water, grasped Claude and Mr, Weidel
and pulled them clear.
“Thought it’d, happen. Thought it’d
happen,” Lennie Conlon kept saying.
“Ah, yes,” agreed Mr. Weidel in an
exhausted voice.
“Can’t go in water up to there,” Lennie
said severely, shaking his bead.
“Good on you, Ernie,” Claude’s father
said. He was white as his son, breathing
heavily..
“Ah, don’t talk about it,” said Mr.
Weidel, still gasping. He began wiping
the water from his limbs. Lennie drew
off his coat. “Use this,” he said.
“Me?” said Mr. Weidel. “I am wet.
My clothes are also wet. I shall put them
on and go home.”
“Never should’ve tried it,” Lennie was
saying.
Claude was lying white and still, no
movement in his body and limbs.
“Perhaps the doctor, eh?” said Mr.
Weidel, putting on his undervest.
“You’re right,” said Claude’s father with
a frown. “But you’d better go, Ernie.
You’ll catch death of cold.”
Mr. Weidel peered down, pulled back
Claude’s eyelid and stared, “0.K.,” he
announced triumphantly. “But better be
made warm, eh?”
Lennie and Mr. Waddell stopped to
pick up the great weight which was
Claude. Mr. Weidel finished putting on
his sweater and coat, after which he fol-
lowed them, carrying his own boots.
Then a fearful thought came to him.
“The milk,” he said.
“Forget about it,” Lennie said. “We
shouldn’t’ve tried it.”
“But the cans,” said Mr. Weidel, over-
come with grief.
Claude’s father half-turned to look at
Mr. Weidel. “Now just don’t you go
worrying about those cans, Ernie,” he
said confidently.
“No, eh?” said Mr. Weidel, brightening
visibly.
“In there half an hour you were, I
reckon,” Lennie said. “Saw you, we
did, and whipped straight down.”
“Just don’t worry about those cans,”
said Mr. Waddell. He shook his head
and gasped a bit, for Claude was heavy.
“Saved my boy, you did,” he said. He
gave Mr. Weidel a reassuring look. Who
would worry about cans at a time like
this?
“I will help,” said Mr. Weidel, who
was now recovered. With Lennie and Mr.
Waddell he gasped all the way to the
farmhouse.
THE papers, of course, made quite a
thing of it, and it did serve to show
how high the river could rise in flood-
time. But not only the papers. The
wireless, too, and the entire valley savored
the morsel of news which concerned them
directly, Claude, listening, shook his head
m dull wonder. Mrs. Waddell clucked
and Mr. Waddell looked severely at his
son.
“Might ’a’ got drowned, Claude” he
said reprovingly. “Might easily V got
drowned.”
Mrs. Weidel looked at her husband
with new interest. “That wass wonderful
Ernie,” she breathed.
• But Ernie was unimpressed. “It wass
silly,” he insisted. “All those cans.” He
paused. And the milk,” he said sorrow-
fully. He remembered Mr. Waddell and
he brightened.
Early next morning he was down at the
Waddell farmhouse. “The cans,” he
shouted into the gloom. “Have you found
them. Mister Waddell?”
“Cans?” said Mr. Waddell as he
emerged from the dairy. “What cans?”
Then he remembered. “Ah, no, can’t
say we have. Got Bonny though, and she’s
all right, but the cart’ll want two new
shafts.”
Mr. Weidel followed his neighbor into
the dairy and the lamplight. “But the
cans?” she said fearfully.
“M’m,” said Mr. Waddell gloomily.
“We haven’t come across ’em yet.”
It was not until he was back at his own
dairy that the Swiss realised Mr. Waddell
had not been much interested in the
Weidel cans. “No, but that cannot be,”
he kept telling himself. “He will find
them, yess.”
BUT Mr. Waddell did not find them,
nor Mr. Weidel, although he walked
up and down the river banks. When the
torrent of water receded he waded down-
stream, inspecting every twist, every nook
and cranny, every turn of the river. He
felt under snags and in the shadow of
dark rocks, but no milk-cans were to be
found. He could see them in his mind’s
eye, turned and tossed by the water,
rolled everlastingly until they reached the
ocean itself.
Mr. Weidel, to cover his gloom, might
have gone into Brookvale and heard the
fine things that were being said about
him, by folk, and in the Brookvale
“Register,” but instead he mooned about
his farms, regretting his great loss, and
waiting for his neighbor to come, and,
perhaps, present him with some shiny
new cans. He was not to know that
people spoke about a medal, a citation, a
presentation even, though the latter was
even vaguer than the honors, and died a
natural death because it somehow became
associated with money and giving, and,
strangely enough, the fact that Mr.
Weidel was, or had been, a foreigner,
and was still a bit if it came to that.
But the idol of the day had only
thoughts for his cans. He missed them.
His can-racks seemed einpty, and on the
strength of it he decided to visit his re-
luctant neighbor.
He was well-received until it came
the matter of cans. Then Mr. Waddell
sighed and said it had been a great loss
for them all, the milk and the cans,
especially the cans. He evaded ms
neighbor’s eyes at this juncture, looked
up at the ceiling, and brought the subject
around, very adroitly, to Claude.
Mr. Weidel’s interest in Claude nao
waned, if, indeed, he had ever been much
interested in that youth. He harped on
the subject of cans. He even asked out-
rightly about replacements, but Mr.
Waddell seemed astounded, and even
horrified, and in a fit of rage the Swiss
bounced out of the Waddell kitchen a
hurried home. .
Next day he was back, and the ay
after until the Waddells became highly
indignant at his repeated demands,
does he think he is?” Mr. Waddell de
manded. . . Cll ,; cc
It was on Mrs. Waddell that the Swiss
concentrated.' Knowing something
mother’s love for her children,
reckoned his efforts might here bea
fruit, but Mrs. Waddell was a true
farmer’s wife. Losses were losses, com
how they may, and one should b p
pared to take them without demand
re TndSTSTWeidel indig-
nantly, ’and thus shifting the J* p £ 1
bility, “you let my Oaude
across. What did you do that for, h
“It wass not the fiddle oak, P 4 j
Mr. Weidel, weak with anger,
told him not the fiddle oak.
f'LAUDE seemed to have toS o ']™ | h ‘
C incident. , Vehemen
Swiss’s denunciation ofhis toy
Claude continued to Pick up
bor’s cans twice daily. He wo
patiently and listen to D ever
anger in the Swiss s vo. ■_ £ or j^v-
once did he thank the * V though he
ing saved him. It wer con tinual
accepted life as it )D deatb
toil, dances occasionally,
(Continued on page 22.}


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3655
Wednesday, March 1, 1950
G
“ANOTHER CHANCE, OLD BOY, AND YOU’D BE OFF THAT CHAIN.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack^Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
OFF TO A GOOD START.
Mr. W. J. McKell, performing what
must have been one of the most remark-
able duties in the career of a politician-
turned-King’s-representative who clung to
his Labor-party membership for some
time after the announcement of his selec-
tion as Governor-General, opened the
new Parliament of the Commonwealth at
Canberra on February 22.
The new Houses were inaugurated in
an atmosphere'which recalled the glories
and dignities of an older, day and which
promises well for the future. Parlia-
mentary institutions have acquired an
unfamiliar dilapidation during the reign
of the “Labor” Governments. The House
itself has become a byword for indis-
cipline and looseness of conduct, but the
election of a new Speaker who has a
sense of the fitness of things and a deter-
mination to impose decorum will soon
abolish many of the features of Parlia-
mentary life which long have disgusted
visitors to the national capital.
With the new atmosphere of dignity
and restrained ceremonial goes an obvious
earnest of the intention of Mr. Menzies
and his colleagues to initiate a period of
hard work. The programme which has
been laid down for the coming four-
months’-long session will certainly be
sufficient to put into working order
the muscles of the most important Parlia-
ment which has sat in the Commonwealth
for a generation. The Representatives is
a very impressive House—quite the best
which has been elected since 1922 —and
it has a galaxy of young members, some
of them already experienced, who
can be guaranteed to lift the debating-
power of the Government party to higher
levels than it has known since Bruce,
Hughes and their immediate post-war
followers were in their prime.
The only sad feature is that, as with
most of the Governments of recent
generations, its list of activities must give
priority to the needs of international
affairs and rearmament, according to a
plan which envisages acceptance by Aus-
tralia of its “full share in co-ordinated
British Empire schemes of defence, and
of closest co-operation with the United
States of America.” This seems to be
calculated to bring the relationships of
the Commonwealth with the United
Kingdom and with the United States into
true and normal perspective again, though
the distinctions in our connections with
the greater Anglo-Saxon Powers had not
been made clear in Mr. Spender’s pre-
vious pronouncements.
These distinctions, it is to be hoped,
will be further. emphasised in the state-
ments which Mr. Spender is shortly to
make to Parliament, and will con-
tinue to be properly drawn. At any
rate it is good to know that there is a
return to the conception of the British
Commonwealth as an imperial, though
not imperialistic, whole, with the United
States as our first ally, and that the Gov-
ernment is so well seized of the import-
ance of recementing our relationships and
policy with those with whom our interests
are integral that it is sending a senior
Minister abroad to carry out the tasks of
co-ordination. And the determination of
the Prime Minister to place the moulding
of foreign policy in the hands of a non--
party Foreign Affairs Committee repre-
sents a recognition of the fact that our
external relationships should be always
above the calls of party and of the right
and need of Parliament to keep vigilant
control of foreign policy, the framing of
which offers so many opportunities to
careerists of the type of Dr. Evatt.
The defence programme is all that
could be expected on specific lines at the
present moment. It accepts the responsi-
mty of immediately bringing the forces
1 . llle Commonwealth to the greatest
Pomt of strength and efficiency consistent
with the general situation and plans of
imperial defence and with the country’s
potential, retaining whatever useful de-
fence enterprises there are in existence
and throwing overboard the delusions of
the push-button war which Mr. Chifley
Found it comfortable to hold.
The developmental plans which go with
this policy are marked by the adoption of
primary objectives for economic expan-
sion as far as possible. They are con-
ceived, according to the speech, with due
realisation of the need to achieve “a well-
balanced pattern of decentralisation,” and
the “outlay of capital, both public and
private, on a scale much greater than in
the past.” The public outlay is to be
financed by a great loan scheme which is
in preparation. The Government will not
interfere with the Snowy River scheme,
though it is to be hoped that this will
be divested of some of the features which
made its background policy a camouflage
behind whsch it was intended by its
framers to encroach further on the rights
of Parliament and to develop the prin-
ciple of totalitarian control of the country
on the pretext of defence necessity.
The Government declares itself to be
particularly anxious for the immediate in-
crease of vital supplies, particularly of
coal, steel and building materials, com-
bined with stable employment, and it is
upon this phase of its policy that it will
be most sorely tested, providing the battle-
ground on which its contest with the Com-
munist union-leaders will be fought.
There is to be a programme of importa-
tion pending achievement of the necessary
volume of local production.
If a right viewpoint can be brought
home to- the Australian wage-earner,
and something of the spirit of the
new Parliament infused into him,
it is to be expected that he will
respond, more especially if he and
his family can be made to understand
that only by eliminating strikes and lock-
outs and by building up man-hour pro-
duction in the staple industries can the
cost of living be brought down, the
value of real wages substantially increased
and further concessions in taxation be
made to the wage- and salary-earner.
The prospect of his own gains through
a recession in the cost of living should be
sufficient inducement to secure the co-
operation of the worker-once he has been
separated from his Russian-agent leaders
by the drastic moves which are envisaged
against the Communist party and its fol-
lowers. And the removal of the shadow
of destruction from over the heads of
the trading-banks with alterations of
the Constitution to give continuous
security to free enterprise, along with the
vigorous plans laid down for immigration,
and particularly for British immigration,
should ensure a steady flow of overseas
investment capital into the country, which
in turn should make the realisation of
Mr. Menzies’s expressed ambition to
raise the population to 10,500,000 by 1960
a reasonable objective.
Its achievement, however, depends
entirely on its ability to liquidate the
class-war, which Mr. Chifley and his fol-
lowers seem still determined to prosecute
and encourage. It will take tact, patience
and moderation, combined with great
firmness, to achieve this goal and “the
friendly and co-operative enterprise of
management and labor” which the Gov-
ernor-General’s speech envisages. But it
can be achieved if Mr. Menzies (with
full Country-party support) can capture
the imagination of the nation and if he
has the backing of Parliament.
His difficulties are especially great since
the very magnitude of his victory at the
polls has given him a following which’s
young, enthusiastic and apt to believe
that it has the solution, and which is
numerous enough in the coalition parties
to outvote the Old Guard of which the
Ministry is almost exclusively composed.
Upon these new members a responsibility
rests to provide a driving-force which will
assure that the Governor-General’s speech
is not merely a collection of empty words,
and at the same time that moderate gov-
ernment, now it has been achieved, is not
defeated by an overdose of enthusiasm
or too-hasty action in matters which
require patience and tact.
A.C.T.U. Monkey Tricks.
If the Arbitration Court should call Mr.
Monk of the A.C.T.U. over the coals, he
will have asked for it. When this week’s
Bulletin went to press the inter-State
executive of that body under Mr. Monk’s
presidency was meeting in Melbourne to
consider action on a resolution drawn
up by itself, presented to the Trades Halls
for endorsement by “the industrial move-
ment,” and returned to headquarters with
the expected approval.
Not much time need b,e spent in assess-
ing the value of Mr. Monk’s indignation
that the hearing by the court should have
lasted nearly a year. That is mainly his
own side’s responsibility. The A.C.T.U.’s
first chosen advocate before the court
was the Communist McPhillips; what he
would have done in the way of marathon
pleading and recital of evidence was not
to be known, for he early got himself
involved in contempt of court, and was
relieved of his job when it became clear
that the Bench had had enough of him.
Then, last May, his successor, Mr. Evans
of the F.E.D.F.A., told the court on be-
half of the A.C.T.U, that he had expected
to take two or three months in presenting
the “first leg” of his case —claim for an
interim increase of £2 a week —and there-
after about 12 months over the “second
leg,” in “taking field surveys and pre-
senting the case” for a £lO-a-week per-
manent rate.
From this it looked very much as
though the A.C.T.U. did not expect the
£lO claim in one hit to go down with
either employers, Governments or the
court, but hoped that about half of it
as an interim award would not frighten
the Chifley Government from intervening
in support “as in the 40-hour-week case,”
especially as the £2 lift should suit nicely
for the Federal elections, then a few
months off.
That pipe-dream ended with the Arbi-
tration Bench ruling out the interim claim
as “undesirable, impracticable and against
the public interest.” Mr. Justice Foster
expressed to the A.C.T.U. advocate his
“astonishment and amazement” at the
unions’ “inadequate preparation.”
So much on the point of delay. But
more serious for Mr. Monk is his breach
of the A.C.T.U.’s assurance to the court
last June that it would “not condone any
attempt by an affiliated union to force by
direct action the payment of a £lO weekly
basic wage.” This was the form of
words —certainly leaving a good deal to
be desired I—offered 1 —offered in reply to the express
requirement by the court of a considered
undertaking by the A.C.T.U., after it
should have obtained formal assurances
from all registered unions. Judge Kelly
said the court wanted assurances:
That the A.C.T.U. stands by arbitration
and regards striking organisations as rebel-
lious. We want to know if the A.C.T.U.
can make rebellious organisations liable to
disciplinary action (and) that the organi-
sations are going to submit their issues
without any form of direct action designed
to influence decisions of this court.
And, he declared, the court’s decision to
proceed meanwhile with the basic-wage
case “will be without prejudice to any
action on our part if the matter is not
clarified and not satisfactory.”
What riled the court —rather naturally
—was that militants of the A.C.T.U. had
urged the calling of a series of strikes to
impress the court at opening of the hear-
ing and a mass march through Melbourne
to the court’s doors.
The A.C.T.U.’s assurances to the court
in June never looked like anything that
would attract underwriters, and that im-
pression seems now to be confirmed. As
soon as the Christmas holiday season
ended the A.C.T.U. began to incite, or
to yield to, agitations designed to force
the court’s hand. For February 13 it
asked for “massed meetings throughout
Australia” to receive (and of course to
endorse) an A.C.T.U. resolution demand-
ing two conflicting things—(l) “de-
cisive and immediate action” by the
Federal Government to check inflation,
and (2) “a speedy and satisfactory end
of the present basic-wage hearing.” At
the Sydney Domain meeting to consider
this resolution Mr. Monk himself was the
chief speaker ; accompanying him on the
platform were Communists Healy of the
watersiders’ executive and Lewis of the
teachers’, Mr. Monk said the workers
“were being penalised by delays” (the
A.C.T.U.’s own delays), and added;
We are told that we are not to strike.
Judge Dunphy was very emphatic that we
have no right to strike. The right to strike
is the only economic weapon the worker
can use to protect himself. We are in-
terested in showing the workers we have a
real live interest in the basic wage and are
determined to get some benefits.
Following these proceedings the Sydney
Trades Hall’s Mr. Kenny told the Press
that “a one-day stoppage or stoppages of
longer duration” were possible throughout
Australia “to back the unions’ claim.”
From this development the public may
draw any or all of these conclusions:
(1) That the A.C.T.U.’s assurances last
June were nothing more than “tactical
manoeuvres designed to meet a particular
situation,” as the Coal Board says of
pledges from the miners’ executives.
(2) That the “moderate” section of its
executive lost face badly with the result of
the Federal elections, and is now getting
ready to be swayed once more by the “Left-
wing section,” whose attitude towards the
court was well exhibited by McPhillips when
the hearing opened.
(3) That in view of general elections
shortly to be held in five States, and pos-
sibly all six, “Labor” is desperately
anxious to recover ground lost at the late
Federal elections, and its interest now is to
cook up for public consumption a represen-
tation of “antagonism” by arbitrators under
the change of Government at Canberra.
On any of these heads the behavior of
the A.C.T.U. is not only provocative of
the court; if is also shabby treatment of
the unions. It is plain obstruction of
efforts to increase that output of national
production which alone can maintain
value ip any wages at all, and a direct
incitement of the Communists to go ahead
with their sabotage of essential industries
and services.
And as an elections stunt it could be a
boomerang.
McGags and the Country.
The N.S.W. McGags, who are obviously
worried by their election prospects in
the country (they didn’t help themselves
by depriving the rural areas of four seats
and increasing Sydney and Newcastle by
eight), put up their Minister for No-
Building Materials, Mr. Dickson, to de-
clare that their Government “had done
more than any other to halt the popu-
lation-drift from country to city.”
Mr. Dickson coyly declined to claim
the drift had been stopped, but alleged
his crowd “is gradually and definitely
reducing it,” How gradually and definitely
will presently appear. Apparently asked
for some evidence to support the claim,
which was made after a city newspaper
had discovered that “country people were
angry at more centralisation and city
neglect of the country,” the gentleman let
himself go, and the following is a fair
summary of his statement:
More than 300 new factories in more
than 100 country towns. Factories worth
£8,000,000 being built. Freight conces-
sions to country textile works. The Mc-
Gags had divided the State into 20 de-
velopmental regions. Building Materials
Department always gave “sympathetic
consideration” to country factories and
Secondary Industries Department “always”
encouraged manufacturers to go to the
country. Housing Commission placing
more houses in country areas. Since 1941
£3,125,600 spent on “civilian” water and
sewerage services; four new country water-
supplies; 25 “augmented” water-supplies;
17 water and seven sewerage schemes under
construction. State-wide electricity hook-
up. Extension of educational facilities.
ITiere was nothing about hospitals—a
tender subject.
McKell and McGag “Labor” have
ruled N.S.W. since 1941. In those nine
years the country people have had ex-
periences they never had before—train
services reduced or cut out altogether
at the whim of coalminers, roads falling
into ruin, electricity and gas blackouts in
the towns, shortages of houses, materials
and labor, frequent shortages of food-
stuffs, beer and tobacco, repercussion of
mine, steel, transport and wharf strikes —
and though they looked for them to an
extent in war-time, they didn’t expect to
be still suffering them five years after
the war ended, with the dire prospect
of continuing to suffer so long as the
McGags remain in power.
The claims about country housing,
schooling, water-supplies and electricity
are poppycock. Certainly enough sods
have been turned, foundation-stones laid,
and speeches made from Tenterfield to
the Murray by this crowd of promisers,
but that’s as .far as most of them have
got. The so-called new country factories
are mainly located in buildings taken over
or hurriedly run up by the Federal
Government for war production and
subsequently sold, let or leased to their
present occupiers. The only new roads
the rural areas have were built for mili-
tary use during the war. The l ates
promise in this regard is to build a road
from Glen Innes to Iluka as part of a
grand pre-election scheme to link InvereU
and Glen Innes by rail and open Iluka
as a deep-sea port for New England an
the north-west. It emanated from ' lr ;
Dickson’s leader with suspicious alacrity
when he heard the New England new-
State movement was revived and full o
life.
In any event, none of these things hav
halted the drift to the city. Before M r ;
Dickson opened his mouth he shorn
have consulted the N.S.W. Year-800 ■
There he would have found that, desp l
all this alleged rural development,
population of Sydney, Newcastle an
Wollongong increased from 1,463,399
1933 to 1,819,036 in 1947, or 24.2 pej
cent., whereas in the same period that
the rest of the State increased h°
1,137,448 to 1,165,802, or barely 2.5 F
cent., the whole N.S.W. population ha
ing increased from 2,600,847 to 2,984,0 >
or 14.8 per cent. ~
And should Mr. Dickson hold that
claim applies only to the McGag’s tn
years of Government, let him look,
rural vital statistics, where he will h
that, though natural increase in rh
areas is greater in proportion than m -
areas, only five or six large coU e
towns have retained their natural ,ncr . ve
and attracted outsiders. The rest h
failed to do either. . ifflS
In the face of that the Dickson cia
are balderdash, and they can no 111
save the McGag Government fr° m _ da y
wrath of the rural areas on elect 10 0" ,
than the Chifley pre-election claims s
fyis colleagues from defeat in the cou


PLAIN ENGLISH
Socialisation Stalled.
The tradition at such junctures as this in
obtain is that, since the sovereign people
JTT.O wrong, it is for the political
parties to construe what their decision
means and to act ’accordingly.
From that decision these two facts
stand up at once:- .
That the Liberal party is wiped out as
an intruder upon the main issues dividing
Britain politically.
That the Attlee Socialist Government has
scrambled back, but has lost its tickets
and its luggage.
The Liberals were a nuisance to both
the main parties. Judging by the
totals of votes cast, the country
is fairly evenly divided on the
question of more socialisation or less
socialisation. But on experience in the
past there was enough difference be-
tween those voting strengths to have per-
mitted a good working majority for one
side or the other if Liberals had not split
the issue in most of 400 constituencies —
and split it without any result for thein-
selves except complete ignominy.
Opinion in Britain seems to agree that
there are no prospects of a coalition Gov-
ernment, and that there will have to be a
second election before very long. This
view is based on the incompatibility of
the Conservatives and Socialists in the
polemics of the day, but takes no count
of difficulties looming up for any Gov-
ernment, especially:
The extent to which Britain can sustain
the Socialist Government’s further pro-
gramme—or even that part of it which has
been completed —in circumstances of
diminishing and rapidly-expiring Marshall
aid.
looming onset of German and
Japanese competition in world markets.
The question whether the Western Allies
can make a reasonable settlement with
Russia for control of atom-bomb weapons
or whether they must prepare for eventual
aggression from the Soviet as soon as
Moscow is ready.
A coalition Government is an evil. It is
disliked by all parties and by the electors
also. But a Britain weakened in foreign
councils by evenly-matched and im-
penitent party division at home might be
a still greater evil in respect of either the
winning of economic prosperity or the
tipping of the scales against another world
war.
The fundamental social and economic
c anges °f the past five years were not
Labor s sole initiation. Under the
war-time all-party Government headed by
w/r uMf Chill these features of the post-
™re State had been planned or
actually launched:
schlme Nati ° nal Health Insurance (Beveridge)
The Family Allowances Act.
option of the Reid Renort for recon-
struction of the coal industry (announced
May, 1945).
The Education Bill of 1944 (framed by
a Conservative president of the Board of
Education).
The housing scheme (only Mr. Aneurin
Bevan’s performance has not come up to
the Coalition Government’s programme).
The dividing issues are those aroused
by the haste of the Socialists to nationalise
basic industries for the sake of nation-
alisation, particularly the prosperous,
income-earning steel industry. That, plus
the manifold restrictions dictated by
currency inflatiqn partly concealed by im-
mense food subsidies —these all reveal
unforeseen developments from the 1945
“Labor” programme, and the country has
as yet had no frank and explicit balance-
sheet surveying the results even of exist-
ing “experiments.”
If the Attlee Government is resolved
upon pressing forward into this risky un-
known country it will have to get a
clearer mandate from the electors. Mr.
Chifley’s judgment, in his message to Mr,
Attlee, surely stands alone in Downing-
street. He called the. election results
“a magnificent performance,”
' •
Completely Irresponsible.
Arthur Augustus Cal well’s incitement
of the workers of Australia not to co-
operate with the Menzies Government in
putting value back into the pound was a
feature of his Address-in-Reply speech on
Thursday night, and was typical of the
“Labor” Opposition’s opening attack on
the new Government. In effect, Mr. Cal-
well was inciting wage-earners to ex-
pedite their own ruin, the foundations of
which ruin had already been laid by his
party in its spineless and sophistic indus-
trial policy and its liaison, through the
trade-unions, with the treacherous Com-
munist party.
“Labor” in the Senate and the Repre-
sentatives last week proceeded with
indecent speed to try to tie the economic
wreckage of its own administration round
the neck of the incoming Government.
There, were almost jubilant references to
impending industrial unrest, about which
“Labor” members seemed to have advance
information. The petrol shortage, coal
scarcity, the rapid inflationary momentum
in prices which got its initial impetus at
least five years ago—even the seasonally
high price of eggs—all were blamed on
the Menzies Government, which has been
in office for only two months, and which
so far has not had the opportunity of
passing one bill through Parliament.
“Labor” members showed themselves,
in Opposition, to be greater political
larrikins, and far more irresponsible
citizens, than they were as a Government.
But the chief thing to be kept in mind
by electors is that the ruin which ha« been
wreaked by “Labor” in eight years can-
not be remedied in eight weeks.
The Public Accounts.
The Auditor-General has been pretty
plain-spoken for years about the manner
of presenting Commonwealth accounts,
year there seems to be some
chance that his words will be heeded,
Mr. Joyce says in his summing-up:
In my previous annual report I re-
ferred to the rapid growth of Common-
wealth revenues and expenditures since the
pre-war years—the total estimated expendi-
ture from Consolidated Revenue Fund and
Loan Fund during 1949-50 is £592,100,000,
as compared with a total actual expenditure
during the last pre-war year, 1938-39, of
£98,658,000 and I expressed the opinion
that the need for a more detailed and con-
tinuous Parliamentary (non-party) survey of
expenditure is much greater to-day than it
was during the period when the Parliamen-
tary Committee of Public Accounts func-
tioned, viz., from 1913 to 1932.
He says the re-establishment of a public-
accounts committee is much to be desired,
and that “an additional provision ,in the
Act requiring the committee to consider,
where necessary, the reports of the
Auditor-General, would have a whole-
some effect in the more efficient and
economical administration of Common-
wealth departments.”
All of which is supported by the facts
adduced in his report, though it might
have been added that, apart from the re-
establishment of the committee, abolished
by Mr. Lyons, the restoration of
adequate debates on the Estimates —also
abandoned by that gentleman, from whose
time onwards Estimate debates have been
a mere formality circumscribed to the
point of uselessness by time-limits —is an
urgent matter.
If the Public Accounts committee had
been in existence it certainly would have
taken a hand in dealing with the finances
of the Shipping Board, whose operations
on owned and chartered tonnage, probed
only to June, 1948, showed a loss for
that year of £2,548,000. Mr. Joyce calls
for special investigation into the continu-
ing losses of the board in view of their
magnitude. On requisitioned tonnage the
board had lost £ll million to June 30
last.
If the Public Accounts committee is re-
constituted shipping and shipbuilding
should be one of its major investiga-
tions, along with the financial arrange-
ments and programme of the P.M.G.’s
Department, whose complete failure to
meet its expenses is a startling develop-
ment. Generally speaking its whole
financial system, apart from its mount-
ing costs, appears to be unsatisfactory.
"The Casket."
There were distinct noises of relief and
a strong desire to go out and kick some-
body in pure exuberance when the
Queensland . “Labor” boys held their
annual “Labor-in-politics” conference
just after a royal commission had
brought in a not-guilty verdict to Opposi-
tion charges of dirty work between the
State lottery and a ticket-selling agency.
The Opposition now declares that if
elected to power at the forthcoming
State elections it will inquire into the
business again. If it does, it will need to
produce far better and more substantial
evidence. Allegations based on rumors,
anonymous statements and hearsay, and
accompanied by refusals to name or pro-
duce witnesses, won’t convince royal com-
missions.
All the same, the Hanlon people haven’t
much to congratulate themselves about.
The royal commission wasn’t at all
pleased with the “letter of appointment
of Golden Investments as Casket agent,”
and suggested these reforms;
Provision that any extra charge to inter-
state or oversea subscribers should be fixed
by the Casket manager;
No commission to be paid on tickets to
the principals of Golden Investments or
its staff under their own or assumed names;
Certificates issued to Canadian sub-
scribers by Golden Investments should
clearly indicate the holder of the original
ticket.
The Hanlons at their conference let
loose a flood of abuse of Brisbane
“Courier-Mail.” There were threats of
taxing the Press if its “campaign” resulted
in a falling-away of lottery revenue and
a lot of other rot.
To which the paper coldly replied that
since Golden Investments is obviously an
agent for the Queensland Government in
selling its lottery tickets in other States
and countries where lotteries and the sale
of lottery tickets is illegal, the Hanlons
are making the State “an accomplice in
an illegal and unsavory business.”
Unsavory all these Government lotteries
are. The worst aspect of them all is in
the creation of a money-for-nothing
complex in the people, so that deserving
charities can no longer expect free public
donations and themselves have to resort
to large-scale gambling. In Queensland
ticket-selling agents for the Casket have
made packets of money in commissions
from the Government gamble, and some
can run to motor yachts, ownership of
racehorses and luxury trips abroad.
Australia's Public Enemies.
Public enemies of efforts to lift Aus-
tralian production—without which, as the
leader of the late “Labor” Government
repeatedly declared, the country would
face “economic disaster”—are now adver-
tising themselves with deliberate incite-
ments of industrial disorder.
Last week’s three outstanding characters
in this role are all Communists, control-
ling officials on union executives and
(Continued on next page.)
“ROW, BROTHERS, ROW!”
? *oductv o/v


F
GF
CRAVENA
for your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable
in lO’s & 2«'s
/T
"7
Jt
4
6744
CARRERAS LTD. - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
directing union policy for subversive
political ends. Here they are;
No. I. Communist-agent * Roach,
assistant secretary of the Waterside Workers,
on “a secret visit” to Brisbane, addressed
68 gang-leaders in order 1o ginger-up de-
mands designed to permit none but union
appointment of the selected gangs to the
hatches where they are to work. Stoppages,
expected to inaugurate a new series of
“rolling strikes” in Queensland ports, are
timed to sabotage shipment of 60,000 bales
of wool from latest Brisbane wool sales.
No. 2. —Communist-agent O’Shea, secre-
tary Melbourne Tramway Association. Be-
cause the Commissioner made an award the
track-repairers did not like, and the Tram-
ways Board and the State Government
refused to ignore that decision, a general
tram strike was ordered. Communist-
bossed Victorian branch of the railways
union was on the brink when this went to
press.
No. 3. —Communist-agent McKeon, of the
Ironworkers’ Association, was summoned
before Conciliation Commissioner Galvin
over “gunpoint demands” against em-
ployers in Sydney establishments in what
the Commissioner agreed was an “or-
ganised effort to forestall the Arbitration
Court’s decision in the basic-wage case.”
In each instance the open and insolent
defiance of authority is the distinguishing
feature. At the trammies’ meeting in
Melbourne opponents of the strike motion
were refused a hearing, O’Shea opposed
an adjournment until the Sunday to per-
mit Commissioner Blackburn to hear the
case, and then this strikemonger attacked
Commissioner Blackburn in these words
(Melbourne “Age” report):
It is useless to go before Blackburn; he
rejected the union’s claim on December
20. He’ll scrub us tomorrow if we go and
see him. We’re only wasting our time.
There’s only one way to get our claim,
and that is to strike now.
In Sydney Commissioner Galvir
referred the Ironworkers’ strike to the
Arbitration Court. Before he gave this
decision Communist McKeon, of the Iron-
workers, said all offers by the company
for bonus payments had been rejected.
This exchange with the Commissioner
ensued: —
McKeon: The men have correctly re-
jected bonus and incentive schemes or any-
thing else designed to increase production.
Commissioner: You don’t think increased
production would counter the inflationary
, spiral?
McKeon; No.
These are the public enemies of in-
dustrial progress in Australia who, when
in due course the promised legislative
action by the Menzies Government b
taken against them, will scream about
“repressive legislation.”
-
POINTS
In Britain they don’t waste much time
after an election. Last Thursday was
polling-day ; the new Parliament meets
today for the swearing-in, and the State
opening by the King will take place next
Monday.
Attlee faces the new Commons today
with his majority of 140 reduced to a
meagre handful —probably seven, the
likely composition of the House being
Labor, 315; Conservative, 298 ; Liberal,
8 ; Independent Liberal, 1 ; Irish Nation-
alists, 2. The remaining seat of the 625
will be contested later. The result of
the election could be described as a win
for the Government but a defeat for its
policy of Socialism and - nationalisation.
There seems to be general agreement that
another election is inevitable before long ;
with the parties so evenly matched a
mild epidemic of colds or an extra-heavy
crop of hangovers could see the Govern-
ment defeated any tick of the clock. But
the Socialists, being Socialists, will hang
on to office while they can, knowing that
the three-score seats they won in three-
cornered fights will not all come their
way next time.
A month ago Conservative chairman
Lord Woolton said that the Liberals’ in-
tervention in the election was dictated by
a desire to keep the Conservatives out
rather than to attack Socialism. If that
was really the Libs’ desire they can
congratulate themselves on accomplish-
ing it —but only just. The party’s own
avowed wish was to hold the balance
between Labor and Conservatives. In
theory they have virtually achieved this,
but their numbers are so small that their
support is scarcely worth Labor’s accept-
ance, in view of the string tied to it —
abandonment of further nationalisation.
Unable to make up its mind between
“Labor” and Conservatives, the British
electorate was at least definite in its re-
jection of the Communists. Britain’s only
two Red M.Ps., unable as in 1945 to ride
on the backs of the Red Army, were
dumped very heavily. The rejection ex-
tended also to fellow-travellers; Konni
Zilliacus and the other four “Labor”
rebels found out, as Falstein found in
December, that you can’t buck the
“Labor” machine.
Zilliacus contested as an Independent
Laborite East Gateshead, which he won
for “Labor” five years ago with a majority
of 19,000. I. B. Priestley supported him ;
so did Bernard Shaw, who wrote to him:
“A vote against you is a vote for another
war.” Apparently East Gateshead
prefers another war to another dose of
Zilliacus.
An indisputable fact which emerges
from the British elections is that in Britain,
as in Australia, “Labor” is a Big-City
party. The rural constituencies showed
that they would have none of Socialism.
But even in the cities “Labor’s” vote,
though higher than in 1945, due to the
heavier poll, was down relatively to its
opponents’ figures. Morgan Phillips,
secretary of the party, pointed out that
the “Labor” vote in the boroughs was up
30 per cent., Conservative 57 per cent.
Archie Cameron, the new Speaker,
made it clear that he intends to
do his best towards bringing to his office
the dignity which is attached to it in the
British Parliament, but which it has not
always held in Australia. The first
Speaker of the House of Representatives,
Frederick Holder, held office for nine
years and under six Governments, but
since then the post has usually changed
with changing Governments. Archie
Cameron is the 12th Speaker since
Federation; in the same period the
House of Commons has had only five;
changes in Government haven’t affected
them. Present Speaker, Col. Clifton-
Brown, Conservative member for Hex-
ham, was chosen in 1943, when Churchill’s
National Government was in power. He
was again voted in the Chair in 1945
after the Labor victory, and was un-
opposed in his electorate last Thursday,
though not in 1945.
At the present time Attlee may well
be telling himself that courtesy pays.
Col. Clifton-Brown can hardly decline
the Speakership; he indicated before the
election that he would accept nomination
and it was for that reason he was un-
opposed. If his party urges him to
change his mind he has nothing to worry
about; he said weeks ago that he in-
tended to retire at the end of this Par-
liament.
Calwell lost no time in showing that
he intends to compensate his ego for
loss of Ministerial power by indulging
his flair for abuse and invective. His
gratuitous attack during the Address-in-
Reply debate on R. G. Casey’s record as
Governor of Bengal was typical Yarra-
bank ranting—or the sort of stuff that
was typical of the Yarra-bank before
Calwell went to Canberra.
The McGirr railways lost two million
last financial year, over half a million
more than Mcoirr budgeted for; the
McGirr trams and buses lost £309,512 ;
the Budget estimate was for £64,500. This
gagging Premier’s Budget estimates seem
to be as wild as was his 90,000-homes
promise.
In addition to heavy losses on its trans-
port services, the McGag Government
had to announce a loss of £17,125 on
its brickworks. If this is what happens
when customers are waiting with their
tongues hanging out for bricks, what’s
going to happen when demand falls off?
North Queensland Development League
expects 1000 delegates at its Townsville
conference on April 17, when proclama-
tion of N.Q. as a “strategic area” will
be urged, the idea being that it could
then get priority in building materials,
preferential taxation and increased
amenities, and thereby attract people to
go and live there. If N.Q. was a State
with a Government of its own it wouldn’t
have to dabble with such desperate
notions.
With Victorian State elections in sight,
and likely to be precipitated if the Gov-
ernment parties’ quarrel continues, the
rump of the Victorian Country party was
last week in ferment over a demand from
eight of its members that the party
should withdraw from official Opposition
and “move in behind the Government.”
Its leader, McDonald, still recuperating
from a serious motoring accident, com-
mented that a meeting of the Parlia-
mentary party would be called before
the annual party conference at. Bendigo
on March 28. It seems to be assumed
that Premier Hollway will not before
that date have decided for or a'gainst an
early election. The butcher-bird voice of
Albert Dunstan should shortly be heard
in its familiar menace to the harmony of
any coalition in the interests of stable
government in Victoria.
Next Saturday South Australia goes to
the polls; Westralia follows three weeks
later. In 1947 the two States also held
their elections close together and both
returned Liberal-Country-party Govern-
ments. This time Playford should be
able to win his fourth campaign without
being unduly worried ; McLarty’s task is
not so simple, but if the Federal figures
are any guide his composite Government
should be set for another term. It is
anybody’s guess which of the other four
State Premiers will be first into the elec-
tion pond.
Shortly after the Federal election it
was pointed out her© that under the pro-u.
portional-representation system of voting
devised for the Senate by the Chifley
Government a double-dissolution and a
subsequent election could have only one
result —a Senate equally divided —and that
this defeated the intention of the framers
of the Constitution that a double-dissolu-
tion should provide a means of overcom-
ing deadlocks between the two Houses.
Bill Wentworth described this in his
maiden speech as “a constitutional ob-
struction far exceeding anything which
has ever been experienced in Australia,”
and asked whether it was an' accident or
whether Dr. Evatt had designed it “to
abort the peoples’ verdict against him in
1949? Was it manslaughter of the Con-
stitution, or was it murder?” If “Labor”
Senators do vote in a way which makes a
double-dissolution inevitable there will be
no disputing the verdict on at least half a
dozen of them; it will be plain-and-
simple suicide.
After July I—a1 —a double-dissolution can
scarcely occur before July—the state of
parties in the Senate will be:
Labor. Lib.-C.P.
N.S.W 6 4*
Vic 6 4
Q’land .. .. .. 3 7
S.A. 7 3
W.A 6 4
Tas. .. .. .. 6 4
34 26
Those three “Labor” Senators from
Queensland should be a happy trio. Come
what may they will be sure of getting
back again. “Labor” men from the other
States won’t be so happy. To one of them
in every State team, and in the case of
South Australia, two, a double-dissolution
will mean goodbye to the Senate chamber
and its £l5OO a year„ plus expenses, plus
private secretary, plus gold pass, plus the
rest of his senatorial privileges. The old
hands may feel fairly safe, but to new
men the prospect of saying goodbye to
all that before they have had time
properly to savor the taste won’t be a
happy one.
In the N.S.W. Assembly on Thursday
Liberal member McCaw alleged that a
“Labor” member had accepted £2O-£3O a
week for securing for a concern known
as Non-Metallics, Ltd., transport advan-
tages denied to the general public. He
said he had sent the relative information
to the Attorney-General. McGirr at first
“knew nothing,” but later found that the
Minister for Justice had passed the in-
formation on to . the police. McCaw
named no one, but outside the House
F. J. Cahill, M.L.A. for Young, said that
he understood the charge was made
against him and that it was “a complete
and utter fabrication, slanderous in the
extreme.” He invited the fullest investi-
gation. On Sunday night McCaw said
that he had not yet been questioned by
the police.
Our ex-Foreign Policy tnay have cost
us a lot in terms of loss of Dutch good-
will, but it didn’t affect the Nether-
landers’ appreciation of at least one Aus-
tralian. A new hangar at Schiphol,
Amsterdam’s airport, the largest in
Europe, is to be named Kingsford-Smith.
The acknowledgment commemorates an
Atlantic crossing Smithy made in 1930
in a Dutch Fokker. His colleague on that
trip was Evert van Dijk.
Non-endorsement, to “Labor” members
the fate worse than death, has befallen
four of McGirr’s henchmen—Geraghty
(North Sydney), Heferan (Barwon), Seif-
-fert (Monaro) and Stanley (Lakemba).
The party executive has cast them out,
despite the fact that their nominations
were unopposed in their own electorates.
Two of the rejected are talking of running
as Independents, and caucus is to con-
sider executive’s action this week. If
there is one thing the McGirrs can’t
afford at the moment it’s a split.
In his maiden speech the new E. J.
Harrison, “Labor” member for Blax-
land, went to great pains to ensure that
he was not confused with the old E. J,
Harrison, deputy-leader of the Liberal
party. By the time he had finished his
speech the old E.J.H. was probably grate-
ful to him for making the distinction
clear.
With a change of Government habit is
apt to betray the tongues of members
into strange slips, as when Spender told
the House last week that it it had to
listen to the “drooling of the Prime
Minister.” Just when new members
were wondering whether this was the cus-
tomary form of compliment for a
Minister to pay his leader, Percy realised
his mistake and corrected himself. It
was the ex-Prime Minister who had
drooled.


SINCE 1847
GF
G
WINES
good for more
than a centur
PERSONAL ITEMS
, j „ Cr D Hand, chosen
Bishop Coadjulofof New Guinea, will
“mber his appointment by two
outstanding characteristics— at 31 tie
r he youngest Anglican bishop
S , he world and he will be
consecrated in that re ™ rk j“ e ß^ rad
Dogura Cathedral, on Bartle Bay. A
fanfastic sight from seaward
bulk (longer than Sydney s Andrews)
from the fierce profusion of moun-
tains which hem it round, the cathedral
is made of stone hewn from near-by
quarries and manhandled up the plateau
by mission-boys. Its architect was a
beachcombing Scot; it was completed in
four and a half years at a cost of tSuUU,
£lOOO of which was given by the boys.
The stone in the altar was shaped 200 years
before William the Conqueror landed in
Britain, and comes from St. Augustine’s
Abbey. Fitted into the mortar at regular
intervals are stone griffins and gargoyles
from some of the oldest cathedrals in
England ; 200 yards to the rear lie smoke-
blackened stones where, 70 years ago, the
victorious Qamana tribe feasted on their
enemies, the Wedauans. Chunky and
confident, born at Clermont, central
Queensland, the new bishop has already
had three years in north-eastern New
Guinea; on return there he will busy
himself providing agricultural, as well as
spiritual, welfare for his flock.
C. Bede Maxwell’s book of the surf, Red-
paged 15/2/’5O, has another relationship with
The Bulletin —through two of its star charac-
ters. Bill Kemb'er, here caught by Dubois out
of the Maroubra surf, works in the publishing
department. Leo Gocher, of the process de-
LIFESAVER.
partment, who helped to prepare this block, is
a son of Bill Gocher, who at Manly in 1902
broke the ban against daytime surfing,
having swimmers is, of course, the every-
day routine of Sydney surf-clubmen. When
one of them rates a medal for the
J°b it is something very far from every-
day- One Saturday afternoon in 1944, when
huge Pacific combers were ending their long ride
’h crashing symphonies of white and green on
Maroubra beach, Kember was coming off watch
after a trick at beach-inspecting; he saw a
ooy swept out on a swift undertow. A boat
or swimmer with a water-heavy line would
nave been useless. Peeling off shorts as he
ran, Kember was in in a second —and out
?| a ‘h> gasping, flung back by a vicious dumper.
Making it the next time, he swam strongly
inrough the ridged whiteness and into heaving
green water, looking vainly for the lad. No
r Bn i,u- be P O PPed up 150 yards away.
cjrabbmg him, the surfman headed for shore
ana, after swimming for' seeming hours, found
mmself 800 yards out. There followed nearly
three-quarters of an hour of struggle, until once
gain broken water was approached. For 20
years Kember had been preparing himself for
tms moment—the exhausting effort of drag-
ging an unconscious patient against the smooth,
green, seaward tow behind the white of break-
g waves. All the strength of trained muscles
gainst the dragging rip; then he had won, was
re^ !Il u w , ater an d being pounded and pushed
thnnH ds - the beach a few feet at a time by the
combers. When his feet at last
bottom and Kember staggered up
ctra;l and good-humored face was grey with
n. The crowd cheered itself hoarse.
Kember was given the coveted Meritorious
Award in Silver; the only professional to win
it for a rescue other than from a shark. Holder,
as well, of the Royal Humane Society’s medal,
the big quiet bloke was 40 at the time of a
rescue still spoken of at Maroubra as the
bravest in its memory.
To visit U.K. and Europe in quest of
the latest information about infantile
paralysis, Dr. B. P. McCloskey, the Vic-
torian Government’s poliomyelitis officer,
who has himself made some weighty con-
tributions to the subject. He will read
a paper on it to the International Con-
gress of Pediatricians at Zurich, and in
London will hear Professor Burnet, his
old boss at the Walter and Eliza Hall
Institute in Melbourne, deliver an address
on the tragic complaint’s causation.
To report that Peter Finch, in
climbing in under the wing of
Laurence Olivier, has hit the
success jackpot is just about as
obvious as revealing that only
hard, conscientious work got
him there. Finch’s career, since
he came here from London at
14, is another refutation of the
Hollywood glamor - overnight
type of success story. Making
his first public appearance in
vaudeville in Sydney’s Macca-
bean Hall about 20 years ago,
he has since pulled on anything
that would give him experience
and poise, from a smart detec-
tive in A.B.C. serials to Captain
Scott of Douglas Stewart’s verse-
play “Fire on the Snow.”
He has toured the country in
George Sorley’s tents, played
with J.C.W. and Ernest Rolls,
and in Chauvel’s “Rats of Tobruk”
was the young English writer turned
drover. He got pretty close to
Tobruk in real life; as a sergeant of
aVtillery he was at Mersa Matruh. Now in
Olivier’s production of “The Damascus
Blade” in Newcastle-on-Tyne, Finch will
play with John Mills. The Maccabean
Hall may do well to remember that 1930
vaudeville act. *
If ever an Australian has gone over-
seas with his country’s blessing it is
Cecil Newton McKay, leader of the
mission to look into importation of
prefabs for the country’s legion of
homeless. Canberra could hardly have
chosen better. As president of the Royal
Agricultural Society and Chamber of
Manufactures McKay is head of both
primary and secondary industries in
Victoria; as managing-director of H. V.
McKay-Massey Harris he is head of a
world-known manufacturing organisation.
Ploughs and harvesters of his father,
Hugh Victor, harnessed the Siberian soil
of Tsarist Russia and established a trade-
connection between Sunshine South
America. The ancient shed in which the
founder made his first equipment still
crouches in the vast works at Sunshine,
like an antique in a modern parlor. Born
in Ballarat 50 years ago, Cecil was still
at Melbourne’s Scotch College when he
joined the A.F.C.; he returned to school
after the war. For 10 years chairman of
the Associated Aero Clubs of Australia,
his hobby is still flying—it used to be
rowing, in which he pulled in the win-
ning crews of the Grand Challenge,
Champion Eights and Fours and the
King’s Cup.
Gerald Packer, taking off frdm his
Melbourne motor-car interests to land in
the commission controlling T.A.A., is
already well up in his new job. A per-
manent soldier for 11 years, graduating
from Duntroon, he shifted to the air and
in 1940 was Director of R.A.A.F. Intelli-
gence. At the end he was laying the
tarmac for his latest job, though he
couldn’t have known it then—as assist-
ant inspector of the R.A.A.F.’s adminis-
tration. A delegate to the 1938 Capstone
conference, in 1946 vice-president of the
Australian Institute of International
Affairs, he is on the right side of 50.
A well-versed mining-man now warms
Queensland University’s first Chair of
Mining Engineering—Professor Thomas
White, who practised his Melbourne ’Var-
sity theory for five years under Westralia’s
gold-country before having a look at
Malaya and Fiji with the Colonial Mining
Service. Here his interests were not con-
fined to engineering—the legislation
governing the area’s mines, and some of
that touching on mining-health, rehabili-
tation and taxes, bear his stamp.
MR. SPEAKER.
Two from the Speck’s University are
off overseas this year —Dr. E. E. Kurth,
head of the Chemistry Department, and
Dr. H. A. Buchdahl, research physicist
and lecturer in physics. Kurth is headed
for England and America, to study uni-
versity laboratories for ideas in equipping
Tassie’s projected university at Sandy
Bay. Buchdahl, with a Nuffield Founda-
tion Dominion travelling fellowship in
science, will go to England later in the
year, to delve into nuclear physics, and
to further his relation with the theory
of relativity.
Thirty years ago Sydney Myer was
after a manager for his fur department,
as most Australians, especially husbands,
know only prices, he shipped to England
and brought back E. M. Ricker, here
cherubically presented by Mcßeath. Now
deputy managing-director of the Myer
organisation, Ricker first saw light on the
Tyne (in company with Ted Scorfield),
FURS.
was sailor at 14 and soldier at 16, serving
throughout the Kaiser’s war with the 47th
London Division, and emerging with his
quota of wounds and a commission. He
spare-times at Portsea (Vic.), on the
hopeful end of a fishing-line, with his
good cobbers the local toilers of the sea.
Passing of knight Eric Millhouse in
Adelaide leaves a regretted blank file in
R.S.L. ranks. A member since he won his
badge gunning with the old Eighth Bat-
tery, ceasing-fire a sergeant, he returned
to the legal practice which the war had
interrupted, and in 1922 began a seven-
year term as Crown Prosecutor; he was
the first South Australian appointed to
the Army Legal Department, in which
capacity many a “shark”-harassed Digger
will remember him. From State presi-
dent of the League he stepped up to
Federal head-serang in 1946, the difficult
year of rehabilitation and of the thorny
problem of eligibility for League mem-
bership. He was a still-cheerful, vigorous
58 at the Last Post.
When for the first time a cruiser towed
a “dumb” destroyer from Sydney to
Melbourne the officer responsible for
what hung on the cable or so of steel-
wire rope was the senior Reserve
officer now serving—Lt.-Cdr, H,
K. Dwyer. Whip-cord lean,
with a weather-darkened dial,
Dwyer knows his little ships,
having climbed from gunnery-
officer of corvette Bathurst,
which helped surface the mine-
field which got the American
City of Rayville off Wilson’s
Promontory early in the un-
pleasantness, to first lieutenant
of another, and finally captain
of the Rockhampton. She was
one of those single-gunned craft
which poked round Jap-held
islands, like terriers round a
wounded bull, darting in, loosing
off, and generally mopping-up
what the battlers left. Dwyer
took his 800-odd ton midget into
Ambon and the Halmaheras,
piously hoping the garrison had
heard the Son of Heaven’s cease-fire
order, found they had, and took their
surrender. After the war, as C.O. of
L.S.T. 3017, better known as H.M.A.S.
Tarakan, he had her dumping ammo
outside Sydney Heads when some
of the cargo blew up. He left her a
short time before she had her latest
tragic explosion. The only Reservist to
win the R.A.N. lawn-tennis champion-
ship, Dwyer has played with Crawford,
and has been selected for the 1950 inter-
services team.
Into the Silence:
At Ballarat, at 57, Richard Stanistreet, Old
Digger and district superintendent of Victorian
railways. Commissioned in the field with the
First Division Signalling Company, he served
the whole of that war overseas, coming back
with M.C. and M.M. His grandfather was
stationmaster at Glenrowan when the net closed
on N. Kelly.
In Sydney, at 89, Henry Willis, who came
over from Port Adelaide to become the first
Mayor of Cabramatta and Canley Vale
(N.S.W.). Elected to the House of Representa-
tives for Robertson (N.S.W.) in the first Com-
monwealth Parliament, he had three terms there,
was defeated for the next, but got into the
N.S.W. Assembly, member for Upper Hunter, in
1910. Next year he was Speaker, and though
the report that he held an axe in lieu of a
mace is incorrect, they were two stormy years,
ended by an election reverse which finished
his political career.
In London, at 86, Sir Max Pemberton,
novelist and playwright. Though m 34-
years he produced 36 books, including a
memoir of Lord Northcliffe, of whose news-
papers he was director, he is probably remem-
bered just as much by today’s fathers for
another prime achievement —at one time he
was editor of Chums.
At Townsville, Worthington Cottcll, 90-year-
old waterfront veteran and one of the best-
known of northern coastal shipping men Son
of a British master-mariner, he had his fill or
blue water before confining his courses to run-
ning between Townsville and Cooktown. Leav-
ing decks for wharf-planks, he became a Cus-
toms boarding-officer and later joined Burns
Philp.
In Melbourne, at 74, Very Rev. Joseph
Filbry, born in Westphalia and student in Bel
gium, Germany and Austria Orddmed at the
beginning of the century, he shifted to the
Pacific early and practised Christianity in the
MaShallf and at Rabaul, E*pe„en“ gamed
there gave him the procuratorship ot all Rh--
Pacific missions.
In Perth, Thomas Anthoness, who had been
an architect for more than fifty years
was associated with the erection or reconstruc
tion of several theatres in Perth, Fremantle and
Albany.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
[Generously offered to some new member of the
Federal Parliament.]
“Becks”: When the new Government
gets down to considering the question of
States’ rights some attention should be
given to the problem of who owns the
sky and what falls therefrom. This may
not seem an important matter, but that
there are rumblings Of discontent is sug-
gested by a heading in a Brisbane paper;
“States Share in Queensland Rain.” The
item which followed stated that the rain
which had fallen in all States on the
previous day had been caused directly or
indirectly by the North Queensland
monsoon. There seemed tp be a touch
of piaue in the statement —a hint that the
“ Don't be disappointed; it's just the models night off."`
southern States had no right to be bene-
filing from sky-juice which rightly be-
longed north of the border. This seems
to be a matter the next Premiers’ con-
ference might well clear up. While they
are on the subject they might also give
a ruling as to whether landholders in
New South Wales, Victoria and Queens-
land have any right to retain the soil
which settles on their property every time
there is a dust-storm in South and Central
Australia.
“Clooter”: lam at last convinced that
the female has achieved that dominance
in human affairs for which she has been
crying. Time was when a prince or any
man of fame or notoriety stood alone,
and lesser mortals learned of his fortunes
or misfortunes with due respect for his
greatness, and although here and there a
wife or two in humble circumstances
might have wondered what the great
man’s wife thought about it, such
wonderings were of small account. The
other day I caught a bold headline which
ran, “Prince Breaks Leg,” and with that
lingering awe of the great which
democracy and union membership has
not yet eradicated from my boorjoice
soul, read on, only to be confronted with
these opening words: “Prince Aly Khan,
Rita Hayworth’s husband, broke his leg,
etc.” It is obvious that this form of
identification means (a) the woman’s
name and not her prince’s gave' the item
its news-value, (b) if he had not been her
husband nobody would have cared if he’d
broken all his legs, and (c) it is a news
item concerning her, not him. It ought to
cure all those fellows who wish they
could marry a wealthy heiress or a
famous fillum-star. As for me, I’ll
remain content, for if ever I do win
a competition at my golf-club I’ve
no fear of seeing it in the Press
as “Eastlakes, par, Mrs. Clooter’s
husband (18), 2 up.”
“Pawang”: Two hundred specialists
meeting in New York have come to the
sad conclusion that for the bald or going-
bald there is no hope whatever, either of
retarding the process or of producing a
crop where there is no crop. Of the three
conditioning factors—genetic inheritance,
age and lack of hormones —two are out
of the control of science, and it is con-
sidered undesirable to stimulate the last
one. To the chairman’s question “Do
any chemical or physical agents promote
growth,” a resounding “No” was given,
but this won’t affect the hair-restorer in-
dustry in the slightest. A middle-aged
man of my acquaintance rubs his head
with a composition for a couple of hours
every evening, and has been doing so for
at least five years without producing any
perceptible effect. He will still go on
doing it even if he reads the N.Y. cable.
That amount of focus and effort applied
in a different direction might turn him
into a Socrates, who was as bald as a
coot.
* * * *
“Harold Mardupp”: Don’t tell me that
the Australian workman doesn’t take an
intelligent interest in world affairs. One
day recently the argument was so intense
at the works that production must have
fallen off 11.98 per cent.; Roy, who has
been skiting about the three-quid-a-day
earnings since going on piecework in the
wire mill, earned only £2 15s. 5d.; and
quite a number of my fellow-workers
forgot to knock off five minutes before
knock-off time. Certainly it was a day
pregnant with big news: there was Pro-
fessor Einstein’s pronouncement about
the possible extinction of the human
race; a suggestion that Russia would
attack Tito and precipitate another world
war; news of strikes in France, U.S.A.
and Australia; some statements on the
application for a £lO basic wage—quite
a lot of matters that might excite discus-
sion. And, as I have said, discussion was
excited. It was all about the sale to
American buyers of two Australian race-
horses. The general opinion of the men,
most of whom appeared to have lost
heavily on the nags, seemed to be that
it was a cdw of a thing to do. And
especially to U.S.A. “Look what hap-
pened to Phar Lap! ”
* * * *
“Pasquin”: I have never really got the
hang of the atom-bomb, though I dili-
gently studied all those explanatory news-
paper articles and diagrams in 1945. Yet
“Nero gets so horribly jealous."
everyone else seems to understand it.
Radio lecturers, union secretaries,
columnists, politicians, ministers of reli-
gion, my friends and even mere acquaint-
ances of tram and train refer with easy
familiarity to nuclear-fission and radio-
activity. I only nod dumbly when these
matters are mentioned. My ignorance
has been a horrible embarrassment, and I
feel I am looked on as an illiterate oaf.
Now the atom-bomb has dropped out of
ordinary conversation. Am I recovering
my social poise? I am not. It’s all
beginning again with the H-bomb.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: There must be excep-
tions, I suppose, but woman, as I’ve
found her, seems to be completely bam-
boozled by man’s method of measuring
things. Twenty-five feet, to her, could
mean the width of the footpath or twice
the length of a football-field. Neverthe-
less, the sex has its own methods.
Drawing a plan for a woman client, I
found her doubtful about the size of a
room. “How big is twelve feet?” she
asked. “I mean, how many yards?”
And that is the key to feminine measure-
ment. Dragged to a church bazaar I
became a prey for hordes of females
who swiftly changed my silver into raffle-
tickets. One minor form of burglary was
guessing the length of a piece of string
coiled in a bottle. I hadn’t the remotest
idea, but, attempting to look learned,
wrote “Twenty-seven feet, eight-and-a-
quarter inches.” My entry did not gain
wifely approval. “Why didn’t you
do it properly? Everybody else
put down how many yards. Any-
how, there wouldn’t be all that
amount of string.” My good wife
won the competition. Her guess
was nine-and-a-quarter yards, .
)| £ jJ;
“L.G.R.”: With the R.A.F. in
Rangoon in 1941 I studied collo-
quial Hindii —with an eye to the
ten rupees a week extra pay for a
pass. I passed the test, but a week
later the R.A.F. language-test pay-
ment was cancelled for the dura-
tion. In Adelaide last Christmas I
went into a shop and found three
Indian serangs trying to make them-
selves understood. I caught the
flood of Hindii, and it all came
back to me. I was able to rattle off
their wants to the shop-assistant,
and soon had them satisfied. I left
the shop with them and asked them
what their village-name was —that
means where they come from. They
said “Chittagong.” I had spent 17
months at“Chitters” with the original
224 Group, R.A.F. Headquarters.
Chittagong is made up of five fish-
ing villages, and our head-
quarters was in the middle of Kot-
woli village. I told the serangs I had
been in Kotwoli, and we discussed
street-names, places, bazaars and cafes.
From Chittagong in Eastern Bengal come
the best serangs of India. I left them
feeling my Hindii course hadn’t been
wasted after all.
* * ♦ *
“King’s Pawn”: A robot which solves
chess problems is the latest addition to
the mechanical contraptions aimed at
supplanting the human brain, T. Nemes,
chief engineer of the research station of
the Hungarian posts, whose brain-child
it is, claims that his machine, fitted to
observe the rules of chess just as the
calculating-machines follow the rules of
mathematics, when a problem is fed to it,
works out at lightning speed all the pos-
sible moves and indicates with a “ting”
when a mate is found. At present the
machine deals only with two movers and
three movers from a problem position, but
Nemes thinks one could be constructed
capable of playing full games. A Yank
has produced a bridge-playing machine;
and an engineer in England has an idea
for a robot batsman which, with the aid
of radar, sensitive to the approach of the
ball, will introduce mechanism to cricket.
All the pleasant methods man knows of
wasting time seem to be threatened by
the approach of the Robot Age. It’s a
horrible prospect.
♦ * * *
“Macnell”: Not all of the old Implac-
able was blown to rest under the waves
of the English Channel. They kept
enough of her stout old oak to make an
electric table-lamp, which recently was
placed in good hands—the Southampton
Master Mariners’ Club, presented by
Admiral of the Fleet Sir Algernon Willis,
C.-in-C, Portsmouth. The lamp-shade is
made of a section of the Channel chart
depicting the exact spot where the old
battler died. With the lamp went a
signed photograph of Edward VII as
Prince of Wales, taken in 1877 and show-
ing him beside a gun in the British
battleship Thunderer —one of the last
two muzzle-loading battleships in the
R.N. It must have taken half the ship’s
company to ram her shell.
* * * *
“Uramao”: New Zealand’s Income
Tax Department has decided that the
daily newspaper taken by the man on the
land is in the nature of a necessity in ms
occupation, so that newspaper subscrip-
tions are a deductible item. I wonder it
the tax commissioner knows what I know.
Many country rags which depend on
advertisements to keep them afloat dont
take a farmer off their list even if he
never pays his sub.
* * * *
“Slim Jim”: There’s a bloke in Perth
of similar stuff to “Clooter’s” Texan who
hobnailed his way over a car parked on
a pedestrian crossing (B. 18/l/’5O). Step-
ping from the kerb to catch an approach-
ing tram, he found himself almost under
the wheels of a car which had accelerated
to pass the tram before it stopped. A
leap for the pavement saved him, but bis
soul was somewhat seared when the tram-
driver failed to see him beyond the car
and the tram rattled on. In the midst 01
all this mortification he noticed that the
car had pulled up a few hundred yards
down the road. No doubt he still thinks
the couple of quid the magistrate fine
him was a small price to pay for th
gong he hung on that car-driver.
* * * *
“Quilliam-street”: An Adelaide
woman, in a letter to the “Advertiser,
intentionally or otherwise stakes a claim
to the title of Australia’s clumsiest
female. Discussing the site of the King
George V statue, she wrote that if it were
placed on North Terrace it would pr° '
ably prove as inconvenient as that o
Edward VII, “which I trip oyer every
time I pass.” It is some time since I i aS
walked past King Edward’s statue, a
bronze figure on a granite base--th
whole thing about 25ft. high—and
haven’t tripped over it even once. Any*
one who admits to doing so habitual y
would be just as likely to trip over it d 1
were placed in the middle of the Mm'
larbor Plain.
A MAIDEN SPEECH.
I should like to express myself, Mr. Speaker,
with due deference,
In regard to existing circumstances which bear
upon a weighty matter,
Having, as they have —and will have —multi-
tudinous reference
To our great Empire and this deliberative
Chamber, as much to the former as to the
latter.
For in the elation of celebration of the con-
summation
Of the liberation of the population from
socialisation
We have heard with trepidation the intonation
Of that abomination of desolation, the Empire
oration.
And therefore I categorically challenge anyone
to deny, what is undeniable:
That, after the disembowelling operations Mr.
Attlee’s Government had such a bout of,
What was left of the Empire that was put-in-
your-eye-able
Pious and pieful old gentlemen at public
dinners had previously talked us out of.
He would be a bold man, Mr. Speaker, who
took a fundamental attitude
When the flag goes up that inspires us in peace
and leads us to war;
I merely want to draw the attention of the
House to the endless streams of platitude
Which have inflamed in so many people the
the belief that the Empire is a bit of a bore.
I don’t want to occupy any more of the time
of the House, Mr. Speaker,
Nevertheless, however, I feel I have some show
of reason
For saying, if the ties of blood are not to grow
weaker and weaker,
Anyone who speaks badly about the Empire
should be charged with high treason,
And by speaking badly I mean hamming and
stuttering and stammering,
And vainly indulging in the vanity of vain
repetition,
And howling and whooping and hawking and
harping and hammering,
And taking two hours to propose one simple
proposition.
For, as you know, Mr. Speaker, Parliament is
now on the air,
And now I shall close with just this one re-
mark :
Remember that, rather than feel it a cross they
had to bear,
Listeners would prefer the Empire to be a bit
of a lark.
N.S.W
SWILLIAM.


on“Se to 0116
“Plop”: There is at least one public
memorial to Melba in Australia (B.
22/2/’5O). It’s in Sydney Town Hall —
a plaque 6ft. x 4ft. fixed midway along
the of the concert-hall. The
design shows three modernistic figures in
bas-relief: on the left a man, half-draped,
plays a stringed instrument, a hind looks
across at him from the right, and in the
centre is a nude with hands upraised and
her face in the attitude of high “C.” One
Town Hall warden recalls that when he
first saw the plaque after it was unveiled
in 1941 his offsider exclaimed “Well,
Harry, you and I saw Melba singing in
many different costumes, but we never
saw her singing in that.” The plaque,
which won a £250 prize given by Lord
Lurgan in appreciation of the diva’s en-
couragement in his own career as a lyric
baritone, is the work of Arthur J. Murch,
who won this year’s Archibald Prize.
* * * *
“Plynew”; The rivalry of two news-
papers in a Maoriland town received a
fillip recently when a touring hypnotist
stayed over for an extended season. In
reviewing his show one rag observed there
were probably stooges among the subjects
who nightly volunteered from the
audience. The following night, when
Packing off his subjects to their seats, the
hypnotist learned that one of them was
rrom the offending paper. The victim
clerical staff,’ not the edi-
nal, but that didn’t make it any less
nm B hlm t 0 be told later that he had
fnr • , ais^e cad ing for three cheers
ior paper.
(B“n^ a l Ser ” : A * “Cauboy” says
in Melhn 50 ’ the 1950 season
t e u ? e promises to be a corker,
ordinf h nties havm 8 decided to repeat
still anothp onCertS four times and add
for the -fiT’ 1° the Problem arises
these orsl n i dredS °l P ersons who attend
but h ° rdeals > ? ot because they want to
hl tT* th6y think ought to,
ine the « n 6 a B °° d s^ee P without arous-
neLborf a C f° n i >r c °ntempt of their
rs. A friend who has been attend-
a iife°who h ‘ VOOS for decades with
mS. h J passionately fond of
J c used to have a fell struggle
onlv'ToV^ 0118 * 1 the P ro g ra mme,
hishe-H vake f up suddenly to find
shonlHp resting on the wrong
that Hp h €ar discovered
Pass onM d devel °P ed an ability to
with his head
|L ctiy Perpendicular posi-
il V There was no doubt about
VIT f M lon B er h ad to
temr. ?° £ amuse ment or con-
whcn i rom stern er music-lovers
™ ke U P- This year he
expression as w e T
tons qualify f or , he hiehes^reaches
the th mus^so 0f Hs , who find
th ey have tn U . nb f ear u abl y delicious that
-» trusts* eyes lest 11)6,1
abounwf varrt? y i dney s s P ,in t’-strcct is
4 0ft.) fro m y kerh t°n nB i. a u d 13 paCes (say
the lower enri iJ kerb ;11 runs from
A single tram / Bent * s treet to Pitt-street.
of it, and anv -a* fUns down tbe mi ddle
the comedv ay ,^ ow y° u can witness
Tram iV aw the other day;
12.31 to 12*35 S nm in T S P ri ng-street from
11 sat tram 175 s’ m ' n Immedi ately behind
each kerb Snrim, k - S were P' ark ed on
street. From nf JS ng a two-way-traffic
board was abonP^ car to tram foot-
pace the traffic had f aCeS ’ throu 8 h which
°ate matters a to pass. To compli-
on the Sprine-Pin o SCd frui t' ba rrow stands
w» While 1 watched
15 vehicles were 1 tlm ?- as man y as
were held up waiting for some-
* thing to happen, drivers pulled out and
tried to get through on the wrong side,
frequently meeting vehicles coming against
them and having frantically to try to get
back into their own line, which usually had
closed up in the meantime, tempers became
frayed and the short street was blocked for
minutes. Tram 1760 departed, 1758 took
its place at 12.35 and sat there till 12.41,
1821 waited to move in and behind 1821
waited 1805. Tram crews stood about and
dispassionately watched the succeeding
jams of traffic.
I was informed that it was part of a
scheme to reduce tram congestion at the
Quay.
“Now that you're in, would you mind passing the soap?"
“Jobber”: The Bulletin bench (B.
1/2/’50)? I was sitting on it one day
when McMahon gently pushed Henry
Lawson out of his office. Henry sat down
beside me; I addressed him by name
and he said, “You are a bush boy, aren’t
you?” I told him I had been to Lake
Eliza, of which he had written a verse
describing it as “the lonely pub in the
mulga scrub.” He dismissed Lake Eliza
and gave me a lecture on the snares and
pitfalls of a great city!
“Indeed this is not SeavieW Hostel — it's a private residence."
“Nakhoda”: Scarcely a day passes but
some great world statesman reaffirms his
unshaken confidence in the United
Nations, and scarcely a day passes but I
pass a brass-plate on a Melbourne build-
ing which bears the legend “League of
Nations Publications Department —fifth
floor.” That is all that is left in this
great southern city of a great world
movement which stirred the highest hopes
in my breast and in the breasts of mil-
lions of others. No, now I come to think
of it, there is another. The League gave
its endorsement to a rat poison, and it
was a very good rat poison. I tried it
myself in an old house which has since
been demolished, and where the rodents
used to tramp up and down stairs like a
herd of elephants ; it was most efficacious.
That is why I still have a feeling of
affection for the League of Nations. In
20 years' time I feel sure that there will
be at least one person in the world who
will have the same affectionate memories
round the United Nations. In the
“Argus” this morning I read a reply to
a young lass who wanted an American
pen-friend around the age of 14. She was
referred to the United Nations office in
Sydney, which, apparently, performs this
tender service at the moderate charges of
sixpence and a shilling,
♦ * * ♦
“Gasca”; An Englishman, newly-
arrived, was standing on the deck of a
ship at Circular Quay, gazing at the neon-
lit skyline. Said he, “I have heard
that you have some strange animals in
Australia, but I didn’t suspect you had
any as strange as that.” Following the
direction of his gaze, I noticed a well-
known dairy-products advertisement. It
showed the outline of a cow, and, be-
neath, there flashed in succession the
words “Butter,” “Bacon” and “Cheese.”
* * * *
George Beesley: Many railway
students wonder why the Sydney Rail-
way Company is so often loosely and
erroneously referred to as the Sydney
Railroad and Tramway Company, or the
Sydney Railway and Tramway Company,
and other titles. Even that usually-correct
publication the Commonwealth Year-
Book, in about 15 of its yearly issues
from the first issue in 1908, called it the
Sydney Railroad and Tramway Company.
In an article in the “Sydney Morning
Herald,” December 26, 1942, it was
styled the Sydney Railway and Tram-
way Company and associated with the
start of the early trams in Sydney. It
appears that in November, 1848, the pro-
moters of the Railway Company issued
a prospectus in which the proposed title
was to be the Sydney Tramroad and
Railway Company. However, the pro-
moters and proprietors (shareholders)
changed their minds, and in the Act of
Incorporation, October 10, 1849, the
company is legally styled The Sydney
Railway Company. The prospectus has
evidently confused some subsequent
writers. It is a pity that this date,
October 10, 1849, was allowed to pass
unmentioned in the Sydney Press~ on
October 10, 1949, as it was the first Aus-
tralian railway centenary. Perhaps this
short par may make amends for the omis-
sion and be a slight tribute to the im-
portant part played by railways in the last
100 years of Australian development.
* * *
“Bo”: It is only lately that inventors
apparently having exhausted—temporarily
at least —their stock of labor-saving
ideas in the kitchen for the housewife,
nave taken to giving her lord a long-
overdue spin. This in general is all to
the good, but—dammit!—-there’s a limit.
Time was when my Sabbath morn was
made even more gloriously soporific by
the mellifluous sound of lawn-
mowers being pushed by the
enthusiastic gardeners who sur-
round my suburban menage. It
was a most soothing sound,
rendered more so by the com-
fortable thought that someone
else was getting corns on his
chest pushing the thing. But
now the early part of my day
of rest is made horrific and my
drowsiness completely shattered
by a sound akin to a miniature
air-raid siren going ceaselessly. It
emanates from one of those new-
fangled electric mowers that
look like a cross between a
carpet-sweeper and the dome of
a locomotive. The whine of the
motor bears a striking resem-
blance to that emitted by James
McGirr about “vested in-
terests” every time his party loses an-
other by-election. My hopes that a
silencer will be invented for either
are, I admit, extremely tenuous.
* * ♦ *
“The Ghoul”: I second “Jasby’s”
nomination of the world’s most modest
writer (B. 11/1/ ’5O). The publishers of
the block desk-calendars are almost as
anonymous. After some effort, I got
their name and wrote appreciatively, ask-
ing the name of the compiler. But they
would only say that he was well known,
and “wished to remain anonymous” ; and
that, unless I pressed for his identity, they
would not tell ms! I have found these
quotations most useful in after-dinner
speeches. There is one which meets
almost every imaginable situation.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The rising price of
pepper and the reports of fortunes being
made by speculators in that commodity
must make bitter reading to a group of
London financiers who, in 1935, attempted
to corner the world’s pepper supply.
Theif plan was to buy 3000 tons of
peppercorn, force up the price and make
a profit before the next crop was mar-
keted. They were hopelessly out in their
estimate, but kept on buying when the
original target was reached without
markedly affecting the price. They were
still buying long after they had passed
the stage where speculation turned to
gambling, and when they were finally
halted by bankruptcy they had contracted
to buy 12,800 tons of pepper —actually a
few hundred tons in excess of the reli-
ably estimated total supply jn existence,
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: It seems the 200,000
Eurasians of Java want a national
home of their own in Dutch New
Guinea. Under the Dutch there
was not much discrimination against
the Eurasians ; they were much less liked
by the natives, and the stock comic char-
acter in Javanese, drama was always a
Eurasian. Yet one of the greatest heroes
in the fight for independence against the
Dutchman was Pieter Erberfeld, a half-
caste who, in the 17th century, raised the
banner of revolt, and with the assistance
of the native rajahs set out to massacre
all the whites and re-establish the old
dynasty of the sultans. He might have
succeeded if his girl-friend hadn’t be-
trayed him. The penalty was drastic, A
dozen of his fellow-conspirators were
hanged, drawn and quartered on the
Koningsplein at Batavia, and Pieter was
broken on the wheel, branded “traitor
with hot irons, his body cut open, his
heart and liver thrown in his face and his
head cut off and stuck on a pike —all
according to the canons of justice of
those times. The head was still on its
pike at the Old Gate at Batavia when 1
was last there. It earned the suP 61 '^ 1 "
tious veneration of the natives, who be-
lieve the rebel to have been a giant;
successive coats of whitewash through the
centuries having so enlarged it that it
would fit the frame of a man of at
least 12ft.
THE IRRESISTIBLE.
Inst what it was that caused the major shindy,
AnTfipr to bolt, is anybody’s guess.
He miehfsolke it that he’d be demurring
At ever corning back to Dais, again.
No doubt at first, enraged, she had decided
Impulsively to let her lord go hang,
But later on, the thought that he provided
Her free meal-ticket smote her with a pang.
Her need for urgency became apparent
When whipped by that one haunting phrase:
“Too late!”
r 0 tarry yet another day she daren t,
And so she sought him via the Fourth Estate.
Helen of Troy, whose pulchritude succeeded
In launching, so they say, a thousand ships,
No other evident allurement needed
Than that supplied by hair and eyes and lips.
And Sheba, she the gracious and the queenly,
Who sought the soft enslavement of a king,
Approached that very pleasant task serenely,
With confidence that she had everything.
But Dais., far shrewder than her regal sisters,
Had no recourse to smile nor yet to tear,
Nor shoals of minatory legal “blisters.”
She simply played the lack of bottled beer.
Enticement such as that to be forgoing
He must regard as close to sacrilege.
Yes, he'll b'c scorching back, will Bertie, knowing
A cold, inviting bottle’s “on the fridge.”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.
“Hamer” looks back:
Apart from Archibald himself and Tom Mc-
Mahon, the first Bulletin man I met was Alex
Montgomery. He was short-story sub-editor in
the 1890’s, and a considerable writer himself; a
small, slight and amiable chap whose personality
contrasted quaintly with the fierceness of his
stories, in which “atavism” seemed to be a per-
vading theme. We collaborated for a time —my
ideas and his story-writing experience—but it
didn’t work very well. But Alex deserves men-
tion as the obstetrician who helped in the birth
of the Rudd family. Steele Rudd’s earliest
contributions were on the lines of the stage
melodramas popular at the time. The Bulletin
was profoundly uninterested in the heroes and
.heroines but very interested in the lively charac-
ters of the comic relief. A. H. Davis’s yarns
were bought and cut down to that, and the
Rudd family was born, Archie probably did
the first cutting, but afterwards the work was
Monty’s, and before long Davis took the hint.
That was not his first experience of sub-editing.
An aquatic enthusiast, Davis used to write
articles for a Brisbane paper using the nom-
de-plume of “Steel Rudder.” A sub-editor,
finding that the final “er” would be a carry-
over to the next line, did not see the point in
paying a penny-farthing for that; so he cut it.
Arthur accepted the name of Steele Rudd and
stuck to it.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Solitude”; Seventyfiver had gone over
the border to bring back a mob of
wethers, and, he being two days overdue
on the return trip, I stopped a travelling
ute to make inquiries. “Yes, there’s an
old bloke with a mob about 15 miles out,”
he told me. “Might be him.” “In a blue
flannel with a grey patch?” “In a black
jinker,” he replied, “with seven dogs.”
I shook my head, whistled' Blue, and
rode on. It turned out to be Seventy-
fiver, however. He was stamping along
behind the mob, shooing or swearing as
the occasion required, while from the
jinker six mongs eyed his efforts criti-
cally. The seventh walked dejectedly in
the dust. “Cripes, I missed Blue,” greeted
the old bloke sorrowfully. “Had t’ borrer
these blankers. Here, speak up, Tige.”
The mong ignored him, and walked to-
wards the jinker. “Aw, well, he’s yapped
twice awready t’day,” sighed Seventyfiver,
stopping to chuck the mong in. “No use
’spectin’ ’im t’ do it again.” He looked
over the collection. “Here, you ain’t done
more’n an hour this mornin’,” he de-
cided, hauling a black-and-tan out by the
scruff, “Go ’way there.” The dog trotted
off, and the old bloke turned urgently to
me. “Cripes, don’t use y’r whip, will y’! ”
he said. “They won’t stand y’ usin’ a
whip, this bunch. Most of ’em’s done
their shift f’r t’ day, all except that big
ginger bloke, an’ I been keepin’ him f’r
the yardin’ t’night.” He walked across
to prod on a stoppage, called to the jinker
nag, and came on wearily. “Bloke back
there was tellin’ me the labor trouble’s
spreadin’ somethin’ awful these days;
an’ by cripes, Sol,” he snorted dis-
gustedly, “I reckon ’e must be right.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I shouldn’t have stopped ;
I was late for work as it was, but my
conscience wouldn’t let me pass a snake
that size without doing something about
it. As usual, there wasn’t a stick to be
found, and even if I’d been game enough
to grab his tail and crack him—which I
wasn’t—the method would not have been
practical, since that end and two or three
feet attached to it were hidden in the
long grass by the roadside. But Joe
didn’t seem to be in a hurry to move,
and down by the creek I’d passed there
were plenty of long, springy branches
from the big box that somebody had
fallen. I hopped on the bike and vigor-
ously pedalled the hundred yards or so.
The long black ’un was still basking on
the warm gravel when I came racing
back. He didn’t move as I sneaked on
him. Bang! The love pat that took him
behind the shoulder-blades splintered the
stick. But no convulsive writhing fol-
lowed the blow ; there was no squirming,
no wriggling and no biting at the injured
part. The wriggler had been as dead as
a dry wedding before I hit him! Late
though I was, I couldn’t resist the temp-
tation to set the bait again, taking care to
arrange the head and neck in a realistic
pose, with the mutilated back hidden in
the grass as before. I’d give a quid to
know just how many mugs there are in
this world —beside me and the motorist
who left his skids in the gravel as he
evidently swerved off the road to run
over the doubly-dead reptile.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: In Rupanyup we heard
of a fencing job out on the Minyip'-road,
but were warned that the cocky was tight
and a slave-driver. For want of some-
thing better to do we went out to see
about it and struck a sandy-haired cove
in a jinker. “We’re lookin’ for Hungry
Horlan,” we said. “Know him?” “Yair,”
he replied. “We was told he has some
fencin’?” “Believe he has,” Papse. Then
Mat: “You know much about Horlan?”
“Aw, a bit. Why?” “Well, a bloke in
Rupanyup reckoned he was hard t’ get
on with?” “Daresay he is.” “How’s he
on payin’?” The sandy one grinned.
“He won’t pay mor’n he has t’,” he said.
“Bit of a nigger-driver, ain’t he?” Mat
asked. “He’ll make y’ work ; too right,”
was the reply. Pause. “Oh, well,” Mat
said, “can’t do no harm seein’ him.
Where’ll we find him?” “YTe lookin’ at
him!” An hour later we had our fare-
well drink in Rupanyup and headed
south. As Mat put it, “I don’t mind
“This should get us into shape for Kosciusko.”
workin’ for a tight bloke or driver; but
a bloke that’ll have y’ on in small things’ll
have y’ on in big ones.”
* * * *
“Graemac”: The wheat in the 90-acres
was a bit too green to head, and we’d
sewed all the bags, so it looked as
though we’d be putting in the afternoon-
on the spine. As the temperature was
around the 100-mark, somebody sug-
gested a cool-off in the windmill tank.
Of course, we were all in favor, but the
general hand wouldn’t hear of it. “You’ll
bust the tank,” he said. “The displace-
ment of the water \vill put a hole in the
side, and the suction could pull you
through the hole,” he warned. And such
is the power of the “scientific” mind —
for the g.h, had the reputation of being
knowledgeable that nobody seemed
anxious after that to tempt Providence
in the tank.
* * * *
“Wonk”: I’d caught my bag and was
walking leisurely back downstream when
I met the studious-looking cove. He
was seated on a small bank reading a
folded newspaper, while two trout-rods
and various paraphernalia lay around in
orderly profusion. “Worms are useful
early in the season,” he recited dreamily,
looking at me as though I were just an-
other dogwood in the scenery, “but when
the grasshoppers come it will be found that
this bait secures greater success. Er . . .
what do you use?” he inquired mildly.
“A fly?” He shook his head. “Ah, but
you won’t do any good that way. Not at
this period,” he said slowly. “Now, I
have it here somewhere. Let me see.”
He turned to the paper searching.
“Flies . . . flies . . . Ah, yes, here we
are. ‘Flies are recommended when fish
are feeding on the small moths that hover
over the stream.’ You see?” he mur-
mured. “The fish are not ready yet for
flies. You can’t go against the rules, you
know. I have been studying the subject
rather closely of late. Nothing like a
little expert knowledge in any enterprise.
Books, I say. Books. They allow those
giants of wisdom and experience to pass
on their colossal learning to others. That
is,” he added, suspiciously eyeing my be-
wildered mug, “if one has the ability and
resourcefulness to avail oneself of such
uncommonsense.” “Eh? Y-yair,” I
managed. “But why don’tcha hop in an’
get a few?” He, glanced at me pityingly;
then with an extravagant gesture un-
covered his watch. “I shall,” he re-
plied. “I shall, in just ten minutes. No
use wasting valuable time ; and it says
here,” he tapped the paper, “that the fish
do not come on the bite until 20 minutes
past six.”
* * * *
“M.S.”: Most dingoes are cowards,
but occasionally one finds a dog that,
when pushed, will put up a scrap for him-,
self. “Watch their tails,” I remember
was among the early instructions handed
out to me by the old dogger. And he
was pretty right. If, after trailing a
trapped dog, one finds him with his tail
down, he is usually safe enough to belt
over the head; but only recently the
dogger found one of the other sort. He
had trailed his quarry to an awkward
spot just over the creek, where he was
backed by a high wall, and protected on
each side by rocks. The dingo was
awaiting him, tail high and moving
slowly from side to side. The old bloke
hadn’t a rifle. He picked up a length of
stringybark sapling about wrist-thickness
and advanced cautiously. The dog edged
out to meet him. Watching his chance,
the trapper made a swipe which the
dingo avoided as he grabbed the weapon.
In a matter of seconds it was bitten
through. The dogger
retired hastily, and next
time collected himself
two lengths, one for
each hand. Then, as
the dingo grabbed his
left-handed miss, his
right landed smashingly.
It was only a loin blow,
but it grounded the
quarry ready for the
quick knockout.
* * *
“Rooster”: “Max”
has missed the point
on the question of
avian color - sense (B.
28/12/’49). In addi-
tion, his own color-
sense appears to be a
trifle confused; “in-
credible purple on
plum-headed finches” is
still not violet. Violet
is a distinct color;
purple is a mixture of
red and blue. The point
I tried to make clear
was that blue is not a
favored color in bird-
life ; when it is found,
either in plumage or
food, it is bright. There are excep-
tions, but from travels in Brazil,
South Africa and West Australia, Werth
lists 159 flowers visited by birds, and 84
p.c. of these are red. Try an experiment
on a domestic hen. Set up a strong lamp
in a dark room so as to shine through
a prism and cast a spectrum on the floor.
Scatter an equal number of grains in each
band of light and let the hen have a free
run. She will peck up nearly all the
grains in the red, orange, yellow and
green bands, but very few in the blue,
and none from the violet. v
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Few birds
build stranger nests than those of the
grebes. This season the rains have kept
Captain Fyans’ swamp at Geelong full,
and among other aquatic birds to build
there were three black-throated grebes.
On wading out to one of the nests I
found it to be nothing more than a
floating raft made of the stalks of water-
weeds piled in rounded form, the brim
only an inch or so above the surface. In
the centre of this frail ark was a hollow
with three eggs, stained a dirty yellow
through being constantly wet. As I
approached the sitting bird she became
agitated and fussed about, pulling up
weeds and tucking them under her before
she slid off and submerged. An observer
of the nest has since told me the young
swam away immediately they were
hatched. Few things in nature are more
charming than to see a grebe swim-
ming among the reeds accompanied by
her little argonauts darting hither and
thither. On a homestead by a Murray
billabong each year we used to watch a
mother grebe at the slightest alarm
gather up her two chicks and swim off,
one tucked under each wing.
* * * «
“Matala” (New Britain, T.N.G.): Im-
portation here of bufo, the giant toad
not only settled the caterpillar plague
which had been playing havoc with our
vital sweet potato crops but sent up the
fatality statistics of the pythons. Coming
home one afternoon I saw a python sur-
rounded by about two dozen bufos, the
largest weighing no more than 21b. When
Joe struck, those toads on the sides and
to the rear would jump and land squarely
on his body. Joe would shift to attack
them, and then pounds of toad would land
on him from the other direction. I ex-
pected the python to make a run for it,
but apparently he thought he could
handle the situation. With every jump the
toads would eject a watery substance,
This jump-and-eject technique stretched
Joe’s 6ft. 9in. out in an hour. Measure-
ment by Rabone. Seeing Joe flat on
the ground and apparently knowing all
danger was past, bufo staged a mass
jumping effort and bounced the last bit
of life out of the big fellow. Then one
by one they left the battle area and
hopped into the kaukau. Joe provided
a meal for my Sepik laborers. Our
dogs and cats studiously avoid friend
bufo, but he receives a warm welcome
from me when he hops into the lounge
every night, for he mops up huge quanti-
ties of mosquitoes and insects.
* * * ♦
“Carlyle”: Don’t know how far sea-
breezes waft in inland Victoria (B.
4/1/’SO), but I’ve seen seagulls riding the
waves on one of a chain of salt-lakes lying
north-west of Natimuk (Vic.), which, as
the seagull flies, is more than 120 miles
from the coast. Incidentally, the manner
in which the water dries off from these
lakes is curious. Instead of receding
evenly from all sides, the water-level re-
mains practically unchanged on the west-
ern bank, but ebbs away a considerable
distance from the shallow eastern shore,
leaving decreasing semicircles traced in
minute white shells as the lake dries off.
This gives the whole lake a lopsided ap-
pearance; a phenomenon which moved
Major Mitchell (who discovered that part
of western Victoria in 1836) to comment
in his diary: “This is certainly a re-
markable portion of the earth’s surface,
and might rather have belonged to that
of the moon as seen through a telescope.”
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Touching on the height
at which the brolga flies when on a long
journey (B. 8/2/’SO). In 1944 I was a
passenger in a Yank transport plan 6
flying across n.-w. Queensland; 'a line
of specks ahead soon became visible as a
flock of the big grey birds on one of their
journeys. Particularly striking was that
slow yet powerful sweep of their wings
I asked the pilot to give me the altimeter
reading ; he passed back word that it was
9800 ft. Later, when talking to him
at the mess hut, he told me that he had
seen many flocks of them on the wing,
once as high as 11,000 ft. He also
added that, while you might meet eagles
and condors at a greater height than that
above sea-level when flying over mountain
regions, he knew of no other bird m
the world which travelled so far above
the ground when on a long journey.
* * * *
“Flinders Range”: Old Tom has always
had an outspoken opinion of the bush-
manship of “young fellers these
He, of course, has never been busheu"
knows the run inside out; put him down
blindfolded, night or day, and he’d kno
where he was. Then young Blue otter
to bet that he could produce a photo»o
a scene on the run that Thomas would
be able to locate. The old bloke wa
wary at first, but when the conditions a
been argued over several times for P°
sible traps he ventured to bet a P oU
of tobacco. Blue got the photo-a pa*
card-size enlargement—out of ms s ' -
and handed it over without a word, wi -
the mob craned their necks. For tw
minutes the silence was broken only j
the plunging of Tom’s Adam’s a PP Ie
he turned the print this way and in .
Finally he shuffled his false teeth
place and mumbled out “Looks hke t
bit o’ tableland out in the gibber pad ■
But it ain’t; tableland’s east o
creek, on y’r right lookin’ north,
looks like —aw, hell, I dunno !” An
handed over the snap and the tobai •
Blue kept his mouth shut while the m
argued. At last the boss came in. „
that tableland in the gibber P ac jn ’
he stated after a close look, “but tn> .
largement’s printed wrong way r
Creek’s on the right, ’stead of the;
Makes y’ drunk t’ look at the thins-
Tom felt better after that.
THE CURLEWS.
The country that the curlews see
Under the moon
Is not the hard white landscape we
Behold at noon.
With the twilight comes a change;
Valleys deepen in the Range.
Slowly a transmutation creeps
From tree to tree.
Clothing the last veiled pinnacle
In mystery,
Crowning every knoll and spar
With a giant golden star.
Intimate becomes the light;
The heady scent
From wild clematis, pale and frail,
Too quickly spent.
A subtle quickening, a fear
Of presences that crowd in near.
A muted festival of dark
Wild joyous things
Born of flash of light on dew
And beating wings.
Some hidden beauty, rapid, sweet,
Trampling the grass with shining feet.
We may not guess its meaning, though
Birds on the plain
Translate its message nightly in
Poignant refrain
And farmers’ children, creeping by
The scrub's dark edge, for hours lie
Gleaning a loveliness that they
Cannot impart
Mot knowing it as a message from
A country’s heart —
Wistful song of an inner land
That only the curlews understand.
QUEENSLAND.
E.M. ENGLAND.


the gannet sanctuary.
a, ,«„ we came .gaiTtolhe womart store
Kr. B « S 0 S«Vie‘d«w white
g £•&««&•*£ «»!•
iLo rnmbers paced upon the open bay,
A stV gTay, mottled sky despoiled the sun
Tree on the point stood sharp against the fray,
Socks and hills rolled back in sombre dun.
“You’ll never reach the Cape; the tide is high.
"Giveus the permit: we can only try.
Sharp wind, keen sounds, bright sun between
the clouds, . ,
The sea’s unending motion at our feet,
The half-unpleasant odor of rotting wood, .
Grey shingle, seaweed, glassy sands, the shrouds
Of far-flung creamy spray along the beat.
There was no time for pause, no room to stare
At shell or pool, or venture past the dim
Pnrtals of mystery a# an echoing cave.
The sea’s haste was our own. We fled the snare
Of sea and time alike, beneath the rim
Of strange striated cliffs; we fell before^
The hungry onsweep of a sudden wave,
We ran on flat, firm sands, or sank in pools.
Until we reached Black Reef. And there the
Of open seas pounding at hill and cave
Assailed our ears in storm of angry sound.
Gulls screamed above the rocks; and far ahead
A cliff-shelf freighted with the gannets gleamed
White as a snowbound tableland; while round
Our bleeding feet the waters ran pale red.
Shamefaced, returning, bound to admit defeat,
Fearing the woman’s “See, I told you so!
Half-angry at the tide’s long slow retreat,
Inwardly marvelling at our will to go.
NEW ZEALAND. MARJORIE HAWLEY.
« # * *
“S.E.”: Bert had a score to settle with
the old ’roo in the gully. The big grey
had broken his fences, ruined a large
corner of successive crops and, after
many months, was still at it. Several
times Bert had challenged him to combat,
but the ’roo had ripped open one of his
best sheep-dogs, and on another memor-
able occasion had gained the river, and
in a deep hole had drowned his two re-
maining kelpies and maimed his runner
Bert set to work getting hold of a
heavier dogs and bided his time. It was
dogs the ’roo had beaten, and it was dogs
that would eventually pull him down. Bert
was set on it. He built up his team, took
them practising on smaller ’roos further
out, then, considering them at last good
enough, ventured forth to pull on the
champion. None but Bert witnessed the
battle, but dropping in a couple of hours
later, Dick stepped round the carcass of
an enormous ’roo and found the victor
patching up his team. They were a gory
mess. There was a dog with a side rip,
one torn from neck to shoulder, one
skinned from shoulder to toes, and one
that looked as though he’d been under a
scarifier. Bert paused in his sewing
operations, glanced round the waiting
casualties, and heaved a sigh. “Hey,
Dick,” he requested. “I wonder if y’d
just canter over t’ Mother Grady’s for
us, would y’, an’ ask her for a loan o’
that sewing-machine of hers?”
Hallo, Jim —been here long ?”
thrrw l ' t *?? er ’i I’m humping the knot
the Pllliga (N-S.W.) when the
mpnf nS ° ut and I si B ht a small settle-
ment and a pub. When I got into the
mnrr, i W^ls^ere( l Moke was sitting
ca ™ p e t ly . on a and I said; “If we
have B nni W °-J? eers for nine P er >ce y’ can
out tbp f Wltb , me ” got up, peered
the DasJa° nt f d u° r ’ Cast a down
the LmT at . tbe rear > then walked to
it and nnu !: aised the fla P, went behind
m?self P^ ed . tW °. beers - Disgusted to find
the 9d n° U Vk 2 for the Pelican I threw
p£kef”£“ the . C <? Unter - “ Put 11 m y’r
’ be saic h an’ have another beer.”
These were all the words he spoke, despite
my advances. He seemed rather nervous,
and his movements were hurried as he
pulled three more beers each, refusing
was fcst tjme rd struck
a publican on a bender in his own pub
and J enjoyed it, though he didn’t look
like a publican. After the fifth beer there
was a noise at the back ; he hurriedly
washed out our glasses, put them on the
shelf and sapped under the flap to his
sgat Qn tbe bench. j n ca me a spruce
young man who said, “Well, I got it fixed.
Anyone come?” The whiskered one in-
dicated me. The spruce man said, “Yes?”
A great light had dawned on me by this
time and I said, “I’m travellin’. Only
got ninepence. Does it get two beers?”
“No,” he said. “Oh, well,” I said, “I’ll
wait till I get to Coonabarabran I ain’t
thirsty enough t drink with the flies.
x wo m iles along the track the whiskered
one caU gb t me up where I roosted under
a tree “I got one more,” he said. “That
was the one he promised me for mmdm
the bar while he fixed up the kitchen
stove. I always travel on me pat, mate,
so I’ll push on.” I never saw him again.
* * * *
“Bo”: In the middle of the long drive
j ea( jj ng f rom Lidgett’s road-gate to the
shed in which he kept his ancient utility
stood a straggly peppercorn. Because her
grandmother or someone had planted it
there back in the ’seventies, Mrs Lidegtt
wouldn t have it shifted. When she
learned to drive the ute, however, she
suggested to her spouse that he remove it,
but Lidgett was adamant. And there it
remained. It was Maling, who had the
block next to his, who chatted Lidgett
about his obstinacy. “Why, you could
drive straight into the shed instead of
taking that round-about way around the
feedshed and the kennels like you have
to do . now,” he argued. Lidgett looked
at him, a quizzical look in his eye. “Yair ;
but, you see, Ben, that there tree comes
in handy. When I come home from town
now in the ute the drive around all them
obstacles sobers me up before I go in-
side. If the tree was down, with a straight
drive in, I’d probably go clean through
the end of the blanky shed!”
* * * *
“Sackfair”: Cousin Charlie swept
across the farm like a willy-willy in
reverse. His path was strewn not with
destruction but reconstruction. The
homestead gate, which used to bury its
nose in the ground and bitterly contest
every inch of its opening arc, suddenly
became a tractable thing that a child
could manipulate. Mum’s copper ceased
to leak into the fire. The tankstand piers
lost their Pisa look and became models
of perpendicularity. It became possible
to lean back in any chair without having
to leap-off at the first creak and bang the
dowels in with the heel of your hand,
And still Charlie went his happy way:
enjoying his holiday by working like a
nigger. One morning he watched Dad
feeding the pigs. There were
two sties; the swill was
poured in the closest trough
and the young grunters came
surging through a gap in the
partition. Dad returned home
from town in time to feed
up again. Suddenly his voice
roared across the gathering
dusk, the unnerving cry of a
distressed man: “Where’s
that Charlie? Where is he?
Gorstruth, he’s ruined every-
thing ! ” The clan had
gathered when Charlie strode
into the circle. “What’s up?”
he asked in some surprise;
“I fixed the sties. There
wasn’t a paling to nail back
over that hole, so I pulled off
seven or eight and spread
’em. Not even a sucker could
get from one sty to the other
n o w.” His explanation
seemed to be the match on
the dynamite. “Of course
they can’t, you dope!” (Dad
hadn’t looked so savage since
the shire rate notice came.)
“You’ve ruined me gauge.
Now I’ll have to buy scales
and muck about weighin’
every pig.” He groaned at
the Paradise lost. “And all
I used to have to do was
watch for the one that got
too big to get through the hole—-and I’d
know he’d scale eighty pound dead when
I took him into the market!”
* * ♦ ♦
“Gabo”: The bags of wheat stood in
the paddocks in thousands, but Dad was
plainly upset when he found the carters
had tipped out two into the wheel-track
to get the lorry out of the bog. He let
them see he took a poor view of such sin-
ful waste. “It’s hot the wheat I mind,”
he kept saying to Dave. “It’s the principle
of the thing.” Dave, tired of the recita-
tive, s’posed they had to get out some-
how, and laughed. Things were very
black for the rest of that day, but they
brightened up when they pulled into
Dave’s fine paddock of Yalta on Sunday
morning. Full of business, Dave filled
the bags to the top, and dumped them
well. Baggy, put on that morning,
wouldn’t need to put much more wheat
in those before he sewed them up! When
Dave and Dad were on the last round that
evening Dad exclaimed “What’s that
around that cove; is it dust or some-
thing?” Dave looked towards the line
where Baggy was working, and reckoned
at first it was a swarm of insects ; then he
saw against the light it was wheat flying
"Now trot along and do YOUR homework , too.”
in the air. Instead of filling the bags,
Baggy was throwing some out so that-
he could sew more. Next day when Dave
picked up eight bags of wheat off the
ground he explained to Dad, over and
over again, he didn’t mind the wheat, it
was the cow throwin’ good food away
when there were a lot of other poor cows
starving. Dad burst out laughing.
“What’s funny?” Dave asked with a red
face. nothin’,” Dad said hastily.
“It’d make you laugh, though, sometimes,
what these coves get up to.”
♦ ♦ * *
“Betcha”: When it comes to appe-
tite, can any other animal beat the easy
adaptability of the fox? With a dead car-
cass about, Johnny takes his feed the
easy way. With none, he hies himself
to the nearest chook-house, trap-line or
rabbit-warren. Any of the smaller birds
he can grab furnish an item on his menu ;
parrots, magpies, ducks, pigeons, found
dead or alive, eagerly accepted, and fish
are a delicacy he will get wet feet over.
A feed of wild blackberries gives him a
change of diet, or slipping through the
orchard fence a tree of ripe pears dr other
fruit is at times appreciated./ On more
than one occasion I’ve seen Johnny
catching himself a meal of grasshoppers,
and, believe me, he is no slouch at the
job. Either with his quick pounce, or
a half-spring that collects the ’hoppers in
mid-air, the little ginger bloke makes my
efforts at gathering a bit of fish-bait look
damn’ silly. With nothing better offering
he will scratch out a feed of grubs, or
visit the vegetable-garden. He will eat
butter, cheese, sardines, eggs, or pinch
himself a drink of milk or cream from the
dairy; but his latest exploit has got a
neighbor of mine growling threatening
reprisals. In a quiet paddock where
feed is scarce, Johnny is busy bandicoot-
ing a patch of spuds.
* * * *
'“Urbans”: Camped on a Blue
Mountains (N.S.W.) creek, I heard the
sharp cries of distress of a small sparrow
which, while its mate fluttered use-
lessly about shrieking loudly, was
driven down to the creek by a
sparrow-hawk. Every frantic swerve was
followed and beaten by the hawk with
rocket-like short bursts of speed, each
one pushing its prey down closer to the
water. About a foot above the surface
the hawk seized the smaller bird and
dropped into the creek, making no
attempt to strike at the sparrow with its
beak. It floated on the surface, wings
outspread, and keeping its victim under.
After several minutes it rose straight from
the creek, appearing to jerk itself into
the air by a violent down-beat of its
wings on to the surface and flew off, clutch-
ing its dripping and drowned dinner.
* * * *
“Tarbush”: The red-backed spider
in the web in the comer of the shed was
surrounded by half a dozen tiny spider-
lings, the legs of each being long, espe-
cially the foremost pair, and very thin.
The head-chest was brown, the upper part
of the abdomen white, with two longi-
tudinal brown bars converging forward.
The whole under-surface was brown with
an hour-glass—or, rather, cotton-reel —•
shaped reddish mark on the abdomen.
They were such tiny things clustered
about the large velvety-black female with
the burning scarlet danger-sign that a
casual observer would have been in>-
dined to rhapsodise on the maternal in-
stinct. Any instincts involved in the tab-
leau, however, were far from maternal:
it was a scene of rank polyandry, and the
six small spiders were husbands, or, at
least, suitors. How do I know? Well, the
pedipalps behind the mouths of the little
chaps—appendages that have a leg-like
appearance in most female, spiders—
ended in large, rounded knobs. These
knobs, opened under a microscope, con-
tain a strong-walled, dark, coiled tube.
The pedipalps are used for transferring
sperms to the female, the tube being the
passage-way from the male glands. The
Cleopatra in this case would probably
have ended the honeymoon by making
a meal of her Antonys and Caesars.
As it was, I swiped her evil ladyship and
collected her he-harem.
* * * *
“Oomalas” (New Britain, T.N.G.);
There is a thermal region, known to only
a few bush-wanderers, not very far away
from Kokapo, where the megapodes lay
their eggs in countless numbers. A 100-
foot-wide stream of cold water from the
mountains enters the region at one end,
and quarter-of-a-mile further down it
emerges boiling. Care must be taken to
cross it by way of the stepping-stones pro-
vided by nature. Natives invariably carry
their dogs across, for a slip means death.
For some distance on both sides of this
boiling water the ground is warm, apd it
is here that the bush-fowl scratches holes,
two to three feet down ampngst the roots
of trees, and lays her eggs. The birds
appear to share a common incubation,
for I have seen half-a-dozen snake-like
heads wriggle till eyes were ground-level,
take a quick look and then emerge in a
half-run, half-fly and scuttle away into
the scrub. Although the natives spend
days on end feasting at this spot, this
fowl family doesn’t decrease in numbers,
for everywhere their melodious “me-
oak,” “me-oak” rings through the scrub
at sunrise and late-afternoon as they
scratch for grubs and insects.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Bill, new to the district, was
absorbing local gossip, “N,ot bad folks
round here,” the bloke in the store told
him. “Work when they’ve got to, drink
their share, but peaceful enough, except-
ing for Bruiser Kelly. Bruiser’s the fighter
of the district,” Bill’s interest increased.
“Quick, is he?” he asked. “Well, I
haven’t seen him in action exactly,” ad-
mitted the storeman. “And don’t know
anybody that has; but I believe he s
thunder an’ lightning with his fists, ? You
take my tip an’ steer clear of him.” A
couple of nights later Bill got yarning
to a wiry cove in the post-office. “S’pose
y’ ain’t met many round ’ere yet?” said
the local. “Ain’t seen our Bruiser Kelly,
’ave y’? Great fighter, that bloke.
Rather fight than eat. Mopped up dozens
afore he come ’ere. You watch out tr
Bruiser, mate, ’less y’ want t’ get minced.
Bill nodded, and, mooching across to me
pub, collided with a bloke in the door-
way. “Look where y’re going, y’ ,‘r UI ? der '
ing idiot,” growled a voice. Bill tffiew
his hands up defensively, and the ngn
was on. Two hits, and the belligerent on
looked like a meatworks. Three, and ne
swayed groggily. At four, he hit me
floor in a quick fadeout. “Cripes, that s
Bruiser Kelly,” whispered the scared voice
of the wiry local. Bill deflated like a
blown tyre. “B-Bruiser Kelly!’ he
gasped. “Cripes, is it? I ... I • v Well, I
reckon I better get out o’ quick,
then, before he wakes up again.”


The [?] COLUMN
Clyde Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
r Dividends ,
June, Loss. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.f
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1939 .. 5,831 Nil Nil 112.484
1940 .. 32,832 Nil Nil 79.652
1941 .. 15,969 Nil Nil 63,683
1942 .. 8,710 Nil Nil 59,973
Profit.
1943 .. 17,373 Nil Nil 77,346
1944 .. 17,632 5 15,000 79,978
1945 .. 19,113 5 15,000 84,091
1946 . . 25,545 5 16,000 94,636
Clyde Engineering Co. & Subsidiaries.
1947 .. 39,121 5 6 25,038 123,028
Premiums, new issues, £8033 .. 1
Reserves of new subsids., £13,513 I. ,00 457
Added to intangibles, £10,119 . . [ ’
Unexplained net reduct’s, £1998 J
1948 . . 58,453 5 6 34,500 156,410
Share premiums, £10,606 .. .. 167,016
Net addition reserves, £18,091 .. 185,107
Net addition intangibles, £6731 .. 178,376
1949 . . 88,693 5 6 54,158 162,911
+ After deducting intangibles, now £85,332.
Like many others in the heavy-engineering
trade, this Clyde co., which has been
turning out locos, tram-cars, cranes,
bridges and heavy forgings, etc., since
the end of last century, ran into a sea of
troubles during the 1930’5. And it didn’t
get on to a firm profit-earning basis
again until 1943, war having eliminated
overseas and other competition and pro-
vided a fresh crop of contracts, largely
on a cost-plus basis.
A ready market awaited the co.’s heavy
and other products after the war, but
shortages of steel, pig-iron, coke, skilled
labor and transport, and industrial hold-
ups have stood in the way of maximum
production, which is essential to satis-
factory earnings in this class of business.
At the same time recurrent lifts in wage
and all other costs, and the 40-hour week
—a luxury the country can ill afford—
bumped up outgoings. So, to put a bit
more stiffening into earnings, the board
decided to widen the spread of the co.’s
net by absorptions and otherwise. And
the subsidiary activities, other than heavy
engineering, were the profitable part of
the undertaking last term.
The business was reorganised during
the year, when the Granville works were
passed to a new subsidiary, Clyde
Engineering Pty., at an unstated
figure, and the present holding co.
was formed. Its assets consist mainly
of shares in and advances to sub-
sidiaries, a group of freeholds, which
are rented to the operating cos., and
stocks, etc., associated with merchandis-
ing activities. In addition to the engineer-
ing co., the subsidiaries include:
Paul and Gray Pty. (N.S.W.), Paul and
Gray Pty. (Q.), Paul and Gray Pty. (N.Z.),
ship’s chandlers, etc. Clyde Batteries Pty.
(N.S.W.), all types acid batteries. Fairey
Clyde Aviation Co. (N.S.W. and S.A.), air-
craft-repair shops, etc. John Carruthers
and Co. Pty. (N.S.W.), mechanical, elec-
trical and earth-moving equipment. Mc-
Leod, Bolton and Co. Pty. (N.S.W.), Tru-
grade Cotton Waste Pty. (N.S.W.), Aus-
tralian Stockinette Pty. (N.S.W.), makers of
cotton-waste, stockinette and other clean-
ing materials. Green Point Shipbuilding and
Engineering Co. (N.S.W.), ship-repairers,
engineers, etc. A. C. Willard and Co.
(N.S.W.), stainless-steel, chemical and food-
processing plants. Automatic Transporta-
tion Co. (N.S.W.), distributor of products
manufactured under licence from Automatic
Transportation Co., U.S.
The Green Point and Willard cos. were
bought at unstated figures last term, when
the transport distributing offshoot was
also s6t up.
All units of the group earned a profit
last year, except the Clyde Engineering
and Green Point cos., whose combined
losses aggregated £3l,7Bs—owing to in-
dustrial troubles the Clyde works were
closed for approximately five months till
late in August, 1949. After allowing for
depreciation (up £17,458) and taxation
(down £838), the slip in group profit was
only £19,760:
Consolidated Figures.
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Trading profit .. £60,904 £80,727 £115,096 £111,956
Less depreciation 16,267 16,762 27,028 44,486
Tax . . 18,675 24,844 29,615 28,777
Net profit .. 26,962 39,121 58,453 38,693
The £38,693 of profit was enough to pay
pref. divs. (£17,788) and show 3.4 p.c.
on average ord. capital as against 11.3,
10.7, 8.9 and 6.3 p.c. back to 1945. The
board considered the outlook good
enough to repeat the 6 p.c. div., making
average distribution 5.5 p.c. over the last
half-dozen years. For a long time before
that shareholders were shown an empty
basket. The year’s direct additions to
reserves (£18,091 net) and to intangibles
(£6731) relate mainly to the two busi-
nesses taken over. An unspecified surplus
on transfer of the Clyde business was
used to write down the book-value of
Work in progress oh long-term contracts.
To help finance net additions to plant,
etc., of £326,516, freehold £65,190, carry
more stock and book debts and purchase
the two businesses already referred to,
300,000 new £1 5 p.c. second prefs. were
issued at par, 106,066 £1 ords. were put
out at a premium of 2s. each, and
£104,429 was added to the overdraft:
Consolidated Figures.
Paid capital— 1946. 1947. 1948. • 1949.
Pref. .. £150,000 £150,000 £449,800
Ordinary . . £300,000 450,000 530,328 636,394
Outside interests
Overdraft .. 221,626 357,385 652,018 766,447
Creditors . . 112,150 306,164 423,406 371,817
Freeholds, etc. 135,605 178*979 246,167 311,357
Plant, etc. . . 207,059
Stocks . . 222,330 673,658 965,103 1,002,297
Debtors . . 176,181 262,175 362,605 389,078
Investments ..
Cash, etc. .. 31,002 81,072 8,608 27,362
Intangibles . . 2,500 18,482 28,601 85,332
Over the last three years paid capital has
advanced from £300,000 to £1,086,194,
which is in 150,000 first and 299,800
second prefs., both 5 p.c. cumulative, and
636,394 ords. And there was 17s. 7d. of
outside money in the business for every
pound belonging to shareholders when the
books last closed.
The engineering co. has over
£3,000,000-worth of orders on hand for
diesel-electric locos alone. These are
manufactured under arrangement with
General Motors Corp. (U.S.), and, pro-
vided the dollar problem doesn’t restrict
import of components too severely, much
is expected from this class of business
in the future. And tfiere is a lot of
bridge construction and other work wait-
ing when enough steel becomes available.
The Green Point co. is expected to
balance on the right side at the close of
next accounts. All other subsidiaries
report expanding activities.
Mindful of the slender prop for capital,
the amount of outside money in the busi-
ness and the risks inherent in heavy
engineering, the market prices the first
prefs. at 20s, 6d., the seconds at 17s. 9d.
and the ords, at 225. 9d. The return at
these figures is 4.8 p.c., 5.6 p.c. and
5.2 p.c. respectively. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is £8 7s. 6d. firsts, 735. 4d.
seconds and 255, Id. ords.
Foy & Gibson, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Consolidated Figures.
( Dividends To Re- Re-
Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1946.. 149,926 6 6 93,000 56,926 - 365,087
1947.. 223,570 6 7 105,000 118,570 483,657
To staff fund, £IO,OOO . . .. 473,657
1948.. 278,653 6.5 8 124,500 154,153 627,810
To staff fund, £IO,OOO .. .. 617,810
Less reserve adjustments, £63,253.. 554,557
To special tax reserve, £32,000 .. 522,557
1949.. 268,240 6.5 8 182,000 136,240 658,797
* Subject to goodwill ( £50,000), and excludes
£412,502 excess par over cost inter-co. holdings.
The public became interested in this big
and old-established retail-store and
woollen-manufacturing concern in 1946,
when 400,000 £1 ords. from the estate
of William Gibson were sold at 265. each.
The business has gone ahead considerably
since, and is now in the throes of re-
construction. As from February 1 last
it was split in twain and passed to
two new subsidiaries for unstated amounts
in scrip. Foy and Gibson (Stores) Pty.
took over the big shop in Bourke-street,
Melbourne, as well as the store at Fitzroy
and Prahran (Vic.) and Adelaide (S.
Aus.), and Eagley Mills Pty A took the
woollen- and worsted-yarn spinning,
weaving and knitting mills at Colling-
wood (Vic.), -
The parent has thus become a holding
co., whose principal assets will consist
of shares in the two subsidiaries just
referred to, freehold and leasehold pro-
perties (book-value £1,200,000-odd), which
are to be rented to the operating cos.,
shares in other cos. —principally 246,853
£1 ords. in Foy and Gibson (W.A.), and
all but a small fraction of the £566,430
of paid ord, capital in O. Gilpin, Ltd. —
and some other investments.
Chief profit-earners will be the
two new offshoots. The Westralian
co. (reviewed in these columns last
week) is itself engaged in a vigorous
policy of expansion, and paid 9 p.c.
from profits, equal to 14.1 p.c. on
its average ord. capital last term. No
div. has been received from the Gilpin
co., which runs a chain of 91 stores in
Victoria, N. S. Wales, South Aust. and
Tasmania, since a controlling interest was
bought in 1944. Meanwhile it has earned
enough to wipe out arrears of pref. div.
(£38,000) as well as meet current pref.
requirements, and reduce the deficit on
capital account from £76,096 in 1944 to
£37,967 at June 30, 1949. Its profit last
term was £50,277 (up £6425), which
covered a full year’s pref. requirements
and 5,5 p.c. on its ord. capital. More
working capital is needed in this busi-
ness, but it might not be long before
Foy and Gibson gets some return of the
£513,314 it has invested in the Gilpin
business, which has just changed its name
to F. and G. Stores, Ltd.
To help finance further expansion of
the group, 400,000 new £1 ords. were
offered at 265. each to those on the
parent’s register at January 20. When
all the money is in, the issue will lift
paid capital to £2,250,000 in 350,000
6 p.c. and 300,000 5 p.c. prefs. and
1,600,000 ords. Pref. divs. and 8 p.c. to
the ords. will then call for £164,000, or
£104,204 less profit than was shown last
term. Reserves will benefit by £120,000
of share premiums.
The parent co., which ran into heavy
weather in the 1930’5, cleaned its own
pref. slate in 1943, when the ords. came
into the picture again with 6 p.c., fol-
lowed by 7 p.c. and then 8 p.c. for each
of the last two years! Despite increased
turnover, there was a sharp drop in retail
profits last term, owing to official cuts
in gross margins and rise in costs. But
this was partly offset by better figures
from the mill, the net return from all
sources (including for the first time the
Gilpin co.) being £268,240 (down
£10,413). That covered pref. divs. and
19.3 p.c. on ord, capital as against 20.8,
16 and 11.8 p.c. back to 1946.
The unexplained reduction of £63,253
in reserves relates mainly to inclusion of
the Gilpin figures, and the £32,000 speci-
ally set aside for taxation to a contingent
liability in respect of unearned profit on
yams, following the withdrawal of sub-
sidies. There is a substantial inner
reserve in the freehold item (unrealised,
of course), all other assets are said to be
worth more than their book-values, and
some of the £412,502 excess of par over
cost of inter-co. holdings (not included
with the lay-by in the table) might be in
the nature of genuine reserves.
Here are consolidated balance-sheet
figures of the group:
Consolidated Figures.t
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. £1,630,572 £1,817,842 £1,850,000
Excess par over cost _
inter-co. holdings 401,175 412,077 412,002
Outside interests . . 6,326 380,410
Mortgages . . 265,000 320,362 404,963
Overdrafts, creditors 863,311 834,955 b 156,937
Tax provision . . 191,177 194,661 237,251
Freeholds, etc. .. 1,194,588 1,688,743 *>695,533
Plant, etc. .. 175,856' 282,166 298,715
Shares in Foy and
Gibson (W.A.) 246,753 246,853 246,853
Shares in 0. Gilpin 609,164 ~~~
Stocks . . • • 1,545,596 1,959,384 2,513,592
Debars •• 211,945 342,857 355,268
Cash etc .. 4 816 (12,565 6,099
Goodwill .. .. 30,000 60,000 50,000
+ 0. Gilpin figures excluded in 1947 but included in
1948 and 1949.
Outstanding items here are stocks (up
£554,208) and the amount coming to the
bank and others (up £320,982). The in-
crease in these and other items is mainly
on account of expanding turnover and
rising costs. The need for fresh share
capital is obvious.
Rights to the new issue are worth con-
sideration at 6s. 4d., making total cost
per new share 325. 4d., at which figure
the return is 4.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div,
basis. On the same basis existing ords.
at 335. 3d. return 4.8 p.c. The first and
second prefs. at 295. and 245. 4d. each
yield 4.1 p.c. Including the new issue,
but excluding the reserve in respect of
inter-co. shareholdings, net tangible
cover is £3 16s. 3d. prefs. (they rank
equally for return of capital) and 225.
lOd. ords.
Queensland Meat Export Co.
To Re-
Nov. Profit. Dividends. . serves. Reserves.
£ £ £
1940.. 83,872 7 p.c. = 34,386 52,678
1941 33.261 7 „ „ 34,386 51,553
1942‘.’. 35,033 7 „ „ 34,386 647 52,200
1943.. 34,821 7 „ „ 34,386 435 52,635
1944.. 36,215 7 „ ~34,386 829 63,464
To inner reserves, £3OOO .. .. 50,464
1945 23,471 5 p.c. = 24,562 49,373
1946 10 788 2 „ „ 9,824 964 50,387
194* 30,815 6 29,474 1,341 51,678
JS8:: kns 7 :,:, 34,386 4,732 56, 410
1949.. 39,822 7 „ ~ 34,386 5,436 61,846
What this northern meat-packer lost one
way it picked up in another last
term. There was a slip of £11,689
in the net return (£14,040) from
investments, mainly holdings in the Singa-
pore Cold Storage Co. and Northern
Manufacturers Pty., which took over the
can-making section of the business in
1941. And fewer cattle, but of better
grade and weight, were treated at the Ross
River works, Townsville. It was the
market for preserved meats, exports of
which increased substantially, and the
co.’s livelier activities at the Brisbane
abbatoirs, on both home and export
account, that put the stiffening into last
year’s figures. Prices remained firm,
thanks to the contract with the U.K.
Government, which was renewed in
October last for two years at slightly in-
creased price-levels,
After allowing £8347 (up £544) for de-
preciation and setting aside something for
taxation and other contingencies, the
board figured net earnings £704 better at
£39,822, best for over 30 years. Still, it
was a moderate 8.1 p.c. on capital as
against 7.9, 6.2, 2.1, 4.7 and 7.1 p.c. back
to 1944. The distribution was kept at 7 p.c.,
of which 2 p.c. was again labelled bonus,
making the average 6.2 p.c. for the last
decade. For the eight years before that
shareholders received an average of only
3.8 p.c. The £61,846 of visible reserves
isn’t much of a prop for £491,232 of
capital; but the thing that matters most
in this kind of business is the efficiency of
the works, which are now being recon-
structed and enlarged out of savings
accumulated mostly during the last 16
years.
The amount added during the year to
the book-value of fixed assets, etc—the
etcetera is an unspecified holding in the
Singapore co.—was £74,376, making the
growth £202,850 over the last two years.
The outlay has been mainly on additional
freezing accommodation at Townsville,
which, it is hoped, will be in operation in
time to benefit the co.’s 1950 earnings.
Meanwhile a lot of money has been repre-
sented by assets that were not earning
anything:
* 1946. 1947. 1948. 1949
Paid capital. . £491,232 £491,232 £491,232 £491,232
Creditors* .. 269,140 246,586 303,817 343*775
Fixed assets,
etc. .. 421,134 448,741 577,215 651,691
Stock.. .. 20,006 20,195 98,998 100 880
Stores .. 42,667 46,221 86,028 77,883
Debtors .. 87,721 41,740 63,604 50,885
Cash, etc. .. 199,004 212,078 10,000
Shares subsid., 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000
* Includes provision for contingencies, etc.
The true financial position is obscured
by inclusion of unspecified amounts for
contingencies, staff superannuation and
taxation in the creditors item (up
£39,958), which exceeded more-or-less
liquids (excluding shareholdings) by
£114,127 at Nov. 30, 1949.
With another good season well on the
way the quantity and quality of the
current term’s killings are more or less
assured, and so are prices. The niggers
in the woodpile are high and rising costs
and a fractious labor force. Subject to
what happens in these two spheres, and
provided the new freezing block gets go-
ing in time, prospects of a better show-
ing are encouraging. And, subject to
seasonal developments, long-term pros-
pects are much brighter than they were
after World War I. The Argentine,
which had then captured European
markets, is now in the hard-currency
bracket, and, since the dollar problem
looks like being with us for some time, the
British and Australian Governments are
discussing a 15-year meat agreement.
Efforts are also being made to have the
contract price expressed in Australian
currency instead of in sterling, as at
present, or alternatively for insertion of
a clause protecting Australian exporters
against a drop in the price of sterling.
Mindful of the chequered career of the
industry during the between-wars period,
the market prices the co.’s f.-p. 15s. shares,
covered by 16s. lid. in net tangibles, at
165., at which figure the return is 6.5 p.c.
on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
A. G. Healing, Ltd. s
(AND StTBSIDIAKIBS)
, Dividends (
r—> —Prcf. N Ord. To Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 6 p.c. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1940.. 27,883 5984 3012 11,700 7,187 63,873
8 p.c.
1941.. ‘ 28,730 5984 3012 15,600 4,134 68,007
1942.. 35,800 5984 3012 15,600 11,204 69,211
10 p.c.
1943.. 61,190 6984 3012 19,500 22,694 91,905
To staff funds, £BOOO .. • • 83,906
19 4 4.. 68,4 175 98 4 30 1 2 1 9,500 39,921 123,826
To staff funds, £IO,OOO .. .. 113,826
1945.. 63,882 5984 3012 19,500 35,386 149,212
To staff funds, £IO,OOO .. .. 139,212
Reserves taken in, £l7Bl .. .. 140,993
Unexplained addition res., £12,910.. 153,903
1946.. 76,443 5984 3012 19,500 47,947 201,860
To staff fund, £12,000 .. ... 189,850
Unexplained addition res., £15,983.. 205,833
1947.. 110,054 5984 8012 19,500 81,558 287,391
To staff fund, £15,000 .. • • 272,391
Assets revaluation res., £70,034 .. 342,420
Unexplained addition res., £14,828.. 357,263
13J p.c.
1948.. 121,439 5984 3012 26,000 86,443 443,696
-To staff fund, £14,161 .. .. 429,636
Share premiums, £96,176 .. .. 625,711
Unexplained addition res., £14,775.. 540,48
1949.. 124,367 5984 3012 34,999 80,372 620,858
To staff fund, £11,161 .. •• 609,697
Progress of this energetic and enterpris-
ing undertaking, which has made the mos.
of every opportunity for expansion, has
been very marked during and since the
war. The business, first set on its feet
by A. G. Healing as a bicycle-shop in
Melbourne 53 years ago, is sprea
throughout the Commonwealth, and its
manufacturing, importing and merchan-
dising activities cover a wide range ot
goods. Manufacture, centred chiefly m
Melbourne, includes bicycles, radios, re-
frigerators, vacuum-cleaners, batteries,
tubular shock-absorbers, machine-tools,
wrenches, electroplating plants, etc. n
addition, distribution covers motor,
cycle, wireless, refrigeration and air-
conditioning components, garage equip-
ment and break-linings, as well
washing-machines, electrical appliance
and fittings, B.T.M. steel-tubing, Sparta"
lacquers and paints and industn
chemicals. Except for a retail subsidiary
in Melbourne (Healings Pty), the co.
trades on a wholesale basis, and anotn
offshoot (R. and G. Finances Pty.) looks
after time-payment sales.
Since the public became interested in
1926, the only severe setback was during
the three slump years to 1933, when div •
averaged approximately 2 P-c. and ss.
share (£53:035) was snipped off “gLS
to rub out the p. and 1. debit and £- 7 ,tW
of goodwill. Recovery was prompt,
divs. averaged 1\ p.c., with comfort
margins, over the next five Y ea r s - _
rate dropped to 4 p.c. in 1939 —bushfires


GF
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
' •
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
O’Connell Street
7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
19
(Box
protect
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TO SERVI CE
nE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Machinery
People
G
281 Latrobe St.. 'Melbourne.
• Circular and*BandX W W ° Brkini 8 rkin i
“ a w Repairs.
MU 2321
• Portable
; Machines.
» All types
WHERE
CAealatetA MOVE MERCHANDISE MOVES
:VV:':
.
m
■ i
a ■
. mm
mm
M
/
m
mm
I
;
■
ONE
O V 1
★
New Installations
of Post-war Design
OTIS ESCALATORS
OTIS escalator*
-PUT MOTION INTO SALES PROMOTION
This Otis escalator installation at Myer Emporium
Ltd., Melbourne- invites customers to visit depart-
ments on upper floors—to see more and to buy more.
Properly planned escalators induce shoppers to visit
all departments . . . promote a high density ratio of
customers to merchandising area * . . make for more
store traffic, more sales—and more profits
Your local Otis office will be glad to give you the facts
and survey conditions in your store.
m
it;
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES:
UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA
FRANCE
and drought affected country
turnover—followed by 6' P- c ->
two lots of 8 p.c., five of 10 p.c.
and then 13.3 p.c. for the last
two years. And for each of the
last seven years more of the
profit remained in the business
than was distributed.
Including £96,176 of share-
premiums and a surplus £70,034
from revaluation of assets a year
or so ago, no less than £563,815
has been added to visible re-
serves and provisions over the
last decade, lifting the lay-by to
£609,697, which is £121,609 in
excess of paid capital. The
switch to war-time defence con-
tracts—largely lathes and pre-
cision tools—and then back to
civilian production was achieved
without faulter in net earnings.
Last term a bigger volume of
sales again more than offset the
steep rise in overhead and other
costs. After allowing for income
tax (£92,600, up £4150) and de-
preciation (£34,869, up £1582),
the board figured net earnings
£2928 stronger at £124,367.
That was enough to pay the pref.
divs. and show a juicy 43.9 p.c.
on average ord. and employees
capital, compared with 57.6,
50.1 and 34.6 p.c. for the three
preceding terms. All that leaves
out of the reckoning unexplained
additions to reserves and pro-
visions totalling £14,775. Taking
this and previous additions into
account, the year’s net result
(£139,142) covered pref. require-
ments and 49.5 p.c. on ord.
capita], etc., as against 65.2, 60
and 40.8 p.c. back to 1946
During the year the 15s. ords.
were split into ss. units, and
£168,080 of new capital was
gathered shortly before the close
of accounts in 520,000 new ss.
ords., issued at a premium of
3s. lOd. each, and 152,350 new
ss. 3 p.c. participating prefs.,
issued to employees at par. That
lifted paid capital to £488,088 in
74 v BOO 8 p.c. and 50,200 6 p.c.
prefs., all of £1 each, 152,350 ss.
3 p.c. redeemable employee
prefs. and 1,300,000 ss. ords.
The employee shares rank for
capital and divs. next after the
8 p.c. and 6 p.c. prefs., and par-
ticipate point for point with the
ords. in any distribution beyond
3 p.c. The share premiums
(£96,176 net) were added to re-
serves.
Here are balance - sheet'
figures:—
1947. 1948. 1949. -
£ £ £
Paid capital.'. 320,000 320,000 488,088
Mortgages .. 87,470 129,070 181,070
Overdraft .. 126,094 385,491 231,588
Sundry
creditors .. 216,044 274,719 353,812
Provident fund 12,000 11,161 6,661
Freehold and
leasehold .. 214,504 276,624 327,784
Plant, etc. . . 81,389 136,438 147,710
Stocks . . 658,585 922,574 1,089,661
Book debts .. 362,383 456,332 549,718
Investments &
cash .. 21,699 12,225 10,487
The year’s improvement in the
more -or - less liquid surplus
(£883,396) was £281,545. The
new share and premium moneys,
together with an extra £52,000
raised on mortgage and a further
£79,093 from sundry creditors,
went into stocks (up £167,087),
book debts (up £93,386), free-
holds, etc. (up £51,160) and plant
(up £11,272), The growth in
freeholds and plant was mainly
on account of the new factory
at Northcote (Vic.), which is to
turn out washing-machines, etc.,
and purchase of a property in
Adelaide-street, Brisbane, where
a branch is to be opened.
The ords. at 14s. return 4.7 p.c.
on a 13.3 p.c. div. basis, with
prospects. The 8 p.c. prefs. at
335. sd. and the 6 per cents, at
28s. yield 4.5 p.c. and 4.3 p.c.
respectively. Net tangible cover
is £8 15s. 7d. prefs. (they rank
equally for return of capital) and
14s. 4d. ords.
King Island Scheelite
King Island Scheelite (1947),
Ltd., is a reconstruction of the
old King Island Scheelite, N.L.,
co., which found itself overcapi-
talised because of a war-time
strategic loan from the Govern-
ment. Last term the co. earned
less profit, but put up a better
technical performance. Here are
production and recovery figures
and earnings, etc.:
1948. 1949.
Milled, tons (wet) .. 142,641 158,313
Head value, WO3 . . 0.56 p.c. 0.59 p.c.
Concentrates, tons .. 592.2 791.2
Average grade, WO3 68.1 p.c. 67.4 p.c.
WO3 units produced 40,335 53,328
Profit .. ~ £78,731 £63,764
Dividend, 10 p.Q. .. £50,000 £50,000
After allowing £30,000 (same as
for previous year) for deprecia-
tion, the profit (down £14,967)
was equal to 12.7 p.c. on the
half-million of capital as against
15.7 p.c. for 1948. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c., and, subject to
what happens in connection with
costs and the price of wolfram,
that rate looks like being re-
peated for the current year.
Last term the realised average
price of wolfram per unit was
£5 11s. 4d. as against £6 16s. in
1948. More ore was treated and
an extra 199 tons of concen-
trates produced. Overall mill
recovery for the year was 10 1
p.c. better at 72.2 p.c., the rate
at the close of accounts being 75
p.c., thanks largely to replace-
ment of classifers with Hummer
screens. Mining, treatment,
realisation and management
costs (£166,630, up £25,124) were
7s. Bd. lighter at £3 2s. 6d. per
unit of WO3 produced.
During the current term
secondary crushing and milling
rates are expected to benefit from
a reorganisation of the fine
grinding section. Average Lon-
don price of wolfram for January
was £S4 13s. per unit, equal to
£AS 16s. 3d. There was
2,790,000 tons of pay-ore mea-
sured up at end October last.
Co.’s f.-p. ss. shares, which
eased from 6s. 9d. to 4s. 3d. in
the market during 1949, fetched
4s. Bd. last week.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
Goldmining in W.A.
The major goldmining cos. in
Westralia are in a strong
statistical position, thanks to the
sound practice of keeping de-
velopment well ahead of the mill,
mostly from three to five years
and more in some cases. From
the investor’s point of view this
gives the industry in the West a
stability not often associated with
goldmining elsewhere. In South
Africa, for instance, the practice
is generally to limit measured
reserves to a year-or-two’s mill
requirements.
Here are the last available
production, ore - reserve and
assay figures for the principal
cos, on the Golden Mile
(W.A.);
Assay-
Treated,* Reserves, Gold,
Co. Tons. Tons. Dwt.
Lake View and
Star . . 551,191 4,096,400 4.86
Gt. Boulder
Prop. . . 868,193 2,350,000 5.50
. NV Kalg^irli
(1912) .. 217,541 1,806,128 6.06
Sons of Gwalia 80,000 f 596,716 5.68
G.M. of Kai-
goorlie . . 153,000) *505,065 5.30
Boulder Perse-
verance . . 144,000) 387,100 5.20
Kaigoorlie En-
terprise ~ 53,667 277,850 6.26
8. Kalgurli .. 81,000) 210,200) 5.09
Paringa .. 94,981 152,675 5.24
* Last financial year except where other-
wise stated. ) Approximate, based on
recent monthly returns. I In addition
there is 145,000 tons probable ore, averag-
ing 4.6 8 dwt.
In addition there are some pros-
pective large-scale producers
now in the development stage.
At Mt. Charlotte there is an in-
dicated reserve of 1,660,000 tons,
expected to average 4.95dwt.,
and at Porphyry the drill has
disclosed some 750,000 tons of
4dwt. ore, while 2,090,000 tons of
proved and prospective ore,
averaging 4.7dwt., has been de-
veloped in the Great Western
Consolidated group of leases.
Normally the lift in the price
of gold in September last would
add considerably to the tonnage
of mine reserves abovemen-
tioned. But until the thorny
question of appreciation of the
Australian currency in terms of
the dollar and sterling, and to-
gether with it the Australian
price of gold, is determined, the
assessment of payable ore values
and reserve tonnages, and work
in connection with mine develop-
ment, and the prospective level
of profits in the industry are all
vested with a disturbing uncer-
tainty. Neither the industry nor
the market knows definitely
where it stands at the moment.
There was an active and rising
market for gold shares following
the depreciation of soft cur-
rencies in Sept., 1949. But owing
to fear of a drop in the exchange
rate, the market for gold scrip
recently has been inactive, with
prices on the down-grade. The
drift was steadied by the Prime
Minister’s announcement that
“the matter was not before
Cabinet.” But, as he added,
“that does not exclude the possi-
bility that the subject might be
considered some time in the next
three years.” The only certainty
in the outlook at present is that
costs will keep on rising, for a
while at any rate.
Princess Royal Mining Co.,
N.L., a small Adelaide concern
which has unsuccessfully hunted
in Westralia and elsewhere for
years, has just taken a working
option till end Sept., 1952, over
some 60 acres comprising the
Black Angel-White Devil group
of leases about 25 miles w.-n.-w.
of Tennant Creek. Purchase
price is £30,000 cash, plus
50,000 55.-paids. Since 1936 the
Black Angel has crushed 5488
tons for 25620 z. gold, an aver-
age of 9.4dwt., with another
2.9dwt. in the tailings, and 378
tons from the White Devil aver-
aged 10.6dwt. W. R. McKeown
says geological evidence favors
extension of the several known
ore-shoots and the existence of
new ones. There is some 2000
tons ore available above the
103 ft, level in the Black Angel,
where the shoots continue
downward for at least another
38ft. It is a speculative prospect.
depending upon downward con-
tinuation and- value at depth of
known ore-shoots, the discovery
of new makes of payable ore,
and upon whether two major
anomalies, reported by the Gov-
ernment aerial survey in 1936,
are found to be big enough
and rich enough to warrant large-
scale operations. Co. has
150,000 ss, shares, called to 3s.
each, on the issued register, and
shareholders are likely to be
asked for more presently to
finance development.
* * * *
“Cob”: The old Charters
Towers (N.Q.) goldfield is re-
warding some of its diejiard
miners for their faith and per-
severance with good returns,
that are putting them in the
above “basic-wage” group of
workers. Joe Donovan recently
put through a 90-ton crush-
ing from the old Ladybird
for a return of 108 oz.
Sands and concentrates are
expected to yield another
70oz. From the Greek Mine,
idle during the war but a steady
producer prior to 1942, Adams
and Pederby have a 15-ton
crushing ready that is expected
to average 3oz. The old work-
ings collapsed when the mine
was left idle, and the partners,
with Government assistance, are
sinking a new 80ft. shaft to
connect with No 2.
* * * ♦
There has been a noticeable
drop in output on the Kaigoorlie
Golden Mile (W.A.) during the
last few weeks. The cause is the
little-publicised “cold” war be-
tween contract miners and
managements. Piece - workers,
who represent over 80 p.c. of
underground miners, recently
asked for a substantial lift in
their contract rates. This was re-
fused, and they are now working
for wages, obviously on the go-
slow principle. The basis of
their claim is that since 1939
piecework rates have not ad-
vanced proportionately with
wage-rates.


FG
• : -
*
BRANDY
mi strength
Enfolds wines pty. ita
PC. P.BO/80
Build .... modernise with
CANE-ITE
The only structural board that
as well os insulates
F
G
Half an inch of Cane-ite Insulates
against Summer Heat and Winter
Chill better than 16 inches of con-
crete or a brick wall 8 inches thick.
Cane-ite can be painted, or left in
its natural suede-like finish.
Sold by Hardware Dealers and
Timber Merchants.
CANE-ITE
is a product of
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division
The Economic Picture
A firm tone continued in share
prices last week. B.H.P. scrip is
lower than it was at the opening
of ’Change in early January, but
many other issues have moved to
prices approaching record level.
This is so in the case of Aus-'
tralian Consolidated Industries
(Australian Glass), which is mak-
ing a bonus issue in the form of
capitalised share premiums, and
Tooth scrip is at the highest level
seen for several years. Masonite
Corp. ords. have firmed again,
after weakening from 605., on
announcement of a proposed in-
crease in nominal capital but no
definite intention to increase the
issued amount. Tutt Bryant
shares rose to a new record of
595. on news of a new capital
issue, and Waugh and Josephson,
another Sydney tractor and
earth-moving-machinery concern,
went to 465. 9d., compared with
an issue price of 255. in the
middle of last year. Thirlwell
and McKenzie ords., on the
other hand, were rather weaker
at 265. Gibson, Battle ords, have
been fairly steady around 275.
for some time. This concern was
floated at par about a year ago.
Revaluation of our currency
is building up into one of the
biggest financial controversies of
the year. The Sydney Chamber
of Manufactures fias alrea'dy
been heard from, as have the
metal trades and the wheat-
growers, strongly opposing re-
valuation. There has been some
resistance to their arguments by
the Tariff Revision Committee.
Last week knight Walter Massy-
Greene was on the air,; over
several commercial stations, put-
ting up a case against revalua-
tion. Massy-Greene, a one-time
Nationalist Senator, is nowadays
a director of many companies,
including cotton and woollen
textiles concerns, North Broken
Hill, goldmines, etc., and his
radio talks suited the book of
the interests he represents. They
were definitely one-sided pre-
sentations of the case, though,
recognised as such, they were
quite well done.
Australia so far has not heard
very much of the other side of
the argument except as news-
paper opinion. Sectional in-
terests will be much stronger for
maintenance of the status quo
than they will be for revaluation.
Those who take up the case for
the coming to par with sterling
—or, at least, a closer approach
to parity—will be mostly those
people taking a broad national
view, though speculators who
have transferred sterling to Aus-
tralia are naturally interested. It
is quite true, as The Bulletin
has maintained for years and as
Massy-Greene said last week,
there is no reason that, just be-
cause the chief unit of United
Kingdom currency is called a
pound and ours is called the
same, they should exchange at
the same parity. But, by the
same token, there is no inflexible
reason why our currency should
remain at a 20 pc. discount
against sterling. The case has to
be judged in the light of prevail-
ing economic conditions. But
obviously political conditions are
going to intrude in a big way.
In Canberra the “Labor”
Opposition showed no considera-
tion for the national issues in-
volved in revaluation when
members individually spoke in
the Address-in-Reply debate. Mr.
Calwell obviously enjoyed the
prospect of Cabinet disagreement
in face of a prickly problem.
His own Government, when in
power, sidestepped the issue, and
a rapidly-accelerated cost-of-
living is partly a result,
i Likewise the Opposition
showed no inclination to assist
the Menzies Government on the
point of getting value back into
the pound—that, is, through in-
-efeasing production as a counter
to price-inflation and costs-
inflation. Both in the Senate and
in the Representatives there were
“Labor” statements which indi-
cated that Parliamentary
“Nothing irregular , of course —but Would you care to bet
the outgoing tenant a couple of hundred that you
don't get the tenancy?”
“Labor” \sas in sympathy with
any industrial disorder calcu-
lated to defeat the objects of the
Menzies Government so far as
improving housing conditions
and living standards and reduc-
ing the cost of living were con-
cerned.
Official trade-union announce-
ments have also indicated that
the industrial side of organised
“Labor,” so far, anyway, as the
management of the trade-unions
is concerned, is going to try to
obstruct the Menzies drive for
greater production, which is
Accessary to reduce living costs
and improve living and industrial
standards. The official “Labor”
attitude so far is much the same
as that seen among the com-
missars of Soviet Russia: all are
for “the party,” and none are
for the welfare of the com-
munity, not even the wage-
earning section of it. Official
“Labor’s” chief concern at the
moment is that it is out of
Ministerial office, and national
problems are all by the way.
Shcfcking housing conditions
and the effect of the deliberate
underproduction of coal upon all
classes, among whom wage-
earners predominate numerically,
appear to be no concern of Par-
liamentary “Labor” or trade-
union officialdom.
There has been a continuance
of high prices for wool and
most other export products.
These high overseas prices are a
mixed blessing to Australia, as
they inflate costs as well as in-
comes, and in the boil-down only
a few people seem to be the
better off. More important to
the welfare of Australia would
be a recovery in the output of
coal and steel and a general in-
crease in our industrial produc-
tivity.
Government Subsidies
State subsidies in New
Zealand snowballed under
Labor-Socialism to more than
£l5 million yearly, and the new
Government won’t find it easy to
halt the drain on the public
purse. As it took over the reins
the total was heading for a mark
several million higher, and on
Mr. Holland’s first look round
he saw the grants as a “major
problem.”
Here are a few, based on 1950
estimates: coal subsidy £2i
million; railways (to cover
interest and operating losses) £4.4
million ; imported flour (to hold
down bread prices) £l\ million;
butter (to hold the price to con-
sumers at Is. 6d. lb.) £2i million;
milk £2} million; eggs ££
million ; tea and woollen goods
£1 million* each. This works out
at £9 a head of population, and
it isn’t the full tally. Other sub-
sidies go to highways. State
superannuation funds, to some
local-governing bodies to help
out rates, to hospitals, to
families and to a whole army
of Maorilanders under the
“Welfare State,” Maoriland is
deeply committed to this last
group, because its Welfare State
is there to stay, but Holland and
Co. will have to get busy with
the axe to clear away a lot of the
overgrowth in other directions.
There’s a tangje of producer and
consumer subsidies that hasn't
followed any definite pattern and
hasn’t saved Maorilanders from
the backwash of inflation.
Paper prosperity has been a pro-
Hfic breeding-ground for State
aimisptat’ 8 feV6riSh ~
Subsidies haven’t helped to
tune-up industry. Production
has jogged along at a slower
pace with the State footing nan
ot the bill Of costs than iH
had to stand on its own feet
and N.Z.’s experience supports
up to the hilt opinion elsewhere
that progress doesn’t come from
dipping into someone else’s
pocket to make ends meet
M. s wheat crop has been on
the downward slide for years.
Coal is a glaring case.
Millions from taxes have gone
to swell miners’ wages to an aver-
age of more than £3 daily, and
in one extraordinary West Coast
pit £4, while absenteeism has be-
come a rooted habit. In post-
war years miners have made a
welter of holiday work at treble
wages, while inarticulate tax-
payers have been fleeced to put
them on the pedestal. Coalmin-
ing cos., now nearly extinct
through nationalisation of all
but a handful of pits, collected
whatever was necessary in
Mines Department grants to
bolster up earnings under pres-
sure of rising costs, and today
the department, now almost
monopolist coalmine owner, col-
lects well over a million from tax
funds to foot the interest bill on
capital and cover operating
losses. Every ton of State coal
last year was sold at a loss of
more than 7s. 6d., which was
passed on to the public through
taxes. Only opencast fields, well
mechanised, have been putting
up a decent performance. Alto-
gether, State coal is a sorry ad.
for subsidies.
When the job of restoring
N. unstable economy to a
proper balance is tackled in
earnest by the new management
there will be plenty of opposition
to overcome from vested interests
and spoon-fed groups that have
been leaning on the real back-
bone of the country the
primary producers.


The
Mutual Life and
Citizens' Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is po better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £65,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£10,500,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
leisurely luxury motor
tours to the continent
OF EUROPE
to LONnrfw Ta,teS LONDON back
ARMCHATR m 1? test model British
DriverX T° ° r f oaches wit h British
X™cK,irjr s “ k -”
URY 4 LAND CRUISES LTD a
Company founded in 1932, gives you here
!em!° Utl °n to >' our Continentalvil°t pS
fay Australian visitors travelled with
their aBt pr S n nf and W6re in
confidPDfhr ? ° f x our organisation. We
ample. y xpect you *° fo^ow their ex-
L trSJr at regukr intervals to;
SPAIN ALI RnM L W AKES ’ SWITZERLAND,
z d d isiT™-
your resemthm/ reCOm “ ended to make
rvations prior to arrival in U.K.
St¥e? a r: IMB LEGRIP, LONDON.
LUXURY land cruises ltd.,
9/11 Prince T s House, 190 Piccadilly,
, London, W.l.
Phone; REGent 4580 and 5241
CVAKD
Ckai]
PROTECTA
KUjiiitniug ,
for ... N ,
1,1 Bale*. Credit* t> TP * °* buiin *»* ** record*
i„ appeal*'"” l ’ **«• Strong built,
and m B ' n<l lo ' ,u " OelalU
JAC^MVv“ ANPty , Lui
ND brisbane
STDVty
****-»OlIRNj ‘ W - C Peolold * Co. Ply. Ltd
*®*Un>e i • Norm.n Bros. Ply. Ltd
„ harden a Bona Ltd
• Docket Book Co. iAosl.
FG
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’' practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed fiat upon the
orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABBEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 26x), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divoece.
TO JOHN HENRY LEARY late of Moore-
bank.—TAKE NOTICE that ELSIE EMMA
KATE LBARY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4318 of 1949 on the ground of
repeated assaults and cruel beatings during
one year prior to 2nd December 1949 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the'lst day of May 1950 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
R. G. B. TEMPLEMAN, Solicitor, 115 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—(l.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divoece.
TO LAWRENCE PERCIYAL STEVENS.
—TAKE NOTICE that DOREEN
THERESA PEARL STEVENS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4217 of 1949 on
the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or ex-
cuse If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney by the 17th May
1950 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from JOHN CHARLES
PAYNTER. Solicitor, of St. James Build-
ings 107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
New’ South Wales.—(l.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar in Divorce.
Public Notice.
TAKE NOTICE that by a Deed Poll dated
the First day of February 1950 and duly
enrolled at the office of the Registrar-
General of New South Wales on the
Twenty-third day of February 1950 I
DEMOS JACOBS of 115 William Street
King’s Cross in the State of New SouUi
Wales bom in Greece but now a natural-
ised British subject renounce and abandon
the names of Demosthenes Zacovoupolos
and adopt the names of Demos Jacobs.
Dated this 24th day of February, 1950.
DEMOS JACOBS. — M. B. BYLES Jfe CO.,
Solicitors, 4 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
O. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN, FRAZER.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, Genial Manager,
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
There'S
no friend
like an old
friend I
SCOTLAND
C^Gollum’s
’(fa
Scots dlhisky
rt, J *J»<k**l*o%mbebißov)ts*S**i
The name is_
(IKhUum's
The uuhiskij Is
m.
/mi
w
is
LL O Y D'S OF LONDON
. . . the first 250 years
191 64 THE BATTLE OF JUTLAND
The year the British Navy won its
greatest battle of the first World War,
Lloyd’s and the British Insurance
Companies were making an important
contribution to the ultimate victory by
helping merchant shipping to weather
the war.
LUMLEY'S OF LLOYD'S OFFER A
FREE INSURANCE ADVISORY SERVICE
As insurance brokers Lumley’s are in the position,
not only to give you complete advice, but also to
call upon the specialised policies of any number of
underwriting organisations, including Lloyd s of
London. Whatever your insurance need, make sure
your policy has the best possible coverage and most
reasonable rates by consulting lumley’s free
advisory service —in all States of the Common-
wealth.
EDWARD
& SONS
26} GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
'Phone: 8W2131
LUMLEY
PTY. LTD.
, C.M.L. BUILDING
72 HUNTER ST.
NEWCASTLE BIBW
And all other States.
THE SERVICE MAN
The Commonwealth
"Programme."
« E k Dum”: The announce-
n, 0 f the broad overall de-
£ policy o£ .he new Federal
Government will
with satisfaction if there are
"L of putting it into operation
vigorously on an expanding pro-
gramme.
It envisages “the acceptance
by Australia of its full share in
co-ordinated British Empire
schemes of defence and on
closest co-operation with the
United States.”
“Active steps” are said to be-
in progress to improve the effi-
ciency of the training of officers
and men of the RAN. Reserve.
Training, which was suspended
during the war, was resumed on
January 1. It is purely basic at
present, but the Government
hopes to expand its scope con-
siderably during the next three
years, one feature being the pro-
vision of an annual period of
sea training.
While the Regular Army is to
be kept at “full strength” by
voluntary enlistment, the Gov-
ernment declares that it is “mak-
ing preliminary preparations” for
the introduction of a “sensible
system of universal training de-
signed to meet the military re-
quirements of Australia with the
minimum of interference with
our urgent civil production.”
There is a lackadaisical air
about this announcement which
gives cause for uneasiness,
especially since it has been stated
in the Press that the Govern-
ment intends to call up only
50,000 men in the 18- to 21-year
range, beginning a year hence,
the announcement being based
on some information from«
sources near Army H.Q. It was
followed by a further statement
that in view of industrial needs
it was likely that the call-up
would be restricted to 20,000,
and that the training period
would remain at three months.
This suggests that Army H.Q.
advice has been overridden.
If this can be called “universal
training” and a sensible system,
then perfect virtue must be “uni-
versal,” since it exists, even
though among only a very small
proportion of the population, in
a far greater degree than trained
men are likely to exist under this
scheme.
If private industry can be con-
sidered to such a degree then
there can be no danger in the
eyes of the Government and no
hurry. In fact, the scheme will
produce fewer men than the
Citizen scheme would produce
if it were operated on a reason-
able and attractive basis, which
it isn’t at presfent. It is, in fact,
despite the huge amounts set
aside on paper, disgracefully
starved, and in some of its phases
(but through no fault of its
self-sacrificing members) very
like a bit out of comic-opera,
with no facilities, little equip-
ment and no incentive to the
average enlistee to stay in the
force unless he happens to be in
one of those battalions which are
able to stand on their own legs,
by reason of a common allegi-
ance not to Australia but to
some overseas country —Scot-
land, in the main.
The Air Force plans of the
Government include “intention
to develop the strength of the
R.A.A.F. to an extent more con-
sistent with the needs of Aus-
tralia.” Public interest is to be
“stimulated by plans to build up
the Citizens’ Air Force, the
Reserve and the Air Training
Corps, and the reintroduction of
a Women’s Auxiliary Air Force
in certain suitable occupations.”
All this is more promising in the
light of known moves for re-
equipment.
Beyond this Parliament was
told of schemes “to give effect
to a policy of industrial pre-
paredness for defence against
aggression,” which aims “at the
progressive filling of industrial
gaps, and the establishment of
the most modern techniques and
equipment in industry and in
Government factories, where re-
quired for direct defence needs.”
And it is stated that “the long-
range weapons project is re-
garded as of the greatest import-
ance, and this joint undertaking
with the United Kingdom Gov-
ernment will continue to receive
a high priority.”
All this seems to be in very
general terms, and not much
more inspiring than the actu-
alities of the past Government’s
effort. But it is too early to
judge the situation.
The fact that Mr. Harrison,
Minister for Defence, is being
sent abroad for a long period
suggests that he is going very
largely to establish co-ordination
with other parts of the Empire,
and to agree with the United
Kingdom as to what our part
will be in the common share of
defence, at the same time deter-
mining mutual obligations. Thus
the first announcements represent
only a marking-time;' since the
Government could not be ex-
pected to frame a full policy
until it knows what changes, if
any, the British Government
which has just come into office
will make in its overall schemes.
There is certainly a need for
gingering-up and for expansion.
Defensive effort based on the
training of a few boys a year is
futile, especially at a point in
world history, at which the Presi-
dent of U.S.A., the nation which
at present would bear most of
the early brunt of any common
effort, has reached the stage in
his thinking about war of calling
for common defence against
“the armed imperialism of Com-
munism.”
* Defence must be hastened in
the knowledge that Russia is
approaching the stage at which it
would welcome war in areas in
which it suited it to give aid for
a faster spread of Communism.
The Secretary to the United
States Air Force, Mr. W. S.
Symington, told an audience at
Yale University last week that
“Russia was stronger militarily
than all the nations of the
Atlantic Pact put together” ; that
it had a ground army far bigger
than that of the United States
and the Allies, the biggest Air
Force in the world and the
world’s greatest submarine fleet.
And that its strength was “gain-
ing every day.”
The strength of the British
Commonwealth is certainly not
doing that. Britain cannot even
keep order or guarantee the lives
of its citizens in Malaya. On
February 23 Communists virtu-
ally wiped out a police-post,
killing 19 police, two women
and a child in Ichore State on
the very doorstep of Singapore.
The force which attacked con-
sisted of 300 guerrillas. And
this sort of thing has been going
on for years.
It is time that Australia pushed
forward her defence plans and
had an integrated expeditionary
force on hand for emergency
needs in case of Communist in-
vasion of countries which can
be said to be in our defence
zone.
And particularly in case the
obvious and rapid disintegration
of the Indonesian Republic
should end in Communist
control, which it may, in which
event this country will have to
deal with its fifth-column swiftly
and decisively.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Last week everybody talked about the
sunshine and the poplars and the talkie-
temple belles at the opening of Federal
Parliament in Canberra. Of the belles,
of course, attention riveted on Dame
Enid Lyons, who has a very clever hat
instinct. Her small black velvet cloche
had a lilac-chiffon drape caught to the
right shoulder. If she continues this
way she’ll switch the spotlight from
Speaker Archie Cameron’s wig. Senators
Tangney, Annabelle Rankin, Agnes
Robertson, Ivy Wedgwood, too, got into
the picture, with some very , trig clothes.
Ben Chifley was seen around looking
more dashing than of old. That’s prob-
ably the relief of not having to be a stand-
in for Abraham Lincoln any longer. The
Governor-General and Mrs. McKell wore
impressive attire —he in topper (at the
right angle) and morning suit, she in a
charming frock of platinum-grey faille.
Prime Minister Menzies’s wife also wore
grey. Her small turban of coral-velvet
burst centre left into grey-heron plumage.
Somebody asked what Mr. Chifley
wore. The impression of his tailorings
is a bit vague—probably crossbarred
tweeds. Mrs. Percy Spender’s —Percy's
now External Affairs Minister —garden-
party frock may have forecast the things
to come —it was as lined as a road-map.
Parties ranged from Mrs. McKell’s
grand garden-party at Yarralumla through
official Parliamentary receptions at
which the wives and daughters of foreign
Ambassadors and Ministers added the
exotic touch in their national dress. The
final party-rocket was that given by the
Prime Minister and Mrs. Menzies'in the
members’ dining-room at Parliament
House. All the visitors had a grand time.
Some had friends in both paddocks, so
to speak, but whichever side of the fence
the parties were on they were all liberal.
Weekend specials in the way of parties
were the Roy McCaugheys’ and the
Graham Prattens’. At the McCaughey
Darling Point dugout the gardens
were lit up, the swimming-pool was
lit up. There were soft music, strolling
musicians and a room fitted up as a bar
leading on to the garden. The night was
windless, and there was a debutante
moon. Mrs. McCaughey, who is one of
Sydney’s most attractive women, wore a
frock of mingled black chiffon and Chan-
tilly lace. Setting for the party which the
Graham Prattens gave for daughter Jill
was Tokay, the George Falkiner home at
Bellevue Hill. This had the same fiesta-
like setting as the first. Jill herself was
the embodiment of spring in daffodil
yellows.
It was an exciting weekend for Empire
Games swimming champion Frank
O’Neill. He won the N.S.W. 110-yartls
title at the North Sydney Olympic Pool
on Saturday night, and then he announced
his engagement to the Honorable Patricia
Cavendish, whose mother is the Countess
of Kenmare, one-time Enid Lindeman,
of Sydney. Frank goes off this week with
Patricia and her mother to Kenya. Later
the marriage from the Countess’s home
in the south of France is planned.
Miniature reproductions of the gardens
of many lands will bloom indoors at the
rooms of the Society for the Adult Deaf
and Dumb in April next. The Governor,
Lieut.-General Northcott, will open the
exhibition in the society’s building in
Elizabeth-street. This occasion and the
private view on the preceding night will
be starred with Consuls and their wives ;
members of the Consular group are being
very active in arranging gardens and out-
door scenes typical of their countries.
The wife of the Philippines Consul is
arranging a dinner-table set in the midst
of tropical fruits and flowers. Exquisite
embroidered table-linen from the Philip-
pines and an unusual lampshade de-
signed like a small glass-house will be
featured. Mrs. Fernandez Yayle promises
a corner of the Argentine that will snare
the imagination. Mrs. Levien, wife of the
new Charge d’Affaires of Israel, is de-
signing a replica of one of its gardens.
Flqwers from Bowral and Exeter will be
used in the Scandinavian displays. Mrs.
Orsen Nielsen and Mrs. Samuels are
busy on a barbecue setting and some
lush window-boxes. The whole of the
asement will be given over to chrysan-
t emums, and on the first-floor will be a
reproduction of a pavement-cafe in Paris
wnere you can refresh yourself with tea
or coffee. Mrs. Arthur Davis is organis-
ing secretary of this novel exhibition. The
money is for a hostel for the older of our
deaf and dumb citizens.
The committee of the P.L.C., Pymble,
ex-Students’ Union, is holding the annual
dance at the Trocadero on Tuesday,
March 7, at 9 p.m. The tickets, at 12s.
6d. each, are obtainable from Alison
N Carthona, 14 Cambridge-read,
Drummoyfie. A social committee is
wQrking hard for funds for the dance ;
among the functions were a jumble sale
Friday> February 2 4, at Chatswood
Town Hall, and a mixed tennis-party at
the school on Saturday, February 25.
sir j Milne Barbour, Bart., very
knowledgeable chap in the matter of Irish
ii ne ns and textiles, and M.P. of Northern
Ireland, will be guest-of-honor at a late-
afternoon reception in the rooms of the
Overseas League. Sir Milne, who is presi-
dent of the Ulster branch of the League,
speaks well for the Irish clime, though he
and his daughter Mrs. M. Byers are
travelling to Australia to escape the
Irish winter. He is tall and upright, has
a fresh complexion, and is a very vigorous
“getting on to the seventies.” Mrs. Byers
an d Miss Campbell will also be guests at
the party.
Abbott wife of the former
of the ’ Nor thern Territory,
nQW gj ves muc h of her time in her home,
The Jhimbl Bowrab to her favorite
occupation _ wri tmg. In 1928 she and
Glad * g nf)W Mrs j D Moore ,
A .B.C. chieftainess, published through
Angug and Robertson Life on the Landm
A year ago Harrap, Australasian Publish-
ing Company, brought out Mrs. Abbott’s
mong the Hills, a picture of life in the
’nineties on a station in the foothills of
Kosciusko. This station was, in fact, old
Encumbene station and is on the very
spot where the Snowy River development
scheme is being begun. Altogether Mrs.
Abbott has had 157 articles published;
many of these were on the Northern
Territory and some were on aspects of
the north-west plains of N.S.W. Mrs.
Abbott contributed to the London “Daily
Mail” and the Aberdeen “Times.” She
has an amusing and lively tongue, and
her manners are as easy as waters of a
stream running through f he fingers.
Dorothy Welding photograph.
The Conference-room of the Rural
Bank had a unique experience last week.
Instead of filthy lucre, mortgages and
trade agreements being the subject of
discourse, the big room echoed to what
Lord Macmillan has termed “the com-
merce of ideas.” Sir Eugen Millington-
Drake, of the British Council, read in
a voice at once sensitive and sympathetic
extracts from Cicero, from Bacon,
Chesterfield, Barrie and from Bunyan.
The Arts Council of Australia had sent
out the cards, and netted a catch of poets,
artists, musicians and librarians. The
British Council’s Sir Angus Gillan was
chairman—he and Sir Eugen had been
in the same college at Oxford. Lady
Gillan was a listener ; Dorothy Helmrich
welcomed the guests and made a speech
of thanks. With his grey suit, his silvery
hair and his fair skin, Sir Eugen looked
rather like a fine etching. '
Three lovely garments which took part
in Madame Listwan’s fashion-parade at
Prince’s last Friday were a burgundy-
toned velvet suit with slightly stiffened
basque effect —on this the present trend
to trimming is shown in clear crystal but-
tons ; an evening frock, like a dream of
youth all billows of white organdie and
the finest black Chantilly; and a soft
black satin evening frock, the skirt sweep-
ing to yards and yards of fullness, the
bodice fitting and off the shoulder. The
skirt of this is strewn with beautifully-
cut-out maple-leaves of the black satin.
It makes you think of that ballet where
the poet sits reading his book while the
autumn leaves keep drifting down.
A lace veil made over 200 years ago,
and an heirloom in the bride’s family, was
a charmful part of Helen Goddard’s
wedding array when she married Kenneth
Coles last week. Helen, only daughter of
the Roy Goddards, of Edgecliff, and her
’groom, who is the only son of Mr. and
Mrs. K. F. Coles, of Bellevue Hill, were
wed in All Saints’ Church, Woollahra.
The wedding frock was of ivory satin, the
full skirt sweeping into a train. The re-
ception was at the Rose Bay Golf Club.
From Melbourne
When fashion expert Douglas Cox re-
turns from a trip to Paris, where he
goes into confab, with Christian Dior, he
always brings news of importance to
Australian women. Of the new spring
collection from the house of Dior,
Douglas says that the most revolutionary
thing about it was that it was wearable.
Reason for this was that the majority
of Dior’s day-frocks were made from half
the amount of material that he used on
former occasions; most of the frocks
took only four or five yards for their
fashioning. The dresses varied in length
from just below the knee to mid-
calf. Dior makes no hard-arid-fast
rules about length. His necklines are
most interesting, especially the harness-
neckline, made from stiff materials and
often worn on blouses outside the neck-
lines of suits.
Other fashion pointers which im-
pressed Douglas were that the three
most important materials to be used
for spring and summer fashions are
pique, shantung and linen. Chiffon and
organza are being finely pleated before
cutting, which gives a slim cut, but
allows freedom of movement. Soft
materials are being used a great deal.
Unusual color combinations include beige
with tangerine, navy-blue and putty, beau
blew and navy, salmon-pink and black,
steel-grey and cream. Colors include the
dreamy Caribbean Sea colors and “dirty”
shades in cotton prints. There is a return
to the bolero featured on topless cotton
frocks and on simple day frocks with
sleeves, or completely sleeveless.
Pictured below is lovely Viola Keats,
who plays Blanche du Bois in Tennessee
Williams’s “Streetcar Named Desire.”
Tall and fair and possessing graceful and
expressive hands, Viola claims relation-
ship to poet Keats. After graduating
from London’s Royal Academy of
Dramatic Art, where she won the highest
award, the Bancroft gold medal, she
joined Liverpool Repertory, where she
stayed for two years. Viola then made
pictures for Gaumont-British and other
companies. Her West End and Broad-
way debuts were made as Alex, in John
van Druten’s “Distaff Side.” She returned
to England from the U.S.A. to star in
“Gentle Rain,” and then shuttled back
and forth across the Atlantic in various
plays until 1939. During the war she
worked at the Anti-Aircraft Command
headquarters. Before coming to Australia
Viola had just finished a year’s run in
Maxwell Anderson’s “Ann of the Thou-
sand Days”; she played opposite Rex
Harrison.
At a meeting at the Toorak home of
Mrs. A. Southey plans were discussed for
a floral-carpet display. The Governor’s
lady will open this, from the proceeds
of which the Free Kindergarten Union of
Victoria, of which Mrs. Southey is presi-
dent, will benefit. Wirth’s Olympia will
be the setting. The display will be held
from March 16 to March 18, and will be
open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Thousands
of blooms will be needed to make the
carpet, which will measure 44ft. by 30ft.
Among the flowers to be used will be
white dahlias and chrysanthemums, red
and pink roses and pale-yellow chrysan-
themums, with nasturtium leaves as the
green background, and it will be laid
ZZt of Mrs - Mzn Colvin
At the meeting were presidents and rente'
sentatives of 33 of the free kindergartens
Mrs. Norman Hams, vice-president of
the union, assisted Mrs. Southey at the
meeting. It was suggested that a village-
green might be improvised as a suitable
set mg for the sideshows, together
saltern 0 by . Various kinder ’
gartens. Under consideration at the meet-
ir*K k— Cre r tber fractions, including
exhibitions of badminton, displays of folk
dancing and the provision of incidental
music. Those wishing to contact the com-
mittee may do so at the office, which has
been established at 232 Flinders-lane
Telephone Central 4660. Miss P Briees
is secretary.
Blonde and lovely Sydney girl, Shirley
Nichols, arrived home this week on the
Mooltan. She is staying six months, after
which she must go back to London to
rejoin her husband, Robert Quentin stage
director for the Bristol Old Vic. Co
Shirley is well-known in this city for her
work in Doris Fitton shows, notably
“Mourning Becomes Electra.” She also
played Wendy to Gwenda Wilson’s “Peter
Pan. ’ If a suitable part is forthcoming,
Shirley will make a brief stage appear-
ance before taking off again for London.
It’s becoming increasingly hard to keep
track of the many comings and goings
of well-knowns in this city ; latest to trip
off is Mrs. Ronald Findlay, better known
in the theatrical world as Betty Stewart
Betty left this week on the Himalaya
for a 10-weeks’ trip abroad. For many
years Betty did publicity for J.C.W’,
meeting all the notables who came to this
country for stage- or concert-work. Main
reason for her trip is to see what is
doing in the world of the theatre; she
will go to Edinburgh for the Festival and
also to Rome and Vienna. Just before
Betty left, her mother, Mrs. L. M. Dunne,
gave her a buffet luncheon in her flat at
Surrey Hall, St. Kilda-road. Mrs.
Dunne’s smart navy-blue crepe frock,
donned for this occasion, was highlighted
with horizontal white stripes, and the
guest-of-honor chose a deep wine-toned
check taffeta ballerina frock which
featured a portrait-neckline. Pianist Vera
Bradford was among the guests, and
Muriel Howard, now appearing success-
fully with the G. and S, Co., was also
there, looking attractive in a soft pink-
crepe jacket-suit and matching pink hat
with roses for trimming. Another
theatrical guest was Wilma Harrison,
whose grey gaberdine suit was worn with
a wide-brimmed natural straw hat banded
with black velvet ribbon.
A late-afternoon party at the Oriental
Hotel had as host Lt.-General S. G.
Savige, who has become chairman of the
citizens’ appeal committee for the Vic-
torian Red Cross. Famous as a soldier,
the General will probably become just
as famous as a pleader for a just cause;
those who listened to his calm and
logical speech on the March appeal, in
which Red Cross has as its objective
£lOO,OOO, were most impressed. Among
many things, Lt.-General Savige said that
the margin between estimated expenditure
on Red Cross services this year and
regular income was £lOO,OOO. Blood-
bank service would cost £40,000 and
service- and civilian-welfare services
£75,000. He also said that the peace-time
cost of the Red Cross was fast approach-
ing war-time expenditure, although many
services to the community had been cur-
tailed.
The Consul for Switzerland, Mr. John
A. Pietzcker, claims he is the oldest sub-
scriber to The Bulletin and recalls the
days when he played bowls at Mosman
with William Macleod and “Hop.” These
facts were revealed to this Letter when
he was guest-of-honor at a late-afternoon
party at Mario’s, when the Italian Am-
bassador, Dr. Giulio del Balzo, invested
him with the Star of Italy, on behalf or
the Italian Government. This is the hrs
decoration issued by the new Italian
regime. It was given to Mr. Pietzcker
for his work on behalf of Italian nationa s
during the war years. The Ambassador
presented a large sheaf of flowers to Mrs.
Pietzcker, whose cool grey-checked sheer
frock was worn with a large black baku-
straw hat. Among the guests, who wer
mostly representatives of Italian socie i
in this city, were Madame Mario ' /l S an °’
whose elegant frock effectively combined
black-sequinned tulle and lace ,^ nd
worn with a close-fitting black silk s
hat; Mrs. G. Santoro, whose husband
is president of the Dante Society, w -
a smart jacket suit of tabac moir^ f a p
and large natural straw hat; Mrs. r.
Ziepell, whose black-and-go d P n £ ted JL
frock was matched by her black , •
Boffa, wearing a grey crepe her
grey, cyclamen-trimmed hat, an
daughter Maria, whose green-an ' .
Paisley print frock and white grosgram
hat were cool and charming.


This
is the
sign of
worEd-wide
service
Only reliable and guaranteed refills
can ensure a 100% service from
a ballpoint pen. This is why mil-
lions the world over choose Biro.
Not only are the pens themselves
a joy to see and handle, but tens
of thousands of dealers throughout
the world supply guaranteed Biro
refills specially prepared and
tested to suit local climatic con-
ditions.
Here is the Refill range:
For Biro Minors in 4 colors . . 3/9
For Biroette and Biromatic . . 2/11
Magnum for New Biro & Birode Luxe 3/9
Pen prices: Biro Minors 6/-, Biroette 15/-,
New Biro 34/6, Biromatic 42/- and 55/-,
Biro de luxe £6/10/-.
A PEN FOR YOUR THOUGHTS
Pat, Nos. 132073-8 Dec. 1943. 133163-31 Dec. 1943. b/16_
m
m
A
U'' e
SUNDRY SHOWS
"A Streetcar Named
Desire."
Tennessee Williams’ B ‘ A Street-
car Named Desire,” put on at
Melbourne Comedy is a
commonplace play, and the most
interesting things about it are
why it won three leading Ameri-
can drama awards in the one
vear why it has caused a uni-
Si furore, and why Sir
Laurence Olivier thought it
worth producing and putting his
wife in it. There isn’t much
understanding in it, and from
the point of view of art you
could scarcely call it a play at
all, or Mr. Williams a play-
wright, though you might call
him a fairly good reporter, like
the man who wrote “Rusty
Bugles.”
In view of its essential dull-
ness and the fact that none of
the characters live, except the
nymphomaniac Blanche in her
moments of fantasy, one can
only come to the conclusion that
the play’s appeal lies purely and
simply in its subject-matter. Mr.
Williams has put everything ’in
it that isn’t ordinarily discussed
round breakfast tables —perver-
sion, homosexuality, childbirth,
love in its negative aspect,
assault and battery and violence.
The only thing he seems to have
left out is murder, and it was
confidently expected that he *
would get that in just before the
final curtain.
Words are used and functions '
mentioned that are ordinarily
taboo in polite conversation, and
if there were no taboo it is to be
feared that the critic of the New
York “Herald Tribune” wouldn’t
have found them so “savagely
arresting” or the play a “work
of rare discernment.” Discern-
ment! There is no more discern-
ment in it than there is in a
policeman’s account of the latest
murder with a sexual content.
Discernment is a matter of see-
ing deeper than, and having dif-
ferent values from, the people
you’re discerning; there isn’t
any indication that the play-
wright of “Streetcar” has any
different values from his puppets.
, e auth or makes the most'
udicrous mistakes in conse-
quence, as when he tries to
present Stanley Kowalski as a
primitive he-man, a natural bull
or a man who gains an ascend-
ancy over his wife by his bull-
hke attributes, whereas he is only
poor simple sap with f he in-
S™* °{ a Public-school boy
th less education. He was
22 y u ma . de worse than in ‘
nded by the commonplaceness
ol Arthur Franz’s acting.
better 8 ? s Blanche was
tive w 18 a beautiful, attrac-
-5 WOman with a lovely voice
Blanpif a ma § nifice nt actress.
«l a nche is apparel a study 0 f
logicarura° maniaC whose bio-
- ge 18 80 lntense that she
manv L Care What men or how
q Uen y ti v h l 80es with - Conse-
her hnm Sh f produceB chaos in
n evcm e tOWn ’ which believes
fions S eneSS in these rela-
t a ' She causes a boy of 18
ta sK S T ide b 7 tel| i"B him
Sal heard « homo-
s ttis i S a i, ap r
she k • : ms 18 not clear,
from whkh 1° an lnstitution
wmcn she escapes.
who has e ma° bS her sister ’
social stratn arned into a l° wer
re-enacfb P am ’ and proceedB to
and, appearmg oCiatlOnal Pattern,
Produces the saml a h great lady >
the workprc chaos among
a 2,Tl ndpoker -P la yersin
Orleans Th tenepient in New
hut she are all frustrated,
retreats aS f frustrated and
where sh? ber fantasy world,
ire wh^ anUfactures a md-
to Z & Wants t 0 take her
she is
strange man 111 ,®*ght by a
B man “d a strange
woman who are apparently
asylum officials.
Miss Keats showed really ad-
mirable skill in switching from
the real world to her fantasy
world and back again, and was
the only person in the play who
didn’t make a hit by mere sensa-
tion. The rest have no more
life than any other set of un-
related facts would have.
Pleasing Sounds.
To return after some years to
a concert of strings is to find
little change; more foreign
accents in the audience, perhaps ;
and the four beetle-backed per-
formers, two Australian
violinists and a ’cellist and a
violist from England, wearing
turned-down collars with tail-
“ That's right—keep the audience Waitin' again while y'
admire yerself!"
suits —what would Lionel Law-
son have thought of that? One
remembers him always suavely
tailored, whether picking over
pieces in a music library for a
radio “light ensemble” or for
the picture-show orchestra he
once, for a short while, with set
and supercilious smile, con-
ducted, or on the concert plat-
form as leader, first-violin or,
as sundry displaced persons have
taught us to say, concert master
or as soloist.
Throughout the Saturday-
night performance of the
A.B.C.’s Sydney quartet the
memory of Lionel Lawson re-
placed the more varied wander-
ings of the mind usual at such
performances. Almost 20 years
ago one began one’s first column
of criticism: “Mr. Lawson
played admirably the first move-
ment of the Cesar Franck
sonata which always sends us to
sleep.” It was the first time one
had heard the Cesar Franck
sonata. “You’re a born critic,”
said his editor.
Time performs miracles for
born critics who are prepared to
learn at the public expense. One
feels that one almost understands
the Cesar Franck sonata now ;
one was surprised to find, in the
plunging and heaving andante of
Beethoven’s third Rasoumovsky
quartet, played with wonderful
verve on Saturday night, an old
and enchanting friend: in
another 20 years the whole work
may become clear. One has
something to live for. Or the
Quartet, Op. 77, No. 1, by
Haydn .. . Something orchestral
of Haydn’s dressed up for solo
violin is one’s only memory of
■first hearing Lawson, at that
same conservatorium in the
1920’5, recently returned from
Europe, playing with the with-
drawn air which never left him
in concert-hall or cinema.
Or even under the tin roof at
a soldiers’ concert at Liverpool.
On the way up in the train he
had been morose: “If I’d
thought there might .be con-
scripts in the audience 1 wouldn’t
have come. To play for con-
scripts!” He had beer) an Air
Force pilot in the First World
War, He was everyone’s dis-
dainful older brother; the
memory of some unwieldy bit
of printed admiration occa-
sionally betrayed him into a con-
fidence; “An artist must know
his limitations: what he can do
and what he can’t do” . . .
“Look, I’ll tell you ; you prob-
ably don’t know anything about
music, but you seem to under-
stand” . . . That he was an
artist probably. Thus, grudg-
ingly, a kind of booby prize, he
gave one the secret which found
its way circuitously into these
columns, of Beecham, asked by
a Sydney reporter if he really
belonged to the pill family, re-
plying: “Yes, and they tell me
my performances are quite as
moving.”
One remembers Beecham at a
rehearsal of Boccherini, loung-
ing on a chair above the
orchestra, lazily waving his
baton, his head bent to one side,
listening like a charmed snake,
as one then remarked, to Law-
son’s violin: “Pleasing sounds,
Mr. Lawson; very pleasing
sounds.”
How strange on Saturday
night to find pleasing sounds in
the Ravel quartet that years ago
seemed impossibly strange; to
feel that to hear it six or seven
times more might be completely
to understand it; to feel that at
this rate even the Debussy
quartet may eventually mean
more than a fluttering of green
leaves in sunlight. Yet, before
they vanish in a more musical
understanding, how appropriate
are those green leaves, from the
immortal forests of illusion in
which so many performers and
critics have wandered, to bend a
wreath, from one who hardly
understood, for one who rarely
condescended to explain.
R. McC.
Lymburner's Oils.
In Francis Lymburner’s oils
at David Jones’s gallery, Sydney,
you meet, principally, a quality
of mind. So you do, of course,
when you look at any painting.
Every work of art, whether it is
of the Showboat on Sydney
Harbor, a gum-tree or a slum
tenement, is, in a sense, a self-
portrait, just as every piece of
writing is a fragment of autobio-
graphy. Ultimately, that is what
you value: “not the novel,”
said D. H. Lawrence, “but the
flame behind the novel.”
Lymburner’s flame is slight
enough ; rather like the illumina-
tion in one of those restaurants
where you dine gracefully and
gaily by candlelight and where,
in the shadows and among the
dancers, the dramas of life and
love begin tentatively and dis-
creetly. But even in so slight a
form as this you do not often see
a flame so distinct and, allowing
for a debt to Renoir, so original.
Still more rarely do you meet an
art with the graces of lyricism,
tenderness and humor,
Lymburner doesn’t bother very
much about literal verisimili-
tude. His owl is not like any
bird ever seen in a zoo. His
Showboat, if that is what he has
painted in “Sydney Sunday,” is
not quite the vessel on which in-
trepid visitors listen to jokes and
information from the loud-
speakers. The figures in “In a
Forest” might be Titania and
Bottom, and then again they
might be a marionette and a toy
bull.
But it isn’t, in this case, that
the artist can’t draw. Even if
one weren’t acquainted wilh his
pen-drawings, his “Nude Back”
would guarantee a sound basis
of craftsmanship; it is a rarity
among back views of a model in
that the artist seems to have
painted it not for respectability
but because he thought it was a
nice back.
The grotesque and doll-like
figures, the toy boats and
montage effects characteristic of
most of the paintings, are a de-
vice to express the spirit of car-
nival ; and they do express it,
more effectively than could a
literal representation, and more
effectively than most contempo-
rary distortions, because the
artist is genuinely expressing his
own outlook rather than follow-
ing a fashion.
The nearest Lymburner comes
to a dramatic statement is in
“Mother and Children,” and here
it is a Renoir-like tenderness
that is conveyed, rather than the
terror of the real or * symbolic
storm that surrounds the
huddling figures. His view of
life on the, whole is light and
limited, and embodied in a
limited technique, the effect of
which weakens with repetition
t and which tends to become
merely vague. But everyone has,
'somewhere, his boundaries ; and
there is much to be said, in this
dark world, for lightness of
heart.
*,* » *
Of three artists showing at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries, the
one with the most to say is
Yvonne du Moulin, who paints
landscapes of slums and the
country in watercolor. Roy
Thibou’s five tiny paintings in a
variety of mediums are too slight
to do him justice and look as if
they had been gathered together
in haste and at random, and
Arthur Nichol’s caricatures of
slum-dwellers, though amusing
enough, are hardly to be ranked
as serious works of art —even
as caricature they are rather
coarse in technique and obvious
in humor. Yvonne du Moulin’s
landscapes are excellently drawn
and unusually harmonious in
color, within a quiet scheme of
greys and browns. “Rooftops”
adds luminosity to this formula,
and in “Towards Evening” it is
deepened to a sombre richness.
"The Mikado."
The Gilbert and Sullivan co.
continues to sing through its
repertoire at Melbourne His
Majesty’s, and the principal
singers are in as good or indif-
ferent voice as ever. They all
turned out in Japanese clobber
for the purposes of “The
Mikado,” which seemed a more
innocuous satire than ever,
though the music holds its
charm, especially when it is being
given a passage through the lively
organ possessed by Helen
Roberts, who provides a Yum-
Yum as pleasant to listen to as
she is to look at.
As the sinister Katisha Evelyn
Gardiner would terrify a kinder-
garten. Ivan Menzies, who in
pre-war days stood himself down
from a performance because he
didn’t want to exacerbate inter-
national relations by offending a
friendly nation, although the said
nation was perfectly familiar
with Gilbert’s opus, reappears as
Lord High Executioner, and
plays it with the nonchalance
that has become second nature
with him. Under Gabriel Joffe
the music is exceptionally
vigorous and sprightly.


A STUDY IN GLUTTONY
By
ETHEL
ANDERSON
DR. PHANTOM did
not really care for
children. It is doubt-
ful whether any child
had ever been invited to ride
beside him in the dashing
Hyde Park in which he made
his daily rounds. It was a
curtained and canopied
vehicle, its four wheels rimmed with
iron, and it was drawn by a piebald
Water, and driven by a white-gloved
personable murderer.
It was usual in those days for citizens
of Sydney who applied for convict
servants to ask for a murderer, or, failing
that, even a manslaughterer, if any should
happen to be available. They were in
great demand, for though apt to be im-
pulsive on occasions of emotion killers
had generally been found to be of a more
warmhearted and likeable disposition
than criminals of other persuasions. Dr.
Phantom, caring little for thieves, sheep-
stealers, pickpo?kets, lags, or the abdu£-
tors of heiresses, employed, when he could
do so, only murderers. Though he drew
the line at poisoners (his dispensary being,
he felt, a temptation), he was at this
period particularly lucky; he was rich in
the possession of “First and Second
Murderer”—as he designated them-and
his servants’ hall in the neat red-brick
Georgian house some twenty miles from
the capital had never been more cheery.
On this energetic afternoon in early
autumn, when a mellowing sun shone
obliquely down on a humming and
triumphing world, “First Murderer” was
on the box, a check-string with its wide
band attached to the right arm that had,
Srf a leth™ X e on e Ura X e C waTat
wielded a iemai weapon (an axe was at
Phantom, his
coachman would jerk the cord to ensure
attention before issuing his directions as
u
to which track should be followed, or at
whirb bnimm cWlr hnwl nr
h^ S^nf,iH C c tnn hanty> h 0 i
mansion he should stop.
[ N this beneficent district the fruit had
1 never been finer.
The grapes growing in the direction of
Dural had recalled to Dr. Phantom a
Tuscan summer. The peach harvest, he
had noted, had never been more luscious,
Lying at his feet two large baskets
testified to an almost Olympian luxuri-
ance; in one was an Ossa of jargonelles,
orange bergamots and Williams; from a
second willow-ark rose a perfect Pelion of
grapes, apricots and plums (blue per-
drigons) ; the first-fruits of several
orchards.
As Dr. Phantom bowled along in his
nicely-shaded carriage his eyes lingered
on the signs of an earlier optimism, on
many a phalanx of raspberries, on plan-
tations of gooseberries, and ordered bat-
talions of ripe strawberries. A parti-
cularly fine crop of these last delectable
berries punctuated the undertaker’s
neatly-kept plot with bright red nodules
nestling on straw. It was an age when
straw laid down on the roadway paid its
sympathetic tribute to the difficulty of
producing the coming generation, and
discreetly muffled the departure of age;
and straw was plentiful.
On this garlanded highway, where even
the hedges were bright with rose-haws, the
g ° od j OCtor ex P er ienced the pleasure
attorded to a reasoning man by the con-
temptation of a universe based on reason,
He passed the chain-gang, knocking
out °*
t i hey t. a -j e d » es^ mg , stone for the repair
or the bridge, he (rightly) concluded.
He skirted the milkman’s trotting cart,
W P leasant Jy recalled to him the hip-
waddles of a Zulu belle. The cart was
pamted yellow and a scarlet scroll was
ciphered with the words, Families sup-
plied twice daily.
“He is delivering the late-afternoon
milk,” Dr. Phantom instinctively realised.
That, too, was a reasonable conjecture,
though the statement on the cart was
perhaps cryptic to the uninitiated,
j us t outside Parramatta he observed the
v j car entering Mrs. Furbelow’s lean-to.
« T he latest a | dition t 0 that widow ’ s
famil of twenty is about to pass non .
t through this Vale of Tears”-such
wa s his natural inference: he was right,
. •,, A M „
A sight that baffled his intelligence as
h u is Hyde Park clattered to a standstill by
out^ ld ? bis partner s brass-
Pl ated > three-stoned, yellowstone hous
wa ? th ® apparition of seven little boys
and girls of ages ranging from four to,
P er baps, ten, each holding in their
trembling hands a black papier mache
basm, each standing on a separate step
°/ tb® stone stairway that led down to the
slowly-meandering waters of the Lane
Gove River.
His first thought had been Whoopmg-
cough.” But “No,” he reminded him-
self, “I should have been the first to have
been informed of any such epidemic,
E found his partner Dr Boisragon
H (pronounced standing on
the step of the flight. He looked
ve He looked even more stem than
fU, and his handso™.face^
g d .. T g h h o ' u }, he ‘ w h as dre b ssed
, .., ooromom, o r,,n
with his accustomed ceremony m a tull-
, • a
sknted marine-blue trogged coat, with
yellow nankeen breeches, nicely moulded
’ver Wellington boots own
(almost famous) legs, with a thick, gold,
bemedalled watch-chain caressing a buff
waistcoat, a black satin stock meticulously
folded under 'white linen points, and a
stovepipe hat cocked sideways, as he
always wore it, he might almost have been
going to a funeral; to the obsequies of
the victim of someone else’s rapacity or
incompetence.
“The grapes,” Dr. Phantom explained,
handing him the larger of the two baskets,
which he had carried from the Hyde
Park, “are from the Widow Plunkett; the
pears are selected from a basket given to
me by Mr. Jarvey, in recognition of the
pretty compliments I paid him on his
wall-fruit; the greenish apples are from
Granny Smith, whose cottage near Castle
Hill I passed in pursuit of a ruined
stomach and a case' of mumps out at
Hornsby Junction.”
Accepting the basket. Dr. Boisragon
touched the grapes reverently with his
sensitive hands—he had a surgeon’s
hands—“ The bloom!” he marvelled,
“How does nature do it? Is it an
efflorescence? Is it a quintessential
patina?”
He set the heavy basket down on the
parapet beside him and broke off a
sizeable bunch of muscatels.
“I must confess my ignorance! ” Medi-
tatively Dr. Phantom peeled with his
equally-sensitive fingers a Yellow Monday
peach of august proportions. “No one,
to my knowledge, has conducted research
into the mysteries of the bloom on fruit,
It may be a sort of attar of perfection,
like the fragrant scum one may skim off
a tank of rose-water. It may be a fructual
halo or nimbus, like that bright mani-
festation of holiness which (we are in-
formed) accumulates round the
heads of saints.”
He savored his golden-fleshed
peach.
“These,” Dr, Boisragon mur-
mured, converting another grape
to a corporate Christianity, “are
gifts from the Gods of Plenty.
What a country is ours! Begging
the question of the scientific nature
of bloom, I can rejoice in the
luxuriance that showers on us such
a prodigality of gifts.”
He took a bunch of white musca-
dines from the diminishing heap.
“But I am a sad man. I have
a heavy heart. lam too conscious
of the serpent in our Eden, of the
wickedness of the almost irreclaim-
able young.”
HE sighed heavily, and with an
absent mind voiced the opinion
that “the muscadine is, perhaps,
the best white grape. Its juice is
so pleasantly insinuating in texture,
its flavor is so ethereal a mixture of
sharp and sweet, its bouquet (if one
might call it so) is of so subtle an aroma.”
Dr. Phantom chose an apricot. (It was
an abricot persique.)
“Yes. In this glorious Eden I am con-
fronted by a vision of sin in its most
loathsome aspect. Error in its most
leprous form.”
“Dear me,” Dr. Phantom agreed easily
and without due attention. “You are
having a jollification? A romp-a-way for
your children? Who are the visitors?”
Dr. Boisragon was eating a plum—a
White Nutmeg.
Dr. Phantom took a bunch of Black
Frontiniacs.
“The three immature females in tartans
and plaits are the indigent McMurthies,
my poor sister’s brood. The boy and
girl standing on the steps just below them,
whom I have heard referred to as ‘the
coppertops,’ are my unfortunate Aunt
Theodora’s grandchildren, Donalbain and
Juliet McCree. With my own hopefuls,
James and Grizel, you have been
acquainted from their birth.”
The glances Dr. Boisragon cast on
each child as he named them were dour in
the extreme.
ADDUCE sea-breeze, a zephyr faintly
tinctured with ozone and spiced with
salt, which daily, about this hour, found
its way up the estuary, stirred the
hitherto placid waters of the river into
infinitesimal wavelets, and blew the little
girls’ skirts about, flapping them like
wings against their ankle-length culottes.
A number of seagulls, their presence so
far inland perhaps presaging storm, were
dipping and wheeling about the surface
of a patch of ruffled water which, in the
deeper reaches, hinted at a shoal of fish.
A group of saplings that dotted the
sloping lawn right down to the water’s
edge also swayed and rustled, and their
lively branches reminded Dr. Phantom
to inquire after “the nectarine? Is it
ripe? Did your wife enjoy it as much
as you hoped? I see it has gone.”
An expression of deeper suffering
clouded Dr. Boisragon’s already gloomy
countenance.
“My wife did not have the pleasure of
putting one tooth-mark on it. It was
stolen.” He looked desolate. “It was a
Red Roman.”
It occurred to Dr. Phantom that the
waiting group of children, hugging their
black basins, looked, if possible, greener
about the gills, and though he did not
care for children he averted his gaze from
the rows of suffering, upturned faces.
“Stolen? A bat? A parrot? Mr.
Jarvey told me of the depredations of
many flocks of rosellas or parrakeets —or
was it lorilets?”
Half-sated, Dr, Phantom ventured on a
jargonelle.
“It was stolen,” Dr. Boisragon re-
iterated simply, dropping a handful of
pips into a garden urn. “I inspected it at
three o’clock, when we assembled on the
lawn for our festivity. I decided to allow
it one more hour of sunshine before giv-
ing it to my wife. Noticing how warm
the sun had become, I went, an hour later,
to pluck it —it had vanished. Under the
tree? On the slope? Not a vestige.”
He sternly regarded the upturned rows
of suffering faces.
“I questioned the children closely.
They all denied having stolen it.”
Dr. Phantom ran a physician’s dis-
cerning eye over the greening faces.
“Are the children sickening for some-
thing, do you think?”
“They are.” Dr. Boisragon’s tone was
succinct. “I gave them an emetic. Nature,
never lies. Indubitably I shall soon find
out who stole—and ate —my nectarine.”
‘ I CT URELY, by observation, you might
have detected the guilty child?
Children are transparent enough? I once
met a fraudulent financier. What struck
me at the time was the complete absence
of all experience in his blue eyes. He
looked as guileless as a child. Knowing
nothing about his defalcations, I said
‘That young gentleman has something to
hide’—and he had, too! Look at those
faces! The girls in tartan have eyes as
black as sloes, without even a highlight
on the pupils. I know that type. To learn
how they feel —look at their mouths.”
The two doctors observed the three
tremulous mouths.
“I should say those girls were
innocent.”
“Deduction is well enough in its way.
I prefer the certainty of the scientific
method.”
“Your boy James is like you. Is he
six?”
“Yes.”
“I’d rule him out. By this time he
would have learnt not to risk displeasing
you.”
Though glad of this opinion of his
son’s probable innocence Dr. Boisragon
was not certain that he liked the inference.
“As for the coppertops, they are both
suffering so acutely that their queasiness
must soon take an active turn ...”
It did.
Their breakdown was the signal, it
seemed, for which everyone had been
waiting. Seven black basins bore witness
to the efficacy of Dr. Boisragon’s emetic.
Dr. Phantom was just remarking, “It
strikes me that there is a guilty know-
ledge, a hint of a hidden appeal to one’s
sympathy, in the squirrel-like eyes of the
girl-copper top” when her basin
demonstrated her guilt.
The regurgitation of the skin of a Red
Roman nectarine was proof of it. %
“Judith McCree, you are both a thief
and a liar.”
Dr. Boisragon had never been mo r e
impressive.
“You wicked child! What have you to
say to ekplain your downright lie?”
HE was forced to wait till she was
capable of answering.
“What excuse do you offer for your
felony?”
“Felony, Uncle Peter?”
“How do you excuse your theft of my
nectarine?”
“I didn’t steal it.”
Even Dr. Phantom looked shocked at
such depravity.
“What —do you deny it? In the face
of such evidence as that basin holds?”
“I just took it; I didn’t steal it.”
“To take what is not your own is steal-
ing-” u,
“But I didn’t think it was not —she
retched —“was not” —she was violently
ill—“was not”—she had scarcely got her
breath when another paroxysm overtook
her—“was not”—Dr. Phantom turned
away his eyes —“was not mine/
That innocence was no shield from
suffering was being aptly demonstrate
by the six other children, who were
noisily and liberally contributing to thei
black basins. , '
“Wicked sinner! Look about you.
Through your obstinate denial or Y°
guilt you have caused great suffering
your young relatives —poor mnoce
children! Does that not shame you.
Does that not soften you?”
Dr. Boisragon grew more angry.
“Do you persist in saying you oia
lie to me?” his
He took his pocket-book out o
buff waistcoat-pocket. ,
T will run through the notes I „
when questioning you! Here tlh e Y a ’,
He flicked a page. “‘Judith M •
My question—‘Did you steal tny „
Roman? ’ Answer—‘No, Un c ,e d
He snapped the elastic-band back a
put the book in his pocket.
“I said, ‘Remember, child, your h P«
of Heaven hangs on your answer>
the truth!. Did you speak the trut


You again answered, 'Yes, Uncle Peter !
What perfidy! To rob your dear aunt of
" gift! The fruit I had watched from
Z bud up! What do you mean,
wretched liar, in saying you did not know
J was not your nectarine? It grew on my
•‘There are so many things everywhere,
an d I don’t quite know who owns every-
thing it’s all so puzzling, Uncle Peter,
because when I filled my bucket with
and no one said I had stolen it, and
when I dipped my mug in the river no
one said I was not to steal the river, and
when we pick blackberries and mush-
rooms along the road or in the paddocks
no one calls us thieves, and I’m only
a little girl, Uncle Peter, and I don’t
rightly know the way to get things that
don’t belong to me, like you and Dr.
Phantom, and I don’t know whose sea-
gulls they are, neither.”
She again had recourse to her basin.
“What! Dreadful child! Do you
accuse us of theft?”
“Oh, no. Uncle Peter; it’s not quite
like that; but you can get the things you
want without stealing them, and you know
what things belong to other people, and
I don’t yet, but I will try and learn,
indeed I will.”
“What a depraved mind! ”
“But you see you know what is free,
and what you must pay for. I did hear
the sound you were making with your
words, Uncle Peter, but I did not under-
stand what the noise you made really
meant; and if you could please explain
to me how you got the fruit in the baskets,
and didn’t pay for it, and didn’t really
steal it, I mean, if it was someone else’s,
and you did not have to pay for it, will
you teach me how to get things that are '
someone else’s, and not pay?”
She suffered an attack of dry retching
that was quite spectacular. *
THE six other children had filled their
1 basins and waited, white of face and
wet of eye.
“Empty your basins jn the river, my
bairns, and then wash your hands and
faces and go into the dining-room for tea.
Since you have been proved to be
innocent, you may have two pieces each
of the iced birthday cake Cook-Jane has
made James. But, before you go, take
leave of your cousin Judith MeCree, for
it is the last time that —with my approval
and permission—you will ever speak to
her. If God spares me, she shall never
again darken my doors. Wicked, wicked
child!”
“Good-bye, Juliet,” the children mur-
mured, awe-struck, walking uncertainly
past her, their black papier machd basins
carefully carried in their weak hands ;
they had all been very sick ; the emetic
had been a powerful one, though slow,
perhaps, in starting.
Juliet went dutifully down to the water’s
edge and emptied her basin into the Lane
Cover River, and, in going up to the
house to wash, she lagged well behind
her cousins; not that she suffered from
any sense of guilt, but because she appre-
ciated the drama of the occasion.
While awaiting her return Dr. Bois-
ragon remarked genially to his partner :
“It is an extraordinary thing that the ex-
pulsion of food —with us —should require
so much effort. I believe that the Romans
before a banquet tickled the back of their
throats and emptied their stomachs. They
must certainly have practised regurgita-
tion as an art, for they were a civilised
people, and I imagine that the hall of
Augustus, the house of Maecenas, the
villas of Horace and Cicero, could hardly
have presented such unbridled scenes as
those we have just witnessed? They must
surely have been nicer in their method of
vomiting?”
Dr. Phantom ran an eye over the row
of lace curtains that draped the windows
of the square, yellowstone house behind
them.
“The ladies of your household?” he
inquired. “How is it they were not
present?”
As a matter of fact he had several times
noticed the agonised faces of Dr. Bois-
mgon’s three old aunts. Miss Loveday,
Miss Tabitha and Miss Matilda, peering
through the lace in an upstairs window.
“I can’t understand,” he mused, “why
his womenkind left those unhappy
children to my dear friend’s untender
mercies. They must, by this time, know
what he is like?”
He said this to himself, but as if reply-
ing to him Dr. Boisragon broke off from
his classical conjectures to say “My dear
wife was prostrate! She was inclined to
be hysterical, so I ordered her off to her
room to lie down for an hour. My aunts,
too, attempted to gloss over an incident
which they considered trivial —in their
sentimental way! Poor old dears! I
ordered them indoors, and T will discuss
the matter with them tonight.”
| ULIET came back, her face shining
with tears and soap, her red hair so
wet that it was almost black, drawn oft
her forehead with two combs; she had
tried to hide the stains on her apron by
rolling it round her elbows, with the
result that an unfaded patch on her green
check cotton dress showed how well
worn it had been.
The child looked peaked and hungry.
She had left her brother, who was four,
happily eating bread and butter enriched
with “hundreds and thousands,” and she
could see the glow of candles round the
cake, and the six other children laughing
and talking round the table, while the
three great-aunts, having, as it were, come
into their own, were busy “making it up
to” the infant martyrs.
Juliet’s straw hat (from China) was
swinging from her arm by a green'ribbon,
and her reddening curls, which, as her
hair dried, resumed their gloss, were seen
against a background of pale river-water
and the brackish hillside on the farther
bank ; the salt seemed to have cured the
hanging leaves of the grey-boled trees;
and it encrusted, too, the pool-brightened
yellow rocks ; the sky was purely Tuscan,
as Dr. Phantom had already noted.
Dr. Boisragon, when Juliet joined them,
at once returned to the pursuit of Truth.
“Do you not realise, Juliet, that had I
not hit on the expedient of interrogating
nature herself six innocent children
might, all their lives, have lived under the
stigma of theft —of being thieves? And
this foTyour crime? Do you not realise
the enormity of your sin against society?”
“But, don’t you see, Uncle Peter, it is
only you who see anything wrong in it?
When Papa goes shooting duck —whose
duck does hp shoot? And when you go
fishing, whose fish do you catch? And
you know perfectly well what God said
to Adam, Uncle Peter —he gave him the
earth, as far as I can make out. And
whether I took a Red Roman, or any of
the others took a Red Roman, it is only
a person like you, who thinks so much
of owning a thing, who makes a sin of it.
It is just the natural thing to do.”
“Then, being naturally a thief, you are,
naturally, a liar?”
“Oh, no, Uncle Peter, I did not think I
was a thief. So of course I was not a
liar. Don’t you see, naturally, there is
no such thing as sin, it is only when«sonie
men who don’t understand what God'said
begin making their own rules that they
invent sin. Uncle Peter. I expect, if you
thought a little about it, you would soon
see that this is the Truth. It is just grown-
ups who invent wickedness, and then
accuse innocent children of it.”
“Hopelessly casuist! Irreclaimably
evil! A dangerous liar, a thief! I see,
Juliet, that no Christian teaching that I
can give is likely to reclaim you! I shall
write a letter for you to take back to your
parents —what sort of home life yod can
have baffles my imagination. Wait,
wicked girl, wait! Phantom, watch her,
if you please! Be careful to allow her
no intercourse with any member of my
family.”
Dr. Boisfagon walked majestically up
the tree-dotted green slope to his four-
square yellowstone house, where a shaded
lamp in Mrs. Boisragon’s bedroom
showed that she was still “resting,” and
where the flickering candles in the dining-
room, reddening still more gaily the
crimson rep of the curtains, showed that
the birthday-party was still in progress.
AS soon as Dr. Boisragon’s back was
turned Juliet slapped her flat
stomach and said conversationally, “I’m
like a tympanum, empty and noisy as a
drum —just you listen!”
She twanged her thin body again—it
certainly gave out a hollow moaning
sound
Dr. Phantom gave her a very cool
direct look from eyes that had so far
avoided any direct encounter with her
own brightly sparkling copper-colored
glance. It was, perhaps, more the
squirrel’s tanny coat than its wildwood
eye that (as he had at first considered)
her lively regard had evoked.
“Not quite hollow,” Dr. Phantom re-
joined with meaning.
Juliet blushed. She really looked quite
lovely, her small. Titian-bright head set
trimly against a skyey nimbus of Tuscan
S °“What do you mean?” she asked
cautiously.
Dr Phantom leant towards her and
took, from a fold in her white bib, two
or three carraway seeds and a few crumbs.
“Dry,” he explained. “They were not
there when you went up to the house to
Wa “Oh, those? Oh, I just asked Cook-
Jane for a piece of cake; I was simply
starving.” After considering her com-
panion for a few minutes in silence she
asked, “Don’t you think I took the best
line with Uncle Peter?”
“I thought it clever enough.
Looking relieved, Juliet drew closer.
“I just didn’t have a chance of thinking
it out» We were playing at murdering the
Duke, when James suddenly caught sight
of the nectarine we’d been hearing so
much about, and called out—“ First in
gets the Holy Globe! ” And we all started
running down the slope and shouting out
“Bags I the Holy Globe! ” It was a great
lark really, and I got there first; I only
beat Victoria McMurthie by the edge
of a hair-ribbon, as you might say ; so I
had it, but of course we all shared it.
Everyone had a bite! But I had the skin,
mostly, and of course that showed more.”
“Then all the children were equally
guilty ? T ’
“But don’t you see, we don’t think it’s
guilty?”
“The fact remains that since you stole
something you have the world against
you? People think theft the meanest of
crimes.”
“But Mama brings back a few hairpins
every time she goes to her club, and Papa
carries home some envelopes and note-
paper every time he visits his club in
Sydney, and I wouldn’t mind betting, Dr.
Phantom, that I could catch you out in a
theft of some sort if I gave my mind to
it.”
A MERE flutter of dismay, a fraction
of alarm, passing across his face as
swiftly as the shadows made by the sea-
gulls’ wings on the darkening water, for
the sun was now due west and as red
as an apple, told Juliet that she might, as
she put it, “be on to something.”
Jumping up and down and clapping her
hands the dreadful child pressed home
her advantage.
“Will you let me search you? That
would be a perfectly fair test.”
She sprang towards him.
But he kept her at bay with a grip of
iron.
“No, no! I never heard of such a
thing! What cheek! ”
Dr. Phantom shed ten years of his
dignity at least as, laughing and red in
the face, he struggled with the lively
Juliet.
“A prize! A prize!” shouted that
exasperating child, wild with excitement.
“I shall find a spoon! One of Lady
Mary’s salt-cellars! ”
The tussle was really incredibly brisk!
Juliet’s darting attacks, first at one pocket,
then at another, were quite spectacular in
their success.
“A case-book!”
“Mine!”
“A purse!”
“Mine!”
“A pencil!”
“Mine!”
“Bitten at the end!” gasped Juliet
breathlessly, putting it back as she
whirled, wriggled, twirled.
“A key! Two keys! Three keys!”
“Mine! Mine! Mine!”
“A love-letter! ”
“No, no, a bill! ” He clutched it.
“Ah, ha! ” Juliet wrenched herself free,
doubled up with laughter.* “A prize! A
prize! Whose handkerchief is this, you
wicked thief?”
As Dr. Phantom rushed after her she
doubled and dodged round the saplings.
“Whose? Whose?”
“You dreadful child! Give me that
handkerchief this instant! ”
Catching a moment when her hardly
less agile opponent had slipped in, skim-
ming too quickly round *a juniper, Juliet
read the name on the bit of scented lawn,
her treasure.
“Aminta Wirraway ! Oh, Dr.
Phantom! Oh, you wicked thief! Bad,
bad, man! I^.shall tell your mother!
Does that poor girl know you have stolen
her new Irish linen”
“Do I understand,” asked Dr. Bois-
ragon, joining the struggling pair, and
judging as usual by appearances, “that
this depraved child has actually stolen
your handkerchief?”
Silence.
Dr. Phantom pulled down his yellow
waistcoat and rebuttoned his hip-pocket.
He looked blankly at Juliet.
“No, of course she hasn’t,” he blurted
out, getting back his lost breath.
He Ipoked appealingly at Juliet.
She sniffed at the scented square of
pink lawn.
“I was just guessing what kind of scent
Dr, Phantom uses,” she said meekly. * T
think it must be Opopomax or Alderman’s
Bouquet.”
“The only perfumes allowable for male
use are Florida-water and eau-de-
Cologne. I myself use Florida-water.”
He addressed himself entirely to Dr.
Phantom, ignoring Juliet. “As a bachelor,
you might conceivably be permitted a
sprinkling of verbena; it is slightly
astringent and not too tropical.”
Juliet put the handkerchief back in Dr.
Phantom’s breast-pocket.
“Over your heart,” she whispered,
DR. BOISRAGON turned his attention
to her.
“Juliet McCree,” he announced por-
tentously, “I have in this letter informed
your parents of your incredible perfidy.
That you, a girl of eleven, should steal in
a house where your lightest request, if not
granted, would at least have been con-
sidered, that you should, when detected
in thaf theft, lie, and, that having lied in!
the most barefaced manner —in the plain j
proof of your falsehood—that you should;
persist, by the most Jesuitical casuistry, l
in asserting your innocence, has so
shocked me, so outraged my Jeelings, that
I feel compelled to forbid ’you ever to
enter my house again. My house, or
grounds” He looked meaningly at Juliet.
With a humble and gentle expression
his niece stepped forward and took the
letter he extended to her.
“Good-bye, Uncle Peter,” she said
sadly, and she dropped him the charity
bob she had been taught to use when
farewellinggor greeting her elders.
“If Dr. Phantom would be so kind as
to send you home in his Hyde Park —-
should the Murderer pot object to your
company—l would be much obliged to
him.”
“Oh, certainly, sir, certainly!” Dr.
Phantom was all complaisance. “I will
remove everything of value, and give my
coachman due warning of her weakness.
There is a second basket of fruit”
The trio walked across the shadowed
lawn to the Hyde Park, which drooped
by the kerb in the warm windless air, for
the sea-breeze had expended Its energy
and a glowing sun, cut across the middle
by twin towers, was pouring its hot rays
through the stripe'd valance and neatly-
tied-back curtains. Juliet was surprised to
find “First Murderer” asleep in the driving
seat; she had hardly expected that
murderers could sleep, but it was still
oppressively warm, and even the piebald
Waler in his straw sun-hat snuffled his
nostrils and stamped his hooves and
whisked his cream tail with less than his
usual verve.
“I am sending a duplicate letter by
post,” Dr. Boisragon mentioned to Dr.
Phantom, intending Juliet to hear.
“Should anything happen to my first
missive, her poor parents will learn of
her wicked conduct by the first post on
Monday.”
“I think you are so wise,” Dr. Phantom
rejoined, also intending Tuliet to hear.
“What a disaster it would be if her parents
did not know what a hardened criminal
their daughter is!”
And in the most ostentatious manner
he removed the basket of pears from the
vehicle. Their aroma was almost as heady
as wine; the heat had brought out their
delicious, yet not cloying, fragrance.
“A pear is, perhaps, the most delicate
of all fruits,” Dr. Boisragon’s elegant
hand hovered, “A Beurrd du Roi?”
He tasted.
“Yes. I thought I could not been mis-
taken! The skin —paler than the finest
champagne! The shape—symmetrical, yet
slightly squat! If one should apply so
bald a word to so desirable a form!
Pipless! Indeed the faultless fruit!”
With a grave propriety, settling her
checked green skirts, folding her hands
neatly in her lap, .crossing her thin ankles
in their white culottes, and having at last
assumed her green-ribboned straw bat
(from China), Judith took her place beside
“First Murderer” in the Hyde Park, while
he, having saluted his master with two
fingers, and flicked the Waler’s piebald
back with his long whip, urged the animal
to the pace which was, in those days, de-
scribed as a “spanking trot.”
As they were moving off Dr. Phantom
overheard Juliet saying in an easy and
conversational manner to “First Mur-
derer” : “I am not quite in your class, of
course, but this afternoon I have been
proved to be both a thief and a liar, and
as one criminal to another I should very
much like your advice, as a more ex-
perienced” He heard no more.
He was, however, surprised to find him-
self (since he did not care for children)
envying “First Murderer.”
< i A T this time of the evening”—Dr.
/v Boisragon took Dr. Phantom's
arm —“it is pleasant to sit on the steps
facing the water, where one occasionally
gets a puff of sea-air, and since the
children’s party is in full swing in the
house, let us linger here for an hour
or so before going indoors.”
The partners took their places on the
steps, where the basket of mixed fruits
still adorned the parapet; and Dr.
Phantom, having set his own basket of
pears down by his side, made an incision
in a Golden Pear of Xaintonge with
thirty-two sharp white teeth.
“I have been thinking over that de-
praved girl’s case,” Dr. Boisragon mur-
mured, having embarked on a second pear.
“I see that her first sin—theft—was the
cause of her second sin—lying —but,
delving more deeply into the cause of her
crimes, I am of the considered opinion
that the child’s inability to control her
carnal appetite was the primal reason for
her downfall. That girl is a glutton!
Did you notice the way she kept eyeing
these grapes?” r . ,
He broke off a bunch of his favorite
muscadines. . .
“Yes, I did,” Dr. Phantom rejoined,
averting his eyes.


visiting him and death repulsed, one was
not surprised at any turn life might take.
And Ernie, castigating, would be almost
reduced to tears. It was not to be be-
lieved, this obtuseness, this acceptance of
everything that happened.
There was a great chuckle along the
Valley and few expressions of disap-
proval when the Waddells sealed the in-
cident by publicly announcing through
the medium of a four-shilling notice in
the Brookvale “Register” that they were
grateful to those connected with the re-
cent saving of their son Claude from
drowning. This was considered a clever
move, a triumph in strategy. Coinci-
dental, of course, was the near-by adver-
tisement of Rogers and Son, General
Storekeepers, announcing the sale of new
ten-gallon milk-drums, non-spillage type.
But as Mr. Weidel rarely read papers,
he probably missed that gem. He did
realise, however, that his chances of being
compensated had faded. He did not miss
the failure of the Governor-General to
pin a medal upon his breast and read a
fine citation. The Press had forgotten
him, being interested in foreign affairs
and the major event of the coming
annual show, so that Mr. Weidel con-
tinued to mourn, on his hillside farm,
the saddening duplicity of human nature.
A ND then, one evening, Claude, at the
usual time, rumbled up to the dairy
slightly excited, urging Bonny along at
unusual pace. Instead of picking up his
neighbor’s cans he jumped from the cart
and clanged to the concrete three ten-
gallon cans.
Mr. Weidel came running from his
dairy. At first he thought they were his
own cans, but on closer inspection he
found them to be of a different type, the
coveted non-spilling variety. No, they
were not his own. He was sad.
And Claude beamed, Claude, whose
smiles were rare. “There you are,
Ernie,” he said proudly. “That’s to make
up for the cans he never gave you.
Claude gestured contemptuously towards
his father’s house.
“No!” said Ernie. This he could not
believe. He continued to stare at the
young neighbor.
“Got ’em at Brady’s sale,” Claude said
proudly. “Got ’em for almost nothing, 1
did.” He stood there, pondering lovingly
the cans he had bid for, feeling again
the excitement of competing with experi-
enced bidders. “Mind you, he apolo
gised, though not meaning it,
mightn’t be as good”
He got no further. “Claude,” shouted
Mr. Weidel. “Oh, Claudey.” He wasted
to hug Claude, great oafish cl^ ude ’ ...
knew that the young man would not uk
that, so in his excitement all he cod
was run around the cans, patting
lovingly, lifting the lids, look:i g .
them, replacing the lids and not .
the few bumps here and there received m
the course of their lifetimes.
After a time the grinning Cm
pushed his hat to the back of is ’
rubbed his forehead and reckon
better be going. With that heir fJ.
full cans of milk on to his cart, de
by the excited Mr. Weidel. Th C
took his farewell, occasionally g
back with proud and loving lo
three cans by the dairy door.
P RNIE, for his part, was torn be^
t-' the desire to look at the
and handle them and t 0 in
boy who had restored hi n 0
humanity. But after a time final
longer contain .himself,_ and wit be
wave to the driver of the rawing
dashed forward, seized a can and
running with it towards the > cry j ng
ing his glad news as he went and
“Mary! Mary! Come and see.„
Mary, the cans, the cans, th
The Prinsical Poach
By
FLEXMORE
HUDSON
TONY was slight, wiry
and indefatigable ; and
never still; he had
laughing eyes as black
as his curly hair and a
face so vivaciously versa-
tile in expression that it
was hard to tell just what
shape his features were.
Peter liked him best of
of all the boys he knew.
Not only was Tony the
same age—seven —but he was the
same height, and he enjoyed do-
ing the very same things; he
never tired of digging the hole in the
backyard and pretending they were
working in a goldmine ; and he under-
stood, without being told, that a pine-tree
was the mast of a ship one moment, the
cabin of a railway engine the next, and
a smugglers’ cdve in the cliffs a little
later.
When he was with Tony, Peter felt
bigger, gayer and more reckless; he
would impulsively give cheek to the older
boys, or pull a face like a tiki’s at some
little girl walking, hand in hand with her
mother, along the street.
Often, skylarking in the forbidden pine
and looking down on the flowering
magnolia, he would feel a queer, almost
dizzying rush of joy to his heart, a
tingling, a bubbling that warmed him
inside and set him swaying the tree-top,
shouting nonsense and laughing so
boisterously that his mother would call
out from the kitchen: “Stop that silly
showing-off! ”
But Tony at such times joined in the
fun so spontaneously that Peter knew he,
too, was bursting with that wild exulta-
tion. For Peter that feeling was the
music his uncle played on his violin at
night; it was a white albatross circling
a lonely ocean reef; a schooner, in a
storm, heeling over as she scudded, full
and by, past Rangitoto ; a burning to be
off on extravagant adventures like Dick
Whittington or Buffalo Bill; an en-
chanted light on all the world in which
even the silly old chooks looked
beautiful ; and an assurance that nothing
bad could happen to him —ever.
Peter’s mother, watching them capering
about, often complained to her husband
(an austere clergyman) that Tony
“brought out the devil” in their son.
Bu it was no good complaining ; the two
were inseparable.
The little fellows’ favorite game
consisted of describing things with
sonorous, mellifluous gibberish invented
on the spur of the moment, for both of
them revelled in using big words.
“That’s a whoppantulous shakyation !”
Peter would whisper as a fat lady
waddled by.
“Ssh!” Tony would reply immediately,
pulling a monkey-face, “Remare her
bumpery hydrangeas!”
Whereupon both would burst into
laughter.
OFTEN they spent an hour after school
riding at the back of carts ; hanging
by their hand from a dray or a wagon, and
crouching on the bottom step of a green-
grocer’s van, with
their heads kept low:
and when they
dropped off they used
to hoot at the driver:
“Willy, willy, whip
behind! ”
One afternoon they
were walking
stealthily home, in
Indian file, on the
footpath, serpentining because they were
warriors on a winding forest trail. But
besides being Injuns they were being
themselves, so Peter intoned over his
shoulder:
“We’re goin’ ho-ome!”
“Mutton-bone!” chimed Tony anti-
phonally.
“See y’ later!”
“Chipped potater!”
“Good-bye, my eye!”
“Shooting Pookackies up the Boo-
high ! ”
With a laugh, Peter, abandoning his
Indian role for a moment, turned round
to shoot Tony, and saw a large wagon
coming abreast of them on the opposite
side ; a low one, the very kind for little
boys to swing from, and drawn by a
high-stepping, aristocratic draugnt with a
bqbtail tied in a red ribbon.
“Gee, what a corker!” he cried.
Since their teacher that day had read
them a story about a princess whose
coach was pulled by dapple-greys, the
words: “A prinsical poach!” fairly
bubbled from Tony’s lips as he darted
impulsively across the road.
Peter followed, a few yards in the rear,
and was about to sing out some new
words to describe the bouncing grey
when he stopped short, paralysed, and
stared with horror at a black car which
was roaring down the hill and nearly
upon them ; he noticed it was a Ford,
a single-seater, and that its cranking-
handle was swinging wildly from side to
side.
He wanted to dash back, but his legs
felt as though they were planted in the
ground.
Its tyres screeching, the car swerved to
passi between the children. It seemed to
Peter that it was deliberately steering for
his friend.
“Tony!” he screamed.
The black-haired youngster whirled
round, stood petrified for a moment and
was on the point of running back when
the car struck him ; the handle tossed
him into the air; he hit the cement road
with a smack like the smashing of a huge
egg.
FEELING that it was suddenly cold and
very late, Peter ran, on legs that
would hardly work, and stared down at
the still body, Tony’s head was split
open. (“His brains!” Peter thought.
“Like at the butcher’s!”) Blood was
streaming from his head and from his
belly.
Peter could not move. The car and the
road were rushing away into a grey mist' 1
that gradually darkened; then the
clammy darkness swirled: and just as he
felt himself falling, it changed to grey
and then back to the cold light in which
loomed the black, savage monster of a
car and its mutilated prey.
Half-way up the hill he became
aware that he was running faster than
he had ever run before, and quite
effortlessly. Near the top he caught
sight of the wagon, and it seemed to him
for a moment that he saw Tony swinging
from the bar at the back. He kept
gasping: “A prinsical poach! A prinsical
poach!”
It was not till he got home that he
retched and cried. He was promptly put
to bed.
“What have you been eating?”
demanded his father anxiously.
“Some green plums
—a boy gave them
to me,” he lied, for
he could not speak
of the accident.
He was unable to
touch his tea. And
before his parents
had finished theirs he
had fallen into a
heavy sleen from
L I KJ 111
which he did not wake till he was called
for breakfast.
He forced some porridge down and
hurried off to school, arriving late
because he took a roundabout way, but
just in time to hear it announced that
Tony was dying in hospital.
Normally Peter luxuriated in describ-
ing his experiences, but this time, far
from desiring to hold the class spell-
bound, he could not whisper to any-
one what he had seen.
Twice that morning he was rapped on
the knuckles for not paying attention,
but it hardly hurt at all.
Later in the day the headmaster
entered. For once he did not joke, but
said he wanted to find the boy who had
been with Tony at the time
of the accident ; it was
most important that the
boy tell ail about how it
had happened; there
would be a huge prize for
him.
teeter broke mto a cold
sweat and began to
tremble. He straggled to
put up his hand. He
could not. Fie opened
his trembling mouth to call out some-
thing —anything, to draw tne head-
master’s attention. But he could not
utter a sound.
Presently the old man, shaking his
head sadly, left the room.
Next day the • same thing happened.
Then no one spoke of Tony for a long,
long time.
AFTER a few months Peter ceased to
hear the ternbie ‘smack on the
cement. He made friends with Kenny
Whittle, who had a brand-new red bike
and an album full of stamps ; but from
time to time he would look at Kenny’s
natty grey suit and his expressionless
round face and think: “What a siss!”
Kenny was very serious; he was
impatient of Peter’s tendency to pass off
a stray collie as an escaped circus tiger,
and not even two cap-guns at his hips
could make him keen on crawling
through the wet lupins to attack a Maori
pah.. When Peter confided his word-
making game he objected: “But that’s
just silly!” And next morning he greeted
Peter with:
“My father says there’s no such word
as ‘puddingous’!”
At such times Peter would yearn for
his old friend and wonder whether he
was buried in the ground, yet he could
not bring himself to ask anyone for news
of him —that was impossible. Not any-
one at all.
Months dragged by.
And then one morning the head-
master came into the classroom and
said:
“Children, Tony Ballantyne will be
here next lesson. Now, he’s been
terribly sick, and you must all be ve™
kind to him And,” he hesitated S
doctor says he will have to learn a fot
of his work again. Now, you must
never tease him about this.” *
Peter could hardly breathe. He knew
then that it was because of Tonv\
absence that the school had seemS
ghosty like their empty house before
furniture had armed.
He dreamed of their meeting. As
soon as he said: “How are you Tonv'?’’
back would flash the old, secret renlv-
“Bellybutton bony!” would nL
ships in the pine again, and hide in the
hedge with new pea-shooters and pepper
the bare legs that flickered past on the
footpath. He smiled to himself.
DLAYTIME come, Peter, first to finish
1 his sums, was first out of the room
And there was Tony, standing still at the
bottom of the yard.
Shouting “Tony!” he ran across to
him.
Tony looked at him listlessly and said
slowly:
“Hul-lo!”
“How are you, Tony?” he asked
breathlessly.
His friend replied very deliberately, as
an infant reading from his first primer:
“I’m all—right—now. Are you—in
—my —class?”
Peter gaped at him. He saw a Tony
with a pale face that was stiff and
wooden as a girl’s doll, with eyes that
were dull and hands that hung limply.
A face with a look more “puddingous”
than Kenny’s!
Beginning to tremble, he stammered
despairingly:
“I’m Peter ; remember our goldmine?”
He faltered, disconcerted by the blank
stare:
“You know—near the —the pine-tree—
you know —at —at”
His voice dwindled into silence.
“Eh?” replied the other boy. “I’ve—
been —sick.” ,
Producing a handful of brown, clay
marbles, he added:
“Got —any —muckers?”
“Tony with muckers!” thought Peter.
Both of them had scorned anything less
than the colored “cats’-eyes” or
“glassies.”
Dumbly shaking his head, he backed
away and left Tony to the other boys
who had begun to crowd around him.
He was feeling sick, dismayed by a
mystery even more terrible than the
stillness of a bleeding body on a road.
He ran into the scrub which touched
on the back of the school-yard and,
creeping into a thicket of tall lup ins >
flung himself down on the ground. And
there, curled up as if he were in a cold
bed, he cried till he fell asleep.


BRANDTS famous TILLEY
STORM LANTERN
mm
w
I
I
I
Mi
m
300
Candle
Power
Order Now—for Winter!
Here’s a safe, reliable Lamp to
give you brilliant illumination
anywhere, under all conditions.
It has heat-resisting Glass, is
stormproof, and is solidly
made in Brass metal.
Economical and easy to ope-
rate, this famous British
KEROSENE Pressure - type
Lamp is moderately priced at
861-
CAMPING APPLIANCES.
Brandts stock pressure-pattern
Stoves, Hurricane Lamps, Wick
Stoves, etc. All spare parts
supplied.
Mail orders by return mail.
BRANDTS PTY. LTD.
APPLIANCE
SPECIALISTS
SINCE 1878
371 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. 'Phone: M 4651.
“THE GUARDSMAN’
TILLEY
STORM LANTERN
MODEL X 246
p
3T
EEZ
57
High Polished Finish in the
Modern Speculum Plated Process
Heat Resisting Durosil Glass
TILLEY.,.. LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Lamps with
the Happy
MANUFACTURED ONLY
AT HENDON, ENGLAND
BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Manufacturers* Representatives t. H. BENTLEY (PTY) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, Cl
MAIL Day
By R.E. GLASGOW
BILL HARVEY rolled out
of his blankets at pre-
cisely five of the clock in
the clear pearly light pre-
ceding sunrise. Clad only in
navy-blue bushman’s singlet, a
heavy garment made of finest
wool* he stretched comfortably
before fastening back the tent-
flap giving'access to a covered
galley. He threw some manuka-
sticks on the grey embers, and,
poking the ashes expertly,
watched the fresh fuel crackle
into life. He filled the billy
from a kerosene-tin of clear
water and swung it over the
rapidly-leaping flames, then,
squatting down on a camp-made
stool, reached for tobacco and
tissues and rolled a cigarette.
In“a bed made from tussock-
grass near the foot of Bill’s
bunk, a squat, heavy-jowled dog
watched his master’s every move,
watched through a scarcely-
visible slit of an opening over
one eye. Bill blew clouds of
smoke in the air as he pulled on
trousers and donned shirt. He
brewed tea in the billy and
squatted again.
“Ah-h,” he sighed with evi-
dent satisfaction, sipping the hot,
sweet potion.
Then the man turned to the
dog. He said, “Show a leg,
Mike me boy,
show a leg. Yer
know what terday
is well as I do.
By hell, it’s Mail
Day!”
And as if to
confirm the fact,
from his
bunk he produced
a board on which
were carved numbers represent-
ing the months and days, a com-
plicated r looking table, and
notched a mark against a certain
figure.
Bill Harvey was a killer of
wild pigs and goats on a high-
country sheep - station named
Wairuna. Wairuna covered fifty
thousand acres of country, and
the paddocks mostly stood on
end. Bill’s camp was snugged
in a gully sixteen miles from the
homestead, and the homestead
was sixty-eight miles from the
nearest township. On the fourth
Saturday of each month, fire or
flood, drought or famine, wind,
rain, hail or snow, the maiT was
delivered at the homestead by
a mounted mailman accom-
panied by his team of pack-
animals. And moreover, on the
fourth Saturday of each month,
the mailman would dump his
load at Wairuna within seconds
of two by the clock.
Mail Day was an institution.
All the outback hands would
ride into the homestead on some
pretext or other. Neither would
the casual employees—the rov-
ing population of “the bush”—
miss the event, for event it was.
The real reason of the monthly
migration was never mentioned,
never breathed ; an air of casual
carelessness was assumed gener-
ally and deceived no one.
C IGHT O’CLOCK found Bill
I —' Harvey almost ready to leave
camp. With the aid of a mirror
perched in the fork of a konini-
tree he was demolishing the last
of the wiry stubble on his chin,
using razor of the cut-throat
variety that fairly sang at its
work. His horse, caught and
saddled, cropped contentedly
near by, reins thrown Over her
head. It would take over three
hours to ride in, allowing time
for a yarn and scran at the
station cookhouse before the
mailman showed up.
The sun streamed down with
increasing intensity and every-
thing seemed ini
concord. The
near-by mountain
stream lapped and
gurgled pleas-
antly ; a great fat
native pigeon,
gorgeously
colored, non-
chalantly fed on
the bursting
konini-berries not six feet
away from Bill. Bellbirds
vied with each other in melo-
dious chorus, and all the while
Bill, as was his wont, kept up
a one-sided but not altogether
unsatisfactory conversation with
Mike, squatting close by, one
rather tentative eye on the
pigeon, thinking maybe it would
look better in the camp-oven.
“You can fergit the pork and
goats fer two days, Mike me
boy,” said the man. “Today’s
Mail Day, tomorrer’s Sunday
and washin’ day, so away we git.
And see yer don’t git fightin’
with them shepherd’s dawgs at
the station; gittin’ me inter dis-
grace an’ litterin’ up the place
with . • ...
Trisman° d hl ’ Y W 1 d
insnman.
uadtov * x
O J ° e
r - T Silvey, the station fencer,
half-way, riding in on similar
be “ t; r r, T
“wk °’ 8111 > greeted Joe.
VVnere yer makin for? ’
station, replied Bill. ‘The
packer fergot my baccy last trip,
Kunmn a bit low, 1 am. You
gom in?
Yes. Need a haircut,” he
explained.
They continued together. The
sun was high as they breasted
tbe oved 9°¥ ng tbe home-
stead flats. Buildings, like dolls’
houses nestling in toy planta-
tions, spread out on the plain
tar below woolshed and yards,
stables, cookhouse, bunkhouse
and homestead.
Forty hungry men occupied
the benches pushed round the
well-scoured board in the cook-
house for the midday meal. The
. ■
, COok was not dismayed he
knew exactly what to expect on
the .{ OUrt J? Saturday of each
?5 10nt J 1 - extra wethers had
been killed for the occasion. The
board fairly creaked with the
weight of roast pigs, shoulders,
saddles, and great dishes of
spuds and onions, a strain
quickly relieved under such
mighty assault. Then great
duffs appeared with basins of
cream and were accompanied by
the inevitable outsize enamel tea-
pots and pannikins. Bill was
twice interrupted to rescue dogs
that had run foul of Mike.
“Whatcha want ter bring that
lop-eared stump-tailed in
for, Bill?” demanded a shepherd,
Bill stood up, slowly rolled up
his sleeves revealing a pair of
hairy forearms like young tree-
trunks. He answered,
“Anyone who wants a piece
of my dawg ken have a piece of
me fust.”
A remark that was greeted
with laughing applause and an
invitation promptly declined by
the shepherd on the grounds that
the dawg might cherish similar
ideas. Give a dawg a bad name!
BY half-past one the hands
were gathered uncon-
cernedly round the station store,
scattered in groups of twos and
threes, yarning, rolling cigarettes,
shaving flakes from tobacco
plugs.
At twenty to two a faint
smudge of dust appeared far
down the valley. Not a man but
did noj; see it. Not a man that
remarked on it.
By ten to two the mailman was
clearly visible followed by his
pack-horses. The boss strolled
over from the homestead and
unlocked the office next to the
store.
At two precisely, the mailman
cantered up and lightly dis-
mounted.
“ ’Lo, boys,” he greeted. “Wot
you all adoin’ here? Hope you
left me some tucker.” His
tanned face was split by a streak
of white as he smiled.
The mailbags were dumped in
the office, and the mailman made
his way to the stables with the
horses and on to the cookhouse.
Then the boss began calling
out names, as he sorted the mail.
Some affected not to hear the
first summons and it was re-
peated. Again, nobody was de-
ceived.
“Cooper,” “Mackey,” “Living-
stone,” “Ritson,” “Takarangi,”
“Potaka,” “Clements” So
it went on.
“Harvey!” Bill ambled up
crabwise, self-consciously. The
boss handed him four “Auckland
(Continued on page 32.)


Am
IfMWUMV
IN YOON KITCHEN I
"VC.
m
i- - • -J ■
AGA
HEAT STORAGE COOKES
The Aga offers you a 24-hour service—complete
freedom from power restrictions and a guaran-
teed economy. For it is a coke-burning stove that
stores its own heat, and uses no more than a
specified, and very small quantity, of fuel The
cream-coloured, vitreous enamel finish is wonder-
fully easy to keep clean and sparkling, and the
AC.A steams, boils, roasts, toasts, deep-fries and
grills like a domesticated demon. A luxury to
own, a prudent investment to buy I
DEMONSTRATION
British-made, the AGA Cooker is guaranteed for 10
years against faulty materials or workmanship. Come
and see the AGA demonstration at our showrooms!
levin and company limited
Sole Agent, ler ACA Heat Storage Cookei
45 King Street Sydney 432 Bourlce Street. Melbourne.
13 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Cnr Margaret & Albert Streets. Brisbane
Tasmanian Agents; A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., 'Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth.
A6/168
rtfm:
m
%m
m
1
am
m
ms.'
m
F
♦
t .
TYRES
G
/00% 4ctsAra//<M .. • Cfafiffitofs of
oi 33.1t 50
Ĝ
LENT BEGINS AT CANBERRA
On Tuesday, February 21, the
eve of the meeting of the Nine-
teenth Federal Parliament, Can-
berra stood as ever, shyly blush-
ing through its trees. The bapital
has enjoyed an unusually bounti-
ful season, causing five leaves to
grow where one grew before,
with the result that the uncertain
tourist competing for passage on
the ugly wooden structure over
the Molonglo which passes for a
bridge can be pardoned if he
feels that he has come to the
wrong place and is about to ven-
ture among the overgrown ruins
of Hiroshima.
Even the magnificent bust of
Bellona which used to loom so
large on its lawn near the turn-off
into the scrub which leads to
Parliament House was almost
hidden by growth ; which w'as
perhaps just as well, since this
token of- gratitude from the
French nation for Australian ser-
vices in World War I was
adorned on the morning before
the Parliament met with a piece
of oversize feminine attire and
an inscription, in the kind of
black paint which Communists
use on walls, which read “Moral
Uplift.”
However, inspection of Parlia-
ment House proved that the
place was still alive. Inside,
its gloom was relieved by
its galleries of pictures of
statesmen, even though only
Webb Gilbert’s delightful little
bust of Alfred Deakin, so life-
like and so expressive of the
original’s character, seemed to
smile on the new members, who
had already begun to roll in
against a phalanx of messengers.
These latter poor, bewildered
fellows wore an air of flus-
tered anxiety, never knowing
what the next bus, car or air-
craft might bring forth ; never
quite sure whether the imposing
bulk which sailed up the front
stairway with the assurance of
a retired Governor - General
might not be merely a sight-
seeing commercial traveller, or
whether the insignificant figure
which came humbly forward hat
in hand might not be a future
W, M. Hughes, due in a few
months to consign messengers
to blithering blazes and trample
Stalins underfoot. Generally
there was a hushed air about the
place. #
In the party rooms one or two
“Hey, Mac! Something's Wrong with the hoist!"
early members sat about listlessly
conning their mail. The type-
writer rattled cheerfully in the
room of the Government Whip,
Mr. Joe Gullett. A Labor Min-
ister of yesteryear, in his time
almost too august to mention
by aloud in the pre-
cincts, wandered along a passage
coatless, without a shirt-collar
and with his pipe hanging out
of his mouth, before he disap-
peared startlingly into what
seemed to the accustomed
habitue of the building to be one
of the boltholes of the most ex-
alted expositors of Toryism.
This, however, was charac-
teristic of everything in the Can-
berra Parliament House in
“opening” week. It was as
if an earthquake had turned
the whole thing wrongside round.
The hallowed corners which
were the preserves of Chif, Bert,
Sol, Arthur and Eddie now
bear uncertain-looking notices
scrawled on sheets of paper and
pasted on to the smoked glass
of doors proclaiming them to be
the lairs of the' Menzieses,
Caseys, Spenders and others
whose glad but funereal-looking
raiment as yet assures them
against any outbursts of undue
familiarity by the proletariat.
After the party meetings were
over on Tuesday and the voice
of the Speaker-elect could some-
times be heard booming in cor-
ridors, some of the early shy-
ness of neophytes began to wear
off and by midnight it had com-
pletely disappeared.
It is difficult for those who are
not familiar with Canberra’s
gloomy forest even to imagine
how many different varieties
of hospitality it can offer;
still less their effects. This
is largely due to the fact
that the private cellars of Can-
berrans often run only to a single
form of tipple which they ap-
parently patent, it being entirely
different from every other kind
of tipple. This fact is apt to pro-
duce the most extraordinary vari-
ations of temperament before a
day of visitations and introduc-
tions is over. For the abste-
mious stranger who is unwary
enough to make the wrong start
—it is fortunate that only rarely
does one get beyond a “start” —
may find himself by even-
ing acting as a container for
one sample each of (a) Mc-
Kell-grown port, the only beve-
rage which a selective public ser-
vant has to offer, (b) a flask of
Rhinegold, (c) three or four as-
sorted brands of whisky, ( d) a
few schooners of mixed ale or
Pimm’s No. 4, and ( e ) cham-
pagne, sherry, brandy crusta,
manhattan, white lady and
several other cocktails provided
in whatever order is convenient
to the circulating waiters of a
generous diplomatic host. It thus
is natural, since hospitality is the
rule in Canberra, that the day
ends more brightly than it be-
gins, and that around midnight
sometimes the gloomiest prophet
of the class-war—even prophets
of the class-war being amenable
to Canberra’s heady charm—are
prepared to admit that the future
of Australia is assured under
“the Menzies Tory Govern-
ment.”
Wednesday was opening day.
The magpies sang in the morn-
ing. The brightly-dressed female
relatives of the new, and it is to
be hoped long, Parliament
looked like butterflies among
the firs and the bright-green of
the Canadian oaks which line the
avenues to Parliament House.
A businesslike air of preparation
overlaid the scene in the early
morning. Huge black Govern-
ment cars dashed in and out.
The messengers smiled on the
droves of arriving relatives of
members and patiently fobbed
off the importunities of the unen-
titled who pleaded for just one
seat and of the old ladies who
pretended to be Mr. Spender’s
grandmother or W. M. Hughes’s
maiden aunt. Military officers
planned the guard duties before
the main entrance as if they were
about to take Tokyo. Teletypes
resounded through the corridors
from the Press galleries above
and private secretaries vigor-
ously defended the approaches
to Ministerial domains.
Eventually the Houses met at
10.30 a.m. in a hush: the House
of Representatives swollen in its
numbers beyond recognition and
exhibiting the same back-to-
frontedness noticeable in the out-
side arrangements, with Mr.
Menzies in Mr. Chifley’s accus-
tomed place and Mr. Ward sit-
ting up very straight in the space
which Labor supporters had
last year hoped would be
permanently reserved for Mr.
Spender.
The presence of Mr. Casey on
the front bench gave an illusion
that the chamber had become
haunted, for he has been dead to
Parliamentary life for a decade ;
and there were some gaps in the
ranks—Mr. Dedman, and J. T.
Lang, to wit —over which no-
body seemed to mourn.
All Ministers turned out in
black coats and striped trousers,
giving the Treasury Bench a for-
mal air to which it has long
been unaccustomed, and Mr.
Jack McLeay, the brother of the
Minister for Supply and Ship-
ping, formerly Lord Mayor of
Adelaide, lent prestige to the
back benches by turning up in
i “claw-hammer” rie th„c
! Ptetdy overshadowing S S®’
petition for attention the not'
unimposing presence of a South
Australian colleague who,
regarded with awe by
members on the strength of a
rumor that he had booked no
fewer than ten sleepers 0n the
Adelaide mail train to bring over
the s r ngent ° f felat -
Dame Enid Lyons made a
splash of color in the drab ranks
of Liberalism with a charming
ensemble of grey and mauve a!
she sat on a cross-bench, across
the aisle from the august Trea
sury bench, with Mr. Francis,
the Army Minister, very
debonair, gallant and attentive
And sitting so far under a gal-
lery that he was obscured from
the gaze of the greater part of
the fluttering galleries full of
feminine gender admitted
roughly at the rate of one per
member and all garbed in a
glory appropriate to the wives of
Solomons—was an unobtrusive
figure of whom in the distance
his new Cameron tartan tic
seemed to form the greatest sec-
tion.
This was the Speaker-elect,
who presently, after the mem-
bers had been sworn-in in
batches of a dozen, was nomi-
nated amid a gloomy silence
from the Labor side of, the
House by his close friend and
fellow-Scot, Allan McDonald,
of Corangamite, seconded by
Colonel Bowden, of Gippsland,
another old war comrade.
There was the normal tension
while the glass ran down to
allow time for further nomina-
tions. Then the victim, who had
agreed to nomination in a voice
which sounded abnormally sub-
dued and nervous for him, was
conducted to the chair in a
manner traditional but of late
unusual in Australian Parlia-
ments.
It can be said for the actors
in the little play that they did
their best to observe Commons


The Australian
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Knitting, Crochet and
Needlecraft
Health Talk, Mothercraft
Serial, Short Stories and
Special Articles
On sale everywhere
Price 4d.
THE
‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY
• Company Accounts
• Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
SCea- diXrrmj
TOMATO SAUC
/ ■?
LiAjp
h
m
\v2
<&*
v2*.
Contains no artificial colouring or
flavouring. Made from the best ripe
tomatoes to retain natural colour)
// LEA PERRINS
PRODUCTION ECONOMIES
START WITH . . .
HIGH LEVEL ILLUMINATION
a
i i
X
mm
m I
Change cCer to CLAUDE COLD
CATHODE
In textile plants, where discern-
ment of fine detail is at a
premium, Claude Cold Cathode
Fluorescent Lighting provides
the necessary higher illumination
levels —hut with the good colour
rendering characteristics and low
glare factor necessary for keeping
eyes alert.
Such lighting raises the effective-
ness of both men and machines
and improves operating standards
—yet costs less per lumen of light
and less for re-lamping.
Progressive textile plants all over
Australia are investing in Claude
Cold Cathode installations. Call
your nearest Claude office for the
full facts and for details of the
Claude Rental Plan which avoids
the necessity of incurring capital
expenditure.
FLUORESCENT
LIGHTING
NEON
DISPLAYS
PORCELAIN
ENAMEL
CLAUDE
NEON LIMITED
SYDNEY MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH ■ HOBART - LAUNCESTON - NEWCASTLE
tradition in .overcoming the
simulated resistance of an un-
willing member to assume the
-tost autocratic office in the gift
0 f Parliament. Messrs. Mc-
Donald and Bowden seized their
victim under the elbows with
a n expedition which suggested
long membership of the Provost
Corps rather than of the dis-
tinguished fighting battalions to
which they belonged. They
marched him towards the Chair
in exactly the same manner as
is used by warders in propelling
less noble candidates to the
scaffold, but their performance
was marred by the fact that,
through the obvious lack of re-
hearsal, the necessity was
forced on them of using great
care in moving from step to
step in unison on the graduated
floor. This condition induced in
all three a certain unsteadiness
of gait with which a sudden out-
burst of the strains of “Sweet
Adeline” would not have been
altogether incongruous. And if
Mr. Cameron at any moment
cried out in the traditional
words of elected House of Com-
mons Speakers that he was “un-
willing and unworthy,” nobody
heard him, though some in-
teresting conversation appeared
to be in progress between him
and Mr. McDonald before he
was deposited beside the
Speaker’s dais.
There, a figure whose light-
bluish grey suit lent him almost
a fragile aii*, he gave a display
of robust and humorous oratory
such as the House has rarely
heard in a generation and of a
type which is unknown to
legislatures less good-humored
than those of the Anglo-Saxon
peoples. A Moscow Parlia-
mentary audience would cer-
tainly have felt that the legisla-
ture had gone mad, as roar after
roar of laughter rose, and the
new Speaker unfolded the story
of his choice by the party for
the Speakership, masked behind
the narrative of the election of
the King of the Trees in the
Book of Judges, a piece of
humor which he succeeded in
giving out without destroying
the dignity of a sqund warning
that he intended to occupy the
Chair in a spirit of complete im-
partiality, ruling the House as a
“proud servant” and re-establish-
ing the prestige of Parliament so
nearly lost in the last few years.
He then climbed the dais with
the remark: “Well, now Auld
Gillespie will take the Chair,”
an observation which seemed to
be intended to be sotto voce, but
which was picked up and distri-
buted to the audience.
After congratulations, among
which) that of Mr. Rosevear
struck a false note of bad sports-
manship only excusable because
of his recent serious illness,
there was a rush to the library
by reporters to determine the
identity of the mysterious charac-
ter mentioned by the new
Speaker. But Canberra appears
to be weak on Celtic history,
and not all the resources of cul-
ture in the National Capital was
up to producing the fact that
Auld Gillespie was the sobriquet
of a much earlier Scottish Archie
—Gilleaspuic being “Archibald”
in Gaelic —a sixteenth-century
Earl of Argyll, all too well re-
membered in Argyllshire for the
thorough manner in which he
established discipline in the un-
ruly Western Isles by methods
which it is hoped (for the sake
of Messrs. Ward and Calwell)
that Mr. Cameron will not be
called on to use in Canberra.
When the House resumed after
luncheon it seemed to have been
transformed. Many members
had climbed into formal dress
for the afternoon garden-party,
and the Speaker took his seat in
full regalia—full-bottomed wig
(once the property of Dr. Evatt),
black suit with white jabot and
ruffles and black robe. A sigh
of satisfaction went up as those
who had laid bets that he would
not also appear in his now-
famous tan elastic-sides saw
their money safe, an expectation
which had later to be referred
to the stewards when Senator
Mattner, who had acted as
esquire of the bedchamber at his
friend's robing, announced that
the neat footgear in which the
sable form of the House’s new
master terminated was in keep-
ing with his normal ideas of
comfort, though changed in
color.
Elastic-sides or no elastic-
sides, the Speaker walked with a
dignified tread and a swish of
robe when he came in proces-
sion from the library, where he
had reported his election to the
King’s representative, to hear the
Governor - General read his
speech from the throne.
Mr. McKell arrived garbed in
morning dress unrelieved by any
touch of color and was led to the
chamber by the Usher of the
Black Rod, who, throughout the
ceremony, seemed to stand over
him menacingly with a weapon
which one astonished outback
member described as looking
like a gold-mounted yam-stick.
Mr. Cameron came in behind
the Mace and took his place.
He sat down in a large red chair
directly in front of the Governor-
General and fixed that gentle-
man with an unwinking stare
which never shifted during the
reading of the Governor-
General’s speech.
The situation had its dramatic
quality, for 'all those old hands
who remembered that back in
the uneasy days of the German
invasion of Western Europe in
1940 Mr. McKell had uttered
the opinion that the Menzies-
Cameron coalition was the
“vilest” political combination
which Australia had ever seen.
The regard of Mr. McKell’s
former victim during Wednes-
day’s speech could hardly have
been comforting to the Gover-
nor-General as he read the
speech prepared by another vic-
tim of his earlier political objur-
gation containing proposals per-
sonally anathema to every fibre
of his own “Labor”-trained
being. However, if observant, he
may have gained some comfort
from the fact that the Speaker’s
gaze upon himself was scarcely
less fixed than that of the Soviet
Ambassador, a diplomat who is
acquiring a remarkable personal
likeness to Dr. Evatt as his figure
fills out under the influence of
the imperialistic diet of Aus-
tralia, upon the back of Mr.
Cameron’s neck. It never fal-
tered. Neither did the flow of
Mr. McKell’s utterance.
There was in the chamber an
air of unease during the reading
of the speech as if something
might happen at any moment,
and perhaps this was respon-
sible for the extra light-hearted-
ness of the Parliamentary
garden-party, afterwards held in
the quadrangle of the House.
Like all such parties, it was
as crowded as the Black Hole of
Calcutta, but there was a jovial
atmosphere about it calculated
to cast suspicion on the content
of the tea which was served as
usual on such occasions out of
aluminium teapots made to hold
gallons.
It put everybody in a good
humor for the final excitements
of the day; the moving and
seconding of the Address-in-
Reply by Messrs. Opperman,
the vanquisher of the departed
Dedman, and Roberton, symbol
of the complete defeat of the
“Labor” party in the wheat elec-
torates and oracular evidence
that Glasgow as well as Lochiel
can produce Parliamentary
Scots.
Neither speaker is a Deakin,
Menzies or Watt, but they made
good, sensible, practical speeches
under the blighting influence
of uninterrupted silence which
by tradition weighs down on
the first two speakers of a new
Parliament. They did nothing
either to depress or raise
national hopes about the future
of Parliamentary oratory,
though, as in every other feature
of the day, there was novelty in
their viewpoint, since each went
out of his way to express loyalty
to the Throne and to call for
reintegration of the British Em-
pire as a united national force,
It was sad that so good a
day, so free from hitches and so
apt to give the neophyte a favor-
able picture of Parliamentary
life, should have been ended with
a slight breach of'tact by the
Government, which chose to pro-
duce the Auditor-General’s Re-
port at the moment when mem-
bers were beginning to look for-
ward to dinner—a meal of vege-
tables for a good many of those
since there seemed to be
a remarkable host in Canberra
celebrating Ash Wednesday, the
opening day of Lent, with a
sedulously restricted regimen,
improvised of necessity, since
Lent is apparently not in the
calendar of the Parliamentary
catering staff,
Several members of the
“Labor” front bench seemed to
flinch as the Auditor-General’s
document came to light.


CAREY THE
BURDEN
r
'S
miu.
Established 1808 in Reign of
Oeorge 111,
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
{England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
TaCKSOIH 4
OSUUJVAN
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
"jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRA
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BI * DER h^rTS
RECORDING GRAPHS AND C
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER ABU
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUBBI _ tiILS
‘PROTECTA” SELF-REGIS QR
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER wraps
WAXED MILK BOTTL
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND •
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
HYDROGEN-BOMB.
While estimates of the
efficacy of the hydrogen-
bomb have varied from 10 to
1000 times the power- of the
the latest gift to
mankind seems to have had one
fairly universal effect in turning
the minds of commentators to
the limited size of this planet and
the amount of explosive that can
safely be let off on it. Some
opinions:
London “Times”: “President
Truman and his advisers, who
are not less humane or less de-
voted to peace "than other men,
had to decide whether they
could take the risk of allowing
the Soviet Union to manufacture
the hydrogen-bomb while the
United States did not. It was in-
evitable that they decided as they
did. The only question is what
room remains, if any, for renew-
ing the attempt to prevent the
most hideous of all arms races
by consultation with other
nations and in particular with
the Soviet Union.”
London “Economist”: “Even
if no friendlier emotion ever stirs
the Soviet leaders, surely the
possibilities of the hydrogen-
bomb are horrifying enough to
create a comradeship of common
funk? It would certainly be a
grave error to allow this or any
other opportunity of approach-
ing Russia to slip. The hydrogen-
bomb does appear to offer a new
opening.”
“Statesman and Nation”: “The
Prime Minister should tell us
frankly that atomic rearmament,
without atomic civil defence, is
military nonsense which deceives
no ond but ourselves. Once that
is clear, the common people
might reach the conclusion that
even the very imperfect system
of control and inspection, which
is all that could be achieyed in
negotiation, might be preferable
to blind rearmament.”
“Yorkshire Post”: “A delimi-
tation of spheres may still be
possible, with an agreement on
each side not to interfere in the
affairs of the other. But if this
road turns out a blind alley it is
hard to see how the hydrogen-
bomb can fail sooner or later to
ejcplode.”
“Spectator”: ‘Two courses are
open to rational and peace-loving
nations —to seek an agreement
with Russia, which is the only
real danger to world peace; and
to arm so heavily that Russia
would never venture an aggres-
sion. The second method is
being followed at the moment for
lack o( a better. Russia shows
no signs of intending to wage
actual war; but she refuses to
allow other nations to satisfy
themselves that she does not
mean war. It no doubt suits her
s *£* fC) ,
py 3
fto*
"THE THINKER ”
—Hartford "Courant.”
better to keep them guessing.
That is what makes President
Truman’s decision to make the
bomb inevitable, and his
endeavor to open negotiations-
indispensable however un-
hopeful the prospect.”
“Scotsman”: “It will be let off
in a war by men whose know-
ledge of the physical universe
and of how to utilise its forces
is far in advance of their moral
sense. The idea of spending
millions of dollars on improving
the morality of man will not be
even contemplated. That would
obviously be a waste of money.”
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“The question of controlling
man’s ingenuity in the invention
of means for his own destruc-
tion is very old, and its history
very saddening. So far there has
been another failure to answer
it.”
London “News Chronicle”:
“Now that President Truman
has decided that work on the
manufacture of the bomb must
begin, there seems likely to de-
velop in America—a country
with deeply - rooted moral
scruples however they may some-
times be obscured and disguised
—a demand for action that will
do something at least to lift a
spreading sense of human guilt.”
N. Y. “Herald Tribune”: “We
should realise that atomic war-
fare in itself offers nothing to
human-kind except extinction.
An ability to devastate 100
square miles instead of 10 to
slaughter 1,000,000 enemy indi-
viduals at a blow instead of
100,000, will not further by a
whit any economic, political or
social objective of our society.
As a safeguard it may be neces-
sary ; as a positive means of
furthering any rational human
aim, it will be much worse than
useless, and we must not go into
this thing until we first under-
stand, much more clearly than
we did in the case of the
uranium bomb, just what it is
that we are doing. We must be
wary of the idea that a isuper-
weapon can give us a super-
power in the world or relieve us
of the hard obligations of intel-
ligent policy and diplomacy, of
consistency, integrity and fore-
sight on the basic plane of
human relationships.”
“Enosis.”
Although Greek Communists
admitted to a licking a few
months ago no one who knows
their Corns expected that that
was the end of them. Militarily,
yes, for the time being, but else-
where, not by a long chalk. The
typical Communist procedure in
these circumstances, and one
which is only too familiar in
Australia, is, as soon as one of
their organisations is exposed or
exploded, to adopt or start an-
other under some highfalutin
and popular title.
The Eureka in Greece, at the
moment, looks like being
“Enosis,” or union, of which
the main movers have been the
surviving adherents of the cult
known as the “Great Idea.”
That cult, or cause, as C. M.
Woodhouse points out in the
“Spectator,” a strong and
lively following a generation or
two ago when its aim was the
complete reconstruction of the
Byzantine Empire and the in-
clusion of other parts, Cyprus
among them. The “Great Idea”
has long since faded in the minds
of most Greeks, and this
remnant of it, Enosis or union,
has come to mean particularly
and almost exclusively the union
of Greece and Cyprus.
The cause, which has flared
up from time to time for many
years and even to open violence
in 1931, is stronger in Cyprus
than in Greece, sometimes with
peculiar -differences. The
Cypriots who want the union are
moved by discontent with their
colonial status ; the Greeks who
want it —not a great number of
them—are the “Great Idea”
nationalists interested mainly in
enlarging the boundaries of their
country.
Considering some of their
more spectacular somersaults
and the labyrinthine ways they
follow, it is not so remarkable
that Greek Communists should
embrace such an ultra-national-
istic cause. They can, according
to Woodhouse, gain three things
from stirring it up: the pose of
patriots, for nothing could be
more patriotic than the “Great
Idea,” they can irritate the
British by attacking colonialism,
on which John Bull, Uncle Sam
and others do not see eye to eye,
and, on their own assumption
that they will gain control of
Greece sometime in the future, it
would be much more convenient
to have Cyprus already than to
have to make it the subject for a
second operation.
With typical Communist
strategy, this latest move for
Greece-Cyprus union is being
hailed as led by the church, on
which point a London
“Observer” writer notes that:
“It is led by a charming Com-
munist, Ezekiel Papaioaanou,
general secretary of ‘Akel,’ the
Working People’s Progressive
Party. Akeh is the second most
powerful party in Cyprus. If
control of the island were re-
linquished by the British, Akel
would probably seize control. If
that happened, Mr. Papaioannou
would almost certainly become
Prime Minister.”
Against the Communists’
chances of success in their new
guise Woodhouse opines that
neither Greek public opinion
nor foreign policy is much
concerned with the “Great
Idea.” Rather the opposite,
with most Greeks looking
for integration with the West
rather than expansion in the
East, and “How can that be
reconciled with hostile propa-
ganda over Cyprus, when the
Cyprus question is not one of
colonial exploitation, but of the
security of the Western alliance.”
That view is widely held and
endorsed by the King and leader
of the majority party in Greece.
The only question is “How long
can that statesmanlike modera-
tion be sustained now that
the civil war is over and Greek
politicians need something to dis-
agree about again in time for
their general election?”
Conscription.
Although their voices are
rather lost in the spate of talk
on atom-bombs, hydrogen ditto,
bacteriological warfare, and
worse to come, there are still
some commentators who, with-
out discounting or underestimat-
ing those weapons for a moment,
still hold that the next war, if
and when, will entail a certain
amount of fighting in the field
with soldiers to do the job.
Among them, Lieut-General Sir
Francis Tuker puts forward his
views, in the “Manchester
Guardian,” on what forces will
be required and how they should
be raised
As Tuker sees it, if war broke
out tomorrow it would, on land
anyway, follow much the same
pattern as the closing sfages of
the last war. In open areas the
enemy would produce large and
formidable armored forces
which, for a couple of years
anyway, western Europe could
not hope to match in numbers,
even if that were desirable.
What is required then are, first,
positional forces to man the
bases and fortress areas already
prepared in peace-time and,
second, forces of manoeuvre. The
base forces need be little more
than partly-trained civilians, but
the others must be full-time
soldiers of considerable experi-
ence.
The partly-trained forces for
the bases and fortress areas of
western Europe and Britain
should come from the popula-
tions themselves —“learning their
job as the bowmen of England
learnt theirs in years gone by,
turning out regularly and com
pulsonly on stated days and
absence Pet S‘ y a,oidab ”=
prS' aSSrcS^S
and local forces to deal with air
borne attack in their areas of
responsibly. The whole set™
hould consist of a compulsoS
tamed Home Guard; a measme
of Territorials who have vo| un .
teered for long service to fill the
more skilled posts, staff the
ower headquarters and instruct
the Home Guard; an element of
Regulars for higher headquarters
and instructional schools.”
For the forces of manoeuvre”
Tuker maintains that the bulk of
them cannot be conscripts “It
is questionable if any part of
them can be conscripts as we
know them today; youths of a
year’s or eighteen months’
service. Some of the administra-
tive services—road transport, for
instance—could be supplied from
conscripts, but 18 months is not
enough to bring men up to the
standard that a really high-class
Regular force would require of
them.” Two years’ training
would just suffice. “There may,
therefore, be some call for a
limited number of men con-
scripted for two years, recruited
and trained for a specific role in
semi-skilled duties in a very
highly-skilled force. The smaller
the numbers, the better for the
country.
“It must be remembered that
the highest technician in any
army is the man who actually
does the fighting. Had we
worked to that conception in the
past our wars would have been
shorter and our casualties far
less. It is criminal to put a half-
trained boy into battle.”
Europe’s Committees.
Australians who know how
much fOrm-filling and interview-
ing is required to produce any
movement in official circles will
have some sympathy with the
“Economist’s” plea for a wall-
chart of Europe’s committees.
“Nothing less than a wall-chart
will do,” that journal main-
tains. “A whole page of the
‘Economist’ would not suffice
to present the full-tangled pattern
of committees in which Britain’s
policies for defence, trade,
economic recovery, political co-
operation and cultural comrade-
ship have become enmeshed with
those of its Western partners.
“Even the wall-chart would be
incomplete without a key to the
whole range of initials (M.A.P>
0.E.E.C., etc.) that Ministers are


J
frusaoer
U
m
V
x
r m
mSaSiid
MM
-3
■
guaranteed, never to fade p
72 COLOURS • 72 COLOURS *72 COLOURS
72 COLOURS
FG
A/6 P&4JC/6 OFrS#/A/£/A/
COLOURS
72 COLOURS ’ 72
F
GF
c°
(/
o
d
9
c
5
NO other colour
pencil equals the
“Derwent” for the
superfine quality of both
lead and wood, tl*e purity and
brilliance of the primary colours
and the delicacy of the pastel tints.
In all 72 accurately repeated colours,
no refinement has been spared to obtain
the highest degree of light fastness and
general permanence. The colours mix and blend
well in both wet and dry applications ; effects
similar to water co'our and tempera may be obtained by
applying solvents such as Dekalin. Unquestionably, the
••Derwent” will measure up to your most exacting deman s
If unobtainable from your stationer, kindly contact your nearest agent.
Supplied in neat attrac-
tive stand cases in the
complete range of 72,
or in 36, 24, and 12
assorted colours. Also
boxes of 12 separate
colours.
COMPAIrynTMTfFDI)
v,<„ S .
SSffitßt CHAS A DON * LD -
: :~* r:
now expected to know and with-
out some system of push-buttons
and red lights which would make
clear in a flash the course that is
being taken by any paper of
importance.”
Thus, the “Economist” points
out with a light-hearted example,
the matter of producing a stand-
ardised jeep for Western Europe
should be considered by the
financial and economic com-
mittee, military supply board and
joint logistics committees of the
five Brussels Pact Governments ;
by “Uniforce” at Fontamebicau ;
by the north, west and south
European planning groups under
the Atlantic Pact, by a supply
board in Washington, and in-
formally by the appropriate sub-
committees of the Organisation
for European Economic Co-
operation in Paris. After which
it might be advisable ter ask the
Consultative Assembly of the
Council of Europe whether the
vehicle should have a right- or
left-hand drive and a speedo
marked in miles or kilometres.
How many committees the r e
are dealing with one aspect or
another of European reconstruc-
tion no one has yet counted, but
“the Brussels Pact system, the
lowest layer,in the palimpsest
built up in the last two years, has
some 25 committees demanding
the periodical attention of
Foreign, Defence and Finance
Ministers, and the regular atten-
tion of permanent officials who
have normal diplomatic duties as
well.”
The nine-months’-old Council
of Europe has 15 committees and
sub-committees, the O.E.E.C. in
Paris has about 20, while the
Atlantic Pact organisation has a
“complex mixture of committees
and sub-committees seething into
life.” The “Economist” esti-
mates that it will take at least
“100 committees of varying
sizes and importance to plan and
execute the military, financial,
economic and political policies
in Europe to which Britain is
committed pnder its various
treaties with neighbors and
allies.” The cost to Britain in
pounds and people is not known,
but at least 50 men and women
are needed in the Treasury alone
to keep up witn that department's
share of the business.
The trouble with most of these
committees, apart from the
attention, travelling and home-
work they give Foreign
Ministers, M.Ps. and other
officials who could use their
time to better advantage is that
“too much of the committee
work now going on in Europe
springs from a desire of all Gov-
ernments to have an equal say
on everything, to keep tempers
sweet and prestige erect Too
often matters are referred to
committees in the hope that
officials sitting around a table
will be able to find reasons for
pulling off decisions about which
foieign, Defence and Finance
Ministers are loth to consult
their Cabinet colleagues. The
committees indeed do every-
thing buj 'function' as European
bodies, and their meticulous
work provides the maximum
opportunities for what Mr.
Churchill in 1940 condemned, in
a minute on a foreign-office
draft; ‘The ideas set forth
appeared to me to err in trying
to \be too clever, to enter imo
refinements of policy unsuited to
the tragic simplicity and
grandeur of the times and the
issues at stake.’ ”
Televised Politics.
Tho§e who have had some
experience of television or
politics, or both, may not be
very keen on the idea of
vising the features of aspiring
M.Ps., but Lord Balfour of
Inchrye, expressing his views in
the “Sunday Times,” has no
doubts about the benefits to
accrue from such an innovation.
Holding that politicians have
only escaped television so far be-
cause politically the air is. con-
trolled. rationed and divided up
between the parties and no
8.8. C. inter-party television
agreement has yet been made, his
Lordship opines the election just
past will be the last without party
television.
If that opinion is correct,
“tens of thousands of voters will
be able to be associated with the
political life and issues of the
day far more closely than ever
before. At mass meetings
national leaders speak to a few
thousands; Press reports of
speeches have to be cut severely,
and only in the periodic party
broadcasts can speakers reach
anything like a high proportion
of the electorate. .Even then any
lasting effect must depend on a
single sense: hearing. When
a speaker can be seen as well
the voice is clothed with a per-
sonality, and chances of retention
by memory of the main sub-
stance are multiplied times
over.”
Whether that further possible
invasion of domestic privacy is
a good thing is debatable, as is
another point Balfour makes —
that the television of politicians
phizes will put some of them in
the same embarrassing position
that talkies forced on motion-
picture players with voices like
a goat eating treacle-tins “In
front of the camera, fierce de-
nunciation will come badly from
a bald head, rimless glasses and
an insignificant stature ; the con-
fidential ‘come and join us’ fire-
side chat will not fit the picture
of the fiery Celt with locks of
dark hair sprawling over his
forehead.”
Against that opinion is the fact
that some remarkable voices have
come out of very peculiar vessels
in the past, and the experience
has been rather that the voice
has carried the man where
nothing else would. And, by the
same token, some very spec-
tacular figures lose 75 per cent,
of their effect when their voice
trickles out.
Balfour concludes with “Poli-
tical television is likely to throw
up fresh popular figures with an
appeal to women and men
voters. Local selection com-
mittees choosing a new candi-
date who they think has the
makings of a future Prime
Minister will have to give
thought to their man’s ‘telegenic’
qualities. Right through poli-
tical life television is going to
force new methods and new
ideas. And this in itself, many
will say, is no bad thing.”
And many, if not more, will
say precisely the opposite.
Petrol-rationing.
What with the elections and
the hydrogen-bomb, the lifting
of petrol-rationing in Australia
attracted little attention in
Britain. After the Australian
elections and just before ration-
ing was ended, London
“Tribune” remarked consist-
ently with its leanings—that “It
was a strange promise for those
who profess to love the Com-
monwealth to make.
“No derationing of petrol in
Australia can take place without
a greater spending of dollars on
the buying of oil. That means
either a demand from Australia
of a greater share of the Com-
monwealth dollar pool at a time
when all have been asked and
have agreed to economise on
dollars ; or that Australia should
decrease dollar purchases of
other imports to pay for greater
imports of petrol. As Australia
has only been spending dollars
on absolute necessities, the latter
decision would be a hard one to
take. To start by increasing
luxuries at the expense of neces-
sities is a curious way to run a
government.”
As against which, after ration-
ing had ended, London
“Economist” commends the Aus-
tralian P.M. for carrying out his
election pledge. “The British
Government had no right to
interfere. The actual cost in
dollars will be small, and the
Australian case for importing
more petrol is strong. The large
distances to be covered, the
extensive use of motor rather
than rail transport, the restrictive
effect —even though slight-
which petrol-rationing has had
on the development of Aus-
tralian industry called at least
for a modification of Mr.
Chifley’s policy.”
Still, “from a purely domestic
view Mr. Menzies may find that
the abolition of petrol-rationing
will be a mixed blessing. It is
only, a small outlet for the pent-
up purchasing - power which
exists in the country, and unless
he finds other means for reliev-
ing the pressure fairly soon, the
least that can happen is that the
price of petrol will soar and will
diminish the value of the other
benefits which were expected to
follow from the abolition of
rationing.”
Dragnet Digest.
Election Gambling.— Noting that
only one of three big bookmakers
consulted did any business on the
British election. London “Economist
recalls that “Between the wars there
was a considerable amount of
gambling on the composition of the
next Parliament, At one time there
were extensive dealings in majori-
ties’ on the Stock Exchange. Con-
servative majorities would be quoted
at, say, 70-80. If the eventual
majority came out at 100 a buyer of
one unit at the price of 80 would win
£2O, the seller losing £3O. if the
majority came out at 50 those who
sold at a higher price would gain at
the expense of buyers. There was
also, at any rate in 1924, a market
in straight bets against given results.
In 19J1 election gambling led to
disaster. The market price of majori-
ties was about 170 to 200 (for the
National Government). The actual
majority was 469 over Labor, the next-
largest party. The difference to be
settled was anything up to £3OO for
each unit traded —after allowing for
extensive hedging it is thought that
£750,000 changed hands.”
* * * ♦
Indonesia and New Guinea- —An
odd, if only-to-be-expected, after-
math of the Chiffey Government’s
foreign policy is illustrated by London
"Economist’s" report of Indonesia’s
claim to Dutch N.G.—“The issue pro-
duced an immediate and strong reac-
tion from an unsuspected quarter —
from Australia.” As for Dutch ob-
jections: “The main consideration
which prompted the Dutch Govern-
ment to take up such a strong stand,
a stand that almost verged on
quixotry, was a sense of responsibility
for the backward inhabitants of New
Guinea. These Papuan natives, many
of them living at an almost Stone-
age level of culture, have in many
parts only been saved from extinction
by the devoted efforts of foreign mis-
sions. There seems to be no doubt
that Indonesian control of the western
half of Dutch New Guinea would
mean unrestricted Indonesian immi-
gration, which would lead to the early
extinction of the indigenous inhabi-
tants.”
* * ♦ *
Killing a Pig. —Heartrending cry
from a British farmer in the “York-
shire Post": “When the sow is in
pig it is necessary to apply for a form
for permission for extra rations to
be bought: normal rations are ob-
tained through another return. Four
months before a pig is required for
killing it has to be registered with
the Food Office, which allocates a
date on and after which the pig may
be killed. A week before this date
another form is completed which,
with the signature of the proposed
slaughterer, is sent to the Food
Office. A licence is then issued grant-
ing authority for the pig to be
killed. Having steered successfully
through all the preliminaries and at
last got the eagerly-awaited carcass,
the whole business is wound up by a
form certifying the death of the pig.”
Growing Bureaucracy. Whitaker’s
Almanack, noted by a London "Daily
Telegraph” correspondent, carries the
following note in the foreword to its
1950 edition: “The Parliamentary
and Government sections again re-
quire extra space, in spite of con-
densation achieved by agreement with
the departments concerned.” No fewer
than 87 pages of the volume are
taken up with Government and public
offices. In 1939, without condensa-
tion, the same subject required 60
pages; in 1920, 50 pages; in 1913, 30
pages; and at the beginning of the
century only 20 pages.
* * ♦ ♦
Dictators at the Door. —In the last
two years, while the U.S. has been
concentrating on the plight of de-
mocracy in Europe and the Far East,
1-5 nations in the American hemi-
sphere have experienced revolutions,
attempted revolts or resort to dictator-
ship. Noting this Latin-American
trend towards “rule by force,” the
St. Louis “Post Despatch” points out
that “only Mexico, Cuba and
Uruguay have adhered closely to con-
stitutional government duiing the last
six >cars. Turmoil first affected
Argentina, where Perdn became dic-
tator, and Brazil, where dictator
Vargas was ousted.” In the last two
years Peru, Venezuela, Panama,
Paraguay, Costa Rica and El Salva-
dor have had “successful revolts,”
while Bolivia, Guatemala, Ecuador,
Honduras, Nicaragua, Chile and the
Dominican Republic have enjoyed
“unsuccessful conspiracies.” The
U.S., according to the “Post
Despatch,” “must share some
responsibility for what has happened.
Our arms-aid programme helped to
entrench the rule of force ; by contrast
our economic assistance, intended to
raise living standards, never came
close to Latin-American expectations.”
* * * *
Diplomacy in Moscow. —The two
main conditions for effective diplo-
macy, according to Sir Maurice
Peterson in the “Sunday Times,” are
the spirit of compromise and the
possibility of informal contact.
Peterson, British Ambassador to Mos-
cow, 1946-49, maintains that these two
essentials are non-existent in Mos-
cow. “To the Communist mentality
compromise is abhorrent, as much in
the political as in the doctrinal field.
He may indulge in ‘tactics’ if ordered
to do so. But his training and his
instinct lead him to break rather than
to bend. The possibility of informal
contact does not exist in Moscow.
One does not meet Soviet Ministers
at casual cocktail-parties, and any
Western diplomat who tried to drop
in at Molotov’s or Vyshinsky’s
country bungalow in the course of a
walk would, even assuming him to
have evaded successluliy tne 'out-of-
bounds' restrictions now imposed by
the Soviet Government upon its diplo-
matic guests, be running a not incon-
siderable personal risk.”
* * * *
Atomic War Dress. —The best thing
to wear if the nations start throwing
atom-bombs is, according to the
Atomic Energy Commission, as re-
ported in the Baltimore “Sun,” a
white, loose-fitting garment like a
Roman toga. The commission also
advises that “it would be unrealistic
to prepare for fewer than 40,000 to
50,000 severely-burned persons from a
single atomic explosion,” as well as
about the same number of deaths.
For “ideal care” for the living
casualties each should have 42 tanks
of oxygen, three nurses, 2.7 miles of
gauze, 36 pints of plasma, 40 pints
of whole blood and 100 pints of
other fluids, plus drugs such as mor-
phine.
* * * *
Uncle Sam’s Navy. —By next June,
according to London “Daily Tele-
graph’s” naval correspondent, the
U.S. Navy will have been cut to
385,954 trained men, with 720,567 in-
active reserves. Of 651 operational
warships, about three-fifths will be in
the Atlantic and the rest in the
Pacific —the list will include one
battleship, six carriers, 140 destroyers
and 70 submarines. The reserve
fleet will consist of more than 1900
ships, most of which can be pre-
pared for service at short notice.


Aui
fi'zi.W'
m
m
ym
SAFETY IS
SO VITAL
Protect your family, yourself, your car
with SAFE tyres and get greater
mileage at the same time. Sure-footed
Goodyear De Luxe Tyres have a
wider, flatter tread, an improved
shoulder design, arid a stronger cord
body. De Luxe is a huskier, longer-
wearing, SAFER tyre. See your
Goodyear Dealer for Goodyear De
GOODYEAR
Luxe the tyres
with more built in
safety more built
in miles.
For more safety
per mile . ..
for more miles
per tyre . . .
TYRES
GIVE YOOB TYRES
WITH HEW GOODYEAR HEAVY DUTY TUBES
C 23/169
G
QC6
HA
flies you fastest to
OOMC XOWG
\
HONGKONG
/abuan,
D AIMIN'
SYDNEY
From Sydney, via Darwin and Labuan, Hong Kong
now less than 2 days away—by regular, fast, comfortable
Q.E.A. Skymaster services. First class steward service is
provided and excellent meals are served in flight.
Consult your local travel agent, or
Qaritao SnjuuA'M'W
AUSTRALIA'S INTERNATIONAL AIRLINE
in association with British Overseas Airways Corpora i
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Hollywood produces more scandal
to the square yard than any other
town on earth.”
• —Sydney “Sunday Herald.’’’
But it has greater oppor-
tunities to screen it.
*J* -J 1
“To improve and develop the bust:
Bend your elbows.” —Sunday paper.
And your abdomen will grow
in proportion.
4* +
“The word ‘diet’ conjures up to
most women a dreary picture.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Except to those who have a
dainty frame all ready.
*l* -J*
“Much has already been written
about kissing.”— Woman’s magazine.
So many men enjoy rushing
in to print. .
According to the police too
many motor drivers’ faults are
glaring.
Vision of the Future.
“The Federal convention of the
Australian Workers’ Union decided
today to seek an award provision to
compel station-owners to install
wireless-sets in shearers’ dining-
rooms.”
The station-downer’s face was
glum
While by him sat his missus
sighing
And, grouped around, the kids
stood dumb
Or unashamedly were crying.
And little wonder, for tonight
His helpmate and his sons and
- daughters
Must send their set, their heart’s
delight.
To brighten up the shearers’
quarters.
But was he met with thanks?
Ah! No!
Instead he heard, amid
derision :
“We want no old-time radio.
We want a set for television !”
D.H.E.
Accent on Sound.
“ ‘Noise is one of the main causes
®f husband-wife trouble,’ says Dr.
Grahame Drew.”
It’s not the clash of pots and
pans, or passing transport’s
racket; the din at dawn of milk-
man’s cans, or rattling window-
bracket. It’s not the whistling-
kettle’s shrill demand which
wracks the domicile; the
cleaner’s whine, the radio’s blare,
the shrieking kids, the banged-
down chair.
Well, then, what is the fatal
noise which (experts say) at last
destroys completely all domestic
bliss? Sometimes, I think it's
simply this: No self-respecting
man rejoices to hear the views
his woman voices.
PERCIVAL
Golden Opportunity.
“There is a silly superstition that
a bride ought to be late for her
wedding. Such lateness is merely bad
manners.” —Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Just picture his impatience pac-
ing
While glancing down the dim-
lit aisle
When he instead could be em-
bracing
His partner with a radiant
smile.
But if the superstition lingers
And bridegrooms are com-
pelled to stand
Just clasping and unclasping
fingers
It’s time that men took things
in hand,
Insisting that a bride belated
Who fails to help the hours
take wing
Should see her groom is com-
pensated
By giving him a timely ring.
E.
Near - domestic Animal
Husbandry.
The fact that one of the ten
rhinoceroses recently imported
to Sydney’s Taronga Park Zoo
had to be given treatment on
arrival for sunburn stresses the
need among those who prefer to
have a rhinoceros snoozing in
front of the fire instead of a cat,
or who would rather depend on
a giraffe instead of a dog to keep
hawkers away, or who derive
greater pleasure from the wel-
coming grunt of a pet crocodile
“Have you anything a little slower-drying ?”
than the inane warblings of a
canary, for hints on how to treat
their pets should they become
victims of simple ailments.
Should you have allowed
your pet rhinoceros to sunbake
too long without having care-
fully pulled a sloppy Joe on him
and he gets sunburned, remedial
measures should be taken with-
out delay. You will have no diffi-
culty in finding out where he
has been sunburned. You need
not look on the belly, for it is
not the usual practice for rhinos
to sleep in the sun on their
backs. That portion of his back
where the skin looks more like
basil-leather than sole-leather
will be it.
First scythe off the hair from
the affected area. Unless you
have trained your pet to kneel
down, you will find the easiest
method to do this is to get up
on his back (not the sunburned
portion, of course) and use your
scythe, taking long, flowing
sweeps from right to left (if you
are right-handed), taking care,
however, to put your full weight
on your right foot, smartly lift-
ing the left one at least three
feet as you approach the end
of each sweep, otherwise you
might shortly be walking with
the aid of an artificial leg.
You must also be careful to
get your rhinoceros to bend its
head while doing this, other-
wise the shock of the scythe-
blade coming into contact with
your pet’s cranium might cause
you to lose your balance and
fall. To ensure that he does
keep his head down either give
him his half-ton of oats —or
whatever it is you may be feed-
ing him on—or (and the cheap-
ness of this will recommend it)
simply place on the ground in
front of him a photo of a lady
rhinoceros.
Haying lopped the hair, select
your anti - sunburn material.
This could be either zinc oint-
ment, calomine lotion or some
goo that has a ' tannic-acid
base. Should your rhino be only
a small one (say, three-quarters
of a ton) fill a small tub with
the ointment, lotion or goo ; if
a largo rhino, a large tub.
Now select a suitable imple-
ment with which to put it on.
Never use a yard-broom ; as a
rhinoceros’s skin on parts of the
back is no more than
thick, the use of such coarse
bristles might set up some
irritation. An ordinary millet-
broom is as good as anything.
The job is best done by again
standing on your pet’s back.
This time, however, you’ll have
to bend your knees so as to dip
the broom into the tub on the
ground, springing up quickly
and applying it before the stuff
can drip off. It is possible, of
course, and is actually more
convenient, to put the tub of
stuff up on your pet’s back, but
the possibility of the animal
suddenly sneezing, or having a
sudden attack of St. Vitus
Dance, or simply moving off, is
a hazard which will preclude its
use by the prudent amateur vet.
Particular care should be taken
not to walk over the skin area
on which the anti-sunburn stuff
has just been spread, for such
lotions, etc., are usually slippery,
and a rhino’s back has a slope
to it.
It will be found that some
time after the treatment the
sunburned skin will start to
peel. There is nothing more un-
sightly than to have a pet
rhinoceros walking about the
house with several square yards
of dead skin dangling from it —
more especially if you have visi-
tors. The easiest way of re-
moving this is to manoeuvre the
animal into a corner, get a grip
on the end of a loose piece of
the skin with a pair of pliers
with one hand and grasp a strong
support with the other and shoo
the rhino away. As he moves off
the skin should come off fairly
easily. So will you if your grip
on the support isn’t sufficiently
st , r . on B: Repeat this until all th*
old skin is removed
nd that at this stage
as with humans, the skin be’
comes extremely itchy v.
will find that your
deavor to obtain relief by 2
bmg himself vigorously agadmi
your ehina-eabinet, baby-gS
the fridge, the baby’s cot or ’
some other convenient piece of
furniture. As grave da*
T Y u CaUSed t 0 the new skin
some of the furnij
have sharp corners, it would be
as well at this period to keen
your pet out of the house
Relief can be afforded the
animal by going over his back
with the garden-rake
The look of pure bliss
to be observed on the
face of his pet as the
prongs being drawn
back and forth soothe
his irritated epidermis
is surely more than
sufficient reward for
the rhinoceros-owner
for the effort in mus-
cularity and patience
which this will neces-
sarily entail.
BO.
Only for Nippers.
“We are getting so squeamish that
politics, like football, is becoming a
sissies’ game "—British Education
Minister G. Tomlinson.
This statement’s sure to raise the
• hackle
Of any man who dares to tackle
A sixteen-stoner bearing down
With flailing limbs and aspect
grim,
While shrieking fans expect of
him
To win an eager martyr’s crown.
Nor will the politician tribe
Be pleased with his mendacious
jibe
When anyone will swear he hears
Not once but many times a night
A trenchant phrase not lacking
bite
Hurled at the opposition’s ears.
BERT.


vV ut& cs toLeL
FBCII6 D PARK
Tlie one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. , , , The
Wentworth faces a part , , , yet
ft Is merely ‘round the comer"
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
• • • the service and cuisine
excellent
FIFE WENTWORTH
in
net
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Direct
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
fJnnL P °i Ur I pT NU t,< F ,U NU-METAL
trough plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
ndition your motor while you drive. '
Eermsnently films pits and scores. Ends
S ost com Pression. Guaran-
Molni 0, M?T Jfe , and harmless to finest
t^S e ‘t, NU ' ME T^ L has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
tim es in the same engine.
1,, comes to you la a separ-
for ea f h eyiioder. thus eliminat-
, Work ' „ Municipal Councils,
r ’, C V u l e NU-METAL. Treatment
37/4 5?/ I ’n’., 6,8 , cylinders. 10/6, 30/-,
M,u *2!a Call, write ’ or Phone MA7250.
Poll Ch d a e r?es. P ° St ** C ; OIV » t> lus
ORDER FORM
Mprff . f ° rward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
I enclose Cheque—P.N. *
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL,
Name.
*♦♦••• •
Address..
l/3/’5O
BRISTOL TRADING COMPAT
, „ Is* f loor, Bristol House.
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. )ma 7,
F
Li
fc=3
—£s
S 3
n
K
\
N
m
r
To mark those occasions
when charm, perfection
and easy confidence are
the keynote, nothing could
be more injkeeping
than a cigarette bearing
the hallmark of
Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London —
when only the best will do.
tins of 20
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
MIS MAJESTY THE KING
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Bensonmd Hedges
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
v. 0.8
uv
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
In watching almost any race, it is
the front end of the field that occu-
pies the attention qf most onlookers
—the winner, the placegetters an
the promising near-misses. Yet how
often it must be that the unnoticed
brigade at the rear includes some
animal destined to occupy its share
of the limelight in the goodness ot
time? Certainly very few of those
who saw Atomic Lass win the Pioneer
Handicap for three-year-old fillies at
Moonee Valley in January last year
would have even noticed the filly who
finished at the other end of the field
of 17, let alone conceived, by any
stretch of imagination, that they were
looking upon the 1950 Oakleigh Plate
winner. Such, however, was the
case. At Caulfield on Saturday the
now-four-year-old Hostile mare Spit-
fire, starting at 14 to 1, gave a nice
display of speed and gameness to win
the Oakleigh from Bonny Duke (66
to 1) and Henry the Fifth (40 to 1)
a great result for the books.
As is almost inevitable when a big
field of real flyers is let loose in a
si-furlongs scramble, there was a
great deal of interference and crowd-
ing in the Oakleigh, and, without
detracting from the merit of the per-
formances of , the placegetters, it
might be best to reserve judgment on
some of the horses who had been
more strongly fancied. Among those
who suffered particularly severely were
the most fancied trio, Regular Port,
Dornoch and San Domenico, as well
as High Jip, Illingerry, Ballyvista,
Acquittal and Great Trek. G.
Bougoure, rider of Flemish, was held
largely responsible for the worst of
the crowding and accordingly handed
two months’ suspension.
The battle royal in progress in the
rear did not affect Spitfire, who led
pretty well from the start; enjoying a
handy lead as they turned for home,
Spitfire battled on gamely to first beat
off Henry the Fifth and then with-
stand a much more determined chal-
lenge from Bonny Duke, whom she
beat by only a head in a photo-finish.
Carrying a featherweight of 7.2, Spit-
fire cut out the journey in the slowish
time of 1.6|; the record is San
Domenico’s established last
year, and 10 of the last 14 Oakleigh
winners have bettered 1.6, half of these
breaking 1.5,
A brown mare who has been com-
paratively lightly raced, Spitfire is
trained by M. McDonell for Dr. G.
Godfrey, and was ridden in the Oak-
leigh by W. A. Smith. Spitfire’s sire,
Hostile, a son of Simeon’s Fort and
the Valais mare Valtean, was a good
performer, winning the Cantala
Stakes (1935) and a string of other
middle-distance races.
Though nominally the principal
event of the card, the Oakleigh was
somewhat overshadowed by the
w.-f.-a. St. George Stakes, which
brought together the best field sighted
since the spring and gave the cham-
pion filly Chicquita her first test
against really class opposition; others
engaged included Comic Court, Car-
bon Copy, Phoibos, St. Razzle, Saxony,
Hoyle and Proctor, to-
gether with the crack
qolts Delta, Playboy and
Iron Duke. To finish
second, beaten only a
neck by Comic Court, in
such a field was a splendid
effort for a three-year-old
filly. Enhancing the merit
of her performance was
the fact that Chicquita’s
rider seemed to leave his
run much too late, and,
when he did venture upon
it, immediately received a
bad knock. Iron Duke
finished in great style to be
third, a head behind Chic-
quita. Carbon Copy has
of late given the impression that he
is not as good as of yore; however,
he seemed to be ridden a poor race
on Saturday, being rushed up from
near the'’tail of the field to share the
lead six furlongs from home. Proc-
tor broke down and will miss the
Australian Cup, for which he had
been much fancied.
Rider R. Hutchinson earned no
bouquets from punters over his
handling of Chicquita in the weight-
for-age, and fell further into dis-
favor when he finished out of a place
on Eucardius, hot favorite for the
12-furlongs Bond Handicap. Eucar-
dius has usually been ridden from
behind, but Hutchinson evidently
judged her capable of running Satur-
day’s opposition into the ground and
“went for the doctor”; well clear at
the three-furlongs mark, Eucardius
compacted thoroughly in the run
home, which saw Chatspa clear out
to an easy win from Chatsol and
Purdey.
* * * *
It might well prove that the 6-
furiongs Paddock Handicap, run at
Flemington a few weeks back, pro-
vided the key to the autumn sprints.
Spitfire led most of the trip in that
race, and was just collared at the
finish by Achilles. INlow, with Spit-
fire home in the shorter journey of
the Oakleigh, Achilles looks well in,
and well suited by, both the Futurity
and the Newmarket.
* * * *
A surprising feature of Saturday’s
racing at Canterbury was that with
many leading riders absent in Mel-
bourne or elsewhere, W. Cook, who
could reasonably claim to be the
best of those left on deck, had only
one mount during the afternoon.
Cook may have decided not to stick
his neck out by accepting a string of
mounts, all of which would have
been well backed merely because he
was riding them. As it was, Cook’s one
mount started a warm favorite and
was beaten. Punters had a satisfac-
tory afternoon, however, with four
favorites successful from eight races.
From the afternoon’s generally
moderate standard of racing two per-
formances were really outstanding—
those of Persist finishing second in
the Flying and of Auburn River
winning the second Ashbury Mixed
Stakes.
Persist was this page’s choice for
the last Melbourne Cup, but she was
not at her best in Melbourne and
ran an indifferent race —too bad to
represent her real form, which is hoped
to be seen in the coming Sydney
Cup. Distance of the Flying was
1\ furlongs, and riders of Pantomime
and Hesdin both had the notion of
winning from go to whoa; disputing
the lead all the way, that pair headed
the field into the straight. Persist
meanwhile having drifted back near
the tail of the field. Pantomime (S.
Cassidy) shook off Hesdin in the
straight and looked set for a good
win, but Persist, after being one of
the last three at the turn, came like
a bolt from the blue to run Panto-
mime to a neck. It was a first-class
effort. Taking a long-range glance
at the Doncaster and Cup, a double
which at this stage appeals to present
observer is Hisign and Persist.
Bred to the same wonderfully suc-
cessful cross that has produced
Shannon, Bernbrook, Delta, etc.,
being by Midstream from a Magpie
mare' in High Class, Auburn River
was most impressive in winning the
Second Ashbury Mixed. A three-
year-old gelding, Auburn River had
had only two previous starts, filling
a place on each occasion. In Satur-
day’s race they simply didn’t see
which way he went. Taking a couple
of furlongs to find his feet, Auburn
River took charge at the half-mile,
was six lengths clear at the turn, and
won by a conservative eight lengths.
The 9-furlongs journey of the Can-
terbury Park Handicap may have
been a trifle short for the hot favorite
Karachi; he finished on generously
enough, but was three-parts of a
length short of overtaking the Valiant
Chief five-year-old Valilla (B. Killian),
who seemed to have the race safe in
his keeping at the distance; Wattle
hung on moderately well for third
money after doing all the pacemaking.
* * * *
For Moorefield (before accept-
ances) :
Two-year-old; Wambo Chief, 1;
Ocean Prince, 2 ; Dolphin, 3. Maiden
Handicap; Golden Tan, 1; Oceanus,
2; Lopere, 3. Carlton Mixed:
Annabel Lee, 1; Ferocious Lass, 2;
“It’s a repaint with two black spots.”
Parlona, 3. Rockdale Mixed: Bur-
gona, 1; King Lear, 2; Our Bill, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Penmore, 1;
Tapaasha, 2; Admetus, 3. Flying:
Deep Sea, 1; Hisign, 2; Brazier, 3.
Welter; Auburn River, 1; Cumnock,
2; Jannock, 3.
* * * *
Melbourne riders W. Williamson
and J. Purtell have been hogging the
limehght in recent weeks, but a couple
of Saturdays back veteran South Aus-
tralian jockey “Mick” Medhurst
notched up a performance that will
take the Melbourne lads a while to
equal. Mick rode a winner 'at
Cheltenham and became a grand-
father on the same day.
* * * *
The Victorian pair-oar champion-
ship on Lake Wendouree, Ballarat,
on Saturday was a bit of a fiasco,
and certainly a dead-loss for the
association. With eight crews lined
up at the start an 80-mile-an-hour
hurricane took a hand in proceedings.
Rowing then, or at subsequent at-
tempts, was a hopeless proposition,
apart from which the gale wrecked
the ticket-selling booths, distributing
the takings far and wide, to the
unmitigated joy of sundry fleet-footed
small fry.
* * * *
With occasional glimpses of his
real form, the Czech tennis player
Drobny has been, generally speaking,
disappointing during his season here,
but, having a last match at White
City, Sydney, on Saturday prior to
heading off for Wimbledon, Drobny
really showed what he can do. Turn-
ing on the solidest tennis sighted
here since pre-war days, Drobny beat
Sedgman in straight sets, 6-3, 6-3.
In another splendid singles match the
S’African Eric Sturgess, also due to
depart shortly, beat Ken McGregor
6-3, 9-11, 8-6. The weather, by way
of a change, was perfect, and a
crowd of 4000-odd enabled the Lawn
Tennis people to show a profit on
the tours of the four overseas players
who have been in action here recently.
* * * *
The Australian trippers in S’Africa,
who must be just about worn out by
travel alone as their marathon tour
nears its end, failed in a solid bid
for a win against Griqualand West at
Kimberley last week. Possibly the
mere name of one of their opponents
was a bit much for the boys—W,
Vanderwesthuizen. After closing the
first innings at nine for 355, to which
Griqualand replied with 262, Hassett
again closed in the second innings
with one down for 252 —Morris 102
n.o. and Harvey 100 n.o. The
Griqualand chaps managed to play
'out time, having lost six for 89 at
stumps. This match saw young Har-
vey mark up his seventh first-class
century of the tour, bringing his
aggregate to 1265 both figures
records for an Australian in S’Africa.
* * * *
The matches in which the Aus-
tralian tourists in New Zealand are
figuring seem to have settled into a
pattern which must present a dismal
prospect for the Kiwis. So far it’s
been a case of Burke and Meuleman
opening and staying there till it’s too
late for much else to happen in the
match. Indeed, Burke has twice
retired in an attempt to give someone
else a go. Against Auckland last
week the openers scored 175; that
match ended in a draw, Australia 303
and one for 181 (closed) —Auckland
183 and eight for 230. On Wednes-
day the visitors tackled Waikato at
Hamilton, and after Waikato had
notched up a first-innings tally of
157 Burke and Meuleman proceeded
to better that score off their own
bats. The openers ran up 163 before
Meuleman was stumped, and Burke
then retired. Brown declared with
his side three for 358, and Waikato
still had a wicket in hand when the
two-day match finished.
’Keeper Don Tallon handles a six-
stitcher with beautiful finesse, but
according to a Press report of the
tourists in Auckland Don is no great
shakes at keeping the ball of social
small-talk in smooth circulation:
“The Governor-General, Sir Ber-
nard Freyberg, V.C., visited the Aus-
tralians in their dressing-room. He
asked to meet Bill Brown and Don
Tallon particularly, and then chatted
to them. He said to Tallon; ‘I class
you as the best wicketkeeper I’ve
seen. I remember you in England in
1938.’
“Tallon replied: T wasn’t there
then.’ ”
* * * *
At Leichhardt last week N.S.W.
fedder champion Dal Sterling (8.13)
had a lash at Novocastrian Norm
Foster (8.8), but, fortunately for
Sterling, the title, which he pinched
from Ted Sprouster a few weeks
back, wasn’t on the line. To the
10th round matters were fairly even,
but in the last two stanzas Foster
was much the more eloquent, and
thoroughly deserved the points deci-
sion which went his way. /


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff Hnt
cold water and telephone in all rooms. CoSwifh private Bath
li
m
m
niw
iii I
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY RATES
Single Rooms—
From 8/- per night
Double Rooms—
From 15/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless :
“METROPOLE,'’
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
SWISS FINISHING SCHOOL
Le Colombier
A private and select Finishing School
for the Study of Languages ( French
and German ), Continental Culture,
deportment and domestic science.
For prospectus apply to: —
MAJOR and MADAM JACQUES H. E. CHABLE
Olinda Falls Rd., MX. DANDENONG, Victoria.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Hypocalcaemia.
“Bungaree”: “L.M.G.’s”
molasses cure for pregnancy
toxaemia in sheep (B. l/2/’5O)
should be used only as a last
resort. Twenty years ago, when
he claims to have got results, the
sheep disease he likens to milk-
fever in cows was also called
grass-tetany, twin-lamb disease,
grass-staggers and other local
names. Since then a differentia-
tion has been made in the
symptoms to enable the breeder
to diagnose whether his sheep
are suffering from twin-lamb
disease (pregnancy toxaemia) or
apy one of the others, which may
be grouped under the heading of
hypocalcasmia.
The first distinction is that
only ewes can suffer from twin-
lamb disease, whereas sheep of
any sex or condition may be
affected by hypocalcsemia.
Secondly, while both are mostly
encountered in bad seasons, the
latter may crop up at any time.
There is a marked difference
of symptoms. A ewe with preg.
tox. will wander aimlessly, but-
ting into trees, fences or other
obstacles and taking no notice
of men or dogs. A sheep with
hypocalcaemia drops behind the
mob when driven and flops to
the ground, often with its hind 7
legs stretched out behind like a
cocker-spaniel. In yards or sheds
they will go down and be unable
to support themselves when lifted
to their feet. The head is
stretched forward, chin resting
on the ground, and in advanced
stages the ears twitch with tetanic
spasms, hence the name grass-
tetany.
Twin-lamb disease is caused
by malnutrition, and, as its name
implies, ewes dying of it are
usually found to be carrying
twin lambs. It is associated with
lack of nourishing feed during
the last half of pregnancy. The
ewe is not getting enough to
meet the demand of the growing
lambs she is carrying, and they
are accordingly living on her
reserves of fat and protein.
When these reserves are used up
the toxaemia sets in, and by the
time the symptoms show up it is
usually too late to save the ewe.
Molasses may help to save the
ewes if it is backed up by better
feed, but it will not save ewes
that are showing the typical
blind, dopey symptoms. Preven-
tion is the only way to beat preg.
tox. If feed is scarce or dry,
ewes should have a supple-
mentary ration high in protein
content for the six to eight weeks
before lambing. The cost will be
repaid with interest in ewes
saved, lambs reared and in the
state of the fleece at next shear-
ing. Protein is essential for wool
growth, and any shortage in the
diet is reflected by short, wasty
wool.
Hypocalcaemia is the result of
a sudden drop in the lime con-
tent of the blood, and an imme-
diate and effective cure can be
made by restoring the lime defi-
ciency Molasses is rich in lime,
which lends color to the belief
that “L.M.G.’s” sheep had this
trouble and not preg. tox.
Various conditions cause the
disease —starvation by withhold-
ing feed from sheep in shearing-
sheds or on long trucking
journeys, shifting sheep from
good feed on to poor, putting a
mob off poor feed on to a green
crop. Eating sorrel will also
cause it.
Treatment is the same as for,
milk-fever in cows. A dose of
50-80 c.c. of calcium boroglu-
conate (C.8.G.) injected under
the skin will effect a complete
cure within a few minutes, pro-
vided the animal has not been
down too long. If they have
reached the stage of lying on the
side with head back and frothing
at the mouth, there is little hope
of recovery.
Every sheepowner should keep
the remedy on hand. It is too
late to send to town for it when
sheep are down. The outfit con-
sists of a supply of C.B.G. —a
white powder that is dissolved in
warm water before use—and a
hypodermic syringe and needle.
A 20 c.c. metal syringe is better
than the glass variety, and have
a few spare hypodermic needles
on hand. Sterilise syringe and
needles by boiling for 10
minutes before use. After the
sheep gets on to its feet let it
feed as soon as possible. If no
grass is handy, feed it hay-
lucerne hay if possible—it is rich
in lime. Prevention lies in letting
sheep out of sheds or yards for
a feed and exercise or in feeding
hay to trucked sheep as soon as
possible.
Trees in Dry Country.
“Ex-R.S.M.”: My experience
of the algaroba (B. 11/I/’5O) is
that it is easily killed by frost
when young and isn’t suited to
the driest regions. There are
two trees which will resist dry
conditions: the pepperina and
the athel. The pepperina is the
only species that will grow on
the Nullarbor Plain. The strong
taste and smell of its leaves
renders it unattractive to stock
and it gives good shade, but
should neyer be planted within
100 yards of a garden, as its
surface roots will find the
garden and ruin it.
The athel, a species of
tamarisk, will grow under dry
conditions and will tolerate
salinity. South Australian
Forests Department is concen-
trating on this tree as the most
generally suitable for the diy
outback.
An Australian tree suited for
arid conditions is the desert kur-
rajong (Brachychiton gregorii ),
which thrives west of Oodnadatta
right across the semi-desert
country into W.A. Seed gathered
from a tree growing in this area
seems to give better results in
dry country elsewhere than that
from a tree grown in a cooler
and wetter climate.
The success of growing trees
in dry country is in the pre-
paratory work. Tree-roots will
split rock and will break through
hard clay, but seedlings won’t.
Drive a rock-drill sft. or 6ft.
into clay and explode two or
three plugs of gelignite in the
bottom of the hole. Then plant
the seedling. Do it when the
clay is bone-dry and you can
shatter it for yards.
Plant straight after a rain.
Have the young trees growing in
old four-gallon tins which have
been burnt to make them rust
easily,; don’t remove the tree
but plant tin and all, making
sure there is a hole in the bottom
big enough for the roots to grow
out. Mulch around a young tree
is an enormous help, even if
nothing better than flat stones.
About 4ft. from the base of
the tree sink a bit of old pipe
"Let me fill th' billy, Mat, before you use th' soap.”
and pour the water into it. This
avoids loss by evaporation and
encourages deep rooting. Guards
are needed to keep off rabbits
and stock.
Tomatoes from Cuttings.
“C. 8.”: There is never any
mention in gardening notes
about growing tomatoes from
cuttings, yet where there is diffi-
culty in obtaining plants for
succession the method can be re-
sorted to with every hope of
success. We have a dozen plants
set out (experimentally) at in-
tervals since early December, all
growing strongly, from lateral
cuttings. Half are in bearing,
some approaching maturity.
The remainder are strong, sturdy
plants in flower for a late crop.
Some laterals might be allowed
to grow on the parent plants.
When large enough they should
be cut cleanly, planted without
delay in moistened soil at a
depth of about 4in. and sheltered
immediately from the sun. Com-
plete protection from the sun’s
rays is essential for about eight
days, during which time the soil
should be kept moistened.
The cuttings will not droop or
sag, and take root readily. When
the cover is removed the plants
should be ready for staking.
The broad-leaf varieties should
be favored for this method, as
they grow the stronger trusses
and show lesser tendency to shed
flowers than the narrow-leaf
varieties.
Rearing Turkeys.
“Big Billy”: They can be very
profitable, reared on the right
lines. Most of the hatching-
points to watch with other
poultry also apply to turkeys,
only more so. Don’t feed con-
centrated food until poults are
48 hours old, but give a light diet
of sour skim-milk and green-
feed. As they get older feed
green stuff in abundance. Don’t
feed wet food.
Variety is the secret of success
with mashes (fed from troughs)*
with the grains, bran, green-feed,
bonemeal and salt main consti-
tuents. When on range see that
turkeys have plenty to eat, ample
shade and water.
When near marketing stage
feed grain soaked in skim-milk
and allowed to curdle. Don’t
rear turkeys and fowls together,
because diseases are common to
both, but turkeys are more sus-
ceptible.
Farm Wheat Storage.
“He-Ne”: One of the main
objections to an incentive-pay-
ment of up to 6d. per bushel for
late-delivered farm-stored wheat,
as urged by the cereal commit-
tee of the N.S.W. Graziers’
Association, is that it would be
too costly. A concrete silo to
hold about 1000 bags would
cost well over £l2OO, and the
farmer would also need elevating
machinery and probably a tip-
truck. If N.S.W. experiences a
bad season this year—we can-
not reasonably expect four con-
secutive good seasons, and we
have had three —wheatfarmers
would be hard-pressed to pay
for more capital equipment.
Another objection is that
farm-stored wheat is no solution
to the problem wheatfarmers
are trying to solve-: that is, to
replace the present obsolete
system with a modern bulk-
handling one. Most people con-
nected with the industry agree
that the present “bag-and-
brawn” method will have to go,
but cannot agree as to the most
satisfactory substitute.
Farmers would be well ad-
vised to concentrate their efforts
on persuading the State Govern-
ment to (1) increase grain-silo
capacity by 10,000,000 bushels,
(2) construct another 2000 21-
ton bulk rail-trucks, instal
cranes at the silos so that motor-
trucks can be up-ended and the
wheat slid direct into the hop-
pers, and (4) arrange for an
adequate fleet of motor-trucks
to follow the harvest and take
the wheat direct in bulk from
field to silos.
In, Central Queensland.
“Archaps”: F. R. Vellnagel,
the first grazier to grow sorg-
hum in the district later invaded
by the Queensland-British Food
Corporation, considers there is
a greater future for grazing in
the use of Sudan-grass than with
grain sorghum. On his Emerald
Downs property Velina e 3 ? d
agam this year sown*!
acreage of sorghum. The oarti J
success of his last year's ™ '
encouraged six or seven „S
graziers in his district to sow
sorghum, and others are i n .
terested, but the machine™
shortage is delaying them 7
This season Vellnagel sowed
200 acres of the quick-maturing
Capricorn better known as
Early Kalo, which will be har
vested shortly. A further 420
acies, sown in November held
out well against the heat and
dry spell, but some of the
district’s crops had to be re
sown.
Last February Vellnagel
sowed 200 acres of Sudan-grass
and with the exception of only
two spells—l 2 days and four
weeks respectively the area
has been grazed continuously at
the rate of five to 30 sheep per
acre. At present the pasture is
carrying 3500 sheep, and the in-
dications are that it will hold
for some time.
A number of fat sheep have
been marketed off the Sudan-
grass, and a few vealers were
sold in prime condition last
September after five months’
feeding. Unlike the Darling
Downs, where Sudan is sown in
early spring to give summer graz-
ing, Vellnagel believes it might,
in central Queensland, provide a
winter and early-spring feed by
sowing in late summer or
autumn, but experiment is
needed to prove or disprove this.
Last year, however, his Emerald
Downs crop carried sheep
through the winter.
Fire-fighter Units.
“J.R.D.”; Mechanisation has
increased the hitting-power of
bush fire-brigades beyond calcu-
lation, and a handful of men
using power fire-fighters with a
well-organised feeder service of
water-tanks, the whole under one
intelligent controller, will stop a
fire in a fraction of the time the
old army of beaters used to take.
There is not, and probably
never will be, a single unit that
will suit all conditions and con-
form to the ideas of all brigades.
In the first place, requirements
vary considerably according to
geography, whether it is flat, un-
dulating or hilly, whether it is
accessible easily, or not at all, to
motor transport, whether it is
open grass country or timber.
Availability of water is another
important factor. Each of these
and their variations demand in-
dividual treatment and equip-
ment.
But the human factor demands
even greater variety. Within the
membership of one bush brigade
you will find individuals who pin
their faith to hand-operated low-
down pumps, low-powered units,
five-horsepower engined jobs
and fog machines —every type
of pump on the market has As
adherents.
Greatest progress in, tie
equipment and organisation of
bush fire-brigades has been made
in Victoria, where they form
part of the general State and
metropolitan fire-control. All
over the country are vehicles
permanently fitted and solely
used for firefighting and burning
breaks —big lorries with huge
tanks and power-driven pumps


tv
GFG
FG
F
GF
764 PAGES OF
PRACTICAL AND
HELPFUL INFORMATION
by H. G. BELSCHNER,
D.V.Sc., H.D.A.
Deputy Chief, Division of
Animal Industry, Depart-
ment of Agriculture, New
South Wales, and Exfernal
Lecturer, Sheep Diseases,
Faculty of Veterinary
Science, University of
Sydney.
Comprehensive. Factual.
Informative. An entirely
new book by a leading
Australian authority.
Over 350 illustrations.
Quick reference index
with thousands of
entries. Covers all
phases of Sheep Man-
agement and the treat-
ment and prevention of
all important sheep dis-
eases. A necessary but
inexpensive investment.
ORDER FORM
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please send me “Sheep Manage-
ment and Diseases.” Price, 75/-
(postage 1/-), (a) For which 1
enclose payment, (b) Charge to my
account.
NAME
ADDRESS
Tech. B
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
H OTJ S E OF MI7RPHY. A blend of
tbe highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A. A. A. HILLTOP.
Australian, American
20/- per lb. Posted.
A blend of
and African.
WINSTON R¥TRRB'r»
cigarette tobacco. gSiv
Improved by better blending of
24/- per lb. Posted.
mature leaf."
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots iOlb.
weight or over.
Write tos Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co M
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
Your next move
i-
akf
i
for better prices, consign
your clip
to
A.M.L.&F. specialists handle your
wool skilfully from its arrival in
store to the fall of the hammer—
with greater returns and less worry
for you! There’s a network of
Branches throughout the pastoral
areas—consult the A.M.L.&F.
man at your nearest Branch
and get the best cheque possible
in any season!
87 Yean in the Service of the Man on the Land.
E
Inc. In England, 1863.
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches: —N.iS.B'’.; Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Oowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina, Cooma and I>niliquin.
Q’land; Townsville, Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi,
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and
Pittsworth, Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, H. P. Veness & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Winton. Vic,: Wodonga, Korumburra.
INSURANCE —for your profeefion
. UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £10,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
Telephone BWB I 3 1 (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
G
AV
At
/*/
Si**'
u
.
m
Ife*
:, ' : ; v f- -,’ a F
***
?P?
mam
W : - ' "S: ■ : - . ■ sXXX
\W '■ *«&■ 'h /
c
*
-Fix:
ar*
39
A
X
H|
iMi
=r^=S
&
N
yi
FG
F
GF
G
THE BRAND WITH A PEDIGREE
.SUPPORTING
d/l&tfa Tmumaa
NO ELASTIC TO PUCKER OR PERISH
In-built and space-designed to
carry knapsack units, beaters,
rakes, axes, shovels and a crew
to operate them.
Although N.S.W. lags behind,
more progress has been made in
the past three years than in all
the years before. Country
brigades may purchase equip-
ment on a 50/50 subsidised basis,
but in spite of this the bulk of
the equipment is still privately-
owned.
Before purchasing a powered
unit, the individual or brigade
should tabulate requirements and
how much can be spent.
Local topography comes first.
If the country is open grass-
land, easily accessible to
wheeled transport, big lorries
carrying 300-600-gallon tanks
can be considered. With such
a supply of water the unit must
have a pump and engine capable
of filling tanks at the rate of
50 gallons per minute or better.
That calls for a Him pump and
a 3-4| h.p. engine.
On hilly, or less accessible
country, light lorries or utilities
may be the limit and tahks will
have to be smaller —perhaps
down to 44gal. drums. There is
still a need for a pump with
good output for quick tank-
filling, but the weight of the
fighter-unit becomes of more
consequence. This is where the
advances in portability of some
of the modern units score.
Frames of light alloy and pumps
of the same metal have halved
weights of cast- and wrought-
iron parts. Air-cooled engines
are lighter by the weight of iron-
hoppers and waterjackets plus
water and are quite as reliable,
if not more so. Unit design has
produced a simpler, streamlined
machine without unnecessary 1
gadgets or sales devices.
For use in very rough coun-
try, portability assumes a higher
priority. There it may be neces-
sary to transfer the unit from
vehicle to vehicle as small water-
tanks become exhausted. Re-
quirements in that case would be
met by a powerful pumping unit
back at the filling-point and
several light units at the fire.
The small compact alloy lin. or
Him centrifugal pump with
1 h.p. air-cooled engine, direct-
coupled and with two delivery
hoses, should fill the bill.
Several types of pumps are
available. Those in general use
are the centrifugal type, and
although they need frequent
priming after stops they are
simple and efficient and stand
up to the intermittent use of
hoses better than other types.
Hints for the Farm.
“Cloudy”: A hybrid plan
from rape and kale has bee
grown successfully in Sout.
Australia. A summer fodder, i
has given better results than rape
Rape is one of the best summe
fattening crops, and with con
trolled grazing has fattened 1.
sheep to the acre. Rape-kale <
being developed on an expen
mental plot.
“C.A.A.”; Quickest and mos
effective way to reclaim salin
patches of land is to allow heav
rain or irrigation water to was:
away the accumulation of sur
face salts. Cut drains to carry
the water. In some cases it
might be possible to scrape off
the layer of salt. , In all instances
plough deep to spread whatever
salt is in the soil over as great
an area as possible. A heavy
dressing of farmyard manure
will assist. See that patches are
never left bare, otherwise the sun
may cause the saline to become
re-established.
“Billjim”: When preserving
eggs, select only clean, good-
shelled, fresh ones. They must
be free of even fine cracks in the
shell. Usually vision is not suffi-
cient to locate such cracks, but
shells can be tested by lightly
tapping two eggs together. Re-
search has established that with
reliable preservatives loss in
vitamin content of eggs stored
from six to nine months is so
small as to be almost negligible.
When used in cooking preserved
eggs should be broken separ-
ately into a saucer as a pre-
caution before adding othei in-
gredients.
“Ben Acre”: Pulling with a
car or truck is by far the easiest
and most convenient v way of
raising pipes from a bore. A
medium-powered car can lift 150
feet of 2in. pipe full of water with
a double- and single-block
tackle. The pulling rope must
come from the top, down
through an extra block anchored
to the bottom of the tower, to
the car. By working in reverse-
gear the driver can watch what
he is doing. A reliable hand-
brake adds greatly to con-
venience. Aided by the friction
of the tackle, and by running
the rope round a smooth post,
the lowering can be done by
hand, the car being used only
for the final adjustment,
“Calos”: A big saving in the
cost of flooring and its main-
tenance can be effected by lay-
ing solid floors of earth rammed
down, smoothed over and
covered with a mixture of fine
sand and bitumen emulsion.
This is also stamped down and
a final dressing of emulsion is
put on and ironed smooth with
special irons made for the pur-
, pose. The flooring should be
high enough to coincide with the
damp-course in the walls, and a
saving of wall material will be
effected because of the absence
of joists, etc. The smoothly-
ironed floors can be decorated
or covered, and are completely
damp- and crack-proof, infor-
mation and directions are free
from oil companies.
“Ware”: If you have to leave
a car or buckboard for long in
the sun, make tyre-covers out of
old bags. They add to the life
of the tyre,
“Rooster”; If making home-
made furniture, render the timber
white-ant proof by soaking it in
sheep-dip. Leave it in the bath
for five to eight weeks, turning
the over periodically so
that they are well soaked; White-
ants avoid timber treated in this
manner.
“Biro”: Anyone who owns a
kurrajong can get healthy seed-
lings by cultivating the soil
around the tree. The seeds will
drop and take root, and when
seedlings have developed leaves
they can be transplanted into a
trench and cared for until large
enough to plant into permanent
positions.


n
m
vy
,
Is
FG
RENRUT
HAND PUMP
KISMET
eyuutmen/ matadei.
What’s the value of a tyre gauge? If it isn’t
accurate, it’s worthless. If it is accurate —and made
to stay accurate—it’s worth every penny of its cost.
That’s the Kismet for you . . . truthful every time
. . . which means a properly balanced car, comfort-
able to ride in, safe and easy to drive.
AND what price a Foot Pump ? Or a Hand Pump ?
Just ask your Garage Man to let you try a Kismet.
See how easily its double-cylinder action inflates a
tyre! Then examine it closely .. . note the fine,
Solid Sheffield workmanship.
You’ll never grudge the little more you pay for a
Kismet product. It comes back to you in extra years
of real service.
i
KISMET
TYRE GAUGE
F
KISMET
MASTER
FOOT PUMP
Made
Mr. E.
by William Turner (Kismet), X>td.,
Sheffield, England.
Representative in Australia:
O. Jones, 48-49 Hardware, St., Melbourne, 0.1, Victoria. G.P.O. iiox 71,
GF
G
BABCOCK-DETROIT
SPREADER STOKER
FG
TOP—Side view of Babcock-Detrolt
BotoStoker with power dumping'
grate.
BOTTOM—Sectional view of Bab-
cock-Betroit BotoStoker.
For Medium and
Moderate Sized
Industrial Installations
The Babcock-Detroit Roto-
Stoker is supplied with
either hand or mechanically
operated dumping grate,
and is employed mainly for
medium and moderate
sized industrial installations.
This stoker has been
demonstrated as capable of
handling a very wide range
of fuels, including bitum-
inous, sub-bituminous coals
and lignites, brown coal
and mixtures of coke and
coal.
One of its main advantages is its suitability in plants
where the type or quality of coal delivered varies from
time to time.
As suppliers of all types of firing equipment, whether
for pulverised fuel, oil fuel, other mechanical types of
stokers, or any other known firing method, Babcocks
have the experience necessary to advise on the right
equipment most suitable and economical to your needs.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
BEAD OFFICE & WORKS - - REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
BrMch Offices and Agencies in all States
Missing Friend.
TO ROBERT CHARLES NICKOLLS tor#
merly of Timboon in the State of Vic-
toria but now of parts unknown.—TAKE
NOTICE that your wife LILLIAN VIC-
TPRIA NICKOLLS of Orford in the State
■of Victoria Married Woman has com-
menced Divorce Proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Victoria on the
ground of desertion during three years
and upwards Unless you ENTER AN
APPEARANCE in the Office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court in Mel-
bourne in the State of Victoria on or be-
fore the Twenty-ninth day of March 1950
the suit may proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay costs and
also TAKE NOTICE that you have until
the Tenth day of April 1950 within which
to file an answer in the said office to your
wife’s petition.—FITZGERALD & FITZ-
GERALD, Solicitors, 390 Little Flinders
Street, Melbourne, Agents ior J.*W. FOW-
LING, Port Fairy, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO MONTGOMERY BAIN late of 164
Keira Street Wollongong in the State of
New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
CHRISTINA BAIN has filed her Petition
for Divorce No. 2789 of a 949 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards and
is asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion in her favour If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Second day of May
1950 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSRS. J. D.
OAWOOD & HALL, Solicitors, 266 Church
Street, Parramatta, or their Sydney Agents,
MESSRS. BOWMAN & MACKENZIE, 133
Pitt Street, Sydney.—(t.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar in Divorce.
%
4*
F
y .#»•
GF
(%etyuz!
Men and women everywhere are realising how
much this safe, convenient method is streamlining
the payment of their accounts.
Just a few strokes of the pen make out the
cheque. A few more strokes address the envelope.
The postman does the rest. In modern business or
in the home, a cheque account in the Commonwealth
Bank is a necessity. An account is easy to open and
simple to operate.
The manager or other experienced officer at any
Branch of the Commonwealth Bank will be pleased
to open one for you.
Other services include: —
INTEREST BEARING DEPOSITS: OVERDRAFTS; LETTERS
OF CREDIT AND TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES: HOUSING
LOANS; SAFE CUSTODY: LOANS FOR PRIMARY,
PRODUCTION, ETC.
iwoitvealtbJM
ofHustralia.
T H E B A N K
YOU OWN
Weeklies” and a “Referee” but
no letters. Bill wandered away
with a twinge of disappointment.
A of the clock 11131 night
1 v Bhl was back in camp. Die
fire glowed brightly; Mike had
assumed that position of utter
relaxation endowed only to
canines and felines.
By the light of a kerosene
hurricane lantern Bill surveyed
his work with satisfaction. It
was a note serawled with a thick
pencil-stub and read;
Wairuna,
Private Bag,
Kaikoura.
The Colossal Trading Co,,
Queen Street,
A uckland.
Sirs,
Please send me strait away
the raw hide bridle pitchered on
p. 383 of yer book. Thanking
you in antissepasion.
Yours truly,
Bill Harvey.
Bill smiled proudly. He
thought:
“That’ll trick ’em at the
station. I won’t send no money
fer six months, so I’ll be set fer
a letter the next six Mail Days.”
THE INSPECTION
By GEORGE BARWICK.
\-\OUNG KAY was just a
\ j bit nervous about his first
inspection at Sunbaked
\ Flat. He had been work-
ing hard, but his material was
on the dull side, and the
youngsters were prone to lapse
into their most basic vernacular
at the wrong moment. The bush
telegraph had warned him to
expect old Alton, the inspector,
this morning. He had left
Warrnambookerie at 8.30, and
would cover the twenty miles in
just over the hour.
When the stout old chap,
drooping and somewhat weary-
looking, entered the room, Kay
pushed back the lump in his
throat, murmured a greeting,
shook his hand, then sidestepped
neatly behind the old man’s back
to raise the startled scholars to
their feet with frantic gestures.
“Ah! Mr. Kay,” beamed the
absentminded but kindly-look-
ing old man, “so here are your
tiny folk! Hands up those who
are six!” Those mouths which
were not sucking fingers fell
open, and all raised their chubby
arms.
“Now, we all love nursery
rhymes, don’t we?” he pandered.
There were a few dubious
nods.
The inspector let his face sag
just a little more, drooped his
shoulders the small fraction that
he was still able to droop them,
then, before allowing his tongue
to 101 l out slightly, he asked:
“Do I look like Simple
Simon?”
“Mm. Yes. Oh, yes.
M-mm,” chorused the children,
with a display of eagerness that
Kay had not noticed before.
“Good! Good!” said the in-
spector. He recited ‘ Little Jack
Horner” with appropriate
actions. Then, with an expres-
sion of great cunning, he wheeled
upon the infants and queried
“What is the moral of that little
story?”
nrURNING sharply from the
1 eight mouths, slightly ajar,
he called to the young man
strategically placed behind him,
almost catching him in the act
of gesturing menacingly at a big
boy who was about to press a
pellet of chewing-gum into the
plaits of a girl in front of him.
“What is the moral, Mr.
Kay?” he boomed.
“Er—ah —er,” floundered the
teacher, thoroughly unprepared
and quite startled. “I’ve never
given it any thought, Mr. Alton.”
“Yes —yes,” mused Mr. Alton.
“Self-adulation perhaps. But
they are a bit small for that one,
eh?” he chuckled. The icy
fingers slackened their grip inside
Kay’s best shirt.
“Now,”’ pontificated the in-
spector, “we’ll turn to hygiene.
What would happen to a boy
who ate a lot of lollies early in
the morning?”
“He’d spew all that day,” de-
clared a scrawny lad at the back.
“Humpf—er—now we’ll have
a look at some Nature Study,”
announced the old boy, toddling
to the blackboard. “I’m going
to draw, a tree on the board. Of
course” [eyeing his gawky
arboreal production without
satisfaction] “I could have done
much better had I used colored
chalks.”
A TOUSLE-HAIRED urchin
** darted to the press with an
alacrity that he usually reserved
strictly Ipr sports-day, and pro-
duced a large box of gleaming
colors. Distastefully, Mr. Alton
selected a stick of brown and
one of green and began to add
gaudiness to the grotesque.
“Novy,” narrated the inspector,
“In this tree was the nest of a—
shall we say?—kookaburra. One
spring morning a little boy came
along, climbed into the tree and
took two eggs from the nest.”
He.paused, significantly, then,
with a grand gesture, he de-
manded, “What is wrong in that
story?”
A tall, gangling youth rose
awkwardly to his feet.
“Them kookaburras,” he
rasped, “makes they’s nests in
hawler lawgs an’ ole dead
stumps an’ rungbarked trees.”
Almost imperceptibly the old
chap raised his brows in a mute
inquiry addressed to his junior.
An equally discreet nod con-
firmed the boy’s statement.
Just a little shakily, but with
a forced jauntiness, the inspector
said “Good lad! I thought I
might trick you with that one.
And, of course, the boy should
not have robbed the poor bird
°f its eggs, should he?” d
“No! Oh, no! No!” replied
the boys enthusiastically, their
inner eyes upon the splendid cof
home 08 ° f CgBS 6ach had at
. ‘ Wel [ ” said the inspector, tak-
ing a backward pace to bn'no
himself into line with Kay “j’i
afraid I’ll have to leave you now
J?? nt . to have a word with
Etheridge at Gravel Creek on
the way back to town. You’re
doing a great job here, Mr. Kay
Keep up the good work.” y ‘
As the old man shook his
hand ’ Ka y was strangelv
cheered. He felt they understood
one another perfectly.


: A
/'
W fj
A definite and very practical
way to provide for your depend-
ants' security is for you to take
out a suitable life assurance
policy with the Equitable
Probate & General Insurance
Co. Ltd.
The wide experience of “ The
Equitable ” in these matters
is readily available . . . .
'phone or write to-day.
R. V. PERKINS, General Mgr.
G
F
RtFBtSH'* 0
At all times, and
especially In the bath, Cuticura
Soap makes the skin delightfully
smooth and charming. Cuticura
Soap has antiseptic proper-
ties which remove all trace I
of roughness and soreness.
One of tbaiamous trio-;
CutkmaSoap, Oint-
<nent, Talcum
fowder.
Hi
as*
Q
i#
ticurj
SOAP 4
GF
G
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C BRANOAUER 4 CO. LTD, BIRMINGHAM, ENG
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings, Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A, FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
4
£2
■ At
\ r;
•m
Mu
m‘
t\s
agj
$
3F
W
I \
sAv*
V*\v
V*.v,
I
4
WHAT'S SO
IMPORTANT
ABOUT
MARCMIth
MARCH 7 is important to all who
are saving carefully . . . important
' to all who want their savings to
earn interest regularly . . .
important to all who realise the
value of a solid foundation on
which to build funds for their
future. MARCH 7 is important
to all these people because the
Ninth Security Loan, opening on
that date, provides the oppor-
tunities they seek.
Protect your savings by investment
in the Ninth Security Loan-
NOW. There’s no need to wait
until the Loan opens; you can
make an advance subscription at
once through any Bank or
Stockbroker.
FACTS ABOUT THE
NINTH SECURITY LOAN
1. The Ninth Security Loan open* on
March 7.
2. The full amount of new cash sought is
required to pay for "War, Repatriation
and Rehabilitation, for Public Works
and Services of the Commonwealth and
the States, and for redemption of
unconverted Securities maturing on
March 15.
3. Subscriptions for 3i% Bonds may be
for £lO or any multiple, and for In-
scribed Stock £lOO or multiples of £lO
above that amount. Unless Stock already
held (minimum, £100). Subscriptions
for 2% Bonds or Stock must be for
£l,OOO or multiples. Applications may
be lodged in advance through any Bank
or Stockbroker.
4. Interest is payable each six months dur-
ing the currency of each series (3i%
Securities —11/14 years; 2% —3 years).
5. Your Bank will hold your Bonds in
safe custody free of charge and credit
interest to your account.
6. Repayment in full at maturity is
guaranteed by the Commonwealth.
7. On your Application Form credit your
subscription to your district to help its
quota.
/fate
NINTH
SECURITY
LOAN
OPENING MARCH 7
orcimsw
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy Vol. I, No. 1 of
Sydney weekly “Fix.” Will pay good
_ ,
To buy copies of Now I See, Good
Gorilla, Difficulties and Things That
Have Puzzled Me, by Richard Lun ,
Richard Tauber, by Diana Napier,
German Self Taught and Grammar
with Key, by W. E. Weber.— 47BB.
To buy secondhand copy of Frag-
ments from France, by Bruce Bairns-
father. —4787.
Information Sought.
Details concerning the Sargasso
Sea? .
A tract of the North Atlantic
Ocean covered with floating seaweed.
This tract is bounded approximately
by 25 deg. and 31 deg. ndrth and by
40 deg. and 70 deg. west, but its
extent and density are influenced by
winds and ocean currents. The weed,
known as gulf-weed, belongs to the
brown algae, and is easily recognised
by small berry-like bladders. The
floating masses are believed to be re-
plenished by additional supplies torn
from the coasts to the south-west
and carried by currents to the great
whirl of the Sargasso Sea. The weed
supports a considerable amount of
somewhat low forms of animal life
of a type more characteristic of the
littoral zone than of the open ocean.
The Sargasso Sea was first reported
by Columbus, who had, on his initial
“West Indies” voyage, been involved
in it for several days. The widely-
credited story of ships becoming em-
bedded in the weed beyond the possi-
bility of escape was disproved by the
“Michael Sars” expedition of 1910.
* * * *
Some details about the plant rose-
mary ?
Botanically Rosmarinus officinalis,
a plant of the mint family ( Labiatce ),
it is the only representative of the
genus and is a native of the Mediter-
ranean region. It is a low shrub
with linear leaves, dark green above,
white beneath, and with margins
rolled back on to the under-face. The
flowers are in small axillary clusters.
Each has a two-lipped calyx from
which projects a bluish two-lipped
corolla enclosing two stamens. The
fruit consists of four smooth nut-
lets. Rosemary was highly esteemed
by the ancients for its aromatic
quality and medicinal uses. In modern
times it is valued mainly for its per-
fume;' the oil is obtained by distilla-
tion. Rosemary plays an important
part in literature and folk-lore, being
an emblem of remembrance.
* * * *
Some biographical details concern-
ing the musical composer Victor
Herbert ?
Born in Dublin in 1859, he went to
U.S.A. at the age of 27 and organised
and conducted his own orchestra in
New York from 1904. Success of his
light opera “Prince Ananias” (1894)
led to other works in this field: “The
Wizard of the Nile” (1895), “The
Fortune Teller” (1898), “Babes in
Toyland” (1903), “Mile. Modiste”
(1905), “The Red Mill” (1906),
“Naughty Marietta” (1910), “Princess
Pat” (1915). He also wrote two grand
operas, “Natoma” (1911) and “Made-
line”(l9l4), musical scores for “Zieg-
feld Follies” and many non-dramatic
compositions. He died in 1924.
* * * *
What part did the French General
Ferdinand Foch play in World
War I ?
At the outbreak of World War I
he commanded the 20th French Army
Corps; checked German drive to-
ward Calais; planned strategy by
which Joffre defeated Germans on
Mame (1914); commanded group of
armies of the north (1915), directing
spring and autumn offensives in
Artois; directed action in the battle
of the Somme (1916); technical ad-
viser to the French Government and
president of inter-Allied council at
Versailles (1917); appointed supreme
commander of all Allied armies
(March 26, 1918); Marshal of
France (August, 1918); carried 1918
offensive to triumphant conclusion.
* * * *
Some years ago I obtained two
pecan-nut trees from a well-known
grower who was of opinion they
would flourish in Bowen (Q.). Every
year they make nice foliage, but noth-
ing in the way of flowers and nuts.
The soil is good and well drained.
What’s wrong with the trees?
Deciduous trees require a certain
resting and chilling period during the
winter months for the build-up and
maturity of their buds. Although cer-
tain strains of well-known varieties of
pecan-nuts such as Schley, Stuart,
Moneymaker, Success and Burkett
seem to have less chilling requirements
than trees of other soft-shell walnut
varieties such as Placentia, they are
known to show delay in opening their
buds in districts with short mild win-
ters. This would affect the build-up of
fruiting buds. Again, seedling trees
are often variable, and can take cot-
siderably longer to come into bearing
than do the best strains of worked
varieties. The origin of your trees
suggests the probability of their being
seedlings.
* * ♦ ♦
(7) Are there any meteorites in
existence in Australia? (2) If so.
what are their mineral contents? (2)
Are they of any value?
(1) Approximately 95 meteorites are
known from Australia. About ten of
these were seen to fall, and the rest
were found subsequent to falling. (2)
There are two main types of meteorite,
and both are found in Australia.
Firstly, a metallic type Consisting of
a natural alloy of nickel and iron.
Secondly, a stony type which may or
may not contain metallic particles of
nickel-iron. Stony types consist of
the same rock-forming minerals as
certain types of terrestrial rocks poor
in silica. (3) Only of scientific value.
Brief Answers.
M.H.S.: Owing to varying standards
of living and qualities of articles in
common use as between countries it
is impossible to obtain a common
basis for an international compari-
son of household budgets. Interna-
tional comparisons of retail prices are
confined to the rate of increase shown
by the retail-price indexes completed
in the various countries. The value
of these comparisons also is impaired
by the fact that the regimens on
which the indexes are based differ
considerably J.E.D.: The Cooper
Engineering Co., Sydney, could make
a handbook, covering the operating
of Cooper sheep-shearing machinery,
available. Central Technical Colleges
in the various States also conduct
classes for people interested in under-
standing and operating all sheep-
shearing machines, but it would be
necessary for you to attend a class in
a capital city H.Y.8.; Forward-
ing you a copy of the latest issue of
the “Summary of the Wheat Situa-
tion, Australia,” Vol. 7, No. 12,
which shows ..estimates of the 1949-
50 wheat crop for each State....
m d ,° f i ‘ S f 1“! 'it
puted to be the most powerful of all,
the others being the Lords Spiritual,
the Lords Temporal and the Com-
mons. Edmund Burke, referring to
the Reporters’ Gallery, is credited
with having said “Yonder sits the
fourth estate, more important than
them all,” but it does not appear in
his published works J.E.W.: The
Natural Science of the Divining Rod,
by A. A. Cook, published by Wil-
liam Brooks and Co., Brisbane
H.P.McI.: The fundamental idea
which has come to be associated with
the Red Cross was first enunciated as
the result of the publication by Henri
Dunant, at Geneva, in 1862, of a
booklet entitled Un Souvenir de Sol-
ferino....G.W.B.: Ned Kelly was
hanged on November 11,. 1880
J.C.: Inquire Resumed Properties
Department, 16 , Grosvenor - street,
Sydney... .J.G.F.; The bird must be
a very bad case, because the treat-
ment you have been giving should
have cured it. However, quite fre-
quently cases do occur where cures
are not effected. You might try
liberating the bird as a last resort.
K.G.C.: The verse was “Old
Jack,” by Will H. Ogilvie, and ap-
peared in The Bulletin of May 31,
1906 C.C.C.; C. H. Matthews
(N.Z.) won the three-mile event in
13 minutes 59.6 seconds and the six-
mile event in 30 minutes 14.5 seconds
at the 1938 British Empire Games in
Sydney... .F.S.H. i Send us your ad-
dress and we will forward informa-
tion regarding importation of d .22-
calibre rifle.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
an( i no MS. will be returned unless
accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor.
S.D.: Unable to add the £ to it
this trip G.C.: “Sulphurated
Hydrogen Bomb” unfortunately had
qualities of its subject 8.P.: Any-
thing that follows “This is a true
story” has to be superlatively good.
. ...L.K.V.: Your “Egg” is addled.
Come and take it away J.P.:
Utterly indecipherable, and, judging
by the one line we did manage to
translate, it might as well stay that
way....H.Y.: “Pickled Pork” is a
nightmare G. 0.8.: Masefield and
very thin sea-water H.0.R.; If
'you feel like that about her don’t
write poetry; propose F.A.: You
can’t possibly rhyme “tomato” with
“Gundagai” W.L.: “The Weasel”
has popped home W.A.D.; “How
much do you pay for poetry like
this?” Three dreadful groans....
L.McN.: Very Audenary P.1.P.:
Your “Motorist’s Ode to Freedom”
is almost enough to make us wish
Mr. Menzies would reintroduce
petrol-rationing... .S.S.: “I am un-
able to judge this myself.” Well, it’s
sentenced C.Z.: Chopped - up
prose K.G.: Stick to what you’ve
seen and don’t try to solve the riddle
of the universe... .0.0. i If you are
young you show a distant gleam of
promise P.J.: “I am sending this
on my birthday.” May all your re-
turns be happy G.Y.: “Feathery
Weather” is wafting hither and thither.
F.F.: So old-fashioned; so
hackneyed ; so well-meant; so dismal.
... .Bellerive: A tranquil scene:
....E.R.T.: Try “The Stuffed
Penguin” on the museum... .0.M.G.:
We’ve got so many bull stories we
could open a wholesale butchery—
yours is a near-miss H. 8.: Liked
them bringing the safe to the wharf,
but finding the tickets in Pop’s bag
was much too old-fashioned....
C.R.L.: “The Plant” is more of a
branch P.W.: Good story, “The
Pack,” but stories about idiots have
to catch us in the mood J.A.G.:
“The Letter” is one of those cases
when life must have been funnier
than fiction I.McD.: It’s time
someone wrote it, but better
F.A.J.: A woolly lead-up to a senti-
mental close J.M.: Read a page or
so; thought how cute you were;
too cute for us E.S.: Would
rather see you determinedly cheerful
than doggedly morbid J.K.C.:
Slight story, but the longest strip of
paper in our experience R.A.:
“But how could he get work with
thousands of others out?” That’s
much too long ago W.D.: Slight,
but might do elsewhere.
The golden sun was
Sinking in the purple west;
Twilight shadows deepened.
The birds had gone to rest.
Homeward o’er a paddock
A herd of cows did stray,
While slowly into darkness
Waned the light of day.
To enclose within a letter
To my Melbourne home,
By the wagon lantern
I wrote a little poem.


The contributor placed first is paid
4[?]d. per line; all others 2[?]d. per line.
Red-tape
The Tarakan tragedy moved the daily
Press to one of its periodical outbursts
against “red-tape” in the Services. There
were cries of “Cut red-tape,” and a fund
was opened for relatives of the Tarakan’s
victims. No one grudges them this assist-
ance, but I do not recall any outcry or
any subscription fund when one soldier
was killed and over a. dozen injured
when a vehicle conveying members of
the Victorian Scottish Regiment crashed
a few months ago ; when a young regular
soldier was drowned in Victoria last
month ; when two soldiers were killed in
a jeep in Queensland recently ; when the
men of an R.A.N. minesweeper were
drowned and injured in 1947 ; or when
Air Force pilots are killed while carrying
out their duties —sometimes because of
engine failures for which they were not
responsible,
. Treasury Regulations governing expen-
diture in such cases (“red-tape”), are
drawn up to protect the public purse from
indiscriminate spending by Ministers who
might be tempted to court popularity ;
they are designed to ensure that all cases
receive unifoxm treatment and that
not only the cases which happen to be
taken up by the dailies receive the benefit
of them. If the regulations are unjust,
they should be reviewed as a whole, and
not modified from day to day In indi-
vidual cases.
In the interests of servicemen, the
Government of the day in 1947 introduced
new pay, conditions and allowances and
instituted the Defence Forces Retirement
Benefit Fund. This was done after pro-
longed deliberations, as it was necessary
to have equitable rates of pay in all
three services and to place them all on
a common pension scheme.
Rates of pay are now much in favor
of the serviceman as compared with the
public servant, but that is in part to com-
pensate for the very much lower retiring
ages. And, in theory at least, the service-
man has to serve where ordered —not so
the public servant. And though it is
necessary for individuals to contribute to
the Defence Forces Retirement Benefit
Fund, the benefits derived from it are
immeasurably superior to those from com-
pensation acts and insurance schemes.
Although the services conferred for a
considerable time, all their efforts would
have been in vain if the all-powerful
Treasury had not seen fit to concur, and
in its considerations it had to see that
service conditions generally were in line
with those of other Commonwealth em-
loyees and those in comparable jobs in
civil life.
When a scheme had been evolved
acceptable to all parties concerned (and
to the services that means that the best
compromise was obtained), the necessary
Acts and Regulations were gazetted.
Ministers of all departments are restricted
in their powers, and rightly so. To have
each Minister making his own regula-
tions would inevitably bring about chaos
and inconsistency, while no stable control
of public expenditure could be exercised.
Overriding regulations would create
precedents which would be followed by
other Ministers, and in the case of the
services could lead to unbridled compe-
tition calculated to upset all the good
work recently done to place the services
on a much improved footing.
Despite outcries of “Cut red-tape,” the
general public should be grateful to the
Treasury officials, in secure and obscure
positions, who guard the public purse
from indiscriminate expenditure. At the
same time the Treasury should be called
upon to bear some of the criticism when
there is an outcry from the public and
some sections of the Press. This could
be brought about by calling all regula-
tions affecting expenditure “Treasury
Regulations” instead of “Military Finan-
cial Regulations,” etc. Such were never
approved by the services; they were
approved by Parliament on the recom-
mendation of the Treasurer, who, in turn,
is guided by close-watching and conscien-
tious Treasury officials. — Old Sweat
(N.S.W.).
White Australia
The Federal Government’s easing of
the Chifley-Calwell ban on colored aliens
is a good start in commonsense and
tolerance. Mow the decision should be
given as much publicity as the other un-
happy policy. Unfortunately, dirt gener-
ally sticks, and this lot will take some
washing away.
While not as fanatical as their religious
brothers in the Middle East, a large per-
centage of our northern neighbors are
followers of Mohammed, and as such are
traditionally hostile to Christendom, of
which we are the predominant representa-
tives in this part of the globe.
The Malayan Press was outspoken on
Australia’s past policy. The Philippines
Congress went so far as to introduce a
bill to exclude (literally) all Australians.
These people have been hurt badly and
have lost face, an insidious combination
which, to the Easterner and particularly
the Muslim, necessarily means some form
of revenge.
Australia is not in a position com-
placently to allow herself to be so con-
sidered. We are few; they are many.
The rapidly spreading Communist influ-
ence in the Far East will spare no pains
to foster ill-feeling towards this country.
Racial hatred, already simmering, could
be brought to boiling-point without much
effort.
They have no sharp division of nation-
alities—European here, Asiatic there
—but a gradual transition from the
Western races of White Russia, through
the Mongoloids on an eastern traverse,
“ Dat’s not an eclair, Madam — dat’s my thumb!”
to the Chinese and thence the darker-
skinned Malayans and Filipinos. The
Kremlin may not mean a thing to the
coolie in his rice paddy, but the Kremlin’s
influence can rapidly turn indifference
and ignorance of Australia into some-
thing like cordial dislike and distrust.
The Government’s wise decision that
the repatriation of colored aliens should
be dealt with individually on their respec-
tive merits should do much to correct
many misguided opinions of Australian
thought and feeling. It is to be hoped
that the policy will be pursued even more
vigorously in the future in a supreme
effort to regain the friendship and con-
fidence of these peoples.— Karrimba
(S.A.).
As She Is Spoke
I salute Calwell for the job he did as
Immigration Minister, and hope that
Holt does as well, but there is at least
one serious flaw in the plan so far as
it concerns newcomers from foreign
countries —the inadequacy of their in-
struction in the English language. Good
types as they are, they can never be
absorbed while they can’t speak English.
I had always believed that most Euro-
peans were natural linguists, but my ideas
have been changed by contact with
migrants from Estonia in the north to
Titoland in the south. Many who have
been in Australia for over a year are
making a poor fist of their English.
I met one Yugoslav who, although he
knew no English eight months ago, is
now speaking English very well, and even
acting as interpreter for others who have
been out here twice as long. He made
no effort to hide his disgust for these
fellows, and accused them of not trying.
He steadfastly speaks English all the time
and makes a regular habit of referring
to his dictionary when he comes up
against a word he doesn’t understand.
While they live together, whether at
places like Bonegilla or in hostels or
camps, European migrants will never
grasp our language. Thus they will tend
to create foreign communities.
Unless something is done, and soon,
to give them a good solid grounding in
English, we are going to have a problem
on our hands. Learning a new language
must be hard going for anyone over 40,
but those I have met have all been in
their twenties or thirties.
The publication of foreign-language
newspapers in Australia should be dis-
couraged, but the dailies in the capital
and provincial centres could do much to
help these people by publishing at least
one column a week in German, giving a
synopsis of the week’s events in Aus-
tralia, side by side with a translation of
it in English. That would be a real con-
tribution to the task of absorbing them
into our way of life. — Dutigalla (Vic.).
T own-planning
“Bumpkin” asks (B. 8/2/’5O) whether
a town-planner is worth £4OOO, because
town-planning has become so stereotyped
that any architect who read his textbooks
could draw the pertinent plans.
“B.” does not realise what town' 1
planning involves. It is out to find a
formula to enable human beings to live
in comfort and health under the limita-
tions imposed on them by modern civili-
sation. Town-planning is high-grade
research work; nothing else.
“B.” is right in holding that every
architect could design any plan required.
But he does not realise that no architect
can draw the plan if he is not told or
does not know what is required. For the
ignorance of this “required” mankind
paid, pays today and will eventually pay
in future with deterioration of moral and
citizenship qualities, with difficulties in
production and distribution, and with the
squandering of an exorbitant percentage
of the national wealth on palliative
measures which can only be temporary
solutions.
“B.’s” introduction of pennies and
farthings to the argument* is senseless. The
longer we put off town-planning the more
it will cost in “temporary solutions” and
in the final reckoning, when it is eventu-
ally forced on us. H. L. D. (Vic.).
Soldier-settlement
“Cass” (B. 1/2/’5O) writes of an ex-
serviceman who applied for, an orchard
block and, it seems, against his will, was
allotted a dairyfarm. Just what that
statement is based on I don’t know, but
certainly not on fact.
His story of four dairyfarms and the
ex-servicemen who applied for them is
also a garbled affair in which knowledge
of the operation of the soldier-settlement
scheme is conspicuously absent.
“C.” seems to be a typical “knocker”
—using information garnered second- or
third-hand, and without thought for its
accuracy, they delight in passing on a
twisted and damaging version of events
on which they are really ignorant.
I have always welcomed constructive
criticism, but I have no time for
anonymous generalities. If “C.” has any
real complaints let him produce full
details.—W. Sheahan, N. S. Wales
Minister for Lands.
A good deal of muddling is to be
expected in most Government undertak-
ings, but the soldier-settlement scheme in
Victoria’s Murray Valley takes some
beating. For years now the authorities
have had thousands of acres on which it
will take many more years to complete
the channels. They have leased this for
grazing purposes only, with the result
that hundreds of thousands of pounds
have been lost to the State because the
lessee has not been allowed to sow wheat.
That part of the area which I see daily
is now overrun with rabbits and largely
infested with noxious weeds. The
channel banks are honeycombed with
burrows, and will have to be rooted up
and rebuilt.
Since the High Court has declared the
whole scheme invalid, the farmers who
were driven off their properties are de-
manding their land back, or are asking
for a much higher price than the 1942
values at which they were forced to sell
Before the High Court gave its decision
the Soldier Settlement Commission used
to invade private property like a horde
of commissars. In one case a farmer
found seven men tearing up his sheep-
yards and pulling down beautiful pepper!
trees, though he had never been given
notice to treat or been asked to negotiate
a sale. Now it doesn’t look as though
a channel will come there or that the
commission will ever acquire his land
Double One (Vic.).
Victorian Housing
The Victorian Government announces
a resolution of the housing problem
within two years at a cost of unstated
millions. It is to be called the Hipworth
Plan, after its confector, the Assistant
Minister for Housing. It envisages an
immediate start on slum reclamation.
British prefabricated houses to the
number of 5000, specially adapted to Aus-
tralian conditions, are to be imported at
a cost of £10,000,000. When these are
erected whole blocks of slum-dwellers will
be lifted and deposited in them. Their
present wretched accommodation will
then be demolished, and on the site three-
to five-story flats will be erected.
That procedure will be continued till
all Melbourne’s slums have vanished. At
the same time more blocks of flats will
be rushed up, and the 1500 families in
emergency camps will be transplanted and
the camps will be shut up. Special equip-
ment will be imported, and present
materials shortages will be overcome by
huge foreign importations, and the local
timber, building and prefabrication in-
dustry in the State will be .speeded up out
of recognition.
Everybody is wishing Hoilway luck
with his bold plan in pots at ninepence
(rising) and hope it won’t be sabotaged or
something. The other day a 50-year-old
timber shack worth £7OO on a pocket-
handkerchief allotment went up at auction
to £1650, which so horrified the
auctioneer that he stopped the bidding
and implored his customers not to offer
such ridiculous prices. But a New Aus-
tralian said that he was in such desperate
need of accommodation that he didn’t
mind what he paid, and it was knocked
down to him for £1690. —Bumpkin (Vic.).
“High Finance”
A business friend of mine had to go to
England recently. His first move was to
transmit £4OO to a London bank. That
was a simple transaction, but because of
devaluation he had to add £lOO for the
privilege. No amount of discussion will
convince him that the new way of
dodging dollar deficiency is altogether
admirable, and it is cold comfort to
know that his loss is some primary-
producer’s gain.
With his visa he received a document
stating that on arrival he would become
eligible to claim free medical and surgi-
cal service, including dentures, spectacles
and other accessories. In other words,
though passing rich, he would be an ob-
ject of charity while sojourning in Eng-
land, although that country is facing
bankruptcy.
The parable of Dives and Lazarus has
been reversed: The prosperous man is
now served at the poor man’s table. The
hungry British taxpayer, like Tommy
Traddles, surrenders a portion of his
dinner of tripe to fatten a well-fed
stranger. —J. W. (S.A.).
Fruit-fly
Summer fruit is dearer in Sydney than
it has ever been before —and it is power
in quality. Far too much of it is riddle
with fruit-fly grubs.
What is the Department of Agricuitur
doing about this infestation, which, judg-
ing by complaints from a dozen sources
is pretty general? Orchardists appear t
be: taking advantage of the
shortage of fruit to pass off all the
that comes off their trees instead of bur}
ing or burning it as demanded by regu a-
tion. |
Fruit-fly is the greatest scourge coas
fruitgrowers have to contend with,
orchardists as a class blame the ba
yard grower for the failure to ehnun
the pest. Control can be effected by n=
discipline, as has been demonstrated -
the success achieved on the Murrumbi g
Irrigation Area, Where strict precau i
adopted by the authorities have P
vented tne fly setting up in busing- _
Coastal orchardists cannot be P
tising general fly-control P r °d e .|
because huge quantities of infesteo _
are reaching the market. And it ,
probable from the condition of bv
the fruit that it is marketed eat 7
growers who are fully aware of 1
dition and want to be rid of it bet j g
young grubs make their presence
to inspectors and the public.
(N.S.W.).


vvas in Cornwall (in tre year of
VVato: and married a Samoan
princ • he was tw nty-three.”
Maj \-.vu-Han gives a fair amount
of this island history, and also some
details of the operations of the Islands
Industries Board, which buys trochus and
pearlshell and other island products
from the islanders, and sells them their
own wants from its stores —he finds a
few things to criticise in the board’s
distributing organisation.
His main interest in Mabuiag was the
dancing. There is intense rivalry between
Mer and Mabuiag dancers, and “at risk
of offending them both,” the major
makes his awards : —
Mer for execution, then, and Mabuiag
for understanding ... but when it comes
to women (dancers), Mabuiag leaves Mer
simply nowhere.
He describes several dances in both
islands, and in an appendix gives music
and English and native words for the
songs, and even an exact choreography
of each dance. They are by no means
behind the times —one dance follows the
motions of Torres Strait soldiery “with
hints of ‘Mark Time,’ ‘Stand at Ease,’
‘Attention,’ and ‘Right Dress,’ ” and
shows the “Red Sun of Japan being
hauled down”; another is called
“Steamer Lights,” and another “Flying
a Kite.” But at one competition Mer
“lost marks through putting on a new
dance composed for the occasion, a Ned
Kelly dance complete with armor,”
which was “not correc Mand dancing
costume,” the judges said, giving the
cup to Badu: —
The insult has not yet been forgotten on
Mabuiag or Mer. “Them judges had never
seen no dancing,” I was told there.
"Hop."
hough a sensitive person who from
cy was a victim of Hop’s
city for administering snubs (to pre-
my growing up conceited), I think
Mr. Norman Lindsay’s description
im in the Jubilee issue is not fair as
rds his punctuality with cartoons,
o one knows as I do how
jcientious he was in this respect. Mr.
;leod told me that he was the only
nber of The Bulletin staff upon
im he himself could implicitly rely to
p a contract and have his work up to
minute.
"or two decades my father never had a
liday free from his obligation to The
jlletin. He produced his front-page
rtoon and his page of small drawings
cry week. If he took a trip to
id bourne or Hobart or Thursday
Jand, or joined us in a visit to. the Blue
fountains, he spent his usual amount of
•me and labor at his drawing-board, and
sent the results to the office by mail.
He never let up, or let The Bulletin
down for twenty years, and then went on
a world tour, to resume his job on his
T^ Urn, L k° w tired he was of it!
oough it made him famous it was just
a sideline with him, and a means of liveli-
hood.
I remember one week when he was
surtenng agonising pain, he was obliged
o do the work for his customary two
Pages, m pencil, and Mr. Macleod re-
ccived the sheets of Bristol-board at his
bedside, and took them away to fill in
himself with mdian ink. The evening
ollowmg my mother’s funeral found
'■m mournfully seated at his table, busy
im his usual caricatures and their
Jrnorous captions. Through all griefs
d losses of every description, he never
failed or faltered in fulfilling his obliga-
tion to his Bulletin contract.
He toiled throughout each Sunday,
and Monday, working up to midnight,
and on Tuesday morning carried his
finished work to the city. He believed
that Man required one day in seven for
rest, and set aside Wednesday for his
Sabbath, though he did not spend it in
idleness. “A change of work is the Jjest
rest,” he used to say, and on the middle
day of the week he worked in the garden,
made violins and ’cellos as well as
furniture, and produced an occasional
picture of excellent quality in oils or
watercolors. He devoted a considerable
amount of time to etching, and modelled
some caricatures in clay, and also a few
objects of beauty in this medium. There
was a figure of Father Time with his
scythe, leaning upon a clock, below which
was inscribed, of course, “Tempus Fugit.”
He was methodical, and disliked poppers-
in, except on Wednesdays, but visitors
were welcome on this day, and it was his
day for entertaining his friends at lunch
or dinner, and the evening was devoted
to music or to stag-parties in his den,
from which feminine influence was
strictly excluded.
He had a deep affection for “Mac,”
and I cannot imagine his closing a door
in Mr. Macleod’s, or anyone else’s, face;
or keeping the etcher waiting for a
cartoon unless the request for it was
made prematurely. He v was conscientious
to a morbid degree, and he told me once
that he had suffered all his life from
punctuality.
I cannot believe that he ever knocked
a man down. He was never violent,
though capable of great anger; but the
angrier he was the calmer and more
dignified and haughty he became. We
were never spanked or slapped by him
even in our earliest years, when children
are apt to provoke parental wrath and
deserve corporal punishment. He satisfied
himself by saying something sarcastic and
horribly true that would sear the very
soul of an offender and administer a
lesson that would never be forgotten.
His existence as a father was full of
cares, troubles, griefs and disappoint-
ments ; so much so that he said one day
to Mr. Macleod that he ought never to
have married. His chief complaint was
that we were “frivolous,” and did not
have the least idea of the seriousness of
life.
He worked too hard for us, saving and
exercising great self-denial, and making
investments so that he might leave us
comfortably off. This necessitated his
giving a great deal of time and attention
to business matters, which were at
variance with his artistic and literary
leanings. He tried to shelter us from the
world, and save us from hardship, and
yet he was exasperated because we did
hot carve out brilliant careers, as he him-
self had done, without help or encourage-
ment.
As for not submitting to being slapped
on the back! Would Mr. Lindsay enjoy
this gymnastic familiarity himself?
“To show you what a touchy man he
is,” said Mr. Macleod, “he was standing
on a tramline one day, when a young
fellow who was behind him pulled him
out of the way of an oncoming tram.
‘You were nearly run over then, Mr.
Hopkins,’ he said. Hop turned and
looked at him. ‘I suppose you’ve saved
my life,’ he growled, ‘but I don’t like any-
one dragging me about!’ ”
If Mr. Lindsay felt a little hurt by being
reintroduced to Hop every time they
met, it may console him to learn that
Hop did not recognise his own
daughters when he passed them in the
street. If told of the cut afterwards, he
would say something to this effect—“l
didn’t see you, but I do recall noticing a
pair of large feet that seemed strangely
familiar.”
Superstition he did his best to cure in
his own sarcastic, sardonic way. One day
my youngest sister, then about 10 years
old, refused to pass him on the stairs,
explaining that it would be unlucky. He
insisted upon her continuing on her way
instead of turning back, as she attempted
to do. That evening he remarked “I lost
my pocket-book today,” then added
casually, “I must have gone to town with,
my trousers on wrong-side out.”
There is one more disparaging remark
of Mr. Lindsay’s to which I must take ex-
ception, and that is, “If Hop’s cartoons,
inspired by captions from the wit of
Archibald and James Edmond, were de-
vised in the spirit of Bulletin humor.
Hop himself was its antithesis. The sub-
stance of his being was that of a witch-
burning puritan.”
Hop supplied his own captions, and
was responsible for all his own jokes and
humorous ideas. He was humorist,
illustrator and cartoonist in New York
before he was aware that Australia
existed. He wrote a Comic History of
the United States, and books of
humorous verse illustrated by himself for
children.
I object to the expression “witch-
burning puritan” and should like to in-
clude a brief account of Stephen Hopkins
—Hop’s Pilgrim Father.
My authority is Stanley Young, author
of Mayflower Boy, the hero of which is
Stephen’s eldest son, to whom was
accorded the honor of reading the May-
flower Pact to the other passengers of
that histone vessel, while it was anchored
off Cape Cod. The lad’s own diary
furnished some of the material, and was
included in the official records of the first
year of the pilgrims’ progress on that
desolate spot.
Stephen was a naturalist who named
and classified all the trees, shrubs and
herbs, birds, fish, insects and shells which
were found on the shores of Cape Cod,
where the voyagers landed. He was a
tall, handsome, thoughtful, scholarly man.
He was stern and severe, and given to
sarcastic utterances, but kindly and forth-
right, “ ‘a staunch man and courageous
on divers occasions.” He refused to sign
the pact and said, “I will enter no under-
standing that makes every common
sailor, servant and laborer my equal, for
I do not believe him to be so. Religious
tolerance I believe in and accept, but the
laws by which we live our daily lives
should be made and guarded by those
among us who are fitted to make them.”
“Most of us have come here,” argued
the Governor, “believing that men be all
equal before God —that man is brother
to man and must so act.”
“True enough in Scripture, my good
Governor,” replied Stephen, “but in
practice folly. I stand outside your
pact, , . Nay, I cannot sign.”
The sentiment of the majority was
that Master Hopkins be shipped back to
England.
“If we condemn Master Hopkins for
disagreeing with us,” said Governor
Carver, “then where be freedom? If we
be so weak that we fear a man’s objec-
tions, then we be not certain ourselves of
the principles they be founded on. But
in view of the record of the man before
us, let us not vote in anger, but in the
light of what our judgment now may
mean to any among us, who in future
may find himself alone, and daring with
the courage of his convictions to be
alone against the opinions of the rest.”
The hard-lined face had softened, the
dark look was gone, and the eyes under
the heavy brows were misty.
“Now we shall vote,” Governor
Carver said. “Those who stand that
Master Hopkins be returned to England
answer ‘Aye.’ ”
A wild shouting chorus of “Nay!”
broke forth from the assembled company.
“Governor Carver, brethren, friends,”
Stephen began—then hesitated. After a
moment he said in a low voice, “I will
sign the pact,” and a great roar of
cheering arose from the assembled com-
pany.
“Bless you, friend Hopkins,” ex-
claimed the Governor, seizing his hand.
“There will be men after us in this land
who do not agree. Let us trust that they
settle their affairs so easily.”
A few days later, from the deck of the
Mayflower, Stephen noticed that the
bay was full of seals. With others he
set out in a longboat, accompanied by
his son, for a seal-hunt. After the
slaughter they helped load the boat with
the kill, but, deciding that “butchering
was an unpleasant business,” they took
a stroll along the shore until the cutting-
up of the carcasses should be finished
When they reached a small cove they
heard a cry which made them stop, look
and listen. A young seal was moaning
piteously and trying to flip-flop down
the beach to the sea, but it was unable
to gain an inch in the wet sand. They
tried to help it without success. Con-
cluding that it might be hungry, they plied
it with clams, which it refused to eat.
When every effort had failed the boy
said, “Father, you call yourself a good
Pilgrim and a Christian, Does it not
say in the Bible that faith will, remove
mountains?”
“Job was plagued by the Lord, and
had great faith,” replied Stephen, draw-
ing a Bible from his pocket. Opening
it, he began to read the Book of Job to
the stranded creature, in his best lay-
reader manner. It seemed to be rather
interested in the words, “Am Ia seal
or a whale that Thou settest a watch
over me?”
When Stephen’s voice became husky,
his son took on the reading, with faith
that would shift seals ; and at the final
passage the amphibian coughed, and
looked up at his would-be rescuers, with
whiskers distended in a grin, then, with
half a dozen flips, he slid back into the
water and swam away.
“Do you think he went because he
was tired of the reading?” asked the lad.
“Never !” Stephen replied with a smile.
It was Stephen who at the end of a
year of unexampled hardship and
struggle suggested a Thanksgiving day,
and his pretty, cheerful, brave wife
Elizabeth who cooked the first Thanks-
giving dinner.
In conclusion, may I remind Mr.
Lindsay that many years ago he said
that “Hop” was an eagle among robins?
And finally, I should like to express a
sincere admiration for Mr. Lindsay’s
work, and a deep appreciation of his
genius. I have written the foregoing with-
out any enmity or malice towards him.
I have simply tried to write what is true
and just and of good report, of one whose
life was a tragedy of paradoxes.
HATTIE F. HOPKINS.
DERELICT HUT.
Why do they put pennies
On a dead man’s eyes?
It is to close the windows securely
For when the soul flies
Eyes have a look no man should see.
For this same reason the eyes
Of this hut are nailed
With boards, it seems to me.
N.Z.
W. HART SMITH.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 58
Across.
tn^« am l r j tak M S c °PPers to
trump a head ailment. (8)
when 'played tr£ (6) Can mUSic
F (3 a J ay ° f dismissin 8
gather to tease the mutton pun.
ibout a Communist turning thus
3r the screen behind an altar.
I ™ akes d ° u Bh for a number
-bout a number 12* times bigger.
a corpulent
Marxist before the Spanish sing-
.. “8 society in Germany. (11)
™. p nl pce afte u r passin § through the
®?“ r ° r where the elevator lets
out most passengers. (6, 5)
-I'-Pulse in the broth. (5)
-Headdress of feathers suggests
dyspepsia caused by eating a friar,
'i3i s * s us . uall y obliged with a
S™ mber to pronounce a
14 benediction upon the east. (8)
(6>‘ n UPSCt kto s PO d you.
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
25 Most bashful affirmation in the
baby’s resting-place. (6)
26 — vNeeee. (8)
Down.
1 — Use a shovel on a European los-
ing a poison. (9)
2 These legal gentlemen are not
bom between March 21 and
April 21. (8)
3 Umpire is about to iron in
France with ease. (7)
5 Fly, Paul, in great confusion
when somewhat frisky. (7)
6 Hurried up to the rumpus when
bigoted. (6)
7 Thanks spoil a Tasmanian river.
(5)
8 — Parent vessel is not a failure.
(4)
12 —Same again. (5)
15— Penalising a rising Kipling poem
in turning to New Guinea. (6)
16 — This boy is to spoil a crazy source
of Hawaiian music. (9)
17 — Insurance companies provide this
bloke with high dudgeon. (8)
18 — Places for executing big rising
wagers. (7)
19— Party datum on a component of
an electrolyte. (7)
20— Food beside the dirty. (6)
21 — Keynote peps you up. (5)
22 After the mail of an Australian
conductor. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 57.


but flexible tameo cuWert bends with i
-
s
m
■
After a landslide on the road to
the Hague, Rotterdam, Holland, this
18" diameter Armco Corrugated
Nestable Culvert fell to approxi-
mately 7 ft. below its original position
without suffering any damage.
The strength and flexibility of Armco Corrugated Nestable Culverts have been proved
in installations throughout the world. Not only do these culverts stand up to the con-
stant battering of heavy traffic, but they successfully meet the demands made by
unleashed forces of Nature.
Ever since the first Armco culverts were installed in 1906, engineers have realised that
Armco’s challenging slogan, “Look under your roads,” is based on the superior durability
of Armco pipes under actual service conditions.
A staff of competent drainage engineers is at your service at all Armco offices. Write,
call or phone and experts will be only too pleased to advise you on your drainage problems*
7
kfcM CA
V
ARMCO
DRAINAGE PRODUCTS
ARMCO
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret St., Sydney.
422 Collins St., Melbourne, Victoria.
319-325 Queen St., Brisbane, Queensland.
C.M.L. Building, 41 King William St., Adelaide.
