

ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
s
HOUSE O P SEPPELT
The Bulletin
((The Bulletin,” VoL 71-No. 3659
Wednesday, March 29, 1950
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
BUILDWAS ABBEY,
WHERE BENEDICTINE MONKS
ONCE STRODE
TTHE ancient and picturesque ruins of
Buildwas Abbey stand on the bank
of the Severn, near Much Wenlock and
Bridgnorth. The Abbey was founded
on August 8, 1135, on a site given by the
local diocesan, Roger de Clinton, Bishop
of Coventry and Lichfield.
The original foundation was for the
Benedictine monks of the Order of
Savigney—an order which originated in
Normandy and whose adherents believed
in a literal and strict observance of the
Rule of St. Benedict. In later years,
however, the monastery at Buildwas
joined the Cistercian Order, and owing to
its > importance it administered other
foundations in Wales and Ireland.
The peace of Buildwas was disturbed
in 1328 when the abbot was murdered by
a monk who had turned apostate, roam-
ing the country in lay dress and who
managed to elude all efforts to arrest
him. What happened to him is not
recorded, but the murder of the abbot
was followed by a dispute over the elec-
tion of a successor, as there were two
claimants for the vacant office, and con-
sequently the abbey suffered from
neglect.
In the fourteenth century Buildwas
Abbey suffered from the attacks of the
Welsh marauders, who, on one occasion,
were led by Owen Glendower. The later
history of the Abbey was uneventful, and
in 1536, during the reign of Henry VIII,
it followed the fate of the lesser monas-
teries and was surrendered to the Crown.
The annual income of the Abbey at that
time was one hundred and eleven
pounds, which was derived from landed
possessions in and around Buildwas, and
from revenue derived from the toll paid
y passengers over the bridge which
spans the Severn near the monastery.


UmJ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligationJ your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 260
AGE
The Red Page
STENDHAL'S MEMOIRS.
Stendhal’s Memoirs of an Egotist, from
the Turnstile -Press, London, is the first
translation into' English of this delight-
ful little book, and it is astonishing that
we should have been deprived of it for
so long. Certainly, as T. W. Earp says in
his introduction, there is not much move-
ment in the story; but there are brilliant
compensations.
Written in a fortnight when Stendhal
was desperately bored with his existence
as French consul at Civita Vecchia, the
book covers only nine years of the
novelist’s life, from 1821 to 1830, and 1
covers those years incompletely. As it
drifts along or seems idly to circle about
Stendhal’s sojourn in Paris —“the life of a
lonely old bachelor, slightly eccentric,
who dribbles his little income away with-
out very well knowing how to kill time,”
as Leon Blum has described it —at least
one current of narrative may be perceived
under the surface. This is the account
of“ Stendhal’s passion for Mdthilde Dem-
browski of Milan —
I left Milan for Paris on the . . . June,
1821, with the sum of 3500 francs, I
believe, considering that the only happiness
left me was to blow my brains out when
that amount should be exhausted. I
quitted, after three years of intimacy, a
woman whom I adored, who loved me, and
who has never given herself to me. After •
the lapse of so many years, 1 am still seek-
ing the reasons for her behavior —
and, in more immediate detail, the story
of Stendhal’s efforts to persuade himself
not to blow his brains out.
So we find the novelist at the age of
38, fat, dark and far from handsome,
decorated by enormous black whiskers
“of which Mme. Doligny made me
ashamed a year later,” masking his love-
lorn state by “cultivating a wit,” attend-
ing the salon of M. de Tracy and observ-
ing, with admiration and exquisite pre-
cision, such notabilities as General
Lafayette, the hero of the American War
of Independence: —
Of high stature, and on top of this tall
body an impassive countenance, cold, in-
significant as an old family portrait, the
head surmounted as by a hump with a wig
of short hair, badly made—this man, wear-
ing some kind of ill-cut grey costume, and
hobbling a little and leaning on his
stick was, quite simply, one of
Plutarch’s heroes. He lived from day to
day, without too much intelligence,
accomplishing, like Epaminondas, the great
deed when the occasion came....M. de
Lafayette, at the tender age of 75, has the
same fault as I. He is frantic over a young
Portuguese of 18 who comes to Mme. de
Tracy’s receptions, where she is the friend
of his grandchildren.
We find him at the theatre, longing for
Shakspeare and to endure “the
abominable sing-song of the Alexan-
drine.” We learn of his passion for
Mozart and how he gave up playing him-
self because “I was horrified by the
sounds I produced, unlike so many
fourth-rate performers who only owe
their talent —which in the country gives
pleasure every evening—to the boldness
with which each morning they flay their
own ears.” He speaks of his veneration
for Napoleon and relates gossip of the
Bourbons, whom he detests —how he is
“horrified” by “Fat Louis XVIII with his
bull’s eyes, slowly dragged along by his
six fat horses” ; how Louis XVI revenged
himself on Benjamin Franklin. He
goes, among literary journalists and
observes that it is impossible to
tell the truth in Paris because
everybody knows everybody; also that
“the courage to innovate” in the arts
is “the only courage which astonishes in
France.” He sits at cafes with boon
companions and enjoys the company of
the Englishman Edward Edwards, who
had “a noble soul, when it was not ob-
fuscated by fifty glasses of brandy,” and
who was the brother of the famous Dr.
Edwards, the investigator of the respira-
tory system, who “killed a thousand frogs
a month.” He refuses to meet Walter
Scott on the grounds that Scott had been
unjust to Byron, whom he reveres and
with whom he corresponds. He visits,
dismally, the most beautiful courtesan of
the day. And back at M. de Tracy’s
salon, he observes, along with Lafayette,
an unfortunate minor sculptor and anni-
hilates him in as pointed a paragraph as
has ever been written;
Mile. Cabanis, six foot tall and all,
wanted to marry; she espoused a little
dancer with a well-kept wig, M. Dupaty,
supposedly a sculptor, author of the
Louis XIII of the Place Royale, on horse-
back on a kind of mule. That mule is an
Arab horse of which I saw a great deal at
M. Dupaty’s. The poor animal was bored
to death in a corner of the studio.
M. Dupaty gave me a splendid welcome as
a writer on Italy and the author of a
history of painting. It would be difficult
to be more correct, and more devoid of
warmth, spontaneity, initiative, etc., than
was this good fellow. The last of trades
for Parisians, so well got-up, so natty, is
sculpture. M. Dupaty, so courteous, was
• also very brave; he would have done better
to remain a soldier.
Beneath this glittering surface the heal-
ing of Stendhal’s wounded heart pro-
gresses slowly, almost imperceptibly, yet
indubitably. One cannot help feeling a
certain amount of national gratification
in the fact that the recovery was finally
accomplished in England: partly by
Stendhal’s admiration for the acting of
Kean, partly by his interest in the Eng-
lish civilisation —which struck him as in-
sane ; everybody working so grimly that
there was no time to enjoy life or art —
and chiefly, it appears, by the quiet,
domestic happiness he found in a house
in Westminster-road with a certain Miss
Appleby, shy, pale and red-haired, whom
he astounded not so much by sleeping
with a pistol at their bedside as by treat-
ing her with champagne and courtesy, as
a human being.
But, with the broken heart so far be-
low the surface most of the time and
Stendhal so often forgetting it. the
'Memoirs can never be said to amount to
a great love-story. Nor is it primarily a
book of notabilities ; nor a book about
Stendhal as an author. Its abiding fas-
cination is as a picture of a certain kind
of mind, urbane, liberal and aristocratic:
the opposite of that kind of provincial
sluggishness Stendhal found in his boy-
hood friend Crozet —“How superior a
being were M. Crozet had he but in-
habited Paris! Marriage, and above all
the provinces, age a man remarkably, his
wits grow languid, and the action of his
brain, because it is rare, becomes painful
and soon impossible.”
Thomas Earp, who will be best known
in Australia for his generous foreword
to the Fanfrolico book of Hugh Mc-
Crae’s poems, deserves a word, of praise
for the excellence of his translation,
which, not only in its reproduction of
Stendhal’s wit but in the much more diffi-
cult process of rendering French slang
into English—which he does with just the
right touch of irony appropriate to an
aristocrat who spoke of himself as “the
animal” and an author who called his
memoirs “gossip”—always convinces the
reader that he has caught the exact spirit
of the original.
Skin and Armor.
For some ten years, now, W. Somerset
Maugham has been standing on stage, at
the end of the last act, waiting for the
curtain to come down. No one particu-
larly wants the curtain to fall, except
Mr. Maugham; it is he who finds the
tension unendurable; he throws out a
book of short stories, a costume novel,
some more short stories, a film-script;
he writes prefaces of farewell: one feels
that he will be dissatisfied if the curtain
does not fall upon the perfect Last Word,
appropriate not only to the man, but to
the man of exactly his age in, to a month
or so, exactly his times.
Thus he produces his A Writer's Note-
book (Heinemann), a selection from the
notebooks in which, since 1892, for 57
years he has recorded his observations
and reflections, but not as a help to auto-
biography :
I never made a note of anything that I
did not think would be useful to me at one
time or another in my work, and though,
especially in the early notebooks, I jotted
down all kinds of thoughts anji emotions
of a personal nature, it was only with the
intention of ascribing them sooner or later
to the creatures of my invention.
Nevertheless, these sentences and para-
graphs, undated except by the year, make
a portrait of a man who has not changed
much. One little note, in 1904, must
summarise what most readers feel of
Maugham himself:
It was a curious face, heartless and in-
different, indolent and passionate, cold yet
sensual.
And in 1900 he laid down the law from
which he has never deviated:
Am I a minor poet that I should expose
my bleeding vitals to the vulgar crowd?
Not W. Somerset Maugham ; and in
this he is different from Francis Toye,
best known to the world as a music
critic. In his autobiography, For What
We Have Received (Heinemann), Mr.
Toye does not expose his “bleeding
vitals,” exactly; but he does remember
a few details of his youth at Winchester
which only a few, even of men in their
sixties, when such things matter less,
would have the courage to look back
upon. It is not surprising to find that Mr.
Toye has had
a thirty-five-year acquaintance with
Somerset Maugham that has never, on
either side, shown any sign of ripening into
intimacy... .We do not “click,” as they
say.
Maybe this is because Maugham
pushed him aside over a taxi-fare —
“Don’t bother, I can afford it better than
you can” —or because, when Marcel
Boulestin said “Francis Toye is very
clever, isn’t he?” Maugham replied “So
he assures me.” But the underlying
opposition is between a man who lives
happily and undemonstratively in his skin,
and a man who never ventures out of a
suit of armor.
Son of a Winchester housemaster,
Francis Toye was first to have gone into
the diplomatic service; but after an
extensive preparation in German, French,
Italian, Turkish, Arabic, Persian and
Russian, with stays in Germany and Italy
and France to get the way of things, he
came under the influence of Professor
Dent at Cambridge ; spent days and nights
performing and studying music, paid back
to the surprised Foreign Office the
expenses incurred in his diplomatic begin-
nings, and set out to be a great singer;
despaired, became music critic for
“Vanity Fair,” washed-about in a “futile
and agreeable” manner in London for
six or eight years and, just before World
War I, married in America the divorced
daughter of a Philadelphia Quaker family
who Had spent most of her life in Italy.
Early in the war, C 3 because of his feet,
he went with his wife to Genoa to spy
upon materials going through the port to
Germany. Then he went into the. Codes
and Ciphers Department in London, after
which he became a Press Censor. Within
five months he reached the second “major
mistake,” which meant automatic dis-
missal, by letting through a reference to
a lightship. He became an interpreter in
a p.-0.-w. camp ; and then was put into
the Navy, into the secret department
I.D. 25. At the end of the war, he worked
six months with Heinemann’s with view to
partnership; quarrelled with the old
man ; became head of the Mond Nickel
Currency Department, his duties being to
run around the world persuading the
nations to take up nickel currency.
With the post-war slump “the Austrian
Krupp, working on a depreciated cur-
rency, could always make cheaper
(nickel) blanks than we” ; and Mr. Toye
became a “Daily Express” leader-writer,
from which, after a few years, he trans-
ferred to music critic of the “Morning
Post,” from which he branched out into
music talks for the 8.8. C., the coaching
of singers and the management of
Boulestin’s restaurant.
Francis Toye wrote two important
biographies, of Rossini and Verdi; and he
has two lesser-known achievements not
without effect upon our life and times.
The first was that, as an I.D. 25 officer,
he had to make up his mind whether or
not to call out the British Navy towards
the end of the war, when the information
coming in seemed to add up to the
German Fleet’s moving out to sea. A
tentative suggestion to * “Operations”
pushed him back on his own responsi-
bility :
I left Operations room with the convic-
tion that I was “for it” either way and that
the only thing to do was to give myself
another hour before taking the plunge. It
was just before four, I think, that I made
up my mind. Over I went again to Opera-
tions to tell them that it was my opinion
that the German Fleet was moving and
that they must act as they thought fit. So
)n the space of an hour or two England
spent some half a million pounds; the
D.N.I. and, in all probability, the First
Lord of the Admiralty, not to mention the
sea lords and a whole bevy of admirals
and captains, Were roused from their beds
by the insistent ringing of the telephone.
How I sweated! The cold, clammy sweat
of sheer funk! Presently Admiral Hall
and Captain James arrived; but by that
time it had become clear that something
was up, that the German fleet was indeed
in motion. I seem to remember —or it may
be a remembrance born of wishful thinking
—that the D.N.I. clapped me on the
back
That was the German fleet coming out
to die in action; and the mutiny of
German sailors which ended with Scapa
Flow.
His second achievement was, as Heine-
mann’s reader, introducing to the public
a young Armenian called Dikran
Kouyoumdijian Michael Arlen
through his first book, A London
Venture :
I read the book and liked it; so did
Evans. Heinemann then read it and dis-
liked it, though not so much as he disliked
the author Nevertheless I, strongly
supported by Evans, stuck to my guns
Eventually Heinemann gave way on the
condition that he was not bothered and
that the least possible of money was spent.
So Evans and I got bmv o„,*
A London Venture in a paner rn Produc «d
extremely low price. P Per CoVer at an
What an untidy life what „
book, is this of Francis’ Toye’s
beside Maugham's, where for
half a century every action and 11)111
Nervation has been p eVe T
moulded into authorship! Ther*
numerable notes for stories:— are in '
Jamie and his wife. Two stnrim,
who do nothing but read novelf
hve a perfectly monotonous life hm -P
spirit, a life of romance All fhJ n l^e
penences are fiction. They had a k^ r ex '
the baby died Jam,"'hoped" ft «
wife wouldn’t have another. l t m,t ,>*
the tenor of their lives. After the f Urfscd
they both settled down with a siS o fTrl
to the new novels that had just com! (
the library. 1 come fr om
deS°- are back ~no.es for
Chicago. The hogs are driven into cent
and they come squealing as if thev u,
what was before them; they are auiS
by the.hind leg and swung /rom a“e,S
bar which takes them to where a man in
blue overalls splashed with blood stand"
with a long knife s
So it goes on ; scenes of the First World
War Mrs Langtry engaging taxi-dancers
m New York (used m one of his later
stories); kanakas at Waikiki, Jewish
passengers on a boat in the Pacific the
lagoon at Papeete, a Secret Agent j n
Russia, evening in Petrograd, sunset in
Sarawak, Charles Chaplin in the slums
of Los Angeles: “Say, this is the real
life, isn’t it? All the rest is just sham”
a Dyak house ; Merauke ; Mandalay ■ a
Resident Councillor ; a girl who married
a West Indies planter, and discovered that
he was a negro at heart and that she was
pregnant; Yogis in India; Wells in New
York ; a London barber who was fond of
Paradise Lost; the architecture and
atmosphere of Cordova, Alcald dc
Henares, Las Meninas ; a lady:
She was successful, well-off, admired;
she had a host of friends. She should have
been a very happy woman, but she wasn’t,
she was miserable, nervous and dis-
contented. Psychoanalysts could do nothing
for her. She couldn’t tell them what ailed
her, because she didn’t know herself. She
was in search of her tragedy. Then she
fell in love with a young airman, many
years younger than herself, and became his
mistress. He was a test-pilot, and one day,
when he was trying a machine, something
went wrong and he crashed. He was killed
before her eyes. Her friends were afraid
she would commit suicide. Not at all.
She became happy, fat and contented. She
had had. her tragedy.
It is like watching a wonderfully-
efficient mincer at work; it is as though
all human life, swinging by the hind-leg
from a moving bar, were being brought
before a man in blue overalls splashed
with blood, who stands with a long
knife ...
As a writer, Francis Toye may not
share the longevity of Somerset Maugham;
babbling of his marriage, his house, his
holidays at Saint-Jacut-de-la-Mer, his
mother-in-law, his sister’s happy marriage
to a salesman, his brother’s career as a
conductor ended by his success as a
London businessman, his domestic
arrangements, his wife’s villa at Portofino.
his life among the Bright Young Thing'
of London, his friends, drawn more with
good intentions than with precision, I°> c
has obviously enjoyed everything too
much to have made literary use of it.
But suppose, having put all your €g£ s
into one basket, and watched the baskc,
and having arrived at a goal towar
which all your activities had been
directed, you were to meditate up
Fame, and say, as Maugham says,
like having a string of pearls. B ivcn ( - u .
It’s nice, but after a while, if youi
of it at ail, it’s only to wonder it they
real or cultured” —then, it seems p
able, although one knows nothing o
private life of Mr. Maugham, hat' 1
must have been much nicer to have
Mr. Toye.
For the Dockyard.
E. P. Harnack’s All About Ships <m*
Shipping (Faber) is all about s P? fueJ
shipping ; from consumption or g
and the parts of a full-rigged sh Charts,
of the Road at sea, soundings, c
ocean depths and weather wl '.j sts
gale warnings, flags of ou s ff s ; h r e chr’ono-
of lighthouses, how to treat tn
meter and how to recognise spe
Sh tSf Warship.” present
who knows a little about tna . { jj e ir
shipping, and who until he (]ie
mention was immensely : 0 f Mr-
amount, variety and readabi .
Harnack’s facts and figures Anstrali 3
The author says our cruiser a
has six eight-inch, but when s y f, a d
spected as late as last month a pd
all eight teeth. Aronta, destro yers.
Warramunga, our Tnbal-clas vvdth
according to Mr. Harnack, ‘ jn-
eight four-inch; which >mP c peC tacle
competence on the part ot
(Continued on inside back co\


"TRUThSin ADVERTISING”
Anthony
Bordens’
r~s.
&
wr:
-S*
s=a
//^
•AVVS.
Sfss
m
m
in. A
m
m
m.
SB
as
%
\ A
®S
$i
mt:
m
.-it'i*
JBG ' ..tf
A Cordial Invitation to Visit
We want you to see our show display and enjoy the surprises we have in store for you, so we
won’t take the coating off the gingerbread by giving away secrets now. But we can say we re
going to feature home furnishings again with furnished rooms as well as individual displays.
sags®
yt
> : : :
mmmm
mm
H
V ; V-: ;
.
>5
m
m
H
tig
: .xfe
tv
111
<7;£3?&
M
•^''
.-V<
SI
2*^
I These photographs illustrate some of our past displays.
Our team of men have been working for months getting the pavilion ready. The craftsmen
in our factory are full of enthusiasm for our new furniture designs which are
still on the secret list. So be sure you see Anthony Horderns Pavilion this year.
r HONY HORDERNS’ ’PHONE M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT) BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY BRICKFIELD HILL
Again this year we are making a special
display of modern furniture fashioned
along contemporary lines , all made in our
oivn workshop from the design of Miss
Joyce Brown of ABC • radio fame , our
furniture adviser snd furnishing consultant.
Furniture
Furnishings
Agricultural
Electrical Appliances
China and Glassware
Carpets and Rugs


.. Worlds leader
in Fire Protection
: x ; •' v.:
\ -
s
* .. f
' ?**
=*»
i
■•?'■'* i
jjg& S|gj^
0
338 m
:
m
3S
i
ft
I
;||>
lltllfl
II
••;.• v-
»M
' ♦ *
II
ii\
lltlllll
m
il
is
I
IMS
mmm
it;
*•*
w"*M-
hi
1«
:
s
r
m
II
t f j
m§
m
il*
m
m
mm
\
I
SSai
Ck
Protecting thousands of millions of
pounds worth of the world's property .
Grinnell stops fire at its
source, automatically, at
anytime during the day or
night. Protects building,
contents, employees’ jobs
and goodwill.
Grinnell does more than
that. It safeguards the very
intangibles of your busi-
ness, too. Guards against
the loss of irreplaceable
goods . . . cancelled con-
tracts . . . lost profits . . .
destruction of vital records
. . . loss of trained em-
ployees obliged to seek
jobs elsewhere.
If your business or
property has not Grinnell
protection, Wor maid
Brothers’ experienced en-
gineers will make a survey
of your building, point out
the real danger spots, with-
out obligation.
Wormald Brothers
maintain a complete fire
protection service at all
branches located through-
out Australia and New;
Zealand.
Automatic Sprinkler
and Alarm System
WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRIES LIMITED-
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889
WORMALD BROTHERS (EAST) LTD., Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane. Townsville. WORMALD BROTHERS (SOUTH) LTD., Melbourne. Adela.de, Perth, o .
WORMALD BROTHERS (N.Z.) LTD., Wellington, Auckland. Christchurch. Dunedin.


The Bulletin
3659
Wednesday, March 29, 1950
THE ONE THAT GOT AWAY.
“It is reported that a zoo expedition is going to Tasmania to hunt for a native tiger."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
ROLLING STRIKE ACTION.
“Now I, William John McKell, the Gov-
ernor-General .... acting with the advice
of the Federal Executive Council, am of
opinion and do hereby proclaim that there
exists m Australia a serious industrial dis-
turbance prejudicing and threatening trade
and commerce with other countries and
among the States.”
This prelude to the proclamation last
Thursday of Section 30J of the Common-
wealth Crimes Act was elaborated by
the Prime Minister with facts on the
Communist tactic of the “rolling strike,”
and the consequent disruption and
damage, calculated to arouse the backing
of every honestly loyal Australian who
heard him or who reads those shocking
facts.
On the day the anti-Communist action
was taken 12 ships were already tied up
in the port of Brisbane. It was antici-
pated with certainty that within another
four days there would be a total of 36
tied up, and the position would be chaotic.
With shortage of steel retarding the
building of homes, crippling industry and
preventing manufacture in every State,
one ship had been waiting for a berth for
10 days with 4000 tons of steel; another
10.000 tons was due on two other ships
which would be tied up also.
So with other urgent cargoes, includ-
ing 25,000 bales of wool not yet shipped
from the wool-sales which ended in
February. The Maloja left behind 10,000
cases of butter. Three other ships left
behind nearly 5000 tons of general cargo.
When the, if anything, belated action
against the “rolling-strike” wreckers was
taken the Moreton Bay was a fortnight
behind schedule and overdue to load
33.000 cases of pears for Britain. Three
killings of meat, each intended as a ship’s
export cargo, had had to be disposed of.
The “rolling strikes” responsible for
that chaos have been, as Mr. Menzies
said, “occasioned by a policy of action
which no responsible Government could
tolerate, and which the exasperated people
of Australia would not in any event
allow a Government to tolerate.” In
view of the great damage already done,
the “exasperated people” of Australia
might have, appeared to any outsider
almost complacently indifferent to what
was happening to them. A more accurate
reading of their attitude would be that
they had kicked out the Chifley Socialists
above all for craven failure to halt the
Communist sabotage of Australia, and
elected the Menzies Government above
all on the confident understanding that
it would show the courage the Chifleys
lacked.
And, after all, it is no more than the
courage that should be expected of states-
manship that is called for, both in deal-
ing with this current Communist assault
and in the wider action which, Mr.
Menzies indicated, the present belated and
vitally urgent counter-move foreshadows:
We are proposing at an early date to in-
troduce into this Parliament legislation
specifically designed to deal with the
Communist enemies once and for all. But
in the meantime we shall not allow the
position to drift. We propose to use the
powers which now exist in Commonwealth
legislation to carry the fight to the
Communists.
If ever a dear mandate was given a
Government the Australian people on
December 10 gave precisely that mandate
—to carry the fight to the Communists.
The Chifleys were defeated because there
was no confidence whatever that they
would do it, what might of the
country.
The action on that given mandate
reaffirms the Menzies Government’s right
to the public confidence. It has been
taken on that assumption, and on the
assumption that the public support is as
strong now, or even stronger. Appropri-
ate counter-action against the vicious
Communist assault had been long over-
due. The notion—ruthlessly exploited
everywhere by' Communists—that demo-
cracy is bound by its own nature to
stand impotent while a foreign conspiracy
uses a minor section of the community
to destroy it is too silly for words.
In effect, this preliminary move to deal
with the Communists “once and for all”
is itself a rolling strike in another sense
of the words. Upholding arbitration,
Mr. Menzies strikes to get the wheels
of industry rolling for all Australia.
Mr. Fadden's Banking Bill.
Liberal-C.P. criticism of the Banking
Bill of 1945 introduced by the Curtin
Government might reasonably have been
taken as foreshadowing the wiping-out of
the obnoxious sections of that Act. Mr.
Menzies, in a magnificent speech on
June 21, 1945, declared that;
At best this legislation will restrict the
development of the trading banks and limit
the services they render to their customers
and at worst it will crush the trading banks
out of existence altogether and thus bring
about the acquisition of their property, but
not on just terms.
Mr. Fadden held the measure up as a
piece of machinery designed to provide
a key to the industrial citadel —“the key
to the back-door of socialisation in Aus-
tralia.” His objection to the 1945 legisla-
tion on the ground of the abolition of
the Bank Board was only one feature of
his attack upon it. Mr. Ghifley in 1945
plumped for control of the Common-
wealth Bank by the governor and the
Treasurer, an arrangement to whiph Mr.
Fadden was violently opposed because it
was “political whichever party is in
power.” What Mr. Fadden proposes
by way of remedy is that control of the
bank’s policy shall be shifted from the
governor and Treasurer to the governor
and some of his subordinates and civil-
service colleagues, who form the majority
of a curious board, they being subject to
the qualification that the governor shall
work in “close liaison” with the Trea-
surer and under his close supervision;
and that the Governor - General in
Council may veto the Board’s proceedings
and alter its policy, and shall report what
he has done to both Houses of Parlia-
ment “within fifteen sitting days,” which
may mean three or five months after the
board has been overridden if the Parlia-
ment happens not to be in session.
This somewhat cumbersome arrange-
ment, with its core of bureaucratic con-
trol, seems to be still “political,” and
therefore open to some objection, though
it is an improvement on the Labor plan
and at least allows Parliamentary debate
and decision on policy in extreme cases—
that is, if the damage is not done be-
fore Parliament has the chance of re-
view. It differs from “Labor’s” plan suf-
ficiently widely, indeed, to assure that it
is to become a matter for a major Oppo-
sition challenge.
But the fact remains that the most ob-
noxious of the main provisions of the
1945 Banking Act have been retained to
guide both the Government and the new
Bank Board in their operations and
policies, these provisions having been
earlier criticised v by both Mr. Menzies
and the present Treasurer.
So far from now believing that the
1945 Act is a key to socialisation by the
back-door, Mr. Fadden declared in his
second-reading speech on the amending
bill that it was “appropriate to recall that
the essential features of the 1945 banking
legislation were based upon war-time
banking-control regulations, which them-
selves were based upon an agreement
arranged between the Commonwealth
Bank and the private banks in 1941
during my previous term of office as
Treasurer.” Also that
The pattern of central-bank-private-bank
relationships at present embodied in legis-
lation does not differ in essentials from the
arrangements which I caused to be in-
stituted in 1941.
He declares that a considerable mea-
sure of harmony and co-operation and
the broad purpose of monetary and bank-
ing policy have been achieved, and that
for this reason and the fact that it is
“undesirable to make frequent changes
in the legislative requirements of the
banking system,” the Government has
“decided to preserve the general pattern
of control by the Commonwealth Bank
over the banking system and the broad
structure of the Commonwealth Bank.”
The provisions of the Act now could
be no less a menace to free enterprise
and to the established banking system
than five years ago if a Govern-
ment with malign intentions toward the
banks were in office. When the original
bill was passed it was framed deliberately
as a first step towards complete socialisa-
tion not only of banking but of industry.
The system under which banks must
hold the licence of the Governor-General
to carry on Mr, Fadden once believed
would “put all our financial institutions in
a straitjacket.” The special accounts
sections of the 1945 Act Mr. Fadden at
the time described as sections “under
which the Treasurer may freeze the opera-
tions of private enterprise,” adding that
“these clauses really provide for the
socialisation of industry.” He said that
under them the banking system of the
country must inevitably deteriorate and
must cease to be of substantial value in
the economic fabric of the nation:
This is the most effective way in which
private enterprise can be curbed and the
banks can be strangled and nationalised
without proper regard for constitutional
requirements.
Yet this part of the Chifley Bill remains,
with all its arrangements under which the
trading banks are compelled to lodge up
to the whole of increases in their deposits
at a rate of interest limited to 17s. 6d. per
cent, maximum and which is now \ per
cent, per annum, or 3 per cent, less than
the depositing banks have to pay if they
desire temporarily to borrow back some
of their own money from the Central
Bank, This was supposedly purely an
anti-inflationary expedient, but it is still
subject to all the criticism aimed at it by
the Opposition in 1945, and is still capable
of grave misuse in the hands of an un-
scrupulous Government, in spite of the
new Government’s acceptance of it and
the trading banks’ submission to it.
Mr. Fadden has excluded those engaged
in trading-bank operations or “represen-
tative special interests” specifically from
the Bank Board, a provision which applies
to central and reserve banks nowhere
else in the British-speaking world. He
in fact perpetuates the Labor theory that
the Commonwealth Bank is a sort of
police headquarters and not the focal
point of national financial organisation
in which all resources and financial know-
ledge can be pooled and co-operation be-
tween public and private finance ration-
alised.
And he seems to be prepared to accept
the pernicious doctrine that because its
victims have submitted to something
which is against public policy, or because
things undesirable, such as the unified
control of the central banking and indus-
trial and general sections of the Com-
monwealth Bank, have become so deeply
rooted that they are difficult to reform
or liquidate, inequities involved should be
retained.
The Royal Commission on Banking, in
a finding approved by Mr. Fadden, en-
visaged a set-up under which the Com-
monwealth Bank and the trading banks
would co-operate in the distribution of
credit, the Commonwealth Bank to
control only the volume of credit. Subject
to the sane policing of bank trading and
the management of exchange, this seems
to state the ideal normally aimed at in
all modem British-speaking countries
except Australia, where the system needs
clarifying and reducing to order and
sanity, somewhat on the lines upon which
banking is governed in Canada,
That Dominion, like ourselves, has the
branch trading-bank system and central-
bank control as far as the need goes.
There the Government makes full use of
the experience of trading bankers, and
the Canadian Bankers’ Association is a
powerful feature of the machinery of
credit-control and financial stability. The
Bank of Canada, the official central bank,
stock in which is all owned, by the
Canadian Government, acts as a bankers’
and central bank, as does the Bank of
England, and does not compete with the
trading banks.
It is beside the point that the Aus-
tralian trading banks have from time to
time announced through their spokesmen
that they would not demand the repeal
of the Banking Act of 1945. Bankers
generally apparently have reached the
point at which they are afraid to make
demands lest worse than they already
suffer befall. But in the interests of the
community, the 1945 Banking Act cer-
tainly requires some drastic revision to
tone down features designed by Labor to
weaken the existing trading-bank system
as a preliminary to the destruction of free-
enterprise banking, as a first step toward
socialisation.
And some permanency needs to be
established in policy regarding banking
control and functions which will assure
that central banking ceases to be subject
to political change every time a Govern-
ment changes.
N.S.W. "Labor" Brawl.
Artemus Ward some time ago described
the condition of a gentleman who
bought a fight but miscalculated the strik-
ing force of his opponent. Alongside the
shutter on which friends carried him
home his mother greeted him (in Artemus
Ward’s spelling) with this:
My son, I see how it is distinctually.
You’ve been foolin around with a thrashin
machine. You went in at the place where
they put the grain in, cum out with the
straw, and you got up into the thingamy
jig, and let the horses tred on you, didn’t
you, my son?
Premier McGirr of N.S.W. looked
something like that after his scrap with
the Sydney A.L.P, executive. It took him
a little time —and the help of friends —
to discover that he had been insulted as
well as attacked by the •
mittee of his own party a & °! ernmg com-
able slab (in the & ** a *>nsidg.
own caucus. He uLr, ** oUse ) of
Premiership ( to caucus), wasT* the
to reconsider that step hi £f rsuadecl
caucus, which nevertheless I i he . sa ™e
about choosing his successoj. Set
firm and made hri’mignatio n ° bly stood
spokesman for his aS Stlck if the
A.L.P. executive had no g n S \° n
silence which, as lll3l
the safest role for the mal tS d S3ys - “is
himself.” Nothing so , dlstl 'usts
behavior of N.S.W.’s incredd? as the
Premier till Mr. Kin? who J' U ? fltted
self that he had “been n l° f him ‘
before so many times that I outer
count.” began unscrewing th e lost
n/tow C °»
ptjs l^srSS?
Legislative Council vacancies sec ? t f ° r
S if rissed - *> S °, r
rigging?* 10 mterfered thai
a FOU lj *' t^ak,or ” members of thp
Assembly were suddenly banned for nr.
selection, not in their constituencie hu
Ho *5? central executive, which decided to
do the pre-selecting itself. When Mr
McGirr having been rebuffed by them
proposed to resign. Mr. King and S
fellow-tm-gods evidently wished the act to
be speedily completed. They are all of
them, or nearly all, members of caucus as
holding Legislative Council seats, but their
distrust for mere Assembly members of
caucus seems to have mounted daily.
Mr. King opened his mouth and
put both feet—together with his boots—
l n He introduced his
boots Mr. McGirr, he said at the Indus-
tr L ia , 1 1 . Groups conference, had “acted
childishly” and went on:
Mr. McGirr is letting the movement
down m his desire to defend individuals
w . ho - lam assured, are guilty of breaches
of A.L.P. rules... .When it was vital to
vote for Labor candidates in the Upper
House, four Labor politicians allegedly
broke away from the ticket
The executive [himself being one of its
numbers] has every right to sit in judg-
ment on those responsible for the betrayal
of party rules
Some politicians have as much sym-
pathy for the Labor movement as my
boots.
Thus, like Mr. Chifley sham-fighting
the Communists, Mr. King went into it
“boots and all.” He, one of the judges,
was “assured of the guilt” of parties who
had “allegedly” broken the rules, and
“had every right to sit in judgment” on
them. Stamping in his jackboots about
the whole field of the “Labor” squabble
Mr. King said a lot of other silly things—
silly for his purpose, but very illuminat-
ing to the public.
His reference to his losing count of the
times he had been “on the outer” with
the A.L.P. made him look less than ever
like one who has a right to judge any-
body. It sent his hearers back to the
time when he was official trade-union
leader for the Communist party, an
official of the Australian section of the
Red International of Trade Unions, a
delegate to the seat of class-war worship
at Moscow, a stand-in with the Com-
munists’ anti-recruiting campaign i
1939-40. He ended by stating his opinion
that loyalty to the “Labor P lat
policy—abolition of the Legisla
Council, of State Parliaments altogether,
and of the foolish,
“childish” and provocative of dissensio
in the A.L.P.” . the
The loud laugh that went up at in
sight of Mr. King refusing to aflow M;
McGirr the award of even the
prize for political imbecility
heard all over .Australia.
executive’s president, ML L gunjst-
aforetime a member of the Com u
run Militant Minority
“not now” a member of the om {hat
party- —was moved to tell th o .u on (a-
Mr. King’s statement “is n° t a h d an d
tivebut that “of a widely respect
trustee, Federal and State
member secretary of theJ o£ the
Labor Council, N.S.W. me oto r
A.C.T.U. executive— also P like tria j
S e „u a . nd diS a o n f“our fellow-"^
PO &Mc r rco^~t^
(which be
taneously made public). were the
Where, when and . guilty? *
four Parliamentarians adjudg eacb ox
What was the charge as*
them ? hen charged?
Were they present wnen
What was the evidence? defence-
Were they heard m the depe* d
and his resignation, he »


on Mr. , Kin fthaUiftad noi
'“‘l'twer he lS£ adding .hat “Mr,
time to answe sition W ell enough.
MgSMSTSfa-McOirr second
th0 A U l| h concerned then busied themselves
caucus voting for yet another
Ssual vacancy in the Legislative Council,
which (“S. M. Herald” report)—
jn Whicn t the Parliamentary
i hnr oany was given a separate “how-
Labor pai y ( f^rent j a i system); Labor-
to-vote caret tp c j aimei } that by this
PB rineement scrutineers would be able to
JSSTSSto any member ot caucus
deviated from the party ticket.
Otherwise necessary precautions for
Secy of the ballot seem to have been
° HieSmportance to this Barnum-show
of ignoring the “Labor” plank for aboli-
tion of the Leg. Council is of course
that the McGirr Ministry, self-condemned
of complete impotence even to run its
own party in Parliament, is headed
straight for the scrap-heap at the coming
NS W. general elections, and its con-
temptuous bosses, the A.L.P. State execu-
tive will want a majority in the Council
to oppose the incoming Liberal-Country
Government. That incoming Govern-
ment might unseat some of these Leg.
Councillors who hold their places through
abuse, confessed and unashamed, of the
secret’ ballot required; these have dis-
credited themselves politically with the
real electors of Parliament, who may be
trusted to confirm that verdict beyond
doubt.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Chifley Unmasks Himself.
This year’s A.L.P. conferences in N.S.W.
and Victoria may produce some genuine
expression of “Labor” opinion on the
causes of the Chifley Government’s signal
defeat at the late elections. Hitherto
the inquest has been mostly conducted in
private. But the other day Mr. Chifley
let out at the party’s Macquarie district
assembly views of his own singularly at
odds with all his statements during the
election campaign.
While the elections were on nothing
could induce him to admit that socialisa-
tion was the supreme issue. Mr. Chifley
now talks differently. He had to meet
charges that he led his Government to
the polls without any constructive pro-
posals. To this criticism from the ranks
he made answer on his home stamping-
ground:— ,
Socialism versus capitalism was the real
issue. It was a straight-out battle between
these two great forces We played for
pretty big stakes, but ours was the first
attempt to bring real Labor policy into
effect.
“Real Labor policy,” he now confesses,
is socialisation, and the stakes were
“pretty big.” But play over again that
famous cold-storage record which was
Mr. Chifley’s method of delivering his
policy speech, and this is what anyone
will hear:
Our opponents will endeavor to catch
votes by raising scares and bogeys. False
and malicious statements are being
circulated to the effect that the Labor party
intends to nationalise all industry. The
Labor party has no desire and no plan to
do anything of the kind....
There will be scares about nationalisa-
tion [As for banking] the Government
cannot go beyond its constitutional powers
There has never been any mystery
about the Labor party’s platform and
policy. It is known to all, whether it deals
with social security, shipbuilding, banking
or help for Britain.
What Mr. Chifley himself made all the
mystery about was the party’s “Rfed
Objective,” set out first, foremost, and
unqualified in the policy platform —“The
nationalisation of industry, production,
distribution and exchange.” Now,
cornered after defeat, he admits that this
was the “real issue,” and the “real Labor
policy.”
The country knew it and accepted it,
not from the Socialist leader, but from
Mr. Menzies.
And Mr. Chifley, standing pat on his
hand, was “playing for pretty big stakes,”
was he? Everyone knew what was in it,
did they? Well, his critic in the Mac-
quarie assembly did not know these
things; “the election policy,” he said,
“had no constructive proposals.” Dr.
Evatt did not know about it; he told
every meeting he addressed that the only
issue was “full employment.” Melbourne
Trades Hall Council did not know about
it; at its post-mortem debate the
F.E.D.F.A. delegate aroused no dissension
when he said that “the Labor party had
run away from the Socialist programme
and apologised for it.” The recent
annual country conference of the Vic-
torian A.L.P. did not know about it; it
decided that “weak propaganda” and
apathy were the causes of defeat, and
one delegate related how at one meeting
he attended exactly four persons turned
up and had to go home because “nobody
could find the key of the hall door.”
“We played for pretty big stakes,” says
Mr. Chifley. If he did, he was like the
man who sat down to the poker-game
and staked the home and the furniture,
including the grand piano bequeathed to
the missus by her mother —and did not
tell the missus. ‘
Using the Murray.
Having been told by a deputation from
Murray Valley Development League that
what is now wanted to open up that part
of Australia for land settlement and in-
dustrial expansion is a ' “co-ordinating
authority” supported by the Common-
wealth, Victorian, South Australian and
N.S.W. Governments, the Prime Minister
has spoken of calling a conference of the
four Governments.
As to that, the deputation assured
him that Victoria and S.A. were
“willing,” but that N.S.W. was “hesitant
so far.” Sydney has always been “hesi-
tant” about Murray Valley development,
largely from the parochial view that any
such development is likely to benefit
Melbourne and Adelaide more than
Sydney.
Victoria and S.A. first opened up the
Murray irrigation settlements; N.S.W.,
which claims ownership of the water in
the river as far as the S.A. border, had
only one tiny settlement (Curlwaa)
actually using Murray water until the
yet-undeveloped Deniboota and Wakool
schemes got going a few years ago.
Right now the Murray Valley has the
nation’s greatest water and hydro-
electricity resources in Hume Dam, the
Kiewa undertakings and the Snowy
River scheme. The last two, when com-
plete, will put the area beyond the reach
of drought and coal strikes. It should
be a foregone conclusion that no Com-
monwealth Government, irrespective of
any Sydney Government’s attitude, can
fail to realise the M.V.D.L.’s point that
the next urgent move is the formation
of the authority it seeks.
Ashley's Expensive Baby.
Advocates of State Socialism should
take a good look at the figures of the
Australian Shipping and Shipbuilding
Boards under the “Labor” regime.
It might have been thought that earlier
experience with the Commonwealth Ship-
ping (Bay) Line would have cured
“Labor” of all desire to carry on ship-
ping enterprises not absolutely forced
upon them. But no. With costs rising
and loafing in the shipbuilding industry
and among seamen and wharfies reduced
to a fine art, the Chifley Government and
its agent, Senator Ashley, were engaged
in plunging into new depths of enterprise
when December 10 luckily put an end to
their alarming operations.
• The losses on these were then already
under “continuous investigation” by the
Auditor-General, who, in his last annual
report, expressed alarm at their “magni-
tude” —with which, on the figurles he
gave, he had not as yet become fully con-
versant. The whole truth, or as much of
it as can be dredged to the surface, was
revealed in the Senate last week by
Senator McLeay, Minister for Shipping.
It appears that “Labor” took over the
Shipping Board in 1941 when the board
had a credit balance of £5,000,000. After
ships were derequisitioned in 1947 freights
were increased 15s. per ton. A further
increase of 17s. was made in 1948 and
still another of 15s. in June, ,1949. Yet
the board’s annual losses from 1946 to
1949 inclusive were from £2,000,000 to
£2,600,000 per year. During this period
loading charges increased from 2s. lOd.
per hour to ss. per hour. Output per
wharfie gang per hour fell from 25 to 12
tons.
The Government’s State dockyards
built a 9000-ton “A”-class ship for
£720,000 at a time when private enter-
prise, working on cost-plus basis, built
two for respectively £549,000 and
£651,000.
Senator Ashley, confronted in the
Senate with audited shipping losses for
eight years of “Labor” misrule, totalling
£23,100,000 —a loss uniform in the run-
ning of requisitioned ships, chartered ships
and ships owned by the Shipping Board —
said unblushingly that the deficits were
“not nearly as bad as they appeared” ;
that they were incurred in “saving Aus-
tralia” during the war, though many of
the heaviest losses were incurred after
it, and that they were due to the Gov-
ernment having to undertake “un-
economical voyages which private enter-
prise would not have touched because
there was no money in them.”
The situation seems to call for no
comment save by way of drawing atten-
tion to the present industrial chaos on
the wharves and in shipping, and to the
fact that these and previous recent dis-
orders were planned during a period in
which the secretary of the Wharflaborers’
Union and others of his brand were
acting for fat pay as Government-
approved nominees in the management of
the stevedoring and maritime industries in
general.
These protdgds of Senator Ashley and
his caucus produced conditions which
were “uneconomic” all right!
Rivers Running Wild.
Dorothea Mackellar’s “wilful, lavish
land” has been living up to that depic-
tion. Continuous rains from the Gulf
to Bass Strait have brought coastal and
inland rivers up and spread their waters
far and wide, submerging towns, drown-
ing people and stock, destroying property,
rooting out river-bend “hatters” and
generally playing Old Harry in the four
eastern mainland States.
The end is not yet, for the long, wind-
ing, slow-running inland rivers cover
thousands of miles, and what one district
gets today another 200 miles away gets
next week or the week after.
The familiar story of the floods is one
of desperate rescues, heroism and sus-
tained hard work as men everywhere
struggle to block or turn the waters and
save life and property. Families, groups
and sometimes communities are camped
on hills while others get food and com-
fort to them by boat, horse and aero-
plane.
Reading their papers or listening to
radio descriptions, city people are re-
minded that their well-being depends on
(Continued on next page.)
THREE MEN IN A FLOOD.


6661 E-R
CRAVEN "A"
Their quality and smoothness
is unmistakable
made specially ib
ptevmtsoie tktomk
m
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
that same country. They can tdo
about it except give freely when th
for money, food and blankets com .
give freely they do. Whats mor ’
expect their Governments to act pro* “j
and generously wherever there is .
flood-made
monious spirit of the Chm y
first miserable grant to the suff re
the Kempsey flood last y ear ’ * ble to
fortunately, nothing quite comp rt y
the loss of human life, stock an P
in that Macleay River flood has happe
this time.
POLITICAL POINTS
With the coast cleared by the weekend
amnesty granted their suspended
members, Brisbane watersiders reported
for duty on Monday morning. This by
no means spelt the end of rolling strikes.
The most noticeable feature of the
Westralian election campaign was the
failure of all parties to arouse in the
electors anything remotely approaching
enthusiasm. Saturday’s poll reflected
this; an apathetic electorate doesn’t toss
out a Government —nor does it help it to
pile up an increased majority. Unless
there are last-minute surprises in the dis-
tribution of preferences and absent votes
the relative strengths of Government and
Opposition parties will be unchanged.
L.C.L.-Country party, 25 ; Independents,
two; “Labor,” 23. There will be a
change in the composition of the two
Government parties. In the old Parlia-
ment the Libs, held 14 seats and the
Country party 11; likely figures for the
new House are 16 and nine. Had the
Coalition parties fought the campaign as
a solid alliance instead of carrying a
private war into many of the electorates
they might have picked up a few seats
from “Labor.” As it is, they will still
have to rely on the support of the Inde-
pendents.
Pleading the necessity for an adjourn-
ment of the N. S. Wales Assembly on
Tuesday of last week McGirr said that
“members had been under a great strain
voting for the Legislative Council
vacancy.” With McGirr and his team
the strain is not so much in the actual
voting as in worrying whether Room 32
will “allege” that they voted against the
ticket.
The caucus meeting at which McGirr
withdrew his resignation, and resolutions
expressing confidence in both him and
the executive were passed, and plans laid
for a conference “to find ways and means
of winning the elections” was held behind
locked doors. This is usual. What was
not usual was that the blinds were drawn.
Those who believe in omens are watching
the postman for invitations to the wake
of the McGirr Government.
While N. S. Wales “Labor” was talking
about a meeting between its two contend-
ing wings with a view to arranging a
little plastic-surgery which would enable
them to present the outward appearance
of a united front at the State elections
which cannot be, postponed much longer,
two of McGirr’s fellow “Labor” Premiers
pushed on with election plans. Hanlon
announced April 29 as Queensland’s
polling-day, and in Hobart Cosgrove, to
whom Governor Binney had granted a
dissolution after he had satisfied himself
of Opposition-leader Townley’s inability
to form a Government, was hesitating be-
tween that date and a week earlier or
later.
Hanlon had two worries added to his
list at the end of last week. The Country-
party candidate for Townsville withdrew
from the contest, leaving the field to
the Liberal in the only seat in which the
two parties had previously failed to reach
agreement. On the same day Aikens,
Independent “Labor” member for Mung-
dingburra, announced that his North
Queensland Labor party would contest
eight northern seats. If this threat is
carried out the first-past-the-post system
brought back by “Labor” as a tactical
move against the Liberal and Country
parties may boomerang on its originators.
Roosevelt’s misconceptions on British
“imperialism” are notorious; it now
seems they were shared by some of his
advisers. Thus Admiral Leahy, comment-
ing on discussions towards the end of the
war on the future of Jap.-occupied
territory:
The exact British intentions were not
known, but past experience indicated that
if they did get control of some Dutch
territory it might be difficult to pry them
loose.
Leahy could not have studied the history
of the Dutch East Indies very closely.
Early in the last century Napoleon made
an attempt to seize Java. The French
were driven out by the British, and Stam-
ford Raffles administered the Dutch
colonies until the end of the war. Within
12 months of Waterloo they were re-
turned to Holland. The Admiral also
makes the statement:
It was General MacArthur’s contention
that the British should not be allowed to
assume control of any territory recaptured
from the Japanese, and I suspected that the
Australians, in this matter, were in
complete agreement with MacArthur.
MacArthur is entitled to his own opinions,
but if there is no foundation for what
Leahy “suspected” it is up to Dr. Evatt
to refute the statement at once.
On Thursday while the Governor-
General was putting his name to
the Crimes Act proclamation made
necessary by a Communist con-
spiracy to hamper work on the
Brisbane waterfront, 2000 men were flock-
ing to the Sydney wharves to put down
their names for membership of the Water-
siders’ Federation. In this day of “full
employment” nothing exposes the hollow-
ness of the Communists’ claims so much
as the eagerness of men to change their
present occupation for that of the
wharfies, who, next to the miners, are the
spoilt darlings of the Australian industrial
scene.
Voters will do well to remember
Chifley’s statement that the issue at the
Federal election, as in New Zealand and
Britain, was Socialism versus Capitalism.
It means that if a double-dissolution
brings about another election, no matter
what red herrings “Labor” may produce
the real question will be whether or not
this country is to become a Socialist State.
When Conservative candidates in
Britain’s general election campaign
attacked the high cost of socialised “free”
medicine they knew only half the story.
Aneurin Sevan’s expensive baby had been
allotted £324 million in the Budget—which
seemed a tidy sum for pills, potions and
potted health. Now Bevan is about to ask
for another £B5 million, the amount by
which his guess fell short of reality. These
Socialist experimenters would make a
great fist of guessing the length of a piece
of string or the number of bubbles in a
medicine bottle.
While Menzies was making his Crimes
Act announcement last Thursday Ward’s
voice was the only one .raised in protest.
He is at least consistent; he stood aside
from the Chifley Government’s moves
against the Communists last August. If
other members of the Opposition come
out against the present Government’s
measures they will have to eat a good
many pages of “Hansard,” July to Sep-
tember, 1949, vintage.
Medieval monarchs hard up for ready
cash had a habit of “clipping” the coin-
age, Our Indonesian neighbors, similarly
placed, have devised a modern variation
of this method of raising the wind ; they
have chopped all bank-balances and
bank-notes in halves—the former by book-
entry, the latter by means of scissors.
razor-blade or other cutting instrument.
It is not expropriation, merely a forced
loan. That, too, is what medieval
monarchs used to tell the citizens whom
they forced to disgorge their gold.
Personalities in the Reps.:
Mr. Mullens (“Labor” member for
Gellibrand, Vic.): “I am always suspicious
of men whose names begin with Reginald,
Percy, and so on.”
Mr. Townley (Liberal, member for
Denison, Tas.): “What about Augustus?”
Mr. Mullens: “Well, what about it?
Augustus is only his second name. Arthur
is his first name.”
A. A. Calwell may have been satisfied
with the rejoinder, but Reginald Pollard
will from now on be reading suspicion
into every glance his new colleague from
Gellibrand throws his way. So will
Senator Percy Clarey.
Dr. Bunting, of the British Overseas
Food Corporation, tips a world popula-
tion of 3000 million by a.d. 2000, and
doubts whether it can be fed unless the
red-earth regions of East and Central
Africa are developed. His corporation
recently had a go at development there,
and dropped £23 million in producing a
peanut.
On the word of its president, Mr. Monk
—“Australian workers will not accept
without protest the decision by the court”
—the A.C.T.U. is evidently dabbling with
the idea of calling a one-day strike
throughout the Commonwealth because
the Arbitration Court refused a £2 interim
increase in the basic wage while dealing
with the application to make it £lO a
week. This sort of thing leaves the court
unmoved, maddens those it doesn’t
amuse, and earns for the A.C.T.U. the
contempt of intelligent people—of whom
there are still plenty among unionists.
The McGirr Minister for Transport is
toying with a notion to ban heavy trucks
from roads at weekends on the assump-
tion that it would suit “pleasure”
motorists. The fact is that these
weekend drivers, half of whom don’t
know or don’t bother about the road
rules, are the menace, not the lorry-
drivers. And Mr. O’Sullivan ought to pay
attention to the pubs outside the city
from which on Sunday afternoons streams
of semi-drunk drivers take the road for
home —or the cemetery. It simply
wouldn’t occur to O’Sullivan that
thousands would go short of fresh food
every Monday if it weren’t for trucks
running at weekends.
With the laudable aim of breaking down
any cultural isolation which may exist
along with occupational isolation in the
coalfields, the Combined Colliery Pro-
prietors’ Association has begun publica-
tion of a monthly magazine “The Coal
Miner,” issued free to coalfields families.
Its first issue promises well for its pur-
pose, which iS to improve relationship
and understanding between all engaged
in the industry by giving intimate news,
personal and technical, of the industry
from inside, and from ojther countries as
well as the Australian fields. It follows
the lead set by the B.H.P. with its monthly
domestic magazine.
It cost an Adelaide jeweller £2300 to
fall for the ancient “gold brick” con-
fidence trick the other day. It will cost
N. S. Walers a lot more if they fall
for the McGirr gold bricks in the forth-
coming State election.
There is a row on between N.S.W.
Minister for Lands Sheahan and the
Graziers’ Association over allotments of
parts of travelling stock-routes and re-
serves to soldier-settlers. There is a lot
of wasteland in the t.s.rs. When they
were created years ago there was a need
for them, because inland N.S.W. was full
of travelling sheep and drovers. Today
a flock of more than 500 sheep travelling
a long distance on the hoof is a rare sight,
and the old-time drover is rarer still be-
cause there isn’t work for him. The
double-decker motor-truck has
th ® , drover » and the result is L? P l aced
of the areas designated t.srs are r-i Uch
than rabbit- and wee^nursen^
matter of*
Governments and/or tigers. M S“"
Argus columnist Clive Turnbull „° Ur ? e
subject of the Hallstrom “tiger” hunt^ 6
I should like to think that the Tasmani
Government, which has an 5
of enlightenment in other matters 1 S
SLW? to these fc "»* —*• 5S
Naturalist David Fleay, interviewed and
quoted in the same issue of the “Argus?
Because of the £1 scalp bonus offered hv ’
the Tasmanian Government, which n
gar the animal as a sheep-killer the
extinct!” 6 ' ° r Tasmanian l, g er > was almost
A Labor Senator named Large told
the Senate that he was urging the “Labor"
party to “introduce a penal measure pro
viding that, where a lie is printed and
there is no retraction, the newspaper con
cerned should be mulcted to the extent
of a penny for every copy issued con
taming that lie.” That should put an end
to newspapers reporting Parliamentary
debates and statements by politicians.
According to Coal Board evidence
before the Coal Industry Tribunal, p ro .
duction loss through Miners’ Federation
disputes up to March 11 this year was
246,522 tons, and the exports to other
States were over 13,000 tons a week short
of the bare inter-State requirements. The
hit-and-run stoppages on the coalfields
are just as much a part of the Communist
plan of sabotaging production as the
“rolling strikes” on the waterfront.
A claim by the Netherlands Informa-
tion Bureau that Holland heads the list
of beer-exporting nations perhaps explains
the wharfies’ dislike of the Dutch. Fancy
a country that can’t drink all the beer it
produces!
The U.S.S.R. has just repeated a super-
lative device for promoting the welfare
of the worker, which it has used more
than once with greqt effect. The value
of the rouble is suddenly appreciate)!-
this time on the pretext of placing it on
a gold basis. It is then announced that
roubles are worth more. Wages are cut
to rpeet the situation ; so are prices-
to some extent. All the street radios
boom that there will now be a great im-
provement in the standard of living. And
then they announce, just as suddenly, that
there will be a new issue of currency and
that all old roubles will be taken over
compulsorily at a discount equal to the
difference between the purchasing-power
of the old and new currency. The ulti-
mate results are excellent —for the Krem-
lin Treasury.
To assist in bridging the gap between
production and demand 1,000,000 tons oi
coal will be imported during the coming
year. Forty years ago this qpuntr;.
exported more than twice that quafltit)
annually. That was before control ottne
mines passed into the hands of the Ke
wreckers. _


PERSONAL ITEMS
Cnme old New Guinea history walked
Bulletin in the slight, still-
“ It R Arm St. late of “.The Service/
TJd Resident Magistrate in a list of
a . n :- n , ranging from Lakeramu gold-
west of Moresby to Buna on the
nnrfh-east* coast Back in 1883, when
the Germans were nosing tentatively at
he Territory, and all most Australians
knew of it was that it existed, Melbourne
“Argus ” with Government approval,
sponsored an exploratory expedition
Captain Armit, L.P.B.’s father, led it, and
was probably the first man to walk the
Kokoda Trail. He left his name on a
range back from the Gulf of Papua, and
innumerable blaze-marks on trees, one
of which L.P.B. uncovered when clearing
his Sogeri rubber-plantation behind
Moresby. In the service since 1902,
L. was still there when the Rabaul
business foreshadowed evacuation. He
left in 1942, was back after the cease-fiie
to see what was left of his plantation,
and aims to return to his rubber-trees
in a few months. There is no more
vigorous believer in New Guinea’s future.
So far as can be discovered not once
during the current excitement in the Press
about the gold doings at Wedderburn
(Vic.) has anybody remembered that the
little town on the end of its spur railway
from Wedderburn Junction once bought
its firewood from Albert Jacka and his
brothers. Albert became a national hero
as the first Australian V.C. in World War
I, having disposed of seven Turks single-
handed in a furious rifle and bayonet
tussle at Courtney’s Post, on Gallipoli,
in 1915. He went to the war as a
private, returned as Captain Jacka, V.C.,
M. and bar, made a success of business
in Melbourne and was Mayor of fashion-
able St. Kilda before he died in 1932.
The Most Reverend Friar Emanuel
Suarez, 0.P., visiting Melbourne, is
distinctive in that he holds a position in
one of the longest lines of succession in
history—he is the 79th successor to St.
Dominic, founder of the Dominican
Order of Friar Preachers. The suc-
cessor is the first head of the order to
visit Australia, although the first friars
arrived in this country in 1898. A
canon lawyer of European reputation, he
was formerly professor of canon and
civil law at the Pontifical University. A
Spaniard, he is visiting Australian priories
m the course of a world tour.
A. H.'Chisholm farewells a colleague;
Bird-artist Neville W. Cayley, passed on at
go , t f u wa y to a flying start in his life-work,
that Neville Cayley whose paintings of
( aacKs ,-?, n e w mg, kookaburras in conclave,
stiu adorn many Australian walls, he was
Rk£rTJe e^\ rd ‘ ha V nted re ri°n of the Clarence
h ~ aTld thus, with the influence of
vmioi Cr S dl y a ?d environment functioning
he could scarcely escape the impulse
o follow in father’s footsteps. The brush was
wasn't ,fmii ng tl ter r ha , nd 9 mt e early, but it
11 the famil y migrated to Sydney,
a definitp 3ls * bat Panting of birds became
menr wit occu P atl on; and even then develop-
edfrom 5 ® om e w h a t sl °w, largely because the
and heretiraf buS , h became attached to a new
of“the s! ? 1 and official
or me Surf Bathers Association of N.S.W
nmvint°t b ?F am . e , clear that the son was im-
hc acmiinvt v*® tb . er ' A better field-worker,
bLad?r i£ kn ° wl t d ? e that gave him a much
far sm a -r d lm P arte d to his drawings
cver afhf PV pH ICn x C Va ! u ® than the elder artist
had Nevertheless, and although he
iMrn thaf il practically t 9 himself, he was to
U painting is apt to be much
or mtm,fiii e t u an .’_ sa y> specialised surgery
at Es f t n p r ? ; hlcl ? 1S J wh y he had to turn
and 0 colored calendars, Christmas cards,
er P S ar hS IC s knacks - Stdl > those little
th bad their uses, if only in the
SvdnovV h a ff°rded m the painting of
•° cqLly e SSvr™r e ' S “
f a ß n tV |inHc Wblles th s birdman produced a few
man'shower and seasca P es . and ran one-
useful work wac Vari u US Clties - But his most
volume of k nntP ‘S/i? 00 o- pi i ocluction - His first
1931 and h i®’ at Blrd Is That ? born in
Eented P^ CatCd - to bis father ’s memory,
color and cfmr, of . Australian bird in
compilation su P ported the illustrations with a
a volume devoted f ad ,u the P lcasure of handling
with all id cn ® d * be charming fairy wren,
J? all 14 species set among flowers.
mechums reg^ nn Su f cc ? ses . three other
brought the riff f CO u Sta . nt experimenting he
cSsTo rJ®;® 3 *® business of Painting birds’
by sheer S n nev ? r before achieved, and
evolved into d g P~ plus native ability—he
illustrating tO wL P if mter , of msects (copiously
K L Wa i® rhouse s What Butterfly Is
color' dmwffie°fnr n T mma i!f (“Paying all me
of Australiaf f °Th J r ° u Bhton ■= , red AnimaL
assignment*r e ® g Paintings were mainly
whom K, ° r and Robertson, to
the naturalist-artist had lung
on a hie K ed , and , or w hom he was engaged
Smpletfon b ° ok project did a °t rclch
Ability to think quicker than he can
write and to write quicker than anybody
in the public service pretty well sums
up George Brown, retired last week after
16 years as Victorian Secretary for Mines
—his Short Cuts to Shorthand is a Pitman
textbook. Formerly a Government
shorthand-writer, he once won a speed
certificate by writing 250 words per
minute, and today he’s not much slower.
Emerging in Ballarat in 1884, he joined
the Victorian Railways in 1901 as junior-
clerk, lifted himself to secretary of the
Parliamentary Standing Committee on
Railways by 1924, and, as well as his late
mining job, held down the secretaryship
of the State Coal Committee. His rail-
way experience made him a monty for
the Victorian Emergency Service job of
co-ordinating A.R.P. in Melbourne in
1942 ; two years earlier he made as good
a fist of satisfying the urgent need of
salvage. R. R. Neal, formerly of the
Lands Department, takes over.
Reached 60, without having seen a
motor-car, a tram, a train, the sea or any
of the million commonplaces of every-
day life, John Bartley, because, since he
was four, he has been blind. Now secre-
tary of the Association of Blind Citizens,
he was born in the Cobar (N.S.W.) cop-
per country. Withal, as bright as they
come, he called to tell The Bulletin
of his club’s drive for new members, and
any charitable citizen of a worthy deposi-
tory for his spare cash. In a disastrous
Sydney fire in 1948 the association lost
most of its Braille books— David Copper-
field runs to 10 volumes —and without
much cash their replacement is slow. All
Australian Braille publications are printed
at the National Institute for the Blind in
London, where, in the blitz, German
bombs found the special zinc plates.
Bartley’s aim is an Australian printing
centre for textbooks for blind students,
as well as Australian classics, of which
two of Ethel Turner’s and Robbery Under
Arms are the only Braille representatives.
Now rating 185 members, the association
last week held its 1000th meeting.
Off on a 250,000-mile world walkabout
from one pub to another, Leslie M.
Perrott, Melbourne hotel architect of
note and designer of the Australia,
Alexander and Chevron Hotels. Mel-
bourne expects in 1956 a flood of Olympic
fans and sportsmen looking for accommo-
dation in a city which at present has a
bare 4000 rooms, only 500 of them with
bathrooms, Perrott will stay at the most
modern hotels of Argentina, Brazil, New
York, South Africa, England and Sweden,
while his son, who has been a student
of the subject in Finland and Sweden,
will leave England for Italy on the same
project. Thus they will get firsthand
acquaintance with the sort of accommoda-
tion most Olympians are used to. Perrott
was the winner of the recent competition
for the new Western Market.
Herewith Mcßeath’s version of John
Stuart, one of Melbourne’s best-known
radio voices—the voice which for the past
MIKEMAN.
18 years has worried 3DB early-moming
listeners with time signals, cheered house-
wives with rising-prices information and
brought joy to holiday-makers with wet-
weather forecasts; and also conducts a
mothers’ session with sympathy, a
children’: session with love, a flappers’
session with r notion and a highbrow quiz
with dignity. :>ydney-born, Stuart started
out a journtihst, turned theatrical, toured
the country with Bailey and Grant, ran
his own show and finished up with
J.C.W.
Called in to shake the collective hand
of The Bulletin, and trapped by Heth,
Fred Gerhard, for the past 16 years chief
officer of Westralia’s fire-brigades, which
makes him just about the senior fire-
scotcher in Australia. In the game 43
years, he rode the gold fever West from
Waukaringa (S.A.) with his father in 1897,
was a digger in Boulder in 1907, and
when the boom went out of the gold-
boom round about that time, and mines
started to go up in insurance smoke, he
exchanged pick for fireman’s axe. Riding
in those days horse-drawn steam-engines,
he now controls over 200 men in 18
stations, plus volunteers in 30 country
stations, and a fleet of red monsters whose
FIREMAN.
pumps can deliver a ton of water every
six seconds. His biggest fire started in the
war, when a Fremantle wharfie found a
bag he was sitting on alight, and naturally
walked to the ship’s side and dropped it
in the water. Unfortunately submarines
based there had been pouring oil on those
waters, and in minutes six acres of harbor
were blazing wildly, banking up under
wharves and pouring a black pall up-
Swan. It took Gerhard’s men most of
the afternoon to control the fire, and
seven days to put it out. Once in Gerald-
ton Gerhard ran the “Express” while its
editor was electioneering. This was the
paper on which Andree Hayward (“T. the
R. then newly-landed from Oxford
and elsewhere, got his start in Australian
journalism—by writing a bright bit of
verse on a local cricket-match.
Awarded the Manson Medal of the
Royal Society of Tropical Medicine (the
world’s highest in its field), Neil Hamil-
ton Fairley is one of a crop of brilliant
Victorians who won their Royal Society
Fellowships in the middle of 1942. From
Melbourne ’Varsity, then Cambridge,
where he landed a doctorate in tropical
medicine, he shifted in War I to Egypt,
where he studied tropical diseases, some
of the dreadest of their kind, on the
banks of the Nile. Then he came to the
Walter and Eliza Hall Institute in Mel-
bourne When the late dUst-up landed
troops among the malaria, scrub-typhus
and other unpleasant inhabitants of
northern islands, he shifted up there,
brigadier. Director of Medicine at
S. headquarters, and chairman of
the committee which advised Mac-
Arthur on how to combat his second-
worst enemy. It was this anti-malarial
work which brought him his latest high
award. He's a Harley-street man now.
“C.Q.”; In Sydney to make his
home in Australia, film-star Victor
McLaglen’s brother Leo. Their Christian
names must have been selected by parents
with prophetic vision. Leo stands over
6ft., weighs 16st. and on his own show-
ing is as tough as his brother, though he
deprecatingly asserts that war injuries sus-
tained in both world shindies have re-
duced his fitness 100 p.c. and turned him
into an old crock. The old crock laid
a reporter on his back by ju-jitsu which
was taught him by Prince Shimara,
of Nippon, and which landed him in the
world-championship class in 1906. Leo
claims to have taught Captain Jacka, V.C.,
how to handle rifle and bayonet, and to
rate the title in Africa of the Great
White Witchdoctor, who can bring a man
back to life as well as kill him. This is
presumably a reference to the unorthodox
theories on resuscitation which he holds
and which he is prepared to pass on to
Australian life-saving associations.
This year’s Crouch £lOO memorial
prize at the Ballarat Art Gallery went
again to a Melbourne artist, Phyl Water-
house, at present studying in England,
for an oil entitled “Country Town,” a
straightforward piece of painting. The
Melbourne National Gallery bought her
entry for the competition last year. Len
Annois, another Melbourne artist, took
home the Minnie Crouch £5O prize for
a watercolor.
Shunting-off from managing Westralia’s
privately - owned Midland Railway
burly, jovial D. W. Brisbane is a
Westralian who gained his engineer-
ing know-how in the State Public
Works Department. Taking it to
Malaya, he was engaged by the
British Government on public works
there and through the Far East, but re-
turned to the West when Hitler blew up,
and joined the R.A.N. as engineer-officer.
When the Jap threat led to big troop con-
centrations in the West, D.W. was
released to manage the Midland railway,
on which he arranged many heavy de-
fence movements. His spare-time interest
is an older form of locomotion—sailing,
in which sphere he was one-time com-
modore of the Royal Freshwater Bay
(Perth) Yacht Club. J. S. Dowson, an-
other Westralian, who was also in the
East, with the Royal Indian Engineers in
Irak and Assam in the late war, steps to
the footplate. v
Recently celebrated his 45th year with
the Australian theatre, Ben Fuller, at 74,
is still to be seen at first-nights and on
almost every other night at one or other
of his theatres; recently he drove his car
between his Melbourne and Sydney
circuits to attend an opening. Beginning
in vaudeville —he started on Brighton
(Eng.) sands —he remains attached to that
medium, and at present Melbourne has
'three variety shows running. His more
cultural enterprises still go on, however,
and the Princess in Spring-street, which
had a hoodoo on it after Federici as
Mephistopheles died during his passage to
the infernal regions, has had a succession
of seasons of grand opera, ballet and
serious drama which have restored its
prestige. Ben himself sang in grand-opera
choruses at Covent Garden in his young
days, and has ventured into that expen-
sive field since to the extent of losing
£30,000 at the Palace, though with the
satisfaction of having staged Wagner with
stars like Florence Austral on the payroll.
Flaving made and lost several fortunes—
he once owned 14 leading Australian
theatres, and about half the cinemas of
New Zealand —he can still claim to be an
entrepreneur of substance.
“King’s Pawn”: The N.S.W. Chess
Association took what seems to be an
extraordinary action in appointing 14-
year-old Jack Bailey to the committee of
recent juniors which, with the help of
senior officials, runs the schools competi-
tions, and runs them well. The others
are Will Levick, Australian Boy Chess
Champion, J. V. Kellner, N.S.W. Junior
Champion, and Henry Bauer, who was
runner-up in big junior events; they are
18-years-old now but keen on maintaining
the schools chess through which they
graduated. Young Jack earned his recog-
nition by the eagerness with which he
helped the committee last year. The
bright lad graduated to high school when
only 11 and is a first-class scholar; in
chess he has long been able to beat his
professor father, who introduced him to
the game; in the last comps, though
eligible to play in the under-14 group, he
selected the under-16 —and won. He
also scored the only win in a simultane-
ous chess display given by one of the
champions.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, Sister Marie Alberta de Sion,
of the Notre Dame de Sion Convent, Box Hill,
one of the oldest of her order. Fifty-seven
years a nun, she taught languages and music
in De Sion convents.
At Chelsea (Vic.), at 58, Arthur William
Dakin, a member of Shackleton’s relief ex-
pedition to the Antarctic in 1917, who received
the King’s special Snow ribbon. After serving
in naval transport in War I, he helped to
assemble the Red Cliffs pumping plant, later
joining the first Mildura Irrigation Trust as
engineer in charge of Nichol’s Point.
In Adelaide, at 68, Clarence McArthur, who
was as distinguished in his presidency of
Adelaide’s ’Change as by the fact that for the
33 years he had been a member he never
appeared in the building without his lapel
florally decorated. For about the same time an
executive of the S.A. Football League (Stage
selector for 26 years), he had an unusual
beginning—bom and lived his childhood in a
lighthouse, with his father keeper. Starting
his journey to the presidency from a junior m
a mining office, he retired from both ’Change
and football in 1948.
At 81, in Brisbane, T. H. Bishop, one of the
State’s first motormen. Among “firsts claimed
were the first motor-car driven m W. Queens-
land, in 1901, and, after founding Barnes Auto
in Brisbane in the early ’twenties, installation of
the State’s first petrol-pump. Before trans-
ferring his allegiance to petrol he managed
Cobb & Co. in Charleville.
In Auckland (M.L.), at. 65, Harry Clifford
Hills Inspector in the Fijian Native Constab
ulary at Levuka in September, 1917, be received
information of white men in a launch near
Wakaya Island. Setting out with another officer
and a few native police, he overhauled the
launch, lowered a lifeboat with his
native police, pulled over and called on the
leader to surrender. Von Luckner compile
without fuss, and with his five companions was
taken prisoner.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES LNKS"
“Becks”: I find myself in agreement
with the Melbourne Showman on the
false humanity and the sentimentality of
the film “Anna Lucasta,” but my mam
interest during the screening was trying
to decide the racial origin of the Lucasta
family and why the playwright chose that
surname for them. I am still undecided
whether Joe was meant to be a Swede
or a Slav; in neither case would he be
likely to have Lucasta as a patronymic.
The name was coined by Richard Love-
lace as a poetic nickname for
Sacheverall, to whom he addressed several
of his lyrics. It was really a Latin pun:
lux casta meaning chaste Lucy. No, it
doesn’t seem to fit Joe, much less Anna.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Lud Mayor Disney, of
Melbourne, has become a matrimonial
go-between allee samee they have in
China. He is the recipient of a request
in broken English from a pretty blonde
Austrian girl in England, who, stimulated
by the success of a previous applicant, has
asked the civic head to find her a hus-
band, If Mr. Disney likes that sort of
thing it is O.K. with me, but the ques-
tion arises whether one of these days
some lud mayor or other mightn’t get
sued for false pretences or something. In
China the go-between accepts respon-
sibility for consequences. If the husband
finds, when the first romantic transports
are over, that he has been given a dud
and that really after all she isn’t Miss
Right, he can recover damages from the
instigator of the union, and the wife also
has some rights in this direction, though
not so extensive as her male partner.
* * * *
“Sackville St.”: A Sydney emporium
seems to have taken pity on shopping
caddies. At the moment, provided his
neck will stretch over his armful of
parcels, a husband may while away the
hours of waiting by looking at some-
thing interesting. Interspersed, of course,
with various uninteresting rags the
windows are dressed with examples of
aboriginal arts and handicrafts. There
are cleverly-carved spears, war-clubs,
boomerangs, intricately-woven bark
carrying-bags, shields painted in strange
designs, totems representing various
ahimals, samples of primitive aboriginal
art, paddles and burial mats. Spaced
throughout the display are notes describ-
ing rituals and customs. Altogether, a
fine exhibition, and one obviously
appreciated. But one point stands out;
all the exhibits were borrowed from the
Sydney Museum; for years they have
been, with thousands of other exhibits,
on view to anybody interested enough to
walk about 300 yards from that shop.
It was a cunning window-dresser who
woke up to the fact that few Sydney-
siders bother to go to their own museum.
* * ♦ *
“Findy”: I suppose I’ve been on tenter-
hooks as often as most people, but until
last week I had not the slightest idea
what a tenterhook was. For the benefit
of others similarly ignorant, I submit the
result of my investigations. M. H. Ellis,
in the course of his article on the
Mitchell Library (B. 22/3/’5O) quoted
from the diary of an early resident of
Norfolk Island who wrote of “guns
loaded to the muzzles with bullets, bits
of iron, tenpenny nails and tenter hooks.”
As I had never heard of the italicised
articles being used for any other purpose
than the temporary and uneasy support
of persons in a sthte of extreme anxiety, I
turned to my dictionary, to find that a
“tenter” is a frame for stretching cloth ;
the cloth being suspended from the frame
by tenterhooks. So there it is, but per-
haps M.H.E. can explain why the things
were so plentiful on Norfolk Island that
they were used as improvised grapeshot.
♦ * * •
“Uco”: Sorry to see that Federal
Cabinet has yielded to ill-informed
opinion and changed the name of the
Manus base from Seeadler to Tarangau.
“Put it down , son—it looks like a death-adder to me.”
The official reason given is that the Gov-
eminent “wished to avoid any likelihood
Q f Australian naval traditions being
jinked with the German imperialism of
pre .World War One.” The German
p ossess i ons i n that part of the world
were conquered by Australian arms, so it
i s difficult to see how our naval tradi-
tions cou id suffer by the retention of the
o jd name; surely the opposite would be
m ore likely. British naval authorities,
sticklers for tradition, have never worried
muc } l on this score. The Fighting
TSmdraire, one of the most famous of
g r jti s h ships, was originally a unit of the
F renc h Navy. When she was captured
an£ j a dded to Nelson’s fleet there was no
q Ues tion of changing her name ; she took
j, er pj ace w ith the home-grown ships as
a living symbol of Britain’s naval
superiority. During the 1870’s a small
i ro nclad Temdraire was commissioned,
am j j ust before Hitler’s war the name
was chosen for one of the four Lion-class
40,000-ton battleships, construction of
was a bandoned in 1940.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A case which, according to the
lawyers, hasn’t had its like for 30 years
was heard the other day before the Third
civil Court in Melbourne. It was a case
c f “pedestrian versus horse-and-cart,” the
claimant, a woman, demanding £5OOO
damages for an injured ankle sustained
w h en s he was run down by a bread-cart,
she was awarded £llOO on the ground
t h a t she was once a ballroom dancer and
at 55 WO uld have still liked to go on
dancing .because “it keeps one young
an d happy.”
* * . * *.
“Shot”: That device for boiling the
billy on oil-burning locomotives (B,
8/3/’5O) recalls the “choofers” used by
troops in the islands during the last
steush. Eighty or a hundred octane
petrol was made to flow by gravitation
from an oxygen-tank or other suitable
container tied to a handy tree. One-
eighth inch piping conveyed the fuel
through a coil to a narrow jet to which
a match was applied—from a safe
distance The flame heated the surround-
ing coil and the petrol became vaporised
so that it burned at the jet with a “choof-
choof” noise—hence the name. In
eight to 10 minutes the average “choofer”
would boil a kerosene-tin full of clothes;
the supper-time brew was a matter of
moments only.
*■*.**
“K.R.”: “F.S.’s” clipping from Mel-
bourne “Herald” (B. 22/3/’5O) could
almost have been from a current issue;
I was surprised to find it had appeared
in 1850. Here is another extract which
could be present-day comment:
How simple were the lives of the
citizens of Paris in the 16th century. This
simplicity of habits and thought perhaps
was the cause of the greatness of this
primitive citizen class —for they were great,
free and noble, more so perhaps than the
citizens of our time.... And then the
masters were not at the mercies of their
workmen, and did not yield, as they do
. now, to all their vagaries.
It is from the pen of Balzac, in a book
published in 1842.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: Visual education and
pillow-microphones (B. 8/ 3 / ’50)? I once
went through a course in which visual
training was tried out. Slides were pro-
jected on a screen and the students took
turns in reading the captions. After the
third session I found I could not recall
half the things I should have known.
Neither could any of the other chaps.
The next day our regular lecturer was
sick; an understrapper showed a film on
the same lines, with no reading of
captions. After the screening every man
in the class could recall the various points
made. Why? My guess is: Because the
mind wasn’t at ease in the former method ;
it was listening to the agony of each
nervous reader and wondering “How
will I get on with mine?” As for
Huxley’s pillow-mikes, right method or
wrong, I’m convinced they would make
anybody learn anything. Until The
Bully’s 70th-birthday issue I had seen
The Man from Snowy River in print
once only, yet I can recite (perhaps I
should say sing) the first seven stanzas
without a pause—and believe me, I did
not try to learn them. I’ve never read
the poem about Barbara Frichy (spell-
ing phonetic), yet I could sing-song the
verses right up to “And ever its tom folds
rose and fell on the loyal wind that loved
it well.” How did I learn ’em? Be-
cause’ my infernal young brother was the
best poetry-learner in his class, and his
method was to chant to the world at large
while I was trying to go to sleep in the
next bed.
* • ♦ *
“Golden Mile”: Those two lads,
window-shopping with a brick (B.
22/2/’5O), recall one evening in June,
1902, the scene Piesse-street, Boulder
(W.A.). Julian Cassas, ex-cycling cham-
pion of the West, ran the Alhambra Cafe,
selling a thousand meals a day. Next
door Abrahams sported the three balls,
but did most business as a goldbuyer,
with a sideline in jewellery. Show item
of Abrahams’s window was a solitaire
diamond ring, priced 90 guineas. Across
the street the Shamrock, brilliantly lit,
literally roared. Emerging from Julian’s,
it was the custom for diners, maybe 50
in a bunch, to admire the diamond, using
the while toothpicks gratuitously supplied.
This particular night a man dressed as a
miner emerged from the Shamrock,
crossed the street, carrying a miner’s crib
bag. Arrived in front of Abrahams’s this
man calmly plunked his crib bag through
the plateglass, reached in, lifted the soli-
taire from its velvet bed, then scampered
round the near-by comer. That’s all;
except that the crib bag was found to
contain half a brick.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”; Philadelphia, mentioned
as the place where early women doctors
acquired their degrees (B. 8/3/’5O), was
also the place which provided the first
degrees in dentistry known in Australia.
Not until a fight to raise the status of
the toothpuller had been carried on for
years was a chair of dentistry established
in Sydney; legislation marched with it,
turning what had been a mere occupa-
tion into a profession. Registration with
the Dental Board was given automatically
to dentists in practice, but a provision for
the removal from the register of men
who bungled their work gradually wiped
out the duffers. A curiosity of the pre-
Dental Board days, when anyone who
liked could have a go, was the appeal
dentistry seemed to have for plumbers.
At least three of the best-known Sydney
toothpullers had graduated through
plumbing; as their names are still well-
known their grandsons must be carrying
on the tradition.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Slang words do drop
into disuse (B. 15/3/’50); for instance, I
can’t remember when I last heard any-
thing praised as “bonzer,” “bosker” or
“bonster.” But the verb “to job” is
still in use around this eastern portion
of N.S.W. There are many rivalling
words, of course ; a bloke can be jobbed,
floored, flopped, fitted, dropped, propped,
smacked, sloshed or thumped, as well as
suffer from the effects of most of “Pip
Tok’s” synonyms. And slang words are
not the only ones that become outdated.
Recently I remarked to a nephew that I
had passed a pantechnicon down the
road. His utter bewilderment amazed
me. Since then I’ve tried the word on
perhaps a dozen youngsters from the age
of 12 to 25; not one had heard of it
Now, why should a useful word like
that go out of use? , Pantechnicon is a
darned sight easier to get your tongue
around than “furniture removalist’s van.”
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Newspaper-throwers so far
mentioned were amateurs in comparison
with a mailman I knew on the N.S.W.
South Coast. Roadside letter-boxes were
mostly kerosene-tins, linseed-oil drums or
soap-boxes nailed to a fence-post or set
on top of a stump. A white stone on top
of one of the boxes meant that there was
mail to pick up, but if there was no white
stone the mailman threw the bundle of
letters or papers without leaving the mail-
car, and he rarely missed. These roadside
.boxes had one disadvantage. Mail from
our box —we lived half a mile back from
the road—was often missing. We blamed
swagmen until we set to watch for the
culprit, and one day saw a magpie swoop
down from a tree, pick up a letter and
fly off to its nest. !We searched that nest
and found a dozen letters. We might as
well have saved our time; they were all
bills.
* * * *
“En B.”; Reading the full-color adver-
tisements in an American paper, it seems
that the first thing anyone wants in food
is, according to the advertisers, appear-
ance. Nutrition came third in the list,
and last. Perhaps that attitude may
account for the outlook of an American
lady, visiting this country, who announced
that an electric tin-opener was an abso-
lute necessity in her kitchen.
$ $ * * ,
“Blue P.”: Those planning a holiday in
the vicinity of Sydney during the Easter
break must have been dashed by the
news that the Sydney R.A.S. has taken
out a rain-insurance policy for £50,000
to cover its Easter Show. The show rages
for 12 days from April 1, and the insur-
ance is for each and every day and night,
Sundays excepted. The R.A.S. had good
reason for it; since January the whole
eastern half of the continent has been
drenched by raiins and swamped by floods,
and the end of it was not in sight when
this was written. Even the so-called
“dead heart” is partly under water, and
there’s hardly a stream between Lome
and Cape York, Oodnadatta and Ballma,
that isn’t running a banker. A lot or
theories have been advanced to explain
the unusual wet season—a strong Labor
supporter qf my acquaintance blames me
Menzies Government—and toe awf
thought occurred to me the other mg
that maybe we are about to change fro
a dry to a wet country. If you want jo
know why the thought was a J ful T y
examine the next Gippdander or Tas-
manian you meet; they actua ly
in work.
DANGEROUS JIM McGAG.
“N. S. Wales Premier, Mr. James McGirr, resigned
because the State A.L.P. executive refused endorse-
ment to four members of his caucus, then withdrew
his resignation, although no satisfaction was offered
him, and now is slated to confer with the executive
on winning the coming State election.”
Since women were wearing farthingales
Did ever you hear the like.
The terrible times in New South Wales
When the Premier went on strike?
He was only a common old working man
Called Dangerous Jim McGag,
But as soon as the fight with the Boss began
He gallantly skied the rag.
The Union Bosses were in their lair,
Trades-Hall, Room Thirty-two:
“There’s four of our men we cannot bear,
So what are we going to do?”
“Let’s not go into the right and wrong
Or say what it’s all about,
But when the elections come along
We’ll silently lock them out.”
When news got round of the members’ fates
Jim popped like a pager bag:
“You can’t do that to my dear old mates,”
Said Dangerous Jim McGag:
“I’m tired of shaking the angry fist
Or arguing of the toss,
So, being a good trade-unionist,
I’m striking against the Boss!”
The caucus dropped a crocodile tear
When Dangerous Jim resigned,
But as days went by it became more clear
That nobody seemed to mind.
The bosses, like all the employer-mob,
Said never a kindly word,
And as most of his friends were after his job
Jim felt a little absurd:
He said at last, “If I left the field,
’Twas because I believed it right,
But now I’ve been forced by the foe to yield
I think I’ll come back and fight;
Though my dear old mates may offend yer,
They’ll still be my pride and joy:
I’ll live, but they’ll surrender!”
Said the Wild Colonial Boy.
So now they’re sure that Dangerous Jim
Has dealt with his own defection,
The bosses are due to confer with him
On winning the next election;
And Liberal managers can’t complain,
Or Liberal progress lag,
If Labor entrusts its whole campaign
To General Jim McGag.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Nakhoda”: Reported that Sir
Willoughby Nome, S.A.’s Governor,
landed a 15ft, 6in. shark, weighing just
under a ton, near Winceby Island, thus
establishing a new Australian record for
big fish. An amateur fisherman at San
Remo (Vic.) is said to have played and
landed a bigger one, but concrete evi-
dence is lacking. The proud angler claims
he brought his catch into the San Remo
jetty and suspended it from a derrick,
where it excited immense interest, especi-
ally among the professional shark-boat
crews in port. The owner hurried off to
the township to dig up a camera so that
he and his shark could be photographed
together. When he got back to the jetty
the fish had vanished. “Flake” —filleted
shark —is worth £4 10s. a box at the Mel-
bourne markets.
* * * ♦
“Sixenate”: Public-house bars are not
the only places in Australia (B. 8/3/’5O)
where singing is taboo. Only a few
months ago a New Australian, moved
by the joy of the sunshine in Hyde Park
(Sydney), burst into song. He had a
fine voice, but the view that he’d “sud-
denly gone mad” was probably shared
by half the people within hearing.
A couple of policemen, suspecting,
at first, the felonious intention of
gathering a collection, watched for a
while, then, finding that theory wrong,
finished the impromptu concert by arrest-
ing the singer for “offensive behavior.”
A sensible magistrate who said that he
could not see anything offensive in an
outburst of song dismissed the case ; but
even he felt it necessary to caution the
songster that he must obey the wishes of
the police, who “have a hard job to main-
tain order in a large city,”
* * * *
“R.M.”: Brickburning on nightshift at
Enfield (N.S.W.), a fe\V years back,
I passed a lonely hour engraving on one
face of an unburned face-brick:
In Greece’s Spartan fight
The arrogant array
Of Mussolini’s might
Disintegrates today,
I reset the brick in the kiln, but was on
the wrong shift to recover it when the
kiln was being emptied. As one good
face on a brick is all that is necessary, it
is highly probable that my brick has
been built-in somewhere and may some
day provide a problem for demolition-
workers.
* * * *
“E.P,”: During the war servicemen
swore they could identify the city they
were in solely by the questions they were
asked. In Melbourne the question was:
“Who are you?” In Sydney, “What have
you got?” And in Brisbane, “What can
I do for you?”
* * ♦ *
“Tackline S.”: Years ago I visited
London’s dockland in a ship with negro
firemen. While shaving in preparation
for a jaunt ashore a couple of them
congratulated each other on being married
to white girls. Each, it came out, had
married a barmaid, and each now found
that his barmaid pulled beer in the same
pub as the other. With true negro
excitement they agreed to visit the
beery joint together to celebrate the amaz-
ing coincidence. At their destination
each sought to embrace the same em-
barrassed female. Negro temperaments
are not ideal for shipmates who have left
half-pay to the? same wife* Hurrying
back aboard, each seized his razor for a
purpose less decorative than that of the
earlier shaving. I believe the record for
this ancient racket was held by an
estaminet girl in Marseilles who, while
the reign of glory lasted, drew half-pay
from more than a score of seafaring
“husbands.” That spider’s web was an
oft-borrowed baby.
* * * *
“Bo”: I have heard golfers assert feel-
ingly that nothing is more wearing to the
nerves than a partner who addresses his
ball interminably; others plump for the
fellow who is more concerned in search-
ing for his tee than pin-pointing his ball
as it goes into the rough, and afterwards
co-opts the rest as a search-party. Yet
again will be nominated the one who
drags himself around the course as would
a kid on his way to the dentist. But have
they forgotten the cove who, while his
ball is still soaring, grabs his bag and
wants to tear after it as if the devil were
driving him on? Which recalls Mc-
Gloop, known among his intimates as
“The Galloper.” As three of his golfing
pals were waiting to hit off at the first
at their outer-suburban nine-hole course
McGloop came rushing up and dropped
his ball into the second-round section of
the ballrace. Seeing that he was on his
own they deemed it only etiquette to invite
him to join them. “Sorry I can’t accept,
blokes,” he said, “but I’m taking the
wife around.” The others looked mysti-
fied. “Where is she?” one of them
asked, “Oh, about two or three holes
back,” quoth McGloop, as he impatiently
fumbled for ball and tee. “Say, what
the hell’s all the hold-up?”
* ♦ * «
“Minto”: “Unprocurable,” beloved
word of the war years, has given place to
a less drastic term with those with some-
thing for sale. I ordered a load of horse-
manure and waited patiently for weeks.
At last I complained to the bloke. With
a display of hostility worthy of a kiosk-
girl asked for Australian cigarettes, he
replied, “You’ll have to wait. It’s in short
supply.”
• ♦ ♦ •
“Percy Pawnticket”: When in the
long-ago an audacious Sydney shopkeeper
exhibited in his window a pile of female
undergarments, modestly enough stacked,
he stirred up an outburst of “disgust,
horror, and dismay” by his depravity.
In modern times the shop displays leave
nothing to the imagination about what
women wear, but maybe there is a return
in an inverse way to the old mock-
modesty of the past. Because some
undergarments of mine are calling loudly
for replacement I have recently done some
window-shopping. Mercery windows,
however, seem to have a great reluctance
about exhibiting men’s underpants ; where
they are shown they are modestly hidden
somewhere in the background, the prices
"I got the advance from the boss all right, but then
I had to repel him."
being the only things that are not modest.
Certainly there is nothing glamorous
about male underpants, and it might be
well to put them where they will not
offend feminine eyes. Underpants are
not alone, either. In a Sydney club
where, on a hot night, some of the men
had discarded their coats, the officials
were shocked to observe that one of
them was showing his braces. He was
politely informed that this could not be
tolerated when ladies were present. The
offending braces being removed and a
belt substituted, honor was satisfied,
These things may have no significance;
but I have my fears.
♦ * * *
“Hamer”: Opportunity came my
way to check up on a chap who interested
rtte in the years agone when he received
jail sentences amounting to 560 years. He
was an armed robber who had had a long
“Be patient, John — it's too hot to put in your mouth yet"
immunity from arrest, but, when at last
caught with goods from scores of rob-
beries, helped the police with a confession
of offences that had made the doings of
himself and his cobbers look like a com-
plete tidal-wave of crime. The sentences
on his huge list of convictions being
made concurrent his future prospects
were not as bad as they seemed on paper,
seven years being the limit. Through
good conduct he came out of jail long
before the seven years were up. A re-
formed character, he settled down to a
decent life after his release and, after
many years, is still on the straight and
narrow.
• * * •
“Clooter”: One of those things that
contribute to the amity of nations and
prove that gratitude is still a human
happened to a friend of mine.
A couple of years ago he was about to
start a round of golf at the Eastlakes
(Sydney) club when he discovered a soli-
tary young man
hanging about and
invited him to a
game. The stranger
turned put to be a
member of the crew
of the U.S. aircraft-
carrier Valley Forge,
then on a brief
visit. He was a six-
handicap player in
his hometown, and
the upshot was that
he became the guest
of the Eastlakes club
and was later enter-
tained at my friend’s
home. Time passed
and my friend had
almost forgotten the
incident. The other
day came a letter
from America, ex-
pressing the writer’s
gratitude for what he
called “the best
hours he’d had in
Australia” and with
it a beautiful little
wooden casket con-
taining six golf balls,
each of them in-
scribed with my
friend’s name. They
won’t be used near
water-hazards.
♦ *
“Pink Tape”; We
had in our branch of
the Public Service an
officer who was sar-
castically nicknamed Bernborough. In
the course of being wished round the
service he was wished on to me. All he
had to do was to put a cancellation-
number and stamp on bundles of
vouchers; doing some of them myself, I
had dealt with them at the rate of 30
bundles a day. Bernborough on one
notable occasion got through. seven;
usually his output was five, But one day
he failed fo get near- to even that; it
moved me, eyeing him with disfavor, to
demand: “Do you mean to say you have
taken all day to do three bundles?” He
was silent for a moment; then he found
his excuse, “Well, today’s pay-day, isn’t
it?”
*-* * *
“V.V.J.”: “Quilliam - street” (B.
l/3/’5O) is barking up the wrong tree.
The Edward VII statue in Adelaide stands
more than half-way across the true align-
ment of the North-terrace footpath, and
the stepped base extends right beyond
it; the lower step, about 3in. high and
18in. wide —the other about 6in. high and
3ft. wide. It is the stepped base that his
clumsiest female and many others find
most inconvenient; it is certainly an
obstruction to pedestrians.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Macßopus”: Lennie is the boots,
barman and rouseabout at the local.
Lennie also drinks—a lot. Some months
ago the boss told him he would have to
give up the booze, so Lennie swore off
liquor for life. That was in the morn-
ing, and Lennie did not have another
drink that day. Next morning the boss
found Lennie draped over the bar with
a pint in front of him, and once again
blind, “I thought you swore off the
drink for life, Lennie?” he fumed. “So
I did, pal,” replied Len, “But I didn’t
think I’d live this long.”
• ♦ ♦' * *
“C. 8.”: Modern people seem to have
a horror of cellars (B. 22/3/’5O). The
other day I offered for sale, at about half
the price of a modern cottage, an old
mudbrick house near Melbourne with a
pillared cellar as big again as the house.
The enormous stones were quarried on
his own land by the vigneron who built
it and he evidently stored his wine casks
there. A person with imagination could,
with a little trouble, turn the cellar into
a magnificent reception-room, yet, such
are the prejudices against cellars, that
everybody who looked at it thought it
would be a disadvantage, and one wanted
it to be filled in.
♦ * * *
“Telarb”: A native teacher in Torres
Straits had been dallying with his female
pupils and had brought upon his head
the wrath of the Government as ex-
pressed in a letter from the Protector:
“We have received the following com-
plaints about you: (1) that you have
been causing a lot of trouble; (2) that you
do not carry out your duties fully; (3)
that you have been frequently immoral.
You are hereby dismissed from the ser-
vice.” Well-drilled in office procedure,
the ex-teacher carefully filed the letter
and noted on the bottom “No answer.”
•* * * *
“Laetitia”: When the recently-arrived
Sergeant O’Flaherty descended on the
Mulgaville Shearers’ Arms the only bar
patron was the constable, dropped in for
a snifter on his way home from church.
The junior limb of the law effaced himself
by clinging with his knees drawn up to
the top of the screen which stood before
the main door of the bar, so that only
his barest finger-tips protruded. In this
Spartan pose he remained till the sergeant
withdrew. Five minutes later Moloney
halted in the dispensing of a nerve-
steadier to answer a phone-ring from the
Sergeant enjoining him to “tell that
young galoot that he can cease his
monkey-tricks now and come over to the
station, not forgetting to bring a cold
bottle for mesilf,”
NOBLESSE OBLIGE.
“Criticising the selection of diplomatic cadets on
what he termed the ‘old-school-tie’ basis, ‘Labor
member J. M, Mullens said ‘he was always suspicious
of men whose names began with Reginald, Percy,
and so on.’ ”
One really must accept as axiomatic
That names bestowed upon a babe at birth
Will point that he’ll be either autocratic,
A person of considerable worth,
Or, like Uriah Keep, he’ll be “quite ’umble,”
An underdog of life, in very truth.
The choice of monicker he gets, you tumble,
Determines if he’ll be a Bung or Bumble,
A diplomat, or someone quite uncouth.
It’s scarcely likely that you’ve heard a wharfie
Greeting a fellow-loafer he has met ' •
Over the midday “Sossidge-rolls and cawfie
As Graham, Cyril or Plantagenet.
They’d look upon it as a major scandal,
Excuse for yet another “rolling” strike,
Should some hook-wielder own to such a
“handle”
As Lancelot, Basil, Belvedere or Randall,
Instead of Tim or Mike.
Our diplomat-cadets (so Mister Mullens
Avers, his collar regist’ring some heat),
Inevitably must be very dull ’uns.
They’d never, never learn to be discreet.
No man would have the brains to get a word in
When dealing with some foreign diplomat,
Were he com|>elled to lump the awful burden
Of Christian-name like Archibald or Murdon —
It’s Mullens’ logic, that.
When Bert was there cadets weren’t “sooks” or
dudies;
They’d democratic names like Alf or Joe
Which thus ensured they’d turn out real
shrewdies.
Brilliant ambassadors in embryo.
To his belief that things are for the worse, he
(That’s Mullens) very obstinately clings.
All our diplomacy is at the mercy-
Speaking nomenclaturally—of Percy,
Who’s now the boss of things.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; Anderson and Scott were
sharing the hut on Moonlight when the
boss sent out Ross, the rabbiter, to help
them clean-up the warrens. The first
thing that happened was a first-class
brawl between Ross’s five mongs and the
two kelpies and greyhound who believed
themselves to be sole proprietors of the
hut and appurtenances thereunto. Ross
demanded a restraint order on kelpies
and greyhound in the form of dog-chains,
Anderson said his kelpies had never been
on a chain and they weren’t starting
now ; Scott held that his greyhound was
a peaceful animal if Ross’s mongs would
mind their own ruddy business. Ross
then fought Anderson arfd beat him,
whereupon Scott trounced Ross for the
honor of Moonlight. In the subsequent
treaty-talks Anderson and Scott offered
Ross all that portion of Moonlight in the
north-west corner, 10 miles from the hut,
as a camping-ground, offering to keep
their dogs away from the frontier. Ross
declined, holding that the boss had
awarded him residence in the hut, and the
war broke out again. It was at its height,
dogs and all, when Murmurin’ Mick
arrived. He was on his way through
from Prungle to Euston, where, he re-
ported, Halliday the woodcutter was cele-
brating a third-prize win in Tatt’s. An
hour later Moonlight hut lay empty and
peaceful and a harmonious cavalcade was
passing through Little Gulthul gate.
* * * *
“Telarb”: The Torres Straits islander
is forgetting his former beliefs —or is he?
The native method of burial was to dump
the corpse on the ground and stack on
gibbers sufficient to hold it down. These
rock-mounds are still come across
occasionally. One young islander, find-
“How did you say your mother used to skewer a duck ?”
ing one in a state of disrepair with a few
bones poking through, thought to make
his mana strong in the village by bringing
home “head belong man” and using it for
an ornament. They duly regarded him
with awe, to make which more awful he
told them he prbposed to sleep with the
*kull on the floor beside his mat. All
dolefully shook their heads, prophesying
a particularly sticky end for him. In the
middle of the night the skull became
animated. It produced a pair of disem-
bodied arms from somewhere; growing
out from its temples, they reached out
and grabbed the sleeper. The thing leered
evilly at him and then, opening its bony
jaws, emitted a soul-chilling scream of
rage. The sleeper awoke and left the hut
like a bat out of hell and spent the rest
of the night by a fire on the beach. Next
morning he collected the skull and took
it back to its former resting-place. The
villagers, of course, merely nodded
gravely in an “I told you so” manner.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: A seagull got prefer-
ence over a politician in the A.B.C. news
the other day owing to its having
reached the Alice. The cyclone that drove
s.-w, into Queensland was blamed, and
the announcer added that the nearest sea-
water was in the Gulf, about 600 miles
away. True; hut there are gulls well on
their way inland from other directions.
At Lake Narran, about 40 miles north
from Brewarrina (N.S.W.) and west of
the Darling, there are scores of them. Ad-
mittedly, this is closer to the sea than
is Alice Springs; but here birds are
already 400 miles inland and further
wanderings shouldn’t worry them. If
they leave Narran when it dries up—as it
sometimes does—they must scatter to
other inland water or go back to the
coast; in which case they get return
tickets, for they’re there again when the
lake is full. Can anyone from Boorooma
or Terewah tell us if they stay till
there’s only a mud-hole in the middle?
I’ve seen terns at Coward Springs, and
it’s possible that other fowl we associate
with the rolling main have more than a
nodding acquaintance with the rolling
plain.
* * *
“Ex-R.S.M.”: In Australia most of the
world’s best timber trees reach maturity
in far less time than they take in their
original homelands. Even more remark-
able, the quality of the timber is better.
Pinus radiata enjoys two growing periods
per year in southern Australia; as a
result it reaches maturity in half the time
it takes in its native California. The red-
wood (Sequoia sempervkens) makes even
better growth; recently I examined a
specimen which was planted 35 years ago.
The trunk is now 2ft. 4in. in diameter at
breast height and the clean, straight bole
would yield two 15ft. mill logs. It is far
longer and bigger in the trunk than near-
by radiatas planted at the same time*
Redwood fetches three times the price of
best locally-grown pine ; it is not attacked
by white-ants, and it will last for years
when exposed to the weather. It likes a
cool, moist climate with a rainfall of
more than 30in.; we have millions of
acres thus suitable in southern N.S.W. and
eastern Victoria. A single bushfire can
ruin plantations of trees such as radiata
pine ; redwoods are fireproof. Why we
don’t plant whole forests of this tree is a
mystery. But the most striking example
of more rapid tree-growth in Australia
is provided by the Ajnerican “Shagbark”
hickory (Carya ovata). Our Forestry
Departments have not managed to grow
this valuable tree, but Broken Hill Pty. is
doing the job. David Whibley, of Stirling
West, S.A., who raises seedling hickories
for the 8.H.P., has found that trees
which after four years of growth would
be little more than a foot high in the
U.S.A. may reach more than sft. in the
same period here. Whibley, who has been
growing trees for most of his 72 years,
believes this indicates that here hickories
may be big enough to cut in less than 30
years of growth, as compared with the
40 years or more required in their home-
land. And the faster hickory grows the
better the timber. Some day Australian
landowners may awaken to the fact that
growing commercially-valuable timbers in
areas of good rainfall is one of the safest
and most profitable of all long-term in-
vestments.
* * * *
“Baroona”: The belief, long taught to
boy scouts, that one lost in timbered
country may get his bearings by noting
that moss grows mainly on the southern
side of trees is now coming under fire.
Every tree has a regular network of
drainage channels on its trunk. These
rainwater tracks are determined by the
dispositions of the branches, and by trunk
contours and slopes. Waterlogged outer
bark along these lines, in high-rainfall
areas, favors the growth of fungi, which
soften the bark and render it more
absorptive to water* Other lowly plants,
lichens and tiny liverworts, then colonise
the water-track. The bark along the
drainage line becomes progressively more
open in texture and more waterlogged.
Finally conditions become favorable for
the growth of larger liverworts and
mosses, and the tree’s drainage system is
marked out in living green. Scoutmasters
may take comfort, however, from the fact
that strong sunlight on the northern side
of the tree would prove a rather unfavour-
able environment for the lowly plant-life
that precedes moss growth. I’d still take
a bet on finding more moss on southern
aspects.
*** ■ *
“S.E.”: Harvest-time was round again,
and Dad was lucky enough to find a bloke
in town willing to do a few weeks. With
him, and the help of old Ted from half
a mile down, he reckoned they could
get the job through. The first day was
cloudy. The second morning the sun
broke through viciously and the town
bloke began to lose a bit of sweat. For
some hours he* stuck to the job, then he
glanced uneasily at the sun, which showed
a fair space to the next cloud relief,
Dad called to him, and he went across
to help with some unruly sheaves. Ten
minutes more, and he again looked at
the sun, pulled his hat down further, and
went on with the work. “Going to make
this,the last load before dinner, Dad?”
called Ted. The old bloke worked round
to his neighbor, and paused to nod to-
wards the town bloke, who was mopping
his face and once more squinting at the
sun. “See him?” grunted Dad. “Can’t
beat ’em, can y’? Yair, better make this
the last. Don’t seem t’ matter where y’
go nowadays, soon’s it comes near knock-
off they all start watchin’ the time,”
* * * *
“Blime”: They call it “up the bush.”
Maybe an hour’s run from the city—
if you don’t run fast —it is a favorite
recuperating haunt of the 40-hour-week
“toilers.” With an abundant rainfall,
and the sort of soil that produces the
wildest profusion of scrub and rubbish in
the shortest possible time, the wood-,
pecker-chipping of the weekender’s axe
just about keeps the doorstep free of
undergrowth. Finding ourselves in the
area, we wended our wet way down a
little runt of a track that was slinking
furtively through the blackberry and dog-
wood to a place called Paradise. “Isn’t
it grand,” breathed my ecstatic city com-
panion, “to get ’way back in the bush
away from everyone?” I bumped against
another of the shacks that crowd thicker
than fleas on a dog, took in the garden
enclosed within an old motor-tyre, kicked
a way through the empties, and grunted.
“And, look, quick—a rabbit!” he gasped
excitedly. I glanced at the herbage, which
consisted of a hard scant tussock at rare
intervals, and added my exclamation of
surprise that the rodent should be there.
For 10 minutes my companion planned
weird and wonderful ways of snaring the
bunny, told of a neighbor’s grandad who
knew a man who had once seen a wallaby
in the vicinity, and pointed out a wealth
of impossibility in a cross-grained and
waterlogged trunk rotting in the creek.
We skirted a parked utility, rounded a
mess of briar and tree suckers, fell over
a picnic party and were stopped by a cove
searching diligently for firewood. And
they call that “up the bush”!
« * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: We had a mate on our
Mallee clearing job whose favorite
admonition to the nation at large was
that the country should be given back to
the blacks, being no ruddy good for white
men. One day, what with heat, flies and
hard work, tempers were somewhat
ruflied. Our axes rang listlessly and con-
versation was scarce. “Ah,” snorted our
mate, “they ought t’ give this country
back to the blacks.” Silence, except for
the klok, Idok of our axes; then Mat
dropped his Douglas, spat, pushed his hat
back and snarled, “No, give it to the
South Australians. The Macks never done
me no harm.” He sat down and rolled
a smoke, squinting balefully into the
glare. “I gotta get even with them ruddy
South Ossers somehow,” he growled. “If
they’d pay a man a decent wage I might
still ha’ bin down at Mt. Barker, instead
o’ sweatin’ me insides out in this flamin’
oven.”
* * * ♦
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver had picked up
a pup that was at the playful age. We
were doing a job a couple of miles from
home, and, having stock to visit daily,
I left early and met the old bloke at the
site. The first morning he arrived out
of sorts. He vouchsafed no explanation,
but during the day I noticed he was
shy of a sock. Next morning he was
half an hour late. “Where y’ been?” I
inquired, “Aw, the beggar pinched me
boot,” he growled, exhibiting one foot
tied up in a strip of bag and a piece of
leather. “Must ’a’ carted it inter the scrub
somewhere. I’ll have another look t’-
night.” I had put in an hour’s work the
following morning before he showed up,
walking grimly over the ridge. “Don’t
tell me he pinched your nag, too,” I
greeted, as solemnly as I could. “ ’Course
he didn’t, Sol,” he snorted. “But he
dragged me bridle away somewhere an’
y’ know I can’t ride that new moke
without a bridle.” Seven o’clock loomed
next day, eight, then nine, and still no
sign of the old bloke! At midday I rode
back to the hut to see what had hap-
pened. His muffled voice met me some
time before I rounded the corner and
came on his booted end protruding from
under the hut. The pup was barking
delightedly at the kicking boots, between
bouts of strenuous tugging at a semi-
detached trouser-cuff. Presently the old
bloke backed out, festooned with rubbish,
his red mug glaring through the cobwebs
like an outsize spider. “You didn t come
to work,” I mentioned weakly. How
can a man go t’ work?” he bawled,
letting out a kick as the pup made off
with the cuff. “How can he ever go
anywhere any more? Should never a
took the thing orf, I s’pose. That . . .
that silly idjit” • • • .He rose portentous y,
and delivered it like a declaration of
war. “’E’s took me ’at"
THE POSSUM’S TREE.
This is the possum’s tree,
His claws have left their mark,
Their scrawling tale of visiting
Sharply in the bark.
He must hunt for mistletoe
In trees that float in mist.
Before the sun has flooded
The hills with amethyst.
He knows a different land,
Where morning comes too soon
In a secret, shadow world
Underneath the moon.
While the wakeful magpie
Plays his lonely flute,
In the silver starlight ,
Me feasts on golden fruit.
None shall know who come by day
He haunts the valley floor,
But those who see the name he scratched
Beneath his open door.
S.A.
IRENE GOUGH.


“Lyrist”: Blue and Ted were bunking
together in one room of the men’s
quarters, having arrived there well after
“Short back and sides, please, and none off the lop”
ark. They disposed themselves for the
'gnt by the light of a hurricane-lamp,
then discovered a difference of
opinion on the subject of fresh air. Blue
ad a cold, and Ted suffered from asthma,
iter a while Blue rose and shut the
mdow. “Can’t bear that draught,” he
jumbled. Ted said nothing, but, wait-
ing until Blue was asleep, sneaked out
and opened it. About half an hour
later Blue woke, and, seeing the open
window, got up with a curse and shut it.
Ted promptly flung it open again. By
this time both were cranky. One word
led to several more, and, exasperated. Blue
took a pass at Ted. In stepping back
to get out of reach, Ted tripped over a
pair of trilbies; he tottered back on his
heels for a few steps, spun around in a
frenzied effort to regain equilibrium and
his head went right through the window.
And very lucky, they both agreed later,
that the window-frame was entirely
devoid of glass.
* * * ♦
“Pip Tok”; The old saying that a mule
has neither pride of ancestry nor hope
of posterity was given a jolt at Derby
(W.A.), when a mule-mare belonging to
the police gave" birth to a colt foal. The
foal drew milk from the mo.ther in
the normal way. Local vets, said there
had been similar cases at experimental
agricultural stations in the U.S.A., and
there was one at Yedith station in the
Kimberleys some years ago. The evi-
dence available suggests that once a mule-
mare has foaled she may do so again; if
to a stallion, only to a stallion; and
if to a donkey, only to a donkey.
* * * *
“Kiloran”: It is air-pressure that pre-
vents the platypus’s nest-chamber from
being immersed even when floods bring
the river-level above it, just as in mine-
floodings air-pressure in pockets has saved
many miners’ lives.
* * * *
“H.A.L.” hops in with a theory:
Evidence collected during the past 50 years
shows that long before the Christian era
early sea-rovers and -traders were making
voyages to the eastern Pacific. Bronze Age
implements, now in the museum at Leiden,
Holland, were discovered around Lake Sentani,
in Dutch New Guinea, and the natives around
Hollandia were found to possess beads of a
type made in China over 2000 years ago. The
Land Dyaks of Borneo cherish, as precious
heirlooms, Chinese jars of an equally ancient
type. We also have the evidence of the —as
yet —undated ruins of massive stone walls and
embankments on the island of Ponape. Nothing
so raises the ire of ethnologists and archaeolo-
gists as to have any of these things ascribed
to the “early Spanish navigators.” They
become nearly as heated if anyone tries to give
the credit to the Phoenicians. They point out
that the latter people were among the pioneer
seafarers, but they were mainly engaged in
distributing, around the eastern end of the
Mediterranean, silks, spices and other valuables
which had reached them via a sea-trading
route stretching eastward to China and
which were carried by the ships of other races
over most of the journey. It must be admitted
that a few adventurous Phoenicians did travel
far; on southern Sumatra, dated 300 b.c., is
a rock inscription left by one of them. On the
other hand, the Periplus of the Erythraean Sea,
which was written in the first century a.d.,
and is probably the oldest book of sailing
directions in the world* goes no farther than
Ceylon; it ends with the statement that “The
regions beyond these places are either difficult
of access because of their excessive winters
and great cold, or else cannot be sought out
because of some divine influence of the gods.”
Probably the writer of it was hoodwinked about
“you’re Wanted on the phone, dear”
the dangers of navigating to the eastward of
Ceylon by other traders who didn’t want com-
petition any farther afield. All the evidence
points to these ancient navigator-traders of the
western Pacific belonging to what was probably
the world’s first civilisation; the Indo-Sumerian
culture which, as the ruins of Mohenjo-Daro
in the Indus Valley prove, had deep drainage,
shower baths, a system of writing and other
signs of high development long before anywhere
else. The womenfolk wore garments of a
material resembling muslin, into which were
woven or printed floral designs which would
be considered highly artistic today. The final
solution to this historical puzzle may come
with the finding of more rock inscriptions in
the East Indies and the western Pacific or
through further translations of that vast store
of early human knowledge, the Babylonian clay
tablets.
« * * ♦
“The 0.D.”: What does “8.A.K.”
mean (B. 22/3/’50)? First he says, “I
don’t agree with ‘The O.D.’ that a snake
will invariably move once you take your
eyes off him,” then he says, “As a general
rule he won’t —until your eyes are
diverted for half a second.” And all that
talk about bush credulity, with which I’m
perfectly familiar, doesn’t alter my point:
that a snake-wise bushman keeps his eye
on Joe until he finds a dispatching
weapon, knowing that to look away
means losing Joe.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: A resident of
Leonora (W.A.) wandered away from the
local hospital and remained lost for nearly
two days. He was found about 35 miles
away in the bush, and although it was in
the middle of summer he suffered no ill-
effects. It’s understandable. He wasn’t a
city bushman who’d got lost while hunt-
ing in the wild country just beyond cooee
of the trams, or he’d have suffered un-
told agonies before being rescued by
the usual search-parties. This bloke,
although ill, obviously had —what’s the
word? —stamina. Besides, he was old
enough to look after himself —72 last
birthday.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: I didn’t give the name
“Murrayian” to the southern type of
Australian abo.; that distinction was
given by the team of research-workers
from Harvard and Adelaide Universities
who made a study of Australian racial
types in 1938 (B. 8/ 3 / ’5O). It must be
admitted that George Grey was a cap-
able and intrepid explorer who did a very
thorough job in the nor’-west of W.A.,
although for a long time his reputation
was in doubt, for subsequent visitors
failed to find the wonderful cave paintings
which he described. Some went so far
as to charge him with having imagined
their existence. Of late years, however,
all have been rediscovered and Grey’s
reputation has been vindicated. All the
same it is absurd to hold him up as an
authority on racial types; modem
methods rely upon skull measurements
(oraniology) and blood-grouping, especi-
ally of the Rh factor, which puts the
whole thing on a sound basis. To quote
Grey’s opinions, expressed over 100 years
ago, is akin to quoting a century-old
medical opinion instead of a modern
diagnosis. I advise “Anthropo” to study a
copy of Records, Queen Victoria
Museum, Launceston, 1948. The article
by Joseph B. Birdsell is regarded by
ethnologists as unchallengeable.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: The first item to be
learned in net-fishing is that mullet or any
other school-fish are generally on the
move. Second, when alarmed such a
school will turn back, not shoot forward.
Thus, when a school is located, perhaps
quietly feeding, the fisherman takes the
seine out behind them, the net running
out quietly over the stern of the boat:
less than 100 yards of net isn’t much
good. Quietness and stealth are essential;
some men use muffled oars. With the
school almost encircled a few slaps on
the water with an oar blade starts it
dashing back frantically the way it came.
Thus the fish smack into the net and be-
come gilled. There may b© more to it
if the net. is long enough. Many of the
fish may still be free, too cunning to try
to thrust a way through the mesh, so the
man on the shore end starts to bring his
pole out to the boat and thus complete
the circle. The school is now shut right
in. So both ends of the net may continue
oii until a double circle is formed. The
water is then again slapped to alarm the
fish further. This will result in a further
meshing. Many fish will jump the inner
circle of corks, only to be meshed by
the outer circle as they dash for apparent
freedom.
* * * *
“Zake”: The author of my thriller
had his hero in a sticky spot. Attached
to the nether portion of his car as he
drove away one dark night were a few
plugs of gelignite attached to a lighlted
fuse, parked there by the double-dyed
villain. But was the clean-limbed Trevor
of the varnished hair and honest, wide-
spaced eyes blown to heaven soon after
he had got into top-gear? Not a hopeT
And for why? Well, providentially for
our hero a water-main had burst in the
street and his car had to plough through
a foot of water, which was just sufficient
to submerge the fuse and douse it before
it could get to the jelly. Please correct
me if I am wrong, but Trevor should
still have been soaring skyward, gelignite-
fuse having the power to operate irrespec-
tive of the presence of H2O. Now had
it been a box of blasting-powder the
author would have been on sound ground.
WILD CATTLE.
wad cattle, oh. wild cattle! I see those scenes
n/Sje'butt and wattle scrubs, the stockyard
netttmta the early dawn, then saddle
B( hiS d the“coaching cattle to where deanskins
roar and play.
]n lead a native stockman rides to cut the
And 5 on b the S tail his women drive the spares
HoW W tense UC the scene when from the lead the
•■ScmbbtrT on Stof ahead behind the cypress
pine!”
Now lie upon your horse’s mane, the day’s work
The Aching” ’cattle mooing low have started
hj oW U coachers n meet the scrubbers, a pause and
Whertf^wattle are showers of a golden
scented spray.
js)ow wheel the cattle to the flat and watch
the pikers splash
Towards the shelter of the scrub, now hear
the timbers crash
As scrub bulls break the wattle down, their
fiercely-deafening cries .
Arc roaring hate, tough, reckless hate, with
madness in its eyes.
Wild cattle, oh, wild cattle! Now throw and
hold them strong
With leather bull-straps from our waists, or
softened greenhide thong.
Out with the saw and tip their horns and let
them up again
To fizz amidst the coachcrs as they ring upon
the plain.
Now let them rest a jiffy, then we’ll move the
mob along
Through lanes betwix’ the timber where the
bush-birds sing their song;
Then down on to the river flat where gum and
leichhardt grow,
And cooling limpid waters through the green
pandanus flow.
Wild cattle, oh, wild cattle! Let’s ring ’em
and bring ’em down,
And drove a mob of killers to the butcher in
the town;
As years ago we brought them, and jogged the
packs along
With black men and their women all a-joining
in the song.
N.T.
W. E. HARNEY.
RADIO ROUSEABOUT
My friend, Bill
from Battery
Flat, in a letter
last week says
that I have dealt
thin„ , with most every-
«"“d« the radio sun in this column
sit opinions about the fellows who
that’ll ku l * l6 micr °Phone (by the way,
sit u„L be , e da V —when the microphones
with tu e h° ws )* Being concerned
and man , u facture of the apparatus
what V£ u W^*ic h transmit and receive
Phones;” k he eU°ws-behind-the-micro-
rtiay be t 0 ,! ay . ° r sing ’ as the case
Pm vine a f t^ ou ,Bht it was hardly in my
all but tr° ? ea with these gentlemen at
demand r e com P ed ed to accede to this
*ho wn„id om u my friend B hom 8.F.,
how until 1 P l°, bably k f?P writing me any
untll 1 dld something about it.
First of all, I don’t know very many
of them personally, and in my wildest
dreams of thirty years ago never imagined
that so many people would be saying so
much over so many microphones all over
Australia at the same time for so many
hours each day, because this would have
seemed so redundant for the just one pair
of ears which we all possess. But what
we call progress has built up a colossal
number of broadcasting stations apart
from those run by our Government who
dare not let a minute pass of the waking
hours in the lives of our population with-
out injecting something over the air
through the said microphones. Without
the help of recordings the job would have
been utterly impossible, and just how
many acres of recorded music passes
under the pick-up needles in our Aus-
tralian broadcasting stations alone every
day would be very hard to estimate, but
perhaps my friend B from B.F. might
care to do it one day and let me know
within a couple of roods and perches
what the score is. And then he wouldn’t
be finished, because tape and wire are
also used for recordings, as most people
know, passing under an electronic scan-
ning device at a terrific rate, and this
could easily amount to many, many
miles. But what has all this got to do
with the fellows behind the microphones?
Only this, that I wanted to talk particu-
larly about a cobber of mine named Jack
Davey, who remains a constant source
of delight to all our family at home and
no doubt to thousands of homes through-
out Australia. How he can go on burb-
ling in his humorous way over the air
night after night for all these years would
be amazing if you didn’t know him as I
know him. In other words, it is just
natural Jack Davey, and we could do
with more of this natural repartee (as
well as, of course, the ability to read good
script) on the part of these fellows be-
hind the microphones. I asked him to
do a little advertising film for us some
time back, and he caught on to the idea
in double-quick time and proved himself
no mean picture actor, even to the extent
of appearing in nothing but a bath towel
looking more like a matman than a radio
entertainer 1 His main theme throughout
the film was a plea to his customers to
make certain that he entered tJieir home
in the same immaculate condition as he
left the studio, through, of course, the
medium of the said microphones and not,
as he demonstrated, stripped of all those
things which went to make hun the
finished artist that he is. Not a bad idea,
after all, but, in any case, you can judge
for yourselves when you see this Mu ■
lard'/Jack Davey film in your local
theatre, where it will again appear short y
after an already highly successful
premiere. You will like my friend Jack
in his bath towel and you will surely ad-
mit that the new Mullard radios to which
he is proud to give his endorsement and
his Hi-Ho blessing are truly magnificent.
—Advt.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Gas Light Co. (Sydney)
Dividends To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. (All Shares). serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1939.. 232,325 6 p.c. = 287,629 1.776
1940.. 218,774 4J „ „ 218,700 74 1,850
1941.. 202,100 4 „ ~ 194,400 7,700 9,550
1942.. 195,970 4 „ „ 194,400 1,570 11,120
1943.. 224,323 4} „ „ 218,700 5,623 16,743
1944.. 297,537 5i „ „ 230,850 66,687 83,430
1945.. 338,872 6 „ „ 291,600 47,272 130,702
1946.. 323,302 6 „ „ 291,600 31,702 188,104
From tax provision, etc., £38,903.. 177,007
1947.. 250,999 6 p.c. = 291,600 136,406
1948.. 144,174 5 „ „ 243,000 37,580
Loss.
1949.. 2,943 Nil 35,087
What has happened here? For the first
time since this big and efficiently-handled
public-utility undertaking was formed 112
years ago shareholders have been shown
an empty basket, and the scrip, listed as
a trustee security, has fallen to a discount
in the market. There is £4,860,000 of
share capital to feed, and it is held by
nearly 8000 shareholders, of whom 92
p.c. hold 200 shares or less, and 60 p.c.
of those on register are women, who
sought what, according to legislation,
ought to be a more or less assured return
on a modest investment.
During 1949 the price of the £6 shares
fell from £6 16s. to £5 11s. in the market.
Last week the figure waa £5 14s. 6d>., which
would return 5.‘2 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis, or 6.3 p.c. on a 6 p.c. distribution.
Since 1932 the co. has sold at auction
(before the war) 125,000 £6 shares, which
brought with them £125,500 of share
premiums, the average price being a wink
over £7 a share.
Downright shabby treatment by the
McGirr Government is responsible for
the plight in which the co. and its share-
holders now find themselves. With an
overriding control over the co.’s earnings
and financial position, the Government
has sought political favor by keeping the
selling-price of gas at or below the rising
cost of production, adopting obstructive
tactics for the purpose—the same Gov-
ernment to which delay was anathema
when it decided to raise members’ salaries
and grant them pensions. Such short-
sighted Government policy will, in the
long-run, react to the detriment of some
1,300,000 gas consumers and over 3300
employees as well as shareholders. The
policy declared and practised by the co,
is to maintain a balance of rights as be-
tween consumers, employees and share-
holders, which is as it should be.
The N. S. Wales Gas and Electricity
Act of 1935-46 fixes the standard rate of
dividend at 6 p.c. on ord. capital—same
as the 1932 Act; previously the rate had
been 8 p.c. It also provides for fixing
the selling-price of £as at a figure that
will enable the 6 p.c. to be paid, after
meeting all legitimate exes., including
interest on loan funds, and charging an
amount equal to 3 p.c. on average net
book-value of buildings and plant for de-
preciation, and \ p.c. on share and loan
capital combined (including share
premiums) for special purposes. This
last-mentioned account is intended to
absorb special costs, and is not available
for payment of dividends. If, under exist-
ing conditions, the Government con-
sidered 6 p.c. too high a rate of dividend,
then the obvious and straightforward
thing to do was amend the Act in this
respect; instead, it took away the co.’s
automatic right to have the selling-price
of gas reviewed.
During the war and at the request of
the Federal Government, the div. dropped
to 4 p.c., rose to 6 p.c. again for the three
years to end 1947, followed in 1948 by
5 p.c., to pay which reserves were tapped
for £98,826. The collapse of earnings last
term was due to Government delay in
adjusting the selling-price of gas to meet
advancing costs and to the effects of the
mischievous coal strike. From the end
f 1939 to Feb., 1950, increases in the
sellmg-pnce of gas have amounted to
only 30 p.c., whereas the increase in
delivered price of coal was 164 p.c and in
wages 62 p.c.
An increase in the price of gas recom-
mended by a Board of Inquiry in May,
1948, was not approved until eight
months later (Aug., 1949). Rising costs
forced the co. to ask for another lift in
selling-price on Sept. 5 last. This, of
course, meant another inquiry, approval
for which was not granted until Feb. 10,
and the board held its first meeting early
m March, a delay of six months, with
costs rising all the time. Not only has
the co.’s unremitting appeals to the
authorities met with nothing better than
damaging delay, but also, on occasions, a
needless display of bad manners.
Now consider the co.’s revenue and
expenditure figures for the last two years:
, 1948 > r" 1949 n
Per 1000 Per 1000
Units. Units.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Gas.. ..3,175.159 86 0* 3,342,958 38 10
Residuals .. 348,850 3 Hi 406,913 4 9
Meter rents,
etc, .. 36,399 5 33,880 5
Total £3,500,408 40 5 £3,783,751 44 0
Manufae. and
dis. exe5...2,787,963 31 8 3,130,888 36 4i
Other
charges .. 237,824 2 9 238,322 2 9
Interest .. 139,298 1 7 161,952 1 11
Depreciation,
etc. .. 251,149 2 10 255,082 3 0
Total
outgo £3,416,234 38 10 3,786,244 44 0i
The growth of £370,010 in last year’s out-
goings, due mainly to lifts in wages and
the price of coal and other materials, out-
stripped the increase of £223,343 in
revenue by £146,667, the net result being
a loss of £2943 as against a profit of
£144,174 in 1948 ; and that after charging
£81,579 of expenditure (mainly on account
of industrial troubles) against special-
purposes account, reducing it to £116,106.
While such a dispiriting state of affairs
continues, urgent and necessary expansion
of the undertaking cannot be financed by
share capital because the scrip cannot be
sold at a discount. The Government is
thus further undermining the interests of
shareholders by failing to grant the busi-
ness the relief it needs, and must have in
the long-run.
Last year £338,000 of 3£ p.c.
debenture money was gathered, mak-
ing total debenture debt at end 1949
£3,750,000. Since the close of accounts
a further £1,650,000 has been got in on
4 p.c. debentures, of which £750,000 has
been used to redeem maturing 5 p.c.
debentures; the balance will help finance
expansion of the undertaking.
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
t Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 12 p.c. serves, serves.
1941.. 134,112 24,000 90,000 20,112 326,389
14.6 p.c.
1942.. 134,702 24,000 110,000 702 327,091
Tax and insurance reserve brought
back, £37,000 364,091
16 p.c.
1943.. 145,469 24,000 120,000 1,469 365,560
Excess tax provision written back
£109,696 475,256
17.4 p.c.
1944.. 155,796 24,000 131,000 796 476,052
40.5 p.c.
1945.. 122,192 24,000 305,000 269,244
From inner reserves, £74,088 .. 343,332
26.4 p.c.
1946.. 214,367 24,000 198,000 335,699
Prom inner reserves, £99,430 .. 435,129
36.8 p.c.
1947.. 300,683 24,000 276,000 683 435,812
21.6 p.c.
1948.. 323,138 24,000 182,000 141,138 576,949
From tax reserve, £22,381 ~ 599,330
25.3 p.-e.
1949.. 364,716 24,000 190,000 150,716 750,046
Rubber manufacturers made a good get-
away in the transition race, and like most
other producers they have enjoyed an
overflowing order-book in an expanding
post-war market. Profits of this big off-
shoot of an American parent of the same
name have nearly trebled over the last
four years. Sales cover a wide range of
products, but tyres and tubes account
for the bulk of turnover. The next table,
which shows motor-vehicle registrations
in Australia (service vehicles excluded),
is a pointer to what has happened in this
direction;
Registered New Registrations
End Period During Period
f~" —' l c \
Motor Com’cial Motor Oom’eial
Cars. Vehicles. Cars. Vehicles.
1938-39 .. 562,271 258,025 54,107 24,927
1941-42 .. 450,851 250,515 4,005 5,188
1946- .. 550,400 375,646 21,237 16,317
1947- .. 593,077 414,072 42,745 28,709
1948- .. 655,497 452,147 66,471 36,687
N0v.,1949. 690,967 469,938 37,122* 20,403*
* Five months end Nov., 1949.
Truck- and bus-tyres and the shoeing of
tractors and earth-moving and other
heavy vehicles now figure more promin-
ently in production and sales than ever
before. And, because of the rapid growth
of Australian transportation and industry,
further additions to plant are under con-
sideration in order to keep pace with
prospective demand.
Last year demand for all the co.’s
major lines continued to run ahead of
production, and turnover (amount not
stated) notched a new record, despite a
6f-weeks’ shut-down during the coal strike.
After allowing an extra £16,055 for de-
preciation (£120,837) and an additional
£46,000 for taxation (£125,000), the net
result was £41,578 stronger at £364,716.
That covered the pref. div. and a juicy
45.4 p.c. on ord. capital as against 39.8,
36.8, 25.3 and 13.4 p.c. back to 1945. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) the year’s profit was 20.2 p.c.
The div. was lifted from 21.6 p.c. to 25.3
p.c., making total distribution over the
last five years 150.6 p.c. Since the co.
was formed 23 years ago, the ords. have
received divs, averaging 14.8 p.c.
Expanding trade, rising prices and the
need to carry substantial stocks of scarce
materials, especially cotton and rayon
tyre-cords, added £662,082 to the in-
ventory total and £79,937 to book debts.
The year’s net addition to fixed assets
was £43,197:
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Pref. capital . £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. capital . 750,000 750,000 750,000 750,000
Creditors . . 334,805 422,895 508,291 1,299,772
Tax reserve . 561,837 436,349 403,934 224,172
Freeholds,
plant, etc. . 360,543 387,381 464,000 507,197
Stocks . . 1,210,706 1,402,741 1,383,085 2,045,167
Book debts . . 656,929 522,797 682,304 762,243
Cash, etc. .. 54,163 32,137 9,786 9,384
To meet the year’s outlay the co. leant
upon sundry creditors, including the
bank, for an extra £791,481. The im-
provement in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£1,292,850) was £129,900.
The Australian public is interested only
in the well-protected 8 p.c. cum. prefs.,
which at 38s. 6d. yield 4.1 p.c. The
American parent owns the £750,000 of
ord. capital, which includes £250,000 of
bonus scrip, issued in 1934,
J. C. Ludowicl and Son, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Pro St. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940 .. 8,272 8 p.c.= 6344 1928 20,513
1941 .. 12,644 8 „ „ 6344 6300 26,813
To “contingent taxation,” £3652.. 23,161
1942 .. 13,892 8 p.c.= 6344 7548 30,709
1943 .. 10,513 8 „ „ 6344 4169 34,878
1944 .. 12,280 11 „ „ 8723 3557 38,435
194*5 .. 8,453 10 „ „ 7930 523 38,958
Contingency res. disclosed, £6OOO .. 44,958
Assets realisation reserve, £20,999 .. 59,957
1946 .. 17,631 174p.c.t= 13,878 3753 63,710
Share premiums, £4140 .. .. 67,850
1947 .. 11,589 121p.c. = 12,500 66,939
1948 .. 19,478 15 „ ~15,000 4478 71,417
1949 .. 25,715 15 „ ~16,875 8840 80,257
+ Includes 5 p.c. bonus payment.
Two years ago Capital Issues Control
refused the board’s request to make a
bonus-share issue. So shareholders can
thank the Menzies Government, which
abolished the control, for the one-for-
four gift-scrip issue to the ords. on March
22, Moreover, the new shares rank with
the existing 100,000 £1 ords. for a final
p.c. div. in respect of the year to
Dec. 31 last. And now, to finance ex-
pansion of the business, 50,000 new £1
5 p.c. cum. prefs. are to be issued. The
board is not bound to offer any or all of
these to those already on the register.
Paid capital, to which £20,700 (it brought
with it £4140 of share premiums) was
added in May, 1947, will thus become
£175,000 in 50,000 5 p.c. prefs. and
125,000 ords. The pref. div. and 15 p.c.
to the ords. will then call for £21,250, or
£4465 less profit than was claimed last
term.
There is no certainty that the 15 p.c.
div. will be maintained indefinitely. The
business has stepped along in fine style
since the war, and at the moment the
outlook is brighter than it has ever been.
The co. is an old-established tannery
concern which has won a high reputation
as a producer of leather beltings and in-
dustrial leathers and as power-transmis-
sion engineers. The irregularity of profits
over the last five years has been due to a
variety of causes. Industrial disturbances
affected the 1945 figure. In the following
year exports of “merchandise lines handled
in conjunction with ordinary business”
gave profits a nice lift; then sales of these
merchandise lines, which carried wider
margins than the co.’s own products,
eased, and so did earnings. In 1948 the
revival of merchandise sales, in which the
local market took up the .slack in the
export trade, again strengthened net earn-
ings.
Last term sales continued to expand,
due mainly to increased merchandise
turnover’in both Sydney and Melbourne.
On the manufacturing side, where
emergency power units enabled the fac-
tories to work without interruption, there
has been a steady increase in output, and
adjustment of controlled selling-prices
eliminated the loss that rising costs had
brought about on some lines. The
£25,715 (up £623) of profit was 25.7 p.c.
on capital as against 19.4, 11.5, 22.1 and
10.6 p.c. back to 1945. Average distri-
bution over the last six years was 13.5 p.c.,
compared with an average of 7.2 p.c. over
the preceding decade.
Purchase of a property at Adelaide,
where a branch is to be opened, sent
freeholds up by £23,355:
1940. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Capital .. £79,300 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities .. 27,929 75,261 94,553 144,033
Freeholds •. 58,978. 81,368 81,368 104,723
Plant, etc. .. 10,391 22,889 22,634 23,305
Stocks 3 ® 6 !!
Book debts .. 17,918 61,752 68,296 89,185
Cash, etc. .. 5,584 8,374 16,462 948
Stocks increased by £26,791, and book
debts by £20,889, while £49,480 was added
to the outside debt. Introduction of fresh
pref. capital will further strengthen the
position. .
For the scrip, which is fairly tightly
held, buyers recently offered 555. with
sellers standing off at 675. At the middle
figure of 61s. the net price would be
525. Id. after exercising the rights and
allowing for brokerage and the div. The
return at 525. Id. would be 5.9 p.c. so
long as the 15 p.c. div, continues. In-
eluding the pending pref 4
cover is £5 2s -
Australian Co L(4
Not - -‘■UIfW'SS; Mc ,.
“S:; Hill 55 S '•'« «« 4„.
1942.. 22,380 6 2 K I’Jil 9 > 930 265.041
1M3.. ««. SI 5 J«; mini
1944.. 17,330 6.2 Nil I’hl ™’ 587 229 .74 i
Pr i ef - arreara Passed to contingent ’ 6Bl 219,083
liabilities account, £lO6 563
1945.. 15,264 6.2 Nil 6 649 n2 ’ 500
Loss. ,b 49 8 > 615 103,885
1946.. 14,588 Nil Nil Nil
Profit. 11 ~ 118,473
1947.. 13,401 6.2 Nil r> -uo «
Written off capital, £109,165 ’ J n H**
From inner reserves (net), £2556.! I_ 58
1948.. 9,961 6.2 2.5 9 378 raa Reserve »-
1949.. 13,131 6.2 5.5 12.1 m g? ,S*
* Pref. div. arrears included in deficit until 1947
After 20 years in the wilderness and loss
of half their capital, the ords. are in the
picture again with modest returns. Their
prospects of remaining there depend
largely upon the course of seasons, prices
and costs. Encouraging features on the
demand side are that the Argentine is
now in the hard-currency bracket, and
that the British and Australian Govern-
ments are discussing a 15-year meat agree-
ment. And efforts are being made to
have the contract price fixed Tn Au°
tralian currency instead of sterling, or
alternatively for insertion of a clause pro-
tecting Australian exporters against a drop
in the price of sterling.
The co. took over the old Q.M.E. cattle
business in 1915, and the runs are in far-
west and nor’-west of Queensland, where
uncertain rains produce slow-maturing
beasts. At the close of accounts in 1947
there was £113,212 arrears of divs. com-
ing to the prefs., and half the ord. capital
was unrepresented by tangibles in
the books. To clean the slate and open
the way for payments to the ords., 10s.
a share (£109,165) was slashed off ord.
capital, and one-third of the remaining
10s. shares were transferred to those on
the pref. register in return for cancella-
tion of arrears of divs. Paid capital was
thus lowered to £216,414 in 107,249 £1
8 p.c. cum. prefs., reduced to 6.2 p.c.
under the Queensland Mortgagors’ Relief
Act, and 218,330 10s. ords.
The loss in 1946 resulted partly from
industrial and partly from seasonal con-
ditions, which latter have affected the
figures in varying degree since. Last term
there was a better turn-off of beasts,
which killed “reasonably well,” and prices
continued to strengthen. After writing
off £4767 for depreciation and allowing
something for taxation, the profit moved
up by £3710, reaching £13,131, which
covered minimum pref, requirements and
5.0 p.c. on ord. capital as against 3 pc.
for the previous term. The div. was
lifted from 2.5 p.c. to 5.5 p.c. For the
seven years to 1945 net earnings averaged
£20,252.
The financial position improved:
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £325,579 £325,579 £216,414 £216,414
Overdraft .. 61,615 38,675 41,404 *8,217
Creditors .. 24,188 15,085 13,714 -1,
Freeholds and _ », ,oa
leaseholds.. 69.479 70,807 76,899 75,238
Livestock .. 208,113 189,671 188,435 178.884
Stores . • 11,521 10,014 12,118 12,557
Debtors, cash, „ . n ,, <, r 25
etc .. 3,797 3,775 4,041 ». 0360
P.VI. debit 118,473 111,721 ~
The more-or-less liquid surplus (£iAZ,iio)
was £2138 stronger than at the previous
balance. Livestock (down £9598) is taken
into the books on a continmng : to-tradc,
not immediate-market-value, basis, wtuen
is as it should be. ■
Since the close of accounts best rams
for over 30 years have fallen on all the
co.’s properties, and stock is m g
forward condition, which augurs well 1
a better showing at next balance.
The market takes the long-term vi
and prices the ords. at 6s, 6d., S lVin B
immediate return of 8.4 p.c. on a. 5. P- -
div. basis, or 6.1 p.c. ona4 p.c. distribu
tion. The prefs. at 21s. 6d. yield P-£ "
last year’s minimum div. rate an d
doubtful whether betterneedbeepe t
Net tangible cover is 40s. 7d. pret .
10s. 2d. ords.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd.
Dec., Profit. B e £e S' **£***
1943.. 3,482 6 p.c. = 3,150 «32
1945. 7,515 10 ” 5,250 I 615 12,750
Staff bonus, £1750 •• J oos
1946.. 11,129 15 p-c. = 7,874 I 12 55 14 ’ U
Staff bonus, £2OOO •• J __ 12,309
1947.. 4,866 Wipe.- 15 65 18,8-4
1948.. 8,128 I2i „ ~ 6 . 563 12,624
Staff bonus, £l2s ° 7075“ 4537 *‘,161
IdS X
The policy of this 9 °'^[° b u te profit
real-estate business is.to dist t P aS
as they are earned.
earnings therefore foil . property
downs of the section,
market. A new st ° ck ' R , so f pastoral
formed in 1948 to handle sales££
properties, contributed to 1 u . kn0 wn
term, when half a dozen from
holdings were sold. A Q Sydney,
Eldon Chambers, 93MP «:* £65.000
bought about four years ago


hotel metropole
■— Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath*
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY KATES
Single Rooms —
From 8/- per night
Double Rooms—
From 15/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
" METROPOLE ”
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
ifi uriilf
KlMlfcf §n. WritiJn
. 111- sr
IM
%
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt,
The Machinery
People
ds
281 Latrobe St., Melbourne. MU 2321
• Engineers’ Machine Tools. • Portable
Electric Tools « Woodworking Machines.
• Circular and Band Saws. • All type*
Saw Repairs.
sags
gw
An
■'V
-*7
Mi'
MORE MONEY THAN
EVER FLOWS IN,
FOR OUR WOOLJ
Country wisdom, fostered often by
City* gold and enterprise, gave us the
wool industry that, for more than a
hundred years, has been the buttress
of our national life.
At present money is flowing in for
our wool in such volume as to be almost
a national embarrassment. We do well
to. remember that the history of Wool
embodies many a hard lesson on the
road to riches. Droughts have often
followed generous years, and low prices
high prifces.
Staunch the grazier must be, broad in
his outlook, courageous when needs
must. And these are the qualities his
bank must have.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
aD d now worth more, trickled
P^trokon
have pre-
j in this section of real-
eswte activities. The old black-
nrket has disappeared, and
tavers of vacant land are now
,hle to negotiate, mostly to their
satisfaction. A sellers' market
continues for city and submban
shop, factory, office and home
nrooerties, and seems likely to
for some time, while inflationary
Lames have forced prices
Steadily up. still, buyers are be-
coming steadily more dis-
criminating.
A bigger volume of business
and small increase—first for
over 25 years—in commission
charges sent R. and W.’s gross
earnings up by £8463 last term:
earning u F 1948> 1949 .
Commissions, J2(| £34j625 £43,088
Ex/s .’i ■■ 21,866 26,497 30,076
Net profit., ~£ 4,860 £8,128 £12,412
The net result (up £4284) was
736 p.c. on capital as against
15 9, 9.2, 21.2, 14.3 and 3.8 p.c.
back to 1944. The div. was
lifted from 12J p.c. to 15 p.c.,
making average distribution over
the last five years 13 p.c., com-
pared with an average of 7.8 p.c.
for the five preceding years and
9.8 p.c. for the half-dozen years
before that.
There is nothing to worry
about in the finances:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Capital .. £52,500 £52,500 £52,500
Liabilities .. 58,507 40,846 80,070
Freeholds, etc. 05,650 65,650 65,650
Equipment .. 1,075 2,050 2,120
Advances .. 9,257 2,017 2,045
Shares other cos. 2,970 2,976 2,986
Cash, etc. .. 40,724 37,307 81,669
Sundry debtors 4,856 5,607 7,356
Liabilities, largely deposits on
sales, are more than covered by
cash, etc., alone.
Prospects of the 15 p.c. div.
being repeated at next balance
look bright enough at the
moment. After sales at 355. 6d.,
sellers recently asked 41s. 3d.
for the f.-p. 15s. shares. At the
lower figure the return is 6,3 p.c.
so long as the 15 p.c. div, con-
tinues, or, say, 5.2 p.c. on a 12£
p.c. distribution. The cover is
19s. 4d. in net tangibles.
Victorian Gold Nuggets
Nuggets of gold have been
found again at Wedderburn,
about 46 miles as the crow flies
n.-w. of Bendigo (Vic.). A
couple of weeks ago the local
greerigrocer, Bert Smith, un-
earthed a 750 z. nugget, worth
£llOO, from ground alongside
the main street. Another local
inhabitant, Dave Butterick, a re-
tired farmer, digging quietly in
ms backyard, recovered a num-
ber of nuggets (largest 850 z.),
worth in the aggregate nearly
£lO,OOO, over the last 18 months.
Now there is a rush to peg
claims all over, and in the
vicinity of, the town, and every-
body is hopefully scratching the
ground in his backyard.
Sl 1 n J ce the first rush to the
Wedderburn field nearly 100
years ago to just before the war
over 40 nuggets exceeding 50oz,
were obtained from this locality ;
? e lar Best,8 est , weighing 3360 z., was
Inn nd ln ay ’ 1889 - The source
■md mode of occurrence of
DUBgets have lon 8 been,
still are, unsettled questions.
™ c,aim that veins are the
mn.f ’ ° thers conte nd that
S were cradled and
b to fuff size in placer de-
posits. Few of the old reefs at
Wedderburn were worked be-
low water-level. They were
noted for the nuggety patches
of gold obtained from the quartz
veins cutting the blue-and-black
banded slate indicators, which
are associated with iron-oxide
seams. From Shaw’s indicator
1580 oz. was obtained from a
crushing of 55 tons quartz.
The goldfields of Victoria are
officially claimed to have pro-
duced more and larger nuggets
than those of any other country
in the world. The largest, the
“Welcome Stranger,” weighed
25200 z. gross, and was sold for
£10,500. It was found at
Moliagul, near Dunolly, early in
1869, a few inches below the
surface after a cartwheel had
dislodged some of the gravel
covering it, A stone obelisk
now marks the spot. Second-
largest was the 22170 z. “Wel-
come,” discovered about 11
years earlier at Bakery Hill, Bal-
larat, at a depth of 180 ft. The
“Blanche Barkley,” .which
weighed 1743£0z., was found
near Kingower. Three nuggets
of 16190 z., 1117 oz, and 3680 z.
respectively were found close to-
gether in a claim at Canadian
Gully, Ballarat, Dalton’s Flat,
near Canadian Gully, yielded the
“Lady Hotham,” of 11770 z., in
1854. In all, 736 nuggets over
50oz, in weight (12 of them ex-
ceeded lOOOoz.) had been
recorded in Victoria, mostly
from the western half of the
State, up to 1939.
New Guinea Gold Fields, Ltd.
After allowing £6OOO for de-
preciation and charging itself
£ll a ton on 554 tons of inward
freight on the Lae-Wau motor
road (actual cost was £7 4s. a
ton), co. recorded a loss of
£33,610 for the year to Septem-
ber 30 last as against a profit of
£27,503 for the previous term.
Nearly one-third of the loss
represented Federal income tax
(£10,708) on interest received on
deferred payments by the War
Damage Commission. An ap-
peal against this tax has been
lodged. Main factors responsible
for the balance of the loss were
delays and disappointments in
bringing Koranga Joint
Alluviais and the Upper Ridges
to a profitable stage, failure of
some projects to yield a profit
and the steep rise in costs.
At Edie Creek treatment of
36,859 c.y. of 4s, sd. dirt re-
sulted in a loss, owing to heavy
costs, failure of the return water
system and shortage of skilled
labor. At Koranga 223,956 c.y.,
of which 154,370 c.y. were in
the 90s. lOd. category, were
handled for a financial result
little better than evens. Floods,
overburden encroachment and
inevitable delay in paving the
tail race were the troubles. Re-
habilitation of the Kaili and
Renrew projects is under way.
Here buried plant has been sal-
vaged and elevator, pumps and
boxes installed, but the labor
problem is retarding progress.
The most encouraging de-
velopment was at Upper Ridges,
where an ore-body 250 ft. long,
averaging 14.8dwt. gold and
1.30 z. silver over a width of
54in. has been disclosed. Full
width of the ore is up to 9ft. in
places. Good progress has been
made in reopening No. 4 adit,
from which most of the pre-war
ore came, and a 65ft. rise con-
necting No, 6 adit shows an
average gold content of 15dwt.
Reconstruction of the Ridges
mill is under consideration.
If current work makes the
Ridges main lode available ore
reserves will be in the vicinity
of 68,000 tons, averaging
0,440 z. gold. Reclamation of
Anderson’s Creek lode is still in
doubt. Here pre-war reserves
were 14,500 tons, averaging
0.490 z. gold. The Karonga
alluvial reserves at September 30
last were put at 7,341,000 c.y.,
worth Is. sd. a yard with gold
at its present price. At Upper
Kaili 256,600 c.y. is valued at
ss. 6d. a yard, and at Lower
Kaili 353,000 c.y, is expected to
average 3s. 4d. At Renrew re-
serves, not yet definitely deter-
mined, are estimated at 50,000
c.y.
During the year £71,850 was
spent on buildings, plant, etc.
When the books closed co. had
£248,133 in Commonwealth
bonds, cash and book debts to
meet £18,939 coming to sundry
creditors, etc. Paid capital is
£950,371 in 4s. 3d. shares, which
the market prices at Is.. 9d. as
against 2s. a couple of months
ago.
Shale Oil
At long last the
technical advisers to the Gov-
ernment have reported that the
production of oil from shale in
Australia is uneconomic and
that the Standard Oil Co. is not
able to produce 62 million gal-
lons of oil from shale at
Baerami.
The Bulletin has been pub-
lishing these facts as its own
opinion for many years past, and
they have long been obvious to
most shale-oil experts with any
knowledge of Australian condi-
tions.
The Government technical ad-
visers’ opinion was made public
by Senator G. McLeay at Can-
berra on March 22, and he
added: —
The best production that has been
attained at Glen Davis is 2,750,000
gallons of petrol in a year at a cost
of 3s. 2d. a gallon. When you con-
sider we were paying Is. a gallon
before devaluation and Is. 3d. after
devaluation, I have grave doubts
whether the National Oil Co. can do
all it says it can.
It is rather sardonic that this
information was in reply to a
question by Senator Ashley.
In U.S.A. it’s a different
story. The chief of the Oil Shale
Research section of the U.S.
Bureau of Mines recently told
a United Nations committee
that a method of underground
quarrying has been developed
for mining shale and delivering
it to the retorting plant at a cost
of 60 cents a ton (say, ss. sd.
Australian). All-in cost of the
crude oil produced would be be-
low $2.00 a barrel, which is
almost exactly equivalent to 6d.
(Aust.) per imperial gallon.
Although the extent of the
U.S. deposits and the facilities
for mining and refining—includ-
ing labor —are much more favor-
able to low costs than those in
Australia, the figures quoted are
so striking that the American
methods should be studied by
our Government departments
dealing with or affected by the
production of crude oil and
petroleum products from local
shale.
In north-west Colorado the
area underlaid by the richest de-
posits is about 1000 square miles,
and the lower part in these shale
measures yields about 25 im-
perial gallons of crude oil oyer
an unbroken thickness varying
between 70ft. and 110 ft. Total
yield from the block, allowing
for normal mining losses, is esti-
mated at about 3,500,000 million
imperial gallons —and that esti-
mate includes only the richest
part of the deposit.
These figures should be con-
trasted with the Glen Davis
thickness of six feet and less
and a possible total yield of
1000 million gallons, although
the average yield of oil per ton
from the Glen Davis shale as
mined is around 60 gallons as
compared with 25 gallons from
the lower part of the Colorado
shale measures.
Owing to their great thick-
ness the Colorado lower shale
measures are mined in three
benches with a 60ft. roof-span
and pillars 60ft. square staggered
in one direction, thus allowing
the recovery of three-quarters of
the shale. The strength of the
roof stone makes timbering
unnecessary. In these circum-
stances, and taking full advantage
of mechanisation, it is not sur-
prising that the output is about
50 tons per man-shift of total
mine employees. It is still ob-
vious that the corresponding
figure of under four tons' at
Glen Davis could be greatly in-
creased, making allowance for
the more difficult conditions.
As shale crude is a “cracked”
oil and contains a high propor-
tion of olefinic hydrocarbons, it
is not as suitable for the produc-
tion of high-grade petrols as
natural crude petroleum; but it
is estimated that petrol, with an
octane number above that of
the present premium grade sold
in the U.S., will be produced,
for about 16.6 cents per U.S.
gallon, which is equivalent to
Is. 9.5 d. Australian per im-
perial gallon at the ruling rate
of exchange. Petrol of the
quality now marketed here might
possibly be produced at around
the equivalent of Is. 6d. in U.S.
It is inconceivable, however,
that it can be produced in the
near future from Australian
shale under Australian condi-
tions at anything approaching
that figure.
Much of the recent research
which has reduced the cost of
producing from shale in U.S.A.
has been carried out by Socony
Vacuum, which is one of the
Rockefeller Standard Oil group
of companies. In fairness, there-
fore, it should be pointed out
that the “Standard Oil Co.”
named by Senator McLeay has
no affiliations with the Rocke-
feller Standard, but comes from
a very different stable.


Men Who Know Wine.
Know
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
61, YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
(f
iw
yy
mi
W *
m
it
AW*
MOO
333
fi
a*
m
iim
m
blend
express
THE SECRET S IN THE
X736D-1.50
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Dollars from Wool
Britons who have been totting
up the benefits to their dollar
receipts since sterling was de-
preciated in September, haven t
found the results very exciting.
Of course, trade returns are so
far available only for a period
of five months, and the true
comparison (if it were possible)
is between these actual figures
and what would have happened
had sterling not been devalued.
But for the adjustment there
may have been a sharp deteriora-
tion even from the trade results
of the previous six months, for
Britain’s high prices were be-
coming a serious handicap in a
competitive world. In fact, the
statistics available since Sep-
tember probably understate the
gains from devaluation.
In Australia, the exact opposite
seems to apply ; the figures since
September say too much. It will
be recalled that there was some
abstract debate at the time on
whether the cheapened Austra-
lian currency would enable us
to sell so much extra wool to
the US. that the lower dollar
receipts per pound would be
fully covered. It was the
familiar economic question of
“elasticity” applied to American
demand; since our pound was
worth 30 per cent, less in dollars
it would take a proportionately
greater turnover by quantity to
yield the same dollar return,
assuming stable prices.
American woolbuyers them-
selves predicted that on balance
Australia would benefit, and the
figures to date certainly give
countenance to their argument.
In the three months after de-
valuation (October io Decem-
ber, 1949) exports to the U.S. of
greasy and scoured wool com-
bined were 51.2 million pounds,
as against 20 million pounds*in
the corresponding period of
1948, or 11.8 million pounds for
the quarter immediately preced-
ing depreciation.
This is a remarkable trans-
formation, and' as the local
price of wool has also jumped
since September, the rvalue of
recent exports has been even
more remarkable. For the last
quarter of 1949 the value was
£A12.4 million, compared with
£5 million for the same quarter
of 1948, or £2.4 million for
July-September, 1949. Even
allowing for the cheapened cur-
rency, Australia is earning many
more dollars from wool than be-
fore.*
It would be hopelessly wrong,
however, to give all the credit to
the effects of devaluation. The
salient factor has been the change
in America’s own economy since
last September. Throughout the
latter part of 1948 and the first
half of 1949, U.S. business
underwent a sharp recession.
With falling employment and
apprehension lest a major slump
was on the way, there was a
general wave of “de-stocking”
by industry. Not the least
jittery were America’s textile
manufacturers, who. started to
cut purchases of raw materials
to the bare minimum and let
their stocks of wool run down
abnormally. But since the
middle of last year, the trend has
been equally abnormal in the
other direction ; heavy restock-
ing has had to take place —re-
gardless of cost in some cases —
to keep industry fed with
materials.
This contrast in American
moods goes a long way towards
explaining the boom in our wool
sales. The fact that recent U.S.
purchases have been at higher
prices, even in dollar terms, than
a year ago suggests that the
cheapened Australian pound is
not the dominant influence.
That it has been a factor, how-
ever, cannot be doubted.
Although depreciation has
helped to ease Australia’s dollar
problem, it is too early to judge
what the lasting improvement
will be. And, of course, this
“It was terribly hard to skin.”
dollar question is only one
aspect —not the most important
one —of the debate concerning
revaluation.
Industrial Acceptance
Industrial Acceptance Corpor-
ation has hit on an intelligent
solution —but one requiring
skilful future management —for
a problem that faces all hire-
purchase discounters just now.
Their capital requirements are
abnormally great because of the
price-level and big turnovers in
cars, furniture and electrical
goods. To raise all the neces-
sary funds in shares could leave
the companies badly overcapi-
talised when the boom fades.
On the other hand, temporary
accommodation from the banks
has already been stretched past
the limit.
I.A.C. intends to cut the knot
with a mammoth debenture issue
of £4 million. Of this, £l\ mil-
lion (carrying 4| p.c. interest)
will be repayable in three years,
the other £li million (3£ p.c.)
at any time upon three months’
notice from either the borrower
or the lenders ; the second type
of debenture is new to this
country. From the company’s
viewpoint, the whole arrange-
ment looks flexible and econo-
mical.
Prospective debenture-holders
will naturally give a thought to
the question of the short-term
repayment of £4 million, under
all emergencies, by a company
whose shareholder-funds are
only £2 million (but some in-
crease is going to take place
here) and whose assets consist
entirely of debts. Repayment
could take place (1) from idle
funds, if there is an orderly
tapering down of business over
the next three years; (2) from
new debentures or (3) new capi-
tal, if the level of business looks
like being maintained; or (4)
by a combination of these
methods. The economic climate
must partly decide the board’s
attitude. The three-month
debentures should be useful
chess-pieces, and the board will
doubtless adapt its advance
policy in the light of experience.
At December 31, I.A.C.’s
overdraft had almost reached £4
million, the National Bank hav-
ing come in last year to share
the load with E., S. and A. Hire-
purchase accounts had grown by
£2 million to £7,480,000, of
which over one-third was in
N. S. Wales, the rest mainly in
Victoria and Queensland. Two
of the co.’s big N.S.W. connec-
tions are with York Motors and
Bebarfalds, the furnishers.
Papuan Mud
“Lemon” writes: If another
earnest of the determination of
the Australasian Petroleum Co.
to strike any oil which may exist
under its Papuan Permit Area
is required the flying of Mr. O.
B. Rylander from Venezuela to
Papua is one.
Rylander is drilling superin-
S de c n o tto r^ o co„ yVlcuna
world authority on rtf!* 1 aS 4
SB, •• 3
bores going down
S£t ' he Sid “ o£
exhaustion in the heaving mud
stones of Papua that the aSem
of this expert, although it is nnt
.kely to put up thfpiee™
their shares, should be heartem
mg to Oil Search shareholders,
whose board was wise enough to
recognise, in 1938, that the search
for oil in Papua was far too big
a job for a small company.
To date A.P.C. can be quite
i proud of its record in the fight
against heaving mud, as very
mobile formations have been
successfully pierced both at
Hohoro and Upoia, and the rate
of progress in both these wells
was quite satisfactory during
February. This success, how-
ever, has* not fooled them as to
the strength of the enemy, and


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON *
osuixivan
; -v mrti...,
mi!
TRADE MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
>KAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AT SIDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
UITeRPResS A OFFSET PRINTERS
Uthographic printers
typographers
Monotype and linottfi
operators
****** and copper engravers
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
®ARTON manufacturers
STEREOTYPERS
»ULERS, BOOKBINDERS
COLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! ; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
•YITEUS and office equipment
MEAPPINGB and TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
IACKBUL," BRISBANE
* ew Invention Controls
RUPTURE
*° Springs— No Cushions
faring Uj St n mtf ntion « y Dr ' L ' Barrere
tiew fe me thod P nf re Bu , ffe . rerB an entirely
♦0 yearo^J ° f control, the result of
proved mmni C V C i e and improvements,
““ like the
orifice. You P inn ed of flat u P on the
effort and in a n i * once > without
tateatine if iff h ° W the
BAR^L ,0r FREE UTERATURE.
(Def t f fi R ® 0 DISTR IBt;xiON CO.
■L Pt ' 26z) > 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In' Divorce.
TO FRANCES GRACE HELEN CHAL-
LENGER late of Merrylands.—TAKE
NOTICE that REGINALD JACK CHAL-
LENGER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1012 of 1950 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or ex'cuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 14th June 1950
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from LEWIS C. ABIGAIL,
Solicitor, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.—
(1.5,) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
TO KATHLEEN COOPER formerly of 3
Bourke Street Dubbo. —TAKE NOTICE
that FRANK COOPER has filed a Petition
in Divorce Number 2978 of 1949 on the
grounds of your desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years or
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 29th May 1950 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. MeGUINN & McGUINN,
Solicitors, of Dubbo, or their City Agents,
MESSRS. K. D. MANION & CO., Solici-
tors, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
(1.5.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO ALLAN KENNETH FRAZER-ROSS
(also known, as Allan Kenneth Ross).
TAKE NOTICE that your wife LILLIAN
ROSE ROSS has filed a Petition for
Divorce Number 8530 of 1949 (under
South Australian Law) on the ground of
your desertion without reasonable cause
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an Appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 7th day of
June 1950 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MESSRS.
MOLLOY & SCHRADER, Solicitors, of
149 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.— (l.s.)
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
Missing Friend.
TO CHARLOTTE MAUD CARMAN for-
merly of 13 Maddem Grove Burnley
in the State of Victoria but now of
parts unknown married woman. —TAKE
NOTICE that your husband JOSEPH
EDWARD CARMAN has instituted divorce
proceedings against you on the ground
of desertion UNLESS you enter an
Appearance in the Deputy Prothonotary’s
Office of the Supreme Court of Victoria
in Geelong on or before the 2‘6th day of
April 1950 and file an Answer in the
said Office on or before the Bth day of
May 1950 the case may proceed in your
absence. — (1.5.) D. P. F. O’KEEFFE &
CO.. 100 Ryrie Street, Geelong, Solicitors
for the Petitioner.
COMPLETE BANKING SERVICE
AT THE
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
WILL BE PROVIDED BY
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
CORPOP7S
m
m
9 .
IQ 35
An Agency of the Bank will be opened in the Show
Grounds with full banking facilities during the Show for
the convenience of customers and general public.
THE AGENCY WILL BE LOCATED IN
THE MANUFACTURERS HALL AND
OFFICERS OF THE BANK WILL BE IN
ATTENDANCE DAILY.
Country visitors may make arrangements with their local
manager to be issued with travellers cheques cashable
there or to have their own cheques cashed at this Agency.
These and the other usual banking facilities will be
available —and all enquiries will be welcomed by the
officers on duty.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND
NEW ZEALAND
Established 1835.
r«—i .WS& n f Mr. Rylan'der
tie bri S g the co. is determined
P roves * ‘ “il within reach o£
to <?p nfpapua, or to get down
itS uSmck or, failing both of
» bed fo drill io the maximum
these, to an best equip .
Sf and the best advice can
■"[do wish, however, that they
mild riot describe as plastic
S?. driller calls a (not prmt-
v.variety of gumbo. Heay
aW lad tones is not plastic m
IS! Spied sense of the word,
the term has been
£ fbusedjnrecent years.
Corporation scrip
naturally moves the same way
as Clyde Industries, but at a
little distance. At 14s -. the yi^ ld
ic now 4.7 p.c. on the 13 p.c.
Mend established by this years
interim, whereas the current
vicld from Clyde is 5 p.c. iat
crave holds 178,000 Clyde
ordinaries, and that represents
four-fifths of its assets. But its
other assets already seem to be
nulling more than their weight—
they must have contributed one-
third of Palgrave’s total gross
profit last term. These other
assets are an unspecified invest-
ment of about £25,000 and a
holding of £19,899 in four ex-
porting subsidiaries. Perhaps
the tail already has ambitions of
wagging the dog.
« * * *
Grocery and General Mer-
chants has deployed itself still
further afield since last men-
tioned (B. 15/2/’5O). It bought
the Inverell (N.S.W.) store of A.
M. Cansdsll and Co. late in
February, and was possibly in-
terested in the recent purchase
of Farr’s Market at Bondi
Junction. The latter property
appeared in L. J. Hooker’s list
of sales at, £29,000 a few weeks
ago.
♦ * * *
The market was taken by
surprise at the attractive terms
of issue from the Melbourne
Noyes Bros., though plans for
expansion had been common
knowledge since the 1948 general
meeting. After this month’s
announcement, price of the £1
shares jumped from 70s. to 905.,
to settle later around 85s. There
will be a bonus issue of one
new share for each six held and
a par issue of about five for
nine. The upshot is that capital
advances from £lBl,OOO to
£3ll 725, while net reserves will
be left at £117,187. At 85s. the
ex-rights price is about 555. lOd.
—from which the yield would
be 7.1 p.c. if last year’s 20 p.c.
dividend (including bonus) con-
tinues, or 5.4 p.c, on the basic
15 p.c. rate. Twenty per cent,
for a full term would now take
£62,345, an amount cleared by
net’profits in the last two bon-
anza years.
* * * *
Waugh and Josephson, which
opens its new headquarters and
showroom at Alexandria
(Sydney) this week, illustrates
that text on he who humbleth
himself being exalted (some
other newcomers on ’Change
have shown how true the con-
verse is). It’s only nine months
since the board asked the public
to pay a ss. premium on 75,000
new £1 shares, but now the
market’s own premium is
345. 6d.
Buyers are content with a 3.8
p.c. yield for the present. The
first public accounts showed
better profits than the prospectus
estimate —nearly enough to pay
last year’s 10 p.c. dividend three
times over—and this year trade
is benefiting from the new
agency for John Deere farm
equipment, besides the Cater-
pillars. Both are U.S. fran-
chises, but the dollar obstacle is
now eased to some extent by
Steelweld Pty., an interesting
Victorian subsidiary of Indus-
trial Engineering, Ltd., that is
turning out Caterpillar and
Hyster components; however,
dollars are still a vital subject
for W. and J.
So is the question of long-
term markets. With the extra-
ordinary post-war growth of
farm and earth-moving equip-
ment factories in Australia, the
relation between supply and
demand in normal times isn’t
easy to judge. W. and J. is at
least one of the best established.
SIGNPOSTS OF A ROYAL SHOW
By "C.S."
A Royal Show such as the one
scheduled to open in Sydney
next Saturday is a lot more than
the “parade of fat, permed and
polished beasts” sneered at by a
university lecturer who allowed
his feelings on one aspect of
land production to blind him to
the larger truth.
He is, in a different way, as
wide of the mark as the profes-
sional economists who balance
one set of figures against
another, blithely fly in the face
of practical evidence to the
contrary and tell us Australia
couldn’t support more than 25
million people.
That practical evidence is in
the district exhibits in the Agri-
cultural Hall, where in five great
“courts” are displayed fruits
and meats, grains and roots,
fibres, nuts, dairy products,
honey, preserves, timbers, grasses
and so on from Moreton and
'Downs (south-east Queensland),
and the N.S.W. districts of
North Coast and Tablelands,
Central Coast and Tablelands,
Western District and South
Coast and Tablelands.
The Queensland district ex-
hibiting is probably the smallest
in area, yet is more than twice
the area of either Belgium or
Holland, each of which supports
well over 8,000,000 people, and
neither of which has better soil
nor better natural resources,
with the exception of coal, than
any one of the five districts
named.
These are the great signposts
of the Royal Show. What they
clearly point to is that any one
of those five districts could, if
put to it, feed and shelter the
entire population of Australia,
and though they represent the
richest areas of N.S.W., they
leave out all the other States,
the Riverina and north-west
N.S.W. The pessimistic pro-
fessors should spend a day ex-
amining these samples of what
our earth can produce before
putting absurd limits on the
number of people who could live
in Australia.
The question of how many
people Australia could feed,
whether in Australia or else-
where, is now of world import-
ance. For whatever it is worth,
the United Nations Food and
Agriculture Organisation is try-
ing to find out how much food
the world needs and who can
supply it. Many people, whose
conclusions cannot be ignored,
are obviously convinced that
world population is outgrowing
existing world food supplies.
They believe that in the fore-
seeable future man will eat him-
self off the earth. A positive
flood of books and articles on
this theme is coming from the
world’s presses.
It is obvious that the writers
of these books are well aware
of Australia’s probable and
potential part in all this —more
aware of it than are millions of
Australians. Causes of falling
world food supplies are many
and complicated; there is no
question that there is a falling.
Australia can meet whatever
challenge is implicit in this, but
it needs more population and a
general reformation of its land
practices to do it, and it also
needs to stop urbanising its
people.
Sydney Show epitomises what
only a small portion of our soil
can produce and confounds
statements on population limits.
It also indicates that, in spite of
the enormous volume and wealth
of present land production, our
potential land production has
hardly been touched. No
imaginative person could go to
the Show and not be impressed
by, for instance, the tremendous
scope for investment and de-
velopment our agricultural in-
dustries offer in relation to a
growing home population and a
hungry world.
There is another message at
the Show the haphazard
farmer and the “soiLminer”
have no exhibits in it. Their
exhibits lie out in the country
in eroded paddocks, bare hill-
tops, silted-up waterways, dust-
covered railway lines, in unpaid
debts, in Government records
of farm-aid grants and in the
black history of countless stock
that perished for want, not of
feed, but of foresight in storing
feed in good years to keep them
alive in bad.
The Show exhibits come from
the good farmers; they tell
what can be done rather than
what is generally done.
Finally, if one capital city can
draw from its hinterland a dis-
play of rural wealth like this
(and five other capitals annually
stage similar shows), what sort
of a country would it be if 10
or 11 capitals annually housed
a show got up by 10 or 11
Royal Agricultural Societies?
Which is another way of saying
that those five “District Ex-
hibits” could well represent five
States within the Common-
wealth, for along with increased
production and population Aus-
tralia must break up its large
States into smaller ones
wherever the opportunity exists ;
as it now exists in North Queens-
land, northern N.S.W. and
Riverina.


Women’s letters
From Sydney
The Girl Guides roamed wide and free
in the world of art last week. The
galleries at- the Education Department
headquarters were all theirs. Erik
Langker, Douglas Pratt, Squire Morgan
and G. K. Townshend had organised a
show to which members of many Sydney
art societies contributed paintings, and
from the sales the Guides gleaned a fair
percentage. In addition the catalogue-
money was theirs, also the shillings from
the teas which they served on one or two
special afternoons. Opening speech was
made by Mrs. C. P. Johnson, president of
the Y.W.C.A., who was introduced by
State Commissioner Mrs. B. V. Stacy. Both
Mrs. Stacy and vice-president of the G.G.
Lady Julius were in uniform, and there
were uniformed Guides and natty Rangers
everywhere. On the night before the
opening there was a sherry and private-
view get-together. Another entertainment
was a musicale arranged by Charles Philip.
An amusing and clever puppet show (the
puppets entirely made by themselves) was
put on by five Brownie trainers: Beth
Symonds, Doris Best, Kitty Leplastrier,
Millicent Aspinall and Doreen Hockey.
This show lasted from seven till eight
o’clock last Thursday evening. More
than £3OO-worth of art was sold.
Mrs. and Miss Sydney are getting their
hiking boots ready for doing the Show.
Yes, it’s just about Easter again, and all
the grandees of the paddocks are polish-
ing up their hooves and getting the coats
well brushed up in readiness to dazzle the
city dweller. Randwick lawns are being
barbered for the opening of the A.J.C.
meeting. There is a subdued expectancy
about the Union Club, for on Wednesday,
April 12, members will be home to the
ladies. Late on the same afternoon the
Air Officer Commanding, Air Vice-
Marshal McCauley, and officers of
Headquarters, Eastern Area, R.A.A.F.,
are holding a garden-party in the grounds
of the Officers’ Mess at Richmond. .
Colonel Spain and daughter Mrs. H. J.
Russell are giving an au-revoir lunch-
party to Dr. and Mrs. Diethelm and Miss
Kathleen Cobcroft, who are among this
year’s many travellers from Australia.
The party will be at the R.S.Y.S. club-
house, Kirribilli Point—and there’s no
lovelier spot in Sydney at midday.
Mrs. Ron Baker, who was Pat Whyte,
drops a note from Honiara in the British
Solomon Islands about her recent wed-
ding. Pat, who is a daughter of Major
C. A. Whyte, secretary of the South
African Soldiers’ Association, writes;
We had a lovely wedding, and everybody
here did everything possible to make it a
great occasion for us. My sister sent me
a frock—a pink bridal gown—and Dad sent
me a cake by plane, and everything went
without a hitch. The Bishop made arrange-
ments for the Rev. Edwards to be here in
case he could not get back from his tour
in time, which did happen, so the Rev.
Edwards conducted the ceremony and gave
us a lovely service.
Pat’s job is communications-engineer in
the employ of the British Government.
Her headquarters are at Honiara in the
British Solomons. This is a commercial
station handling telegrams, shipping, air-
craft and inter-island communications.
At the opening of Betty Miller’s exhibi-
tion of paintings in the Grosvenor Gal-
leries the other day many of the company
came from Parramatta, the artist’s home-
town, and even from Orange. The show
was opened by Mrs. Rutherford, of
Orange, and there were a number of
artists doing the rounds, among them
Isabel Huntley. Betty clothed her tall
slim figure ifi deep delphinium-blue
crepes. Her cloche hat was black and
off-the-face. Noted was Mrs. M. Darling’s
hat. It was a brimmed sailor, in black
satin straw, worn straight over the brow.
Mrs. Cecil Smith, of Cronulla, Mrs.
Arthur Charteris, and Mrs. Derek Burnell
were among admirers of such widely
different works as Napier-avenue, Lon-
don, and the King’s School, from Parra-
matta Park.
Back to Sydney in Aorangi after a
strenuous but gay four years in Washing-
ton came Major-General and Mrs. Chap-
man and daughter Betty. Major-General
Chapman was head of the Australian
Military Mission in Washington, and
Betty a 'cipher-officer in the Australian
Embassy. Over there cocktail-parties
of great size and official dinner-
parties followed one another non-
stop. It sounds like the life led
by the characters in one of Leslie
Ford’s Washington-set mysteries—without
the corpses, of course, unless you count
dead marines. Entertaining in Washing-
ton is very expensive. The Chap-
mans did most of theirs in their own
home, Mrs. Chapman and Betty getting
up at the crack of dawn on the day of
one of their parties to make the savories.
Committee meetings for the Journalists’
Ball do not work according to conven-
tional pattern. Those plotting the big
night gather in the Press Club and sit
about a long narrow table. At the head
sits Lady Anderson, this year’s president.
Near her sit Mrs. Alec Wilkie and Mrs.
Frank Davenport, while Abbey Clancy
takes more shorthand notes to the minute
than anyone outside a Hansard reporter.
Last week Etta Cowan suggested a beauti-
ful-arm-and-hand contest to replace the
old tried favorite the pretty-ankle compe-
tition. One lady thought that attractive
knees might have a look-in. However,
the ankles still run hot favorite. There
will be a table-decoration contest, spot
dances, lucky-dips, mostly for bottle
babies. There will be fancy dress —from
Dickens to what-the-Dickens characters.
The Troc. on Thursday, April 6, will
house the razzle-dazzle.
Irish pianist Margaret Stevenson, who
was born in the north, lived in the south
of that distressful country and studied her
art entirely in England, has recently come
to Sydney from the New Hebrides. There
her husband (in private life Margaret is
Mrs. C. L. Barrow) is British District
Agent. Keeping a grand-piano in trim in
the New Hebrides is a bit'of a responsi-
bility, so the pianist always had a hurri-
cane-lamp going inside hers to keep out
the damp. Mrs. Barrow, who is visiting
Sydney with two of her small children,
expects to return to Ireland in June. She
will be heard in a Bach and Beethoven
recital through the A.B.C. early in April.
Norton Trevaire photograph.
Sam Hughes’s production of “Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” will make some
of the critics waggle an eyebrow. This
is the next S.U.D.S. presentation, and the
Great Hall of the University will be the
scene of action. Sam remembers that in
Shakspeare’s time ladies were always
gents, and his Titania is a small boy from
Barker College. He is matched with a
young Oberon from the same school.
Sam visualises the great William as an
Elizabethan man of the world just as
much as he was a poet. Also Moth, Cob-
web, Pease-blossom, Mustard-seed and
the fairy company have a few surprises
in store for most of us who have regarded
them through a moonbeam and stardust
haze. Anyway, whether you agree or
not The Dream should be fun.
A little bit of pageantry will flash be-
fore the gaze at the Red Cross Ball on
April 3. This will be at the Trocadero,
and to greet the arrival of the Governor
and Mrs. Northcott a guard-of-honor
will be formed by the Royal Artillery in
full ceremonial uniform. Mrs. David
Roper is president of the ball committee,
and Mrs. Ken Pointing, Mrs, Victor
Coppleson, the wives of Lieut.-General
Berryman, Air Vice-Marshal McCauley
and Admiral Moore, Mrs. Alan Waters,
Mrs. A. M. Harrison and Mrs. Frank
D unworth are members of the commit-
tee. There will be a table-decoration
competition, and the judges will be
Donna Marisa del Balzo, Strella Wilson
and Mrs. Gregory Blaxland. Mat Mattox
will produce the floor show, stars of
which will be members of “Oklahoma!”
Dorothy Dey, president of the Fort-
street Old Girls’ Union, is already busy
over arrangements for the Fort-street Ball,
which will be held in the Troc. on May
4 This is run by the Old Boys’ Union
and the Old Girls’ Union, and is always
a whale of a success. External Affairs
Minister Percy Spender and Mrs. Speilder
will receive this year’s debs. President of
the ball committee is Mrs. Herwig, Mar-
garet Miller the secretary; Norman
Porter is keeper of the cash. Dorothy
succeeds Miss Bannan of the Teachers’
College as president of the O.G.U. Miss
Bannan is off on a world tour in May.
From Melbourne
At the first-night at His Majesty’s of
The Firm’s latest Gilsullivan offering,
“Patience,” the Governor’s daughter,
Jeanette Brooks, was accompanied by
Heather, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. G.
Menzies. They wore contrasting coats ;
Jeanette in white lamb. Heather in one of
red wool. Mrs. Frank Tait wore black
tulle, with tiny mirrors trimming the low-
cut bodice. Mrs. Roberts, mother of
Patience (Helen Roberts), wore a lime-
green hip-length coat of brocade over a
slimly-cut black frock. Mrs. Ivan
Menzies’s black taffetas had a matching
cape. A taffeta * ballerina checked in
brown made smart effect for Mrs. Don
O’Donnell. ' Elizabeth Lewis and Margot
Hain were in short black ensembles.
Mrs. Jim Tait’s flowing frock was of
misty-blue crepe. Tora Beckingsale wore
a Chinese-red quilted taffeta coat over a
black tulle, white-patterned gown. Slate-
blue taffetas striped in rose-pink were the
tasteful choice of Moira Rankine.
The Vice-Chancellor of the University,
Sir John Medley, and Lady Medley, will
be guests-of-honbr at the second of the
three Commencement Balls, which will
bo in cabaret style and will be held at St.
Kilda Town Hall, First of the series
will be on Friday, March 31, the second
on April 5, and the final one on April
14. Organisers are Judy Betheras, Bryan
Treyvand and Max Howell.
For her wedding at St. Patrick’s
Cathedral Veronica, younger daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. V. Linehan, of Toorak,
wore a gown of white organza. The
bouffant skirt and tight bodice with its
square neckline and short sleeves had
bands of fine white lace. Tier long tulle
veil was held with a spray of lily-of-the-
valley, and she carried a trail of
stephanotis. The bridesmaids were the
bride’s sister Margaret, Pamela Knox,
Joy Donoghue and Geraldine Carroll.
Their bouffant frocks of ciel-blue
organza had tucking on the skirts and
puff-sleeved bodices. They wore little
blue lace caps and carried bouquets of
pink roses and delphinium blooms. Geoff
Brown, younger son of Mr. and Mrs.
R. T. Brown, of Baulkham Hills (N.S.W.),
was the bridegroom. He had fellow-
international tennis-player Colin Long as
his best man.
At the reception at Menzies’ Mrs.
Linehan received the guests in a navy
jacket-suit and an osprey-trimmed small
navy velvet hat. The ’groom’s mother
wore a navy ensemble and a hat with
cherry satin trimming. Lady Knox wore
with her black jacket a black-and-grey-
pleated skirt; white ospreys embel-
lished her black hat. Mrs. Norman
Strange chose a frock of black sheer and
a small hat of black panne velvet. Mrs.
Henry Steel topped with a white straw hat
her blue frock, >lrs. Gordon Rennick’s
florals had a deep-wine coat for covering.
Among the bride’s old school-friends
were Mrs. Peter Condon, in a lime-green
grosgrain hat with a lightweight wool
coat in the same toning; Pat Cahill,
whose pale-olive-green suit was worn with
a natural straw cloche hat trimmed with
lily-of-the-valley ; Carmel Lynch, wearing
a navy frock and white cloche hat, and
Judith Silk, who contrasted her dark-
green velvet coat with a cloche hat of
winter-white felt trimmed with a gold
cord.
Architect John Mockridge is leaving in
Mooltan next month in search of inspira-
tion, and his partners, Ross Stable and
George Mitchell, gave a party in his
honor. Mrs. Stable received in a black
frock and pink shantung jacket. Mrs.
Dick Noone was in a parchment-toned
\2 pe c r ° ek ,. and short w hite-lamb jack*
Mfs. Sam Benwell’s powder-blue cJS
were touched up»with naw tr;™ repes
Mrs. lan Potter'? bXwy ScL ST*.
coffee-toned lace. Was of
At the party given by James and Janet
Bowen Pam in the Matthew Lang cella
-naturally the subject of wine loomed
large in the doings-the hostess received
the guests m a frock of mist-blue angora
which had a portrait neckline; her sS
crownless hat was trimmed with feathe
to match her frock. Madame Reshid
Beys full-skirted suit was finely strined
m aqua-blue and burgundy ; her small
toning hat had a double brim turned
back from the face. Mrs. Keith Sitlino
ton s black suit was embellished with eold
scatter-pins ; her hat was a winter-white
felt. Mrs. Richard Cresswell wore a
ruby-red wool coat over a black frock
Mrs W K. Burnside’s ballerina frock was
of black ripple-taffeta. Dr. D. Duller
Murphy had red ospreys as trimming f or
the black hat she wore with her bla~k
ensemble. Mrs. lan Miller carried a
muff of leopard-skin to match the cao
she wore with a trim black suit. Smart
in navy suit and white-wing-trimmed
navy hat, Mrs. V. Lambert was accom-
panied by her daughter, Mrs. Bruce
Ronald, whose beige jacket-suit was worn
with a beige hat with a brown feather
mount. ■ Mrs. G. W. Hyden’s grey frock
was worn under ai junior navy coat; her
small dove-grey hat had trimmings of
grey satin ribbon. A tweed suit in a
mixture of brown and gold was Paddy
Wilkinson’s choice. A black picture-hat
carrying pink roses topped Mrs. Dare
Holyman’s black crepe frock.
The fashion show put on by the young
and clever Australian designer Florence
Raymond made much of the cocktail- and
evening-models. From gold lame
Florence moulded a cocktail-suit which
had a slim skirt and a long jacket with
huge pockets. This was covered with a
swinging coat of green velvet fashioned
with a double yoke, and pockets and
collar trimmed with fur. The accompany-
ing cocktail hat of gold lame had similar
fur trimming. One white chiffon gown
over taffeta had a halter neckline em-
broidered in a design of blue beads and
pearls. Gold leaves were scattered across
the surface of a heavy white faille gown,
which was draped up to the waistline at
one side. The bodice was tightly fitted
and strapless. Very lovely was a dinner-
gown of grey Chantilly lace made with
long tight-fitting sleeves and a high neck-
line. Glittering sequins outlined thelacey
pattern of the bodice. A short black
evening gown, complete with its little
theatre hat, was made of black chiffon;
the skirt had a side-drape, and an up-
standing collar of black Chantilly lace
finished the low-cut bodice.
White tulle over taffeta and trimmed
with clusters of jet beads was an out-
standing model shown, and jet beads
were also used to trim a pastel-blue
slipper-satin gown. A fairy-like frod
was fashioned of gold, spangled tulle
featuring the ballerina length and finished
with a fluffy white tulle bow at the side.
A black French lace bodice and overskirt
mounted on bouffant white tulle was
attractive, and a similar model was done
in pink tulle and matching pink lace.
Black lace medallions were inserted into
a frock of bouffant cream lace, and veil-
ing the shoulders was a cream lace sto e,
Mrs. Norman Lynch will be guest-o [ -
honor at many farewell-parties betor
leaving with her husband for England
the continent. Main objective of the tr t
abroad is to visit their son Paul, who
studying in Switzerland. The first hosJ *
with a luncheon at Menzies’, was _
Silk, who wore a wide French-blue str
hat swathed in matching chiffon .
black faille suit. Mrs. Lynchs
frock was worn under a w
black faille coat; her small black J
was finished with gold bobble tr
Mrs. Royden Honeyman added to .
beige suit a matching draped hat
with wings. Gold buttons s h on ?. sU jt;
S. Aarons’s French-blue g abard BiggS
her black hat flew ospreys. Mrs. W
teamed a black suit and dove-grey
Mrs. Richard Dixon wore J &
ensemble, and Daphne K tier
French-blue melusine hat
Molyneux coat, t h e r
Mrs. V. L. Jackson gave a party a en .
South Yarra home to announce
eagement of her daughter, E w'h°
Irene, to Douglas Bowden BeW is
spent her schooldays at L age-
wearing a diamond-and-sapp
ment ring. Her f nC |; o ck Exchange' 5
burnian, and one of the Stock . oscar
youngest members, is the son J 0 t
Bowdens, of Joorak. IF V ce a nd
black French crepe had he b Be r
slim skirt cut on draped be jge
mother teamed a bodice ° p ßoW deo s
crepe with a black skirt. ba d a
slim-fitting greige -crepe
beaded bodice.


Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
Rnbh^ D I AN CUPPER” Ready
oa vtT' f Flne Cut Blended
p?ck« To^Q s a l ,ty Leaf - In 2oz -
Priced 22/- per lb.’ lb ‘ ° r lo ° Se
tor A^ulti'iF lne Cut Rea( Jy Rubbed
Packf Pw Ctl i > S.? nd Madness, in 2oz.
Priced* kv- e per / ib Per Pl * Ck ’ ° r 10036
*Mutum7°iu;” J, hat Fine Old Well
even Mixture that is now
P« lb %ooie aU eVer ‘ Priced 20/ ‘
liemcmber WINSTONS. lf ß good.
w >|te: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
801 01 7^ Va “ ey PO - Bris,Ja ne.
W ITH ORDER.
prompt despatch.
• pedal Quotes Retailers For Orders
«Hbs. or Over.
blotch?
mh SKIN
g marred by spots,
"y rasbes and pimples is
Cn *u. qu,cW y cleared by
lt J
S^Xn health. Always
meat* Cnticura Oint-
cu ts K the h ° Use - 000(1 fOT
of tK *l ruises and sores. One
i oh? lamous trio-Cuticura
Ointment. Soap and
Talcum Powder. Sl ,
A coo-ee from
MADGE ELLIOTT,
famous Australian stage star
now in London, who says;
“Thanks for sending
me all that
Small’s Club
Chocolate,
It was
wonderful
to hear it|
“.SNAP" again,”
m
m
Im.
m
m
%
Smalls
make
Great Gh
"Last time I was home in Australia,”
Madge continues in her air-mail letter, "it
was a thrill to enjoy all the marvellous good
things to dat! But most of all I remember
that wonderful chocolate —and how loudly
it snapped! I can well believe that the
louder the snap the better the chocolate
and Small’s Club Chocolate breaks
with such a clear, loud SNAP every time.
SUNDRY SHOWS
MORE ORBAN
Fully to sympathise with the
Australian paintings of Desi-
derius Orban, which, continuing
ihe exhibition of 50 years of his
work, have replaced his Euro-
pean pictures at David Jones s
Gallery, Sydney, you have to go
a long way back in time: far
back from the intimate, deeply
penetrating visionary realism
with which Lance Solomon s art
moves among the sunlit cor-
ridors of the bush; past the
gum-trees of Heysen standing in
lovely clarity in his golden land
of afternoon; away from the
morning light or rolling blue
ranges of Gruner and the blaz-
ing noons of Streeton ; into the
country of mist and shadow
where Tom Roberts and Walter
Withers first began to realise that
the continent of Australia dif-
fered in appearance from the
continent of Europe; and
beyond that to the days of
Conrad Martens, when the
painters saw Australia through
European eyes and painted what
seems to us today a foreign
country.
Under central European influ-
ences instead of those of the
classic landscapists, Orban’s style
is vastly different from that of
Martens; but, as a Hungarian
painter who found his way to
Sydney, he faced precisely the
same dilemma as Martens, and,
broadly speaking, he has failed
in the same way to acclimatise
himself. This incredibly dingy
Harbor Bridge, these masses of
heavy foliage, these dark forests
where the sun never shines, these
murky waters and heavy grey
skies—they are not Australia but
Australia painted in the terms of
a European convention.
It is true, in a sense, that
Gruner and Streeton and Hilder
also painted Australia in terms
of a European convention: that
of the Impressionists. But Im-
pressionism began when Con-
stable discovered that shadows
were blue: it was the discovery
of light: the revelation of an
additional truth about nature.
So that it is more accurate to
say, not that the Impressionists
invented a new convention but
that they came nearer to reveal-
ing the total truth about the
landscape; a discovery which
exactly parallels the rediscovery
of nature by Wordsworth when
the true face of things had been
masked under the classic con-
ventions of Gray and Pope.
And it was not so much an Im-
pressionist convention that Tom
Roberts handed on to the great
Australian landscapists as, simply,
a way of approaching total
truth; not a way of painting
France but a way of painting
Australia.
The art of Conrad Martens, if
one disregards its source in the
classic convention, was, at best, a
limited truth ; he expressed an
aspect of Australia. Probably it
is most valued today for its
historical interest; yet it could
also be valued for this limited
truth. And perhaps—though
little trace of personality can be
detected in it —it could be valued
as a personal interpretation of
the Australian scene, an expres-
sion of the mind of the artist.
Certainly it is to be valued,
abstractly, as pure art, for its
harmonious and deeply glowing
color, its graceful proportions.
And Orban’s art may similarly
be appreciated: for its limited
truth, for its strong personal
quality, for its occasional sombre
beauty.
Only in a couple of oil paint-
ings of Kiama, vague and sloppy
pieces of work, does he make
much attempt —as far as this
exhibition shows—to cope with
the problems of Australian light.
It is his pastels that dominate
the walls, and these are all
sombre. The “Nepean River”
looks as if it should be flowing,
not through Europe, indeed, but
through the darkest jungles of
New Guinea; his “Gum-trees”
might be pines in the Black
Forest; his “Road to the Sea”
does not wind through Aus-
tralian light but through a weight
of pastel; his “Camden,” where
the sky is the same heavy grey-
blue as the wall under the dark-
green trees, is very different from
the Camden dancing with sun-
light in Hugh McCrae’s poetry.
Yet all these are beautiful works
in their dark, melancholy way ;
rich, smooth, solid, and with
enough feeling for the shadows
and dark secrets of the earth, if
not for its light, to give them
life.
The dramatic quality of vivid
color striking out of darkness,
which characterised the best of
Orban’s European paintings, is
missing among the Australian
works. There is nothing like his
Hungarian village church. Per-
haps simply because of the limi-
tations of pastel as a medium,
the sudden flashes of power have
been subdued into a general
richness. As before, the lower
level of his work is dingy or oily ;
the upper level, if less striking, is
more harmonious. Coming away
from his paintings, and recalling
the best of them, you feel you
have been looking at ferns grow-
ing in a cave. They can take a
place only in an odd corner of
the Australian landscape tradi-
tion, but at least they did not
wither when they were trans-
planted. OrUan took the pre-
caution of bringing their cave
with them.
The exhibition by the Progres-
sive Groui> at the Freeman
Studios, 3fB George-street, Syd-
ney, is chiefly interesting because
it introduces a new gallery, con-
nected with a photographic
business. Neither too large nor
too small, with an excellent
light, only one floor above
street-level and opposite Wyn-
yard Station, it is an ideal room
for small one-man shows. The
Progressive Group, which says
it has been in existence two
years; but has “avoided prema-
ture publicity,” is also new, but
with nothing particularly dis-
tinctive about it except, perhaps,
that fsince it shows landscapes
from Tarakan, Broome and Cen-
tralia, as well as the inevitable
Sydney slums, its members may
have some broad Australian
ideal at the back of their minds.
While nothing *on view goes
much beyond student quality, one
may note as at least promising
works Lionel Taprell’s slightly
too dry watercolors, lima Con-
ley’s pink and blue hydrangeas,
Reuben Gibson’s “Margy Hill,
Tarakan” and Montague Mc-
Donald’s “Storm and Scrub-
land” and “Pearling Lugger,
Broome.”
* * * *
Betty Miller, whose land-
scapes are at Sydney Grosvenor
Galleries, is an Australian who
has lived abroad for some years,
painting in England, Scotland,
Holland, France and Switzer-
land. Her oils are pleasant
enough, but all on the surface,
concerned with local color,
thickly laid on, rather than with
the subtleties of light, contour
and mood in the landscape ; they
are a kind of facile generalisa-
tion. In a group of small water-
colors of boats and water and
bridges there is a glimmer of
luminosity, a touch of deeper
and fresher feeling.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The Australian
Wafercolor Institute, whose
habitat is Sydney, is showing at
Tye’s Gallery, Melbourne. Max
Ragless’s “Blue Cottage” has
some quality of light in it, and
the blue roof is effective, but
there is a certain falsity about
the contrasts. Rah Fizelle’s nude
(No. 15) has a fleshiness about
it and gives the texture of its
subject-matter, which is exactly
what Eric Thake doesn’t give in
his “Ant-hill Women.” Yvonne
du Moulin displays some obser-
vation in “Old Cottage, Carling-
ford, N.5.W.,” and Enid Cam-
bridge’s “Village Street” suggests
air, as does Robert CampbelPs
“Storm Approaching at Even-
ing.” “The Calm” of Ronald
Steuart keeps within the limita-
tions of the medium, arid Jean
Isherwood makes an interesting
topographical sketch in “Whale
Beach.”
* * * *
There is a slight touch of
prosiness about the still-life, por-
traits and landscapes of Bertram
Bryning at the Athenaeum, Mel-
bourne. He has seen what the
average man sees, but recorded
it with a skill the average man
hasn’t. So he tends only to get
the superficial, though in two
misty waterscapes things look
better —but perhaps Nature did
that by softening his edges for
him. A self-portrait with palette
and brushes is an excellent like-
ness, but the study of a woman
in a striped dress has much more
feeling.
* * * *
A mixed lot of prints at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries in-
cludes Turner’s magnificent bon-
fire of the House of Parliament,
a Modigliani with long neck and
eyes askew, a pleasant little
Picasso of a boy with a horse
and one of his chopped-up in-
teriors, some nicely-colored
X-ray views of women by
Henry Moore, bric-a-brac from
Braque, farmhouses by Van
Gogh and a Blake illustration to
Dante. Since the griffin in the
latter really looks like an indig-
nant ducky hen, the print is
chiefly interesting as showing
how far short of vision Blake
could’fall. In his poems like
“Piping down the valleys wild”
or “Tyger, Tyger,” there is in-
deed the feeling of more than
mortal joy or ferocity ; but in
this illustration there is only a
play of queer fancy, perilously
close to the ludicrous, redeemed
by the aesthetic qualities of color
and design.
* * * *
Allan A. Martin’s exhibition
of oils at KozminskVs, M6l-
bourne, is a typical student’s
first show. He has obviously
been taught a method and has
caught on, but his gleaming
saucepans and tomatoes and old
coffee-pots and so forth look al-
together too true to be good, like
technicolor in all its grandeur.
He is trying to say more about
his subject after two years than
a master would attempt after
twenty. The quality of his ob-
servation is indicated in his
landscapes, and it is not as yet
very extensive.
* * * *
The Victorian Artists’ annual
show of sketches and water-
colors at bargain prices ranging
from 7s. 6d. to three guineas was
much appreciated by art-lovers
oppressed by the rising cost of
living. They could get for a few
shillings a picture which, for all
they know, might turn out 50 or
100 years hence to have been the
work of a master, or, on the
other hand, to be of no signifi-
cance whatever. Great official
art institutions like the Felton
Bequest aren’t in this fortunate
position. When they buy a con-
temporary picture they have to
buy in the fashionable market
where the prices can be any-
thing up to a thousand guineas,
with not the slightest certainty
that in 50 years’ time it won’t
turn out that the purchase
wasn’t worth fivepence halfpenny
in terms of aesthetic value. A
case in point is the recent pur-
chase for 120 guineas of a Sid-
ney Nolan. In terms of
aesthetic worth it isn’t one whit
better than dozens of the pic-
tures in the Victorian show—
where some Melbourne street-
scenes by Lesley Sinclair, a
woman artist of real distinction,
stand out.
* * * *
Contemporary Persian minia-
tures are showing in a special ex-
hibition this week at the N. S.
Wales National Gallery. The 78
paintings on ivory are from the
collection of Mr. John Nad-
jarian.
**:!!*
The N. S. Wales National
Gallery has for so long been in-
accessible to all except hikers,
mountaineers and Domain-
dossers that it is worth record-
ing here that Transport Com-
missioner Winsor, at the prayer
of Education Minister Heffron,
has started a Sunday-afternodn
bus service to it, running every
half-hour from Wynyard.' A
service also runs from Wynyard
at lunch-time on week-days, but
this is more use to sandwich-
lovers than art-lovers. Why
doesn’t Mr. Winsor divert either
the Elizabeth Bay or Woolloo-
mooloo buses to run regularly
past the Gallery, week-days as
well as Sundays?
* * * *
Out of 131 paintings, scruti-
nised with difficulty at a com-
bined show for the benefit of the
N. S. Wales Girl Guides,
memory preserves chiefly a
beautiful light-green willow
floating over a stream by G.
K. Townshend, a “Farmyard”
by Robert Johnson which
had the homely, sunny quality
which is Johnson at his best,
and a flowerpiece by Hayward
Veal with an unusually pleasant
arrangement of colors. There
were also Leonard Long’s “Rain
in the Hills,” Harry Wann’s “At
the Moorings,” Albert Zeck’s
“Hyde Park,” K. Murray’s
“Ingleburn Scene,” Erik Lang-
ker’s “Landscape,” Douglas
Pratt’s pencil-drawing l “New
England Pastoral” and Ldnce
Solomon’s “Sea .Sketch,” all
minor landscapes of some
quality. And, for no particular
reason except that the objects
which artists put into still-lifes
are always intriguing, one re-
members that Clif Peir’s “Apples
and Things” included, among the
“things,” the sum of 2s. 2d. , . .


FIVE FOR A QUORUM
BY M.G.VINCENT
THE D.F.U. meeting was held on the
third Tuesday of each month, and
the time of commencement was
officially 2.30 p.m. However, the
secretary rarely started reading the
minutes before 3.30 p.m., as the four old
faithfuls who turned up every time were
kept kicking their heels until Sid Layton
arrived.
Sid Layton was a short, fat man. His
pepper-and-salt trousers always gaped a
little at the unbuttoned waistband so that
his white crumpled shirt came adrift, and
had to be stuffed back with a pudgy, hairy
hand. This restoring of the shirt had be-
come such a subconscious action that he
often drew in his paunch and attended to
the shirt whilst talking to women, thereby
increasing their dislike of him. His blue
serge coat looked what it was, a relic of
his youth, when he had walked proudly
before the Town Band, belting thunder
out of the big drum. The pupils of his
brown eyes seemed to have a life of their
own,•slipping about in the muddy irises
like tadpoles in a brackish pool; big tufts
*f grey hair grew in his ears and nostrils,
somewhat as moss grows in the crannies
of a tree: but eyes and hair were almost
inconspicuous in the round, flaccid face,
which was creased while he was in town
by a perpetually vacuous and false good
humor.
The men of the district accepted him
as men do, remembering that he had been
at Gallipoli, that he had been good with
his fists, that he had made the Town Band
seem twice as big as it really was, and
then turning their minds to more pleasant
subjects. But the women hated him, and
strengthened their disgust by dwelling on
his objectionable ways. They were
especially voluble when Mrs, Service, the
bootmaker’s wife, reported that on the
third Tuesday in February she had seen
with her own eyes, from the small back
window in her husband’s shop, the odious
man making an attempt to kiss Nonie
Sanderson, who w&s on her way to the
Agricultural Hall to report the D.F.U.
meeting. “And very pleased I was to
see her land him a good slap right across
those slippery eyes of his. It’ll give him
something to think about for a Jong
time,” she concluded.
SID LAYTON was still suffering the
smart of that slap a month later, and
as he jogged into town on his old mare
he thought, “We used to get along all
right till Ray Venables went off his rocker
and put her on reporting. She’s nothing
but a confounded embarrassment. A man
can’t speak out any more. Women are
all right in their place, and that isn’t at a
men’s meeting. Some fellow should pin
her down and keep her occupied with a
few kids.”
This thought brought to him another
unpleasant memory of a recent edict by
his wife. A deep gloom settled on him,
and he allowed his face to sag into folds
like an emptying balloon. “God, what’s
the world coming to?” he muttered. “It’s
a woman’s world. A blasted world for
blasted women.”
He stared moodily down the dusty
road, and saw nothing to brighten him.
The land was parched, and the red dust
lay like paint on the grass and the brittle-
leaved trees. “A bloke could browse
around in comfort one time, but now
they’re all at me for being a few minutes
late. Well, let them see if they can get a
quorum without me, A man gives up an
afternoon for the good of the community
and what does he get in return but
abuse?
“A fellow puts up with the wife’s
moaning about everything that’s got to
be done, bolts down a bite of lunch and
races into town and doesn’t even get a
syllable of thanks. Old Watson looks
down his long nose that he thinks he’s got
from some English duke and says: ‘Only
an hour late today. How did you manage
it!’ Him and his Carlyle and Wells.
That’s all he wants to get home to. So
as he can stand up and spout a lot of tripe
at the next Dairy meeting. What’s
Carlyle got to do with butter prices?
“And Jimmy Jenkins; he’s not losing
any bread and butter with that dumbell
Harper doing all the dirty work
for him and Jenkins getting all the kudos.
And Smithers! What a lousy secretary he
is. Too lazy to write his own minutes
and cuts them out of the Rag. That’s
why he kids to that Sanderson tabby,
rolling those mournful eyes of his at her
like a sick spaniel.
“And old Daniels; he’s the worst
of the lot. You’d think he’d be too old
to even get a gleam in his eye. Well,
they needn’t try to lay down the law to
me today. I’ve had enough from Muriel
without them starting in on me. I’ve got
a few odds and ends to attend to, and I’m
doing them, and to hell with her high-and-
mighty airs about being punctual. Why
can’t she stay down in that coop of an
office with the stinking paste-pot and
write up some fashion-notes or some
other twaddle? She thinks old Watson’s
such a marvel —well, why doesn’t she get
him to conduct the meeting on his own.”
HE was so belligerently mournful that
he did not realise that he had entered
the town, and was startled when the
Produce Merchant, Sim Jacobs, called in
his trembling soprano, “Hi there, Sid,
you’ve forgotten to put on your town
face,”
Sid’s cheeks puffed out, and, squaring
his shpulders, he prepared to beat out a
merry tattoo on his imaginary drum.
“Always the clever fellow, eh, Sim!”
he bellowed, laughing so heartily that his
ears turned red and his jowls purpled.
There was hate in his heart, but only
laughter in his eyes. He owed Sim fifty
pounds for last winter’s fodder, and you
couldn’t trust a lousy hungry Jew. “Be
in to see you in about a month, Sim,”
he called jovially, waving his pudgy hand
as though to indicate he would square up
his account.
“I’ll expect you when I see you,” sim-
pered the little man, dusting up a shallow
draft of peas which had spilled from a
sack as it was being loaded. “Lousy
little cow,” thought Sid. “Someone’s
going to pay through the nose for that
dust.” He said “Okay, Sim. You’re a
great man for a joke.”
“Yes,” said Sim, “I know when I’ll
see you—when you want more fodder
for next winter. And I tell you now, you
won’t get it from me. Why don’t you
stay at home and do a bit of work on that
place of yours for a change?”
“Because they depend, on me to make
up a quorum. That’s what I try to din
into the wife. Every month I have to
waste time telling her the same old thing.
Look in the Rag, I say, and you’ll see
why I have to go in. Because if I didn't
the meeting would lapse for want of a
quorum, nine times out of ten.” He had
reined-in his horse, and now cocked his
leg comfortably over the pummel so that
he could lean on his knee. “I was think-
ing to myself as I came along: Here I
am, giving up valuable .time I can ill
afford to lose so that they’ll have a
quorum for the meeting, and what thanks
do I get from the bludgers who stay at
home filling their pockets as a result of
the benefits I help to get for them. Abuse.
That’s all I get.”
“You only read reports any rate,”
squeaked Sim. “Reports of central meet-
ings, reports of district meetings,
of monthly meetings. All a lot of reports.
You’d all be better at home. It’d be a
damn’ good thing if all the tomfool meet-
ings lapsed.”
“Well, now, look at it this way. We
must all do our duty as we see it. And
I think the D.F.U. does a great job for
the farmers. Perhaps the monthly meet-
ings aren’t well attended ; but if we didn’t
have them, We wouldn’t have the Union,
and if we didn’t have the Union, we
wouldn’t have the yearly conference, and
then where would we be? We’d be a
mob without a voice. And if we didn’t
have a voice, where’d we be? Now I ask
you that. Where would we be? We’d be
a rabble.” Sid’s voice was rumbling along
pretty mellifluously by this time, and he
was drinking in its reverberations with
great satisfaction as he flicked the reins.
The horse ambled off, but Sim’s high
shriek carried above its plodding hoofs,
“Bunkum. You only come in for the
jaunt. I bet you’re tickled pink they have
to hold them in the afternoon for
Smithers’ benefit. It gives you a chance
to get away from the missus.”
“There you are,” cried Sid, still out-
wardly jovial. “You’re not willing to
give me any credit for being a good
citizen.”
“I gave you credit once, but never
again,” taunted Sim.
“Smart little Jew ,” thought Sid,
digging his heels fiercely into the horse’s
flanks so that it increased its pace to a
fast canter.
WHEN he found the doors of the
Crown Hotel closed, his inward ill
humor increased ; but by the time he had
visited the Greeks and consumed a couple
of pies, doused liberally with tomato-
sauce (a condiment his wife said they
could not afford); chaffed a few young
shop-girls on their way back to work
after lunch ; and held forth on blasted
Communists at a couple of street-comers,
he was again his favorite character —
leader of the defunct Town Band, dis-
pensing good cheer. As he strolled down
the slope towards the Billiard Saloon, his
descending feet jolted his paunch so that
it rolled in much the same way as long
ago the drum had pressed and rolled
against him, and he thought “I might try
and get up a Band again. This town needs
a bit of stirring up. Lot of deadheads
here.” The more he thought of the
regular practice nights which would be
necessary to get the Band into concert
trim, the more convinced he became that
that was what the town needed to raise it
from the drabness which had come upon
it.
In the hairdressing portion of the shop,
he showered Tommy Pickworth with his
plans and his saliva for ten minutes be-
fore he realised that the place was un-
usually quiet. All the time he had been
booming out his thoughts to Tommy he
had had half an ear cocked for any
applause from the billiard-room, till at
last his stream of words petered out, and
he felt very much like an instrument that
has found itself unexpectedly playing a
solo.
“The place is like a morgue,” he said,
almost in a whisper. He looked into the
saloon. “What’s, wrong ? ”
“Nothing wrong,” said Tommy in his
usual expressionless voice, “They’re all
home having lunch so as to be ready for
this afternoon.”
“What’s on this \aftcrnoon —beside the
D.F.U. meetings?” asked Sid.
“Mrs. Lyons is having her hair
permed.”
There was no neeq to enlarge on this.
Mrs. Lyons was the lessee of the Crown
Hotel, and the wife of, Oscar, the town’s
most picturesque alcoholic.
“But how’s he getting the keys?”
breathed Sid, the tadpoles suddenly be-
coming electrified.
“Don’t ask me. All I know is that the
word has got around it’s op,”
“She’ll find out.”
“Perhaps, Perhaps not.” Pickworth
displayed neither hope nor despair. His
apathy was more depressing than either.
His light blue eyes registered! emotion
only when he watched the legs of the
young girls going past the unpainted lower
section of his windows. The last time his
tones had quickened had been when he
strongly denounced the New Look long
skirts as being unhygienic.
Sid looked dismal. “Something’ll go
wrong. Last time he made a mohjcey
of her was the Dairy Co.’s yearly, and
before I got a chance to even get a sniff
the missus had me in the sulky and half-
way home. That’s the worst of these
morning meetings. The women all come
in, and a man hasn’t a chance to tidy up
his business affairs at all. Just because
she’s got all her odds and ends, she
thinks it’s time to go, even if I’ve been at
the meeting the whole time.”
“All the same, women. All got itchy
feet.”
“The only time I have a chance to do
anything for myself is every third Tues-
day,” said Sid.
A PRECISE voice said “You better get
■Cv a move on, then. You’ve only half
an hour to devote to yourself.”
Si d, who was sitting by now in one of
the barbers chairs, looked up into tK
wide, fly-spotted, soap-flecked gl ass
saw standing at the door the neat ’Jr
figure of Watson, his head held sliS
to one side, his fine,
faintly sardonic beneath the trim
moustache. He had taken off his hat
and his sparse grey hair showed lift
pencil strokes on his pink scalp
about a haircut?” he asked Pickworth
who climbed down out of the other chair
and without speaking indicated he was
ready. As the napkin was tucked around
the narrow shoulders, Watson said “Miss
Sanderson expects us all to be punctual
today. Last month it was 3.30 before we
made a start. And you’re the culprit every
time, Layton,” y
“We got along all righMill this flapper
started throwing her weight around Arc
you going to allow a chit of a girl to
say when you start a meeting and when
you end it? I thought you had more
guts. Dinkum, I did.”
Watson’s neck crimsoned above the
rolled edge of the towel. His Adam's
apple moved its sharp point up and down
like an indicator-needle graphing the tides
of his anger on a red column.
“Miss Sanderson is a highly-efiicient,
intelligent young lady,” he said dryly’
“and no doubt she finds our dilatory
methods aggravating. We can't all be
people of leisure, you know.”
Sid successfully countered with his
most jovial bellow, “Ha, ha. Watson's
sweet on her. Eh, Piekie? She’s got him
all tied up.” He winked at Pickworth,
who immediately bent solemnly over his
comb and scissors as though to say,
“Don’t disturb me. This haircutting is a
serious business,”
Watson’s blue eyes sparkled and a
bright patch of color made a ragged
diamond on each lean cheek. He opened
his mouth, but his anger was so intense
that he gurgled inanely.
“Bend your head forward,” said Pick-
worth dolefully. As Watson’s chin jabbed
on to the rojled towel, he found his voice,
and he said “That remark is a true indica-
tion of your remarkably puerile outlook,"
Sid pulled in his stomach, tucked in
his shirt and swaggered to the door,
“Trust old Sid to hit the nail on the
head,” he said. “You can’t put much
over me. Well, I have a few things to
attend to. I’ll see you round about half-
past.”
“Half-past what? Now, Layton, this
half-past three can’t continue. I tell you
straight, it’s gone on long enough. I ve
had a stomachful of it. Two-thirty m
front of Halliday’s.”
“Okay. Okay,” chanted Sid good-
humoredly, “Keep your hair on, o
fellow. You’re paying to have it cut, V
know. Can’t do Piekie out of his two
bob.”
Pi UT on the footpath he paused*
moment to look about him. w .
would he go now? That clash wit
Watson had given him the so-ano-j _
What did he think he was, all dressed I up
like a sore finger and flashing
around. Everyone knew he’d selecte
best land in the district; hut. did
give him the right to lay down the
less fortunate people. He didn t jfice
slave his guts out. It wasn t any
for him to attend meetings.
Sid moved on up the street. H
go and see Win Carter. Thatd g an
a laugh. Poor old Win was
ignorant customer. He did not ad
the shop crowded with second x j oU s
ture was a beckoning finger to . j em
mind unofficially busy with the P
of how to evade the four fait ,- r£sh .
he had had his share of the fr
ment which was to flow so s
Crown. Jhcnd-shop
When he entered the secondhand^
he looked around in shocked a £ arte r
It was almost empty. * w her«
straightened up from the er ect,
he had been planing Eve-, v*® g bS ,
his shoulders stooped a little, g yhe
an appearance of frailty. * ha d the
was as swift as a ferret, 0 i
strength of a bow. £ & instan t
stealthy laughter showed fo oV er
in his light-blue eyes. He bent g yo u
the bench, and drawled, P ha j r ’ S still
Sid. Sit down. Your old. c yo u
there. I told the young bloK qUlte
usually sat in it, he
willing to leave it.” , that JjJ
Sid sat, bending f° rW^ d J 0 fat
stomach rolled flabbily in “\Vhat
above the top of his troase
1


going on here?” he demanded in an
"Thmiabt°*it’d knock you” said the
. ijherate low voice. “I’ve kinda noticed
de b totine auite an interest m various
ends I thoughta keeping that
wardrobe you were always investorat-
to at the back of the shop after the
monthlies.” There was no
nn in the voice, but something
in E c,d shift uneasily and stare fiercely
rfhe bending figure. If Win wasn’t
such an ignorant cuss he’d think he was
rytng to g get at him. Win looked up
his eyes as guileless as a child s. Who
hnnpht it all?” asked Sid.
b “That young fellow of Nome Sander-
«nn’s—you know— the cove who’s just
bought Williamson’s. They’re going to
the Big Smoke.”
“ ’Struth. He’s going to come a cropper
if he thinks that stuck-up Sanderson
tubby is going to be satisfied with second-
hand stuff!”
“That’s what they tell me, said Win,
smoothing the piece of timber, and look-
ing very pleased about something.
Sid settled back in the chair. “The
wife thinks she’s a pretty girl, but I
dunno, she doesn’t appeal to me at all.
Have you noticed her legs? Skinny as
a black gin’s.”
“Well, I don’t suppose you kiss her
legs,” commented Win, still smoothing
the timber. This time he did not meet
Sid’s narrowed eyes. Taking up the plane
again, he said: “They tell me she’s pretty
fast with those heroglycerines, and gets
down every word you auditors say.”
“Ha, ha,” laughed Sid, abandoning him-
self to laughter so that the tadpoles swam
in tears. He felt much better. He wiped
the tears away.
“Whafs wrong,” demanded Win.
“Nothing. Nothing,” said Sid. As he
wiped away the tears he said, “That girl’s
trying to run the meetings. She used to
be a nice little kid before she went to
college, and now look at her. Telling us
what time we’re to start —and I tell you
what I think is ridiculous. Every report
she sends up—‘the meeting concluded at
such and such a time.’ Now, who is
interested in that?” (He knew very well
who was interested in this.) “It’s just to
fill up 1 that rag of a paper. That’s all
she thinks of. Full of her own import-
ance.”
“Ah well,” said Win slowly. “Most
girls are the same. One moment they’re
in napkins and shoving their fists in their
mouths, and the next they’re home from
some school or other and looking like an
emasculate conscription.”
Sid was still wheezing and fanning him-
self with his hat when Smithers, the
D.F.U. secretary, sidled into the shop.
“He’ll kill me,” hiccoughed Sid before he
realised that here at his side was one of
the men he wanted to avoid. He rose
immediately and said, “Well, I must be
off. I’ve got a few more calls to make
and Mr. Watson informs me that the
meeting is to commence promptly at
2.30 p.m. Does he think he’s paying me
a compliment by allowing me to make up
a quorum, Smithers? Now, I give up
more than any of you fellows to keep
this branch alive. It makes me see red
to think of all the other members stick-
ing to their farms and enjoying all the
benefits that I help to get them. And
then what does Watson say? He orders
me around as though I’m a schoolkid.
What about my business affairs? Am
I to race in to town and race out again?”
Poor Smithers, a timid man and a
noted fence-sitter in all arguments, backed
away from the apparently enraged Sid,
and at last came up against Win’s bench.
111 see you later, Sid,” he stuttered. “I
just want to see Win here about a bench
hes making me.”
As Sid strode from the shop he heard
“v\, S dra , w * above the singing in his ears.
Yeh. It’s ready, but I’m warning you;
it s not up to expectorations.”
Q ID glanced hastily about him as he
passed down the footpath. He decided
ne d duck into the little passage near the
newsagent’s and thence into the lane
wnich ran behind the shops and came out
♦u a bloc K below the Crown. “Any
other day,” fie thought, “I’d have gone
straight to the hall, but there’s a limit
o a fellow’s endurance, and by God I’ve
reached mine.” As he approached the
end of the lane he slackened his pace, and
jnst at the edge of the footpath he paused,
e was about to peer cautiously around
e corner, when he heard Nonie Sander-
*°n,s nigh voice. “I don’t know how
b° U rl e ? ut U P w *th nB these years.
cally I don’t. Mr. Jenkins says he’s
j™.y s been the same. Deliberately
0 ding up meetings if he knows you need
mm for a quorum,”
Tp do f s at . least att end,” mumbled
nKms. “That’s more than can be said
tor a lot of them.”
Oh, Mr. Jenkins, you know very well
e Just comes in to get out of work.”
Watson’s crisp enunciation made the
other voices sound uncouth. “He never
fails to irritate me,” he said. “But I
don’t blame him for wanting to get away
from the sight of that hungry land of
his. Of course, only a fool would have
selected it.”
“That poor wife of his. She seems a
very nice woman. I just can’t imagine
how she came to marry him.”
“Don’t worry about her, Nonie. She
can look after herself, and Sid,” com-
mented Watson dryly.
Stealthily, Sid began to back along the
wall, till he came to the loading platform
of the big general store. He hauled him-
self up on to it. There was n& one
about, so he spent a short time leaning
against the wall and breathing heavily.
“I’ll cancel that Rag. That’s what I’ll
do,” he fumed. He completely over-
looked the fact that on his last account
Ray Venables had written, “We regret-
fully find it necessary to point out that
payment of this account is long overdue
and we should appreciate your immediate
attention, otherwise we shall be com-
pelled to delete your name from our
mailing list.”
Sid decided he would make them all
look silly, very silly indeed, by standing
at Halliday’s shop-corner and yelling to
them to hurry up and not keep him wait-
ing any longer. Smiling fatuously, he
walked jauntily from the store-room into
the shop. “Where’s old Mac?” he asked
the hardware counter as he passed, not
waiting for an answer. “Couldn’t see
him anywhere,” he said over his shoulder,
thus giving the impression he had been
looking high and low for old Mac in
the deserted storeroom. He called
cheery greetings to a few of the men on
the grocery counter, smiled lugubriously
at the girl on the sweets counter —“You re
in the right place there, Trixie,” he said,
and sped past the office because he had
no wish to see the harassed accountant.
ONCE more he was in the street. He
turned towards the corner, and natur-
ally looked straight at the Crown, from
which there now rose a humming, very
similar to that heard in a school-room
freed miraculously from the discipline of
a teacher. Sid came to an abrupt halt.
The jovial, gloating grin was immediately
replaced by a sullen glare of determina-
tion : “To hell with them. I’ll show them
I’m no schoolkid. Let them kick their
heels a bit longer.”
A moment later he lobbed in the bar
with the velocity of a well-catapulted
boulder. Behind him the door clattered
madly, and everyone, the billiard-room
crew, the street loungers, the no-hopers,
the ex-service personnel who couldn’t
settle down, all started and turned their
anxious eyes towards the door. “Ha,
ha,” roared Sid. “That put the brits up
you all. X thought it would.”
“It’s only Slippery Sid,” mumbled
someone.
“Cut it out. Do you want her lady-
ship to spoil her perm?” called another.
Hoppy Edmonds limped up and down
breathing heavily. “Perlease. Less noise.
Have some sense, perlease.” Poor Hoppy
had been chanting this refrain between
swigs ever since the session had opened
a quarter of an hour before.
“Fill up. A glass for our friend,” in-
toned Oscar. Sitting on a cask he had
pulled to the bottle department, he looked
like a big bear sucking up honey from
a glass. “Drink to freedom,” he com-
manded Sid. “Freedom from women.
Freedom from the Hounds of Hell. Free-
dom from that b who has had me
locked in a room for three days and four
nights and fed me nothing but barley
gruel. Freedom,” he grunted, and,
pouring out another glassful, sucked it all
down in one suck.
“The old Oscar, she’s in good form
today,” said one of the ex-Army men.
“Good form. Yes. Good form all
right,” sang wee Timmy admiringly. He
was the town’s half-wit, and was so busy
drawing beer and pouring spirits he had
forgotten to take even a sip. He was
completely happy in the unaccustomed
importance of his task, used as he was
to always being shoved into the back-
ground or held up to ridicule.
“Well, just this one,” said Sid unwill-
ingly. “But I’m really on my way to the
D.F.U. meeting. They need me for a
quorum.”
“Yes, you’re a big fellow all right, Sid,”
said one of the billiard-room crew. -“A
regular Pillar of Society, Sid is. A valu-
able citizen.”
“Freedom,” growled Oscar, pouring an-
other glass. “Drink up while you have
the chance. There’s a river of it, but
tomorrow she’ll tell you there isn’t a
drop. Drink to Freedom from Women.
‘Women are slugs in the cabbage of
bliss,’ ” sang Oscar,
“I better be moving on,” muttered Sid,
but he edged his glass forward so that
he beat one of the hoboes to the pump
by a fraction of an inch.
“Lissen t’ him, will youse?” said the
hobo. “Lissen to old Sid putting on side.
If you’re that important, they’ll come for
you.”
“What?” cried Sid, drawing back a full
glass carefully. “Not them. Old Watson
wouldn’t be seen drinking with you mob.
And old Smithers’ wife’s got him bluffed,
'And there’s Jenkins’ ulcer. And that
leaves Daniels, and they won’t let him
come, because they know he wouldn’t
get out,”
“What about your girl-friend, eh? I
hear you’re getting quite close to her. Ha,
ha. You’re a bit of a lad, aren’t you?
Good old Sid.”
Sid flushed. He stuttered. “She
wouldn’t come here” . ... >
“She’ll come if you’re as important as
you try to make out, "Cock. They’re
scratching for news down at the rag-
factory. I heard her telling some old
tart that the place is always as dead as
a doornail after the Show. But don’t
worry. They’ll get on without you,”
“Freedom!” bellowed Oscar.
AS they were tilting their glasses, a
door opened and there was a sharp
but delicate knocking on the polished
timber. “Mr. Layton. Mr. Sid Layton,’'
called a high, somewhat trembling girlish
voice. “Have any of you gentlemen
seen Mr. Layton? We need him urgently
at the D.F.Li. meeting.”
“Good old Sid,” called several. “They
can’t do without him.”
Sid. who had tried to hide himself
behind the thin bodies of Hoppy and
Skinny Adams, thought in horror,
“ ’Struth. Isn’t anywhere sacred these
days!” He saw the bright hazel eyes
skim over the faces, and just before they
came to his bodyguards he stirred, pushing
back his shoulders and rolling his head.
“Here I am. Just coming,” he said
heartily. He strode to the door, tucking
in his shirt. “So long, you loafers,” he
said in a slightly condescending tone.
“It’s a pity you haven’t some of my civic
pride,” .
Their departure was followed by faint
clapping and a couple of cheers, hushed
almost at birth by Hoppy’s imploring
“Perlease . . . Quiet. Perlease!”
Out in the street, Sid darted a glance
at the girl. She was looking across at
the bank corner where the four faithfuls
stood, Mr. Watson looking most unhappy
and disapproving, as though he hadn’t
been in accord with her action. There
was no expression on the girl’s face.
“That was real nice of you to go to
the trouble of digging me out, Nonie,”
began Sid affably. “Makes a man feel
pretty important to have a pretty flapper
like you rescuing him. I was wondering
how I was going to get away from them.
She did not reply till they started to
cross the street, then she said carefully,
as though she were a child choosing
sweets from a bag, “I knew how dis-
appointed you’d be if the meeting lapsed.
Your wife was telling me at the last
agricultural meeting how you could really
ill afford to spare the time. So I know
how relieved you’ll be to hear that my
fiance is joining this branch, and he’ll
be coming in for the meetings each
month. 1 was speaking to him pn the
phone just before I left the office.”
WITH trembling hands, Sid started
tucking in his shirt again. A tumult
of hurt and indignation spun his thoughts
like an eggbeater whipping ingredients
into froth. To think that after all these
years of loyal citizenship and unshrink-
ing devotion to duty, he had been told
by a mere girl he wasn’t needed any
more! It was an effort for him to lift
his foot to step from the road to the
pavement outside the bank.
“Well, you’re here at last,” commented
Watson tartly.
“Yes. I’m here,” said Sid heavily.
They all looked at him. His face was
slumped into the trough of his shoulders,
and his hands dangled limply against the
greasy shine of his coat.
In an unhappy silence they set out
for the hall.
VARIOUS VERSE
OH NO, MISTER THRUSH.
Now I will catch, says the bird.
Mountains and ribbony-guma,
Tea-tree, blackberry, sand,
Tussocks and cattle in the sun
All in one crystal word.
Here at the river’s bend
Above the ruffle of the shallows.
Pent in the diamond mirror
That glitters behind my eyes
Sparkles my whole hot land.
0 willow, O willow, O willow.
Three times in your green cloud
1 call like a spear of light:
All the world waits upon
My cry like the sun to follow.
And no then, Mister Thrush!
Burnish your pinpoint mirror
Clear as the sun itself,
Cry your last burning cry;
And know it must shatter and splash,
Widening till it becomes
The broad bright common world
Of tussocks and cattle in the sun.
Tea-tree, blackberry, sand.
Mountains and ribbony-gums.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
AT THE TULLY FALLS.
Here are such simple things, water and
rock—
A leaning precipice down which an arrow-
ing fall
Leaps like the convict over his prison’s
wall.
What is it, but escape? What but the
shock
At seeing water escape holds us in thrall?
Here are the criminal’s power, the cunning
of water.
We remember, in the rain forests, cupped
in its stone.
The seepage out of nowhere—the felon,
alone,
Mining his cell. How he bursts forth to
the slaughter
Of those who would thwart him, of the
world, of anyone!
What is this urge of water; this longing
to lie down;
This sloth in man, moved only by woman
or moon;
Desire for plenty at the lowest ebb; this
boon
Even the body seeks of water? Earth, let
me drown
And I shall come back to you like your
glass-bowl moon I
Is it our bodies move, moved by a body
of water:
The moons of fear repress us? We go
with the fall.
Now we are caught above it. We hear
it all: . ,
The noise of the pursuit, the maniac s
laughter;
We hear it in a shriek down the plunging
wall.
Yes, there was one went over. What falls
claim none?
A soldier, he was. A gun he might have
chosen.
If he knew some dark trouble; but water
will cozen
Even the rock; and water in flesh and bone
Runs back to the lap of water, once the
life-frozen
Body melts, when the cold fear of death is
thawed.
Water and flesh are one; in its body move
afl.
So, from the rocks’ bondage, watch felon
or fall
Leap to escape, you who stand with me
awed,
And know, too, this is your body leaps
over its wall.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
TURNING BACK.
Ash like snow stirred
In the wind and the light.
Under the song of the bird
That thawed the night.
I woke by the silver creek;
Peace woke, too;
And I heard Peace speak
From the great willow.
“Light again your campfire;
Fill your billy
At the silver creek, and share
The morning of my valley.
“In your blanket fold the sun
For a golden pack,
And having slept where the moon
Once shone, turn back.”
This I did, and as I turned
Towards the hills and home,
I knew what Peace had learned
Of those who roam.
N.S.W.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


BULL AND BULLOCK
BY GEOFF BINGHAM
THE bush paddock originally be-
longed to Tom Winters in the days
when he had been a successful
bullocky, that is to say, as bullockies
are counted successful. Tom, however,
like his bullocks, had grown old. It is well
known that individual bullocks are never
replaced within a team, for the team in
its entirety grows old, and it is time,
then, for the bullocky himself to consider
retiring from the game.
When Tom had finished with yoking,
his paddock, hitherto eaten to within
an inch of the ground, began to flourish
as a typical bush paddock. Bullocks
withdrawn, the dung fostered clumps, and
old tussocky grass flourished with
abandon. Ferns and blady-grass grew
coarsely, the suckers made their appear-
ance, unchecked. Finally Pat Reggin
purchased it, but the banks were the
real sellers, for old Tom had only nomin-
ally possessed it.
As bush paddocks go, it was not a bad
one. Suckers, blady-grass and bracken
given in, it was a warm paddock in
winter for the drys, and the tall growth
protected the green stuff from the frosts.
Stock even fattened upon it, and Pat
Reggin, when he bought it, was pleased
to graze his dry cows in it. Occasionally,
too, he was able to pick a line of poorer
stock which he would fatten and sell.
He kept only his own for breeding, but
the dealing turned him in a penny or
two,
Tom Winters, who lived next to the
bush paddock, still retained a connection
of sorts with it, in the form of the
old bullock. This bullock had been the
leader of his team, and in a way sym-
bolised the past which had been Tom
Winters’s and his team’s. He was Tom’s
pride, certainly, the old fellow with his
quiet ways; a present evidence of the
grand times before tractors, bulldozers
and timber lorries, for the old bullock
had a serenity sometimes lacking in these
more hurried days. All his ways were
pondered and determined.
GETTING into the dry paddock, for
example. There was never any hurry
in doing that, but he always got there.
Doubtless he believed himself within his
own right, for he had grazed there since
time immemorial. It seemed, both to
himself and Tom, that there never had
been a time when he had not wandered
there, so that, possibly, it was not a
moral argument, but merely an accepted
fact, that he was lord of the paddock.
This amount of free grazing was looked
upon tolerantly enough by Pat Reggin,
who, in his own way, had a great admira-
tion for the bullock and his master. He
never chased the beast from the paddock.
The bullock made his entrance through
a particular spot in the fence. Here,
where the wires were slack, he would
waggle through his huge head, and that
through, the remainder of his bulk man-
aged somehow to work through the now-
tautened wires. After this he would
amble towards the cows, male intent in
his stride, certainly, but so subtly con-
cealed that the cows never suspected.
With a gentle light in his reddish-brown
eyes he would gaze, casually, towards
them, carelessly making his approach, so
that, before they realised fully, he was
with them.
It was a habit of the old fellow to
select a partner for the day, a full-bodied
cow, or slim heifer, and it was rarely
more than a yard or so from him. Be-
cause of his age and experience, the old
bullock probably knew quite an amount,
but there was one matter still left un-
solved, and because of it, standing beside
the selected dam for the day, he would
stare ahead with mild puzzlement in his
eyes, mingled with a faint determination
in which there wais no loss of self-
respect. But, puzzlement or not, the old
bullock enjoyed his daily vigilance and
would not be separated from his mate.
What the cows thought is problem-
atical. Probably they were politely sur-
prised, for they certainly had great respect
for his bulk and shape, and no bull in
all his male entirety could have surpassed
him in shapely buttocks, full and hanging
dewlap, sleek glossiness of hide, bulk and
straightness of back, so that, perhaps as
much for his beauty as for his quiet
gentlemanliness, the cows welcomed and
accepted him.
HE differed greatly from the young
bull. The young bull belonged to
Jim Andrews, and, like Jim Andrews,
although perhaps in different ways, was
impulsive. His whole inclination was to
attack the bush paddock at any section
of the fence, force his way through, by
belly-twisting, and body-sidling, or to
belly-roll on the ground, or jump the
fence, so that he might be immediately
with the cows. Once through he would
run, tail flicking, belly swaying, and him-
self roaring, towards the dams, and had
it not been for the old bullock he would
doubtless have realised most of his in-
tentions.
The old bullock strongly deprecated
any rush or hurry of any sort. He had
not been used to it in hauling days, and,
conservatively, objected to it now. The
old bullock, ponderous in all his ways,
and determined, insisted that the young
bull should not impetuously rush any cow,
or, for that matter, have to do at all
with her.
On his first visit the young Jersey bull
had been bellicose. He had growled and
roared, torn earth in hoovesful, and
tossed it into the air. He had shaken
his horns wickedly at the old bullock,
but these actions the old bullock had
disregarded. When the young bull had
ventured even closer, and attempted to
come between him and the dam selected
for the day, he had shaken his old and
mighty head, with same grandeur of
action, powerfully, too, and that had
been enough for the younger beast. He
had accepted the situation, which was to
become more or less permanent. From
then on, he would, each day, follow
the old bullock, much as a disciple accom-
panies his master, and although there
may have been rebellions inclinations,
and barely submerged desires, the young
bull maintained a continuous respect.
Doubtless he was puzzled at times, especi-
ally on the count of the old bullock’s
ineffectiveness, but he seemed not to
question it.
Also, the two animals adhered strictly
to a timetable. It was agreed, apparently,
that the young bull retire from the pad-
dock about sundown, after which the
bullock would remain until dusk was
falling before returning through the
slackened wires to Tom Winters’s house
paddock. In the morning, after stm-up,
the old bullock would make his way into
the bush paddock, choose his day com-
panion, and wait for the young bull,
who, presently, would come roaring at
the bush paddock fence, conquer it, and
come racing towards the old chap and
the herd of cows. What the young bull
did in the night was probably never
revealed to the bullock, more out of con-
sideration for his feelings than the in-
ability of the younger animal to boast,
for the bull, whose inclinations were
stopped by no fence, upset many a gesta-
tion table in the district and caused sur-
prise to breeders of red cattle at time of
their stock calving.
Pat Reggin, who knew the possessive-
ness of the old bullock, and the defeat,
in the bush paddock, of the younger
animal, saw to it that his cows at mating
time had the advantage of his own bull,
after which he would return them to the
bush paddock, thereby creating illusion
in the mind of the old fellow, and bolster-
ing him with unjustifiable pride.
DOGS often visited the bush paddock,
and they were, of course, of various
kinds. Those who were hunters only,
by nature, entirely disregarded the bull
and bullock. They had no part in the
paddock but to hunt, and so they would
sniff around clumps of blady-grass, or
poke their heads into hollow logs, and
even occasionally startle a rabbit, after
which they would tear, ears back, legs
extended, and themselves shrieking, so
that the rabbit was urged on, and rarely
caught. The same dogs would mercilessly
hunt down a fox near the creek and
then, possibly, be beaten by him on con-
tact. The cows, bull and bullock knew
naturally that there was no danger in
these hunters.
But cattledogs, and dogs with the bush
tainting their blood, came only for sport
They had a desire to chase, and even kill,
and their entrance to the paddock, often
stealthily made, was with intent. They
made no immediate rush at the cows, or
even the calves. It was apparently under-
stood that the bosses had to be chal-
lenged, and so they would approach,
shoulders hunched, ears back, and moving
slowly on crouching legs. They would no
more dream of neglecting this procedure
than refusing a fillet steak.
The bull and bullock never neglected
the challenges. The young bull at their
approach would arch his powerful neck,
tense his heavy shoulders, and breath
strongly from his distended nostrils. He
would paw at the earth, and bring his
small tail flicking along the back. Then
he would charge the animals. Often a
dog would retreat before this maddened
rush, and relinquish the fight immediately,
but another might stand aside, and dart in
on the bull. Then the bull would twist
and turn, and cavort and bellow, and try
to hom the opponent. Usually, if the
bull felt that way about it, the dogs were
content enough to leave him to the field,
and they gave the impression as they
trotted off that a bit of fun was not
worth all that intensity of feeling.
Should they persist, then the old
bullock had his say. He had a habit of
bearing straight down upon the challeng-
ing animal, his nostrils snuffling and the
substance of them gleaming in the sun-
light. His form, lumbering, also had sur-
prising agility. The brown of the eyes
would change to pure red, and the heavy
white horns would waggle wickedly. His
head he would sway from side to side,
first at this dog, and then at that, and the
sight would be enough to awe the animals
into a hurried retreat, leaving the larger
beasts in triumphant possession of their
domain.
Outside the paddock it was a different
* matter. Should the
bull and bullock —as
occasionally they did
—decide to take a
holiday from the
bush paddock, then
they would go north
along the red earth
road, or south along
the same road, and,
either north or south,
they would meet a
dog, Jim Andrews’s
to the north and Pat
Reggin’s to the south. These dogs in-
stinctively knew the bullock and bull to
be out of bounds, since they themselves
had an intimate knowledge of the point
to which they could chase the intruding
animals, and yet not be without their
rights. The bull and bullock had the
same knowledge, so that invariably their
wandering impulses were checked, and
they returned to the paddock.
Strangely enough it was the young bull
who was chased, the dog at his heels
snapping and barking. The old bullock,
had he chosen, might have escaped to
north or south, as he desired, but he
always followed the dog which followed
the bull, and, at the fence of the bush
paddock, managed to enter that asylum
without the dog’s even snapping at him.
There, too, the chase ended. Reluctantly
and with wistfulness, the dog would cease
his barking, rest for a moment, panting,
beside the fence, and trot back to Jim
Andrews’s, or Pat Reggin’s—wherever he
belonged-r-and the bull and bullock
would go back to their old game with a
cow specially chosen.
BUT the old bullock arrived one morn-
ing to find the paddock emptied of
its cows and heifers. Not even a vealer
remained. Disconsolate, the old fellow
wandered about in the rough bracken,
the tussock and the fallen timber. He
climbed to the ridge, and peered about
his head swaying slowly, but not in the
valleys or on the valley sides could he
see the stock. Anyway, he knew thev
had gone. There was nothing for him to
do but graze, and this he did only half
heartedly.
Then the young bull arrived. He was
as usual, impetuous. He made his wav
through the fence, and came hurryine
across the curve of the valley, just below
the ridge, head down, and grumbling as
though, in a way, he was thinking, and
actually discussing some problem with
himself. There was scarcely muted
anger, too, in his eyes, and his belly
swayed with his urgency of perambula-
tion. His small eyes were searching for
the cows and the old bullock. The old
bullock he saw on the ridge, and raced
protesting to himself, towards him. When
he arrived he regarded the old fellow with
somewhat of surprise, as though the bul-
lock denuded of his cows was now being
sighted for the first time.
The old fellow, shorn of his usual com-
pany, certainly appeared lonely and in-
effective ; divested of his authority and
sovereignty. He was not even gently
quiet and puzzled. He was bewildered.
The two grazed uncomfortably that
morning. They sensed the change in the
paddock. In a way its old personality
had fallen from it. The young bull was
inclined impatiently to retire from the
paddock ; but habit held him, and he
grazed along with the old fellow. How-
ever, the absence of the cows made the
paddock different. Even the dogs, hunt-
ing for rabbits, were changed.
One of the dogs was Pat Reggin’s large
black dog, and some said there was a bit
of the dingo in him. He rarely entered the
paddock during the day, although often
at night he would chase the cows and
vealers. Today he missed the cows, and
saw the bull and bullock. He approached
the two warily, and the bull, who was
now ready for any suggestion of fight,
seemed scarcely to wait for the challenge.
He rushed straight at the black dog. The
dog crouched, his forepaws before him,
and the bull, back arched, and all muscles
tensed, bore down on him. The dog
barked and whisked aside only in time.
He snapped, and that set the small Jersey
dancing, forelegs down, splayed slightly,
neck bunched, the small tail flicking
angrily.
The old bullock was watching the
battle, his head lowered, heavily, towards
the grass, his red eyes solemn. Occasion-
ally he shook his head, and sent mucus
flying in golden streamers; but he made
no attempt to attack the snapping furious
animal, or to assist the young bull > l6
bull was well able to look after itself
Every twist and turn barely missed the
dog, who had lost himself, almost, m
savagery. The dog knew this occasion
was different from others, and would no
desist
The old bullock knew the difference of
the occasion. He might almost have goiu
to sleep, standing there, watching.
Usually, by now, he would have caar B e
the intruder and routed him, but to ay
he had hesitated, and now be no J oa 8
wished to fight. Also, he was slign >
afraid of the savage black fury.
PIN ALLY the bull drove off the black
I dog, but the dog would not outng .
admit defeat. It backed to the f" en ? e ’ h
stood barking. Then it retired tnr J
the fence, and lay down on the roa ■
still watching the two animals, i
jaws grinning, and the dingo c . urV f t 0
teeth apparent. After a time it c
disregard both animals, and trotted
the road, apparently pleased with msw •
The young bull watched the deparung
dog, and the bullock standing . q
motionless, as when the fight had
progress, watched the young buU- d
bull turned, stared at the old felld ' ’ tion
tossed his horns with emphasis, a , ef
he would not have dared do
days. But then today was no
day. from
The bullock made his way down
the ridge. He. went towards the
paddock belonging to Tom W fouoW-
this time the young bull f turn-
He hesitated only a moment he
ing towards his own P ad . ’ th ; s time,
went off, hurrying, not roarl I un til h e
but certainly confident enoug , a( j,
reached his side fence of the husn
dock; and disappeared.


The RIDER
BY DAVID
GAMPBELL
IT was the end of the drought Rain
lid*d down from the folds of a low
skv and the cracked earth drank,
smiting from a thousand mouths.
The bone-grey timber darkened, red
water spread out over the claypans on
the plain; emus stalked the fence-line in
boots of mud. It was a changed world.
Two men were walking along a flowing
track in the rain. Their car had bogged
down’on the highway by a laurel-tm
letterbox. They had not passed a house
for fifty miles, so they left the car and
plodded up the track on foot. They had
been walking now for three hours. It
was getting late.
The older man sat down on a fallen
tree and took off his boots. He was a
commercial traveller, used to anything;
but two pounds of mud on either foot
made him feel his age.
“One thing,” he said. “It’s warm
enough.”
“I got to get to Walgett,” the other
said. “Shed starts day after tomorrow.
I’ll lose my stand.”
He was a shearer, a dark-browed,
surly-sure, young man who had hitched
a ride. Better than no one, the traveller
had thought.
“There’ll be no shearing hereabouts
for a while,” the traveller said. “They’ll
be too busy pulling their 4 sheep out of
bogs. You’re as well here as anywhere” ;
thinking of the pub and the billiard
saloon,
“Just my luck,” the shearer said, “to
pick a track leading to nowhere.”
They trudged on in the wheel-tracks.
At each step the traveller felt the mud
ooze through his toes.
“To nowhere!” the shearer said.
'THE rain fell cleanly, and in the late
* glare the plain lay flat before them.
It met the folded sky below the horizon ;
the track lost itself in distant timber.
Night came down and they followed the
shine of water in the wheel-ruts.
“A mile or so,” the shearer said, “and
we’ll be in the Dead Heart.”
The traveller laughed.
“I think I’ll put my boots back on,”
he said.
About nine o’clock they saw a light
through the rain. It laid a blade on the
water and was gone.
“Seeing things,” the shearer said.
They walked another mile and came to
a house among dripping pines. A light
splashed through the pines; dogs barked.
The two men broke through a saltbush'
hedge and the door rang hollowly under
thfeir knocking.
Must be someone about,” the
traveller said, feeling the boards rot
here”** 1 ' little place he has
“Who’s there?”
chained light showed
through the doorway.
B°°d evening! ” the traveller said,
asty night. We’re bogged out on the
am road. Looking for help. You’re
a long way out here, Mr. . , .?”
There’s a settlement two mile up
t . * ke turn-off,” the man said. And
the door shut.
l° us y !” The shearer was
»u£ Ing . on the door - “I’d like to”
What is it now?”
he door was opened on the chain.
k ser5 ere ’ mate: it’s raining. We’re
t«Sk”~ we ’ re hungry - If you
iravdlt’a’d^ 0 ™ f ° r the night ” the
', he dark they were conscious
chain(.H SU iE IClori * n tbe man behind the
hesitate 1°° r ’ of his i Q decision. He
hesitated, loosened the chain.
weu, why didn’t you say so?”
FI nin^ d down the dim stained-
picking « ballway, the hurricane lamp
kitchen the knots . in the wood. The
Paper P a P ere d with yellowing news-
dreSer_S ere W f re . chairs > a table, a
licked in and tldy- Small flames
in the A cat itself
welSrne 2 ” 8 th not mucb » but you’re
Si t by the fire "n? said ’, batching-
board.” “ ‘ 10 see what s m the cup-
His attitude had suddenly changed. He
was excited now, anxious to please. The
traveller noticed the extreme shyness in
his eyes; his lean stoop like a tree bent
by prevailing winds ; his hair straight and
black despite his age.
Must have been a strong man once,
the traveller thought. He said aloud,
calming his host, “Don’t go to too much
trouble. You’re a long way out: here. It
must be a lonely life, Mr. . . .?”
“Jack Watson,” the man said. He
seemed surprised by his own name,
meeting the other’s eyes with flinching
courage. In the lamplight, the pupils
contracted, as though he would hide
himself behind a blank iris.
“Jack Watson. Lonely enough—since
the dog died. Mutton, tea, bread, jam.
Little enough ; but sit to.”
While they ate, Watson sat long-armed
by the fire. The wind cried in the belar
pines ; rain fumbled at the roof.
“A cat,” Watson said, “is different
from a dog. A cat’s complete in itself.
A cat don’t know anything about
friendship.”
The shearer, warm with food, winked
at the traveller. Lightly his fingers
touched his temples. The traveller blew
in the pannikin, drank his tea.
“It’s interesting to hear you say that?”
he said.
“This dog saved my life,” Watson
said; “or my reason, anyway. I was
young then, shepherding Conroy’s sheep
down in the Pilliga. I was thinking of
getting married and wanted the money.
You’ve never seen a drought like that one.
The plain was as bare as the palm of
your hand.
(t A MAN could stand in the centre of
the plain and turn on his heel. You
can see for miles on these plains. There’d
be the rim of the horizon and the pale
sky and trees growing out of the
sky, twenty foot up. But not a blade of
grass to bless him with. It’s marvellous
what a sheep can live on when it’s put to
it.
“I had five thousand of them —when
I started: poor tucked-up skeletons that
ticked when they walked. You wouldn’t
give your waistcoat for the lot of them.
I spent half my time lopping myall and
poking the sheep through the scrub.
They’d pick up a dry leaf or two and
root in the black soil for crowsfoot. But
you couldn’t take ’em too far from water.
“There was an old corroded bore, full
of green slag that waved in the flow like
weed. The bore fed into a dam at the
edge of the timber; and I pitched camp
beside it: the wagon, with a bit of a
tent-fly out from one side ; railings for
the horses and sheep-skins drying over
the rails; a waterbag strung from a
branch of one Of those bent coolibahs;
the stinking scum on the dam ; the plain ;
the timber.
“But I quite liked it at first. All the
birds for fifty miles around came to the
dam to drink: pink and grey galahs
wheeling out of the mirage like gulls ;
parrots ; ducks; emus. And at night the
wild pigs came down to root in the slime
and clean up any carcasses lying about.
It was a tidy camp.
“When the dog got to know the run of
things, I’d leave the sheep to him. He’d
take them out quietly through the scrub
and bring them back to water in the
evening. I’d see to things about the camp,
cut a night’s ration of myall, and watch
the birds around the dam. It’s surprising
how you get to like the plains—even in
drought-time.
“At first, if you’re not used to them,
they’re just a waste; but I got to know
their subtleties on that trip. The way the
bleached colors back each other up:
green water and yellow clay and a sky
faded like a shirt that’s been boiled too
much. The colors of the birds were the
same. You’ve got to know them.
<iO UT there’s something uncanny
D about the plains for all that.
Those twisted trees caught in the sky,
and the mob treading air on the way
home if the dog happened to wheel them
out of the timber. I gave up staying in
the camp after a bit, kept with the dog.
It’s no good for a man to be too much
alone.
“He gets to watching himself. And if
he’s not careful, he’ll be talking away
like a couple of old women over the
paling fence,
“ ‘By Cri! she’s hot today. Hotter ’n’
hell!’
“ ‘Well, yes, she’s hot. Known it
hotter.’
“ ‘Them flies get worse and worse every
day. Funny how they like to camp on
your back.’
“ ‘Gives ’em a free trip round, I expect.
Flies won’t break a man’s back though.
Quit bellyaching.’
“I kept with the dog. A dog you can
talk to.
“After a month or two, this dog was
almost talking himself.
“ ‘Sailor’ his name was —one of those
sharp red kelpies that can’t sit still. If
they’re not slinking around the sheep,
they’re working the leaves in a whirl-
wind or rooting out fleas. But Sailor sat
quiet when I talked to him,
“ ‘Not a bad day,’ I’d say, ‘Only three
deaths. We’ll have to watch those pigs
among the sheep. They’re getting mighty
savage.’
“And Sailor would sit there under the
tree with his head on one side, taking it
all in. I’ve had other dogs, but Sailor
you could talic to.
“The day I ran out of tobacco, he
seemed to miss it as much as I did.
Licked my hand and whined a bit and put
his paw up on my knee. He knew all right.
t<T ’D been there for close on four
1 months and out of smokes for a
week when I saw the horseman riding
along the skyline. It was midday, glare-
hot under the thin tree. I’d been sicken-
ing that morning for lack of green
vegetables and sent the dog out alone.
At first I thought I was seeing things;
but the horseman rode down out of the
sky and was ambling in a gentle dust
through the heatwaves. I didn’t wait any
longer. I don’t know which I wanted
most —a smoke or a yarn.
“I had the young bay saddled and was
galloping out across the plain before I
realised what a crow I must 100k —hair
over my shoulders and a beard to put the
edge on Burke and Wills. The horseman
saw me coming and rode for his life.
“That man could ride. He was
mounted on a strong bay like myself, and
until we made the timber I was eating
dust. In the timber I lost my hat but
gained on him. The horses crashed
through the springy saplings, lengthened
out across a clearing, went over the bank
of a dry watercourse between pines, the
rider just ahead of me, crouched low on
the neck like a steeplechaser. It was
then I got a surprise.
“ ‘What’s he up to?’ I thought. ‘He’s
been shepherding sheep, same as I have.’
“The rider had long streaming hair and
a streaming beard.
“What did he have to be scared about?
It made me angry. I spurred alongside,
wheeled hlrti back into the watercourse,
baled him up against a cliff face. Both
horses were ridden out. They stood in
shadow with heaving flanks.
“ ‘All I was wanting was a smoke,’ I
said. ‘Smoke and a yarn.’
“ ‘The rider was a lean man about my
own height and coloring. His face was
pale beneath his beard and a strange
smile twisted his mouth.
“ ‘Well, you’ve caught up with me,’ he
said.
“ ‘You had no reason to ride like that,’
I said. ‘l’ve been shepherding, too. Why
don’t you take a look at yourself? Got
the makings?’
“He took out a plug from his waist-
coat, cut off a few shavings, gave them to
me with a paper. I noticed that his brown
hand trembled.
'“Pretty miserable, aren’t you?’ I
said.
“The rider laughed, eyeing me now
with humorous cold eyes, making a joke
of me.
“ ‘No good wasting tobacco on a
mirage,’ he said. But he cut me another
slice off the plug.
“I was looking him over, sizing him up.
He was a big man but so was I.
“ ‘Look here, mate! ’ I said. T don’t like
the way you look at me. Either you take
that dirty smile off your face or I’ll
knock it off.’
“And I climbed down out of the saddle,
letting the reins drop, and stood there in
the dry bed of the river, waiting for him.
I must have looked like one of those old-
time boxers, with my beard and
whiskers. At any rate, it made him laugh.
' “ ‘Don’t be crazy,’ he said. ‘l’m not
that far gone yet.’
“In the end I gave him up.
“ ‘lf you’re not man enough to fight,’
I said, ‘l’ve done with you.’
“It made me angry to think I had fallen
in with a fellow like that after four
months alone.
“He was quite merry when we parted,
smiling broadly and waving his big hand.
But the same expression was in his eyes,
as though he was pulling my leg; or
having his own pulled.
“ ‘See you later,’ he said.
“We rode off in opposite directions;
and the last I saw of the rider he was
twenty feet up in the mirage, among the
floating tree.
“Back at the camp everything was as
usual: the wagon, the green water in the
dam, the dog bringing the sheep in
through the sunset. But something had
me worried.
“I’d smoked one of the cigarettes; the
other I’d rolled and put in my tin. I kept
opening the tin to see if the cigarette was
still there. It became a habit, like smok-
ing, and I rationed myself to so many
looks a day. Sometimes the anxiety of
waiting was almost more than I could
bear. Then I’d be satisfied for a time,
“I kept that cigarette until the rain
came. The drought broke just like this,
with folded clouds coming out of the
north-east. The day I struck camp I took
that cigarette and smoked it down to the
very end. I couldn’t wait any longer.
It’s difficult to say at times what a man
needs most —a yarn or a cigarette.”
The old man sat for a while, smoothing
the sleek fur of the cat that had jumped
up on to his lap. The cat purred and he
stared into the dying coals of the fire. His
two guests were asleep.
“Sometimes,” he said, “I wish I’d kept
it-”
Outside, the rain fell steadily.
NOTE OF INTERROGATION.
“Is there a God,” the unbeliever cries,
“In or beneath our earth, beyond the skies,
In unimaginable depths of space,
Anywhere in the bounds of time and
space?”
Vainly he pries, deeply he probes and
searches,
In colleges, in labs., in clubs, in churches.
In stars, in slimes, atoms and bubble-skins.
In sands and shales and nature’s rubbish-
bins:
His mind, one huge and hungry question-
mark,
Still boldly fronts the unresponsive dark.
NEW ZEALAND.
ARNOLD WALL.


What COMMUNISTS
Teach
By M.H.ELLIS
/- OMMUNISM is a belief
founded on the theory of
dialectic materialism. The
basis of it is a premise that all
progress comes through a series
of struggles between opposites,
one of which in the course of
time destroys the other until
perfection is attained.
Social progress is, therefore, in
the Communist theory the pro-
duct of the class struggle, which
in this era is waged between the
“wage slave” and the capitalist
to the death and to the point of
completely liquidating the capi-
talist system. The Communists
do not believe that mere victory
by the workers is enough, or
mere surrender by the capitalists.
To attain the millennium there
must be “ violent ” destruction of
capitalism, which must be wiped
out so that not a vestige remains.
Capitalist property rights must
vest in the “workers,” being held
in trust for them, of course, by
the “vanguard of the working-
class,” the Communist party.
The Workers’ “Fatherland”
The Holy Centre of Com-
munism is Russia. In the jargon
of Communism everywhere,
Russia is “the workers’ only
fatherland,” and, in Stalin’s
phrase, “the base for world
revolution.”
The first duty of every Com-
munist, therefore, is to protect
and guard Russia as the G.H.Q.
of revolution. Hence the slogan:
“Defend Soviet Russia.”
All belief and all ideas
expressed by Communists are
governed by the conditions that
their meaning must be in-
terpreted “according to Marxism-
Leninism.” Marxism is the
original theory of pure Com-
munism, unqualified and un-
modified by practical experience.
Leninism, according to the de-
finition set out by the Australian
Communist party’s basic text-
book, Stalin’s Foundations of
Leninism, is “Marxism in the
epoch of imperialism and of the
proletarian revolution. Or to
be more exact, Leninism is the
theory and tactics of the pro-
letarian revolution in general, the
theory and tactics of the dictator-
ship of the proletariat in par-
ticular.”
The object of its strategy and
tactics is the destruction of
“imperialism,” i.e., international
capitalism. In advanced coun-
tries it “denotes the omni-
potence of the monopolist trusts
and syndicates, of the banks and
financial oligarchy in the indus-
trial countries” ; in “backward
countries” it means “the most
shameless exploitation of back-
ward colonial peoples to squeeze
out super-profits.”
Where the meaning of any-
thing in Communism is in doubt
the unchallengeable referee is
Stalin, who is the acknowledged
world leader, by the Australian
party’s resolution:
Long live the World Party of
Lenin and Stalin.... Long live our
great teacher, Comrade Stalin, be-
loved leader of the world proletariat.
Revolutions can take place
singly in separate countries, but
Stalin states in the A.C.P.’s
standard textbook:
Today it is inadequate to regard
revolution as a self-contained unit in
one country. It is necessary to speak
of proletarian world revolution, for
the separate national fronts of
capitalist* have become links i« a
single chain called the world front of
imperialism, to which should be
opposed the united front of the
revolutionary movements of all
countries. Revolution will begin
where the chain is weakest, not
necessarily where industrial develop-
ment is greatest.
Revolutionary Theory
•To show how the ground
must be prepared, the Australian
party’s standard textbook quotes
Lenin:
Revolution is impossible without
national crisis, affecting both the ex-
ploited and the exploiters It is
important that a majority of class
conscious workers should fully
understand the necessity for revolu-
tion, and be ready to sacrifice their
lives for it; secondly, that the ruling
classes be in a state of governmental
crisis, which draws the backward
masses into politics weakens the
government and makes it possible for
the revolutionaries to overthrow it
rapidly The task of the victorious
revolution is to do the utmost
possible in any one country for the
development, support and stirring-up
of revolution in all countries.
The method whereby the
point is reached at which a
major crisis is created and a
Government can be overthrown
is called the United Front tactic.
This means a united front be-
tween the Communist party, the
organisation of leadership, the
“general staff” of the proposed
revolution, and a progressively
widening series of interests. In
each stage it is the design of the
Communist party to unite with
a mass of its victims in the same
way that an engine unites with a
train, and to draw them into
purposeful mischief connected
with the revolution.
The United Fronts
In the charter issued to the
Australian party by the Comin-
tern in 1923 and signed by
Kolarow, a bloodthirsty, dia-
bolical Bulgarian terrorist, the
party was ordered —and agreed—
to establish a united front with
Labor, but it was explained;
This tactic is not a peace-treaty
with Labor.... It is merely a
manoeuvre in the proletarian class
struggle. It is not an end in itself,
but a tool for the accelerating of the
revolutionising processes of the
masses.
The objective of the United
Front with the trade-unions was
to persuade unionists to abolish
the old craft unions and replace
them with groups of industrial
unions, each one of these
large enough to paralyse in-
dustry and the country in
general, either in peace or war;
then to establish Communist
control of these unions and
shape their policy towards pro-
ducing conditions suitable for
revolution. Over 30 years the
party has gone a long way to-
wards success with this policy,
as the country all too well knows
to its cost. Not only have the
coal unions, railway unions,
wharflaborers, ironworkers and
other metal - workers been
grouped and taught the technique
of national sabotage, but Com-
munists have secured the leader-
ship of every one of them, and
they have become instruments of
Communist policy that is,
instruments of revolution.
The second stage in Com-
munist organisation of a country
like Australia is the widening of
the United Front with the unions
to become a People’s Front.
This is attained by the red-
anting of the middle-class, youth,
scientific bodies, farmers’ bodies,
schools and associations. Most
of the bodies which result from
this work deny vehemently that
they are Communist, and, in
fact, a very large majority of
the members are often unaware
that they are serving Communist
ends.
Thus when the Friends of the
Soviet Union was banned during
the last war, shrieks of indigna-
tion went up on the ground that
it was non-Communist.
It was a sinister organisation,
its formation ordered by the
Communist party and or-
ganised by it. Its objective was,
as stated in the A.C.P.’s order,
“to aid the workers of Russia to
build socialism in order that
they may be able to resist the
attacks of the imperialists.”
Top officials were always high-
ranking Communists.
Peace-—lt’s Wonderful
Peace is the main commodity
which all the People’s Front or-
ganisations sell. Peace, however,
as understood by these bodies is
not peace in general terms —but
peace “according to the doctrines
of Leninism-Marxism.” When
the objective of all these bodies
is summed up it might be stated
as “peace for the capitalist world
so that Soviet Communism may
collect the pieces of it.”
Every one of the “non-
political cultural organisations,”
formed on the order and by the
agents of the Communist party,
have as their aim “peace,” i.e.,
the destruction of defence in
the “imperialist” countries,
while not interfering with the
armament of the Soviet Union
and its satellites.
All these People’s Front
bodies adopt the common
theory that the whole world,
including Australia, is bent
upon attacking Soviet Russia
and therefore must be pre-
vented from arming in any
shape or form. There are
hundreds of resolutions of Com-
munist and fellow - traveller
bodies fulminating against the
plans of Menzies, Lyons,
Chamberlain or somebody else
who happens to have advocated
compulsory training for the de-
fence of his country. But let
anybody move a resolution
against universal conscription in
the U.S.S.R. and he will be
hooted off the platform. When
it comes to the armament of
Russia—“ Hands off the Soviet
Union, the Workers’ Only
Fatherland.”
Behind the peace campaigns
which have operated over the
past 20 years there has always
been, apart from the question of
Russia, the thought that you
can’t organise a revolution if
the State has a strong defence
force which is able to quell it.
Therefore, down with defence
forces.
Technique and Pretexts
Having achieved nucleus sup-
port through a People’s Front
and a Trade Union United
Front, the plan of the Com-
munist party is to use its powers
and influence to produce the
revolutionary situation which it
needs.
Here is one of the instructions
on technique from Moscow,
adopted by the Australian Com-
munist party and published in
that party’s official organ:
The light against imperialist war is
only a development of the general
class struggle of the workers against
capitalism, the cause of war In
order that the party can effectively
lead the workers against the war-
makers it becomes increasingly
necessary to gain contact with existing
military organisations and for party
members to become firmly rooted in
the factories, especially in those
which are essential war industries.
The chemical industries —the metal
industries which produce arms and
all sorts of equipment from trouser
buttons to modern artillery; the food
industries without which no army
can live, and transport —maritime,
railroad and motor —must all be
penetrated and organised ©n the basis
of shop and factory committees.
This is the basic task of the party
in conducting the everyday struggle
against capitalist encroachments,
wage reductions, increased hours, etc.,
and this task is doubly necessary in
view of the war danger.
“Acquire Arms”
The instruction went on to
say that “when war comes, the
workers must be prepared, not
to boycott war by refusal to
render service or by inaction or
by pacifist means, but to take
advantage of the opportunity to
acquire arms and from then on
turn them to their account. The
workers alone can end war by
smashing for all time the present
cause of war, capitalism.”
The resolution summed up
the real objectives of all this
policy:
As there cannot be a successful
revolution without a revolutionary
organisation with cells in every
factory and pit, the immediate task
of the Communist party is their
organisation so that our ideological
influence shall be known and our
leadership accepted in the hour of
crisis.
The kind of work the cells or
nuclei were to carry out in the
factories can be deduced from
the Security Circular issued by
the district committees* of the
Australian party with its orders
for their formation:
It cannot be too often repeated
that the factory nucleus of the party
is illegal; that names of party
members in a nucleus must not be
kept anywhere where our enemies
can get hold of them; and in record-
ing minutes, in discussion, etc.,
pseudonyms must be used, so that
in the event of documents falling
into the hands of our enemies, real
names will not be shown... .When
going to and from a factory nucleus
meeting members must not carry
documents or anything that would
prove to the authorities in the event
of an arrest or raid that the meeting
is one of a party nucleus....lf
arrested give no statements in-
criminating any comrade, no names,
no address, not a single fact that
can be used directly or indirectly
against, the party.
When it was admitted to the
Comintern the Australian Com-
munist party undertook to main-
tain “a systematic and vigorous
propaganda in the Army” and to
form Communist nuclei in every
factory and “in every military
unit.”
It also agreed to “denounce
not only avowed patriotism
but also dishonest and hypo-
critical pacifism, and systemati-
cally to demonstrate to the
workers that without the revo-
lutionary overthrow of capital-
ism no international court of
arbitration, no discussion of the
reduction of armaments can
preserve mankind from'fcSf
imperialist wars.” sn
In the event of “imperialist
war {i.e., such as World wS
II), the course of Communist
was set out clearly for them --
Our task is to stimulate mass
opposition to conscription which ™ ? ii
manifest itself not* merely as an am
conscription opposition/ not mer/'
as a defence, ,£ democrat*
Australian citizens, but as define
opposition to imperialist war Vw
of this opposition will grow a’iar/e
and more class-conscious movemen
determined to wage civil war rathe
than be conscnpted, and eventually
to* press forward through ma «
political stakes to the challenge for
complete pobtical power, and ac ,
guarantee that the workers shall
hold what we take, the establishmen
of our dictatorship.
A “People’s” Government
All this is supposed to lead to
the formation of a “People’s”
Front Government embracing
all Leftist bodies prepared to
work with the Communists to
produce Socialism, which is in
Lenin’s definition “the stage
after the destruction of capital-
ism from which Communism
develops.”
In the People’s Government
the Communists are content to
take a couple of apparently
minor Ministries —that of “In-
terior,” “Industry” and whatever
controls the police and the
courts. Under this kind of
government the defence forces
are replaced by the “workers’
militia” based on the Communist
cells in the factories. This type
of administration is being advo-
cated in Australia. Its processes
of development have been illus-
trated in Czechoslovakia, where
it was used under the command
of the Communist party to take
over the country by force and
establish the last logical stage
of Communist organisation—
the “dictatorship of the prole-
tariat.”
Dictatorship by Violence
What is meant by the dictator-
ship of the proletariat is set out
in one of its textbooks by
Dmitrov, printed in Australia
and for basic teaching in
the official Marx schools, which
are headed by a man specially
trained for his task in Russia;
Soviet power and only soviet
power can bring salvation The ex-
perience of the Russian revolution
has demonstrated patently that the
basic content of the proletarian
revolution is the question of the
dictatorship of the proletariat, which
is called to crush the resistance ot
and overthrow the exploiters, to arm
the revolution for the struggle against
imperialism and to lead the revolu-
tion to the complete victory ot
Socialism.
Another textbook —The Foun-
dations of Leninism, by I-
Stalin, which every trainee for
the Australian Communist party
must study and absorb— says;
The dictatorship of the pip letar *f 1
arises [under the Communist-par >
leadership] while the bourgeois ora
is being torn down, after the ove-
throw of the bourgeoisie, in process
of the expropriation of the land lor -
and capitalists, during the process
socialisation of the principal n
of production, in the process
violent proletarian revolution,
dictatorship of the proletariat
revolutionary power 1* 356 ?,
violence against the bourgeon •■ ■ •
[it is] the domination ot i
proletariat over the bourgeoisi' .
trammelled by law 11 f t [, e
come about as a res / t hnurg eois
peaceful development of hou g
society amd of bourgeois democracy,
it can come only as the resu g
destruction of the bourgeo
machine, of the bourgeois army^.^
the bourgeois civil admi
and the bourgeois police.
It is because the Austral n
Communist party is ue
to these plans and * s ac * ua
carrying them out that the
monwealth Governrnen
decided to ban the party. j(s
When a party declares in
Party Training Man . ual an d
objective is the breaking- P
shattering of the State,machmer,
by “violence and th baS j s
tion of whole classes on e(i
of “all power to the
workers and no power
but the workers, the sup p reS .
logical reason for i £now-
sion, especially when hea d
ledges the leadership
of a foreign and inirn c ct&tQt
a cruel and barba [° am bitio°
who has avowed h Q q U et
that his policies shall conq
the world.


THE ROYAL
EASTER
SHOW
"Grand Army Spectacle,
April 01-/2^/950
*■' * M
The Garden op Flowers - By uvso Chiloreni v
Sheep-ooq triads.
Trotting; .
Prime Bsep,
Pouo.
BoCi-c- JoMPlMA r
DOING, wia BLOCK*.
The heavy Brigade


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
GERMAN “LOST LEGION ”
In her pungent style and
human manner, Rebecca West
has reported, in the course of a
“World Review” article, on
Germany’s vast host of refugees
(not to be confused for a
moment with the more publi-
cised “displaced persons,” who
represent a comparatively minor
problem):
“At the Potsdam Conference,
where men so tired as to be
virtually imbecile, gibbered
away the futures of millions, it
was agreed that all groups of
German origin in Poland,
Czechoslovakia and Hungary
should be expelled from their
homelands and sent back to
Germany.
“This was supposed to wipe
out the peril to these countries
which was\ presented by Ger-
man minorities willing to con-
spire treasonably with Germany ;
and it was fatuously stipulated
that the expulsions must be con-
ducted in ‘a humane and orderly
manner.’ It is, of course, ob-
vious, and must have been so
to the civil servants and poli-
ticians who were responsible
for the use of that that
it is impossible to deport some
millions of human beings into a
strange land where there is
already a housing shortage and
where there is social and eco-
nomic chaos without great
suffering and disorder.
“Furthermore, at the same
conference, it was arranged that
the Polish boundary should be
moved so far west that it took
in territory containing 9,000,000
Germans. Of these a vast num-
ber chose to flee into Germany.
“Some of these people were
directed or drifted into the
Soviet zone of Germany. They
did not read the [London Com-
munist] “Daily Worker,” so
failed to notice that they were
—London “Daily Express.”
"AH! DR. FUCHS’S SUCCESSOR, NO DOUBT.”
well off. It seemed to them that
they were hungry and ill-housed
and continually threatened by
loss of liberty. So they came
over the border into Western
Germany; and were joined in
their flight by a number of
ordinary Germans, native to the
lands now occupied by the
Soviet.
“These are the true refugees.
There are over 9,000,000 of
them according to the latest
figures. Nearly 4,000,000 are in
the British zone.”
Holding them to represent a
very great danger, a London
“News Chronicle” correspondent
has also reported on this lost
legion of Germans who “are
not included in the Charter of
the International Refugee Or-
ganisation” :
“Lt the factories in the indus-
trial cities and in the remotest
villages you hear their accents.
They are everywhere, but
everywhere they remain second-
class citizens, unwanted and
homesick.”
Remembering the hordes of
young hitchhiking Germans he
had himself encountered all over
Germany in the ’twenties, and
who turned to Hitler, though
“they at least had their homes
in Germany, and they met with
sympathy wherever they went,”
the correspondent commented:
“These new hitchhikers are
of German blood, but in most
cases have no German roots,
and they are billeted on people
whose own homes have in all
probability been partially de-
stroyed by bombs.
“All the personal frictions we
knew in Britain between towns-
people evacuated to the country-
side are so intensified here in
Germany that these second-class
citizens, far more than the ex-
officers of the Reichswehr or
the ex-members of the Nazi S.S.
and S.A., are likely to become
the enthusiasts for another world
war.”
The number of 9,000,000 of
them is accepted by most of
those who have looked into the
problemeven so careful an
observer as Lord Beveridge (in
a London “Spectator” article)
puts the number at not under
8,000,000. In one of a specially
expert series of articles in N, Y.
“Herald Tribune,” Wolfe Frank
(who, German-born, is now a
British subject and was a British
Army officer during the war)
puts the figure in this perspec-
tive: “One of every five Ger-
mans in the Western zones is
an uprooted, transplanted Ger-
man.”
Frank agrees that their
presence is generally unwel-
come, if not actually resented,
among the “already over-
crowded, under-housed, job-
short fellow-Germans of the
West.” He adds:
“The number of refugees is
growing rapidly, as the mass
migration from East to West
continues day and night. The
experts estimate that the num-
ber of German refugees in the
Western zones will shortly total
11 million. Pessimists among
the experts say the figure will
reach 14 million, more *han one
in every four people in an
already densely-populated area
of Europe.
“The overwhelming majority
of the refugees have no work,
no homes of their own, no
future they can discern. No
international organisations are
worrying about their care. They
have no place to go; they are
at the end of the road.
“Today there are 9,000,000
hapless and disorganised indi-
viduals. Tomorrow, with leaders,
they could become a force, still
unarmed perhaps, but a force
9.000. strong. Or 11 million ;
maybe 14 million.”
From another observation
point, a special correspondent in
Germany of the Edinburgh
“Scotsman” has reported that
the population of the Eastern
(Soviet) zone “is declining more
rapidly than during the war” ;
that during 1949 that zone’s
18.000. population declined
by between 500,000 and 600,000,
most of this being due to west-
ward migration:
“The Soviet zone decline can-
not be attributed to a deliberate
policy of driving destitute people
westwards in order to increase
economic difficulties-in the Wes-
tern zone. There are too many
valuable technicians among the
migrants. The emigration re-
flects merely a widespread reac-
tion to poor living conditions
and personal insecurity.”
In a London “Daily Mail”
survey headed “Germany’s Real
and Immense Grievance,” a staff
correspondent has called the
issue “Germany’s worst prob-
lem,” adding' “And since it is
Germany’s worst problem it
might easily be Europe’s.”
“For these refugees,” declared
the “Daily Mail” staff man, re-
porting from Frankfurt, “are
the permanent, and very genu-
ine, grievance which we have
given Germany this time. They
will be her war-cry in any
nationalistic outburst. They will
be the motive power of any
irredentist crusade. There will
be no need for her to think up
far-fetched pretexts like Memel
this time. She has an undeni-
able wrong to be righted, a
wrong which touches almost
every home.”
The same observer put the
proportion of these refugee
Germans to others as one in six,
but in some parts “as high as
one in three”: “It is just as
though the entire populations of
Scotland, Wales and Ireland had
suddenly come flooding into
England, bringing nothing with
them.”
The very able woman writer
quoted earlier concludes her
“World Review” article on
them with the suggestion that
a policy of emigration would
enormously relieve the prob-
lem, “with psychological effects
that would surpass its material
effects”: - £ -
“These people suffer from
acute claustrophobia ; they feel
that they are shut up with their
enemies. If only some were
allowed to go all would have
hope. It is no use consulting the
United States on this point, for
she has no know-how about im-
migrants. Though her fortunes
were founded on the free flow of
industrious and able men and
women whom Europe had fed
and reared and who gave their
adult productiveness to the New
World, she is politically incap-
able of handling the process
now, even to her own ad-
vantage. It is a matter pre-
eminently for the British Com-
monwealth.”
The Scientist Spy.
The first British reaction of
apparently playing - down the
Fuchs case —an attitude which
definitely worried even Britain’s
best American friends has cer-
tainly changed since.
Even the Socialist Govern-
ment’s Press supporters have
expressed some concern, though
not, of course, noting that the
Communist scientist spy rose to
the near-top in Britain’s atomic
work and did his incalculable
damage under that Government.
These particular critics —“Tri-
bune,” “New Statesman,” etc.
—go gunning for a seapegoat
and blame everything on to
M. 1.5, the “security” outfit
whose records all along showed
Fuchs as a Communist.
Of others, the “Daily Ex-
press” pointed what must be the
most worrying aspect wherever
in democracies Communists are
treated as (to recall Mr. Chifley’s
prime boner) “political philoso-
phers” :
“This, then, is the kind of
organisation we face; not a
limited number of hired spies or
of Russian agents —the direct
spying is never done by Russians.
They merely direct the organisa-
tion for their selection of
recruits they have the range of
—London “Daily Mail."
“ There's a gentleman asking when it will be convenient to
arrange about the return match."
the 92,000 people who [in
Britain’s elections] voted Com-
munist.”
U.S. Foreign Policy.
As examined in a Washington
report in N. Y. “Herald Tri-
bune ” American foreign policy
is now perforce undergoing a
thorough sorting, with important
changes likely.
Recent U.S. policy had been
based on three main assump-
tions: (1) That the Soviet Union
wished to achieve its aims by
the peaceful conquest of infiltra-
tion. (2) That the American
monopoly on atomic weapons
would continue to operate as a
final safeguard against Soviet
aggression. (3) That there was,
therefore, all the time in the
world to win the cold war..
Those assumptions have palp-
ably gone haywire, and the
hydrogen-bomb’s entry has com-
pleted the confusion. Without
forecasting what new direction
will be taken, the report sug-
gests that it may finally be con-
cluded that no world settle-
ment can be negotiated with the
Kremlin. In that event “one
thing at least seems sure” ; that
“The cold war will at last be
recognised for what it is—a real
war, even although no shots are
being fired, with all a real war’s
first calls on resources, man-
power and national effort. Ex-
cept surrender, there is no other
way.”
In a more searching analysis,
based on recent policy state-
ments of Secretary of State
Acheson, “New York Times s
able Washington correspondent
James Reston represents Ache-
son as speaking and thinking on
the following lines:
(1) He has said that agreement
with the Soviet Union, rather
than its defeat and collapse, is
what he wants. “In other
words, he is not going along
with the subversive-war or pre-
ventive-war boys, which is some-
thing.”
(2) He is not going to ap-
pease the Russians at the ex-
pense of other peoples, and he is
not going to bribe them with
dollars, either.
(3) He is not going to rely on
any paper agreements with the
Russians and he is not going to
encourage anyone who thinks
such agreements are valuable. In
other words: no agreements
that depend on the good faith
of the Russians and no support
for anyone who thinks there is
a short or easy road to peace.
(4) He is willing to talk to the
Russians if they initiate the talk,
but he doesn’t think talk will do
any good. “You can’t argue
with a river ... You can dam it
up . . . You can deflect it. But
you can’t argue with it.”
Giving as the U.S. State Sec-
retary’s foreign - policy theme
Acheson’s own statement “We
are trying to extend the area of
possible agreement with the
Soviet Union by creating situa-
tions so strong that they can be
recognised, and out of them can
grow agreement,” the “New
York Times” man represents the
current State Department foreign
policy for the U.S. as still being
based broadly on the conclusion
that the Kremlin has not
slackened in its expectation of
Western economic collapse. Fol-
lowing is a general outline of
the State Department’s current
views as he interprets them:
(1) The Soviet leaders are still
unconvinced that the capitalist
world can avoid an economic
collapse. They are still of the
opinion that the United States
will run into a major economic
depression, that Britain s eco-
nomic ills are insoluble and that
the Western coalition will fall
apart before it has solved the
problems of economic readjust-
ment and military security.
“Therefore —despite the peace
feelers coming out of the Krem-
lin —Moscow is playing a wait-
ing game and will not make any
reasonable agreement with the
United States until we have
demonstrated beyond all doubt
that their hopes for collapse in
the West are not to be realised.
(2) The Communist victory in
China, the suspicion in Asia to-
wards collaboration with the
United States, Britain, France
and the Netherlands and the
divisions within the Western
coalition on how to deal with
Communist China and sou
east Asia have consolidated me
Russians’ conviction that time is
on their side.
(3) The recurring arguments
among the democracies over the
Marshall Plan, the “integration
of Western Europe and tn»
future of Germany, together
with the United States budget
deficit and the forthcoming ena
of the European Recovery P
gramme, are other factors that
make a “negotiated settlem
with the Russians unlikely.
(4) Therefore, while it woul
be pleasant to have an agre '
ment with the Soviet
about atomic energy, P
ganda, the Communist Inform
tion Bureau, Germany, Austn^
and south-east Asia, th
real hope of achieving this
agreement is to
the Russians that the f
Allies can make strong po nts o
their weak points in Europ ,
Asia and Africa. f
“This, then,” the analy s
U.S. policy sums up, is our
job; to keep the home f


H FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney s
leading hotels, hut different to
evefy other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
leen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, 100.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WEHTWORTH
in
"Phone BW 1361 (10 Itnea)
C. D. Macluxcan, Managing Director
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
J,
0
6 a
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Nu-METAL
SAVES
|NGIKE new
rebore rings
Sas?«S2”
10 Wh , Uc you dri '*' e -
piston slananlt i F lts and scorcs - Ends
teed IOOOnIV compression. Guaran-
eagine NUMptai harm]css to finest
been P. r °ved and
Bisny qL, ” J oo .’ ooo nsers since 1934,
three and f”, vin R. nscd NU-METAL
N ’i-METAI the same engine.
«le tube for ,. you 111 a se P ar -
•ng guess worV* cy * I , r l der .’ thus eliminat-
Engincers, etc use hn l p , al Councn s
'cuts for »“e NTJ-METaI. Treatment
37/6, 45/- An JL cyUndere > tO/6 ’ 30/-,
Mail t , e,or pbone MA7250.
Postal Charges, 1,031 COD ’» P»«s
Please , ORDER FORM
METAL to Sllf, me by return NU-
-1 enclose Ch^qa e —P.N CyUndcr Engine.
mT-Mffif Fo,d<a
Kame.
-••• b - 2 9/3/60,
f J? A ® ing COMPA
V
RIGHT FOR LIFE with
a Swan, a truly magnificent
pen clean in performance,
handsome in design with a
nib to suit every hand. At
all jewellers, stationers and
stores. From 37/3 to 88/9.
SWAN
PENS
SWAN H INKS
BREWED not merely mixed
4 brilliant colours and the
famous blue-black! Swan Inks
are clear and free-flowing, and
do not fade, thicken or corrode.
MABIE, TODD & CO.
(acst.) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
»/«*o
scurc economically and^syc^y
| oglc al y ( teag ) down (0 the
nerves), k> 6 . British eco-
fundam«"obtan (which has faded
"TofCe headlines, but is in
° . £ wavs more serious than it
. ,o build the military
fSJes of Western Europe so
fhal a secure bridgehead, at the
Sv least, is always available
In the Continent; to organise a
joint economic and security
nolicv from Alexandria to
Tokvo • to maintain at all times,
nsa deterrent to Soviet aggres-
sion the power of swift and
terrible retaliation and to get
the Allies together on policy to-
ward Asia as a whole and to-
ward Communist China in par-
ticular (which means United
States recognition of thb Peiping
r Tfhe snag in all this is that it
means more and more U.S.
financing on a huge scale, and
“in the present mood of Con-
gress only another dramatic
demonstration that we still have
no honorable alternative to the
cold war will produce the funds
to finance it effectively.”
60,000 Tons of
Whisky.
The London “Times Review
of Industry” for last month
gives a poignant illustration of
how the Old World (or at any
rate the Old Country) is being
drained out to redress the thirst
of the New.
It states that so great are the
consignments of whisky being
shipped from the Clyde that in
the returns of the Clyde Naviga-
tion Trust the precious stuff is
no longer entered in gallons or
cases but in tons!
“Whisky shipments have been
growing since 1942, and for the
past year aggregated over
60,000 tons,”
Giving the most recent figures,
th e “Manchester Guardian”
shows whisky to be easily
Britain’s best dollar-earner. In
1948 it was earning a monthly
average of $3,180,000. The
latest figure is $3,830,000.
Incidentally, these latest
figures show that “cars have
fallen behind woollen piece-
goods and linens” in British ex-
port to the same market.
China-Russia Pact.
In further editorial comment
“New York Times” differs even
more widely from London
“Economist,” which (as already
noted here) represented the
China-Russia agreement as a
triumph for Mao:
“Even if the agreement is
taken at its precise value it is
hard to see how China has made
any substantial gain. The
Chinese Communists have sold
out their chance to be inde-
pendent. On the face of it, the
price they got is impressively
low. If Mao was horse-trading
in Moscow he took a trimming
that ill befits the usually astute
Chinese bargainer....
“The real tragedy of this pact
is not a matter of political
boundaries or spheres of influ-
ence marked on a map. The
tragedy is that individual
Chinese have their chance to lead
a slightly less difficult life traded
away from th’em for the sake
of an advertised friendship with
an ally that has long since been
proved to be perfidious. China’s
raw materials, needed so des-
perately by the Chinese, are now
to be disposed at the wish of
and for the benefit of the Soviet
Union. China’s recovery, so
terribly dependent upon capital
goods, will be at the mercy of
a country that has met its own
needs for such goods only by
the complete disregard of every
human value.”
Security Illusions.
“The idea of achieving security
through national armaments is,
at the present state of military
technique, a disastrous illu-
sion.”
Thus Dr. Albert Einstein,
broadcasting in the land which
gave him refuge in his dire need
a few years back, and which he
further made quite clear was the
target he had in mind in letting
loose that particular shaft.
N. Y. “Herald Tribune,” edi-
torially taking hold of the
learned archer’s bolt and shoot-
ing it back at him, and a whole
quiverful with it, pointed out
that the apparently incontrovert-
ible statement was merely so
much camouflage over “an illu-
sion equally disastrous,” and
commented:
“That even the greatest of
theoretical physicists can still
speak vaguely, inaccurately and
with little wisdom on those diffi-
cult human and political issues
which have never lain within his
competence may not occur to
all of his listeners.
“If it is an illusion to imagine
that security can be achieved
through national armaments, it
is no less an illusion to suppose
that it can be achieved without
them in any immediate foresee-
able state of the world.
“Dr. Einstein’s description of
American policy since 1945 as
one of ‘security through superior
onilitary ■ power, whatever the
cost’ is at best a gross perver-
sion of history and motive;
actually the record has been one
of almost frantic efforts to
escape through the United
Nations, through economic aid,
through ap'peals to world
opinion, through military re-
trenchment—from the military
burdens which armed Soviet ex-
pansionism has remorselessly
thrust upon us.
“At its worst, Dr, Einstein’s
statement is an example of the
confusion in which these desper-
ate issues are too often debated.
Even if the problem were as he
states it, his advice would offer
no solution. To ‘do away with
mutual fear and distrust’ is be-
yond the power of any Ameri-
can policy which must breast
the Niagara of fear and distrust
poured out from every roaring
mouth of the Soviet propaganda
system; to call for a ‘supra-
national judicial and executive
body’ is mere vaporing when
none of the deep and concrete
issues that have rendered abor-
tive even the first beginnings in
that direction has as yet been
faced.
“This kind of thing is useless
for our actual problems ; instead
of elucidating it can only con-
ceal their real nature. It is not
true that armaments have always
‘caused’ war ; it is not true that
mere disarmament and pious
hope have ever prevented war;
it does not follow that because
there has appeared behind the
work on a hydrogen-bomb at
least a theoretical possibility of
destroying all life on earth, this
must be the inevitable result or
is even likely to be. It is true
that we stand in difficult and
perilous times and that nothing
—neither bombs or armaments
on the one hand, nor frantic
dreams of ‘world government’ or
‘goodwill’ on the other —will
guarantee our security. There
is no guarantee of security;
there never has been in the great
adventure of humanity and
there never will be. But the
nearest approach to one has
always lain in the ability to use
with nerve, resolution and skill
all the instruments at hand,
whether political, economic,
social or military. Reason and
force are equally indispensable,
but courage is the greatest de-
fence of all.”
Pacific Argosy.
Ever since man launched his
first coracle the mystery beyond
far blue horizons has called
him. Today great turbo-driven
ships have reduced the romance
of sea-travel to the excitement
of a tightly «• fitting railway
schedule. 1 Even so, now and
again an incurable adventurer
shoves off into the stretching ex-
panse, relying for propulsion on
the winds of heaven and for
security on hand-built planks
and the skill and experience of
his own tiller-hand.
Only once in the legend-
recorded history of sea-travel
had a band of such adventurers
relied on currents wreathing the
ocean’s face itself; that was
nearly 900 years ago, when a
Peruvian chief, Kon-Tiki, de-
feated in battle near Lake Titi-
caca, gathered his people on
their Stone Age Dunkirk and
disappeared into the untracked
vastness on big rafts. Once, that
was, until five tough young Nor-
wegians and a Swede, to prove
their belief in the legend,
launched in 1948 a similar raft
from Callao and, borne on the
breath of the sea, ended their
4300-mile journey across the
Pacific on Raroia, in the
Tuamota Archipelago.
The story of that reckless and
remarkable voyage, in the Eng-
lish translation, is being pub-
lished in London by Allen and
Unwin, and has been given a
preliminary airing in the
“Times.”
Legend decreed the first were
balsa rafts ; so up into the weep-
ing rain-forests of Quivedo
searched leader Thor Heyerdahl
and his enthusiastic band, to
roll 20 gigantic balsa logs into
the riv.er and drift them down
to the sea at Guayaquil,
Alongside the modern grey
length of submarines under the
concrete walls of Callao naval
basin the raft was built to an
age-old design; for rudder a
tough-as-steel mangrove pole,
for help a simple square sail
and for protection a rough bam-
boo hut-cabin.
Shoving off into the Hum-
boldt current, they had their
first test early, when a liquid
green mountain reared its white
crest upon them three days out.
They hung on grimly. Instead
of disintegrating the legend-built
Kon-Tiki swung up skyward un-
perturbed and slid confidently
down the shoulders of the
comber.
For 97 days they drifted, held
in the grip ©f the south equa-
torial current, through calm and
wind and wet, and, on a creature
of the sea itself, through a
stupendous, unfrightened and
undreamed-of aquarium. Once
they drifted into a battlefield of
infuriated big fish, tunnies
savaging schools of dolphin,
and sharks, Crazed with blood,
boring into the fray. And all
the time on the so-called track-
less ocean, in reality on a broad,
moving highway, they drifted
steadily on, averaging 43 miles
a day.
Then, on July 30, they sighted
a white line of breakers, a speck
of land staying the advance of
combers which for over 4000
miles had rolled free from South
America. They drifted past and
on until, on the 101st day, the
current veered them suddenly to-
wards the treacherous, wave-
white reefs of Raroia.
Inexorably closer, with the
surf’s murmur crescendoing to a
pounding, hungry roar. The
company donned their shoes for
the first time in four months and
clung desperately to the raft’s
stays. Then they were in the
maelstrom ; Kon-Tiki reared and
changed as if by magic into
chewed splinters, and a succes-
sion of battering water-walls re-
duced the voyagers to cold fear
before contemptuously tossing
them on to a ledge on the reef.
From that water-mad hell the
party crawled ashore to a white,
zephyr-caressed beach of heaven,
complete with palms, green
coconuts and heavily-perfumed
white blossoms. They fell oti
their knees and embraced the
warm, bone-dry sand.
For Kon-Tiki it was the grave
of an honorable derelict; for
Thor the supreme vindication
of his theory ; and for the whole
company the aipazed and cordial
welcome from the Governor at
Tahiti.
Dragnet Digest.
The Threat to India.—The flood,
that is, of Chinese Communism,
threatening Tibet and Nepal; a threat
not to India only, as London “News
Chronicle” points out: “If they fall,
Communism stands upon her [lndia sj
borders. The threat to India is a
threat to us also, for India is'the
heartland of democracy in the East.
The pattern of Japanese conquest is m
danger of being repeated in Asia. We
know what came of failing to oppose
that when it began.” After which
high words, the diagnoser rather
waters down the prescription: The
resources of U.N.O. should be
mobilised to hold Communist China
in check if she threatens to overflow
her borders. The resources of the
free world should be made available
to fight poverty and ignorance
Asia. There is little time to lose.
* * * *
Quite Another Joe. —A London
“News Chronicle” scribe recalls a
war-time report (which history may
record as possibly apocryphal but
true enough in essence) that Russian
officials were deeply upset because a
telegram from Lady Cripps in London
to her husband in Moscow expressed
the hope that Joe was behaving him-
self They had then just learned
that the irreverent British referred to
Generalissimo Stalin as “Uncle Joe,
but they had not learned that the
Embassy Airedale bore the same dis-
tinguished name.
* * * *
“Prince of Peace.” —Some N. Y.
“Herald Tribune” predictions on
future recipients of the annual Stalin
peace prize:. “Molotov, whose icily
unco-operative diplomacy has so
uiion 2Ttfe
Nazis in 1939-41; Vyshinsky, whose
savage oratory has tom the war-
mon B er * limb f l om limb ’> Be “ a * wbo >
£
vast internal domain ; and Stalin,
already held responsible for everything
j? modern art > sci T ce > cubu u re > P° !l ‘
* * * *
Unesco Opportunities.— Listed by
L?' in
the cause of mutual understanding
among the peoples of the world” is
tbat . I .9 r B anisati ,°"i s yearly list of
ing abroad. This year’s list has
grown from 15,000 opportunities
gow %rVd "by"?"" s countries 8 in
1949-50. Three thousand teachers
are taking part in exchanges between
In nno Untr i es An 000 !L r i^fc 9
30,000 and 40,000 workers were en-
abied to pay visits abroad for voca-
tional and cultural purposes.”


KEEP YOUR
RIGHT FOR WRITING
Buy several
refills today!
All Biro British Ballpoint Pens
are refillable. Don’t let your
Biro lie idle ! See your nearest
supplier now ! Biro Refills are
guaranteed, and specially
prepared and tested to suit
local climatic conditions.
For convenience, buy
several Biro Refills at a
time. They do not
deteriorate.
AT STATIONERS,
JEWELLERS, STORES
v
; i iU ■I s
■. * - * .
■
'
Minor
Refills 3/9
Magnum
Refills 3/9
Biroette
Biromatic
Refills 2/11
Biro
a pen for your thoughts
fat. Nos. 122Q73—8 J3ee.,1943. 133163—91 Deg.. 1948
SCS
: - ••<
11
:' ■ •
■ • : x ; :
> "if'
w-:v vg
aif-f/ae
TYRES
/00% /fustra/fM •• • £6a/”p /, o' ! '* 0i
,/f/te
OT 3 5
16 SO
OO'.ICT OF THE OLYMPIC
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No, I CUP
The No, I Drink
for wise men
“Beer may go up this week.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
But it’ll still go down.
,*b 4* .4*
Queenly woman desires to meet a
middle-aged man, some means, view
mat.” — Advt.
Seems more like a lady-in-
waiting.
4* 4* 4*
In a Lather.
“Child contestants are a headache
to radio sponsors.”— “Time.”
“ And remember the
name: Fizzy—the soap that
contains not only sodium
toluol and hepti glycol for the
skin, but also traces of fat and
caustic soda for that big lather
—the soap that brings you this
Monster Kiddy Quip Competi-
tion! Now, who is this first
contestant?”
“Willie Jones.”
“Good for you. Willie Jones,
eh? Willie Win’s more to the
point. Uff-uff-uff. Are you
nervous, Willie?”
“No.”
“Get that quip, folks? ‘No,’
he says. Great boy. Give him
a hand! Now, Willie, what do
you think of when I say
‘Fizzy Soap’?”
“Vulcanised rubber.”
“Eh?”
“That’s what Mum said
when I brought a cake home by
mistake. It bounced. ‘Vul-
canised rubber,’ she said. ‘Take
it back to the grocer and get a
cake of “Flako” like I told
you.’ ” (Announcer staggers
back as audience cheers wildly.)
Plop.
4* 4* 4*
“Women verging toward the forty
mark may well take stock.”
— Woman’s mag.
And resolve in most cases to
reduce the amount carried.
4* 4* 4*
“An oral surgeon has invented an
operation to anchor false teeth to the
jawbone.” —Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Oh buoy!
4* 4* 4*
“Women are invited to bring a
sandwich to eat during discussion.”
—Church notice.
A triple-decker for preference.
4* 4* 4*
“Australian husbands imprison
their wives too much in the home.”
—American visitor Cyrus T. Brady.
It’s nice to think they get in
a sentence now and then.
4* 4* 4*
“Don Tallon and an Australian
pressman inspected the wicket. ‘lt
looks OK. You can put me down
for 86,’ said Tallon.” —Sydney “Sun.”
Pitching for himself.
Just Won’t Go Down.
“As a fervid Marx Brothers fan,
Hecht°tcf keep‘me away bom theTr
films. We might just as well start
banning German music of Italian
spaghetti.”—Sydney “Sunday Sun.
Of all the arts that man invented
The one which chiefly has
resented
A limitation on its scope
To furnish him with joy and
h°P e
Is surely music, whose supporters
Include all mankind’s sons and
daughters
Without the least consideration
Of color, creed, of caste or
nation.
, _ , , ,
So let us flock along to hear
Sweet themes inspired by Ger-
man beer
And savor in our southern land
Strains favored by a Teuton
band ;
Yet surely none will call us
petty
If we refuse to have spaghetti
Usdd as the motif for a show
Confined to one note—namely
dough.
D.H.E.
The Skin Game.
“Then there is the woman who
simply must have some particular
item of fashion, and she’ll never rest,
When, for instance, she buys
a crocodile-skin handbag, and,
after traipsing town, fails to get
shoes which are a perfect match
for it,- her husband, if he would
know real peace again, may as
well grab guns and gear and
light out for the far north. As
probably he has never before
shot, snared or cajoled into cap-
tivity a saurian, a few hints by
an expert may not be amiss.
Crocodiles fall chiefly into two
classes: those capable of biting
a man in halves with one snap
of the jaws and those taking
two or more bites. It is best,
therefore, to select a croc, in the
latter category, as, if anything
goes wrong and he does get a
bite in, the hunter will be only
half bitten through, and there is
always the possibility then that
the croc, may become tired or
disinterested and not complete
the severing process.
There may also be met with
an odd—a very odd —elderly
croc, which, whether through
calcium deficiency in diet or
through its shortsightedly mis-
taking logs for abos. and leaving
its tombstones buried in them,
or through contracting pyorrhea
or jinjivitis, is so bereft of teeth
that the utmost damage it could
inflict would be a severe suck
that might, at most, wear the
hair off a man’s arm or leg.
The amateur hunter would
be advised to look for such a
croc. It may readily be dis-
tinguished by the number of
rings around its trunk —or am I
thinking of trees or elephants?
Anyway, a tendency to corpu-
lence (not to be confused, how-
ever, with the distended stomach
due to the saurian’s having just
masticated a couple of water-
buffaloes), a creaking of its
joints when turning, and its
emitting a grunt in a feeble
soprano instead of the usual
hearty basso - profundo, are
almost sure signs of approach-
ing, if not actual, senility, with
a consequent lack of teeth.
Should there be a dearth of
“gummies,” whose capture
offers no difficulties beyond an
easy matter of throw-and-tie,
the hunter will be compelled to
stalk the more lethal type.
By far the safest method in
dealing- with these is to con-
centrate on those enjoying a
post-prandial nap on a mud-
bank. After donning his spiked
running-shoes the hunter would
be well advised on approaching
to “cut” the engine of his boat
at least 30ft. from the bank so
as not to disturb the croc.
Taking with him the croc.-
skin bag, which he would, of
course, have brought, the hunter
should tiptoe noiselessly up to
the croc, and with extreme
caution and gentleness lift a leg
so that its underbelly is exposed
and put the bag against it. If
it is a perfect match he may
then set his trap.
This is simplicity itself.
Previously he would have shot
a few goats or wild pigs, gutted
them, filled, the cavities with
heavy granite stones and sewn
them up again. Taking one of
these from the boat, he silently
places it close to the croc’s
nose u n i ts h k t th , '
£*
‘ ,
When the croc, wakes he
natura lly bolts the feed—it
Would never stop to wonder
why half a goat should suddenly
appear. The hunter should keep
repeating this (after the croc.
has slept after each feed) until
he estimates it is carrying no
less than four hundredweight of
ballast, then he may safely make
a decoy of himself. While he
nimbly covers the few yards be-
tween the bank and the boat the
croc., lumbering after him with
the ballast rattling violently,
will fail to bridge the gap, going
straight to the bottom. It is
then only a matter of diving
down, snapping a stout rubber-
band over its jaws, putting a
half-hitch over its tail and tow-
ing it to shore, where, half-
drowned. it may be
snoozing oneMhe
have to be stalked in the ri ve“
Here, should the hunter siohf
mg a distant croc., step of t
atf'th ‘I 10 get a be «“ “hoi
and the log starts to move
swiftly upstream, he should im
mediately start hauling himf f
into the boat by the rope Xl
he would prudently have ”3
around his neck against just
such a contingency.
If, some little time after the
hunter has fired at a croc, be
finds the boat half-full 0 f water
he will become aware that his
bullets are ricocheting instead of
penetrating. Here he may have
to substitute an elephant-gun in-
stead of the usual ,225. Similarly
in case he is in a rowing-boat
and going to load his elephant-
gun when a croc, charges, and
finds that he has only brought
with him a packet of ,225. it
would be as well to have as
companion a world-champion
sculler.
Should he, having no gun
with him, be trapped on land by
an infuriated crocodile, the
hunter’s best plan is to make
for a tree and keep running
around it, inducing the croc, to
follow. If he has been training
by doing old-time waltzing the
hunter will not get giddy; when
the croc, does, and falls, it is a
simple matter to stuff two
chloroform-soaked rags up its
nostrils. Alternatively, by keep-
ing the croc, close to the tree its
armored spikes will act as a cir-
cular-saw, causing the tree to be
cut through and flattening the
croc.
After having got home with
the right skin, however, the
probability is that the hunter’s
wife will have decided she
doesn’t like crocodile-skin shoes,
anyway, and would prefer a
snake-skin ones,
BO


Missing Friend.
OBRETENOFF. —Anyone knowing the
whereabouts of next-of-kin of DRAGON
OBRETENOFF, born in Bulgaria, and at
one time resided in Sydney, are asked to
communicate with T. J. PURCELL,
Solicitor, of 66 King Street, Sydney.
Wtflf
SWis
The
liqhtW
to
<olls lighter is precision built
unfailing service. Fully auto-
with built-in wjndguard, spare
cess. Five year guarantee.
depend
Every
■— tor
matic,
flint recess.
Chrome 39/6.
Oistriboted by WILCOX MOFFLIN L|m|ted
Bolls
on if
mm
n n
iIOQD
gap □
god a
SQEM
BIS*
&
rsm.
*5
L
A lifetime of study may he
given to the art of
choosing the appropriate
from so much which is
just very good. Yet, where
cigarettes are concerned
the name “Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London 99
is an unfailing guide —
for all those occasions
when only the best will do.
In
tins of 20
3/-
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
WS MAJESTY THE ICING
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
JftiEWSfflM*and HES2^]ES a
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILLRUM.
_ the worries besetting owners
One of tn or go back wa s
and trainers a century o horses
There was
from meeting i „ , and,
n 0 alternative t those days
i, n H tn i? ‘.'SthS.g. rather, deteriorated
since (he Romans first laid them.
Although there is record of a Mr.
Tn-Vritt using a “horse-van” as far
hack as 181 S 6, the first real step on
the pa?h which was to lead to present-
ivtransDort of racehorses was taken
Lord George Bentinck, a worthy
pxerted a tremendous influence
rn h °every SUon upon the devehop-
ment of racing as we know it today.
The forerunner of modern h° rse '
floats was an unwieldy horse-draw
monstrosity built to transport Ben-
S’s horse Elis to Doncaster for
the 1836 St. Leger, which he won.
This contraption managed to cover
about 40 miles a day.
It has taken several thousand years
to evolve the horse, and at least a
few hundred years to develop the
modem thoroughbred. On the other
hand, it has taken less than half a
century to develop modern road- and
air-transport. One is inclined to
wonder if nature has managed to
keep abreast of science—if the horse
has had time to adjust himself to
being shuttled around the countryside
almost overnight, as is lately the
practice. Noting instance after in-
stance of the business of top-class
horses, in winning form, being
whipped of! to another State and
then failing first-up in races which
had looked fairly easy money for
them, present writer is fast develop-
ing a firm determination to have no
part of horses having their first run
shortly after a comparatively rushed
inter-State trip.
Latest instance to hand was the
failure of odds-on favorite Delta in
the w.-f.-a. Rawson Stakes at Rose-
hill on Saturday. Delta had arrived
in Sydney the previous Saturday,
leaving Melbourne on the Friday
after winning the King’s Plate on
the Wednesday and the St. Leger on
the Saturday previous to that. Of
course, any number of other factors
may have been responsible for Delta’s
Rosehill defeat. The colt may have
simply had an off day; he may not
have been suited by the switch back
to 9 furlongs after two wins in Mel-
bourne at 14 furlongs; and, apart
from anything else, Dickens, who
beat Delta, may eventually prove to
be really the better colt. But we’ll
await further evidence of that.
The Rawson Stakes has rather a
bad record as far as concerns punters
who care to lay the bookies the odds.
Last year De La Salle started at 10
to 9 on and ran third. Much
further back there was the memorable
occasion when Ajax started at 40 to
lon and was tossed. On Saturday
Delta started at 6 to 4 on, with
onowstream, Vagabond, Dickens and
Uark Marne next in demand and
firearm, at any price, the only other
l^ nae , r - Regardless of reasons for
tJelta s defeat, Dickens turned in a
me performance in leading all the
a J 0 5 6 ? 1 suc fi a high-class field
fnn r a journey. After
o lo W mg D i cken S all the way> Delta
. hl , m in the straight, but
ana . t 0 ¥. ve no stin S in h is finish,
a . sa e |y held to three-parts of
dicitpn Vr, . D u ark Marne’s third in-
nn tkat t h‘ s proven stayer is by
nevTnn 5 discarded from Syd-
ney tup calculations.
Ihe M 7 n L? onCa^ r cand idates tackled
of them °r 8S Ra , llw . a y Quality, and
The r*’ Euzma rk in winning, and
fourth™ 1 !! W i th a fast-finishing
The SO t rf le u tke h es t impression,
a crack .t’ 1 chance Tartan Girl had
but Hu?™ T mni ng from go to whoa,
tance anH ? C ° llared h er at the
mun e ai ? d won comfortably. Bungy-
not \eadilv aS n abil - ty w h ich one does
Poor-sonnSn asSoclate „ with such a
able third mg D name > finished a credit-
be one of tbP UZmars S will P rotr ably
in the Dnn^f 11108 - fancied runners
went m,r? Caster; in the spring he
after hittirm V rt? te /° r th - e E P s °m, but,
nittmg the front inside the dis-
tance, weakened, and was comfort"
ably beaten by Denali. Though most
of Buzmark’s wins have been at less
than a mile, there is nothing m his
breeding to suggest lack of stamina,
and in August last year he won a
9-furlongs Mixed Stakes, beating,
among others, Benvolo and Sir
Falcon.
Sydney Cup candidates —apart from
those who contested the Rawson
Stakes—tackled the Rosehill Cup at
a shade over 12 furlongs. The handi-
capper made a fair fist of assessing
this field, Hurry Up and Persist
heading the weights with 8.7 and 8.6
respectively, and finishing in that
order, with only the barest whisker
between them. Persist was in front
nearing the posts, but Hurry Up had
the run on her, and, coming on the
outside, just gained an edge on the
mare. Hurry Up has disappointed
many times since winning the Queens-
land Cup, but Saturday’s win may
indicate a return to best form, and
any horse who can run two miles in
3.21-i-, as Hurry Up did in the
Queensland Cup, deserves to be
respected for the Sydney Cup.
Yet another Sydney Cup pointer
brought to light in Saturday’s racing
was Sir Falcon’s ridiculously easy
victory in the Three- and Four-year-
old Handicap (10f.). With the others
mostly a mediocre bunch, it simply
wasn’t a race. Sir Falcon taking the
lead at the turn and scooting away
to beat Indian Chief by eight lengths.
Although beaten pointless, the three-
year-old Red Loch made a fair im-
pression in running third after being
last most of the trip. Red Loch is
a son of the AJ.C. Summer Cup
winner Red Sails, and is beautifully
bred on staying lines. Red Sails was
by the Tracery horse Pantheon out
of the Magpie mare Sweet Land.
Loch Awe, the dam of Red Loch,
was by Doric (another son of Tracery)
out of Loch Tay, by Charlemagne 11,
a son of St. Simon.
* $ * *
Hot on the heels of this page’s
criticism last week of Melbourne
prizemoney—criticism aimed, be it
emphasised, not so much at the clubs
as at the excessive Government grab
of tote revenue —the V.A.T.C. has
announced very substantial increases
in the added money attached to some
forthcoming events —principally the
Caulfield Cup, which has been
bumped up to £lO,OOO. There are
now six Australian races with prize-
money in the five-figure category—
the Caulfield, Melbourne, Sydney
and Brisbane Cups, the AJ.C. Derby
and the Doomben Ten Thousand.
Other increases announced by the
V.A.T.C. were Caulfield Guineas
from 3000 guineas to 5000 guineas;
One Thousand Guineas from that
figure to 2500 guineas; and Futurity
Stakes from £3OOO to £4OOO.
There was no ground for complaint
in the handsome prize of £5600 put
up by the Moonee Valley Racing Club
for Saturday’s Alister Clark Stakes —
winner’s cut, £3750 and £lOO trophy;
£lOOO for sec'ond, £5OO for third and
£250 for fourth. It is pleasing to
see in more and more of the major
handicaps allotment of a fourth
prize.
The club’s provision of this excel-
lent prize was well rewarded when
the Alister Clark Stakes produced the
sort of race that inspires a warm
glow in any horse-lover, regardless of
their betting on the race or not, as
was evidenced by the loudest and
most-prolonged outburst of spon-
taneous applause heard on a Mel-
bourne racecourse in ages. The race
looked a match between Comic Court
and Chicquita, and, as they entered
the straight, the two champions
quickly drew ahead of the field to
fight it out neck and neck, stride by
stride, to the post. However, although
Chicquita did not relent for an
instant, Comic Court gradually
lifted himself to a narrow advan-
tage, winning by a neck. Champion
that he is, Comic Court carried 9.4
to the filly’s 8.1, and the track was
as heavy as lead.
The really surprising feature of the
main race was the betting. Unless
the bookies were really anxious to
give money away, a supposition which
can be regarded with suspicion, there
must have been solid backing for
some of the other runners. Chic-
quita started at twos and Comic Court
at 5 to 2 —incredibly good odds about
what looked, and proved, to be a
two-horse race.
Apart from this odd" lapse into
generosity the bookies had rather
the better of the battle at the Valley,
though a couple of favorites were
successful. Star Port (W. William-
son) at twos was much the most-
fancied runner in the Woodlands
Highweight (6f.), and did the job in
good style, scoring from Bidwell and
Greensborough. The 13 - furlongs
Moonee Ponds Handicap was a more
open betting race, but the Dashing
Cavalier five-year-old Dashing Beau
held as a steady favorite, and con-
vincingly defeated Red Fury and
Chatsol.
Slick Chick, in the Hollymount
Handicap for two-year-olds, was the
shortest favorite of the day, but the
job of lumping 9st. on the heavy track
proved too much for the Hua filly,
who was beaten two-lengths by Har-
monia (J. Purtell), carrying only 7.11.
Another topweight and favorite who
found the going a bit solid was
Draftsman, beaten into third place
in the mile Sherwood Handicap; the
25-to-l shot Patena (T. Ring), who
won well from Thistle, carried the
minimum 7st.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) :
Warwick Trial Stakes ; Red Loch,
1; Traveller, 2; Hughenden, 3. Fair-
field Handicap: Titian, 1; Matter-
horn, 2; Lassie White, 3. Cobbitty
Handicap: Playboy, 1; King’s Coin,
2; Dona Marcheta, 3. Liverpool
Handicap: The Groom, 1; Lord
Moss, 2; Hisign, 3. Warwick Farm
Autumn Handicap: Dark Marne, 1;
Bruce, 2; Benvolo, 3. Cabramatta
Handicap: Bold Archer, 1; Beau
China, 2; Silverjax, 3.
♦ * * *
Little wonder that English book-
makers are prepared to lay 3 to 1
against the chances of any particular
horse completing the gruelling Aintree
Grand National course; in Saturday’s
running of the world’s toughest
jumping event only seven of 49
starters got round safely. Winner was
the 10-to-l favorite Freebooter, ridden
by J. Power and scoring by 15 lengths
from Wot No Sun (100 to 7) and
Acthon Major (100 to 3). It is more
than 20 years since a favorite won
the big race, the last being Sprig, at
8 to 1, in 1927.
* * * *
When word came back that Cremin
was one under par at the 14th in the
final 18 of the McWilliams Wines
£2500 golf tournament at the Aus-
tralian Club (Sydney) on Saturday it
meant he had but “to stand up” to
win and the crowd could expect no
surprises—the four best pros would
fill the first four places. It was
Cremin, Rees (Eng.), Pickworth, Von
Nida.
Dai Rees, the British Open cham-
pion, chipped out an approach at
the 72nd for a birdie three, which put
him three strokes in front of every-*
body except Cremin, who came in
with a grand-69 for a 283 (one under
par for the 72); Rees, 285; Pick-
worth, 288; Von Nida, 289. Rees
is a charming fellow and a crowd-
pleaser, Cremin is a most unassum-
ing and pleasant chap; a win for
either was certain to be popular.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
The Australian cricketers finished
their tour of S’Africa on about the
same note that they had started on
and maintained throughout, beating a
South African XI by an innings and
88 runs in the final match at Jo’burg.
Scores were: Australia, 227; S’Africa,
49 and 90.
Across the Tasman the other Aus-
tralian cricket tourists are also having
pretty much of a picnic. Time ran
out in the first unofficial Test last
week, which resulted in a draw —Aus-
tralia, 299; New Zealand, 231 and
nine for 76—a moral victory. At
Palmerston North, Bill Brown’s lads
tackled Manawatu, and, after declar-
ing at seven for 312, outed the
opposition for 101 and 128, to win
by an innings and 83. Next on the
schedule was a match v. Hawkes Bay
at Napier, where the Australians
seemed in little danger of defeat as
this went to press—Hawkes Bay, 101;
Australia, three for 184, with Meule-
man 119 and looking set for twice
that score.
* * * *
The Rugby Union season due to
kick off in a week or so will be a
particularly interesting one for both
players and followers. Highlight of
the season will be a visit by a British
team doing a combined tour of New
Zealand and Australia. It’s 20 years
since a British side visited these parts,
but old hands recall with enthusiasm
the fine exhibitions of the last tourists.
Following an eight-weeks tour of
New Zealand, the visitors will hit
Australia early in August for a
schedule of six matches. They are
to play Canberra on the 9th, N.S.W.
in Sydney on the 12th, Australia at
Brisbane on the 19th, Australia at
Sydney on the 26th, Metropolitan
area at Sydney on the 29th and
N.S.W. at Newcastle on the 2nd
September. It will be interesting to
see what 20 years and a world war
have done to the homeland of
Rugger.
For many years regarded as the
Cinderella of the code, Australia is
making a strong bid for supremacy
at Rugby Union. In post-war over-
seas tours Wallaby teams have played
seven Tests and lost only two —
beaten by two penalty goals to nil
by Wales and 14 points to three by
France. Victims have been England,
Ireland, Scotland and New Zealand
(twice). In the years immediately
prior to the Hitler rampage South
Africa beat all-comers to establish
itself as the king-pin country of
Rugby Union. Last season the
S’Africans showed themselves still in
good form by stoushing New Zea-
land. Australia will have its chance
to prove itself against the formidable
Springboks during the 1951 season;
a team is to be chosen at the end of
the coming season to sail for S’Africa
early in ’5l.
* * * *
Striking into the final stages of
their preparation for the Head of the
River, to be rowed at Penrith
(N.S.W.) on April 15, several Sydney
G.P.S. crews made an appearance at
the J. 8.. Sharp Memorial Regatta on
the Iron Cove course, Sydney, last
Saturday. The usual strong Sydney
High combination was impressive in
finishing second, beaten three-parts
of a length by the Sydney Club crew,
in the State junior eights champion-
ship. In connection with rowing the
t£rm “junior” has nothing to do with
the age of competitors. A crew of
octogenarians can contest a junior
race, the only qualification being that
they have never won a senior race.
G.P.S. crews look an even bunch this
year; more will be seen of them at
the always-excellent Riverview Gold
Cup regatta, to be rowed on the Lane
Cove course next Saturday. Also of
interest will be the appearance of
several members of the victorious
Empire Games eight rowing with
club crews.
* * * *
At Sydney Stadium last week Aus-
tralian champion Dave Sands and an
Hawaiian person, Olson, yclept “Bo-
bo,” furnished a pugilistic display
which was singular in its unmitigated
dullness. The pair were in the ring
for 12 rounds, during two of which
they indulged in a mild form of
fisticuffs. Unfortunately, these were
the first and the last, so that, to see
both, the suffering spectator had to
endure the lot. Sands on points.


Your next move
l'-V
ga
m
&
for better prices, consign
A.M.L.&F. specialists handle your
wool skilfully from its arrival in
Store to the fall of the hammer—■
with, greater returns and less ■worry
for you! There’s a network of
Branches throughout the pastoral
areas—consult the A.M.L.&F.
man at your nearest Branch
and get the best cheque possible
m any season!
87 Yeors in the Service of the Mon on the Land.
four flip
to
A.M.Ib.K
/nc. in England, 1863,
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
liead Office for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches:— N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Cowra,
ocone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina, Oooma and Deniliquin.
Q’tand; Townsville, Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi,
associate agents Mcphie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and
Plttsworth, Yeatea Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, H. P. Yeness & Co. Pty,,
Ltd., Winton. Ftc.; Wodonga, Korumburra.
"Phenovis" Worm Remedy
w nc% tb* is .
mg me!
/
////
>/
//'/•
Y//'a
**rrz-.
///W'
//
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
'PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
sd
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
“PHE-2-X-8191
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Worm Danger.
“Pheno”: The right drench is
phenothiazine, but it will not
perform miracles, and must be
supported by all the preventive
measures mentioned by “Murra-
wong” (B. 8/ 3 / ’5O). Under
present wet-season conditions
sheep carry very large worm
burdens, which include many
young worms. Young worms
are much harder to kill than
adult worms. The greater the
number of worms the greater the
kill required to leave a harmless
residue. No drench is 100 per
cent, effective in every sheep on
every occasion. The C.5.1.R.0.
recommends doubling the dose
of phenothiazine for young
sheep. Although expensive, it is
essential if outbreaks are to be
stopped in time.
Once weaners have been re-
duced to walking skeletons be-
cause of loss of appetite and
scouring they recover very
slowly, even when their worm
burdens have been reduced.
Some never recover. Immediate
provision of ample and appetis-
ing feed is as important as
drenching. Lucerne as hay,
chaff or grazing is particularly
good.
As to when to drench, there
are many considerations. An
annual preventive plan should be
related to the district, its climate
and the species of worms com-
mon to it. The local veterinary
officer is the man to put you
right for timing a programme.
In emergencies it is essential to
recognise the conditions which
favor the parasites. Rainfall is
first; it should be a rule to
drench about three weeks after
a good fall of rain extending
over several dull days. If the
level of nutrition falls at any
time from any cause a drench
will relieve the sheep of some
of the parasites which are sharing
its food. If sheep are seen to
be overcrowding any area, be
it pasture or crop, it is a danger-
signal calling for a drench.
To sum up, phenothiazine is
the right drench for most
worms (liver-fluke and tape-
worm excepted) and the right
time depends on weather, feed
and watching the grazing habits
of the sheep.
Sorghum in N.T.
“Oxo”; According to W.
Armdt, officer -in - charge of
Katherine (N.T.) C.5.1.R.0. ex-
periment farm, there are no ex-
tensive areas in the Territory
which would grow grain sorg-
hum without soil treatment.
Small plots at station home-
steads had been successful, but
there was no area capable of
producing sorghum on a com-
mercial scale.
Possibly on the best soils a
passable crop could be grown
with superphosphate, but under
present conditions this would
not be economical. Questioned
about the reported success of
sorghum on Stuart Plains, near
Newcastle Waters, Armdt said
he was certain it held no pros-
pects. Stuart Plains comprised
a whitish-grey clay of extremely
low fertility, and the average
rainfall there was only 20in., too
low for sorghum cultivation;
the rainfall was very unreliable.
Sorghum planted in soil from
Stuart Plains under experimental
conditions and given all the
water it required had grown to
a height of only 15in. in four
months, and would not come to i
head. It seemed certain that the |
anticipated yield of two tons per
acre would not eventuate, and
even if it did there were almost
insurmountable transport ob-
stacles, the station being 400
miles from Darwin.
Only when a proper system of
fertilisation of soil, crop-rota-
tion and management was dis-
covered would grain sorghum
become a Northern Territory
possibility.
Light Stocking Paid.
“Archaps”: J. W. Creedon,
Connemara, Augathella, is satis-
fied that it pays to stock lightly,
at least in his part of Queens-
land.
Connemara comprises 15,000
acres of downs, brigaiow and
gidyea country, and it was cus-
tomary to run between 5000 and
6000 sheep. In an effort to im-
prove the clip the number was
cut three years ago to a maxi-
mum of 4000. The sheep are pure
Burenda blood, and for eight
years the manager of Burenda
(J. T. Gildia) has been the classer.
Of the total Connemara clip
this season (140 bales) only 76
were eligible for the last Bris-
bane wool-sales, and these
averaged 109.05 d. per lb., the
highest price being 119fd. and
the lowest 104 d. Some 20-
month-old wether hoggets cut
just on 141 b. and ewes just over
131 b. Breeding ewes, which had
reared 80 per cent, of lambs,
cut just on 121 b. All the sheep
had just 12 months’ wool
growth.
In a good season, such as the
property has experienced in
recent months, Creedon says the
sheep build up a nice big frame,
and in periods of light rainfall
there is not the worry of carry-
ing stock for which there is no
feed,
Wealher-wom Wood.
“Horseless Horseman”: To
treat weather-worn timber in a
wooden house or garden fence
which has been up some years
and has never been painted, give
the outside a dressing of equal
parts of crude creosote and raw
oil.
Then in. 12 to 18 months’
time, when the creosote has be-
come air-slack and has lost its
greasy surface, paint the house
or fence in the usual way, that
is, with two undercoats and at
least one finishing coat. The
creosote and oil, as well as
“I told you not to eat so much calcium !”
being the best of timber-pre-
servatives, is a preventive against
wood-boring insects.
A house treated this way looks
equally as good as one which
has had the weather-worn fluff
scraped off it and has been red-
leaded before painting, and it’s
less than a quarter of the labor.
A Weed Menace.
“Sarina”: Queensland’s ghom-
prena weed was once considered
harmless to stock, but the
Agricultural Department now
reports that it causes “coastal
staggers” in horses.
The weed is closely related to
the everlasting garden “bachelor-
button” flower. My experience
suggests that the pretty purple-
flowered “button” sometimes
reverts back to the unattractive
greyish-white flowered ghom-
prena. Bachelor-buttons grew
on this C.Q. farm years ago and
then died out and were replaced
by masses of ghomprena in the
more closely-grazed paddocks.
These tiny flat-leaved plants
with stiff, grey flowers spread
everywhere for a year or two
and then disappeared. They have
not grown here since. The
horses did not eat them, although
they ate the much taller “but-
ton-bushes.”
The Sugar-gum.
“H.C.”: It is one of the best
eucalypts for general use. Kept
well lopped, it is an ideal shade
tree for stock paddocks or
around the homestead. In a
shelter-belt its thick foliage
stops wind ravage. As well as
being ornamental in avenues or
along streets or highways, it
does much to preserve the Aus-
tralian scene.
A native of South Australia,
there its self-sown copses extend
over many parts of the country
from Spencer Gulf to the
Flinders Ranges ; old trees soar
to 150 ft. and grow to 6ft. in
diameter. As a cultivated tree it
can be limited to 50ft. or 60ft.,
which is ample height for most
farm purposes. Its foliage is a
brighter green than that of many
other eucalypts.
Sugar-gums do well in light
soils of good depth, where they
will grow from sft. to 7ft. a year.
They are kept bushy by heavy
pruning.
The sugar-gum’s value to in-
land N.S.W. is seen around
Broken Hill, Coonamble, Peak
Hill and other western towns. It
is not, however, an unqualified
success in areas where the rain-
fall drops below 18in. to 20in.
unless there is irrigation. In
such climates it may flourish
well for years, then along comes
a drought and it wilts. Again,
when the rainfall’s too low or the
tree suffers setbacks, it attracts
scale insects and other diseases.
In its early years it is susceptible
to frost.
The fodder value is doubtful.
The leaves have a sweet taste
and are eaten by stock, but it is
suspected of poisoning horses,
cattle and sheep. Examination
has revealed the leaves to have
a hydrocyanic acid content.
As a nectar yielder the sugar-
gum’s value is not yet fully
realised, the honey being of ex-
cellent flavor and density. It
flowers from January to
February.
Sunflower Seed.
“He-Ne”; Harold Rutherford,
of Kyabram (Vic.), recently
harvested well over a ton an acre
of sunflower-seed from a 100-
acre crop. As he averaged £35
a ton it is no wonder he de-
scribes sunflower-seed as “a
winner,” with costs at only about
£8 an acre. Harvesting was done
with an engine-functioned
header, using a pea concave and
standard wheat-drum.
The present world shortage of
vegetable oils has created a
market for sunflower-seed, which
contains 25 to 35 per cent, of
oil. Being a summer crop, sun-
flowers require a climate similar
to corn, and wherever corn is
grown sunflowers should do well
Although they do best on rich
loams, sunflowers adapt them-
selves to a wide range of soils
Probably the best N.S.W. districts
would be the inland irrigation
areas and the north-west wheat
district. Seed is spring-sown
when the frost danger is over.
New Weedkiller.
“Mr.”: The new hormone-
type weedicide 2,4,5-T (the T
represents trichloroacetic acid)
is showing promise on black-
berries. In tests by N.S.W
agronomists at Glen
Mudgee and Orange the chemi-
cal had kills of more than 90
per cent, to its credit from single
applications.
An amount of 31b. to 51b. of
2,4,5-T was found sufficient to
treat one acre of blackberries.
This quantity, mixed with 100 to
150 gal. of water, is applied as a
spray in spring or summer, wet-
ting leaves and stems thoroughly.
The chemical is now being tested
on sweet briar, hemp agrimony,
lantana and bracken.
The department says the
weedicide is not yet generally
available to the public, but ex-
pects full supplies to be obtain-
able in the near future.
Overfat Hens.
“K.T.”: They are generally
poor layers, although there are
exceptions. If a hen is fed a
mash containing fat-forming
foods such as maize or barley-
meal, during the moult, she may
become too fat regardless of her
laying qualities.
To bring that type into early
laying, feed a reliable laying
mash and encourage them to
scratch as much as possible for
their grain. Keep them active.
If penned continuously, place
their green-feed high in a basket
so they will have to jump for it.
The sooner the fat is dispersed
the quicker the nest-boxes will
begin to fill.
All birds which aren’t worth
keeping for laying or breeding
should be sent to the market. A
heavy layer never fattens while
in production.
Twist Drills.
“Metax”: A set of twist-drills
with shanks to fit the brace are
worth getting together. They are
handier than auger-bits for
drilling hqles in old timber be-
cause they are not harmed by
meeting nails. Sizes up to lin.
were available in times of less
scarcity, but holes above |in.
diameter are not a frequent re-
quirement.
An alternative is to use a hand-
or breast-drill and then the
commoner round-shank twist-
bits will fit. These drills do not
generally take beyond fin. bits,
but that will cover a fair range


C JWRD
m
gOTECTA
*tSV*
8 “IUbl e f ot 00*^
!!' 8 »l«. Credit,’ »!?' ?' bn,,nt >* <t record.
Wedsini , 0 »ppe ar ,*J”“ l ‘ *l»- Slrongl, toollt.
. and if. S " n<l ,or »«■» detail.
Pty.Ltd.
“ D ““sbane ,
* . W ° • Co. P„, i ta
. Norman Bros, P ty . Ltd.
3 • n v *d«» * Son, Ltd.
I 8 Co. , A „„.,
->
i MO /I rf.IO.lf/ .VII |rf7
A.
JOB TOO TOUCH
FOR THE
CRAWLER
25/33 H.P. 32/40 H.P.
TRACTOR
Hi
m
Before making any decisions about a new tractor...see your nearest
Loyd distributor...ask him to arrange a Loyd demonstration under
your own conditions ...on your own farm. Let us say right here, such
a demonstration places you under no obligation whatsoever.
The Loyd is an all-weather, all-the-year-
round tractor. Mud, sand, clay, under-
growth, roots or saplings make no differ-
ence to its broad tracks. Maximum speed
of 7 m.p.h. . . . ample power to do every
job under the worst conditions... economy
of fuel as low as three quarters of a gallon
of Diesel fuel per hour . • . the Loyd
Crawler is the ideal tractor for the
Australian farmer.
Every class of broadacre farming,
orchard work, breaking new country, cane
farming, logging, dozing, grading, scrap-
ing, loading, back-filling, excavating,
winching or road building, the Loyd
Crawler will do the job
BETTER! FASTER! CHEAPER!
The Loyd will outpull any other tractor of
equivalent horsepower!
See or write to your nearest Loyd Distributor .
NFW SOUTH WALES: Loyd Tractors (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., 82a Parramatta Rd, Camperdown.
NEW SOU ™g ENSLAND: Norton Toothill Pty. Ltd., 12 Charlotte Street Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Loyd Tractors (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Power Handling (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 61 aw er ace ’ eal
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Draytons Ltd., Bassendean, Perth. _
NEW ZEALAND: John Chambers & Son Ltd., Branches throughout New Zealand.
Loyd Sales and Service available throughout Australasia .
COMMONWEALTH FACTORY REPRESENTATIVE: New Zealand Export Co., 104 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
vompnts and the drill is
•* «SSSSt to operate in
6 -
Pheno. and Calves.
“AMM.”: Calves are not
tnlerant of the drug. It is
inadvisable to give a full dose to
Alves in poor condition ; give a
SSr h a £ °f'7do d se a f ”
of blindness, temporary and per-
manent in calves drenched with
XnoWazine. Although cases
L occur, some of which the
writer has seen, the percentage
* very small. In the majority the
trouble clears up in two to three
weeks of its own accord
although an occasional calf will
remain blind. .
Exact reason for this seems
rather obscure, but is connected
in some way with bright sun-
light Calves drenched with
phenothiazine should be kept in
a shady place for about 24 hours
after treatment. Some drench
with the calf’s eyes covered by
sacking and others out of the
sunlight, but it is important that
during those 24 hours
drenching the calves are shel-
tered no matter how they’ve
been drenched.
Rhodes and Kenya.
“Agric”: Experiments by
C.5.1.R.0 officers at Gatton
College (Q.), with Kenya- and
commercial Rhodes - grasses,
have shown that there are no
worth-while differences between
the two. It was found that com-
bining lucerne with Rhodes p<b-
vides a much improved summer
pasture, but that, with the excep-
tion of the odd year when there
was winter rain, the combina-
tion was no better than Rhodes
grass alone.
Weight gains of cattle on the
combination were greater than
on ordinary Rhodes during the
summer, but losses in the winter
were about the same. It was,
however, discovered that pas-
tures sown to the combination
produced a greater quantity of
grass, and this side of the experi-
ment is being pursued.
One lesson learnt from the
trials was that paddocks planted
to Rhodes-grass and lucerne had
to be fed off on the rotational
system, as lucerne would not
stand up to constant grazing.
Two-thirds of the experimental
area at the college has now been
ploughed out. Last year it was
planted with oats and this year
with sorghum, in an effort to
determine if the lucerne has had
any lasting effect on the fertility
of the soil.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.A.A.”: To detusk a pig,
rope him to a post and cut the
tusks with bolt-cutters; another
way is with a wood chisel used
against a block of wood which
is placed in the mouth to form
a resistance on the inside edge
of the tusk.
Taswegian”: A farmer near
elorame, on the Speck’s north-
s coast, has turned a liability
nir? .f? asset . by usin S stones
ak 6 [• t r 0r ? i b * s i an d to construct
a beautiful shelter, in the form
tr L C - irCUl f Wal1 ’ beneath the
spreadmg branches of a large
onen'ino? V * haS tWO or three
attrA? 25 for f asy access > and is
attractive to look at as well as
excellent shelter for stock.
snmm Court ” : Don’t let the
somA Cr S ° b X wit hout getting
alwavs °b P ni f a ' 01 li Goannas may
always be found and shot near
a dead beasi or a hen-roost. Cut
out the fat and render it down
with mild heat. The oil is very
penetrating, and will prevent
rusting of gun-barrels and metal
articles,
“Sarina”: Chjutney manufac-
turing firms have been asking to
buy N.Q. mangoes; up to £lO
per ton being offered for some
varieties in sacks. One Sarina
(C.Q.) farmer has been grinding
mangoes and sending the pulp in
casks. On many farms mangoes
are little valued as a fruit,
although the big trees are con-
sidered very useful for sheltering
buildings from cyclonic blows.
“Wilco”: Messmates, figs and
other hard-to-kill trees can be
killed if the bark is stripped off
their trunks from a height of
3ft. down to ground-level. Not
a scrap of bark must be left on
the tree-butt. Some trees,
especially messmates and native-
apples, will throw new bark
over a few inches of exposed
wood, but they cannot repair a
large “ring.”
“Billjim”: Silver-birch trees
make good orchard shelter be-
cause fruit-trees can be grown
close to them, and they are very
hardy, doing well on poor soils.
If grown 4ft. apart the trees
will be sufficiently open to allow
breezes to drift through.
“8.J.L.”; To fix a hammer-
head on the handle first insert
as large a wooden wedge as pos-
sible. Then force a long, thin
screw through the wedge into
the actual handle. This has the
double effect of tightening the
wedge and clinching it.
“Biro”; Poplar, quince, athel
and willow strike quickly if
planted in a damp place in
autumn or as soon as the leaves
fall. Of native trees the best are
wilga, myall and kurrajong ; the
wilga being io the far inland
what the kurrajong is to the
wheatbelt —shade for stock and
a food stand-by in time of
drought.
“Quorn”; One of the most
attractive flowers for pot or
window-box is Ornithogalum
thyrsoides, which produces
beautiful white blooms. The
golden aureum is another fine
specimen. The flowers last a
remarkable time —they remain
fresh in water for weeks. The
plant is hardy and requires only
normal care. Plant between
February and June. A South
African, it is also known as
chincherinchee.
“E. & 0.E.”: A Brisbane
man, G. T. Cox, who claims that
his grandfather in England
grafted the first tree to produce
Cox’s orange pippin apples, will
try Tasmanian C.O.P. trees in
his Queensland garden, This
delicious apple often suffers
from too early picking; at
its best takes beating, Mel-
bourne markets appreciate
Cox’s, but Sydney preferences
are all for red apples, however
poor their flavor. Bulk of the
C.O.P. crop goes abroad.
“C.S.”: Queensland farmers
—all types from the cattlemen
of the north to the flower-
growers of the south —are re-
quired to fill in and lodge the
forms sent to them by the
Queensland Government Statis-
tician asking particulars of the
people, stock, production and so
forth of the lands under their
control. The information i«
strictly confidential, is required
under Federal and State laws
and is in the interests of land-
men, the State and the Common-
wealth. Anyone failing to re-
turn the complete form will be
invited to do another.


RORY CLUTTERBUCKS
FUNERALS
By CAVIN S. CASEY
OLD RORY CLUTTERBUCK
died peacefully and painlessly, at
an uncertain but very old age, and
his passing created quite a buzz in
the town. The town was one of those
bare but cheerful north-country goldfields
settlements where a mulga is burned in
the presence of kegs to speed on his way
any good fellow who leaves the district,
and in its dry, bright inland climate
people seldom died, except by accident
on the mine.
“He was a great big lump of a chap
when he was young,” old Fossicker
Hodgson told the crowd in the bar of
the pub. “Lumped his swag to every
rush on the ’fields —except the good ones.
Never had no luck. It was him that
discovered the Southern Queen, by rights,
but Patterson’s crowd jumped it on him.”
“He was a fine man for the district,”
the publican announced. “A worker, not
just a talker. Right up till these last few
years he was in everything that went on,
old Rory was.”
“Fill ’em up again, Dick,” said
Smithson, the baker. “You could tell the
sort of man he was by the way he kept
his self-respect. No money, no luck, an’
his health gone, these last few years, but
there wasn’t a man in the place could
hold his head higher than old Rory.”
“It wasn’t always like that,” Fossicker
Hodgson put in, eagerly. “In his good
days Rory lent hundreds, maybe
thousands, that he never saw again. Any
hard-luck yarn would work with Rory,
when he had the dough.”
“That’s right,” said Rawson, from the
bank. “There’d be a lot he never got
back, but he had a hundred mates who
would have stood by him, if he’d ever
needed it. He had his friends.”
“He’d have been too proud to ask,”
asserted the stationmaster. “Gosh, about
ten years ago he went to the coast for a
holiday, and got on the booze and the
horses, and did in all his money. There’s
not a guard or ticket-collector on this
line that’d want anything more than a
friendly grin from old Rory, if that was
all he had to give ’em. But what does he
do? He up and walks every step of the
way, with his bluey on his back. Took
him three weeks to get home, and he
must have been over seventy then.”
“It’ll be the biggest funeral this town
has ever seen,” said the publican, with
satisfaction caused by both sentiment and
appreciation of the large bar takings that
preceded and followed funerals. “Every-
body’ll turn out for old Rory.”
T" HERE was a chorus of agreement,
* and while old Rory slept, relieved of
the weight of his frail old body, on a
hard bench in the little bush hospital, the
congregation of his old mates in the pub
grew.
“Jerry Clarke’s fixing it up with the
parson and the undertaker,” the pro-
prietor explained a score of times. “We’ll
want a few bob from everybody in a
day or two, but in the meantime every-
thing’s being looked after. She’ll be the
biggest funeral we’ve ever seen, with the
whole town there, I reckon,”
After a while the undertaker, halfway
through grim duties over which nobody
cared to ponder, came across to the pub
for a quick one, and stayed on, taking
an eager part in the reminiscences of old
Rory.
“It’s astonishing that a man like him
never married,” one of the younger men
commented. “I’d have thought he was
just the kind to have a missus and about
a dozen kids.”
“Never married!” Fossicker shrilled,
angrily. “Rory had a wife that was just
his own sort, one of the finest women
who ever pioneered the outback gold-
fields, and spent half her life helping
them that couldn’t help themselves. Who
told you he was never married?
“I was out on the Border Claims,
camped not a hundred yards from him,
in ’thirty, when he lost her. Cripes, it
was horrible! His hut caught fire —just
a hessian place nobody could possibly
get trapped in. But she rushed out,
screaming, with her dress burning, not
looking where she was going, just running
and screeching, and she fell down the
shaft and broke her neck. Just like that!
“I seen him a year after, and hardly
recognised him. It nearly killed him.
“It didn’t turn him sour, though. He
straightened himself up, and fastened the
grin back on his dial, and after a while
you’d never have known the difference,
except he drank a lot more,”
pVERYONE became solemn, con-
'—' templating death and tragedy, and
the ill-luck that struck out of nowhere at
decent, blameless people.
“Well,” said the publican determinedly.
“He never drank with a long face, and
he wouldn’t want us to be doing it now.
This one’s on the house, for Rory’s
memory, as long as you can grin when
you’ve swallowed it.”
Closing-time was at eleven, but by then
a sergeant and a constable who made up
two-thirds of the local police-force were
in the bar, too, and nobody gave even a
thought to ending the wake for old
Rory. The lights were dim in their
floating blankets of pipe-smoke, and
voices were thick and sentimental with
beer and benevolent memories. Outlines
of the objects in the room became even
more vague than the smoke made them,
but the taps continued to gush strongly,
and the sudsy froth on the strong, nut-
brown ale was cool and delicious.
“Did y’ever shee a crowd like thish
before a funeral?” the publican
demanded. “She’ll be th’ biggesht
funeral we ever had in th’ dishtrict. Good
old Rory!”
“YTe right. Y’re dead right,” agreed
the undertaker with tears in his eyes.
“It’sh an honor I never thought’d come
t’ me in a shmall town like thish, to be
buryin’ a man like Rory Clutterbuck.”
NEXT morning was lost out of the
lives of all of them, except those
who had to obey the mine whistle, and
stagger blindly and achingly off to toil
that would sweat the liquor out of them.
In the case of Rawson, the banker, his
bank had managed without him for
almost the whole of its business hours
before he opened a bloodshot eye and dis-
contentedly identified an excruciatingly
ugly and persistent sound that had been
drumming in his ears as the voice of his
wife.
“If you can’t get a transfer away from
this place, you can stay here without me,”
Mrs. Rawson yelled, “It’s nothing but
drink, drink, drink, a drunken hole of a
place, and it’s never been any different
since we’ve been here, and never will be,
till we get out of it. With anybody and
everybody, too. I can just see* them
grinning and winking at each other when
you aren’t at the bank —that Smith and
Reilley—the very men that work for you.
How do you think I feel, knowing the
talk that goes around the town, and all
the women sorry for me, and half of
them not hesitating to show it, either?
Don’t you think they know at Head
Office what goes on? Why do you think
they leave you here, year after year,
while the younger men go to better
branches? What sort of a life do you
think it is for me and the children?”
Mrs. Rawson went on and on, but
Rawson did not have to listen, because he
had heard it all before. He caught sight
of the clock, and jerked himself upright,
in sudden alarm. His head seemed to
separate from his neck by a clear two
feet, and then settle back in its place
with a shattering crash.
“I should be on the way to old Rory
Clutterbuck’s funeral,” Rawson said.
“It’s) your own funeral you’ll be going
to before you’re much older, if you don’t
slow down,” his wife told him. Then she
continued to state her case, in a rather
louder voice designed to drown out
irrelevant interruptions.
“I can’t go,” Rawson moaned, pulling
a few thicknesses of blanket around his
ears. “I want to, but I just can’t. Jbe
spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.”
Then he shut his eyes, and pulled the
blankets right over his ears, so that the
voice of his wife was no longer saying
words, but was just creating an endless,
wrathful noise that came to him thickly,
and was hardly more painful than being
poked in the eardrums with red-hot
knitting-needles.
OUTSIDE it was a bad day. Rare and
gusty inland rain was making mud
everywhere, with wind-driven clouds
rolling in endless procession across the
face of the sun.
Old Fossicker Hodgson’s herd of goats
had escaped from his claim, as they often
did, and broken through the fence of
Martinelli’s market-garden. The goats
were useless, ravenous animals, but
Fossicker was fond of them. He would
have been a lonely old hatter but for his
goats, and to him they were agile and
graceful, fine, fleet, independent animals
whom he liked to watch leaping among
the dumps and over the gaping mouths of
the old abandoned shafts.
Martinelli, on the other hand, loved
the cabbages and carrots he grew with
such infinite labor and watering in the
dry inland soil. They were the only
really fresh vegetables the town ever got,
and their grower was proud of them, and
hated the lean, energetic goats that raided
them from time to time. He lost his
temper, produced his shot-gun, and
threatened Fossicker and the goats in-
discriminately while the old man sprinted
about shakily and feverishly, rounding up
his animals and getting them back through
their hole in the fence.
By the time Fossicker was back on his
lease he saw with real despair that it
was too late for Rory’s funeral. He felt
deep regret, for Rory had been his good
mate for longer than he liked to re-
member, He sat sadly on a box outside
his hut, thinking fearfully of old Rory,
and the long past, and the short, un-
certain future, and there was only one
idea from which he could take comfort.
“Well, Rory would understand,” he
told a shaggy and arrogant billy-goat
that had a gleam of unnatural and
villainous intelligence in its eye. “An’ he
won’t be short of plenty to give him a
good send-off, without an old crock like
_ _ 19
me.
THE publican seldom went to funerals,
considering that he more than ade-
quately honored the dead by attending to
the post-burial needs of the mourners. He
had intended to treat this one as a very
special occasion, but when he took his
place in the world, late in the day, the
debris of the night before was an awesome
sight, and he abandoned the idea,
“Come on, old girl,” he urged his wife,
with a briskness that he did not feel. “It’s
old Rory Clutterbuck’s funeral today—
be th’ biggest ever, an’ we’ll have a hell
of a mob to look after, about four
o’clock. I was going myself, but there’s
no time if we’re going to be ready for
them all.”
At the mine a special cage brought up
a team of Rory’s mates, and they piled
into a special bus to go to town. Exactly
halfway the bus slithered off the road in
the slippery mud, crashed across a gutter
three feet deep, and came to rest in the
scrub with two burst tyres. Nobody was
hurt, but it was the end of the funeral
for that party.
“You careless cow!” somebody snorted
at the driver. “You’ve cruelled it now,
all right.”
“Never mind,” the driver told them.
“I’ve got a couple o’ bottles of whisky
here, an’ you can drink old Rory’s
health, anyway.”
Everybody brightened up a great deal.
They were out of the rain, in the bus, and
it would have been very bleak and un-
comfortable at th© cemetery. “Here’s to
him, the dear old swob!” somebody
said. “If he could see what goes on, he
wouldn’t even miss us, in the mob ‘that’ll
be there.”
WHEN it was time for the funeral to
have ended, the publican was sur-
prised that there was no sudden influx of
customers. The people he had expected
arrived, but they came in ones and twos,
looking sheepish.
“Well, what was the funeral like?” a.
C oot" old FoSsicker > -he pulw
nis pot, I was going mvself a
wastoo much to deanVtee.
“I didn’t git to it meself,” Fossicker
confessed, shamefully. “It was me goat,
They got into the vegetables agafn r
dunno why I keep them blasted goats.’’
The publican asked all-comers the samp
question, and got such similar answers
IhaVh 1 h a V he i, beCame a armed - When Smithson
the baker, came in, he felt that at last he
would learn what had happened. fte
“Well, how did it go, Smithson?” he
said jovially “Don’t tell me you weren’t
there—you haven’t missed a funeral since
I ve known you.” e
Smithson wiped his brow wearilv
Missed this one,” he announced. “Been
baking all day. That damned man of
mine who should have been baking last
night mixed the dough, and then went on
the booze. Drunk all night! Drunk at
the other pub!” The baker ended on a
high note of righteous indignation that
any man other than himself should have
spent the previous night drinking.
“My God!” said the publican, pale
with the shock of the idea. “I’m beginning
to think nobody went to the bloody
funeral.” 3
'“THERE was a stunned and guilty
silence, and then the undertaker
walked in. The undertaker’s face
wore a look of bitter reproach
and gloomy sorrow, expressions for
which its natural mould and lines
made it well-suited. He also seemed
to have a savage hangover, and he
tremblingly gulped a long drink before he
spoke. He then surveyed the room full
of his friends with the utmost scorn and
dislike.
“Well, you’re a great lot of mates!”
the undertaker said. “I can only say I
hope I’ve got better friends when my
time comes.”
“There was nobody at old Rory’s
funeral,” the landlord said softly, in tones
of dull finality.
The undertaker whacked his empty
glass on the counter with vicious distaste.
“Not a soul,” he snarled. “Nobody but
me and the parson. Nobody to be pall-
bearers, even. I had to lever the coffin
out of the back of the hearse so it fell in
the grave like a load of spuds or some-
thing. ‘The biggest funeral we’ve ever
seen,’ it was going to be, remember? And
when it comes to the point, there’s
exactly three of us there, including poor
old Rory.”
WITH the mention of Rory Clutter-
buck’s- name a frightening change
came over the undertaker. He went pale,
and his eyes bulged, and he clutched the
counter for support. His lips twisted and
writhed, but no words came.
“Give him brandy, quick,” the baker
ordered the publican.
The undertaker swallowed the brandy
and sat 'down, clutching his forehead.
“Goodness me!” he said weakly. “Rory
wasn’t there either. He’s still over in the
hospital. I had a few myself last night,
and I forgot to put him in. We had the
service over an empty coffin!”
It took a moment for wits to be
collected, and then there was an outburst
of indignant words. Old Fossicker danced
across, waving his knobbly fists and
offering to punch the undertaker on the
nose. He could have done it, in spite or
his age and feebleness, for the under-
taker’s spirit was crushed. “Just gimme
another brandy,” he mumbled. “I nev^ r
did anything like this in my life before.
“It’s just as well you did it this time,
said the publican, whose mind had worked
a little faster than the rest. “Come on,
boys, drink ’em'down. Everything’s alt
right now,” ,
“All right!” old Fossicker hollowed
furiously. “What d’ you mean, a
right, with me old mate’s funeral a
mucked up be this beer-sodden fool ot
bloke what calls hisself a undertaker.
“We’ll have to have another funeral,
tomorrow. Don’t you see that? An ;
by cripes, this time we’ll all be ther ,
the publican said feelingly.
SUDDENLY everybody was happy
and relieved. ' he
“Dammit!” said the banker. 1 11 °
there this time, if I have to stay up
night drinking.” »
“It’s a wonderful thing to happ >
the publican assured him, with a S n
over his face. “Old Rory’il have
records —only man ever to have
funerals in this town, record to
smallest funeral, without even h
present, and, by gosh! the record
biggest funeral the second tun •
time there was another one on tne ,jj
Come on, pass ’em over, gents, a
have a drink to old Rory’s fune


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
wy.vuuonrTO'
iililii
5 '-v',.
If the road had springs .you couldn’t get a
smoother, softer ride than you get on Super-
Cushions. '
Super-Cushipns, exclusive to Goodyear, are the
new kind of tyres that give a new kind of ride . . .
bigger softer tyres that soak up jolts, resist bruises
and cuts* Super-Cushions will fit your present
wheels, so, see yoiir Goodyear Dealer now.
everything a tyre can do
Hots BETTER!
Here s how Super-Cushions out-
perform conventional tyres:
Softer, Smoother. Safer Ride . . .
Quicker Stops . . . Greater Traction
osier Steering ... Less Driving Fatigue
Better Looking . . , Fewer Rattles and
„ Repairs ... More Car Economy -
this and GREATER
MILEAGE, TOO!
more people,
the world over,
BIDE ON GOODYEAR TYRES
THAN ON ANY OTHER MAKE,
»'**v
N'T*
> ♦
r,'.
y*
good/year
TIP pE n
No. 8 of
a Series
"KEEP your money in Aus-
tralia!" Sound advice in 1904
when Ronaldson-Tippett mar-
keted their first Australian-
built engines and had to com.
bat preference for imported
machinery. , Sounder advice
to-day, when backed by
nearly fifty years of engine
building experience.
Ronaldson - Tippett are
producing diesel en-
gines recognized as
world-leaders. Built to
precision standards,
proved on land and
sea in the last war,
these engines are
now popular lor any
duties demanding re-
liability, economy and
long life.
f
m
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: Ballarat, Victoria. Showrooms: 62S Bourke St., Mel-
bourne. V.S.WL Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd., 42
Bridge St., Sydney. Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.)
Pty., Ltd., Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
RONfIIDSON TIPPETT
ENGINES
L
iiiislaisi
&
m
mm
*2
am. 4
** 9
im
1
'.s!%)' ZsT'v
%*' /
m
SIMS
frvsa^
I y?§
m
*
*
■
CLOTH
Rwl i»P
>/?
$
$
Cd»
-
il
■
*
i
■
■
■*=■.i«ii
-jt
*
guaranteed: NEVER TO fade or shrink
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
by Hervey t Mitchell.— 4804
WW by Marga w ife, no chil-
JggSjT** house, Sydney.
-—4803. h w ;th readers in-
"4802' of The Forest Giant
To buy copy of it trans iated
hv Adrien Le Coroeau, 1
from the French by J. H. Ross.
4801.
Information Sought.
S k nufoy Assemble 8oz. dry
in&\^oSSJS^dJffl
r tt ?Smix until .tout to have
been worked in, when it will be very
drv Add the remainder of the glue
■ind plaster, and work well. If too
dry, add a little water or a little more
glue and work the whole well by
saueezing; if lumpy, place on a
board and pound with a hammer.
When finished, keep it moist by
wrapping in a wet cloth and placing
under an inverted bowl. If it has to
be kept for a week, using it daily,
add a few drops of glycerine to retard
drying. If exposed to the air, will
dry as hard as wood in 18 hours.
* * * *
How to remove stains from marble?
Wash well with warm soapy water
and a soft brush and rinse off cleanly
so that no soap remains. A weak
solution of oxalic acid may then be
washed over the surface with a cloth
or sponge, but must be removed
quickly and well rinsed. Polishing
can be done by applying this mix-
ture : 2 parts sodium bicarbonate,
1 part finely-ground pumice stone
and 1 part finely-ground chalk, well
mixed and screened to remove
scratchy particles and with sufficient
water added to make a pasty mass.
Rub vigorously and clean off with
plenty of water. A stonemason would
probably do the job quickly by
power and give anew surface to the
marble difficult work for the
amateur.
* * * *
How to tell if a shotgun is in good
condition ?
Assemble completely; grasp butt in
left hand, pistol-grip in right, shake
from side to side. This will reveal
any looseness in joint. Remove fore-
end and repeat, if no shake or loose-
ness is felt, joint is probably in good
order. Examine semicircular cut in
lump for signs of hammer marks or
thin shim of tin or other packing. If
neither is visible, gun has had little
wear. The stock should be looked
over for splits, cracks or indications
of repair. If gun is hammerless,
press a penny firmly against each
firing-pin hole in turn and snap
locks; marks on coin will indicate
depth and strength of firing-pin blow.
Examine the interior of barrel for
pitting and dents. The latter may
be detected visibly as shadows, or
felt with fingers on exterior of barrels.
Remove barrels from stock and
suspend by a loop of thin string
about the front-sight. Tap breech end
of barrels and lump with handle of
a table knife; if barrels ring with a
clear metallic note the lump and ribs
should be right.
* # * *
How to prepare sea-sponges for
market ?
Place in changes of either fresh- or
sea-water to macerate. During this
process, squeeze and pound by hand
to release the jelly-like animal matter.
Any foreign shelly bodies are dealt
with by blows from a wooden mallet
and afterwards rinsed out of the
fibres. After a final wash in fresh
water, bleach in the sun. Some final
bleaching and softening processes are
trade secrets.
* * * *
How to prevent and treat chil-
blains ?
Development may often be pre-
vented by wearing thick socks, solid
shoes and warm gloves and by
vigorously exercising. Chilblains
should be immersed once or twice a
day in warm wafbr, with subsequent
gentle friction of parts affected.
Painting with flexible collodion often
relieves.
* * * *
How to pluck a duck?
Tie a piece of string to bird’s legs
and lower into boiling water for a
few minutes. Feathers may then be
easily removed. Another way is to
immerse in cold water for a few
moments, place in a tub and pour a
kettle of boiling water over it. Re-
move after half a minute and pluck.
* * * *
Qualifications for award of the
1914 (Mans) Star?
All officers and men of the British
and Indian Expeditionary Forces, in-
cluding civilian medical practitioners,
nursing sisters, nurses and others em-
ployed with military hospitals, who
actually served in France or Belgium
on the establishment of a unit
between August 5, 1914, and mid-
night on November 22-23, 1914, are
eligible. Officers and men of the
R.N., R.N.R., R.N.V.R. and Royal
Marines who served on the establish-
ment of a unit between these dates
are also eligible, but not those who
served afloat. The King later
approved the issue of a bar to those
already awarded the star who actually
served under the fire of the enemy in
France or Belgium between the dates
mentioned.
* * * *
How should a kelpie pup four
months old be fed? Should he be
washed? What are the symptoms of
worms and distemper?
First meal (11 a.m.) may consist
of table scraps such as cooked meat
with a little raw carrot made up with
wholemeal crusts. Second meal
(4 p.m.) could be a little milk with
yolk of egg added, poured on broken
dog biscuit. The evening meal (8 p.m.)
should consist principally of raw
beef. The less a dog is washed the
better. A good grooming daily is more
beneficial to skin and coat. It is a
safe bet that a dog of that age has
worms, and he should be treated with
a safe remedy. Distemper symptoms
are lassitude, rise in temperature and
sometimes mucus from eyes and nose.
* * * *
Details of the wreck of S.S.
Quetta? Who owned her?
On her way from Brisbane to
London she struck a submerged rock
in Adolphus Channel (near Torres
Strait) on Feb. 28, 1890. The ship’s
bottom was ripped out and she sank
in a few minutes. One hundred and
thirty-four lives were lost; there were
150 survivors, including two women.
The boat was, a British India steamer.
Brief Answers.
T.O’G.: The question of the hour
of closing of hotels in N. S. Wales
was referred to the electors by
referendum on February 15, 1947,
and the voting favored the continued
closing of licensed premises at
6 p.m E.W.W.: The Castlereagh
River (N.S.W.) was discovered by
John Oxley on July 27, 1818
P.M.: Essays: English and Austra-
lian selected by George H. Cowling,
and published by Oxford University
Press M.J.W.; The history of the
9th Battalion, First A.1.F., was titled
“From Anzac to the Hindenburg
line.” It was written by Norman
K. Harvey S.F.: The lines are
from Randolph Bedford’s “The Bell-
bird Rung Her Home,” which will
be found in The Bulletin Reciter
N.H.: All are South Aust. aboriginal
place-names, Muloowartie means
“native rat-hole”; Ellimatta, “our
camp”; and Boganya, “bandicoot.”
K.V.: Richard Denis Meagher,
M. was Speaker of the N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly from Dec. 23, 1913, to
April 16, 1917 H.L.A.: Tussore
is a sufficient name for the material
without the addition of silk..
P.R.McC.: Digger Smith by C. J.
Dennis was first published by Angus
and Robertson, Sydney, m 1918.-..
H.L.S.: Write New Process Fibre
Pty, Ltd., Sirius House, 23 Mac-
quarie-place, Sydney... .WJ.O’B.:
G V. Brooke was an English actor.
He died on January 10, 1866....
N. : From Gregory’s Guides and
Maps, 57 Regent-street, Sydney
J.F.: Funk and Wagnall s dictionary
classifies the word as United States
and provincial English and its mean-
ing as “A small job; commonly in
the plural, routine duties of a house,
etc.” .. • C.H.S.: Write Tyrrell s
Bookshop, 281 George-street, Sydney,
stating name of publisher and date
of publication V.P.H.: Teams
representing Ireland in international
Rugby Union matches are composed
of players from all over Ireland
North and South... .G.H.8.: The
nurseries no longer exist. Send
apples for identification to the Vic.
Agricultural Dept., Melbourne....
CD.D.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural
Dept., Sydney, for pamphlet Feed-
ing Poultry”... .P.F.; (1) Get in
touch with Division of Plant Industry,
NSW. Agricultural Dept., Sydney.
(2) 'You will find The Farmers
Handbook, obtainable from the Agri-
cultural Dept., price 16s, posted, very
useful.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS, No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS, will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be
addressed to the Editor,
E.E.8.; Don’t care for stories
that look like having been chestnuts.
R.A.F.: The eel story just
wriggled off our h00k... .M.F.:
Ching Chong Chinaman, chop, chop,
chop.... W.R.: “What Did You Do
With Mullins?” We sent him home.
B.L.J.: The old pink face is still
set firmly against ' stories that hap-
pened in a daydream V.O’C.:
Short and Well, short... .J.T.:
Afraid “High Achievement” doesn’t
go for the writing... .C.R.L.: Such
goings-0n!... .E.R.: We took away
marks for not finding out what made
the ghostly noise and added marks
because you didn’t fake a reason; then
we sent the story back R.A.F.:
Bit complicated... J.K.R.: You do
get sad up in New Guinea F.J.R.:
Sorry L.H.K.: Bit on the Bib ’n’
Bub side, isn’t it? N.D.D.: Your
“Night Out” didn’t do us any good.
....Bellerive: R.I.P.:—
....L.A.: Not fond of black bream.
L.G.C.: Pretty pedestrian for a
horseman.,. .G.F.S.: Incredible....
A.D.: Such violence! G. 8.: Not
even “Though Winter Came”
N.L.: “The Smell of Blood” wasn’t
our meat P.H.: Yes, but we’ve
listened to so many people describing
football matches T.K.: You never
need to read much of a story about
a character called “Wickletweed”....
Z.V.W.: Sad without relief L.H.:
“Accused,” acquitted, has left for
home A.H.: The confidence-man
story, possibly because of “Labor”
Governments, has to be pretty good
these days to avoid the charge of
tameness.
THE OLD PUGILIST.
Glove-scarred and old.
The past victor of fights
Was a memory only
Of bygone nights;
Known to ring fans
For his daring and skill
Against an opponent
In a stirring mill.
Health broken and bent
He sauntered about;
Then one day came
The fatal knockout.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
Migration
I was sorry to see that the A.W.U. has
decided to oppose the Menzies Govern-
ment’s new plan for bringing out British
migrants on somewhat the same basis as
Calwell brought out D.Ps. Some such
plan must be established if there is to be
a continued flow of British migrants to
this country.
Nominations are drying up because
most of the people who have done so do
not intend to nominate again. Not that
that is any reflection on nominators or
nominees. But two families in a house
is far from being an ideal arrangement,
and when, as has often happened, these
two families are complete strangers,
although distantly related, they can
quickly come to hate the sight of each
other.
In Britain today there are thousands
of people who are only waiting for a
chance to become good Australian
citizens. They are thwarted because they
cannot get nominators. Yet I’ll guarantee
that most of them would be willing to go
into an Army camp for a couple of years,
and accept job direction for the same
period if necessary.
And there is one very good point about
this scheme for directing Britishers to
work—they will probably go to places
which they would never reach otherwise,
get used to working and living there and
probably stay there when their term of
direction is up. Particularly if they are
single men. As it is, people arriveln Aus-
tralia, meet their sponsors, who probably
live in some town anyway, and before
they know where they are they’re
pegging away at a similar job to that/
which they had in the Old Dart,
The first thing for a married migrant
to do when he arrives is to get a job to
keep his wife and family. And he often
has to take the line of least resistance
and go for clerking or some other similar
position, because his nomination papers
say “clerk.” Never mind if he has some
vague notion of going on the land —he is
unskilled in that and can’t expect to get
a livings wage while he is learning. But
direct him to work on the land or in some
essential industry, guarantee him enough
money to keep his family while he is at
that work, and I think you’ll have a large
number of migrants revealing unsuspected
talents for something they’re never done
before.
As for “cheap labor for squatters”—
isn’t the A.W.U. sure of its strength?
Couldn’t it ensure that award wages
would be paid? After all, the award
wage is a minimum; there’s no reason
why a really skilled man should not be
paid more. And, although they’re
accused of being “boss’s men,” I can
assure the A.W.U. that the tradition of
British trade-unionism is strong enough
to make the Britisher less of a menace to
living and wage standards than those
migrants from countries with far lower
standards of living than Britain. —R. H.
(Q).
Fruit-fly
Agree with what “Cave” says (B.
l/3/’5O), except about burying infested
fruit. That’s the worst thing you can do,
since it gives the maggots a flying start
secure from any enemies. They’ll dig
their way up from 6ft. down. So don’t
bury struck fruit. Boil it.
Westralian orchardists are at last begin-
ning to tackle the business in a common-
sense manner, and, with a non-Labor
party in power, they secured Government
assistance.
Two years ago a local fruitgrowers’
association, at a plebiscite, unanimously
voted for compulsory spraying of trees,
the job to be paid for in advance, and
carried out by a team directed by the
association. The scheme worked, despite
the difficulty of obtaining labor, and,
having demonstrated its value locally, the
association urges its State-wide applica-
tion. The Government having weighed
in with a £lO,OOO grant, it looks as if
something will be done at last.
Even so, it’s more than a State prob-
lem., It should be tackled by all the States
acting together with Commonwealth
assistance. One State might era’dicate the
pest, but while it exists anywhere in the
Commonwealth its control will be costly
to all. South Australia has succeeded, by
a rigidly-policed regulation forbidding
the import of fruit from fly-infested areas,
in keeping its State free. Yet S.A. had
a bad scare a few years ago, and the all-
out drive to localise and defeat the in-
festation cost a few thousands in a few
weeks.
No, it’s a national job. In W.A. we’ve
learnt a lot about it —the hard way. We’re
willing to co-operate with money and
experience. But it wants tackling now. —
Kelmscott (W.A.). ’
Sugar-farming
At fivepence a pound Australian con-
sumers are getting almost the cheapest
sugar in the world. How the canegrower
earns and receives his share of that five-
pence might be a revelation to many,
especially those agriculturists engaged in
other crops that take but a few months
from seed to harvest.
In the early summer of 1947 I first
broke up land for planting after the wet
the following year, and sowed peas for
green manure. Fuel and oil for the
tractor were purchased on strictly monthly
terms from the oil company. The pea-
“Awful lot of red-tape, isn't it!"
seed had been bought a month earlier.
“Cash with order,” said the pea-grower.
In April, 1948,1 began ploughing again,
more fuel (monthly terms), fertiliser (also
to be paid for within 30 days), and wages
for farm hands (to be paid on the dot
once a fortnight). Periodic cultivating,
using more fuel, during the rest of the
year, and another dressing of fertiliser
to be paid for in December.
In June, 1949, 21 months after my
original expenditure—the pea-seed—l
began harvesting. With luck I hope to
receive, eventually, about 555. per ton
for the cane. The mill makes a monthly
delivery payment of 325. 6d. per ton.
Harvesting costs take 14s. from that.
The Sugar Board advances the mill
so much per ton of sugar held in stock
and further payments as it is shipped. I
need not dwell on the heartbreaking way
in which our sugar is handled on the
wharves.
At writing, I have received 395. per
tan for the 1949 crop. I hope to get the
balance of 16s. by the end of May, two
years and eight months after my initial
expenditure. Yet I am expected to pay
all expenses within 30 days, not months.
A further series of expenditure for the
1950 crop began 18 months ago, and yet
another six months ago for 1951.
A well-established farmer can stand it,
though two drought years such as 1946-47
will temporarily cripple him. For the
great majority there is only one answer;
the trading banks. —B. J. L, (Q.).
Food Producers First
In this Orange (N.S.W.) area there is
to be erected a hostel costing £72,000
for “New Australians,” and in almost
every quarter of the compass there have
been huge amounts spent on “holding
centres” for the same purpose, while
primary producers can’t get materials
for anything.
The position is that tens of thousands
of new arrivals are coming into Australia
to enter secondaiy industry, while primary
producers are in desperate plight for
labor, involving an over-all loss of prob-
ably millions of pounds. Throughout
the land there are hundreds of primary
producers who would absorb thousands
of workers if accommodation could be
found, and work would be permanent.
Surely it would be a wise plan to give
encouragement and priority to food pro-
ducers to build homes for workers in
food production, to enable Australia to
become a granary for the world, feeding
the hordes of starving peoples in other
lands. Granted that Australia must be
peopled by many millions more, it is
flagrant political dishonesty and a sowing
of serious trouble to settle hordes of
new arrivals in the towns and cities to
compete in artificial pursuits.—L. S.
(N.S.W.).
Merino Embargo
Reports that the Department of
Commerce and Agriculture is encourag-
ing export of Corriedales to Japan raises
the question of how long the 21-year-old
ban on the export of Merinos is to
remain. If Corriedales can go to assist
the Jap sheep industry surely Merinos
could be sent either to South Africa or
America.
The original idea of the Merino ban
„was to retain Merinos in Australia so
that small and medium-sized flockowners
could have the pick of the studs at cheap
rates.
Since the ban went on in 1929 the
quality of Merinos has certainly not im-
proved, as studmasters have been robbed
of a powerful incentive to breed the
highest quality sheep.
If the world market was open to
Merinos studmasters would have an in-
centive to breed numbers of £3OOO-to-
£4ooo rams. In the breeding of these a
higher general standard of lesser-priced
rams could reasonably be expected. In
the breeding of one 4000-guineas ram,
many 1000-guineas and 500-guineas
animals are forthcoming.
A most profitable market now exists
for Merinos in South America, and if we
really want dollars there is where we can
make them, just South Africa is, by
shipping them what they want —good
Merinos— He-Ne (N.S.W.).
Save the Parks
For the umpteenth time in this genera-
tion there has been some funny business
in Sydney reducing a public park. Under
the control of a municipal council and
already carrying a sports oval and an
18-hole golf-course; both of which pre-
vent the public from free use of the park,
it is to have another couple of acres
chopped off for a club hall.
Whether council or N.S.W. Lands De-
partment is to blame, what it means is
that once more some sectional interest
has got control of a piece of public land
and it is no longer public.
This is only too typical. At some
time pretty well every community in Aus-
tralia has either had to fight to hold its
parklands or has lost them through some
shenanigan by authority. It will continue
as long as councils and politicians have
the control of parklands, because both
change their personnel so rapidly, and
that personnel varies so much in quality
and interests.
In Sydney, however, exist two forms
of control which have proved highly
successful. The lovely harborside areas of
Nielsen Park and Vaucluse Park are ad-
ministered by two separate trusts, though
the same trustees form both. They
number seven responsible men who act
in a purely honorary capacity, and so
long as the trusts exist no council nr
body else has a hope of aUW
square foot of them for secSi 8 a
private use. The value of th£ W.
control is strikingly illustrated by th e \°!
that a neighborhood park admin;* fact
by the local municipal council had?
best portion chopped off and handed over
to a bowling-club. oVer
The other form of control k tK
Department of Agriculture’s rule of T
magnificent Centennial Park, the Domain
and the Botanical Gardens. This denari
ment isn’t concerned with muni?fn a i
desires or party-political moves, and it ha
successfully resisted all attempts on th!
areas it controls. And it is very Jni
ficant that, like the two areas under th*
honorary trusts, the areas under the De
partment of Agriculture are a joy to thn
eye. That cannot be said for many so
called parks under municipal control
The history of park administration i n
Sydney, with the constant need to protect
the parks against: those who would re
duce them, suggests that the State Gov-
ernment —if not the present one, then the
next—should look into both the trustee
system and the existing legislation con-
cerning parks and institute some way of
preserving the lands from these threats
Until that is done the public will be re-
peatedly faced with things like the
blatant and scandalous attempts to
ruin Rushcutter Park in order to save a
boxing stadium.—C. S. (N.S.W.).
Chance for Riverina
A border war between the Victorian and
N.S.W. Government Railways isn’t doing
much good to development along the
Murray.
Both these railway systems give certain
freight concessions on land products and
manufactures in country districts, but
only where produced within the State.
Thus the Victorian railways, where they
extend across the Murray to places like
Balranald, Lette, Stony Crossing, Deni-
liquin and so forth, won’t grant freight
concessions to goods therefrom, and
N.S.W. railways, in their turn, won’t grant
concessions to freight going from N.S.W.
Riverina into Victoria. Hence industries
are being lost and progress blocked.
The solution for Riverina, of course, is
self-government. A new-State movement
has lately been revived, and with the
Victorian Premier favorable and the
Country party sharing the Government ia
Canberra and likely to share it in N.S.W
before the year is out, the time was never
more favorable for such a move—O.T.
(Vic.).
Exports
Britain’s bulk purchase of American
and Canadian wheat under the Marshall
Plan could mean trouble for Australian
wheatgrowers by this time next year.
Already there is evidence that the
accent has passed from seller to buyer
in the world’s wheat market, and u“ e
Australian Wheat Board recently had to
drop its export price for flour to com-
pete with Canada in a Pacific marw •
Moreover, because of currency dim
ties that affected the International Wheat
Agreement price, Britain has refuse .
take any more Australian wheat
August, and her deal with America
Canada was apparently made to nu
the gap thus left in her imports.
It is possible that if a major car Y
of 1949-50 wheat results and J a J wi ji
have another good season the boa
have an embarrassing quantity of ■
to sell abroad in 1951. And, of JJJjJ
there is always the danger that
and the Argentine, both freelanc w
exporters outside the Internationa
ment, may step in and slash P ric _
time for trade or political reas ]y thing
Wheat, of course, is not the ony
that is feeling the pinch; Aus sa j eS .
porters have already f° u J , so me
resistant markets for jams stor m
tinned foods,- while in Amenc .
surrounds the farm-support P paid
under which the U.S. Govern^
farmers inflated prices for t• sta tc-
production and built up ext . g j s of
owned food piles (190 ihillio e ggs,
wheat, 78 million pounds ot etc>)
204 million pounds of dried j esS
which are now worth very
than they cost. . inn of to °.
It is not so much a
much food —there are stl U , diets
people living on su h' s f ta d fhe ability
throughout the world—but The
of importing countries t0 *. p er produC'
ominously familiar term for the fi r f
tion” is being used °y ers ®f n 7 sta tem ellts
time since 1939, and re J pt oun t B^ c
by such authorities as Vis ? dica tive ot
and Norris E. Dodds are \
the concern felt for the us trali a
It would be worth the a 0 f
farmer’s while to study w jU
events abroad— their off teVentuaUY-
their way to his paddock ev
Dick Turpin (N.S.W-)-


Lost "Horizon. "
Reviewed Briefly .
Wand ammunition people, who’ve filled
those ships’ magazines with 4.7-mch. shells
which strangely enough, fit. Fh
° £ Sy"L r 5 e e-to ma S
four 3-pounders (sal. sting guns)
would call for comment from the
greenest Sea Scout. Actually, she is well-
provided-for with nests of multiple
Bofors. ,
It is unequivocally stated that the
captain “has very little to do with the
actual organisation of the ship to which
the 100 or so typewritten pages of
Captain’s Standing Orders on the subject
shout indignant denial.
But then this armament and internal-
organisation information might be by
arrangement with MIS, for Russian con-
sumption. If it is not, the book, which
was first printed in 1903 and revised
seven times since,, calls not so much for
revision as a dockyard refit.
MACNELL.
H, A. Lindsay (R.P. 15/2/’5O), in
recording the demise of the “Strand”
magazine, concludes that the high death-
rate among British magazines popular 40
years ago is due to the delusions of their
editors—“that the people whose work
they favored would live for ever, would
never lose their originality or their skill
and that the r§ading public would never
tire of the same old literary dishes.” His
conclusions are probably valid for the
“Strand” type of magazine, that of the
middle-brow, but in the case of the high-
brow type, amongst which the death-
rate is even higher, other factors come
into play. The recent passing of
“Horizon” is a case in point that hap-
pened to be singularly well documented.
Its editor, Cyril Connolly, took a mor-
dant delight in recording its death-throes
in the last two issues (November and
December, 1949). “Horizon” was
founded in the summer of 1939 with
Peter Watson as proprietor and art editor,
Cyril Connolly and Stephen Spender as
editors. The early issues were, accord-
ing to Connolly, tentative and eclectic, apt
to combine the “better” Georgians with
the “official school of the ’thirties,” i.e.,
Auden, Spender, etc. During the war
the magazine’s function was conceived
by its editors as “conserving the essential
features of Western humanism” and in-
troducing new, young writers who re-
ported on the war. Alun Lewis, William
Saasom , Tom Harrisson, Maclaren Ross
and Arturo Barea were among the prose
writers, with poets like W. R. Rogers
and Laurie Lee, Towards the end of the
war the literature of the French resist-
ance appeared in its pages ; immediately
iter the war it became anarcho-perfec-
homst, Utopian.
™2 r ° U fl hOUt the war years, though in
I influential circles in England it was
bS ? ewed With suspicion (at Cam-
’ i° r exam Pie, it never sold more
auhl ™° Z f n COpies a month), it proved
the fn pu ar amon § the high-brows of
Scr ;u o rces ’ and even gained many sub-
gs m America and in the
amonfr' 0 rr ? Eer the war i ts popularity
Ced 8 4 lsc u har Bed8 ed En § lish personnel
claim S e T Came fashionable to ex-
dUrino i at Ho J I2 °u’ was much better
“The war War f. Connolly denies ;
of imp, num hers contained a great deal
have bee? _ reporti ng which would not
very litt| e ted u now ’ but there was
ry Me to do in the blackout but read,
and people enjoyed it. It is the appetite
which has gone off, not ‘Horizon.’ ”
At the same time Connolly admits that
“with a higher standard of editing has
gone a falling-off of material,” due to
the attraction of several outstanding
contributors to the American market and
to the transfer of others to less uncertain
modes of livelihood.
The fall in English sales was offset by
a continual increase in American ones,
which was reflected in a marked increase
in American contributions in prose,
though poet contributors of good standard
appeared to be as rare in the States as in
England. In an effort to boost British
sales a traveller was sent round the “big
towns of the north, but was only able to
sell one subscription in a year.”
By the beginning of 1949, Connolly
admits, the job had got him down. He
was alone as editor. Spender having re-
tired as early as 1941, and he had come
to begrudge the time taken from his own
creative writing. The cost of printing
was still steadily mounting, it was held
to be inadvisable to risk further falls in
sales by an increase in price, and as a
last blow Connolly was asked to vacate
his editorial premises in Bedford Square
by the end of the year. He decided to
close up shop.
In announcing his decision in the
November number he said nothing about
refunding unexpended subscriptions, but
his swan-song was good value and may
be held to cut out several months’ subs.
As an example of literary exhibitionism it
is worthy of being printed as an appendix
to The Unquiet Grave; indeed, that title
has an aptness to the occasion. It ap-
pears Mr. Connolly has a special fond-
ness for the theme, since he sets, out to
convince us, and possibly himself, that
“Horizon” isn’t dead after all, “ ‘Hori-
zon’ will close down for a year and re-
open if conditions improve,” he tells us.
But in his view conditions cannot im-
prove this side of a “Dark Age.” This
has been “Horizon’s” theme since the
war: “Nothing dreadful is ever done
with, no bad thing gets any better; you
can’t be too serious.”
There is much more than this to be
said, however. For one thing it must be
admitted that no editor, not even T. S.
Eliot when closing the “Criterion” in
1939, has ever exploited the journalistic
possibilities of a magazine’s collapse as
thoroughly as Connolly has his own. The
Little Magazine thrives on crises, storms
in a teacup to the philistines. The
“Criterion,” the “New Adelphi,” “Hori-
zon,” “Angry Penguins,” to name no
more, they are all the same; when the
crisis isn’t financial or personal it’s cul-
tural ; a new poet is discovered, or isn’t;
a new plot of the bourgeoisie or the
bureaucrats is unmasked; civilisation is
on its last legs, so something. Of all
“Horizon’s” crises nothing so became it
as its death: one is almost persuaded that
the death of Europe is involved.
Then there is the interest of the post-
mortem. Connolly, it will be noticed,
agrees with H. A. Lindsay on one thing,
that the attraction of the dollar draws
the best writers from the English field ;
but the example of “Horizon” proves that
something more than freedom from the
editorial delusions listed by Mr. Lindsay
are necessary if a magazine is to live
through the present. Whatever his faults
Connolly certainly never labored under
the delusions that “his writers would live
for ever” or that “the public would never
tire of the same old literary dishes.” Part
of his failure with the English public
seems to have been his habit of changing
the fare he offered too quickly. He out-
ran his public’s desire for novelty.
A backward glance at . “Horizon’s”
contents shows that the standard
considerably, but at its best few English
literary magazines of its type deserved
better of its readers. I take, entirely at
random, the contents of , the July number,
1947. It contained, among other things:
an article by Kenneth Clark, “On the
Development of Miss Sitwell’s Later
Style”; “Father and Son,” a chapter in
advance from Osbert Sitwell’s “Great
Morning”; “The Neurotic,” a poem by
C. Day Lewis (“Call him what we will,
words cannot ennoble This Atlas who
fell down under a bubble”); Stephen
Spender’s fine lyric “O Night, O Trem-
bling Night,” one of his best poems for 20
years; and Edith Sitwell’s “A Simple-
ton,” opening:
In the autumn the season of ripeness when
final redness
Comes to the ore and the earth is with
child to the sun,
Like the bright gold spangles fall’n from
the light of Nature
Flying over the happy fields, the Simpleton
Feeling the warm gold ripen, sat by the
wayside
—His broad face having an animal nature
(the beast of burden
Who has turned prophet—the beast in our
earth unconscious) —
A simple creature, happy as butterflies,
Or as a dancing star that has risen from
chaos.,..
Many another number was as rich.
There’s no doubt the 3000 subscribers
who were faithful to the end will miss
this magazine by something more than
the occasional amusement its piquant
self-conceit afforded.
DONOYAN CLARKE.
The Squeeze at Bridge: H. G. Freehill
(Faber), Highly technical, but of vital
importance to anybody who wants to
squeeze at bridge. The author is a pre-
wan Irish international.
* * * *
Old Cailie: Arnt Hvidsten (Hodge).
You never know what people will write
books about. This one is about the life
of a hen capercailzie in the forests of
Norway; and a very pleasant one too,
simpler in style than Henry Williamson’s
nature-books, but just as keen in
emotional sympathy and meticulous in
observation.
* * * #
Jacobs Ladder: Nicolette Gray
(Faber). Described as “a Bible picture-
book from Anglo-Saxon and 12th-century
English MSS.,” this is a curiosity of pub-
lishing. It is intended to teach Christianity
to children by means of illustration and
letterpress, but the quaint and childish
drawings would seem of more interest to
connoisseurs of primitive art.
2§5 3fc S|»
Animal Inn: Virginia Moe (Harrap).
Nature-book primarily for children but
also for anyone who cares for information
and anecdotes about young animals
such as Loki the pole-cat, Tarzan the
raccoon, Bambi the fawn and the other
denizens of the Trailside Museum of
Natural History, Thatcher Woods,
Michigan, U.S.
* * * *
Songs and Lyrics from the English
Masques and Light Operas: collected
and edited by Frederick S. Boas (Harrap).
From the 17th century to Gilbert and
Sullivan, with verses by a strange assort-
ment of authors from Ben Jonson to
Theodore Hook.
* * * *
The Sea Kingdom of Corsica: Denis
Clark (Jarrolds). The author is an R.A.F.
man who, after the war, took his wife and
daughter to Corsica in search of sunshine,
bandits and, presumably, a travel-book.
Bandits were scarce, but he makes the
most of the solitary specimen he cap-
tured ; and with that go goats, peasants,
underwater fishing with a harpoon-gun,
small comedies and large adventures in a
canoe—the whole thing told in an appro-
priately light and sunny style.
* * * *
The Hawksmoor Scandals: Bernard
Hollowood (Harrap). Father and English
schoolboy son exchanging their amusing
letters first printed in London “Punch.”
The antics and appetites of schoolboys
mixed up with some tilting at Mr. Attlee’s
plans for nationalisation of the steel
industry.
* * * *
The Great Thinkers : Rupert Lodge
(Routledge and Kegan Paul). An un-
usually clear and readable introduction
to philosophy for the ordinary intelligent
reader who, before he plunges into the
wilderness of ideas, wants to know what
Plato, Aristotle, Plotinus, Descartes,
Spinoza, Leibnitz, Locke, Berkeley,
Hume, Kant and the post-Kantians have
really been talking about all these years.
* * * H=
You’re Lonely When You’re Dead:
James Hadley Chase (Hale). All the
ingredients of a tough-guy detective story
poorly cooked by the author of No
Orchids for Miss Blandish. A private
dick, engaged to discover if the
millionaire’s glamor-girl wife is a klepto-
maniac and is being blackmailed, has his
girl-sleuth murdered and dumped naked
on a beach, one of his male sleuths
drowned, and after all that trouble, and a
roughhouse in a night-club over the
glamor-girl wife, comes home to find the
glamor-girl wife, similarly dead, in his
living-room. The millionaire’s crippled
daughter, who keeps a pugilist chauffeur
in a little mansion of her own, a trick-
shot, an immoral young woman (dis-
tinguishable from the others by her hav-
ing no visible means of support), and a
photographer who takes photographs in
parks and sells them back by' private
treaty to their subjects complete this cast
of charming people.
« H» * *
The most astonishing news in the
theatre-world for many years has been
the success of the poet-dramatist Chris-
topher Fry, who has a one-acter, “The
Boy with the Cart,” at the Lyric, Hammer-
smith, “The Lady’s Not for Burning” at
the Globe and “Venus Observed,” com-
missioned by Olivier, at St. James’s, and
whose “Ring Around the Moon” will go
on at the Globe when “The Lady’s Not
for Burning” finishes its long run. An-
other sign of a revival in the theatre is
a spate of plays from the publishers.
These include two volumes of Noel
Coward’s Play Parade from Heinemann
in a new and up-to-date edition ; Vol. 2
of The Plays of J. B. Priestley from the
same publisher; a volume of Eugene
O’Neill’s plays entitled The Hairy Ape
and also containing “Anna Christie” and
“The First Man,” reprinted by Cape;
lighter fare from Harrap in the shape of
Five Short Plays; Mainly for Women
by Kathleen Conyngham Greene and
from Frederick Muller, Ltd., in Still
More Fun for the Footlights by Court-
ney Hope (sketches and monologues);
Circe by Clifford Bax (a drama based on
Odysseus), also from Muller; and, in
the field of theatrical criticism and his-
tory, a gigantic survey of World Drama
from yEschylus to the present day by
Professor Allardyce Nicoll and Life and
the Theatre (both from Harrap) by Lyn-
ton Hudson, wherein are examined the
most significant plays performed between
the two World Wars and the various
social, artistic and philosophic tendencies
they reflected.
"THE BULLETIN" CROSSWORD No. 62
Across.
" Mms, a ?^ rel *« s UP the re-
(6)l r 01 bees in a high wind.
PCn is froth y- (6)
if agram )-. (8)
(4) fit move m draughts.
12 i-»not Mle ' t ’,‘' C ' for .•'» Place ot
beautiful queen 61 S f - a
itsas ir ® ” a
” PO “°
in
ssSSlftS as
2l (3) n some Maori songs.
the me ‘‘LSne Cl Wo°if’’ th s e t aUthor of
S - S. Van n- , stones and
2l ov ided bv nn« i ne s detective
23 ~~Thi s hill;? e + . down - (8)
24 different. (4) ttle sarnc only
25^TSs y °SibSian ll plant ( 8 )
fijo city 0 f th s J? ee P overturns
31. (6) 1 the Ta J Mahal with
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
26 Pray imitate Caruso when taking
medicine. (6)
27 It is a disadvantage to retreat
or to sketch a footballer. (8)
Down.
1 — Jessica’s father has a bashful
ringlet. (7) .
2 A parent with your bored in*
difference. (6)
3 Leaves some tennis matches on
the Scottish river. (4, 5)
5 It helps to relieve suspects of
suspicion. (5)
6 Profits from the drinking saloons.
(8) .
7 Inflammation of an eyelash.
(7)
8 — A primary-school reader has the
.tree thoroughfare and a social
offence all right. (5, 4)
14 —Fits up the marsh before Teddy
became rigid. (9)
16 — Nonsense, a number squabble on
the tan for London’s equestrians.
(6, 3)
17 — Evil practices finish off these
narrow openings in rock. (8)
18— Flabby part of the leg is turned
down by a Spanish hero. (7)
19 — Club may make an inefficient
fountain-pen write a few more
letters. (7)
20—My hat, father and mother had
an upset between them. (6)
2 2—The name for ladies only. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 61.


t ■
mi i
'"tSi.:
: &
Wmmmm
m
-
■
mm
mm
i 4 / .. » > J ■•"■ i
n
:' ' •• ■ '":
m
SS®
mm
# <■/
mm
■ ; : ■
mm
*?„ *“ ♦ *
.-. ..
% -
SH
/ 43pNB!
SHnB
aissiii
EHE .#«& *
iSliSi
»>><: < : ; ; ;-:-:>w-^>>;->>xs : ;%x<.:
i
W’Sm: n
The A.W.A, monogram on any instrument is a
mark of quality and scientific craftsmanship. It is
the symbol of the Radio Age, representing the
knowledge gained from research and engineering
over more than 35 years.
Behind all A.W.A. products and services ate the
A.W.A. laboratories, which have advanced radio in
the home, on the highways, at sea, and in the air.
As one of Australia’s key industrial organisations,
A.W.A. recognises the value of scientific research
and its important role in peace and security.
• BROADCASTING AND RECORDING.
Producing a Play at A.W.A. Studios.
IW.WIWA|
MOBILE WIRELESS.
§ Driver of vehicle fitted with A.W.A. Frequency
Modulated Radio-Telephone Equipment answering
a call.
i
■-
„. « *
-;;:, ' ■ '
m
m
« u •;• -
J&Kw
«iS:
I f
’m
a* -m
S-IA.
• A,W.A. Air-Mite V.H.F. Trans-
ceiver and Inter-Communica-
tion Unit for light aircraft.
dsf
A.W.A. manufactures: Broadcasting stations, broadcasting studio equipment, communication transmitters
and receivers, mobile radio equipment, marine transmitters and receivers, direction finders, automatic alarm
apparatus, radar, air navigation beacons and distance measuring equipment, instrument landing systems,
aeradio stations, telephone terminal equipment, micro-wave links, radio programme recordings, military
communication equipment, transmitting and receiving radio valves, broadcast receivers, etc. •
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (Australasia) LTD.
Australia’s National Wireless Organisation
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Also at WELLINGTON, N.Z., and AUSTRALIA HOUSE, LONDON
