

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 71~No. 3682
Wednesday, September 6, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
York Minster, a Lovely Poem
in Architecture
yORK, situated on the River Ouse, is
* one of the chief historic cities of
Britain, and owes its origin to the
Romans, who built a legionary fortress
there in a.d. 71. During their occupa-
tion, which lasted for 350 years, York
grew to a place of great importance in
the Roman Empire, and remains of this
fortification still exist today. It was here
that Constantine the Great was pro-
claimed Eimperor in a.d. 306.
The Romans were followed by the
invading Saxons, and it was during their
occupation that the first York Minster
was built in a.d. 627 by Paulinus. This
church played a prominent part in the
spread of Christianity throughout the
north of England, and in the eighth cen-
tury a school was established here which
attracted scholars from all over Europe.
The raiding Danes captured the city
in 876, and under their rule York be-
came a great commercial and agricul-
tural centre. Many of York’s narrow,
winding streets still bear their Danish
names. After the Norman Conquest in
1066 William the Conqueror built two
castles at York and a system of fortifi-
cations which made the city safe from
attack. In the thirteenth century the
famous walls surrounding the city were
built, and these remain today as the
finest examples in Europe of medieval
city fortifications.
The magnificent Minster of York is
one of the most impressive cathedrals in
Britain. Its architectural styles include
Norman, Early English, Decorated and
Perpendicular; its building took 250
years and was completed towards the
end of the fifteenth century. The rich
magnificence of its medieval stained
glass windows is renowned throughout
the world. About eighty of its 120
priceless windows, dating from about
1180, were removed for safe-keeping
during the Second World War and are
now being replaced.
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL
ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


Learn
BBS®®®®
at HO NT:
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
Mv Name .......
My Address ....
S.B. 160 AGE
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 966, WeUingto”>
N.Z., specialises in rare and current, N.a. j
tralian hooks, also in bookish items of ge e
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements gi ve ■ “ \
news, gossip and hook sale prices. (Annual suh.
Book lists on Mansfieldiana, Caxton I’rc* 1 ’ rc *. 1 ,
recent A/sian poets (Douglas Ste Wart, Wu
and others). Specialised fields for book hun
The Red Page
Envoy Extraordinary .
That it is still possible, in a regimented
world, for an individual to equal the
race-agaiqst-time of a Hollywood film,
ending in a burst of eloquence on behalf
of the wronged which draws the atten-
tion and applause of the world’s news-
papers, is shown by the Reverend Michael
Scott’s efforts on behalf of the Hereros.
The story of the treatment given to
these and other natives of South-west
Africa fills the first part of Freda Troup’s
book, In Face of Fear (Faber). Their
German protectors deliberately provoked
them into wars, and, tribe by tribe, com-
mitted such as escaped slaughter into
service as laborers. It was part of their
stated policy. After the first World War,
the Union of South Africa was, given
the mandate of South-west Africa.
Natives who had fled the German fright-
fulness into fiechuanaland were invited
to return. The new Administration fol-
lowed a policy of paternal control. The
Hereros were cattle-owners ; members of
the tribes, before Europeans began to
protect them, owned from a few to many
thousands of cattle each. The policy of
the new Administration was to put them
on reservations.
But European settlers wanted to run
cattle, too; and the Hereros were moved
from place to place until the European
settlers had the good land and the natives
had the bad land. When they objected to
moving, their windmill bore-pumps were
broken. A policy of peaceful persuasion.
Nowadays, 38,000 Europeans own 80 mil-
lion acres in the police zone where
139,000 natives occupy 20 million acres.
After World War II, the Union of
South Africa wished to end the mandate
and take over South-west Africa com-
pletely. The Mandate’s European popu-
lation was willing, and a vote taken by
the Administration showed 161,290
natives outside the police zone in favor,
47,560 inside the police zone in favor,
33,520 inside the zone against; 56,790
were not consulted. Miss Troup goes into
considerable detail about how these votes
were taken, and how remarks by native
chiefs were interpreted. In any case, the
Union’s case was sufficiently doubted by
the United Nations in 1946 for the
Trusteeship Committee to reject it and
suggest a Trusteeship Agreement.
The Union was preparing to strike
again when the Reverend Michael Scott,
took a hand. He had tried to get into
the R.A.F. at the outbreak of war, but
was declared unfit, went to South Africa
in 1943, served a jail, term for his part
in the passive resistance campaign against
the “ghetto law” for Indians, and then
began researches, which were much dis-
couraged by the authorities, into the
hessian slums to which natives were con-
demned in the outskirts of Johannesburg.
Scott conferred with the Hereto tribe’s
representatives in Bechuanaland and in
South-west Africa ; the natives signed a
petition against annexation and, on funds
subscribed by South Africa’s Council of
Human Rights and Council of Asiatic
Rights, Scott flew to Lake Success, where
he was not allowed to address the United
Nations, but was able to influence Asiatic
speakers in a debate which resulted in
the Union of South Africa's being again
refused annexation, and being asked 50
awkward questions. From the debate; —
Sir Maharaj Singh of India i “I, who
have lived in South Africa, know that what
Mr. [«c] Evatt said is wholly incorrect.
There is no such thing as democratic
government in South Africa
Scott returned to Africa for further
consultations with the Hereros. Refused
permission to visit the tribes, he would
sleep in the jungle, and they would come
to consult with him in the dark. At a
warning flash of light, they would vanish
among the trees, and the meeting would
continue in another place. The story
of Scott’s efforts to get out of Africa for
the 1948 meetings in Paris is real movie
stuff: his refusal to give up his passport,
his moving across State to keep
it valid ; his travels by car, train and
air. But he arrived, and again heard the
General Assembly vote in favor of a
Trusteeship for South-west Africa.
But by this time the Malan Govern-
ment was in, with its policy of “apart-
heid,” and ’ the return to South-west
Africa of exiled Nazis ; a bill was rushed
through to annex South-west Africa be-
fore the next meeting of the United
Nations.
At this meeting, Scott made history ;
after a debate, in which the Mexican
delegate remarked that “Christ had no
credentials,” he was allowed to address
the Trusteeship Committee: —
It was realised that something was being
introduced not originally envisaged in the
formation of the United Nations, an
. element. of great potential significance—the
recognition of unrepresented minorities to
appeal past their Governments to world
opinion
The meeting formulated a demand and
a series of questions, which Dr. Malan
later summarised, and answered very
clearly:
“We refuse,”
Which is not, in Matthew Arnold’s
phrase, “in keeping.” Hollywood would
never have allowed the story to end like
that.
Reviewed Briefly.
Facing South : Winifred Peck (Faber).
The old canon has put his own and his
wife’s fortune into restoration of the
abbey ; he is removed to a home, and
the family proposes to sell the rectory to
get money to live on. But the canon
has willed the house to such as will have
tended him in his last illness in it; so
the question arises, whether to get him
back from the home. It is a book of the
perplexities of 1949, “a new world where
the Socialist State has, in five years, con-
vinced the middle-classes of the worth-
lessness of money more effectively than
Christianity in two thousand,” but it is
more full of perplexity than of story.
* * *
The Beautiful Visit: Elizabeth Jane
Howard (Cape). A first novel, a sensi-
tive reconstruction of the adolescence of
a poor London composer’s daughter,
leading up to World War I. She visits
rich relations, meets two young men, one
an artist who cheers her up, the other
a rich Scotsman who might have married
her, but got killed in the war. The
scenes with the children of the rich rela-
tions have the style and delicacy of
Tonks’s “The Necklace ’ at the N.S.W
National Gallery; and the love affair
with the young Scotsman is tender and
exquisite. There is an interlude in which
she is companion to ar old rich woman
with bats in the belfry ; and another in
which she goes out for supper and theatre
with an impossible young man. It is a
sad little book of a young girl’s frustra-
tions, which should make us resolve to
treat them better in future,
# * « #
Winter Song: James Hanley (Phoenix
House). This is the fourth and last
volume of Hanley’s Furys Chronicle;
and in it Dennis Fury, the Irish fireman,
torpedoed in World War II, rescued,
torpedoed again within a week, and
dropped in his hospital-stretcher into the
sea, returns to his home-town, where he
has been given up for lost; his home
broken up 1 , his family dispersed, one boy
getting on well in the Labor movement,
another expected soon out of prison, a
daughter gone, no one knows where, his
wife in a convent. In this powerful book,
the symbolism, never far away from
Hanley’s writing, is of a man, however
saved from the sea, still torpedoed by
age, and left adrift with only the love of
his old wife to cling to. In these days of
the clever, the colorful and the aphro-
disiac novel, this book reminds us that
the novel can be great.
* * * *
General Walter Bedell Smith, Eisen-
hower’s chief-of-staff. Was American
Ambassador in Moscow from 1946 to
1949, appointed (since the Russians were
said to get on best with soldiers) to dis-
cover if there were any means at all of
making “good neighbors” of the Soviet
Government. His Moscow Mission
(Heinemann) gives his views on the whole
subject. He agrees with Paul Hoffman’s
view that the West may as well settle
down to the business of winning the cold
war as the best means of avoiding
another “shooting war.” To do that the
democracies of the Atlantic Pact must
make themselves strong and ready to
meet any attack, give away nothing,
especially in appeasement, and make up
their minds that the cold war will be
probably long and certainly tough. There
must be no irresolution if the goal or
peace and security is to be won. The
Soviet will test the firmness of the West
at every opportunity, but whether another
world war can be avoided depends on
whether Russia wants it. He thinks when
Stalin dies he will probably be succeeded
by a triumvirate of Molotov, Malenkov
and Beria, unless some new leader, name
still unknown, makes a bid for supreme
control.
AUSTRALIAN FICTION.
The most interesting people in Colin
Roderick’s An Introduction to Australian
Fiction (Angus and Robertson)—since we
know in advance what he must say about
For the Term of His Natural Life,
Robbery Under Arms, Such Is Life, The
Fortunes of Richard Mahony and the
rest of our established classics ; and
about such prominent contemporaries as
Vance Palmer, Miles Franklin, Kylie
Tennant and Eleanor Dark —are the
“minor,” the neglected or the out-of-print
novelists who are still worth talking about
and, occasionally, still worth reading.
From the remote past there is Flenry
Savery’s convict novel Quintus Servin-
ton, printed in Hobart Town in 1830 and
based on Savery’s own experiences—he
was a merchant of Bristol who was
transported for forgery:
Apart from being the first novel written,
printed and published in Australia, Quintus
Servinton was the first novel to give a
participator’s impressions of life on a
transport, a century passing before a similar
account appeared in The Adventures of
Ralph Rashleigh. It tells us little about the
horrors of the system that researchers used
later for their convict novels, but it is
astonishingly lifelike in its treatment of the
less depressing side of convictism.
Then, coming a little closer in time,
there is Catherine Spence’s Clara Morri-
son, published in London in 1854.
Catherine Spence was a Scottish immi-
grant who became a governess in
Adelaide, and, says Mr. Roderick:
Clara Morrison is a notable book for its
simple and true picture of middle-class
home-life in Adelaide in the years 1851 to
1853. Its pen-pictures of life on the Vic-
torian diggings... .make it an invaluable
record.
After the convict and immigrant
novels, and after or amongst the great
names of the ’nineties, we come to such
writers as Dowell O’Reilly, whose names
and achievements are still well enough
remembered but whose books, because
the usual brief surveys that are published
deal only with the major figures, are not
much talked about. So we are reminded:
O’Reilly’s selected prose remains are
slight; but his phrasing is so delicate, his
sense of the fitness of his instrument is so
keen, and his appreciation of beauty is so
true, that they are assured a permanent
place in Australian literature.
Similarly, there are the short stories
of William Baylebridge’s An Anzac
Muster, which, like Baylebridge’s poetry,
was printed in a limited edition and has
never got out to the public. Mr.
Roderick has forgotten, incidentally,
Lawson Glassop’s We Were the Rats
amongst his war fiction; but here is
Baylebridge, who took precautions
against being banned:
To use the author’s own words, his
intention was to write such a book as
had never yet been written, a book in
which the Australian soldier could dis-
cover himself, and not some travesty of
himself, however pleasing this might prove
to sniffling quacks and convention-mongers.
....The stories range from Rabelaisian
joviality or Boccaccian lustiness to the apex
of spiritual serenity.
And then, just as writers of the past
who did only a few good things are likely
to drop out of notice unless some his-
torian such as Mr. Roderick revives
them, so do writers who leave their
native land—perhaps not Christina
Stead, for she writes with singular force
and keeps on writing ; but we do not
hear much nowadays about Dorothy Cot-
trell, who has lived since 1936 in
Florida, and of whom Mr. Roderick
writes:
The Singing Gold is destined, I believe,
to be one of the longest-lived of Australian
novels Earth Battle, more ambitious but
less successful than The Singing Gold, con-
stitutes one of the most intimate pictures
we have had of that mighty conflict [of
man against the earth]. Few more produc-
tive Australian novelists have sketched its
gaunt outlines with bolder strokes, and
fewer still have drawn a more gripping
picture of its barbaric beauty and its terror.
Then there are writers such as the
South Australian Leslie Mellor, who
wrote two excellent little novels,
Quartette and A Leaf of Laurel, and
who —though one has heard that there
is a third novel, unpublished—has not
come out with a new book for some
years. To say “not that his writing is
sub-standard; far from it” is rather a
clumsy way for Mr. Roderick to describe
some of the loveliest prose—with Eve
Langley’s and Kenneth Mackenzie’s —in
Australian literature, and one doubts
whether Meflor’s style derives so much
from “plastic art” as, simply, from Con-
rad ; but rpuch of what Mr. Roderick
says about these novels is both interest-
ing and, with reservations, true:
The indolence of the sunbather entranced
by warmth into lazy thought, caressed into
a kind of sensual languor, is conjured up
in his phrasing. His books are all plump-
ness and round fat. There is no bone, no
sinew.... A. Leaf of Laurel possesses a
quality of drowsy silence, the drugged still
heat of midsummer in the Australian bush,
a rather emasculated quality that vitiates
energy; so that even when anger rages, or
passions are inflamed, or when murder
raises its head, the excitement dies off
rapidly, as if the energy expelled cancelled
out the effort made.
And then, coming right up to the
present day and dealing with a writer
who, if one could hardly say he was
“neglected,” has yet to receive his full
measure of appreciation, Mr. Roderick
joins forces with the Red Page in plac-
ing a high value on the short stories of
Brian James:
The Bulletin is the only paper to which
he has contributed. Of the twelve stories
that comprise First Furrow, 1944, seven,
including “The Well,” first appeared there.
This slender paper-covered volume is,
among contemporary collections of short
stories, the true companion to While the
Billy Boils. Brian James is master of the
tragic and the comic alike; the kinship
between his work and Lawson’s is illus-
trated in “The Well” and “Brosie.’
“Bungally,” “Hawkins’ Pigs,” “River
Odyssey,” “Jacob’s Escape” and “The Pise
House” will confirm the reader’s impression
that James is the outstanding contemporary
writer in the Australian short-story.
When An Introduction to Australian
Fiction is thus so interesting and so valu-
able one does not wish to find fault with
it ; but it must be confessed that often
one finds Mr. Roderick ponderous in
style and that, in general, one must re-
gard his remarks on his authors rather
as historical appreciations than as exact
or subtle criticism.
It is obvious when he is dealing with
contemporary writers — The Harp in the
South is once again seriously compared
with Jonah —that Mr. Roderick has often
been dazzled by their nearness and their
newness, mentioning many trivial works
which, unless their authors produce
something much better, will hardly be
noticed by any new Colin Roderick a
hundred years from now ; and his appre-
ciation of even the established classics is
to some extent marred, or muffled, by
his anxiety to pop them into the right
historical pigeonholes rather than to dis-
play their purely literary qualities. We
find, for example, that he declares that
“its virtue as a monument”—to the
pioneers—is “today the outstanding
characteristic” of On Our Selection;
whereas, from a literary point of view,
one would say that the little book lives
for its magnificent pictures of Dad
Rudd’s rages and for its exquisite por-
trayal of young Joe with his ferocious
passion for ants, mice and snakes.
What is largely responsible for a sort
of general heaviness in the book is that
Mr. Roderick —with the estimable object
of introducing more Australian fiction
into schools and universities —has his
eye on the student as well as on the
ordinary reader. It somehow seems in-
evitable that the schoolboy poor
wretch! —must be told not so much that
Redheap is an entrancingly wicked book
about country towns as that it “conveys
a tidy piece of instruction” ; equally in-
evitable that Mr. Roderick must talk
about Toni Collins’s tedious politics in-
stead of his glorious bullockies; and
inevitable again that it should seem more
important to decide that the convict
novel is, properly pigeonholed, “a
variant of the picaresque” than that Mr.
Roderick should really let himself go in
appreciation of the superb melodrama of
For the Term of His Natural Life.
One is not, at this safe distance from
the classroom, accustomed to being
offered “a tidy piece of instruction” ; and
one feels that even schoolboys might
safely be told to look for the accurate
and joyful delineation of character in a
novel before they bother about its “mes-
sage,” its sociological significance and
its classification. But, then, An Intro-
duction to Australian Fiction is
essentially a history and, as such, one
cannot but admire it very highly. It is
no mean feat to read through the whole
of Australian fiction and then to sort
and shape that mass of material into a
study so orderly, so comprehensive and
so mercifully compact. In fact, student
and general reader alike may well thank
Mr. Roderick for a very tidy piece of
. . . information.


"TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING"
Horderns 9
LESS THAN FOUR MINUTES’
m.
WALK FROM TOWN HALL STATION
m
i-
? 5
-A
JT"
T~
r
ii
*
Venetian Btinds
Made To Order
In 3 Weeks!
with the rays that fade your furnishings
DL
uZfc
am
mum
COL
CZT/CDL
BSE
abac
—ii
mes
3
ts
m
Venetians made in our own workrooms from specially selected Canadian cedar laths,
and best quality tapes and fittings, can now be made in only three weeks from
acceptance of order! Our representative will call anywhere in the metropolitan area.
Country residents are invited to write or telephone ... we will quote.
fg
hmhmm
m
> W
2iSis£L
.
~ ■ mmum
iMnWiMpi
: i : B» j
& i
■ mm&zgtm
■iii
;
v
-v^
;^s?
.
mm
mmmm
m
wmm
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ WIRE DOORS AND BLINDS—THIRD FLOOR. ’PHONE: M 2401, DAY OR NIGHT; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


A BOY IN
OUR CLASS
BY J.B. BLAIR
D - I’VE never actually met him, but
I’ve been hearing about him all
my life. He was the envy and
despair of my childhood ; there
seemed to be nothing he could
not do and no treasure he
did not possess. My brother was the
chief chronicler of his exploits, and he
never tired of recounting them. Any
subject was sufficient to set him off.
One of my earliest recollections is of
the time I came into possession of my
first batch of silkworms. I had half-a-
dozen or so in a cardboard box and was
proudly displaying them to my mother
when Jack burst in. “Silkworms?” he
said. “Huh! A boy in our class has got
a thousand.”
I put the lid on the box, feeling rather
deflated. I felt no grudge against this
owner of a thousand silkworms, but I
certainly envied him. The envy grew as
I found out more about him.
This boy-in-our-class excelled in every-
thing. He could run faster, jump higher,
kick straighter, fight better than anyone
I ever met. He was a clever chap, too —
a-boy-in-our-class can do sums quicker
than the teacher —
he wasn’t averse
to a bit of fun now
and again; a-boy-in-
our-class put a frog
in the teacher’s
drawer, and you
should’ve seen old
Barrelguts jump.
Good things always
seemed to be com-
ing his way. A-boy-
in-our-class has got
an electric-train. A-
boy-in-our-class has
got a scooter for
Christmas. His
model aeroplanes
always flew twice as
far as anyone else’s ;
his fishing - line
attracted twice as
many fish. He used
to get about, too.
A-boy - in - our-class
went up the North
Coast for Easter ; a-
boy-in-our-class had
a holiday on a
sheep - station ; a-
boy-in-our-class went out big-game fish-
ing once; a-boy-in-our-class went for a
trip to New Zealand and wasn’t seasick
going or coming back.
I used to try to get my brother to be
more specific about this paragon. Could
he point him out to me? What was his
name? It was no good. Jack seemingly
didn’t want to share him with anybody.
What was his name? Oh, just a boy.
There were several rather mysterious
things about him which did not occur to
me at first, but I noticed them when I
began to . take more interest in him. A
fine cricketer and footballer, yet he
never seemed to be in the school team
when I was watching a game. Yet if I
happened to miss a match, there he’d be,
right at the top of his form, playing an
innings it was a joy to watch or making
a glorious touchdown just in time to save
his side.
HIS family? Well, I don’t recall ever
hearing of his mother, but he
certainly had a father —quite a
picturesque chap, too —a-boy-in-our-
class’s father used to shoot tigers in
India; a-boy-in-our-class’s father came
home drunk the other night; a-boy-in-
our-class’s father makes beaut kites ; you
know that boy-in-our-class’s father I was
telling you about, well, he’s been sent to
jail. There were uncles too, and my
brother used to keep us well posted on all
their doings—a-boy-in-our-class’s uncle
took him out in his yacht; a-boy-in-our-
class’s uncle keeps pet snakes; a-boy-
in-our-class’s uncle can do magic.
My brother was three years older than
I, and when he passed on to high-school
his boy-in-our-class moved on with him.
This was a pity, because I feel sure he
could not have evaded me much longer.
Through my brother I was still of
course able to keep in touch with his
doings accidents: a-boy-in-our-class
fell off a tram and broke his leg;
prowess: a-boy-in-our-class hit a sixer
and smashed the clock in the pavilion—•
a particularly fine effort this, as it was
only a week after the broken leg;
aspirations: a-boy-in-our-class reckons
he’s going to run away and join a circus ;
pranks: a-boy-in-our-class mixed up a
lot of chemicals in the science-room,
and gee! you should’ve smelt the stink.
When my brother left high school
and took a job in a city office he didn’t
say anything about his pal going there,
too, but that is obviously what happened.
How else to account for the-chap-in-our-
office who dominated his meal-time con-
versation right from the first week? It
didn’t take the-boy-in-our-class long to
find his feet in his hew surroundings.
While Jack was still licking stamps and
delivering invoices he seemed to have
mastered the whole business. Salesman-
ship?—A-chap-in-our-office landed a big
contract the other day. Publicity?—A-
chap-in-our-office thought up a slashing
idea for advertising. Efficiency?—A-
chap-in-our-office reckons we ought to
put in a bookkeeping machine. Public Re-
lations? —A-chap-in-our-office was in
conference the other <|ay and ... No job
was too small or too big for the-chap-
in-our-office. He would run up to the
G.P.O. with a telegram just as willingly
and just as easily as he would put
through a phone-call to London and
close a big deal.
ALTHOUGH they were contempor-
aries, my brother seemed not the
slightest bit jealous of his rapid progress.
Quite the reverse. He took a pride in his
colleague’s achievements as though they
brought him some sort of reflected glory.
Not that he didn’t occasionally report
items to the discredit of his paragon. A-
chap-in-our-office is in the soup
properly ; lost one of our best customers.
One night I thought I was going to lose
touch with him for ever. My brother was
unusually quiet at dinner-time. Halfway
through the meal he remarked quietly,
“Bit of a stew at work today. A-chap-in-
our-office caught jiggling the petty cash.”
“What’ll happen to him?” I asked.
“Oh! He’ll be chucked out, of course.
Can’t put up with that sort of thing.”
I didn’t say anything more. I could
see he was upset, and no wonder, when
his hero had let him down so badly. I
remember thinking to myself that it
wouldn’t have seemed so bad if the chap
had forged the managing-director’s
signature to a big cheque or got away
with a few thousand pounds of the firm’s
money. But to be sacked for pinching
the petty cash seemed such a paltry end
to a . promising career.
I needn’t have worried. He wasn’t
sacked, after all; why, I never found out.
Perhaps. the directors felt he was too
good a man to throw away; perhaps he
had been falsely accused. My brother
never referred to the incident again, but
a few days later he casually mentioned
that a-chap-in-our-office had bought a
new motor-bike, I asked no questions,
but mentally rated jiggling the petty cash
a little higher in the calendar of crime
than I had hitherto placed it.
As the years passed, my brother
steadily advanced in the firm, but the-
chap-in-our-office always seemed to be
several jumps ahead of him. It was
amazing how that chap got around; it
was almost impossible to mention a place
he hadn’t visited. Gunnedah? A-chap-
in-our-office was up there last week.
Kosciusko? A-chap-in-our-office spent a
week there, last winter. Marvellous skier.
Taught the guide a new variation of the
Christy turn. Wilcannia? A-chap-in-our-
office reckons it’s the driest place he ever
struck. Broken Hill? A-chap-in-our-
office went down a mine there once,
Oberon? A-chap-in-our-office goes trout-
fishing up that way. Ski-ing and trout-
fishing were only two of the many sports
a-chap-in-our-office practised.
At golf he was both a champion and
a mug. While my brother was suffering
from golf-fever I’d hear this sort of
thing: You won’t believe this, but a-
chap-in-our-office took fifteen on the
sixth at Roseville on Saturday. Fifteen,
mind you, and it’s only a par-three. Or
this: You know the long fifth at East-
lakes? Well, a-chap-in-our-office got on
the green in two last week. A slashing
drive—must’ve been 290 yards if it was
an inch —and then he took out his
Number Two iron and landed her fair on
the green. No fluke, mind you. He’s
wonderfully good with his irons.
BUT golf was really only a fill-in
game for the-chap-in-our-office. He
was still the hope of his side at cricket or
football according to season, and at
tennis, according to my brother, he was
in world class. There’s a-chap-in-our-
office who’d be a cinch for the Davis
Cup team if he took it seriously. That
was the chap’s trouble; he never had
time to take any sport seriously—he was
trying too many of them. A-chap-in-our-
office is in one of the crews for the
Sydney-Hobart yacht race. A-chap-in-
our-office was skating at the Glaciarium
last night and ... In the surf at Bondi
on Saturday a-chap-in-our-office . . .
Point-to-point riding? I’d back a-chap-in-
our-office against anyone . . . You
should see a-chap-in-our-office handle a
racing car . . .
I was never able to make out just how
the chap managed to find time for his
various sports, especially as he never
seemed to miss a race-meeting. And
could he pick winners? Never a Monday
would pass but Jack would come home
with a tale of the bi& win a-chap-in-our-
office had had on Saturday. We tried to
cash in on his judgment once, but had no
luck. It was Jack’s fault really. We went
to Randwick and were looking at the
card for the first race. A-chap-in-our-
offiee says so-and-so ought to win this
one. We backed so-and-so. Such-and-
such won. “Hang it all!” moaned my
brother. “A-chap-in-our-office told me
to be on that. Said it couldn’t lose.”
Believe it or not history repeated itself
in every race—or would have done if our
dough hadn’t run out half-way through
the afternoon.
The chap never seemed to have a dull
moment. He never missed a show or a
film. “I haven’t seen ‘Blighted Love’
myself,” my brother would say, “but a-
chap-in-our-office reckons it’s a snorter.”
For years his night life seemed to be one
continuous round of dances and parties.
He was welcome everywhere; he knew
everyone.
Yet for all that, he was not one to for-
get an old friend. My brother would
come home late. Just stopped back for
a few drinks with a-chap-in-our-office.
He would stay in town for dinner. Had
a steak and then played a couple of
games of billiards with a-chap-in-our-
office. Or they’d go to a show. A-chap-
in-our-office and X are taking a couple of
girls out.
1 BET the chap always had first pick
1 Girls used to fall for him very easily
-a-chap-in-our-office has the girls eating
out of his hand. They’ll do anything for
him.
As often happens with his type the
chap married young. I must’ve been
away when it happened, as I don’t recall
my brother’s mentioning it, and he could
hardly have overlooked it. But I re-
member when his family started to arrive.
My brother came home very merry. A-
chap-in-our-office’s wife has just had a
baby. We’ve been wetting its head. It was
quite a prolific marriage; *my brother
always seemed to be wetting a baby’s
head. Once, at least, I recall twins. That
was just before my brother was trans-
ferred to Melbourne.
The transfer was a lift-up for him, but
it left a big gap in my life. I missed the
regular recitals of the doings of a-chap-
in-our-office. My brother was a poor
correspondent, and his occasional letters
were devoted mostly to his own mundane
doings. Not that he entirely lost touch
with his old friend. Little snippets would
come to me, such as; “Had a letter
from a-chap-in-our-
office last week,” or
“I hear a-chap-m-
-our-office won a big
prize in the lottery.”
The chap apparently
got down to Mel-
bourne sometimes,
too, as every now
and again my
brother’s letters
would include a
casual line, “I was
having a drink with
a - chap -in-our-office
when”
But as time went
on I heard less and
less of the chap. My
brother married a
Melbourne lass; I
got married, too, and
our correspondence
became even more
meagre than before
as our wives took
over the job of letter-
writing. Once or
twice Jack came
across on holidays
and naturally he resumed the old
friendship. A day or so after his arrival
he would speak of having had lunch with
a-chap-in-our-office. Then there’d be a
round of golf with a-chap-in-our-office
and, inevitably, a little beer-party which
a-chap-iii-our-office arranged so that
Jack could meet some of the old crowd.
LAST year, when my brother came
over on one of these trips, I almost
met the chap. I was seeing Jack olf at
Central Station, and as the time for the
departure of his train approached he be-
came very restive. He scarcely seemed
to hear a word I was saying, and he kept
peering about among the crowd.
“Whom are you looking for?” I asked
at last.
“A-chap-in-our-office said he’d be here
to see me off,” he said. “Wouldn’t like
to miss him.”
But miss him he did. The train left
five minutes later and the chap hadn’t
shown up.
“If you see him, tell him I’m sorry,”
yelled my brother as the train pulled out.
“Right!” I answered, forgetting I had
never met the chap.
That was the last chance I ever had of
meeting him, and the last I will ever have.
Jatk was over again a week ago on a
quick business trip. I was to have lunch
with him in town, but he rang to say he
couldn’t make it; he had to go to a
funeral. “Anyone I know?” I asked.
“Don’t think so,” answered Jack. “It’s a-
chap-in-our-office. Fine bloke. We’re all
feeling pretty cut up,”
I’ll bet they were. So was I. Although
I’d never met the chap, I felt as if I knew
him as well as my brother, I had
followed his doings from his earliest
schooldays, through high-school and
through his business career. I h_ a f
thrilled to his triumphs and suffered with
him in his fortunately rare setbacks. It
I had envied him his athletic prowess and
his social success my envy was easily out-
weighed by my admiration. It
incredible that he was gone ; that I should
never hear of him again. Although I dio
not go to the funeral, I am sure I fet
the grief of his passing as much as any
of the mourners.
~THAT was a week ago. Last night as
* I sat down to dinner my seven-year-
old son produced a cardboard box.
“Look what I’ve got, Dad,” he sai •
“Silkworms. Aren’t they beauts. 1
got fifteen.” His elder brother chipl* o
in scornfully, "Pooh! That’s nothing.
A-boy-in-our-class has got thousands.
HELMET ORCHID.
OK such a tiny colony
Set amongst all eternity
Where the great bloodwoods stand!
It is the helmet orchid
That will not lift itself
Higher than a fallen leaf
But waits intent and secret
Leaning its ear to the ground.
What could it hear but silence?
Yet where the orchid listens
Low in its purple hood
Among the trees* immensity,
Out of the depth of the world
Dark and rainy and wild
Sounding through all eternity
Silence like music flowed.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


The Bulletin
Vol. 71 —No. 3682
Wednesday, September 6, 1950
—iu econowv
THE BUCKJUMPING JUMBUCK.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for tho White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
BACK TO HARD WORK.
lx would be difficult to find any sensible
voter who would not agree with Mr.
Menzies that it is vitally necessary to in-
crease population and production, raise
the standard of living and development,
stabilise prices and costs and, in the face,
of Communist threats, to increase muni-
tions production and the size of the fight-
ing forces.
The trouble is that years of Socialism,
pampering and good times have increas-
ingly led to a belief that these objectives
can be obtained by sitting down and
waiting for the Government to perform
the miracle. Even more unfortunately,
Governments have fallen into the habit
of accepting the delusion, none daring
to shut down the prosperity-manufactur-
ing plant of its predecessor, though
it be eating the very vitals out of the
Commonwealth’s economy.
The time has come when the Federal
Government itself must face the issue
firmly, whatever the result to its party
fortunes. There is no question about
where the root of all our economic evils
and failures lies. They derive largely
from the load of non-productive and
only semi-productive labor which the
community carries on its shoulders and
from the subsidies which are paid on
loafing and thriftlessness.
Mr. Menzies says that we in Australia
cannot have better production and more
goods unless we all manage to work a
little harder at our jobs; but his chances
of making individuals work harder will
not be hopeful until he gets his anti-
Red law through. And, of course, union
secretaries and “Labor” politicians con-
tinue to preach the charms of leisure,
of the merit of making the boss sweat
and of bleeding him till “capitalism” is
destroyed, while at the same time promis-
ing that when sufficient bigger and better
Government departments and schemes
are created the millennium will arrive.
Unfortunately, not only “Labor” has
come to think in terms of public enter-
prise. The statements of current and
past Ministers sometimes are so nearly
identical that the reader of them
wonders whether the day of Parlia-
mentary and Ministerial government
has not ended for all practical
purposes, and if initiative, planning
and administration have not become the
prerogative of the vast army of civil
servants and “experts” in every depart-
ment.
It was expected when the present Gov-
ernment came into office that one of its
first moves would be to reduce this over-
paid and largely unproductive mass, but
it seems that the Ministry and Parlia-
ment are dependent greatly on depart-
mental heads for advice and on the civil
servants themselves and their dependants
for votes, so that any move towards
economy at once acquires a political
aspect.
The same applies to the matter of labor
and cost of production. There was a
time, before professors ruled the world
according to the theories of the London
School of Economics, when it was con-
sidered sound practice for both countries
and individuals to consider work their
primary objective, to live within their
means, to go without what they could
not afford and to provide for a rainy
day.
But those times are past. Trade-
unionism has become a vested interest
and a racket. The arbitration system has
evolved from a simple method of holding
the balance fairly between worker and
employer into a gigantic piece of bar-
gaining-machinery by means of which, on
an artificial basis, the right of the em-
ployer and the community to a fair day’s
work for a fair day’s pay—a slogan now
forgotten by the descendants of the old-
time Labor men who coined the phrase
■ —is being swiftly destroyed.
The rot is being accelerated by the
efforts of the Communists, who know
very well the ruin towards which we are
heading. It is because of their efforts
that the increase of military production
and of the size of the military forces have
become perhaps the most vital and urgent
of the purposes to which Mr. Menzies in
his broadcast asked the country to devote
itself.
In respect of this requirement, times
again have changed. A generation ago
it would merely have been necessary to
send out a call for defenders for the
Commonwealth and it would have been
answered by youth throughout the land,
irrespective of pay—irrespective of any-
thing except patriotism and youth’s
natural love of adventure. But national
service, like everything else, has become
a rather commercial thing, measured by
its day-to-day rewards.
Its issues are confused by the surly
demagogues who have done their best to
instil into the youngest generation the
belief that it is better to stay at home
and bleed industry for the highest ex-
tractable wage and shortest hours or
heaviest overtime than to challenge fate
either temporarily or permanently in the
ranks of the defence forces.
Mr. Menzies and his Government are
faced with a critical situation, the issues
of which they cannot shirk. With nearly
a third of their first term of office oyer
they have achieved much in reorganisa-
tion and in re-establishing public con-
fidence, but, because of “Labor” obstruc-
tionism, little or nothing in legislation;
and “Labor” intends that they shall con-
tinue to achieve nothing. It seems that
“Labor” would sooner see the country
wrecked than remain out of office.
Its Senate Committee, tongue in cheek,
is wandering the country taking leisurely
evidence on the measure to reform Senate
elections from all the cranks and Leftists
it can persuade to come forward. It
obviously intends to fight that legislation
to the limit. The Federal Labor Advisory
Committee, with Messrs. Chifley, Evatt
and Calwell present, has shown that it
has a majority, including the Leader of
the Opposition, which firmly believes that
Federal caucus should continue to oppose
the Communist-party Dissolution Bill
whate’er befalls. The hope apparently is
that if it comes to a general election they
will be able to switch the issue to per-
manent Federal Government price-
control. This measure (which calls for
a referendum) they have fought for for
several years, but not out of considera-
tion for the consumer. They recognise
its possibilities as a piece of machinery
which could.be used to wreck free enter-
prise and forward the cause of socialisa-
tion.
It is to be hoped that Mr. Menzies
will be firm and prompt in meeting
“Labor’s” challenges, and that if it be-
comes necessary to make an appeal to
the electors he will put the issues
to the country so clearly that there
can be no mistake about the nature
of his mandate to do whatever is neces-
sary to place the Commonwealth on a
sound working basis, and take whatever
measures are required to protect both
its economy and its integrity as a nation
against any attack, whether from within
or without. ' _____
Everybody’s Job.
The first item in the Menzies Govern-
ment’s programme for combating an
inflation-: now palpably menacing the
whole national economy is the legislation
to remove the deliberately disruptive
Communist influence from trade-union
executives. Mr. Chifley’s refusal to
accept any action against the Com-
munists, despite the country’s recent
verdict, has been obviously one false
step. He is being urged, and is appar-
ently himself disposed, anyway, to take
another by demanding that the Govern-
ment, though denied by his Senate-
majority freedom to legislate, shall first
“put value back into the pound” as a
condition of being allowed by a Senate
rump to pass any legislation whatever.
Mr. Chifley knows the menace hang-
ing over the country’s working economy.
He has described it often enough. He
has declared that it can be overcome
only by the combined effort of the whole
nation and all parties. Does he mean
now to refuse any co-operation by
“Labor” and to split Australia in dis-
sension in order to prevent the job being
seriously tackled?
Mr. Menzies’s broadcast summons to
all Australians to face the task of saving
their country’s economy by honest hard
work could have been couched more
strongly. Maybe he was reluctant to
appear abroad as discounting the pros-
pects as he described them recently in
U.S.A. to dollar-lenders. He said:
We must wage a better battle for pro-
duction if we are to stabilise costs and
prices and defeat inflation. Better produc-
tion and more goods mean increased
individual production. Under present cir-
cumstances I can confidently appeal to all
members of all parties inside and outside
Parliament to join in the task of making it
clear to every individual that a few hours’
increase productivity might determine the
fate and future of Australia.
This falls short—except in one respect—
of his inaugural broadcast to the nation
eight months ago, on his Government
taking office. Speaking of the problems
before the new Government he saia
then: —
The greatest of them will be, to arrest the
alarming rise in prices and so put bacK
value in the money which the people earn
and spend. This is not a simple job. u
does not involve merely some formula or
the passing of some Acts of Parliament.
It will require leadership, the closest co-
operation of employer and employee, an
a real understanding on the part of all to
see that higher production is our business.
In his policy speech, which “Labor” has
equally distorted into a pledge by
Government action alone, to put value
back into the pound,” Mr. Menzies said.
On the cost of household requirements
the pound of 1939 is now worth only IDs.
The greatest task, therefore, is to get value
back into the pound; that is, to get prices
down. That is the only effective way of
increasing real wages. The production
policy which I have already described is,
therefore, of the essence of price-control.
And the production policy he outlined
was: a
1. To outlaw Communism and destroy
its control of the unions. .
2. To get coal by speeding-up mechamsea
mining and by developing opencuts, set
the Coal Board a target of production for
each mine and work out with the board
and all coal interests a scheme of incentive
payments for higher output. .
3. Development of communications,
power and production resources to carry
the population increase planned, the taxa-
tion demands of modern administrative
responsibilities and demands of world trade.
Over a period of five years a £250-milhon
loan to be raised, interest and sinking fund
to be met out of the petrol-tax revenue.
4. Reforms in industrial management and
relations by encouragement of incentive and
bonus payments to workers, profit-sharing
and consultation between employers and
employees for efficiency in industries as a
common interest.
The keynote of the whole policy was
to provide a universal incentive to harder
work, to restore discipline and harmony
in industry, not merely for the sake of a
happier present but also to assure the
strength of Australia against the looming
challenge from Asia to the coming
generation. There was not one line in
anything Mr. Menzies said to justify the
cry that his (jovernment, off its own bat,
promised to put value back into the
pound by some miraculous means that
the late “Labor” Government cOuld not
think up.
Mr. Ghifley said it all before him, and
many times. From London in July, 1948,
he broadcast to Australia the very
essence of Mr. Menzies’s theme:
The Government realises that without
substantial imports of capital equipment
from America the country’s development
will be seriously delayed. The path is not
easy The key to the situation lies in
production. Hard work is not only a
national duty, but the stern responsibility
of every Australian if we are to survive.
A week later, on return from London,
Mr. Ghifley told the Press:
The Government faces immediately and
for years to come a situation in which it
must do the best it can with the dollars
available By our own physical efforts we
must produce enough goods essential to the
community It is a long, hard road
ahead. It would be foolish for anybody
to be deluded. Neither the United King-
dom nor ourselves can solve the question
on a short-term basis
Then, a few days later, like Mr. Menzies,
he broadcast to the nation his considered
reflections. Again, they are those of Mr.
Menzies:
Our own welfare, the expansion and
development of our country, are wrapped
up in our capacity to do better. We want
to build a greater Australia for our children.
Our strategic position is not what it was.
We have to build and maintain a strong
Australia, and hard work is the only way
to achieve that. I want all Australians to
think and act as Australians, to think and
act in terms of the nation... .The road for
British peoples everywhere is going to be
long and hard. But I haven’t any doubts
we shall pull through... .One of the keys
to the problem is increased production.
Five weeks later a coal strike threat-
ened. It was just averted, but it drew
Mr. Ghifley to Cessnock, where (on
September 5, 1948) he told the miners
that, if Australian living conditions were
to stand, “the miners must do their bit.”
He spoke of his shame at returning to
Sydney to see it suffering deprivations as
bad as those of conquered Berlin. He
said unless Australia did her part in the
world’s task she would be isolated.
Every member of the community who
fails at this stage to do his job only cheats his
fellow-workers. Vote for whoever you like,
but for God’s sake do your best for your
country.
The truth is that every man in the
“Labor” party knows without the telling
that the job of reducing costs and prices
is to increase man-hour output. Since
Mr. Menzies has said the effort involves
sacrifices by everybody, there is a plain
case for demanding guarantees that such
increased output shall not merely create
higher profits for employers; and if
unions offered co-operation on such con-
ditions —that fair division of increased
profits were assured as between employers,
employees, the consumers and the expan-
sion of the industry concerned—they
would, on all the signs showing, find the
Government readily responsive.
Victorian Institute of Public Affairs has
made yet another call for a round-table
conference of all interests concerned as a
“last chance to arrest inflation” It
declares that in the past two years, the
period since Mr. Chifley appealed for a
national effort —without avail, and with-
out (judging by his own Government’s
behavior) deserving to succeed—retail
prices have risen 23 per cent., wholesale
prices by 30 per cent, and liquid spending-
power by 28 per cent. Now the basic
wage is (quite uselessly) rising about ss,
each quarter and wool prices have sud-
denly jumped 50 per cent, in one interval
between auctions.
They Knew What They
Wanted.
“I see, Bert,” said Ben, “that the political
columnists think we think we have a
better chance of getting back with a howl
over rising prices than over the right of
Communists to work among secret Gov-
ernment files.”
“As your legal adviser,” Bert said, “1
must warn you that you can expect no
support from the workers in any effort
you may make to reduce the cost of liv-
mg.
“You amaze me,” said Ben.
“I amaze everyone,” said Bert. “I will
go further, and say that the workers
cannot legally support you. I’ve just
been re-reading the forty-hour week
judgment given by the Federal Arbitra-
tion Court in September, 1947. Listen to
this: —-
We are convinced of the sincerity and
reality of the workers’ claims for leisure,
and we do not assume that their leaders
misrepresented them when they, without
exception, urged this claim. Nor do we
assume that the workers are children who
do not know what they want.”
“It says that in the judgment?” said
Ben.
“It is a very interesting judgment,” said
Bert. “Its meaning becomes clearer as
time goes on. They wanted a forty-hour
week, and they got it. A forty-hour week
meant rising prices. They have them,
and they have them because they knew
what they wanted.”
“That’s sound enough,” said Ben,
“except about a forty-hour week meaning
rising prices. I could debate that.”
"I could debate anything,” said Bert.
“But there’s just you ancj, me talking, you
know.”
“Yes, yes,” said Ben. “Still, this argu-
ment about the workers being bound not
to complain—that’s only legal, isn’t it?”
“I admit that,” said Bert. “It’s only
legal.” %
“For instance,” said Ben, “there's
McGirr. He forced the forty-hour-week
issue—jumped it into State legislation
before the Federal Court could make up
its mind.”
“Again, quite legally,” said Bert.
“Yes,” said Ben, “but when that sent
his show nearly bankrupt he didn’t hesi-
tate to demand more money from the
Federal Treasury. So why shouldn’t the
workers protest against rising prices?”
“Then again,” said Bert, “there’s the
verdict of history. The judgment also
said:
Employers historically had opposed
workers’ claims for increased leisure, and
the present case was no exception....
However, history had invariably P^°^ e „
employers’ forebodings to be unfounded.
“Did the judgment say that?!” said
Ben. “Are you-sure ?”
“It did,” said Bert. “And, just quietly,
something seems to have gone wrong
with what history invariably proved. In
fact—and don’t let this go further than
these four walls —history seems to have
agreed with Bob Menzies.”
“It’s been bribed by the Liberals, said
“On the day the forty-hour-week judg-
ment was published,” said Ber,
“September 9, 1947, Bob was reported a
saying, after referring to the court s hop
that production might not be severe y
reduced;
If these hopes are not realised w ® f r s *
for a period of higher costs of pmducb ’
lower output, fewer houses and n g
costs of living.” , „ id
“‘Higher costs of production, saw
Ben, “ ‘lower output, fewer houses
higher costs of living.’ Higher co
living. H-m-m.” . hloke
“And,” said Bert, “Bob is theb o
you’re going to ask the workers to
for not immediately putting j t
into the pound. not child
says so in the judgment.” j t
“No,” said Ben. “Of course not.
says so in the judgment.” r
“And,” said Bert, “you cant eat y
cake and have it.” «‘ W hco
“There’s times, Bert, said Ben,
I feel you’re getting off the bw • tforDl
first clause of the Labor-party s p
says you can.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Wool Prices and the £.
Since the Menzies Government assumed
office it has had three principal problems.
The first has been to increase industrial
production. The second has been to ban
the Communist party. The third has been
to restore value to the pound—or, at
least, to halt the runaway depreciation of
our money.
All three problems are tied together.
Chief obstacle to the attainment of the
production and money-value objectives
has been the activities of the Communist
party, obstinately aided and abetted by
the Chifley and McGirr “Labor” parties,
which oppose banning of the Communists
in the manner proposed by the Menzies
Ministry.
For many vital months of this year
the Menzies Government has been ob-
structed (by the “Labor” Senate) in its
legislation aiming at dealing with Com-
munism, restoring financial stability and
increasing the national productivity.
Meanwhile the effects of Britain’s de-
valuation of sterling and Mr. Chifley's
acceptance of the ensuing devaluation of
the Australian pound have become more
and more evident in the inflationary
forces generating in Australia.
Without the “Labor” - dominated
Senate’s consent to the anti-Red bill the
Federal Government has been able to do
little in the way of getting trade-unionism
to co-operate in a “more-production'’
policy, which would mean a lowering of
production costs. It has, however, been
entirely at the Government’s discretion as
to whether it “up-valued” our pound in
relation to sterling and the dollar. Con-
troversy has raged outside Government
circles on this point, and The Bulletin
favored revaluation earlier this year, but
only on the condition that our per-
capita rate of production was stimulated
at the same time, as without any em-
ployee hardship it could easily be. But
on the production front the Government
has been stymied by the “Labor” Senate,
The situation has suddenly been made
more difficult by the boisterous rises in
wool prices at this season’s opening sales.
There has been a leap of about 50 p.c.
All sorts of speculation have been
aroused by this increase in prices, one
line of thought that Russia has
come'in the market (through its satellite
countries) with the deliberate intention
of adding to our inflationary problems.
While not denying that the stimulation
of inflation in Australia suits the Com-
munist line admirably, it must not be
overlooked that the world statistical posi-
tion of wool is one to encourage the bid-
ding of higher prices, especially when a
sudden military demand is added to
civilian scarcity.
The Menzies Goverment has a, prickly
problem on its hands. Mr. Fadden has
in the past been opposed to revaluation
of the pound, and so has Sir Douglas
Copland, who favors a wool-price
equalisation plan. The Government is
still facing “Labor” opposition on the
anti-Red bill. The Chifley crowd are
playing politics at the lowest possible
level, and, incidentally, playing into the
hands of the Communist wreckers. The
Liberal and Country parties will have to
sink any sectional difference in finding
the answer, which must be found soon.
Colwell versus Chifley.
Victorian A.L.P. and Melbourne Trades
Hall continue to oppose the Chifley policy
°n the Communist-party Dissolution Bill
as they put it, “any policy which may
result in a double-dissolution.” Mr.
Clarey, M.P., and Mr. Stout, of the T.H.
Louncil, have been given those instruc-
tions as State delegates for the coming
°f the A.L.P. Federal Executive.
T-Calwell, M.P., and Mr. Kennelly,
M.L.C. (the latter “Labor’s” election
c ampaign-director), failed last week to
earry this view at the meeting of the
party s Advisory Committee. Mr. Cal-
Weil , now well out in the open in opposi-
! on . *p Mr. Chifley’s views, subsequently
at t * le advisory committee had
. rr ’ e a any resolution, or reached any
j. c ,, agreement, “on any of the matters
dealt with.” He said Mr. Monk ought to
s ay so which Mr. Monk duly did.
!n N.S.W. “Labor” quarters there is
anxiety over this Victorian “Labor”
A 7 d > wh ich secretary of the Victorian
ok. „ said last week “ is unlikely to
. J 186 ,. In N.S.W. a notable anti-
fio„truc/. 10 n—or at least anti-election—
PKifl 6 5 18 reported) is another of Mr.
strp S cx-Ministers, Senator Arm-
W & , After Sydney Trades Hall decided
firm ’* n Ihc form of a recommenda-
ul •? th P e A - C -T.U., that “Labor” should
ju. n - Senate majority “to throw the
ienzies Government out of office”—
meaning, of course, to precipitate an
election-—both pro- and anti-obstruc-
tionists in the N.S.W. party expressed
fears that the anti-Communist issue would
split the party. The official “Standard"’
affected to believe that everything was
fine and dandy, but the A.R.U. organ
agreed with the Melbourne view:
It is not part of a Labor Senator’s duty
to appoint himself a policeman to protect
the democratic interests of anti-Labor
Communists, who not only hate the word
democracy but who gladly would destroy
the A.L.P. itself within 24 hours if given
the opportunity.
And, in sooling the “Labor” party on to
a double-dissolution on the anti-
Communist Bill, that is, of course, exactly
what the Communists will be doing.
The caucus section against further
Senate obstruction is reported by “S. M.
Herald” to have numbered 18 when Par-
liament adjourned in July. About the
same, time, when Senator Armstrong
opposed Senator Gordon Brown for elec-
tion to President of the Senate, he was de-
feated by six votes. Among those who
voted for him there must be at least six
who believe that they would not get back
to the Senate at an election so forced;
and in the Reps, the rebels against the
Chifley policy as apparent early in July
must by now have been joined by others
who, like Mr. Calwell, have been im-
pressed (as he says) “by happenings in
Korea and by the opinions of Labor
members and trade-unionists with whom
I have been in contact.”
Some of the harder-headed elements in
“the movement” add the argument that
the party has not got the money anyway
for an election. Those unions that are
scraping to pay expenses of Communist
delegates to Cominform meetings in
Europe are not likely to have election
funds to spare, and the A.W.U.’s general
attitude suggests a belief that the rest of
the mob has gone batty.
"Come in. Suckers."
When the N.S.W. State lotteries opened
for business a score of years ago there
sprang up all over the place sellers of
“shares” in lottery tickets. You handed
over Is. 3d., the operator kept the trey,
and if the ticket won anything you got a
fifth of it. There were a lot of things
wrong with this parasitical form of
enterprise. Anyhow, it became so
hot in the end that a N.S.W. Gov-
ernment banned the share-sellers, and
all the “Lucky Jims” and “Black
Cats” and the rest of them went
to work or migrated to Queensland,
which also runs a lottery. Share-sellers
got a better reception there, and not a
few of them made fortunes as “agents”
for the Queensland Government. A lot
of funny things came out recently during
an inquiry into their Queensland
activities, but nothing much was done
about them, chiefly for lack of proof and
because the Queensland Government
likes them.
In Tasmania the State Government
also sponsors a “consultation,” and
Sydney people are receiving through the
post gaudily-printed invitations to get
rich quick by taking shares in tickets.
One lot calls itself Prudent Investors Pty.,
Ltd., of Hobart, and is “licensed by the
Government of Tasmania.” The lucky
recipient gets a book of 10 share-tickets,
priced at 3s. each, each good for a tenth
share of £5OOO in a “Melbourne Cup
Consultation” ticket which, if it wins,
collects £50,000. You are graciously per-
mitted to sell the share-tickets “to your
friends” or take the whole 10 yourself.
You may also win £5OO “free” for your-
self, but you don’t find out how until
you’ve sent in the 30s. and asked for
more books of share-tickets.
There is, too, Investments Pty., Ltd.,
also “licensed by the Government of Tas-
mania,” whose potential “clients” get a
book of 10 share-tickets at 2s. each, the
share in this case being one-fifteenth per
ticket or two-thirds for the book of 10,
plus the same “free chance” to win £5OO
on the same conditions.
Tickets in this £50,000 “consultation”
are £1 apiece. In the first instance you
send 30s. for 10 shares of one-tenth each,
in the second you send 20s. for 10 shares
of one-fifteenth each.
The astonishing thing about this is
that people fall for it. The other astonish-
ing thing is the manner in which these
“share-promoters” in far-away Hobart
find out the business and private
addresses of their “prospects,” and in
some cases even the names of their
children.
A Sydney man who received three of
these “share prospectuses” in one week
also found in his letter-box an advertise-
ment for a N.S.W. “special” lottery, and
discovered that every other letter-box in
his street contained one.
Judging by the number of lotteries, art-
unions, share-sellers, printed tickets,
pamphlets, advertisements and the rest of
it, we seem to be a Commonwealth of
suckers.
Highways and Byways.
“Abdul Assiz”; It has been stated that
the rehabilitation of the roads in N.S.W.
will call for the expenditure of at least
£3,000,000. This estimate might appear
to be excessive, but even a superficial
examination of the condition of our
more important highways proves that it
is not only conservative but entirely in-
adequate if anything more than the
present inefficient and uneconomic patch-
work-repairing is anticipated.
The heavy winter rains have unveiled
evidence which may be applied with bene-
ficial effect —they have exposed the
skeleton in the cupboard, which in this
case consists of the bared road-founda-
tions.
The first point which jumps to the eyes
is that the ballast, under either concrete
or bitumen, is entirely inadequate. It
should have a minimum settled thickness
of five inches; as now exposed, it rarely
exceeds three inches, and is often less.
A second point is that any provision
for the normally essential transverse
draining at the foundation-contact is ab-
sent. No pavement, least of all a bitumen
skin, can survive that deficiency, even
under normal weather conditions. Trans-
verse drains of coarse stone add practi-
cally nothing to road-construction costs
if the work is done before the pavement
is laid down. Their absence, however, re-
duces the serviceable life of the pavement
by years, makes patchwork repairs purely
ephemeral and adds enormously to the
expense of any satisfactory recondition-
ing.
A third—and vital—point is the selec-
tion and education of shire engineers,
who play such an important part in road-
maintenance. At least a condition of
their employment should be that they
attend periodical refresher courses in the
elements of roadmaking and road-repair.
In my own near-town suburb, efforts
at roadmending almost invariably con-
sist of the sending-along of a man,
usually accompanied by a tipcart and
horse, to shovel slurry from the lateral
drains into the more prominent ruts. This
is not only a waste of time and funds,
badly needed for effective road-works,
but it leaves the road, after the first
shower, in a worse state than before the
tipcart.
I have to drive to —and reach —Sydney
every working day. To enable me to do
so I carry four-foot lengths of guttering,
salvaged from a council dump, with the
aid of which I cross the many mud oases
in the street which is the only exit from
my house to the main road.
My supply of rejected guttering is now
at the point of exhaustion and worn out.
Perhaps, as a first-aid policy, those
councils beyond the city walls, whose by-
ways are more a string of pot-holes than
of track, will conserve their spare or
abandoned guttering for issue to motorists
—and there are hundreds of them —in a
plight similar to myself.
Can Australia Help?
“C.”: As a footnote to the story of the
Kashmir dispute (B. 30/8/ ’5O), it should
be observed that there is still among
former British members of the Indian
civil service and the Indian Army a great
friendly and influential interest in the
progress of self-government by the
Indian races, and that sentiment has its
counterpart in Indians and Moslems who
have succeeded them.
The Australian High Court judge and
U.N. special arbitrator. Sir Owen Dixon,
has, it is true, failed in the immediate
objective of bringing the Indian and
Pakistani leaders to agreement for de-
militarisation (so to speak) of their dispute
in order that the U.N. plebiscite might
be held. But it is to be hoped that that
is not quite the end of his mission. Sir
Owen Dixon must surely have a recom-
mendation to make to the British Gov-
ernment —perhaps also to the Australian
Government —as well as his report to the
United Nations. Nobody who knows him
can imagine his resting content in the
faillire of the arbitration effort inspired
from outside the British Commonwealth.
At the recent “Cambridge Spring
School” of the Royal Empire Society in
England an eminent retired Indian
civil servant, Sir Percival Griffiths,
described in the gravest language,’ and
from observation during “five visits to
India in the past twelve months,” the
devastating extent of the quarrel that has
developed over Kashmir between the
two newest members of the British Com-
monwealth, and said in conclusion:
I think the British Commonwealth has a
part to play. The Commonwealth should
make an attempt actively to get, the two
countries together in a round-table con-
ference. There are great risks in such a
course-one or two Indian leaders have
warned intruders off the course—but there
ar ®,S r eater risks in not doing so.
The chances that the United Nations will
do anything are negligible. Inaction will
lead sooner or later to armed hostilities, and
the risks of that are so great that the other
r i Sk i ntervent ion should be taken. There
should be moral pressure to get them round
the table .to discuss their dispute in the
presence of other members of the family.
It action of that kind is not possible then
this new concept of the Commonwealth
that we have recently fashioned is worth
very little, and will not endure....lf we
stand aloof and let this conflict break out
into armed hostilities our new idea of the
Commonwealth will be shattered beyond
hope of repair.
Since an eminent Australian has
already been engaged in an effort of
pacification, it would not be out of place
for the Australian Government to initi-
ate if necessary, a proposal that a round-
table conference should be called. If it
should come about Sir Owen Dixon
might well be selected to represent Aus-
tralia. Indeed, he may already have sug-
gested such a course to both London and
Canberra.
The "Ministerial Fleet."
Melbourne Press reports that the De-
partment of the Interior at Canberra is
considering the purchase of 26 new cars
for “the Ministerial fleet” at a cost of
“more than £20,000.”
The purchase is being considered because
26 American cars now used for general
passenger work are worn out. They will
probably be replaced by the Buicks from
the Ministerial pool, and the new cars will
then fill the gap in that fleet. The used
cars will be sold to the public.— “ Age.”
The “worn-out” vehicles “now used
for general passenger work” are (at a
guess) the Chryslers which the Chifley
Government first bought; and the Buicks
now proposed to be discarded are pre-
sumably those of the Chifley Govern-
ment’s second purchase. The practice
seems to be to buy new cars to carry
Ministers till the first polish is worn off
them; then pass them over to the de-
partmental transport pool till they are
“worn out” (or till Ministers again feel
they must have new ones); and then to
sell them to the highest bidders among
the taxpaying public. But if dollars are
short, and we’ve all got to pull our belts
a bit tighter, is it quite impossible for
Ministers —or is it the public servants —
to carry on with their present “fleet”?
Whoever inspired the Press report
evidently had something of that on his
official mind, for the report added that
the new cars might be British and not
American, or might be “American cars
in Australia on which dollar expenditure
has already been incurred.” (How and
by whom, then, if they are new?)
“A deciding factor,” it is added, “will
probably be the question of spare-parts.”
There may also be other factors —
political
A Welcome to Spring.
’Twas customary in other days for spring
to be welcomed with bursts of poetic
fervor in the newspapers, the housewife
sallied forth and bought herself a new hat,
the farmer went to the bank to see about
his overdraft, footballers gave place to
cricketers, flowers burgeoned on the land,
and the bees hummed and the birds sang
and all the racing tipsters talked about
“the Cup,” what time lovers married and
invaded the furniture-shops and rented or
bought the house of their choice, and
there were spring colds and hay-fever and
a general air of newness and happiness
and people began to talk about “going
away for Christmas.”
No poets greeted spring last week, and
the housewife was far too worried about
the price of meat and greens even to think
of a new hat, though the new crop of
single girls earning big money in shops
and factories and offices turned bright
and avid eyes on the shop-windows.
Farmers worry no more about overdrafts,
and the wool kings are sailing to un-
dreamed-of heights of affluence. Birds,
bees and tipsters are performing as usual;
so are lovers, though they can’t buy furni-
ture because there’s no house to be
bought or rented for love or money, and
the best they can hope for is a 10-by-eight
flat or a room with their in-laws.
Main spectacle of newness is on the
roads, where flocks of shiny English-made
cars testify |o the changed conditions of
the motor-trade, where the buyer now
chases the seller instead of the other way
round. There isn’t overmuch happiness,
either, except among the young and heed-
less, for though a man collects a handful
of notes on payday—as much in a week
as he got in a month 10 years ago he has
rather less than more by next payday, and
his missus is hard put to it to keep the
family fed on what she gets. And she
(Continued on next page.)


CRAWEN
mmm
saw*
xm
x-x.-
m
m
'■xm
,.......
'
■
It’s their consistent
freshness that
makes me prefer
CRAVE NA
bmi
G435E/R
CARRERAS LIMITED — OVER ISO YEARS REPOTATION FOR
has to tramp round and carry loads of
stuff in string-bags and walk miles that
she never walked before and never knows
when the gas will go off or the lights go
out and must somehow try to keep her
temper through it all.
And spring brings new and graver
threats of war and awful weapons of de-
struction, and the whole wide world
can’t hear the birds singing for the roar
of human propaganda and the screeching
of jet-propelled ’planes. And parents
with young lads about to leave school
look at them gravely and wonder whether
they’ll be free to pursue their careers and
marry and have families or have to go
off and defend their freedom against a
darkness of tyranny the like of which has
never threatened the world before.
There isn’t much truth anywhere, and
to judge by the newspapers our nation is
obsessed with getting easy money and
whether or not this or that jockey will
ride this or that moke on Saturday, and
at the drop of a hat men will stop pro-
ducing badly-needed goods because of a
fancied insult or the morning tea is late
or the beer is “off” in the lunch-hour at
the corner pub or for some other ridicu-
lous reason. And there’s murder and rape
and robbery and a lot of other evil things,
and all or most of the news is bad news.
All the same the flowers do bloom and
the birds sing, and though poets are blind
or deaf or dumb with fear or cynicism or
something, spring is a good season, and
there is a lightening of human hearts and
Australians can go out and look at their
wide skies and rolling lands and be
thankful that they are still free-—and
have a thought for Americans dying m
Korea in a cause as much Australian as
it is American. We are a well-fed, well-
clothed, well-treated people in com-
parison with the rest of the world, and
though there’s plenty to growl about
there’s a darn sight more to be glad about.
What troubles we have are of our own
making and capable of our own curing.
Meantime spring has arrived, and we can
try for the two-Cups double and watcn
the children at play and see the lamd
leaping even if we can’t buy them. An
all over the world are millions who woul
gladly exchange their lots for ours an
think themselves lucky to do it. A ,
Primavera !
POLITICAL POINTS
After the Federal “Labor” Advisory
Committee had concluded its painful dis-
cussions on the anti-Red bill last week
most papers reported that it had decided
to advise the party not to change its
attitude of Senate opposition to the
measure. Whereupon Arthur Calwell
rushed into print to express himself
“amazed that such lying propaganda
could be concocted either by Pressmen
or maybe by some member of the Labor
party with some peculiar ends to serve.”
According to Calwell, no decisions were
made on any matter discussed, including
the bill. If he’s; right this must be a very
strange kind of “advisory committee”—
at its only meeting before the opening of
a vital session of Parliament it makes no
decisions and can therefore tender no
advice.
“Labor’s” official organ, the “Standard,”
had a different story. It recorded a
decision on at least one matter discussed
—a recommendation from the N. S. Wales
executive that the Senate be urged to take
action on prices. This was carried “by
unanimous vote.” Possibly Arthur had
forgotten that one, or perhaps he just
happened to put his hand up at the
wrong time and didn’t know a vote was
being taken. On the main issue the
“Standard” agrees with him that no
decision was reached, but whereas
Calwell implies that this leaves the matter
still open, the official view is that it’s a
case of “as you were.”
Truth is ‘Tabor” doesn’t know where
it stands on the bill, on Communism, on
how far to support action in Korea, on
defence generally and military training
in particular. Give a Socialist committee
an agenda of longwinded resolutions on
full employment, social security, or over-
planned economy and you can guarantee
unanimity every time ; but questions like
the above bring to the surface differences
which the party is usually able to keep
hidden. That’s the real reason for the
“no-decision” announcement.
Chifley, when the anti-Red bill was
first introduced, made no secret of the
fact that he himself was against any ban
on Communism ; those closest to him say
he is prepared to risk a double-dissolution
on the “onus” clauses. The Opposition-
leader has the stubbornness of an Army
mule; he’ll need the attributes of a bell-
wether to induce some of his colleagues
to follow him down that path.
Doc. Page’s free-medicine scheme came
into operation on Monday. Like the
other instalments of the Minister’s health-
plan so far announced it has met with
plenty of criticism, but it has two big
advantages over the McKenna scheme,
which it replaces. First: it should work,
as both the doctors and chemists are
willing to give it a go. Second: as it is
confined to what are termed basic life-
saving and disease-preventing drugs pre-
scribed for specific diseases most of the
waste inherent in the misdirected
paternalism of “Labor’s” pills-and-
potions list will be avoided; hypo-
chondriacs will still have to pay for their
doleful pleasures.
A weird resolution against compulsory
military training (though approved at the
late elections) was concocted by Mel-
bourne Trades Hall Council last week as
a recommendation to the A.C.T.U. on
“Victorian union policy.” It declared:
Council considers that people living under
good democratic standards respond more
readily to the defence needs of those stan-
dards than do people subject to the rigidity
of military training and discipline.
There was some opposition, including the
commonsense argument of the Artificial
Fertilisers’ Union delegate, who said that
unless the young men were trained they
would not know how to fight anyway;
but the T.H.C. secretary retorted that
“compulsory training was not in keeping
with trade-union customs and ethics.” It
must be the only thing compulsory which
isn’t.
Confronted with a strike of Govern-
ment employees, many of them employed
in hospitals. Premier Playford listened to
the usual threats from the union bosses,
and then announced that his Government
wouldn’t waste words while the strike was
on, would if necessary staff the hospitals
and other institutions with volunteer
labor, and would reconsider valuable
privileges already held by the strikers.
Whereupon the strike secretary threatened
to cut off heating and power, stop ships
and generally play Old Harry. Playford
remained unmoved, the strikers met next
morning and the whole show collapsed
when they decided to go back to work.
Australian Communists support North
Korea,, and are running a vigorous cam-
paign against the Australian cause —Aus-
tralia being committed to its U.N.O.
obligations. E. C- Englart, former secre-
tary of Brisbane wharfies, is an avowed
Communist. Yet Brisbane “Courier-
Mail,” on 28/8/’5O, published a picture
of Englart “helping load the Changsha,
which is taking supplies for the Korean
forces.” We have mighty queer notions
about national security in this country.
In a letter to the “Times,” George
Bernard Shaw, now 94, urges the British
“Communists,” by which he means the
British Socialists, to adopt the slogan
“advertise, advertise.” What the old
gentleman has overlooked is that
Socialism has been so thoroughly adver-
tised by its deeds that most English-
speaking people have given it away.
Queensland politicians are putting out
a feeler or two for another salary-rise—
since 1948 members have been getting
£lO5O a year and Ministers £2250, plus
travelling allowances ranging from £2O
to £lOO and postage allowances of £5O.
They’re also allowed six free air-trips be-
tween Brisbane and their electorates
annually, and they want more of them.
Queensland has had a “Labor” Govern-
ment for a long, long time, and its
members are never done talking about the
“rapacity” of private firms and indi-
viduals, who can’t increase their salaries
whenever they feel like it.
Dr. Soekamo’s latest statement on New
Guinea might pass for first-class logic at
Jakarta University, but it would not
score very high points anywhere else.
Britain is not asking for southern Borneo
or Portugal for West Timor, argues the
Indonesian President; therefore it is un-
reasonable to suppose that if his country
is given Dutch New Guinea it will later
demand the Australian part of the island.
Britain, fired with a Socialist zeal for
giving away territory, is hardly likely to
seek new additions, and Portugal dropped
out of the race for colonies generations
ago. The new Indonesian republic is show-
ing itself blatantly land-greedy. Although
Soekamo himself has not done so, some
of his followers have already laid claim
to British Borneo and Portuguese Timor,
and, of course, Australian New Guinea.
Being half a world away, Britain and
Portugal can afford to regard Indonesian
aspirations as a thing of minor import-
ance. Australia cannot.
Darwin’s Parliament is not coming up
to expectations, according to the “leader
of the Government team.” He says the
Legislative Council is too inactive, and he
is “disappointed in the contribution to
proceedings by both official and elected
members, including himself.” Elected
members had offered no criticisms or
constructive suggestions, and things were
not, he said, as perfect as all that.
Fact is the work of the Darwin
council for the year has consisted of
little except legalising starting-price bet-
ting, and the “Government leader” could
probably trace decline of Parliamentary
“activity” to the attractions of the rival
interests thus established.
An arresting simile by J. W- Galbally
in the Victorian Legislative Council—
“ The Australian five to six o’clock swill
forces men to be like camels preparing to
cross a desert” —and some forceful com-
ments on the drunkenness produced by
Victoria’s licensing regulations momen-
tarily focused public attention on the
liquor question, and party-leaders were
asked for their opinions- “I have nothing
whatever to say on the liquor position,”
said Premier McDonald. “Nothing from
me, brother,” burbled Cain. “I’m stay-
ing silent.” And Opposition-leader
Hollway’s comment was “Definitely no
comment.”
A calf in full milk at the time of its
birth is reported from Gippslafld (Vic.).
No explanation of the phenomenon is as
yet forthcoming, but Moscow “Pravda”
has informed its readers that the cow was
a bourgeois animal, and did it with a
mean desire to forestall the imminent an-
nouncement of a recent triumph of Soviet
scientist Professor Gotsuchakoff, who has
succeeded in breeding a calf with the
characteristics of both sexes and with two
udders, one producing milk and the other
vodka.
Brisbane City Council has awakened to
a piece of State Government effrontery
which takes beating. The council main-
tains the roads in Greater Brisbane and
also runs the buses. An increase in
Queensland motor-registration fees means
the council is up for an extra £5450 a
year, plus £lB,OOO road-tax, and it has
suddenly realised that it is paying the
Government money to run its own buses
on its own roads. It is asking the Hanlons
to exempt city buses from registration
fees. The answer should be interesting.
American occupation authorities in
Western Germany have clamped down
on the export of machine-tools to Iron
Curtain countries, yet Britain is not only
exporting them to Russia, but is allowing
Russian agents free access to the factories
in which they are produced, on the
grounds that as Russia is buying the tools
“she has a right to see how they are
made.” Cravens, a big company engaged
on these Russian orders, last week asked
the Attlee Government to suspend all
such exports to Russia until the country
is assured “that the threat of war in
Europe is completely removed.” Thus
we have the curious paradox of a “capi-
talist” concern asking a Socialist Govern-
ment to permit it to refuse profitable
orders. Nothing remarkable really about
that; Socialism is full of paradoxes.
Threat of a secession movement in
South Australia was averted last week
when the manager of the S.A. Brewing
Company gave his word that with the
exception of consignments to Broken
Hill and Alice Springs his organisation
had not sent any beer out of the State
this year. The 80,000 dozen empties re-
turned from other States in recent months
were apparently accounted for by black-
market operators buying the grog from
Adelaide hotels and selling it at high
prices in Melbourne and Sydney. “Any
publican caught selling bottled beer for
the inter-State market will have his de-
liveries seriously curtailed.” The trouble
about beer is that, like any other liquid
it insists on finding its own level. ’
In South Australia the Opposition is
urging the broadcasting of the State Par-
liament. The Opposition is a “Labor”
one, which suggests that “Labor” is not
only blind but deaf to a lot of things.
Supported by a Federal Government
offer of a £2-a-ton subsidy, Callide (Q)
coalfield is making another bid for the
southern market; the Federal offer de-
pends on the willingness of the Victorion
and South Australian Governments to
take the stuff, and the subsidy is in-
tended to bring landed cost into line
with that of Newcastle coal and of sub-
sidised coal from abroad. A trial ship-
ment is on the way t® Victoria. Mean-
time there is a howl of protest from the
Queensland Colliery Employees’ Union at
a Joint Coal Board suggestion that the
Federal Government should spend
£400,000 immediately on developing
Callide opencut. The union attitude, ex-
pressed by its president, is that the dough
should be spent on the West Moreton
field.
He hasn’t said so, but it’s on the cards
that Treasurer Fadden would be willing
to hand over his £6OO million Budget in
return for the 1950-51 national wool-
cheque. '


'^fy/loS&
“LABOR’S” MULE.


Society
"AND IT's PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Plumbus”: It does happen outside
of joke-blocks that plumbers walk into
bathrooms when ladies are bathing. It
happened to me, to my very great embar-
rassment, but what
plagued me most was
the fact that to get to
the bathroonv I had to
pass the lady’s mother,
aunt and grandmother,
who sat there talking,
and not one of them
warned me, although
they saw me heading
in the direction of
the bathroom, and must have known
there was nowhere else I could possibly
be going. Perhaps they wanted her to
be embarrassed ; but what about me?
* * * ♦
“Macnell” on a birthday:
Last Friday Flinders Naval Depot, the Alma
Mater of many thousands of gunners, stokers,
torpedomen, signalmen and all the rest of the
complex team which make a floating mass of
steel and machinery into a real ship of war,
had its 30th birthday. Every man who has
joined the R.A.N. since 1920 has passed through
its figurehead-flanked iron gates, up through
playing-fields and gardens maintained shipshape
by unstinted labor and on to one of the four
huge brick blocks, to sling his bright-green
hammock as an equally green ordinary seaman
—to return, in many cases, after many years at
sea, to a privileged bed in the petty-oflicers’
blocks. The depot (as distinct from the R.A.N.
College) owns to no mortar-boards-'-its instruc-
tors range from brass-lunged gunner’s-mates
with voices trained to clarity in Pacific storms
to comparatively-gentleroanly torpedo gurmer’s-
mates and radar-specialists, whose instructing
ranges from the viscera-like innards of a 35-knot
“tin-fish” and the high- and low-power electrical
systems of a warship to the uncanny exactitude
of dials and traces and fluorescent screens
capable of laying electronic fingers on and
tracking a plane scores of miles away. As
well, an ordinary working-day will see embryo
signalmen urgently decorating two tall masts
with whipping colors which mean anything from
warning of a gas attack to a 90-degree altera-
tion of course; seamen learning to pull a
“Why don’t you sit down, dearie?”
cutter’s oar in the bay, others struggling with
a running bowline; young stoker-mechanics
acquiring the know-how of keeping boiler-tubes
wreathed in fuel-driven flame and funnel-
mouths clear of smoke; and, behind the blocks,
cooks striving to learn how to fry 600 eggs
at about 4 a.m. and keep them un-rubbery
till 7—a task in which, to the writer’s know-
ledge, hone has yet succeeded. When Com-
mander F. C. Darley, R.N., commissioned the
base in 1920 his command was mainly swamp
and a few old War I guns—now a spreading
acreage of smooth playing-fields and solid
buildings, housing the latest and most secret
radar, gunnery and other equipment of the
Australian Fleet, is the command of Commodore
H. J. Buchanan, a gunnery specialist who learnt
his own early gun-drill sweating in the batteries
adjoining the Gunnery School.
* * * *
“Zake”: Undoubtedly young Alf, the
barber’s new boy, shows promise. The
saloon was crowded on Saturday morn-
ing, and, to keep things moving, Alf’s job
was to “top” the customers off after the
barber had finished clipping and cutting
and had* moved on to a chair where
another customer was waiting. Snips had
wound up proceedings on one man by
pruning the heavy hirsute growth in his
lugs. Alf whisked the broom around,
shook the shroud, Then, still seeing some
stray hairs, took a deep breath and blew
a blast into the customer’s earhole suf-
ficient to have half-filled a balloon tyre.
The boss looked at Alf sternly.
“Here!” he said. “I told you not to do
that. Use a soft brush.” Alf looked
aggrieved. “Gorblime,” he said. “I bin
usin’ that all the mornin’. Can’t a bloke
have a bit of a break now an’ again?”
“Clooter”: I wish some of these news-
paper editors would think a little more of
possible consequences before they publish
apparently innocent but potentially in-
flammable news-items. I got home the
other night to find the missus, a normally
sober and sedate woman, balancing cups
on the kitchen-sink and shooting them
down with eggs. She was clad mostly
in a scarlet tablecloth, had a carrot
dangling from each_, ear, a bandeau of
twisted celery-stalks about her head, was
barefooted and singing in a slurred voice.
All this I might not have resented, but
the cost of targets and missiles —for it
didn’t matter whether she hit or rpissed
the loss was the same —impelled me to
enter a protest. Whereupon she gave me
the happily vacant look of the inebriate
who has soared free of earthly conven-
tions, waved a delicate hand towards a
jug on the sink and said, with that sweet
intonation ,of invitation which first
attracted me to her, “Help yerrshelf, oF
boy, an’ don’ mi’ me. Warrer good o’
worryin’? Purrer anorrer nickel in y’r
old accordeon an’ letsh all be merry.”
After which she sailed loftily to her bed-
room and there fell into slumber. In a
sort of morose alarm I began to clear
up the mess, wondering whether the
strain of keeping house in these modern
times had been too much, when mine eye
fell upon a newspaper., It had somehow
come from Melbourne, and there, staring
up at me, was a black-type statement by
the Victorian Government analyst that
“the alcoholic content of cooking essences
is far stronger than that of whisky or
beer.” I dived for the cupboard. Yes,
six vanilla- and five lemon-essence bottles,
all empty, confronted me. As I told her
afterwards, it might have been all right
if she hadn’t mixed them.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: A century ago Heard
Island (B. 23/8/’5O) was occupied by
Tasmanian sealers as well as American.
In 1857 Dr. W. L. Crowther, a Hobart
whale-ship owner, sent 30 men down there
on his barque Offley, with equipment in
the schooner Elizabeth Jane. The
schooner never reached there, but on
October 29 the 30 men were put on shore
' r m
gd
to kill sea-elephants. In a signed letter
in the Hobart “Town Courier” in
February, 1860, 12 of these men com-
plained they had not been provided with
shelter, fuel, equipment and that their
provisions were insufficient. They had
to live in the hull of a wrecked ship, use
blubber and penguins for fuel, and after
a breakfast ■of salt-beef, coffee and
biscuits they had been worked until
4 p.m, before receiving a ■second meal.
With the crew of an American vessel—
there were seven there at the time—6oo
tuns of oil were obtained. The Offley
then sailed for Kerguelen, leaving 16 men
to winter there and to work with a gang
from the Mary Powell. Six months later
when that Yankee whaler returned and
loaded the oil she was wrecked. When
the Offley got back to Hobart in January,
1860, court cases were brought against
Dr. Crowther for ill-feeding the men, but
they were dismissed on the evidence of
Yankee shipmasters from the island.
V * * *
“Flathead”: Those who index have a
terse way of putting things. A cookery-
book, for instance, may have at its back
“Toughl Meat, to make tender,” or
“Stopper, to remove tight-fitting,” dis-
missing, almost as frivolous, great
mysteries. At a public library you can
see Shakspeare’s known output recorded
on a small card. However, such brevity
can be misleading, and I was) stunned to
see “Child’s Refusals” printed on a box
in a city stationer’s; I thought at the
time that my nipper can be negative
enough without prompting by some wild-
cat printer. Then I spotted the adjoining
heap of boxes with their examples of the
indexer’s art. On top was “Wedding Re-
fusals,” then “Wedding Accepts. Gen.”
and “Wedding Invites Exclus.”
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: A predecessor of
“dinkum,” almost forgotten, was “fair
do,” most frequently rendered as “fair
dos” ("pronounced “doos”). It had a wide
currency; like a lot of similar catch-
words it probably came, from some part
of England where it was current, caught
the local fancy and was put into general
use. Dickens and Charles Kingsley, both
keen observers of the vernacular, caused
characters to speak of “a fair do.”
“Mum”: At Karrakatta (W.A.) we
used gramophone-records of bugle-calls,
thus saving the bugler’s wind. One day
the C.O. heard a record of a popular
song, and decided it was just the thing to
put on after reveille. Next morning, to
the accompaniment of heavy rain, the
mournful strains of “You Are My Sun-
shine” broke on the camp. The troops
thought it quite a
good joke, but
when the same
tune hit them
every morning for
a month the
morning mutter-
ings of protest
grew louder and
louder. Bowing
to the storm, the C.O. sent for other
records. Thereafter the troops were
treated to a variety, including “Life on
the Ocean Wave,” “Punjab March” and
“Hearts of Oak,” with only an occasional
“Sunshine,” and comparative peace was
restored.
* * * *
“King’s Pawn”: Melbourne Chess
Club, the oldest in Australia, has been
ordered to move out of the possie it
has occupied for 94 years in the
Athenaeum library. The space is wanted
for books, and after waiting for tour
years since giving the original notice to
quit, the library has gone to court about
it. The executive is experiencing rougn
weather in its search for a new place in
an overcrowded city. Perth Chess Cluh
had a similar difficulty recently. Aus-
tralia has reached a high ranking in
world chess, but its exponents have to
scrape eternally for places to play in»
most of the clubs have to hire rooms r
one or two gatherings a week, and
search for an adequate player-area
big events is a sustained headache
the chess-managers.
“Brolga”; In September, 1939, the fact
that World War II was under way was
brought home to me not by speeche
statesmen, but by the sight of a mere
man in Townsville (Q.) being given a
of battleship-grey, I could rerne '
seeing ships painted the same hue s
ing up the Channel in the days °
Kaiser’s war. Imminence or an
possible conflict was impressed o
the other day by a remark by the
man at the receiving-depot of a city, t 0
house. “You’ll have to wait a white
get your truck unloaded, he to
“There’s a bloke ahead of you With i g
rolls of blackout-paper to onload. a
flash I recalled the grim blackn
darkened city and the irregular
the engines of enemy raiders.
THE BROKEN-HEARTED
MILKMAN.
“At a mass meeting of the Milk- and Ice-carters’
Union, a motion for a total ban on deliveries of
cream, moved by a well-known Communist milkman
of the Punchbowl (Sydney) district, was carried
two to one; it read, in part; ‘We consider that the
lifting of the ban on cream by the Menzies Govern-
ment is political trickery to cover their attack on
living conditions, working conditions and liberty.’
At the suggestion of the Industrial Commission, the
ban was rescinded next day.”
I’m a Communistic milkman, a-mopping of my
brow
Through delivering the milk of a working-class
cow.
In the old Chifley dairy she ran like a stream.
But she never had no truck with such luxuries
as cream.
She was beautiful, was my Strawberry,
As a Marxian dream,
A ruminating proletarian,
All milk and no cream.
Her countenance, all ringleted, was calm, soft
and kind,
Her eyes, full of vacancy, reflected her mind,
Which, when she expressed it in a dignified
“Moo!”
Was a creditable imitation of old —You-know-
who.
But her virtue was vicarious; the dairy changed
hands,
And along come Bob Menzies, a-making of
demands:
“Your former boss was Laborite; I’m none of
that ilk —
So you better set about producing some cream
with your milk.”
I says to her, “Now, Strawberry, treat that with
ignore!
It’s a Liberal evasion of this here class-war;
If the cream of society gets cream in its cup
I’m afraid the milk of human kindness may
never be dried up!”
In reply to my remonstrance, she said, “Oh,
what stuff!”
And told me to drop it, for she’d had quite
enough;
She admitted, at the’same time, I’d been very
kind,
But to listen to a milkman she didn’t feel
- inclined.
“Oh, the man who possesses me must get what
he’s bought,
If it’s cream by the pint or it’s milk by the
quart;
And girls who go Liberal have found that it
pays,
With a proper legal separation, to have it both
ways.”
The words that she uttered went straight through
my heart;
I sobbed and I sighed, and I left my milk-cart:
“I’m not a one to be reproachful; I’m not a
one to rouse,
But I’m carrying no cream for no Liberal cows. ’
. She got her cream carried, that hard-hearted
girl.
Maybe by a Wi-count, maybe by a Nearl,
Maybe by a Baronite—not Commos like us —
We’d be better-off conducting a Government
bus.
For there isn’t any class-consciousness in buses
or trams
With the public all stacked up in rows of
pressed hams, ,
And pick them up in suburbs, or pick them up
in town,
You can always be certain of Letting Them
Down.
She was beautiful, was my Strawberry,
As a Marxian dream,
A ruminating proletarian,
All milk and no cream.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Bo”: Once again I have received my
annual invitation to renew my driver’s
licence, the fee having been arbitrarily
advanced 50 p.c., in sympathy no doubt
with the rise in cost of the non-existent
services which the McGirr “Government”
licence confers on the holder. In the
interests of safe driving I am ordered to
disclose whether I am an epileptic, or if
I am addicted to throwing sugar-doodles
without provocation. Should I be a
diabetic I must inform the authorities
whether I am having insulin treatment —
apparently the department has a deep
suspicion that, just to spite the authorities,
many sufferers from diabetes don’t bother
to take insulin. The catechism, however,
mentions nqt a word about high blood-
pressure or heart-disease. I have known
three men die at the wheels of their cars
—each from heart-trouble. One old boy
who used to live in my suburb had no
difficulty in holding his licence until he
was 92, and for years he’d had a gore-
pressure that read like a Walter Lindrum
billiard-break. His tally was about 14
accidents; the blackouts he’d had would
have been an inspiration to the Bunnerong
bunglers, and he eventually gave up only
on the combined pressure of the terrified
women of his family who were his pas-
“Here 's your coffee, Henry!"
ngers and his insurance company, which
_ fed-up with being regarded as a
nnfK f un< f. So far as the transport
tnontrcs were concerned he could have
am ed a potential killer till he had
ner hit the century or a dozen people
a safety-zone. Anyway, judging by
casual half-second glance accorded
my completed renewal-notice before I
was shooed across to the “peter,” I don’t
doubt that a frank avowal on it that I
was an epileptic, and with homicidal
tendencies, would have been no bar to
my continued permission to drive.
* * * *
“Yair”: We were piled into the taxi,
making out towards the dog-meeting
when the Super Optimist climbed in. His
destination had struck the driver as being
convenient to where he’d drop us, but
as we neared Central up spoke the
Optimist: “Will you just stop a second,
driver, till I pick up a paper?” The
driver looked around the taxi. A paper
sounded like a quick deal, so we all gave
the nod. The taxi stopped and the fellow
went to hop out. “Call a paper-boy
through the window,” advised the driver.
But our Optimist
said, “Aw, no, after
I get the paper I
want some 'roasted
peanuts.” “What?”
roared the driver.
The fare concluded,
“And I can’t go home
without some fish-
and-chips from the
stall there ...” He
got out. The taxi wasn’t waiting for him
when he came back. But we argued all
the way out to the course as to whether
that gent, had simply worked a fast one.
At least he’d got up to the Railway from
Wynyard without paying a penny!
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Cruellest retort I ever
heard from a visiting conductor (B.
23/8/’5O) came from Sir Thomas
Beecham, and it was directed not at a
player, but a. composer. Staggering into
his retiring-room after a concert,
Beecham flung himself into a chair and
assumed his usual posture of the
exhausted giant, while his admirers
crowded round him murmuring the
customary platitudes. Meanwhile a
determined - looking matron with a
terrified girl in tow was forging her way
through the throng like an ocean-liner.
“May I introduce you to an Australian
composer, Sir Thomas?” she said, indicat-
ing her terrified companion. Beecham
didn’t even turn his head to gaze at this
phenomenon. “An Australian composer!
An Australian composer!” his voice was
heard saying in the pregnant silence.
“Well, I suppose we must have Australian
composers!” Though the girl or her
escort could only blame themselves for
the humiliation, it was certainly a bit
inhuman on the part of Beecham. Renoir
had more humanity. When this
painter of flowers was invited to dinner
and saw a bowl of magnificent
chrysanthemums or dahlias on the table
he would ask his host to remove them.
“If you leave them there,” he would
explain, “somebody is bound to say some-
thing banal about them.”
* * * *
“Villefair”: In singing the praises of
blue dungarees I travel with distinguished
company: E. J. Brady immortalised the
homely garments—and the workmen
inside ’em—in Bulletin verse around
about 1938. But I speak from personal
experience. Tough, hard-wearing, rein-
forced in the vulnerable places, they have
never been made form-fitting enough to
prevent freedom of movement or cause the
wearer to fear that a sudden stoop would
lead to that cowardice which Lawson
rhymed about. Still, with all their merits,
the shapeless “Chinaman’s pants” rarely
give that well-tailored. Bond-street
appearance; an Anthony Eden would,
perhaps, look no more distinguished in
their homely, shin-choking embrace than
Bill Smith. But appearances don’t count
when you go to buy working-pants. At
least, that’s what I thought when I started
off to track a pair down. In the seventh
shop a sympathetic assistant explained:
“You see, Australian adolescents seem to
love to ape American teen-agers —and
there is not half a brain amongst a
thousand of them. Manufacturers have
found that material and labor can be
saved by making dungarees without the
“Your mother's leaving, dear."
reinforcement, and, provided they’re
called by the American name, ‘jeans,’
they’ll sell as ‘sportswear’—at twice the
price. That’s why you can’t buy working-
pants.” It seemed too ridiculous to be
true —until I observed several groups of
male and female flappers. Attired in the
glamorous apparel, with half the shins
bare, they made me feel young again.
Yes; I couldn’t help thinking of Ah Fat
and the rest of the Chinese gardeners who
suffered from our juvenile depredations.
* * * *
“Cryla”; Haven’t seen square beer-
cans (B. 23/8/’5O), but for years Sydney
and Brisbane brews have been sent to
outback Queensland in round steel cans.
There’s a lot more to opening one of
these containers than simply unscrewing
a cap; at a private party they’d supply
quite a lot of entertainment for budding
engineers. Correct procedure in a pub
is to screw a sleeve into the bung-hole,
force an implement known as a beer-
spear through the sleeve, displacing a
round wooden ball something like the
glass-marble in the top of an old-
fashioned soda-water bottle. The first
gallon or so is forced through the hollow
spear by the gas in the can; after that a
shot from a cylinder of carbon-dioxide
is needed to keep up the pressure. For a
private party on the back veranda you
have to borrow a beer-spear with an
adaptor to which you can connect a
motor-tyre pump, and find a volunteer
who will take time off from drinking to
operate it.
£ j|c
“Spokeshave”: Like the decline and
fall of the Roman Empire, the decline of
English cricket must have some explana-
tion, and I think I have found it in the
fact that they have too many professors.
Englishmen take cricket much more
seriously than Australians. On every
village green lads can be seen being
coached in the game, and if a boy shows
talent he is sent to a professor, just as in
the intellectual field a bright boy is sent
to a university. It destroys their creative-
ness and they can’t think any longer. The
Australian approach is much more hap-
hazard and catch-as-catch-can, so we get
our Bradman. In England a Bradman
would probably have all his unusualness
trained out of him by some professor.
Now even the West Indians can defeat
England!
* * * *
“Col M.”; For an outlay of £7O
photographers can have a neon flashlight;
with its 10,000 flashes at approximately
2d. each this gadget is a great saving on
the normal flash-bulb, whose one life
costs 2s, 6d. Some street-photographers in
Sydney are equipping themselves with
the neon gear, and could do good busi-
ness with folk decked out for the city’s
night-life. One of these photographers
made a profound impression on me, and
while I don’t for a moment think it fair
to class him as representative of the new
enterprise, he ought to go a long way.
“Take your photo?” he asked ; my wife
nodded, so we fbllowed where he
beckoned into the mouth of a city arcade.
When he’d arranged us against a shop
window he confided “We do it differently
now. I take the photos and they’ll be
sent within a fortnight to the address
you give. You just pay for them now.
Four shillings.” We had other ideas.
* * * *
“Vingter”; I was a lone and silent dis-
sentient when the "Wiregrass selectors de-
cided to play the new bank-clerk as my
co-centre in the big game against Mulga-
ville. The new man fielded from the
kick-off and was immediately spread-
eagled by my own flying-tackle. Being
floored by a seemingly-demented team-
mate so raised his ire that he scored two
smash-and-crash tries before he cooled
down. We held the lead until half-time,
and immediately after resumption my co-
centre again bit the black soil under
impact of my aerial onslaught. From the
enraged mass of our supporters I heard
six loudly shouted invitations to six post-
match fistic engagements behind the
Shearers’ Arms as a preliminary to tar-
and-feathering. My colleague stood up
snorting fire, and scored two more tries
which clinched the Wiregrass victory
before whispering vehemently in my ear
that he had
priority in the
matter of appoint-
ments behind the
Shearers’ Arms.
All these threats,
however, disap-
peared in the
urge to buy beer
for all and sundry
which followed
the rout of Mulgaville. On the tide of
hero-worship the banker bloke rode into
membership in the elite Wiregrass Picnic
Race Club, while I, marked as one lack-
ing the big-match temperament, was
dropped from the team. The cut was
unkind, since I alone knew, by reason
of having marked the new man in G.P.S.
football in the south years earlier, that
until his ire was roused he was inclined
to squib it. My seemingly eccentric
tackles supplied the necessary venom.
But to this day I go down in Wiregrass
football history as the man who nearly
lost the famous match against Mulga-
ville. Still, I escaped tar-and-feathering-
♦ * * *
“Bass”: Liking honesty, even when I
find it in the dock, my heart warmed to
a man who appeared in Fremantle (W.A.)
police court charged with having used
abusive language. His honesty was
manifested when he was asked to plead.
“Why, guilty, of course, sir,” he said.
“Definitely, most decidedly, and whole-
heartedly guilty.” He scanned the usual
slip of paper on which are written words
too awful for the court to' hear, and
seemed pleased, or at least satisfied.
“That’s it,” he said. “Exactly.” But such
honesty has no reward. He fetched two
quid.
IN STYLE.
“An English cricketing writer who is to tour
Australia with the M.C.O. team will bring with him
his private secretary.”
Let thoughtless ones the hollow laugh emit,
The rousing, resonant “raspberry” command,
Or otherwise contemptuously twit
At something far from theirs to understand.
The bellowing barracker may launch his jibe
At batsman who at off stuff’s feebly poking;
But such a lordly member of the tribe —
The Fourth Estate elan, the “sporting scribe”—
is subject not for joking.
Upon him rests responsibility
As heavy as unyeasted tubs of dough,
And infinitely greater in degree
Than any head of State could ever know.
Within the Press-box, serious of mien,
His staff at hand (he must see that his men
are all
Shrewdly deployed), he quickly cons the scene
Of battle ’twixt the “flannelled fools,” as keen
As any red-tabbed general.
Where could a private secretary, you ask,
Fit in, where speeding ball meets flashing
blade?
What is the special nature of his task?
Say! Are you dumb? Why, when the
batsman’s made
A shot, he sees it “trickle” past third man,
That all late cuts are “sweet”; he glues his
peeper
To copy, making sure no batsman ran
A single, but had “sneaked” it—that’s the plan.
In short, of cliches he’s the keeper.
And if his principal forgetfully
Trots out that journalistic masterpiece,
That phrase of proud and peerless pedigree,
“What a D’Artagnan of the popping-crease!”
Twice in one day, the secretary, keen-eyed,
Is there to scotch it ere it hits the cables.
He checks that balls are “lofted,” not just
skied;
Philosopher and friend, as well as guide.
He must be strong on classics, myths and
fables.
Once Tests were just “reported.” Oh, quaint
days!
One wonders how those poor old-timers fared
Sans help, and never knowing that, for praise,
Leg-glances should to sunsets be compared.
They didn’t think a straight drive to acclaim
As “Like a comet through the heavens
sweeping.”
Tempora mutantur I Since Tests became
More of a big-time business than a game
A private secretary seems quite in keeping.
' N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALTIES
“Carver”: From this mortal world
there is one sure entrance to a fairyland
of perfect form and pure color. To gain
it all you need is a microscope and a
fragment of green “slime” in a drop of
its native water. Through the eyepiece
you almost enter (and there is the pang)
a crystal world whose vegetation is the
group of those simple plants called algae.
Intertwined filaments, independent globes,
little colonies engaged in a rebirth more
wonderful than that of the phoenix,
curved demids, crystalline diatoms in
their frescoed palaces, all of the most
“Mine tinket him use ball-point .”
beautiful luminous blue-green in the
world. And all alive, engaged in their
own activities, responding to their own
lovely environment, integrated with the
minute life about them and with the
greater life of the universe. But once
you have known this you will be apt to
hold strong views about a verse, called
“Commission,” by the American poet
Ezra Pound. For in this verse the writer
commands his songs to go and “bring
confidence upon the alga:.” Now, whether
this bloke is referring to algae as such, or
to algae as a sign of a Pound-discovered
syndrome called “the vegetable bondage
of the blood,” this is very unkind to the
algae. The weaker-headed poets of the
older schools fled from reality by con-
templating only such simple problems as
the Infinite and Eternity; their more
modern counterparts don’t seem any
better qualified to meddle with the stray
miracles that nature leaves lying around
in millions.
* * * *
“Brolga”: It isn’t the desire for com-
pany that makes men camp by fences or
stumps if there aren’t any handy trees (B.
17/5/’5O), but the fact that by choosing
some sort of a landmark they can always
find the roll again, especially if they hap-
pen to have to leave camp after dark.
* * 4= *
“Shamuseen”: Two observations in
my Torres Straits fowlyard have con-
vinced me that birds are subject to shock
in exactly the same degree as humans.
When a falling pod from a rubber-tree
exploded with the characteristically loud
detonation right at the feet of a feed-
ing hen
the bird
d r opped
dead in its
tracks as a
result of
nothing but
sheer fright.
The second
shock-casu-
alty was a
hen which
I rescued
just in the nick of time from the coils of
a carpet-snake. For the rest of its life-
span the hen mbved in a chronically
dazed manner, and, being quite oblivious
of human approach, could be picked up
at will. It would eat and drink if food
and water were brought to it, but seemed
too uninterested to forage for itself.
Right up to the end, which came in the
toils of another predatory Joe Blake, it
retained the state of broodiness affecting
it at the time of the first attack.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Twas Sunday morning,
and Little Curl was sitting in the sun
working out one of those picture-riddles
when Red Louis arrived from Euston on
his way to Tapalin. Big Fleming and
Pocketknife talked with the visitor, who
eyed Little Curl and said, “What’s he
doin’? Writin’t’ his girl?” “Aw,” said
Fleming, “he’s one o’ them riddle-cranks.
Calls it a —a —ree —ree-somethin’. Hey,
Curl, what d’ y’ call that thing?” “A
rebus,” answered Little Curl absently.
Red Louis suddenly developed interest.
“Hey, that reminds me. They’re waitin’
for old Billy Ray in town. He’s bin
buildin’ yards at Tammit, but they reckon
he drew Rebus in the Metropolitan
t’morrer. He” “What, in Tatt’s?”
burst out Pocketknife. “Seems so.
Anyhow, he chucked the yard-buildin’
an’ they reckon he’s loaded his boat an’
is rowin’ up t’ Euston t’ wait for the
race. Well, I better be goin’. So-long.”
Louis left, and we hastily dug-up the
papers, and there discovered that Rebus
was a fancied runner. When we hit
Euston next morning half the Riverina
was there, and scouts along the river
reported the progress of the ticket-holder,
It was before the days* of radio, and
Billy was still four miles away at race-
time. Meantime the mob had swamped
nearly all the beer at both pubs and slated
most of it against Billy Ray. The post-
office duly relayed word that Rebus had
won, and a flying-squad of horsemen,
sulkies and an odd car or two headed
down river to meet the lucky man. But
“THAT stopped him!”
he’d vanished, though his boat was tied
up below the common. Big Fleming
sought us out. “Let’s drift quietly home,”
he said. “I saw Billy an hour ago. He
drew Rebus all right, but in a two-bob
sweep at Tammit. I got him hid. We ll
pick him up an’ keep him under cover
till the excitement dies down.” We heard
later they’d dragged the river and
searched as far out as Manangatang, but
by that time Billy was out beyond Kilfera,
and all attempts to trace down the origin
of the rumor having failed, both
publicans had to mark the losses up to
experience.
* * * *
“Brolga Bill”: I think Will Ogilvie is
a little off the track in “Webs of Beauty”
(B. 7/6/’5O). He says “Where still un-
defeated the spiders are spinning Their
shimmering shields in the dews of the
dawn.” And also in one of his earlier
efforts, “Wagtails”: “The bush is ware
and waking, every spider’s on his thread
and spinning in the dew.” In all my
years as a bushman I’ve never seen a
spider spinning in the dew. It just isn’t
done. For one thing, when dews are
around there’s a nip in the air, and
spiders, like most other things that creep
and crawl, like the weather a bit on the
warm side for their activities. All the
spinning I’ve seen was done between sun-
set and dark. And to watch the little
toiler, when it was too dark to see its
threads, darting up, down, across, around,
pausing here, now there, to fasten a
thread was a sight to be remembered.
I agree with the poet, though, as to the
beauty of the work. Nothing could be
lovelier than a forest when the sun comes
out after a heavy fog, when the trees,
saplings, bushes, shrubs, fallen limbs and
even tussocks of grass are festooned in
every conceivable design and glistening
in all the colors of the rainbow.
• * * •
“Betcha”: There must have been at
least 600 acres in the paddock, heavy
clay flat in the foreground, rising to steep
granite ridges and bracken slopes further
back. Ted crossed the road, leaned on a
fence-post and surveyed it solemnly.
He’d never seen so many rabbits. They
hopped in and out of the countless
warrens and swarmed back and forth till
the gully looked like Young and Jack-
son’s corner around six o’clock. Pre-
sently a bloke on a horse appeared, the
nag’s dragging hoofs threatening to stop
altogether at any moment. Slowly,
painfully the 80-year-old descended,
tethered the nag and climbed through
into the grassless paddock. “Quite a few
rabbits on it, aren’t there?” Ted opened
idly. The old bloke turned a quavering
head towards the voice and peered short-
sightedly. “Y-yair, they bin worryin’ me
f’r quite a bit, these bunnies,” he re-
plied. “C-couldn’t get nobody t’ do ’em,
an’ . . . an’ a man’s got that many other
things t’ do.” He picked up a mattock
and toddled towards the nearest warren.
“Still, I’ll soon have the pests out of it,”
he decided, “n-now I c’n spare a week or
two t’ get at ’em.”
* * * $
“Salmon Gums”: It is becoming ac-
cepted that the earth is growing hotter,
and scientific fears have been expressed
anent the navigation of such rivers as the
Thames and the St. Lawrence if the pro-
cess continues. This reasoning would
have astounded the leading scientists of
the last century, when the gradual cool-
ing of the earth from a molten mass was
so generally accepted that Kelvin em-
ployed the theory to arrive at a figure of
from 20 to 40 million years as the
earth’s age. What Kelvin didn’t know
at the time was the action of radio-
active elements, their übiquity and the
part they play in maintaining the earth’s
temperature, or even, it seems, of raising
it slightly. These radioactive elements
are present everywhere—in all natural
waters and gases, and in all rocks and
soils. There’s something like an ounce
of radium in every 10 million tons of
rock; and thorium, though less ener-
getic, is more abundant, and probably
produces as much heat. Between the two
they should produce about 250 times as
much heat as the earth loses by radia-
tion—theoretically. Fortunately there’s a
snag in the reasoning, or the earth would
long ago have generated sufficient heat
to initiate a super-atomic explosion and
blow itself literally to dust. Since this
hasn’t happened, and isn’t likely to, the
estimated amount of radioactive material
in earth must be in excess of actual fact.
Since the estimated distribution through-
out Earth’s crust is considered accurate
enough, it is thought that the earth’s core
must be completely devoid of radioactive
elements. Meanwhile, Earth, although
actually cooling, is, on the surface, get-
ting warmer; but not dangerously so.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Despite the publicity
accorded the mighty machines of this
age—huge stratocruisers, streamlined ex-
presses, giant liners, great earth-moving
scoops and shovels and so on —the fate
of modern man is still often decided by
little things. Young Brigden has lost his
girl; after a long duel he had eclipsed a
rival by arriving at the damsel’s gate in
a flash little sports-car, but after seating
her therein and preparing to parade his
triumph he could extract from his vehicle
nothing but horrible groans of warning,
so pointed in their tone that the wench
transferred permanently to the aforesaid
rival. I came on the lad with his
machine dismantled; he had just dis-
covered that he owed his deliverance to
one small grain of sand that had got
where it shouldn’t have. Something no
bigger caused the rift in the connubial
bliss of the Carrols; Jim, who lately
visits the pictures, had gone along with
the little
missus t o
see some
show she
“ adored, ”
but, just
when the
thriller was
reaching its
climax and
his partner
was getting
a strangle-
hold on
him, Jimmy
broke
away and
dived for the exit. I found him in the
washroom during the interval; he was
clad in little more than his socks and a
victorious smile —but he’d caught tha
flea. I myself was lately delivered trorn
four hours of torture by a very hurrm
appliance—or the lack of it. Wed
last been asked to an evening at the Dig
house on the hill; the local magistrate
was to be there, and a bookie, and
bloke who’d been to a U.N.O. con *f
ence, and all three bank-managers, ana
girl who plays the fiddle nicely once y
get her going, and a couple of sopran
who aren’t so bad once you get
stopped—anyway, the wife was n
dressed and I was half-started when
had to call the whole thing off- No b
stud!
NIGHTMARE OF AN
EX-SERVICEMAN.
A jungle track, green-black:
An eerie hall, with ugly faces growing on the
vines.
Noises begin and end, cut off,
Abruptly killed in space.
The breath of horror clings and dampens with
its wet;
You see two running men (you view them as a
high technician looks down on a movie-
set):
Man chasing man along the narrow track.
Your heart thumps as you find
You are the man in front and he, behind,
Also has your face.
The twisting, dodging; suddenly you fall,
And when you rise—
The jungle disappears in wraiths of mist.
You stand upon a cloud.
The second face is gone; there is no race.
A soldier in a uniform, blue-tasselled, in a
bugle blows.
But only words come out-c an odd command . . .
Your feet walk off and leave you standing there.
The cloud evaporates.
A long way down, the small globe of the earth.
The floating, floating, falling
(And no parachute) . . .
A rocky island reaches up to take your limbs
apart.
It rushes nearer, nearer ...
And a voice calls “Time.”
An arm sits on the island, with one eye
Worn at the wrist,
A rifle clenched in fist,
A fuzzy-wuzzy angel standing by.
The fuzzy-wuzzy speaks. The voice devolves
Into the music of soprano tone:
“You all right, Joe? Come on, now, Joe.
Come on, get up. Get up, now, Joe. It’s time.”
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.


O* mil f/V CASH PRIZES
for Novices in Art and Literature
Announcement by the Arts Council of the Universal
Opportunity League—that famous 100,000 Self-Help
Organization which assists ambitious men and
women all over the English-speaking world:
£l.OOO IN CASH PRIZES
also many other Special Awards!
FIRST PRIZE £lOO
This £l,OOO will be distributed to Prize-winning
the Art Training Institute, 80 Swanston
In’ i- ° urne , and of the Australian School of
urnalism, of the same address, before the end
OF THE YEAR.
f conclusion of the Contest a booklet
-aturing the names, addresses and photo-
phs ,°‘ a h the winners will be printed and
forwarded to all competitors.
% %
m
CAREER
WITH A FUTURE/
STUDY AT HOME
in Your Spare Time
By devoting a few hours a week to this engrossing study you
can, develop that flair for sketching into a creative, money-making
force for great personal achievement. The A.T.I. teaches you in
your spare time at home. You learn the success-secrets of the
most highly-paid and widely-recognised Commercial Artists in
Australia—celebrated men and women have pooled their accumu-
lated knowledge to produce this comprehensive Training Course
—and every step of your progress is guided by an expert.
a
Test Your Art Ability—Free!
If you enjoy drawing, then why not test your ability at our
expense? Send the coupon, with sd. for registered postage, tor
a copy of the profusely illustrated, 32-page hook, ART ABILIIY
TESTS, which contains easy Test Drawings for you to copy and
submit for free criticism by an expert Commercial Artist—entirely
free of cost or obligation. This is your opportunity—do it now.
SEND THIS COUPON TO-DAY
41*
*8
ART TRAINING INSTITUTE,
80 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Please send me a copy of your free
book, ART ABILITY TESTS. I enclose
sd. for registered postage.
NAME
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
ADDRESS
State
Bui. Sept.’so
A BALLAD FOR DOLPHINS.
rii’mm “Tamaki-Makau-Rau,” a poem, on the history
L *‘ of Auckland.]
It’s a strange old tale, and one that we hardly
How-to 'explain to a land lying far below
The sun-crossing line, even for such men as
these
To cut the foam south of the Southern Seas.
All our summers we sported along that coast
Whose shadow haunted the waves like a calm
green ghost;
We said, 'There’s a rolling distance, a for-
tunate span
Between this haven of ours and wandering
man.”
O folly! Folly! We had chased his peregrine
sail
Wherever he sought the Unknown through sun-
shine and gale.
Twas we who watched him since ever his
journeys began—
Very old in dolphin lore are the wanderings
of man.
Forever leaving his home and venturing forth,
Currach bobbing about on the cold green
oceans North,
Or we saw him starved and helpless on drifting
catamaran;
Cotton sail flapping, or copper keel glinting,
we followed wandering man.
We laughed with surprise when we met him,
lean and brown,
Making his way on a long blue ocean, down
Through the torrid isles, catching current and
Until his enchanted paddles plashed into
Southern Seas.
From island to island ringed with coral and
foam
Wherever a palm waved welcome he made his
home;
But his children were born with the restless
blood of the clan,
And again we dolphins were following wander-
ing man.
You birds who summer away in that secret
South, beware!
His sharp eyes and terrible mind will follow
you there!
“Plover,” we cried, “cuckoo and whimbrel,
hide in the clouds when you can,
Lest your wings betray the direction to wander-
ing man.”
East and West, from island to island we’ve seen
The whole Pacific mapped by his sly lateen;
Again in the South his curious brown eyes scan,
And now we are following Kupe, a wandering
man.
O glittering gulf and river where mullet leap,
O shining .bays and quiet hills, wake from your
sleep!
Dolphins are warning the waves, and gulls cry
down to the trees,
“Kupe, a wandering man, comes south of the
Southern Seas!”
n.z. Gloria Rawlinson.
♦ * # *
“Mat’s Mate”: Like most bushmen
we liked to have a billy of cold, black,
heavily-sweetiened tea handy when we
were toiling hard, and this day was no
exception We’d worked away f?om
where the
billy hung,
and Mat
went back
for a swig,
I heard
high words,
and looked
at his angry
face when
he returned
with the
billy - can.
“B 1 o omin’
great tree-
frog,” -h e
growled.
“Goin’ our
tea scone-
hot.” “Aw,
well,” I said, “I s’pose the poor blankard
needed a drink.” “He could have had
a ruddy drink,” Mat snarled, “but there
was no need for him to wash his flamin’
face an’ hands in it! ”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; I don’t think there’s
any doubt that Cook’s men brewed tea
from the tea-tree (B. 16/8/’5O). I quote
his journal; “The beer certainly con-
tributed not a little. As I have already
observed, we at first, made it of a decoc-
tion of the spruce-leaves; but, finding
that this alone made the beer too
astringent, we afterwards mixed it with
an equal quantity of the tea-plant (a
name it obtained in my former voyage
from our using it as tea then, as we also
did now), which partly destroyed the
astringency of the other and made the
beer exceedingly palatable and esteemed
by everyone on board.” He includes a
description and illustration of the tea-
plant, showing it to be Leptospermum
scoparium.
* * * *
“Kelms”: “Clo’s” Malayan myth (B.
16/8/’5O) of the gigantic reptile whose
slaying precipitated a deluge is in line
with the almost universal serpent- or
dragon-myth, and seems to indicate the
breaking-down, and the ultimate pre-
cipitation into earth, 'of a pre-lunar
satellite. Practically every ancient tribe
and nation had its dragon-myth, and in
"It's still itchy."
most of them the creature breathed fire
and smoke, and it is always of
tremendous size, spanning the earth, or
that portion known to the tribe. It is
accompanied by noise, it is all-seeing and
inescapable; and almost always it is
associated with, and the cause of, a cata-
clysmic deluge. The originators of the
myths may have known dragons of a
sort, but none that breathed fire or were
so immense ; and since the myth is uni-
versal, the phenomena responsible for it
must have been world-wide. The only
event of such magnitude would be some-
thing like what would occur if the moon
drew closer, over a period of a few weeks,
and plunged into the earth. The huge
tide which is now drawn to the equator
and held there by the moon’s gravita-
tional pull would be released to flood
the higher latitudes; there would be
colossal falls of rain and hail and huge
sheets of ice from the frozen satellite,
and flame and smoke as the friction of the
two huge bodies ignited portions of each.
Assuming, as seems reasonable, that the
moon has been earth’s companion for
about 15,000 years we may have to go
back 100,000 years to the time of the
breakdown of the previous satellite.
Which gives man a long memory, and a
long life on earth as a being sufficiently
intelligent to perpetuate an outstanding
event in myth form.
* * * *
“Emjai”: When one of the trading
banks which came through the crash of
the ‘nineties with the flag flying took over,
some few years later, the old Bank of
South Australia, it acquired some solid
branch premises, already of mature
vintage, with strongroom doors more im-
pressive than effective, and keys of a size
and weight which tempted the staff to
break the regulation that they be at all
times carried on the person. At one
branch in an old copper-mining town the
bright custodian had too effectively hid-
den his cumbrous key. Wires were fly-
ing for a locksmith, but with customers
clamoring for cash and a minor panic
on his hands the manager was dashing
hither and yon enlisting mechanics and
the local blacksmith to get the door open
somehow. The miners were suggesting
“blowing her” when the oldest old
Cousin Jack piped up: “She be easy to get
in that there strongroom, boay. Doan’t
us know. Us worked on buildin’, but,
look you, us be showin’ only bank
manager.” In an upstairs room he had
the carpet rolled back, disclosing some
short boards, and under these an iron
ring which served to lift a circular block
of concrete from a manhole in the ceil-
ing of the strongroom. The office junior
was lowered in, and in no time the cash
was flowing again. At headquarters
hands were raised in horror and rush
orders issued for the sealing of the man-
hole and installation of a new door with
duplicate keys, while old Polglase
mourned the secret that was his no
more.
♦ * * ♦
“Solitude”: It threatened heavy frost,
and Seventyfiver was without camping-
gear. He turned his nag into the pad-
dock behind the pub, chained Blue and
the new mong under a tree on the slope
further back, and, making for the road-
side establishment, booked himself in for
the night. There were half a dozen others
on the premises—travellers, drovers and
tourists —and after a convivial evening
together all hands retired. Several hours
passed, then Seventyfiver sat up in bed
and listened. “Them blasted dogs o’
mine,” he remarked to the darkness. He
whistled shrilly several times, and lay
down, only
to lift his
head and
listen again.
“Aw, cripes.
I’ll ’ave to
shut ’em up,
I s’pose,”
He climbed
out of bed
and trans-
ferred him-
self to the
side ver-
anda. “Sid-
down there, y’ silly blankety blankers,”
he bawled in a stentorian voice. “Sid-
down, can’t y’.” The snoring in the next
room ended abruptly, a bed creaked
further along the veranda and a bloke
grunted, but the dogs sang merrily on.
Seventyfiver taxed his lungs in a fresh
effort, and stamped the length of the
veranda. “Shut up, can’t y’! SHUT UP.”
A window opened cautiously, and a boot
missed the old bloke by a whisker. “Sid-
down, I said; an’ shut up,” he bellowed.
“By cripes, I’m ’shamed o’ the pair o’
yez, wakin’ everybody up like this!”
♦ * * *
“R. Casey”: Tell “Bogaduck” (B.
9/8/’5O) that the antics he noted in small
dogs are an atavistic trait. Same per-
formance is noted in larger dogs when-
ever they pause. Reason —the first dog
there ever was forgot to raise his leg and
the building fell on him.
* , * * *
“Fairf”: Queer that of all the ballads
I’ve enjoyed from “Old-timer’s” pen the
one I recall with most feeling is one
whose title I’ve forgotten. Was it
“Saturdee Night” or “Sundee Night”?
At any rate, it could have been written
in the old kitchen at home. Ever since
I first managed to lisp “fifteen-two” I re-
call Sunday night as crib-night, with
Dad an ever-willing starter. Average six
to eight games a night, multiply by at
least 52 sessions a year and the tally of
games begins to reach big figures. Take
that total per annum over the 38 years I
can remember back and it means that
something like 14,000 games have been
played in that kitchen. But in that num-
ber only three times has a 28 been held
in hand, and—until last Sunday night—
nobody had held the possible: 29. In
the last game “We” wanted two holes
to win; so did “They.” They dealt. I
got three fives, a jack of hearts and a
nine. The nine promptly went out in
crib, I cut. A five of hearts turned up,
I had 29! But it was my lead. To play
a five was to look for trouble ; nobody
could 15 the jack., I led the court-card.
It was promptly paired. We’d lost the
game. And me with 29 in hand and my
first “take”!
* * * *
“H.H.”: Ever noticed the tracks of
the little white-fronted chat? In the
swampy, samphire-bush country you may
follow the little fellow for miles, because
each of his tiny feet leaves the perfect
imprint of a Christian cross.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1941.. 190,276 64 p.c.= 175,500 14,776 1.223.668
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,213,668
1942. . 186,653 64 p.c.= 175,500 11,153 1,224,821
1943.. 185,739 64 ~,,175,500 10,239 1,235,060
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. . • 1,225,060
1944.. 185,594 64 p.c.= 175,500 10,094 1,235,154
1945.. 168,180 6 „ ~ 162,000 6,180 1,241,334
1946.. 163,438 6 „ „ 162,000 1,438 1,242,772
1947.-215,439 7*,, ~202,500 12,939 1,255,711
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,245,711
1948.. 244,973 8 p.c. = 221,928 23,045 1,268,756
To provident fund, £20,419 .. .. 1,248,337
1949.. 380,687 10 p.c. = 277,410 103,277 1,351,614
1950.. 641,367 12 „ „ 339,156 302,211 1,653,825
To provident fund, £25,000 .. 1,628,825
All sections of this big woolbroking,
pastoral-finance, agency and merchan-
dising business, which operates mainly
in South Australia (the co.’s home State),
Westralia and Victoria, contributed to
the extraordinary leap of £260,680 in last
term’s record profit figure. Main factors
responsible for the fatness were: (1)
still-higher prices for wool and livestock,
(2) another good season, the third in suc-
cession, (3) continued expansion of the
business by absorption and otherwise, and
(4) a windfall distribution (£24.3 million
to Australian growers) of profits on dis-
posal of accumulated war-time wool
stocks by J.O. They were a fortuituous
combination of extraordinary circum-
stances which, for the most part, look
like being repeated for the current term.
They cannot be expected to continue in-
definitely, though with ominous war
clouds on the horizon nobody can say
definitely what will happen over the next
few years.
Early in the term the co. bought the
Victorian business and assets of its old
friend, the Commonwealth Wool and
Produce Co., at an unstated figure—the
vendor’s freeholds decreased by £144,312
net, and its reserves benefited by
£130,000. The deal gave Elder Smith
a much-needed wool-store and more
office-space in Melbourne, and, on 1949
figures, would increase the physical
volume of its Victorian wool and live-
stock business by about 50 p.c. Elder
Smith also took up 100,000 f.-p. £1 shares
in the Commonwealth co., and the Com-
monwealth co. took 87,000 £1 shares paid
to 12s. each in Elder Smith. This
marriage of interests has given Elders a
direct interest in wool and livestock in
N. S. Wales (where its activities were
previously confined to shipping and
merchandising arrangements), and put
more stiffening into the Commonwealth
co., on whose board Elders is now repre-
sented. On a dividend basis (last term’s
rates) the respective holdings will turn in
£7OOO to Elders and £10,040 to the Com-
monwealth co.
For the year to June 30 last the Aus-
tralian wool clip (of which Elders handles
in the neighborhood of 12 p.c.) totalled
3,593,757 bales (up 352,140 bales), which
realised £286,628,900, or £92-odd million
more than for the previous season, and
7.3 times the 1939 figure. The average
price per pound (greasy and scoured com-
bined) was 63.77 d., or 31.5 p.c. above the
previous year’s average. The co.’s
merchandising sales (£13.6 million) in-
creased by £4.2 million and its livestock
turnover (£12.7 million) by £3.5 million,
while ship-chartering and other activities
also helped to swell the pool.
The leap in gross earnings was no less
than £745,995, after writing £83,336 (up
£22,350) off the book-value of premises
and plant and making an unspecified pro-
vision for bad debts, etc,:
Exes. p.c.
Gross.* Exes.f Gross. Net.
1946 £901,651 £738,213 81.9 £163,438
1947 .. 1,196,349 980,910 82.0 125,439
1948 ~ 1,434,851 1,189,879 82.9 244,973
1949 ~ 1,868,025 1,487,338 79.6 380,687
1950 .. 2,614,020 1,972,653 75.4 641,367
* After providing for contingencies and depreciation
of premises and plant. f Includes provision for
taxation.
Of the growth of £485,315 in exes.,
£243,500 was in respect of provision for
taxation (£463,500). The £641,367 of
profit was 22.6 p.c. on capital as against
13.7, 8.8, 7.9, 6, 6.2 and 6.8 p.c. back to
1944. The distribution was lifted from
10 p.c to 12 p.c., of which the cautious
board labelled 4 p.c. bonus. Only twice
since the beginning of this century have
shareholders received more than 12 p.c.,
namely in 1920 and 1923, when the rate
was 12i p.c.
The effects of inflated prices, of con-
tinued expansion of the business, as well
as a strong liquid position, which means
ability to further assist clients when the
need arises, are the outstanding features
of balance-sheet figures:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £2,774,100 £2,774,100 £2,826,300
Deposits, etc. .. 667,322 690,244 741,474
Sundry cr’tors, etc. 4,220,343 4,465,919 6,824,579
Tax provision .. 390,422 321,519 499,523
Final div. .. 138,705 166,446 226,104
Freeholds, plant, etc. 963,776 1,136,043 1,768,913
Gov. sec. and cash 4,220,343 4,337,144 4,549,756
Advances, etc. .. 3,852,852 3,280,375 4,714,964
Stocks . . . . 446,985 740,205 1,287,867
Shares other cos... 269,961 276,075 425,305
The growths in the creditors’ item (up
£2,358,660) and in advances (up
£1,434,589) are due partly to wool trans-
actions unsettled at balancing-date. The
addition to freeholds, plant, etc. (up
£636,870), reflects purchase of the Com-
monwealth co.’s Victorian assets, as
well as all-round provision for handling
bigger business. When the books closed.
Government securities and cash alone
amounted to 16s. Id. of every pound com-
ing to outsiders, including the final div.
The current term opened with seasonal
conditions excellent and wool at danger-
ously high prices. For about 35,000
bales sold in Sydney during the first
three days of the 1950-51 auctions nearly
£4,300,000 was received, an average of
nearly £123 per bale, which is
over 54 p.c. more than the average per
bale (£79 155.) for the whole of last
season. How long prices are likely to
continue at or around present levels is
anybody’s guess. World consumption of
wool is estimated to be running 10-15 p.c.
ahead of current production. Strength
of the demand lies mainly in the level of
employment and purchasing-power in the
northern hemisphere. In the long-run
present prices—full effects of which will
not be felt in retail markets for some
months —can hardly fail to produce con-
sumer resistance and stimulate competi-
tion from artificial fibres. Meanwhile,
the effects locally - will be to expand the
credit base, stimulate spending, raise
costs and generally strengthen inflationary
pressures, which expenditure on public
works, defence and immigration will
further strengthen. It is a dangerous de-
velopment which, if allowed to proceed
unchecked, is likely to go off with a bang
at some future date. Hence the concern
of the people and the Government, which
is considering ways and means of freez-
ing part of the inflated income from wool
in order to neutralise its effects upon the
Australian economy as. a whole. Appli-
cation of a single corrective, however, is
not likely to prove an effective solution to
the problem as a whole.
The co.’s pound shares paid to 12s.
each, which fetched 245. 2d. in the market
a year ago, rose from 275. 6d. to 295. 9d,
following the opening of the wool sales.
The return at 295. 9d. is 4.8 p.c. on a
12 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover
is 18s. lid., book-value.
I
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane)
t —Dividends—^
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5J p.c. 7 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1940.. 79,500 10,957 67,511 1,032 144,210
1941.. 84,461 10,957 73,321 183 144,393
6 p.c.
1942.. 74,440 10,958 62,846 636 145,029
1943.. 93,897 10,958 62,846 20,093 165,122
7 p.c.
1944. .114,809 10,958 78,320 30,531 195,653
1946. .121,063 10,958 73,320 30,785 232,438
1946. .115,868 10,958 73,320 31,590 264,028
1947. .120,812 10,958 73,320 36,534 300,562
1948. .128,20! 10,958 73,320 38,926 339,488
1949. .123,661 10,958 73,320 89,383 378,871
1950.. 93,625 10,958 73,320 9,347 388,218
What has happened here? The board
says “the co.’s affairs are in a satis-
factory state.” Yet there was a sharp con-
traction of £30,036 (24.2 p.c.) in last
term’s declared net earnings, which are
back to the 1943 level. That was after
allowing £37,629 (up £1914) for deprecia-
tion and whatever was considered neces-
sary for taxation and other contingencies.
The £93,625 of profit claimed covered
the pref. div. and 7.9 p.c. on the
£1,047,432 of ofd’ capital, compared with
10.7, 10.7, 10.5, 10, 10.5, 9 and 7.9 p.c.
back to 1943. There was no hesitation
in repeating the 7 p.c. div., which, with
two exceptions (1942 and 1943), has been
an annual event since 1932.
Turnover, gross earnings and exes, are
not disclosed. According to the Com-
monwealth statistician, beer-production
in Australia increased by 10 million
gallons, or 6.8 p.c., reaching a record 156
million gallons, equal to over 19 gallons
per head of population, for the year to
lune 30, 1950; this despite the nation-
wide coal strike which interrupted beer
production for about seven weeks early
in the year. The board says it was “the
coal strike and the many increases in
the cost of production and overhead,
without any increase in the selling-price
of beer,” which were mainly responsible
for the marked decline in profit.
For the preceding decade steadily ex-
panding beer consumption, and therefore
growth in brewery turnover, had more
than taken care of the steep and per-
sistent rise in costs. Now, in the absence
of a lift in the controlled selling-price of
beer, costs have won the race. For the
12 months to the beginning of May last
the basic wage—a nominal figure these
days increased by 10s., reaching
£6 13s. a week in Queensland, and
further substantial increases are antici-
pated. The costs of malt, hops, sugar
and other brewing ingredients, as well as
bottles and" transport;, etc., have all in-
creased, too. As the effects of wage-hits
snowball through the economy the price
of everything keeps on increasing until
the last position becomes much worse
than the first.
In excise alone (4s, 7d. a gallon) the
Government makes off with 75 p.c. of
gross receipts from bulk beer, leaving
only ss. sd. in the pound for the brewer,
who carries all the risks and is taxed again
on profits, while there is further bleeding
of shareholders on the profits that are
distributed. However, with Government
spending gobbling more and more of our
expanding national income, there is little
prospect of any relief from excise or
income-tax. If further contraction of the
net earnings of brewers in the northern
State is to be avoided, the selling-price of
beer will need to be raised. This has been
done in Victoria to the extent of sd. a
gallon over the last couple of years, and
brewers in N. S. Wales are asking their
Government to lift selling-prices, too.
This Queensland co.’s business ex-
panded very rapidly before the war.
During the eight years to 1940 share-
holders put up £947,815 of fresh capital
at par. The lot, and more besides, went
into fixed assets, including hotel pro-
perties, purchase of which is the form
competition takes, there being no price-
cutting in the trade:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
£ £ £ &
Paid capital 1,246,666 1,246,666 1,246,666 1,246,666
Liabilities .. 431,826 421,856 426,035 474,294
Pinal div. .. 42,139 42,139 42,189 42,139
Fixed assets 1,715,667 1,708,571 1,713,366 1,728,172
Stocks . , 155,718 213,078 230,463 287,439
Book debts.. 108,019 121,712 143,094 128,918
Investments.. 41,788 6,788 6,788 6,788
To meet last term’s net additions of
£14,806 to fixed assets and of £56,976 to
stocks the co. leant upon sundry creditors
for an extra £48,259 and reduced book
debts by £14,176. During the year the
excess of outside liabilities (including the
final div.) over more-or-less liquids in-
creased by £5459, reaching £93,288.
The market, which thinks the board
might have conservatively stated the
year’s profit, notes the co.’s strong posi-
tion in the trade, the buoyant outlook on
the demand side, the brewers’ strong case
for a lift, in the selling-price of beer, and
that shareholders might later on be asked
to assist in the renovation and modernisa-
tion of hotels, which will call for consid-
erable outlay when materials and labor
become available. It therefore prices the
pound ords. at 40s. 3d. (38s. 9d. a year
ago), giving an immediate return of only
3.4 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. The prefs.
at 28s. 3d. yield 3.9 p.c. Net tangible
cover is £8 4s. Id. prefs. and 275. sd. ords.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Net Dividends, Written To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Off, Etc. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1940 .. 29,125 20,000 4,000 5,125 279,226
1941 .. 26,818 20,000 2,500 4,818 283,544
1942 .. 24,141 20,000 2,500 1,041 285,185
1943 .. 25,940 20,000 2,500 3,440 288,626
1944 .. 26,612 20,000 2,500 4,112 292,737
1945 . . 24,304 20,000 2,600 1,804 294,541
12J p.c.
1946 .. 29,192 25,000 2,500 1,692 296,233
1947 . . 27,895 25,000 1,250 1,645 297,878
1948 .. 27,354 25,000 2,354 800,232
1949 . . 26,123 25,000 1,123 801,355
1950 .. 28,180 25,000 3,180 304,534
This is Australia’s largest trustee co.,
and a very solid institution it is, too. At
June 30 last it had reserves of £304,534
to support and assist the £200,000 of paid
capital, and shareholders, who got a
steady 10 p.c. for the nine years to close
of accounts in 1945, have had a regular
12i p.c. for the five years since. Although
the business can be expected to keep on
expanding, and a small increase in con-
trolled commission charges was granted
a year or so ago, there is nothing to sug-
gest that anything better than 12i p.c.
need be looked for at present; indeed, the
co. might have a struggle to maintain
12-jr p.c. for a while. The tussle is, and has
been for over a decade, one between
rapidly-rising costs and steadily-growing
returns from an increasing volume of
business. Despite an increase of 58.3 p.c.
in income over the last 11 years, last
term’s net earnings were still £3239 short
of the 1939 figure.
The co.’s own funds (capital and re-
serves combined) and the trustee section
of the business are each turning in less
than they used too, while the amount of
work associated with the administration of
estates has increased enormously. Assum-
ing that the cp.’s own funds now turn in
only 3 p.c. net as against, say, 4 p.c. in
1939, the balance of last term’s profit was
equal to only 4.43 d. per £lOO of trust
business on the books as against 5.23 d.
in 1939. And current inflationary trends
promise to push solution of the costs
problem further into the background.
Although beneficiaries with pastoral
and agricultural interests have gained
from the high, and still rising, prices for
primary products, those dependent upon
income from authorised trustee invest-
ments alone have been less fortunate, and
it’s hard to say when their lot will im-
prove. Hence the need for testators to re-
vise their wills, especially in relation to
powers of investment. Last term the co.’s
turnover on trust account was £3,970,000-
odd in stocks and shares and £1,779,860
in real estate.
The amount of new business put on the
books during the year exceeded the value
of estates wound up by £2,310,799. In-
come from all sources increased by
£19,677:
Year Exes.,
Ended Ex- p.c. of
June, Trusts. Income. penses. Income
1936 ..£49,843,142 £150,994 £125,983 884'
1939 . . 57,144,759 178,385 152,299 Ss'.S
1943 .. 61,594,366 173,749 150,769 86.7
1944 . . 62,803,975 177,749 154,614 86.9
1945 .. 64,698,395 180,039 156,806 87.9
1946 .. 66,299,103 206,226 178,195 86 4
1947 .. 66,667,159 238,479 211,634 88.7
1948 .. 67,748,618 248,888 222,624 89.5
1949 .. 68,326,006 262,817 236,837 90.1
1950 . . 70,636,805 282,494 257,370 91.1
But exes, (up £20,533) won the race by
£856, due mainly to wage-lifts. Including
a net addition of £3056 (£123 in the pre-
vious year) to the corpus commission re-
serve, which is the unearned portion of
corpus commissions (now £147,651), the
year’s net result was £2057 stronger at
£28,180. That was equal to 14.1 p.c, on
capital as against 13, 13.6, 13.9, 14.5 and
12.1 p.c. back to 1945. On shareholders’
funds the year’s profit was only 5,5 p.c.
When the books closed the capital, to-
gether with reserves and £66,414 coming
to outsiders, was represented by freeholds,
etc., £114,322, Government securities
£236,784, mortgages £105,394, book debts
£3199 and cash and deposits £126,249.
The co.’s £lO shares paid to £2 each—
£s of the remaining £8 is callable only
in the event of liquidation—are priced at
£5 15s. (£5 6s. a year ago) in the market,
giving a return of 4.2 p.c. on a p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is £5 os. lid., and there is a large
inner reserve in the freehold item.
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re— Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1940.. 9,255 5 p.c. = 8,281 974 26,092
1941.. 11,567 6 „ „ 9,937 1,630 27,722
1942.. 11,087 6 „ „ 9.937 1,150 28,872
1943.. 10,716 5 „ „ 8,281 2,435 31,307
1944.. 9,983 5 „ „ 8,281 1,702 33,009
1945.. 14,585 7 „ „ 11,593 2,992 36,001
1946.. 21,296 9 „ „ 14,907 6,389 42,390
Profit, sale of property, £10,397 .. 52,787
1947.. 23,968 10 p.c. = 16,563 7,405 60,192
Prom tax reserve, £20,000 .. 80,192
1948.. 25,756 11 p.c. = 18,219 7,537 87,729
1949.. 25,169 11 „ „ 18,219 6,950 94,679
1950.. 26,404 11 „ „ 18,219 8,185 102,864
*.After deducting goodwill, £22,110.
At the close of accounts in 1949 there
were indications that this co.’s turn-
over had passed its post-war peak, and
the Communist-inspired coal strike slowed
down takings during the first seven weeks
of the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts. But fresh inflationary pres-
sures soon showed up, and spending be-
came more buoyant as the year advanced.
So, as the board puts it, “despite difficult
circumstances, it was possible to obtain
sufficient additional turnover to offset the
ever-increasing cost of conducting the
business.” f
The co. specialises in p wide range or
sporting-goods, and also does a large
business in tobacco, radios, haircuts and
a variety of oddments from a chain of city
shops, and has strong connections among
suburban retailers and sporting bodies.
All sections of the business appear to
have contributed to the year’s bigger
sales. The improvement in gross earn-
ings (£275,377) was £25,361. Including
an unspecified allowance for taxation an
£6093 (up £4015) for depreciation, exes.
(£248,973) took £24,126 of the increase.
That left the net result £1235 stronger
£26,404, and only twice (in 1920 anu
1921) since the co. was formed 40 yep
ago has better than that been shown, ine
£26.404 was equal to 15.9 p.c. on capita
as against 15.1, 15.5, 14 4, 12.8 and 8.8
p.c. back to 1945. The 11 p-C- div.,.
rate the co. has ever paid, was repe
for the third year in succession, making
the average distribution over the
years 7.8 p.c., compared with an ay rag
of 4.1 p.c. for the 10 P[ ecedm f d |Lve
years, which included slump, agg
competition and price-cutting. ,
During the year the co. bough here
hold property at Bondi Junction,
it set up a new branch store. Q t 0
is reflected in the addition of £28,/
freeholds:— 1950 .
1947. 1948 - „ i«« 000 £166,00°
Paid capital.. £166,000 £1«6,000 £166,00 *- 3
Mortgage .. 83,333 83,333 83,333
~ 130,411 04,060 .5,50. •«;
Tax reserve .. 63,370 31,186 ’ 11,594
Final div. .. 9,948 H,894 U.BW 5
Freeholds .. 164.045 164,045
Book debts .. 67,318 66,352 78,221
Cash, etc. .. 191,396 ia S tOC^
The sharp growth of £4 !;; 19 “ ly posi-
was due mainly to the easier supPW tQ
tion in sporting-goods, and p


DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street* Melbourne, C.l,
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Elite, Limited (incirporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
_ filter
Cylinder
gd
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY.. UMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Hoad.
Camperdown, Sydney, N.B.W.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JAMES JOHN BOURKE late of
Springfield Gosford.—TAKE NOTICE that
HILDA HENRIETTA BOURKE has filed
Petition for Divorce No. 2224 of 1950 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an - appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the Eighth day of November 1950
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from ALLAN ERNEST CUPIT,
Solicitor, of 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO COLIN FRANCIS AOKLAND also
known as FRANK RYAN formerly of
Merewether.—TAKE NOTICE that BETTY
MAY AOKLAND has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2210 of 1950 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 20th day of
November 1950 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
WALLER, FRY & FAULKNER, Solicitors,
456 High Street, West Maitland, or their
Agents, MESSRS. BRAYE & MALOOM-
SON, Solicitors, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
m
w...
V
4 0
* HE ST EPS
s,ow mo*
When steps seem a little
steeper, the days a little longer, the bustle of modern life
more irksome, it’s time to heed nature’s warning signals.
After 40, most men and women find their system requires
extra care . . . and thousands have found the help they
need in Wolfe’s Schnapps. Known and proved for genera-
tions, Wolfe’s Schnapps is the purest of spirits, a safe
stimulant and diuretic, and possesses medicinal properties
found in no other spirit. With ice-cold water, soft drinks,
lemon or cordial, it is a pleasant drink and a tonic with
lasting beneficial effects. Some also prefer
Wolfe’s Schnapps hot with lemon at bedtime.
Available in large, half and quarter-size
bottles. Start the “small bottle test”
. . . to-day!
WOLFE'S
<ZThvniatic
SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
m
om
&
u.
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST INSURANCE BROKERS
....INSURANCES EFFECTED AT LLOYD’S
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
263 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. BW 2131
And aU other States *4
ELS. 28.4
Would you invest £lOO or so ...
on the security of
a £31,000,000 Public Utility?
Investments in the current SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL LOAN are secured upon ALL the
income of Sydney’s £31,000,000 Electricity Undertaking, and the rate of interest offered f£3/5/-
per cent, per annum! is appreciably higher than that offered by any bank.
Make your savings earn more money for you
Every six months, you will be paid interest at the rate of £3/5/- a year for every hundred you invest,
and, at the same time, will enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that your money is safe as a bank’ . . .
and readily accessible. If, for any reason or at any time, you needed ready money you would find it
an easy matter to sell your securities.
YOU CAN INVEST AS LITTLE AS £5O
You can. invest £5O or in multiples of £5O.
From any office of the Commonwealth Bank
or the Sydney County Council, or from any
member of a recognised Stock Exchange you
can secure a prospectus and an application
form. From the moment your application is
lodged, the interest will start to build up. But
remember this:— l
YOU HAVE. AT THE VERY LATEST.
ONLY UNTIL SEPTEMBER 16 TO
MAKE YOUR APPLICATION
The loan could close before September 16, so
you will be wise to make immediate application.
VI
'm
The new Pyrmont Power Station.
The Sydney County Council £1.000.000 Loan has been underwritten by J. B. Were & Son. Members of The Stock
Exchange of Melbourne.
rising prices, which, together
with brisker trading, added
£16,735 to book debts. To meet
the year’s outlay the co. leant
upon sundry creditors for an
extra £38,063 and drew upon
cash, etc., for £53,400. The
more - or - less liquid surplus
(£61,947) was £27,322 less than
at the previous balance, due to
a net addition of £35,506 to
fixed assets.
Though the position in respect
of tobacco promises to become
tighter, the outlook generally
favors a buoyant turnover for
the current term. The incessant
pressure of rising costs will be
the greatest problem. There is
nothing at the moment to sug-
gest that the 11 p.c. div. is in
any immediate danger. The
market, however, is mindful of
the effects of keen competition
and price-cutting upon the co.’s
earnings in less prosperous
periods, and prices the f.-p.
pound shares as 375. 6d. (335. a
year ago), giving an immediate
return of 5.8 p.c. so long as the
11 p.c. distribution continues.
Net tangible cover is 325. 3d.
per pound of paid capital.
Kampong Lanjut Tin
This ohe of the Anglo-
Oriental group has two proper-
ties in the Perak district
(Malaya) and two dredges,
which gave a satisfactory
account of themselves pre-war.
The Japs left both machines
submerged and partly dis-
mantled. They were on the
original Kampong Lanjut area,
now uneconomical for further
development. No. 2is still on a
care - and - maintenance basis,
pending transfer to a suitable
area, for which negotiations are
proceeding. No. 1, reconstruc-
tion of which is almost com-
plete, has been transferred to the
new Wardieburn area, about five
miles n.-e. of Kuala Lumpur,
where an estimated 36,000,000
c.y., bored to average about
0.61 b., awaits treatment. It is a
200,000-c.y.-a-month machine,
which has been converted to
electric drive and equipped with
special apparatus, for handling
tin-bearing clays.
For the year to March 31,
1950, tributes, etc., enabled a
a profit of £10,413 to be shown.
To complete removal and recon-
struction of No. 1 dredge the
Industrial Rehabilitation Finance
Board advanced the co. £204,167
at 3 p.c., redeemable by 30 half-
yearly instalments, first of which
was paid last month. Another
loan of £28,179 at 3 p.c. from
the Malayan Government is re-
deemable by 24 half-yearly in-
stalments commencing in De-
cember next. Settlement of the
co.’s war-damage claims (amount
unstated), which is expected at
an early date, should sul>
stantially offset these loans. The
Finance Board has also indi-
cated that it will further assist
the co. in reconstructing No.
2 dredge and in its transfer to
a new area.
When the books closed cash,
debtors’ balances, etc., totalled
£170,488, and spares and stores
stood at £17,203, Rehabilitation
loans amounted to £232,346, and
there was £8333 coming to
sundry creditors.
The intriguing factor for in-
vestors in Malayan tin ventures
at the moment is the big leap
in the price of the metal which
followed the outbreak of the
Korean affair. The London spot
price, monthly average for
which was within the £S6OO-
- bracket for the first five
months of 1950, had shot up to
£5724.8 on July 14, reached
£5814.5 on August 22 and
dropped to £5782.5 on August
30.
The market factors operating
at the moment are many and
complex, and it is difficult to.
say how far the rise in price has
been determined by some form
of rational calculation and how
far it is due simply to psycho-
logical reactions. The statistical
position of tin suggested no rea-
son for anticipating any such
strength in price as has been
seen. Apart from American
stockpiling and purchases on
Russian account, appearances
are that buyers are concerned
not so much about satisfaction
of their immediate requirements
as about the question of more-
distant supplies. Even if the
Korean incident should be
quickly resolved and the inter-
national situation settle down,
there is no certainty that the
Communist trouble in Malaya,
and elsewhere, will not flare-up
again and possibly interrupt sup-
plies from tin-producing centres.
Another factor that cannot be
overlooked is the possibility of
increased taxation to meet ex-
penditure occasioned by the pre-
sent and possible future emerg-
ency. Should the situation
everywhere settle down and tin-
production continue at or
around its present level, a very
heavy drop in the price of the
metal can be expected.
The market therefore prices
this co.’s f.-p, pound shares at
18s. 6d. as against 20s. 6d. at the
beginning of 1950.
For the 12 months of 1949
Great Boulder Prop., whose
leases lie between Boulder Per-
severance and Lake View and
Star at Kalgoorlie (W.A.),
treated 365,968 tons (down 2225
tons) for 83,133 oz. fine gold
(down 298 oz.), an average of
4.54dwt. The profit was £128,466
(up £86,870), equal to 64.2 p.c.
on capital as against 20.8 p.c.
for the previous year, and the
div. was lifted from 3fd. to Is.
per 2s. stock unit, or from 15.6
p.c. to 50 p.c. The rise in
the price of gold was mainly
responsible for the improved
financial result. Still, it is
■ a creditable performance con-
sidering the rise in costs and
damage .to the Edwards shaft
caused by the 3200 ft. fall of an
. empty skip before the term was
halfway through. Ore reserves
at Dec. 31 last were estimated at
2,609,713 tons averaging
s.ldwt., an increase of 259,678
tons and a decrease of o.4dwt.
respectively compared with the
position a year earlier. There
have been some encouraging de-
velopments on the 3100 ft. level
in the Edwards. Headquarters
were transferred from London
to Melbourne early in 1949. The
scrip, which had dropped to 6s.
sd. in 1949, recently sold for
11s. 7d.


See Singapore
WITHOUT COST..
K 42
A
on the “Sterling” Route to London
EXPENSE-FREE TOURS OF THREE FAMOUS CITIES
Colourful, cosmopolitan crossroads of the East,
and Gateway to the Orient, Singapore, with its
teeming millions, its exotic charm and wealth of
variety is a highlight on your 4-day flight to
London. See it, as our guest, on a free conducted
tour. Or stop-over here —or anywhere on the
route —at no extra fare.
Fly by luxurious air-conditioned Constellation.
Enjoy first-class food, superlatively good service.
Choose from two routes —via Calcutta, or via
Colombo and Bombay on the only Constellation
service to London.
See Rome and Cairo, too,
on freo conducted tours.
For trip planning help,
full details of fares,
timetables, etc., consult
your travel agent.
REDUCED FARES
To Singapore and Rome
FOR "OFF-SEASON" ROUND TRIPS
Ask your travel agent for full details of the
recently announced special reduced fares for
off-season return travel to Singapore and
Rome. These concessions operate for a
limited period only—but they save you
£33/10/0 on a return trip to Singapore or
£145/15/0 on a trip to Rome and back.
A t A and B O A C
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS In parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
Your WILL is
first and foremost
a business matter
Your Will is probably the
most important document that
you will ever sign. Failure to
treat it as a business matter of
the highest importance may prove
costly to your family.
The best procedure is to
discuss your problems, in con-
fidence, with Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited. The Company
has more than 63 years experience
in Estate administration and is
well qualified to guide you in
your planning.
Wy
m m.
The next step is to have your Will properly drawn by
a Solicitor. This will involve the appointment of an
Executor and Trustee. If you appoint Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited as sole Executor —or jointly with a
relative or friend you will be following the lead of many
of our wisest and most successful citizens.
The services Perpetual Trustee Company Limited has
to offer, and the charges, are set out in the Company’s
helpful and informative booklet <( Your Executor and
Trustee”. *Phone B 0377 or write for a copy to-day.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
AGENT UNDER POWER
OF ATTORNEY FOR •
ABSENTEES AND OTHERS,
ADMINISTRATOR. Etc.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £70,000,000
Directors: Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. *
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAOGA WAQOA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Wool Sky-high
The opening of the 1950-51
wool-selling season in Australia
has been a startling affair, with
wool prices up 50 p.c. If such
an increase is maintained
throughout the season it will
mean an average price for the
clip of over 90d. and a wool
cheque of over £4OO million,
compared with £286.6 million
last season.
Greasy wool averaging 90d. is
indeed something to ponder
over. It would represent about
10 times the pre-war price. So
far no other basic commodity—
metal, fibre or grain—has soared
to such an extent.
One reason for the soaring
price of wool has been a sud-
den militarily strategic demand
superimposed upon a statistical
position in which current con-
sumption exceeds current pro-
duction. In 1949-50 it is esti-
mated that consumption of wool
exceeded production by about
16 p.c. Indications are that in
1950-51 stockpiling will add to
an accelerated consumption,
while little or no increase is ex-
pected in world production,
though the Australian clip may
be slightly greater.
Alongside the tenfold increase
in wool prices, the price of gold
in Australia is about twice what
it was in 1939. And wheat over-
seas is perhaps four or five
times its pre-war price.
Wool prices in 1939 were
very likely too low. But the
disproportionate increase in the
price since is a matter for con-
cern as well as, perhaps, rejoic-
ing in some quarters.
Whilst taking what the eco-
nomic gods choose to give us
for the moment, we should be
wary of these high wool prices.
Australian Merino wool is a
splendid product, and it is grati-
fying to note its appreciation,
but the effect of high prices on
the whole Australian economy
will be great, and inequalities,
particularly among land indus-
tries, businesses and investors,
will be increased.
As well as tending to inflate
the value of pastoral properties,
the higher wool prices will in-
crease living costs through wool-
len-clothing and meat prices,
and so add to the general in-
flationary spiral. Spending pres-
sure will expand.
On the other hand, since 80
p.c. or more of the wool clip is
exported, our external income
will be increased very consider-
ably, enabling us to buy more
capital goods—as well as con-
sumer goods from overseas
countries.
Of this increased overseas in-
come we may expect to find the
dollar portion expanding,
especially if the United States,
as a military measure, begins
buying heavily. United States
wool-production is falling.
Dollar income will be of
special value to Australia in
view of the fact that we need
many kinds of industrial equip-
ment most readily and cheaply
obtained in the United States.
An adequate supply of industrial
equipment, to the extent that it
assists in raising general out-
put per worker per hour, can be
employed as a weapon against
inflation.
If high wool prices continue
they will undoubtedly add to the
taxation potential of the Com-
monwealth Treasury. A very
large sum will go directly to the
Treasury from any increase in
pastoralists’ incomes, and the
indirect revenue will be very
considerable.
Continuance of ruling rates
for the staple will also revive the
question of revaluing the Aus-
tralian pound. But unless other
exports receive some increase in
their prices the incidence of re-
valuation will be very unequal.
The time to revalue was when
Britain devalued nearly a year
ago, or within a few months of
that decision. With each passing
month the problems associated
with up-valuation of our money
increase. However, the urgency
of the situation may call for
“ Nine-thirty-three, Williams —I suppose the alarm
didn't go off again?”
corrective measures, however
long delayed.
Already higher wool prices
have strengthened the hands of
those in favor of a wool-stabi-
lisation scheme based on a levy
on producers to provide a fund,
during times when prices are
high, to help growers when
prices suffer a setback. The
chief objection to such a scheme
is the possibility of permanent
Government control resulting
and the possible loss of identity
of the contributions to the fund.
The Federal Budget
Whatever the political prob-
lems of the coming Federal
Parliamentary session (and they
will be many, especially in the
Senate), the economic problems
must be faced squarely. And in
facing those problems the Trea-
surer will have to acknowledge
that he is concerned not merely
with money matters. He is con-
cerned, in a national Budget of
the size he will be forced to
contemplate, more funda-
mentally with manpower and
materials. Whilst monetary
arrangements may appear to
satisfy the national requirements
for the moment, the ultimate re-
sults in terms of national per-
formance and real public and
social service, as well as defence,
are other matters entirely.
Though the national income
for 1950-51 appears certain to
leave all other comparative
figures far behind, partly be-
cause of much higher wool
prices, and the taxation potential
should be correspondingly
bigger, it must be remembered
that this income is expressed in
terms of depreciating Australian
paper-money. Where the money
is to be spent on Australian
production and services this de-
preciation will be a defeating
factor if it is the intention of
the Government to get more
public service, more social ser-
vices and more defence effort
from an enlarged Budget. But
where part of our Government
spending is directed overseas,
subject to greater inflation in
other countries, the increased
wool cheque should make that
part of our budgeting easier to
carry out.
Treasurer Fadden will be
confronted with estimates of
what various departmental and
service heads consider necessary
to cover their activities for the
current year. There will be the
estimates, for instance, covering
the post-office’s programme for
the year; estimates for pensions,
child-endowment, hospital and
medical benefits, etc.; estimates
for defence; estimates for civil
works. And there will be esti-
mates for numerous “adminis-
trative” departments.
To do the job perfectly Mr.
Fadden would need to know
exactly what expenditure was
really necessary, what man-
power was needed to do the job,
what materials were required,
and then proceed to find the
money, by means of taxation
and loans, to pay for all these
things, and arrange for the
diversion of the necessary
materials and manpower.
But perfection is unknown in
this sort of thing. Mr. Fadden
can only be expected to do his
best. Still, in doing his best he
should never forget how valu-
able manpower is in this coun-
try, and that it is a tragedy to
see it wasted by either Govern-
ment or private enterprise. He
will be wise, therefore, to budget
in terms of manpower (and
essential materials) as well as
money. Whatever the Govern-
ment’s programme for the com-
ing year, he should seek the co-
operation of all departments in
keeping unessential Government
employment down to a mini-
mum.
A major problem arises, also.
in respect of “social-security”
provisions. These are paid for
in taxation contributed by pre-
sent earners, and a large pro-
portion of the benefits go to
non-earners. Most old-age pen-
sioners, for instance, currently
contribute none of their own
pension.
Not only do many recipients
of “social-security” benefits not
make any current monetary con-
tribution towards their income;
very often they are
ducers, and they take out of the
pool of production of goods and
services without putting any-
thing in it. It is singularly un-
fortunate for Mr. Fadden that
he faces a year in which both
defence spending and increased
“social - security” commitments
loom large, since defence ex-
penditure is, in the economic
sense, waste, and it adds to the
burden imposed by the non-
productive “social - security”
beneficiaries.
Also, we have the 40-hour
week. This has aggravated the
shortage in the material where-
withal to meet our Budget com-
mitments. The output of each
man per hour has fallen since
the war, and the number of
hours worked have also fallen.
Therefore the material demands
made by defence, by “social
security” and by higher-living-
standard aspirations of the
people generally have to come
out of a smaller pool of per-
capita production.
Let there be no mistake about
it : If enlarged defence commit-
ments have to be met this year
other parts of our economy are
bound to feel the pinch in terms
of manpower and materials, even
if the impact on the pocket is
not so obvious. That is unless
there is a maximum diversion
of non-essential civil servants to
productive jobs, and production
generally, starting with coal, is
greatly increased. It would hurt
no one if production were very
much accelerated.


vm
IF YOU KNEW
THE FUTURE
• • . . yon could act with cer-
tainty to secure yoar depend-
ants security. However, as
the future is obscure to us all,
your wisest action is to assure
famil y’s security with
The Equitable”. This com-
pany is fully experienced in
these matters to expertly advise
you. ACT NOW I write,
phone, or call.
k R. V. PERKINS, General Manager A
aSi
fgd
jjmm . ■, ■■■■ ■
ANOEL PLACE - SYDNEY
™ COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
fg
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE
POPULAR PEN
with the
marvellous nib
Conwoy Stewart fir Co. Ltd w
London.
S, W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
It’s a pleasure to bank
at the 66 Wales"
1
There is no need for
banking business to be dull
or uninteresting. The friendly managers and
staffs of Bank of New South Wales branches
try to make their customers feel at home.
For the best in banking service, consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
(
THE PEOPLE'S BANK SINCE ISIZ
(incorporated in new sooth walks with limited liabilitt)'
■755135
INSURANCE “for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £11,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W, Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 line.). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
ito/deJP/
For over 100 years every drop
of Dewar’s Whisky has been
distilled and blended in Scot-
land, by acknowledged Mas-
ters of the Art.
Dewar’s famous “White
Label” Scotch Whisky never
varies ... its distinctive char-
acter, mellow flavour and rich,
heart-warming qualities have
made it world renowned.
DEWAR'S
“mite kid”
Sfamxnu SCOTCH QVhiiku
SO Gold
art
Prize Medal*
SO Gala
Prize Medal#
CAIRO
I
. “White Label
A Fine Scotch WhiskV
OF RARE AGE.
Dewar & Sons L'
DISTILLERS
re scotlanp
Hon*f, H ajmarktt. S.VO.
NET CONTENTS TPINT. eFL.OZS. t(!nn jjl9
"“AWHniD WHOLLY DISTIUiB.IIMUREO AND BUNDED W 55
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Public opinion, whether re-
flected in the Press or in daily
conversation, is deeply con-
cerned at Mr. Attlee’s “every-
thing-as-usual” attitude. Most
leading articles tend to conflict,
for no two surmises are the
same, yet it is generally agreed
that the Prime Minister has
made a bad tactical error in his
seeming indifference, or intransi-
gence, to pressure. The impres-
sion that emerges, rightly or
wrongly, is not the alert watch-
dog, immediate to react to im-
minent danger, but rather the
common yet highly individual
cat, which, as everyone knows,
will go its own way in the end
no matter how urgent the en-
treaty or subtle the coaxing.
The nation is impatient to
know where it stands. At pre-
sent (that is, before Mr,
Churchill’s broadcast) it is being
kept in unhealthy suspense—a
confused state of mind that pro-
vokes the idea that Mr. Attlee
may have something up his
sleeve. This conjecture is im-
mediately denied by the solid
realisation that he would need
to possess supernatural powers
to alter the world situation
dramatically to England’s favor
between now and mid-Septem-
ber, when Parliament is to meet.
The next conclusion is that he
may feel that no worth-while
information can be given until
industrial shadow-plans have
been worked out and decisions
have been taken upon defence
expenditure.
Suggestions have been made
that Mr. Attlee’s reasons are
political, that he must have time
to compose the strong opposi-
tion to conscription and other
energetic defence measures
that bristles among a powerful
section of the Labor party. In
passing, it is noticeable that a
kind of left-handed pacifism is
evident in the speeches and
writings of the far-Lefters. This
takes the form of detaching the
bad men of the Kremlin from
the rest of the “progressives”;
and it also seeks a declaration,
in advance, that the British
Government will not interfere
in Formosa or China if the
fighting spreads, using the recog-
nition by Great Britain of the
Chinese Government as a lever
for its argument.
“Is there a crisis or isn’t
there?” is a fair question that
hasn’t yet been squarely
answered. Why did Mr, Attlee
bring the date for the reassembly
of Parliament forward from
October 17 to September 12?
Does he admit a
Meanwhile, anxiety spreads
when it needs to be allayed ; and
thinking is troubled when it
should be clear,
“If There’s a War”
This soberly challenging
phrase is heard a good deal
nowadays, quietly being whis-
pered in conversation, and most
people tend to take the grimmer
view. They are sceptical of the
opinion, still being expressed in
some responsible quarters, that
a day might come when Stalin
will call a halt, quietly buckle
down his iron curtains and stay
put. The analogy with Hitler is
too patent, altogether too clear.
It isn’t a habit of aggressors
to go so far and no further. The
single ray of hope, palely shin-
ing through the doubts, is that
Stalin might have to stop be-
cause he realises the odds are
overwhelmingly against him.
Few people would dare to feel
confident of the nearness of that
day. It is plain enough to most
Britons that, at present, nothing
very considerable stands be-
tween themselves and Soviet
Russia. They understand —and
with genuine sympathy—that
France is no longer a bulwark
against invading armies. The
disproportionate strain of two
wars. Hitler’s frightful but effec-
tive demoralisation of her man-
power, the potent influence of
Communists in her industry and
her rapidly-changing, weak Gov-
ernments have taken the heart
out of France as a military
Power.
On these assumptions—and
unfortunately they have a com-
pelling validity—the brunt of
unified defence must fall upon
the British Commonwealth and
the United States. At least
that’s what most of Britain’s
responsible citizens are thinking.
They, too, are sick of war, but
the traditional sense of unity, if
slightly jaded, has happily
suffered no chronic impairment.
War or no war, such de-
mands as will need to be made
upon them must extend a long
way beyond a few battalions to
Korea or slight inconveniences
in living standards or another
six months on the term of con-
scription. And they are wait-
ing, a little sad and anxious, but
with patient courage, to know
what these demands will be.
Reversion to Types
Sir Laurence Olivier’s latest
venture in management, “Cap-
tain Carvallo” (St. James’s
Theatre), bears the sub-title “A
Traditional Comedy.” The roots
of these amusing variations on
a picaresque theme go very deep
and burrow a good way further
than such modern theatrical in-
ventions as gas-jets and grease-
paint. The first act suggests
“Arms and the Man,” the dia-
logue at times recalls Ashley
Dukes, and the overall atmos-
phere seems to belong to the
Comedie Humaine of Moliere.
Yet these similarities may well
be no more than accidental.
Dennis Cannan, the young
author of the play, appears to
have gone right back to the
commedia dell’arte for his
characters, brought them back to
life and given them the infectious
quality of his imagination. He
presents a soldier and his bat-
man, both given to army duties
and tired, deliberate philander-
ing, in about equal proportions
and to the exclusion of every-
thing else ; a virtuous good wife
and her none-too-virtuous maid ;
a timorous cuckold of comic
absurdity; and a blundering
pedant with a wandering mind.
They were once, perhaps, Capi-
tano, Harlequin, Columbine,
Brighella, Pantaloon and the
Doctor of Bologna. <lt matters
not. They seem fresh as dew.
Set in disputed territory in
“the last summer of a long
war,” the play deals with the
impact of the two soldiers upon
the inhabitants of a farmhouse,
who, merely because they are
looking to the future, have be-
come last - minute partisans.
They have orders to kill the
soldiers, but recoil from the
deed, partly from squeamishness
and partly because they have a
grudging liking for them. As a
face-saving compromise they
decide to blow up the barn
where the men sleep, after first
making sure that they are else-
where. The conspiracy to en-
tice the soldiers away from their
billet and the ensuing complica-
tions form the pivot of the play,
leading to situations of ironic
comedy and, sometimes, to broad
farce,
Mr. Cannan is himself an
actor, and has proscribed for
players, not literary stylists. At
the same time this is not the
accepted “actor’s play” all
glossy veneer and secondhand
ideas. If his moods and ideas
often lead him into tangled by-
ways, his wit is always lively
and well pointed and his situa-
tions never seem stereotyped.
His engaging improvisation ad-
mits of no facile definition and
doesn’t need one: from first to
last it is an original tonic.
Tanya Moseiwitsch’s decor
arrests and then soothes the eye.
Diana Wynyard’s bewildered
matron is a study in undertones,
and James Donald’s cavalier, if
hardly a Bayard, is an astonish-
ingly commanding bourgeois.
Most of the fun is precisely and
delicately provided by Richard
Goolden and Peter Finch, whose
faltering professor will surely
account for many second visits.


Women's letters
From Melbourne
Highlight of the week’s doings was the
reception given by the Lord Mayor, Cr.
J. S. Disney, and his wife to the Prime
Minister and Mrs. Menzies, The P.M.
was in his best oratorical form, with the
light touch interspersed with his sober
reflections. Later, in a word to this
Letter, he expressed his regret at the
death of The Bulletin’s “T. the R.,”
whose verse he greatly admired. A
sheaf of daffodils, hyacinths and prim-
roses was presented to Mrs. Menzies, who
wore a Rothsay-blue suit and a tiny
candy-pink straw hat finished with a bow
of candy-striped taffeta ribbon. Mrs.
Disney’s tailored black suit had for com-
pany a, snappy little cap of black velvet
trimmed with a pearl-grey bird-mount.
Mrs. Les Menzies topped her black frock
with a silver-fox cape and a feather-
trimmed hat. The P.M.’s sister Isobel
(Mrs. Green) added a matching hat to
her rich saxe-blue coat. Her daughter,
Mrs. Ron McGregor, was in a burgundy-
and-blue-check suit and a burgundy felt
hat finished with bobbles in red, blue and
beige.
The U.S. Consul-General, S. J.
Fletcher, with his wife, was there to hear
about the trip, and later he presented Mr.
Menzies with pictures of his New York
welcome. A soft-lime felt hat flying
black ospreys and a black suit were Mrs.
Fletcher’s choice. Mrs. Alec Hunter’s
soft-rose wool frock was worn under a
dyed-ermine coat; her brown felt beret
was finished with green and black cocq
feathers. Mrs. Bernard Evans contrasted
her black ensemble with a softly-swathed
pink felt hat. Mrs. Norman Robinson’s
beige grosgrain hat was worn with an ink-
blue tweed suit and hip-length dyed-
ermine jacket.
For many years the Loreto Old Girls’
Association has held, at Mandeville Hall,
its annual bridge-party, the proceeds
of which always go to help the Loreto
Free Kindergarten in South Melbourne.
This year, however, the party will be in
the Myer Grill-room on Tuesday, Sep-
tember 12, at 2.45 p.m. The committee
has worked energetically to stock a fancy-
goods stall which has been convened by
Mesdames Peppard and Calanchini, and
also a cake-stall. Table reservations are
in the hands of Mrs. L. Cantwell,
8J3994, and Mrs. F. Connaughton,
8J3987.
To defray expenses of the Derby Eve
Ball, the profits of which go to the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children, Mrs. lan Miller has lent her
home for two dress shows to be held on
September 22. Mannequins will wear
models designed by Mrs, Harold Holt
and Mrs. Roy Grounds, and the spring
hats will be from the salon of Sydney
milliner Henriette LaMotte. The after-
noon show from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. is to
cost 12s. 6d. a ticket, and the late-
afternoon one from 6 p.m. to 8.30 p.m.
will be 255. each. Tickets may be
obtained from Mrs. Tom Graham
(8J1396), Mrs. Peter Sawyer (Win. 7053)
and Mrs, Julian Barrett (U 2859).
Creating great interest is the engage-
ment of Dorothea Joan, only daughter of
John Cain, M.L.A., former Premier, and
Mrs, Cain, of Northcote, to Norman
Robert, only son of Mr. and Mrs. Clive
Hunt, of Elwood. Engagement was cele-
brated with a family dinner-party given
by Mr. and Mrs. Cain at the Hotel Aus-
tralia. For some time Joan was a member
of Mrs. Wallace Mitchell’s Younger Set
and is a very busy girl. She has her own
millinery salon in the city, and later in the
month* will provide the hats for a
mannequin parade at Menzies’ in aid of
the Royal Australian Naval Memorial
Chapel appeal.
There was a time when Melbourne’s
National Art Gallery was a haunt of the
idle or a shelter on a wet Sunday after-
noon. When Daryl Lindsay became
director he changed all that, and now,
with art lectures, conducted tours among
the furniture, glassware and clothing of
past eras, the gallery is one of the most
visited centres in the cultural life of the
city. Now the National Gallery Society
of Victoria, in conjunction with the
Ballet Guild, has decided to reproduce
“The Shepherd,” by John Sell Cotman, as
a special Christmas-card for members.
Cotman was eminent in Victorian
England and perhaps the best of “the
Norwich School.” “The Shepherd,” one
of his best, is to be reproduced in full
color on a four-sheet folder. It is hoped
the cards, will be ready on November. 1,
in time for the English mail. The Stawell
Gallery will be the setting for a pro-
gramme of ballet, presented by Laurel
Martyn and the Ballet Guild, on Septem-
ber 13. Peter Andry is musical director
and Allan McCulloch will be responsible
for the decor. “Carnaval,” extracts from
Conte’s “Heraldiques” and “Choreo-
mania” are to b'e presented.
Margot Hain, pictured here, is the elder
daughter of Mrs. Gladys Hain, of
Chevron, Melbourne, and the late Rex
Hain. Educated at Firbank and Star of
the Sea Convent, Margot went on to 1 the
University and did French and German
in the Modern School. During the later
years of the war she worked in the Navy
Office and then decided) on a nursing
career. She has completed her training
at the Alfred Hospital and is now on the
nursing staff of St. Benedict’s. She wants
to travel, but at the moment is content to
gain her impressions of other lands from
letters irom sister Mary, whose latest
came from Turkey.
Mrs. J. S. Disney is to fill the role of
Lady Mayoress for another year, and
women working for charitable causes are
delighted. Mrs. Disney brought charm
and dignity to the office of Lady Mayor-
ess, and her Dresden-china fragility hides
a capacity for hard work. In the past
two years she has sponsored many
charities, lent her lovely reception-rooms
for meetings and by her own efforts
raised goodly sums. Before she became
Lady Mayoress her work for charity was
just as great, but she shunned publicity
and it went almost unnoticed. With the
demands of public life much of her work
has naturally been discarded. Mrs.
Disney loves her home and her garden
and is a noted hostess. Her quiet elegance
makes her almost a fashion-leader, though
she would deny it. And, although this is
essentially a woman’s page, the charm of
the Lord Mayor is worth! noting. He
shares with his wife the capacity for hard
work and is always ready to launch and
make successful appeals for good causes.
The Country Children’s Holiday Camp at
Portsea, begun by his predecessor, the
late Sir Raymond Connelly, flourishes
under his care. There was no opposition
to his election as Lord Mayor for a third
term.
A decorative bevy of young girls made
their debut at the dance given by their
parents at Grosvenor, Toorak. Having
shared their schooldays at St, Michael’s,
the five girls decided to also share their
debut. Though each wore all white with
a posy of deep-red roses, the material
differed: Patripia Ellis was in em-
broidered Swiss organdie, Jacqueline
Faulkner in faille, Gwen Hattam in figured
taffeta, Anne Joliffe in broderie Anglaise,
and Eva Newell in silk cloque. Mrs.
Harold Ellis’s bouffant gown was of
aqua-blue satin, Mrs. C. N. Joliffe’s of
petunia taffe'ta. Mrs. L. Faulkner’s satin-
striped tissue was in pastel-blue, and Mrs.
H. K. Hattam and Mrs, F. V. Newell
were in black. Among the young dancers
were Judy Sweeney, whose turquoise-blue
tulle gown carried a spray of "gardenias;
Judith McFarlane, in cream sunray-
pleated moire ; Rosemary Wagge, Wear-
ing petunia-shot taffetas; and Nan
Jacques, her ice-blue tulle mounted on
blue taffeta.
The appeal for £25,000 for the Vera
Scantlebury Brown Memorial has closed.
At a party she gave at the Lyceum Club
to mepibers of the various committees of
the appeal Lady Herring announced that
£lB,OOO had been raised. She also dis-
closed that the State Government had
shown great interest in the post-graduate
scholarships financed by the Memorial
trust. Dr. Margaret Mackie, holder ot
the second V-S.B.M. scholarship, Mrs.
R T, A. McDonald, Mrs. Aubrey
Gibson, Mrs. R. B. Decker, Mrs. Oliver
Nilsen and Miss K. Syme were among
the guests.
The engagement of Moira, eldest
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Percy Shelton,
of Elsternwick, to John, younger son of
Mrs. James Dynon, of South Yarra, and
the late Alderman J. Dynon, has been
announced. The wedding will take place
on December 2 at Xavier College Chapel.
Both are uni. graduates ; Moira took out
her science degree at Melbourne. John
did law at Melbourne and Oxford. Moira
is wearing three lovely diamonds set in
platinum.
From Sydney
Smooth organisation of the Bankers
Ball at the Trocadero confirmed the
belief that bankers are the most efficient
of men. The 19 debs were presented to
the Governor with dispatch and decorum,
their escorts jn white-tie-and-tails look-
ing nearly as dazzling as the girls them-
selves. The Troc. seemed to be full of
big, happy families beamed at by their
prosperous-looking papas at the official
table. Elizabeth Northcott wore soft-blue
lace; Mrs. S. J. Gandon, who presented
the debs, was in black with pink roses at
the waist. Dr. Bertie Schlink and Mrs.
Schlink were there (the ball was in aid
of Royal Prince Alfred, which has Dr.
Schlink for superintendent), also Dr.
Coombs, the H. C. Masons, the C. R.
McKerihans and the M. C. Calders. The
ball was a lesson in how to make correct-
ness consistent with a good time being
had by all.
Beth Dean (first seen here as ballerina
in “Annie Get Your Gun”) is a person
very learned in ethnological dances, hav-
ing written many articles on the subject
and lectured at some of the world’s lead-
ing universities. She is said to be the
first professional dancer to adapt the
dance forms of the Australian abo.; it
is five years since she began to study
them. At her recital at Sydney Conser-
vatorium on Thursday night she danced
“Brolga,” “Melele” and “The Birth
of the Waterlily,” as well as dances
of the American Navajo tribe, the Aztecs
of Mexico, negro spirituals and a
beautiful modern expressionist dance,
“My Sister Mist,” from “The Garden of
the Prophet” by Kahlil Gibran. In this
last she chanted the words of the poem
as she danced, her strong voice as
rhythmic and expressive as her move-
ments. After giving recitals in the other
capitals Beth will begin a world tour.
Pianist Gyorgy Sandor, who gave a
series of recitals at the Town Hall last
week, pronounces his surname, approxi-
mately, “Shandor” (with a “shush,” not
a “hiss”). Gyorgy was vociferously
acclaimed by Sydney audiences, who have
taken of late to accompanying their clap-
ping with a stamping of feet, cries of
“bravo” and an occasional “more! ” This
is probably the influence of the New Aus-
tralians, and may be a good thing, pro-
vided they don’t adopt the European
habit of shushing and hissing too much.
“How to Improve the Garden Plot
Without Extra Cost” is the title of a
lecture to be given by horticulturist
G. W. Gillham at the Y.W.C.A. next
Tuesday night. With vegetable prices up
in the clouds practical women with down-
to-earth minds will see that their
husbands attend. Mr, Gillham will
illustrate his talk with color-slides of
public and private gardens from all over
Australia, so that the audience can get
some new ideas on layout and color-
schemes.
Teenagers got a chance to see what
they’d wear for summer when the
S.C.E.G.G.S. Ball , committee held its
“Teen and Twenty” parade at Prince’s.
The hats, by Madame Danielle la Gravej
were especially fascinating—all young’
cute and becoming. There were lots of
sailors (hats, not boys), and several cun-
ning little wicker-hats like flower-pots
turned upside down. The committee did
a very good job, and the parade sped
along with fewer delays than usual. The
models were all young and very pretty—
also the audience. The compere an-
nounced herself as “a S.C.E.G.G.S. old-
girl, probably the oldest in existence.” If
that’s true S.C.E.G.G.S. girls wear well.
The Opera Fair, starting tonight at
the Lower Town Hall, caters for the
cultured as well as providing fun for the
frivolous. This evening there will be a
one-act play by Shaw, tomorrow after-
noon and night concerts by top-rank
performers (Strella Wilson, Eunice
Gardiner and Alan Ferris are named to
give some idea of the standard), and a
ballet session on Friday night. At the
same time, chocolate-wheels will be spin-
ning, clairvoyants looking into the future,
puppets performing, stalls and gardens
being inspected, and all in the cause of
raising funds for the first season of opera
which is being arranged for April next
year,
David Jones started something when
they imported Joe Lewis from Dallas,
Texas, to show how they do the square-
dance in America today. On a stage
rigged out as the cleanest and prettiest
barn seen this side of heaven, the eight
young Aussies he had trained went
through the movements of the Texan
Star, the Dip and Dive, Oh Johnny, etc.,
with such gay gusto that the audience
were soon laughing, tapping feet and
wanting to dance, too. It needed only
a word from Joe and 50 boys and girls
poured on to the stage to learn some of
the simpler movements. They picked it
up very quickly, enjoying it so much that
it will be surprising if square-dance clubs
don’t spring up around Sydney without
further delay.
Square-dancing, which looks like an
Americanised version of the folk-dances
of the British Isles, has swept over
America like a cyclone. In a Texas
city less than half the size of Sydney
there are 50 clubs which meet twice a
month. The churches ‘mostly encourage
it because of the friendliness it inspires,
and because the youngsters who take it
up forget about alcohol. “The “square”
is composed of four boys and four girls.
The boys are called by numbers, and
each has to remember that the girl on his
left is his “corner lady.” The others
are his “right-hand lady,” his “opposite
lady” and his partner. He dances with
each of these according to directions from
the “caller,” which come in quickfire
time, so that the mind has to be as alert
as the feet are nimble. The girls wear
dresses with full skirts, and flat-heeled
shoes are a necessity. At the David Jones
demonstration some of the girls wore
white frilled pantalettes and ribbon-
threaded petticoats as well. If “callers”
can be trained quickly there is nothing to
stop these dances becoming the No. 1
craze in Australia, for, although one
speaks of boys and girls, they appeal to
everyone who has a spark of gaiety, how-
ever small. It should mean goodbye to
wallflowers and the shy gauche boys who
hesitate to dance with only one girl.
About 180 girls came to the Third
Younger Set Conference of the Country
Women’s Association. It was opened by
Mrs. G. L. Brooks, acting for the State
president, who made an inspiring speech
to the delegates. Tesse Thomas (Single-
ton) proposed that flowers and a message
of thanks should be sent to the State
president, Mrs. J. M. Gordon, who has
been ill. This was seconded by Nola
Kinsey (Trangie). After Elaine Chapman
(Toronto) had made her report, the dele-
gates heard an address by the Begum
Haroon, wife of the High Commissioner
for Pakistan. She congratulated tne
association on their interest in other
countries, and told of the developmen
of Pakistan over the past three years, in
the afternoon there were demonstration
of Kit activities. Fortunately, Sydney
staged somb fine weather for the conic-
ence, so that Sunday’s harbor-crui
maintained the high spirits of the de
gates to the close of the conference.
Window-shopping in Sydney this week
showed some lovely things from fla y*
especially dolls. These are quite bre
taking, their clothes being as exquisite
their faces. One was dressed a
debutante in an organdie dress and ca y
ing a bouquet, another in y ict w nst
clothes with a bonnet and muff- ~ r r
people can only “window-shop
these, as the small odes are marked six
pounds, medium ones twelve pound ,
largest being discreetly left unticKe


ttxifcc
FIRST IN 1888
No other Battery can match . . •
V*
FIRST TODAY!
Exide’s 61 Years’ Experience
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
XA9.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
Having as president, represented the
rS L for the record term of 27 years
from 1919, Digger knight Gilbert Dyett
was a moral for selection to represent it
in its most important job of giving
Edmund Herring a hand with recruiting.
Slightly-built, frosty-pated, with a mind
like a razor for cleaving through flaws in
argument and proposals, the new rep.
qualified for his League badge on Gal-
lipoli where he caught a packet at Lone
Pine.’ Invalided out, he got his grounding
for his present post as organising secre-
tary of the Victorian Recruiting Com-
mittee for the rest of the war. Leader of
the Australian delegation to an Empire
servicemen’s conference in Capetown in
1921, he went off again the following year
as R.S.L. representative to the fourth
annual convention of the American.
Legion in New Orleans. Born in Bendigo
(Vic.), educated at Marist Brothers’
College there, he rose Sir Gilbert in 1927,
and has just notched 60.
No wog is allowed to roam about the
wards or passages of Royal Melbourne
without the consent of Edgar Samuel
King, who is pathologist there. Born in
Maoriland, he left Melbourne University
with his M.B. and M.D., shifted to Eng-
land for his F.R.C.S., and pursued a
highly successful path through pathology,
collecting on the way the Jacksonian
Prize of the Royal College of Surgeons
(thrice) and the Alvarenga Prize of the
Philadelphia (U.S.) College of Surgeons.
As well, Stewart Scholar in Surgery and
Syme Prize winner at Melbourne Uni-
versity, he took his medical knowledge
into the A.I.F. and served from start to
finish of War 11, lieut.-colonel, A-A.M.C.
Now, at 51, he goes to the Chair of
Pathology at his alma mater, relieving
Professor Peter MacCallum, an Old
Digger who lists M.C. among his para-
graph of medical initials, and who, at 66,
is calling it a day end of the year
after 25 years in the pathology chair.
Back in Maoriland for the conference
of the Association of British Universities
of the Commonwealth, Sir Raymond
Priestley, principal and vice-chancellor of
Birmingham University. His first visit
was just on 40 years ago, as geologist
of the Scott Antarctic expedition which
ended in the deaths of those “gallant
gentlemen” Scott, Wilson, Oates, Bowers
and Evans. Three years earlier he had
been south with Shackleton, also as
geologist. Adjutant of a British signals
company in the Kaiser’s war, S’Raymond
won M.C. before he was pulled out to
write the signal service’s history. As
well, he’s put between covers three books
on his Antarctic adventures. In 1935-38
he was vice-chancellor of Melbourne
University.
From A. H. Chisholm:
Botanist Cyril Tenison White (B. 30/8/’5O)
was once described by an American scientist as
one of the foremost dendrologists of the world.
The authorities of Kew Gardens (Eng.), where
White had done research work, held the same
opinion—extending it to the point of regarding
him as unexcelled as an authority on tropical
botany generally. The subject of these tributes
was largely self-educated. He had much
University experience, but as a lecturer, service
recognised by the Queensland University with
an honorary degree. White was a “natural”
naturalist. A grandson of the most eminent of
Queensland botanists, F. Manson Bailey, White
turned at once to the romance of plants in the
wild, both from the scientific and field aspects,
and so became assistant Government Botanist
when quite young. In 1917 (when Grandpa
Bailey had been dead two years) the youthful
assistant who had no one to assist grew tired
of the anomaly, and I advised him to beard
the Lennon in his den —Bill Lennon (later
Lieut.-Governor) being the responsible Minister
and ask for the senior appointment. He did,
and came back grinning. “The Minister,” he
said, “stroked his whiskers, told me I was too
young, and advised me to go away and grow a
beard.” Anyway, he got the job soon after-
wards, and for 33 years served Queensland and
Australia with zest and ability.
In seven years (1916-22) White and I tramped
long distances in all manner of quiet places,
wrote nature notes and lectured in company,
served together as hori. co-editors of the
Queensland Naturalist,” and always C.T. was
the happy combination of scientist-naturalist
and good companion.
At 31 he married Hetty Clark, a fellow-
member of the Q. Naturalists’ Club, and with
her continued to uncover the botanical secrets
of the tropics. He named many new plants,
had many others named after him, investigated
poisonous shrubs and did much other economic
work, spent several arduous months of research
in the Solomons, wrote two textbooks and many
technical articles, and in between gave useful
service to numerous public bodies in Brisbane.
Several honors came his way, notably the award
(in 1946) of the Mueller Medal, peak of Aus-
tralian botanical achievement. One of his recent
jobs, partly finished, was the writing of the
governing article on botany and the various
sections on tropical plants for the Australian
Encyclopaedia. He was planning further field-
work in North Queensland at the end.
Westralia has gone to Maoriland for
a man to “bish” Kalgoorlie—the Rev.
Cecil E. B. Muschamp, son of the late
Rev. Canon E. G. Muschamp, of Laun-
ceston. The new bishop, who will be, as
well, assistant bishop of Perth, served
with Maoriland’s Air Force in Hitler’s
war as chaplain in the Dominion and in
the South Pacific.
Professor Francis Blake, Sterling Pro-
fessor of Medicine at Yale (U.S.), in Mel-
bourne lecturing to the faculty on im-
portant new aspects of his science, has
had previous acquaintance with Australia.
He was sent here in the late war to
organise a research team helping to con-
trol the dread scrub-typhus taking toll of
Allied soldiers in New Guinea. Among
his helpers was Dora Lush, of Mel-
bourne ; she contracted the disease, and
as it took its.course she took notes of her
own case and asked Professor Blake to
treat her as a laboratory example. She
died, and a tablet has been put up at
Royal Melbourne by her fellow-workers
to commemorate her pluck. The pro-
fessor recently laid a wreath on the
plaque.
Herewith, by Lambart, Bernard
Flewell-Smith, who was raised on a
Lowood (Q.) dairy, took on fruit-grow-
ing, had great faith in a struggling con-
cern called the Committee of Direction
of Fruit-Marketing, joined its staff in
1931, was its g.-m. by 1935, and since
then has raised C.O.D.’s turnover 25-
C.O.D. CHIEF.
fold. A huge co-operative concern,
C.O.D. operates eight wholesale floors
from Albury to Cairns, conducts 12
country retail units, reaches west as far
as Longreach and Charleville, services
Mt. Isa mines and delivers by air to Gulf-
country cattle-stations. As well, its pine-
apple cannery is the country’s largest,
with this year’s turnover topping £li
million —a lot of it in dollars. Son of
a brigadier-general, vice-president of
Brisbane Rotary, Flewell-Smith was with
the 15th Battalion, old A.l.F.—sergeant
and M.M.
Every Sydney solicitor will recognise
this nigged dial —property of Charlie
Butchart, retired recently as Registrar of
Probates. One of the old school of pub-
lic servants, 43 years in, he shifted from
the Lands Department to the probate
jurisdiction of the N.S.W. Supreme
Court in 1913, rose to Deputy Registrar
in 1926, and since then has handled just
about every will submitted for probate
in the State, He tried to get away to do
something about making Wilhelm’s will
operative, but on the day before he was
to sail with an artillery unit in the old
Orontes he was recalled to help out with
a press of work ; a lot of wills were com-
ing through—from Gallipoli, For the
MAN OF WILLS.
rest of that war he dealt with the estates
of soldiers and navy men killed. Qualify-
ing solicitor in 1931, the following year
he was Registrar. A good talker and a
bosom pal of lon Idriess, Butchart has
a fund of anecdotes about the documents
he’s handled —his favorite being about
the chap who left his wife one shilling to
buy a rope to hang herself with.
“Ek Dum’s” farewell:
Dead at 68, Edward Joy Munro, a son of
the Hunter River, born at Scone—ironically,
in view of his later stern opposition to Com-
munism—on May Day, 1882. He had a
record of over 40 years’ military service.
Commissioned in 1908, he served in
War I on Gallipoli, against the Senussi, in
France and Belgium, where he was “mentioned”
and won the D.S.O. End of the war saw him
on Sir John Monash’s staff as S.O. Rail
Transport, A.1.F., in London. By 1920 he was
lieutenant-colonel, commanding the 2nd Div.
Train, A.A.S.C. In 1940 he was brought back
to the active list to command Ist Division,
A.A.S.C., retiring colonel in 1941. His civilian
years between wars were notable for his
pioneering of New Guinea oil exploration as
leader of the Ormildah expedition, which
penetrated 400 miles up the Sepik in 1925; for
his secretaryship of the Australian Federal and
N.S.W. Country party for 20 years, beginning
in 1927; and for his devoted service to Sydney
Legacy, of which he was president in 1944-45.
One of his proudest days was that on which
he helped to induct his only son into Legacy
membership. He was a good and self-effacing
soldier, a pleasant companion and one of the
best and most solid political organisers this
country has produced.
Professor knight Alexander Kerr Grant
delivered the Macrossan lecture in Bris-
bane last week —subject, his old colleague,
knight William Bragg, whom Grant re-
lieved as Professor of Physics at Adelaide
University back in 1911. Son of a flour-
miller, born at Bacchus Marsh (Vic.) in
1878, Grant was lecturer in physics at
the Ballarat School of Mines and Mel-
bourne University before crossing the
border; he trained Ted Both, of “iron-
lung” fame, and was co-inventor, with
D. B. Steele, of one of the most sensitive
methods of weighing yet devised —the
Steele-Grant micro-balance, sensitive to
one-millionth of a milligram. The
professor’s students are in the habit of
giving him an annual send-off with fire-
works, songs and the wailing of bag-
pipes—to which the prof, replies with
smiles and Kipling’s “If.” He’s seen
enough of ’em come and go—having been
Professor of Physics in Adelaide for 39
years.
If a Lud Mayor of Melbourne ever
missed his third term of office the
symmetry of the golden roll in the foyer
of the Town Hall would be broken.
Councillor Disney got his statutory third
go at the gold chain and bunny-skins
last week, and will see his allowance
bumped up from £4OOO to £5OOO. Once
a noted motor-racing driver, he went into
the A.F.C. in War I. He continued
flying under a commercial pilot’s licence,
and wants speed put into the Olympic
Games preparations; but he’ll find that
a bit harder.
Another mayor installed in Melbourne
last week, Thomas Patrick Bolger, new
civic head of Richmond, and at one-time
an amateur wrestler who stirred
thousands when wrestling was an art
and not confined to obese playboys. He
scored over 150 wins in State and Aus-
tralian contests, and in 1928 appeared on
the mat as Australia’s representative at
Amsterdam.
Inigo Jones, now rising 80, figures it’s
about time he unloaded his vast
reservoir of knowledge on to younger
shoulders —man picked by the Long
Range Weather Forecasting Trust is
Clifford Hamay, English master at Rock-
hampton (Q.) Boys’ Grammar, who goes
to Inigo’s Crohamhurst observatory out-
side Brisbane at the end of the month.
Hailing from Molong (N.S.W.), the new
weather-man has made the study of
astronomy, meteorology and physical
geography his particular interest for
years, and in War I, principal of the re-
search laboratory of Hamaygas Co., of
Brisbane, he researched into the more
efficient application of gas, oil and coal
to industrial usages. Besides science,
Hamay, as, indicated by his present job,
leans towards the literary—author of
several plays, he won the 1950 competi-
tion of the Westralian Theatre Council
with his three-acter, “Gate of the Gods,”
Retiring from the job of Director of
Tuberculosis in the Speck, Dr. T. H.
Goddard, after putting his State well
in the van of the Australia-Wide fight
against the disease. It’s been his life
interest; before taking on the directorship
in 1945, he was s.m.o. of the island's
sanatorium. In addition, he lectures to
and examines St. John’s ambulance-men
(Commander of the Order of St. John
for this) and is Tasmania’s French
Consul. ‘
Into the Silence:
In Auckland (M.L.), at 69, H. Oakley Browne,
who started journalising on the long-dead N.Z.
“Times,’’ Wellington, and later became private-
secretary to Sir Joseph Ward. After an unsuc-
cessful shot at politics Browne returned to the
Inky Way and put in 30 years on the Auckland
“Star,” representing it in the Press gallery from
1935 till 1945.
In Sydney, at 82, Percy Atherton Morris,
founder, with Sir Maynard Hedstrom, of the
Fiji enterprise of merchants and traders bearing
their names. Educated at Newington College,
Sydney, he returned to Fiji, and for 30 years
devoted his energies to business and local
affairs, becoming mayor of Levuka. In 1915
he came to Sydney to live, and identified him-
self with the late Henry Marsh in establishing
the White City courts. He was a great tennis
enthusiast as well as a fine player, and at his
home in Bellevue Hill he gathered around him
tennis friends, some of whom played with him
for over 30 years. He played until over 80
years of age. An unostentatious and self-
effacing man, and one of nature’s gentlemen.
In Melbourne, at 67, Donald Macßae
MacGregor, well- known in local- and State-
government circles. After the Boer War he
took a shipload of sheep to South Africa to
restock farms.
In Toowoomba, at 74, Dave Quigley, veteran
Queensland provincial journalist who knew his
State as few other pressmen know it. An
Irishman from Galway, he had had 50 years
experience on most of the leading country
dailies, from Mackay to the Downs. He
belonged to the school of reporters who were
not only expert shorthand writers but could
turn their hand to almost any job, from penning
a bright par. to a well-considered leader.
At 79, in Armadale (Vic.), Rev. William
Thomas Hughes-Jones, for over 30 years a
Congregationalist minister and for most of his
life a practical lover of children. Magistrate
of the Children’s Court, secretary of the
Children’s Welfare Association, his kindness to
kids was almost legendary in Victoria. A
Ballarat Grammar School product, he was bom
at Balmoral (Vic.).
At 90, in Melbourne, John Bischard Grut,
one-time well-known architect. Remembered by
bowling men as the honorary designer of some
of the leading greens in and around the city.


WORD OF COMMAND
by JOHN FOUNTAIN
COCKY GORDON was firm in his
admiration for the distinguished
and reverberating word of com-
mand of some Army Instructional
Corps sergeant-majors whom he had
been privileged to hear back in Australia,
a broken misty coastline two days’ steam-
ing beyond the perfect blue circle of
water and sky.
And Cocky, from his privileged view-
point of a private—from which the
shrewdest, the most objective and dispas-
sionate judgments come, as all good
private soldiers agree—had already de-
cided that the horde of lieutenant-
colonels, majors, captains, lieutenants,
warrant-officers class I and class II and
(infantry) sergeants, corporals and lance-
corporals, as well as (artillery) gun
sergeants, lance-sergeants, bombardiers
and lance-bombardiers who —from a
special and private viewpoint—infested
and overran the big old Atlantic-ocean-
going passenger ship were not, in their
separate capacities, a patch on the
brazen-throated heroes of Ingleburn and
Greta (N.S.W.). Nothin’ like it.
In this belief, perhaps, he erred. His
own battalion boasted a long, gaunt,
sandy-haired and cadaverous-looking
regimental sergeant-major, whose pale
complexion and waxen moustache were
both attributed to service with the British
Army in the Far East, and whose voice
was of an interesting and sepulchral
depth. On parade it became charged with
a sort of gloomy and abysmal passion
which could do wonders with a collec-
tion of men unconsciously relaxed to the
inspiration of fair weather and bright
sunshine, and perhaps paying idle atten-
tion to the activities of the battalion
further down the broad white deck. And
the C.O himself, a broad, brisk, erect
and tubby man with a barrel-chest blaz-
ing with ribbons, was not to be despised.
On occasions (and particularly after a
chilly morning spent in the cosy refuge
of the officers’ mess) the colonel’s voice
was in keeping with the best traditions
of the service, no ranks barred. The best
performances would be accompanied, or
heralded, by certain external signs. The
colonel’s face would be pinker than
usual, and this hue would deepen, enlarge
and spread to a lovely embracing red, as
the colonel’s torso expanded, like the
frog in iEsop’s fable. The veins of his
forehead and neck would stand out, and
his eyes would stare, with a bulging
expanse of white. Then —the word of
command would boom out, setting his
thick, coal-black, scrubbing-brush of a
moustache fluffing and quivering, like
Van Tromp’s broom before a stiff English
Channel gale. Sara, Cocky Gordon’s
corporal, reckoned the colonel would
have made a beaut town-crier.
Not unnaturally, both the C.O. and the
R.S.M. were proud of their accomplish-
ments. And, indeed, the one calling the
battalion to attention and handing it over
to the other, making it stand at ease,
calling it to attention, and handing it
back to the first, made a pretty procession
of sounds. Sometimes, when the colonel
felt in good fettle, he would continue
the game for a considerable time ; spurred
on by rivalry, or downright envy, or,
perhaps, simply intoxicated by his own
powers. That there was a spirit of rivalry
between the colonel and the regimental
sergeant-major is certain. But there was
a deep and mutual feeling of wholesome
respect, too.
After one of these bouts the colonel
always said, grinning good-naturedly:
“That’s the stuff. Sharpens ’em up.” And
turning from the palely perspiring gaunt
face of the R.S.M. to the chubby pink
facesof the adjutant, the colonel would
ask him scornful questions about
Duntroon in a husky voice.
EITHER of these gentlemen, on his
day, and with the wind assisting,
could be confidently expected at least to
extend the roaring veterans of the Regular
Esablishment; if such an inspiring con-
test could conceivably be arranged. And
so, perhaps. Cocky was mistaken. If so
his error does nothing to diminish that
comfortable myth of the intuitive know-
ledge of the Australian private soldier —
of which the world has doubtless heard.
The blame must be placed on Cocky’s
youth, and on his antecedents. Cocky
was under 21 when he swore an oath of
allegiance to the Crown and the Com-
monwealth of Australia at Victoria
Barracks, Sydney, and for that reason
he had to get written permission, a sort
of receipt, from his father; who, with
shearing coming on, was reluctant to give
it. And Cocky, although he had a good
deal of useful information about sheep,
cattle, horses, pigs, certain types of farm
machinery and noxious weeds, knew
singularly little about Sydney or the
Army. What knowledge he had was
superficial and distorted, being gleaned
chiefly from newspapers.
From these sources Cocky had some-
how conceived a picture of Sydney as a
large place inhabited by gangsters,
beautiful women and millionaires, and of
the Australian Army as a unique estab-
lishment which, dispensing with certain
conventional laws of discipline—such as
saluting officers —managed to be the finest
fighting force in the world. One, more-
over, in which initiative, martial skill,
daring, resolution and what, for want of
a better term, must be summed up as
“the Australian spirit” could be donned
almost automatically, with the issue of
khaki field-service uniform and heavy
red boots.
Much later Cocky was to be provoked
and confused by meeting English,
Scottish, Welsh, German, Polish, French,
Italian, Greek and Yugoslav soldiers, who
were firmly convinced that they belonged
to the finest fighting force in the world,
by virtue of that indefinable essence the
English, Scotch, Welsh, German, Polish,
French, Italian, Greek or Yugoslav spirit.
After a time Cocky learnt to shrug his
shoulders at these insolent foreign pre-
tensions.
But this was in the future. In the
recent past of his entry into a training
camp, as raw as a young colt and twice
as nervous, Cocky had encountered one
of the magnificent gentlemen from the
Army Instructional Corps, in dazzling
light khaki and a Sam Browne like a
broad brown mirror. The shock of hear-
ing such a terrific voice had impressed
Cocky for all time, so that after it all
other martial voices were as inferior
echoes. And at the time it had unnerved
him, so that instead of wheeling to the
left with the rest of his platoon he
wheeled smartly to the right.
Then the terrible voice singled him out
for special attention, saying things which
caused the blood to crawl in slow dis-
comfort up the back of his neck, to raise,
as it were, a moral blister on his soul.
For Cocky Gordon had never been
spoken to like that. Never, Back where
he came from he was considered a pretty
smart young fellow. Handy with a horse,
handy in a shearing-shed, handy with his
fists. And he wasn’t called Cocky for
nothing. He. thought of jobbing the
warrant-officer —and thought better of it.
He stood still and listened.
But he bore no malice to the A.I.G.
man, who, Cocky was quick to perceive,
was only doing his work in this queer
Army world where men shouted for a
living and abuse was impersonal. He
grew to admire the A.I.C. man on parade,
and the admiration extended to the
warrant - officer’s fellows, formidable
bawlers all. He was emphatic that no
one on the troopship could hold a candle
to them.
For the rest, Cocky Gordon was a
well-set-up young man with a fine head
of curly fair hair thrown back —the
attitude of conceit —blue eyes of spark-
ling good humor and animation, and
strongly developed nose and chin, which,
with the years, would show an increasing
inclination to meet. His whole manner
exuded buoyancy and cheerfulness and
a kind of aggressive goodwill.
PRANCING impatiently behind the
four pair of khaki stockings solemnly
pacing the deck—the brigadier’s stock-
ings, the full-colonel’s, the adjutant’s and
the orderly-officer’s—Cocky had good
reason to feel cheerful. The day’s duty
of brigadier’s-runner 'was proving un-
expectedly pleasant, although it had
sounded alarming enough as outlined the
night before by the sadistic Corporal
Sam White. But the brigadier had proved
to be a kindly old man, a veteran of
more wars than Cocky could keep track
of (judging by his service ribbons) and
humane to runners. There was a chair
outside his stateroom, and most of the
time Cocky had nothing to do but sit on
the chair and wait.
When Cocky was wanted the adjutant
or the full-colonel would come to the
door and shout “Runner!” The adjutant
crisply, as he might call a waiter or a
taxi, the full-colonel as though he were
calling out the guard. But when the
brigadier spoke to him it was in a natural,
friendly tone of voice, at normal pitch.
“As though,” Cocky said to himself, “I
was a man, and not a horse half a mile
away down the paddock.” A courtesy
which Cocky greatly appreciated.
Occasional glimpses into the state-
room usually showed the brigadier’s
snowy head bent over a
table under the porthole,
the brigadier’s magnificent
red and brass cap hung on
a chair beside him, and the
brigadier’s slim brown
hand with the plain gold
signet-ring folded anxi-
ously and protectively
over a pile of papers.
The adjutant lounged picturesquely in
a chair —he was really a very perfect
young man and, even lounging, looked
as though he were engaged in a sedentary
task of critical importance in the conduct
of the war: he looked, too, as though
he could snap to attention in a twinkling.
And the full-colonel stalked up and
down, his hands clasped behind his back,
his head thrust forward, and talked and
talked and talked in a dry, biting, pedantic
voice. Occasionally the brigadier said
“Yes, yes, old chap. Very likely,” and
went on writing furiously.
Cocky discovered, too, that there were
perquisites attached to the job, which, if
not strictly legitimate, were at least
winked at. Getting drinks for the
brigadier, for instance: Cocky always
had one for himself.
Walking behind the brigadier’s
knobbly-white knees and the stouter,
brown, but by no means perfect, legs of
the full-colonel, Cocky heard a good
deal of their conversation, which was
rather one-sided. The full-colonel talked
with a fine freedom, as though brigadier’s-
runners had imperfect hearing—a belief
which explained, perhaps, his tendency to
shout at Cocky whenever he addressed
him. From the full-colonel’s conversa-
tion, two things were plain: that he was
ambitious, and that he had a poor opinion
of the other officers on board ; especially
the young ones. He aired these views
with no feelings for the sensitivity of the
adjutant, who, after all, even though his
official position gave him some claims to
the traditional infallibility of the staff, by
his paucity of years fell under the ban of
the full-colonel’s gloomy prognosis for
his generation. The orderly-officer the
full-colonel managed to ignore com-
pletely.
The full-colonel had a cold eye. Cocky
disliked him almost as heartily as did the
adjutant and the orderly-officer, who, by
a twist of irony, disliked each other, too.
But by reason of the full-colonel’s
determined cold-shouldering of the
adjutant, his superiority of rank, and his
unscrupulous tactics when negotiating
bends in the deck, or when the ship rolled
—lurching unnecessarily, and engaging
the brigadier, meantime, in lively conver-
sation —the adjutant was constantly being
forced back into the company of the
orderly-officer.
BUT Cocky was willing to forgive the
full-colonel much for his determined
treatment of Lieutenant Barker. ? Lieu-
tenant Barker was not in Cocky’s bat-
talion, but had been in the same training
company for a time at Greta, where he
had been unkind to him. On this bngh
blue morning at sea Lieutenant Barker
had been unfortunate enough to be drill-
ing his platoon, with someone elses
platoon leisurely squatting on the dec
playing crown-and-anchor a few yaro
away, when the brigadier and his pauy
descended on him. ~
The brigadier stopped. The tu '
colonel stopped. .Cocky stopped, and t
adjutant and the orderly-officer rann
out on the rails, staring. The Y f
officer called the platoon to attention _
saluted. He waited, rather anxiously,
sensed something was wrong. He ha
long to wait. . ~ ..
“What are those men doing,
tenant?” the full-colonel asked, with
ceptive mildness, nodding towards
crown-and-anchor players, who, by
feeling conspicuous, were on their ■
The lieutenant peered anxious y
them. “They’re standing up, sir.
(Continued on page 22.)
ABOUT CAROLINE.
(2) She Tells of Her Youth.
“In my mother’s house is a narrow bed
With a feather pillow for my head,
Lavender scents its sheets, for wise
Is my mother: such simple herbs dis-
guise \
What must be concealed; how well she
knows
The dark, the double life of the rose.
She weaves fine linen on an ancient
loom
And keeps sweet flowers in my bed-
room.
Thus all the neighbors nod and agree
On her virtue and simplicity.
“My mother does not wish to hear
If I go by a fire andl walk too near,
She pulls up the blankets and shuts her
eyes
If I enter the house at first sunrise.
And when I tell her: ‘The world is
wide,’
She answers, ‘And minute, and just out-
side;
Having, indeed, no broader span
Than between wheelbarrow and water-
ing-can.’
You will see,” she explains, “my mother
and 1
Live decorously in an intricate lie.”
Two wise women; what strange desire
Merges in smoke from their hearth-fire?
Two wise women; can man discern
The nature of those sweet logs they
burn
Or the shape, scent, color of the bloom
that grows
On their innocent smouldering garden
rose?
And Caroline cries—“Oh hate, oh
love!
Which world have I ranged, what sky
above
Witnessed my flight when the white
moon said
‘ln your mother’s house is a narrow
bed’ ?”
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


SPOTLIGHT
By ARTHUR VINES
THE ancient utility stuttered noisily
into life, startling from their apathy
the few dishevelled hens that had
been scratching disinterestedly at the
ground near by. It set off down the drive
in a rush of wind and swirling dust, its
loose parts rattling over the ruts, the
ripped hood of the driver’s cabin flutter-
ing in the breeze.
Two men stood upright in the back,
grasping tightly at a cross-bar, their faces
screwed up in the rushing wind.
“Hey, take it easy there, Jack!”
The driver, a lad of seventeen or
eighteen, sat cockily at the wheel, grinning
at their discomfort. He stuck his head
through the windowless door and yelled
back at them:
“She’s jake!”
“Well, keep your eyes on the road —
don’t look at us! ”
The lad grinned with cheeky confidence
and withdrew his head.
“Think he can drive all right?” Reg
asked.
He looked at his cousin Bill, hoping
for a word of assurance, but feeling in-
stead a stab of uneasiness when his
question was greeted with an indifferent
shrug of the shoulders.
This sort of thing was new to Reg.
It was all right, he supposed, coming up
here for a holiday—so long as it was
just a holiday. A chap couldn’t afford
to take risks with some of these cockies,
who were, he had decided, a pretty wild
lot. He wondered why on earth he had
consented to go with them on this rabbit-
shooting stunt tonight. He wasn’t really
interested. He shivered in the cold night
air, thinking of the fire and the good
book he had forsaken.
They rattled along through the gather-
ing darkness. He looked over at Bill, who
grinned and made some comment, but
it was hard to distinguish his words over
the noise of the truck.
Jack periodically stuck his head through
the window in front to glance back at his
passengers, and whenever he did so his
face registered considerable surprise, as
though marvelling in the fact that they
still were his passengers. Once he called
out; “Will you listen to ’er? . . . she’s
going like a bird.” He had only had the
truck for three days and his voice held
immense pride.
“Wish he wouldn’t keep taking his eyes
from the road like that,” Reg said, his
fingers drumming nervously on the spot-
light affixed to the cross-bar.
“Not much traffic around this time o’
night—he’ll be all right.”
| T was then that they both heard the
* excited barking of a dog.
“That sounds like Blue,” Bill said.
“Damn it, I tied that mong up before
we left; he must have slipped out. Hey,
Jack!” He kicked his foot against the
wooden partition of the driver’s com-
partment.
Jack stuck his head out.
“Whatsamatter ? ”
“Pull up.”
Tyres screeched on the loose earth.
Reg fell over backwards. The motor
coughed convulsively; then died. Reg
Sot to his feet, rubbing at the seat of
his pants.
After the racket of the engine, the
night seemed robbed of sound. Only the
wind rustled softly through the grass in
the paddocks on each side. The other
two were out on the road, and by the
tone of their voices there seemed to be a
heated argument in progress. Over their
voices Reg heard again the barking of a
hog. The sound came up the road to him
°nt of, the darkness, and in another
moment the dog bounded up to the
running-board of the truck, whining with
pleasure, scratching at the earth.
“Get the devil out of here!” yelled
Bill.
“We’ll have to take him back,” said
Jack with annoyance. “You know what
happened the last time he came with us.”
“We can’t take him back now —we’ve
come too far.”
“Can’t you send him home?”
Bill waved his arms threateningly at
the animal.
“Go home, Blue —go on, get!”
The dog wagged its tail.
Jack groaned despairingly. “Oh, hell,
he’s goin’ to muck up everything. Why
couldn’t y’ tie him up properly?”
“It’s no use going crook now —he’ll
have to come, I s’pose,” Bill said.
“Now listen here. Bill, that dog’s a
damned nuisance with the rabbits and you
know it. Every time he sees one he goes
mad. He’s no good for spotlight shoot-
ing. The fool will chase ’em right off
the beam.”
“Well, I can’t flamin’ well help it, can
I? I didn’t want to bring him.”
“Well, for God’s sake send the blighter
’ome! ”
“He won’t go home,” roared Bill.
“Now shut up and get in. The dog’s
here and he’ll just have to stay.”
“This is goin’ to be a beaut night—
I can see that,” grumbled Jack as he got
back into the cabin.
BILL swung himself into the back of
the truck as it moved forward. The
dog ran behind, its large tongue, wet with
saliva, hanging loosely from its broad
mouth,
“He’s not a bad old mong,” Bill said.
“Had him since he was a pup.” His
voice contained a mixture of tolerance
and affection. He added after a short
silence, “Jack’s got a dose of ’em to-
night.”
They jolted on through the darkness.
The dog scampered along in their wake,
occasionally darting ahead with an excited
bark, to run perilously close to the front
wheels. Jack could be heard cursing
irritably whenever the dog ran across
his path, forcing him to swerve violently.
After some minutes they came to an
abrupt halt. In the white glare of the
lights a post-and-rail gate loomed against
the blackness. Bill jumped down from
the tailboard.
“Where are we?” Reg asked.
“Benson’s place. These paddocks are
crawling with rabbits.”
He undid tfie wire fastening on the
gate and the truck moved through.
“Switch on the spot. Jack!” he called,
running up from the rear.
A long spear of light stabbed the
darkened paddocks, throwing into fan-
tastic relief the distorted limbs of gnarled
trees and luminously white shapes, which
were shrubs and light scrub.
Bill climbed back into the truck.
“You can have a go with the spotlight
for a while, Reg,” he said. “Just sweep
it along the fences as we go along. Soon
as you see a rabbit, keep the light right
on him.”
“It sort of hypnotises them, doesn’t
it?” asked Reg.
“Sometimes —mostly, though, they get
for their lives —hey, hold it steady there! ”
But it was hard, Reg found, to keep
the beam steady in the jarring body of
the truck. He gradually let his attention
wander from the beam to peer apprehen-
sively ahead of the truck. It was so in-
fernally dark in front; he wondered
how on earth Jack was managing to steer
clear of trees, with the headlights out.
They were a reckless lot, all right.
SUDDENLY Bill grabbed at his sleeve.
“There’s one . . . Oh, cripes, you’ve
missed ’im. Swing it back this way
again ... a bit further . . . There he is.
Hold it!”
A deafening report exploded inches
from Reg’s ear as the truck jerked to
a halt.
Jack called out from the front, “Did
you get him?”
“I’ll say I did! Did y’ see him jump
when I hit him, Reg?”
Reg said yes, he saw.
They drove over to where the rabbit
lay. It was not yet dead. Bill jumped
over the side and picked it up. He held
its hind legs and throat and expertly
broke its neck. He threw it into the
truck. Reg felt it kick against the leg
of his trousers, then become still.
Jack got out of the front seat and
came around to the side of the truck.
“How about giving me a go with the
rifle, Bill? I can’t drive and shoot as
well.”
“Fair go. Jack—we’ll swap after a
while. You’ll have a chance,” Bill said.
Jack got in again, grumbling sourly,
impatient for the kill.
The smell of blood and gunpowder had
excited the dog. It tore over the grass,
barking, sniffing suspiciously at bushes,
scratching up earth, equally as impatient
for the kill.
In spite of his previous squeamishness,
Reg began to feel a mounting excitement
within him. He concentrated more
acutely on the beam as it swept rapidly
over the grass. In the excitement he
ceased to care about the direction they
were taking. What if they did hit a tree
—wouldn’t matter much. A few bruises,
maybe. Nothing much. Suddenly he
found himself laughing.
“Say, this is all right,” he yelled at
Bill.
Bill laughed in his ear. It made Reg
feel good. It was the laughter of youth,
unrestrained, full with the pulse of life.
Bill broke off suddenly and yelled,
“There’s another one!”
Reg saw the rabbit and tensed himself
for the explosion.
But the dog had seen it, too. It ran
straight into the beam of light, yelping
with excitement. The rabbit fled. The
dog pursued it, its ears flapping absurdly
with the rhythm of its body. Reg held
them both in the spotlight.
“Get out of that, you silly mong!”
yelled Bill, but he refrained from pulling
the trigger. Both dog and rabbit dis-
appeared into the darkness.
THE truck had stopped. Jack stuck
his head through the door.
“There y’ are, what did I tell youse!
That bloomin’ dog’s a no-hoper. He’ll
chase ’em all away like that.”
“It’s no use going crook,” Bill re-
torted impatiently. “I couldn’t fire.
I might have hit Blue.”
“Damn good riddance if you did!”
bellowed Jack, yet even as he spoke he
saw the dog trotting back and there was
a rabbit clenched between its jaws. It
deposited its prey on the ground near
the truck, then sat on its haunches and
wagged its tail.
“Reckon he’s no good for the rabbits,
do you?” Bill said, patting affectionately
the dog’s head.
“Yair, but it ain’t the same as potting
’em y’self with the rifle . . . and I’m
tellin’ you, Bill, with that mong of yours
around, we won’t get a chance to kill
anything!”
“Oh, stop whingeing. Jack —let’s get
moving again, we’ll be okay.”
They began circling the paddock again.
“Don’t know what’s the matter with
Jack,” said Bill between jolts. “He’s
hard to get on with tonight.”
“He seems to have it in for old Blue,
all right,” agreed Reg.
“He don’t have to call my dog a silly
mong,” Bill muttered. “Shine the light
over the other side for a while, Reg.”
Reg swung the beam and immediately
exposed a forest of glittering eyes.
In front. Jack slammed on the brakes
and went for his gun.
“Oh, boy, we’ve got ’em this time —
watch me pot the red!” he yelled.
But already the dog was on the war-
path and the rabbits, startled from their
hypnosis by the oncoming dog, skipped
swiftly away into the darkness.
“Quick —there goes one, keep the light
on him,” cried Jack.
“Take it easy—mind my dog!” Bill
warned.
“Blast your flamin’ dog.”
An explosion shattered the night.
“Did you hit it?” Reg asked.
JACK stamped out of the cabin,
fuming with anger.
“I’ve had enough of this. That stupid
mong put me off my aim. I would’ve got
one if it hadn’t been for your flamin’
mong! ”
“Take it easy —you don’t have to keep
yelling all the time. You was too late
going for . your rifle —that’s why you
missed.”
“Well, how can I drive the damned
truck and shoot, too? What about giving
me a go up there in the back?”
“All right, then. You’ve been belly-
aching all night. Get in and see what
you can do. I’ll drive for a while.”
The two exchanged places. Bill got in
front and eased the car forward. The
dog could be heard yelping excitedly in
the shadows to their right.
“Good mind to take a pot at that
mong,” hissed Jack as they got under way
again. “Here we’ve been out half the
damn night and we’ve only got one
rabbit. We usually have dozens by this.”
“Don’t forget the one Blue caught,”
said Reg.
Tor an answer Jack spat over the side.
Minutes passed uneventfully. Jack
shifted his feet impatiently, swearing ex-
plosively every now and then as the beam
cut a blinding path over the grass with-
out revealing the slightest sign of life.
By this time Reg had learned to dis-
tinguish between pieces of shining metal
or tin which, deceptive at first glance,
had seemed to him to be the unmoving,
luminescent eyes of their quarry. He
continued to stare with unrelenting gaze
along the beam as the old utility chugged
spasmodically through the night.
“Dear Janice,
The other night I went out spotlight-
shooting with the boys. We had a good
night. I managed to shoot five or six.
(Continued on page 32.)


MOVE MERCHANDISE MOVES
m
m
m
m
u
■y*>: V
' A
m
v
K
ONE
O NT I
AT
-fu>elM
I»1 -
New Installations
of Post-war Design
OTIS ESCALATORS
ADELAIDES
BRISBANE:
MELBOURNE:
SYDNEY s
H
If
PERTH:
Myer Emporium
(S.A.) Ltd
McWhirters Ltd
Myer Emporium Ltd. ...
Manton & Sons Ltd
Anthony Hordern &
Sons Ltd
David Jones Ltd
Mark Foy’s Ltd
Boons Ltd
OTIS CtcalatwA
PUT MOTION INTO SALES PROMOTION
This Otis escalator installation at Myer Emporium
Ltd., Melbourne, invites customers to visit depart-
ments on upper floors—to see more and to buy more.
Properly planned escalators induce shoppers to visit
all departments . . . promote a high density ratio of
customers to merchandising area » . . make for more
store traffic, more sales—and more profits
Your local Otis office will be glad to give you the facts
and survey conditions in your store.
p
-
r»
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE * PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA • FRANCE
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER*
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
' OPERATORS
•TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVER*
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURER*
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDER*
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ’ 1 PUBLISHER*
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL.” BRISBANE
JACKSON
OSUIJJ\A?f
Pty, Ltd.
Incorporating
gd
fg
PINS
Every P« n *
guaranteed
do not experiment with
C BRANOAUfII * CO. LTD, BIRMING
“Ah!” The full - colonel
turned and looked at them. So
did the brigadier and the orderly-
officer. And so, a trifle unwil-
lingly, did the adjutant. “Ah!”
The full-colonel smiled. “So
they are. And what were they
doing a moment ago—when we
came along? Did you happen to
notice that, lieutenant?”
The lieutenant swallowed.
“They wdre playing crown-and-
anchor, sir.”
“Ah!” The colonel smiled
mercilessly. “They were playing
crown-and-anchor! And now
they are doing nothing! They
haven’t an officer, I see. Unless
that was their officer running the
game. Upon my soul, I wouldn’t
be surpri s e d. And you,
lieutenant, had no higher concep-
tion of the duties of an officer
than to placidly drill your
platoon a few yards away!”
“It isn’t my platoon, sir,”
Lieutenant Barker said, suddenly
very red in the face.
“ Lieutenant!”
“Sir I”
Lieutenant Barker had been
standing at attention. But now,
as the enormity of his offence
dawned on him, he stiffened as
though he had received an electric
shock, achieved a kind of
dramatic caricature of attention,
with arms rigid, fists clenched
till the veins stood out and chin
bravely squared, and maintained
this difficult position throughout
a considerable lecture on the
duties and responsibilities of
officers. The brigadier looked at
him with weary impatience. The
orderly-officer shuffled and stared
over the side, at the gulls swoop-
ing and the lean grey destroyer
cutting through shining waves,
racing and turning like a frolic-
some greyhound, leaving a wide
creaming wake behind her low
bows. The adjutant stared at his
neatly-trimmed fingernails, as
though he were sorry for
Lieutenant Barker, but amused,
too. He couldn’t quite keep the
smile from his firm lips. And
the full-colonel lectured.
Cocky almost found it in his
heart to pity Lieutenant Barker.
Almost. But Lieutenant Barker,
after all, had been very unkind
to him back in Greta. Cocky
dismissed soft thoughts of ruth,
and smiled at Lieutenant Barker
most insolently from behind the
safe rampart of the full-colonel's
crown and two pips. In doing
this Cocky was dimly aware that
the adjutant and the orderly-
officer could see him. But he
sensed that the full-colonel had
so demoralised these two young
gentlemen that they would do
nothing about it.
“Parochial,” said the full-
colonel to the brigadier, as the
little procession moved off.
“Parochial —all these young
officers. As long as it isn’t their
own petty little pigeon ...”
“Yes, yes, old chap,” the
brigadier said. His signet-ring
gleamed in a deprecating gesture.
“But —there you are ...”
Cocky felt happy.
ALREADY Cocky was be-
ginning to feel himself one
of the staff. It was with a
wrench of distinct regret that he
realised that his duties terminated
that night—and it was already
afternoon. A blue, pleasantly
warm afternoon, with the blue
waves still flashing and the
destroyer still engaged in its
light-hearted exercises. Gentle
perspiration gleamed on Cocky’s
bare brown arms, and the same
healthy moisture had darkly
stained the back of the
brigadier’s khaki shirt, and
shone on the adjutant’s short
tilted nose. Cocky glanced at
the row of stockinged legs in
front of him. The adjutant’s
were the best —no doubt about
that. They were magnificent —
there was no other word for them.
The orderly-officer’s, although
muscular, were plebeian. More
like , a carthorse’s. But the
adjutant’s legs would have done
credit to a male ballet.
It was hard to think that to-
morrow he would be only a
number, obedient to the paltry
commands of Corporal Sammy
White and n.c.os, without end.
One gets a sense of security, of
dignity and detachment, on the
“ 'Tain't fair —you give 'm bigger tipsh, get bigger hat!"
staff. After a day of a brigadier,
a full-colonel and a brigadier’s-
aide even lieutenant-colonels
seem rather common clay.
Which brought Cocky’s mind
switching back to his own-C.0.,
that redoubtable roarer. Cocky
was having a fine opportunity of
testing the C.O.’s abilities
against those of other command-
ing officers on the ship, for the
present tour pf the ship was an
official inspection by the
brigadier. Cocky’s job was to
walk behind his superiors and,
as they approached a battalion,
to dart in front of them and
inform the colonel of the
brigadier’s imminent arrival.
The colonel would then call his
battalion to attention as the
brigadier appeared. As tar as
words of command went, Cocky
considered the other C.Os. a
poor lot. They lacked both the
physical qualifications and the
zest of his own commander.
And all of them, Cocky was
sure, were inferior to tne
champions of Greta.
'T'HEY were approaching
1 Cocky’s battalion now, and
Cocky leaned forward a little and
pranced with impatience. Viewed
from the rear, Cocky always
looked as though he were, lean-
ing forward slightly—at least
from the hips—and then, sud-
denly, his back shot straight up.
This phenomenon was partly due
to the abnormal development of
his gluteus maximus that
compact bunch of muscle so
convenient in sitting—and also to
the peculiar eager, swinging
motion of his arms, which were
always carried half-bent, with
wrists slightly curled and palms
inclined back —as though,
Corporal Sammy White said,
“he was carrying a couple of
buckets of milk.”
They were getting very close
now —and Cocky was growing
increasingly impatient. For the
battalion was waiting just around
the curve of the stern, and,
owing to the manoeuvring of the
full-colonel and the adjutant,
each determined to walk as close
as was seemly to the brigadier
and to exclude the other, the way
was barred, A roll of the ship
assisted in this blockage, and, as
fate would have it, the orderly-
officer, with an unexpected deter-
mination, decided to take a hand
in the game. The battalion was
still out of sight, but Cocky knew
that it was near. It was, in fact,
much nearer than he suspected.
But what could he do? Cocky
wondered half - humorously.
When one is a private one can-
not unceremoniously shoulder
full-colonels and brigadier’s-,
aides out of one’s way, or even
orderly-officers. As Cocky acutely
realised. The realisation shows
that Cocky’s journalistically-
inspired ideas regarding discipline
and the A.I.F. had suffered a
profound modification since he
had come down to Sydney from
the bush a few short months ago.
Then —a gap showed, between
the brigadier’s expanse of khaki
shorts and the full-colonel’s.
Cocky took advantage of it as
eagerly and swiftly as a jockey
at Rand Wick. He shot through
the gap like Darby Munro in his
prime, and then, with the
brigadier’s breath hot, as it were,
on the back of his neck, he
blinked twice at the unexpected,
yet feared, picture of the bat-
talion drawn up before him. A
few heads turned and stared at
him. Each platoon and man and
company was in its and his
appointed place. The C. 0., his
moustache standing out thick and
black against his fiery face, had
just stood them at ease. Cocky
stood for a moment, gasping.
He felt as though he had ridden
from Ghent to Aix and arrived a
minute too late.
All this for the merest
moment. It is doubtful if Cocky
thought at all at this crisis—
although he justified himself
plausibly enough later the
words just sprang to his lips.
Loud words. Fine words.
Words of power. “Batt-al-yun!
Ten-SHUNI”
OCKY was aware of a
number of things simul-
taneously—as though at this
moment he had been granted
extra senses, an enlarged field of
vision. He was aware of the
C.O.’s round, hot and staring
eye; of the R.S.M.’s sandy
waxed moustache ; of the full-
colonel—it could have been no'
one else—snorting behind his
right ear. Of the brigadier’s
“No—no ...” and of the bat-
tafion, as though in slow motion
yet precisely and impressively
enough, coming to attention
And of the • angry, baffled,
horrified expression in the
C.O.’s eye as he reluctantly came
to attention, too.
It was not, after all, such a
very impressive word of com-
mand, Cocky thought. But it
worked! And he was aware of
the brigadier’s voice saying,
hurriedly, “No, no, private. You
must not call a battalion to
attention. That’s the colonel’s
job.”
The colonel’s boot - heels
clicked together a little later than
the concerted, impressive click of
all the other heels, and the
colonel glared. “Never,” said the
brigadier, “never call a battalion
to attention, private. That’s the
colonel’s job.” But he said it
with a quiver of amusement.
‘ ‘ W OU are a galah,” Corporal
i Sam White said later.
“Cripes, Cocky, really you are.
Galah. Cocky—galah—ha! ha!
Get it?”
Cocky smiled. He had heard
that particular joke before. Be-
sides, his mind was pleasantly
occupied with thoughts of the
colonel’s eye; of the R.S.M.’s
indignant waxen moustache ; and
of the pomp and power of the
battalion coming beautifully to
attention,
“Galah, ha! ha!” babbled
Corporal White, intoxicated by
his own wit. “That’s what you
are. Cocky—just a galah!”
Cocky smiled secretly. He
could afford to ignore him.


BRANDTS famous TILLEY
STORM LANTERN
I!
300
Candle
Power
Here’s a safe, reliable lamp to
give yon brilliant illumination
anywhere, under all conditions.
It has heat-resisting: Glass, is
stormproof, and is solidly
made in Brass metal.
Economical and easy to ope-
rate, this famous British
KEROSENE Pressure - type
Lamp is moderately priced at
86/-
CAMPING APPLIANCES.
Brandts stock pressure-pattern
Stoves, Hurricane lamps, Wick
Stoves, etc. All spare parts
supplied.
Mall orders by return mail.
ADD FREIGHT.
oil Aid sioNvaa
APPLIANCE
SPECIALISTS
SINCE 1878
371 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 'Phone: M 4651.
TILLEY. RADIATORS
(BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE)
df
“THE ADMIRAL”
Double Burner Radiator
Model R. 46. Burns 10
hours on 2\ pints of
Kerosene. Luxurious
warmth, when and
where you want it. The
Modern Form of Portable
Heating.
“THE AMBASSADOR”
Single Burner Radiator
Model R.I. Burns 12 hours
on one filling of I \ pints of
Kerosene. The complete
answer to those cold pass-
ages and occasional rooms.
Portable.
Australian Representatives:
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
"KllflMlMimHlll nil
Ln
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD. OF ENGLAND
SUNDRY SHOWS
Society of Artists.
Except for the sombre and
massive landscapes of Lloyd
Rees there is nothing to get very
excited about in the N. S. Wales
Society of Artists’ exhibition at
the Education Department Gal-
leries —the grimy walls of which
are still a disgrace to the State
—but it keeps up pretty well
the society’s energetic and
liberal policy with its usually
fortunate results.
Three landscapes by George
F. Lawrence are the most vigor-
ous paintings after Lloyd Rees’s.
His view of Sydney, round Hyde
Park, looks as if he had been
studying the impressionists’ im-
pressions of Paris and London
rather than looking closely at
Sydney; but maybe that is be-
cause all city parks, all over the
world, look much the same and
because the wet July in which
he painted Hyde Park did make
this hot town look harrowingly
like London. At any rate, when
you give them the distance they
require, as you have to with
Lloyd Rees’s monumental
“Omega Pastoral,” his wet pave-
ments glitter with remarkable
force; and his country “Land-
scape,” characteristically scrubby
and scratchy, has his character-
istic sullen and rugged power.
Nora Heys e n ’ s “Spring
Flowers” is exactly like a hun-
dred other Nora Heysen flower-
pieces—bright-red and soft-blue
anemones with yellow daffodils
bunched tightly in a glass jug
against a purple drape—but it is
just as fresh and just as gay and
just as brimming with life as
the others; and vital in a way
not matched by any other
flowerpiece in the show, for the
rest, like so many of the land-
scapes, are all abstract,
merely decorative, dead.
Even Maud Sherwood’s water-
color “Magnolia” is marred by
the fact that she has let the
purplish-blue she is so fond of
run like ink into the creamy
texture of the flower.
No new painter of any force
emerges, but there are a few
small pieces of some promise by
Marjorie Penglase,’ Maurice G.
Sullivan, C. G. Taylor, Kath-
leen Jones, Roy Fluke and —a
warm little interior entitled
“Sunny Corner” Lorna
Harvey.
And there are the up-to-
standard paintings by well-
known artists, such as Arnold
Shore’s “Dawn,” Norman
Carter’s small landscapes, John
Rowell’s “In the Grampians,”
Arthur Murch’s sleeping mother-
and-child, two portraits by
Dattilo Rubbo and some abo-
riginal motifs nicely translated
into English by Margaret Pres-
ton. Some slums by Sali Her-
man show an increasing warmth
of life and color, but whether it
is a cow or a goat walking down
the slum he has managed to find
in Tasmania, only the artist and
the goat (or cow) will ever
know. Dobell is represented
only by the lovely “Saddle-My-
Nag,” painted years ago and
lent by Mr. Norman Schureck.
The watercolors, in which
Kenneth Macqueen is not at his
best and in which Hal Missing-
ham is beginning to look very
much like Kenneth Macqueen
(not at his best), are a poor lot,
redeemed by an unusual John
Eldershaw of vivid red earth
and spinifex-grass from Cen-
tralia; and the sculptures, most
of which look as if they are
still trying to become sculptures,
are redeemed by Daphne Mayo’s
powerful bronze of Dr. Christine
Rivett.
But there is no doubt how
strikingly Lloyd Rees stands out
in his present company, nor
how firmly he would take his
place in any company. It is
difficult to kindle to his work,
but it is admirable, as the
novels of Dostoevsky or Henry
Handel Richardson are admir-
able: cold, hard, nightmarish,
ferocious, barren and majestic.
Frank Medworth.
A selection of Frank Med-
worth’s paintings at Sydney Mac-
quarie Galleries makes a far
more striking impression than
did either the huge exhibition
in a bewildering variety of
styles with which he first intro-
duced himself from London or
the thinly-decorative watercolors
which were his characteristic ex-
hibition-pieces in the few years
before his death.
There are some of the thin
paintings, both in oils and water-
colors, at the Macquarie Gal-
leries, but the body of the show
is a group of small oils—
“ Whale Beach,” “Sketch for
the Hairdresser’s Window,”
“Above Careel Bay” and, par-
ticularly, “Rain on the Coast,”
with its windswept palms in a
harmony of blue and green —all
of which are as solid in quality
as they are lovely.
A couple of larger landscapes,
“San Jinez” and “The Road to
the Bathing Beach,” would also
catch the eye in any company
for their rich sunlight and the
warmth of feeling underlying
them. For the wit, sombre
depth or mellow sunlight of
these paintings you meet the
sincere artist who was always
present but not so easily seen
in the expert stylist and the
light-hearted decorator.
* * * ♦
Arthur Boyd, a newcomer
from Melbourne at David
Jones’s Gallery, Sydney, offers
big, crowded, surrealist pictures
under the influence of Breughel
and big, slippery, tempera land-
scapes under the influence of
Sidney Nolan. Because of the
pleasant pastel-colors of a pic-
ture of a waterhole amongst dry
brown grass and the subtle way
he can infuse light into distant
blue ranges he looks as if he
might have something to say
later on; but at present he
doesn’t show either the techni-
cal capacity or the spiritual
depth to be able to carry a big
picture through to a successful
conclusion: as
Lloyd Rees aren’t made in a
day and don’t grow on every
bush. Boyd’s surrealist pictures
are too coarse in drawing and
too lacking in Rabelaisian gusto
to be even remotely compared
with Breughel, and the childish
drawing of cows like Emile
Mercier’s yaks in the landscapes,
though it may be meant as light-
heartedness, looks too much
like either incapacity or insin-
cerity.
* * * *
In David Jones’s Little Gal-
lery are some curious flower-
pieces by Mrs. Arthur Chauvel.
They are painted in some tech-
nique of her own so that the
color sinks into the minute
squares of the material, as if
she had painted on the back of
masonite. Consequently they
don’t announce themselves very
clearly as paintings, but they
have a certain warmth of color
which is attractive if you regard
them as a sort of tapestry.
Gyorgy Sandor.
At his opening Sydney concert
the Hungarian pianist established
his quality immediately with
the Bach Prelude and Fugue
in D Major. This Busoni tran-
scription is a model of its kind,
and to it the pianist brought
some beautiful phrasing and an
ability to build the sonorities of
the Fugue with masses of tone
which were never clouded.
In the Brahms variations on
the Paganini Theme, from both
books, despite the high polish
given the veneer of the embel-
lishments the grain of the theme
itself was never obscured.
The Schumann “Carnival” was
a scintillating affair, and the
technical scraps of Chopin’s
Andante Spianato and Polonaise
Brillante were brushed aside in
a reading of vigor and brilliance.
On Saturday night Sandor
seemed anxious to show how the
D Minor Chromatic Fantasy and
Fugue by Bach, the Wanderer
Fantasy by Schubert and the
Liszt Sonata in B Minor would
sound if they were only notes
and phrases; this method of
piano-playing makes percussion
passages seem a little surprised
to have been discovered, but,
especially in the hands of such as
Sandor, who can make notes
melt into each other like liquids,
it can be beautifully and imper-
sonally effective. Robbed of its
great romantic wail, the main
theme and variations of the
Wanderer Fantasy were still
lovely music. But the Brahms In-
termezzo, Op. 117, and the Schu-
mann Toccata, Op. 7, showed the
method at its best. Two little
encores —a Chopin waltz, ex-
quisite and crisp—and Mr.
Sandor, seeming to decide not to
let us go without telling us some-
thing, announced a Toccata by
Prokofieff and a “short piece” by
Bartok (one of Mr. S.’s masters).
It was as though a young man at
a soiree, who had been making
polite conversation to a girl
about concerts he had attended,
had turned to go, and then, on
the impulse of the moment, had
planted upon her lips two expert
and voluptuous kisses. If you
add a wide-eyed smile, as though
to say, “That surprised you,
didn’t it?” before the young man
finally marched off, you have
something of the effect of those
-two encores.
* * * *
William Warfield’s two re-
citals in Brisbane seemed inade-
quate to satisfy the demand, and
at the end of his final bracket
the whole audience became one
Oliver Twist. In his two recitals
he catered for all lovers of bari-
tone singing, 'whether they were
devotees of lieder, French art
songs, ballads or spirituals. It
seemed to this commentator a
little disappointing that the en-
tire second half of the pro-
grammes should have been given
over to popular ballads and
spirituals, so deep an impres-
sion had he made with his ora-
torio and lieder singing before
interval. A voice full of warmth
and understanding, Warfield’s
was ideal for the calm resigna-
tion of Bach’s “Come, Sweetest
Death” and Brahms’s “In
Lonely Woods.”
* * * *
Conductor Klemperer served
Brisbane with a feast of
music obviously suited to his
own tastes and to the size of
the Queensland orchestra. The
major works of the concert were
the Haydn Symphony No. 88 in
G and the Beethoven Eighth.
The conductor was superb in the
slow movement of the Haydn
work, and in the Beethoven his
never-flagging tempos and his
extremely short pauses between
movements achieved true sym-
phonic unity.


m
mm
m
Mr. PHILIP WIRTH
Ringmaster of Wirth’s Circus, says:-
‘Small’s Club Chocolate
gets top billing
from me.”
Famous Wirth’s Circus
was founded over 70
years ago by Mr. Philip
Wirth’s father and three
ancles. The Circus has
been on two world tours
... survived earthquakes
in New Zealand and
floods in N.S.W. It takes
a special train half a
mile long, longer than two
Melbourne expresses, to
move Wirth’s Circus from
one town to another.
gd
“Chocolate experts have told me
that the louder the snap the better the
chocolate,” says Mr, Wirth. “Well, take it
from me, Small’s Club Chocolate snaps with a crack
like a lion-tamer’s whip, It‘s the quality chocolate with
that not-so-sweet flavour. I give it top billing every time.”
\7
dg
Small's
make Great Chocolate
Troops Move
Everywhere.
“Ek Dum”: The first Aus-
tralian troops of the First Royal
Australian Regiment which
was formed from two returning
8.C.0.F. battalions last year—
left by air for Japan on August
31. There were only 80 of them.
Missing Friends.
WILL CHARLES OLIVER, late of Leon-
gatha, Victoria, and Smithton, Tasmania,
or any person or persons knowing his
whereabouts, communicate with his
brother, of 11) Lang Street, South Yarra,
Melbourne? The matter is urgent.
KNIGHT.—WiII REX KNIGHT, or any
person knowing his present address,
please communicate with the undersigned
solicitors? Mr. Knight is thought to
have migrated to this country some 20
years ago, and to have lived for a time in
Torrington Avenue, Newcastle, N.S.W. —•
BRADLEY, MAUGIIAN & POOLE, Soli-
citors, 27 Hunter Street, Sydney. Tel.,
B.W. 7090.
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
jgjg
01
Rupture
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and lh Days’ rTee
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
o
m
LU4
ď
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
machines at only a trac-
tion of their cost The
"National" Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plant-
Music, etc.
Built untiiety In Ausnaiin hr
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
JHftrlbuUng Agunu —
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Pen fold * Co. W
« Norman Bro». ** tJr
V.rd.- A S.»« M*
». ■ * daaß Co.
THE SERVICE MAN
, , „
Thrusts in Korea.
“Ek Dum”’ The balance in
me uum . me oaiance m
the war m Korea drifts further
in favor of the Allies of U.N.O.
every day, and the first troops
other than the Americans to
arrive m the field have come to
find that they are taking part in
operations in which the im-
mediate worst is over
British troops went to the
front during the week, and the
first detachment of the Austra-
lian First Royal Regiment will
follow on their heels. The
enemy is making what looks
like his last big drive in South
Korea, which began in the
North towards Pohang in a
South Korean Army sector on
August 28, accompanied by hard
thrusts to test the U.S. line else-
where.
The Americans, however, are
now in a much better position
to be versatile than the enemy.
and whenever a major attack de-
velops they have both men and
materiel to reinforce.
The fighting continues to
move from point to point,
There is, of course, no
continuous line. The enemy
holds a series of strong-points on
hills and ridges from which he
sallies out offensively, and some
bridgeheads across the Naktong,
which is low and easily crossable
by reason of the drought.
A New Push
Towards the end of the week
fresh Communist attacks de-
veloped all along the line in the
confused atmosphere which
seems to govern the disjointed
business of war in Korea, lead-
ing every correspondent in the
place to multiply his estimates of
the number of North Koreans
fighting by anything to suit
his taste. Thus North Koreans
who on Wednesday were
supposed to have certainly
not more than 60,00 on
the front were discovered at the
weekend to have anything up
to 120,000. And the eyes of ob-
servers shifted from the gaunt
and haggard members of the
enemy who were brought in
starving or who had been dis-
covered fighting with sticks
turned into spears to a re-
organised series of powerful
divisions freshly armed and
armored and supported by Yak
strafing fighters—this despite
continued bombing of North
Korean war factories and com-
munications which sounded as
if it were on the same scale as
that towards the end of the war
on Germany.
Either Russia and China are
in the war on a large scale, and
the sparse U.S. forces have at
least nine lives, or the grossest
exaggeration is going on. Half
the unofficial reports make sheer
nonsense.
The Official Story
The confusion and disjointed
nature of the fighting is illus-
trated. by the official com-
muniques, even though these
naturally do not disclose the
whole story for the benefit of
the enemy.
On August 29 General Mac-
Arthur reported that a North
Korean force had been com-
pelled to withdraw from posi-
tions in the Sangsong-Myong
area —20 miles n,-n.-e. of Taegu —
on the previous day after break-
ing into the South Korean Sixth-
divisional area.
The following day the fighting
in the same area was represented
by the operations of “Com-
munists estimated at platoon
' strength,” who succeeded in cut-
ting a road 10 miles south-west
of Pohang, while almost directly
to the north of this the South
Koreans were “forced to with-
draw from Kigye 300 to 400
yards,” the U.N. forces having
occupied Kigye the day before,
following a period of what had
been called “continuous Com-
munist pressure which caused
no significant changes” all along
the front of the Kigye-Pohang
sector of the north.
On August 30 (again to fol-
low the communiques) “Com-
munist lunges at Pohang forced
some parts of a heavily-strained
South Korean line to retire,” but
further west on the northern
sector near Kigye the South
Koreans held firm under heavy
artillery and small-arms fire.
Nevertheless, the enemy was on
the offensive almost all the way
along the northern side of the
U.S. defence box, making some
gains towards the centre near
Uihang. His pressure continued,
but by the weekend the focal
point in the north shifted to-
wards the east coast, with the
North Koreans advancing to
take “important heights.”
In the South
Meanwhile, in the south the
developments had been as fol-
low :
August 28: U.S. reconnais-
sance reported many small
groups of the enemy moving
south-east from Songju, 18
miles from Taegu, “with heavy
pedestrian traffic.” These were
on the opposite side of the Nak-
tong River to the U.S. forces.
August 29: The U.S. Second
Division repelled “three enemy
attempts to cross the Naktong
River in small boats” west of
Yongsan and 18 miles north of
the south-coast port of Masan.
August 30: U.S. troops
counter-attacked in the enemy
bridgehead across the river just
above the point of the attempted
landing the previous day and at
Hyonpu bridgehead > a little
further north. They “advanced
one mile.”
A ugust 31: The Communists,
having launched an offensive
along the Naktong River, lost
1000 men. The attack was con-
tained except in the far south
on the right flank of the U.S.
25th Division, where the North
Koreans captured Haman, eight
miles north-west of Masan in
the , bridgehead made by the
easting Naktong River and its
tributary, the Nam, which flows
into it from the south-west
where it bends to the east.
Heavy fighting was taking place
at Songjin, on the Second U.S.
Division front.
South Fronts Stabilised
September 2 : On that and the
previous day areas of the
enemy’s now - general attack
along the south-western front
began to stabilise “as a result of
strong ground and air attacks
by friendly forces.” In the U.S.
25th Division area the right
flank had been “largely re-
stored” and the enemy attacks
had been reduced to a “small
scale” and small groups of
Americans isolated by the weight
of the onslaught were rejoining
their main units.
To the north of this flank the
U.S. Second Division with the
Marine brigade were attacking
enemy penetrations consequent
on the heavy enemy drive, and
had “consolidated in heavy fight-
ing.”
Up in the north-west in the
formerly critical Waegwan area
the First Cavalry were “gaining
some ground,” •.
A Heavy Strain
There is no doubt that the
Americans must be feeling the
strain even if the North Koreans
have only half the 100,000 troops
which are always credited to
them whenever they fire a few
tons jnore ammunition than
usual.
General Walker has the 25th,
24th —badly battered and re-
formed —Second Infantry and
First Cavalry Divisions, plus the
Marine brigade and some
combat teams —in all not five
complete divisions to hold a line
more than 120 miles long in the
trickiest kind of country.
The enemy, of course, with his
habit of advancing in peasant
clothes and with the choice of a
hundred points at which to
launch feints or attacks, has con-
siderable advantages which
double the value of his man-
power, though they do not get
over the disadvantages of his long
communication-lines and over
the effects of United States com-
mand of the air and wealth of
materiel.
Over the weekend the North
Koreans had made some pro-
gress towards Taegu in the
central sector, where the situa-
tion for about the dozenth time
was reported by correspondents
to be critical, and they had made
progress also in the Waegwan
area to the north-west which
had brought them within nine
miles of Taegu.
It was, however, difficult to
say* as usual, how much of these
retreats were deliberate man-and-
material saving by a resilient
U.S. defence and how much was
due to temporary control of the
situation by the enemy.
Further south, while the
enemy advanced in the Masan
area, the Second Division and the
Marines on the left flank of this
operation on September 3 had
turned the tables on him and re-
lieved him of his gains of a
couple of days before.
Thus, the whole war for the
week was on the usual seesaw
method, though on a growing
scale of intensity. There was no
real cause for anxiety. At the
same time the American com-
mand must have been glad to
hear the skirl of the pipes as the
Argylls Sutherlands and the
Middlesex moved up to the fight-
ing line for action only five days
after their landing in Korea.
Two battalions means a good
deal at the present stage of fight-
ing.
It will be nearly three months
from the actual beginning of the
Korean War before they see a
shot fired.
They were farewelled by the
Minister for the Army and Navy,
Mr. Jos Francis, and Lieutenant-
General Berryman, G.O.C. Eas-
tern Command, and Mr. Menzies
sent them a message.
They join the Australian Oc-
cupation Force in Japan, which
now adds up to a whole half
battalion, or thereabouts, and
when the military command of
Australia, with its 30 - odd
generals, lieutenant- and major-
generals and brigadiers, can
build it up to a battalion it is to
join with the British battalions
of the Middlesex and Argyll and
Sutherland Highlanders to make
up a British Commonwealth
Brigade.
Troops from Hong Kong
The sending of the British
battalions from Hong Kong, to-
gether with the forces now on
their way from Britain in H.M.
Aircraft-carrier Warrior, was a
gallant gesture in view of the
threatening attitude of Red
China at the moment.
The strength of the Hong
Kong garrison after the with-
drawal of the infantry brigade
sent to Malaya in March was
only about 28,000 men, the heart
of which was the 40th Division.
The latest move will temporarily
reduce the holding force to not
much more than 20,000 until re-
placements have reached the
colony.
These are being sent in the
shape of the First Battalion,
Wiltshires, which are already on
their way from the United King-
dom, some Gurkha units which
are under training in Malaya, an
armored-car squadron, also in
Malaya, and some odds and
ends.
Generally, the replacement
should be complete by the
middle of the present month or
a little later. The armored-car
squadron will be from the
Fourth Hussars, and can be
spared because of the presence
in* Malaya of the 13/18th Hus-
sars. The Gurkhas are not part
of the force in use against
Malayan terrorists. They are
fully-trained men who have
been undergoing a special course
as engineers.
It seems a great pity that
Australia, apart from its token
air assistance in Malaya, cannot


..."you'd do better
by appointing Bums Pip Trust"
m
■
H
jr
v
Jn
■
:x ■
Wm
m
m
*-■-,-
Unlike a private executor, Burns Philp Trust Company
Limited won’t grow old and feeble. Experienced Officers
continue to take good care of your affairs. If you have
appointed a private executor, now is the time to transfer
full responsibility to the Company. A senior trust officer
will explain the advantages. Or you may write for the
informative booklet, “Hands That Never Leave the Wheel.’ *
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. f. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, F.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR TRUSTEE ATTORNEY
7 Bridge Street, Sydney
Telephone: BU 5901 Box 543. G.P.0., Sydney
đ
* . >•
IfiSlSliS 0
RENRUT
hand pump
m
mi
KISMET
c^aiac/et
What’s the value of a tyre gauge? If it isn’t
accurate, it’s worthless. If it is accurate—and made
to stay accurate —it’s worth every penny of its cost.
That’s the Kismet for you . . . truthful every time
. . . which means a properly balanced car, comfort-
able to ride in, safe and easy to drive.
AND what price a Foot Pump? Or a Hand Pump?
Just ask your Garage Man to let you try a Kismet.
See how easily its double-cylinder action inflates a
tyre I Then examine it closely .. . note the fine,
solid Sheffield workmanship.
You’ll never grudge the little more you pay for a
Kismet product. It comes back, to you in extra years
of real service.
d
KISMET
TYRE GAUGE
i
1
m
m -•
m
m-
KISMET
MASTEI
FOOT PUMP
Hade
Mr. E,
by William Turner (Kismet), Ltd.,
Sheffield, England.
_ Representative in Australia;
Q. Jones, 43-49 Hardware St., Melbourne, C.l ; Victoria.
6.P.0. Box 71.
The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
all States.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS' BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: -411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
lI—IL- 11
il—Jl
Mag*
mm
mm
INVERNESS
IM
ABERDEEN
PERTH
•f
m
*
S3E2
»
GLASGOW
EDINBURGH
w
DUMFRIES
BELFAST
Wmmi
wm
mm
m
+
MMm
VORK
iZSS
LLANRWST
IH
4r
w
4i
LLANGOLLEN
m
NORWICH
STRATFORD-ON-AVON
WORCESTER
CAMBRIDGE M
DAVID'S
m
+
»
SWANSEA 1
r CHELTENHAM
+
IN\
OXFORD "V
LONDON
+
WHp
wm
BATH
m
m
CANTERBURY
BOURNEMOUTH
BRIGHTON
m
+
Festivals
of the Arts
Exhibitions
During the Festival Summer from May to Sep-
tember 1951, the visitor to Great Britain will
find something of interest going on everywhere. In
addition to the centres shown above, cities, towns
and villages all over the country will take part in this
great national event. With exhibitions, arts festivals,
carnivals, pageants and sporting events of all kinds,
there will be something for everyone to see, to enjoy,
and to remember.
Further details of the Festival Programme will be
published in this journal over the next six months.
C. 2
send a few battalions to help re-
lieve the tension in Malaya and
Hong Kong. The very presence
of Australian troops would have
a great moral effect in Asia and
would make real Mr. Spender’s
oft-reiterated claim to a share
in the management of the affairs
of South-eastern Asia.
Canada now has 8000-odd
men enlisted for its special
U.N.O. brigade, but it will be a
little time before it is in the
field. .
The preoccupation of the
Atlantic nations continues to be
with Europe, where there are
rumors of a pending peace-treaty
between Russia and East Ger-
many, which, of course, would
be accepted into the fold of the
Iron Curtain satellites and used
as an advance base for menace
against the West.
Service Term Extended
The week has been marked by
various movements of defence,
the two most important of which
have been the reorganisation of
British national-service arrange-
ments and the United States
House of Representatives’ action
in passing a Communist Party
Control Bill.
Britain has raised military
pay from a basic 4s. to 7s. per
day and extended the period of
conscriptive service from 18
months to two years in the face
of what Mr, Attlee describes as
“the immediate need for a
greater number of fully-trained
men in the armed forces to
act as a deterrent to aggression.”
The move, however, on the
present basis will add only 4000
men to the R.N., in which 89
ships of various sizes are being
reconditioned, plus 18,000 to the
Air Force and 55,000 to the
Army. Most of the new men
will be used to strengthen over-
seas garrisons and to create re-
serves in Britain.
The Air Force strength is
being built up by the addition
of revised types of new machines
powered with the powerful
Sapphire engine and with new
weapons.
Last week the first full-scale
air manoeuvres of the Western
Defence Union were held in
Europe, based on a presumption
of invasion from the East.
Rearming Germany
Meanwhile the Western Ger-
many Government, through its
leader. Dr. Adenauer, continues
to urge the creation of defence
east of the Rhine.
Dr. Adenauer urges the im-
mediate drafting of British, U.S.
and French troops into Western
Germany to meet the danger of
a surprise thrust from the East,
of which he sees indications in
the recent speeches of the Com-
munist leaders of East Germany,
Herren Ulbricht and Willi
Pieck.
It is suggested that the Wes-
tern Allied troops should be
used as a screen behind which
would be installed a force of
West German volunteers. As
usual, the French have expressed
nervousness at the thought of
creating any West German force
larger than 200,000, Their view
appears to be that it would be
better to suffer invasion again.
So far Dr. Adenauer’s scheme is
not fully official. It apparently
has been put forward to feel
world opinion.
Congress Deals with Corns
The United States Congress
has before it two emergency re-
armament bills, one for
£A7,000,000,000-odd which was
passed a week ago by the
Representatives and sent on to
the Senate to cover costs of
strengthening American and
Allied forces, and the other
covering £A1,800,000,000 for
purposes of the Atlantic Pact
countries Greece, Turkey,
Persia, the Philippines and the
Far East. The House of Repre-
sentatives also passed on August
30 a Communist Party Control
Bill at least as stiff as that passed
through the Lower House in
Canberra,
It requires Communists and
Communist organisations to
register with the Department of
Justice and to indicate clearly
the sources of their propaganda.
Communists are to be barred
from Government and other key
positions, and it will become an
offence for Federal employees
to contribute funds or help in
any form to Communist bodies.
Penalties range up to 10 years
in jail and a $lO,OOO fine.
Contemporaneously the Aus-
tralian Government decided to
tighten up on passports for Iron
Curtain countries, which will
leave the Polish “peace” confer-
ence short of some distinguished
Australian members. Mr. Ernest
(“Balance-sheet”) Thornton ap-
parently got out of the country
just in time, if it does not trans-
fer to London, as is suggested.
The awful muddle into which
Australian defence has been led
through being made a political
plaything is illustrated by the
fact that recruiting is at present
going on for five separate
groups: (1) the Korean force,
which Mr. Francis is “pleased to
say is almost complete” after
weeks of herculean effort, (2)
reinforcements for the Korean
force, (3) the Permanent Army
and the Militia, (4) warrant-
officers and instructors who are
being enlisted in the United
Kingdom, and (5) officers of the
Permanent Army. This, of course,
covers only the Army, and other
efforts will be made in the
general scheme for the R.A.N.
and the R.A.A.F. When we
have finished we shall have some
troops prepared to go anywhere,
some troops who will have to
stop dead in the surf and wait
for the enemy to land in Aus-
tralia before they can be made
to lay a finger on him, some for
a few weeks in the Army under
compulsion, and some for
various numbers of years and for
various purposes. It is about time
the Government took the bull
by the horns and had a
thoroughgoing amendment of
the Defence Act
♦ * ♦ ♦
The George Cross which
ranks with the Victoria Cross,
though it is worn after it —has
been very belatedly awarded pos-
thumously to N 103951 Private
Benjamin Gower Hardy and
N 24457 Private Ralph Jones.
Both these gallant soldiers lost
their lives on the night of August
4, 1944, when on duty at No. 12
p.-0.-w. camp at Cowra (N.S.W.),
as members of a Vickers crew in
a compound holding Japanese
p.-0,-w., of whom over 1100
staged a mass outbreak. The
citation declares:
Privates Hardy and Jones displayed
outstanding gallantry and devotion to
duty in their fight to the death
against an overwhelming onslaught by
fanatical Japanese, who stormed out
over the perimeter armed with knives,
baseball clubs and other weapons
and bore down on the machine-gun
crew.
Privates Hardy and Jones stood
their ground and continued to work
their gun until bashed to death by
the Japanese, who were worked up
to a state of frenzy with the objective
of either wiping out the garrison or
being wiped out themselves.
These soldiers met their deaths in
the true British spirit of sacrifice for
their country.
The pity is that the award did
not follow immediately upon the
deed.


A Solicitor to draw
your Will . . .
..Lit.
■ hi ■ i • <1 iii ||
illimia.
niiri
\f*
a Trustee
to safeguard your Estate
Only an experienced person can hope to
contend with the complicated problems
and other aspects of a Will and the
administration of an Estate. During your
lifetime, and afterwards, your obligations
to your family or other beneficiaries can
be honoured only by your care now.
The Permanent Trustee Company offers
you the sage counsel of over sixty years’
experience as Executors and Trustees;
offers you the stability and protection of
over £1,000,000 in uncalled capital and
assets.
Avoid unnecessary risks; enjoy peace of
mind and ensure security of your
interests now and always. Appoint the
Permanent Trustee Company as your
Executor and Trustee.
For full details, call in and interview one
of our Executive Officers in confidence
and without obligation; or write for our
/ree booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.ChM., F.R.A.CS.
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager & Secretary: S. U. White.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart.
Peroiftiient Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St.. Sydney
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE ENEMY WITHIN.
“Why must democracy
always be saved by heroism,
never by foresight and wisdom?”
Thus former Belgian Prime
Minister Spaak, in a London
‘‘‘News Chronicle” article deal-
ing with an assortment of re-
mediable Western weaknesses,
without so much as a passing
reference to what could be the
most damaging weakness of all
to some of the coalition —the
Soviet-serving fifth-column in
their midst.
That overlooking has been
characteristic enough of most of
the Western side, though lately
there have been signs of at least
a partial awakening. The
sabotage in ships of the British
Navy, for instance, almost
stirred up the old Lion to do
something about the menace —
at all events, some British
newspapers expressed a little
concern. “Armed aggression by
Moscow,” London “Observer”
commented, “can no longer be
regarded as a merely hypo-
thetical contingency. It is now
as much an actual menace as
the Communist subversion.”
In more direct reference to the
Portsmouth explosion, the
“Yorkshire Post” said that
“Among the many anxious ques-
tions which the Communist
menace is forcing upon us, few
are more pressing than that of
the protection of our dockyards,
munition factories and other de-
fence establishments against the
saboteur.”
Making the point that this
particular threat from within is
“something new and startling,”
it further commented:
“Never has a potential enemy
had at its service so many
fanatical helpers, able to mix
freely among the workers in vital
industries and to hinder the work
of those industries by devious
and cunning methods,
“What the Communists can
achieve by such means as the
organisation of unofficial strikes
we have already seen. But we
have had recent sharp warnings
that there are those among us
who are prepared to go far
beyond such forms of sabotage.
The outrage at Portsmouth was a
portent that the Government
cannot safely ignore.”
However, apart from a pro-
nouncement that Britain’s
security precautions are being
tightened-up, and the bracketing
together by Mr. Attlee of
“peace campaigns, unofficial
strikes and sabotage with intent
to murder” as examples of Com-
munist activity, Britain is appar-
ently doing nothing about its
fifth-column enemies, taking the
same stand regarding them as the
“Daily Mail” recommends, after
dubbing the Communist “Daily
Worker” “an enemy news-
paper”: “It is just as though
we had a Hitler propaganda-
sheet in London during the last
war, with reporters accredited to
the Reichswehr, Even so, we
do not have to take the
‘Worker’s’ absurdities too tragi-
cally. If the time comes it can
be dealt with.”
Still, here and there are
appearing some glimmerings of
a more realistic approach, on the
lines of comment by another
“Yorkshire Post” correspondent:
“The Communists in our midst
are representatives of a move-
ment which, acting under the
direction of Russia’s totalitarian
Government, is waging war upon
us ceaselessly.
“Yes, ‘war’ is the word. The
TH
•'V 't
—Baltimore (U.S.A.) "Sun."
FULL-DRESS REHEARSAL.
term is no longer limited in its
meaning to armed conflict. War
is simply a means by which one
nation imposes its will upon
another. The totalitarian States
have evolved a technique by
which they can impose their will
without resort to armed force.
The ‘cold’ war serves the pur-
pose of a shooting war. It is
war.
“By burrowing into a nation’s
political, industrial and social
institutions, by propaganda, by
exploiting the weaknesses of the
democratic system, a totalitarian
Government, acting through
their lackeys abroad, can get a
stranglehold on another country
without a single soldier crossing
the frontier.
“Thus they impose their will.
Here we have the kind of war
of which Mr. Strachey spoke at
Colchester: ‘The Communists,’
he said, ‘leave us no choice but
either blindly to obey the orders
of the Politbureau in Moscow, or
to take part in the world-wide
struggle against them.’
“Thus the question arises.
With a Communist war in pro-
gress against us, to what lengths
can the dupes and slaves of the
Cominform in our midst be
safely allowed to go?”
The “Yorkshire Post” writer
concludes by recognising as “the
plainest of plain facts” that
“Communists here are allies of
a foreign Power whose aim is
to subdue us” —a conclusion Mr.
Menzies arrived at some time
ahead of him, and others some
time ahead of Mr, Menzies.
A further sign of what might
be a belated awakening might
be seen in a London “Sunday
Times” editorial comment, deal-
ing with sundry symptoms of
somnolence, such as the fact that
Britain is “still selling materials
of war to Russia.” Turning to
the need for “internal security
against disaffection, spying and
sabotage,” it declared:
“The Portsmouth incident was
a sharp warning. But interfer-
ence with the economic effort be-
hind rearmament is just as dan-
gerous as sabotage plots.
“The principle of freedom of
opinion and utterance is not in-
volved. Everyone in this country
is entitled to his political views,
and has the right to advocate
them by lawful means. But
attempts to hinder or prevent the
manufacture or movement of
goods required for national de-
fence are under no such demo-
cratic protection: they are on
a par with incitement to mutiny
and ought to be subject to equal
penalties.”
Britain, no doubt, is relatively
well-off compared with others of
the Western side,, to the fifth-
column position of all of which
these comments by a “Nineteenth
Century” writer may be applied;
“It is a commonplace of con-
temporary political strategy that
even if the great majority of a
people chafes under a Com-
munist dictatorship, the political
techniques of the free world
scarcely permit this discontent to
be exploited from outside, so
that the opinions of the public in
Poland or Manchuria play a very
minor part in the balance of
power ; whereas the way is open
for international Communism to
exploit any dissident minority in
the free world for the purposes
of subversion. Today small
groups of determined men can
effectively frustrate the develop-
ments on which the democracies
have increasingly come. to stake
their success —a steady increase
in economic prosperity, in social
reform, and in democratic free-
doms.”
Across the-Channel the menace
of the enemy within is, of course,
vastly greater than in Britain. A
London “Daily Mail” corres-
pondent gives the following de-
tails of Communist activities
there; —
“They [the Communists] are,
it is now plain, trying to do two
things: First, they are trying to
get a really strong hold on the
minds of selected people instead
of swaying the masses. Secondly,
they are trying to create in the
minds of ordinary Europeans a
spirit of non-resistance and de-
featism,
“This first aim they are pur-
suing with particular vigor in
Italy, where their strength is
already great and the human
material particularly favorable.
“With more or less intensity
the same trend is going on every-
where. A hard core of - con-
vinced Communists is to be
created capable of handling three
possible situations: (1) An in-
ternal coup d’etat or leadership
of a civil war; (2) sabotage and
fifth-column work in the case of
an international war; (3) the
outlawing of the Communist
party by one or more Western
European Governments (it is a
real possibility in Italy and
France).
“At the other end of the scale
is this defeatism campaign, this
‘softening-up’ of ordinary men.
They are no longer told: ‘You
are being exploited by the capi-
talists —throw off your economic
slavery and be masters in your
own house,’ They are told:
‘Anything is better than war. It
is worth doing anything to avoid
it. You won’t be fighting for
your country, anyway ; you will
only be fighting for the interests
of a selfish class. What is the
point of wrecking everything and
getting millions of people
killed?’
“And so Europe is in the grip
of the Communist Peace Cam-
paign. And it is hard to pre-
tend that it is not being success-
ful. It does correspond with
what people genuinely feel. They
do desperately want peace.
“So the stimulus of greed has
been replaced by the stimulus
of fear. The non-fanatical Euro-
pean is being conditioned to
create a public opinion hostile
to war preparations, to fight half-
heartedly, or not at all, if war
comes, and to join the winning
side docilely in the event of a
successful coup d’etat or revolu-
tion.
“The mind of the non-fanatical
European is very far from being
proof against such an attack.”
Russia’s Baltic Aims.
A British newsman’s report of
Soviet aims in the Baltic (recently
mentioned here) is wholly en-
dorsed by the former vice-presi-
dent of the European Parlia-
mentary Union, K. Bogholm, in
a London “Sunday Times”
article.
Naming as the “two decisive
factors” in Russian foreign policy
a “craving for access to the
sea” and “the idea of world
revolution,” the writer states:
“The Soviet leaders are
Russian Imperialists before they
are ‘world citizens.’ That is why
Russia is pushing along the
shores of the Baltic —on her way
to the North Sea and the
Atlantic,
“In the first years after the
war Russia based her fleet on
Riga and Reval, the former
capitals of Latvia and Estonia.
Then she pushed on to the
former capital of East Prussia,
now called Kaliningrad, after the
late Russian President, turning
this port into an important naval
base. No German was allowed
into the harbor area. Then the
German population was evacu-
ated from Prussia and Tartars
were brought in from Russian
Asia.
“For the time being the
Russian cruisers appear to be
based on Szczecin (Stettin). An
advanced base for destroyers and
submarines has been established
in the fishing village of Warne-
mixnde, whence a ferry-boat used
to take passengers to Denmark
before the war. The island of
Riigen has been strongly forti-
fied during the last year or so
and has been made a base for
V 2 weapons, together with
Peenemiinde on the mainland.
“Till a year ago, the Swedish
navy was undoubtedly the
strongest naval force in the
Baltic. After the inclusion of
the new cruisers in the Russian
fleet this is no longer the case.
“The Russian operational units
comprised not only ordinary
warships, but also a fair number
of small landing craft, of a type
that would come in very handy
if landing operations were to be
undertaken against a State
bordering on the Baltic....
“The Baltic,” the writer con-
cludes, “has not been much in
the news, but what happens there
is bound to have a direct bear-
itfg on the balance of power be-
tween Democracy and Com-
munism.” -
Softening-up Persia.
In London “Economist s
comment, “It is best to make no
secret of the fact that Persia


: 7
Planned for
ECONOMY
CONVENIENCE
APPEARANCE
J&Ti\
tt:
LOMJOrtt
11**9* I
,55
DESIGN No. 242
ECONOMY, because a
"Durabestos" Home is
the "Lowest in cost to erect" of all types of permanent
homes; CONVENIENCE, because the plan embraces all
of those -features desirable for present-day comfort,
including a spacious living and sunroom, three bed-
rooms, built-in cupboards, functional kitchen, bathroom
with shower recess, double access lavatory, hallways giv-
ing direct entry to every room; and APPEARANCE,
because of the modern wail, window and roof treat-
ment—ail this in a "Durabestos" Home of only 1,185
square feet. Write to WUNDERLICH LIMITED, Box
474, G.P.0., Sydney, for booklet.
D'~~Jtyiuicix?lluA,
URABESTOS
BUILDING SHEETS
NOTE; Refer to local Hardware Merchants re availa-
bility of "DURABESTOS."
DOCTORS
STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
mm
U
mm
m
m
m
m
/dorm
mow
mt/vsomoi
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
A credit to the company, that’s Bill! He’s the man
with that clean, s-m-o-o-t-h, successful look. You, too,
can have shaves that look good and feel good . . . Palmolive
Shaves! Palmolive soothes your skin as you shave
faster, closer without skin sting! Get Palmolive,
the shave cream of successful men!
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
ď
ONLY
19
PS4/J2O §
BANKERS • EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN
LAWYERS
comes high up on the Kremlin's
list of spots m Asia that are
being softened up next, per-
taps ,0 Korea and Indo-
China.” . . .’
Powerful Soviet apparatus, it
reports, has been jamming
Tehran radio. Broadcasts de-
signed to sow discontent among
North Persian inhabitants
Azerbaijanis and Kurds—have
been made from Erivan and
Baku. Since mid-May Moscow
has been delivering peremptory
Notes in Tehran about Persia’s
employment of American firms
for oil prospection and explora-
tory drilling in the north.
Inside Persia the Tudeh (or
“Mass”) party has been getting
additional help from abroad,
and “Slowly radical minds have
been forced to begin thinking
that a Tudeh victory—even at
the price of Soviet domination
—may be the only route to eco-
nomic and social improvement.
Simultaneously there has seemed
to set in among all Persia’s pro-
fessional politicians a total col-
lapse of morale that is most
propitious from the Soviet
standpoint.”
Fake.
From a joint statement issued
by the leaders of the Protestant,
Roman Catholic and Jewish
faiths in America, giving their
view of the so-called “peace-
petition” being peddled by Com-
munists under Cominform direc-
tions: —
“This spurious peace petition,
which has already deceived
many well-meaning people here
and abroad, is a camouflage de-
signed to confuse the free
societies and to conceal the
aggressive policies revealed in
the invasion of Korea.
“It is those aggressive policies
and actual aggression which con-
stitute the greatest menace to
world peace.”
Satellite Underground.
Those who accept the prob-
ability of underground move-
ments in the satellite countries
causing Russia serious trouble
in war are supported by a
“Manchester Guardian” corres-
pondent’s recent report from
Vienna that there are definitely
stirrings of opposition even now,
despite the general grim rule:
“In Rumania there is some
movement among the active
Catholics and Zionists. There
is a carefully-organised small
Socialist underground among
industrial workers in Hungary.
Public speeches by Communist
leaders and numerous trials
show that there is more opposi-
tion in Czechoslovakia than in
any other satellite country. Ac-
cording to active members of
the Czech underground, groups
of the various Czech parties
exist in almost every town and
village, including groups of in-
dependent anti-Stalinist Com-
—Milwaukee (U.S.A.) "Journal.”
PARTY LINE.
munists. The underground has
its supporters and sympathisers
in the Army and police.”
British Motors.
London “Times’s” motoring
correspondent has dug out
some quite extraordinary
figures in British motor produc-
tion, including a grand tally of
100,000 more vehicles in the
first six months of this year than
in the same period of only a
year ago.
Total of cars, trucks and
buses produced in this past six
months was nearly 400,000, and
four-fifths of the number of
cars and 65 per cent, of the
trucks were exported, “a com-
bined rate of nearly four
vehicles for every minute of
every working day” during the
period.
Even more remarkable is
Australia’s place in this great
performance, the increase in
British cars sent here being
from 30,000 in January-June,
1949, to 70,000 for the first six
months of this year. Moreover,
the number of commercial
vehicles sent here in this past
six months 26,000 was 10
times greater than that sent to
any other single market!
Unchanged Japs.
Behind the present polite
fafade of obedience to the oc-
cupation and other authority,
forces are still there among the
Japs which, as commented on
by G. Ward Price in a London
“Daily Mail” report from
Tokyo, may revive when control
is lifted. Among these he lists:
1. —The Japanese conviction
that they are the natural leaders
of Asia.
2. —Their anti-European feel-
ing.
3. —Long experience of a
totalitarian regime, easily
assimilable to that of Commun-
ism.
4. —The instinctive desire of a
proud nation to avenge its de-
feat in war. They no longer say
“When we were defeated . . .”
but “When, we stopped fight-
ing . • .”
Rare Independence.
From a “Foreign Affairs”
article, a striking example of the
American spirit of independence,
by way of contrast to “leaving
it to the Government”;
“Despite farm-price support,
despite tariff protection, despite
public pensions and free ser-
vices, the American stubbornly
retains his habit of looking after
himself. Last year 36 farm-
credit co-operatives in Texas
paid off $8,000,000 owing to the
Treasury and raised an addi-
tional $7,000,000 to replace the
Government funds, because they
wanted to be independent of
Government supervision and
this despite the fact that they
paid no tax on profits derived
from Government-loaned capi-
tal and must now pay taxes on
profits derived from their own
funds.”
This’ll Rock You!
By all accounts Chiang’s
cohorts on Formosa, if it came
to an invasion, would be a bit
of a pushover ; but it seems the
potential invaders have their
problems, too.
At all events, a correspondent
of N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
reports that the Formosan
Straits are becoming “increas-
ingly rough each week” ; then,
in perhaps the most moving
specimen of imaginative report-
ing since the Korean war started
(which is saying something), he
adds: —
“A second problem is the
notorious susceptibility of
Chinese to seasickness. Many is
the story of voyages in Eastern
waters in which Chinese pas-
sengers become ill before the
ship leaves the dock, or in which
they are confined to their cabins
while others are feeling fine.
“A Chinese who just arrived
in Taipeh from Foochow re-
ports that the Reds are putting
their men in sampans and rock-
ing them violently to accustom
them to the motion of the sea.
On land, soldiers are tied to
long planks and tossed about.”
That ought to just about rock
not only the tossed but also all
the other scribes up that way.
And they’re not few! Up to
August 21 there were in South
Korea alone a total of 271 war-
correspondents representing 19
countries; among them two
women war-correspondents!
Dragnet Digest.
Korea and U.N.O. While the
Korean outbreak has won some
kudos for U.N.0., what it really has
demonstrated, in the view of former
Belgian Premier Spaak, is that
U.N.O. is in need of reform: “If an
international organisation is to be
efficient, it cannot be sapped at its
foundations by the right of veto. Is
it reasonable that peace should depend
on meddlesome procedures, on the
ill-will of one individual or the com-
plicity of some?”
* * * *
Churchill in German. —Instancing
the “high prestige enjoyed by Mr.
Churchill in Germany,” London
“Daily Telegraph” records that the
first edition of 10,000 copies of the
first volume of his war memoirs has
been sold out and that the first
edition of the second vol., also 10,000,
was nearly sold out before publica-
tion: “When it is remembered that
the German price is about 38s. 6d. a
volume, the genuine popularity of
Mr. Churchill among our late enemies
can be appreciated.”
* * * *
Russia Intends War. Declaring
that “Russian production of tanks
and aeroplanes is greater than that
of all the Western countries com-
bined,” Lord Vansittart, in London
“Daily Mail,” insists that “unless we
can make the adventure forbidding,
Russia intends to attack so soon as
the circumstances become sufficiently
favorable by the double process of
her huge armaments and her huge
fifth-columns.” He would certainly
endorse the Menzies Government’s
anti-Communist measures, holding
that all the Western Governments
simply must cut down the fifth-
columns.
* * * *
Satellite Armies. A London
“Times” correspondent gives these
figures for the three Soviet satellite
armies in the Balkans (Bulgarian,
Rumanian and Hungarian): At least
five armored divisions, more than
350.000 first-line soldiers, about
200.000 security troops (Communist
militia), and an armored force of 800
to 1000 Russian tanks.
« * * *
Germans View the Occupiers. —ln
London “Time and Tide” Frank
Ericson (a German, who, however,
served in the British forces in the
late war) sums-up on the Western
occupiers as the Germans see them:
“From the German point of view,
the French occupation record was
easily the worst. And yet today the
French, largely because of the Schu-
man plan, as well as the social and
cultural atmosphere which surrounds
much of what they are doing, are the
most popular occupying Power. On
the other hand, the stock of the
British has fallen decisively in the
last two or three years”—in fact, the
British come third, after both French
and Americans.
* * * *
Attlee and Truman. —Contrasted by
London “Economist”: “It is true that
both Mr. Attlee, the believer in
Socialism, and Mr. Truman, the
believer in capitalism, hold their jobs
mainly because they are good poli-
ticians who are recognised to be pur-
suing the honest aim of improving
the lot of the people at large. The
President has powers which far exceed
those of the Prime Minister, but far
more in the way of profundity, dig-
nity and public restraint is expected
by the British of Mr. Attlee than is
expected by the Americans of Mr.
Truman. It is one of the important
ironies that, ever since the makers of
the Constitution equipped the Ameri-
can President with powers which set
him apart from all others in the land,
the American people have demanded
that their President should exhibit the
character of a plain Joe, with as few
as possible of either the airs or graces
of leadership.”
* * * *
Recipe for Wdrld Unity.—Pro-
pounded by “A Student of Europe”
in London “Observer”: “The theme
of the century is world unity; and
the nucleus round which world unity
can crystallise cannot be anything
less than an Atlantic Community,
uniting North America and Western
Europe and linking them through the
Pan-American Union with South
America and through the Common-
wealth with Africa, Asia and Aus-
tralasia.”
* » • ♦
Prosperous Singapore. —Stating that,
of visitors arriving in Singapore these
days, those coming from Britain are
impressed chiefly by its prosperity,
those from other parts of the dis-
turbed continent of Asia, chiefly by
the order, cleanliness and administra-
tive efficiency which prevail, a Lon-
don “Times” special correspondent
reports trade figures showing it is
more prosperous today than at any
time since the war, with more money
in circulation. “Experts who six
months ago were predicting a reces-
sion have been agreeably surprised
at the continued expansion. Two
factors are responsible. First, the
price of rubber has risen steadily.
Secondly, Singapore is benefiting once
again, as it did during the years
immediately after the war, from un-
settled conditions in Indonesia, and
the trade with that country is today
greater than it has ever been.”
He * *
Real Prize, Europe. —Holding that
Korea “has always been in the bag”
for the Kremlin, and would, in any
case, be “untenable to the West in
case of war with the Communist
world of Russia and China,” U.S.
authority on European and Russian
history Professor Peter Viereck com-
ments in N. Y. “Herald Tribune”:
“Why should Russia bother antagonis-
ing world opinion by unleashing its
Korean war-dogs for a prize already
in the bag? The answer is: The real
prize is by no means in the bag. The
real prize is Europe. The Korean
war is a feint. In a feint boxers may
lead with their left in order to score a
k.o. with their right. Soviet Russia
is leading with its left in Asia to
score a k.o. with its right in Europe.”


VVs
Don’t take age for granted
Don’t take age fo,r granted where
whisky is concerned. Whisky is
not good whisky until it is 5
years old. Here's how you can tell
whether the whisky you buy is 5
yeairs old or not. Look for the word
“OLD” on the label. This is your
protection.
When whisky is bottled under Aus-
tralian and Excise Department Super-
vision, it must not be labelled
“OLD” unless it has been matured
for at least 5 years. Every bottle
of Corio Special Whisky bears the
word "OLp”—every drop of Corio
Special Whisky has been matured for
at least 5 years in oak casks. Insist
on the whisky of, outstanding quality
—Australia’s finest whisky—-“Corio
Special/’
OLD
Corlo Special ‘OLD' whisky
C32'16
Matchless performance!
That's why mors tons arehauled and
more people ride—the world over-on
Goodyear Tyres than on any other make!
m
Here are the famous super-stamina Good-
year work tyres each one designed for the
best performance on a particular job.
cr
RIB
ALL SERVICE
HI-MILER
RIB
HI-MILER
ALL-WEATHER
airwheel
The actual over-the-road performance records
of truck and bus operators, the world over,
prove that Goodyear Truck and Bus Tyres are
the world's finest. They stand up better on
the hardest jobs give longest tyre life-
lowest cost per mile. Each Goodyear Hi-Miler
Truck and Bus Tyre is built from finest natural
rubber and tough, heat-resisting Rayon cord
—to give maximum performance. Get the
world's finest tyres Goodyear Hi-Milers
from your Goodyear Dealer.
GOOD
5*
YEAR
TRUCK & BUS TYRES
IOALV-If^
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP.
The No. I Drink
for jvise men
“Teachers are required to have the
patience of Job, the courage of
Daniel and the wisdom of Solomon —
all for a beggar’s pay.”— Labor Com-
moner George Thomas.
“Wanted, waitress, every night for
dinner.” — Suburban paper.
Only women of good taste
need apply.
•b *b *b
“He was committed on a charge
of having gone through a form of
marriage on January 4 while awfully
married.”
—Mackay (Q.) “Daily Mercury.”
These cynical linotype men!
•b *b *b
“To get a husband, the modern
girl must seek him out as relentlessly
and indefatigably as a barracuda.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
Then hand him a good line
and land him.
“Every woman always goes slightly
mad over spring hats.”
—Sydney “Sunday Herald.”
Many do their blocks com-
pletely.
•b *b *b
“What’s all this talk about wives
shaving their husbands in bed?”
—Sydney “D.T.”
Perhaps it’s just a safety
measure.
•b *b *b
“The average woman is not satis-
fied with her shortness and has to
watch how she dresses to avoid look-
ing dumpy.”
Especially if she wants to
dress in the height of fashion,
•b *b *b
“Why don’t men wake up and wear
skirts?” — Sydney “D.T.”
Great Scot, what next?
•b *b *b
“Australian women are using less
powder and face-cream.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun."
The saving is only on the sur-
face.
“Throwing pennies for luck from
the 250 ft. Clifton suspension bridge,
Bristol, has been banned as dangerous
to people walking beneath.”
“Every house in London and Paris
does tailored suits for right round the
clock.” — Women’s paper.
And doesn’t have to consider
the dial.
“It is not much use trying to
beautify our mouths.”
—Beauty article.
They’re an open - and - shut
case.
•b *b *b
“Yes, by all means give up your
chiropodist boy-friend.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
And remain footloose.
The Dominie’s Slog.
It takes the patience of a Job
To don the academic robe
And come down to the mental
level
Of every little imp and devil
Who’s more concerned with
boys’ reactions
To prods with pins than vulgar
fractions:
And any pedagogue requires
All Daniel’s courage, who
aspires
To hold the modern adolescent
Imbued with fun and
effervescent;
But these great qualities alone
Will hardly help him hold his
own
Though he be wise as Solomon,
For what he needs to carry on.
And lacking which his work is
vain —
Is just a little touch of Cain.
D.H.E.
The Swy and Wherefore.
In any land excepting one
When missiles of this sort are
flying
One must use care, for there’s
no fun
For most in prematurely dying.
And falling objects need not be
Of lethal nature, or be whoppers
In size, to kill, for rare is he
Who bears unharmed a rain of
coppers.
Yet though the Bristol folk may
shy
At dropping coins and rightly
dread them,
Out here I’m sure the passers-by
All unperturbed would calmly
head them.
BERT.
Very Accommodating.
The High British Trade
Official looked with mild surprise
at the crowd of flat-faced,
humorless - looking foreigners
who had piled out of a fleet of
cars, formed into a squad and
at a barked order in Russian
“Blast these rubber hawsers !”
had marched to his office. There
they were halted; the man who
had given the order strode up
to the clicked his heels
with great precision, bowed
stiffly and presented a card.
The H.8.T.0. glanced at it,
then held out his hand. “De-
lighted to meet you, Mr.
Snoopov. As the chief collecti-
vised spanner-tester to the Mos-
cow Ministry of Housing you
are most welcome. As a buyer
of our spanners you are, of
course, entitled not only to see
how the spanners are made here
but everything else on which a
spanner could conceivably be
used. By the way, you seem to
have quite a number of men
just to look at some shifting-
spanners, don’t you?”
The Russian frowned. “I
think we are entitled to bring as
many as we like,” he said arro-
gantly.
The H.8.T.0. held up his
hand. “Oh, quite, quite,” he
said apologetically. “But it just
struck me”
“It was necessary to have a
large number,” the Russian
went on. “Not only have we
to inspect right-handed spanners
but left-handed ones; these in
turn we divide into long-handled
and short-handled, large and
small, heavy and light, those
that have to be pushed to
tighten nuts and those that have
to be pulled. Without a large
staff we couldn’t manage.” -
“Oh, it’s quite all right,” put
in the H.8.T.0. “Now, the only
thing we ask is that you will
sign Form two four one three.
Just a formality, you know. It’s
an affidavit that you undertake
not to disclose anything of a
military nature that you may
see to the military authorities of
your own country. Your Hous-
ing Ministry is not a military
organisation, we know, so there
are no complications.”
Colonel-General Snoopov, of
the Soviet High Command,
clicked his heels, then looked at
the Englishman with a frown.
“I take great exception to this
suspicion,” he said. “You Eng-
lish would do better to cultivate
a more friendly, frank ap-
proach, as we Russians do.
“I’m extremely sorry,” said
the H.8.T.0. hastily. “There
was really no offence meant. It’s
just that we have so much form-
filling here that you have been
caught up in it. If you don’t
want to sign it we won’t press
the matter. Now, where would
you like to see the spanners
being used, Mr. Snoopov?”
“We find,” said the Russian,
“that if any spanner we make
can stand up to work on a tank
it is as heavy a test as it can
get. I think one of your tank-
factories would be the most
satisfactory place to make our
test.”
“Certainly. Nothing could be
fairer or more reasonable. Our
latest tank, of course?”
“Naturally. We wish to make
certain the spanners are the very
latest pattern, which, of course,
they’d have to be to be used on
the latest tank.”
“Quite. Sorry we can’t show
you the very latest —that’s still
in the blueprint stage ; still, I see
no reason why you shouldn’t be
allowed to see that. It would
give you, perhaps, a good idea
of the tensile strength of the
nuts these spanners you are
buying are capable of shifting.
We wouldn’t show you if you
were connected with youf mili-
tary fellows, you know, but as
peaceful collectivised Housing
Ministry officials you are, of
course, beyond all suspicion.”
Ten minutes later the hundred
or so members of the Soviet
Mil ita r y Intelligence were
swarming over the tank-factory.
making notes, taking photo-
graphs and thoroughly inspect-
ing tanks in all stages of tank-
production.
While they were thus engaged
the factory manager came up to
the H.8.T.0.
“I say,” he said, “Do you
think it right that these Russkis
should be allowed the run of the
place? Security and all that, you
know.”
The H.8.T.0. turned a dis-
approving eye on him. “My
dear chappie,” he said, “these
fellers are quite harmless—they
have nothing to do with the
military johnnies. And anyway,
how could they find out any-
thing if they wanted to? Our
workmen can’t talk to them in
Russian if they were asked
questions.”
After the Soviet team had
gleaned all the information
they wanted the H.8.T.0. saw
them to the gate, giving the
leader a promise that he’d do
his best to let them look over
the latest atom-smashing plant if
they thought the spanners they
were buying were likely to be
needed for use on a similar
Soviet project, provided it were
only for peaceful purposes.
“Well,” he said, as the bogus
collectivised s p a n n e r-tester
snapped an order in Russian to
his assembled compatriots to
disperse to the waiting fleet of
cars, “I suppose, Mr. Snoopov,
that your people will reciprocate
some day and allow a few of
our trade officials to see over
one of your crab-meat canning
factories —we buy some of that
from you, you know,”
Colonel-General Snoopov
scowled. “You must think we’re
insane,” he said, “to let spies for
the warmongering plutocracies,
who, as all the world knows, are
plotting to wage war against the
peace-loving new democracies,
look over our factories and then
come back here and use the in-
formation you’ve ferreted, out
against us! ”
Bo.


THE "OSCEH" FISHERMAN'S KNIFE
Made from high-grade carbon
steel, every blade individually
tempered and ground. Practically
indestructible, with interlocking
shield, tang and blade.
PRICE
10/6 each
m
P'
Every knife guaran-
teed. Leather sheath
1/9 extra.
CRAIG & AITKEN PTY. LTD. For all fishing supplies .
654 George Street, Sydney. M 6261
Catalogue post free on request.
Right round the dock at your service
No matter whether you land at noon or take-off at
midnight, you can rely on the unfailing readiness and
efficiency of the B.P. Aviation Service, available at
airports all over the world including those of Melbourne
and Sydney. Qantas Empire Airways and Trans-
Australia Air Lines are amongst the many national
airlines regularly refuelled by this great service, which
has behind it the global resources and reputation of the
Anglo-lranian Oil Company, Ltd.
AVIATION
JR
SERVICE
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., MELBOURNE
Telegraphic Address '‘AIRBEEFEE” Melbourne.
______________ 074/9515
V
lVv*
*****
s>*
*»■
GO
0
&
t*£
■XAj
S
8S
t
THIS
E SAVING
ONEY SAVING
NVENIENCE
Paying accounts by cheque is the modem, safe
way to handle money. In the office or in the
home, a Commonwealth Bank Cheque account
is more than a convenience. It saves you time,
energy and money. No need to go from place to place
paying bills in person, when you can so easily pay by
cheque. „ ,
Paying by cheque adds to your prestige. It shows you
dearly what you have spent and where. It gives
evidence of payment in case of lost receipts.
A Commonwealth Bank Cheque account is easy to
open, simple to use. Open one to-day at any Branch.
Friendly and practical advice on banking or financial
matters is available to you in addition to the following
services:—
£-2wSS
PRIMARY PRODUCTION, ETC.
Commonwealtblai oflustralia.
THE BANK
(§>
đ
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT (
AND it's
RED MILL RUM.
Good racing and choice spring
weather made for a pleasant after-
noon at Canterbury on Saturday,
though it yielded comparatively little
in the way of pointers to the major
turf events of the spring. French
Cavalier’s comfortable victory in the
Canterbury Guineas led to his being
hailed as the Derby winner and
installed, accordingly, at the head of
bookmakers’ charts, but it should be
keot in mind that the Canterbury
Guineas has, in the past, proved
anything but a reliable guide to
Derby prospects; only one horse has
landed the double.
The 9-furlongs journey at Canter-
bury is not much of a staying test,
and whatever qualifications it may
have in that direction were largely
cancelled by the muddling pace at
which Saturday’s race was run.
French Cavalier Was in front or
sharing the lead pretty well all the
way and he “outstayed” them at
the finish. The filly Ragazza ran
the same type of race as the winner,
but was beaten in all departments;
nevertheless, a fairish performance.
At intervals she had disputed the
lead with French Cavalier, and she
threw out a strong challenge at the
distance, but was safely held.
Karangi made up a lot of ground
in the straight to take third money—
a performance which in some ways
suggested a greater promise of
staying ability than the efforts of the
pair who beat him home,
A brown colt by Genetout from
Night of Love, French Cavalier is
trained by McCarten for Adolph
Basser. Last year Basser won the
Canterbury Guineas with his very
good colt Delta, who went on to win
the Victoria Derby after being nar-
rowly beaten in the A.J.C. classic.
Naturally, Basser is very hopeful of
going one better this year by winning
the £lO,OOO A.J.C. Derby as well
with French Cavalier, but as we recall
it, Delta’s Guineas victory was vastly
more impressive than French Cava-
lier’s. As noted here at the time,
Delta was near the tail of the field
early, and won with a brilliant finish-
ing burst after being still well back
at the turn. More Derbies are won
in that fashion than by the go-to-
whoa merchants.
Aside from the Guineas the only
race of real significance on Saturday
was the 6-furlongs Canterbury Stakes,
which saw San Domenico notch up
another very easy win—his fourth in
a row and 13th in all. The only
surprising feature of San Domenicos
win was his starting price of 6 to 4
on and the confidence with which
one or two others were backed to
beat him. On revealed form it should
have been 10 to 1 bar one, with San
Domenico 10 to 1 on.
The briefly-speedy Lady Pirouette
led them along briskly to the half-
mile, but when the favorite began to
put in his big, easy-looking strides
he left ’em for dead. The veteran
Hava Chat finished on pretty stoutly
to take second money ahead of Dyna-
mite. Hava Chat may be a shade
long in the tooth and short in class
to merit even rough consideration
for the Epsom, but something in the
nature of a mile Welter should suit
him well. On the other hand Dyna-
mite’s effort did suggest an Epsom
chance, particularly as he looked
considerably in need of the run.
# * * *
It seemed probable that the last
living creatures to have breathed the
air that whistled through the stands
at Caulfield on Saturday had been
penguins, and the breeze had not
warmed up appreciably en route.
However, if the weather was a frost
the racing was compensatingly good,
though punters’ fortunes fluctuated
violently from one extreme to the
other. Three of the six winners were
hot favorites; the others started at
20 to 1, 33 to 1 and 80 to 1.
For the second outing of her spring
campaign the crack filly True Course
was stacked up against Comic Court
in the 9-furlongs w.-f.-a. Memsie
Stakes, and, while beaten decisively,
the youngster acquitted herself toler-
ably well. There seemed at no stage
to be much danger of Comic Court
losing, and at the finish he had three
lengths to spare from the filly. True
Course finished on nicely to beat the
rest, among whom were fairish older
horses in Iron Duke, Patron and
Noble Prince.
Three-year-olds provided the other
winning favorites of the day, Trust
Me (W. Williamson) winning the
Glen Eira Handicap for fillies while
Alister (R. Hutchinson) downed the
colts and geldings in the mile
Warriston Handicap. Mentioned here
a few weeks back as a coming win-
ner, the Whirlaway colt Alister moved
sharply into Derby calculations with
his clear-cut victory over Londonderry
and Lucky Mascot. Trust Me won
equally well, having a couple of
lengths to spare from Kinder Guide
and Valley Girl, who were the only
others in any demand.
Amidst the winning favorites the
first of the results which restored
bookmakers’ faith in equine nature
was the success of the Kinderscout
gelding Voussoir (N. Powell) in the
12-furlongs Doona Handicap. Vous-
soir started at 20 to 1, and downed
“And on my right—Gorgeous Gus!”
warm favorite Binnia Gift by a neck.
The bookies were subsequently com-
pletely mollified when Trumps (H.
McCloud), at 80 to 1, aced Clement
and Photon in the Heatherlie Handi-
cap (9f.) and Armentier, despite senti-
mental support from Old Diggers,
went out at 33 to 1 to down Regular
Port and Pennali in the Whittier
Handicap.
* * * *
Denali’s Epsom victory last year
was prefaced by a good win in the
S.T.C.’s Winter Handicap. Foul
weather conditions this year prevented
connections from getting the grey fit
in time for the Winter Handicap,
but he ran an equally good Epsom
trial by winning the traditional
Cameron Handicap (7f.) at Newcastle
last week. It was only his second
outing after a long spell, and he did
a grand job. Carting a steadier of
9.5, Denali was repeatedly checked in
the running, and eventually had to
fairly bullock his way through the
proverbial wall of horses to win by
two lengths. He drops to 9st. for
the Epsom, and is good enough to
win with that weight. Second leg of
the coalfields double, the Newcastle
Cup, was won by Conductor —quite
a fair Metrop. trial.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances): —
Novice: Keeborough, 1; Bonfire,
2; Wonderman, 3. Three- and Four-
year-old: Dona Marcheta, 1; Quarter
Deck, 2; Pyramid, 3. High weight:
Wiranya, 1; Apex, 2; Sodium, 3.
Tramway Handicap: Crag Son, 1;
Grey Boots, 2; Persist, 3. Chelms-
ford Stakes: Delta, 1; Vagabond, 2 ;
Benvolo, 3. Spring Handicap: Snow-
stream, 1; Buonarroti Boy, 2; High
Spirits, 3. Welter: Silverjax, 1;
Humming Top, 2; Bold Duke, 3.
* * * *
A glance back over the history of
the Davis Cup encourages the view
that, having now won the Cup with
a couple of youngsters like Sedgman
and McGregor, Australia is likely to
hold it for some years. Generally,
past winners have retained the Cup
for long stretches at a time. The
United States, whose team included
the donor of the Cup, Dwight Davis,
won the first playing in 1900, were
not challenged in 1901, and withstood
the challenge in 1902. * British Isles
took the trophy in 1903 and held it
till Australasia wrested it from them
in 1907. Australasia then held it
until British Isles regained it in 1912.
The following year the Cup went
back to America, but was won again
by Australasia in 1914, held through
the war years, and successfully de-
fended in 1919. Then, in 1920,
U.S.A. recaptured the Cup, and did
not surrender it until a powerful
French team came to light in 1927
and held the Cup for the following
six years. France lost to Great
Britain in 1933, and the trophy stayed
in England until the Americans won
it again in 1937, held it in 1938,
and lost it to Australia in 1939.
Once again the Cup stayed in Aus-
tralia through the years of a World
War. At the post-war revival of Davis
Cup tennis America retook the
trophy in Melbourne in 1946, and
withstood our challenges until the
victory of Hopman’s team this year.
One little oddity of Australia’s
Davis Cup history is that, while our
winning record extends from 1907 to
1950, two men can say that between
them they have played in every suc-
cessful Cup team. Norman Brookes
was in every team that won for Aus-
tralasia and John Bromwich in the
two teams that have won for Aus-
tralia.
Although it had to do some rather
undignified scratching around and
withstand a barrage of criticism and
propaganda, the M.C.C. stuck reso-
lutely to its principal of “amateurs
only” for the berth of England’s
skipper. Now, however, they have
appointed Denis Compton vice-cap-
tain. Compton is the first professional
to be accorded the honor, and it may
be the thin end of the wedge.
* * * *
“Pass-it”: At Newcastle on Satur-
day the British Isles Rugby Union
team suffered its only defeat of the
Australian tour when it went down
to N.S.W., 12-17, after leading 12-6
soon after half-time. The N.S.W.
backs, realising the futility of their
own attack, stood up in close defence,
with a view to upsetting the smooth-
ness of their opponents’ play and
forcing them into errors. This meant
that most of the N.S.W. attack would
have to go through the forwards.
The tactics proved successful; the
tourists’ backs were bustled into
errors and their pack wilted under
the bulldozing attack of the big
N.S.W. forwards. Although the
match did nothing to rehabilitate the
prestige of our back play, the win
will no doubt restore to our football
some of the confidence lost in the
earlier matches against the visitors.
The semi-finals in the Sydney grade
competition resulted in wins for
Easts and Gordon. Gordon beat
Manly, 3-nil, in a disappointing
match. Although windy conditions
were not conducive to open football,
neither side showed much direction
or purpose in its attacking move-
ments, with the result that the only
try of the match was scored by Gor-
don breakaway A. Dennett, who
followed up fast to dive on the ball
after a loose scrimmage on the
Manly line. In the other match Easts
had a convincing win over Norths,
19-9. This now means that Norths
are out of it and that Easts will play
Manly in the final next Saturday for
the right to meet Gordon in the
grand-final the following week.
* * * *
Melbourne had a wet and windy
day for the first V.F.L. semi-final at
M.C.G., and about 50,000 turned out
to watch it, most of them certain
that Melbourne would overrun Gee-
long. The Demons had the wind in
the first quarter, but the Geelong
backs developed a rooted objection to
letting Melbourne score. The quarter
was nearly over before Melbourne
slammed a couple through, and it
was 2.2-1.1 for Melbourne at the
change. Mud and water killed the
game as a spectacle from then on.
Geelong’s ruck and backs dominated
Melbourne, and Geelong’s forwards
began to score in a game that was
mostly a scramble, with the umpire
trying to keep the peace. At half-
time it was Geelong 4.5 to 3.2, and
from there on both the ground and
Geelong’s pace put Melbourne out
of the finals, the seasiders exactly
doubling Melbourne’s score at the
finish—l3.lo to 6.8 (88 to 44). It’s
Essendon and North Melbourne next
Saturday, Geelong to meet the loser
thereof to see who plays who in the
“grand final.”
* * * ♦
A few weeks back Chiltern played
Springhurst Aussie Rules in north-
east Victoria and scored 47 goals 15
behinds (297 points) to 2.2 (14), the
captain, G. O’Neill, kicking 24 goals.
It set Albury “Border Morning Mail”
burrowing into records, and it came
up with the prize Aussie Rules wins:
63.33 by St. Virgil’s College (Tas.)
against Friends’ College (1.3) in
1938; 58.44 by Brunswick Seconds
against Yarraville’s 2.2 in 1941; and
Port Melbourne’s 43.29 against
Sandringham’s 7.9 the same year.
The game is usually played in four
quarters of 20, 20, 25 and 25 minutes,
so that such scores mean a goal or
more every two minutes—hard sled-
ding for goal- and field-umpires.


'f'henovis” Worm Remedy
inching time »
Vyftovis
f
/<//
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
d
ď
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-8191
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
griader for shearing>shed work.
V
40z., Boz., 16(Sz., 1 gallon sizes ... Hardware and general stores-
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit
and Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activity-
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or 1/2| posted fr onl
Bulletin Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Floods and Calcium.
“Agric”: Injection into the
jugular vein of calcium boro-
gluconate (B. 30/8/’5O) has had
splendid results in the Pittsworth
and Brookstead districts of the
Darling Downs, where fat-lamb
mothers were suffering from
calcium deficiency following
heavy rains and river flooding.
Losses of lambs and lamb
mothers from flooding have
been fairly heavy on the Downs,
though nothing to those else-
where. One property lost 500
ewes, and a number of others
lost between 200 and 300. There
have also been fairly heavy losses
of lambing ewes due to calcium
deficiency and the boggy
ground and constant rain pre-
venting grazing of cultivated
crops.
The flood in the Condamine
was the highest since 1893, and
in places it reached the peak
points of that flood, causing
heavy damage to fencing.
Losses of lambs born before the
flood are estimated as high as
90 per cent., but fortunately
lambing was later than usual
this year, and the deaths did
not represent a big percentage of
the 1950 drop.
Lamb is becoming a luxury in
Queensland, with fat-lambs sell-
ing at the Cannon Hill sales for
as high as 24d. a pound for the
carcass only, and the losses
caused by the abnormally wet
season will probably make prices
rise even higher.
Dangerous Sprays.
“Beau Forte”; Most chemi-
cals used in fruit-sprays are
poisonous to humans and ani-
mals as well as to the insects
or fungi against which they are
directed.
Some of the newest insecti-
cides, including D.N.C., D.D.T.,
H.E.T.P. and E 605, may be ab-
sorbed into the system through
the skin through contact with
bare hands. When transferring
these materials from the con-
tainers to the spray gloves
should be used.
H.E.T.P. and E 605 or para-
thion are organic phosphorus
compounds, which are particu-
larly toxic to humans, and care
should be taken by spray-
operators to avoid inhaling
spray-drift.
Tar distillate has a burning
effect on exposed skin. This
may be countered by applying
lanoline or castor-oil to the face
and hands before spraying.
Operators should not smoke
or roll cigarettes when spray-
ing. Smoking may increase pos-
sible ill-effects of E 605 or nico-
tine sulphate. The hands and
face should be thoroughly
washed before meals.
Sugar-beet for Stock.
“Sundowner”: Sugar-beet is
of great value for winter stock-
feeding and does best if sown
on land which has carried a
grass crop, though it will respond
well if it follows swedes, peas
or other plants which add nitro-
gen to the soil.
Sugar-beet is a free rooter,
and does best in deep, well-
drained, fertile soil. Skim-plough
early and follow up with a
deeper ploughing in August.
Rolling immediately before sow-
ing will make a firm seedbed
and will tend to bring moisture
to the surface for swift germina-
tion.
September and October are the
months to sow, when the land is
moist and warm. Sow 41b, to
51b. of seed per acre, though in
a particularly moist bed 31b. will
give good results. Allow 18in.
to 21 in. between rows for inter-
cultivation. Sow iin. to lin.
deep and roll after drilling.
Abundant fertiliser is needed
—scwt. to lOcwt. of carbonate
of lime after ploughing, 4cwt. of
super, 2cwt. of blood-and-bone
and lewt. of sulphate of am-
monia at seeding. In districts
where growth is aided by potash
add 501 b. of muriate of potash
to the mixture. Keep weeds
down and thin the plants to 9in.
apart.
This beet can be fed to stock
at all stages of growth. There
is no need to harvest it immedi-
ately. Roots can be left in the
ground and dug as required.
Soil Misuse.
“Longjon”: J. L. Green,
N.S.W. agronomist, who
travelled thousands of miles of
N.S.W. recently judging a
R.A.S. farm-and-fodder compe-
tition, is plainly worried about
the amount of land misuse he
saw. Whenever he spoke at
field days he issued grave warn-
ings on the dangers of soil-
erosion and depletion of soil-
fertility. Green told farmers
at Nowra that if they continue
as they have done the outlook
will be serious. The erosion
devastation he had seen during
the past few months was greater
than he had ever imagined to
be possible. It was useless to
say the havoc done to farms
was “God’s work.” Farmers
have been grinding out of the
land all they could. Green was
emphatic that erosion and loss
of soil-fertility were increasing.
Kikuyu Checks Erosion.
“He Ne”: Kikuyu-grass is
recommended by the Taree
(N.S.W.) agronomist, J. M. Pitt,
to check erosion of stream-
banks by flooding. He urges
that kikuyu-grass roots be
planted thickly as soon as pos-
sible. Kikuyu is now being used
extensively in irrigated areas for
bank protection. The common
reed is also recommended, as it
thrives in both brackish and
fresh-water streams. Along the
Manning River many instances
of soil-reclamation and erosion-
check can be credited to reeds.
Transplanting.
“Mr.”: Use only well-
developed seedlings and plant in
the cool of evening. Keep as
much soil on the roots as pos-
sible and, for convenience.
“There now , Dave! It didn't hurt a bit!"
arrange tall seedlings such as
cabbage, cauli. and onion in a
bundle so that the bases of their
stems are level; then with one
cut trim their roots to a uni-
form length.
Correct depth is important;
too-deep or too-shallow planting
is equally undesirable. Plant so
that the stem of the lowest leaf
is at ground-level. After plant-
ing, firm the soil and water with
a solution of ioz. of sulphate of
ammonia or nitrate of soda and
loz. of super, to the gallon of
water. In hot weather shelter
the transplants.
Care of the Hoof.
“M.”: It should begin with
the foal. Keep the hoof even in
length so that one side does not
grow longer than the other;
such unevenness may cause mal-
formation of the limb. Shape
of the hoof and quality of the
horn differ according to climate
and soil. Horses with strong
hooves and employed on soft
ground can be worked without
shoes, but their feet need ex-
amining regularly and the wear-
ing surface kept level with a
farrier’s-rasp.
Round-off the sharp edges of
the wall to prevent fragments of
the horn breaking away, but
never interfere with the frog,
unless to remove foreign
material. Paring of the sole and
bars of the heel is taboo. If
natural growth of the foot is
not sufficient to keep pace with
wear, shoe the horse.
Useful for Farms.
“Metax”: Whitworth dies,
size |in. and |in., with operating
stocks, are worth adding to the
farm tool-kit. If nuts and plain
rod are on hand they make one
independent of the shortage of
bolts of all lengths because a
rod screwed to take a nut each
end .can be used. These two
sizes will cover a large part of
the usual farm needs.
The |in. size is used for light
work such as bolting gates to-
gether, while the |in. is suitable
for work as heavy as bolting
posts to dummies.
Rod to be threaded should be
held firmly in the vice. To cut
a clean thread the end should be
filed to a short taper for at least
|in., and the part to be threaded
should be rough-filed, cleaned
of rust, grit, etc., and tested that
it is not oversize. It is safer not
to try to get down to full depth
on the first cut. Use plenty of
oil and take only about one-
eighth of a turn at a time. It is
a good plan to ease back a little
before making the next turn.
The Algaroba-tree.
“P.M.K.”: The algaroba (B.
11/1 / ’5O) thrives on bore-water,
regenerates with such amazing
speed that it could become a
menace, and has prickles 3in. to
4in. long which may get caught
in the wool of sheep and feet of
horses.
On Belfield Station, Winton
(n.-w. Q.), they are growing
wild, and I have pulled out
spikes from horses’ feet on
numerous occasions. In Winton
township they were planted
along several streets and have
now become a curse, causing
frequent tyre-punctures.
The seeds from these trees
have been washed down along a
creek that passes'by Winton, and
there is now an impassable
scrub of algaroba there.
The algaroba has many good
points, like drought resistance,
stock-feed, shade, quick re-
generation, tolerance to bore
water and so forth. But it would
be wise to look for another tree,
such as the carob-bean.
“C.8.D.”: Though the alga-
roba has deservedly been recom-
mended for dry areas inland be-
cause it gives good shade, grows
reasonably easily and provides
good feed, like many introduc-
tions it can get out of control
and become a menace.
At Winton (Q.) within about
the last 10 years it has got into
the channels of the Western
River, where it is becoming a
dense and almost impenetrable
scrub. The record flood at
Winton on March 10 does not
seem to have been due to a
record volume of water passing
that day, but to the water being
held back by algaroba scrub.
If the algarobas reach the
Diamantina country it will be
converted to a useless scrub
waste. The position should be
examined by experts and means
of control devised.
Be Kind to Her.
“Rooster”: Learn these
maxims in regard to the care of
the dairy cow: (a) She should
always be treated with kind-
ness ; (b) never hustle and
bustle her about the paddocks
or bails; (c) never allow a dog
to chase her; ( d) never ill-treat
her by kicking or hitting; (?)
train her in regularity and
cleanliness.
Most farmers have the bene-
fit of modern machinery to
speed-up the production, but it
is in these treatment rules that
they fall down. A cow is one
of the most excitable of ani-
mals, and once made nervous
there’s not a pair of hands or a
machine that will get the milk
from her.
Judges’ Mistake.
“C.S.”: A report of a panel
of Smithfield (London) judges
on a N.Z. fat-lamb competition
was circularised by the N.Z.
Meat Producers’ Board as fol-
lows :
The judges unanimously agree that
; the rubber-ring method of castration
is not one to be encouraged. This,
where used, was a very bad feature
of the show, and, unfortunately,
obvious. ' This type of castration
invariably produces carcasses with a
heavy scrag (putting weight where it
is not wanted), muscular forequarters
and closer-textured flesh. The terms
of reference for judging lambs are
their suitability for the United King-
dom trade, and we say, without hesi-
tation, that this form of castration
is not one which will improve the
appeal of New Zealand lamb.
The Elastrator people,
naturally concerned about this,
obtained the views of experts,
including A. S. Brassington and
H. Mclvor, N.Z. meat-graders,
W. E. Henschke, Adelaide chief
export grader. Dr. J. F. Wilson,
University of California (who
made tests there and in Oregon,
Montana, Idaho and Utah on
lambs and calves), the secretary
(Vogther) of N.Z. Meat Pro-
ducers’ Board and Dr. C. K.
McMeekan, Ruakwa Research
Station (N.Z.), all of whom
question the judges’ findings
and are positive that the rubber-
ring method of castration is
satisfactory and doesn’t produce
the results alleged by the Smith-
field men.
Seedlings.
“Bill Ding”: As soon as the
first rains fall nurserymen put
out their seedlings and eager
gardeners buy them, only to
find that the lower- or sub-soil
has not the moisture to sustain
the frail plants and the expendi-
ture goes for nothing.
The trials are repeated, more
and more seedlings are bought,


MODERN
SANITATION
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
(Complete self-contained sanitary
system.)
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS (
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
¥77
ANY HANDYMAN CAN
INSTAL IT
Sewage material Is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that
runs away into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY-, LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 82 pears.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND 1 : Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
•fheWof/ds
rnmcms
RUM
Birnu
00*
S'
m:
p
SPARKPLUGS
WORIDS
m
\0
m
i i
TRADE MARK
FACTORIES: FELTH AM, ENG.;
TOLEDO, U.S.A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
Ancestors
of an
Industry
\
3?
Sir William Crookes is best known to the lay-
man for his startling prophecy, in 1898, that exhaustion of
the Chilean nitrate deposits would lead to world starvation
unless alternative sources of nitrogen compounds were dis-
covered. Amongst scientists he is recognised as one of the
fathers of spectroscopy —the analysis of light into its com-
ponent wavelengths. This has many important applications,
especially in industry, where it enables routine tests to be
made with great speed and accuracy. Crookes also discovered
thallium, an element resembling lead, and invented the Crookes
Tube which was the forerunner of the modern X-ray tube.
A Londoner, Crookes was born in 1832, and educated at
Chippenham Grammar School in Wiltshire. He studied at
the Royal College of Chemistry and was later employed in
the meteorological department of the Raddiffe Observatory,
Oxford. Returning to London in 1856, he started publication
of "The Chemical News,” a journal of which he remained
editor-proprietor for nearly half a century. He was frequently
consulted by the Government on scientific matters, and at
various times served as President of the
Royal Society, the British Association,
and the Institution of Electrical Engineers.
He was knighted in 1897, and was one
of the original members of the Order of
Merit.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
— 1 ■ i mi IL-71-I4—
STRONGER!
unbreakable
EUSTBATOR
(REGD. TRADE MARK)
Th*
for marking iambs & calves
Obtainable from Station Suppliers, Woolbrokers,
Chemists and Stores. A product of ELASTRATOR
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
ELS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
F ' 1 "T 4
■ :
M
■. ■■ «* ■' '"' s
m
m
.> ■'
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd
Reg'd Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"L YS AG HI'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC,
and it is not until the grounds
are drenched that something
worth while is achieved. This
is' particularly the case with
housing schemes. Put, for the
most part, on virgin land, often
with thickets of ancient scrub
and trees but lacking the humus
which will first protect young
plants and then sustain them,
the hopeful new householder
finds that it is mostly labor in
vain to cultivate a flower or
vegetable garden until after one
or two years’ endeavors. The
nurseryman has picked up quite
a tidy sum for the wasted seed-
lings. All for the want of good
soil preparation.
A Wild Wattle.
“Weedexp”: He who asked
(B. 14/6/’5O) if acacias are suit-
able for growing in Sydney
coastal areas needs to be care-
ful that he does not grow the
wattle known as Acacia arabica.
This, which grows quickly, ulti-
mately makes a very good shade-
tree and is of some value as a
fodder, has been grown at Rock-
hampton and at Winton and
various inland places in Queens-
land, and has now become a
serious pest.
After heavy rains seedlings
have appeared in such profusion
that impenetrable thickets have
been formed, watercourses sub-
stantially blocked, and councils
are ordering its eradication. Like
the other importation, Algaroba,
it should not be grown because
of the possibility of its becom-
ing a serious pest.
Feeding Queensland Cows.
“Bill C.”: Improved pastures,
soil improvement by topdressing
with fertilisers, controlled stock-
ing, encouragement of legumes
in the pastures and conservation
of fodder are all needed to en-
sure plenty of protein in the
milking-cow’s diet.
Most natural grasses have a
low protein content even when
in the flush of growth. The best
grasses for protein are prairie,
African star, Pas pal um dilata-
tion, blue couch, common couch,
kikuyu and Rhodes. Para-grass
is also a splendid protein grass,
but succeeds only on marshy
land. Prairie - grass is best
known in cool districts of
Queensland, where the soil is
very good. Paspalum is a fine
grass for black soil containing
ample moisture. The couches
are fond of similar country, but
will succeed on lighter soils.
Rhodes and kikuyu are
drought-resistant, and will give
a good body of feed and cover
where other grasses would
perish.
None of these grasses will re-
tain much protein if allowed to
reach maturity. They should be
grazed in sections, so that as
far as possible the grasses are
always young and making
growth.
Under such grazing the pas-
tures should contain a good deal
of protein, provided that the
land under grass is not allowed
to become impoverished through
lack of suitable fertiliser.
Closely-grazed pastures will
often allow pasture legumes to
grow, and such plants retain
their protein content when
mature. Burr medic is a good
legume, and Korean clover is
making some headway in parts
of S.Q. Lucerne needs no prais-
ing, but it fails in competition
with very strong-growing grasses.
On the N.Q. coast the two estab-
lished legumes Townsville
lucerne and Mimosa pudica—
are worth encouraging.
For production of legume-
hay or silage material, members
of the cowpea family are easily
grown in summer on the Queens-
land coast. Molasses should be
applied to cowpeas before they
are ensiled, when they will not
only keep well but will provide
good protein feed for cattle
during the winter.
Hints for the Farm.
“W. Court”: A ‘few green-
manuring legumes are helping to
keep up the fertility of Queens-
land coastal farmlands. These
include the Phaley bean, rattle-
,pod and sensitive plant. These
plants have a pronounced liking
for shallow, impoverished soils,
possibly because ordinary weeds
and grasses cannot compete with
them there.
“Big Billy”: Garden stakes
and labels will last several years
if carefully used. In winter treat
the stakes with creosote and
renew the names on labels.
Print the latter with a soft pencil
on a background of white wet
paint.
“Rooster”; Heifer calves are
sometimes born with more than
four teats, and the extra ones
should be cut off with sharp
sterilised scissors or a sterilised
razor - blade. Paint wound
immediately with weak iodine.
Operate at a few weeks old.
With older animals it may be
necessary to draw the wound
edges together and stitch them.
“Kun”: Molasses is a great
tonic for poultry. Feed it in a
wet mash, using molasses at not
less than 5 p.c. nor more than
7 p.c. by weight of dry mash.
Too little is ineffective: too
much scours. It makes healthier,
heavier layers with a shorter
moulting season.
“Beau Forte”: Caking of fer-
tilisers during storage can be
overcome under good conditions
and reduced under bad ones by
adding 3 per cent, of peat or
sawdust to the mixture. Peat
has been widely used for horti-
cultural purposes, while saw-
dust, according to tests, would,
in the quantity mentioned, have
no adverse effect on plants or
soil.
“Outback”; Noticing that
cattle grazing on row-cultivated
lucerne were seeding an adjoin-
ing grass paddock, George
Bassingthwaighte, Woodlands,
Greenmount (Q.), decided to
attempt to establish lucerne in
grazing paddocks without
ploughing. He mowed a 70-acre
paddock and broadcast lib. of
lucerne per acre, using the grass
as cover for the seed. A fenced-
off area has shown that lucerne
can be established by this pro-
cedure, and C.5.1.R.0. agros-
tologists are closely watching
the experiment.
“K.T.”: Probably the best
time to give fowls green-feed is
following their grain-feed. If the
flocks are run on free range
grain should be fed in the morn-
ing and mash in the afternoon.
However, if the birds are in-
tensively kept exactly the oppo-
site should be done.


The name is_
The whisky Is.
(D c Callum ? s
Scots UJhisky
«s«|i ftUKQM (founteb ibot) t r* 6*o
Meeiinq
an old friend
is always a
pleasurable
/
occasion .
BABCOCK-DETROIT
SPREADER STOKER
***os TO****
■
TOP—Side view of Babcock-Detrolt
BotoStoker with power dumping
grate.
BOTTOM—Sectional view of Bab>
cock-Detrolt BotoStoker.
For Medium and
Moderate Sized
Industrial Installations
The Babcock-Detroit Roto-
Stoker is supplied with
either hand or mechanically
operated dumping grate,
and is employed mainly for
medium and moderate
sized industrial installations.
1 s
This stoker has been
demonstrated as capable of
handling a very wide range
of fuels, including bitum-
inous, sub-bituminous coals
and lignites, brown coal
and mixtures of coke and
coal.
One of its main advantages is its suitability in plants
where the type or quality of coal delivered varies from
time to time.
As suppliers of all types of firing equipment, whether
for pulverised fuel, oil fuel, other mechanical types of
stokers, or any other known firing method, Babcocks
have the experience necessary to advise on the right
equipment most suitable and economical to your needs.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS - - REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agendas in all States
THE
‘“WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
• Company Accounts
• Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
đ
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet •
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
Sleep and How to
Get More of It
Does a hot drink, a snack,
or “night-cap” help? Does
reading in bed encourage
sleep or just the opposite f
How does sleep come to the
body? What is the ONE best
rule you can adopt to fight
insomnia? In September
Reader’s Digest, Robert
Goughian sweeps aside old no-
tions, nostrums and nonsense,
gives you solid, new scientific
facts about elusive sleep
and how to get more of It.
This stimulating article is
only one of 35 in September
Reader’s Digest. Get your
copy today. The world’s great-
est reading value for the
whole family at one shilling
and sixpence. All newsagents
and bookstalls.
Sores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed $ sleep. js Anti**
septic . Cuticura * 'cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio—
Cuticura Ointment. • Soap
and Talcum I’owder.
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Beady BuWjed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Price
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cu t Beady Bubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in "
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Oid WeU
Matured Pipe Mixture that is n
even better than ever. Priced
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. B • * oo^
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT
SCHOOL situated »n
Country.
excellent climate
Extensive separate
ings. Junior House sep
from the rest of the
Illustrated
application to the » urß
„ . w SU
O. A. FISHER.
He was still mentally compos-
ing his letter when Jack yelled
in his ear.
“Hold her steady!”
THE truck came to a halt,
then lurched agonisingly
into a ditch. They were
momentarily thrown off bal-
ance. Reg lost control of the
light. Jack quickly regained his
balance and raised his rifle.
“Hurry with that light, can’t
you! Back a little, see if you
can pick him out!”
Reg swept the light back,
conscious of the dog’s excited
barking and racing about in
circles. Suddenly the light fell
on the rabbit, which was fran-
tically looking for a gap in the
fence. The dog, spotting it,
raced along in pursuit.
“Get out of the flamin’ way! ”
bellowed Jack.
“Take it easy, there ! ”
cautioned Bill from the front
seat.
Reg kept the light trained on
the two animals.
“I can’t get that blasted dog
out of my sights,” screamed
Jack.
The three men yelled vile
curses at the dog, who took no
notice.
“I’ll teach the critter —no
mong’s going to spoil my night’s
shooting.”
. “You watch out for my dog! ”
yelled Bill.
“He’s asking for it!” shouted
Jack.
The rifle cracked, and Reg,
with the acrid smell of cordite
in his nostrils, drew a sharp,
alarmed breath and said:
“ ’Struth, you’ve hit his dog! ”
|N an instant Bill was out of
» the cabin and running across
the ground, twenty-five yards
away, to where the dog lay.
From the truck the two men
watched him, outlined in the
spotlight, bending over the ani-
mal. In silence they watched
him walk slowly back, the dog
in his arms. They could hear
the dog whimpering slightly and
see the wet blood on its coat.
A strained silence greeted Bill’s
arrival,
“You dirty little rat, Jack.”
“I didn’t mean to hit Blue,
honest I didn’t. Bill. I was aim-
ing straight at the rabbit —it was
an accident.”
“Like hell it was! That was
no accident. You did it de-
liberately.”
“It way, I tell you. I was aim-
ing straight at that rabbit—
wasn’t I aiming at the rabbit,
Reg?”
“Leave Reg out of it. You
was aiming at my dog. You’ve
had it in for him all night. You
did it out of spite.”
“Oh, come off it,” growled
Jack. “Get in the truck. The
dog’s not hurt bad, is it?”
“Bad enough—bullet grazed
his shoulder. He’s not bleeding
much. I s’pose he’ll live.”
“Well, what are you sore
about? Come on, get back in
the truck.”
“It don’t make no difference
whether he’s hurt bad or not.
You could have easily killed
him.”
“Oh, come on, stop acting
like a bear with a sore head.
Get back in the truck —we might
as well go home now.”
But Bill stood his ground. He
stared defiantly at Jack.
“I’m not getting back into
that truck —now or ever.”
Jack threw his rifle on to the
floor of the truck in a gesture
of annoyance.
“Say, what’s got into you.
Bill? Look, I’m sorry about
your dog. He just got in the
way, I didn’t mean to hit him,
and that’s the truth. Now get
in and we’ll go home. That dog
will need fixing up.”
“I’m going home all right,
but not with you. If you think
I’m going to ride in that rattle-
trap again you’re mistaken.”
He looked at Reg and said
quietly “Well, come on, let’s get
going.”
REG stared at his cousin,
momentarily undecided,
then got down on to the ground.
Not because he wanted to walk
six miles back to the farm but
because Bill was his cousin. Bill
was his host. Bill was a damn
fool, but he guessed he owed
some allegiance to Bill.
They began to walk toward
the fence. Reg carried the two
guns. Bill carried the dog.
Halfway oyer they heard the
engine of the truck cough and
splutter into life.
“Have you ever ridden in
such a jalopy?” grunted Bill.
Reg looked over his shoulder,
then said “I think Jack’s having
a bit of trouble, he doesn’t
seem to be moving.”
And on the wind Jack’s voice
came to them: “Hey, come back,
I’m in a ditch.”
“Put your back to the wheel,”
called back Bill.
“I have —she won’t budge.
You’ll have to give us a hand,”
“Go and chase yourself! ” Bill
shouted.
They reached the gate in the
fence.
“Oughtn’t we go back?” sug-
gested Reg. “He might be here
all night.”
“Serves him right. Come on,
here’s the road. If we’re lucky
we might strike a truck.”
THEY struck out along the
road. Bill grunted now and
then with the weight of the dog.
Reg shivered in the cold wind.
There was no sign of any
traffic.
Several minutes passed in this
fashion.
“This dog’s damned heavy,”
Bill said.
“These guns are awkward,”
said Reg. “How far do you
reckon we’ve come?”
“ ’Bout half a mile,” Bill said.
“Is that all?”
“Maybe three-quarters.”
They trudged along in silence.
“You know, I don’t reckon a
bloke would hit a dog deliber-
ately,” said Reg after a while.
“Maybe I was a bit hasty,”
agreed Bill.
“It’ll be cold out in these pad-
docks tonight, Bill.”
“Yair—it’s cold now, even.”
“’Course, Bill, I reckon you
did the right thing. I mean to
say, if a chap took a pot at my
dog I’d feel the same way. That
is, if he did take a pot at him.”
“Yair —I told him I wouldn’t
ride in his truck any more. You
heard me say that to him, didn’t
you? I told him off all right—
cripes, it’s cold.”
“I thought you and Jack were
going out to Wilson’s Ridge to-
morrow with the two Armstrong
girls?”
“Gee, that’s right—so we
were.”
“They’re pretty good sorts.
Bill.”
“I’ll say,” Bill said.
He looked over his shoulder
and said something under his
breath.
“Don’t look like we’re going
to get a lift, Reg.”
“Only five more miles,” Reg
said.
“Listen, maybe I ought to go
back and give Jack a hand. You
needn’t if you feel you oughtn’t
to. I was just thinking he might
get pneumonia or something out
all night.”
“I was thinking the same
thing,” said Reg.
THEY turned around and be-
gan walking back. Surpris-
ingly enough, they discovered
that they had only covered a
short distance since leaving the
gate. They could see the head-
lights of the car in the paddock.
Bill opened the gate and they
walked through.
“If that little rat tries to back
out of this outing with the
sheilas tomorrow after what’s
happened tonight I’ll break his
flamin’ neck,” muttered Bill as
they walked over to the truck.


Ex-Naval Men
Wanted
for 2 Years'
Service
in the R.A.N.
In view of the present inter-
national. situation, ex-naval
men, particularly ex-cKief
petty officers and ex-petty
officers of the Seaman
Branch, are invited to re-
enter for TWO YEARS’
SERVICE in the Permanent
Naval Forces.
AGE LIMIT FOR RE-ENTRY
47 YEARS
Applicants must not have
been outside the Service for
more than five years and
must have held confirmed
Able rate or above.
Men re-entering for TWO
YEARS will not become
contributors to the Defence
Forces Retirement Benefits
Fund, but will receive a
gratuity of £2O per annum,
payable on completion of a
two years’ engagement, or if
later, on discharge, supple-
mented pro rata for each
additional completed month
of service. This payment
will not be in the nature of
Deferred Pay computed on a
daily basis.
For foil details apply:
The Naval Recruiting Officer
in your Capital City.
RAN.34.8t.e0
OUR SECOND RELEASE
OF GEORGE CARSON-COOLING’S
REMARKABLE BOOK
“HERE’S A VILLAIN
A revelation of skullduggery in e<
cation..., There are chapters wh;
approach violence.” — Sydney Buuletik.
at ALL BOOKSTALLS— PRICE 15
Watson Ferguson & Company—Publish
17 JEWELLED
SWISS MASTERPIECES
with the
non-magnetic
escapement
=?
MWi/VA
WATCHES
Founded 1852
VILLIERT ★ SUISSE
LWS
“ T O O t U P ” .
YOUR MACHINE, SHOP WITH.
HIGH LEVEL ILLUMINATION
i n
' '—j
■ -V-V;
■
mmmm
■■■
-ss»
"Jp ■
i i
111
■lll
i
I
m
I
<■*
M
; I ; v
K
i*
PlPISii
REDUCE ERRORS AND LABOUR TURNOVER
WITH CLAUDE COLD CATHODE
The link between good workmen
and good work is good lighting.
That is why Claude Cold Cathode
Fluorescent Lighting is as funda-
mental to production efficiency as
are good machine tools.
Claude Cold Cathode lighting
raises the general level of illumina-
tion for the most critical seeing
operations without increasing
shop temperatures, without pro-
ducing the deep shadows and glare,
and consequent eye-fatigue, nor-
mally associated with increasing
light intensity.
The all-round advantages that
accrue are tangible—reduction of
rejects, of accidents, labour turn-
over and costs, as well as lower
costs per lumen and increased
lamp life.
Call your nearest Claude office for
all the facts, and for details of the
Claude Rental Plan, which avoids
the necessity of incurring capital
expenditure.
FLUORESCENT
LIGHTING
NEON
DISPLAYS
PORCELAIN
ENAMEL
CLAUDE
tfEON LIMITED
SYDNEY ■ NEWCASTLE - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH • HOBART - LAUNCESTON
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Mo Burdekin by
Sarah Campion.—49o9.
English collector of cigarette-cards
would like to exchange cards with
Australian collectors. (Reply direct to
W J M. Gunton, 5 Birchwood-road,
West Byfleet, Surrey, England.)
Words of Henry Lawson poem
containing the lines:
Then Ivan,' we will need you
When the nations clutch at one another s
throats. 4908.
Words of poem “Voiceless Chimes. ’
—490?. .
To buy copies of Collins s old
school readers, known as the “Green .
readers. —4910.
Information Sought.
What Australian boxing champion-
ships did Bert Spar go win? Where
and when was he born?
Bert Spargo /won the Australian
featherweight championship three
times- He beat Jimmy Hill for it m
1913, but relinquished the title a tew
years later because of inability to
make 9 stone, weight limit of feather
division. Spargo again fought as a
featherweight in 1921, however, and
won the Australian championship
from Jack Green, Bert McCarthy
beat Spargo and Spargo beat
McCarthy in 1922, then Billy Grime
took the title from Spargo in 1923.
Spargo was born in Bendigo (Vic.),
on August 7, 1895,
» * * *
How to destroy wombats ?
Cut apples, pears or carrots into
pieces U-in. or 2in. in diameter, then
cut a piece out of the bait having the
form of a pyramid or cube, and after
inserting as much strychnine as will
go on a penknife replace the piece
cut out. Green maize or any other
cereal may also be used. It should
be damped with a solution of sugar
and water and sprinkled with arsenic
or phosphorus. The baits should be
placed near the wombat holes or in
the tracks of the wombat.
* * * *
Some particulars concerning the
shining starling?
The shining starling is a spring and
summer visitor to the Northern
Territory and northern Queensland
from Papua and the Moluccas. It
is a dark-colored bird, with glossy
plumage reflecting purple and green
metallic tints and with a bright-red
eye; it is noisy and sociable in its
habits, and feeds on scrub-fruits.
Large numbers of nests are con-
structed on the branches of a single
tree, which is sometimes covered with
them. The nests arc large oval struc-
tures, with the entrances at the side,
suspended by a tapering position.
The two or three eggs are bKnsh-grey,
with reddish markings, chiefly at the
larger end.
* * * *
How did the term “bluestocking”
arise ?
As applied to a woman who has,
or affects to have, literary taste, the
term originally related to certain
evening parties given about 1750 by
the London hostesses, Mrs. Vcsey,
Mrs. Montagu and Mrs. Ord. As
women of wit and intellect they
wished to replace the universal card-
playing of the day by some more
interesting mental exercise. At these
gatherings the guests dressed very
simply, and one of them habitually
wore common blue worsted instead
of the fashionable black silk stock-
ings, The coterie was thus christened
the “Bluestocking Society.”
* * * *
What value have mushrooms as
food ?
Owing to the large amounts of
cellulose they contain and the
increased compactness produced by
cooking, they are not easily digested.
The absorption of these fungi is
-imperfect, large amounts of their
proteins (up to two-fifths) being
excreted unchanged. Their carbohy-
drates are also of uncertain nutritive
value. They have no greater worth
as foods than fresh vegetables, and,
in view of their high price, must be
looked upon as luxuries.
* * * *
Cause of the fingernails becoming
brittle and breaking off?
Fragility of the nails sometimes
occurs in gout. It is also a conse-
quence of infection of the root of
the nail by various fungi (leading to
the condition commonly named
“ringworm”) and by the organisms
common on skin surfaces. In many
persons longitudinal fissures or trans-
verse “spooning” appear on the
nails, for which no satisfactory
explanation can be found.
Brief Answers.
F.W.G.: Royal Australian Institute
of Architects, National Mutual
Building, Queen-street, Brisbane
A.M.R.: The Pacific Islands Year
Book, 1950, published by Pacific
Publications Pty., Ltd., 247 George-
street, Sydney K.D.; The Yorick
Club Prize of 25 guineas for the
best short story of 1949 was
won by Hal Richardson, of the
Melbourne “Argus” R.J.S.: Bill
Squires fought Tommy Burns three
times —at Colma, Cal., on July 4,
1907; at Neuilly, France, on June
13, 1908; and at Sydney Stadium on
August 24, 1908. Burns won all con-
tests by knockout —in one, eight and
13 rounds, respectively N.D.: It
the fence in question is a dividing
one, half the cost of which has been
paid by your neighbor, it would bv
necessary to obtain his sanction tc
its removal and the substitution of a
brick wall L.H.8.: Get in touch
with the Senior Research Officer,
Division of Wood Technology, N.S.W.
Forestry Commission, 96 Harrington-
street, Sydney... .R.M.: The Pleasant
Career of a Spendthrift by George
Meudell K.G.R.: Extermination is
best effected by treating the nest with
carbon bisulphide. Pour about one
tablespoonful down each of the main
entrances to the nest, and then close
them up. Carbon bisulphide is
inflammable, and lights must be
kept away from it S.J.G.: Write
N.S.W. Agricultural Dept., Sydney,
for pamphlet “Insect Pests of Stored
Grain” E.G.z The artist was
Frederick Terry, born 1827 and died
1869. He arrived in Sydney in the
early j ’fifties, and is represented in the
Mitchell Library and the Sydney Gal-
lery. He worked for John Sands,
did lithographs and probably wood-
cuts, and was a good artist of his
time... .T.M.; Les Robinson has
had published one book of short
stories, The Giraffe’s Uncle, published
by the Macquarie Head Press, Syd-
ney C.D.; The English royal
family became known as the House
of Windsor by proclamation of July
17, 1917... .A.M.J.; Full particulars
are obtainable from the Federal
Government Printer, Canberra
L.H.: To enable you to sell the land
and procure the transfer you must
have a power of attorney. This, no
doubt, you could obtain from your
son B.B.: “The Australian
Adjective” was written by W. T.
Goodge, and appears in The Bulletin
Reciter. .. .H.D.: Dan Cooper shore
316 sheep with the machines in
the full eight-hour day in 1909 at,
Bundooran (Q.).... A.K.: Write Col-
• lector of Customs, Customs House,
Sydney, and the Superintendent,
Mercantile Marine Office, York-street,
Sydney... .L.J.M.: The schooner
Glenbank was wrecked during a hurri-
cane off Legendre Island on Feb-
ruary 6, 1911. Twenty-three of the
crew were lost, one saved... .T. 8.:
Liameena is a N.S.W. abo. place-
name meaning “near a lagoon”
C.H.: Gus Bluett, the Australian
comedian, died on March 14, 1936.
D.F.: There is a trustworthy
account of David Lennox’s life,
written by Henry Selkirk, published
in Vol. • VI, Part 5, of the Royal
Australian Historical Society’s Journal.
T.R.S.: Chokos will live and
bear fruit for many years if well
cared for. Plants over 10 years old
have frequently come under notice.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be' taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor,
H.D.W.; “Horsepower” a bit thin
and a bit old J.F.P.: “Tauorga
Plough” too scrappy A.E.; The
scene’s very good, but there’s not
enough happening G.R.; Missed
the point of your story, “Women
Spoil Everything”... .S.S.: Blowing
“The Purple Cloud” back whence it
came T.P.R.: Since you “fear our
ungentle criticism” we won’t say
what we were going to G.W.W.:
It fluttered away... .C.S.D. f Came
close, but it’s much too long for
what’s in it... .H.A.J.; It will take
you a long time to get anywhere
near standard... .K.R.: Another to
join the. death-in-the-desert school.
P.J.M.: “I hope you let me off
lightly.” Well, this time,Spertiaps,
but don’t do it again E.J.N.;
Cut it by half, find another finish,
then try again K.G.K.: You’ve
borrowed more than O. Henry’s style.
H.L.A.: If instead of turning
them out “by the yard” you turned
out something a bit better by the
inch there might be a chance
8.G.: Something there, but it’s too
long, and needs more careful hand-
ling.. .M.P.: Advise you not to
waste any more stamps on that effort.
E.T.W.: You’re getting closer.
Keep writing about things you know.
F.M.: Resignedly awaiting further
contributions... .R.J.F.: Not sur-
prised that her “eyes of fiery liquid
pools” bewilder you P.N.D.;
Never heard anyone speak like that.
Bellerive: Lay your sprig of
rosemary:
Tribute to the Memory of Marion Miller
Knowles, Australian Novelist and Poetess,
who departed life at the age of 74.
M.G.H.; That horse has been
worked to a standstill... .5.8. W.;
Your old school magazine might
glance through it....J.J.: Hero, girl,
villain and the little old home! Can’t
you think of anything fresh?
A.S.: No doubloons for your
Spanish bullfighter T.M.: “When
the wind screams in from the east,
slices the crests from the breakers
and flings spume and scud high over
the cliffs” —and so on for half-a-
dozen pages. Out!... .G.R.R.: Your
“effort to catch in verse those
evanescent flashes of beauty that fire
the soul in the presence of the
magnificent in nature” flopped into
the basket V.R.: Interred with
other relics of the last century
T.W.D.: Usual hash of wills, mur-
ders and amateur sleuthing
A.J.M.: That peg should support
something stronger.. . .C.G.: Don’t
submit the rest unless they’re a lot
better than the batch you sent in.
H.C.S.: Come, come, you didn’t
really think we’d make space for poor
little Mary! C.D.L.: So once again
the new typist thaws the boss’s
frozen heart 8.A.: Why not take
a less jaundiced view of life?
P.W.: You’re fishing with another
man’s line G.R.D.: Detective and
his bloodhound are trailing each other
homeward A.J.: If you must
continue, at least write legibly
A.8.W.: “Could you suggest another
market for these?” No, we don’t
dislike anyone as much as that
A.L.F.: Sinister murderers haven’t a
chance here.
Fine poetess, novelist
And friend of the best,
Mrs. Marion Knowles
Was laid to rest.
Bom at Woodspoint
Of our Victorian clime,
She lived through the
Many changes of time.
As the years of her life
Did prevail and desperse
She wrote with success
Fine prose and verse.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4id. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
Starlings
The clearing of land in the south-east
of S.A. and in western Victoria has
turned millions of acres of typical Aus-
tralian scrubland into pasture meadow-
land similar to that of England. Apart
from the fact that many of our paddocks
are larger than a whole English farm,
the great difference is found in the fact
that the typical English hedgerow and
coppice of trees are absent. It is a serious
oversight, and today we are paying the
penalty for it in the form of severe grub
and insect damage to pastures.
Some species of birds cannot exist
away from the harborage which provides
them with nesting- and roosting-places,
and the typical English thickset hedge is
what most insectivorous birds require.
Our magpies do a grand job, but there
are seldom more than a pair of birds to
several acres, and they cannot cope with
the heavy insect or grub infestation
which can be cleaned up only by countless
thousands of gregarious birds moving
across the grassland in a great flock. The
imported starling can, and does, do this
job wherever suitable harborage is pro-
vided for it.
On a tour of areas where pastures are
being attacked, I met many landowners
who said “But I did leave quite a lot oi
trees when I cleared my land.” They
had, but they had made the usual mistake
of sparing the young, straight-trunked
saplings instead of preserving those old
ones, full of hollow limbs, which provide
nesting-places for birds, and they had
spared no dense thickets of tea-tree, she-
oak and similar stuff for the same
purpose. What nesting-sites can birds
find in straight young saplings?
The cure lies in planting dense hedges
of any. plant which is not likely to spread
and become a pest, as boxthorn does.
Olive is good; so are the hawthorn and
the tamarisk. Excellent results can also
be achieved by taking all the old jam-,
fruit- and similar tins from the farm
rubbish-dump and nailing them to the
trunks and limbs of any trees which have
been spared. The entrance to the tin
should face away from the weather and
be tilted slightly downward to avoid
water collecting inside it. Experiments
have shown that starlings use these nest-
sites, and that a tin will last for years;
one man can nail up hundreds of them
in a day.
Ecology—the balance between animal-,
bird-, vegetable- and insect-life —is not
just a newfangled science ; it is something
of vital interest to the farmer. —H. A.
Lindsay (S.A.).
Drink and Drivers
Drunken driving, accidents arising
from it and the penalties imposed have
been given a good deal of prominence
lately, but no one seems to have made
the obvious suggestion—that it should be
a criminal offence to drive a car within
one hour of haying taken any liquor
whatsoever.
While it would be impossible fully to
police such a law it would mean at least
that any driver coming straight from a
hotel bar to his car would be liable to
arrest.
The N. S. Wales Department of Road
Transport rightly insists on a thorough
inspection of the safety devices of any
vehicle before registration, but there’s no
check other than a perfunctory driving
test on the safety factors of the driver
provided he can see and hear and appears
reasonably sane. You can’t get a vehicle
passed for registration if there are de-
fects, no matter how slight, in the brakes
or steering. Why should a driver whose
ability to brake or steer is only slightly
defective as a result of alcohol be allowed
to drive?
Safety campaigns backed by sensible
police advice have had good results, as
is proved by the great improvement in
the road manners of Sydney drivers over
the last few years. Crossing the city
many times each day I notice dozens of
acts of road courtesy by drivers who yield
the right of way to pedestrians and others
even where they are not legally obliged
to do so. And in nearly every case
the driver accepting such courtesy right
of way acknowledges the gesture by a
friendly wave or nod.
Such road courtesy is, however, mainly
apparent during business hours when
most Of the drivers are professionals or
semi-professionals depending on a car
for their business. When the evening
peak of homebound traffic occurs courtesy
is seldom seen. And that, combined with
after-work grog, makes peak-hour traffic
at night something to be avoided. —C. R.
(N.S.W.)-
The Wool Scheme
After a recent conference with wool-
growers’ representatives Minister Mc-
Ewen announced that he had asked them
to explain to growers that “as yet there
was no specific plan which could be pre-
sented to woolgrowers.” This means
that “80-Zo,” “R.K.,” “Dick Turpin”
and “R.L.S.” (B. 23/8/’5O) condemned
a plan before they had seen it.
The bete noire of their criticism was
Government control of wool, but Mc-
Ewen has specifically announced that
“the Government had no intention of
seeking any control of the industry,”
He went further and invited “growers’
organisations to make suggestions for in-
corporation in the plan or legislation to
ensure that no future Government could
take advantage of the plan to impose any
controls on the industry.”
The first move to have a post-J.O.
grower-controlled marketing scheme was
made in 1946 by the Wool and Meat
"Darn! Forgot me cushion.”
Producers’ Federation, It was taken up
by the Australian Woolgrowers’ Council
in July, 1947, Similar plans were pro-
posed by both organisations, and each
provided for reserve prices and auction-
selling under a grower-majority con-
trolled organisation. Details of the
A.W.C. plan were published over 12
months ago, and copies were posted to
grower members. In N. S. Wales all
woolgrowers were invited to attend
branch meetings of the Graziers’ Asso-
ciation, where leaders of the industry ex-
plained details of the proposed plan. No
secret was made that the A.W.C. plan
entailed some measure of Government
control.
The lack of hostility at that stage indi-
cated that the. majority of growers
favored some such plan. Not until the
levy was suggested did woolgrowers pro-
test in earnest. Rather than back a
grower-controlled marketing scheme they
would sooner take their money and hand
a goodly part of it over to the tax-
gatherer. They would prefer buyer-
controlled to grower-controlled market-
ing.
Wool-producers are not against the
reserve-price auction system. It first came
into operation in 1946, and I neither saw
nor heard any opposition to the present
system until the bell-wether bleated
something about Government control.
Then the mob followed him.
Those who are anxious to get back to
buyer-controlled auctions would do well
to recall that the last clip under such a
system realised only £38,673,956. That
was in 1938-39, and the next clip under
Government - controlled appraisements
fetched £64,021,225. That fairly answers
“R.L.5.,” who said we were just as
pinched under the war-time appraise-
ments as during the worst days of the
depression. Allowing for J.O. profits,
Government control of the 1939-40 clip
gave us over £26 million more than
buyer-control, so who wants to revert to
buyer - control after that? Graz
(N.S.W.).
Roads
There’s an article in an American
magazine which could be read and
pondered on by all thinking Australians.
Its opening sentences are worth quot-
ing:— .. P
America faces a transportation crisis ot
the first magnitude. Under the relentless
battering of outsize and overloaded trucks
• the three million miles of road are going to
pieces faster than money can be found to
replace them. Of the 37,800 miles of inter-
state trunk highway in the U.S., 35,500
miles need immediate improvement, at a cost
of 11 billion (£A4,890,000,000). It would
cost another 49 billion (£A21,700,000,000)
to bring all U.S. roads up to traffic require-
ments. Even the famed Pennsylvania
Turnpike is, according to some authorities,
beginning to show the effects of heavy
trucking. Many other roads built to last
30 years without major repairs are breaking
up in five years or less.
There’s a lot more in the same strain.
but what it means is that the building
and loading of commercial vehicles have
far outstripped the ability of any road
to carry them. I’d stress “any” road be-
cause these are not bush-tracks but the
very last word in highway engineering,
slabs of reinforced concrete as much as
9in. thick laid down at a cost of up to
£200,000 a mile, 10 times the cost of an
equivalent railway. Under the impact of
ordinary automobile and bus traffic they
would remain unmarked almost indefi-
nitely. One badly-overloaded truck, it
has been proved, can wreck miles of sur-
face in a single trip.
Points worth noting: Practically the
whole of that astronomical cost —astro-
nomical even by U.S. standards—can be
attributed directly to the trucking in-
dustry. It is incurred in moving, in
inter-State service, a volume of traffic
which ranges from less than 10 per cent.,
for short hauls, to less than one per cent.,
on runs of over 50 miles, of the total
handled by all carriers.
Any effort to relate charges for the
use of the road, even vaguely, to the cost
of providing it would have no effect on
the ordinary road-user but would divert
almost all of that traffic back to the rail-
roads. And they need it badly. In-
dustrial America cannot, either in peace
or in war, do without its railroads, the
only carrier which costs the taxpayer
nothing, but, on the contrary, pays a
cool billion a year in taxes. But the
railroads cannot survive in the face of
competition subsidised to the fantastic
extent revealed by those figures.—Trans-
porticus (Singapore).
Seed-oil
The Federal Minister for Commerce
and Agriculture (Mr. McEwen) has come
up with a 10-years’ plan for agriculture
which includes “exploration into the
possibilities of producing oil-seeds to
meet a world demand.”
Although it has apparently just dawned
on the Minister that “land grazing a few
sheep could produce tons of oil from
linseed, sunflowers and peanuts,” oil-
growing in Australia has long needed
such an official attitude and approach.
The cultivation of oil-seeds is given every
attention in other countries. America’s
acreage of soybean alone is equivalent to
one and a half times Australia’s total
wheat acreage. India, too, gives oil-
producing crops about twice the space
we give to wheat.
World demand is great. Australia itself
imports approximately 100,000 gallons
of vegetable-oils a year at nearly as
many pounds, and the U.K., the U.S.A.,
India, Holland, Russia, Uruguay, Den-
mark and the Argentine import large
quantities. Some countries import the
seed to extract the oil for resale.
Linseed, sunflower- and cotton-seed,
peanuts, olives and coconuts, to name a
few, can all be used successfully—for the
commercial production of oil. Some of
the oils are edible, such as peanut, olive
and castor, and have an immediate con-
sumption as medicine and food dressings,
while others are used as preserving
agents and butter substitutes, and in
pickling and canning. Industrially they
are used in paint, ink, varnish, soap and
cosmetic manufacture, and the finer
varieties provide lubricants for delicate
machinery.
After the oil is extracted the remaining
pulp is pressed into cakes which, as they
are rich in protein, are used to fatten
cattle, sheep and poultry for shows, and
sometimes to treat sick animals.
As Minister McEwen suggests, some
form of committee or organisation
needs to be set up to investigate, not take
over, the industry. Study should be
made of the species most suitable to Aus-
tralian conditions, their pest-resistance
and harvesting methods. Linseed has
shown that it can be harvested with a
header, and is successful under mixed-
farming conditions ; other varieties will
probably be the same.— Goodoil (Q,).
Regulations
After all these years of rough living,
it lifts the heart to see that one body of
men, at least, proposes to place its duty
to the community above its personal con-
venience. I’m referring to the posties’
holding a strike during which they’d
adhere rigidly to the rules and regulations
of the P.M.G.’s Department.
It was touching to leam that these men
would enforce upon themselves the ob-
servance of the rules that are supposed to
ensure the effectiveness of their service
to the public, though rather puzzling to
see that it was for only one day. Presum-
ably this was a preliminary warning to
give slack supervisors and workmates a
chance to reorganise so that they would
be able to stick to the rules, too.
Perhaps we can now hope that other
sections of the community will soon
follow the noble example of the posties—
that taxi-drivers will strike by enforcing
upon themselves the rules against
multiple-hiring and so forth, that butchers
and greengrocers will strike by adhering
to the rules about controlled prices, and
that motorists will strike by observing the
rules of the road, — Ruled (N.S.W.).
Car Telephones
The Road Safety Council should be in-
terested in the latest improvement to the
modem motor-car. If you are prepared
to pay the high cost you can have a tele-
phone installed in your car so that y<? u
can telephone your office, your bookie,
girl-friend or anyone else while you
drive along the streets of the busy metro-
politan area. I always thought that a
car-driver could not pay strict attention
to his driving and tune-in a radio-set a
the same time, but even admitting tna
he can do that safely I can’t believe tna
he can carry on a telephone c °uy er ® j
tion while driving through city traffic- u
course, there could be a regulation com-
pelling him to stop while he, makes «
phone-call, but that would be J u
another traffic law for the motorist
break.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).


TALKIES
"Bitter Springs."
To give supporting color to this latest
Australian film the foyer of Sydney
Lyceum has been touched up with bark
and straw, or something resembling them,
so that the ticket-offices are concealed m
what look like intended gunyahs, tool-
sheds, outhouses or soma similar rough
outback structures. The result is that one
reaches for one’s ticket deep into the in-
terior of one of these mysterious edifices
with vague doubts about wh.it is in there.
All is well, however ; the pretty young
blonde is still in residence, and one passes
on up the stairs feeling slightly relieved
that the fingers have not been cracked by
a throwing-stick or bitten by a dingo.
Much the same feelings of doubt,
succeeded by pleasant relief, are evoked
by the film itself. From past Australian
films one suspects, and half-expects, all
manner of things ; in present experience
one finds a lightly agreeable story set
around the 19.00’s and dealing with the
efforts of a family to push inland with a
small mob of sheep and set up their hold-
ing on an old abo. tribal ground. They
have labor troubles, water roubles, get
bogged, sweat a bit and finally have some
rather politely handled differences with the
aboriginal inhabitants oi ine waterhole
on which they settle—an abo. is shot with
regrets all round, one of the settlers is
speared in the shoulder, and then harmony
is established and the original holders of
the country are taught to shear sheep, or
something—all very nicely handled and
idealistic, of course, but good enough tor
the purposes of the story which sets its
target fairly low in the dramatic scale.
Director Ralph Smart has apparently
been very conscious of the limits oi his
material and cast, pushing both along
very gently without expecting a great
deal from either. The landscape and
actual physical action are his most reliable
materials, and he uses them liberally ; the
histrionic ability and the voices of the
players are his most unstable props, and
he uses them as sparingly as possible.
Chips Rafferty, for instance, as the
father of the family, looks very well and
credible in his part; he wears a greasy
hat, a sweaty shirt, an old pair of strides
and a moderate stubble as though he
owns them, and there is an air of natural-
ness about his rangy riding and move-
ments. But there it ends. The moment
he opens his mouth —even for lines kept
conveniently short—his creation falls as
flat as a lizard in the dust. The same,
with the possible exception of Jean Blue
as the mother and Gordon Jackson as a
Scottish migrant carpenter, and with the
certain exception of Tommy Trinder, may
be said of most of the cast —all acting and
looking their parts but never speaking
them, even though the dialogue has been
reduced to the briefest and simplest terms.
There are moments in the film when
that defect has an unintended and unex-
pected effect of realism. The setting looks
so convincing, and Rafferty and co. look
so businesslike and natural that one gets
the impression that they are really doing
what the film purports to show ; then one
or another speaks, and so flat and uncon-
vincing does it seem that these might be
real people being recorded by the camera,
and, like most people, unable to say a few
lines of dialogue naturally. It’s an odd
effect and probably contains, somewhere,
a tribute to Director Smart of having
done everything possible with the re-
sources available to him.
The inclusion of Trinder, strange
though it seems in such a story, turns out
to be a bright notion ; he ambles through
the piece, a capable good-natured clown
providing a good deal of necessary
humorous relief. Nonnie Piper, as the
daughter of the family who softens the
stern Scots carpenter of Gordon Jackson,
is lightly touched with dust and swea —
pardon/perspiration—so as not to conceal
her blonde charms, and rides around coo-
cooing the sheep as though she were
bringing in the chooks.
The aboriginals yabber and shout, peer
around trees, hide behind rocks, throw a
few spears and give every evidence of tak-
ing nothing seriously and enjoying them-
selves immensely—-as they probably did.
Sic Transit Gloria.
It is an interesting reflection on the
changing standards of films that audi-
ences of not so long ago would prob-
ably have considered Gloria Swanson the
only natural character in “Sunset Boule-
varde,” at Sydney Prince Edward, and
the rest of the cast a lot of inept players
incapable of expressing human emotions.
Today it is the rest of the cast who look
natural, and Miss Swanson appears, as
she is meant to appear, as an overacting
and painfully self-dramatising actress.
Audiences of 25 years hence will prob-
ably wonder what on earth both Miss
Swanson and the rest of the cast were
about.
The film, a rather harrowing and not
very entertaining mixture of savagery
and sentimentality, deals with a once-
great queen of the silent movies, rich and
mad, and living in a great decaying
mansion like a forgotten and untended
museum and filled with bizarre furni-
ture and decorations, and littered with
photographs of the actress in her heyday.
She suffers from a mixture of fear and
hate of the world that has forgotten
her ; she is twisted with gnawing frus-
trations and spends her time alternately
convincing herself she is still a great
actress and writing the great drama in
which she will make her comeback.
An accident brings a penniless, good-
looking young script-writer to the house ;
the lucrative job of editing the actress’s
play keeps him there until she falls in
love with him, or, rather, in a form of
self-gratification, convinces herself she is
in love with him and he with her. She
uses clothes, expensive gifts and all the
means at her disposal, including
attempted suicide, to keep him there until
he finds himself in the invidious posi-
tion of living on a wealthy, half-mad
woman nearly twice his age and being
unable to leave. When, eventually, he
does try to make the break she shoots
him and is carted off to an asylum,
happily convinced that the police, re-
porters and newrseel cameramen who
invade the house are the players and
technicians for her great comeback.
It is rather difficult to pin Miss Swan-
son’s performance down. Is she simply
repeating her experiences of the silent
films, when every movement of eyes,
hands and mouth was a kind of exag-
gerated mime? Or is she really a skilful
actress, brilliantly overacting to get that
effect? At any rate, the result is quite
remarkable: an uncomfortably convinc-
ing portrait of an ageing woman,
ludicrously overdramatising herself and
her world and clinging desperately and
piteously to memories and delusions of
grandeur.
Still, remarkable though the portrait
is, it is not a particularly pleasant one.
There is something about it like the
curious jabbing of a corpse or the wilful
baring of a deformity with perverted
exhibitionism ; in fact, that quality per-
vades most of the film, particularly the
clammy affair between the actress and
the young script-writer, and makes it of
a kind with all the others that go, rather
in the interests of commercial spectacle
and profitable curiosity than of art, to
neurotics, dipsomaniacs, nymphomaniacs
and other mental deformities and de-
pravities for their material.
Looking slightly self-conscious, a few
other old-timers make brief appearances
as themselves—Buster Keaton, H. B.
Warner, Anna Q. Nilsson among them.
Erich von Stroheim, as ex-director, ex-
husband and present butler for the star,
goes stoically through the piece ; William
Holden makes a fairly natural fist of the
young writer, and Nancy Olson, who
looked so attractive in “Canadian
Pacific,” looks equally so in this as a
young studio employee and provides a
fresh human note in contrast to the
damp-rot of the rest of the story.
"Father of the Bride."
After inspecting this M.-G.-M. comedy
at Sydney Liberty one begins to under-
stand the custom, whoever indulged in
it, of disposing of newborn daughters
before they uttered their first squawk.
In fact, it is almost possible to approve
of the habit and to contemplate, if one
had any daughters, the means of dispos-
ing of them before it is too late.
It is useless, dangerous, in fact, to plan
on keeping them for eventual disposal by
marriage. That, indeed, is the great pit-
fall which previous disposal is designed
to avoid. Take the case of Mr. Spencer
Tracy, middle-aged, moderately prosper-
ous, nice home, nice wife, two sons —
and one daughter. She, too, is nice, of
course; 20 or thereabouts, dewy-eyed
and affectionate, loves her old man, helps
around the house and keeps a string of
boy-friends in their proper places.
Then one night she ups and says she's
getting married. Well, that’s all right;
at least it is after the first shock, after
grilling the young man and after going
through the parade of meeting his
parents and so forth. Just a small, quiet
wedding, they all say, and you mentally
earmark a few hundred dollars or so for
the occasion.
Then the rot sets in. The wife and
daughter go into mysterious huddles,
strangers clatter in and out of the house,
the phone rings incessantly, and before
you know where you are there’s talk of
an orchestra, box after mysterious box
arrives, and the whole family has to be
fitted out with new clothes. Then, after
a few strangled protests, you're properly
in. Presents for the bridesmaids, presents
for the 'groom ; 500 guests; the caterer
arrives, looks over the house and down
his nose, rips out a few doors and sends
your furniture away in a pantechnicon
so that the guests will have room to
stand. ' t ,
You go down the aisle on lolly-legs
while your daughter steps it out like a
queen ; you go back home to the recep-
tion and claw and fight your way through
a bedlam of chattering champagne-swil-
ling crowd, most of whom you’ve never
met, in a frantic attempt to say goodbye
to your daughter, but the best you can
do is get a phone-call from her after she’s
gone. You finish up sitting in the midst
of confetti, ash-trays, broken glass and
empty bottles and wondering whether
your house will ever be the same again
and feeling nearly as sick as your bank
account.
That, briefly, is what Mr. Tracy goes
through. He bears up rather well,
mumbling and growling like an old bear,
but not biting anyone. And since, at
any time, Mr. Tracy is an adept at
mumbling and growling without biting,
he gives a very good performance.
Elizabeth Taylor, as his daughter, makes
a suitably pretty little wide-eyed puss;
and Joan Bennett, as the mother, passes
from mild surprise to an enthusiasm that
almost outstrips her daughter’s in the
matter of expense.
"Ichabod and Mr. Toad."
Probably because they are even
further removed from any standards of
comparison, the animals and creatures of
Disney’s fantastic world always seem
more “credible” than his “human”
figures. The difference is well brought
out in his latest effort at Sydney May-
fair, an hour or so of animated cartoon
consisting of a version of Kenneth
Grahame’s story of J. Thaddeus Toad for
the first half and an animation of the
Sleepy Hollow legend for the second.
Mr. Toad wins easily. With the voice
of Eric Blore for himself and that of
Basil Rathbone for narrator, he indulges
in his wild, extravagant escapades with
the most infectious abandon, serves his
spell in jail, returns to revenge himself
on the villainous weasels with the
greatest of gusto, and goes on his way
unhanged and unreformed and taking
with him the audience’s sympathy and
admiration. Rat, Badger and Mole are
all there in Disney’s most engaging
manner. , ,
It is curious that Disney should make
such a fair fist of the English tale and
such a poor one of the American, as he
does of the story of schoolmaster Icha-
bod Crane, his wooing of the wealthy
farmer’s daughter and his eventual
disappearance after his fearful encountei
with the headless horseman. The
abovementioned reason, no doubt, has
something to do with it, plus the iact
that Bing Crosby’s voice in the second
item doesn’t compare with the beauti-
fully - modulated tones of Rathbone.
Whatever the reason, Ichabod’s adven-
tures in cartoon fall very flat after the
delightful doings of Mr. Toad.
Other new releases in Sydney include
R.K.O.’s “The Secret Fury” (Esquire), a
further dose of psychiatry with Robert
Ryan and Claudette Colbert and a past
to be examined; M.-G.-M’s “Devils
Doorway,” with Robert Taylor as an in-
telligent young Red Indian trying to right
some of the wrongs done to his race ; and
the same studio’s “Yellow Cab Man,”
with Red Skelton providing his usual line
of clowning; Universal’s “Louisa”
(State), a light comedy about a grand-
mother (Spring Byington) and her two
suitors (Charles Coburn and Edmund
Gwenn); and “Gun Crazy,” from United
Artists, a moderately exciting crime melo-
drama with Peggy Cummins as vicious
gunwoman and John Dali as her partner
whose enthusiasm wanes as their crimes
mount in savagery and number.
“THE BULLETIN”
CROSSWORD No. 85
Across.
I—Animal gets a razor sharpener
before he causes an accident. (11)
7 This achievement by a comedian
limits talk in Parliament. (3)
” —Fossick around with 100 between
the pirate’s drink and the epoch.
(7)
*0 These envoys have some support
with a setback. (7)
11 Tunes joints that may float
through the sky. (8)
13 Sausage Sarah has a French
friend. (6)
ic JJro P two crotchets last as long. (5)
16 Kay has dash with the brown
place in Malaya.
18—Large crowd. (3)
25 Latin 100 with which the editor
0 told “fish stories.” (8)
11 Pertaining to a grain duck and
an X. (5)
m £ ue * stud y °f a Frenchman. (6)
■ Lard sure is changed by this
warrior, (8)
Little Muriel muddled the total
half-caste. (7)
• 5 - 5 Put in the middle of a blushing
com. (7)
4 M o( j e of addressing a man. (3)
3 Promote Ross (anagram). (11)
Down.
1— Fish menagerie that survived the
flood room for the stationary
motorist. (3-4)
2 Mrs. Built carted aristocrats to
the guillotine. (8)
3 Cutting South Carolina with an
object. (8)
4 Grain on Port Phillip Bay. (3)
5 Forebear takes the French wan. (4)
6 Gag-man muddled a salesman
from the poultry-farm. (3-3)
7 FJew York acquired one ot
Noah’s children. (6)
8 — Bird to leave King David s
ordnance. (7)
12 —Piano sheep is a mobile cradle (4)
13 is rising with 10 and three-fifths
thereof. (3) .
14 —Set fire to the French resting-
place. (3) .
17 —Negative alternative. (3)
19 — a personal unpleasantness or a
coarse fellow. (4)
20— Deep voice with an eye to duck
a Shakspearian character. (8)
21— Confectionery when a Spanish
hero falls from a considerable
height. (4-4)
22 — Vegetables include an Australian
tree among the dregs. (7)
23 — Pouch. (3)
24 — New rising of a cyst. (3)
26 Scoffer of the French jockey. (7)
27 He minds the horses at the inn. (6)
28 —Two boys may be beaten by
savages. (6)
31 —Buck’s daughters and acts. (4)
33 —n has as many tails as lives? (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 84.


r — m —f
m s
*1
il!
S
I
■
■
■m
i«i
■
Memories cannot furnish
the funds for children’s schooling
How can you guarantee your child will reap the benefits
of greater educational facilities, if you should die?
Your wife could not give a mother’s care and earn a
living, too!
Memories cannot furnish the funds for children’s school-
ing. Remembrance cannot provide for the years to come.
You can guarantee their future right now with an A.C.A.
Educational Policy available to children of all ages from
birth upwards.
The safe, sound plan, possible even on modest earnings,
of saving a small amount each week assures your children
of receiving a sound education or the choosing of a pro-
fession, regardless of what may happen to you.
PLAN WHILE YOUNG
Assurance costs more every year you wait. A wise step
for wise parents is to take out an A.C.A. Educational
Policy now.
Act now —clip the coupon below and write in for your
free copy of “I’m the Big Reason” which explains in
detail the advantages of an A.C.A. Educational Policy.
A.C.A. POLICIES ARE GOOD POLICIES
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in N.S.W.)
HEAD OFFICES:. A.C.A. Building, 66 King St., Sydney. ’Phone, BX 2165
MELBOURNE . . A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 5706
BRISBANE A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen St., Brisbane. B 8529
ADELAIDE .... Bank of N.S.W. Chambers, 12 King William St., Adelaide.
Cent. 7889
PERTH Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth. 86815
LISMORE 102 Molesworth St. Lismore 659
NEWCASTLE ... 69 Hunter St. Newcastle B 1121
TAM WORTH .. . Royal Chambers, 377 Peel St. B 696
POST THIS TO -DAY ftiMiiiiHiiiiintiWoiHniimmmiiiniiniiH®9
| AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE CO. LTD.,
A.C.A. BUILDING, 66 King Street, Sydney.
A.C.A. POLICIES FOR EDUCATION
| Without obligation, please send me complete information about I
| A.C.A. Educational Policies.
I Name . .
E • ’
| Business or Home Address
Cl
5
c
State,
8150
The assets of the A.C.A. total over £2,750,000, including Commonwealth Stocks, Freeholds,
Mortgages, Shares, Municipal Loans. Benefits: Claims exceed £2,050,000.
