

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 71- No. 3697
Wednesday, December 20, 1950
Price 9d,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
NO OTHER “HIGH STREET” COMPARES WITH “THE HIGH” OF OXFORD
OXFORD, famed throughout the world as a seat of learning, has a crowded
history which reaches back to the year 912, when it ranked with London
as a place of some-importance. The foundation of the early Saxon settlement,
however, goes back even further, to about a.o. 727, when, according to legend,
St. Frideswide established a church there. Its origin was due, also, to the
fact that the upper reaches of the Thames were fordable for herds of oxen
at the point where Oxford now stands. The early settlement suffered much
from the raiding Danes, apd later, because of its strategic location, William
the Conqueror built a castle there, and around it grew a walled Norman town.
During the Middle Ages the growth and history of Oxford were influenced
by the coming of the Friars, whose store of learning and religious teaching
attracted students from far and wide, and during the reign of King John
(1199-1216) they numbered three thousand. It was from these early beginnings
that England's University City developed, and, as might be expected in a place
whose growth has been so gradual, the architectural styles of its ancient
buildings cover every period from Saxon times. The High Street, known the
world over as “The High.” is one of the finest architectural vistas in England.
In 1642, during the turbulent days of the Civil War, Charles I held his
Parliament at Oxford, and later defended the city as his headquarters, but in
1646 the Royalist forces yielded to Fairfax.
The University consists of twenty-one colleges for men and four for
women, and, in addition, there are numerous other educational institutions
not directly connected with the university. In recent years the majority of
students have been, and are, “assisted,” and the University is now a place of
education for those whose means arc limited.
In the Oxford of today antiquity and modernity exist side by side, for the
demands of twentieth century commerce are to b'e seen in the great motor-car
works and other modern industries for which the city has become famous.
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


Learn
Storu Writing
V lUi of HOMF
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
-—— —‘Ct/T HERE AND MAIL— ——
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.250) Age
The Red Page
ESSAYS.
The highest art of the essay is to reduce
all matters, public, private, great and
small, to the prejudice of one man’s
momentary mood—no books consulted,
no observation checked —as might happen
in an inspired conversation; and the
highest art of the literary essay is to
modify, revalue, turn, change or twist
some literary opinion. Neither of these
objects is achieved to any great degree in
Fisher’s Ghost and Other Essays by L.
A. Triebel (Cheshire).
There is generally something of the
warped, the flamboyant, the abnormal or
the actor about the great essayist—Lamb,
Hazlitt, De Quincey, Chesterton; or of
the driven self-revelatory genius as with
the greatest, Montaigne—and it is the
quality of Dr. Triebel’s prose that he
would hardly elect to belong to such com-
pany on such terms; and his literary
essays, as against those of Arnold, which
transformed so much, or of Eliot, which
almost qualified him for membership of
the Magicians’ Union, are full of facts
which have long been public property,
and feelings we have often had.
Nevertheless, literary facts and ideas
can hardly turn round and round in a
learned and kindly brain, and tumble into
a newspaper column or a magazine at
the call of death or the republication of a
book or whatever else makes learning
news, without telling us something we
didn’t know ; and if Dr. Triebel’s bits
and pieces enter into no chemical
synthesis and become no new substance,
they make a literary kaleidoscope: one
reader learns that Dumas wrote a novel
about whaling in Tasmania, that Faust
was a Swabian, that Dante thought
Hebrew was the original tongue of man-
kind, that Sir Henry Newbolt was a
barrister, that Peron, having seen
Tasmania’s aboriginals, “flatly denounced
Rousseau’s worship of the uncivilised
state,” that Mary Mitford, of Our Village,
wrote the nursery-rhyme beginning
“Monday’s child is fair of face,” there is
a considerable essay on dogs and other
animals in literature, and there are pieces
on Leacock, Crabbe, Spinoza, Christina
Rossetti, Lessing, changes in language,
Wells, Poets’ Corner, Walter Murdoch,
Tasmania, etc.
But all, alas, as one turns through them
looking for something to remark upon, a
little flat ; the essay on “The Australian
Touch” has not, one fears, the Australian
touch. From all of which let us except
the note on Henry Handel Richardson.
Dr. Triebel was a student of her
husband’s, Professor J. G. Robertson, in
the University of London ; he worked
under the professor’s direction in their
house in Regents Park Road.
An Australian Weaver.
Biographies of businessmen are
generally as hard to read as their letters,
but young Mr. Ivan Southall, late
R.A.A.F., has made an interesting story
of Godfrey Hirst, founder of the weav-
ing firm, and, incidentally, a history of
weaving in Geelong, by turning a great
deal of his facts and figures into dialogue
in his The Weaver from Meltham (Whit-
combe and Tombs).
Maybe the dialogue is a little naive,
and the story might have been clearer if
less ingenuity had been, spent on making
it interesting; but Mr. Southall’s hero
makes up for a lot; a real live-wire, and
something of a card. Meltham was the
Yorkshire village where Godfrey Hirst
was born ; he arrived in Melbourne, aged
twenty-eight, in 1885, sold a little insur-
ance to farmers, got a job as weaver in
the Victorian Woollen and Cloth Com-
pany, booked a passage back to his wife
and children, but was forestalled by his
family’s unexpected arrival in Australia.
For a while he went back to weaving,
then drew plans for a loom, left the Vic-
torian, built his loom, set it up in a shed
behind a grocery shop, bought yarn from
his former employers and set about weav-
ing high-quality flannel; they washed the
finished job in a washtub on the back
verandah, hung it up and down the back-
yard clothesline to dry, took it back
twice when it fell into the dust and
washed it again and hung it up again,
and then sold it, as the only Colonial
flannel of first-rate quality, at beneath
the prices of imported flannel.
The business prospered, he bought two
looms and a washing-machine, knocked
three old cottages into one and ran his
looms on steam from the soapworks
next door. Later a factory-inspector
wanted to close him down because Hirst
could not produce his engine-driver and
boiler-attendant’s certificate. “You pro-
duce engine or boiler and I’ll produce
certificate,” Hirst said. The inspector
studied the factory and pointed trium-
phantly to a pipe in the wall. “That’s my
steam,” Hirst said. “I buy it for
eighteenpence an hour from the soap-
works next door —and he has engine and
boiler, and certificate.”
Hirst got into tow with wealthy
Charles Shannon ; they drew plans for
anew factory, and then, to the surprise
of the people of Geelong, they bought
the old Barwon factory and began mak-
ing tweeds. The firm progressed despite
the bank and business failures of the ’nine-
ties ; and in 1897 they bought the Vic-
torian mill, reopened it and began pro-
ducing cloth and storing much more
than they could sell. Overproduction
had been the ruin of the old companies,
and many thought that Hirst had gone
barmy. But he kept on producing.
It was in September that the old Queen
signed the proclamation of Federation.
Throughout the new-born Commonwealth
there were great rejoicings—and from
Geelong Godfrey Hirst played his master-
stroke. Within hours of the disappearance
of the crippling State tariff barriers thou-
sands of yards of tweeds and flannels and
thousands of pairs of blankets were piled
high on drays, were rumbling out of the
mill yard and were heading for the rail-
heads and wharves of neighbor States....
Godfrey Hirst was the first Victorian manu-
facturer, irrespective of type or importance,
to realise the possibilities of free trade
within the Commonwealth.
Our Noble Selves .
The subject is the British race as
spread over the world, the story of the
inhabitants of England and Wales, Scot-
land and Ireland, and their descendants,
their overseas adventures and settle-
ments, together with the effects produced
in civilisation, growth of trade and the
wealth of nations. Mr. C. E. Carring-
ton makes an epic of it in The British
Overseas: Exploits of a Nation of Shop-
keepers (Cambridge University Press). It
is a book of 1092 pages, with portraits
of great men, 42 maps, a list of British
Prime Ministers, Secretaries of State for
the Colonies and Permanent Under-
secretaries from 1768 to the present day,
and a generous index. It is a monument
of industry in compilation and a model
of clarity and compression in presenta-
tion.
Colonisation rather than military power
was the instrument of Empire-building
in “a process of expansion which has
completed itself in 10 generations.” What
began in adventure, and was raised upon
trade rivalry with Spaniards, Portuguese,
French and (above all) the Dutch, be-
came an astounding enterprise through
the sustained joint exportation of British
settlers and British capital. The author
dwells especially on the final three genera-
tions of achievement by British peoples
up to 1930, during which “Britain
financed the railways and founded the
industries of half the world.”
At every trading-station in the world the
British commercial colony became, more or
less consciously, a centre of British culture,
not because there was an intention to
propagate it, but because all other nations
wanted to share the fruits of British indus-
trial supremacy The language of the
nation of shopkeepers spread along the
shipping routes until, in all the ports of the
Old World, from Sierra Leone to Tientsin,
pidgin-English became the lingua franca.
Britain really ruled the waves when half
the world’s seagoing trade sailed under the
Red Ensign and the other half was equally
dependent upon British cable-stations,
British coaling-stations, and the use of a
few corrupted words from the English
language.
But there was more to it than material
success: —
Wherever they went, and they went every-
where, the British maintained their integrity,
carrying with them certain habits of mind:
a high standard of commercial morality, a
distrust of absolute or totalitarian doctrine,
an addiction to law and order without
militarism, to comfort rather than luxury,
to utility rather than art. Throughout the
Great Century the secret of British power
was the solidarity of this admirable
governing class... .that combined the most
audacious independence in action with the
strictest adherence to old English manners
and morals, that never lost confidence in
itself, never (and this marks the change
that has taken place in our generation)
lost faith in its duty to lead the world.
But leadership did not imply the imposi-
tion upon other races of British social
formulas. Unlike the melting-pot of the
American Republic, where immigrants of
all nations were assimilated into anew
nationality, the British Commonwealth was
a diversity, a mosaic of plural societies
which could preserve their own formulas,
as did canadiens, Afrikaners, Maltese,
Sinhalese, Malays, without losing the
advantage of membership in a greater polity.
.... The sovereignty of the Crown (which,
without intending disrespect, I describe as
the most fertile and admirable of all legal
fictions) thus renewed its value, generation
after generation, in innumerable combina-
tions of circumstance; and hardly less valu-
able has been the Law of Trust.
Sir Ernest Barker has pointed out (Ideas
and Ideals of Empire, 1941) a distinction
of law between two types of colony that
is at least as old as Blackstone. In the
colonies by settlement, the colonists were
presumed by the lawyers to “prry the
common law with them” and enjoy all its
privileges, including some form of rep-
resentative government. In the colonies by
conquest or cession the “despotic power
of legislation” nominally held by the Crown
meant in legal practice that the colonies
were protected by the rules of equity.
Officials who went to the colonies of this
order carried the law of trust with them
“as part of the stock-in-trade of their
minds.” And the principles of trusteeship,
an essentially temporary status, suggested
an eventual relinquishment of the trust
when the wards of court should reach
maturity”....
Above all, the Crown was the symbol of
peace.
It is only a little over 60 years (as is
herein recorded) since Cecil Rhodes,
engaged in moulding half Africa to his
vision, wrote to W. T. Stead: “The more
of the world we inhabit the better for the
human race. The absorption of the
greater portion of the world under one
rule simply means the end of all wars.”
The argument is confirmed, as certain
of these subject peoples now move away
—for better or worse —into complete self-
government, by the call they still make
upon their late trustees in the new re-
lationship for that spirit of fairplay with
which they have always identified the
British.
An extraordinary virility stamped the
pioneers, merchant-adventurers, sailors,
soldiers, prospectors, explorers, mis-
sionaries, even the “mere ruffians....of
the Spanish Main, who took the world
as they found it,” and has been revealed
also in the fecundity of the British stock
at home and in settlements abroad. On
this point the author has made some
striking investigations.
Ten generations ago, in the age of Shak-
speare and Raleigh, it is estimated that the
inhabitants of England and Wales numbered
about 5,000,000, of Ireland something more
than 1,000,000, and of Scotland something
less than 1,000,000. These 7,000,000 have
increased and multiplied in ten generations
about eighteen or twenty times over. Their
descendants now number about 140 mil-
lions, of whom more than half live in the
United States and not much more than
one-third in the British Isles. This is
physically the most remarkable phenomenon
in British history. While the British race
has been so prolific, it is conjectured on
scanty evidence that the population of
Europe as a whole has multiplied no more
than four or five times, and (on still scantier
evidence) it is thought that the population
of the world has increased at about the
same rate as that of Europe.
There is an early highly instructive
chapter on “Freedom of the Seas.” Fish-
ing had led Danish and British sailors
into Greenland waters, where lived
legends of coastal, voyages southward by
Eric the Red and other Scandinavians;
Levantines and Arabs had voyaged some
distance down each coast of Africa;
but the tradition is that the first advance
into the broad Atlantic was made in the
mid-14th century by an Englishman,
Robert Machin or Macham, who, “sail-
ing out of England into Spain with a
woman he had stolen,” was driven on to
Madeira by a tempest. The woman was
sick, Macham and some companions
went ashore with her, the ship, with a
good wind, sailed away without them, and
“the woman died for thought.” Macham
and his men built a chapel to her, then
“made a boat of one tree” and fetched up
on the coast of Africa. The Moors took
them to their king “for a wonder,” and he
sent the Englishmen to the king of Castile.
From Spain the island was then “dis-
covered,” also the Canaries, so named
because of the great dogs which “served
the islanders instead of sheep for vic-
tuals.” The Pope’s grant of the crown
of these, the Fortunate Isles, to a Cas-
tilian prince (1360) was the foundation
of later Spanish claims and papal awards
upon dominion over the New World.
Thus, when after Columbus’s first voy-
age Pope Alexander VI decided that new
islands east of a certain meridian should
pass to Portugal and west of that
meridian to Spain, no new precedent was
created. The parties did not know what
they were dividing; Columbus thought
he had found a group of islands off the
coast of Asia. As the truth became re-
vealed there were new papal awards
dividing first South America and then the
spice islands in the Pacific. From their
new vast sea empire the Spaniards
claimed to exclude all foreign trade and
settlement. Queen Elizabeth and her
Ministers refused to admit such claims
on the grounds that “the seas and the air
are free,” and that sovereignty over the
new lands must be justified by effective
occupation. This latter argument came
to be tacitly admitted by the Great
Powers of the age, France and Spain ; it
was obviously true in an expanding
world, whatever the ipse dixit of Rome.
Spanish statesmen devised anew prin-
ciple. Treaties made before the discovery
of the New World applied to the Old
World only. New treaties drawn with
reference to the Old World should leave
consideration of the New World out of
court. As early as 1559 Spain had made a
treaty of peace with France containing the
exception that beyond the Pope’s line of
demarcation “might should make right,”
and violence done by either party to the
other should not be regarded as a breach
of the treaty... .The principle of “no peace
beyond the line” cropped up in negotiation
all thiough the 17th century. This it was
that justified Drake’s exploits, and those
of the buccaneers a hundred years later.
The first English capitalists were small
men compared with the Continental
financiers who backed the King of Spain
and the Emperor, but the capitalist race
for the wealth of “the Indies” was in full
course, and the first of the English trad-
ing joint-stock enterprises, the Muscovy
Company, was formed to find “the north-
east passage” to these riches as a match
for the Portuguese south-east passage
round the Cape of Good Hope and the
Spaniards’ south-west passage through
Magellan’s strait. Other merchant expe-
ditions were formed for the Guinea coast
of Africa, the Barbary coast and the
Levant. The attraction in the Levant was
the overland trade through the Arabs
with the lands of the Great Mogul. The
first Englishman in India was, so far as
known, Father Thomas Stevens, a Jesuit,
sent to the Portuguese establishment at
Goa in 1579, There, in 1582, arrived,
seeking his protection, one Ralph Fitch,
master of the Tiger, the ship mentioned
in the First Witch’s curse in “Macbeth”:
A sailor’s wife had chestnuts in her 1ap....
Her husband’s to Aleppo gone, master of
the Tiger.
So is Mrs. Ralph Fitch casually made
immortal From Aleppo, Fitch went
overland to Ormuz, thence to Goa,
through Portuguese coastal posts, carry-
ing a letter from Queen Elizabeth to the
Great Mogul Akbar, addressed as “King
of Cambay.” One companion, a jeweller,
William Leeds, stayed at Akbar’s court.
Fitch went on to Bengal, Arakan,
Pegu and the Portuguese station of
Malacca, returned to England after eight
years and advised the founders of the
East India Company. Contempor-
aneously, one lames Lancaster, com-
manding an expedition of three ships on
a long raiding voyage against Spanish
merchantmen in the Indian Ocean,
brought home news of the vast wealth
the Portuguese had tapped in southern
Asia, of the discovery of the coast of
China and of a northern sea that might
open fr m the north-east passage. Lan-
caster's crews mutinied in the West
Indies on the way home, and he himself
returned empty-handed and in a French
ship, but the news he brought was more
important than the wealth of the sea
prizes he had captured and lost. Other
forerunners of the expansion preparing
in England were an English sailor.
Chambers, who sailed with Magellan,
Henry Hudson, who sailed a Dutch ship
to the river and the bay that bear his
name, and William Adams, who reached
Japan, also in a Dutch ship.
These details are only a sample of the
store in Carrington’s pages. Market pro-
duce and not Spanish gold was the aim
of the London merchants, and from the
earliest times migration settlement as the
basis of steady trade was the essential
plan. Being in financial difficulties in
1589, Raleigh assigned his interests in
Virginia, the source of potatoes and
tobacco, to a group of adventurers, who
in 1607 founded there two colonies, a
“London” and a “Plymouth” colony, the
latter a failure and the former saved
from foundering by the redoubtable Cap-
tain John Smith. A whole series of
colonies followed —Bermuda (Caliban’s
isle), Halifax, New England (recom-
mended by John Smith and started by
the Mayflower’s migrants), Connecticut
river (a breakaway section of “democrats
with religious toleration” from the Puri-
tan colony), Rhode Island (another rebel
section from New England); then new
settlements from Britain under the “pro-
prietary” system in the West Indies,
Nova Scotia, Maryland, Providence and
Honduras. The New England colonies
produced no satisfactory results in trade
to compensate for the drawing-off of use-
ful citizens ; and, following the advice of
Bacon and Raleigh, advisers of the early
Stuart kings planned colonies by charg-
ing “noblemen and gentlemen” as lords-
proprietors to plant settlers, exercise
(Continued on inside back coyer,)


Train trip, plane trip.
pack trip, ain’t-cornin’-back trip • •
Below:
Handsome Striped Tweed Cabin Case on fibre
foundation. High quality English locks and
centre clip. 28in., £5/11/9; 30in., £5/17/9.
f
d
f
Below: —
Smartly styled Brief Case, genuine hide
with a strong slide fastener around three
sides, and two inside pockets. Rexine lined.
Priced at 50/-.
m
mm
m*.
■ yy :
mi
i
Below:
“Val-Pac.” A travelling wardrobe. Genuine
Cowhide. Carries three suits without
creasing, and has two roomy outside
pockets. Price £l7/19/6.
mmmm
CD
mm.
rg
wm.
&
Oh
e
H
51
CLASS
English Wardrobe Case, striped
Grey Canvas Tweed, Cream leather
bound. Lid holds three suits without
creasing. Size 29 x 20 x 9in. Priced at £2l.
m
m
m
mi
L
Robe Case, matching canvas. Carries six
frocks without creasing. Lined throughout with
inside pocket, and rustless fittings. £2l/5/-.
youHl find more cases tor every
purpose at
’TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING'*
Anthony Horderns’
We know the secret of the smart way to travel ... the secret which enables
us to supply you with the cases that show your taste, your very personality. And not only
that, we want your clothes to look as neat as new when you arrive!
Below: —
Overnight Bag. Cloth lined, ringed
handles and outside pocket. Fawn,
Blue, Tan. Size 16in. hide, 76/9 ; Croco-
dile grained hide, price 84/-.
m
m
iv.
3
mm
Below :—
Robe Case in genuine Cowhide. Moire lined,
inside pocket, also roomy outside pocket.
Carries six frocks without crushing. Attractively
styled and light in weight. £l6/9/6.
(T,
U
m
ss
m
TRAVEL GOODS—GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. TELEPHONE M 2401. FREIGHT EXTRA


You Buy A CAFE
by E.O. SCHLUNKE
THERE is the same
sort of difference
between the broker
and his client as
there is between a
woman wearing her
corsetry and one who
isn’t. Not that the
broker would wear
stays; far from it: he is a man’s man.
Still, his new pin-stripe, double-breasted
suit is wrapped round him so snugly, and
fits so creaselessly, that it seems to sup-
port him physically as well as morally.
The client wears the all-purpose suit of
the small and cautious shopkeeper. He
walks with a stoop, with one hand in
front of his stomach, as if he is trying to
protect his ulcer. If he stood up properly
he would be three inches taller than the
broker, but he would still look inferior
because his face is full of middle-aged dis-
content ; a discontent so intense that it is
driving him, despite his better judgment,
to consorting with the business broker,
who may lead him into God-knows-what,
in these perilous, post-war inflation days.
“This is the place,” says the broker, as
they stop outside a cafe near the less re-
putable end of William-street.
The client looks unenthusiastically into
the window at several flyspotted, imitation
ice-creams and a couple of flat, colored
cordials in glasses with drinking straws
sticking out.
The broker looks up and down the
street, and an excited expression appears
on his face. He moistens his lips.
“A wonderful position,” says he.
“Thousands of people go past here every
day. Offices on one side, warehouses on
the other, a factory just up the lane, and
a school round the corner.”
“A lot go past,” says the client slowly,
with a helplessly worried look, “but how
many go in?”
“Ah, that will be your lookout,” the
broker says cunningly, as if no one had
ever thought of it before. “Give the right
man a position like this, and he’ll cram
it to the doors. Put the wrong one in and
nobody will ever see it. But” —and here
he looks most impressively into the
client’s eyes—“it’s no more use putting a
good man into a bad position than a bad
man into a good position.”
The client nods approval of the
epigram because the broker seems so
earnestly to desire it.
“We’ll go inside,” says the broker,
“and see if it isn’t just like I told you.”
THEY go in, past a long, green-and-
nickel milk-bar, and sit on a pair of
frail chairs which are squeezed into an
alcove designed for two people who are
very fond of each other. The broker
takes off his hat, and although he is only
quite a young, man he is nearly bald. His
face has a dead, pale color, but his eyes
are alive and watchful. His mouth has
the stretched, misshapen look of a man
who talks for a living. You can see where
the pouches will soon be forming under
his eyes, and his neck is beginning to
thicken. He looks about for seryice.
“Just as I said,” he exclaims self-
righteously. “Twenty feet of milk-bar and
not a customer breasting it because there
are no girls ready to serve. And two
customers are sitting at a table for a
mimite-and-a-half, and all the waitresses
chattering in a group at the back.”
He looks momentarily depressed, as if
he can see opportunity going by, and no-
body caring. Then his eye lights up again,
and he turns to the client. “Ah, what
wouldn’t Jo Mason make of a place like
this! Did I tell you about my friend Jo
Mason? The onel who sold his dairy-
farm?”
The client says, “Yes, you did.” But it
is no use.
The broker leans back into his chair
until it cracks warningly. He talks:
“I used to go to Jo Mascfn’s place for
a break occasionally before business got
me tied-up at weekends and all the time.
The usual set-up of a
small dairyfarm; cows,
some makeshift sheds,
grass paddocks, a small
patch of com and three
strong daughters. Up at
four. Work all day. Tea
at seven and go to sleep
straight after jt in his
chair. That’s what life was for Jo Mason.
I said to him:
“ ‘Jo, you’re wasting your time. You’ve
got a good business brain. You know
how to look after the pennies and turn
them into pounds. But here you’ve got
no scope. You come to Sydney with me
and buy a cafe. Your wife is a good
cook, and with your three daughters
you’d be practically independent of
labor troubles. See? You buy a cafe.
Just a little run-down one, cheap. You
build it up. You sell it at a good profit.
You buy a bigger one. You build that
up. You sell it.’ ”
A girl comes grudgingly up to their
table. She looks at file man talking so
earnestly and grins at the other girls.
The broker catches her in the middle of
it and frowns.
“Two coffees,” he snaps.
The girl shrugs her shoulders and walks
away wearily. The broker’s eyes follow
her. “My God,” he says, meaning
opportunity.
HE turns to his client again, and his
eyes brighten with enthusiasm, duti-
fully.
“You pught to see the girls at the place
Jo Mason’s got now. You must know
it. The Caroprezzo; the poshest place
at King’s Cross. Paid £20,000 for it. I
said to him when he bought it. I said,
‘For God’s sake, Jo, don’t overreach
yourself; not after the beautiful career
you’ve started.’ But do you know what
he said to me, not six months later? He
said: ‘lt’s all right, Andy. I’ve got it all
back already.’
“What a success!” he says, leaning so
close to his client and breathing on him
so soulfully that the client hurriedly
agrees.
The broker pauses for a while, rever-
ently.
“I must take you to Jo Mason’s place,”
he says in sudden, fervent resolve. “Just
to see the girls there.”
Then he leans back in his chair again
and slowly describes Heaven.
“Two long milk-bars each twice as
long as this; twice as much nickel, and
all shining like the sun. A girl to every
four feet, and every girl’s eyes on the
customers. All good-looking girls, all in
clean ironed overalls, all polite and just
friendly enough to encourage the
customers to come again. Bright girls,
you know, all smiling at the right time,
but no ‘showing-off’ (pouring drinks from
one glass to another two feet apart), and
no cheeking the men.
“And at the tables the same. As soon
as you come in the door a girl leads you
to a table and takes your order. You
get it without waiting. It’s good. You
eat it. You’re finished. You get your
check and go out. And the table is ready
for another customer; ready to earn
more money.
“But say a customer doesn’t want to
hurry out again. Along comes the
waitress. Very politely? *Will you have
anything more, Sir?* Nine out of ten
will do the decent thing. Another cup of
coffee. Sixpence, and fivepence-three-
farthings of it profit And that going on
all the time at fifty tables,
“And honest girls. You know, he tells
me that he has some that come and ask
him if they can keep a tip! He gets a lot
of them from the country, from where he
had his dairyfarm. Good, clean, honest
girls. He gives them a chance of a New
Life. Some of them stick with him for
years.
“Ah,” he says, becoming unashamedly
romantic, “a cafe, run the right way, is
safe, and sweet, and lovely.” And he
nearly hugs himself because it is so sweet
and lovely.
The waitress comes back reluctantly
with their coffee. It is weak, blue and
watery. It tastes stale. The client puts
in another spoonful of sugar, but he still
can’t drink it.
“This is all profit,” he says, grimly
humorous.
But the broker corrects him reproach-
fully :
“No profit at all, because we will never
come back.”
He shakes his head miserably.
“This place is so run-down that nobody
cares about anything. You could walk
out of the door without paying, and it
wouldn’t matter. A widow owns it. Her
daughter went on the razzle-dazzle when
the Yanks came. They were from a
country-town, and were doing very well
until it happened. You’ve got to know
about thege things, because you can cut
the price down and get a buyer in half
the time. That’s the way Ido business.
Quick sales, quick returns and quick
profits.”
He contemplates himself for a while;
then he remembers the greater one,
“Jo Mason never made any mistakes
like this. No weak coffee and dissatisfied
customers. Jo’s got a gift for satisfying
people, and getting a good profit at the
same time. I’ve watched him in all sorts
of places, and he always docs the right
thing. I can only say he’s inspired. A little
speck more butter here, bigger glasses
there, new furniture in another place, a
thorough redecoration, a “special” even-
ing with an orchestra. He never fails.
I’ve seen him go into a cafe, any cafe. He
looks around without a word. Just
getting the feel. And then he knows what
it’s worth, and what he could do with it.”
The broker gets up suddenly ; he is so
moved. He has to go immediately and
show Jo to his client. The waitress calls
out:
“Hi, there, aren’t you going to pay?”
The broker gives her a two-shilling
piece. She impudently puts it into the
pocket of her apron and dares him to
ask for change. She does not go to the
till. The broker puts on his hard hat in
disgust. They take a taxi to King’s Cross.
The client is a bit disappointed with
the look of the cafe after all he’s heard,
but the broker waves his arms and says:
“The Caroprezzo.” They go in, he points
out Jo. and stands for one minute in
silence,
JO MASON sits on a high, comfort-
less, wooden stool in a strategic
position. He is a big sturdy man with a
fat neck and black curly hair, close-grow-
ing. He has a round face, and brown
eyes which look amiable until they turn
straight at you.
The broker approaches Jo, though not
as confidently as you would think from
all his talk. He says heartily:
“Hullo, Jo, How are the cows milking
today?” He bursts out laughing and
turns to his client, who has to laugh, too.
But Jo does not laugh. He is watching
a waitress on the far side of the room,
and when he catches her eye he makes a
little sign with his hand. The broker
starts again:
“This is a client of mine, Mr. .”
But now Jo has turned to a dark,
foreign-looking man with heavy wrinkles
on his face, who has appeared
mysteriously at his side. Jo switches one
eye back to the broker and says:
“Just sit down at that empty table for
a moment”
The broker goes off on tiptoe. He says
into his client’s ear: “Do you know who
that is with Jo? That is Crysto
Zanthyfus.”
He looks expectant, then explains in
his dramatic manner, “Do you know
why Jo Mason always has good fish, even
when there are no fish at all on the Fish
Market? He’s in the ring with Greek.
And Crysto Zanthyfus runs the ring. Jo
has all the connections ; Jo has.”
He nods several times, and eloquently
says no more.
But now they are sitting down and a
waitress has appeared. She must be one
of those clean, honest girls Jo imports
from the cow-country. Her eyes are large
and soft grey like the eyes of a young
Jersey heifer. Her face is fresh and
innocent with a touch of lipstick because
now she is in Sydney she must do as
Rome does. Her face is bright because
she thinks that waiting in a city cafe is a
great adventure. She smiles at them, a
shy, country smile. She says softly,
breathlessly;
“What will you gentlemen order,
please?”
The broker gives the client a significant
look. This is the way to treat a customer.
He explains to her importantly (though
quite graciously): “WeTe just waiting
for Mr. Mason.”
Immediately the waitress’s face show's
him that he has made a faux pas of the
first magnitude. He says quickly to re-
deem himself, “We might as well have a
cup of coffee, because he looks as if he’ll
be busy for sofne time.”
He winks at the client. He enjoys being
caught like this. He appreciates the art in
it.
JO and the dark man have their heads
very close together. They are talking
in tense, dramatic undertones, flashing
quick, calculating glances at each other
after each sentence. The broker watches
their communing devoutly.
The waitress hesitates and glances at
the clock.
“It’s nearly lunch-time,” she says
courageously, “and our ‘Special’ is very 7
good today. Grilled undercut steak and
French salad.”
The broker shoots her a glance of un-
bounded admiration. Then he nudges the
client in high glee. This is the technique
that brings results. He gives the waitress
a fatherly smile. #
“That sounds very nice,” he says, as if
he couldn’t possibly say anything else
in the circumstances. “I’ll have your
‘Special.’ ”
The client nods, too, but his smile is a
trifle sour.
They are well into their lunch before
Jo is free. By the time they are finished
Jo is occupied with another crafty gentle-
man wearing a prodigious nose ; and a
motor-lorry is delivering a huge case
through the front door, and causing a
block which is worrying Jo very much.
The nice little waitress is giving them no
rest. Twice they have had sweets and
now another cup of coffee. Soon she is
beginning to look sorry for them.
They rush across to Jo the next time
he is free. Jo looks as it he doesn’t re-
member seeing them before, but the
broker reminds him of the “cows.” It is
very nice the way Jo smiles at them then.
He tries to talk to them, but he keeps
being interrupted. The broker hangs on
to him; he wants Jo to tell them his
history. But Jo hasn't time.
A customer is making a scene with the
cashier (who has become unbelievably
scvere-looking for an ex-dairyfarmer’s
daughter). A waitress has been called
over to explain, and a lot of people are
staring with the hungry interest of
legitimate spectators. Jo straightens it out
while the broker helps the client to look
on admiringly.
Jo comes back and looks surprised to
see them still there. He makes a de-
termined effort to give them his full
attention. The broker says quickly, “My
client here is thinking of buying the
Sunlight, and I’d like you to tell him if
you think it’s a good proposition.”
He stands back with a smugly ex-
pectant smile. Jo turns earnestly to the
client; he looks up and down him as if
he is assessing his capabilities. He leans
towards him confidentially:
“Don’t touch it,” he says in a deep,
compassionate and most impressive voice.
“Don’t go near it. It’s a hell of a place.
You’ll do your money for certain.”
BOTH the men are disconcerted. They
take a quick look at each other and
put on sickly smiles.
Jo says suddenly to the client, “What
are you in now?”
“Boots,” he answers in an ashamed
way.
“Boots!” shouts Jo. “You stick to
boots. Never go wrong with boots.
Thinking of having a crack at them my-
self.”
o Continued on page 22.)


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3697
Wednesday, December 20, 1950
“FOR WAYS THAT ARE DARK AND TRICKS THAT ARE VAIN, THE HEATHEN
CHINEE IS PECULIAR.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O ). Wellington.
MURDER AND HANGING.
The grim decision of the Victorian
Cabinet to hang three Sydney criminals
for murder has brought the usual gaggle
of soft-shelled sentimentalists out of their
lairs, the normal chorus of propaganda
against capital punishment being supple-
mented by a little extra hysteria because
a woman is included among those to be
executed. Exactly why a woman
murderer should be given favored treat-
ment in an age when women claim
equality of behavior and rewards with
men is not quite clear. Even a
“Labor” member with a little more bal-
ance than the usual run of rabble-rousers
remarked, in commenting on one appeal,
women “cannot expect to have it both
ways.”
On the general issue a visitor from
Mars reading some of the stuff which
has been published might wonder
whether the propagators of it do not be-
lieve the members of the Cabinet who
made the decision to be as much
criminals as the condemned. The
murderers all had criminal records,
though the eldest of them is only 38.
In the case of the crime for which they
now face the death penalty there was no
provocation ; there was no question of
the murder being carried out in the heat
of rage or indignation or as the result of
any hostile act or threat against the
murderers. They accepted the hospitality
of a 73-year-old s.-p. bookmaker whom
they met in a hotel and whom they dis-
covered to be possessed of a large sum of
money. Evidence was given that they
went with him to his room and
there tore up his bed sheets and
bound him with the strips. They tied his
thumbs behind his back with bootlaces,
and the evidence showed that they
tortured him for an hour in their
efforts to find out whether he had
any hidden wealth in his room, which
they thoroughly ransacked' before they
left with a roll of stolen notes. The old
fellow was found, still bound and thumb-
tied, battered to death.
Yet when a Liberal member of Parlia-
ment was asked by the Press whether he
approved of the extreme penalty for the
perpetrators of this outrage he was re-
ported to have said: “I thought that
the barbarous age was gone”—the infer-
ence being that the Executive Council
were the barbarians, not the killers.
A jury found the three guilty, and
though the Supreme Court ordered a re-
trial mainly on a point concerning con-
fessions as evidence, the High Court
unanimously upheld the Criminal Court’s
verdict.
According to the reporters, who, as
usual, extracted every ounce of sensation
out of the business with heartless disre-
gard for the shame and sufferings of
mothers and relatives who were inter-
viewed, or for the fact that their revela-
tion of the name and address of the
mother of the convicted woman might
blight the life of the latter’s 11-year-old
daughter, the three victims of justice took
the news of their coming immolation
“calmly,” as befits martyrs. But
there is nothing the criminal fears more
than hanging, and these particular
criminals must have salted their fear
of the fate which has caught up
with them with a sense of regret that
they did not choose to commit the
murder in Sydney instead of Melbourne.
The “Labor” party in the past few years
has made the death penalty the un-
pleasant plaything of politics, so
that the punishment of a brutal
murder on one side of a State line
may lead to the execution of the murderer,
while if he is discreet enough to carry
out his act of bloodshed ten yards to the
north or east he can depend on suffering
nothing worse than incarceration for a
few years in an “institution,” which in
some States is ceasing to be called a jail
and in which he will be fed like a fight-
ing-cock and have his organ-playing or
radio-choir-singing or his new novel ad-
vertised by admiring journalism.
These inequalities of criminal
opportunity and treatment are becoming
more and more disturbing and dangerous
to public peace and human life. In New
South Wales ihey have been carried to a
point by the Government, the Press
and public that the criminal sometimes
seems almost worthier than those he
preys on. Murders and felonies have be-
come so numerous that the trials of their
perpetrators arc no longer reported to the
extent they used to be, but the criminal
who does attract attention is almost as
sure of respectful fame as any negro
boxer or popular greyhound.
The social occasions of two notorious
Sydney ladies who have dealt in a variety
of criminal currency are reported at in-
tervals by Sunday papers. Operators with
“records” who marry while out on bail
receive more newspaper publicity than
some gallant soldiers who marry in
well-known churches. A thug who
attempted to murder a friendly colleague
whom he had “taken for a ride” and who
was released after a few months,
by the McGirr Government, from a none-
too-onerous confinement because he
allegedly suffered from tuberculosis and
was in danger of his life has lived to pro-
vide paragraphs about his vacations and
his wedding for readers of social journal-
ism.
Mr. Downing, Minister for “Justice” in
New South Wales, recently led a per-
sonally conducted tour of photographers
and columnists—those social lights whom
peers call always by their Christian-
names, and in whom South American
Embassies rejoice—round his “institu-
tions,” with results calculated to invite a
wholesale influx of criminals from less-
favored States where women murderers,
in for life, are not yet accorded the use
of lace .bed-covers and cut-glass rose-
bowls in their apartments.
All this contrasts strongly with the real-
istic attitude of some other States, such
as South Australia, where crime is still
crime, and where there is less of it at a
serious level because the South Austra-
lian murderer knows that his chances of
being hanged are about even, and the
robber and the burglar have plenty of
evidence that Yatala Stockade is no rest-
home.
There is no uniform justice in the Com-
monwealth, and no fixed principles of
punishment, which are governed not by
the application of a static policy uninflu-
enced by politics, as they should be, but
by the political whims of the moment.
In Britain the “Labor” party is opposed
to capital punishment and to some other
forms of penal deterrent, but while they
are part of the law they are carried out
by “Labor” in power, because to follow
any other line would be unconstitutional.
In Australia, where capital punishment
for murder is still the law in all States ex-
cept Queensland, “Labor” just as rigidly
refuses to carry out the law not only in
specific cases marked by mitigating cir-
cumstances but in all cases. In other
words, the party when in office replaces
constitutional government based on the
statutes and the common law by govern-
ment which is unconstitutional in essence
and which has no authority save a
political party platform.
It seems time that there was some
uniformity in the matter. It detracts from
the force of the law that there should be
two degrees of murder—murder com-
mitted when a “Labor” Government is in
power, and murder perpetrated when
“Labor” is in Opposition.
The death penalty, justly imposed,
should be carried out in any corner of
Australia, and all criminal law enforced
according to its inherent principles in-
stead of according to the sloppy senti-
mentality of A.L.P. branches and vote-
catching politicians. Emotion and expedi-
ency are the worst possible bases for
equity and justice, and unevenness of
penalties in different areas and in differ-
ing political circumstances is apt in
time to undermine law and order com-
pletely.
Who Governs?
Most Australians have become
conscious that this country is slipping
badly, that some dead hand has been
laid on its people’s energies, initiative in
emergency and national pride in accom-
plishment.
Evidences of this malaise are appear-
ing just as a wave of hostility against the
white race is sweeping Asia and making
ready to spill over into new areas along
lines of least resistance. The road to-
wards Australia is one of those lines. The
decline in our national morale, about
which Sir Edmund Herring has spoken,
is bad enough ; but when political
spokesmen for about half the Australian
electorate deliberately shut their ears to
this warning and hail the exponents of
the new Asiatic aggressive policy as
friends deserving sympathy, thecanker must
have eaten deeply into the national fibre.
The coming year is due to be one of
great crisis, accompanied by the
menace of a new world war. Such
a disaster is far beyond any con-
trol by Australia, except that our
domestic divisions and indifference about
the consequences cannot fail to incite an
aggressor to exploit what is clearly his
advantage. To take only one example; if
Australians no longer have the spunk to
enlist for military service at need any-
where outside Australia, why should the
Dutch undertake single-handed the
almost impossible task of defending
Western New Guinea from attack? And
should the whole body of New Guinea
follow the Vogelkopf into “Indonesia,”
and Timor and Torres Strait fall to the
same aggression, what would our hold
on North Australia be worth?
In Canberra, on appearances the
Commonwealth Executive has been kept
impotent by a Parliament chosen only
12 months ago with a mandate for a
tremendous programme of work. Actu-
ally the following in both Houses elected
to support a Government which swept the
polls with its appeal for national action
has been thwarted and obstructed in
every effort by a minority able to assert
its will solely because of an obsolete rump
left in a gerrymandered Senate to work
exactly that evil. A discredited and
vindictive “Labor” Government, knowing
that it was going down, deliberately
rigged the elections to preserve a rump
of “Laborites” of the old Senate in an
enlarged Parliament, so that even the
most overwhelming landslide against
“Labor” could not prevent its dominating
that House. Thereby the new Govern-
ment could be made impotent. Through-
out 1950 the electors have seen that dirty
business in full blast.
Australians as a result have lost a
vital year of preparation available
them to meet the coming trouble, the
Menzies Government has lost much
popularity because it has not been able
to carry out its programme, and “Labor”
has lost its honor. On this last it might
be said of “Labor’s” leaders, as Nelson
wrote of the Neapolitan officers who fled
the home field as soon as the French
appeared, that they “have not lost much
honor, for God knows they had but little
to lose ; but they lost all they had.” And
the tragedy is that the mass of the
“Labor” party does not seem to care.
The pose of its leaders is one of soliciting
applause for their cleverness in frustrat-
ing for 12 months Parliamentary govern-
ment of the country —for having used
shrewd party strategy to block any inter-
ference with the activity of Moscow’s
fifth-column in Australian industry during
a time when the Communist Power in
Moscow has been preparing its assault on
the peace of the world.
There would, of course, have been an
end to the organised obstruction by now
if Mr. Menzies had been able to get his
double-dissolution in early October. At
the last moment “Labor” squibbed the
test, and allowed the Communist-party
Dissolution Bill to pass the Senate
block.
But the “Labor” party has now
completely identified itself with the
Communists in their stand for free-
dom to sabotage Australian industry
and morale; and the ground is
well prepared for the unions, in their
turn, to rise in revolt, with political
“Labor’s” support guaranteed in advance,
against any attempt to enforce the legis-
lative ban against the Communist union
bosses. The damage to Australia’s security
could not have been more whole-
heartedly pursued by declared enemies of
the Commonwealth.
Everything now depends on the poli-
tical intelligence of Australian voters.
The success of “Labor” tactics in
denying the national Government
the right to govern—which was and
is the plain purpose behind it all —has
made certain that 1951 will be a year
of political and economic upheaval here
at home, however dark the prospects for
international peace abroad. When Par-
liament rose the “Labor” obstruction
machine was in full operation against
three other measures —the Bank Bill,
the Senate Elections Bill and (greatest
offence of all) the National Service Bill
—all of which have been shelved by the
non - representative majority in the
Senate. This is not legitimate party
opposition ; it is an outrage on democracy
and the public safety.
In effect the Menzies Government has
been denied any freedom whatever to
tackle the overshadowing domestic
problem of inflation of costs of living.
It has been denied co-operation in that
task by the Senate, by “Labor” hostility
inside and outside Parliament, and by the
A.C.T.U., taking its cue from the Parlia-
mentary obstructionists. There has
been no possibility of increasing pro-
duction, of enlisting the necessary union
help in improving the disgracefully low
return for high wages in essential goods
and services, while “Labor” leaders were
demoralising the unions with the cry that
the Communist interests in smashing the
anti-Red bill were “Labor’s” own intimate
interests. The absentee stoppages in the
coalmines, the shameful slowing-down
on the wharves, the transport strikes, the
threats to use force by half a dozen
unions against employers, the arbitration
system, and the community alike, the
blackmailing union demands for eyer-
higher wages in deliberate aggravation
of inflation in order to make difficulties
for the Government —these have all been
unmistakable witnesses of the “Labor”
interest in boosting inflation, not com-
bating it. The nature of that interest is
revealed no less clearly by the persistence
of Dr. Evatt, acting-leader of this cam-
paign on the political side in jeering at the
Government for “its failure to arrest
inflation”!
It seems clear now that the Prime
Minister would have forced the issue to
a double-dissolution even in the short
time before Christmas but for the need
for his going overseas during the
Christmas week to the urgent conference
on imperial defence measures, which has
called all Dominion Prime Ministers to
London. Mr. Menzies’s first job on his
return must be to settle the supreme
question in Australia, namely, whether
his Government shall be allowed to
govern in accordance with the verdict of
the polls. Parliament cannot be called
together too early in the new year to
meet this challenge. The Prime Minister
has said three times lately that he will
resign rather than submit to this denial
of his Government, elected by over-
whelming majority of the people, to be
responsible for its own legislation.
That there must be a double-dissolu-
tion early in 1951 is inevitable. The
elections will be an opportunity also for
a secret ballot on the nation-wide strikes
being prepared in support of the new
“Labor” creed that when “Labor” is de-
feated at elections no other party Gov-
ernment shall be allowed to function.
That also is a leaf taken straight out of
the Communist-party book.
Thoughts on Christmas.
Humanity has been endowed with one
or two, or maybe three or four, attributes
which prevent us from becoming a lot of
raving lunatics with suicidal tendencies.
One is the capacity to laugh, another is
the way in which we quickly forget pain
and easily remember pleasure, a third is
the effect of example upon us, a fourth
is the ability to be generous.
The effect of example was never more
patent than during these present days.
All over the country we are affected by
the example of others. A sort of con-
tagion has spread and sent us all forth
into the streets, carrying in our minds
visions of relatives and friends, and in
our pockets money with which to buy
tokens of our appreciation of them. And
it is extraordinary how reckless we be-
come. What man or woman hasn’t gone
out with a fixed determination not to
spend more than 6s. lid. on a present
for Uncle Jack or Bill Smith or the wife’s
mother or Mr. Jones and then seen the
very thing marked at 9s. 4d., hovered
about it, thought hard and then bought
it, trying at the same time to see where a
shilling or two could be saved some other
way?
Generosity gets free rein at Christmas-
time. Oh, we know the prices are high.
We see glaring rackets in the shops. We
complain about the commercialisation of
giving and the Christmas spirit. We swear
about blackmarket beer and poultry that
costs more than racehorses at 6s. a
pound, we feel like murdering somebody
when the gift we bought turns out to be
shoddy, and we mutter darkly about the
retail trade. But our generosity is con-
tent with that; it doesn’t go as far as to
refrain from buying gifts, except where
the impost is too glaring to be suffered.
Let us admit at once that this business
of giving at Christmas is a two-way affair.
Ten-bob spent on a gift for someone is
more than returned by the warmth of their
handshake or the light in their eyes.
Even the person who buys a gift as a matter
of policy suddenly realises that it has been
accepted in the prevailing spirit and is all
the less mean and calculating for that.
In brief, it does us a dashed lot of good
to make gifts.
Despite the commercialism and other
unpleasant things associated with it, the
Christmas carnival is a good thing in the
world. It is a happy climax to each year,
and we have cherished it in the midst of
war and drought, flood and fire and hard
times, and wifi go on cherishing it to the
end. As far as Australia is concerned we
all become one in the tradition of Christ-
mas for a few days. If only we could get
something of it into our national life
throughout the year, what a country this
would be!.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Youth in a Mad World.
When the retiring headmaster of Sydney
Grammar School, Mr. F. G. Phillips, told
the annual speech-day audience that it
was a national calamity for boys to leave
school without having gained a taste for
hard work, he was summing up the feel-
ings of teachers throughout the Common-
wealth.
“It is a mad world,” said Mr. Phillips,
“when boys can receive as much as £8
a week immediately on leaving school.
The road to success is becoming an easy
slide instead of a climb.” He was re-
ferring, of course, to material success,
that false god which is a twin brother to
the equally false one called “social
security.”
The teacher finds himself striving to
save his pupils against temptations that
are almost too much. Tragically few
parents have either the desire or the will
to make their sons understand that “big
money” is a snare; even where both
exist the parent himself, caught in the
inflationary spiral, finds it hard to resist
the relief which that £8 or more brings
to the family finances.
Indirectly Mr.. Phillips referred to what
was here said (B. 29 /11 / ’5O) when he
declared that “Education is becoming
vulgarised,” and that, “In the search for
equality we are achieving only medi-
ocrity.” The Socialist theory seems to
be that equality shall be rammed down
our necks whether we like it or not, and
one way it is done is by reducing the
margins of rewards for skill and enter-
prise until it no longer pays to display
either.
There is a dreadful awakening in store
for boys and youths who suppose that
the country can go on paying dispro-
portionately high wages for unskilled
work or for irresponsibles in employ-
ment. Only a fool would suppose that
employment conditions of the present can
continue, and only a fool would suppose
that “social security” can be attained for
the individual except by his own effort.
More should be heard from Mr.
Phillips and all who think as he does.
The trouble is that the nation’s ears,
especially its youthful ears, are so sub-
ject to a constant blare of blatherskite
and nonsense that the voice of common-
sense is drowned in the general babble.
But that is no reason why commonsense
should remain silent.
Stuck In a Tunnel.
Sydney had another example of the de-
crepitude of its essential services and the
ineptitude of some of its civil servants
last Friday night. The overcrowded
5.50 p.m, train from Wynyard broke
down in the tunnel of the under-
ground railway that leads to the
Harbor Bridge. For \\ hpurs passengers
stood or sat and sweltered in this tunnel
without having a clue as to what was
going on. Those who left the train to
walk back through the tunnel were told
by officials not to do so.
When the train emerged from the
tunnel it broke down again, and hundreds
of passengers scaled the fences on each
side of the track, some attempting to
hitchhike from the Bridge approaches,
others walking right across the Bridge to
Milson’s Point and attempting to hitch-
hike from there. Many of them were dis-
persed from the roadside by police.
Elderly men and women, mothers with
babies, as well as the more agile, left this
first train, scaled high barriers and walked
to Milson’s Point. The Bridge footway
itself was partly cbstructed by a variety
of pipes, cables, tins, drums and barriers
left there by repair gangs.
Between the first train and Wynyard
were more trains. In attempting to
shove the first one, they broke down.
Between Wynyard and Town Hall still
more trains were held up in the tunnel.
And the thousands of people who didn’t
leave these trains were cooped up for
more than three hours. The air became
so foul and stifling that the draught
created by a train passing along the other
track felt like air-conditioning.
Nobody seemed to know what was
going on. Some of the officials, like the
guard on the first train, were courteous
and good-humored. Others were abusive
and wore a couldn’t-care-less air. So
uncertain was everyone about whether the
trains could move or not that it is
fortunate there were not casualties and
loss of life when the trains did move.
This debacle and what it revealed
about N.S.W. Government transport de-
ficiencies is not an isolated case. On the
same North Shore line in the past
eighteen months there have been at least
three major breakdowns. In every case
it has taken an hour or more for
passengers at some departing stations to
be advised as to what has happened.
Trains have continued to leave stations
behind the breakdown area laden with
passengers, until miles of line have be-
come chock-a-block with trains and
stranded passengers who should never
have been allowed to get on the trains.
Wynyard station itself is a disgrace. It
appears to possess no loudspeaker
system. Often there are blockages at the
ticket-barriers because there are not
enough collectors. Even during the
formality of inspecting tickets of incom-
ing passengers there is often a sea of
people banked up back to the bookstall.
Obviously where there isn’t enough
staff to cope with ticket-examination and
-collection, passengers should be allowed
free ingress and egress.
The Commissioner for Railways, Mr.
Garside, should not be singled out as the
scapegoat. All the transport tsars should
be paraded. But the chief culprit is the
McGirr Government and all it stands
for. Like all “Labor” Governments it
has bought votes by squandering inheri-
tances of past hard work and thrift,
bribing the electorate with “social
amenities” and “working conditions”
which the country cannot afford. It has
done nothing to add to the nation’s work-
ing assets or resources. Railways and
power-supply services have not been
maintained, and civil-servants and other
wage-earners, instead of doing their job,
have tended to become loafers and
larrikins, and, in some cases, thieves.
In any case, if it is considered by
N.S.W. railway experts—if there are any
—that breakdowns of last week’s kind
are unavoidable, then all suburban trains
should be equipped with lavatories.
Some previously festive gentlemen on the
first overloaded train had to suffer the
indignity of publicly relieving themselves
after they had been in the tunnel for only
an hour. What women and children con-
fined to stifling carriages for three hours
had to put up with can be imagined.
Peter Fraser Passes.
Most newspapers described Peter Fraser,
who died on December 12, as “dour,” but
it was scarcely an apt description. He was
a lean Rosshire Highlander—as he re-
marked himself, “from the same region
as the Loch Ness monster, for which the
Opposition sometimes mistakes me.” He
was, like most of his clan, more of
Norman than Highland type, but with
plenty of oatmeal in his accent, and that
independence of character for which
those of the name have always been noted
in Scotland. Son of the village cobbler
in the Fearn, he made his own education
even before he emigrated to Maoriland at
26 in 1910. He worked as a wharflaborer
in Wellington in the formative days of
union organisation. In Scotland first a
Liberal and then a member of the
1.L.P., he established himself in N.Z.
“Labor” politics as an anti-conscriptionist
during the First World War, and in
1918 won a House of Assembly seat,
which he retained with little opposition
till his death.
When the Savage Government took
office in 1935 he was deputy-leader, and
chose the Ministry of Education. Few at
that stage would have taken him seriously
as a successor to Mr, Savage, but by the
time Savage died in 1940 he had estab-
lished an ascendancy over the party and
had dual strength in that a large section of
the non-Labor part of the community had
sensed that his anti-conscription views
were of a very different type and purpose
from those voiced by a large section of
Australian “Labor.” He quickly estab-
lished himself as Prime Minister and as
the unchallenged war leader of N.Z. a
the dark days after the fall of France, and
when he visited London (in 1941) after the
debacle of Greece those who had sus-
pected his .Socialism were pleasantly sur-
prised to find that he combined a calm
and confident view of a desperate-looking
situation with a determination to use
every resource of the Dominion to win
the war. He led the N.Z. delegation to
the San Francisco conference in 1945.
No man worked harder during the suc-
ceeding years, and no man carrying such
responsibilities was more cheerful or
more confident, despite his • outward
appearance of chilliness, which was
largely compounded of fatigue. His
achievement in keeping his grip of office
was the greater because, from the start
in the Prime-Ministership, he had to face
the bitter opposition of the Communists
and the Left sections of the big unions.
With these he eventually came to a show-
down over the compulsory-training
issue last year after a visit to England
convinced him of the dangers ahead and
the need for instant military preparation.
Votes of no confidence in his proposals
left him unmoved, and he split the party
seriously rather than give way.
It was a triumph for him that he was
able to carry first the Cabinet and then
the country with him on defence in the
subsequent referendum. But with a party
behind him which had been in office for
15 years and with failing health largely
the result of unremitting hard work and
self-sacrifice and a continual running
fight with the extremists in his own ranks,
he was unable to lead his divided follow-
ing to victory in 1949.
Only 66 when he died, he was a worn-
out man who had extended himself to the
limit during his last few years of life,
knowing well what the price would be.
Trades Hall In Society.
Victoria’s Governor and his lady set
some tongues wagging the other day after
they had attended by invitation a union
social at Melbourne Trades Hall, and
“made trades-hall history,” as one news-
paper report supposed.
This is not historically correct. Years
ago a certain Governor of S.A. made a
precedent for inviting trades-hall repre-
sentatives to dinner at Government
House, and the occasion was one for the
friendliest informality, as witness the
story about the hot ice-cream pudding
and the hollow teeth. The Victorian
Shop Assistants’ Union did the hall up
in style for their Christmas social, and
the vice-regal participation in it produced
the heaviest roll-up for years. Somebody
on the committee essayed early to
apologise for “restrictions on accommo-
dation,” but the Governor wasn’t receiv-
ing apologies for anything, and the con-
cluding supper went with a bang.
What the gathering appreciated best
was the Governor’s refusal to treat his
accepting hospitality at the Trades Hall
as anything extraordinary at all. Why
should it be? If there was any special
point in it that might be construed as
vice - regal patronage, probably his
Excellency could be seen as making some
acknowledgment, on behalf of the mass
of the people, to a body of workers who
carry one of the biggest burdens of the
strain in the Christmas season.
This sort of thing can do a lot in
lubricating the wheels of modern indus-
trial life, and there ought to be more
of it.
Two Viewpoints.
Events connected with the restoration of
the so-called “jungle girl” of Singapore
to her lawful guardians, her parents,
should give food for thought to those
politicians who are trying to reform the
world on a basis of equality of ideas and
principle with Asia. The events should
provide very telling evidence, if there is
not enough already, that Asiatic standards
are very different from European ones,
and that anybody in, say, U.N.O. who
thinks that words mean the same in
Malaya, India or China as they do in
Washington, Westminster and Canberra
has another think coming. It is quite
clear that there are two sets of human
values —one for the West and one for the
East.
The girlish romanticism of editors who
are never quite themselves in the presence
of young “luv” has somewhat obscured
the facts of the Hertogh case, many of
the most important of them being
altogether omitted from the reports. One
was that the girl has a father, that he
was a prisoner-of-war when she, almost
a babe, was handed by her mother to
the care of a Malay nurse who elected
to regard her as a present to be adopted
permanently. According to the mother’s
story she had left the child with the nurse
temporarily and fell into the hands of
the Japanese before she could recover her.
The father, the legal guardian, certainly
gave no consent to the youngster’s
adoption ; he knew nothing of it, since
he was in a Japanese prison-camp. It is
into his custody, via the mother, that
the court at Singapore has given the girl.
But all the newspapers seem to have for-
gotten him —fathers are so unromantic
that they cannot generate a sigh in the
breast of an editor.
Another phase of the affair which has
been distorted is the Moslem marriage of
the little girl, aged 13. As chronicled
in the dailies (with pictures), it seemed
that the bridegroom was a victim of love’s
young dream, and his protestations of
eternal faith and devotion were given
much more prominence than the fact that,
under Singapore law, as under most other
civilised European law, a woman marries
according to the law of her domicile,
which in the young lady’s case involved
her as a minor obtaining the consent of
her legal guardian. As for the bride-
groom, his affection for her developed
very suddenly, for, according to the
Supreme Court judgment, he “first
appeared on the scene after two visits to
York Hill Home (where Maria stayed
during the earlier legal proceedings) as
one of the parties to a discreditable
manoeuvre which resulted within three
days in an invalid marriage with a child
of 13.”
So far from being horrified, however,
the Moslem and Communist world of
Singapore fully supported these curious
proceedings, and during an appeal from
the judge’s decision expressed their par-
tisanship in riots outside the court which
resulted in 17 deaths, 15 wounded and
about 200 injured, all those who suffered
having not the remotest connection with
the events against which the hysterical
disorders were a protest.
Australians who still remember the
death of a young man killed by a stray
police shot at Rothbury 20 years ago, an
“outrage” which raises savage vitupera-
tion on Communist platforms, might make
a close study of what has happened in
Singapore. Events there are especially
commended to the attention of amateur
diplomats like Messrs. Spender and Evatt
who profess to believe that the dangers
confronting Western civilisation from
Asia may be removed by giving Asiatics
another handful or so of rice, pants in
place of dhotis and treatment as equals in
thought, influence, outlook and ideals.
"No Appeasement."
While the British Prime Minister is de-
claring on all sides that there will be no
appeasement of aggressors in Asia or
anywhere else, the truculence of the
Chinese Communist delegate. General
Wu, at U.N.O. confirms the impression
that he has been waxing fat on appease-
ment prospects ever since he reached
New York,
Two months ago, when the North
Koreans refused General Mac Arthur’s
invitation to surrender—the U.N. forces
had then driven north of the 38th
Parallel—the British Government agreed
with Washington that an advance into
North Korea was inevitable. British dele-
gates at U.N.O. got a resolution carried
by 48 votes to five for the creation of “a
single united sovereign State of Korea.”
Then the Chinese Communist armies
weighed in and reversed the situation.
Now the British Prime Minister will, he
says, be content if the U.N. forces can
maintain themselves on the 38th Parallel
and negotiate a cease-fire with the
aggressors in that position. He says he
and President Truman are agreed on this
policy. If the Western Powers can get
their cease-fire, they will obviously have
to bargain for it.
This British Commonwealth foreign
policy of “supporting U.N.0.” as a sub-
stitute for armed strength inevitably leads
us all into this sort of mess. The “Man-
chester Guardian” sees the same weak-
ness in Australian foreign policy (so
called). It declares there is no sense in it
as revealed in the dispute over New
Guinea.
When the Indonesians were fighting des-
perately against the Dutch the Australians
were their champions before the United
Nations. They acquired great goodwill in
Indonesia. They have now thrown much
of it away.
Thrown it away, that is, because we buck
at West New Guinea being handed over
to Indonesia on truculent demand, to
become another North Korea! The
“Manchester Guardian” thinks the Aus-
tralian Government is only “making
things difficult.” But it would, of course,
insist that it is against “appeasement” of
demands made under arms.
Anglo-American Achievement
Suspension virtual termination of
dollar aid to Britain under the Marshall
Plan is an event of immense significance.
Thanks to a co-operative effort under a
noble scheme for rebuilding world trade
by means of American subsidising of
European self-help, Britain is leading the
way out of the wood, and the success in
restoring the British economy must be
an inspiration to every other nation
within the European Recovery Pro-
gramme.
In April, 1948, when Marshall Aid
began, it was planned to operate for four
years. The British people, their economy
badly hit by the ravages of a long war,
were offered no prospects of being able
to stand on their own feet even by that
time ; but the call was for heroic mea-
sures, including a struggle to contribute
from boosted British production help to
continental Europe, and the country
buckled itself to the task.
It is a wonderful achievement for a war-
exhausted and undernourished people
that, accepting an indefinite term of
“austerity,” they should have come out,
nearly independent of further dollar aid,
one year and seven months before the
putative deadline set under the E.R.P.
scheme. “Nearly independent,” because
while the British recovery owes much to
o Continued on next page.)


•*A>.
. , .
They satisfy
in every way . • •
CRAVENA
SIR
6659
CARRERAS LIMITED
OVER 150 YEARS REFUTATION FOR QUALITY
increased prices of raw materials pro-
duced in the sterling area, the same in-
crease is expected to rebound upon prices
of British exports and so upon the ability
of Britain to hold her regained export
trade. Moreover, the new heavy com-
mitments on British rearmament have sent
Britain at once to seek dollar-aid on
that score, especially as the suspension
of Marshall Aid was by mutual agree-
ment.
There was no question of “honor or
dollars” against U.S.A. in 1947 such as
was raised after World War I. The
Americans recognised that Britain’s long
holding of the fort single-handed against
Hitler before lend-lease relief arrived had
cost her £6OO million of gold and dollar
reserves and £420 million of dollar
securities. The end of the war left
Britain, through loss of her former in-
visible earnings, with a deterioration in
her international balance of payments by
£450 millions a year, a 25 per cent, de-
terioration in trading capacity and the
impoverishment of her European trading
customers. From this position there could
be no recovery without a great increase
of dollar imports. The Marshall Aid
scheme for Britain and Western Europe
was the statesmanlike answer, and the
American-subsidised self-help procedure
thereunder was prescribed by the agree-
ment which launched the European Re-
covery Programme.
At the end of the first year “the whole
economic scene in Western Europe,” in
the British Prime Minister’s words, “was
transformed to a degree which must
astonish all of us,” a result he acknow-
ledged as a result of “the generosity and
far-sightedness of the people and Govern-
ment of the United States.” During late
1949 the way became clear for the re-
moval of many import restrictions and a
freeing of intra-European exchange pay-
ments.
With the second year’s instalment of
Marshall Aid the total of dollar funds
allotted to Britain amounted to 2417
million, of which 332 million was in the
form of a loan on which interest and
amortisation payments will begin in 1956.
Now with the third year half-way through
the British Government has been able to
announce that “Marshall Aid is no longer
a requisite to our economy.”
The achievement is not diminished in
importance by the call for a new exacting
effort in rearmament. Indeed, it points
to co-operation as the only satisfactory
means of tackling that job also.
POLITICAL POINTS
Most disillusioned men in Canberra
this Christmas are the staff men at Par-
liament House who carried out bottled
beer by the dozen for departing members
and then found there was none left for
themselves.
In declaring a state of national emer-
gency in the United States President
Truman did not mince words or attempt
to talk diplomatic language. He named
Communist Russia and China as
aggressors and said that the Soviet rulers
had “tried to undermine or overwhelm
the free nations one by one.” He an-
nounced the calling-up of another
1,000,000 men and the intention of in-
creasing the armed forces to million
within a short time. There is to be price-
control of goods essential to defence, a
certain amount of wage-pegging, plane
and tank production are to be stepped
up immediately and industry is to be
“fully mobilised” for defence. Short of
war the President could not have gone
much further, and, although he hopes the
mad business will stop short of war, he
made it clear that his country will not
shirk the conflict if Russia is determined
to tread the Hitler path.
The British Prime Minister was not so
forthright as Truman in his Saturday-
night broadcast. His speech showed that
he hasn’t altogether escaped from wish-
ful thinking, but he left no doubt that
if a showdown comes Britain will stand
beside the United States. Unfortunately,
apart from words, he made no attempt
to close the ranks at home ; a decision,
for instance, to postpone steel-nationalisa-
tion would have been an earnest that the
Government recognised that the world
situation was too grave to permit of divi-
sion on the home front. But no ; Attlee
and Co., while warning of the menace of
the Socialist Fatherland, go blithely along
the road to making Britain a Socialist
State.
Attlee doesn’t believe the Chinese
people want war. No people want war,
but that doesn’t make any difference if
the Chinese leaders and the Russian
leaders want it. The Chinese “volun-
teers” didn’t necessarily want to go into
North Korea —but they’re there.
Partly as a result of Soviet propa-
ganda and partly through overexuberant
American publicity on the horror side
of the atom bomb, many people are
urging that the Western Powers should
agree not to use it unless it is first used
against them. The suggestion is reminis-
cent of the story of the French and Eng-
lish commanders who delayed the com-
mencement of the battle because each
chivalrously insisted on allowing the
other side the first volley—but, unfor-
tunately, Russia doesn’t play under those
rules. Churchill, as usual, gave the best
summing-up of this school of thought:
“That means you must never fire until
you have been shot dead.”
Hearing of the Red Bill appeal is ex-
pected to finish this week. It is not
thought that the High Court will call
President Truman as a witness, though
some of his remarks on the Communist
menace could almost have been taken
from the recitals to the Act.
The Chifley Government’s Shipping
Act condemned all Australian ships to
the scrapheap at the age of 25. Morgan,
“Labor” M.H.R. for Reid, apparently
hasn’t heard of this ; he is urging Menzies
to buy the Aorangi, 26 last birthday.
Attacking Percy Spender for “a long
trail of strong statements supporting the
Dutch position in New Guinea,” the
“Manchester Guardian” complains that
he has made things difficult for a Dutch-
Indonesian settlement, and concludes ‘Tt
is hard to make sense of Australian policy
on New Guinea.” By “Dutch-Indonesian
settlement” the “Guardian” apparently
means the surrender of Dutch New
Guinea to Indonesia. That may make
sense in Manchester ; it doesn’t here.
J. A. Ferguson has been reported as
saying that strikes are outmoded. Better
late than never, but it is to be hoped
that he’ll go on saying it —to the A.R.U.,
of which he is N.S.W. secretary, and
Federal vice-president; to the N. S. Wales
“Labor” party, of which he is president;
to the Federal “Labor” party, of which
he is also president; above all to the
triennial conference of the A.L.P., due
to meet early in the New Year.
The British Conservatives lost a good
man when Oliver Stanley died last week.
In his 26 years in the Commons, first
as member for Westmoreland and, since
1945, for Bristol West, he held several
portfolios—Transport, Labor, Education,
Board of Trade, War (1940) and the
Colonies —and had in recent years become
the party spokesman on finance. Port-
folios are a habit with the Stanleys; for
over 100 years no Conservative Cabinet
has been complete without a member of
the family. Oliver’s father, 17th Earl of
Derby, served under Salisbury, Balfour,
Lloyd George, Bonar Law and Baldwin ;
the 14th earl was three times Prime
Minister.
Jessie Street and her team of “Aus-
tralian peace partisans,” after a three-
weeks visit to Russia, described the
Soviet as “the most gigantic force for
peace to be found anywhere in the
world.” Richard Jones, former editor of
the British Embassy magazine, “British
Ally,” in Moscow, wrote this of a team
of British trade-unionists who toured
Russia:
I have seen a list of the places they
visited. They may be interested to know
that they saw exactly what Mao Tse-tung
and his Chinese henchmen saw; what the
Hungarian, Rumanian, Bulgarian and all
the other visitors from the satellite coun-
tries were shown They saw just what
the Soviet authorities wanted them to see
and nothing more. And they returned home
with the same glowing accounts of their
visit as can be read in all countries east
of the Iron Curtain.
Jessie promises that her party “will raise
their voices throughout Australia in the
interests of world peace and Soviet-Aus-
tralian friendship.” Nobody doubts they’ll
raise their voices.
Feminists are on an awkward spot
in the matter of the death-penalty on
Jean Lee. Equal rights for men and
women surely include the right to be
hanged?
A. P. Rowe, vice-chancellor of Adelaide
’Varsity, spoke sound sense when he
warned high-school students about to
leave school against the knockers who
would tell them “Don’t produce too
much or you’ll be out of a job.” That
slogan is a relic of depression days which
still clouds much “Labor” thinking on
the subject of production, but the Reds
who are mainly responsible for preaching
it today are not concerned with keeping
men in jobs ; their purpose is to keep
production down. “Labor” men who
repeat the specious advice are merely
playing Moscow’s game. Rowe also told
the lads to have faith in themselves and
their country and not to shirk responsi-
bility and leadership. Good advice, never
more needed than now.
Salary-grabs are having repercussions
in two States. In Queensland, where
Assemblymen voted themselves an extra
£325 p.a., bringing their screws up to
£1375, two Liberals, Bruce Pie and
Bjelke-Petersen, have refused to take the
extra dough on the ground that no party
advocated it at the last elections. Pie is
resigning from the party and from Parlia-
ment. In Victoria last week the secretary
of the Liberal-Country party announced
that members of his party would hand
over to charity the “cost-of-living allow-
ance” of just under £4 a week, the grant-
ing of which was one of the last pre-
Christmas acts of the Victorian Parlia-
ment. Individual L.-C.P. men denied
that there had been any agreement; party-
leader Hollway said members were not
committed to follow the secretary’s an-
nouncement ; Premier McDonald offered
to establish a trust fund into which the
unwanted money could be paid.
The N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation has
been screaming about an “educational
crisis” and calling on the State and
Federal Governments to build more
schools, get more teachers and bring in
a “new deal” for education. Unfortu-
nately for all the genuine educationists in
the teaching' service, nobody takes this
Federation seriously, knowing it is run
by Communists, all of whose works are
subject to the gravest suspicion. When
the teachers kick the Communists out of
their organisation they may get the
public—and the Governments —to listen.
Presumably as an incentive to recruits
for the Army, Navy and Air Force, a
boxing and wrestling display was staged
in Sydney’s Martin-place last Friday.
Thousands watched four three-round
slugging matches and a two-round
wrestling go, all performed in the blaz-
ing sun by fine types of Australians. At
the finish the National Anthem was
played and there was a concerted rush
by thousands of young men—back to
their offices, pubs and Christmas shop-
ping.
In America striking railwaymen re-
turned to work the morning after the
head of the Government appealed to
them to do so. It took the Victorian
railwaymen over seven weeks to make
up their minds.
The British House of Commons
adjourned last week until January 23,
but special arrangements have been made
to call it together earlier in case of
emergency. That there is unlikely to be
one is taken for granted in some quarters,
especially since Mr. Churchill has gone
to North Africa “for a month.”
It’s an ill wind that blows nobody any
good. Tram-drivers, conductors and
conductresses are to receive a bonus of
£8 at Christmas for climbing over and
under passengers, and driving their trams
through the extraordinary maze of
traffic during the train strike. The Tram-
ways Employees’ Association is asking
the board to extend the bonus to main-
tenance men and workshop employees.
The Citizens’ Association is talking of
asking the board to extend the bonus to
all tram-users.
When the Indonesian Finance Minister,
Sjafruddin Prawriranegara, arrived in
New York after talks at The Hague, he
predicted that if the negotiations with
Holland failed “feeling against the Dutch
will boil up again in all Indonesia.” That
sounds more like a threat than a
prophecy. Kettles don’t boil without
someone to stoke the fire. The average
Javanese didn’t care two hoots about New
Guinea until Soekarno started going
around addressing “spontaneous” gather-
ings.
In the New Year Menzies proposes to
amend the Arbitration Act to make pro-
vision for secret ballots in union affairs.
That is to say, he intends to bring in a
bill for that purpose; what its fate will
be at the hands of the Senate no one
can say until the Outside Dozen considers
the measure and tells Chifley and Co. to
tell caucus to tell “Labor” Senators how
to vote.
Nothing could be more typical of the
Australian outlook than the remark of a
high Government official’s wife that while
abroad she observed “tremendous forests
which result in extraordinary waste of
land in Germany.” To too many Aus-
tralians any land which doesn’t grow
sheep or wheat, carry a racecourse or a
State housing-commission “project” is an
“extraordinary waste.” As for trees, such
vegetables are a blot on the landscape.
Hanson Baldwin, military editor of
New York “Times,” advocates calling up
all youths of 18 for 27 months’ training;
Field-Marshal Montgomery urges two
years’ training for all Atlantic Pact
nations. Menzies’s very limited scheme
of military training for Australian youths
is, thanks to “Labor,” put on the shelf
until next July.


FIE
"A man has taken 20 live fleas to
Sydney University for scientific
study."
/%&.
V* A
J/r
O
Quesr.
"Sydney Grammar’s Headmaster
(F. G. Phillips) says 'lt is a mad
world when boys can receive as
much as eight pounds a week
immediately on leaving school.
The road to success is becoming
an easy slide, instead of a climb.' "
"A Sydney 'Herald' authority has advised
readers how to pick fender Christmas
chickens, but adds: 'With a dressed bird it's
much harder to tell.'''
I*
< /
( SfiU R2NT
Bfcueve it's,,/
&MTft CIAOS.
v<f
'Hou) MOCB IS IT" (SxjZPr\ tl
TO •MAGN&tiSE I
"The staff at Federal Parlia*
ment House has missed out on
its Christmas beer issue, and
blames M.Ps., who have gone
into recess, for taking the lot.'*
"Lisa Lengyel, red • haired
American, turns bashful men
into 'magnetic males' for a fee
*f £90."
TOUGH AND TENDER CHICKEN.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Ray Whiting: The Digger found
himself in the amber makings of a decent
sort of do with his brother-in-law and an
m.o. who’d been best man at his wedding,
but while he was a humble sergeant the
others were half-colonels. This was more
or less o.k. in the vine-draped wog cafe
by the Beirut wayside, but when they
yearned for a change from Almaza and
the liquid gelignite known as local brandy
to a spot of dinkum Scotch at the officers’
club a slight problem arose —the
sergeant’s hooks. It was solved by the
m.o.’s greatcoat
with its crowns
and pips, and if
Admiral Cun-
ningham or
either of the
Tommy brigs
who joined the
party thought it
odd that one of
the Aussie
officers should
retain his heavy
coat on a warm
evening while the perspiration cascaded
down his puce face, they were too well-
mannered to remark on it. Not even the
sergeant’s several flights to the showers
brought the slightest change of ex-
pression, and it wasn’t until the seventh
for the road was down the hatch that
one of the brigs, with a twinkling eye in
a dead-pan dial, remarked to the three-
hooker “By the way, old man, if you
don’t mind my saying so, your tailor’s a
whizz!”
“Hold everything—Fanny Smith says she'll have me after all!"
“Craiser”; There was something
indecent in the world-wide excitement
over the fact that the Earl of Essex had
departed on his honeymoon from Seattle,
U.S., under the illusion that he had been
properly married when as a matter of
fact he wasn’t. There was another
occasion when the same peer apparently
did not consult a legal document as
closely as he should have done. This
got him into trouble with the inhabitants
of Jamieson, the pretty Victorian town-
ship where he owns a property on the
Jamieson River, a fine trout stream.
When the earl bought the property he
assumed that, according to British
practice, he owned the stream on which
it abutted, and he started turning off
anglers who had fished there for decades.
One day he marched one up to the police-
station, to be told that the stream
belonged to the State, and if persons
wanted to fish it he couldn’t prevent
them.
* * * *
“Eve”: He’s a melancholy cow at the
best of times, but today he almost smiled.
“My misery is halved,” he told me.
“How d’you mean?” I said. He jerked
his thumb to the fun-parlor across the
street. “Prices have gone up,” he ex-
plained. “The juke-box over there only
plays once- for sixpence now instead of
twice.”
* * * *
“Ben Ari”: All kinds of chemical
potions to combat the Argentine-ants are
being vigorously marketed in W.A., but
none I’ve seen could be as effective as
my cousin’s treatment. His parents were
away on holidays, and the kitchen was
stacked with assorted wine- and grog-
bottles (empty), unwashed plates and ex-
posed food. Came the dreaded
Argentines, and when they took over we
got out. But we didn’t take it lying
down. Sweeping and crushing the menace
with Army boots and unrelenting vigor,
throwing burning paper on the ant-
blackened linoleum and squirting fly-
spray all proved ineffective. Then we
borrowed a neighbor’s three-quarter-inch
hose. The bottles floated out on the
flood and the ants were completely
immersed. It fixed the Argentines all
right, but Auntie wouldn’t believe our
story about the exceptional summer heat
warping the lino.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”; The walloping of the
P.M.G. messenger by a schoolteacher, in
mistake for a pupil, had a more piquant
parallel at a Brisbane public baths, which
was hired for an hour each week by a
G.P.S. conducted under religious auspices.
The task of getting the boys out when
time was up was always difficult, and on
one occasion the ire of an ordained form-
master was roused by the sight of what
he took to be one of his charges still
disporting when all the others were
dressing. Reaching over the edge of the
pool the clerical dominie brought his good
right hand down in a resounding smack
where it would do most good. What the
owner of the smitten hindquarters, a
flapper who had slipped in for her dip
immediately the baths were vacated by
the G.P.S., said to the startled pedagogue
remains a purple patch of my schoolday
memory.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: That German sense
of humor (B. 8/11/’50)? A Westralian
p.-0.-w. remembers doing a perish in a
snowstorm, clad in shorts and singlet,
while the well-covered German guards
spoke words of admiration for “you
tough Australians. If we Germans went
about like that we’d feel cold.” Later,
working on a Bavarian farm, he met
kindness, but little humor. Once he was
sent out to prune apple-trees. Why it
was assumed that he’d know what to do
isn’t quite obvious, but he did his best.
He’d seen pruners operating on street-
trees in Perth suburbs, and he followed
suit. The apple-trees were big, and he
lopped about a wagonful off each of them.
Seems he did the wrong thing, because
when the farmer and his family viewed
the trees the women fell to their knees
“Just a few Christmas decorations for the office ."
in prayer while the infuriated cocky
pursued him around the paddock with
a hoe. No one who saw those trees
chuckled—or even smiled.
* * * *
“Mikyo”: A hatless brigade (B.
13/12/’5O) started among medical
students in Dublin some years before
World War I. Felt hats were readily
pawnable, and with Guinness at a trey an
imperial pint many young “gintlemen”
could not see the sense of carrying 20 or
30 of them about on their heads. The
explanation to parents of the absence of
head-covering was “Oh, I’ve joined the
hatless brigade ”
* * * *
“Eight Bells”: Interested, after 30-odd
years, to hear news of the Shellal Mosaic
(B. 25/10/’5O). I was camped near the
spot with the 10th Light Horse when the
senior padre of the Anzac Mounted
Division, Maitland Woods, was supervis-
ing the removal of the floor, which was
to be taken up in sections for transfer to
Australia. The Turks had dug a trench
through the floor, and the padre was very
anxious to find all the quarter-inch cubes
of stone, of various colors, which had
been displaced. My mate and I spent
quite a while helping, and in return he
showed us the whole floor and translated
the Greek tablet near where the altar
had been. According to his translation
St. George was buried underneath. The
joke going the rounds was that the padre
got very excited at the translation and
wired his H.Q. “Have located grave of
St. George.” H.Q. wired back, “Have no
record of St. George. Send regimental
number and unit.”
* * * *
“Kelms”: Short memories (B.
18/10/’50)? In 1944 an argument
developed in our sergeants’ mess as to
when Russia invaded Finland. My con-
tention that it occurred after the declara-
tion of our war with Germany was almost
unanimously ridiculed. The popular
Press’s adulation of “our Russian Ally”
had obliterated the fact that at the com-
mencement of hostilities, and during our
darkest days, Russia was an enemy. I
won a fiver, all told, from ordinarily in-
telligent men who were convinced that
the Russo-Finnish dispute was settled
“years” before War II started.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Even at two-and-nine
a nob Sydneians will pay less for getting
their thatch removed than we did in
Thursday Island a few decades ago.
Thirsty Island was always barber-starved
because each of a long succession of im-
ported tonsorial artists regarded the
practice of his art as of secondary con-
sideration to the consumption of hops.
Signs of a pending, though fitful, lapse of
sobriety on the part of the barber were
eagerly awaited, and the first observer of
the phenomenon usually kept his news to
himself so as to be first in the chair.
The second customer was never treated
because the barber, having collected
advance payments from the long queue of
shaggy-maned ones, always adjourned to
the pub after finishing the first victim and
never came back. Civic-minded bands
several times combined to arrange the
arrival of a guaranteed blue-ribboner, but
invariably the newcomers strayed down
John Barleycorn’s path in the identical
manner of their predecessors. As a result
ships’ barbers, operating at Ned Kelly
rates, reaped a rich harvest while China
and Japan boats were in port,
* * * ♦
“F.S.”: Thirty-two years ago when the
Felton Bequest bought 36 William Blake
illustrations to the “Divine Comedy” for
£3OOO the purchase was roundly con-
demned by some critics. Today Blake’s
work is so highly rated that recently over
£7OOO was bid in London for a single
example. Melbourne Gallery’s collection
of Blakes is now reckoned to be worth
£200,000, almost equal to the original
value of Alfred Felton’s bequest. The
Gallery didn’t have the same luck with
Blake’s great contemporary, Constable, a
much better artist, of whose work it has
only a few small examples, but it is
likely to get a Christmas-box in the shape
of “Study of a Boat Passing a Lock,” a
landscape from his best period. Cost will
be about £15,000.
■ * * •
“Max”: Identification? The post-
master in a little farming community in
Queensland was set a problem the other
day when he received a small package
bearing a surname shared by at least a
dozen families in the district, but with-
out initials. Postie tried them all without
success, and the article lay unclaimed
for about three weeks until one day an
unfamiliar member of the clan walked
into the post-office and asked if he could
examine the package. Before the post-
master could stop him, the farmer undid
the wrapping, removed the contents —a
set of dentures—and popped them into
his mouth. He clamped his jaws a couple
of times and declared “They’re mine,
thanks,” and stalked out.
* * * *
“Dune”: If anyone in my suburb sees
the parson’s children and the vicarage cat
wandering around in an inebriated state,
I hope they won’t start a lot of over-the-
fence gossip. Here’s the low-down. My
neighbor, suffering, like all of us, from the
bottled-beer drought, has gone into the
matter thoroughly and scientifically in
order to relieve the position for what
appears likely to be a thirsty summer.
He tells me that in home-brewing sterili-
sation of all equipment is absolutely
essential, even to the thorough sterilisa-
tion of the crown seals. The brew must
not be mixed in an ordinary copper, or
even the household bath or washtub, as
I always thought was customary, but in
a properly-tinned vat. His problem has
been solved through the generosity of our
local milk-vendor, who has come to light
with a couple of milk-cans. When the
cans get back to their rightful owner
there is a strong possibility that, for a
few days at least, teetotal customers, in-
cluding the parson, may be getting a lack
or two with their morning quart o’ milk.
Don’t ask me for the milk-oh’s address;
I’m on my honor not to reveal it.
THE COMING WAR.
We’re going to have an army; we’re going to
have a war;
The zero hour, our spies assert, will be just
after four,
And many a quiet citizen who finds himself
alive
May praise his great good fortune on December
twenty-five.
The plans were laid in secret; there are uniforms
and guns
All cached in private houses by the worst of
all the Huns,
A dreadful Bloody Trafficker, who favors
neither cause,
Known to the Secret Serviceman as Mister
Santa Claus.
There are pistols and percussion-caps and
cannon; but instead
Of old outmoded humans, there are soldiers
made of lead;
And the generals no longer will be snobbish
brasshat brutes,
But pistol-slapping cowboys dressed in Phantom
Ranger suits.
And on that fatal morning, when drums and
trumpets rouse
The combatants to battle, street-to-street, and
house-to-house,
The public, hearing “Bang! You’re dead!”
resounding on the breeze,
Will say, “It’s Doctor Evatt —he’s repulsing
the Chinese!”
And twenty thousand living-rooms will ring
with the reports
Of Knights-at-arms and Coldstream Guards,
besieged in cardboard forts
By gasmasked khaki warriors and yelling Indian
braves,
While stretcher-bearers take the dead to hos-
pitals or graves.
And then the noise of battle and artillery will
die,
And voices scream “You cheated!” “No I
didn’t!” “It’s a lie!”
And folk will say, “Now, UNO boys, you’re
getting far too steep—
Just imitate the Senate, and go home and go
to sleep.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Fairf”: Departmental vigilance has
averted a calamity at Guildford (N.S.W.).
The council was recently informed by
the Prickly Pear Destruction Committee
that the pest had been discovered grow-
ing in a street. Destruction will be
carried out by experts from the com-
mission, at an estimated cost of 15s. I’m
no authority on prickly pear, but I do
know something about Government de-
partments, and I find myself working out
just how much ground the menace covers.
First there will be the preliminary
expenses; site to be viewed by officials
(two), chauffeur (one), posh car (one).
Next, confirmation by superior officials
(two), chauffeur (one), p.c. (one). Then
the estimating branch will take over.
Their work
completed and
the price de-
termined, the
way will be
open for the
“expert s.”
They’ll have to
be driven to the
scene, and
equipped with
implements o f
destruction, also
culinary
arrangements for the brewing of tea.
Such an understanding could hardly be
carried out by a crew of fewer than four
men plus one vehicle. The destruction
complete, a report will have to be made
out. A checking-officer will, as a matter
of routine, be required to report on the
report, and a superior checking-officer
will, of course, check-up on the check-
up. Then, if the supervisor gives notice
in writing that the job has been carried
out, a final inspection will be made and
the undertaking considered completed.
And all for 15-bob! Who said there is
no value in the pound?
* * * *
P. O. MacCabe: My father surveyed
the foundations of No. 1 and other
pumping-stations for the Kalgoorlie
water scheme on which H. J. Prater toiled
(B. 6/12/’5O), and doubtless the pair met
many times, particularly on payday, the
dad being paymaster of the pipeline
gangs. My most vivid recollection of
Southern Cross and Gilgai is my envy and
“Christmas is all right if one didn't have so many loathsome relatives
swarming round”
admiration for the old man’s predilection
for riding up and down the Perth-
Kalgoorlie line on the footplates of light
engines. Our morning newspaper was
delivered the same way, the enginedriver
tossing it to me proudly waiting with
my billycart at the level-crossing. Later
on, construction camps at Mundaring
Weir and Spencer’s Brook were the scenes
of school vacations, the bushlands about
Mundaring in those days growing prob-
ably the finest profusion and variety of
wild orchids and flowers in Australia —
kangaroo-paws, boronia, everlastings and
flannel-flowers especially abounding.
♦ * * ♦
“K.”: My commiserations with that
amiable wangler “Bo” and his Uncle
Claude (B. 13 /12/’5O) over the annual
Christmas-present business. To help the
poor fellows out of their difficulty I will
offer the solution which my brother and
I have found satisfactory and which cost
no more than a couple of stamps. I
forget which of us first propounded the
scheme, but it ought to rank for merit
with that of the great Cosette sweepstake
among the cadets of St. Cyr. I regularly
send my brother a fiver for Christmas
and he as regularly sends me one. We
each then spend what we like on our-
selves, or nothing at all.
♦ » ♦ *
“T.McN.”; Melbourne “Argus” on
a recent Wednesday had a picture of one
Tommy Mahoney stoking boilers in a
Melbourne hospital. By Friday, Thomas’s
picture was in Sydney “Daily Telegraph,”
which alleged he’d spent Thursday “stok-
ing a furnace”; though the caption-
writer refrained from saying where.
Both papers claimed that people who
complained about the heat in both cities
really had nothing to complain about in
comparison with Mr. Mahoney. Doesn’t
either of them know that outside heat
doesn’t affect the temperature of a stoke-
hold, where the fire, not the sun, creates
the heat?
* * * *
“Pat”: Christmas parties in our district
have been coming thick and fast, but it
was left to a New Australian family to
make a contribution to originality. In-
stead of the traditional fir-tree, a stunted
Christmas-bush at the bottom of the
garden was hung with festively-wrapped
parcels. N.A. Junior explained, “Now
I’m an Australian I like to have one of
your trees for my Christmas.” His native-
born guests were not impressed. “Just
a big fake,” one grumbled to me. “He
said a Christmas-tree and there wasn’t
any. No bells or lights or anything. It
was just one of those little bush things
like we’ve got down the backyard.”
# * * #
“Billy S.”: Pitt-street full of Christ-
mas shoppers. I leaned up against a
window for a breather. Couldn’t get at
my fags, as I was laden with parcels.
Who should I see pushing his perspiring
way up the street but old Bert —also laden
with parcels. He made his way
towards me. Now, Bert is one of
those coves who always heed official-
dom. For instance, he uses the
October holiday weekend to get his
Christmas-cards ready for posting, and
for months now he has been bragging
to me about having his Christmas
presents all wrapped and ready for hand-
ing out. He didn’t try to dodge me or
fob me off, however, but said “Doing
your Christmas shopping?” “Yes,” I
answered, and, as I eyed the electric train
sticking out of its wrapping-paper under
an armpit, “And I suppose that train
you’ve got there is for the Eastern Suburbs
Railway?” “No,” he replied. “It’s a
present for the grandson.” “You old
fraud!” I said. “Bragging about having
had your presents ready for months.”
He looked hurt, and then up he spoke
very much on his dignity, “True it is,” he
said, falling into his favorite Bob
Menzies role. “True it is these are Christ-
mas presents, but I’m so far ahead now
that these presents happen to be for
Christmas nineteen fifty-one.” And with
that he backed into the milling mob and
made his way up the street.
* * * ♦
“Clooter”: The naivete of some
women floors me. This one happens to
be of the nobility, consequently
when she came out to Australia to join
her husband, a swimming star, she was
fallen upon eagerly by the flapper-Press
reporters who quickly discovered that
she missed “the company of her poodles.”
Not being quite sure whether or not she
was being sarcastic, the reporters pressed
her and discovered that she kept no fewer
than 17 tripe-hounds, who sleep in her
“This one'll do nicely for me. Now fix up one for the missus.”
bedroom “when she is in her luxurious
home in the south of France.” The lady
added that she loved horses and was
“very fond of our two monkeys, which
also have complete freedom of the
house.” Then she added “I don’t think
Frank is very keen on dogs.” Frank is
the husband —of the lady.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Melbourne Weather Bureau
was the subject of criticism from one end
of Melbourne to the other during a.
recent heatwave which left thousands of
suburbanites so short of water that they
had to go to the Yarra even for drink
and poultryfarmers had to watch their
stock dying by hundreds. It seems that,
in response to numerous telephone in-
quiries, the bureau had snappily retorted
that “the temperature the next day would
be 110 degrees, after which it would rain
till Christmas.” An official explanation
came the following morning—the bureau’s
switchboard had jammed and many calls
had been diverted to the office of a
businessman, experienced enough in his
own line, but no great shakes as a
weather-prophet. He became irate and
eventually started giving the forbidding
forecast.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: It isn’t only the British
National Anthem which derives from old
folk music. The other evening I heard
strains familiar as “We’ll Keep the Red
Flag Flying” coming from no less respect-
able a source than a station of the Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commission. It was
the children’s hour, and they were singing
an old German folk-song that has the
same tune as the Commo song.
* * * *
“Caballer”: A toothpaste ad. gave me
a shock about my age. It showed Oliver
Wendell Holmes, who was for a few
years a contemporary of mine, wearing a
rig-out of about 1780 talking to a lady
in a costume of the same period.
Alarmed at the apparent flight of years I
checked up and found that Holmes
(1809-1894) must have been old-fashioned
in his costume —unless the artist made a
mistake. That would be most unlikely,
as it is well-known that commercial art
| has five distinct historical periods—Vic-
torian from 1930 back to 1800; 18th
century; Cavalier; Elizabethan; and
medieval, which brings them to 1066.
The previous 1000 years is “Saxon” and
“Ancient Britons.” Any bathing-costume
previous to 1930 is neck to knee and
elbow and worn by a frumpish person,
while the modern costume is worn by a
most attractive girl.
* * * *
“Ceg”: No doubt the usual crowded
drinking conditions will prevail at the
Melbourne Cricket Ground ‘ during the
Test match. Pay a bob for your glass
and then hop in for your cut. How
different from the first cricket match
played between an All England eleven
v. 18 Victorians! The year was 1862,
and a picture, “drawn from nature on
stone” by C. Clark, discloses that in those
days there were almost as many drinking-
booths as spectators. The bars occupied
the lower part of the grandstand, which
extended about half-way round the
oval. Here are some of the names
appearing over them; Spiers and Ponds,
The Brian Boru, Parer’s Hotel del Uni-
verse, Down-v-Australia Felix, Cricketers’
Hotel, Odd Fellows’ Hotel, Canada Hotel,
and so on. There were about 17 of them
depicted ; also, one tea-and-coffee booth
with three patrons, and a cart selling
cordials. It had no patrons, but possibly
that was prejudice on the part of the
artist.
♦ * * ♦
“Hattie Hop”: “Bo’s” mention of the
mythical Easter suit and Christmas suit
(B. 29/11/ ’5O) reminds me of a time
when I heard my landlady in a country
town tell her little boy to go and put on
his “picture” suit. I waited for him to
emerge in a Lord Fauntleroy creation of
black velvet with lace collar and cuffs:
but presently saw him set off with his
mother in grey tweed coat and knickers,
Eton collar and “biscuit,” bound for the
cinema. In my childhood the outfit
would have been known as a Sunday
suit.
* ♦ * ♦
“Spike”: Buying some conduit in Bft.
lengths for use as curtain-rods, a friend
tried to get it home. He started out with
the fairly-thick bundle held vertically in
front of him, as it seemedi safer that way
But it made his arms ache, and when the
crowd thinned out a little he slung the
bundle on to his shoulder and balanced
it pointing fore and aft. That way he
was able to make better progress, and
was striding boldly along when a cheer
from a group outside a pub made
him look back. The cause was a small
red paper tag which someone had hung
on the tail-end of his bundle of conduit
like the rear-end flag on a loaded timber-
truck.
* * * *
“Xont”: The faith a child often has
in the literal acceptance of the word of
an adult is wonderful as well as
humorous ; it often pays dividends, as in
the case of the kiddie who asked
“W.E.8.” (B. 1/11/ ’5O) “Any gum,
chum?” Years ago a friend of mine
who had a baker’s shop close to the
poorer quarter of Halifax, Yorkshire,
often sold his stale bread at a cheap rate.
One day I was chatting in his shop when
in came a tiny tot, clutching a penny in
his grubby hand. He demanded; “A
penn’orth o f
stale bread,
pleas e.” I
glanced at his
face, which
matched his
hands, and then
to my friend,
whose thoughts
must have
matched mine,
for he burst
out: “Go and
get a bath,
you dirty little
beggar,” The
youngster
smiled, darted out of the shop and re-
turned in quick-time with an enamelled
bath, little cleaner than himself. His
smile was, if possible, still more
rapturous. His faith was not misplaced!
What could we do but fill his bath and
so fulfil his expectation?
A TOAST TO PRAWNS.
“Prawns steady.” —Market report.
O gentle little perfect prawn,
As rosy-tinted as the dawn—
Well, after you’ve been boiled —
Tis good to know that you can stay
Steady in price in such a way,
Your character unspoiled.
Staid, shrinking prawn of modesty,
Retiring as the meek should be,
Not like the flighty whiting,
Which, though all palates find it nice,
Has yielded to the current vice—
The price of it most biting.
Clean little prawn upon a plate,
Of modest, set financial state,
Not like your greedy cobbers —
Mullet and bream, flounder and trout,
Salmon and cod and snapper stout —
Who, housewives say, are robbers.
Mild little prawn with whiskers long,
Accept this hearty praise in song
While prices swirl and eddy:
My doleful heart leaps up to hear
When every other thing is dear.
That you at least are steady.
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Spike”: Alf believed “a dog’s place
is outside,” and his cattle-dog had worked
out a system of being near his boss and
still on the right side of the law. The
house was fairly close to the ground, but
the dog had found pathways along which
he could move bent low and still be
directly underneath
any part of the house
his boss might choose
to visit. I learned
this one night when
I sat with Alf in his
sitting-room. A dog
barked somewhere
in the night and im-
mediately there was a thud from the floor-
ing under Alf, “Old Blue bumping his
head on a beam,” he told me. “Does
it sometimes when he sits up sudden.
Must be getting forgetful. One night he
was asleep under my bedroom floor when
a cat squealed outside. Old Blue up
and away and you should have heard
his noggin hitting the beams as he went.
Like a darned xylophone.”
* * * ♦
“Tidapa”: Last week I renewed
acquaintance with an old Malay friend,
one Sakmat, He was bo’sun of the cable-
ship Recorder on the job of restoring fast
cable ex-Australia-Singapore. Ten years
ago Sakmat possessed the prettiest little
Malay wife m Singapore, and I wasn’t
very surprised when he sadly told me that
little Enche Esah had flown with some
other brown-skinned Lothario. As
Malays are apt to be rather annoyed when
this happens, they usually try to extract
a little revenge for the slight. I asked
Sakmat had he done this. He explained
that it was useless. She had run away
with his blood-brother; therefore it was
quite impossible that he should even
attempt to get her back or to harm the
wife-stealer in any way. Well, I reckon
this blood-brothership works in a lop-
sided way. Relationships of this kind are
usually a matter of convenience, the cere-
mony being a very simple one that en-
tails a small cut on the forearms of the
prospective brothers. The blood is then
mixed in a coconut-bowl and sipped by
each. From that moment they must be as
brothers. In olden times it was a common
practice for Chinese traders travelling
through dangerous territory to approach
the chief and, by rich presents and
promises of further kumshaws, to prevail
on him to be accepted as a blood-brother.
In this way the wily Celestial obtained
some degree of safety while moving
around among the warlike Malays, whose
chief amusement in those days was the
chopping-off of Chinese heads.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Little Curl woke up on
the Sunday morning and missed his
white-handled pocketknife—his pride and
joy. There were eight men on that
station, counting the cook, and all turned
to and searched. Horse-yards, stables,
woolshed, engme-room, harness-room,
men’s hut, cookhouse, homestead, tank-
stands, dog-kennels, the dip, the garden—
“ When you call me that —Wag your rudder."
every dashed part was examined inch by
inch. Twas vain. Then we pinned Little
Curl in a comer and third-degreed him
( as to his movements on the previous
night, when he had last used the knife
and so forth. Still ’twas vain. We rode to
town that afternoon and examined the two
streets, the pub, the store, several small
boys, two drunks and a hatter camped in
the bend. ’Twas vainer than ever. Still,
since we had refreshed ourselves some-
what at the pub we were happy enough
as we mounted for home about dusk. As
our cavalcade rounded the hall to stretch
out for the home run the third daughter
of the pound-keeper hailed Little Curl
and said, “Don’t forget what you said last
night; if you want your knife back you
have to come to church tonight.” He
gulped, turned pale, and said he hadn’t
forgotten. But ’twas vain, for we chased
him miles into the scrub above the
Tammit boundary, caught and dis-
mounted him, took his boots off and left
him to walk home.
* * * *
“Eremophila”: The dark and gloomy
black-oak belt along the foot of the
Flinders Range (S.A.) is a hill of rock-
reflected heat in summer, and an eerie,
wind-haunted wilderness in other seasons.
The bright spots in this minor desert
never fail to be startling. Scrambling
painfully over splintered rock you see,
against the darkness of the oaks, a little
tree, daintily symmetrical, with thickly-
clustered light-green foliage—itself exotic
in such a place—starred with balls of
brilliant scarlet. Sheltered by the sombre
black-oaks, the quandong grows as
beautifully here as it does in the cold, wet
scrubs of Cape Jervis, 300 miles to the
south. It pushes northward, too, to the
ultimate desert about Lake Eyre, and west
on to the Nullarbor, On the great lime-
stone plain, J. M. Thompson, the
authority on the Nullarbor caves, states
that quandongs invariably grow about the
bottleneck mouths of the blowhole
caverns. Given protection from the wind,
the little trees are truly ornamental, and
the fruit —as anyone who has tasted
quandong tart can witness—is delicious.
As they are so catholic in their taste for
environments, the wonder is that more
are not grown in gardens.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The road was badly
rutted, and the three of us were picking
our own bike-tracks. Charlie was riding
close to the paspalum, I was behind, and,
farther out, George about 10ft. behind
on my right. Chooks were scratching in
the long grass as we approached, and
when Charlie was almost abreast of them
a White Leghorn pullet dashed straight
out under his front wheel. Charlie
finished up in the dust with the bike
slung over his shoulder like the Minstrel
Boy’s harp. Meanwhile the chook had
somehow got under my pedals, squawked
protestingly, bounced up, veered into the
wind and cannoned against George’s
back forks. For a second or so she
lingered close to the wheel and a snow-
storm seemed to have sprung up. By that
time I’d ridden into Charlie. A week
later we passed that way again. Before
we reached the spot a strange apparition
shot out of the paspalum, and with
frantic, fluttering flight scrambled to the
first branch of a wayside wattle. There,
with a leery eye, it watched us pass. And
people say birds have no memory!
* * * *
“Carinish”: On the origin of those
brumbies in West Australia distinguished
by a black stripe down the centre of the
back. In the islands of North and South
Uist in the Outer Hebrides of Scotland,
the Ultima Thule of the Ancients, the
native Uist ponies, or Highland Garrons,
although they vary in color —grey, chest-
nut with silver mane, brown, or rusty
black —nearly all are dappled and have
the characteristic black stripe down the
centre of the back ; the “eel stripe,” it is
called. These Highland Garrons are said
to be a mixture of the native Uist pony
and the descendants of the Arab chargers,
belonging to officers of the Spanish
Army, which managed to get ashore from
some of the storm-wrecked ships of the
Grand Armada. They are a very hardy
breed, much sought after by farmers in
the hilly parts of the mainland, used both
for saddle and in harness. They are
about 14 or 15 hands in height, very
broad and deep in the chest, 22in. being
a common-sized collar. They have clean
limbs and head typical of the Arab
strain, and are very active, with good
feet.
* * * *
“Flinders Range”: It started life as a
green. Army-issue mosquito-net, acquir-
ing, in this first phase, a circular cigarette
burn which has always been a bullet-
hole in the Youngster’s sanguinary
imaginings. In its civilian existence the
old net became an inseparable cobber of
a camp-sheet and a car, and well
acquainted with sand, gibbers, claypans
"The beater , of course, was just unfortunate."
and bindi-eyes. A few weeks ago I found
a shrub out in the ranges, a beautiful
Eremophila with softly-blue foliage and
white trumpet flowers flushed with pink.
I coveted the seed of that vegetable, and
the old net went bush again, being pegged
down with gibbers under the Eremophila
in the mouth of a wild and lonely gully,
just at the level where the savage stone-
heaps, with their black-oak and bindi-
eye, give way to the steep slopes of red
mallee and porcupine that climb to red
cliffs of shattered sandstone. Going back
that way last week I climbed to the gully-
mouth to see whether seed had begun to
fall. The net was ringed, inside the line
of gibbers, with a drift of white-star
calyces, and, within this wind-woven
wreath, the old green net had been con-
verted again into a bed —this time for a
buck euro, an old black-and-rusty repro-
bate with a chest of a Scowegian sailor
and the face of a cynical Scotty dog.
* * + *
“Vet.”; “Hey, Bert! The mad major
was looking for you. You know, that
bloke that breeds dogs. He was making
inquiries about that old kelpie of yours.”
“What! Nigger? Gripes, that bloke’d buy
anything. That mong’s only alive ’cos 1
can’t get hold of a decent pup to take his
place. Hope you never told him any-
thing.” “No. Anyway, you can tell him
yourself. Here he comes now.” A stout
bloke strolled in, spotted Bert, and came
over. “ ’Morning,” he greeted. “I’ve
been thinking about that sheep-dog of
yours, Bert. He’s —er —getting a bit of
age on him, isn’t he?” “Old! Gripes, no,”
scoffed the mong’s owner “That dog’s
good for many a year yet. Why?” “Well,
1 was just wondering if perhaps you
might like to get rid of him,” said the
other. “He’s a good-looking dog, but the
point is, is he a good worker?” “Too
right he’s a good worker,” declared Bert
emphatically. “Worth every penny o’ ten
quid, that kelpie. Mind y’, if anybody
wanted him bad enough, I might take a
bit less. Don’t want to buy him, do
you?” “Me! G’lord no,” gasped the
major. “I had the idea he was no good,
and was going to give you one of my
pedigreed pups, but seeing you don’t need
it I’ll give him to someone else.”
* * * *
“Flip”: Herb surmised that the fish
were probably all home at lunch, and,
from various spread-eagled possies on the
deck, we agreed with him. George, we
noted, was already asleep, and, after
staring at him for a while. Herb quietly
moved and tiptoed past him into the
cabin. He came back with a record from
his old sea-going gramophone. We sat
up a bit and watched Herb reach over
the side, quietly wind in George’s line
to the hook
and thread
this through
the hole in
the middle of
the record,
which he then
dropped over.
George slept
on, so we woke
him with a
yell. He dis-
believed it at first, and gave his line a
jerk to prove it. He started pulling in
earnest, and it was fine to see. The line
shot out to the left, then up near the
surface and away to the right. “ ’Strewth,
I never struck one to fight like this,” he
told us, highly excited. He muttered that
the thing had managed to get under the
boat and was therefore very cunning. At
last he got it near the surface, and Herb
asked him what it was. Silence for a
while, and then it came; “Hungarian
flamin’ Rhapsody Number Two!”
MR. BILLINGTON.
Admiring him I wish to praise
A whiskered Head of former days.
A man more like a God remote,
And garbed in a claw-hammer coat.
If it blew out we held our breath
For fear his wrath might be our death,
And full of righteous wrath was he
At what we were and should not be —
Numskulls and idlers naught would mend
Because of “failing to attend.”
Although ten years he’s dead and gone,
I still have dreams of Billington.
Did Mr. Billington believe
In Adam and his good wife Eve,
In Noah, in Jonah and the whale,
And many another thrice-told tale?
You had to, sixty years agone,
Or be unfit a school to run.
But his belief was strongest in—
To flout it was a deadly sin—
The sov’ran right of the three R’s
To rule all things beneath the stars.
And still a chilly funk remains
When I’m reminded of moraines,
And cases with the Verb To Be
Have yet a power to fluster me.
But had his pupils known one thing,
It would have half removed the sting
Of his unbridled power with thong
And rod to put them in the wrong.
It was that high above him ruled
A despot who would not be fooled,
A monarch of the realm of cram,
With power to raise up and to damn.
For Him, upon Inspection Day,
Two fattened birds who’d ceased to lay
Perished —they sometimes took it hard.
And scurried round and round the yard,
While “Billy,” waving high the axe,
Pursued the skulkers, spitting tacks.
Toward Him, for fear of least offence,
Our Head was silken deference,
He hung on every word he said,
But when at dusk he’d seen him sped,
“Thank God! At last the blighter’s gone,”
He’d say to Mrs. Billington.
One brief reflection ere I close
These lines redundant with my woes.
If I met Mrs. Billington
I, too, might say, “Thank God he’s gone”
(“Old Bill.”) But she would not agree,
For to her “He” was merely “he,”
And quite another cup of tea.
n.z.
F.L. COMES.


“Mat’s Mate”: Mat was allergic to
bees and swore that if there was one any-
where within a mile it would seek him
out. He always jumped if he heard an
insect of any kind hum, and wouldn’t rest
until he’d discovered what it was. We
were cutting suckers on Mandagery Creek
when he let out a howl and leapt
about four feet in l the air. A bee had hit
him on the right elbow. I pulled the sting
out and dabbed some baking-powder on
the wound, and he calmed down and went
on working. That afternoon we went into
Eugowra and were in the bar of the
Central when a bloke came in and said,
“Blime, there’s a swarm o’ bees on the
veranda-post outside ; get a sheet and a
box, somebody.” Mat put down his pot,
went over the bar like a kangaroo and
vanished into the cellar. Later, when the
bees were captured and the excitement
over, we persuaded him to come out. He
was half out when a maid out in the hall
switched on a vacuum-cleaner. I’ve seen
the way a yabbie can shoot backwards
into its hole, but no yabbie would have
been in the race with Mat the way he shot
back into that cellar.
* * * •
“Zanthos”: The boss was giving a
hand with a neighbor’s hay, and his
missus kept an eye on the stock. Putting
junior in the pram, she pushed him two
miles round the sheep. The rams were
well, but rather discontented in their
new well-fenced paddock. Of the 500-
odd ewes, one was dead from no obvious
cause and one was cast, but staggered off
gratefully to find her lamb when rolled
on to her feet. One lamb was dead, badly
flystruck—the dressings had been too late
to save it. After that the missus found
a new Black Poll calf hidden in rushes
near a swamp. It enjoyed being patted
while its mother watched jealously. On
a near-by pond nine black duck flew off
as the pram approached and two heron
circled overhead. A great fuss came
from two plover anxious to distract
attention from their nest. The missus got
back and made herself some tea, having
done for love what a station-hand would
want a tenner and keep to do.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
“Clo”: The foofliills of Mount Kina-
bula, in Borneo, is the resting-place of all
near-by Bornean departed. Here is also
the guardian of their spirits —the fabled
Pakaua, a savage beast that, according to
Dusun legend, is half-deer and half-boar,
combining the fleetness of one with the
savageness of the ether. To make it a
little more unpleasant to meet, it has, in-
stead of a tongue, a razor-edged kris, and
its sole employment in life is to keep
humans away from the sacred domain of
the departed. Taking to a tree will not
save the unwary traveller from the
Pakaua, for the monster’s kris will soon
cut down even the stoutest tree, and the
unfortunate man will quicjkly have his
bones licked clean. But there is one way
in which the Pakaua can be beaten. If
the fugitive can possibly lead this animal
through water he’ll be safe, for im-
mediately the Pakaua’s hide becomes wet
he stops to dry himself. This is his un-
doing. Immediately his kris-like tongue
sinks into his own flesh. When the blood
commences to flow he continues to lick
and slice until he is just a matter of
bones.
♦ ♦ • ♦
“Solitude”: Passing through Dead
Gully, and Seventyfiver commenting on
the changes in the place: “I ’member
when there weren’t nothin’ but a bark
hut in that gully,” he remarked. “Now
the place’s got streets. Don’t seem long
ago, neither.” We turned down the creek
road, “Yair, an’ Dogtown’s grew a lot,
too,” he continued. “Got about a dozen
houses round there now, instead o’ just
a trapper’s hut. Seems there’s places
springin’ up everywhere; not only the
towns, but all along the flamin’ road
there’s bits o’ farms V things now.”
“Yes, they’re creeping out,” I agreed idly.
“They’ll be getting up our way next.
Blokes will drift out from the town and
start ploughing up Ghost Creek and
building houses in Brumby Gorge. After
that they’ll hack a road into the back
country, scale old Feathertop, start plant-
ing a lot of imported trees, and making
play-resorts.” Seventyfiver stared at me
in horror. His eyes popped, his jaw
dropped, as his gaze roamed to the
rugged blue ranges against the skyline.
“Cripes, Sol,” he gasped. “1 never
thought o’ that! Cripes, at the rate it’s
goin’, in another sixty years or so, there
won’t be a open acre left in the country
where a bloke c’n live.”
* * * *
“L.R.”: The claim that each man at
the end of the crosscut-saw must only pull
and not push, otherwise buckling of blade
would follow (B. 8/11/ ’5O), isn’t borne
out in practice. Take, for instance, the
high rigger man who climbs the giant
trees to lop the upper branches with his
one-man sft, saw —how can he work it
by only pulling? And how about the
“Why don't someone go up an ’ tell 'im it's fallen down?"
portable push-and-pull crosscut-saw
worked by engine-power? Damage or
buckle the saw? Don’t make us laugh.
* * * *
“Sundowner”: It could be the scarcity
of trees of worth-while stature on
our western
Vie. plains,
but I’ve
noticed
Maggie
f a v o r ing
cross-
pieces
of tele-
phone-
poles as a staging for her nest. However,
one home was usurped by a Kelly whose
ungainly body overlapping the structure
made an incongruous sight.
* m * *
“Chuck”: “Corrie” Dale tied his nag
under the pepper-tree across the street
and started towards the pub. At the store
he paused to greet old Charlie and the
store bloke who had just come to the
door. “Heard you sold your wool,
Corrie,” remarked the storekeeper.
“Wonderful price you got.” “Think so?”
“ Don't panic , Miss, it's only the plumber."
grunted the sheepman. “A hundred-and-
fifty pence! Lousy bloomin’ price, if y’
ask me.” The store bloke opened up.
Growing steadily redder, he bawled the
increases in every line from darning wool
to men’s suits, and when he ran himself
out and stamped back into the store
Corrie rubbed a hand over his dial and
motioned Charlie towards the pub. They
ranged alongside the boss from the saw-
mills. “In for the sale, are you?” inquired
the timber man. “Selling any sheep
today?” “Aw no, not selling any yet
awhile,” drawled Corrie. “Market s not
good, enough yet. Sheep are too flamin
cheap today, on everything else.” “Too
cheap ! Struth, I’d like to know what you
call dear, then,” howled the bloke. “It’s
easy seen you don’t have to buy meat.
Corrie’s shaky glass spilled over on the
floor, and he looked down at it steadily.
“Cripes, only yesterday I bought a joint,”
continued the infuriated one, “an’ you
know what it cost? Eleven-and-six. Over
eleven flamin’ bob for a roast! It’s day-
light robbery, I tell you. And you’ve got
the hide to stand there and say it’s too
cheap.” As the miller raged out the door,
Corrie’s shaking grew uncontrollable..
“Like it, don’t they?” he managed,
through a great roar of laughter. “Gripes,
Chari, f’r more’n 50 years I’ve slogged
f’r starvation prices, an’ now . . . now
. . . Oh, by cripes, it’s funny !"
* * * *
“E.”: Not being an authority on the
subject, will someone tell me why it is
thunderstorms are attracted more to
certain places ?„ The formation of the
country perhaps, combined with air
currents ; or maybe the make-up of the
terrain, its rocks, mineral deposits, etc.,
have something to do with it. One
particular section in our mountainous
neck-of-the-woods collects many more,
and heavier, thunderstorms than the rest
of the country. Certainly everywhere gets
it at times, but over many years that
particular area must, I think, have col-
lected easily double that of surrounding
land. It is an auriferous belt, consisting
of several part- and heavily-timbered
gullies, and as sure as a storm banks over
the horizon, it’s good odds to bet part or
all of those gullies will collect a packet.
A dozen miles further on is a low hill
thdt never seems to average its yearly
quota of storm-water. Could be coincid-
ence, but after keeping check on the sub-
ject for a good many years—well, I
wonder.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Villefair”: There is no implement so
skilfully designed) to give a novice an in-
feriority complex as the scythe. The best
exponent of grass-barbering I ever saw
merely stood in a loose stance, his eyes
gazing into space and his arms propelling
the unwieldy blade with a lazy, light-as-
thistledown swish. Before his stroke
blades of grass didn’t bow down,
then promptly spring up again ; the point
of his scythe didn’t dig into the ground;
and the job didn’t need mowing when
he’d finished —no mower could have cut
so close over curve and hollow. I’d have
bet on his ability to shave Ned Kelly and
leave a moustache. But his prowess
added to my inferiority complex —he was
a patient in a mental hospital.
* * * *
“Dune”: My introduction to young
dugong occurred in North Queensland
recently; a neighboring islander signal-
ling us that he had something choice for
the southerners. The steaks —either fried
or grilled—are juicy and tender, while a
rib roast looks and tastes like veal. We
sampled, too, the liver and kidneys, and
our only complaint was that there was
not enough to have a good meal.
Strangely enough, there is absolutely no
trace of oiliness or fishiness in dugong
meat, although the rather thick and rub-
berised hide and the extremely ugly head
yield, through slow simmering in a very
little water, a very penetrating and sooth-
ing oil, much sought after by blacks and
whites in tropical areas.
» * ♦ •
“M.S.”: In Victoria’s eastern
corner, where a few years back
garden snails w-ere hardly seen,
they have multiplied till thistles
bordering roads and river frontages hang
with thousands upon thousands of them.
Armies of snails leave the thistles at
dusk and travel into the pasture land,
where they are soon lost in the long
grass. Now the thistles are drying the
snails will need to eat something else. It
is impossible to walk on the roads with-
out getting one’s boots wet with crunched
snails. The size of the plagued areas
varies from roughly 50 yards or so in
extent to more than a mile ; but at the
rate they are multiplying a much larger
area will be overrun.
* * * *
“Flathead”: In a district of Queens-
land there was a man famed for killing
snakes in the whipcracking manner. He
could not recall being bitten when pick-
ing up a live snake by its tail, but he was
once well and truly
bitten by a dead one.
This was a medium-
’ sized tree-snake, and
then, with the prac-
tised flick, its head went
flying, the expert was
seen to be hopping on
one leg and cursing on
the other. The force of
the crack had driven
the snake’s head, jaws
wide open, hard against
the calf of his leg, and the teeth had
found flesh through the threadbare drill
and stayed there. When it was seen that
the jaws wouldn’t open any wider, and
that any attempt to pull the head away
made the teeth close a little tighter, they
took the head and its mouthful along to
the doctor.
♦ * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I’ve been watching
a blue heron —or common “crane” —and
marvelling at its changing plumage and
the capacity of its crop. The pale-blue
tint of winter has gone, changing over
the last few weeks into a pale bronze,
slightly burnished, on the neck and upper
breast, toning to grey on the back and
underparts. As its winter-blue melted
into the gloomier landscape, so does its
present coloring provide an excellent
camouflage in the greying vegetation. But
why it’s necessary for nature to camou-
flage this bird has me guessing. It
appears to have no enemies, and, anyway,
it stands out in the open in the shallow
water away from cover and stirs up a
feed. And what a feed! The dawn was
breaking as it flew in from its nest, and
for two hours it has been eating steadily.
Its technique is effective. It progresses
slowly, thrusting each claw forward
through the mud in a jerky movement, and
few bogwogs that are thus stirred up
escape that quick, long beak. On my
timing, that beak has flashed, on an aver-
age, five times a minute. Which means
that in two hours some 600 items have
passed into that elastic crop. Some of
those items were probably fair-sized tad-
poles, which makes it a very fair gastro-
nomical feat, allowing for the fact that
the food was probably digested almost
immediately. But my admiration for the
bird doesn’t extend to his intelligence.
Regularly, two of them arrive together
at the swamp, and feed about 30yds.
apart. If they co-operated and worked
as a team they’d stir up far more food
in less time. But in that case, of course,
they might quickly deplete the supply of
life on which their lives depend. Appar-
ently there’s a purpose in even the limit
which nature sets on the intelligence of
her children.
TO A CACTUS.
Gloomy cactus, dull and cold,
To me you always looked so old
Shut in your mossy pot of stones
That were as bleached as desert bones,
I sometimes thought you might have died,
So lifeless-looking was your hide:
And then your crimson flower was born,
incredible out of notch and thorn.
Old wizard in your rocky bed,
1 bow to you my bare, bald head.
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


«£ I
«Tt
’A J 1 . -»l
BOARD OF DIRECTORS!
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raw*,
G.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman); John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie
Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., DjS.O.t David Wilson,
M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Sir Lennon Raws, C. 8.8.; Thomas
B. Heifer.
N.S.W. Manager; C B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878,
Continuity
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd. Executor of your Will you
are assured that the interests of your legatees will be safeguarded until all trusts are completed.
In addition, you obtain the benefit of an impartial Executor with over 72 years’ specialised
experience in the administration of Estates.
No individual can offer such permanence, experience or security.
Charges are fixed and moderate.
Write or call for free booklet .
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
Eo
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,000
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
Toße-
oept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves,
£ £ £ £
1940.. 544,771 6 p.c. = 526,800 17.971 0,359,023
1941.. 547,123 6 „ „ 526,800 20,328 0,379,346
1942.. 548,004 6 „ „ 526,800 21,204 6,400,550
1943.. 543,004 6 „ „ 520,800 16,204 0,410,754
1944.. 551,050 6 „ „ 526,800 24,250 6,441,004
1945.. ,552,907 6 „ „ 526,800 26,107 6,467,111
1946.. 569,385 6| „ „ 537,775 31,010 6,498,721
1947.. 617,532 Of „ „ 581,076 35,857 6,534,578
1948.. 728,903 7-J „ „ 658,500 70,403 6,004,981
1949.. 743,692 8 „ „ 702,400 41,292 6,640,273
1950.. 847,790 8 „ „ 702,400 145,390 6,791,663
War, peace and inflation are now the
main topics of discussion the world over.
The Korean affair, the outcome of which
has yet to be seen, has already brought
new increases in world prices and placed
fresh emphasis on rearmament. At the
economic level it has introduced forces
which threaten both a new world inflation
and reintroduction of the war-time system
of allocations and controls. Hence the
warning by the president of the 133-year-
old Bank of N. S. Wales, largest and
oldest of Australia’s private trading banks,
that “we must beware lest efforts to
create a Government monopoly in finance
be replaced, owing to lack of vigilance,
by a tendency to substitute rigidity for
flexibility and to develop controls to the
extent that they affect efficiency and
enterprise.” Among other things, he also
pointed out that Australia’s present
problems do not arise solely out of high
returns from exports, but stem besides
from overoptimism on the one hand and
indifference on the other. Between the
desire for speedy development and the lag
in execution the economy has become
overextended.
The trouble is that our domestic
economy has been suddenly thrown out
of balance by both external and internal
events, which have boosted, or will boost,
our national income and spending-power
at a time when most of our resources
are fully employed. The inevitable result
is a paper-price inflation, which might
get out of hand unless adequate steps
are soon taken to check it. The Arbi-
tration Court’s decision to raise the basic-
wage by about 14 p.c. will add to spend-
ing-power at least as much as the wool-
growers will lose during the current year
by pre-payment of income-tax. In addr-
tion, pressures from expenditure on
development and defence will strengthen
competition for labor and materials and
thus tend to force wages and prices higher
still. And, under existing conditions, it
is questionable whether immigration on
the present scale will not create more
problems than it solves.
Certainly the Government has taken a
number of appropriate steps to cushion
the ill-effects of what is happening, and
it has planned to meet public expenditure
without expansion of central-bank credit.
However, events are moving quickly, and
the need for a more thorough regearing
of public policy to the capacity of the
economy as a whole has become urgent.
Another factor involving the principle of
stability is the need for adoption of a
national wage-policy under which wage
increases will be directly related to in-
creases in productivity. The alternative
is a recurring inflationary spiral which
will finally result in consumers having to
reduce their consumption substantially,
which will spell untold trouble every-
where.
The private trading banks, a pillar of
the country’s financial strength over the
last 50 years, have followed a conservative
lending policy, as is appropriate in a
boom. They have contributed little, if
anything, to the current inflationary situa-
tion ; the growth in their advances is
the result not the cause of the boom.
And it is doubtful whether the central
bank’s recent directive drastically restrict-
ing bank credit will either check or
reverse inflation. There is a limit to which
credit can be restricted and still keep
the wheels of trade and industry turning
at a satisfactory rate. The trading banks,
with their long experience and close
customer-banker relationship, are in the
best position to judge what that limit
should be. However, their ability to
extend credit generally is further restricted
by a procedure which drains off surplus
investable funds into a “special” account
with the central bank.
Last term the Wales gathered an extra
£82,901,757 of deposits, etc., of which
£44,172,095 more than half was
siphoned off and frozen on “special”
account with the Commonwealth Bank
and on statutory deposit with the Reserve
Bank of N.Z. Low-interest-bearing
liquids increased by £20,379,931 and
advances by only £18,275,089:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £8,780,000 £8,780,000 £8,780,000
Notes .. .. 80,996 80,995 80,962
Deposits, etc... 266,723,976 800,187,288 383,089,045
Liquids .. 94,758,564 110,487,898 130,807,829
Deposits* . . 74,456,210 89,363,472 133,535,567
Advances .. 109,308,778 111,936,785 130,211,874
Premises .. 3,840,000 4,080,000 4,300,000
Other assets . . 2,000 2,000 2,000
* Statutory deposits With central banks, Australia
and N.Z.
From a banking point of view the co.’s
position is an exceptionally strong one.
After allowing for taxation and all
other contingencies, the year’s profit
stepped up by £104,098, reaching
£847,790, best since 1929. It was equal
to a moderate 5.4 p.c. on shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined),
or 9.6 p.c. on capital alone as against
8.4, 8.3 and 7 p.c. for the three preceding
years. The div., which advanced by
fractional steps from 6 p.c. in 1945 to
8 p.c. in 1949, was maintained at the
higher rate.
A year ago the co.’s £4O shares paid
to £20 —the other £2O is a reserve liability
callable only if needed on liquidation—
could be had at £43 17s. 6d. in the
market. Last week they fetched £5l,
giving a return of 3.2 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis, or 3.5 p.c. should the distribu-
tion rise to 9 p.c. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is £35 9s. 4d.
Associated Pulp and Paper Mills (Tas.)
(and Subsidiaries)
Towards
Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.*
£ £ £ £
1946.. 106,223 6 p.c. = 96,000 10,223 122,172
1947.. 100,813 6 „ „ 96,000 4,813 117,359
From tax provision, £13,000 .. .. 104,359
Added intangibles, £12,952 .. .. 117,311
Add forfeited share reserve, £1062 .. 116,249
1948.. 83,492 6 p.c. = 96,000 128,757
Intangibles reduced, £3OB .. .. 128,449
1949.. 94,537 6 p.c. = 96,000 129,912
Share premiums, £16,311 .. ..- 113,001
Intangibles reduced, £289 .. . 113,312
1950.. 243,685 6 p.c. = 193,011 50,674 62,638
Special tax provision, £44,300 .. 106,938
To raw material res., £lO,OOO .. 116,938
* After deducting intangibles (now £445,161) from
reserves; and excluding depreciation reserve, etc.
( £1,312,936).
This 14-year-old pioneer of Australian-
made fine-writing and -printing papers,
etc., has put up an encouraging perform-
ance, technically and financially. Inci-
dentally, this issue of The Bulletin is
printed on A.P. and P. paper. The co.
still has a big programme of expansion
and development in hand and has widened
the spread of its interests by engaging,
in association with overseas cos., in the
production of other classes of paper. It
may be a few years yet before the group—
parent, two subsidiaries and two associ-
ated cos. —gets into full stride. Mean-
while, it is doubtful whether shareholders
need look for anything better than 6 p.c.
The co.’s long-term prospects are as en-
couraging as anything of the kind can
be in these uncertain times.
The leap of £149,148 in profit claimed
last term was due to increased production
—No. 3 machine was got going just before
the close of accounts in 1949—and a lift
in controlled selling-prices four months
before the close of accounts. If £44,300
reserved for deferred taxation in connec-
tion with special depreciation is taken
into the reckoning, the year’s net earn-
ings were £199,385 (up £104,848), or
6.3 p.c. on average capital as against
5.9 p.c. and 5.2 p.c. for the two preceding
years.
Since the books were ruled off the co.’s
products have been eliminated from the
price-control list. Selling-prices, how-
ever, are still substantially below cost of
similar imported lines. Demand has
lengthened its lead over production,
customers have been placed on quotas,
and a fourth machine, scheduled to start
up about May, 1951, is being installed.
But it may be some time before this
machine can work to capacity, owing to
shortage of imported sulphate pulp.
The wholly-owned subsidiary. Paper
Makers Pty, (issued capital £1,344,526 in
£1 shares, on a million of which there is
4s. a share to come) is pushing ahead
with development of its 184,000-acre
forest area (from which the parent draws
pulpwood), and erection of its 10,000-tonr
p.a, hardboard mill, now nearing com-
pletion. The big sawmill, which will cut
timber for the building and furniture
trades, is still in the early stages of con-
struction.
During the year the co. bought 50,002
of the 100,000 issued £1 shares in Papyrus
Pty. in exchange for 33,690 of its own £1
ords., which carried premiums totalling
£16,311. The new proprietary is a Sydney
concern operating a paper-coating and
-converting plant, which will work in
conjunction with Ballarat Paper Mills
Pty.
The Ballarat co., which is to make art
and other coated papers, has issued
£500,000-worth of scrip in 200,000 4| p.c.
prefs. and 300,000 ords.-, called to Bs.
each, and held in equal parcels by A.P.
and P., Thomas Owen (Aus.) and British
Coated Board and Paper Mills, First
section of the plan is now undergoing a
trial run.
The other associate, Thomas Owen
(Aus.), Ltd., is erecting a mill at Burnie
(Tas.) to make parchment, greaseproof
and other special papers, and has an issued
capital of £1,750,000 in 750,000 4\ p.c.
prefs. and the balance ords. The prefs.
were publicly subscribed and the ords.
taken one half (now paid to Is. each) by
A.P. and P. and the other half (credited
as paid to 16s. each, in part-payment for
plant, etc.) by Thomas Owen, Ltd.
(Wales). Part of the plant has arrived,
but it is likely to be some time before
operations begin.
Here are consolidated balance-sheet
figures for the parent and its wholly-
owned subsidiary:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £2,251,455 £3,200,000 £3,233,690
Tax provision ~ 50,779 86,332 110,081
Deprec’tion reserve 945.721 1,078,624 1,312,936
Overdraft .. 514,203 124,884 1,312,257
Creditors . . 104,327 99,783 186.256
Final divs. .. 48,000 48,000 97,011
Freehold land, etc.* 326,508 370,353 390,703
Buildings and plant* 2,181,558 2,98'6,353 3,726,196
Stores, etc. .. 448,385 544,053 672,860
Finished stocks . . 90,415 70,390 120.092
Debtors . . .. 170,833 276,843 472.728
Shareholdings .. 300,000 40,000 120,132
Cash, etc. .. 295,708 219,667 632.583
Rights, preliminary
exes., etc. .. 445,758 445,450 445,161
* At cost.
To finance additions of £760,193 to fixed
assets (mainly No. 3 machine), £179,109
to stocks and stores and £195,885 to
debtors’ balances the co. went to its
bankers for an extra £1,187,373.
To ease the debt, meet calls on shares
held and see its own programme to com-
pletion A.P. and P. arranged privately in
May last for a debenture loan of
£2,000,000 at 4| p.c., redeemable over 22
years.
At 355. 9d. (295. 2d. a year ago) the
parent’s f.-p. pound ords., covered by
19s. 3d. in net tangibles (book-values),
return 3.3 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Tutt Bryant, Ltd. (and Subsidiaries)
To Re- Ke-
June, Profit. Pref. , Ord. N serves, serves.t
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Brought forward, £62,578 .. •• 62,578
Private co. tax 1946 & 1947, £58,390.. 9.188
1948.. 52,649 *54,247 7.590
Share premiums, £22,500 .. •• 30,090
1949.. 101,446 1875 10 p.c. = 17,684 8.1,887 111.977
1950. .185,145 5781 15 „ ~87,969 141,395 253,372
* Includes £50,000 divs. paid before conversion to
public co. and £4247, equal 10 p.c., thereafter.
f Subject to intangibles, £3OOO.
Outstanding feature of the accounts of
this 12-year-old distributor and manu-
facturer of heavy-duty construction and
ancillary equipment is the co.’s extra-
ordinary and very profitable post-war
expansion. It holds some 35 American
and British agencies many cany
rights to manufacture under licence —
covering dozers, scrapers, rooters and
loaders, as well as road-surfacing,
concrete - construction and truck - lift
equipment, dredging buckets and refuse-
collecting units, etc. And subsidiaries
have been set up in all the mainland States
to attend to the assembly, distribution
and servicing of the equipment handled.
Demand, public and private, has sent
turnover bounding along in this way:
1945 ..£567,000 I 1948 .. ..£1,380,300
1946 .. .. 552,600 1949 .. .. 2,057,700
1947 .. .. 959,900 | 1950 .. .. 3,371,400
The increase last term was £1,313,700, or
38.9 p.c. And the big hydroelectric,
water-conservation and other schemes
already commenced or planned through-
out Australia, together with the growth
of farm mechanisation, have strengthened
actual and potential demand, while the
dollar loan has increased the value of the
co.’s American agencies—most important
of these are for Allis-Chalmers and Le
Tourneau machines.
To help finance the growth paid capital
advanced from £150,000 in June, 1948,
to £487,500 at the close of last accounts,
when the increase for the year was
£187,500. It was not enough ; so to ease
the pressure of the debt and provide for
further expansion, 168,750 new £1 ords.
were issued at par since the close of
accounts, lifting paid capital to £656,250,
in 150,000 5 p.c. prefs. and 506,250 ords.
On that lot the pref. div. and 15 p.c. to
the ords. would call for £83,437, which
was covered nearly 2\ times by last term’s
profit figure.
After allowing for depreciation
(£19,743, up £13,491) and taxation
(£119,914, up £53,788), the year’s net
earnings were £83,699 stronger at a
record £185,145. That covered pref. re-
quirements and a juicy 70.8 p.c. on
average ord. capital, as against 56.3 p.c.
for the previous term. The div. was lifted
from 10 p.c. to 15 p.c., leaving £141,395,
or over three times the amount distri-
buted, to plough back into the business,
thus lifting reserves to £253,372.
Last term’s new capital, together with
an extra £254,259 from the bank and
£101,372 from sundry creditors, went
mainly into stocks (up £561,612) and
book debts (up £103,692):
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. .. £150,000 £300,000 £487.500
Overdraft .. ~ 142,102 146,055 400.314
Sundry creditors .. 806,673 291,077 392,449
Tax provision .. .. 79,936 111,157 139.161
Staff fund .. .. 10j670 11,767 12.830
Final divs. .. ~ 4,247 11,875 24.844
Freeholds .. .. 57,989 85,837 108.949
Plant 30,256 39,368 58.907
Shares other cos. .. 2,000 14,500 30,761
Stock 343,052 549,260 1,110,862
Book debts .. .. 257,264 284,278 387.970
Cash, etc 8,657 7,765 12.021
Intangibles .. .. 3,000 3,000 3,000
The net growth in fixed assets was
£40,651, and additions are being made to
factory space at Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide. Excluding shareholdings, the
year’s improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£541,255) was £271,893.
Still, when the books closed, the bank
and sundry creditors together had
21s. sd. in the business for every pound
belonging to shareholders, hence the new
share-issue. And the business won’t need
to expand much further before introduc-
tion of more fixed capital will become
desirable.
At 715., ex-rights, the ords. return
4.2 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. The prefs.


8.0.A.C. SPEEDBIRD SERVICES
TO ALL SIX CONTINENTS
df
You can book to almost
anywhere in the world by
8.0.A.C. Service on one
ticket all the way. Your
8.0.A.C. Agent makes no
charge for expert advice
and trip planning help.
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA • FAR EAST • HONG
KONG • JAPAN • CEYLON • INDIA • PAKISTAN • AFRICA
ITALY • GREAT BRITAIN • AND VIA U.K. TO U.S.A.
CANADA • CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA • BERMUDA
Information <sc Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. ( 8.0.A.C.
General Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Towns-
ville, Cairns, Darwin or from Travel Agents in all cities and towns .
8.0.A.C. TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
d
FLY" MAC
Specify 8.0.A.C. “Air Cargo” for your overseas shipments I
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD,, TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD, & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
~ - +
Mining.
Anglo - Westralian Mining Pty.
Limited,
Big Bell, Western Australia,
Require crew of, or individual, con-
tract miners for development work
at Ragged Hills Lead Mine in the
Marble Bar district, Western Australia.
Contract earnings supplemented by
Lead Bonus.
Good single quarters free of charge
and reasonable mess tariff.
Air fares to employment arranged,
bat chargeable unless six months’
satisfactory service completed.
Work commences early in New Year.
Please apply —
General Manager,
BIG BELL . . . W.A.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
O. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C.-LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER-
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centre*
m
m
*3
GUARANTEED. NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
I
f
df
d
<J|j)<gciA/vv 'ter TncJvz,
a,
QochjljcoJLf . . .
It’s simple as A.B.C.
You’ll find the recipe
in the NEW 1950
Vickers Cocktail Book,
with dozens more
sweet, medium and dry
cocktails and cooling
long drinks.
With the new Vickers
Cocktail Book you’ll
learn how easy all
drinks are to prepare
—and how many dif-
ferent kinds you can
make from the simplest
ingredients.
Vickers gin
2 00 YEARS OF TRADITION, 1750' 1950
WRITE FOR YOUR FREE
COPY of 1950 Vickers Cock-
tail Book to The United Distil-
lers Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 759 G,
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. It
will be wailed promptly, post
free.
3 people in 5 choose Vickers.
The greatest name in Gin from
Australia’s greatest distiller,.
vGia/i*
at 21s. 6d. yield 4.6 p.c. Includ-
ing the new issue, net tangible
cover is £6 os. lid. prefs. and
295. lid. ords.
Allan and Stark, Ltd. (BrUbane)
< Dividends—=->
Pref. Re-
July, Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. serves.
£ £ £ £
’42.. 10,005 2500 Si p.c. = 8,556 22,630
’43..19,171 2500 4 „ „ 9,778 29.523
’44..45,547 2500 5 „ ~ 12,223 60.347
To stalf provident fund, £2500 57.847
’45 41,490 2500 5 p.c. >= 12,223 84,614
To staff provident fund, £2500 82,114
’46..58,179 2500 8i p.c. = 20,778 117,015
To staff provident fund, £2500 114,515
’47.. 69,419 2500 84 p.c. = 20,778 160.656
To staff fund, £l5OO .. .. 159.156
’48..80,793 2500 8| p.c. = 20,778 216,671
’49..77,055 2500 84 „ ~ 20,778 270.448
’5O. .67,428 2500 8i „ ~21,445 318.931
This energetic retailer, whose
store runs through the busy
Queen-Adelaide-street block, has
made more progress over the last
decade, financially and other-
wise, than at any time since the
present co. took over the busi-
ness nearly 40 years ago. This
is due partly to fortuitous cir-
cumstances and largely to a keen
merchandising policy, including
the brightening of the store and
improvement of shopping facili-
ties, and to strengthening of the
co.’s resources by adoption of a
moderate dividend - rate and
accumulation of reserves.
The contraction of £9627 in
last term’s profit resulted from
the squeeze between narrower
gross margins and rising wage
and other costs. Turnover ex-
panded, and so did gross earn-
ings (£402,476, up £18,204). But
operating and other exes.
(£335,046, up £27,830) won the
race, and they have a good
chance of doing so again at next
balance, because of the recent
stiff increase in the basic-wage,
the incidence of which is steeper
for female than for male rates
of pay, and will therefore bite
deeply into retailers’ takings.
Selling-prices will rise, of course ;
and the lifts promise to be
steeper than most people antici-
pate, because the high prices for
wool, cotton and other raw
materials, and the effects of the
wage-lifts on the cost of trans-
port, power, etc,, as well as upon
operating costs, have not yet per-
colated through the whole pro-
cess of manufacture and distri-
bution.
Still, the £67,428 of profit
claimed last term was enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 25.7
p.c. on average ord. capital as
against 30.5, 32, 27.3, 22.7, 16.3
and 17.6 p.c. back to 1944. The
div. was kept at 8| p.c., leaving
nearly twice as much as was dis-
tributed to plough back into the
business, thus lifting reserves to
£313,931, or only £5364 short of
paid capital when the books
closed.
In January last 78,385 new
18s. ords. were issued at par,
lifting issued capital to £365,000
in 50,000 £1 5 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 350,000 ords. of 18s. each.
There was £45,705 of the new
capital still to come in when the
books closed:
1948. 1949. 1950.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 294,454 294,454 319,295
Sundry creditors 82,497 88,551 129,289
Tax reserve, etc. 122,921 117,619 112,773
Final div., etc. 27,011 26,697 22.695
Premises & plant 238,082 264,282 304,271
Shares other cos. 34,293 34,293 34,293
Stock .. .. 341,147 366,040 411,047
Book debts .. 90,027 97,928 117.928
Cash, etc. .. 40,004 35,225 35.695
The £24,841 of fresh capital
gathered, together with surplus
earnings and an extra £40,738
from sundry creditors, went into
stocks (up £45,007), book debts
(up £20,000) and fixed assets (up
£39,989). The more -or - less
liquid surplus (£299,913) was
£33,587 stronger.
Turnover has continued to
climb since the close of accounts,
due to inflationary pressures,
which will finally work their
own cure, but the top of the hill
is not yet in sight. At 325. 6d.
the f.-p. 18s. ords. return a
satisfactory 4.7 p.c. on an 8y
p.c. div. basis. On the same
basis the 95.-paid contribs. give
an immediate return of 3.5 p.c.,
or 5 p.c. when the shares are
fully-paid. The prefs. at 225.
yield 4.5 p.c. Net tangible cover
is £l3 9s. Id. prefs. and 355. 3d.
ords.
King Island Scheelite’s Christ-
mas-box Jo shareholders is a Is.
div. per ss. share, as against 6d.
in December, 1949. Estimated
profit for the year to October
31, 1950, is £190,000, as against
£63,760 for the preceding 12
months. Most of the profit was
earned during the second half
of the term, when the water
trouble disappeared and the mill
worked continuously and the
price of wolfram rose sharply.
London averages per unit were
£S4 13s. January, £S6 3s. 7d.
June and £SI2 14s. 7d. Novem-
ber. Co.’s f.-p. ss. shares ad-
vanced in the market from Bs.
six months ago to 14s. 4d. last
week.
* * * *
Cocks Eldorado Gold Dredg-
ing, Wangaratta (Vic.), was
thinking of calling in the under-
taker a year ago. But rises in
prices for gold and tin gave the
co. a new lease of life, boring
downstream having disclosed an
area expected to provide at least
five years’ profitable dredging.
Operations for the year to Sept.
30 last resulted in a net loss of
£13,906, as against a profit of
£6284 for the preceding 12
months. That was because the
dredge turned downstream
through old tailings on its way
to the new ground. Here are
digging results:
1949. 1950.
Treated, c.y. .. 1,070,520 1,510,080
Yields —
Gold, oz.f .. 2,834 1.049
Tin, tons* .. 51.08 33.73
Value, c.y. .. 7.30 d. 0.52 d.
Oont., c.y. .. 0.07 d. 7.58 d.
f Smelted gold. 7 Tin concentrates.
The machine has now reached
the edge of its new objective, the
working face has been opened
out, the buckets are scraping
solid ground and yields have be-
come payable. New settling-
dams, dredge alterations and re-
stocking of essential spares will
be necessary to ensure con-
tinuous running. When the
books closed stores stood at
£2369, and the co. held £36,532
in Government securities, cash,
etc. The amount coming to out-
siders was £6543. Paid capital is
£137,500 in 10s. shares, which
the market prices at 7s. 3d. as
against ss. six months ago.
* * * *
“Sumting Nutting”: Blue Spec
Mining Co., N.L., has struck a
call of Is. a share, making all
issued shares fully-paid to ss.
This call was not expected by
shareholders, who had been
hearing much about the good
gold values in the lower levels.
The Blue Spec mine, situated in
the Marble Bar district of West
Australia, has been one of the
most consistent disappointments
of W.A. mining. The previous
company. Blue Spec Gold Mines,
N.L., ended up losing its own
money and owing the Common-
wealth Government £227,213.
The position was aptly described
by one of the Commonwealth
officers after a visit to the mine
during the last war when he
said “It is curious that a mine
with such good values in total
metals should make such awful
losses.” Antimony is the bugbear.
Still, in spite of its history
and its geographical position the
opinion in well-informed circles
is that given sufficient time and
money and labor the mine will
solve its problems. The com-
pany has a good board and is
fortunate in having Bewick
Moreing as general-manager.


X
fd
ESTABLISHED 1844
Your WILL is
first and foremost
a business matter
Your Will is probably the
most important document that
you will ever sign. Failure to
treat it as a business matter of
the Highest importance may prove
costly to your family.
The best procedure is to
discuss your problems, in con-
fidence, with Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited. The Company
has more than 63 years experience
in Estate administration and is
well qualified to guide you in
your planning.
\\\
rmrr
m /z?
9 19
mm
SEaaMadtf
Q‘hl J '^fhrrmlll
The next step is to have your Will properly drawn by
a Solicitor. This will involve the appointment of an
Executor and Trustee. If you appoint Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited as Sole Executor —or jointly with a
relative or friend you will be following the lead of many
of our wisest and most successful citizens.
If you would have particulars of the services offered by the
Company, ring 80377 or write, and make an appointment.
A Senior Officer will be pleased to give the information you
desire.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
AGENT UNDER POWER
OF ATTORNEY FOR
ABSENTEES AND OTHERS.
ADMINISTRATOR. Etc.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £ T 0.000,000
Directors: Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairmanj
E. K. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT J
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGB, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAOOA WAGQA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
SHARES RISE AGAIN.
Share prices were back to near
top levels last week. B.H.P. at
61s. 6d. showed a full recovery,
and many other stocks were
similarly sought after.
A few lagged, and of these
Tooth scrip was an outstanding
example. This front-rank stock
has given its supporters a slight
jolt lately by disdaining the
bonus-issue fashion and, in fact,
talking of inadequacy of de-
preciation provisions in view of
present-day high costs of plant-
replacement.
Of course. Tooth is better off
than many other cos. in this
respect. But it happens to be
aware of something which some
others fail to see. The C.S.R. is
fully cognisant of the problem,
as its recent booklet, Capital
Erosion, has demonstrated.
Bonus issues being made at
present out of assets-revaluation
reserves wear a rather odd com-
plexion. In the case of revalued
plant, since the writing-up is
usually tax-free, it is unlikely
that the Taxation Department
will allow depreciation provision
at full rates on the new book-
value.
Thus, assuming that proper
depreciation allowance is made
on reyalued plant, future profits
should be subject to much
heavier depreciation charges, in
respect of a large proportion
of which no taxation concession
will be permitted.
This is something many share-
market investors and speculators
fail to appreciate fully. Nor do
they realise that, in many cases,
bonus issues are being made
merely to reduce the rate of
profit-earning in relation to
capital in case excess-profits tax
becomes a serious factor in the
private-enterprise economy.
It would be most unwise to
expect maintenance of current
rates of dividend on old scrip
and bonus scrip in cases where
there has not been, in the past,
sufficiently wide margins of
profit over dividend distribu-
tions.
Looking at the market gener-
ally, investors buying for income
should realise that, however
high the wool cheque and the
level of Government spending,
manufacturers will, in the
majority of cases, still find their
profit-earning capacity limited
by the amount of coal, electric
power and manpower available.
In the case of 8.H.P., for
instance, the rise in wool prices
is likely to affect its profits
adversely.
B.H.P. would have no diffi-
culty this year in selling twice
its output if wool was only 20d.
a pound. But with wool nearer
five times that figure it will find
its costs up and its income no
higher than it would have been
anyway. This also applies to
many other concerns.
Woolbrokers, on the other
hand, are in a specially-favored
position. They have a very little
larger volume of wool to handle,
but the price—and their com-
mission—is infinitely greater.
Their fuel and manpower
problems are comparatively
minor ones.
Importers and other distri-
butors may cash in on Aus-
tralia’s high national income
this year. Makers of refrigera-
tors, etc., are also promised a
very profitable year, their steel
requirements being compara-
lively small, compared with, say,
iron-foundries. But motor-car
distributors now find themselves
affected by the demands of
overseas rearmament pro-
grammes.
Whatever the individual for-
tunes of various types of listed
public companies, there is no
doubt about the abundance of
investment —and speculation—
funds available. This is forcing
all types of stocks up to high
levels on the Stock Exchanges.
Whilst inflation and good long-
term industrial prospects may
justify many high prices being
paid, immediate returns do not,
and it seems that many people
speculating in the market don’t
really understand its weak points
and its strong ones.
Cyclops and Lines Bros.
Snapped up quickly by a
chosen few last week were the
80,000 ss. shares offered by
Cyclops and Lines Bros. (Aust.),
Ltd., underwritten by A. W.
Harvey, Lowe and Co., Sydney,
The shares were offered by the
co. at a premium of 6s. 3d. each.
Prior to the issue paid capital
was £BO,OOO in 320,000 ss.
shares, of which half were held
by Lines Bros., of Britain,
owners of the largest toy-factory
in the world. Paid capital will
now be £lOO,OOO, and share
premiums will total £25,000.
The Cyclops business, manu-
facturing wheel toys only, was
founded by the late John Heine
and his father in 1913. It was
formed into a company in 1916,
and moved to its present Leich-
hardt premises in 1926. Per-
ambulators and strollers now
represent a considerable propor-
tion of the co.’s activities. It
has established a very high
reputation for its products.
It was in September this year
that Lines Bros, acquired 50 p.c.
of Cyclops’s shares.
At December 31, 1949, the co.
had net tangible assets, conser-
vatively valued, of £143,866.
Out of this dividends of £17,116
were subsequently paid, and
£13,867 of tax-free reserves
transferred to capital (making it
£80,000). Allowing for the div.,
but bringing share-premiums
into account, net tangible assets
behind total present capital
would be approximately Bs. 6d.
a share on written-down book-
values. There has been no re-
valuation of assets for the pur-
pose of the issue.
On a paid-up capital of
£lOO,OOO net profits, allowing
for public-co. taxation, but not
undistributed-profits tax, were
equal to 9.7 p.c. for 1946, 16
p.c. for 1947, 17.2 p.c. for 1948
and 20.3 p.c. for 1949. Produc-
tion for the year to Dec. 31,
1950, will exceed that for 1949.
If the co. pays a 12} p.c. div.,
the yield at 1 Is. 3d. a share
would be 5} p.c. When the
scrip is available market deal-
ings may be at higher prices.
Newcastle Silt
“Abdul Assiz”; In view of the
serious position which has
arisen from the continued silta-
tion of Newcastle Harbor, and
by reason of the pressure
brought to bear on the respon-
sible bodies by the Newcastle
Chamber of Commerce and
others interested, steps pre-
viously described as imprac-
ticable have been taken.
As already pointed out (B.
6/12/’5O), one-shift working of
the Richard Vo well was unlikely
to act as anything more than a
palliative, but it has now been
arranged that the crew of the
dredge Latona, in Newcastle for
overhaul, will be transferred to
the Richard Vowell, thus
enabling the latter to work two
eight-hour shifts, partly at night.
This will be the first large-scale
night-dredging ever done in
Newcastle. The Dredge
Employees’ Union, also, have
agreed to work 11-hour shifts
on the other available dredges.
In addition, the Director of
Public Works is prepared to
negotiate with firms able to
supply their own labor and
equipment on long-term con-
tracts.
With two-shift use of the
“Don’t you know we close at three?”
Richard Vowell —for which the
dredge was designed—it is
hoped that the channels to the
B.H.P. wharves will be deepened
to the required navigable depth
in four to five months. It is
intended to cut a channel to the
crane-berths to allow colliers to
load fully; some of these ships
draw 27ft. 6in.
As long-term moves, an order
for a second drag-suction dredge
has been placed with the State
Dockyard, and it is possible that
a third dredge might be con-
structed following the com-
pletion of the second dredge.
Construction of a 600-ton
hopper has been approved and
will be placed soon, and a
Lobnitz rockbreaker is on
order.
This activity is very encourag-
ing after the long, tedious and
costly delays which have
extended over the last 15 years.
The proposal to obtain experts
from overseas to advise as to
the most economical and
efficient methods of deepening
Newcastle Harbor to navigable
depths and of maintaining it in
that condition is also all to the
good. The Press to the
Dutch Legation has justifiably
advocated that the experience
of his own nationals should be
used not only for the harbor,
but in Hunter Valley soil-
conservation. The claims of
British, American and German
experts, who have also done fine
work in this connection in
various parts of the world,
should not be overlooked.
Most important of all will be
the training of a permanent
staff of Australian experts.


CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
f
01
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARKERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine in
its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABBEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27U), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
DESIGN No. 6
New Beautiful Designs
FOR PROMPT DELIVERY
For your new Home, choose one of the new
Terra-Cotta Surrounds. They are available to
suit open fireplaces, gas fires or Wonderheat
and Kosi stoves, in a delightful mottled cream-
buff ceramic glaze that is everlasting and will
not stain or discolour, and is easy to clean.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, 'Phone
MX 2411 or write Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney for
illustrated Booklet of designs.
IREPLACE SURROUNDS
OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
II
IhJL
ovetu
/lamp!
//
Peach Lamp Shade
Polished Brass & Cream
Metal Parts
V
It’S *4
to
TILLEY!
TILLEY TABLE LAMPS (300 CANDLE POWER)
ARE AVAILABLE IN TWO SIZES
T.L 106 "THE QUEEN” 2li" High
T.L. 136 “THE PRINCESS” I6i" High
TILLEY.„ LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
~Tke JLa.rn.v2i mil
the 4-lay2Y2y
MANUFACTURED ONLY
AT HENDON, ENGLAND
BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Manufacturer’s Representatives:- BENTLEY JPTYj) R LTD;
MELBOURNE, Cl.
London airmail.
From Herbert Holman
Winter is cutting his teeth, and
the resultant pains are only in
part due to the twin physical
manifestations of frost and fog.
The most troublesome pain is
one of apprehension, and springs
from two interdependent factors,
one known and the other un-
known.
It is known that stocks
of coal are low and uncertain,
but as man has not yet learned
how to turn his planning genius
to the wide-scale control of
weather no one can be sure that
the coming winter will not be
severe. And, after three suc-
cessive mild winters, nobody in
truth can expect another one.
The best that can be said is
that we have been warned —if
any warning was needed —that
there might be a serious short-
age of fuel. Those house-
holders who possessed both a
sense of husbandry and a
spacious coal-cellar (the latter is
by far the rarer of the two)
have nothing to fear, since the
National Coal Board, through
the merchants, almost begged
them to replenish during the
summer months. What of the
rest? It is a grim and for-
bidding outlook.
Lord Hyndley, chairman of
the Coal Board, warned us two
months ago that there would be
a fuel shortage unless produc-
tion were increased. That was
taken as a timely breaking of
news rather than as a spur to
production. Mr. Noel-Baker,
Minister of Fuel and Power, has
now brought us up to date by
making first the House of
Commons and then the whole
country gasp for breath at the
announcement that the Govern-
ment is to buy coal from abroad.
Coals to Newcastle indeed! It
is true that he sought to soften
the blow by attributing the fall
in stocks (they were 700,000 tons
lower at the end of October
than expected) to the success of
the country’s export programme,
but without much effect upon
the average citizen, who now
knows that the situation is just
as bad as, if not worse than, he
thought it would be.
Even in this arrogant age of
political blacks and whites, when
no Government can ever fail in
its duty to the community, the
banner headline in the “Daily
Herald” next morning must
surely qualify for immortality of
its kind. It ran: Booming
Britain Outpaces Pits. Not
only is the Left always right,
but the cart has even managed
to run away with the horse. For
technical exactitude it bids fair
to stand alongside Ouida’s classic
“all rowed fast, but none so fast
as stroke,”
Inside the paper, the temper
of the leading article was rather
more subdued. The excuse that
the “quantity of coal imported
will probably be small” seems to
wear a thin disguise. It has been
heard before. Wasn’t it the nurse
in Mr. Midshipman Easy who
said, on another occasion of
great personal embarrassment:
“If you please, Ma’am, it was
only a very little one”?
Divided They Fall?
The creeping paralysis which
has overcome the Liberal party
can be diagnosed simply,
although not altogether cor-
rectly, as the result of a con-
flict between two hereditary
strains —in this instance between
the points of view of daughters
of famous fathers. Lady Megan
Lloyd George, deputy-leader of
the Parliamentary party, prefers
the Socialists to the Conserva-
tives as the lesser of two evils,
while Lady Violet Bonham-
Carter, vice-president of the
party and daughter of the late
H. H. Asquith, won’t have
Socialism at any price. How far
the differences in opinion are
due to family allegiance and how
far to political preference is
beyond deduction, but it speaks
ill for the recovery of an ailing
patient if there is lack of co-
ordination between heart and
head.
The future of the Liberal party
as a political entity does not
depend upon the electorate, of
whom upwards of 10 per cent,
are deprived of representation
because of the present system of
voting, for neither of the two
main parties is likely to counten-
ance the proportional method ;
nor will it depend upon Lady
Violet’s devastating wit. Only
those nine relics of a once-
mighty political force who have
seats in Parliament (and Lady
Violet is not among them) can
form the spearhead for the long
and patient rearguard action that
alone would restore their party
to significance.
The position at present is that
Lady Megan and her two col-
leagues are in disagreement with
their leader, Mr. Clement, Davies,
and his five colleagues. Lady
Megan inclines towards Mr.
Herbert Morrison, while Mr.
Davies would prefer a united
front focused on the traditional
liberal principles and conspicu-
ously inclined away from the
steamroller compulsion of the
Labor programme. Such a bloc,
even if comprised of only nine
small voices, might indeed exert
great influence upon the party
jockeyings of Britain’s Pre-
carious Parliament. But there
are no signs, either in the im-
mediate past or in the future, of
its practicability.
That long-standing fortress of
Liberalism the “Manchester
Guardian” has virtually dropped
the capital “L” and given up
the fight, being resignedly con-
tent to remark that Liberals dis-
like the close discipline of Par-
liamentary Whips. Their party,
it states bluntly enough, “is in a
sad mess.” Lady Violet, in her
mildly-sensational speech at
Cambridge, merely gave an ex-
pression to an equally sad and
well-understood fact when she
said: “There is no surer way
of killing a party or a
cause than by making it look
ridiculous.”
It is pertinent to record that
the electorate said the same thing
last February, but in figures in-
stead of words: for, out of 478
Liberal candidates, 319 forfeited
their deposits. Nothing has hap-
pened since to point to anything
but further disaster, if not, in-
deed, annihilation.
Orpheus
French playwrights are fond
of variations on classical themes.
Jean Anouilh has followed
“Antigone” with another exer-
cise in dramythology by bring-
ing the Orpheus-Eurydice legend
up to date. His play, rather mis-
leadingly entitled “Point of De-
parture” (Lyric Theatre, Ham-
mersmith), also gives him the dis-
tinction of having three plays
running concurrently in Eng-
land: two in London and one
in Birmingham.
For those who know Orpheus
only vaguely as a god-musician
who descended into the under-
world to fetch his wife, a pro-
gramme-note augments their
knowledge. It also has the
effect of subdividing the audience
into two parts:
(a) Those who are intrigued
at finding out how the author
works out the plot in terms of
the theatre, and
(b) Those who merely want to
sit back and be entertained.
There is satisfaction for both,
with the greater reward for the
latter, for nothing of pertinent
importance would be missed by
entering at the end of the first
act and leaving at the beginning
of the third. The rest is padding.
The scene is laid in modern
Proven9al France, with comings
and goings in la Buffet de la
Gare and quite outrageous go-
ings-on in a tawdry Marseilles
hotel. A young film-star, Dirk
Bogarde, plays both a piano-
accordion and the unfortunate
hero. His tense, agitated,
Chekhovian interpretation was
rightly hailed with bravos, and
perhaps it was not his fault that
it has no Olympian charm. Mai
Zetterling, as a petulant and
amoral Eurydice, is equally
down-to-earth in her very mortal
bickering. Stephen Murray is an
elegant and uncanny Mysterious
Stranger who connects the two
worlds. The delicious, if stage-
old, character-sketches of the
supporting cast make the padding
seem like muscle.


Women’s letters
From Sydney
A Merry Christmas to Bulletin
readers all over Australia. Santa Claus
reports that he finds this the happiest
country in the world and that he would
live here but for the heat and the diffi-
culty of keeping his reindeer away from
the racecourses.
The Australasian Pioneers’ Club’s
Christmas-party was a gay and lively one,
beginning at 5.30 p.m. and ending who-
knows-when. Apparently being a fourth-
or fifth-generation Australian increases
the capacity for merriment. The Frank
Waltons received the guests. The Jack
Shands were there, Mrs. Shand in a
glamorous black cocktail dress and a
pearl choker, and the Cowpers (Mac-
quarie) came in force, Judge and Mrs.
McKillop, Dick Pockley, the J. L. Muirs,
the C. L. Joneses (Jnr. couple), Nigel
Lovell, and Nell Wilson in a hat as white
and feathered as a swan.
The annual party given by the A.B.C.
committee to the members of Sydney
Symphony Orchestra has a special gaiety
when the guests-of-honor, who wear even-
ing dress to work, come in their party
clothes of sports coats and dashing ties.
The rooms were decorated by the ladies
of the committee, who included Lady
Anderson and Mrs. W. Hope-Gibson.
Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones (who donated
the two Christmas-cakes) looked hand-
some all in black with sparkles in her hat.
Lady Plowman wore tie-silk. Mrs. Harry
Evans (Beatrice Tange) was resplendent
in a magnificent coat of blue brocade,
which she wore later to “Song of Nor-
way.” The first-violins and second-
violas and clarinets and oboes all en-
joyed themselves, but the party finished
at the scheduled moment, for timing is
important to these folk and rehearsals
are always round the corner,
Alfred Hill, on his 80th birthday con-
cert, made us laugh at the busyness of
musicians in his “Welcome Overture,”
where the harp starts alone and the other
players hurry in one after the othet. The
conductor, who is the busiest of all,
rushes in last, just in time to wave a
baton before the overture ends. Will
things really have come to this by 1960,
as Mr. Hill predicts?
Among the nicest features of the pre-
Christmas period are the groups of
schoolboys and girls seen around town
eating up all the waffles and walnut
sauce they can find. They have been
freed by all kinds of breakings-up, from
those where everyone gets a prize (even
if it’s only for being the girl with the
longest plaits) to those where all prizes
are scorned. At the schools where
scholastic prizes are won it is noticeable
that the same group of “brains” comes up
time after time for books and congratu-
lations, while the rest of the kids have
but to sit and applaud.
Mention of a ’teenager in this Letter
some time ago brought the remark from
her school-friend: “Oh, Judy, how
wonderful to find you’ve become a
Socialist! ”
At Mrs, J. Burke’s cocktail-party for
her sister, Jean Garling, more than half
the guests had been mentioned in Jean’s
new book on the ballet, and the rest
seemed to be associated with music or
the arts in some way. It was not surpris-
ing, therefore, to notice a certain cham-
pagne quality in the conversation. Sir
Ben Fuller congratulated Jean on her
book, saying, among other things, that
she was a Gilgandra girl of old pioneer
stock. Mrs. Mary Helpmann, mother of
Sheila (“Bonaventure”) and Robert (“The
Red Shoes”) Helpmann, was present, as
were Madame Bodenweiser, Madame
Scott, Estelle Anderson, Doris Fitton,
Kurt Herweg, Mary Weston (from “Bona-
venture”), Mrs. C. T. Lorenz, Hilda
Mawby, the T. S. Gurr who wrote “Col-
lit’s Inn,” Dr. de Moncheaux, Mr. Justice
Nicholas, the Erik Langkers, the John
(“Corroboree”) Antills and the J. G.
Hurleys, from Pymble.
The “Song of Norway” chorus at the
Royal showed up Australian talents very
clearly in contrast to the imported leading
actors, who don’t seem to be able to sing
nearly as well as dozens of our local
warblers. It’ll be a long time, however,
before our composers can produce any-
thing as lovely as the Grieg melodies.
A cheque for £BOO was presented to the
secretary of the Eventide Homes, at the
Christmas dinner of the Soroptimists’
Club. The president, Mrs. Rose Shanks,
wore a striking dress of deep-sea green
pleated nylon, the secretary, Miss Lynette
Howarth, was in black chitfon. There
was a very good roll-up and the guests
were entertained by Marjorie Conley,
Judith Staff, Jess Storey and Phyllis
Burnett. The Soroptimists’ Club (this is
the County of Cumberland branch) is
formed on the lines of Rotary, each
member representing a different profes-
sion. At the dinner were a beauty
specialist, a pastrycook, a doctor of
biology, a travel agent, a musician, a
jeweller, an antique valuer, a chiropodist,
a grocer, a picture-show proprietor, etc.,
all women. It seems an ideal way to
prevent too much “shop-talk” at club
meetings, and a means of broadening
one’s interests.
This little cherub is Brenda Bolton,
aged 13, a student of the ballet and well
known in Sydney for her dancing at
private functions. Brenda is studying
with Lorraine Norton and is attending
the Conservatorium High School, where
her general subjects are allied to her study
of music and ballet. The younger
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. H. R. Bolton,
of Rose Bay, Brenda will not start her
professional career for another two years,
when she hopes to go to England. She
has won first-prize in the ballet section
of the City of Sydney Eisteddfod on two
occasions, and high hopes are held for
her future.
The V.As. celebrated Christmas with
a dinner at the Trocadero, followed by a
pageant written and produced by Hugh
St. Clair Cable and acted with a good
deal of zest by the girls. The tableaux
showing the range of their activities were
very enlightening. It would seem that
to join a Voluntary Aid Detachment is to
get a good slice of liberal education.
The costumes in the 1914 set were first-
class and caused a lot of amusement.
So were the costumes in the tableau
“This Freedom,” although some rather
curious figures were chosen to represent
liberty. King John and Napoleon Bona-
parte being two of them. Still, they were
offset by Queen Elizabeth and Admiral
Nelson, and the parchment representing
Magna Carta, which had the central place,
was a thing of beauty.
At the annual speech-day of Fort-
street Girls’ High School the head-
mistress, Miss Fanny Cohen, said that
the record of the school had always been
one of scholarship and endeavor, and
pointed out that from these things sprang
also fine character development and high
standards of citizenship. Dr. H. S. Wynd-
ham presided with a good deal of bon-
homie. Mr. H. D. Black gave an in-
teresting address, saying that in the pre-
sent world situation women’s talents were
needed more than ever. “It is a great
economic advantage to be born a boy,”
he said, “for parents spend more on boys’
educations than they do on girls’.” At
the University there were only 2000 girls
compared with 7000 boys, which meant
that a large potential of trained ability
among women was being lost to Aus-
tralia. Mr, Black’s buoyant and vital
style of speaking got a lively response
from the girls, calling up those waves of
youthful laughter which sound so en-
gagingly like hundreds of little bells
blown in a breeze. The school choir sang
with exquisite charm.
The English Speaking Union had its
Christmas party at the Pickwick, where
the decorations featured a monster
Christmas-tree and balloons as big as
flving-saucers. Commissioner Lamb, of
the Salvation Army, spoke ; so did Pro-
fessors Baxter and Winston. Mrs. C. W.
Prescott received the guests. Secretary
Bertha Clarke draped a beautiful old-
lace stole round her shoulders. Mrs.
Graham Swan wore a lovely gown of
green crepe. Mrs. Reg Ryrie’s Eastern
coat was much admired. Mrs. R. Bale
was in parma violet, Mrs. Vernon Cole
wore pink lace.
From Melbourne
For sheer elegance white is the color
of the season. Pure white fashions are
simple tailored suits, crisp in barathea,
linen and pique. White lace makes after-
noon frocks, and at night there is the
dramatic quality of tulle and organdie.
If you don’t care for pure white, try
one of the off-whites, which range from
palest cream to natural or oatmeal. Hats,
as always, are of supreme importance
and need lots of time and thought for
their choosing. Because dresses and suits
are so simple it is the hat that gives the
touch of elegance. On a hot day you
will wear a large straw cartwheel. After-
noon wear demands a large tulle hat, and
a cool day will bring out the small cloche
and the smart sailor. Flower-laden hats
are wonderful for cocktail-parties, and
must be worn with a plain silk suit or
frock. Choose accessories carefully.
One of the new dusters in black shantung,
faille or grosgrain for day wear, a short
evening wrap also in faille, or grosgrain,
or velvet. On the gay side wear carna-
tion posies, a necklace of old-fashioned
beads, earrings of beads or painted shells,
a long bright taffeta sash and long or
short gloves.
Decorations at the Town Hall for the
party given by Lord Mayor Disney and
his wife to councillors, their wives and
children, in the banqueting hall, were
superb. Highlight of the joyous scene
was the Christmas-tree, Which revolved
amid a sea of multi-toned hydrangeas.
Hydrangeas were also arranged in flower-
beds around the hall, and in each corner
stood a brightly-festooned Christmas-tree.
Fairy lights and giant gold Christmas-
bells were symbolic of the happy season
while a Santa Claus stood guard on either
side of the orchestra. Young and old
alike caught the spirit of “Noel.” The
Lady Mayoress pinned a black velvet
rose in the white grosgrain jacket she
wore with her frock of black, finely-
pleated chiffon. Lady Wales also chose
black and white —over her black crepe
gown she wore a short jacket of white and
silver lamd. In contrast was the brilliant
red lace gown worn by Lady Gengoult
Smith ; a bizarre note was the emerald-
green chiffon handkerchief she twisted
round one wrist.
The lass with the delicate air is Corinne,
only daughter of Mrs. A. Keegan, of
Toorak, and the late Mr. A. Keegan. She
is far from delicate in the medical sense,
however. At Mandeville Hall she was
tennis champion and many times winner
of the junior Garryowen. She celebrated
her 21st birthday on Saturday with a
cocktail-party at her home, to which 80
guests were invited. Next April, Corinne
is to marry Anthony, younger son of Mr.
J. P. Lewis, of Bulgunnia, South Aus-
tralia, and Mrs. Lewis, of St. Kilda-road,
He is an agricultural journalist on one
of this city’s weeklies.
As president of the Vic. Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Children,
Lady Gullett several years ago organised
the Derby Eve ball which has now be-
come an annual event. This year, in her
absence abroad, Mrs. T. O, M. Edwards
was president of the ball committee, and
when Lady Gullett invited the members
to a cocktail-party at her home, Orchard
Cottage, Toorak, she was more than de-
lighted when Mrs. Edwards handed her a
cheque for £2270, proceeds from the ball.
Lady Gullett received her guests in a
charming ballerina-length frock of gun-
metal faille, with deep revers finishing
the portrait neckline. Mrs. Edwards
chose a pastel-grey picture hat with a
fluted brim, which matched her crepe
frock made with a pleated skirt. Picture
hats were worn by many of the guests.
Lady Knox presided at a committee
meeting when it was decided that the con-
tributions arranged for Jubilee Year by
the National Theatre Arts Festival group
should include a Theatre Ball. Fancy
dress worn will depict characters from
ballet, opera and drama. Setting will be
St. Kilda Town Hall, and the date March
7. The National Theatre Ballet will give
a floor show at the ball. Mrs. Fred
Dennett is president of the committee and
Mrs. Colin Clafke secretary. Mrs.
Robert Lindsay, Mrs. Eric Aveiy and
Anne Spraggett are handling the tickets.
Wilma Harrison, who appeared with
Arthur Askey in “The Love Racket” and
other J. C. Williamson musicals, was
seen in a new role when she was recently
married at St. John’s Church, Camber-
well. Wilma is the third daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. W. N. Harrison, of Glen
Iris, and for her wedding chose a gown
of white broderie Anglaise, made over
ivory satin and featuring a Medici collar
and full bouffant skirt. From a Dutch
bonnet of broderie Anglaise fell the tulle
veil, and she carried a prayer-book and
trail of stephanotis. Two sisters of the
bride, Nancy and Valda, were attendants,
and their frocks were of ice-blue
broderie Anglaise made with bertha
collar cut into deep Vs at the back.
Their flowers were trails of Cecil Brunner
roses. The bridegroom, Jack, only son
of Mrs. Carson, of Northbridge
(Sydney), had Dick Cudlipp as best man
and Robert Taylor as groomsman.
Of country interest was the wedding at
Toorak Presbyterian Church of Janet
Mary Thomson, youngest daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. J. T. Laidlaw, of Kilara,
Hamilton, and Stuart Leslie, ychmgest
son of Mr. and Mrs. L. A. Austin, of
Darra, Meredith, The bride chose a full-
skirted gown of white silk organza with
Peter Pan collar and cuffs of white guipure
lace. Vertical panels of similar lace in
the skirt formed the full train. Her
three-tiered tulle veil was held with a
Juliet cap of lace and she carried a long
trail of gardenias and stephanotis. Anne
Stewart, of Hamilton, was ’maid. She
carried a bouquet of palest pink
Alchardia-lilies with her gown of ice-blue
figured organza. A half-circlet of similar
lilies was worn in her hair. John Fisken,
of Yendon, was best man.
At Grosvenor, Toorak, a Christmas-
party was given by Mr. and Mrs. lan
Potter, of South Yarra. Under a vener-
able oak-tree, the branches of which were
decorated with colorful fairy lights, guests
were received and had a convivial drink
before going into the house for dinner.
Later they gathered under the tree, which
was plunged into darkness, and by the
light of lanterns, singers wearing medieval
robes and cowls entertained with carols.
An unusual and lovely ballerina-length
gown of pale peacock-green faille was
chosen by Mrs. Potter. Smocking out-
lined the high waistline, and she wore a
matching bolero. White was the choice
of a number, among them Mrs. J. Bowen
Pain, whose gown of white faille featured
the peacock hemline. Wide shoulder-
straps of white guipure lace were featured
on the white grosgrain chosen by Mrs.
David Syme, and over black taffeta Mrs.
Douglas Stephens wore a flowing gown
of white broderie Anglaise. Lady
Chauvel’s gown and matching hip-length
jacket were of plum-toned moire taffeta.
Lady Gullett chose olive-green satin and
Lady Snow teamed a bouffant skirt of
champagne tulle with a strapless top of
black Chantilly lace. Mrs. Maurice
Nicholas’s aqua-blue satin was strapless
and trimmed with masses of jet beads,
Mrs. Reg Baillieu chose powder-blue
chiffon and Mrs. Harold Holt’s gown was
a froth of pastel-blue tulle worn with a
matching stole. Mrs. Paddy Moran chose
smart black satin and her cocktail hat was
finished with ospreys. Amber tulle
trimmed around the shoulders with gold
and amber sequins was the choice of Mrs.
Maurice Sloman, and Mrs. E. S. Billson
wore a navy-blue faille ballerina frock.
A holly wreath tied with scarlet ribbons
on the front door and with a large replica
of Father Christmas in a corner of the
porch greeted those who went to the
Christmas-party given by Dr. and Mrs.
J. E. Shilliday, at their home in Box Hill.
The reception-rooms were filled with
bowls of Christmas-lilies, and holly-leaves
were entwined about colored lights across
the ceilings. An emerald-green lace cock-
tail frock clothed Mrs. Shilliday. Her
daughter, Wanda, encircled the slim waist
of her black faille frock with a belt of
gold sequins and colored beads. Lillian
Wightman’s delightful Patou model-frock
was of chiffon with wild orchids printed
on black; her large straw hat was of
cinnamon-brown. Mrs. Herbert Benton
was smart in black grosgrain and a wide-
brimmed black straw hat. Gloria Ladd
was pretty in a black chiffon frock con-
trasted with a halo of pastel-pink silk
roses; her mother, Mrs. W. H. Horsfall,
chose a cinnamon-brown lace frock. Mrs.
Lionel Newton’s choice was amber satin
with an overdress of black Chantilly lace.
Cyclamen-shot taffeta made the ballerina
frock worn by Mrs. A. Colman, Mrs.
Tim Jones’s choice was black chiffon, and
Mrs. Frank Watts Wore black moire
taffeta,


Don’t say Gin
• • • say
ET
o
O
\=4
PERSONAL ITEMS
In Queensland looking over the pas-
toral and sugar interests of the Australian
Estates Co.-, of which he’s a director,
Major - General William Revell - Smith,
who, born in Toorak (Vic,), started his
career jackerooing on Milo cattle-station,
near Adavale (Q.), and ended as G.O.C.
Malta and North Africa. In between
he’s served 33 years with a Royal
Artillery regiment, part of it in the
Kaiser’s war (M.C. and Bar, Croix de
Guerre and a “mention”), in India and
Egypt in the peace years, and in World.
War II in n.-w, Europe and in com-
mand of the Ist Anti-aircraft Group in
England (D. 5.0., C.8.E., C. 8.). Retired
from the Army in 1949, he now raises
cattle and tobacco in Rhodesia, for
which he leaves after inspecting proper-
ties round Mackay, Townsville and wes-
tern Queensland. His wife, accompany-
ing, also rates three decorations for her
1914-18 nursing work and is a sister of
London’s Lud Mayor.
A Christmas present came the way of
First-Constable John Hodgson last week
for a nice bit of cold courage on Christ-
mas Day last year. Informed that
thieves in a high-powered car had robbed
a Cowes (Vic.) guesthouse of £3OOO,
Hodgson raced to the Phillip Island-
San Remo bridge, across which lay the
only escape to the mainland, and waited.
The car roared bridgewards at 80 m.p.h.;
the policeman jumped into the middle of
the road, gave a warning shout, and, as
the car hurtled straight at him, crouched
and let go with five shots, two of which
found their target. That pulled her up,
got three criminals a sentence and the
policeman the coveted Valor Badge.
Off to Oxford with N. S. Wales’s 1951
Rhodes Scholarship in his bag, 22-year-
old Adrian Henchman, law-student of
Sydney University. Cricket, tennis and
debating are his sports. Bachelor of Arts
his target at Oxford.
Also for Oxford from Sydney Uni-
versity, another man of law (though of
somewhat different degree), Professor
Kenneth Shatwell, one-time Professor of
Law at Tasmania’s University, now Dean
of the Faculty in Sydney’s. He’ll visit
Belfast as well, on an annual invitation to
“a scholar or scientist of distinction”
from the British Council.
“Fitz”: The Bulletin has had many clergy-
men as contributors (including Bishop Eris
O’Brien, James Hebblethwaite, David McKee
Wright and Wilfred Mailler), but non* has
had a longer connection than Rev. W. H.
MacFarlane (“C. Coral,” “Wandana” and
“Derwent”), who sent his first par. in over 50
years ago. Retired from the Anglican ministry
in 1946 and now living, at Bridport (Tas.), he
was born at Yorketown (S.A.) in 1884. After
country-corresponding for Adelaide “Advertiser”
he founded the “South Yorke Peninsula
Clarion,” and owned and edited it until the
Church called him in 1906. Training at St.
Aidan’s College, Ballarat, he was ordained
priest in 1911, and for three years worked in
Western Victoria, establishing churches and
parishes in the Cressy and Lismore areas; for
the next three years he was in the Victorian
Mallee, doing much the same thing. In 1915
Rev. MacFarlane married a clergyman’s
daughter; both having strong missionary
interests they offered for work with the
Melanesian Mission, and were stationed first
on Darnley Island, then Thursday Island.
For the six following years Rev. MacFarlane
was Administrator of the Diocese of Carpen-
taria in the absence of the Bishop; his district
covered a vast area, and most of his travelling
was done on luggers with native crews. While
in Torres Strait he met many w'andering
Bulletin scribes, including lon Idriess, and it
was while there that The Bulletin came to
recognise him as one of its most valuable
contributors from up north. Since he left the
Islands in 1933 he has been rector of various
Tasmanian parishes. Printer’s ink is in the
MacFarlane family. His wife has written for
the “Woman’s Mirror” almost from its begin-
ning, and all their four children write for the
Press —the elder son, R. H. MacFarlane, is
Melbourne manager of the Yaffa newspaper
syndicate.
Visiting Melbourne, Sir John Anderson,
bulky Scot, who is boss of the
great Port of London Authority. From
Australia alone P.L.A. has handled some
£ 50-million-worth of produce.
An enthusiastic Rugbyite in Justice
Leslie Herron goes to London to repre-
sent Australia at the International Rugby
Union conference there. One-time chair-
man of the management committee of
N.S.W. Union, he’s now Australian presi-
dent. His Honor has worked exceptionally
hard for the amateur code.
Closed his session in Wellington, at 66,
Peter Fraser, the second carpenter-by-
origin to lead a New Zealand Ministry.
The first was Hall-Jones, P.M. for two
months back in 1906. Fraser learnt his
carpentering in Scotland, but when he
landed in New Zealand in 1910 the only
job offering was wharf-lumping. Then,
as right through his career, he was not
overtalkative, but what he did say im-
pressed his workmates sufficiently for
them to elect him president of the
General Laborers’ Union inside a year.
Having learnt to talk through his pen, he
became editor of the “Maoriland
Worker” ; Wellington Central put him
into Parliament in 1918, and he repre-
sented that constituency to the end. Be-
coming Prime Minister when Mick
Savage died in April, 1940, he took the
Fern Land through its fiercest war. Not
so friendly as Savage, not so stern as
Holland, Fraser managed to combine the
political cleverness of the one with the
firmness of the other.
Cabled that the New York Academy
of Science has granted a life-membership
to Dr. Francis Burnet, director of the
Walter and Eliza Hall Institute in Mel-
bourne. The academy declared Dr.
Burnet to be “an outstanding authority
on virus diseases,” which means that he
probably knows more about the common-
cold than any man living; he’s been
chasing the wog most of his lifetime.
Other contributions the doc. has made
to our virus knowledge include an anti-
snake-poison serum and some of the
deepest investigations into the causes of
infantile-paralysis that have yet been
made. On a recent visit to New York
he lectured to the Academy of Science,
and last year received the Royal Society’s
gold medal, the first Australian to gain
the distinction.
Herewith part of the 17-stone-odd of
a big man in a big business —M. R.
Hornibrook, who can fairly lay claim to
being the biggest contractor in Queens-
land. Jobs bearing his imprint are the
Hornibrook Highway, connecting Sand-
gate and Woody Point (Q.), the Story
HIGHWAYS AND BRIDGES.
and Grey-street bridges spanning Bris-
bane River, Rockhampton's water-supply
and Mackay harbor’s No. 1 pier. At
present M.R. is driving a tunnel, 2000 ft.
long, 200 ft. below Brisbane River to pro-
vide a north-south sewerage connection.
As well, his subsidiary companies in Syd-
ney built the Iron Cove bridge and
altered the Sydney suburb of North-
bridge’s suspension-bridge, leaving the
lovely arch of brown stone still spanning
a wooded arm of the harbor. All this
from a start at 18, when he founded his
own building business. He’s now 57.
Two hundred guineas is a large, a
respectable, a beautiful sum of money, and
on that account alone the Rev, Michael
Scott instantly inspired a Bulletin inter-
viewer with feelings akin to religious
awe ; Father Scott is the prime mover
in a conspiracy to award this handsome
prize to an Australian artist for a
religious painting. Rector of Riverview
Preparatory School, Point Piper (N.S.W.),
Father Scott saw so many insipid
medieval religious paintings in Europe
and such stimulating new work in
murals, stained glass and architecture
being done in the churches of Holzmeister
RELIGIOUS GUINEAS.
in Vienna that he thought something
should be done to revive religious paint-
ing in Australia. He talked it over with
an anonymous friend, who offered a
prize of 100 guineas; Hugh Macken,
managing-director of Mark Foys, added
another 100 guineas; and the result is
the Blake Prize competition which
closes on March 31, 1951 —details
were published in The Bulletin,
inside back-cover, 18/10/’5O. It is
hoped to make the competition an
annual event. A non-denominational
committee of judges includes the Rev.
Alan Tory (Presbyterian) and Mr. Brian
Hone (new headmaster of Melbourne
Grammar School); everybody, in fact,
except one obvious choice, the Religious
Editor of The Bulletin.
Thirty-one-year-old L.C.P. hope for
Fawkner (Vic.) in the next Federal furore,
Peter Howson was an R.N. fleet-air-arm
pilot at the defence of the George Cross
island. Out on anti-sub. patrol, he was
sent down by Messerschmitts, and,
wounded in the face and arms, struggled
for two hours against the sea and his
attackers’ machine-guns before an air-sea-
rescue boat hauled him aboard. He had
already been “mentioned” for interrupt-
ing the passage of a Rommel-bound
Italian supply-ship. M.A. from Cam-
bridge, London-born of Australian
parents, with three years Admiralty time
before coming home for good in 1946,
Howson had a taste of what he can ex-
pect on Melbourne hustings when he
spoke for the British Conservatives in
1945.
“F.S.”: Professor G. W. Paton, booked
as next vice-chancellor of Melbourne
University, is the son of a parson, was
educated at Scotch College and Ormond,
graduated in Arts and Law and landed
in Oxford as the 1926 Rhodes Scholar.
At 29 he found himself the youngest
member of the professorial body at his
Alma Mater as Professor of Jurisprud-
ence in successor to Professor Bailey. He
thinks law and talks law, and wants no
specific changes at the university except
in architecture. He doesn’t want any
more Gothic “gems” up there (there
aren’t any, it’s all pseudo-Gothic), but
wants “magnificent modern buildings.”
He will no doubt get them, and they will
be like the appalling frame that was put
round the facade of a nice old bank
removed from Collins-street, which now
looks like a tophat on the head of a
South Sea islander.
Probably the first book pub-
lished in Australia to elevate Australian
food and wine into world-class as material
for gastronomic pleasures is The Chef
Suggests, by John D. Porter. Porter is
the robust individual who founded
“Porter’s Mob,” the concert-party which
entertained hordes of Allied troops in the
South Pacific in War 11. He was also
the founder of the Melbourne Lud
Mayor’s holiday-camp at Portsea, in
association with Norman Myer and the
then-incumbent, Thomas Nettlefold.
Porter’s other interests include caravans ;
his How to Build Caravans, written when
he was in Caulfield Military Hospital after
War I, makes an annual appearance in
fresh and revised editions. And his Our
Fertile North, dealing with Centralian
development, also proved a good seller.
His latest book had an excellent recep-
tion in London and Paris, and Andrd
Simon, the world’s leading wine and food
critic, placed it in the frant rank of books
dealing with wine-cooking. It is being
reprinted in three languages. Porter is
no mere academic authority. The menu
for the Christmas dinner he serves to 80
guests in his backyard in Melbourne (with
his garage turned into a cocktail-bar)
includes sucking-pig, goose, duck stuffed
with oysters, turkey, pheasant and grouse
(if the ship arrives in time from England),
all cooked in Australian wines and some
in mud after the abo, cuisine which he
studied when in the Centre —and he cooks
it all himself!
“Cauboy”: Some men grow quickly like
poplars, some slowly like oaks, and singer
Horace Ernest Stevens (B. 6/12/’5O) practised
as a Collins-street dentist for 20 years, was
champion sculler of Victoria in 1910 and served
as a captain in the Field Ambulance in War I
before making his belated debut on the concert-
platform at 35, when he sang at the Queen’s
Hall, London, under Sir Henry Wood’s baton.
He sang in almost every great English musical
festival thereafter, in Welsh eisteddfods and in
American festivals at Cincinnati, Boston and
New York as an oratorio singer, debouched
on the English opera-stage at Covent Garden
and created the role of Hiawatha at the Albert
Half in 1924. The amount of singing he did
between his first association with St. Paul’s
Cathedral choir as a boy-soprano—he sang at
its first service and under the scaffolding of the
central tower before it was completed—and his
assumption of Dr. Floyd’s post as choirmaster
was almost incredible. He died in harness, a
teacher at Melbourne University Conservatorium.
New Guinea is to have its flying
missionaries now, E. B. Harlwig, of
Surrey Hills, Melbourne, and Robert
Hutchins, of the U.S., being the first.
Based on Madang, the service will dairy
stores, cargo, white preachers, native
missionaries and ambulance-cases to and
from inaccessible parts of the island. It’s
run by the Australian Missionary Avia-
tion Fellowship, which has already made
surveys of northern Australia and New
Guinea.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, Mrs. Cecilia Cremean, mother
of J. Cremean, Federal member for Hoddle.
She was a descendant of Daniel O’Connell, the
Irish patriot.
At Ongaroto Pa, Atiamuri (M.L.), 26 miles
from Rotorua, at 119, Mihiora te Ngaroata
Watene, a Maori chieftainess of the Ngati-
Whaita, Raukawa and Tuwharetoa tribes. Of
an extraordinary memory, she remembered and
was able to point out signatories of the Treaty
of Waitangi, which was signed over 100 years
ago.
On the Hume Highway, near Broadford
(Vic.), Byron Bonney, professional cyclist who
won the classic track-event, the 1949 Austral
wheel-race. His brother Stan won the road-
classic of Australian cycling—the Healing
Melbourne-Warrnambool road-race —the same
year.
In Sydney, at 47, Phillip Lewis, old hand of
the theatre and radio; first stage-manager and
a foundation member of Sydney’s Independent
Theatre. For the past 12 years he had been
play-producing with the A.B.C.
At 87, in Brisbane, Michael O’Sullivan, a
County Cork man who landed at Rockhampton
from a windjammer in 1882 and joined the Q.
Mounted Police. The first gold-warden in Mt.
Morgan, in the roaring days of the ’9o’s, he
ended as chief-inspector of police. A natural
first-class horseman, O’Sullivan put between
covers his police experiences in the Wintpn,
Warrego and Maranoa country. The title,
Cameos of Crime, was suggested by a Bulletin
man of the day. Accepted as authoritative on
the period, the book ran to a second edition
in 1947.
In Melbourne, Captain H. L. Quick, R.A.N.,
a former Director of Naval Reserves. He
served in the Pacific and the North Sea in
War I, and in 1922 commanded the inter-
national expedition which observed the eclipse
of the sun from the n.-w. coast of Australia.


a Study In Pride
by Ethel anderson
* ‘ S~\ F course your dear
I 1 Mama must accept his
V / Excellency’s invitation.
It is a command.”
The Rector of Mallow’s
Marsh voiced his agreement
with his granddaughter Juliet’s
impulsive “Oh! Mama must
go! How beautiful she will
look!”
Every member of the McCree
family was gathered in the
shabby morning-room at the
Rectory into which sunlight was
streaming wholly unimpeded by
the threadbare curtains.
Mr. and Mrs. McCree, their
widowed daughter -in - law,
Peronel, and their grandchildren
Juliet and Donalbain (aged five)
were opening the mail, scarcely
five minutes back delivered by a
red - coated, white - helmeted
postie, who was now being
regaled with small ale and baps
in the kitchen.
Cook-Teresa naturally offered
sustenance to a man who had
walked five miles to deliver two
letters; and since every other
client on his beat also enter-
tained him, with rum, peach-
beer, cider, penny-ale, mum, or
any other liquor that came
handy, the road that seemed
so straight and flat when he
started out from Parramatta at
dawn was apt to seem hilly and
curly as he trudged home after
a round of fourteen miles.
Today postie had brought to
Mallow’s Marsh Rectory two
letters, one of which had a gold
crown embossed on the flap of
the envelope.
This was addressed (in very
bad writing) to Mrs. Augustus
McCree (who had “Oh, my
dear, been nobody, nobody at
all!”), and in it was a gold-
inscribed card which begged in
dispirited prose for the honor of
her company at a ball, to be
held at Government House,
Parramatta, on November 5.
“Is it for Guy Fawkes?”
Donalbain wanted to know.
Mrs. Augustus McCree (who
had been nobody) could easily
have made a fourth when the
three goddesses stood up for
judgment on Mount Ida. Paris
would certainly have awarded
her the apple, for she had less
flesh than Juno, less intellectual
acidity, less string in her limbs
than Minerva (who was never in
the running, for she was not his
sort, anyway), and her supple
figure, her patrician yet delicious
face with its short upper-lip, its
cherry-red, bee-stung under-lip,
its desolating cheekbones, which
seemed to have known such
sorrow and quite contradicted
the Mona-Lisalike ambiguity of
the inviting eyes (so full of sly
caresses), certainly outvied the
beauty of any known portrait of
Venus herself.
\7 ES, Peronel McCree was
I even more beautiful than
Botticelli’s shell-borne migrant,
or Titian’s roaring girl, or
Giorgione’s almost perfect sleep-
ing Queen of Love.
A bloom of ineffable youth
far excelling theirs veiling the
rose of her cheek, a luminous
quality in her milk-white skin
causing it to glow as if seen
through an alabaster lamp, her
rich fan of most curious hair
flaming round her small,
proudly-poised head, like a
torch, Peronel was altogether
lovely.
This Mrs. Augustus McCree
had for a guardian angel a
somewhat battered custodian of
great ability but debatable piety,
really rather a trollop (female)
or gamin (male) if the truth
must be confessed, who was
capable of leading her into any
mischief.
“Guardian angels are bound
to vary in merit just as ordinary
people do,” Peronel had assured
herself on first realising this
charming creature’s limitations,
“but who am I to expect to have
allotted to me the most efficient
angel in high Heaven? I must
make do with the one appointed
to pje.”
And did he (or she) lead her
a dance?
Or did she lead him (or her)
a dance?
It was difficult to say.
As for the indeterminate sex
of such a heavenly visitant,
Peronel called her guardian
“him” or “he” ; it sounded more
dashing.
Mrs. Augustus had the habit
of standing with wide-open eyes
fixed on some spot just beyond
the orbit of vision. With the
crested envelope in her hand so
she stood on this sunny morning,
her white - spotted muslin
wrapper (resented by every
woman in the house) clouded
with a hundred goffered frills,
green bows decking it from chin
to instep; wide bows these,
accentuating at five - inch
intervals the titillating undula-
tions of her sweetly inflated
body.
The question, of course, was
—what should she wear?
About this everyone was most
helpful, though “a drawback,
really,” as Juliet said, there was
absolutely no money to be spent.
Not a penny.
“If you unpick Juliet’s brides-
maid’s dress, the cream nun’s-
veiling she wore at dear Aminta
Wirraway’s wedding, and eke it
out with an extra yard or two
of red plush, you might contrive
a most striking toilette at the
cost of a dozen eggs, which I
will give you, dear,” Mrs.
McCree offered kindly.
“I think the curtains off
Grandmama’s four-poster would
make a unique and magical
dress! They are watered silk,
of such a beautiful shade of
maroon, almost magenta, really
—though one likes to forget
about the blood, for I think
magenta comes from the color
of the earth after that battle,”
Juliet interposed. “But you may
have my dress if you like.
Mama; I can easily resew it,
without the plush, for my con-
firmation next year.”
Speculation often glinted in
Juliet’s eyes when she looked at
her radiant Mama. Like the
rest of the household she did not
quite trust her, though to do
her enterprising guardian angel
justice, the young widow’s
conduct for the six months of
her recent widowhood had been
exemplary, impeccable, remote
certainly, but, as far as the
watching women who sur-
rounded her were aware, blame-
less,
A N absence of privacy is the
chief drawback of family
life.
Remarking on the shifts that
the reader of a love-letter may
be put to, Boccaccio, even, has
commented on this disadvantage.
The unblinking limelight of
affection was a sore trial to
Peronel and her guardian angel.
Both, therefore were delighted
when, at breakfast, a week after
an acceptance to the Governor’s
invitation had been dispatched,
Mrs. McCree announced that
her whole family must attend a
party of reconciliation planned
by her brother (who had been
somewhat estranged from her)
in Parramatta. On the strength
of her own absence she gave all
the servants a holiday.
Peronel, protesting the
Penelope-like task of unpicking
and resewing the nun’s-veiling,
to be her ball gown, stayed at
home.
She waved gaily from the
front door as the buckboard, the
young draft-horse. Ruby, be-
tween the shafts, lurched off
down the long straight road and
disappeared behind the turn by
the church tower, the only twist,
and the only building, between
Mallow’s Marsh and the
metropolis.
How delighted Peronel was to
be alone!
For a while, merely to be in
the sunshine, she wandered
about, without purpose, in the
garden, and punished the in-
solence of nature by stamping
on a daisy. From the arbor of
passion-vines, from the ripening
orchard, the field of green wheat,
the drilled rows of corn, the
innumerable wooden sheds
dedicated to the procreation of
domestic life which had sprung
up under the wand of Mrs.
McCree fill they surrounded the
Rectory like mushrooms ; right
to the blue, entrancing line
where the Razorbacks shaved
the sky, the stillness was com-
plete.
The hens clucked not. the
cows lowed not, the river
chuckled not; all was silence.
All was sunshine.
Behind the Rectory no buxom
women laughed with the men-
servants, indoors no high-piping
childish voices argued about
this and that. Every door and
window in the house stood wide
open. “Not even a thief to be
expected!” Oppressed a little,
Peronel strayed inside.
She bent her steps first to this
room, then to another, enjoying
as she went some intimate and
revealing conversations with her
guardian angel, with whom she
was scarcely acquainted (he was
new), and whose wings, she now
noticed, were slightly singed.
But she had no misgivings;
they suited each other, they
understand one another per-
fectly.
Both agreed that in this
isolated spot, in this barebones
of a house, so threadbare, so
niggardly with the joys and
enjoyments of this life, so lavish
in promises of the next, there
was no scope for either of them,
no, none at all.
How they laughed together at
the absurd picture of Boadicea
with her two girls, in a chariot,
on the snuggery wall; at the
statue of the Wingless Victory
in the linoleum-covered hall; at
the colored engraving of the
Duchess of Devonshire kissing a
butcher (for “political reasons,”
as the text explained); and at all
the smug daguerrotypes and
washed-out miniatures that
infested the drawing-room.
The woolwork flowers under
a glass dome!
The beaded footstools!
The S-shaped conversation
sofa meant for flirtations!
The antimacassars tied on
every chair-top, on which no
pomaded male head had ever
rested!
“Is this to be my home for the
rest of my life?” Peronel ex-
claimed.
“No, indeed!” answered the
guardian angel indignantly.
“Am I, Peronel McCree,'to go
to the Governor’s ball in -my
daughter’s. cast-off clothes? In
a perfectly hideous dress?”
“No, no! ” The guardian
angel was positive. “Indeed you
shall not!”
“With no money, and just a
dozen pullets’ eggs to sell, how
can I get a better dress?”
To Peronel this question was
purely rhetorical. She had then
no hope of getting a better, but
her guardian angel looked sly;
evidently he had something up
his wing.
Obviously the house
offered no alternative to re-
making her daughter’s dress.
There were no curtains to be
taken down, no hidden lengths
of silk to be purloined. But it
was three o’clock before
Peronel, weak with laughter,
settled herself at the antique
sewing-machine in the morning-
room, that was, so easily, the
shabbiest room in the house, to
pedal vigorously away at a
wrought-iron treddle whose ac-
tivities depended on a rubber-
band that slipped continually
off its wheel. To snip! To tear!
To tack! Though she hated
such work, she had a genius for
it. Since she was one of those
people who never gave less than
their best, the toilette (at the
word she laughed again) began
to assume quite a Parisian air.
“Certainly,” she told her soul-
mate, “it dashes.”
She was standing, draped in
loops of nun’s-veiling, in the
room, which faced north and
west so sunlight still streamed
into it, and the motes still
danced in the yellow beams that
fell on her, had she known it,
with a dramatic effectiveness,
when, looking across to the
door, she saw a young man
looking in.
He made a very low bow, a
most distinguished salutation,
his black low-crowned shovel-
hat, with its rough nap, not at
all like the headgear worn in
Parramatta, sweeping far back,
as his eyes fixed themselves on
his boots.
“Of the great world! ” Peronel
realised at once. She nudged
her guardian angel to let him
know she recognised his handi-
work and he hopped out of the
window and flew off to settle on
the orchard wall; he was no
spoil-sport.
Peronel’s visitor wore a red
coat cut rather short at the
waist in front, but having
longer skirts at the back. His
waistcoat was of red-and-yel-
low striped cloth, his breeches
were white, with straps buckled
below the knees, and his
mustard-yellow gaiters were but-
toned over Wellington boots.
Or were they Hessians? And
were Hessians boots? Or were
they breeches? Peronel was
vague.
But she was not at all vague
in her perception of her visi-
tor’s good looks. He was re-
markably handsome. The chin
that asserted itself above his
white stock showed him to be
a man of character; he was no
mere dandy.
The young widow looked into
his blue eyes and knew she had
never seen any so blue. Her
caressing gaze took in his
aquiline nose, the tanned skin
that made his fair hair almost
white by comparison.
Peronel had never in her life
seen so glorious a being.
Glancing out of the window
she perceived that her guardian
angel looked smug. As she
opened her lips in greeting a
shower of pins fell on the car-
pet, but she inclined her head in
stately recognition of his civility.
“I could make no one hear so
I tied my nag to the veranda-
post and tracked down the whirr
of your machine. Are you at
home?”
“Not at home,” she answered
sadly. “Mrs. Augustus McCree
is not receiving this after-
noon.”
“What a bore,” the young man
remarked as he entered and took


a chair beside the sewing-
machine, removing, as he seated
hinudf, a froth of flounces. “I
was so much looking forward to
making her acquaintance.”
“The whole family have driven
into Parramatta.”
“I passed them on my ride
here.”
“Oh?”
Peronel again seated herself
at the sewing-machine.
“And what were you looking
at so intently on that part of
the wall where I see nothing?”
“At my guardian angel,”
Peronel returned, stooping to re-
place the rubber-band on its
wheel.
“Is he having the afternoon
off?” There was a note of hope
in his voice.
“No. I keep him within call.”
“I expect he leads a busy life.
What is he like?”
“His face is a bit like a
swan’s —it has that sideways
look. He is very fair, a white-
winged angel (of the Wyandotte
family, I dare say) and he has
a magnificent spread of wings—
these are, unfortunately, a little
singed. My last guardian left
without a character. I had not
a good word to say for him.”
She bit a thread. “In fairness
to others one must be truthful,
don’t you think, even when
writing out a reference for an
archangel?”
“What was the trouble?” The
blue eyes met hers.
“Just want of speed on my
part. I simply could not keep
up with him. However, one
hardly realises the troubles an
angel may have.”
“Yes?” he prompted.
He was certainly very good-
looking.
“He said it was hard, in this
flat, treeless bit of country, to
find a decent place to perch. He
said he had to hover over the
clothes-line, for there wasn’t a
safe bough up to his weight, and
the orchard wall was too low to
give him a good take-off. Yes,
poor thing. He had to hover so
much that it tired his wings. In
that fatigued state he found
Heaven too far to fly to, and he
took to dropping in on Hell on
his evenings off. It was sad,
really.”
Her vis-d-vis was now holding
one end of a flounce while she
fed the machine: there was a
sociable air of work shared.
“You feel you can trust your
present fellah?” He expressed
anxiety. “Feel you can depend
on him, and all that?”
HISTORY has not vouchsafed
a portrait of Paris. Did he
have a perfectly-proportioned
body which was the acme of
masculine strength? Was he en-
dowed with an athlete’s grace of
movement? Did he have a head
like Phoebus Apollo? If so,
looking at her visitor, Peronel
felt she could guess what Paris
looked like. And Hyacinthus,
now? There was no authentic
portrait of the youth who died
of love for his own reflection,
but Peronel rather wondered
that this self-assured young man
could tear himself away from
his mirror. Looking at him she
got an inkling of what Hyacin-
thus might have been like.
It has not been customary,
even for poets, to hymn the
beauty of the male, a strange in-
hibition suggestive of what? Of
what, indeed? Few portraits,
even those of the heroes of an-
tiquity, are meant to emphasise
masculine good looks merely;
fewer still portray the wit that
may lurk in a wanton blue eye.
Exposed in her helpless state to
the full appeal of such devastat-
ing enchantments, Peronel be- 1
haved with perfect propriety.
Her guardian angel would have
been disappointed in her.
Her caller, on his part, hav-
ing felt her eyes caress him,
their touch, as they rested on his
face, mothlike in lightness,
seductive as the brush of thistle-
down, presently went off, be-
witched. Pleased with his own
sensations, he gave no hint of
what he felt, but he booked the
first six dances at the coming
ball.
“And may I take you in to
supper?”
He might.
“And may I drive you home
after the dance?”
“Perhaps.” She was demure,
“I must ask my guardian angel
about that.”
When he had bobbed out of
sight behind the pear-trees
Peronel realised that she did not
know his name. But —had he a
name ? Had he, in fact, any
reality of person? Was he not
a wraith born of her own
imagination? Or had that dis-
missed guardian angel, by way
of revenge, sent one of his less
reputable friends to lead her
astray?
Peronel trembled.
Doubts assailed her.
Temptation followed in the
train of her misgivings.
Quite suddenly and with an
absolutely firm resolution, she
decided then and there that noth-
ing—nothing—would induce her
to wear the nun’s-veiling dress at
the ball.
What! Be a laughing-stock to
such people as were his friends?
What! See those china-blue
eyes rest with amusement on her
rustic finery?
What! Find him cutting his
dances with her—for the shame
of being seen with her?
At this last thought Peronel
knew that she was ready to com-
mit any crime in order to get a
dress that would make her the
most fashionable, the most
alluring siren in Parramatta.
Yes! She would sin, if neces-
sary! And when her guardian
angel rejoined her, a little
dishevelled, as a wind had risen,
a strange cold wind for a sum-
mer evening, she told him so.
He did not seem at all sur-
P*.i 1 r 1
“Yes^yes 0 ” 1 she ?f murmured,
listening to him in great excite-
ment her head bent close to his
tempting mouth. “Yes, I catch
your drift. I will finish the
nun’s-veiling dress as if I meant
to wear it, and then, at the last
minute, yes, yes, I understand,
as late as possible, as late as it
would be safe to leave it”
There was a further whispered
suggestion.
Peronel was shocked.
“Oh, I couldn’t!”
BUT during the coming night
she weakened.
After all, she asked herseif,
what harm could come of fol-
lowing a guardian angel’s advice?
Peronel spent most of the
night leaning out of her bed-
room window and watching the
sullied and shrivelled moon sulk
behind a bank of cloud, while
flocks of curlews, flying inland,
whistled over the Picton hills.
Like the Naxian window delici-
ously disarrayed, her eyes violet-
ringed, she watched the sunrise,
unaware that she had not slept a
wink.
Early in the morning she
harnessed Ruby into the sulky
and drove herself into Parra-
matta.
Usually, lately, she had
avoided seeing people, but today
she stopped to talk to everyone
she met, to gossip, to ask ques-
tions.
“He is not a nincompoop,”
Dr. Phantom remarked.
“They say he fought at Luck-
now and at Delhi.” So the
chemist.
“He was in the Sandbag Bat-
tery, in the Crimea.” Dr. Bois-
ragon was for once quite affable.
“His name?” No one rightly
knew.
“Well, dear,” said Mrs. Wirra-
way, after confessing that she
missed Aminta. “He’s staying
at Government House and he
went out riding this morning
with that pretty Lady Mary, the
Governor’s niece; such a lovely
young creature, with a com-
plexion of milk and roses.
English! She rode a chestnut
cob, and wore a bottle-green
habit, trailing almost to the
ground and she had a floating
veil —yards long!”
“I never saw so handsome a
pair! They seemed perfectly
matched.” So said Miss Loveday
Boisragon.
Such was the tittle-tattle
Peronel picked up ; she spent the
price of a dozen pullets -eggs
on three-quarters of a yard ot
and drove home—deso-
late!
But she was not inconsolable,
“He exists,” she told herself.
“Nameless or not, he is a real
person—not a wraith.”
She was utterly resolved to
take her guardian angel’s advice,
She would wear at the ball the
most magnificent dress in all
New South Wales. Sin? What
is sin? It is merely an experi-
ment made in pursuit of happi-
ness. An experiment that may
or may not be a success Who
said “1 he end crowns all . Ah,
who, indeed!
_ Kol ,
N the evening ot the ban
which was to commence a
nine o’clock, Peronel dressed
herself in the nun’s-veilmg dress
and was duly
whole fam y
Marsh. n^ntifnllv
The dress ,
sewn; everyone allowed that
It was made with a plain
bodice in the hourglass shape
then fashionable. The red plush
was folded back a few inches
below the waist in the style
called a “fishergirl saque.” Be-
low this, frills fell to the instep
and lisse pleats showed below
them. (Did she have a bustle?
She did.) The neck was cut in
a modest square, much frilled,
the elbow sleeves were also frilled
and finished with red plush
bows.
Peronel’s sole “jewel” was a
bracelet plaited of her husband’s
hair. She flirted a satin fan on
which was painted a black kitten
looking out of a top hat, rumored
to be the work of Winterhalter.
A white wool cape, flowing from
neck to heel, completed her out-
fit.
Everyone saw Peronel in this
dress.
Everyone crowded to the gate
to see her drive herself off —a
bit early—in the sulky. They
watched the young mare trotting
gallantly in the middle of the
rut-holed road, the sulky swing-
ing from side to side. They saw
the elegant figure, the lovely
Peronel, sitting in the centre of
the vehicle, in order to crush
her frills as little as may be.
But they did not see the basket
under the seat.
But they did not see the
guardian angel behaving with
complete abandon as he
swooped, soared, circled, in the
sky above his charge.
He was in the highest spirits.
It was a fine night. It was
warm, yet not too warm for
dancing. The moon, free of all
cloud, beamed down from a sfar-
lit vault. There was no wind.
The mare knew the road and
required no care. Peronel was
at liberty to watch her escort.
He was in the act of sweeping
towards her while swinging up-
sky after a triple somersault
when she saw, in the brilliant
moonlight, an expression of com-
plete dismay overcloud his face.
They were being followed!
This she at once realised!
There was that on her con-
science which told her, immedi-
ately, what her follower would
be like. She had not the slight-
est doubt that his scarlet gar-
ments would be designed to hide
a forked tail and his peaked cap,
with its cock’s feather, widened,
to conceal a horned head.
Fearfully looking round, she
found that her conjecture was
right. The Foul Fiend himself
was hot on her tracks.
“How efficiently his office must
be run!” she reflected.
For a sinner, even an inex-
perienced sinner, poised on the
brink of committing a first really
walloping sin, Peronel had plenty
of pluck. Consoling herself with
a riddle (“When is a sin not a
sin?” “When it’s a peccadillo”)
she drove calmly on.
Her competent custodian,
having called to his aid several
friends who were enjoying an
evening off, soon had a white-
winged bevy circling round her.
They kept her persistent pursuer
at bay. Though athletic, musical
and good, as all their kind must
be, these angelic volunteers
came, naturally, from the lowest
strata of Heaven, being creatures
not quite good enough on the
harp, and with voices perhaps a
little off key.
"THE clop-clop, clup-clup of
1 old Ruby’s hairy hooves rang
on the steely road, being the only
sound except for the frou-frou
of angels’ wings and the twitter
of a few sleepy larks. In that
flat croppy marshland where not
a house, or a tree, punctuated
the miles, the trotting draught-
mare assumed gigantic propor-
tions ; she looked like an im-
mense chocolate animal, but-
tered, for the sweat soon
darkened her quivering flanks.
Her mane was tied with red tape
into scores of doubled-back
plaits (Donalbain’s work); her
hearty tail was also rolled up
into a blob and tied with tape.
Yet the moon shone down as if
nothing out of the way was hap-
pening when lovely Peronel, in
her white cape, a choir of angels
swooping round her, a devil
lurking in the rear, her light
vehicle swaying behind the
gigantic mare, romped through
the great gates of Government
House, Parramatta.
But why, oh, why, did she
immediately turn off the drive-
way?
But why, oh, why, did she tie
up the sulky and, dragging the
big basket behind her, disappear
into a thicket of oleanders?
The angels, naturally, turned
their backs.
T HERE was always a differ-
-1 ence of opinion at Mallow’s
Marsh Rectory as to what time
Peronel returned next morning.
Cook - Teresa said Five-
o’clock, because she was just
getting up and she always rose
at five. (She said.) Juliet said
(i Continued on next page.)
VARIOUS VERSE
GHOST-GUM.
Far, between the dark blue
depths of enclosing hills,
the spinifex like moonlight
a valley’s wide floor fills.
I come as stars appear and
the ghost-gum’s pure white
torso stands before the
galah-breasted night.
The spirit-tree’s deep hair has
rustled above its thews
and, screaming from the stars come
the white cockatoos.
They wheel, their breasts and wings
flash
as one their pristine rose,
and into the limbs of the ghost-gum
the white flock flows.
In leaves they talk and scream, then
stream out to wheel upon
the night and down the dark range
their mingled cries are gone.
Still in the leaves a magpie
in silver-toned exchanges
calls the late stars out and
the moon up from the ranges.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.
ENTR’ ACTE.
I am alone on a new page.
The spotlight’s on me. What s there
to say?
Plenty of books in the wings, focused
on stage
That blue, malignant ray
Of your critic’s eye. Extempore
I must speak, or the scene will break
Into a thousand murmurings. You’ll
Me off. The crowd will scoff. I’ll make
Another extra, dilettante, sham.
But, proved go-between, 1 am!
I have thus entertained men heretofore,
While the great artists scribbled on the
score;
Pored over detail, in their dressing
rooms;
Practised, in mirrors, monstrous gleams
and glooms.
Is it but waiting though men read me
now?
I dream they know me, not with much
to say:
But some amusement writ upon my
brow,
Creeps in my lines, holds momentary
sway.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
THE BEES.
So fierce was that crystal flame
It burned the bees in the air,
And whether they dropped down
From the mountain sun to taste
The sweet new life of the stream
Or deeper river of death.
There in the gleam of the shallows
Where bulrushes cut the noon
With sharp cool blades of water
They fell like berries of amber
And crawled on the wet sand
Or crouched, too spent to stir.
With wings outspread and still
Over their tiny shadows:
And clustering there, so many,
So strange all day at the pool,
Below the granite and dust
Where ridges bare their teeth
And towering ironbarks stand;
They stored in the cells of my mind
That strip of crowded sand
Like dark and gritty honey.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
THE LAST WORD.
John made the first point, broke bawl-
ing on the earth
One minute before George; but George
aged well
And saw the other crated up for death
While he still walked abroad. So to be-
guile
A tedious ripeness, he d savor an in-
drawn breath
Recalling the legal vanities of his
brother’s will.
That choleric Justice, or the rivalries of
their youth
That led with age to silence—and in
the meanwhile
Poor John must bear the back-bitings
of worms!
And musing thus—“poor John! ’ —he
went with friends
In sport to a seance, half-hoping to
make amends
And take that windy spirit in his arms.
Be sure the table moved, John’s voice
was heard,
“Six months on bread and water! ’ —his
final word.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
64 YEARS OF SERVICE
•TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s eood.
Write: HAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
Leave My Child
Alone!
Sex education —the teaching
of the most delicate and per-
sonal adjustments in all life
—belongs in the home, not
the classroom.
In December Readei's
Digest Ruth Hawthorne Fay,
well-known American writer
and a mother, tells why it's
tragic to teach only cold
biological facts, impossible to
satisfy individual needs in
regimented talks. This stimu-
lating article is of vital in-
terest to parents of today.
Read and enjoy December
Reader’s Digest today. 30
articles of lasting interest,
condensed from leading maga-
zines, current books. One
shilling and sixpence all
newsagents and bookstalls.
Milestones in our National Proqressf?)
df
AUSTRALIA
TODAY .
m
In wool, wheat and sugar,
dairying, fruit-growing and
general agriculture. Australia
has established itself in the
forefront of the world.
Scarcely less in importance,
our secondary Industry com-
mands a growing respect both
here and abroad.
Wide, indeed, has been the
Ronaldson - Tippett contribu-
tion to this progress. Wider
still will that contribution be
in the future.
The Ronaldson - Tippett
organisation, founded to serve
primary production and
industry generally, is com-
mitted to a policy designed to
"Advance Australia".
d
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
fd
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Melbourne Office: 628 Bourke Street.
N.S.W. Distbrs.: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett
Ltd., Frazer House, 42 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Q’land Distbrs.: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.) Pty.
Ltd., Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St.,
BRISBANE.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
TO HAROLD ROBERT BAKER late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that EDNA
WILSON BAKER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4154 of 1950 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for 3 years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 6th day of Febru-
ary 1951 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from E. G. SAYEGH,
Solicitor, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Then suddenly he has to
glare wrathfully across to the
milk-bar and make one of his
cabalistic signs.
The men walk out of the
Caroprezzo. The client looks
more hopelessly undecided and
worried than before. But the
broker has seized him by the
elbow and is shaking his arm
exultantly.
“Man! ” he exclaims, in
a tight excited voice, “are you
lucky? Beating Jo to the place
like that. And did we put his
nose out of joint? You’ll be able
to turn it over to him with a
cool thousand in your pocket,”
The client stops in his tracks ;
startled. Things like this don’t
happen to him. It is a trap. He
gives the broker a very search-
ing glance. He walks on again,
muttering to himself. He is
thinking over all that has
happened during the morning;
going over it with a very fine
comb for every significant word.
The broker walks beside him
unconcerned. He looks at his
watch several times.
Who is honest? Jo? The
broker? Neither? Both?
It goes round and round in
his head. Here is opportunity.
Here is disaster. Cafe or boots?
Boots or cafe? Jo was a farmer.
Farmers are honest. Jo has
made money. Jo can’t be honest.
And was he a farmer?
They go past the Sunlight
again. It is so obviously run-
down. It is so reassuringly run-
down. Jo specialises in build-
ing-up run-down cafes. He has
been nursing this one. Watching
it get more and more run-down.
Then he came along. It is so
obvious that the broker does not
labor it. The broker is honest;
and he is smart. He is very
smart.
At the intersection the broker
saves his client from being run-
over by a car. He takes a fleet-
ing unobserved glance at the
client’s face. He sees the begin-
ning of a greedy little smile play-
ing about his mouth. The
broker does not smile, even
secretly.
He has another appointment
at three.
“Six,” because she always woke
up at six. (She said.) The
Rector said “Seven,” because he
always went across to the church
to conduct a service of prayer
and praise at that hour. And he
xeally did. And they all heard,
at these stated times, old Ruby’s
trotting hooves rounding the
church tower, from which point
they would first have been
audible.
Peronel herself could not be
questioned, as she had dropped
at once into bed, pulling the
sheet over her face. Though
everyone trooped in to look at
her no one dared wake her to
ask how she had enjoyed the
ball.
The first gust of a coming
gale, the first hint of trouble,
came from some words let fall
by Miss Loveday Boisragon,
who, as her brother had a patient
to see in Mallow’s Marsh village,
had driven over with him; she
was anxious to congratulate Mrs.
McCree on her daughter-in-law’s
brilliant success at last night’s
ball.
Sitting with the assembled
family at morning-tea in the
drawing-room, she laid her
bouquets at their feet.
“They are all saying that
Peronel was the most beautiful
woman ever seen in that ball-
room!”
“Did she get all her dances?”
Her family had been anxious on
this score.
“Every dance! Perpetua says
that there was such a crowd
round her the whole time that ft
was hard to see whom she danced
with. His Excellency apparently
took the first three.”
Juliet, sitting in the armchair
by the window, had taken her
brother on her knee. While
listening with half an ear, she
was giving Donalbain a lesson in
the multiplication-table.
She kissed him first on the
lips.
“That is one. Twice one is
two!” She kissed him on each
cheek. “Twice two is fouti.”
She kissed him on cheeks, on
chin, on the tip of his nose.
Donalbain kissed her on the
mouth —“That is Amen.”
“The kiss to end all kisses,”
Donalbain had been warned
against women. He could not
think why. For himself he
could see nothing wrong with
them.
f T was at this point in their
' play that Juliet heard Miss
Boisragon, a little bewildered,
say, “Red plush? No one men-
tioned red plush!”
“But Mama did have red plush
on her dress. Cotton-backed
plush, for pullets’-eggs fetch so
little”
“This week all the eggs are
being pickled,” Mrs. McCree
broke in.
“Oh, I know! But it was
such cheap stuff that I helped
Mama lift the nap with a steam-
ing kettle”
“I am certain that dear
Perpetua mentioned no plush.”
Miss Boisragon rose to go.
Her brother was waiting and
must not be delayed.
“I suppose, in that crowd, Per-
petua didn’t really notice
Mama’s dress.”
The rest of the family agreed
with Juliet; they thought no
more of the matter. But that
afternoon, when Peronel was still
sleeping, Perpetua herself drove
over. It appeared that Dr.
Phantom also had to see a
patient in the village; he had
broken his rule, he had allowed
a pretty girl to drive in his smart
Hyde Park.
“Oh, my dears! Never, never
has anyone created such a sen-
sation as Peronel did last night!
All Parramatta is talking of
nothing else! Her beauty! Her
radiant happiness! It was infec-
tious! Wherever she went one
noticed there was laughter! Her
grace! In the lancers, the open-
ing quadrille, the gallopade!
There was a round dance — not a
waltz of course —but after supper
there was a perfect riot, and we
danced Sir Roger de Coverley!
I thought Lady Mary looked
down her nose at that! I hardly
dare tell you— wo ended up with
the De Alberts! ‘As if this was
a soldiers’ barrack-room!’ I
heard Lady Mary say. Of
course, early on, we had done
‘The Dashing White Sergeant’;
that’s all the rage! Peronel
danced all these dances with such
enjoyment that half the men
stood round the wall to watch
her. And then”—Perpetua put
down her empty cup—“her
dress /”
The assembled family looked
complaisant.
“Dear girl,” murmured Mrs.
McCree. “She made it herself
out of Juliet’s bridesmaid’s dress,
the nun’s-veiling one she wore at
Aminta Wirraway’s wedding.”
“And I helped her raise the
nap on the red plush”
“Nun’s-veiling? Red plush!”
Perpetua was amazed. “Peronel
wore no nun’s-veiling or red
plush! ”
“You can’t have noticed.”
“Peronel’s dress was of cream
brocade, a most exquisite Italian
brocade. I stood quite close to
her. I even fingered it.”
“Did it have elbow-length
sleeves with frills and red bows?”
“It had no sleeves.”
“But it had! We saw her! ”
“No, indeed. I was standing
quite close to her when his Ex-
cellency brought her back to the
dais after her third dance with
him. I heard him say, T used to
believe that a white camellia
looked white, dear lady, until I
saw one against your white bosom
and marble shoulders.’ And he
pressed even closer to her.
Peronel backed away and said,
so sweetly, T look better from
a distance, sir’; and she sailed
right across the room and his
Excellency dashed after her (you
know his way: he’s a descendant
of Charles the Second) but for-
tunately, at that minute, one of
the aides brought up the
Mayoress of Doggett’s Patch,
and Peronel escaped—luckily!”
“But her dress! ” Everyone
breathed.
“Marvellous! Of cream and
gold brocade with a pattern of
grapes and grape-leaves. Just
round her shoulders —which were
bare —a circlet of white camel-
lias. Oh, it was exquisite! A
full skirt like those crinolines (as
they call them) which her
Majesty has just begun to wear.
Nothing could have been more
fashionable. She made every
other woman in the room look
dowdy-—though Dr. Phantom
(who danced four dances with
her) did say, when I asked him,
that my poor little pink rag
looked just as nice on me as her
gorgeous raiment did on her!
But none of us begrudged
Peronel her triumph! It was an
honor to the whole sex! I told
Dr. Phantom we felt that.”
Perpetua chattered on in a
silence as deep as a well.
MR. McCREE had been
quieter than usual as Per-
petua rattled on. Usually he
liked the women of his house-
hold to sit in dumb adoration
round him while he told them
about the Hittites or the Jebu-
sites, or elucidated some knotty
point which may have been
troubling them in the Apocrypha,
then almost a best-seller.
But this afternoon, after listen-
ing, as it were, under protest
(these women will still be talk-
in), a glint came into his blue
eyes, an expression difficult to
fathom. It seemed as if he had
caught sight of the tail-end of a
fabulous monster just whisking
round a corner. He looked in-
credulous ; he looked horrified.
He debated within himself as
Nebuchadnezzar may have de-
bated when he saw the writing
on the wall.
Presently, with a determined
air, he rose, hoisted himself out
of his chair, and quitted the
electrified gathering, which still
argued about Peronel’s dress.
“Where could she have got
it?”
Like the Wiltshire farms that
lean up against the great house,
so narrow a margin separating
them from the drawing-room
that the music of the threshing-
flail is always in the ears, the
church had been built right up
against the Rectory. A few
paved paces, bordered with St.
Barnabas’s thistles and St. John’s
wort, brought Mr. McCree into
that fond retreat the vestry.
There was, in one corner of an
inside wall, a chest, a sort of
bureau, in which were stored the
church vestments, the one ex-
travagance for which the poor
Rector saved up all his pennies.
He opened the top drawer. To
his astonishment (he had not
expected it) the cope he wore at
festivals was there. It was a
cope of cream brocade with gold
grapes and grape-leaves, a length
from a bolt that, rumor said,
had once belonged to the Borgias.
He had bought it in Italy in his
youth. In spite of its origin, it
had behaved well —until now!
Doubts still disturbing him, the
Rector shook the gleaming fabric
reverently free of its silver-paper
wrappings.
In the bright light that
(Continued on page 32.)
(NOT) ON A GRECIAN URN.
Photographs are strangely timeless things,
Catching the moment’s glance, arresting motion.
Freezing the breaking wave and the bird’s wild wings,
The diving gannet poised above the ocean;
The smile on the dead face, forever there.
Fixed in the happy moment long passed over:
“Forever wilt thou love, and she be fair,”
Say glass and frame to the sepia-tinted lover.
Thus into clear-cut crystals, solid, bright,
The saturated solutions of memory harden.
Though the walls crack and we go down in night,
And weeds have covered all the old garden.
The little girl with the beads and the fluffy hair
And the boy with the straight-cut fringe and the sailor
collar
Smile from the shelf, a sweet immortal pair;
She does not fade, and he cannot grow taller.
“And was this I?” we ask, and gaze into
The eyes that once were ours, “this solemn stranger
In the peculiar hat?” And, "Is this you.
Who shared my whole life’s sum of joy and danger?”
There’s no return, though Time in a cardboard square
Lies prisoned in your hand. Petal by petal.
As well put back the fallen flower, as dare
Remould the past from this day’s hardened metal.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
A
Q
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
kuv mom safei
in
in lu
Cx
Z
<
CO
df
d
fd
f
df
Correspondence. lot olc«>.
statement*. etc.. filed in the
'’Sander**' can be securely
bonnd and converted into a
book of reference at
the end of each itjotb —or
any other period.
Price* ul far-
ther mlarntllM
■ P«a applied!**
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Cumtuaaf 4|t«u-
»YDN«T
MELBOUEKB
AOK&JUOS *
tstta
w C. Pcafaid A Ca. Pty. Ltd.
Mormaa Brea. Pty. Ltd.
Vtrdoa * HU Ltd.
« Oaafeat Bead Ca. (AatU
Missing Friend.
WOULD any person knowing the where-
abouts of relatives of ALFRED ARM-
STRONG MacKENZIE, formerly of Mel-
bourne, but resident in New Zealand for
the last 43 years, please contact the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Auckland,
New Zealand.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
QUEENSLAND— In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS CLAUDE HALL formerly
of 81 Kent Street New Farm Brisbane in
the State of Queensland but whose present
whereabouts are unknown. —T A K E
NOTICE that an Action lias been com-
menced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane in the State
of Queensland by Writ of Summons No.
947 of 1949 by your wife LAVINIA
CAROLINE HALL in which she claims
the dissolution of her marriage with you
and by her Petition filed herein she
alleges that on the Twenty-fourth day of
September 1946 you deserted her without
cause and have since continuously de-
serted her without cause for three years
and upwards and it has been ordered that
in lieu of personal service of the said Writ
and Petition on you this Notice be adver-
tised twice in “The Bulletin” a newspaper
published at Sydney in the State of New
South Wales in editions separated by at
least seven days and once in “The Courier-
Mail” a newspaper published at Brisbane
in the State of Queensland and that ser-
vice of such Writ and Petition shall be
deemed to have been made and be good
and valid on the expiration of Thirty days
from the last Act done under such order
If you desire to defend this Action you
must within Sixty days after the per-
formance of the last of such Acts ordered
to be done by such order enter an appear-
ance at the Registry of the said Court
and in default of your so doing the Plain-
tiff may by leave proceed in this Action
and Judgment may be given against you
in your absence. DATED this First day
of December, 1950. —P. J. RUSSELL,
Second Deputy Registrar.—‘WlLLlAM
THOMAS KING, Solicitor for the Plaintiff,
King House, Queen Street, BHsbane.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MAURICE COLIN SAXTON late of
Wellington New Zealand. —TAKE NOTICE
that EDNA MURIEL SAXTON has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 4469 of 1950 on
the ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney by the 7th March
1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from JOHN CHARLES
PAYNTER, Solicitor, of St. James Build-
ings, 107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
N. 9. Wales.—J. DOOQHAN, Registrar.
In the supreme court of new
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LESLIE AUGUSTINE GARRETT late
of Preston in the State of Victoria. —
TAKE NOTICE that LILLIAN MAY
GARRETT has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2173 of 1950 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance by
the 27th February 1951 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
E. PAUL BRANDT, ESQ., Solicitor. 850
George Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
TO NORMAN BOYD PAULEY late of
Carlton.—TAKE NOTICE that EILEEN
MAISIE GWENDOLINE PAULEY has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4289 of
1950 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you must
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 22nd February 1951 and obtain
a copv of the Petition without charge
from MR. J. H. FISHER, Solicitor, 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
• SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALEXANDRA ALFRED MacDONALD
formerly of Glebe Point. —TAKE NOTICE
that AGNES JANE MacDONALD has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 445 of 1950
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
•Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Ist March 1951 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from E. H.
TEBBUTT & SONS, Solicitors, 28 Martin
Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
ws?wpp?w^-! ! ?^!?Sy^??ESSS^S3Ss^S
stm
i
(k
o
!•. \
m
00
r
iW
*0
ii
L 7
u*
A'
S£
-\
3?
h-
'T'J -
. v*
£
a
v-
Su
V- v
V-
wperemr*,
ee/
4
TOOTH’S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
K887.M
SUNDRY SHOWS
"The Gondoliers."
From the chaff of Gilbert's
nonsense may be winnowed
much grain of mellow wisdom,
and in no Savoy opera does it
yield higher than in the droll
tale of the two gondoliers who
jointly reign, very democratically
and very temporarily, as King
of Barataria.
Gilbert had a particular liking
for digging at Socialist crack-
pots with their everybody-equal
utopias, and one of the joys of
“The Gondoliers” is the ditty
sung by the Grand Inquisitor,
Don Alhambra, about the king
of old with similar ideas who,
“wishing everyone as rich as he,
and he was rich as rich could
be,” promoted all and sundry so
that dukes, Lord Chancellors,
admirals, bishops and Opposi-
tion-Leaders were two a penny
—until “when everyone is some-
bodee, then no one’s anybody.”
That, and the other air
allotted the Grand Inquisitor,
were sung in fine robust style by
Richard Walker, who has been
one of the real strengths of the
company—of that there is no
manner of doubt, no probable
possible shadow of doubt, no
possible doubt whatever.
Ivan Menzies subtly switched
his line from the air of debili-
tated noblesse oblige, which
sorts with that seedily-apparelled,
celebrated nobleman the Duke
of Plaza Toro of the first act, to
the complacent skitfishness
evoked by the magnificent trap-
pings in which that Spanish
aristo steps out in the 2nd act.
As his formidable Duchess
Evelyn Gardiner swept by with
a fine flourish and was in much
better voice than for some time.
Muriel Howard sang brightly
and was suitably demure as
Casilda.
Leslie Rands and John
Fullard were the joint King
whose pleasure beyond measure
was running messages for
Ministers of State and similar
plebeian tasks. Rands was well
at home in the role; Fullard
seemed strangely ill at ease until
he got off his chest “Take a
Pair of Sparkling Eyes,” which
he did quite successfully. After
that he seemed to heave a sigh
of relief and entered into
the subsequent doings with
enthusiasm.
Helen Roberts and Marjorie
Eyre were the wives of the piece,
and very nice, too, vocally and
otherwise, Colin Thomas
banged a drum with elan as
Luiz, the Duke’s lowly suite, and
raised a resonant voice as the
need arose. The dressing, especi-
ally in the Palace scene, was a
blaze of splendor. The lilting
choruses —and this opera is rich
in them —by gondolieri and
r
Ar?T?sr
contadine rang out with admir-
able strength and unison. Alto-
gether a capital production.
"Message For
Margaret."
In the fashionable jargon of
the future, “To do a Sonia
Dresdel” will probably mean to
express strong emotions held in
check with difficulty, for that is
the sort of thing that Sonia
Dresdel does all the time and at
the top.
“Message for Margaret” at
Sydney Palace swarms with
disasters, they tread upon each
other’s heels, and Sonia (as
Margaret) reels back again and
again, her control wearing
thinner and thinner as the toll
mounts. Her transition from a
well - integrated, “civilised”
woman to a jealousy-maddened
would-be murderess is really a
fine bit of acting in the best
melodramatic manner, although
her sudden restoration at the
end is psychologically absurd, a
sop to a “happy ending” that
wouldn’t fool anybody.
The hackneyed theme —two
women fighting over a man’s
love —is lifted from the com-
monplace by the fact that the
man is dead, and the two women
are fascinated by one another,
like a cat and a snake, each
waiting to prove that the man’s
dying message was meant for
her.
The mistress is a clear-cut
character, played in a clear-cut
way by Ruth Lodge. John
Martin as her husband, Robert,
is too youthful and inhibited in
bearing to carry conviction —
although he does a very fair
“Sonia Dresdel” when struggling
with his emotions in the third
act. The friend Stephen (John
Robinson), whose wife is con-
veniently absent all the time,
supplies comfort and witticisms
as occasion demands in a highly
competent manner.
Old ViC. Comes Home.
From London: After being
made homeless by fire-bombs,
then finding temporary shelter
in a grimy but warm-hearted
Lancashire town and, finally,
thankful but slightly - ill -at -
ease hospitality in the West
End, the Old Vic. Company are
now back in their old home in
the Waterloo-road. There are
notable changes, both inside and
outside the theatre. The New
Cut has lost its Albert Chevalier
chumminess; stalls and barrows
are no longer to be seen after
dark, and the entire district seems
to be uninhabited.
Inside, the newly furbished audi-
torium, with its soothing greys
and deep reds, is the cosiest in
London, The stage is gracious
and simple in its serviceability.
Boxes have been removed to
provide a fore-stage that is
intimate without being self-con-
scious. A magical lighting system
based on radar devices is oper-
ated from the front of the house.
While Lilian Bayliss allowed
smoking but (Heaven forbid!)
no drinking, the order is now
reversed. Mother Old Vic. is
also a parent, with thriving off-
spring at home and at Bristol,
As a tutor she can rightly take
pride in the successes of her past
scholars, many of whom came to
her in transitory condescension
when they were no more than
promising. And now it is a
coveted honor to be invited to
join the Company!
Her influence extends far be-
yond the limits of the suburban
trains. Indeed, she is so con-
scious of this world-wide interest
that her motherly nature has
caused it to be made known
that tickets may now be booked
in the Commonwealth for so far
ahead as next summer.
The season has opened with a
remarkable production o f
“Twelfth Night”—not, perhaps,
remarkable in the best sense.
More of the natural Will and less
of producer Hugh Hunt’s im-
provements on him would have
been a fitter testimony to the
occasion ; Roger Furze’s setting
and costumes suggest not Illyria,
but a musical comedy about
smugglers and gipsies ; the corps
de ballet seems unnecessary even
when it is not tiresome. Peggy
Ashcroft’s Viola is in the classic
tradition and outshines the
other speakers of poetry, while
Roger Livesey’s Sir Toby is the
grandest we have seen.
At last the Victorian Sym-
phony Orchestra is to have a
permanent conductor Alceo
Galliera, who made a deep im-
pression on his visit under
A.B.C, auspices early in the
year. Young, strong, enormously
energetic, with the build of an
Italian opera singer, he has a
colossal musical memory and a
peculiar ability to give a singing
quality to works which you
never suspected had it in them.
He can’t speak a recognisable
word of English; but music is
an international language, and
his ability to make himself
understood when conducting is
amazing.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
As well as “Message for
Margaret,” which opened at
Sydney Palace last week,
the Royal has changed from
“Bonaventure” to “Song of
Norway,” already reviewed
on this page. J.C.W. also
have a change or two lined
up for the Empire when the
current Gilsullivan season
finishes —‘ Oklahoma” is to have
another run, to be followed by
the Piddingtons, the young Aus-
tralian couple who have been
doing very well in England with
their telepathy act. Two other
interesting items due in the New
Year are John Alden's produc-
tion of “Lear,” to follow the
current light comedy, “Before
the Party,” at the St. James Hall,
and Dr. Cardamatis’s produc-
tion of Goethe’s “Faust” —with
Allan White, Owen Weingott
and Deborah Winchcombe —for
Doris Fitton’s Independent
Theatre at North Sydney.


GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
Born 1820—
tfill going strong.
JW.1268.12
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALAN WALTER PEARSON late of
Petersham. —TAKE NOTICE that JOYCE
GRACE PEARSON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2372 of 1949 on the
ground of habitual drunkenness and
tiabitual cruelty during three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 28th February 1951 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from Messrs. A. J. McLACHLAN HOARE
& CO., Solicitors, of 6 Wynyard Street,
Sydney, Sydney Agents for MESSRS. G. P.
EVANS & ENGLERT, of West Wyalong.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
d
Midnight in Fiji—
noon in London
the BP Aviation Service gives unfailingly efficient
service. At airports around the world, including
those of Melbourne and Sydney, the BP green and
yellow symbol stands for speed and reliability. Qantas
Empire Airways and Trans-Australia Airlines are
amongst the many national airlines that are regularly
fuelled by this great service, which has behind it the
global resources and reputation of the
Anglo-lranian Oil Company, Ltd.
SERVICED
X, AVIATION
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., ALL STATES. Tel. Addresa “AIRBEPEE’MELI.
371-23-50
THE SERVICE MAN
THE WORLD IN ARMS.
“Ek Dum”: President Tru-
man’s declaration of a state of
national emergency in the United
States was quickly followed by
the freezing of Communist
Chinese and North Korean pub-
lic and private funds in U.S.
and the complete banning of all
trade with China and North
Korea.
His attitude is startlingly
divergent from that of Britain,
whose Government has the sup-
port of most of its people in
seeking to avoid war, but which
adopts ah entirely unrealistic
attitude as to the way of doing it.
Mr. Attlee said on the night
following Mr. Truman’s grim
announcement that he “believed
U.N. would be in a position be-
fore long to negotiate honor-
able terms in Korea.” It is to
be hoped that he is right, but
the specious and deliberately de-
ceptive attitude of the Chinese
Government and General Wu’s
description of the United
Nations position in Korea as a
“trap by the United States rul-
ing circles to peace-loving
people of the whole world”
shows the complete insincerity of
the Chinese stand. His insist-
ence that the Chinese in North
Korea are “volunteers” is enough
to show the measure of his
deception.
On the basis of American In-
telligence reports there is little
doubt about the nature of the
enemy in Korea. Up to a week
ago the United Nations H.Q.
had identified the 71st and 72nd
Divisions of the Chinese 24th
Army, the 77th Division of the
26th Army, the 81st Division of
the 58th Division as being in
Korea, apart from discovering
units from 21 other divisions
from the 38th, 39th, 40th, 42nd,
50th and 66th Chinese Armies.
Apart from the Korean posi-
tion, Wu’s statement to the
Press on the Formosan position
makes the chances of settlement
slim. He says that the Chinese
people are “determined to re-
cover Formosa from the clutches
of the shameless United States
aggressors.. .. we are deter-
mined to do it, and have the
strength to do it. The Govern-
ment of the United States must
bear full responsibility for all
the consequences that must
arise.” While he says that the
United States has extended its
armed aggression to Formosa
and bombing against China’s
mainland, and is extending
aggression to Eastern Asia, he
declared that the Chinese Gov-
ernment is willing to advise the
half-million or so men in the
units of the Army in or on
the borders of Korea to retire
in “certain circumstances,”
which seem to involve the with-
drawal of all U.N.O. troops
from Korea, leaving the Korean
people to settle their differences
for themselves—in other words,
leaving Russia and China a
free hand to settle them, the
U.N.O. nations leaving the
South Koreans unarmed while
the North Koreans are armed
by the Russia-China bloc.
The Chinese “peace plan” is
specious and completely insin-
cere, though at the same time
the whole world must regret that
the plunge in Korea ever had to
be taken, and will want to see
every method explored to pre-
vent a new world war. The onus,
however, is fully on the Russia-
China bloc, which both in
Europe and Asia appears to be
looking for a pretext to strike
when a suitable moment comes.
U.S. on War Basis
President Truman’s statement
makes it clear that he is mobi-
lising the country for almost
certain war, and that he expects
mobilisation of the rest of the
Western world to follow rapidly.
He placed the existing forces of
the United States, including the
National Guard and women’s
auxiliaries, at 2,500,000, of which
it can be said that only a very
small section is efficient. He
has directed the armed forces to
build up these numbers to
3.500.000 within a few months
—“as quickly as possible.”
With this expansion is to go
expansion of output to turn out
aircraft at five times the present
rate, com bat-vehicles at four
times the present rate and elec-
tronics equipment at 44 times
the present rate. Hours of work
are to be lengthened, prices and
wages relevant to defence pegged
at existing levels and a Defence
Mobilisation Organisation with
dictatorial powers of call-up and
supervision of industry has been
created under the management
of Mr. Wilson, head of Ameri-
can General Electric.
Even this can be only the
beginning. Mobilisation of
3.500.000 persons would provide,
under modern mechanised condi-
“What ceiling do these things have ?”
tions, only a very small combat
force—with 9,000,000-odd mobi-
lised for Army purposes in
World War II it was a squeeze
to build up roughly 100 divi-
sions on, or ready for, overseas
service.
Western Defence on Paper
In Europe, the crucial and im-
mediate danger-point for the
Western system, the position is
far worse than in America and
Australia, which will at least
have some time to prepare. The
Atlantic Union defence scheme
is still only on paper. Britain
is still on meagre rations, of
which the weekly meat equiva-
lent is about two lamb chops.
France is riddled with Com-
munism and Britain is split by
Socialist schemes to provide for
nationalisation of private indus-
tries such as steel, which, in the
last war, were a productive ex-
ample to the whole world, the
United States not excepted.
Metals needed generally for
defence are appallingly short.
Copper usage in the United
Kingdom will have to be cut
10 per cent, on current rate of
consumption, and the cut will be
“even greater on the rate of
normal civil consumption as the
requirements for defence pro-
gressively increase.” While steel
in general is not short, “no im-
provement in supplies of steel
sheet or tinplate can be expected
until the new plant in South
Wales comes into production late
in 1951,” and “supplies of virgin
aluminium will have to be limited
to 15,000 tons a month in 1951.”
By contrast with the vast steps
taken by President Truman to
put the United States on a fight-
able basis against an enemy
which—counting China and
Eastern European satellites —
could put 10,000,000 men into
the field as quickly as it is pos-
sible to deploy such a force in
the front line and reserve, the
British defence supplementary
estimates passed last week are
small. They provide for an in-
crease of 83,000 in the Army and
R.A.F., bringing the former to
522,000 and the latter to 243,000,
making about 950,000 in the
whole of the British forces at
home and overseas, not counting
the Dominions, which are not in
a position to provide a couple
of divisions at short notice,
France is still worse off, and
the remainder of the European
forces of the West are prob-
lematical, the position of
Western Germany being crucial,
especially since Russia has chosen
to make an issue of the rearm-
ing of that part of the country,
a proposal which the Kremlin
professes to regard as a breach
of the non-aggression treaties of
World War II vintage. It is
particularly shocked that erst-
while allies should think of em-
ploying German officers who
served under Hitler, despite the
fact that its own Eastern Ger-
man military bodies are com-
manded by Hitler’s main com-
mander in the Spanish Civil War
and that Von Paulus, of Stalin-
grad, and some of his generals
are known to be in Russian em-
ploy.
Germany and Security
The German position is one
on which the fate of the West
hangs, and on it, too, may hang
the question of war or peace.
The Russians stated in their
Notes to Britain and France over
the weekend that the Soviet
Union “would not tolerate
German rearmament,” and that
Britain and France must bear
the consequences of any attempt
to violate Russia’s will in the
matter. Coming on the same
day as General Wu’s issue of a
catalogue of what China will and
will not tolerate in the Orient,
the Note had an ominous signifi-
cance.
The stupid destruction of
the unity of Germany, leaving
a vacuum, is something for
which Western civilisation may
now pay with its life to prove
that Foch was a wiser man than
Roosevelt, who yielded to
Russia’s demands for division,
thus giving Communism a free
hand east of the Elbe and estab-
lishing a front offensive line for
Asiatic barbarism only a night’s
drive from the Ruhr. The deci-
sions of Yalta and Potsdam
went half-way to win Russia’s
war against the West.
The German Chancellor, Dr.
Adenauer, in a speech on
December 3 said that a German
contribution to Western Euro-
pean defence was necessary in
the face of the open danger of
Communist aggression, and that
in the next few weeks the
Federal Republic of West
Germany would have to
concern itself seriously with the
matter. He expressed regret
that “negotiations lasting months
had foundered because of the
dilatoriness of France, and that
the Federal Republic had still
not received any communica-
tion from the Atlantic Pact
Powers.” He declared that the
“one and only aim of Russia
was Western Germany and
Western Europe,” and he ex-
pressed concern lest the United
States should choose China
rather than Europe as a main
battleground, a choice which he
said would give her victory over
the Chinese, but leave her sadly
weakened and a prey to Russia
as the most powerful post-war
nation.
The essential basis of dis-
agreement over Germany’s in-
tegration among Western de-
fence Powers lies in the desire
of the French in particular to
have the situation both ways—to
have a Germany too weak to
turn on France yet providing
strength sufficient to turn the
scale against Russia in case of
attack by that country.
Wide-open to Attack
With this in view a scheme
has been devised under which
it is proposed that Germany
shall not be allowed a defence
Ministry, but that German
military assistance should be
based on the provision of units
recruited through the Labor De-
partment, rather than forma-
tions, German brigades or regi-
ments being the largest units.
General Guderian, the German
over-all tank commander (not a


Important Announcement
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LAND & FINANCE CO. LTD.,
SYDNEY, AND BRANCHES, and DALGETY & CO. LTD.,
MELBOURNE, AND BRANCHES.
Announce that under instructions from Messrs. F. S. FALKINER &
SONS PTY. LTD., and following: the notice in the Government Gazette
under date of Bth December, 1950, withdrawing: proclamation for
Closer Settlement, will offer by PUBLIC AUCTION at SCOTT’S
HOTEL, MELBOURNE, on FRIDAY, 2ND MARCH, 1951, at 11.30 A.M.
the well-known Riverina property:—
“MOONBRIA STATION,” JERILDERIE
IN SUBDIVISION
HOMESTEAD BLOCK Approx
EUROKA PADDOCK
ADJOINING BLOCK C
YANKO CREEK FRONTAGE
YANKO CREEK FRONTAGE „
Full details vAU appear in later advertisements.
Agents Note; 20% of total commission on sale of respective blocks at N.S.W.
Rates will be paid to Agents introducing successful buyers in writing and
arranging inspections prior to the sale.
For further details or arrangements to inspect contact: —
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LAND & FINANCE CO. LTD.,
(Incorporated in England in 1863)
SYDNEY, AND BRANCHES
DALGETY & CO. LTD.—MELBOURNE AND BRANCHES
(Incorporated in England)
(Agents in conjunction)
NOTE: Surplus Station plant, furniture and fittings will be offered for sale
at Auction on “Moonbria” Station at a date to be announced following the
sale of the isM Watch for full details in later advertisements.
11,607 acres
6,626 acres
8,055 acres
11,076 acres
9,148 acres
BLOCK C.
BLOCK D.
BLOCK E.
BLOCK G.
BLOCK H.
No more need io worry
... our affairs
are in safe hands
fd
“My husband's father named Burns Philp Trust
Company as his executor, and we’ve found the Company
prompt, considerate and wonderfully efficient.”
You can save your beneficiaries endless anxiety by
taking a similar step. If you are unable to call and
see a senior trust officer, please write for the interesting
booklet, ♦‘Hands That Never Leave the Wheel.”
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, F.F.I.A,
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR TRUSTEE ATTORNEY
7 Bridge Street, Sydney
Telephone: BU 5901 Box 543. G.P.0., Sydney
BPI2A-50
///
/
r
m
Hm
m.
f
df
d
Refrigerators, Cookers,
Washing Machines, Mixers
Australia Chose . . .
. . . the English Electric Canberra Bomber {the
world's first and finest jet bomber) to equip
the expanding Royal Australian Air Force.
Australians Choose . . .
. . . the English Electric RITEMP domestic
appliances (built for lasting service) to equip
their homes.
THE ENGLISH ELECTRIC COMPANY LIMITED
[lncorporated in England]
51 PITT STREET. SYDNEY • TELEPHONE BU2OM
Nazi), probably the ablest
soldier in continental Europe to-
day and certainly the most ex-
perienced both in the use of
armor in Western Europe and in
Russian methods, has com-
plained that the policy of the
Western Allies is based not so
much on defence as on pro-
vision to ward off pursuit, and
this is the general view being ex-
pressed in Germany.
The “Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung,” one of the leading
German newspapers, last week
remarked that only the Allies
could dispose of the suspicion
that Germany was not “really
to be defended, and that our
regiments are only to be used
to cover the retreat of others to
the Channel ports.”
At present Western Germany
is wide-open to attack and
without indigenous air defence,
a fact of which its peoples are
supremely conscious after their
experience in World War 11.
The impression to be gained
from Russian and Peking broad-
casts is that a two-front war is
planned—a decoy war in China
on the Korean and Formosan
pretexts to bring a major United
States force to grips there and
to concentrate Western Allied
shipping and resources 10,000
miles from a main theatre which
would develop in Europe so soon
as the Allies were committed in
China.
Then, the Russians would de-
vote the whole of their attention
to Europe, Africa and the Asian
oilfields and trade - routes
through the Mediterranean,
causing the West to abandon
operations in Asia. The Russian
bloc would isolate Asia from
European allies, and bring Japan
and India and Indonesia into
the Communist bloc, a United
Nations evacuation of Asia
being obviously a basis for com-
plete American loss of face in
the East.
The conference of the Atlantic
Powers, attended by Messrs.
Acheson and Bevin in Brussels
on December 18, was certainly
faced with harder problems
than any posed since 1941, and
upon its decisions the fate of the
world may hang.
Stalemate in Korea.
“Ek Dum”: There has been a
certain amount of blowing hot
and cold about the Korean War.
On December 13 it was an-
nounced that enormous Chinese
forces had gathered like an
avalanche and were about to
strike. The next day it was
represented that U.N.O. intelli-
gence officers did not know how
far the Chinese had advanced or
how many of them there were.
It seems that there is a very
definite difference of opinion
between the British brigade
command and the Americans
over the advisability of the
retreat. It was reported late in
the week that the British are
very sceptical about the sup-
posed huge numbers of Mao’s
forces, which some of them de-
scribe as his “ghost army,” since
limited contacts in bad snow
weather made it almost impos-
sible to gauge the enemy
strength.
In the western sector, having
abandoned Pyongyang with
huge quantities of material,
some of which the British rear-
guard salvaged, the American
Eighth Army command claimed
not to have been in contact with
the Chinese for 15 days before
December 14, and indeed the
only fighting which seems to
have taken place during the
week preceding that date was
with North Koreans, of which
General MacArthur’s h.q. said
that there existed 10 or 12
salvaged divisions, a figure in
which it is very hard to believe
unless the ranks are well seeded
with Chinese.
The position before the
hprried retreat from the north
began after the Americans had
started to roll northwards to
“finish the war before
Christmas” was somewhat as
follows; In the west the
American First Cavalry, 2nd,
24th, 25th infantry divisions and
four South Korean divisions
were taking part in the advance,
while on the eastern sector in
the narrow part of North Korea
between the Sea of Japan and
the Manchurian border elements
of one U.S. Division were actu-
ally at the border. The Ist
Marine Division and the 41st
Independent Commando, Royal
Marines, were around Chosin
reservoir not far from the
border ; a South Korean division
was far away out on a limb
200 miles n.-e. of Chosin. All
these forces and the rest of the
U.S. X Corps were hurriedly put
on the move when the wedge
50 miles wide was driven into
the joint of their lines with the
Eighth Army on the west. They
were and are supposedly faced
by several Chinese divisions, and
the whole of the operations in
the corps area have been
directed to evacuation by sea
through Hamhung, which has
been carried out under the
supervision of a joint naval force
whose flagship has been wear-
ing the flag of Rear-Admiral
Andrewes, R.N., who is due to
go home shortly, and to be re-
placed by Rear-Admiral Scott-
Moncrieff.
At the weekend in this sec-
tor the enemy had renewed his
offensive, and captured Ham-
hung, but had failed to over-run
the emptying Allied beachhead
of Hangnam despite huge losses
among the seemingly illimitable
attack force. On the west there
were signs that the Chinese
attack would soon be renewed.
More than one contact with his
advance-guards had been made.
The Allied line guarding
Seoul should be a strong one
capable of holding back con-
siderable enemy forces, in view
of the light armament of the
enemy, his slow types of trans-
port, the weather, the superior
Allied air-power and the ad-
vantage of command of the sea.
The Allied forces defences in
west and east total 160,000
and with the shortening of
the lines consolidation might be
possible, which should put a
different complexion on the
whole situation if leadership is
determined. British Common-
wealth forces are becoming sub-
stantial. They consist now of
the 27th Brigade, which should
have been withdrawn on the
arrival of the 29th Brigade, but
which has been kept to meet
the new situation. This consists
of battalions of the Argylls and
Sutherlands, the Middlesex and
the Australian Royals. The 29th
Brigade Group, which was
specially fitted out for the job,
contains the Bth Hussars,
Northumberland Fusiliers, the
Gloucester and the Royal
Ulster Rifles, To these the
Canadians and Maorilanders
will soon be added.
No casualty-lists covering the
period of the Chinese offensive
have yet been issued, but up to
the beginning of it the Ameri-
cans had had over 30,000, in-
cluding 5000-odd killed. The
casualties of the British Brigade,
including the Australians, to
November 29 were in the region
of 300, of whom about 90 were
killed.
The military correspondent of
a Sunday journal explains to any
potential enemy, external or in-
ternal, exactly the location of
the depot of the Royal Army
Ordnance Corps—that “branch
that puts the Army on wheels
and keeps it supplied with fire-
power and means of communica-
tion ... . one of the most carefully
guarded places in Australia out-
side the Rocket Range, because
few things are as secret as a
nation’s defence equipment
potential.” The depot, he says,
is stuffed with “millions of tons”
of the sinews of war. He ex-
plains in some detail how the
material is stored, its extent and
range of Usefulness, the fact that
it holds the filing system on the
detail of defence equipment, no
matter where located in Aus-
tralia. And he announces that
the R.A.A.O.C. is preparing to
outfit a powerful army by World
War II standards . . working at
top pressure bringing equip-
ment up to fighting efficiency.
A lot of other information of
the same type has been dit -
buted free gratis. Stalin y
have many things against e
Australian Government an
Press, but he can never accuse
them or not telling him every-
hmg his fifth-column should
know before the clamping-down
of a war-time censorship


A Group of Experts to Manage
fd
YOUR ESTATE
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman,
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., VD.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M., F.R.A.CJS,
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager & Secretary: S. U. White.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
rr.rr.iw
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
PLUCKED TROJAN DOVE.
London “News Chronicle”
editorially makes the seasonal
offering of plucked Trojan dove,
or, less figuratively, marshals the
evidence shattering the Russian
pose of injured innocent:
“Although no one has
threatened her territory, Russia
has kept since the war the
largest armed forces in the
world. She has made proposals
for conventional disarmament,
but they have been such that if
they were carried out she would
still be left with a great pre-
ponderance of military might
mobilised and ready.
“She has worked like a beaver
to achieve a ban on the atom-
bomb. That is the one weapon
in which she has not already
got superior strength. It is the
one weapon which annihilates
the protection she has hitherto
derived from the vast distances
which her territory encom-
passes. For these reasons her
motives are suspect.
“Russia and men trained in
Russia have, since the war,
sponsored political change by
violence in at least nine coun-
tries in Europe and three in
South-East Asia. She has given
support to aggressors in Korea.
“It is true that the democra-
cies are rearming now. But it is
equally true to anyone who reads
with an unprejudiced eye that
they are doing so slowly, re-
luctantly and only under the
goad of fear which is inspired by
Russian armed strength and
aggressive tendencies.
“When the war was over
Britain and America disarmed.
That is a fact of history. It is
true within our own knowledge
and experience. These two great
countries and others of like
mind placed their faith in
U.N.0., which it was hoped
would be at once the symbol
and the forum of world co-
operation.
“It is Russia who has kept the
sword unsheathed. It is she who
has sought and found profit in
violence. Not until Korea did
the free nations strike back, and
it is only since Korea that they
have begun to stir and mobilise
their strength.
“We who live in the West
know this to be true from the
pattern of our daily lives, which
has not been militaristic. Surely
this knowledge should be enough
to pluck the finest feathers from
the Trojan dove?”
On the same theme a
member of the House of
Commons, John Baker White,
formerly of the British Foreign
Office Political Intelligence De-
partment, has done some investi-
gating into the real nature of
the “peace congress” which was
shifted from Sheffield to War-
saw, and in London “Daily
Mail” has given “the inside
story” of what he insists the
whole thing was—a “cold-war
plot that failed.”
The “angriest men in Mos-
cow,” he declared, would be
Malenkov and Beria, who
planned that definite “cold-war”
operation. To them, he said, the
genuine “peace-lovers” and such-
like dupes, who could have been
counted on to turn up at Shef-
field in droves, were to have
been a screen behind which the
real purposes could safely be
carried out —“not merely to give
the Trojan dove of a Communist
peace an airing or to put over a
propaganda coup but to hold a
giant sand-table exercise to in-
struct the key Communists of
Britain and Western Europe in
how to carry out the 1951 cold-
war offensive.”
It was also, he insisted, to be
an opportunity for the M.V.D.
J ~V r •'t.v
MRLO war"
Richmond ( U.S.A. ) “News Leader.”
OVER THE BRINK ?
(the Soviet secret police) to give
a thorough screening to the
Communists of Britain and Wes-
ter u Europe, and to watch the
behavior of their comrades
f rom behind the Iron Curtain
! n a . stronghold of “Fascist-
imperialism.”
“Let the peace-lovers talk in
public as they pleased. The real
business of Malenkov, Beria and
their minority would be carried
out elsewhere”—actually a whole
senes of Cominform instruction
courses.
Officials from the Red offices
m Paris were to be leading
Peace delegates. Experts from
Prague, now the West-European
bureau of the Cominform and
of the M.V.D., were to give
instructions on future tactics to
British fifth-columnists. At least
50 members of the Soviet secret
police were to be there to do
their screening job.
The plans included the or-
ganisation of a wave of strikes
and demonstrations in Western
Europe; intensification of work
inside the democratic armed
forces and among youth; the
launching of a carefully planned
sabotage campaign ; the prepara-
tion of a special “interruption-
strike” plan for Britain’s docks
and defence plants.
In this investigator’s finding,
the Sheffield congress was to be
used as the “innocent cover” for
all that. But British “public
opinion, plus Mr. Chuter Ede
[Home Secretary], plus efficient
security services” threw the
whole plot out of gear, turning
“a major cold-war move” into a
rout; at which, incidentally, all
Britain with a sense of humor
has been laughing ever since.
War Optimists.
A few sample quotes from the
British Press just before the
Chinese Communists took their
Moscow marching orders and
invaded Korea:
“Daily Express.” —“The les-
son [of Korea] is plain. Russia
is afraid of war.”
“News Chronicle” staff corres-
pondent.—“ Let’s stop talking
about the imminent danger of
another world war. The Korean
crisis has again aroused our
anxiety, but before we get too
depressed about the presence of
Chinese troops south of the Yalu
River let us remember that
events in Korea have done one
very important thing—they have
shown clearly that the Russians,
like ourselves, don’t want a war
—at least, not a war in which
they themselves are involved.”
“Times” report. — “A group of
the Royal Institute of Inter-
national Affairs has been study-
ing the problems of winning the
struggle against aggressive world
Communism, and has concluded
that, because of economic and
social conditions in the Soviet
Union, it is a major aim of the
Russian Government to avoid
war against the present combina-
tion of Western Powers for the
next few years.”
“ Observer " —“Russia’s policy
of expansion is one of unscrupu-
lous and relentless opportunism,
She will try to expand her
domination wherever possible
and by every means—subversion,
as in Czechoslovakia; instiga-
tion of civil war, as in Greece ;
aggression by proxy, as in
Korea; aggression by prior
arrangement, as in Poland, the
Baltic States, and Finland, in
1939 —but she is not, not yet at
any rate, prepared to stake her
whole existence on an all-out
war for the sake of mere expan-
sion.”
Resurgent Europe.
“A fresh wind of strength and
assurance is blowing in Europe.”
Explaining this optimistic
finding, “Washington Post”
board chairman Eugene Meyer
lists three factors which, on a
recent visit to Europe, led him
“to sense a growing power and
will to defend the peace and
build for the future”:
1. —The “force and momen-
tum” of the Schuman plan
“aimed at nothing less than
wrenching the course of Western
European history 180 degrees
around from generations of
hostility to a new day of co-
operation.”
2. —The united goal of re-
armament and consolidation of
armed forces to prevent war,
“wherein the issues presenting
serious problems appear to be no
greater than the areas of agree-
ment already attained.”
3. —The resurging vitality of
France, “a key nation in these
endeavors.”
A “P eare Office.”
Supporting a suggestion that
there should be, not only a War
Office, but a Peace Office also, a
London “Times” letter-writer
makes out a case for genuine (as
distinct from Communist
phony) opposition to war:
“Now, on the threshold of
another war, can we not display
that faith in democracy which
alone can counter Communism?
May we not put forward the
arguments in favor of peace
without being labelled fellow-
travellers, and if war comes, the
arguments in favor of stopping
it without being clapped in jail?
“Fox opposed Pitt in the days
when democracy was practised
by an oligarchy. Now, alas, we
live in an oligarchy run by so-
called democrats. No political
act, in peace or war, is entitled
to stand alone on its merits
without the acid test of opposi-
tion. Let us, therefore, have a
Peace Office, or at least an
opposition both in peace and
war.
“We can safely leave the de-
fence of the country to the ser-
vices armed to the teeth by all
means, because they have never
let us down. But let us leave the
ultimate political decisions to
the electors, because the poli-
ticians have invariably let us
down.”
U.N.O., But Neutral.
It having been given out by
Swedish Foreign Minister Unden
that if war starts Sweden will
remain neutral, London “Daily
Express” expects others to fol-
low suit:
“Sweden is a member of the
United Nations, pledged to re-
sist aggression like all the rest.
How can she park her responsi-
bilities in this way?
“Simply. She concludes that
any attempt by the Security
Council to take action unwel-
come to Russia will be vetoed.
And the veto automatically ex-
cuses her and any other signa-
tory to the charter from doing
anything further.
“What Sweden declares in ad-
vance other nations will eagerly
imitate when the time comes.
Therefore, let no man put his
trust in the windy word-battles
of Lake Success,”
Ejected Turks.
Satellite Bulgaria’s insistence
that its Turkish minority of
about a quarter of a million
must be accepted by Turkey in
a body has been described by
London “Time and Tide”
as “a characteristic piece of
Communist cunning that mas-
querades as magnanimity.”
The “Turks” involved, who
are being forced over the border,
were settled in Bulgaria more
than a hundred years ago by the
Sultans. They have caused no
trouble. What Bulgaria reckons
on gaining is thus summarised:
1. By getting rid of a quarter
of a million people, mostly
peasants and farmers, and ac-
quiring their land and their
goods, it acquires assets with
which it can reward or bribe
people of its own selection. It
can, in this way, create a large
dependent and “reliable” com-
munity within the thoroughly
discontented population (the
Communist despotism is de-
tested by the Bulgarian peasantry
as a whole).
2. A severe blow is struck at
the Turkish economy. The
Turkish budget is overburdened
by the needs of defence, and
there is no land to spare. To
accommodate a quarter of a
million destitute men, women
and children will involve the
Turkish State in many difficul-
ties and a heavy expenditure.
3. The Turkish minority has,
on the whole, shown itself to
be tenaciously conservative. But
it has been worked upon by
the Communists, and certainly


FRENCH
IGORN CUREI
Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
lAnthony Horderns*
Nu-metal
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL ■will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slqp and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6. 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 20/12/’5O
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY,
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250
relief from
CHOKING ASTHMA
Dr. Hair’s English Asthma
and Bronchitis medicine has
helped thousands of sufferers
to escape the agonies of
Asthma, Bronchitis, Catarrh
and Hay Fever. You, too, can
be free of those frequent
bouts of wheezing, coughing
and fighting for breath. Get
this famous English treat-
ment from your chemist or
write direct to George Ripley
& Co. Pty. Ltd., 228 Pitt
Street, Sydney. ha. 13
Dr. Hairs
n ENGLISH
ASTHMA MEDICINE
r\
I
\
\
/* /•
I
‘I think I'd like
a White Horse
better than anything’
Ik
f
WHITE HORSE SCOTCH WHISKY
WHX7A
contains a large number of per-
sons who will, when the time
comes, engage in subversive work
on Turkish soil.
Mao.
London “Daily Mail’s”
veteran correspondent G. Ward
Price has been observing the
high-spots of the world scene
long enough to at least know a
Com. from an “agrarian re-
former,” which camouflage of
Mao Tse-tung took in so many
of Price’s smart juniors.
It’s further to the credit of
Price that he wrote the follow-
ing comments before the Korea
invasion:
“It is conviction rather than
subordination that keeps Mao
close to Moscow. He is an ally,
not a satellite. But he accepts
the Communist creed, and his
regime is animated by the same
aggressive spirit as Soviet Russia
towards the rest of the world.
Some recognised experts in Far
Eastern affairs regard Chinese
Communism as a greater menace
than the Russian brand.
“Overtures from the West —
like the British Government’s
recognition of the Chinese Com-
munist Government —Mao treats
with contempt.
“That heavy hand of his could
well destroy the fragile structure
of world peace that the United
Nations have been painfully
striving to build for the past
five years.”
Truman “Code.”
Some further light on the
character and principles of a
man about whom these days it’s
as well to know as much as pos-
sible —i.e., Harry S. Truman —is
cast by a Washington corres-
pondent of N. Y. “Herald Tri-
bune” in an article which pur-
ports to give the inner story of
the appointing of General Mar-
shall as U.S. Defence Secretary.
According to the writer the
President’s loyalty to his
subordinates is so fanatical that
the fact that the then holder of
the Defence post, Johnson, had
given him disastrously bad ad-
vice carried no weight with him.
'Heneeßswp L
m Uhr M
fd
New York “Herald Tribune.”
“YOU WERE SAYING...?”
“Mere stupidity, however tragic
its consequences, does not con-
stitute an infringement of the
Truman code.” But Truman
finally became convinced that
Johnson had violated that code
in two ways.
In the first place, the Presi-
dent received overwhelming evi-
dence, from sources which he
trusted, of the truth of the re-
ports that Johnson was under-
cutting Secretary of State Ache-
son in order to protect himself.
In the second place, Truman
also received evidence that after
the Korean outbreak Johnson
had privately preached the in-
evitability of general war, and
had been hinting broadly at pre-
ventive war.
The first point angered Tru-
man, whose code demands
loyalty returned for loyalty
given. But the second point
equally infuriated him, for,
rightly or wrongly, Truman “still
sincerely believes that general
war can be avoided, and sin-
cerely abominates preventive-
war talk.”
West’s Double Task.
In a London “Times” letter
Professor Gilbert Murray recalls
a British Communist straight
from Moscow some years back
saying to him: “You have really
no chance. Either you will try
to rearm on a scale adequate to
deter Russia, and so collapse
into starvation and revolution ;
or else you will not rearm, and
then we shall simply walk over
you.”
On which Gilbert Murray
comments: “Gallantly, I would
almost say heroically, in the
face of world-wide malicious
sabotage, the mass of the United
Nations, under United States
leadership, are trying to meet
both these dangers; trying, by
the Atlantic Pact, not to be
‘walked over’; trying, by
U.N.R.R.A., Marshall aid, the
World Health Organisation, the
Food and Agriculture Organisa-
tion and Mr. Truman’s Fourth
Point, to avert the threat of
starvation and revolution. The
double task may be almost be-
yond our strength, but neither
side of it can be forgotten if
peace is to be saved.”
Dragnet Digest.
Genesis, Amended. A London
“Daily Telegraph” correspondent
hears of one that’s doing the rounds
in the Soviet German zone; “The
first Soviet citizens were Adam and
Eve. They had no clothes and not
much to eat, and they lived in
Paradise.”
Churchill in the Gills. —What, in
London “Daily Mail” diagnosis,
“sticks in the gills of the Socialists •
“Churchill, even in Opposition, is
still the real leader of this country,
and they know it.”
» * * *
Potential President. New York
“Herald Tribune” takes a deep look
into the crystal: “Sen. Robert A.
Taft is now about as good a bet tor
the Republican Presidential nomina-
tion in 1952 as any man can ( be
almost two years before the event.
* * * *
Eat in Yugoslavia, and Pay. —
“Manchester Guardian” letter-writer
just back from Tito’s domain: “Your
readers may not be aware that the
rate of exchange is 140 dinars to the
pound sterling. It will not encourage
would-be travellers to know that the
cheapest possible meal costs at least
150 dinars.”
All Right for Yugos.— The already-
quoted “Manchester Guardian” letter-
writer, by way of illustrating “the
Yugoslav desire to be thought better
fed than they really are,” recalls a
meal in Dubrovnik: “The waiter
brought breakfast. We ate it — coffee,
black bread and tasteless jam. Within
a moment the manager of the hotel
ran up to our table, apologised sin-
cerely that we had been given the
breakfast for Yugoslavs, and ordered
the waiter to bring the ‘foreigners’ ’
breakfast. Within ten minutes, or
not very much longer, our second
breakfast arrived —cocoa, white bread
and honey.”
* * * *
Joe Delivers to John. —As reported
by a London correspondent of “New
York Times,” Britain this year will
probably have got between $75,000,000
and $85,000,000 worth of grain and
timber from the Soviet Union. Deli-
veries under the Anglo-Soviet grain
agreement for 1,000,000 tons are right
up to schedule. Also: “The British
believe that their experience with
Poland shows the possible advan-
tages of longer-term agreements for
East-West trade. Poland has de-
veloped her whole bacon industry to
supply the British market. This, the
British feel, would not have been
done on a basis of short-term agree-
ment.”
* ♦ * *
Piecework Results. —As reported
by London “News Chronicle,” an
outfit calling itself the Boot and Shoe
Research Association, looking into
Leicester shoe factories, has found
that workers who are paid on piece
rates produce nearly twice as many
shoes as those who are paid by the
day. Earnings, £6 Is. 3d. a week
average on time; £8 ss. Bd. on piece-
work. The researchers noted, too,
that piecework does not mean forcing
the pace or scamping the work. The
paper’s comment: “The lesson is
simple and worth learning. Piece-
work cannot apply everywhere in
industry, but it could be introduced
into many jobs where it does not yet
operate.”
* * * *
Miscellaneous U.S. Votings. —As
well as for Congressmen, U.S. voters
at their last elections had their say
on a host of side issues. A few
culled from “New York Times”:
Proposals to legalise gambling and
put it under State control lost in
California and Arizona; a State-
lottery plan was beaten in Massa-
chusetts and so was a proposal to
legalise slot-machines in Montana.
Anti-alcohol drives lost everywhere:
in Arkansas, a ban on the manufac-
ture or sale of liquor or possession
of more than a quart of it; in
Arizona, local option to prohibit
liquor sales; in Oregon, restraints on
liquor advertising; in South Dakota,
a ban on serving food and liquor m
the same place. Rhode Island ana
Utah granted full citizenship privi-
leges to Indians.
* * * ♦
Corns’ “Prestige” Declines. —London
“Economist” has noted as the two
possible explanations of the whisking-
away to Moscow of French Com-
munist leader Thorez that either the
French Communist party expected to
act in the near future in such a way
that it would be driven underground,
and so could not cope with a sick
leader, or, more likely, the Kremlin
feared that, in his weakened state,
Thorez might have transferred his
support to the recalcitrant “Tjtoist”
and dangerously nationalist section of
the party. It commented: “The
Kremlin’s fears are a reflection of
the decline which has lately taken
place in the prestige of Communism
in France. The party is now reported
to number only 700,000 members,
compared with over a million soon
after the war, and to be seriously
divided into pro- and anti-Soviet
factions.” Even so, they still sound
like a fair sort of a fifth-column.
* * * *
Oil Breaking Records. —As recorded
by London “Financial Times,” the
world oil industry is now well among
the record-breakers. Total world pro-
duction has been raised above ten
million barrels per day for the first
time. Also for the first time the
Eastern Hemisphere as a whole is
producing as much oil as it is con-
suming.
* * * *
“Containment” Prescription. —Con-
tending that where Russia “encounters
determined resistance, backed by real
power, she is ready to admit defeat
and withdraw,” London “Observer”
has commented: “This means that
she can probably be contained, with-
out war, if we are prepared to pay
the price of containment, which is
threefold. It consists, first, of
Atlantic unity, preparedness and
eternal vigilance; secondly, deter-
mined resistance to every Communist
act of force anywhere; and thirdly,
progressive policies of economic
development and of national and
racial emancipation throughout Asia
and Africa.” Evidently one item in
the price—“resistance to every Com-
munist act of force anywhere”—is
not altogether viewed with enthusiasm
by official Britain and Europe when
the “act” is in the East.


The comfort of
large car ..
I
li
99.
THE JAVELIN COSTS LESS TO DRIVE
d
Acceleration 0.60 in
22.2 secs.
Horizontally opposed
Flat-four 50 b.h.p.
Engine.
Torsion Bar Suspen-
sion.
Steel Body.
Enjoy large-car comfort and riding
qualities all on the cost of running
a light car. Fuel consumption
is only 35 miles on a gallon
at a steady 35 m.p.h. yet there
is ample elbow-room, knee-room
and head-room for up to six
passengers and luggage.
Powered with a 50 B.H.P, four-
cylinder engine the Javelin has
no rival in its class for speed,
acceleration, and road ability.
Once tried you’ll say ‘Pd rather
go by Javelin!’
★ Made in Bradford. England, by JOWETT CARS LIMITED
COMMONWEALTH DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. and A.C.T.: Bradford Oars Pty. Ltd., 218 New South Head Rd., Edgecliff
Phone: FB 3100.
Victoria; Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., 149-155 Lonsdale St., Melbourne, 0.1.
Phone: JM 1494.
Queensland: Redman Motors, 46-54 Edward St., Brisbane.
South Aust.: British Engineering Appliances Ltd., 430 King William St., Adelaide.
Western Aust.: Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., 722 Wellington St., Perth.
Tasmania: Donald Gorringe Pty. Ltd., 72 Argyle St., Hobart.
THE L\ LITRE
JOWETT
i
J
J
t&fae a good wfce/r Jf/pata&j yetc
or an
SF
A******
V#*
m
mm
Cosfillea
sm
Made in Australia for The General Electric Co. Ltd. of England.
iffiufaA&£*t&la£'
(Sole Australian Representatives of
The General Electric Co. Ltd. of England)
fd
SYDNEY . . . NEWCASTLE . . . MELBOURNE , . . HOBART
LAUNCESTON . . . ADELAIDE . . . BRISBANE . . . TOWNSVILLE
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Overseas visitors invariably ad-
versely criticise our city streets.”
—Sydney “D.T:”
We are always picking holes
in them ourselves.
,*h *i*
In a girl’s life this is the one time
she can let her head go on fabulous
underclothes.”— Women s magazine.
Seizing the flimsiest pretexts
for buying.
, (T *h,
Intermediate exam, in jail for 15
prisoners.”— Melbourne “Herald.”
And they hope eventually to
get their leaving certificates.
Acc., husband, wife, child will do
light duties, have own cooking
appliance.”— Melbourne “Age.”
Kid steaks.
“Wright is certain to be a menace
to our batsmen again, more especially
when a reliable supporting cats is
moulded round him.”
—Brisbane “Courier-Mail.”
Which is the sort of statement
that gets their backs up.
“If their hands hadn’t been so
continually occupied they would have
rung them.” —Short story.
Evidently hard work was tak-
ing its toll.
“Young married couple looking
for accommodation, half-house, will
add kitchen and bathroom.”
—Suburban paper.
But will they refrain from
multiplying?
4* + ■s'
Not Up to Date.
“The really important thing in a
girl’s life is how to meet men. Yet
the colleges do practically nothing
about it.”
—Headmistress Dorothy Osborne.
What should the modern girl be
taught
To fit her for her job in life
And make of her the perfect sort
Of mother, citizen and wife ?
Should we conservatively seek
To teach her maths and botany
Or modern languages and Greek
Eked out by cold philosophy ?
Or should we emphasise instead
The economics of today,
Or, going further, fdl her head
With nothing else but thoughts
of play ?
Take my advice, let's scrap the
lot;
To meet a man is all the rage —
Our antiquated schools have not
Yet reached the introductory
stage !
D.H.E.
Another Wife Learning to
Drive.
I have a friend who is teach-
ing his wife to drive. In the
face of a lot of advice he con-
tinues to defy a very old axiom.
In Gallic Wars, IV, at a period
when the 7th Legion was home
on leave, Antony patted Caesar
on the back as they gazed at the
general’s new chariot and
whispered, “Don’t try and teach
her to drive, old man. Like all
wives, by her husband, she is
beyond tuition.” This has been
widely mistranslated.
My friend, not normally a
stubborn man, was once in the
Navy instructing in gunnery for
some time. That is the main
platform in his argument.
“If I could teach raw recruits
to become completely familiar
with such a complicated
mechanism as a gun-turret, then
surely I can teach my own wife
to drive a car.”
Vainly we have told him that
that is just the point. He may
very well teach a complete
stranger to drive, but his “own
wife” is a different question
altogether.
A gun-turret, after all, is fairly
indestructible. It has no clutch
for a feminine shoe to slip from
accidentally and cause the
crown-wheel to be ground to
dust; nor is it likely that a gun-
turret can, from a standing start,
move off in a manner that road-
side oafs ascribe to “kangaroo
petrol.” Again, it is a simple
matter, if a matelot glares back
and says, “Don’t you dare swear
at me like that!” to clap him in
irons and stop his rum ration.
Yesterday my friend came up
and told me that he had given
his wife Lesson Five —he plans
thirty altogether, spread over a
month or so.
In Lesson One, as I remember,
he sat on the other seat and told
his wife about first gear, how to
find it, how to move the car off,
and how to stop again. That is
his scheme. Cover a little bit
at a time. Remember, it’s all
strange to the pupil.
He has gone as far as betting
me beer that at the end of his
course the little lady will gain
her licence —and I hope she does
“ I had to get up extra early to get this one.”
—but the deck is stacked my
way, for part of the bet was
that he will work the oracle
without ever raising his voice.
If he can look me honestly
straight in the eye after his
Lesson Seven (Backing) and not
put up any story like “Well, it
was only so that I could be heard
over the engine,” then I will
count the ale as good as lost.
Women in general do not like to
drive a car backwards; they
will admit themselves that it con-
fuses them.
They are the same at the tiller
of a rowing-boat. When they
want the boat to veer left they
will pull the tiller to the left.
They are built that way.
So, based on personal experi-
ence only, this is what I think
night happen when my friend
starts out on Lesson Seven:
“Now I want you to concentrate.”
“Yes, dear.”
“Remember when we talked about
the gears and I told you how the
three different-sized toothed wheels
when applied to another toothed
wheel whose size remained constant
gave us different speeds and powers?”
“Yes.”
“Well, there’s another toothed
wheel which goes the other way. It
gives you reverse.”
“That’s in the gear-box with the
other wheels?”
“Exactly. Now to engage reverse
;eai you move the gear-lever over
rere —over here —you move it . . .
myway, it’ll work when the engine’s
'omg.
“Now, having engaged the gear,
/ou turn round on the seat and look
out through the back window. Just
ihift my golf-bag over —there. Well,
then you drive the car just as you
would forwards, only you go back-
wards.”
“Do I still have to count ten before
1 change up into second?”
“No I No, dear. There is only
me reverse gear. If you put the
;ar into second, a forward gear, it
:an only go forward.”
“I see,”
“Are you sure? Please, are you
sure?”
“Only one backwards gear.”
“All right. Now then, move over
and start the car , . . Check neutral!
Always remember neutral.”
“I’m very sorry.”
“It’s quite all right. We all forget
sometimes. Can you hear a funny
rattle in the transmission? Just my
golf-sticks? Good. Have you found
reverse? You have? Swing round
and look out the rear window.
G-e-n-t-l-y ease off the clutch. Now
you are driving in reverse.”
“Am I going straight?”
“Straight as a die. That old
licence’ll be child’s-play. Now there’s
a crossroads up there. Bring her
round into the right-hand street. No.
The other way. Never mind. We’ll
come to another crossroads.”
“Why did it do that?”
“What, turn that way?”
“Yes, it shouldn’t have. I steered
the other way. I suppose I’ve broken
the steering-wheel now.”
On that ominous note I leave
him; he’ll be there explaining
half the night, anyway.
In the list of planned lessons
my friend drafted out for me
there were one or two super-
fluous items. Lesson Twenty-
eight, 1 recall, was on changing
a tyre.
If you or I strike a nail we
may be sure that the job of jack-
ing the car up, removing and re-
placing the wheel will be per-
formed without any interruption
save sad stares from passing
drivers.
Let an attractive young lady
get a flat and what happens. She
has barely pulled up when male
drivers, some with their wives
and families in their cars, are
halting, begging her to let them
help. How often have we seen
her standing there immaculate,
while men slaved, became
covered in grease, and did it
gladly.
I told my friend that if his
wife learns to stand with a screw-
driver in her hand, looking piti-
fully and helplessly at the car
(and I think it’s instinctive) then
he can wipe his Lesson Twenty-
eight—also Twenty-nine and
Thirty, which deal with engine
troubles.
A lot of men have started to
teach their wives to drive. You
can pick them easily if you look
sat the flooring of the car in
front of the seat next to the
driver’s. It will be found to
have a noticeable dent in it
where the husband has been
applying his phantom brakes.
After a period of depression
these men will suddenly turn up
looking quite bright, tell you that
they’ve got hold of a professional
instructor at a pound a lesson.
And they say this without a
tremor of remorse. They will
often add, with a vast, happy
sigh, “on hii car, too! ”
As my friend explains his
slow-but-sure scheme to me it
might work out. 1 hope it does ;
that he does not come in one
morning and murmur “We had a
little slip last lesson. They tell
me that if they can weld the
gear-box it ought to be all right
for New Year.”
Beer or no, I hope he is suc-
cessful. It will make him unique
among husbands.
COL. M.
The New Order.
“A Scottish migrant has criticised
Australian shopkeepers for being
rude, inattentive and taking the atti-
tude that the customer is always
wrong.”
Once, in the dear, dead days
beyond recall,
A customer was prized, however
small
His needs, and urbane, eager
vendors vied
To win his trade and keep him
satisfied:
Reverse the order now that you
may see
How base a thing a customer
can be ;
Poor wretch! He knows his
hideous charge-sheet will
Not be expunged before he pays
his bill.
JEAN STANGER.


-MO
U 31138 MMOM
- V
m
BE
CHAMPION
f
WOMDS
FAvmm
J
TRADE
MARK
FACTORIES: FELTHAM, ENG.;
TOLEDO, U.S.A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
CINZANO
SWCIT OR DRY
jdvrtce
- If/6
dfd
a
r\
m
M
7
m
y
When the perfection of the setting
calls for something of
real character and unquestionable
distinction, you will find
the appropriate cigarette hears
the name of Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London in
keeping with the occasion
when only the best will do•
f
In
tins of 20
3/-
6Y APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
MIS MAJESTY THE KIN*
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREETLONDON
w«io
d
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Racing at Rosehill on Saturday
threw no fresh light on Villiers pros-
pects, but an effortless victory in the
12-furlongs Christmas Cup established
Yeoval as undisputed favorite for
the Summer Cup.
It was Yeoval’s first test against
open company, and, while the said
company was a bit on the feeble side,
Yeoval passed with flying colors. On
the strength of his three successive
wins in restricted company Yeoval
started a warm favorite for the Christ-
mas Cup, and at no stage did any-
thing to affect his supporters’ blood-
pressure. Taking matters quietly,
Sellwood gradually worked Yeoval
into a nice position on the rails
within the first few furlongs; there-
after he had the run of the race. In
the straight Yeoval gathered in the
leaders without effort, and strolled
on to win by four lengths from Cap-
tain Roddy and Revenue.
Yeoval has burst suddenly, and
certainly impressively, upon the Syd-
ney racing scene. Now a four-year-
old, he won his first race, a 7-furlongs
Mixed Stakes at Rosehill, only as
far back as September this year.
Then followed, in succession, a 10-
furlongs Novice at Randwick, another
7-furlongs Mixed at Rosehill and
Saturday’s Christmas Cup. Last year
the Christmas Cup was won by Snow-
stream, who went on to win the
Summer Cup, and mayhaps Yeoval
can duplicate that performance.
With Carbine blood on both sides
of his pedigree Yeoval is well-bred to
stay. His dam, Spear Lily, is by
Spearhead by Spearmint by Carbine.
As well, Spearfoot, the dam of Yeo-
val’s sire Bourbon, was a daughter
of Spearhead. In Saturday’s race
Yeoval carried 8.1. For the Summer
Cup he drops to a luxurious 7.3.
A number of Villiers candidates
contested the Flying Handicap, but,
over the short journey, the very
speedy Ajax mare Pantomime (R.
Binder) simply ran them off their
feet. Following recent failures Panto-
mime was not greatly fancied, and
started at 16 to 1, but a 71b. allow-
ance for apprentice R. Binder reduced
her weight to a handy 7.8, and from
when she hit the front half-a-mile
from home the others scarcely saw
which way she headed. The New-
castle galloper Warrah King, who
started a heavily-backed favorite,
finished on moderately for second
money, followed by New Look.
Pantomime clocked 1.17 i, a course
record for the fairly-recently-adopted
journey of furlongs.
The S.T.C. is never done introduc-
ing new varieties of restricted and
special-weight events. The let
loose for the first time on Saturday,
was the Australasian Mixed Stakes
(7if.) for “three-year-olds and up-
wards sired by horses foaled in Aus-
tralia or New Zealand.” While this
innovation can do no particular harm,
it really doesn’t seem to serve any
useful purpose. Good locally-bred
sires make quite a fair fist of holding
their own with importations, and
aren’t in need of such patronising
encouragement. And there certainly
shouldn’t be any encouraging of the
over-prevalent practice of breeding
from horses which, either on the
score of blood or of performances,
have nothing remotely resembling
adequate qualifications for stud
opportunities. As a matter of interest,
the only three unrestricted open-
company events on Saturday’s pro-
gramme the Flying Handicap,
Christmas Cup and the Welter—
were each won by the progeny of
Australian-bred sires, and in the two
main events the runners-up also were
in that category.
Howsoever, the winner of the Aus-
tralasian Mixed was Lady Shuna (J.
Eaves), a four-year-old mare by Beau
Port. Second was Opulent by Beau
Son, who, like Beau Port, is a son
of Beau Pere. Other events gave
punters a mixed deal. Old Hava
Chat (J. O’Sullivan) chalked up his
annual win with a comfortable vic-
tory in the Welter (9f.). On the other
hand Fresteem (N. McGrowdie), after
countless attempts and disappoint-
ments, finally won his first race when
he scraped home ahead of Prince
Felix in the Auburn Mixed (lOf.);
it might be profitable to follow
Fresteem now that he has broken the
ice. As well. Double Dutch (W.
Cook) took the Parramatta Mixed
(7|f.); New Zealand bred Volonel
(J. Thompson), having his first out-
ing, walked away with the two-year-
old for colts and geldings; and Sun-
shine Express (A. Ward) had a simi-
larly easy victory in the two-year-old
fillies’ event.
* * * *
It is difficult to go beyond the
recent performances of Hesdin and
Yeoval in looking for the winners of
the Villiers and Summer Cup double.
Neither has put a foot wrong, Hesdin
winning three in a row and Yeoval
four on end; .they should start respec-
tive favorites, and they deserve to
be so regarded. However, looking
for something to toss the hotpots,
Freedom and Persist constitute a
double of considerable appeal. The
fly in the ointment is that Persist’s
mission is not certain; she could
give either leg a severe shaking.
♦ * * ♦
There was little doubt as to what
was the best performance noted at
Moonee Valley on Saturday. Romp-
ing home ahead of Dark Marne and
Saturn in the mile Strathmore Handi-
cap, Weka (R. Hutchinson) was the
easiest winner sighted, outside of
jumping events, in months. It was an
exceptionally impressive performance
for a three-year-old filly. Weka, who
started a solid favorite at 11 to 4,
gave her backers a nasty moment
when she was squeezed out and lost
quite a bit of ground at the start.
However, her rider, R. Hutchinson,
soon had her going, and fortunately
found a fairly smooth passage through
on the inside. Weka had reached the
front at the turn, and, in the short
run home, cleared out to win by
seven lengths. Although beaten so
easily, Dark Marne made up a
tremendous amount of ground to
finish second after being earlier a
bad last; with the Port Adelaide Cup
in mind, it was a fair trial.
In connection with the Strathmore
Handicap owner O. R. Porter badly
singed his digits, as he has done
several times before, when his un-
doubtedly good but somewhat fickle
performer Chatspa turned in one of
his poorer efforts. However, other
events supplied Porter with a double
issue of heart-balm. Prince o’ Fairies
(R. Hutchinson) and Scotwyn (W.
Williamson), both carrying the Porter
purple, pink diamond and cap, won,
respectively, the Bulla Handicap
(13f.) and the second Fawkner Handi-
cap (6f.). Prince o’ Fairies, who has
been more than earning his oats of
late, started favorite at 9 to 4, and
scraped home by the merest breath
from sccondrfavorite Erriton, with
Henley third. Scotwyn’s victory was
both more profitable and easier on
the nerves. Like Prince o’ Fairies
a son of St. Magnus, Scotwyn, despite
constant backing, started at 8 to 1;
he won by a length from Trentside.
As well as St. Magnus, imported
Hellespont was credited with a win-
ning double on Saturday. Weka was
one leg of Hellespont’s pair. The
other was Just Jane (W. Williamson),
who took the mile Somerton Handi-
cap for three-year-olds. Both carry-
ing 71b. penalties and consequently
topweights with 9st. apiece against
the 8.7 of other runners. Tulaking
(P. Ryan) won the Moreland Stakes
for two-year-old fillies and Bahadur
(J. Purtell) the Glenbervie Plate for
colts and geldings.
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) :
December Nursery: Reel, 1; Fourth
Dimension, 2; Widgee Lass, 3.
Three-year-old: Stelvio, 1; Constant
Spear, 2; Seasonal, 3. December
Juvenile; Volonel, 1; Solrex, 2;
Smuggler’s Hoard, 3. Novice: Bank-
stream, 1; Double Sea, 2; Benefit, 3.
Villiers: Freedom, 1; Denali, 2;
Hesdin, 3. December Handicap:
Dona Marcheta, 1; Air Flare, 2;
“I want ten-bob each Way on Bachelor's Choice."
Fair Recruit, 3. Welter: Uranium, 1;
Double Strength, 2; Erpingham, 3.
Second Day:
Summer Nursery : Reel, 1; Volonel,
2; Bush wind, 3. Mersey Stakes:
Even Flow, 1; Stelvio, 2; Joy Star, 3.
Chisholm Handicap: Heliofly, 1;
Acquittal, 2; Penmore, 3. Trial
Stakes: Final Act, 1; Prince Felix,
2; School Belle, 3. Summer Cup:
Persist, 1; Yeoval, 2; Fair Recruit, 3.
A.J.C. Handicap: Veiled Art, 1;
Erpingham, 2; Bold Archer, 3.
* * * *
The Australian selectors last week
named their 12 players for the second
Test, which kicks off in Melbourne
on Friday. They were the same dozen
as chosen for the first Test, with the
exception that Moroney was replaced
by J. Burke. Without any disparage-
ment of Burke, it is really difficult to
understand this move. There may
have been reason to criticise
Moroney’s selection for the first Test,
but if selectors did think him worthy
of a place in that team he should be
worthy of a fair trial before being
dropped. And none could suggest
that the freakish first Test, which saw
batsmen of both sides fail almost
without exception, constituted any-
thing approaching a fair trial.
The only other criticism of the
second-Test selections is regarding
their being made and announced
before the playing of the M.C.C. v.
an Australian XI match which com-
menced in Sydney on Friday. It
would surely add greatly to the
interest of spectators and to the
keenness of players if there was a
suggestion that Test selection hinged
upon performances in the earlier
match. As it was, the only such
element was provided by the question
of whether the newcomer Burke or
the young Queenslander Archer, who
had been 12th man in the first Test,
would qualify to fill the opening-
batsman position vacated by Moroney.
The Australian XI batted first in
the match v. M.C.C., and the first
innings really didn’t answer the
question regarding Burke and Archer,
for both shaped extremely well.
Archer opened with Morris, and had
a safely- and soundly-compiled 81 to
his credit when he was bowled by
Hollies; Morris tossed away his
wicket after scoring an even 100. In
an innings which carried from the
first into the second day of the
match, Burke knocked up 128; how-
ever, while Burke achieved a higher
tally than Archer he did not seem
quite so confident or so safe.
At the end of the first day’s play
Australia had been three for 309. By
stumps on Saturday, in sorry con-
trast, M.C.C. was three for 47, Aus-
tralia having declared eventually at
nine for 526.
* * * *
Played in bright sporting spirit, the
Sheffield Shield match Queensland v.
Victoria was an interesting game
throughout, and resulted eventually in
Victoria winning by seven wickets
and four runs, Batting first, Queens-
land declared at nine for 270. Vic-
toria responded with 322, Queensland
came back with 307, and Victoria
was then left with 195 minutes in
which to score the necessary 256.
Tackling the job in the right spirit,
they did it with 20 minutes to spare.
* * * *
Announced last week, the United
States Lawn Tennis Association’s list
of rankings for 1950 leads one to
wonder if we were not a shade lucky
to bag the Davis Cup. The first three
ranked players, in order, are Larsen
(at present touring Australia), Herbert
Flam and Budge Patty, none of whom
was in the Davis Cup team.
Schroeder, who was No. 1 singles
player in the Cup team, is ranked only
4th, and the other Cup singles player,
Brown, 10th.
* * * *
Eric Cremin, who went down to
Norman Von Nida in the Australian
pro. golf championships, took his
revenge in the N.S.W. championship,
winning 5 up and 3 after playing
unbeatable golf. The pair met at
Royal Sydney after having eliminated
all other contenders. The title rounds
off a pretty successful year for
Cremin, though it is the first time he
has beaten Von Nida in match-play
since before the war.
* * * ♦
Ray Coleman (9.24) seemed to be
the victim of a poor decision when
his winning run was halted by one
Sigi Tennenbaum (9.3) at Leichhardt.
Tennenbaum, who claims to be a
former featherweight champion of
Switzerland, was on the retreat a
good deal of the match. Coleman
attacked continually, and outscored
his opponent repeatedly. However,
with his fists flying all the time (often
open-handers), Tennenbaum at least
kept Coleman busy, and did succeed
in scoring a no-count knockdown in
the 11th round. At the end Coleman
was completely unmarked, while
Tennenbaum sported a badly-cut
eyebrow and other marks of the fray.
The ref. gave it to Tennenbaum on
points, and the crowd proceeded to
voice its disagreement in the approved
Leichhardt fashion.


f
Be a
Quirk's
Perfect Cook
wtth «
Electric Mixer
You'll wonder how you ever managed with exhausting hand
beating, once you've mixed with a Quirk's Electric Mixer.
In a few fleeting ticks of the clock your cakes will be ready
to pop into the oven, and what delicious, feather-light cakes
they'll be. Here are two famous Quirk's Mixers.
w
■
Quirk's All-Purpose Electric
Mixer mashes, whips or beatSi
stirs, folds or creams . .
turns out a perfect job in fast
time. A special juice extractor
which is attached to the mixer
squeezes the juice of fruits.
Equipped with powerful high-
speed motor, governor con-
trolled, providing power at all
10 speeds. Matching plastic
bowls are supplied. ■ Available
in 32, 50, 110 and 240 volt
models.
Here's a low priced model fo suit all
your mixing needs. This modern electric
mixer has a special plastic enamel finish
and a powerful motor which operates at
three speeds, low, medium and high.
Sold with two attractive bowls of which
the small one can be used as a kitchen
measure, being graduated in ounces and
cups.
df
The following appliances, for cify and country homes, are
available from Quirk's Stocks: Lighting Fixtures, Radios, Vacuum
Cleaners, Floor Polishers, Washing Machines, Fans, Kettles,
Toasters and Irons.
CONTACT YOUR LOCAL DEALER FOR SUPPLIES OR WRITE TO:
QUIRK’S VICTORY LIGHT CO.
* 229 Castlereagh St., Sydney . . . Phone M 3114
✓
W//>
PM/H&it'
until summer is nearly over 9
and swelter day and night
INSULATE
your home ISOW with
B.I.SLAGWOOL
No house, hone, office or building Is modern m ' rl entirely
healthy unless It Is insulated preferably with BJ,
SLAG WOOL.
Visulation
d
f
TELEPHONES: SYDNEY, MA9311 • MELBOURNE, MU3506
BRISBANE, 83604 • ADELAIDE, C 7257 • PERTH, L 2107
On the Peninsula.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“Oxo”: With provision of
adequate watering facilities, both
on properties and stock-routes,
graziers on Cape York Penin-
sula envisage selling their cattle
as two-year-olds and developing
the breeding side of their in-
dustry. It was not possible to
consider such a programme prior
to the establishment of cattle
sales at Mareeba, as the only
buyers for cattle were northern
graziers, who, with inadequate
holding facilities, required bul-
locks only and rejected younger
cattle.
At least three additional
watering-places are essential on
the Mareeba-Laura stock-route,
and W. H. Gostelow, of Kalinga
station, suggests that these
should be at Maitland Downs
(where a range has to be climbed
and there is no water at the top),
another at Nobby’s and the third
at Kelly St. George.
With these travelling stock
would still be without water for
two days, but at present they
could be without it for five or
six days. There is generally
sufficient rain in summer to pro-
vide water for droving until
r -rly in July, and with the addi-
tional watering-places proposed
it should be possible to drove
cattle throughout the year-—-
water, not feed, being the prob-
lem.
Living costs are high on the
Peninsula. Two 44gal. drums
of petrol cost Gostelow
£l3/13/2, and if the drums are
not returned another £5 is added.
It paid him better to buy the
old Maytown post-office and
transport the timber 103 miles
than to buy new timber for a
home on his property, which is
50 miles from his father’s Violet
Vale station. With the opening
of saleyards at Mareeba the op-
portunity has been taken to
form a branch of the Graziers’
Association there, and with one
already operating in the Penin-
sula (it has agitated successfully
for a cattle-dip at Laura capable
of handling 1500 head), more
may be heard in f uture of the
cattle industry’s needs in .that
part of Australia.
Victorian Wheat.
“Carlyle”: Apropos the fear
that the Victorian rail strike
(now settled) will hold up wheat
shipments, it is now several
months since growers pointed
out that present elevators were
designed to hold only half an
average season’s crop, the re-
mainder to be trucked away by
the Railways Department during
harvest. But increased farm
mechanisation and consequent
speeding-up of the harvest, as
well as slow turn-around of rail-
way trucks, had prevented this
and caused congestion before
the strike.
Regrading of the line to Port-
land for wheat-carrying was.
suggested as one means of reliev-
ing present rail bottlenecks at
Williamstown and Geelong.
Construction of a roadside
silo in the central Wimmera w?s
sought by growers in that area,
who contended that 200 farms
distant from the railhead (aver-
age annual yield 1,200,000
bushels) would benefit from this
type, which —being independent
of the rail —would allow the
harvest to be transported to the
seaboard via road and rail when
the seasonal rush had abated.
This was told to a Parlia-
mentary Public Works Commit-
tee, but nothing more has been
heard of it.
Oats in the Mallee.
“Myrrhee”: For early winter-
feed to be ready by the end of
June sow Mulga in March or
early April immediately follow-
ing the first autumn break. It’s
a tall-growing oat, matures early
and does well also in southern
Victoria, where it’s widely used
as cut green-feed for dairy
cattle.
For later grazing Orient and
Algerian will provide heavy
grazing in August and early
September. It then can be left
to recover for hay or grain. In
a good season both will produce
up to 15cwt. of hay to the acre
if stock are taken off by the
first week in September. Sow
on stubble land at 601 b. to the
acre drilled in with 301 b. of
super, and 301 b. of sulphate of
ammonia.
Poultry-feeding.
“A-Jay”; Poultry - feeding
tests at Parafield, South Aus-
tralia, during 1949-50 gave re-
sults from which these conclu-
sions may be drawn:
Fifty per cent, green-feed, as
is normal practice in the standard
ration, gave superior results to
the use of only 25 per cent,
green-feed.
Standard dry-mash feeding did
not give as many eggs as for wet-
mash, and in view of the greater
quantities of foodstuffs eaten the
net return was approximately
ss, less than for standard wet-
mash.
The use of oats gave excellent
results both as wet- and dry-
mash, and, if the price of oats
becomes comparable with the
"It's about time you stopped being social and got
back into production, Beautiful !”
usual mash ingredients, oats can
be used to a much greater extent
than has been the case.
Condition of the birds on the
50 per cent, oats rations showed
that oats have a very beneficial
effect upon feathering, this being
an outstanding feature.
Laying of the birds on dry-
mash with 50 per cent, oats was
superior to those on standard
dry-mash. This indicates the
need for coarse ingredients in a
dry-mash.
The necessity for use of first-
grade wheat for poultry-feeding
was also demonstrated.
Hydatids.
“Coul”; Where dogs become
infested with hydatid tapeworm
treat with arecoline hydro-
bromide, made up in half-grain,
grain and two-grain tablets. The
dose lecommended by the Vic.
Public Health Department for
dogs weighing approx. 501 b. is
one grain ; from 251 b. to 301 b.,
half-grain, and for smaller
breeds one-quarter grain is suffi-
cient.
The dose may be dissolved in
a tablespoon of water and given
as a drench, or as a drink when
dissolved in the same quantity of
milk. Dissolve only the amount
required, as it loses efficiency
when kept standing in water.
The night before dosing, give the
dog a light feed t then give dose
next morning without food or
drink. Keep the dog tied up
next day and collect and burn all
excreta.
It is a good policy to treat dogs
with arecoline hydrobromide
every few months on properties
where hydatid cysts are found
continually in sheep.
Concrete Tree-surgery.
“Whit”: Decaying holes in old
trees can be remedied by filling
them with concrete. Clean out
all rotten wood, getting rid of
the smallest particles with a
stiff wire brush, and wash out
with a solution of 2oz. of copper
sulphate in sgal. of water.
Faint the inside of the hole
with hot tar to serve as an ex-
pansion point for the concrete,
trim back for about any
green bark around the edges and
knock five or six nails in on the
inside as a grip.
The mix should be one-to-
three cement and sand. If the
hole is a large one, throw in a
little small aggregate and use
some small reinforcement such
as wire-netting. Pack the con-
crete into the hole, moulding it
to the shape of the tree and
finish about |in. below the level
of the outside bark so that it is
easy to grow over.
If the concrete will not sit, a
piece of tin may be tacked across
the hole to hold it while it sets,
but it should be removed as soon
as possible. Keep the mend
covered for about a week with a
piece of wet hessian.
Queensland Weeds.
“Weedexp”: The cactus Har-
risia has assumed pest propor-
tions, and where it appears the
best treatment is to spray large
clumps with arsenic pentoxide
three or four times and then
grub out the regrowth and
saturate the roots with the same
chemical. In experiments
thickly - scattered infestations
have taken four years to clear
and cost £lO per acre. The plant
possesses a deep constricted tap-
root which makes mechanical
control impossible; the bright-
red fruit, containing from 150
to 250 small black seeds, is
readily eaten by birds and hence
distributed to new localities. It
is estimated that 18,000 acres at
Collinsville (Q.) will cost
£125,000 to clear.
Hormones are no good for the
long-spined Datura ferox, which
is vepr troublesome in the Dalby
district. It grows in cultivations,
along edges of black-soil roads,
around waterholes and where
the soil has been disturbed ; it is
not a pest of pastures. The plant
is most noxious in summer
crops, but early and late wheat
crops may become badly in-
fested. Analysis has revealed
the presence of Mydriatic alka-
loids, which make it highly toxic
to animals. Hormone sprays at
six times normal strength have
had no effect beyond slight de-
foliation of even very young
plants. However, arsenic pent-
oxide at the rate of 11b. to Igal.
of water has given complete
control. The related Datura
stramonium (B. 15/ 11/’5O) is
more susceptible to hormones.
Humus.
“W. Court”: Keeping plenty
of humus in the soil is harder in
heavy-rainfall areas than in
others (B. 25/l/’5O). Running
water soon washes humus away,
whereas in dry districts the sun
soon destroys it.
Yellowing of crops is not
caused by lack of humus, but
by lack of nitrogen. It is fre-
quently seen in growing sugar-
cane during the early summer,
but the crops promptly green up
following a dressing of sulphate
of ammonia. This fertiliser is
highly expensive at present since
it has to come from the U.S.S.R
Nut-trees.
“Sarina”: Bauple, Pecan and
lychee-nut trees are all suited by
the Queensland climate. All like
a good rainfall and rich soil, but
the pecan will grow in cold as
well as warm climates.
They are beautiful shade-
and shelter-trees and are age-
less. Grafted pecan-nuts should
be planted ; they will start bear-
ing within six years. A good
nurseryman will send a list of
recommended types if asked, but
three good varieties are Success,
Pabst and Oklahoma.
Clear a patch of coastal scrub
for best results with the Queens-
land nut; it prefers deep, mould-
filled soils. However, it will
grow quite well on sandy loam
near a creek. The Queensland
nut is identical with the bauple-
or bopple-nut, and Thin Shelled
is the variety to plant.
The lychee-nut can stand any
amount of heat, but it needs
plenty of rain. It will bear ex-
tremely heavy crops of big, red-
dish nuts on the scrub loams of
the north coast. The seed has
a white material surrounding it,
which is also eaten.


w
I’m proud
of my
auioq
Aladdin makes city comforts
easily available for country
homes. Decide now to
"Aladdin-ise" your home with
these efficient, easy-to-use
Aladdin products.
GOOD
LIGHTING
Immediate,
bright,
steady 75
e.p. light without
pumping. No
smoke or fumes!
Aladdin Lamps
add beauty as
well as comfort—
and are the
simplest of all
lamps to operate.
Have an Aladdin
non-pressure
df
kerosene mantle lamp in every
room full range is now
available.
GOOD COOKING
d
All the convenience
of a gas or electric
stove! The Aladdin
pressure - kerosene
elevated oven
range has 5 burners, adjustable
to any heat required. Ideal tor
pressure cooking. Oven cooks
to perfection. Simple and safe
to operate.
f
PORTABLE 2-BURNER
For home or general outdoor use,
this pressure-kerosene stove gives
ready heat where it's needed.
Flame is adjustable to any heat;
metal carrying case (optional)
serves as windshield for outdoor
cooking.
d
STORMPROOF
LANTERN
Floods a large
area with brilliant
light. 300 candle
power pressure-
kerosene lantern
is built for years
of rugged service.
Adjustable down
or side reflectors available.
There are authorised Aladdin dis-
tributors In all cities, suburbs and
country towns throughout the
Commonwealth,
Ala^m
KEROSENE APPLIANCES
ALADDIN INDUSTRIES Pty.Ltd.
BOURKE SL WATERLOO N S.W
63/141.12
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes and Eyelidr
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A.Bose&.CeJtyXtt.Ktofl St. Sydney
Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
fd
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
Price includes tax.
£l3/18/6.
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses,
f
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
d
earns
'Phenoyis" Worm Remedy
sefi OVIS
ching time i $
time
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
/<//
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
f
df
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-8191
Cut Irrigation costs —and work —by one third
RAINBOW SPRAY IRRIGATION
WITH
ALUMINIUM
SPRAY SECTIONS
I
So light a child can carry a 24ft. section with ease.
POWERFUL SPRAY HEADS
Throw a fine spray
over an area 48 ft.
square, or a heavy
spray op io 72 ft.
square.
Only half fhe weight of
ordinary piping. Rainbow's
Aluminium sections save
your precious time and
labour. Rustless, seamless,
the 24ft. sections may be
used for all water pur-
poses and are supplied
with flexible couplings and
non-flexibie underground
{oins.
FLEXIBLE COUPLINGS GIVE
BENDS OF BETTER THAN 25 s
J
Worked in a ball
and socket principle,
the Rainbow coup-
ling is easy to con-
nect and disconnect,
. provides a positive,
watertight joint in
any direction better
than 25°.
COMBINED OUTLET
AND HYDRANT
Costs the same as ordi-
nary outlet, but does
the work of hydrant as
well! Simple to operate,
this practical unit gives
trouble-free operation,
reduces obstruction in
outlet and main.
fd
STURDY ANGLE IRON
STANDS
Two welded stands support
each 24-ft. section. Absence
of crossbars in tall stands
eliminates Interference to
growing vegetation.
d f
RAINBOW SPRAY IRRIGATION
Head Office: 83 Riff Street, Sydney. 'Phone BU 3425.
Branch Offices: C. Jones, Griffith; C. Beaumont, Mildura; C. Beaumont,
64 King Street, Melbourne.
Distributors: Waugh & Josephson Pty. Ltd., 102-124 Melbourne Street,
South Brisbane; Ralph Curry, 24 Light Square, Adelaide; F. C. Korwill,
68 Hobbs Avenue, Nedlands, Perth.
60/83.11
Picking a Honey Site.
“Soc”: Site-choosing for the
next honey-flow varies with the
season of the year, accessibility
and some other factors generally
overlooked by the harassed
stand-hunter. For wintering
look for warm, sheltered spots
with the nectar-yielding trees a
stone’s - throw away; or for
sand country which keeps
warmer and reflects the heat
better.
Face the hives to the north
and move the brood cluster to
the “warm” side of the box. If
working Caley’s or Stringy on
granite country make sure you
can get out as easily as you got
in. More than a few apiarists
got bogged in the “spewy”
granite country after heavy win-
ter rains. When the time is good
and honey is coming in fast look
for a flat area for the extracting-
van and a slight slope for the
loaded barrowman. And always
watch for the old destroyers,
flood and fire.
Wheat in Brigalow.
“Mac Fergus”: Brigalow and
melon-holey country west of
Dalby (Q.) has proved itself a
high-class wheat-producer this
season, one of the most unfavor-
able experienced for years.
Densely covered with prickly-
pear at one time, this country is
now highly productive; up to
16 bags per acre were taken off
this season.
Puno, Puora and Flocol
varieties gave the best results as
regards quality. Where melon-
holes were levelled by scooping-
in the outer edges the crops
were consistently even in yield
and quality. Where levelling
did not apply yield and quality
suffered to the extent of up to
50 per cent. Much of this
country, bought at 2s. 6d. an
acre, is farmed by the original
selectors. Land of this type
brought £l9 an acre at a recent
sale in the Brigalow district.
Care with Arsenic.
“W. Court”: Vessels that
have contained arsenic solutions
should be kept under cover, for
stock, especially horses, will lick
up the salty stuff. Avoid using
arsenic solutions in damp
weather, since the moistness of
one’s hands leads to its being
absorbed by the skin. Burning
of the skin is a sure sign that
the poison has penetrated some
cut.
Fatal poisoning can result
from arsenic taken up through
the skin. Recently 1800 head of
sheep near Chinchilla (Q.) died
after being dipped during rainy
weather. The sheep didn’t dry
out, and the arsenic worked into
their systems through the skin.
According to Queensland
Agricultural Department,
drenching with hypo, (thiosul-
phate of soda) is unlikely to
cure arsenic poisoning if the
poison was absorbed through
the skin. Most effective treat-
ment in such cases is to spray
the beasts with a llb.-to-the-
gallon hypo, solution.
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”: Don’t use fresh
manure for parsnips, but select
ground heavily manured for a
previous crop. Equal parts of
bonedust and super are helpful
if fertiliser is required. Sow
thickly to ensure a good strike,
as roots can later be thinned out,
as desired. Fine leaf-mould
makes a good covering for the
seed but should be kept moist
until seed germinates. The crop
may be left in the open ground
if it is necessary to dig before
all can be used.
“Bill C”: F. A. Flohr, an
Isaacs River (C.Q.) grazier, has
beaten the hot, wet climate by
growing good crops of wheat
and oats. His cultivated area is
between 40 and 50 acres, and he
has already put down 250 bags
of harvested grain in silos for
use as stock fodder. The wheat
grew 4ft. high and the oats sft.,
and quality of the grain is com-
parable with that of Downs-
grown stuff.
“My”: In Victoria the best
time to sow root vegetables is
November-December. This sow-
ing will provide usable roots
from late January, and they will
store in the ground until August.
A friable soil suits carrots best,
so if the ground is any way heavy
dig in plenty of compost or old
manure —fresh manure makes
the roots fork. Fertilise with
super, at loz. per yard of row
placed in double bands. In
poorer soils use a mixture made
up of super, sulphate of ammonia
and potash as 5-1-1.
“InvereU”: The best way to
prevent coccidiosis in chickens is
to keep them growing steadily ;
any check to their growth is
dangerous. Cleanliness is most
important; the disease is spread
through the soiling of food by
droppings. If an outbreak occurs
sulphamezathine should be used
in the drinking water.
“C.A.A.”: An efficient foot-
bath at the entrance to the cow-
yard helps to keep the yard
clean. When the floors of shed
and yard are thoroughly wetted
before each milking the task of
washing-down and cleaning after
milking is reduced to a mini-
mum.
“C.W.”: When putting a ball-
tap over a drinking-trough be
sure to place a guard over the
ball, such as a piece of tin or
wire-netting, to save damage to
the ball.
“Old Crab”: Surface-mulch-
ing in the orchard not only re-
duces soil and water losses and
replenishes soil organic matter
but saves a man a lot of work
in controlling the weed pest.


w
m
VS
1
-
v\m
<m
X$
hb
i
ICI
Rabbits in their countless millions con-
stitute one of Australia’s most destructive
pests. Good grazing land can be rapidly
turned into barren acreage if these pests
are uncontrolled. Land-owners and sports-
men may make every day’s shooting more
than worthwhile by helping to reduce the
numbers of these vermin.
Eley-Kynoch shotgun cartridges are hard-
hitting and 100% reliable.
fd d
TM#
ELET-KYNOCH Shotgun CARTRIDGES
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA —In Divorce.
Number 64 of 1950.
TO DUDLEY ALFRED HOOPER formerly
of Upper Burnie in Tasmania. —TAKE
NOTICE that a Petition has been filed in
this Court endorsed with a Notice to you
to appear and answer the charges in the
Petition of FRANCES MAY HOOPER of
Mooreville Road Burnie in Tasmania pray-
ing for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion In default of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said Petition proved and
pronounce judgment in respect thereto
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for
five purposes aforesaid within, Thirty
days after the date of the last advertise-
ment of this Notice an appearance must
be entered at the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania, Macquarie Street,
Hobart.—J. R. REX, Principal Registrar.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
O’SUUJVAtf
gv mUD
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd,
Incorporating-
Watson, Ferguson & Cow
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AMD AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
HITLERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AMS
COUNSELLORS ! ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMMTT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•jACKSUL," BRISBANE
streamed in through the Gothic
window, which faced west, even
his tired eyes could see needle-
pricks along the edges of the
front panels. •
Was that a tacking thread?
He decided that it must be.
T T was the sun’s last rays
1 that were expending them-
selves in the vestry. The summer
evening was dwindling into night.
Every blade of grass in the far-
rolling paddocks that stretched
from Mallow’s Marsh to the sea
on one side, and to the distant
hills on the other, had its gold-
tipped shadow. The hens had
gone to roost. The men had
milked the cows and carried the
foaming milk-buckets into the
dairy. Except in the old
Rector's heart, all was at peace.
Life was slowing its tempo
when Dr. Phantom in his
smart Hyde Park drove up from
the village and, leaping grace-
fully out, while his new groom
held the horses’ heads, ran
lightly up the flagged path from
the front-gate, to stand by the
French window, looking in. It
is hard to guess for whom his
eyes were searching with so much
love in them.
Coming towards the Rectory
from the Parramatta-road, a
horseman, who, for the past
half-hour might have been dis-
cerned trotting hitherward —one
saw for miles in such a low-
lying, featureless terrain —arriv-
ing just after the young doctor,
and just as the sun was staging
one of the most spectacular sun-
sets in his history—had anyone
known it—tied his mount to the
fence, and ran, with an ardor
equalling Dr. Phantom’s, to
take his stand at the second
French window. He, too, looked
into the now-lamplit drawing-
room.
The brocade cape over his
trembling arm, Mr. McCree had
entered a moment or two before
these young men took up their
stations.
There are in old Bibles steel
engravings of Sarah standing half
in shade, listening, close to the
tent door, while Abraham
interviews his angel. So these
young men stood, gazing in, when
Peronel, dressed in her widow’s
black (“never was under cloude
black so fair a star”), entered, at
the fatal moment when her
father-in-law, displaying the
brocade cape, was asking Per-
petua, “Is this the pattern you
noticed on Peronel’s dress?”
“Yes!” Astounded, Perpetua
rose to her feet, to finger the rich
material. “Yes! The gold
threads! The mellow parch-
ment-like cream! The
damascened pattern of grapes
and their leaves! Of course it
is the same!”
She threw an agonised glance
at Peronel.
“I did not mean to be a tell-
tale, dear Peronel! The ques-
tion took me by surprise.”
“Dear Perpetua, of course you
didn’t! But, naturally, I meant
to explain that I had borrowed
the cope for the evening—for
the honor of the family. How
could I possibly have appeared
in that brilliant gathering—from
Mallow’s Marsh, Doggett’s
Patch, Dural, Hornsby Junction,
Parramatta —everyone was there!
—wearing my daughter’s dress?
Which everyone who had been
at Aminta’s wedding would have
recognised? Everyone! ”
Fairer than Cressid in her
widow’s weed, Peronel looked
her loveliest as she spoke.
(Though Cressid, possibly, was
not expected by an exacting
mother-in-law to cover her hair
with a widow’s cap of white
lisse .)
Staring in, the young men had
intended to enter, but delight had
made them immobile.
Mrs. McCree, in her maroon
rep, sitting upright in a high
chair, her black hair parted and
plastered down on each side of
her head, her hands on her lap,
her feet (as directed by the
“Ladies’ Intelligencer” of her
youth) laid one over the other
at the instep, her usually rosy
face white with emotion, could
only gasp, “Oh, what wicked-
ness! Oh, what desecration!
Oh, what sacrilege! Oh, my
dear girl!” A soft murmur that
went on and on, like a bee dron-
ing, whatever anyone else might
be saying.
Juliet, low in her armchair,
clasped the sleeping Donalbain
in her arms. It was not for her
to criticise her beautiful mother.
But the Rector, his voice stut-
tering again, asked, “D-d-do you
mean to say that you took this
sacred vestment and wore it as
a d-d-dress at a ball?”
“Yes, I did.”
Remembering her triumphs
Peronel smiled.
(But where did that whisper of
“Sin!” come from? Certainly
not from her guardian angel,
whom she saw peeping wistfully
in from the side window. He
had approved of her action. He
had advised it! Was that still
small voice her awakening con-
science? She hoped not)
I T had long ago been ruled by
* the hierarchy which attends
to such matters that it was not
necessary for the elder members
of the McCree family to have
guardian angels. A little nightly
attention from Matthew, Mark,
Luke and John, a few minutes’
guard-duty round their four-
poster, as a compliment, merely,
was considered all that was
needed by beings so naturally
good as Mr. and Mrs. McCree.
That Peronel should have
wanted such a mentor was an
admission of her frailty. The
whole household was aware that
she had one; no one, therefore,
was surprised at her reference
to such a personage when she
continued, “I don’t admit that I
was, personally, in any way to
blame! I did it on my guardian
angel’s recommendation.”
Looking across to the side
window she saw him nod and
smile. He was quite prepared
to take the knock himself.
“What!” Mr. McCree spoke
warmly. “Do you mean to tell
me that such an act of sacrilege
was committed on the recom-
mendation of a heavenly being?
lam appalled! What a scandal-
ous charge! How shocked, how
surprised everyone in Heaven
must be!”
“Indeed, Heaven will not be
in the least surprised. Heaven
will not be at all shocked! If
it was considered to be wrong
for me to borrow a church vest-
ment, why did Heaven give me
a Low Church guardian angel?
Tell me that, now!”
Though Mrs. McCree here
went off into peals of laughter,
though Mr. McCree smiled a
slow smile of appreciation of
her neat point, Peronel lost her
nerve.
Looking her loveliest, she tore
off her widow’s cap and threw
it on the floor, and crying out in
her delicious voice (her eyes full
of tears), “Oh, darling! Don’t
let them bully me!” she flung
herself through the French
window and into the waiting, the
wide-open, the welcoming arms
of one of the young men.
It is rather tantalising that it
was too dark for the onlookers
to see into whose arms she so
gracefully, yet so impulsively,
rocketed.
THE WATCH
By DAVID ROWBOTHAM
HIS ear, pressed painfully
against the pillow, still
heard its swift musical
ticking ; a blithe trotting
sound that, when all other pre-
sences and noises had become
blurred in delirium, was his one
communication with things ex-
ternal to sickness, like voices and
sunshine.
He had always wanted a
watch, and his father, because
of an empty pocket and the be-
lief that an energetic boy of ten
wouldn’t know how to look after
one, had always merely
promised ; but when, weak and
feverish, the boy had objected
about going to hospital because
he couldn’t see any reason for
such a shift, a bargain had been
struck, which amounted to the
boy’s receiving a shining pocket-
watch with a chain that gathered
like mercury in the hand and, in
return, his giving consent to be
taken to hospital.
He would turn his head on
side in bed to squint at it beside
his pillow, or dandle it under the
bedclothes, or fondle its chain,
and tell the time every minute of
the day. It was never given a
chance to run down. The ser-
rated bead-sized winding-knob
clicked magically between his
thumb and finger, and there was
the long, thin, red second-hand
that he loved to peer at as, effort-
lessly revolving, it outpaced the
small, perceptible movement of
the minute-hand and the imper-
ceptible labor of the sluggish
hour-arrow. The glass covering
the sheer-white face, on which
was printed in sharp, black,
Roman notation the twelve
numbers, with “R ” in flow-
ing italics under the twelve and
“Swiss Made” in delicate letters
squeezed in under the six, glinted
like a sun, and the steel back
felt like the smooth, warm
radiator cap on his father’s old
car. He liked pulling the wind-
ing-knob out and sweeping the
hands around the dial like mini-
ature rays of darkness across
clear light, and then snapping
the knob back again to rest tight
to the rim.
'T' HE watch could be held
* quite a distance away and its
tick would still be audible.
Naked against the ear it literally
bounded, metallically gallant.
Sometimes he would manoeuvre
it under the bedclothes to a
pleasant position between the
soles of his feet. It couldn’t be
heard then, but it seemed a
newer, even more significant
thing down there, and the knob
against his toe brought an in-
calculable expression to his eyes.
It was there that the nurse found
the watch when he at last be-
came oblivious to all but the
pain in his chest and shoulders.
She restored it to beneath his
pillow, where, like some irresist-
ible and sounding spirit, it edged
him away from death.
He became inordinately proud
of it. He displayed it on all
occasions, flaunted it for every
eye, told everybody the time
without invitation or provoca-
tion, “timed” the football
matches, made figures and letters
om of its cnain on his desk at
school, put it, once, into a basin
to see how much louder it
would sound, adjusted the hands
studiously each day to the chime
of the Town Hall clock, and,
withal, grew a little arrogant.
One afternoon he set off for
the big paddock. The football
match had already begun when
he arrived. To cries of “Hurry
up, you’re late” he solemnly de-
tached the chain from his
trouser-belt and placed the
watch, cowled in a grubby
handkerchief, in a hole that a
dog had dug by the fence; then
joined in the game. At half-time
he limped across to where the
watch lay, and, while eating an
orange, swore that the referee
had blown the whistle thirty
seconds too soon ; which meant
that Nigger would have had
time to score that try, and also
proved that the ref. was in
league with the other side.
When he struggled off the field
at the end of the second half, the
watch was gone.
HIS father went to the home
of every boy who had been
in the paddock that afternoon,
appealing to parents. Every boy
fervently denied that he had ever
been near the hole ; which was
untrue, but acceptable to the
parents, maddening to the boy’s
father, dully inconsequential to
to boy.
He was, in time, given another
one. It had “R ” in flowing
italics under the twelve and
“Swiss Made” in delicate letters
squeezed in under the six. It
glinted in the sun, and the steel
back felt like the smooth
radiator cap on his father’s old
Morris car. Its chain gathered
like mercury in the hand. But
he never told anybody the time,
unless asked ; he kept it hidden
on his person, never made letters
with its chain on his desk, didn’t
bother about setting it to the
Town Hall chimes, left it at
home when he went playing
football, and grew, withal, a little
mistrustful.


d f
THE
CANBERRA
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
CANBERRA, A.C.T.
A Church of England Boarding and Day School
for Boys from Primary to Leaving Certificate.
Rural and Agricultural Courses available. Excep-
tionally good Air Communication with all States;
one hour from Sydney. Excellent Climate.
For Prospectus and Particulars apply to
REV. DAVID GARNSEY, B.A. (Syd.), M.A. (Oxon.).
HEADMASTER
mm
f
mm
1
Mu
BULLDOG
Crude Oil Tractor
saves
me
080
event, (
uear! j
4i YEARS
NON-STOP OPERATION
Can you imagine such amazing perform-
ance? Yet that’s the actual equivalent in
terms of time worked by this remarkable
Bulldog Tractor owned by Mr. R. W. Irvin
'of Tulletop. He writes;
"My 11-years-old “N” Model Lanz Tractor
worked 30,000 hours before it was rebored
and approximately 10,000 hours since, and is
still in really good order. The transmission
has not been renewed anywhere, nor have
the king pin bushes been replaced, or front
wheel bearings adjusted. Over the 1 1 years I
have paid out £204 in repairs and replace-
ments, including a rebore. Fuel consumption
on most work pulling 6-furrow, I.H.C. mould-
board plough, 12-disc Shearer, 18-run com-
bine and Bft. header ground drive is about
one gallon per hour and approximately \
gallon lubricating oil per
I 0-hour day. My tractor
has been an outstanding
tractor for reliability,
economy and power.”
tape
“Here’s how it works out! I work my property of 500 odd acres
with my BULLDOG on an average of 7 to 8 times a year and use
approximately 1875 gallons of crude oil. With crude oil at 1/2 a
gallon, my total fuel bill comes to £lO9/7/6. Now, if I had a
kerosene tractor, which would consume 2 gallons of kerosene to
BULLDOG’S U gallons of crude oil, doing the same work. I’d
use 2500 gallons of kerosene priced at 1/9 per gallon. That
totals £2lB/15 /-! —or just double what my BULLDOG CRUDE
OIL TRACTOR costs me. When I add BULLDOG’S' further
savings of £7O on annual maintenance and depreciation—due to
its remarkable simplicity and heavy duty construction —all told,
my BULLDOG CRUDE OIL TRACTOR saves me £lBO
EVERY YEAR on the running costs of other tractors. I can t
afford to be without a BULLDOG. Can you?
'M
Contact your State Distributor
for full particulars:
3
w
Boort, Vic.
"The only cost of repairs and
replacements to my 12-year-old
Lanz Bulldog Tractor was ap-
proximately £1 4, when the engine
itself was overhauled about two
years ago. The gears and differ-
ential have never been uncovered.
1 am still using the original hot
bowl.”
C. Cable.
HL&M/LANZ
BilllDOG
ChM/u oil
K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 304-314 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
K.L. Distributors Pty. Ltd., 233 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. Ltd., 349 William Street, Perth.
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 121 Brunswick Street, The Valley, Brisbane.
Elder Smith & Co. Limited, 27-31 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Wants.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Copy of verse which states that
taking a new dog to your heart is
the greatest compliment a dog-lover
can pay to a dog that has died.
4962.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of Irramirra, an aboriginal
place-name ? —4963.
Information Sought.
(1) Does the Australian Red Cross
Society publish a balance-sheet ? (2)
If so, what is their credit, and how
is it invested? (3) Total amount of
salaries or wages paid per year?
(1) Yes, it publishes a report and
financial statement each year, and we
have sent you one for 1949-50 by
post. (2) Liquid assets of the society
as at June 30 last amounted to
£2,677,099. This is invested in
trustees’ stock, most of it being in
Commonwealth Government Loans.
(3) The total amount of salaries paid
for the last financial year, and which
included transport costs, amounted to
£131,650, being for actual salaries, in
the region of 12 p.c. of the total
year’s expenditure.
* * * *
Whan and ~dien was Peter Felix
born? Was Felix any relation to
Peter Jackson, and did he ever win
the Australian heavyweight champion-
ship? Which was the bigger man,
Felix or Jackson?
Peter Felix was born in St. Croix,
West Indies, on July 17, 1866. Felix
and Jackson were not related,
although Jackson was also born in
St. Croix, on July 3, 1861. Felix
won the Australian heavyweight
championship by beating Bill Doherty
in seven rounds at Kalgoorlie on
December 4, 1899, but Doherty out-
pointed Felix over 20 rounds in their
return at Sydney on July 16, 1900.
Both Felix and Jackson were big men,
Felix being 6ft. 3in. tall and weighing
13st., while Jackson stood 6ft.
and weighed 13st. 101 b.
* * * *
How is whisky-poker played?
An extra hand is dealt, face down,
and each player, in turn, may take it
in exchange for his own, leaving his
cards on the table, face up. Any
following player may then exchange
one card or take them all. If no one
takes the widow while face down the
dealer turns it face up, and the
players draw or exchange. This con-
tinues until some player “knocks,”
without drawing, and after each of
the others has had a draw the hands
are shown for the pool, to which
each has equally contributed.
* * * *
What manner of men were
Governor Macquarie, Captain Phillip
and Governor Bligh in appearance?
Macquarie was a tall, vigorous man
nearly 14st. in weight, with swarthy
skin and penetrating grey eyes. Phillip
was a slight, dark-complexioned man
of below medium height, quick in
manner and self-controlled. Bligh
was below average height, somewhat
heavily built, with black hair, blue
eyes and a pale complexion.
* * * *
When and by whom was casein
discovered, and what are its uses ?
At the end of the 19th century Dr.
Adolf Spitteler was working in Ham-
burg to develop a “white black-
board.” Towards this end he united
sour milk with formaldehyde and
achieved a tough, insoluble, hornlike
mass, which led to the first patent
grant for casein in 1900 to Dr.
Spitteler and a colleague, W. Krische.
Production of this material began
almost immediately in Germany and
France under the trade-name of
Galalith, which means milkstone, and
manufacture began in England soon
after, in 1914. In the United States
the first successful casein develop-
ment was undertaken by the Alad-
dinite company in 1919. Casein
plastics are largely used to manufac-
ture such items as beads, buttons,
ornaments and similar novelties and
accessories. The limitations on its
more extensive use are imposed by
its poor moisture-resistance.
Brief Answers.
R.W.; The process is known as
black anodizing, and is applicable to
metal surfaces. A description of this
method was published in the journal
“Metal Industry,” vol. 67, p. 185,
of August 24, 1945, which is avail-
able at the Public Library of N.S.W.,
Sydney W.M.H.; Songs from the
South Seas by Alice Allen Innes,
printed by Edwards and Shaw, 171
Sussex-street, Sydney....J.G.A.: Write
United States Information Library,
care Public Library of N.S.W.,
Sydney A.G.R.: There are no
nominations for the position of
President of the United Nations. The
procedure is for delegates to vote for
whom they wish, every delegate,
theoretically, being a candidate. In
practice, however, there has been
some canvassing of possibilities prior
to the meeting of the Assembly, and
delegates, when voting, are usually
committed, through their delegations’
instructions, to one of two or three
candidates R.L.: The edition is
far too old to be of any resale value.
The latest edition is the 14th, revised
and brought up to date, 1948
M.F.8.: The Charles Dickens edition
is only a cheap reprint, and odd
volumes are always to be found in
second-hand bookshops, priced in the
yicinity of 1/6 to 2/6 each, according
to the general condition of the copies.
R.E.G.: On Tuesday, November
12, 1918, the news that Germany had
applied to the Allied Powers for an
armistice, which had been granted,
was officially communicated to Aus-
tralia. Four days previously a prema-
ture announcement to the same effect
was made in the United States and
cabled all over the world J.A.D.;
Normally shares cannot be transferred
without a properly signed transfer.
Cannot help further without knowing
circumstances tinder which the shares
were removed from the register.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
C.R.: Yes, they’re fine cricketers,
but don’t let us write too much bad
verse about them.... H.L.: Every
tame schoolteacher and wild barman
in the country is writing similar
Korean verses at the moment....
P. 8.: Tell your friend on whose
behalf you submitted the verse that
the worst has happened W.L.A.:
Doubt whether your poem would
push up the recruiting figures
H O’G.: No feeding-bottle verses,
thanks....C.H.C.: Yes, they prob-
ably express the sentiments or the
man in the street, but they dont
express them we 11... .G.8.A.: J.ne
classic themes can be made very dull,
can’t they? ... .M.R.C.: So tar as
The Bulletin is concerned it has no
use for faint pencilling on shiny
paper. The stuff may be worth a lot,
but the staff’s eyes are worth more.
S.C.: Printable poetesses aged 13
are rare.. . .K.McL.: You start well,
but fall away M.J.F.: Pretty in a
feeble, flickering way E.F.: We
ask you at the top of our voice: Is
there any human being on this con-
tinent who is not writing verse about
the atom-bomb? C.0’8.: The MS.
pleaded for consideration, but was
compelled to walk the plank. The
office-boy, with glee, pushed it over-
board M.E.A.: Why make such
hard work over such a little subject?
Bellerive: A toast to Tommy:
R.L.: Your letter: “Attached is
an attempt at expressing my thoughts
on creation. It is a concise review
of knowledge gained from a slight
acquaintance with the master minds.
I am not greatly concerned as to
whether its destiny will be cold print
or the wastepaper basket, since it has
afforded me the opportunity of mar-
shalling my thoughts and the pleasure
of giving them material form.” Well,
if you really don’t mind, we’ll
entomb the few remarks on the cold,
remote subject H.J.W.: Very
noble, but rather dull. Let’s strike
an average and call it respectable.
Did the difference
between you and your girl produce
your poems or did your poems pro-
duce the difference? .... M.D.; Long-
winded prattling about nothing in
particular oo 19 pages of manu-
script. Begone R.J.: “Ginger” is
the worst dog-poem received this
week, and the basket is already a
kennel of them... .J.R.M.: Your
writing shows considerable skill —in
avoiding saying anything of import-
ance.
TOMMY BURNS.
In fistic days of yore
Renowned Tommy Burns,
Foremost opponents
Vanquished in turns.
Of cyclone force
And quick as a cat.
He could twist and leap
Like a acrobat.
Crafty, shifty and
Devoid of fear,
Crowned he’s success
During he’s career.
He lost to Johnson
Some years ago
After a heroic battle
Against the big negro.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Old-age Pensions
Senator Spooner (B. 25/10/’5O) omitted
an important objection to widening the
present means test.
Partly because old people generally are
living longer, and partly because of the
loss of potential citizens during the 1920's
and ’3o’s, when the birthrate reached a
record low level, the proportion of persons
of pensionable age to the whole com-
munity is going to increase substantially
in the near future. It is unlikely that die
slightly improved birthrate of recent
years, combined with the influx of
migrants—not all of whom are youthful
—will do much to offset the tendency.
In 1901, those over 65 numbered 4 p.c.
of the population; today the ratio is
eight per 100, and by 1970 it may well
be 12 per 100. When the Commonwealth
old-age-pension scheme was introduced
there were 17 workers per couple of
pensionable age, today there are 13 and
by 1970 the figure will probably have
fallen to six.
In the past the proportion of people
of an age to receive the pension who
drew it was much smaller than today,
when about 40 per cent, are beneficiaries.
If the means-test were widened, let
alone abolished, the cost of old-age
pensions would soon become an intoler-
able burden to the economically-active
section of the community.
As Senator Spooner rightly remarked,
only a soundly-conceived national insur-
ance scheme will provide a satisfactory
solution of the problem. The present
social-services tax, burdensome as it is,
is too low to permit abolition of the
means-test. Morris the Tinker
(N.S.W.).
The Deadheads
It is to be hoped that during the
Sydney Government’s inquiry or com-
mission into its transport mess, some
authoritative witness will point out in
round figures the cost of the iniquitous
and ever-growing free-list.
About one-third of Sydney’s working
population is composed of public ser-
vants, and about half that number is
employed by departments or branches
enjoying travel-free concessions. This
one-sided dispensation represents not only
an enormous loss of revenue to the
various transport services, but is becom-
ing a very real burden on the rest of the
community.
It has been argued that the travelling
privileges of policemen, transport workers
and such are accounted for in hard cash
by wage-award adjustments. That is
nonsense, or, at best, a half-truth—-these
people benefit from basic-wage and/or
cost-of-living increases like the rest of
us, but, in spite of correspondingly steep
rises in bus, tram and train fares, con-
tinue to travel “on the cuff.” Anyway,
in plain fairness, why should Jack the
trammie, for instance, ride to and from
his work for nothing when Jim the
postie must pay for his postage-stamps
and, if he can afford it, his telephone?—
P. O, MacCabe (N.S.W.).
Prefabs
“Bumpkin” and “Pongo” (B.
18/10/’5O) allow their enthusiasm for
pise and concrete slabs to run away with
them in the matter of solving the present
high cost of building and the shortage
of houses.
There is no perfect building material.
All have their merits and demerits, on
which experts differ, and each prospec-
tive home-owner must decide which suits
his requirements and locality. Anyone
who has travelled in England, Europe or
the U.S.A. will have noticed houses
generally built of materials at hand. This
was both necessary and economic in early
times and remains true today.
IVse and mudbrick under certain con-
diiions mainly rural-make first-class
homes, but they have their faults. Actu-
ally they have been superseded by the
kiln-burned brick, which could not have
happened if there were no economic
advantage.
Prefabs or mass-produced dwellings
suffer from restriction of design to a
certain number of types—“P.’s” concrete
slabs to rooms to suit 4ft. slabs—
w,hereas bricks and timber are easily
adapted to suit design. Houses have
generally been designed to suit individual
The contributor placed first is paid
4|<L per line; all others 2 Id. per line.
tastes, even though standardised homes
for standardised people might be a
Socialist dream.
There is room for all kinds or types of
building and building materials if we
wish to meet the demand for houses.
But when this boom ends the orthodox
will remain and unorthodox methods will
be driven out by competition. It has
happened before, and I can only think of
three major materials that have proved
their worth in my time —concrete, fibro-
cement and fibrous plaster, the last re-
placing lath and plaster. Chips
(N.S.W.).
“Thrift”
A grim future is often forecast for us
because “thrift” is no longer deemed
a virtue and not often practised. I’m no
authority on economics, and I don’t know
if everyone was thrifty in any previous
age, but it. seems that it would be a
serious blow to our economy if we were
all to start being “thrifty” now.
Wouldn’t it mean the almost immediate
closing of many industries, with
thousands thrown out of work?
I admit that companies have to put
away moneys to accumulate additional
capital, provide for depreciation and
suchlike ; and the individual in business
would have to do the same. But would
everything work out all right if everyone
saved every possible penny? A Dutch
economist, E. C. Van Dorp, has thought
over this question:
The more the rich save in any state of
society the better. The poor, on the con-
trary, present a serious problem with regard
to saving. We cannot say that they must
not save, as this may impair their pros-
pects for the future. Yet on the whole I
venture the assumption that their “thrift”
is not desirable.
I think that general principle is true.
There's probably no connection, but
whenever I read a plea for thrift I auto-
matically think of the misers of literature
—old Scrooge, Silas Marner, Harpagon,
Volpone. None of them is a likeable
character (at any rate, while they think
only of piling up money), and none of
them seems to have been happy. Misers
“Merry Christmas , Sarge.”
of real life would have been very like
Scrooge and the others.
There is now a better economic system
than when those misers lived; now
accumulated wealth can be put to pro-
ducing goods and services, thus adding to
the total riches of the community. But
misguided and overzealous application of
thriftiness could alter all that, and pro-
duce again the miser and the general un-
happiness and distorted mental outlook
once associated with him. K. R.
(N.S.W.).
Hotel Reform
I hope that N. S. Wales M.L.A.
Geraghty is going to emulate the fourth
Lord Grey, and keep plugging away for
hotel reform and freedom from the tied-
house system.
During the latter years of the 19th
century the English inn was a house run
for the benefit of the coach-travelling
public, a place where guests were wel-
comed by mine host, and both man and
beast were well fed and bedded for the
night. With the gradual growth and
popularity of the railway these old inns
soon became a back number, and the
newly-built hotels near railway-stations
began to capture the travelling trade.
Lord Grey, with many other public-
spirited men, saw that the object of the
new breed of hotelkeeper was to provide
mediocre accommodation and to concen-
trate as much as possible on the more-
lucrative bar trade.
Then began an agitation for hotel
reform, and a number of small companies
calling themselves Trust Houses were
former. Different districts of England
were under the control Of separate com-
panies, but in each case their aims and
objects were similar —to provide the
travelling public with good and whole-
some accommodation. The managers of
these Trust Houses, as they became
known, were paid, in addition to a fixed
salary, a commission on the sale of meals
and accommodation. No commission
was paid on bar takings.
Before 1914 the Trust Houses were
gaining in popularity, but, of course, like
most hotels and inns in England, they
suffered badly during 1914-18.
Between wars these various indepen-
dent companies were more or less
absorbed by a newly-formed corporation
calling itself Trust Houses, Ltd., but the
objects remained as before. The com-
pany now controls several hundred houses
scattered through England, Wales and
Scotland, varying in size from a small inn
with two bedrooms to a large London
Hotel of 130 bedrooms. The company
explains that the word “Trust” does not
imply a monopolistic show—it simply
means that the public may place the
utmost confidence in the inn or hotel.
All that may be too much to expect at
present in Australia, but what has been
accomplished in England by the untiring
efforts of a small band of reformers could
happen here if only our legislators would
rise from their apparent permanent
obsequity to the liquor trade. — Dune
(N.S.W.).
Hotelkeepers want higher prices for
drinks, to pay for alleged losses in resi-
dential sections, and the secretary to
U.L.V.A. tells us that if increases are
granted drinkers will have the satisfac-
tion of knowing they are helping to pay
losses at the back of the house. A strange
outlook on things.
A man wanting beer should not be re-
quired to subsidise a stranger who wants
bed and breakfast. People should only
pay for those goods and services they
themselves require. If residential sections
are unprofitable, it is for them that in-
creases should be sought.— Tackline S.
(N.S.W.).
The Police
With crime and juvenile delinquency
steadily increasing in Victoria it is time
for reform of the police department with
a view to getting it back to the ideal as
conceived by Peel —to afford maximum
protection to the private citizen.
The major duties of hundreds of police
in the metropolitan area consist of traffic
control, parking supervision and such
allied petty jobs as checking vehicles for
licences and inflation of tyres. Don’t
these functions properly belong to city-
council officers?
We also have the spectacle of constables
weighing vehicles and taking new drivers
for their licences, but not performing the
administrative duties which are rightly
carried out by the motor-registration
branch. In country districts police are so
busy with registration duties that they
have little time for keeping the peace or
for crime detection and prevention. That
state of affairs is, of course, worsened
by the prevailing staff shortage, but it is
debatable whether there would be a
shortage if the force were not saddled
with so many outside duties.
If the force is to be made what it should
be, the Government should lift it out of
the morass of clerical and supernumerary
duties.— Plain Australian (Vic.).
Trains, Trams, Etc.
I haven’t seen the report of the
Auditor-General which annoys “Jindi-
vick’’ so much (B. 25/10/’soj, but I
won’t have him lumping together such
activities as tile-making, brickworks and
house-building, and putting them in the
same category as State transport. The
first represent samples of Socialism for
its own sake where private enterprise
could do a better job. The second is a
sphere where, with minor exceptions
(shipping under certain flags is the best ex-
ample), the absence of Governmental con-
trol, assistance or operation is unknown.
That applies to practically all the world’s
railways, all its airlines, all its road
transport, and a great part of its shipping
services. Judged by normal commercial
standards with total expenditure set
against revenue, nine out of 10 would be
showing a thumping loss.
The Australian State Railways are not
a trading venture and never were, and
there’s no sense in judging their results by
commercial standards. I’ve no figures to
go on, but I’m certain that an unbiased
accountant with sufficient knowledge of
the many, varied and complex factors in-
volved could show that a £2\ million
deficit on the N. S. Wales system was an
extremely good result in existing circum-
stances.
Similarly, most urban transport
systems are publicly-owned and most of
them operate at a again for a variety
of reasons. Those that don’t would do
so if they were charged with the total
cost. I wonder how those Sydney tram
and bus figures would work out if you
deducted from the tramway loss the cost
of the large portion of the street which
the tram has to maintain but doesn’t use,
and added to the bus loss the cost of the
street which it uses but doesn’t pay for.
The answer to the whole thing is, of
course, that figures can be twisted to
mean just what you want them to mean.
—Transporticus (Singapore.).
Widows’ Pensions
There has been considerable agitation
to have civilian widows’ pensions placed
on a parity with war-widows’ pensions.
Passing over the fact that the latter are
too low, to compare the country’s obli-
gations to civilian widows to its outright
debt to the widows of its war dead is
ridiculous.
A war-widow’s pension is not merely
a sum paid to her by a Government
grateful for her husband’s supreme
sacrifice. It is part of a contract entered
into with the soldier himself. He was
guaranteed that, if he died, his widow
and children would be adequately pro-
vided for. They’re not, under the present
system, but at least the State is making
an attempt.
Protagonists of the civilian widows’
claim see an anomaly in the fact that a
means-test is applied to civilian widows,
whose earnings affect their pensions, and
not to the war widows, who may earn as
much as they can without suffering any
reduction in pension rates. What they
suggest, in effect, is that if a young couple
are both working, and the man dies, his
widow should be entitled to continue at
her work and also draw a substantial
grant from the State for the loss of her
husband. This is a logical extension of
the attitude which regards the State as a
milch cow (or goat) to be drawn
upon at each little touch of adversity—
an attitude which is robbing our nation
of all pretence at independence.
Civilian widows with children of an
age which makes it difficult for them to
take employment should receive a
pension which will provide for them and
their children without imposing undue
hardship or placing the children at a
disadvantage. But it should not be an
obligation on the State to maintain them
entirely in a manner to which they may
have become accustomed.
There may be cases where the civilian
widow’s pension is inadequate, and could
be increased —with the understanding that
the pension is a concession, not a State
debt, and that its receipt incurs a sense
of gratitude so lacking among present
recipients. I am not unsympathetic
towards civilian widows, but I maintain
that, where their pensions are concerned,
the means-test should apply.
But war widows are in an entirely dif-
ferent category. Their husbands’ deaths
imposed on the State an inescapable
obligation.— Gravelsnatcher (W.A.).


NEW AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
THE WILD WHITE MAN OF BADU, by lon L. Idriess.
Colourful, fantastic, yet true—the story of an escaped convict who became a
Torres Strait chief.
CITY OF MEN, by Gavin S. Casey.
A gripping novel of the Australian
decades of life in the mines.
goldfields, and a family saga of four
12/3 (post Bd.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Booksellers: Publishers: Librarians
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
A CHRISTMAS PRESENT FOR CHILDREN
which will be remembered all the year round
COLLINS MAGAZINE
FOR BOYS AND GIRLS
Intended for boys, and girls of 9-16 years of age. who enjoy reading. There
are stories, film reviews, puzzles, articles on how to make a variety of things,
keeping pets, camping and every subject of interest to wide-awake children.
Annual Subscription 30s. (including postage)
Obtainable through your bookseller or newsagent.
Dymock’s Christmas Catalogue
rnrTl Your Christmas Gifts can be so much more thoughtful, so much
more carefully chosen, when you buy in the peace and quiet
of your own home ... in fact, it’s a pleasure to shop from our
Christmas Catalogue.
Send for your copy today free to any address and
LET DYMOCK’S CARE FOR ALL YOUR CHRISTMAS GIFTS
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone; BL 3611.
EFG
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN BOOKSHOP
38 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY, N.S.W. PHONE: BW 9807.
And A.M.P. Lane, off Edward Street, Brisbane Price. Post.
d
SOME PENGUINS & PELICANS
II?m“ow n ?sc I e de» v t es .;::::::;;;;;:::I" vT'A, ».
THE ASTONISHING HISTORY OF TROY TOWN 4. Qutller Couch
BLACK NARCISSUS G °^ imnn
DON’T MR. DISRAELI . . . . ' • J
BRIGHTON ROCK • • • • • '• rfihon*
COLD COMFORT FARM Stem Gtbbw* t
THE INNOCENCE OF FATHER BROWN
GENETICS
K. Chesterton
H. Kalmus
iraimmn lim'mTiDftTO ’ ’ Kenneth Walker
MEANING AND PURPOSE . Ge rtrvdc Williams
ECONOMICS OF EVERYDAY LIFE
2/3 each posted. Write for free list of all titles in stock.
THE PENGUIN BOOKSHOP
HOSKING PLACE, SYDNEY.
AVAILABLE NOW
THE BOOK OF THE THOUSAND NIGHTS AND ONE NIGHT. Complete French
Four volumes. By Powy Mathers. Price £B. Postage 6/6
COLLECTED VERSE OF A. (“BANJO”) PATERSON.
COLLECTED VERSE OF HENRY LAWSON.
12/6 each vol.
1/6 each postage.
STAR MONEY. A New Novel by Kathleen Winsor (^thon^of^‘‘F^re^ve^^Amber”^.
THE MARRIAGE MANUAL, by Drs. Hannah and Abraham Stone
Price 15/-. Postage 1/6 reg.
THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF SEXUAL KNOWLEDGE, by Drs. Costler, Willy and
Others. Under Editorship 0 1 Norman Hallo. i/s
THE TIVOLI BOOKSHOP
336 CASTLERBAGH STREET, SYDNEY. M 3349. (Nr. Tivoli Theatre.)
Send 3d. stamp for our Free Catalogue
(personally or by deputy) functions of
government and reimburse themselves
from profits from undeveloped land. In
practice the lord-proprietor’s revenues
depended on votes from the local
assemblies l which came into existence.
The Duke of York, for instance, was
the proprietor of New York, otherwise
the island of Manhattan in the Hudson
River. Dutch traders had been there
since 1609, and in 1626 they bought from
the Indians for a parcel of trade goods
the rocky tip of the land, the best
anchorage on the coast and the best post
for advance into the interior —New
Amsterdam. The anchorage was com-
manded by a fort (Battery Point), and
Wall-street of today marks the line of
the stockade wall protecting the Dutch
from the English on the main part of
the island, who regarded the Dutch as
interlopers in their own New England.
In the peace treaty (1667) which ended
Charles IFs “disastrous” Dutch war, the
Dutch ceded to England New Amster-
dam in exchange for the West Indies
island of Surinam (esteemed a richer
prize), and a hundred years later (1763)
the London merchants of the day re-
garded as “a shameful diplomatic de-
feat” that Pitt should have signed a peace
treaty allowing the French to be rein-
stalled in Guadeloupe in exchange for the
cession of all French interests in Canada.
. Emigrants were hardier a hundred
years ago:
A party of McLeods evicted from
Sutherlandshire migrated to Nova Scotia
and from there went on to Cape Breton
Island, but did not prosper. In 1851 their
leader, the Rev. Norman McLeod, when an
old man of 70, ordained a further migra-
tion on the advice of his sailor son, who
wrote to iiim of the superior advantages
of South Australia. Whereupon 150 High-
landers set off in a barque of 500 tons which
they themselves had built and manned, but
finding S.A. not to their liking they
migrated ;;gain to New Zealand (1854).
Governor Grey settled them on land at
. Waipu, north of Auckland, where several
more shiploads followed from Nova Scotia,
. making a colony of 900 souls. The old
patriarch McLeod long survived to preach
to them in Gaelic. Their women used the
spinning-wheel at least into the 20th cen-
tury, and their young tnen distinguished
- themselves in the German Wars.
- The first inflation in Europe followed
the arrival (by safe convoy or capture)
of cargoes of bullion from Spain’s New
World, which “produced a great expan-
sion in the currency and a corresponding
rise in prices.” A contributory cause was
unsettlement of agriculture through
seizure of church lands in Protestant
countries. The gold rushes in the last
century all over the world raised prices
again. The effect of the Australian gold
boom in 1851-61 was to double the
annual value of the wool-clip. Readers
may find from these pages, among a host
of historical details, how guineas came
into currency; that rice first came to
England in commercial quantity only
90 years ago; what Captain James
Cook’s outstanding achievement was
(the conquest of scurvy—he sailed
three times round the world almost
without loss of life in his ship);
how the Canadian “Mounties” began and
why they wear red coats ; that cricket is
still played in Corfu, a survival of 50
years of British occupation there,, as is
also the Colonial Order of St. Michael
and St. George; how the Maoris insisted
on playing war as a sport; and that after
“the Australia of the convicts and the
squatters had passed away.. . .the
strongly-marked equalitarian tone of the
new and homogeneous society” was
“best seen in the Sydney school of ballad-
writers, journalists and caricaturists when
The Bulletin, inspired by the talented
Lindsay family, was in its ribald, radical
youth.”
British statesmen hoped and expected
between 1850 and 1870 that the Empire
would dissolve under the beneficence of
free trade. There was consternation in
a whole series of Colonial Secretaries in
London at the “inexplicable loyalty” of
the colonials, who, though wanting self-
government, did not want separation
from the Mother-country. This was re-
garded as sentimental folly, utterly irra-
tional, when the only links the nations
of the world should require were the
“rational” ones of mutual commerce in-
duced by free trade and the utilitarian
outlook. A contemporary professor of
modern history at Oxford held that the
49th Parallel was an unreal border, and
Canada’s future ought to lie inside the
United States ; and he viewed with con-
tempt the “strong colonial propensity for
the commercial vice of protectionism, the
natural resort of ignorant cupidity.” One
Assistant - Secretary in the Colonial
Office lamented to his chief the improved
relations with Canada as “the worst con-
sequence of the late dispute with the
United States.” Lord Melbourne asked
how he could be expected to take any in-
terest in British Columbia, “a country
where salmon would not rise to a fly.”
Anthony Trollope told Australians that
if they did not want separation they ought
to want it. Yet when the Palmerston
Government abolished an insignificant
preference on Canadian wheat there was
anger in Whitehall over a retaliatory dis-
crimination against British goods in the
Canadian Budget of 1859, and more
anger when the Indian Government re-
taliated against manchester goods upon
British abandonment of imports of
Indian teak.
The British had some excuse for their
concentration on the new empire they
were making with steam —as somebody
said “Steam is almost an Englishman:
they will soon be sending him to Parlia-
ment to make laws.” On land their long
lead enabled the British to contract for
railways in every continent, exporting
rails and rolling-stock ; and at sea they
collared most of the carrying trade of the
world, and when rival nations appeared
these still had to use English coaling
stations and English cables. The first
steamships could not compete with sail-
ing-ships on long voyages because they
could not carry enough coal. The crack
P. and O. ship in 1842 was the Hindu-
stan, a wooden paddie-steamer of 2000
tons, developing 520-horsepower at a
pressure of 71b. The organisation of the
P. and O.’s overland route to India was
threefold: — ,
In Western waters they ran ships with
English crews. East of Suez after 1854
they used ships built for tropical seas and
manned by lascars. In Egypt they main-
• tained resthouses and caravans of 2500
camels and 400 horses until these were
supplanted by the Egyptian State Railways,
which Robert Stephenson built, for the
Khedive (1858). The opening of the Suez
Canal (1869) was a sore blow to the
P. and O. Company, since their ships must
now be refitted to make the whole voyage
from England to India, but till 1888 the
mails and passengers disembarked at
Alexandria to go swiftly overland while the
ship passed through the Canal dead-slow,
by daylight only.
The fare to India by the latest-model
Nyanza (1800 tons) in 1869 was £95,
which included “wines and spirits gratis,
either at meals or when required.”
Many Australians may be surprised to
know that of the total British capital
abroad before World War I almost as
much was invested in the Argentine (8
per cent.) as in Australia (Australia and
New Zealand 11 per cent.), and that the
investments in South Africa (10 per cent.)
equalled those in all India and Cevlon.
F.M.C.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 100
Across.
I—Clement batsman can complete
this mountain yokel. (9)
5—A hundred fasten a door decora-
tion on a sock. (5)
B—Did8 —Did I dispatch the fellows to add
up in a somewhat maudlin
manner. (13)
10 — Duck yearned fretfully and ex-
pressed some views. (6)
11 — Small boys should not be thus an
island with a group of cattle
surrounding it. (5)
14 — No thanks from such in the
kitchen utensil. (7)
15— Conceals such skins. (5)
17 — River. (3)
18 — Highly concentrated in present or
past or future. (7)
20 —21 used in bridge-building. (7)
22 —Kind of lizard with a knockout
to finish. (5)
25 —Drink provided by the cartel. (6)
27 — Such instruction keeps 16 down
within reason. (7, 6)
28 — Sketched medico with a vegetable
beard. (5)
29 — Amplifier takes me to a suicide
resort in Sydney with a shar-
pener. (9)
Down.
1— Continue to molest before I
warble while providing a
euphonious countermelody. (11)
2 Enduring the French bee’s
malice. (7)
3 Face up, although rested. (4)
4 Why that is 50d. to give. (5)
5 An old song may end the innings.
(5)
6 —They help to make the wheels ot
industry turn from Colin as
redistributed. (7)
7 Small island note on the piano. (3)
9 —Name in rising the north German
composer and musicologist. (7)
12— Show tea between devils and a
tax. (11)
13— The male about this place. (4)
15 — Characteristic of the progress of
kangaroo .beer. (4)
16— Coppers corners in little valleys.
(7)
19—Bed upset the animal with a
musical work. (7)
21—Italy’s easternmost city managed
in the heart of Klemperer. (7)
23 Vegetable position of Idriess’s hat
when he visits the synagogue. (5)
24 — Moslem princess to be a jaw-
exerciser. (5)
26 To be the King rising for the
composer of “Wozzeck.” (4)
27 — Blushing. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 99.


II Oil
ll-
i'll
i If ll
rjp till II II
II Atm on era HII 51
ll iB mem tin nil ll'
11 cd mcm cm n» ll
iisnuatmim mi
ll
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
w. p. McGrath
(Chairman)
H. E. COLEMAN
(Deputy Chairman)
Dr. R. J. TAYLOR
Hon. T. G. MURRAY,
M.L.C.
H. MORRISSEY
General Manager:
C. A. RALPH
General Secretary:
J. G. TAYLOR. A.F.1.A., A.C.I.S.
•
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA:
459 Collins Street, Melbourne
LOCAL BOARD:
Sir TKoma* Nettlefold, K. 8., 0.8. E.,
(Chairman)
W. O. Burt, P. F. O’Colliras,
Ivan Holyman
Manager: J. Garrick, A.I.C.A.
•
QUEENSLAND:
307 Queen Street, Brisbane
LOCAL BOARD:
Stewart N. Gow, Chairman
W. A. O’Hare F. B. Charlton
Manager: J. M. Hannan, F.I.C.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
1 i 3 King William Street, Adelaida
LOCAL BOARD:
Hon. Frank T. Perry, M.L.C.
L. St, C. Clarkson O. L. laaachsen
Manager: D. W. Chaffer
•
TASMANIA;
22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
Manager: L. H. Williams
«
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
Manager: W. Dwyer
THE
CITY MUTUAL LIF
Assurance Society Limited
{lncorporated in New South Wales in I§7S)
TOTAL ASSETS; £20,000,000
Funds are available for investment
in approved se , viz:
NEW CAPITAL
FOR COMPANIES
AND
REAL PROPERTY
MORTGAGES
Head Office
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
60-66 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
C. A. RALPH, General Manager
