

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 71—No. 3648
Wednesday, January 11, 1950
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, .Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ANCIENT RECULVER’S “TWIN SISTERS” DOMINATE THE KENTISH COAST
T-HE twin towers of Reculver, near Herne Bay, are a prominent landmark
in that part of Kent known as the Isle of Thanet. Most visitors to
England have wondered why the district bears this name, for modern highways
have camouflaged the geographical division, but until about two centuries
ago Thanet was separated from the mainland of England by an arm of the
sea in places a mile wide. Silt from the Kentish anticline and erosion of
Thanet’s chalk cliffs by the sea combined to close the gap, and by Roman
times the rivers Wansum and Stour had usurped the bed of the ancient
strait.
The Roman fort of Reculver, which bore the name Regulbium, was built
during the latter half of the third century to defend Thanet against the raids
of the Saxons, just as, the fort at Richborough defended it on the south. The
fort of Reculver, in its entire form, occupied a site of about eight acres, and
parts of the south and east walls still remain standing. After its abandonment
by the Romans, Reculver next became the site of an early Christian church.
According to the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, Egbert, King of Kent, made a
grant to Reculver in 669 for the foundation of a monastery; and the Saxon
church was probably built on the site about this time. Excavations in 1927
disclosed the foundations of the church, which was enlarged in the eighth
century and again in the twelfth century when the twin towers, properly
known as the “Two Sisters,” were erected.
Owing to the inroads of the sea and to its inconvenient position, the
parishioners decided, at the beginning of the nineteenth century, to abandon
the church at Reculver and build anew one at Hillsborough, about a mile
inland, using some of the materials in the old church, which was partly
demolished for this purpose. The towers, however, as shown above, were
left standing as a valuable landmark, and were taken over by Trinity House,
the authority in charge of lighthouses.
GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OH SEPPELT


ẃ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
-CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
8.8. 150 AGE
The Red Page
"COAST TO COAST."
Many of the best writers of short
stories in Australia and New Zealand are
missing from Coast to Coast 1948 (edited
by Brian Elliott for Angus and Robert-
son), and many who are included, such as
Geoff Bingham, E. O. Schlunke and John
Fountain, are not represented by their
best work. Yet it is a pleasant collection,
with patches of striking merit, and with
an unexpected vein of poetry running
through the whole.
There are a number of stories which
would have been crowded out by deeper
and stronger work in other years, and
there are two which are far below
standard. For one of these, F. Pierce’s
“Over the River,” the defence might be
made that at least it is an attempt to
create a dramatic story and so is useful as
a corrective to the general pattern of
merely faithful reminiscence ; but, with-
out true characterisation and with a
mechanical surprise-ending that can be
seen a mile away, “Over the River” is in
the style of the cheapest of magazine
stories. Hal Porter’s “Act One, Scene
One,” is in a different category: not the
commerical but the experimental extreme.
Mr. Porter tries to “load every rift with
poetic ore,” but the ore is insufficiently
poetic and the experimentalism is merely
naive:
In my boyhood, maelstroms of wind,
a scum of cirrus on top, spun over the
flanks of the country; cyclones of light
heatlogged it; recurring eczemas of frost
or capeweed slid across it; within, voices
of coolness were bred to soar; night
repeatedly cascaded, drenching like black
champagne. Parrakeets struck phos-
phorescent flashes from its flesh; soda-
water-bubble skylarks were spat from its
pores
Against these two deviations from the
standard may be set three stories of very
high quality. Edward Wright, a new-
comer to Coast to Coast,, offers in “Black
Doves” a type of story too rare in Aus-
tralian writing, in which human relation-
ships are studied with a profound
delicacy: it is about a soldier-settler
whose wife has had a daughter to an
American. John Morrison’s “The Sleep-
ing Doll,” though the ending seems false
and doctrinaire and though the story as a
whole is gruesome, is a vivid portrait of a
potential murderer . who cuts the throats
of 22 sheep. And Lyndall Hadow,
dealing with the themes that have been
familiar in Australian fiction from
Lawson to Gavin Casey—mateship and
“dusted” miners—paints his scenes and
his people in “Nothing Can Bust It” with
unusual force and color. Schlunke’s
“Hay” just misses this company because
the blazing quarrel towards which it
obviously develops fails to materialise.
But it is neither from the inferior nor
the outstanding stories that this Coast to
Coast takes the character that separates it
from previous issues, but from the large
proportion of reminiscences of child-
hood —some perhaps genuine, some a
literary artifice. Dal Stivens, for instance,
opens “The Pepper-tree” with the
sentence, “My father often spoke about
the pepper-tree when we were kids and it
was clear that it meant a lot to him,” and,
of course, goes on to tell, very neatly, how
father became disillusioned about the
pepper-tree. Judah L. Waten in
“Neighbors” opens with “Our new next-
door neighbors arrived in the morning”
and proceeds with a reminiscence of
Jewish immigrants in Australia in the
period before the 1914 war. E. Dithmack
in “I’ll Take You Home, Kathleen” gets
going with “Our Uncle James is an old
man now” and tells how Uncle James
sang at night and deceived “our Auntie
Luce,” who, a welcome prodigy in out-
back fiction, read Hardy and Jane Austen.
J. B. Blair in “Please to Remember” opens
with “I was out of bed very early. Like
most seven-year-olds”— and proceeds to
describe small-boy gang-warfare in
Adelaide on Guy Fawkes Day.
Hal Porter’s story is, or purports to be,
another reminiscence of childhood. Helen
Meggs’s “Burning Off,” an amusing satire
on the Victorian custom of starting bush-
ẁ
Scots in Otago.
Probably the judges in the Otago
“Daily Times” historical novel competi-
tion, conducted during Otago’s centennial
in 1948, did not require more than a
readable and reliable dramatisation of the
province’s history; and Georgina Mc-
Donald’s Grand Hills for Sheep (Whit-
combe and Tombs, Ltd.), which won the
£200 prize, must have been just what they
were looking for.
It deals with a family of Scottish immi-
grants who leave Scotland in 1848 and,
without any strong central theme other
than their desire to acquire “a scalp of
land” and raise sheep on it, follows their
fortunes from day to day naturally and
sympathetically. Hamish McCallum, in
the preliminary chapter in Scotland, loses
his first wife and marries a second;
children on the ship have whooping-
cough ; Hamish mistakes a Saturday for
a Sunday and orders a respite from
work (this is a Scottish joke); the
wife of a McWhirter boasts about her
ne’er-do-well husband ; a child dies and
Hamish’s second wife temporarily loses
her reason; Hamish’s brother goes off
with his son to the goldfields, where the
brother is murdered and the son falls into
the clutches of a harlot named Queenie ;
Hamish’s daughter by his first wife,
Shona, is deserted by her lover, who, tired
of waiting while she tends her father,
seduces and then marries her sister
Nessie; Hamish dies at last seeing in
Shona’s face a vision of his first wife and
leaving Nessie’s son, brought up by die
diligent Shona, to carry on raising sheep
for his own and Otago’s benefit—of such
domestic happenings is the bulk of the
novel made up.
With this family story goes a sketchy
but careful history of the province, men-
tioning the principal factors in its de-
velopment : the Scottish immigrants; the
attempts to produce ar suitable type of
sheep by cross-breeding; the Maori wars
in the North Island, which Shona’s errant
lover proposes to attend; the discovery
of gold, and the boisterous character of
the goldfields contrasted with the sobriety
of sheep-farming ; the winning of a prize
for wool; the appearance of the first
rabbit; and, as a kind of trump-card at
the end, the safe arrival in London of the
first shipment of frozen mutton.
As we have seen often enough in Aus-
tralia, novels such as Grand Hills for
Sheep, in which an attempt is made to
link a personal story with the history of
a nation, are apt to be mechanical.
Georgina McDonald could obviously have
written a more forceful drama if, instead
of occupying herself with making sure
that Hamish dies in triumph at precisely
the right historical moment —when the
first shipment of frozen mutton reaches
London —she had developed more clearly
what seems to be the underlying, perhaps
unconscious, theme of the novel: either
the destruction of Shona by her father
or her growth through domestic tyranny
to powerful maturity. Admirable as
frozen mutton may be as a substance, and
important in the history of Otago,
w
"Good of Its Kind."
If the harassed sub-editors of this
paper are ever surprised, it is by the way
in which contributors treasure comments
in the “Answers to Correspondents”
column. Here is Elma Napier, who has
written four books, and now this book
of Australian reminiscences, Winter is in
July (Cape); one of her fondest memories
is of sending a story to The Bulletin
around the 1920’s and being told: —
E.G., South Yarra: Good of its kind,
but no room for that kind here
A literary friend applied balm: “The
Bully doesn’t make a habit of throwing
bouquets” ; and, indeed, room was found
for “that kind” in “The Home,” in the
days when “The Home” was a “new
quarterly, expensively printed on ‘Tatler-
ish’ sort of paper”; there the then
Mrs. Maurice Gibbs appeared both as
authoress and in her own right among
“some younger matrons, hostesses and
others,” her paternity ascribed to “Sir
William Gordon Gumming of Tranby
Croft, than which” —since Tranby Croft
was where Sir William was alleged to
have cheated at cards —“there could be
no worse error”: —
This spirituelle figure represents Mrs.
Maurice Gibbs, who charmed Melbourne
when she made that city her home. Her
wistful blue eyes gaze on life from an
interested viewpoint; a touch of la vie de
Boheme makes her circle of friends a
large and interesting one.
“I duly writhed,” says the author; but
wears as a medal The Bulletin’s refer-
ence to her: —
Mrs. Maurice Gibbs, a pretty, fair girl
in a dress of crushed-mouse-color....
“It was a dark pink,” she says, “shot
with gold”—in any case it will be seen
that Mrs. Maurice Gibbs was a lady of
some importance ; dined and danced with
the Prince of Wales when he was in Aus-
tralia : —
The Melbourne Club, probably the most
conservative institution in the world, was
scandalised by the Royal guest demanding
at dinner that the King’s health be drunk
immediately after the soup because he
wanted to smoke. But he said a charming
thing to me while we were having a drink
after dancing. A programme lay on the
floor beside me and he picked it up,
asking “Is this yours?” Opening it and
seeing it blank, he said; “Oh, no! it isn’t
yours I”
The mother of a girl much noticed by
the Prince said another charming thing:
“The Prince left even Mrs. Maurice Gibbs
to talk to my daughter” ; but
... .the poor girl lost her head. Driving
back with me from a lunch on a flagship,
where I met her for the first time, she put
her hand on mine, saying kindly: “I’m
glad he danced with you. I like him to
dance with my friends.”
Among our author’s friends in Aus-
tralia were Angela Thirkell, “married to
a man called Stainless George, for the
obvious reason that he sold or manufac-
tured stainless steel knives,” and one Dick
Casey, “whose distinguished career was
not —by me at any rate —foreseen,” who
described her as “a simple, honest little
person” ; and one Jack Medley—“last
heard of as Vice-Chancellor of the Mel-
bourne University.”
But none of these personal touches, or
such news as
I never very seriously “played the Navy,”
which is called “albatrossing,” because '
albatrosses follow the Fleet,
is as worth-while as the record of the
then Mrs. Gibbs’s sojourns in Melbourne,
with its description of life at Mandeville
Hall, the high-class Melbourne boarding-
house where they paid thirteen guineas a
week (“Maurice’s salary had been raised
to three hundred a year”), of a stay with
Melba, and of the life of the common
people; or the record of life in
land, where her husband, evidently a
scion of an English company with huge
interests in Australia, was sent by his
employers to try to lose a very bad cough,
first at Amby, where they rode twelve
miles across their own property to repay
a settler’s call; then at Ingleby, not so
isolated and stocked with pheasants.
Later they made a 4000-mile drive
through Queensland “west almost to the
Territory border, north almost to the
Gulf of Carpentaria,” in a car which gave
trouble most of the way and then ran
into a stump and gashed Mrs. Gibbs’s
face so that the doctor to whom they got
her a day or so later had to put six
stitches in it —the account of the drive
is perhaps the best, part of the book.
Towards the end, moving to South Aus-
tralia, it gets a little sad and a little bitter,
explaining how this first marriage broke
up, seemingly because Mrs. Gibbs wanted
to become an authoress ; and there is an
account of the death of her father,
famous, a distinguished soldier, one of
the best-looking men of his time, exiled
from British society, dying at 81 a laird
on his Scottish estate: —
No one will ever know the truth about
the Baccarat Case, whether my father did
or did not cheat at cards while playing at
Tranby Croft.
As The Bulletin said of Mrs. Napier’s
early effort, this autobiography is “good
of its kind,” and seeing that a little room
has been found for it this time, it may
be inferred that the author is almost an-
other contributor who has made good, or,
at any rate, “shows promise.”
Your Old ABC.
Our alphabet is so simple that a child
can use it; it is handsome enough to have
persuaded Miss Rosemary Dobson ton
work her sorceries upon it (B. 14/12/’49):
The circumscribed, enchanting sweep
Of G was Goodness, cairn and strong.
Gently it led his eye along
Delicious pastures of the page.
Then, overleaf, before him burned
The winged and serifed letter H
And Heaven was his to have and hold—
Oh missal wrought in holy gold
It is wicked enough to have spelled out
the Bank Nationalisation Act —but how
surprising to find that we have been
writing Phoenician ail our lives and not
known it!
For this information we are indebted
to Mr. Oscar Ogg in The 26 Letters
(Harrap), a beautifully-printed and pro-
fusely-illustrated history of writing and
printing which, the cover says, “covers the
whole field from A to Z” ; and, with the
reservation that it is a work for the
general reader, or even for the bright
child, and not for the specialist, it must
be admitted that it does go the whole
Ogg.
In one important point Mr. Ogg dist-
agrees with Miss Dobson. Her poem
concludes—
Ere there was beast or fish or bird,
Before the Voice of Man was heard;
In the Beginning was the Word —
a statement on which many authorities
support her, from the Authorised Version
to Mr. T. S. Eliot. But Mr. Ogg seems
not to have heard of this theory, for in
Mr. Ogg’s beginning, nay, in the first
sentence of his preface, we have —
People have always wondered about the
letters of the alphabet and where they
came from,
and he mentions briefly the claims of the
Chinese that their alphabet was invented
by a four-eyed gentleman called Ts’ang
Chien, in imitation of the footprints of
birds, and of the Indians that their
alphabet was derived by Brahma from
the seams of the human skull, etc.; then,
putting aside these legendary fantasies, he
begins upon the scientific fantasies about
the Reindeer men, 35,000 years ago;
those cavemen Unk White’s, or maybe
Unk Black’s, who carved so eloquently in
line on rock for the editors of the
Altamira “Bulletin” ; and he even presents
a series of modern cavemen drawings to
show how a caveman artist “might have
‘written’ a whole story of a hunting trip.”
And so, after a consideration of the
picture-writing of various of the world’s
citizens —in which Mr. Ogg advances the
theory that the symbol for woman plus
the symbol for son equals the symbol for
love —he speaks of how, in Egypt, a
drawing of an eagle first meant eagle;
then, given a human face, meant soul;
then, still looking like an eagle, it meant
the letter A ; then, the picture simplified
to a symbol, became A : —
Their writing went through the five main
steps we have seen pictures take: (1) thing-
pictures; (2) idea-pictures; (3) word-sound
pictures; (4) syllable-sound pictures and
(5) letter-sound pictures —and retained a
little of them all, plus an explanatory
symbol or two for each word. The true
alphabet uses only letter-sound pictures.
The chapter which follows, on
ẁ


r.
A
- >;■.
W
Style 3
Siy/e 2
S/y/e
. . ■ • ■■■■; •
V'V'V.
iL.Vv/-.':
t a.: «- %
hJ.
•*• ■ ,
•>
, x ;'^
jsps
-.■. -•-,•• :
tyf ■•.-■>'•
IK® * '»> : , /; ~
WWL* ' ; ■ -
# m v
. - -x
|
# ;•:
v *
v i
•t:
.-■ ?. g y
St " '•■ v *
> X- > *?..-
« ■/ '
- f ,-
ay
b' V/' '4**
■
>*•
\:‘-
*<- - #■!
■ 4
V? v ./-••
-f t-s " ■
f ,
HI
v
® s *< .- j
>
;3
1* J
\>rr
xfcc
V.
0*
V ; ’ - *
t- ' .
» ; *>
"v
•> ** '•>
.-* *•:
. X
/ **
* :
•rs/? : j c.^m
"V* 1 -1 iv“ */> ', *<*
; y. ■ ■'.•■:■■
:'7>>\ .v ■• *-
H
r:
it ”'...
»S
Vi”
■ ■ •
is
/ -•
Wm
*’»
-- ■>
'v ;:
v>
>.J
V-.J
<
; '■
7/
m
mm?* *
■’
npP^Tc
m-: ■:.'. ,' - V
m
•v
x\ jA>
C-v.:^
iyj * *»*..yr.......
"■ s ' --J.'
*.itn'S£
*£
: ■ * ->
m
i #1
&
7;;
■ ' x -•■ ■ '■■ ■s : - : ~
■«
y£Li£
> “ *
..: : ;- : v
aJC.
“TRUTH ®IN ADVERTISING”
★*★★***★★★★★★★★*★★***★★★*★★**************
Famous "Marshall” custom-built shoes
In f««r new styles at
Style I. Tan or Black super grade Calf leather is used in the
“Balfour” last style. In extra wide fittings, full and half sizes. 52/6
\
Style 2, Tan or Black super grade Calf' in the “Byron” style.
This is a neat, extended shape with punched vamp and cap. 52/6
Style 3. In Black or Brown Calf, they are made in the “Chester”
last with neat swing toe. Medium fittings, full and half sizes. 52/6
Style 4. “King EE” last in Black or Brown Calf, Oxford style
Shoes. In medium fittings, available in full and half sizes, price, 52/6
Style
■— ■
m
m
T*
m
V >
V
*■
&L*.
4'-
> * >
Mi
*
«■*-
nm
zmt
AwJlisJaLjf
> ' ; '•' AS "Tr '’ • -J’ *• ' ' "r'''' ' , V. ,• .'■.:Vy V/ '-V ’ .'* ■,'( -V>" A- ■'
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ MEN’S SHOES GROUND FLOOR,
GEORGE STREET. M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE BISMARCK CHALLENGE
BY "MACNELL"
TO the British Navy the Bismarck
hunt was much more than a reduc-
tion of the enemy’s Navy ; it was as
near-perfect a model of every phase
of naval warfare as can be achieved out-
side of an exercise-planning room.
There were initial reconnaissance; dis-
positions of the Fleet, from points
hundreds of miles apart; a heavy-ship
engagement, in which the enemy proved
superior; a long, hard chase, involving
visual, radar and air-reconnaissance ; and
the final bringing to action, with destroyer
attacks, torpedo-attacks from carriers, the
big ships themselves at grips, and a
cruiser-torpedoing to clinch the operation.
Then, on the way home, U-boats and
enemy air-strikes were met and repulsed.
BISMARCK, whose fight the British
admiral who fought it to a gallant
conclusion described as “worthy of the
traditions of the old Imperial German
Navy,” was a beautiful brute of a ship.
Long, low and heavy, her innards were
extensively compartmented for water-
tightness, and her beam had no Suez-
passage limits imposed on it. Super-
heated steam turbines drove her 35,000
tons of armored steel at 28 knots. Three
huge, squat turrets plated with thick slabs
of super-hardened steel housed her nine
15in. guns, each hurling a one-ton pro-
jectile. Above the turrets her super-
structure bridges, control - towers,
gunnery-directors—reared in massy and
steel-hardened strength, a great cliff of
steel above the fo’c’sle.
Down her stretching length were nests
of secondary and anti-aircraft weapons,
and, high above the bridge, clear of funnel
and gun smoke, and in each turret, their
magnified eyes peering from armored
sockets, were the excellent stereoscopic
rangefinders which made German naval
gunnery in pre-radar-control days equal,
if not superior, to that of the Royal Navy.
| N the second week of May, 1941, it was
t reported to Admiral Sir John Tovey,
K.C.8., D. 5.0., C.-in-C. Home Fleet,
who, in battleship King George V,
commanded the coming operation,
that German reconnaissance was un-
usually active between Jan Mayen
Island and Greenland. He deduced its
purpose was either to determine the ice-
limits for an attack on Jan Mayen Island,
or to assist a shjp to break in or out of
the North Sea, through Denmark Strait,
between Greenland and Iceland.
Accordingly, eight-inch cruiser Suffolk,
already on patrol in the area, was ordered
to keep special watch on the passage;
Rear-Admiral Commanding Ist Cruiser
Squadron sailed in cruiser Norfolk from
Hvalfiord in Iceland to relieve Suffolk to
fuel, so that both ships would be topped-
up for an emergency.
Then, with the report on May 21 of 11
merchantmen and two heavily-screened
large warships (Bismarck and eight-
incher Prince Eugen) entering Bergen, in
Norway, battlecruiser Hood, wearing the
flag of Lancelot Holland, Vice-Admiral
Commanding Battlecruiser Squadron,
Prince of Wales, Captain John
Leach, who had her in the Malayan
disaster, and six destroyers, including
gallant little Electra, of later Java Sea
fame left Scapa Flow in the Orkneys for
Hvalfiord.
King George V (Captain Wilfrid Pat-
terson, who commanded cruiser Aus-
tralia out here on exchange duty in 1936),
four cruisers and three destroyers, among
them Australian Nestor, were brought to
short notice at Scapa; and sailing of
battlecruiser Repulse and carrier Vic-
torious in an Atlantic convoy was can-
celled, and both ships were retained at
Scapa at the disposal of the C.-in-C.
Before the first action is joined, the
writer would like to point out that because
of space Unfits, and to save confusion,
movements of many ships concerned with
the hunt cannot be detailed —Repulse, for
instance, which was detached to fuel be-
fore coming to grips; several submarines
routed north ; battleship RamilUes, which
did not sight Bismarck; the scores of
sorties flown by Coastal Command —and
he will concern the reader only with those
ships and aircraft which directly con-
tacted the enemy.
AN uncommonly gaUant sortie over
Bergen in a naval Maryland aircraft
pn May 22, through low fog and a box-
barrage of a.-a. fire, reported that both
warships had sailed. The C.-in-C. in King
George V, with Victorious and three
destroyers of Western Approaches, sailed
for Denmark Strait, 45 minutes after
Tovey had received his aircraft’s report.
Hood and Prince of Wales, further north,
were closing at high speed, urged to full
thrust by the wirelessed knowledge that,
sniffing round the ice-edge in Denmark
Strait, Suffolk had turned s,-w. to repeat
her patrol and had sighted through the
mist the black bulk of Bismarck and
Prince Eugen.
Suffolk owed her life to that mist. She
nipped back into it and tracked the
quarry round the minefield edge With her
radar. Then Norfolk, over towards Ice-
land, sighted Bismarck. Before she could
make smoke the battler whipped a few
salvos at her at six-miles range that
showered her with splinters. Norfolk
scuttled behind her smoke-screen and
both ships hung warily on the other’s
quarter, ready at a moment to turn and
run, Suffolk to started in radar range of
the icefield so that Bismarck could not
slip back that way, Norfolk to port
covering a break to the south. Both ships,
of course, could have been blown out of
the water by a broadside from the foe
they were tailing.
Hood and Prince of Wales came up in
darkness. They exchanged information
with the British cruisers and set a course
parallel to Bismarck till daylight. At 3.40
in the raw morning both British heavies,
steaming at 28 knots, altered in to make
contact.
They sighted Bismarck at 5.35, steering
to close the range. All three ships opened
fire simultaneously at 0553, at
range. Both JHood and Bismarck were
doing excellent shooting, and both scored
hits at once. Bismarck’s second salvo
started a rapidly-spreading blaze near
one of Hood’s 4in. mountings, and a brief
fire showed aboard the Britisher’s target.
No one aboard the battlecruiser, in the
f eager flush of action, could dream they
had only minutes left to live and fight.
TWELVE miles across the tumbling sea
the huge shell in its cradle came
screaming up the hoist from Bismarck’s
shell-room, the great gun drew back in
recoil, like a waking animal, from the
preceding broadside, there was a
“whoosh” of compressed air blowing out
burning debris as the breech opened, the
powerful rammer drove in the shell, the
breech slammed, the elevation-pointer
traversed its dial, a trigger was pressed,
the huge breech recoiled and hurled the
projectile which half a minute later was
to sink a battlecruiser worth millions,
doom 1500 men, make widows of half
as many women and render fatherless
their children.
The shell plunged from the clouds, and
its armor-capped nose struck Hood’s
upper-deck between the funnel and main-
mast. In that fraction of time a tiny
needle in its base was shocked forward
over the retarding effect of its spring and
pierced the detonator waiting beneath it.
The detonator blew, a fuse burned, and
in the thousandth of a second the shell
took to bore its way into Hood’s magazine
the flame reached the shell’s disruptive
charge. Hundreds of tons of cordite and
hundreds of shells in the room beside it
released their frightful energy in an
instantaneous blast that burst the huge
ship open to the sea.
A vast writhing smoke-pall shot with
red flame mounted to the sky, and the
thunder of the explosion crashed across
the sea. When its echoes beat away to
silence, the water under the tombstone
of smoke was empty. An 800 ft. battle-
cruiser, 44,600 tons of armor, guns and
equipment, had resolved into slivers sink-
ing to the bottom: and within seven
minutes of the action opening. Three
of her company were picked up alive.
The hit was not just a “lucky” one, as
is generally supposed. If Hood’s armor
meant nothing to Bismarck’s shells, fired
with the dropping trajectory of long
range, then the length of the battlecruiser
—four turret magazines, torpedo-warhead
and secondary armament magazines,
small-arms magazines, and vital engine-
and boiler-rooms, with superheated steam
under explosive pressure —all were open
to entry. It would have been difficult to
miss a vital space. Hood was sunk by
first-class gunnery, an efficiently-designed
shell, and insufficient armor to protect her
against its improved modem striking
force
FROM high in Bismarck’s control-
tower the order went to the turrets.
“Shift target!”
Guns, rangefinders and binoculars
slewed round to Prince of Wales.
The great guns sniffed up and down,
then belched. A storm of high explosive
burst on the British ship, smashing her
bridge and killing or wounding nearly
everyone on it. Below waterline aft a
hole was blown in her side, and shortly
she had 400 tons of sea-water inside her.
The plane on its catapult was shredded
and one of her four-gun turrets was
jammed out of action, as were two
secondary-armament directors. She had
been hit with four 15 m. shells from Bis-
marck and three Sin. from Prince Eugen,
firing ahead of her consort.
In return, Suffolk reported that salvos
from Prince of Wales were falling far
short, with a large spread. Captain Leach
wisely made smoke and broke off the
action. If he had continued it, it is
almost certain Bismarck would have sent
him after Hood.
Prince of Wales was a green ship. She
had just commissioned, her last turret, of
unfamiliar design and subject still to
teething troubles, had been fitted late the
month before, her crew were far from
fully trained, and this was her first ser-
vice operation. The Germans, on the
other hand, were at the peak of efficiency,
having had months of working up in ideal
Baltic conditions. But had Captain
Leach not been assured of heavy rein-
forcements racing to support him Bis-
marck no doubt would have been fought
to a finish.
ALL day on May 24, south-west at 24
knots, Bismarck, wounded and bleed-
ing oil from Hood’s attack, trailed the
hunt astern, Prince of Wales, Norfolk and
Suffolk, the latter’s electronic fingers in
constant echoing contact with the big
ship’s hull.
It is time to have a look at the re-
maining dispositions. Admiral Tovey, in
King George V, with Victorious,
was plunging through the smoking
seas at 27 knots due south of
Iceland, steering nearly west to
bar Bismarck, in case she heard of this
approaching force, from breaking back
to the north. The German ships were
hugging the coast of Greenland, and
Tovey feared that they would slip round
Cape Farewell and into the emptiness of
the Atlantic, where no doubt tankers
were awaiting them. Thus a report from
the shadowers that Bismarck had altered
course to due south was a relief to Tovey,
even though she might be leading them
into a nest of U-boats; but her speed
might still beat him, so he detached Vic-
torious, with four destroyers, to slant
across to the s.-w., get within 100 miles
of Bismarck and stop her with torpedo-
bombers.
Battleship Rodney was racing from
above Ireland; Ramillies, up from the
south, was well over to westward to bar
passage there ; and battlecruiser Renown
(Vice-Admiral Sir James Somerville) with
carrier Ark Royal, the famous Force
“H” from Gibraltar, was steaming north-
wards to close the gate eastward to
Brest.
CARRIER Victorious was as green as
Prince of Wales, She had had a
week’s working-up (insufficient even for
her new company to find their way round
her vast innards) and was about to sail
for Malta with Hurricanes when the call
came. Swordfish and Fulmar fighters were
hurriedly shipped; and at 10 p.m. on
the night of May 24 found themselves
above their mother-ship, forming up for
the fight of their obsolete lives. I
The weather was showery and squally,
with Victorious’s flightdeck washed by
head-on seas, and the sun, in this northern
night, set at 1 a.m. Bismarck was about
120 miles to the westward.
The nine Swordfish carried search-
radar, and a contact made at 11.30 p.m.
swung them wide in a circle to attack
from ahead. But in heavy cloud contact
was lost, and they broke cover over Prince
of Wales and Norfolk, who immediately
obliged with a course and distance to
Bismarck, The next radar contact
brought them down —over a lonely little
U.S. coastguard cutter, which, consider-
ing what had just passed her, preferred
to remain lonely.
But the object of their bombs was a
bare six miles off, and her reaction on
sighting them was angry and immediate.
She opened with long-range a.-a. shots
that swelled into a rippling sheet of
flame down her length as the bombers
flew into barrage-range. Tracer flowed
from her nests of close-range weapons
like red stitches in a graceful arch.
It seemed nothing could float in that
shell-and-bullet-filled air; but the gal-
lant old biplanes bore in, straightened up,
let go and clambered over the German’s
bulk. One pressed almost to the mouths
of the flaring guns and slid his explosive
load into her wall-like side. He was
hardly clear before a forest of water was
hurled up below him and even Bismarck’s
weight quivered under the blow.
That single hit by a wood-and-fabnc
old plane, added to the wound Hood had
given her, was responsible for Bismarck
being tracked down and killed. It
decided Admiral Lutjens to head for
Brest, and, unwittingly, on to the guns
of the ships converging to stop him.
PRINCE OF WALES and both cruisers
continued to shadow, and the course
lay still southward. The hunt relied on
Suffolk’s radar in the stormy blackness.
It had proved completely reliable; and
the overconfidence that it engendered
proved disastrous. Suffolk was zig-
zagging, against U-boats, and on the out-
ward leg her radar contact stretched
to the limits of its range. At this point,
about 4 a.m., Bismarck altered course
away, to port, and no effort by Suffolk s
radar-operators could fasten their elec-
tronic fingers on her again. Unknown to
the British, Prince Eugen had parted com-
pany hours before. She finally made
C Continued on page 32.)


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3648
Wednesday, January 11, 1950
/•SsASESt-
/x —^
sgon/ffiey*
“I WONDER IF THAT’S OUR CUE, STAFFORD?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
KEEPING OUT OF ASIA.
Mr. Spender lost no time in announcing
his foreign policy. The principal
axioms in the new Minister’s statement
are that “the vast and far-reaching events
of the last ten years have led to a shift
of the centre of gravity of world affairs
-—at least for the time being—from the
Atlantic to the Pacific” ; that “Australia
is next-door to Asia, and our destiny is
irrevocably conditioned by what takes
place in Asia.” Also, that this means
“that our future depends to an ever-
increasing degree upon the political
stability of our Asian neighbors, upon
the economic well-being of the Asian
peoples, upon the development of under-
standing and friendly relations between
Australia and Asia,” and, of course, upon
the recognition of “the rising and
menacing tide of Communism in Asia,
which presents us with a definite threat —
and not a remote threat, either —to our
national existence.” But he says that “the
threat is also a challenge,” and “Aus-
tralia must develop a dynamic policy to-
wards neighboring Asia, whose peoples
we must live with, and should give
leadership to development of that area.”
While this policy, Mr. Spender con-
tinues, “in no way implies a lack of
recognition of the extreme importance
the Government attaches to our continued
association with the British Common-
wealth, which must be made stronger,
not weaker, we should not forget how
much our security depended in the past
on the United States, the greatest Pacific
Power.”
He concludes:
Australia and the United States are the
two countries which can, in co-operation
with one another, make the greatest con-
tribution to stability and democratic
development of the countries of South-East
Asia.
There are few who would agree that
the centre of gravity of world affairs has
moved from the Atlantic to the Pacific
even temporarily. No great Power sub-
scribes to that theory. The United States
certainly does not, otherwise it would
not have joined the Atlantic Pact and
withdrawn the main strength of its naval
forces from the Pacific to its east coast.
Russia does not. Though proximity of
Asian countries which are being riddled
with Communism brings, events in them
more closely under the notice of Aus-
tralia, the main Russian effort is still
primarily in Europe, and the greatest
Russian forces are still in Europe. While,
even in China, the Communists have only
as yet achieved an infiltration, the whole
of Eastern Europe with any resources
has been flung behind the Iron Curtain,
half Germany has been captured and is
being Communised and armed to defend
its position. And the world’s main de-
fences against the onslaught of Commun-
ism have been erected in Europe and in
North America.
Next, Mr. Spender’s belief that our
destiny is irrevocably conditioned by
what takes place in Asia and that our
future depends in an increasing degree on
the political stability of our Eastern
neighbors and upon the economic well-
being of Asian peoples is open to some
question. *
Asia has been unstable ever since Aus-
tralia has existed as a country, but all
the great reactions upon our prosperity
and security have so far come from other
continents. While the British Empire
was a strong entity with control of the
world’s key resources we had nothing to
fear from Asia. It was only when
Britain was weakened that the Dominions
became weakened. And so long as the
dominating air-power and sea-power re-
main in the hands of the English-speaking
peoples and their Western European
Allies, as they do today, the centre of
gravity of the world must lie in their
centres of production and not with the
seething masses of Asia, which are at
[present, and will be for years, incapable
of overseas aggression far beyond their
own borders. The loss of Britain’s in-
dustrial war potential would be an irre-
trievable disaster ; the temporary capture
of China by Communists is not.
The challenge of Communism in Asia
which Mr. Spender mentions is not an
Asian challenge at all. The theory that
peace is indivisible is a Communist
theory, the corollary to which is one that
revolution is also indivisible, as is clearly
set out in the works of Lenin and Stalin
—just as clearly as that Moscow is the
central powerhouse of Communism and
that Europe is the key to world conquest
as the moral and spiritual pivot of civi-
lisation, something which' it has not
ceased to be even as a result of the quick
growth under war-time conditions of
United States industrial and financial
strength.
No “dynamic policy” on the part of
Australia, with its 8,000,000 people, can
affect the future and stability of Asia to
any great degree, and the idea of this
country, whose only safety lies in keep-
ing away from embroilment in Asiatic
mainland countries, should give leader-
ship to the two Indias with their
400,000,000 people, is about as little valid
as that we can have any real effect on
the economy of the 1,000,000,000-odd
people who inhabit the world’s greatest
continent.
The belief that Australia and the
United States are the two countries
which can “make the greatest contribu-
tion to stability and democratic develop-
ment of the countries of South-east
Asia” may warm the ego of an Australian
Foreign Minister, but it has little basis
in fact or probability. It is an insular
theory based firstly on the assumption
that Britain’s day is done, whereas
British influence underneath is a very
real thing, in India especially. British
control of trade-routes has not yet been
liquidated, and British statesmanship,
despite the Socialist interregnum, is far
from dead. Mr. Spender’s view excludes
belief in the influence of Canada and of
the South American republics, something
which is very far from reality.
There can only be one policy for Aus-
tralia, and that is the one which was
maintained before the war. It should be
based on a rigid practice of minding our
own business and expecting others to
mind theirs. Its first tenet should be that
we have enough to concern us in our
own domestic policy and the develop-
ment of our own democracy without try-
ing to instruct others in something which
we have not yet learned effectively our-
selves. It should continue to work for
the maintenance of Australia as a white
Commonwealth, a part of a strong
British Commonwealth which can speak
on main principles, and particularly on
matters of defence, with one voice, with
a pledge of one-in-all-in in case of attack.
And it should recognise that Australia is
an exporting country to which trade re-
lations are a primary consideration and
that the less diplomacy and busybodying
has to be mixed up with them the better
it will be for us and for posterity.
In fact, basically, Australian policy
might well be founded on the geographi-
cal fact that this country is a continent,
not merely an island that is part of the
sphere of another continent with which
it has little or nothing in common as to
conditions or ideals. Its problems are
those of a new country with, as yet, too
few people and too-little-developed re-
sources for self-preservation. Those of
Asia are, except for Russia, the problems
of overcrowded countries which cannot
feed their people. Their difficulties call
for a viewpoint diametrically opposed to
those of Australia. Their standards are
something entirely foreign in every
respect, including standards of religion
and of social life, from those of Aus-
tralia.
So far as our safety goes, that depends
on our adhesion not to Southern Asia but
to the great English-speaking nations as
a whole under a concept which agrees
that our resources—and theirs —will be
applied for common protection. This is
the essence of the Atlantic Pact and the
Western Defences schemes from which
Australia so far has stood aloof.
No time should be lost in associating
this country with the plans for world de-
fence in which other countries peopled
by Europeans and sharing our ideals and
particular type of civilisation are in-
volved.
Agreement with newly-born Eastern
peoples on a common plan of action to
stem the tide of Communism throughout
the world would be a healthy develop-
ment, which it is to be hoped will arise
from the Colombo conference. And that
every effort should be made to develop
trade with southern Asian countries on
a basis of mutual friendship goes without
saying.
But that we should acknowledge Aus-
tralia to be part of the Asian zone and
attempt to assume leadership there is a
proposal almost too alarming for words.
It would involve us in some quarters in
quarrels and issues with which we have
no concern whatever. And if we lay it
down that we are justified in interfering
with internal Asian politics we at once
inferentially admit the right of Asian
countries, which include Russia and
Japan, to interfere in our own.
Fattened for the Kill?
Under a process that gives even calcu-
lating-machines a headache, the counting
and distribution of votes for the Senate
may be finished this week. Over a
month has already been spent on the
business. That is one feature of the late
Chifley Government’s new Senate-election
legislation—P.R., proportional representa-
tion, or purely recondite.
It is not the only bad feature. P.R.
would not work satisfactorily for the
N.S.W. Legislative Assembly 25 years
ago ; and though the electors of the Apple
Isle cling to it with an affection whose
origin is wrapped in the mists of legend,
even there it wrought such confusion
in one emergency that the Tasmanian
Assembly had temporarily to increase its
numbers from 30 to 31 in order to defeat
a dead-heat between the parties.
Apparently the better P.R. works the
less workable is the Parliament which it
produces.
In the present stage of party conflict
a close division of the electorate might
easily return a Senate divided 30-30 and
thereby present a constant nuisance to a
Government of either party in the Lower
House. Casual vacancies can be filled
only by revision of the last election’s
already well-thumbed voting-papers in
order to discover the next-preferred
among the previously failed candidates;
and if the death of some Senator should
result in the calling-up of one belonging
to a different party, P.R. would reveal
itself conclusively as something altogether
too bright and good for politicians’ daily
food.
P.R., now tried out in Canberra for
the first time, is a clean swing to the
other extreme from a system of vote-
counting that created landslides against
one side or the other. The voter notices
no change. He (or she) nas still merely
to write numbers from one onwards
against every name on the voting-paper,
a job which, even with the aid of how-
to-vote cards from the rival parties, was
last month beyond the competence of
about one elector in ten. What the
revised method of allotting the preference
votes did was to diminish to the finest
value the effect of a majority vote, where
formerly a slight majority could entirely
eliminate the other side. But the danger
of an equally-divided Senate is thereby
introduced, and the difficulties of work-
ing a Constitution where conflict con-
stantly arises between Federal powers and
those of the States are serious enough
without thus adding to them.
Whatever may be said against the in-
equities of the past, the installation of this
P.R. system was nothing but a party de-
vice for sealing the present Senate against
any change against “Labor” in popular
feeling to be evinced at the 1949 elections.
Mr. Calwell was quite explicit on this
point. He told an A.L.P. “country con-
ference” .12 months ago that under the
new arrangement:
At the elections this year, even if
“Labor” were to lose command of the
Lower House, it must have a majority in
the Senate even if it lost every possible
That means that the Opposition [being
elected to power by the people] will not
be able to repeal any Acts such as the
Bank Act....or change the taxation inci-
dence.
if “Labor” is elected this year it will he
in till about 1960.
But the introduction of P.R. to apply
to only portion of the Senate is not the
only objection to this brain-child of the
late Attorney-General. Dr. Evatt was
well warned at the time, especially by
The Bulletin, that his Representation
Act was probably ultra vires the Consti-
tution in its device for election of a
larger Senate without a double-dissolu-
tion. The problem involved in the
Socialist scheme to retain power in the
Senate was to keep the non-retiring half
(18 members) of the old Senate (Socialist
majority 15 to three) and at the same
time enlarge the full Senate from 36 to
60. Since P.R. could be relied upon to
produce roughly equal numbers for both
sides in a closely divided electorate,
“Labor” could count, at the worst, on
obtaining nearly half of the 42 seats to
be filled at the elections. But the Govern-
ment also had to arrange—if it could —
such a differentiation in the value of
certain of the new seats 'that at the next
normal elections, three years hence, half
the new Senate seats, 30 in number, would
fall vacant as the Constitution requires—
the 18 which were not for contest in 1949
and 12 of the new ones.
Accordingly the plan put up by Dr.
Evatf, as the Chifley Government’s con-
stitutional adviser, provided that, of the
42 new Senators, 18 (three in each State)
should be chosen to sit for six years,
taking their seats on July 1; 12 (two from
each State) to sit for six years, taking
their seats in February this year; and
12 (two from each State) to sit for three
years, also taking their seats in February.
Since under the Constitution each
Senator begins his term on the first day
of July next following the elections which
returned him, it seems that either some
of these new Senators will not be able
to sit till July, or that Senate business
must be held up altogether for four
months. There is nothing in the Consti-
tution to permit some Senators to sit for
six years 4i months, and others for three
years 4\ months. The Constitution de-
clares that “Senators shall be chosen for
six years” (Clause 7) and that “the places
of the Senators,... .shall become vacant
at the expiration of six years from the
beginning of their term of service,”
(Clause 13.)
It niay be that Clause 14, dealing with
the event of representation of the State
being increased or diminished, saves the
new three-year Senators; but this paper
still asks, as it did while Parliament was
still debating the Bill, whether these 24
Senators can legally take their seats next
month when Parliament meets, and
whether, if the Senate meets before next
July, it can be challenged as illegally
constituted?
It is not as though Dr. Evatt was with-
out precedent to guide him. Sd strictly
was the Constitution interpreted in 1906
that when, because of the unexpectedly
late meeting of the first Parliament (May,
1901) —the Constitution having provided
that the first Senators’ terms should begin
on January I—it became necessary to
alter that date to July 1, there had to be
a referendum (which was carried) to pro-
vide for the extension of Senators’ six-
year terms by six months.
But why, after all, should these con-
siderations have weighed with the modern
“Labor” party? The Socialists don’t
want to reform the Senate; they are
pledged to abolish it. They don’t worry
about the botch they have made of it;
the more illegal the Senate is made to
appear the better they are pleased. If
“Labor” had so wished it could have
sought by referendum a Constitutional
alteration to keep the Senate to its present
numbers. Instead, it looks as though the
idea was rather to fatten up the Senate
for the kill.
The absurdity is now reached whereby
Tasmania returns to Canberra twice as
many Senators as Representatives,
whereas the Constitution requires the full
numbers of the two Houses to be in
exactly the opposite ratio. Under the
United States model which our Federal
Constitution followed each State elects
only two Senators. Australia could get
closer to that example and would have a
better Senate if several new States were
carved out of Queensland and N.S.W.
Empty North Queensland.
A main topic of discussion at the N.Q.
Local Authorities Association conference
at Tully last week was the drift of popu-
lation from N.Q. to the south and how
to stop it.
Mayor Delamothe, of Bowen, told the
conference that N.Q. was losing 1000
people a year of its natural increase, and
he wants councils to seek out and examine
the reasons for it. Townsville’s Mayor,
Gill, said tens of thousands of acres were
idle in N.Q. and “something be
done to induce people to settle here.”
This sort of thing has been said over
and over again for the past 50 years and
may be said for the next 50 without cor-
recting the position. The plain truth is
that Australians are steadily deteriorating
into an urban people, and, so long as
present conditions remain, nothing is
likely to change them. It is only when
overcrowded cities begin to go short of
work and tucker that their people start
to look for new horizons.
All the same, depopulation of N.Q. is
a serious national matter, and it’s a good
thing somebody is aware of it. But it
North Queenslanders believe they can
persuade the Governments in Brisbane or
Canberra to wave a magic wand or some-
thing and start filling up N.Q. with people
they’re on the wrong track.
N.Q.’s best hope is to persuade its own
inhabitants to cut adrift from Brisbane,
set up their own North Queensland Mate,
send Representatives and Senators to
Canberra, and begin to develop their area
with whatever brains and capital they
have and can attract from outside. No-
body south of a line from Bundaberg to
Welford wants to do it for the®*


PLAIN ENGLISH
Making-up of a "Mind."
For nine weeks after the death of knight
Frederick Jordan the McGirr Ministry
was unable to decide who should be the
succeeding Chief Justice of New South
Wales,
During the first half of that period the
Federal elections were on. Apparently the
most incredible Premier N.S.W. has ever
had wasn’t contemplating anything so in-
dependent as the making of this appoint-
ment before those elections were over.
The way he put it was that he wanted a
full Cabinet to make the choice—
it is one which traditionally is made by
the Premier himself—and a couple of his
Ministers were away taking the stump
on the Federal Socialists’ behalf. How
much this excuse was worth was demon-
strated when it was seen that (1) after
the Chifleyites were routed at the elec-
tions another four weeks was allowed to
pass before the appointment was made,
and (2) a couple of Ministers were still
absent from the decisive Cabinet meet-
ing even then.
During that latter period Christmas
happened, and so did a lot of other things.
“Sydney Morning Herald” used up all
the recriminatory language in its dignified
lexicon, including references to the passing
of “more than a hundred years since
there was a comparable delay,” and to
McGirr’s “unique” estimation of urgent
legal necessity. “Granny” was evidently
smouldering with the effort to deny print
to unofficial current reports which held
first-place in the interest of all Phillip-
street and grew less and less restrained
as the idle days passed. From 20 to 30
criminal appeal cases piled up awaiting
hearing: Mr. McGirr went on record a
week before Christmas as saying that, as
the law vacation was about to begin, the
delay did not matter. Upon which
“S. M. Herald” came out with the studied
understatement that “a difference of
opinion is expected when Cabinet eventu-
ally discusses the appointment.”
A difference of opinion expected!
Why, by that time the sound and fury
of the underground work going on was
becoming almost deafening. A citizen of
notorious racecourse interests was re-
ported to be in Sydney, and as soon as
gossip began passing that titbit around
surmises about other influential “heavy
metal” enlivened coffee-house debate.
Names of rival candidates almost spoke
themselves and some papers printed them.
All most reprehensible, of course, but
inevitable with the continued indecision
at McGirr Government headquarters.
Mr. McGirr, alas, was without any
fortification from the late Chifley Gov-
ernment at Canberra, which for three
years pasthadsimplified the process of
making up his mind about anything. And
now, the Federal elections having pro-
duced a distressful extinction of the lime-
light once shed upon the late “sort of
ex-President of the world” (as he de-
scribed himself), even “S. M. Herald”
accepted as authoritative the “mention by
several State Ministers” of “Dr. H. V.
Evatt as a likely candidate.”
With that Mr. McGirr seemed to have
had enough of it. What he was saying
privately about this particular candidature
can only be guessed; but following the
“Herald’s” report of it he came to a
decision and next day his Cabinet “un-
animously” appointed Mr. Justice Street,
who had been Acting-Chief Justice for
two months, and, who, in the circum-
stances, was the proper choice any-
how. But “in view of newspaper state-
ments about Dr. Evatt being considered,”
Mr. McGirr said:
I wish to make public a letter I have
received from the leader of the Federal
Opposition. Mr. Chifley wrote that Dr.
Evatt had said to him he was not available
because of his work in the Federal Parlia-
ment.
Which, as none of those concerned per-
ceived, had much better been left unsaid.
A Big Stick in Rickie.
When Healy and Roach, of the Water-
siders’ Federation 'executive, were im-
prisoned for contempt of court during
the coal strike in the middle of last year
they were released on “purging their
contempt,” which entailed admission
before the Arbitration Court full bench
that the law of the land must be recog-
nised as overriding their union rules,
when in conflict.
How much that “purging” of them-
selves was worth is now pretty obvious.
But if Healy and Elliott (of the Seamen)
are bent on challenging the Menzies Gov-
ernment they may find contempt of the
Crimes Act no joyous adventure. Clause
30J reads:
(1) If at any time the Governor-General
is of opinion that there exists in Australia
a serious industrial disturbance prejudicing
or threatening trade or commerce with
other countries or among the States, he
may make a Proclamation to that effect,
which Proclamation shall be and remain in
operation for the purposes of this section
until it is revoked.
(2) Any person who during the operation
of such Proclamation takes part in or con-
tinues or incites to, urges, aids, or encour-
ages the taking-part in, or continuance of,
a lockout or strike —
(a) In relation to employment m, or
in connection with, the transport of
goods or the conveyance of passengers
in trade or commerce with other coun-
tries of among the States ; or
(fc) In relation to employment in, or
in connection with, the provision of
any public service by the Common-
wealth or by any department or public
authority under the Commonwealth,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to imprisonment fpr
any period not exceeding one year, and in
addition (if he was not born in Australia)
to deportation by order of the Attorney-
General as provided in this Act
At the time of the coal strike Mr.
Chifley said he could not use the Crimes
Act because that dealt only with a trans-
port strike. It was, in fact, specially
amended some 22 years ago to deal with
just such Communist trouble as that now
threatened again.
Transport Reform.
The Sydney deputation that will seek to
persuade Prime Minister Menzies to
cough up £400,000 a year out of petrol-
tax revenue so that tolls on Sydney
Harbor Bridge can be abolished ought to
be the forerunner of public protests
against the rate of petrol-tax, the use of
the revenue from it for other than the
maintenance and building of roads and
the general State political attitude to-
wards the road-transport industry.
The new Canberra Government has
made Mr. Beale (N.S.W.) Minister for
Transport, and there are several needed
reforms awaiting his attention, first being
to get the dead hand of State railways
from the throat of modern transport.
Among its other arguments before it
was elected, the Menzies Government held
that the Ministry it displaced had
made no real effort to provide the coun-
try with petrol, and promised to change
that if elected on the ground that petrol
was the nation’s life-blood. So it is, and
political historians will recognise petrol’s
part in the defeat of the Socialists.
But it won’t be enough for the new
Government to get more petrol. A
modern Federal Government should look
into the effect on the national life of
State transport-strangulation laws. A
good beginning could be made by find-
ing out just how much these laws abuse
Section 92 of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution, which provides for absolutely
free trade, commerce and intercourse
between the States and is, as a conse-
quence, the keystone of Federation itself.
If Mr. Beale is interested, let him spend
a few weeks on both sides of the borders
of N.S.W., Queensland and Victoria to
see how “absolutely free” inter-State
intercourse has been made by these State-
railway worshippers.
Last year the N.S.W. railways, which
keep on losing money like the rest, only
more so, gathered no less than £500,000
in road taxes from road hauliers, thus
making successful private enterprise pay
for unsuccessful Government enterprise.
Now Mr. Winsor, the N.S.W. Transport
chief, somewhat gleefully announces that
he proposes to “clean up” private road
hauliers who evade the taxes or dare to
travel on the roads without his permis-
sion, seizing private property in the pro-
cess Nobody can be excused for break-
ing a law, however bad it be, but the
Winsor outlook, which is common in all
the State Transport Departments, bodes
ill for a continent whose transport re-
quirements have outgrown its railways.
The Tram-lovers.
“Jumping Jack” loves trams, too:
I read in the daily Press that a trammy in
Southampton, England, cut short his own life’s
cable at the early age of 44 because the local
tramway department had decided to abolish
trams and substitute buses. I feel for the
poor fellow. My father was a Sydney tram-
conductor before me, and early inculcated in
me such a love of the footboard that I decided
after I left school to be a trammy, too. He
went into a decline when the first corridor-type
trams appeared on the streets of Sydney, and
his last words to me were that the departure
of the old steam-trams was bad enough, but
if the jumping-jacks were to go now life could
have no savor for him. I pointed out that
what had upset him was only a token-sign,
and that political pledges to do away with them
within a space of years over which he might
easily summon courage to survive were, after
all, only political promises blooming at the
elections’ brim, and they were nothing more.
It was no use. Though he had had his head
broken twice and a leg three times in mishaps
on the footboard he insisted that this time his
heart was broken; and it was. Had he lived,
his convictions and proven loyalty to the good
old street rolling-stock of his forefathers might
have earned him, before long, promotion to
Transport Commissioner. It is a pity that
neither of us —or Southampton’s Mr. Robinson,
either—thought of the bright idea of wangling
the gift, or even the purchase at bargain
price, from the department of an old tram
and setting it up somewhere as a seaside home.
I shall certainly do that myself when the
advent of modern tramway stock drives me,
also, from the service in disgust, and life can
then roll on as it likes.
These old trams bred a hardy race, and the
one I have my eye on for my home in retire-
ment is that on which my father rode for half
a century, and I in my turn already for half
that period, too. It has suffered more broken
glass than was produced by all the Sydney
((Continued on next page.)
ŵ
wnoh
WOOL.
rrniiO 1 *
WO#
DANGER SEASON.


[For election matter David Adams, Cecil
Mann, J. B. Blair and M. H. Ellis, all of 252
George-street, Sydney, are responsible.]
(6661 E-R
CRAVEN "A"
Their quality and smoothness
is unmistakable
male speeiaUtf io
pievent stfte thtontfs
CARRERAS
LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
lIS
mm
V
milkmen together in the same 50 years; and
it has killed or maimed sixteen drivers, forty
conductors and some hundreds of the general
public, and done enough damage to motor-
vehicles in various collisions to keep all
garages south of the harbor going for 12
months. She was a beaut, and her career is
counted nearly done —but:
Her. life was violent; and the casualties
So thick upon her that Sydney might
stand up
And say to all the world: This was a
Tram!
POLITICAL POINTS
After the joint positions of Lieutenant-
Governor and Chief Justice of N.S.W.
had been vacant for two months —
the longest such gap in the history of
the State —Premier McGirr announced
last Friday that Mr. Justice Street had
been appointed. In the interim a whole
batch of names had been canvassed —
one of the earliest Clive Evatt, one of the
latest brother Bert. This last tip led the
McGirr to quote a letter from Mr. Chifley
saying that the Doc. had told him he
was not available for the post “because
of his work in the Federal party.” A
section of the public is now wondering
whether the ex-Attorney-General would
have got the job had he been available.
So, possibly, is Bert.
The somersault which A.C.T.U.
“moderates” performed six months ago
over Communism was so sudden that
there were fears that they had dislocated
their necks. Apparently this was not so ;
they are somersaulting again. At the time
of the coal strike they echoed the Chifley
line —new to him also—that Communism
was a foreign conspiracy. Now that the
Menzies Government proposes to take
positive action against the foreign con-
spirators by banning them from union
offices the A.C.T.U. is suddenly much
concerned at the threat to the democratic
rights of the foreign conspirators to
control the affairs of trade-unions or to
the democratic rights of trade-unionists
to elect foreign conspirators as their
leaders. If the preceding sentence seems
rather muddled it is no more so than the
thinking of A.C.T.U. leaders on the sub-
ject of Communism,
If A.C.T.U. thinking on Red agents is
muddled the utterances of A.W.U. leaders
is confused or at least confusing. H. O.
Davis, president-elect of the union,
recalled last week that a year ago the
annual convention of his organisation had
decided to ban Communists from office;
the Government’s proposed ban against
Communists holding office in unions
would be in line with that policy. On
the same day Clarrie Fallon, Queensland
State secretary of the A.W.U., was spout-
ing of the foolishness of such a ban and
uttering the usual warnings about sending
the Communists underground.
Australian Communists can always be
relied upon to overplay their hand. At
the present time, with so many woolly-
headed trade-union leaders encouraging
them to think that rank-and-file workers
will regard them as martyrs if Menzies
bans ’em, it would surely seem the wisest
course to soft-pedal industrial stoppages ;
yet the Comrades are using their wharfie
stooges to tie up the shipping industry.
Next to coal shipping offers the greatest
opportunity for hampering recovery,
keeping production down and disrupting
industry. A prolonged wharf strike must
result in workers in other industries being
thrown out of employment, and the history
of the coal strike shows that men who
lose their jobs through Communist action
know well enough whom to blame.
The explanation of this apparent im-
becility of the Australian Communist
party is that the outfit led by Sharkey,
Dixon, Thornton and company is not
Australian and it is not a party. It is
merely a coterie of zealots who take their
orders from the Cominform and carry
out their part of the programme of world
Communism. Cobwebs on the water-
front will not win local Communists any
sympathy when the Government clamps
down on the Red rebels, but idle ships
and jobless men fit in well with Moscow’s
Pacific policy, doubtless explained to
Comrades Thornton and Elliott in words
of one syllable during their visit to
Europe last year.
. Mr. Chifley’s attitude towards any
threatened trouble on the wharves was
that he couldn’t risk a complete tie-up, and
the knowledge of this enabled Healy and
Co. to blackmail the community for
years. The new Government must meet
the present challenge to its authority by
showing the Red disrupters that it means
to govern.
The Attlee Government’s recognition
of Red China on the eve of the opening
of the Ceylon talks and while America
was still chewing things over seems as
clumsy a piece of diplomacy as Bevin,
sick or whole, has ever perpetrated. This
surely was a question which called for
close collaboration with the United States
and the white Dominions, yet Britain’s
leaders chose rather to follow the lead of
India, Pakistan, Ceylon and Burma. The
semi-apologetic remarks of Under-Secre-
tary Mayhew a few hours before the
official announcement seemed to acknow-
ledge this in a shamefaced manner: “If
Britain recognises the Chinese Communist
Government, this will be because it has
become the effective Government of
China, and not because we like its policies
and practices,” The Franco regime is
“the effective Government” of Spain, yet
Britain withdrew its diplomatic represen-
tative from Madrid some time ago.
That African peanut scheme wasn’t a
total failure after all. Someone in Eng-
land with a liking for such calculations
has figured out that the 550 tons harvested
last year provided sufficient oil to keep
the margarine ration going for 14 hours.
One of Labor’s lost legion is Senator
Lamp, of Tasmania, a State which should
have felt grateful to “Labor” for giving
it its present abundant Senate representa-
tion. Senator Lamp was the sleuth who
in 1942 said, under privilege of the
House, that he had passed on
“facts” to the Attorney-General to
justify a search of the house of the
managing-director of The Bulletin for a
secret Japanese wireless-transmitting set.
The Attorney-General apparently was
seven years ahead of the Tasmanian
electors in forming a just opinion of
Senator Lamp. He made no inquiry
whatever about the charge.
The last honor .awarded to a member
of the little-lamented Chifley Government
was a Privy Councillorship which entitles
“poor old Holloway,” Jock Garden’s late
boss, and the promoter of the theory that
Communism is in accordance with the
teachings of Christ, to call himself “Right
Honourable,” wear knee-breeches, a
feathered cocked hat, a gold-braided tail-
coat and a sword. The joke of it is that
P.O.H. was chairman of the conference
of the A.L.P, which put abolition of
appeal to the Privy Council into the
“Labor” platform and that his Melbourne
Trades Hall Council was for years notori-
ous for its strident advocacy of cutting
the painter with Britain on the ground
that England was “more dangerous” to
Australia’s interests than Japan.
A British textile company with
£6,000,000 capital has been looking
around Albury (N.S.W.) in search of a
site on which to build an Australian fac-
tory. They’d hardly hit the place before
a herd of Government officials from
various departments were around them
like flies. If British companies open fac-
tories here it will be to get away from
Government officials.
One day last week Queenslanders
opened Brisbane “Courier-Mail” and read
that more than 10,000 tons of long-awaited
iron and steel products, many for urgent
building, were expected to be loaded on
ships in N.S.W. ports and reach Queens-
land ports by mid-January. Next day
they read of “rolling” strikes on southern
waterfronts, with ship after ship falling
idle. So they went out and sat under a
tree and looked at the ground and thought
thoughts unfit for publication.
Mr. Stott, the secretary of the Aus-
tralian Wheatgrowers’ Federation, had
hardly stated that “an apparent change
of policy in the British Ministry of Food
in the bulk-purchasing of wheat will not
affect Australian sales..... .Britain must
still buy flour for the colonies,” when it
was announced that Adelaide flourmills
had cut down production by 600 tons a
week because the Australian Wheat Board
advised them to. The board said orders
from Britain, India and Ceylon had
fallen off because “the price was too high.”
A report from Coff’s Harbor (N.S.W.)
said that several South Americans who
were being deported were so anxious to
stay here that they dived from their ship
and swam ashore. Probably they’d only
just heard the result of the Federal elec-
tions.
Using the excuse that there isn’t time
for preselection ballots to pick State
Labor candidates for the N.S.W. by-
elections of Concord, Armidale and
Wollongong-Port Kembla on February
11, the bosses of the N.S.W. A.L.P. are
going to pick the candidates themselves.
And the mob will have to vote for them
whether it likes them or not. Nobody
talks more loudly about “democracy”
than McGirr’s crowd.
“S.H.”: Jim Dooley was quite a good
elocutionist; he was trained by Walter
Bentley in Brisbane. This and his Irish
geniality made him an acceptable candi-
date in farming centres before Lithgow
was big enough to stand on its own. He
used to say he thought he was getting
his money easy until forced to listen to
cocky grievances. He had quite a crop
of grievances himself, but said very little
about them.
Complaints came in last week from
back-country N.S.W. that umbrella-grass
was smothering up the homes out there.
Still, it’s nothing to the way the N.S.W.
Housing Commission smothers ’em up
down here. And you can get rid of
umbrella-grass.
The British Socialist Transport Com-
mission has asked the British Socialist
Transport Tribunal to let it charge the
British people an extra £2B million a year
more to use the British Socialist Rail-
ways, supporting the plea with the state-
ment that the railways are likely to
have upwards of £6O million accumulated
deficit since nationalisation. In the years
before Socialism the privately-owned
railways bought their coal from privately-
owned mines for £l2£ million a year;
now both are socialised and the coal bill
is £36 million. No wonder the British
Socialists feel a cold, cold draught blow-
ing their way from the New Zealand
and Australian elections.
One result of Hanlon’s visit to Eng-
land is that his State will have to produce
more sugar. Production hitherto has
never reached a million tons, but if the
600,000 tons to Britain and the 500,000
tons for home consumption each year
after 1952 are to be reached, total pro-
duction will have to jump another 150,000
tons a year.
The guessing competition which was
all the vogue here a few months ago—
trying to pick the date of the general
election —is now raging in Britain; one
paper or another has tipped every month,
if not every week, between February and
August. The majority of the tipsters
incline at present to an early election,
but if Attlee doesn’t make an announce-
ment this week they’ll probably begin
reading the signs and portents all over
again.
The N.S.W. “Shire and Municipal
Record” says that shires and municipal
councils are getting together on the ques-
tion of “financial starvation” of local
government and pleads for co-operation
with the State Governments on the
grounds that “the present issue is too big
to be jeopardised by conflict when the
main orchard is about to be raided.” The
“main orchard” is the Federal Treasury,
which, after such a warning, can’t fail
to double its shotgun guards.
When the N.S.W. Department of Lands
takes over a property for subdivision into
soldiers’ blocks it takes the view that,
until the soldier takes possession, the
land is Crown land and therefore exempt
from shire rates. Illabo Shire lost £4l-
- in this manner on one block, and
the business explains why shire councils
aren’t anxious to see lands in their areas
so subdivided.
Senate figures indicate that first posi-
tion on the ballot-paper still brings the
lucky person or party many bonus votes
from electors who through laziness or
ignorance vote straight down the card
without looking at the names. In the luck
of the draw the major parties broke even
in this respect, “Labor” candidates hold-
ing first position in Queensland and West
Australia and the Lib.-C.P. team in New
South Wales and Tasmania, In South
Australia the People’s Protestant party
were first on the list and in Victoria the
Communists; in both cases “Labor” was
the ultimate gainer in accidental votes, as
their team was listed above the Lib.-C.P.
bunch on the card. In Victoria, with first
place on the ballot-paper, the Communists
polled 3.2 per cent, of the votes cast
against 1.5 in New South Wales and an
average of 1.9 for the whole of Australia.
The difference is probably as good a guide
as will ever be obtained of the proportion
of straight-down-the-card voters.
It’s pretty hard to get it into the heads
of striking and go-slow unionists that
underproduction means higher, costs, so
it seems hardly worth while stating that
in Queensland they have to pay £llO
a ton for imported corrugated-iron
against £52 for Australian iron because
they can’t get the Australian ; they have
also to buy imported water-piping for
houses at anything from two to three
times the price of Australian. Still, some
unionist might see it.
Latest of a long string of “intellectuals”
who admired Communist Russia from a
distance but were disillusioned on closer
acquaintance is the former wife of J. B. S.
Haldane, the English scientist who is one
of the higher-ups in the British Com-
munist party and sits on the editorial
board of the “Daily Worker.” Charlotte
Haldane was a true believer in the Red
creed until she went to Russia as a Press
correspondent in 1941. Like Eugene
Lyons 10 years earlier she was sickened
by what she saw of Communism-in-
practice, and like him she has written a
book telling what she saw and of its
impact on her cherished beliefs. Her
recantation is called Truth Will Out.
It seems that the best cure for Parlor
Pinks is a trip to Russia.


ttxifo
FIRST IN 1888...
FIRST TO-DAY!
NO OTHER BATTERY
CAN MATCH EXIDE'S
61 YEARS' EXPERIENCE
EXiOE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PIT, LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET. SVDtfST
8
PERSONAL ITEMS
Diggers of both wars will present arms
to Eric Millhouse’s new knighthood.
Elected to lead the Federal R.S.L. body
in 1946, Millhouse is a top-flight Adelaide
lawyer, admitted to the Bar in 1915;
there followed a Kaiser-war term as
gunner, ending sergeant with the Eighth
Battery. He was Crown Prosecutor be-
tween 1922-29, and the first Australian
appointed to the Army Legal Department,
a capacity in which many a shark-
harassed Digger will remember him.
Major in World War 11, he served several
terms as State president of the League,
and when not in demand to resolve big
legal issues is likely to be found at the
hopeful end of a fishing-line.
On a six-months’ visit to his native
Maoriland after 23 years’ absence,
Colonel H. G. Grace, of the Honorable
Bodyguard Corps of Gentlemen-at-Arms,
the King’s personal escort on State occa-
sions. Born at Nelson, a son of Arch-
deacon T. S. Grace, he was polished by
Nelson College before leaving for Sand-
hurst in 1903. After wide service in India
and the East, he became political adviser
to the Rajah of Poona, Kashmir, and
also to the heir of the Gaekwar of
Baroda. Later he was attached to the
famous Probyn’s Horse, named after Sir
Dighton Probyn, V.C., of Indian Mutiny
fame. A brother, Alfred Augustus
Grac/r, contributed much to M.L.’s
literary history in Maoriland Stories,
Tales of a Dying Race, Folk Tales of
the Maori and other books, and in the
days of J. F. Archibald was a constant
Bulletin contributor.
Captain E. C, Rhodes, R.A.N. (retired),
new private secretary to Sir John Lava-
rack, Queensland’s Governor, will be a
definite asset to the northern State’s
gubernatorial functions —grey-headed, one
of the politest of men, his tall, well-knit
frame with its blue-water swing was a
distinguished model for the blue-and-
gold uniform of his Service. Doyen, with
Rear-Admiral George Moore, of R.A.N.
officers, Rhodes had been six years with
the British Navy before the college was
opened at Jervis Bay ; with Australia re-
cruiting for its own Service he changed
over to the brand-new R.A.N. His first
Australian ship was cruiser Melbourne,
then, in 1915, with Vice-Admiral Patey’s
West Indies Squadron, and in her he
finished the war. Shortly after Australia
established its own hydrographic depart-
ment in 1921, Lieutenant Rhodes was at
sea surveying in the Geranium. Before
the next war he lived in most ships of
the Australian Squadron, and during it
was Brisbane’s District Naval Officer.
“Fitz”: A year before The Bulletin was
born—its 70th birthday falls at the end of this
month —Hugh Maclean, one of the paper’s
oldest living black-and-white contributors, was
born at Kaiwarra (M.L.). He arrived in Mel-
bourne a boy, and joined Cole’s Book Arcade.
Here, selling artists’ materials, he developed a
liking for sketching. Cartoonist George
Dancey, then at the top of his form with
Melbourne “Punch,” induced Maclean to join
the Melbourne National Gallery Art School.
He also attended an art school conducted by
George Coates, and was elected to the Pre-
historic Order of Cannibals, a club of young
artists. Among its lively members were the
three Lindsays—Percy, Lionel and Norman —
Will Dyson, Max Meldrum and Hugh McCrae.
It was the Cannibal Club period which provided
Norman with his material for A Curate in
Bohemia. For a while Maclean and Alex
Williams, another young artist, collaborated
under the nom de plume “SAA.,” then
Maclean branched out on his own as “Huia”
and began drawing for The Bulletin. Under
Archibald’s persuasion he specialised in draw-
ings of larrikins and children. Later, for 10
years, he was Boxing Editor and cartoonist for
Sydney “Truth,” then he enlisted with the Ist
A.I.F. On his return he took up freelancing
and contributed to The Bulletin, “Smith’s
Weekly” and “Aussie.” An easygoing, genial
fellow with an amazing fund of stories of the
old Bohemian days, he is a perfect mimic—
to hear him bring Henry Lawson to life is a
sheer joy. A man of simple tastes, for years
he lived in a tent at the Sydney seaside suburb
of Collaroy, but lately has taken the shelter of
a roof a little closer in, at Manly.
“Cauboy”: Emil Tannings, ‘Vho has
taken his call at 62 in Vienna, made his
first bow to Australian audiences in that
remarkable silent “Variety,” which
Australian censors made even more re-
markable. A story of circus life, it re-
volved round the love of two women for
one man, one of the women being
Tannings’s mistress. A commonplace in
these days, the situation was then too
much for the censors, and they turned
mistress into sister. As the change in
relationship was merely verbal and the
emotions expressed by all parties re-
mained unaltered, the moral inferences
were worse instead of better. German,
but American-born, Tannings went to
Switzerland as a child and played at the
Gerlitz Theatre, Later he developed into
one of the most brilliant exponents of
Shakspeare, Ibsen, Strindberg, Schiller
and Goethe. He entered the films in 1915
and elevated everything he touched, from
“Madame du Barry” to “The Way of
All Flesh.” His most famous film was
“The Blue Angel,” which raised Marlene
Dietrich overnight to stardom. He was
outed by the talkies, his English not be-
ing good enough for reproduction.
Professor Tohn K. Gifford, new Pro-
fessor of Economics at Queensland Uni-
versity, knows a thing or two of his
subject. For 26 years he’s lectured on it,
and for part of Hitler’s war was Deputy
Director of War Organisation of Indus-
try. A Glasgow University graduate, he
flew with the R.F.C. against the Kaiser
and came to Queensland four years after
Bill gave the game away.
Presented by Heth for the edification of any
of the 80,000-odd young outbackers the subject’s
school has taught since 1918, Walter Finigan,
recently-retired head of Blackfriars Correspon-
dence School, headquartered in Sydney. Before
the Kaiser’s war head of Wilcannia school,
Finigan returned from the savagery of Messines
on crutches. That would have finished a
normal schoolie —but Finigan is a natural
teacher, loves the game, and bucked against
the waste of his healthy brain. So he worked
out a correspondence scheme for country kids,
and launched it in 1918 with 20 pupils. Next
year he had two assistants. When he retired
170 instructors under his co-ordinating hand
were passing 6000 pupils yearly through a com-
plete curriculum, ranging from formation of
the first pothooks to Intermediate standard,
with approval pending for Leaving. Among
the pupils, Peter Evatt (son of Dr. Evatt),
Anderson the V.C.’s children, David Fair-
bairn (elected to the Reps for Farrar) and
Professor O’Neill (Sydney University’s Professor
of Psychology). Through the mailbox Finigan’s
printed papers have flown to Papua and the
Solomons, crossed to Tanganyika, and even
penetrated to Moscow, to the children of the
SCHOLARSHIP-SOWER.
Australian Ambassador. Also nippers travel-
ling in circuses and caravans or isolated in
lighthouses. The scheme (whose value in keep-
ing country kids in the country is obvious)
is as well a tremendous boon to teachers who,
like Finigan, are physically incapable of school-
room teaching. At Blackfriars deafness, loss of
voice or limbs is unimportant while the mind
lives. To these Finigan unreservedly does all
honor. What his staff thinks of him a deaf
teacher once succinctly summed: “I cannot read
your lips,” she said. “You always talk with
a smile.”
Crammed here by Prior into the bell
which took him 70 fathoms down through
the pressured murk of the Pacific to wrest
Niagara’s gold from DJ.’s locker,
Commissioned Shipwright Bill Johnstone
has crammed a whole shelf of adventure
novels into his’ 26 years of diving.
Brother of diver Jack Johnstone, Bill was
loaned by the R.A.N. to the Bank of
England after one German mine had rent
Niagara’s stern open 70 miles off New
Zealand and another, caught as the
bullion-packed craft went under, had
GOLD-GATHERER.
savaged a great gash along her port bilges.
Three tons of blasting gelatine, labor-
iously placed by a giant grab, cut a 30ft.
hole through to the bullion-room, into
which cavern the grab’s jaws, directed by
the divers in their pressure-resisting bell,
groped, and took a rich £34,000-mouthful
at each bite. On the job 12 months, the
divers recovered nearly £2\ million, for
the record low cost of £23,000. Johnstone
nearly met a nasty end when, swung by
a tidal stream, his bell jammed for an
hour in under the ruptured wreckage of
Niagara’s innards. He had as a regular
acquaintance down there a huge hapuka
(groper family), the probing stare of
whose eyes he met whenever he looked
away from his grab. The job finished
(Japan was in by then), Johnstone returned
to Sydney, and did his next diving worm-
ing lifting-slings beneath the bellies of
Jap midget subs, killed in Sydney harbor.
With the change in Government across-
Tasman, the syndicate is thinking about
getting up the remaining £200,000-odd of
Niagara’s hoard. Stocky, frosty-pated
and one of the best dit-spinners the Navy
has listened to since Noah first lectured
on the voyage of the Ark, Johnstone will
be in that, too.
“King’s Pawn”: A fourth generation
in chess is represented by 13-year-old
John Purdy, son of Australian champion
Cecil Purdy, and Anne Purdy, one of the
leading women players. Mrs. Purdy was
a daughter of Spencer Crackenthorp, the
first Australian champion to achieve
really world-wide fame; Spencer’s father
was also a great player. Young John has
entered in the school chess individual
championships in the under-14 division.
In tennis he’s regarded as one of the
State’s promising juniors, but his
enthusiasm for chess is comparatively
recent. Perhaps his dad’s history may
repeat itself. Cecil learnt chess at Cran-
brook School; two years later, while still
at that school, he scored in the N.S.W.
Chess Championships.
On his coming second visit to Aus-
tralia K. P.' MacGillivray, of Bunchrew,
Scotland, will judge Shorthorns at Sydney
Show. In 1938, doing the same job, he
said of the cattle paraded before him,
“Your cattle are as good as you will see
anywhere, and Sydney Show would do
credit to any part of the Empire, or to
any agricultural country.” The Mac-
Gillivrays have been long associated with
the breeding of Shorthorns in Scotland,
and K.P. has achieved fame as a judge
and produced many champions in his
Kirkton stud. His brother, Capt. John
MacGillivray, is owner of the world-
famous Calrossie stud, members of which
have had such great influence on Short-
horn-breeding in this country.
Rafael Kubelik's two-year contract as
conductor of the Chicago Symphony
Orchestra comes on the heels of a suc-
cessful Australian season —his second for
the A.B.C. Son of a famous father —Jan
Kubelik was a top-ranking virtuoso of
the fiddle when he toured Australia years
ago—Rafael made his debut as conduc-
tor of the Czech Philharmonic Orchestra
when he was 20. The next year he made
a world tour with his father, appearing
both at the piano and the conductor’s
desk. Now 35, he has built up a solid
reputation with the baton, his memory
so infallible that he often dispenses with
a score through an exacting programme.
It is when he has a work listed by a com-
patriot-such as Smetana’s “Ma Vlast”
—that Kubelik’s mercurial temperament
is given full play. When he strides on to
the platform, bowing from his 6ft. 4in.,
his long hair is comparatively close down
on his scalp. Within 10 measures of the
music he is leaping with a fine frenzy,
and as his hair breaks from its moorings
his forces must only be dimly visible
through what looks like a mass of sea-
weed over his eyes. But he can get the
best out of an orchestra, and he has a
very likeable personality.
For 20 years conductor of the 8.8. C.
Symphony Orchestra, Sir Adrian Boult
is to baton London Philharmonic. It’s
not new for him —he has already held
the rostrum for the Philharmonic, as for
Britain’s other leading orchestras, as well
as conducting Russian ballet from Vienna
to New York, and most capitals in be-
tween. Married to the daughter of an
R.N. captain, he’s 61.
Kerans, of the Amethyst, has got a
third ring and his brass-hat. After
running the social gauntlet from Ply-
mouth to London and back, he deserves
’em.
Hamilton (Vic.), recently become the
State’s 36th city, has another claim to
distinction: it is believed to be the only
place in Australia to honor its V.C. by
(most practical reward) building him a
house. Sponsored by the R.S.L., and
erected by voluntary labor, it will be
ready for Private Edward Kenna early
this year. Kenna won his Cross at
Wewak on May 6, 1945, when, single-
handed, he and his Bren put the muzzle-
covers on Jap. automatic fire during the
attack on Wiriu Mission, thus making
possible capture of the post and successful
attacks on the remaining enemy positions.
He is the only surviving Victorian V.C.-
winner of World War 11.
Into the Silence:
At 72, in Sydney, James Dooley, one-time
tailor who, at 30, was the youngest in the
N.S.W. Assembly. By 1921 he was Premier.
Labor went out the next year, and so did
Dooley, expelled for non-compliance with
A.L.P. Executive decisions. Later he was for-
given, but in 1923 J. T. Lang ousted him from
leadership of Caucus. With his party back
in 1925 Dooley became Speaker, but two years
later, defeated in a selection ballot, he called
it a day.
In Brisbane, at 82, David George Evans, one
of the State’s best-known sheepmen. Born in
Victoria, overseer of one of his sheepman
father’s N.S.W. properties, he headed north to
Malvern Hills Station, in the Blackall district,
and managed it for 30 years before buying his
own Lowana property in the same district.
His advice on wool matters was as widely-
sought as it was explicit and ters».
At Lismore (N.S.W.), William Gilbert
Walker, last year mayor of Lismore, and one
of the best-known identities of the Northern
Rivers. Alderman of Lismore Council for 16
years, with two terms as deputy-mayor and two
as mayor, he went to the North Coast in 1888.
In 1912 he opened an auctioneering business in
Lismore, bolstered it into one of the area’s
largest, and was its active principal at the end.
At 63, in Perth, Professor G. Wood, head
of the classics department in the faculty of
arts at Westralia’s University. Born in Scot-
land, schooled in Aberdeen, he had been on
the University staff since its establishment in
1913, successively lecturer, associate-professor
and professor in classics.
In England, at 77, George Pontin, in his day
one of Australia’s foremost marine painters.
He was one of Folingsby’s pupils at the Mel-
bourne National Gallery and was a student
contemporary of Longstaff. He left Australia
half a century ago.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Becks”: Many of the phrases handed,
down from the past have become so
familiar that we use them without a
thought of their literal meaning. This
was brought home to me the other day
when I read in a London “Economist”
article speculating on the date of the
British elections:
The Prime Minister, if he waits till June,
could well be accused of risking public
confidence at home and British prestige
abroad to alter only slightly the pattern
of a die that is already cast.
Falling back on the dictionary, I had
always assumed that the die referred to
in the phrase “the die is cast” was “a
small cube with dots or numbers on the
sides, used in gambling games” (plural
dice). The “Economist” obviously con-
siders it is “a hard metal device for
stamping or cutting-out some object or
design.” Maybe the “Economist” is right
—both interpretations suggest something
irrevocable—but I still think that when
Caesar, having crossed the Rubicon, said
“Jacta alea est,” he was speaking as a
dicer, not a die-sinker.
4e a|c $ a|t
“Flathead”: “Well, I think I know what
the trouble is. How often do you feed
it?” “About twice a week.” “That’s
wrong for a start. If you want it to be
strong and healthy you should feed it
every two days” For a moment the
rattling points drowned this conversa-
tion from the seat behind and I wondered
what “it” was. Dog? Horse? Surely
starving every second day would be wrong
for them. The man with the advice came
through again, “Well, plain sugar dropped
into the bowl can be sufficient, but you
get a better response with malt extract.
Remember it’ll thrive in a cool dark
place. A refrigerator is ideal.” Could
it be some sort of Arctic goldfish? And
then one of them mentioned that he’d
bought another gross of crown-seals, and
that hops were available again down at
Joe’s. I had it. Home-brewers dis-
cussing their breeds of yeast.
“Plop”: My friend Angus called in on
New Year’s Day and sat with glass in
hand recalling his boyhood in the High-
lands. Presently my wife came in carry-
ing a mixing-bowl. “I thought you might
like to see this,” she said, pointing to
the mess in the bowl. “It’s an old
Scottish dish.” Angus stared at it, sniffed
it, and then had to admit that he didn’t
know what it was. “Haggis,” said my
wife innocently. “A fruit haggis. The
“Be more careful, young man; you nearly made me drop a stitch!"
recipe was on the sultana-packet.”
Angus’s face showed a look of agony that
took three more nips of my Scotch to
melt.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Bughouse”: Seems to me these germ-
warfare reports can stand a lot of soft-
pedalling. Most, if not all, diseases are
always with us. Post-mortems show that
few lungs are without scars of frustrated
t.b. attack. Pneumonia germs live always
in the lungs, but it is only when a human
suffers a violent chill or succession of
chills that they get down to successful
work. Another factor is the resistance-
power of the body attacked. Nurses and
doctors move daily amidst disease, but
resist attack by keeping themselves fit,
by good food and body-hygiene. A well-
fed, tolerably well-washed people could
laugh at germ attack. Even dropping
germ cultures into reservoirs has limita-
tions, for just as the sea cleanses itself
constantly by means of sunshine, so
“They’re playing safe — he’s unsinkable."
would any sizeable reservoir. Again, the
human body has over the centuries
achieved a sufficiency of antibodies giving
immunity against almost all diseases. The
reason why plagues wiped out almost
entire populations in the Middle Ages
were poor food, lack of sanitation and
want of ventilation in sleeping quarters.
» * ♦ *
“S.S.”: Jim wants to get in on this
argument about whether we’ve entered
the second half of the century or not.
He was born on January 2, 1900.
“According to some of these blokes,” he
said, “I’m 51. Well, I don’t reckon I’m
any more than 50 and a few days. I
s’pose my first birthday was really the
day I was born, but I wasn’t a year old
then; not, until January 2, 1901. If I’d
died in August, 1900, my parents would
have said I died at eight months, not one
year. ' Anyhow, let’s have a drink. I
bet my old man didn’t have any trouble
wettin’ my head.”
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Pitt St.”: Electric trains run through
Sydney’s Wynyard station every few
minutes and I’ve never noticed anybody
standing on the platform purely for the
purpose of watching them come and go.
Above Wynyard, in a shop window, a
model of a suburban electric train runs
round and round a model track. Any
time of the day you can see people stand-
ing there watching it. I suppose there’s a
lot of psychology tied up in this, but I
haven’t time to sort it out, except to say
that city people will attend any free show,
no matter whether it’s a man digging a
hole, a model train in a window, or a
traffic cop arguing with a motorist,
£ £ $
“T. F. Showman”: “Macbeth” doth
murder newsprint inchage as well as
sleep, and I don’t question “D.H.R.’s”
right to be displeased with a specific
broadcast (B. 4/1/’5O). But surely the
radio can be a most effective medium for
Shakspeare, because it is beautifully
adapted for the numerous “asides” and
soliloquies that are hard to make con-
vincing in the modem theatre. More-
over, the Elizabethan stage, unlike ours,
lacked scenery. Shakspeare’s word-
pictures come into their own if we leave
them to evoke the sense of place without
distraction from artificial aids. Inci-
dentally, that speech about “ravelled
sleeve of care” can’t be spoken by the
horrified actor (Macduff) who “discovers”
the dead Duncan ; the words were written
for the murderer himself, and their mood
is remorse,
“Back-seater”: Speaking of “Mac-
beth” (B. 4/f/’5O), I always think the
porter’s discourse on the Demon in Act
II as the gem of that drama. Reading
an American article on “social drinking”
I find; “Alcohol is not an aphrodisiac.
Small amounts may serve to release in-
hibitions, but they have no direct effect
on sexual activity. In large amounts
alcohol may render the drinker tempo-
rarily impotent.” Now turn up what the
porter says on the subject—and marvel
at the insight and knowledge of the writer
who passes under the name of William
Shakspeare,
* ♦ * «
“Isa Lei”: Adelaide’s unfinished “City
Temple” on North-terrace has remained
uncompleted and neglected for 35 years.
Its basement overgrown with weeds and
its stark brick walls scarcely concealed by
a paling fence, this loftily-conceived
project has become a dismal reminder
of unfulfilled hopes. Round about 1914
a young minister decided to build a city
temple on North-terrace. As well as a
church it was to have been a club for
young people, run on lines similar to the
Y.M.C.A. It was an ambitious project
for its day. He had received a small
legacy, and to raise the extra finance he
raised a bank overdraft, lodging as
security title-deeds of another church
which had been transferred to him.
Work was started on the deep founda-
tions in 1916, but after a few months his
capital gave out. Disheartened, he
abandoned the project, resigned from
the ministry, enlisted and was later killed
in action. Throughout the years many
prospective buyers have viewed the block
and the uncompleted structure, but there
has been no taker.
* * * *
“Pawang”: The latest eminent
physician to make the discovery that great
writers were insane is the appropriately-
named Dr. Russell Brain, of the Maida
Vale Hospital for Nervous Diseases in
England, He named Boswell, Bunyan,
Burns, Byron, Dickens, Dr. Johnson,
Lamb, Ruskin, Shelley and Tennyson as
examples, and catalogues them as cyclo-
thymes, schizophrenics, obsessional,
psychopaths, alcoholics or drug addicts.
I don’t know what a cyclothyme is, but
I would like to ask Dr. Brain “Were
Burns’s poems, Boswell’s memoirs,
Lamb’s essays and Dickens’s novels sane
or insane?” I suppose he would have
to say that they were sane. If he then
asked “This book is sane; but was the
author insane?” he would be asking a
quite nonsensical question because, if the
book were sane, the author must have
been sane when he wrote it. A genius is
obsessed with art, and his eccentricities
may be part of his inspiration. The man
in the street is just as obsessed, but he is
probably only obsessed with sickness or
getting a rise in wages. A genius like
Shelley is in a different category; the
obsession he has produces something the
whole world admires, and even his eccen-
tricities may be his subject-matter.
Shelley’s poems on death are regarded as
among the masterpieces of the English
language.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Kelms”; Some things are the same
the world o’er. A bee is one of them,
and an apiarist another. When a New
Australian, who claims to have been once
the biggest apiarist in the Caucasus, saw a
beehive in the bush near a Westralian
migrant camp, he took it into protective
custody and looked around for more. He
boxed seven hives and could easily have
got a hundred had he wished. He’s
planning to go in for the game in a big
way later, but at the moment he has
found a cure for nostalgia in manufac-
turing a home-brew of the Caucasian
drink kvass ; made from honey and yeast,
it has a kick like a mule.
* * ♦ ♦
“H.A.L.”; One of the most valuable
books in the world isn’t a book in the
ordinary sense of the word, although it
appears to be one until you open it.
Here’s its history. When Captain Cook
returned from his first Pacific voyage
the sheets of tapa-cloth which Polynesian
chiefs had given him in exchange for
hatchets and other gifts were cut up and
bound into about 100 books, each sheet
labelled with the island where it was
made. Tapa-cloth is—or was—made
from the inner bark of the young coppice
saplings of the paper mulberry; with
little hardwood beaters the Polynesian
women would beat it out until it was as
thin as fine linen and beautifully even
and soft in texture. Then, with vegetable
dyes and either freehand drawing or
stencils, it was decorated with lines and
patterns in black, red and brown. Some
of it was given a glaze which rendered
it waterproof. Nowadays these leather-
bound books of tapa samples are valu-
able museum pieces; I don’t know how
many of them there are in Australia, but
Adelaide has two —one in the South
Australian Museum and one in the pos-
session of the S.A. branch of the Royal
Geographical Society. Both are kept
locked away in vaults and can be seen
only by special permission.
LA BELLE DAME SANS CHEMISE.
ẁ
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


“Bo”: It was a typical afternoon peak-
hour scene in the King’s Cross tram—
women were swinging on the straps and
men were sitting with their noses buried
in their papers, not daring to look up in
case they happened to see a woman try-
ing to maintain equilibrium in the sway-
ing juggernaut while holding twins, a
sight that might even have made function
their almost atrophied sense of chivalry.
On to the tram clambered a man of the
sea. He was very large, slightly drunk
and moderately covered with gold braid.
Observing the accommodation set-up, he
mentioned in rasping voice and forthright
manner to nobody in particular his
opinion of alleged men who were skunks
enough to let tired women stand. The
response was a deeper dipping of mascu-
line noses into papers. The tirade was
kept up until the Cross was reached, with
none gainsaying the airer of opinions.
As he was alighting the nautical one,
with great deliberation, lurched against a
beautiful youth with varnished hair, clad
in a heliotrope shirt, corduroy trousers
and suede shoes and a tie that would have
set a fire-alarm going. After the tram
had sped on its way Heliotrope Shirt
turned to his companion, also of bizarre
taste in dress. “What a horrid bully!”
he squeaked angrily. “If they bring in
that compulsory training I certainly
wouldn’t join the Navy /”
* * • *
Jasby”; I nominate as the world’s
most modest writer the fellow who
chooses the quotations which appear at
the foot of date-pads and desk-calendars.
Those responsible for the selection of
material for most anthologies usually
seek reflected glory by appending their
names as editors—F. T. Palgrave, for
example, is nowadays remembered as the
Golden Treasury rather
than for his own works, although he con-
xl bUt i d not a stanza to the collection,
the date-pad genius on the other hand
turns out each year a neat little 365-page
anthology of quips, maxims, wit and
philosophy and seeks no credit at all for
his labors. The self-restraint of the man
m H. st h 6 almost as great as his urge for
i -effacement, .hut * suspect there is at
least one chink in his armor. Among the
pithy scra p S 0 f g en i us rightly acknow-
{*?*** *° ?hakspeare, Shaw, Elbert Hub-
ard, Benjamin Franklin, Doctor John-
son and the rest, there appear at frequent
miervals items ascribed to “Anon.”
wnue not denying that the authorship
wise sayings is unknown, I have
very strong suspicions that the date-pad
l ? knows full well who wrote the quips
him mu ln tbi ? way - 1 hereby confront
{jmawith accusing finger pointed and say,
it T’n W ?i e <f m y° urs elf.” If he denies
• add > And I wouldn’t be a bit
Persian* d V ° U Wrote S P anish >
,2 Mexican and Patagonian
Vnnr o b !u y< ? U USC for the duller P a gCS Of
fellnJ mt Mi° 1 i?, 8y ” course, the modest
as h W 1 blu sh and squirm and wriggle
denial ? ta P 1 / ners out his embarrassed
found him om. WOU,t C ° nVinCe me ' rve
Wo C r'e°me’as
fare J show^ t H n^ ter ' G u eneral paused and his
in^h e h wa?Un5 1S embarr ? ssm ent—for seated
the G p W A room adjoining his office at
smarUv-dV;^ 5 mormn ? a number of
““amy dressed young ladies. They were
awaiting him. That was apparent, and on
his approach they rose in a body and
curtsied... .It transpired that they were
delegates appointed by the female tele-
phomsts to place their grievances before
the Minister.
Later, the P.M.G. announced that the
)^ ou ldn’t strike, one of them having
said, “We have too much sense to strike.”
Where was this? In Sydney. The paper
is dated October 3, 1912. Apart from
the echo from another age, I can’t help
wondering what P.M.G. Anthony would
do if he entered his office today and a
bunch of telephone girls “rose in a body
and curtsied.”
“ What's keeping you, John ?”
“Plop”; I have a friend doing a law
course and, from what I can see, surviv-
ing oh a diet of aspirins and milk. But
occasionally he feels the need of a good
steak, and so it was when he entered a
city restaurant recently, found a vacant
table away oyer in a corner, sat at it
and placed his brief-case down before
him. As he fished in it for some notes
the restaurant manager came his way and
said, “Every day it is someone different
who comes. I understand not, but I bring
you the things.” My friend was surprised
but said nothing, expecting the man to
return with a knife and fork and a plate
or two. Thick, fragrant steaks passed
by, customers came and went, and many
minutes passed before the manager came
back, not with the cutlery, but with a
mighty ledger that was apparently part
of his bookkeeping system. He was
about to walk off again when my friend
understood. He explained that he hadn’t
known the table was reserved, that he
was just a normal customer, and that if
he looked like an auditor it was no doubt
because he was hungry. The manager’s
apologies were expressed in juicy steak.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Divorce is usually a bitter
business, but not always. One example
■Mirny
ylame. o
D&ifli.
/m§
f *r rue
Mm?.
“This new line will get ANY man—steak and onions."
of amiability in matrimonial jurisdiction
causes concerns a brace of couples who
had a regular bridge school. In the course
of time the four people’s matrimonial
allegiances became tangled. Divorces
made the way clear for reshuffle of
partnerships. Directly the decrees were
made absolute the bridge games were
resumed and still go on regularly.
* * ♦ ♦
“South Coast”: The redheaded waitress
reckoned it was all the cook’s fault as
they waited for the kettle that never boils.
Hadn’t the cook said “Blast! There’s no
more hot-water.” And told her to fish out
the fly and take that cuppa tea back —the
customer wouldn’t know. “Yes, it’s fresh
tea,” Redhead assured the diner. “I just
made it.” “No, you didn’t,” he said as
he put the spoon to the bottom of the
cup. “I put the sugar in first.”
* * * «
“Macnell”: About the only people who
seem unconcerned about the Manus base
being christened H.M.A.S. Seeadler are
the naval men who’ll use it. Reason for
the choice is simple and obvious —
Seeadler is the huge, deep, buoy-cluttered
harbor on which the base is built and
which sheltered, at different times, most
of the ships of those vast American and
British fleets which bombarded the Nip
all the way back home. For the same
reason H.M.A.S. Rushcutter is so named
—it stands on Rushcutter’s Bay—and the
custom is general. Seeadler Harbor got
its name when Von Luckner was still in
short pants, 20 years before he ranged the
Pacific in his Seeadler (Sea Eagle). A
chart of Manus Island facing me now
bears the legend: “From a German Gov-
ernment survey of 1908”—and the new
base’s title has no connection whatever
with the “Sea Devil’s” ship.
• * ♦ ♦
“Tarry Rope”: A recently-acquired
acquaintance talks affectionately of his
U.S. home-town as “San Fran” ; that, too,
seems now the modern way of others in
referring to the city we used to call
“ ’Frisco.” By one of those changes that
creeps on us unnoticed the old ’Frisco
seems to be quite dead.
• * ♦ •
“Hattie Hop”: If novelists are any
guide the average height of women must
have increased in the last 100 years (B.
7/12/’49). I recently read Thackeray’s
Adventures of . Philip, The Golden
Butterfly by Besant and Rice, and a story
by Bret Harte. In each of these, a
feminine character is mentioned re-
peatedly as being “tall” or “very tall.”
Finally if is disclosed that the height in
each instance is sft. Sin. I find that in
modern fiction the ideal height of heroines
is sft. Sin., though' they are considered
by their creators as endearingly and
femininely short in stature.
Mullum”: “The patient was allowed
to go home” (B. 14/12/’49)? Public
hospitals are probably more lenient, but
it was harder to get out of an Army
hospital than it was to be admitted. A
week before Christmas I sprained an
ankle. The m.o. reluctantly sent me to
hospital when I pointed out that a no-duty
chit would mean starvation, as I could
not walk to the mess. Three days later
I was sweeping out the ward and helping
serve meals to other patients. An invita-
tion to spend Christmas with friends in
a near-by town made the future seem
bright, but I had forgotten the m.o. He
kept me in that hospital over Christmas,
and told me that I was lucky to be
“allowed to leave” in time for New Year’s
Eve.
* * ♦ *
Spike”; Perhaps the most disappointed
creature in existence is the “bouncing
ball,” star of a type of musical film-
short in which the audience is requested
to sing and keep in time by following
the pill as it hops from word to word.
Immediately the man in the projection-
room turns on one of these items his
audience is struck dumb; even women
who like to chat at the pictures are for
once still, and because the audience
realises that it is only its sense of decorum
that is keeping it quiet when it would
really like to be singing, a form of foolish '
embarrassment hangs about the air. Since
they continue to make these films in
America one can assume that over there
their inhibitions are less cramping than
ours, and more on a par with the freer
spirits that used to give the “bouncing
ball” a roaring reception when he turned
up at an Australian Army camp show
during the war. But now, in stilted
peace-time, when sometimes a lone voice
does cry out somewhere in the darkness
of the theatre and join the ball for a
few bars, it inevitably trails off amid
whisperings of “plastered.”
* • * *
“Craiser”; Marxist scholars in Mel-
bourne have been busy trying to refute
Mr. Justice Lowe’s contention at the
Royal Commission on Communism that
Marx wasn’t the author of that celebrated
slogan “Religion is the opium of the
people.” According to his Honor it was
Charles Kingsley. It has been asserted
that the author of Westward Ho could
not have said it because he was a parson ;
they have forgotten that he was also a
social reformer. Moreover, Marx himself
said that he learnt more about economics
from Dickens and other English novelists
than he learnt out of textbooks. Marx
and Kingsley were contemporaries, and
it is much more likely that Marx read
the works of Kingsley than that Kingsley
read Marx’s ponderous Introduction to a
Critique of the Hegelian Philosophy of
Right, in which it is stated that “Religion
is the opium of the people.” Marx
may easily have read the contributions
Kingsley made under the pen-name of
“Parson Lot” to Politics for the People
in which the idea is much better stated:
“We have used the Bible as if it were a
mere Special Constable’s handbook, or
an opium dose for keeping beasts of
burden patient while they were being
overloaded.”
• ♦ • •
“Kageel”: My new house had every-
thing I wanted—except a co-operative
neighbor and a good drainage system.
My first reconnaissance showed me that
my neighbor had built a series of drains
leading from his place into mine; in wet
weather the end of my yard was a
quagmire. When I saw him busy tending
his neat vegetable-garden at a time when
my yard was loud with the croaking of
contented frogs I led up to the question
as tactfully as I could. He dodged the
issue until I had to ask him directly to
do something about it. He demurred ; I
got angry and insisted on my rights. My
neighbor smiled, and said he had put
a lot of work into those drains. When we
parted the feud had begun. That same
day I took out my tools and heaped up
an earthwork along my side of the fence
near his drains. He countered next
weekend by redirecting his drains. All
feelings of goodwill left us both. I was
hard at it again just before Christmas,
this time determined to erect a complete
barrier between us. The sun was sizzling
and sweat was pouring off me when I
heard him on the other side of the fence.
I looked up belligerently. He had a bottle
of beer in one hand and two glasses in
thfe other, and he was grinning. “Too hot
for that kind of work,” he said. I agreed.
He passed me over a foaming glassful.
We both said “Good luck” and took a
long drink. “That block on the other
side of my place is council land,” my
neighbor said as he topped up my glass.
“If you and I put in a day’s work to-
gether ...” He’s quite a good bloke,
really. We planned the new drains, and
then shared another bottle / had put away
for Christmas.
SYMPATHY NEEDED.
“Many criminals are clever and versatile; some
have the qualities of independence and generosity.
It is well sometimes to reflect that these men are
only criminals because they have some glandular
abnormality.” —Melbourne clergyman.
Don’t let us be too hasty in condemning
The gent with sloping brow and bullet-head
Who, misfit in society,
To certain impropriety
Is happily and permanently wed.
He needs, perhaps, to use a broken bottle
To aid in prising people from their pelf—;
Mind, it’s nothing avaricious
Or Inordinately vicious,
It’s simply that he likes to help himself.
In such an age as that in which we’re living,
When private enterprise is being assailed,
And the cardinal ambition
Is to loaf in inanition,
Such sturdy independence must be hailed.
And if a basher with the Law gets tangled,
And must be made to rest in durance vile,
Don’t look with detestation
On his sponging on the nation —
It’s not his fault that he’s so versatile.
Should you come home one night and find a
burglar
Has packed the stuff he’s looted in a bag
And, oblivious of the risk, he
Tarries, mopping up your whisky,
Absorbing cheer to carry with the swag,
Don’t sock him on the melon with a putter
Or otherwise give evidence of ire.
Regard him with compassion;
Were his glands not on a ration
Of secretion, he’d be singing in the choir!
There’s one good point we all must be conceding
To him who wields the jemmy or the gun
In his chosen occupation
Of compelling a “donation,”
Who at cracking cribs is quite a champion:
That meanness is an attribute it’s certain
One can’t with any real justice say:
It’s something he’s not prone to.
Why! He often has been known to
Kindly give some other people’s things away!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Southerner”: Two aborigines on an
outback cattle-station in the Northern
Territory are now settling down to
married life, happy in the thought that
their union had been blessed by the Good
Book. The Good Book, however, proved
to be not the Bible, which couldn’t be
found anywhere when the ceremony was
due to begin, but a St. John’s Ambulance
first-aid instructor which the police-officer
officiating grabbed up in despair as a
substitute. Turning to the chapter on
broken limbs, he impressively translated
it into pidgin English.
He * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “It says here,” Mat
said, “that the railways is losin’ a packet
o’ dough. Well, y’ wouldn’t think so, the
way they charge y’ for everythin’. Look
what they must make out o’ them
escalator things they got in the big
stations down in town.” “Escalators?”
I said. “Yair, you know, sort o’ movin’
stairway, like the elevator on a chaff-
cutter, only they carry people up an’
down,” “An’ they make dough on ’em?”
r OBACCOj
“Will you drink your coffee, or would you like it in your pipe. Professor?"
I queried cautiously. “Too right. Cost
me four bob first time I struck ’em. They
tickled me fancy, so I rode up on one
an’ down on the other a coupler times
an’ I see a railway bloke lookin’ at me.
He’s standin’ at the bottom an’ I says,
‘These things are goodo, mate.’ ‘Yair,’
he says, ‘but y’ only get one free ride,
y’ know. It’ll cost y’ a zac a time after
that.’ ‘That’s pretty hot, ain’t it?’ I
says. ‘We gotter make it hot,’ he says,
‘or y’d have thousands ridin’ up an’ down
all day.’ Well, I could see that, all right.
He grins a bit an’ says, ‘Y’re from the
bush, ain’t y’?’ ‘Yair,’ I says. ‘Aw, well,
that’s different,’ he says. ‘We never
charge country people the first time they
come.’ Y’ couldn’t say that wasn’t
decent, could y’, so I make him take four
bob for the ten rides I had. But ’cripes,
I’d like t’ be runnin’ one of ’em at a
tray a time. Man’d make a fortune. Y’
oughter see the crowds on ’em some-
times.” He poked the fire and I got up
and went quietly into the scrub and sat
down and brooded. Somebody was get-
ting his leg pulled, and I’m still not sure
who it was.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: For once I have cursed
the longest days of the year. Usually the
liberal hours of clear sunlight that bring
the shortest shadows give you time for
all the outdoor work you want in morn-
ing and evening, time for a swim or a
drink or a snooze in the heat of the day
and the glow of nature’s own heat on
your skin. They are all here today, but
with them is a grizzling that overlies
everything as soon as a bloke pokes his
nose outside ; the bronze cuckoos foisted
an accursed egg on the blue wrens that
live down the back, and the whingeing
result has left the nest just in time to wish
the world a wailing Christmas. Blue had
earlier raised a brood of his own cheerful
tribe, and now these are busy trying to
help the old couple fill this ungrateful
whiner that sits on a branch and
interrupts his howling for more only to
gulp what he gets —and he has that break
cut to a split-second ; but the more they
give him the more he moans. I like
variety, but this fowl has one note only,
a dreary utterance that goes “peepee,
peepee” . . . Look, the sun rose today at
4.01 a.m. and he started over half an hour
ahead of it; he squeaks five or six times a
second. Sunset is 7.07 p.m. ; that makes
over 14 hours’ sunlight and he’s still howl-
ing into dusk —work it out for yourself.
Last night in a good cause I killed Bert,
our black rooster; plucking and cleaning
him took me more minutes than it takes
the experts seconds, for I’m a mug at
that job and hate it. But if I could lay
hands on that crying cuckoo I would
wring its gluttonous neck and spend a
pleasant time pulling out its feathers one
by one to see if they were as many as the
wails it uttered on the longest day, then
cheerfully chuck its gizzard to the pup.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Five minutes after he
had said ‘‘Hooray” to his mate—and
temporary employer—old Fred trod on
the snake. Perhaps the 'reptile got as
great a shock as the biped, but its reflexes
responded more spontaneously. For the
first time in nearly 60 years of skirmish-
ing with them the old bushworker suffered
snakebite. Coolly he surveyed the two
punctures, decided that the poison might
have penetrated the cloth of his
dungarees, then pulled the leather laces
out of his boots and reached for his
penknife. Next day being Saturday he
called in for his customary two shandies.
The news of the incident had spread.
Somewhat reluctantly Fred was describ-
ing the “whens” and “hows” when a
stranger poked his oar in: “You were
coming home from work?” Fred looked
surprised as he nodded assent. “Then
go your boss for workers’-compensa-
tion!” commanded the unknown one.
“You don’t understand,” old Fred ex-
plained. “Charlie Hunt is a cobber of
mine ; I’ve got my own little place, but
I’m doing a couple of weeks’ work for
Charlie because he’s stuck for a man.
And I’m only taking money for it be-
cause Charlie wouldn’t ask me to help
him again if I didn’t ” “It don’t matter,”
declared the stranger. “Your duty is to
claim compensation or you create a pre-
cedent—it’s" blokes like you that break
down fellow-workers’ conditions.”
Danger-signals flared in Fred’s grey eyes
—then suddenly changed to a twinkle.
“Perhaps you’re right,” he admitted
humbly. “But I don’t think I’ve got a
“I beg your pardon!”
claim in this case; I wasn’t at work,
and” “Don’t matter a damn!”
stormed the Defender of Rights. “You’re
covered till you enter your own gate —
and for any accident whatever,” Old
Fred’s twinkle became a silent roar of
derision. “But that’s the trouble” he
murmured naively. “It wasn’t an acci-
dent —the blooming snake did it on pur-
pose.”
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Captain Cook did not
introduce pigs to the islands of the
Central Pacific-he bought them there for
the use of his crew, and it was those pigs
which he introduced to New Zealand
and North Queensland (B. 21 /12/’49).
Some 2500 years ago the deserts of
Central Asia formed and began to spread
as the climate grew drier; this caused
millions of people to move out in search
of new homes. Some of them invaded
north-west India, where at that time there
lived a tall, stalwart race of people with
light-brown skins who had already
evolved a civilisation. Driven from their
homes by the hordes of invaders, these
people set out to find a new country ;
from the Coromandel Coast of India they
moved by sea to Java, then on to Borneo,
Celebes, the horth coast of New Guinea
and the Solomon Islands to Fiji, where
they at last found a home. From that
group of islands their descendants sub-
sequently set out in big canoes to colonise
the islands scattered over 2,000,000 square
miles of the Pacific, From India they
brought with them a small, fox-like dog,
a domesticated fowl, and pigs ; it was the
descendants of those pigs which Cook
purchased from them. Those people
were the Polynesians, the most daring sea-
farers the world has known, and their
breed of pig could claim an equally
ancient lineage.
* * * *
“Betcha”: The havoc wrought in
timber country by a heavy fall of snow
is almost unbelievable. The falling snow
piles steadily higher on the tree-tops till
the weight tears off the branches and
leaves the trunks bare. Where the tree
has a good lean the whole lot goes. Trees,
half-trees and huge branches are all
heaped criss-cross on one another in a
great inglorious mess. Had helped bring
the stock off the timbered runs when the
first snow threatened, but hadn’t been
back since the big fall till the other day,
when I found that in many places I
couldn’t ride through the rubbish. As
for driving cattle —well, after an apoplec-
tic half-hour I just abandoned the job
in that section. The timber is drying fast,
and I shudder to think what would be
the result of a carelessly-dropped match
in the area. Adding to the danger is the
heavy crop of long grass brought by the
exceptionally good season, and already
browning to tinder.
* * * *
“Sackville St.”: I claim the title of
Avian Champion of Australia for my
nominee. Points to be awarded for: (1)
Courage—willingness to take on any
bird, any weight. (2) Science and defence
—ability to anticipate the opponent's
moves ; clever evasion; skill in “giving
without taking.” (3) Aggressiveness-
fierce, fighting spirit and ruthless deter-
mination to carry the fight to the an-
tagonist. And my
champion? The dimi-
nutive “scissors-grinder”
(fantailed flycatcher).
A flyweight himself,
I’ve seen him deal out
a terrible thrashing to
the welterweight pallid
cuckoo ; make middle-
weight peewees toss in
the towel; and recently
I observed him putting
wrinkles of surprise in
a light - heavyweight’s
forehead. There were
five of the magpies in
the aerial battle, but no
great damage was being
inflicted. One com-
batant peeled off and
flew to a dead box for a
breather. He didn’t
get it. From nowhere
came the little black-
and-white spitfire. His
small beak stabbed.
The jab hurt maggie,
he turned in obvious
anger, beak open. But
“scissors” had side-
stepped on the wing, to
dart in again. Again
the stab connected.
This time maggie had a
swipe a murderous-
looking one. The click
of the big beak sounded
just as the little bloke,
well out of range,
circled swiftly and
shot in from behind.
Three times maggie got
the worst of the round before he decided
he’d get back into a fight where a bird
did have a chance of connecting on some-
thing solid.
* * * *
“Houston”: My cap is off to Manna-
hill (S.A.). For years this community
suffered from serious encroachment of
sand-drift —record has it that 200 tons
were removed from the main street in
one month. Today, thanks to a real com-
munity effort by the entire population of
125, the menace has been checked by
contour-ploughing and tree-planting —
over 1000 myrtles,' red-gums, pepper-
corns and other species are help-
ing to check the drift. Mannahill, 233
miles from Adelaide, is on the Broken
Hill line.
* * $ *
“Royal-st.”: Among the bigger and
better aircraft that drone overhead these
days those of us who learnt to regard
them as symbols of reliability can still
distinguish afar the steady throb of the
old Douglas DC3. From Garbutt and
Goodenough to Morotai and Mingladon
and beyond, through all sorts of weather,
over green seas and greener jungle they
plugged on with men or munitions, petrol
dr paratroops, food or films, serum or
secrets, and if they couldn’t land they’d
toss out their cargoes to those waiting
for them and go back for more. Vague
memories of all this stirred as one drifted
across the other day, but were brushed
aside as a flurry, of white above the air-
craft concentrated all attention on the
present. It looked as though an armful
of white papers had been tossed up from
the plane, but loose-flying papers couldn’t
have whirled with the vigor and agitation
of those forms fighting to clear the slip-
stream which the descending machine sent
up at them. Slowly they sorted them-
selves out, and in a couple of hundred
yards formed up again into line-abreast
formation and continued west —white ibis
The plane was at about 3000 feet, and
from aircraft that’s about the highest 1 ve
seen birds; wedgetails used to soar at
about that level near the Grampians,
and whistling eagles reached it on the
plains. I think the pelican would beat
both these easily, though I never spotted
these big fellows while sharing then
element; but the ibis on the move to new
water must get as high as most fowl
The scavenging kites that hit the news
now and then because an aircraft in the
East has smacked them were rarely a
menace above 500 feet; but the scramble
for tucker is keen in those parts, and
both bird and man try to keep within
snatching distance of it.
ALONG THE OCEAN ROAD.
Rolling up from the Otways
The clouds make out to sea,
High and above the breakers
That crash at the headland’s knee.
Over the crest of the range,
And down the airy slips
The sea is drawing the sungold in,
But the sky is launching ships.
Endless, iridescent, glittering,
Far as the eye can reach,
Coming ashore in a snowfall,
Breaking white on the beach;
While over it the ethereal
Caravels cant and lean,
Skimming shadows beneath them,
And half blue heaven between.
Rolling away from the ocean
The Otway Ranges flow
And fall away to the foothills,
The sunburnt plains below,
Back from the forest fortress
That holds to the old command:
Here beginneth the ocean,
And here endeth the land.
Hark to the high-tide’s music!
The echoes thunder and sigh,
Deep calls deep and is answered,
The pillars of earth reply.
And under the thunder an omen '
Of mightier themes to be —
Anthems and alleluias
That were never on land or sea.
Not for me is the infinite;
My dreams must be left to drown
Where the wet white dust of the breakers
Like smoke is backward blown;
Or flung to the sky to founder
Out where the skyline dips
With the clouds that go sailing—sailing
Down to the sea like ships.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


“Old-timer”: The all-male gang pick-
ing the Tapalin grapes that year was a
pretty good one—until the boss’s elderly
mother arrived. She had the idea that
all working-men were loafers by nature
and polers by instinct and weren’t worth
tuppence unless constantly watched;
which was completely opposed to the
boss’s theories about ’em. Anyhow, she
took to prowling round the rows and
the dip, chipping anybody she saw stop
to roll a smoke or pass a word or discuss
some problem of the job, and presently
a deputation waited upon the boss and
told him to send her home or pick his
own ruddy grapes. The boss confessed
that he didn’t know what to do, since she
was a determined woman and he’d prob-
ably have to bind and gag her to get her
on the coach. “I’ll talk to her,” he said,
doubtfully. “If you’ll hang on for a day
or two.” For two days there was peace ;
then she was at it again. The gang didn’t
go to the boss, but plotted a plot. Next
morning the grim lady left the dip and
went along the block to where the eight
pickers were. She rounded the headland
and let out a scream, for picking away
at the grapes were eight men and youths,
naked except for a girdle of vine-leaves
round the loins. Before she could recover
old Bill looked up and said mildly, “We
reckon we can pick faster like this,
missus, an’ it’s cooler.” But the missus
was already off, and that afternoon the
coach had another passenger.
* * * *
“Zake”: There appear to be two bush-
schools of thought regarding the surest
and most expeditious way to get fleas out
of a blanket. One pins its faith to the
beautifully simple method of heaving the
blanket —if it cannot be induced volun-
tarily to walk there itself—on to an ant-
heap, the inhabitants of which rush out
thinking there’s been an eclipse of the
sun or something, and, seeing the fleas,
which get their feet so entangled in the
woollen material they can’t hop, promptly
fall upon them hip and thigh, lumping
the corpses after the slaughter to the
subterranean refrigerator for future use.
The other school plumps for the leaves
of the plant known as Stinking Roger.
Enthusiasts of this school claim that upon
the leaves being dropped on to the blanket
the fleas leave hastily while holding their
probosces. I have even known greater
enthusiasts who after this treatment adopt
the even more Spartan one of snoozing
“Anybody know what's the matter with this cove ?”
with a ring of Stinking Roger leaves
completely encircling their bed. They are
heroes who make the Six Hundred seem
almost craven by comparison.
* * * #
“M.S.”: The bloke on the low stretch
of road by the river gazed despairingly
under the bonnet of his car, looked
round at the rushing torrent and started
hoofing it back up the road. At length
he found a kid on horseback who agreed
to carry a message, He returned to the
car. Over an hour later a motor-bike put
in an appearance, and a youth dropped
off and unstrapped a bag of tools. “Boss
wasn’t in when your message arrived,” he
announced. “So I had t’ come out meself.
Conked out, did she? Shouldn’t’ve. Big
new car like this.” “Yes, and I was a
bit worried about the river,” explained
the owner. “Not likely to rise any more,
is it?” “Yair, she’s coming up,” the local
informed. “Couple of hours and this
road’ll be waist-deep. Been a cloud-
burst up in the hills,” he added indiffer-
ently. “You’d better hurry then,” urged
the owner. “Don’t know the first thing
about engines myself.” The mechanic
eyed the works, hummed a tune for a
minute or two and picked up a spanner.
Half an hour and he had pieces of car
spread all over the road. “Think I know
what must be the trouble,” he decided
at length. “Will it take long to fix?”
“Eh? Aw, no, not long.” He glanced
at his watch, took a look at the river and
removed a few more parts. “Huh, you’re
gonna be unlucky, after all,” he an-
nounced 10 minutes later. “Why? You
said it wouldn’t take long,” said the
owner anxiously. “And the river is all
right for a little while yet?” Yair, I
know, but” The youth held up his
watch. “See that?” he chirped. “Five
o’clock. My knock-off time.”
* * * *
“Billy T.”; As the year ends, there
finishes with it a race that has lasted
almost as long. About six months ago
the dusk brought two stars out ahead of
the rest; Venus dominated the west while
at about the same elevation in the east
Jupiter showed the way to the lesser lights
following—l know, because the strike was
on and I was plugging home by bike
instead of train and the two stars (all
right, all right, planets) were just above
the roadside trees as I pedalled north.
Then as the months passed the big but
distant fellow began to gain; maybe the
Goddess of Beauty was a bit too fond of
her reflection or something, but as she
lingered above the darkening horizon
Jupe climbed higher, passed the zenith,
and as summer approached could be seen
bearing down upon the brilliant evening
star. From overhead it looked as though
his track might follow right in hers, but
he ran fair, and about a month ago passed
her in the adjoining lane —close, but clear.
Once ahead, he crossed in front almost
like a sailing-boat taking an opponent’s
wind, but now he is well away to the
sou’-west and reaches the horizon in a
canter. He’s forgotten Venus ; he’s after
Sol now, so soon you’ll not see him at
all —he’ll be swallowed in the sunset. Not
so the glamorous lady; she prefers the
cool of the evening, so you’ll see her
sparkling there for a while yet.
* * * *
“Solitude”; As Seventyfiver strolled
into the puh of a down-country town the
bloke from the local garage dropped his
glass on the bar and took him in with
a grin. “Gripes, you still on the roads?”
he greeted. “You’ve been droving cattle
round the country a long time now,”
“Best wav o’ shiftin’ ’em,” drawled the
old bloke easily, “Oh, I don’t know,”
came the retort. “In an hour with a
transport, I could take a load that’d keep
you busy all day.” “Them damn’ things,”
glared the old bloke. “A load, yair ; but
how long’d it take the rattlin’ contrap-
tion t’ lift a thousand head? An’ what’d
it cost, eh? Gripes, it’s no wonder the
price o’ meat’s dear, with them tearin’
transports carryin’ stock these days.
Yair, an’ the wages youse blokes charge.”
Seventyfiver forgot his drink, and the
argument raged on for about quarter of
an hour. “And it doesn’t matter what
you say,” at length declared the driver.
“Methods are changing. I don’t say
you’re going to notice it much in these
parts for a long time —the roads aren’t
good enough yet—but I do say that within
fifty or sixty years everybody will be
shifting stock by transport.” “Well, I
won’t,” bristled Seventyfiver indignantly.
“I’ll be walkin’ mine, see? Yair, an’ I
don’t care if it’s fifty or a hundred flamin’
years,” he bawled, banging his fist
decidedly on the bar, “I still ain’t drivin’
no blasted machine f’r nobody.”
* * * *
“Bo”: I came upon Harry the Hatter
as he was nutting out a particularly intri-
cate phase of his construction work —he
was putting up a hut, and had selected as
his site a piece of ground at the base of
30-v7^ ,r
WeddinC.
ẅ
“Now don't forget We're only pretending."
a high bank. One side of his hut was only
a couple of feet off the bank, and it was
this side which contained the only means
of ingress to and egress from the hut.
Slap alongside the door was his stone
chimney, the top of which came about
level with the bank. I asked Harry what
was his idea in putting the door in that
position. He seemed surprised at my
question. t “Why, to make it burglar-
proof, o’ course,” he said. “Y’ see, that
door o’ mine won’t have no handle on
the outside—that’ll trick ’em.” “But how
do you propose getting in yourself,
then?” I asked. Harry winked, and kept
his eyelid depressed for almost half a
minute. “Don’t y’ see?” he explained.
The door’ll have a handle on the inside,
up near the top. All I gotter do is git
up on the top o’ the bank an’ put me
hand down the chimney to open the
door.”
** # * *
“Rooster”: That aeronautical spider
(B. 21/12/’49) can, to a certain extent,
control the length of flight, for by paying
out more silken thread it can increase
the balloon’s lifting-power, or descend
by hauling in the gossamer “cable” leg
over leg, rolling it up into a neat little
coil below its abdomen. Since it can only
take off in a suitable current of air, the
question of “who beats the big gong”
resolves itself into one of instinct, the
same as with mass-migrations of birds
and fishes. Place this spiderling on a
piece of cork floating in a saucer of
water in a still room, and it will run
around its little island for hours trying
to escape; but create a faint breeze and
up goes the balloon and away sails the
spider. It’s when they sail with an off-
shore breeze that the records for long
distance are broken. Average flight over
land is about five miles.
“Taswegian”: “JJ.H.” (B. 7/12/’49)
says that Tasmania “has very few
aboriginal place-names on its map.” Well,
here are a few: Premaydena, Nubeena,
Koonya, Gwandalan, Waddamana, Tul-
lah, Ringarooma, Miena, Pawleena,
Lenah Valley, Triabunna, Leprena,
Lunawanna, Myalla, Mawbanna, Naba-
geena, Preolenna, Moina, Riana, Wee-
gena, Beulah, Corinna, Trowatta,
Karoola, Taranna, Kaoota, Weetah,
Wihareja, Malbina, Moogara, Karanja,
Tarraleah, Maydena, Tyenna, Moonah,
Oonah, Lemana, Pyengana, Kayena,
Tatana, Lanena, Legana, Wyena,
Powranna, Cuprona, Camena,
Mathinna, Loyetea. The only two of
whose meaning I am sure are Lenah,
kangaroo, and Tullah, meeting of the
waters (where the Macintosh and the
Murchison meet to form the Pieman on
the Speck’s west coast); the common
ending “na” probably means “cold.”
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: There’s a lot in what “Sth.
E.” says about fires in scrub country (B.
14/12/’49). Take the history of a piece
of country lying some 200 miles south
of Adelaide. When I first knew the place
it was a series of grassy flats dotted with
big trees and intersected with sandy
ridges carrying a few big banksias with
an underbrush and an occasional she-
oak. Over 30 years ago it was bought
by a man who wasn’t satisfied with the
one-sheep-to-two-acres which it carried.
He ringbarked all the big trees, and 99
per cent, of them suckered. To kill the
suckers he ran a fire through it. It didn’t
do the job, but it sprouted millions of
eucalypt seedlings. To kill the seedlings,
suckers and the wattles which had also
germinated he ran another fire through
it. It succeeded in killing only the
wattles ; the banksia grew thicker than
ever on some parts of the ridges, and
elsewhere they drifted away to bedrock.
After that there was nothing for it save
to burn it every five years to carry a
sheep to five acres for that one year.
Five years ago the flats were a forest of
young gum saplings so thick a dog
couldn’t open his mouth to bark among
them. Then the place was cut up and
sold to new settlers, who poisoned all
the saplings save an odd one here and
there, rooted up the flats with tractors,
sowed them with clover and rye-grass,
top-dressed them and fumigated the
swarming rabbits. Now, after spending
five pounds an acre on it those new
owners have turned it back to what it
was over 30 years ago ; open grassy flats
dotted with trees. All over southern
Australia some people are still messing
up good country with that crazy “run-
a-fire-through-it” policy, and other people
are buying it later on and are spending
a small fortune turning it back into
good country.
“Ida D.” has misted the
point (B. 28/12/’49>. My article on abo.
place-names did not question the original
renderings—the way they were pro-
nounced by the blacks —but rather the
way these names had been mishandled
and clumsily translated into English
script. The examples quoted (R.P.
7 /12/’49) were to show how a complete
absence of co-ordination and etymo-
logical responsibility on the part of early
mapmakers, combined with the highly
original spelling of the early white settlers,
had resulted in the awful mess that con-
fronts the radio-announcer today. He is
alone in a world of strange place-names
that are pronounced sometimes according
to, and sometimes contrary to, all the rules
he learned at school, and he had no
mother to guide him until the A.B.C. list
was drawn up. Even with it, he may
not have time to check up his script
before going on the air, and the evil still
remains. We could do with someone
courageous enough to relabel the diffi-
cult place-names, retaining the pronuncia-
tion but spelling them so that the fellow
who has never been there can pronounce
them in a way that can be recognised
by the man who lives there. Concerning
the names quoted by “Ida D.,” I’m
not sure of the origin of Rouchel,
but Segenhoe is named after the
original in England. However, to refer to
her “towri” system, what about Quirindi
and Murrurundi —N.S.W. towns only
about 20 miles apart? The final “i” of
the former is always long —“Quir-z'n-dye”
—but most people talk of “Murra-rzm-
dee.” That’s where Rafferty’s rules of
spelling give rise to long dark thoughts
in the mind of the reader —not directed
at the abo., who possibly had an un-
mistakable sign for it, but at the whites
who have since mucked it up for pos-
terity.
THE RAIN-MEN.
An army of raindrops went marching up the
road
Riotously twirling, nodding in a dervish dance
And beating the roof’s drum.
The black street shone with their passage,
With the gleam and flash
Of each little man
Bowing his face to my window.
So quick was the serried parade
That I can’t, for the life of me, think
Whether he gave me his thumb or his wink.
S.A.
COLIN THIELE.


14
Hpr ThfJiu.
N
from the post-war restoration of stocks
and plant fund, making £284,619 in all,
has been set aside as a reserve for
development and deferred expenditure—
and “we will certainly spend some of
it," the chairman says. The rest of the
war-time accumulation in the restoration
i
1
fund (£189,985) and £46,234 from the
L.
year’s trade earnings (total £236,219)
were used to write down the book-value
of plant. And there was a further gain
of £24,642 from overprovision for taxa-
tion in 1948.
Increased advertising and circulation
revenues, etc., lifted the year’s total in-
Herald & Weekly Times, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends——*
z— 1 —Pref. , Re
Sept., Profit.* 8J p.c. 6 p.c. Ordinary. servca-t
£ £ £ £ *
1943. .223,954 S125 16.500 14 p.c.=154,000 )
Written off, £44,210 J
From staff fund, £10,000 .. .. 263,280
Post-war restoration res. £128,592 391,872
1944.. 225,058 8126 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 1 on R 7f; e
Written off, £42.550 3 !
1946. .261,170 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 468,300
Inner reserves disclosed, £40,184 .. 508,484
From tax reserve, £70,511 . . 678,095
1946. .254,140 8126 10,500 14 p.c.=164,000 654,510
From tax reserve, £15,773 ,. 6 1 0,283
1947. .245,821 14 p.c.=167,406 734.074
From tax reserve, £19,786 .. 7 53,860
Premiums, new issue, £396,000 .. 1,149,800
1948. .292,330 8126 16,500 14 p.c.=180,300 1,236,765
Surplus sale investments, £243,546.. 1,480,311
Surplus paper pool, etc., £105,110.. 1,685.421
From tax reserve, £24,642 .. 1,610,063
come by £1,031,407 net. But all the gain
and £1958 besides was gobbled by the
rise in the price of newsprint (average
£52 Is. 9d. a ton, up £9 7s. 6d.) and
other materials, wage-lifts and heavy cost
associated with a new publication,
“Woman’s Day," converted from a fort-
nightly to a weekly since the close of
accounts: —
Revenue— 1947. 1948. 1949.
Trading .. £2,882.703 £2,564,122 £3,698,209
Investments .. 7S,l)ll 77,014 74,334
Total .. £2,960,711 £2,641,136 £3,672,543
Expenditure—
Wages, etc. .. 769,767 778.300 980,081
Printing paper.. 1,231,394 810,138 1,490,486
Other exes. 642,026 676,394 883.680
Taxatiou .. 118,000 146,000 89,000
Total .. £2,764,187 £2,409,832 £3,448,197
Net profit -. 196,527 231.304 229,346
1047.
1(148.
1949.
Stock ..
£607,182
£003,«7 S
£831.275
Debtors, etc.
&3:»,H20
42S.421
734,319
Shares other
COS*
80S.877
868,500
072,480
Cush, etc.
21,013
119,136
210,166
Liquids
£1,007.792 £2,814.785 £2,448,240
L?abilities*
558,972
507,339
053.582
Surplus
£1,413,820 £1,747.396 £1,794.658
Freehold, etc.
621,814
660,34^
077,466
Machinery a
n d
788.676
plant
• •
398,940
769,026
Net assets
•».
£2,334,074 £3,076.765 £3,200,800
..
PVV 7b>/in
UetCa
_ a.
from the post-war restoration of stocks
of £2000, or thereabouts, and some over-
l/jfi JPV
and plant fund, making £284,619 in all,
seas agencies for heavy earth-moving
has been set aside as a reserve for
equipment, he set up on his own account
u&d)
development and deferred expenditure—
at Rydalmcre, near Sydney, as recently
N
and “we will certainly spend some of
as 1938, Some of the agency agreements,
w.WfL K
it," the chairman says. The rest of the
war-time accumulation in the restoration
fund (£189,985) and £46,234 from the
which totalled nine before war began,
included rights to manufacture under
licence. The business grew steadily, and
-
h
ti
year’s trade earnings (total £236,219)
in 1943 became Tutt Bryant Pty. with a
P—
were used to write down the book-value
capital of £12,000, which had advanced
of plant. And there was a further gain
to £40,000 in 1947, Since then the
VI. i fUrfl
1
of £24,642 from overprovision lor taxa-
tion in 1948.
Increased advertising and circulation
revenues, etc., lifted the year’s total in-
growth has been rapid. The number of
agencies now totals 34, or more, and the
range of equipment handled and manu-
factured has greatly increased, too. It
includes dozers, scrapers, rooters and
come by £1,031.407 net. But all the gain
Herald
(Melb.)
and £1958 besides was gobbled by the
loaders, as well as road-surlacing, con-
, Dividends——*
—Pref.
Be-
rise in the price of newsprint (average
£52 Is. 9d. a ton, up £9 7s. 6d.) and
crcte-construction and truck-lift equip-
ment, dredging bufckets and refuse-col-
Sept., Profit. 1 * 8$ p.c. 6 p.c. Ordinary.
aervcs-t
other materials, wage-lifts and heavy cost
lecting units. And subsidiary cos. have
£ £ £ £■
1943. .223,95* S125 16.500 14 p.c.=154,000
1 253,280
263,280
391,872
associated with a new publication,
been set up in all the mainland States.
Written off. £44,216..
From staff fund, £10,000 ..
Post-war restoration res. £128,592
“Woman’s Day," converted from a fort-
nightly to a weekly since the close of
The proprietary was converted to a
public co. in June, 1948, when paid
1944. .225,058 8125 16,500 14 p.c.^154,000
Written off, £42,550
1945. .261,170 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000
395,756
468,300
accounts: —
Revenue— 1947. 1948. 1949.
Trading .. £2,882.703 £2,564,122 £3,698,209
Investments .. 7S,t)ll 77,014 74,334
capital became £150,000, apparently by a
three-for-ono exchange of scrip, * and
Inner reserves disclosed, £40,184 ..
508,484
30,000 of the new shares were sold to
From tax reserve, £70,511
the public to provide the spread needed
1946. .254.140 8126 10.600 14 p,c.=154,U00
654,510
Total .. £2,960,714 £2,641,136 £3,672,543
Expenditure—
Wages, etc. .. 769,767 778.300 980,081
Printing paper.. 1,231,394 810,138 1,490,486
Ollier exes. . 042,026 676,394 883.680
Taxatiou .. 118,000 145,000 89,000
From tax reserve, £15,773 .. 6< 0,283
1947. 8124.16,500 14 p.c.=157,406 731.071
From tax reserve, £19,786 .. 7 53,860
Premiums, new issue, £396,000 .. 1,149,800
1948. .292,330 8126 16,500 14 p.c.=180,300 1,236,705
Surplus sale investments, £243,546.. 1,480,811
for Stock Exchange listing. Earnings of
the proprietary for the three years to
1947 were: —
r Year to June 30
1940. 19*8. 1917.
Turnover .. .. £567,019 £552,643 £069.009
drone profit .. .. 74,500 54,175 145.639
Exes.- Sfr.-’.T 4 53.200 86,224
Net profit before tax.. 85,926 88,975 59,416
Surplus paper pool, etc., £105,110.. 1,555.121
From tax reserve, £24,642 .. 1,610,063
Depreciation, £286,219 1,37:1,811
1949. .275,581 8125 16,500 14.1 = 204,000 1.120,800
Total ., £2,764,187 £2,409.832 £3,448,197
Net profit .. 196,527 231.304 229,348
Tlie profit claimed covered the pref. divs.
and 14 2 rvc on ord. capital as against
1948.
1010.
Pa/d capital
,. .£ 1A<1,000
£.200,000
Overdraft
.. 112,102.
140.055
Sundry creditors
. . aiw.ois
291,077
Tax provision
.. 79,080
111,157
Staff fund
10,070
11,707
Freeholds
57,089
85,827
Plant ..
80,200
219.80$
Shares other cu.
2,000
14,500
Stock .. . i
. . SIS,062
540,250
Hook debts ..
.. 257,204
284,27$
Cash, etc.
8,1557
7,785
Intangibles
2,000
8,000
1940.
1947.
1940.
1049.
Paid capital. . £226,000 £
2 2 5, 000 £ 225,000 £225.000
Mortgages and
deposits ,.
101,079
82,064
83,579
79,724
Other lialifliticn
5.274
23,519
24.208
33,950
Tfts resorte ..
—
10,000
22,000
22.000
Hotel*, etc...
300,soa
200,005
318,389
839.409
Plant, etc...
05,500
98,02:1
08,820
94,876
Stock
17,608
20,246
29.558
87,780
Hook del it 9, etc.
38,840
25,759
19,152
10,222
Cush. ete. ..
13,972
13,712
1,178
1,183
Shores other cos.
04,040
64,040
70,610
79,040
What special knowledge must your trustee possess?
ŵ
FINANCE;
INVESTMENT:
MANAGEMENT:
Has he an expert knowledge of
finance and the wise use of income?
Does he understand investments?
Can he exercise impartial judgment?
Is he alert to markets and trends?
Has he had a wide experience in the
management of properties and
estates?
TAXATION:
TRUSTEESHIP:
Is he conversant with the intricacies
of tax legislation?
Is he alive to his responsibilities as a
trustee? Can he be unbiased in
decisions? Will he be continuously
available or pre-occupied with his
own affairs to the neglect of his
duties as your trustee^
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd. brings to trusteeship and estate administration an
expert knowledge gained by the successful handling of thousands of estates. Its services “go on for ever,”
are continuously available. Ample security is given for the performance of trusts. Consult your solicitor,
or write for Free Booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd,
BOARD OF DIRECTORS;
Sir Alexander Stewdrt (Chairman); Sir "Lennon
Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Coiman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young}
W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
401 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
and 1 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £966,706.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
NEW SOUTH WAI.ES DIRECTORS*
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman) j
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Sir Lennon
Raws, C.B.E. N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Powdery.
THE [?]
COLUMN
Herald & Weekly Times, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Di vi dends ,
r^— Pref. N Re-
Sept., Profit.* 64 p.c. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.!
£ £ £ £ £
1943. .223,954 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 7
Written off. £44,216.. .. ... J
253,280
From staff fund, £10,000 . . . . 263,280
Post-war restoration res. £128,592 391,872
1944. .225,058 8125 16,500 14 p.o.=154,000 1
Written off, £42,550.. .. ..)
395,755
1945. ,251,170 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 468,300
Inner reserves disclosed, £40,184 .. 508,484
From tax reserve, £70,511 .. 578,995
1946. .254,140 8126 16,500 14 p.c.=164,000 654,510
From tax reserve, £15,773 .. 67Q,283
1947. .245,821 8124.16,500 14 p.c.=157;406 734,074
From tax reserve, £19,786 . . 753,860
Premiums, new issue, £396,000 .. 1,149,860
1948. .292,330 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=180,800 1,236,765
Surplus sale investments, £243,546.. 1,480,311
Surplus paper pool, etc., £105,110. . 1,585,421
From tax reserve, £24,642 .. 1,610,063
Depreciation, £236,219 .. .. 1,373,844
1949. .275,681 8125 16,500 14.1 = 204,000 1,420,800
* Includes provision for depreciation,
t After ’deducting intangibles, now £250,000.
Latest accounts of this big publishing
house mirror preparations to meet
stronger competition in Melbourne’s
morning daily-newspaper field, as well as
for continued expansion of the under-
taking, particularly in the rotogravure
section. In Melbourne the co. turns out
two dailies (“Sun” morning and “Herald”
evening), four weeklies (“Weekly Times,”
“Sporting Globe,” “Listener In” and
“Woman’s Day”) and three monthly
journals (“Wild Life,” “Aircraft” and
“Home Beautiful”). It also owns, two
broadcasting stations (3DB and 3LK) in
Victoria, and holds substantial share in-
terests in the “Courier-Mail” (Brisbane),
“Advertiser” (Adelaide) and in Australian
Newsprint Mills (Tas.), a venture which
the co. pioneered and which proved a
lifesaver to many Australian newspapers
during the period of newsprint shortage.
Since the “London Daily Mirror” and
“Sunday Pictorial” cos. bought a con-
trolling interest in the Melbourne “Argus”
a lot of new plant, with offset color
attachments, has been installed there pre-
paratory to “extension of publishing acti-
vities.” The new control denied a sugges-
tion that it was considering publication
of anew evening paper—the “Herald” is
Melbourne’s unchallenged broadsheet in
this field—and said that the “Argus,” one
of the “Sun’s” morning competitors, Was
to continue as “an independent news-
paper”—its political outlook has become
less intense and more flexible.
Although the “Sun” claims a daily
circulation (422,000) more than three
times that of the “Argus,” H. and W.T.
is letting no grass grow under its feet.
It has further strengthened its overseas
news service, and is pushing ahead with
a big programme of plant modernisation
and development.
To ensure financial freedom, and
to help cushion the heavy cost
inevitably associated with establishment
of new publications, both liquid re-
sources and reserves have been strength-
ened. The holdings of ords. in News,
Ltd., and of prefs. in Advertiser News-
papers were sold, and at the same time
a further 141,260 £1 ords. in the Adver-
tiser co. were bought. This consolidation
of H. and W.T.’s Adelaide interests
yielded a cash profit of £243,546, which
has been set aside as an “investment-
realisation surplus.” A further surplus
of £105,110 net resulted from the winding-
up of the newsprint pool (£178,650, less
£75,000 tax provision) and sundry gains
(£1460). This, together with £179,509
from the post-war restoration of stocks
and plant fund, making £284,619 in all,
has been set aside as a reserve for
development and deferred expenditure—
and “we will certainly spend some of
it,” the chairman says. The rest of the
war-time accumulation in the restoration
fund (£189,985) and £46,234 from the
year’s trade earnings (total £236,219)
were used to write down the book-value
of plant. And there was a further gain
of £24,642 from overprovision for taxa-
tion in 1948.
Increased advertising and circulation
revenues, etc., lifted the year’s total in-
come by £1,031,407 net. But all the gain
and £1958 besides was gobbled by the
rise in the price of newsprint (average
£52 Is. 9d. a ton, up £9 7s. 6d.) and
other materials, wage-lifts and heavy cost
associated with a new publication,
“Woman’s Day,” converted from a fort-
nightly to a weekly since the close of
accounts: —
The profit claimed covered the pref, divs.
and 14.2 p.c. on ord. capital as against
16 p.c. for the previous term. Still, the
div,, steady at 14 p.c. since 1938, was
slightly increased to 14.1 p.c.
Profit shown in the introductory table
includes the p. and 1. allowance for
depreciation (£46,234, down £14,626).
This allowance was previously tossed
into the old reserve for restoration,
etc., but is now deducted from
the asset concerned. The £275,581 (down
£16,749) of profit thus shown covered
pref. requirements and 17.4 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 20.7, 18.4, 20.8 and 20.6
p.c. back to 1945.
Visibly the year’s gain in net assets
was £184,035; —
Despite the heavy provision for deprecia-
tion, the book-value of plant, etc., in-
creased by £19,650. The shrinkage in the
book-value of shareholdings was £196,020
and cash, etc., was strengthened by
£91,030. The net addition of £117,123 to
freeholds, etc., was largely on account of
the new rotogravure factory at Hawthorn.
Confident that th*e div. will be main-
tained, the market prices the f.-p. 5s. ords.
at 17s. (20s. a year ago), giving a return
of 4.1 p.c. at the current rate of distri-
bution. Net tangible cover is 9s. lid.
The well-protected prefs. are priced to
yield approximately 4 p.c.
Tutt Bryant, Ltd. (and Subsidiaries)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.f
£ £ & & &
5 p.c.
Brought forward, £62,578 .. .. 62,578
Private co. tax 1946 & 1947, £53,390 9,188
1948.. 52,649 — *54,247 — 7,590
Share premiums, £22,500 .. .. 30,090
1949.. 101,446 1875 10 p.c. = 17,684 81,887 111,977
* Includes £50,000 divs. paid before conversion
public co. and £4247, equal 10 p.c. thereafter,
f Subject to intangibles, £3000.
The extraordinary development of this
construction equipment business has been
due to the energy and enterprise of the
chairman, Leo Tutt, who used to be the
Sydney manager of Waugh and Joseph-
son, Ltd., and the exceptionally favorable
trading opportunities that war and post-
war conditions provided. With a capital
of £2OOO, or thereabouts, and some over-
seas agencies for heavy earth-moving
equipment, he set up on his own account
at Rydalmere, near Sydney, as recently
as 1938, Some of the agency agreements,
which totalled nine before war began,
included rights to manufacture under
licence. The business grew steadily, and
in 1943 became Tutt Bryant Pty. with a
capital of £12,000, which had advanced
to £40,000 in 1947. Since then the
growth has been rapid. The number of
agencies now totals 34, or more, and the
range of equipment handled and manu-
factured has greatly increased, too. It
includes dozers, scrapers, rooters and
loaders, as well as : road-surfacing, con-
crete-construction and truck-lift equip-
ment, dredging bubkets and refuse-col-
lecting units. And subsidiary cos. have
been set up in ail the mainland States,
The proprietary was converted to a
public co. in June, 1948, when paid
capital became £150,000, apparently by a
three-far-one exchange of scrip, • and
30,000 of the new shares were sold to
the public to provide the spread needed
for Stock Exchange listing. Earnings of
the proprietary for the three years to
1947 were :
Figures in the last line were subject to
private co. tax. Estimated net profits,
after allowing for taxation on a public-
company basis, were £21,404, 1945;
£23,278, 1946 ; £37,335, 1947.
From that point the introductory table
picks up the story. The 1948 profit of
£52,649 was 21 p.c. on the £150,000 of
capital. Last term sales took a leap of
92 p.c,, most of the increase being on
account of Australian-made equipment.
There was an “improved flow of imported
goods,” some of which might have come
from Army disposals at island centres.
Gross earnings (£371,882) shot up by
£136,063. A tight hold was kept upon
outgoings. Including tax provision
(£66,126, up £33,580), exes. (£270,436)
gobbled only £87,266 of the gain, leaving
the net result £48,797 stronger at £101,446.
That was enough to meet pref. require-
ments and show a juicy 56.3 p.c. on
average ord. capital. The board seized
the opportunity thus provided to
strengthen the prop for capital (making
it £111,977, subject to £3000 of intan-
gibles) by keeping the div, at 10 p.c.
Half-way through the term capital was
doubled by the issue of 75,000 new £1
ords. at a premium of 6s. each and of a
like number of 5 p.c. prefs. at par. The
new money, together with surplus earn-
ings, went mostly into stocks (up
£206,198):—
When the books closed, stocks, book
debts and cash, etc., exceeded outside
liabilities (including tax and staff pro-
visions) by £281,237. Still, leaving the
tax and staff provisions out of the reckon-
ing, there was 21s. 2d. of outside money
at work in the business for every pound
belonging to shareholders. To help
lighten the load, a further 75,000 new £1
prefs, were issued at par on December 7
last.'
The current term opened with a backlog
of orders exceeding last term’s record
sales figure. And when current com-
mercial demand eases hopes are that
large-scale public works will help to fill
the gap. Owing to the exceptionally
favorable conditions under which the
business has operated since it was formed,
it is difficult to accurately gauge its future
•earning capacity. The market counts
on maintenance of the 10 p.c. div. and
prices the ords. at 50s. 3d. to return 4 p.c.
The prefs. at 21s. 6d. yield 4.6 p.c. In-
cluding the new pref issue, net tangible
cover is 64s. 6d. prefs. and 29s. 8d. ords.
Cascade Brewery Cos., Ltd. (Hobart)
To Re-
June. Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1942.. 30,768 12 p.c. = 27,000 7
Written off hotels, £2500 J
1,268 124,085
1943. . 36,145 12 p.c. = 27,000 7
Written off hotels, £6200 C
2,945 127,030
1944.. 89,367 12 p.c. = 27,000 )
Written off hotels, £3400 )
8,967 135,997
1945.. 41,406 12 p.c. = 27,000 7
Written off hotels, £8600 f
5,806 141,803
1946.. 44,578 12 p.c. = 27,000 j
Written off hotels, £10,487 (
7.091 148,894
1947.. 42,733 12 p.c. = 27,000 7
Written off hotels, £9860 f
5,873 154,767
1948.. 43,860 12 p.c. = 27,000]
Written gff hotels, £6970 ]
To staff fund, £1341 .. j
8,549 163,316
1949.. 50,810 13ip.c. = 29,812]
Written off hotels, £4973.. i
To staff fund, £956 ..J
15,069 178,885
The market looks upon this co.’s scrip
(21s, paid to 20s.) as a holding proposi-
tion, with possibilities that should
strengthen with the continued expansion
of industrial activity and growth of popu-
lation in Tasmania. Owing to changes,
actual and potential, in the investment
climate, the price of the shares eased from
63s. 3d. to 60s. 6d. over the last 12
months, despite an increase in profit and
lift in the distribution. Shareholders have
had a steady 12 p.c. for the last dozen
years, with a U p.c. sweetener added last
term, making 13i p.c. for the year. On
that basis the return at 60s. 6d. is 4.4 p.c.
Visibly the cover is 35s. lOd. in net assets,
subject to reserves and any intangibles
there might be in the subsidiaries.
Main sources of revenue are: (1)
Approximately a half-interest in Tas-
manian Breweries Pty., which also rents
Cascade’s old brewery premises, (2) hotels
rentals, (3) manufacture of cordials, (4)
returns from two small offshoots —
Traders Pty., which is in the wine-and-
spirit business, and Cascade Fruit Pro-
ducts Pty., formed a couple of years ago
to supply fruit-juices to the cordial factory
and to mainland and U.K. markets.
All sections of the business are said to
be giving a satisfactory account of them-
selves. New bottling plants have been
installed recently in the brewery and
cordial factory, but shortage of glass con-
tainers has hampered activities, and con-
tinues to do so, in each sphere. Of the
extra £6950 of profit shown last term,
£5100 came from sale of one of the hotels
and £412 from excess tax provision in
1948. The gains from bigger trading were
offset by the growth of wage and other
costs. The £50,810 of profit was 22.5 p.c.
on the £225,000 of capital as against 19.4,
1*8.9, 19.8, 18.4 and 17.5 p.c. back to 1944.
So nothing had to be strained to send out
the 3d. bonus already referred to.
Since the policy is to reduce hotel pro-
perties, or most of them, to their land-
value, £4973 was written off the book-
value of freeholds (this in addition to the
ordinary allowance for depreciation) last
term, making the total written off in this
way over the last dozen years £62,839.
1)ie year’s net addition to the book-value
of hotels, etc., was £17,060, and to plant
£6056: —
And, notwithstanding the outlay on
fixed assets, the excess of outside liabilities
(including tax provision) over more-or-
less liquids (excluding shareholdings) in-
creased by only £5245, making the figure
at £75,224.
* Includes depreciation.
* Excluding tax reserre, £118,000, 1947;
£145,000, 1948.


January 11. 1950 ££
Base Metal* in 1949 was followed by a sharp break (Ministry of Supply) prices fol-
The 12 months of 1949 was a in the markets in March, and lowed the American market until
period of varied fortunes for prices continued to ease until the devaluation of sterling in Sep-
baSc-meta! producers. America middle o| the year. For the five tember last, when the British
was, and still is, the dominating months to May the figure for quote for lead shot up by
influence in the market. The year lead fell from 21.5 cents to 12 £S34 15s., reaching £S122 a ton.
opened with record overseas cents a pound (a drop of over Again in sympathy with the
prices, the culmination of a con- 44 p.c.), rose to 15.12 cents for American trend, the figure had
tinuous nine-year advance in the August, and eased to 12 cents at eased to £S97± a ton at the close
average price level. In New the close of the year. of the year, a drop of over 20
York a slight downward trend With a small time lag, London p.c. from the post-devaluation
|
1
higher than the 1939 peak.
The yearly range of London
prices for lead, zinc and copper
for 1939 and for the last four
years compares as follows: —
Lead.* Zinc. Copper.
£S. £S. £S.
H. L. H. L. H. L.
1939 .. 25 14 85j 13 62 41
1946 .. 55 SO 66 81* 9S 62
1947 .. 90 70 70 70 137 117
1946 .. 112 00 108 70 110 132
1919 .. 123 75* 106 68 15S 101
ty&Fr*' ?
1: ■ ' ' ' ■
v.i
Ba*
1
per
bafc
was
infl
ope
pric
tim
ave
Yoj
January 11, 1950
a Metal* in 1949 was followed by a sharp break (Ministry of Supply) prices fol-
"be 12 months of 1949 was a in the markets in March, and lowed the American market until
iod of varied fortunes for prices continued to ease until the devaluation of sterling in Sep-
e-metal producers. America middle of the year. For the five tember last, when the British
», and still is, the dominating months to May the figure for quote for lead shot up by
jcnce in the market. The year lead fell from 21.5 cents to 12 £S34 15s., reaching £S122 a ton.
ned with record overseas cents a pound (a drop of over Again in sympathy with the
:es, the culmination of a con- 44 p.c.), rose to 15.12 cents for American trend, the figure had
tous nine-year advance in the August, and eased to 12 cents at eased to £S97± a ton at the close
rage price level. In New the close of the year. of the year, a drop of over 20
rk a slight downward trend With a small time lag, London p.c. from the post-devaluation
peak, but still nearly four times
•i
1 1
•T w»rr ■ys.zrrr' ww ■-.v.y. v
ja i
higher than the 1939 peak.
The yearly range of London
prices for lead, zinc and copper
for 1939 and for the last four
years compares as follows: —
Lead.* Zinc. Copper.
£S. £S. £S.
H. L. H. L, H. L.
1039 .. 25 14 85j 13 62 41
1946 .. 55 80 56 81J »S «2
1947 .. 90 70 70 70 137 117
1948 .. 112 00 108 70 140 132
1949 .. 123 75* 106 68 158 104
* Foreign. H High. L Low.
Closing prices for 1949 were
lead £S97f, zinc £S87i and
copper £S153. The extent of
London price variations (dif-
ference between high and low)
during 1949 were lead 38.6 p.c.,
zinc 45.2 p.c. and copper 32 p.c.
In Australia fixed maximum
prices for lead and zinc for local
consumption were lifted from
£A22 a ton for each metal to
£A35 for lead and £A40 for
zinc early in 1949. The figure for
electrolytic copper (buying price)
was lifted from £A160 to £A180
a ton at end March, 1949. All
three metals have since remained
unchanged at the higher figures.
Australia consumes over 25 p.c.
of its lead output and about
44 p.c. of its zinc production.
Overseas buyers are thus heavily
subsidising local consumers, as
well as providing most of the
profit for Australian lead-zinc
producers. Copper has to be
imported to fill the gap between
local production and local
consumption.
The market for the scrip of
lead-zinc producers has largely
followed the market for the
metals. Here is what has hap-
pened in connection with three
of the Barrier cos.: —
— 1 North B H VpW
i v
Bj
1
Em.
m
>>>«
t <
No. 1 DESIGN: SIZE 3'4f" HIGH, 571" WIDE
Place Your Order Now
Orders are now being accepted lor WUNDER-
LICH Terra-Cotta Fireplace Surrounds to No. 1
Design (os illustrated) also Surrounds for slow
combustion and Wondorheat Stoves. The glaze
finish is a mottled Cream-Buff,
Ask at local Hardware Stores, call MX 2411 or
write to Box 474 G.P.O., Sydney, for details.
flREPLACE SURROUNDS
l OP GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
IX
1.
Profit*—- B.n. South. B.H.
1948 .. £979.822 £916,246 £189,131
1949 . . 1,712,461 1,376,198 322,392
Diva.— ■
1948 .. 100 p.c. 110 p.c. 20p.c.
1949 .. 120 „ 130 „ 20.,
SharMt —
28/12/’48 87/- 51/6 45/3
30/ft/’49 61/- 39/- 28/-
29/9/’49 65/- 52/9 38/3
5/l/'50 86/3 48/6 33/10
• • ■ ■ ••••
Ml
m
r'%l
mm i
■
i
No. 1 DESIGN; SIZE 3'4f" HIGH, 57*" WIDE
Place Your Order Now
Orders are now being accepted for WUNDER-
LICH Terra-Cotta Fireplace Surrounds to No. 1
Design (as illustrated) also Surrounds for slow
combustion and Wonderheat Stoves. The glaze
finish is a mottled Cream-Buff.
Ask at local Hardware Stores, call MX 2411 or
write to Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney, for details.
| IREPLACE SURROUNDS
I OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
IXL
[This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING— INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
WANTED KNOWN
For Quick, Clear, Inexpensive
RONEO or TYPING Work
THE INTEGRITY COPYING SERVICE
Ground Floor,
283 Clarence St., Sydney.
Bing tor particulars. MA 6679.
We collect and deliver.
The “ Curvilinear 99 Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
W&m.
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
' Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Base Metals In 1949
The 12 months of 1949 was a
period of varied fortunes for
bale-metal producers. America
was, and still is, the dominating
influence in the market. The year
opened with record overseas
prices, the culmination of a con-
tinuous nine-year advance in the
average price level. In New
York a slight downward trend
was followed by a sharp break
in the markets in March, and
prices continued to ease until the
middle of the year. For the five
months to May the figure for
lead fell from 21.5 cents to 12
cents a pound (a drop of over
44 p.c.), rose to 15.12 cents for
August, and eased to 12 cents at
the close of the year.
With a small time lag, London
(Ministry of Supply) prices fol-
lowed the American market until
devaluation of sterling in Sep-
tember last, when the British
quote for lead shot up by
£S34 15s., reaching £S122 a ton.
Again in sympathy with the
American trend, the figure had
eased to £S97i a ton at the close
of the year, a drop of over 20
p.c. from the post-devaluation
peak, but still nearly four times
higher than the 1939 peak.
The yearly range of London
prices for lead, zinc and copper
for 1939 and for the last four
years compares as follows: —
Closing prices for 1949 were
lead £S97y, zinc £S87£ and
copper £S153. The extent of
London price variations (dif-
ference between high and low)
during 1949 were lead 38.6 p.c.,
zinc 45.2 p.c. and copper 32 p.c.
In Australia fixed maximum
prices for lead and zinc for local
consumption were lifted from
£A22 a ton for each metal to
£A35 for lead and £A40 for
zinc early in 1949. The figure for
electrolytic copper (buying price)
was lifted from £A160 to £A180
a ton at end March, 1949. All
three metals have since remained
unchanged at the higher figures.
Aystralia consumes over 25 p.c,
of its lead output and about
44 p.c. of its zinc production.
Overseas buyers are thus heavily
subsidising local consumers, as
well as providing most of the
profit for Australian lead-zinc
producers. Copper has to be
imported to fill the gap between
local production and local
consumption.
The market for the scrip of
lead-zinc producers has largely
followed the market for the
metals. Here is what has hap-
pened in connection with three
of the Barrier cos.: —
Latest American advices indicate
a strengthening of demand for
most metals, suggesting a firm
trend of prices for the opening
period of 1950. The U.S.
market, however, remains a
volatile one, highly susceptible
to changes in business sentiment.
In his first annual review of
Australia’s mineral industry. Dr.
J. A. Dunn, mineral economist
to the Bureau of Mineral Re-
sources, etc., says the total
value of production increased
from £51,905,800 in 1947 to
£61,421,400 in 1948. Lift in the
figures was due more to rising
prices for lead, zinc .and coal
rather than to any appreciable
expansion in the volume of out-
put. Minerals whose production
value exceeded £1,000,000 were
coal (black and brown), lead,
gold, zinc, iron-ore, silver, copper
and tin. Those exceeding
£100,000 include zircon and
rutile, wolfram and scheelite,
pyrite, gypsum and shale oil.
Minerals of which domestic pro-
duction is likely to remain short
of local demand include
antimony, arsenic, chrysolite
asbestos, bismuth, chromium,
copper, industrial diamonds,
flake graphite, manganese,
mercury, mica, nickel, phosphate
rock, platinum and tin.
* Foreign. H High. L Low.
* Declared profit after allowing for taxa-
tion, depreciation, etc. f Market price ;
face value 5/- in each case.
THE
AUSTRALIAN PROVINCIAL
ASSURANCE
ASSOCIATION LIMITED
The Thirty-eighth Annual General Meeting of the
Association was held on the 20th December, 1949,
when Mr. Deslie J. Thompson, Deputy Chairman of
the Company, who presided, addressed the meeting
as follows:-
NEW BUSINESS
The New Business written during
the year totalled £1,134,565 carrying
Annual Premiums amounting to
£39,996. This New Business rep-
resents an increase compared with
last year of £54,495. A pleasing
feature also is the gradually increas-
ing average amount of each Policy
written, which for the year under
review was £523 compared with £498
and £344 respectively for 1948 and 1947.
INCOME—ORDINARY
DEPARTMENT
As required by the Life Insurance
Act, Revenue Accounts are shown
separately in respect of the Life
Insurance Funds and Shareholders’
Funds. Reviewing the Revenue Ac-
count of the Life Insurance Fund
and comparing it with the previous
year, it will be seen that premiums
amounted to £383,622, an improve-
ment of £23,808 and that net interest,
dividends and rents were £97,988
which is an increase of £9,814.
CLAIMS
Claims under Policies totalled
£154,513 comprising Death Claims
£87,663 and Maturities £66,850, and
compares with £165,903 made up of
Death Claims £80,262 and Maturities
£85,641. While the mortality rate of
the year’s death claims was slightly
higher at 61 per cent., it is neverthe-
less favourable compared with the
expectancy tables.
Surrenders which amounted to
£14,560 were slightly higher than last
year when they totalled £12,925.
EXPENSES
Commissions and Expenses of
Management show an increase of
£9,352 and based on premium income
they represent 22.3 per cent, com-
pared with 21.3 per cent. In the
light of continually rising costs, this
was to be expected, and the Board is
endeavouring to absorb these as far
as possible in the future by an expan-
sion of business.
ACCIDENT DEPARTMENT
Turning to the Revenue Account
of the Shareholders’ Funds (General
Account) it is pleasing to note that
the Accident Department Premiums
which amount to £43,514 show an
increase of £5,022; also that the net
interest, dividends and rents were
£6,517 higher at the figure of £26,396.
On the contra side of the account,
claims under Policies were up by
£2,947 on last year while expenses
also show an increase of £1,842.
The Accident Department is a
steadily growing one, and the Board
has recently made certain decisions
with the object of expanding this
section of the business. It will be
noted that the Special Reserve which
for a number of years stood at
£5,000, has this year been increased
to £12,000 which will facilitate the
expansion referred to. The increase
of £7,000 was effected by reducing
the amount of the reserve for un-
expired risks to a sum approximating
40 per cent, of the Premium Income
at which percentage it is a more
correct estimate.
SURPLUS
The surplus shown in the revenue
accounts reviewed, totals £95,560
(compared with £87,505 in the pre-
vious year) and has been dealt with
as follows: —•
Surplus from Life Insur-
ance Fund £65,408
Less bonus allocated to
Policyholders .. .. £50,258
£15,150
Less amount transferred
to Property & Invest-
ment Reserve .. .. £lO,OOO
Balance, transferred to
Profit & Loss Account £5,150
Surplus from General
Fund transferred to
Profit & Loss Account £30,152
BONUS TO POLICYHOLDERS
The Bonus to Policyholders costing
£50,258 maintains the same rates on
the various policies as were fixed by
the Board two years ago. The
transfer of £lO,OOO to Property &
Investment Reserve also follows the
course laid down by the Board last
year to build this reserve up until
it is considered adequate to cover
investment risks under present infla-
tionary conditions.
PROFIT & LOSS ACCOUNT
The Profit & Loss Account sets
out the year’s profits of £35,302
(being transfers from the revenue
accounts) and a carry forward from
last year of £1,462, making a total
of £36,764, which your Board recom-
mends in its report should be appro-
priated by paying a dividend of 5
per cent, absorbing £lB,OOO, trans-
ferring £17,000 to General Reserve
and carrying forward the balance of
£1,764.
RESERVES
Apart from the various reserves
appearing in the Balance Sheet to
cover liabilities under Policies, the
Association has built up Investment
and General Reserves now totalling
£189,351.
ASSETS.
The Assets now total £3,949,581,
an increase of £264,268 and com-
prise:—
Government
Stocks .. £1,583,780= 40%
Shares in Com-
panies ~ £1,045,461= 26i%
Freeholds &
Leaseholds.. £738,558= 18i%
Loan on Mort-
gage, and on
Company’s
Policies .. £425,133= 11%
Other .. .. £156,649= 4%
£3,949,581 100%
GENERAL
The Board has managed to keep
the surplus funds well invested
throughout the year although not
without considerable anxiety in
balancing judgment between safety
and earning capacity. It is in fact
becomingly increasingly difficult for
those entrusted with the task of in-
vesting surplus funds to feel confident
that present values are stable.
High building costs are a deterrent
to lending on mortgage or investing
in housing projects, while inflated
capital costs of business undertakings
call for serious thought whether on
this basis future production can main-
tain dividends.
The problem of stable values is
one that affects every member of the
community, not only those on fixed
incomes at the present time, but also
those who by reason of the large
growth of Superannuation Funds,
will to-morrow be on fixed incomes
from Superannuation payments after
their retirement.
In Australia a large measure of
instability arises from a general de-
cline in the per capita volume of
production on the one hand and
spiralling costs on the other. While
export prices remain high, they
counteract the effects of low produc-
tion and high costs, but should
export values drop suddenly (which
usually happens) we shall experience
an economic subsidence which will
have an unforeseeable effect on
capital values generally.
Before concluding, I wish to place
on record once again, appreciation
of the very successful work of the
General Manager, Mr. George Bruce-
Smith and the chief executive officers
—also that of the chief Medical
Officers —Branch Managers—and the
field and clerical staffs.


ŵ
IVORY
CANE-ITE
CEILING
reflects the softest white
light and keeps out Heat and Cold!
*
So easy to remodel that cracked, old ceiling.
Prefinished Ivory Cane-ite can be applied
right over any cracked surface.
Your new, beautifully panelled ceiling
catches and throws back the softest white light
—as well as insulating the room from roof
heat in summer and coldest conditions in winter.
Inexpensive easy to erect as standard
Cane-ite. Enquire from your local hardware
dealer or timber merchant.
IVORY CANE-ITE
A Product of
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division
Have you looked over
your will lately?
IF you have not revised your Will to meet
to-day’s conditions, the consequences may
be serious for someone who depends on,
you. Your responsibility to that someone
is too important to justify delaying until
some “to-morrow” that may never come.
Why not have a con-
fidential talk with one
of our Senior Officers
on the subject of the
appointment of the
Company as your
Executor and Trustee
—alone or jointly with
a relative or friend.
He will help you to
provide for the efficient
and economical settle-
ment of your Estate,
also for its efficient
management thereafter.
The final step of having
your Solicitor re-draw
your Will, should then
be a simple matter.
If you prefer , send
first, for a copy of the
booklet **Your Execu-
tor and Trusteelt
explains the services
offered by the Company
—and the charges ,
v
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.
(Chairman);
B. B. KNOX:
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT;
D. B. LYSAGHT;
SAMDEL HORDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS.
Managing Director,
A. G. ABMYTAQB. Manager
•
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68,000,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OT
ATTORNEY FOB ABSENTEES & OTHERS. ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA. TAM WORTH and ORANGE
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Sharemarket Reopening
Australian sharemarkets
opened with a bounce on Wed-
nesday of last week, B.H.P. lead-
ing the jump with a rise of 2s. a
share on closing quotes for 1949,
taking the price up to 555. 6d. in
Sydney; but Melbourne was
slower to move, and there was a
quick reaction to 545., with deal-
ings on Friday at 535. 6d, for the
fully-paids. The 155.-paids were
more stable throughout the
opening days at around 375.
The fully-paids at 535. 6d. repre-
sent the equivalent of approxi-
mately 61s. if one wants to go
back to a pre-new-issue basis,
and this is higher than at any
previous time, last week’s short-
lived peak excepted.
There has been a great re-
covery in B.H.P. scrip from the
low levels of a few months ago.
Last week’s closing price for the
fully-paids was 12s. above the
lowest quote for 1949, and the
contribs. are up over 13s. on the
lowest price paid for rights to
the new issue. The stock was
confidently recommended here
when the market was at its
lowest. Since then an increase
of £2 a ton has been allowed in
the case of the co.’s basic pro-
ducts.
Australian Consolidated In-
dustries, which had a strong rise
before the markets closed for
1949, has been fairly static since
at around 625. 9d. General In-
dustries, representing the
Metters-K.F.B. stoves-and-baths
enterprise, has been steady at
355, 6d. But Tooth has risen
from 84s. to 865., with Mel-
bourne breweries similarly
sought after, Bank of N. S. Wales
has jumped from £43 12s. 6d. to
£45 155., Henry Jones from
735. 6d. to 775. 3d., F. •H.
Paulding from 345. to 355. 6d.,
Adelaide Steam from 30s. 6d. to
31s. 6d. and Dunlop Rubber
from 435. to 445, Barrier stocks
have been inclined to droop
for some weeks, there being
a threat to their income
should the Australian pound be
revalued and brought to par or
thereabouts with sterling. Euston
Lead, however, had a strong rise
to 245. Mt. Isa has shown little
or no movement for some time,
and can be bought at 425. The
currency - revaluation prospect
hangs over this stock also, as it
does over the pastoral issues.
Though there has been a
strong opening for most shares
with the beginning of 1950, the
market is still not at as high a
level as it was in February of
1948. It will be remembered that
soon after a peak was reached in
the first quarter of 1948 there
was a short, sharp break, with
a recovery midway through the
year. And in 1949 there was a
slump following a strong open-
ing, the market suffering badly
from new-issue indigestion. The
amount of money asked for be-
tween April 1 and June 30, 1949,
was £20.3 million ; in the second
quarter the demand on the
market fell to £5.8 million ; the
final quarter, including the big
Courtauld issue, showed a total
of £ll.B million. It is unlikely
that issues as big as those of
B.H.P. or Courtaulds will be put
on the Australian sharemarket
during the current year, and the
“indigestion” factor is not likely
to be so acute.
The possibility of currency
revaluation is a “bear” point so
far as exporting enterprises are
concerned, but there are many
“bull” points in the market, one
of the outstanding being the
defeat of the Federal Socialist
Government at the recent elec-
tions. Private enterprise should
now get a fairer deal, and, even-
tually, there should be a more
regular supply of coal and other
essential raw materials and
services.
Rubtex Elastics, Ltd.
At this gloomy
point the career of
Rubtex Elastics, the
practical questions
are, how did the
company get into
such a mess financi-
ally, and can the
causes be rectified so
as to make trading
profitable?
Regarding the past
management of the
company itself, there
can be no two
opinions. Rubtex
Elastics was formed
as a public company
in July, 1948, to
take over from a
nine-year-old pro-
prietary business of
similar name. The
main lines of manu-
facture were fabric-
covered elastic, elastic corsets,
underwear and other textiles. In
Adgust, 1948, capital was in-
creased from £132,369 to
£300,000 by a par issue of
ss. ordinary shares to the
existing shareholders. These
shareholders promptly offered to
sell 517,7,08 of their shares at a
premium of ss. each (100 per
cent,). The memorandum of
sale, marked “not for public
subscription,” was circulated by
brokers representing the share-
holders. It quoted profits of the
business for the four previous
years, adjusting the figures to
allow for ordinary company tax
on a public basis:
• 1 Year to June 30 —•>
1945. 1946. 1947. 1948.
£ £ £ £
Profit before
tax .. 3,260 9,239 12,207 32,109
Estimated
tax .. 1,708 2,335 4,449 11,095
Net profit 1,542 6,904 7,758 21,014
But in the first actual year’s
trading as a public company
(ended June 30, 1949) the?' board
has not only reported a colossal
loss of £103,647 ; it has also had
to write off another £37,643 for
“adjustments to stocks and
allowances to customers in
respect of earlier periods," be-
sides £9143 owing in tax for
earlier periods.
As a result, the consolidated
balance-sheet now shows a net
deficit of £118,788, subject to
£19,983 of intangible assets,
which leaves each ss. share with
tangible asset backing of 2s. Bd.
•on book-values. This is entirely
represented by plant and fittings,
as any liquid assets are more
than offset by liabilities, includ-
ing the huge bank overdraft of
£320,537. The board has
scanty finances with which to
manoeuvre.
A long list of causes of this
shocking situation has been
given by the present chairman.
It enumerates delays in trans-
fer to new premises and instal-
lation of plant; loss of trading
connections through delivery of
faulty products; friction with
customers arising from the com-
pany’s policy of selling both on
the wholesale and retail mar-
kets ; overvalued stocks ; unsuit-
able management and lack of
competent staff; lack of
adequate records on costing and
stocks; lack of plant mainten-
ance ; “and other matters, which
necessitated complete reorganisa-
tion.” Soon after the present
board took office at the begin-
ning of last financial term it dis-
covered that “manufacturers had
booked up elsewhere and almost
unanimously refused to discuss
business with Rubtex.”
This is a pretty desperate
situation to retrieve, and the
chairman says trading is still not
on a profitable basis. Manufac-
turing and marketing methods
have been overhauled, a quali-
fied production manager is being
brought from England, consult-
ing engineers are / inspecting
plant recently installed at Pad-
dington (Sydney), and additional
“We're never busy around New Year."
plant has been ordered from
Britain and America. Directors
claim that a market is still avail-
able in Australia for their pro-
ducts; but, plainly, it will be a
very long time before those in-
vestors who paid 10s. or more
for their shares 15 months ago
will be able to realise anything
comparable with their outlay,
The current market is oscillating
between 3s. and 4s.
According to Mr. G. Mandel,
the founder of the Rubtex busi-
ness and managing-director of
the present company until last
month, not all the 517,708 shares
offered to outside investors at a
ss. premium in 1948 were taken
up. Only about 396,500 were
actually sold, Mr. Mandel says,
and the remaining 120,000 were
left with himself. He claims to
have sold none of the holding
until January, 1949, and together
with other members of his
family he still holds 211,450
shares.
Share returns so far filed with
the Registrar-General in Sydney
do not bring the story further
than December, 1948. At that
time Mr. Mandel and bis family
held a total of 455,602 shares.
But the actual outcome of
Mr. Mandel’s personal transac-
tions is not the most pertinent
aspect of Rubtex history. The
question that cries out for ex-
planation is how he and other
members of the original board,
if they really understood the
position, could ask strangers to
pay 10s. for these shares.


Missing Friend.
RUSSELL.—WILL ROBERT HENRY
RUSSELL, who was born in England on
Ist October, 1865, and was last heard
of in Sydney in February, 1921, or any-
one able to give information concerning
him, please communicate with the under-
signed.—HENSLEY & DOWNING, Soli-
citors, 147-153 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS *
E, R. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS.
G. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
AS PURE AS
THE TOBACCO
IT CONTAINS
m
m
fee
.
■:p-
-m
n't
ivvt
(V"
:»
i
M
[AC-349
“No wonder so many are becoming
Army Club-men again,” said the
Major. “The special ‘filigrained’ rice
paper is one reason. No other
cigarette has paper quite like it.
There’s no ink to spoil the flavour of
that perfect Virginian blend . . . added
to which Army Club are cork-tipped,
encased in protective flip-off foil and
each pack has a quick-zip outer
‘Cellophane’ cellulose film.”
10 for 1/H; 20 for 2/3
and proudly made in
Australia
Club h
rmy
AN
BE a
Smoke the Cigarette containing Rich Golden Leaf, Ripened by Sun, Mellowed by Time
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
Looking back over the past
year in Great Britain it is hard
to find many positive signs of
encouragement. A brilliant
summer, which proudly defied
tradition both by its sunny con-
stancy and by borrowing largely
from spring and autumn, is the
outstanding memory. But that
was nature’s splendid gift, and in
no way due to man’s husbandry
or government.
It can but seem on reflection
that John and Joan Briton are
worse off, actually and poten-
tially, than they were at the end
of 1948. The general election
was then a distant prospect, and
devaluation was a mere rumor.
Both have cast hindering
shadows over the year’s faltering
progress: the election because its
delay bred uncertainty and hesi-
tation, and devaluation because
its worse effects have still to be
felt.
Of devaluation, a glance back
to May shows, with faint pathos,
that there was then a strong
“opinion that the pound sterling
may soon be worth three and a
half dollars, perhaps only three
dollars” (a leading article in the
“Manchester Guardian”). Four
months later, “the alteration in
the exchange rate” (Mr. Attlee’s
phrase) brought its value to
$2.80. Sir Stafford Cripps, held
by many 12 months ago to be
the outstanding man of 1948,
broadcast the decision to the
nation in words that sounded
weak and unconvincing, and
thereby sustained a weighty loss
of political esteem. A few tenta-
tive remedies followed, but the
“cuts” seemed too feeble to stem
the rising pressure of inflation,
and may be held merely to have
carried the crisis forward until
the summer of 1950. Parlia-
ment failed to outline the true
situation to the people, and Mr.
Aneurin Sevan's plea to them
“to engage in an act of faith and
believe that what it [the Gov-
ernment] did was in their own
interests” did not prevent a
nation-wide rush to the shops in
the early autumn to buy the
more expensive household essen-
tials. The very dangers that
should have been met were
merely shelved.
Political
Politically, 1949 has been a
year of drift rather than transi-
tion. The declaration at the
Labor-party conference in April
that it promised “a buoyant age
of adventure, progress and
initiative” was perhaps as un-
related to our life and times as
the thunderous clouds of the
Wurlitzer organ that opened the
day’s proceedings. Foreign
visitors—and they should know
best —are astounded to find that
these qualities are lacking. Are
they the soonest to be stultified
by the Welfare State? The
Labor-party executive affirmed
that the new order of security
and prosperity would be achieved
by consolidation and nationalisa-
tion, mentioning industrial
assurance, cement, sugar,
minerals, water and meat distri-
bution as further instruments of
this new order. That was in
April, It later became evident
that nationalisation was losing its
appeal, even to deep'-dyed
Socialists. Co-operative interests
protested against nationalisation
of insurance, and Mr. Herbert
Morrison, as electioneering high-
priest, is believed to be very con-
cerned about sugar. (The present
loud and often undignified
squabble about election
expenses and whether industries
threatened with State appropria-
tion can legally spend large sums
of money in defending them-
selves may only be a red-herring.)
As well as much discontent about
the industries that have already
been nationalised, there has also
been unrest in the railways and
in the coalmines. Narrow poli-
tical considerations still tend to
overshadow the nation’s true
needs and recovery. The
Socialist programme is the sole
absolute factor, and its relentless
and arbitrary fulfilment the
chief design, however, much it
may be concealed or disguised.
It is true to say that many
envious eyes are turned towards
Australasia, for it would be so
comforting to know that the
elections here were over and
people were able to get down
to business with confidence and
enthusiasm.
On the other side, the Con-
servatives are marshalling their
resources with great effort and
energy. Their political machine
lacks nothing in power and ex-
tent. The biggest task before it
is the double one of breaking
down the lingering antipathy to
old-fashioned Toryism and the
barriers of class-consciousness
so persistently erected by the
Socialists. And here the Con-
servatives have much work to
do.
Churchill
The attitude of numb disin-
terest with which good citizens
of present-day Britain are apt
to regard the distressing trend of
world events has been described
by various commentators as
apathetic, listless and fatalistic.
In part, there is truth in these
observations; but only in part.
Perhaps no single word can
express this reaction, which is
made up of disappointment,
frustration and bewilderment.
General disappointment that
after six years of fighting the
world has turned out to be no
better than it was before, frus-
tration at being able to do
nothing positive about it and be-
wilderment at the seeming in-
efficacy of statesmen abroad and
politicians at home —all these are
factors that tend to drug the in-
quiring mind into a state of half-
weary resignation. They could
all be resolved by good leader-
ship.
Paradoxically enough, the
country seems to approach its
native unity only when the
leader of the Opposition goes
abroad, traditionally holds him-
self aloof from party politics,
and speaks to the world—as Mr.
Churchill, Those eloquent
phrases and graphic summings-
up are needed today as much as
when they helped us over
anxious crises. At home, Mr.
Churchill is quite naturally
associated with his party, and in
consequence his words lose
much in significance.
Moreover, it is known that
there is some embarrassment in
Conservative circles about the
party leadership. As a figure-
head who chose to leave the
closely-knit party organisation to
work out its own schemes, Mr.
Churchill’s prestige would be in-
valuable. So would it be if he
didn’t at times speak his own
mind and not the party’s. But
Mr. Churchill, being himself, is
likely to play neither of these
roles.
In 1945, many people were
sorry to see him step down from
inspired national leadership to
the factions of party politics,
although it was hard to see what
alternative he had, short of re-
tirement. Were he now to with-
draw and devote his powerful
influence to weightier affairs, the
country —and the Empire—
would be the richer and the
calmer for his moral leadership.
It is sadly missed.
Strikes
Industry has suffered its now-
familiar setbacks due to un-
official strikes and stoppages. A
tediously protracted strike upset
the railway system during the
summer. Ostensibly due to the
inconvenience of engine-crews
having to sleep away from home
on “lodging-turns,” the trouble
was really a manifestation of un-
easiness at the comparatively
low wages in comparison with
other industries. A particularly
distressing strike in the docks
had severe repercussions on life
in London and industry during
the summer. It lasted for several
weeks, occasioned a State of
Emergency, which amounted to
little more than proclamation,
an undignified fracas between
the chairman of the National
Dock Labor Board and the
Prime Minister, and demon-
strated the irresponsibility of the
rank - and - file towards their
accredited union leaders. In
retrospect the strike is all the
more distressing, since investi-
gation has proved that while the
men thought they were striking
on a broad and vital trade-union
principle, they were in fact
dupes of a few Communists who
were carrying out a world-wide
scheme of subversion that had
been plotted in Canada months
before.
Free Health
Of the National Health
Service, now half-way through
its second year, it is easy to be
brief. The 1944 estimate was
£132,000,000 a year. The nine
months ended March 31, 1949,
cost £185,400,000 and the esti-
mate for the current year is
£228,400,000. Mr. Bevan will
not indicate the expected cost.
The average general practitioner
is expert at lightning diagnoses
and the quick writing-out of
prescriptions. People who can
afford —and many who can’t—
go to their registered doctor for
everyday ills, but seek out a
private doctor if they want per-
sonal attention. Dentists are
overpaid, overworked and over-
tired. Opticians supplied
5,250,000 pairs of spectacles in
the first year, and 3,000,000 are
still on order. One-third of their
patients received two or more
pairs each. From sight-testing
to delivery of spectacles takes
eight to nine months.
Britons are no better housed
than they were a year ago.
Food, except for meat, is easier.
So are clothes —off the ration for
the greater part of the year—for
those who can afford to buy
them.
A backward glance at the arts
during 1949 is more encourag-
ing. There is also the astound-
ing march of television. A
summary of these developments
will be given in the next “Air-
mail.”


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
University women will be interested in
the announcement that two three-year
Fellowships are being offered by Newn-
ham College, Cambridge, both tenable
from October 1. The first Fellowship,
the Sarah Smith, valued at £250 a year
and open to women of any nationality,
will be awarded for research in
philosophy (including classical philo-
sophy), or psychology, or any other re-
search “promoting the study of the moral
sciences.” The Fellowship will be
awarded on a dissertation or other writ-
ten work. The second, entitled the
Wheldale-Onslow Memorial Fellowship,
is worth £3OO a year. It also is open to
women of any nationality for research
work in biological science, preference
being given to work in plant bio-
chemistry. Further details of these Fel-
lowships may be gained from the secre-
tary of the Victorian Women Graduates’
Association, Mrs. J. F, W. Ballantyne,
Plumstead, Vermont. Applications must
reach the principal of Newnham College
by May 1.
Mrs. Essington Lewis, recently
honored with an 0.8. E., is vice-president
of the committee arranging the gala
night of the Australian Guild of Fashion
Show which is due to open in the Exhi-
bition on February 16. His Excellency the
Governor has been asked to open it, but if
he is unable to do so Lady Brooks and her
daughter Jeanette have promised to be
there. Mrs. Lewis presided at the Town
Hall meeting called to iron out details.
Mrs. Jim Fitzgerald, who soon becomes
president of the Y.W.C.A., lent her aid
in a dove-grey linen frock and wide-
brimmed grey-straw hat. Mrs. Alan Tate
was among the committee members who
braved the heat; her nut-brown linens
went with a natural-toned straw hat.
Mrs. Isobel Green, sister of the Prime
Minister, wore a powder-blue-and-white
spotted linen frock and a matching blue
hat finished with white veiling.
Rear-Admiral and Mrs. C. T. M.
Pizey have made many friends since they
came from England. Now comes the
parting of the ways, for with daughters
Pamela and Sarah, who have been
gathering knowledge at . Clyde, Mrs.
Pizey sailed in the Stratheden for home.
Rear-Admiral Pizey, who has been head
of the U.K. services liaison staff in this
city, will ttay on until he hands over to
Major-General A. J. H. Cassels, who is
due to arrive in the Orcades. Then he
will fly to Singapore, and will join the
Stratheden in Bombay. Pamela and
Sarah will go back to their old English
school. The Abbey School, Malvern
Wells ; their long vacations will be spent
with their parents in Malta, for, after a
short leave in England, Rear-Admiral
Pizey goes there to relieve Admiral Lord
Louis Mountbatten as Admiral Com-
manding the First Cruiser Squadron. A
party to bid farewell to almost 200 of
their friends was given by the Pizey s in
their Toorak flat.
The pretty little church of St. Peter’s,
Mornington, was filled with guests for
the marriage of Katherine Mary (Nonie),
elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs. D. C.
Shuter, of Prahran, and Willoughby
Sidney, younger son of Lady Sewell, of
Berwick, and the late Sir Sidney Sewell.
Nonie’s century-old gown (it had been
worn by her great-grandmother) was of
hand-embroidered muslin with a two-
tiered skirt, the boned bodice being
finished with a lace berthe. Lady Sewell
lent the veil and Nonie carried a bouquet
of white roses. Bridesmaids were
Winifred Wright and the bride’s sister
Phillipa; their bouffant frocks were of
aqua-blue frosted organza, and they
carried deep-pink roses. Jill Sewell, the
bride’s small niece, was flower-girl; her
frock was of rose-patterned, aqua-blue
organza. Best man was Gordon Shaw,
and groomsman Dr. Peter Freeman. Re-
ception was at Greenlaw, Mount Martha,
the home of the bride’s aunt, Mrs. Clive
Fairbairn.
Trim and beautifully appointed, the
Tiayuan arrived in Melbourne after her
maiden voyage from England, and, at a
late-afternoon party given by Sir John
and Lady Masson, guests were shown
over the ship. A feature of the interior
decorations is the extensive use of Aus-
tralian cabinet timbers, especially those of
Queensland. In the veranda lounge, up-
holstery in block-printed linens and
cmtains, which combined dark and light
green and with an imprint of prancing
black horses, were most effective. In
the larger lounge murals by Oriental
artists toned in with the loose-covers and
shades on reading-lamps. Lady Masson
combined a pink-and-white-patterned
silk frock and a white grosgrain hat. Joy
Sandford, a visitor from England, was in
brown taffeta frock patterned in white.
Mrs. Bob Guthrie’s black-and-white-
spotted jacket-suit was worn with a
natural-straw hat. Patricia Ireland’s
tailored suit was powder-blue. A grey
flannel suit with a matching felt hat was
the choice of Mrs. J. Shepherd. Mrs.
James Rohan, who was with her medico
husband, wore a beige ensemble. Mrs.
T, H. Kellock had a lily-of-the-valley
trimming for her small white hat, which
she wore with a junior-navy tailored coat.
Dorothy Corbett offset her black suit
with a sage-green felt hat. Mrs. Ned
Holland wore mignonette-green crepes.
Margaret Carr’s navy frock had bands
of white linen lace. Elizabeth Bradshaw’s
floral silk frock was worn with a small
flower-trimmed blue hat.
Patricia Kennedy, who was a member
of the R.A.A.F. Nursing Service, has
announced her engagement to Dr. Bruce
Godfrey Hyams, who also served with
the R.A.A.F. Patricia is the only child of
Mr. and Mrs. W. Kennedy, of East
Malvern her father is chief of
“Hansard” staff. She trained at St.
Vincent’s, and after the war was on the
staff of Hamilton Russell House. War-
time service took Patricia to most of the
States, and she has just returned from a
three months’ holiday in New Zealand.
Dr, Hyams is the son of Mr. and Mrs.
Victor Hyams, of St. Kilda-road.
Nineteen-year-old Elizabeth Gibson is
playing Nellie in “Only an Orphan Girl,”
now being staged at the Little Theatre,
South Yarra. A Tasmanian, Elizabeth
has worked with the Hobart Repertory,
and is over here to try her luck. Work
with the A.B.C. and with the Little
Theatre has started her on her mainland
career. Photo by Athol Shmith.
Debutantes, it seems, are no longer
forced to wear the traditional white
dress, but may choose coral-pink,
champagne, azure-blue or any pastel
shade which captures the fancy. Cham-
pagne satin is used to make an infanta
gown, with shoestring shoulder-straps and
a huge skirt which swishes in the dance.
The boned bodice of this gown makes the
waist look smaller and the skirt more
bouffant, and there is just one touch of
sparkling embroidery centred on the
bodice. One design for an embroidered
Swiss muslin is cut ankle-length and worn
over many starched petticoats to make it
stand out. Diaphanous cotton in coral
pink is to be used to make a gown which
has two big poufs around the hem, whilst
the draped neckline slips off the shoulders.
White net, which always pleases, fashions
a gown which bares the shoulders and is
strapless, and the very bouffant skirt is
caught with robin’s-egg-blue bows.
Apricot-tulle, with a matching stole,
caught to form airy sleeves, is another
idea for the debutante, and a rose-
trimmed, shell-pink organdie is yet an-
other of fashion’s fantasies for the young
girl’s coming-out party.
Enjoying the water at Peterborough
are the Russell Coldhams and their
children Josephine, Rosemary and
Catherine. The Andrew Chirnsides are
at their lovely home on the cliffs, but,
alas, poor Andrew Jnr. developed the
mumps, which sent one guest with a
small baby back to town. Jane Chirn-
side adds greatly to the glamor of Peter-
borough when she dons her pedal-
pushers and Fair Isle jumpers. Forsak-
ing their home at Wamboota, near
Echuca, the Warren Moore clan are
established at Peterborough for the holi-
days. Mr. and Mrs. Holbeach have made
this seaside resort their headquarters
while holidays last, and Dr. Frank
Stevens, his wife and young son Frank
are also enjoying the sea breezes.
From Sydney
There are 144 entries for the Archibald
prize this year. The prize, notable
among art prizes of the world is £5OO. So
far this yearly award can scarcely be said
to have produced a portrait that would
rank with the world’s greatest. Why not
send each of the judges this year a copy
of the latest Christmas number of the
“Illustrated London News”? In its pages
are reproduced paintings famed through-
out the ages. In the portraits which have
won immortal fame there is nothing of
the bizarre or any suggestion of cari-
cature. Take two works, for instance:
the painting of Mrs, Langtry, “The Jersey
Lily,” by George Frederick Watts, and
that of Lady Lavery painted by her hus-
band. Styles in clothes and in painting
may have changed, but the beauty lives —
and will live. Incidentally, if the current
story of the Max Meldrum self-portrait
is true, then we can put the whole thing
down to ballet influence, probably
“L’Apres-midi d’un Faun.”
Eighty-five of the 144 entries have been
accepted for exhibition. Far more paint-
ings of men than of women are in the
swag—proving that man is the vainer sex.
He’s always got time to let some artist
reproduce his noble outline. Artist Mary
Edwards and Phyllis Shiliito, of the Tech.,
each send in a self-portrait, and Buck-
master has done Dame Enid Lyons proud.
This is an up-to-the-minute photograph
of Mrs. Frederick White, popular presi-
dent of the associates of the Royal Syd-
ney Yacht Squadron, Kirribilli. Mrs.
White was re-elected to the office at the
last general meeting of the associates.
Photograph from Norton Trevaire.
Letters from Rabaul tell of Merry
Christmas doings—back to normal in
spite of the war years and the
merry little Jap. There was a
children’s fancy-dress- and a Christmas-
party at which Santa Claus arrived in a
barge on the seashore at the New Britain
club. There was a huge Christmas-tree
laden with gifts for every young guest.
There were lots of prizes for the fancy
costumes and all sorts of goodies to eat.
For grown-ups there was a cocktail- and
buffet-supper at the hotel, and later a
dance at the new night-club, “the first to
come to present-day funny old Rabaul.”
A ball at the New Guinea Club on New
Year’s Eve and earlier in December a
presentation by the R.S.L. Amateur
Dramatic Society of “The Man in the
Bowler Hat” and “Cinderella” at the
Administration Mess in aid of the R.S.L.
Building Fund were other gaieties. The
R.S.L. started on a building just three
weeks before and it opened for business,
though not completed, just before Christ-
mas. When they build the large hall and
club-house they will run a dance every
Saturday night.
Gladys Hight, well-known dancing-
teacher of Chicago, now visiting
Sydney, recommends ballet-dancing as
good exercise for the businessman. The
Girl in the Flat Opposite agrees with her.
It would teach them to watch their step,
to balance correctly, to sit on boards
gracefully, to take elevation easily and to
bow to adversity.
Kirribilli-ites are all up by the
sight of the famed yacht Cariad I from
Capetown, South Africa, now lying off
the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron, On
the evening of January 23, after the
monthly general meeting the crew of
Cariad I will tell to members and
associates the story of the run from
Capetown to Sydney. The yacht
came by way of Panama and called
at out-of-the-way places like the
Galapagos Islands and Easter Island.
Following the success of the Livingstones’
yarn of their voyage across the Pacific
and home again everybody expects a
grand night. And if this weren’t enough,
the conservative old club is going
to be all merry and bright with
a barbecue early in February. This
will be another family affair, and
will run from 6.30. Shutters up at 9.30.
The chapel of St. John’s College, within
the University, blessed a picturesque
wedding one morning last week when
Helen Roberts, elder daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. J. Roberts, married
George Downing, who is second son of
Colonel and Mrs. Downing, of Merton,
Dubbo. The bride, who had been an
almoner attached to Lewisham Hospital,
wore a frock of soft white organza closely
beaded in silver. Her four bridesmaids
billowed in white broderie Anglaise, pink-
satin-sashed. Their hats, tiny cloche
affairs of the white broderie Anglaise,
had each a spray of fresh pink rosebuds.
The wedding reception was at Rancliff.
Letters froiji the John Wilkinsons of
Kirribilli, who are visiting Bombay, tell
of long lazy days spent watching cricket.
They have been made temporary members
of the Cricket Club of India, It is a super
place, with swimming-pool and lovely
stands. The onlookers from Australia
sat in huge cane armchairs on the edge
of the boundary and in the shade all
the time. Timetable for their day
runs: Go to parties or entertain
about 10 a.m., rest after lunch,
tea about five, cocktails and dancing
from 6.30 to 9 at one of the numerous
clubs, then dine in or out about 9.30 or
10. The dance bands, Mrs. Wilkinson
reports, are extremely good, and the
weather is not too hot, so parties can
really be enjoyed. Incidentally, the
travellers say there are only about 4000'
Europeans in Bombay at the present
time.
A good resolution for N.S.W. house-
wives for 1950 would be to buy at least
one copy of the “Carry On” cookery
book. The new edition of this splendid
kitchen guide is being sold for the benefit
of the Totally and Permanently Disabled
Soldiers of this State. From the sales
they hope to furnish their new club-
rooms. Already 30,000 copies of the
book have been sold for patriotic, philan-
thropic and missionary, purposes. The
author, Annie J. King, now in her 90th
year, has a touching foreword for “the
brave boys who have given almost more
than life for their country and liberty.”
In addition to almost 200 pages of
closely-packed recipes, there is an appen-
dix of hints and wrinkles. This alone is
worth the 4s. 6d. for which the book is
sold at all booksellers, bookstalls and
newsagents.
Raida Catip, younger daughter of Mrs.
H. Catip, and the late Ms Catip, of
Rockhampton and Townsville, was
married to Michael Walker, of Rose Bay,
at St. Mary’s Cathedral last Saturday.
Raida’s family was represented by her
sister Freda as bridesmaid, and her
brother Victor, who came from Towns-
ville to give the bride away. Reception
was in the Kent-roorn of the Australia.
The bride’s frock was a gleaming model
of satin embossed silver lame. With it she
wore a hat of white feathers. The brides-
maid’s ice-blue slipper satin had an off-
the-shoulder cape collar encrusted with
gold beading.
Word came from London recently of
the death of Louisa Macdonald. This
lady, still r’emembered by students
of the ’nineties and up to the
years of World War I, was prin-
cipal of the Women’s College within
the University for 28 years—she was in-
deed the first principal of the college. To
Sydney of the ’eighties and the ’nineties
this young Scotswoman brought all the
enthusiasm for knowledge which had
made her a noted classics scholar in
Edinburgh and London. She was a Fel-
low of University College, London, and
a worker, under Dr. Alexander Murray,
at the British Museum on Greek and
Latin inscriptions. For some years past
her home had been in London, but she
had entertained countless Australians at
Ballintruin House (a family inheritance),
in Perthshire, in the beauty of the High-
lands.
Pretty Stephanie Edye, who was known
in Sydney as a graceful ballet dancer and
an exponent of the Spanish dance, sends
greetings from Paris. Her good wishes
to Sydney friends are conveyed on a card
showing a glorious view of the Sacr£
Cceur basilica in the Rue de la Bonne.
Whether this year’s elections go well
or ill with his Government England’s
Prime Minister, Mr. Attlee, is all set
with a quiet country home. He has
bought a nice old-fashioned place called
Cherry Cottage, near Great Missenden,
in Bucks, Its owner, Mr. Peter Stedall,
sold it for £9500, This house with its
pleasant, but not extensive, gardens, is
only a few miles away from Chequers,
the official home of England’s Prime
Ministers. Evidently Mr. Attlee desires
the air of the Chilterns if not the Chiltern
Hundreds.


ẁ
ẃ
4/6 or/ze'x t=>e4jc/£
ẅ
COLOURS
w
ŵ
5
it
0
0
No other colour
pencil equals the
“Derwent” for the
superfine quality of both
lead and wood, the purity and
brilliance of the primary colours
and the delicacy of the pastel tints.
In all 72 accurately repeated colours,
no refinement has been spared to obtain
the highest degree of light fastness and
general permanence. The colours mix and blend
well in both wet and dry applications; effects
similar to water colour and tempera may be obtained by
applying solvents such as Dekalin. Unquestionably, the
“Derwent” will measure up to your most exacting demands.
If unobtainable from your stationer, kindly contact your nearest agent.
I Supplied in neat attrac-
tive stand eases in the
complete range of 72,
or in 36, 24, and 12
assorted colours. Also
boxes of 12 separate
colours.
Representatives in Australia
Vic.. S. Aust. and Tas.: HUBERT JOHN SON PTYLTD 324-330 FlindersSt.,
MELBOURNE, C.I. N.S.W. and Queensland: WYNYARD TRADING CO.,
Kernbla Bldg., Margaret St., SYDNEY. W. Aust.: CHAS. A. DONALD
Economic Chambers, William St., PERTH.
ADVERT OF BRITISH PENS LTD.. BIRMINGHAM. ENGLAND.
ẁ
CHARTS
Circular Charts for ail typos
•I Recording Instruments
for any class o* MschUiary
or Equipment
METER CHARTS • Spaciah?
J AC 'mows OSIILI VAN }bM
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
FASTEST AIR ROUTE
FROM SYDNEY TO
HJirrKONG
RBV
A***/ >O-1
M?*rS
ss
k-
s\
7>JW
ss^
&v*
vj
cCCCC
re
\
Vi\
cc^c
CC
s
HONG KONG
LABUAN
DARWIN
SYDNEY
Shortest, quickest air route to
Hong Kong is by Q.E.A. Ser-
vice via Sydney, Darwin and
Labuan. Comfortable Sky-
masters operate on a regular
schedule —fly you there in less
than 2 days from Sydney.
First-class steward service—
excellent meals served in the air.
Enquire now from your local travel
agent, or
IHi
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
in association with British Overseas Airways Corporation
QC7
SUNDRY SHOWS
"The Pirates."
“The Pirates” was revived,
after six years, at Melbourne
His Majesty’s with the weather
outside resembling an English
Christmas, in sharp contrast to
the weather on the rocky coast-of
Cornwall, which was bright and
sunny. The sun shone on Mr.
Bernard Manning, whose make-
up as the Pirate King suggested
a Gothic gargoyle, on General
Stanley’s beauteous wards and
on his even more beauteous
daughters.
Gilbert’s polysyllabic wit and
Sullivan’s bright pseudo-
Mozartian music added to the
general sunniness of the pro-
ceedings, but nothing was more
sparkling than Helen Roberts,
who is the real star of the en-
semble. As the ingratiating
Mabel she was arch and lovely,
and her sweet and expert
soprano threatened to raise the
level of the piece to grand opera.
Her singing of “Poor Wander-
ing One” was delightful.
The Toriest of Gilbert and
Sullivan addicts could have found
no fault with the production’s
observance of traditions, and as
a model major-general Mr. Ivan
Menzies succeeded in getting
through the evening without a
single reference to moral re-
armament or Dr. Buchman.
This restraint had its effect upon
his acting, which was so sub-
dued as to be almost static,
though nonetheless effective,
John Dean, though not equipped
by nature with all the allegedly
necessary adjuncts of a hero,
made an amiable Frederic.
“Trial by Jury” was the cus-
tomary curtain-raiser. As the
learned judge Mr. Leslie Rands
gave a humanity to the proceed-
ings, a bit of which would have
been welcome during the 123
days’ sitting of the Royal Com-
mission on Communism in a
court adjacent.
* * * *
“lolanthe” was the best per-
formance of the current Gil-
sullivan season. Gilbert’s fantasy
of the British Lord Chancellor
who married a fairy got a superb
production from Anna Bethel,
Gabriel Joffe’s orchestra sur-
passed itself in rendering some
of Sullivan’s most tuneful music,
and tenor John Dean and bari-
tone Leslie Rands, as the two
melodious lords who demand
competitive examinations as a
passport to the peerage, were a
first-class combination.
“Take my tip, Abdul; put your money into magic carpets. They'll keep
pace with soaring costs.”
Marjorie Eyre showed
imagination in the name-part,
and Richard Walker made Pri-
vate Willis’s criticisms of the
party system one of the high-
lights of the evening. Nobody
has yet accused Ivan Menzies
of being able to sing, but as the
guardian of a lot of girl wards
who could sing he displayed him-
self in his best form.
"The Residuary
Legatee."
Jean Fran 9 o i s Regnard’s
comedy of the dirty scratching
old miser and his nephew and
two servants who scheme to in-
herit his fortune against a horde
of other relatives is, as the In-
dependent Theatre accurately
describes it in the programme
for its current performance, a
“gleeful comedy.” It is also a
delightfully wicked piece, and,
as such, should be produced and
played with the players gleefully
savoring and enjoying their
wickedness.
That is the main shortcoming
in George Simpson-Lyttle’s pro-
duction at the Independent; with
one or two happy exceptions it
is produced and played so care-
fully—with an almost decorous
conscientiousness in fact that
one would have gladly pardoned
a few minor histrionic slips to
see the cast figuratively throw
their caps in the air and go for
the piece with enthusiastic
wickedness.
Leigh O’Malley as the miser
is a long way ahead of the rest
of the cast —scrubby and itchy,
with the vermin almost apparent
in his voluminous rags and wig
and for ever voicing his querulous
mistrust, he sets the other players
an excellent dramatic target for
their plotting and scheming.
Bill Eldridge, as .one of the ser-
vants, comes closest to being as
funny and as wicked as the play
requires—on one or two occa-
sions he is all of that only to
slip back to precise and careful
histrionics. Mary Bartholomew
makes a noisy and occasionally
funny little chatterbox of the
other servant, but doesn’t make
her anywhere near as naughty
as she could be.
Harold Hinton’s nephew is
anctimonious —as he should be
—but too heavily so. The rest
)i the cast leave a good deal of
;omedy still in their lines.
"Is Your Honeymoon
Really Necessary?"
One good question deserves
another, and is “Is Your Honey-
moon Really Necessary?” really
necessary could be a relevant
query concerning the new show
put on by the Carroll-Fuller
Theatre Co. at Melbourne
Princess. Not that the show
isn’t good from its own view-
point, It aroused almost con-
tinuous laughter on the night
the present commentator saw it.
He couldn’t help wondering,
however, if by some strange
miracle the taboo on sex in
modern society were lifted how
much laughter there would be
at the antics of Clifford Molli-
son as the husband landed with
two wives on the first night of
his marriage with the second,
the first spouse turning up with
a blackmailing claim for £3OOO
and asserting that her divorce
was bogus, A Trobriander
would find them as incompre-
hensible as a poem by T. S.
Eliot.
The overriding assumption.
however, being that sex is nice
but naughty, Mr. Mollison’s
most insignificant remark has
great point. He is a clever
comedian with a fund of funny
gestures and a wealth of facial
expressions, and juggles the
situation between two wives and
two bedrooms with a ceaseless
flow of wisecracks which, as the
saying goes, never trespass be-
yond the bounds of good taste.
June Clyne is sumptuously
arrayed physically for the scene
of alleged seduction in which
Ronald Fortt, as the husband’s
lawyer, skates stiffly over thin
ice to a happy ending. Helen
Franklyn, taking the evening off
from “The Glass Slipper,” plays
the second wife with great arch-
ness. It is difficult to be an
original butler, but Michael
Duffield plays the role with a
dry wit that lifts stage butlers
into a new class.
Ante Soljanic.
A young Yugoslav tenor who
has settled in Australia and
whose debut at La Scala under
the aegis of Gigli was upset by
the war. Ante Soljanic made his
first bow to a Sydney audience
at the Town Hall with the Syd-
ney Symphony Orchestra under
Joseph Post.
In that lush aria “E Lucevan
le Stelle” from “Tosca” the
singer at once made it plain that
he has a natural tenor, closer to
the robust than the lyric in
weight, and of excellent quality.
His style is the orthodox bel
canto beloved of the Italians,
with a moderate shot of passion
as prescribed. His top notes
generally ring true and clear,
though in the “O Paradise” from
Meyerbeer’s “L’Africaine” with
which he bracketed the Puccini
number he ran into a slightly
rough patch which rendered a
couple of stratospheric notes off
dead-centre.
In the Lament from Cilea’s
“Arlesiana” the tenor’s breath-
ing showed the need for less
tension and a greater facility.
Nevertheless, he shows splendid
promise, and his voice is a defi-
nite acquisition to this country’s
music.
The orchestra opened the pro-
ceedings with a lively reading of
the Overture of Weber’s
“Oberon” —the snap and sweep
of the string section here was a
treat. The four movements and
the Finale which comprise Bach’s
Sixth Suite were pleasantly
enough played, though a shade
too mathematical. There was
rhythmical delight in the two
Piedmontese dances of Sini-
gaglia, Op. 31. In Ibert’s
“Divertissement” Mr. Post let
the orchestra off the chain, upon
which they performed the
frenzied bits of barminess which
the Frenchman has strung to-
gether and called a “work.”


The CAT and the HUNTSMAN
BY J. H. MELVILLE
<< K I Q foxes in this country? Then
|\| save me your cats, O’Driscoll.”
I 1 Deeds of New Zealand’s
1 1 colonists may have been recorded
without those words. Without mention,
either, of The Huntsman, who spoke
them. But to a generation who saw him
age and die —an exhibit of disgrace be-
hind Thumwood’s fish-shop—they are
pioneering history.
Cats shared with The Huntsman this
last haunt. As if, in hunting O’Driscoll’s
aristocratic Ginger half a century before,
he had drawn for a lifetime the wrath of
the tribe, they plagued him mercilessly
now. They came to mock him —dainty
cats, battle-scarred marauders, mangy
cats and cats that just didn’t care.
Perched on his tree-stump in the sun, his
legs twined round the manuka stick which
he gripped with both hands, he would
wait in ambush behind drying oysier-
sacks. He kept guard there like some
monstrous praying-mantis, fantastically
old.
Through gaps in the sacking he would
blearily contemplate the dis-
order of Thumwood’s yard.
Crates littered the place. In
odd corners potato-plantations
grew through rotting dumps,
and around refuse-buckets flies
would be buzzing excitedly.
Those buckets were crammed
with the morsels cats dream
about, and The Huntsman placed them
craftily as bait.
The old man had studied feline cunning
and patience. Seeing a cat come stepping
warily through the crates, he would un-
twist his legs with such deliberation that
his dangling boot-laces would scarcely
tremble. Only the hand that clutched the
manuka stick would shake as he lay
back to strike. He would catch up his
lower lip with strong brown-stained
teeth. Then when the prowler was judged
within range, the stick would come lashing
out from behind the sacks. Each time he
struck he missed. The cat, seeming to
feign surprise, would amble back among
the crates to plan out another way of
approaching the buckets. Only stray
speculators took him seriously. Regulars
of Thumwood’s yard knew that the enemy
never emerged, from behind its shelter of
sacks. Then once again the old man
would wearily hook his legs round his
stick and lapse into immobility.
WIRES stretched across a comer held
the smelly sacks, one end running to
a fence and the other to the washhouse
wall. Behind a cobwebbed window, set
level with The Huntsman’s head, a
woman’s round red face would
periodically bob up like a balloon. This
was his daughter Elsie, the wife of Arch
Thumwood the fishmonger, and in this
way she kept an eye on him from inside
the washhouse. .
She would occasionally bring a
customer through from the shop, too, to
see the interesting way that her fathers
neck was scarred, though he was unaware
of the pointing and whispering that went
on behind Jhe window. Matt Crae, the
builder, having been one so favored, had
there and then sketched a copy of the
bluish, script-like symbols to take home
and show his father, who was bedridden.
And Lai Harnbee, another to see them,
had been so impressed that whenever a
pig was killed at her place across the
stream she would send the old man over
a parcel of pork-bones.
“All our people at Home rode to
hounds,” the fishmonger’s wife would
boast, displaying the marks proudly as
scars of the hunting-field.
Actually, as she would explain —though
with no more than a patronising flicker
of a smile —they were the outcome of her
father’s cat-hunting venture, but the idea
was the same. If he had fallen from
grace, at least he’d had somewhere to fall
from. And that, she would hint, was
more than could be said for Arch Thum-
wood’s people.
But to be considered along with these
marks adorning the back of The
Huntsman’s neck was the imperious
twist to his nose, a reminder yet of the
foolhardiness that could prompt a man
to set his dogs on a publican’s pet cat.
Now, though, all the spirit—the scorn
for O’Driscoll’s doting and for cat-
lovmg sentiment in general—had been
damped out in his eyes He had the same
ballooning face as his daughter, Elsie
Thumwood, but of a drabness
that merged with the plaster
wall behind him. He wore a
a cap, tipped back, and the
twin shocks of crinkly grey
hair that ran down over his
ears lent an aspect drolly
suggestive of a porridge-pot
boiling over. Thus, from his
shelter of oyster-sacks, the old man
guarded the yard.
<< r* ATS! ” youngsters would cry as they
sauntered past Thumwood’s hedge
on their way to school. But no signs of
wrath ever came from behind the sacking
screen to sweeten the taunt, so that it
became mere habit, lacking malice. Un-
less there was wind enough to flap the
sacks apart and show The Huntsman
perched there clutching his stick, the cry
was purely speculative.
However, the day came when the cry of
“Cats!” was warning indeed. The refuse-
buckets lay askew, their contents being
pawed about by growling scavengers who
shared nothing. The Huntsman had died.
And the tribe of O’Driscoll’s Ginger had
won at last.
Elsie Thumwood may have lost proot
of social standing when her father died,
but the township lost an interpreter of an
era. Personal testimony to the days of
early settlement had been withdrawn.
FOR generations of young scholars to
whom the cry of “Cats!” at Thum-
wood’s hedge can mean nothing,
pioneering times may well be a re-
moteness befogged in dates and names.
They will have no such relay-point of ex-
perience as was The Huntsman. ,
The bearing of actuality will be lacking.
They will go sliding down the loading-
chute of the flourmill without bothering
themselves about the date when the first
sack of flour was sent down that same
chute. And the best apples in Darnels s
orchard will be as readily found without
knowing that the
land was once
coaxed from flax-
covered swamp.
There will be
thrushes and
blackbirds nesting
along the stream,
too, that had not
been there before
white men came,
and big trout
lying under the
weeds; but they
will be no safer
from young
poachers because .
their origin is unsought. All these will
be of the present —and real.
But The Huntsman’s character was the
character of the past, and by his own
existence he could evoke in impression-
able young minds a, vision those times.
His cat-hunt was a stimulus. The Plough-
man Hotel, where the chase had begun,
still stood on the comer, appearing to
settle more sedately with age; and th#
yard, where pandemonium had broken
loose, was still bounded by stables—
though they had, through diminishing
need, become store-sheds, with their roofs
cluttered by odds and ends tossed up to
weigh down loose iron. Cocksfoot, waist-
high, overgrew the headstones, in the
oldest corner of the cemetery, through
which The Huntsman and his wild dogs
had raced, but they were still there.
Subtly, behind the figure of The
Huntsman, a pioneering background was
conjured up. . , , x
When he died something of the truth
was denied to generations who can know
him only by hearsay. What they learn of
the district’s early settlement will be of
other aspects, under other influences.
There will still be, for example, the
monument on Dobson’s Hill. A stone
pioneer, it stands there, grimly virtuous,
brooding over the pageantry of the plain.
From its base, wheat-sheaves and crossed
adzes are raised as symbols of industry.
The Pacific, rolling behind, strikes a
white outline along a succession of grassy
headlands, and the road curves along the
coast to pass before him.
Full-bearded and with one knee flexed,
he presides over his handiwork below.
Roofs that cluster in a sun-haze to form
a dimly-seen township leap out garishly
red when rain sweeps up from the lake.
Gorse hedges in spring cut
yellow lines across pasture and
crop land. And the railway,
marked by the course of
silver-poplars, runs parallel
with a stream flowing through
the swamp. There are sub-
stantial homesteads of a type
that was built when holdings
were larger, and bungalows hugging the
road-lines. This was what the pioneers
had begun, and the stone figure on Dob-
son’s Hill stands as a proud claimant.
nr HE HUNTSMAN could not be
1 credited with achievement like this.
Judged by these standards he was a
failure. But even so he had won for him-
self a notoriety of a sort that set him
apart. , ,
His nickname had come out of that
arrogant demand made over half-a-
century earlier, when Mick O’Driscoll,
with his wife and ginger cat, had been
running the
Ploughman
Hotel:
“No foxes in
this country?
Then save me
your cats, O’Dris-
coll.”
O’Driscoll’s
response had been
fierce enough to
cause a weedy ex-
citable porter to
ponder fearfully
two days later,
“Nothing! Mick
says nothing.
Better if he had; there was bloody
murder in his eyes.”
The porter, as he had spoken, had been
dancing, shadow-sparring round a horse-
trough on which sat a coachman.
Occasionally, the coachman had nodded
and made as if to ward off fancied blows*
He was a saturnine, weatherbeaten man
and affected nonchalance. His real
attention was on the back porch of the
Ploughman Hotel, where the publicans
wife, a raw-boned woman with her hair
dragged back in pigtails, made a pretence
of hissing angrily at a ginger cat she was
chasing out. She was pretending also to
ignore the coachman’s tender grimaces.
“Here’s somebody coming as’ll hunt
old Ginger for you,” said the porter, hark-
ing to the sound of hoofbeats.
The time was half an hour before noon,
and The Huntsman was due in from the
survey camp to meet the through coach.
HAVING coyly met the coachman’s
appraisal, the publican’s wife had
backed into her kitchen, and the cat was
strolling across the yard, when The
Huntsman, astride his shaggy hack, turned
in at the gate. His twb half-wild
retrievers slouched alongside.
He rode loosely—insolently —and was
dressed in tweed of an outrageous check.
“Tally-ho,” the coachman bantered by
way of greeting.
The Huntsman nodded curtly.
Insensitive to the rider’s temper, the
porter called, “Yoicks,” and, guffawing,
pointed to the ginger cat round the corner.
“There’s your chance, John Peel.
The Huntsman stopped in the act of
dismounting and swore. *TH give you
yoicks!” , ,
Swinging back into the saddle, he
urged his dogs to 1 seek out the startled
cat. They bounded forward yelping.
O’Driscoll’s cat met them magnificently.
Swelling with indignation, it crouched,
spitting and defiant. Then it broke. And
clumsy skidding clowns it made of the
dogs. The Huntsman drove his horse
into the dusty melee. At this the cat
leapt over one snapping dog, ripped the
other down the nose in passing, and
sprang up on the horse’s back, it hung
there with its claws sunk desperately
The noise brought Mrs. O’Driscoll
running out. Rather senselessly, she
began flapping her apron and crying,
“Shoo there!” .
The horse reared, terror-stricken,
bolted. Out the gate they flew,
The Huntsman swearing
mightily, O’Driscoll’s cat rid-
ing with its claws, and the
yelping dogs.
The two men ran to the gate.
Close behind, the publican’s
wife came tripping across,
holding her skirt.
By that time the sound of hoofbeats
had ceased. Horse and rider were gone
from sight. A whitc-coatcd grocer stood
under his veranda gesturing as if to
despair of such madness as he had just
seen. A gang of roadmen hurried
across the road and disappeared.
THE porter’s eyes, bulging at any time,
threatened now to shoot clean out of
his head. “They must have gone into the
cemetery.”
“He’s a good rider,” observed
the coachman, taking it on himself gladly
to comfort Mrs. O’Driscoll.
The publican’s wife had apparently
taken the cat’s fate for granted. She was
a dour type of woman and hid her
feelings. Her concern was with danger
from another direction. She said,
“Mick’s over getting his hair cut just
now.”
“There’ll be murder,” the porter de-
clared, almost hopefully. Mick 11
murder him. Nothing surer.
“Cats is hard to hurt,” said the coach-
man. He made it a vow spoken into the
woman’s eyes.
The pot-bellied man who acted as
sexton was bearing down on them as last
as his waddling gait would carry him.
'T'HIS encouraged the porter to predict
1 further calamity,
“No peace in cemeteries now,” wheezed
the oncoming sexton. He was waving
away all hope of any such consideration,
this was the end of all decency,
peace anywhere.” He had, aweak hea
that frequently needed ‘ steadying and h
Ploughman never failed hum Did y°U


see him?” Puffing, he stopped at the gate.
“A lunatic on horseback! ”
The publican’s wife nodded. “He left
from here.”
“No peace now, say what they like.”
The sexton groped his way round the
yard and sat down on the trough to rest.
“Into that scrub he goes with those dogs
barking after him. And that fancy hat
hanging over his eyes.”
Suddenly apprehensive, Mrs. O’Driscoll
asked, “A hat? He had no hat when he
left here.”
“Didn’t he?”
“It wasn’t a ginger hat?” she asked.
“Aye, missus, sort of yellow.”
“Good heavens!”
The coachman hastened to assure her.
“It must have climbed up there away
from the dogs. It would be safer
there.”
“A cat!” exclaimed the sexton, on
being told how the rider had got his hat.
“Gawd save us! Through the cemetery
like that. A cat?” He shook his head.
“You’d go to a circus to see a man riding
like that with a cat on his head.”
The prophet of violence had no doubts
now. “There’ll be murder.”
“And quite right too,” the sexton said,
speaking with the regard of a tippler for
a publican’s pet.
“Just wait till Mick gets back.”
But time passed and still O’Driscoll had
not returned,
INSTEAD, it was the arrival of The
I Huntsman that broke up speculation
among those
gathered in the yard.
His face had lost
some of its color,
and round his neck
there was a blood-
stained bandage. His
forehead was criss-
crossed by scratches.
At the sight of him the sexton bounced
up from the trough. “What a hide! ”he
stormed. “Don’t you know a cemetery’s
a sacred place? You’ll know it before the
trustees have done with you.”
“You’d better go for your life,” the
porter warned, liking the idea of murder
less as it came nearer. “Mick was keen
on old Ginger.”
The Huntsman was awaiting the coach
mounted.
“The cat’s all right,” he said, and made
it plain that he had no more to say than
that.
And, despite doubts that were freely and
forcibly expressed, his assurance was
borne out; for Mick O’Driscoll returned
to find hjs ginger cat, ringed by admirers,
lapping at a saucer of cream and
holding its plume of a tail higher
than ever.
The publican had already heard of his
cat’s adventure. He knelt and made a
keen examination.
O’Driscoll had a soft plausible voice.
Lameness had embittered him and he
was a master of sarcasm. “You showed
who was the fox and who was the dirty
dog, eh, Ginger?”
Stroking his cat all the while, he made
mockery of the man on horseback.
Patrons were loyally amused. The
Huntsman heard him out without
answering back, allowing resentment to
spend itself. The publican’s anger was
soon lost in pride. “There’s none of you
here got the money that’d buy old
Ginger.”
ANY grudge he
*'■ may have borne
was dissipated when
he saw later what
his cat’s raking claws
had done to The
Huntsman’s neck.
He hailed the mess
as proof of the
animal’s prowess; and in this way The
Huntsman came to be granted entry to
the bar-room brotherhood of the Plough-
man.
Long after the ginger cat had died of
old age they were at it—The Huntsman
parading his scars like a warrior and
O’Driscoll nodding approval :
“My old Ginger, that could do every-
thing but speak.”
Then when the old man was able to
venture no further afield than his shelter
of oyster-sacks, there was his daughter
Elsie to show them off.
“He really was a huntsman, you know,”
she would say, pointing through the wash-
house window. “All our people at Home
rode to hounds.”
Whatever he was, a check on sentiment-
ality was removed when he died, and to
youngsters who shouted “Cats!” at
Thumwood’s hedge he was nonetheless a
pioneer.
JERUSALEM JOE
BY WILL LAWSON
JERUSALEM JOE was pushing his
handcart, which resembled a city
greengrocer’s barrow, up a steep hill
in the Cudgegong country. He was
a queer-looking old man, with Wide floppy
hat, baggy trousers and boots with gaping
holes. As he pushed, he perspired and
panted, for he had a heavy load on his
barrow—all his worldly goods.
Joe s barrow was his home. No cara-
van of modern times had more domestic,
as well as trade, goods in it than Joe
had in his barrow. There was a tent,
his mining tools, for he often fossicked
for a bit of gold, an axe, crowbar, a
muzzle-loading shotgun, blankets, pots
and pans; and, underneath it all, about
five hundredweight of firewood which he
had cut for his old friend Katie Murphy,
who owned the Erin Hotel at Cudgee.
“Jerusalem!” Joe muttered as he
pushed. “I only hope the wind’s favor-
able today, Joe, when we get to the top.”
He addressed all his talk to this in-
visible Joe. And he won his nickname
from his frequent use of the word
“Jerusalem.”
T - ' HAT hot day Joe must have had over
1 half a ton on his barrow, one of the
wheels of which had developed a squeal,
which gave good notice to travellers that
Joe was on the road. The squeal had
been there for weeks. Joe seemed proud
of it.
But his most treasured possession was
a flagpole which stood about seven feet
above the load.
Joe reached the top of the hill at last
and saw, stretched before him, the long
straight road to Cudgee. He sat down
on one handle of his barrow and wiped
his brow with a very dirty rag. After a
time he rose, muttering.
“Now for the weather report, Joe.”
He got out of a box a tiny blue flag
which he ran to the top of his little
flagpole. It fluttered bravely in the
breeze that was singing down the Cudgee
road. Joe swore.
“There you go, Joe,” he said aloud.
“Wind’s dead against us. Have to go
back, nothing else for it. Back we go,
Joe*”
He turned his barrow and started down
the hill again, hanging back like a horse
in the breeching as the heavy load pressed
on him.
“Too bad, Joe,” he muttered. “Elec-
tion-day, too. Must be election-day by
now. They told me, them coves in the
trap last week, it would be about today,
And I want to vote for old Henry Parkes
again, Joe,”
Thoroughly depressed, he wheeled his
barrow down to a flat where he had been
camped, and pitched his tent again.
“Too bad, Joe,” he said again. “What’ll
Katie say, waiting for her firewood all
this time. Must be three weeks we’ve
had this wind. A feller can’t sail against
the wind in a square-rigger, can he, Joe?
No, of course he can’t.”
A BOUT a week later Jerusalem Joe got
'"'up the hill again, after he had tried
five times, and found a fair wind blow-
ing for Cudgee. He laughed.
“There y’ are, Joe,” he said. “If you
only wait. Jerusalem! Life seems all
waiting—waiting for a fair wind.”
It took him two days to reach Cudgee
with his blue flag flying, which had been
his guiding signal all the way. Whenever
it blew backwards Joe would wheel his
barrow into the scrub out of the wind
and camp. So it took some time to cover
thirty miles. He reached Cudgee about
noon and found a group of idlers outside
the hotel.
“Good day, Joe,” they hailed him.
“How’s the wind today?”
“Tricky,” Joe answered. “It held me
back for a week at the Big Gully—must’ve
been a week. Is the elections over yet?”
“Elections? No, they’re tomorrow.
Don’t tell us you have a vote, a nipper
like you.”
“Too right,” Joe said. “I was twenty-
one last week. Who is there to vote for?”
“Well, there’s plenty. Which camp are
you in? Labor, Liberal or Independent?”
“Me? I’m Independent, same as Henry
Parkes. Reckon I’ll give him my vote
again.”
“Again? But, if you’re only twenty-
one, you haven’t had a chance to vote
yet.”
“Oh, yes. I’ve been twenty-one a long
time, haven’t I, Joe?”
“Who’s this Joe you’re always talking
to?” a rough-looking youth asked.
“Joe? Oh, he’s my mate. I always
talk to him. Anyway, I’ll be back to-
morrow to vote. How’s the wind?”
He ran up his flag, found it was against
further progress west.
“There you go,” he said. “Headwind
again. Have to go back to the Swamp
and camp.”
LJE was pushing his barrow away from
A t the amused group of men when a
woman’s voice reached his ears, an Irish
voice at that.
“Is that you, Jerusalem Joe, and
where’s my firewood?”
Joe stopped in his tracks.
“Sorry, missus,” he said. “I’ve got it
here—forgot it for the moment. Joe and
me did. Didn’t we, Joe?”
“Well, bring it round to the back now.
What stopped ye so long?”
“It was them headwinds,’ 4 Joe said.
“Nothing but headwinds for over a week.
A fellow can’t sail against a headwind in
a square-rigger/’
“The only square-rigger I know,” she
said, “would make a man sail right into
the eye of a hurricane, it would, if he
drunk the lot. Now, you loafers,” she
went on, “in you go into the dining-room
and have a square feed, and see if that’ll
stop you going against the wind. You
go, too, Joe.”
This was a daily routine with Katie.
After the regular diners had had their
meal, she sent in the lodfers for a free
meal. Maybe she was sorry for these
out-of-works, especially Jerusalem Joe.
She gave him two bottles of beer as well
as paying him for the wood.
“One thing, missus,” he assured her,
“it’s dead dry—been in the sun so long,
waiting for a fair wind.”
JOE missed the elections. He got to
Cudgee three days late, but he said
he had prayed for Henry Parkes to get in.
“Sure you don’t mean George Reid?”
a wag asked him.
Joe snorted angrily.
“What? Vote for old Yes-No? Him?”
He spat in the dust. “No, I like a man
with whiskers, I do. Let’s know if Parkes
got in.”
He went on his way, with a fair wind
and a squealing wheel to make him
happy. But Jerusalem Joe wasn’t ever
really happy. If he had been in the
islands he might have been happy with
the tradewinds always blowing one way.
His flag was his life worry ; always had
to watch his flag.
“No good, Joe,” he would say when
he turned out of his tent in the morning
and ran up the blue flag. Or again, he
would exclaim:
“Jerusalem! She a fair wind. Hop into
it, Joe! Get that tent down, roll up them
blankets ; make it snappy, Joe!”
Then he would go happily along with
his squealing wheel, making for wherever
the wind would take him. Not casually,
though. He always picked his direction.
In outlying townships people might
say “It’s been a westerly for three days.
Wouldn’t be a bit surprised if Jerusalem
Joe turned up.”
And when he did, sooner or later, he
would have sad tales to tell of adverse-
winds which had held him back.
T"0 load and fire Joe’s muzzle-loading
1 shotgun was a work of art. First a
half-handful of powder was shoved down
its muzzle, and rammed tight. Then a
wad,, and on the wad, in a small paper
packet screwed tight, a lot of small shot.
And that wasn’t all. For a percussion cap
had to be put on the nipple where the
hammer fell, and a priming of powder to
carry the fire from the cap into the charge
in the gun.
Joe didn’t use his gun much. If he
could trap rabbits for food, he never
bothered with his gun. But the day
came when Joe did want to use his gun.
Joe had decided to kill someone. Life
held nothing but sorrow, he told his mate
Joe, in long monologues they held on
their journeys, or when headwinds held
them in camp too long. At least that was
what Tom Long thought, Joe said.
Its no good, Joe,” Tom Long heard
Joe saying one day in the bar of the
Erin Hotel in Cudgee. “There’s nothing
in life, Joe. The time’s come, Joe, to get
out of it. A man’s better out of it.”
When Joe left the hotel for Big Gully,
with a fair wind fluttering his flag, Tom
and his mate, Harry James, followed him.
“The silly coot might do it,” Tom said.
A T Big Gully, when Joe made his camp,
they hid and watched, Joe loaded
his shotgun, which took him half an hour.
Then he set the gun in a notch in a fence-
post and fixed it here, pointing into a
small paddock. From his pocket he dug
out a long piece of string, a piece about
fifty yards long. He went back to the
gun, tied the string to the trigger, after
running it through the fence, so that when
he tugged on the string, it would pull
back the trigger. Then he aimed the gun
at a spot about fifty yards from the fence,
where he had laid a piece of paper to
sight on.
All was ready now for Jerusalem Joe’s
exit from the land of headwinds. Sud-
denly he remembered something. He ran
to his barrow, got out his flag and held
it in his hand, while he hurried back to
stand on the piece of paper. The flag
fluttered out. Evidently its direction
suited Joe.
“He’s going to do it,” Tom Long said.
“Not him. Wait,” Harry said.
Tom was right. Joe pulled at the string,
then turned his back to the gun. That
was all he had time to do before it
roared like a cannon, and Joe fell on his
face.
“The silly cow’s done it!” Tom said.
“Come on, he mightn’t be dead.”
They ran to Joe, who was moaning in
pain. His hand was held to the seat of
his trousers.
“Come on, Joe,” Tom said. “Wake
up. You ain’t dead.”
Joe only moaned. They lifted him to
his feet, and he gazed at them in an
agonised way. They held him, till they
felt where he was wounded, their investi-
gations hindered by Joe’s hand held
against the place.
“What happened?” Harry asked him.
“Wasn’t the wind fair for Hell?
“It wasn’t that,” Joe said. “The wind
was fair and all, and I had the gun trained
dead on the mark—and ...”
“Well, what?”
“I got the wind up, and turned to run
—too late,” Joe mumbled.
“Where did she get you?”
“Here,” Joe said, still holding his
trousers seat. And when they knew Joe
was not badly hurt, they almost died
laughing.
“Fair wind,” Harry giggled. “Fair shot,
and got him fair. Come on, Joe. We’ll
take you up to the pub and get the doctor
to pick out the shot. Stick up his flag,
Tom, in case it ain’t a fair wind.”
SO they wheeled Jerusalem Joe on his
last trip with his barrow, up to the
Cudgee Hotel, where Katie Murphy, not
the doctor, picked the shot out of Joe’s
anatomy —that was what she called it.
“And what for did ye want to kill
y’rself?” she asked him.
“I didn’t,” Joe said. “I wanted to kill
Joe-r—l’m sick of Joe. So I killed him.”
“Listen, my mannie,” Katie said
sternly. “It’s time you quit bucking against
them headwinds. Ye’ve got to drop
anchor here, in this hotel. There’s a job
for you here.”
And that was where Joe stayed. He
still flew his blue flag on a pole he stuck
out of his bedroom window in the barn.
But he never discussed the weather with
Joe anymore. He reckoned Joe was dead.
Infant in Arms.
Our granny’s nursery-lore was all my eye,
The modern mother lets her baby cry,
The brothers and the sisters stop their ears.
The imp’s contorted features, streaming
tears,
Would wring the heart-strings of the Knave
of Spades,
Rouse to a frenzy nurses and their maids,
And send poor Granny hotfoot for the
doctor
As if a locomotive’s snout had knocked
her;
But the young mother, unperturbed and
happy,
Darns the spent sock or hangs the abluted
nappy;
Meanwhile, alas, the unsuspected pin
Deeper and deeper probes the infant’s skin:
Thus starts the complex, full of loops and
twists,
Beyond the plummet of psychiatrists,
A tortuous labyrinth, centred in this pain,
Which Nosey Parkers will explore in
vasn
The clue they seek is walled up and con-
fined
In the abysses of the infant mind.
N.Z.
Arnold Wall.


THE POWER AND THE GLORY
By
GEOFF BINGHAM
NOBODY cared or had reason to
suspect that Mrs. Harry Wragge
was other than a genial soul. To
suggest to any Burtville citizen
that Mrs. Harry was of a possessive dis-
position would have brought a disbeliev-
ing smile. “Not Mrs. Wragge. Not old
Harry’s wife.” Old Harry had gone to
his last long rest, curiously enough with-
out much reluctance, as though it might
be his first, too; and Mrs. Wragge
womanfully continued on, probably with
the sole purpose of mothering and pro-
tecting her brood.
Young Harry, for example; how on
earth would young Harry get on without
Mumsey? Possible not at all. Even
Effie, his wife, had to admit that Mumsey
was a great help, most times to Harry.
And Harry, of course, did not deny the
fact, but was patently eager to agree that
Mumsey was a wonderful woman.
The strange thing about Mrs. Wragge
and her family was that they, each of
them had a different form of address for
their mother, With young Harry—now,
incidentally, in his forties —it was
“Mumsey.” With Carl, not long married,
it wag f> Mother,” and She, his wife, en-
couraged this form of address as polite
and flattering to no small extent. With
Jimmy, struggling out on his farm, it was
“Ma,” and with Jean at home, and now
not struggling at all, it was just “Mum.”
Ma, Mum, Mother and Mumsey—she
loved them all, the expressions of love
and adoration and dependence. Mainly,
although she would not admit it even to
herself, she liked the dependence.
“A struggling widow,” most described
Mrs. Harry Wragge, and yet it was hardly
so. True, Harry had disappeared into
that other restful world, but he had left
behind a solid unencumbered house,
solid unencumbered furniture, an excel-
lent vegetable garden, a fine apiary and
a teeny but regular income. To this the
boys added weekly contributions, all ex-
cepting Jimmy, who found it hard
enough to make money. His contribu-
tion was mere butter, home-made cheese,
fruit and fruit preserves, but his offering
was not neglected. Mrs. Wragge or-
ganised living in a businesslike manner,
and even managed to build up a mys-
terious, although only hinted-at, reserve.
Yet, for all that, it was accepted that Mrs.
Wragge was a struggling widow, since all
widows are by tradition “struggling,”
however poor or rich.
JEAN, if she did not work at account-
ancy like Harry, at running a
grocery like Carl, or at farming like
Jimmy, did look after the bees, burying
herself in their domestic habits, their liv-
ing and their dying, until the very sting
of them seemed to have entered into her
busy little form ; and she was a person
to be feared by all except Mrs, Harry
Wragge, who feared no one, possibly be-
cause she loved the world,
Mrs. Wragge loved all the world. She
loved the heathen in far lands, the enemy
in war, the enemy in peace, in Berlin and
Burtville, the wrongdoers and the
righteous. She was on everyone’s side,
both sides, too, and because of that had
few, if any, enemies herself, and was
naturally very much loved by her chil-
dren, this no less than her due, and a just
reward for years of “struggling.”
There never was any thought of Mrs.
Harry dying. None of the children be-
lieved such a thing could happen. Old
Harry’s death had been taken for
granted, and, in any case, it was an estab-
lished fact, and not to be argued about,
but none ever thought of Mumsey, Mum,
Ma or Mother dying. How could she?
She had always been there to help, to
advise, assist, organise. In her capable
hands problems hastily unknotted them-
selves, and by her hands all wounds were
salved. She protected Harry and Carl,
Jim and Jean from the very toughness of
life, and the strange thing was that they
fully believed this to be so.
She —Carl’s wife —was patently scepti-
cal of Mother’s tremendous ability, dis-
paraging about her power,
“After all, Carl,” she would argue,
“there are other women than your
mother, you know.” She, for example.
Carl, however, doubted. “Mother’s a
jolly rare specimen,” he would observe.
In equally high vein She would say
“But, Carl, you must snip the old apron-
strings, you know.”
“Apron-strings? Apron-strings?” Carl
would say in Nelsonic voice. “I see no
apron-strings.”
But they were there. They were there
all right. None knew it, not even the
neighbors or those intimately connected
with the family. They knew what Mrs.
Harry had “been through,” and they ad-
mired her for it, and when she helped in
her children’s weddings they said it was
really wonderful, and that there was an
example to follow; and yet none were
jealous of Mrs. Harry. They simply
applauded her, praised her at sewing-
circles, and committee meetings, and
socials and dances, telling her what a
fine job she was doing until Mrs. Harry
doing a fine job became quite a tradi-
dition, a custom, anyway, and a legend
almost. It was generally agreed that it
was due to her the family was doing so
well, and if Jimmy was struggling, then,
it was his own fault in some way and
not to be blamed upon Mrs. Wragge,
who couldn’t look after everything.
AND then there was the. Harry Wragge
home. A fine solid sort of home;
none of your modern utility homes, your
snug nook of small rooms and built-in
furniture. The Wragge home was solid,
in a cedar and redwood sort of fashion.
Weatherboard, yes, but cosy because of
that, and mahogany weatherboards no
less, and lined with redwood, architraved
with cedar and pannelled with the same
wood in the large dining-room. Mother’s
bedroom suite was also cedar, solid, and
even the second bedroom suite was cedar.
The dining-room table was cedar, too,
and the rest of the furniture, still solid,
was of oak and mahogany and the like.
Not too many scrolls, not very ornate,
heavy and pugnacious and very useful,
such as old Harry had never been.
The family, when it came home in thfe
weekends, would look at the furniture
and sigh, realising its tremendous value.
If it was Harry he would look at the
first bedroom suite and visualise it in his
own house, and Mumsey, watching him,
would drop a very quiet observation:
“Harry, my dear boy, that may even be
yours when I am gone.”
“Oh, no.” Harry would be quick to
protest. Anyway, Mumsey would never
die.
Gently, firmly, Mumsey would insist
it Had To Come, but while she was here,
and only while she was here, would she
use that bedroom suite. After all, Harry,
your father had shared it with her. But
it might be Harry’s alone when her time
came.
Harry, filled with melancholic delight,
would proceed down the Wragge yard to
work on the vegetable garden, and might
be found later, his jelly belly propped up
by a dutch-hoe, his soft brown eyes
staring into the blue dusk settling about
his shoulders. Mumsey’s great cedar
suite!
She liked the suite, too, and made no
bones about it, but She also was no fool,
and set her mind on the Japanese cabinet
of black-and-blue pieces and the French
clock.
“Carl,” she had breathed ecstatically
on her first visit, “you never told me
Mother had such a lovely French
clock! ”
And Mother watching quietly, nod-
ding quietly—“ Then Carl may find it is
his when I am gone.”
But Carl was all protests, and She
joined in, agreeing that Mrs. Harry had
many years yet, and more than them
probably; all of which delighted Mrs.
Harry in a sad sort of way.
JEAN would have been gone from
the house many years had it not been
for the grand-piano. It held her more
than money or love could have done,
bound her to the home because she be-
lieved there never could be another piano
like it. It was a fine specimen, to be
respected, loved and coveted, and Jean
longed for it with the bitter hope of pos-
session. When she was not at the piano,
playing it, or polishing or just looking at
it, then she was with the bees, but with
her mind on the piano.
Strangely enough, it was Jean of them
all who seemed not to get on with Mrs.
Harry. It was as though Mother stood
between her and the piano, and yet
Mother had given the piano, in a loose
sort of way, and she might even have
been able to take it from the house. Over
all was that unconscious agreement that
the house must not be broken, or its
furniture removed before the hour
Mother died ; and so Jean abided by her
possession and filled in her spare-time
nurturing bees,
Jimmy, when he came home and
brought his Milly, never seemed to notice
the furniture. He would be up in the air
about his farm, naively pleased about his
cows and crops. None seemed to care.
Harry, didn’t. He thought frankly that
Jimmy was making a mess of things.
Now, if he, Harry, had the running of
Jimmy’s farm . . • But, then, he didn’t,
which was more the pity. Carl would
smile and exchange glances with Her,
and She would smile tightly, for it was
agreed that Jimmy was not quite “class,”
and therefore, if tolerated, not to be en-
couraged. The truth was that Jimmy was
a bit ignorant.
Yet Mrs. Harry, if ever she was vexed,
had those moments over Jimmy and his
farming venture. If he raved about his
Shorthorns, then she told him his father
had always favored Jerseys, and if he
spoke about super, and number eleven,
then she told him his father would use
only farmyard manure, and as for
machine-milking, well, it wasn’t natural,
and his father would know best, he hav-
ing been on a farm most of his life.
Jimmy bore it peacefully, and even re-
proved Milly for her sceptical snortings
as they ploughed their way homewards in
the old Buick utility.
For some unknown reason the book-
case was to be Jimmy’s. Jimmy never
quite knew why. No bookcase was needed
to house his Farming Gazettes or his
Dairyman's Manual, but he patiently ac-
cepted the fact, and also he accepted
the sweet melancholy with which Mrs.
Wragge recalled that his father had
bought that bookcase on their first wed-
ding anniversary, a fact which in some
way threw the onus on Jimmy to be a
better man. Other beneficiaries bore no
such burden of sentiment, for their pieces
of furniture had been handed down a
number of generations.
There it was, and there it might have
stayed, this anticipation over pieces of
furniture, this subtly-woven thread which
bound them together as a family, this
will, unwritten, unspoken, a will that had
everything to do with the cedar suite, the
second cedar suite, the piano, the French
clock, a dozen and one pieces of furni-
ture, already established by the future
owners in this or that room of their
respective homes.
T T was Mrs. Wragge who suggested
1 they should hold a Conference. Not
any ordinary sort of confidence, of course,
such as for deciding what vegetables
Father’s garden would produce over the
winter, or who would arrange for the
firewood, but a conference about the
Will, because Mumsey, Mum, Mother,
Ma felt that she might not have long on
this earth. This, despite her steady
health.
Milly expressed deliberate scepticism.
“What does it matter, anyway, what your
Ma does? If you really want a book-
case, Jimmy, you can get one for a
tenner.”
“A tenner would buy me a nice young
heifer,” Jimmy said. “And, besides, we
haven’t got a tenner.”
“It doesn’t matter,” Milly said firmly.
“We don’t want a bookcase, and so there s
nothing to worry about.”
“So there isn’t,” agreed Jimmy. “Ex-
cept that Ma expects us to come along.’
And Ma did expect them. She
dressed herself in the best widow s
black, the finest of her old lace>
and folded her hands upon her
lap, and looked grave, seated as she
was at the head of the Wragge cedar
table. She even looked down at it, as
The Mullet-smoker .
I, an old woman tending mangrove fires,
Where shoals of sparks teem in their
smoky sea,
Watch the fingers of the dark cold grope
Across the blackened log to seize my
bones.
O, I remember 1 was once a log,
Brown as the sunlight on the winter
grass.
And in my heart I kept a silent fire
Whose scarlet sometimes rippled on my
lips; 4
The hidden coals that were my breasts
betrayed
Its sullen presence.
Then he came to me ;
Macca, the sea-one, who by sunlight
dried
And turned the mullet husks. By night
he lay
Beside my log and breathed it into flame.
Cool were his hands upon my burning
breasts,
His lips traced fire along their glowing
hills.
But he was driftwood. Soon the white,
salt ash
Devoured his firm flesh while my beauty
served
A smouldering feast beyond his appetite.
When he was drowned the salt swilled
back to sea.
And 1, by the world named old, lived on
alone.
Tonight he leans between the dark and
flame,
Macca, the sea-one, from that deeper
sea.
Beneath the ash that is grey hair, dull
eye
And bone inquisitive through smoke-dry
flesh
Leaps my old fire. O lover, strong in
death,
At last you find and steep my fiercer
star !
QUEENSLAND. ,
VAL VALLIS.


A
K
Pm/mt
until summer is nearly over •
and swelter day and night
IIKUMTI
your home NOW with
B.I.SLAG WOOL
No house, home, office or building is modern and entirely
healthy unless It is insulated preferably with 8.1,
SLAGWOOL.
Insulation
’Phones: Sydney 8X5584, Melbourne
viT’RSOfi Brisbane 83604, Adelaide C 7237,
Perth 1/3107
BIG- 18
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit
and Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activity.
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or l/2-| posted from
Bulletin Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
WHERE
CdCalatWA MOVE MERCHANDISE MOVES
POST-WAR DESIGN
OTIS ESCALATORS
INSTALLED AT
NARK TOY’S LTD.
SYDNEY.
New Installations
of Post-war Design
OTIS ESCALATORS
ADELAIDE:
BRISBANE:
MELBOURNE:
SYDNEY:
»
PERTH:
Myer Emporium
(S.A.) Ltd
McWhirters Ltd
Myer Emporium Ltd. ...
Manton & Sons Ltd
Anthony Hordern &
Sons Ltd.
David Jones Ltd.
Mark Foy’s Ltd
Boons Ltd
OtiA ESCALATORS MEAN ’
MORE TRAFFIC, MORE SALES,
MORE PROFITS . . .
This Otis escalator installation at Mark Foy’s Ltd., Sydney,
makes shopping easier, more enjoyable, by extending an
attractive invitation to visit every department without effort
and without waiting.
Continuously moving escalators move merchandise because
they cater for people-people who are tired and weary,
people who are impatient, people who are lazy and people
in a genuine hurry.
People plus Otis escalators mean traffic—and traffic in a
store means sales. A survey of your store may provide you
with interesting facts.
m
9
n
M
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UN.ITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA • FRANCE
though pondering secretly whose
it should be —Carl’s or Jimmy’s,
Harry’s or even Jean’s.
“It’s about the will,” she
said.
A flush of interest in Harry’s
face and no less in the fa6e of
wife Effie. Sharp concentration
in Her eyes, and deliberately
concealed satisfaction in Carl’s.
Queer contempt in Jean’s. Be-
wilderment in Jimmy’s.
It was at Jimmy Mrs. Harry
gazed, wistfully, gently. “It’s
Jimmy I’m worried about,” she
said.
All eyes were turned to
Jimmy. What had he done ex-
cept earn a trifle of contempt
for his unsuccessful struggle on
that poor farm!
“Jimmy,” repeated Mrs.
Wragge, nodding ponderously.
“I’m worried about Jimmy.”
The family was addressed,
Jimmy, on the outskirts, troubled
and confused.
“I’m all right, Ma,” he said.
“No need to worry about me.”
Very cheerful, Jimmy. Milly
smiling but not very happily, her
lips a trifle thinner than usual,
her light merriment vanished,
“I haven’t much longer,” said
Mrs. Harry, dwelling on the
dark thought. “And I want to
see everything fixed up.”
“But, Mumsey! ” protested
Harry, “You’ve got years yet.
You’ll see us all out, probably.”
“No, Harry,” said Mumsey,
refusing the kindly thought;
“we must settle this now.”
“Then what, Ma?” said
Jimmy uneasily.
“Jimmy and Milly must come
here,” said Ma. “Come and
stay.”
“Oh, no!” said Milly very
quickly and surprised into fear,
“I’m going well, Ma,” said
Jimmy heartily. “Don’t get it
into your head that I’m not.”
CARL looking bored, She in-
terested, Jean smiling with
some of the old contempt and
Harry pathetically anxious to
help Mumsey in her proposition.
“I think you should do as
Mumsey says.” This in a re-
proving voice.
“That farm isn’t going to help
Jimmy at all,” said Mrs.
Wragge, “He’s slaved and he’s
labored, and God knows it’s
near broken my heart to watch
him doing it.” A touching pic-
ture, and to be pondered before
Mrs. Wragge continued speak-
ing. “I think it will be best if
Jimmy comes and lives here. He
Could get a job in town and look
after the wood and the vege-
tables.”
Jimmy looked at Milly, and
Milly at Jimmy, tighter-lipped.
“We couldn’t do that, eh, Mill?”
“Jimmy!” This from Mrs.
Wragge, patient, long-suffering,
understanding, doing her very
best for her wayward child, and
he not understanding of course,
and knowing nothing of the
struggle of the years. “Remem-
ber, Jimmy,” she said in her
gently reproachful voice, “that
it is for your benefit.”
“No,” Jimmy said with sur-
prising firmness. “No, I
couldn’t, Ma.”
Silence for a moment while
Ma looks about with appealing
eyes. All must rally. Jimmy
must be saved from himself,
come here and live with Ma, he
and Milly, Jimmy to do the
wood and vegetables, and Milly
the housework. Mother will
look after them, love Jimmy
and possess him for his own
good, although not necessarily
for hers.
“Jimmy,” said Mrs. Harry.
“You must remember I have
called you here to discuss the
will.”
THIS last and awful word fell
upon the Wragge family and
induced complete silence, im-
mediate discipline, Jean think-
ing almost breathlessly about the.
grand, wanting to weep over it;
Harry thinking about his bed-
room suite; Carl about the
French clock, the lounge-suite
and the cabinet, and She think-
ing covetously about the same.
Jimmy, an age-old dread upon
him, for tradition and the legend
and the power of the will was
heavy upon him, its purpose
furrowed deeply into him. Milly
ablaze with suppressed anger.
“Yes, Ma,” said Jimmy slowly,
obediently, his eyes troubled.
Then a gradual puzzlement
coming into his face. “But I
don’t want the bookcase, Ma.”
“Oh!” Mrs. Harry was com-
pletely surprised, but very quick
to recover. “But you are to have
the lounge-suite, also. There, I
never told you that, did I?” A
finger poised, then pointed down
into the document on the table,
“I have fixed that —in the will,
here.” The rustle of parchment,
as awful as a dead woman’s
skin, as complete and final a
statement upon property and
possession as the world could
care for.
“Oh!” From. Jimmy this
time, and an uneasy side-glance
at Milly. Milly was still set in
the face, her hands clenched
tightly.
“No, Ma,” said Jimmy, his
puzzlement gradually clearing,
as clouds from the sky.
“And the property,” said Mrs.
Wragge dryly, throwing down her
cards. “You’ll be getting plenty
of that —if you come and look
after it for me.” Mrs. Wragge’s
subtle suggestion that Jimmy is
needed, and therefore an appeal
to cupidity.
The clouds dulled Jimmy’s
sky again. “Yes, Ma,” he said
in a very doubtful voice.
“Can’t be anything else,” said
Harry. Harry could not bear
to be left out. A second-in-
command he was, seconding and
echoing his chief’s tactics,
“But I love the farm!” A
sudden thought on Jimmy’s
part, a final appeal back to the
wall, or fighting against heavy
and overpowering waves.
The hand of Mrs. Harry was
very firm. Jimmy alone, if she
knew it, would be the one to
escape, and therefore was most
precious. Jimmy must never,
never leave Mother.
MRS. HARRY had reckoned
without Milly, or had not
considered her. Milly was
always bright, irresponsible,
really. “I don’t think I want to
leave, Jimmy.” This in a low
voice, which, however, all
heard.
“Then we won’t, Milly!” At
last understanding and triumph
on Jimmy’s face. A sudden
blaze of sunshine dispelling for
ever the tyranny of the gloom.
“No, Ma, wfe won’t. We’re
happy there, even if we’re not
making a lot of money.”
“Jimmy!” And this is an
awful voice. “Jimmy, if you
don’t come, if you don’t leave
that farm you won’t get the
bookcase.” None in the room
to laugh, either, and Ma’s voice
rising higher, becoming harsher
than Jean ever had heard it,
harsher than Harry suspected
Mumsey could be. “Nor the
lounge-suite, either.” Then, her
fingers pointed terribly at the
dry will. “And you’ll be cut out
of this altogether.” ,
Jimmy and Milly could only
stare, Milly at Mrs. Harry, and
then at Jimmy, and Jimmy, who
should have been cast down,
disappointed, repentent and peni-
tent, being none of these at all.
Jimmy, rising, his face begin-
ning to suffuse, his blue eyes
becoming bluer, his mouth open-
ing.
“But I don’t want anything,
Ma. I don’t want anything at
all. I never did.”
Harry obviously considered
this an awful lie. She was quite
sceptical and showed it. Jean
approved, though with reserva-
tions, and Carl was interested.
All of them, however, silent
characters in a drama about to
rise to bursting-point, for Mrs.
Harry was furious.
Said she, rising, “Jimmy, I
warn you. I’ll cut you out of
the will. You won’t get a
penny, and then where will you
be?”
BUT the old power was gone,
the ancient power and
glory and dominion was not for
ever and for ever. Jimmy rose,
his eyes blazing with delight, his
voice vibrant with new emotion,
something like an actor in his
first great part, but sincere for
all that.
“Ma,” he said, as deliberate as
she had been. “You don’t cut
me out of your will at all. Oh,
no. I cut myself out of it, see ?
I don’t want the bookcase or
the lounge, or anything.” Then,
with a burst of eloquence that
would never again be his, and
wth a touch of legal language
for ever to lift him to the ranks
of the brilliant, “I hereby cut
myself out of your will, and wish
for nothing, absolutely,”
The damning indictment on
Mrs, Wragge and all her power
was now uttered, and the words
could never roll back into
Jimmy’s lips, the conference be
un-begun, and the fine old power
of the possessor-of-the-possessed
be repeated. Milly, who knew
the new power and glory of it,
and the resurrection and the life
of her Jimmy; rose with a glad
smile playing about her relaxed
lips. She looked at Harry, be-
wildered and puzzled; Jean
triumphant, vicariously satisfied;
Carl grinning and Her
astounded ; and then at Mrs.
Harry, wrathful and astonished,
and even, for once, humiliated
to speechlessness.
“Come on, Jimmy,” she said
to him, taking his hand. And
then, with a faint show of
bravado, “Back to the cactus!”
And Jimmy took her hand,
mechanically, allowing himself
to be led from the scene of his
triumph and his crime, his heart
pounding madly with the de-
light of it, the heady wine of
his own power and the everlast-
ing glory of his release.


CLUStG WOKK NEEDS
LO W SURFACE BRIGHTNESS, YET
HIGH LEVEL ILLUMINATION
1
I
H
ms
M
I
m
L
r
wm
■
■
H
I
r
■
wm
I
■■ fi
m
m
I
:
m
■
£peee( Work mtk
CLAUDE COLD CATHODE
FLUORESCENT
LIGHTING
NEON
DISPLAYS
PORCELAIN
ENAMEL
The human eye is industry’s
most critical control device. Good
seeing conditions are, therefore,
just as fundamental to good
work as good tools, machines and
equipment.
To-day, Claude Cold Cathode
Fluorescent Lighting is regarded
by progressive management as a
production tool designed to pro-
mote product quality as well as
rate of output.
For restful vision, the eye needs
low surface brightness at normal
vision levels . . . even light distri-
bution with absence of shadows
and glare ... a comfortable detail-
revealing illumination level on all
working planes with good colour
discrimination.
There are other tangible benefits,
too lower lighting costs, low
maintenance. Your nearest Claude
office will be happy to tell you the
full story and give details of the
Claude Rental Plan, which avoids
necessity of incurring capital
expenditure.
CLAUDE
NEON LIMITED
SYDNEY - NEWCASTLE ■ MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH ■ HOBART ■ LAUNC-STON
The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6,
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
all States.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
a
Established 1808 in Reign of
Oeorge 111,
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPUING BTBEET, SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HILLTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots SOlb.
weight or over•
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane,
Postage paid on Cash with order •
Postage extra on C»O*D» Ordersm
THE SERVICE MAN
China to Pakistan.
“Ek Dum”: Confounding all
the great authorities on whom
the Sydney Press leans confi-
dently, President Truman has
announced that the United
States will send no military aid
to defend Formosa. Despite the
supposed support of General
MacArthur for such a policy it
would scarcely have been a sane
act on the part of the United
States if it had embroiled itself
on the side of the Nationalists
at this stage. They have shown
themselves bankrupt of every-
thing which can be expected
from a civilised nation, as little
civilised as the Communists
themselves.
Chiang Kai-shek was about
the worst horse backed by the
Western Allies during the war,
and the story of his rise to
greatness and his acceptance as
the head of one of the four
great Powers is a sad commen-
tary on the dangers of rule'by
newspapers, which are suscep-
’tible to any influence conveyed
in a loud voice—usually the
voice of Moscow, though not
always recognisable as such.
These newspapers accepted
the principle of veto in U.N.O.
limited to five great Powers.
And they accepted Russia and
China as two of the veto Powers
in good faith, despite all the
evidence that they could not be
depended on to play the game
according to the rules. Their
expectation of these Powers has
proved as false as most of their
other expectations. Chiang’s
China proved to be what every
knowledgeable man knew it to
be all along—a corrupt and
effete despotism with no backing
except the backing of force.
It is being replaced by a
Communist Government which
gets its orders from Moscow
and which lives only through
Moscow support. China’s main-
land is now as surely under
Kremlin rule as if Stalin had
transferred his capital to Peking.
And the nations are faced with
the prospect that his Govern-
ment will have to be recognised
as a de facto Government of
China and that it will claim, with
the support of Moscow and all
its satellites in Europe, that it
is entitled to a veto which it
will use in chorus with Moscow
on every occasion.
Formosa’s position
Formosa is the last strong-
hold of the Chiang Kai-shek
regime. It was a blunder on the
part of the Allies which made
this possible. It was Japanese
territory and had been for half
a century when it capitulated, and
one would have expected any
statesman with a modicum of
sense to include it in General
MacArthur’s Government as
part of the American occupation
area. Instead of that it was
handed over to Chiang on a
basis which the Powers now
seem to consider makes them
bound to leave it to be dealt with
as a Chinese domestic issue, sub-
ject to some economic support
to the Nationalists from the
United States, the announce-
ment of which will go strangely
with United States- recognition
of Peking if it eventuates.
w
At the same time Russia was
presented with islands north of
Japan, so that once Formosa is
handed over that country will
rest in an almost complete
Russian strategic pincer, the only
Western safeguards in the situ-
ation being the possession of
the Ryukyus by the United
States and the strange occupa-
tion by U.S. Forces of the “free”
Philippines.
India’s Plight
Eastern Asia has virtually
been given away by the inex-
perienced diplomatists of Wash-
ington and the Attlee Govern-
ment. It has been for several
years a sort of axiom in the
general presentation of the
events of the world that once
the United States, tough yet
humane and with no Imperial-
ist longings, should get control
of world trends the universe
would begin to settle down as a
family of contented and pros-
perous peoples. What has
actually happened is that the
“hair of Samson has been cut”
—the greatest and most unifying
force for peace and develop-
ment, the British Common-
wealth, has been weakened and
divided until it scarcely exists as
a force, each element in it which
was a force because of unity
having broken off into “a great
nation.” Among all these sec-
tions only one has really gained
in stature —Canada. Australia
has become involved in an area
of Asia of which we should have
kept clear, an area in which
within two years of being sliced
from the British Empire and re-
lieved of British pacifying influ-
ence India and Pakistan relation-
ships have so deteriorated that
India’s Deputy Prime Minister
(Mr, Patel), on January 4,
warned a Bombay audience that
“relations between India and
Pakistan have become so
strained and bitter that the
situation was capable of provok-
ing war.”
This speech, which was
scarcely reported in the Aus-
tralian Press, was an alarming
pronouncement on the verge of
the Colombo conference.
Mr. Patel said that Pakistan
had refused to deliver raw jute
to India before devaluation of
the Indian rupee and that over
the Christmas weekend India
had decided to suspend coal de-
liveries to Pakistan.
Since then a heated quarrel
has been in progress in which
the teeming and fevered Press
of both countries has been in-
volved, shouting abuse, recalling
past terrorism and crying out
for vigorous action. Both
Governments are stubborn and
unrelenting. And the word war
has been freely used.
Generally speaking, the two
Indias are on the way to becom-
ing another China or Burma,
restrained only temporarily by
the influence of the British
training and education to which
many of their leaders have been
subject. This influence will
largely disappear within the next
decade, if it does not fade out
within the next few months
under the influence of local dis-
sension.
The Vultures Wait
Russia is preparing for that
time. Loop railways have been
built linking great munition-pro-
duction centres with the main
routes entering Afghanistan and
India, and roads in those areas
have been improved. The area
centring on Tashkent and
covering the Persian border and
the Afghan and Indian
approaches is under command of
Marshal Timoshenko, his group
lying on an arc from the Caspian
Sea to the Himalayas.
This force is threaded on a
railway which runs from Kras-
novodsk on the Caspian Sea
opposite Baku towards Ash-
kabad. A main line from the
Volga runs through Tashkent
and then turns west to meet the
Caspian line via Samarkand,
Bokhara and Merv, which con-
trols the main route to India
from Tehran. This line ends
only within an hour or two’s
journey of Herat in Afghanistan
and itself covers all the Russian
entries into Afghanistan.
A little to the north of Tash-
kent an eastern railway swings
away through Alma Ata to join
the Trans-Siberian to Novosi-
birsk.
And there is a third intermedi-
ate line joining the Trans-
Siberian at Petropavlovsk. All
these communications, together
with supporting roads, form
themselves into a triangle with
the apex or concentration point
aimed like an arrowhead at
Pakistan and India, with direct
rail linkage with Moscow on the


FACING A PACK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when vou stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a part . . . yet
it is merely "round the comer”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
... the service and cuisine
excellent
THE WENTWORTH
In cS ydnep
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
EXECUTOR -
TRUSTEE -
ATTORNE -
*H4T-
*-EAv
*Hp
o
l"tr
'•ll
*»*Hh
This booklet explains where
you stand
Before you accept the responsibilities of executorship, you
should know where those obligations begin and end. The
same precaution is essential before you appoint your own
executor. After you have read the new edition of "Hands
That Never Leave the Wheel,” you will realise why
Burns Philp Trust Company Limited can be of great
service to you and your family.
A complimentary copy of this booklet will be forwarded
on application. If you care to call, a senior officer will be
readily available to discuss important matters with you.
DIRECTORS;
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Le«
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. OVERTON, F.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament
Head Office; 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TEL. BU 5901 BOX 543, G.P.O.
•PI7A.4D
INSURANCE —for your profeefion
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £10,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWB 13 I (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
The glorious tradition behind the Royal Australian Navy combines
with science to build a modern navy of which Australia can continue
to be proud. An enthusiastic, intelligent boy can mould himself a
fine career in the growing strength and responsibility of the R.A.N.
Your son can become a highly trained specialist,
with opportunities for promotion, for adventure
and the excitement of world travel. The excellent
rates of pay, together with generous contributory
pension benefits will ensure his financial stability.
‘
i
« i'Of
A PROUD FUTURE
for your son
Applications are invited for
CADET MIDSHIPMEN : Intelligent, healthy boys who become 13 years of age
during 1950, are eligible for entry to the R.A.N. as Cadet-Midshipmen. After four
years specialised training and general edueation at the Royal Australian Naval College,
they are sent overseas for further training with the Royal Navy. Applications close
15 th June, 1950. *
CADET MIDSHIPMEN This is a special opportunity for boys of 18 with Matricu-
(Spedai Entry) lation standard of education, to become Officers in the
Executive, Engineering and Electrical branches of the R.A.N. Sound health is essential.
Applications close 15th April, 1950.
CADET-MIDSHIPMEN (S) ; The Supply and Secretariat Branch is vital to the
Navy’s operations, and it offers an opportunity of service to boys of 18, with Leaving
of Senior standard of education. Applications close 15th April, 1950.
Applicants for the above entries must be British subjects by birth,] and of pure
European descent.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN
ŵ
Detailed particulars, and application forms may be obtained from
THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY, NAVY
OFFICE, MELBOURNE. S.C.I.
RAN VI 4.83.125*
one side and Russia’s Chinese
possessions on the other.
...
Thirty Divisions
Timoshenko’s Army Group
contains more troops than there
are in the whole British Com-
monwealth today; more prob-
ably than there are in the United
States and British Common-
wealth combined ; indeed, going
on for half as many as the
United States used on all fronts,
at the height of World War 11.
The strength is placed at 30 to
32 divisions—five armored, five
mechanised and cavalry, six to
eight airborne, four artillery and
10 infantry. Their industrial
backing, the Baku-Stalinabad
triangle, makes them self-
contained. And the spearhead
of this army is two days’ drive or
a little more from the Pakistan
railhead on the Persian-Afghan
border at Duzdap.
Information from this region
seems to suggest' that Russia is
beginning to put into operation
for India much the same policy
as has been pursued in China,
If the country which used to be
one India can be split and a
Communist fifth-column can be
established within, the process
will go on, not hastily, until
the psychological moment for
decisive action arrives.
gotagso h bTvU°so°^y P abo!i e t an*
other facet o£ the British policy
to Srve P oS y P
An Atom-bomb
Agreement.
“Ek Dum”: Curious rumors
—certainly only on the authority
of correspondents—are floating
round about agreement between
Great Britain and the United
States on the atom-bomb.
The “New York Times” man,
James Reston, on January 4
announced that he understood a
partnership to be under con-
sideration between the British
and the United States on the
basis of a British memorandum
which proposed that the British
would agree not to produce atom-
bombs, but would allow its
scientists to work on the produc-
tion of atom-bombs in the
United States; that the United
States would store atom-bombs
under U.S. control in the United
Kingdom, and that there should
be a complete exchange of
atomic information between the
two countries, the agreement to
operate for three years.
The London “Daily Express’s”
science writer, Mr. Chapman
Pincher, followed this up next
day with the news that an actual
agreement had been made ; that
neither Britain nor Canada would
produce the bomb for at least
five years, and that Britain would
sacrifice most of her share of
Belgian Congo uranium.
The writer says that the
“British chiefs-of-staff fought
against the agreement,” but
were overruled. Well they might
oppose the agreement.
If the news is true it should
be the end of the Attlee Gov-
ernmenf. It means that Britain
has virtually become a colony of
the United States so far as de-
fence goes, and that it has agreed
to defend itself atomically only
with United States approval.
United States policy is de-
pendent upon elections held
every four years. A change in
Congress and the Presidency may
quite easily change U.S. policy
and it is still possible, even if
not immediately probable, that
Britain might become involved in
hostilities not approved tfy
American Congress. The impli-
cations of this situation are
obvious.
If the Americans do not
approve the war there will be no
atom-bombs. In effect, the
British Socialist Government
has surrendered, if the report be
true, its right to govern its own
foreign relationships in dispute.
If the agreement is made it
would be interesting to know
how far Australia is party to it.
The Government should, on
principle; refuse to be a party
to it at all or to any other
agreement which affects the de-
cision of the people of Australia
and the British Commonwealth
to defend themselves against
aggression by every legitimate
means, and with every weapon
calculated to shorten a war and
ultimately save lives.
The only consolation about
the matter is that the atom-bomb
is obviously an overrated
weapon. The British Home
Secretary went out of his way
to make clear his Government’s
opinion on this matter some
time ago. It would be interesting
to know whether his opinion was
his own or that of somebody in
military circles.
There may, from a practical
viewpoint, be little in the agree-
ment with the United States, if
it has been made. The British
may feel assured from their
knowledge of what is happening
in Russia that they do not face
attack by atom-bomb. They
may have contrived a good de-
fence comparable in its effects
with radar in the battle of
Britain. But all this does not
affect the principle behind such
an agreement. And it does not
affect the fact that the Attlee
Government’s attitude to defence
has been a slovenly one very
much like that of the Chifley
Government.
Two years ago Mr. A. V.
Alexander, who was then
Defence Minister, announced that
Britain would make the atom-
bomb. In the last honors-list he
was shunted into the House of
Lords. And there is an uneasy
feeling that there has been a
change of policy under the pinch-
ing hand of Stafford Cripps.
Compulsory Training.
The Minister for the Army
and Navy, Mr. Francis, an-
nounced that his discussion with
service chiefs would not include
the question of compulsory
training.
It is scarcely something for
Mr. Francis to settle in any case,
and it is unlikely that any plan
will be announced until after the
new Chief of the General Staff
takes office in April.
The whole matter is bound up
with general policy. It is un-
likely that any attempt .will be
made to impose universal service,
but the right to call for universal
service will undoubtedly have
emphasis in whatever scheme is
adopted, and sufficient men are
likely to be marked down for
service, on a joint voluntary-
compulsory basis, to provide a
proper nucleus suitable for
quick expansion whenever need
arises.
It will take some time to
survey the whole position.
One of the most mysterious
factors in the Balkan situation is
the relationship of Russia and
her satellites with Yugoslavia in
the matter of Danube control.
The last Danubian conference
was held at a time when Tito
and the Kremlin were abusing
each other like fishwives. Yet the
conference was held on Yugoslav
soil, and the only people barred
from traditional rights on the
river were the Allies of the West
and the Austrians. Then Russia
quietly blockaded the river
against the Yugoslavs. But last
week, not long after the Yugo-
slavs had jailed a batch of
Russian “spies,” whose punish-
ment was accepted by Moscow
with strange and unprecedented
meekness, it was discovered that
Yugoslav cargoes of pyrites
from Belgrade had been allowed
to pass up the river to Western
Germany. There is still room
for a good deal of suspicion
about the authenticity of the
MosQOW-Belgrade quarrel.
*,* * *
The United States Govern-
ment has sent a Note to the
Russian Government asking for
information about the fate of
375,000 Japanese prisoners-of-
war who have disappeared in
Siberia, When the question was
raised for the second time in the
Allied Council in Tokyo on
January 4, Lieut. - General
Derevyanko again walked out,
remarking that it was not a
matter fof the council. Moscow’s
answer can be prophesied in
advance. It will take the same
stand which it has taken on Ger-
man prisoners—that they re-
main in Russia of their own
sweet will, fascinated by the
local conditions, or that they do
not exist.
* * * *
One of the most remarkable
growths in air development has
been in Canada, as shown by
figures recently published:
Aug. 31, Aug. 31,
1946. 1949.
Licensed airports ..' 134 376
Aircraft, licensed (pri-
vate) .. .. 40 634
Aircraft, commercial 708 1469
Pilots, private .. 828 2324


c'Y
tßtw
UM" 1 - 0
p£E
ItDXCV
jiVPA I^
itsitet
ycottn* 1 *
Facts you should know in the
interests of your Estate & your Dependants...
The informative booklet, “Trust Estates and Their Management,”
has been compiled to acquaint you with the facts and problems
connected with choosing your Executor and Trustee. This is a
matter which every prudent man must consider at some time. It
is a decision which vitally affects the welfare of your dependants,
and is therefore one about which every person should be fully
informed.
Write to-day for your copy of this free booklet ... or call and
discuss the matter personally with one of our Executive Officers.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M.,
F.R.A.CJS. J. R. Faviell
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager: C. N. P. Whittle
Sub. Manager: S. U. White
Secretary: F. R. Garland
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. «f HAW. LID-
-23-25 O'CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W. PT.I2GW
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
OLD TITO TROUBLE.
The Kremlin-Tito row is very
far from being the recent de-
velopment most people may
suppose, according to House of
Commons member Fitzroy
Maclean, who was keeping
Churchill posted from inside
Yugoslavia when the Germans
were in occupation there. As
early as 1943 he wrote to
Churchill:
“Much will depend on Tito
and whether he sees himself in
his former role of Comintern
agent or as the potential ruler
of an independent Yugoslav
State.”
Recalling this, Maclean de-
clares (in the course of a Lon-
don “Spectator” article) that the
TiToiSHf
THE BEAR THAT COULDN’T SLEEP.
—“France Amérique.”
trouble between Tito and Mos-
cow began as soon as Tito
assumed power. To the outside
world at the time, Yugoslavia
seemed firmly enough fixed in
the Soviet orbit, and everything
was done to encourage that
view:
“But behind this smooth
fapade ominous cracks had
already begun to appear in the
basic structure of Soviet-Yugo-
slav friendship. Up to then the
Partisans had had more dealings
with the Western Allies than
with the Russians. The Govern-
ments of Great Britain and the
United States had led the way
in recognising them as allies,
and since the end of 1943 Anglo-
American help had been on a
substantial and ever-increasing
scale, while the Russians, for
their part, made no direct con-
tribution until the concluding
phase of the campaign, when the
Red Army finally crossed the
Yugoslav frontier and advanced
on Belgrade. As devout Com-
munists, the Partisans had
hitherto regarded everything
Russian with something ap-
proaching adoration. The reality
was to fall short of their expec-
tations.
“In the first place there was
trouble over the behavior of the
Red Army, and also over the
attitude of the Yugoslavs to-
wards their newly-arrived Soviet
mentors. Not long after contact
had been established with the
Russians, Djilas, one of the men
closest to Tito, was reported to
Moscow as having said that in
certain respects the Soviet
officers in Yugoslavia compared
unfavorably with the British.
Other reports reaching Moscow
alleged that ‘leading Yugoslav
comrades’ had used such terms
as ‘great-Power chauvinism,’
‘economic imperialism’ and even
‘degeneracy’ in alluding to the
Soviet Union.
“This was a far cry from the
attitude of docile hero-worship
that was expected of them. Nor
were the complaints all on one
side. The Yugoslavs, for their
part, soon discovered that repre-
sentatives of the Soviet Intelli-
gence Service were seeking to
corrupt Yugoslav Communists
and turn them against their own
leaders by suggesting that these,
including Tito himself, were
‘inefficient and unreliable.’ Re-
lations between the new Yugo-
slavia and the Soviet Union had
got off to a bad start.”
Since then there has been in-
creasing deterioration, until “the
stage is set for the final phase
of the conflict.” As to this, the
authority on Yugoslavia can be
called conditionally optimistic:
“If the Russians cannot rid
themselves of Tito by any other
means—if political pressure
fails, if economic pressure fails,
if no one can be found to
assassinate him their only
means of eliminating him will
be by direct military intervention
of one kind or another. And
there can be little doubt that at
the present time the pundits of
the Kremlin are weighing up in
their minds the advantages and
disadvantages of ‘such a course.
What decision they will reach re-
mains to be seen. But there can
be no doubt that in their de-
liberations one consideration will
outweigh all others, namely, the
attitude in this matter of the
Western Powers.
“If the Russians believe that
a Soviet attack on Yugoslavia
will lead to a general conflagra-
tion they will stay their hand.
For at the present time they do
not want war with the West,
and, rather than risk one, they
will continue to tolerate the, to
them, intolerable situation in
Yugoslavia. But, if they esti-
mate that, in the event of such
an attack, the Western Powers
will simply stand by and hold
the ring while Yugoslavia is
battered into submission, then
nothing will distract them from
their purpose.”
Unplanned U.S.
Greatness.
These days Sir Norman
Angell lives practically in retire-
ment on a semi-island in Eng-
land, with a causeway he built
providing a road to it at low
tide only. He has mostly given
over that powerful advocacy of
sundry causes and spotlighting
of looming dangers that made
him one of the foremost publi-
cists of the world between the
wars ; but one thing that can
still upend his pen is his con-
tinuing interest in the British
Empire (or Commonwealth) and
freer immigration as its surest
road to renewed greatness.
On this theme he refers (in a
London “Observer” article) to
the risen greatness of the U.S.,
whose wealth and power “seem
to be taken very much for
granted, as though they were
natural phenomena,” to be ex-
plained by “her vast area and
resources,” with which the U.S.
“was ‘bound’ to become the
Power she is.”
Insisting that “There is no
‘bound’ about it,” Sir Norman
Angell points out that Russia
and China (among others)
possess “greater potential re-
sources,” but “we do not look
to them for aid in the defence of
a free and humane civilisation,”
without which aid from the U.S.
“Western civilisation might now
be sharing the fate of the
nations behind the Iron
Curtain,” and all the war-time
“courage and sacrifice of Britain
would have been in vain”:
“The United States of Mar-
shall Aid is not the outcome of
material resource but of a politi-
cal and social judgment which
has so guided policies in the past
that such resources as do exist
have been turned to account,
and, from our point of view, to
the right account.”
In a comment which bears
closely on Australia’s own re-
cent decision against Socialist
control, the writer points out
that the U.S. exists as we know
it —and could not have existed
otherwise —because “certain men
in periods of crisis came to cer-
tain political conclusions and
struggled for the appropriate
policies as against other men
of contrary conviction. The
outcome of the struggle, as the
Alexander Hamiltons and the
Lincolns would have testified,
was, again and again, a very
near thing indeed.”
On the immigration issue he
whites: “One feature of that
American experience vitally
concerns the future of the British
Commonwealth. If we profit by
its very plain lesson the Com-
monwealth may become, within
one lifetime, as great and as
wealthy as is the United States
today. But not if the lesson is
rejected. All the political wis-
dom of the Hamiltons and
Lincolns would have been im-
potent to bring into being the
immensely powerful nation we
know if, for a century and a
half after its founding, there had
not been maintained —often in
the face of very bitter attack —
one particular policy, the policy
of completely free immigration.”
Recalling that the year he him-
self was born the U.S. had a
smaller population than Britain
has today, and less than half the
combined population of Britain
and Canada, Australia, New
Zealand and South Africa,
Angell adds that in the mean-
time it has become a nation of
nearly 150,000,000, enjoying the
highest standard of life for the
common man anywhere in the
world or at any period of his-
tory, and able, over and above
that, out of its surplus, to
furnish aid to half a world in
its need.
“This,” he further points out,
“was done in a smaller terri-
tory than those possessed today
by the Dominions of the British
Commonwealth, and on the basis
of resources far less. How it
was done should interest us for
the reason that there is no
physical obstacle to our doing
as much in as short a time.
There are very serious obstacles ;
but they are obstacles of the
mind, of the kind which arise
from the emotions of national-
ism, party passion, doctrinaire
fanaticism, political short-
sightedness, not obstacles of the
external physical world —soil,
climate, distances.
“While it is true that the fac-
tor of free immigration could
not of itself, without political
sagacity, have achieved for the
United States today’s result, it is
also true that without free migra-
tion no political wisdom would
have sufficed.
“Consider the figures. In a
little over the 50 years following
the Civil War the country ad-
mitted over 33,000,000 immi-
grants : that is to say, a number
in excess of the country’s whole
population at the beginning of
that period. There were years
—several —in which more than
1,000,000 immigrants were ad-
mitted in the 12 months.
“The world of the nineteenth
century also had its Displaced
Persons problems. Famines in
Ireland displaced half its popu-
lation —something in the neigh-
borhood of 4,000,000 sought re-
fuge in America,
“This immigration on a scale
which in our day of quotas, re-
strictions, controls, planning
would be regarded as disastrous
and impossible did not disrupt
the receiving country’s economy;
it greatly benefited thereby,
since this alone made possible a
rapid development of its natural
resources. It did not lower the
American standard of life, which
rose steadily all the time. It
did not swamp the country’s
distinctive culture or political in-
stitutions—it was the means by
which the effective defence of
those institutions —and of like
institutions elsewhere in the
world —alone became possible.
That unplanned world solved,
without even knowing that it was
doing it, and with great benefit
to itself, a problem which our
planned world finds in many of
its aspects all but insoluble.”
They’re Shooting in
Korea.
While most attention had been
focused last year on the
Kremlin-Tito word-war, Korea,
in the view of a “Manchester
Guardian” correspondent in
Asia, “is probably the most
dangerous frontier in the ‘cold
war’.” And, of course:
“Should the frequent sparks
of friction between American-
sponsored South Korea and
Soviet-sponsored North Korea
erupt into full-scale civil war,
it would almost inevitably suck
in both sponsors.”
Reporting from the South
Korean capital, a correspondent
of N. Y. “Herald Tribune” has
stated that for some time there’s
been something a good deal
warmer than a “cold” war:
“An unadmitted shooting war
between the Governments of
the United States and Russia is
in effect today along the 28th
Parallel, 60 miles north of here
[Seoul]. It is smouldering
throughout the territory of the
new Republic of Korea, which
has been recognised as a
sovereign, independent nation
by 11 States and the Vatican,
despite the fact that only Ameri-
can money, weapons and tech-
nical assistance enable it to
exist for more than a few hours.
“In this war between the two
great Powers, each stubbornly
persists in extension of its
ideologies and influence over a
tiny peninsula, almost barren of
resources. Under the tutelage of
American and Russian military
officers, this war in Korea is
fought with an intensity that
would be impossible were not


C0a1...
MILLIONS OH YEARS TO PRODUCE
Burned
in a Second
, . . How import-
ant it is, therefore,
to burn coal
properly and eco-
nomically, how-
ever great or small
the daily con-
sumption. With
world - wide ex-
perience, and a
knowledge of
Australian coals
that extends back
over 60 years,
Babcock specialise
in the design and
manufacture of
the most efficient
steam - raising
plant for all pur-
poses.
it il
□la la
x
3
-
' Longitudinal' :
of a B. &■
Head boiler urtit
arranged for pul-
verised coal firing.
’
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS • - REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States
The Department of Technical Education
New South Wales
Offers through the
CORRESPONDENCE TEACHING DIVISION
sound and modern training by correspondence instruction in a wide
range of subjects.
Promotion and success depend upon your ability to keep in touch
with up-to-date methods and modern trends. Home study courses
will open up new interests and enthusiasms as well as lead to
EFFICIENCY PROMOTION SUCCESS
Any personi other than those of school age, who, by reason of
remote place of residence, hours of employment or physical
disability, cannot attend Technical College classes, may apply for
enrolment in any one or more of the following courses:—
ART —Object (Still Life) Drawing,
Figure Drawing, Freehand Drawing, Dress-
makers’ and Milliners’ Art, Display Card
Writing, Ticket Writing.
COMMERCE —Bookkeeping, Commercial
English, Commercial Principles, Account-
ancy, Auditing, Commercial Law, Income
Tax Law and Practice, Banking, Finance
and Foreign Exchange, Cost Accountancy,
Company Secretarial Practice, Economics,
Bankers’ Institute, Commercial Corres-
pondence, Shorthand, Typewriting.
X,OCAX> GOVERNMENT—LocaI Gov-
ernment (Town and Shire) Clerks’ Cer-
tificate.
ELECTRlCALr—Electrical Trades (for
apprentices and journeymen).
ENGINEERING—Fitting and Machin-
ing, Automotive Mechanics, Refrigeration
(for apprentices and journeymen). Steam
Engine Operation, Steam Boiler Attend-
ants, Gas Engineering, Diesel Engine
Operation. Surveying I (course in pre-
paration). Motor Maintenance (for owners
and drivers of motor vehicles).
GENERAL EDUCATION—EngIish and
Mathematics (approximately from Ist year
secondary to Leaving Certificate standard),
French, Mechanics, Modern History,
Geography (approximately from Inter-
mediate Certificate to Leaving Certificate
and/or Matriculation of University of
Sydney standard).
MARINE ENGINEERING—Ist or 2nd
Class Marine Engineer’s Certificate,
Part A.
BUILDING Building Construction,
Carpentry and Joinery (Theory, Calcu-
lations and Drawing).
PRINTING —Composing, Printers’ Eng-
lish and Arithmetic, Linotype Operation,
Bookbinding, Letterpress Printing (for
apprentices and journeymen).
PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS Certifi-
cate Entrance and Qualifying Examina-
tions (Department of Technical Educa-
tion). Intermediate Certificate (see
Secondary), Nurses’ Entrance.
PUBLIC HEALTH— HeaIth Inspec-
tion, Meat Inspection.
BUBAL —Agriculture, Care of Animals,
Pig Raising, Poultry Farming, Sheep and
Woolclassing, Dairy Technology, Dairy
Farming, Bee Keeping, Farm Mechanics
(including Farm Machinery, Farm Science
and Farm Arithmetic), Farm Manage-
ment and Farm Economics, Station Book-
keeping.
SANITATION —House Drainage, Sewer
Plumbing, Water Plumbing.
SECONDARY —Art, Business Principles
and Bookkeeping, English, French, General
Mathematics, Geography, History, Latin,
Mathematics I (Arithmetic and Algebra),
Mathematics II (Geometry and Trigo-
nometry), Technical Drawing. (All from
Ist year to Intermediate Certificate stan-
dard.)
HOME HANDICRAFTS —Dressmaking,
Millinery, Dressmakers’ and Milliners’ Art.
Special lectures and practical demonstration sessions at SYDNEY
TECHNICAL COLLEGE are arranged every year for correspondence
students enrolled in trade and other of the above courses.
IF YOU CANNOT ATTEND A TECHNICAL COLLEGE
STUDY BY CORRESPONDENCE
FEES
Basic Scale 25/- per single subject. Course rates where applicable. Complete
schedule of fees available upon application. Half fees to students under 21 years
and receiving less than SO/- weekly.
A. DENNING, . , ..
Acting Director of Technical Education.
MAIL COUPON FOR SYLLABUS
TO; The Offlcer-in-Charge, Correspondence Teaching Division, Department of
Technical Education, 45-47 Broadway, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, full details of the
Correspondence Course.
NAME (in BLOCK LETTERS)
ADDRESS
human life held cheap as dirt by
the people fighting it. Women
and children are killed without
compunction; the dead lie un-
buried in village streets for days ;
torture of captured political an-
tagonists is commonplace,”
The American correspondent
concluded his frank enough
detailed account of the sporadic
warfare on an even franker note;
“In the fight for Korea, as
waged today between the United
States’ and Russia, virtually every
advantage lies with Russia.
Once the American props are
withdrawn. South Korea will
fall beneath the weight of Com-
munist Asia. And this cor-
respondent has yet to meet an
American in Korea who is will-
ing to fight for it.”
J. Bull in China.
In the thick of the election
rumpus early in December,
A.B.C. found time to gaze into
the crystal-ball, and came out
with the very confident predic-
tion that Britain would diplo-
matically recognise Communist
China before Christmas. In
fact, A.B.C. confidently expected
that Left-urged consummation
by the Thursday of that early-
December week.
As already noted here, the
urging on this issue was over
many months in 1949 signifi-
cantly clamorous in Britain, par-
ticularly in the Left-tinged
Press, which implied that Britain
should not hesitate to take
separate action and tell Uncle
Sam to jump in the lake. As a
lone voice against—a role not
unfamiliar to him —Lord Vansit-
tart contended in London
“Times” correspondence that,
while there have been cogent
short-term reasons for recogni-
tion, what is likely to matter to
Britain is the long-term:
“We [British] have great
commercial interests in China
which will profit by a course
immediately agreeable to Com-
munism. But how long will they
profit? Already there are signs
that Chinese trade will be
oriented by Moscow. For how
long will there be room for us
after we have served our turn?
Did the New Economic Policy
survive its brief purpose in
Russia? Do not the satellite
countries desire us to cover the
deficiencies of Soviet supply?
Communism cannot fill the
needs of its subordinates. Shall
we help the Kremlin out till it
can and then be pushed aside?
Shall we build up hostile coun-
tries till they can fight against
us? We did that to Germany
and Japan. Was not that short-
sighted? It is just as unwarrant-
able to assume that Communism
will not go to war as it was in
the case of Nazism.
“I have often suggested in the
House of Lords not that we
should cease trading with the
Soviet slave-States, but that we
should not increase our exports
particularly machinery till
the future is clearer. We know
that these poor States will be
used against us in case the cold
war turns hot. If this risk exists
in the case of Czechoslovakia or
Hungary, it is nearly 30 times
greater in the case of China.
These points might not weigh if
we were sure of permanent gain
by ignoring them. But are we?
It is doubtful whether recogni-
tion will make much difference
to the treatment of our traders
so long as there is anything to
be got out of them. On the
other hand, by concession we
shall lose face elsewhere in the
Far East, particularly when
Communist activity gains new
momentum in Burma, Indo-
China, Malaya, Indonesia. The
Chinese Nationalists have criti-
cised the Burmese Government
for hailing the Communist band-
wagon abroad while resisting
Communism at home. Other
minds will apply the same logic
to us.”
U.S.-British Costs.
Comparisons by the National
Industrial Conference Board in
New York, based on how long
a man has to work to buy what
he needs: —
For the whole range of com-
modities listed, ranging from
potatoes to toothpaste, the aver-
age British worker has to work
three and a half times as long
as the average American worker.
He has to work:
Nine times as long as the
average American to buy 20
cigarettes.
Two and a half times as long
to buy a pound of sugar.
Four times as long to buy a
hat and three times as long to
buy a suit or a wireless-set.
Only two items are “cheaper”
in this sense in London —hair-
cuts and newspapers.
Violated Treaties.
In the sense that nothing con-
crete or practical could come out
of it, the referring to the Inter-
national Court of Justice of
peace - treaty - violation charges
against Hungary, Rumania and
Bulgaria seemed as futile as many
other U.N.O. actions. It has
been supported, however, by the
practical-enough London “Eco-
nomist,” on these grounds:
“It is, of course, quite true that
suppression of opposition parties,
denial of freedom of speech and
the staging of political trials a
la russe are acts of domestic
policy which would not norm-
ally be regarded as suitable for
official protest by other nations
or for the jurisdiction of an in-
ternational court. It is also true
that the offences of Hungary,
Rumania and Bulgaria, arising
out of the Communist system of
totalitarian rule, are in no im-
portant respect different from
the practices of the Soviet Union,
Poland or Czechoslovakia,
against whom no charge is
brought. But it so happens that
Hungary, Rumania and Bulgaria
fought in the war on the side of
Nazi Germany, and that the
peace treaties imposed on them
by the victors, including Russia,
have bound them to observe
certain principles in their inter-
nal policy, so that they cannot
plead that any foreign concern
at their violation of these prin-
ciples is an infringement of their
domestic jurisdiction.
“The treaties they signed are
a part of international law, and
the Governments of the three
nations which have so cynically
ignored the obligations they
undertook are liable to whatever
processes of law exist for the
judgment of treaty violation. The
realist may say that all this fuss
Cannot lead anywhere, as the
erring States are under Russian
protection and cannot be com-
pelled to mend their ways, what-
ever the International Court may
decide. But, as in the case of
the Corfu Straits [in which
Britain’s charges against Albania
and claims for £BOO, OOO-odd
damages were fully upheld], it
is good that claim and counter-
claim in the cold war should,
wherever possible, be taken out
of the arena of mere progaganda
contest and submitted to an in-
dependent judicial procedure.”
Dragnet Digest.
Corns Could Win Japan. —ln one
of a series of N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
articles by special correspondents
surveying the Asian situation in
general, Allen Raymond, in Tokyo,
insists that if American food and
troops are withdrawn “the revolution
which is now being provoked by a
fanatical little band of about 150,000
Communist-party members, out of
Japan’s 82,000,000 population, would
inevitably be won by the Reds with
Russian and Chinese backing. Some
dictator closely allied with Mao Tse-
tung in China would rise to absolute
rule here [in Japan] riding the crest
of starvation and chaos,”
* * * *
Nippon v. Lancashire.— -In the tex-
tiles fight now fast working up, the
Japs, as seen by a Lancashire tex-
tiles man writing in the “Manchester
Guardian,” have very dangerous ad-
vantages: “If Lancashire installed the
most modem machinery for all pro-
cesses and the industry was put on
the highest possible efficiency basis
she would still be unable to com-
pete with Japan. The enormous
difference in the relative wage basis
and also in other charges entering
into the cost of production is such
that there is no possibility of Lanca-
shire being able to compete. It is a
question of ‘Asiatic costs’ as against
‘Western European costs.’ I would
even say that far from Lancashire
being able in the future to reduce
the disparity in costs—whatever she
might do in reorganisation the
greater freedom Japan obtains in
commercial matters the greater will
be the disparity in prices in Japan’s
favor.”
* * * *
Tito Worse than Toothache. —Com-
parison by London “Daily Tele-
graph”: “In a sense, Tito is to the
Kremlin what Franco was to the
Axis —a source of exasperation,, which
is the greater because he once seemed
a friend who could be counted upon
to be an obedient instrument. After
fruitlessly pleading with Franco at
Hendaye to come into the war, Hitler
remarked that he would rather have
four teeth out than go through the
experience again. Stalin might well
employ a similar image concerning
Tito.”
* * * *
U.S.-Subsidised Social Services. —
“Let politicians argue how they will,”
comments a London “Daily Tele-
graph” writer, “the one thing which
has safeguarded our social services
since the war has been the financial
aid from America that has kept our
industries going. When that aid
comes to an end, in about two years,
there will be nothing to support
them but the productive efforts of
the British people. There is nothing
‘free’ about these services, no mys-
terious Government fund to finance
them. If our production is not high
enough to sustain them, then they
will be cut, no matter what any
politician may say at the coming
election.”
* He * *
Soviet Press Freedom. —As laid
down by that organ of Communist
light “Pravda”: “The liberty of
speech and of the Press are power-
ful instruments in the consolida-
tion of the Socialist regime
Whoever postulates the overthrow of
the Socialist regime is an enemy of
the people. He will not obtain a
sheet of paper, he will not be able
to cross the threshold of a printing
office.”
* * * *
“Communism Suits Asia.” —Why
Soviet policy is more effective with
“the Chinese, Indians and Africans
than it is with Tito and Moscow’s
Slav brothers in Iron Curtain
Europe,” as seen by a veteran
London “Daily Express” correspon-
dent: “(1) Because the more primi-
tive peoples of Asia and Africa need
firm rule and we Westerners have
not been giving it to them; (2) be-
cause we have, instead, encouraged
nationalist and autonomist movements
easily exploited by Communist agita-
tion; (3) because the firm but bene-
volent despotism instituted by Com-
munist regimes, like that in China,
is the natural form of government
at this stage for these countries.”
For those reasons, “in the East,
Stalin’s new revolutionary imperial-
ism is as suitable as it is unsuitable
in the West.”


YOUR STAN DAM
of mum A..
LIGHT
GIVEN
CURRENT
NOW USED
CURRENT
SAVED
LIGHT
MAINTAINED
AND AT
THE SAME T!ME
SAUE W**Ef*r. .
CHANGE TO
1
sr
FLUORESCENT LIG
For full particulars consult your Electrical
Contractor or the B.G.E. Fluorescent Lighting
Department. When replacing your fluorescent
lamps ask for Osram—a standardised product.
GmefudSteetUc
(Sole Australian Representative* of
The General Electric Co. Ltd. of England)
SYDNEY . . NEWCASTLE . . MELBOURNE . . PERTH . 'HOBART
LAUNCESTON . . BRISBANE . . TOWNSVILLE . . ADELAIDE
ẁ
lW
m
HJ
V
SAFETY IS
SO VITAL
Protect your family, yourself, your car
with SAFE tyres and get greater
mileage at the same time. Sure-footed
Goodyear De Luxe Tyre's have a
wider, flatter tread, an improved
shoulder design, arid a stronger cord
body. De Luxe is a huskier, longer-
wearing, SAFER tyre. See your
Goodyear Dealer for Goodyear De
Luxe the tyres
with more built in
safety more built
in miles.
For more safety
per mile ...
for more miles
per tyre ...
ẃ
good/ycar
TYRES
GIVE YOUR TYRES 'kJbufylcitiC WITH NEW GOODYEAR HEAVY DUTY TUBES
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Drink
for wise men
“Film-star marries in desert.”
—Melbourne “Argus” heading.
There’s no suggestion, how-
ever, that it will last till the
sands grow cold.
■J* *i*
“He knows every rick in the matri-
monial hazard; has carefully noted
the lot.”—Sydney “Sun.”
And sees just how a man gets
it in the neck.
4* 4* 4*
“The juniors suffered their first
deafeat this season.”
—Victorian country paper.
They don’t want people to
hear about it.
“It was decided that the club shall
henceforth be known as the Bowling
(no ‘Recreation’) Club instead of
April Ist as heretofore.”
:—Suburban paper.
It was getting out of date.
4E* 4 s 4*
“For sale, walnut veneer refractory
dining table.” —Tasmanian paper.
Just simply can’t be kept in
order.
“Onions stimulate the imagina-
tion.” —Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
The thoughts they arouse can
bring tears to the eyes.
4* 4* .
“Jazz does not soothe. It excites,
irritates, demoralises. It goes to the
feet.” —Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
And is bad for the sole.
Advice for Old-stagers.
“Every father should serve as a
sort of tree, and his children should
go and climb on him.”
—Sydney "Sun.'
At night, with youngsters on my
back.
Around the room I forge
ahead
Like Phar Lap striding down
the track ;
At other times I’m running
dead.
But that a Dad should be a tree.
That notion I can soon
debunk;
For when my young limbs
climbed on me
The little wretches barked my
trunk.
BERT.
Trick of the Trade.
The shoe-repairers were the first
to chalk
Keep-off-the-grass signs. This
was done to trick
People to use the gritty gravel
walk
And wear their soles out
quick.
BRIAN BUREAU.
Defection.
“A Sydney headmaster says he is
tired of the idea that people should
be allowed to do what they like
under the cloak of some inhibition
or complex.”
It surely cannot he denied
That man is mostly Mr. Hyde;
Yet while the complex is in
vogue
We pardon him when he’s a
rogue.
And all his viciousness condone.
Blaming some phobia alone:
’Tis sad psychology’s beginning
Tq take away the zest from
sinning. "“ ’ r
JEAN STANGER.
“Depravda’s” Critic Attends
“La Boheme.”
U.S.S.R., where poets starve in
garrets only if they treasonably
refuse to write such ideological
poetry * as they are directed by
the Cultural Commissar, and
where musicians are happily able
to describe, with a brilliance
unknown to bourgeois capi-
talists,' such glorious episodes in
a Soviet worker’s life as achiev-
ing Stakjbanovite production
records and reporting to the
secret police with true patriot-
ism should his wife or son prove
to be guilty of the terrible crime
“Moscow’s Red Revolution
Theatre was packed last night
with happy Soviet workers who
had come to absorb a strong
political lesson: that the scenes
of Murger’s depraved story of
bohemian life among the poets,
artists and musicians of Paris’s
Latin Quarter, with its attendant
un-Communist gaiety, could
never be paralleled in such an
enlightened country as the
of harboring anti - Stalinist
thoughts.
“The arrival of our beloved
leader in his special grenade-
proof box was the signal for a
remarkable demonstration of
clenched-fist affection, though
some were removed by their
guards for holding their clenched
fists the wrong way. This the
Marshal—who, though handi-
capped by the blunderings and
double-crossing of the Fascists
Churchill, Roosevelt, Eisenhower
and Montgomery, succeeded
single-handed by his brilliant
military mind in planning the
downfall of the Nazi warTprds
—acknowledged by reading his
programme.
“It was obvious that the
comrade-workers were overjoyed
when the poet Rodolfo’s narrar
tive ‘Your Tiny Hand Is
Frozen’ was interrupted as soon
as the tenor reached the words
‘What my employment? Writ-
ing! Is it a living? Hardly!’
by the operatic political com-
missar, who in a short 35-
minute talk stressed that only in
such decadent capitalistic Wes-
tern democracies were the eco-
nomic conditions so bad that a
poet could not earn enough to
meet the rapacious demands of
his plutocratic landlord. Had
Rodolfo been fortunate enough
to have lived in Soviet Russia
he not only would have been
completely free to write any
verses he liked so long as they
were confined to praise of the
Communist system, but he
would, if he had turned out or
exceeded the quota of stanzas
set him by the Soviet State
Poets’ Union, qualified for food
coupons and perhaps earned such
a high wage than in only 1\
years he could have bought an
overcoat at one of the State
shops.
“There was further splendid
applause when the action of the
opera was again interrupted just
before the curtain falls on Act
I, where Mimi consents to go
with the poet to the Cafe
Momus, where his friends are
to dine. As the Commissar so
ably pointed out here, the nam-
ing of this cafe, with its sug-
gestion of anti-Soviet laughter,
is a mortal insult to the mighty
U.S.S.R., whose workers realise
that there was no. place for
ribald merriment when the war-
mad plotters of Wall-street and
Threadrieedle - street were
attempting with their threats of
atom-bombing our peace-loving
country to provoke us into
creating an ‘incident’ and thus
gain an excuse for marching
against us.
“After Musetta’s waltz, and
when the foolish old banker
Alcindoro is left to pay the
party’s bill, the tediousness of
the bourgeois plot was again re-
lieved for a further half-hour by
a highly - entertaining and
keenly-arialytical comparison by
the Political Commissar of the
economic differences between
the Capitalist and Socialist
State. The enthusiastic applause
which followed this was certainly
not in the slightest degree in-
fluenced by the presence of 500
secret police throughout the
audience —it was too spon-
taneous for that.
“The scene in the opening of
Act 111 at the city gates, where
workmen come and go shivering
and blowing on their frozen
fingers, is typical of the misery
suffered by workers in all capi-
talist countries. Mimi’s ‘Fare-
well’ in this act was sung by
the soprano Alexandrinavitch
Yobb with a strong suspicion
of deviationism in her voice,
especially in the high register.
In the quartet which followed
her blending with the other three
confirmed this, her descending
scale-passage being definitely
Trotskyist. As the opera ad-
vanced her voice developed
more strongly an anti-Soviet
bias.
“In Act IV, where Rodolfo
gazes in melancholy fashion at
Mimi’s pink bonnet and sings
his ‘Mimi, False One! ’ the tenor
(Serge Maiksimitch) sang in an
admirable anti-bourgeois half-
voice, but in the duet ‘We Are
Alone’ there was not an atom
of ideology in his bravura pas-
sages, whilst in the final death
scene he was guilty of using his
voice in a way that suggested
sympathy with the Trotskyist
school.
“Generally the orchestra lent
good support, though a few mea-
sures by the upper strings in Act
I offered proof that this section
is in need of intense political in-
doctrination. There was also a
painful lack of hatred of the
democracies in playing by the
French horns, oboes and clarinet.
The lighting effects at times had
a pro-Tito glare that was nothing
short of traitorous, while the
snow at the beginning of Act
111 was allowed to fall at vari-
ance with pro-Stalinist-Leninist,
anti - capitalist, pro - proletarian
thinking, but had in it a definite
pro-Radek, anti-State-monopo-
list flavor.
M. Maiksimitch, Mme. Yobb
and the technicians responsible
for the lapses left after the per-
formance for a political-correc-
tion camp in Siberia.”
Bo.
Suitable Courses.
At Scrooge’s Randwick hash-
house when
The scran got less and worse,
The boarders left, eight of the
ten
By taxi—two by hearse.
But Scrooge has little cause to
rue,
Or to feel desolate,
His joint’s now fdled with jockeys
who
Are anxious to lose weight.
BRIAN BUREAU.


ft 6 *CMS
ffVJV ££/?£/?
OM-
ẅ
CHAMPION
FAvomm
s.
\
ei4
w
TRADE MARK
FACTORIES; FELTHAM, ENG.;
TOLEDO, U.S.A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
Public Notice.
L ANGELOS ANGELIDIS, of Greek
nationality, bom at Dafla, Lesbos, Greece,
and resident 12 years in Australia, now
residing at Empire Hotel, 1 Johnstone
Street, Annandale, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality
and Citizenship Act, 1948.
m
wm
SjSfflßSt
$ m*«
If
'w*:
Sfcas
*r A
'"■■ ■. ,• - • :
,
•' , ;
M
ii^'3
-»■:
r' ,*
's
Its coolness,
chugs!
Soys
TOMMY TRINDER
While you shave with Ingrams you feel the sooth-
ing coolness that keeps your face feeling fine for
hours after. Ingrams is grand! It gives you the
smoothest shave ever. And there are at least 120
cool comfortable shaves in every jar. 2/- a jar
from your chemist.
Mnqmm'i
SHAVING CREAM
BMTI4
Ingram*
>y»x< ',> »> :< >
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT’S
RED MILL RUM.
For the S.T.C.’s meeting on Satur-
day Moorefield racecourse made a
half-hearted attempt to resurrect its
lately pretty-well-defunct reputation
as a “punter’s paradise”; however,
the success of Carceres at 40 to 1 in
the Flying Handicap administered the
paradise notion a resounding coup
de grace.
It was difficult to sympathise with
those who did their brass by making
Persian Prince favorite at threes for
the Flying. His last win was more
than eight months ago, and since
then he has shown himself one of
those cantankerous deceivers who
every now and again run a
promising-looking minor placing only
to utterly refute the form next time
up. At his previous start Persian
Prince had been prominent all the
way to finish the closest of seconds
in a highweight at Randwick. On
Saturday he was near the tail of the
field throughout, and beat only three
home.
For a horse who has won a host
of races in country districts the aged
Fresco gelding Carceres was leniently
weighted in the Flying with only
21b. above the minimum. Ridden a
well-judged race by young S. Taylor,
Carceres finished fast on the outside
to beat the strongly-fancied Tartan
Girl by a half-length, with Tivoli
Star a head away third. Carceres
and Tartan Girl are trained by
brothers G. Horton and H. Horton.
If bookmakers’ prices could be
accepted as a guide the 10-furlongs
Peter Moore Handicap was regarded
as an extraordinarily open race —
six of the seven runners were quoted
at less than 6 to 1, Alkestu being
considered the only complete “no-
hoper,” and duly finishing stone-last.
Before turning it in Alkestu had dis-
puted the lead with High Ideals for
six furlongs or so. High Ideals
stuck to the job, and held a narrow
lead entering the straight, but another
son of High Caste in High Spirits
was close pressing him. In the run
home High Spirits got to the front
and lasted it out to beat a fast-
finishing Brig o’ Dopn, with High
Ideals third.
Noted at the weekend that book-
maker J. Shaw had been voted by
some organisation or other one of
the “10 best-dressed men of the
year.” Without having ever particu-
larly assessed brother Shaw’s sartorial
tastes we can at least vouch that he
owns to the loudest set of racing
colors known to Sydney—“ Dark blue,
white stars, red-and-white-striped
sleeves, dark-blue cap.” The judge
was greeted by this dazzling array
when the Double Remove filly Fine
Girl (J. Thompson) made a comfort-
able job of winning the Two-year-old
Handicap for fillies.
There was a distinctly scientific
flavor to the mile Kogarah Mixed,
which went to the somewhat
patched-up Sodium, a son of Scien-
tist and owned by Dr. E. G. Carroll.
Starting at twelves, Sodium upset a
hefty plunge on the McCarten-trained
English importation Furdan, who
was much fancied to open his win-
ning account, but failed by a head.
It was reported that in order to get
him well enough to race Sodium was
subjected to a dose of one million
units of penicillin and 100 sulpha-
diazene tablets. However, this was
done a couple of weeks prior to
Saturday, so presumably AJ.C.
analyst Jean Kimble will be deprived
of what could have been some out-
of-the-ordinary entertainment when
dealing with Saturday’s swabs.
* * * *
One old familiar face missing from
Moonee Valley on Saturday was that
of leading jockey “Scobie” Breasley,
who was busy packing his bags to
join the apparent mass exodus of
leading Australian ikters to England;
Breasley has a fat retainer to ride
for the powerful J, V. Rank stable.
Breasley did his last day’s riding
here, for some time at least, at the
previous Monday’s holiday meeting
at Flemington. There he made a
"I never use it at home."
fair-enough farewell appearance by
landing the first two winners on the
flat, and seemed to have a good
chance of making it a hat-trick with
the mount on Chicquita in the
Standish Handicap. For once, how-
ever, they had asked too much of
the champion filly, and the Standish
saw the end of her sequence of eight
consecutive wins. Carrying a solid
weight—3lb. oyer weight-for-age—■
and tackling a bunch of topnotch
sprinters at six furlongs, after having
at her two previous starts won at
12 furlongs and a mile, Chicquita
finished a close fourth in the Stan-
dish, Ungar turning in an outstand-
ingly-brilliant performance to win
from Regular Port and Heroic
Sovereign.
Providing the only two winning
favorites of the day, owner O. R.
Porter did punters a good turn at
the Valley on Saturday, and evidently
did himself no harm, either. It was
reported that Porter won some £5OOO
over the success of his three-year-old
Prince o’ Fairies and then bunged
the lot on his old stager Chatspa,
who scored at 9to 4 on. However,
it would be a fair bet that both those
animals, unlucky on several previous
occasions, still represent a debit ac-
count to their owner.
Giving jockey J. Purtell an arm-
chair ride, Prince o’ Fairies had the
easiest of victories oyer other three-
year-olds in tthe mile Parkville
Handicap; the Prince scored by two
lengths from Rover’s Mark (who
should be suited by something a
shade shorter in the near future), a
similar distance to First Glance, and
the rest strung out like Brown’s
cows.
Even carrying his full handicap
weight old Chatspa would have been
favorite to beat the handful of third-
raters opposing him in the 13-furlongs
Fairfield Handicap. Receiving a 71b.
allowance for the capable apprentice
C. Winslett, the Chatham gelding
carried 8.9, and Panmure, at fours,
was the only one conceded a chance
of beating him. Those who did
plump for Panmure may have been
a shade unlucky. Rounding the turn
Chatspa crossed Panmure very
sharply, causing that horse to be
checked severely, and in the short
run home Panmure’s rider was unable
to get sufficiently close to Chatspa
to justify a protest; the winning
margin was two lengths, and Pan-
mure’s rider, R. Heather, wisely for-
bore ; the stipes, however, gave young
Winslett a month’s “holiday.”
Strongly favored to win the Nur-
sery Plate for maiden fillies on the
strength of recent minor placings, the
Hellespont filly Just Jane showed her-
self a faint-hearted creature, after
having more than a fair chance. On
the move as the tapes went up, Just
Jane gained a three-lengths break on
the field at barrier-rise, but she
showed not an ounce of spirit when
tackled by Swadeshi (J. Purtell) in
the straight. Swadeshi, a daughter
of Dhoti and raced by her breeder,
E. A. Underwood, went on to a com-
fortable win from the favorite, with
Folkstone a far-away third.
Swadeshi’s success notched up a
double for Dhoti, who is certainly a
most prolific sire of early winners.
The Youthful Stakes for maiden colts
and geldings went to the bay colt
Chateau Prince (W. Williamson), an
interestingly-bred son of Dhoti, since
he traces back through his dam,
Tetrinia, to The Tetrarch; on both
accounts Chateau Prince should have
a tidy turn of speed. In the minor
places behind Chateau Prince were
Play Ground (by Gynerium) and Gay
Ghost (by Peerage), but Faux Pas,
in fourth place, more particularly
looked one to follow.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances): —
Two-year-old Encourage (fillies):
Even Flow, 1; Lady Rosetta, 2;
Honey way, 3. Three-year-old Handi-
cap : Anahuac, 1; Dona Marcheta,
2; Crag Son, 3. Juvenile Encourage:
Beanbah, 1; English Standard, 2;
Gloucester, 3, Novice Handicap:
Seraya, 1; River Gem, 2; Crownall,
3. Sefton Handicap: Wattle, 1; Skip
Court, 2; Blue Flag, 3. Warwick
January Handicap: Wiranya, 1;
Steady, 2; Penthrillus, 3. Minto
Handicap: Fra Diavolo, 1; Lone
Duke, 2; Chessman, 3.
* * * *
The Australian Turf is indebted to
New Zealand not only for some of
the finest horses ever seen here, but,
as well, for some fine men of the
type who are an adornment to the
game. One such was George Price,
passed on in Sydney last week at
72, after a long illness. In his youth
a crack lightweight rider. Price, on
retirement from the saddle, took up
training and, persuaded by the late
Ned Moss, crossed the Tasman to
make his mark on racing in Aus-
tralia. With a procession of fine
horses passing through his hands
over the years, pretty well ever major
race in the calendar came Price’s
way sooner or later. Windbag,
Cuddle, Gold Rod, Veilmond, Kuvera
and Mildura were some of the out-
standing horses he trained. Fellow
New Zealander Maurice McCarten
was for years his No. 1 rider, and
the combination reaped a rich har-
vest. Melbourne Cup, Sydney Cup,
Metrop., Epsom, King’s Cup, V.R.C.
and AJ.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes,
Champagne Stakes, three St. Legers
and four Doncasters were some of
the wins which came as a well-
merited reward for a fine trainer and
a splendid fellow,
* * * *
A splendid fighting stand for 114
in the second innings by S’African
skipper Dudley Nourse instilled life
into the second Test at Captown last
week after the match had seemed
likely to be yet another too-easy
victory for the Australian tourists.
The Australians had closed their first
innings at 7 for 526. Managing only
278 in their first attempt, the
S’Africans were forced to follow on,
but Nourse’s century, together with
some able support from Tayfield (75)
and Mann (46), resulted in a second-
innings tally of 333, and at least
gave the home side the satisfaction
of forcing the visitors to bat again.
With 105 minutes’ play left the Aus-
tralians needed 86 to win; accurate
spin-bowling by Mann and Tayfield
held the scoring rate down for a
while, but Morris (24), Moroney (19),
Harvey (23 n. 0.) Miller (16 n. 0.) and
sundries (5) compiled the necessary
with time to spare.
By way of relaxation, with the
two Tests behind them, the tourists
began a match v. Eastern Province
on Saturday. Doubtless conserving
his luck for the next Test, Hassett
contrived to lose the toss, a circum-
stance which the opposing skipper
thought so suspicious that he re-
quested his visitors to bat first in
any case. Certainly if his suspicions
were related to the state of the pitch
they were unfounded, as the troops
in general, and Keith Miller in par-
ticular, proceeded to demonstrate.
Young Harvey gave a brilliantly-
polished display before being stumped
at 64, but it was Miller who treated
the crowd of 12,000 to a feast of
mighty swiping until, with 131 on
the board, he went the only way it
had seemed conceivable that he
would —caught, attempting yet an-
other sixer. As it was, his total
included seven fours and six sixes,
one of the latter clean over the
pavilion and out of the ground. G.
Langley notched up 58, Hassett the
even half-century, and, with others
contributing in assorted measure, the
Australian tally was 418. At stumps
on Saturday the Eastern Province
response stood at 12, with no wickets
down, though R. Connell had been
obliged to retire after attempting to
glance Lindwall with his left ear.
* * * *
Played as it was over the turn-of-
the-year period, the Sheffield Shield
match N.S.W. v. Q’land may have
been a good omen for cricket in the
new year. The first two days, played
in 1949, were deadly dull, but the
final two days, greeting 1950, left
nothing to be desired on the score of
brightness. With the first-innings
scores Q’land 231 and N.S.W. 251
the Bananalanders batted attractively
and brightly on the third day for a
total of 227, leaving the ’Walers the
modest-enough task of finding 208 for
victory, How they went about the
task, however, was nobody’s business;
some of the “star” batsmen turned
in performances which would shame
a schoolboy third-grader. One fel-
low —we forbear from naming the
miscreant—was out l.b.w. standing in
front of his wicket with his bat held
motionless on high a la Statue of
Liberty, waiting for the ball to pass
harmlessly by him, which, being
devoid of the spin he had anticipated,
it did not.
An hour or two’s play in the
morning of the final day saw the
match transformed from an even con-
test with N.S.W. in the ascendant to
all the makings of a pushover for
Queensland. Then, with his side in
a seemingly hopeless position, came
skipper Ron James to play as fine
a grim, fighting innings as the Sydney
Cricket Grouncj has sighted. With
72 needed, James was joined by tail-
ender Tom Brooks, leaving, as sole
reinforcement, J. BUrke, who was
nursing a broken finger and under
doctor’s orders not to play. With
Brooks nobly holding up his end
when the strike did occasionally
come his way, James gradually
whittled down the leeway. When
Brooks had come in a fair part of
the crowd had made ready for de-
parture; gradually they settled down
again and discovered, in some
amazement, that they were going to
need those sandwiches for afternoon
tea. James finally went with 17 still
required. In came Burke; he was
able to do little more than block ’em,
or occasionally glance a single, but
the runs slowly came up and big
Tom Brooks, as it should have been,
made the winning hit.
* * * *
Olympic champion sculler Merv
Wood, who was beginning to run a
trifle short of new worlds to con-
quer, tackled and beat, under handi-
cap conditions, a four and an eight
on the Parramatta-river course, Syd-
ney, on Sunday, Occasion was a
pleasant semi-private outing arranged
by the N.S.W. Rowing Association
to give rowing folk, particularly, an
opportunity of seeing their Empire
Games representatives in action. The
race was rowed over a 2000-metres
course, Merv being conceded a fair
start by the Haberfield four, which
is to represent at the Games, and
which, in turn, was spotted a start
by the Games eight. Without its
mattering much who won, it was a
splendid workout for all concerned.
* * * *
Some of the excellent times
recorded at the Australian athletic
championships in Adelaide last week
made one wonder just what some of
the winners would have clocked on
something more resembling a cham-
pionship arena. Outstanding per-
formance of the meeting was un-
doubtedly Marjorie Jackson’s 10.8 sec.
for the 100yds. registered on a bumpy
track with a rise of 6jin. and a
finishing line disturbingly close to
the boundary fence. The time
equalled the world-record held by
Fanny Blankers-Koen, and showed
that there was no fluke about Miss
Jackson’s effort of twice beating
Mrs. Blankers-Koen when the Dutch
sprinter toured Australia last year.
* * * *
This year’s Wagga Gift, worth
£2OO and a cup to the winner, has
been won by a 21-year-old Griffith
lad, Terry Woods, The race, 130
yards, was contested by 71 runners
from all parts of N.S.W., and the
winning time, 12 seconds dead, was
two-tenths of a second better than
clocked last year. Young Woods,
the son of a Griffith hairdresser,
chose a propitious day to win the
Gift: it was his 21st birthday.


m**i
\
AML‘.F
• Behind every bale of your
wool lie years of courageous
planning and effort.
A.M.L.&F. realise this. That’s
why they give your hard-
earned wool the same
personal care and supervision
as you would yourself, and
that’s why you can be sure of
the best possible price when
you send your clip to
A.M.L.&F.
86 Years in the Service of the Mon on the Land,
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863. a».«
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE. LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches— N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Oowra, Scone,
Moree, Oarah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: OharleviUe, St.,
George, Ounnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents: McPhie & Go. fty..
Ltd/ Toowoomba, Oalcey, Dalby and Pittsworth. Vic.: Wodonga.
“ Phenovis ” Worm Remedy
0 -
ching time ‘ s
* t
tim#
f
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
•ZV/
//>/
‘PHENOVIS
Phenothiazine Drench
ŵ
ẁ
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2- X-8191
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Rams or Wethers for Wool.
“Murrawong”: Always the
rams have had the best of it.
They are usually selected for
their superiority in conforma-
tion and wool characteristics;
they get the pick of the pasture
and handfeeding when neces-
sary, whereas the poor old
wether has to battle all the time.
He gets the least attention, the
paddocks with rankest feed or
heaviest grass-seed and the
longest walk to water, and then
is expected to be No. 1 bale-
filler at shearing. Wethers are
seldom, if ever, culled, yet in
spite of that they stand up to
disease, flystrike, external and
internal parasites better than the
breeding flocks, and for body-
weight or fleece-weight are
headed only by the pampered
ram.
The C.5.1.R.0. made an ex-
periment on rams and wethers
doubly interesting by testing the
theory that late castration gives
increased production of carcass
and fleece* It was done at Gil-
ruth Plains (s.-w. Q.) over nearly
three years and under continu-
ous droughty conditions. Annual
rainfalls were: 1944, 9in.;
1945, 11.75; 1946, 7.19; 1947,
IHin. for five months, including
one fall of 9in.
To ensure no advantage in
breeding or body characteristics
to the rams, a run of 90 male
lambs was chosen and divided
into three groups; Losses re-
duced the number to 67, and
this constituted the trial flock.
All three groups were run as one
mob on the same pasture, and at
weaning the average weights of
each group ranged from 23.71 b.
to 24.91 b. —close enough to
evenness for the purpose.
No. 1 group was marked at
five weeks old. At the same
time the rest were tailed and ear-
marked only. When the lambs
were weaned at four months,
group two was castrated and
the experiment started in earnest,
with group one as normally-
marked lambs, group two as
late-marked and group three as
rams.
Each group maintained a level
increase in weight until at six
months the lamb rams began to
shoot ahead. To the end of the
experiment there was practically
no difference in the rate of
growth or final average body-
weights between groups One and
two. Group three (the rams)
kept up a steady rate of in-
crease until at 33 months they
weighed 1261 b. a head, whereas
the wethers weighed 1031 b. a
head.
The only visible difference be-
tween the normally - marked
lambs and the late-marked ones
was in the heavier-horn growth
of the latter, which, however,
practically ceased after castra-
tion ; neither body- nor fleece-
weights showed any advantage.
The sheep were shorn three
times —at nine months, then with
a full year’s growth and finally
with 10 months’ wool. At nine
months there was practically no
difference between the weights
of wool cut, but at the second
shearing the r,ams had forged
ahead to average Hlb. per head
more than the wethers. At the
third shearing they were about
11b. per head better in fleece-
weights.
■ The increased fleece-weight of
the rams proves that castration
does affect wool-production and
body-weight. The experiment
would have acquired further
value had the surviving animals
been transferred to a higher-
rainfall area and the experiment
continued for another year or
two.
Instead of regarding fleece-
weights as the criterion, the ex-
tended experiment would have
created greater interest had re-
sults been based on clean-scoured
rather than on greasy yields, and
with production per head valued
in £ s. d. to demonstrate the
effect of castration on wool
characteristics. As a ram puts
on age, the condition in his wool
increases considerably and tends
to remain stronger in count than
wether wool. Although the ex-
periment will add much to our
knowledge, it is not to be ex-
pected that breeders will leave
their male lambs entire to gain
the theoretical advantages
shown. Given the same atten-
tion as the average wether mob
gets, 1000 five-year-old wethers
would show a better aggregate
return than a similar number of
rams used for meat- and wool-
production only.
Linseed-growing.
“He-Ne”: Western N.S.W.
wheat-farmers who might be
thinking about it have been
warned by special agronomist
W. M. Curteis that linseed can
be regarded as a sure crop only
in the wetter area of the north-
west and on the irrigation areas.
Good crops could be grown in
the better-rainfall parts of the
central-west and southern slopes.
Linseed is a risky crop in dis-
tricts where the rainfall is be-
low about 23in. a year and where
its distribution is variable. Lin-
seed requires a good and well-
distributed rainfall or irriga-
tion during the period from
April to October. It is more
susceptible to critical conditions
in September than wheat.
“Apple-a-Day.”
“Brocket”: A N.Z. grazier
claimed to have cured ewes suf-
fering from pregnancy toxaemia,
in the later stages, by dosing
them with the juices squeezed
from cabbage leaves and similar
vegetables.
I had some early-lambing ewes
folded in a large orchard in Tas-
mania, grassed with English rye
and clovers. It was during a
time when vast quantities of
apples were going to waste, and
in this orchard were stacked
cases of Sturmer apples. As the
Fruit Board could not market
the fruit I fed the apples to the
ewes. The sheep were very fat
and very lazy, likely subjects for
pregnancy tox, but not one of
them showed the least sign of the
disease and most of them
dropped twins.
Some miles distant we had
“Let go, Jacky, an' I'll crack its back!”
several hundred ewes due to
lamb a couple of months later.
Shortly after the drop com-
menced we struck trouble with
p.t. The first case was brought
to my notice about 8 a.m. and
was in an advanced stage, the
ewe being almost comatose. We
put some apples through a juice-
squeezer, got the ewe propped
up and gave her several ounces
of the juice; an hour later the
ewe showed improvement and
was given more juice, by evening
that ewe was on her feet and
nibbling green oats, and within
48 hours was back to normal.
She dropped twins in due course.
The whole of that lambing we
had apple-juice ready, and dosed
every ewe showing symptoms of
p.t., and we did not lose a single
ewe from the disease. One big
advantage is that the ewes be-
come keen on the juice, and after
the first taste will take to it like
a cat to milk, so there is no
trouble in administering doses.
I am aware that veterinarians
may regard this with some
scepticism, but don’t forget they
advise plenty of fresh green feed
as a preventative. The trouble
evidently arises from some form
of digestive disorder; apple-
juice, from my own experience
appears to be one of the desired
correctives.
Bamboos Have Uses.
“W.C.Q.”: Bamboos are
really giant grasses and can be
grown usefully in many districts.
They are particularly hardy
when once established, and do
not demand a high rainfall. In
fact, in localities of high rain-
fall, they could become a pest.
In drier areas bamboo may
be controlled and made to serve
as windbreaks. Along stream
verges it will stop erosion.
The poles of giant bamboo are
particularly good for construct-
ing temporary stock paddocks;
they are more durable than some
bush timbers. Small canes will
make good fishing-rods and tool-
handles, and the home wireless
aerial is usually supported on
bamboo poles.
They are propagated by cut-
tings or severed canes laid in
shallow trenches. Any season
when the soil is moist will do,
but they will get going faster if
set during the warm weather.
Protect the young canes from
stock, which like the leaves very
much.
Coloring Concrete.
“Pongo”: There’s more to it
than mixing any old pigment
with the cement and sand.
Portland cement is markedly
basic in character, contains free
lime, and suitable pigments are
restricted to basic oxides and
limeproof ochres.
Here is a list of favorite
colors, with the pigments re-
quired to produce them and
quantities in pounds of pig-
ments necessary per bag of
cement: Black, germanton black
or manganese dioxide, 10-121 b.
(ordinary lampblack is unsatis-
factory). Blue, ultramarine blue,
5-61 b. Green, light, ultramarine
green, 5-61 b.; medium, lime
green, 7-91 b.; dark, chromium
oxide, 8-101 b. Red, iron oxide
or crimson lake, with alumina
base, 4-61 b. Bright red, Pom-
peian or English red, 6-71 b.
Brown, roasted iron oxide or
brown ochre, 6-81 b. Yellow or
buff, yellow ochre or barium
chromate, 6-81 b.
Cured in sunlight, colors will
be lighter than if cured in shade.
Use of a steel floating-trowel
will make colors darker than if a
wooden tool be used. Trowel-
ling partly-cured surfaces will
result in color blotches.
Pure white concrete is very
difficult to produce, and is only
obtained by using white Portland
cement mixed with either white
sand, crushed white quartz,
white marble or white lime-
stone.
Warning on Rye.
“C.A.A.”: Commenting on the
recent Victorian Mallee soil-
drift - control competition the
senior conversation officer of the
Soil Conservation Board (R. G.
Thomas) said that while noting
the increased use of rye corn as
a light soils stabiliser, and expres-
sing the hope that a continuing
export trade would increase the
use of the cereal, he had to warn
of its limitations.
Eroded land sown to rye and
producing a heavy crop has not,
he emphasised, been treated and
cured ; it has merely been stabi-
lised and requires careful
handling.
Another point was the great
increase in stock carried last
year. This should only be done
where adequate fodder reserves
are available. Otherwise heavy
stocking will inevitably lead to
loss of soil through overgrazing
and trafficking, apart from the
financial losses likely to be sus-
tained by being forced to sell on
a falling market.
Soil-conservation.
“Agric”: Country on Comon-
gin station, near Quilpie (Q.),
which a few years ago was wind-
swept claypan, is now carrying
splendid feed, as the result of
contour-ploughing costing about
3s. 6d. per acre. The manager
of Comongin (G. W. Mcllroy)
said it was useless to plough
across claypan country. To be
effective furrows must follow
the land contour. The contour
lines on Comongin are surveyed
with a fall of iin. to the chain,
and are then turned, to form
contour banks about half a
chain apart, but varying accord-
ing to the fall of the land.
The bank is on the downhill
side of the furrow, and when
rain falls water collects in the
“hollow” instead of running off
and becoming lost to the land.
Shortly afterwards rough scrub
makes its appearance, saltbush
and burr usually providing the
first cover. Over the past five
years about 3000 acres of clay-
pan country on Comongm have
been reclaimed, and some of it
is now to be sown with Mitchell-
and blue-grass.
Where the banks have been
made Mitchell-grass, of which
the claypan country formerly
carried a heavy stand, is already
coming back, and the reclaimed
land stood up well to two recent
draughts. Mcllroy says the pro-
cess is not his own idea, but he
is the first to try it out in his
district, and it was started as the
result of noticing water lying in
wheel-tracks after storms and
herbage growth following. A
crawler-tractor, twin-disk plough
and a grader are used to break
up the ground.
Pasturage.
“Mr.”: A. C. T. Hewitt,
M.Agr.Sc. (Vic.), states that a
cow producing 4001 b. of butter-
fat in the year consumes about
24 tons of pasture. A sheep
needs about 7±lb. of green pas-
ture a day and a ewe with lamb
at foot 151 b. AWe with lamb
sold fat at 16 weeks grazes about
1| tons of green pasture in a
year, whereas a dry sheep eats
U tons.
High-producing animals, says


The
Mutual Life and
Citizens' Assurance
Co. ( Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagb
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £60,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£9,500,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
REfjlß
At all times, and
especially In the bath, Cuticura
Soap makes the skin delightfully
smooth and charming. Cuticura
Soap has antiseptic proper
ties which remove all trace
of roughness and soreness.
One of the famous trio—
Cuticura Soap, Oint* -
ment. Talcum
Powder.
•Ssf
icura
lOAP 77
Rupture
Sufferers —try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
FREE
Call or send stamp for
FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and U days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
#ll
EYE LOTION
For mflamed Eyes and Eyelidr
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A.Rose&Co.Pty.Ltd.KingSt.Sydnev
MARK YOUR
THE MODERN
LAMBS
WAY
ELASTRATOR
REGD TRADE MARK
CASTRATOR & TAILER
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
266 Flinders Street. Melbourne, C.l ]
Nvm
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
3
u
w
40z., 802., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
A Review of Economic, Market and Financial Conditions,
Company Accounts and Mining Activities.
Published by “The Bulletin ”
2/- per isingle copy—22/6 a year post free.
The W-Speed
PATROL
M m wk M Mm MM
ŵ
ẁ
■ * '*lll
1 'jK f-HP
mmm
oo
m
m
'timk
11
isi
ẃ
ALL PURPOSE! for light grading..maintenance..construction
All these jobs and many more make this popular ALLIS-CHALMERS’ W-SPEED
PATROL the most versatile light grading machine ever offered. It is also a real
money-saver—the engine is protected at all times from changing loads by a trigger-
quick fly-ball governor. Fuel is saved, wear is reduced and maintenance costs are
cut. The W-SPEED PATROL gives you 31 Belt h.p.—26
Drawbar h.p., and is equipped with a 10ft. blade, ensuring
adequate strength plus speed with all light grading and
construction undertakings.
I
JL
ẅ
@
MODEL HD- 19.
With fingertip hydraulic steer-
ing and Torque Converter,
balancing speed with load, it
has a drawbar pull of more
than 36,000 lbs. Faster, simpler
servicing, too.
MODEL HD-5. 37 h.p., 11,000 lbs.
tractor—smallest of AC Crawler
range, featuring 2-cycle diesel
power with electric push-button
starting.
MODEL AD GRADER. A 2-cycle
diesel engine for road surfaces,
ditches, clearing camp sites, yards,
etc. Features full circle revolving
blade. Weight: 21,500 lbs.
sinv
11/93.10
Hewitt, must be given food as
they need it, and this is where
one of the greatest problems of
livestock-farming in this coun-
try is met. In Victoria grasses
and clovers, which form the bulk
of the forage in a pasture, don t
grow at an even rate throughout
the year. Most of the growth
occurs in spring, when farm
animals cannot cope with it. For
the rest of the year it is insuffi-
cient for normal requirements.
In a test over a period of six
years at Glenormiston, western
Victoria, average pasture-
growth was about 12ilb. per acre
per day from January to June.
In July it rose to 251 b. per day,
in August to 751 b., in September
to 1501 b. The peak of produc-
tion was reached in October,
when the average was 2001 b. By
November, however, it had
dropped to 1001 b. and to 501 b.
by December.
When such pastures are used
for dairying and the grazing rate
is one cow to V t acres, sufficient
food is available off the pad-
docks only during the months of
spring. For the remaining nine
months of the year cows need
supplementary food which
should be provided from the
hay or silage conserved from ex-
cess pasture - growth m the
spring.
On a well-improved property
at Caldermeade growth of pas-
ture averaged 16 tons per acre
per year—l 3 tons from July to
December and three tons in the
other six months of the year,
varying from 601 b. per acre per
day in July to 2251 b. in October ;
then to 251 b. in February and
March.
Growth at Caldermeade was
the heaviest measured on any of
the plots conducted by the Vic-
torian Pasture Improvement
League, yet it did not provide
sufficient food for the cattle all
the year round. Such a pasture,
grazed at the rate of one dairy-
cow to acre, would result in
the loss of about three tons of
green pasturage per acre each
spring. On such a farm the best
procedure, considers Hewitt,
would be to close up four acres
in every 10 about the middle of
August and maintain the herd
on the remaining area. The
paddocks closed up would be
cut for hay or silage, cutting two
tons of hay or five tons of silage
to the acre. This could be used
to even up production during
the leaner months.
Facts and Figures.
“He-Ne”; A fact-crammed
booklet entitled Facts and
Figures for Farmers has just
been published by the N.S.W.
Farmers and Settlers’ Associa-
tion. It was compiled by
honorary treasure Horace K.
Nock. Farmers into whose
hands this 100-page booklet
falls will never be able to say
it is not good value for the
money, because it contains
everything about wheat-stabilisa-
tion, cost of production, returns
from wheat pool, the Nelunga-
loo Privy Council wheat case,
meat matters, shearing awards,
postal charges, tax deductions,
how to make a mill and how to
kill rats. In addition, just for
good measure Nock includes
some useful information such as
weights and measures and some
popular quotations.
A Tree for Inland.
“Liss”: Queensland graziers
have been discussing, off and on,
for some time past the low lamb-
ing percentages marked on the
comparatively shadeless northern
and western downs as compared
with the higher figures obtained
on the well-shaded country
further in. The Australian
Wool Board passed the matter
on to C.5.1.R.0., and Dr. lan
Clunies Ross, its head, is re-
ported to have told the board
that it is a matter of finding a
suitable type of tree.
There should be no trouble
to find the tree. It is already
growing around countless home-
steads, having been introduced
some 25 years ago. Known
generally as the Algaroba, there
are two or three varieties of it,
one of which, I think, is Cera-
taria siliqua, though I am on
uncertain ground there. Easily
grown from seed, hardy and
fast-growing, it has transformed
the surroundings of many
homes. Moreover, the trees bear
an abundance of beanlike pods
which are relished by stock.
The difficulties are twofold;
lack of watering facilities and
the problem of protecting the
young plantations from live-
stock. Irrigation of clumps of
young trees is not so awkward
where the bores flow or where
the water is pumped along
drains, but in districts where
sub-artesian water is the only
supply the trees must be planted
near the bore, which is not very
desirable, especially as sub.
water is seldom suitable for con-
stant use on the same ground,
being, as a rule, highly
mineralised.
In any case, for the best re-
sults the shade must occur not
only near the water but also at
some considerable distance from
it, and when one realises that it
is frequently possible to be four
miles or more from water in a
paddock and the average pad-
dock would be not less than
5000 acres the complexity of the
problem is easily recognised.
The protection of the plantations
presents a further difficulty, as
all fence-posts must be hauled
by lorry and rail for long dis-
tances, often costing 6s. and more
each landed on the property.
Wire is unprocurable, and so is
labor for planting, protection
and after-care.
Hints for the Farm.
“Will C”: Arrowroot is a
first-class food for pigs (B.
14/12/’49), and it grows well on
the Queensland coast. The tubers
seem to do best when planted
just before the summer rains.
The canna-like plants die down
during the dry season, and the
tubers are then ready to lift. If
some are left in the soil, they
will produce fresh plants, but
such a practice tends to work
out the soil.
“Sarina”; Late - harvested
crops of Q5O cane around
Mackay (N.Q.) revealed excep-
tionally low sugar content
Some tests were as low as 4 p.c,;
cane is condemned if the sugar
content goes below 7 p.c. The
season was fairly dry, but
farmers are inclined to think that
Q5O, a new variety, should
always be harvested early in the
season.
“Bill C.”: Cut out the water-
ing of tomatoes when the fruits
are reaching full size. It delays
ripening, and, if the tomatoes are
picked while green from heavily-
watered plants, they often don’t
ripen but go rotten.
“W. Court”: Cutworms are
usually more plentiful in new
land than in old. Anyone who
tries to grow vegetables of the
cabbage family in land from
which sweet potatoes have
recently been dug can expect
plenty of cutworm trouble. The
well-known bait of bran, treacle
and Paris green or arsenate of
lead is not to be sneered at if
used properly. It must be fresh,
however, and is more certain to
be eaten if strewed along the
drills at sundown and lightly
covered with soil.


■
IH
s
i
ah
h
m
A
\
m
mm.
m*
9
as®
; S;
*9
TOP DOG
SHIRTS
55T
THE BRAND WITH A PEDIGREE
/
/
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOiS( 4
dsuixrvAN
IF ST S
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co,
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, .LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
MEMORis^THEASE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands,
13 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, 8.E.8, Victoria.
' 1-i,
B3S
The Machinery
People
281 Latrobe St.. Melbourne.
• Engineers’ Machine Tools.
Electric Tools • Woodworking
• Circular and Band Saws. 4
Saw Repairs.
MU 2-321
• Portable
r Machines.
I All types
Brest, and played out the final
act of the drama when she
crumpled under the Bikini atom-
blast in 1946.
All that day. May 25, contact
was lost.
AT 1030 on Monday, May
26, a Catalina of Coastal
Command’s 209 Squadron broke
from a patch of cloud and to her
delighted surprise saw a white-
tailed battleship beneath her.
The battleship let loose a brace
of shells that holed her like a
colander. The ether hummed
and carrier Ark Royal, coming
up with Renown from Gibraltar,
immediately flew off two recco
aircraft fitted with long-range
tanks. Soon these had her, and
their position report placed Bis-
marck 130 miles south of
Admiral Tovey in King George
V, which plunged after her
elusive target at 22 knots. But
the German had too great a lead.
Tovey’s only hope was to stop
her with torpedoes; and the
shortage of fuel in the Home
Fleet was causing anxiety.
At 2.50 that afternoon Ark
Royal launched 15 Swordfish,
which sailed away and with great
zeal dropped 11 Duplex tor-
pedoes. Two exploded on hitting
the water, three in crossing the
target’s wake and the remaining
six the target successfully
combed. This attack drew not a
shot in reply; but the language
on her bridge made up in
vehemence what it lacked in fire-
power. Target was cruiser
Sheffield!
Those Swordfish which had
unloaded returned to base, re-
loaded with the old-and-tried
contact-type torpedoes and flew
off again at 7.15 p.m. Bismarck
had moved over under a cold
front which reduced ceiling to
2000 ft., but Sheffield put them on
to their right target. The Sword-
fish made up for their unwel-
come attentions to the cruiser
by placing two 300-odd pound
warheads neatly and with crip-
pling effect under Bismarck’s
rudder. The great ship was at
once forced up into the wind,
now almost gale force, with her
bows towards the C.-in-C., who,
now joined by battleship Rodney,
was racing to meet her,
KIEGHT was approaching, and
* so was Captain Philip Vian,
D. 5.0., in destroyer Cossack (of
Altmark fame) with four of his
pack. He sighted Bismarck at
10.38 p.m., just as the last
shadowing aircraft was leaving
for Ark Royal. Bismarck
showed her teeth, then crawled in
behind a smoke-screen. It was
obvious to Vian that if the Ger-
man could be held the C.-in-C.
would get her. With his paper-
thin gnats he decided to hold her.
A destroyer would roll on wet
grass and the pack was more
often under than over the
Atlantic ridges as they plunged
in to bite. Perhaps this wild
yawing saved their lives. Bis-
marck’s gunnery-control was un-
impaired, she brought both main
and secondary armaments to
bear, yet the game little craft
were barely damaged.
Approaching from different
angles to divide her fire, Cossack
and Maori dispatched their tor-
pedoes and were gratified to see
two from each ship strike home,
Maori’s last torpedo blooming
into a fierce, wind-whipped blaze
on the battleship’s fo’c'sle.
* All night they worried, in and
out and in again, even to the
range of their own peashooters,
their gallantry impelling Admiral
Tovey to report: “The conduct
of the night operations by these,
destroyers was a model of its.
kind. In heavy weather,
frequently under fire, they hung
on to their prey with the utmost
determination, hit her with tor-
pedoes and delivered her to me
the next morning.”
The G.-in-C signalled Ark
Royal and Renown to keep hot
less than 20 miles south of Bis-
marck, “to clear my approach” ;
Norfolk arrived before dawn and
placed herself n.-e. of Bismarck,
to mark fall-of-shot for the
battleships in the morning;
cruiser Dorsetshire was closing
the arena and the C.-in-C. with
King George V and Rodney
worked round to the westward,
to windward, to drive down-wind
on to the enemy at first light.
WEATHER throughout the
whole operation had been
bad; now it was worse. Tues-
day, May 27, broke greyly over
a wilderness of tumbling brine.
A fresh gale was driving walls
of green water over Bismarck’s
rudderless length, held head to
sea in the grip of the 40-knot
wind. Visibility under a cloud-
pall was about 12 miles, and at
the edge of it Rodney’s enormous
turreted fo’c’sle, fringed with
cascades of watery lace, at last
filled Bismarck’s glasses.
The German, unable to steer,
could yet raise 10 knots, and
her terrible guns were still in
shooting order. Her radar was
accurate up to 24,000 yards,
and she still had her stereoscopic
rangefinders.
Tovey decided to run down-
wind, when his ships would be a
comparatively stable gun-plat-
form, would present small head-
on targets, would force Bismarck
to buck into the breaking seas
and would present her gunnery-
controllers, already on the verge
of exhaustion, after four nervous
days and nights, with the form
of two belching battleships bear-
ing straight upon them. Finally,
the range was to be rapidly
closed, regardless of punishment
received, to ensure rapid and
concentrated hitting.
The long-distance historian
can feel pity, and not a little
admiration, for the great ship
awaiting her death. She had
gambled gallantly, had almost,
cleared Denmark Strait unseen,
and when sighted had fought a
numerically superior enemy
with devastating brilliance, and
had slipped the hunt only to
have the mission of her 35,000
armored tons, her gre&t guns
and engines and the thousand-
odd men who worked them frus-
trated by a wire-strutted old bi-
plane.
DISMARCK was sighted at
h—■ * 8.43 a.m., bearing about s.-e.
from the British heavies, range
miles, about 500 miles west
of Brest, steaming directly to-
wards them. Three minutes
later Rodney’s triple-turreted
fo’c’sle broke into flame and
smoke. The roar of the broad-
side was echoed by King George
V, and almost at once by Bis-
marck. The enemy’s fire was
accurate at first, but under the
appalling deluge of shells
directed at her soon fell off.
Prince of Wales had been green ;
the other two now showed what'
trained crews —navigation teams,
control personnel and turret and
sweating shellroom crews
welded under the finest discip-
linary organisation in existence,
could effect.
Broadside after broadside
burst into the German ship ; not
a stray shell here and there, but
six out of nine of a salvo, con-
centrated into the danger area
by months of monotonous drill
at laying-and-training practice ;
by meticulous attention to such
minute corrections as allowance
for differing temperatures of
cordite charges and the infini-
tesimal difference between the
scoring of one barrel and an-
other, so that all guns flung their
loads exactly the same distance ;
and by intelligent and well-
drilled application of that in-
credibly accurate mechanical
brain, the British fire-control
table, whose efficiency the Ger-
mans may have equalled, but no
Navy has ever passed.
Bismarck had opened at
Rodney, and, with the range de-
creased to 10 miles, shifted fire
to King George V—with little
effect. By 9.5 a.m. both British
ships had their secondary arma-
ment in action. King George V
her twin-turreted 5.25’s and
Rodney as many of her 12 6in.
as would bear.
It was difficult to see the effect
of armor-piercing shell, as bursts
were inside. But after half an
hour Bismarck was fiercely on
fire and out of control. She had
one turret still in action, her
gunnery was erratic, but she was
still steaming.
Then King George V draped
herself with flags, and in
obedience Rodney hauled off so
that the Britishers’ lines of fire
were at right-angles ; that is, one
ship ahead of the target, 'the
other on its beam, and Bismarck
at the juncture of fire. Then, in
“rapid broadsides,” and with
Norfolk and Suffolk vengefully
adding their quota, both battle-
ships bore in for the kill.
It is difficult to conceive the
frightful effect of that battering.
King George V mounted 10
14in. guns, and 10 5.25’5;
Rodney nine 16in., all on her
fo’c’sle, and 12 6in. and six 4.7’5.
Though all these weapons could
not be in action, at least half of
the smaller guns were, and more
than that proportion of the main
armaments. At a conservative
estimate Bismarck was absorbing
15 one-ton high-velocity pro-
jectiles every minute.
It was not so much the
amount of high-explosive thrown
af her—had it been exploded
openly on her hide it may have
produced $ crack here and there
—but the smashing force with
which its armored containers
carried it inside and exploded it
in her confined spaces that burst
and ruptured her.
By 1015 Bismarck was a wal-
lowing wreck, the seas breaking
over her as over a log, a pall of
smoke trailing down-wind, on
fire fore and aft, men jumping
overboard from the indescribable
hell, preferring the stormy sea
to the appalling effect of the
British fire.
At 3000 yards this had
mounted to a thunder which,
when it and the echoes of Dor-
setshire’s finishing torpedoes
had died away, left no answering
voice to rise upon the sea against
the strength of England.
Dorsetshire picked up four
officers, including the Third
Gunnery Officer, and 75 ratings.
Maori added a further 24 ratings.
A U-boat alarm was received
and the satiated Fleet dispersed
—King George V to Loch Ewe,
Rodney to the Clyde, Prince of
Wales to Hvalfiord, then to
Clyde for repairs, and Force
“H” back to its normal business
at Gibraltar.


cA
&
LUDOWICI
INDUSTRIAL
PACKINGS &
JOINTINGS
Oo facilitate ordering , J. C. LVDOWICI & SON LTD .
will gladly supply on request a specification sheet that
covers every vital factor to ensure satisfactory service
in the application of all types of Packings. It’s a free
J.C.L. Technical Service write for your copy to-day!
*****
rubber
* Sl t*r os
Gf *fn
COHfp
Oft*
'Osin
*ej
0
LudowiciV range of Industrial Packings and Jointings
now covers Industry’s full requirements. In addition
to our universally recognised line of Leather Packings
for hydraulic and pneumatic applications, we maintain
a complete range of high and low pressure steam pack-
ings and jointings in both Australian and imported
brands.
We also supply a full range of rubber and synthetic
rubber, packings, gaskets, dust excluders and the
approved Flu-Seal oil and grease retainers.
ẃ
J. C. IUDOWICI & SON ITD-,
117 YORK ST., SYDNEY. BX 5841. 20-28 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE. MX 3101-3.
Leather Belting • Rubber Belting • Conveyor and Elevator Belting • Round Leather Belting • Textile Leathers •
Belting Accessories • Leather Packings • High-Speed Grinder Belts • V Belt Drives • Industrial Clutches • Flam
Bearings • Anti-Friction Bearings • Steel Shafting • Shafting Couplings • Shafting Hangers' • Microid Bearing Metals
• Porous Bronze Bushes • Gears • Pulleys • Wall Brackets • Variable-Speed Drives' • Ludowici Pivot Drive •
Fla-Sea l Oil Retainers • Composition Packings • Lutex Industrial Plastics • Industrial Gloves • Rubber Hose •
Lemcol High Quality Trucks, Wheels, Castors, etc.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought.
(1) Is there any market in Australia
for preparations known as anthel-
mintics for the treatment of worms
in cattle and sheep? (2) What are
the chief internal parasites of sheep
and cattle in Australia ? (3) What
remedies are used?
(1) There is a very large market
for anthelmintics in Australia and
there is always room for a better
anthelmintic, but it would have to be
able to compete with those quoted
below in efficiency and price. (2)
The chief internal parasites of sheep
are Hcemonchus contortus, Tricho-
strongylus, Oesophogostonum colum-
bianum, Chabertia, liver-fluke (Fas-
ciola hepatica), Nematidirus and
lung-worms. Coccidia in both sheep
and cattle are also prevalent in cer-
tain districts. Other common worms
in cattle are Hcemonchus contortus,
nodule-worm, Trichostrongylus, liver-
fluke and stomach-fluke. (3) Control
of intestinal parasites is obtained by
means of carbon tetrachloride, blue-
stone nicotine and phenothiazine, and
while results may not be 100 p.c.,
these drugs give efficient control of
internal parasites if used at the
proper time.
# * *
(1) Did Jack Blackburn ever fight
Sam Langford, and did he train Joe
Louis? (2) Was Stanley Ketchel a
negro ?
(1) Jack Blackburn and Sam Lang-
ford fought a 12-rounds draw in 1903,
a 15-rounds draw and a six-rounds
no-decision contest in 1904 and two
15-round draws in 1905. Both were
big lightweights, but well under the
welter limit of 10.7. Blackburn was
Joe Louis’s teacher from the begin-
ning of his career and his adviser-in-
chief until he (Blackburn) died. (2)
Stanley Ketchel was a white Polish-
American (real name Stanislaus
Klecal) born at Grand Rapids,
Michigan.
* * * *
Who in N. S. Wales developed the
test for salicylanilide in bananas ?
What is the reagent, is it obtainable
commercially, and how is the reagent
solution prepared?
The test was developed in the
chemists’ branch of the N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Department for the use of
the banana inspectors attached to
the division of horticulture. The
reagent antipyrine was spe-
cially prepared in the chemists’
branch for the test and is not avail-
able commercially yet, but Townson
and Mercer, Ltd., Sydney, have
placed an order overseas for the
reagent, and supplies can be expected
soon. The actual preparation of the
reagent solution is made by dissolv-
ing 2 grams of 4-amino antipyrine
in 100 millilitres of water.
* * * *
! How can snails in a garden be con-
trolled?
By a bait made of metaldehyde,
loz.; and bran, 41b. Mix the metal-
dehyde and, bran well and spread in
the evenings. Where stock-poisoning
is not a danger this bait may be
used: Calcium arsenate, 11b.; bran,
161 b.; and water, 1£ gallons. Mix
the chemical and the bran well, and
moisten with sufficient water to make
a crumbly (not sodden) mass. Spread
in the evening. Care must be taken
in handling this bait, which is
poisonous.
Brief Answers.
A.A.: (1) Since the end of July,
1949. (2) Reliance House, 301 Flin-
ders-lane, Melbourne. (3) To engage
in whaling in Australia and other
waters... ,J. 8.: Applications for
positions should be addressed to
Railway Employment Officer, Room
90, 2nd Floor, Central Station,
Sydney. The age-limit for appoint-
ment as an engine-cleaner is 35 years,
and applicants are required to pass
entrance medical and elementary edu-
cational examinations G.R.H.W.:
(1) The Commonwealth Bureau of
Mineral Resources is sending you a
copy of its pamphlet, No. 3, on
radioactive mineral deposits. (2)
Geiger-counters may be obtained, at
prices between £5O and £lOO, depend-
ing on the type you require, from
either Electro technic Co., Edgerton-
street, Lidcombe (N.S.W.), or Aus-
tronic Engineering Laboratories, 420
William-street, Melbourne 8.J.C.:
(1) Sow fresh seed thickly in leaf-
mould in a seedling-pan, which must
be kept moist in a bush-house. Seed
is very slow-germinating, and may
take months to germinate. (2) Jaca-
randa cuttings are hard to root. Seed
is woody structure; sow freely, lin.
deep, in loose mould; it germinates
freely in bush-house, in box. When
seedlings show up, transfer to filtered
sunlight outside... .M.W.D.: (1)
Jewellers’ rouge is a fine grade of red
oxide iron, and may be obtained
from the following firms: A. P. Barn-
castle, Ltd., 117 York-street; Perrot
and Adams, Ltd., 334 Kent-street;
and H. Pickering, Ltd. —all Sydney.
(2) Materials for plate-powder may
be obtained from Elliotts’ and Aus-
tralian Drug, Ltd., 20 O’Connell-
street; H. B. Selby, Ltd., 254 a
George-street; and Townson and
Mercer, Ltd., 23 Lang-street—all
Sydney.. . .L.S.H.: Without having
more precise details of the dates of
application of the sprays and the
concentrations of the materials in the
sprays it is difficult to answer the
inquiry. Both white-oil and lime-
sulphur can cause severe leaf-drop to
lemons when used at too great a
concentration, particularly during
warm weather. Applications of lime-
sulphur and white-oil in combina-
tion are hazardous, and, in addition,
one of these "sprays, if used within
three weeks of the other, may cause
damage... .A.G.8.: The matter seems
to lie fairly between the proprietor
and the council, Has she applied to
council for permission to do what
she wants? If so, has council given
their decision in writing? She could
seek legal advice of a solicitor who
understands building and building
regulations.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS, No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be
addressed to the Editor.
H.K.: “Unconsciously wringing her
hands the perspiration dripped on to
the floor.” What did the perspira-
tion wring out of her hands —dripping?
~. .L.M.: Sincere work, but it’s such
an old theme that finer treatment is
required... .P.H.D.; Doesn’t ring
true, and it’s uneven H.R.S.:
Why not shake up yotir sleepy suburb
by declaiming your poem from a
soap-box in the main street?
F.O’S.: “Give me the lass whose
god is wine!” You’d better stick to
the sort who prefer malted milkj^
W.F.P.: Not buying any gorillas
at the moment, thanks H.C.:
w
T.E.R.: A literary cobweb
A.M.C.: You and the basket can
fight it out between you. (P.S.—We
will back the basket)... .R.S.; A
trifle stale, don’t you think?....
S.M.: It’s a good story, but the
characterisation isn’t strong enough,
and you don’t bring out the humor
of the situation.,. .E.W.: “Over the
Bump” was a bit forced; why kill-
off 16-year-olds to make a point?
We have a big stock of stories,
but no refrigeration for corpses....
F.S.S.: As your shearers’ cook says,
“Snakes is the most exaggerated of
all animals” G.D. : Yours is the
1,297,674 th account of the old man
who wouldn’t sell his old horse and
died; what would interest us is how
you blokes resurrect him for yet
another story... .E.V.C.; The mother
who stabbed her convict son through
the prison bars reconciled us to
the equally-dramatic rendering of
“Mother Machree” by the man in
the flat opposite... .T.M.: We took
a swab of “Take a Swab” and
warned it off for life... .D.W.: No,
sir;*you need to be very clever or
very simple to write fairy-tales....
K.R.H.: It’s the Attlee austerity,
no doubt, that makes you write so
grim....K.: Being funny is a much
more serious business than you realise.
F.H.W.: We don’t want to
sound snobbish, but they aren’t our
type of people—or yours....
G.M.H.: At any rate, a hangman
officiating upon his inamorata who
had killed for his sake is certainly
a novel situation....J.A.H.: We re-
ceived “Twin Pigtails and a Tale,”
but imagine that the tale part got
lost in the post S.C.: “We Went
Fishing”—and we threw the tiny
thing back —again W.J.: Any-
way, the orphans got their Jbooks
J.G.: That girl carrying her six-
months-dead baby put us off our
Christmas dinner, so no one can say
your writing is ineffectual... .R.W.:
It’s a long way to send a satire on
an advertisement J.M.C.: Nine
hundred words for a one-line joke.
S.A.B.: “Strange Legacy” too
fictional; “Aunt Lavinia” too factual.
P.R.E.: “Hard To Get” hard to
read H.A.L.: So kind you are to
old Tom, we wish we might have been
kinder to you.
“Laetitia”: Celebrating its
centenary in 1950 is the Queens-
land grazing, dairying and tim-
ber district of Kilkivan, in the
Wide Bay district. Though its
economy is soundly based on
these pursuits today, there are
two interesting mining facets in
the district’s history. Firstly,
there was the discovery in the
1860’s of rich quicksilver de-
posits, and, as the only such field
in the British Empire, Kilkivan
cinnabar mines have played a
vital part in two war efforts.
Secondly, the town might have,
but for an instance of employee-
loyalty, antedated the bonanza
Gympie field as the site on
which the first payable gold was
discovered in Queensland. In
September, 1867, James Caul-
field, an employee on Widgee
station, one of the district’s
oldest properties, returned to the
homestead with a report of an
encounter on the run with a
stranger who bore all the hall-
marks of a prospector. The
stockman expressed to the
manager his disbelief in the
stranger’s story that he had
found only a few unpromising
colors, basing his doubt on the
man’s demeanor. The correct-
ness of the disbelief was demon-
strated a week later when the
stranger, whose name was James
Nash, discovered 30 miles away
the Gympie field, which, as every
Queensland schoolboy knows,
saved from bankruptcy the
northern State, whose Treasury
contained only Is. Bd. at the
time. Pressed for an explana-
tion why, in his near-certainty
that Nash had found gold-bear-
ing terrain, he had not trailed
the prospector, Caulfield replied:
“I was paid to muster Widgee
stock and not to chase gold.”
Three years later a party of ex-
New Zealand miners, working
out from Gympie, found the
west coast field at Kilkivan,
naming it after the finders’
native Maoriland district. The
site of the find is now the town’s
cemetery.
ALFRED DAMPIER.
ẁ


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Soldiers and Politicians
The usual gibes at “brasshats” were
thrown round by “Labor” before the
elections, and can be expected again
when the Government begins national
training. “Labor” apparently believes
that by spitting at the A.l.F.’s leaders it
is ingratiating itself with the ordinary
workers, who comprised the mass of the
A.I.F. and whom “Labor” claims to
represent.
That attitude shows how little “Labor”
understands the ex-serviceman worker.
The A.I.F. is Australia’s greatest tradi-
tion, and the rank-and-file are as proud
of it as the generals. Nobody reviled the
brasshats more than the private, but such
vilification he regarded as his exclusive
privilege. Political hacks who had never
been in either war have done nothing to
earn such a precious right.
“He’s a soldier.” That’s how the
A.I.F. referred to a leader it admired.
He might be outrageously cursed when
leave was short and training solid, but
the slanderous criticism often ended with
“All the same, the old b ’s a soldier! ”
Equally succinct, “He’s a politician,” was
the A.I.F. phrase for a member of Parlia-
ment. It needed no amplification.
If the politicians did their duty as fear-
lessly as the brasshats “H.e’s a politician”
might one day be as worthy a tribute as
“He’s a soldier.” — Mabsout (Vic.).
Education
I don’t know where “A.8.C.” (B,
14/12/’49) gets his facts from when he
says that England probably produced
more famous intellectual names in Tudor
and pre-Tudor times. That assertion may
be right, as all education of the period
was of the classical order rather than
commercial. The suggestion that a few
years’ study of logic, rhetoric and elocu-
tion might help to give us a little more
intellectual grace is not, however, a very
good one.
Consider the forces arrayed against us
in this commercial age. Before a child is
old enough to know the kind of litera-
ture which will debase his taste he is
overwhelmed with pernicious rubbish,
much of it in the form of alleged
“comics.” Many children survive this
hazard in the educational race, but there
are many more, not natural-born readers
perhaps, whose sole reading-matter will
for the rest of their lives consist of the
lurid and sensational.
Only slightly less pernicious is the
effect of a great deal of our radio enter-
tainment. Most parents know the diffi-
culty of getting children to do their home-
work during the sessions when those
masterpieces of radio-advertising, the
nightly serials, are in progress. This
habit of listening to third-rate matter is
very easily acquired—no intellectual
effort is needed at qll.
Naturally enough, perhaps, the com-
mercial radio-stations’ chief function is
to advertise their clients’ goods success-
fully and so pay their way. They have
no concern with elevating or instructing
public taste. _
Even if, as “A.8.C.” suggests, we
should spend so much time at school in
the study of logic and elocution, there is
little chance that this would offset the
detrimental influences at work in the
home atmosphere. What is really needed
is a stricter supervision of printed rub-
bish, particularly the imported variety,
and a set standard of radio entertainment
in place of the crude advertising and
mind-destroying matter we are given at
present. — Seahawk (Q.).
“A.8.C.” is justified in his strictures
and in his suggestion that more time
should be devoted in schools to elocution,
logic and rhetoric. Even when well in-
formed on his subject the average citizen
is apt to be “costive in his delivery” or
crude in his choice of words, An M.A.
may be tongue-tied when required to ex-
patiate on a theme for which he has won
a credit.
The cure for this dismal condition was
prescribed by Bacon: “Reading maketh
a full man, conference a ready
man and writing an exact man.”
Knowledge is not power when it is in-
articulate. Demosthenes as a stammerer
was a self-conscious failure. Only after
much “conference” with the waves and
The contributor placed first is paid
4i|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
trees did practice make him the perfect
orator.
Education means “drawing out,” not
cramming. Reading aloud in class makes
both ear and tongue familiar with the
best words in their best order. Essay-
writing compels concentration and en-
larges the vocabulary. Impromptu speak-
ing before- an audience tests and
strengthens latent ability to express
fluently the wisdom gained in silent study.
The time demanded for these exercises
could be found by dispensing with much
of the parsing and analysing which en-
able us to dissect language instead of
teaching us how to make it live.
Winston Churchill schooled himself
for his Parliamentary debut not by swot-
ting English usage but by composing
political addresses and delivering them
daily to the ocean during a long voyage.
—Practice (S.A.).
Prices
Most Australians will watch with in-
terest the efforts of the Menzies Gov-
ernment to give greater worth to the
pound-note. Like many others, I’ve been
astounded by the way in which prices
have spiralled, in the last year particu-
larly. Only this week I rubbed shoulders
with an old-age pensioner at a large
department-store window. Displayed
therein was an array of fashion shirts,
some of them being ticketed at £2 ss,
each. Not so many years ago the same
articles, with two detachable collars, were
sold at 12s. 6d,
Also, men’s sox were marked at ss, 6d.
a pair and pyjamas ranged up to
£2 ss.
In an adjacent window a display of
footwear for both sexes carried tickets
ranging up to £2 10s. a pair. Once
they could have been bought for a third
of that. My elderly companion mur-
mured “Too much for me,” and sadly
shook his head. Many of us on a wage
of £lO weekly would agree with him.
Traders are bemoaning the fact that
their volume of sales is down, despite
the large amount of money in circulation.
That will be the case for a long time.
The average shopper just won’t pay what
traders are asking, even while recognis-
ing that they must get their margins on
sales. — Ah Gee (W.A.).
I doubt the effectiveness of that much-
publicised remedy—increased production
—for the steadily falling value of the
pound.
The remedy seems to be based on the
assumption that with production over-
taking demand competition will be keen
enough to force down prices. It’s logical
to assume,' however, that if manufac-
turers and retailers can afford to reduce
their profit margins under stress of com-
“ Comfy ?”
petition, they could afford to reduce them
now. Such a move would not only be a
national service, but would provide an
incentive to workers to produce more.
Most of the blame for inflated prices
is being laid on the employee, but to
him the published reports of company
operatfons, revealing in the majority of
cases record earnings and profits, seem
to indicate that the employer could make
some sacrifice to stem inflation. Factory
workers are not fools, and, in most cases,
can make a very fair estimate of costs,
and see the huge margins obtained.
The supply-and-demand position in
some lines does not give much confidence
in increased production lowering prices.
Take, for instance, electrical, radio and
plastic goods. Shops are filled with all
kinds of items far in excess of require-
ments, yet there’s no sign of reduction
in price.—L. K. (N.S.W.).
“Bouquets”
I have noticed over many years that
The Bulletin rarely publishes any
“bouquets” which it must receive from
time to time. However, I cannot refrain
from congratulating it for its marvellous
work in connection with the last Federal
elections. I am certain that, to a very
large extent, the satisfactory results of
the elections can be attributed to The
Bulletin.
I must add how much I appreciate the
fact that The Bulletin uses inverted
commas when writing the word “Labor
In view of the very low state into which
real Labor halgallen the use of the word
by the present hotchpotch is not only a
misnomer but impudent audacity. O. C.
CTas.).
Permit me to offer my congratulations
on your page of verse of December 7,
1949; all the poems give pleasure —
genuine poetry, I particularly enjoyed
“Noon Has All Day,” “Painter of
Umbria” and “The Lonely Fire.”
The others, too, merit a third reading.
All have charm and a literary quality
promising so well for the future ; and this
in a golden country where “leading”
dailies give headlines on front pages to a
prizefighter, and a little insignificant place
to an exquisite piece of work by a
violinist.
I should like the young poets to whom
your page gives worthy place to know
how much pleasifte they give, probably to
thousands of other readers, —A. Howe
(N.S.W.).
Robbing Peter
Another piece of Labor-Socialist
legislation went by the board in the High
Court judgment on the validity of the
Commonwealth and State War Service
Land Settlement Acts of 1945 and 1946
respectively.
The Chief Justice, in his judgment,
pointed out that the legislation was an
attempt by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to circumvent the Constitution by
using State legislation to accomplish
something the Commonwealth itself could
not constitutionally do. The effect of
such legislation would have been to com-
mit an injustice, and therefore the Acts
were not valid. So fails yet another
attempt by Evatt to run a swifty over
the people in the name of a section.
The excuse in this case—the settling
of returned servicemen on the land—may
have appeared to have some merit, but
it must be remembered that the debt is
owed to its fighting men by the nation as
a whole, not just one section. The
Socialists attempted to make good
fellows of themselves at the expense of
owners of large holdings on terms pegging
compensation to 1942 valuations.
If current land values are too steep
for the ex-servicemen to meet, then it is
up to the nation to subsidise their settle-
ment. However, at the ruling high prices
for wheat, wool and other primary pro-
ducts, there can be little excuse for
clinging to 1942 values for any special
section of the community.
Some attention should now be directed
to the N. S. Wales State Government’s
Landlord and Tenant legislation, which,
for the purpose of controlling rents, pegs
the capital value of a property to August,
1939, unless it was not let at that date,
in which case the pegged date is March,
1945, or March, 1949, whichever is
appropriate. The iniquity of the 1939
pegged date should be obvious to any-
one. The capital value forms the basis
of the Fair Rent Board’s computation,
and the formula includes 5 p.c, on the
1.C.V., p.c. for depreciation, as much
for maintenance and repairs, together
with other outgoings such as rates, in-
surance, etc.
When it is considered that all of an
owner’s expenses must be met at 1949
levels the enormity of the injustice of
pegging capital values at a date now
more than 10 years old becomes apparent.
No wcfnder investors have given up
building houses. The whole business is
in line with this N.S.W. Government’s
policy of making one section of the com-
munity pay for the benefits it hands out
so lightheartedly to another. Cave
(N.S.W.).
Salvage
Traditions of the Navy, the merchant
navy and the sea in general make great
publicity, but in these days of enlighten-
ment I can’t help feeling many of the
old habits and laws of the sea are so
much punk. We laugh when some town
bobs up with an outdated law saying it is
an offence for citizens to ride emus in
the streets without a curbed-bit between
the hours of dawn and'dusk. Yet a ship
happens to strike engine trouble at sea
and needs a tow, and whether the ship
is in danger or not, whether it makes
difficult towing or easy, it immediately
becomes salvage!
The British motorship Lambrook’s
engines broke down 405 miles south of
Cape Borda on September 21, and the
master wirelessed that he needed a tow.
The Port Adelaide tug Foremost did the
job in eight days, and now the tug’s owners
have claimed £15,000, and the Seamen’s
Union, on behalf of master and crew,
£lO,OO0 —for salvage, mind. The Lam-
brook took only three days in port to
effect repairs. It would be a nice state
of affairs if garagemen claimed salvage
of a car every time a broken axle or
other trouble necessitated a tow. —•
Mozzer (S.A.).
Yampi Sound
{ The news that an American company
will take over a huge iron-ore deposit
at Yampi Sound (W.A.) again brings
that wild Kimberley coast into the lime-
light.
The wild bush aborigines have sat on
the coasthills of that rugged part for
centuries and watched the white sails of
the Malays, the Spanish, the Dutch, the
Portuguese and the English go by. The
first Englishman was William Dampier,
who sailed up for a thousand miles from
Sharks Bay, past Kimberley, and then
sailed away and wrote a book in which
he reported that it was the most barren
country in the world. He did not know
that he had sailed past some of the best
pastoral country in Australia —on the
Fitzroy River —and Yampi Sound, one of
the richest and largest iron-ore deposits
in the world.
Yampi Sound is about 90 miles due
north of the flat, muddy port of Derby
on the Kimberley coast. The rich iron-
ore deposits are in the form of two
islands. Cockatoo and Coolan in Yampi
Sound.
I think I was one of the first white
men to reach Yampi Sound from the
land side —Constable Phil O’Neil, of
Obagooma station, may have been there
before me. I was “poddy-dodging” in
that wild country between Obagooma
and Yampi Sound in 1904 and went out
on to the Sound, in sight of Cockatoo
and Coolan Islands, in 1905 with Con-
stables Fletcher and Walters, looking for
the tracks of wild aborigine “munjongs,”
murderers and cattle-killers.
The country on the mainland around
the Sound is a mass of tangled ranges,
which are really a spur of the Leopolds.
It is impossible to ride a horse over
much of it—you have to go “foot walk.”
It is long-grass country, with narrow flats
in between the hills. There are plenty
of game, hot springs, sly crocodiles in
the fresh-water creeks, cypress-pines on
the hills and vast beds of rock-oysters in
the salt water.
Yampi has enormous possibilities.
Engineers say that the cheap coal from
Collie, in the south-west, will do to smelt
the iron-ore into steel. I wonder if it
would bo possible to harness the rushing,
roaring tides, which rise and fall 39ft., to
produce power?
It needs flux in the form of limestone
to smelt iron-ore into steel. About 50
miles away from Yampi Sound there
rises up out of the “pindun” on the east
of Obagooma one of the largest lime-
stone ranges in Australia. It is about
150 miles long, 300 ft. high and about
three miles through.
Three large rivers, the Fitzroy, Leonard
and Barker, gorge through the limestone
range. The irrigation possibilities are
considerable; although the Yampi Sound
country is rough it is not barren ; station
gardens prove the soil to be most fertile.
—Michael Sawtell (N.S.W.).


Three on Russia.
Egyptian writing, is a simple and fascinat-
ing exposition, complete with the story
of the Rosetta Stone and instructions how
to cut a reed to make an Egyptian pen ;
and then we come to the Phoenicians, who
developed symbols, partly from Egyptian
hieratic writing, and maybe from the
writings of Crete;
What is really important is that they
dropped the picture-signs of the hiero-
glyphics altogether and retained only the
sound-symbols, the part which was true
alphabet.
Their alphabet, perfected 1000 b.c., is
the basis of Greek, Latin, Hebrew,
Arabic, Indian, Mongolian, Korean,
Tibetan, Javanese, Malayan—to name
only a few —writing.
The indefatigable Mr. Ogg continues
the pursuit of letters into Greek, with a
discussion of the effect upon them of the
stylus, and how they were cut in wax;
and so we come to our Roman capitals,
and an ingenious exposition, in word and
illustration, of how the beautiful shapes
of the Roman letters cut in stone were
evolved, firstly thinning and thickening
because the broad instrument which was
used to trace them was held always in the
same position, and never twisted to follow
the curve of a letter; and then broaden-
ing at the beginning and end of a letter
into serifs because of the difficulty of
making a straight cut in stone with a
chisel.
Next, with profuse illustrations in
black and red and red-and-black, we are
shown the development of Roman
capitals through uncials, half-uncials,
manuscript, Caroline, gothic, etc.; and
so come to printing, with explanations
of how the early printers made their
types, and some consideration of the
classical type-faces.
But how are we to reconcile the con-
flicting claims of Miss Dobson and Mr.
Ogg? Perhaps, after so much ingenious
explanation, she will allow him the first
letter, provided he cedes her the first—
and last—word.
To the farthest corners of the Soviet
power the Lie reigns supreme On the
asnes of a crumbled ideal and amidst a
named and betrayed people a swirl of
impenetrable lies blankets all access to
reality. Figures, communiques, admissions,
proclamations, indignation, praise, victories,
sabotage, constitutions, deaths, births—
everything is a travesty, a counterfeit, a
parody, an invention; everything is
changed, adulterated, puffed up, spoiled
and destroyed. And truth itself, met with
by chance through the network of
intrigue, appears somnambulistic, like a
thing m a dream, amidst a succession of
shams and distortions. One sixth of the
globe and a quarter of a century are barri-
caded behind the Lie.
So writes a French authoress, Suzanne
Labin, assisted by the industrious
Arthur Koestler, in Stalin’s Russia
(Gollancz). Her book is the most
completely documented indictment this
reviewer has yet come across, and it in-
cludes 15 closely-printed pages of biblio-
graphy used for reference.
Another recent book, more directly
appealing to Australian readers, is J. A.
Alexander’s account of his three years as
First Secretary at the Australian legation
in Moscow from 1944 to 1947, In the
Shadow (Herald and Weekly Times,
Melbourne). Alexander, one of the best-
known pre-war political press correspon-
dents at Canberra,, was with Maloney
during the latter half of that gentleman’s
diplomatic term in Moscow. He went
there full of enthusiasm for the exploits
of the Russian army and for an idealist
vision he had formed of the Great Un-
known. He had passed a third-year
course in Russian at Melbourne Uni-
versity to equip himself for a task under-
taken at least with complete confidence in
his own friendly approach and in
Emerson s axiom that “goodwill makes
intelligence.” He returned defeated, sick
and sorry, with, all his ideals, his theories,
his journalistic hunch that there must be
something to this gigantic political effort
in Russia—all completely wrecked.
In the facts he collected Alexander has
not much more to show us than had
Maloney. He was permitted only the
same limited exploration of the Russian
people’s way of life. He suffered the same
prohibitions against travel to see what
things were like outside the Moscow area.
Like Maloney, being thus baffled, he con-
centrated on the incredibly horrible living
conditions, food supplies and slavery of
the Russian masses, the absolute sub-
jection of the trade-unions (a caricature
of what Australians know as trade-unions)
to the will of the Soviet executive, and the
staggering impression left upon him of a
population so cowed by terrorism as to
be beyond visible hope of redemption.
Alexander quotes Vyshinsky as having
written that in Soviet Russia “the law is
merely the will of the dominant class,”
and that:
The task of justice in the Soviet Union
is to assure the precise unswerving fulfil-
ment of Soviet laws.... by destroying
without pity all foes of the people in
whatever form they manifest their criminal
encroachments on Socialism in our State.
... .Naturally there can be no place for
freedom of speech, the Press, and so on
for the foes of Socialism.
And how is the tyranny exercised?
Maintained? Alexander’s answer is very
simple:
Far more powerful than any form of
intimidation, even the secret police, is the
knowledge shared by all the people that
they are absolutely dependent upon the
Government—i.e., the Communist party—
for their daily bread. This is the first time
that control of a people through food
(rationing) has been achieved on such a
stupendous scale. The man who grows the
corn cannot dispose of it himself, may not
even eat of it at will.
Much less the mere city worker, or the
children, or the invalid and aged, whose
bread-ration cards are their very life. If
a man’s card be withdrawn, as for any
slightest offence it may be, there is no
means of getting black bread, let alone
anything else, except that of begging from
those who have not enough anyway and
would be similarly punished if they were
known to affront “the Law” by respond-
ing.
The reason why there are no strikes in
Russia —where what the Australian would
call the provocation to strike is present
every day in every industry—is that if
any man, or woman, refuses the work to
which he is put he loses his bread-ration.
And except on paper bread seems to be
for the masses the only assured article
of diet. The Communist executives, of
course, live like princes.
In Russia what are called trade-unions
are the mechanism of a Labor Front to
enforce the will of the Communist party
on the workers. Wages as well as working
norms (output units) are fixed by the
Government. The trade-unions have to
accept what the employer, the Soviet State,
cares to give them. They are simply the
servants of the Communist party. The
chairman of the All-Union Central Council
of Trade Unions himself defined the role
of Soviet trade-unions in the words of
Lenin (and therefore consecrated by now) —
“a driving belt or driving gear between
the party and the masses of the working
class.”
If the State decrees more work for less
pay and longer hours, the unions simply
see that those decrees are carried out. If
the manager of a Soviet industrial plant
does not crack the whip to the same
purpose “his position and perhaps his
liberty may be at stake,”
“The Information section of the Secret
Police,” writes Suzanne Labin, “has
turned a tenth of the population into in-
formers.” The greater number of them
are not paid.
An individual thought likely to be useful
is arrested and brought before one of the
officials of the secret police, who informs
him point-blank—“We want you to work
for us —or else . , In most cases the
“or else” is quite sufficient; in others the
normal Soviet practice of taking hostages
does the trick satisfactorily. The new
recruit is given a number and a secret
name. His job is to report everything he
hears and sees; the incidents which take
place around him, the chance remarks of
his fellows, anything likely to be of use
to his masters. He spies on his superiors,
his inferiors, his equals. If necessary he
serves as agent-provocateur. He must
regard himself as sufficiently paid by the
security he now enjoys and by various
minor favors in respect of housing accom-
modation, holidays, food, and so on
Here and there a passage proclaims that
the translator, Edward Fitzgerald, has
read his Macaulay:
Every year the power of the secret police
grows while remaining completely at the
personal disposal of Stalin. The Society
of Old Bolshevists no longer survives
Little by little Stalin carried out one of the
most extraordinary and horrible machina-
tion’s of history; one which permitted him
to humiliate all the surviving leaders of
the November Revolution in an endless
series of recantations, punctuated by
exclamations of adoration; to send them
to prison, and from prison to exile, and-
from exile back to his feet again; to extract
from them the confession of impossible
crimes; to make them crawl on their knees
whilst repeating dictated declarations; and
finally to drag them into the dock in a
sinister series of trials to inculpate them-
selves and then go to their deaths in one
final degradation of their own consciences
and a supreme hosannah of praise for their
assassin....
The resurrection of Pbaraohism which
we have followed step by step was not a
conquest, not an achievement, but merely
a heritage, a heritage usurped by intrigue,
defended by crime, and consecrated by
ignorance. Civilisation is nothing but a
thin varnish on the body of the ancient
slave. If vigilance relaxes for an instant
then barbarism floods over us again. Let
Stalin serve at least to drive that lesson
home.
On the eve of the late war the Russian
Communist party numbered 2\ million
active members and half a million candid-
ates. By 1945 the total had grown to
s million, about three per cent, of the
total population. The purges have been
almost an annual event since Stalin came
to power—during peace years at any rate.
In 1937-38 among those executed or dis-
appeared without trace (especially after
the assassination of Stalin’s favorite,
Kirov) were 38 presidents or Ministers
who had held high office ; also:
80 per cent, of party secretaries,
90 per cent, of foreign Communists resi-
dent in Moscow,
53 per cent, of presidents and 82 per
cent, of secretaries of labor unions,
Most of the governing collegium of the
G.P.U.,
70 out of 80 members of the Soviet War
Council,
58 per cent, of all Soviet generals,
42 per cent, of directors of mining and
engineering enterprises,
35 per cent, of higher employees in these
industries,
Most of the directors and managers of
the cotton industry,
Thousands of mere workers for strikes
and sabotage,
Tens of thousands of party members.
Adding to the purges the deaths from
famine in 1932-4 and those who perished
in the Siberian prison camps, Labin finds
that from 1928 to 1939 over 17 million
Russians perished from these causes—
-1.000. as victims of mass shootings,
8.000. from conditions in camps and
prisons, and 8,000,000 from famine. The
worst years under the Tsars did not show
more than 1000 executions annually.
John Gunther, Behind Europe’s Curtain
(Hamish Hamilton), agrees with Suzanne
Labin in describing the Soviet’s torture
process for extracting confessions from
accused persons. “They first explain you
guilt and then they ask confessions t
prove it. The methods to obtain confes
sions are mainly three ; physiological
hunger, thirst, and lack of sleep
physical—torture ; psychological—hint
that your family will be arrested an
tortured.” After three weeks of slow
starvation in a cell on a little bread and
water the prisoner in one case detailec
(he was a Bulgarian, and he survived
record it) was taken out for interrogation
It lasted from Saturday morning till the
following Thursday morning, without
break, 24 hours round the clock under re
liefs of questioners, the prisoner standing
all the time and refused sustenance
Upon collapse, he was removed to his cell
slept 12 hours, was then called up again
bound and gagged, thrown on the floor
and beaten on the feet for two hours with
a rubber whip, being questioned all the
time. They have also a drug which, given
in coffee, bucks a prisoner up for a
while and then produces acute depression
in reaction when he will agree to say any-
thing his torturers wish him to say.
Gunther writes not so much about
Russia as about a quick post-war tour
of the satellite countries. For the filling-
out of his survey he confesses he is in-
debted to dispatches from various friends
among American Press correspondents.
He relates of the inflation of the currency
in Hungary that in 1946 it had reached
1,600,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000
pengo to the £ sterling, that a street car-
fare cost 300,000 million pengo, and that
a workman’s wages for a month paid in
pengo represented about one penny in
English exchange. He says that more
people were killed in Warsaw during the
late war than the total dead of Great
Britain and the United States together,
and that post-war Poland (because of
the Soviet’s confidence in" the Poles’
hatred of the Germans) he found freer
of direct Soviet pressure than any other
State he visited. He did not at any time
in Poland see a portrait of Stalin!
Turkey is also exempt. Turkey is, in
fact, unique in having no Communist fifth-
column. “The main reason is Kemal and
the heritage he left. When Kemal caught
a Communist he had him shot. Even to-
day when minor secret spurts of
Communist activity are discovered the
Turks move hard and fast. Istanbul is
full of stories of bodies tied in sacks and
dumped forthwith into the Bosporus.”
F. M. C.
Mongolian Journey : Henning Haslund
(Routledge & Kegan Paul). Translated
from the Danish, this is a set of careful
observations built up, apparently, from
several sojourns in Mongolia; the
descriptions of the meal in the chief’s
camp at Manchu Ail, of the fire-
worshippers, and the rite of the Holy
Fire Maiden who leaps naked through
fire kindled in the snow, the wedding
feast of the Chahar people (where eight
women sit up all night with a newly
married pair, “four to protect the bride’s
rights, four the bridegroom’s”), the
nomad’s funeral, where the wife knocks a
hole in the head of the corpse to free his
soul before the body is taken out and
ceremoniously offered to the vultures, and
the account of a feast, with dancing-girls,
at an oasis in the desert, make the reader
feel he has been there himself. The book
is "thickly decorated with drawings by the
Mongol artist Lodai, “an artist of the
classical Central Asiatic School, a late
offshoot of the form of art which
Alexander the Great brought to Hindu-
stan” ; and there are 12 pages of photo-
graphs at the back, and a map of the
country.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 51
Across.
I—Roy Rene competes with such
entertainment. (6)
4—Common feature of these puzzles
to dig in the ribs in this part of
India. (6)
10— Add up a number of pigs in a
Middlesex town. (9)
11— Clifford, Arlington, Buckingham,
Ashley and Lauderdale. (5)
12— Traveller on the Ark pokes borak
at these resting-places. (8)
13 — This boring fellow makes the toe
red. (6)
15 — Pale leftist comes back to roan. (6)
16— Enumerate an aristocrat. (5)
19 —Tree like enclosure. (5)
21—Ancient city is to box with
thanks. (6)
25 The devil and the Spanish half-
dime. (6)
26 It has something to do with
building a stimulant for, say,
Sherlock Holmes. (8)
28— Happening to level the tea. (5)
29 Sweet part of a window during
the third month. (9)
30 — She-ass disturbed the waist-
bands. (6)
31 — Where Alexander overthrew
Darius. (6)
(cryptic type.)
Down.
1— Floor covering a muscle with
discoverers about 50 finishing off
a navigator. (7, 8)
2 Six give thanks to Meggs’s girl-
friend’s food properties. (8)
3 East affirmation with crude metal
is something unsightly. (7)
5 Relation has one that is all
dirty. (7)
6 Punched a patient sufferer on the
resting-place. (6)
7 I am good for nothing in a
balloon accompanied by mother’s
century and a goddess in an
Italian opera. (5, 2,8).
8— Agitate. (5)
9 Little devil. (3)
14 —Head turning the saucepan. (3)
17— Married on the way up with
some precipitation. (3)
18— Tan cruet (anagram). (8)
20 —“I’ll give my jewels for a set of
beads, my for a palmer’s
walking-staff” (“Richard II”). (7)
22 There’s always a batter against
this vessel. (7)
23 — The ship’s cbmpany in the ship
and their earnings what drives
the ship? (6)
24 — Why fruit first spent a day on
top of the world. (5)
27—Bird. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. SO.


: :
:
,
■
?
liiiislixii?® : M&
fMM k ' $
.* * .•■ .* <i* >
■
Memories cannot furnish
the funds for children’s schooling
How can you guarantee your child will reap the benefits
of greater educational facilities, if you should die?
Your wife could not give a mother’s care and earn a
living, too!
Memories cannot furnish the funds for children’s school-
ing. Remembrance cannot provide for the years to come.
You can guarantee their future right now with an A.C.A.
Educational Policy available to children of all ages from
birth upwards.
The safe, sound plan, possible even on modest earnings,
of saving a small amount each week assures your children
of receiving a sound education or the choosing of a pro-
fession, regardless of what may happen to you.
V
PLAN WHILE YOUNG
Assurance costs more every year you wait. A wise step
for wise parents is to take out an A.C.A. Educational
Policy now.
Act now —clip the coupon below and write in for your
free copy of “I’m the Big Reason’’ which explains in
detail the advantages of an A.C.A. Educational Policy.
A.C.A. POLICIES ARE GOOD POLICIES
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(. Incorporated in N.S.W.)
HEAD OFFICES:. A.C.A. Building, 66 King St., Sydney. ’Phone, 8X2165
MELBOURNE .. . A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 5706
BRISBANE A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen St., Brisbane. B 8529
ADELAIDE .... Bank of N.S.W. Chambers, 12 King William St., Adelaide.
Cent. 7889
PERTH Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth. B 6815
LISMORE 102 Molesworth St. Lismore 659
NEWCASTLE ... 69 Hunter St. Newcastle B 1121
TAMWORTH ... Royal Chambers, 377 Peel St. B 696
iiMnmiimiimmimimmimiimiiiiniiinimrPOST' THIS TO-DAY
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE CO. LTD.,
A.C.A. BUILDING, 66 King Street, Sydney.
A.C.A. POLICIES FOR EDUCATION
Without obligation, please send me complete information about
A.C.A. Educational Policies.
Name ...»
Business or Home Address
State
The assets of the A.C.A, total over £2,750,000, including Commonwealth Stocks, Freeholds,
Mortgages, Shares, Municipal Loans. Benefits: Claims exceed £2,050,000.
