

The Bulletin
'The Bulletin,” Vol. 71—No. 3677
Wednesday, August 2, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
BUCKINGHAM PALACE, LONDON HOME OF THE ROYAL FAMILY
IN the seventeenth century the site now occupied by Buckingham Palace was
a mulberry garden, planted by James I to encourage the native silk industry.
The house of the keeper of the gardens, after considerable alteration and
enlargement, eventually became Buckingham House, the property of John
Sheffield, Duke of Buckingham.
In 1762 the house was purchased by George 111, and sixty-three years
later it was altered by the famous architect Nash for George IV (1820-1830),
in whose reign the building became known as Buckingham Palace, although
neither he nor his successor, William IV, lived there. Queen Victoria was
the first Royal Sovereign to occupy the Palace, and it was here that Edward
VII was born in 1841.
The present dignified east facade, 360 feet long, shown in the accompanying
illustration, was the work of Sir Aston Webb, who designed dm 1913.
From the balcony outside the large central wndow successive K g
Queens have, on many historic occasions, acknowledged the loyalty a
shared the joy of their subjects. When Their Majesties are in residency the
forecourt of the Palace is the scene, every second day, of the Changing
the Guard-one of London’s many colorful ceremonies.
On tire western side of the Palace are the spacious lawns, the gardens
and the ornamental lake occupying an area of forty acres, and it is
that the Royal Garden Parties are held annually.
Among the many magnificent rooms within the Palace Js the impressive
Throne Room, in its setting of crystal and gold suriounded by a_ ma .
frieze representing the Wars of the Roses, and it is here that the State
Investitures are held.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


Learn
tory
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 250 AGE
The Red Page
THE NORTHERN TERRITORY.
In Australia’s Frontier Province (Angus
and Robertson) Mr. C. L. A. Abbott be-
comes the first Administrator of the
Northern Territory to write a book about
it. Most previous Administrators have
been too sick at heart on retirement to
make the attempt.
Dr. Gilruth, a veterinary professor,
held office first in the exalted rank,
previous ivice-regals of the “old bush-
whacker Government” of Mrs. fEneas
Gunn’s day having been satisfied with
the rank of “Resident.” Dr. Gilruth was
in office in the glorious anti hopeful
period when the Territory believed that
the Golden Age lay ahead —despite the
mysterious disappearance of the famous
Batchelor pumpkin, reputed to have cost
something like £BOOO to grow on the Gov-
ernment farm which was to revolutionise
N.T. agriculture.
Dr. Gilruth had a royal commission
tied round his neck, with the other mem-
bers of which he was at loggerheads.
During his reign Vesteys opened their
million-pound meatworks, which the
democrats of the northern unions suc-
ceeded in closing in short order. They
also intended to close Dr. Gilruth, but
he retired before action.
The democrats, however, saw his
temporary successor off to the tune of
the “Red Flag,” and the Government
sent up Colonel F. C. Urquhart, previ-
ously Commissioner of Police in Queens-
land, a relic of the old black police days,
founder of Urandangie and the first man
to take a wheeled vehicle over the Sel-
wyns. He and his explorer secretary,
Charles Price-Conigrave, were the only
pair who had looked the part in the long
history of Territory administration. They
both were a yard wide and about two
thick. And those who saw them in office
will find Mr. Abbott’s remembrances of
their adventures an understatement.
There were no glories about the Dar-
win Government in F. C. Urquhart’s
day. The union (Mr. Abbott does not
tell) sent a blackfellow to stand on the
drive at the new Administrator’s first
garden party and distribute leaflets to
prove to the guests that they were eating
the bread of tyranny. Mr. Abbott says
that the tough old Commissioner “created
a sensation when, within a week of his
arrival, he called at the post-office for his
mail with a shotgun lying affectionately
in the crook of his arm,” and that he
visited a union meeting called to discuss
this distasteful action “still carrying the
shotgun,” upon which “the meeting was
adjourned sine die.”
Actually the shotgun was a horrible-
looking Martini-Henry police carbine,
and the meeting which the Administrator
attended was one called to discuss the
question of his deportation, which was
never raised again.
It was also what Mr. Abbott calls Mr.
Urquhart’s firm and uncompromising
attitude which led to the temporary sus-
pension of the* jury system —local legend
says after a gentleman who had taken
careful aim at a foeman during a mov-
ing-picture show had been acquitted by
12 local men on the ground that he had
not killed the target he aimed at, the
sudden immolation of the Chinaman in
the next seat being merely an accident.
Mr. Abbott succeeded to a more ad-
vanced regime. His term began in 1937,
following the appointment of the Payne
Commission, which made the only useful
report on the Territory so far produced.
His administration covered a period
when the old roughness had worn off
Territory life and when it could have
offered him little excitement until the
outbreak of war.
Where, in the Urquhart regime, there
was only one motor-car at the disposal
of the Government, and that locked up
in a shed, and no roads to speak of, with
packhorse-mails still in operation, Mr.
Abbott’s reign belonged to a different
world. The Residency became “Govern-
ment House” and even acquired a coat of
paint. The Administrator was able for
part of his period to sweep over the long
roads into the interior in Government
cars. The civil service grew in numbers
from a handful to a large battalion.
And the only thing which drifted back-
wards was commercial life, shipping
companies fighting shy of Darwin for
various reasons, the Royal Dutch Line
and B.Ps. in turn abandoning it to its
wharfies and leaving no vessels to be
pillaged at present save Government
ships, which seem often to be unloaded
only when it is necessary to take com-
mercial cargo out in order to get at the
beer on the bottom of the holds-—which
is where sensible importers always put it.
The real ruler of the N.T. is, and has
been for a long time, not the Administra-
tor or the Federal Government, but the
heads of the North Australian Workers’
Union, a succession of Communists sent
up from the south in recent years, whose
operations (Mr. Abbott reports) Senator
Ashley recently remarked had caused a
loss of £187,000 on five Government-
chartered ships bringing supplies.
Mr. Abbott’s story mainly concerns the
war period, and his versions of its his-
tory in the days of 1941-43 help to com-
plete the pictures of the main incidents
of that time and especially of the great
Japanese raid about which there are
several other sometimes conflicting ver-
sions.
He, however, has a great deal to say
about the nature and future of the N.T.,
most of which already has been published
in signed articles which have appeared in
various newspapers, including The
Bulletin.
The first ingredient in his recipe for
making a success of the Territory com-
prises a plan under which “it must be
freed from the countless entanglements
of multi-control that throttle it at present,”
“get away from the Canberra-control
system” and have “unified control
within the Territory.” The Administra-
tor, he believes, should have “far-reaching
powers” and, though nominally respons-
ible to a Minister, “be handed the full
policy and be allowed an absolutely free
hand to work it out to a successful
finish.”
The Administrator, also, he thinks,
should be “paid according to his ability,
and this should be very high.”. Secondly,
he calls for the “thrashing-out of a
settled policy in conjunction with the
States of Queensland and W.A.” It
should deal with development and with
population and “particularly the aspect
of defence.” He says that the pastoral
industry and mining are the ones that
count, and he believes that if the Gov-
ernment would only agree to a policy of
developmental leases with consequent
improvements “the land would be auto-
matically so improved that it would carry
sheep without danger.” With reasonable
tenures (he declares) there “would be sub-
divisions for management purposes, im-
proved homesteads and more of them
.... communication between holdings and
small townships which will replace the
few lonely stores scattered throughout the
country.”
Whatever else may be said of his story,
it shows Mr. Abbott to be an optimist.
Anybody who contemplates the industrial
realities of the N.T. as they exist and still
has strong hope must be. The view is
about as depressing as anything this side
of Byelo-Russia, what with the breaking-
up of the expensive roads, the failure of
many settlers to survive on what would
be pastoral kingdoms in other parts of
the country and the struggle of the
average man against the burdens of taxa-
tion, high cost of living, educational
charges and freights, apart from the
tyranny of the unions and the inter-
ferences of enough Government agencies
to sink the whole place by their own
weight.
The chief product of the N.T. during
the past few years has been new civil
servants. The main business, the cattle
industry, which Mr. Abbott calls “the
sheet-anchor of the Territory,” is
temporarily in a boom only because its
graziers are exempted from income tax,
though their employees are not. If that
boom ends with the imposition of tax,
perhaps in 1952, it will need the backing
of men of Mr. Abbott’s faith and view-
point to prevent it sinking into ruin.
Lady Louisa .
It is quite clear from Brian Fitz Gerald’s
Lady Louisa Conolly (Staples) that one
should have been born a duke,, in the
eighteenth century. Anything less or later
than that is a mistake.
Lady Louisa lived in Castletown, the
largest house in Ireland. It had 365
windows, and the Gallery, which was
Louisa’s favorite room, was so large that,
as she said herself;
There are such variety of occupations
in it that one cannot be formal. Lord
Harcourt was writing, some of us played
at whist, others at billiards, Mrs. Gardiner
at the harpsichord, others at work, others
at chess, others reading, and supper at
one end; all this without interruption to
the different occupations.
True, Lady Louisa saw trouble enough
in her huge rooms or outside her 365
windows. She was at the bedside of her
nephew, Lord Edward Fitz Gerald, leader
of the rebels of 1798, when he was dying
in prison in Dublin from wounds re-
ceived in his arrest. There were 15,000
people killed in that rebellion, and, with
Castletown fortified for a siege, houses
burning all round her, companies of
rebels marching across her lawns, and
friends and relatives in both camps, she
had an anxious enough time of it.
And true, even when you live in the
largest house in Ireland, you cannot
escape from domestic affliction and
scandal. Running half comically and
half tragically through Brian Fitz-
Gerald’s biography is the story of Lady
Louisa’s beloved sister Sarah, who began
her career by nearly marrying, at 16, the
King himself —George 111, then loyally
described as a handsome young man but,
even at 22, flushed of'face, puffy in the
lips, bulging of eye, stuttery of speech
and sadly lacking in chin. Escaping that
high destiny, Sarah married a Sir Charles
Bunbury, ran away from him to live with
Lord William Gordon and got into such
a scandal that she had to quit society and
live in retirement and repentance for
years . . . after which she married again
and lived happily ever after.
True again, however tranquilly Louisa
may have lived with her amiable,
blundering, well-meaning husband who
never knew quite where he stood in
politics and whom, in the early days of
their marriage, she nicknamed “Flea,”
her friends and relatives were a wild lot.
There was her brother Charles, Earl of
March, who, while a schoolboy, set his
classical master’s wig on fire and, at 15,
spent his nights at Vauxhall drinking and
making love to the ladies of the town.
There was old Mr. Fox, afterwards Lord
Holland, making a fortune from pecula-
tion and bringing up his boys utterly
without control—once he promised young
Charles Fox that he should see a wall
dynamited at Holland House and, having
forgotten the promise and allowed the
job to be done while Charles was at
school, felt obliged to have the wall built
up again so that Charles could see it de-
stroyed when he came home for the
holidays.
There was the mad-headed Fighting
Fitz Gerald, Louisa’s brother-in-law, who
fought more than 30 duels, shut his
father up in a cave with a muzzled bear
and eventually, when somebody else was
chosen for the post of Colonel of the
Mayo Volunteers which he coveted,
murdered the man and was hanged. And
there was the Scottish tutor Mr. Ogilvie
who, if a quiet man by temperament,
caused a first-class sensation when he
married Louisa’s -sister Emily, Duchess of
Leinster, and considerable surprise, at
least, when he got himself gored by an
elk in the grounds of the Duke of Rich-
mond.
AH these things may, perhaps, be held
a consolation for having been born in the
wrong century: one is not, at any rate,
likely to be gored, in Sydney in the winter
of 1950, by anything more ferocious than
a maddened umbrella. But there are
many umbrellas ; and gas-rationing ; and
as for a great house of silvery limestone,
with 365 windows looking out over the
multitude of retainers to the garden of
roses and jonquils and lilies-of-the-vailey,
and the woods and pastures where the
Liffey flows, and the soft blue mountains
beyond . . all that great glory, as Yeats
said, reflecting something of it in the
polished mirror of his verse, is “spent.”
But one can, at least, go window-
shopping in Mr. Fitz Gerald’s biography:
which, faithfully preserving the period,
is graceful, elegant, bloodthirsty’
humorous, realistic and fantastic all at
once. It is a history of Ireland at its
most turbulent period; a history of
Georgian England; and the biography
of a charming and sympathetic woman ;
and in each of these aspects it is excellent.
Mr. Fitz Gerald edited The Correspond-
ence of Emily, Duchess of Leinster for
the Irish National Library, and the present
biography is a kind of brilliant offshoot.
A Boy Everyone Knew .
For lack of assurance we may well
doubt whether Nathaniel, by Shaw Des-
mond (Hutchinson), is an exact record of
his own youth ; but there can be no doubt
that in this story of an Irish boy who
was sent to London in the 1890’s to seek
his fortune, beginning as an office-boy at
10 shillings a week, a great many readers
will see a great deal of their own youth.
We are taken the round of Nathaniel’s
duties for his bull-necked company pro-
moter, and given a picture of the London
financial jungle of that day from the
office-boy’s point of view; his frugal
meals in the A.B.C. cafes, his keyhole
views of directors and promoters shovel-
ling in lobster at lunch-bars.
We see the lad, in the midst of surpris-
ing adventures with his boss’s leigning
mistress, trying to act and think as his
good mother had taught him; being
caught into Salvation Army and other
religious movements, and trying to apply
their teaching, even to getting up courage
to warn his boss against his way of life;
the drinking, the cigars, the Other
Women. We aee him buying physical
culture in easy lessons, writing long and
earnest letters to Sandow , . .
Shaw Desmond’s achievement has been
to keep the lad in focus; we have seen
him done before, with an energy and
acumen pumped into him that he did
not have, or a robust interest in girls
which did not come until much later;
here we see him as he was, lonely, living
in a dreadful boarding-house, perplexed,
trying on poses and ideas like clothes-
off-the-peg, just enough to sat, just
enough to wear, his days, outside the
office, and especially his weekends, lost
in the grey vacuum of empty streets.
It is the same with his father, who
had left a perfectly good prison-governor-
ship in Ireland to retire to a London
suburb as a successful investor; whose
money went down the drain, and who
went on down to his death in shabbier
and shabbier gentility ; the father who, as
prison-governor, used to “let out the
bhoys for the night, to go home and slape
wid their wives,” and once, at a surprise
visit by a jail inspector, impressed half
the town to take the place of the absent
prisoners.
Not oversentimentalised or overclever,
often with quiet humor (“My Irish father
and my English mother lived in a little
South of Ireland town —the former
happily, the latter protestant....”), it is
the story our British lower-middle-class
fathers might have told us of their youth
if, as Desmond points out, they were not
so shy with their sons ; and it is the story
we might tell our sons, but probably will
not, for the same reason.
Novels of Violence .
James Gould Cozzens’s Guard of
Honor (Longmans), while it is as
American and modern as coca-cola, re-
minds this reviewer irresistibly of Arnold
Zweig’s The Case of Sergeant Grischa;
which, in his respectful opinion, was the
finest novel produced by the war of 1914-
18 ; and which, quite clearly, derives from
Tolstoy.
In • a sense —in his philosophical-
mystical aspects—Charles Morgan in
The River Line (Macmillan) may derive
from Tolstoy, too. He also owes a debt
to the French. But The River Line re-
minds one, most of all, of Charles
Morgan. And Mr. Morgan is not every-
body’s cup of tea. To those who admire
The Fountain, Morgan fills a special
place in contemporary English literature:
an artist who can create a philosophic
{“Red Page” continued on page 35.)
A COW IN A SONNET.
1 hey re just spilt milk to her, these frozen shadows
The morning trees let fall on the cropped green;
And calves don t come that size. To chew oyer the scene
Is enough, then stump uphill in ladies' shoes
Thinking yourself no more fortunate than other cows:
With a twodegged fool on a three-legged stool between
Your knees, and a butting hustling calf to wean.
The girls in trouble, and your man too free at the shows.
Little wonder she’s sour, that she plants her foot in the pail,
Or stands stock-still for hours like a thing of clay
Among the frozen shadows. But when frosts are over
Sometimes she will swing her head and flag her tail
And buck with udders flying through the astonished day
(O hills leap up!) shaken by life’s quick fever.
A.C.T,
DAVID CAMPBELL.


i
mm
i
i :
V '"4
Above inset is a side view of
the Hutton thick crepe sole
Packard Mogger Slip-on Casual. Soft
tan calf uppers, leather soles. Sizes
5 to 12. Price, 47/-.
There is no better shoe for casual sports wear than
Packard Moccasin with
derby fronts and wall toes
for either walking or golf. Tan or
Brown calf uppers, leather
or rubber soles. Sizes 5 to 12.
Priced at 61/6.
am
m
m
Picture i
Hutton "Playboys” with thick Crepe Soles
n above left hand corner is of a pair of famous Hutton Playboys.
These ultra smart Casual Shoes are just the thing for
your leisure hours. The soles offer you the only platform
type extra heavy natural plantation rubber soles. Uppers
of Rich Tan Corse Calf or Rust Suede. Sizes sto 11|, £5/19/-.
( SQJBPJOB
ONISUH3AQY NIWHinHJ...
Also a wide selection of the famous
Packard
line for practically every occasion.
r
T*
Packard Brogue with extra stout leather soles,
wide welts and sewn heel seats, in Tan Calf or
Black Box Calf, or Rust Suede. Sizes 5 to 14. 66/6.
Packard No-cap Derby, uppers of Tan Calf or
Black Box Calf, or Rust Brown Suede. Leather
soles, heels; Tan elk with rubber soles. 5-14. 55/6.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ MEN’S SHOE DEPARTMENT —GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE ST. ’PHONE M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE
HALLMARK
Af
Ul;
am
i. '
'
* >
il
M
i* I Wmi wmm ?mmm iP s •
, . ■ ; ■ r
'■' ■■ ' X>: . '•>, ~•> . y\W*
i’ i sf ' V\-
: • '?' ' %- * -i* *:
•
;•■ \ .y\ V>; ■ ■•>■ ;. . x.‘ .
' '''V ' ' Ax ' s 2cV " '•••.' V*, '* *' 5 .-.■■<■ | " : *
■?. x x ./•’ % > w 'v /*' '■> *•■
■ V*. .
X;
• •>:•"' •>: v.
»'<. :
.< ;
X r x y
\y. ' ■%••.
• v 'i. x.< >X* . 'x-9. \
'. .; -
-yX* * .. > % %
VPpßßHifiPpp*
.. * ■
i, '*•' < '*
,* V-
v*V 1
•Si-; , -. %'•:&$&&>&<•
>Vv‘ ■
■' . 'X... . •
4 ’••■■■
■'v _ *,
%
•y '*>. y •
% F F
S, 4 ■ y '{>
XvX: ,*.X :>&
• - :.<x ••• :v^..-
“ y "X
»?
:r^V 5
. ■ .
V ,
> p
'>> -V'" >
\ kv s
ilii
XirJ
y.-
% '%:■
(Made.
y % K :v
y ' y V. -y. ;v\
. y. > >• ' \ •-*
, > ,‘' \ >
L \ »<
.. •••v ■'■>■:
r *
!SS*.v <f
\■; , V \y ".'■"<: ' v \\ %:
t: <
yi *
, y-Vy/
y - <4
:» ,Jk W
x. . -4
y y
if
I** *
v
Lt ii Abbotsfdrdl Ns. Victoria, Australia.


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3677
Wednesday, August 2, 1950
PUSH-BUTTON WARFARE.
“Yes? Well, just throw in another 40,000 North Koreans.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K- Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
A FORCE FOR PEACE.
Whether there are statesmen in the
Empire Parliaments or only party poli-
ticians should shortly be evident under the
test of the times. This country, along
with all other English-speaking peoples,
and the European civilisation of which
we are a part, are under deadly challenge
from the “Communist sixth of the world.”
The issue is whether our civilisation is
fit to survive.
Fit is the word. We shall not survive
by invoking U.N.O. or by wailing about
pur ideals and the need for peace. The
threat against peace, originally economic
and political, has by natural development
become military.
The economic threat was, generally
speaking, underestimated in the British
democracies (mainly Socialist). They had
persuaded themselves that it would recede
with the return of prosperity. Prepara-
tion for war was ruled out. The British
peoples hailed the millennium after World
War II with “freedom from want and
fear,” “full employment” and “social
security,” and the politicians in power
played down to this sentiment. In Aus-
tralia there was a loose idea that, having
by great exertions contributed to victory
in two world wars, we had deserved the
benefits of a “golden age” of lasting
peace. U.N.O. was ready to assure peace
through the pledges of the chief Powers
—including one of them committed to
unrelenting war —that they would forsake
and forbid future wars of aggression.
The Soviet Government has observed
no allegiance whatever to these pledges,
and abroad its agents, the Communist
parties, co-operated heartily in the Soviet’s
“cold war.” The threat was as visible
in Australia as elsewhere, but in the
Parliaments of the Commonwealth and
the chief industrial State, “Labor” Gov-
ernments ignored it. “Labor” aimed to
attach the votes of the mob by reducing
hours of work, condoning a shameful
limitation of output in basic materials,
and refusing to believe that strikes
originated in deliberate sabotage of in-
dustry by the Communists. The Soviet’s
cold- war has, in truth, been waged
partly to test the fibre of the post-war
democracies. These have wanted
money to spend on “good times,” not on
soldiering. America held the armaments
ace in the atom-bomb (they told them-
selves), and for further comfort there was
that terribly misnamed creature, the
United Nations.
Over the whole English-speaking world
a general disposition to believe that the
alleged universal desire for peace must
of its sheer magnitude overwhelm any
Power contemplating war has been
proved hollow. Soviet Russia has been
making as plain as daylight for the past
five years that international peace, except
on its own tehns, has no part whatever
in its policy or intentions.
We are witnessing the first hasty moves
to cover past neglect in Britain and Aus-
tralia as well as U.S.A. The division of
the supposed One World of U.N.O. into
two armed camps raises other questions,
rendered more difficult because of delay
in peace settlements—whether the West
German State should be allowed to re-
arm and contribute troops for the Western
Union forces and the defence of their
own land, and whether the Japanese
should be enlisted in (say) the American
Army to help reconquer Korea. What-
ever is done about these knotty problems
the lesson of the Korean War stares the
English-speaking peoples in the face. It
is to them that the responsibility has been
left to execute U.N.O.’s military sanctions
against an aggressor.
The event has revived the idea, of which
the first germ appeared in the days of
Canning and the formulation of the
Monroe Doctrine, that the only reliable
international organisation for maintain-
ing world peace would be one of the
English-speaking peoples. The late Walter
Page, American Ambassador in London
during the First World War, wrote to his
President’s adviser, Colonel House, in
November, 1915 (when the German Ü-
boat campaign first alarmed America):
Whatever the future may bring if only
it be generally understood beforehand that
our fleet and the British fleet shoot the
same language, there’ll be no fight thrust
upon us.
Here, therefore, is a peace programme
for you—the only basis for permanent peace
in the world. There is no further good in
having venerable children building houses
of sand at the Hague; there’s no further
good in peace organisations or protective
leagues to enforce peace. We had as well
get down to facts. So far as ensuring peace
is concerned the biggest fact in the world
is the British Fleet. The next-biggest fact
is the American Fleet, because of itself and
still more because of the vast reserve power
of the United States which it implies.
If these two fleets perfectly understand one
another about the undesirability of wars of
aggression there’ll be no more big wars
while this understanding continues....
The British are necessary to us, and we
to them. When we see [the U.S.A. was
then still neutral] that the world will be
saved by such an artificial combination as
England and Russia and France and Japan
and Serbia, it calls for no great wisdom to
see the natural way whereby it must be
saved in future.
Walter Page’s ghost must have been
latterly attending the meetings of British
and American service chiefs and political
counsellors. Some of these meetings
have included representatives of other
Governments in the Western Union.
Schemes are reported to have been formu-
lated for joint defensive action in Europe
—America to provide heavy naval vessels
and heavy bombing air-forces; Britain
to provide submarines and anti-submarine
fleets and the main fighter air-force;
France and other Continental States to
furnish the military front with Anglo-
American reinforcements.
It is the Empire’s effort in co-ordina-
tion with America that chiefly interests
Australia. What the .Empire’s own mili-
tary discussions have produced is so far
secret. But for the sake of enlisting the
necessary public support some authorita-
tive statement should be issued soon. The
Australian Government’s move to restore
the principle of compulsory military
training—“at an early date,” says Mr.
Fadden —has been followed by the deci-
sion to offer a military force for service
in Korea, for which New Zealand simul-
taneously has offered artillery. Mr.
Menzies’s discussions in London and
Washington will yield their greatest value
if they have forwarded a general agree-
ment for full —selective but full —pre-
paration to meet any extension of the
war,
Australia’s possible potential in (say)
ground divisions having been agreed, we
should build up to that objective without
further loss of time. It would seem to
require initially a call on all available* fit
ex-servicemen to aid in starting the pro-
cess in the combatant ranks or as instruc-
tors. There will be no war-free
areas next time, and Australian industrial
operatives, employers and employees
alike, cannot too soon or too seriously
face up to what fighting for our lives
may mean. But it need not come to
that if the “free” peoples were prepared,
as well as willing, for prompt action to
prevent aggression.
For this, as Ambassador Page said 35
years ago, the British and American
peoples are absolutely necessary to each
other.
Calwell for the Party.
In the grave situation developing in
Europe and East Asia, Australia will need
to be a united nation, firmly behind its
Government.
On the general issue of a course of
action in Korea it certainly is a united
nation except for fifth-column and
political elements which are now doing
their best to disrupt it. These consist on
one part of the Communist party, which
is an admitted section of the enemy
organisation, and which has made it ''clear
that if a Red Army were to invade Aus-
tralia “in pursuit of aggressors”— i.e., of
anybody who happens to be fighting
Russia or Communism —it would aid the
invaders. Disrupters also include, as has
become obvious in the past few days, the
Australian Labor party, the membership
of which embodies several big unions
which are led by members of the central
committee of the Communist party.
The attitude of the leaders of this
“Labor” party during the past few days
shows where they stand and what their
objectives are. They are the same objec-
tives as always: to divide the country by
a “class-war” and to use every situation
to drive out of office any Government
which is not a “Labor” Government,
irrespective of whether it has the con-
fidence of the country or not. During
the last war, with the help of a howling
flapper Press, which sought to determine
the country’s policies and manage the
war for its commanders, and in alliance
with the Communist party, with which it
acted in the closest unity of purpose, it
succeeded.
Already this week, before the Ministry
could possibly have had time to review
its resources and consult with the United
Kingdom and other Dominions, as it was
bound to do under agreements actually
made by “Labor” itself while in office
in 1946, the old allies were at work, ine
most raucous sections of the flapper
Press were roaring for a division to be
sent to Korea at once, they apparently
not having the slightest idea of what a
division represents or of how long it
would take to create one. And, contem-
poraneously, Dr. Evatt and Mr. Calwell
were calling for aid to U.N.O,
Two days before the concerted an-
nouncements of the British Common-
wealth nations that they would send
troops, Mr. Calwell stated that the
Australian Government had, despite the
unanimous approval of both Houses of
Parliament for the support of U.N.0.,
“equally unanimously rejected a request
from U.N.O. for certain forms of
assistance which the Americans needed
in South Korea.” And upon this he
built a story of untruth and innuendo
that could serve no purpose other than to
produce a false and damaging impression
that his political opponents in office “seem
to take more than a little pleasure in the
difficulty in which America finds herself
in Korea,” while at the same time he
accused Britain, which is also to send
troops and which had a substantial naval
squadron involved in Korean waters, of
wanting to stage “another Munich.”
Australia, he says, is “concerned only
with the defence of the Pacific”: she
“cannot ever again give any assistance
to any European country, and she should
never again be asked to give any for the
defence of Europe.” This in spite of the
fact that his party is even now noisily
demanding that European U.N.O, nations
should defend Korea. And he believes
that “our hope of continuing part of the
British Commonwealth of Nations in the
Pacific” lies in our readiness and willing-
ness to recognise that we are “within
the orbit of American influence.”
All this from the same Mr. Calwell
who supported the Brisbane Line lie,
the same Mr. Calwell who (until
recently) has been found brigaded
with Mr. Eddie Ward since bis entry
into Parliament, the same Mr. Calwell
who a year ago was proclaiming that there
was “no neutrality” in “Labor’s” fight
with the local Communists, and that “we
will use the Army on them and the Navy
and Air Force on them” and “beat them
into the ground” and “intern the lot.”
He is also the same Mr. Calwell who has
since said, as he said before, that Com-
munism cannot be destroyed by legal
suppression, and that the only way to
defeat the Communists is to abolish capi-
talism —in other words, to achieve the
Communists’ basic objective, socialisa-
tion, which happens to be the same as
that to which the leaders of “Labor,”
including Mr, Chifley, have now nakedly
and openly committed it after years of
shuffling.
He is also the Mr. Calwell who was a
member of the Chifley Government
when his Prime Minister announced on
September 8, 1947, that “he had received
a message from the Indonesian Premier
asking Australia to act as the nominee of
the Indonesian Republic on the com-
mittee of three set up by the Security
Council.”
Mr. Calwell was not heard objecting
to the acceptance of this invitation, and
he had not previously protested against
the action of the Australian Communist
unions in holding up shipping to hamper
the Dutch in Indonesia in the interests of
the Indonesian rebels. But a few weeks
ago he jeered at Mr. Spender for having
shaken the hand of Soekarno, bolstering
his abuse of the Minister with quotations
from Indonesian broadcasts made dur-
ing the Japanese occupation of Java and
monitored by his own Information De-
partment in 1944-45. These showed
clearly that the present Indonesian regime
had been, during Mr. Calwell’s own
period of Ministership, a Japanese col-
laborator group of the most treacherous
description.
Mr. Calwell’s party, apparently, en-
dorses the abusive twistings and turnings
of Mr. Calwell, the same as it has
accepted those of Mr. Ward.
The fact that caucus actually promoted
both Mr, Ward and Mr. Calwell shows
what sort of a party so-called “Labor”
has become —if proof were necessary after
its choice of Mr. Holloway as Acting-
Prime Minister and a Privy Councillor on
the heels of his assertion that he could
“show that every aim of the Communist
movement throughout the world is based
on the teachings of Christ.”
Its long association with Communist
leaders, its continual drawing t>n Com-
munist-party “old boys” such as Garden
and others to provide it with officials,
have saddled it, perhaps inadver-
tently, with a Communist technique,
a feature of which is to change the
party line or vary it brazenly to suit the
audience, irrespective of principle, when-
ever a change of the existing line will
be of political advantage.
Messrs. Ward and Calwell are not the
only offenders. Mr. Chifley, at the
moment, is also giving a miserable
example of the new method. Himself a
man who degraded Parliament to the
point at which it became a mere regis-
tration bureau for the decisions of out-
side juntas sitting behind closed doors,
and who shut it down on the
eve of his decision to take military
action on the coalfields last year,
he is now clamoring for Parliament to
decide what help shall be given in Korea.
And at the same time he is proposing to
call the Federal executive of the A.L.P.
to decide, outside Parliament, what his
stand shall be, just as the “Labor” Federal
conference determined at his specific re-
quest after the last war what Australia’s
defence plans should consist of.
The Unfair Petrol Tax.
On the word of the Commonwealth
Minister for Fuel (Senator McLeay) the
quantity of petrol sold in Australia from
December, 1949, to last April was 198
million gallons. That represents, at
a gallon, petrol tax amounting to
£8,662,200. For the same period a year
earlier, gallonage was 173 million, and
the tax would be £7,568,750.
Two years ago the Chifley Government
was asked by the N.R.M.A., backed by
other motorist organisations, for reduced
petrol tax. It was pointed out that since it
began in 1926 the tax had got in (up to
June, 1948) about £164 million, but that
only about £57 million had gone to the
States for roads, the rest into Common-
wealth consolidated revenue. Whereupon
Mr. Chifley coldly told the N.R.M.A.:
“As far as the .Commonwealth is con-
cerned, this tax is primarily a revenue
impost, and its maintenance is necessary
to meet the expenditure of the Common-
wealth.”
It was here stated (B. 28/7/’4B)
that the Commonwealth action was
“legalised fraud,” because the tax was
introduced in 1926 at 3d. a gallon for
the sole purpose of maintaining and
building roads, was made 7d. a gallon
in 1930 by the addition of 4d. unem-
ployed-relief levy, was made Is. in 1940
by the addition of sd. war levy, and was
reduced to in 1947, when Canberra
reluctantly admitted that the war was
over. Later, Mr. Chifley told the Premiers
that if they wanted more money for roads
they could increase motor taxation.
Premier McGirr promptly acted on the
hint; Premiers Blayford and Hollway
said they would not increase motor taxa-
tion in order to allow the Commonwealth
to escape its responsibilities.
One of the first questions asked Mr.
Fadden when he became Commonwealth
Treasurer in December last, after having
had a lot to say about excessive “Labor”
taxation, was on petrol-tax reduction and
allocation of more of the money for
roads. He made mention of a grand
£250 million national development
scheme, to include roads, which petrol
tax would help to finance.
More recently it fell to Mr. Anthony,
P.M.G., to tell the N.S.W. Shires Con-
ference’ some more about it. Part of his
statement:
Although at one period the amount made
available by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to the States for roads purposes was
equal to the full proceeds of petrol taxa-
tion —then levied at a very low rate —addi-
tional taxation has for many years been '
imposed on petrol for general revenue
purposes. This policy was followed by
several Governments which preceded the
present Government. It has been supported
on the grounds that, since by far the greater
part of petrol is used by commercial and
industrial users who pass the tax on to the
public in costs of transportation, it is only
fair that some part of the tax proceeds
should be used for general community
services, as happens when it is passed to
general revenue.
“Additional taxation” was imposed for
unemployment-relief and war costs, not
“general revenue purposes” ; there has
not been unemployment for ten years,
and that particular war ended in 1945.
Because a bad policy was “followed by
several previous Governments” is no
excuse for its continuance by any
Government. And hundreds of thou-
sands of private motorists cannot “P aS j
the tax on”—they are specially singled
out to provide revenue “for general com-
munity services,” and arp thus the victims
of sectional taxation.
As for the commercial vehicle, it 18
true enough that its operator can P asS
the tax on, and does, but what the Gn y '
eminent should do, since it is committed
to a policy of reducing costs of produc-
tion and living wherever possible, is to find
out what-effect a reduction of petrol tax
would have on these costs. Does Can-
berra know that in N.S.W., at least, a
diesel-fuel vehicle is taxed double that or
a petrol vehicle, apparently because the
State authorities know that it pays a very
small fuel tax, and can therefore be
operated much more cheaply?.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Russia and U.N.O.
Having refused to have anything to do
with the Security Council of the United
Nations while anybody else was chair-
man, while Communist China was
not admitted to the debates and the North
Koreans not sympathetically heard, the
Kremlin suddenly decided to be present
in the month in whfbh it holds the chair-
manship by rotation, and in which it is
able to control the agenda.
This document is usually issued three
days before the meeting of the Council,
but Mr. Jacob Malik, who was to hold
the chair, decided to avoid this formality
so that the representatives of the Western
nations would come to the meeting in
the dark.
The weekend was full of conjecture
about what Stalin’s objective in returning
to the Council was, though opinion was
unanimous that he was up to no good.
By the time this is published the matter
may be settled, though Russian ways are
so Oriental and tortuous that the obvious
does not always represent the truth about
motives and ultimate intentions. It can
be forecast with safety that his object
is to serve exclusively the cause of world
revolution, which, in turn, is the basic
machinery for Russian world conquest.
Whatever his momentary plan, how-
ever, his return adds fuel to the belief
that U.N.O. is finished. It is going the
way of the League of Nations, whose
course was finally run as soon as the
Russians succeeded in entering it pro-
claiming that “peace was indivisible” while
seeking to split the League to bits.
The very difference which exists over
Communist China, some individual
nations recognising it diplomatically and
some not, while U.N.O. as a whole re-
fuses —and must refuse—to have anything
to do with it, is enough to render
U.N.O. useless ; but the fact that it is
so constituted that a deadly enemy with
fifth-columns all over the world can
ignore its decisions at will, obstruct its
plans, launch aggressive war against its
wards and then return armed with a veto
to control its proceedings and learn its
secrets, while continuing to support war
on its members, is sufficient to warrant
its instant liquidation as a dangerous
excrescence.
It has been said that if the Security
Council finds itself in difficulty with the
Russian veto it can call together the
General Assembly, in which there is no
veto. The Assembly should be called
together in any case urgently, and when
it meets there is only one resolution which
it can usefully pass: “That this United
Nations is hereby dissolved.”
This would leave the civilised nations
of the West to face the threat of Com-
munism in a clear atmosphere and with-
out a horde of small countries, many of
them of doubtful honesty of purpose and
of even more doubtful democratic intent,
hanging round their necks and hampering
their movements. And it would align the
world into its proper camps.
Getting Business Abroad.
When the president of the Australian
Exporters’ Federation announced that
there had been an “alarming slump in
the export of manufactured goods from
Australia,” Commerce Minister McEwen
said that the Government was aware
of it and had “taken steps.”
Mr. McEwen then gave some reasons
for the decline:
Increasing competition in overseas mar-
kets and reappearance of a buyers’ market.
Production lowered by lack of power and
raw materials, especially in the metal indus-
tries, and manpower shortages.
Export surpluses, in textiles, for instance,
eaten into by growing demands of expand-
ing Australian population. Import restric-
tions imposed by other countries, notably
India and South Africa.
Shipping “difficulties.”
All of which probably have their effect,
but there are some others, such
as high costs of production, caused by
high costs of government as well as high
wages and short hours, which make the
price of the finished article too much
when the buyer can either get it else-
where or do without it. There is also
the notoriously bad “packaging” of Aus-
tralian goods as compared with those of
its competitors, and the fact that in most
cases it takes almost twice as long to
deliver Australian-made goods abroad.
However, Mr. McEwen proposes to
correct the position:
A trade mission has gone to South
America; it is hoped new markets will be
opened in Brazil and Argentina. The
Government will “strengthen the official
machinery for dealing with the requirements
of exporters”; it is spending money on
trade publicity; it is hoped to make an
arrangement with Indonesia; new measures
have been considered by the Federal Export
Advisory Committee.
Mr. McEwen will “seriously consider”
suggestions on the matter. One he ought
to consider is whether or not it would
pay if the Government concerned itself
a lot less with this aspect of trade. Aus-
tralia has no predominance in secondary
products as she has in wool, and though
international politics admittedly have
their effect on international trade, the
simple truth is that if you and someone
else are competing for business, then
your goods must have an edge on the
other fellow’s in price, quality, appear-
ance, speed of delivery, fulfilment of
contract and a few other things.
What Mr. McEwen calls his “trade-
promotion division,” his trade commis-
sions, his commerce planners and all the
res *T oi a^e . legacy of nine years
of Labor”-Socialist Government, when
planners sprang up all over the place
like mushrooms after rain, overinfested
their own country and overflowed into
other countries. The result has been an
unexampled, unwarranted and madden-
ing interference with private enterprise
all along the line.
Australia has suffered it internally, and
somehow managed to survive; she
needn t hope that it will be appreciated
V 1 spheres. And it mightn’t be a
bad idea if half these Government chaps
running round telling other people how
to mind their affairs were turned to more
productive pursuits.
Those Art-unions.
The generous response to the “Sydney
Morning Herald flood-relief fund shows
that the spirit of charity is still alive in
New South Wales when a disaster occurs
of sufficient magnitude to stir the sym-
pathy of the people. But those charged
with the task of raising funds for chari-
ties of a continuing nature seem to be
agreed that the only sure way of doing
so is by means of a lottery. Of course,
they mustn’t call ’em lotteries—that word
is reserved for the Government gamble
—so the flutters for which they sell
tickets by the million are styled “art-
unions.” Blocks of flats, pairs of
cottages “live in one ; let the other”—
cars, refrigerators, radios, washing-
machines, are among the prizes, and
although the name of the charity for
which the sweep is conducted is always
mentioned, the emphasis in the sales-talk
is upon the easy wealth to be won
rather than on the deserving cause which
is to benefit from the proceeds.
In a State where the director of the
Government lottery is able to boast that
his legalised gamble has drawn one lottery
on each of 100 consecutive working days
a record which he claims is unequalled
anywhere in the world—it is not surpris-
ing that the art-unions should be doing
big business ; the biggest of them sold
over 3,000,000 tickets in a recent drawing.
Although the charitable intentions of the
promoters of most of these art-unions
are not disputed, there seems to be room
for doubt whether all of them are suffi-
ciently mindful of the interests of those
whom they ask to “invest” in their
ventures.
Papers tabled recently in the N. S.
Wales Assembly gave particulars of tickets
issued in six art-unions; the number sold,
number returned unsold and the number
not returned. The figures under the last
heading were rather disquieting—one art-
union showed 52,000 tickets not returned
out of a total of 223,000 issued ; another
243,000 out of 576,000 ; the other four
also recorded a considerable number of
tickets not returned.
The figures led Chief Secretary Clive
Evatt to express himself “amazed to learn
that reputable organisations have per-
mitted promoters to engage in loose
methods of ticket distribution.” One of
the loose methods he might give some
thought to is the common practice of
posting books of tickets to addresses
apparently gleaned from the telephone-
book or electoral rolls, relying on the
recipient to buy or dispose of the tickets
and remit the money and butts. The
practice no doubt increases sales, but if
the unsold tickets or the butts are not
returned there is no way of knowing
whether any or all of the tickets have
been sold; the buyer of a ticket has no
way of knowing whether his number ever
gets into the draw,
Mr. Evatt has said he will issue permits
to hold art-unions only to organisations
which prove themselves capable of con-
trolling distribution. There certainly
seems to be a need for tightening up.
If charity must be financed by means of
a gamble, at least let it be a fair gamble.
"Labor's 11 Rude Awakening.
Last act of the old League of Nations
before liquidating itself was to expel
Soviet Russia because of Russia’s un-
provoked attack on Finland in 1939. It
looks as though, with the “United”
Nations, its successor, history may repeat
Certainly there can be no faith in the
executive of U.N.O. while Soviet Russia!
as prime disturber of the world’s efforts
to restore peace, occupies one of its chief
seats, with a veto. Even Mr. “Manny”
hinwell, one of the Soviet’s erstwhile
admirers in the British Socialist party
now, as Minister for Defence in the
Attlee Government, points to his former
idol as the only quarter from which
aggression might possibly come,” and
says 'it is within the hands of one Power
to take steps to reduce the tension and
remove the world’s anxieties and fears.”
Once he held that Russian Communism
must, on merits, triumph over the effete
democracies. Now, “in any trial of
strength between Russia and the forces
of the democracies,” he says, “there can
be no doubt about who would in the end
prevail —the free peoples of Mr. Shin-
well s new-found faith, of course.
Under the increased Russian threat the
crashing of Socialist idols all over the
place is itself making as much noise as a
minor war. Mr. Attlee, whose conduct
of the Socialists’ “great experiment” in
Britain has left the national defences with
hardly a leg to stand on, now “warns the
country most seriously” that recent “hope-
ful conditions no longer rule.” His Gov-
ernment is now obliged to allocate
revenues, earmarked in enormous sums
for advancement of the Socialist Welfare
State, to the building-up of neglected
fighting services for Britain’s very exist-
Decisions, he says, may prove
difficult and unpleasant.”
The new burden cannot be borne out
ot increased production, and the Govern-
ment will have to transfer to defence
productive resources now devoted to other
tasks.
„ While we shall strive to maintain, as far
as possible, our standard of living, the new
situation will clearly require sacrifice.
That means only one thing—recon-
sideration of the 40-hour week and
“penalty” rates for overtime, “free”
doctoring, and all the rest of the fantastic
schemes for snaring rainbows for “social
security.” Instead, the British nation will
have to be redirected in a hurry to
another spell of hard work with tightened
belts in order to qualify for survival.
Water, Water Everywhere.
July was practically washed from the
eastern Australian calendar with flood-
ing rains on the N.S.W. coast, all the
upper-Darling tributaries in flood big
water moving in the Lachlan, Lake Eyre
filling for the second time this year as
the Diamantina, the Thompson and the
Barcoo ran bankers, and the already-
ruined N.S.W. North Coast settlements
facing more floods.
The toll of damage and loss is reaching
astronomical figures in metropolitan and
rural districts, stock losses are almost
equal to those of bad drought years,
some of the best agricultural land in Aus-
tralia has been flooded repeatedly, and
it is evident that the season’s wheat-
acreage will be cut heavily because the
sowers can’t get on the paddocks.
Production, employment, land and sea
transport, sport and pretty well every
other human activity have been affected,
and there is a vast and growing list of
repairs awaiting. It is the wettest year
of the century and, according to the
prophets, there is more to come.
There is to be a Premiers’ conference
this month—three of the Premiers, at
least, will this time have a genuine case
for extra financial help from the Com-
monwealth for repair of water damage.
"Zombies."
“Labor” is fond of claiming Henry
Lawson as a sort of singing pioneer
of its cause. Nobody will deny that the
poet was all for the underdog in
the bad old days when girls vi'ere
“sweated” in city factories and outback
workers starved between jobs and almost
starved again when they got them —unless
they were “on contract.” It is also true
that Lawson was a unionist through and
through, though what he’d have said
about the heads of some modern unions
is better left unspoken.
In Adelaide a few weeks ago the
secretary of an A.L.P. sub-branch named
Sutherland, after hearing the Canberra
debates on the anti-Red Bill, wrote to
Adelaide “Advertiser,” supported the bill
and dissociated himself from “the
shameful efforts by certain Labor poli-
ticians (who should know better) to
prevent this necessary bill from becom-
ing law.” For this he was charged by
the State A.L.P. with “disloyalty,” but
his sub-branch threw the charge out by
27 to three at a special meeting. Now
the State executive has recommended
that the A.L.P. council suspend Suther-
land.
Sutherland can cheer himself with the
reflection Jhat he is in distinguished com-
pany. Last week Arthur Calwell, M.H.R
a Minister in the unlamented Chiflev
Government, called on the United
Nations of which Australia is one to
supply help to the Americans in Korea
criticising both the Menzies Govern-
ment and the British Labor Government
in the process. Then, according to Mel-
bourne “Argus”;--
Ibo , urne AX.P. Federal members,
and trade-union leaders said
9 alwell had made his statement
without reference to caucus, the Federal
committee. 01 ** Federal Lab ° r advis^
In the Sutherland case the “offender”
Y a T s “advised” to consult the local
A.UP. bosses before making statements ;
m the Calwell case the “offender” is in-
ferential! y advised to do the same.
As Henry Lawson wrote of “Middle-
ton’s Rouseabout”:
Type of a coming nation
1° the land of cattle and sheep;
Worked on Middleton’s station,
Pound a week and his keep;
On Middleton’s wide dominions
Plied the stockwhip and shears;
Hadn’t any opinions,
Hadn’t any “idears.”
No opinions and no ideas (or, if you
have any, keep ’em to yourself) is the
drill for A.L.P. membership. And
“Labor” persistently claims that it is
“progressive.”
More Fine Wools Wonted.
If there is any real conclusion to be
found in a comparison of the prices of
a car, a home and woollen clothing, the
American Wool Bureau seems to have
found it. It told the Australian Wool
Board that whereas cars had risen 93 p.c.,
new houses 94 p.c., more than in 1939,
wool clothing was a mere 80 p.c. higher.
Cotton-apparel prices are discovered to
be 118 p.c. higher, and the average of
all commodities in the U.S.A. is up 86
p.c. The bureau regards as important
the fact that “the buying public benefits
today” because wool clothing “has risen
38 percentage points less than cotton,”
and six “percentage points” less than
average retail prices.
Higher wages and more work are
credited for “an increase in consumers’
buying-power,” and “the general failure
to recognise the difference between
sterling and dollar prices of wool after
devaluation of the [English] pound has
created an exaggerated impression of the
advance in raw-wool prices in the United
States.”
After devaluation, which cut U.S.
dollars-sterling exchange by 48 p.c., wool
importers who had held off in anticipation
of _ better values rushed into the. market.
This boosted the price of fine Australian
wool by 58 p.c. in terms of sterling from
June, 1949, to May, 1950, but the rise was
equivalent to an increase of only 8 p.c. in
terms of U.S. dollars, 20 p.c. in Canadian
dollars and 41 p.c. in French francs.
All of which is probably worth know-
ing, though the more important aspect
from our point of view is the bureau’s
claim that “the demand for fine-quality
wool” in the U.S.A. and Europe has
resulted in consumption being 42 p.c.
above current production of fine
Dominions wool, and “world consump-
tion of apparel wool has been running
about 15 p.c. ahead of production during
the past year.” This, it holds, is causing
wool-fabric designers to turn more to
materials using medium-grade wools.
A New Coal-getter.
Joint Coal Board’s new chairman, Mr.
Cochrane, has started on his job by
issuing a statement that the problem of
getting “desperately-needed” coal “can,
and will, be solved”; and the N.S.W.
Government’s new Minister for Mines
has appointed a special committee to
“study methods” of colliery develop-
ment.
These violent interruptions of bureau-
cratic complacency coincided with Syd-
ney’s worst gas failures and power break-
downs.
No doubt Mr. Cochrane is able and
sincere, and so was the late chairman,
Mr. Cameron. But he and his fellow-
board-members are harnessed to two
Governments which now are not even
of the same brand of politics. Four
years ago Mr. Cameron was also going
to “get coal.” Indeed, the Act creating
the board specified that as its prime func-
tion. That Australian industries and
householders in every State are in
“desperate need” now is due not simply
to the worst rainy winter on record but
to the policy of the Communist miners’
executive in refusing for four long years
of “Labor” “prosperity” to allow any re-
serve stocks of coal to be built up. Mos-
cow ordered this “cold-war” scourge on
Australia, and its loyal Communist
agents carried out the order.
Maybe a Government —especially a
joint-Government—Coal Board cannot,
o Continued on next page.)


*Or
For your throat’s sake
CRAVENA"
Always reliable
Obtainable in
10’s & 20’s
iwore-n
> " - - --- - - - - ■ ■ - . IH7UIU7* IV I
CARRERAS LIMITED ■ OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
anyway, do anything about it. A
Canadian industrial adviser, Mr. Lewis
C. Ord, who was consultant to several
British Government departments during
the war, recently told a plant engineers’
conference at Nottingham that under
nationalisation of coalmines in Britain:
The administration of the industry is the
most expensive management known to the
W9rld, and the most inefficient. Why
British miners are so dumb that they do
not know what to do without an army
of civil servants to tell them, I do not
know. American miners and managements
do better without them. So will you one
day, and the technical schools of the
country five years from now will be quoting
the National Coal Board as the greatest
industrial mistake in the world today.
The new J.C.B. chairman must be
aware that the public is due —overdue,
five years overdue —to hear from the
board why a second shift cannot be
worked (as the Davidson report urged
years ago) and when pillar-coal will be
extracted, and rapidly, by machinery, as
a whole series of foreign experts have
advised as a priority measure in order
to save coal and enable the mines to be
organised on modern lines.
POLITICAL POINTS
Good teamwork was displayed in the
simultaneous announcement in Australia,
New Zealand and Britain that the three
countries would send ground,forces to
Korea. The prior consultation implied
in the decisions was a complete answer
to Calwell and others who had criticised
the Menzies Government for not acting
earlier.
Praise for Menzies came from an un-
expected source last week when Senator
Armstrong, explaining to the Consti-
tutional Club “Labor’s” attitude on the
Anti-Red Bill, said that one thing the
Liberal leader could not be attacked on
was the question of personal liberties.
Naturally there was a catch in the eulogy ;
Armstrong went on to say that in his
opinion the Prime Minister’s heart was
not in the bill, and that if he really spoke
what he felt he would say “Keep those
people in the open, because the lessons
of history have shown that if you drive
Communists underground, that is where
they are strongest.” If those are Menzies’s
real feelings on the subject he concealed
them very well when introducing the bill
—though apparently not well enough to
deceive Armstrong. Chifley and a score
of’ “Labor” members have voiced the
same sentiment, instancing the Red ban
of the early war years as proof. They
omit to add that last time the Reds were
forced underground they had surface
support from the “Labor” party, from
Dr. Evatt down.
Stalin’s agent Malik, conveying Mos-
cow’s message to the general secretary of
U.N.0., strides up in the authentic jack-
boots of the late Hitler:
It is necessary to inform you that, in
accordance with the established procedure,
I am assuming the presidency of the
Security Council in August of this year,
and that I am setting the date of a meeting
of fhe Council at 2 p.m. on August 1.
I request that all members of the
Security Council be notified of the date of
meeting. The agenda will be communi-
cated later.
This, after being a.w.l. for seven months,
during the latter part of which the
“Security” Council declared the Russian-
armed invasion of Korea to be outright
aggression. There has been nothing like
it since Hitler’s representative walked out
of the League of Nations discussion over
Danzig, cocking a snook at the meeting.
Reported from Lithgow (N.S.W.) that
football matches had to be abandoned
because millions of earthworms made the
playing-fields unusable. First theory
advanced was that drenching rains had
saturated the soil and forced the worms
to the surface. A more likely reason is
that with so many Communists going
underground the earthworms, being essen-
tially clean-living animals, have come up
for a breath of fresh air.
McGirr must often wonder why he
sticks to Clive Evatt. Last year he had
to veto an Evatt edict suspending an
executive of the Housing Commission.
It’s only a matter of weeks since, by in-
creasing the size of his Cabinet, he
virtually saved Clive from becoming a
private member, yet he has again found
it necessary to give his protege, now
Chief Secretary, a sharp rap on the
knuckles with a sheet of Government
notepaper. Evatt told the Board of Fire
Commissioners to transfer their bank
account from a trading bank to the Rural
Bank (the metropolitan board no doubt
being truly rural in Clive’s eyes),
stating that it was Government policy
that “all departments and statutory
bodies” should do so. The board objected,
and McGirr, when appealed to, said that
its banking policy was “primarily a matter
for the board itself.” He also denied his
colleague’s statement of Government
policy. Everyone knows that McGirr
and Co. claim to believe in nationalisa-
tion of banking; nearly everyone knows
that many Government departments bank
with the trading banks. The reasons for
this are doubtless well known to McGirr,
but they may be difficult to explain to
narks inside the party. When it comes
to rushing into things Clive’s no angel.
Twitted about fhe increasing number
of Commonwealth employees, Mr,
Fadden is credited with issuing a state-
ment which said, among other things, that
the Government had appointed a com-
mittee to go into the matter:
Initially, its attention has been directed
towards the activities of departments and
their reorganisation from a functional view-
point.
Initially, that statement is not the words
of Fadden, who is nothing if not blunt,
but the product of the very kind of de-
partmental chap the nation is so con-
cerned about. There are far too many
of him smothering the language with this
kind of verbal camouflage.
One of the first acts of the McDonald-
“Labor” Government in Victoria —part of ■
the pay-off to the tail that wags the dog
—was to announce a bill to raise Leg,
Councillors’ salaries from £750 a year to
£lO5O coincidentally with levelling of
the franchise also to that of the Assembly.
Only two years ago McDonald and his
State Country-party rump—then 20, now
12—wouldn’t touch such a proposal with
a 40ft. pole. Leg. Council salaries were
then £3OO, and the Liberal Ministry, aided
by “Labor” in default of McDonald’s
support, raised them to £750. The situ-
ation is only one illustration of the great
political ramp about which the minority
“Labor” camp is rolling with laughter.
Much publicity was given—in the
initial stages—to the Attlee Govern-
ment’s African peanut scheme, which ulti-
mately produced, at a vast cost, a few
bags of peanuts. Another African pro-
ject, which was not a socialistic venture
and which was established long before
Attlee’s time, was the Gezira scheme in
the Soudan, under which a million acres
of land between the Blue and White Niles
were developed into one of the largest
agricultural units in the world. Last year
the Gezira produced a cotton crop valued
at £13,500,000. It supports 25,000 tenant-
farmers and their families and also passes
on to the Soudan Government a consider-
able sum to finance social service.
Kitchener is credited with the initial idea,
and for over a quarter of a century the
scheme has been run on a partnership
basis between the Government, the
farmers and two companies—the Soudan
Plantation Service and the Kassala Cotton
Company. Early last month the conces-
sion of the two companies expired and
the whole scheme became nationalised.
Walter Cunningham, artist, mentioned
on Red Page (B. 26/7/’5O), wishes it to
be made clear that apart from his name
he has nothing in common with Walter
Cunningham, Communist, referred to in
“Political Points” in the same issue. As
illustrator of Leslie Rees’s stories of Aus-
tralian animals, he is more interested in
platypuses than passports and prefers blue
wrens to Red ramblers.
Fadden has set up a “third income-
tax board of review”; operating from
Brisbane, it is to have jurisdiction in
northern N.S.W., help relieve the “Sydney
congestion” if it has time and will last
for seven years. Jacob, after working
seven years for Rachel, got only Leah.
Are taxpayers to find themselves similarly
the victims of hopes deferred.
In Brisbane and Melbourne the
“Labor” party has declared the Demo-
cratic Rights Committee to be a Com-
munist auxiliary.. No details are to hand
as to onus-of-proof or nght-of-appeal.
Unsuccessful Liberal candidates for
two seats at the last Queensland election
have lodged petitions with the Elections
Tribunal. In Bulimba the final
count gave R. J. Gardner (Lab.)
a majority of 42 over J. E Hamilton
(Lib.); in Nash the “Labor man 1.
Dunstan, finished 25 ahead of Liberal R.
Witham. Hamilton claims that some
votes cast in his favor were omitted from
his tally, that other votes were wrongly
credited to Gardner, that some informal
votes were admitted, and that there was
plural voting. In the Nash electorate it
is contended that some people were
wrongly excluded from voting and that
certain absentee votes were wrongly dis-
carded.
New chairman of the Joint Coal Board,
S. F. Cochrane, hopes to see the day when
the pick and shovel will disappear from
coalmining. Mechanisation certainly
seems to be the ultimate answer to Aus-
tralia’s coal problem, but if the industry
and the country are to get the full benefit
from mechanisation, the word “darg
will have to disappear from the coal-
miners’ vocabulary.
Premier Playford, speaking in the
South Australian Assembly last week, said
that industry in his State would be having
a serious crisis now if it were not for
imported South African coal. The coal
comes from Durban and costs about £2
10s. a ton more than the Newcastle stuff
—but it does get there.
The expressed intention of the Port
Adelaide branch of the Seamen’s Union
“to protect our officials at all times from
the security police” hardly seems the sort
of resolution to be expected from a law-
abiding body. The Burglars’ Union or
the Forgers and Utterers’ Association
might well pass such a resolution, but a
union jealous of the reputation of its
members would do better to choose
officials who do not need “protection”
from the security police of their own
country.
British Minister for Health Bevan told
a Durham audience the other day that
the British working class saved the
Russian revolution when Winston
Churchill would have murdered it. He
then went on with a ridiculous plea to
Stalin and Co. to be good boys and not
go spoiling everythirig by “making your-
selves guilty parties in another inter-
national conflict.” Bevan added that he
spoke as one who, “as a young man, did
his best to preserve the Russian revolu-
tion.” What’s he doing as an old man?
A Sydney paper last week stated that
because two unions were fighting each
other for the right to fix brackets to a
machine at Ultimo powerhouse, which
needed only six hours’ work on it to
begin supplying the city with another
20,000 kilowatts of electricity, there had
been a 24-hour strike and nothing would
be done until a Conciliation Commis-
sioner gave a ruling. In the same issue
it was recorded that technicians were
working “feverishly” in order to get a
doubles-tote ready for a race meeting.
Now, if it had only been pointed out to
the powerhouse men that a tote-machine
needs electricity
Nelungaloo, Ltd., which really meant
the N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers'
Association and some lesser bodies, lost
its appeal to the Privy Council on its
plea that concession sales of wheat by
the Chifley Government left the Com-
monwealth, as controller of wheat under
the Wheat Stabilisation Acts and defence
transitional powers, responsible to the
growers for the difference between export
.parity price and the price at which certain
wheat was sold to New Zealand and
other customers, the whole likely to run
into a sum of well over £5O million.
The test case involved the acquisition of
some 14,000 bushels of Nelungaloo wheat
from the 1945-46 harvest, and the argu-
ment of the Commonwealth seemed to
be that it was not required to pay any
more than the minimum fixed price under
the Stabilisation Act#
Motorists in the Sydney metropolitan
area may now —at a price—have & tele-
phone installed in their cars. A phone
in the home is a different matter; some
Sydney people have been waiting four
or five years for installation, and are
further down the waiting-list now than
when they first applied.
Minister for Commerce McEwen
started a first-class row when he removed
Cullen (chairman) and Johnston from
the Australian Wheat Board and
appointed Teasdale and Tilt in their
places. Centre of the row was in the Vic-
torian Wimmera, where growers talked
“revolt” against McEwen, and at the
weekend the Wheat Board was loudly
asserting in wounded accents that its
members had “never been rubber-stamps
for various Ministers,” and that “results”
had proved its success. But it didn’t
explain why it kept silence over the
notorious deal with the N.Z. Labor
Government in 1946. That didn’t come
out till somebody found it in an N.Z.
“Hansard,” and even then it was months
before the growers got the truth.
Wild riots and a general strike of
500,000 workers led by the Socialist party
and Communists in Belgium aim to oust.
King Leopold; the leadership is as
curious as the pretexts, one of which
appears to be the King’s marriage to a
“commoner.” The strike-leader —who
says he is organising a “revolution” —is
Paul-Henri Spaak, that hater of blood-
shed and discord who was foundation
president of the U.N.O.
South Australia’s perennial let’s-
pretend game of finding a site for a deep-
sea port on its south-eastern coastline is
in full swing again. This time the
favored spot is at Cape Jaffa, 11 miles
from Kingston. Harbors Board engineers
suggest a causeway a mile and a third
long, with two berths for vessels up to
550 ft. long; cost about £3,000,000.
A public works committee is considering
the plan, but South Australians will be-
lieve it when they see it.


N AW"
ARMY
PR FORCE
AT THE QUARTERMASTER’S STORE
(after years and years of “Labor” Socialism).


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Vingter”: Recognising my nine-years-
old despite his two black eyes, I learned
that he had collected them as a result of
his resentment of a mate’s loudly-voiced
disparagement of the standard of his
knitting. All
sorts of fears
smote me till
the vanquished
one assured me
that knitting is
the latest craze
among young
male hopefuls
of his age-
group at
school. The
knowledge
stirred a
memory of a
West Queensland shearing - shed in
which the ringkeeper at the two-up
school had, while he supervised the
conduct of the game from his kerosene-
tin throne, kept his knitting-needles
clicking. A large and hirsute specimen,
he had acquired the art during a period
before the mast prior to his drifting out
to the shearing-sheds. He owed his status
as ringkeeper to his fistic prowess, which
would never have been demonstrated but
for aspersions cast on the masculinity of
a man proficient in the art of knitting.
But somehow I can’t reconcile the idea
of my own heir in a few years’ time pre-
senting his girl-friend with a hand-knitted
sweater of his pwn contriving.
* * * ♦
“Curtain Raiser”: Modern art con-
tinues to be an easy mark for hoaxes,
conscious and unconscious. One exhibit
“They won't let me on the floor otherwise ."
it a modernist show at Manchester
(Eng.) gave the civic authorities some-
thing for consideration. It was labelled
“A Head,” and stuck to the top of the
head was a cork from a lemon-squash
bottle —a real cork. Afraid to be called
old-fashioned, the authorities hastily sum-
moned in eminent critic and art officials
to advise as to what the cork meant. An
expert of the British Council advanced
the opinion that the cork ought to be
there, as it completed the composition,
while another said that a ball would have
looked better. A dead silence fell when
the sculptor responsible explained that he
had just put the cork there to protect
his piece from damage.
* * * *
“X.S.”; You can’t judge intelligence
by faces, either in jurymen or other people
(B. 19/ 7/ ’5O). I once walked into a court
where a friend of mine was being tried
and I didn’t dare look at his face, the
faces of the jury or even the judge’s face.
I thought that if I showed recognition in
any way I might prejudice my friend’s
case, so I concentrated my gaze on a
policeman. Another friend wasn’t so
particular. When he came in he nodded
encouragingly to the accused, smiled at
the foreman of the jury and scowled at
the judge. At the lunch adjournment he
shook hands with the foreman, walked
out of the court with him and took him
to a pub for a spot. When the court
resumed a police-officer informed the
judge that a grave misdemeanor had been
committed—a member of the jury had
been accosted. The judge, who up to
that point had seemed sympathetic to my
friend’s case, had no option but to dis-
miss the jury and set the case down for
retrial; my friend subsequently went to
jail. Both the jury-foreman and the
fellow who stood him the drink looked
intelligent enough, yet apparently neithei
had any idea he was doing wrong.
* * * *
“Dentonio”: A notable example in
support of “Ex-R.S.M.’s” claim that it is
usually a civilian who puts Army leaders
right in the matter of adoption of new
weapons (B. 5/7/’5O) was the agitation
that led to the British Army replacing the
Enfield muzzle-loading rifle with a
breech-loader. This took place in the
1860’s. It was brought about mainly
through dissatisfaction with the Enfield of
members of the newly-formed volunteer
movement, backed by vigorous Press
support. Major H. B. C. Pollard re-
marks in his History of Firearms :
Public pressure, rather than any zeal on
the part of the professional soldiers,
brought about rearmament with the
breech-loader. The soldiers then, as ever,
hated anything new, and as long as the
existing arm was pretty to drill with they
loathed any idea of change. The amateur
riflemen, the old Volunteers and Terri-
torials, deserve the thanks of their country-
men for their work as irritants.
■♦♦ * *
“Zake”; Coal-trains pass my Sydney
outer-suburban station daily from the
Newcastle-Maitland fields—that is, they
used to be coal-trains, every truck loaded
to capacity with coal and enough of them
to make the last one be still out of sight
around the bend when the engine had
cleared the signals. Over the years I’ve
watched a change. At first a few odd
trucks, all carrying the same burden and
gradually getting more numerous. The
other day what I have long anticipated
happened, and it can be taken as an in-
fallible guide for the future: the trucks
containing the empty beer-barrels and
empty bottled-beer cases outnumbered
those carrying coal by three. One of
these days there’ll be a bloomer made
and 18 trucks of beer-barrels and one of
coal will go to Bunnerong and a desperate
management will feed the lot into the
furnaces to raise a few amperes or some-
thing. Then the really big strike will
start in the pits.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: It may have been the
effect of Sydney’s prolonged spell of
dampness, but Jack’s sense of humor is
distorted at the best of times. “It isn’t
worth it,” he declared on a particularly
sodden morning recently. “We come here
every day, do precisely the same things,
go home to mum and bed and come to
work again tomorrow. Day in, day out,
year in, year out. I’m satisfied the coves
who are best off are the ones in little
boxes on the shelves at the crematorium.”
Nobody disputed what seemed a reason-
able point except Bill. “Yes, but it
hurts too much getting into the box,” he
objected simply.
* * * *
“Hamer”; When I publish my monu-
mental work on “Fantods, and How to
Feed Them,” snakes will have quite a
small space, comparatively, and elephants
wearing purple-and-yellow striped foot-
ball-jerseys will certainly outweigh the
pink ones. My own specialty in the days
when I used to approach the condition
that calls up fantods was white horses—
or rather the disembodied heads of white
horses showing all their teeth in fury as
they came at me. My habit was to
open doors with caution, and often I have
closed them again
just in time to
prevent my face
being bitten off.
But escaped-
lunatic - trains
which pursued me
down side - lanes,
through shops and
over fences had
another strong
place in my men-
agerie. The flying
unicorns of an old-
time pal of mine
must have been a
particularly trying
breed, for every fly in the room
might suddenly become one of these
beasties. Often have I retrieved my friend
from a wardrobe where, he told me, he
had cowered in a frenzy of fear as he
listened to the unicorns burying their
horns in the wood in savage attempts to
get at him.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: A newspaper puff recently
accorded a visiting virtuoso with the dis-
tinction of having been a pupil of
Paderewski. A musician friend in Mel-
bourne used to trace his pianistic descent
much further back than that. He put it
this way. Haydn was a pupil of Bach,
Mozart of Haydn, Beethoven of Mozart,
Czerny of Beethoven, Liszt of Czerny,
Sauer of Liszt and himself of Sauer.
* * * *
“Wusslean”: Having had my fill of
housing troubles during the past four or
five years, I had reached the conviction
that of the many industries smitten with
post-war blight, the building industry is
surely the worst afflicted, and that nobody
could conceivably be more tardy than a
builder. Now those convictions have
been shaken. A day or so ago I re-
ceived a polite memorandum signed on
behalf of the Commonwealth Statistician,
stating that he had been advised by the
local authority that I had been granted a
permit to erect a new building, and
adding;
The provision of regular and comprehen-
sive statistics of the building industry is of
vital importance to many associated indus-
tries and administrative authorities. I
should be obliged, therefore, if you would
assist me by giving replies to the questions
set out below. These are designed to pro-
vide a reliable summary of the progress of
all building operations.
As my building permit was granted by
the local municipality about 18 months
before building operations actually
began, the house took nine months to
build, and I’ve been in it 19 months, I
feel that it would be superfluous to
answer such questions as: • “Are you
erecting a separate building on the same
location for temporary occupation until
your permanent dwelling: is completed?”
or “Has the construction of the building
been commenced?” As for the final
poser, “Are you erecting any other new
buildings?” no one who has had a dose
of slow-motion building wants to repeat
the dose.
“ No newspaper yesterday? Well, he's left one today.”
PROGRESS RETARDED.
“Manly-ferry passengers, in a ballot conduoted by
the Port Jackson and Manly S.S. Co., decided by
only a small majority against radio programmes
on peak-hour trips.”
The Manly-ferry passenger sat glumly on the
poop,
The morning mist steamed round him like
Maloney’s Mushroom Soup,
He shook like Glupak Jelly in a Junk
Refrigerator,
As much at sea as a forecast by a sporting-
commentator,
“Only a Manly man,” he said, “could relish
days like this,
But, because of recent voting, there are many
things I miss:
“The physical jerks, the comical quirks
And emetical jokes of breakfast blokes,
The daily ration of news and views
As fresh as the tunes that Crosby croons,
The secret weapon of future wars,
Doctor Kajorkadrop’s Purple Pills,
A remedy for such human ills
As Dollop’s Delightful Tomato Sores,
A new recording of ‘Love Me Tonight,’
Chifley and Evatt preparing to fight—
Last year they were bedridden; now they
can waltz
Because of those wonderful UNO’S Fruit Salts
(Said Chifley, T never enlist as a scrapper
Unless there’s that magical name on the
wrapper’):
Such is the succulent table d’hote
Denied to the folk on the Manly boat.”
The Manly matron sat inside the Manly-ferry
locker,
The sun was shining brightly like an H-bomb
Pressure-cooker,
The Heads, beset with rippling waves, stood
tall, aloof and firm,
As though they’d had Denise’s Seven-Guinea
Bargain Perm.
“Ah me!” the Manly matron said. “That on a
day like this
My pleasure should be blighted by the little
things I miss:
“The rounded tones of cultural crones,
Talking of Art and the human heart,
And how to begin becoming as thin
As the words of the tunes that Crosby croons,
Tightnam’s Quadruplicate Compresses,
The secret of eternal life,
Permit the middle-ageing wife
To go on buying Hoopla dresses:
Now Chjfley’s off to Korea to fight,
Use Sofsoap with care on your face every
night,
For Gloria Huddle, the Hollywood starlet.
Carries her Sofsoap around in her wallet,
Remarking, ‘You never know who you’ll be
seein’—
I’d hate they should think me a dirty Korean.’
These are the pleasures the passengers’ vote
Has denied to the folk on the Manly boat.”
The Manly-ferry lovers sat outside the upper
deck, «
His arm was twined around her Fleur-de-
Passion- scented neck,
A breath of wind like Blowhard Toothpaste
gently fanned the two,
And the moon shone, like a candle on a tub
of Biddle’s Blue.
“I love the sea and stars,” she said. “I love
your tender kiss,
But yet, without the radio, there’s many things
I miss:
“I always listen on Monday night
And Tuesday night and Wednesday night
And Thursday night and Friday night
And Saturday night and Sunday night;
When will the murdered cop be found?
Was Jane betrayed by Simon Pure?
Will Davey’s Quiz Team find a cure
For poor Bob Dyer’s Secret Sound?
Is it true that the bite of Tinned Malay
Shark
Is worse than they’re saying of Goossens’
Bach?
Will Scandalous Face Cream, as designed,
Alter my face like Chifley’s mind?
What popular tune did the public choose?
Is Mo still living upon the Nose?
Distrait I may be, Love; cold I am not;
You must put all the blame on this wireless-
less boat.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Clooter”: Australians generally seem
to take the Korean war casually .enough ;
the same cannot be said of Americans.
Negotiations for a business deal of a quite
small nature with a New York firm were
on the point of successful conclusion
when the Korean ballodn went up. There
followed a long silence from New York,
then came a letter to the Australian side
of the deal saying that what with the
“war position” and the “tense situation”
and the “general uncertainty” and so
forth, nothing more could be done just
now, and there seemed little hope of re-
opening the matter until the spring of
1951. The deal was unimportant, had
absolutely nothing to do with war or war
supplies (in which the N.Y. firm isn’t in-
terested), didn’t involve the transport of
goods from one country to the other nor,
at that stage, the transfer of funds. My
own tip is that thousands of letters of
that kind are being written in N.Y.,
though I doubt even one has been written
in Australia. Perhaps the Americans are
more realistic.
j|{ 5J5 »J{
“S.H.H.”: Another itinerant toOth-
puller (B. 7/ 6/ ’5O) was Sequah, who
arrived at our sou’-western town
dressed in top-hat, frock-coat and
travelling in a
coach drawn by
four white horses
and fanfared by
a three - man
band, of which
the bass drum
was the chief
instrument. He
sold “Seal Oil,”
“Prairie Flower”
and other potions
guaranteed t o
deal with ' any
disease known and unknown. As an
additional attraction he announced that
he would draw teeth gratis for any
who would mount the scaffolding his
advance-agent had had erected on a
vacant allotment. Whilst we kids enlivened
the proceedings by pelting the bass drum
with “throwdowns,” he got one taker,
the town’s Tiger Kelly. After the usual
patter, he rolled up a sleeve and pro-
duced a wicked pair of alligator pliers,
’twixt the hand-grips of which was a
rubber bulb containing the anaesthetic.
Tiger took one look at the “forceps” and
tried to bolt, but Sequah pinned him with
an armbar, and as his victim opened his
mouth to protest, rammed the weapon
in and swung on to a tooth. It was at
this critical moment that Wagtail Jones,
having run out of throwdowns, threw his
next best —a big hunk of blue metal. It
missed the drum, ’ but caught Tiger on
the kneecap. Waving tooth and forceps
aloft, Sequah stepped back—just in time
to avoid a terrific haymaker from Tiger,
who tripped over an Austrian chair and
fell off the platform. No one was ever
able to convince Tiger that Sequah hadn’t
kicked him in the shins as a supple-
mentary anaesthetic.
“Bo”: For the most part any book of
quotations comprises excerpts from the
work of men of letters who are beyond
the power to protest to publishers. The
really great usually have no kick coming.
Many who browse through such a tome
for the first time will be amazed to dis-
cover that clichds which everyone uses
nowadays and which nearly everyone
“Fancy those North Koreans RESISTING the Yanks!”
supposes were thought up by some wise-
cracking film comedian actually sprang
from the brains of Shakspeare or Pope,
or were mentioned by some sage who
lived, as Q. Henry has it, “around the
year b.c.” But it is the writer who is
only on the fringe of greatness who might,
with justice, if he could, complain of the
treatment he sometimes receives. Of all
the minor writers who are quoted in my
edition I hold the greatest compassion
for Sir Francis Burnand. A sometime
editor of “Punch,” he must, in his long
career, have written acres of stuff, some
of it of fine craftsmanship. Yet he is
represented solely by this:
It’s no matter what you do
If your heart be only true,
And his heart wgj true to Poll.
In his literary Valhalla Burnand has cause
to gnash his teeth at having been re-
membered by such a snippet which, ripped
from its context, is almost fascinating in
its banality.
w » * •
“Sackville St.”; I can readily under-
stand “Hacko” being moved to poesy by
the thought of a house-to-let sign (B.
19/7/’50); I thought I was seeing things
when a building flaunted the notice: “To
be sold on completion.” When I passed
that way nine hours later the sign had
been removed. The following Monday,
in the midst df broken tiles, brickbats,
ends of timber and scraps of fibro, a
small, ornamental tree stood in its neat
round bed. There was something
triumphant about it—like Captain Cook
raising the flag. Since then that tough
little piece of vegetation has been bent
with ladders, trampled on with Blucher-
boots, snowed under with residue of
fibrous plaster, rolled across by 44gal.
drums and speckled with cold-water paint.
Still it survives, bowed but not beaten.
I’ve got the fool idea that that tiny tree
is symbolic of the spirit of the young
couple who can’t wait till the house is
finished before they start to make a
home of it. Maj they shake off life’s
buffets as triumphantly as their tree has.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Almost as hard to kill as
the legend of George Washington and the
cherry-tree is the belief that Trucannini
was the last of the Tasmanian* aborigines
to die. Actually she was outlived by
three, and possibly four, women of her
race./ Kidnapped by sealers in the early
days of last century and taken to Kanga-
roo Island (S.A.), Betty, Bumblefoot, Sal
and Sukey ended their days there, the
last of them dying in the 1890’s. This
fact was first established by ethnologist
Norman Tindale, who wrote it up in the
records of the South Australian Museum.
It was also given prominence in the
newspapers at the time. Yet look up any
reference work under the heading of
“Tasmanians, last of the” and you’ll see
it stated that Trucannini was the last of
her race, *
He * * • *
“Pawang”: These stories of blind men
(B. 19/7/’5O) being able to “feel” colors
have me puzzled. I don’t doubt them,
but I would like to know by what means
the blind man translates his sensation of
touch into a perception which names the
color. Color, it seems to me, is a thing
that a blind or color-blind person can’t
know and never can know. He may be
able to state the number of vibrations
given off by red and yellow because he
has read them in a book, but that won’t
tell him what red and yellow are. A
color-blind engine-driver might be able to
say quite confidently “that’s red” or
“that’s green” when he saw the signal
lights because he would know the posi-
tion of the signal arms which corre-
sponded with each color ; but if the arms
were altered he would soon show how
little he knew about the colors. A Mel-
bourne man who loves flowers first learnt
he was color-blind when a neighbor com-
plimented him on the variety of hues of
his carnations. He had thought they were
all of the one c'6lor. The blind man
who can tell a horse’s color by touch
may be so sensitive to touch that he is
able to count the vibrations, but it sounds
an almost incredible proposition to me.
m * * ♦
“Lord Luvus”: Australian orchestras
these days pass under the batons. of a
bewildering succession of overseas con-
ductors, their methods and temperaments
as varied as their accents. Generally
speaking, the visitors are polite men, but
one recent importation was a tartar.
Rapping his desk with his baton he
stopped the rehearsal one day and, point-
ing fiercely at a member of the wood-
wind-squad, shouted: “I know an insdru-
ment you ord to leam. It doesn’t madder
if you play it oud of dune.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A remarkable instance of how
a prejudice can persist down the ages
was presented to me the other Sunday
when I started to plant an elderberry in
my front garden. My neighbor poked his
head over the fence and asked me why
on earth I was planting out a thing like
that —its poisonous odor would pol-
lute the whole garden. I couldn’t ob-
serve any offensive smell in the pretty
and inoffensive creature, but attributed it
to the fact that a recent attack of ’flu had
put my smelling apparatus out of corn-
mission. A few days later the word
“elderberry” caught my eye in an
encyclopaedia, and I learnt that the plant
had got its evil reputation in the Middle
Ages because it was supposed to be the
tree on which Judas hanged himself.
Hence every poet or writer who wrote
about it described the noxious odor of
the bark, the leaves and the berries. Poets
and writers are notoriously bad ob-
servers. The bark, leaves and berries
aren’t really unpleasant and the flower is
very delicately perfumed.
* * * He
“Doynest”: Even sadder than the de-
struction of bushland to make way for
“bungs, replete with mod. cons.” is the
sequel, when the proud owner of the
bung, with mod. cons, proceeds to sur-
round the place with what he considers
to be a vast improvement on nature’s
handiwork. We rented a house in one of
Melbourne’s remoter suburbs, then
sparsely settled and noted for its well-
wooded, hilly slopes and abundance of
native birds and flowers. When an allot-
ment adjoining our place was built on,
the. owner had all the trees and shrubs
rooted out; wide and glaring white
concrete paths and drive were laid,
several tons of ornamental rock were
dumped in front of the house and more
cement splathered around to hold them
in plade ; several frail and puny imported
shrubs replaced the sturdy wattles, black-
woods and eucalypts that had formerly
grown there. As a final touch, a small
ready-made cement pool was placed in
the geometrical centre of the green
lawn, with a painted cement kookaburra
perched on the edge, gloomily surveying
the water. No wonder the real kooka-
burras, plentiful in that part of Mel-
bourne, gave the place a wide berth.
* * * *
“Pat”: One guessing competition at
which I have never been able to pick a
winner is; “Which is the floor-walker
and which is the customer?” After
countless failures to pick the right
bloke I have just about given the
game away in favor of finding the
right counter on
the right floor
under my own
steam wasting
hours in the pro-
cess, Now, it
seems, my
worries are over.
Noticed a sign
pasted on the
windows of a
Sydney depart-
mental store: “If
in doubt ask the floor-supervisor—the
gentleman with the white carnation in
his button-hole.” It’ll be just my luck
for members of the smart set (male) to
start shopping there.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I’m lodging a pro-
test against the decision of a group of
Saigonese editors to revive the old word
“grenadier” to describe grenade-throwing
Commo terrorists. The word has a long
and honorable association with the British
Army. It was originally coined to de-
scribe a soldier who threw grenades, and
as only soldiers “of long service and
acknowledged bravery” were selected for
the duty the title was coveted. Later the
name was given to a special • company of
picked men —the Grenadier Guards, for
instance—and the grenadier company was
the first in the battalion. It is an insult to
the memory of all grenadiers to apply a
word once synonymous with honor to a
skulking terrorist, who finds in a grenade
simply a means of killing defenceless
civilians from a safe distance.
“ She's my stand-in.”
GOOD TIDINGS.
“One of several new items of dental equipment now
becoming available from overseas is a painless drill.”
How far, it seems, the days when, with some
molar
(A big one at the back) giving you gyp,
You sought the old-time dentist. A cajoler —
Possessor, too, of a Samsonian grip—
He lured you with a diabolic pleasure
(Or so it seemed) into the dreaded chair,
Proceeding, with a rather studied leisure,
To delve and search, as if for buried treasure —
To move you didn’t dare.
As like as not he’d seek co-operation
In tracking to its lair th’ offending tooth:
A simple matter of your indication
Of it with finger as a guide, forsooth!
Oh, yes, it could be filled. Then, in a fever,
On chair-sides taking quite a stranglehold,
You watched him take the drill, adjust a lever,
And as he burrowed like a blanky beaver
Your vertebrae went cold.
You may have thought that tombstone would
be brittle,
But obviously that wasn’t his belief,
For, with a careless “This may hurt a little,”
Into the cavity he’d bore and reef.
It had to come. You rose toward the ceiling
As on the nerve (exposed) he seemed to dwell.
He’d step back, quite surprised; though no
ill-feeling
He’d show. And as your blood was un-
congealing
He’d say: “We’ll have a spell.”
How vastly different now, and even more so
It will in future be, when painless drills
Eliminate the flutterings in your torso
As cavities are deepened e-e he “fills.”
A silent drill would be a real saver,
Something to soothe the nerve as well as ear.
And soon —who knows? —there may come into
favor
A hot-air squirt containing such a flavor
As malted-milk, or beer.
To have a tooth plugged soon will be a trifle.
Newfangled doovers just can’t give you beans.
While teeth are drilled, relaxed you’ll take an
eyeful
From one of his /ive-year-old magazines.
We still await one sensible invention:
Something to make the gurgle from your gob,
That’s open to the limits of distention,
Sound something like a lively comprehensipn
Of yap that takes your wearying attention
When you can’t nod your knob.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Tarbush”: The 100-mile track be-
tween Hawker and Leigh Creek is as
desiccated a strip of S.A. as one would
wish to dodge. On such a road a request
for water carries a hint of drama. The
track is no longer the lonely spot it
was when, 20 years ago, I punched cattle
down the line and, for days at a time,
never saw a train or car. But even the
drivers of the big trailer-trucks roaring
down from Tom Playford’s coalmine, or
the grader gangs who keep the road open
for them, are aware of the implicit threat
in the red waste that runs along below the
great blue range. Consequently, to ask
for water on the track is to get it, and
with it sympathy and proffered assist-
ance, At least that was so until this
week, but in the future —who knows?
For a new tradition has been bora. A
couple of days ago the grader crew was
camped on a stretch of gibbers 20-odd
miles above Hawker. They had settled
down for the night when a car pulled
up in the frosty darkness, and a voice
hailed. The boss went over. “Water?
Yair. What’s the trouble? Want some
for y’r radiator?” “No,” said the voice
from the ear. “For me whisky!” And
next week, if the old mulga-wire stands
the strain, flood-bound drovers on the
Cooper and sweating truck-drivers north
of the Alice will all be asking for water
“for me whisky.”
“R.W.D.”: When flood-waters rose
around his house, a Richmond River
farmer gave his poultry the freedom of
the veranda.
Next morning,
h o bnobbing
with the un-
willing chooks
were two
foxes. None
of the fowls
had been
attacked. However, it’s a hard world for
foxes, and the refugees, not being able
to produce any papers to account for
their presence, were driven forth into the
water and shot.
* * * ♦
“The Pirate”: Although Tasmania’s
rugged Port Davey is today the un-
challenged realm of the pioneering King
family (B. 19/ 7/ ’5O), it hasn’t always
been as deserted. More than 80 years
ago the grey-granite faced shores about
Bramble Cove reverberated to the thump
of coopers’ hammers as they headed up
casks of whale-oil aboard while as many
as 14 whalers anchored in the cove. As
early as 1820 piners lived along the
river valleys, and gangs of shipwrights
with pit-sawn Huon pine fashioned many
fine craft on the beaches. The best-
known, perhaps, was the Huon Pine,
built at Brookes Bay in 1839 as a yacht
for Lady Franklin and which was
wrecked outside the Derwent entrance
only in 1937. Capt. Harry Heather, for
many decades skipper of the crack
Hobart-Melbourne trading schooner
Alma Doepal, was born and reared at
a piner’s camp in “Davey” in the 1870’s,
and he used to tell how periodical visits
were made to Breaksea Island for
mutton-birds and for eggs, of snaring
wallaby and growing vegetables. Fish?
Well, the flounder are so thick there to-
day they use them for craybait. But by
the 1870’s the timber had been so cut
out that a callous Biuenose-whaler
skipper cut down for firewood the 200-
odd pine headstones in the lonely
cemetery in the shade of Mt. Misery.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I’ve never encountered a
piece of tea-tree so tough that nails
cannot be driven into it (B. 19/7/’5O),
but there are countless varieties, and I’m
not arguing. As a timber, however, tea-
tree was disgraced in my eyes by the
prettiest piece I ever gloated upon. Pur-
suing a hobby of inlaying trays with Aus-
tralian timbers, I needed a new color, one
that would be distinctive, but striking
enough to accentuate the central motif.
I looked through my collection of scraps
—maple, ash, silky-oak, blackwood,
cedar, bean, mulga, fig, rosewood, red-
gum, cypress, ironbark and sandalwood ;
all beautiful timbers, but either they had
been worked into the pattern already, or
didn’t vary enough in color from the
pieces adjacent to the centre. Someone
suggested tea-tree. It seemed ridiculous,
but I ripped down a piece of very dry,
seasoned log. The timber cut well; it
planed even better —the smoothest, richest
red imaginable! Most timbers warp
across the short grain as the glue dries ;
the tea-tree moved very little. When
the tray was sanded down to level
surface, filled and polished, the tea-tree
centre-piece stood out like a ruby
amongst glass. A week later I produced
the tray to do a little skiting to a mate.
The piece of tea-tree hit me in the eye
immediately: the short-grained corners
of the diamond were lifting! Within a
fortnight the piece was as twisted as a
politician’s reply. And timber that can
break good, strong glue to twist itself out
of a tightly-fitted position has some
diabolical content in its make-up that no
other timber I’ve used possesses.
* * * *
“J. H. Lawes”: Army rations World
War II were decidedly better than World
War I, an advantage often put to profit-
able use by the troops. For instance,
germ of wheat —full of vitamins —was
added to the flour used in Army bakeries.
Supply officers of Merauke Force
(D.N.G.) were at their wits’ end to
account for the pilfering of this particular
item. Investigation disclosed that the
“owners” at Army race meetings had dis-
covered that germ of wheat gave their
Timor ponies that added pep needed to
win. The effect on the stallions was
superb. These ponies were originally
acquired by the Australian troops from
ANOTHER LOADED DOG.
the local Indonesians, and, as “owners
marched out, were “sold” to new owners.
When the war looked like finishing the
original Indonesian owners laid claim to
their ponies, some establishing their ngms
by thieving the steeds in the best Nat
Gould manner. Investigation by me
Dutch Administrator protecting the
“rights” of his nationals, and close inquiry
by the Australian troops for an altogether
different reason —horse theft brought to
light a plea that the ponies had never
“Drop the hook here , Willie. ”
been “sold” but had been “leased” for
the duration only. H.Q. Merauke Force
had to intervene in the major international
dispute. I don’t know the final outcome
—I wasn’t there then —but presumably,
since the troops had to leave and the
ponies stay behind, the Indonesians won
the argument.
* * * *
“Bo”: “Struck a bloke once out in the
plains country,” said Bogan Ben, “sittin’
beside an ancient ute. He hailed us an’
bit us for some juice—-didn’t have a drop
in his tank. We could spare him some to
get him to the nearest township, but
when we looked around for somethin’ to
syphon it from our tank into his we
were stumped—not a bit o’ tubin’ in
either car. We scratch our heads for a
bit tryin’ to think up a substitute, then
the bloke puts a stick in our tank, makes
some mental calculations, grabs the rifle
out of his ute an’ says, “I think we’ll
be jake—l’ve seen some around here” —
an’ he disappears through a patch o’
timber. A bit later we hears shootin’,
but he don’t come back. Every now an’
again a few shots go off, an’ after about
half an hour we make for the sound of
’em. We eventually come on the bloke
wjth about six dead emus around him,
an’ there seems to have been some
surgical work been done on ’em. When
he sees us he shushes us an’ whispers to
keep back. “All runts,” he says, pointin’
to the chooks. “Ain’t one of ’em got a
windpipe that’ll reach from the juice in
your tank to the openin’ in mine. I
see a big one over there ; if I can get him
we’re jonick!”
* * * ♦
“Pip Tok”: Perth Museum has become
the last resting-place of the first albino
penguin known to science. The bird was
presented, along with a number of other
specimens, including a magnificent King
Penguin, by two biologists on their
recent return from Heard Island. The
bird is of the gentoo variety, which
normally have white fronts, grey
or black backs and red eyes. The
albino specimen has an all-white
coat, yellow eyes, white legs, nails and
toes. It was caught after a long chase
over a snow-covered beach at Heard
Island, and “liquidated” in the interests
of science by means of a couple of sleep-
ing tablets.
* * * *
“Carver”: A fellow with a taste for
bar-side argument could probably pro-
vide himself with a superfluity of beer by
betting all-comers they couldn’t skin a
rabbit, taking off the skin cleanly, with
no muscle attached. Unless he struck an
anatomist with spare time, his stakes
would be safe. Like most animals, the
rabbit can twitch or shudder its hide
at will. The mechanism that makes this
possible is a thin sheet of muscle, origin-
ating from chest and armpits, that en-
wraps most of the body behind the
shoulders, and whose fibres are inserted
into the skin of the back. To get the
skin away from that sheet of tissue, as
well as from the smaller but similar
cutaneous muscles of the neck, ears and
face, is a long and difficult job, calling
for ’some skill in dissection. The task
of skinning a man would be a lot easier
if it were not for the abundant sub-
cutaneous fat, except in the facial region.
For man has lost the big “shuddering”
muscle of the trunk. However, he makes
up for it in the multiplicity of small
muscles inserted into the hide over his
dial. The facial muscles permit the wide
range of expressions peculiar to the
human species. Where a novelist or
“8.A.K.” (B. 12/7/’5O) would say “His
eyes took on a steely glint” the anatomist
would note contractions in the procerus,
parts of the obicularis oculi and the
muscles about the mouth. In short, the
intrinsic “expressions” of the eye are as
much fictional phooey as the psychb-
logical qualities attributed by flapper-
Press writers to “firm chins,” eyes too
close together, and* the rest.
* * * *
“Pandanus”: Dad, having got himself,
after many preparations, comfortably
into bed at
last beheld a
cat in the
doorway.
There was no-
thing for it but
for Dad to up-
heave his 15
stone again and
let fly at the
feline intruder.
Then the old
man sat howl-
ing over an agonised toe. That thunder-
ing kick had landed on the shadow of
the cat on the' heavy wooden door.
♦** * ♦
“Salmon Gums”: When two Westralian
anglers, fishing in about 60ft. of water
off Safety Bay, some 30 miles south of
Fremantle, landed a fish after a hard
fight, they were at first disappointed, then
amazed. Instead of the 10-pounder skip-
jack the fight had suggested they hauled
aboard a lOin. brightly-hued monstrosity
that literally stood up and glared at them.
It was a flat-bellied fish with pink as its
predominant color, and with big pectoral-
fins which, when spread out, revealed a
variegated pattern that included bright
purple spots. In front of each pectoral-
fin were four “legs” on which it was able
to stand. Add a high dorsal-fin and
you’ye got it: the flying gurnard—so-
called. It’s a deep-water fish, ranging
usually 50 to 100 fathoms, and is quite
incapable of flight. It isn’t altogether
rare —trawlers pick up quite a few—and
it makes good eating, but it’s seldom
caught by anglers. It’s related to the
true flying gurnard, a tropical fish with
greatly-enlarged pectoral-fins, which can
fly. That is, if flying-fish really do fly.
♦ H= * #
“Rooster”: Science seems to have
given a strong argument to the toper with
its assertion that ordinary fresh water is,
in fact,: a potent poison. If a live active
cell under the microscope has its medium
changed from a mild saline solution to a
pure watery one it will be seen to swell
and burst. The reason is that saltless
water can kill by arresting all excretion
from the kidneys—for these organs can-
not function in the absence of sodium
chloride —and partly •by causing the
blood-corpuscles to rupture and dis-
charge their potassium salts into the
bloodstream. Result, the heart is
paralysed, directly by the potassium, in-
directly through lack of oxygen. There’s
a saver, of course —it would be impossible
for any human to imbibe sufficient pure
water to bring about such a calamity.
AT DARDEL’S PARADISE
GARDENS.
Ghosts upon Moorabool’s bastion bridge.
Refreshed with ghostly wines,
With Dardel dream of Paradise
Among the Batesford vines.
There’s Pettavel of Pollocksford,
Brequet and Belperroud,
Fownes, Muhlebach and Deppeler,
Neuohatel’s Victor Cornu.
They planted vines and trod the grape
Out Berramongo way;
And settlers bringing down the wool
Drank Junod’s Cabernet.
But vines and vignerons are gone
To time’s rich vintage home,
With bullock-drays and square-rigged ships;
Now, only fancies come
Of Tetaz pouring wine for dukes
In ghostly cellars cool,
Of Dardel building Paradise
Beside the Moorabool.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


“Solitude” ; Billy Carruthers and young
Bob tumbled off their nags and puffed
noisily to the pub veranda. “Good go.
Bob,” bragged Carruthers, grinning.
“Sharp bend, too. If a bloke couldn’t
ride oroperly he’d come off at that bend.”
Then, catch-
ing sight of
S e v entyfiver
against a
post, he
added: “Ever
race down
that track
from the
sports-
ground, old-
t i m e r?”
Slowly the
old bloke
dragged hi s
eyes off the
horizon. “Yair. Everybody raced there
once,” he drawled indifferently. “Only
it weren't a road in them days. Just a
string o’ bogs, with logs ’n’ stumps hid
in the tussocks.” “Raced for fun, did
you?” “Yair. Cornin’ back from the
footy matches,” mused Seventyfiver. “An’
whoever won the week before got handi-
capped with somethin’ extra t’ carry.”
“Huh! No decent rider ’d race with a
load. Not on the good nags y’ get
nowadays.” The voice was slightly
derisive. “You’ll say next you always
won easy.” Seventyfiver’s head wagged
slowly. “Not so easy, me lad,” he mur-
mured. “Night o’ the grand final, I
’member, wus ,a tough race. Wouldn’t
’ve bin so bad only I was ridin’ a young
nag only half-broke, an’ she wus hard
t’ hold, with the reins in me teeth.” “In
y’r teeth! Gripes, what did y’ hold
them there for?” “Had to, sonny,”
drawled the old bloke mildly. “Had to.
Y’ see, be then me handicap four
loose pie-melons an’ a crosscut-saw.”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: I think “Wasp-
watcher” (B, 28/6/’5O) will find that each
different type of wasp or hornet concen-
trates on a particular type of spider, so
he knows how much in-built storage-
space is required before he starts
hunting. Just now in my neck
of the woods the little multicolored
spiders—greens and light browns pre-
dominate—go in fear of a little striped
lightning-flash that can remain motion-
less in mid-air for-many seconds before
striking faster than my eye can follow.
The big grey ground-nesting spider is
about in limited numbers, but he doesn’t
give a hoot for the striped killer. He
doesn’t even worry about the big ground-
nesting hornet either, and that’s strange
to me, because in a few weeks’ time that
hornet will be seeking a living incubator
for its eggs, and that spider will be its
first choice. By then the spider will have
responded to the teachings of the million
years of ancestors and will be aware of
the hornet’s intentions. It is one of
nature’s mysteries that the two can live
side by side, completely ignoring each
other, for 10 months of the year and
then suddenly become hunter and hunted,
pledged to an age-old enmity. During
the hornet’s mating season the spider
moves in fear almost as paralysing as
the hornet’s sting. And that goes for
young spiders, who can’t possibly have
experienced pursuit or witnessed a fel-
low’s capture. It’s instinct, pure and
simple, and presumably? it serves its pur-
pose. The hornets find enough spiders
to perpetuate their species, and sufficient
spiders avoid capture to perpetuate
theirs. Otherwise it’s one-sided. I’ve
seen hundreds of hornet-spider contests
and I’ve never yet seen a spider win—-
or escape.
“Kelms”: Is “W.W.” sure that the
wasp he was watching enlarged that hole
to hold the spider (B. 12/7/’50)? It’s the
practice of a wasp, when -approaching
ffs nest with its prey, to deposit the
the spider a short distance from the
entrance and investigate the nest
thoroughly, as though seeking some
possible enemy. That this manoeuvre is
due entirely to instinct was demonstrated
fiy a researcher who, like “W.W.,” re-
moved the spider while the wasp was in-
vestigating the nest. When it found its
P re Y again, instead of carrying it straight
to the nest it repeated the drop-it-and-
search-first procedure, and the spider
was again moved. This went on a number
of times until the scientist, deciding he
must-tire first, gave up. When, after its
final investigation of the nest, the wasp
found the spider where it had left it, it
carried its burden into the hole. Pre-
sumably, aeons past, wasps were waylaid
in their homes by some predatory foe,
or they discovered that their nests were
being used by some insect cuckoo whose
progeny hatched first and ate the baby
hornet’s meal, and formed the habit of
searching when returning from a flight.
At some stage along the line instinct took
over, and now a modern wasp could no
more enter its nest after a flight without
searching it than could a Commo ques-
tion an order from Moscow. Blind
obedience is the law for those who can’t
think.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The subject was
“the hardest wood in W.A.,” and the
chance-met strangers in the railway
carriage were divided between jamwood
and wodgil when the little bloke said,
“You blokes ever been in Broome?”
They hadn’t. “Ever seen sea-ebony?”
Again they hadn’t. “Then you can’t talk
about hard woods. Hard! It’ll beat any
of your wheatbelt or desert timbers.” He
said a lot more about it and I let him
go. He looked; acted and spoke like a
civil servant, and if he’d been in Broome
in that capacity he probably still walks
with a limp. Sea-ebony isn’t a wood,
unless you’d call seaweed a tree. It’s a
marine growth, usually found on a reefy
or coral bottom, and a big specimen would
go about 6ft. high and be as thick as a
pencil. When it’s fresh it can be twisted
easily, but, skinned and dried, it be-
comes hard and tough. It’s completely
grainless, very like the tip of a cow’s
horn, and it’s black, with sometimes a
grey streak running through it. Polishes
well, and, being rather rare, is prized.
Just as well it doesn’t grow on land. A
clearer strikes enough snags as it is.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We got out of the train
at a western N.S.W. town, dumped our
gear in a pub, had a drink and took a.
stroll around to see what was doing.
After dinner Mat said,, “Slip down t’ the
station an’ see if there’s a train out of
here this afternoon.” “Why?” “Well,
we ain’t goin’ t’ stay here, are we?”
“What’s wrong with the place?” “What’s
wrong with it! Don’t y’ use y’r ruddy
eyes? Didn’t y’ see all them bloomin’
dogs lyin’ about in- the street; under
sulkies an’ cars an’ on the pub verandas.”
When he mentioned it I recalled being
struck by the number of them. “What
about it?” I demanded. “Well, cripes,
what chance have we got in a flamin’
place where even the ruddy dogs is too
lazy t’ do anythin’ or can’t find anythin’
t’ do? What d’ y’ reckon their owners
is doin’ while they’re lyin’ round like
that?” We got a train out about 5 p.m.
The town wasn’t aggrieved. It never
knew it had been viewed, judged and
condemned, and probably wouldn’t have
cared if it did.
“ Gripes , it's nice t ' 'lie in comfort listenin' t' the rain outside.”
“Zake”:, Old Jed, in from the out-
station, handed a battered alarm-clock
to the bookkeeper with a request that it
be sent into the town “to get the watch-
maker bloke to get it gom’ again ; also,
that he wanted a quick job done. Notic-
ing its blank face, the bookkeeper said:
“Wants two new hands, too, eh? Didn t
bring the old ones with you, did you,
Jed? They’re sometimes short of spare
parts, you know.” “Tell him not t’
bother about the hands—-I don’t miss
’em.” “But how can you tell the time
without” ■ began the bookkeeper.
“Who wants it to tell the time by?”
inquired Jed. “It’s its tickin’ I want —
next to me dorg it’s the best company I
got! ”
* * * *
“Dinkum”: Ever seen a paddock of
rabbits dying of a malady among them-
selves? Had heard of it, but hadn’t
struck it till the other day, when I went
down as usual to course the customary
“A four-decker sandwich, please."
influx of invaders back over the fence
into their strip of bush-country. The
neighboring stretch is rough, eaten bare
and alive with rodents. Coming on a
burrow I thought might prove trouble-
some, I climbed the fence and dug it out,
only to find four dead rabbits at dif-
ferent places along its length. Interested,
I followed up the hill to where the dogs
had run a bunny into a log. There, as
well as the live rabbit, was another dead
’un, while a second burrow I experi-
mentally dug some distance away
revealed two more carcasses. Worms, I’d
say. Not all the rabbits were poor, the
one in the log showing medium condi-
tion, having probably died in that refuge
after an enforced run. Did I say worms?
Well, maybe it’s Providence. For, if you
ask me, there’s little likelihood of that
stretch of rock and rubbish being thinned
out any other way.
* * * *
“S.G.”: Mesquite as a pest in the
Kimberleys hasn’t been taken for granted
(B. 5/7/’5O). It’s been tried by serious
experimenters who thought along the
same lines as “Bogaduck,” and it’s been
found still more trying. It isn’t a success
as. a fodder, and it isn’t necessary as a
honey-bearer. In W.A. we have a wide
variety of flowering shrubs and trees
the honey-flow of which amazes visiting
apiarists, and if they’re not famous, .like
the honey-locust, they’re at least the equal
of anything in the same line in the world.
If, as “Bogaduck” theorises, the
of W.Aj badly needs some “small-man
forms of primary production,” it’s equally
certain that those “small farmers” would
as badly need a close market which
doesn’t exist yet. For the same reason
those wonderful beaches are destined to
remain practically unknown for a few
decades yet. They’re good, but they’re
remote, and some time must elapse be-
fore sufficient people will be prepared to
travel a few; thousand miles to see them,
particularly as that route will take them
past dozens of semi-developed beaches,
any one of which is streets ahead of
Florida’s best.
» * * #
“E.”: With one eye on the clock his
missus had been waiting hours for old
Ben to come in, then, unable to stand it
any longer, she pulled on a hat and started
up the road to the pub. “Yes, he was
here,” the hotel-owner informed her, “but
he’s gone home —left half an hour ago.”
Mrs. Ben searched the road, searched the
house and the outbuildings, and, her
alarm growing, once more presented her-
self at the pub. “Well, there’s nowhere
else he could have gone,” puzzled Bung.
“Ancl he wouldn’t be run over or you’d
have found him on the road. We’ll
look round here.” They went through
the pub rooms, hunted round the
veranda and the bushes near by, then
Bung collected a lantern and they started
a tour of the sheds. Woodshed, stables
and fowlpens all drew blanks. “There’s
only the pig-house left,” explained Bung,
“but we might as well look there, too.”
The building was low-built, and as they
peered among the straw at the dark
mounds of sleeping animals the worried
lady thought she caught a glimpse of
boots in a distant corner where most of
the animals' were piled together in a
bunch. Politely Bung held the lantern
high. Came a stir and a grunt from the
corner, then a sleepy voice: “Aw, git
over, Martha, can’t y’,” it complained.
“Y’re takin’ up all the rotyn!”
* * * *
“Vet.”; One result of the present wet
season in the south-eastern States is that
districts where footrot in sheep was
previously unknown are now fast in
the throes of the curse. Owners with
afflicted sheep labor worriedly, and
wonder where they 'will obtain disease-
free stock when they pass out their present
flocks, while the unafflicted owners fight
to keep the contagious disease off their
country. One cove in a newly-infected
district has fought hard to keep his land
clean. Learning that the germs could be
readily introduced on the feet of animal
carriers, he has refused agistment, dis-
allowed short-cutting through his pro-
perty by affected stock, and tended fences
carefully against strays. His sheep are
regularly rotated on to dry hill-country,
and any slight lameness investigated im-
mediately. Care and vigilance have
been rewarded. Tonight, arriving home
after dark, he learned by phone that a
mob of footrot-ridden sheep passed his
property during the day and the new-
chum drover, not caring to leave on the
roadway the exhausted cripples that could
travel no further, transferred them over
the fence in many places into his pad-
docks. I dofflt know what the law is in
such cases. I don’t care. But Ido know
that with the crack of dawn begins a
grim hunt, first for the diseased jumbucKs,
then for the blankety-blank that put em
in.
GOOD MORNING, MORNING.
Cnft crying of the dawn while cockatoos
Kark their delight with beating wings, white
And threshing in the kurrajong In the blue,
The changing glass, a hawk delights
The hanging sun with soaring dances.
And the brown horse treads the morning dew,
Shakes his red mane, and in the shaking prances.
I don’t often see you, morning:
L use a lie-abed fellow pretending;
I hold warm the bed. No light comes crawling
Thrmieh the dark curtains, no early ending
To my longer night. I don’t hear the calling
And dancing of cockatoo-crested morning.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


a
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws,
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W, Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman);
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Safeguard gear Estate
by appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor of your Will.
Advantages: Security Continuity Expert Management Impartiality
Accessibility Secrecy Continuous Audit Moderate — Fidelity to Trust.
Write or call for free booklet
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.'
df
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £966,706
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
1.C.1.A.N.Z., Ltd.
1.C.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends N
Year, Pref. To Re-
Sept., Profit.* 5 p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.]
M3..394,616 50,000 5 p.c.= 255,869 J 108,747 195,294
Unexplained additions, £l9B .. ]
From inner reserves, £lO7 .. 1
Intangibles reduced, £B4 . . f
Outside equity bought, £B4 .. I
195,767
'44..891,517 50,000 5 p.e.= 247,662 93,855 289,622
Net reduction reserves. £294 . . 1
Intangibles reduced, £36
289,364
'45..308,698 50,000 44 p.c.= 238,839 19,859 309,223
Net reduction reserves, £lB,OOB I
Added to intangibles, £179 .. (
291,036
’46..413,302 50,000 5 p.e.= 272,662 90,040 381,676
Unexplained additions, £77,083 ]
Res. of new subsids., £43,363 I
Added to intangibles, £170,396 ]
331,726,
'47..4158,024 50,000 5 p.c. = 274,675 138,349 470,075
Reserve adjustment, £9374 net . . 479,449
Added intangibles, £15,176 .. 464,273
From subsidiaries, £lO,OOO . . 474,273
Non-trading profits, £10,821 . . 485,094
’48..523,690 50,000 5 p.c.= 290,300 183,890 668,484
Added intangibles, £32,835 .. 645,649
Non-trading profits, £12,648 .. 658,297
Unexplained reduct’n res., £44,718 013,579
'49..568,693 50,000 5 p.c.= 352,800 165,893 779,472
* Eliminating outsiders’ proportion. f Deducting
intangibles (now £860,068). J Paid in scrip.
This 22-year-old offshoot of the big
Imperial Chemical Industries Co. (Eng.),
and its 16 subsidiary and associated cos.,
play an important role in the national
economy. During World War II the co.
provided Australia with most of the
chemical sinews of the conflict, which are
basically those of peace, too. So the
group is a valuable contributor to our
industrial development, and likely to re-
main so. To cater for the new and
rapidly-growing demands which have be-
come pronounced since war ended, one
Unit has been added to another, until
today a whole series of interdependent
industries has been built up ; and new
processes and new products are being
constantly tested and brought into com-
mercial usage.
Chemicals for industry and agriculture
are turned out at Botany (N.S.W.) and
Yarraville (Vic.); alkalis at the big
Osborne (S. Aus.) plant; explosives,
ammunition, nitrocellulose, ammonia,
dyestuffs, plastics, leathercloth and slide-
fasteners at Deer Park (Vic.) and Botany
(N.S.W.); and ammonium sulphate and
methanol are being produced on Govern-
ment account at Ballarat (Vic.) and Villa-
wood (N.S.W.). Last term sales of the
parent and its eight wholly-owned sub-
sidiaries increased by nearly 14 p.c.,
reaching £12,416,000 —raining, textile,
light chemical, engineering, glass and
agricultural industries in that order were
the co.’s principal markets.
Disregarding non-trading profits and
unexplained movements in res'erves, etc.,
interlined in the table, and after eliminat-
ing the equity of outside shareholders and
allowing for depreciation (£469,636, up
£24,452) and taxation (£418,925, down
£11,952), combined net earnings of the
group were £568,693 (up £45,003). The
coal strike involved the co. in losses and
extra costs which affected the net result
by over £lOO,OOO, the directors say. The
£568,693 was enough to pay the pref.
div, and show 7.3 p.c. on average ord.
capital as against 8.1, 7.5, 6.6 and 4.7 p.c.
back to 1945. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined), the year’s
profit was 5.8 p.c., which suggests, among
other things, that customers’ needs are
being met at reasonable cost. The div.
was kept at an all-round 5 p.c. And
there was a lot of money (about
£1,417,000) represented by plant, etc.,
that had not commenced contributing to
the pool when the books were ruled off.
Of the £8,993,495 of share capital a
million is 5 p.c. pref. money, put up by
the Australian public at end 1938. 1.C.1.
(Eng.) owns 64.5 p.c. of the ords., and
most of the balance is held by 8.H.P.,
A.C.1., Electrolytic Zinc, the big mining
cos. at the Barrier and Commonwealth
Fertilizers, all large consumers of the co.’s
products. In 1948 2,500,000 new £1 ords.
were issued at par to help finance dupli-
cation of the Osborne plant and moderni-
sation and extension of the explosives
factory and other units at Deer Park —
both are now well along the road to com-
pletion. The final £1,250,000 on the new
issue came in during the last term, and
further capital will soon be needed for
additional projects now in hand.
The next table shows the financial
framework of the group and the rapid
growth of the undertaking since 1938:
1.C.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
1938. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. £4,639,409 £7,743,495 £8,993,495
Outside interests* 617,168 694,113
Sundry creditors. . 271,271 2,666,066 2,507,288
Taxation, etc. . . 213,247 747,220 710,477
Freeholds, plant, etc. 1,533,167 3,797,458 4,332,433
Stocks .. .. 1,090,747 5,688,092 6,515,873
Debtors . . .. 511,987 2,066,104 2,129,228
Investments .. 857,859 1,003,078 1,093,513
Cash . . . . 1,106,483 225,568 28,9.4.4
Intangibles . . 647,563 837,233 860,008
* Including proportion reserves.
The year’s net additions to the book-
value of fixed assets were £534,975, stocks
£827,781, book debts £63,119 and invest-
ments (mainly shares in associated cos.)
£90,435.
At 255. 6d. the well-protected prefs.
yield 3.9 p.c.
R, Fowler, Ltd,
, Dividends
Sept. Pref. To Be- Re-
-30, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1944.. 11,127 2800 7 p.c. = 10,500 74,814
From tax reserve, £2OOO .. .. 76,814
1945.. 13,617 2800 7 p.c. = 10,500 317 77,131
Profit, sale assets, £786 .. .. .. 77,917
1946.. 14,079 2800 7 p.c. = 10,500 779 78,696
From tax reserve, £2750 .. .. 81,446
8 p.c.
1947.. 16,529 3200 8 p.c. = 12,000 1829 82,775
1948.. 18,203 3200 8 „ „ 12,000 3003 88,003
From tax reserve, £3500 .. .. 91,503
Profit, sale assets, £879 . . • ■ 92,382
1949.. 16,082 8200 8 p.c. = 12,000 882 93,264
The outlook for shareholders is more
promising than at any time since the
present co. took over the old-established
pottery business of R. Fowler in Sydney
31 years ago. Slump in the early 1930’s
caught the co. with overvalued plant and
subsidiary interests. When the business
became profitable again in 1933 it was
put on an even keel by reconstruction of
the capital account —Bs. a share (£100,000)
was lopped off the ords., reducing them
to 12s. each, arrears of pref. divs.
(£12,200) were cancelled, and the rate was
lowered from 10 p.c. to 7 p.c., with the
right to advance with the ords. from the
lower to the higher level. Paid capital
was thus reduced to £190,000 (40,000 £1
7-10 p.c. cum, participating prefs. and
the balance ords.), and has remained
steady since.
After a six-years drought and loss of
the capital just mentioned, the ords. got
back into the picture with 2 p.c. in 1934,
and have had regular annual distributions
ever since. The rate climbed to 7 p.c. in
1937, remained steady for the next decade
and 8 p.c. was paid for the three years
to the close of last accounts. Reserves
climbed from £6173 in 1934 to £93,264
at end Sept, last, while manufacturing
activities, which had spread to Melbourne
in 1929, were extended to Alderley, near
Brisbane, in 1939, and to Cudmore Park,
near Adelaide, in Nov. last —a new sub-
sidiary was formed to handle the Adelaide
project. The parent’s old Hornsby
(N.S.W.) works were sold to the local
shire council in 1946 at a profit of £786.
The principal works at Marrickville
(N.S.W.) turn out a wide range of wares,
including drainage and sewerage pipes,
household and other earthenware, floor
and wall tiles, insulators; etc. Production
in the other three States is concentrated
mainly upon sanitary earthenware and
household crockery.
Since war ended earnings have
responded to the upsurge in trade
generally, but competition, price-control
and buoyancy of costs have kept
margins narrow. Last term the coal strike
interrupted production at all plants. The
loss on this account and the rise in costs
left the parent’s own profit £4621 lighter
at £13,582. A div. of £2500 from one of
the four subsidiaries lifted the total profit
figure to £16,082 (down £2121), equal to
8.4 p.c. on capital (pref. and ord. com-
bined) as against 9.6, 8.7, 7.4, 7.1 and
5.8 p.c. back to 1944.
Finances are comfortable, and the co.
is trading well within its own resources:
1944. 1941. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £190,000 £190,000 £190,000 £190,000
Creditors, etc.* 22,674 35,567 37,150 34,080
Due to subsid. 4,586
Final div. .. 7,400 8,550 8,550 7,600
Freehold, plant,
etc. .. 139,098 116,263 113,834 122,019
Shares subsid. 10,658 40,658 40,658 60,658
Stocks .. 64,146 43,248 58,823 72,524
Book debts .. 28,763 31,602 36,784 35,577
Adv. to subsid. 3,052 5,252 20,802
Cash, etc. .. 54,223 82,069 68,352 17,950
i * Includes provision for taxation.
To add £BlB5 net to fixed assets, £13,701
to stocks, and increase holdings in and
advances to subsidiaries by £20,000 and
£15,550 respectively (this mainly on
account of the new Adelaide offshoot), the
co. drew upon cash, etc., for £50,402.
During the next few years the market
for the co.’s products is likely to remain
a strong one, the Adelaide subsidiary is
expected to give a good account of itself,
and the other offshoots are now balancing
on the right side of the ledger. Actual net
earnings will depend largely upon what
happens in the industrial sphere and in
connection with costs, which are still
rising.
The f.-p. 12s. ords., which had dropped
to 19s. in the market in 1949, now fetch
245., at which figure the return is 4 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. On the same basis
the £1 prefs. at 335. yield 4.8 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £7 Is. 7d. prefs. and
325. sd. ords.
Malley’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends s Towards
Pref. Re- Re-
April, Profit. 6.97 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1940.. 15.241 2092 Nil 13,149 28,118
7 p.c.
1941.. 18,098 2100 7 p.c. = 14,000 1,998 30,116
1942.. 22.502 2100 7 „ ~ 14,000 6,402 36,518
1943.. 21.873 2100 7 „ „ 14,000 5,773 42,291
8 p.c.
1944.-30,069 2400 8 ~ ~ 16,000 11,669 53,960
1945.. 28,449 2400 8 ~ .. 16,000 10,049 64,000
1946.. 33.365 2400, 8 „ „ 10,000 14,965 78,974
9 p.c’.
1947.-36,755 2700 10 ~ ~25,983 8,072 87,046
From tax reserve, £9433 .. .. 96,479
1948.. 50.626 2700 10 p.c. = 30,000 17,926 114,405
To inner reserves, £5OOO .. .. 109,405
Share premiums, £112,500 .. .. 221,905
1949.. 2700 10 p.c. = 32,875 13,485 235,390
1950.. 67.800 2700 10 „ ~42,500 22,600 257,990
This 31-yeaf-old manufacturer of
builders’ and plumbers’ hardware, dairy
utensils, kitchenware, etc., has put on
more weight, financially and otherwise,
during the last four years than in the
preceding 27. Since 1946, £225,000 of
fresh ord. capital, which brought with it
£112,500 of share premiums, has been
gathered, £179,016 (including the pre-
miums) has been added to reserves and
£235,350 to the outside debt, a total of
£639,366. The money went mainly into
freeholds (up £91,117) and plant (up
£95,484) —a new factory and offices were
erected at Auburn and the main works
at Alexandria were extended and modern-
ised—and into stocks (up £278,792) and
book debts (up £184,921), as the follow-
ing comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows:
1946. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £230,000 £330,000 £435,470 £455,000
Overdraft . . 38,216 81,677 58,279 188,348
Creditors, etc.* 65,510 120,198 94,597 150,728
Final divs. ~ 17,354 81,654 34,529 44,154
Freeholds ~ 112,006 161,050 191,167 203,128
Plant, etc. ~ 56,287 88,828 126,367 151,771
Shareholdings 2,804 3,000 8,000
Stocks .. 165,654 255,084 342,425 444,446
Book debts .. 108,083 155,121 194,478 293,004
Cash, etc. .. 10,729 10,551 828 877
Goodwill, etc. 22,682 22,682 22,682 22,682
* Includes provision for taxation.
To cover last term’s increases of £102,021
in stocks and £98,526 in book debts, the
co. went to its bankers for an extra
£130,069 and added £56,131 to the
amount coming to trade creditors. The
£19,530 of fresh capital (last of 1948 new
issue), together with surplus earnings, was
used to increase productive capacity—
£2s,4o4 was added to plant and £11,956 to
freeholds. The more-or-less liquid
surplus (£358,097) was £4771 stronger.
Stocks, the item which catches the eye,
appear at or under cost.
In addition to its two factories, the co.
has three retail branches in and around
Sydney and one at Brisbane. Factory
output and sales both took a long stride
forward last term, despite eight-weeks’ U
loss of production early in the piece, due
to the coal strike. After allowing £20,696
(up £3675) for depreciation —approxi- \
mately 10 p.c. on plant and 2\ p.c. on land
and buildings—and something for the
taxgatherer, the board was able to write
net earnings £18,740 stronger at a tidy
£67,800. That was 14.9 p.c. on capital
(pref. and ord. combined) as against 13.6,
15.3, 12.6 and 14.5 p.c. back to 1946,
and an average of 9.8 p.c. for the six
years before that. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) the year’s
profit was 9.5 p.c., which supports the
chairman’s claim that assets are conser-
vatively valued in the books. For the
last four years the ords. have had a steady
10 p.c. (best rate since the co. was formed)
and the prefs. (30,000 9 per cents., sub-
ject to the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Apt) have received their full contract
rate. v
There is a strong potential demand for
the co.’s products, which seems likely to
continue for some time. The imponder-
able factor is costs, which are still
spiralling under pressure of inflationary
influences. When this pressure eases turn-
over can be expected to do likewise.
However, there is nothing at, the moment
to suggest that the current rates of dis-
tribution are in danger.
The market prices the ords. at 425.
(395. a year ago), giving a return of 4.7
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The prefs.
at 335. yield 5.4 p.c. on their full contract
rate. Cover in net tangibles is £23 15s.
4d. prefs. and 345. 4d. ords.
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co. (S.A.)
Mar., Profit. Dividends.
£ £
1942.. 13,460 10 p.c. = 90001
W/o freehold, £l5OO .. \
Provident, fund, £873 J
1943.. 13,477 10 p.c. = 9000 1
W/o freehold, £l5OO .. j-
Provident fund, £lO7O J
1944.. 13,180 10 p.c. r= 9000 1
W/o freehold, £2OOO . . 1
Provident fund, £llO5 J
1945.. 11,110 10 p.c. = 9000 ?,
Provident fund, £1163 ]
1946.. 11,179 10 p.c. = 9000 1
W/o freehold, £6OO .. }■
Provident fund, £1289 J
1947.. 12,370 10 p.c. = 9000 ]
W/o freehold, £Ol5 .. }■
Provident fund, £l3OO J
1948.. 12,848 10 p.c. = 9000]
W/o freehold, £1056 .. 1
Provident fund, £l7OO
1949.. 13,150 10 p.c. = 9000 ]
W/o freehold, £1139 .. 1
Provident fund, £2143 J
1950.. 12,857 10 p.c. = 9000 ]
W/o freehold, £957 . . }■
Provident fund, £2390 ]
To Re-
Reserves. serves.
£ £
2087 77,642
1877 79,518
1075 80,595
917 81,542
290 81,832
1455 83,287
1092 84,379
868 85,247
510 85,757
This Adelaide trustee co. was formed with
the blessing of Elder Smith and Co. 40
years ago, and for the last 30 of them
it has bqen a steady 10 p.c. proposition.
At the moment it is difficult to say when
better need be expected. For the last
decade the tussle has been one between
rapidly-rising costs and steadily-growing
returns from an expanding volume of
business at fixed corpus and other com-
mission charges. So, despite an increase
of over 61 p.c, in income over this period,
net earnings are still £1429 short of the
1940 figure. A year or so ago it looked
as though the costs gradient might lose
some of its steepness; but the Sept., 1949,
currency devaluations gave inflation a
fresh spurt, and now ominous war clouds
threaten to push solution of the costs
problem generally further into the back-
ground.
Although beneficiaries with pastoral
and agricultural interests have gained
from the high prices received for primary


/.
7?
/
zzz//zZ/
V'
A
YS.
ooi
7
sue
7
y
/
7
7
7^
B.l. Slagwoool is the modern insulating material
which proofs the whole building against extremes
in temperature.
B.l. Slagwool is easily applied to new or old struc-
tures. Live in absolute comfort Winter and Sum-
mer; line your home with B.l. Slagwool and save
on fuel costs too.
For full particular* call, write or phono
C2I
M
sis
msumtum
Phones; SYDNEY. 8X5584: MELBOURNE, MU 3506
BRISBANE 83604: 8.1. (S.A.) LTD. ADELAIDE
Cen. 7257: 8.1. (W.A.) LTD. PERTH L 2107
PTT.
LTD.
dfg
FOR RHEUMATISM
ARTHRITIS. SCIATICA.
LUMBAGO, NEURALGIA.
RHEUMATIC GOUT and all
AILMENTS OF THE
RHEUMATIC GROUP
For 30 years Cluny McPherson’s
Mixture has proved a real blessing
to sufferers from ail-
ments everywhere. Cluny’s is a
scientifically prescribed formula
which quickly at the root of
the trouble, relieves the pain,
restores proper functioning to the
kidneys and tones up the whole
nervous system.
START TAKING CLUNY’S TO-DAY
cluny McPhersons
MIXTURE
FROM CHEMISTS
EVERYWHERE
FAMED THESE 30 YEARS
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l,
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts Limited (incirporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
.Street, Waterloo. Telephone.; MX 2208.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
, • Established 1818
Head Office* 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRDAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
ss
THIS
E SAVING
EY SAVING
NVENICNCE
Paying accounts by cheque is the modern, safe
way to handle Thoney. In the office or in the
home, a Commonwealth Bank Cheque account
is more than a convenience. It saves you time,
energy and money. No need to go from place to place
paying bills in person, when you can so easily pay by
cheque.
Paying by cheque adds to your prestige. It shows you
clearly what you have spent and where. It gives
evidence of payment in case of lost receipts.
A Commonwealth Bank Cheque account is easy to
open, simple to use. Open one to-day at any Branch.
Friendly and practical advice on banking dr financial
matters is available to you in addition to the following
services:—
INTEREST-BEARING DEPOSITS, OVERDRAFTS,
LETTERS OF CREDIT AND TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES,
HOUSING LOANS, SAFE CUSTODY, LOANS FOR
PRIMARY PRODUCTION. ETC.
®ominoirwaltt)&nk of lustralia.
mm
mi
mmmmM
m&m
■/ Adi
m
fs
/ /
ytdden
cknaet
THAT’S WHEN WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
PROVES ITS VALUE . . , Sudden
changes in the weather have a tendency to
lower resistance. Therefore, guard your
health with Wolfe’s Schnapps.
WOLFE'S
i_stvmdbc 1
m -
WOLFE'S
mm
{SsSjlSKas
W 5.203. t<
YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
products, those dependent upon
income from authorised trustee
investments alone have been less
fortunate, and it is hard to say
when their lot will improve. One
thing calling for adjustment at
Government level is the double
taxation of co. earnings—once
in the hands of the co. as profits
and again in the hands of share-
holders as dividends. It is the
ordinary-shareholder who is the
ultimate risk-taker, or residual
beneficiary, whose investment
provides the first or primary
social service upon which all the
rest depends.
Last term £3,186,578 (up
£953,471) of new business was
placed in the co.’s expert care.
This exceeded the value of
estates wound-up by £638,414 —
among the estates that passed
out of the books was that of the
historic South Australian co.,
which had played an important
part in the early development of
the State:
Exes,
p.c. of
Trusts. Income. Exes. Gross.
£ £ • £
1933.-13,992,312 50,874 37,649 74.0
1943. 4 56,108 42,66 1 75.9
1944. . 10,361,194 5 6,80 2 43,62 2 76.1
1945.. 16,730,747 55,267 44,157 79.9
1946.. 17,017.289 61,057 49,878 81.8
1947.. 17,121,252 64,928 52,558 80.9
1948.. 18,011,610 73,519 60,071 82.5
1949.-18,631,39 0 81,112 67,96 2 83.8
1950.. 19,269,804 85,314 72,457 84.9
Exes, (up £4495) made off with
all the gain in gross earnings (up
£4202) and £293 besides, thus
leaving net profit (£12,857) at
14.2 p.c. on the £90,000 of paid
capital as against 14.6, 14.2,
13.7 and 12.4 p.c. for the four
preceding years. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and re-
serves combined) the year’s profit
was equal to 7.3 p.c., whereas
these funds need turn in only a
shade over 5 p.c. to cover 10 p.c.
on capital alone.
At end March last shaie-
holders’ funds, together with
£505 of outside money, were
represented by Government
securities and cash £114,551,
freehold, etc., £65,100 and book
debts £3500.
The pound shares paid to ss.
each have a fairly steady market
around 14s. 6d. The return at
14s. 6d. is 3.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. Cover is 9s. 9d, per
share in net tangibles
Conditions were mixed for
Wellington Alluvials during the
year to April 30, 1950. The co.’s
big 3,000,000 c.y.p.a. electric
dredge, which is digging auri-
ferous leases on the Macquarie
River (N.S.W.), lost 60 days
through power failures, due to
the coal strike of a year or so
ago, and a further 22 days
because of floods. This resulted
in a contraction of 886,000 c.y.
in the quantity of dirt handled
and of 21990 z. in the aggregate
gold recovery:
Cub. Yds. Yield, Pro- Working
April, Handled. Fine Oz. ceeds. Surplus.
1946*. 541,600 1,859 £18,291 £2,543
1947.. 2,323,000 6,149 66,312 15,502
1948.. 3,013,000 10,603 113,896 22,863
1949.. 3,310,000 11,746 126,284 28,672
1950.. 2,474,000 9,547 133,451 35,123
* Dredge started up 8/2/’46. t Loss.
Also the lower yardage, wage-
lifts and higher prices for every-
thing increased unit costs from
9.16 d. to 12.95 d. a yard. Still,
the slightly richer ground
handled (1.85 gr., up 0.15 gr., a
yard) and the Sept., 1949, rise
in the price of gold lifted the
gross return from sales (£133,451)
by £7167. Including £1623 of
sundry income, and after allow-
ing for depreciation (£14,417)
and administrative charges
(£685), the net result was £6850
better at £21,644, or 8.6 p.c. on
the £250,000 of capital, as
against 5.9 p.c. for the previous
year. A 2d. div. (8.3 p.c.) took
£20,833, and a similar payment
was made on July 19, 1950.
They are the first divs. since
Sept., 1942, when 3d. a share
was distributed. At April 30
last the co. had £71,315 in
Government securities and cash,
and stores, book debts, etc,,
totalling £36,080. There was
only £7284 coming to outsiders.
There are many years’ work and
some richer ground ahead of the
dredge, but floods, which have
interrupted digging again since
the close of accounts, power-
rationing and the buoyancy of
costs, make profit estimates diffi-
cult. The f.-p. 2s. shares, which
rose to 4s. 3d. in the market
early in 1949, are now priced
at 3s.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance, Kal-
goorlie (W.A.), will pay a final
10 p.c. on Aug. 28, making 20
p.c. (less English income tax of
9s. in the £) for the year to Dec.
31, 1949. In 1948 the co. paid
10 p.c. from treatment of 137,248
tons of s.ldwt. ore, with gold at
£AIO 15s. 3d. an ounce. The
1949 accounts are not yet avail-
able, but on monthly figures co.
milled 132,999 tons of 4.77dwt.
ore, and the price was lifted to
£AIS 9s. lOd. an ounce in Sept.,
1949. Tailings, treated by Golden
Horseshoe on a 50-50 basis,
turned in more, and Kalgoorlie
Enterprise, in which Boulder
has a 65 p.c. interest, has kept
production and recoveries well
up in the collar, too. The mar-1
ket now prices Boulder’s 4s. I
shares, which touched 9s. 3d. in
1949, at 7s. 3d.
* * * *
Mining is not dead in the
West. Anglo-Westralian Mining
Pty., in which American Smelt-
ing and Refining (New York),
Terra Nova Properties (Canada),
Mining Trust (London) and Mt.
Isa (Q.) are interested, is investi-
gating, or is interested in, half a
dozen prospects scattered over a
wide area of the State. The Pty.
is manager of, and holds a sub-
stantial interest in. Great Fin-
gall Exploration, which is test-
drilling at depth the once-pros-
perous Great Fingall and adja-
cent Golden Crown reefs, near
Day Dawn, on the Murchison
field. Recently it purchased the
Horseshoe, another auriferous
show, in the Peak Hills district,
where a 150-ton-a-day treatment
plant is being installed. Options
have been taken over the Pro-
thero lead-mine, Northampton,
where, if enough of the not-very-
rich and complex ore can be
proved, crushing and concentrat-
ing plants are to be installed,
and over another lead prospect
at Ragged Hills, near Marble
Bar, where a shaft is being sunk
to test the lode at 150 ft. Two
other auriferous properties, the
old Oroya Black Range and
Black Range, near Sapdgate, are
also being investigated. Dr.
Frank Moss is in charge of the
co.’s exploration activities.


mm
I
OiD
*vs
pc.p.bo/w
The importance of
Planning your Will
Your Estate will not yield its
maximum for the protection of
your dependents unless your Will
has been carefully planned.
Changing conditions and the
complexities of taxation are two
important problems to be consid-
ered; there are many others known
to those whose business it is to
administer Estates, but which can
easily be overlooked by those not
so experienced.
i
51
)-
-X IciSi-j.li
By discussing your problems, in confidence, with
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited, you will have the
benefit of the Company’s more than 63 years experience
in the administration of Estates to advise you in your
planning.
By appointing Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as
your Executor and Trustee alone or jointly with a
relative or friend you will solve another important
problem; you will ensure that, when your guiding hand
is withdrawn, your Estate will be efficiently and econom-
ically managed in the best interests of your dependents.
The Company has wide experience in the handling
of Estates of many different kinds—investment, industrial
and pastoral. It has gained the confidence of the public
to such a degree that it has become the largest Trustee
Company in the Southern Hemisphere.
There is a helpful and informative booklet “Your
Executor and Trustee” that describes the services the
Company has to offer and the charges.
’Phone B 0377 or write for a copy to-day .
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £68,000,000.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS: Hon. J. P. ABBOTT; D. R. LYSAGHT-
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director,
A. O. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Sharemarket Steadying
Investors appear to be taking
the view that it is no use get-
ting jittery over war scares; ex-
cept for purely “market” con-
siderations, there is no sense in
selling good shares in key in-
dustrial stocks at “scare” prices,
since money, because of the
financial and political expedi-
ents resorted to in war-time, is
often more vulnerable to war’s
economic ravages than tangible
assets or equities in tangible
assets.
It was shown during and after
World War II that the eventual
effect of war-time inflation was
an apparent appreciation in the
price of most Australian indus-
trial equities. Nearly all good-
quality industrial shares on
Australian ’Changes have risen
in “price” since the beginning of
World War 11. The income to
the investor has not risen in
proportion, but, in view of the
cut in the interest rates on gilt-
edged and first-mortgage securi-
ties, this has been accepted by
investors.
It has not been by any means
a satisfactory position, but there
is no question that the investor
in industrial ordinary shares, on
the average, has fared better
than the holder of Common-
wealth bonds, debentures or
bank deposits over the past 10
years. And that is the correct
cue for investors to take when
considering the present inter-
national situation.
“Value and the Pound”
From A. T. Traversi: Re my
statement that production does
not govern the absolute value of
the pound as judged by what it
will purchase in the" way of gold
or dollars, and that this abso-
lute value can only be affected
by action on the currency, “Erg”
(B. 19/7/’5O) asks whether “U.S.
action on the currency was
responsible for the present de-
mand for U.S. dollars.” The
plain answer is “No.” The pre-
sent demand for U.S. dollars is
the result of our own action on
our own currency, and the
problem is not a dollar problem
at all but is a pound-note prob-
lem. According to Gresham’s
law our bad, or over-valued,
paper currency has been, and is
constantly, driving out both gold
and dollars, leaving us whistling
for their return. If we had a
truly convertible or redeemable
currency we would have no
necessity to whistle for dollars.
This was, in fact, the regular
position for a century prior to
1914, even though we then, as
now, bought more from U.S.A.
than she bought from us.
As regards “A.J.H.,” whose
compliment is appreciated. Dr.
Schacht realised the existence of
“the illusions of seeming wealth
in inflated (irredeemable) paper-
money on a gigantic scale”:
that “stabilisation was only
possible by contraction of the
paper-mark circulation,” and
that a return to the gold standard
was necessary. He achieved this
rapidly under great sectional
opposition, and the miracle of
the mark was under way before
his opposition could get going
properly. Incidentally, he dis-
missed outright the fallacy that
greater production could affect
the real value of the mark.
“A.J.H.” asks who got it in the
neck? Partly, at any rate, it was
those who had got it in the
pocket! The noted economist
Bresciani-Turroni mentions in
his volume on the German infla-
tion that it was the custom of
waiters at a certain stage to an-
nounce to diners: “Gentlemen,
you will be pleased to hear that
another large issue of marks is
to be made.” Dr. Schacht, like
Napoleon, showed that the de-
termined will of one single man
could abolish the irredeemable
paper swindle and attain a sound
money by action on the currency
alone. Many of the other alleged
“causes” vanished upon the ap-
pearance of a sound money like
morning mist before the sun.
wvmvcek
“Do that again and you're fired!”
Apparently we are to wait, like
Germany, until the paper-money
is worthless before reform;
upon action by the many instead
of action by the one.
From Frank H. Beardmore:
“A.J.H.” (B. 19/7/’5O) asks: What
was the action on the German cur-
rency after the first war, what was
its effect, and what section got it in
the neck? •
From memory, I think the date
when the changeover from inflation
to the Ren ten-mark was 23/11/’23.
The old mark was changed by giving
one Renten-mark for one billion of
the old. In Germany, as in Britain,
a billion is a million million. It
made no difference, as one new mark
purchased as much as a billion. As
to who got it in the neck: all
nationals and the foreigners who held
the mark hoping to become billion-
aires.
The miracle was not the change-
over, but the continued fall of the
money. It was a racket. One soon
got to know that it would partly
recover in a short time. The fall
generally was, say, 40 p.c. It .would
then recover part of the fall. Then
out it would go again, then recover.
It went on for four or so years.
The Reichsbank did not actually
lose control, as Schacht knew what
he was doing. Germany, by inflation,
got foreign currency. She gave only
paper for real money. Nationals
who had money in the bank, insur-
ance policies, anything such as cash,
could not buy, after a while, a pinch
of salt with what had been worth
millions of English pounds.
I was trading in German goods,
generally buying retail with paper
money, whereas to buy from makers
meant paying real money. As I
became known the retailers would
accept my cheques. As these reached
my bank they were honored in marks,
I having cover in sterling. I did not
buy marks at the time, but ran large
overdrafts, which I let run for weeks
until I considered it worth while
wiping them out, which was done at
a cost of around 10 p.c. of what
would have been the cost when pur-
chases were made. The effect was
that I paid out a few shillings for
what I sold for several pounds.
The rate one obtained for the
pound varied in every town. Berlin,
where the Reichsbank controlled the
rate, was, at the end, 17i billion to
the pound. In Cologne, 42 billion;
in Bonn, where the French allowed
kerb trading, as high as 55 billion
to the pound. As the French had a
Customs cordon around Rhineland,
one could not buy in Bonn and sell
in Berlin at 200 p.c. profit. The
Berlin rate was the pre-war rate plus
twelve noughts, the pound having
fallen against the dollar.
Moresby Furphies, N.L.
“Lemon”: After an almost
complete silence, extending over
nearly a year and following on
a series of severe setbacks, the
Port Moresby furphy factory
(B. 7/9/’49) has again started
operations. It may be under new
management, as its technique is
altered.
This time it would appear that
the inside information which the
factory claims to possess is so
hush-hush that no details can be
released. On 1 these meagre
grounds, however, orders, stated
to originate in New Guinea, were
placed on the Sydney Stock Ex-
change and had the effect of
hardening Oil Search share
prices, in spite of the fact that
Australasian Petroleum has de-
clared, on more than one occa-
sion, that it would immediately
publish any worth-while news
from its Papuan drilling areas.
Considerable ingenuity was
displayed in launching this latest
furphy, which was so timed that
the first New Guinea orders
reached the Sydney Stock Ex-
change too late for publication
in the Sydney evening papers.
Some Melbourne groups, how-
ever, also began buying, and the
price jumped from 4s. to ss.
As Vacuum and Iranian Oil
are prepared to foot the Papuan
drilling bill without further par-
ticipation by Oil Search, share
prices in that co. should tend to
be steady, and no urge should
be needed to make them readily
saleable at a slight discount. At
the moment Oil Search holds
about an 18.6 per cent, interest
in the A.P. Co. • If that figure is
reduced by lion-contribution by
Oil Search to further A.P. Co.
issues it does not mean any
serious loss to existing share-
holders when oil is struck. It
merely means that there will be
a smaller lump sum to divide on
payday amongst a smaller num-
ber of units than would be the
case if the interest were main-
tained at its present level. If oil
is not struck there will be no
money for anyone, anyway:
Logically, therefore, Oil
Search shares should be valued
at very near parity until com-
mercial oil is struck, when they
will soar; or until the last of an
unbroken series of dry holes is
abandoned, when their value will
be exactly nil.
These facts make the recent
reactions of the stock to furphies
very surprising.
As neither Australasian
Petroleum nor Oil Search have
announced any new develop-
ments in Papua, it may be
assumed that there is none
worthy of report, and, not un-
naturally, Oil Search prices have
now eased.
Australian woollen mills in
1947-48 spun 28 million pounds
of worsted yarn and 23.3 million
pounds of woollen yarn, and
wove an increased quantity of
cloth —41 million square yards.
Total figures for 1948-49 are not
yet available. Monthly totals
for 1949-50 suggest that output
of woollens and worsteds this
year will be smaller than in the
two previous years.


SUCCESS 1
Yes ! “ The Equitable ” can
otfer a plan of assurance that
will make certain his secondary
education and business training,
and give him a good start in his
chosen profession or trade.
Your action now can take much
of the uncertainty from his life.
Call or write to “ The Equitable”
and discuss this urgent and
important matter.
k R. V. PERKINS, General Manager A
m
imOBAU a&rNtRAl
IHSURAHCC CO, LTD,
food Off/ce 37H73 Queen ft, Brisbane
WIH6ELL0 HOUSE, ANOEl PLACE, SYDNEY
3BO COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
a
Li
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
SURFERS* PARADISE, QUEENSLAND
For Sale, Charming River Frontage Home. Unrivalled position on high bank,
with glorious views of River reaches and mountains. Only 350 yards from
surf. Secluded corner position, 66ft. frontage to Pacific Highway and
approx. 112 ft. frontage to River, area 1 rood 38 perches. Three bedrooms,
beautiful living-room with polished floors, open fireplace and clear-glass
observation windows. Built low to ground on brick piers. Very well
furnished, inc. large new refrig., built-in furniture and cupboards. Hot-water
septic system, telephone. This is something really special. Further details
and photographs gladly supplied.
Sole Agents: HARDING SMITH, ARMSTRONG & SPENCER,
Nerang Street, Southport, Queensland.
Phone 302, 327
i
{ .mS
Over palm and pine, at airports all over the world—including
those of Melbourne and Sydney—the green and yellow sign of the BP
Aviation Service stands for speed, courtesy and efficiency. Qantas
Empire Airways and Trans-Australia Air Lines and many other national
airlines are regularly fuelled by
great Service, which has behind
this
it the global resources
and reputation of the
Angio-lranian Oil Company ltd.
SERVICE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL, REFINERIES LTD.. ALL
Telegraphic Address “AIHISEEPEE Melbourne.
STATES.
371-23-tA
SAVE WITH
i:
n
JU
- in first cost •• •
&
mm
A
(ft.
dfg
9
V
Lowest priced 6 cyl. Saloon in Australia is Vauxhall 18 h.p.
Velox. Lowest priced 6 cyl. Tourer is Vauxhall 18 h.p. Caleche.
Lowest priced 12 h.p. car is Vauxhall Wyvern. Yet— Vauxhall
effortlessly outperforms many cars of bigger horsepower an
much higher price.
in running cost. • •
You save in all running and upkeep costs. Many owners
testify that Vauxhall “Velox” gives up to 28 m.p.g. arid
Vauxhall “Wyvern” up to 35 m.p.g., with normal driving at
30 m.p.h. In all ways Vauxhall engineering superiority
reduces upkeep costs in bodies, chassis and engine to a
minimum. Vauxhall O.H.V. engines are low revving so they
pull better, wear less and last much longer.
in sustained value .. •
When, at long last, you change your Vauxhall for a later model,
you will make your final saving. Past experience proves tha
Vauxhalls have uncommonly high resale value because o
their good looks and the great fame of their long life.
as
18 h.p., 6 cyl. Velox
Caleche (Tourer) £620
Saloon (Imp. Pan.) £695 (Cloth Trim)
Saloon (Imp. Pan.) £705 (Leather Trim)
12 h.p., 4 cyl. Wyvern
Caleche (Tourer) £570
Saloon (Imp. Pan - ) £645 (Cloth Trim)
Saloon (Imp. Pan.) £655 (Leather Trim)
All prices plus Sales Tax.
Enquire about the “Air Chief ” built-
for-Vauxhall radio also the con-
venient G.M.A.C. nurchase plan.
mi
•m 2
r— :
GENERAL MOTORS ■ HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
or see your local Authorised Dealer.
Sold a nd Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia.
vn/24
Credit Policy
After freeing well over 50 p.c.
of N.Z. bank advances, Maori-
land’s Reserve Bank is now soft-
pedalling, and says conditions
don’t justify going the whole
distance yet. It’s eight years
since the R.B. took control (1)
by banning any increase in
trading-bank holdings or securi-
ties and leaving them to pay off
gilt-edged stock as it matured,
and (2) by putting an end to
credit expansion for speculation
and for other uses which didn’t
help the war effort. No. 2 group
covered share-dealing, property
purchases, mortgage-repayments,
hire-purchase and other credit
sales and luxury spending. Be-
sides this overdraft limits were
tightened up.
When the post-war spending
spree got going the banks were
under orders not to slacken their
hold but to turn away all
borrowers who wanted -funds to
gamble with or to spend on un-
essentials or on capital projects
when there were other sources
to draw on. In May, 1947, the
R.B. went a step further and
banned advances for out-and-out
investment, for capital spending,
for business, indhstrial and com-
mercial uses, for buying farms
and for building, buying or re-
financing dwellings. Then, too,
it made a move to stop advances
to individuals outside the sterl-
ing area and, if possible, start
an inflow.
Five months ago the bank re-
lented. Advances for terms up
to a couple of years, or to a
limit of £2OOO (increased in May
to £4000) were decontrolled, and
at the end of May farmers were
given access to funds to buy
livestock, farm machinery,
vehicles and implements. Trades-
men were allowed the same
privilege to buy tools, but bank
funds for industrial machinery
remained under ban.
All along the R.B. has tried
to keep up the flow of working
capital for production and trade,
and until the Socialists were
given marching orders it was
pouring in new credit at an
average rate of £2O million to
£3O million yearly for public
spending, which quickly went
round. The Socialists, who
clamped down on credit for
private capital spending, had a
different rule for themselves.
Millions for State houses and
national works came brand-new
from the Reserve Bank, and all
the good from credit-control in
one direction was more than un-
done by draining away the re-
serve value of the currency on
the other. Now Maoriland is
treading the hard road back.
Deposit Rates
N.Z. and Australia have both
been drifting away from bal-
ance between interest-bearing
and non-interest-bearing bank
deposits over the past decade or
so, but the drift has been greater
in Maoriland, where deposits at
call are now £174 million,
against £4O million at interest —
a ratio of nearly 4| to one,
against Australia’s 3i to one.
The growing lopsidedness has
been worrying Maoriland bank-
ing heads, who are trying to
turn off the flow of new money,
but there’s no move yet to make
deposit rates more attractive.
Changes in these rates over 16
years are:
1940
Deposits. 1934. (to Sept.) 1950.
3-months .. ljp.c. |p.c. I p.c.
6-months .. If p.c. H p.c. Hp.c.
12-months .. 2\ p.c. 2} p.c. 1| p.c.
2-years .. 2j p.c. 2\ p.c. 2 p.c'.
The real cut yi interest is
more than the figures show, for
M.L.’s pound has shrunk and
taxes have soared. Savings are
hoarded on deposit, earning
nothing, because holders don’t
think it worth while to tie them
up. New money was poured in
by the Socialists to fill the
yawning gap, and this made it
possible for business to carry on,
but it didn’t go to the root of
the trouble. The Holland Gov-
ernment has drawn in the reins,
but interest rates that don’t
attract remain a barrier between
borrowers and idle funds. With
money so cheap the great
majority of Maorilanders with
funds to spare are indifferent to
lending. Cheapness, therefore,
is a double-edged weapon, and
its gains are illusory. It has been
one of the main spurs to infla-
tion, and borrowers have been
robbed by rising costs and prices
while interest has been pegged
down.
Lately the Reserve Bank has
come out into the open and said
that capital expenditure should
be financed from savings, not by
conjuring-up new money, and
Maorilanders have echoed them
approval. If inflation can be
worked off M.L.’s overvalued
pound will regain some of its
lost internal buying-power and
pressure on the exchange from
the rear should ease off. After
years of paper prosperity the
efficiency of money in N.Z. has
been nearly halved, and real
prosperity wouldn’t suffer by re-
moving some of the surplus.
New Zealand Breweries
Still netting rising profits from
New Zealand’s national bever-
age, Dominion Breweries, Ltd.,
the most prosperous concern in
the industry in Maoriland to-
day, has left its older and bigger
rival, N.Z. Breweries, Ltd., well
behind on profit ratios for
years past. Together the two
cos. have swelled Treasury funds
by more than £4 million in the
latest term (to March 31), as £3
has gone in taxes for every
pound grossed from beer, spirits
and hotels.
It is 14 years since D.B.
reached the div. class, with a
first payment of p.c. in 1936,
after a delicate infancy and early
childhood when its life at times
seemed to hang in the balance.
But once it began to feel its
strength there was no stopping
it.
Today its achievement ranks
as a highlight in N.Z. business.
The war years were a time of I
only brief setback, and when the
storm was past the co. romped
ahead. In the four latest terms
its record has been one of 13
p.c. divs., with a 2 p.c. bonus
thrown in a couple of years
ago, growing surpluses and
snowballing reserves until back-
log funds have mounted to
£466,327, more than covering its
£450,000 capital. When gross
returns showed signs of levelling
out from 1948 onwards the
executive accepted this as a chal-
lenge to managerial skill, and by
energetic measures kept profits
headed in the right direction.
Here’s the post-war trend:
Net
Mar., Profit. Divs., Reserves.
\ £ p.c. £
1546 .. 50,217 *l2s 167,661
1947 .. 66,574 13 4223,734
1948 .. 76,229 *l5 4314,958
1949 .. 77,391 13 4366,306
1950 .. 83,521 13 466,327
* Including 2i p.c. peace bonus in
1946 and a special 2 p.c. bonus in
1948.
4 Including £25,000 from taxation
reserve in 1947 and share-premiums
in 1948 and 1949.
Like other MX. brewery cos.,
D.B. is taking a holiday from
capital-spending at the moment
and hoping that costs, which
don’t seem to have reached the
peak yet, might turn in its
favor. It will need all its funds,
and more, for hotel-construction
when it launches out.
Results for N.Z.8., Ltd., have
been on a lower plane since the
1947 peak, and its div. has
dropped back from 10 p.c. to
8$ p.c., which errs about $ p.c.
on the safe side. The slow rise
in reserves has allowed D. 8.,
with only a little more than a
quarter as much capital, to over-
shadow it.
N.Z. Breweries’ post - war
scoreboard is:
Mar. Net Re-
-31, Profit. Divs., serves.
£ p.c. £
1946 .. 139,387 8f 273,558
1947 .. 192,139 10 337.159
1948 .. 161,113 10 334,734
1949 .. 145,982 8* 341,709
1950 .. 152,728 8* 370,431
Reserves include insurance fund.


Women’s letters
From Sydney
The ordinary capacity of Prince's,
about 350 people, was strained to the last
inch of floor-space as well as virtually the
last chair and cup by the 450 women
who turned up to the fashion-parade
staged there by the junior social com-
mittee of the N.S.W. Deaf, Dumb and
Blind Institute. • Waiters were rushing in
every direction with extra chairs, and
miraculously all were finally seated and
able to enjoy their afternoon-tea to the
accompaniment of a rush display of new
season’s fashions modelled by glamorous
girls. The three lone men in the gather-
ing were rewarded for their hardihood
with a preview of swimsuits and beach-
wear. The display, which included
casuals, luncheon-, afternoon-, race- and
evening-frocks, were all Australian-made
and featured a number of new ahd attrac-
tive ideas. Black linens for casual wear,
relieved with bold straw embroidery on
the circular flared skirt, can be recom-
mended unreservedly for youthful blondes,
and a cream pleated linen outlined at
neck, sleeves and pockets with cut-work
embroidery would be a welcome addition
to most wardrobes.
Becoming features of the new fashions
are pleating from yoke to hem belted
widely at the waist, the new slightly-
shorter length, and the negligible sleeve
finished with pointed cuff, almost at
shoulder-line. Organiser of the display,
Mrs. Frank Dunworth, who is vice-presi-
dent of the junior committee, worked so
hard dealing with the outsized roll-up
‘that she was unable to see any of the
parade herself. The interested group at
her table included Mrs. Dick Francis,
Mrs. John Herlihy, Mrs. Tom Mackinson,
Mrs. P. J. Dunworth and Miss Betty Cox.
Another large party brought by Mrs. W.
A. Browning, of Bellevue Hill, was
arranged in honor of Mrs. Jerry
O’Shaughnessy, who, accompanied by her
two daughters, is leaving shortly for Eng-
land. The committee put their best foot
forward and helped with selling pro-
grammes, which bore lucky numbers.
One member, Diane Greave, even did a
turn as a mannequin, wearing the coat
which Mrs. Dunworth’s father, Mr. F.
W. Nelson, donated as a prize in the
guessing competition.
Queensland - born artist Douglas
Annand and Mrs. Annand are off this
month in Orontes for England. Douglas
has another plump commission from the
Orient Company for murals and what-
not, this time for the restaurant lounge
of the new Oronsay. The new mural
processes are interesting. No longer does
the mural painter prepare just sufficient
plaster-wall for his day’s work, painting
feverishly to cover the area of damp
plaster before it dries out. These interior
murals will be done on a special kind of
thin paper to be incorporated in a new
plastic sheeting, which not only gives
great brilliance to the work but renders
the colors permanent and the walls wash-
able. A couple of years ago this artist
painted a big kangaroo-hunt mural for
the sister-ship Orcades. The Annands
will voyage back next March in Oronsay
on her maiden trip, thereby providing
Douglas with an opportunity not only to
live with his completed work for a month
or more but also to enjoy first-hand
criticism from fellow-passengers.
The committee of the Lady Mayoress’s
Relief Fund met during the week in her
rooms at the Town Hall to discuss plans
for the coming ball, which will be held
at the Town Hall on September 21. It’s
going to be quite a night. Eleven debs,
will be presented by Mrs. W. K. Tapp,
to the Governor-General and Mrs. W. J.
McKell, Military escorts in regimental
scarlet will be provided for these girls
by Lieut-General F. H. Berryman. Vari-
ous functions are being arranged to help
defray the expenses of the ball so that
most of the proceeds will be free for the
Relief Fund, On September 7 Mrs. Max-
well Little will talk on needlework,
illustrating her subject with a display of
rare needlework in her possession, which
will be well worth seeing. She has, for
example, a stump-work picture 300 years
old, probably the only piece of this Stuart
embroidery that many will ever have a
chance to see. It is believed that only
two pieces are in the country, and even
in England it is usually necessary to go
to one of the bigger museums to see a
piece. This exhibit was made in the
reign of Charles I and Henrietta Maria.
Much of the work to be displayed came
to this country with Mrs. Maxwell Little’s
mother, and includes some eighteenth-
century needlework pictures. Mrs. Max-
well Little is a skilled needlewoman her-
self, as was her mother. Apart from
some portieres, which will be shown on
screens, the exhibits will be carried round
on trays by Lady Barker, Mrs, Murray
Harding, Mrs. Hope Gibson and Mrs. M.
L. Cox, so that a close-up view may be
obtained. In addition there will be a
musical item, and a display of spring
millinery by Matthew and James Mo
Dougall.
Congratulations and farewells have
been pouring in from all sides to Dr.
Grace Cuthbert, Director of Maternal and
Infant Welfare in N.S.W., Lecturer to
the School of Public Health and Preven-
tive Medicine, president of the Australian
Federation of Medical Women and con-
venor of the Standing Committee on
Health for the Australian Council of
Women. Leaving tomorrow in Aorangi
for America, Britain and Scandinavia to
make studies in administration and ser-
vices in maternal and child health, Dr.
Cuthbert expects to be away about eight
months. Reason for both the trip and
congratulations: she has been awarded a
travelling fellowship by the World Health
Organisation of the United Nations.
After a prolonged absence abroad
Laurel Mather is making her first appear-
ance again on the Sydney stage tonight
in the title role of “La Parisienne,” the
new play being produced by Doris Fitton
at the Independent. She and Ivor Brom-
ley, the leading man, who plays La
Parisienne’s lover, are scarcely strangers ;
they played opposite one another in the
radio serial “Hearts and Diamonds.” On
her return from overseas last year this
lass was seen in the leading role in
Priestley’s “Ever Since Paradise,” staged
in Melbourne. A feature of this present
production is the period costume which
provides Laurel with some very engaging
garments.
A steady flow of interested people have
been to the Grosvenor Galleries to see
Lance Solomon’s exhibition of paintings.
Rear-Admiral and Mrs.. H. A. Showers
called in, accompanied by daughter
Barbara, who is continuing, with her arts
course at Sydney University. Well-known
collector Dr. George Elliott came with his
wife, and Mr. and Mrs. William Borland,
who are living at Gladswood until their
house is built, showed keen interest in
the show. Mrs. Reginald Cox, down
from Leura, made time to look in, and
Mrs. Norman Lindsay and Mrs. John
Cripple were among others noticed
browsing among the exhibits.
The Bellevue Hill branch of the
C.W.A. had a fifth-birthday party last
week in the form of a musicale with
afternoon tea, Mrs. G. Selkirk, treasurer,
made and donated the handsome
birthday-cake, which was cut by the
guest-of-honor, Miss Elizabeth Northcott.
Another expected guest, Mrs. J. M.
Gordon, State president of C.W.A.,.was
unfortunately seriously ill in Jenner
Hospital, to the great regret of assembled
members. The president of the branch,
Mrs. S. D. Herring, received the guests,
who included Mrs. E. B. Swenson, group
president and representative on the
executive council, Mrs. Colin Venn, Mrs.
C. Munro, Mrs. C, D. Porter, Mrs. B.
Pulver, Mrs, J. M. Hamilton, of Illabo,
and Miss Doris Fox, of Narrabri.
Victims of the flood areas will benefit
from part of the proceeds of the party,
and C.W.A. has also offered accommoda-
tion at Keira House to 45 mothers and
children among the homeless in the
flooded districts.
Manfred Clynes, returned from three
years’ study overseas, will give his first
Sydney Town Hall concert on August 19.
A brilliant young pianist (he will be 24
a few days before the concert), he pub-
lished his first musical composition in
Budapest at the age of seven. He has,
of course, a musical background m his
family. His mother was a singer, u -
Marcelle Clynes, his father, is a well-
known naval architect and brot ,her to
Professor Max Klein, for years attached
to the Academy of Vienna. Settled no
New York, Max numbers, among ms
pupils members of the Metropolitan
Opera House. The most famous of these,
Elene Nikolaides, the Grecian soprano,
has appeared recently at the Mel.
Abroad, Manfred lived for some time at
Wrightwood, California, which is 70auit.
up in the ski-country and about 90 miles
from Los Angeles. There the only
neighbor he had to share his solitude was
Aldous Huxley, who used to come over
from his own little log-cabin to sit an
listen to the musician steadily practising,
and often go after an hour or so without
exchanging more than a word.
M .. .
From Melbourne
Guests were delighted when, at the
Lord Mayoral reception given in her
honor, Strella Wilson sang for them, but
there was disappointment that the Lady
Mayoress, through illness, was unable to
be present. In handing the guest-of-
-1 honor a token of appreciation from
Melbourne friends the Lord Mayor paid
tribute to the work she had done in
organising concerts and singing for the
troops in many places during and after
the war. Lady Angliss, who had been
associated with Strella on many patriotic
appeals, also added her measure of
praise. Strella’s black ensemble had a
silver-fox collar, and her upswept black
felt hat was worn off the face. Black was
chosen also by Lady Angliss. Under a
dyed ermine coat Mrs. Ross Grey Smith
wore a black frock ; her matching hat
was coq-feather trimmed. Mrs. Norman
Robinson’s hip-length rust-dyed ermine
coat covered a black frock; ospreys
trimmed her small black velvet hat. Mrs.
Bowen Pain combined black-and-pink
chevron-tweed coat and plumed brown
felt cloche hat. Reta Findlay wore a
primrose flower-hat with a short ermine
coat and black frock. A black Persian-
lamb jacket, black frock and wide-
brimmed black hat were the choice of
Mrs. W. L. Russell Clarke. Mrs. A. E.
Kimpton’s saxe-blue frock was trimmed
with opalescent beads.
Margot Price is one of four leading
American mannequins who are here to
give a series of parades in which they will
display the creation of American de-
signers. Margot, slim and tall, is a charm-
ing and vivacious brunette. She was
born in New Jersey, but says she was
“raised in New York.” Her husband is
a television-producer. Margot is under
contract to the famous Elizabeth Arden,
and so can be treated as an authority
when she says “Australian girls have the
loveliest complexions and should be told
so.”
Ancient Romans with net and trident,
doubleted and hosed Elizabethans with
sword and dagger, pirates with cutlass
and torch, Regency bloods with rapiers
and wild Scottish clansmen with clay-
mores —these all went unbloodily into
action at the Town Hall. The Duelling
Through the Ages exhibition was pre-
sented by the Victorian Amateur Fencing
Association in aid Sf Y.W.C.A. funds.
Perhaps the most interesting was the duel
between two 18th-century “gentlemen”
who fought for a lady’s hand ; they were
Mrs, Betty Stokes and Doris Suttle, both
champion fencers. A fencing lesson was
also given by Cynthia Letts to Lee,
Cherry and Robin Edelston. Lee was
the youngest performer, only as tall as
his foil and eight years old. Front-of-
the-house arrangements were in the hands
of the Toorak auxiliary to Y.W.C.A.
Mesdames Ivan Holyman and Bryan
Foster and Joyce Trulove were in charge
of the sweets, and they were assisted by
Jeanette Scoff, Meryl Foster and Joan
Duckett. Enid Dentry, who took charge
of the programmes, had ten Scotch Col-
lege boys for assistants. In the audience
was the president of the Y.W.C.A.
appeal and members of her committee.
The invasion of the city by country-
women, trimly tailored in tweeds, was
evidence that the Australian Sheep
Breeders’ Association Show at New-
market was in full swing. One of the
features of the show was the number of
young girls, dressed for the part, who
held their entries for the judges. Mrs.
John Kelly came from Caramut, and her
spectator suit was of vivid green corduroy
velvet worn with a navy grosgrain hat.
Among those who sported the popular
grey suits were an attractive trio com-
prising Mrs. Charles Mackinnon, of
Strathdownie, Mrs. M. Hurrey, from
Dunkeld, and Mrs. H. Moody, from
Grassmere. Mrs. Arthur Gubbins, of
Chatsworth, set off her grey suit with a
winter-white felt bat and gloves. Her
daughter Judyth was also in grey. Mrs.
P. W. Coy, of Woorndoo, contrasted her
grey suit with a raspberry-red felt hat
Tasmanian visitors included the John
Fosters from Pleasant Banks, who
brought daughters Pauline and Valerest.
Mrs. A- E. Kinsela, of Comelybanks
Studs, Cora Lynn, was among the suc-
cessful exhibitors; her Southdown ewes
won a champion, reserve-champion and
a second. The Alex Russells, of Mawal-
lok, Beaufort, who were exhibiting
Merinos, were with their son and
daugfiter-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Phillip
Russell.
Two pretty American mannequins
dressed in frontier clothes comprising
slacks, fringed jackets and wide-brimmed
grey-felt hats rushed whooping down the
runway flourishing imitation guns and so
opened the 1950 American fashion
parade. Staged in the strikingly-
decorated Mural Hall of the Myer Em-
porium, the premiere was for the Queen
Victoria Memorial Hospital. Ken Myer
introduced U.S. Consul-General S. J.
Fletcher, who was brief but witty in
speech. Mrs. H. R. Hamer, who in the
absence abroad of Lady Brookes is acting-
president of the Q.V. Hospital, wore a
soft mushroom-pink crepe grown and a
blue fox jacket. Mrs. R. G. Menzies’s
taffetas were checked in two shades of
grey, with a gold thread outlining the
checks. Her daughter Heather’s gown
of heavenly r blue organza had a full skirt,
the bodice being of matching Chantilly
lace. Pink-shaded flowers embellished the
deep rounded neckline of the pencil-slim
pale-pink gown worn by Mrs. S. J.
Fletcher. Mrs. Ken Myer’s Chinese jacket
of gaily-checked taffeta went with a slim
black crepe skirt. Silver sequins were
massed on the bodice of Mrs. Harold
Rabling’s full-skirted dove-grey crepe
gown. Mrs. T. J. Dowd’s silver-grey
satins were finished with silver sequins.
Mannequins, American and Australian,
made their appearances in styles which,
although American-inspired, are ideal for
women of this climate. In this collection
skirts are shorter, and jackets of suits
still show r the nipped-in waistline. The
box jacket-suit was spectacular ; one, with
the jacket in large blue-and-white checks,
had a shawl collar and double-breasted
front, and was allied to a pencil-slim
navy skirt and tiny matching clothe of
smooth straw. Similar checked material
was used to make an unusual cape and
waistcoat worn with a narrow navy skirt.
Another lovely ensemble featured a
Chinese-blue shantung loose-fitting coat
lined with jade-green silk. Real purses
were used for pockets on a simple grey
raincoat topped by a matching sou’-wester.
Over one dress of white Alenqon lace was
a garnet-red surah coat with cavalier
sleeves. Evening-gowns have been created
for the Grand Entrance. There are layers
of tulle, yards of lace in tiny ruffles,
organdies are embroidered and chiffons
covered with sequins. But not all the
evening-gowns were of such grandeur. A
dumber were short, and one featured a
skirt which fell softly into handkerchief-
points. A short Stop Red chiffon gown
from the house of Elizabeth Arden was
worn with a shawl edged with matching
leathers, and shoes of satin were in the
same glowing shade. Over a full-length
strapless gown of black taffeta was worn
a flowing redingote of black-spotted net
with full-length fitting sleeves.
, as been used extensively for
both day and night wear. On one short
white chiffon gown a trail of pink Cecil
Brunner roses and touches of rhinestones
made decorative notes. A tulip-printed
white organza ball-gown had a volumin-
ous skirt made over a taffeta quilted
petticoat, and tulip clusters were appliqudd
Ol u- l stra P ess t°P- Two floating panels,
w ich could be twisted into a stole, were
eaturedj on a white silk organza which
had an imprint of pink, green and mauve


“Keep in
Good Spirits”
df
BRANDY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lobbed in Sydney by air from London
j a st week, 43-year-old Brian Maegraith,
who writes professor before his name and
M.A., M. 8., B.Sc., D.Phil. after it. He
first appeared on this page back in 1930
when he was a 23-year-old selected as
S, Australia’s Rhodes Scholar; he had
just got his MB. and B.Sc. degrees. He
broke into his medical course 18 months
earlier to go with an expedition to Cen-
tralia, where he made tests of Binghi’s
blood-pressure. Going to Oxford to chase
up physiology, he caught up with that and
kindred subjects so thoroughly that he’s
been lecturer in pathology at Oxford,
Dean of its Faculty of Medicine, in charge
of a War II Army Research council
probing malaria, and is now, as Professor
of Tropical Medicine at Liverpool Uni-
versity, Britain’s 'top-flight authority on
the subject. He still finds time for the
astronomy he adopted as a hobby.
By the same plane, here to finalise
plans for the John Curtin School of
Medical Research, knight Howard Florey,
also S. Australian Rhodes Scholar (1921),
Professor of Pathology at Oxford for the
past 15 years and owner of a drawful of
medical medals and prizes, among them
a share of the Nobel Prize for Medicine
of 1945. Among medicoes the name
Florey is synonymous with penicillin.
If Dr. Serge Udovikoff, the New Aus-
tralian doctor with appendicitis on Heard
Island, had operated on himself, he would
not have been the first to do it. Captain
Robert Kerr McLaren, a veterinary
surgeon, of Bundaberg (Q.), joined a
band of guerrillas in Malaya after escap-
ing from Changi jail, and with them
in the jungle was faced with the
alternatives of dying or removing his
own appendix. He told a Malay how to
go about it, submitted himself to the
operation and directed proceedings by
watching the native’s movements in a set
of mirrors. An ordinary knife was the
only apparatus. General Lavarack,
decorating him with M.C. and Bar, said
he deserved the V.C.
David Rowbotham’s tribute:
Wolfe Fairbridge (B. 19/7/’5O) endowed his
poetry with the same precision he brought to
his job as scientist for C.5.1.R.0., and his
cultured and distinctive reading voice impressed
upon all who joined the Sunday groups which
migrated to his Caringbah home for good wine
and poetry at weekends, the clarity of his own
vision and the notability of his own verse, most
of which, with the exception of pieces published
in “Southerly,” exists only in MSS. It is
gratifying to hear that a collection is to be
published under the Commonwealth Literary
Fund. Indefatigable, he gave great energy to
his job, poetry, friends and to his home, which
he consecrated with one of the finest of his
poems, published in the latest edition of
“Southerly.” X plead space to quote the first
two stanzas:
House, you are done . . .
And now before
The high contracting parties take
Final possession, let us stand
Silent for this occasion at the door,
Who here a lifelong compact make:
That you were not for trading planned.
Since barter wears the object poor,
But are henceforth our living stake
—And hereunto we set our hand.
Be over us, be strong, be sure.
You may not keep from world alarms,
But from the daily wind and rain
Of guessed, or real, or of imagined wrong
Shadow us between your arms;
Be our sincere affection, and maintain
A corner here for art and song;
Yet no mere image of benumbing calms.
But a bold premiss, where the wind may gain
Purchase for adventurous journeys long.
Be round us, and protect from harms.
Fairbridge was educated at Christ’s Hospital,
England, and on the Continent, and was an
M.Sc. graduate of the University of West
Australiaf His father was Kingsley Fairbridge,
Rhodes Scholar and founder of the Fairbridge
Farm Schools. - What Australian literature has
lost will be made manifest when the promise
and achievement of his* poetry is given the
much wider audience it deserves.
Crossing to Canberra as M.L. High
Commissioner, George Edwin Alderton,
an Auckland lawyer. Thomas Charles
Uislop, another legal light and ex-Mayor
of Wellington (M.L.), goes to a similar
post in Canada.
With his “Kangaroo Hunt” mural
already in the Orient Line’s Orcades,
Douglas Annand leaves for England this
month to execute another aid-to-digestion
in the brand-new Oronsay’s restaurant-
lounge. The work will be done on a
special, very thin paper to be incor-
porated in a new kind of plastic sheet-
ing which gives a brilliant effect, is color-
fast and allows washing-down. A
Bananalander, Annand executed the
designs on some of our coinage, was prin-
cipal designer for the Australian section
of the New York World Fair and con-
tributed several murals to a like show in
Wellington (M.L.) in 1939. He water-
colors as well.
Horace Flower, who, at 63, has just
given up the job of assistant g.m. with the
Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-op.,
has a family background in the Aus-
tralian wool industry that goes back to
1838, when his grandfather landed in
Sydney to join a brother in the wool
business. Horace Flower started work
in the Q.N. Bank in 1903, went away
with the A.I-F. (20th Battalion) in
1916, and came to the “Primaries” in
1927 as secretary. He joined the Brisbane
Legacy Club in 1928, and has been a
staunch member of that fine body.
Prior began his victimisation of Cap-
tain Patrick Gordon Taylor, G.C., M.C.,
a few thousand feet above Newcastle in
the Port Macquarie Clipper - Sunder-
land ; air-currents compelled its comple-
tion at moorings on the flood-swollen
Hastings River. Keen, with eyes deep-
set and quick, like a seaman’s, and with a
good cutting edge to it from the brows
down, the face belongs to a top-flight
airman to whom the shear of wind past
a streamlined bow and the pressure on
ear-drums of high-altitude living have
been the principal sounds and feelings of
his life. His experience includes a term
with the R.F.C. in War I, co-pilot with
Kingsford Smith in the 1934 Pacific
crossing, Australian Government repre-
sentative in the flying-boat Cuba on the
first air-crossing and survey-flight of the
Indian Ocean, piloting N.E.l.’s former
Governor, van Mook, across the Pacific
and back in 1942, and several other re-
markably accurate long - range solo
flights. And he captained the Catalina
which pioneered a War II route for the
R.A.F. across-Pacific from Mexico to
Rose Bay, out of which came the very
VALPARAISO AHEAD.
readable bbok Forgotten Island, his fifth.
Now this restless air-bird is busy super-
vising the fitting-out of another Catalina
which he’ll take-off in Sydney and land in
Valparaiso, touching Suva, Tahiti, Man-
gareya and Easter Island en route.
Among other advantages, this pioneer
flight will bring South America within a
few days of Australia. Also, of course,
it will pioneer an alternative route be-
tween here and the U.S. in the event of
present trouble endangering North
Pacific routes. More power to his
throttle!
Herewith, by Mcßeath, an Australian
who can’t remember missing a Bulletin
and who is so keen to possess a “Thank
Heavens That’s Paid” cheque that once
he tried to bribe one from “Bellerive” —
Sydney Keith Menzies, born at Jeparit
(Vic.) 45 years back and put early to
the hardware trade. But an ample share
of the tenacity and business sagacity of
his race drove him to learn enough about
iron and steel, what makes the stuff and
how it’s come by, to win him the post of
Director of Production for the Ministry
of Munitions at the beginning of the
Hitler disturbance, as well as chief of
staff to Essington Lewis. Now back to
his first love as g.-m. of a big Melbourne
MAN OF IRONWARE.
hardware firm, and a prominent member
of the Savage Club, he still hopes one
day to land a Bulletin cheque; from
an artistic effort shown recently to Mc-
Beath it looks as though it will have
to come through poetry. Bob’s his
brother.
“Macnell”: Driving to Korea the
355 ft., 44,000-horsepower, six
4.7’5, twin 4in. and quadruple tubes
which sail under the name of H.M.A.
destroyer Warramunga is the lean, sea-
and-wind conditioned, sharp-faced length
which sails under the name of Com-
mander Otto Becher, one-time executive-
officer of carrier Sydney. Hailing from
the West, 24 years at sea, the ddstroyer-
driver is a gunnery expert who carries a
War II D.S.C. and Bar, When Churchill
mobilised the British Fleets, Becher was
Squadron Gunnery Officer in cruiser
Devonshire, his first decoration
for the efficiency with which he directed
her Sin. slams in support of troops with-
drawing from Namsos. He knows his
destroyers—nearly two years as flotilla
gunnery-jack in Australian Napier, fol-
lowed by command of Quickmatch. He
sailed Quickmatch to Sabang with Somer-
ville’s Eastern Battle Fleet in 1944,
screened the heavies while they poured a
deluge of 15in. shells on Jap wharves,
dockyards, hangars and radio-stations;
then, with Quilliam and the Dutchman
Tromp, Quickmatch raced right into the
battery-flanked harbor and had her
close-range fling. For this, Bar to the
D.S.C. Becher’s new ship (he joined last
Friday), whose quick-firing twin mount-
ings, throwing a 451 b. shell over 2000 ft.
per second, fit her well for shore-
bombardment, can be depended upon to
give a healthy account of herself.
Few men know more of transport
difficulties in Westralia’s outback than
Chief Railways Traffic Manager Oliver
Watson, just scored a half-century of
learning about ’em. Joining as a cleri-
cal cadet the office he now bosses, Wat-
son’s ensuing experience took in traffic-
superintending at Geraldton, Northam,
Merredin and Bunbury, as well as the
same job in the metropolitan area ; be-
fore taking over his present post he had
a period as assistant-commissioner.
Keeping outdated rolling-stock rolling
and handling with it increased freight
has needed all his experience—he
backs it with an unfailing good nature.
The antithesis of office-bound, a man
who has always gone to the end of the
line to see for himself, he retires a few
months hence.
Sir Alan Herbert, the English Parlia-
mentarian and humorist, won’t be making
his first visit to Australia when he comes
here this year on a lecturing tour for the
British Council. When he was plain A.
P. Herbert he dropped in one morning
at the old Bulletin office, in Sydney, and
after searching the building from top to
bottom found one lone scribe sitting at
his desk —the rest may have been out for
lunch or over the road or something—
and his comment was: “How like
‘Punch.’ ” He told the staff man that one
of his principal reasons for coming to
Australia was to meet the men who hit
so hard in Bulletin comment, especially
the cartoonists. The “Punch” cartoonists,
he said sadly, were much politer. The
author of Misleading Cases, and a variety
of others, was born in 1890 and educated
at Oxford. He served on Gallipoli,
joined “Punch” as a regular in 1924,
took his wit into Parliament in 1935, and
joined the Naval Auxiliary Patrol in 1940,
petty officer and, records Who’s Who, two
good-conduct badges.
Robert S. Close’s book in play form,
Love Me, Sailor, which was put on as
a tent-show in Sydney last year, has
been taken up by Ben Fuller, who will
stage it at the Princess, Melbourne, next
Easter. If the Australian production is a
success it will go to London. Close’s book
has been accepted for publication by
Richard Fell, of New York, who made
the extraordinary advance on royalties of
£l5OO, the highest he has ever paid to
any author. His usual figure is 250
dollars.
Passed on in Adelaide, at 88, Harry
Blinman, committee member of the S.
Australian Cricket Association for half
a century and president for the past 10
years, friend of Bradman and fine
cricketer himself. A last link with the
early cricket of his State, he represented
it against Victoria in 1881, and in the
first match against N.S.W. in 1890.
Altogether he played for S. Australia in
40 inter-State matches. Bowls were his
business as well —one 7 time president of
the S.A. Bowling Association and, in 1925,
winner of the championship. On the
serious side the fine old sportsman had
been Under-Secretary, Premier’s Secre-
tary and Clerk of the Executive Council
from 1916 to 1931, when he retired. Two
of his big jobs in that time were organis-
ing the visits of the Prince of Wales in
1920 and of the present King and Queen
seven years later. The King honored him
twice —with M.V.O. and 1.5.0.
Into the Silence: —■
In Sydney, at 73, Norman White, born in
Hobart and for years a front-rank mason and
businessman in Brisbane. Business manager of
the “Daily Mail” in 1915, managing-director
three years later, he crossed with his paper to
the “Courier-Mail” in 1933, also managing-
director, and held that post till ire resigned in
1937. He later held directorships in several
Sydney companies.
In Auckland (M.L.), at 62, Vivian Claude
Walsh, who made the first flight in M.L.
(1910). With brother Leo he founded a flying
training school, and designed and constructed
' the first flying-boat in the southern hemisphere,
which made a flight on New Year’s Day, 1915.
Out of the Walsh flying-school emerged a great
team of the young aviators who flew against
the Kaiser.
In Melbourne, at 80, Frank Roche, a cycling
and motoring pioneer who bought his first car
in 1899 and established an Australian record try
driving for 50 years. One of the first to import
cycles, he was one of the few heroes who suc-
cessfully rode the famous Eiffel Tower bone-
shaker. In 1912 he became managing-director
of the Tarrant Motor Co., which imported the
first T-model Ford.
In Coonamble (N.S.W.), Timothy Lawrence
Keady. A native of Victoria, he was in
Coonamble for 38 years, and was stock and
station agent, valuer, auctioneer, hospital
director, Law Board member, as well as guide,
philosopher and friend to all, especially the poor.
At Hawthorn (Vic.), at 88, Charles Miscamble,
in his day Chief Traffic Manager for Victorian
Railways, and later Commissioner in both
Victoria and Tasmania. Born at Bendigo, he
was in the signal-box at Flinders-street when
there were only two sets of rails.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Shirley McKay, well
known as a Ballarat social-worker. She was
one of the committee which established the
Musica Viva concerts in Melbourne.
At Busselton (W.A.), at 82, Frederick Bussell
Vines, grandson of pioneer John Bussell and
gold-seeker in the heyday of Coolgardie. He
spent his last years at the old family home and
local landmark, “Cattle Chosen.”


VENUS VERSUS PALLAS
by ETHEL ANDERSON
/*1 PICNIC was to celebrate Miss
/H Aminta Wirraway’s seventeenth
| birthday, chiefly because it was the
one form of entertainme.. r certain
to be eschewed by “the aged.”
“Though I do not call people really
old until they take their baths with the
door open,” Victoria McMurthie had
observed, “people begin to be elderly
when they look thoughtful after eating
apple-dumplings”
“Or when they refuse toffee”- —-
“Speak when you are spoken to,
Alberteena McMurthie! ” Victoria
silenced her younger sister, and continued.
“But though we are not old we will leave
our bathing-dreSses behind. Why
should we suddenly become stand-
offish with each other when we have
shared a hot tub every Saturday night
until just lately?”
“And when Donalbain (who is four)
thinks nothing of coming into the nursery
to borrow the soap?”
“Alberteena! How often must I tell
you, speech is silver, silence is gold?”
Victoria again quenched her sister. “So
why be squeamish?” she added, and
before climbing into her place in the
buckboard, she hid nine voluminous sets
of garments, made of many yards of
serge and decorated with white Vandyked
braid, behind the hedge.
THE rectory buckboard, an unwired
aviary filled with chirping girls, and
drawn with cloppy animation by “old”
Ruby (who rising two), then set off,
to creak, to hesitate, to side-slip in the
ruts of the sandy track that led from
Mallow’s Marsh to Lanterloo Bay.
The road was often repaired with
bridgings of wattle saplings laced to-
gether with rope or vines, yet over the
creeks there were no bridges ; these had
to be forded with a great splashing of
water and many shrieks of excitement.
However, Juliet McCree was a dashing
whip—she brought her gay passengers
safely to the harbor’s rim.
And in Lanterloo Bay, the sand's
golden half-moon, the calm yet mettle-
some hiss of the placid sea, the entirely
conventional sky—how charming!
Lying after her dip to dry her pliant
body in the warm, down-soft sand, each
girl paid tribute to its beauty.
“Such a blue sky, such a radiant sea,
not a cloud, not a wave,, not a wrinkle
on the water.” For once Alberteena was
allowed her say.
“The sea is darker than the sky.”
“Where we lie, above high-tide mark,
the sand is as fine as icing-sugar, and it
is never covered with seaweed or shells.”
“What I like best is the smell of the
umbrella-fern coming from that creek.”
“The sea smells of lobster.” Juliet
McCree, as usual, was seeking after
truth. She sniffed with a scientific expres-
sion on her glowing face, the hardly-
stirring waves that lapped her young,
sunlit body, which from top to toe
rivalled a ripe apricot in color.
“Juliet!” Aminta felt it necessary to
assert her age. Shielding her flawless
complexion with a minute, hinged parasol
(its ivory stick chaperoned by a tell-tale
silver bell), she lay, more beautiful than
any Venus known to art, among the
castles of sand Alberteena, Gussie and
Octavia had built round her. “Juliet!
Come out! You have been in the water
long enough.”
“Oh, no, I can’t yet! The « r ater is so
delicious, and I want
to find out what it
really smells of?
Sometimes it has a
queer almost
like a noise, and
other times it has a
whiff like Grand-
mama McCree’s
white camellia.”
“Whose pink
lawn handkerchief is
this?”
“Mine, dear.”
“Tie it round your
wrist.”
“Across the harbor
Sydney begins to
look quite like a real
city, doesn’t it?
There’s St. James’ spire—such an elegant
candle-snuffer! ”
“So many lovely sailing-ships, too! I
like them best like that, with all their
sails set, drying in the sun, and all re-
flected in the water, as they just swing in
with the tide.”
< ‘ P) R. PHANTOM does not really care
' for women.”
Gussie Wirraway had a younger sister's
uncomfortable habit of introducing an
unwanted subject.
“What a pity!” Victoria McMurthie
became worldly. “He’s the only eligible
bachelor between Mallow’s Marsh and
Hornsby.”
“His three brothers all made such good
matches.” Gussie was not to be out-
done. Sitting on a sand-castle she
searched, like “The Spinario,” for a thorn
in a pink toe.
“Simeon married ten thousand pounds
in bonds,” Victoria remarked, still in
her role of woman-of-the-world.
“And the handsomest set of buck-teeth
this side of the equator.”
“Ninian, the second boy, married
twenty thousand acres”
“More teeth, dear?”
“No, Goosie - Gussie! A-c-r-e-s!
Covered with sheep, in Victoria.”
“And three sets of twins!”
“Septimus, the third brother (what a
cheat Mrs. Phantom was calling her
third son Septimus!)—well, he married a
line of South-sea whalers”
“An’d a whale of a wife.”
“No, dear, she was a minnow, a gold-
fish, merely. I was a bridesmaid at the
wedding.” Aminta sadly roused herself
from a reverie.
“My dears,” Victoria evaded contact
with a flowering wattle branch which
Alberteena was using to brush off sand,
“they all married Prosperity.”
“Yes! And look at them! Ninian, at
thirty, with a barouche, a gig, five saddle-
horses, a Crcfwn Derby dinner service
with covers for forty, a tolerably hand-
some residence on Point Piper—right in
the bush, really”
“And the intolerable bathos of three
sets of twins!”
“And Simeon, dear man. I’m very
fond of Simeon, so rich, such a hand-
some property, two thousand Merinoes,
a thousand-head of cattle, all within a
day’s ride of”
“The nearest glass of rum!”
“And with a shambling progeny of
fourteen daughters, and a face, pock-
marked with henpecks”——
*‘P)R. PHANTOM cares for nothing
but sport.”
“Yes! The minute
he’s free, off he goes
on that sawny sorrel
brute of his, and sur-
rounded by all those
curs, pariahs, dingoes,
collies, kelpies!
‘Yap, yap, yap!
Bow-wow-wow! ’ Oh
the din; oh the
clatter! They woke
me up at four o’clock
this morning!”
“Where does he
go?”
“Most often to
that old inn, the
Devil’s Tail at Dog-
gett’s Patch, about
fourteen miles past
Windsor, out by the
Hawkesbury River.”
“He goes to shoot
wallabies or
dingoes.”
“No one believes
he really goes to
shoot.”
“Oh, keep away,
Juliet! Keep away!
If you shake yourself so near us you’ll
make us all wet again, and we are just
drying nicely
Such was the chorus that greeted the
radiant Juliet, who ran, at last, out of the
water, to pirouette and stamp, to squeeze
the moisture out of her auburn hair —
now black and sticky.
“ah • u* i TMi •* u u n t
witlf 1 °keep ,S the °sun
off. Poor Dr. Phantom says he has not
the slightest wish to marry, much less to
become a father”
“Who told you that, pray?”
“He did. In church. Of course we
were sitting right at the back. No human
being could sit silent through Grand-
papa s sermon on the Hittites, the
Jebusites and the Ammonites—it s so
learned!”
“What! Dr. Phantom * bachelor!
Nonsense, child!” Victoria was positive.
“He’ll fall in love and marry like any
other man.”
“No. He says not. The trouble is, he
says, that one is allowed no choice. And
really it does to be so. My dear
Papa used to say, ‘Sweet or dry’ or,
‘Say when, old chap,’ and Mama says
‘Milk or sugar?’ Grandpapa asks
everyone who goes into the snuggery,
‘Do , you prefer the window open or
shut?’ And that old waiter out at, the
Devil’s Tail breathes over your shoulder
and says ‘Thick or thin?’ And we are
always being asked to make our choice
between things that do not matter in the
least, which makes us imagine we are
actually somebody with a will of our
own, but God does not ask ‘Boy or girl’.”
when we are waiting to be bom —which
is important. He knows we would ali
say ‘Boy’—and then where would
posterity be?”
“There should have been a third sex,”
Victoria agreed, “with the vices of neither
men nor women, and the virtues of both.”
“And without the bore of haying to
live like men and women.” Juliet was
emphatic. “Of course there are the
saints. They refuse to be men and
women —but do they enjoy it?. Look at
St. Lawrence with his gridiron, and St.
Catherine with her wheel and St. Stephen
with his stones and St. Sebastian with his
arrows. They are always painted with
calm, holy expressions on their faces, but
I doubt if they enjoyed themselves. As
things are, Dr. Phantom says, nothing
would induce him to marry.”
“Why, dearest Aminta! Tears? Oh,
that scrap of pink lawn is useless! Take
my handkerchief.” Even Victoria was
concerned to see such grief.
i ‘V/’ES,” went on Juliet, who was turned
I the other way, “all Dr. Phantom
wants is to be free to go to Burragorang,
or to cross the Wol-
londilly, or explore the
Nepean, or the Dia-
mantina, or to go to
the hills to shoot
Wonga pigeons, or
shovellers, on the
lakes, or to the Lime-
stone Plains, he says,
to shoot wild turkeys
—there are flocks of
them there, he says,
and he wants to go to
the Snowy River to
fish for trout —rain-
bow bout —that’s the
life for him, he says.
And he’s making a
collection”
“Of women?”
“No, silly, of
goarinas! He has
four beauties
already.”
“Why, whatever’s
the matter with
Aminta?”
“Oh, poor darling,
doesn’t she look un-
has>y?”
“She’s getting so
thin, too! I can count
all her ribs.”
“Why,” Juliet ex-
claimed, turning
round, “her backbone
looks just like an
oxtail, with all those knobs.”
“Oh, my dear, tell us all your sorrows.
A sorrow tolh is a sorrow halved, they
say.”
“(YH, I’m in love! ” Aminta’s tone
was desperate. “Oh, love is a
terrible thing, so sweet when it begins
and then, ah! —the ache, the yearning, the
longing! I get no rest. I toss and turn.
I can’t get him out of my thoughts—and
oh, he doesn’t care a rap for me.”
“Take up wool-work ; it’s so fascinat-
ing.”
“Knit him a smoking-cap, in double
Berlin wool, and line it with red plush.”
“Embroider him a set of the new
braces.”
“Don’t tease her, girls, can’t you see
it’s serious?”
“I’m so restless. I can’t concentrate.
The world seems quite unreal, I wanted
above all things to come to this lovely
picnic, but now I’m here I keep think-
ing—‘Suppose he passed our gate, and I
was not there to see!’ Oh! And I lie


awake all night making up conversations
with him*
“Do please tell us what you talk about.
I’ve never been in love.”
“Nor I.”
“Neither have I”
“Of course w e haven’t, yet.”
“I should never dream of falling in
love, myself.”
“Let me rest my head on your shoulder,
Juliet dear, then I’ll tell you. I’m so
weary. I suffer —how I suffer! I have
no strength left. Look at my arm. It’s
so weak that I could not even support
the weight of my bracelet”
“You mean that silver filigree bangle?”
“Yes. I left it at home.”
Aminta’s was, apparently, a classic
case! Her every symptom of hopeless
love matched poor Phaedra’s, who,
through weakness, discarded her cum-
brous ornaments, and let her auburn
tresses flow over her shoulders —as
Ammta then was doing, for she freed her
chignon of its net —it seemed to ease
her.
“I found its weight insupportable. I
did not eat a bite of breakfast.”
uP\O tell'us, dear Aminta, about those
conversations!”
“I imagine we are riding together on
two most beautiful horses (a roan and
a dapple-grey), and we talk about the
flowering trees, or the swiftly-moving
clouds”-
“Trees and clouds, dear? You are
going quite the wrong way about it. He
cares to discuss nothing but the price of
hay”
“Or I pretend we are sailing in a little
yacht (such a pet of a boat with tan
sails), and we glide across the water, and
the sun shines, and the breeze is as soft
as silk on one’s cheek”-
“Just like this! What could be lovelier
than it is today?”
“But he is not here. He is not with
me! Oh, I shall die, I know I shall. I
cannot endure this nag, nag, nag at the
very marrow of my heart one moment
longer. I can’t, I can’t.”
“Oh, isn’t it sad?”
“Oh, poor, poor girl.”
“Oh, it’s agony, agony”
“Have you tried getting Granny Smith
to read your fortune in the dregs of your
cup?”
“I did. She said she could not see a
ray of hope.”
“I always think Granny Smith has such
an amused expression on her face, don’t
you, Gussie.”
“Hush! I want to hear what Aminta
is saying.”
“I bowed three times to the new moon,
and wished, I slept with a stockingful of
apples under my pillow. Oh, such a
dreadful thing I did: I stuck a flail up
the chimney! Nothing was the least
use.”
“Aminta! What a dreadful thing to
do! Put a flail up the chimney? But
that’s black magic. Oh* you naughty
girl!”
“The terrible thing is, I have grown
quite shameless. I shock myself.. Some-
times I have to get out of bed and say
my prayers, however cold it is, and how-
ever bad my chilblains are. And that’s
not the worst. I saw him go into the
chemist’s. -I did not want to buy any-
thing—but in I went! Just to see him
smile—l felt my reputation was of no
consequence ! And he gave me such a
cool nod. Such a respectful salute —
just with two fingers.”
“Better get her dressed —better harness
Ruby and take her home.”
“Juliet, you slip your clothes on and
run and harness Ruby.”
“Someone come and hold the shafts.
Ruby is so immense it’s a squeeze to get
her between the shafts ; she’s a pure-bred
brewer’s dray-horse from Marseilles, and
she’s much bigger than any Flanders
mare.”
“Get dressed, darling Aminta, and
come home, and when all nine of us are
packed into the buckboard, and old Ruby
is going at a brisk trot, with all her
brasses clinking, and all of us are chat-
tering like jays, it might cheer you up.”
“Nothing could. Oh, dear, oh, dear!
Abigail has put too much starch on my
chemise, and the frills are as sharp as
knives and cut my armpits to
ribbons”
“There, there, darling girl, dry your
eyes and come home with us.”
“A liberal dose of hartshorn, that will
pull her round.”
ICTORIA, laden with the luncheon-
* basket, paused.
“What about this doll, dear, that you
made of milk and sand, while we were
eating our sandwiches?”
“Shall we bring it?”
“No. It’s not a doll. It’s Venus. A
votive offering. After all, you never
know, do you? I’d like to leave it —just
in case?”
“Paganism, too.” Even Juliet McCree
was shocked ; and she was almost a free-
thinker.
“Miss Loveday Boisragon,” Gussie
Wirraway volunteered, to change the
subject, “sometimes goes to stay at the
Devil’s Tail. The landlord’s daughter was
one of her Sunday-school pupils. She
drives over and stays a few nights, some-
times.”
“My dear,” Victoria whispered - to
Octavia, who was, next to Aminta in
age, “do look at Aminta, Directly she
heard that she dried her eyes! If a kitten
could look calculating—well! Just look
at her! She has got quite a scheming
air, hasn’t she? I think she is far less
innocent than she appears to be.”
“Nonsense! She is the dearest thing!
I suppose you mean to infer that she will
get Miss Loveday to take her with her
next time she goes to Doggett’s Patch?
Do you?”
In the haste of departure the query was
unanswered.
A MONTH, merely, after this picnic,
Dr. Phantom looked out of his bed-
room window at the Devil’s Tail while
carrying on a desultory conversation with
his coachman, who, besides his stable
duties, also valeted his master.
It was a moonlight night. A radiance
as sharp as frost flooded the wooded
landscape and the slowly-moving river,
Diana’s votary looking with lively eyes
at the moon. Dr. Phantom leaned out of
the window. Far below (for the inn was
built on a steep bank) the river mean-
dered, looking like a moonstone, it was
so pale, so translucent. The moon, a
crescent merely, gave more light than
might have been expected; each tree,
in the thousands clothing the shelving
river-banks, was outlined in a half-moon.
Every cloud that ventured out had a
silver lining.
But Dr. Phantom, in all this peace,
found the cuckoo-clock an irritation.
“Its pendulums jerk to and fro on the
wall in such a maddening way! And
one is never taken by surprise when the
cuckoo hops out; there is such a whirring
of machinery for minutes before the
dovecote door flies open. And why a
dovecote? And why the ivy?”
First Murderer, as Dr. Phantom had
christened his man, conceded the distrac-
tion of intruding time.
“Of course, sir, it must be maddening
to sleep with.”
“To lie awake with! We are very
primitive. A truckle bed, a wool mat on
a round table, lace curtains, bare boards
and a sacrificial calf-skin! Then look at
the black rocking-chair inlaid with a pink
mother-of-pearl rose! All this is quite
in keeping with a country inn—but why
the lurid view of Stromboli in eruptiop
that hangs over the mantelpiece?”
“Our landlord, perhaps, is Italian?”
First Murderer, as his habit was, had
tacked a string from one comer of the
room to another. On this he was now
suspending ties, socks, cravats, stocks, as
he unpacked the neat carpet-bag which
was quite de rigueur for a dashing
bachelor; its muted rainbow pattern in
colored wool being the latest fashion; it
was just then only a bumpkin who carried
a bag adorned with cabbage-roses.
DR. PHANTOM sighed.
“It’s a night sacred to Diana if
ever there was one.”
“She is our favorite goddess, sir, I
notice.”
“She’s the only sensible goddess. I can
see splashes where fish are leaping—but
what fish?”
“Not oysters, anyway.”
“You from Suffolk? Colchester, eh?”
“No, sir.”
First Murderer looked reserved as he
always did when questioned.
“Tell me, is this the bedroom I had
last time we stayed here? It has the
same two doors, opening into cupboards,
on either side of the mantelpiece, and this
window overlooks much the same view
of the river; yet,, somehow, there’s a
different air ”
“This is the room next the one you
had last time, sir.”
“Ah, yes! That’s it! And the same
chimney serves both rooms.”
“I’ve poured two cans of hot water
in your bath, sir.”
“Thank you. Put the screen round it,
will you, please?”
“Shall we be wearing our rouseabouts
tomorrow, sir? Or our yellow nankin
pantaloons?”
“Oh, the flannel bags, I think. I say,
Cain”
“Thank you, sir.”
“Thank me? Why?”
“For having christened me, sir. I
confess I did not much care about being
addressed as First Murderer, though, of
course, in the circumstances as you
yourself see them, sir, it may be quite
appropriate.” . , „ •
“My dear chap! Forgive me! Dr.
Phantom’s handsome face expressed a
lively concern. “I meant, really, in my
clumsy way to give a light touch to your
tragedy, to make you feel one of us, by
giving you a nickname that made your —
er—er —misfortune seem to be of less
moment.”
<i D IT vou took my guilt for
granted.”
"wuy, my uear fellow!” Dr. Phantom
looked astonished; “Were you not
guilty?”
“Certainly not!”
“Another miscarriage of justice?”
“Decidedly. Look here, sir! I’ll tell
you—in confidence. It was like this. A
crowd of us were roof-climbing, at which
university doesn’t matter. I was leaning
over a parapet, holding my elder brother’s
hands while he felt with his toes for a
window-ledge next a drain-pipe . . . it
was one of our usual routes, and quite
an easy descent. I heard a voice say,
‘Let go! ’ Astonished, I said, ‘Surely he’s
not ready?’ The voice said, ‘Yes he is!
Quickly! Let go! ’ ‘What —both hands? ’
I asked. ‘Yes!’ The voice was urgent.
I let go.”
“Do you mean your brother fell.”
“Yes. Sixty feet on to a paved court.
At my trial the judge said I had an in-
terest in my brother’s death. No one but
myself had heard that voice! To say I
deliberately killed my best friend —my
brother!”
“Did no one identify the voice?”
“I think I know whose it was. Some
day I shall hear it again. Even the judge
allowed me the benefit of the doubt —I
got twenty years out here.”
“Is there nothing I could do?”
“Nothing—yet!” Cain looked formid-
able. “I have already set things in train
—soon, I hope, I shall clear my
name .. . But, listen! The clock!
Our alert cuckoo is calling midnight.”
“Cain has a delightful smile,” Dr.
Phantom found himself thinking, for it
was with a smile that he added, “We
have another brand-new day on our
hands!”
“Oh? Is it as late as that? I say,
Abel”
“Thank you, sir!”
“He has a hearty laugh, too,” Dr.
Phantom further reflected, as he con-
tinued “Do you know of anyone who has
a red setter for sale?”
“Yes, sir. There’s a man over at
Mallow’s Marsh who has a litter—pure-
bred, I’ve heard them saying.”
“We’ll drive over on Friday and buy
one.”
Only the top of Dr. Phantom’s blond
head showed as he moved about behind
the screen making leisurely preparations
for his bath.
“Will you hand me your clothes, sir,
over the screen?”
Abel hovered.
“Here you are!”
LOOKING into the glowing fire as he
undressed, Dr. Phantom, to his
astonishment, found himself seeing
pictures of Miss Aminta Wirraway, in a
fetching pelisse —“such an absurd affair,”
he thought, with a fond smile. And the
turn of her lovely head! He dwelt on
it. That reproachful glance! He lingered
on it, in airy thought.
“I’ll not think of that girl a minute
longer,” at last he told himself jointly,
and said, aloud, to Abel, “Did you bring
both fishing-lines?”
“Yes, sir. Our landlord tells me there
is a chance of getting red-bream lower
down the river.”
“Good. We’ll try about sunrise.”
But like a cobweb, caught in parting
some autumnal boughs, the thought of
Aminta was hard to brush away. Dr.
Phantom found himself remembering her
blushes —that came so readily! “I’m cer-
tain it was not by accident, that she came
into the chemist’s while we were there,”
he mused, a smile on his youthful, brood-
ing face, “How she colored up as she
said, ‘How-do-you-do?’ Well! I’ll not
think of it.”
“Call me ,in good time tomorrow,
Abel,” he said aloud.
“Yes, sir. I’ve got bait. I think we’d
better have these elbows patched with
leather and these shoulders, too. Our
tweed, sir, is a bit the worse for wear.”
“Oh, yes, do get it done, will you?”
This aloud, yet Dr. Phantom found him-
self still thinking of Aminta’s white
shoulders —“at the King’s school dance, t
her hair in ringlets, lying on her white
shoulders, so exquisite a vision—but Iff
not remember that!” Again he said
loudly, “How is the new mare shaping,
Abel?”
“Pretty well, sir. She’s a bit light for
the Hyde Park. I fancy you’ll find her
a good hack.” ,
“Why, yes! As a mount shes the
bushman’s dream. She ambles! She is
as easy as a rocking-horse. I had no
idea when I bought her that she was
so well schooled. She has a mouth like
silk, and she’s a good stayer, in spite of
her three white feet. We did the twelve
miles here in record time, beating Bayard s
usual effort quite easily.”
“It’s thirteen miles from Parramatta
here. I think that the new mare would
look better with a docked tail, it’s a
regular fox’s brush as it is.”
“Oh, a bit cruel, I think, in this fly-
infested country.”
“Is the bath as you like it, sir?”
“These hip-baths are the very devil —
either too hot or too cold! This is too
hot —get me another jug of cold water,
will you, please?”
“Yes, sir.”
A BEL went off, and Dr. Phantom,
** looking into the fire, saw the lobes
of Miss Aminta Wirraway’s ears. “How
soft they would be to the touch,” he
meditated. “Little pink shells! Those
adorable ears of hers! Oh, how sweet.”
He pulled his fancy up with a jerk. “I
simply must put that girl out of my
mind. I’ll think of that red setter I’m
to buy.”
“The cold water, sir.”
It was Abel,.back with a bucket from
the well.
“Oh, thank you, Abel —shove it round
the screen, will you?”
“Would you kindly make certain, sir,
that the towels I spread out in front of
the fire are not getting scorched? 1
spread them rather near the grate.”
“By Jove, yes! I thought I smelt
something burning.”
“And the new night-shirt, sir; I put it
to air on the wire fender,”
For some minutes a sound of splash-
ing water told of activities behind the
screen, while Abel, with meticulous care,
laid out a brocade dressing-gown and a
pair of carpet-slippers.
“About that night-shirt, sir?”
“It’s all right—l’m just getting into it
now.” •
“It’s one of the six new ones we got
from Belfast. At least, it’s Irish linen
I had the sewing done locally.”
“Oh, what did they cost?”
“Three shillings apiece—very dear.
The woman charged fourpence each for
making them up.”
“What! Fourpence each? We have
never before paid more than tuppence!”
“No, sir. If it’s convenient, sir, 1
should like permission to go into Sydney
tomorrow, or the next day.”
“Of course, certainly, certainly! Busi-
ness, eh?”
“I wish to see the bishop.”
“See the bishop?”
“Yes, sir. On private business.”
“Oh, of course, certainly, certainly.
Well —here we are, Abel, dined, wined,
bathed, clothed in shining raiment and
ready for bed!”
And Dr. Phantom, glowing with health
and strength, Diana’s young votary (in
spite of several arrieres pensees ), emerged
resplendent in all the gloried of the new.
white, stiffly-starched night-shirt.
“I’ll remove the bath, sir, the Boots
here goes off duty at midnight.”
“While you are doing so I’ll write that
note to Dr. Boisragon. You can drop it
in the postbox when you go downstairs.
Did you put my writing materials in the
right-hand cupboard? Or the left?”
It was a point Dr. Phantom had to
decide for himself; Abel was occupied
with water-jugs and did not hear,
“The door has stuck. I can’t get it
open.”
Half-attending, Abel said, “Put your
weight against it, then pull.”
“Here goes! Heave-ho, my hearties!”
“My God! It’s a door into the next
room —great heavens! Aminta!”
MISS AMINTA WIRRAWAY stood
in the doorway. She it was whose
grasp had prevented the door from open-
ing.
Frantically Dr. Phantom said, “Miss
Wirraway! Pray pardon this apparent
intrusion! I was under the impression
that this door led to a cupboard.”
With an emotion hardly less frantic he
was thinking, “How sweet she looks!
That long white calico neatly
buttoned to the chin —that s Cash s frill-
ing on the collar, I suppose!”
To his consternation, while he looked
at that vision of loveliness, he realised
that Miss Wirraway meant to scream.
Her red mouth opened.
“Don’t! Don’t! For God’s sake,
hush! You’ll have the whole household
rushing in if you scream! Oh, what an
awful situation!” „
“If I keep backing away from her,
Dr Phantom thought, “it might reassure
her.”
“Oh, Dr. Phantom!”
“Good God! She’s coming towards
fYiC 1 19 t
“Oh, oh. Dr. Phantom! Spare me, 1
implore you!” ,
“My dear Miss Wirraway! I have
every intention of sparing you, as you
call it. Keep back!” A
“I thought this door led to a cupboard,
and I was just opening it”—^
(Continued on page it-)


“Keep back! Why, the girl’s fol-
lowing me —into my own room! (My
God! What shall I do?)”
“I was about to put my pelisse away
(that magenta one) and I had no idea
you were here. Oh, I beg of you to
believe that I had no intention of, of —
oh Heavens! How can I convince you
of the purity of my motive? lam over-
whelmed with shame. Oh, I shall die,
I know I shall! If you think for one
moment I was coming into your
room”
“My dear Miss Wirraway, I never for
one instant thought you were! Please
understand that I had not the faintest
intention of, of (how shall I say it?)
of intruding on you! I swear that I
did not know you were in the room.
Keep back!”
“Oh, Dr. Phantom —on my knees I
implore you, I beg you.”
“Get up—suppose someone were to
come?”.
“Miss Loveday Boisragon is chaperon-
ing me —she might come back any
minute! So do please assure me that
you realise I did not mean to —to force
my company on you!”
“My dear girl! Oh, Good Lord! She
has fainted clean away. In such a beauti-
ful heap!”
“Aminta! ”
JUST as Dr. Phantom was about to
kneel by her side, just as, in tender
tones, he was murmuring, “Aminta, my
darling girl,” Abel, at last noticing what
was going on, grabbed his young master
roughly by the arm and pulled him back-
wards.
“Hey, Abel! What do you mean?
Grabbing me by the arm like this? Let
me go at once!”
“No sir,” Abel responded with much
decision. “We will retire immediately
to our own apartment. I can hear Miss
Loveday Boisragon returning down the
corridor. She will be in the room within
half a minute. Come back —come back,
sir. You and the young lady will be
hopelessly compromised if you are found
in such a situation at such a time of
night! ”
And as if to remind them of the time
the cuckoo-clock, after a clatter of
machinery, said “One.”
But Dr. Phantom was distraught.
“Cet go! Can’t you see that Miss
Wirraway needs medical attention?”
“No, sir. I cannot agree with you.
Her color is good and her breathing,
though a little hurried, is perfectly regu-
lar.” %
“I must make certain that she broke
no bones when she fell.”
“Look! She’s blushing! You can’t
call that a dangerous symptom. Be wise.
Return to your room.”
“Free me, you impertinent”
But Dr. Phantom here saw the handle
of Miss Wirraway’s bedroom door turn-
ing, Miss Boisragon was about to enter
as Abel with one herculean effort swung
his master into his own room and shut
the door.
’ “That was a near thing, sir.”
Dr. Phantom took from his breast-
pocket a yellow bandana and wiped his
“Well,” Abel continued. “That’s a
thing you’ll be grateful to me for in the
years to come!”
“But don’t you understand, Abel, she
is a very sensitive girl! Unless I re-
assure her.”
HE actually had his hand on the key
when Abel snatched it from him and
threw it out of the window.
“You might force yourself on the poor
young lady a second time!” was his in-
credible explanation.
“Force myself? You know it was the
merest accident.”
“So you say. But you must have
known she was in the next room.”
“Know? I’ll swear I didn’t. I had
not the faintest notion that Miss Wirra-
way was at the Devil’s Tail at all —not
the foggiest!”
“I knew. I saw both ladies in the hall
when we arrived. You may say you did
not see them—can you prove it? Tell me
that, now!”
“Blackmail! Ha! That’s the word.”
“No, sir.” Abel looked inexpressibly
shocked. “I have taken the liberty of
giving you a little good advice. When
you calm down you will thank me heartily
for my prompt handling of a difficult
situation. But we shall not be out of
the wood till we learn whether Miss
Wirraway has commonsense enough to
keep her pretty mouth shut. A great deal
depends on what she says to Miss Bois-
ragon, and what explanation she may
give for her obviously distressed state.”
But Dr. Phantom, standing in the centre
of the lamp-lit, bedroom, was not to be
appeased ; he was still fighting-mad when
Abel prepared to leave him.
“I have removed your bath, sir, and
placed candle, matches, biscuits, candle-
snuffers, a glass of water and our usual
Manual of Devotions on the bedside-
table. I did not bring our nightcap. I
notice that with the jeunesse dore they
are going out of fashion. I have the
honor, sir, to bid you goodnight.”
“Goodnight, Abel, er—er—thank you!”
I T was of course quite inevitable that
1 a wedding should be the natural out-
come of this midnight encounter. Yet
it was not until a year later that the
Church of St. Canice s-m-the-Vale was
decorated as never before for the
marriage (the nuptials, as the Parramatta
“Clarion” was later to describe the happy
occasion) of Miss Aminta Wirraway.
Before the bride was due to arrive
what a chirping of youthful voices echoed
through the sacred precincts!
“Of course he’s only a baronet.”
“Why ‘only’? It’s an inheritable title.
Aminta will be ‘My lady,’ or ‘Her lady-
ship.’ A very good match for her, I call
it—pretty little dear as she is!”
“Let’s sit at the back! Gussie, Juliet,
Victoria and Octavia will expect us to
tell them how their dresses looked— such
luck for them to be bridesmaids!
“We’ll sit at the end of the first pew
near the door, then we’ll see everything.”
“Juliet is frightfully cock-a-hoop, but
I don’t think the red plush bodice and
that fishergirl skirt of eau-de-Nil satin
really suit her.”
„“But the sweet bonnet made her look
quite grown up; and so beautiful, too!
I saw her at the rehearsal.”
“The bride is to be all in white.”
“The church is simply packed, isn’t
it?”
“Oh, yes! It’s such a fashionable
wedding, too. All Doggett’s Patch,
Mallow’s Marsh, Dural, Hornsby and
Parramatta seem to be here —never was
there such a smart occasion!”
“There go the bridegroom and his best
man.”
“Creeping in to hide behind a pillar,
poor shy creatures!”
“I think Dr. Phantom looks very pale.”
“Yes, poor man, he does not look at
all happy.”
“Sport is all he cares about. Dogs,
horses, goannas—his tastes lie in that
direction.”
Alberteena Wirraway, remembering
the talk at the picnic, on that bright day
a year ago, aired her knowledge.
“But why should a wedding upset him
so much?”
“After all,” Miss Loveday Boisragon
put in, “it isn’t as if he were the bride-
groom ! ”
“No, indeed,” Alberteena agreed. “The
sky would not fall if he dropped the
ring—he’s not really important, like the
bridegroom.”
“I call the bridegroom a very hand-
some man.” Miss Loveday sounded
wistful. “The Voice That Breathed O’er
Eden” was being wafted, faintly, from a
muted organ and the hymn brought her
its usual memories.
BUT Alberteena and two of her elder
sisters were admiring the bride-
groom.
“Those important-looking whiskers!
Do you think he uses Macassar oil? Or
do they grow like that, in such abun-
dance, naturally?”
Bathsheba Wirraway, it appeared, was
impressed, chiefly, with the brilliance of
the bridegroom’s eyes.
“My dears! His eyes are as black as
jet, but they sparkle like fireflies, don’t
they? He’s looking down the aisle to
see whether Aminta has arrived. Oh, he
does look a passionate man, doesn’t he? /
I must say I like a fiery lover—at least, I
think I should! ” Bathsheba, whose
nickname was the Junket, meditated,
“He has such an aristocratic Roman
nose —a Wellington nose, rather ; it is not
so fleshy as the usual Roman nose.”
Miss Loveday, as she spoke, looked com-
placently at the decorations ; every flower
within a radius of twelve miles at least
seemed to be garlanded in every available
nook and corner of the church (called, on
this occasion, “the sacred fane” by the
“Clarion” reporter).
“Oh, he is good-looking! So tall, so
manly, so resolute, so commanding—and
that great mass of curly hair! Oh, he is
a lovely man! Aminta never thought
. she’d get him! ”
“How she yearned for him!”
“Do you remember, the day of our
picnic—on Aminta’s seventeenth birthday
—when she told us she was in love and
would d-d-die! She knew she would?
It does make me laugh to think of it,”
“And we all thought Dr. Phantom was
the man!”
“What a funny thing life is!”
“Well, there’s one ornament the bride-
groom will be without in future —a cdtk-
ade! To think that Aminta is marrying
a coachman, who is also a murderer! ”
“But they proved that it was his uncle
who was the villain in that piece.”
“Oh, yes, with the bishop’s help, Sir
Bertram proved his innocence and suc-
ceeded to the Baronetcy. Quite a romance,
isn’t it?”
“1 saw one act of that pretty drama,”
Miss Loveday Boisragon interposed.
“Aminta was with me at the Devil’s Tail
when Sir Bertram declared himself. Dear
Aminta spent the whole night in tears,
and would tell me nothing of what
troubled her, and then, next morning,
before breakfast, even, Sir Bertram asked
my leave to tell us his sad history. We
told him we believed in his innocence —
and oh, my dears! —you should have
seen Aminta’s face when he knelt at her
feet and—and —paid her his address in
due form!”
A T this moment a sigh of pure rapture
■*» went up from every soul in church.
Aminta, in white, and leaning on her
father’s arm, had entered.
“Oh, how lovely she looks! ”
“Oh, the darling girl!”
Necks craned, prayer-books rustled, the
organ simulated rapture. Mr. McCree
at the altar-steps asked “W-w-wilt thou
t-take this woman?. . . ”
It was the old, old story, ever new.
VARIOUS VERSE
TWO IMAGES.
I—MAGPIES.
Where the sun dreams in mist, an angel
tree
Is blown from the songs of throated
birds v
Who cry apxong those unsubstantial
boughs
And build their nests within those
mounting words.
II. — EPHEMERALS.
Out of the river’s glass they come
To dance beneath the sally tree —
Nymphs who call a moment home
Knowing the mirror’s ecstasy
Where the blue crane and toppling hill
Stand for ever in the pool.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
CHARLIE’S ENGINES.
Stretch your mouth and shout
words not lost in the roar
and roll of the motors. Explain,
Charlie, the pressure and the volts,
the how and the why of night,
night-long pounding, that the town
have light; the awful wheels
that turn, and turn, in this cell;
floors that are concrete, heartless
and hallowed; bands that trick
the eyes with turning. Explain it;
Charlie, over its hunger,
make it seem simple as skies
in a puddle, ducks on a tank,
quiet. Quiet.
All this to Charlie is a cat,
is a kitten, a pet enslaving
with its need for-petting. Me?
Something around me, not touching,
leaving me empty of loving
or marvel, hearing only blood,
beating in the throbbing and throbbing,
thinking only of me-and-mine
and the dark blood’s longing.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.
HIGH TIDE BY NIGHT.
I, as the shore-rim, hold
Your meniscus-love asleep;
Silent, lest wash of words
Shatter its deep,
*
I fear both time and moon,
For long their draught may be,
Till all your quiet depth be drained
To rocky treachery.
Forget the bowl, however full—
Forgotten then the lees.
Instead, this minted surface take,
New from night’s treasuries.
Spend as we may, we cannot change
The moon’s tyrannic gold;
Then, wisely silent, let us hoard
This counterfeit we hold.
QUEENSLAND.
VAL VALLIS.
A BOY’S CRICKET DREAM.
Bill drove the cricket ball
And all the crowd lay flat,
For Bill was hitting right and left
—Explosion in his bat—
And hitting for a boundary
Where all the future lay
An oval in the field of time
Ringed by a golden day.
And still that Bowler at the end.
Elated, huge and dim.
Came leaping through the hot still
air
And bowled the world at him.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN HENDERSON.
THE MARTYRDOM OF
ST. SEBASTIAN.
My scarlet coat lies on the ground,
You note the texture of the fur,
What miracles of art, you say.
These Flemish painters could command
Each brush-stroke like a single hair.
How the eye focuses upon
The archer stiffly draped in black
Cutting the foreground to the right—
Masterly, that foreshortened arm,
Skilful, the modelling of the neck.
How color, line and form combine
To give the painting depth and space)
Beyond the stream, beyond the hill, -
The village each receding plane
Leads to the sky the travelling glance,
And in the sky the angels throng
Like glittering birds upon a tree —
Marvellous, you say, the mind that takes
A fantasy upon the wing
And out of prose makes poetry.
1 am Sebastian. While you praise
I suffer and my lips are dumb,
The arrows pierce me through and
through.
Yet you admire with abstract phrase
The torment of my martyrdom.
N.S.W.
RPSEMARY DOBSON.
...BUT ARE AS THE ANGELS.
When the long rush and crying of the
wind
Drop to a sudden calm, soon will the
cold
And ruffled pool gather her scattered
lights
And dark, her shreds of blue and green
and gold
Until they form, first wavering, then
clear
The dusky tree, each needle sharp and
still
On the pale radiance of the winter sky,
The pearly cloud, the deep curve of the
hill.
The silver fringe of grass, unmoving
held
All in unearthly light, as though her
soul
Had groped for the beauty of the upper
world
And in her crystal found the vision
whole.
So I receive your image in this hour
When . all my weary passion sleeps at
last.
I think I did not see you until now
Though many days 1 have struggled to
hold fast
Each look, each movement watched
your careless hand.
Tracing each finger that I might not kiss
With slow, sick, inward weeping; your
swift smile
Has gashed my heart—yet now I know
all this
Was but a storm of broken gleams and
hues
Now is the vision whole. Nor is my
peace
Won by love’s death, as theirs in whom
desire
Fails when they see their shining swans
are geese
And mock themselves for all the wasted
tears
That washed the feet of clay. More
clear, more bright
In this strange calm your strength and
goodness show.
My swan, I would not have one plume
less white.
My gold, 1 want no dimming of your
glory.
My love,l rejoicing now to see so plain
AH that has raised you up too high for
me.
Is pure from troubling, of desire or pain
As I had passed alive through the river
of death
And on the little hills of Heaven, by
grace
Walked at your side, as children of one
Father,
And in the eternal light beheld your
face.
It will not last. The wind must rise
again
For this is Time, and not Eternity.
We are but flesh. Yet, as the £ool, deep
down,
Is still in tempests, will my spirit be.
Nor shall I too much envy her you
choose:
In all her fortunate years she cannot go
Beyond the place where I have stood
today.
O foolish Sadducees, that did not know
The power of God! In love there is
fulfilment
More than the body’s—should I then
repine
If by the lesser he is lost for ever
Who by the greater is for ever mine?
N.S.W.
NAN McDONALD.


Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON,” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
* H
■ Shave with
GEM
■ HAZOH
utS
VOW
SH^ 0
and
iOCK
50C
*
BRANDAUER’A
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
OQt experiment with imitation*
c. branoauer a co. ltd, Birmingham. ENa
The Machinery
Pconle
g
281 Latrobe St., Melbourne. MU 2321
• Engineers’ Machine Tools. • Portable
ectnc Tools • Woodworking Machines.
• Circular and Band Saws. • All types
Saw Repairs.
\ 1
The AGA Roasting Oven
takes a 20-lb. turkey with
ease . . and cooks it to juicy
perfection. Joints shrink
scarcely at all! No regulation
of temperature is needed.
And no basting of the meat.
Grills are extra-rapid ... and
what sizzling, succulent grills
they are! An AGA cooker
give 3 life-long service and
guaranteed fuel economy.
You never strike a match or
turn a switch with AGA.
And cooking is cleaner,
cooler... easy and effortless
Cakes, buns, and bread are
delicious: so light in texture,
and so nicely risen.
With AGA you can dry your
own fruit and bottle it and
need no special thermome-
ters nor sterilizing equip-
ment. See AGA in action I
by
the
AGA COOKER
%
C '0 ~
> y tARS -
E
"m
*sz.
w «-«me/
y/jn?
SEE A DEMONSTRATION OF THE AMAZING ’AGA’
or write for full particulars to:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD. 45 king street. SYDNEY
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. 113 GRENFELL STREET, D^ A WE g S TER
MARGARET & ALBERT STS BRISBANE J~OChTrOS \fp WEBSTER
& SONS LTD.. HOBART. W.A. Agents:
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Androcles and the
Lion."
This play of Shaw’s, com-
pleted in 1912 and brought out
of cold-storage by Queen’s
College at Melbourne Univer-
sity’s Union Theatre, is a devas-
tating analysis of all those sorts
of institutions that a university
stands for, and that it could be
put on as a rather innocuous
joke at a university rather im-
proves the joke.
One of the complaints against
Shaw is that his characters
don’t live, in the sense that, as
in this play, his Christians,
gladiators, beggars, slaves,
patricians and emperor don’t
behave like recognisable human
beings. That is judging him on
something he isn’t trying to do.
He isn’t trying to be like
Chekhov. Having all the normal
human feelings and knowing the
contradictory nature of his
feelings, Shaw creates symbols
for them, gives them ideas and
then shows how they would
reason from them. The result is
extraordinarily funny, though
no funnier than human nature,
and the device is enormously
effective in the theatre. In this
play the device requires a lion,
and the Queen’s College players,
in their anxiety to give the play
a realism Shaw never intended,
went to the zoo to get a record-
ing of its roar.
The Queens gave a com-
mendable production. An-
drocles, who converts the
Roman Empire to Christianity
by being tender to a lion, and
Allan Griffith, as Ferrovius, the
aggressive martyr who slays six
martyr-makers, were the most
outstanding. The Lavinia of
Elizabeth Malcolmson lacked
spirit, but the gladiators didn’t.
They expressed their ferocity by
bellowing at the top of their
voices.—F. S.
First staged in Melbourne by
the late Gregan McMahon,
“Thunder Rock,” Robert
Ardrey’s lighthouse drama, was
given a highly intelligent revival
by the University Marlowe
Society at the Union Theatre.
As the sold-out writer who is
shocked back to the world by
the creations of his own mind,
John Sandford gave a remark-
ably sensitive performance. It is
a metaphysical narrative in
which a man converses with
himself. His thoughts are em-
bodied in Captain Joshua, who
lost his ship with all hands on
Lake Michigan in the ’forties;
Briggs, whose wife is going to
have a baby; Dr. Kurtz, the
medico who was kicked out of
Vienna for his advanced ideas;
and other passengers of the ill-
fated vessel. Mr. Sandford suc-
ceeded in making himself live,
and Peter Carver, as the
drowned captain, Bruce Loft,
Charles Marks, Lois James,
Janet Buck and May Bird suc-
ceeded in conveying the
atmosphere of hallucination
without losing the character of
human beings. Peter Carver was
responsible for the production.
* * * *
“A Midsummer Night’s
Dream,” one of the most diffi-
cult of Shakspeare’s plays to
make live, was given an airing
at the National Theatre, Mel-
bourne, under Ray Lawler’s
direction. It was supplied with
a composite setting so that the
full issue of scenes could be
given in their sequence without
waits. There was another in-
novation, the Mechanicals speak-
ing their lines in Cockney in-
stead of the usual Warwickshire
on the assumption that, being
born within sound of Bow bells
or something in Athens, that is
the way they would have spoken.
Andree Navarre, as Titania, all
in white and the ballet dress
obligatory on fairies since Conan
Doyle photographed some, and
Neil Hunsley (Oberon), in
sequins and a short skirt, failed
to give either the fun or the
poetry. The Mechanicals were
too class-conscious and, any-
how, not the right class. Bot-
tom and his attendant minions
were prosy. Kathie Reed’s
Puck, in red from top to toe,
was light and nimble and cap-
tured some of the Bard’s poetry.
**, * *
After a brief expedition into
the more or less higher realms of
musical comedy,. Melbourne
Tivoli has returned to its natural
habitat with “The. Tourist
Trade,” and sighs of content-
ment are surging through the
building. A troupe of chim-
panzees is the highlight of the
programme. Their resemblance
to certain well-known vaudeville
comedians, it should be stated,
is only coincidental. As hot and
steaming a mixed grill as the
Tiv. has served for a long time,
the bill is embellished with a
couple of tiptop ballets—the
Voodoo Story and the story of
the Willow-pattern Plate, a
masterpiece of choreography and
decor.
Artbursts.
Most of Ena Joyce’s paintings
at Sydney Macquarie Galleries
don’t come from nature, but
from a response to other
people’s pictures, frequently
Gauguin’s, and, consequently,
they don’t convey the feeling of
life, but chiefly of paint pulled
about now this way, now that
way, sometimes cleverly, some-
times clumsily, and mostly
emptily. But there are half a
dozen of the smaller landscapes
where the artist has really been
trying to record her response to
the earth with fidelity and
emotional depth and so, of
necessity, paints with a more re-
fined technique; and these —
“Distant View of Bath” with its
rhythms of cloud and green hills,
“Early Spring in the Orchard”
with its defiant sprays of
blossom striking out from cold,
dark, wintry twigs, “Harvest
Time” and “London Suburbia”
—say something original and, in
a minor way, quite powerful.
* * * *
Elfrida Vercoe, showing at
Melbourne Book Club Gallery,
is another New Zealand artist
and apparently a disciple of Jan
Nigra, for she paints exactly like
her. In her “Three Girls,” “The
Black Beret,” “Head of a Boy”
and “Impression of a Young
Musician” she seems to be paint-
ing not her own world but the
world the Italian Primitives
looked at. She has considerable
skill in under-painting and glaz-
ing which gives her work a
lustre,
♦ * * *
George’s Gallery, Melbourne,
has been showing monotypes by
Sandor de Kubinyi, a Hun-
garian artist of some distinction
who died last year. The mono-
type is a color-print produced by
pressing absorbent paper on to
a sheet of glass on which the
image has been painted in oils
and only one impression can be
taken. Probably something is
lost in the process, because there
is a vagueness of outline and a
lack of freshness in the color of
De Kubinyi’s pictures. A pre-
dilection for curtains seems to
.be one of the artist’s character-
istics, There is a curtain in
almost every picture, drawn or
half-drawn or hanging down
from the ceiling, with nudes
emerging from the bath or from
their bedclothes. Professor
Chisholm, in opening the exhi-
bition, said that the chief quality
of the artist’s work was sophisti-
cation, a quality lacking in the
work of Australian artists. The
unsophisticated Australian artist
ought to pull his socks up and go
in more for curtains-.
* * * *
A memorial show of the late
Alfred Coleman at Melbourne
Athenaeum covers a lifetime of
painting and territory familiar
to most Victorian artists. Cole-
man subscribed to the tradition
of Arthur Streeton, had an eye
for the picturesque and some-
times saw deeper than his ex-
emplar. “Historic Homestead,
Portland,” “Royal Reflections”
and “Moonrise” are nicely-felt
landscapes, and there is the
quality of evening light in “Fish-
ing Craft,” with its dark-green
water.
* * * «
From Lance Solomon’s recent
and highly successful exhibi-
tion, the painting “Red Earth”
was bought by students of the
Newcastle Teachers’ College and
presented by them to the college
as a “passing-out” gift. No
doubt inspired by the fine
example of the late Howard
Hinton and the Armidale
Teachers’ College, the Newcastle
institution has started a collec-
tion of .Australian art, a highly
commendable move which
should furnish inspiration and
education to students and
teachers of future students, and
which could well be supported
by an annual donation of a good
picture by an Australian artist
from Newcastle industrialists and
other interested bodies, such as
the Coal Board. A gallery at
the Teachers’ College would
also provide an excellent resting-
place for the Park Pope collec-
tion, which was given to the
people of Newcastle, until such
time as the City Council can
build its own gallery.
Bach's B Minor Mass.
This monumental work, per-
formed in honor of the 200th
anniversary of the death of its
composer last Friday by the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra
and the Hurlstone Choral
Society under the baton of
Eugene Goossens, calls for
something more than mere
masses of choral tone. A feeling
for the vastness of its scope, and
for the intense spiritual quality
that pervades it, must be infused
into the voices if the necessary
quality of exultation is to be
achieved. That was achieved in
considerable measure by the
Hurlstone singers, upon whom
the bulk of the night’s vocal
work fell, and credit is due to
their conductor, Vivian Peter-
son (who unobtrusively took his
place among the voices), for so
thoroughly schooling his choir
in rehearsal.
In the great central section of
the Credo, the first two choruses
of the Gloria in Excelsis, and in
the opening chorus of the
Sanctus, the choir sang with
admirable fervor, responding
with speed and exactness to the
varying shades of tone indicated
by Mr. Goossens, who main-
tained a nice balance between
the vocal and instrumental sec-
tions of his forces.
The soloists were the sopranos
Gwyneth Dixon and Phyllis
Rogers, the contralto Heather
Kinnaird, tenor William Herbert
and bass Raymond Beatty. The
two sopranos combined well in
the Christe eleison of the
“Kyrie.” William Herbert has
been heard in better voice, and
Raymond Beatty was in his early
appearance almost swamped by
the orchestra, though he raised
greater power towards the end.
The orchestra was in top
form, with small specialised
units in use at various times to
lend color. Towards the close
of the Gloria the horns put in
fine work, trumpets and flute
made glittering embellishment
and the ’cellos were in particu-
larly fine voice.
There were two anniversary
celebrations last week in Mel-
mourne. Shaw’s 94th birthday
was celebrated with one of his
own plays, and the actual date of
Bach s death 200 years ago was
signalised by a performance of
his “Peasant” Cantata at the
Melbourne Town Hall. The
Kew Philharmonic Society, the
University Choral Society and
the Bach Festival Orchestra
under Dr. A. P. Ehrenfeld’s
direction gave an adequate, if
not inspired, rendering of Bach’s
jolly picture of the two peasants
arguing and discussing and ex-
pressing their admiration for the
alleged virtues of their gracious
overlord, the Chamberlain of the
Saxon Exchequer, who had just
inherited two villages near Leip-
zig. The dewy freshness of the
music and the bucolic humor of
the peasants were equally en-
trancing, and when they started
abusing the local taxgatherer
and piously hoping that his
Lordship would some day turf
him out and turn him to the
rightabout it sounded like
Yesterday and Mr. Chifley. In
the solo sections Nance Osborne
aired a beautiful soprano and
Athol Burke a robust, if occa-
sionally faltering, bass.
* * * *
Henry Krips displayed more
grace than power or authority in
his conducting of the latest con-
cert of the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra at the Melbourne
Town Hall, and his ballet-dancer
action came between the audi-
ence and calm contemplation of
the Symphony No. 2 of Dvorak.
The possibility that he might one
day throw himself amongst the
orchestra also distracted the
attention from the performance
of Gyorgy Sandor in the Schu-
mann Concerto in A minor.
Both are young men and both
seem sensitive, but the pianist
only just seemed to get through
the beautiful concerto. Richard
Chugg, a fine technician if not a
virtuoso, brought his flute to
bear on a Bach suite in which
the orchestra was kept muted in
a way which tended to cloud the
flute’s tone.


fyusabev
$
I
Wl
ITWi
TO
•s ■
(1 - nil''I
7 mVv
n.\2fcV 'V**
V- ;
M
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Public Notice.
I. VITTORIO BAZZANA, of Italian nation-
ality, born at San Vito, Udine* Italy,
resident 14 years in Australia, now resid-
ing at 85 Redfern Street, Redfern, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
zd&.
■errutd
TOMATO SAUCE.
Contains no artificial colouring off
(flavouring. Made from the best ripe
tomatoes to retain natural colour.?
Cl LEA & PERRINS PuxCuet
THE SERICE MAN
THE KOREAN FRONT.
“Ek Dum”: The Australian
Government has decided, in line
with action by the British and
New Zealand Governments, to
send ground troops to Korea,
Even a brigade group will
call for the enlistment of at
least 10,000 men if the job is
done on a full scale. Training
may be carried out in Japan, the
only place where there is at
present suitable barrack and
instructional facilities. Volun-
teering began at once, on the
morning after the announce-
ment, but it will be a long time
before the men are in action.
Even if they are armed with
American weapons and inte-
grated as closely as. possible
with the U.S. forces it will be
quick work if they are fit to
fight inside six months. To the
Tribal destroyers Bataan and
Shoalhaven, already in Korean
waters,the Federal Governmentis
adding H.M.A.S. Warramunga.
The extent of the British
contribution has not been an-
nounced, but it will not be large,
though it will contain all types
of elements. Generally speak-
ing, all forces will be token
forces if the Americans use their
resources to the utmost and
Russia and China do not come
in openly, since if the fighting
is not well on its way to a deci-
sion before their arrival it will
be a poor lookout for the future
in a major war.
Maoriland is doing the sen-
sible thing in sending artillery,
which it can provide fairly
quickly. A few 25-pounders
will undoubtedly make a cheer-
ing sound.
Outside the British-speaking
peoples the only new country to
offer troops is Turkey. These
will be more than welcome if
they can be got there quickly.
They are as tough as any
Koreans. The Thais had already
promised a detachment.
The West Comes In
Events in Korea itself are
going much as expected and as
summarised in these pages last
week. The western side of the
southern portion of the Korean
peninsula was yielded to the
North Koreans with only haras-
sing tactics by U.S. aircraft and
some offshore operations by
naval units.
Defence arrangements took
form athwart the approaches to
Fusan, along the line from
below Yongdok on the east
coast via the ranges to the Korea
Strait, cutting off the Fusan
corner. The Communist plan
is to unhinge the flank of defence
on the south coast and to burst
it, if possible, in the centre, along
the road- and rail-routes from.
Taejon via Taegu.
General MacArthur, who
visited the front during the week,
said that he was confirmed in
his belief that the Communists
had lost their last chance of vic-
tory, but that “this does not
mean that victory passes to us
instantly, or without a long,
hard and most difficult struggle.
The United Nations forces
can expect trouble between the
initiative the enemy has and the
initiative he is going to lose.”
The salient points of the tac-
tical situation at the end of the
week were that the North
Koreans were concentrating
forces for their attempt to burst
the central portion of the U.S.
defence where the new U.S.
First Cavalry is in position—it
was a force used to take the
Admiralties in the last war.
A Week of Decision
On July 31 the position was
threatening indeed. The pressure
of the North Koreans on the
north-eastern Yongdok flank
had lessened in favor of two
drives on the centre and one on
the far south along the coastal
road from Suashon (Junten),
where the enemy was striving to
destroy the coastal hinge by
penetration at Hadong towards
Chinju round the 128 th de-
gree of longitude, thus hop-
ing to dig the foundation
from under the line of the
First Cavalry and to burrow be-
hind them. The central primary
drive was near Kochaing, further
to the north, on a road running
across the peninsula from the
west coast at the port of Gun-
zan. Here success would mean
getting at the main Taegu-Fusan
road and cutting off northern
U.S. forces from southern, com-
pletely disrupting the defence
and opening the main highway
to the enemy’s chief objective—
Fusan. The third drive is north
of the Kochaing drive, against
the main Taejon-Taegu rail near
Kumchong.
The forces engaged are any-
body’s guess. Anything from
40,000 to 100,000 troops are sup-
posedly arrayed against the two
effective U.S. divisions, which
can scarcely be at full strength,
but the figure is likely to be
much nearer to the 40,000 than
the 100,000 —with six or seven
Korean divisions (smaller than
U.S. ones) in action. Still, the
Americans are outnumbered, and
they are confronted by a well-
thought-out plan which was cer-
tainly not framed by any Korean
and which has Red Army writ-
ten all over it.
General Walker said on July
30 that there was “no point in
not telling the truth that the war
was in a critical stage.” And this
was obvious with two enemy
divisions in the south across the
backbone range on which U.S.
defence was set and the U.S.
southern flank pulling back
miles but still unable to prevent
itself from being dented.
The position was better than
it had been at any time
previously. in that the U.S.
defence had become a concerted
whole, well supported by artil-
lery, and was fighting a battle
and not a retreat, making the
enemy pay dearly for every yard
and presenting to him an
organised front on which retire-
ment to the limit would still not
necessarily be fatal, though a
large enemy break-through at
any point must be disastrous.
However, not the strongest
resistance nor unlimited am-
munition and most abundant
weapons (which the U.S. forces
have not yet got) can succeed
without the vital element-
sufficient reserves of manpower,
which even Chifley push-buttons
cannot replace. The fate of the
defence still depends on how
many reinforcements the United
States can throw in before it is
too late. This week should
settle that question for the time
being—if it is not already settled
by the time this is printed.
Russia v. the West.
“Ek Dum”: The news from
overseas is a chilly blast under
which the lingering hopes of
peace have begun to wither. It
will be almost a miracle if {he
world escapes its third world
war.
All those who for reasons of
policy or wishful .thinking have
preached that there will be no
war for 10, 15 or 25 yearn are
beginning to cover their tracks.
A few months ago it was rank
heresy for anybody in either tho
British or the Australian Labor
party to face the facts ; but now
Mr. Calwell admits that he does
not see how war can be avoided,
and Mr. Shinwell, whose record
makes him about the most un-
suitable Minister for Defence
for the United Kingdom that the
mind of man could conceive,
has shown where Britain thinks
the world stands.
He said that Britain must put
hers* If in a position to “have a
reasonable hope of success” in
defending herself against aggres-
sion from “the only quarter
from which it might be ex-
pected,”
Russia’s Mighty Force
He said that the British
authorities had a great deal of
information about Russian pre-
parations made behind
Moscow’s smokescreen of peace
propaganda; but he was not
going to tell all he knew. One
third of Russia’s army of 175
active divisions had been
mechanised, and tank divisions
had a total of about 25,000
tanks, a large number of which
were in the Soviet zone of
Germany “in immediate readi-
ness.” He declared that the
Russians had 19,000 military
aircraft, including jet-aircraft of
the latest designs, both bombers
and fighters, while there were
also 2,800,000 Russians under
arms whose numbers could be
doubled on mobilisation. That
estimate agrees with one issued
early in the year by the United
States Senate Committee, which
placed the available forces of
the U.S.S.R. on mobilisation at
5,000,000.
This time there will have been
a five-year advance in training
based upon Russian experience
and on the experience of large
numbers of Germans, such as
Von Paulus, who are hoping to
use the Russians to reconquer
Germany for them.
Russia’s Tanks
The new armament will be
much ahead of that of the last
war except in artillery. Apart
from the atom-bomb, which is
only a secondary weapon, and
scarcely likely to be as useful as
the 55,0001 b. block-busters, for
which the United States ord-
nance departments have been
designing hoist-gear so that they
can be loaded into bomb-bays,
the Soviet armies have plenty
of guns and plenty of tanks in
the heavy and very - heavy
classes.
Their main one at the end of
World War II was the T 34, re-
ported in use by the North
Koreans, it being there described
as a 35-tonner. It was actually
in War II models a 28-tonner
with 52 mm. armor, a low
silhouette and broad treads and
a nice turn of speed up to nearly
40 m.p.h. Its gun was a 76 mm.
It has been rearmored, and it is
said that its silhouette has be-
come even lower-slung and the
main gun heavier. The very
heavy Russian tank brought into
action near the end of World
War II was the Stalin, which
carried 150 mm. armor in front
and a 1*22 mm. gun, but it must
be' comparatively immobile on
heavy ground and narrow roads.
Even the 60-ton German Tiger
was no racehorse and unsuitable
for independent action, though it
had 100 mm. armor and
mounted the deadly long 88 mm.
But it was not popular with its
owners, who christened it
elegantly der Mbbeltransport-
wagen—“the furniture-van!”
Poland’s Generals
Not merely has the strength
of Russia to be considered, but
the satellites. The forces of
these, whatever they are, are not
included in the Anglo-American
estimates, and they are sub-
stantial. Poland has an army of
perhaps 250,000 under arms
with another 250,000 ready to
be called up. There are four
military commands in Poland
with 16 infantry divisions, three
brigades of artillery, four
artillery attack regiments, five
engineer regiments, six signal
regiments and a commando sec-
tion which includes specialists
such as rocket artillery. These
are outside the 11 brigades of
frontier corps troops and 18
regiments of “security” troops,
the last being modelled pretty
closely on Hitler’s S.S.
There need be no doubt that
the Polish Army is part of the
Russian Red Army. Every high
command in Poland is held by a
Red Army officer sent from Mos-
cow, though some of them have
assumed real Polish names.
The Minister for Defence is
Marshal Rokossovsky, who
commanded a Russian Army
group in the last war. His chief-
of-staff is General Korzcyc, also
of Stalin’s Red Army. The
training and organisation of the
army are in the hands of Soviet
Army officers, each of general’s
rank ; so is every inspectorate of
the four district commands. The
commanders of each district
except Cracow, where a Pole,
Lieut.-General Fossor, com-
mands, are all Red Army com-
manders. And the Air Force
and Navy owe their directions
to officers who were serving with
the Russians in World War 11.
This information has been
confirmed recently by the
usually reliable “New York
Times,” which declares that
A majority of Poland’s high officers
are Soviet. Absolute control remains
in the hands of Moscow. All equip-
ment and tactical and strategical
direction comes from the U.S.S.R.
Atlantic Pact “Defence”
Against this picture the state
of the Atlantic Pact defence and
of Pacific defence is alarming.
The Atlantic Pact plan is only
a plan. It needs at least three


"Flying Saucers 11
are REAL!
Flying saucers don’t come
from Russia or Mars, but they
DO exist. Without revealing
military secrets, that’s what
Henry J. Taylor, internation-
ally known journalist and
radio commentator, says in
August Reader’s Digest. Some
are guided, others are not.
They have no stream of light
or smoke, no sound. But
they’re all part of a great and
growing experiment. Read this
advance report of new weapons,
still secret, that will prove
wonderful news for the demo-
cratic nations of the world.
This stimulating article is
only one of 31 in August
Reader’s Digest. The world’s
greatest reading value at one
shilling and sixpence. At all
newsagents and bookstalls.
ssssss*«t.v:v
Wi •
) -M3TE YBARS OLD F
£'<<■■<■;■■ ■■, •■■■ __ ~ ' ' :
OLD'- PIVI
■
' '!
„ - „LD ~ FIVE YEARS:
s ' ' _
B- YEARS :OLD - F
ARS
|
AR;
0
II.D - ‘
WARNING!
„-JM) S. LIVE YEARS,
ItD - FIVE YEAj
Mm**'* * 1
fee
’ i ii|
BARS HM
:iil
(years
nr.o ~ c w
YEARS OLD - El
LIVE YE
OLD - Ell
.YE All
11
W.D - FIVE YE.
B yrars- ol:
'■ Y 1
lllpT 1 “
YEARS OT,
■ - FIVE Y
world
SSles Of CORJo
Market ed
° ! nh! ‘ky in , ‘ a,VKd ! °* at ; e a st fi
over five years ° R '° “PECIA, u '
:~ M „, httea “-*o N „ frooi
P ed pra ctice 0 f
exceed those of anv u
*7 * • *«r ;:, b 7
»M. Which
- FIVE Yj
b&.YEARS O
tm 'FIVE
. . v -* x . '•
>YEARS Oj
;-e>v-live
- v Un kss it ; K
y °* b **»''’**'*■
“■«■ vhe n ;,::; o, \
y is bottled
'OLD'
y EARs
,h ‘ hb *Protects
«i«st not be
««»*<, for „
The „ or<J „ OLo ,
roo wIuTZT 1 yo "‘ w ° rd
f)hj
W&mmM
: ! S Mi r . VIMI
\' || ” S,Jt f/ * C W'A/sJty o/
f Utstan din B
/>-v r«^:_
tti
WWi
FIVE
**~>:YBARS
Sknv’
ARS
K rr BIV’
Hr.M,! “***»*
*« Corio Dijtin
MWBB.S O'
OLD -TTYTT
EWE YEARS OLD:
a
l\3 V/ InitJ “*
FIVE
•- Hi
FIVE YEARS OLD - FIVE YEARS OLD - FIVE YEARS I • -11
: ;O».D > -FIVE ICEAftg
years to give it full concrete
existence, and it is running
against a tremendous start given
to the Russians while an addled
Western world has been busy
trusting its destinies to people
of the calibre of Dr. Evatt and
Mr. Trygve Lie, windy dreamers
and wordspinners.
Against the 200-250 divisions
which Russia and its satellites
could throw into the European
field alone at once, the existent
forces of the West are negligible.
It would be hopeful to say
that the Americans could put
into Europe more than the most
limited military forces under
about four months. And even
then if they could have 15 to 20
divisions (which means up to
1,500,000 men all told on last
war’s ratios) in action there
within seven to eight months
they would be doing well. In
the invasion of Normandy in
operation “Overlord” with two
years’ intensive preparation be-
hind and only the English
Channel to cross, it was D + 60-
day before 18 divisions of U.S.
troops had been built up in
France, D+lBo before the
force reached 39 divisions, a
position which is better under-
stood when it is realised that
supplies had to be stepped-up at
the increased rate of about 1500
long tons per day per division.
It is no wonder that the con-
ference of Defence Ministers,
advised by Field-Marshal Mont-
gomery and his commanders in
Paris on June 21, laid emphasis
on materiel in its communique:
The Ministers considered the inter-
national military situation and pro-
posals drawn up by the commanders-
in-chief. They recognised the neces-
sity of speeding up, without delay, the
production of war material and of
increasing the defensive power of the
Western Union land, air and sea
forces as a guarantee against aggres-
sion.
Resources and Strategy
Estimates of the total strength
needed to hold back an onrush
from Russia differ according to
views of probable Russian
strategy. The reports of opera-
tions along the east frontiers
suggest that all ancient invasion
routes would be used from a
central assembly area. The
enemy would pour down the
Tisza Valley to Buda-Pesth and
Vienna and thence to Munich.
They would come by the Timi-
soara route out of Rumania to
Belgrade and Northern Italy and
Greece. They would drive across
the Dragoman Pass from Sofia
to Belgrade. And they would
take the northern routes into
Sweden and across the flat-lands
of East Germany to the Elbe, and
thence across Westphalia to the
Ruhr and the Low Countries of
the Rhine belt.
On this assumption the safe
numbers needed for defence
would be 125 to 150 Western
divisions plus the substantial
forces which certainly would be
required to keep down the trai-
torous fifth-columns of France
and Italy in particular. The de-
fence-line would be at least 700
miles long.
The resources available don’t
come within shouting distance
of that need. Leaving out the
Americans, it is doubtful if the
French could put more than half
a dozen divisions, and poor ones
at that, into the field. The
Belgians and the Dutch certainly
could not do better than another
six between them. British and
Americans together might scrape
up 30 more or less improvised
divisions within three months—
making the total 42 divisions in
all, whereas m the first crucial
weeks up to 100 divisions would
e or to hold positions,
while the counter-offensive de-
?,™ e
thrust into the soft underbelly
of middle Europe, round Czecho-
Slovakia, where so many wars
have been decided.
It is exactly that area which
the Russians and their satellites
have recently been reported as
turning into another Siegfried
Line, a move inexplicable to
t^lose w h° have not studied
European strategy carefully. It
seems that in case of attack the
British will more than ever need
their Channel to give them time
to organise the 4,000,000 battle-
trained Britons on whom Mr.
Attlee says that he relies, and
to place back in service capital
ships Eke the new Vanguard,
which in the past six months he
has been busy packing away in
reserve, and do something to re-
create the incomparable Coastal
Command and Bomber Com-
mand which are almost dead of
Socialist anaemia.
Battle with Rice
In Asia the p OS i tion is no
more rosy> Persian oilfields are
q U j c kiy accessible to invading
Soviet troops . so is the S uez
Canal, a fact which places an
add ; tional even h eav i er burden
than in the j ast waf on the
We st for defence of the Persian
and Suez regions xhe rice .
bowls of . Siam and Burma are
easily accessible from China, and
Indian grain regions from the
Meshed-Duzdab route into Balu-
chistan, apart from the access
through Afghanistan. Who holds
the Indian irrigation areas,
Burma, Indo-China and Siam
has conquered southern Asia, for
he has control of the most
P oten t weapon of all—South-
East Asia’s food supply. He
can say who is to eat and who
is to starve to death in short
order.
There are probably—it is little
better than a guess based on
knowledge of groups—soo,ooo
Chinese troops at the disposal
of the Communists, plus a Soviet
Manchurian Army of 700,000
at least. On the Western side,
the Americans may have 150,000
troops, trained and half-trained,
plus naval units in mid- and
western Pacific bases, which will
now be added to regularly.
The French forces, such as
they are, in Viet-nam are com-
pletely tied up. And the British
have work for the tiny bodies
of troops which they maintain
in Malaya and Hong Kong.
Britain in Asia
On April 16 the British
Colonial Secretary gave the
strength of the British and
Gurkha troops in Malaya at
11,000, plus 3500 men of the
Malay Regiment.
Since then the 26th Gurkha
Brigade has been moved from
Hong Kong to Malaya, and
the 13th/18th Hussars Queen
Mary’s Own, once commanded
by Major - General Charles
Miller, who was here recently
as the Duke of Gloucester’s
Chief of Staff—was sent to
Singapore from the Middle East
in May. Another brigade has
also been transferred from Hong
Kong which now stands lonely
in an angry Communist sea
itself guarded by only two
brigades with attendant artillery
units. 7
The speeches of the British
Prime Minister and Mr. Shin-
well in the debate on defence
in the House of Commons on
July 27 showed devastatingly
what five years of Socialist rule
have done to security in the
United Kingdom. Mr. Shin-
well’s effort sounded as if he did
not care much whether Russia
won or not in any coming event,
And Mr. Attlee spoke like a
man coming out of a dream
when he warned the country that
“the more hopeful conditions of
a few months ago no longer
rule.”
It seems that Mr. Churchill,
who predicted events now
developing as tar back as his
speech delivered at Fulton, Mis-
souri, in March, 1946, was
modest in his expressions when
he said that Britain had no
equipment which could effec-
lively deal with the Soviet
armed avalanche if war broke
out.


DOCTORS
STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
?m
mm
He
imeosmer
mm
mm/
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
He didn’t win her "by a whisker" . . . it’s his
smooth, clean-shaven look! You, too, can have
shaves that look good and feel good . . . Palmolive
Shaves! Palmolive soothes your skin as you shave
faster, closer without skin sting! Get Palmolive,
the shave cream of successful men!
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
BANKERS • EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN • LAWYERS
PS
ONLY
0m
mm
m
More Ple
from Mot
dfg
CORRECT tyre pressures mean more
than easier riding. They mean safety,
better control, less wear on tyres.
So check your tyre pressures regularly
with the accurate Kismet Tyre Gauge. . .
and when they need more air do the job
in half the time with a Kismet Foot Pump
or Renrut “Quad” Hand Pump. The
unique two-cylinder Supercharger action
makes every stroke unbelievably easy and
at full volume.
KISMET
d
&
m 2
.
Manufactured by
WILLIAM TURNER (Kismet)
LTD., Sheffield, England.
Agent in Australia :
MR. E. O. JONES,
43-49 Hardware St., Melb., o.l*
G.P.O. Box n.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
J. BULL’S GRAND ROLE
American comment on British
hesitations over the Schuman
scheme was mostly abusive,
though the abuse was pro-
voked by a singularly ill-
timed statement put out by the
British Labor party which, in
effect, laid down that Socialist-
ruled'Britain could only join in
the move to put Western Euro-
pean coal-and-steel production
under one authority if all those
in it were Socialist too.
On that, a Republican
E.R.P.-supporter on the Con-
gress Appropriations Committee,
Senator Knowland, represented
the most general American re-
action in sarcastically comment-
ing ; “Perhaps the time has now
come to give British Socialism a
chance to demonstrate its ability
to function on its own feet with-
out being encumbered by dollar
aid.”
A rather lone voice, Walter
Lippmann, in N. Y. “Herald
Tribune,” pointed out that the
Continental countries, for their
part, appreciated Britain’s
peculiar position in the world,
and were now taking a quite
realistic but entirely friendly atti-
tude towards it:
“They have recognised that
Britain will not, and, in view of
the complexity of British in-
terests and connections, that
Britain cannot, enter whole-
heartedly and deeply into any
essentially - European project.
Therefore the presence of the
British in the critical negotiations
could lead only to debilitating
compromises. For the terms on
which Britain could participate
in any European organisation
would so weaken that organisa-
tion that the great objective of a
Franco - German partnership
would be lost in the effort to
satisfy British interests.”
Therefore, France and Ger-
many and the other Continental
countries decided to go ahead
without Britain, knowing that
Britain could never be a full
member of the kind of institu-
tion they proposed to establish.
But they recognised also that
Britain, though it cannot partici-
pate fully, must, for its own sake
and for theirs, participate some-
what.
The intention, in Lippmann’s
—London “Daily Express.”
“NOW, SERGEI IVANOVITCH, IF YOU DON’T BEHAVE TRUMAN WILL GET YOU!”
view, was “to work out and to
adopt the plan and then to offer
Britain some sort of associate —
one might almost say non-resi-
dent and non-vetoing—member-
ship in the European system. If
that can be done it will reconcile
the European need for deep
commitments toward unity with
the British inability to make very
deep commitments.”
The übiquitous nature of
Britain’s position, the writer
further pointed out, was some-
thing quite unique. Britain alone
is an active and leading mem-
ber of all the Western-side asso-
ciations of nations, excepting
only the inter-American associa-
tion : “It is in E.R.P., the
Atlantic Pact, the European
Council, the United Nations
and, of course, the [British]
Commonwealth’*;
“No other country belongs to
all of these associations. No
European country belongs to the
Commonwealth, no other British
country belongs to the European
Council, and only Canada is in
the Atlantic Pact. The United
States is in the Pact and in
E.R.P., but it is not in the Euro-
pean Council and it is not, of
course, in the Commonwealth.
“This interesting and compli-
cated relationship has led to an
impressive, and indeed grand,
conception of the British role
in the world. London is to be
the common centre, the great
liaison-point, where all the inter-
national associations are tied to-
gether and harmonised. Through
London the connections are to
be safeguarded and regularised
between North America and the
European continent, between the
United States and the Middle
East, between the United States
and South Asia. For only
Britain has vital interests and
old connections and long experi-
ence in all these regions and in
all their interrelations.
“This,” the U.S. writer con-
cludes, “is a difficult role to play
successfully. But I, for one,
think the world would be much
worse off than it is if Britain
were not attempting to play it.”
Another on J.B.
From Assignment to Austerity,
by Herbert and Nancie Matthews
(an American, Herbert Matthews
was for the latter half of the
1940’s chief London corre-
spondent of “New York
Times”):
“Perhaps, indeed, the British
are beaten beyond hopes of re-
covery. If so, they do not know
it today any more than they did
after Dunkirk. It will be time
to put a tombstone over . the
grave of the British Empire
when Britons cease flighting so
confidently and courageously.
“If that day comes history will
write over the grave ‘Here lies
Western civilisation’ —and we
will all be buried under its
ruins ....
“Character, after all, is the
greatest asset any country can
possess. Anyone who writes off
any nation like this, with, its
patience in adversity, its dogged
courage, its civic virtues, its
business acumen, skill and ex-
perience is running counter to
commonsense;
“To believe in Britain’s ulti-
mate recovery is much more
than an act of faith ; it’s a logi-
cal deduction from ascertainable
facts even though no optimism
is justified for the immediate
future.
“The political wisdom, ability
to take punishment cheerfully,
gift for improvisation, essential
homogeneity of the people
which makes them into a solid
block when real danger has to
be faced —these and other quali-
ties will come into their own,”
“Aggressive” U.S.A.
Outlining the now-familiar list
of Soviet aggressions, London
“Economist” emphasises that the
policy of imposing Russian con-
trol on as many States as pos-
sible and of undermining all
others is not a latter-day re-
sponse to American “imperial-
ism,” but dates back, in execu-
tion, to the middle of the war,
the first step —the creation of an
all-Communist Government for
Poland—being begun in 1943 at
the height of Russia’s war-time
alliance with the West, and the
rest of the process since de-
veloping from that deliberate
In striking contrast the be-
havior of the “aggressive”
Americans:
“Their mood in 1945 and 1946
verged on isolationism. Almost
total demobilisation made even
the maintenance of the small
American garrisons in Germany
a problem. During the Four-
Power conferences of 1946 the
British representatives had on
several occasions to hold their
breath lest the Americans, in
their overwhelming desire for
agreement with the Russians,
might try to achieve it at the
cost of some vital British or
European interest.
“Far from America being con-
cerned to press its ‘anti-Soviet
policies’ on Europe, only the
extreme evidence of Russian in-
tentions and policies compelled
an unwilling America to break
with the tradition of generations
and begin to join with the
peoples of Europe to counter
the Russian threat. Far from
the United States ‘needing’
Europe for its anti-Soviet plans,
only Europe’s desperate need
finally enlisted American interest
and support.”
Tito Talks.
The spotlighting of Korea has
left other probably equally im-
portant parts in the shadows, one
xesult being that a Tito speech
which a correspondent in Bel-
grade of N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
described as “one of the most
far-reaching ideological cannon-
ades the Marshal has fired in his
fight to attract Communists
everywhere to his side against
Moscow” passed practically un-
noticed.
Briefly, Tito’s theme was that
Communism as practised in
Yugoslavia was the only true
article; that there the State was
disappearing, or, as he put it,
“withering away,” in accord with
the concepts of Marx and
Lenin, as power was being trans-
ferred from the State to the
workers’ own councils in the
factories and elsewhere.
This is being done by specific
legislation, which provides for
executive power in all factories,


THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. ,J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6-4 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
ndfS stmomdm
SANDERS
FILES
.VVC.
•totement*. etc., (lied in the
Sander*" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
fhe end of each n.onth —or
any other period.
Priam unit fnr-
thar infortiudna
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Fty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
C..l ntut.ng
»YDNKY
mm.boiknb .
adf.laidk
ttfclM -
-■ Peiifold A Co Ptjp. Lid.
Nurman Bros Ply. Ltd.
V»rdoo A Soon Ltd.
VocJtct Booh Co- (Auai.J
CLOSE WORK NEEDS
LOW SERFAGE BRIGHTNESS, YET .
HIGH LEVEL ILLUMINATION
mm
n
m
Up WKmmm
m
m
m
r.
■ i
" *•>»-
m
■
}s.. • ■
s''
m-
I
■
U
mi
I■
■ , •
■
nn
K
■ ■
£pee4 Wwk frith
CLAUDE’ COLD CATHODE
FLUORESCENT
LIGHTING
NEON
DISPLAYS
I
PORCELAIN
ENAMEL
The human eye is industry’s
most critical control device. Good
seeing conditions are, therefore,
just as fundamental to good
work as good tools, machines and
equipment.
To-day, Claude Cold Cathode
Fluorescent Lighting is regarded
by progressive management as a
production tool designed to pro-
mote product quality as vjpll as
rate of output.
For restful vision, the eye needs
low surface brightness at normal
vision levels . . • even distri-
bution with absence of shadows
and glare ... a comfortable detail-
revealing illumination level on all
working planes with good colour
discrimination.
There are other tangible benefits,
too lower lighting costs, low
maintenance. Your nearest Claude
office will be happy to tell you the
full story and give details of the
Claude Rental Plan, which avoids
necessity of incurring capital
expenditure.
CLAUDE
fIEON LIMITED
SYDNEY - NEWCASTLE - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE Ann ainF ' PERTH ' HOBART lA
mines, railroads and other enter-
prises in Yugoslavia to be taken
Lay from the State and turned
over to workers’ councils, which
are being elected by secret ballot.
Describing this as the second
ereat step which is being taken,
Tito said the first was the drastic
decentralisation decreed earlier
this year, which had eliminated
numerous unwieldy Federal
Ministries in Belgrade and turned
over much of their power to the
local governments of the six
Yugoslav republics. “Although,
said Tito in this apparent bid
for general Communist support,
“the State has the task of keep-
ing the minority of exploiters
and enemies of our new Yugo-
slavia in a state of subordina-
tion, 'it is gradually withering
away since its functions, pri-
marily the economic ones, are
being gradually transferred into
the hands of the workers. De-
centralisation, not only economic,
but also political and cultural,
is the first appearance here of
the withering-away not only of
centralisation, but of the State
in general as a means of com-
pulsion.”
Stalin, Tito further stated, has
gone in the exactly opposite
direction, the Kremlin “creating
for itself unfathomable authority
as was once done in the primitive
world, but in the primitive world
it was an invisible deity and now
it can be seen and heard.”
He charged Stalin with ousting
“millions” of Soviet citizens from
their homes and deporting them
“to lethal climatic conditions” in
Siberia with “horrible conse-
quences.”
“With Russian workers op-
pressed by a monster bureau-
cracy and a constantly stronger
internal security force, Yugo-
slavia,” he said, “believes it will
set a model for the world, and
especially for the Communist
movement.”
Hirohito Worship.
Though admitting that “in a
strictly legal sense there has
been a veritable revolution in
Japan” under MacArthur’s
guidance, N. Y. “Herald Tri-
bune” writer Allen Raymond,
after over two years in Tokyo,
is doubtful if the reforms “will
stick.”
As one instance, he points
out that the Emperor, who
“publicly renounced his
divinity,” is to millions of Japs
today “just as divine as he ever
was, and even a little more
popular”;
“No idol of the masses in the
Western world can ever receive
the emotional adulation of a
people which is extended to
Hirohito by his loyal subjects
whenever he goes on tour.”
The Jap crowds, Raymond
reports, “weep when they see”
Hirohito: “Communist coal-
miners on strike sell little flags
and Hirohito buttons to welcome
him when he visits their villages.
Anyone who has travelled with
Hirohito knows that he holds
the hearts of his people, who
look toward him as to the father
of all Japanese. He has their
hearts. He can have their money
and he can have their lives when-
ever he asks them.
“It was so before the war and
is so today,”
West German “Police.”
N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
editorially commenting on the
probability of a “police force”
being set up on the Western side,
too, despite official disclaimers:
“The decision not to permit
Western Germany to rearm was
always conditional; it was obvi-
ous that if the Russians fostered
a German Army in their zone,
counter-measures would have to
be taken, not only as a conces-
sion to German national pride,
but as a measure of self-defence.
Uniformed German forces, act-
ing as an extension of the Red
Army, could cause far too many
complications for the Western
Powers to deal with only through
their own troops and constabu-
lary.”
The West force would be under
the central Government at Bonn,
and would be “one which could
be armed and trained as well as
their Eastern counterparts, and
employed in any part of the
Western zones to repel raids or
frustrate uprisings. This may
well be the seed of a Western
German Army, but the Soviet
Union has allowed no alterna-
tive. It has sowed the seeds in
the East and must bear the full
responsibility for whatever
harvest the world may reap.”
Meanwhile the world is
presented—in Korea —with a
grimly clear example of the re-
sult of leaving an occupation
zone undefended in the face of
open Soviet arming and training
of an army across the border.
No doubt that will have its
effect on the West’s German
policy —time and the Kremlin
permitting.
French Social Service.
Making a comparison between
British and French approaches
to the Welfare State, Robert
Stephens, in London “Observer,”
gives some interesting details of
the novel French form of social
service.
In the French scheme the
funds are provided entirely by
contributions, and administra-
tion is managed by a body
elected by contributors and
beneficiaries.
Contributions amount to
about 30 per cent, of the national
wage bill, 25 per cent, being
paid by employers and 5 per
cent, by workers.
Benefits include family, pre-
natal, maternity and housing
allowances, sickness and dis-
ability payments, workmen's
compensation, widows’ and old-
age pensions, and death grants.
Family allowances are on a
lavish scale, partly to encourage
the birth-rate (which they have
successfully done). These in-
clude an allowance for a wife
who does not go out to work.
For example, a Parisian with
three children whose wife is not
earning receives 12,000 francs a
month in allowances as well as
reductions in railway and bus
fares.
There is no free health service.
The patient pays the doctor him-
self and can. claim- back from
the social-security fund 80 per
cent, of the official tariff for
treatment.
Dragnet Digest.
Children Marching. When the
Soviet-directed East German youth
march in Berlin' came to the boun-
dary-line the West Germans faced
them with a poster-comment to think
over: “Look at the ruins about you.
That, too, began with children march-
ing.”
* * * ■.
The Good Cold War. —Marshall
Plan administrator Paul Hoffman
speaking: “The cold war is a good
war. It is the only war in history
where the question of destruction
doesn’t enter into it at all. Every-
thing we are doing is building up.
Now, if we carry on a resourceful
cold war, the kind of war free people
can carry on, Russia will be con-
tained.”
* * * *
Red Army. —While much is heard
of the U.S. atomic stockpile, “One
hears rather less,” comments “Man-
chester Guardian,” “of the fact thai
Russia’s army of 155 field force
divisions (perhaps more) is the onl;
land army worth the name in th«
world at present, and that her annua
production of war aircraft is nearl:
six times that of the Americans.”
MacArthur on War Prospects. —As
rendered by a staff writer of N. Y.
“Herald Tribune,” the MacArthur
view is that the Red Army may be
capable of defeating France and of
neutralising Great Britain by 1952-54,
but that it will not be capable of
knocking out the United States —and
that it will not be capable, of waging
the long protracted war which would
follow an attack on Western Europe
if the United States had not been
knocked out first. General Mac-
Arthur believes that the U.S.S.R. will
not intentionally start a war which
cannot surely be concluded and won.
No world war could be won by
Russia unless the United States had
been defeated.
* * * *
Biological Weapons. —“ New York
Times” military writer Hanson W.
Baldwin is authority for the informa-
tion that, though “the work is
shrouded in secrecy,” enough is
known about U.S. development of
“biological agents” to indicate that
“utilisation of bacteria and other
agents to cause death or disease to
man, beast or crops has advanced
beyond the laboratory stage. The
Japanese,” he adds, “operated during
the war a biological ‘factory’ in
Manchuria which the Russians took
over. The Soviets are known to
have been aided by certain German
work done in this field.”
* * * *
Democracy v. Corns. —London
“Times” on measures pending against
Communists in Australia and else-
where: “It is clear that circumstances
may well arise in which measures of
the kind already approved by law-
measures upon which a- democracy
will always prefer to rely while it
can, for the sake of its own charac-
teristic liberties —would prove inade-
quate. It is the circumstances in
each country that must decide when
and how a democracy must, in its
own interests, withdraw its gratuitous
tolerance of its foes. There is a limit
to the tolerance which is natural and
desirable in a free society; it is
reached when any organised enemies
of freedom become bold enough and
powerful enough to endanger the
democracy itself which tolerates
them.”
« * « «
Singapore Fighter “Strength.”
London “Daily Express” report:
“Jet fighters have been sold to Egypt.
But to Singapore—a point vital to
the defence of the Empire—there goes
not one. At Singapore 60 five-year-
old aircraft form the sum total of
our front-line fighter strength.”
* * * *
Korean Surprise. —U.S. comment
supports the view that the aggression
from the north in Korea was actually
the surprise it seemed to be. Thus,
a staff writer in N. Y. “Herald
Tribune”: “In due course the Presi-
dent will no doubt wish to find out
how it was possible to mount the
invasion of Southern Korea without
—so it would appear—his receiving
any information of what was coming.
Even a comparatively primitive army
needs time to get set, and a large
number of people are bound to have
been involved in the preparation of
this invasion.” And in editorial
comment the “Herald Tribune” de-
clares that there had been a failure
in the U.S. Intelligence service.
* * * *
British Isolationism. —As viewed
from Vienna by “Die Presse,” adding
to the mass of criticism of Britain’s
standing-out of the Schuman scheme;
“The [British] Labor party has
announced its egoistical isolationism.
The party’s declaration [on the
Schuman plan and European union]
will hurt it at the next election. One
must assume British isolation from
Europe until the Continent accepts
the Socialist unity which the Labor
party demands or until the Labor
Government falls, perhaps not least
of all because of its European policy.
The wait for the latter eventuality
may be shorter than for the former.”
* * * *
Injustice to Pakistan. Roundly
condemned by a London “Times”
letter-writer: “It-is to be hoped that
we shall shortly hear from the
M.C.C. what steps they have taken
to remove the ‘sense of deep dissatis-
faction’ felt by cricketers in Pakistan
at the rejection of their request for
admittance to the Imperial Cricket
Conference. The decision complained
of coincides with the advancement of
India from provisional to full mem-
bership. Three members of the
Commonwealth are involved, and
there is no need to add to the mis-
understandings between the Republic
of India and the Dominion of
Pakistan.”


This modem
Speedh&rd Fleet
provides, swift, sure
services to all
6 continents
Constellation Speedbirds
Stratocruiser Speedbirds
Argonaut Speedbirds
Solent Speedbirds
B.CXA.C. routes to fifty-one countries on all six continents can
save you weeks of valuable travelling time.
You fly in the world's most modern comfortable airliners, arrive
with a bonus of extra time to do and see more at your journey’s
end. • You get there sooner . . . stay there longer.
Complimentary meals and refreshments served en route; no tips
or extras for countless comforts and courtesies. It’s all part of
8.0.A.C.’s 31-year-old tradition of Speedbird service and experience.
Book from Sydney to Indonesia • far east • hong kong
JAPAN • CEYLON • INDIA • PAKISTAN • AFRICA • ITALY
GREAT BRITAIN • AND VIA U.K. TO U.S.A. • CANADA
CENTRAL AND SOOTH AMERICA • BERMUDA
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C.
General Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Towns-
ville, Cairns, Darwin or from Travel Agents in all cities and towns.
Specify 8.0.A.C. “Air Cargo” for your overseas shipments!
8.0.A.C. TAKES GOOD CARE Of YOU
M6B
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION EMPIRE AIR-
WAYS LTD., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
Matchless performance!
That's why more tons are hauled and
more people ride-the world over—on
Goodyear Tyres than on any other make!
1
A right tyre for each job!
Here are the famous super-stamina Good-
year work tyres each one designed for the
best performance on a particular job.
RIB ALL SERVICE H ALL-WEATHER AIRWHEEL
The actual over-lhe-road performance records
of truck and bus operators, the world over,
prove that Goodyear Truck and Bus Tyres are
the world's finest. They stand up better on
the hardest jobs give longest tyre life
lowest cost per mile. Each Goodyear Hi-Miler
Truck and Bus Tyre is built from finest natural
rubber and tough, heat-resisting Rayon cord
—to give maximum performance. Get the
world's finest tyres Goodyear Hi-Milers
from your Goodyear Dealer.
GOODYEAR
TRUCK & BUS TYRES
10AL1-16.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMMS No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wase men
“An attack of the prevailing
influenza germ coincided with a
cistern breakdown in my bathroom.”
—Letter in “Sunday Sun.”
A case of chain-reaction.
4* 4* 4*
“A woman should never be allowed
to buy her own hat.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
She just crams her head with
nonsense.
4* 4* 4*
“The Ballet of the Satellites”
—koreagraphy by Joseph Stalin.
“The city’s greatest menace is not
the woman with the umbrella.”
—Melbourne “Herald.”
You can put up with her.
•I*
“My boy-friend tells me I have
the most expressive eyes he has ever
seen.”— Letter in Sydney “D.T.”
The good-looking type, ap-
parently.
•I* 4* 4*
“All we women do all our lives,
from cradle to grave, is to try to
uplift men.”
—Letter to Sydney "D.T.”
Often letting themselves get
picked up in the process.
4* 4*4*
“Young businessman requires ur-
gently board, no lunch with respec-
table family.”— Suburban paper.
Determined to feel at home
in the office.
4* 4* 4*
“Ugly girls make the best wives.
—“New Idea.'
They’re accustomed to facing
hardships.
There’s the Rub.
“My husband is so germ-scared
that he wouldn’t dream of using a
box of matches after somebody else
has handled it.”
—Letter to Brisbane paper.
Must we be scared of old
pound-notes.
And balk at handling sprats
and coppers
That go the rounds of vests and
coats,
Or move with gloves our
bottle-stoppers
To suit the whims of germ-
scared goats?
Why, not at all . The bread we
eat
No doubt is swarming with
bacilli.
And every bite of tasty meat
Has germs that feed us willy-
nilly,
But nonetheless is just as sweet.
Yet let us judge the chap aright
Who thinks it needful to
redouble
His care with matches, since his
fright
Of ultimately striking trouble
Is one of which he can't make
light.
BERT.
The Game’s the Thing.
It was Sir Alexander Cadogan,
the British delegate to U.N., who
suggested a round of golf to
Dean Acheson, and Andrei
Gromyko was politely included.
The Soviet Deputy Foreign
Minister happened to be on a fly-
ing visit to Lake Success ostens-
ibly to check up on whether his
successor was really doing his
utmost to make the Security
Council unworkable. Actually
he had come personally to in-
vestigate a secret report sent to
the N.K.V.D. by an agent who
was the personal servant to the
Soviet Ambassador that that
functionary had been heard to
emit an un-Stalinist, pro-demo-
cratic laugh while watching a
most un-Marxist Marx Brothers
film, and also to arrange for a
strengthening of the Embassy’s
espionage branch, whose per-
sonnel was already 75 p.c. of the
Embassy strength.
“Why not?” Gromyko said in
accepting the invitation. “Since
it was a Russian who invented
the game. Saint Andrevski, the
course near Moscow, was the
cradle of Russian golf for five
centuries before the Scots
borrowed both the game and the
name of the course and brazenly
claimed it as their own. just as
the English did radar and tele-
vision and Americans bubble-
gum and the telephone. The
fact that none of the plutocratic
democracies will send a team to
“Looking for something?”
the U.S.S.R. to play our cham-
pions is proof positive that they
are acutely aware of their in-
feriority in the game. Our
national champion, Serge Hook-
off, does a forty quite often for
eighteen holes on a par-seventy
course, and there are dozens
within a stroke or two of him.
But I suppose well have to play
at one of the country clubs, since
you aren’t yet civilised enough
in America to have collectivised
courses,”
At the first tee the Briton and
the American got fair woods
away; then Gromyko teed up,
took a few practice swishes a
foot from the ball, moved in,
placed the face of his wood care-
fully behind the ball, got his
grip to his satisfaction, took a
look at the distant green, then
made a terrific swing, missing
the ball by a good inch. Re-
covering his balance and with-
out turning a hair, he said:
“Well, that’s enough addressing
it. I’m holding the game up.
Let’s see if I can beat your
drive, comrades.”
Gromyko’s iron shot from the
fairway landed flush in the
middle of some thick rough ; but
Cadogan had pin-pointed it. He
and Acheson made straight for
the rough and were poking
around looking for it when they
were hailed by Gromyko, who
was in the middle of the fairway
and just taking his hand out of
his pocket.
“Look,” he said, pointing to
a ball that was still slightly rol-
ling, “my ball. Two blue spots.
I thought my controlled slice
would bring it back on to the
fairway. My caddy just found
it, didn’t you, Igor?”
The caddy he had specially
brought with him from the
Soviet delegation clicked his
heels together with almost
Prussian precision, and with
that easy manner of equality
that is such a publicised feature
of Soviet life, bowed low from
the waist and said “Yes, your
most serene Excellency,”
At the short second the others
were on the green with their tee-
shots. Gromyko’s fourth shot
found the bunker. When he
asked for his putter the eye-
brows of his fellow-golfers shot
up. Then the Soviet D.F.M.
lifted the ball out of the bunker
and placed it on the edge of the
green.
“I say,” said Cadogan politely.
“That really isn’t done, you
know. You have to explode it
out, and you mustn’t ground
your club or it’s a penalty
of”
“Saint Andrevski’s, the world
altered
authority on the gam »
the rule whtle I m
only last wcck, scu a
evenly. a deca .
™«italktic oractice,”
de^/ fourth putt
f
struck Dean s
was lying ?5 ar sa id the
Bad ’ of State
American Secretary oi
sympathetically. That will cost
you two strokes I think.
“On the contrary, it win cosi
you two for being in the way,
said Gromyko coolly. “That is
one of the Soviet rules, and I
would be lacking in loyalty to
the Fatherland if I were to play
under any others—in fact, it
would be treason.” And as a
further earnest of that beautiful
equality of men that has ob-
tained in the workers’ paradise
since the revolution he barked
an order to his Russian caddy to
mark it down.
At the end of the 18 holes Sir
Alexander and Dean Acheson
had, according to the Russian
caddy’s calculation, which was
the only one Gromyko would
accept, totals in the mid-nineties.
His own card he announced as
58.
“Waal, I’ll be hornswoggled! ”
burst out Dean Acheson, the
niceties of diplomatic usage
temporarily forgotten. “Why!
You took an eleven on the first,
a nine at the second, a thirteen
at the long fifth, a”
The Soviet Deputy Foreign
Minister drew himself up stiffly.
“It’s what I might have expected,
playing with those who live
under an ideology in which lies
are accepted as truth. I’ll be
glad to get back to the U.S.S.R.
where I can be assured I’ll be
playing with fellow -sportsmen!"
BO.
A Sharp Rise.
“The French Academy of Sciences
met privately in Paris to discuss com-
plaints from musicians and singers
that the note la sounded by the
tuning-fork was getting higher.”
This simple fact will not astound
Men of experience who’ve found
How frequently in spite of care
Our efforts to achieve precision
With all the skill man can
envision
End in frustration and despair.
And so musicians shouldn’t
mind
If after many years they find
In tuning-forks an error which
By making la a little sharper
Leaves them a target for the
carper
And in the process queers their
pitch.
Moreover, such a minor change
In modern times should not
seem strange
To thoughtful folk, it seems to
me;
In fact this little alteration
Goes hand in hand with our
inflation
And just puts la in line with te.
D.H.E.


Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACK.SOIS £
osiuuva*
t -o- mm. ,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
KINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
'PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acta like the
hand when placed flat upon the
orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27j), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
a
a
*•*
6
jiW
m
c
! I
y
i -*•
6Y APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
MIS MAJESTY THE KINO
gU p ER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BensonZui Hedges
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
When the perfection of the setting
calls for something of
real character and unquestionable
distinction, you will find
the appropriate cigarette bears
the name of Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London in
keeping with the occasion
when only the best will do •
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
More than once in the past the
handicappers have come in for some
stringent criticism over their seem-
ingly harsh treatment of San
Domenico, but the same sage gentry
were pretty fully vindicated by that
horse’s outstanding performance m
winning Saturday’s £3OOO S.T.C.
Winter Handicap at Rosehill.
To state the case briefly, the track
at Rosehill was possibly the worst on
which racing has been conducted in
a season in which heavy tracks have
been the rule rather than the excep-
tion ; San Domenico carried 9.5 with
the weights framed on a 6.7 minimum
and with the next in the weights
imported Donegal (9st.), who finished
last; and San Domenico won by four
lengths and clocked 1.341, against
the times of 1.39 i, 1.37 and 1.39£
which were good enough to win other
races over the 7-furlongs journey.
It was a sterling display of sheer
class prevailing in nigh-impossible
conditions. Although not leading,
San Domenico was in a commanding
position all the way, and was being
applauded as the winner very shortly
after they had turned into the straight.
Journalist, carrying 7.9, was second
and High Brow (7st.) third, both
starting at long odds.
While San Domenico’s win was the
highlight of the afternoon, another
attractive sprinting performance was
turned in by the three-year-old
Tornado in downing Grafter and Real
Mark in the 7-furlongs Corinthian
Cup. Tornado was rather at sea in
the early stages, b'ut began to get
into his stride approaching the turn,
and, hitting the front at the top of
the straight, ran out a good winner.
Although, as yet, Tornado has
bumped up against nothing of much
class, he has a remarkable-enough
record; he commenced racing only
in March this year, and has had
seven starts for seven wins. Prior
to Saturday he had raced at Scone
and Quirindi. Tornado, who was
ridden in the Corinthian by Mr. H.
Thompson, is a bay gelding by im-
ported Whirlaway out of the Brueghel
mare Perception.
The Merrylands Mixed Stakes
proved singularly aptly named; it
produced one of the merriest mix-
ups of the season. Trouble com-
menced when New Look, which was
the logical favorite, was posted as a
non-starter. In the absence of New
Look, Burncourt was just as logical
a favorite, and bookies and punters
proceeded to operate accordingly.
Then New Look’s name was put back
on the board as a starter, and chaos
reigned supreme. Faced with a
potential riot, stewards acted promptly
to declare a fresh start —all bets on
and starting time of the race put
back 15 minutes. But what woe tor
those who rushed in their hundreds
to transfer their bets from Burncourt
to New Look; in a splendid finish
Burncourt defeated the 5-to-4 favorite
New Look by a head.
The result of the Merrylands was
representative of another phase of the
season’s racing. Burncourt was rid-
den try N. Sellwood and New Look
by W. Cook, and that is how the
boys finished in the jockeys’ premier-
ship. Sellwood concluded the season
with the fine tally of 66 winners.
Then followed Cook (41), G. Moore
(34£), J. Thompson (30), R. Selkrig
(24 and easily the leading appren-
tice) and A. Podmore (20). Thomp-
son has been absent in Ireland for
some months, and Moore in America
for some weeks; apart from them,
the riders mentioned above domi-
nated the whole season’s racing as
they did Saturday’s. Cook landed
two winners, taking the Rose-
hill Handicap on Anthelion and the
Auburn Mixed on Hal, both favorites.
Arthur Podmore’s contribution was
the winning of the Two-year-old
Handicap on Aerofoil, and Selkrig
gave the bookies an end-of-the-season
treat by landing the Welter on the
50-to-l chance Scottish Custom, an
imported three-year-old son of Pre-
cipitation and having only his second
outing here.
* * * *
Highlight of the racing world in
Melbourne last week was the belated
discovery by some keen student that
jockey J. Purtell, whose race against
time in pursuit of Bill Duncan’s
record number of winners for a season
had been followed with mounting
interest for several weeks, was, in
point of fact, pursuing a record
which didn’t exist. The true position,
it appears, was that Duncan had held
the record, with a tally of 57 win-
ners notched up in 1924-25. In the
1941-42 season Harold Badger set
new figures, with 57 outright winners
and two deadbeats. Purtell had
equalled Badger’s record some weeks
back, but had been unable to improve
upon it prior to Saturday. The last
day of the season, at Moonee Valley,
however, saw Purtell ride a winner
to set a new record, and then, for
good measure, kick home another,
thus, in any case, bettering the 58
erroneously attributed to Duncan.
The win which first gave Purtell
the record was as thrilling as could
be desired of a record-breaking per-
formance. As the Glen Orla Handi-
cap field turned into the short Moonee
Valley straight Purtell’s mount, Sun
Frolic, was simply not in the picture.
Then, with the crowd hailing favorite
Vantage as the winner nearing the
post, Sun Frolic suddenly flashed up
from nowhere, to score by a half-
neck ; Dutchman ran third. Purtell’s
later winner was a different tale;
starting equal-favorite, the Ruthless
colt All Hope had an easy victory
over Prince Noel! and Dusky Jewel
in the 6-furlongs Derrimut Handicap.
Following Purtell in the premier-
ship were W. Williamson with 54|
wins, R. Hutchinson (30) and W. A.
Smith (21); all were in the money
on Saturday. Williamson won the
first Coo-ee Handicap for two-year-
olds on the odds-on favorite, Qustar,
who was surprisingly hard-pressed to
beat the Portfolio colt Sambreport.
Hutchinson and W. A. Smith ac-
counted for, respectively, the first and
second divisions of the mile Sunset
Welter, Hutchinson winning on Per-
form and Smith on Kendee, whose
run was particularly impressive. The
remaining flat event was the second
division of the Coo-ee Handicap,
which went to Sun March, ridden
by A. Burton.
Backers of favorites took a pasting
from both legs of Saturday’s jumping
double, and the cross-country events
did little to clarify prospects for the
forthcoming Australian Hurdle and
Steeple. Favorite for the Mia Mia
Hurdle was the Australian Hurdle
fancy King’s Walk, who broke down
a mile from home. The subsequent
winner of the Mia Mia was the South
Australian jumper Tuckout, who beat
Foxen in a photo-finish, with Mid-
hurst third. Tuckout was ridden by
B. R. Smith, giving that rider his
10th winner for the season and
the cross-country riders’ premiership;
Ron Hall was closest to him with
eight wins. Smith went close to
making it a double for the last day
of the season, but his mount, Niblik,
was beaten two lengths in the £2OOO
A. V. Hiskins Steeple, and a protest
against the winner, Jung Bahadur,
was unsuccessful.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances) :
Three-year-old Quality: Nirandoli,
1; Panama, 2; Regal Gold, 3.
Auburn Mixed: Gene Tunney, 1;
Tahlee, 2; Port Rion, 3. Parramatta
Mixed: New Look, 1; Matinee, 2;
Fairholme, 3. S.T.C. Cup: Buonar-
roti Boy, 1; Chatspa, 2; Anthelion,
3. Flying: Blue Flag, 1; Salamanca,
2; Tornado, 3. Welter: lolanda, 1;
Caribbean, 2; Scottish Custom, 3.
What devilment are English cricket
authorities planning for Australia
now? Harold Larwood has infiltrated
our midst in the guise of a migrant,
and now the M.C.C. announces that
Fred Brown, another of Jardine’s
1932 commandos, is to captain Eng-
land on the forthcoming tour. ’Tis a
plot, egad!
Despite plenty of criticism on the
score, the M.C.C. selectors stuck,
firmly to their principle that none but
an amateur shall lead England. How-
ever, they had to scratch round in the
barrel a bit to find their man. Both
Yardley and Mann declined the honor
“Now well start on y’r legs.”
(a fact which surely need not have
been made public), but Brown played
himself into calculations with a first-
class all-round performance in the
Gentlemen v. Players match last
week, and accepted the dubious honor
of being third choice. Now rising
40, Brown, as mentioned, toured here
18 years ago, but was not picked for
any of the Tests, and didn’t other-
wise distinguish himself. He was in
the Forces throughout the war, and
has only recently recommenced play-
ing first-class cricket. In the Gents
v. Players fixture Brown, for the
gentry of course, went in No. 8,
with only 194 showing on the board,
and proceeded to belt up 122 of the
131 added while he was on the job.
Following that effort, he showed him-
self equally handy with the ball,
having to his credit at one stage three
wickets for 10 runs off seven overs.
Players in the first batch named to
tour with Brown are: A. V. Bedser,
D. C. Compton, T. G. Evans, L.
Hutton, C. Washbrook, D. V. Wright,
T. E. Bailey, J. G. Dewes, W. E.
Hollies, W. G. Parkhouse and R. T.
Simpson. Five players are yet to be
chosen.
* * * *
Evidently expecting the Mexicans
to be a tougher proposition than the
Canadians, Australian Davis Cup
team captain Harry Hopmari sub-
stituted the wily veteran Bromwich
for young McGregor as the second
singles player in the American zone
final played at Mexico City at the
weekend. Sedgman, of course, was
the No. 1 string, and did his job
comfortably, serving 14 aces in the
process of beating Gustavo Palafox
6-4, 6-4, 6-2. Bromwich, in his first
match, devoted one set, which he
lost 3-6, to summing up his opponent,
Armando Vega; then he treated
Armando to the works, 6-0, 6-2, 6-2.
Both teams stuck to their singles
players for the doubles, and Brom-
wich-Sedgman clinched the tie by
downing the Mexicans, 6-4, 7-5, 6-2,
The Australians’ next, and final,
hurdle prior to the challenge round
will be against Sweden, which defeated
Denmark in the European zone-final.
* * * *
The V.F.L. enters the last weeks
of the season with a clear-cut “four”
for the finals—Essendon, North Mel-
bourne, Melbourne and Geelong,
though Collingwood, Carlton, Rich-
mond and St. Kilda, on points, each
have a chance to make it before the
finals begin. The three leaders are
well ahead on points, and with Col-
lingwood handed Hawthorn for
slaughter next Saturday, Melbourne
due at Geelong, the game of the day
in the Yarra city will be Richmond
and Carlton. Last Saturday, while
numbers of their mates were plough-
ing about in the Brisbane mud or
homing from the Brisbane Carnival,
Collingwood staged a bright recovery
to beat Carlton, 17.14-12.7; South
Melbourne, though attenuated by
sickness and injury, beat St. Kilda,
13.10-10.18; and Footscray very
nearly gave Hawthorn its first win
of the season, escaping from the
ignominy by two points—ll.l4 to
11.12.
* * * *
“Pass-it” reviews the Rugby Union
situation:
Last Saturday’s competition saw
the hitherto undisputed leader, Gor-
don, dragged back and now sharing
the lead with Manly. Gordon only
managed to draw with Wests, and,
from a competition viewpoint, Manly
and Easts are playing the best foot-
ball at this vital stage.
In the match between Easts and
Randwick, Easts adopted the long
line-out, so giving their forwards the
chance of starting a foot-rush with
the ball at the toe. With all grounds
absolute bogs, and looking likely to
continue so, these are very effective
tactics, and it is pleasing to see at
least one team realising their possi-
bilities. Another prominent feature
of East’s game was the attacking
spirit which was so evident in the
mid-field play. The player who im-
pressed most was inner-centre J.
Lazarus, while at the same time five-
eighth Tate always offered handy sup-
port.
With much speculation as to who
will win the premiership, present
observer is of the opinion that it
will be between Manly and Easts.
With two successive defeats and a
draw to its discredit, Gordon begins
to look scarcely a premiership team.
Gordon drew 6-all with Wests on
Saturday, while in other matches
Easts beat Randwick, 14-3; Manly
downed Eastwood, 14-10; Drum-
moyne whitewashed University, 6-0;
and Norths presumably kalsomined
Parramatta, 22-0.


#%*
_
NtffygOri
when asked his greatest foe,
Replied; "The only enemy I know
And fear, is he who comes with
sleet and snow —
Midwinter.”
So now when in his strength and might
That foe sweeps on us swift to smite.
We seek protection where ’tis sure.
By using Woods’ Great Peppermint Core.
0S
m
m
ALL KINDS OF
FISHING TACKLE!
For river, beach and deep
sea fishermen. English and
French NYLON LINES...
hunting knives . . . smokers’
requisites. Write for new
fishing catalogue, now avail-
able.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George St., Sydney.
Phone M6261.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
WH
m
m
■■
i
-V,- -■
-■ u
X- :;r{ ; :
00
9JI !M Smouaj
SJ.HOVSAH
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd
Reg'd Office & Works, BlackwaU Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
The Case for Open Faces.
“Murrawong”i Some years
ago a long-range experiment was
started in Idaho (U.S.A.) on the
comparative merits of plain-
bodied and developed sheep, with
particular emphasis on open
versus woolly faces. The sheep
were Rambouillet Merinos and
the findings are of interest.
It was agreed that, other
things being equal, the open-
faced sheep had many advan-
tages over the woolly-faced. A
few months after shearing the
latter is wool-blind. He can’t
forage like the sheep with full
vision, and in hot, droughty
weather the wool-blind sheep,
separated from the mob, is the
first to become a casualty from
lack of feed and water.
Grass-seed collects in the face-
wool and works its way into the
eyes, completing the blinding
operation and setting up a highly
attractive condition to flystrike.
Further, the wool grown on the
face and legs is short and wasty,
and most of it finds its way at
shearing into the locks. Sheep
that are subject to wool-blindness
need attention with shears two
or three times a year between
shearings.
In the American experiment
the Merinos were classed into
three groups: (1) woolly-faces;
(2) intermediate and (3) open-
faced. Group 1 was associated
with woolly legs and neck folds,
while group 3 were compara-
tively plain-bodied with little
frontal development. All sheep
were weighed regularly, fleeces
were weighed and information
gathered regarding yield, quality
and length of staple. As ewes
were used in the experiment,
further statistics were obtained
on breeding and lamb production
which yielded some interesting
facts.
By Australian standards, prac-
tically all the Rambouillets in-
volved would be classed as
lightly woolled on the legs. On
the other hand, many grew wool
to the tip of the nose, resembling
the Vermonts which have been
our blowfly targets for so many
years.
Results of wool production
showed very little difference be-
tween the three groups. Average
fleece weights (greasy) of the
open-faced sheep was 8.691 b.;
intermediates B.Bllb. and woolly-
faces 9.061 b. On a scoured
basis, however, the intermediate
group took the lead, although
the margin was slight and they
were also ahead in staple length,
but on the whole the margins
were insignificant and no ad-
vantage in wool production
could be claimed for any one
group. The open-faced sheep
were therefore as valuable as
wool-growers as the woolly-
faces.
Over the test period of nine
years figures showed that the
open-faced sheep were better
mothers, reared more lambs and,
based on lamb weights at wean-
ing, produced a higher average
weight of lamb per head than
the other groups. It was noted
by a comparison made at wean-
ing that ram lambs were in-
clined to carry more wool on the
face than ewe lambs, a fact that
will be confirmed by Australian
breeders.
Woolly-faces can be bred out
of sheep, according to the
American experiment, without
loss of fleece production. One
of the chief reasons why we
haven’t more wool-blind sheep in
Australia is that their mortality
rate is much higher.
For generations we have been
trying to increase Merino-wool
production by breeding sheep
with greater wool-producing
areas. The fashionable sheep
today, however, is plain-bodied
—we can lay much of the
responsibility for that on the
blowfly. We know that while
wrinkles and folds may mean
more wool-growing area it does
not necessarily mean a greater
degree of density of wool fibres
per square inch, and, further,
the fleece of the highly-
developed animal is likely to be
much more uneven in quality
and staple length and lower in
clean scoured yield.
We are inclined to link open
faces in sheep with a general
shrinkage evidenced in bare
legs, extensive bare skin inside
forearm and thighs and thin
short belly wool. According to
the American experiment, this
fear is without foundation. Have
we any records of parallel work
done with the Australian
Merino?
The Channel Country.
“Outback”: Graziers who
have spent most of their lives on
the channel country of far-
western Queensland are not
nearly so enthusiastic regarding
the potentialities of that area as
are some politicians and the
Australian Meat Board. They
are, however, pleased to see the
board and the Governments
taking a more, active interest in
its development.
Miss L. Duncan, who has
managed Mooraberrie, west of
Windorah, since the death of her
father, and whose family has
been on Mooraberrie for over
half a century, said it was very
misleading to give the public the
impression that when roads and
rail links are provided the
channel country will become a
cattleman’s paradise. Good
roads and rail links were badly
needed, and would be very much
appreciated, but the rainfall was
too uncertain for the country to
produce the fantastic quantities
of beef which some Press reports
“I wish you'd learn to shut the door after you , Dad."
had mentioned is the potential
output.
It was obvious, she said, that
today the channel country is not
producing to its maximum
capacity, owing to the shortage
of essential materials and labor,
but only one good season
in seven it could never be de-
veloped to the extent envisaged
in some production forecasts.
The graziers themselves would
see that that country was de-
veloped to its maximum capacity
if the Governments would see
that they got labor, materials,
decent roads and mail services,
reduced rail freights and road-
transport costs. At present high
transport costs made the de-
velopment of properties very
costly, even when labor and
materials were available.
On top of the high rail freight
from Brisbane to Quilpie, it cost
£l4 per ton to transport goods
by road from Quilpie to Moora-
berrie, and it was not uncom-
mon for rail freight and road
transport to cost more than the
goods.
There was an impression
abroad, said Miss Duncan, that
cattlemen today were very pros-
perous, but they were more
prosperous after World War I,
when cattle prices were high and
production costs probably one-
third or one-half what they are
today. Miss Duncan thinks that
transport of fat cattle from
property to railhead by road-
train, assuming a good road was
available, would be too costly.
With three floods in the Dia-
mantina River this year, grass
growth has been slow, but it is
now coming along, and in the
spring pastures should be very
good. All cattle in the district,
which is enjoying its best sea-
son since 1921, are in excellent
condition.
Hybrid Maize.
“C.S.”: Chief facts prominent
in this year’s Sydney R.A.S.
maize contests are the outstand-
ing success of the hybrid strains
and the exceptionally high yields
obtained with them and tne
value of a legume rotation in
keeping up soil-fertility, accom-
panied by early and thorough
soil preparation. , H
Of the 15 awards made 11
were hybrids and four of the
open pollinated strains Three
of the latter were on the South
Coast, for which area a mid-
season hybrid has not yet been
produced. The only other place
occupied by an open pollinated
was a third award in the North
Coast competition. Seven of the
crops closely followed lucerne,
three immediately followed
either cowpeas, beans or peas
and three a mixed pasture of
grass and clover.
The old practice of following
maize after maize for many
years has given place to rota-
tions with legumes, resulting in
heavier crops, less disease, im-
proved physical condition and
fertility of the soil. These com-
petitions have frequently indi-
cated the benefit of the employ-
ment of good soil preparation,
the value of legumes in rotation
with maize and the use of recom-
mended varieties. In this regard
the series of competitions just
ended provides ample proof.
Flavored Milk.
“Rooster”: There’s no excuse
for it, yet it’s common. Off-
flavors are under two headings:
(a) in milk fresh from the cow,
( b ) in milk which is left stand-
ing for some time. In the fresh
product the trouble originates
from a faulty udder, feed taints,
or the use of milk from freshly-
calved or late-lactation cows.
Milk left standing can be con-
taminated by ineffective cooling,
bacterial action resulting from
indifferent cleansing methods, or
by odors produced by strong-
smelling surroundings.
Udder troubles tend to pro-
duce sliminess in cream, while
general ill-health will give a
sickly taste. Isolate the affected
animal and dispose of the milk
until the ailment is remedied.
Rank pastures, rape, lucerne,
clover, capeweed, turnips, etc.,
all result in milk taints. The
remedy is simple; remove the
stock from this sort of feed at
least three hours before milking.
.Other bad odors result from
failure properly to wash and
sterilise the separator, unclean
utensils, dirty leg-ropes
and cow-sheds, mouldy
hay, petrol and oil fumes,
stagnant water, odorous
ointments and a general
carelessness in personal or
operative hygiene. Mixing
hot with cold cream is also
bad management, equally
conducive to tainting as a
faulty cooling-system.
Thoroughly cool all
cream before mixing and
keep stirring at regular
intervals. Failure causes
the butterfat to rise to the
top, leaving the milk serum
at the bottom. The result
is sourness. Regular stir-
ring assists temperature re-
duction and offsets bac-
terial growth. See that the
washing-up water is clean;
some tanks are exposed to
wind-blown manurial dust.
Don’t separate colostrum for at
least a week after calving; it is
low in fat and high in albumin
and will certainly down-grade, if
not entirely spoil, the whole of
the cream in bulk.
Kerosene and crude-oil en-
gines for driving milking-
machines should be partitioned
off with a fume-proof wall from
both cow-shed and separator-
room. Arrange the engine ex-
haust so that the prevailing
winds do not blow the fumes
through ventilators or windows.
Where the roof of a dairy is
used as a water catchment the
exhaust may also contaminate
the roof, thus tainting the water.
These are simple enough faults
to remedy, and make all the
difference between choice and
inferior cream.
Green-manuring.,
“Hortus”: Fertilisers,especially
those containing nitrogen, are
hard to get. If procurable they
are often uneconomical. There’s
nothing like a catchcrop between


JODHPURS
and
BREECHES
tailored to your own
measurements.
Men and women in the saddle appre-
ciate the comfort of well-fitting riding
garments. Allan & Stark riding gar-
ments are cut by Mr. A. McGoggan,
who is recognised as one of Aus-
tralia’s leading breeches tailors. A
self measurement chart specially com-
piled for country clients guarantees
complete satisfaction from your own
measurements and without a fitting.
Allan & Stark will be pleased to send
sample of riding material and a self
measurement chart to any part of
Australia. Write today to —
ALLAN & STARK
Leading Departmental Store,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NTT liquid NU-METAT,
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while yon drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles! and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934.
many owners having nsed NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mall Orders post free. C.O.D.’js plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
1 enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me Illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name..................
Address
r B. 2/8/’5O
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House*
JL47 Elizabeth Street# Sydney# MA 7250.
tevitf
r
i
BLOTCHY
SKIN
marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cuticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
i of the famous trio- Cuticura
\ Ointment, Soap and
f]\ Talcum Powder... 533
im
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
Use
ONLY
5si&SS
1
S
a
i
EUSTR4TOR
I
I
I
«
I
1
iRECD. TRADE MARK)
I
i
unbreakable
RINGS
*
i
i
I
I
■
I
I
il
Tke drte&tltutt
i>
i
I
A Product of ELASTRATOR (Aust.) PTY. LTD.
EL9
■ £L
m
■v> .
f-.X
r^w/'W I \UJdtfrJ % •■’ V \bK V
J/W
V : s
/ K
««5
8*
n
)|
1 'i ft ///
X
3§-j|»////'^^i
fcf r t *r*frf W
’• wytf:py t
i i>i, rV
'.Si r , , if/'*.:.
'/■!: . a
VSV4
'.ii ■;.
4^U|sr%&
:
83^*
;?*!:•is*! i.-jftfe,
- !’'■•' --A-
>’:
£1
is*
'// , iVli! ;
'//''?.s•; iff?;'*
"jr.
r
A
2^
ii
A
/
■
&
J * i
- * V
35 ;
TU-fwaia
M?1g13!5
THE BRAND WITH A PEDIGREB
two other crops to keep the soil’s
plant food up to scratch.
Vetches or cow - peas are
good. Say an average yield per
acre of cow-peas is 1\ tons. This
turned under would add to the
soil per acre 1061 b. of nitrogen,
221 b. of phosphoric acid, 7?ilb.
of potash, the equivalent of
about 4cwt. of sulphate of
ammonia per acre. This is of
special value in orcharding. A
fairly large proportion of our
citrus orchards are in sandy-
loam country, and this turned-
in crop gives the soil a “body”
and helps to retain the moisture
longer.
Watch your time, however, for
green-manuring. You must have
warmth and moisture. A crop
ploughed under in late autumn
or winter will nitrify only
slightly. The same applies to
ploughing-under in a dry sea-
son.
In sandy soil green manure
nitrifies more rapidly than
manures like bone-dust and
blood-bone and only less slowly
than sulphate of ammonia. In
stiff clay soils the green crop
nitrifies very much more rapidly
than either sulphate of ammonia
or even animal manures.
New Drug.
“Oxo”: American scientists
have found accidentally that the
comparatively new drug aureo-
mycin speeds up growth of ani-
mals to such an extent that it
could revolutionise livestock
production principles. Until re-
j cently the drug was used solely
for fighting diseases, and tests
on pigs, chickens and turkeys
showed that they registered un-
precedented gains when fed
minute quantities of the drug as
a powder in their feed.
Late growth in pigs increased
by up to 50 per cent., and the
average gain in trials lasting two
years in a dozen States was 15
per cent.
The drug, like penicillin, is
obtained from a mould, and it
can be sold for about 2s. 6d. per
lb. ; 51b. is sufficient for a ton
of feed.
The Farmers’ Union of Eng-
land was told that America had
flatly refused to grant a British
firm the right to manufacture
aureomycin in England.
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”: Plan windbreaks
for an orchard to give maximum
protection, but be careful not to
plant trees too close in the row
and thus prevent normal air
drainage. Between breakwind
and first rows of fruit-trees
leave a 30-40 ft. headland to
avoid root interference,
“Wilco”; Most owners know
about feeling dogs for ticks
every second day, but many do
not look for a baby tick close
by the large female. This fel-
low, if overlooked, will kill thf
dog. I have never known a tick
to cause paralysis in a dog unles:
it were buried in the head o
neck or between the toes, bu\
they cause severe irritation else-
where.
“Plane Creek”: If white-ants
are just starting work on a post
it often suffices to break down
their tunnels and kill a few tc
attract the common black-ants.
These will usually invade the
termites’ workings and devour
the whole colony.
“Vendor”: A lump of un-
salted mutton-fat rolled in brown
paper with the ends open, which
keeps it fresh, and tied with
string, will keep saws, etc., in
good working order. Large nails
can be greased in the roll to
make driving into hardwood
easier,
“K.T.”: Wet weather reduces
egg output, and to help hens
back to normal include maize
(.small grain or cracked) in the
grain ration if possible. Where
rain has cut down green-feed
include vitaminised fish-oils in
the mash.
“Nota Bene”; Overheating of
the car engine can be caused by
clogging of the radiator with
dirt and rust. To clean, pour
several large tablespoonfuls of
ordinary soap-powder into the
radiator, run engine until well
warmed, then run the resultant
suds out. You’ll be surprised
at the dirt and rust that comes
away. Repeat until suds run
clean, then wash out with clean
water. Always fill the radiator
with clean, fresh water, keep
the exterior free of grass-seeds
and insects, and never paint the
core.
“Rooster”: When planting
nursery citrus-trees dig a hole
wide enough to enable the roots
to be well spread out and deep
enough so that the tree can be
set in the ground no deeper than
when it was previously growing.
Lemon-trees in particular are
subject to collar-rot and root-rot
if planted deeply, and it’s a good
idea to plant them on a slight
mound so that later cultivation
up to the tree won’t cover up
the bud union. After planting
cut back the top growth and
remove shoots.
“Keekwun”: To trap foxes,
bury some rotten eggs in a line
of five or six shallow holes.
Break an egg in each batch. The
foxes find them and dig them up.
Then repeat with another row
of baited holes and trap in the
centre. Put plenty of ripe eggs
into the trapped hole to ensure
that the fox circles to get at
them. Don’t worry about leav-
ing your scent. The gas from
an over-ripe egg penetrates the
soil and smothers every other
smell.


A century ago the Great Exhibition of 1851
drew visitors to Britain from all over the
world. Next year’s Festival, to commemorate
that event, will in its turn be remembered
a hundred years from now, long after the
headlines of today are forgotten.,
The coming Festival is the greatest ever
planned. The 1851 Exhibition was confined to
London, and its keynote was industrial pro-
gress ; the Festival of Britain 1951 will be
spread throughout the United Kingdom and
will put the whole nation on show.
Exhibitions in London, Glasgow and Belfast will
tell the story of Britain’s contribution to civilisation
in Science, Invention, Industry and Architecture.
In addition, twenty-three centres throughout
England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland will
hold Festivals of the Arts.
In support of this official programme there will
be something of interest for the visitor to see in
cities, towns and villages all over the country—from
carnivals, exhibitions, pageants and traditional
ceremonies to sporting events of all kinds.
From May to September 1951, for five packed
months, wherever he goes the visitor will find
BRITAIN AT HOME TO THE WORLD
Further details of the Festival Programme mil be
published in this journal over the next six months.
Divorce Notices.
TO JOANNA JOSEPHINE GLOSSOP
address unknown Married Woman. —
TAKE NOTICE that HORACE
EMANUEL GLOSSOP of Carnarvon in the
State of Western Australia Diesel Engi-
neer claiming to be lawfully married to
you has commenced an action and filed
a claim against you in the Supreme Court
of Western Australia (Matrimonial Causes
No. 335 of 1950) for a Dissolution of
Marriage on the ground of your adultery
with DUDLEY WILLIAM COLLINS
ROBERTSON Co-Defendant If you desire
to defend the said action you must within
forty days (40) clear after the date of
the publication of this Notice file in the
Central Office of the Supreme Court Perth
a Statement of your Defence to the Plain-
tiff’s claim or a counterclaim for any
relief to which you are entitled In de-
fault of your so doing the said HORACE
EMANUEL GLOSSOP may proceed in the
action and the Court may hear evidence
and judgment may be given in your
absence A copy of the Writ of Summons
with the Statement of Claim endorsed may
be obtained by you free of charge on
application to the undersigned Solicitors
for the Plaintiff. DATED the 13th day
of "July, 1950.—G. J. BOYLSON, Regis-
trar. MESSRS. SPEED & CANTOR, Pad-
bury Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff herein.
TO DUDLEY WILLIAM COLLINS ROB-
ERTSON address unknown Jeweller and
Watchmaker.—TAKE NOTICE that
FRANCES AMY ROBERTSON of 85 Hill
View Road Mt. Lawley in the State, of
Western Australia Married Woman claim-
ing to be lawfully married to you has
commenced an action and filed a claim
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia (Matrimonial Causes
No. 255 of 1950) for a Dissolution of
Marriage on the ground of your adultery
with JOANNA JOSEPHINE GLOSSOP Co-
Defendant If you desire to defend the
said action you must within forty days
(40) clear after the date of the publica-
tion of this Notice file in the Central'
Office of the Supreme Court Perth i state-
ment of your Defence to the Plaintiff’s
claim or a counterclaim for any relief
to which you are entitled In default of
your so doing the said FRANCES AMY
ROBERTSON may proceed in the action
and the Court may hear evidence and
judgment may be given in your absence
A copy of the Writ of Summons with
the Statement of Claim endorsed may be
obtained by you free of charge on appli-
cation to the undermentioned Solicitors
for the Plaintiff. DATED the 13th day
of July, 1950. G; J. BOYLSON, Regis-
trar. MESSRS. SPEED & CANTOR,
Padbury Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff herein.
-INSURANCE —for your protection -
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Eong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £11,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
A FENCE FOR EMMA
BY JOAN WISE
THE fight all began in the
bar of Smith’s pub when
the boys got talking on
education.
Moss Jones, a cow-cocky
rabbit-trapper, got boasting as to
what it had done for him.
Certainly he’d had one over the
eight, but Moss was a natural
leg-puller.
All his learning, he claimed,
had come from books. Hadn’t
he taught Sam’s wife Emmie to
read, and what was she doing
with her education now? Why,
she was making herself a
garden—and all by reading the
“Leader and Weekly Times”!
Sam, who had
foraged for himself
almost since birth, re-
sented Moss’s inclu-
sion of Emmie in the
conversation. Having
had no “eddication,”
as he called it, himself
he gave Moss an
upper-cutter, then and
there, just to show him.
In the end the whole bar was
involved, and it was Emmie her-
self, then only a slip of a girl,
with her dark eyes blazing and
her young mouth firmly set, who
had pushed Sam and Moss,
along with her two children and
all the groceries, into the back
of Moss’s spring-dray,
“I’ll learn you to spend all
me trapping money, Sam Creese.
It was to buy netting and staples
for the new fence to go around
me garden. Thought I could
trust ’im with you, Moss” —her
voice was savage with reproach.
“Pair of greedy guzzlers!”
Moss could only splutter,'and
Sam couldn’t even do that, so
Emmie said no more. It did
seem a bit mean, now that they
both out to it.
She rescued what money was
left in Sam’s pocket, bought
Johnnie, Maggie and herself an
ice-cream and a meat-pie each.
After all they had earned it.
Then she snatched the reins
from Moss’s uncertain hands
and they set off on the long and
weary journey home.
YES, Emmie wanted a garden.
It was all very well to read
about yitamins for children and
how to conserve them in vege-
tables. What if you had no
vegetables and lived too far
away to buy any? She didn't
want her children to grow up
long, skinny and hungry like
Sam. There was nothing for it
but to grow some.
Sam had been much easier to
manage when they had been
courting. He had even been
easygoing when Moss was
courting her, too. “Thinks he’s
got me where he wants me!”
Emmie’s thoughts ran on resent-
fully. Yes, she must see that the
fence was built, and built by
Sam. She must show Moss that
he was wrong about Sam.
Hadn’t he built a house for her
last winter!
Wearily Emmie unhitched the
mailbag from off the post on
the edge of the Lyall Highway
and turned the horses along the
Strickland road. Sam was really
the mail-carrier; here she was
doing his job again. She waited
while the postmistress sorted
the mail. Her seeds had come,
also a letter from her mother.
Emmie’s mother and father
lived six scrubs back on the
slopes of Table Mountain, and
ran a small mixed farm. A con-
tinuous irritation to Emmie,
with their tidy little income.
“Your Dad says it’s time you
and the nippers came home to
see us,” wrote her mother.
“The place is et out by
kangaroos and the possums
have et all your Dad’s turnips.
He is going crook. You could
make a nice bit with the trappin’
for yourself if you was to come
for a month. Your loving
Mum.”
“That was good of Mum,
after all the things she had said
about Sam,” thought Emmie as
she tucked the letter down the
front of her blouse.
By this time the children were
crying with discomfort and
Moss and Sam were both show-
ing signs of activity. Emmie
urged the horse over the last
half-mile.
“Milk Strawberry and feed
the pigs, you two!” She flung
the words at Moss and Sam as
they climbed unsteadily out of
the cart. She had better sober
Moss up a bit. Give him some
tea before he went home to his
old man.
EMMIE had lit the fire and
had both the children in
bed before Sam and Moss,
mumbling to each other, came
in.
“Now no jawing ; I’ve had
you both,” she said as she
slammed a dish of cold kangaroo
down on the table. Moss gave
her a half-baked look and
grinned. Sam ponderously cut
slices of kangaroo and re-
marked “You started the blasted
garden, anyway.”
“Well! You wouldnt want
your kids growing up like you,
you grass-seed,” Emmie re-
torted bitterly.
“For all the plants you puts
in you haven’t got a garden
until you got a fence.” Moss
couldn’t keep out of any argu-
ment.' “Would you like me to
build it for you? You’ll have
to hurry with the posts. I m
going back to me fishing next
month,”
“It’ll be done before next
month, won’t it, Sam? And
without your help. Moss Jones!”
Sam grunted unwilling agree-
ment.
“And the winter’s wood, too,
taunted Moss. “Will that be in
before I’m gorn? And what
about this hole in the chimney:
“Hullo, sweetie-pie—guess where ?”
would you like me to fix that
too while I’m about it?”
“Shut up, can’t you!” Emmie
broke in furiously. “Sam’s got
his plans all laid out to git it
done, ain’t you, Sam? And take
that silly grin orf your face.”
Sam sullenly looked down at
his plate. These wimmen!
Always full of fancy ideas, and
always nagging about some-
thing! He was almost reluctant
to see Moss go. Only too well
he remembered last mail-day,
when he had come in starving,
to find all the dinner on the
stove uncooked, the kids howling
with hunger and Emmie refus-
ing to budge an inch until he,
Sam, had gone out into the
bush and chopped a woodheap-
ful of wood. What was wrong
with the woman!
“Now,” said Emmie, turning
wrathfully to Sam, “fancy you
sitting there saying nothing to
back me up. Promising to
build me a fence, promising to
get in the wood and promising
to mend the ’ole in the fireplace.
Promising! Promising! Promis-
ing! And letting Moss laugh at
us. Sam, I’m going ’ome to me
mother ’till you’ve done your
jobs.” %
Before she went Emmie redug
her garden where the cow had
padded it down and sowed vege-
table-seeds in neat little rows.
THE house was dull without
Emmie and the kids clatter-
ing about. Sam mended the
back of the fireplace; then, fed
up with being alone, he took to
dropping in, sometimes for a
whole day, on Moss and his old
man. The old man was no
longer lonely; he had Moss.
Moss was such a constant re-
minder of the fence and the
empty woodheap that before long
Same went uncomfortably back
to work.
Emmie had been away for
four weeks when a message
through the skinbuyer came
from Sam to say that the fence
was finished. She sold her skins,
packed up the children and, with
a nice bundle of notes tucked
down th§s front of her blouse,
went home.
There was her new fence.
Certainly Sam had been a bit
mean with the garden space. It
was only half as big as she had
marked out. But this was no
skimpy brushwood fence as he
usually made. It was built with
substantial logs. Logs which
only the two bullocks could have
dragged into position. Piled
high enough and packed close
enough to block out the most
intrepid boundary-jumping kan-
garoo and the skinniest rabbit.
“Oh, Sam, it’s lovely; I knew
you’d do it.” Emmie’s face
glowed with pride and satisfac-
tion. “Has Moss seen it?”
“He helped me drag in some
of them logs afore he went
away.” Sam looked guilelessly
up at Emmie. “Moss didn’t
reckon we’d need to be usin’ any
of them big logs until next
winter. By then all your garden
will be over.”
Emmie busied herself happily
with the tea. It wasn’t until the
next morning, when angrily she
surveyed the still-empty wood-
heap, that the significance of
Sam’s remark struck home.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of,
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas’* has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
P. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
FHCIHB 0 PARK
The one thing you will tanme*
dialely notice when you stay at
the Wentworth Is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a part . . . yet
it is merely "round the comer”
from the centre of the city. The
looms ate all you would wish
• . . the service and cuisine
excellent
THE WENTWORTH
in
Thono BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
If any illustration in
“THE BULLETIN” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for
the original.
urgent: to holders of
COMMONWEALTH 4e% SECURITIES ISSUED IN
AUGUST, 1931, MATURING IN AUGUST, 1950,
OR SECURITIES ISSUED IN MARCH, 1940,
AND MATURING IN AUGUST, 1950-56.
These
securities
mature on
August 13
IMMEDIATE ACTION NEEDED TO PREVENT
INTERRUPTION TO YOUR INTEREST PAYMENTS
If you hold Bonds or Inscribed Stock in either of
the maturing issues identified above, you can pre-
vent any interruption to the interest they earn by
converting them into Tenth Security Loan Bonds or
Inscribed Stock at once. (Attention is directed
specially to the fact that the 3|% Securities issued
in March, 1940, will be redeemed on August 15,
1950, instead of August 15, 1956, the Treasurer
. having exercised his option in that regard. It is
important to note that the 3f% Securities due
1950-56 must be converted now or redeemed.) All
the information you need about the conversion of
your maturing Securities is given in the. column on
the right of this announcement. Study these
directions now.
Concert
TOUR MATURING COMMONWEALTH SECURITIES INTO THE
Tenth
Security
Loan
New Issues
AVAILABLE TO CASH INVESTORS
Intended primarily to give holders of maturing
Commonwealth Securities the opportunity to
renew their investment, the Tenth Security lcmi
also provides for the acceptance of new cash. It
therefore gives Australia’s savers—r-everyone with
£lO or more available—the to share
the many advantages offered. Early, application is
advisable. See'column on right for full informa-
tion about this Loan and how to invest.
ALL YOU WANT
TO KNOW ABOUT
CONVERSION
OF MATURING
COMMONWEALTH
SECURITIES
These are the issues which
mature on 15th August, 1950:
(1) 31% Bonds and Inscribed
Stock issued in March, 1940. (It
should be specially noted that
the maturity date shown on
these Securities is 15th August,
1950-56, but the Treasurer has
exercised his option to redeem
these Securities on 15th August,
1950, and they are now due for
redemption or conversion on
that date.) y
(2) 4% Bonds and Inscribed
Stock issued in August, 1931,
and maturing in August, 1950.
WHAT TO DO
If you have lodged with your
bank for safe custody more than
£lO worth of any of the Securi-
ties listed above, you should
have received a conversion
application form. If you have
not received such a form, check
the maturity dates of your
Securities in one of the follow-
ing ways:
1. If your Bonds are in your
possession: Look at them at
once and compare the rates and
maturity dates printed at the
top with those indicated above.
2. If you lodged your Bonds
with your bank for safe-keeping:
Most banks issue a receipt or
acknowledgment for Bonds left
with them for safe custody. If
you hold any such receipts,
compare the maturity dates
with those listed above.
3. If you cannot discover
maturity dates: Go to your bank
and ask whether any of the
Securities listed above are held
on your behalf
HOW TO CONVERT
If you find that your Securities
are about to mature ask your
bank or stockbroker for an
application form for conversion
into the Tenth Security Loan.
Fill in one form for each series
of Bonds or Stock maturing
(new 2% Securities are for
£l,OOO and multiples only) and
hand it back. That’s all. You
will then possess Tenth Security
Loan Bonds or Inscribed Stock
of the same value as your
maturing Securities and interest
on your Securities will continue.
CASH
INVESTMENT
TOO
ell as those with maturing
ritles to convert, everyone
buy Bonds (£lO, £5O, 2100,
or £1,000) or Inscribed
c through any Bank,
iss Bank, Money Order
Office or Stockbroker.
■est is payable each six
hs at 31% Per annum for
; years or at 2% per annum
hree years. (Investment in
Securities must be for £l,OOO
multiples thereof.)
.ymdnt in full at maturity
aranteed by the Common-
th. There s no better place
our savings. Invest at once.
105L7.113.70
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy books by Arthur H. Davis
(“Steele Rudd”). —4887.
To buy copy of Costume Through
the Ages. —4885.
To buy copy of <l Half in Earnest
by Sheridan.— 4886.
To buy copy of The Australian
Horse on Farm and Station by Prof.
McGillvray.—4BB4.
Copy of Mother Shipton’s pro-
phecies. —4888.
Information Sought.
A spray to combat grasshoppers in
the hopper stages on pasture land ?
Dissolve 11b. arsenite of soda in
hot water in one vessel and 41b.
treacle in warm water in another.
When cool mix together and dilute
with 16 gallons of water. Seventy-
five or eighty gallons of spray to the
acre are sufficient. Spray first on a
strip of grass for about 30ft. in front
of the advancing swarms' and then
directly on to them.
* * * *
Treatment for aphis and mildew on
rose plants?
Aphis can be controlled by spray-
ing with nicotine (residue from old
cigarette-butts soaked in a little water
will do) or Black Leaf 40; two days
after treatment wash the plants with
a strong hose-jet. For mildew, as
soon as detected, dust the leaves
under and over, with sulphur or
spray with Harbas or one of the trade
preparations on the market, letting
the mixture run down the stem to
the earth. Treat in the early morning,
when the sun will dry the mixture
on the leaves, for best results.
* * *
What does “The rising of the
court” mean ?
It is a sentence imposed by courts
of summary jurisdiction in cases where
the offence is trivial. The convicted
person is sentenced to imprisonment
“until the rising of the court,” which
means that he is to be detained in
custody until the court adjourns for
lunch or, if the sentence is imposed
in the afternoon, till the end of the
court’s day.
* * * *
Last year my stored dahlia-bulbs
were attacked by pests, which caused
heavy losses. How can I combat the
trouble ?
If the bulbs are covered with fine-
meshed wire and placed on a rack
off the ground they will be protected
from rats and mice. Where insects
are the trouble dust the bulbs every
three weeks with naphthalene or lime
and tobacco dust. Bulbs should be
kept dry during treatment. Where
a lot of earth is attached to the bulbs
it will always be a refuge for slugs,
snails and slaters.
* * * *
In N.S.W. what metals must be
used in containers or wrappings for
food and toilet preparations ?
The N.S.W. Pure Food Act pro-
hibits the use of containers or wrap-
pings for food if they contain lead,
zinc or other dangerous substance
which may come into contact with
such food. The usual container or
wrapping is made of tin foil or
aluminium foil. There is no pro-
hibition of the use of lead or other
containers for preparations such as
shaving-cream or toilet preparations,
as danger only arises from actual in-
gestion of the substance.
* * * *
How is a person appointed as a
Justice of the Peace in N. S. Wales?
Appointments are only made to
meet the necessities of the public. If
such necessity is. shown to exist at
any particular place, and represen-
tations, in writing, are made to, the
Attorney-General by some responsible
person or body of persons who
nominate some person for appoint-
ment, the Attorney-General may
recommend the appointment to the
Governor-in-Council, after inquiry
concerning the nominee.
♦ * * *
Preparation to deal with borers ?
The most effective preparation for
the treatment of borers is a 5 p.c.
solution of paradichlorbenzene in
kerosene. The solution should be
sprayed into the borer holes by means
of an effective syringe. Paradichlor-
benzene, which is a white crystalline
substance, might be obtainable from
your local chemist, but purchasing it
this way is rather expensive. Supplies
of the crystals are obtainable from
the following firms in Sydney: H. B.
Selby and Co. Pty., Ltd;, 254 a
George-street; Houghton and Byrne
Pty., Ltd., 2 Bridge-street; or Town-
son and Mercer (Aust.), Ltd., 23
Lang-street.
* * * *
Are aluminium cooking utensils
injurious to health ?
A leading authority, Dr. J. H.
Shelton, M.D. (Lond.>, says: “On
an average human diet the intake of
aluminium is somewhere about 12mg.
per day, of which about one-half at
least corties from food, and not from
cooking utensils. We have no know-
ledge of whether it is an essential
element for the tissues or whether it
is merely taken up passively. In any
case, in the amounts absorbed from
an ordinary diet it appears that it
does no harm, and there need be no
fear of toxic effects from utensils.”
* * * *
Meaning and origin of the phrase
“fourth estate” ?
The conception of the “three
estates of the realm” (now usually'
understood as being the lords spiritual,
the lords temporal and the commons)
as the great divisions of legislative
authority led in England to the coin-
ing of the phrase “fourth estate” to
indicate some power of corresponding
magnitude in the State distinct from
them. Fielding thus spoke of “the
mob,” and Hazlitt of Cobbett; but
the phrase is now usually applied to
the Press, a usage originating in a
speech by Burke. See Carlyle’s Hero-
worship.
Brief Answers.
L.L.: For the year ended June 30,
1950, a person in receipt of income
of £l3O p.a. and entitled to no rebates
on account of dependants, etc., would
pay no income tax and £2 ss. social-
services contribution E.G.: Write
“Australian Stamp Monthly,” 8 Orr-
street, Carlton (Vic.) K.L.C.:
From Snowy Mountain Hydro-
Electric Authority, Dalton House, 115
Pitt-street, Sydney R.A.V.: Such
an arrangement would cause accele-
rated corrosion of the tank, and it is
suggested that you insert a short
length of rubber hose between the
tank and the pipe. If this is done
you should have no unusual trouble.
W.L.D.: Care must be taken not
to disintegrate the fibres of the
gourd, which is not true wood. Try
sponging with warm water, rather
dryly applied, and wiping otf
quickly. Delicate scraping with a
knife or fine emery-paper may also
be tried. Deep stains may be impos-
sible of removal on account of the
grain of the vegetable fibre W.E.:
Depends on nature of offence in
respect of which conviction was
recorded. A conviction for an
offence of dishonesty might be a bar.
Conviction would be recorded....
A.P.J.: Inigo Jones, Research Direc-
tor, The Long Range Weather Fore-
casting Trust, Crohamhurst Observa-
tory, Croharahurst, Beerwah (Q.)....
J.S.: There are eight divisions in
boxing: flyweight (Bst.), bantam-
weight (Bst. 61b.>, featherweight (9st.),
lightweight (9st. 91b.), welterweight
(10st. 71b.), middleweight (list. 61b.),
light-heavyweight (12st. 71b.) and
heavyweight (all over 12st. 71b.),...
H.A.E.T.: No cause of action arises
against a solicitor merely because he
gives bad or wrong advice. He is
only liable to an action in respect of
negligence. It must be proved (1)
that there was want of skill or care
and (2) that owing to such want of
skill or care the client has suffered
damage. Matter could be brought
before Incorporated Law Institute of
N.S.W., 3 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
H.J.M.C.: Suggest you approach
a number of copying and typing
offices and ask for quotes for various
kinds of work... .R.L.: The figures
refer to the registered number of the
tobacco factory and the State in which
the factory is situated... .W.G.:
According to Mohammedan tradition
Friday, which is the Moslem Sabbath,
was the day on which Adam was
created, entered Paradise and was
expelled, and it was the day of his
repentance, the day of his death and
will be the Day of Resurrection.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
not^ce (except of a hostile
character) trill be taken of coat-
municqttons insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
G. 8.: You hammer out your stuff
too thin, and incessantly you sacrifice
sens e to get a rhyme P.J.; Theme
so dismal that you must be young
and happy C.D.C.: If that is our
native land we disown it K.F.:
Expected more from a hero described
as a combination of a Greek god and
a Roman gladiator A.H.K.: A
po et ought to be able to put more
feeling than that into a rhyme on the
difficulty of selling his poems
.... Bellerive: Yes, they bred them
tough then:—
....R.S.: With more pains and fewer
words you might get somewhere....
Bad enough calling the
a % ut jjHN *
with watch” P.M.: Missed not
uponHH 6 ' ought' 1 to
Tamong the S’ttSLnd 8 Don
Bradman noems JEB- It’s all
r i g h t about those snakes you see but
w here do you set the stuff strong
enough these M D T • EMu
lons of sentimentaiiSm’poured into
the basket M.Q.: You start your
s t o ry with a sentence of 65 words
and end it with one twice as long.
... .G.W.T.: “Scotland, land of all
my longing. Shall I see thee but in
dreams?” At the present rate of
exchange and high steamship fares
it would be cheaper C.D.C.: You
put it in a nutshell, but the nut is a
bit cracked... .0.L.: A melodramatic
shriek... .A.V.J.: Nothing in it
beyond the fact that he hadn’t
washed for 20 years H.A.:
Stopped when your heroine started
to talk to the rose-bush J.D.W.:
If the people in the next flat are such
a nuisance you would be justified in
n 8 expositions a10ud....
P.M.R.: Daren t turn The Mad
P' n B° lc ?° se on * c °o 1 P osltors •• • •
J.3.K.: The art of fiction is to
conceal its fiction. You don’t
‘ ee P football,
" ot a J H
a v e B e t aria n s cat....P.8.C.. Even
dhe Religious Editor couldn t swallow
it, and he tried to wash it down with
rum... .E.J.D.: Sorry, but there is
only one way in, and that is on
mp f: t xj i j . r a n’t smnHe in
contraband to'ry . .8.P.M.; Remit-
tance man packed home.
JONH L. SULLIVAN, Heavyweight
PUGILIST.
A powerful built bruiser
Of the united states,
artion agamst
With „j oves or g b a re fists
™ n g rlin or mowf* 8
H e ’d wager grim battle
During long years ago.
After a stirring career
He did wane and depart,
The slogger and stayer ,
Of the manly art.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
45d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Ambon
It is stimulating to note the unanimity
of opinion in Canberra in opposition
to Indonesian claims to Dutch New
Guinea, but there is another aspect to
this situation which calls for immediate
action by Australia. The strategic keys
to Dutch New Guinea are Ambon and
the Kai Islands. . The Ambonese have
declared for independence and are suffer-
ing under a complete blockade by
Soekarno’s forces. Even postal and wire-
less communication is denied them.
As yet I have not heard any Australian
protest on this denial of the right of
self-determination to the Ambonese by
the new Indonesian Republic. The world
knows the treacherous action taken
against the leaders of the Celebes group
who also desired their independence.
The leaders were invited to Djakarta for
friendly discussion and given a Ministerial
promise of safe return. On arrival they
were arrested and are still in jail.
Ambon is the last stronghold against
Soekarno. It was one of the islands first
settled by the Dutch. The Ambonese
got on so well with the Dutch that even
today they are proud to call themselves
Ambonese Hollanders. They are racially
distinct from the Javanese and have
nothing at all in common with them.
They are also the finest fighting men in
the Indies.
While it may not be politically expedi-
ent for Australia to intervene, I see no
reason why medical supplies and necessary
foods could not be sent by the Australian
Red Cross. And I think Radio Australia
might keep the Ambonese informed of
happenings in the outside world and of
our moral support.
It seems intolerable that the democratic
nations which sponsored Soekarno should
now sit quietly without protest while an
enlightened race-is being bludgeoned into
submission by the extremist minority of
a foreign race. — James H. Lawes
(N.S.W.).
Dollar, Loan
A Government dollar loan need not
result in a burden of debt for Australia
provided the dollars borrowed in America
are used to cover expenditure by private
enterprise, and not by Government
undertakings.
Conditions now are entirely different
from those ruling 30 years ago when
loans were raised outside Australia. At
the present time of full employment,
capital goods are needed from America
to speed up primary and secondary pro-
duction in Australia through private in-
dustry. The Government should not
compete with private business for the use
of men and money. Therefore, if the
borrowing of, say, 448,000,000 dollars
were arranged in New York by the Gov-
ernment of Australia, or the Common-
wealth Bank, those dollars should be sold
to Australian importers of American
goods for £200,000,000 in Australian
currency—an anti-inflationary act lead-
ing to a reduction of bank deposits.
The Australian funds so acquired by
the Commonwealth Bank would be ear-
marked in a special account, and held for
use in eventual repayment of the loan.
That would probably be done by the
purchase of sterling for conversion to
dollars when convertibility on a free basis
has been restored. Exchange-control re-
strictions will * not last indefinitely, but
present regulations prevent private
borrowing in America 'and the use of
our sterling funds in London to get
dollars to pay for imports. A loan of
448,000,000 dollars would be the
equivalent of unfreezing £160,000,000
sterling of our London funds, and not
the creation of a new debt burden.
It might be said that such a loan would
be costly because it would take nearly
9s. in Australian currency to get each
dollar. The goods imported would cer-
tainly be high-priced, but they would be
essential for our progress and within the
paying capacity of industry. From the
Government’s viewpoint some profit
might be expected, as repayment of loan
in years to come might be made at a cost
of a little more than 7s. in Australian
money for each dollar. With the Aus-
tralian pound at par with sterling the
loan could be repaid at a cost of
£160,000,000 in Australian currency, thus
leaving £40,000,000 in the special account
to set off against interest paid.— Student
(W.A.).
Home Ownership
Unless “Plumbus” is an ex-service-
man he has no cause to be unhappy
about the finance he has arranged with
an insurance-company loan of £l3OO on
his new house, repayable at £2 2s. 6d. a
week over 25 years (B. 5/7/’5O). How-
ever, an ex-serviceman with a proposi-
tion acceptable to War Service Homes
needs good reason to go past it for his
home finance.
In dealing with an insurance company,
“P.” naturally had to purchase an in-
surance policy as well as arrange finance ;
the policy’ is worth while, but sometimes
its additional premiums overload the
weekly budget. On a W.S.H. loan of
£l3OO weekly repayments of £2 2s. 6d.
would dean up the loan in about 16
years; repayments of £1 7s. 9d. in 30
years. If the serviceman should die,
W.S.H. have a very good record for not
ejecting his widow from -the home, even
though she may be unable during her
lifetime to pay more than a fraction of
the contract weekly repayments—to a
large extent an insurance policy for which
the serviceman pays no premium what-
ever.
My advice to servicemen has been to
contract to repay over a long term with
“He says my cooking gives him the bends."
low rate of repayments, because, if one
falls on hard times, the advantage is
obvious. On the other hand, W-S.H.
permits borrowers to pay in each month
quite voluntarily any additional sum which
happens to be loose in their pockets.
The borrower is well advised to do
exactly that —extra pounds paid in, par-
ticularly over the early years of the
contract, can, with accrued interest, help
reduce the term of repayments by many
years.
W.S.H. now lends up to £2OOO (£1 15s.
6d. per week over 45 years) and thus
brings home ownership within reach of
most —they can either build themselves
or purchase a built house, thus avoiding
the wait associated with Government
mass-building schemes.—H. B. B. (Vic.).
“Plumbus’s” praise of the insurance-
policy scheme of buying a house (B,
5/7/’5O) is one thing. Getting the house
is another. Assuming that everyone who
needs a house takes “P.’s” advice and
seeks one by taking out an insurance
policy—would that alter the fact that
there are thousands fewer houses than
there are people who want them?
Also, if people rushed available houses
even more fervently than now, wouldn’t
prices go up in proportion to the
increased demand?
Finally, would “P.” oblige by whisper-
ing in my ear where he found a house
for £l3oo?—Aestur (Tas.).
Industrial Councils
I must support Calwell’s advocacy of
industrial councils with employers and
employees represented thereon. I also
support the recommendations that these
councils should be empowered (a) to
regulate wages and conditions in industry,
( b ) to determine a fair profit in each
branch of industry, (c) to stimulate pro-
duction so that legitimate profits could
be made with lower prices, and (d) to
encourage the investment of private
capital in ways most likely to benefit tne
community. ,
There is nothing Socialistic in such a
programme. Indeed British political
ihinkers the reverse of Socialist in out-
look have championed much the same
thing for years, although they generally
refer to the bodies in question as guilds.
Among the advocates have been Douglas
Jerrold, Hilaire Belloc, Sir Charles Petrie,
Harold Massingham and the late A. J.
Penty. The system they and Calwell
favor would, in fact, be a revival in
modern form of the medieval guilds.
In its principles that method of industrial
organisation was perhaps the most just
ever conceived, its aim being the protec-
tion alike of producer, worker and con-
sumer.
Self-government of industry in such a
manner would obviate the necessity for
the present regulation by an expensive
and irritating bureaucracy.
The old guilds, besides their govern-
ance of industry, also performed func-
tions that are now provided for by in-
surance companies and Government
social services. Morris the Tinker
(N.S.W.).
The Atom-bomb
Winston Churchill’s claim (B. 12/ 7/’5O)
—that the dropping of the atomic-bomb
on Hiroshima saved perhaps a million
American and hundreds of thousands of
British lives —is open to question. Other
authorities —the U.S. Strategic Bombing
Survey and General Fuller, to name two
of them—have declared that Japan could
not have resisted much longer.
Even if Churchill’s claim could be
proved, however, it would be no justifica-
tion for propping the atomic-bomb at
Hiroshima. It amounts to saying that a
nation at war, to save the lives of its own
soldiers, is entitled to use any means to
break down enemy resistance. Such a
right cannot logically be claimed for a
particular side and denied to the other.
Its acceptance would mean that there
could be no true war criminality, and
that trials of persons accused of such
would be farcical travesties of justice.
This sort of reasoning is on a par with
that of some admirers of Oliver Cromwell
who have sought to defend the atrocities
of his Irish campaign—particularly his
butchery at Drogheda and Wexford —on
the ground that the fear thus inspired
was calculated to shorten Irish resistance
with consequent saving of both English
and Irish lives.
If that outlook wins general acceptance
Heaven help the world in any future war.
—Castlereagh (N.S.W.).
Erosion
The man in the street is apt to get
the impression that misdirected human
activity is the sole cause of soil-erosion.
It is, however, a natural process of
weathering that is only hastened by over-
stocking, wrong cultivation, deafforesta-
tion and so forth. It will proceed
inevitably through future geological ages
until the surface of the earth is flattened
put.
In the Cloncurry (Q.) area the evidences
of natural erosion are most striking. Some
once-considerable tributaries of both
branches of the Leichhardt River are now
filled to within a couple of feet of the
top with granite sand. This granite
occurs round about the headwaters, and
the felspar ingredient is disintegrating so
rapidly that the whole formation is
crumbling, the monsoonal rains doing the
rest. Kangaroos and brumbies have
learned to dig for water, no doubt locat-
ing it by smell; but it’s tough on those
that can’t dig—birds and the like. They
just clear out.
Our camp in a deep gorge seemed
terribly unsafe because of innumerable
balanced boulders, perched upon the
heights above, looking—with a stretch of
the imagination—like the heads of a
tribe of prying niggers. That they were
by no means an empty threat was easily
seen when ledges in between were found'
to be filled with great stones dislodged
from time to time.
Again, a panoramic view from high
hills was weird and unnatural because of
the queer shapes assumed by hills in the
distance. There were tabletops, cones
and even a giant golf-ball set upon a
perfect, cdpybopk tee. Buck quartz reefs,
30ft. high and as regular as a wall built
by some bygone race of giants, ran for
miles, straight as a foot-rule. In some
places older quartz formations were dis-
arranged and looked, at a glance, like
some bizarre cemetery.
Perhaps the most arresting evidence of
natural erosion was on the flat country
up near the headwaters. This was dotted
over with cones up to 200 ft, high, entirely
composed of smooth, round granite
boulders, 3ft. to 10ft. in diameter, just
piled one upon another, with, in between,
passages and goblin crannies where the
rock-wallabies and, earlier, the myalls
found sanctuary.
Man is not the only culprit by any
means where erosion is concerned. There
must come a time when mountain ranges
will only exist in legends of the past,
although by then, of course, erosion
problems will have ceased to exist, also.
—Franson (Q.).
Nuts and Bolts
The farmer’s job would be simplified
if farm equipment, particularly vital
spare-parts and nuts and bolts, could be
standardised. Farmers are caused endless
delays and trouble by nuts and bolts not
being the same thread and size.
Standardisation was adopted by the De-
partment of War Organisation of In-
dustry and the Bureau of Agricultural
Economics during the last war, with a
marked increase in efficiency. It would
do the same for the man on the land. —
Plain Australian (Vic.).
Apprenticeships
“Ricki” (B. 19/ 7/’5O) is right. Appren-
ticeships are being ignored by the youth
of this country, but it is not entirely the
fault of the young men themselves.
Many firms are sweating young learners
to such an extent that, in fear, they turn
to other unskilled and insecure jobs. It
is not always the cash that attracts them.
The future of Victoria’s moulding in-
dustry, for instance, is threatened by
employers’ past attitude to apprentices.
For years they used these boys as cheap
laborers doing heavy work at one-quarter
of the adult-rate. Now the industry has
a bad name. No one wants it, and the
annual intake of apprentices is dropping
rapidly.
Many other industries, too, are suffer-
ing because of treatment of young
apprentices in the past.
There’s only one way to attract
apprentices to an industry, and that’s to
encourage, help and train them properly.
The Victorian Railways Department has
followed that policy for the last half-
century with outstanding success. The
day each young man enters the railway
service he is welcomed personally by the
chairman of commissioners at an infor-
mal function at the Railways Institute.
The function has been going on for years
and will go on for many more.
Veterans of the railway service look
back with pleasant memories on the
day they started work apd met the boss.
With a laugh, but still quite serious, they
recall how each successive chairman has
told the lads —“One day you might have
my job.” And a number have achieved
that goal.
Throughout his training each railway
apprentice is encouraged to study. He
is sent to technical school in the day-
time, with the department paying all fees.
Scholarships for university and diploma
courses are available each year and com-
petition is always keen. These scholar-
ships lead to junior executive appoint-
ments—the first step up the ladder.
Those not fortunate to gain one of
these courses are not neglected. They
finish their apprenticeship-training,
go to the department’s workshops as
tradesmen, and ar e still encouraged to
seek promotion. Many become loco-
motive-drivers or firemen. A present
fireman on the Spirit of Progress is a lad
of 22 who finished his apprenticeship two
years ago.
Each year there is a rush to gain the
200-odd apprenticeships offered —all be-
cause the young fellows are encouraged
and offered advancement, so lacking in
some industries, Waddlin' Willie
(Vic.).


BRING THE BOOKSHOP
INTO YOUR HOME!
By receiving Dymock’s catalogue of new and recent
books every month. Includes books for the whole family.
• AN EXCELLENT GUIDE TO READING
Ask to have your name placed on our Mailing List.
Mail Orders promptly attended to.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE BL 3611.
TWO IMPORTANT BOOKS
AN INTRODUCTION TO
AUSTRALIAN FICTION,
by Colin Roderick
Surveys the whole field of Australian
prose fiction from its gepesis to the
end of 1 949.
12/6 (post Bd.)
SELECT DOCUMENTS IN AUS-
TRALIAN HISTORY 1788-1850
Selected and Edited by C. M. H
Clark.
This invaluable book presents man)
hitherto unpublished historical docu
ments. 30/- (post lid.'
BERTSON LTD
Ushers
H STREET, SYDNEY.
* *Cy
> » 0 OJ*.
Just published L
NO
ailable in Australia
S’S ENCYCLOPAEDIA
$ 15 Volumes • 2500 Eminent Contributors 9 4000 11 lustrations
HIS MAJESTY THE KING HAS GRACIOUSLY ACCEPTED THE DEDICATION
The first ENTIRELY NEW encyclopaedia on
a great scale for over 20 years. Post-war in
outlook and treatment and BRITISH. No
work can compare with the New
CHAMBERS’S for accuracy, completeness,
authority or price. Available cash or easy
terms.
To GEORGE NEWNBS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD
Third Floor, 1.19 York Street, Sydney, N.S.Vv
Please send me free descriptive folder and press ?«
views of the New CHAMBERS’S ENCYCLOPEDIA
NAME ....
ADDRESS
8.8.50
'GOLF-THE PICKWORTH WAY
By OSSIE PICKWORTH
Australian Open Champion, 1946-47-48
Golf secrets revealed that will enable you to become a successful player#
together with preliminary advice, essential features of stroke-making,
general hints, how to practice, etc., with 37 photographs as illustrations
for right- and left-hand players.
New Edition—s/-, plus 6d. postage.
ROBERTSON & MULLENS LTD.
107-113 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
NOW READY . . .
Hunter’s
Horn
HARRIETTS ARNOW
This is a novel about Nnnnelly Bellow and
Ins family in the hills of Kentucky. When we
meet him, Nunn Bellew's energies have been
diverted from his farm by an obsession that
forced him to neglect his property and his
family, to allow his land to remain sterile and
to keep his wife and children in hardship and
penury. HUNTER’S HORN tells the thrilling
story of his struggle against himself and
against Nature, and introduces the reader to
an American world that is probably strange
to him, but certainly true—a world that is
often amusing, and always permeated with a
sincerity and vitality that cannot fail both
to move and impress.
Available from all Booksellers. Price 14s ,
COLLINS
THEATRE BOOK CLUB
Outstanding books for theatre lovers at only a fraction of their ordinary
published price are provided for members of the Theatre Book Club, it
costs nothing to join. There is no membership fee and the books remain
your own property. Send for further details of this remarkable offer o
theatre lovers.
Recent Titles
Present Indicative: Noel Coward. Pub-
lished at 18/6. Old Vic Drama: Audrey
Williamson. Published at 35/-. Theatre
World Annual. Published at 21/-.
Theatre Book Club price for these and
all other books is only 8/9 a copy.
To: Theatre Book Club,
Room 90, Third Floor, Collins House,
360, Collins Street, Melbourne, Yic.
Kindly send me your illustrated brochure and
membership details of the Theatre Book Club free
of charge and without obligation.
NAME *.*t
ADDRESS •
adventure without losing the distinction
of art. Others, without denying his dis-
tinction, think Morgan dull; even—-in
such later books as The Judge’s Story —
a trifle incoherent.
Perhaps a juster estimate of Morgan's
work is that he expresses, sometimes
exquisitely, a neglected aspect of the
English character and mind. A character
as real, if not so obvious, as anything
revealed by the great names of English
literature. And so he may have his own
right to immortality.
In The River Line, as in The Judge’s
Story, Morgan uses a concise narrative, a
graceful but sketchy prose, leaving the
reader to fill in details for himself. He
never completely visualises a character —
he doesn’t believe in it. Heron, for
instance, has long thin legs, is tall, and is
“light.” Other characters, such as
Burgess, Marie and Julian, are any shape
and color you please.
Like The Fountain, The River Line is
concerned with war in its indirect mani-
festations—a group of English naval
officers interned in Holland during the
war of 1914-18 in the one ; a group of
Allied officers, mostly airmen, escaping
from Germany in 1943 in the other. The
underground organisation and route that
takes them through Belgium, France,
across the Pyrenees and into Spain is
the title of the book —“The River Line.”
In The Fountain there was a moving
story of illicit love. In The River Line
there is a love story, not quite so moving,
prohibited, not by modern ethics but by
a more ancient ban.
A ghostly character dominates the
book; a man called Heron whom the
other characters, the Englishman, the
American and the Frenchwoman, were
very fond of before they killed him,
somewhat hastily, on suspicion of being
an enemy agent. In the portrayal of
Burgess, a professor from an American
university, Mr. Morgan is, impeccably
and politely, playing a variation on the
Jamesian theme of American innocence
and European sophistication. An intel-
ligent American in the role of innocent,
a twist given to the theme by expressing
sophistication in terms of power and re-
sponsibility: violence and consequences.
Like Morgan’s, Cozzens’s novel is con-
cerned with power and responsibility:
violence and consequences. But it is, in
the first place, a picture of a miniature
world—a huge U.S. Army Air Force base
in Florida. It is informed with the bustle
and heat and dust and gusto of such a
world, and it is probable that no superior
novel on the American Air Force will
ever be written. Not, at least, on that
stage of its development. Other wars,
other books.
Incomparably as Mr. Morgan dives
into the present and skips along with the
past, it is rather a relief to open Guard
of Honor and discover that it begins at
the beginning and continues, in a straight-
forward line of narrative, through 631
pages, hundreds of characters and three
days to the end. Some of the crowded
action is powerfully dramatic: the scene
towards the end of the book, for instance,
a clinux to a chain of misfortunes set
loose—in part—by a blow from
Lieutenant-Colonel Carricker that broke
a negro lieutenant’s nose; a march-past
of troops on General Beal’s birthday,
the roar overhead of flight after flight
of planes, and a dropping of parachutists,
one of whom falls, sickeningly, on to a
strip of concrete. Seven more drop into
a lake and sink like lead.
In the three days covered in the novel
event follows event with a remorseless
logic, a sort of breathtaking speed.
Colonel Woodman shoots himself.
Colonel Mowbray, an amiable old duffer
who is the general’s executive officer,
makes blunder after blunder. Urgent
matters of discipline crop up, arising
directly from Lieutenant - Colonel’s
Carricker’s blow and, in a far-reaching
pattern, character after character is drawn
into the net. All of them are drawn
admirably. A few are unforgettable.
And they never get out of hand.
In a Cozzens echoes Morgan’s
version of American innocence. Only it
is not seen so much as innocence as a
lusty sprawling adolescence—like the
growth of the U.S. Air Force itself—with
a few adults riding the whirlwind.
“Adult” is used in a special sense; a
kind of austerity and spirit of command.
Choosing the human weapons that are at
hand and using them with judgment,
realism and unsparingly. “Doing,” in
General Nichols’s words, “the possible.”
Cozzens handles the negro problem
brilliantly and with balance. So brilliantly
at times —as in his examination of the
radical Edsell —that this part might almost
be taken as a debunking of scores of
debunking books. For Lieutenant Edsell
is, in civilian life, a writer ; and, it is
understood, a fairly important one. And
Lieutenant Edsell, in his fiery champion-
ing of the cause of the negroes, follows a
line of reasoning not unlike that followed
in such books as Kingsblood Royal.
Cozzens, following the same method,
shows the facts being distorted by eager
champions of the oppressed.
But the problem here is strictly mili-
tary. General Beal, for instance, does
not care about the rights or wrongs of
the negroes, one way or the other. His
problems are disciplinary and administra-
tive. And this—the roots of the novel—
introduces a heroic and tragic principle
which colors the whole. Action as deter-
mined by men’s characters, and the flavor
of tragic irony in men being defeated by
the vulnerability of their virtues. Luck
is seen as a kind of fate, which a man
must meet manfully. There is a promise,
not quite fulfilled, of tragedy on the
grand scale. If it had been, the book
would have stepped out of its local excel-
lence into the company of the great war
novels. It would be another Sergeant
Grischa.
It is still monumental, but the climax
does not compare with the tremendous
end of The Case of Sergeant Grischa.
Because, probably, Zweig’s novel dealt
with a truly tragic theme —the moral dis-
integration of an organisation as sym-
bolised by injustice to an individual. The
German Army, and through it the Ger-
man State, as Zweig saw them, contained
the elements of decay. The American
Army Air Force, and through, it the
United States of America, in Cozzens’s
view, have the lusty roots of growth. A
lush growth, perhaps, a coarse and sprawl-
ing growth: but still, growth. Not, in
itself, a tiagic theme.
In the end of the novel there is com-
promise. A tranquillity, as it were, after
storm. The image of General Beal
running with an electric-lit tempest of
rain pursuing him is a potent one. But,
after all, he escaped the rain.
The River Line, too, ends in tranquil-
lity. After the steely resolution of the
killing, one is asked to believe —and
Morgan does it very ingeniously—that
Burgess and his girl find no final bar,
after all, in the assassination of her
brother, to whom she was extraordinarily
bound ; that a kind of spiritual essence
of Heron, instead of parting them, unites
them. This may be possible; but it is
not convincing. In realism and artistry
it is far inferior to the cold and remorse-
less clarity of the final scene in The
Fountain. Either Morgan has been too
economical with his prose to clothe his
characters adequately, or he has made a
dfg
J.F
“THE BULLETIN”
CROSSWORD No. 80
ACROSS.
I—Awn Monty Woolley of the
mawkishly commonplace theat-
rical entertainment. (5, 2,3, 4)
8— -Negative progenitor composed by
Beilina. (5)
9 -Town in Russia has me struck
by a broken loop. (9)
1-Number. (3)
12— Fish returning to taxes by
degrees. (10)
13— Metal. (4)
15—This loses if heads turn up. (5)
17 In the direction of its reversing
Italian composer. (5)
18—These cats get mother’s back up
for a start. (5)
,l~T he flower I race badly. (5)
W There is nothing to regret about
it, libertine. (4)
25—Carpenter’s implement talked on
io ? hair-removing process. (10)
-It may have been Jonathan that
was the downfall of this Biblical
character. (3)
30— Journal published by a former
„ Australian fast-bowler? (9)
31— Fundamental. (5)
32 —A pianissimo tear refrigerates the
joint in a period of occupational
training. (14)
Down,
1— proclamation for a con-
firmed bachelor who marries at-
test. (8)
2 Fruit of the fourth month drop-
ping fifty resting places. (8)
3 Condition of a mosquito swatted
on the watch. (4, 2,4)
4 Tea price of a tenancy stream in
England. (5)
5 Animal has nothing but a Roman
patriot. (4)
6 Nappy turned up? (6)
7 Five score have some good for-
tune and the overture to an
egg- (5) , . .
9 —lnjury caused by an extinct bird
or a dweller in Biblical tends. (7)
10—Half of the donkey’s bray. (3)
14—I am pater’s fur but can’t be
traversed. (10)
16—-Much more facile worker in a
shoe factory. (7)
19— Fellow donkey he upset for a
King of Judah. (8)
20— Darling policeman is always
sought by spivs. (5, 3)
22 —Medico stabs a hole in timber
with affected slowness of speech.
(5) . . . ,
23—Friend with some friction entirely
upset this fabric. (6)
26 — Vitality. (3> „ .
27 — Frank has a bowling spell before
tea. ( 5 ) „ ...
28— Strikes up the mast. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 79.


* w
I K
lift
ii ii ii cm an nn mi s
li nil cmanafl#
ft ii n on anauam^
l! II I! on as® 5
ii «»‘SSS®
I luu^
1
y II 11 m
n ii if
ii
BOARD
OF DIRECTORS:
WALTER P. McGRATH
(Chairman)
HENRY E. COLEMAN
Hon. T. G. MURRAY
M.L.C.
Dr. R. J. TAYLOR
R. H. TRUMAN
THE
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
Assurance Society Limited
(Incorporated in New South Woles in 1878 )
TOTAL ASSETS £19,000,000
Funds are available for investment
in approved securities, viz:
NEW CAPITAL
FOR COMPANIES
AND
REAL PROPERTY
MORTGAGES
Head Office
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
60-66 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
C. A. RALPH, General Manager
