

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 71—No. 3670
Wednesday, June 14, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
Rochester, a city of pre-Roman
origin, stands beside the River
Medway, on one of the historic
routes from Dover to London, twenty
miles away. It was from Rochester
that James II (1685-1688), one of the
two English kings to abdicate, took
ship in 1688. Towering above the
river is the famous Norman
Cathedral, which stands on the site
of a church founded by St, Augustine
in the year 604.
The present Cathedral dates
mainly from the twelfth to four-
teenth century, and, in some respects,
resembles Canterbury Cathedral, par-
ticularly in its double transepts and
raised choir. The magnificent West
Doorway is particularly notable, and
is described by eminent architects as
the finest example of Norman archi-
tecture in England. The North
Choir Transept was formerly the
Chapel of St, William of Perth —a
Scottish baker murdered in 1201
when on a pilgrimage to Canterbury.
The shrine became so .popular that
the cost of rebuilding the choir is
said to have been defrayed by the
offerings of pilgrims who visited it.
The crypt, which is one of the
largest and most beautiful in Eng-
land, contains a case in which are
exhibited Cromwellian uniforms and
equipment. In the South Transept
is a menaorial to Charles Dickens,
who lived at Gad’s Hill Place, near
Rochester, from 1857 to 1870, and
■it was here that he provided Mr.
Pickwick with some of his earlier
adventures.
ROCHESTER CATHEDRAL, ENGLAND'S MOST STATELY NORMAN EDIFICE
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


re
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE .
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “ Bulletin
Mv Name
My Address
S.B. 160 AGE
The Red Page
FISH STORIES.
For anyone who likes to catch fish-
and anyone who does not is not quite
human—William McLeod Chapman’s
Fishing in Troubled Waters (Peter
Davies) is as pleasant a book as you
could hope to hook out of the waters
of time in any year. Dr. Chapman, who
occupies the exalted position of Director
of the School of Fisheries in the Uni-
versity of Washington, caught fish for the
U.S. troops around the Solomons during
the war, and the book tells how he did
it. Like this:
The surgeon-fish are so named because
they bear a razor-sharp lancet on either
side of their tail The problem is to get
the fish from the net into the skiff, because
they cannot be touched when they are alive.
In the side of the net opposite the school
a bag about ten feet long is made by
sewing the cork lines together at the top
and the lead lines at the bottom The
fish are herded gently along into the pocket,
the lasso is pulled tight and the trapped
fish, net and all, are rolled up into the
skiff. . . ,
This worked fine till Friday night, when,
just at dusk, the natives set their net
around a school of surgeon-fish that
probably contained 3000 pounds of fish.
Our method simply did not provide for
such a contingency. The fish were in water
about three feet deep, and we could not
use dynamite with any degree of success
because of this shallowness, but at Han’s
insistence we set off several shots, and suc-
ceeded in killing about 600 pounds of the
encircled fish. By the time we had cleaned
these out of the net it was completely
dark, and we had no light to work by save
that of the moon. .
We compressed the net until the fish
were in about half of it. Then the natives
began to spear the fish The sights—
and sounds —of those five black savages
dancing around the net brandishing their
spears in the moonlight was one that will
long be remembered by the whites who
were there... .In the end we had both skiffs
full of fish, turned the rest loose, and went
wearily back to the ship.
The fishing is not always, alas, as
magnificent as this. In fact, at far too
frequent intervals and for far too many
pages at a stretch, there is no fishing at
all, only what amounts to a criticism
of the U.S. Army administration —how
Dr. Chapman battled for beer, for coca-
cola; for boats, for engines, for spars-
- for everything he needed to go
on catching fish for the people who were
obstructing him.
All this would be more interesting—
to us —if Dr. Chapman had come into
contact with Australian troops who, if
they are not fish, are at least of our own
tribe. It remains mildly interesting be-
cause it makes a continuous narrative of
the book, a prolonged struggle against
regulations and the regulated mind ; be-
cause it is humorously and humanly told ;
because it brings our Allies in the
Pacific to life, frankly, intimately and
likeably ; and because it is comforting to
know that the Americans, whose effici-
ency so much astonished us, were
hampered by red-tape far more than one
would have imagined. But it is still not
fishing.
The war did help, though, sometimes
to make the fishing more exciting. There
was the occasion at Gizo Island when Dr.
Chapman threw a stick of dynamite just
off the end of a dock and dislodged in
the shallow water not only plenty of fish
but “a cascade of Japanese ammunition-
boxes filled with live ammunition.
Perched on two cases of mortar-shells
directly under the stern of our vessel was
a 5001 b. aerial-bomb with the fins
attached.” And there were the many
occasions when, forced because of storm
or sickness to sail at night, the fishing-
vessel had to run the gauntlet of shore-
batteries who were told to sink nocturnal
prowlers on sight and who, if they did
not actually open fire on Dr. Chapman,
swore at him considerably with blinkers.
And, war or no war, red-tape or no
red-tape, there was still a lot of fishing in
Dr. Chapman’s troubled waters. His
book, written by a man who, in the
happy reconciliation of mind and matter
that seems peculiarly American, is at
once a scientist and a robust human being,
is full of odd facts about such creatures
as the petroscirtes, “a tiny blenny with
alternating horizontal bands of velvety
black and pale electric blue”:
In its small mouth it had two enormous
tusks, which were so large that there were
special cavities in the top of its skull for
them to fit into when the mouth was closed.
In proportion to its size its tusks were as
large as those of a sabre-toothed tiger. It
would seem impossible for them to be used
in connection with such a tiny mouth, but
it hangs on like a bulldog, and you
have to flip your hand vigorously to shake
it off. Such action is permissible, and even
humorous, in a fish two inches long, but
we were glad they grew no larger
and with that sort of scientific detail go
the larger adventures of peril by night
among the coral reefs, of swimming
among sharks, of hunting crocodiles with
a searchlight in dark jungle creeks, and
of a fight between two members of the
crew when their “personnel troubles” —
stimulated by a quart of whisky—at last
boiled over.
It is like a fishing book by Heming-
way ; but —except perhaps for a story
Dr. Chapman was told about a bat which
manifested itself on a radar screen and
terrified the crew of a small U.S. naval
vessel—it is not fiction but fact; and it
is not so grim as Hemingway, more com-
panionable.
Dr. Chapman fraternises with his crew
of U.S. servicemen, with his Solomon
Islanders who did most of the serious
fishing and, above all, he fraternises with
his fish. The tropical waters are warm
to walk or swim in, clear to look into ;
and, when he is not in a net of red-tape,
he seems to spend most of his time under-
water —listening to the sudden rain-
storms pounding on the surface of the
ocean “as loud as if it were striking a
canvas roof”; tracking the gorgeous,
ugly and poisonous trigger-fish by its
angry growling and grunting which can
be heard for 20ft. from its hole in the
coral: or idly swimming along the inner
side of a reef, towing his skiff and
“drinking in the charm of the coral and
its inhabitants”:
A school of young barracuda, silvery
below, blue above,, swept by in close forma-
tion. A cow shark some eight feet long
swam leisurely by....1n and out among
the coral heads swam the blazing yellow
and black butterfly-fish, the blue-black
parrot-fish with the bright green teeth, the
stately Moorish idols with their black and
yellow stripes Down in a crevice was
the fiery red turkey-fish—his long flexible
spines, each of which held the venom of
a heavy hornet sting, fanned out before
him as a perfect protection. Protruding
from a hole ten feet down on the reef was
the head of a great moray eel
That particular swim lasts for three
pages and will probably be reprinted in
fishing and travel anthologies. The
quotation from it is printed here as live
bait.
Love and Letters.
Charles Graves, the London columnist
and authority on cafd society, phoned
Peggy Leigh for news of the marriage
of her “Uncle Rud” Kipling’s daughter,
at which she was bridesmaid. Then he
put Peggy—to her father, the Hon.
Rowley Leigh’s, horror into his
“Londoner’s Log,” and thereafter wrote
to her in restaurants, got her invited to
a party where he could meet her, called
for her every morning to take her in a
taxi to the children’s hospital where she
was learning to be a nurse, and proposed
marriage.
Miss Leigh seems to have decided, with
amazing clarity of vision for one in love,
that it was no use marrying a journalist
until she could earn enough to keep
herself, or them both; she became a
mannequin and then, her point of view
having been made clear to her husband-
designate, he got her a job as fashion-
writer on the “Daily Express,” and soon
she had also a fashion article in the
“Bystander,” a London Letter for the
New York “Times” and a weekly article
for the “Onlooker” —a total of £2O a
week, but even after they were married,
and she had become famous as “Jane
Gordon” of the “News-Chronicle” it
seems to have been, with the few
thousands a year her husband managed
to rake in, only just enough.
The labors of newspaper-columnists
are often dismissed with a slight shrug.
There is the story of the two columnists
meeting at a long bar, and the one saying
to the other, “Tell me, who do you think
writes your column?” and the other
replying, “How should I know? I only
work here.” But evidently there is more
to it than that; and perhaps the most
interesting words in “Jane Gordon’s”
autobiography. Married to Charles
(Heinemann), are those she lets fall upon
the methods and economics of column is-
ing.
Charles began as Oxford correspondent
to the “Daily Express” at a shilling a
line; then joined the staff at seven
guineas a week, went to the “Evening
News” at nine guineas a week, became
news-editor of the “Sunday Express,” and
wrote the “Londoner’s Log” which later
became Lord Castlerosse’s. Then he got
fourteen guineas a week from the “Daily
Graphic” with an extra ten guineas for
work on the “Sunday Chronicle” ; then
he earned about twenty-five guineas a
week at space-rates on the “Sunday
Despatch” with an extra seven guineas
on the side; and then joined the “Daily
Mail” at £3O a week.
As for Mrs. Graves: after their
marriage in 1929, she was writing a half-
page on fashion for Monday and a half-
page on beauty for Thursday, answering
readers who wrote for help to her “Beauty
Bureau” (between 800 and 4000 a week,
of which from 150 to 300 letters a week
had to be dealt with personally), and
keeping up her nursing duties on Monday
and Wednesday mornings and Tuesday,
Thursday and Friday afternoons:
Charles usually reached home from
Fleet-street about five-thirty or six o’clock,
and we always had something amusing to
do in the evening. Charles had a free pass
for two seats in every West End cinema.
Tickets were sent to him for all first nights,
and we had ringside seats for every big
fight at the Albert Hall.
In addition, Mrs. Graves managed
their house at 70 Gloucester-place, and
“a small but efficient staff consisting of
cook, housemaid, parlor-maid and, of
course, Freda [personal maid].” Charles
was earning £1750 a year when they were
married, and so they formed themselves
into Gordon-Graves, Ltd., “the best
stroke of business Charles has ever
done” ; but in the middle of 1931, the
“Daily Mail” dropped his contract; and
about here Mrs. Graves is moved to some
interesting reflections;
As the weeks went by our hopes were
dashed one by one, for the simple reason
that those newspapers which could afford
to pay the salary Charles commanded were
few and far between The higher the
salary, the more important it is to appear
not to be in any need of the money
earned Poor men seldom earn big
money That is one of the reasons why
editors liked to employ a Lord 1 knew
that the barometer of a columnist’s success
could be gauged by the invitations he
received from sports promoters, restauraters,
managers of theatres and cinemas and
public relations men, as well as the men
who managed holiday resorts in England
and on the Continent 1 have heard
several newspapermen complain bitterly
that these invitations cease when a man
loses his job.,. .It seems curious to me that
hard-bitten newspapermen should be naive
enough to imagine that their personal
charm entitled them to all this free enter-
tainment
Charles seems to have managed not to
look poor; he kept in the run of things
by writing social publicity for weeklies.
At the same time, he was contributing to
the partnership with books of travel and
collections of his articles; a life-story of
the Earl Carroll “Vanity Girl,” Evelyn
Crowell, which bumped up the circula-
tion of the “Sunday Graphic,” and such
things as six advertisements, price £lOO,
on the subject of Egypt. • He remembered
that their friend, Barbara Hutton, had
been recently in Egypt, went there to
lunch, and told her what he wanted: —-
Whereupon she rang the bell and said
to the butler; “Bring my unpublished
poems about Egypt here, please.” In a
few minutes the butler reappeared with the
poems on a silver tray, and Barbara handed
them to Charles, saying: “Read these.
They may give you some ideas.”
Now this was all very well; but the
Eoems were written by Barbara in her own
andwriting, which is as elaborate and
difficult to decipher as Egyptian hierogly-
Ehics. Charles did not like to admit that
e could make neither head nor tail of
them, so he handed them to Barbara and
said: “Read them to me yourself—l shall
get so much more from them that way.”
While she read, he took notes. He brought
the notes home, turned the poetry back to
prose, and made six advertisements out of
it. These advertisements have been quoted
in text-books for university students as
classic examples of advertising.
They travelled and wrote more books.
Charles wrote the life-story of their
friend Marlene Dietrich (“needless to
say, Charles took as long as possible to
get this particular life-story”), and got
amusingly caught in the rain, and not a
taxi to be had for love or money, with
Sir William Reid Dick and Hector
Bolitho, all in silk stockings and knee-
breeches,' after the Coronation.
One morning Charles declared moodily
that it looked as though he might have
to go back to Fleet-street; he had been
offered £3500 a year for a column five
days a week.
This filled Mrs. Graves with secret
elation: “Freelancing is rather like
gambling. You can never actually count
the money until you have received the
cheque.” But a journalist’s wife must
consider his Art, or his Eternal Soul; and
Mrs. Graves’s way of dealing with the
situation should be quoted in text-
books as a classic example of husband-
management ;
Presently, when Charles wandered into
my room, I said deceitfully: “The more
I think of it the better pleased I am that
you have decided to refuse the ‘Mail’ offer.
If you accepted, it would be necessary
for us to have a chauffeur-driven car, which
would be horribly expensive.”
-A Charles’s whole face lit up. He looked
like a small boy instructed to eat as many
iha,, aS p^ e fjomach. » Do ,
“Would w^reallv 1 ?-, as^e d incrpH U i mean
, I said Sralyßte a car?" cred “ lo «sly.
ft" loom h“ "’'’'cha 0 ? 1 ' 1 - I
saw him—three L baste > a nd wh? arl ® s left
he had accepted the offe^^ 6 told
These details are all toi’
100 pages of the book Mb/' 0 ” 1 the first
almost entirely given Dext 1 50 are
when Mrs. **
Charles Graves was a h nursc and
sergeant and a writer 0 f w?°u me Guard
does the story 0 f fheh i
make less exciting reading t. Xperie nces
hoof ’^ 10 these d ays when Ut ltS mai n
books have described the h hn man y
Britain, is m the picture it „ mbln § of
perfect journalist’s wife Jj'T of the
who wants to be one ’ or reade t
one, may be surprised to LdT to get
it can be done; nnd w simply
Charles.... told me that all r a
a good secretary to tai™ a i- * n ?eded was
hand and produce the artid(w d ° n
It would take about five m? n Jypewrittea-
you how to write a
And the five-minute lesson ,
you are getting this for (and
of the Masters): n § from one
t * The fii st sentence must i,o
carry the headline Ibe Wnt ten to
?• B must be highlighted.
3. If possible, I should aim „
and an end to catch the reader’s
4 No sentence must be longer tfiftv®-
words at the most. ger than thirty
5. Where I would normally nut a
f must put a full-stop. y PUt a Corn ma,
Ure Smith Etchings.
I* 1 ? Ewings of Sydney Ure Smith
published by his own firm in the tt
Smith Miniature Series, “ade a*
appearance when the recent memorial ex
hibition was being held at David Jones’s
Gallery, Sydney. s
Mr. Hal Missingham says in his fore-
word that Ure Smith etched over 100
plates There are 32 in this volume The
etchings don’t—and can’t—fully represent
the small but secure place Ure Smith
made for his own work, as distinct from
his publications, for he was always a
historical recorder as well as an artist and
so many of his records of old buildings
were in his drawings and watercolors
beyond the scope of this book.
As if aware of this deficiency the editors
have put historical footnotes to a number
of the etchings that have, really, nothing
very much to do with history. Where,
for instance, there is an etching of the
old convict barracks, still standing of
course in Macquarie-street, a footnote
a Tout Greenway and Macquarie is obvi-
ously appropriate. But there really
doesn’t seem much point—except that the
information in itself is interesting—in
ding historical footnotes to etchings of
. ry’s Bay and Gore Bay done in 1918.
Another minor disadvantage is that some
of the plates—“Lennox Bridge, Parra-
uitta,” for example—look rather
smudgy ; possibly a fault in the original,
possibly a lapse in reproduction.
However, it makes a very pleasant and
graceful little book in which the land-
s': apes, particularly, are charming. Such
Mates as “Farmyard and Bam, Amble-
side,” “The Three Barns,” “The River
Bank, Windsor” and “The Bara,” where
Ure Smith had a scene or an old bmld-
that didn’t demand rigid histoncai
presentation, have a minor, sunny
poetry rarely to be found in his more
ambitious work.
Mr. Missingham’s introduction to IJie
Smith, both as a man and as an etcher,
is admirable; and Lionel Lindsay centri-
sm ips an informative article on etch g
technique. Mr. Missingham mentiom
incidentally, that Ure Smiths W
etching-press was one that had been
by ‘Hop” of The Bulletin.
Musicians in Elysium *'S
(Seeker and Warburg).
tween musicians, their , j n
characters, conducted, pr his
Heaven: Wagner telling -J ere( jas
disappointment at net being Goethe
a poet, and admitting that E>d
wrote “good things , at. ° ua ding
for Gounod” ; Don boW
Mozart that he was no' » croW ded
it was possible that he cou a aiko w
2065 seductions into one Spohr
sky envying Strauss his Bach
sneering at Paganini s
marvelling to Handel p w an( j then
of his “Art of Fugue. dialogues
the dialogues, as a g f inspiratiou
should, attain mommfr or the cadence
when the turn of a phrase r volurn es
of a sentence can sugg t conun entary.
of biographical and c c ferenC es »>•
and for musicians the pro found than
make the work seem r m \here is at fog
for the casual reade . “quartet
one misprint, on P a § e ’
“Sonata.”


“TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING"
Horderns’
■
m
ifM
m
m
v\
(♦)
rl
.
5T
/
s s« ■
//i
>
.
A
f
«.
t. »!
x s
r£
K
. ■
B
w
s-V*"
$
■s '
y
W I
*’ .
<* i &
c,
i m
,• M vVvS.
ii
■ r,
■
■• .
s /
.y
Any size 13un10j3111.0 made to order
Dunlopillo can be cut in any size you want to fit either
mattresses, chairs, window seats, outdoor furniture, the nursery
or the car. Dunlopillo is ideal because it’s so soft, so cool and
dustproof. To all these advantages it is extremely economical.
Just send us your instructions and we will arrange the rest.
221C1. .Comfitop Cushions are the ideal cushions for
motorists. Designed to give perfect comfort and complete
relaxation. Price, 25/2.
221C2. Hospital Cushion. Code 62. 18in. diameter. Gin.
hole. Available uncovered, 26/4! A very useful cushion.
221C3.—Reversible Cushion. Code 150. 18in. x 18in. x Sin.
Uncovered, price 25/7; with tapestry cover, price 42/3
221C4. Plough, Tractor Cushion. Code 48. Uncov., 18/-
221C5. “D” shape Cushion. Code 89. 17in. x 17in. x 2Jin.
Uncovered, price 19/9; with tapestry cover, price 27/9
Not illustrated.
221C6.—Code 58. 19in. x 19in. x 3in. Uncovered, price 36/6
221C7. Code 112. 31 Jin. x 15Jin. x 4in. Uncovered, 63/-
221C8.— Code 6. 16 Jin. x 14in. x 4in. Uncovered, 33/10
221C9. Code 37. 43in. x 19|4n. x 4in. Uncovered, 94/4
221C10. Code 38. 43in. x 21in. x 4in. Uncovered,
221C11. Code 41. 3 Gin. x 3Gin. x 2in. Uncovered, 91/9
221C12.—C0de46. Bow front. Uncov., 19/1
221C13.—Code 46. Tapestry covered. Price, each, 30/11
221 C 14. Code 57. 18in. x 18in. x 2in. Uncovered, 23/11
221C15. Code 57. Tapestry covered. Price, each, 37/6
221 Cl6.—Code 74. 49in. x 19 Jin. x 4in. Uncovered, 107/10
“Comfitop”
#
m
0:.
mmmm
-
m m
MiMM
* <- ■■■*- ■'
CODE 62
dsf
dsf
dsfds


f////
:>>
IW
i
y\X'
;*«*#i****\
....
*» . ■ * ■ ■ t • v ; - *. ' ■
* r ** I ■%,*• v -* 5 *a- f- w.;
< 4 ,*V»' ■♦* •*•* * r«- £ «*f:
* &
• :■,. .1 ;,.
**m«mmi****-* I;;, <. ,- , •. "
*»*♦« *|k jj •. ; w ; .
..-«■ -%‘S E‘S :s:
.^llliiMUnr^
* ** lit irJJJS * S *'z- J-ST
•***#*?*«>**♦*
• »*■♦•:•*«»^ •*.** 22.2 « m i * tt«t***********V*H? ; *
,**.?*«»V*«-J 2 22* •* * uoMiwrfuMWMM
|ssi&iiii*f|tiiwg^
5 ~*J’ f ’ >
>> » •%. j, V f'rt'i
i sW* t>' ** 4 *•
¥ "*t >t * *■ t T'< -f ’ ■*•■* ■
.’. •«'. *$■. • ♦* <*< »?»
-V* $■ '*■*S-'r'3 > ' v ?• r:$ ‘f 1 •'? £-?
V *-i ■/.? -f * -». ?■*-*■»•>? t y I ■«• f ■*
,' '• * - ( .!>. ■•■ «, ■ .« -<i. j *».V If. *•>. ; ‘ ,> |,^ A
i-> \*v- j -£■,; ,•» ii ■%
*ve$ ■»(.'••# mr ?A!iJ 'wr i«i- *‘ 4 ‘
♦ ,wi « . M i -fV ji ;
•*• «<r ; vfc.
4'V.'. 4 t: v > i
*.' h «•-»'- ? v ;^i l V-'’.i
■;■'< • A '".l '-*•■»■ i y*« y < f ‘* ; t
*■«£ ? *>
} i +
•'Mf >»»'.? ■>*■ ■••*’♦ v * f •''I ..S' f* »,
#<•**■■ iV | -f'j $ <’
: *> , 4 : ■■ . • » > . * • ' . ,^.
-jf w.| ,-«■• -| •*-| »•*f w4^-f*
‘ ;:: - •-- ■■ ' - - : 1 - : : ' - : -- -
"liiiiiiliiffi
; r
V'-'r:
** ■• :-'!
i m
.t» * 5 - 5‘S‘»S ■*-■« y S »
S Jt * t * | S:*. sisiSi^SS^
*{ ; xs * *-5 ii
* 2 ft■*■'£:5:S : s:K«{W|WgSg!? ■ j
■ 4 K
>yxi
'vA
y.SS-|
-; '
',^1
V 5 *;?'..
: O'
s m
f/M
m
m
z ■
$%& f
vv-;< > - 'f • , y U'v>X\’./< "
ABBOTSFORD N. 9. VICTORIA
ahttm*
DISTRIBUTED THROUGHOUT THE WORLD


The Bulletin
Vol. 71 —No. 3670
Wednesday, June 14, 1950
“ADVANCE, TOM, AND BE RECOGNISED—AT LAST!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 ; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
THE WIDER ISSUE.
Accepting union delegates’ statements at
the recent A.C.T.U. congress that 90 per
cent, of union members agree with the
principles of the Anti-Communist Bill,
the Prime Minister could afford to offer
some amendments in the wording of dis-
puted clauses to meet ostensible objec-
tions of the “Labor” Opposition in Par-
liament on the score of preserving funda-
mental common-law rights. Mr. Chifley,
for “Labor,” promptly refused these con-
cessions or any conference of parties on
the matter, preferring his party’s minority
stand that legislation to combat Com-
munist sabotage of trade-unions, if not
innocuous —“futile” is his word —must be
condemned as dangerous to the unions.
Mr. Chifley is pursuing a course which
he hopes will be justified by the N.S.W.
State elections next Saturday. He is com-
mitted, for his part, to making obstruc-
tion in the Senate against the Anti-Com-
munist Bill an issue for the elections in
the chief industrial State. If the Chifley
party —soundly beaten in its own elec-
toral appeal against the Menzies Govern-
ment’s programme —can help its McGirr
partner in N.S.W. to get back to office,
then the signal will be given for blocking
in the Senate of this and other bills sent
up in order to force a double dissolution
and another Federal election. Mr. Cal-
well has already leapt into the fray with
a broadcast (from one of those com-
mercial stations which he detests) declar-
ing that the Menzies Government is a
fraud because it has not completed any
legislation during this opening session.
Of course it hasn’t; the “Labor” majority
in the Senate sees to that. Mr. Calwell’s
own Government, it should be observed,
conducted during three whole years a
Parliament just about barren of legisla-
tion not declared invalid by the courts.
Mr. Calwell and his colleagues don’t
want the Anti-Communist Bill passed,
or the road cleared for the Budget or any
other measures designed to arrest the in-
flation of living and production costs.
Political strikes and exorbitant taxation
of industry during the post-war years
have done more than anything else to
send up costs and prices. Opposition-
leaders want a continuance of these to
break the Menzies Government as it
broke their own. They don’t want rising
costs arrested; they want high costs,
“failure to put value back into the
pound” as an election stunt for (say) the
end of the year. Obstruction of the Gov-
ernment to this end is their policy. If
McGirr is re-elected in N.S.W. obstruc-
tion will seem a winning manoeuvre.
Mr. Chifley has joined the McGirr
platform, too, but warily. Speaking in
Bathurst, he said his party is “Australian,
not dominated by any foreign isms.” No-
body said it was, but the key unions are
so dominated through Communist execu-
tives, and those “foreign isms” have got
in first with a “united front against
Menzies” —and against, therefore, the
majority verdict of the Australian people
—and “Labor’s” problem, both at Can-
berra and in the N.S.W. contest, is to
present a “united front” without those
wreckers who last year were to Mr.
Chifley subversive and “the agents of a
foreign Power.” Let the McGirrites
scrape home and it is a guinea to a goose-
berry that Australia- will be in for another
coal strike —threatened already, along
with a maritime strike as well. “Labor”
does not want the Menzies Government
to succeed where it failed and to “get
coal” by disciplining the minority rebel
element among the mining unions. What
the Chifley Government in its time dared
not undertake the parties which defeated
it shall not if “Labor” can prevent it.
That is the idea. Mr. McGirr’s re-elec-
tion would be the straight office to the
miners’ executive to remain defiant. The
remnant of the McGirr-Chifley partner-
ship which couldn’t get coal would be
put in double-harness with a Common-
wealth Government pledged to use all
resources to relieve the coal famine, to
cheapen coal by requiring a fair working
return for high wages paid, and so to
arrest the community’s living costs. Coil
is the supreme requisite. “We are all on
our knees begging the miners to give us
more coal” says Mr. Justice Foster of
the Arbitration Court.
The Joint Coal Board (founded on a
Commonwealth - N.S.W. inter - Govern-
ment agreement whereunder the Com-
monwealth supplies most of the finance
and N.S.W. most of the authority) was
nearly ruined during the past two years
by the two “Labor” Governments which
established it. Its policy in every crisis
—and crises were persistent—was dic-
tated by the joint Governments’ “Fixer,”
Mr. Chifley’s Minister for Fuel. Every
attempt by the board to assert discipline
on the coalfields, or to move the Coal
Tribunal to help them, was thwarted by
Government intervention. Mr. McGirr
is (he says) going to prevent further
blackouts in industry by appointing more
boards under his own political direction —
boards to reticulate power from plants
starved for coal. For months the Joint
Coal Board has been without a chair-
man because Mr. McGirr could not agree
with Mr. Menzies even about so minor
a detail of joint administration as filling
that vacancy. Then, realising the election
point he was giving away, he conceded a
compromise, and last week Mr. Cochrane
was appointed. The incident is full of
warning to every N.S.W. elector.
The election battlefield is crowded with
such instances of finesse in “Labor”
manoeuvres. Mr, McGirr has delayed for
much longer than a few months in filling
two other pressing vacancies—one on the
Supreme Court Bench and another, the
chairmanship of the Public Service Ap-
peals Board, a recognised route to a
judgeship. The names of the aspirants
whom Mr. McGirr is alleged to favor
have for some time excited dismay in
Phillip-street; and the inference is that
Mr, McGirr dare not make those appoint-
ments before the elections are over. If
this is not so, why the scandalously long
delay?
Or look at the tight-rope-walking over
the demand of the Shop Assistants’
Union for closing all retail shops on
Saturday mornings. The union, bucking
an Industrial Commission award refus-
ing the demand, asked Mr. McGirr t 6
receive a deputation. Here, they told him
—staging a strike at Newcastle in de-
fiance of the Industrial Commission —was
his shorter working week, his prime
recipe for greater production, being side-
tracked. Mr. McGirr remained silent.
Then the Lord Mayor of Sydney, secre-
tary to the union, put off that mayoral
gold chain which he says is getting,
overheavy for his nobly-fashioned shoul-
ders, and essayed to disembarrass Mr.
McGirr with some nicely-calculated re-
marks about being no advocate of Friday-
night trading—what other shopping hours
would be left for all other five-day-week
workers? —and said his union would
postpone its deputation until after elec-
tion-day.
Along with the last-minute McGirr act
seeking to enforce the impossible under,
his 40-hour week, namely, the delivery to
the door of bread within a three-mile
radius, these are petty shifts on a field
where developments of the highest
national concern are at stake. Apparently
the deploying of the Socialists’ “united
front against Menzies” depends on them.
Whether the Socialist Opposition at Can-
berra will (against all “Labor” doctrine)
order the Senate to defy the will of the
House of Representatives to the point of
a double dissolution may thus turn on
the fate of the McGirr Government.
That Government has inflated living costs,
its transport services are bankrupt and
its leader is content to rest on his con-
tention that a hole dug in the ground
for house foundations is good enough
to call, for election purposes, some elec-
tor’s promised home. But its ability to
survive next Saturday’s vote is the chief
hope of the obstructors of the Common-
wealth Government’s programme.
Right on the Doorstep.
The sudden announcement that a secret
session of the Indonesian Parliament has
decided to “favor Indonesia’s recognition”
of Indo-China’s rebel Communist
Government under Ho Chi-Minh must
have come as a cold shock to the Aus-
tralian Department of External Affairs,
where, since Mr. Spender became
Minister, the policy has been in line with
the one carried on by Doctor Evatt.
Part of the basis of the Spender “plans”
has been a conviction of the patriotism
and commonsense of the ex-collaborators
of Dr. Soekarno’s rickety Government,
which has done everything possible to
belie the good opinion of it expressed by
Mr. Spender a few weeks ago in his state-
ment on foreign affairs to Parliament.
The Soekarno Administration is as
unstable as water, and is even now facing
a rebellion adjacent to New Guinea with
which it is obviously unable to cope.
Its Minister for Information said on May
31 that it was “not intended to attack
the Republic of South Moluccas” and that
“a landing on the island of Amboina was
considered inopportune, but that the Indo-
nesian Navy would continue its block-
ade.”
At the same time, having just then
welcomed help to stabilise against Com-
munism from the South-east Asian Con-
ference members in Sydney, Dr. Soekarno
broached the subject of the handing-over
of Dutch New Guinea to his Govern-
ment. He demanded this persistently in a
series of statements, one immediately fol-
lowing the decision of his “Parliament”
—which is more like a politburo —to
favor recognition of Ho Chi-Minh in
Viet-Minh. In it he pleaded with Aus-
tralia to “play more than a watching
role” in the determination of Dutch New
Guinea’s fate, and he declared that
We guarantee Australia and the whole
world that if we obtain sovereignty over
West New Guinea it will not become Com-
munist Indonesian sovereignty over West
New Guinea would not weaken Australia’s
position from a long-term defence point of
view... .Indonesia would be a friend sitting
next door in New Guinea rather than a
suspicious neighbor.
The actions of Soekarno, a Japanese
collaborator, who shows little concern
when his out-of-hand soldiery murder
innocent Australians and who accepted
with alacrity the co-operation of the Aus-
tralian Communist party both during and
after the war in ousting the Dutch, do
not march with his words.
He at present has an agreement with
the Dutch to submit the New Guinea
question to the arbitration of the United
Nations Commission, which is to receive
reports from the contending parties after
July i, as the result of an agreement
reached by a Netherlands-Indonesia
conference held between March 25 and
April 1.
Every sane person must hope that
Western New Guinea will not go out of
Dutch hands, and this needs saying in the
strongest possible language, so that there
may be no misunderstanding whatever.
Mr. Spender’s statement last week was
scarcely adequate.
It merely gave encouragement to
Soekarno, who, shortly afterwards, uttered
a rabble-rousing demand to an hysterical
mob in language which left no room for
misconception:
The flame of our struggle will burn on until
New Guinea is part of Indonesian territory.
It was not without significance that this
was said in the presence of Pandit Nehru,
who, the same week that Indonesia de-
cided to recognise Ho Chi-Minh. himself
entered into a strangely friendly diplo-
matic accord with the Chinese Com-
munists, whose plea for Pan-Asianisra
he supports.
The transfer would, indeed, bring into
control of a territory adjoining New
Guinea a _ body of men who have shown
themselves unscrupulous in their relation-
ships and who are proved to be at
the mercy of Communists, extreme-Left
Labor, Nationalists and “Labor” when-
ever these allied interests decide to exert
their influence in the Djakarta “Parlia-
ment,” as they did to force approval of
Ho Chi-Minh,
This step, though the Soekarno
Government vaguely says that it “does
not intend to carry it out till after
studying the position in relation to
U.N.0.,” puts Indonesia. fairly and
squarely into the Communist world camp.
It places it in the position which its
leaders assumed during the war when they
subscribed to the theory of a South-
east Asia co-prosperity sphere from which
all Europeans would be excluded, save
that where then they were prepared to
accept Japan as the leader of this area
they are now prepared to accept Moscow.
Ho Chi-Minh is a rebel against the
constituted Government of Vietnam.
He has no capital. His headquarters are
hidden in the hills of North Indo-China
adjacent to the Chinese border. He is
fighting the constituted and recognised
Government of Vietnam and the French,
with whom we are linked through the
general defence arrangements of the
British Commonwealth against the menace
of world Communism. He is Moscow-
educated, and he was created a puppet
ruler by the Kremlin last January ex-
pressly for the purpose of attacking the
Western Allies as part of the Russian
plan of world conquest. He is armed
by the Russians and Chinese for that
purpose. The war which he is carrying
on has ceased to be a mere affair of
guerrillas.
Ho Chi-Minh has no recognition diplo-
matically in the world save that of the
Communist bloc. Last January he de-
clared himself “the sole Government
representing the legitimate aspirations of
the Vietnam people,” and announced that
he was “ready Jo establish* diplomatic re-
lationships with anv
prepared to respect the Sc W f hich w as
to equality and to natio? a f Viet »am
m order to guarantee peace ? d !E ende nS
and to build world-wide dV he World
C hina recognised Viet-MinK ocrac y ”
picious promptness on Jam ? Wlth sus-
tioning Ho *en-
sentative of the will of the v- &1 repre '
people. ’ Vyshinsky proclaim^?* l * 686
recognition on January 3(1? R . u ®ia’s
his Government had “taken • ! Said that
that the Government represe accou nt
democratic will of the vasTmt n the
the people.” The Czechs J ° r £ y of
Rumanians and HunraH-tn j ! • Poles
lowed Russia’s
they are to be joined hv A And n .°w
neighbor, Indonesia, which wish? Sttalla s
same time to extend its territoton ,*'t'
same soil as that of AiioS; 0 the
defence area, and this in ® a in
declaration by the United 1/?“ 0( a
Department that the general B » ates Slate
of Ho Chi-Minh by Russia and , eptance
h tes “destroys any illusion thin if'-'
purely a nationalist leader ” fa " e 15
him in his true colors Js’ an reveak
Moscow and “the mortal *4*”
independence in Indo-China ” V * tlVe
All this points to the fact that a
traha must never allow West New r Aus '
to, fall into Indonesian hands
points to the urgent need tw
diplomacy in South-east Asia shouldT
b h Ck b d -n a Sh ° W of
which will command respect The hue
ade .of Amboina by P a Comm ” s I
dominated Djakarta Government i s 1
being very close to our shores.
A Half-baked Law.
McNark”: The great McGirr-Finnan
Compulsory Bread-delivery Act, bought
down, peculiarly enough, just a few days
before the N.SJW. elections, fills mv
missus with unholy joy, and the more I
think about the effect on her the more
urgently I suggest that all bakers within
three miles of our eastern-suburbs home
should pack up and go rabbiting or some-
thing.
The Act, it seems, compels any baker
within three miles of dur place to deliver
bread to us if we want it, providing there
are not more than three other bakeries
between him and us As the missus sees
it, that gives her the choice of any one
of any four bakers whose shops are
within three miles, and the last time I
saw her she had a map on the kitchen-
table, a telephone-book beside her, a
pencil in one hand and a frown com-
pounded of anticipation, triumph and
vengeance on her face, what time with a
finger of the other hand she ran through
the bakers listed in the pink pages, mark-
ing off all unfortunate enough to be situ-
ated inside a line on the map showing
a three-mile radius from our place.
Though in a sense 1 believe the bakers
have brought this on themselves, I do
think the punishment is rather severe.
I know what my missus has put up with
in the past 10 years; I know my missus
(I hope), and if my interpretation of the
Act is correct, Heaven help the poor
bakers at a time like this.
Across the harbor from us lies Mos-
man, and there is a baker there with
whom the missus’s married sister had
words some time ago. The dreadful
fellow’s shop is within a three-mile
radius of our place, as are any bakers
who have shops within a line running
from North Head Quarantine Station in
a circle through Dobroyd, Balmoral,
Mosman, Neutral Bay, Pinchgut Island,
Woolloomooloo, the Captain Cook Dock,
Darling Point, Woollahra, Bellevue Hill
and Bondi. It seems there are not three
other bakeries closer to us than t
Mosman shop, so that fellow is hke y
regret that he ever spoke discourteous y
to the missus’s married sister. The ta
that he did it on a Wynyard tram, when
the missus’s married sisters litti Y
kicked him on the shin, can t save h •
I hope his bread is better quality than
we are getting. . . wn
Having thus had my atte f t ° j b y
to this Finnan Act, lam mtr g J
several possible development l eflt
for instance, is now to pre , fro m
of Goat Island or Shark Island
having bread dehvered to the do
the Department of Labor rpnpra i if a
call upon the Surveyor-Geneml
prosecuted baker claims t Js tbe
Bin. outside the three-mile • {o be
distance from customer t taken to
measured direct, or will# d Ba ker
Baker One„ then Baker Two ana
Three to prove Baker Pour_s by
invasion of Sydney sl \ measuring-
men armed with theodolrtes me ifl .
chains and large notebooks
evitable. , v missus that
I’ve tried to f election bluff
the whole thing is a mere aveng e
But she won’t listen i ** "“” S
her married sister it she MB


PLAIN ENGLISH
Honors and Realities.
The restoration of the Federal Honors
lists may not be a matter of much im-
portance, but it at least re-establishes a
link with the Crown which “Labor” when
jn office sought to sever. The desire for
honors is a harmless and natural urge in
the human breast, and if they are well
bestowed honors at least serve the purpose
of calling public attention to the merits
of deserving men, who in Australia
usually get more kicks than halfpence—
the kind of outlook which has developed
during the period of the “class-war” tend-
ing rather to destroy than to make repu-
tations for public service.
The King’s Birthday list was as com-
prehensive as could be expected in a field
in which the commodity is almost as
strictly rationed as eggs. Those in con-
tact with the work of recipients of honors
have no qualms about the elevation of
General Blarney to the rank of Field-
Marshal or of Mr. John Storey to knight-
hood.
Both did a tremendous job for the
country during the war years under ex-
tremely difficult circumstances —General
Blarney in asserting Australia’s rights in
the Pacific and in fashioning the military
defence of Australia, and Mr. Storey
in control of the huge organisation which
he constructed out of nothing to build
Beaufort bombers, the first efficient air-
craft produced in Australia in quantity.
Both, however, would no doubt feel
more satisfaction in their distinctions if
they knew that their work had been last-
ing. But it is a sad fact that Field-
Marshal Blarney would almost need an
electronic microscope to find the Army,
of which he ranks pre-eminent with a title
which savors of corps and groups rather
than of straggling battalions which can
scarcely muster a guard of honor that
knows even how to fix bayonets.
And where is the great organisation
which Mr. Storey built up? It appears
to have gone the way of the Blarney hosts
of 1943-45. Its ghost walks, and that’s
about all.
The Wreckers.
In the past two or three years the
Communists who control the big unions
their nominees “lead” have carried out a
policy of “strikes on the cheap”—a
scheme for causing as much dislocation of
industry as possible while involving as
few men as possible.
Tactics vary in different industries,
but the results are the same. On the coal-
fields , the traditional pattern is adhered
to—petty stoppages on any or no pretext
to ensure that no stocks are built up. In
the heavy industries key men, such as
crane-drivers, are persuaded to find
some grievance to justify a strike ; their
absence ties up the industry as effectively
as if all hands had downed tools, and the
Communists’ objective of lowered pro-
duction of goods essential to national re-
covery is attained.
On the waterfront the technique has
varied from time to time, but the results
have been the same. Ships have been
held up on such issues as the double-
dumped wool dispute or the question
whether first-aid men should belong to
the wharfies’ or the clerks’ union. Over-
time bans have delayed the loading and
departure of ships ; strikes have followed
selected vessels from port to port or have
immobilised a whole port while leaving
others untouched. The most recent ex-
ample of this was in Brisbane, where a
rolling strike” on the trumped-up rota-
tion-of-hatches issue tied up the port and
was settled only by the invoking of the
Crimes Act.
The latest move in this insidious Red
war is the most subtle to date, as it does
not involve any strike at all in the strict
sense of the word. At the present time
many ships are tied up in Australian ports
not because men have walked off them,
but because none will answer calls to fill
vacancies in their crews. The Seamen’s
Union, whose general secretary, E. V.
lo ti’ ew t 0 Asia a few months ago to
attend a conference of Communist mari-
time unions at which'plans were made for
world-wide action in the interests of
Uncle Joe—there seems to be some doubt
as to whether he ever reached the con-
terence, but none whatever that he
approved its decisions—claims that there
is no concerted action to refuse the ships
k m l n . th£ y squire; it is merely, say
ne officials, that their members don’t
seem to want work at the moment.
Comrade Bird, secretary of the Mel-
,branch and one of the men named
Y the Prime Minister in introducing his
ommunist Suppression Bill, expresses
nis viewpoint: “You cannot blame a
an not wanting to go to sea again
strai ght & way when he has a bit of money
saved from six months’ service in a dirty
little coastal freighter.” That may sound
t ? ui fT ar t offering
ror some ships, but not for others.
h 3 a ? wee £ owners of six ships which.
K *** h / d U P Syctocy, Newcastle
r Want °« I ? en tool f the
th • ctlon P a y ln g-°ff the remainder
, and layi J? B : up tl J e Yessels-
„ V wn f^ n llad een loaded, ready for sea
• , m S to complete their crews for
comniikf.re § ? S f rom three A
c :ii a H nn c °nference called by Con-
-adjourned Ham ilton Knight
Z it f fi tv Y° hours because the
arbitrate U nodlinB on w h lc h to
t/ j j .t.
w . a e Bird the owners action
he cannot obtain all the labor he wants.”
There is no law to prevent a factory from
working shorthanded, but, as Bird well
knows, the Navigation Act forbids a ship
from putting to sea undermanned, and
there are few things more useless than a
fully loaded ship lying alongside the
wharf in her port of loading. One
vessel indeed did try to sail without the
extra men she had been seeking for a fort-
night ; lacking but two deckhands she was
within the legal limit as to complement.
Her deckhands refused to take the ship
to sea; they were dismissed, the rest pf
the ship’s company given notice and the
vessel laid up.
It is ridiculous to suggest that any
owner wants idle ships while there is
cargo offering at every port in Australia.
It is undoubtedly true that the
Communists do want idle ships, just as
they want idle mines and idle factories
as an essential part of their disruptive
plan" for discrediting the present social
system in the hope of convincing the
masses whom they wish to control that in
their warped “philosophy” lies the solu-
tion to all human problems. Taken on its
own the incident of the six ships may not
seem important, but as part of the pattern
of world-wide Communist activity it is
one more strong argument in favor of re-
moving the Red-ants from their key
positions in unions engaged “in vital in-
dustries”
. T •
Evatt (Clive) on Housing.
Mr. Clive Evatt, N. S. Wales Minister
for Housing, comments on the article
“Playford’s Housing Effort” (B. 3/5/’5O),
and in doing so extends his neck:
The South Australian Housing Trust has, in
comparison with New South. Wales, approached
housing jn a niggardly fashion.
For example, in Adelaide the Housing Trust
provides no garden paths for Government-built
homes. It dumps ashes or gravel over the front
fence and requires the tenant to do the rest.
The Trust regards this as a legitimate economy.
But is it?
In this State concrete garden paths at the
front and rear are provided by the Housing
Other examples of inferior standards in South
Australia are: — .
(1) In Adelaide the foundations of dwellings
are placed directly on the surface of the ground,
no trenches being dug. In this way the Trust
saves from £BO to £lOO per dwelling.
(2) Internal walls are built bnck-on-edge,
saving £5O to £6O per home.
(3) Stoves, bathheaters, gas coppers, kitchen
heaters, etc., are not purchased by the Trust.
The tenant hires these essential amenities from
the local authorities.
(4) In South Australia semi-detached dwellings
are the general rule. In New South Wales they
are a rarity.
(5) Trust homes are much smaller than New
South Wales Government-built homes, and far
less cupboard-space is provided.
(6) All South Australian Housing Trust
specifications are subjected to the closest scrutiny
to achieve savings in even very minor fittings
and amenities.
The above and other factors demonstrate
how absurd and misleading it is to compare
statistics without comparing standards. The
truth is that South Australian standards fall
so far short of ours in this State that compari-
sons are useless.
Pending a reply from those who think
otherwise about the S.A. building effort,
this much at least may be admitted: the
S.A. building programme cannot come
up to N.S.W. standards in respect of the
number of foundation-stones laid by the
appropriate Minister.
A Verdict on Section 92.
The High Court verdict in the Victorian
road-transport case, while it does not
affect the lawful passage of goods from
one State to another under Section 92 of
the Commonwealth Constitution, main-
tains the right of a State to insist upon
vehicles travelling through that State
obeying State regulations. The reaction
of State Governments to the decision
needs to be carefully watched.
Section 92 states: “On the imposition
of uniform duties of Customs, trade,
commerce and intercourse among the
States, whether by means of internal
carriage or ocean navigation, shall be
absolutely free.”
Two road-transport operators, Mc-
Carter and Gough, attempted to take'a
load from Adelaide to the Riverina
through Victoria on a truck not licensed
under the Victorian Transport Regulation
Act of 1933. Fined £5 and £1 respectively
by a Victorian magistrate, they appealed
to the High Court on the ground that the
Victorian Act contravened the freedom
provisions of Section 92.
Ine High Court, by a four-to-two
majority, held that a vehicle travelling on
Victorian roads was subject to Victorian
road-transport regulations, the principle
premise being that just as such a vehicle
was subject to lighting, driving and other
road laws, so was it subject to the Vic-
torian requirements as to licensing for
commercial goods transport.
The Chief Justice said that the bank-
ing case had decided that laws directly
operating on persons engaged in inter-
state trade and commerce were not in-
fringements of Section 92 if they were what
could fairly be described as “regulations,”
but where a law exceeded a regulation
and passed into a prohibition of trade and
commerce it was invalid. In his opinion
the Victorian Transport Act was a “regu-
lation Act.”
This may or may not be open to
argument—there is talk of a further
appeal to the Privy Council.
Meantime, since inter-State road trans-
port is a large and growing industry, it
will have to be decided sooner or later
by both the people and Commonwealth
Government—as joint guardians of the
Constitution —as to what extent each
separate State can draw revenue from it,
particularly in the form of penal taxation
designed to offset the competition of
private road-transport with State rail-
ways.
The Roads.
Outside the issue with which the High
Court judgments were concerned last week
m the inter-State road-transport case are
some highly important considerations
which must sooner or later compel the
attention of State and Commonwealth
Governments.
Clearly the modern heavy road trans-
port has come to stay. It is a universal
development and an essential in time of
war. No Government, even in the in-
terests of penalising competition with
State-owned railways, could hope to
abolish it, even if it wished to do so.
During recent years, exploiting war-time
experience, increasing numbers of con-
tractors have, with profit, put heavy
motor transport—even “road-trains”—
on the roads between Brisbane and Ade-
laide, and their competition for the
custom is proof of the demand for freight-
consignors. Obvious advantages are;
Faster service.
Connections where railways do not exist.
Immunity from the constant damage
during transit and the pillage which is a
familiar feature in modern sea- and railway-
transport.
The broaching of freights and the
thieving on the railways and the wharves
especially has antagonised most users of
these older means of freight transport.
There are other counts. Shortages in
coal production, strikes which restrict
railway services and tie up shipping, are
now regular features of the working year,
and in every such emergency national
transport services are perforce thrown
upon the roads. Heavy road vehicles are
the natural answer. The N.S.W. State
Government itself was obliged to depend
on them to shift north-western wheat after
the disorganisation of railway move-
ments by last winter’s coal-strike.
Nevertheless, this new transport ser-
vice, especially during the past months
of wet weather, is ruining roads and
creating serious added risk to all
other road-users. For the most
part the national highways, modernised
after World War I, were not constructed
to carry the extra-heavy loads now being
run on some of them. The traffic is
wearing out road services faster than
any road-engineer calculated, and is be-
yond the designed capacity of many
bridges. It is not enough for the heavy-
truck contractor to protest that he pays
his share of upkeep in petrol-tax, heavy
registration fees and special road licences
on top of these. Whether adequate or
not, these are not repairing the road
wear caused all over the country; the
{Continued on next page)
THE McGERL KING.
[Goethe s ballad, ‘ The Erl King,” which Schubert made immortal in song, was first
translated into English <by Sir Walter Scott, who added this note: “To be read by a
candle particularly long In the snuff” —a curious prophecy of how this electoral version
may be read in Sydney.]
O, who rides by night through the woodland so wild?
A cottageless father, embracing his child.
He huddles him warmly beneath his long coat
As he rides to the township in order to vote.
“O father, my father, look there by that tree!”
“My God, in this blackout, what can the boy see?”
“O ’tis the McGerl King with Promise and Spade! ”
“No, son, it’s a smokescreen that swirls in the shade!”
The McGerl King speaks:
‘‘O come and go with me, my beauteous boy,
My mother will give thee a secondhand toy,
A torch that’s run down, or a rattletrap tram.
Or a ten-shilling pound, or a waterless dam.
“O come with me, child ! Here’s my hand for to hold —
Thy clothes may as well be the purest of gold;
I’ll lead thee along to my bounteous board
And show thee the food that thou canst not afford!”
“O father, my father, and did you not hear
The McGerl King, his whisper, so low in my ear?”
“Now, don’t act so terrified, sonny—there, there!
It was just a mysterious blast of hot air!”
The McGerl King:
‘‘O boy, pretty boy, wilt thou come with me
To a harbor I’ll make on an inland sea
Where Department of Fisheries mermaids will play
Thy favorite games on the beach every day ?
“O boy, pretty boy, if thou’lt come, if thou’lt come,
Thou’lt need not a house and thou’lt need not a home;
I’m building a railway right under the ground
Where nought shall disturb thee, and thou shalt sleep sound!”
“O father, my father! I saw it so plain.
My grave in that cemet’ry out in the rain! ”
“My son, O my son, you are wasting your groans—
It’s a street of Clive Evatt’s foundation-stones!’
The McGerl King :
“I see thou’lt not join me ! But though thou dost lag
At least get thy father to vote for McGag.”
“O father! O father! Don’t let go your hands.
The McGerl King is making election demands! ”
“Like fun I’ll return him,” the father replied.
“We’ve arrived at the booth. Please await me outside.”
He left the boy waiting in horror and dread ;
But when he came out, the McGerl King was dead!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


/
incaKflßl
;<
■V i
6661 E-R
CRAVEN "A"
Their quality and smoothness
is unmistakable
made specially ia
prevent sotedfowife
CARRERAS
LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUAUTY
V
m.
- -I
State Governments do not repair the
damage ; and the taxes and fees imposed
are "no longer devoted to road-
maintenance, anyway.
Every rural shire has been protesting
that the Federal Aid Roads Fund, estab-
lished to allocate in expenditure on roads
the revenue from petrol duties, has ceased
to function for that purpose. The States,
so far as they apply motorists’ special
taxation to road maintenance, cannot
possibly do the job unaided, especially
where the damage is caused by inter-
state as well as mtra-State road-trains
Obviously the problem is one that calls
for attention by all Governments f
regulation of the traffic, possi V
extent of limiting all heavy ra , j
air lines are limited to strictly-
routes.
Two things are certain:--
(1) Not only the weight of heavy
but the travelling-speed strictly
vehicles must be policed far more
than they have been. rpnaire d and
(2) Road-surfaces must be mpaneu
strengthened. , main
Otherwise there will s ° ° t o all
roads left which are not a m
users of them.
POLITICAL POINTS
On Saturday the electors of N. S. Wales
will have to decide whether they can
take three more years of McGirr. If they
think they can then they’re beggars tor
punishment, and they must be able to see
more virtue in McGirr than he himself
thinks they see. As is only natural in the
closing stages of a campaign, the “Labor
leader is expressing confidence of victory,
but a few weeks ago in an unguarded
moment he said he expected to win by
three or four seats. A Premier who goes
to the country with a majority of round
about a dozen and says he expects to
come back with three or four doesn’t
really expect to win at all. A swing of
sufficient dimensions to reduce his major-
ity to that size would be sufficient to wipe
it out altogether.
There have been many familiar things
about McGirr’s speeches during the cur-
rent campaign—same old promises, same
old boasts, same old rosy dreams—but
one notable feature of all his previous
election speeches has been almost entirely
dropped; he seems to have completely
forgotten to abuse the Press. Perhaps
the papers have become more kindly to-
wards him or he more tolerant towards
them. Of course, it could be that mention
of the Press might recall his abortive
newspaper ban which was to have won
him this election but was dropped after
its Concord tryout for fear it should lose
it.
Three years ago the people of New
South Wales were promised a convention
which was to draft an Act of Civil
Liberties and Freedoms. As far as can
be ascertained no one had asked for it
certainly there had been no widespread
agitation —but as outlined by its sponsor
James McGirr it sounded like the biggest
thing of its kind since Magna Carta. The
convention was to include “every pro-
fession and calling, the Press and every
interest,” and its task would be to decide
“how best to preserve the great consti-
tutional rights,” and how to embody them
in an Act of Parliament which would
then “be drafted with the utmost skill,”
and would provide that “these great rights
will not be capable of amendment except
with the consent of the people, such
consent to be expressed by referendum.”
That was three years ago. No such con-
vention has ever beep held or even re-
ferred to since by McGirr or his
party, but the man who promised it,
among many other things, has now come
out with another plan for constitutional
icform —a provision to make it impos-
sible for any Government to extend the
life of Parliament beyond three years.
Neither the Liberal nor the Country party
has ever shown any intention of wishing
to alter the term. Can it be that McGirr
has got wind of such a move within his
own party?
Speaking at Gunnedah on the subject
of new States McGirr called the Country
party advocacy of a new State in Northern
N. S, Wales “hypocritical,” and said that
such a State would have to accept its
share of the liabilities of N. S. Wales.
There has never been any dispute on this
point; the draft constitution of New Eng-
land provides for a division of assets and
liabilities “on a fair and equitable basis
as determined by a tribunal appointed by
the Commonwealth in accordance with
Section 121 of the Commonwealth of
Australia Constitution Act.” One liability
the people of northern New South Wales
do not want is Premier McGirr,
Bestowal of a much merited K.C.M.G.
on Lieut-General Northcott, besides
recognising the wartime services of the
Governor of New South Wales, also
solves the difficulty most people have felt
in having to refer to the Governor’s wife
as Mrs. —a situation which had not
occurred since Governor Darling left in
1831. None of the first five Governors
of the State had a handle to his name,
but this does not prevent the majority
of Sydney people referring to the beauti-
ful little lookout at the eastern end of
Farm Cove as Lady Macquarie’s Chair.
There must be a lot in the power of
speech. “Labor” members have said so
many words against the onus clause of
the Anti-Red bill that they seem to have
convinced themselves that they really
mean ’em. The latest Menzies amend-
ments have met almost all of the objec-
tions the Opposition could really claim
as genuine, and in continuing their stand
Chifley and Co. are revealing that it is
the whole bill they object to, not merely
the possibility that non-Communists
might suffer under its provisions. This
despite the fact that they allowed the
bill to pass the Reps, without a division.
Victoria’s Premier Hollway has
announced his intention of bringing in
legislation to curb Communist activity in
his State. The bill will not be introduced
until the Federal Anti-Red Bill is
passed, and its purpose will be to supple-
ment that measure and “to ensure that
Communists cannot exercise dictatorial
power in any Government or semi-Gov-
ernment activity.” In N. S. Wales Liberal
leader Treatt in his policy* speech gave a
promise that Communists would be de-
barred from the State Public Service “or
other Government positions where such
employment can be used to harm the
State.” McGirr has given no such under-
taking.
Dr. Evatt has produced two typical
solutions for settling the Dutch New
Guinea problem: (1) That Australia
should buy the area, but that wouldn’t
work, because the Indonesians would
object and because the Dutch mightn’t
want to sell an area so rich in oil; (2)
that Dutch New Guinea should be
handed over to a U.N.O. trusteeship.
That scheme is enough to damn the Great
Diplomat’s reputation for all time, since
it is obvious that if he could justify it as
logical and equitable, the Dutch could
certainly justify the handing-over of
Papua to U.N.O. And even Dr. Evatt
would scarcely support that.
Back in May a deputation of Upper
Hunter local-government people waited
on Mr. Cahill, the McGirr Minister for
Local Government, and asked for some
information about the new Electricity
Commission. Part of the dialogue:
Ald. Cooper: How could an unbiased
judgment as to the price of the Muswell-
brook undertaking be arrived at when Mr.
Conde, who would be the Commissioner
of Electricity Distribution throughout the
State, is also a director of the Muswell-
brook Coal Company?
Mr. Cahill: Who said Mr. Conde is
going to be the Chief Commissioner? I’m
the man to say who will fill that post, and
I have not said anything yet. You can
forget all about that business. No one but
myself knows who the Commissioner will
be.
Everybody knew a week or so later- He
is Mr. Conde.
Reduced to essentials, the election
policy of N. S. Wales “Labor” is “Judge
us on our record.” Surely Chifley could
have warned them about that!
The currency problem is admittedly a
complicated one, but it surely cannot be
quite so complex as a recent McGirr
statement would make it appear. Accord-
ing to the almost-ex-Premier, when his
opponents speak of putting back value
in the pound they do not mean “more
value in the pound for) the working men
and women, but for those who find the
sinews of war for the Liberal and
Country parties.” Just how a Common-
wealth Bank note can have one value in
the hands of a McGirr henchman and a
different value in the hands of a Liberal
supporter in the next street desperate
Jim did not explain. Perhaps it has to be
worked out on the same formula that
enabled him to arrive at his figure of
83,000 houses.
In arriving at that figure he seems to
have been working without the co-opera-
tion of his Housing Minister Clive Evatt
who last week put the total number of
houses built in N. S. Wales since the end
of the war—almost two years longer than
the period covered by the McGirr, figure
—at 70,000. Clive should at least have
something tangible on which to base his
estimate ; if the custom of presenting a
silver trowel to the layer of a foundation-
stone is still observed a quick tally of his
collection would give a figure near
enough for all practical purposes.
The Wedd Government faced the Tas-
manian House of Assembly for the first
time last Wednesday. The nominal
Premier is Cosgrove, and all the
Ministers are “Labor” men, but with the
appointment as Speaker of the former.
Chairman of Committees, Mr. Spurr, the
position on the floor of the House is
“Labor,” 14 ; Liberal, 14 ; Independent,
1. Cosgrove can continue as nominal
Premier only so long as the Independent
Wedd allows him.
When the Victorian Parliament meets
next Tuesday Hollway, too, will face it as
the leader of a minority Government,
with the Country party holding the
balance of power. There seems, however,
little likelihood of the McDonald clan
doing anything that would bring about
another election. As a result of the recent
one the Hollway party, with 27 seats, has
exactly the same numerical strength as
after the 1947 election; “Labor,” with
25, has seven more members and the
Country party, with 13, seven fewer. The
net result of all the political manoeuvring
of the past two years has been that
“Labor” has won back most of the seats
it lost to the Liberals when the electors
made Cain the scapegoat for Chifley’s
sins and the Libs have compensated
themselves with a corresponding number
of Country-party seats.
Country-party “rebels” who joined the
L.C.P. succeeded in holding their seats
against candidates from their old party
and in addition the L.C.P. captured from
the Country party Grant, Warrnambool
and Korong —the last-named formerly
held by the late Albert Dunstan. Last
week Hollway issued another invitation to
the Country party to join him in a com-
posite Government or to* come to a work-
ing arrangement with his party. It was
not accepted. Inevitably the breach
between the two anti-Socialist parties in
Victoria must be. healed; the only
question is when and on what terms.
Brisbane City Council, which runs the
trams and buses in the Queensland
capital, is tipped to increase fares by Id.
for all travel after 6.30 p.m. on week-
days. This follows the N.S.W. precedent
of penalising night-travellers, apparently
in the belief that night-travel is luxury-
travel and should therefore be penalised.
In Sydney the McGirrs went further by
imposing penal fares on weekend-travel.
All this did was reduce the number of
travellers. It doesn’t seem to occur to
these transport authorities that high
fares stop people from other than
essential travel, whereas cheap fares en-
courage them to travel in their leisure
hours.
Norway has decided to
the luxury of a Legation in Sfr with
to replace its .Minister with 1 n* and
General. Apparently the NorsL , Sul ‘
come to the conclusion that T* have
sense rather than national vanitvT 1011 '
determmc the status of repres e 'L^ ou ! d
other countries. 1 station m
A day that every mother in Amt.
should note, is next Tuesday, June M al ! a
is the day on which payment of 20 i II
ment for the first cWld
commenced had the “Labor” n? h * Ve
in Canberra not decided with™ oBoloo
mate hypocrisy, to sprag the measure. 01 '
The “Shire and Municipal Record
the new McGirr commissions to °od a i ?n
transport and electricity:— SOci alise
Local government has no wish t„ ,
politics in this matter, but it is a so.? p,ay
satisfaction that this °l
undemocratic legislation will be n uJ pH and
trial before the commission gets a hS ° n
clutch on community-owned dectriciw PC n
may have been supposed that the Govern
ment would welcome the onnortima
have its proposals endorsed b? P ?he n!L °
but its uneasiness, and fear of the impend’
mg judgment is revealed in the Premffi
description of the announcement as “ri L
tardly, supplemented by the fatuous com
ment that “It brands the Opposition as a
party prepared to dismiss from office men
of 1 the* people/’ 1 £ndorSed by CVeiy
“The announcement” was that of Liberal
leader Treatt that if elected to power next
Saturday he would repeal the legislation.
Melbourne “Argus” writer Clive Turn-
bull has become nostalgic over what he
calls the “old days” in Melbourne. “The
larrikin is dead now,” says he. “He was
dying even in my childhood when the
remnants of the pushes were fighting their
last battles.” Doesn’t the man ever listen-
in to Canberra?
Senator Morrow, not the most popular
“Labor” Senator among his colleagues, has
at least now provided Chifley ’and
Evatt with a sovereign chance to prove
the staunchness of their principles. The
Senator, who a year ago put himself for-
ward in Parliament as an authority on
the works of Lenin, accused Brigadier
F. B. Hinton, former commander of the
First Armored Brigade, A.1.F., of organ-
ising a Fascist, subversive organisation,
supported by the R.S.L., which was sup-
posedly arming itself with .303 rifles with
a view to insurrection. Chifley and
Evatt now have a chance to demon-
strate their sincerity on the question of
onus of proof by placing the onus on
Senator Morrow to produce proof of his
charges or resign from the “Labor” party.
Brigadier Hinton and the R.S.L. deny
the whole allegation.


THE “PHILOSOPHICAL” VIEW.
“Don’t provoke the fellow, Bob, and be sure you let him shoot first.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Ciooter”: When a man gets a book
published for the first time it inflates
him. He basks in the admiration of his
family and friends, secretly imagines
crowds of people rushing to buy the
thing, and should he have the sheer
delight of seeing some total stranger walk-
ing along carrying the book he feels that
at last he has reached the peak of
achievement. If the book sells reasonably
well and there’s a second edition, he’s
pleased about it; but by now he’s be-
ginning to think there’s something wrong
with modern education —else why is it
that the thing sells in mere hundreds in-
stead of thousands? Anyhow, he may
achieve a second and third book, by
which time he has become a little blase
and informs only some of his friends,
morosely notes that the local library
hasn’t any copies, silently accepts the fact
that the family isn’t stirred any more, but
still retains a little pride. 1 hen comes
the day when he goes into a bookseller s
and finds his works being “remaindered”
on the bargain counter at anything from
a seventh to a tenth of the original price,
and with the final sigh of his totally
deflated pride comes the realisation that
the few bob he used to get in royalties
every six months or so will come no
more. If to humble a man is to make
him good, there must be some Australian
authors just now who could enter heaven
unquestioned.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“C. J. Mennis”: Of Australia’s chief
road hazards, it is hard to choose be-
tween loose gravel, blind rail-crossings,
bad steering and glaring headlights.
Greater than all of these, however, is the
rotten driver —represented, from where 1
sit, by my friend Ramon. Of Latin stock,
he is one jellified mass of misdirected ner-
vous impulse. I’ve known him to chase
a cycling schoolboy diagonally across
the road, collect the terrified nipper on
the bonnet of the car, then, having car-
ried the victim 30 yards before stopping,
curse the poor little coot in fluent Anda-
lusian English for getting in “ze blooda
road.” But his greatest performance hap-
pened when he was crossing a bridge on
the way into town. He spied a man with
a much-bandaged foot leaning against
the bridge on the opposite side of the
road. As usual, Ramon’s steering fol-
lowed his inquisitive eyes—and he drove
expertly over the inviting foot. Came a
roar of anguish, a spurt of blood, and
the unfortunate target collapsed on the
roadway. Ramon generously took him
to hospital. Some weeks later my Latin
friend got a letter from his victim —
thanking him. Ramon, relieved of his
terrified expectation of a Supreme Court
writ, rapturously told me: “I was good
to ze bloke. X cured ze gout een hees
blooda foot.”
* * ♦ ♦
“Jasby”: When I went to school the
past participle of the verb “prove” was
“proved”; when we struggled through
one of Euclid’s propositions to a
triumphant Q.E.D. we understood those
letters to stand for “which was to be
proved.” Nowadays, if I am to believe
the evidence of my eyes and ears, there
is no longer such a word; its place has
been taken by the Scottish interloper
“proven.” Politicians tell me of facts
which they claim have been “proven
time and again,” almost daily I read in
the papers of something which I am
assured has been “proven,” and the radio
advertisers exhort me to use Soandso’s
pills—a proven remedy. I am probably
fighting a losing battle, but Fowler sup-
ports me by pointing out that “proven”
is derived from the obsolete verb “preve”
which continued in use in Scotland after
it had given way to “prove” in Englttsr-
Says Fowler; “Except in the phrase not
proven’ as a quotation from Scotch law,
‘proven’ is better left alone.” Politicians,
journalists and radio announcers please
note.
• ♦ * *
“Cauboy”: In the course of the play
“Harvey,” Joe E. Brown’s laugh-raiser
at the Melbourne Comedy, Elwood P.
Dowd, who has a psychopathic fantasy
about a rabbit, is taken by his sister to
a psychiatric hospital for treatment. He
succeeds in convincing the authorities
that it is his sister who sees the rabbit
and she gets popped into a ward. Some-
thing similar happened to two writer
friends of mine, who wire implored by
another man of letters to get him put into
an institution for treatment, he having got
into an alcoholic nose-dive. They con-
sented, and one Saturday afternoon all
piled into a taxi. The route lay through
the city, and nobody could see any harm
in the prospective patient pouring just
one last libation before he said farewell
to Bacchus. Having stopped at every
pub on the way they reached the sani-
torium a very happy party and asked to
see the matron. The patient’s friends ex-
plained their mission and a few minutes
later found themselves being ushered into
a room by a nurse whom they had great
difficulty in convincing that they were
not the ones needing treatment. In the
"It's not that I mind bein' an angel , Mr.
Weinstain, but what's the kid doin' up
there with an airgun?"
meantime the “patient” was speeding back
to the city, having convinced the matron
that he had brought them, not they him.
* * * *
“Beau Forte”: Although many months
have passed since Chif. lost control of
the nation’s money-bags, the terms
“Working for Chifley” and “It belongs to
Chifley” are dying hard/ Lately a
down-and-out signwriter blew into a
Victorian town. The first job he clinched
was painting the owner’s name on a
motor-truck. Paid in advance, he made
for the near-by pub before he wetted his
brushes and then, suitably braced, he
returned to do the job, only to find he had
forgotten the truck-owner’s name. “Do
y’ know who owns this outfit?” he in-
quired from a passerby. “Yes,” came
the reply, “Ben Chifley.” “Thought it
was a name somethin’ like that,” muttered
the hazy one as he got on with the job.
That’s why the bloke who owned the
truck and one of the best-known names
in the town hit the roof when he found
“ Don't Worry , dear—you Won't have to Wear that dress again."
“Ben Chifley” scrawled over the door of
his truck and the signwriter, down to it
at the back of the pub, in no state to
make corrections.
* * * *
“A.8.C.”: Those who contend that our
•immigration policy will pay dividends in
new ideas and renewed initiative must
have been gratified to read in the classified
columns of the Melbourne “Argus”:
“Young Englishman requires private
tuition in feminine impersonations.”
* * * *
“Bo”: The way of a man with a maid ;
the desperate anxiety of “Labor” to
protect the Comrades from the full effects
of the Anti-Red Bill;
when Sydney’s trams were
last painted; how rain,
once regarded as beneficial,
now results only in spoil-
ing all vegetable crops and
thus keeps the high prices
going ; what makes yester-
day’s colossal price for
used cars shrink so sud-
denly today when you go
to sell yours; who first
thought up the idea of
paying the Andrews Sisters
to sing—these and similar
mysteries are possibly cap-
able of solution. But I've
struck a real poser. He
got off a King-street tram
holding a small suitcase by
the usual handle. But the
thing also had a handle
on the end of it, thus mak-
ing it possible to hold it
vertically as well as hori-
zontally, But why? Not
for comfort, for he was a
sawn-off and he’d have
had to walk lopsidedly
while holding it vertically
if he didn’t want it to drag
along the ground. It might
have been a rich invention
to conserve space in
crowded lifts. My nearest
guess is that he used it for
dragging bottles of his
home-brew around to
parties in the hope that if
kept upright the dynamite
would be less liable to go off. Any other
suggestions?
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Like the abo., the
Romany men are a declining race in Aus-
tralia, and their customs are dying with
them. A European custom was to burn
the caravan in which a gipsy died, but
with the traditional vehicle now a motor-
van of a more or less ancient model, this
would be an expensive operation. The
gipsies must still have a bit of cash about
them, as £3OOO was spent on a recent
wedding at Cranbourne tv-
there the old tradition but eve n
manner that would have h m ~ dibe d in a
Borrow. The happy George
in a Methodist church th & Were s Pfoed
the old marriage-bv-cantn? °?V r elic 0 f
the bride rushed out of her fu g when
and ducked into that of r h lattler ’s tent
Maori songs on the gramrmfi busba nd.
the wonderful gipsy mu ?j one replaced
given many great . has
tion. s ttle ' r inspi ra .
“Percy Pawnticket”: The tramguard
had made several ineffectual efforts to
waken the man in the comer, but each
time he lapsed back into somnolence.
At last the fares-collector grew desperate
and kept at him. “Where do you want to
go?” he demanded when the shaken
man’s eyes blinked at him, more or less
open. The drun£ was moved suddenly
into passionate speech. “I don’t want to
go anywhere!” he declaimed. “I don’t
want to go home, where the wife’s wait-
ing to deal it out to me: I don’t want to
go to work in the morning. I just want
to go on and on and on, sleeping here. I
want to go on sleeping here for years
and years—for fifty-million blanky
years!” He had almost risen from his
seat to give.'force to his declaration; but
he slumped back, and in two seconds he
was as fast asleep as ever.
* * * *
“Old Carp”: Labor-saving devices (B.
10/5/’50)? I recall the time a newly-
promoted G.P.O. brass-hat, who was
impatient of the slow, costly method of
hand-painting public-telephone cabinets m
suburban and city areas, put on the
road a truck equipped with oil-engine,
air-compressor, spray-gun, etc. On arrival
at a cabinet the painter-driver erected a
three-sided canvas screen around n,
masked all glass, and, provided the oil-
engine would start, began to spray-pamt
the structure. On windy days the cabin
was not the only thing to get a coat ot
paint; the passing public also recei d
its share. Claims for reddened raiment
rolled in, and the spray-painting eqmp
ment rolled out into obscurity,
favorable conditions spray-painting
its points, but the P.M.G. concll “ t
sively that it didn’t pay mt e paint
cost three tunes as much to spr YP
cabinets as to do the job by
jjc
“Kelms”: Perth is full of: citizens who
buy lottery-tickets, back rac ®
a chance on the weather t^e ir
act as though they re sincere ! ~
belief that, “on the law of *****
they’re bound to strike its terr ninus,
when a tram oversh william-
careered down a steep “U ® tre e after
street and came to a stop area ,
cleaning up five cars m a woU ld
you’d have reckone the next
have been beseiged hy mot°r should
day. “On the law of f vera | her tram
be quite a while befo identical
repeats that to P«‘ h
spot. But you can me> either-
motorists. You cant passed that
I was one of dozens an extra
empty space and gave t 0 office
quarter of a mile walk °^ rages is that
The funny thing L t you can’t trust
you can bet on them,
AN UNUSUAL HOBBY.
“Modern life has conditioned men to do shopping
they wouldn’t have dreamed of doing years ago. I
know one husband who buys his wife’s corsets and
hats.” —Letter in woman’s paper.
Some fellows, in their zest for Fame,
The spotlight avidly to seek,
Chew up their beer-glass, shoot big game
Or kill a haughty Arab sheik.
Others up slender flagpoles scale
And balance there at dizzy height,
Rendering pop-eyed gazers pale.
“Intrepid heroes!” some will hail;
Others will claim ’twas done to skite.
But here was one who, though he ne’er
Took up a gun, or called upon
Some secret strength like Samson’s hair
Great deeds to do, with lustre shone.
A hero, he, his chosen field
Not desert, alp, jungle or veldt,
But where some pound-notes he could wield.
Nor would he to a salesgirl yield
Before the quality he’d felt!
He recked not that, a male, and lom,
He seemed to be quite out of place
(Like Ruth “amid the alien corn”),
’Mong satins, whalebone, ribbons, lace.
With purpose in his set of jaw,
With battle gleaming in his eye,
He fingered with an expert paw
The girdles and the bras he saw.
They couldn’t stampede him to buy.
Where lesser men all felt like goats
When into this strange world they’d slunk
Holding in nervous hands the notes
Without which they’d be truly sunk,
He bent on gigglers looks of scorn,
Selected lace-ups, spoke pf “mould”
And curves as to the manner born.
Of what in roll-ons should be worn
He uttered theories strong and bold.
With hats he was an expert, too;
Which made him quite as much a freak
As those creations which, with due
Regard for taste, he deemed quite chic.
A hero, aye! But ere he’d bask
In fame—did his heroics quit,
With appositeness we would ask,
When, after homing from his task
His spouse roared: “Henry, these don t tit! f
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Curate’s Egg”: Though no clash
between Diggers and U.S. Marines took
place on the scale described by “Melbn”
(B. 24/5/’5O), war-time censorship did
hush up more than one fracas. That the
affrays were small was due to the mutual
respect of members of two first-class
fighting formations, I saw the Marines
in action once only—in a Brisbane pub
in a fight amongst themselves. What
impressed me was the manner in which
his mates silenced a big top-sergeant who
was turning the bar-room atmosphere
purple after the pinioning of his arms
and legs had restrained him from further
physical violence. One of his buddies
stemmed the torrent of profanity by
simply pinching between finger and
thumb the top and lower lips of the
swearer. Of course, the same effect can
be managed by merely holding the. hand
over the mouth of the recalcitrant one,
but this affords an easy opportunity .to
masticate the hand that serves as the gag.
* * * *
“Bamekaw”; Though used to Tin Pan
Alley “borrowing” airs from dead
masters, and, with banal lyrics, passing
them off as hits of today, I am pained to
note a similar lack of originality afflict-
ing the perpetrators of syndicated serial
strips. Gulliver’s Travels appears to be
the v main standby at present; at least
three popular strip heroes have been in
trouble with the “little men” in recent
weeks—two of them have even suffered
the indignity of being bound by midgets
and lugged along on a cumbersome
wooden platform. Such is the power of
the Press that doubtless some youngster
dipping into Swift’s classic for the first
time will presently exclaim, “Huh! He
got the idea from the comics.”
* * ♦ *
“Emel”: Passengers directed by the
loudspeaker at a Victorian railway-
junction had just quitted the leading
carriages, which had to be shunted off,
when the loudspeaker boomed this
reminder, repeated for emphasis: “Some-
body has left a baby in the front
carriage. Will they please go back and
collect it?”
» » * •
“Caballer”: The shopman assured me
that the. dispatch-case I was examining
was genuine pigskin. It may have been,
but I wonder where they got it. From
my earliest days when one of the village
entertainments was to witness a pig
noisily departing from this world I have
never seen or heard of anyone who has
flayed {he hide off Dennis. My break-
fast bacon bears witness to the fact that
a pig is scraped and not skinned. In spite
of this, throughout my life I have been
offered saddlebags, suitcases and furni-
ture ail allegedly manufactured from an
article that, as far as I can ascertain,
never existed.
* * * *
“Unicorn”: Mention of our disinclina-
tion to sing recalled that three overseas
friends have commented to me on the
same thing. Why do we take our
pleasures so sadly? In my school-days in
Maori land I attended a country school
which had Maori as well as white pupils.
Every Friday we had a singing lesson
which was the curse of the white young-
sters’ existence. Stiff-limbed and rusty-
tongued* we stood up self-consciously and
under pressure squeaked out so-called
songs which must have bees as agonising
to the teacher as it was to us. The Maori
children, however, couldn’t stand up
quickly enough, and they sang as effort-
lessly as birds with* an enjoyment which
made them oblivious to anything but the
heavenly harmony they were creating.
Wherever Maoris gather it’s the same.
It isn’t only that they sing on ceremonial
occasions, but that harmony seems as
natural to them as breathing. To hear
them singing on the shores of a lake with
“Hey, miss, your hood's fallen down."
dusk blue on the water, as they ride along
the country roads, or under the most
prosaic circumstances as they go about
their work, is something to be remem-
bered. Does the advance in so-called
civilisation lose us the capacity for simple,
natural enjoyment?
* * * *
“Looby”; He looked like a tough old
fisherman as he sat down on the same
park bench. A previous occupant had
whacked into a bagful of prawns and a
few heads were scattered around. Gaz-
ing at them, the big bloke sighed, “There’s
a sight that makes me homesick.” I
said, “Born in a fishing village, were
you?” “’Struth, no,” he barked. “I
was born down in Sydney, at the Quay.”
* * * «
“Pong®”: More trouble than enough
can be caused by a few hairs on the
wrong shoulder. When my neighbor’s
wife first found some fair hairs on her
hubby’s shoulder she made light of the
incident as she smilingly removed them,
but when a few strands of brunette
“Miss Simpson! Your SLIP is showing !”
thatch came to light the following night
she didn’t smile so convincingly. The
auburn tresses which on the third night
gleamed like copper cotton on his coat
caused the good lady to eye him accus-
ingly and relapse into ominous silence.
Before leaving the office on the fourth
night her hair-haunted spouse took off
his coat, discovered several long hairs —■
planted, he was now convinced, by some
practical joker—brushed them off and
hurried homewards, confident that this
time, anyhow, there would be no cause
for strife. But again he was wrong, for
when the overcoat was removed the
shoulders of his new tailor-made blue
were festooned with strands of,-as the
drapers say, “every wanted color.” Only
the kiddies and the fear of scandal pre-
vented Mum from walking out there and
then. A tailor friend at the golf-club
saved the day. “Wish I could get horse-
hair,” he moaned. “The fine hair we have
to use nowadays for padding keeps work-
ing through the coat-shoulders. I’m get-
ting complaints every day.” That night,
with the aid of a razor-blade, my neigh-
bor convinced his wife of his innocence.
At least she said she was convinced, but
he says she looked at him as if she
half suspected he’d had the shoulders
re-padded to fool her.
* * ♦ *
“B. A. Ker”; Setting out the building
alignment for a new shop, I was surprised
to find that the surveyor’s pegs indicated
a footpath 13ft. wide. No other foot-
path in the district being more than 12ft.
in width, there seemed to be no reason
for the extra foot. It wasn’t until years
afterwards I unearthed the little drama
behind that narrow strip of land. Before
the street had been formed two old-timers
owned large blocks of land which ad-
joined near the site of the present
thoroughfare. A had got no assistance
from his neighbor when he erected the
fence, so he built it on his own ground.
Deciding, some years later, to subdivide
his block, A again approached B with a
proposition. The proposal was that both
should give 33ft, on each side of the fence,
which would make a road of normal
width and provide a frontage for smaller
blocks owned by both parties. B refused
point-blank to contribute any land, but
knowing the street was essential for A’s
subdivision plans, prepared to subdivide
his own block after the street frontage was
supplied gratis. He underestimated A.
The road was made all right, and on the
initial mover’s property, but it was sur-
veyed to leave a foot of land bordering
the fence—the fence that A owned. Both
men were long past earthly wrangling
before the council resumed the barrier
and left a wide footpath and a minor
puzzle.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: A chap who led a
Cossack troop in post-war Germany has
turned up in Perth as New Australian,
and he hopes eventually to demonstrate
some of the Cossack technique of horse-
manship. If he organises a show it
should go over well, because, despite the
influence of the “sport,” Australians do
love horses and good riding. This chap
could find plenty of raw material for his
act in the nor’-west or the Kimberleys—•
they’d soon master the knife-throwing
antics and the gallery-playing of the
Cossacks—but he’d have to change their
names and swear they were born within
sight of the Don. Cossacks and Texans
have cornered the world supply of
equestrian fame. Australian sheep- and
cattle-country men are, on the whole,
better riders but poorer showmen, and
even their own city folk don’t really be-
lieve in them.
* * * *
“Bate”; Rain insurance (B. 7/6/’50)?
Our local show committee made a
practice of taking out a policy against 10
points of rain falling between 10 a.m. and
3 p.m. We had a rain-gauge in the show-
ring ready for use, but the insurance
people didn’t trust the dogs engaged in
the sheep-dog trials) and insisted upon
going by the gauge at the post-office.
One year we had a beautiful day—cloudy,
but otherwise fine. Imagine our surprise
when the postmaster rang up soon after
three to say that we had scored. He’d
registered 12 points at the post-office,
♦ * * *
“Mullum”: Some months ago Bulletin
pars, told of people putting their trey-
bits into bottles as a means of saving
for holidays. Now the bank-tellers of
our town are complaining that they have
no threepences. Each week one or other
of the banks has to write to Sydney for
further supplies. Usually silver coin
leaves a bank, changes hands a couple of
times and returns. Apparently the treys
are being stored away in gin-bottles as
fast as the Mint can turn ’em out. Isn’t
it time someone took a bottle or so to
the bank?
* * * *
“Becks”: In saying that unhappiness,
not happiness, produces spontaneous sing-
ing, “Spasebo” (B. 7/6/’5O) generalises
too much. Admittedly there is such a
thing as whistling to keep one’s courage
up, and I’ll grant that the housewife who
sings as she does the washing-up does so
more to take her mind off her worries
than to express her joyance at the task,
but that explanation does not fit the
spontaneous singing of crowds. Take
“Spasebo’s” own illustration—the singing
of Welsh football crowds. The theory
would cover their singihg in the mines or
the factories, but not at the weekend foot-
ball-game, where surely they would be
happier than they have been all the week.
Furthermore, football barrackers are a
most partisan species ; if th 6 theory is
correct only the supporters of the losing
side should sing—to console themselves at
their team’s defeat —while those who have
just seen their team kick the winning goal,
being supremely happy, stand round in
blissful silence. That ain’t so.
• ♦ * *
“Hamfat”; A handwriting-expert in
England has claimed that, apart from
being able to describe a man’s general
characteristics from his handwriting, he
can tell his nationality and even the part
of his native land in which he was reared.
The mind specially trained to it can de-
tect minute differences in almost anything
in which to the ordinary man differences
seem improbable. I am reminded of an
old-timer Thespian, James Beattie
Fitzgerald, whose main food was whisky,
but who was so good an actor that he
could get through creditably when well
pubbed. Fitz’s forte was Irish dialect;
in his youth he had wandered the length
and breadth of Erin. On tour he invari-
ably stayed at the Shamrock Hotel, or, if
there was no Shamrock, the Harp of
Erin, and, engaging the proprietor in con-
versation, had little difficulty in locating
the county from which he had
sprung. Then he would say “Go on
speaking,” and would soon name a
village, mention of which would stir his
victim’s heart, Fitzgerald invariably
would have been born within two miles
of that village, his mother having been
on a visit to some friends (if he named
the O’Connors or the Murphys, the
excited Bung would soon supply the de-
tails himself) at the time. After that
Fitz was “on the house,”
REFINED.
»A British Judge said the word ‘bloody’ was
sometimes used by educated and refined people
whose heads happened to come into contact with
the door lintel. ‘But,’ he added, ‘it is not only
sometimes, but always, used by the vulgar and un-
educated as a forceful adjective for the purpose of
emphasis.”
“Vulgar and uneducated,
That’s not how I am rated;
For I use the adjective
Only when I’m put about:
Hat blows off; a touch of gout;
Row with neighbors where I live—
Times when, 1 swear, much comfort it can
give;
Or when a dog has bit me,
Or someone big has hit me;
Occasion —it matters not.
Tm not vulgar, not when I
Use it when 1 make reply
While my temper’s frayed and hot.
Just to relieve my feelings on the spot;
Or when I spill my sherry,
Fall off a tram or ferry.
Or my teeth fall out and break,
My full bottles 1 can’t trace.
Or my horse falls in the race;
When I feel my tongue just ache
To shout the word for my own morale’s sake
It is too great a treasure,
To use, say, just for pleasure
Or for foolish emphasis.
I don’t use it all the day—
Throw its excellence away;
But the use of it I’d miss
If 1 dropped it in times of a crisis.
“Vulgar and uneducated”
Folk “always” use, ’tis stated.
This same adjectival ace;
But, though occasionally used,
I’m educated (not excused),
And still refined, so, in my case,
The judge, it seems, has saved my bloody face.
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Blime”: It was a long-abandoned
cemetery in the forgotten gully of an old
mining town, inhabited by rabbits, black-
berries and ghosts. Here and there a
moss-grown tombstone stood upright,
while others toppled drunkenly or
sprawled sideways across rows of name-
less mounds from which even the number-
stakes had long since disappeared.
Presently there was movement behind a
clump of bushes and an old bloke
appeared. He was carrying a great bunch
of wattle and wild daisy and, hobbling to
a large headstone in a corner, he pro-
ceeded to arrange his floral tribute. I
crept nearer. “Nineteen hundred and
ten” I glimpsed on the stone. “Who was
she?” I asked quietly. The old bloke
looked up with a sigh. “My wife,” he
whispered reverently. He placed the
last sawn-off bottle of flowers on the
grave, gathered up the scraggy remnants
“Hold everything until he shouts. He's Won the lottery
and, shoving them into a jar he kicked
out of the weeds, mooched across and
placed them on an unnamed mound" in
the later side of the cemetery. “Who?”
I inquired again. He glanced at the
mound. “My wife,” he returned, in-
differently. I was about to move off
when I caught the sound of a bell, and
down the bush-track came a woman
driving a couple of milkers. The old
bloke met her at the fence, told her off
about something and ordered her on.
“Who’s that?” 1 asked, interested. He
glared disgustedly after the milkers. “My
wife,” he snarled.
* * * ♦
“Kriz”: In many years’ shell-opening
on pearling-luggers out of Broome I
found that the great majority of pearlers
relied mostly on the indications from the
pressure of the atmosphere rather than
any underwater movement reported by
the diver (B. 3 /5/’5O). In any case a very
heavy swell stirs up the bottom, making
the water so “dirty” the diver comes up
on deck and stays up, because any severe
movement makes it almost impossible for
him to see any distance along the ocean
bed. Certainly the diver has most of the
say as to when they should pull up the
pick and depart. On one lugger I was on
the colored diver’s bad judgment nearly
cost his and our lives. Wc were off
Wollal, out from the Eighty Miles Beach,
when the barometer dropped almost
overnight to 29.98. The average reading
is somewhere round 30.20, so I was all
for making for Desault Bay and shelter,
but the diver was on good shell and in-
sisted on having another “dip.” While
he was down the light sou’-easter dropped
to the ominous flat calm. We got him up
just as the big blow came out of the nor’-
west. We managed to ride it out for
24 hours before limping back to Man-
grove Creek and safety.
♦ * » •
“Gravelsnatcher”: Recently the Council
debated the possibility of birds engaging
in “organised” aerobatics. Do they also
sing in unison? The question is prompted
by a musical chorus drifting in through
my window. Broadcast by a team of
jubilant magpies, it’s simply the age-old
warblings with which the birds, and their
ancestors, have greeted each new season
since the avian world began. Maybe there
are variations interposed by some songster
in a more-than-usually-joyous mood, but
here’s my point: there seems to be a
definite pattern to the song, with parts
allotted to each singer. I’m sure I can
detect where each voice takes over, but
the synchronisation is perfect enough to
leave room for doubt. The birds’ evident
enjoyment of the singing, however, is
beyond doubt. Now they have ceased,
and are viewing with suspicion the
approach of a couple of young Australian
humans, armed with catapults. The lads
are yodelling, throwing into the early
winter air notes which strongly resemble
the liquid tones of the magpies’ chorus.
There is no conscious imitating on their
part, and they are obviously imbued with
the same spirit that drew the song from
the birds at which they are about to aim
—unsuccessfully, of course. Maybe
there’s some spirit abroad which, in-
articulate in itself, finds expression in the
song-notes of birds and boys,
* ♦ ♦ *
“Old-timer”: We were all in the back
parlor of the Royal, surrounded by
beers, when the sergeant poked his head
in Knowing that it was after hours we
fell silent, waiting for him to take our
names. “Any of you blokes,” he asked,
“see anything o': a cove with a straw-
decker hat?” A straw-decker hadn’t been
seen in that district since 1911. “Little
cove,” went on the sergeant. “Very dark
face, walks with a slight limp? He’s
wanted.” We hadn’t seen him. “If y’
do,” said the Law, “let’s know, will y’.
He’s wanted.” By this time we under-
stood that our drinking after hours would
be ignored and we were so grateful that
we’d have done anything. Not long after
the sergeant withdrew a little dark man
in a straw-decker slipped into the parlor
and asked for a beer. Big Fleming
slipped quietly to the door, Little Curl
stood near him, I got between him and
the window, the publican picked up the
mallet with which he knocked in bungs
in kegs. The silence while he downed
his beer struck the little cove. He looked
round furtively, gulped the beer, stole an-
other look at Big Fleming and said,
nervously, “What’s wrong with youse?
Fleming said, “Nothin’. Y’ better have
“P'rhaps YOU’D like to settle this argument for us?”
another beer. Murph [to the publican],
you ring up the sergeant.” Next in-
stant the little bloke had shot through
Fleming’s legs and bolted. We chased
him through the pub yard, over the fence,
across the railway, through the Anglican
Church grounds, and down by the lagoon
Little Curl brought him down. He
struggled all the way to the police-station,
but we got him there and proudly
presented him to the sergeant. 4 Your
wife,” said the sergeant to him, 44 sent in
a message that your two horses have
cleared out and she’s stuck out there with
the van. Y’ better go an’ see what y
can do.” For a month after that the
boss couldn’t make out why none of us
wanted to go to town.
* * * *
“Bo”: Arthur, the young new hand,
was optimistically trying to bowl over
bunnies with an old pea-rifle. After a few
shots one of the bullets stuck a few
inches from the end of the barrel. He
poured some water down the breech,
slammed in another bullet and, holding
it out a few feet from him, fired. The
boss came out of the feed-shed at the
double on hearing the explosion. He got
to Arthur just as that experimenter was
struggling to his feet; in his hand were
the remains of the pea-rifle, and on
his face a look of triumph. “By gosh,
it got rid o’ the stuck bullet all right,
sir; but next time I won’t put quite
so much water in!”
HI « * *
“Heresone”: Why all the argument
about half-full and half-empty (B.
22/3/’5O, etc.)? The ball-and-cham has
it all worked out, and I cite the wood-box
as the correct example. So before I
wearily reach for the axe again here s
your answer: it is half-full when the level
is rising, half-empty when it is going
down.
# ♦
“Carlyle”: Heavy rain which fell
recently at Polkemmet, near Horsham
(Vic.), resulted in more than 100 acres
of grazing land becoming an Bin. swamp.
Interesting inhabitants not previously seen
in the Wimmera were seven birds identi-
fied as Cape Barren geese, which are
native to the Bass Strait islands and the
Recherche Archipelago in southern
Westralia. The birds appear water-shy.
They feed at the water’s edge and, except
for their size, look like domestic birds
or inmates of the zoo. Blue-grey, and
measuring almost 3ft. from beak to tail,
their uncertain temper repels advances.
Some 300 swans and wild duck keep them
company on the temporary lake, luc' -
dentally, an extensive gypsum deposit be-
neath this land is thought to account for
a phenomenon which occurs there: tor
several hours after heavy rain has fallen
millions of air bubbles rise and break the
surface.
« ♦ ♦ ♦
“J.W.”: “Rooster” (B. 24/5/’5O) tries
to debunk the idea that there has been
a “catastrophic” overbalancing o(f the
earth, but he does not disprove that there
has been a gradual genuflection if not a
complete somersault. Fossil remains of
fauna and flora prove that
conditions once existed as quatori al
the Siberian ice-fields; there n ° rth as
that the tropics have shifted hn^ 1^ 1100
and south in slow motion on, north
the existence of coal in the AntaW rWlse
the mummies of long-haired 2'?
in Alaska would be inexplicable 118
geologists deduce from the S ° me
polarity of certain rocE toat ttepS
have changed places at least once during
the life of our planet; that they wobbled
for aeons, and that they are now settling
down to a permanent equilibrium. This
theory would explain the migrations of
birds, brutes and men, and simplify the
evolution of whales from land quadrupeds
to aquatic mammals. No other theory
can account for the wide dispersion of
the human race with its endless varia-
tions of pigmentation and acquired
characteristics. The advance and retreat
of the ice-caps was necessarily followed
by the warm zones. The absence of evi-
dence of an ice-age at the present equator
is of only negative value. The idea of
cosmic evolution is new. Every day dis-
closes new facts about the earth’s crust.
But it is certain that if the poles have
changed their spots, so also must the
meridian have adjusted its girdle.
DC * * *
“Sarina”: Anybody who doesn’t think
sulphur fumes are unpleasant should try
inhaling them in a confined space (B.
24/5/’5O). Or, better still, touch a hot
iron to a lump of the sulphur-graphite
mixture that is sometimes employed m
stopping holes in vessels that are to hoi
cold liquids. The sulphur gives off an
acrid, dark smoke that acts on ones
throat like a wood-rasp,
£ $ ♦ *
“S.G.”: Snakes with a tummyful (B.
24/ 5/ *50)? I recall an old carpet snake
that lived in the rafters of our unlined
house at Guildford (W.A.). f
seen him glide between rafte- and root
to eet a mouse and then stretch ou
£<£ze until his digestive J«e-- £
moved the bump and alio
retreat. # *
“Bass* Endean”; MaybeL
end of winter I’ll thwk J'f r jecall can
the moment no sprmg fhat r tfae
compare in beauty with the
summer-sated earth shak S through
of its hair and smiling P t so aking
features still wet T and green, has
rains of winter. Life, nc have
already sprung into being , has re .
taken voice and ’ win §> “L ft ogS are re-
turned to the lakes and thoUsa nds of
joicing; in the P^^ r fSve, and
earth-burrdwing spiders a ove r
their webs lie like a misty ‘ lak e
the greening pastures. in couple-
dragon-flies are gcstasy 0 f
glorying shameless qhe magpif
their new-found ®f^ te P ’ an d the black-
warble has a richer n » Q r ed leg*
and-white snipe,.with then l S d ric h
and curious barking W,**™ Even the
feeding on the lake s S summer
trees which through bulks against
proudly reared their 8 fort to their
the sun to give coo eshed rejuvena-
mother earth, stand tke raindrop s
tion, still holding tenderly tn^ tched t 0
which their limbs were the re
catch. And from the ean iiiifeneed
comes a
sweet aroma your
to justify. itself. , You coun|r y, with
spring. Give me th ia ne w life
the first rams and the tang
the air.
BRIDLE TRACKS.
Out of the years that the locust has eaten,
Out of the days that are over and fled
Loom the old roads that the bare hoofs have
beaten,
Wind the old ways that were lovely to tread.
The path through the horse-paddock, picked up
so early
Before the dark mantle of night was with-
drawn,
While far to the eastward all rose-pink and
pearly
One golden-edged cloud gave us hint of the
dawn;
The path through the scrub at the end of a
muster,
When night was pitch-dark lb the heart of
the pine
And threatened a trip and a head-over buster
To any who strayed but a yard from the line;
The track through the bluegrass that reached to
our irons,
The trail with the barley-grass brushing our
knees —
As strong as the musical call of the sirens
That rang to the Argonauts over the seas.
The road that led home from the shed to the
station,
Six furlongs of dust blowing full in one’s face,
That road that presented a strange fascination
To all who were ready to make it a race;
The road to the township when Saturday found
us . , ,
Astride and alert on our favorite hacks,
With shadow and moonlight above and around
us, , .
Adventure before us and Care at our backs;
The same road at dawn, when we‘broke up the
dances
And swung to our saddles with laughing
good-byes,
To take with us homeward a dream of bright
glances
And maybe the love-light in somebody’s eyes.
Those old trodden pathways! How often I
wonder
Who rides them today over sandhill and plain.
Sun or stars overhead and the dust-devils under,
And red on the rowel and foam on the rein!
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


It's here! The Amazing 2-in-l “BAUTA”
AS WELL AS WRITES!
Here’s proof that Britain can really make it! “Balita,” the two-in-one Ball pen-lighter, is
the best idea in years .... is equally efficient at filling in crosswords as it is at lighting a
smoke. McGee’s have it—for only 25/ —a limited number, so please be early
whether you write or call.
THE BALL POINT THAT
ANDREW McGEE
70 PITT AND 1 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
£f.
m
Chrome Plated,
25/-
Gold Plated, 32/6. Pen Refills, 2/-
“Kelms”: “Tea-tree” is the logical
spelling for that Wide variety of shrubs
and trees which are commonly grouped
together under that convenient designa-
tion (B. 17/5/’5O). Cook originally gave
the name to the Melaleuca, from which
his men brewed tea, and the addition of
which into their home-brew was held to
make the beer more palatable. In W.A.
the name has been taken to cover such
dissimilar forms as the red bottlebrush
—a diminutive swamp-growing shrub —
and the “paperbark,” a tree, also swamp-
growing, which can attain a height of
150 ft. and a girth of three to four feet
in diameter. Such specimens are not as
rare as city dwellers may think, and,
growing in the vicinity of the bottlebrush,
they illustrate the elasticity of the term
“tea-tree.” Both forms are more interest-
ing to the naturalist than their more
famous neighbors the jarrahs, the gums
and the banksias. The bottlebrush can
survive almost complete immersion every
winter, yet its roots are sufficiently deep
and rot-resistant to enable it to withstand
a dry summer in which the swamp may
vanish and the water-table recede to
several feet below ground-level. The
paperbark can also stand wet feet, and
the bark from which it takes its name
should be ranked as one of nature’s
wonders. After a century of futile effort
Sou’-Westralian kids are still trying to
make canoes out of the huge sheets of
bark that can be stripped from it, and
I’m not surprised at “B.A.K.’s” assertion
that uses are at last being found for it.
Incidentally, the term ti-tree is a mis-
nomer. The ti-tree, Cordyline termin-
als, is a native of New Zealand.
* * * *
“Solitude”; The old pack was dream-
ing along in the lead and the mob travel-
ling nicely when we caught the sound of
a car in the rear. Immediately we began
moving the bailies off the road, keeping
an eye on the big war-minded bullock
that charged under every unreasonable
excuse. The car raced up, braked, missed
a steer by a miracle, and tore on round
the bend through the leaders. Then came
a sudden skidding, a sound of strife, and
Seventyfiver spurred on to investigate.
When I arrived he was standing beside
the old pack-horse, listening to the bloke
in the car. “It’s lucky I didn’t smash my
car,” the wrathful voice bawled. “Yes, I
know he was on the side of .the road, but
there should be someone with him to
show him the way.” “Aw, Punch don’t
need nobody t’ show him the way,”
drawled the old bloke mildly. “Makes no
difference,” snapped the bloke. “You
don’t own the blasted road, do you?”
Seventyfiver fingered the pack’s grazed
shoulder. “No, sonny, no,” he said sadly.
1 found it, that’s all. Put them blaze-
marks on the trees there, and brought the
first cattle in over it for the boss’s
old man when he selected the
station.” The driver slammed the
door and covered Seventyfiver with
his dust. The old bloke grew silent after
that. Mile after mile he drooped in the
saddle, shaking his head sorrowfully at
old Punch, or staring into the sunset.
"I'll bet you don't drag the blankers off me tonight."
Nearing the next homestead we spotted
the same car parked on the roadside, and
as the leaders balked, I hurried on.
There was no sign of the car-owner. The
bailies gave trouble, and, leaving Blue
with the tail, Seventyfiver too came on to
ease the mob round the bend. Then a
commotion in the rear called him. A low
bawling, several loud bangs, then Seventy-
fiver’s whip joined in. I don’t know what
happened. I didn’t inquire. But when
they caught up there was splintered glass
on the mad bullock’s head, and decorating
the old bloke’s mug was a look of unholy
glee.
* * * *
“Perseverando”: Although only about
30ft. high, a tuart growing above the
Chrystal Cave at Yanchep National Park,
W.A., has one root that goes down for
70ft. through earth and limestone; then
it is exposed perpendicularly in the cave
for 20ft.; after which it can be traced
for another 200 ft. along the floor where
an underground stream murmurs through
the cavern.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Sunday afternoon, and
I’m having a few puffs on a long, flat
slab of sandstone that tops a cliff just as
high as the trees at its foot. Below these
nearest branches the green slopes steeply
into the valley, and the air is so still that
halfway up the other side the smoke from
a smouldering log climbs in a straight
column. Cars on the nearest road sound
faint and far, and the only movement in
sight comes from honeyeaters, busy on
the early banksias. Yellow-wings pre-
dominate, but there’s a spinebill or two,
and from a prominent dead branch a
white-eared honeyeater alights and sends
his musical “chichonk” echoing into the
valley, then dives back to the nectar. It
was not always so deserted, for beside
me are a couple of thin grooves chipped
from the rock, leading from shallow hol-
lows and converging under a circular
clump of grass about 18in. in diameter.
A tug at the grass tufts reveals the story ;
the roots are matted and white, “pot-
bound,” for they are filling a blackfel-
lows’ drinking-hole—the little grooves
collected the water for it. - The whole
clump lifts out cleanly and fits snug again
when replaced. Along the sandstone shelf
are three emus cut in the stone ; they
vary somewhat in condition, pose and
number of toes, but their identity is be-
yond doubt. And near them, about 6ft.
apart, are crude footprints—or, rather,
the outlines of feet, also carved from the
rock to show that a great spirit passed
there and sanctified the ground. Primi-
tive? Maybe, but no more so than those
who crudely chipped L.M. and J.B. on
each side of a badly-battered-looking
heart on a shelf near by.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Empire Day just over, and
with the names of Empire-builders the
youngsters had been spouting about at
school still ringing in my ears I’m up the
gully with old Charlie getting a load of
firewood. “I’ll show you an interesting
bit o’ track while we’re here,” he said.
“Part of the first road over the moun-
tains.” To casual observation it was just
a track, but the old boy knew the story
of these hills backwards, and he was
worth listening to. Old slabs of sand-
stone were pointed out on the down-
hill side of the track, overgrown now, but
obviously placed there to support that
side of the “road” ; while on the other
side he’d scrape away the moss and lichen
and find pick-marks put there by men
whose tools, possibly, made less noise
than their chains. But when the track
suddenly swung right and clawed its way
up a fierce pinch to squirm through a
narrow saddle I stopped and looked at
him ; his grin was awaiting me. “Thought
thafd puzzle you,” he chuckled. “Must
have unyoked and doubled the teams to
get up there, an’ every spare man shovin’
chocks behind the wheels. Cornin’ down
they’d have to sprag the wheels with
poles, an’ even then I s’pose some of ’em
missed this bend at the bottom.” He
paused awhile, picturing those struggling
teams, then “You or me would have
edged round this bend an’ found an easy
way up round the end o’ the spur; but
there’s one thing you’ve got to remember,
Billy. Those blokes was on’y English-
men,”
* * * *
“The Bunyip”: My little patch of
khol-rabi is doing well. I’d never grown
the stuff before, but because the garden
was pretty bare for the winter and I read
that it was easy to grow I pulled a packet
from the stand in the shop and planked
down my sixpence—because I wasn’t
game to ask for it. Wonder if a similar
timidity in others re the pronunciation is
responsible for its not being more widely
grown? “What you got in there?”
queried one neighbor. “Coal-rabby,” I
told him. “Coal-rabbi,” he corrected;
so, thus assured, I was ready for the
bloke.on the other side. “Aw, that stuff,”
he commented. “But isn’t it called koll-
rarby?” I didn’t know, and the English-
man across the road who plumped for
“cool-rebbeh” or something didn’t get the
support he felt he was entitled to, either.
Anyway, it’s coming along nicely, and
if it tastes as good as it looks I’ll buy
another packet next year; but what the
blazes will I ask for?
* * * *
“Jackeroo”: We had spent two days
building a bit of a roof over the outdoor
forge and anvil. After hammering in the
last nail, I stepped back to admire the
job, and asked my offsider, Old Baldy,
what he thought of it. He took a screw
up at it and said: “Ain’t so sure —don’t y’
think it’s a bit too high to hang a water-
bag from?”
♦ * * #
“Mat’s Mate”; The boss brought a
well-dressed chap out to where we were
toiling on the fence and introduced him
as a candidate in the forthcoming elec-
tions. He wasn’t a bad sort and talked
to us for a while, then shook hands, said
he’d have to get along and hoped “you
chaps will give me a vote.” “You got
no hope of gettin’ a vote out o’ me,”
Mat said. “I wouldn’t vote for any o’
you blokes if I was paid for it.” “Oh,”
the chap said, “I see, you support the
other party.” “I do not,” Mat said
emphatically. “If I had me way I’d bung
all them politicians back t’ work.” “Don’t
you believe in politicians?” “I used t’,
but not now.” “But somebody has to
govern the country. do you sup-
pose we’d get things done without a
Government?” “Aw, I suppose that’s
right,” Mat conceded, “but, strike me
fat, it could ha’ bin done a lot better if
you silly cows hadn’t gone an’ given the
wimmen a vote. Ever since I read about
it I reckon y’re just a lot o’ soup-heads.
Wimmen votin’—’strewth!” And Mat
disgustedly picked up the crowbar and
drove it viciously into the posthole. -
* * * *
“Zake”: “Some o’ these blokes are
dumb-bells,” said Dad, as he opened a
parcel in the kitchen. “Why, what is it.
Dad?” asked Mum. The old man un-
rolled the parcel. “The mailman knows
there’s a standin’ order for him to bring
out a coupler pound o’ veal chops every
Tuesday. Well, with them relatives o’
yours stoppin’ for a bit I thought we
could do with some more, so I makes it
six pounds, and here’s the goat only left
the usual two. It was as plain as a
pikestaff, too —I left six matches in the
kero.-tin on the gate.”
DOLLYING.
At night-time in our kipsy,
After we’d had our tea,
I dollied quartz for Father,
Crushed it upon my knee.
There wasn’t time for homework,
I had a job to do,
For Mother wanted money,
And 1 made something, too.
I liked it more than learning,
I didn’t want to know
The names of foreign rivers
And where they used to flow,
Or history or parsing,
And I let such things slide,
For I, too, had gold fever
That burned me up inside.
Our “drawing-room” was busy,
Like claims up in the scrub;
Here Father did the panning—
His creek-bed, Mother’s tub;
Our tank supplied the water
Within his miner’s dish
And Mother’s job was picking
Out quartz to have a wish.
She looked for specks much bigger,
And sometimes (mock delight)
Would say, “Oh, here’s a nugget,
We’re on a find all right!”
Then Father’d fix his spectacles
And say to her, for fun,
“A most successful crushing,
Fifty ounce the ton!”
Sometimes when things financial
Had sunk down more than low
We’d sit up till the morning
To give our luck a show,
While Mother made us supper
Of toast and fat, maybe,
While we with faith continued —
The miner’s recipe.
So, where the bright fire crackled,
Our “claim” was warm and snug
As we mined by the fireside,
Our quartz upon the rug;
And I had dreams when dollying
The quartz upon my knee,
For Father was a miner—
And that’s my pedigree.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


fds
BOARD OF DIRECTORS*
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raw» t
C. 8.8.; G. S. Colman, C. 8.8.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney
Jones: J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman);
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E. (
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdety.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Are you going
Before going abroad it is well to consider th'e advantages that accrue * or ” f Agent. It
of The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Limited as Y oul or dividends
supervises business affairs and interests, remits income regular y, co ec ® t ’ o f moneys*
and interest, prepares Land and Income Tax Returns, attends to t e mve
the payment of rates and taxes, and performs all similar services. interview can
Ample security is offered for the proper fulfilment of all such obhga ions.
be arranged to suit your convenience.
m
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET,
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £966,706
SYDNEY,
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Total , . Ex ‘ Wr nff n FuS
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £
Ordinary Department.
’44.14,410,742 7.009,339 1,487,834 574,532 5,339,037
’45.15.386,670 7,734,318 1,602,764 30,099 6,019,489
’46.16 438,118 7,999,980 2,152,283 48,261 6,237,594
*47 17 731,409 7,478,081 1,855,824 111,608 8,285,896
•48.19,245,343 7,983,274 1,891,804 83,699 9,286,566
’49.20,986,973 8,371,538 2,131,761 115,710 10.367,964
Surplus sale assets 118,85.4
Industrial Department.
Total Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’44.4,550,853 1,897,507 985,776 13,598 1,743,972
’45 4 845 391 2,053,209 1,006,856 7,226 1,778,100
’46.5’.129,915 2,245,238 1,152,203 6,826 1,725,648
’47.5 332,978 2,471,039 1,064,886 16,845 1,780,208
’48.5,653,879 2,638,262 1,034,426 15,788 1,965,403
’49.5*809,712 3,287,754 519,937 10,312 1,991,709
Surplus sale assets .. •• •• 25,4(3
With an income of nearly £27 million
and assets exceeding £206 million, the
A.M.P. sets out on the second century
of its existence as the greatest mutual
life office in the British Commonwealth.
It is also a pillar of strength in the Aus-
tralian economic and social structure.
More than three-quarters of the business
is gathered in Australia, about one-fifth
in New Zealand and the rest in Britain
and elsewhere, and approximately 86 p.c.
of the lot is ordinary and 14 p.c. industrial.
“Save for Security,” the popular anti-
inflation slogan of today, has always been
the appeal behind life assurance, which
normally binds the assured to a period
of regular savings according to definite
plans suited to his needs. Not only does
he thus build for the security of his family
and himself, but should he die before his
savings plan is complete and paid for it
is at once fulfilled by the office con-
cerned. Meanwhile the capital value of
his investment keeps on increasing, by
bonus additions, in both good times and
bad. And his thrift through payment
of premiums helps to ease inflationary
pressures by reducing immediate spending-
power, while the accumulated premiums
are invested in a wide range of Govern-
ment, industrial and other securities, con-
tributing to economic growth and
development and the creation of employ-
ment.
Encouraging features of the co.’s
latest accounts are (1) the record amount
of new business written, (2) growth of
surplus for division among policyholders
—there are no shareholders, (3) mainten-
ance of satisfactory bonus rates, (4) sub-
stantial strengthening of reserves, (5) tight
hold upon controllable outgoings, (6)
indications that the net rate of interest
earned is at, or near, its lowest point, and
(7) changes in investment policy.
The amount of new business written
was £69,754,527, of which £61,546,609
(up £3,297,592) was ordinary and
£8,207,918 (down £248,443) industrial.
After deducting income tax (£507,229)
but including £143,825 surplus on sale of
assets, the year’s total income increased
by £8,417,515, reaching £26,940,510, of
which premiums, etc., contributed
£20,072,349 (up £1,549,314) and interest,
divs., etc., £6,724,336 (up £348,109).
Claims, which were writ-within actuarial
expectation, took £11,659,292 and exes.
£2,651,698, leaving the excess of income
over outgo at £12,629,520. Of this
£126,022 was used to further write down
the book value of premises and other
assets, £250,000 was sent to contingency
reserves (now £4,500,000) and £12,253,498
was added to the assurance funds, raising
them to £197,578,283.
The assurance funds alone substantially
exceeded the actuarial liability under
policies, calculated on a stringent net
premium basis at an all-round 2} p.c.,
thus leaving a large amount for dis-
tribution among policyholders as com-
pound reversionary bonuses. Here are
the figures for the 0.D.:
1948. 1949.
Assurance funds .. £152,579,897 £102,965,713
Actuarial liability .. 148,193,233 158,380,173
Surplus .. .. £4,386,164 £4,585,540
Bonuses policyholders ~ 3,932,051 4,228,302
Reserve interim bonuses 40,000 40,000
Carried forward .. 414,113 317,238
On whole-life policies bonus rates ranged
from 31s. p.c. on contracts one year
in force to 58s. p.c. on those 30 years
old or more according to age at entry.
The surplus in the Industrial section en-
abled bonuses there to be maintained on
an even keel, too.
And the business is handled at a cost
well below that allowed for when the
premium rates were fixed. Last term
exes, took approximately 16 p.c. of gross
premiums in the O.D. and 23.4 p.c. in the
1.D., an improvement of 0.4 p.c, and 0.3
p.c. respectively, despite the persistent rise
in the cost of everything. The improve-
ment is due largely to further mechanisa-
tion of office work.
After deducting taxes, the net effective
rate of interest earned on the mean assur-
ance funds was £3 10s. 9d. (down 9d.)
p.c. The excess of this rate over that
assumed by the actuary in calculating
policy liabilities is one of the chief sources
of divisible profit, and is wide enough to
ensure maintenance of existing bonus
rates. Recent changes in the investment
portfolio suggest that the margin, which
has steadily contracted for nearly a
decade, owing to the cheapening of
money, might soon begin to improve a
trifle.
Over 78 p.c. of the year’s £12,550,250
increase in tptal assets went into mort-
gages (up £5,821,792) and shares and
debentures (up £4,006,576), and most of
the balance into lower-interest-bearing
Government securities (up £1,554,390):
1948. 1949.
£ p.c. £ p.c.
Govt, securitiest 144,106,694 74.3 145,661,084 70.5
Mortgages . . 26,091,407 13.4 81,913,199 15.4
Loans policies .. 10,891,635 5.6 10,930,896 5.3
Shares and
debentures .. 7,933,934 4.1 11,940,509 5.8
Debtors, etc;t .. 2,677,941 1.4 2,818,425 1.4
Cash .. .. 188,491 0.1 703,707 0.3
Premises .. 2,168,543 1.1 2,641,075 1.3
Total assets .. 194,058,645 206,608,895
Liabilities* .. 3,394,141 8,456,015
Net assets .. 190,664,504 203,152,880
t Includes local- and semi-Qovernment securities.
1 Mainly accrued interest and outstanding
premiums.
* Other than liabilities under policies.
A new and commendable departure in
the investment of the co.’s funds is its
plan for development of a large area of
virgin country in the upper s.-e, corner
of South Australia. The idea is to clear
the land of stunted scrub, sow permanent
pastures, bringing carrying-capacity to
about two sheep per acre, and sub-
divide for closer settlement. It is an
ambitious project, the soundness of which
has the backing of a wide range of expert
opinion. It will call for considerable out-
lay and skilful handling, and a special
committee of practical and experienced
men has been appointed to handle it.
First batch of 20-odd holdings is expected
to be ready in about five years’ time, and
a score or more properties are to be
made available annually over the succeed-
ing decade.
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1941.. 37,7*36 6} p.c. = 87,708 28 332,129
1942.. 23,062 4| „ ~28,125 327,066
1943.. 80,117 41 „ ~28,125 )
Written oil goodwill, £lB5O |
142 327,208
1944.. 29,496 4$ p.c. =28,125 1
Written off goodwill, £l2OO )
171 827,879
1945.. 28,183 4i p.c. <= 28,126 68 327,437
1946.. 28,452 4$ „ ~28,125 )
Written off goodwill, £3OO J
27 827,464
1947.. 37,770 6 p.c. = 87,500__ 270 327,734
1948.. 47,295 7i „ „ 46,875 1
Written off goodwill, £291 J
129 327,863
1949. . 64,109 10 p.c. = 62,500 \
Written off goodwill, £l5OO )
109 827,972
Share premiums, etc., £95,000 .. 422,972
1950.. 92,306 10 p.c. = 62,500 I
Written off goodwill, £16,584 \
13,222 436,194
Another good season, the third in sue-
cession, and swollen prices for wool and
livestock have further bumped up the
earnings of wool-brokers and their
clients, as well as increased inflationary
pressure in the economy. For the 10
months to the end of April the Australian
clip turned a record in £231.8 million,
or £74.1 million (47 p.c.) more than for
the corresponding period of the previous
season and about six times the 1938-39
cheque. And the fatness was larded with
a windfall distribution of £24.3-odd mil-
lion of profit from disposal of accumu-
lated wartime wool stocks by J.O.
Last term Younghusband widened the
spread of its net by purchase of four
well-established stock-and-station-agency
businesses in N. S. Wales—W. J. Porter,
Temora ; Gardner McDonald Pty., Gun-
dagai and Tumut; Shortwell Bros.,
Junee ; and J. Kenny and Co., Ardlethan,
The co., which now has 40 branches
scattered throughout Victoria and
southern N. S. Wales, put an extra
4074 bales under the hammer, and gross
earnings increased by £133,099:
Wool Sold, Gross Exes., p.c.
Bales. Profit. Exes., etc. of Gross.
1946 .. 67,139 217,887 186,935 85.8 p.c.
1947 . . 82,111 279,579 238,809 85.5 „
1948 . . 83,048 332,894 279,599 84 ~
1949 . . 120,337 426,496 857,387 83.8 „
1950 .. 124,411 559,595 461,289 82.4 „
After providing for depreciation (£25,112,
up £14,724), taxation (£50,000, up £20,250)
and the staff fund (£6OOO, up £1000), the
net result benefited by £28,197, reaching
£92,306. That was 14.7 p.c. on capital,
as against 10.2, 7.5, 6, 4.5 and 4.1 p.c.
back to 1945. The div. was kept at
10 p.c,, making average distribution over
the last 11 years 6.4 p.c., compared with
7.9 p.c, for the pre-war decade. After
rubbing out the goodwill (£16,584)
involved in the purchases already referred
to, £13,222 of the year’s net earnings was
visibly put on the shelf.
To help finance the growth of business,
250,000 new £1 shares 4 were issued, two
for five, at 275. 6d. each, shortly before
the close of accounts:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital. . £625,000 £625,000 £625,000 £875,000
Creditors . . 389,229 492,123 711,068 1.191,571
Tax reserve.. 19,000 25,500 29,750 50,000
Staff fund .. 3,000 6,000 5,000 10,000
P, Sir " d 266,378 288,244 819,927 424,182
Merchandise.. 18,042 89,860
Advances, etc. 1,082,188 1,008,704 860,339 999,195
Cash, etc. .. 16,230 167,802 467,657 1,048,070
The large cash holding (up £580,413)
and growth in the creditors item (up
£480,503) were due partly to receipt of
the new capital «-and share-premium
moneys and partly to large prepayments
on wool sold just before the books were
ruled off. The addition of £104,255 to
fixed assets mainly reflects extra handling
facilities. Advances, etc., increased by
£138,856 and stocks of merchandise by
£40,410.
On capital as it now stands, 10 p.c.
will call for £4806 less profit than was
claimed last term, and immediate indica-
tions are that net earnings for the current
term should be better than those for the
one on whose heels it treads. Another
good season is in prospect, the statistical
position of the staple is strong, world
consumption of wool continues to run
ahead of production and an early and
catastrophic drop in prices for the staple
is not anticipated. But nature cannot be
expected to smile indefinitely, and the
extent to which the current level of wool
prices will stimulate wool production,
discourage consumption and accelerate
competition from artificial fibres are
questions to which clear-cut answers can-
not be given at this stage. When Euro-
pean demand eventually falls, the price
of wool will follow. But that bridge need
not be crossed while consumption
remains at its present high level. Mean-
while, the question of a Government levy
of from 5 p.c. to 10 p.c. on the value of
wool sold is being discussed. The idea is
to ease the inflationary pressure of
current wool prices, and to provide the
financial basis of a reserve-price scheme
to take the place of J.O,
At 345. 9d. (31s. a year ago) the co. s
scrip returns 5.7 p. c . on a in
basis, or 4.4 p.c. on snv 10 Pc> div-
distribution. Net tanaihll’ P-c.
295. lid. nglble Peking i s
Fresh Food and Ice (Syd.)
Pr r- Dwd “-- £
1940.. 6,410 Nil £ £
Added goodwill, £1291 *’4lo 60,953
i»«.. n.lu m " - i,M ‘
Added goodwill, £1192 46,288
Profit. • • . • 45 ooft
1942.. 4,820 Nil ,096
lq .o G °i°4ool l reduced > £214 . 4,820 49.916
June,'' 2 ’ 035 4 P- c -=U.356 &
1944.. 8,051* 24 , 7 OQfl
.... Added eoodwill, ’ £6OO 953 51,762
1940 ■‘ A 1H 4 ’! 73 , 5 P- c - =14,195 67S 3 1>152
.... Added goodwill, £2307 6 8 ®!,840
1940 ' ’ A^ 5 ’i 44 , P- c - =15,615 '' oq 49,533
10 .. Add ® d goodwill, £20,150 29 49,562
1947. , 15,756 54 p.c. =l5 615 * * ~ * * 39,412
1948.. 15.867 54 „ \d]l 141 29^
Goodwill reduced, £2750” ’ 203 29,805
1949.. 16,166 54 p.c. =15,615 ” rri 32 .555
*Six months. f After deducting goodwill 33 / 106
£44,310). S goodwill (now
For some years now Fresh Food h,
been waiting for the green lioht f h
Building Control to reconstrucf and™?
tend part of its main depot at rw
Harbor, Sydney. When the signal un
there will be an approach to sharehoffi
for extra funds, but no amount has been
mentioned yet, nor has it been said S
form the new capital may take. AU the
present shares are ordinary, and their
Change price (better than for some time
past) is just above par. me
Fresh Food is one of the Milk Board's
two Sydney agent companies which take
milk from the country dairymen, trans-
port and pasteurise it and assist in the
final distribution. This 75-year-old busi
ness handles about one-third of the citv’s
milk, retailing a part itself and passing
the rest on to private vendors. Share-
holders have had rather a lean time
despite a gradual improvement in net
earnings over the last decade. Handling
an essential foodstuff, the co. has its
profit-margins rigidly controlled, and
there is a tendency for distributing mar-
gins to be squeezed between the consum-
ing and producing interests. Of the Is. 6d.
a gallon rise in the retail price of bulk
milk since 1939, all but threepence has
gone to the dairymen:
Milk Margins : Sydney,
1939 Present
Figures Figures
Per Gal. Per Gal.
Paid by board to dairymen.. Is. Od. 2s. 3d.
Paid by agents to board .. Is. 1.6 d. 2s. 6fd.
Paid by vendors to agents .. Is. sjd. 2s. 9Jd.
Maximum retail price (bulk).. 2s. 4d. 3s. lOd.
The heavier distributing costs brought
about by wage-lifts and shorter working
hours have been offset in part by the
introduction of blocked delivery and
partly by the phenomenal growth in turn-
over —Sydney is now consuming over 50
million gallons of milk a day, or twice
as much as in 1939.
Besides milk, .Fresh Food deals in ice,
ice-cream, bread and other foods. Total
turnover last year was a record
£2,440,000, or 21 p.c. higher than in 1948.
Gross profit showed an improvement of
£73,336, but increases in the wages-bill
(which has jumped 50 p.c. in three years)
and other expenses absorbed practically
all the gain:
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Gross profits.. £541,252 £577,419 £002,251 £676,587
/,6 Wages .. 252,470 288,935 338,893 382,498
General exes. 210,338 217,562 202,914 235,068
11 etc. taXM> 62,800 55,166 44,577 41,861
Net profit .. 15,644 15,756 15,867 16,
The net figure was 5.7 p.c. on espial
(compared with 5.6 p.c. m the three
previous terms), and the d.v.dend was
held at 5i p.c.. for, the fourth yearm
succession. In the nme y eai ; s u a( j e
the average distribution has beemai shade
over 3 p.c., compared with an averag
4 4 pi in the previous decade and 6.7
p.c. during the 'twenties. ctcoci
The balance-sheet showed a
rise in stocks and a net outlay of IMV


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian institution. Established 1862.
Head Offices GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS;
B. R. KNOX (Chairman), P. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS.
G. P. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
SUNSET HOUSE
by Lady Winifred Fortescue
A companion volume to “Perfume from Provence.”
A delightful autobiographical study of the acquisition, rebuilding and
occupation of a house in Provence, France.
PRICE 12/6 (Post Free 12/10*).
Obtainable NOW from all good Booksellers or from
LOTHIAN PUBLISHING COMPANY PTY., LTD..
1 Fleming Place, Melbourne.
Authors are asked to mark their name and address clearly on all MSS, submitted.
Tin Mining Proposition
Dredging mining proposition in Thailand
(Siam) for Sale. Twenty-two million
cubic yards. Bored and checkbored by
well-known mining engineers. For further
particulars apply to No. 330 Advt. Dept.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.
Box 2521 G.P.O. SYDNEY
/WK'ti,
fd
■»=M
m
From
Scotland
—every
precious
drop
' I
m
m
n
BUCHANAN’S
BLACK&WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distifled and blended in Scotland
By Appointment
to H.M. Kin* George VI
m
Scotch Whisky Distillers.
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN 'AND CO. LTD.. GLASGOW. SCOTLAND
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
A Review of Economic, Market and Financial Conditions,
Company Accounts and Mining Activities.
Published by “The Bulletin.”
2/- per single copy—22/6 a year post free.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l,
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HENRY RICHMOND JONES also
known as HENRY RICHARD JONES late
of Neutral Bay.—TAKE NOTICE that
CLARICE EILEEN JONES has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1110 of 1950 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 14th day of August 1950 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from GEOFFREY SEE & CO.,
Solicitors, 18 Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction.
TO CLARENCE RONALD THOMAS GUY
formerly of 26 Belgrave Street Haw-
thorne Melbourne in the State of Vic-
toria.—TAKE NOTICE that IVY ENID
GUY has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1088 of 1949 under Victorian Law on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance before the 30th day of August
1950 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. BRAYE
CRAGG COHEN & CHAPMAN, Solicitors,
Bolton Street, Newcastle, or their Agents,
Messrs. BRAYE & MALCOLMSON, Soli-
citors, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES ALAN SYPHERS late of
Penrith.—TAKE NOTICE that MAR-
JORIE BERYL SYPHERS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 927 of 1956 on
the grounds of your habitual drunkenness
and non-support and your habitual drun-
kenness and cruelty for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 21st August 1950 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 164
Phillip Street, Sydney.—J, DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN THOMAS WINDLE JACK
(known as Windle) late of Weston. —
TAKE NOTICE that HILDA MAY
WINDLE JACK (known as HILDA MAY
WINDLE) has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1468 of 1950 on the grounds of your
desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 21st August
1950 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 164 Phillip Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
AN OUTSTANDINGLY
VALUABLE
DISTINCTIVE AND POTENTIAL
PERTH
CITY PROPERTY
In one of Perth’s most busy thoroughfares
(between Hay St. and St. George’s Ter.)
UNIQUE LAND MEASUREMENT.
Frontage 1204 ft. Approx. Depth 198 ft.
AREA
OVER HALF AN ACRE.
This
EXCEPTIONAL PROPERTY
offering
A VERY RARE OPPORTUNITY
is situated and known as
“DEVONSHIRE FLATS’’
Nos. 1,3, 5, 7 and 9
MILLIGAN STREET
(Between Hay Street and St. George’s
Terrace) PERTH,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
TO BE OFFERED AT PUBLIC
AUCTION
TUESDAY, 27th JUNE,
1950, at 3 p.m.
IN THE ROOMS, Perpetual Trustee
Buildings (Second Floor), 89
ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH.
H. J. CARMICHAEL
* Auctioneer
(Phone B 8214)
has been instructed by the
VENDOR’S AGENTS
to offer at
PUBLIC AUCTION
as above
LAND: (Firstly) Portion of Perth Town
Lots H 8 and H 9 and being Lots 2 and
3 the subject of Plan 947. (Secondly)
Portion of Perth Town Lots H 8 and H 9
as to the portion coloured blue only to-
gether with a right of Carriage way over
portion coloured brown on diagram 2308
having a total frontage to Milligan-street
of 182.8 links by depth of 300 links and
being the land the subject of Certificate
of Title Volume 857 Folio 187.
IMPROVEMENTS: Two Storey Brick
(mostly) building comprises 15 SELF
CONTAINED FLATS (Accommodation
varies from Two Rooms, Kitchen. Bath-
room and Balcony to Five Rooms, Kitchen,
Bathroom and Balconv), plus “APART-
MENTS RESIDENTIAL” known as
“Devonshire House.” Latter comprises
Tiled Entrance Hall, Inner Hall, Passages,
Staircase, Eleven Rooms, Bathrooms,
Storeroom, Kitchen, Toilets, Balcony and
Verandah. HOT WATER SERVICE to
this section and all Flats. And Nine
Garages.
PARTICULARLY NOTE
The Portion of Improvements described
as “APARTMENTS RESIDENTIAL” are
let on Lease expiring 30th June, 1951,
and balance of Improvements are let on
either monthly or weekly Tenancies, and
the property will be offered and sold
subject to such Lease and Tenancies.
INSPECTION BY
APPOINTMENT
Further details from
VENDOR’S AGENTS
McLean Carmichael Kempe
Pty. Limited,
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE BUILDINGS,
89 ST. GEORGE S TERRACE,
PERTH,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
(Phone B 2629).
Vendor’s Solicitors,
JOSEPH, MUIR AND
WILLIAMS,
13-16 Victoria House,
98 ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Cyliodv
TO
fds
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Bead,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
on fixed assets, financed by out-
side credits:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital £283,907 £283,907 £283,907
Debentures. . 150,000 150,000 150,000
Bank over-
draft . . 22,306 75,256 70,743
Creditors .. 146,339 132,298 160,575
Freeholds .. 245,294 271,788 271,675
Plant,
vehicles .. 183,930 191,990 204,182
Stocks . . 49,028 65,614 81,497
Shares in sub-
sidiary . . 13,156 13,156 13,156
Debtors . . 133,052 136,792 135,803
Cash .. 16,162 442 435
As capital stands now each £1
share has tangible asset backing
of 225. 6d. on book-values; that
does not include the goodwill
value of the co.’s retail registra-
tions. At last week’s ’Change
price of 20s. 6d. the yield would
be 5.36 p.c. on the latest divi-
dend.
New B.H. Consolidated, Ltd.
Dec., Profit. Dividends.t Reserves.
£* £* £*
1946.. 81,057 Nil 682,478
1947. .189,131 20 p.c. = 93,112 778,498
Share premiums, £711.632.. 1,490,130
1948. .322,392 20 p.c. = 93,112 1,719,410
Share premiums, £603,524.. 2,322,934
Net unexp. add’n, £16,289. . 2,339,223
1949. .404,014 30 p.c. =184,898 2,558,339
t Rate of div. is that declared, but
amount is shown after deducting English
tax of 9s. in £. * Sterling.
It was a bigger throughput of
ore and high average level of
metal prices that put the spring
of £81,622 in last term’s net
earnings. Average London prices
for lead, zinc and silver for the
last two years were as follows:
1948. ■ 1949.
Lead .. .. £97 0 0 £lO4 12 1
Zinc .. .. 80 0 0 87 6 5
Silver .. 8 9.02 4 1.24
There was considerable fluctua-
tion in the figures for lead and
zinc last year, but the devalua-
tion of sterling in September off-
set the effects of the drift in the
New York market. In Australia
the price for lead was lifted
from £A22 to £A3S a ton, and
for zinc from £A22 to £A4O a
ton from the beginning of 1949.
The co. mined .175,232 tons
(up 71,654 tons) ore from its own
leases and bought 48,883 tons
from Zinc Corp., making total
feed for the mill 244,033 tons (up
69,931 tons). Most of the
co.’s own ore came from the
narrow zinc lode in the upper
levels, and the average grade
(9.2 p.c. lead, 2.10 z. silver and
12.4 p.c. zinc) was a little lower.
All the ore was put through
Zinc Corp’s mill for the follow-
ing results;
r~ —Metal Content >
Con’trates, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. Tons. Oz. . p.c.
Lead—
-1948.. 21,245 15,669 331,115
1949.. 27,132 19,869 417,762
Zinc—
-1948.. 33,096 _ 5^.3
1949.. 48,439 _ 52.5
About a quarter of the lead (the
concentrates are smelted at Port
Pirie) and approximately 30 p.c.
of the zinc concentrates are sold
locally, and most of the balance
in Britain.
Sale of mine products turned
in £2,117,341 (up £531,149) and
sundry income totalled £22,340
(up £9199). Including £99,337
(down £30,969) spent on de-
velopment, £75,000 (up £7000)
allowed for depreciation and
£309,000 (up £72,000) for taxa-
tion, exes, totalled £1,735,667 (up
£458,726). The £404,414 of
profit was 36 p.c. on the
£1,120,592 of capital as against
38 p.c. for the previous term.
The nominal rate of div. was
lifted from 20 p.c. to 30 p.c.,
worth 13.7 p.c. and 20.6 p.c,
respectively in Australian cur-
rency after allowing for Eng-
lish income tax of 9s. in the £
and exchange at the current rate.
The balance of the capital
(£121,571) and premiums
(£603,524) on the new shares
issued shortly before the close
of accounts in 1948 came in
early in the term;
1948. 1949.
Cash, Govt, bonds £1,683,423 £2,298,031
Debtors .. .. 124,210 132,726
Stocks .. .. 30,435 55,760
£1,838,065 £2,486,517
Less liabilities .. 584,507 817,375
Net current assets £1,253,561 £1,669,142
Machinery, etc.
(less depreciation) 249,979 453,040
Mine expenditure
account .. . . 1,214,891 1,556,749
Paid capital .. 999,021 1,120,592
Reserves .. .. 1,719,410 2,558,339
All amounts shown are in sterling.
The year’s expenditure on mine
account (mainly shaftsinking)
was £341,858, and on equipment
£213,061 net. The improvement
in the more or less liquid sur-
plus was £415,581. Present out-
standing capital commitments
total £1,424,000, which the co.
will have no difficulty in meet-
ing from its existing resources.
tfie main haulage shaft, which
is to service the big lead lode at
the bottom levels, was sunk a
further 254 ft. to a depth of
3249 ft. (86ft. below No. 22
level), the head-frame was
erected and haulage down to
No. 15 level has begun. Full-
sized excavation of the near-by
service shaft has been completed
to 1497 ft. (21ft. below No. 11
level). It will, however, be some
time before the co. ceases to
hoist its ore through Zinc
Corp.’s main shaft, which now
services the northern end of the
co.’s mines.
Most of the development work
has been on and around No. 19
level. Which is the largest and
richest part of the mine. Here
drilling and crosscutting have
confirmed continuation of Zinc
Corp.’s high-grade lead lode into
the co.’s leases. Drilling at be-
tween 1500 ft. and 3000 ft. south
of the northern boundary has
been inconclusive in delineating
the southward continuation of
the ore structures at these
points; but a lot more work
needs to be done before any
definite opinion can be formed
as to what happens to the ore
bodies as they pass south.
During the current term the
co. hopes to extract a slightly
bigger tonnage of its own ore.
Financial results will depend
upon the tonnage that can be
bought from Zinc Corp., and
upon the course of metal prices
and costs. For the first four
months of 1950 the London
averages for lead and zinc were
£S93 7s. Bd. and £SBB 9s. 6d.
respectively.
Since the beginning of 1950
the co.’s f.-p. ss. shares have
fluctuated between 30s. and
335. 6d. in the market. At the
higher figure the immediate re-
turn is a shade over 3 p.c. on
the basis of last term’s distribu-
tion.


A PRIZE DOG
Dalmatian
“KILMORY JULIE”
This outstanding Dalmatian
bitch was R.A.S.K.C, champion
at 14 months—gained 3 first
prizes and 2 specials at 1949
R.A.S. Winner of 11 challenge
and 6 best of breed certificates.
N77BD-1L49
r*4
-SVtJ
’ H
ii
J# 1
m
m
m
&
W
CHAMPION
FINE CUT TOBACCO
Also BRIGHT and DARK Flake Cuf for the Pipe,
STOPvou'Rupture
Worries/
Mark ®. ; I ««»*■' n
• -Attr
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with coinfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for Im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and H Days’ Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
The importance of
Keeping your Will
up-to-date
Failure to keep youi
Will up to date may result in
muth anxiety, endless trouble
and legal costs for those whose
welfare you have at heart.
Changes in family conditions,
deaths births marriages,
changes in assets;
economic conditions necessitate
alterations to a Will so that it
expresses the real intentions of
the Testator.
Make a point of looking oyer
your Will to-day; when doing
so it will be wise to consider
carefully your choice of Execu-
tor Trustee.
-E
i'll
ill
**s
idt nfplj
=nSi sS?3|s<
ferjj ft > ~h
&
|
;J3J
2Lc
Consider the advantages of the services rendered in
this capacity by Perpetual Trustee Company Limited.
The Company is socially constituted to undertake
duties. Its service is perpetual. It is not su J
the disadvantages of illness or old age. coital
absent but always available for consultation,
and reserves, amounting to over £500,000, P ro J •j D f
ible security for its integrity. Its uncalled p
£BOO,OOO is an additional safeguard.
’Phone 80377 or write for a copy o t U * e J ,o
“Ytrur Executor and Trustee”—that describes die Lom
party’s service and charges.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITS#
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE TRUST AND AGENCY FUND
AGENT UNDER POWER OF UNDER ADMINISTRAT
ATTORNEY FOR ABSBN- • rKED £68,000,000.
TEES AND OTHERS, AD* EXCEED *
MXNISTRATOR, Etc.
Directors: Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR. M-L-C-.^rman.
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J- ■
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN,
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A G, ARMYTAGE, Manager,
HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
tamworth 0K
33-39
OFFICES AT
WAGGA WAGGA.
and
Business. Rollery. Etc.
B.H.P.
The increasing of Australian
Iron and Steel’s authorised
capital from £8,500,000 to
£20,000,000 last week was fol-
lowed by a rise of Is. 9d. in the
shares of the controlling
co.
A.I. and S. is erecting a hot-
strip mill, a cold-strip mill and
a tinplate plant at Port Kembla,
and it was for this purpose that
B.H.P. made an issue of
4,628,300 shares at a premium
of 10s. each last year. Only
about £2,300,000 of this money
has so far been passed on to
Australian Iron and Steel in the
form of capital —actually B.H.P.
has not yet fully called up
its new issue. Though the
£6,942,500 of new money to be
raised by B.H.P. at the time was
considered adequate for the job
planned, since then the cost of
dollar imports has risen by 40
p.c. A large part of the A.I.
and S. tinplate plant was to come
from the U.S.A.
Market interest in B.H.P.
scrip last week may not have
been solely the result of the
A.I. and S. move, which, so far,
is purely nominal. B.H.P. ac-
counts closed on May 31, and a
preliminary profits statement
should be available soon. The
parent co. in 1948-49 turned out
about 3,000,000 tons of basic
iron and steel products. Output
should be higher for 1949-50.
In December the co. was
allowed a price-increase of £2
a ton, which should help con-
siderably in the battle with costs.
Ira L. and A. C. Berk
The public issue of 520,000 ss.
shares ki Ira L. and A. C. Berk
(Holdings), Ltd., was immedi-
ately filled when offered on
Tuesday of last week. Another
300,000 ss. ords. have been
taken by the vendors and family,
who are being paid £75,000 for
all the ordinary capital in Ira L.
and A. C. Berk Pty., Ltd.
Though this operating co. has
an ord. capital of only £4, net
tangible assets being acquired,
allowing for repayment of
£35,405 of pref. capital, are
valued at £79,766, with no pay-
ment for goodwill.
The operating co. holds the
Packard car franchise for N. S.
Wales, Queensland and Tas-
mania, the Hudson franchise for
N.S.W., Renault for N.S.W. and
Queensland, Healey for Aus-
tralia, and International trucks,
on a joint franchise, for Sydney
and suburbs.
Net profits of the operating
co., adjusted on a public-co.
basis and allowing for all taxes
except undistributed-profits tax,
were equal to 1.4 p.c. on pro-
posed capital for the year to June
30, 1945, 1 p.c. for 1946, 7 p.c.
1947, 13.1 p.c. 1948, 21.4 p.c.
1949 and 19.3 p.c. for the seven
months to January 31, 1950.
The 1945 and 1946 profits
were affected by the control
of sales of vehicles to private
users. At present, though im-
ports of Packards and Hudsons
are greatly restricted, the co.
appears to be doing well out of
its International and Renault
agencies. If the dollar situa-
tion improves, revenue from
Packards and Hudsons should
pick up again.
Of the £205,000 of new capi-
tal being raised, £75,000 goes to
the vendors, and the other
£130,000 will be used to in-
crease working capital, to
finance extensions to buildings,
and to acquire certain premises
occupied^but not yet owned by
the operating co.
* Rubtex Elastics
• Chief item in the latest Rubtex
progress report is the announce-
ment that the board has issued
a writ for £lOO,OOO against Geza
and Jeno Mandel, two of the
guiding spirits in this company’s
flotation. That makes two law
cases pending over Rubtex, the
other being a libel action.
The board feels, it inexpedient
yet to broadcast details of its
case against the Mandels. This
action, brought on the com-
pany’s behalf, evidently relates
to questions of past internal
management.
A matter which is no concern
of the Rubtex board, but which
vitally affects some shareholders,
is the question asked here last
January: How did the Mandels,
and other original members of
the Rubtex board, if they under-
stood the position, feel justified
in asking strangers to pay a 100
p.c. premium for the shares in
1948?
The present board is having a
tough job to rehabilitate things,
and warns that the accounts for
the year ending next June 30
“will again show a substantial
loss.” (At the last balance
Rubtex, with its £300,000 capi-
tal, had a deficit of £118,788,
subject to £19,983 of intangible
assets.) All the adverse publicity
has made it hard to get labor,
and a British production expert
who was being brought out
cancelled his trip; there have
been power breakdowns and de-
lays in getting raw materials and
new machinery. Directors point
out that they are virtually faced
with the problem of starting a
new business. They think the
outlook is better than six months
ago, and ask for shareholders’
patience. The sharemarket still
prices the ss. shares at about
3_s. Id. ,
Thirlwell and McKenzie (Port
Kembla) rights were available up
to the end of last week. During
the period in which the 150,000
new shares were on offer the
rights sold between ss. and 6s.
The market for the old ords.
closed last 26s. 9d. The
new scrip, if fully paid up on
application, will rank for divi-
dend from July 1. The co.
should participate in the general
expansion which the B.H.P.
group is promoting in the Wol-
longong-Kembla area.
* * * *
The Macßobertson float will
be watched with interest. Present
capital of the co. is £1,700,750,
all in 10s. ords., and a large par-
cel of these, as well as a new
pref. issue, is to be offered to
the public through Melbourne
brokers and the Anglo-Australian
Corporation Pty. Macßobert-
son (Australia), Ltd., has fac-
tories in Melbourne and Sydney,
and distributing subsidiaries in
. each State. It has a very large
turnover in sweets, cocoa, choco-
late, etc.
* * # •
Masonite Corporation has had
a busy year, though it started
off with floods and strike diffi-
culties. Price-control still re-
stricts profit-earning, but it is a
vigorous and expanding enter-
prise, with its product in high
regard in the building trade. At
595. the ord. shares return £4
ss. per cent, on a 12£ p.c. div.
basis.
* * * *
Bradford Cotton ords. have
made a justifiable recovery to
445. 9d. Return at that figure is
£4 9s. per cent, on a 10 p.c, div.
basis. The co. is a very soundly
conducted enterprise.
The Australian cotton-textile
industry so far this financial
year has had a fairly active
record, especially with regard to
towelling and towels. Canvas
and duck output is averaging
much less than in the preceding
two years, but drills, jeans, etc.,
are up, and so are cotton tweeds
and miscellaneous piecegoods.
* * * *
Signs of returning strengthen
Maoriland’s gold industry, nearly
down and out a year ago, are
seen in the change that has come
over the Martha Gold Mining
Co. (Waihi), Ltd., owner of the
famous 70-year-old mine at
Waihi, one of the world’s richest
producers. Devaluation against
the dollar and the rise in M.L.’s
gold price to £l2 4s. 6d. an
ounce, against £8 Bs. 6d. previ-
ously, have brought a field of
low-grade ore within economic
range, and the co. now hopes to
earn divs. for a few more years.
A year-end lift in profit to
£14,727 (to Dec. 31) restored
divs. to 10 p.c., last paid two
years ago. Bedrock earnings
were a mere £7680 in 1945, when
divs. fell to one-third the present
rate, and for the next three years
the co. held on by a shoestring.
Assets which should come in
handy on winding-up include
Government securities (£120,000)
and enough cash to more than
oover paid capital of £123,977.
With this much in the till, and
moderate divs ahead, the half-
crown shares looked good buying
around 4s. in May, when the
latest result was broadcast.
* * * *
Albert G. Sims ss. shares got
a move on last week, touching
75., to yield 5.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. In the scrap-metal
and metal-recovery business, the
Sims concern is well handled,
and the face value of the ords. is
more than covered by net tan-
gibles on book values.
* =i= * *
For those people who like
pref. shares, the 5 p.c. seconds
in Dangar, Gedye and Malloch
have strong backing and „ j
div.-coverage. Thev good
able last week at 21 s aVail *
Jjf 15s - «■
the usual yield from mill- is
class 5 p.c. p r ef s ? edlu m-
Dangar, Gedye^crip’ha^Lt ll6
than-usual backing. P b tter '
* * '*
June (“or Julv’T k *
in which Metropolitan c e ™!S
chairman suggested that „S
tion might commence. There t
a lot of watching and waiting
New Zealand’s only rival ,
the Woolworth combine M c
Kenzies Department StoVet
Ltd has been finding the go inc
harder for the past year or "*
and has dropped the bonus „f
2t p.c., which was added to £
10 p.c. div. in 1948 and 1940
Profit of £61,571 for the latest
term (to March 31) was the
lowest since ’46, and was well
™iV f?' war of
£78,157 reached a couple of
years ago. As the div. is covered
by a round £50,000 it looks safe
enough, but the shares lost some
°i i h fl r bu °y anc y after hitting a
mid-May peak of £3 5s Re-
serves experienced some belt-
tightening in the war years and
have drifted from £173,737 in
’4l to £134,685 today. The
years of greatest prosperity were
in the late ’thirties after the con-
cern was reorganised on the
present double-deck basis, with
J. R. McKenzie, Ltd., and sub-
sidiaries as the operating com-
panies and the holding company
directing moves from the top.
Like most other Maoriland cos',
this group has had to battle for
stocks and hasn’t been able to
boost turnover enough to absorb
rising costs. Latest stock sur-
vey showed a total of £544,026,
about 11 p.c. up, by leaning a
heavier elbow on the bank, and
property purchases brought a
50 p.c. jump in mortgages
(£124,978). Expansion in the
chain is costly and is likely to
keep balance-sheet figures danc-
ing until completed.


insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Tire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
DESIGN No. 6
New Beautiful Designs
FOR PROMPT DELIVERY
For your new Home, choose one pf the new
Terra-Cotta Surrounds. They are available to
suit open fireplaces, gas fires or Wonderheat
and Kosi stoves, in a delightful mottled cream-
buff ceramic glaze that is everlasting and will
not stain or discolour, and is easy to clean.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, 'Phone
MX 2411 or write Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney for
illustrated Booklet of designs.
0
rl REPLACE SURROUNDS
OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
You’ll be glad
to bank at the “Wales”
MEW
nr
n
m
Ai
'Zr/,
I
tzk
Whatever your previous experience in financial
matters, you’ll be glad to bank at the Bank of New
South Wales. The Manager and staff of every branch
are friendly and ready to help customers make full
use of the Bank’s many services. It will be a pleasure
to them to look after your interests, whether large
or small.
For the best in banking service, consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
A5012D
dsfsd
Ancestors of
an
Industry
John Dalton, an English Quaker, was the first to
propound the theory that the atom was the smallest par-
ticle of mat.ter imaginable—a theory that was not assailed
until more than a century later. Even in Dalton’s day, f the
idea that matter was composed of small indivisible particles
was not new. A similar theory had been put forward by
the Greek philosopher Democritus two thousand years earlier.
Sir Isaac Newton had restated it as the “corpuscular theory"
a hundred years before Dalton. Where Dalton excelled them
was in formulating these theories in a way that explained known
chemical processes, and enabled deductions to be made which
could be submitted to the test of practical experiment. In
short, he translated them from philosophical abstractions into
a method for accurately forecasting and controlling chemical
reactions and manufacturing processes.
Dalton, the son of a weaver, was born in 1766. He went
to work at the age of 12, but studied in his spare time to
such effect that in 1793 the Manchester Academy appointed
him tutor in mathematics and natural science. Six years later
he set himself up as a private teacher, devoting his leisure to
research and the fashioning of his Atomic Theory, which
was first published in 1808 in his book “A New System of
Chemical Philosophy.” Dalton’s theory, unaltered in its
essentials, is still used to explain the laws of
chemical combination. Dalton’s work was the
basis of the knowledge which enabled British
scientists to contribute so much to the startling
developments of atomic disintegration.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
-IL/55/14*
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
It is the eagerness of their
Government to shower blessings
upon them that causes Britons
to look back upon May with
astonishment. They are still
blinking and rubbing their eyes
and wondering if it all has really
happened. With housing the
Minister of Health has allowed
more licenses for private build-
ing, while his colleague at the
Ministry of Works, a business-
man of decided views, is con-
cerning himself with supplies.
The Minister of Food has de-
clared that the buying of tea
may yet be allowed to revert to
private enterprise, has abolished
the eight-year-old system of
“points” rationing, and, it is
said, has sacked the head of the
Kenya peanuts scheme. On the
eve of the Whitsun holiday
petrol-rationing was lifted ; with
“points” this will release 3200
civil servants and save the tax-
payer about £1,300,000 a year.
While the enjoyment of this
prolific burst of amenities is full
it has not prevented some search-
ing questions. With housing and
food, why so sudden and so
late? With petrol, why the
grandmotherly rebuke to Can-
berra? And why was Mr.
Churchill so severely castigated
for his “irresponsibility” in rais-
ing the question during the elec-
tion campaign?
The citizen is left with two
chastening reflections; As a
taxpayer he knows that the duty
on petrol has recently been
doubled, thus providing extra
revenue during the summer
months; and, as an elector, he
now realises that these controls
could have been lifted months
ago. Ever conscious of being
courted, this latter fact is hardly
likely to be overlooked when
the time comes.
Dorking and the Deadlock
Comment on the Labor
leaders’ policy talks at the
Webb’s old Country house near
Dorking seems to amount to
little more than intelligent gues-
sing. The attendance of some
50 delegates, representing the
Cabinet, the executive commit-
tee and the three wings of the
party (the Trades Union Con-
gress, the “Co-operative” move-
ment and the constituencies) was
widely publicised, but yielded
nothing to the outside world be-
yond a wordy yet barren state-
ment. It was a private meet-
ing, hung about with an iron and
restrictive secrecy that touched
upon the absurd and merely
brought into relief the serious-
ness with which Mr. Morgan
Phillips, secretary of the party,
and his associates seem to take
themselves.
Was it an opportunity to
compose the differences between
the moderates, led by Mr. Morri-
son, who believe that the future
of the Labor “movement” de-
pends upon a 'broader outlook,
and the out-and-outers, led by
Mr. Aneurin Bevan, who assert
that Socialism is precariously
balanced only because the nation
hasn’t had strong enough doses
of its medicine? Should there
be further nationalisation or
should a halt be called? Was
the purpose of the conference
to prepare a tentative election
programme? To work out a
new wages-and-profits policy or
to seek means of arresting the
rising cost of living? These
questions are being asked but
not answered.
They may not be very im-
portant. What is important is
the difference between this
meeting and the one held last
year at Shanklin, which was
confined to members of the
Cabinet and a few advisers. The
Dorking affair included repre-
sentatives of all the main in-
terests, natural and vested, that
are the traditional props of the
party. And what more likely
than that they should seek out
ways and means to extricate the
Labor party from its dead-end?
For dead-end it is, incontrovert-
ible
The Roads Barred
The Labor party may be com-
pared to a coach which, in 1945,
found itself with ample petrol
and undisputed possession of the
roads. This circumstance
dazzled the drivers, who had
never before had such a clear
run. Their joyrides took them
hugger-mugger over the entire
road system. Since the general
election of last February the
petrol (funds from trade-union
levies and the like) is still avail-
able, but about one-half of the
roads (constituencies) are reso-
lutely barred against reckless
driving. The urgent problem be-
fore them is how to break down
these barriers.
So the drivers, no longer in
undisputed control, have had to
call in, or yield to the pressure
of, the friends and sponsors who
keep them supplied with 'petrol
and coaches and who help them
to find the routes. If these
friends can win over sufficient
numbers of the people who bar
the driver’s access, then the
coach can keep running. Other-
wise it can’t.
Divorced Children
Warren Chetham-Strode’s new
play, “Background” (West-
minster Theatre) is an earnest
delineation of the impact of
divorce upon the mental stability
of three children. Their father
(Andre Morell) is an exacting
and immoderately ambitious
barrister who bickers intermin-
ably with his slothful and intel-
lectually inferior wife (Valerie
White). When incompatibility
comes to a stormy head they
both agree upon divorce as the
only release from untenable
stress. He will find solace in
his briefs and she in ultimate
marriage with her husband’s
school-friend and well-loved
“uncle” to their children.
It is when the parents assemble
their children to explain what
the outcome is when “mummy
and daddy don’t get on together”
that the play soars to dramatic
heights. The eldest, a cold, self-
seeking girl, loves horses, and
sees a new life before her on
“uncle’s” farm. But the other
two sit in silent agony. To
them divorce is not just some-
thing that grown-ups do: it is
already familiar in the misshapen
persons of schoolfellows who
are “different.” The youngest, a
boy of 13, doesn’t want to be
“different,” and his fresh en-
thusiasm immediately gives place
to introspective savagery.
Henceforward hi s rebellion
dominates the play. He is sul-
len and moody at home and
plays truant from school before
returning to attack, murderously,
his “uncle.” The mother’s re-
pressed humanity urges her to
seek reconciliation with her
husband, who agrees, but with
no promise of a lasting change
of heart.
The author presents the facts
and makes no attempt to point
an obvious moral. His expo-
sures, nevertheless, tacitly invite
a solution which he fails to pro-
vide, for the unready com-
promise he offers only presages
wider conflict. Dramatically,
the play undeservedly suffers an
anti-climax after the most
powerful first act seen in Lon-
don for years. Lilly Kann gives
a touching felicity to the
Austrian housekeeper-nanny, and
Colin Douglas does his best to
make the platonic uncle cred-
ible. John Charlesworth, as the
suffering child, gives a perform-
ance of sensitivity and change
of mood that is the talk of the
town. For this, and for the un-
affected production, Norman
Marshall’s contribution is by no
means the least.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
Twenty-three debutantes made their
coming-out bow to the Governor, Sir
Dallas Brooks, and Lady Brooks, at
Prince Henry’s Hospital annual ball at
St. Kilda Town Hall. The debutantes
wore identical frocks cut on mid-Victorian
lines and fashioned of white moire faille
inlet with lace. The bodices were cut
off-the-shoulder and there was a cascade
on either side of the skirt. Half-circles
of white feathers were worn in their hair
and they carried red carnations in gold
holders. At the back of the official table
a coat-of-arms and flags were set and on
stage two coats-of-arms and flags formed
the decoration. Mr. W. K. Burnside,
president of the hospital, and Mrs, Burn-
side received the vice-regal party. Lady
Brooks wore a gown of fine black lace
which had the low, rounded neckline out-
lined with a frill of lace. Jeanette Brooks
was in burgundy-toned satin, with three
flat folds on the bodice and a bouffant
skirt. Mrs. Burnside’s gown was of gold
lame, with wide shoulder-straps on the
bodice and graceful drapes at each side
of the slightly-trained skirt. Under a
cape stole of blue mink Mrs. A. G.
Warner wore a gown of pervenche-blue
crepe with a filmy blue lace top. Madame
Wang’s national costume of deep wine-
toned satin was embroidered at the back
and front in sprays cf multi-colored
flowers. Matron of Prince Henry’s, Miss
A. Morgan, wore a royal-blue crepe gown.
Mrs. W. Pultney Mein’s choice was dove-
grey crepe made with a swirling skirt and
worn under a blue-fox cape. Mrs.
Murray Tallent wore silver-grey lace
over mauve taffeta. Mrs. W. J. Jung-
wirth’s silver lame top was worn with a
pink-and-silvdr-tissue skirt.
Mrs. David Raeburn-Brown’s taffetas
were of black cyclamen with gold stripes.
A white tulle bustle bow embellished
Leone Harvey-Jones’s pale-blue tulle
frock. Mrs. Alan Bernaldo’s gown was
of white Spanish lace ; her small beanie-
cap was of similar lace and sequins.
Vera Pritchard’s pastel-green floral gown
featured the uneven hemline. Bands of
gold and jewelled embroidery finished the
long sleeves of Mrs. W. H. Horsfall’s
black gown. Mrs. Frank Watts was in
elephant’s-breath chiffon. Mrs. L.
Greville’s gown was of nut-brown gold
and green-striped taffeta. Mrs. S. Hous-
ton, who was in charge of decorations for
the ball, achieved contrast for her ice-
blue moire gown with cyclamen gloves.
Nineteen years ago some American
women formed themselves into an
auxiliary to work for the Children’s Hos-
pital. Many of the original group have
returned to America, but there have
always been newcomers not only willing,
but anxious, to join the ranks. The
birthday of the auxiliary was cele-
brated with a buffet-luncheon at the
home of Mrs. S. J. Fletcher, wife of the
U.S. Consul-General. Guest of honor,
Mrs. Pete Jarman, wife of the U.S.
Ambassador, came from Canberra for the
party wearing a slimly-cut black frock
trimmed with small panels of black
fringe. Mrs. Fletcher was in ink-blue silk
romaine. The ink-blue crepe frock worn
by Mrs. W. Killough, president of the
auxiliary, had a tiered skirt faced with
matching satin. Mrs. A. E. Hotchkiss’s
red wool coat had a collar and revers of
ocelot; her small felt hat was in match-
ing tones. A winter white felt hat
trimmed with gold and pearl beads went
with Mrs. Frank Gillespie’s black suit.
Mrs. Adrian Perry combined a beige frock
and a rust-red felt hat. A red velvet
cloche offset Mrs. Tom Blarney’s navy
frock. Mrs. Jules Bernard teamed a black
tailored skirt and white lace-ruffled
blouse. Mrs. Richard Norton’s ensemble
was black. Mrs. Gerald Bacon added a
matching hat to her beige suit.
Mesdames H. Allen and H. Cavenaugh,
organisers of the July 4 Ball for the
Children’s Hospital, have decided on the
title “Springtime in Washington,” and
St. Kilda Town Hall will be transformed
temporarily into the vernal season with
hand-made pink-and-white blossom.
Various well-known spots in Washington
will be featured in the decorative scheme
The Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, and
the U.S. Ambassador, Mr. Pete Jarman,
have both extended their patronage to the
ball although, owing to prior engage-
ments, they will be unable to be present.
Pickets will cost two guineas each and the
limit is 800. Mrs. G. W. McKay
(UY5769) is ticket secretary. Mrs. Gerald
Bacon has charge of the decorations,
Mrs. E. C. Daum catering, Mrs. Frank
Callahan entertainment and Mrs. Charles
Norton publicity.
The Hawthorn Club, composed entirely
of the sterner sex, has every right to be
proud of its record, for over the past few
years it has sent to England 120 cases
of food and one ton of soap for distri-
bution among the needy. Evidence of
the joy the Hawthorn Club has aroused
in many British families is to be found in
the hundreds of letters of appreciation
the secretary has received. Recently the
president, committee and members enter-
tained their womenfolk at a dance at the
New Alexander, East St. Kilda. The wife
of the president, Mrs. W. J. Allison, wore
a soft dove-grey taffeta ballerina frock
with pastel-tinted French roses set at the
side of the deep neckline. Mrs. Ben
Owen was in midnight-blue chenille
velvet, slimly cut. Mrs. W. Darragh’s
black French crepe dinner-gown had
touches of powder-blue crepe at the
shoulders and waistline. Mrs. George
Napier danced in a graceful gown of
black crepe with black Chantilly lace
fashioning the softly-draped top. Mrs.
Eric Barker pinned white daisies on her
black gown. An off the shoulder, bouffant-
skirted black velvet gown was Mrs. Tom
Kennon’s choice. Betty Tregear’s black
satins carried an imprint of delicate white
feathers. Marie Constantine wore silver-
grey moire taffetas, Olga Pomeroy the
same material in midnight-blue. Mes-
dames L. L. Phillips and P. Jaboor were
also among the dancers.
Shirley Soden, who will play Doris
Mead in Terence Crisp’s production of
Aldous Huxley’s “The Gioconda Smile,”
which opens a 10-nights season tonight
at the National Theatre, was educated at
Firbank. Only 18 years old, she has
been studying drama at the National
Theatre. Allan Roberts photo.
It’s something for reflection that in
the midst of colorful and wonderfully-
embroidered national costumes, all Aus-
tralia could produce was a tattered swag-
man —at least this is what happened at
the International Mannequin Parade
sponsored by the Katafilian Club of Mel-
bourne, in the Lower Town Hall. Ad-
mittedly it would be hard to beguile
Australian men into the white petticoats
of the Evzones, although these men of
Greece wore their costumes proudly.
However, from the point of view of a
fashion show the mannequin parade was
one to be remembered. Mrs. R. D.
Coleman, president of the club, was the
organiser. Her simple black crepe gown,
topped with silver-fox furs, brought into
high relief the color that surrounded her.
Stephanie Taylor had saxe-blue crepe to
set off her black gown. Mrs. Eugenie
Crawford, who is an authority on national
costumes, teamed a gold larad tunic-
blouse with a black-and-gold-striped
taffeta skirt. Mrs. R. Pettingall’s satins
were dark-green. Mrs. F. W. Spry wore
a grey Persian-lamb coat over a short
black evening-gown.
Evie Hayes, still a pistol-packing per-
sonality girl, sang and acted with all her
old charm in the return visit of “Annie
Get Your Gun” at His Majesty’s. The
cold dampness of the opening night was a
deterrent to the wearing of the tenuous
formal gown. Mrs. Frank Tait’s
auburn hair was set off to per-
fection with her black satin gown
with its striking finish of black-and-white-
striped taffeta. Mrs. E' L.‘ G. Cresswell’s
powder-blue gown had an all-over design
of tiny crystal beads. Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell, who is making plans for
a gala matinee at “Annie” for the
Melba Shell Fund, was with Mrs. Norman
Spry. Under a dyed-ermine coat Mrs.
Eric Fowler wore a beech-brown crepe
romaine frock With facings on the bodice
of p>owder-blue faille, gold-embroidered.
Jean McAnulty combined a black satin
skirt with an ice-blue satin jacket. Gold,
sequins lighted the royal-blue crepe gown
worn by Mrs. H. M. Shepherd. Betty
Clarkson’s pale-mauve tulle gown was
topped with a deep-purple velvet jacket.
From Sydney
Australian women can congratulate
themselves on receiving a very fair slice
of the birthday honors. There are five
0.8.E.5, one apiece to Matron Shaw, of
Crown-street Women’s Hospital, who has
done more to assist the arrival of very
desirable new Australians than any Immi-
gration Minister; Mrs. Jessie Vasey, of
the War Widows’ Guild, who has fought
for better conditions for that large
group of women, and by the example of
her own courage and cheerfulness, given
them heart to carry on; Mrs. Mary
Tennison Woods, who is leaving soon to
take up a big job at Lake Success as chief
of the Status of the Women section of
the Human Rights Division of the United
Nations, and who is an eminent lawyer
and writer on legal subjects; Mrs.
Florence McKenzie, who did a great
job of voluntary service ' with the
W.E.S.C. during the war; and
Strella Wilson, whose lovely voice
did much for the morale and entertain-
ment of the Services in forward areas
throughout the Pacific. The M.B.E. has
been awarded to, among others, Matron
Dorothy Maye, of Lae, New Guinea, for
gallantry during the air-raids on Kavieng,
and Miss Evelyn Tildesley, for continuous
good work in the interests of the orphans
of our fighting men. *
The wedding of Ann Berryman,
daughter of Lieut.-General and Mrs. F.
H. Berryman, to Bill Wills, only son of
Brigadier and Mrs, K. A. Wills, of Ade-
laide, at St. Mark’s, Darling Point, was
one of the loveliest held at a church noted
for elegant bridal ceremonies. Ivy twined
with flowers wreathed the pillars of the
church, and pastel-toned flowers were
massed at vantage points. The General,
who is G.O.C. Eastern Command, wore
morning dress to give the bride away.
Yards of billowing fairy-like tulle, cun-
ningly fashioned into graduated tiers of
silver-edged frills, formed the skirt of
the bridal gown, which swept back to
form a foamy train. The fitted bodice
was heavily encrusted with diamente and
pearls, taken from Mrs. Berryman’s pre-
sentation dress. An uncommon note was
the ballerina-length red velvet frocks of
the bridesmaids, Carolyn Wills, of Ade-
laide, Judith Stacy, of Singleton, and
Pam Allsop, who also wore white petalled
caps and carried trailing white gardenias.
Mrs. Berryman wore an aqua wool frock
with a fox stole and befeathered matching
hat. Mrs, K. A. Wills, the bridegroom’s
mother, chose an embossed brocade suit
and fur-trimmed hat.
At the reception at the Staff Corps
mess, the bride cut a three-tiered cake (the
centre one decorated with little sailing-
ships as a compliment to the bridegroom’s
interests) with her father’s sword, the
same one that her mother had used to
cut her wedding-cake. Among the guests
were Lieut.-General Sir Leslie Morshead
and Lady Morshead, Lieut.-General Sir
Ivan Mackay, Brigadier and Mrs. J.
Mann, Sir James and Lady Hay Gosse,
of Adelaide, Miss Elizabeth Northcott
and Mr. and Mrs, Gordon Cantler, of
Melbourne.
Sydney University Centenary celebra-
tions opened with much pomp and cir-
cumstance despite the rain. The initial
launching ceremony at the Town Hall
was convened by the Lord Mayor on be-
half of the citizens of the State. All sec-
tions of the university and the public
were present —well over 2000 of them.
The official procession was a colorful
affair ; almost a pageant. Academic robes
of some magnificence vied with those of
the city fathers and with the uniforms
of the three arms of the services. The
opening address was given by the Gover-
nor, Lieut.-General Sir John Northcott.
Following him, Chancellor Sir Charles
Bickerton Blackburn expressed gratitude
for the £lOO,OOO grant recently made by
the State Government, and said no
other university had made progress
comparable to that of Sydney Uni-
versity in its century of existence.
There will be a great drive for
funds during these celebrations, which
will last for three years. This year cele-
brates the passing of the Act and the
obtaining of the Royal assent; next year
will commemorate the first meeting of
the University Senate ; and 1952 the com-
mencement of the lectures. There was a
good quota of women in their caps and
gowns. There is no faculty to which they
are now denied admission. Miss Fanny
Cohen, a member of the Senate, was with
the official group. Among other women
present was Miss Marjorie Jacobs, Pro-
fessor Ruth Inglis, Mrs. J. Metcalf (presi-
dent of the National Council of Women),
Dr. Dorothy Carroll, of the Linnean
Society, Miss Thelma Herring, Mrs. W.
L. Waterhouse and thi* ■
th New «
iSS-ass
Moon," the Doris FiSon^j o ' th '
which opens tonight at the ins roducti °n
studied ballet in® London JffWk
During her two vears’ Sydney
University she joined Sycl ney
came so enamored of the fMtiighte thai
ge gave up her arts course to join Mav
Hollmworth at the Metropolitan. S
touring m ‘Twelfth Night.” 1
t,v T N% w*n Ball , arran E«l for July 21
by N.S.W. Opera Inc. promises to be an
outstanding show for Sydney. The com
mittee say the Trocadero is to be trans-
formed with special opera and ballet
decors ; glamor to be the keynote Sets
are being arranged to represent various
ballets and operas. There will be a cos-
tume pageant for which prizes have been
donated both for sets and individual cos-
tumes. Additional prizes are offered for
table decorations. Mrs. Tom Ley
Alexander presided last week at a meet-
ing at the Australia which elected a group
responsible for what bids fair to be a
lavish supper. In addition there will be
a buffet embellished with succulent dishes
prepared by Mr. Walter Magnus and
other restaurateurs of distinction. De-
tails are a close secret. Among those at
the meeting was Mrs, Hayward Veal,
Mrs. Finlay White, Countess Pietrasanta-
Sauvaigue, Mrs. Pollard Gibbons, Mrs.
Bleekrode, Mrs. C. T. Lorenz, Miss Lily
Kolos and Mrs. Walter Bunning, who
will be responsible for the decor. Visit-
ing lights of the theatre and allied arts
will be invited to act as judges.
A good sprinkling of New Englanders
were at the joint annual ball given by
T.A.S. and N.E.G.S. at the Wentworth
last week. Colored leaves and poinsettias
turned the ballroom into a background
of autumn loveliness against which
charming young things in spreading
frocks and personable young men had a
get-together. The guests were welcomed
by the Sydney president of T.A.S. Old
Boys’ Union, Mr. Jack Mobbs, and Mrs.
Mobbs, who was nicely draped in cream
wool georgette with crystal trimming, and
Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Wearne. Mrs.
Wearne, who is president of N.E.G.S.
Old Girls’ Association, chose a sequined
navy French-spotted net frock. Among
the official guests were the presidents ot
the G.P.S. Old Boys and Girls’ Unions.
Betty Leckie, secretary of the Brisbane
branch of the N.E.G.S. Union wore
bouffant spotted organdie, Racnaei
Williams, secretary of the Y.S., dancea
in a frosty white pique off-the-shoulder
model and marshalled a large par y.
Other big parties were brought by Rob*
Knight, of Corindi, and Ann Cullen. Mr.
Mackinson’s paisly silks and
Sandy’s green tulle caught the eye as d
the handsome parchment satin
Melba Berry, of Tamworth,
The Woman’s Pioneer Sodety heW a
coming-of-age party at th 6l *, by
for the 21st birthday, and although oy
5.30 p.m. the rain was formidable t
rooms were crowded lth .^ er Je ri . y and
their friends gathered to S T f e J d in
taste the lovely birthday-cak , t 2l
the club’s colors and cornpl d name s
candles. As would be expected nam^
significant in Australia s Richard
lated freely. President Jf rs nd K dark er
Vallack, in a blue wool suit a a by
blue hat, received the guests yS>
Margaret Perkins, president or wjth
whose slim black f . ldde black
a fox cape and an e u^ hd .. c u georgette
cloche trimmed with b ® in-
arum-lilies. Foundation W-
eluded Carlotta Doyle ostrich .
Lingham, who had ag of her
plume curling at Moore, Mrs-
smart toque. Mrs. L. • BlaX j an d and
J. P. O’Sullivan, Mrs. Guy
Mrs. S. C. Pinnmgton were n


FIRST IN 1888
No other Battery can match . . .
« , , •'V.^:>'>wvV
FIRST TODAY!
Exide’s 61 Years* Experience
EXIDE
BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
■ • - i- ■ * -• ■ " • > , • t i ... . • *
XA9.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
Douglas Berry Copland, K.B.E. in last
week’s honors, is a forceful and versatile
New Zealander who has had a brilliant
career in Australia. Educated in N.Z.,
he crossed to the University of Tasmania
in 1917 as a lecturer in history and
economics, later became Professor of
Economics there, then Dean of the
Faculty of Economics at Melbourne Uni
from 1924 to 1944, and in between
helped to shape the Premiers’ Plan (1931),
acted as Commonwealth Prices Commis-
sioner and economic consultant to the
Prime Minister (1939-45), and as com-
missioner of the Victorian Savings Bank
(1940-45). As well he has been a prolific
economic writer and committee-man.
After the war he became Minister to
China, and is now Vice-Chancellor of
the National University at Canberra. At
56 he’s just getting into his stride., He hit
the headlines last year with his descrip-
tion of Australia’s unbalanced industrial
set-up as a “milk-bar economy.”
A. G. Lund, one-time Maoriland
journalist who, for three and a half years,
represented M.L. on the International
Wool Secretariat, replaces knight Charles
McCann, Agent-General for S. Australia,
as chairman of that outfit. First stepping
the Inky Way on Christchurch “Sun” in
1926, he became Parliamentary rep. for
Christchurch “Press’* and Otago “Daily
News,” and, at 27, was picked as editor
of the Invercargill “News.” With the
M.L. Air Force in the Solomons in the
last scrap, he collected M.B.E. from John
Bull and a commendation from Uncle
Sara.
“J.E.M.”: S.-w. Queensland Old
Diggers will remember Inspector
O’Driscoll (B. 7/6/’5O) as the plain-
clothes man in charge of the 150 armed
police rushed to Charleville before the
Circuit Court sittings at which ex-Light-
horseman Major Bolingbroke (of Idriess’s
Desert Column ) and Lt. “Kewpie” Russell
stood trial and were acquitted of inciting
to riot. Trouble began when returning
Diggers, incensed at the flourishing of a
spielers’ regime which had grown up in
their absence, formed a vigilante com-
mittee some 400 strong. Accepting
leadership reluctantly, and in a spirit of
mateship, Bolingbroke and Russell moved
their command from point to point in
disciplined column of fours. The leaders
were arrested; shortly afterwards a
shindy arose which had nothing to do
with the arrest, but concerned a bibulous
teamster’s reluctance to be taken by six
policemen. Misinterpreted, the disturb-
ance flared already-hot tempers to flash-
point ; the Diggers faced the drawn-up
police detachment. At the crucial
moment O’Driscoll strode between both
groups, ordered nervy policemen to
holster impetuously-drawn pistols, and,
in his soothing brogue, addressed the
mob. Minutes later the Diggers melted
into the nearest pub, grinning in appreci-
ation at the copper’s witticisms.
Advance and be recognised:
Among the new knights, General Stanley
f Vl fu was known before the late war as one
ot the most active philanthropists in Mel-
bourne—founder ■ of the Legacy Club, board
member of the Charity, Organisation Society
the Victorian Permanently Dis-
aoied Soldier’s Association being some of his
m uvv?* 1 ? 8 . in that sphere. He started soldiering
i n . m2 > Junior cadet, enlisted for War I, private,
d emerged captain with 1>.5.0., serving on
uatiipoli, m France and with the Dunsterforce
Persia, out of which came a book, Stalky’s
Hope. in War 11. he fought from
vii J a u- 9 reece t° New Guinea and Bougain-
'mie, brigade-commander in the former areas,
corps-commander in the latter. Born in Morwell
vie.; now 60, he’s a company director,
iveu il. Fairley is a Melbourne ’Varsity man
B< ?t nis doctorate of tropical medicine at
j- nndge, and in War I studied tropical
on e ?^ S ’u SO i me thc dreadest of their kind,
tn th the Nile. Then he returned
bnnrrf / , a , t^ r and Eliza Hall Institute in Mel-
FP e - He s a Harley-street man now.
fnr tu funder Jensen was running messages
AfriVnn .defence Department back in the S'
n r ~a nT war; m the next war he had charge
in tw , on don office of the Ministry of Supply;
e “test he was Essington Lewis’s principal
S;™ n Ministry of Munitions. Self-
eriacmg, Bendigo-born and 66.
John Storey, Old Fortian, B.Sc. from Sydney
rvr e H "! as direc t° r of manufacturing for
i-'f'f 1 0 wens when he took his constructional
in loan W u to u th f P ept -. of Aircraft Production
f “ " e n, a d been in automotive business
L or .: y ® a |; s ' and supervised the erection of
e xten sive new plant at Fisherman’s
cend, Melbourne, and Pagewood, Sydney.
mq«/ m Sydney he was vice-president of the
Chamber of Manufactures and presi-
dent of the Automotive Manufacturers’ Associa-
xr°c\i/ tie’s the son of the former
fs.S.W. Labor Premier of the same name.
Diggers of both wars were the best
customers of munitions-man Jack Finlay
he helped establish the Lithgow Small
Artns factory almost 40 years ago, stayed
with it, and at his retirement
last month was its g.-m. One of the
country’s recognised authorities on
machine-tool manufacture, he was
awarded recently the Florence Taylor
Memorial Medal for his production-work
in both World Wars. In retirement he’s
maintaining his interest in experimenta-
tion, with private enterprise the intended
beneficiary.
Culture got a look-in in the Birthday
Honors in the shape of 0.8.E.S to Strella
Wilson, Australian singer, and to James
Henry Davey, Ballarat businessman, noted
for voluntary services to charitable move-
ments. He is also a musical-leader and
a daffodil-grower.
A man who has been making money
hand-over-fist for 50 years and yet re-
ceives an income tax assessment no higher
than a taxi-driver and not as high as a
wharfie, has just received the Imperial
Service Medal in Melbourne. Fifth at
the Royal Mint to be thus honored,
A. J. McLearie retired last year from the
job of foreman at that institution, which
is one of the most beautiful of Mel-
bourne’s old buildings. He started in
1898 as a boy and worked through the
melting-house to the coining department,
where he became foreman. He doesn’t
know how much money he has made, but
in 1943 he handled 72 million coins.
Detained for a moment here by Prior
as he hurtled from New Zealand to Italy,
Professor Ronald Syme is probably the
most brilliant classical scholar New Zea-
land has produced. He was born (1903)
in the small town of Eltham, in the green
dairying country of Taranaki, where his
father still practises as a solicitor, and
he is now Camden Professor of Ancient
History at Oxford. He revisited his
native land recently at the request of the
University of N.Z.; flew to Sydney to
PROF. SYME, of M.L.
deliver the third of the Todd Memorial
Lectures (which has been printed under
the title A Roman Post-Mortem; an
Inquest on the Fall of the Roman
Republic) ; and flew off again to join the
U.K. delegation to Unesco in Florence.
His academic distinctions, his war-time
diplomatic services in Belgrade and Istan-
bul and his gigantic tome entitled The
Roman Revolution all sit surprisingly
lightly on him, and he is more like a
whirlwind than the conventional figure
of a professor.
Now on his second Australasian tour,
Tito Schipa, limned here by Dubois, is a
typical product of the school of bel canto
—the injection of a shot of Latin passion
into his climaxes comes as natural to him
as breathing, his control over which is so
good that, when at the Brisbane Town
Hall, his accompanist opened at the
grand organ on “Canis Angelicus” while
Tito was still on the platform, the tenor
tore up the steep incline to take his
proper place near the keyboard and im-
mediately launched into the song. Since
he made his debut in “Traviata” at
TITO SCHIPA.
Vercelli over 30 years ago Schipa has
lifted his lyric tenor in opera-houses all
over the world, his repertoire embracing
30 roles. Honors he has collected in
heaps; they include the French Legion
of Honor, and four from the Vatican. A
prized possession is four pearl-and-
diamond waistcoat buttons, gift of the
Queen of Spain after Tito had given a
private session of song at the palace. The
tenor is an expert on the guitar—he is
probably the only Don Ottavio since the
tenor of the original cast of Mozart’s
opera in 1787 to dispense with the harp as a
“ghost” for the guitar usually “strummed”
on a dummy. At Buenos Aires during the
Eucharistic Congress there the present
Pope Pius XII, who was then Cardinal
Pacelli, had his responses in the Mass
sung by Schipa, the guest soloist. The
record of it, “cut” from the broadcast,
is another Valued souvenir—the only duet
anyone has made with his Holiness.
“Fitz’’: When The Bulletin called a month
ago on Tom McMahon to congratulate him on
his 90th birthday, Tom asked: “How is my
friend poor old Ned East getting along?”
Deaf, blind and crippled, but remarkably
cheerful for the past eight years, W. H. East,
The Bulletin’s foreman-compositor for many
years, died last week in his 88th year, in Sydney.
Ned to some and Bill to others, East joined
the paper at its founding, a week before Tom
McMahon arrived on the *scene, at 107
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, and the two were
workmates until their retirement in 1928. Born
at Point Piper (Sydney), East was an apprentice-
compositor when he came to The Bulletin
from the “Freeman’s Journal,” and helped to
set-up the first issue. In an article printed 20
years ago he recalled that any old box served
to build a frame at which the comps could
work and that the type was an odd mixture
of new and old faces scraped together somehow
by resourceful John Haynes. In those days the
whole type was set-up by hand, letter by letter,
and it was not until 1911 that The Bulletin
acquired its first linotypes. East worked with
the paper long before specialisation was intro-
duced into the printing trade, and had to master
every branch of the game—in his time setting-
up type, preparing it for the press, machining
the job and, in an emergency, even casting
the rollers for the work. East could recall the
MSS. of Marcus Clarke, Henry Kendall, Thos.
Bracken, Louis Becke, “Banjo” Paterson, John
Farrell, Von Kotze, William Astley, Edmund
Fisher and Ernest Favenc. He considered that
“The Banjo” turned in the best printer’s copy
and that William Astley wrote the worst hand-
writing of all Bulletin contributors. Ned
turned out many paragraphs and articles him-
self for the paper he helped to set-up for 48
years. Aw'ay from the office he led a quiet
family life, devoting his leisure hours to read-
ing, gardening, fishing and church-work.
J. K. Moir, Knight Grand Cheese of
Melbourne’s Bread and Cheese Club, who
is bringing out a book of verse by
“Bellerive,” is a restless fellow in his
middle fifties with a passion for Aus-
tralian literature. Credit-manager of a
Melbourne emporium, he works as hard
as three men during business hours and
devotes the rest to barracking for the
hnnJ? a m He CoUects Australian
books m thousands and owns one of the
largest and most interesting private
libraries in the country. An indefatigable
correspondent, he does his letter-writing
fiom midnight on, spreading news about
forthcoming books, congratulating writers
on their successes, coaxing others to sup-
port some worthy literary cause and
generously extending a spirit of good-
fellowship. His home is a regular meet-
mg-place, and few writers from ud-
country or other States pay a visit to
Melbourne without calling there. Many
a poet owes the appearance of his first
volume to Moir, who has backed the
venture and steered it through the Press.
It would take inches of type to list the
societies of which he is a key man-one
pf them is Cobb and Co.’s Old Coach-
drivers Association, of which he’s patron
Born up near the Gulf of Carpentaria,
Moir spent his boyhood on a cattle-
stution Said a friend: “In the literary
world Jack s a champion musterer, drover
and bullocky. He’s an expert at round-
mg up the stragglers; one flick of his
stockwhip and we get into action.”
Latest award of the J. K. Moir Natural
History Medallion has gone to Mrs. Edith
Coleman, of Blackburn, Victoria, one of
Australia’s most prolific and widely-
known writers on our flora and fauna, the
first woman to be awarded the medallion
Author of Come Back in Wattle Time,
Mrs. Coleman is an acknowledged
authority on orchids, and owns to a size-
able tally of articles printed in news-
papers and magazines in Victoria and
N.S.W., many of them in the “Woman’s
Mirror.”
Passed on in Melbourne, George
Sutherland, the father of music-publish-
ing in Australia, who started as a
messenger-boy at Allan’s on a few
shillings, when publication of Australian
music was scarcely thought of. When
the firm celebrated its centenary the other
day Sutherland, as its managing-director,
could say that it had since published
works of Alfred Hill, Frank Hutchens,
Margaret Sutherland, Mary Brahe and
dozens of other Australian songbirds,
while the sales of the “Australian Music
Books” had run into millions. Forty-
three years with the firm, Sutherland sdw
Brownlee, Melba, Marjorie Lawrence
and others going to their first lessons in
the building. His last act was todkmnd
a scholarship for the complete musical
training of promising youngsters. He
was 73.
Into the Silence:— ;
In Adelaide, at 64, Dr. Reginald Verco, senior
Australian delegate on the B.M.A. Federal
Council and a practising medico in St. Peters
(Adelaide) for close on 37 years. In the late war
he had an unusually long three-year term
as State president of the 8.M.A., and for seven
years had been his State’s delegate to the
Federal Council. He came of a distinguished
medical family-—his uncle was Sir Joseph Verco;
also, a cousin is president of the Australian and
New Zealand College of Radiologists and a
son a doctor.
At Ballarat, at 62, Rev. Dr. Clifford Norman
Button, M.A., Ph.D., minister of St. Andrew’s
kirk and one of the leading figures in the
Presbyterian Church in Victoria, of which he
was moderator twice. He varied a long ministry
in Australia with a tutorship at a New York
theological college and a church in Scotland.
A muscular Christian, he often hitch-hiked from
Ballarat to Melbourne.
In Brisbane, F. L. Wiley, known well in the
vast north, where he was Vacuum Oil’s manager
for five years until becoming assistant general
manager for the State in 1941. Queenslander-
born, he was wounded with the old A.1.F.,
joined the oil co. in 1923, and, at his retirement
two years ago, was g.m. for Queensland.
In Wellington (M.L.), Major Francis George
Lampen, whose colorful career took in soldier-
ing, broadcasting and film-producing, to name
a few 9f his interests. Son of a soldier, born
in India, he entered Sandhurst, returned to
India to the Bengal Lancers, crossed to M.L.
in 1910 and was in England when the Kaiser
marched. Collecting a band of Maorilanders,
he trained them at what became the chief
British centre for the N.Z.E.F. —Sling Camp.
He went with his Maorilanders to Gallipoli,
won the D. 5.0., and shipped btvjk to M.L.
to become Camp Commandant at Trentham.
In Brisbane, John Campbell, officially assistant
migration officer, unofficially one of the brightest
spots in "the lives of hundreds of under-
privileged Brisbane nippers. For the past 10
years he had been their beloved Father
Christmas.


NEVER FORGETS
A sea-captain
turns detective
ONE THING
A MAN
by STANDBY
(R.S PORTEOUS)
f“\ MONG his fellow seamen Captain
I Stark of the S.S. Palmyra stood
| out as a brightly-plumaged parrot
would stand out in a cage of doves.
Without their uhiforms other masters
might be mistaken for staid businessmen
or shopkeepers. Stark could never be
taken for anything but a seaman. Nature
had presented him with a tall, command-
ing figure, she had given him penetrating
grey eyes set in a strong square-cut face.
But Stark improved on nature. He
purposely exposed himself to the sun for
long periods so that his face and hands
were always deeply tanned, his shore-
going clothes were beautifully cut —
always with double-breasted coats —he
wore his hat at a rakish angle and
walked with a swagger. At sea he kept
himself fit with strenuous physical jerks,
so that throughout his life he retained the
broad shoulders and slim waist of a
trained athlete.
Where other seamen shunned publicity
Stark courted it. His very movements as
he shouldered his way into a crowded bar
shouted “Gangway for a seaman! ”
While you might not like the man you
couldn’t possibly ignore him. He was too
colorful, too vitally alive for that. Meet-
ing hinufor the first time you felt his
grey eyes boring into you, summing you
up, reading your secrets before moving
on to someone or something more
interesting. And in those eyes you saw
the restless driving energy of the man,
saw the secret behind his record for
quick passages in an old ship. With
Stark, you quickly realised, there would
be no side-stepping of an issue, no taking
the easy way. Arrogant, overbearing and
boastful, Jie was disliked by nearly every-
one who had served under him.
He boasted, with some justification
certainly, about his unblemished record,
his physical endurance, his ship and her
fast passages, always omitting to mention
that the Palmyra was now far from a new
ship. He boasted of his company, though
heaven knows why. The Palmyra was
owned by an obscure Singapore firm —
Levantine Jews, judging by the names of
the principals—a firm with a somewhat-
unsavory reputation in shipping circles.
They treated Stark handsomely, how-
ever, possibly because they were shrewd
enough to realise what an asset his
driving energy was to them. In return,
Stark spoke of them as another man
might speak of one of the crack mail
lines, and he never spared himself in their
interests. Long hours and the strain of
keeping going in reefbound waters and
poor visibility meant nothing to him.
Indeed, he seemed to thrive on them, for
in the ten years I had known him he had
not aged one day. Age! It was a thing
you did not associate with Stark. Im-
possible to picture this lean, arrogant
swaggerer as old or fading. Certainly his
tanned face was lined, but the lines were
of experience rather than age.
But the time comes when age catches
up with the toughest man. It caught up
with Stark overnight, leaped on him out
of the darkness and rain in waters he
knew as well as he knew his way around
his own decks.
THE voyage was Batavia to Sydney,
and until the Palmyra entered the
Torres Straits it had been uneventful
enough. Ordinarily even those narrow,
reef-studded waters would have presented
no worries for either Stark or his chief
officer. Both men knew the inner route
well, but on this occasion they were un-
lucky enough to strike the tail-end of the
wet season. For three days and nights it
rained with varying degrees of intensity,
three anxious days and nights during
which Stark seldom left the bridge and
never slept. Another man would have
anchored, but to him that would have
been an admission of incompetence.
Thick though the weather was, there were
enough gaps in it to enable him to keep
going in safety.
Soon after midnight on the third night
the rain cleared, but Stark did not turn
in until Mr. Walston, his chief officer,
came on watch at four o’clock. Feeling
damnably tired, he was glad to see
Walston and only too pleased to be hand-
ing over to him. Not that Stark
had any liking for his chief officer. He
hated him. He’d; taken a dislike to him
the day Walston joined the ship nearly
eighteen months ago, and he made no
attempt to conceal his feelings.
Walston was not English. His swarthy
complexion, his over-large nose and his
too-sauve manner all indicated that.
Moreover he was guilty of the most un-
pardonable crime, in Stark’s eyes, of
wearing a moustache, a thin pencil-line of
black across his upper lip. No British
seaman, Stark held, had a right to wear a
thing like that. But there was more be-
hind Stark’s hatred than mere looks.
Walston’s uncle was one of the partners
of the Company, a plump, swarthy in-
dividual who had never altered his name
from the original “Valstien.” And always,
deep in the back of Stark’s mind, was the
haunting fear that Walston had been sent
to understudy and eventually replace him.
That suspicion made him particularly
objectionable and overbearing to his
chief officer, whose only response was the
faintest expression of half-smiling
tolerance.
There was nothing Stark could do
about that expression. It was too in-
definite to be called insolent and
Walston was always polite. A shade too
polite perhaps, yet in some subtle way
he managed to convey the impression that
he was above and impervious to all his
captain’s insults.
For twelve months Stark had waited for
his chance. He had checked everything
his new chief officer did and he had taken
no trouble to hide his distrust. Rather he
had flaunted it. Just one slip, his
manner plainly said, one small slip and
I’ll have you where I want you. But
Walston had made no slips. He had
learned his seamanship under a good
man, he had more than his share of
brains, and his navigation was faultless.
Hating him as he did, Stark was forced
ultimately to admit that he’d never seen
a better navigator.
THE second mate handed over the
watch, mumbled “Goodnight” and
departed.
“You can take her now, mister,” Stark
growled at Walston. “I’m turning in.”
“Very good, sir,” Walston answered
cheerfully, “Nice to see a bit of clear
sky again, isn’t it, sir?”
Stark’s grunt could have meant any-
thing, or nothing. And then, although he
knew his chief officer was as familiar
with the vagaries of the currents in those
waters as he was, he said, “Keep a good
check on her. Don’t let these currents
set her off her course, and have me called
at once if it starts to come on thick
again.” His cabin was just below the
bridge and he turned in thankfully.
The old Palmyra ploughed steadily
southward, her bows lifting and falling
gently to an almost imperceptible swell.
Around her, islands stood in bold relief
against the rapidly clearing sky. An easy
watch for a man familiar with those
waters, but Walston left nothing to
chance. He took bearings and “put the
ship on the chart” every half hour. In the
rough deck log-book he entered the
slight changes of course that the current
forced him to make. In his five o’clock
entry he wrote “Heavy cloud bank and
faint lightning ahead.” His entries and
chartwork were models of neatness and
precision.
By 4.36 it was obvious that the cloud-
bank ahead was developing into one of
those early-morning tropical deluges.
McMahon, the seaman on lookout,
pointed to the lighter line of rain under
the dark cloud-mass and said:
“Looks like we’re in for a proper
duckin’, mister.”
“We are,” Walston agreed. “Slip aft
and get me the log reading while I take
some bearings.”
Mr. McMahon was a dried-up little
Irishman who had ruined himself with
heavy drinking. He was either very
absentminded or else utterly incapable of
concentrating on anything but the
simplest tasks. He had even been known
to report the reading of the patent log
incorrectly.
»
WALSTON was waiting at the door of
the chartroom when McMahon re-
turned and reported “It’s sixty-nine point
six, sir.”
“Sixty-nine point six,” Walston
repeated. “Right, McMahon, you’d
better slip down and call the
captain. Tell him it’s coming on
to rain.” Already the first big drops were
spattering down. He was about to step
into the chartroom when he said “Wait a
niinute. You said sixty-nine point six.
That can’t be right. Stay here and keep
a sharp lookout while I check that. I’ll
call the captain myself while I’m below.”
He slid agilely down the ladder and a
few moments later he was back alongside
McMahon. “I knew damned well you
were wrong,” he said. “Why the hell
can’t you ever do things properly? That
reading was sixty-six point nine.”
“S’welp me, mister” Stung by the
sneer in the mate’s voice McMahon was
starting to defend himself, but Walston
cut him short.
“Save it,” he snapped. “Captain
Stark’s on his way up. You can explain
it to him.”
He stepped into the chartroom and
made a rapid entry: “5.32. Heavy rain
ahead. Visibility decreasing. Called
master.” Alongside his plotted position
on the chart he wrote “Log 66.9
Speed 10 knots.” There was nothing
slipshod about Walston’s navigation.
Pulling on his oilskin, he took up his
position on the opposite end of the bridge
from McMahon. The rain was heavier
now but he could still see the nearer
islands.
j T was pouring down in torrents ten
* minutes later, blotting out every sign of
land. Without a breath of wind to drive
it aslant it tumbled straight down in end-
less streams, pouring from the scuppers
and churning the sea alongside to foam.
Anxiously straining their eyes, Walston
and McMahon could make out nothing
beyond the watery blur that was their
own fo’c’sle-head.
“You’d better slip below and give the
captain another call.” Walston was
alongside McMahon now, shaking his
arm and half shouting to make himself
heard above the heavy drumming of the
rain. “He must have gone to sleep after
I called him. Tell him it’s raining like
hell.” He moved away and jerked the
handle of the engineroom telegraph to
“Stand by.”
Captain Stark came up the bridge
ladder ahead of McMahon.
“Why the hell wasn’t I called before?”
he bellowed.
“I called you, sir, about fifteen minutes
ago,” Walston explained. “I thought
you must have fallen asleep again, so I
sent McMahon down.”
• “You called me! What the blazes are
you trying to ram down my neck?”
“I assure you, sir”
“Shut up. I’ll go into that later.
Where are we?”
“She was right on her course at five-
thirty, sir, just before the rain started. An-
other half-hour should bring us abreast of
Pheasant Island. There was no; shipping
in sight, but I rang ‘Stand by,’ sir. I
thought you’4 be slowing her down.”.
“So you’re doing my thinking for me
now!” The anger in Stark’s voice
changed to sarcasm. “I don’t doubt
you’re hoping to get this command some
day, Walston, but at present I’m giving
the orders. Understand?” He strode to
the telegraph and slammed the pointer to
“Full Ahead” before stepping into the
chartroom.
How typical of the man that action
was! Without Walston’s suggestion he
might have slowed down ; heaven knows
the rain was thick enoush tw
the very real risk o£“head ' low ,>,f v 'n
with a north-bound ship wouldn't® If 011
him to slacken speed. n 1 llM * Uce
|ZS ENDING over the
DCaptain Stark carefully "'“'i
Walstons positions on the chart d 3
checked his calculations for speed p d
the last hour, he noted, the ur ren , &
been setting the ship inshore aL.
counteract that set Walston had twi«
altered course to port The last oif» *. lce
had been sufficient, for the 5 M
showed her to be right o„ her
half an hour, at her present speed of in
knots, she would pass between Pheasant
Island and Cormorant Rocks with the
islands two miles distant on the port hand
and Cormorant Rocks nearly three miles
off the starboard. And, following th e
sound principle of hugging the m OS
prominent danger, that was as it should
have been. Pheasant Island was bold
rocky and steep-to, a prominent land-
mark ; Cormorant Rocks were
treacherous, hidden dangers, awash at
halt tide, completely covered at hish
water. 5
Captain Stark tossed his pencil aside
and stepped out on to the darkened
bridge. Walston’s plotted positions and
concise entries had given him a clear
picture of the ship’s movements and
present position. Most important of all
was the fact that the current was setting
him towards a hidden danger. In-
stinctively he shied away from it. By
steering a few more degrees to port he
would pass closer to, but still well clear
of the island—well over a mile from it if
he kept going. He gave the helmsman the
order immediately.
But headstrong thruster though he was,
Stark had no intention, of barging blind-
fold between the two dangers ahead. He
could afford to keep on for twenty
minutes —no longer. If Pheasant Island
didn’t show up by then he’d anchor and
wait for the rain to clear off.
“Get ready to anchor,” he snapped at
Walston. “And keep a sharp lookout for
Pheasant Island from up for’ard.”
To McMahon he said “You should
see an island on the port bow shortly.
It’s high and rocky. Keep your eyes
skinned and let out a yell as soon as you
see it.”
A useless order, he reflected. Neither'
he nor McMahon could see one yard
beyond the faint outline of the fo’c’sle-
head. Sheet lightning was flickering
through the storm now, but it did nothing
to improve the visibility. Rather it
tended, by lighting up the objects within
the ship, to blind the watchers to what
lay ahead.
Walston and the carpenter climbed to
the fo’c’sle-head and bent over the wind-
lass, two vague figures, wraith-like an
unreal. One straightened up and movea
for’ard, right into the eyes of the ship
Walston keeping a lookout, for what
was worth. If a north-bound vessel
leaped out of that rain the hv° P
would be tearing each other apart
Walston had finished his warning shout
Stark allowed himself a moment*
satisfaction from the knowledge
chief officer would undoubtedly
if such a crash occurred.
Fifteen of Stark’s allotted twenly
minutes crawled past and sttl e
showed no sign of easmg. a ft
go,” he informed McMahon. P
and get the log-line m.” or£ j e r.
McMahon never obeyed astcfD)
Walston’s frantic shout of F turn ing
sir! Full astern!” came as he wa
away. Even as he shou e e
Walston and the carpenter they
aft, running madly from the dang
alone had seen.
, what a feeble, fih ,e
CULL astern! What a i ave been
i gesture! The dange an d it takes
close for Walston to see it, {0 halt
time, an appalling f deadweight
several thousand tcns j knots-
slipping through U
The engmeroom telegram


tangling its answer as the Palmyra struck,
Smck with the grinding shriek of tearing
metal the agonised scream of a mortally
wounded' ship. Her bows lifted, she
lurched over to starboard and crashed to
a stop, her reversed propellers churning
the water under her counter in a boiling
flurry of useless power. And high above
her masthead, blurred, faint and shadowy
through the downpour, towered the
rocky cliffs of Pheasant Island.
From the dry warmth of the fo’c’sle
half-clad men came tumbling in a mad
scramble. Like motley, soaking hens they
clustered along the high port bulwarks as
if hoping their combined weight would
bring their ship back to an even keel.
Sodden and thoroughly scared, they
stared upwards to the dim outline of the
bridge, anxiously awaiting their captain’s
first order. v
But it was their chief officer who took
charge, who ordered the boats to be
swung 1 out and advised the
men to salvage their personal gear. It was
Walston who made the rounds with the
carpenter, sounding the wells and
establishing the fact that the Palmyra was
doomed. Holed for more than half her
length, she was resting on a sloping rock-
ledge and listing at an ever-increasing
angle with the mounting flood-tide. It was
Walston who gathered up the ship’s
papers, the charts, the deck-log contain-
ing all the evidence, and even the scribbl-
ing pad on which he’d jotted the bearings
taken during his watch. Though there
was a tense excitement, at times approach-
ing panic, among the crew, Walston re-
mained the perfect chief officer through-
out, calm, methodical and thoroughly
competent, as if abandoning a rapidly
sinking ship was an everyday routine.
And during the whole anxious period
' Captain Stark was like a man sleepwalk-
ing. He gave no orders, scarcely
acknowledged his officer’s reports. He
questioned Walston dazedly about times
and positions during his watch, and the
chief officer answered in the manner of a
patient mother explaining things to a sick
and fretful child. At any other time Stark
would have shown his resentment of the
tone by an outburst of blasting abuse.
Now he seemed not to notice it, and
merely nodded when Walston excused
himself to superintend the launching of
the boats before the list got too heavy,
No longer was he the assured, masterful
seaman ; he was dazed and broken, a man
living in the past while his despised
chief officer was taking care of the
future.
C'jNCE Stark roused himself sufficiently
to make his way aft along the sloping
deck to study the patent log. Its motion-
less pointers confirmed Walston’s entries.
According to them the Palmyra was three
miles from Pheasant Island, yet here she
lay, perilously clinging to its outer rock
ledge, threatening at any moment to over-
turn and slide off into deep water. Limp
as the log-line that trailed slackly over the
stern, Stark clung there, staring at those
pointers. He wasn’t questioning them.
He’d given up questioning anything. It
was as if the jagged rocks that had
wrecked his ship had pierced his ego and
let all his colossal energy and self-con-
fidence flow out, leaving him utterly be-
wildered, incapable even of grasping the
fact that he, the infallible Captain Stark,
had slammed his ship straight into a solid
rock wall. Before the disaster he’d been
arrogantly certain that he had not been
called before the rain started. Now he
could only remember that he’d been
damnably tired when he turned in.
After that anything could have happened.
“It’s time you were leaving her, sir,”
the efficient Walston told him patiently.
“The hands are in the boats. Everyone’s
accounted for and we’re ready to cast
off. I’m afraid she’ll turn over shortly.”
In bright sunlight they lounged in the
lifeboats and watched the old Palmyra go.
The sea, except for the gentle surge
against the cliffs, was glassy-calm, so
calm that when she finally rolled over
and disappeared, the boiling turmoil of
her going rocked the surface for
hundreds of yards around.
COUR hours later Captain Johnstone
in the Orkabie picked them up.
He’d known Stark intimately for years,
but he scarcely recognised him as he
clambered awkwardly up from the life-
boat. The Stark he knew was ageless,
mdestructable in his vigorous arrogance;
this man was old and feeble. The grey
eyes were listless, almost unseeing. The
that used to clamp into such a
hard, aggressive line now hung slackly,
sagging at the comers so that a thin
thread of saliva dribbled over his un-
shaven chin. His broad shoulders
drooped dejectedly, and he shuffled where
once he would have swung with a
vigorous stride, making the steel deck-
plates ring under his heels.
Captain Johnstone took him up to his
cabin, poured him a drink and literally
dragged the story out of him. As if feel-
ing the futility of discussing the subject
Stark answered all questions reluctantly.
He was solely to blame, he said. The ship
was in his hands when she struck, had
been for nearly twenty minutes. He had
given the order that doomed her. No, it
was useless talking over the matter. He’d
been guilty of a grave error of judgment
and that’s all there was to it.
My God, Johnstone,” he finished
passionately. “Can’t you see I don’t
want to talk about it? All my fife I’ve
courted publicity, and now, when I don’t
want it, I won’t be able to dodge it. This
affair will be headline news. I can’t even
lose my ship like an ordinary man. If
it had been a collision or even a sub-
merged danger like Cormorant Rocks it
wouldn’t be so bad. But to slam her head-
on into a damned island five hundred
feet high! ”
He buried his face in his hands.
Captain Johnstone refused to let up.
In the back of his mind was a half-
formed theory, and in spite of Stark’s
pleas he was going to prove or disprove
it. He studied the Palmyra’s chart and he
went carefully over all Walston’s entries
in the deck-log.
“I say it’s impossible. Stark,” he de-
clared at last.
For the first time since he boarded the
Orkabie Stark smiled, a ghastly
twisted caricature of a smile. “That’s
what I said,” he agreed. “It took me
quite a while to convince myself. But
she’s gone, Johnstone. I sat in the life-
boat and watched her go.”
“No, no.” Captain Johnstone tapped
the chart and the Palmyra’s deck-log with
his pencil. “I know she’s gone, but there’s
a lot here I don’t understand. Your
ship’s been averaging a steady ten knots,
she’s setting inshore, then suddenly her
speed jumps to more than twelve and she
crabs sideways for over a mile in the
opposite direction. How? Why?”
“A sudden change of current must
have caused it. They’re damned tricky
on that part of the coast. You know
that. And a lump of seaweed might have
been fouling the log. If it was heavy
enough it could stop it working for a few
miles, until it cleared itself.” Stark’s
tone was completely disinterested.
Plainly he wanted to close the subject.
“It’s possible,” Captain Johnstone
admitted. “But I still don’t believe it.
What about this mate of yours, Stark, this
chap Walston? Are you quite sure of
him?”
STARK ran a trembling hand through
his hair. “Look, Johnstone,” he said,
“I’ve told you I don’t like the man ; I
never did like him from the minute he
walked aboard. But I’ve got to give him
his due. He was a damned smart
navigator—as good as I’ve seen, and I’ve
seen a few. Another thing I’ve got to
admit is that after we struck he proved
himself a coOl, competent seaman. And
that’s more than I can say for myself.”
“Right. I’ll take your word for that.
Now just supposing the Palmyra averaged
eleven knots during the whole of
Walston’s watch. Current could have
accounted for that just as it could have
set her steadily out.”
“But it didn’t. Look at Walston’s
positions. Work her speed out for your-
self.”
“I have. But supposing Walston
deliberately faked those entries?”
Stark snapped rather irritably: “Don’t
talk rot, Johnstone, Why would any man
do a thing like that?”
“He might have had a very good
reason. Look at it this way. Your
Palmyra was an old ship. She must have
been about due for a survey and a pretty
extensive overhaul?”
“Overdue,” Stark admitted, “We were
to dry-dock after this voyage.”
“It would cost your owners a nice
packet, wouldn’t it? Oh, I know they’ve
treated you well, Stark. You’re of
boasting about them, but you must admit
they’ve got a shady reputation. If they
did decide the Palmyra wasn’t worth the
money they’d have to spend on her and
they wanted to get rid of her—for the
insurance—Walston would be an ideal
man for the job. He’s related to the firm
and he appears to have the brains and
the ability to put the thing over.”
“You’re letting your imagination run
away with you. That’s barratry, a
damned serious charge. Walston wouldn’t
be crazy enough to stick his neck out like
that.”
“Is he sticking it out? It seems to me
it’s your neck that’s sticking out. What’s
the court going to decide when they’re
told that you went to sleep after you
were called and that you were on the
bridge for nearly twenty minutes before
she struck? Walston could prove that he
rang ‘Stand by’ ready for slowing down
and that you slammed her back to ‘Full
Ahead.’ He’d tell ’em you altered the
course he had her on, and you’d plead
guilty to everything. You wouldn’t say
one word in your own defence. Your
very looks would damn you. Take a
look at yourself in that mirror.”
As if already feeling the blow falling
Stark fingered his neck tenderly. “You
needn’t rub it in,” he growled.
“I’m trying to wake you up,” Captain
Johnstone told him. “Trying to make you
do something to save yourself. If I’m
right in my guess that log was tampered
with. Someone moved the pointers back.
What about calling in the fellow who
read it at five-thirty? He might be'able to
help us.”
| N spite of Stark’s protests that the man
1 was the most unreliable witness in his
entire crew McMahon was sent for.
When he came shuffling in it was Captain
Johnstone who questioned him, doing his
best to put the little Irishman at ease.
“I don’t suppose you’d remember
what the log was showing the last time
you were sent to read it, would you?” he
asked,
“I do that.” McMahon’s tone was
truculent. “I’ll tell ye now, Cap’n, same
as I told that bloody mate at the time. It
was sixty-nine point six.”
“Aren’t you getting it mixed?”
Captain Johnstone suggested mildly. He
tapped Walston’s entry with his pencil.
“It’s shown here as sixty-six point nine.”
“I don’t give a damn what it says there.
That bloody mate calls me a liar and goes
off to check the thing himself. But I’ll
take my dyin’ oath I’m right. A man
might forget a lot o’ things, Cap’n, but
there’s one thing he don’t ever forget.
That’s his army number. I done three
years in the infantry back in nineteen-
fourteen, and me number was six-nine-
six-oh. You show me the old soldier
that’s forgotten his regimental number
and I’ll eat that there chart. As soon as
I shined the torch on that there log I says
‘six-nine-six. Tack a nought on to it and
that’s me, six-nine-six-oh Private P. J
McMahon.’ ” He shook his fist
indignantly. “And they try to tell me I
didn’t read the thing right! ”
Johnstone thanked the little Irishman
and let him go.
“Now then. Stark,” he said. “What
about my theory now?”
Stark shook his head sadly. “I’d like
to think you were right, but McMahon’s
word isn’t worth a damn. Besides, you’re
forgetting that I altered course. How
could Walston know I’d do that? How
could he know I wouldn’t slow down?”
“Give him credit for a few brains.
He’s known you for eighteen months,
time enough to find out all about your
bull-headed ways. The surest way to get
you to keep going at full speed was to
suggest slowing down. As for altering
course, it was the only seamanlike thing
to do—keep well clear of the submerged
danger and haul up for the island in the
hope of seeing it. If Walston’s positions
had been correct you couldn’t have hit
it.”
Drumming nervously on the arms of
his chair with shaking fingers, Stark asked
“Do you think there’s anything in this
army-number business?”
“I know there is.” Captain Johnstone
pressed the bell beside his desk. “My
steward was in the army. We’ll ask him.”
There was nothing military in the bear-
ing of the man who answered the bell.
He was round-shouldered, paunchy and
completely bald. His pallid face showed
surprise when his captain asked “What
was your army number, Morton?”
“Seven-two-nine-six, sir.” The answer
was prompt. And then, after a moment’s
hesitatipn, “Was there something you
were wanting, sir?”
“No thanks, Morton, Captain Stark
was just saying that a man couldn’t be
expected to remember his number for
twenty or thirty years. I disagreed with
him.”
“You’re right, sir,” the steward said.
“That’s one thing a man don’t ever
forget.”
HE had scarcely left the room before
Stark was on his feet, “You’re
right, Johnstone,” he roared. “Of course
you’re right.” Color surged to his cheeks
as he clamped his mouth and thrust out
his jaw. It was like seeing a corpse come
to life. Gone was the listless sagging of
those big shoulders, gone was the vacant,
hopeless glare. He banged his clenched
fist down on the desk with a mighty
crash. “It’s barratry, by God! That
damned Mediterranean Jew piled her up.
He put that log back nearly three miles.
He faked those positions. Called me!
He never came near me. He made damn’
sure I wasn’t called until you couldn’t
see half a ship’s-length ahead.” This was
the old Stark talking, arrogant,
completely assured and full of fight.
“You see his game, Johnstone? He
was going to hang the blame on me. On
me! You know my reputation. Every-
one knows it. In all the years; I’ve been
at sea I’ve never so much as scratched a
bit of paint off my ship. Get Mr.
bloody Walston up here. I’ll show him
he can’t put a thing like that over me.”
What a typical Stark outburst! How
quickly he had recovered when he saw a
means of clearing his name. His name
and his precious reputation! Nothing else
mattered. The loss of his ship meant
nothing to him.
Captain Johnstone stood up. He had
achieved what he set out to do. Instead
of brokenly pleading guilty and taking
the blame for everything, Stark would
now face the court of inquiry full of
confidence. He’d sway his judges by th®
very force of his convictions. Whether
the court would actually convict Walston
was another matter. The evidence against
him was flimsy at best. It might take
more unorthodox methods to extract a
confession from a man who had
deliberately piled a ship up. That was
entirely up to Stark, Taking in the
squared shoulders and the grim ex-
pression on Stark’s weather-beaten face,
Captain Johnstone grinned broadly. The
matter, he felt, was in good hands.
“I’m due on the bridge, Stark,” he said.
“I’ll send Mr. Walston up here and you
can use my cabin for the interview. All
I ask is that you replace any furniture
you break.”
KOSCIUSKO CAR TRIP.
It is unusual, friend, this soft excite-
ment,
Like the purr of the motors in the ears,
so quiet,
Yet full of power and meaning for the
requital
Of a hunger for beauty. Indeed, sir,
this is the diet.
Windows like ice between us and the
mountains;
Blue icebergs in a choppy strait of
trees;
Strangely, a lack of foam, and pitch-
black waters:
A peril, be sure, to travel such des-
perate seas.
But we, with the favor shown Jonah,
in belly of car
Like leviathan, shoot from the deeps to
dazzle the skies;
Soon to forget our progress, when,
sighting a sail,
The first snowpeak rears astonishment
for the eyes.
Parallax makes this a journey through
riotous seas.
The sail now dips before us and is gone.
Rising triumphantly out of the trough
of the valley,
Soon we shall see our mountain sails
steadfastly on.
QUEENSLAND.
Bearing down on our course, sir, immi-
nent now;
Here is a ship, at last, will dispatch
our whale.
Piled round the rocks' black decks the
thawing snow
Is draped with the white abandon of
lowered sail.
No longer paramount here, the sea’s
first creature,
Look how our car, whale-like, insignifi-
cant seems
Under this mountain of canvas. A
giant ship, sir.
Larger than any imagined in your
dreams.
So we nudge at her timbers; beneath
, the rigging.
Look up to sight the brilliance high
overhead.
If we are lucky, we’ll watch her canvas
snowstorm
As she takes in her sail—an omen that
whales should dread.
But it is over, our danger. This was
no ship.
You must forgive our fancy. It all
seemed like that.
Although it’s the day of screws, and not
of great winds.
This snow—like a sail—was something
to wonder at.
JOHN BLIGHT


■
mm
Wise
country wives
Jin-isc
Good lighting—cool, quick
cooking efficient heating:
Aladdin makes these city
comforts easily available for
country homes. Decide now
to "Aladdin-ise" your home
with these efficient, easy-to-
use Aladdin ke'rosene
products.
h
Home is
Mfitet
ALADDIN
MANTLE LAMPS
Light at the touch
ol a match —no
pumping, smoke or
odour. 75 candle
power. Your Aladdin
dealer has a full
range of styles.
r-
9
M
WARMTH
WHERE ITS WANTED
No need to shiver in winter! A
non-pressure Aladdin Blue-Flame
Heater fills the whole room with
cosy warmth. Easily carried from
room to room. Burns ordinary
kerosene without smoke or odour.
H
« bb s£^s«b»
> i
COOKS AND HEATS!
In winter it's a glowing radiator—
in summer an efficient cooker!
The Aladdin pressure - kerosene
Heater-Cooker is a dual-purpose
appliance you'll use all the year
round. Adjustable flame, detach-
able heat-reflector.
THERE ARE AUTHORISED ALADDIN
DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL CITIES,
SUBURBS AND COUNTRY TOWNS
THROUGHOUT THE COMMON-
WEALTH.
Aladdin
KEROSENE APPLIANCES
ALADDIN INDUSTRIES Pty.ltd
BOURKE ST., WATERLOO N S.W.
63/141.18
dsf
dsf
BAB COCK-DETROIT
SPREADER STOKER
m
TOP—Side view of Babcock-Detrolt
BotoStoker with power dumping
grate.
BOTTOM view of Bab-
cock-Detroit BotoStoker.
For Medium and
Moderate Sized
Industrial Installations
The Babcock-Detroit Roto-
Stoker is supplied with
either hand or mechanically
operated dumping grate,
and is employed mainly for
medium and moderate
sized industrial installations.
This stoker has been
demonstrated as capable of
handling a very wide range
of fuels, including bitum-
inous, sub-bituminous coals
and lignites, brown coal
and mixtures of coke and
coal.
One of its main advantages is its suitability in plants
where the type or quality of coal delivered varies from
time to time.
As suppliers of all types of firing equipment, whether
for pulverised fuel, v oil fuel, other mechanical types of
stokers, or any other known firing method, Babcocks
have the experience necessary to advise on the right
equipment most suitable and economical to your needs.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS • - REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Office* and Agendas in all States
If any illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
%
7m
*
•'WvllS
V/
C
in
mi
I
SAUCB
: /•'■•■
»s|
SSS W
****«) «> on-
mmm
HP
SAUCE
FOR THE
RETURN OF
LOST
APPETITES
ds
FLIGHT OF
SWANS
By GEOFF BINGHAM
MR. WHELAN is most
particular this morning
about his ablutions, more
so than on many occa-
sions. After a wash and a hard
rub-down with the rough towel
he dresses partly, discovers his
shiny suit which has long been
hidden and pressed beneath the
mattress, and puts it on. Then
he surveys himself in the mirror,
keenly, and for an old man is
quite satisfied, sure that the Jim
Whelan who stares back at him
is fit to meet the best.
And the best he may meet
before the day is ended. He
searches for the leaflet which was
slipped beneath his front-door,
and scans the items which, any-
way, he knows by heart. The
first is “VJ Events,” and he
has an especial snort for that.
since he has heard that VJs are
only tuppenny-ha’penny craft,
and not at all to be compared
with the past —that is, his, Jim
Whelan’s past.
But there it is, advertised and
claiming authenticity—“ Monster
Regatta and Carnival” —the sug-
gestion of gaiety, the insistence
of enjoyment, color, noise, ex-
citement and entertainment.
Already his blood begins to
warm, his cheeks to flush a trifle,
but there is no time to waste,
so that he makes the tea and
boils an egg, and leaves a slice
of bread to toast itself on the
black hob of the stove.
Barely has he eaten the egg,
munched the toast and wiped
the excess butter from his lips
when he hears the bus racing
down the road, winding and
soaring around the bend, blurt-
ing in its exhaust-pipe and toot-
ing its horn as it reaches each
farmhouse and, finally, as it
reaches. Jim’s place, there is a
specially long toot, or so it
appears to Jim, who hurries from
the house down to the gate.
And there is the bus, terrify-
ingly so, since Jim rarely emerges
from bis seclusion. If he is
fresh-faced, so are fifty other
children, farmers and timber-
men. The young ones gaze a
trifle awfully at him because
they have already woven a
legend about him, A few of the
adults nod, then avert their heads
slightly and continue talking
about the weather, the crops, the
last dance at the Hall, and the
new people in Jim Brown’s old
place. Only the very old ones
seem prepared to talk to Jim? but
Ned, who is impartial in all his
judgments, friendly to all, and
the driver of the bus, has a
warm “Hullo there, Jim” for
Mr. Whelan, as though he is
proud to welcome, of all people
he has ever welcomed into his
bus, this one Mr. Whelan. This
cheers Jim a trifle, whisks away
his self-consciousness, places him
upon a seat while the bus sings
and changes its gears, sings
again, and is away to the
Monster Regatta and Carnival.
COLOR! There never was
the like of it. Flags flying,
banners waving, sails adorned
with remarkable devices, and
then the ceaselessly-mingling
brightness of the women, be-
frocked, or in shorts, and some,
even, in bathing-costume. The
steady volume of noise quiets
Jim’s nervousness as the bus
draws to a standstill. He pays
his two shillings and is swallowed
by noise, crowd and color. A
man at a chocolate-wheel shouts
at him “Sixpence for a pound,”
but Jim reckons that can wait
until later, good as it sounds.
The crowd throngs about him,
swallows up his old habit of
keeping to himself, yet, in a
manner, binds him even closer to
his loneliness. For a fleeting
moment he wishes he had not
come.
[Then he stands at the old
broken wharf and stares out on
to the blue water. He thinks, then,
that there is nothing so sooth-
ing, anywhere, as blue water,
water which ripples softly in the
sun, which beckons merrily with
white gleams of sheer delight,
and which is altogether inde-
pendent of the flow of humanity.
About a half-mile across is
the bar of golden sand, a long
smooth wall enclosing the stretch
along which the regatta is to be
run. A buoy or two moves idly
and a speedboat shatters the
silence of the water, roaring and
tearing through white foam,
assuring everyone there has
never been other than sheer en-
joyment in this world.
The VJs swing into line, twist
and turn about the buoys to
show their flimsy prettiness to
the watching crowd. A voice
booms from the amplifiers giv-
ing them their handicaps and
their places. “Eastern Butterfly,
you have fifty-five seconds, you
have fifty seconds. Forty-five.
Forty.” The voice drones, almost
drugging the old man as he
watches. He remembers the
eighteen-footers that floated
along here, great white beauties,
indifferent to the excited crowds
which had so eagerly followed
their progress. Now, only these
flimsies. He is slightly sorrow-
ful,
jULLO. Jim! Fancy see-
fling you here, eh?” It is
burly George Harrap, and Jim
is damned if he has seen George
for nearly twenty years, although
it took him only a second to
recognise him.
“Well, George,” he says, no
signs of astonishment, no flurry,
calm as a man with a pipe in
his mouth. “Fancy you here,
George. Never expected you.”
Unconsciously he is playing host
to George, as though, perhaps,
he has arranged the very day,
and was wondering whether or
not George would accept his in-
vitation.
George says very little. He
was, for a moment, going to ex-
plain to Jim his prosperity, the
change from the old days of
bullocking, but looking at Jim
he is a trifle wistful, and the
magic of the past claims him,
and the present, prosperity and
all, is not a patch upon it.
After a time he says, “Re-
member that wharf, Jim?''
much as one might remember
Canterbury Cathedral before
the bombings.
Jim nods his head. “Re-,
member it, George?” he says
genially. “There was timber
there in those days.”
“Timber,” says a voice and
they turn to see Charlie Hodges.
“I pulled tallowwood that was
thirteen-six around the girth.”
“So you did, Charlie,” says
George in warm confirmation.
“We all did.” He points to the
still water on which are skim-
ming the VJs, like so many
butterflies. “That there water
was heavy with timber.”
“The mill was there,” says
George, pointing to a high hil-
lock of couch-grass.
“Sawdust under there,” says
Charlie. “I bet if you kicked
that it’d be sawciust.”
“The stuff used to leave that
there wharf,” says Jim, happily,
but, albeit, solemnly. “Corn and
pigs and the timber.”
George, for all his property,
suddenly discovers a truth.
“With all their fancy wages and
prices today, Jim,” he says, “I
(Continued on page 32.)


BRANDTS World Famous
ENGLISH "TILLEY" Lighting Appliances
BRANDTS Famous “Tilley’'
Kerosene Stormproof Lantern
gives a brilliant white light
of 300 c.p. Strongly made.
A lamp of true British crafts-
manship. Safe and
e asy to operate
86/-
BRANDTS latest “Tilley” Kero-
sene Table Damp, with most
attractive parchment Shade.
Gives a brilliant white light of
300 c.p. Is easy and OO /„
safe to use. 16ain. high. /
34in. high, £5/9/-.
spare parts stocked. Mail orders receive immediate attention.
BRANDTS Pty. Ltd.
APPLIANCE
SPECIALISTS
SINCE 1878.
371 PITT STREET
- PHONE M 4651
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO WALTER K. BUCHANAN formerly
of 17 First Street Blackrock in the State
of Victoria but now of parts unknown. —
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you and VERA C.
DALE of 8 Carr Street Elsternwick in
the County Court at Melbourne 1950 No.
of Plaint 1604 by WINIFRED O’KEEFE
of 46 Barnett Street Kensington in the
said State WHEREBY you are summoned
to appear at the County Court to be
holden at Melbourne on the third day of
July 1950 in which action the Plaintiff
Winifred O’Keefe claims of you and each
of you the sum of £149 for damages for
the negligent driving of a motor car by
you on the 28th January 1949 and it has
been ordered that notice of the said action
be given to you by publication of this
advertisement. —W. H. JONES &
KENNEDY, Solicitors, 213 Nicholson
Street, Footscray.
TO WALTER K. BUCHANAN formerly
of 17 First Street Blackrock in the State
of Victoria but now of parts unknown.
—TAKE NOTICE that an action has
been commenced against you and VERA
C. DALE of 8 Carr Street Elsternwick in
the County Court at Melbourne 1950 No.
of Plaint 1603 by ALEXANDER O’KEEFE
of 46 Barnett Street Kensington in the
said State WHEREBY you are summoned
to appear at the County Court to be
holden at Melbourne on the Third day
of July 1950 in which action the Plain-
tiff Alexander O’Keefe claims of you and
each of you the sum of £94 3s. 6d. for
damages for the negligent driving of a
motor car by you on the 28th January
1949 and it has been ordered that notice
of the said action be given to you by
publication of this advertisement.—W. H.
JONES & KENNEDY, Solicitors, 213
Nicholson Street, Footscray.
The Lovely
. Peach Lamp Shade
Polished Brass & Cream Metal Parts
TILLEY TABLE LAMPS
ARE AVAILABLE IN TWO SIZES
T.L. 106 “THE QUEEN” 2IJ" High
T.L. 136 “THE PRINCESS” I6J" High
TILLEY™. LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Lamps with
the Happy Mantle!
MANUFACTURED ONLY
AT HENDON, ENGLAND
BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
fd
Manufacturers * Representatives
T. H- BENTLEY (PTY) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l
SUNDRY SHOWS
Dunlop Art Prize.
The Dunlop Rubber Company
0 f Australia set an excellent
precedent, which, it was hoped,
mieht be followed by other
organisations, by offering £850
in prizes to Australian artists
for paintings (other than por-
traits) in oils, watercolor or any
other permanent medium. Sixty
of the 700-odd pictures sub-
mitted are hanging at the
Stanley Coe Gallery, Melbourne,
Unfortunately, the results are
thoroughly disappointing; in
fact, it would be difficult to
imagine a more mediocre collec-
tion of the fashionable stereo-
types of the moment, from the
winning picture by Sydney
Kolan to the minor prizes.
It might have been far better
if the Dunlop people had made
the selections themselves—they
couldn’t have done worse, and
they might have done far better,
because, not being in the art
world, they wouldn't be so deter-
mined by art fashions as a body
of official judges. Cosimo de
Medici and Lorenzo the Magni-
ficent, the two great art patrons
of the Renaissance, wouldn’t
have asked a National Gallery
director or a professor at the
University of Florence to make
their minds up as to whether
Michelangelo, Titian or Tin-
toretto were good artists —they
would have backed their own
fancy. Being individuals them-
selves, they would know that a
professor of fine arts or a gallery
director wouldn’t be such if he
were a significant artist.
None of the great artists of
the past were ever appointed to
such posts, and Velasquez wasn’t
an exception. He was a sort
of court usher, not the court
painter, and the only reason
King Phillip got him to paint
his portrait was because he liked
him. The Dunlop people prob-
ably thought that the officials
were the experts, regardless of
the fact that officials of the past
have always plumped for the
fashionable artists of the day,
never for the Rembrandts,
Corots, Manets, Renoirs or Van
Goghs, whom officialdom re-
garded as rank outsiders.
The so-called “modern idiom”
is the fashion of the moment in
official circles. What is the
“modern idiom,” it might well
be asked. Is it Esperanto? Well,
if a writer has something to
express, he can express it just
as well in Esperanto as in Eng-
lish, and if he has nothing to
express an idiom won’t help him.
That disposes of idioms. And
the same argument disposes of
the claim made that Mr. Nolan’s
landscape is good because it
expresses the true spirit of Aus-
tralia. Perhaps it would have
done that better if it had had
Ned Kelly in it, but it hasn’t
even got that. It is what appears
like a bird’s-eye view of a range
of arid mountains against a blue
sky, and looks like a colored
photo of a heap of crumpled
iron. Why does that express the
spirit of Australia more than a
painting of a bowl of flowers
or a nude girl? Because the
subject is a bit of Australian
geography? It isn’t like any-
thing in Australia, whereas a
picture of chrysanthemums or a
nude would be if it were painted
by a competent artist.
There isn’t any indication in
the exhibition that the judges
were seeing the pictures except
in terms of some current
fashion. That is all there is
to it, despite other acid sug-
gestions in certain disgruntled
circles. They obviously liked the
pictures they selected, but the
question arises, what were they
liking? Were they liking some
aesthetic quality in the pictures
or did the pictures merely sym-
bolise something for them, just
as the latest hat from Paris
symbolises modernity for a
flapper? When the fashion
changes won’t these pictures
look as dowdy to the next lot
of official judges as last year’s
hat does to the flapper? The
pictures fashionable in the ’nine-
ties don’t fetch sixpence at
Christie’s these days, but a sculp-
ture by Phidias or a Rembrandt
self-portrait is never out of
fashion. It is as fresh and modern
today as when it was carved or
painted.
If the Dunlop people decide
to make another handsome ges-
ture, it is to be hoped that they
won’t let officialdom get between
them and the artists of Australia,
but make their own selection.
F.S.
"The Chinese Lantern."
The artistic twilight is draw-
ing in when the artist celebrates
himself; we have had two
parables of this fading part of
time in Sydney recently: “The
Sunken Bell” (Sydney Inde-
pendent), in which Hauptmann’s
artist, following his career, drives
his wife to suicide; and “The
Chinese Lantern” (Sydney Metro-
politan), in which Laurence
Housman’s artist, Tikipu, dis-
covers that only through the
love of the slave-girl Mee-Mee
can he become a great painter.
You can take your pick.
But if the plays leave us up
in the air with the philosophy of
art and love, they make interest-
ing contrasts of method. Thus
the effects of “The Sunken
Bell” were mainly of the acting
and the situation, whereas the
main effect of “The Chinese
Lantern” was mechanical: the
picture into which the old
Chinese painter stepped upon its
completion, the lantern in it that
glowed,, the sage (Rolf Bartik)
who reappeared behind it, and
encouraged Tikipu to walk
through it with him for a three-
year course in art —beautifully
worked, worth going to see.
Again, the songs in “The
Sunken Bell” gained intensity
from the situation, whereas
those sung by Mee-Mee (Lorna
Orchard) were just pretty songs.
Thus it would be unfair to say
that Miss Davidson sang better
in “The Sunken Bell” than Miss
Orchard did in “The Chinese
Lantern” ; but it would be fair
to say that on the whole the
versified sections of “The
Chinese Lantern” might have
gained from being better spoken
—a good hard swat-and-pause
on every rhyme and at the end
of each line is not to be despised.
Tikipu (Robin Lovejoy) might
have learned a bit from Peter
Sainthill’s superb rendition of
“The Ballad of the Bell.”
However Kevin Brennan, as
Yunglantsi, the fat booby son
of the arts-master Olangtsi
(James Marsh) and of Mrs.
Olangtsi (Margaret Feather-
stone) put on a study of a spoilt-
baby wailing that must have
been studied from every spoilt
baby who ever wailed —the
mouth stretched wide across the
face and down at the corners,
the tears, and hen, after a
threatening inteiVal, the heart-
broken moans; Yunglantsi, it
seems, ached to be a grocer, but
it had been prophesied that who-
ever married the Korean slave-
girl Mee-Mee would become a
great artist, and therefore the
managing Mrs. Olangtsi had de-
cided that it must be her son.
Mr. Brennan gave his part that
perfect stylisation which the
other parts lacked; Margaret
Featherstone had it in her voice,
but not in her movements;
Owen Weingott made a perfect
Sydney larrikin Rag and Bone
Merchant, but did not manage
to subdue the character to the
lightness of the play —Jack
Hoysted was slightly better, as
his brother, the moneylender—
and the styne might be said of
the excellent teamwork of the
young students and apprentices.
It was a pretty play, which could
hardly come to perfection with-
out a graceful stylisation of every
word and gesture.
A.B.C. Vocal and Con-
certo Competition.
The valuable encouragement
to young Australian singers and
instrumentalists which these
competitions give is now result-
ing in a crop of talent which is
making a hard job for the
judges, as William James and
Dr. Edgar Bainton found when
they were given the job of
naming the winners of the
N.S.W. State finals at Sydney
Town Hall last Thursday night.
The standard was high, the
highest it has yet reached.
There were three pianists,
three baritones and a violinist.
With the baritones it was easy
money to pick the winner—
Trevor Lewis put his two rivals,
Ashley Aitcheson and William
Gates, in the shade with an
artistic yet spirited version of the
“Vision Fugitive” from “Her-
odiade.” His voice has fine
resonance, good carrying power
over the orchestra and quite a
respectable range.
Ronald Woodcock, the fiddler,
conjured a nice tone, but the
first movement of the Elgar Con-
certo lacked finesse, though he
was game to tackle so exacting
a work. Of the three pianists
Richard Bonynge seemed to this
commentator to do remarkably
well in the Liszt Concerto No. 1
—he played the Adagio beauti-
fully and massed his tones else-
where with fine judgment; but
the judges decided that Enid
Strong, who played the
maestoso from the Bcahms D
Minor concerto, with dynamism,
just had the edge on him, Joy
Cross played the Liszt Concerto
No. 2.


m
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WAUtER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH /
y WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK, /
\ SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY, /i
JW.1278.1S
Missing Friend.
TO CHARLOTTE MAUD CARMAN for-
merly of 18 Maddern Grove Burnley in
the State of Victoria but now of parts
unknown married woman.—T A K E
NOTICE that your husband JOSEPH
EDWARD CARMAN has instituted divorce
proceedings against you on the ground of
desertion UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the Deputy Prothonotary’s Office
of the Supreme Court of Victoria in Gee-
long on or before the Ist day of July 1950
and file an answer in the said office on or
before the Bth day of July 1950 the case
may proceed in your absence.—D. P. F.
O’KEEFE & CO.,i 100 Ryrie Street. Gee-
long, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
FASTEST
to LONDON I
m
BCPA
i
ONLY DAYS*
via AMERICA
CNO DOLLARS NEEDED)
sengers —BCPA s fare .*
special dollar allowance for meals
and accommodation. Trave 9
rCPA you see Honolulu and
fabutous cities of North America,
and over the "Southern Cross
route you enjoy the luxunow com
fort of the sleeper-equipped DC 6.
For no additional fare, you may
break your |ourney at any p
along the route.
* Actual elapsed flat* only 77 W.
45 mins.
sf
TO UNITED KINGDOM
S I NG L E £325
return £585
f Departures , evef from you'
Saturday. Full P ar t ticu ' a / S a „ y airline
local travel ogen/, Agents:
booking office, f eneraj Sales a d
V ’"'
Bk/ 2747.
df
df
df
The “Australia First” Affair
By "EK DUM"
[This is the second of two
articles giving the history of a
miscarriage of justice which
shocked Australia.]
Mr. F. M. Forde made it clear
to Parliament on March 26,
1942, that the 20 “Australia
First” prisoners who had been
interned were behind barbed-
wire because of their part in a
conspiracy to welcome the
Japanese, to overthrow the Aus-
tralian Government, to com-
pletely hamstring the defence of
the country and to carry out
wholesale pogroms of public
men, Jews and denominational
heads.
It came out subsequently at
the inquiry into the cases that
the Government had informa-
tion not later than March 20, five
days earlier, to satisfy it that no-
body in Sydney was connected
with the Westralian conspiracy,
concocted in conjunction with
the Security Department’s Com-
m u n i s t agent - provocateur,
Thomas. Yet the Minister issued
an order under Regulation 26
commanding the internment of
the lot, and the Prime Minister,
Mr. Curtin, and Mr. Forde,
Minister for the Army, gave the
House of Representatives an en-
tirely baseless assurance that
there was a prima facie case
against all of them in regard to
the conspiracy, and that all
would be tried.
Tried in their absence they
had been already, and convicted
by the Government and the
Communist party, which im-
mediately began to connect the
names of the Liberal and Copn-
try-party leaders with the in-
terned men, especially Mr.
Spender, whom the Communists
pursued with a black-snake
hatf&d because of his internment
of the two convicted Communist
officials Ratliff and Thomas.
Only the four “puny conspira-
tors” in Western Australia who
had plotted with the Govern-
ment’s curious agent to take over
the country —and who had no
connection with the Sydney Aus-
tralia First men —were now
tried. They were put in the
dock, three miserable men and
a woman, under guard of fixed
bayonets. But only two out of
the four, Bullock and Williams,
were found guilty, and Quicke
and Miss Krakaouer were ac-
quitted, despite the evidence of
Thomas, the Government’s agent.
Notwithstanding the dictum of
Dr. Evatt in the Ratliff and
Thomas (Communist) cases that
Australian-born citizens should
not have been detained except
upon conviction after trial,
Quicke and Krakaouer were
immediately interned after their
acquittal. And Bullock and
Williams, whose case was on all
fours with that of Ratliff and
Thomas, in that they had served
their sentences, were interned
after their release, again in direct
opposition to Dr. Evatt’s views
expressed in the case of the two
convicted Communists.
However, an agitation began
for the release of - the Sydney
Australia First internees. It was
resisted by the Labor Govern-
ment, which held to its victims
like grim death. One of them,
Corporal Downe, was serving his
internment in uniform of the
A.I.F. Immediately he was in-
terned he demanded an Army
court-martial, but the Army
could find nothing to court-
martial him for, so it retained
him on its strength and in its
uniform and he drew his pay all
the time he was interned.
Eventually Dr. Evatt, return-
ing from the United States, took
Security affairs into his hands
once more. Under irresistible
public pressure he released cer-
tain of the internees after their
affairs had been considered
by a tribunal which he had
previously said that he did not
approve and, in some cases, by
a special committee.
When these innocent men
were released they were not all
allowed to go to their homes.
Some were ordered into coun-
try towns where members of
Parliament and newspaper offices
would not be accessible to them.
Bath, a white-collar worker
and a diabetic, was manpowered
for laborer’s work on the wet
bottom of the Captain Cook
Graving Dock, which was then
building, and it took some influ-
ence to rescue him,
An Inquiry Commission
After two years the Govern-
ment was compelled to grant an
Inquiry Commission on the cases.
This was designed by Dr. Evatt
on a basis which assured that
the real issues would be ob-
scured to a large extent and
narrowed down to a decision as
to whether the Minister was tech-
nically justified under the regula-
tions ; also whether it was
proper that any persons con-
cerned should receive compensa-
tion, but strictly on a legal basis,
irrespective of native justice.
The inquiry which followed
was one of the most remarkable
ever held in Australia. As a
preliminary to it Dr. Evatt made
a statement which constituted a
flagrant breach of all the prin-
ciples of justice as observed in
Australian and British courts.
He said:
The safety of Australian soldiers
and the Australian people would have
been placed in greater peril had their
agitation and propaganda been suc-
cessful... .Mr. Justice Clyne will, I
hope, carefully distinguish in his
report as to all individuals concerned,
directly or indirectly, in the leader-
ship of what was undoubtedly a
quisling, subversive, anti-Australian,
anti-British group prepared to
stab Australia in the back at the
moment of our greatest peril.
Had there been any truth in
this statement there would have
been no need for an inquiry. All
the material, if it had been true,
as Dr. Evatt, an ex-High Court
Judge, must have known all too
well, would have been available
for the trial of the leaders, since
under the Crimes Act persons
who set out to excite disaffection
against the Government or the
Constitution are guilty of sedi-
tious intention.
However, instead of his trying
the men in accordance with the
principles which he. had ex-
pressed (and still expresses) when
defending the rights of suspected
Communists, Dr. Evatt’s inquiry
proceeded.
The original pretence that the
men had been interned because
of their share in the Westralian
conspiracy, of which not one of
thdrn had even heard till after
his internment, was dropped
entirely.
In place of it a desperate, ex-
tensive and fantastic network of
general, allegations was put for-
ward which occupied 64 sittings.
Hooper’s Case
The evidence ran in several
channels. First there were police
reports, some of the most curi-
ous probably ever seen in an
Australian court. That on
Hooper, the retired Union Bank
inspector, is a typical example.
He had given largely to the
H.M.A.S. Sydney replacement
fund. He had subscribed to
war loans. He was a substantial
citizen. He was giving his ser-
vices to Air Raid Precautions
though he was 73 years old. He
was well known throughout the
country. He was an Australian.
A report by two police was
made on March 18, 1942, a week
after his arrest to expressly
justify his continued internment
after the myth about his alleged
connection with the Westralian
plot had been completely ex-
ploded. It stated that in his flat
they had seized papers, letters
and pamphlets. The report
added: —
These have now been carefully
perused by us... .Hooper, who is in
affluent circumstances, is anti-English,
anti-Empire and thoroughly disloyal.
His association with the late W. J.
Miles, an avowed enemy of the British
Empire, dates back to 1914 the
fact that Hooper has preserved letters
written between 1914 and 1918 by
W. J. Miles, an avowed enemy of
the Empire for such a lengthy
period, and that Miles, during this War,
continued to write to him in the same
strain, is a clear indication that
Hooper subscribes to and shares the
views held by his accomplice. In a
letter from Miles dated October 16,
1941, he declares: “I think the Ger-
mans will more or less win on land,
both in the Bast and West of
Europe”... .Nothing has been ob-
served in Hooper’s correspondence to
show that he disagreed in any way
with the views expressed. In fact,
there are numerous instances where he
made laudatory speeches concerning
Miles and his viewpoint. Hooper is
... .an elderly man, very active-minded,
and a fluent speaker, whose eloquence
could easily sway public opinion
We consider that the interests of this
country would be best served by his
detention, as we firmly believe that
no other form of restriction is
adequate nor will it stop his anti-
British prating.
The very bias and lack
of specific charges would have
been expected to make any fair-
minded Minister pause before he
interned this innocent old man on
such a report. But in he went.
When the police report came
to be examined much of it
proved to be arrant and inac-
curate rubbish. The letter about
the Navy supposedly written to
Hooper in October, 1941, by
Miles, a highly-placed and pros-
perous businessman who was
dead at the time of the arrests,
proved to have been written ac-
tually 27 years before —in 1914.
Hooper was not a fluent and
frequent speaker as alleged—he
had only one speech on record —
to the Summer School of
Political Science in 1938 —
and that so bad that he
never attempted another.
Various quotations from letters
selected by the police, who were
so anxious to “stop Hooper’s
anti-British prating,” proved to
be misquotations or detached
from the text in a way which
altered their inferences, A sur-
mise which they made that he
had served with the German
forces under the German
General von Waldersee in the
Boxer 'rebellion —he was a sub-
inspector of the Union Bank —
was received with hilarious
laughter. And the view of W.
J. Miles, that “avowed enemy of
the Empire” (and the Com-
munists), which the police
described as "definitely defea,;.,
and as such constitute n
danger to the morale of the™ V ®
mumty during this
Mlles had then been dead♦ "
months-was illustrated OQ Z
outbreak of World War n
by a letter signed by Milesl;
the police themselves put f?
ward with their conchSJ[ n ‘
their report to the Minister
Written to Hooper and Hat J
September 26, 1939, it aid
is 1 nnwiUing'tat X S E “i*™
voluntarily give Britain aid I
to enforced (or conscrinted\ .I 0 ! 601
I think wotlcP show ut
treme disloyalty if they Icfc ?
81V ?h any a l d; that Would I til 0
a thorough proof of our k ’
deterioration, and would presaS Z
community downfall. TW S v OUr
nephew wish to contract out oUhe
Empire when Britain puts us imn
war? Our colonial contract is a
peace and war contract, and Britain's
King is our King. I don’t undeSd
your nephew. li,la na
The Judge found Mr. Hooper
completely innocent—“he was
intensely Australian... .1 cannot
find that he acted in a mannej
prejudicial to Australia and the
Empire.”
Yet he had been interned in
the dead of night without reason
given, thrust into a hospital
under bayonet guard with enemy
aliens when ill, and when he was
released, under public pressure
because it was found that there
was no excuse to hold him
longer, he was routed out of bed
at his flat where he lay ill at
2.30 one morning and (on Dr.
Evatt’s personal order) to leave
at once for Picton, 50 miles from
Sydney—where he could not
easily reach politicians and the
Press and where his mail could
be checked.
Next to police reports of the
kind made against Hooper came
exhibits consisting of extracts
from the movement’s journal-
extracts carefully selected, some-
times including only half a
sentence, but not including
patriotic articles published on
the outbreak of war, after which
every word which it printed was
passed by the censor. It was
not banned even when its owners
were arrested.
The Yabber Club
Then there came the reports
of coffee-house conversations. It


V-
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
details AND
PRICES ON
application
THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
ct high-priced Imported
machines at only a trac-
tion o) their cost. The
■"National" Rotary DupU
color will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built untitaly tm Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
J^^ BT ■> C- PwltM A C.. Pl>. U 1
•ULBOURNB , Harman Broa. Pi,, Lid.
PeS^ 11 * 8 * Vardoo * San, Lid.
U -» Dookol Book Co. (AulJ
THE LIBERAL ROAD
Vernon Treatt, MM., K.C «
State Liberal Party
Leader
TO RURAL
PROSPERITY
!*»■
C's/'?.
Vk
-y/yr
/?/
We will restore power of government to the country man!
• Repeal the iniquitous Socialist electoral laws which wiped out four country electorates.
• Give country folk a chance to restore Local Government bodies destroyed by Socialists.
• Give you, the man on the spot, a say in the development of this State.
TRANSPORT & FREIGHT, w.
%
improve the railway freight service to
avoid the accumulation of primary produce
at sidings,
ROADS. Provide adequate finance for
road development and maintenance.
HEALTH. Build well-equipped hospitals,
each with its own Maternity Block • Intro-
duce travelling Dental, Medical and Baby
Health Clinics • Create Area Diagnostic
Clinics.
COAL. Increase coal production of this
State to ensure a steady supply of urgently
needed materials and equipment.
LAND TENURE. Make available Closer
Settlement Blocks on perpetual lease-hold
tenure, with the right of conversion info
freehold.
HOUSING. Encourage and assist building
by private enterprise and owner-builders
• Produce special pre-cut housing units for.
rural areas.
EDUCATION. Where parents approve,
set up central schools • Establish hostels
• Introduce free transport for country
school children.
FORESTRY. Hand in hand with timber-
getting for home building, inaugurate a
wise policy for re-afforestation.
This plan is backed by a sound Industrial Policy to ensure a
constant flow of essential goods to the country man
FOR HONEST GOVERNMENT
VOTE
I
Liberal
ON POLLING DAY— Saturday, 17th June
Authorised by J. L. Car rick, 30 Ash Street, Sydney. f5.m.44
was the habit of half a dozen
or so people connected with
Miles and his friends to meet
once a week in the coffee-rooms
of a resort known quaintly as
the Shalimar Cafe. They had
no chairman and no rules, but
they came to refer to themselves
humorously and for obvious rea-
sons as the Yabber Club.
Anybody could join them and
take part when they discussed
birth-control, soil erosion. Hitler
or the war.
Some people did join them —
remarkable fellows who
presently appeared in the wit-
ness-box before Mr. Justice
dyne, with Crown counsel sup-
porting their anonymity with a
request for an order that their
names be not published because
they were engaged in important
work for Intelligence—in one
case, as it transpired, in the uni-
form of the American Red
Cross.
The so-called Australia
Firsters heard these mysterious
persons swear to their ability to
dive into the melee of the coffee-
house discussions, listen for two
hours or so to the argument and
then go out into the clean street
air and write down exactly and
without mistake what had been
said and by whom for report to
the Security Department.
An astonished old businessman
whose home was the H.Q. of the
local air-raid centre when he
was taken away in the darkness
of dawn to be interned, a mag-
nate with a stake worth many
thousands of pounds in Aus-
tralia, heard repeated as justi-
fication for his incarceration
without trial —or even on
specific charges a remark
which he had made, over
his coffee a couple of years be-
fore during a discussion of
League of Nations figures on
probable population decline,
that “England was beggared.”
It was successfully held up as a
justification for “putting him
in.”
Any bull-like voice raised
above the cafe din uttering dis-
like for the monarchy or a de-
sire for Australian independence
of Britain had its emanations
ticketed away and used against
the utterer two or three years
afterwards by the Common-
wealth’s sleuths. And a shocked
Labor Minister, endorsed by an
A.L.P., two of whose trustees
had once been senior officials
of the Communist party which
under their management had
printed matter infinitely worse
than the sudden exclamatory
petulances of the alleged Aus-
tralia Firsters, felt himself justi-
fied in interning without trial
anybody guilty of any things
which proved the author to be
(in coffee-house) not a King-and-
Empire man and who had shown
friendship for Japan before
Pearl Harbor.
The later operations of the,
Yabber Club towards the period
of the Japanese offensive unfor-
tunately were not chronicled,
since the guile and knowledge
of Australian Intelligence did
not prove equal to following a
transfer of the venue of the dis-
cussions from the Shalimar re-
sort to a tea-house known as
Ann’s Pantry.
Dr Evatt Not Supported
Mr. Justice Clyne found that
eight men of the 16 who were
interned were completely inno-
cent and that their internment
was not justified, By that time
one of them, a wounded mili-
tary medallist of World War I,
had died, largely from the effects
of his internment.
He had been a peace officer
helping to guard Australia’s
largest official explosive factory
when arrested. It was never ex-
plained why, if the Security
lolice had been watching him
tor months, as they professed to
nave been doing, they allowed
im to remain in that position so
angerous to Australian defence
ngnt up to the moment of his
arrest. It was never explained,
enner, why this did not occur
to me Army Minister when he
considered the internment of
mis loyal and ailing returned-
soldier.
ihe general finding of Mr.
Justice Clyne did not support
Mr. ex-Justice Evatt s improper
announcement on the eye of the
®* ttin f 0 ♦.. e Commission that
ne Australia First men were a
subversive, quisling, anti-British
anti-Australian group prepared
to stab Australia in the back at
* . moment of her greatest
peril. He found:
• fonT th ai ? ls of - th t e move ment,
may perhaps beregaided “slSd-
mate propaganda, and not prejudicial
to Australia’s war effort, but it is
not unreasonable to suggest that the
organisation made its appearance at
gence, did not object to the manifesto,
But he found that the members*
of the movement were a
“strangely-assorted lot,” some
moved by inveterate hostility to
Britain and friendly to Japan —
there was no evidence that this
i aS f was true a fter the Jap war
broke opt. The men so involved
were not active members, and
the movement and most of those
interned obviously, from the evi-
dence, were certainly not
a ware of or associated with their
beliefs. The judge made it clear
that some members were “keen
a dvocates of Australian national-
i sm , and did not want an inde-
pen dent Australia, and were not
hostile to Britain or America or
friendly to Japan.”
He found that “having regard
to the views I have expressed, I
think that mere membership of
the Australia First Movement
was not sufficient to warrant a
person’s detention, and that
therefore it was necessary to
? onsider the case of each person
individually.” •
For the eight innocents who
were completely cleared the
j uc jg e recommended what small
and inadequate compensation it
was within his power to award,
Downed Case
Of the eight whose internment
was justified by the Judge —
strictly according to the regula-
tion—there was not a single one
against whom the Government
could have laid a charge in ac-
cordance with Dr. Evatt’s die-
turn, uttered when demanding
the release of the Communist
traitors Ratliff and Thomas, that
Australian citizens should not
be interned save when convicted
a t a trial.
And there was not one
against whom there was even a
prima facie case. But there was
one. Sergeant Downe, whose in-
ternment was held to be justified
hy the judge on the basis of the
Crown case. Yet he was com-
pletely innocent, and the
authorities knew him to be com-
pletely innocent when they were
justifying his internment before
the Commission. The Army had
so much confidence in him that
it had transferred him to the
Cipher Department on the
specific recommendation of the
Chief Military Intelligence
Officer in N. S. Wales at the
very time when he was being
maligned by the Crown before
the Commission. Dr. Evatt was
later forced to exonerate him.
The Real Issue
The point of the internments
does not rest on whether, to be
on the safe side, the Govern-
ment ordered the detention of
some of these persons. The
whole question resolves round
the obvious (but it is to be hoped
unjustified) ground for suspicion
that the Labor Government in-
stituted one law for the Labor
movement (including Com-
munists) and another for its
political opponents,
When fighting for the release
of the Communists Ratliff and
Thomas, Dr. Evatt took the view
that Australians should not be
interned without trial; in the
Australia First cases he took the
opposite view. Now when the
Communists are in danger
through the Communist-party
Dissolution Bill he has reverted
to the views which he expressed
on the Ratliff-Thomas business.


4---
More Phasu*
from Motor^
dsf
df
ds
fd
CORRECT tyre pressures mean more
than easier riding. They mean safety,
better control, less wear on tyres.
So check your tyre pressures regularly
with the accurate Kismet Tyre Gauge. . .
and when they need more air do the job
in half the time with a Kismet Foot Pump
or Renrut “Quad" Hand Pump. The
unique two-cylinder Supercharger action
makes every stroke unbelievably easy and
at full volume.
KISMET
y c/aimJei
\ •
>m fcr
-
Manufactured by
WILLIAM TURNER (Kismet)
LTD., Sheffield, England.
Agent in Australia :
MR. E. G. JONES,
43-49 Hardware St., Melb., C. 1.,
G.P.O. Box 71.
lAVMA
17-JEWELLED
SWISS MASTERPIECES
WITH THE
NON-MAGNETIC
ESCAPEMENT
>a6
Inf
lA¥MA
WATCHES
POUNDED 1853 * yUJLERCT. SUISSE
[&P
m
w
tM
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
EAST GERMAN ARMY.
All consideration of the Ger-
man problem (comments a
London “Daily Telegraph” cor-
respondent in Berlin) should
start from one definite fact—
that Soviet Germany now has
an army, while Western Ger-
many has not:
“History sometimes repeats
itself with painful obstinacy.
What Versailles forbade emerged
in the form of Nazi storm-
troopers and black guards ; what
Potsdam forbids is already here
in the shape of the Volkspolizei,
or People’s Police.”
There is, however, this differ-
ence: Nazi rearmament was a
slow and solitary process,
achieved partly in secret. To-
day’s East German rearmament
is an open phase of Russian
aggression with a tempo much
faster and a purpose more im-
mediately apparent:
“It is clear that the Volkspo-
lizei consists already of some-
thing like a quarter of a million
young men highly trained in the
use of modern automatic
weapons. They have their
artillery units using mortars,
anti-tank guns and heavy guns,
their armored units using Tiger
tanks, and their naval unit at
Schwerin.”
Apart from the direct military
significance, the quarter of a
million trained German soldiers
have another significance equally
important—as a symbol and a
challenge in the political field:
“With the power-worshipping
Germans, the disposal of armed
might is almost essential for
political prestige. It would be
a mistake to suppose that the
Volkspolizei are regarded in
Eastern Germany as an entirely
unwelcome perpetuation of Nazi
ways. The title of ‘People’s
Police,’ though part of the ready-
made jargon of the Cominform,
is not altogether a misnomer.
“The Volkspolizei are the
people’s police in the sense that
the people, in spite of every-
thing, are just a little proud of
them, and are glad to think that
German generals who served with
distinction in the war are tak-
ing part in their training.
“This dark-blue army has, in
fact, a distinct social significance.
It is the link between the State
and the half-million or so ‘Free
German Youth’ who under them
are learning auxiliary military
techniques and who see them-
selves as future builders of a
brave new Fatherland.
“Their watchword is ‘Peace,’
but words such as these have lost
their meaning here. The emo-
tions of the azure-shirted
columns are psychologically in-
distinguishable from those which
Hitler exploited so effectively
and so tragically.”
The Western Governments
have, of course, made the rather
tongue-in-cheek gesture of pro-
testing to Moscow about its
creation of this East German
army. What that really
amounted to, as London
“Times” commented, was put-
ting this question to themselves:
What is their own policy to be
(in regard to Western Germany)
in view of this dangerous breach
of the numerous Four-Power
agreements on the disarmament
of Germany?
• Eighteen months ago (the
“Times” records) “the Russians
began quite deliberately to form
the armed police units.... and
have been training them in
artillery, tank and infantry bat-
talions,” with their machine-
guns, howitzers, anti-tank guns
and tanks. On the other hand,
the West Germans have no force
whatever; even their ordinary
police are organised locally
within each province and not
on a general federal basis:
“Logically, therefore, if the
West Germans are to be given a
sense of security, the Western
Powers must either give the
Germans arms or be ready to
their own- forces in Ger-
many indefinitely. Perhaps as
an interim measure the Western
Powers could agree to let
Western Germany have its own
federal police with small arms,
but this development would not
affect the two main alternatives:
an armed force for Germany or
continued garrisoning.”
Arming the West Germans is
considered “not politically pos-
sible” for the present; at the
various Western meetings in
London recently “all the
Ministers appeared to agree that
there could be no question of
letting Germany rearm for as
far as could be seen ahead”:
“Put in another way, there
could be no question of it until
the Atlantic Pact and the
Brussels Pact were sufficiently
strong to remove any fears that
the German weight, might
swamp the boat or, at any rate,
upset the balance. The French,
above all, would not agree to
any German rearmament. That
being so, the Allies are left to
carry out their often expressed
determination to keep forces in
Germany as long as they are
necessary.”
,The “Times” points to one
conclusion which close observers
have pointed out before this —
that the Russian leaders are
probably playing a more
dangerous game than they are
aware of; that “By appealing to
German militarism they may
reap more than they sow.”
France, the Weak Link.
Some close observers of
France point to signs offering
hope for the future. Thus,
“Manchester Guardian’s” finan-
cial editor emphasises that “be-
hind the restless fa?ade of
political instability there has
been a remarkable economic re-
covery,” with industrial produe-
tion all round 25 per cent, higher
than it was in 1938 and practi-
cally on par with “the high level
of 1929.”
In this respect, in fact, “France
is emerging from her post-war
difficulties more quickly than
most observers would have ex-
pected a year or two ago.”
France as a link in Western
defences, however, is geherally
regarded as only too obviously
doubtful —for that very obvious
reason, the strength of its Com-
munist fifth-column. A special
correspondent of Edinburgh
“Scotsman” does report that “as
yet no Communism has entered
into the regiments” of the new
French Army, which, with the
U.S, arms now pouring into it, is
hopefully expected to be a good
fighting force even before the
end of next year. But few
other outside observers share
this optimism ; and, in any case,
against any early Soviet aggres-
sion they see France as a very
weak link, indeed.
“Today,” insists a London
“Sunday Times” staff writer,
“we have confronting us from
German bases a Russian army
and air force, each enormously
larger than Hitler’s; and be-
tween them and the Channel
coast lies nothing but a very
weak France —riddled with
Communism and defeatism.”
The Paris correspondent of
London “Economist” points out
that the Communist party with
its affiliated groups is the largest
element in the present French
Parliament:
“Its membership, although
much reduced since 1947, is still
probably half a million. It
controls the Confederation
Generate du Travail, by far the
strongest trade-union organisa-
tion. It has adherents in all
departments of French life:
scientists, lawyers, university
professors, civil servants, en-
gineers, doctors can be found
among them just as well as the
proletariat of the town, the
country and the docks. Prob-
ably the only profession without
Communists is the Catholic
Church ; and even there a few
demagogic priests act as apostles
of the Communist ‘peace.’ ”
Contending that “The exist-
ence on French Republican
territory of a large and senior
contingent of the Bolshevik
world cadre is not a matter that
can be shrugged off,” the corres-
pondent sums up that the
presence in the heart of Paris
ALL OVER AGAIN!
—“Die Weltwoche;” Zurich.
of various definite Communist
headquarters and of a hundred
and one “front organisations”
“is nothing less than a living
token of the spiritual schism in
French society. It is a sign, too,
that France, if it has preserved
democratic liberty, is no longer
a fully sovereign State.”
For the present, at any rate,
it seems to add up to a rather
doubtful fighting ally, to say the
least.
Malayan War.
M*t rri of && f *“ <0
Strachey and Colonial s* War
Griffiths, London 4£f ar y
Times suggests itv u lnaQ cial
what has
was recognised (or
. *V s tlf ne our rulers ,•« ‘~~
msed that we have a c V i ° B ’
on our hands in Malav! War
parable to the wars in la Conv
and Indo-Chinr No on o “l sia
more bitterly cHtin.J T has
colonial actions of
and the Dutch . nc h
Socialists. Itlf a
that they should now be tid!/
Malaya!”
Minister^ 01 " personally!” it 1
Sa^ or o r r! « *
Colonial Secretary, Mr. Griffiths
has been a passionate deno™s
of the capitalism which has
made Malaya the greatest of
Commonwealth dollar-earners.
[Chifley and other Australian
Socialists have echoed him, with
specific reference to Malaya.]
As for Mr. Strachey, there is no
need to say anything about his
record.”
Altogether, under the Attlees,
“The whole campaign in Malaya
has been scandalously ill-
managed because our hesitant


&
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST INSURANCE BROKERS
EFFECTING INSURANCES AT LLOYD’S
k EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY, LTD .
263 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY. BW 2131
And all other States
EL5.22.4
The nome ls.»
c
The uuhiskij is
51
3
I?
Ut
WWWWHHWIII
r|£
7T
6A
an old friend
is always a
pleasurable
/
occasion .
CLOSE WORK NEEDS
LOW SURFACE BRIGHTNESS, YET
HIGH LEVEL ILLUMINATION
memtSßmrnmmSm
w ' h I
RH
H H - .. . --«
>j
f*
mm
' >
am
m
'... '
BIPEfe&
>ss ’ -,
*-■* -
■ I
£1
hh
■
:>j*£
wm
. v-
£i* CtyeA, Speed Work teith
CLAUDE COLD CATHODE
The human eye is industry’s
most critical control device. Good
seeing conditions are, therefore,
just as fundamental to good
work as good tools, machines and
equipment.
To-day, Claude Cold Cathode
Fluorescent Lighting is regarded
by progressive management as a
production tool designed to pro-
mote product quality as well as
rate of output.
For restful vision, the eye needs
low surface brightness at normal
vision levels . . . even light distri-
bution with absence of shadows
and glare ... a comfortable detail-
revealing illumination level on all
working planes with good colour
discrimination.
There are other tangible benefits,
too lower lighting costs, low
maintenance. Your nearest Claude
office will be happy to tell you the
full story and give details of the
Claude Rental Plan, which avoids
necessity of incurring capital
expenditure.
FLUORESCENT
LIGHTING
NEON
DISPLAYS
PORCELAIN
ENAMEL
CLAUDE
fIEON LIMITED
SYDNEY - NEWCASTLE - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE ■ PERTH - HOBART - LAUNCESTON
authorities have tried to treat a
civil war as if it were a police
affair. The civilian prohibitions
to which our regular troops and
national servicemen have been
subject are ludicrous. The truth
is that the Government has con-
sistently underrated the strength
and the ferocity of the Malayan
insurgents.”
The Anti-Red Bill.
As already noted here, over-
seas comment opposing the
Menzies Government’s Anti-Red
Bill had such a run of the cable
columns that some were thereby
misled into thinking the entire
British Press had risen up on its
hind legs in defence of the
alleged rights of a self-avowed
fifth-column of an aggressive
foreign country.
As another example of the
overseas supporters, the “Scots-
man” (Edinburgh) commented;
“Mr. Menzies’s action raises
the wider issue of the toleration
of Communists in democratic
countries. Is it reasonable that
Communists should enjoy to the
full those democratic rights
which they have every intention
of destroying if they gain power?
Must the enemies of democracy
be given complete freedom to
undermine its institutions, so
long as they do not openly break
the law? Mr. Menzies has
decided to treat the Communists
as conspirators against the
security of the State, and in view
of their record in Australia he
has every justification for doing
so. Their objects are the same
in every country/ since they owe
allegiance to Moscow, and their
attempts to sabotage the national
economy and security cannot be
regarded, Mr. Menzies justly
declared, as the exercise of nor-
mal • civil rights. Self-preserva-
tion is more important than pre-
serving democratic freedom for
those who cynically abuse it.”
Coms in Unions.
As viewed from the union
side by British Laborite Herbert
Morrison:
“It is one thing to administer
a public beating to the
Communists and another thing
to deal with the evil which they
will continue to do by stealth,
“We cannot pretend that all
is right with our economic
democracy as long as men who
are heart and soul committed to
destroying democracy and
damaging our economic well-
being occupy key positions in
our great democratic trade-
unions. As long as they are
there these men should be
watched and their advice and
actions should be weighed and
sifted with the greatest care to
make sure that they do not
abuse their position here [in
Britain] as their friends have
abused it oversea.
“And they should be demo-
cratically got rid of as soon as
possible.”
The Talkative Dean.
A London “Spectator” writer
comments:
“The Dean of Canterbury, in
pursuit of his less ecclesiastical
activities, told a Canadian audi-
ence that the Archbishop of
Canterbury was ‘illiterate about
his own clergy and profoundly
ignorant about what is going on
in Russia.’ The Dean added that
‘the King appointed me, and the
King would have to fire me.’
Perhaps I may add further (since
the Dean raises the point), that
the King appointed Dr. Hewlett
Johnson on the advice of a
Labor Prime Minister; another
Labor Prime Minister would be
taking a very popular step if he
tendered appropriate advice to
his Majesty now.”
However, as the matter is ex-
pounded by a London “Daily
Telegraph” writer, the Dean was
on fairly safe ground, by a
rather quaint distinction:
“Under neither of the rele-
vant Acts of Parliament —the
Clergy Discipline Act of 1892
and, the Church Discipline Act
of 1840 —does criticism of a
superior enter as an offence, ex-
cepting for curates.”
The same writer further
elucidates: “The 1840 Act is
broad. It states that in the case
of any offence against the laws
ecclesiastical, or of a person
‘concerning whom there may
exist scandal or evil report as
having offended the said laws
.... the Bishop may take action.’
But in the long list of offences
against the said laws attacks on
the Archbishop are not in-
cluded.”
As for the bit about the King’s
role of hiring and firing: “It is
true that the announcement of
his appointment on March 14,
1931, begins with the words ‘The
King has been pleased to
approve the appointment of ’
But this office does not depend
on the King’s pleasure. If the
Dean offends against ecclesi-
astical law, the ecclesiastical
courts can take action. So Dr.
Hewlett Johnson’s reference to
the King is not only in question-
able taste but irrelevant as well.”
Dragnet Digest.
Laughter at Bonn. —Looking into
the much-discussed slump of British
prestige ip Germany, a “Manchester
Guardian” correspondent finds that
actually the average British soldier is
well liked, and the Control Commis-
sion at least tolerated; the German
shafts being mainly levelled at the
Labor Government, with a “contempt
which springs from a general belief
that Britain is a failure”; “When a
Socialist speaker in the Bonn Parlia-
ment refers to the achievements of
the Labor Government he provokes
gusts of laughter, which is mainly
genuine. Most references to Britain
during debates are derisive. Germans
regard it as something shameful that
Britain has so little food and so many
Ministers, so few army divisions to
defend herself and so many civil ser-
vants to administer one another.”
* * * *
Party Line. —A Paris staff man of
N. Y. “Herald Tribune,” checking
over the Paris papers, noticed that
“L’Humanitd,” the official Com-
munist paper, and the pro-Communist
“Liberation” used the same picture
on a Communist-led riot in front of
“Le Figaro” the night before, but
one or the other went astray on the
party line. The picture, which the
“Herald Tribune” also had, but didn’t
happen to use, showed a helmeted
policeman waving a truncheon at a
demonstrator, while between the two
another policeman lay crumpled on
the sidewalk. “L’Humanite” ran the
picture as it was, and the caption
hailed the militancy of the working
class in felling a policeman. “Libera-
tion” “painstakingly painted stripes on
the victim’s trousers and deleted any-
thing that might show he was a
policeman; the caption pointed up
police brutality.”
* * * #
New Scots Covenant. —Over six
months ago some 600 members of
what London “Times” describes as
“the large unofficial body which calls
itself the Scottish National Assembly”
put their names to a new Scottish
Covenant, pledging themselves, “in all
loyalty to the Crown, and within the
framework of the United Kingdom,
to do everything in our power to
secure for Scotland a Parliament with
adequate legislative authority in Scot-
tish affairs.” Since then, reports, the
“Times,” “the Covenant has spread
like a heather fire. It has been dis-
played at public meetings in High-
lands and Lowlands, at the gates of
football grounds, and at the doors of
cinemas; and it has now well over a
million signatures to it —a formidable
list when Scotland’s total population,
man, woman and child, has only just
topped five millions.”
* * * *
European Union, No /—A* con-
sistent opponent of European union
for J. Bull, London “Daily Express”
comments on Herbert Morrison’s
absence from among the nine Social-
ists, eight Tories and one Liberal who
are to go to Strasbourg in August
for the next meeting of the Consulta-
tive Assembly of the Council of
Europe: “Mr. Morrison may say his
absence from the delegation is due
to pressure of work. But there is
another and more important reason.
It is that Mr. Morrison shrewdly
realises the British people want no
part jn the project of a United
Europe, and will have no time for
politicians who do.”
* * * *
U.S. No-voting Record. —To his
considerable bag of “records” of one
sort and another, Uncle Sam can make
a claim on non-voting figures, as these
are sized-up by London “News
Chronicle”: “The American record
of a 51 per cent, poll in 1948 and 38
per cent, in 1946 compares with more
than 80 per cent, in the recent British
election, 75 per cent, in the Canadian
election la§t year, 82 per cent, in
Sweden and more than 80 per c.ent.
in recent French and Italian elec-
tions.”
* * * *
Changes in Moscow. —For what
such signs may be worth, a London
“Daily Telegraph” staff writer notes
that in a picture of Russian leaders
watching the May Day parade,
Malenkov had stood next to Stalin:
“His position confirms the prestige
he has been steadily acquiring at
the expense of Molotov. The ex-
Foreign Minister is now fourth, after
the security chief, M. Beria, and the
Foreign Trade Minister, M. Mikoyarf.
A notable absentee from the group,
which includes all the top-ranking
members of the hierarchy, is Vyshin-
sky. Another is Kuznetsov, chief of
all the trade-unions. There were
rumors that he was in disgrace fol-
lowing the break-up last year of the
World Federation of Trade Unions.”


u
mm
fontiUutvua
ytetfoUfumce
m
a
Fill a Sparklets Syphon with
water, “'charge'” it with a
Sparklets Bulbr-and in-
stantly a syphon of fresh
zesty ‘soda* is yours!
Refilling takes only a few
moments.
Ask your dealer for particulars
of new Standard and Streamline
models , or write for illustrated
folder to
WILCOX
HOFFLIN LTD.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Australian Distributors for:
m
V//M/M
SPARKLETS LTD,, LONDON N. 18
\
BLEMISHES
Spots, roughness
and soreness mar
the beauty of
skin and com*
* don I UseCuticura
antiseptic and medicinal pro-
perties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio—Cuticura Soap. Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder. „
529
ip regularly its
fd
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO LEO ANTHONY FOLEY late of 35
Howden Street Carrington.—T AKE
NOTICE that NORMA FOLEY has filed
Petition for Divorce No. 3304 of 1949 on,
the grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
habitual drunkenness and habitually leaving
the Petitioner without means of support
for three years and upwards habitual
drunkenness and cruelty for three years
and upwards and that she prays that the
Court exercises its discretion If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 21st August
1950 and obtain a copy of the Petition
from ALLAN ERNEST CUPIT, Solicitor,
of Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
-■
•l: "
£ *T. f „ s
' ii-
I- IS ♦- !. •
-
mm
:*?■<? :
,y
/jXf. ?Ssss&m
. > >
'
sBjse»fc(W»«^
Ji
■ -
SR'«
■ m
:%mm
dJ'T posT
° f "*■AT O » s * «EU*‘ ,l,BSt
s lti»~I *-?**
j|\E» EM
S I *i
)NE
0Y I S
AT
New Installations
of Post-war Design
OTIS ESCALATORS
ADELAIDE!
BRISBANE:
MELBOURNE:
SYDNEY:
PERTH:
Myer Emporium
(S.A.) Ltd
McWhirters Ltd
Myer Emporium Ltd. ...
Manton & Sons Ltd
Anthony Hordern &
Sons Ltd
David Jones Ltd.
Mark Toy’s Ltd
Boons Ltd •
OTIS
CualatwA
-PUT MOTION INTO SALES PROMOTION
This Otis escalator installation at depart-
Ltd., Melbourne, invites customerrs more,
ments on upper floors-to see more and
Properly planned escaialors induce shoppers fl{
all departments . . . promote a high fop mo re
customers to merchandising are .’ o fi te
store traffic, more sales —and m P
Your local Otis office will be glad to give you t e
and survey conditions in your store.
2
elevator company
(Incorporated in Victoria
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • AOEIAIU
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART
NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATES
, SOUTH AFRICA • fU%t l
SMOKE-OH!
PIMMS No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Some people who pay key-money
with their eyes open don’t deserve
to get it back.” —Judge Berne.
Seeing that they let themselves
in for it.
4* 4* 4*
“At last-television has reached the
National Capital.” —Sydney “D.T.”
Perhaps they’ll use it to screen
some Reds,
4* 4* 4*
“Miss will be at the Australia
for another of melusine, with a com-
plete bird trimming the centre of the
right sweep of brim, when she lunched
yesterday with at Romano’s.”
—Sydney ‘‘Sun. ,,
Her hat went to the reporter’s
head completely.
“Men don’t like masculine fashions
for women." — Woman’s paper.
They can’t figure them out at
all.
•b *b
“Speaker Archie Cameron remains
a'never-ending source of surprise.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
“You bet!” say card-players
in the House.
4* + 4* ,
“Mobile sheep-rustlers are believed
to be making more than £lOOO a
week from ‘ghost’ raids on country
properties in New South Wales.”
—Sydney ‘‘Sunday Telegraph."
This is over the fence!
“For sale, dinner suite and two
bird-cages.” —Suburban paper.
The birds decided to dine out
for the future.
Theory Without Foundations
“Neither Shakspeare nor Bacon,
but William Stanley, sixth Earl ot
Derby, wrote ‘Shakspeare.’ ”
— Dr. Arthur Titherley.
It’s time the final word was said
About the age-old mystery
Surrounding the identity
Of him who evidently fled
Publicity with such success
That, whether he was noble lord
Or humble actor on the sward.
Is, at the best, a sort of guess.
So I’ll proceed to quash the
claim
Of those who say that Stanley
penned
Or Bacon wrote from start to
end
The plays that bear Will Shak-
speare’s name.
For in my wisdom I prefer
To think such mighty promise
can
Have been displayed by just one
man —
Some sixteenth-century McGirr A
D.H.E.
Another Discussion-group.
The annual meeting of Chief
Standby Sensations of the “Daily
Moron” was being addressed by
the chairman, The Racing
Scandal.
“As you know, ladies and
gentlemen,” he said, “we are
gathered here today not only to
do honor to those who employ
us but to discuss any complaints,
ways and means by which our
talents may be put to the best
use in the coming year and,
generally, matters by which our
best interests may be protected.
“For myself,” he went on, “I
have no complaints. Our paper
may claim with perfect justifi-
cation that in my case they have,
in the current jargon, achieved
full employment. The only real
danger is that I am used so
much nowadays I am afraid that
soon I may be classed as a
Common Everyday Occurrence,
with my headlines raising eye-
brows no higher than do such
casual items as the news that five
million Chinese are starving in
Sinkiang or that Joe Stalin has
had another heart turn necessi-
tating several months’ recupera-
tion at Yalta.
“Still, I may, I think,
modestly claim that in the past
few months I have muscled
President Truman, Bevin, eight
Soviet walk-outs at U.N.0., two
Western defence conferences
and an atom-spy hunt off the
front pages of the ‘Moron’ a
not uncreditable record. I would,
however, voice protest against
the tendency to play up the
horse ‘connection’ blow-out for
life rather than doping. As a
circulation - puller the hypo-
dermic syringe is of incalculably
greater benefit than the rubbing-
out of the connections, whilst an
enlarged photo of the instrument
will, I venture to say, sell more
‘Morons’ than that of a granite-
faced trainer.”
Here the Lost Girl Hiker
spoke up. “I think it’s a shame,”
she said, “the way they treat me.
The last time I was lost for two
days in the Blue Mountains a
staff photographer snapped me
before I was ready, and it came
out showing my hair all straggly.
It was dreadful, and my nose
all shiny, too, but the time be-
fore that it was really awful, be-
cause there was no photographer
there at all, and another thing,
although I spoke in italics like I
always do to the reporters, the
subs would take it out of the
copy and it didn’t read like me.
I don’t think it’s fair, so there.”
“Pipe down, kain’t yuh”
broke in Gorgeous Gussie’s
Panties. “You-all ain’t had the
raw deal I’ve had. The last time
I hit the screamer headlines was
when the Things had photos of
Joe Di Maggio and King
Phumiphon appliqued on ’em,
“Lucky I had this bottle of home-brew handy.”
and what happened? The idiots
ran it on the same page as a
story under banner-heads of a
Darlinghurst gangster’s hun-
dred-and-fifty-wreath funeral,
with a photo of the body
lying-in-state with a body-
guard holding up-ended
knuckledusters. It ‘killed’ my
item, even though it was
garnished with photos of the
panties on Gussie from four in-
teresting angles. If the elastic
don’t snap when they’re in action
on the centre court at Wimble-
don this month I may as well be
reconciled to seeing myself
limited to a half-inch fill-up
under the fat-stock prices.”
“Well,” put in the Latest Jail
Escape, “I must say I’ve been
treated most handsomely, by
and large. A run of scare-heads
on the front page for four days
followed by six days on the first
inside page alongside the gossip
guff—that must go close to a
record for the ‘Moron.’ The
fact that my heavy black type
has done much to glamorise a
pair of subnormal criminals into
heroes who may inspire some
readers of the ‘Moron’ a bit
weaker-minded than the rest into
emulating their deeds is most
satisfying. Combine this with
my parallel effect of holding the
police up to ridicule and.you
begin to see the splendid influ-
ence I exert not only upon the
‘Moron’ but upon all the other
morons in the community. They
really ought to toast me in
printers’ ink,”
“You must admit,” said the
Hollywood Divorce Scandal,
“that I’m as consistent as any
sensation in the paper. I never
fail ’em. In fact, the ‘Moron’
wouldn’t be the same paper
without my almost daily appear-
ance. The only things that can
put me back to an inner page
between a rag ad. and the half-
wits’ pap served up by the
astrologer are either a juicy bit
by our chairman himself or a
double-murder with sex as the
motive. But I’m always some-
where there on the job with the
r
a bit more neurotic.” * e W a le,
stamped n e ‘f? olBirl
“Why should I be e iven ,Ulan , 1| y-
headlines than PromintA 8 ?
Robbed?” she compS d J » C A key
I don’t see why they can’t:, And
an ace feature-writer instead^ 11
sob-sister to tell the S d ° fa
how I threw myself down on tff
ground to make the police ° he
me to the station, and how
parents were so pleased ♦ my
me back they forgave me f° r Sl
for having cost them fifty D o2 y
mjlane-fares to comeTd
“Listen, pimply-face/’ sa i ri
n / J ° ckey Rob bed. “ Vo d
ought to know by now that anv
thing concerning a Prominent
Jockey, whether it’ s the I 1
that the liquor bill f or his
ding reception is to cost two
hundred quid or his wife drops
her eight-hundred-guinea T
gagement-rmg down the sink
and has to get a plumber to re-
cover it can always push an
Atom War Warning off the front
page of the ‘Moron.’ When
he’s robbed that is, by those
not in legitimate business—that
puts all other news sensations in
the bucket-shop class.”
“WeH,” said the chairman,
copy s starting to roU in, and
a few of us are sure to be wanted
today. Let’s get back on the
job.”
Bo.
Comforting Contrast.
The flashy furnishings just
reeked
Of bad taste and expense,
The loud and gaudy carpets
shrieked
Their vulgar opulence,
But when the owner entered in
She soothed the eyes from
pain.
And 4 quieted the carpet’s din—
So sombre she and plain.
BRIAN BUREAU.


Matchless performance!
That's why OtOre tOHS STB ilSUled WA
more people ride—the world over—on
Goodyear Tyres than on any other make!
m
V
A right tyre for each job!
Here are the famous super-stamina Good-
year work tyres each one designed for the
best performance on a particular job.
RIB
ALL SERVICE
HI-MILER
RIB
HI-MILER
ALL-WEATHER
AIRWHEEL
The actual over-the-road performance records
of truck and bus operators, the world over,
prove that Goodyear Truck and Bus Tyres are
the world's finest. They stand up better on
the hardest jobs ~ give longest tyre life
lowest cost per mile. Each Goodyear Hi-Milor
Truck and Bus Tyre is built from finest natural
rubber and tough, heat-resisting Rayon ®ord
—to give maximum performance. Get the
world's finest tyres Goodyear Hi-Milers
from your Goodyear Dealer.
GOOD
'sm
YEAR
TRUCK & BUS TYRES
10AI4-H.
See Singapore
WITHOUT COST..
M 2
LYSK
on the “Sterling” Route to London
EXPENSE-FREE TOURS OF THREE FAMOUS CITIES
Colourful, cosmopolitan crossroads of the East,
and Gateway to the Orient, Singapore, with its
teeming its exotic charm and wealth of
variety is a highlight on your 4-day flight to
London. See it, as our guest, on a free conducted
tour. Or stop-over here —or anywhere on the
route —at no extra fare.
Fly by luxurious air-conditioned Constellation.
Enjoy first-class food, superlatively good service.
Choose from two routes —via Calcutta, or via
Colombo and Bombay on the only Constellation
service to London.
For trip planning help,
full details of fares,
timetables, etc., consult
your travel agent.
See Rome and Cairo, too f
on free conducted tours.
REDUCED FARES
To Singapore and Rome
FOR “OFF-SEASON" ROUND TRIPS
Ask your travel agent for full details of the
recently announced special reduced fares for
off-season return travel to Singapore and
Rome. These concessions operate for a
limited period only—but they save you
£33/10/0 on a return trip to Singapore or
£145/15/0 on a trip to Rome and back.
Q£A and B'O'A'C
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel ■ with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Whether it is due to some fault in
,he framing of the programme is
difficult to say, but certainly for
some reason, the first day of the
A j c. Winter Meeting seems to hold
little attraction for many owners and
trainers In three successive years
the numbers of runners contesting a
rard of seven events have been 78,
70 and, on Saturday last, 67. Yet
at’ Randwick the previous Saturday
a programme, carrying a smaller total
of prizemoney attracted 105 starters.
Saturday’s card comprised two juvenile
events, a trial stakes of 10 furlongs,
a mile welter, another mile race for
three-year-old fillies, a 10-furlongs
handicap and, as the principal dish,
the June Stakes of 6 furlongs. The
least-popular event, and therefore one
which might .well be experimentally
replaced, seems to be the Trial Stakes,
which in the three years cited has
produced fields of 8, 8 and 5 runners.
Although with 13 starters it offered
one of the two biggest fields of the
day, the £2OOO June Stakes might
have attracted a bigger and better
field if it had not carried such a good
prize. As it was, the winner’s cut
of £l4OO plus sweepstakes made the
recipient liable for a penalty of up
to 141 b. in the forthcoming Doomben
Ten Thousand. Buzmark, who has
been rather nicely handicapped with
8.4 in the Doomben Sprint, accepted
for the June Stakes, but was
scratched.
Betting on the June Stakes was
fairly open, but Deep Sea finally
emerged as favorite at fours. Rim
Boy, however, pressed him close in
the betting, and made a thorough
exhibition of the lot of them in the
race. Always handily placed, Rim
Boy made his run from the Leger,
and won by nearly three lengths from
Midwise and Cognac; he gave the
impression that he could as well have
made his run at any other stage of
the race and won just as easily. A
four-year-old son of Rimveil-Crisa-
lean, Rim Boy has little to offer in
the way of looks, but he’s evidently
a sprinter well above the ordinary;
it was his third successive win over
the Randwick 6-furlongs journey.
Midwise finished rather promisingly
for second money in the June Stakes,
and Cognac, who tired towards the
finish after doing all the pacemaking,
should be much benefited by the run.
Of other events at Randwick, the
one which seemed potentially of most
portent was the June Juvenile (7f.)
for two-year-old colts and geldings.
There were only eight runners in the
Juvenile, but it would not be sur-
prising to see three of them go on
to much better things. One was the
winner, the Queensland colt Mr.
Standby, a son of Mr. Standfast and
Early Spear. Mr. Standby has the
breeding, and in the manner of his
winning the Juvenile, with a powerful
finishing burst on the outside after
being well back earlier, he looked a
good deal more like a potential Derby
winner than a vast majority of the
colts sighted so far this season.
Another to impress was the Whirl-
away gelding Bahram’s Double, who,
having only his second outing, was
always prominent, and finished a close
third behind Waterfront. Further
back in the field, and looking and
running much as one would expect
of a colt having his first outing since
winning the Breeders’ Plate at his
only previous start, was the grey
Nirandoli, of whom more should be
heard.
With the exception of the 10-to-l
chance Air Flare (J. Deely), who
downed lolanda and Anthelion in the
10-furlongs Ellesmere Handicap, all
winners on Saturday were either
favorites or second favorites, and,
among them, had the bookies
reduced to an agony of self-pity. The
New Zealand-bred Regal Gold (G.
Moore) secured a wondrous lucky
run on the rails to just pip American
Edition in the June Nursery; Garden
Party (N. McGrowdie) finished
strongly to beat Lady Oxford and
other three-year-old fillies in the St.
Aubins Handicap; favorite Saville
Row (N. Sellwood) had the run of
the race to win the Trial Stakes from
Golden Tan; and the aged grey
Granite upset, with a couple of
lengths to spare, a hefty plunge on
the country performer Sir Marcher
in the Exeter Handicap.
* * * *
Sydney race clubs display, with
occasional exceptions, a stodgy un-
imaginativeness in the naming of the
general run of race. Admittedly the
position is not nearly so bad as in
Brisbane, where many a title reads
more like a mathematical formula
than the name of a race, but they
ill compare with the Melbourne
clubs. The King’s Birthday meeting
in Melbourne is recognised as such,
and named accordingly. On Satur-
day there were the York Hurdle, the
Hopetoun Steeple and the Rothsay,
Royal, Sandringham and Buckingham
Handicaps. On the second day it
was the Marlborough Hurdle, the
Royal Steeple, the Cornwall High-
weight and the Princess, Birthday
and Lancaster Handicaps. Over the
two days at Randwick, on the other
hand, there were the June Juvenile,
the June Nursery, the June Stakes,
the June Encourage, the Winter
Juvenile the Winter Nursery and the
Winter Stakes, all of which seems to
be much over-emphasising even such
an exceptionally beastly season as
we are at present experiencing. The
“ Remember , if y' break these y ’ pay for ’em.”
A.J.C. did offer one token of recogni-
tion of the festive occasion, but it
seemed of questionable suitability—
the Windsor Handicap.
* * * *
Since they had last been used, the
controversial Flemington fences had
been modified according to the recom-
mendations of the Victorian Preven-
tion-of-Cruelty-to-Animals people, but
they still claimed their toll from the
field contesting Saturday’s Hopetpun
Steeple. Two of the eight runners
lost their riders. As well, the
strongly-fancied War Loan, who had
clouted several fences rather hard,
gave way in a leg approaching the
finish, and had to be destroyed; for
this, of course, fences could scarcely
be blamed. Burdened with topweight
of 11.3 on the heavy track, the aged
Waikare gelding Faunus (A. Moon)
staged one of the best efforts of his
creditable career to hold off the
lightweight Formidable (9.1) and score
by a neck. Marsula ran third, fol-
lowed at a great distance by the
favorite, Jevington.
The several fancied Grand National
candidates who contested' the York
Hurdle were thoroughly put to shame
by the Hellespont gelding Hush Hush,
a 25-to-l chance with the books and
a very easy winner. Hush Hush, who
carried 9.4 on Saturday and has only
9.1 in the National, ran right away
from them at the finish, winning by
seven lengths from the favorite
Tyrian, with Our Land plodding
along in third place.
An unusual item on Saturday was
provided by the Rothsay Handicap,
which was won by favorite Great
Scout after withstanding a barrage of
protests. The order past the post
was Great Scout (L. Lott), a neck
to Star Chamber and three-parts of
a length to Regent King. The rider
of Star Chamber protested against
Great Scout and the rider of Regent
King challenged both of them. Both
protests against the winner were dis-
missed, but Regent King was upheld
in his objection to Star Chamber and
was awarded second place ahead of
that horse.
Another favorite who landed the
money after giving supporters some
anxious moments was Solvive in the
Royal Handicap (7f.). The Sydney
sprinter Riptide showed them a clean
pair of heels most of the way, and
seemed set for a good win, but the
favorite, driven home vigorously by
W. Williamson, bridged the gap to
score by a short half-head; Thistle
was third. In other events the “good
things” proved not good enough.
The handicapper finally took Dashing
Beau’s measure in the Sandringham
Handicap (12L), but it was no dis-
grace to the Dashing Cavalier five-
year-old, who, with 9.5, was con-
ceding the field 171 b. and upward,
and was beaten a head and a neck
by Henley (A. Burton) carrying 7.13
and Patron (Bst.). The Buckingham
Highweight went to the 12-to-l shot
Noble Prince (L. Lott), with Grand
Monarch second, Jamboree third and
the favorite Foxacre, like A. A.
Milne’s character, "last seert wander-
ing vaguely.”
* * * *
For Randwick today (meeting post-
poned from Monday):- —
Winter Nursery: Keeborough, 1;
Happy May, 2; American Edition, 3.
Three-year-old : Tivoli Star, 1; Valiant
Lee, 2; Botany Bay, 3. Winter
Juvenile: Poitiers, 1; Wanfield, 2;
Tapoaki, 3. Windsor Handicap; Blue
Flag, 1; Midwise, 2; Mona’s Choice,
3. Winter Stakes: Frontal Attack, 1;
Lordly, 2; Erpingham, 3. June En-
courage : Bonfire, 1; Fresteem, 2;
Dixie Belle, 3. Botany Handicap;
Ambolo, 1; Admetus, 2; Au Secour,
3.
Jack Read looks over the world-
heavyweight situation;
Just as when Jim Jeffries retired in
1905, the world’s heavyweight title
is lost in chaos. Jeffries refereed a
contest, Marvin Hart v. Jack Root,
at Reno on July 3, a few months
after he had retired. Hart won the
bout, and Jeffries declared him to be
the heavyweight champion. Tommy
Burns then outpointed Hart at Los
Angeles, and Jack Johnson stopped
Burns at Sydney Stadium on Decem-
ber 26, 1908, but overseas “authori-
ties” refused to recognise Johnson as
champion until Jeffries was brought
out of retirement and k.o’d. by
Johnson in 15 rounds at Reno on
July 4, 1910.
Similarly, Joe Louis retired as
undefeated champion after beating
“Jersey Joe” Walcott in 1948, and
Louis, promoting the contest, declared
Ezzard Charles the title-holder whpn
Charles outpointed Walcott in
Chicago last year.
Ezzard Charles, said to be a very
sick man, may never box again, and
when American Lee Savold stopped
British champion Bruce Woodcock in
London last week, English promoter
Jack Solomons claimed that Savold
was heavyweight champion of the
world.
Woodcock was compelled to capitu-
late because of a cut eyebrow, and
he may meet Savold again. For a
wonder, American promoters are
almost silent about Ezzard Charles
being champion, but it is rumored
that Joe Louis will return to the
ring and fight someone in defence
of the title. It would be a shame
to see Louis, after retiring undefeated,
attempt a comeback, but his defeat
would clear up the whole business,
offering a solution which would be
pretty readily accepted all round. Be
that as it may, the boxing fraternity
in Britain and most European coun-
tries are behind Solomons in recognis-
ing a Savold-Woodcock return bout
as a real world-title match, and should
Woodcock win (good judges thought
him well ahead on points when his
eyebrow was gashed) he will be the
first Englishman recognised as world’s
heavyweight champion since the Mar-
quis of Queensberry rules began to
function.
* * * *
In Sydney Rugby Union last Satur-
day Eastwood showed excellent spirit
to recover and beat Randwick 19-14
after being down 0-11 at half time.
It was the fighting spirit that a team
needs to win competitions, and must
have been encouraging to supporters
of the Eastwood Club, which was
admitted to senior football only four
seasons ago. In discussing “how-to-
play-football,” experts have said and
written much of tactics and the like,
but all the coaching in the world
will not make a good team unless
the players go on to the field with
the will to win and the determination
to turn defence into attack and
apparent defeat into victory. The
Eastwood men have shown that they
possess that spirit, and a little more
polish and planning in their attack
should see them up among the com-
petition leaders, In other club-
matches Manly beat Drummoyne,
Easts beat Parramatta, Wests beat
University, Norths beat St. George
and, in an unofficial match against
United Services, Gordon took a sur-
prising pasting, United Services win-
ning 22-8,
Also, Saturday’s inter-State match
in Brisbane provided another sur-
prise when the highly-rated N.S.W.
side was held to a draw by Queens-
land. Across the Tasman the British
Isles tourists were whitewashed 8-0
in the second of the four Tests being
played against the All Blacks. This
win should restore confidence to New
Zealand football, which suffered
defeats by both Australia and S’Africa
last season. By the same token, there
was no disgrace in those defeats, as
the New Zealanders had their forces
divided in tackling both bigger
opponents at the same time.


>.
Mr. Man-on-the-land!
Ask yourself
which Pastoral Company
9 has always made Service to yon
its first object?
o has kept pace with your great Industry's
requirements for 87 years?
o has staffed its organisation with
men alive to your interests?
r « offers you the best facilities for sale ot
wool, fat stock and hides, purchase of
merchandise, matters of finance and
management, agistment and insurance?
Tie answer to ail questions rs-
-87 Yean in the Service of the Man on the Land
A.li.L*.F
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE. LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD
Head Officd for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Counity Branches: — N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Oowra,
Scone, Moree, Oarah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina, Cooma and Deniliquin.
Q’land; Townsville, Oharleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandl,
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and
Pittsworth, Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, H. P. Veness & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Winton. Vic.: Wodonga, Korumburra.
FOR RHEUMATISM
ARTHRITIS. SCIATICA.
LUMBAGO, NEURALGIA,
RHEUMATIC GOUT and all
AILMENTS OF THE
RHEUMATIC GROUP
For 30 years Cluny McPherson ’
Mixture has proved ® J,
to sufferers from Rhcumat
Cluny a 18 .
the ’rdleves the J*
restores proper functioning
kidneys and tones up
nervous system. tq.dAY
START TAKING CLUNY S.JHB
mwi
I
m
-Vfi*
H
r/.v
swii
Hik&S v J
cluny mcpherson
MIXTURE
FAMED T
TS
i it Jc **
YEARS
CM.I »•«*
Sydney Ram Sales.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“Bungaree”: With an eye to
records, leading studmasters
sent several particularly good
rams ; they had no reason to be
disappointed. Although it was
a bumper year for fashionable
studs, several smaller and lesser-
known studs did not fare so
well; prices were even lower
than last year in some instances.
On the whole, the market for
anything but really good sheep
with a well-known brand on the
horn was erratic and unpredict-
able. Some smaller studs met
the market, but many took their
sheep home, knowing they could
get better prices in the paddock.
Two auction records were
made. In the opening sale a
Bundemar ram sold at 3100gns.,
just beating the previous record ;
next day Uardry topped this
with 3400gns. in a disputed bid
duel. The ram was one of the
finest breeder’s sheep ever seen
in Sydney, and before the sales
he was singled out for special
attention and tipped as most
likely to top the sale. He went
to A. W. Scott, Milong, Young.
Sixteen rams were sold at
four-figure prices, three from
Bundemar, eight from Haddon
Rig, three from Wahwoon and
one each from Uardry and
Wonga. The latter ram attracted
much attention for his size and
style and went to a Young
breeder, D. H. Macfarlane. Of
1290 sheep offered 1006 were
sold at auction, and the average
price was easily a record. Total
ram sales amounted to over
£146,800, or an average of £145
per head. In addition, 200 ewes
offered by Uardry averaged
close on 30gns. for an aggregate
of £6000.
Demand for fine-wool rams
was good, but buyers’ limits
were on a much more restricted
plane than for stronger-wool
types. Merryville’s top price
was 850gns. for the show grand
champion. Considering the
prices paid for fine and super-
fine wools, breeders of these
types of rams must have been
disappointed with results.
South Australian studs were
present in greater strength than
ever—eight taking part. Quality
of some of the sheep was not
particularly good, in fact if a
comparison of S.A. and Sydney
prices is any criterion, some
studs must sell their good sheep
at home. On the other hand,
judging by the number of pur-
chasers from S.A. and West
Australia, these buyers must
find that they can buy the big
strong - woolled S.A. rams
cheaper in Sydney than in
Adelaide. Koonoona again
topped the S.A. contingent sales
with two rams at 550gns.
Each year sees greater interest
in Merino polls, and a draft of
31 from Boonoke realised good
prices. Top was 400gns., and
averages ranged from 292gns.
for special studs to for
studs. They were strong and
medium wools, and while they
are not yet in the quality level
of the horned sheep as far as
covering and conformation are
concerned, density and staple
length were uniformly good.
Some rams were without sign of
horn growth, but the majority
showed small scurrs.
Best stud average was made
by Bundemar, 31 rams averaged
£367. Uardry was next with 27
for close on £350, but the most
creditable all-round perform-
ance came from Haddon Rig,
which sold 148 rams for an
average of just over £296. This
stud’s aggregate sales amounted
to approximately 30 per cent, of
the total paid at auction for
Merino rams.
At the other end of the scale
there were flock-rams for as low
as 6gns. Many failed to elicit a
bid. It is hard to understand
why some breeders persist in
sending low-grade rams to sell
in such company; the adverse
publicity resulting from their
low prices must reflect on them.
There were fewer rams show-
ing body-fold development than
for many years. Plain bodies
were the rule, and there was
nothing to suggest that density
had suffered—rather the reverse.
The Merino ram of today is a
better utility type suitable for
Australian conditions and likely
to produce better-constitutioned
and better-woolled sheep with
less blowfly appeal than any
since the Vermont invasion.
British Breeds and
Corried'ales.
These were patchy, and clear-
ances were not entirely satisfac-
tory. Several breeders refused
to meet the market and did not
make a single sale at auction.
Border Leicesters met a fair de-
mand, but prices were not high.
B.L. ewes made good clearances
at moderate prices. About 80
per cent, of the Borders sold at
auction were from the Victorian
studs Barfold Downs and
Kelso Park. Top price for rams
was 56gns.
Only a handful of Southdowns
was offered, and most of them
changed hands. The only Brun-
skill ram brought 80gns., and the
others averaged under llgns.
Dorset Horn buyers paid good
prices for what they wanted, but
only Lindsbury and Marylebone
made good clearances. Averages
were very good. Lowest price
for a ram was 41gns. D. T.
Herbert paid 105gns. for a
Marylebone ram and 230gns. for
one from Lindsbury. No other
British breeds were sold at
auction.
No Polwarths were offered,
but there was a good attendance
of Corriedale buyers. Good
sheep had a ready market; pur-
chasers soon showed that they
were prepared to pay only for
quality; many lots failed to get
a bid.
Guthrie Corriedales found
ready buyers, and averaged
HOgns. Many owners were not
prepared to meet the market, and
most of their offerings were
passed in. Redbank and Old
Redbank sheep met a ready de-
mand, and the former recorded
good clearances at very good
prices.
The grand champion Corrie-
dale ram brought 210gns. In
the adjoining pen was another
Redbank ram which had won
third prize in the same class as
"Y' want to turn her over, mate — she'd be easier
to split from the other side.”
the champion; two buyers went
after him and ran him up to
400gns. the highest-priced
Corriedale of the sale, giving
Redbank best average price for
the breed. Many pens were of
low quality, and buyers gave
them little consideration.
Spraying-oils.
“Rooster”: In the “Victorian
Journal of Agriculture” F. M,
Read, Chief Inspector of Agri-
culture, says that in considering
oil-spray efficiency its effect on
plants cannot be overlooked,
although in some cases damage
is delayed and not so easy to
assess.
Apparently all natural oils
contain “aromatic or un-
saturated hydrocarbons,” which
are very dangerous to plants.
Oils generally are classified on
their physical properties (vis-
cosity, pour-point, gravity, etc.),
but in most countries only two
classifications are used —summer
oils and dormant oils. It was
thought that summer oils, be-
cause of their lower viscosity
and greater refinement, were
safer to use on plants, although
less effective on insect pests,
than dormant oils. This is now
known to be wrong. Both
summer and dormant oils are
equally effective on pests.
Read says that one significant
discovery is that spraying-oife
“vary greatly in the types of
hydrocarbons of which they are
composed because of the varia-
tion in the crudes from which
they are made.” In the U.S.A.
there are three classes of crudes
—high paraffinic, the strongly
naphthenic, or asphaltic, and the
mixed. Of these the paraffin-
chain hydrocarbons have been
proved to be the most effective
against such pests as codlin-
moth, oriental fruit pest and
red-mite. They are also more
effective on citrus.
Read concludes that the whole
question of formulation and
deposition rates should be
studied in Australia in the light
of these findings. The cost of
producing superior oils would
be high, but their degree of
efficiency would more than offset
it. The citrus industry particu-
larly would greatly benefit.
Spray Chemicals.
“Myrrhee”: Some of the new
chemicals used for insect-pest
control need to be handled with
extreme caution, according to
W. R. Jewell, chief chemist of
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture. These are chiefly
organic phosphorus compounds,
the hexa- and tetra-phosphates
and the thio-phosphates.
If above a relatively small
concentration the residue left
from these chemicals is toxic to
man. Fortunately, says Jewell,
the chemicals break down in a
comparatively short time in con-
tact with plant tissue, but, to
ensure that the residue is reduced
to a safe limit, the last spraying
should be made some weeks be-
fore harvest. There is also a
definite risk to the sprayer, more
so with the organic thio-phos-
pbate compounds either taken
through the skin or the mouth
and nose. Cases of illness and
deaths from this cause have
occurred overseas.
Orchardists spraying with
these compounds are advised to
use a respirator and avoid con-
tact of the chemicals with the
skin. If this occurs thorough
washing with warm, soapy water
is advocated.
Wheat for Cows,
“Mr.”: Grind a fine,
gritty texture and mix with long
chaff (about lin.) to keep the
meal from forming a doughy,
glutinous mass in the rumen,
which can’t be regurgitated as
cud and tends to make the ani-
mal foodsick. Suitable propor-
tions are chaff 61b., ground grain
121 b. If chaff is hard to get, one
of chaff to three of grain could
be fed with safety. Dry cattle
can be maintained in good con-
dition for a long period on 81b.
of ground wheat with roughage
per day. Flax boll, lucerne or
cereal chaff is equally suitable as
a roughage. To the meal add 1
per cent, of salt and 1 per cent,
of ground limestone.
New Soil Fumigant.
“C.S.”: Eelworms (nema-
todes) burrow into the roots of
susceptible plants, forming galls
which prevent the plant from
growing properly
are particularly bad ; Worms
light sandy soils where « mOSt
humid conditions exist Warm
m the pineapple!. as-
vegetable-growing area and
Queensland, the veeetam S of
of West Australia to 2l e f rea
houses, etc. mato glass-
Cconomical control was ;
possible before D.D * lm '
gant was developed by the £
0.1 people (D.D. stands h f ®
t 2 per gallon Md“,
per Pl aere a M£f eo£ , 2 °3«
sidered for crops givhg b °
monetary return per acre p gh
crops on which D.D Can F h ° r
used economically spectacnia
results have been achfeved
Queensland tobacco crops have
shown an increased yield of as
much as 66 per cent.; tomatoes
have shown increases of 500 n er
cent. In many cases the in
creased crop from the first pick-
ing has been sufficient to Dav
I m° St ° f the D ‘ D - Judging
by the appearance of plants in
Queensland trials and experi-
ence in Hawaii, where D D
saved the pineapple industry
there is every reason to expect
considerable increase in nine
apple yields. pme ’
Annual injection of D.D is
at present recommended, but ex-
perimental work now in pro-
gress may show that for some
crops injection every two years
is sufficient.
In addition to a hand-injector
for seedbeds and glasshouses and
a gravity-fed attachment for
ploughs the Shell people have
developed a mechanical injector
for treating large areas. It con-
sists of a tractor-drawn trailer
on which is mounted a 70gal.
copper tank, a gear pump
operating direct from the trailer
wheels or from an auxiliary one
h.p. engine ; a pressure-regulator
and flow-meters to control the
flow to the six tynes, down the
back of which stainless steel
pipes carry the D.D. into the
soil.
A system of valves and con-
trivances permits accurate con-
trol.
For Tanksinkers.
“C.S.”: Put together by the
staff of British Standard
Machinery Co. and published by
Angus and Robertson (Sydney),
Tanksinking is one of the most
valuable little textbooks ever
put out for property-owners,
scoop-riders, contractors and the
other dusty coves who go round
the country digging big holes in
it in which to hold water.
Not the least valuable part ot
the book is the section on assess-
ing sizes and water-holding
capacity of tanks. Anyone using
the book can work out to a gal-
lon and a cubic foot of earth
just how big a hole has to be
sunk to hold the desired amount
of water. This is accompanied
by diagrams and tables that


Established 1868
retractors to Government, Municipal.
L Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson *
OSVOJJVAS
cZ mvo ,
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
■ EAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC printers
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE and linotype
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
envelope manufacturers
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•IACKSUL,” BRISBANE
MODERN
SANITATION
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
(Complete self-contained sanitary
system .l
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING
NO WATER :
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
fd
ANY HANDYMAN CAN
INSTAL IT
Sewage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that
runs away into th® soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Me-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN; 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLIPPER” Ready
Rubbed Aromatic Fine Cut Blended
from Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz.
Packs. Priced 24/- per lb. or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, In 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
l>er lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It’s good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
CASH WITH ORDER.
PROMPT DESPATCH.
Special Quotes Retailers For Orders
201bs. or Over.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGUEY, Chairman ; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White.
R. A. MANZIB, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone: B.W. 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States,
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
griuder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
jIJ
m
■'
.*•
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
BMH
FONDE
*
EN 1724
RE MY MARTIN
V.8.0.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
fabfna- rfuJfaee/uis
POWERED FOR THE
810 ACRE JOBS
sm
1*
Priced and Fuelled
your working
to cut
costs
FORDSON
MAJOR
AVAILABLE IN
TWO GEAR RATIOS
THE SPECIAL RATIO for soil conditions where
tough going and the implements used demand in-
creased pounds pull at the draw-bar.
THE STANDARD RATIO for use where soil
conditions and implements allow increased miles
per hour and where less pounds pull at the draw-
bar is necessary.
In official Nebraska-type tests, at rated load (75%
of maximum) and in second gear, the comparisons
are as follows ;-
SPECIAL RATIO
Drawbar H.P.H. Draw-bar
Pull lbs H.P.
3,000 3.5. 28.4
STANDARD RATIO
Drawbar M.P.H. Drawbar
pull lbs H.P.
4.6.
2,300
28.3
FMD2S-27
Enquire from your State Distributors:
N.S.W.; Motor Tractors Pty. Ltd., 369-385 Wattle St., Ultimo. VICTORIA:—MaIcoIm
Moore Pty. Ltd., 300 City Rd., South Melbourne. QUEENSLAND:— Buzacott’s (Q’ld.)
Ltd , 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. SOUTH AUSTRALIA:—Power Plant Ltd., 98-100 Currie
St., Adelaide. WEST AUST.:—Lynas Motors Pty. Limited. 981-983 Hay St., Perth.
OR FROM YOUR LOCAL FORDSON DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.) Reg. Office: GEELONG. Vic.
simplify the job and save enor-
mous time in calculations.
There are also outlines of
rainfall conditions, various de-
signs for tanks, advice on
grades, silt-traps and the like
and a fund of generally useful
information.
The Kudzu Vine.
“Trentwood”; First intro-
duced into America as an orna-
mental addition to the garden
in the 1920’5, it has proved a
blessing to the worn-out and
eroded lands in the south, has
transformed deserts into green
pastures as it creeps and crawls
along land from which the top-
soil has long since gone into
creeks and out to sea, and binds
it with its rope-like vines.
As many as four vines are
put out from each crown, and
at each joint a new crown ap-
pears. It takes 500 crowns to
cover an acre, and on rich soil,
at the peak of the growing sea-
son, it grows 12in. a day. Even
100 ft. a year has been recorded.
It stands drought well. Some
roots go down 12ft.
At first men were afraid it
would prove a pest like the
honeysuckle. But how could a
vine which fed like clover or
lucerne with the same protein
content prove a menace? Not
only did it spread a mat of pro-
tective cover, but it drew nitro-
gen from the air and stored it
in the soil for other crops. Live-
stock multiply on it. In one
year it will cover a cornfield ; in
the spring it can be ploughed-in
and the field again sown with
corn. When that is gathered the
vine spreads again, and when a
hard frost comes it lays down a
rich carpet of leaf-mould.
Lucerne-hay.
“K.Mc.”: Whe n making
lucerne-hay the leaved dry out
much quicker than the stems.
If a pick-up baler is used before
the stems are dry the hay sweats
and will go mouldy; if the
farmer waits till the stems are
dry he loses most of the valu-
able leaf fodder in the pressing
operation. For those reasons
the pick-up baler has not been
a pronounced success.
The haymaker, mentioned by
“He-Ne” (B. 15/2/’5O), has been
tried out on lucerne by R. J.
Doolin and Sons in northern
N.S.W. Besides cutting the
lucerne, this machine crushed
the stems so that they dried out
about the same time as the
leaves. Caution is advised until
more tests are made, but if the
haymaker, side-delivery rake and
pick-up baler can prepare
lucerne in as good a saleable
condition in three operations as
the old combersome method of
mowing, raking, cocking, cart-
ing-in, stacking and hand-pres-
sing the three implements men-
tioned will cut the wages bill in
lucerne-farming in less than
half.
Hints for the Farm.
“Rooster”: Where little
milk is available for the feeding
of calves, it is essential that they
be grazed on good, fresh, green
pasture, and a supplementary
ration provided, A good meal
for a six-weeks’-old calf can be
made from ylb. of pollard or
finely-ground wheat and -jrlb. of
linseed meal boiled in Igal. of
water to which a teaspoonful of
ground limestone and one of
salt have been added. Cool
down to 90deg. F.
“W. Court”: If your country
is lightly stocked and subject to
fires don’t allow heaps of leaves
and refuse to lie about. Burn
them when the dew is forming on
a winter evening. Leaving rub-
bish until the summer means
that grassfires are rendered
fiercer and more dangerous. Bare
patches appear in grass pad-
docks where such fires have
occurred.
“Arnica”; The secret of rear-
ing chickens and poults with-
out loss is the most important
part of poultry-farming, and
should be carefully studied. Un-
productive eggs, culls and acci-
dents account for four-fifths of
the chickens expected to be
reared. Unless a farmer is a
good hand at chicken-rearing it
will pay him well to buy sexed
chickens even if the price seems
high. Money spent on proper
houses for chickens is a saving
in the long run. Overcrowding
should be avoided and ventila-
tion and shelter from winds
attended to, as well as proper
feeding, watering,'etc. Leaflets
are available free of charge
from the Department of Agri-
culture.
“Sarina”: Small patches of
thornless burrs and young lan-
tana bushes are better pulled
than cut. Pulling gets rid of
them permanently and slightly
loosens the topsoil, to the benefit
of the grasses. If the soil is
well disturbed, as when the
weeds are pulled out after rain,
broadcast some seed of hardy
grasses where the weeds have
been.
“Billjim”: To force winter
growth of rhubarb cover the
clump with a box or kero-tin
minus its bottom and with a
loose board placed over the top.
Inside the box put a layer of
fresh manure or green litter to
a depth of several inches. The
heat thus generated will force
the crown into growth.
“Big Billy”: When planting a
fruit-tree set it to the same
depth as that at which it was
planted in the nursery. Prepare
a hole large enough to accommo-
date the roots spread out. Re-
move topsoil and loosen sub-
soil with a fork. Add well-
rotted stable manure or compost
or three or four handfuls of
blood-and-bone and mix with
subsoil. Place topsoil around
the roots and firm it down.


A complete range of
Mechanical Power Transmission
Equipment for all
Industry
£
J.C.LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY. 8X5841.
20-26 QUEEN'S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE. MX 3101.
Leather Belting • Rubber Belting • Conveyor and Elevator Belting • Round
Leather Belting • Textile Leathers • felting Accessories • Leather Packings •
High-Speed Grinder Belts • V Belt Drives • Industrial Clutches • Plain Bearings
• Anti-friction Bearings • Steel Shafting • Shafting Couplings • Shafting
Hangers • Microid Bearing Metals • Porous Bronze Brushes • Gears • Pulleys
• Wall Brackets • Variable Speed Drives • Ludowici Pivot Drive • Fla-Seal
Oil Retainers • Composition Packings • Lutex Industrial Plastics • Industrial
Gloves • Rubber Hose • Lemcol High Quality Trucks , Wheels, Castors, etc . •
Perry Chain Drives • English (i Brook ” Motors • “ Huwood ” Ball Bearing
Conveyor Rollers • “ Kohlswa ” Ewart’s Type Detachable Link Chain •
Beldam’s Packings and Jointings .
ESTD. 1858
wouldn’t mind having the money
we got for sticks in them days.”
“If you could buy what it
bought then,” says Charlie.
They agree, solemnly. The
crowd, the self-important crowd
which hurries and scurries every-
where and nowhere with intent,
is now of no importance. Jim’s
shyness and separateness are
gone. He stands on the con-
demned wharf like a benevolent
valuer, appraising the present in
the light of the past with little
credit to the present.
“The timber that went into the
mill,” he says. “You don’t get
it today.”
“No heart then,” says Charlie
Hodges.
“No thirteen-foot-six tallow-
woods,” says George.
Jim chuckles, condescendingly
perhaps, but then he has a posi-
tion to maintain, that status of
the old days when Jim was pre-
eminent.
“Remember the time,” he says,
“when the bullocks near went
to that damned sandbank?”
George remembers. “Laugh,
Jim? Lord, I’ve often laughed
over that.” He turns to Charlie.
“Jim brought them bullocks
down and was going to drop the
logs in the water. What hap-
pens? When the water takes
the weight off them logs away
go the bullocks as though they
must get to that sandbank or
die.” , ,
“But I called them back, re-
minded Jim.
“So you did,” chuckles George
in agreement.
They are silent, remembering
the wharf as it had been, the
produce heaped upon these now
rotting timbers.
“Friendship in them days,’
says George. “It was different.”
“Do you reckon, now?” says
Jim eagerly. It is a thought he
has been fostering these many
years.
“Ah, yes,” says Charlie sadly.
“They aren’t as friendly now as
they used to be.” He looks
sorrowfully towards the crowd,
“People is more selfish now,” he
concludes.
TIM wonders. It seems to
him, for all the changes and
chances of life, that these people
are as happy, perhaps, as when
he was young. If there are no
slim white birds of eighteen-
footers and only these small
craft, then the race is enjoyed
as much as the races he had
once watched. Children, hang-
ing from the old girders, are
shrill with excitement. Older folk
behind them are gripping their
hands as the craft turn the
eastern buoy and come swiftly
into the straight for the home
run. Jim thinks that if his eyes
were better he would make out,
even, the men in the small craft,
but they are only spots to him.
In any case, he would not know
them.
But when the names are called
they are names he knows mostly.
He is glad of that, as though the
past has not altogether been
broken with, for all he says and
Charlie and George say.
Charlie’s wife comes to claim
him. She is sweet to Jim, and
remembers him with trifling en-
thusiasm, but is intent upon
dragging her husband off.
George very lamely tells Jim
about his success in life, but Jim
does not seem to hear. He has
little to tell George about suc-
cess, which is probably why he
does not comment.
He steers clear of the publi-
can’s booth, still refuses to be
tempted by “a pound for six-
pence.” He has a cup of tea and
a few sandwiches, a mere relic
of what he would have been
able to purchase for a shilling
years ago. In fact, he remem-
bers, lunches were free in those
days, and a great deal of
laughter and fun went on with
jokes at the expense of those
who were pouring tea ; a heavy,
hearty sort of humor that spared
nor hurt none. Jim, as he bites
his dainty sandwiches, feels it
is a great pity the old days ever
passed'
But the sculls reverse his
opinion. His innate honesty
convicts him. He is forced to
admit they had never seen sculls
like these. The craft themselves
are light as a feather, but cun-
ningly fashioned. Their pointed
prows cleave the water, skim
over it, glide at the slightest in-
sistence of the sculler and
finally draw up in line for the
announcement of the handicap.
And what a race it is! Jim,
who can barely see the sculls at
the eastern end of the stretch,
does, nevertheless, not miss the
start. He disapproves of a
course in the deep water, ap-
plauds the positions near the
sandbank and senses a tighten-
ing excitement as the sculls shoot
away. Backwards and forwards
go the rowers, their bodies
rhythmic in movement, the
water lying smoothly beneath
the moving craft. This is the
time when the crowd leaves its
pastimes, throwing at the
wicket, ice-creams and refresh-
ments. People tumble and tip
from the cars and buses and
come running forward, the ex-
citement growing as the specta-
tors are unable to refrain from
screaming. Jim finds himself
almost shouting as once he
would always shout. The fore-
most sculler is pulling in long,
easy movements, his follower in
shorter, stronger urges, and
when they draw near and pass
the wharf there is little distance
between.
Dizzy with excitement and
almost crazed with shouting, the
children are in danger of falling
into the water. One spectator,
unable to contain himself, fol-
lows an urge and dives into the
water, his body cleaving towards
the fleeing sculls. Then a shout
goes up as the man who has
pulled easily passes the buoy and
flags.
AND now the day is nearly
finished. The woodchop,
with choppers every bit as good
as in his own day, have a strange
fascination for Jim. He would
like, even, to chop, but has to
admit his age. Charlie and
George seek him out again and
get to talking about chops in the
past. Jim listens to them with
tolerance and mild enthusiasm.
Gradually it has been dawning
on him that with so much to
remember he needs no pity, nor
has he any real loneliness. He
thinks that when he returns in
the bus he will be able to retain
much of his old confidence.
folks," he says, and his
a trifle tired. “Now, folks” 18
have many of the old-tml u e
today who remember Garl^
Point as it was in the gotd 8
ov« the™!
'ST'gS. iSU h t^
him r iendS H nding ,h «e Wflh
him, George Harrap and Charlie
Hodges. They tell me \T
Whelan sank a lot of W
this place, but, then“°,Ef S
bank they put at the mouth Z
the river finished all that.” f
‘So it did. So it did ”
,im > half-ajoud. rem^mbS
now all h ,s dreams tor the place B
?n n a n P l a T ed a hotel °n the
hdl behind the wharf, and rows
of houses where now omy a fe ;
u V he ® sher “ en ’ s h ™« stand
He had seen then, as in a dream
the produce of the North Coast
come pouring through his
streets passing the pubs, wagons
loaded, trucks packed, all goi„!
to the mill and the wharf. The
wharf, too, had grown, stretched
down the river so that the
hungry maws of the waitina
craft might be fed before they
glided away. y
And, as Jim stands and re-
members, the announcer’s voice
passes on to another subject, the
words mumbling wearily. ’ To
the east where the scullers were
rises a cloud of swans, black and
white or silver almost where
they shadow in the sun. Their
rising waves are almost pulsa-
tions.
“Swans,” says George sud-
denly, wistfully almost, thinking
perhaps of the city, which, for
all its fafade, might now seem
only the hollow fulfillment of a
promise. George stares at the
swans.
“Well, I’ll be going, Jim,” he
says after a silence. “See you
next year, eh?” This with a
trifle more of enthusiasm. “I
suppose they’ll hold these things
yearly like we used to, hey?” It
is his last attempt at heartiness.
He sees his wife approaching.
“You’re a lucky dog, Jim,”
says Charlie with a burst of
honesty. “I’d like to be in these
parts still.” He shakes hands
with Jim and follows after
George.
T IM is not sad at their going.
He watches them absently,
George with his fussy wife and
Charlie, alone, making towards
his car. It is a nice car, smooth,
well polished, large, but it is
remote from Jim as though it
does not exist, not, anyway, m
his world of thought. George s
car is not quite as big, but it is
shiny also. He watches the two
cars drive along the patch ot
sand and couch which had once
been the main street of ms
famous town.
Then Ned toots the horn ot
the bus and the stragglers come
from everywhere, tired but
happy, converging on
dreading his departurei * tha “
them. Jim walks, too, not
nuickly but confidently, detached
?“om V strong emotions rf
youth and yet uncritical- . rns
fore he reaches the bus he turns
tn take a last look at the wue
water'which now has
upon it. roaring and revving,
twisting cavor “ Js sailing
them laughing an ~ PP ]'^|dren
on the oW log*
still Play wher | h * pSple are
rry, W S fo?V.ha P ., eon-
ttm%henhedor,irnSto
the bus, retam ® 5 respect, and
dence. He senses P his fel .
even admiration, who
low-passengers. ts oU t;
built a town. wha tare
“Take her away, N
we waiting tor. qU es-
This, of course, loath>
tion, but Ned, slight
revs the engine, awa y with
sound of gears and is ,
tnf to anfroaftog -


Str
, Medem
W.
Price
£7/5/6
JlBSl
■ 'V
/V///
i§
1
You couldn't choose a more
exciting and modern gift than
Philishave for "the man who
matters," And you couldn't
choose a more sensible one.
Philishave means faster, cleaner
shaves the end of "stubble-
trouble" smoother cheek and
chin that you, too, will appreciate.
/UahmC
. ••
The Revolutionary
Her/ Electric Sh
—famous as Philips Lamps
a product of
Philips Electrical Industries of
Australia Ply. Ltd.
PS6-48
Legal Notice.
IN the Estate of MARY ANN BROWN
and MARY HELEN DEVINE
BROWN, both formerly of Thomwood
Estate, Mlanje, Nyasaland.—PUßSUANT
to an Order of His Majesty’s High Court
of Justice in Nyasaland made on the 12th
day of April 1950 and directing that
enquiries be made as to possible claimants
in the matter of the Estate of Mary
Helen Devine Brown deceased Cause No 9
of 1947 and in the matter of the Estate
of Mary Ann Brown deceased Cause No.
10 of 1947 persons claiming to be the
heir at law of the said Mary Helen
Devine Brown late of Mlanje in the Nvasa-
land Protectorate living at the time of
the death of the said Mary Helen Devine
Brown on the Twenty fourth day of
November One thousand nine hundred and
forty six and persons claiming to be the
heir at law of the said Mary Ann Brown
deceased late of Mlanje aforesaid living
at the time of the death of the said Mary
Ann Brown on the Nineteenth day of
August One thousand nine hundred and
forty six or persons claiming to be next
of kin according to the Statutes for
the distribution of intestate estates of the
said Mary Helen Devine Brown and/or
the said Mary Ann Brown living at the
time of their respective deaths as aforesaid
or to be the legal personal representatives
of such of the said next of kin as are
now dead or persons claiming to be en-
titled under the Wills and Codicils of the
abovenamed deceased or Charitable Insti-
tutions and persons claiming to be
entitled under the said Wills and Codicils
of the said ARE by their soli-
citors on or before the Thirteenth day of
November One thousand nine hundred and
fifty to come in and prove their claims
at the Chambers of His Honour the
Chief Justice for Nyasaland at the High
Court of Blantyre or in default thereof
they shall be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said Order. Monday
the Fifteenth day of January One thou-
sand nine hundred and fifty one at 9
o’clock of the forenoon at the said
Chambers is appointed for the hearing
and adjudicating upon the claims. Dated
this Twelfth day of April, One thou-
sand nine hundred and fifty.—(Sgd.)
M. J. GOW, Registrar, High Court of
Nyasaland.
PEAPES clothe men and their sons
I i
VIYELLA PYJAMAS FOR BOYS
In medium stripes of blue and yellow, blue grey and
yellow, grey, white and blue, in sizes 24-34. ...... 49/6.
VIYELLA SHIRTS
With collar attached and one pocket. Offered in neat
checks of blue, fawn, and red. Sizes \xn.
collars ............ 48/6.
STARCHLESS (SOFT) DRESS SHIRTS
These starchless dress shirts save you the cost and delay
of sending to the laundry. They can be easily laundered
at home. Simply iron while damp. The use of thin
boiled starch is optional.
In Marcella with starchless collar attached. Starch-
less front and soft double cuffs. Sizes Sin. collar,
34/6. With starchless collar attached, soft front and
double cuffs. Sizes to collars, 39/-. Semi-stiff
style with starchless neckband, starchless front and
starchless single cuffs. Sizes 14-17 neckbands. 32/6.
VIYELLA
PYJAMAS
for
cosy warmth
World famed Viyella gives you
cosy warmth on the coldest
nights, without weight or uncom-
fortable bulk. It does not shrink
or felt and is obtainable in sizes
SM to XOS.
In the new plain marl shades of
blue, grey, green or brick, 75/6.
In striped designs ......... 70/,-.
m
..wC
mmm
*******
Peapes specialise in correct dress wear accessories and full stocks are kept of collars, bow ties, dress
vests, links, studs, scarves, hosiery, shoes, etc., and are always ready to help in the selection of the
correct dress for special occasions.
PEAPES PTY. LTD.
NEXT WYNYARD STATION, 285 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Hunter Street, Sydney)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Tn huv copy of Benjamin Jowett’s
translation of PMO.-4849.
Words and name of author of verse
beginning: —
Tf -with pleasure you are viewing
The work a man is doing
Tf you like him or you love him
Tell him now. _4 848t
Tn buv copy of The Garden Path
by M. H. Ellis. —4850.
To buy copies of Pan in the Parlor,
rue Cautious Amorist. Age of. Con-
sent and TheCounnJrom Fiji- all
by Norman Lindsay.—4851.
To buy books by Damon Runyon.
-r4852.
To buy Atlas and Cyclopaedia of
Ireland , published 1904 by Murphy
and McCarthy, and History of the
Catholic Church in Australia by Car-
dinal Moran. —4853.
Information Sought.
Cause of and treatment for mange
in dogs ?
Although frequently associated with
skin eczema due to incorrect diet,
true mange in dogs and domestic
animals is due to the mange-mite, or
acarus. As a parasitic infection the
disease is most resistant to treatment,
especially that of the follicular or
black-mange type. It occurs on the
back, base of tail, etc. For treatment,
mix one part black sulphur with four
parts lard, and smear over affected
parts daily. Shut the animal up for
an hour or two after applying so that
rolling in dirt is avoided; later give
free access to grass and water. Keep
a lump of stick-sulphur in the drink-
ing-water as a blood-purifier, and
wash twice weekly with a good dog-
soap.
* * ♦ *
Are acacias ( wattles ) suitable for
growing in Sydney coastal areas ? Also
cultural hints.
Provided there is sufficient growing
space acacias make good garden sub-
jects. Since many people are allergic
to the pollen, do not grow them near
bedroom windows or often-used
rooms. Acacias do not need strong
manure or fertiliser, but a little leaf-
mould is helpful; also an occasional
watering should be given until the
young shrubs are established. They
will stand pruning to any shape.
Selections of varieties will provide
flowers from June to October, but
since these shrubs are often in short
supply it is advisable to put in orders
early with nurserymen in your district.
* * * *
When should native flora be
pruned? What manures are most
suitable and when should they be
applied? '
Prune native plants after the flower,
ing is over. Cut bottlebrush limbs
off behind the spent flower-heads, and
shorten the limbs on Christmas bush,
Geraldton wax, boronias and waratahs
to force new growth for next year’s
flowering. Leaf-mould and sand are
most natural helps to native flora,
but a little rotted manure spread over
the soil at the base of the stems and
watered in is not injurious. Avoid
strong fertilisers and also fowl- and
sheep-manure.
* * * *
Why is Australia comparatively
immune from earthquakes?
Earthquakes invariably occur along
recognised belts, unstable portions of
the earth’s crust known as seismic
faults. Australia at present does not
come within the influence of one of
the greater of these faults, hence its
comparative freedom from earth-
quakes. At the same time there are
weak belts where small disturbances
occasionally occur for instance,
along the Gulf coast, south of
Adelaide.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
Origin of the phrases (1) “The
primrose path” and (2) “Appeal from
Philip drunk to Philip sober” ?
(1) Meaning “way to destruction”;
probably from two phrases of Shak-
speare: “primrose path of dalliance”
in “Hamlet” and “primrose path to
the everlasting bonfire” in “Macbeth.”
(2) Valerius Maximus relates that a
foreign woman undeservedly con-
demned by Philip of Macedon (who
reigned 359-336 8.C., father of Alex-
ander the Great) in his cups, declared
that she would appeal to Philip, “sed
sobrium” —“but when he was sober.”
* * ♦ «
What was the Rye House plot?
A conspiracy in 1683 among some
of the more violent followers of the
first Earl of Shaftesbury to seize
Charles II and his brother on their
return from Newmarket at the Rye
House in Hertfordshire. The plot
failed, but its discovery brought to
light a combination of Parliamentary
Whigs, who, while perhaps intending
no personal violence against the king,
contemplated compelling him to
summon a Parliament. Lord William
Russell and Algernon Sidney were
implicated in this and executed.
* * * *
Method of cleaning an enclosed
brick fireplace stained and blackened
by smoke ?
When ordinary scrubbing with hot
water and soap fails to dean them
satisfactorily they should be scrubbed
down with an old brush dipped in a
diluted solution of spirits of salts or
hydrochloric acid. This usually proves
quite effective. Three parts of water
should be added to one of acid and
- the solution applied carefully, so that
it does not come into contact with
the cement between the bricks, for
the acids act on cement and the joint-
ing would become loosened. After
treatment all traces of the chemicals
must be rinsed away.
Brief Answers.
M.W.: Search through newspaper
files would take too long. Suggest
you write to Dept, of Mines, Brisbane.
A.A.: (1) As far as can be
ascertained no Persian fat-tailed sheep
exist in Australia. (2) Quarantine
regulations prohibit the importation
of sheep and goats from any country
other than New Zealand, England,
Canada and America, from which
countries it is thought importation
would be impossible. (3) In Africa
the black-head Persian sheep is used
extensively for meat. (4) They are
used both as lamb and mutton in that
country. (5) It is thought that they
would be fairly immune to blowfly
strike. (6) The black-head Persian
ewe is used as foundation stock for
crossing with rams of British breeds
with much success. It is, therefore,
thought that they would cross quite
successfully with the Merino. (7) As
the importation into Australia is
prohibited, no idea of prices of
imported animals can be given. (8)
The Merino era of western Queens-
land is on the ascendancy S.C.:
Under the Q’land Workers’ Compen-
sation Act any jockey engaged to ride
for fee or reward in any horse- or
pony-race under the management of
any racing club or association is
deemed to be a worker employed by
such club or association S.N.:
Try Secretary, N.S.W. Billiards Clubs
of N.S.W., 140 Hawthorne-parade,
Haberfield (N.5.W.)... .G.S.: Write
Royal Australian Historical Society,
8 Young-street, Sydney E.C.T.:
Write Age and Invalid Pensions
Branch, Dept, of Social Services, 52
Carrington-street, Sydney 8.J.8.;
Publications are obtainable from
Alcoholic Foundation, Inc., P.O. Box
459 (Grand Central Annex), New
York 17, N.Y., U.S.A W.H.W.:
Such Is Life by Tom Collins was first
published in book form by The
Bulletin in 1903 at 4s. 6d. per copy.
J.J.H.: Dept of the Navy, Navy
Office, Melbourne, will furnish full
particulars on application.., .J.McP.:
It is an Italian racing-car J.R.:
(1) Ship-naming by a woman origi-
nated from the launching ceremonies
of the Phoenicians, when the High
Priestess was always the one chosen.
Then a ship was christened with blood
from a sacrifice, which ceremony is
now represented by a bottle of wine.
(2) Can’t place the origin of calling a
ship “she,” but it is generally
accepted as springing from the grace
and beauty of old-time sailing-ships.
The custom is age-old—the Latin for
ship, “navis,” being feminine gender.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Xante and address must appear on the MS. No liability, is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submittedj and no MS, will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor,
H.E.: Send us your address for
return of “The Clay Pigeon”
H.McC.: Read “The Man Who
Would Not Get His Hair Cut” to
your barber, C.G.: Will buy you
a soap-box if you promise to stop
submitting further efforts like that.
H.G.: Surely it doesn’t require
all those pages to describe the
raffling of a bottle of whisky....
R.S.W.: Tame J.D.W.: Just an-
other sundowner yearning for the past.
.... Bellerive: Purr on:
. ...S.G.: We’ve knocked that story
out so often that it must be punch-
drunk by now P.H.: Have read it
before W.C.C.: Can’t swallow the
tale about the judge who accom-
panied a private-detective on a divorce
raid... .P.P.: Dedicate it to Uncle
Joe and send it to the Kremlin....
J.M.M.: They drifted out on the ebb-
tide R.G.D.: Professor Bunk of
Bongo took the count C.A.C.:
It cheered us, as we pulled on our
galoshes, to read that “The rain is
done, the sun now shines” J.C.:
Four lines to stir the nation:
Wake up, Brothers ! Up and doing!
Save our land from strife and ruin!
Avoid the traitors’ evil ways!
Bring contentment to our days!
A.P.: Read Kendall’s “The Last
of His Tribe” F. 1.: “Nonsense”
it not even good nonsense P.M.J.:
A pallid quartette W.L.H.: Can
hear you saying when you finished
that mighty epic “Thank heavens!
That’s off my chest”... .J.U.McD.:
Liked the line about the trees indulg-
ing in “paens of creaking”....M.C.:
It adds nothing to our knowledge of
drovers or of blokes who have lost
their best mates C.J.M.: Not this
trip, but try again A.D.: Says
nothing that has not been said before.
J.W.: Muddled comparisons
M.M.H.: There’s going to be a lot
of poets out of work when the
breezes stop softly murmuring....
R. 8.: Poor verse and debatable
philosophy E.R.: Heavy going.
L.O.: Moves like a centipede on
crutches.
The IMPORTANCE OF CAST.
They have their fault’s
The shifty house cat’s.
But most important to
Wreck ha vie on rats.
In house’s and stores
Where lights are out,
Alert in the dark
They prowl about.
Acrobatic and swift
They pounce and leap,
Great protectors to
Dear children asleep.
They have their faults
The shifty house cats,
But most important to
Wreck havic on rats.


THE ORTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4ld. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Living Costs
The abandonment of her five-year-old.
child and subsequent attempted suicide
of”a young Sydney mother have drawn
attention once more to the wretched hous-
ing problem in N. S. Wales. The 22-
year-old woman, ,deserted by her husband,
had been living in a semi-basement, damp
and unlighted, in the house of relatives.
Leaving her child in a city theatre, she
went home and slashed her wrists. She
was admitted to the Reception House
and her son was charged with being a
neglected child. Whatever that may mean.
The housing situation, not only m
Sydney but in the larger country towns,
is perhaps the worst legacy left to us by
the war. . , , .. ,
A visit to a hotel in any substantial
country town will furnish examples of
young parents, the husband a public ser-
vant on transfer, a municipal employee,
a journalist, a bank clerk or traveller,
who have been forced to pay the high
cost of hotel board for themselves and
families.
In the city, rent of rooms, apart-
ments and flats (so called) take anything
up to 50 per cent, of a man’s income.
Add to this the steadily spiralling cost
of food, electricity and fares, and the
spectre of debt and poverty is only too
apparent. As for savings, the idea will
fetch a laugh in most young middle-class
homes. , . ,
The average rent of a newly-acquired
three-roomed flat in my suburb nudges
four quid, and the cost of living, or rather
feeding, takes the rest of the white-collar
bloke’s money. Fares, too, have been
increased, with an extra special increase
at the week-ends to tax leisure, and meals
in city cafes hop upwards by threepences
and sixpences practically every month.
Where will all this end? Fortu-
nately my child has not reached school
age yet; when she does I can bank on
spending at least another quid a week.
As for more kids. I’ll need a qualified
accountant to show me how before I
embark.
There are literally thousands of middle-
class people in the same position. The
hardest-hit are those who left their
prospective wives, homes and children to
enlist between 1939 and 1945. Those who
did not do so largely retain their pre-
war suburban homes at pre-war rents,
their children were delivered at pre-war
rates in pre-war hospitals, and many of
their assets were purchased in those balmy
days before Hitler marched into Poland.
It isn’t very encouraging for the middle-
class man who carries the burden of edu-
cation and responsibility in the com-
munity. Mostly his salary is less than
a thousand a year and, not being tied
to the basic wage, does not rise with that
political skyrocket, except in rare in-
stances. To fulfil his place in the com-
munity he has to educate his children to
his own standard, to dress well, to meet
and mix with his fellows, and present
some sort of front to the world. None
of these duties—and they can rightly be
called that —are included in the computa-
tion of his ordinary living needs.
It’s about time somebody thought about
this problem. In all ages astute states-
men have realised the value of the
burghers, the bourgeoisie, the educated
man, the professional. Our legislators
would seem to be doing the best they can
to bring about the classless society of
Lenin and Marx by trying to rub that
class out.— Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Shire Councils
The work of the shire councils is be-
coming more involved. As debit balances
swell and in many cases exceed the legal
overdraft, the State Government con-
tinues to hand down more duties to, and
ratepayers, clubs and institutions expect
more work and financial assistance from,
the council.
Back in the days when shire finances
were kept on a more even keel the works
carried out by the shires were confined
almost entirely to roads, bridges and
water-supply, drainage, lighting and sani-
tary services in the towns within a shire.
Now the shire councils are called upon
to finance or, in some cases, contribute
towards the cost of baby-health centres,
health inspectors, libraries, the country
fire authority, and many other works
handed down to them by various Govern-
ment departments. Other public bodies,
when they wish to take advantage of a
£l-for-£l or £2-for-£l Government grant
for improvements to the town swimming-
pool, recreation reserve or some building
project, put a proposition to the council
and the result usually is that the council
has to foot the bill from its badly-
depleted finances.
All these extra jobs that are thrust
upon the shires, plus the red-tape which
always comes into the picture whenever
the Government shows its hand, add to
the administrative, as well as the working,
costs of a municipality. Councils, which,
in years gone by, carried out big develop-
mental programmes of road and bridge-
building with only a secretary and an
engineer (and the engineer had to travel
the shire by horse-and-buggy) now do
less road work (the real work of a shire
council), but employ extra staff, such as a
cadet-engineer and clerical assistance.
The time is long overdue when lines
should be drawn between the jobs of
the shire council, the Government and
other public bodies which so frequently
seek shire finance —and influence —in
order to take advantage of Government
subsidies.
When a shire council increases rates to
meet the costs of the additional burdens
“Yes, I Was looking at the Jersey, too —nice animal, isn't she?”
and to stave off financial disaster, and
when ratepayers cannot see where the
money has been spent on the fast-
deteriorating roads, the shire-councillor,
who docs his job for a free feed each
month and pays his travelling, election
and other expenses out of his own pocket,
comes in for more abuse than does the
£lOOO-a-year politician who, to a large
extent, is responsible for passing so much
work —and the buck —down to the shire
councils and their unpaid councillors.
Beau Forte (Vic.).
Food Parcels
Our morning paper here in Eng-
land reports this item: “The Lord
Mayor of Sydney today appealed to
Australians to continue sending food-
parcels to people in Britain, The lifting
of points-rationing and the freeing of a
few more articles had not eased the
burden of British housewives, he said.”
During the war Australians were un-
believably kind to us, and, like thousands
of others, I have spent hours framing
“thank-you” letters that would convey a
little of the pleasure those parcels brought.
The food position now, however, is
different. We can buy any number of
eggs—duck eggs, lid. each, hen eggs at
prices varying up to 3s. a dozen.
I have just been travelling over half
of England and found only two people
who wanted any of the fat-coupons on
my ration-cards. One was living in an
institution that took all her coupons, and-
she was glad of a ration for her private
use ; the other was a householder who
had invited 23 children from an orphan-
age to tea, and she was glad to have
extra butter for sandwiches.
True, the lifting of points-rationing
has made little difference to housewives,
but that is because most people did not
need to use their points to get all the
groceries they wanted. Sugar is scarce,
but golden syrup is plentiful; fresh meat
is scarce, but tinned meat is available;;
there is also plenty of fresh and tinned
milk, including sweetened condensed-
milk. Dried-fruit is short, but we can
buy plenty of good cakes, including some
from Australia.
Bread, cakes, biscuits, chocolate bis-
cuits, fruit and fish can all be bought
freely without queueing, and although it
would be easy to compile a list of foods
that fetch fancy prices, such as glace
fruits, there is an ample and varied
supply of moderately-priced food.
There are, of course, the very poor
people who can’t afford to buy cakes and
tinned meat, but that is a problem in
many countries, including Australia, and
it should not be confused with wartime
difficulties. , .
To verify the foregoing, dont consult
someone who left England a month or
two ago, or look up letters you received
at Christmas-time —it is only lately that
the changes have become so marked and
housewives can go shopping with carefree
smiles and large baskets. —K. B. (Here-
fordshire, England).
Social Services
Where does the social-service tax go
(B. 10/5/’50)? Well, where do child
endowment, pensions, etc., come from?
To these, in Tasmania, we have the added
benefit of free medicine, hospital and
dental treatment if we want them
I, for one, was grateful for that when
my child struck a bad patch last year.
I’d still be paying for the penicillin in-
jections alone if the service had not been
free. Nothing seemed a trouble to the
doctors or nurses, who took the greatest
interest in the child*.
In contrast, I got a doctor to my other
child, who had whooping-cough. His
visit, plus medicine at the chemists, cost
over £3, and I did the nursing.
Both children have had immunisation
through the school medical service and
have their teeth attended to by the school
dental clinic, which is free and highly
satisfactory.— Blair Athol (Tas.).
Communists
My grandparents, with three children,
canje to Australia in 1842 and settled on
the land (virgin country) nearly 200
miles west of Sydney, where several more
children were born. My father, who was
a small lad on arrival, eventually married
and raised a family of 12 children,
several of whom enlisted for active ser-
vice abroad, first to the Soudan and later
to France in 1914-18. It was instilled into
the entire family that they owed their
wellbeing to this land and the British
Empire.
Now in the evening of my life, I can
look back and give thanks for the coun-
sel and wise teachings of my parents and
grandparents, who taught us love,
obedience and allegiance to our native
land. But I cannot understand the
psychology of a large number of Aus-
tralians who permit their destinies to be
ruled by a body of men who recognise
no allegiance to this country and who
are emissaries of a foreign Power.
Unfortunately this anti-British element
has wormed its way so thoroughly into
many of our trade-unions, and now that
the present Government is trying to re-
move- it the cry is that this Government
is attacking unionism. That is utterly
false, and heaven help the unionist if the
Communists take over:
■ Our “Labor” politicians, concerned
with their own vanities and power, are
playing right into the hands of these
traitors by blocking the Government’s
measure to curb them, i It makes one
wonder whether they aren’t in sympathy
with them.
Surely true Australians must see the
urgency of rooting out this enemy, and
rooting them out to «?nrL
that they will never again oi°° d pUr Pose
in Australia.—T. A. (N.S
Training Civil Air-Crews
r st **
S et them from the R.AA F m to
Although the great bulk of dvfl 5 -’ s °)-
pilots today are ex-R,AAP If airl >ne
not mean that the can reW d ° es
Air Force to supply them with S°f Qthe
crews. lin a U future
Most of the present pilots
to R.A.A.F. requirements at th* SUrplus
the war and, keen on flyif 2 “£ « d of
only too willing to get in thV‘^ y Were
(although many cl|L*c|f
boring). The airlines got “ re a i # l mg «
in these men, many of
thousands of hours’flying nniJl m had
in the service equivalent's
aircraft. commercial
Airlines will have to train their ™
pilots much more than they have i l n
past. They will have to W
schools similar to the R A A F J rainm B'
air-cadet system, in which youthsim!? ent
about 15 years, do academic training !!
snrely rUdimen,S ° f flyin B sl °4 b«
No doubt the companies would u.
rushed with entries and could nick JS
choose wijh ease. Many of thf pk 2
aircraft will be out of date in another wa
or two, although they will be united
worthy. These would be ideal Wail:
planes after the prospective pilots Sa
learnt the elementary lessons of airman
ship in lighter aircraft.
Airline pilots are getting older, and
their replacements are not in sight unless
Australian airlines get together and discuss
a common approach to the problem
Unless it is tackled within the
next 12 months the companies’ plans for
expansion may be hindered by lack of
crews.— Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Iluka
I can’t find the slightest economic justi-
fication for an artificial deepwater-nort
at Iluka (N.S.W.).
The‘reason for this port is to do away
with the apparent absurdity of moving
goods, by rail or coaster, hundreds of
miles to the nearest major port, in this
case not Sydney but Newcastle. It de-
pends for its success on its ability to pro-
duce sufficient traffic to persuade overseas
ships of the right type to call regularly,
and on the production of some evidence
to show tMt a saving in costs will result.
The large modern cargo-liner, on which
most of our export trade depends, has
much in common with large freight-
trains, semi-trailers and aeroplanes. It
must load and unload the maximum
amount of traffic at the minimum number
of ports if it is to pay its way, and it
would take an enormous amount of
freight to persuade even an 8000-tonner
to use Iluka.
Where’s that freight coming from?
Timber? The trade is almost moribund
and can hardly keep up with domestic
demand. We used to export sleepers
which were shipped from Coffs Harbor,
a few miles away, but we can’t spare them
any longer? Dairy produce? Increasing
population and falling production is no
going to leave much in the way of an ex-
portable surplus of that. What else.
wheat of the nor’-west? It’s of no mterert
to the refrigerator ship, and tb ®
which do handle it could probably takei
from Goffs Harbor as they did the
Sl The?; with the promised milway from
Inverell to Iluka you ran_agai«sl *
major problem of costs. Th
will start from 2000 ft. at Inver ,
over the highest part of the ra g
tween 4000 ft. and 5000 ft. an
down the precipitous eastern
coast. Costs would P™ b h ably ub j e ct to
£50,000 a mile, it y. ould b f lld ciry no
intense road c °mp e t 0
passengers, would b ® b ° t over the har-
operate, would be flat- ® of the yea r,
vest months and dead the charges
Combined losses and domical figure,
would amount to an asShtenaiice
Add capital, operating: , d arr j ve at
charges for the port an Y c()sts to
a total many times what it and
feed the existing P orts y
coaster. A flourishing P or |
I’d like to good it li nkcd
on that coast, and I d j. d a j so like
by. rail with the hinterland co asters
to see a revival of river po*
which used to serve m are
from the Tweed down, the f
vanishing, and you can effort to do
pression that r tbe sa ke of d °. J
something merely fo b t and wlt
it without any justificaUon-
out any , really
t Transporticus (Singap


TALKIES
"Four Steps in the Clouds."
Xhe best naturalistic European films
go almost as much to a formula as the
Hollywood romantic film: the naturalistic
formula is to throw a group of everyday
people into an extraordinaiy set of cir-
cumstances, and see what they do. The
novelty of the European film for people
used to Hollywood films is its wit and its
balance; thus the commercial traveller’s
wife in “Four Steps in the Clouds”
(Sydney Variety) interrupts her nagging
to adjust his tie—Hollywood would not
have allowed so much kindness to an un-
sympathetic role.
Moreover, the tie and the suit look
like a commercial, traveller’s well-worn
clothes— coming out of the picture-show,
one could have picked Paolo Bianchi
(Gino Cervi) off the streets of Sydney—
Hollywood clothes are new for the film.
Anyway, Paolo, on his way with a
sample-case of confectionery, meets
Maria (Adriana Benetti) in a train ; he
annoys the guard, who officiously puts
him off the train because he cannot show
his season-ticket; he decides to make the
rest of the journey by bus, and finds him-
self again with Maria. The bus-driver,
elated over the birth of his first child,
runs the bus into a ditch ; Maria confides
that she has been deserted by her lover,
is going to have a baby, and is on her
way home. She asks PaOlo if he will
come home with her as her husband. If
he will merely make an appearance she
will find a way of explaining his early
departure.
The plot is uncovered the following
morning; Paolo makes a stirring appeal
on behalf of the girl to her father (Aldo
Silvani), and returns to his fiat in the
early morning, and to his wife’s voice
telling him to fix the children’s milk. This
was the scene on which the show opened
—so much has happened in 24 hours —
but the wit of situation runs right through
such films, and decorates even the inci-
dents that keep them moving, as in the
fine set of studies of the bus-driver and
his passengers, or the little comic inter-
lude of Granpa Matteo (Giacinto Mot-
teni), sleeping by day and playing himself
chess by night (“I always win”), which
enabled Paolo to prove that he had not
spent the night with Maria.
The girl is very properly a little care-
worn throughout the show, but in the
scene in the haycart, where she and Paolo
confess that they might have been very
much in love had things been different,
she is extraordinarily beautiful.
"Passport to Pimlico."
This highly diverting English comedy
(from Ealing Studios) poses the delight-
ful situation of a small part of London
in which an old German bomb explodes
and uncovers incontrovertible evidence
that the area is the Kingdom of Bur-
gundy, immune from, or, as it subse-
quently turns out, unprotected by the laws
of England.
The evidence, ably examined and
authenticated by Professor Margaret
Rutherford, brings half the black-
marketeers and spivs of England to
Pimlico, where they can ply their trades
without legal interference; British manu-
factures “for export only” can be “im-
ported” ; there is no closing time, no
coupons, no police. An open go for all,
in fact.
The Home Office (Basil Radford and
Naunton Wayne: “Aliens, old boy ; that’s
your department.” “No, undesirable
aliens, old chap ; that makes them yours”)
deals with the situation by setting up
H.M. Customs on the boundaries of Bur-
gundy ; the Burgundians retaliate by
stopping the underground trains which
pass through their territory and demand-
ing passports; the H.O. counters by
cutting off water, etc.; the Burgundians
come back with sorties on the water-
mains and other vigorous opposition—
“because we’re British we’ll fight for our
right to remain Burgundians”—while the
rest of England suddenly becomes con-
scious of the cause of small oppressed
nations and launches a “Bundles for Bur-
gundy” campaign.
The fertile situation is worked out with
a fund of inventiveness and dry English
wit, which is never better than when it
is turned on its own institutions. Stanley
Holloway, as Mr. Pemberton, the store-
keeper who endeavors to form some sort
of government and negotiate with the
Home Office, demonstrates once again that
he is as much an actor as a comedian.
Raymond Huntley is the branch-manager
who suddenly finds he owns the bank
and Hermione Baddeley the owner of a
dress-shop who rejoices in the discovery
that coupons are no longer necessary.
All of them, along with dozens of other
players, turn in tiptop comedy perform-
ances, made credible by the accent on
character. (Sydney State).
"On the Town,"
“Intruder in the Dust,” M.-G.-M.’s fine
screen version of William Faulkiner’s
novel of race hatreds and mob law, had
a disappointingly brief run at Sydney St.
James, to be replaced by “On the Town,”
a lively musical with several distinctive
and diverting features. It is well pro-
vided with what one expects but rarely
receives from filmed musical comedy-
light tuneful ditties and comedy to match,
plus a measure of agreeable dancing, all
of it served in appropriate color and an
even more appropriate carefree mood.
For what it matters, the story has to
do with three sailors (Jules Munshin,
Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra) on 24
hours’ shore leave in New York. Two
of them are soon accommodated —Sinatra
with a predatory woman taxi-driver and
Munshin with a beautiful female anthro-
pologist, who is attracted by his resem-
blance to the Neanderthal man —while the
third leads the rest of them on a hectic
chase over most of the city for the girl
of his choice —Miss Turnstiles, the elected
queen-for-a-month of the underground
railways.
The film bursts into song or dance at
the slightest provocation, or, rather, it
subsides from them as little as possible.
It has that particular and essential exuber-
ance which characterises the best of stage
musicornedy and which infects every one
of its players. Of the musical numbers
the riotous doings in the museum leading
to collapse of the dinosaur’s skeleton
took this commentator’s fancy, but there
is also an infectious quality about the
initial sight-seeing tour in song-and-dance,
while Kelly’s nimble hoofing with his
Miss Turnstiles in a fanciful ballet has
its moments.
Of the players, Munshin is a natural
comic, Kelly an easy one, while Sinatra
seems td be following the Crosby pattern
and winning over his enemies by develop-
ing into a light comedian. The three of
them work together remarkably well.
Their partners—Ann Miller as the anthro-
pologist, Betty Garret as the taxi-driver,
and Vera Ellen as the subway queen—
behave and sing and dance as light-
heartedly as the piece requires.
"Now Barrabas Was a
Robber."
Warner Brothers have based a very
honest and intelligent account of life in
an English prison on the William Douglas
Home play. Along with its main theme
of an ex-Commando waiting to pay the
penalty for killing a policeman it presents
a handful of prisoners, their histories and
their reactions to prison life. The governor,
the warders and the chaplain and the
effects of their virtual incarceration are
also examined fairly and thoughtfully.
The murderer killed the policeman in
a half-drunken fit of temper for what he
considered was an insult to his girl;
there are the Irish insurrectionist, the
seedy old doctor turned to abortion, the
shoplifter with delusions of grandeur, the
bigamist, the young racetrack swindler
and the defaulting bank-teller. Their
little dramas are clearly and impartially
drawn and excellently acted. The
warders, conditioned by their environ-
ment from cruelty to good-natured toler-
ance, are also depicted with penetrating
impartiality. The governor, dealing with
problems ranging from applications foi
special letters to homosexuality, is beauti-
fully drawn by Cedric Hardwicke.
If the film lacks anything it is that, in
its care to avoid criticism or dramatics,
it has missed out on giving the impres-
sion of men shut off from the world. Had
it a touch of that tragedy reflected in an
animal pacing behind the bars in a zoo,
or of Wilde’s
... .sad men who looked
With such a wistful eye
Upon that little tent of blue
We prisoners called the sky,
it would have been complete.
"Riding High."
This Paramount effort at Sydney Prince
Edward has to do largely with a race-
horse called Broadway Bill in which
nobody has any faith except its owner,
and which frets, catches cold, is im-
pounded for its unpaid feed bill, released,
wins a 100,000-dollar race despite its
crooked jockey, drops dead from heart-
failure a few yards past the winning-post
and is finally buried with flags waving,
bugles blowing and James Gleason de-
livering a funeral oration while sundry
other hardbitten racetrack characters,
crooks and con.-men all wipe furtive
tears from their eyes.
Incredible as it may seem, all that
makes up into a fairly agreeable comedy,
largely because of the efforts of Bing
Crosby as the penniless but irrepressibly
optimistic owner of the nag. Crosby
turns down an heiress because his pros-
pective father-in-law stipulates that he
must give up his horse and settle down to
managing one of the family’s factories ;
he weathers all kinds of vicissitudes,
financial mainly, and scrounges around
for feed, stables, nomination- and ac-
ceptance-fees to get his horse started in
the race. He does it all with such infec-
tious good humor that he soon has his
audience in much the same optimistic
mood as himself.
He is ably assisted in confecting the
amusement by Raymond Walburn and
William Demarest as a couple of con.-
men, and by Percy Kilbride as the painful
pessimist who provides quarters and food
for the hope of the race. Coleen Gray
is the jilted heiress’s youngest sister who
turns down her father’s millions to follow
Mr. Crosby and his horses.
One scene; Raymond Walburn, work-
ing a nice little tipping racket, passes over
the name of a hopeless outsider for a suit-
able sum; the information spreads like a
fire and starts a rush on the books that
amounts almost to a panic. The old boy
watches the rush with good-natured
superiority, then a doubt flickers across
his face, then mounting uncertainty and
then he suddenly takes off with the mob
to plonk his ill-gotten gains on the no-
hoper.
"The PrincTof Peace."
The people who made this film, now at
Sydney Lyceum, no doubt had the very
best of intentions —to pay respects to the
reverend gentleman who inaugurated the
annual Passion Play at Witchita Moun-
tains, near Lawton, Oklahoma, by film-
ing the play. Why they had to surround
this otherwise fair presentation of scenes
from the life and crucifixion of Christ
with a cheap story replete with all the
maudlin sentiment so beloved of Holly-
wood remains a mystery. To render the
taste even more execrable, a six-year-old
brat of poisonous precocity is dragged in
as opportunity can be manufactured to
sing commonplace ditties in a saw-
through-galvanised-iron voice.
After the first painful hour of this by-
play a sincere attempt is made to bring
to life again the great drama. The acting
is nothing to write home about, though
the scenes at Calvary are moving.
What merit this portion of the film pos-
sesses is due entirely to the matchless
words uttered by Christ, played with
complete simplicity by Millard Coody.
But even the perfect climax —Jesus,
resurrected, after comforting Mary Mag-
delene outside the tomb, walking away
into the distant hills—had to be ruined
with an anticlimax to allow the recon-
ciliation between the parson and his
formerly estranged and agnostical brother.
Some soft excerpts from Handel’s
“Messiah” give added charm to the
scenes on the shore of the Galilean Sea
"Dancing in the Dark."
William Powell, as a once-famous actor
who has since lost everything except his
overbearing superiority and who finds his
way back into the money as talent scout
for a studio which decides to give him
one more chance, has a role he could
play in his sleep in this sentimental
stretch of technicolor from 20th Century
Fox (Sydney Mayfair). Mr. Powell’s
assignment is to go to New York, and,
under a blare of publicity abefut looking
for an unknown player for the leading
role in a new film, “discover” a leading
Broadway actress for the part. With fine
offhandedness he ignores his instructions,
wipes the Broadway lass and digs up a
really unknown young woman. The sub-
sequent complications and difficulties in
putting her across with his studio fill
out the running time comfortably,
humanise Mr. Powell and bring producer
Adolphe Menjou to the verge of
apoplexy. Betsy Drake is the girl, and
not bad either, and Mark Stevens the
other half of the heart interest.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 73
Across.
!•—Allowed to return and came
back with a Bohemian religious
reformer who slew his mother’s
suitors? (10)
6—Cook very young fish that once
cricketed for England. (3)
9 No longer a streetcar on a Rus-
sian range outside the walls. (10)
10— To turn to a perfume hoy. (4)
11 Bore would cause most discom-
fort to a giraffe. (4, 2,3, 4)
13—Muddled tot was in the van. (6)
15—Such maturity could be the ruin
of it. (8)
17— Stage hint — but it’s only partly a
tip. (3)
18— Gushing utterance. (8)
19— A bracer in no particular musical
(6)
“■0 When 1 swap ray sheep for your
cows. (5, 8)
24— Malevolent grimace backing a
thousand feet of film. (4)
s—These journalists let the wooers
swallow the resting-place. (3, 7)
(3)
■ Precipitation of a soap-bubble
hide-out by the promontory. (10)
fCRYPTIC TYPE.)
Down.
1 — A dame’s confused in the trea-
sure tea to scan the identical
article with certain dances. (6, 1,7)
2 Relent but note the condition of
an aeroplane rented while flying.
(3, 2)
3 Pale and floury condition of a
piece of fishing equipment in a
mess. (9)
4 Ronald, not Ronalda, has web-
feet for the maiden-name of the
first Mrs. Soames Forsyte. (5)
5 Imaginary inhabitant of the air. (5)
7 Road-groove layer and a Scot-
tish johnny finishing off a Euro-
pean. (9)
8— Squabble upset His Majesty with
150 donkeys and the proletariat.
(7, 7)
12 —Tread on this ancient city. (4)
14 — Violates when fed-up and then
lets down. (9)
15— Merry-making. (3)
16 — Idriess, are you living like an
Arab for a purpose ? (9)
17— Wheedle firmakiss. (4)
21 — Slackens the tension. (5)
22 Edward, the cadet reporter,
orders you to increase 500 to 75
million. (5)
23 — Wear away the interior perch
with extreme ease. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 72.


ROLLS RAZO
ann#:
df
m
1
*
»c>t>-
C'O
N>
S£i
<"<
gfl
PRICE £4
The famous
One Blade Safety . . .
Equipped with one hollow ground blade
which, with proper care and attention, will
last for many years. This self stropping,
self honeing Rolls Safety Razor has main-
tained its prestige and given perfect satis-
faction to countless thousands of men the
world over for more than a quarter of a
century.
Roll* Razor products are obtainable from all leading Stores, Chemists
and Tobacconists. If your local dealer is unable to supply, write direct to
us and we will see that your requirements are sent to any address in
the Commonwealth.
Cigarette Lighter Repair Service!
If your cigarette lighter is out of action because of damaged
or broken parts, we can repair it for you from our range of
spare parts for every well-known brand of Lighter. The cost
is low and we can offer a 48-hour service on repairs.
---
m
m
fm
inn
&&3H
£770
id^M
‘dcos
for the
ELECTRIC
DRY- SHAVER
A beautifully made precision
instrument which incorporates the
following outstanding characteristics.
1. It is fully guaranteed against de-
fective material or workmanship.
2. It has no motor and requires no
übrication.
3. There is only one efficient self sharpen-
ing, Twin-cutting head to be cleaned
after shaving.
With all these distinct advantages the
Rolls “Viceroy” Electric Dry Shaver is the
best that money can buy. Operates on
240 volts, A.C.
ssSi
ave
with tl
NON-ELECTRIC DRY
Without Electricity, Soap, Water, Brush
or Blades. This fully guaranteed non-
electric precision instrument is a useful
substitute for your Viceroy Electric
Shaver during Blackouts. The
ideal companion for a man when
travelling and on holiday camping
trips. Keep one in the glove box
of your car and shave where you like
when you like. Remember you need
no electricity, soap, water or blades to op-
erate the Viceroy Non-Electric Dry Shaver.
X.
SHAVER
£6lOO
ROLLS RAZOR
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PT Y. LTD.
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY • TELEPHONE BW 2038
Interstate Representatives: . , street, Melbourne-
QUEENSLAND: The Rolls Razor Co. of Aust. Pty. Ltd., 77 Queen Street, Brisbane. VICTORIA and TASMANIA: Godfrey Phillip (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Drury Lane, Lonsoaie
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris. Scarfe & Sandover Ltd., Hay Street, Perth. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell Ltd., Pirie Street, Adelaide.
