

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 71—No. 3694
Wednesday, November 29, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
SHAKESPEARE’S SHRINE, THE STRATFORD MEMORIAL THEATRE
STRATFORD-UPON-AVON, known throughout the world as the birthplace
of William Shakespeare, lies beside the River Avon in leafy Warwickshire.
Excavations have revealed that its history began centuries ago, before the
coming of the Romans, who established a settlement there. The Saxons
maintained a monastery and a mill, and by the thirteenth century it had
become a market town and the centre of an important grain-growing district.
This ancient town is full of character, still unspoiled by the ravages of time
and war, where historic buildings and tradition perpetuate the best in the
culture and life of English-speaking peoples.
Here, on 23rd April, 1564, was bom the greatest literary figure of all
time—a poet, philosopher and playwright, whose fame draws many thousands
of visitors to Stratford each year from all parts of the world. • The
Shakespearian properties, Which include the birthplace, the cottage of his wife,
Anne Hathaway, the garden of New Place, where he died, and the house of
his mother, Mary Arden, are all preserved as a national memorial and have
remained almost unchanged since Shakespeare’s day. The great poet died on
23rd April, 1616, at the age of 52, and was buried at the Parish Church
of Holy Trinity, which is within sight of the Memorial Theatre. , This
modern theatre was designed by Miss Elisabeth Scott and built in 1927 to
replace an earlier theatre destroyed by fire in 1926. Its cost, about £200,000,
was raised by national subscription, and its massive red brick exterior aroused
a great deal of controversy in 1932 when it was opened by the Duke of
Windsor, then Prince of Wales.
Here, beside the gently flowing Avon, is held each year the famous
Shakespeare Festival, which commences in May and continues until October.
Leading actors and actresses take part in the production of plays, which are
as eagerly attended today as when they were first performed over three
hundred years ago.
CHRISTMAS WINE FOR BRITAIN I
IH Have you friends or relatives in the United Kingdom? Here, then. Is news that must
interest you. Just imagine them toasting you at Christmas Dinner while you toast them
in the same wine twelve thousand miles away! That’s possible through the “WINE-FOE-
BRITAIN” scheme introduced by The House of Seppelt. Through their Eondon Office, Seppelts
will arrange for your friends in the Homeland to be supplied with Seppelt Wines before this
coming Christmas. You’ll have to act at once for Christmas will soon be here. Get details
of Seppelts “Wine-For-Britain” scheme; Write to The House of Seppelt, Box 1433 H, G.F.0.,
Adelaide, South Australia,
A
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
c.rwvir'P
StKViLb
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


Learn
ETrirermfiiim!l
at HOME
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL — ———
T° STOTT’S : Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.250) Age
The Red Page
PACIFIC ANTHOLOGY.
If the world is to remain comparatively
sensible there should always be some
special reason for the publication of a
book in a limited, de luxe edition. It is
obviously an error to cater merely for
the few collectors who are interested only
in binding, typography and rarity and
who, for all they care about the contents,
might as well be collecting beautiful
empty boxes ; and even where the interest
is in some special theme the actual
material preserved in the de luxe should
surely be of permanent intrinsic value.
Even the best publishers of limited
editions, such as the Golden Cockerel
and Nonesuch presses, have occasionally
made the mistake of printing ephemeral
material; and they have suffered accord-
ingly, for, however finely such books have
been made, they have not become col-
lectors’ prizes. But the general practice
of these presses, and of most others,
abroad and in Australia, has been to
make sure that the contents are worthy
of the covers.
There is a reason for publishing poetry
of high quality in a limited edition ; there
is a reason for art books ; there is a
reason for reprinting the classics and for
digging-up rare or important historical
documents; and there is a reason for
printing in this way works such as Lady
Chatterkys Lover which, though only a
blundering official, censorship would class
them as erotica, would undoubtedly
cause a rumpus if offered to the general
public. And the reason in all these cases
is to preserve valuable work, which might
otherwise be lost ; to call in the craft
of the fine printer and the passion of the
collector to unite in the service of
literature.
In the case ot The Pacific; Ocean of
Islands, edited by Charles Barrett and
published in handsome style by N. H.
Seward Pty,, Ltd., Melbourne, as with
one or two other recent Australian pub-
lications, it is difficult to see any par-
ticular reason for a de luxe edition.
'The contents are far from being worth-
less : on the contrary, a number of the
contributors, particularly the great Maori
scholar Peter Buck, author of Vikings of
the Sunrise, Professor W. I, Dakin and
the naturalist Evelyn Cheesman, have
written books which might well deserve
preservation in de luxe format. And if
there is little intrinsic literary merit in
the other contributions—or indeed in
those by the authors mentioned —the
articles by Geoffrey Ingleton, Nancy
Taylor, Geoffrey Rawson, Phyllis Mander
Jones, Frederick D. McCarthy, H. B.
Muir, Charles Barrett, C. Irving Benson,
Noel Lothian, William C. Groves, Rex
Ingamells and C. R. H. Taylor are all
capably written and authoritative.
But an anthology of articles about the
Pacific by contemporary writers —some,
like Peter Buck’s on the Bernice P.
Bishop Museum, merely a catalogue of
information; some, like Frederick D.
McCarthy on the canals of Ponape and
the images of Easter Island, concerned
with fascinating subjects; some, like
C. Irving Benson’s on South Seas
missionaries, written with force and pro-
found conviction—is not, however in-
teresting and useful it may be, the same
thing as an immortal work of literature
or an important historical document.
There is, of course, much to be said
for the book. The dark red binding, the
colored frontispiece from Sharpe’s
Monograph of the Birds of Paradise, the
nicely laid-out title-page, the paper and
typography combine to make it well up
to the high standard one has come to
expect from Australian limited editions.
Mr. Barrett has done an expert job of
editing (“Kan-tiki” for “Kon-tiki” is a
minor slip in proof-reading) and his
writers cover the vast theme of the
Pacific —its history and geography, its
flora and fauna, its native peoples and the
impact of white civilisation on them —
comprehensively and compactly. Many
of the individual articles are very read-
able —Rex Ingamells, for example, on the
novelists of the Pacific, such as Melville
and Stevenson—and some, such as Mr.
Rawson’s on the voyage of the Swallow,
contain some little-known history. The
anthology seems partly intended to serve
as a guide to students and collectors wish-
ing to specialise in the Pacific, and, as
such, should be useful. And, finally, any
book that directs attention to the waters
in which lies Australia’s destiny does a
good service to this country.
But when all that has been said, it
remains difficult to see any particular
reason for the existence of The Pacific in
ade luxe edition; and, in fact, when
promising new poets are being forced to
publish their books at their own expense,
when standard poets such as Hugh
McCrae are out of print, when no
novelist or poet can hope to have a past
work reprinted, when many important
Australian artists have never seen their
paintings reproduced in a book and when
so many classics of Australian history lie
entombed in the Mitchell Library it
seems a pity that all the energy, the good-
will and the craftsmanship that go to
make a de luxe edition should be diverted
to an anthology of this kind.
A Convict Novel.
A natural deference to the feelings of
society on the part of Australian histori-
cal novelists makes it almost inevitable
that the hero of a convict novel shall
have been wrongly convicted: thus Rufus
Dawes was innocent; Ralph Rashleigh
had strayed by accident into a scene of
smuggling; and Martin Hall, of Roy
Bridges’s The League of the Lord (Aus-
tralasian Publishing Co.), starving in
London, has wandered vaguely into some
stranger’s mansion, but whether or not
with intent to steal he knows not.
The effect of this, besides conveying
to subsequent generations the courteous
assurance that most of the convicts were
men of impeccable character, is instantly
to engage the reader’s sympathy for the
hero: it is nice, it is delightfully harrow-
ing to read the sufferings of some well-
bred person cruelly and unjustly
punished, but it might not be so nice to
read about some low brute and basher
for whom, if his punishment might seem
excessive by modern standards, there was
really no place in civilised society.
There is no particular need to quarrel
with this device of innocence ; it makes
for a pleasant kind of romantic novel.
Only there are times when it seems that,
after Marcus Clarke’s great melodrama,
there is no chance for another distinctive
and enduring novel of the convict sys-
tem ; and it is possible that a work which
could succeed would be one in the
Dostoevsky pattern, where Rasolnikov
had indeed committed his vile murder
and where every degradation of the
human spirit was explored. A novel, so
to speak, of the last ditch. It would not
be a pretty book ; it would hardly be
joyous ; but it might add something to
Marcus Clarke. So, too, of course, would
a cheerful picaresque.
Mr. Bridges seems to have had it in
mind to explore the possibilities of real-
ism. He hints at sexual perversion
amongst the convicts. And he sets out
to 'show how the system could brutalise
an innocent man almost beyond repair.
In some effective scenes, written in the
high-flown, unnecessarily cryptic dialogue
of Meredith and William Hay, Martin
Hall is shown, on his return to society
after years of convict life, utterly and
hopelessly cut off from his best friend,
from the girl he was going to marry (who
is, of course, by this time in love with
his friend), from his mother and, in
effect, from the whole of normal exist-
ence.
But then, just when the final revelation
of the destruction of Martin’s soul is
about to be made, Mr. Bridges seems to
decide that he has had about enough of
dreadful revelations. Mad with jealousy,
Martin murderously attacks his friend
and is promptly sent back to prison, for
many more hopeless years; and this is,
so far as it goes, very good ; but , if Mr.
Bridges wants to tell us that Martin has
shown here that he is so hopelessly de-
graded by the system that he has
developed some horrible kind of love for
it and so forces himself back to prison,
the point—and it might be a most strik-
ing one —is not emphasised.
The novel, if an effect of horror had
been aimed at, could really have finished
at that moment, with Martin striking at
his friend and falling back into the night
of convictism. But the theme finally
developed is, “This man hath penance
done, and penance more must do” ; and
after some black years Martin is re-
deemed by the gentle persuasions of
Bishop Willson, the -“Good Bishop,” and
comes out to renounce his fiancee with
goodwill to his friend (so that they may
marry somewhat late in life but not too
late for a happy ending) and to find a
new life for himself ... at first merely
tasting freedom on the roads, afterwards
fighting politically for the abolition of
the transportation system.
The League of the Lord, then, with its
stock situations and its turning-away
from the final chasms of revelation, is a
romantic rather than a realistic novel;
and, lacking Marcus Clarke’s passionate
vehemence of incident and style, it can-
not be said to add very much to the
enduring image of the convict system left
by For the Term of His Natural Life,
But in its own field, both as a romantic
story and as a recreation of Tasmanian
history, the novel remains exceptionally
good, far more capable than most of the
historical novels that come from over-
seas. In style, characterisation, period
settings, in his Tasmanian landscapes and
in his succession of dramatic incidents,
Mr. Bridges always seems to know ex-
actly what he wants to do. He writes
with the ease, the competence and the
feeling for a romantic situation that come
from long and successful practice in the
craft of the novel.
Arab, Jew and Gentile.
Arab, Jew ana Gentile.
To write a book covering the history
of the last 35 intense years in the troubled
zone which lies between Tripoli and
Tehran would be a courageous under-
taking for a panel of experts ; for one
man, however, well-informed, to essay the
task as anything but a life-work borders
on the foolhardy. Jon Kimche, in Seven
Fallen Pillars (Seeker and Warburg), has
attempted to condense the narrative—for
it is more narrative than history—into
slightly over 300 pages and has achieved
a rather surprising degree of success
Following on a short introductory and
personal chapter, the book plunges into
petroleum statistics, the author recognis-
ing that oil now offers more support to
the life of the Middle East than did any
of the seven pillars. The figures and
maps are culled from recognised authori-
ties, with acknowledgment, but the quoted
conclusions as to future trends are left
anonymous, thus preventing the interested
reader from learning how these import-
ant estimates are derived and with what
reservations.
It is strange, also, that attention is not
drawn to the remarkable constitution of
the Irak Petroleum Co. and its “Develop-
ment” subsidiaries, which have under-
taken most of the exploratory work for
oil outside the established Middle East
fields. Apart from the Gulbenkian five
per cent., the capital of these companies
is held equally by the major Dutch,
British, French and American petroleum
interests —a fact which has not only
rendered sane development possible but
has acted as a curb on exorbitant demands
for oil-rights by a people who were quite
incapable of exploiting this hidden wealth
for themselves.
Kimche finds much that is annoying in
the behavior of that indefinite and un-
constituted clique known as “The Club,”
many of whose members have been sud-
denly promoted to unaccustomed power
and wealth by the magic of oil. He
might have been more understanding and
his contacts might have been more profit-
able had he remembered his Cervantes,
whose Don Quixote, with that infinite
wisdom which often accompanies mad-
ness, said that travel on horseback makes
of some men knights and of others
grooms.
The title of the book suggests an attack
on the Lawrence legend and policy. This
is, in effect, the case, although the author
of The Seven Pillars of Wisdom is seldom
mentioned by name. It is only fair to
recall that T. E. Lawrence was an idealist
who disdained both wealth and honors.
By distributing a sum estimated at
2,000,000 gold sovereigns- in buying the
doubtful aid of tribes whom a realist
could have bought lock, stock and barrel
for a tenth of that amount, he certainly
raised problems of Arab greed for all
who followed him ; but most of the bene-
ficiaries lost interest when Britain’s
economic stringency dried up the supply
of gold at its source. Kimche under-
stresses that most important point as he
does the value of the far-seeing constitu-
tion of the Irak co.’s subsidiaries,
which eliminated competitive bidding and
the consequential intertribal complica-
tions.
Lawrence, admittedly, made promises to
the Arabs which all parties, excepting
himself, realised to be incapable of prac-
tical implementation at the time they were
made, so that little real harm was done.
Ernest Bevin, who comes in for much
criticism, was more realistic, and he
understood that the ambiguous Egyptian
treaty of 1946 was signed in the hope that
the doubtful clauses could be twisted in
Egypt’s favor. The Egyptians, according
to Kimche (page 92), had been “willing
to be fooled 86 times, but not 87.” The
real trouble with the 87th treaty was that
Bevin insisted on an interpretation which
would not fool Britain.
The portrait of the war-time Farouk is
far more flattering than that which most
Egyptians would accept today, and the
account of the “treacherous violation of
Egyptian sovereignty” (page 32), in 1942,
when the machinations of a notorious nest
of spies were frustrated by a display of
force outside the Abdin Palace, carries
too deep an anti-British flavor to be
accepted as history. The description of
the pettiness of Egyptian officialdom in
power can, however, be verified by any
British subject who visited the Nile even
prior to World War 11.
References to Mustafa Kemal, who did
more probably than any other single indi-
vidual to restrain the excesses of Middle
East politics, are few and not particu-
larly complimentary.
Throughout the volume, even in its
qualified praise, criticism of Britain
is too obvious to be fully effective. Why,
to quote one instance, should a mustering
of sufficient strength at Haifa (page 179)
to prevent illegal entry of arms and
migrants be described as “a demonstration
of British ruthlessness”?
I do not, as a rule, take dust-cover
statements very seriously, but I am ready
to agree that “this topical, challenging,
controversial book is a sustained indict-
ment of the policies pursued by various
British Governments.” It is, in fact, far
too sustained to carry conviction. On
the other hand, I cannot bring myself
to believe that the opus “is also con-
temporary history at its best,” although
the final chapters dealing with Israel
approach that target.
From cover to cover, however, it is
vivid journalese of high quality and it
will bring to the knowledgeable reader
the joys of justifiable disagreement.
L.O.
Steele Rudd Memorial.
Dear Red Page,
A memorial to “Steele Rudd” was un-
veiled at Drayton on Sunday, November
19.
The pillar of blue basalt from the
Toowoomba quarries is erected on the
very site of the author’s birthplace—on
Crown land, now held in reserve by the
Department of Education, which gave my
committee permission to erect on the
space asked for; 33 feet square. Pro-
fessor Stable, University of Queensland
(English Literature), performed the un-
veiling ceremony.
Drayton is now a suburb of Too-
woomba, which styles itself “Greater Too-
woomba.” It is bigger, anyway. The
memorial is in a lovely spot. We have
selected a corner under a fir-tree, 90 years
old, beyond which, to the north, is a
line of magnificent silky-oaks and bunya-
pines, grown from seeds planted by the
wife of one of the early State school-
teachers, 94 years ago.
Near by stood the Davis forge and
cottage in which Arthur Hoey Davis was
born. To the south is a quiet, pastoral
scene of dappled fields stretching to a
line of blue hills to Greenmount— the
very backcloth of his “On Our Selection”
sketches and plays. In that district was
“Shingle Hut,” the old home of the Davis
family. From folk thereabout he created
his famous name-characters.
It will be a simple structure, this pillar
of unfaced blue stone, with tablets of
sandstone from near-by Helidon Quarries,
to carry the simple inscription:
To Australian life and letters he brought
the rich gift of honest laughter with
undertones of the struggles and sorrows ot
the pioneers.
My society was founded by the late
Lady Groom, wife of Sir Littleton
Groom, who represented the Darling
Downs in the Federal Parliament for
many years. It is now in its 36th year,
has no constitution and rules; no over-
head or ownership of a single book. Its
yearly subscription is 2s. 6d.
We began this movement in 1939. Then
came war. When peace was declared
there were matters of more urgency to
be considered. But in February of this
year we said, “Now or never.”
We hope, if we have any cash over
and above expenses, to found a “Steele
Rudd Memorial Prize,” for five to seven
years, using capital for the annual prize
(short-story or one-act play). Open to
all Australians, native or adopted— except
members of our Toowoomba Literary
Society.
Cheques to this fund may be
made payable to “Steele Rudd Mernoria
Fund.”— Margaret Curran (46 Wallace-
street, Newtown, Toowoomba, Q.;.


H||lN advertising^
Anthony Horderns
truth
tESS THAN FOUR MINUTES' WALK
d
from town hall station
CORRECTION IN PRICE
In our Nursery Furniture advertisement,
Bulletin, 15th Nov., the price for the
Johnson’s Cradleseat was given as £l/16/4.
This is incorrect and should be £l/6/4.
Right:
"Packard" Brogue Priced From 67/6
With extra stout soles, wide welts and sewn
heel seats in rich Tan Calf, Black Box Calf or
Brown Suede. Price, 67/6. In imported
Scotch Zebu, 92/6. Available in sizes 5 to 14.
Below:
"Huttons" English Playboys. £6/9/-
Hcavy Plantation Crepe Rubber soles and
heels in London Tan Gorse Calf or Rust
Brown Suede, £6/4/-. In Suede Chukka Boots
heavy Crepe soles, £6/g/-.
■M
■■Mm
•m.
; lr
iJ
1 ;
■
3
m I
ft JSto.
m
***
Aj
,
A;
gllr:i
fi
v ,..,.
1
w »
Wonderful to Give . . . Wonderful to Wear . . .
Cool Summer Casuals
This year “The Home of Santa Glaus” has the best in modern
footwear. We’ve sufficient stocks for mail and ’phone orders, so
whether you’re a city or country resident you can make this the
best “giving” Christmas of your life.
“Packard” No-cap Derby in Tan Calf,
Black Box Calf and Brown Suede,
or Tan Calf with Rubber soles
and heels, 56/6. Soft Black Kid,
5 to 14, 62/-.
pswr^pn]
FV ’«
3
Ld3L ? "
V /C:
m
lad
:' v :^r
The smart, strongly stitched
Packard Oxford in Tan or Black
Calf. A comfortable shoe in
extra wide fittings. 5 to 14. 56/6.
“Packard” Moccasin Derby.
Wall toes in Tan Calf leather or
non-slip rubber soles and heels.
Brown Suede with leather soles
and heels. 5 to 12. 62/6.
7 r -
-5F*
“ ' r 3Q
m
11
2si
- /rr P -:i
k\m
The attractive “Packard” Slip-
on Casual available in Tan Calf
with flexible leather soles and
heels. Sizes 5 to 12. 48/6.
MEN’S SHOES, GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. M 2401. MAIL ORDERS. WE PAY FREIGHT.


A LINK BETWEEN
STRANGERS
by HENRY WILLIAMS
JUST which European
country he came from no-
body knew. On the rare
occasions when he said any-
thing, he spoke haltingly and
carefully, with a broken, rather
pleasing accent. He was small
and dark and generally the Latin
type, but then text-book racial
classifications apply but very
loosely to individuals. He might
as easily have come from Poland,
Lithuania, Estonia, or some
other remote land. He was
known as the Balt, and his self-
contained, brooding demeanor
did not invite personal inquiries.
Apart from the Australians,
there were only a couple of
English immigrants and the Balt
on the job, so he was sufficiently
distinguishable as such.
The job was in a timber-yard,
breaking up wooden crates,
knocking out nails, dispatching
the wood to the sawmill. The
Balt wore a pair of dark, well-
worn trousers which, even
through the dust and mess that
accumulated from the day’s toil,
retained a faded professional
air. Sometimes he wore a pair
of rimless scholarly-looking
glasses, and on the days he didn’t
wear them he would often hit
his fingers with a hammer,
whereupon he would mutter
emphatic oaths to himself in an
alien tongue.
One morning when it was rain-
ing he came to work in a neat
little beret, a form of headwear
which contrasted oddly with the
sweeping affirmative and battered
bush hats that prevailed among
the others.
He was obviously no expert
with a hammer, an implement
which he wielded with a peculiar,
half-distrustful timidity. Still, it
was an unskilled laboring job,
where anyone who was willing
could get along, and the Balt was
silently and unremittently indus-
trious. He seemed most at ease
when, during a lull, he could lay
aside his hammer and take up a
rake or a hard broom, with
which he would set about clear-
ing up the innumerable chips and
pieces of wood that littered the
yard ; then sometimes he would
be heard humming strange tunes
to himself.
j T was a job in which social
I intercourse was at a minimum.
The insistent banging of ham-
mers and the constant whining
of electric saws made conversa-
tion a strained and tiresome
matter; moreover, the ganger, a
stoical and sharp-eyed man, dis-
approved of talk, during working
hours.
The work was steady, it was
out in the sunshine, working
among wood was comparatively
clean and pleasant, and gossip
and chatter were reserved for
the lunch-hour. A large airy
room, lined with handsome pine-
wood lockers, served as the mess-
room. There were plenty of
well-made, comfortable wooden
chairs about, and discussions on
the weekend racing and other
matters of acute interest went on
under a haze of tobacco-smoke.
But the Balt kept strictly to him-
self, even during the lunch-hour.
He would occupy a chair in a
comer and would remain bent
and absorbed over a newspaper,
apparently poring over a cross-
word puzzle, a pencil in his
hand, the newspaper on his knee
folded into a small section.
At first it had been thought
that perhaps he was studying
form, but a question thrown out
to him one day from the general
discussion on sport had seemed
to indicate that he had only the
vaguest idea what horseracing
was all about. He gave the im-
pression of being the sort of
person who has never even heard
of the Melbourne Cup,
Most of the men brought neat,
clean parcels of sandwiches for
lunch, made up for them by
their wives or mothers, and they
would brew tea. The Balt used
to get his lunch from a van that
pulled up in the road at lunch-
time. He would come in with
two meat-pies and a bottle of
milk, go over to a corner chair,
set up his newspaper on his knee,
and immediately would sink into
a deep study, apparently uncon-
scious of what he was eating.
Sometimes he would pull out a
foul-smelling cherrywood pipe
after eating, and he would light
up in an absent-minded fashion,
without taking his eyes off the
paper on his knee. Someone
once asked him if he were smok-
ing the wood-shavings from
the yard, and he had smiled
puzzedly, uncomprehending, and
replied “Yes, yes.”
THE only man who might
have brought the Balt out a
little was Tanker. Tanker was
a big, friendly, easygoing man
who could talk easily to
strangers. His nickname was of
alcoholic derivation, his capacity
for beer bearing comparison to
a tanker taking in oil. It was
believed that Tanker had once
suffered the pangs of unrequited
love, and had taken to immoder-
ate drinking on a tide of heady
reaction. At thirty-five he was
an ageing genial fellow, baching
for himself and ready to call all
men his friends. His life was so
designed as to give satisfaction
to the most avid of brewery-
owners. He was in the habit of
going down the road to a hotel
during the lunch-hour, timing
himself to get back to the yard
as the hooter was going for the
resumption of work.
He had once worked inside
the sawmill on a skilled job, but,
having been discovered there
several times somewhat the worse
for drink, he had been removed
to the yard, deposed to a general
laborer, for fear he may have
done himself some serious injury
among the saws. But when any-
thing went wrong with the
machinery inside the mill,
Tanker was always called. He
was one of those men born to
use their hands. The other men
said he would have been a fore-
man there if he had looked after
himself.
Tanker, however, did not
regret his wasted opportunities.
Living by himself, he could spend
quite a lot of money each week
on drink, his one vital concern.
If constant sobriety were a
requisite for worldly success,
Tanker was quite happy to be
passed by.
One day he came back during
the lunch-hour about ten minutes
before the hooter was due to go,
a most unusual piece of mis-
timing for him. He stamped
into the mess-room with a loud
all-embracing “Hiyah, fellows,”
and looked round with an air of
beery good humor.
His gaze came to rest on the
Balt in the corner, who was lost
in study over his newspaper,
pencil in hand.
“What’s holding you up there,
mate?” he called. “I used to be
pretty good at crossword-
puzzles.”
The Balt, completely en-
grossed, did not look up.
“Hi, mate!” shouted Tanker.
And the Balt, who had hitherto
been so quiet, so docile, who had
kept so much to himself, looked
up at Tanker and said rather
forcibly, “Stupid fellow!”
Tanker was not the sort of
person to take offence easily,
but this direct reply promptly
arrested his good humor. He
walked over to the Balt, puzzle-
ment and annoyance rising in his
face.
“Look, mister,” he said.
“There was no need for that at
all.”
The Balt took no notice of
Tanker’s quite justifiable protest.
Excitedly, he indicated the
folded newspaper on his knee.
“Mate not possible,” he said
sharply. “His castle there, you
see.”
HP ANKER had not the sort of
i mind that sees quickly
through conversational mis-
understandings. For several
moments he remained standing
over the wrapt absorbed Balt.
Then enlightenment dawned
gradually on his open face as
he stared down at the newspaper.
“Oh, chess,” he bellowed. “I
didn’t get you, cobber ; you and
me were on different tracks.”
He gave the Balt a friendly
whack on the shoulder that
almost unseated him. The Balt
frowned impatiently and re-
mained absorbed over his chess
problem.
Tanker drew up a chair and
rolled a cigarette. He seemed
to have taken a liking to the
Balt,
“Now, that’s a game I could
never make anything of,” he
said. “Too complicated for me.
I can enjoy a game of draughts
now, but those chess moves take
a bit of understanding. I was
never much good with my head.
The Balt seemed unaware or
Tanker’s ruminative chatter.
His chess problems exercised a
kind of hypnotic effect on him.
“How would you like me to
make you a chess set?” asked
Tanker.
“Yes, yes,” murmured the
Balt absently, vaguely sensing
that some question had been
asked that demanded a reply.
Tanker drew on his cigarette
meditatively, and soon after-
wards the hooter went.
NEXT day Tanker did not go
down to the hotel for the
lunch-hour. He bought a couple
of pies from the van and im-
mediately he had eaten them he
began pottering about the yard
and the mill, picking up bits of
wood and examining them
critically. He continued in this
pursuit until the afternoon
hooter blew.
Next day he approached the
chess-absorbed Balt in the mess-
room. “Now, look, mate, how
many of these pieces are there
in a chess-set?”
It was only after some minutes
of labored explanations that the
Balt understood that Tanker was
going to make a chess-set for
him.
He was overcome with grati-
tude. Fondly and carefully, like
a contented old man talking of
his grandchildren, he explained
the shapes and sizes of the vari-
ous pieces.
Having grasped these. Tanker
got to work in the sawmill,
quietly and earnestly.
For two or three days the Balt
was his eager but clumsy off-
sider, running here and there for
various implements at Tanker’s
muttered monosyllabic requests.
But his yery eagerness made him
more of a hindrance than a help
to the capable workmanlike
Tanker. It wasn’t long before
Tanker had told his zealous
assistant to get back to his chess-
problems during the lunch-hour
while he made the chess-set.
Thereafter Tanker was left to
work in solitary splendor, and
he toiled with the absorption of
one engaged in a labor of a
love.
His old lunch-time drinking
habits were completely forgotten.
He would begin as soon as the
hooter blew. The Balt would
go out to the van and get pies
for both of them, and Tanker
would eat while working. He
even stayed on several evenings
after five o’clock.
T T was a lovely set when it was
I finished. It bore the fine and
intimate stamp of something
wrought out of patience, skill
and fond personal care.
The Balt was enraptured; he
rose almost to poetry. “Before
in my life I owned many chess-
sets, but never one so beautiful
as this. You are a great crafts-
man, Tanker.”
Tanker colored up like a
sheepish, overgrown schoolboy.
“Aw —it’s nothing. I like do-
ing something like that.”
“I must buy you something
for this.”
“Forget it,” mumbled Tanker,
embarrassedly. “You can buy
me a beer if you like.”
“Beer!” echoed the Balt. “I
buy you champagne.”
“No, I’d sooner have beer.”
“I must teach you to play
chess now, yes?”
Tanker agreed somewhat
warily, more to please his friend
than from any innate desire to
master such a game.
He struggled valiantly for
three days during the lunch-
hours. The general talk went
on against a background of con-
tinual exhortations regarding
knights and bishops and castles,
with the Balt patiently repeating,
“No, you cannot do that,
Tanker! ” “No, you cannot move
there!”
Tanker did his best, but by
the third day he had had enough.
He said, “No, mate, it’s no
good; I could never understand
this game, not in a hundred
years!”
And the next day he resumed
his old lunch-hour habit of going
down the road to the hotel.
VARIOUS VERSE
ELEGY.
A naked waste of silence runs
Behind the house in which we live;
A desert where the dreams we give
The world are cindered in its suns.
Where “I” is buried in the dark
Red core of khamsin’s fiery sweep.
And all the tallies pride may keep
Leave but a lonely question-mark.
And in this heat of angry dread
We parch when clocks have set us free
To search the sands for Adam s key.
And hidden tomb where Time lies
dead.
N.S.W.
ERIC IRVIN.
FOR ETHEL.
Not feeling the best, 1 should truly have
said.
Yes, the gum’s erect and shudderless
wit
Deployed sun-column and fern: the un-
broken bread
Of a locked pool—finger nor blade
here; and the unlit
S,crub engaged without malice the
lighted. But .
And then that a futile sun should
accede to your eyes’
Guileless uncanny blue—a sort of sun-
rise,
For your hair is gold to remembering:
and here you sit.
Spit on the wreck, we say, the timbers
of a mood;
But here is a salvaging, easy and full
of grace.
Miles of perplexed and chattering sea
withstood
Only a second your simplest of voices,
your face.
Though only a second longer, now I
may hold
An image risen from conundrum, re-
membering gold.
N.S.W.
FRANCIS WEBB.
HEIRS TO LAND.
They will go back . . .
The essence to the best returns;
As weathered bough can love the wind
Wild body for its country yearns . . .
Lone sweep of earth
Where tussock waves a yellow cape,
Where granite juts in monuments
A foothold for the falcon shape.
Sun, cloud and silence. And the deer
In tranquil herd drawn onward still
To stand in light beneath the sky
Upon the ultimate hill.
The gullies pouring moonlight through
Like water from a crystal mouth;
Late snows and overwhelming calm
On those strange peaks across the
south;
Lonely as life
That turns and looks within its own
Most secret heart and reads a truth
Heaven and hills have always known;
Heirs to the root must turn again,
Stripling-eager they will go
By tree and rock, through fern and
thorn
To find that strength they have to
know;
Lay hands upon the mound, the bark,
Tread leaves, and muted in the night
Watch stars, the beating pulse of space,
And learn the hidden power in sight;
And heed the breathing of the worlds
Behind that frail yet urgent call
Of ewes and lambs that seek a fold
Beside the mountain wall.
N.Z.
PAULA HANGER.


The Bulletin
V'ol. 71—No. 3694
Wednesday, November 29, 1950
m
'•wmA
THE BLACK FLAG.


The Bulletin
i A . i. >i
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
H K Prior ireC ° rs p H Prior
David Adams I
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
~ Bo ?r 2521: ’ ph ° ne > BU JJ* 7 I; 0 r „„.
Victoria; Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand Buddings (opposite
OUR UNIVERSITIES.
Booming times have produced conditions
in our educational system which appear
likely to defeat themselves. In a country
where somebody cries the word “de-
mocracy” almost as often as a bet is laid,
Solons of the various States have built
up a “higher-educational” system largely
upon the assumption that a mere spend-
ing of three or four years getting through
a high school and another four or five at
a university makes youngsters better men
and women than their fellows.
The fact is that the educational system
of the Commonwealth is turning out too
many graduates who have little to offer
except their parchments, and whose aim
it is to spend their lives showing other
people how to do things rather than to
do things themselves.
Higher education, if it is applied to
the right material and for the right pur-
pose, is of inestimable benefit to the
country; but the provision of indis-
criminate opportunities for all and
sundry to get the kind of training which
is now provided by Australian univer-
sities seems to involve a wanton sort of
wastage which the country can scarcely
afford.
If children are kept at school in the
ordinary way to 15 or 16 years of age
it seems reasonable that in the latter
years they might well be given the rudi-
ments of a trade, or at least sent out into
the world with some apprentice skill and
a realisation that all work is dignified,
and doubly dignified if it is well done.
Instead of that, the formative years in
youth are usually spent in a scramble to
get a “leaving certificate,” which will
“qualify” him or her for a slightly more
genteel kind of occupation than the
fellow who occupies himself with brick-
laying or wharflaboring, or to try for a
matriculation pass.
The universities have ceased to be what
they are intended to be—centres in which
the stress is on research, cultivation of
the mind and ability to think for oneself,
and have become factories for churning-
out regimented crowds of graduates.
Harassed university senates are well
aware of the waste of effort which the
present methods entail. There is scarcely
a university which is not in dire financial
trouble and which is not forced to
wonder where the next penny is coming
from as more and more youths and
maidens move in on them, along with
earnest family men back from the war,
who struggle on on a State pittance to
the borders of their thirties. Life in uni-
versities has become a struggle between
the authorities (trying to keep the hordes
of would-be students out) and students
trying to get in at any cost.
One of the principal reasons for the
congestion and relative ineffectiveness
of Australian universities, except in a
a few faculties leading to rich callings in
which there is a scarcity of manpower,
is the fact that all the professions have, in
effect, foisted their apprenticeship systems
on them.
Universities are so occupied with the
grinding of the qualification-mill that they
can pay little attention to the great func-
tion of universities as understood in an
older world, where such institutions are
centres of real learning whose influence
is made felt right through their com-
munities by the use of their fine uni-
versity presses. Not the least contribution
by Oxford and Cambridge is represented
in their flood of authoritative works pro-
duced by unhurried writers holding pro-
fessorships or fellowships of which the
duties are not merely those of routine
pedagogy in a scholastic hothouse. There
are no Omans and Fellings producing
historical works at Sydney University.
Indeed, so pressed is that strange institu-
tion, with its senate seeded with
politically appointed Abie Landas and
Clarrie Martins, that it can afford only
four regular history-teachers to match
the needs of 10,000 students—two pro-
fessors (one of ancient history) and two
lecturers, and not one designated in the
university calendar as devoted to the
history of our own country.
There is no time or money to develop
research on purely cultural subjects in a
“university” flooded with eager aspirants
for professional diplomas. The whole
capacity of the university is occupied in
mustering its ardent students and putting
them through the mill in mobs. There
is little chance of establishing an effective
system of tutoring and leisured study and
research for their own sakes —neither the
university nor its hurrying apprentices
can afford these things. There is no great
debating society in Australian universities
like the Oxford and Cambridge Unions,
while research is limited to utilitarian
faculties which have been supported by
outside effort, by Governments for
defence or departmental purposes or by
professions of the newer scientific sort.
The universities provide no general
haven in which genius may develop and
knowledge continue to ripen through the
years, with the result that the scholar
and the research-worker normally flee
their country and university for some
other overseas so soon as they have
accumulated sufficient prestige and know-
ledge to take them abroad. The faculties
of British and American universities are
adorned with the names of brilliant Aus-
tralians whom their own country and
universities have failed to keep because
it has no niche for anybody in most
departments who is not willing to become
a pedagogic drudge for careerists and
who can find time at most only for a
little radio-uncling in the Leftist cause on
the side.
Australian universities, with about one-
fiftieth of the resources of the great
European universities, have not, and
in existing conditions cannot have,
the real characteristics of a university as
properly understood.
Sydney University, on 1948 figures, has
inflated itself until it is more than a third
larger than Cambridge and a quarter
larger than Oxford. It is as large in
student numbers as any two or three
of the United Kingdom universities put
together, leaving out London, which is
really an accretion of universities.
But the measure of a university is not
in numbers. Cambridge, with 6515
students in 1948, supported 848 research
students in such great institutions as the
Cavendish Laboratory, birthplace of the
split-atom and haunt of Rutherford,
whose own country was not large enough
to hold him. It is the repository of the
world’s higher mathematical scholarship,
and it gives forth occasionally such works
of universal value as the magnificent
Cambridge Modern History. Birming-
ham, with 3000 students, supports 430
postgraduate research workers, Oxford
645 out of 7371 ; but Sydney, with 9986
students in 1948 (8936 full-time), had only
255 postgraduates working there, mostly
teachers and medicoes in search of more
diplomas.
It seems that Australian universities
need to be diverted back to their proper
functions, of which research, the develop-
ment of scholarship and the dissemina-
tion of learning as distinct from technical
training in established knowledge take
precedence, the professions carrying more
responsibility for training their own
people.
The secondary-school system needs to
be reorganised and related to the needs
of the employment field, with less
emphasis on certificates and paper exami-
nations and more on directing the ambi-
tions of the students into useful channels.
One of the principal new subjects which
might be introduced is a course in demo-
cratic economics to teach that it
is no shame to be a bricklayer or a
carpenter, besides being highly patriotic
and more profitable than being an
economist in a bank or even a moderately
aristocratic radio-announcer or lottery
agent.
The Black Flag.
In Victoria the general railway strike has
continued through a sixth weekend, and
is apparently to drift on till one side or
the other —one is a State authority-
surrenders from exhaustion, just as in
the old jungle days when there was
no arbitration system at all. Distant
observers might reasonably deduce that
the railway service is not really neces-
sary to the Victorians’ way of life, and
that in such case the McDonald “Gov-
ernment” might as well scrap it, cut its
huge losses, and relieve the Budget (in
deficit) from the main burden of expen-
diture.
Since the truth of the matter is
obviously otherwise, the alternative is for
the Victorian public to do a bit of
demonstration on its own account and
demand that its “Government” scrap
itself without further delay. The said
“Government” remained last week in-
active under a seven-days’ ultimatum
from the A.C.T.U. to do something or
see an extension of the strike to other
services—which ultimatum also was a
squib, The Communist-led tram union
promptly offered to order its members
out at a wink or a nod from the
A.C.T.U., and there was every sign that
the wharfies and the seamen were itching
to join up and reproduce the transport
blockade of the State, which these same
unions announced just two years ago but
hastily recalled when the Hollway Gov-
ernment under acting-Premier Mc-
Donald (the same who now “governs” by
grace of the “Labor” minority party) —
proclaimed the Essential Services Act
against them.
This is the 16th stoppage of Victorian
railways under the Communist cold-war
since 1945. The service is evidently a
highly expensive luxury, with strikes as
essential in its functions as any alleged
service to the Victorian community.
Meanwhile the watersiders in both
Melbourne and Sydney put on last week
general strikes of their own, both of them
in complete defiance of rulings by the
Stevedoring Industry Board on trumped-
up petty disputes. The Melbourne hold-
up ended on Monday. But that their
campaign is one of open rebellion against
any authority over them whatever has
been declared by the watersiders’ leaders
themselves. That was in February of this
year, on the occasion of the introduction
of “rolling strikes” in Queensland
coastal ports under the personal super-
vision of Communist Roach, assistant-
secretary of the W.W.F. On February 2
Roach told a meeting of 1800 wharfies
in Brisbane that the W.W.F. planned to
dislocate industry by rolling strikes.
There had been 12 stoppages during the
past four weeks in every leading Aus-
tralian port from Fremantle to Bowen.
He said:
We will make it Impossible for Menzies
to carry on. The federation knows where
all the Important ships and cargoes are.
The federation's programme provides for
dislocation of industry to force employ-
ers to grant our demands. We will keep up
our new form of offensive till we get what
we want If we win this campaign we
can consolidate our position and then wage
another campaign for other issues, and
then another, and another, and then we
can go to work in other industries. (Syd-
ney “Sun” and “Telegraph” reports.)
In Newcastle the previous day Com-
munist Healy, secretary of the W.W.F.
(now treating his Commonwealth pass-
port with contempt at the Warsaw
“peace” conference), addressing a Com-
munist meeting at Newcastle, “called on
unionists to rebel against the Menzies
Government and to keep production
low.” He went on:
On the waterfront we have recently had
12 hold-ups in 12 ports. These were all a
matter of rebellion. There was some
measure of an industrial Issue in some of
them, but in the main they were rebellion.
That was the time Healy told his meet-
ing it would have to sing “God Save the
King” because he would not have been
able to rent the local City Hall without
that undertaking. In Sydney the McGirr
Chief-Secretary Clive Evatt’s latest turn
is to demand that the rebels ought to
have the Sydney City Hall whenever
they want it.
Senator McLeay (Fuel and Shipping
Minister) commented (Feb. 3) in
Adelaide on the Roach and Healy state-
ments that he was “keeping a close watch
on these rolling-strike tactics.” Mr. Holt
was then, and has since been, unwilling
to identify the Melbourne union with the
Communist-led rebels in Sydney in appli-
cation of the Crimes Act, which con-
tains a section specifically dealing with
industrial disturbances threatening trade
and commerce with other countries or
among the States.
As last week closed the expectation was
general that, if the Sydney strike continued,
disciplinary action would have to be taken
by the Government, and this view was
expressed in plain words by Justice
Kirby from the Arbitration Court
bench. Last August Mr. Holt, told
a waterfront conference that “the
Federal Government will not allow
the maritime Industries to be used
as a political weapon, nor will it tolerate
repeated defiance of tribunal decisions.”
Sea freights between Sydney and Mel-
bourne were then 85s, a ton, against 265,
in 1939. A month later, on the day
freights were announced to rise another
10 per cent., Mr. Holt spoke again. Of
a committee appointed in August to
“investigate and advise on improvements”
he had, he said, hopes ; but he added that
unless some improvement happened the
Commonwealth Government would
“make a thorough review of legislation
affecting waterside engagements.”
Meanwhile every shipowner and
shipper knew, as Research Service had
just reported, that
There is not the slightest ground for
wishful thinking that the W.W.F., as con-
trolled at present, will help in any move
to cure a sickness which has its roots more
than anywhere else in the federation’s own
deliberate policies.
Remedial action suggested is:—
(1) A general tightening-up of waterfront
discipline.
(2) Revision of pick-up system and the
placing of specialist gangs on a separate
roster.
(3) Abolition of restrictive W.W.F.
domestic rules.
(4) Staggering of lunch-hour and rest-
breaks and arrangement for overtime labor
during late afternoons and Saturday morn-
ings to break the bottleneck, due to 40-
hour week, in movement of goods to and
from the wharves.
The survey found that
Although the port of Sydney has frequent
need of as many as 12,000 men, if a pool
this size were maintained some 3000 would
scarcely ever get a job. .
Practices of late starting, early finishing,
prolonged rest- and lunch-periods lose at
least 25 minutes a day, and up to an hour.
Loss of time from various causes is about
17 per cent, of total working time.
Factors causing loss in efficiency include
too many men in gangs, restrictions on
sling-loads, senseless division of labor
under union rules, inefficient use of
mechanical equipment and refusal of men
to work indoors when rain stops work
outside.
Elimination of all these causes of lost
time would be equal to raising the working
force from 7400 to 10,500, with no increase
in actual physical exertion.
And this industry is run by executives
who have openly proclaimed themselves
as organising strikes for sheer rebellion
and to “keep production low”! Last
week’s renewed stoppages of port work
in Sydney and Melbourne were the latest
illustration of it.
The wharfies, under this malignant
influence, have long made a laughing-
stock of arbitration. If industrial law is
to be thrown to the wolves by the
unions, the soaring rise in prices and
living costs will do the rest to bring
disaster on everybody.
Not a Pinch of Salt.
The trials and tribulations which earned
for the patriarch his renown for patience
are mild irritations compared with the
many and increasing afflictions that befall
the housewife in Australian cities; and
particularly those unfortunate enough to
have their hearths in Sydney, whose
citizens suffer from no Pauline modesty
when describing it as the biggest, liveliest,
loveliest and most modern in the Com-
monwealth.
All Job lost were his property, his chil-
dren and his health. Having lost the
property he didn’t have to worry about
taxation or cost of repairs. Having lost
the kids he didn’t have to worry about
buying food for them at high prices, going
short of potatoes and replacing them with
pumpkins at five times the normal price,
finding himself without gas or electricity
or both, dragging a loaded stringbag on to
crowded trams and buses and trains
(assuming these vehicles are running) and
paying exorbitant fares with special pen-
alties if he didn't get home early enough
or went shopping on Saturdays. As for his
health, as it turned out he got it back, a
chance which few housewives have, since
most of the displacements and other things
they’ve suffered in recent years are
permanent injuries.
In the end Job lost his patience and
began moaning about it. The housewife’s
patience is still there, bless her, and if she
moans she’s entitled to, and generally does
it in the sanctity of her own home instead
of wailing in the byways and throwing
ashes on her hair.
And Job certainly never reached the
ultimate pitch of the Sydney housewife’s
sorrows, for whereas he could scarify
either Jjis soul or his boils if he wished,
she can’t even get a pinch of salt to rub
on her wounds. Not that she’s silly
enough to do it, but the fact is that after
she’s ruined her weekly budget by buying
a little meat, and by some magic or other
got hold of some potatoes or other veges,
and by some merciful dispensation of
coalminers or gas-workers or somebody
else, managed to cook the food, she can’t
get any salt to savor it.
No salt! Yea, verily, in the greatest
city of the land there hasn’t for weeks
been any of the commodity which the
humblest abo, in The Centre can get by
the bagful for nothing. It all has to do
with shipping and the reluctance of
wharfies or rain or the price of beer or
something, and since most of it comes
from South Australia it can’t come by
rail because the S.A. trains have been idle
because some Victorian railwaymen are
narked, and if it could come by rail the
freight increases would make its price
about five times what it was before it
couldn’t be bought.
So the Sydney housewife lies abed in
the night and stares wakefully at the
darkness and wonders which of her
neighbors might have a bit of the stuff
put away somewhere and entertains
strange dreams in which she and all her
sisters are busily digging a vast pit into
which they will presently throw the
politicians and the strikers and the shop-
keepers and the gas companies, and their
husbands, too, if they don’t stop growling
—dreams which end in frustrated tears
because she suddenly remembers there’s
no salt to throw on the so-and-sos when
she gets them all in.


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Great Man's Mission.
Any Australian so misled as to suppos
that the provocative utterances in th
country of a late visitor, “Red Dean
Hewlett Johnson, took any color o
authority from his position at the See o:
the Primate of All England must hav
been vastly comforted by the addresse
of the Archbishop of Canterbury himself
during his special tour of this Common
wealth, and particularly during his sta
in Sydney.
Dr. Fisher departed homeward, vi
New Zealand, at the end of last week
He preached and practised while her
the vital gospel of good citizenship
these revolutionary times —when educa
tion is being distorted to serve sub
versive propaganda and politics debasec
for selfish or sectional ends —that “th
Welfare State,” if it is to amount to any
thing, must be based on duties befor
rights and privileges. The personality o:
this most distinguished visitor carrier
across with conviction to those who
opened their minds to him a companion
rendering of “It is more blessed to give
than to receive.” The answer, he said
to the question—“ What can we do to
assure the new ‘Welfare State’?” —is
“You must be convinced that it is neces
sary to give into the common nationa
pool more than you receive.”
Too few leaders in any walk of life today
have had th© common courage to tell the
people that If th© “Welfare State” is to
succeed the self-seeking: and materialism
of the 19th century must be abandoned.
Only in this way, he warned his
hearers, would a new and higher citizen-
ship be evolved. Otherwise “the
generosity of the ‘Welfare State’ must
dry up when there is nothing more to
give out.” In ordinary life, he said in
another address, as in Christian co-
operation amongst churches, “the best
way to get to know and understand each
other is to work together on some specific
task.”
You will gret to know each other much
better by working together than by dis-
cussing your differences.
This is not only Christian teaching; it
is enlightened political doctrine for the
industrial democracy of the latter 20th
century. We shall neglect it, declared Dr.
Fisher, only at the grave risk of enthron-
ing the robotlike tyranny of the
totalitarian State.
Victoria in the Shadow.
In Victoria the railway strike has cut
supplies for retail-traders to 25 per cent.,
there is anxiety about clearing wheat-
storages for the coming new season’s
crop, great supplies of eggs for export
are going bad because cold stores can’t
accept them, flourmills are cutting down
to one-third production, and either road-
transport of flour must be subsidised or
the price of bread must go up. The
western district reports that road-
transport “is fighting a losing battle.”
On behalf of the Ballarat branch of the
A.R.U., which was last week calling out
for a return to work, an executive official
said Communist control of unions had
lost leading unions £7,385,000 in wages
during strikes in three years up to 1948,
and “much more has been lost within
the past two years.” He gave details
for 1945-48—“W.W.F. £930,000, miners
£1,982,000, metal trades £1,100,000,
building trades £263,000, A.R.U.
£1,236,000.”
Meanwhile the A.C.T.U. refused
A.L.P, executive’s request that it should
hold a secret ballot of striking union
members, and the A.L.P. group in the
A.R.U. retorted that the strike “is being
conducted in complete defiance of the
rank-and-file majority.” Premier Mc-
Donald had rejected an offer of co-
operation from the Opposition party “to
save the State,” saying the question could
be “left to the Government.” A week
later the Government was still “standing
firm” and doing nothing. Mr. McDonald
had evidently given pledges to “Labor,”
in return for support in office, that his
Ministry will never use the Essential
Services Act, which gives the Government
power to require a secret ballot before a
strike, and to take over proclaimed
services if a strike lays them idle.
The ignominy of party-leaders has
reached an all-time low when not one of
them is game either to use the Act for
the emergency it contemplated or to
remove it as dead-wood from the statute-
book, even while it remains there as a
bogy to frighten its once-valiant authors
rather than the unions which two years
ago called off a political strike at the
mere sight of it.
Political Strikes.
Last week, for the third time during this
Budget session in Canberra, Mr.
Menzies has told a public audience out-
side Parliament that his Government will
not continue in office if it is to be frus-
trated in its legislation by the Opposi-
tion acting through a non-representative
rump majority in the Senate.
His latest statement was in his own
electorate at Kooyong. He said that, in
effect, the Federal executive of the
A.L.P. —“twelve men whom even the
Quiz Kids wouldn’t know” —was run-
ning Australia’s legislature through the
obstructionist Senate. “Labor’s” show of
support and affection for the Communists
(his phrase) is not the only ground
on which Mr. Menzies sees the Chifley
party allowing him handsome advantages
at a double-dissolution. The current
Communist-run strikes, in defiance of the
unions’ own conciliation commissioners
and the Arbitration Court alike, are ruin-
ing any chances on which “Labor” might
calculate at the next elections.
In reply to a question from his
Kooyong audience, Mr. Menzies said
that one of the first bills the
Government would introduce in the
New Year would be one amending
the Arbitration Act to require secret
ballots for trade-union elections, and to
permit limited appeals from decisions of
conciliation commissioners. And there
can hardly be any objection to this sort
of “interference with the unions” in view
of the unions’ recent drastic interference
with the people.
While the Government is about this
business it might also strengthen the Act
where it deals with trade-unions’ annual
accounts. These ought to be audited
annually and made public like any other
commercial corporations’ balance-sheets.
If members of unions—especially of
some unions—were permitted a picture
of how their money is spent they might
discover a new enthusiasm for making
their views heard at union meetings. Some
union executives might even desire to
emulate “Balance - sheet” Thornton's
escape to a job overseas in some place
where proletarians are not even theoreti-
cally allowed to ask questions.
Socialise and Bust.
A new shocker came to light last week
with the announcement that Britain will
have to import two million tons of coal
because of falling production in the
socialised coalmines.
When coal was socialised in Britain in
1947, the joyful Socialist planners told
the people production would rise to 244
million tons by 1951, and conscripted
youths to work in the mines to make sure
of it. Now there’s a new plan—an out-
put of 240 million tons a year by 1961
or 1965, which can be got by spending
£635 million on “reorganisation and
mechanisation.”
Present fall of output is blamed on
the number of miners leaving the pits to
work elsewhere—evidently they like the
private boss better than the Socialist one
—and the Socialists invite the British to
believe they can be replaced by spend-
ing millions on “reorganisation and
mechanisation.”
What Britain needs more than anything
else is a reorganisation of its Govern-
ment by tossing the Socialist dreamers out
and putting a practical Administration
in,
Meseqiscirie-sfreef Eruption.
After four months or so of doing nothing
save bringing down a Budget to register
the State’s increasing insolvency, the
McGirr Ministry in N.S.W. hastily dis-
missed Parliament into five or six months’
recess. Its majority was growing too
restive.
That majority, the caucus Independent
Mr. Geraghty, had been gesticulating in
disconcerting fashion for the freeing of
tied pubs. The liquor interests are, of
course, sacrosanct, but a one-man
majority is pretty sacrosanct, too.
Besides, the glamor-boy who functions
as Chief Secretary had broken out of
control again, and had aimed a
smack at that solid pillar of the
party. Lord Mayor O’Dea. Just when
the Lord Mayor, too, had been showing
himself most obliging by not reviving
the demand of his union for abolition
of Saturday-morning shopping. No other
Minister in the State’s history has ever
run through the gamut of Brother Clive’s
indiscretions and survived to muck-up
yet another portfolio. There was that
business, as Education Minister, of invit-
ing girls from Parramatta reformatory
to come and have tea with him some
time; the business of having to be
dragged off the executive of the banned
Australian-Russian association ; the row,
as Housing Minister, with his depart-
mental head over the allotment of
homes on choice North Shore sites (North
Shore, not Hurstville), and now, as Chief
Secretary, two more rows in quick suc-
cession—with the police force, which
even refused to take orders from him
about poker-machines in a certain club, as
being “no business of his,” and then this
completely inane attack on the Lord
Mayor. Is not every vote precious?
With the Assembly in session, too, the
leader who must hold the “Labor”
fort in the chief industrial State
cannot go on indefinitely pretending
to be oblivious to strikes all over
the place (when his policy-speech
had abolished them), blackouts increasing
daily in spite of nationalised electricity,
tram services getting worse and more im-
provident in spite of the new buffer
Transport Commission—which latter was
supposed not simply to relieve the Gov-
ernment of having to carry the Govern-
ment’s baby but to teach it to use its
own legs. Opposition-leader Treatt had
been illustrating rude comments on pro-
gress with the Eastern Suburbs Railway
(one of the bluffs that won the last elec-
tions by a nose) with mathematical calcu-
lations which placed the E.S.R.’s likely
completion, at present rate of construc-
tion, some 1400 years hence. Then came
a caucus-cave movement for getting the
ban lifted on mid-week racing. That
touched a vital spot. Forthwith a circuit
was completed which made the McGirr
mechanism begin to tick.
Parliament was dismissed in a flash,
and with its departure action appeared
in large lumps. The Circular Quay road-
way-plan was fixed without addition of
another day to the indecision of the past
three or four years. Next minute Cabinet
threw off inhibitions of two years’ stand-
ing induced by pressure-groups hitherto
all-powerful, and decreed that the E.S.
railway should run through the Stadium
site at Rushcutter Bay. Then, final
stroke. Cabinet wiped mid-week racing
prospects for another 12 months.
If something had not cut off the power
at this point the McGirrs might even have
gone on to appoint a royal commission
into the question of tied houses or the
alleged “bashings” by Cobar police. The
ensuing blackout, however, is expected
to last for some time.
A JUBILEE MASTERPIECE.
THE chief complaint against the staging of “Hiawatha” as a main musical
piece of the Commonwealth Jubilee is that it is based on an American poem
about Red Indians, composed by a Londoner of African descent, will have a
Canadian Indian in the title rtole and the overture is based on the negro song
“Nobody Knows de Trouble I’s© Had.” Obviously the only thing to do is to
adapt it to introduce an Australian flavor. Something like this:—
Opening Scene: The woodcutting
camp of Dash-me-rags Smith at
Tapalin Bend, Murray River. Smith
is seated at the door of his wigwam
reading The Bulletin. His squaw is
bathing a piccaninny. Empty wam-
pum bottles lie around and a tame
grizzly-bear is playing with a caribou.
Orchestra and chorus swell into the
stirring bars of “Ribber, Stay ’Way
From Mah Dore.” Music dies down
as spotlight picks up a sagamore
approaching through the redgum- and
maple-trees. The sagamore’s scalp-
lock is braided, his body oiled and
painted for war. He wears the noble,
disdainful look of a Cherokee who
still knows the whereabouts of his
scalp. Smith looks up, removes his
spectacles and speaks:
On the shores of Gitche Gurnee,
Of the shining Murray Water,
Stands the stranger, bold the stranger,
Pointing with his finger westward,
O’er the water pointing westward,
To the purple clouds of sunset.
Who is this that comes among us,
Brings his fearless aspect to us,
Be he brave, or be he spectre,
Or a flamin’ rabbit-inspector?
Orchestra crashes to crescendo of
interrogation, holding the last note for
a dramatic moment. Then deathly
silence until the squaw leaps in the
spotlight and peers under a hand at the
noble savage. She speaks;
Gripes, there must be a bloomin’
circus in the town!
Smith rises to his feet and hurls a
wampum-bottle at her.
Silence, ye cooker of johnny-cakes,
O, Nokomis, old baker of cakes,
He might be the child-endowment.
(To the stranger):
Why stand idly looking at us,
Leaning on the tree behind you?
Hath England won the toss?
Hath some worker praised his boss?
What news bring you and who are you?
The stranger slowly stands away
from the tree. The lights fade and
across the back of the stage run the
opening dancers in the ballet, “Enlist-
ment of the Chattanooga Shoeshine
Boy.” As they dance the nickelodeons
in tfie orchestra take up the refrain
and a deep baritone sings:
Dat ole man Murray,
Dat ole man Murray,
He must knaw sompthin’,
But don’t say nawthin’,
He just keeps rollin’,
He keeps on rollin’ alorng!
The sagamore raises his hand, palm
outward, in the gesture of peace. The
orchestral cymbals clash for silence.
He speaks:
This pfeller Hiawatha,
You got it t’ makin’s?
Mine tinkit you plurry fool. '
More better grow ’em plurry sheep;
Look at t’ price of wool.
Mine bin meet two pfeller back there,
Come from Snowy River valley.
Say more better than the Mallee.
Get him t’irty quid a week,
For t’ forty-hour week,
Get him double-time on Sundee.
Hiawatha startin’ Mondee,
You turn up this plurry wood job
Join t’ old A.W.U. mob,
Laugh like maiden Minnehaha
Have him beer an’ motor-car car,
Join this pfeller Hiawatha,
Run t’ s.p., ain’t no bother.
Not for greater skill in hunting,
Not for greater craft in fishing,
Not for triumph in the battle,
Nor renown among the warriors,
But to profit from the people
Who do their dough on ’orses.
Smith studies the bronzed features
of the brave, runs a practised eye ovei
his moccasins, the. beaded kenabeek
skins, the tomahawk and the overnight-
bag hanging from one hand. He turns
slowly and surveys the Murray forest,
listening to the Zulu warsongs in the
distance, the throbbing of the assegais
on the impi skins and the nearer
broadcast of the second race at Rose-
hill coming from his battery set.
Behind this music the ballet of Sioux
braves, Limpopo witch-doctors and
Bondi surf-girls enact dances depict-
ing scenes from Australian history,
such as the landing of Captain Cook,
the shooting of Ned Kelly, the grim
fight of the Eureka Stockade defenders
against the hordes of Arapahoes,
Cheyennes and Matabeles attacking
them, the travels of Dr. Evatt and
Mr. Spender in their noted explora-
tions of the world, and the gallant
strikes of wharflaborers and railway-
men in defence of the grand old Aus-
tralian principle of no work between
beers.
Smith stands brooding over this
panorama of his country’s greatness
as a single high tenor strikes into the
dramatic solo “Six Tall Slim Slick
Sycamore Saplings.” He stands silent,
his hand on the sagamore’s shoulder,
until the stirring anthem ends. Then,
as orchestra and chorus swing into
“Deep in the Heart of Texas,” he and
the brave join in the solemn sun-dance
of the Sioux.
As they dance the orchestra and
chorus fade away, the lights dim and a
Bogan shower falls on the stage. Smith
shakes the dust from his fringed buck-
skin coat, picks up his long rifle, tests
his scalping-knife on a thumb and, as
the lights grow, turns toward the forest
with Hiawatha, saying :
Should you ask me, whence these stories?
Whence these legends and traditions,
With the odors of the forest,
With the dew and damp of meadows,
With the curling smoke of wigwams?
Let me tell you, O my brother,
They are told to one another,
In the tepees of Canberra,
In the councils of Canberra.
They pause and look gravely at each
other, then Hiawatha raises a hand.
The orchestra crashes to silence. Hia-
watha speaks:
You got it t’ makin’s?
End of Act I.
[Anybody can have a go at the rest
of it.]


|fg|j|§ggsfs
7"
iwsswss
xml
w
/' J
'«y
6434 E-R
There is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVENA
fS
■
CARRERAS LIMITED
OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
Canberra seems determined to finish
up the year in the usual frantic rush to
get through the greatest possible number
of bills in the shortest possible time.
Anticipated date for putting up the
shutters is December 8, and there are
about three dozen bills to be disposed of.
Most important is the National Service
Bill, on which “Labor” has not yet made
up its mind. There are several conflicting
opinions to reconcile : the diehard anti-
conscriptionists; the ones who think the
urgency of the situation justifies com-
pulsory training ; and the ones whose only
criterion of the measure —of any measure
—is how it will affect their electoral
chances.
Transport implies motion —sometimes.
At the end of last week the transport
picture in the capital cities of the three
Eastern States was largely a still-life
study. No trains moving in Melbourne
(or elsewhere in Victoria), no ships
working in Melbourne or Sydney, no
trams running in Brisbane.
After a hint that the Crimes Act might
be invoked, Melbourne wharfies decided
on Friday to go back to work on Mon-
day; the Sydney branch called a meeting
for Monday to decide whether to follow
their example. A Federal Government
application to the Arbitration Court “to
vary the privileges enjoyed by the water-
side workers in Sydney in relation to
annual leave and attendance money” was
made returnable on Monday in the hope
that commonsense would send the strikers
back by then. Melbourne railwaymen
decided to continue their ruinous strike
and to make another attempt to persuade
other transport men to join them. Bris-
bane trammies were still out on Monday.
Sydney “sports” were struck some
heavy blows last week. The dust had
hardly had time to settle on the seats
of the N. S. Wales Assembly—closed
down till April Fools’ Day or thereabouts
•—when the McGirr Cabinet announced
that the ban on mid-week racing, due to
expire on December 31, would remain in
force another 12 months and that the
Eastern Suburbs Railway would go
through the Stadium. Whatever the
bookies, jockeys, trainers and touts may
think of the first decision, thinking people
will approve it —Wednesday racing means
Wednesday absenteeism and lowered pro-
duction. The 22 members of McGirr’s
caucus who reputedly petitioned for the
removal of the ban apparently don’t
agree with this —or is it that they just
don’t care?.
In an election-speech at Randwick
Town Hall in 1947 Mr. O’Sullivan, then
Minister for Transport, told his audience
that within three years it would be possible
to travel from Circular Quay to Bondi
Junction by the Eastern Suburbs Railway.
O’Sullivan has seen a lot of fights at the
Stadium since then, and he’ll be able to
see a lot more before the joint is pulled
down. Mr. Winsor, Director of Trans-
port, says it’ll be another 18 months be-
fore the wreckers go in.
Third blow to the “sports” was the
announcement of more and longer black-
outs with consequent additional restric-
tions on outdoor lighting. This means
that “the dorgs” won’t be able to start
till 9 p.m. Things must be getting pretty
grim when an industry of the importance
of dog-racing has to suffer.
Going the rounds of the picture-
theatres at present: “A Lady Without
Passport.” Starring Jessie Street? No,
Hedy Lamarr.
W, M. Hughes and Leslie Haylen
found themselves in agreement on the
“Hiawatha” controversy in the Federal
Parliament, and Hughes suggested a better
pick would have been “The Man from
Snowy River”:
I knew him well—a romantic figqre, with
red whiskers and a voice like a foghorn.
“Banjo” Paterson, who knew him better,
described him thus: “And one was there,
a stripling on a small and weedy beast,”
and went on to say that he was so young
and slight they tried to bar him from
the chase, and let him go only because
“Clancy stood his friend.” Perhaps Billy
is confusing him with Yorick.
Churchill’s latest on the fast-slipping
Attlee, “A sheep in sheep’s clothing,” is
all the more pointed because of the ex-
pensiveness of the hon, gent.’s regime.
' * .
One night last week Attorney-General
Spicer introduced into the Senate a bill
to amend 85 Commonwealth Acts and
repeal nearly 500 which have fully per-
formed their functions and are no longer
effective. He described it as cutting away
the deadwood. Senator McKenna an-
nounced that the Opposition cordially
“HOORAY! THE EASTERN SUBURBS RAILWAY AT LAST!”
supported the bill, and it went through
all stages in a few minutes. If the Senate
could display the same delightful
unanimity in passing laws as in repealing
’em we might get somewhere.
Latest scratchings; The proposal to
resume mid-week racing in Sydney.
N.S.W. Transport Minister Sheahan
wanted Cabinet to approve schemes for
underground car parks in the Domain
and Prince Alfred Park. Agriculture
Minister Graham, who controls the
Domain, wanted to refer to his “advisers.”
Sheahan snapped, “Advisers are not the
Government; we are the Government.”
The Cabinet evidently isn’t sure; it
deferred a decision.
What goes on? Premier Playford told
a questioner in the Adelaide Parliament
that S.A. was looking for export markets
for salt and that there was more salt in
Australia than was needed. Informed
that a Russian ship, the Omsk, had
arrived in Fremantle with salt from Stettin
(Germany) for Brisbane and Mackay, Mr.
Playford said he doubted it. The next
day the “Advertiser” had a picture of
the ship and repeated the statement about
her salt cargo. In his market-survey
Playford might give some thought to
Sydney, which has been short of salt for
months.
Victorian Legislative Councillors are to
get a Christmas box in the shape of a
salary rise of £3OO p.a., bringing them
on to the same level as Assemblymen —
£lO5O. Premier McDonald’s justification
for the rise is that, now that the Upper
House is chosen by adult suffrage,
MJL.Cs, will have just as many electors
and responsibilities as members of the
Assembly and it is therefore fair that
they should receive the same salary. The
argument could be reversed: now that
Assemblymen are to share electors and
responsibilities with Councillors it is only
fair that Assembly pay should be reduced.
While the elder Evatt is professionally
haranguing the High Court in defence of
a Communist-controlled union, Clive
is trying to bully the Sydney City
Council into lifting its ban on the use
of the Town Hall for Red and Pink
rallies. Little Sir Echo won’t be left out
of it, whether he be Minister for Educa-
tion, Minister for Housing or Chief
Secretary.
E. J. Holloway has decided to follow
his former leader Scullin into retirement;
he has announced that through ill-health
he will not be a candidate for Melbourne
Ports next election. It is 21 years since
he stood against Prime Minister Bruce
in Flinders and got home by 31,370 votes
to 31,065. Realising that that result was
too good to stand a repetition, he switched
to the safe waterfront seat in 1931 when
Jimmy Mathews, who had held it since
1906, stepped down.
Redistribution left Melbourne Ports
still a safe seat for “Labor”—Holloway’s
majority last year was nearly 16,000 —
and there’ll be a. corned-beef rush for the
succession. A kite' is being flown for
Senator McKenna, but there’ll be a lot
of Victorian “Labor” men who feel their
claims to the lifetime seat are stronger
than his. One name mentioned already
is that of P. J. Kennelly, Federal Secretary
and campaign-director of the A.L.P.
When the Joint Coal Board’s missing
annual reports —two of them now over-
due, 1948-49 and 1949-50 —are at last
released, the public may be able to learn
something of the formation of the board’s
operating subsidiary, the N.S.W. Mining
Co. Pty., Ltd. The J.C.B. chairman an-
nounced the other day that this company
has accepted a tender from George
Wimpey and Co., Ltd., of U.K., to dig
24 million tons of coal from Ben Bullen
opencut, hiring two large walking drag-
lines from the board for the job. The
contractors “are expected to reach a peak
of 4000 tons a day.” Maybe the board
will tell us some more about its new
enterprise semetime.
The New Zealand Government, by
agreement with woolgrowers’ reps, is
putting a 33y per cent, levy on gross in-
come at wool auctions, the money to be
placed to growers’ credit in their own
banks. It will not bear interest and will
not be taxed until returned to the growers
—when that will be will be decided after
a representative committee has advised
the Government. “Much as the Govern-
ment dislikes the subsidy system,” Mr.
Holland intends to use “some portion of
the Government’s share of the wool
money,” i.e., increased income-tax re-
ceipts, to subsidise the price of woollen
goods. As a result of the increase in
overseas funds brought about by the
high price of wool, restrictions on imports
are to be substantially slackened.
Australia’s Upper House seems to be
reaching a new low.
The Chinese Communist Government
in Peking has banned strikes and lock-
outs —no doubt on the advice of its
hearty admirer. Comrade Ernest
(“Balance-sheet”) Thornton, who has gone
to live there.
Shortage of newsprint has forced the
London “Times,” already for the same
reason only a shadow of its pre-war self,
to cut its circulation by 25,000. Most
of Britain’s daily papers have to make do
with six to eight pages, yet last year the
Attlee Government insisted on the news-
print industry increasing its exports from
80,000 tons to 100,000 tons. Socialist
planners justify this action as part of the
same export drive which makes British
citizens do without cars in order to help
Britain’s balance of trade, but the Press
cannot be blamed for suspecting more
sinister motives.
Clive Evatt is recommending aborigines
in N. S. Wales be permitted to elect one
of their number to the State House of
Assembly; he wants to “bring into
existence a new charter of freedom,
justice and equality for the aboriginal
race.” If the present state of parties con-
tinued after the next election Clive’s
scheme would mean that Binghi would
hold the balance of power in the House.
“Lord Luvus”: Who are the highest-
paid “workers” in Australia? I’ll
nominate the 34 members of the
Victorian Legislative Council, Their
• normal sitting time is from 5 p.m.
to 11 p.m., and they perform this
exhausting office about 30 days in
each year. Their new salaries —up £3OO
—are to be £lO5O p.a., plus £lOO more
if country members. This works out at
£3B a day. Some other things they enjoy
are free passes on all Australian railways
and on Melbourne trams and buses, free
tickets to the M.C.G. and main race-
courses (with ladies’ tickets), pensions for
life equal to the basic-wage. Since Cain
has been ruling Victoria through Mc-
Donald, nothing has been heard of
“Labor’s” pledge to abolish the Leg.
Council.
Replying to complaints about poor
lighting in the Senate chamber, the presi-
dent, Gordon Brown, promised to look
into the matter, and commented that bad
lighting may have contributed to frayed
tempers recently noticeable in the Senate.
It’s a possible explanation, but uneasy
consciences seems a more likely one.
According to Calwell, who has sud-
, denly given away “Labor’s” unification
; policy and become an ardent New Stater,
Riverina is “a no-man’s-land belonging
r economically to Victoria, but politically
5 to N.S.W., and has been neglected.” Well,
r let’s cheer up ; if ever Arthur’s crowd gets
I back it’ll be nationalised and belong to
■ “the people.”


df
“LOVE LOCKED OUT.”
"Sydney city aldermen said last week that the department of the Chief Secretary, Mr. Clive Evatt, was trying to force the council to withdraw
its ban on the letting of the Town Hall to Communists."


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Hamer”: That great friend of Aus-
tralia, Dr. Thomas Wood, wrote in
Cobbers “Sydney has never grown old,
and never will while the ferries run.”
Had he seen the progressive decline of
the picturesque and at one-time
übiquitous harbor services he would
probably have been forced to admit that
the city was at least becoming middle-
aged. Latest casualty is the 75-year-old
Lane Cove service, which folded up
when the Lady Chelmsford made her last
run a couple of weeks ago. A “Sunday
Herald” writer has mentioned the
time when sportsmen could get to Rose-
hill racecourse by ferry ; that was before
the dam was built to enclose an artificial
lake at the head of the Parramatta River.
Once it was possible to get to Liverpool
by river, and there was a great deal of
cargo freightage until railway competi-
tion killed it. Botany Bay had small
ferries which serviced Cook’s and
George’s Rivers. The freight service to
Manly, once part of the Manly femes’
business, was beaten out years ago, the
long-ago opening of the Spit Bridge hav-
ing been its death-knell. The Manly and
harbor-proper ferries seem assured of
permanency because of the multitudes
who live on the harbor fringes to whom
the ferry is the most convenient transport,
and the tens of thousands of casuals who
prefer the boat trips; but in a changing
world nothing can be guaranteed. In
this case rising costs are a growing
menace,
♦ * ♦ *
“J.W.D.”: Lost dentures (B.
18 /10/’so>? A farmer friend, whose
property
carries 10 times
as many crows
as sheep, always
removes his false-
teeth when work-
ing. He places
them in a small
box in his pocket.
Working with his
coat off, he
parked his den-
tures on a fence-
post, and forgot
all about them.
He discovered his
loss when he sat down to tea at home.
Saddling a horse, he set off on an eight-
mile ride in search of the molars. “I
don’t really need ’em to eat with,” he
told his wife, “but I’m hanged if I’ll pay
twenty quid for a set of teeth just for a
crow to wear.”
* * * ♦
“Clooter”: Why anybody should be
astonished or indignant over the selec-
tion of “Hiawatha” as the main musical
feature of the forthcoming Common-
wealth celebrations beats me. The fact
that there’s nothing Australian about it
should make it tremendously attractive
to Australians, who won’t read Aus-
tralian books, can’t quote Australian
poetry or sing an Australian song, and
won’t give a living to the writers, poets,
playwrights, composers, musicians and
singers in their midst, though many of
these same people go abroad and win
instant recognition. It has long been
obvious that Australians won’t work for
their country, and the reluctance to train
themselves to fight for it is equally
obvious. A people that will fall over
itself to welcome a second-rate foreign
film-star, buy millions of incredibly bad
foreign “comics” and throng its
receiving-sets to listen to negro tom-tom
“I’m not much good at dealing cards—but I can deal out the
supper all right,”
music wouldn’t know an Australian
musical work if it heard one. One of the
jubilee events is to be a trip down the
Murray by some local actors in emula-
tion of Sturt’s voyage. How much more
popular would it have been if, instead of
the locals and Sturt, they’d brought out
William Boyd and a bunch of Hollywood
extras to enact a battle between cow-
punchers and injuns!
* * * *
“F.S.”: Shaw once expressed the hope
that his plays would not be made into
text-books, to make him as hated as
Shakspeare. He may not escape that fate,
but one affliction that was visited on Shak-
speare is not likely to befall him, since
he took the precaution during his lifetime
to have almost everything significant said
about him by himself. Hence he is not
likely to be the prey of the scholarly
donkeys who study unexplained passages
in the Bard’s plays and find hidden mean-
ings in them. The latest has discovered
that Shakspeare was a spy for Queen
Elizabeth in the days before the Spanish
Armada and worked as a cipher clerk in
the office of Queen Bess’s secretary, Sir
Francis Walsingham, who was notable
for the number of fifth-columnists he
employed in Italy and other countries.
The industrious investigator has traced
phrases in the plays to State papers and
found that the playwright used a spy’s
aliases in “Love’s Labor’s Lost” ; he has
come across a letter from a French
official at Calais which had a “doodle”
on it similar to those on other docu-
ments associated with Shakspeare, as
well as a poem which “is. not up to
much —but Shakspeare hadn’t started
writing his great works then.” The Bard,
he opines, may even have gone to Italy
on a secret assignment. A spate of plays
and novels may now be expected in
which Will is depicted sneaking around
Venice, Rome and Verona, holding horses
and picking up scandal about Romeo and
Juliet, Brutus, Cassius and Julius Caesar.
* * * *
“Becks”: Publicity given to the pro-
jected boat-journey down the Murray in
the tracks of Sturt as part of the jubilee-
year celebrations has prompted some well-
meaning citizens to suggest that the name
of the river should be changed to Sturt.
It seems rather late in the day for a re-
christening, and if any change were con-
templated Hume’s prior right to be
honored would have to be considered.
Sturt named the river into which he
sailed from the Murrumbidgee after Sir
George Murray, who was Secretary for
the Colonies for a short period round
about the time of its discovery and who,
apart from having his name thus placed
on the map of Australia, apparently made
no impression on history. But if we are
to remove from the map the names of
all nonentities there is a colossal task
ahead of us, and if we are to name places
only after their discoverers there is going
to be a terrible lot of repetition. It
would need a better reason than that to
justify changing the name our greatest
river has borne for 120 years. Come to
think of it, who was Mr. Thames, and
what did he ever do for England?
* * * *
“R.M,”: New Australians often com-
plain that Old Australians bellow rather
than use ordinary audible tones. They
say that their eardrums are almost
shattered by the exuberance of our
speech. This strange logic that makes
people yell at foreigners in the belief that
they will thus more easily comprehend is
not peculiar to us; it is international.
Pushing a bike through France a couple
of years ago I struggled to interpret the
gabbled directions of gendarmes and
citizens. The less I caught on the louder
their voices rose, all in a spirit of help-
fulness. We usually arrived at an under-
standing, but the wear and tear on ear-
drums and vocal cords was immense.
Slowness rather than volume is what
counts.
* * * *
“Eureka”: One way to sell a second-
hand car without paying for advertising.
Being driven slowly along Parramatta-
road, Sydney, I saw a small car with, this
written on the windscreen: “For Sale —
Stop me.”
“What d'yer mean by bargin' in without knockin'?"
“Spasebo”: War has its contrasts. On
the one hand you have Lieutenant Reg
Saunders, Australia’s only aboriginal
commissioned soldier, reported as having
“lost no time in settling down with the
Australian 3rd Battalion in North Korea,
arriving as a reinforcement on Cup Day
and , taking command of a platoon which
lost its officer wounded in a heavy
action.” On the other hand, as reported
by a Melbourne “Sun-Pic.” reporter, you
have his wife, living with their three
little daughters in one room of a con-
demned house in Fitzroy, with rain com-
ing through the ceiling, great gaps and
ratholes in the broken flooring, a bath-
room and ancient lavatory in the back-
yard and only the street for the children
to play in. For 18 months Mrs. Saunders
searched for a house, first in Sydney and
then in Melbourne. She found no trace
of racial antipathy in her long search,
but neither did she find decent accommo -
dation. But there’s a happier ending.
The publicity given by the “Sun” brought
the offer of a cottage in the near-
Melbourne countryside. As I write the
Army is about to rally round and attend
to the job of “shifting” the Saunders
family.
* * * *
“C.A.L.”: After a wait of 40 years,
an elderly man of Perth looks like having
a home built. The bricks for the house
cost him nothing, for while employed as
a dustman for a suburban municipality
he has picked up every brick and half-
brick he found on the roads, an average
of nearly two bricks a day for four
decades. Although he is about to retire
from work, he and his wife are as
thrilled as any newlyweds going into a
new home. “We have the bricks,” they
say, “an endowment policy maturing soon
will pay for the rest of the materials and
builders’ wages, and we’ll have our home
rent-free.”
* * * *
“Nunk”: Dr. Thomas Wood, news of
whose death came through last week, was
a Doctor of Music, and to that extent an
artist; so that when he came out here to
cheer us up during the recent war he had
equipped himself with a theme-song, none
other than “Lillibullero,” done to new
words, and magnificently played by one
of the British military bands. After listen-
ing to his radio talks you could see that
he had it all planned; the victorious
British Empire and Allies were to march
into conquered Germany behind this great
old revolutionary and liberationary tune,
making of the conquest and the ensuing
peace not only a military and diplomatic,
but also an artistic, success. Alas, if
the tune was played at all, it was drowned
or jammed in Russian discords, remind-
ing one of Professor Sir Walter Raleigh’s
remark on Dryden: that history has more
important things to do than fulfil the
prophecies of poets.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: There is the same irre-
deemable element of pathos in the story
of Bertha, the Malayan jungle girl, and
her Dutch mother as there was in the
Kyneton mixed-baby case. The other
day the Dutch mother went to the
dwelling in Singapore where her 13-year-
old daughter lives with her Malay husband
and her foster-mother Che Aminah. The
foster-mother said: “Why do you keep
fighting for her? You gave her to me.”
The mother denied this. Then the girl
appeared in native dress. Mrs. Hertogh
reproved her for not wanting to see her
mother and got the retort: “Why have
you come here? I have enough trouble
already.” A fierce argument in Malay
followed, tears and recriminations, and
Bertha said: “I am a Moslem and will
never leave my husband, and, anyhow,
you gave me away when I was a child,
so how can I love you?” The mother
stole a kiss and left weeping. The parents
are suing for the custody of their child,
but a legal enactment wouldn’t alter
Bertha’s feeling.
HAIR DOWN.
“In an amendment to the new Sales Tax Bill,
wigs, switches, artificial curls and pads are taken
out of the list of luxury goods at 33J per cent, tax
and go back to the 8$ per cent, rate.”
Oh, braid no more your shining hair,
You captivating glamor girls,
Nor tie men’s fancies, light as air,
In loops of artificial curls:
By order of the Government,
A matter of tax on sales.
Your hair is twenty-five per cent.
Less dear to us assess!ve males.
For hair’s no more a luxury,
Like Yankee cars or English duds,
But just a bare necessity,
Like butter, mutton, tea or spuds;
And therefore, fashionable witches,
Weaving your fascinating spells,
It’s no use using pads or switches—
You’ll have to show us something else.
What this may be is still a riddle,
For fashion’s hands have been so deft
At baring both ends and the middle,
There can’t be much of interest left:
It might be worth your while to ask
Some judge in Equity his view;
No doubt he’d relish such a task —
But wigs are at a discount, too.
Indeed, the sales-tax-schedule hooey
Has but one beneficial sequel,
It reassures the ageing roue —
His sins and hairs may still be equal;
But even here, it must be said,
A wig would hardly serve him well,
For how could women trust a head
So anxious both to kiss and tell?
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Bo”: It is not outside the bounds of
possibility that some day I may meet a
royal-commission witness who has a de-
pendable memory; a detective who really
wears a bowler hat; a bookie who admits
that he’s had a good day; a taxi-driver
who doesn’t drive along with his right hand
holding on to the miniature gutter on
the roof of his cab; I may even come
face to face with a basic-wage-eamer.
But compared with one mysterious citizen
these fellows are easy to come across.
I refer to the man who buys his Christmas
suit and his Easter suit. For years I
have been informed in ragshop advertise-
ments a month or so before each of those
festive occasions, to emulate the gent.,
otherwise I shall be disappointed. Why
he should specifically have a new suit for
Christmas is something I have never been
able to fathom. Does he don it cere-
moniously to dissect the duck or preside
over the pudding? And why doesn’t the
tailor adjure me to order my Guy
Fawkes’ Day suit or my Ash Wednesday
suit? I used to think I was just an
average bloke by ordering a suit when I
found the old one going at the knees,
or after the wife had informed me that,
having attended about 10 funerals and a
dozen weddings in the old one, I should
superannuate it and get a new one. I’m
almost convinced that such an attitude
constitutes me not only a freak but a
menace to the trade.
* * * *
“Ilex”; The driver of a 10-ton truck
hurtling along Hume Highway towards
Melbourne came upon a damsel sitting on
the running-board of her broken-down
baby car. He got out his tow-rope, and
travellers were treated to the sight of the
baby being towed
jauntily in the
wake of the
enormous
truck. All went
well till they
reached the top
of the long, steep
declivity known
as Pretty Sally,
The truck-driver
pulled up and
asked the girl
about her brakes.
She said that they
were none too
good. Visions of the pip-squeak diving
beneath his truck during the descent sug-
gested the hitching of it on in front of
the truck so that he could correct any
tendency to bolt downhill. Hence the
goggle-eyed amazement of passing
motorists at the spectacle of a baby car
apparently towing a 10-tonner.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Len Annois, back from a
world tour, made what, for an artist, is
an extraordinary suggestion. He said that,
instead of making claim on money and
industrial equipment, the authorities de-
termining reparations due to Australia
from Germany, Italy and Japan should
lay claim on some of the art treasures of
the conquered countries. Rembrandt’s
pictures aren’t the heritage of Germany,
Michelangelo’s sculptures aren’t the
heritage of Italy or Hokusai’s drawings
the heritage of Japan any more than
Rheims Cathedral is the heritage of
France and St. Paul’s of England—they
are the heritage of the whole world., The
value of a work of art lies in its lesthetic
quality, not its market price, and the
Government or millionaire who possesses
“ Identification? Do I have to show my BIRTHMARK?”
it doesn’t own it as much as I do, if I
have the ability to understand it and he
hasn’t. Australia has no more real claim
on the art treasures of those countries
than the countries which possess them,
and the mere bringing of them out here
would be no guarantee that we’d appre-
ciate them.
* * * ♦
“Melbn”: For as far back as
can remember a middle-aged, well-built,
well-dressed man of over 6ft. has walked
once a year into the Lud Mayor’s Appeal
office in Melbourne, tossed on to the
counter a bundle of notes worth £lOO to
£2OO and walked out without giving his
name or asking for a receipt. He was a
bit late this year, and officials feared the
anonymous giver had died or left the
State, but he turned up the other day
and departed as anonymous as ever.
Secretary Burton expressed great dis-
appointment that he had missed him again,
as he would have liked to extract his
secret from him. A mistake, in my
opinion. The Good Samaritan obviously
likes his anonymity, which differentiates
him from almost every other philan-
"Trying to win the lottery, Sandra, is nothing but an absolute gamble !"
thropist in Melbourne; the loss of it
might dry up his inspiration. At the
height of his fame Rodin said that he
hated his enormous reputation and
would sooner have worked anonymously
on some great cathedral in the Middle
Ages.
“1.H.”; Sir Alan Herbert paid a
tribute to The Bulletin during his
address, “The British Laugh,” in
Tyrrell Hall, Newcastle. He said
that when he and Sir Charles B.
Cochran were preparing revues they
referred to back files of “Punch” for a
true picture of fashions, habits and
atmosphere of the past. The old joke-
blocks reflected life as it was in the times.
“Imagine someone in a.d. 2000 doing
that to see what the people were like in
1950,” Sir Alan said. “They could never
see what we were like from the drawings
in ‘Punch’ and ‘The New York-r’ to-
day. I think your Bulletin is better. Ir
‘The New Yorker’ all the women look
like hyenas. All the men are bald or
paunchy. There are no good-looking
young people until you come to the
advertisements. Comic art,” he added,
“ought to mirror life as it is at the
moment.”
♦ * * ♦
“Xenexer”: No need to delve into past
history to find instances of youthful
precocity (B. 8/11/ ’5O). My nippers have
two books which were illustrated as well
as written by youngsters. They are Mrs.
Fleeting’s Circus by Angela Ogden, aged
12 —her second book —and Ladybird
Garden by Dagma Dawson, aged 11.
♦ * * *
“T.L.”: “Bamekaw” (B. 8/11/ ’5O) is
among many who have been humiliated
on hearing playbacks of their voices. As
one who has given scores of auditions to
would-be radio announcers, I have found
that the short-cut to proof of inadequacy
is to “cut” an audition and let the speaker
hear his voice on disk. This practice
usually results in radio aspirants realising
(after their initial incredulity that this
was indeed a faithful reproduction) that
their talents lie elsewhere. A fairly true
representation of how your voice sounds
to the other fellow is to cup the hand to
ear and mouth and say your piece.
Unless yours is a real radio voice you
will find the result surprising anc
disappointing.
* * * *
“Clis”; “Erjos” spoke of th
Bavarian farm - frau’s bread - making
ability (B. I /11 / *5O), but her versatilit;
embraced far more than that. As
p.-0.-w. I was astonished at the things
she could do—swing a scythe from light
till dark, plough and harrow, dig potatoes
and load them like a man, wield hoe or
spade, load the hay-wagon, drag the
crosscut, free her wagon when it bogged,
and efficiently perform all the household
chores. Her fine needlework was
faultless. From her own two or three
sheep she could shear the wool, scour it
and then spin and weave it into cloth, or
else knit it into excellent garments of
tasteful patterns. She preserved her own
meats, preserved vegetables and fruits
to last over the winter, and when the
materials were available she could turn
out an irreproachable meal. My mouth
still waters at the recollection of Brussels
sprouts a la Bayern, her apfel Strudel
was a delight, and when she cooked a
goose it was a feast!
* * * *
“Dolmetcher”: A smattering of
German got me the job of interpreter in
our p.-0.-w., camp towards the end of
’43. Jerry was getting right down to the
bottom of the manpower barrel —and of
the equipment-chest, too. The new mob
of decrepit ancients called-up were out-
fitted in a motley consisting of Yugo
forage caps, Russki pants, Hungarian
tunics, etc. Even their foot-rags were
allegedly cut from lint purloined from
the p.-0.-w. medical supplies. But there
was nothing much wrong with their
rifles ; it made a man nearly weep to see
the good old .303 bundook in such hands.
Also, since the blighters knew nothing
about handling
them, in self-defence
the p.-0.-w. had to
show them how not
to load and handle
them. It was quite
a joke the first time
a Jerry put a bullet
in his foot, but when
the night - guards
started putting holes
in the walls of the
huts, not to mention
the prisoners who
were sleeping in
them, something had to be done. As for
the interpreting, I’d just about got the
hang of their barbaric backwoods
Deutsch, even to the extent of writing
what they fondly hoped were love-letters
to their presumably equally illiterate
families. But the ultimate in topsy-
turvydom wasn’t reached till the inspect-
ing General came round, and I was called
on to translate their complaints into a
variety of German intelligible to the
brasshat.
* * * *
“Wester”: About the only equivalent
we have in this country to the opening
of the American deer-shooting season is
our duck season. Anybody who has
prowled at dawn with other shooters the
inland waters from the Macquarie
swamps to Lake Boga on the opening
day knows that accidents are likely to
occur. They seldom do. Apparently it’s
a lot different when you go deer-shooting.
When the season opened in Michigan a
couple of weeks ago three fathers shot
their sons, a son shot his father and 15
others were wounded in the first two
days. The excuse in almost every case
was: “I saw something moving in the
brush.”
♦ * ♦ *
“W.P.T.”: Claims regarding the origin-
ators of the no-hat brigade remind me
that I wore my first pair of shoes as an
adult in 1916 and was regarded as
effeminate for doing so. The real he-
men wore boots, and as I walked down
Oxford-street, Sydney, wearing shoes and
black socks with fancy clocks up the
sides, I was whistled on all sides. With
the shoes came silk shoe-laces 2in. wide,
which were fastened in a big butterfly
bow. As shoes became more popular the
laces underwent a change; instead of
displaying the bow the ends were con-
cealed inside the shoe. Then followed
a period of gaiety in shoes. There were
black-and-white, tan-and- white, black-
and-tan, ox-blood and plain tans varying
from very light to very dark. And, of
course, there were the fancy socks.
Nowadays both shoes and fancy socks
seem to be so firmly on their feet that
it is unusual to see a man wearing boots ;
even the services have substituted shoes
for boots.
FOOLPROOF TESTS.
“There is too much reliance placed on the face
for character-reading. Hands can be a very im-
portant factor, too.” —Sunday paper .
It’s possible you’d be misled
If some man’s worth you’d estimate
Because he had a bullet-head,
A beetle-brow, a furtive gait.
Such attributes may predicate,
Quite falsely, a possessor rude,
One whom good men would execrate;
Whose life is sunk in turpitude.
His close-set eyes may seem to you
To indicate some evil ways
(Romantic novelists are few
Who’d trust a man who wouldn’t raise
His eyes, or fails to hold your gaze).
For him who owns a hangdog scowl
You’re ever likely to dispraise
And claim he’d have a temper foul.
Reflect, however, that much more
Than these by which to understand
Character is a newer lore:
The fruitful study of the hand.
Who reads it well may thus command
Full knowledge of the inner soul.
Who leaves the human paw unscanned
Is, in the parlance, “up the pole.”
It may be pudgy, soft and white.
And like a dead fish placed in yours.
What utterly revolting plight!
What poor digital signatures!
Such action never reassures.
Who’d say that Machiavellian guile
Is his who slowly manicures
His fingers with a twelve-inch file?
I wouldn’t bother, though, to see
If hands were calloused, knotted, tough,
Or think long, tapered fingers be
The sign of artistry—that’s guff.
To me this portent is enough
To judge a man: That he should close
His hand into a fist, sans bluff,
Then shake it fiercely ’neath your nose!
But lovely woman! Ah! Who’d bring
Such crude and brutal test to her?
The tiny fingers poets sing
Alone would such a thought deter.
I would, however, not demur
From glancing at her thumb, to hit
On if she’s one who would prefer
To keep a husband under it.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Just after tea we heard
the J. G. Arnold’s paddles flogging the
water downstream around the bend, and
we moved slowly down to the landing
to await her coming. The night was
frosty, everything save the water was
still, and the moon made strong black
shadows among the timber along the
bank. We talked idly while we waited,
sometimes pausing to listen as wood-
duck wailed somewhere over the billa-
bong or the faint, far-off howl of a dingo
came from deep in the south. Below
us the river chuckled and talked
mysteriously among the gum-roots, for it
was high-water and the Murray was
“Hang on to him, Sam, We can sell him to the zoo!”
hurrying along. Steadily through the
white, frosty silence came the clunka-
plunk-clunk of the steamer’s paddles, and
our eyes turned now and then to the
bend, expecting to see her headlights
come staring round it, and to hear her
whistle hoot as she sighted Tapalin lights,
Then the sound of her passage increased,
and somebody said “Aw, she’s only just
turned into the Seven-mile; be another
hour before she gets here. Let’s go an’
nave a cup o’ tea.” It was cold on the
river-bank and all hands were glad to
adjourn. It Was nearly two hours before
the steamer came battling upstream in
the moonlight, and then she turned out
to be the Invincible and went thundering
past, deaf to our shouts, for we were out
of tobacco, sugar and flour. We stayed
out of them for nearly a week, the
Arnold having blown a tube near Mallee
Cliffs and tied up for repairs.
* * * *
“Old Bushman”; There’s one man in
Victoria who looked sourly on all efforts
to end the
Victorian rail
strike. He’s a
road - squatter
who, sensing
the rise in
wool, months
ago bought
a few hundred
old ewes. They’re now mud-fat after
feeding on the main Melbourne-Sydney
line for 30 days. I’m not saying exactly
where. He’s bought enough beer for the
local stationmaster as it is.
* * ♦ *
“Kelms”: Thirty-two years ago a
prospector, mounted on a push-bike, was
lost between Anaconda and Leonora
(W.A.). He had the usual bagful of gold,
but he differed from the usual run of
such lost treasure-troves in that he was
known to have been making the trip and,
when it became evident that he was lost,
a search was organised. He wasn’t found,
but now 1 his bicycle has turned up, found
by natives in spinifex country near
Breakaways. Men who took part in the
original search recall how they followed
the cycle-tracks until they vanished in
the hard going, and they’re wondering
how close they passed to where the poor
devil was lying—and still lies. He’ll
probably never be found, now, but it’s a
moral certainty many will seek him and
his gold. At that he’s got all the attri-
butes of immortality, although he’ll be-
come more and more obscured by that
growing heap of gold—worth a million,
they say.
♦ * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We didn’t know whose
house it was, but the veranda was cool
and we decided to wait a while to see
if somebody turned up. Mat had a look
through a pile of magazines on a table,
pursed his lips, and said “Well, I reckon
we better push on. Must be a lot o’
wimmen here. All these books is full o’
love-stories. Only wimmen read them.
If there was blokes here there’d be
sportin’ papers an’ adventure yarns an’
that sort o’ thing. Come on.” We
shouldered the knots and drifted. About
an hour later I said: “Wonder why
wimmen go for them love-stories an’
blokes don’t?” “Easy,” Mat grunted.
“You ever see a bloke gone on a girl?
Ain’t he a first-class fool? He don’t
know whether it’s Tuesday or half-past
four; acts like a big kid ; give y’ the
willies, he would. Well, wimmen know
that. Blokes know it, too, after they bin
through it, so they don’t want t’ read
about it because they know them love-
sick heroes y’ read about is all me eye.
Wimmen lap it up. The only time they
got a bloke where they want him is when
he’s gone on ’em, an’ every time they
read a love yam they reckon they’re the
herowhine, an’ they got the bloke in
the yarn loopin’ the flamin’ loop for ’em.
That’s why, y’ dope.” We started to
climb the long sandhill into Pinnaroo
then and the discussion ceased.
* * * »
“K.R.”: Still can’t agree with “Bass”
that there is the slightest possibility that
insects and plants could reason “before
they fell into the grip of the stultifying
Communism from which they’ve never
escaped” (B. 15/11/’5O). Man has, in
the past, been imprisoned by many forms
of tyranny and has always fought out
to freedom; any present enslavement is
therefore unlikely to be permanent. In-
sects and plants would surely have simi-
larly escaped had they ever possessed any
“Oh, boy! Can you speak French? "
reasoning-power. As for modification of
species, I insist that it has never been
caused by conscious reasoning. I dis-
miss as absolutely fantastic the idea that
degeneration of a particular organ (the
little toe, for instance) is the result of
conscious planning by generations of the
animal concerned. Rather is it the altera-
tion in living conditions (such as occurs
in an Ice Age) which causes some formerly
useful bodily feature to be rendered use-
less, atrophying and finally disappearing.
This quite-unconscious development takes
millions of years as a rule to come about.
Perhaps I can prove my point by again
citing man as an example. His bodily
hair (once some sort of protection against
cold and storm) is now, apart from the
topknot, a useless disfigurement. We
have changed our living conditions by
wearing clothes. This, I grant, we have
done consciously, but in a few thousand
years we have not been able consciously
to stop growing bodily hair—though pos-
sibly in time we shall.
* ♦ * ♦
“Bo”: Barker came slowly out of his
tool-shed, which, leaning at an angle, was
temporarily being saved from collapsing
by the tree-branch he had propped against
one side. Barker carried a hammer and
a few rusty nails, Mrs. B.’s steady half-
hour’s talking at him at breakfast having
worn his resistance down to the point
where, for peace sake, he felt impelled
to stop the flapping of the loose rail m
the gate that had been annoying her for
months. He cursed as he stubbed his
boot against the old rusty plough-share
that was completely covered by the pas-
palum, and just missed tripping over the
harrow which had been lying there since
before the last rains. As he reached the
roadside gate Joe Ratcliffe went past in
the car he had had only a few months.
The off-rear fender had been badly
buckled. Barker looked after it as he
leaned against one of the gateposts, the
thick vertical mud tunnels on which pro-
claimed that it had long been the victim
of termites. “It’s funny with some
blokes,” he said to the gatepost. “They
pay hundreds o’ quids out for an item
of property an’ then don’t bother lookin’
after it. I can’t make ’em out! ” •
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Betcha”: After a lifetime of earning
a crust, with and without accompanying
cheese, from the soil, I have now wit-
nessed the amazing spectacle of grass-
paddocks dying through too much rain.
Not only sown-down areas, but native
grasses also are curling and yellowing in
protest against waterlogged conditions.
Rain has been so frequent that for months
the hooves of stock have hardly been
dry. Foot-abscess has lamed many of
my animals, and footrot hangs over the
district like a pall. Two dams have burst
their banks, and, try as I do, I’m hanged
if I can find a bloke with bulldozer or
tractor booked up less than 18 months
ahead. In three gullies the fences have
gone completely, while subdivisions have
been damaged till it seems a waste of time
drafting sheep into different paddocks.
With the extended wet, the wool on my
jumbucks has grown yellow and dingy,
with large patches of green discoloration ;
and at award rates I have paid rousies
and classer four weeks’ screw for my
eight days’ shearing. Further, I have
listened long and faithfully to my offsider
bewailing the complete loss of garden
annuals, and choice shrubs “that have
never died before.” I recall the times
during past decades when I have been
stone motherless broke as a result of
opposite conditions, but I am not growl-
ing. I am merely recording these facts
to reflect upon during the next drought.
• * * ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: Those Cocos
Island Malays who bet on scorpion
fights (B. 25/10/’5O) would have felt at
home with the Light Horse in the Middle
East in War I. There the opponents were
spider and scorpion, and it was a good
even-money bet on either of them. The
two were introduced into a round bully-
beef tin, and there was never any hesita-
tion-—they made straight for each other
and clinched. There were some big
fellows among them, particularly in the
Jordan Valley, where the greeny-black
scorpions ran to 4in. long. The spiders
were built in proportion, with long arm-
spans, and some good fights were
witnessed. The heaviest betting occurred
when champions met —say A com-
pany’s champion spider versus B lines’
unbeaten scorpion. He had to be un-
beaten to be alive, for no quarter was
given. It was generally reckoned that the
loser was the one whose foot slipped in a
clinch. He seldom got a second chance.
* * * *
“Eurimburra”; Thumpville, well up-
river and with few contacts with the big
town at the stream’s mouth, was a tight
little community. The inhabitants had
married and intermarried to such an ex-
tent that when Smithy took over the little
school he found his charges a mixture of
comebacks and throwbacks who spoke a
species of English that was almost a
dialect. Realising what a handicap it
would be to those who, in later life,
would be fortunate enough to get away.
Smithy set to work to spend more time
on the rudiments of correct speech than
the curriculum demanded. Results were
immediate, first casualty was Tommy
Bartlett, who
arrived at
school one
morning with a
horribly thick
ear, the result
of reminding
his old man
that the word
“anyth i ng”
ended with a “g” and not a “k.”
Further diversion came a day or
so later when Peter Anderson, staunch
worker for the little school, arrived
there as the kids were getting a
lesson in English. Without preamble
and in fluent Thumpvillian, Peter
launched into his scheme for a better
playground, slaughtering syntax as he
went and bringing audible titters from
the class. When his father paused for
breath Peter Jr., doubtless believing him-
self to be in a somewhat privileged posi-
tion and feeling that a rebuke, even in
public, was called for, squeaked “Gee,
Dad, if you were in Mr. Smith’s class
he’d give you hell.”
JIMMY BOAKE AND MR. POTT.
This happened very long ago
When learning was both weals and woe:
Young Jimmy Boake, a mate of mine,
Just simply would not toe the line.
So —’twas the way then in the trade—
Of him a warning dire was made.
Dead silence in that classroom dim
Meant that “Old Pott” was whacking Jim.
And Jim, of course, thus over-tanned,
Case-hardened grew in hide and hand,
And to alleviate his lot
Would do his best to “shin” Old Pott.
Moreover, spite of all Pott’s zeal
To best a foe so worth his steel
Jim Boake, and this you will deplore,
Remained three years in standard four.
His books were in a filthy plight,
His money-sums were never right;
As for his spelling—hold your breaths —
’Twas worse than Queen Elizabeth’s.
Worse still, he left school uncontrite;
You’ll say with me “And serve him right.”
Without a single reference
Jim Boake took up in self-defence
The hawking round the burg of fish,
A lowlier calling none could wish.
A villain of the deepest die—
“ Where he has fallen let him lie,”
You’ll say of Boake; and so said I.
But, just to thwart the scheme divine
Contrived to make Boake toe the line,
Jim’s business grew so large that he
Floated a fishing company.
You query, “Was this growth quite sound?”
Well, groper fetched ten pence per pound.
They’d such a grip upon the trade
That Boake and Co. their fortunes made.
I know, because I keeqp accounts
Of all the various amounts
That weekly flow into Jim’s fisc
Without the slightest toil or risk.
Old “Whacker Pott” is still alive,
And proud to see his pupil thrive.
When Jim our mayor-elect became
He humbly said “I owe my fame
To Mr. Pott. His ceaseless care,
Of which I think I got my share,
It mainly was that made of me
A merchant ot integrity.”
I take it that the pleasure found
In standing now on equal ground
With some pedantic semi-fraud
Who made our youthful lives so hard
Is an exceeding great reward.
And Mr. Pott believes that Jim
In no way overpraises him.
N.Z.
F.L. COMBS.


§
i
We have not
heard from Bill,
of Battery Flat,
for some time
now, and presume
he must be flood-
bound, but we did hear from a cove in
S.A. who claimed to be a keen reader of
“Radio Rouseabout” for some 12 months
now. He reckoned in that time he had
learnt more about “wireless” than over
the last 25 years. He went crook on us,
though, for not showing any illustrations
of the Mullard receivers.
Well, we have covered a lot of ground
in that time and talked about many things
relating to radio. This time we have
included illustrations of the Battery
Operated Portable Receiver, Model 1050
remember,
the one Bill
used in his
sulky that had
all the Aus-
tralian st a -
tions clearly
marked on
the dial.
There was
also the 1001,
the little A.C.
receiver that
UN
'
Mullard Model 1050
in the country gives equal performance
to most of the larger receivers and makes
an ideal “second set.”
All Australian stations are also clearly
marked o n
the 1001 dial
scale, and
there is bed-
side switch-
ing—the on/
off power
switch is in-
corporated in
the volume
control. This
friendly little
receiver is ten inches long and seven
inches high, and, like all the Mullard
range, is totally enclosed —quite a con-
sideration if mice should happen to be
around.
Finally, the 1111, the job that has the
Mullard Model 1001
exclusive Mullard Short-wave Expander—
the device that makes short-wave tuning
as easy as tun-
ing -in your
favourite
local station.
We claim
that, with the
Expander,
you can tune
into short-
wave stations .. „
with your Milliard Model 1111
foot! This set also has the beautifully
clear perspex dial.
Of course, we would like these pictures
to be in colour, as the portable is blue
and silver, the 1001 is in six lovely
colours and the 1111 is finished in highly
polished mahogany bakelite.
Needless to say, all are equipped with
Mullard World-Famous Radio Valves.
—Advt.
fd
f
“Billy T.”: Janie, my cow, is becoming
a trifle uppish. During the winter, when
feed was low, we were glad of any bite of
greenstuff that could be had, and didn’t
hesitate to accept it; but now after the
wettest year ever, the position is different.
Backyards usually trim and clean are this
season overgrown with rank trefoil and
grassland whereas a while back we were
hunting fodder the gardeners are now
hunting us. At first we —Janie and I—
grabbed any offer that came along; but
as the weather warmed the offers became
requests, and we had a waiting list. The
earlier remark “You could put that old
cow in my backyard for a few days; it
would pick her up a bit,” soon changed
to, “There’s real good grass at my place ;
I think your milker would like it.” By
this time Janie and I had sensed the swing
of the market, and when somebody edged
up alongside as we sauntered home and
said “Are you looking for grass for your
cow?” we were prepared. I’d say that we
weren’t really, but if he was having trouble
with the garden we might be able to
help him out,
and what sort
of grass was
it? If he said
it was buffalo
and prairie,
Janie would
drop her eye-
lids and stop
chewing; and
I’d have to say
I’d see what we could do, but
couldn’t promise anything under a
week. But if he said it was blasted
clover up over your knees and it had him
beat, Janie would roll her eye at me and
lick her lips, and I’d say that possibly we’d
be able to fit him in tomorrow, and then
give him another day in a fortnight, may-
be, in case it had got ahead of him again.
A dear old lady who is battling to keep her
place clean has our chief support, but
from there we make sundry excursions to
take choice pickings or help those who
ask nicely. Janie’s ribs have vanished
from view ; she has acquired an unhurried
gait; and the bucket is a brimmer. She
is not ungrateful—a small contribution
towards the garden’s welfare is always
left with her hosts; but I’m just a bit
afraid that she is on the borderline of
bovine snobbery.
♦ * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver had just come
back from a down-country droving trip.
He sat on the hut step and filled his pipe
thoughtfully, “Hey, Sol, there’s Chinks
in that there war they’re fightin’ some-
where now, ain’t there?” he asked
presently. “In Korea? Yair; Chinese
Commos. Why?” “Reckoned there must
be,” he mused. “Crook, ain’t it. Young
Bailey enlisted an’ went there. They had
a letter about ’im. Been in a lot o’
fightin’, an’ now he’s got himself wounded
pretty bad.” “Bailey? That the bloke
that started farming the other side of
town?” “That’s ’im,” said Seventyfiver.
“He left ten cows on ’is farm so they’d
breed an’ he’d have somethin’ t’ come
back to, but six of ’em got shoved over
the gorge, one died calvin’ an’ the other
three’s got foot-abscess so bad they’ll be
a dead loss.” Seventyfiver puffed for a
few minutes, then: “Somebody must ’a’
camped in Bailey’s house las’ week,” he
began again, “an’ left the fire burnin’.
Whole place went up in smoke.” “Gripes,
that’s tough.” “Yair,” he agreed, “but
not as tough as the road gettin’ shifted
clean through his block an’ cuttin’ him
off from water. His farm ain’t no good
at all now.” “He’s had a stiff trot,” I
grunted sympathetically. “Aw, well, I
reckon it ain’t a fair go,” snorted Seventy-
fiver, “sendin’ blokes t’ fight Chinks.
Easy seen young Bailey must ’a’ killed
one of ’em.”
* * * *
“M.E.M.”; For as many years as I
remember mountain ducks have nested in
a dead tree in the homestead paddock.
I have seen them many times, Ma and
ducklings in single file, footslogging to
Lake Corangamite, five miles away, with
plenty of broken-wing act when
approached on horseback or foot. On
one occasion only I saw ducklings leaving
the nest (B. 8/11/’50); they were pushed
out, while the duck flew under near the
ground to break with her wing the fall
of the flapping little bird as it touched-
down. This year, travelling by car be-
tween homestead and lake-paddock, I
saw Mrs. M.D., and stopped to show two
small daughters the ducklings. To my
“Tails YOU Walk backwards.”
surprise three were on the roadside and
eight still in the paddock of the nesting
tree, a sft. stone wall between. We
watched quietly while the duck flew from
paddock to wall-top and down to road-
side. Each time one duckling climbed
slowly and carefully up the tiny ledges
of the stone wall and over the top, to
flop down in the thick grass. With the
muster complete they all stepped out and
headed for the lake.
* * * *
“Bass”: I’ve known Mallee-hens to
postpone the laying of their eggs when
exceptionally late rains delayed the nest-
building programme; and I’ve always
credited the likeable bush-bird with a
unique power. I now find' that it’s
possessed to a remarkable degree by my
budgerigar. Twelve months ago, when
moving to a new locality, I placed a pair
in a small cage without a nest, and until
the other day I didn’t find time to provide
one. For 12 months the hen-bird showed
no signs of laying, nor any ill-effects
from this cessation of her natural func-
tion (she’d laid before). Immediately the
nest was provided she investigated it
excitedly, and succeeded in interesting
her spouse. Followed a whirlwind court-
ship, then, within a week, an egg. She
is now sitting, and I presume, from
previous efforts, that she will continue
laying while the first eggs are hatching.
In fact, as the first offspring are growing
she’ll probably pass over to them the job
of hatching out their younger brothers
and sisters. She’s a prolific layer ; which
makes all the more remarkable her
previous abstinence from laying.
w * * *
“Rooster”: It’s questionable whether
the light of fireflies and glowworms
originates from bacteria (B. 15/11 /’5O).
Light - production in insects normally
occurs within the living cell, and is con-
trolled by the nervous system. The
European firefly ( Luciola ) extinguishes
its light at once when beheaded ; but it
glows again if the severed nerve cord is
electrically stimulated. There are several
species of luminous insects which possess
different colors in their “lamps.” As a
striking example, the “railroad-worm”
(Phryxothrix) possesses a red light on
the head and a row of greenish-yellow
lights on each flank. In other species the
light is “flashed” on and off almost at
will. Just how all this is accomplished
still puzzles scientists, though it is certain
that oxidation of a substance contained
within the living cell by an enzyme is the
main principle,
♦ * * ♦
“Blime”: Dill locked the door of his
hut, pocketed the key and turned to his
nag. “See in the paper where a cove got
his house broke inter,” he remarked,
“and all ’is things shook. So I got a lock
f’r me door.” The safety or otherwise
of Dill’s pannikin and billy didn’t merit
any reply beyond a grunt from me. We
worked together during the day, and,
approaching his hut that night, Dill
began slapping his pockets. “Gripes, I’ve
lorst me flamin’ key,” he announced.
“Now what’s a bloke to do? If I was
inside I c’d take half the lock off with a
screwdriver. Yair, that’s it; I better get
in through the hole in the roof.” “Go
on then. I’ll wait till you get in.” Dill
got a long pole, shoved it against the
roof, and began shinning up, making more
noise than progress. Three parts of the
way up, the pole slipped. He struggled,
made a grab and caught the roof, and
presently disappeared. Soon came sounds
from inside the door; then after a bit
Dill’s head again appeared through the
roof. He skidded down to the pole, tried
to get hold of it with his feet, thrashed
around, and fell the rest of the way to the
ground. “Couldn’t you get her open?” I
inquired. “Eh? Yair, I took the whole
lock off,” he explained, making for the
door, “Should be right. Ah, there y’ are ;
yes, she opens awright now.”
* * * ♦
“Kelms”: An albino cobbler has been
caught in W.A. It’s an extreme rarity,
and we’re asking ourselves if it’s unique.
It’s white, and has pink eyes, fins and
spikes. Add those oddities to the
cobbler’s usual formidable appearance
and you can imagine that this beast was
rather terrifying. The lack of coloring is
caused by a deficiency of coloring organ-
isms in the skin, exactly the same condi-
tion as is responsible for human and
animal albinos. This phenomenon occurs
in all races and in most species of
animals ; but in fish? Weff. There it is.
Anyone know of a similar case?
» • * *
“E.”: Smithie was holding a mob of
ewes and lambs in the comer and glaring
up the road towards Sam Watson’s.
“Aw, this idea o’ workin’ in with y’r
neighbor is no good,” he growled, as
I pulled up. “Such a lot o’ jobs a man
can’t do on his own and there’s no such
thing as gettin’ labor. Take crutchin’
IT instance,” he explained. “Or brand-
in’ calves, or draftin’, or a dozen more
things like that. Man just can’t manage.
That’s why me ’n’ Sam made them
arrangements.” “And won’t Sam co-
operate?” “That’s it,” growled Smithie.
“He won’t co-operate. Now lamb-markin’
time’s round again, an’ see the mob he’s
yardin’ this mornin’? Got the flamin’
phone on he has, too, an’ all he had t’
do was gimme a ring last night an’ ask
me what about doin’ ’em t’day. But no,
he’s got no consideration, that bloke.
Just says nothin’, an’ goes ahead, ’cos
it’s a nice day ; then he’ll ring me at
midday t’ say he’s got ’em ready.”
“Yair, I see,” I sympathised. “Doesn’t
give you any notice and it upsets your
plans. You can’t do them this after-
noon?” “Well, how can we do ’em?”
he snorted. “Can’t do two lots; an
don’t y’ see, I’ve just mustered all these
o’ mine t’ do today.”
♦ * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; Afraid I’m one of
“Anthrop’s” out-dated teat-pullers who
will insist on stripping the udder right
out (B. 17/5/’5O). I know that modem
reasoning condemns the practice, largely
on the score that it tends to rupture the
tissues and leave an opening for germs.
But all my training protests that the more
completely the cow is stripped the longer
she’ll remain in full production. I’ve
seen the same theory proved in other
fields. If I pick the peas as they fill
I’ll get practically continuous cropping
for three weeks. Let the first picking
remain on the bushes, and the following
flowers don’t set. Pumpkins yield better
if each “fruit” is picked as it matures.
So do lemons. In a variety of ways I’ve
seen demonstrated nature’s efforts to pro-
duce as much as possible without waste,
and I still hold that a cow will produce
more milk if what she produces is taken
regularly and fully. Now from Sweden
comes the result of an experiment which
shows that “the fat content of the milk
rises from the first to the last drop
taken.... Quick and complete milking is
essential.” Which suggests that a job
well started should be well finished —if
you want the cream.
PLOVER, MERN MERNA.
Blue-dark it is, and plover fly
Lonely, unseen, with bitter cry,
With twilight withering
Far in the western sky.
On jagged hill and plain
Lie empty hearths; never again
Will firestick star the dark: plover
Cry for their men in vain—
Cry out, cry in this desolate place,
While the relentless stars efface
The day, cry to the tribes
The ancient legend of the race.
S.A.
IRENE GOUCH.


df
d
fd
BOARD OF DIRECTORS*
SteWart (Chairman) 5 Sir Lennon Raws,
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C. 8.8.; G. D, Young; W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
?R AC P * C - ie ’ Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
Mo^££*K ( Cß“Trl* CadwallSder, Sir Leslie
MorsheaA KX.B., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.: David Wilson,
M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Sir Lennon Raws, C. 8.8.; Thoma*
B. Heffcr.
NfS.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Have You Made Your WHIP
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd. Executor and Trustee under
your Will, you safeguard your Estate and secure continuity of service.
The Company, which was incorporated in Victoria in 1878, is empowered by Special Acts of
Parliament to operate in Victoria and New South Wales.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following: • Advantages of appointing the
Company, cither alone or Jointly, with some trusted relative or friend • Moderate and fixed
scale of charges • Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
SLE
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £968,009
The WILDCAT COLUMN
Bank of Adelaide
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1942 . . 66.541 5i p.c. = 65,625 916 1,032,192
1943 .. 67,014 6 „ „ 62,500 4,514 1,036,706
1944.. 60,216 5 „ ,,62,500 3,716 1,040,422
1945.. 67,540 5 „ ,, 62,500 5,040 1,045,462
1946 ,. 69,585 5 „ „ 62,500 7,085 1,052,547
1947 .. 79,970 5f „ „ 71,875 8,095 1,060,642
From inner reserves, £250,000 ..1,310,042
1948 .. 89,127 7 p.c. = 87,500 1,627 1,312,269
1949 .. 101,675 8 „ ,,100,000 1,675 1,313,944
1950.. 104,678 8 „ ,,100,000 4,678 1,318,622
Last term Sir Howard Lloyd, who had
sat at the board table for 34 years and
at the head of it for the last 23 of them,
retired. Into the vacant chair has
stepped O. L. Isaachsen, who used to be
general-manager. At the recent annual
roll-up the burden of, his remarks to
shareholders concerned the inflationary
dangers of an overloaded economy. He
pointed out that before it had recovered
from the shocks of war, and before it
had overtaken war-time shortages, the
Australian economy had become bur-
dened with enormous new efforts. Many
of these projects, laudable in their proper
time and place, were now competing for
labor, materials and capital which would
otherwise become available for use in
production of a greater volume of more
urgently needed goods, which are
essential if a lower standard of living is
to be avoided.
At the moment our inflationary pres-
sures arise from without and within —a
greatly-expanded export income and
spiralling wage-cost structure, which last-
mentioned promises to be the more stub-
born of the two. The mere existence of
money, or money claims, does not in it-
self create inflation; but expenditure
does. In this connection there is more
to be feared from Government than from
private spending, because the first
accelerates the second and is financed by
taxation and/or borrowing.
While higher standards of social
and health services, and of edu-
cation, and a rapid capital de-
velopment and a vigorous policy of im-
migration are all eminently desirable,
they need to be carefully geared to the
capacity of the economy, especially when
defence priorities are superimposed, if
serious inflation is to be avoided. Another
factor involving the principle of stability
is the need to relate increases in wage-
rates with increased productivity, either
through increased efficiency or effort.
The private trading banks are steer-
ing an anti-inflationary course, and have
been for some time. They have not
faltered in their co-operation with the
Commonwealth Bank, which is em-
powered to regulate the direction, nature
and volume of their advances, the pro-
portion of their deposits to be frozen on
“special” account at % p.c. interest, the
rates they can pay and charge for de-
posits and advances, as well as the volume
of their investments in Government and
other securities. The overall aim of
directives issued in connection with these
matters is to avoid aggravating exist-
ing pressures on the money side.
It is thus plain that all the main factors
affecting the earning-power of the private
banks are controlled. Still, no specific
floor or ceiling is prescribed for dividend
rates, which have been allowed to rise to
moderate levels in relation to share-
holders’ funds.
Appearances are that the bulk of profits
come from the investment basket these
days. The 85-year-old Adelaide, whose
activities are confined mainly to its home
State, was able to show an extra £3003
of profit last term. The £104,678 of
profit claimed was the best showing for
the last 20 years, being 8.3 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 8.1, 7,1, 6.4, 5.6 and 5.4
p.c. back to 1945. On shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined) the
year’s profit was only a wink over 4 p.c.
The div. was kept at 8 p.c.
Inflationary conditions have spelt
liquidity for trade and industry, and
therefore economy in the use of bank
funds;
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Notes . . ~ 6,489 6,489 6,489
Deposits, etc. .. 19,677,404 21,491,129 29,188,490
Due other banks.. 295,554 72,855 1,116,128
Pinal div. .. 50,000 50,000 50,000
Liquids .. ~ 15,946,837 18,399,434 25,389,775
Advances .. .. 6,108,948 5,881,213 6,920,786
Premises, etc. .. 453,962 455,232 499,438
Other assets .. 86,968 104,537 169,731
Last term’s growth of £7,697,361 in de-
posits, etc., was accompanied by an ex-
pansion of £6,940,341 in low-interest-
bearing liquids and an increase of only
£1,039,573 in advances. The amount
frozen on “special” account was
£13,718,000 (up £5,000,000), equal to 47
p.c, of deposits, etc. The co.’s position
is a very strong one.
Since the beginning of 1950 the price
of the f.-p. £1 shares has fluctuated be-
tween 375. and 445. 3d. At the current
figure of 425. 9d. the return is 3.7 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is 41s. Id,
Queensland Insurance Cos., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends, serves, serves.
& £> & £>
1944.. 163,976 10 p.c. = 75.000 88,976 1,356,213
To reserve unexpired risks, £15,000.. 1,370,213
1945.. 192,432 10 p.c. = 75,000 117,432 1,487,645
To reserve unexpired risks, £65,000.. 1,552,645
1946.. 177,063 10 p.c. = 75,000 102.063 1,654,708
To reserve unexpired risks, £105,000.. 1,759,708
1947.. 196,429 10 p.c. = 75,000 121,429 1,881,137
To reserve unexpired risks, £150,000 2,031,137
1948.. 202,505 10 p.c. = 75,000 127,505 2,158,642
To reserve unexpired risks, £IOO,OOO 2,258,642
1949.. 206,903 12J p.c. = 93,750 113,153 2,371,795
To reserve unexpired risks, £120,000.. 2,491,795
1950.. 226,501 p.c. = 93,750 132,751 2,024,546
This rapidly-expanding 64 - year - old
Sydney-controlled fire, marine and acci-
dent office, with world-wide connections,
has decided to yet further underpin its
already strong financial structure and
wide goodwill (of which no account is
taken in the books) by offering those on
the register at January 31, 1951, 750,000
new £1 shares at par, one for one. The
money is wanted ss. a share application
on March 31, and a further ss. at the end
of Sept. next. The remaining 10s. is to be
called as and when required. Payments
in advance will not carry interest. And
the board says it is reasonable to expect
that the dividend rate (now 12-1 P-C.)
would be reduced after the new capital
is subscribed.
It is the first cash issue for over 40
years, paid capital having advanced from
£75,000 in 1910 to £750,000 in 1934 by
capitalisation of reserves. The figure has
remained steady since, expansion having
been financed out of surplus earnings.
Over the last five post-war years, how-
ever, net premium income has almost
doubled the figure reached at the end
of the preceding 59 years, and is still ex-
panding. As much weight has been put
on abroad as in Australia and New
Zealand, considerable development being
reported from India, Pakistan, Africa
(especially Rhodesia), Malaya, Java and
the Pacific Islands, while branches in
Canada and Britain also contributed to
the growth.
The market for the existing f.-p. pound
shares, which had advanced from £4 15s.
a year ago to £5 11s. at end Sept, last,
shot up to £7 following announcement
of the new issue. After exercising the
rights and allowing for brokerage, the
net cost per share at £7 would be 80s.
6d. when the new shares are fully paid,
or 755. 6d, while they remain called to
10s. each. At net cost returns from a
10 p.c. div. would be 2 p.c. while the
new shares remain paid to 10s. each, or
2.5 p.c. when they are fully paid. Again
on a net cost basis, yields from a 12£ p.c,
distribution would be 2.5 p.c. and 3.1 p.c.
respectively.
What then are the prospects of the co.
earning sufficient to pay firstly 10 p.c.,
and, secondly, 12jr p.c. The practice in
the past has been to pay the dividend, or
all but a small fraction of it, out of the
net return from investments; a policy
which seems likely to be continued in
the future. Last term the net return
from investments was £139,917 (up
£18,032). On a paid capital of £1,125,000
(when the new shares are paid to 10s.
each) 10 p.c. would call for £112,500,
and 12* p.c, for £140,625. So a l2i p.c.
distribution would appear to be within
easy reach for the current term. On
£1,500,000 of capital (when the new shares
are f.-p. to 20s, each) 10 p.c. would call
for £150,000 and 12£ p.c. for £187,500.
Assuming that the net return from in-
vestments continues to expand at the
same rate as last term, then in three years’
time £194,000 would be available from
this source alone. That leaves out of the
reckoning altogether the net surplus from
underwriting.
Here are recent underwriting perform-
ances :
Net Loss Expense
Sept. Premiums. Claims. Expenses.t Rate. Rate.
£ £
1946. 1,041,848 463,208 434,471* 44.4 p.c. 41.7 p.c.
1947. 1,253,003 616,765 446,523* 49.2 „ 35.6 „
1948. 1,524,443 713,832 576,928* 46.8 „ 37.8 „
1949. 1,705,881 829,824 691,039* 48.6 „ 40.5 „
1950. 1,865,334 895,130 763,620* 47.9 „ 40.9 „
* Excludes taxes, etc., on returns from investments.
t Including contributions to staff funds.
Last term’s bigger business (net premiums
increased by £159,453) was written at
only Bs, p.c. more cost, while the moderate
loss experience was 14s. p.c. lighter. The
gross underwriting surplus was £21,566
stronger at £206,584, of which £120,000
(64.3 p.c. of the year’s net premiums)
was reserved for unexpired risks, leaving
the declared net surplus at £86,584. On
the usually-accepted 40 p.c. basis, the
net surplus would be £142,803 (up
£30,360). Add the net return from in-
vestments and the year’s profit was
£282,720, equal to 25.1 p.c. on £1,125,000
of capital.
The solid protection for both policy-
holders and shareholders is in this form:
f 1949 1950 N
p.c. p.c.
Govt, securities,. £2,136,579 38.4 £2,348,125 39.6
Cash, etc. .. 831,840 6.0 411,770 6.9
Shares, etc. .. 576,180 10.4 688,394 11.6
Mortgages .. 648,615 11.7 675,097 11.4
Book debts ~ 840,945 15.1 763,506 12.8
Freeholds .. 1,024,836 18.4 1,049,103 17.7
Total assets .. £5,558,995 100.0 £5,935,995 100.0
Liabilities* .. 2,390,825 2,514,574
Net asset* .. £3,168,670 £3,421,421
* Includes unstated provision for contingencies.
The year’s improvement in the net asset
position was £252,751.
British Standard Machinery Cos., Ltd.
, —Dividends A
Ist Pref. 2nd Pref. Ords. Re-
June, Profit. 7 p.c. 5 p.c. 8 p.c. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Goodwill, patents, etc., written off,
£6500 23,197
From sale of rights, £25,000 .. ~ 48,197
1946.. 16,012 2,100 5,600 56,509
t Premium on shares, £12,500 .. 69,009
Cost of issue of shares, £636 ~ .. 68,374
1947.. 16,119 2,100 205 6,258 75,930
1948.. 26,599 2,100 2,500 13,600 84,330
9 p.c.
1949.. 37,705 2,100 2,500 15,300 102,135
10 p.c.
1950.. 70,683 2,100 2,500 17,000 151,218
This 13-year-old, whose works are at
Alexandria (near Sydney), claims to be
the largest manufacturer of earth-moving
and road-making equipment, etc., in the
Southern Hemisphere, and second in the
world only to the largest U.S. factories.
Foundations of the business were laid in
1924 by W. H. Reardon, now chairman
and managing director, and E. R. Black-
adder, who is also on the board. A
couple of years later the agency for
Cletrac crawler tractors (made in U.S.)
was obtained, and production of dozer,
grader and other tractor-drawn equip-
ment began.
The present co. took over in 1937,
paying £62,152 (including £9200 for good-
will) for the business. At the same time
cable- and hydraulic-controlled dozers
and scrapers were added to the list or
manufactures, which has since widened
in both range and volume, A subsidiary,
Britstand Distributors, Ltd- (paid capital
£150,000), looks after the distribution.
Progress, steady and substantial before
and during the war, has become marked
since, and the co.’s products have won
an export market.
To help finance expansion issues
of 100,000 £1 ords. at a pre-
mium of 2s. 6d. each and of 50,000
£1 5 p.c. prefs. at par were made in
1947. That lifted paid capital to
£250,000, at which figure it remained till
the close of last accounts. The business
has been well-handled and profitable
from the start, the ords. receiving a
steady 8 p.c. for the 11 years to 1948,
followed by 9 p.c. and then 10 p.c. last
term, when less than one-third of the
profit was distributed.
The rapidly-growing demand for heavy-
duty construction equipment on both
public and private account sent turn-
over bounding along during the last few
years, and net earnings responded—they
shot up from £16,119 in 1947 to £70,683
last term, when the improvement was
£32,978. The £70,683, written after
allowing for depreciation (£23,524, up
£15,625) and taxation (£44,150, up
£21,650), was enough to pay the pref.
divs. (£4600) and show 38.8 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 19.4, 12.9, 17.6 and
19.8 p.c. back to 1946.
To carry an extra £211,865 of stocks
and add £24,172 net to the book-value
of fixed assets the co. increased its over-
draft by £132,107 and the amount coming
to creditors, etc., by £51,979 last term:
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250.000
Overdraft .. 150,293 198,095 209,250 841,357
Creditors, etc.* 100,777 123,281 205,528 257,507
Final divs. .. 4,713 9,100 10,800 11,650
Freehold .. 68,691 69,729 82,648 86,985
Plant, etc. ~ 50,916 50,670 59,775 79,610
Shareholdings 55,000 55,000 55,000 55,000
Stocks .. 349,118 414,368 487,596 699,461
Book debts .. 56,345 74,020 92,215 89,681
Cash, etc. .. 1,643 1,019 479 995
* Includes provision for taxation, £46,394 at
June 30, 1950.
After allowing for the final div. there
was 295. 10d. of outside money in the
business for every pound belonging to
shareholders when the books closed ; and
turnover has continued to expand since.
So shareholders have been asked to assist
in easing the position.
Firstly those on the ord, register at
Nov, 1 were rewarded with a one-for-one
bonus-scrip issue (£170,000), made out of
a reserve created by revaluation of fixed
assets. Then, 15 days later, they were
offered 170,000 new £1 ords. at par, one
for two. At the same time the prefs.
were offered 10,000 new £1 ords., also
at par, one for eight. All that will lift
paid capital to £600,000 in 30,000 7 p.c.
and 50,000 5 p.c, cum. prefs. and 520,000
ords., on which the pref. divs. and 10 p.c.
to the ords. would call for £56,600, or
£14,083 less profit than was shown last
term.
Tile ords., which could be had at 365. a
year or so ago, advanced from 70s. at the
end of Sept, to 103 s. a month later and
dropped back to 555. 6d., ex-rights, last
week. The return at 555. 6d. is 3.6 p.c.
on alO p.c. div. basis. Including the new
issues, net tangible cover is 255. lOd.
The prefs. seldom appear on ’Change.
Amalgamated Textiles (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Written off capital, £55,158 .. •• 37,798
1941.. 35,667 9.23 p.c.= 22,063 13,604 51,402
1942.. 23,582 9.23 „ „ 22,064 1,518 52,920
1943.. 28,162 9.23 „ „ 22,063 6,099 59,019
1944.. 19,982 7.69,, „ 18,390 1,592 60,611
Unexplained reduction, £4O .. .. 60,561
1945.. 27,659 9.23 p.c.= 22,069 5,590 66,161
1946.. 80,294 9.23 „ „ 22,069 8,225 74,886
1947.. 48,931 12.3 ~ „ 29,424 19,507 93,893
1948.. 56,641 13.8 ~ „ 33,102 23,539 117,432
1949.. 66,933 15.38,, „ 36,782 30,151 147,583
Special tax provision, £24,500 .. 123,083
1950.. 84,669 15.38p.e.= 36,782 47,887 170.970
This co.’s mills are at Orange, Albury
and Goulburn, which means much so far
as the labor problem is concerned. A


£
&
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST INSURANCE BROKERS
OFFER A FREE ADVISORY SERVICE
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. BW 2131
And all other States
K. 5.23.4
' -
Planned for
ECONOMY
CONVENIENCE
APPEARANCE
DESIGN No. 242
ECONOMY, because a
"Durabestos" Home is
the Lowest in cost to erect" of all types of permanent
homes; CONVENIENCE, because the plan embraces all
of those features desirable for pre‘sent-day comfort,
including a spacious living and sunroom, three bed-
rooms, built-in cupboards, functional kitchen, bathroom
with shower recess, double access lavatory, hallways giv-
ing direct entry to every room; and APPEARANCE,
because of the modern wall, window and roof treat-
ment-all this in a "Durabestos" Home of only 1,185
square feet. Write to WUNDERLICH LIMITED. Box
474, G.P.0., Sydney, for booklet.
T^WunclefUuJv
JURABESTOS
JLJ building sheets
NOTE: Refer to local Hardware Merchants re availa-
bility of "DURABESTOS."
/
/
Write with a nib precisely
suited to your hand . . . write
with a Swan Pen. A Swan is a
pleasure to use, a treasure to
own. At stationers, jewellers and
stores. Nibs to suit every hand.
SWAM
PENS
SWAN
fd
INKS
—BREWED— not merely mixed
Swan Inks in the famous blue-black and 4
brilliant colours are clear, free-flowing and
remarkably permanent ... the finest inks
for any type of pen.
MABIE TODD (aust.) PTY, LTD., SYDNEY
I/129A
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
f
d
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY„ UMITED,
10-1% Parramatta Road,
Camperdowa, Sydney, N.S.W.
The whiskij is_
Ij
I*l
Meeting
an old friend
is always a
pleasurable
occasion ,
/
For extra miles
I
. . . sate miles!
BUY GOODYEAR DELUXE TYRES
THIS SIGN
0 0°
ter.
YEAR
GOOD
W
TYRES
Your Goodyear Dealer knows tyre values—he knows DeLuxe Tyres give
greater mileage and greater safety.
When you know that DeLuxe Tyres are built with a wider, flatter
tread for better road grip ... a stronger cord body . . . huskier
shoulders . . . it's easy to see why you get extra miles safe miles
on Goodyear. See your Goodyear Dealer buy Goodyear for
greater economy and safety.
Two Treads are available: DeLuxe Rib, DeLuxe Att-Weafher
MORE PEOPLE. THE WORLD OVER. RIDE ON
GOODYEAR TYRES THAN ON ANY OTHER HAKE
lot of new plant has been
installed since the war, the older
equipment is in good order and
the worsted cloth and other pro-
ducts turned out have always
met with a good reception on
the market. The co. doesn’t
broadcast its turnover, but the
general experience in the trade
over the last 12 months or more
has been that the money-value
of sales has increased while their
physical volume has shrunk a
little owing to consumer resist-
ance to rising prices. And the
overall lift in costs has out-
weighed the gams from the
money-value of sales.
I he board wrote net profit for
the 12 months to September 30
last £17,736 stronger at a record
£84,669. But that included
£24,500 appropriated at the
previous balance as a special tax
provision in connection with the
price - averaging fund. The
£24,500 (not treated as an ex-
pense in arriving at the 1949
profit) was not needed for the
purpose for which it was ear-
marked, and was written back
to appropriation in the latest
accounts. Disregarding this self-
balancing book entry, last
term’s net earnings were £6764
short of the 1949 figure at
£60,169, That was after allow-
ing £11,364 (up £120) for de-
preciation and £41,815 (up
£8998) for taxation. The
£60,169 was a satisfactory 25.1
p.c. on capital as against 28,
23.6, 20.4, 12.6, 11.5 and 8.3 p.c.
back to 1944. The div. was kept
at 15.38 p.c., making the average
distribution over the last decade
11 p.c. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined)
the £60,169 was equal to 14.6
p.c., which suggests, among
other things, that plant and other
fixed assets are well worth their
book-value.
Movements in balance-sheet
figures mainly reflect the rise in
wool prices and continued
modernisation and strengthening
of plant:
1948. 1949. 1950.
& £ £
Paid capital .. 239,075 239,075 239,075
Overdraft .. 43,216 197,827
Sundry creditors 84,197 60,304 148,113
Tax reserve .. 35,000 63,500 17,500
Final div. .. 22,068 25,747 25,747
Averaging fund 58,849
Freeholds .. 68,770 68,770 77.920
Plant, etc. .. 109,269 110,310 129,732
Stocks.. .. 109,981 292,909 388,223
Book debts . . 109,857 141,886 208,266
Cash, etc. .. 49,895 9B
The year’s net addition to fixed
assets was £28,572, to stocks
£95,314 and to book debts
£61,380. To help meet the outlay
£154,611 was added to the over-
draft and £87,809 to the amount
coming to sundry creditors.
After payment of the final div.
there was 17s. 9d. of outside
money in the business for every
pound belonging to share-
holders.
The outlook is a mixed one.
Employment is at the full, and
there is plenty of money about,
which normally means brisk
business. But the position lacks
stability, because, under such
conditions, increased wages can-
not be geared to increased pro-
duction. The result is a cost-
price inflation. To help take
some of the sting out of this
unhealthy development, which
has been aggravated by the steep
rise in wool prices, locally-
produced woollen yarns are to
be subsidised, and their selling-
price is controlled. This will not
contribute directly to the co.’s
profits, but the coming lift in
the basic-wage will bump up its
costs. Trading results will de-
pend largely upon the extent to
which increased turnover, prob-
ably assisted by a lift in selling-
prices, offsets the growth in
costs.
At 295. 6d. (21s. a year ago)
the co.’s f.-p. 10s. lOd. shares
return 5.6 p.c, on a 15.3 p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 18s. 7d.
The reduction in yardage and
grade of material recently
handled by the Central Victoria
Co.’s Jim Crow dredge, a couple
of miles east of Newstead (Vic.),
was due to the machine passing
over a spur of bedrock. For
the 24 weeks to Sept 12
699,482 c y were handled for
24640 z. fine gold, an average of
1.69 gr. per c.y. * For the three
and a half months to end March
last recoveries averaged 2.78 gr.
Bore average for the area was
2.4 gr. The co.’s f.-p. 10s. shares,
which fetched 31s. early in 1950,
recently sold at 235. 6d.


Down to
The soil of Australia’s Sugar Belt is rich and fertile.
On farms averaging only 50 acres each, 9,000 indepen-
dent farmers grow cane which they sell to a nearby
mill for crushing. Up-to-date farming methods, modem
machinery and specially bred sugar canes result in high
yields and efficient production. Grown, harvested and
milled entirely by white people, Australia’s raw sugar
industry is as efficient as any in the world.
; '% r
:• 4>A
The farmers’ cane is hauled to the nearby mill by
picturesque locomotives. The mill owners provide over
200 such locos, 31,000 trucks and 2,000 miles of light
railways to bring the harvest in each year. (C.S.R. owns
7 of Australia’s 35 raw sugar mills.) Increased efficiency
in the extraction of raw sugar from cane has also done
much to keep costs down and to bring cheap and pure
sugar to the tables of Australian homes.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Draftsmen
American Firm,
THE
SHEFFIELD CORPORATION
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE,
M 82870 or MU8550
Has Expanded Its Operations,
Urgently Require
JUNIOR AND SENIOR
TOOL DRAFTSMEN,
Experienced in Gauges, Tools, Dies,
Jigs and Fixtures.
High salary range, covering all
grades. Overtime available to
15 hours per week.
Also First-class Toolmakers,
Diemakers, and Gaugemakers
Required for Sydney and Launceston
Manufacturing.
It Is Worth Your Time to Phone
or Write to P.O. Box 2726 x, Melb. 0.1,
for Convenient Appointment.
I Dental Science Shews the!
Brushing Teeth Bight Afterdating with
COLGATE
DENTAL CREAM
STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Bolter Than Any Other Way
of Tooth Decay According to Reports
in Authoritative Dental literature!
fd
EVEN MORE IMPORTANT,
THERE WERE NO NEW CAVI-
TIES WHATEVER for more
than 1 out of 3 who used Colgate
Dental Cream correctly! Not even
one new cavity in two full years!
No other dentifrice has proof of
such results! No dentifrice can
stop all tooth decay, or help
cavities already started. But the
Colgate way is the most effective
way yet known to help yonr
dentist prevent decay!
2 YEARS' RESEARCH AT 5
AMERICAS' UNIVERSITIES
—ease histories of hundreds of
people who used Colgate Dental
Cream right after eating—shows
the Colgate way stops tooth decay
best! Better than any other home
method of oral hygiene known!
Yes, both clinical and X-ray
examinations showed the Colgate
way stopped more decay for
more people—than ever before
reported in all dentifrice history!
f
Get more for your money! FAMILY ECONOMY SIZE, DULY 3/3
always use
COLGATE’S TO CLEAN
your breath while;
you CLEAN YOUR
TEETH-AND HELP
STOP TOOTH DECAY!
m
em
No Other Toothpaste or Powder
AMMONIATSD OR NOT
Offers Proof of Such (tosuhsl
D4/160
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Production and Investments
Sydney and Melbourne
wharves were again idle last
week as a result of illegal stop-
pages by the waterside workers,
and great dislocation of the
country’s transport system re-
sulted. Rail transport in Vic-
toria has been held up for
weeks because of another illegal
strike. Coal production, though
there are fewer strikes than
there were last year, is little, if
any, better than the average rate
for the months worked in 1949.
N. S, Wales industry has had
its quota of electric power cut
again, and blackouts are more
frequent than ever. Output of
steel is limping along in step
with the crippled coal-produc-
tion rate.
At the same time a record
flow of migrants are coming into
Australia, Population now ex-
ceeds 8,200,000, and present rate
of intake is approaching 200,000
migrants a year. Little wonder,
in view of the low industrial
rate of production and growing
rate of immigration, that the
housing shortage is getting worse
instead of better. The effect of
the influx of New Australians
may not be noticeable first-hand
to people in certain localities,
but it shows up clearly to all in
general economic trends. With
an increased population super-
imposed on a static or falling
production-rate, scarcities are
bound to occur, especially where
much higher spending-power is
in the hands of the public
generally following a policy of
“full employment” and a sus-
tained rise in the income from
our basic exports.
The total money-supply at the
moment is abundant. Externally
we are earning a large sterling
income, though still sadly short
of dollars. Imports are high,
but we have ample funds with
which to buy from the sterling
area. Supplies of overseas goods,
however, are in many cases
short, English motor-cars have
to be waited for, and it is grow-
ing increasingly difficult to buy
newsprint anywhere regardless
of price. Other raw materials
are in similar case.
Defence requirements are
causing a constriction in the
supply of civilian goods avail-
able in and from many coun-
tries. The effect of defence de-
mands have been most notice-
able to citizens of the United
States, but Australia’s imports
from the U.S.A. have, in any
case, been greatly restricted by
dollar difficulties. Britain has
also turned over its key indus-
tries to defence to an increasing
extent. In Australia it has been
very difficult to do much about
defence production, there being
such a gross shortage of housing
and industrial equipment result-
ing mainly from the causes men-
tioned earlier.
There is much that is far
from well with our economy.
There is an increasing re-
luctance all round to do a
fair day’s work for a fair day’s
pay, and the “Labor” Opposi-
tion in Canberra is encouraging
the rot that is going on at the
hands of the Communist sabo-
teurs and industrial disrupters
of other colors who are always
with us. This “Labor” obstruc-
tion to an honest and sensible
Government plan seems to have
forced the Liberal-C.P. Ministry
into doing things it would avoid
if its hands were free, and to
have prevented it from adopting
certain disciplinary measures
that would reveal their ultimate
benefits to the people only if the
Government is able to imple-
ment its full policy through a
co-operative Senate.
The essential thing needed in
Australia is more production.
Though only recently has this
come to be generally accepted
as the vital ingredient in our
remedy for recovery —such has
been the effect of Keynesian
“All my property —right down to the water's edge”
economics on the world’s
thought for the last 20 years!
—The Bulletin has been in-
sistent on this point for the past
decade. Money without produc-
tion ceases to have much mean-
ing ; and the emphasis in politi-
cal and economic theory for
many years past has been upon
things, monetary. But the Wel-
fare State is falling to the
ground before our eyes through
the lack of one very obvious
thing—production. No economy
or legal system in the world is
designed better to give the wage-
earner the maximum return
from his labor than is the Aus-
tralian ; yet we have this con-
tinued breakdown in output,
mainly in essential things like
coal and steel and in the trans-
port services. Communists see
to that, and Australia is not see-
ing to it that the Communists
are properly dealt with. Chief
obstruction has been the Federal
Parliamentary “Labor” party.
There are many investments
on the Stock Exchanges which
would have attractive prospects
if production were at a reason-
able level. Since investors re-
' ceive only a small proportion of
the benefits emerging from a
truly prosperous economy,
really good incomes flowing to
investors would mean good in-
comes for the majority of the
working community. As it is,
yields to investors are very low,
even where shares were bought
at lower than present prices and
have been held for a consider-
able period.
While it is difficult to see how
otherwise to gain some protec-
tion from the ever-increasing
I
forces of inflation, at present
there is an excess of investment
funds that has forced many
share prices up to speculative
levels. And while the valuation
of plant in the books of many
concerns was, a few years back,
conservative according to pre-
sent-day values, much of that
plant is inevitably wearing out
without full allowance for its re-
placement being granted by the
Taxation Commissioner. When
the time does come for replace-
ments, funds in many cases will
be inadequate, and more capital
will be required in order to
maintain the same plant
capacity. That is where many
new capital issues should be
watched closely by investors.
Unless the size of the business is
actually being increased there
may be difficulty in maintaining
earnings on an enlarged capital.
Australia is certainly taking a
kicking from the forces of Com-
munism, and so far it is taking
it lying down.
Qantas Wentworth Holdings,
Ltd., will have a paid capital of
£285,000 when the 125,000 %
p.c. preferred A ords. are
allotted. The co. aims to ac-
quire the 50,000 £1 ord. shares
in the Wentworth Hotel, Ltd.,
Sydney, at £5 10s. a share. From
C. D. Maclurcan and his col-
leagues 34,198 shares have
already been purchased. If all
the shares are acquired total cost
will be £275,000, and the re-
maining £lO,OOO of capital will
be used to meet brokerage and
preliminary expenses. Last
year’s adjusted net profits of the
Wentworth were £19,203, equal
to 6.7 p.c. on the proposed capi-
tal of the new co. Qantas
affiliation should help future
earnings.
* ♦ * *
Since its purchase of the
Sydney “Smith’s Weekly” build-
ing and other assets, there has
been speculation as to what
additional acquisitions Main-
guard (Aust.), Ltd., has made.
In the prospectus it was stated
that “a large part of the issue to
which this prospectus refers —
namely, 2,400,000 shares —has
been applied for by the directors
and their associates, who have
lodged firm applications for
them.” The prospectus also
said: “No shares or debentures
have been issued or agreed to
be issued as fully or partly paid
up otherwise than in cash or for
consideration other than cash.”
The co. has raised a million for
investment and other purposes,
and seems to be off to a flying
start. The ss. shares are active
at 7s. on the market. They are
already fully listed in Sydney.


Its the worlds
most wonderful
Lamp
' * L
m ms
I
W
M
BRIGHT, STEADY WHITE LIGHT
75 candle power without pumping,
smoke or odour! The Aladdin non-
pressure kerosene mantle lamp
gives you good lighting for every
room in thb home. Complete
range of lamps available now
from your Aladdin dealer.
QUICK COOKING—
for home or holiday —Use it at
home as a compact, quick-cooking
table stove—or outdoors for easy
camp cooking. Pressure-kerosene
operation gives string Game—
adjustable to any heat. Self-prick-
ing burners for trouble-free' use.
Metal carrying case (optional)
servos as windshield outdoors.
STORMPROOF
LANT
Turns Nlgbi
Into Day I
m
Built tile a battleship for years
and years of rugged service.
Floods area with brilliant 300
candle power white light. Self-
priclcing, rustless, easy to light,
withstands rain. wind and storm
conditions., <
THERE ARE AUTHORISED ALADDIN
DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL CITIES,
SUBURBS AND COUNTRY TOWNS
THROUGHOUT THE COMMON-
.WEALTH. *
Alad dm
KEROSENE APPLIANCES
ALADDIN INDUSTRIES Pty. Ltd
BOURKE ST.. WATERLOO N S W.
63/M1.15
SURFERS PARADISE
£12,000, magnificent, freehold,
semi-tropical island property. 10
acres, including built-up causeway
to centre town. 3 bedroom
modem home, elect., septic, frig.:
also 2 bedroom home. Land
cleared and subdivided, 33 allot-
ments all with river frontages,
allowing 2 acres for main home,
river frontage. Unparalleled
opportunity for gilt edged invest-
ment in ideal surroundings.
Apply: WILLMORE & RAN-
DELL, Estate Agents, Welsh
Street, SOUTHPORT. Phones,
Southport 895 U or Surfers 58.
BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 30th SEPTEMBER, 1950
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash, at Bankers £25,226,600
Treasury Bills Australian 12,000,000
Government Securities Australian, New
Zealand and Fijian 36,130,190
Due by other banks . .-. .. 11,454,992
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit 46,056,047
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank
of Australia 131,470,000
Statutory Deposit with Reserve Bank of
New Zealand .. .. 2,065,567
264,403,396
Loans and Advances to Customers .. 130,211,874
Bank Premises 4,300,000
All other Assets 2,000
398,917,270
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit, Guarantees, etc., as
per contra 21,516,447
£420,433,717
LIABILITIES
Notes in Circulation £80,962
Deposits, Accrued Interest, Rebate, Bills
Payable and other Liabilities, including
Reserves held for Doubtful Debts and
other Contingencies 383,089,045
383,170,007
Paid-up Capital 8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 6,150,000
Profit and Loss £1,344,063
less Interim Dividends to
30th June, 1950 526,800
817,263
398,917,270
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits, Guarantees, etc., as
per contra 21,516,447
£420,433,717
Net Profit for Year ended SOth September ,
1950 . £847,790
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED I« I 7
DIRECTORS
MARTIN MctLRATH, Esq., President.
The Hon. C. A. SINCLAIR
JOHN CADWALLADER, Esq.
Sir LESLIE MORSHEAD,
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.C., D.S.O.
R. C. WILSON, Esq. m.l.c.
D. B. LEWINGTON, Esq.
S. G. ROWE, Esq., d.s.o.
General Manager —S. J. GANDON
Assistant General, Manager —H. C. C. MARSHALL
Senior Chief Inspector —C. L. HALL
Chief Inspectors —
R. J. ABERCROMBIE, A. STEWART-RICHARDSON
(tWCOHPOBATBD IN NHW SOUTH WAf.FS WITH LIMITBP LIABILITY)
Asoaro
df
CITY OF MEN
GAVIN S. CASEY
This latest novel by one of Australia’s best-
known writers chronicles four decades in
the history of a West Australian family whose
fortunes are inextricably entangled with the
goldfields.
Australian Retail Price 12s. 3d.
PETER DAVIES LTD.
DIAMOND
INDUSTRY
Technical Manager and Business
Manager of one of the largest
diamond cutting firms in Amster-
dam (Holland) wishing to set up a
similar industry in New Zealand
invites enquiries from individuals
or firms willing to finance. A
Representative will be arriving in
New Zealand on December 15th.
Letters to be addressed to the
Secretary of the Canterbury Cen-
tennial, New Zealand, marked
“For the attention of the Manager
of the Dutch Athletes.”
d
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Hi i s
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
machines at only d trac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
Built tnlitrlj in 4u.ntabu fcr
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Jisttibuttag Agent* —
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
I-EBTH
W. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd
, Norman Bros. Ply. Ltd.
. Vardon & Sons Ltd
Docket Book Co. (Anst.)
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
It is a pity that a social prob-
lem so urgent and distressing as
housing should have become an
issue of party politics, with rather
more talk and temper than firm
promises of homes. The recent
Commons debate has done little
to raise the hopes of the tens of
thousands of engaged couples
who seek to avoid living with in-
laws, of frustrated married
couples who can’t do otherwise,
or of once house-proud parents
who are wearily resigned to
bringing up families in damp
basements.
Nevertheless, besides estab-
lishing that a grave housing
shortage is, in fact, known to
exist, the debate has also brought
fresh air to the new House of
Commons. Politically, the initia-
tive has passed to the Opposi-
tion, for here is a certain
electioneering point: Conserva-
tive speakers will claim that their
party can build houses at the
rate of 300,000 a year, while the
Socialists will have to defend
the present figure of 200,000 as
a maximum.
In the manner in which they
conducted the debate the Con-
servatives also answered, by
performance, many of their
recent critics. They have lately
been accused of half-heartedness
in Opposition and of having an
ageing and too - static front-
bench ; Mr. Churchill’s Parlia-
mentary stature, it has been
argued, is not always an asset,
for it can dwarf the inexperi-
enced into timidity. These
criticisms were all exploded in
the one debate. Mr. Attlee, hav-
ing previously announced that
Mr, Bevan would “wipe the
floor” with Mr, Churchill, must
be disconcerted to realise that
his all-terrible Minister of Health
quite failed to overawe a mere
backbencher, 43-year-old Mr.
Marples, who, as a working
building contractor, put the case
for the Opposition from the
front bench,
Mr. Sevan’s much-boosted
debating ability and imprecatory
fire, so far from being weapons
in his armory, now seem to be
vulnerable weaknesses in his
defence. For all his considerable
outside following, he must be a
weighty liability to his party.
He believes that attack is the
best —and only—form of defence.
So does a bull. Mr. Marples,
deft as any toreador, let him ex-
pend his passion and played him
effortlessly without suffering so
much as a scratch.
There’s no doubt that the
Conservatives have the measure
of the Labor-party firebrand.
Perhaps they’ve realised that it
pays to egg him on. Every
Bevaniac utterance is worth, to
them, an army of Tory can-
vassers.
What remains of Liberal
representation has also suffered
from exposure. The nine mem-
bers cannot agree among them-
selves upon which lobby to favor
at division-time; and three of
them abstained from voting upon
a motion to which they had pre-
viously given their support. A
two-party election seems in-
evitable.
Calculated Mischief
A Chatham House study
group, consisting of some of the
best brains in the Services and
the Foreign Office, has compiled
a report, “Defence in the Cold
War,” which has as one of its
objects the purpose of present-
ing a full picture of Stalinism in
the world of today so that the
average man and woman can be
helped to face the facts realisti-
cally.
It is the opinion of the group
that the main danger confront-
ing the civilised world is not the
outbreak of a world-war, but the
continuance of the “cold” war,
a definition of which reads:
“The policy of making mischief
by all methods short of war —
that is to say, short of war in-
volving the Soviet Union in open
hostilities,” Danger-points are
Germany, Persia and South
China. Strong armed forces are
held to be necessary, especially
in Germany.
The group believe that Stalin
is unlikely to imitate Hitler,
either in making ranting speeches
at weekends or in building up a
Wehrmacht and then lopping
off country after country. “The
Communists see —as their propa-
ganda shows —that the weakness
of the Western world lies in its
tendency to sit back and ask to
be left alone to enjoy the poli-
tical and industrial power that
its past efforts have won for it.”
So that, for the next four to
five years, the Soviet is expected
to restrict itself to “all mischief
short of war” (and, of course,
civil war provoked by itself) in
the hope that the free nations
won’t trouble adequately to
resist “cold”-war methods and
will ultimately become so debili-
tated as to be either impotent or
frightened.
For the Western nations,
“ it is not specifically a
choice between weapons and
food ; nor is it a choice between
aggressive Imperialism and the
Welfare State. It is rather a
choice between devoting the
years ahead to preventing war
and then getting higher standards
of living, or of enjoying higher
standards of living before war
comes and then losing them all,
and this time without hope of
recovery.”
The group feel that there is a
distinct lack of definition about
Commonwealth policy for the
Middle East, and stress the
special dangers in Asia, especi-
ally the “ragged line” of defence.
Operations such as the Com-
monwealth plan of economic
assistance to underdeveloped
countries “have an important
part to play in the struggle of
ideas, but not the decisive part.”
A more important contribution
to this struggle is “the single-
minded toughness of the Com-
munist-party’s leaders and
servants, both when they are
working for power and when
they have won it.”
What the report has to say
about Communist technique and
practice is enough to make the
unaware fireside reader sit up
with a jerk, whether it be the
quick conquest of the youth of
Eastern Germany, the strike-
weapon, or the acute sense of
timing in what may seem, else-
where, unlikely places: “Its
[the Cominform’s] organisation
is good enough and its touch
sure enough to ensure that a
ban on shipments to Korea by
the Seamen’s Union in Australian
ports should follow immediately
their Government’s decision to
send forces to Korea and
Malaya, and that delays in the
loading of French ships for Indo-
china should coincide with a
new offensive by Viet-minh.”
The report concludes: “The
free world has, in its own way,
to decide what semi-war footing
it can afford and then to achieve
and maintain it by years of
steady effort. The prospect is
not a pleasant one, but it is
preferable to world war —and
far cheaper,”
Peace, Perfect Peace—
Now the comrades have gone
home. Sheffield, the intended
seat of war, is not without re-
grets that they got no further
than the drawbridge, for it was
all set to send them to Coventry.


Women's Letters
rrom Melbourne
From the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks,
comes this message: “I heartily commend
the wish by the Returned Sailors, Soldiers
and Airmen’s League of Australia to send
comforts to our fighting men in Korea
and Malaya. The Australian people have
earned a reputation for always showing
tangible evidence of their personal in-
terest and pride in the men and women-
folk who are fighting for them. Both in
Korea and Malaya conditions of climate
and terrain must be exacting for our
troops and so, with the arrival of Christ-
mas and thoughts of home and family, it
is my earnest hope that this appeal for
funds will receive from the people of
Victoria that wholehearted response
which it deserves. Let us make sure that
every member of our fighting forces re-
ceives our gratitude in the form of a
worth-while individual Christmas gift.”
Statistics were on the side of the
Speaker of the Legislative Assembly,
Archie Michaelis, when he and his wife
held their garden-party at Parliament
House, For 75 years no rain had fallen
on November 22, and so that day was
chosen. The lawns were a vivid green in
the brilliant sunshine, a soft breeze
rustled through the oaks and elms, which
were in full leaf, the flower-beds were at
their best —in short, conditions were just
perfect for such an occasion, including
the frocking. Mrs. Michaelis wore a navy
frock with a trimming of white across
the front of the bodice, and a wide-
brimmed white straw hat finished with
navy taffeta bows. Her daughters helped
receive the guests: Mrs. Alan Marks’s
black pleated chiffons had a natural straw
hat trimmed with black grosgrain for
company. Mrs. Alan Saleck’s navy frock
was embroidered in eyelets; her white
straw hat had matching ribbon trimming.
The National Anthem marked the
arrival of the Governor, his wife and
daughter. Lady Brooks wore a grey
chiffon frock patterned in gay flowers and
a wide-brimmed white straw hat, Jean-
ette Brooks’s ninon frock was patterned
in hyacinth-blue and white flowers ; her
wide-brimmed white straw hat was
finished at one side with a drape. Mrs.
T. T. Hollway topped her navy-and-
white-patterned silk frock with a white
hat, draped to one side and finished
with upstanding feathers. Mrs. John
Cain’s jacket and matching frock were
in shades of pastel-green, grey and red ;
her wide black hat was banded and edged
with velvet. The Mayoress, Mrs, J. S.
Disney, wore a suit of black and gold
finely-striped faille and a hat of black
straw. Mrs. Harold Holt contrasted the
white-spotted dove-grey of her silk frock
with a wide coolie hat of tangerine straw.
Florals were chosen by Lady Martin with
a picture-hat of black grosgrain and
straw. Lady Knox, wife of Sir George
Knox, a former Speaker, added a natural
straw bonnet to her jacket-suit of apple-
leaf-green crepe. Mrs. Gordon Coulter
and Mrs. Alan Michaelis wore the navy
ensemble. Mrs. Trevor Oldham’s slim-
fitting frock was of grey wool crepe.
When Tim, only daughter of Mrs. John
Scott, of Eildon, Lismore (N.S.W.), and
the late Brigadier G. A. Street, was
married at Toorak Presbyterian Church
she wore cream silk faille cut on classical
lines, the skirt of unpressed pleats falling
into a slight train. Mrs. R. A. D. Hood,
of Hexham, lent the coronet of orange-
blossom which held in place the full-
length cream tulle veil. Cream roses
formed the bridal bouquet. Bardi and
Rosemary Grimwade, of Lismore, and
Jill Manifold, of Mortlake, were brides-
maids. Their white-figured organdie
gowns had underskirts of gold taffeta
and were made on crinoline lines. The
bodices were tucked and had U-shaped
necklines, and they wore matching cloches
with clusters of frangipani at the back
to match the flowers in their bouquets.
The bridegroom, Harold Macgregor, only
son of Mr. and Mrs. J. G. Gillespie, of
Caulfield, had Alan Lee, of Lismore, as
best man, whilst the bride’s brother,
Anthony Street, and William Meyer were
groomsmen. Reception was held at Gros-
venor, Toorak.
Maybe Parliament could take in hand
the overdue job of fixing an arbitrary date
for the Christmas “season” to begin. The
men and women hired to grapple with the
rejoicings have decided that it should be-
gin earlier with every passing year. In
all the shops Father Christmas is already
booking orders ; in one large emporium
the strains of Christmas carols are heard
from opening- to closing-time. Invita-
tions for Christmas parties are also show-
ing a desire to beat the gun. Earliest is
on December 2.
The Australian-American Association
celebrated Thanksgiving Day by giving
Prime Minister R. G. Menzies a compli-
mentary luncheon in the lower Town
Hall, The atmosphere of this traditional
festival was captured by the decorations
in the foyer; large china roosters and
hens sat atop sheaves of golden wheat,
while at the base of the sheaves were
massed pumpkins and marrows. There
were even real eggs scattered among the
wheat. Golden replicas of the American
eagle hung on the walls, backed by red,
white and blue ribands, and on the
luncheon-tables silver stars were scattered
over the centres of red, white and blue
paper. Mesdames R. G. Casey, Rupert
Downes and Harold Bettle, with other
members of the women’s group of the
association, helped to receive guests. Mrs.
Menzies contrasted her natty blue suit
with a raspberry-velvet cap finished with
ospreys. Also at the official table were
Mrs. S. J. Fletcher, wife of the U.S,
Consul-General, in black suit and small
beige straw hat, and Mrs. Harold Holt,
in dove-grey and small white pill-box
hat. Lady Herring’s ensemble was black.
Mrs. J. A. Collins added a small black
hat to her black suit. Mrs. George Jones
contrasted her black with a flower-
wreathed natural straw hat.
When Peter Randall, in conjunction
with the Council of Adult Education,
took his production of “Young Wives’
Tales” on tour, the mayor of a large
Victorian inland country town strongly
denounced it. That was much ado about
little; it is thin on comedy and wit. June
Brunei, Valerie Keast and Elizabeth Gib-
son, who appeared in the production at
the Princess, did their best with the
material at their disposal. In the audi-
ence were Mrs. Dick Noone, who matched
her dove-grey satin gown with a stole
star-dusted with sequins; Mrs. W. O.
Winter Irving, her tangerine chiffons
heavily sequinned at the rounded
neckline; Joan Ross, in a crinoline
frock of black-and-white-striped satin;
Olga Rowe, her choice filmy pastel-
pink tulle and black velvet; Margot
Cornaga, her ballerina frock of pale-
lilac moire; Elsa Breese, in black
velvet; and Dorothy O’Keefe, her
slim-fitting gown of black velvet hav-
ing an off-the-shoulder bodice outlined
in white guipure lace.
Anne Hawthorne, a past student of the
Methodist Ladies’ College and now in her
first year at the University Conserva-
torium Drama School, will play the part
of Hedwig, in the Drama Group’s pro-
duction of Henrik Ibsen’s “Wild Duck,”
which is to be presented in the Tallis
Theatre of the Conservatorium from
December 1 to December 6. Music is
Anne’s other big enthusiasm. Picture by
Morton Photography.
For the Royal Australian Artillery
Officers’ Ball at St. Kilda Town Hall,
there were searchlights and field-,
medium- and ack-ack-guns; the artillery
colors, red and blue, were used extensively
in the decorations. Flowers grouped
around the hall and on the supper-tables
were in the same tonings. Col. W. H.
Hall, president of the ball committee, re-
ceived official guests with Mrs, Hall,
who highlighted her bouffant black satin
gown with a scarlet tulle stole. Their
daughter Anne topped her pale-primrose
tulle skirt with a bodice of black velvet.
Mrs. S. F. Rowell, wife of the Chief of
the General Staff, added a jacket glittering
with midnight-blue sequins to her deep-
blue crepe gown. Mrs. A. J. Boase had
jet beads massed on the bodice of her
slim back gown. Mrs. W. S. Scrivenor’s
black tulle had pink opalescent beads on
bodice and skirt.
From Sydney
Accustomed as one is to viewing
bishops one at a time, and mostly at a
distance, it was rather overwhelming to
attend the Governor’s reception to the
Archbishop of Canterbury and Mrs.
Fisher, where there were six archbishops,
34 bishops, numerous archdeacons,
dozens of deans and countless rectors.
The assembly was very colorful, but it
was the purple of the bishops’ robes that
made it so, not the dressing of the women,
who were somewhat overshadowed.
However, Mrs. Robin, wife of the Bishop
of Adelaide, commanded attention in
rose-colored waterwave taffeta, Mrs.
Babbage wore a beautiful Indian em-
broidered scarf in red with her black
dress, Mrs. Norman Jenkyn’s midnight-
blue crepe had a lovely paisley top, and
Mrs. Wilfrid Henn, a visitor from Perth,
wore an attractive crystal-embroidered
tunic in asparagus-green with a slim black
skirt. Although most of the archbishops
wore full ecclesiastical dress (plum-
colored coat, apron, gaiters), many of the
bishops wore cassocks in a redder,
brighter purple. The keen-eyed Bishop of
Singapore wore white collar-tabs like a
barrister’s with his cassock, but we were
too awed to ask him what they signified.
The Moderator-General of the Presby-
terian Assembly was notable in black
with a pale-blue stock and lace ruffles at
neck and cuffs. The Archbishop of Can-
terbury and Mrs. Fisher looked as strong,
smiling, gracious and intelligent as when
they first arrived in Sydney.
Women crowded the Town Hall last
Wednesday to hear Mrs. Fisher speak at
the rally organised by the Mothers’
Union of the Diocese of Sydney. The
stage was beautifully decorated with
flowers, mostly in blue and yellow to
harmonise with the banners from the
various unions and the headgear of the
members of the Mothers’ Union choir,
who sang the anthem “Praise and
Thanksgiving.” Mrs. Mowll welcomed
Mrs. Fisher, and in her formal introduc-
tion told the audience that Mrs. Fisher
was the ninth child in a family of 14 and
that her father had been a master at
Repton, the Great Public School of
which Dr. Fisher was formerly head-
master.
Mrs. Fisher gave an inspiring address,
saying that the mother held the most in-
fluential position in the whole of human
life, and that the aim of the Mothers’
Union was to awaken ail to a sense of
responsibility in training children in the
Christian faith. She said there should be
more co-operation between husband and
wife in bringing up the children ; men
should accept more responsibility in the
home and women should take more in-
terest in the ordering of outside affairs,
from the United Nations to the local
councils. Public education had taken
great areas of responsibility from the
parents, some children going to school
when they were only two and a half years
old. The lack of interest in public affairs
had led the German nation to an intoler-
able situation, where the mothers had
little say in what the children did, so that
some even became spies on their own
families. In a gentler way rights and
responsibilities were being taken from us,
and the way to offset this tendency was
for mothers to use their minds as well as
their hearts and strength and souls in
bringing up their children. She con-
cluded with the words of the founder
of the Mothers’ Union: “Think of the
things you can do where you are and do
it now.”
It seems a pity, after all the time we
spent planning summer wardrobes at the
spring fashion-shows, that all we had to
do to be well-dressed was to buy a new
raincoat and a classy umbrella.
The gathering of the Kits Groups at
the University on Saturday was a revela-
tion in how to learn all sorts of things
without tears. “Kits” are a form of
education introduced by the Department
of Tutorial Classes in 1946, and there are
now 70 groups using them in N.S.W.
Their main attraction is that activity is
part of all learning. To appreciate music,
the groups learn to play the recorder (be-
cause it is the easiest instrument), in art
everyone takes up a brush and tries his
hand at painting a picture, in home-
making all give their ideas on arranging
furniture in a room, the players make
up little plays and act them, etc. At the
demonstration, on Saturday everyone
seemed to be having great fun while they
imbibed knowledge and learned how to
direct and take part in “Kit” education.
The learners came from all over N.S.W.,
and were directed by the tutors of the
University Department. Any group of five
or more can obtain these kits for study
within any sort of community. The
person to apply to is the Secretary of
Kits, Department of Tutorial Classes,
University of Sydney.
Everyone was happy at the annual
meeting of the Sydney Symphony Orch-
estral Committee, arranged by r Mrs. Hope
Gibson and chaired by the president.
Lady Anderson. The report showed a
bright state of affairs, and plans for
the future as outlined by A.B.C.’s
general-manager Charles Moses look
very attractive. The children’s con-
certs are to be increased to three series,
which is the best means possible of
fostering an Australian love of music.
Marjorie Lawrence is to be one of the
artists at the Jubilee celebrations, both
by her own request and the commission’s
desire. Violinist Beryl Kimber is another
to return to her homeland next year. It
would have been nice to have Eileen
Joyce and Joan Hammond, also, but their
other engagements prevented it. Still, it
is gratifying to know that there are so
many Australian women top-liners in the
world of music today. At the meeting a
suggestion was put forward that sub-
scribers who could not use their tickets
for the concerts should be able to send
them in for resale to a special bureau,
the proceeds to go to the Musicians’
Benevolent Fund. Charles Moses said
that he thought the idea good and that
the commission would probably act
upon it.
Anne McCauley, whose papa is Air-
Vice-Marshal McCauley, is president of
the young and glamorous committee
which is organising the Golden Ball. To
be held at the A.C.I. ballroom on
December 9 in aid of the T.B. Soldiers,
Sailors arid Airmen’s Association, this
party is offering something extra-special
in the way of decorations and features.
“Pirate Gold” is the theme, with the
orchestral platform done up as a South
Sea island with treasure-chests, pieces of
eight, palm-trees and the rest. There will
also be a goldmine where you can dig
your own nugget (all sorts of presents
wrapped up in gold paper). The decora-
tions will be gold flowers and balloons.
Mrs. John Rischbielh, of Double Bay,
issues the tickets for the sum of one (not
necessarily golden) guinea. Norton
Trevaire photograph.
Thanksgiving Day (November 22) was
celebrated with fetes and dinners and
parties by the American community in
Sydney. Tom Alexander, head of the
United States Information Service here,
was guest of honor at the English-Speak-
ing Union, and provided the information
that Thanksgiving was held in memory of
one of the first treaties signed between
the Indians and the Pilgrim Fathers in
1621. Apparently more Indians came to
the signing than the Pilgrims expected,
so that feeding the visitors had them
worried. But the Indians solved the prob-
lem by bringing in quantities of wild-
fowl, from which a great feast was pre-
pared. Hence the traditional Thanks-
giving turkey. The religious side of the
celebration is to give thanks for the
bounties of the earth. It is suitably held
in America today, where a factory-
worker has to toil only nine minutes to
earn a quart of milk and three days to
earn a month’s rent. After 34 minutes
he has earned enough to buy himself a
dozen eggs. Mr. Alexander indicated
that America wanted similar reasons for
Thanksgiving to be extended to all
nations of the world
Santa Claus and Christmas-trees in
the retail stores are livening up the town
a bit. The array of dolls in many of the
shops looks like a league of nations ;
Rumanian, Hungarian, Dutch, Italian and
French dolls dressed in national costume
are enchanting, the best being the French
ones from Brittany. Long ago the Ger-
man doll was the most desired; today
there are so many others that they are
not missed. It’s just as well that Christ-
mas reminders come so early from the
stores. Otherwise we wouldn’t have time
to pay off the high-priced gifts we’ll have
to give this year. There just don’t seem
to be any really cheap ones.


fd
when »»* J|<W *
In every field one performer outstays all others in stamina and
In batteries, it has been Exide —since 1888.
r\
L
EPX.2S
£xibe
PLANTE
HOME-LIGHTING BATTERIES
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
rty., ltd.,
44 BRIDGE ST.,
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Andrew offers another battle-
wise officer to boss our naval air-station
at Nowra (N.S.W.)—Captain G. H.
Beale, D.S.O. Lately Deputy-Director of
Air Warfare at the Admiralty, Beale was
studying this science in carrier Ark
Royal in the South Atlantic when Hitler
started; Beale graduated with honors
aboard the illustrious Illustrious in the
Mediterranean-Malta nastiness. Some
good work on Crete’s defences brought
his D.S.O. and four years’ p.-0.-w. time,
beginning at Maleme in 1941. Seaman
as well as airman, he was a post-war
boss of the 3rd Escort Flotilla,
“Hamfat”: Australians figure largely
in film-making in Hollywood and Eng-
land ; now Perth-born Robert Krasker has
secured the annual vote of American
film-critics as the “Best Camera-
man of the Year.” Krasker, whose
father was a pearler, got to Paris
as an art student 20 years ago at 17, and,
for the benefit of his pocket, secured a
job with the Paris Paramount studios,
quickly made a reputation, was taken up
by the English Alexander Korda pro-
ductions, and in his early twenties was in
complete charge of photography for lead-
ing English studios. Without knowing
that he was a compatriot Australian
audiences have seen his work in pictures
like “Henry V,” “Odd Man Out,” “Caesar
and Cleopatra” and “Brief Encounter”:
it was his great job in “The Third Man”
which got him the film-critics’ vote.
Thomas Wood, of , Cobbers, has
reached the end of the chapter in Essex
(Eng.). Adept musician and composer
as well, he camouflaged with a quiet
manner a most penetrating observation,
and an intense, constant and somewhat
wondering interest in the “fellers of
Australia, blokes and coves and coots.”
He was 57.
The 1951 Commonwealth jubilee con-
cert season will bring a lot of Australians
back to their own country under the
auspices of the A.8.C., among them
Marjorie Lawrence, Richard Farrell (the
23-year-old Sydney pianist, who has got
into the first flight of concert-players in
the U.S.), Beryl Kimber (the young
Tassie violinist who is making a career
for herself in England) and aboriginal
tenor Harold Blair. Among conductors
there will be Sir John Barbirolli, of the
Halle Orchestra, and Otto Klemperer and
Alceo Galliera, whose names were
bandied about during their last visit as
possible conductors of the State-subsidised
Victorian Symphony Orchestra. The
famous South American fiddler, Ricardo
Odnoposoff, and the singing parson,
Sydney Mac Ewan, are also coming ; those
who like bands will be catered for by
Colonel Adkins, best-known of British
Army band-conductors.
“Macnell” on a missionary:
Outshone by the light of a more eminent
visiting cleric, Anglican Canon Bodger slipped
unnoticed through Sydney last week, England-
bound. Built like a Rugby forward, silver-
haired, with eyes of agate-grey and a man’s
hand-grip, he runs at Dogura, on the n.-e.
New Guinea coast, one of the most successful
missions in the Pacific. It boasts an airstrip
(which several Allied pilots were thankful to
use), lawny playing-fields and a huge landmark
of a cathedral longer than Sydney’s St.
Andrew’s, built by mission natives to the design
of a beachcombing Scotch architect. Tire boys
cut and lumped its grey stone from a near-by
quarry, labored free of charge and donated
£lOOO of the cathedral’s cost. Draped in colorful
folds over its altar of polished New Guinea
hardwood hang four flags—given by the
R.A.N., A.1.F., R.A.A.F. and General
MacArthur for the stout work Dogura did in
rescuing wounded soldiers and shot-down air-
men. MacArthur thought highly enough of
the Canon to give him an Open-Sesame letter of
authority to anywhere in the Pacific, and to lots
of other places besides. Using it to the full,
Canon Bodger travelled 60,000 miles through the
Pacific, Canada, America and the U.K., making
20,000 dollars in lecture-fees for his mission.
Dressed usually in shorts, shirt and sandshoes,
he believes cleanliness very specially comes next
to Godliness in New Guinea. To stress his
point he caught the dirtiest fly he could find,
and showed its legs to his boys under a
microscope. He’s had no sanitary worries since.
Joining the National Bank’s N.S.W.
board of advice, Allen Charles Lewis,
years ago nicknamed by The Bulletin
“Concrete,” and head of one of the
Empire’s greatest cement industries. Boss
of Concrete Constructions, Ltd., born in
England, his travels have taken in pretty
well all Australia, many miles of them on
roads built by his own company. The
ten-storey Prudential building in Welling-
ton (MX.) wears the Lewis trade-mark,
as well as lofty edifices throughout South
Africa. In War II he was business
manager for the Army. When not build-
ing he is hard at work trying to knock
down his golf score, mainly at Royal
Sydney.
After the unveiling of the equestrian
statue of General Monash near the
Shrine of Remembrance in Mel-
bourne John D. Jess went to see it,
one reason being that he is the son of
General Monash’s General Staff Officer,
the late Lieut-General Sir Carl Jess. John
instantly noted that the General had his
sword-guard facing the wrong way.
Sculptor Leslie Bowles claims the mistake
was made in the casting, not in the
original model. Jess possibly inherits
his quickness of perception from his
father, who, as well as soldiering on
Gallipoli and in France —he was one of
the youngest brigadier-generals on service
—did a lot of sketching and had been
engaged on historical research into Aus-
tralian military forces for many years. His
collection of 150 watercolor sketches was
acquired by the Canberra War Memorial.
Sketched here by service-mate Elmslie,
Lt.-Cdr. lan Cartwright, one-time pilot
of Australian destroyer Vampire, and
participant in the violent events of that
termagant’s life. The artist has captured
the grin which is the hallmark
of a destroyer - man —it betokens
tolerance, understanding and casual
efficiency, and stems from an assured
confidence in the owner’s seaman-
ship ability. When War II laid
flat the guard-rails of the ready British
Fleet, Cartwright was in R.N. destroyer
Grafton; he left her shortly before a
German motor-torpedo-boat opened her
bilges at Dunkirk. That year he shifted
to Vampire, and navigated her through
the bombs, torpedoes, minefields and
PILOT.
ordinary sea hazards of the Medi-
terranean, Malaya and Java, until the
valiant little sea-fighter caught hers with
carrier Hermes in the Bay of Bengal.
Remaining in destroyers, he had a year in
Arunta, then crossed as first-lieutenant to
Nepal (in which the sea-sequences of
Coward’s “In Which We Serve” were
filmed). In this modern 4.7-incher he went
up through Burma and the East Indies to
Japan for the signing. Thirty, 6ft.-odd,
hailing from Toorak (Vic.), he is the new
captain of Labuan of the Antarctic,
The Bulletin met his Grace the Most
Reverend and Right Honorable his Lord-
ship Archbishop of Canterbury and
found him most eminently human. Small,
but elevated to significance by the lofty
lift of a genial eyebrow, a puckish smile
growing from his lips up, and a high-
capacity brow. Dr. Fisher is younger
brother of the Bishop of Natal, and is 99th
Primate. His voice is vibrant, like a
PRIMATE.
deep-toned bugle. On his six-weeks’ tour
of Australia he has discovered unexpected
things about his constitution, as well as
many men who don’t bother about
church-going, but who, of course, “are
all for the Christian way of life.” To
which Dr. Fisher quips: “I love cricket.
I haven’t seen a big match for 30 years;
I never bother to read the scores. But—
I’m all for cricket!” Present scribe will
remember this impression—surrounded by
disciplined stocks and august gaiters, the
holder of the Church of England’s highest
post, speech-listening, almost drab beside
the resplendency of Mayoral white-and-
gold, leaning far back with finger under
chin gazing to heaven or the ceiling, his
glasses pushed delightfully up on his
forehead.
A figure that won’t be seen any longer
plodding in and out of Melbourne
cinemas, morning, afternoon and evening,
is that of Erie Cox, “The Chiel” to thou-
sands of filmgoers who accepted his
weekly broadcasts in the “Age” as gospel.
For years before his death the other
day at 77 he hardly missed a
picture, good, bad and indifferent, and he
resolutely saw them right through. Pre-
viously dramatic critic of the “Argus”
and “Australasian,” and the author of
three novels, he curiously did not start
his picture-going till he’d reached an age
when most people give them up. His first
novel. Out of the Silence, a fantasy about
a belated civilisation located in the sub-
terranean Never Never, had a wide circu-
lation and was translated into French
and Russian. His second. Fool’s Harvest,
written three years before the last war,
prophesied the southward advance of
Nippon and the capture of Singapore.
“Pip Tok”: Recent election of Peter
Lyon, retired farmer of Merredin (W.A.),
to the country vice-presidency of the
West’s R.S.L., recalls the famed Holz-
minden tunnel-escape of 1918, Holz-
minden, on the Weser near the Minden
battlefield, had always been an Army
centre; after the Kaiser marched its
barracks were turned into what was con-
sidered an escape-proof prison for
British p.-0.-w. Most of the British
officers held there, including Lyon, had
already had a shot at doing a bolt from
other camps. At Holzminden they were
under the watching eye of an expert prison-
master, a swaggering Prussian-type named
Niemeyer. He, also, had been in other
camps, and prided himself on knowing all
the wrinkles. One day he tried to im-
press this on his guests by the warning
“You think I know nothing about what
you’re hoping. Let me tell you, I know
all about it. In fact, I know damn all
about it!” A Canadian first proposed
the tunnel. This started In a barrack-
room corner and eventually broke ground
in the middle of a rye-field, 60 yards and
nine months’ digging away. The last
part of the work had to be desperately
speeded up, as the rye was almost ready
for reaping. Lyon, the sole Australian,
a burly six-footer, too big for tunnelling,
had the job of pandering to Niemeyer’s
vanity, eventually convincing the Hun
that no one would dream of escaping
from such a vigilant man as himself.
Then, the break! Twenty-nine went
through, 11 got clear away, but Lyon
was stiff enough to be caught trying to
cut through barbed-wire on the German
side of the Dutch border. The Holz-
minden affair was the basis of plans for
tunnelling operations of War 11.
New Victorian Agent-General in
London, J. H. Lienhop, hailed originally
from Bendigo, and has represented it
in the Vic. Legislative Council since
his first election in 1937. About the same
time as his appointment was announced,
the screw of Council members rose by
£3OO a year.
A most important man to Australia
in the present happy state of the world.
Dr. David Martyn, whose name is fol-
lowed by a whole par. of letters, landed
home recently from a world tour. His
chief business the upper atmosphere
and that new science, radio-astronomy,
he is now scientific boss of radio-research
in the C.5.1.R.0. Born in Glasgow in
1906, he was sent from Australia to Eng-
land at a time when the new word “radar”
was used by all hands in the Navy (which
had it first) with a precautionary cloak-
and-dagger look over the shoulder.
Chock-a-block with secret information,
Martyn then came back to recommend
the setting-up of a laboratory for research
here. Attacking Jap bombers up
north remember well what that lab. pro-
duced, in equipment and training. Writer
of a raft of works on atmospheric and
solar physics, a world authority on his
lofty subjects, the doctor now brings
the news that in 1952 over 50 of the
world’s leading scientists will converge
on Australia to attend the 10th general
assembly of the International Union of
Scientific Radio, the first of its kind to
be held here.
Only one year younger than G. B.
Shaw, John Hewlett Ross, author and
teacher of voice-production, equals Shaw
at least in physical and intellectual
activity. Made Fellow of the Royal
Statistical Society way back in 1900, Ross
had lectured, elocuted and adjudicated
long before that, publishing Laureate of
the Centaurs (Adam Gordon’s biography)
in the ’eighties. When not eulogising on
his favorite poet he is likely to be found
at Mt. Gambler, Geelong, Dandenong
and other places, examining for the
London College of Music or the Vic.
Musical Society. He was in at the incep-
tion of broadcasting, and his mellifluous
voice is still a radio attraction.
Into the Silence:
In Adelaide, at 59, George Whinnen, S.
Australian painter of note and for the past
10 years president of the State’s Royal Society
of Arts. Most effective in oils, he twice won
the Melrose prize for portraiture.
In Christchurch (MX.), at 86, W. A.
Kennedy, well-known mountaineer who explored
and mapped many MX. alpine routes, several
features of which bear his name. He compiled a
library of some 20,000 slides, most of them
in color of his own devising long ago, which
still hold their own with modem color-
photography.
In Sydney, at 89, George Valder, one-time
Director of Agriculture in N.S.W. He had been
actively associated with the Sydney R.A.S. since
1891 (when he had charge of the exhibit of
the then newly-formed department) till the
years beat him at last, in 1941, and he retired
from the vice-presidency. He had also been
principal of Hawkesbury Agricultural College
and had had a term as N.S.W. Trade Com-
missioner in South Africa.
In Melbourne, at 67, Dr. Aaron Patkin,
editor of the Melbourne “Zionist” and author
of the History of the Russian-]ewish Labor
Movement and of works on international
jurisprudence. Born in Russia, as a lawyer and
leader of the moderate democratic movement
he felt the hand of the Tsar in the 1905
revolution and of the Bolsheviks in that of
1917. He helped to establish the Moscow Art
Theatre and was a friend of Stanislavsky.
Following the 1917 revolution Patkin left Russia
because of his antipathy to Communism. He
came to Melbourne in 1927, to become one of
the leaders of Melbourne Jewry.


11
srs*"’* -
m
ATIS*"
„£UM
A* cA
iili
set
cORIf 15
mi
mba g °
f £ ff* T,#E
I
UAB>-E •
MtIV
(S»
mi
0
AMERICAN
DISCOVERY
fd
Dolcin has brought relief to count-
less sufferers from rheumatic disorders
in America, Canada and England.
Now it is made available for you.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief
from the painful symptoms of Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Fibrositis,
Lumbago and Gout. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains
substances which improve the supply
of blood and oxygen to the affected
tissues.
Dolcin gives prompt relief, and is
also non-toxic. It will not harm the
heart and can safely be taken for
long periods to relieve the rheu-
matic activity in severe cases.
Many thousands of sufferers, relieved
from the misery of Rheumatism,
including people who had given up
hope of ever getting relief, are now
active again able to work
thanks to the relief from pain Dolcin
has brought them.
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
NEURITIS
FIBROSITIS
LUMBAGO
GOUT
DOLCiN is Non-Toxic and has no
harmful effects on the heart or
any other organ,
DOLCIN relieves painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Lumbago, Fibrositis and Gout.
DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
..... 100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
OOLCIN has been proved In clinical
tests and is prescribed by the
Medical profession.
DOLCiN is approved under the British
Free Medicine Scheme.
DOLCiN is obtainable from your
Chemist.
DOLGIM
Informative literature on Dolcln will be
sent on request to Dolcln (Australia)
Pty. Ltd.. Box 1552, G.P.0., Sydney.
LOVELY WAY
TO BE LAZY
relax in luxurious ease on the
sun-drenched terrace of the
Royal Hayman Hotel—your
eyes entranced by the vivid
panorama of Whitsunday
Passage—deft stewards at hand
to supply every wish.
A few such peaceful days and
you’ll be eager for the more
energetic sports and pas-
times of a Hayman Island
holiday—swimming, cruising,
fishing, exploring Coral
reefs, dancing at night—all the
thrills and gaiety offered
by the finest resort in the
Southern Hemisphere.
r
*
/
K
&
R
RS
-A
-v
St
n
23
\
\
WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE, GREAT BARRIER REEF
Reservations through Ansett Travel Service
Melbourne MU6921; Sydney 8W2921; Adelaide Cen. 2514;
Brisbane 82291; Hobart 7470; Launceston 1760; Canberra 908;
and all recognised travel agencies.
Luxurious four-engined flying-boats fly you direct to the Royal Hayman He
THOSE Starving black
by M.G. VINCENT
THEY were referred to by
the father as “those starv-
ing blacks.”
He would say “Have
those starving blacks been here
yet?” or “Rid Clare says those
starving blacks called in at his
place yesterday,” or “Have any
of you children seen those starv-
ing blacks about today?”
One moment he would de-
clare that old Donaldson, the
sergeant of police, should round
them up and chase them from
the district, and the next he
would mutter “It’s a scandal.
In a country of such vast re-
sources and such primary wealth
as this, no one should be starv-
ing.” His mind, unable to solve
the disturbing problem, fluctu-
ated from one avowed convic-
tion to another, so that after
demanding savagely of no one
in particular “Any rate, why
aren’t they down in that reserve
near Yulungar? They’re well
looked after there. That’d be
better for them than camping
wherever they are camping and
begging for food and clothes,”
he would generally conclude
“By Gad, it’d be like the zoo,
poor devils!”
Where the blacks were
camped was a mystery until
Rooster Cantrell and Turtle
Burton, returning from their
sinister den in the heart of the
rifle-range bush, discovered the
“lean-to” of woven tea-tree
branches against the northern
side of the 600-yard mound.
Intrepid scavengers, dauntless
tormenters as they were, they
took one glance at the slouching
man glaring at them from under
the wide brim of a dilapidated
felt, and walked on along the
narrow path between the tea-
tree shrubs without even falter-
ing in their stride.
The tale of their adventure
changed every time they told it,
and to credulous girls like
Marian they said whatever came
into their minds. “They’re at the
rifle-range in a tea-tree humpy,
and while we wiz watching they
et a few snakes and gohannas
and drank some rabbit blood.
And they’ve got three trained
gohannas as big as crocerdiddles
tied up like dorgs, and if
yousea mad enough to go too
close youse’ll be bit and die of a
running sore. And the old bloke
kin throw a spear, a nullah-
nullah and a boomerang all at
the same time in three diffrunt
directions.”
Marian repeated all this one
lunch - time. Jimmy’s eyes
widened, then crinkled into
tightly-furled anemones from
which water spouted copiously.
“They’ll kill us,” he cried
piteously.
“They’ll creep up in the dead
of night like the wicked
Governors,” whispered Pen,
savoring the grim words, but too
placid to be really alarmed.
“Oh, pooh,” said Jane.
“Rooster Cantrell tells lies.”
Katie O’Quilp, the girl who
“helped in the mornings,” began
to cry. “Oh, oh, oh,” she wept, and
went into the laundry to dry her
eyes on the hem of her petticoat.
'THIS was the way the father
1 found the household when
he arrived for his lunch. “What
ho, what’s wrong here?” he de-
manded in the jocularly cheerful
tone which he used to deal with
trying situations when, and only
when, he was in a good humor.
“What ho, Katie O’Quilp? Dry
those eyes, Katie O’Quilp.
What’s wrong?”
“Oh, Mr. Venables, please,”
whispered Katie from the tangle
of her long black ringlets.
“Them blacks, it is. Camped
they are at the rifle-range, and
there have I been passing right
by them every morning and
afternoon, and them relations
of them bad wicked Governors.”
“What! What’s this?”
“Oh, it’s really nothing, Ray.
Marian has brought home a very
silly story about those blacks,
which that silly little boy Dennis
Cantrell has started, and I’m
sure there’s no need for Katie
to be so alarmed. She can go
home by Taylor’s-lane if she’s
frightened. It’s a bit longer, but
she won’t need to go anywhere
pjear the rifle-range then.”
“Dry those eyes, Katie
O’Quilp,” said the father cheer-
fully. “Begorra, you’ll have me
crying, and it’ll take me the rest
of the day to clean my glasses.”
“Oh, Mr. Venables!” hic-
coughed Katie, rubbing her eyes
with her knuckles.
“Why, if you lifted a finger
at one of those starving blacks
they’d probably run a mile. That
is, if they had the strength to
run a mile. Bill Styles told me
today they came to his place,
and that they all look like that
old nag of Hollister’s.”
As it was only a week since
Hollister’s horse had fallen
down and lain there till it was
shot, all his listeners could
imagine the emaciation of the
unfortunate blacks.
Jane said with glee “Well, if
I see one, I’ll hold out my finger
and they’ll fall down. Will Mr.
Hassett have to come along and
shoot them, too?”
“Don’t be so dreadful,” cried
Marian, very horrified.
That afternoon Jane came
home full of ne\Vs. “I saw eight
black children,” she cried, “and
I held up my finger and not one
of them took any notice and just
went straight into Trimbles’.
And Pen’s in there with Polly,
and I could hear them giggling
in the bathroom,”
When Pen arrived home she
said that Mrs. Trimble had given
away a “whole pile of clothes.”
The mother sniffed. “Those
blacks will soon be better
dressed than we are!”
“Mrs. Trimble gave them that
lovely green velveteen dress of
Polly’s,” said Pen sadly. She
loved pretty things with lots of
bows on them, and this par-
ticular dress had been one big
bow.
All of this was reported to
the father at tea-time. He
grinned elaborately at the
mother. “You better look
around and see what you can
find,” he said. “It looks as
though they’re working up this
way. They’ve apparently
skinned out the other end of the
town.”
“We have nothing. I can tell
you that without looking,”
announced the mother, crimping
her lips.
“Now, don’t start pulling that
poor mouth for my benefit,”
replied the father.
“They went to Mrs. Moore’s
and she skitched the dog on
them,” volunteered Jane. “And
I held up my finger at them and
they just kept on walking. So
there! ”
“How did you hold it?” asked
the father. Jane demonstrated.
“Ah, I thought so,” cried the
father. “The wrong way. This
is the way you should have done
it.”
“Ray!” cautioned the mother.
After tea Jane, Pen and
Jimmy practised “holding the
finger” at the blacks.
Whosever’s turn it was to be the
blacks was supposed to fall
down and stay down (like Hol-
lister’s horse). The mother put
a stop to this when she dis-
covered Jane dragging Jimmy
by the feet and calling him a
“smelly black corpse.” Pen was
awaiting her turn to be dragged
(on a mat), and was very
annoyed when the mother
insisted on her getting to her
feet unaided.
JT was not surprising that, the
1 next day after school, Jane
should suggest that they should
pay a visit to the blacks’ camp
and try out the sign. Jimmy
was away with his mother, who
was at a mah-jongg party, so
this considerably lessened the
difficulties of the escapade.
As soon as they set foot in the
tasselled grasses of the Priest’s
Paddock, the golden haze of the
autumn afternoon drifted down
on them like magical pollen.
Far below them, the marshes set
a necklet of emeralds deep in the
russet-red plush of the sorrel.
which grew where the soil of
the plain was soured by the
endless soakage from the fertile
hills. As always in autumn, the
the mountains came close to
the plateau, and, looking at them,
it seemed to the children that
by springing into the air from
the hill they could span the low-
lands with one felicitous leap.
“We can fly, we can fly,” they
cried, holding out their skirts
and skipping down the steep hill
until they tripped and fell,
giggling breathlessly, amongst
the seed-heads. They lay there,
relaxed against the earth and
watched the myriads of tassels,
the soft summer grasses, the
larger prairie and the cocksfoot,
the firm tesselated whips of
paspalum, move in delicate
pattern against the sky. Sud-
denly through the ground a
thumping noise came to them,
strangely terrifying. They sat up
abruptly, their eyes round with
apprehension. It was only nice
old Father Cronin leading his
ancient mare, his face red with
the exertion of the climb which
had scarcely begun.
“And what have we here,
now?” he quavered, his jowls
and two chins quivering each
time he uttered a syllable, so
that by the end of a sentence
such a vibration had been set up
that they just kept on unless he
put up his withered hand to
quieten them. In spite of his
age, his eyes were bright as the
blue in a wash-tub. “And what
might you be doing in the
Praist’s Paddock, now, might I
ask?”
“We’re after the blacks,”
volunteered Jane.
“Now it’s teasing an old man.


Notv, more than ever
THE BEST PUCE FOR
INVESTED THIS WAY THEY WILL HELP SECURE
AUSTRALIA'S FUTURE AS WELL AS YOUR OWN
Long recognised as the best place to
invest sums of £lO or more, ten Security
Loans have been filled by Australia’s
savers and wise investors. . . . Now comes
the Eleventh Security Loan, and with it
another opportunity to put your money
to profitable work, and to assist the great
developmental tasks now confronting
Australia.
All Australians must do everything in
their power to strengthen the economy
of their country.
Do all you can. Invest your savings
at once and, if you hold maturing
Commonwealth Securities, convert these
immediately into the Eleventh Security
Loan.
4% Securities now due for
Conversion
All outstanding 4% Commonwealth
Securities originally due to mature be-
tween 1953 and 1961 will now be
repayable on 2nd January, 1951, by
the exercise of the Treasurer’s option.
Interest payments will cease on that date.
If you hold any of these Securities, con-
vert them at once into the Eleventh
Security Loan and you will prevent any
interruption to the income which they
bring you. The column on the right
gives you all the information you need
about conversion. Read these details
now.
For all Investors
Investors big and small can secure the
benefits of investment in the Eleventh
Security Loan —Bonds are available for
as little as £lO. Eleventh Security Loan
Bonds are safe guaranteed by the
Commonwealth. They increase your
savings by paying interest regularly every
six months. And they are readily
negotiable should you need your money
in case of a personal emergency.
Strengthen your own saving plan and
help strengthen" Australia, too, by invest-
ing your savings in the Eleventh Security
Loan —today!
\
LEND STRENGTH TO AUSTRALIA W°A INVEST IN THE
ELEVENTH SECURITY LOAN
I 15L8.115.110
you would be,” he chided them.
“That’s a foine thing, and it’s
telling your mother I should be,
that I should.”
“Oh, but there are blacks,
Father,” protested Marian.
“They’re down at the rifle-
range.”
“And we’re going to hold the
finger at them,” said Jane
roguishly, demonstrating with
enthusiasm. His eyes behind the
twinkles became speculative.
“Indade and you are. And does
your mother know of this?”
“No.”
“Or your father, maybe?”
“No.”
“Then it’s a nasty old man I
must be, and take you home.
Come on. One of you can lead
old Betsy and you can take it in
turns to ride.”
They could see that he was
in earnest, and although they did
not “belong” to his church they
felt compelled to obey him, be-
cause their mother had lived
opposite his presbytery when she
was a child, and now he often
sat in their kitchen drinking tea
and eating coffee rolls and talk-
ing happily of the lovely Tweed
Valley and the people who had
felled its forests and tilled its
soil.
[T took them a long time to
1 reach the top of the hill, what
with the mounting and the un-
mounting, and the frequent stops
for Father Cronin to “get his
breath.” When they arrived at
last, the sun was immediately
behind them, so that as they
came over the rim it seemed as
though they were black card-
board figures on a ferris-wheel.
Their mother was at the front
gate, calling their names in an
earsplitting shriek that completely
drowned Marian’s light treble,
“Here we are.”
“Oh, there you are, darlings,”
the mother cried. “I couldn’t
think where you were because I
knew the Trimbles were all out.
Oh, and Father Cronin .. . Why,
I haven’t seen you for such a
long-g-g time!”
She came down the embank-
ment and the children could see
at a glance that there was to be
a long discussion about the
Tweed, so with unintelligible
murmurs they shuffled off to the
gate.
“Oh, come on!” yelled Jane,
and led the way to the front
veranda, where they planned a
“finger-pointing” expedition for
the next day.
THESE plans were never to be
put into operation. Parian
was just dozing off that night
when she heard her mother’s
voice, brittle with determination,
saying, “Now, Ray, please put
down that paper and listen to
me for just a minute. It’s im-
portant.”
“Well! ” Marian could imagine
the glare which accompanied
this.
“Those girls were on their way
to point the finger at the blacks
this afternoon when Father
Cronin brought them home.
Now I hurried home this after-
noon because I saw that black
man down near the Church of
England, and he has a terrible
face. I can tell you that he gave
me a very nasty feeling indeed.”
“I know all about your ‘nasty
feelings.’ ”
“And,” went on the mother,
ignoring this remark, “what is
more, he smelt”
“I suppose he thought you did,
too,” commented the father with
the first touch of good humor.
“Don’t be silly. I mean he
smelt of drink !”
“Bunkum! ”
“It isn’t bunkum. You know
how I can smell”
“You mean how you imagine
you can smell imaginary drink.”
“It was spirits,” declared the
mother with firm conviction.
“And he had a whisky-bottle
under his arm.”
“Impossible. Neither Sid nor
Mrs. Lyons’d give it to him.”
“What’s to stop one of those
hobos getting it and reselling it?”
There was no answer forth-
coming to this. “And so to-
morrow before you go to work
you better take Marian aside and
make it quite clear to her that
they’re to be careful, without
frightening her. She’ll take
notice of you.”
“H’m.”
“Now you will, Ray, won’t
you?”
“H’m.”
It was a long time before
Marian went to sleep. She knew
she should not have been eaves-
dropping, so she did not dare to
call out. About midnight the
house was disturbed by her
screams, “The black man’s
here! ” she cried shrilly, “Daddy,
Daddy. The black man’s on the
veranda!”
The father came out and put
on the light. All the children
were under the bedclothes, the
blankets held firmly above their
heads, although they were more
or less used to Marian’s night-
mares. It was really only
Marian, witness of the dreadful
sight, who was terrified ; and be-
cause he knew all about her
dreams the father went to her,
but did not touch her. “Come
on, Maidie,” he said. “There’s
no one here.” He closed the
window. “There, the window’s
down.”
“Lock it.”
He locked it, “There, it’s
locked,” he said kindly. One by
one the heads appeared, the faces
flushed, the eyes bright. On
Marian’s forehead the beads of
perspiration stuck like cashews
on frosted icing. She whispered,
“I felt him breathe on me.”
“It was only the cool breeze.
If he’d been there there would
have been marks on the veranda
and there’s nothing. It was only
a dream. Now I’ll leave on the
laundry light and you’re to go to
sleep.”
NEXT morning as they were
all lined up cleaning their
shoes on the edge of the veranda
the father said, in a jocular voice,
“Now, no more dreams about
blacks. Just keep away from
blacks in the day and you won’t
{Continued on next page.)
All you want
to know about
CONVERSION of
4% Commonwealth
Securities
The Commonwealth Securities
which will be repayable on 2nd
January, 1951, are all the 4%
Commonwealth Bonds and In-
scribed Stock issued in August,
1931, now outstanding, and
expressed to be due to mature
on the following dates;—
15th July, 1953.
15th December, 1955.
15th November, 1957.
15th October, 1959.
15th September, 1961.
The Treasurer has exercised
his option to redeem these
Securities before the final dates
of their maturity, and they are
now due for redemption or
conversion on 2nd January,
1951.
If you hold 4% Inscribed
Stock, or own 4% Common-
wealth Bonds held in safe cus-
tody by your bank, you should
have received a letter from the
Treasurer telling you the new
date on which they will mature
and enclosing a conversion
application form which you are
advised to complete immediately
and return to your bank.
Whether or not you have re-
ceived such a letter, if you hold
any 4% Securities your holdings
are affected and will cease earn-
ing interest on 2nd January,
1951, unless they are converted.
Your bank or stockbroker
will, immediately on request
from you, arrange for conver-
sion of your holdings into the
Eleventh Security Loan. You
will then possess Eleventh
Security Loan Bonds or In-
scribed Stock of the same face
value as your maturing Securities
and interest on your Securities
will continue.
Interest on the new Securities
is payable each six months at
3£% per annum for 11-14 years
or at 2% per annum for three
years. (Investment in 2%
Securities must be for £l,OOO
and multiples thereof.)
Cash Investment
As well as those with matur-
ing Securities to convert, every-
one may buy Bonds (£lO, £5O,
£lOO, £5OO or £1,000) or Inscribed
Stock through any Bank,
Savings Bank, Money Order
Post Office or Stockbroker.
Interest is payable each six
months at 3|% per annum for
11-14 years or at 2% per annum
for three years. (Investment in
2% Securities must be fdr £l,OOO
and multiples thereof.)
Repayment in full at maturity
is guaranteed by the Common-
wealth. There’s no better place
for your savings. Invest at once.
The Eleventh Security Loan
closes Thursday, 14th December.


f Most-wanted
Christmas Gift-
a Camera from
KODAK
wmmm
m
m
m.
m
m
m
*
-m.
m
k
m
m
1
nisi
1
in
RC2
BROWNIE REFLEX
CAMERA
(At Left): Reflex
viewfinder shows
picture in actual
size; time and instan-
taneous shutter;
modern push-button
release; 12 exp.,
14 x If ins. Price,
£4/1/-.
KODAK
(A/asia) PTY. LTD.
Branches in all States
r SIX-20 FOLDING
BROWNIE CAMERA
(Top Illustration): Econo-
mical and efficient;
Meniscus lens; time and
instantaneous shutter; all-
metal body; black-grained
leatherette covering; 8 exp.,
2% x ins. Price, £7/2/6.
SIX-20 BROWNIE
"C" CAMERA
(Centre Illustration): New
model box Brownie; Kodak
Meniscus lens; two large
viewfinders; time and in-
stantaneous shutter; all-
metal body; 8 exp., 2£ x 3$
ins. Price, 46/3.
SIX-20 KODAK ‘•A**
CAMERA
(Lower Illustration):
Anastar f/6.3 lens, focusing
from 4 ft. to infinity; Dakon
shutter with two speeds
{l/25 and 1/50 sec.); time
and "bulb"; 8 exp., x
Bj; ins. Price, £l2/8/3.
Kodak. Dealers Every
be dreaming about them at
night.”
Nothing more was said or
heard of the starving blacks until
Saturday afternoon. The father
came home about one o’clock
and after lunch he burned the
big patch of cutty-grass, cleaned
out the drain and lopped a
couple more branches off the
gum-tree in front of the house
(in spite of the protests from the
mother and Marian). Then he
said, with a beatific smile, “Well,
I wonder what I feel like. Now,
who can guess what I feel like?”
“Bulls’ - eyes,” said Jimmy
hopefully.
“No!”
There were a number of
guesses from each child, but all
met the same answer. So at last
he said, “All wrong. Cress!
Water-cress! Who’s coming to
get water-cress?”
The mother, who always
seemed to be within earshot
when anything was afoot, called
out suspiciously, “Where are you
going for water-cress?”
“Well, now, where do you
think?” demanded the father
drily. “Down to Taylor’s-lane.
Is that where we’d get water-
cress? Or to Johnson’s Pad-
dock?”
“I know where you’re going—
Brandy Creek. And I know
very well you’re not going just
for water-cress, because when
you get it home you’ll suddenly
decide it’ll give you hydatids.
No! You’re going to edge
around that rifle-range. Now,
those children are to stay at
home.”
“Who said anything about the
rifle-range?” demanded the
father. “You’re always jumping
to conclusions. Not a word
about rifle-ranges, and there’s
your mother got us there already.
Come on. Follow me!”
“We’ll be all right. Mummy,”
said Marian reassuringly. The
mother watched them through
the gate then she cried loudly,
“Don't you go near that rifle-
range, Ray!"
“Modulate your voice,” was
the only response. As they
jumped down the embankment
the father’s voice wafted back to
her “Cress, cress, we’re going for
cress. Cress, cress, beautiful
cress.” “Cress, cress, beautiful
cress,” the children began to
chant, and thus singing they dis-
appeared one by one over the
grass-plumed hillside of the
Priest’s Paddock.
ONE hour later they were
back, a much chastened
crew. Jane, as usual, was the
advance-guard. Her sturdy legs,
slightly pigeon-toed, carried her
indefatigably up that last pinch
of the hill, and, breathless, she
fell into the kitchen. Leaning
her arms along the table she
rested her sweaty face and
bedraggled hair on her
folded hands. “Daddy—was—
sick,” she announced. Then as
an afterthought she added, while
her mother’s agitated hands
fluttered from quaking heart to
rounded mouth, “He vomited be-
cause of the dreadful smell.”
“Why must you always leave
the explanation till last?” de-
manded the mother, angry be-
cause of the shock. “Now, just
what happened?”
“We got the cress and then
Daddy said as we were so close
we might as well see what the
blacks were up to, so we walked
through the tea-tree and right
along the path right beside them
and Daddy carried Jimmy be-
cause he was scared, and then
we came to the start of the smell
and instead of going away it got
worse and we had to hurry like
mad past the camp thing so’s
Daddy and Pen could get into
the tea-trees in time to be sick,
and we did, and they were.”
“Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear,”
cried the mother. “I had a feel-
ing something was going to hap-
pen.” She went out to the
porch. At the front gate were
the father, Marian and Jimmy,
and still at the Priest’s Paddock
was Pen, grizzling for all she
was worth because her under-
garments were caught on the
barbed-wire.
“Serve you right,” cried
Marian. “You wouldn’t hurry.”
Instantly there Was a wail of
anguish. “Ooooh, hurry, or I’ll
tear my clothes. Quick-k-k, I
can feel it going to tear!”
“I am not mending any more
clothes, Marian! Go immediately!”
“She does it deliberately just
to make me go back,” moaned
Marian; but she went to a her
sister’s aid all the same.
When tea-time drew near, the
father looked very sorry for him-
self, and said he did not think
he could manage any tea; but
the mother made such a fuss
about his refusal that he
martyred himself to the extent
of taking up his usual position
at the table. When the steaming
steak-and-kidney pie was set be-
fore him, his lips twisted. “What
do you think I am, a navvy?”
he demanded, and promptly
divided the pie into two and
placed half on his bread-and-
butter plate. Very slowly he
ate the first few mouthfuls, then,
when he thought no one was
looking, he slid the piece of pie
from the bread-and-butter plate
back on to his dinner plate. The
mother, seeing him out of the
corner of her eye, smiled, but did
nbt say anything.
FOR almost an hour the
blacks were not mentioned ;
then, for no apparent reason, the
father, who was sitting in front
of a roaring fire, cried out sud-
denly, “They’re a menace!”
The mother, laying the book
she’d been reading on her knee,
looked up at him and asked,
“Well, what are you going to
do?”
“Do! What can I do?” he
thundered, his eyes protruding.
“Of all the stupid women!”
Picking up her book again she
said haughtily “The trouble is
you can’t make up your mind.”
“Who said I couldn’t? You
don’t know what you’re talking
about.”
“Well then, if you’ve made up
your mind, why don’t you ring
Mr. Hassett and get him to do
something?”
“And what do you think
Hassett can do? He might as
well give orders to the elements.”
However, in spite of these
derogatory remarks, scarcely five
minutes had passed before he
was at the phone ringing up Mr.
Hassett.
“Is that you, Harry? Oh,
Venables here. Sorry to disturb
you on a Saturday night, but if
I waited till Monday I prob-
ably wouldn’t catch you. I know
you’re out early on the job.
Now, it’s about those blacks.
Oh, you know about them.
They’ve been collecting at your
place. No, not up this far yet,
but working up this way. They’re
camped at the rifle-range. Yes,
that’s where they are all right.’
He gave a graphic description
of the camp, the refuse scattered
indiscriminately, the “lack of
sanitary conveniences.” He con-
cluded, ‘ Something will have to
be done to make them clean up
that camp, or get out. Is there
anything you can do about it?”
He listened for a while, his brows
gradually drawing together until
they were a continuous line
across his expansive forehead.
At last he cried out, obviously
interrupting, “Outside the
scavenging area! Why, they’re
camped right under my nose,”
Jane whispered “Daddy must
have a long nose,” and the girls
started giggling. The father
glared at them and plugged a
finger in his right ear. At last he
said in a resigned tone, “Yes,
you’re right there. You might
as well give instructions to the
rabbits .. . Well, the club is hav-
ing one of its periodic ‘vaca-
tions’ at the moment, but Mellor
is the —or was the —president.
If he can’t order them off . . .
Well, of course, it’s a public
reserve ... I don’t know. Per-
haps Donaldson’s the man.”
At last the conversation con-
cluded. He fell back into his
chair, very disconsolate. “There
you are,” he said triumphantly.
“What did I tell you?” He
stared into space. At last he
said “Poor devils. I suppose they
have to camp somewhere” ; then,
very fiercely, “Filthy, dirty
wretches,”
It was at this precise moment
that the phone rang and Marian,
answering it, said Mr, Mellor
wanted him. The father sprang
from the chair, his face lighting
up remarkably. “Ah,” he said
down the phone, “you’re just the
man. Now, as the president of
the rifle club have you the
authority to clear campers off
the reserve?”
The mellow, pontifical tones of
Mr. Mellor thrummed into the
living-room.
“So they are there, are they?”
it vibrated. “Cantrell has just
been telling me some colorful
story, but as he swallows any-
thing that kid of his cooks up
I wasn’t going to be trapped.
Have you seen the camp?”
“I’ve seen it and smelt it,”
said the father with great satis-
faction. “You’ll have to get a
plough and scarify a quarter of
an acre before we’ll be able to
get near the place. That is, if
we are going to use it again.”
“I’ll go and inspect it to-
morrow. Are you coming?”
“Not on your life,” declared
the father with violence. “I’m
not going within cooee of the
place till it’s cleaned up. You
know my stomach,” he ended,
unconsciously rubbing the
offending portion.
“There’s nothing wrong with a
stomach that can digest three
pounds of prawns,” was the un-
sympathetic reply. “Well, if you
won’t come. I’ll drag Thiselwaite
along and perhaps Kay will
come,”
This time the father relaxed in
his chair. Benignly he ordered
Marian to join the other children,
who had gone to bed. “Just let
me finish this chapter,” mumbled
Marian, and was very relieved
when he fell asleep almost in-
stantly.
“There you are, Marian,”
pointed out the mother. “He
says he doesn’t go to sleep. Just
look at him.”
“S-s-s-s-h-h,” whispered
Marian. “You’ll wake him up
and then he’ll make me go to
bed, and I want to finish The
Phantom of the River.”
NEXT day being Sunday, all
the children were sent to
Sunday-school. W hen they
arrived home they found six of
the black children lined up about
a foot from the edge of the back
veranda. Each child held a
piece of cream cake, and each of
them was staring as though
mesmerised at the father, who
stood on the veranda with a
pile of clothes at his feet.
“What’s wrong with you?”
the father was demanding, exas-
perated. “Eat it up. Nice cream
(Continued on page 32.)


MODERN
SANITATION
IN UNSEWERED
AREAS
»
iciMi'K
M
i
hyceia dissolvenator
(Complete self-contained sanitary
system.)
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO EMPTYING
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
f
ANY HANDYMAN CAN
INSTAL IT
Sewage material Is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that
runs away into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet,
HY6EIA SANITARY CO.
PTY., LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Qoulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
SWEET OR DRY
jr;
dfd
Missing Friends.
WOULD MR. WILLIAM BARTON, for-
merly of Geelong Road, Ballarat East,
communicate with J. M, BARTON, 368
Geelong Road, Footscray, Victoria.
MW8163. Beneficiary under will.
WOULD any person who can furnish in-
formation as to the whereabouts of
THOMAS EUDEY, the husband of JANET
EUDEY, nee CARLYLE, and their two
children WILLIAM and DELILA, who
were all last heard of in Victoria, please
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Regd.
RADIATORS
fd
V
i
m
KJ
Si
ISI
“THE ADMIRAL”
Double Burner Radiator
Model R. 46. Burns 10
hours on 2J pints of
Kerosene. Luxurious
warmth, when and
where you want It. The
Modern Form of Portable
Heating.
“THE AMBASSADOR”
Single Burner Radiator
Model R.l. Burns 12 hours
on one filling of IJ pints of
Kerosene. The complete
answer to those cold pass-
ages and occasional rooms.
Portable.
Australian Representatives:
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
'fmniilitf.
m wmiitnmiimiM
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD. OF ENGLAND
SUNDRY SHOWS
"The Highwayman."
Somebody is always getting up
in public and demanding that
somebody else should write, for
the glory of the country, an
Australian musical comedy at
least as good as “Rio Rita” and
others of that genus. Now it has
been done, and quite up to any
standard.
“The Highwayman,” music,
book and lyrics by Edmund
Samuels, produced and directed
by Carl Randall, and sumptu-
ously upholstered, has appeared
at Melbourne King’s, and if
Melbourne doesn’t patronise it
in large numbers it will just be
another example of the Aus-
tralian inferiority complex. It
has gold-crazed diggers and abos
in it, bushrangers and troopers,
the Eaglehawk Inn, Government
House and English redcoats,
drinking songs and songs of the
bushmen —all very bright and
catchy.
There is at least one number
which lifts the music to a high
artistic level —the contribution
of Ted Mullett, a full-blooded
member of the Yarfa-Yarra
tribe, who sings a chant said to
be an ancient tribal ditty. It is
lovely and has all the quality of
folk music, and the singer’s
broad indulgent smile is the most
dignified thing in the whole
evening.
The proceedings begin some-
where around Bendigo about
1860, and pass, without pause,
through sundry scenic and sar-
torial changes, to the splendors
of the gubernatorial ballroom in
Melbourne, and the happy
romance between Beryl Seton, as
the innkeeper’s lovely daughter,
and Earl Covert, handsome high-
wayman with the baritone voice,
who turns out to be a captain
of the guards whom the Gover-
nor had detailed to bring the
bushrangers to justice. There is
also a fell and filthy villain in
the person of Ray Dandy, an
early colonial example of a
blackmarketeer, while the humor
is provided by Charles Norman
and Ann Donald. Mr, Nor-
man’s wisecracks get better and
better as the evening progresses,
and he warms up to the subject
of rising prices, with wool at
fivepence a pound, beer at two-
pence halfpenny and steam-
trains destroying the dignity of
existence.
A beautiful corps de ballet,
some elegant dancing by Everard
Norton and Wilfred Stevens and
plenty of singing and high-step-
ping by the chorus add to the
gaiety of the evening.
A Brahms Night.
The all-Brahms programme
through which Eugene Goossens
piloted the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra served strikingly to
demonstrate how far the
orchestra has come since Goos-
sens took up the baton per-
manently and vowed he would
within a few years have it in
world class.
Quite apart from the solid
musicianship which informs his
interpretative work, perhaps the
greatest service Goossens has
done the orchestra has been in
the careful selection of his vari-
ous section-principals. Today
these men rate very high.
Two of them, the concert-
master, Ernest Llewellyn, and
the principal ’cellist, John
Kennedy, were the soloists in the
Double Concerto in A Minor.
The strength and resilience of
this remarkable work, Brahms’s
last venture in the concerto
form, lost nothing in the play-
ing, either by the soloists or by
the orchestra, of which, for a
time, as in the old Concerto
Grosso, they became a part. The
long statement of the principal
thematic material, which pre-
cedes the tossing of it from one
solo instrument to the other, was
finely wrought, the tutti pas-
sages with the soloists later
being of strength and cogency.
Homs and woodwinds combined
beautifully in the introductory
passages of the reposeful an-
dante, and, in the dancelike
gaiety of the final movement,
rhythms were given with due
zest but no overemphasis.
The other big work was the
First Symphony — Brahms’s
“Pathetic,” Niemann called it.
But its grief bears no resem-
blance to the sorrowful outpour-
ing of Tschaikowsky. Tragic it
may be in context, but it is of
noble resignation such as that
which touched the last great
quartets of Beethoven, The
ecstatic flight of the strings
against the tympani immediately
sets the stage for the grandeur
of the first movement, and this
was played splendidly and with
well-sustained thrust in the
working-out section.
The second movement was a
lyrical flow from start to finish,
the oboe contributing some fine
work. Then, with the final
allegro, came some of the most
inspired playing of the season,
as the gradually - quickening
pizzicati finally bursts into the
full grandeur of the movement
with its joyous folk-song carried
along with irresistible exuber-
ance.
Julius Cœsar.
The Australian Repertory
Theatre’s presentation of “Julius
Caesar,” by William Shakspeare,
at the Union Theatre, University
of Melbourne, had its compensa-
tions, even if most of them were
due to William Shakspeare.
Stan Robinson, as Mark An-
tony, rose to great heights in
the famous funeral oration over
dead Caesar’s body, and brought
tears to the eyes of a cross-sec-
tion of the Roman population.
Albert Falkington, as Cassius,
was a sufficiently subtle schemer,
and Jerry Norris combined a
youthful appearance with the
verbal dignity of the noble
Brutus. Rob Davison was ner-
vously excited as Casca, and
Harcourt Renton made imperial
Caesar an even more pompous
platitudinist obsessed with his
own importance than did Shak-
speare. Margaret Kallallea, as
Calpurnia, and Lesley Holmes,
as Portia, played their small
parts well.
Donald Friend.
“O.F.”: One might safely
presume that Italy and England
have a certain amount of natural
light—sun or storm —to bring
their landscapes to life and to
point and line their buildings and
villages, so one wonders why
Donald Friend didn’t bring more
of the commodity back with his
watercolor drawings of Italy and
England—24 impressions, most
of them sold, and on show
at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney.
Where he has almost recorded
it as in “Testaccio, Ischia,”
a white village held gently
and possessively by the sur-
rounding hills the effect is
almost satisfactory; where he
seems to have neglected it com-
pletely—as in “Piazza Cestello,”
buildings in dead, unilluminated
color with water and sky of the
same flat hue —the result is com-
pletely unsatisfactory. “Stogum-
ber, Somerset,” and “Stogum-
ber” might also be pleasant
companions if a little more light
had crept between and around
the buildings and found the trees
and encircled their shadows,
but “Hampstead Heath,” with
its confused line of buildings and
trees, and reflections of colors
and outlines mixed in the water
as nature never mixed them,
needs much more than the light
of day to transform it.
Groups of heads and figures
such as “Firenze, ’50,” “Testac-
cio” and “London, ’50,” are,
even though they are recorded
with studied carelessness and
considered absence of line, only
notes, and, while notes can be
delightfully interesting things,
they are not, after all, pictures
—as is “Youths, Ischia,” in
which, sketchy though it is,
there are feeling, thought and
purpose in the subjects and the
drawing of them.
There is a careless, scratchy
cleverness about “San Marino,”
“Landscape, Testaccio” and
“Attilio” which recalls the
theatrical-designer’s art. The
boy in “Pescatore,” tired as he
is, looks alive enough to have
caught his fish and enjoyed
catching them, even if the fish
look as though they never were
caught anywhere.
"An Inspector Calls."
Anybody could have been
forgiven if he had left the Mel-
bourne University’s Union
Theatre after the second act of
this play of Priestley’s, but if he
had he would have missed some-
thing. Up to that point nobody
would imagine that Mr. Priestley
was thinking about human
nature, but was engaged in writ-
ing a particularly commonplace
and obvious thriller.
A police-inspector walks into
the home of the Birling family
and starts questioning father,
mother, son, daughter and
daughter’s lover about their
association with an unfortunate
girl who has been found preg-
nant on a common with her
stomach burnt out with self-
inflicted arsenic. Despite the
apparent poverty of his imagina-
tion the inspector worms out a
series of facts which completely
alter the relationships of the
various members of the family
unit. Jealousy of a face that
was prettier than her own caused
the daughter to get the girl
sacked from a dressmaking
establishment. The father sub-
sequently sacked her for leading
a strike for a weekly rise of two-
and - sixpence. Later the
daughter’s lover picked her up
at a theatre, made her his tem-
porary mistress and then deserted
her.
As chairman of a women’s
organisation for succoring dis-
tressed females the mother was
instrumental in getting her
(i Continued on page J 5.)


#//
0 •
V
Elastoplast
T«AD« HAM
Every parent should keep handy a tin
of the new Waterproof Elastopiast
plastic First Aid Dressings. There’s
no fear of water, grease or oil
getting to cuts protected by these
dressings. Waterproof Elastopiast
is firmly adhesive and does not ruck
up; its smooth, non-catch surface
always washes dean. It’s so
comfortable, too —stretching with
every movement. Ask at your
Chemist for Waterproof Elastopiast.
■
*
.m.s
* (
FABRIC ELASTOPLASI
1$ still available. These
popular dressings ate
exactly what you need
when protection from
liquids is not specifically
called for.
...2 KINDS OF ELASTOPLAST
•. Fabric & Waterproof
EJ/li*
Products of T. J. SMITH & NEPHEW iLTD./Htill, .Eri.glond
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOYCE MADELINE THOMPSON late
of Surry Hills N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE
that PERCIYAL RAYMOND THOMPSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2425
of 1950 on the ground of adultery with
JOHN WILLIAM WARREN If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
House King Street Sydney by the 6th
day of February 1951 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from MR.
JOHN W. BINNEY, Solicitor, 79 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—j. DOUQHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO MARIE HENDERSON late of Glebe.
—TAKE NOTICE that JOHN PEEPERS
HENDERSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2271 of 1950 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or exeuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Seventh February
1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from JOHN HICKEY &
SON, Solicitors, 11c Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO RUPERT MATHEW KENNEDY late
of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that VERA
MAY KENNEDY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4257 of 1950 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
exeuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance on or before the 13th day of
February 1951 at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. A. O. BOYLE &
CO., Solicitors, 39 Martin Place, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Self-winding
",
1
m
m
'■ ■:■
mm
m
m
m
I m
Si
H
Perfected by
fd
NEW rotary winding rev^l
tionary—and brings perfection to the automatic watch. On
each movement of your hand, the revolving disc spins
backward, forward, or around—and with each sensitive
movement the disc winds the watch. It cannot overwind,
and the revolving winder avoids all jerking of the watch
movement.
INCORPORATING EVERY FEATURE OF
THE WORLD’S FINEST WATCHES!
1. Rotomatic winding. 2. Shockproof.
3. Waterproof. 4. Non-magnetic. 5. Heat
and cold resistant, fi. Unbreakable crystal.
7. 17 jewel Swiss lever movement.
8. Sweep second-hand.
f
Imported complete. Felca Rotomatic £2l
MAIL ORDERS
ARE registered
and post free.
Write to:
JoL-H
Mail Order Specialises
A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney
(Also at Town Hall Station, Sydney)
' ' iv •'
THE SERVICE MAN
"National Service."
“Ek Dum”: The National
Service Bill was introduced on
November 21 by Mr. Harold
Holt as National Service Minis-
ter. It was brought in with kid-
gloves and with a hesitation
which does not accord with
the grim urgency of the world
situation, with the dangers
obvious from Peking Radio
and Moscow propaganda,
which are even now doing every-
thing possible to inflame the
Chinese to the point of war
against Britain and the United
States.
With Indo-China in jeopardy,
with Tibet in Red hands, with
Egypt rioting for the expulsion
of the British from the defence
of the Suez Canal, with Malaya
introducing conscription and
the Commonwealth Prime
Ministers called together for de-
fence discussions next January,
the time seems to be one for
bold measures ; but Mr. Holt was
almost as apologetic as if he had
been caught kidnapping a few
thousand youths, and the whole
thing is hedged about with ex-
pedients which augur badly for
decisive action in producing a
real defence force.
Overseas Service
The Minister explained that
there was no provision in the
bill to provide for liability for
overseas service, but no trainee
would be balloted for or called
up for service with the R.A.N.
and R.A.A.F. unless he agreed
in advance to serve overseas if
called upon ; so those bodies can
starve for men if there are
enough shirkers.
There is no explanation
offered why immediate steps are
not taken to bring the Army on
to the same basis as the other
services, an absolute necessity,
since the first phase of any war
which threatens must be fought
to keep the enemy away from
Australian coasts, and the func-
tions of infantry—more and
more airborne when striking at
a distance —Navy and Air Force
are daily becoming more closely
interlocked.
Mr. Holt was very strong on
the point that trainees would be
protected in their civil employ-
ments, as they should be, and he
was very insistent that call-ups
would mean very little loss to
industrial manpower and that
“what loss there would be the
Government had decided must
be borne.” It probably would
not need to be borne if the
Government were to clamp
down on some of the luxury in-
dustries which are wasting man-
power and sapping the virility of
the population.
Coalminers Exempt
One industry is to be treated
as an exception—the coal in-
dustry, “because it occupies a
position of such unique import-
ance in the Australian economy
that men could hardly be spared
from it at present, and it is
unlikely that recruits would be
sought from it in war.”
It should be a condition that
it maintains full production and
does not allow itself to continue
to be made the plaything of the
country’s enemies, which it is at
present —it is so seized of the
urgency of the country’s need
for coal that it is just now pre-
paring to hasten off for three
weeks’ holiday, it hopes with an
increase pro rata to the basic-
wage increase, as a reward for
a year which has been little
credit to it as a whole, and after
its southern N. S. Wales districts
have again shown their gratitude
for living under the best coal-
workers’ conditions in the world
by electing another lot of Com-
munist leaders.
The plan will apply, as fore-
shadowed some time ago, to
youths who turn 18 between
November 1, 1950, and March
31 next year. About 30,000
youths will be affected by the
call-ups.
Training Periods
Training will be with existing
organised units of the forces,
and the essence of the plan to
be applied is that it shall provide
for continuous periods of ser-
vice sufficiently long to enable
not only basic training to be
given but also to allow an in-
troduction to more specialised
forms of service, besides giving
the basic training units much
more overall experience than
they otherwise would get.
This is represented by 176
days in camp in five years,
divided as follows:
R.A.N. men will do 124 days
continuous service the first year,
with 13 days refresher course in
each of the next succeeding
four years.
In the Army the basic first-
year term will be 98 days con-
tinuous service, with 14 days
“They told me to report as a runner, sir.”
camp and 12 days of evening
parades and bivouacs in each of
the next three years.
The R.A.A.F. trainees will
take their 176 days out in a
solid lump in one year.
All this is going to produce
at least 13,500 trainees in the
first year after the scheme be-
gins to operate, with progressive
increases in the years following.
In the R.A.N. trainees will be
70 days at sea in a frigate, and,
“it is hoped” by Mr. Francis,
a couple of minesweepers, and
the remaining 54 days ashore.
And in the subsequent'four years
they may be either at sea or on
shore. Wages in the R.A.N., as in
the Army, will be 12s. 6d. a day.
The plans do not make even
a dint in the urgent needs of the
defence situation, but it seems
that the country has drifted so
much under Socialism that it is
impossible to do better, though
somebody who approached it
with imagination and not with
the timidity of Mr. Holt and his
fellow-Service Ministers might
stir public opinion.
Conserving Manpower
The best angle from which to
approach both voluntary service
and compulsory service is the
schools, if the co-operation of
the State Governments could be
obtained; but some States have
their teaching staffs so riddled
with Communists and their
Ministries so riddled with people
who are willing to buy votes at
the expense of the safety of the
country that they probably
would not co-operate.
It is, of course, valid to argue
that manpower must be con-
served in industries which affect
defence. But it is also valid to
argue that in those industries
men, if they expect to be
exempt from service, should do
their part by not going slow and
going on strike.
Somebody might try to get it
into the heads of unionists that
if strikes were banned and if
everybody would work at the
pace normal before World War
II and for an hour a day longer
than at present labor shortages
would go close to disappearing.
However, the attitude of the
so-called “Labor” movement ap-
pears to be that if anything hap-
pens which threatens this coun-
try the Americans and the
British and the Canadians and
perhaps the Indians and the
Japanese, whom we won’t allow
into the country normally, will
do our fighting for us, leaving
us free to act on the shameful
slogan so generally accepted
accepted from the hands of Mr,
Ernie Thornton during the last
hostilities that “war is the
workers’ opportunity”—the best
time to strike for higher wages
and better conditions because
the employer is compelled to
give way then.
Or, of course, leave the coun-
try defenceless and its women
and children at the mercy of an
invader.
Assault in Korea.
“Ek Dum”; The lull in
North Korea which became
almost a standstill during the
early part of the week was
attributed to negotiations or
impending negotiations with the
Communist Chinese delegation
to U.N.O. which is there to dis-
cuss the situation.
Actually it was due to General
MacArthur’s deployment of
100,000-odd troops for a “final
drive,” by which he hoped to
reach the Yalu River before
Christmas, after which he an-
nounced that the bulk of the
troops involved would be able
to go home. The drive was
launched on a 60-mile front on
November 23, and at first made
great progress. But by Novem-
ber 26 it had run into the main
Chinese-North Korean defences,
and in the Pakchong area the
South Koreans had been forced
to retreat.
The way to the Yalu promises
to be hard, and there will be
bitter fighting before the river is
reached. The length of U.N.O.
communications and the state of
the weather make the operation
comparable with the largest
drives in North Africa in World
War 11.
Australians in Reserve
Towards the end of the lull
came the withdrawal of the Aus-
tralian battalion, which has been
fighting in difficult country and
in bitter cold. They have been
most concerned in patrol actions
in the last weeks of their opera-
tions, the main strain being pro-
duced rather by the condition of
the weather and of their lines
of communication, which have
been sketchy as a result of the
confusion in their sector fol-
lowing the intrusion of the
Chinese into what had been
regarded as a tail-end of a
mopping-up operation.
Sensational reports of
casualties do not seem to have
been justified by the figures. Up
to November 23 the official
estimate was 38 killed and 120
wounded, some of whom had
been able to return to their
units. About half the deaths
were suffered in the one fight


A short selection from all the classics in
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY
Biography
Blake (William), Life. A. Gilchrist (971)
Burney (Fanny), Diary. Selection (960)
Byron’s Letters (931)
Cellini (Benvenuto), Autobiography (31)
Evelyn’s (John) Diary. 2 vols. (220-1)
Franklin (Benjamin), Autobiography (316)
Gibbon (Edward), Autobiography (511)
Hudson (W. H.), Far Away and Long Ago.
Autobiography of his youth (956)
Johnson (Dr. S.), Life. Boswell. 2 vols.
(1-2)
Keats, Life and Letters. Lord Houghton
(801)
Pepys’s Diary. Braybrooke’s ed. 2 vols.
(53—4)
Rousseau, Confessions of. 2 vols. (859-60)
Swift’s Journal to Stella (757)
Classical
Aristophanes’ Comedies. 2 vols. (344,516)
Euripides’ Plays. 2 vols, (63, 271)
Homer’s Iliad. Lord Derby’s trans. (453)
~ Odyssey. Cowper’s trans. (454)
Marcus Aurelius’ Meditations (9)
Ovid: Selected Works (955)
Plato’s Republic. Trans, with Intro, by
A. D. Lmdsay (64)
Sophocles’ Dramas (114)
Thucydides’ Peloponnesian War (455)
Virgil’s Aneid. Faurfax-Taylor’s trans. (161)
Essays Sc Belles-Lettres
Bacon’s Essays (1-0)
Belloc’s (H.) Stories, Essays, etc. (948)
Carlyle’s Sartor Resartus and Heroes and
Hero Worship (278)
Chesterton’s (G. K.) Stories, Essays, and
Poems (913) .
Coleridge’s Biographia Literana (11)
Hazhtt’s On the English Comic Writers (411)
Hudson’s (W. H.) A Shepherd’s Life (926)
Lamb’s Essays of Elia (14)
Lawrence’s (D. H.) Stories, Essays (958)
Macaulay’s Essays. 2 vols. (225—6)
Milton’s Areopagitica, etc. (795)
Montaigne’s Essays. Flono s trans. 3
vols. (440—2)
Rousseau’s fimile, or Education (518)
Ruskin’s Sesame and Lilies, etc, (219)
Spectator, The. By Addison, Steele, and
others. 4 vols. (164-7)
Sterne’s Sentimental Journey, etc. (796)
Swift’s Tale of a Tub, The Battle of the
Books, etc. (347) .
Swinnerton’s (Frank) The Georgian Liter-
ary Scene (943)
Thackeray’s (W. M.) The English Hum-
orists, etc. (610)
Thoreau’s Walden (281)
Walton’s Compleat Angler (70)
Fiction
Ainsworth’s (Harrison) Old St. Paul’s (522)
Austen’s (Jane) Emma (24)
„ Mansfield Park (23)
„ Northanger Abbey and Persuasion
„ Sense and Sensibility (21) [(25)
Balzac’s Eugenie Grandet (169)
„ Old Goriot (170)
„ Ursule Mirouet (733)
Bennett’s (A.) The Old Wives Tale (919)
Blackmore’s (R. D.) Loma Doone (304)
Sorrow’s Lavengro (119)
Bronte’s (Charlotte) Jane Eyre (287)
(Emily) Wuthenng Heights (243)
Butler’s (Samuel) Erewhon and Erewhon
Revisited (881)
„ The Way of All Flesh (895)
Collins’s (Wilkie) Woman in White (464)
„ The Moonstone (979)
Conrad’s Lord Jim (925)
„ Nigger of the ‘Narcissus,’ Typhoon,
and The Shadow Line (980)
Dana’s Two Years before the Mast (588)
Defoe’s Moll Flanders (837)
„ Robinson Crusoe (59)
Dickens’s (Charles) Bamaby Rudge (76)
„ David CopperfieM (242)
„ Great Expectations (234)
„ Martin Chuzzlewit (241)
„ Nicholas Nickleby (238)
„ Oliver Twist (233)
Pickwick Papers (235)
Tale of Two Cities (102)
Disraeli’s Coningsby (535)
and Pun:
Dostoevsky’s Crime and Punishment (501)
„ The Brothers Karamazov, 2v. (802-3)
Dumas’s Count of Monte Cristo, 2 v. (393-4)
„ The Three Musketeers (81)
Eliot’s (George) Middlemarch. 2 v. (854-5)
„ Mill on the Floss (325)
„ Romola (231)
English Short Stories. Anthology (743)
Fenimore Cooper’s The Prairie (172)
Fielding’s Tom Jones. 2 vols. (355-6)
Flaubert’s Madame Bovary (808)
~ Sentimental Education (969)
Forster’s (E. M.) A Passage to India (972)
France’s (Anatole)At the Sign of the Reine
Pddauque and The Revolt of the Angels
(967)
Galsworthy’s The Country House (917)
Gaskell’s (Mrs.) Cranford (83)
Gogol’s (Nicol) Dead Souls (726)
Goldsmith’s Vicar of Wakefield (295)
Goncharov’s Oblomov (878)
Grossmith’s Diary of a Nobody (963)
Hugo’s Les Mis6rables. 2 vols. (363-4)
James’s (Henry) The Turn of the Screw
and The Aspem Papers (912)
„ The Ambassadors (987)
Jefferies’s (Richard) After London and
Amaryllis at the Fair (951)
Lawrence’s (D. H.) White Peacock (914)
Lytton’s Last Days of Pompeii (80)
Mann’s (Thos.) Stories and Episodes (962)
Marryat’s Mr. Midshipman Easy (82)
Maugham’s (Somerset) Cakes and Ale (932)
Maupassant’s Short Stories (907)
Melville’s (Herman) Moby Dick (179)
„ Typee (180)
Modem Short Stones. Anthology (954)
Mulock’s John Halifax, Gentleman (123)
Poe’s Tales of Mystery & Imagination (336)
Priestley’s Angel Pavement (938)
Reade’s The Cloister and the Hearth (29)
Richardson’s Pamela. 2 vols. (683-4)
„ Clarissa. 4 vols. (882-5)
Scott’s Heart of Midlothian, The (134)
„ Ivanhoe (16)
~ Kenilworth (135)
„ Old Mortality (137)
„ Quentin Durward (140)
Smollett’s Humphry Clinker (975)
„ Roderick Random (790)
Somerville and Ross: Experiences of an
Irish R.M. (978)
Stendhal’s Scarlet and Black. Trans, by
C. K. Scott Moncrieff. 2 vols. (945-6)
Sterne’s Tristram Shandy (617)
Stevenson’s Dr. Jekyll and Aar. Hyde and
The Merry Men, etc. (767)
~ Treasure Island & Kidnapped (763)
Swift’s Gulliver’s Travels. Unabridged (60)
Thackeray’s Esmond (73)
„ Pendennis. 2 vols. (425-6)
„ Vanity Fair (298)
Trollope’s The Small House at AUington
„ The Warden (182) [(361)
Turgenev’s Fathers and Sons (742)
~ Liza (or a Nest of Nobles) (677)
„ Smoke (988)
Twain’s (Mark) Tom Sawyer and Huckle-
berry Finn (976) .
Voltaire’s Candida and Other Tales (936)
Wells’s (H. G.) The Time Machine and
The Wheels of Chance (915)
Ann Veronica (977)
Woolf’s (Virginia) To the Lighthouse (949)
Zola’s (fimile) Germinal (897)
2vols. (31-2)
Carlyle’s French Revolution.
Chesterton’s (Cecil) History of the Umted
States. Ed. by Prof. D. W. Brogan (965)
Green’s Short History of the English People.
With an Appendix. 2 vols. (727-8)
Hallam’s (Henry) Constitutional History
of England. 3 vols. (621—3)
Milmams History of the Jews. 2v. (377-8)
Prescott’s Conquest of Mexico. 2v. (397-8)
Philosophy Sl Theology
A’Kempis’ Imitation of Christ (484)
Aquinas, Thomas: Selected Writings (953)
Browne’s Religio Medici, etc. (92)
Burton’s (Robert) Anatomy of Melancholy.
3 vols. (886-8)
Chinese Philosophy in Classical Times (973)
Ellis’s (Havelock) Selected Essays (930)
Hindu Scriptures. Ed. Dr. N. Macnicol (944)
James’s (Wm.) Papers on Philosophy (739)
Kant’s Critique of Pure Reason (909)
King Edward VI. Ist and 2nd Prayer Books
(448)
Koran, The. Rodwell’s trans. (380)
Locke’s Human Understanding (984)
Mill’s Utilitarianism, Liberty, etc. (482)
Nietzsche’s Thus Spake Zarathustra (892)
Paine’s (Tom) Rights of Man (718)
Pascal’s Pens6es. Intro. T. S. Eliot (874)
Renan’s Life of Jesus (805)
Rousseau’s The Social Contract, etc. (660)
St. Augustine’s Confessions (200)
~ The City of God. Ed. by Dr.
R. V. G. Tasker. 2 vols. (982-3)
St. Francis: The Little Flowers, etc. (485)
Poetry Sc Drama
Arnold’s (Matthew) Poems (334)
Beaumont and Fletcher, Select Plays (506)
Blake’s Poems and Prophecies (792)
Browning’s Poems, 1833-44. 4 vols. (41,
42, 502, 946)
Bums’s Poems and Songs (94)
Byron’s Poetical Works. 3 vols. (486-8)
Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales (307)
Coleridge, Golden Book of (43)
Dante’s Divine Comedy (308)
Donne’s Poems (867)
Eighteenth-Century Plays (818)
Everyman and other Interludes, including
eight Miracle Plays (381)
Goethe’s Faust. Parts I and II (335)
Golden Book of Modem Eng. Poetry (921)
Goldsmith’s Poems and Plays (415)
Gray’s Poems and Letters (628)
Heine: Prose and Poetry (911)
Ibsen’s Ghosts, The Warriors at Helge-
land, and An Enemy of the People
~ Peer Gynt (747) [(552)
„ A Doll’s House, The Wild Duck,
and The Lady from the Sea (494)
„ The Pretenders, Pillars of Society,
and Rosmersholm (659)
International Modem Plays. By Strind-
berg, Hauptmann, Capek, Cocteau,
Chiareffi (989)
Jonson’s (Ben) Plays. 2 vols. (489-90)
Keats’s Poems (101)
Longfellow’s Poems (382)
Milton’s Poems (384)
Modern Plays. By Maugham, Sheriff,
Milne, Coward, and Bennett (942)
Moliere’s Comedies. 2 vols. (830-1)
Palgrave’s Golden Treasury. Enlarged (96)
Poems of our Time, 1900-42 (981)
Poe’s (E. A.) Poems and Essays (791)
Restoration Plays, A Volume of (604)
Shakespeare’s Comedies (153)
„ Historical Plays and Sonnets (154)
„ Tragedies (155)
Spenser’s Faerie Queene. 2 vols. (443-4)
Swinburne’s Poems and Prose (961)
Synge’s (J. M.) Plays, Poems, etc. (968)
Tchekhov’s Plays and Stories (941)
Whitman’s (Walt) Leaves of Grass (573)
Wilde’s (O.) Plays, Prose, and Poems (858)
Wordsworth’s Shorter Poems (203)
Longer Poems (311)
Reference
Biographical Diet, of Eng. Literature (449)
Everyman’s English Dictionary (776)
Roger’s Thesaurus of English Words and
Phrases. 2 vols. (630-1)
Smith’s Smaller Classical Dictionary (495)
Romance
Boccaccio’s Decameron. 2 vols. (845-6)
Bunyan’s Pilgrim’s Progress (204)
Cervantes’ Don Quixote. Motteaux’s trans.
2 vols. (385-6)
Mabinogion, The, new trans. (97)
Malory’s Le Morte d’Arthur. 2 vols. (45-6)
Rabelais’ Gargantua and Pantagruel. 2
vols. (826-7)
Science 6L Sociology
Darwin’s The Origin of Species (811)
Eddington’s (Sir Arthur) The Nature of
the Physical World (922)
Euclid: the Elements of. Todhunter (891)
Marx’s (Karl) Capital. Trans, by Eden and
Cedar Paul, 2 vols. (848-9)
Smith’s (Adam) The Wealth of Nations.
2 vols. (412-13)
White’s Selborne. Ed. R. M, Lockley (48)
Travel Sl Topography
Sorrow’s The Bible in Spain (151)
Boswell’s Tour in the Hebrides with Dr.
Johnson (387)
Cobbett’s Rural Rides. 2 vols. (638-9)
Cook’s Voyages of Discovery (99)
Defoe’s Tour through England and Wales.
2 vols. (820-1)
Kinglake’s Eothen (337)
Polo’s (Marco) Travels (306)
Stow’s Survey of London (589)
For Roys Sl Girls
Alcott’s Little Women & Good Wives (248)
Andersen’s Fairy Tales (4)
Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland, Through
the Looking-Glass, etc. (836)
Collodi’s Pinocchio (538)
Hughes’s Tom Brown’s Schooldays (58)
Jefferies’s Bevis, the Story of a Boy (850)
.ear (and Others): Book of Nonsense (806)
Poetry Book for Boys and Girls (894)
Stowe’s Uncle Tom’s Cabin (371)
Swiss Family Robinson (430)
d
The greatest range of the great books of the world in a uniform, inexpensive series
989 volumes issued so far, over £OO widely available to-day . Sales 38 million volumes
All works unabridged unless otherwise stated. Introductions, etc. by well-known writers
Volumes of 2£o to 1,000 pages each. Clear printing, cloth binding, lettered in gold
6/6
per I vol.
Full lists of
i
is Library arejreely available
Order from jour
:
. . *■
PUBLISHERS; J. M. DENT AND SONS LTD. ALDINE HOUSE BEDFORD ST. LONDON W.C.2
Australia: Georgian House ?ty. Ltd, 431 Bourke Street Melbourne
at the Chongchon River cross-
ing, the fiercest engagement in
which the battalion has been
engaged.
Communist Sabotage
The respite in reserve will give
the authorities a chance to equip
the men with winter-wear, which
is an urgent matter, and remedy
the complaints of shortages of
food and clothing generally.
This will not be done if the
Australian Communists have
their way, and there is some
reason to believe that the
Sydney wharflaborers’ strike,
organised by a body whose
Communist general - secretary
has this week been in Warsaw
conferring with the enemies of
the country, is at least partly for
that purpose.
It has held up some hundreds
of reinforcements and thousands
of tons of supplies which were
due to be sent in the Tai Yuan,
Changsha and Yunnan —this
apart from the Maonland con-
tingent, whose transport is
frozen by the strike.
If the Australians have cause
for complaint they are at least
no worse off than the rest of the
British 27th Brigade, with which
they have been operating under
Brigadier Coad. As far back as
November 16, according to the
“Times,” “a spokesman for Sir
Horace Robertson, commander-
in-chief of the U.K., Australian
and N.Z, forces in Korea
officially made public the dis-
tressing circumstances in which
the Ist Battalion Middlesex
Regiment and the Argyll and
Sutherland Highlanders found
themselves,” calling for “urgent
remedial measures.”
British Casualties
It seems that since it had been
intended to return the British
part of the brigade to Hong
Kong so soon as the 29th
Brigade (now in North Korea)
arrived to replace them they,
like the Australians, had not
been provided with winter cloth-
ing, and were receiving “bits
and pieces” to tide them over.
British casualties in the two
battalions were given by Mr.
Shinwell in the House of
Commons on November 16 as
51 killed and 158 wounded and
five missing. He said that ‘all
reports spoke in glowing terms
of the high morale, splendid
bearing and battle efficiency of
the Commonwealth forces.”
Turmoil in Egypt.
“Ek Dum”: Mr. Menzies is
to visit Britain and intermediate
Commonwealth countries in
January, primarily for a confer-
ence in London on defence.
It is a welcome move if it will
bring about unity of thought and
effort and concert a programme
for a common facing of the
Communist danger.
New danger-signals go up in
Europe and the Middle East
almost every day, the latest aris-
ing in Egypt, where, amid a
fury of hate for the British
which has made it necessary for
embassies to be guarded and
British subjects to keep well out
of sight, the Government de-
cided to abrogate the Anglo-
Egyptian Treaty of 1936 and
to insist on the removal of
British troops guarding the Suez
Canal from Egypt, and the tak-
ing - over of the whole of
the Nile Valley by the ceding
of the Sudan to the Egyptian
Crown.
The Egyptian plan aims at a
deliberate breach of agreement,
since the treaty runs till Decem-
ber 22, 1956, and cannot be de-
nounced by either party. There
is provision for revision after
1956 on the request of either
party, along with a clause agree-
ing that any revision will
embody continuance of the
alliance between the two
countries.
The situation is more difficult,
because the British Labor Gov-
ernment has become the prey of
a section of its followers large
enough to compel it to suspend
the sending of the latest Cen-
turion tanks and jet-fighters to
Egypt while the treaty is being
challenged.
Even the patience of its own
followers is becoming exhausted
with a Government which has
enabled the Russians to build
the M.I.G. 15, a jet-fighter
superior to the American Shoot-
ing Stars on Korean experience,
by making it a present of the
secrets of the Rolls-Royce Nene
engine.


family Dish&s-
•CT:
The AGA Roasting Oven
takes a 20-lb. turkey with
ease . . and cooks it to juicy
perfection. Joints shrink
scarcely at all! No regulation
of temperature is needed.
And no basting of the meat.
fd
fd
f
Grills are extra-rapid... and
what sizzling, succulent grills
they are! An AGA cooker
gives life-long service and
guaranteed fuel economy.
' ' /
ci:
You never strike a match or
turn a switch with AGA.
And cooking is cleaner,
cooler ... easy and effortless
Cakes, buns, and bread are
delicious; so light in texture,
and so nicely risen.
* 1
With AGA you can dry your
own fruit and bottle it and
need no special thermome-
ters nor sterilizing equip-
ment. See AGA in action!
by
the
COOKER
J&Sm**~. \
■■n, nm&M"w
■
i
SEE A DEMONSTRATION OF THE AMAZING 'AGA*
or write for full particulors to:—
LEVIN & CO. LTD. 45 king street, Sydney
u O ST . R . E n E MELBOURNE. 113 GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE. Cnr.
STS., BRISBANE. Tasmanian Agents: A. G. WEBSTER
& SONS LTD., HOBART. W.A. Agents: MALLOCH BROS. LTD., PERTH.
Al/160
the world over, appreciate
the compliment they are paid when
a host serves Cointreau . . . Not
only does an “Occasion”
call for Cointreau but
Cointreau makes it
one ... Its quiet
ecstasy must be sipped
to be believed.
Limited
supplies of
this old
French trea-
sure are now
available.
||V V
df
h
Agents tor Australia:
McLaughlin & co. pty. ltd., Sydney
Distributors:
Victoria: Stephen King Pty. Ltd.,
Taylor Ferguson & Co. Pty. Ltd.
South Austroiio: George Wills & Co. Ltd.
Western Australia: Brown & Dureau Ltd.
C 1.82
UNCABLED
SECURITY: THE COST.
Announced costs of some of
the defence of the West in
Europe:
Great Britain: £3,400,000,000,
or 10 per cent, of the national
income, to be spent on national
defence in the next three years.
France: £2,000,000,000, over
and above the pres e n t
£500,000,000 a year, to be spent
on national defence in the next
three years. Belgium: defence
expenditure is to be increased
by a little under £36,000,000,
bringing the total for this year
to about £96,500,000.
Noting these looming costs,
London “Spectator” editorially
comments;
“These figures and all that
they portend come near to filling
the whole horizon. They reflect
a situation that is getting in-
creasingly desperate, not merely
in its financial but in its moral
aspect.
“They mean that throughout
Western Europe, and in a less
degree in the United States,
progress towards social and
economic recovery, slow and
painful at the best, must be
checked, if not actually halted,
through the diversion of strictly
limited resources to the de-
plorable and unproductive pro-
vision of costly defences against
a war that may never come.
But there is at least an even
chance that it may come.”
And, “What all this means is
that Russia has some prospect
of gaining many of the ends of
war without incurring the risk
of war. Assuming, as it is im-
possible not to assume, that she
desires ill to all Western Europe,
she can achieve a great deal of
that ill by promoting alarm.
compelling the diversion of
national resources from produc-
tive to unproductive purposes,
bringing the maintenance of the
standard of living into question,
and so creating the conditions in
which a subversive Communism
best flourishes.
“What is the answer to that?
The plain fact is that there is
none. Russia may have no in-
tention of open war at all. She
may be perfectly satisfied with
doing so much harm to the West
without it. But no one who
cares for the survival of civilisa-
tion could possibly count on
that.”
Beating the Veto.
Commenting on the Acheson
plan called “United Action for
Peace” (which was overwhelm-
ingly adopted, and which
amounts to, if not technical, at
any rate virtual, U.N.O. reform),
London “Economist” makes
two clarifying points:
(1) The plan is not a substi-
tute for the veto. This, as
originally conceived by several
great Powers besides the Soviet
Union, was designed to give any
one of the Big Five State-
members the right to say that it
was not automatically prepared
to act in fulfilment of the
Security Council’s compulsory
powers. It is wilful misconcep-
tion of this sensible purpose that
has transformed it from a con-
tracting-out system into a system
for preventing any action what-
soever.
(2) The “United Action” plan
does not and cannot transfer the
Security Council’s powers of
compulsion to a two-thirds
majority of the Assembly. The
Assembly can only recommend
and must rely on a powerful
consensus of national opinions
to execute its recommendations.
Presumably, if these are widely
viewed as unenforceable (as they
were in the case of its recom-
mendation to internationalise
lerusalem), they will simply be
left in abeyance. “A vote for
the Acheson plan, with its de-
pendence (whenever the Security
Council has reached an impasse)
upon a two-thirds majority
which may consist entirely of
small States, therefore exposes
the Assembly to the risk of an
indignity—to that of voting im-
potently for some worthy plan
that cannot be executed. But in
the impasse to which the
Russians have reduced the
Security Council, it offers the
optimum chance of widespread
co - operation to stop an
aggressor. Its best point is that
it provides a loophole for the
exercise of commonsense.”
Nice Folk, Koreans!
By way of addition to several
other on-the-spot reports of
South Korean “reprisal”
methods already given here, a
few observations from a lengthy
account by a London “Times”
special correspondent, referring
to jail “interrogations” of sus-
pects by South Korean police;
“Interrogation is a neat word,
like liquidation. In this case it
meant beatings with rifle-butts
and bamboo sticks and the in-
sertion of splinters under finger-
nails. No attempt was made to
hide these methods; in fact, the
policemen concerned worked
harder to prove their diligence
and to ensure that no aspect of
their work was overlooked.
During that morning a rifle-butt
was shattered on the back of one
prisoner, and two women, one
suckling a baby, were also
interrogated.
“The mother confessed, to have
joined the Communist party a
month before, and two men
denied any sympathy or formal
affiliation, but they were beaten
into insensibility. A police
sergeant, who spoke English,
which he probably learned in a
mission school, tolerably well,
said that the interrogation would
proceed when they regained
consciousness. They may have
been Communists, but they were
accused by individuals, and
there were no witnesses. Ob-
viously it was impossible to de-
cide fairly whether they were
Communists or victims of malice
or revenge.
“The scene described has
been, and is still being, repeated
throughout Korea. An officer
of a United Nations investiga-
tion team said that reprisals
[that is, by Koreans] are as
numerous as reports of Com-
munist atrocities.”
Israel Risks It.
Finding much to admire in the
spirit animating Israel’s immi-
gration open-door (it amounts to
being held wide to any Jew
from anywhere), a London
“Daily Express” correspondent
speaks of it as “a strangely mov-
ing experience, this gathering-in
of the Jewish people from all
parts of the world, where they
have been scattered by events
and biblical promise.”
It is really “an act of faith”;
but the correspondent (report-
ing from Tel Aviv) also notes the
riskiness of it —sufficiently indi-
cated by his sensation headline:
“Israel Speeds to Bankruptcy.”
He sees it as “a direct, de-
liberate and downright chal-
lenge to the orthodoxy of eco-
nomics.” But “Israel does not
care. The drain of Israel’s trea-
sure goes on. An immigrant
costs £6OO from the time he
arrives in the homeland until he
becomes an economic, self-sup-
porting unit.....
“The shadow of a new war
does not frighten Israel so much
as the possibility of Jews being
trapped in Europe and Arab
lands. The march of events
makes rescue imperative, and
Israel is ready to strain economy
to bring them at all costs.
“But can Israel do this? All
she asks of time is three years.
Then in 1953 she believes her
population can be more or less
stabilised at about 3,500,000
souls.”
Meanwhile, “The Israeli gets
four ounces of meat a week. He
cannot take his ration in veal or
London “Daily Mail."
NOT-SO-MERRY-GO-ROUND.
[ a mb. There is not any veal or
lamb. It is just meat. There is
no butter at all. There is just
over 21b. of sugar a month,
Clothing coupons are enough for
one pair of shoes a year. A
suit would take 2} years’ cou-
pons. Petrol is ss. 6d. a gallon,
Scotch £ll a bottle. What is to
prop up this crazy economy, de-
termined to hurtle on its way
until it hits the buffers?
“The Arab States believe that
the time will come when Israel
must seek more living room.
They believe this State cannot
possibly support a population of
3.500.000 in any circumstances.
“Israel disagrees. She believes
the only obstacle in the way of
feeding such a population is
£2OO million to be spent in irri-
gation. The soil is fertile enough
if scientifically farmed, and the
850.000 acres now under culti-
vation could be expanded to a
million and a quarter. On this
3,500,000 Israelis could raise
cattle for meat three times a
week. There would be fruit,
vegetables and potatoes enough
and to spare for export. Olive
groves now being replanted
would solve the problem of fats,
“Until these things come to
pass the strain on the country’s
economy is enormous. But Israel
hopes—more, she demands —
that American Jewry keeps faith
with the ideal of Israel. It is


Christmas Presents
SPORTS SHIRTS
for casual wear
Genuine Fuji Silk Shirts with new long,
pointed, low-setting collar attached. One
open pocket, full sleeves. Collar sizes
14-17*, 52/6.
With American two-way collar, two
pockets with flaps. Invisible stitching
gives a better-made appearance. Half-
sleeves. S.M. to X. 0.5., 43/6.
“Country Club” sports shirts for casual
wear, smartly fitting, comfortable collars,
well shaped shoulders, free action back.
S.M. to X.O;S. In Blue, Silver Grey,
Beige, Fawn, Tan, Fairway Green, San-
dune. Cream, White. Half-sleeves, 41/6.
Full sleeves, 46/6.
Similar in crease-resisting rayon half-
sleeves, 24/6. Colours: Blue, Grey,
Cream, Fawn, Chocolate.
ff %
W*~r
SB
II
V
m
NYLON HOSIERY
Morley’s English sheer Nylons, new shades, 13/-.
“Prestige” fine gauge sheer Nylons, newest colours,
14/3. “Sutex” fine Nylon hose, sheer, 13/11, 14/3.
Holeproof “Queen of Hearts” sheer Nylons, 13/6.
“Sutex” pure silk luxury crepe, light and medium
shades, 15/11.
Men’s fancy pure wool half-hose, assorted shades
and designs, 8/8, 9/1.
“Viyella” half-hose, unshrinkable. Grey, Fawn,
Blue and Brown, 8/8.
FITTED TOILET CASES
The ideal gift for men who travel. In
fine quality leather with zip fastener.
Chromium plated fittings, ebony
backed brushes, unbreakable mirror,
£5/18/-, £7/5/-.
CIGARETTE LIGHTERS
Dunhill Cigarette Lighters,
sports type, with wind
shield, 97/6, 117/6. Dun-
hill Broadway Lighters for
ladies or gents, £7/17/6.
LADIES 1 HANDKERCHIEFS
Embroidered handkerchief of pure linen in presentation
folders of half-dozen, 17/6, 19/6, 21/-. In quarter-dozen
folders, 9/6, 10/6, 11/6. Single Handkerchiefs, 2/3 to 3/9.
d
Men's Handkerchiefs
“Pyramid” in coloured bor-
ders and all-over patterns, 3/3.
Initialled “Pyramid” handker-
chiefs with blue or white initial.
All letters except I, O, U, Q,
X, Y, Z, 3/6. “Nile” handker-
chiefs, fancy colours, 2/10.
Tobacco Pouches
English Roll tobacco
pouches in natural shade
genuine hogskin, 70/-. Also
in Navy Persian calf, 67/-.
Kangaroo skin wallet
pouches, 25/-. Similar to
above, with gold disc, 32/6.
English-made
BRIAR PIPES
Dunhill, 80/-. Sasieni,
56/-. Comoy “Grand
Slam” 49/3. Comoy
“Tradition,” 44/3. L.
and Co., 66/3. Silver
Luck, 18 /6. Royal
Crest, 12/6.
PEAPES PTY. LTD.
285 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
{Opposite Hunter Street )
Address Mail Orders to Box 165, G.P.0., Sydney
plainly and bluntly said Ameri-
can Jewry has not yet begun to
make sacrifices. Worse than that,
dollar contributions to this un-
official ‘Marshall Aid’ are falling.
There has been a drop of
£500,000 this year. American
Jewry must send £357-million-
worth of dollars in the next three
years ... or else.
“When Israel’s war with the
Arab States was on they cheered
themselves with the thought
that they had a secret weapon
called ‘No choice.’ Israel be-
lieves today that she has no
choice but to go on—some say
recklessly.”
Africa’s South-West.
Objecting strongly to U.N.O.
interference in what they regard
as a purely domestic issue, South
Africans have reacted as any
other people would in the cir-
cumstances —by ignoring the
barrage of ukases and homilies
against incorporating South-
West Africa in the Union.
And, admits a “Manchester
Guardian” correspondent, in an
article otherwise very critical of
South African policy, in this
dispute the South Africans have
a case:
“South - West Africa is
geographically contiguous to the
Union. The mandate itself
provides that it is to be adminis-
tered as ‘an integral part of the
Union.’ It is only by the
accidents of history that it did
not become part of the old Cape
Colony in 1884. Had General
Smuts quietly annexed it during
the Second World War, after the
winding-up of the League of
Nations, he would have done no
more —indeed a good deal less
—than was .done by the
U.S.S.R. when it absorbed the
independent States of Estonia,
Lithuania and Latvia.
“South Africans look with
considerable alarm on the affairs
of South-West Africa being de-
bated by bodies in which Soviet
Russia has representation. South
Africans feel, and probably
correctly, that those who are
making so much of the South-
West Africa issue are not so
much interested in the principles
of mandates and international
obligations as anxious to find a
stick with which to beat South
Africa’s racial policies.”
One thing about which there's
no question is that South Africa
is thoroughly fed-up not only
with busybody U.N.O. attempts
at interference, but also with
patronising criticism, of which
it’s had a surfeit from British
quarters. On it, the South
African Prime Minister, Dr.
Malan, has been very blunt,
stating in a recent speech:
“I want to remind people
overseas in general who attack
us —who have been Ministers
in a few cases and members of
Parliament —that they ought to
know better. I would remind
them that South Africa is not a
British colony. It does not be-
come them to criticise another
country which is free and inde-
pendent in the fullest sense of
the word. In South Africa we
manage our own affairs. We
do not remark on the sort of
Government which the British
people elect, and it is not for
people in England to remark on
the Government chosen by the
people of South Africa.
“Even the Prime Minister of
Southern Rhodesia on a visit to
England recently was criticised
on Rhodesian color policy. He
said just what I would have said,
‘You are running the risk of
driving Rhodesia and England
apart. If you want to maintain
friendly relations you must stop
that sort of criticism.’ ”
Students in Blinkers.
Describing a present - day
Russian University as a place
“where the student is amply pro-
tected from the democratic error
of pursuing knowledge for its
own sake,” British Labor leader
Herbert Morrison gave Cam-
bridge University Labor Club
some details of Soviet uni. life,
Every six months during the
university course of five years,
he said, there was an examina-
tion. If the student failed in any
of these examinations he for-
feited his stipend and usually
went down from the university.
Whatever other subjects he was
studying he could not graduate
without passing three compul-
sory examinations Marxism-
Leninism, physical training and
military training:
“It must be a strange and
humiliating experience for an in-
telligent young man to grow up
in this way, learning to keep his
brain in blinkers and to avoid
like the plague a different set of
dangerous thoughts every few
years. The Russian student
knows well enough that he is
being spied upon from morning
to night, and, indeed, organised
spying is quite openly and
shamelessly done.”
One “final and ingenious de-
vice” in the Soviet university
arrangements, he added, was that
the successful student who had
passed his final examination was
summoned to a posting commis-
sion, which assigned him to his
post in the Soviet economy in
any part of the country, regard-
less of his own tastes or conveni-
ence. Only after taking up the
post allotted to him in this
arbitrary way did the student
receive his diploma.
Germans’ Russia.
Assessed in “Yorkshire Post”
comment;
“German feelings towards
Russia tend to fluctuate. The
Germans are apt to see in the
Russians the potential (and
rather backward) partners in a
gigantic economic association.
At other times the Germans
tend to see in the Russians so
many eastern barbarians, to be
subjugated, colonised and, if
possible, civilised.
“There can be no question
that in the Republic, as well as
in the Eastern zone (so far as it
is not nuifibed by the opium of
propaganda), the second of these
views is dominant today. Any
Government trying to do a deal
with Russia would have to
struggle with an overpowering
weight of public opinion.”
Gulp—It’s Free.
“Two-and-a-half-million gal-
lons of physio poured down
British throats in 1949.”
Thus London “News Chron-
icle,” referring to figures pub-
lished by the chief pharmacist of
Britain’s Ministry of Health.
On the same nostrum theme,
London “Daily Express” quotes
the figures as showing that for
everyone in England and Wales,
from babes-in-arms to cen-
tenarians, an average of five
prescriptions per head were
made up by chemists, which
works out at roughly one pre-
scription for every single per-
son in the country in every 10
weeks
It quotes the “Medical Press,”
“It may not be too facetious to
suppose that every quarter we
must have a prescription to en-
able us to face our quarterly
bills, with a bottle in reserve for
emergencies,” and adds that
70,000,000 bottles of mixtures
were prescribed.
The Health Ministry pharma-
cist having stated that he had
seen in prescriptions quarts of
mixtures which were never de-
signed to be kept for more than
a few days, and that in these
visible signs of deterioration
would soon be evident, and the
greater proportion of the mix-
ture would have to be discarded,
the medical journal asked
“Where does it all go?” Men-
tioning that the responsible
Minister, Mr. Bevan, had joked
that the greater part went down
the kitchen sink, it commented:
“And his chief pharmacist has
shown that the kitchen sink was
probably the only safe receptacle
for at least a certain amount of
it.”
To which can be added some
heartfelt remarks by the South
Yorkshire divisional medical
officer, Dr. John Watt:
“Headache tablets, dyspepsia
tablets, and constipation, pUls are
swallowed by the ton in this
area.
“Free supplies under the
National Health Act have added
to the impressive quantities
taken, and no one seems to
question the propriety of it all.
Not one of the drugs deals with
underlying faults. They merely
remove troublesome symptoms.
“Indiscriminate pill-taking has
become one of the menaces of
the age. Women carry them in
their handbags and men in their
trousers-pocket.
“It fs difficult for a doctor,
with a waiting-room full of
patients, to argue that pills are
not necessary if someone de-
mands them. But they should
stand out more against their
patients.”
Dragnet Digest.
Fritz Has Had It. Probably
exactly accurate diagnosis by Milan
“II Corriere Della Sera”: “Those in
Whitehall and in the Pentagon who
think that Germany has millions of
infantry soldiers eager to get back
into uniform and start marching
again are dreaming. The Germans
are tired of war. That does not
mean they would refuse to defend
their country, but they must be con-
vinced that they will be fighting for
their own Government and not for
someone else’s interests.”
* ♦ * *
Tommy-gun Empire. Comforting
reflections of a London “Daily Tele-
graph” correspondent: “Stalin’s
empire has already proved a failure
in the sense that it has alienated all
those who might have been expected
to support it. Essentially, it is a
tommy-gun empire, and as such
highly vulnerable. Looking at our
side of the Iron Curtain is by no
means a wholly depressing experience.”
* * * *
It May B& For Years. —Short of
another, and big, handout by Uncle
Sam the economic-assistance plan for
Southern Asia will, in London
“Observer’s” view, be in the Kathleen
Mavourneen class: “If this six-year
plan—now christened ‘The Colombo
Plan’ —is carried out, it will mean a
vast step forward for one-third of
mankind. But it is clear that the
sums of money involved are far
beyond the capacity of the individual
countries plus the British Common-
wealth. Unless the whole democratic
world, including the United States,
shows that it is prepared to participate
in bearing the cost of this great con-
structive project, the proposed six-
year plan will take a dozen or twenty
years to mature.”
* * * *
Wanted, Time! Giving as its
authority the private opinion of a
“Whitehall official abreast of the
facts,” Edinburgh “Scotsman” states
that the realising of Western Europe’s
“integrated army” may take three or
four years—say by mid-1954 —to
attain. The same source said that
this was now thought likely to be the
“breathing-space” available t 9 the
West. Therefore, mid-1954 is the
deadline for completion of a rearma-
ment programme known as the
Defence-Shield Plan submitted to
President Truman by the Chiefs of
Staff.
« * * •
Baltic Deportations.— Figures given
in a New York “Herald Tribune”
article: Between 1941 and 1948
mass deportations in Lithuania alone
reduced the population by 520,000
persons. In Latvia, of a population
of roughly 2,000,000 before the war,
between 500,000 and 600,000 persons
have been sent to Soviet slave-labor
camps since 1941. Conditions in
Estonia are identical, an estimated 2U
per cent, of the 1,200,000 population
having been deported or massacred.
* * * *
Steel Grab. Without liking the
Attlees’ nationalising of steel at the
present uncertain time, London
“Economist” declines to panic over
it: “The very tight central control
already exercised and the loose form
of nationalisation laid down by the
Act together ensure that there will
be very little perceptible difference
for some time to come. Indeed, now
that it is clear [since the best men
have declined to take part] how ludi-
crously weak the corporation will be,
it seems probable that any change is
likely to be towards more, not less,
freedom of action for the steel com-
panies, in fact if not in law. Cer-
tainly the vesting of ownership of the
steel industry in the State wiff in no
sense be an industrial disaster.”
* * * *
China’s Corns— A further example
of the current spate of hopeful com-
ment, O. M. Green writing in Edin-
burgh “Scotsman”: “It is notice-
able that the Chinese Communists
today speak of themselves as ‘libera-
tors,’ not Communists; and of the
aim of their State as the New
Democracy. In everything, they say,
they draw their strength from the
people, studying the needs and charac-
teristics and the ancient traditions oi
China, the best of which, they claim,
they certainly mean to preserve. This
is the ideal. Whether it will be
borne out in practice remains to be
seen. Yet it seems true enough that
during the 17 years when Mao Tse-
tung had his capital at Yenan (and
even farther back still) there was little
or no contact between Russia and the
Chinese Communists. And it may be
that during those lonely years the
leaders Mao Tse-tung, Chu-teh
and Chou En-lai evolved their own
philosophy, Communist in outward
shape but intrinsically Chinese.”


THE li LITRE JOWETT JAVE
fdf
d
fd
fd
ideautij'Vil cJdine & YYjodemity
• THE ROOMINESS OF A FAMILY SALOON
• THE COMFORT OF A LIMOUSINE
• THE ROAD MANNERS OF A SPORTS MODEL
fd
f
Acceleration 0.62 in
22.2 secs.
Horizontally opposed
Flat-four SO b.h.p.
Engine.
Torsion Bar Suspen-
sion.
Steel Body.
Here Is a car that Incorporates
all the outstanding qualities of
power, acceleration, spaciousness,
comfort and appearance yet gives
you economy up to 35 m.p.g. under
average conditions. A streamlined
beauty with ample room for 6
passengers and luggage and the
full protection of an all steel body
on an immensely strong main
underframe. Once tried you’ll
say *Pd rather go by JavelinI *
* Made in Bradford, England, by JOWETT CARS LIMITED
COMMONWEALTH DISTRIBUTORS:
N.B.W. and A.0.T.: Bradford Cars Pty, Ltd., 218 New South Head Rd., Edgcclifl
Phone: FB 8100.
Victoria: Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 149-155 Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
Queensland: Redman Motors, 46-54 Edward St., Brisbane.
South Aust.: British Engineering Appliances Ltd., 430 King William St., Adelaide
Western Aust.: Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., 722 Wellington St., Perth.
Tasmania: Donald Gorringe Pty. Ltd., 72 Argyle Street, Hobart.
THE H LITRE
JOWETT
NimAYi
d
STAMPS
for collectors!
50 different, inc. pictorials, 1/3.
50 diff. British Empire, inc. good
stamps, 5/-.
50 different, all pictorials, 5/-.
From J. Smith, Box 19, Earlwood,
N-S.W.
Fly the shortest way
TO
fd
by QEA and BOAC in 4 days
7h
K 49
—the all-Consteflation route
—through the colourful Orient
—with three night stops
Plan now to fly to the Festival of Britain, 1951. Everywhere
you’ll be “welcome to Britain” ... to its Exhibitions and
Anniversaries . . . Musical and Dramatic Festivals . . •
Agricultural Shows and International Sporting Events.
Less time by air, means more to spend there. And the
shortest route, with three restful night stops is the
“Kangaroo” service . . . you fly all-the-way by luxurious
air-conditioned Constellations, world’s finest international
aircraft.
En route, see Singapore, colourful, exotic Crossroads of the
East, and tour magnificent “continental” Rome, as the guest
of Q.E.A.-B.O.A.C. Fly “express” in 4 days or stopover at
these, or other airports—at no extra fare.
Modem hotel accommodation and transport included at all
night stops. Superlative service and excellent food—aloft
and aground.
No currency problems. No tips—no extras to pay.
Five services weekly from Sydney. Regular route
via Calcutta —alternative service via Colombo and
Bombay. Consult your travel agent.
A'E'A cmd B-O-A-C
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVFRSFAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
When the N.S.W. Parliament
debates “tied-houses” it’s a case
of bung rules.
4* 4*
“The arrogance of some hotel-
keepers is almost unbelievable.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
It’s hard to put up with them.
4* 4* 4*
“Labor members shot an arrow in
the air that landed plop on the
expansive dome of ex-Air Minister
Drakeford.”
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.’''
With a dull sound.
4* 4* 4*
“Gussie Moran got top billing as
the tennis pros opened their winter
tour in New York’s Madison Square
Garden.”
She is expected to give her
opponents a lacing.
“Select your fundation garment;
be personally fitted.” — Advert.
But don’t split your sides
getting into it.
•J*
“The Public Service Board will
blitz slackers and time-wasters in
Canberra’s Government offices.”
—Melbourne “Argus.’’
No doubt it has them already
taped.
4* 4*
“Italian women-Parliamentarians
have won a notable victory for
women’s rights. They have gained
the privilege of getting free hair-dos.”
—Melbourne “Age.”
A permanent privilege.
With Modifications.
“I am absolutely in favor of
women.” — Sir Alan Herbert.
None but confirmed misogynists
Who ever view with appre-
hension
The female form will mind the
mention
Of chivalry that still persists
(A t least amongst our humorists )
Towards the sex which makes
dissension
Yet which, it seems, deserves
retention
As long as this old world exists.
The paradox, strange though it
seem.
Is this: the adverb “absolutely”
Will be approved, thus used
astutely,
By henpecks and the sorry
throng
Of sons-in-law who all would
deem
The milder “relatively” wrong.
BERT.
Dobbin-San Witness.
“The Labor Relations Board in
Hokkaido, in rejecting appeals for
sustenance pay by owners on behalf
of horses retrenched by the Nippon
Transportation Co., which had hired
them, stated that if the horses them-
selves had entered into the contract
with the company they could sue, but
it would then be necessary for the
horses to appear in court to give
evidence.”
The following statements have
been given to the Occupation
Press by various interested
parties: —
Watchasucka Kuma g u t s a ,
spokesman for the horse-
owners :
“Quadrupedestrian friends of
man of considerable nobleness
and astutefulnesses most certain-
ful intend to sue in own name.
Distinctly remembering honor-
able mokes at time giving vigor-
ously approval of orally con-
tract by nodding melon verti-
cally, also up stroke, much ad-
ditional of evidence being stamp-
ing of hoof-print on musty
legalised document as his mark,
which can producing by order
of court as valuables exhibit A
in case. Cast of hoof (near
hind) of beast of burden, chest-
nut shade, will be found to
square with mark on honorable
parchment, if any. Case sewn
up, scrumptiously. After legal
victory owners gleefully fill
hooved cobbers up with oats
soaked in sake, blissful celebra-
tions in stalls, or even dress-
circles, and much exultantly
whinnying all round.”
Wakko Watakorka, spokesman
for the Nippon Transportation
Company:
“Honorable plaintiff prads
welcome to hop into witness-
box any tick of clock, park hoof
on Good Book and whinny
equine equivalents of swearful-
ness to spill truth, whole truth,
or nothing but damned lies, so
help me Charlie. Would advise
four-foot Portias, however, they
will have greatly needing of all
horsesense they can be muster-
ings. Also, not possible of great
boastfulllngs on their part that
" Whacko, Ben — beer’s on at Blacktown!”
they alone in court will be wear-
ing of the horsehairs.
“Transportation Company will
possible have respect in plural
quantities for mane argument
pushed up by learned nags, but
also aware honorable witnesses
liable to wanderings off straight
anil narrow polemical track un-
less equippings with blinkers.
Company much cunningly also.
Should learned mokes quote
case-law and give us honorable
horse - laugh or argument
generally get too strongful and
make impressionful mark on
twelve good men and true, slip-
ping of nosebag over witness’s
ears should proving of much
effectively, for how can light
draught answer questions pronto
while gob poked down among
lashings of chaff and other ap-
proved horse-scran, with much-
ful of blowings and snortings as
necessarily concomitant to feed-
ing with gusto?”
Baron Iputituyu, leader of the
Japanese Bar:
“Provided honorable horse is
aged and of certified soundnesses
of mind, wind and limb, no
previously convictioning for
arson, uttering, lese-majesty,
armed robbery, driving under
influence or other honorable
turpitudes, no reasonings why
respectable equine cannot enter
into contracts of considerable
iron-tightness and water-bound-
ness so much so being difficulty
in barristers finding loopholes to
wriggling out of. Problem of
horse witness, however, poses
greatly difficulties. What if
honorable moke insists on
pulling cart with him when
goings on witness-stand? Or
yokingness of full team comes
in with corroborative detail to
give verisimilitude to otherwise
bald and unconvincing narra-
tive, like Pooh-Bah of honor-
able memory? Still, self will be
esteeming highly honored to
stack up against fifteen-hand
witness with set of tombstones
even larger than self in legal
contendingness and furious argu-
mentings at a thousand yen a
day as refresher,”
The President of the Honor-
able Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Judges:
“Members of this august
society push forward vehement-
ness of protesting against pro-
posal to allow equine conduct-
ings of cases in court, browbeat-
ing of witnesses, roarings at
judge as in Hollywood flicks
and perhaps lashing out with
viciously at associates. What if
honorable juror has been bribed
by opposition to feed witness
up with much surreptitiously and
clover laced with garlic, and wit-
ness sneezes towards honorable
judge? Much • unhygienicness,
also most unhealthfully, and cer-
taihly insalubrious for holding
scales of justice with steady eye
and uprightly mien. Also, under
current democrativeness of Nip-
pon, appearance of-hairy goat in
court liableness to attracting
urgers, s.-p. merchants and other
impedimenta of places where
fiddle-faced brutes rush around
to get photo-finishes, resulting in
possible nobbling of judges by
shot of dope to win case. Society
most unhappily at possible of
set-up.”
Having been apprised at the
Palace by the Lord Chief Pro-
tector of the Divine Fountain
Pen of the unusual item of news
that had caused so much con-
troversy among his subjects,
the Emperor ceased, tempo-
rarily, his self-imposed demo-
cratic task of washing the Royal
family’s socks to woo the muse.
After a fortnight of profound
thought and much thumbing of
the Imperial rhyming dictionary,
the following brilliantly original,
bold and beautifully thoughtful
poem was given to the world:
/ have often wondered
As I saw a horse
Pulling a cart a-
Long a street
(Or, if it was downhill and
The cart happened in that case to
Be pushing the horse)
That a horse could possibly
Make an extremely excellent
witness
In a court of law.
After all, why should it not.
Hey ?
Its heart beats the same
As ours,
I think.
Bo.
Sincere.
“We all have guilt and we all need
a certain amount of it to make us
socially acceptable.” Psychoanalyst
Dr. Bruce Ruddick.
A word of wisdom in your ear,
You maidens fair, for marriage
ripe;
Select the chaps who flirt and
leer
And dodge the namby-pamby
type.
You’ll find the charm of
mother’s-boy
And virtues of Sir Lancelot
In less than no time start to cloy
While all their talk is tommy-rot.
Moreover they in future years
When faced by cares that
children bring
Are liable to cause you tears
By starting out to have their
fling.
Whereas the man who burns his
boats
When done with immaturity
And youthful sowing of wild
oats
Will bring guilt-edged security.
D.H.E.


Established 185*
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON *
THAOE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd,
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
■KAO OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS ft OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
■TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS and office equipment
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACKSUL.” BRISBANE
STOPyour Rupture I
Worries|_HHMHH
I
fd
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and U Days’ Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
gtfs
Wi'r
iO
55
m
m
y
m
Ve
M
G
I'9
There’s a
to suit every pocket
Whether you prefer the streamlined chrome
set, complete with stropper, or a less preten-
tious set, you are assured of the same keen
shave. The super-keen Gem blades of
surgical steel and the automatic shaving
angle of the razor give you a skin-level
shave that avoids 5 o’clock shadow.
• Gem de luxe Chrome Strop Outfit with auto-
matic stropper, as illustrated above, complete
with 8 Gem Double Life Blades, in ivory
plastic gift case, 35/-.
• Gem chromium-plated streamline model in
handsome case of ivory plastic with 5 Gem
Double Life Blades, 20/-.
• Gem Razor with two Gem Double Life Blades
in serviceable bakelite case, 3/-. N
• Gem Razor, complete with 2 Gem Double Life
Blades, 1/6.
• Gem Automatic Stropper, as illustrated, 10/-
each.
• Packet of 5 Gem Double Life Blades of sturdy,
surgical steel last longer, shave keener, 1/9.
Obtainable at all Stores, Jewellers, Tobacconists
and Chemists.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
There are, of course, odd, excep-
tional examples of horses winning
top-class races at their first public
appearance. Even so, few horses
have burst into the limelight of a
Melbourne spring carnival with so
little experience behind them as had
Morse Code prior to the three suc-
cessive starts which have seen him
ran third in the Melbourne Cup, then
win the Williamstown Cup, and, on
Saturday, the Eclipse Stakes.
When the four-year-old Morse
Code lined up for the Melbourne
Cup he had had only six previous
starts, and had won one race. Con-
templating, in retrospect, the improve-
ment he has shown since, connections
must now be inclined to regret that
this was so. With a bit more solid
racing experience under his belt before
contesting the Cup he might have
given Comic Court a deal more
bother than was the case. At all
events Morse Code is the real staying
“find” of the spring racing,, and is
one to keep well in mind for the
next Melbourne Cup. Certainly the
handicappers aren’t likely to forget
him; they let him into the Cup with
7.6 this year.
When the pace is on from go to
whoa in a distance event the true
stayer is in his element, and the
doubtfuls soon fall by the wayside.
Morse Code is a real stayer, and,
with his stablemate Tuatea making the
pace a cracker right from the jump,
the job of winning the Eclipse Stakes
was simply made to order for him.
When the time came for him to make
his run in the straight Morse Code
effortlessly sprinted past his stable-
mate, and won by three lengths,
easing up, Tuatea just hung on long
enough to beat honest little True
Course by a head for second money.
True Course was certainly not dis-
graced; she maintained her record of
having never finished out of a place,
and the minor money brought her
winnings to £19,531 —only about £BOO
less than the year-older, and very
good, Chicquita. From the weight-
for-age viewpoint True Course really
took the honors in the Eclipse Stakes.
Morse Code carried 91b. under
weight-for-age and Tuatea 291 b. under,
but True Course lumped 81b. over
the weight-for-age scale. And all six
other runners carried less than weight-
for-age.
Owned jointly by G. Nicholas and
C. Robbie, Morse Code is a four-
year-old son of St. Magnus-Wire-
away, is trained by L. Robertson
and was ridden by R. Hutchinson.
With the able assistance rendered by
Tuatea, Morse Code cut out the 12-
furlongs in 2.29- —only Hsec. outside
the Australian record created on the
same track 15 years ago by Palfresco
when he won the Caulfield Cup.
Winner’s purse of £2OOO in the Eclipse
brought Morse Code’s winnings to a
shade under £7OOO. which is a reason-
able haul from a bare nine starts.
Mentioned here last wee*k as
unlikely to start at 250 to 1 next
time up, the Great Legend colt Great
Gilbert went out at 8 to 1 for Satur-
day’s second Stansmore Two-year-old.
At those odds he proved excellent
value for punters who had been suffi-
ciently impressed by his effort of the
previous week. Great Gilbert turned
on, for a two-year-old, a really
astonishing finishing burst to beat
the fancied pair, Macfarlane and Los
Feliz. Early in the race Great Gilbert
(R. Irons) seemed to be hopelessly
out of his ground. He was still last
at the turn, but from there on made
short work of gathering in the field.
He won by only a half-neck, but was
a couple of lengths clear a few yards
past the post.
Great Gilbert chopped out the five
furlongs in 601 sec., which is smart
enough, but earlier, winning the first
division comfortably from Beau Sil-
houette and Bahadur, Black Jet
clocked a really excellent 59+sec. As
can be gathered from these times,
and that of Morse Code, the Caul-
field track was very fast. As well,
the aged Kinderscout gelding Waldorf
(B. Jenkins) covered the six furlongs
of the Rosstown Plate in I.lo|. After
withstanding the opinion of the
camera, and then a protest, Waldorf
was adjudged to have won by a half-
head from the strongly fancied Merry
Scout.
The mile Pelham Handicap for
three-year-olds provided the real
thriller of the day with favorite Flying
Halo, Hundi, who had tried to lead
all the way, and Niaranga hitting the
line virtually inseparable. The camera
gave it to the favorite, with the others
following, as mentioned, at half-head
intervals.
* * * ♦
After traversing its customary steps
of vacillation N.S.W. State Cabinet
last week renewed the ban on mid-
week racing in Sydney which has
been in force since 1941. Immediately
there was a rush to the Wailing Wall;
the moans and groans from sundry
interests were really piteous. How-
ever, it is difficult to discern (or is
it?) just what interests are really
anxious to have more racing in
Sydney when, as it is, the near-
Sydney provincial courses are con-
tinually complaining about the lack
of patronage owners and trainers
accord their fixtures, and when Satur-
day’s A.J.C. meeting at Randwick,
with £5500 added money, attracted
the inglorious total of 65 runners for
a card of seven races.
If, as is claimed, the present set-up
does not provide owners and trainers
sufficient opportunities for starting
their horses m suitable races, and if,
as is also claimed, the paucity of
prizemoney in relation to costs of
transport, etc., is the reason for lack
of patronage of provincial meetings,
then the best all-round solution would
be for the Chief Secretary to accede
to the wishes of the historic Hawkes-
bury Racing Club to have itself
declared a provincial course. Hawkes-
bury is one of the oldest race clubs
in Australia, and, with age and
tradition, it fs a club of rather higher
standing and repute than some of the
smaller shows (the bad old pony
days aren’t dead, they’re merely rusti-
cating). Unfortunately Hawkesbury is
a bare mile or so inside the 40-miles
radius of Sydney, beyond which lie
the provinces. With its total activities
at present limited to one metropolitan
meeting per year (held at Rosehill),
Hawkesbury has for some time been
trying to persuade officials to allow
it to renounce (gladly) the empty
honor of metropolitan status. The
club undertakes, if it be permitted
to operate as a “provincial,” to com-
pletely modernise the course (plans
and cash for this job are ready and
waiting) and to provide prizemoney
which will be in itself worth com-
peting for. The principal argument
against reintroduction of midweek
racing in Sydney is that it will cause
absenteeism and interfere with
industry. Racing at Hawkesbury, a
fraction this side of the 40-miles
limit, will scarcely cause appreciably
more absenteeism than is at present
the case with meetings a few miles
beyond the limit.
* * * *
Hereabouts, midway between the
more important spring and summer
meetings, is always an off-season in
Sydney racing, but Saturday’s fields
at Randwick seemed even more than
normally poor in quality, as well as
numerically. The reaction of punters
to the offering was reflected by a tote
turnover of £93,223, compared with
£149,720 on the corresponding day
last year. Attendance was 27,300,
against 32,000 last year.
The stayers’ leg of the main double,
the Warwick November Handicap,
attracted, if that is the word, seven
runners, of whom Phil Tress headed
the weights with 9st. By way of
distant comparison, Phil Tress was
rated at 6.10 in the last Metropolitan.
The six-year-old High Caste gelding
High Ideals made a one-horse act of
the November Handicap. With his
mind evidently firmly fixed on notch-
ing up his first metropolitan winner,
apprentice J. Tuite, right from the
start, sooled High Ideals along as
though it were a five-furlongs sprint;
it might just as well have been. High
Ideals had a very big lead early, and,
though they were overhauling him
near the finish, he plugged on to beat
the favorite Peace Treaty by a long
neck.
Main event for the shorter-distance
merchants, the Camden Handicap (7f.)
drew a rather better field of 11 run-
ners. As a last-start winner in similar
company Hesdin (B. Smith) started
a warm favorite, and, looking the
winner all the way, scored comfort-
ably from Penmore and Phalanx.
Bookmakers, always ready to cater
for the gullible, promptly opened
books on the Villiers-Summer Cup
double and installed Hesdin favorite
for the first leg, despite that several
Villiers entries could comfortably
give the bulk of Saturday’s field a
stone and a start.
Punters, or, at least, backers of
favorites, fared best with the two-
year-old events. The Maltine Stakes
for fillies was won by Sunshine
Express (R. Selkrig) at 5-to-4-on, and
even-money favorite Ocean Bound (N.
Sellwood) accounted for the colts and
geldings in the Hoxton Juvenile
Stakes. Sunshine Express is a
daughter of White Ensign and Ocean
Bound is a son of Channel Swell,
whose youngsters are shaping very
well this season.
♦ * * ♦
For Randwick (before accept-
ances): —
Greystanes Nursery: Meadow Mist,
1; Noble Love, 2; Sunshine Express,
3. Three-year-old: Stelvio, 1; Sea-
sonal, 2; Putoko, 3. Strathfield
Juvenile: Smuggler’s Hoard, 1;
Channel Rise, 2; Highlea, 3. Novice:
Miss Moya, 1; Final Act, 2; Amico,
3. Varroville Handicap: Field Boy,
1; Buzmark, 2; Midwise, 3. Home-
bush Handicap: Wiranya, 1; lolanda,
2; Crown Street, 3. Macquarie Grove
Handicap: Bold Archer, 1; Video, 2;
Ashtray, 3.
* * * *
In England, nowadays, when a
horse passes the post winner of the
Derby he acquires an immediate
value of at least £lOO,OOO for stud
purposes. In Australia, it appears,
when a horse wins our principal race,
the Melbourne Cup, or wins sufficient
other races to prove himself outstand-
ing, he likewise acquires a high value,
but, unfortunately, it is all-too-often
assessed in dollars. Melbourne Cup
winner Foxzami is reportedly our
latest impending export to America,
where he will join previous Cup win-
nfr's Russia and Colonus, to say
nothing of such horses as Bern-
borough, Shannon, Ajax and Bern-
brook.
♦ * * *
The N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion had its usual rotten luck with
the weather for the State champion-
ships throughout last week. The
scheduled programme was thrown all
astray, and finals had not been played
when this went to the printer. Faced
with his first serious opposition in
the shape of Bromwich, the American
Larsen forswore the antics he had
turned on for the crowd in earlier,
easier matches and settled down to
earnest play—earnest enough to see
him the eventual winner in four sets,
8-6, 6-3, 5-7, 6-4. A much closer
affair than the .scores suggest, it was
one of the best matches of the series;
not fast and furious, but a keen battle
of court strategy, placements and
variations of pace between two
masters of this vanishing style of
play. Actually Larsen has no need to
indulge in any extraneous antics; his
tennis is as good as a circus in itself.
Subsequently beating McGregor in
straight sets, Larsen was to meet
Sedgman in the final. The doubles
finalists were to be Sedgman-
McGregor and the evergreen Old
Firm Bromwich-Quist.
* * * *
Over recent weeks an untold
number of experts have devoted
countless thousands of words in the
daily Press to selecting their versions
of the Australian team that should be
picked to meet England in the first
Test at Brisbane this weekend. Last
week three men, J. Ryder, E. A.
Dwyer and S’ Don Bradman, gave
their version in about one dozen
words: L. Hassett, N. Harvey, J.
Iverson, I. Johnson, W. Johnston
and S. Loxton, all of Victoria; A.
Morris, K. Miller, R. Lindwall and
J. Moroney of N.S.W.; D. Tallon
and K. Archer (12th man) of Queens-
land.
With the exception of two “swing-
ing seats” the team picked itself. In
preference to McCool and one or two
other candidates, Loxton gained the
berth of general utility man. The
other selection that was in some doubt
was that of the Victorian spin bowler
Iverson. Whether it be Australia
touring England or England touring
Australia it simply wouldn’t be a
Test season unless the home side had
an unknown mystery man up the
sleeve. Usually he’s an alleged freak
bowler able to make the pill perform
tricks never previously known to man.
Sometimes he does. This year the
mystery lad has been Iverson, a 35-
year-old who claims that he has only
been seriously interested in cricket for
a couple of seasons and has actually
never seen a Test. Howsoever, even
leaving Iverson as an unknown factor,
it seems a more solid team than
M.C.C., on form revealed so far,
can field. The real question now is
whether Brisbane weather will, as it
so often does, produce conditions in
which a captain with a good ground-
ing in two-up is a greater asset to
his side than all the best bats and
bowlers jn the world.
Brisbane weather did perform
according to repute for the M.C.C.
v, Q’land match which commenced on
Friday. The first day’s play saw
Queensland lose eight for 216, Carri-
gan top-scoring with an even 100.
file second day saw rain in undeniable
quantities. On their way through to
Brisbane earlier in the week the
M. men dallied a while for a
two-day match v. a Northern N.S.W.
team at Lismofe, a progressive young
city in which touring teams of the
foreseeable future may find them-
selves playing much more important
matches. Batting first, M.C.C. scored
274; the countryites had run up 156
and two for 55 before time expired
and honor was satisfied all round.
Among the crowd that watched the
N. v. Victoria Sheffield Shield
match last week were the Australian
selectors, and the players seemed
painfully conscious of their presence.
It was a match of big scoring, and
of early promise, but it degenerated
into a farcical finish. In the first
innings Victoria knocked up 374, and
N.S.W. (346) failed by 28 to beat
that total. Evidently satisfied with
the knowledge of a first-innings win,
the Victorian skipper Hassett decided
that a bit of solid batting-practice
was more in order than any “sport-
ing-declaration” nonsense, at which
stage the game, from the spectators’
viewpoint, concluded. The ’Wales
skipper, Morris, entered upon the spirit
of things by in turn giving all and
sundry a spot of bowling practice.
In all he tried nine bowlers, some of
whom were as surprised to find them-
selves in action as the opposition was
to see them. Victoria’s second innings
had reached 295 when the umpires’
repeated glances at their watches were
finally rewarded.
* * * #
Leichhardt boxing fans, who usually
have to resort to post-mortem abuse
of the referee to gain their weekly
lung-exercise, had something more
substantial to bite on last week when
Taffie Hancock (8.1+) and Johnny
Gleeson (8.4£) gave the politest
exhibition of refined, gentlemanly,
drawing-room behavior that could
possibly be reconciled with their
presence in a pugilistic arena. By
the sixth round the ref. had had
enough, and declared “No fight.”


SEED SOWING ‘ FERTILISING • PEST CONTROL
f
Do it by Air-griculture !
Do your seed sowing, fertilising and pest control by air.
It s speedy, it's economical. Scientifically designed equip-
ment assures correct poundage per acre and even distri-
bution. For further details and name of nearest agent
write to
AIR-GR (CULTURE
CONTROL LIMITED
AERIAL CONTRACTORS
77 CASTLEREAGH STREET* SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: M 3347 TELEGRAMS: "'AIRSPRAY" SYDNEY
menovis" Worm Remedy
aching
time
r
t
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE N
IMPROVED
/ o/// / //.
‘PHENOVIS’
Phenothiazine Drench
df
d
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-819J
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS"
Mulga Palatability.
“Agric”: Few people doubt
the feeding qualities of mulga,
but very little is known of its
real quality. Trials in West Aus-
tralia gave some illuminating
results. About 5000 ewes were
put into mobs of 1500 each,
which were shepherded on cut
mulga, sufficient being cut to
keep half a day ahead of the
sheep. On the best varieties the
sheep soon settled down. They
would browse during the early
morning and late evening, going
to water in the afternoon, being
shepherded to ensure they took
the shortest route to water.
During a seven-months drought
their condition improved and
rams were joined, with a result-
ant 52 per cent, lambing.
Losses in the flock were be-
low those of a normal good year,
while condition in the “controls”
mob was so poor that rams
could not be mated. The shep-
herded flock grew a fleece of
sound, even wool, while those
on adjoining properties yielded
only 30 per cent, satisfactory
wool. Furthermore, the cost of
feeding chaff and oats at the
rate of 41b. per head per day
was Bd. per head per week,
compared with only 2d. per head
per week with the mulga feed-
ing.
It is assumed from the fore-
going that the failure of Queens-
land mulga-fed ewes to lamb
may be overcome by new
methods of management de-
signed to conserve energy. So
far no figures are available re-
garding the quantity of mulga a
sheep might eat in Queensland,
but in West Australia hand-fed
penned sheep consumed 31b. a
head for 15 days, during which
the average weight of the sheep
improved from 7Q.81b. to 75.31 b.
In the succeeding nine weeks
sheep fed on mulga alone
showed an average increase of
11.71 b. on a daily intake Of just
over 31b. a day. It has been
claimed in West Australia that
seedling mulga is unpalatable,
but in Queensland the reverse is
the case, and grazing young
mulga has had a profound effect
on rejuvenation.
Pleuro in Cattle.
“W.C.Q.”: At a field day in
Mackay district (N.Q.) stock-
inspector L. G. Walker told
cattlemen that pleuro-pneumonia
could be checked and finally got
rid of if annual, or better still,
biannual vaccination were prac-
tised.
However, a beast was not
necessarily a victim of pleuro
because its ears were drooping
and it had a languid appear-
ance. Such symptoms indicated
illness and a high fever, which
could be brought on by a num-
ber of other infections.
A beast suffering from pleuro
would stand with its elbows pro-
truding, because this relieved
strain on the lungs. A definite
lung cough was usually present,
but this, too, could indicate
quite another disease.
Fluid on the lungs was not
a sure sign of pleuro, but
“marbling” of the lungs was.
The lung structure became
tough and hard in cases of
pleuro, whereas softness and
sponginess were characteristic of
healthy lungs.
Drought seasons with short-
age of grass and water prevent
“Hey! Are you there, Mum?”
pleuro’s spread. The disease can
only spread from beast to beast,
and victims soon perish if they
have to travel far for food and
water. But in good seasons in-
fected beasts hang on indefinitely
and pass the infection on to
their fellows.
Mineral Lacks.
“Howie Wing”; “Myrrhee’s”
technique for zinc - deficient
fruit-trees is sound (B. 13/9/’50),
and other minor-element de-
ficiencies can be known and
treated according to the symp-
toms. Lack of manganese in
apples causes intervenal yellow-
ing of the leaves, the veins re-
maining green. Spray, in
November, with 11b. each of
manganese sulphate and wash-
ing soda to lOgal. of water.
Trees regularly sprayed with
Bordeaux do not usually suffer
from copper-deficiency, but if
they do summer dieback will
occur. Apply copper or copper-
ised super, to the soil.
Corky diseases of apples and
pears are considered due to
boron deficiency, and it is hoped
that boron sprays will be the
cure. Experiments are in pro-
gress with “bitter pit” of Cleo
apples.
Where trees are in difficulties
it is always wise to suspect first
a shortage of the “big three”
(phosphate, nitrogen and potash),
then the minor elements. An
experiment with a few pounds of
the various chemicals will cost
little and may give valuable re-
sults, especially where other
conditions are known to be good.
But with apples, usually the
most prone to deficiency symp-
toms, it is doubtful whether
treatment of severe cases will
ever be really successful or diag-
nosis exact.
It has often been observed
that stone-fruits growing near
affected apples show no sign of
deficiency. Apples showing
common signs of manganese de-
ficiency sometimes recover when
irrigated. Where apples have
been planted in shallow soil the
russeiing of leaves, rightly
classed by “Myrrhee” as indicat-
ing lack of zinc, can sometimes
be corrected by loosening the
underlying clay with explosives.
For Home Veges.
“A-Jay”; Cloches, which con-
sist of two panes of glass each
16in. long by 14in. wide secured
by a wire framework so as to
form an inverted V-shaped tent,
help the home-gardener to get
earlier crops.
A row of vegetables can be
covered by a series of cloches
fitted against each other to form
a continuous line, and there is a
device for ventilation at the
ridge. The glass raises the soil
temperature immediately under-
neath it rather than the air
temperature above the surface,
though it does this to some de-
gree.
Their use under Australian
conditions would be more for
starting early crops rather than
growing them to full maturity, as
is done in cooler climates, and
they can be removed as the nor-
mal soil heat increases. In prac-
tice they allow summer plants
to mature about a month earlier.
Planted-out tomato or cucurbit
seedlings can be covered by in-
dividual cloches until they reach
the first flowering stage.
Cactus Pest.
“Sarina”: Cattlemen north-
west of Mackay (N.Q.) are
worried by the rapid spread of a
giant weed called Harrisia cac-
tus. Unless checked the pest
will spread towards Clermont
and into the C.Q. grazing lands.
Like all members of its tribe,
the smallest vestige of the cactus
is able to grow into a new plant.
Cutting-back merely delays their
growth, and the severed stuff
will start growing again if left
about. A piece will live for
months without water.
Those who have only a few
plants have been cutting off or
killing the tops with arsenic and
then tackling the taproots with a
pint of llb.-to-the-gallon arsenic
pentoxide. An impossible task
where there are cacti-stands
covering acres, since every plant
makes a root-system wherever
its stems touch the earth.
Hormones won’t kill it, and it
seems that an insect, such as the
cactoblastis, which beat prickly-
pear, is needed.
Care of Cream-cans.
“Beau Forte”: The many
cream-cans being discarded as
unsuitable for retinning indicates
that many farmers wait too long
before having their cans recon-
ditioned.
If rust spots occur on the in-
terior the can should be retinned
immediately; otherwise these
spots have a deleterious effect on
the contents. The surest way to
encourage rust in a can is to
leave it standing with moisture
in it.
If water gets behind the band
rust will attack the can at that
point. A loose band may cause
injury to the persons handling
the cans.
With careful attention the
average milk-can may be used
for about eight years before it
is overcome by dents, holes, rust
or just falls apart at the seams.
To keep a can in good order
use a dependable washing solu-
tion ; leave the lids off empty
cans; don’t scratch the inside of
the can with the stirring-rod;
wash out sour milk or cream
right away; and after a good
rinsing put the can upside-down
on a drying-rack.
The Farm Workshop.
“Rooster”; The shop is best
kept at a distance from other
buildings as precaution against
fire. Keep the main entrance
accessible to all implements.
Equipment should include a
forge, anvil, tongs, assortment
of hammers and moulds, iron-
cutters, drilling-machine, vice
and a small lathe. Handy also
would be a set of stocks and
dies. Initial outlay is costly, but
would soon pay for itself.
Make the bench fairly solid,
with plenty of racks for tools.
A soldering outfit is handy. For
forging metals a 21b. hammer is
suitable, but a sledge is useful.
Most smithies use a “hardie,” a
device which has a stem for
fitting to the vice, useful for
cutting hot or cold iron, even
mild steel. Cold-chisels are kept
thicker than those used for hot
cutting; they have to withstand
heavier blows.
Potash Deficiency.
“M.”: Symptoms on fruit-
trees are a scorching of the leaf
edges which may appear as
early as mid-December. The
scorch first shows as brown
patches of dead tissue, and, as
the season progresses, these turn
greyish brown and extend to-
wards the centre of the leaf,
while the edges curl inwards,
giving the leaf a rolled appear-
ance. The dead tissue often
shows bands or zones running
more or less parallel to the leaf
edge.
C. R. Brough, B.Agr.Sc., in
the Victorian Journal of Agri-
culture, states that affected
leaves fall early, defoliation
occurring from the base of the
shoot. Leader and lateral growth
is reduced, and die-back of the
limb may occur. To correct the
trouble Brough advises a soil
dressing of 21b. per tree of sul-
phate of potash or potash salts
each spring, in addition to the
normal fertiliser programme. In
severe cases a complete cure
isn’t likely in one season, and
potash may be needed for several
seasons, but mild cases should
respond quickly.
Improved Grazing Oats.
“Agric”: The abnormally wet
winter in Queensland this year
provided a severe test for graz-
ing oats on coastal dairyfarms,
and the superiority of some new
varieties was demonstrated.
Until recently none of the
varieties available in Queensland
could be relied upon to stand
up to a season favorable for rust.
A few years ago the Queensland
Department of Agriculture in-
troduced three new varieties of
oats, and two of these have
proved practically unaffected by
crown-rust —the most trouble-
some form of oat-rust in crops
required for grazing.
One of these is Victoria x
Richland and the other
Fulghum x Victoria; the first
is a quick grower and rapidly
recovers after grazing, and the
second matures somewhat later
and normally would provide a
longer grazing season. Another
new variety—Klein—is some-
what similar to Algerian in


USE ONLY
(Regd. Trade Mark)
Eli^CS
The Green Ring
FOR MARKING LAMBS & CALVES
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PIT. LTD.
125 William Street, Melbourne
aa
Milestones in our NationalProotess(6l
MT-
a o 01 Vo 11 v h
il
\
In 1900 the Constitution Bill was passed
and in 1901 the Commonwealth of Australia
came into being with the Earl of Hopetoun
as its first Governor-General and Edmund
Barton as its first Prime Minister. Thus
emerged the Nation whose future Is regarded
by experts as the "Larder" for the world's
growing millions.
Australia's primary producers will respond
nobly to this magnificent task, and in their
fulfilment of it Ronaldson-Tippett will assist
them by continuing to produce engines and
allied equipment of the highest class.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: Ballarat, Victoria. Melbourne Office: 628 Bourke
St. VjS'.IV. Dist.: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd., Frazer House,
42 Bridge St., Sydney. Q’land Dist.: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.)
Pty. Ltd., Scottish Union House, 127 Eagie St., Brisbane.
f
Ancestors of
an Industry
Sir William Ramsay was the discoverer
of a whole new family of elements—an achieve-
ment unparalleled in the entire history of
chemistry. The first of his discoveries was made
in 1894 when, with Lord Rayleigh, he isolated
argon, a rare gas that exists in small quantities in
the air. Later, Ramsay and his assistants suc-
ceeded in isolating helium, neon, krypton and
xenon, which are also present in the atmosphere
but in even smaller amounts. At first these gases
were mere chemical curiosities, but now, half a
century later, they are of the first industrial im-
portance. Argon is the gas used in the modern
gas-filled electric light bulb. The electric dis-
charge lamp depends on neon to such an extent
that few recognise it today by any other name
that of “neon sign.” Helium is also employed in
these lamps, in addition to' its well-known use,
instead of hydrogen, for providing buoyancy for
“lighter-than-air” craft.
Ramsay was born in Glasgow in 1852. He was
a first-class athelete, musician and linguist, as
well as being professor of chemistry at Bristol
and later at University College, London. He was
knighted in 1902, and awarded the Nobel Prize
in 1904. In 1913 he presided over the Inter-
national Association of Chemical
Societies, where his flair for
languages enabled him to address
his cosmopolitan audience in
English, French, German and
Italian. He died in 1916.
c
r^-Tmr
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
■IL-85-I4'
BUSCH
DIRECT CURRENT
MOTORS
4, i and | Horse Power
Voltages 32, 50, 110 and 240
Solid base or Resilient Mountings (it
for washing machines, state make).
Guaranteed 12 Months.
Obtainable through local electrical
or hardware stores, or communicate
with N.S.W. Distributors:
DRYSDALE ELECTRIC
Pty. I4d.
165 Clarence St., Sydney.
’Phone: BX 3646.
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth lo
grinder discs-*—recommended for shearing-shed work.
vii-w
71
rmmMM t ¥ *
V-v : •••;«
u
msssm
40x., Boz. t 16<Jz., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
Esdaile’s have a full range of BROAD HURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
df
Body and Drawtubes
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect the
Object Glass and
Eye-piece.
Several models to
choose from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses.
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
Price includes tax.
£l3/18/6.
d
fd
f
42. HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
§
I
mR
CUT BLACKBERRES, LANTANAS,
TALL WEEDS, GRASS, ETC.
/aster
Smen with
HAND SCYTHES
WITH THE
MAYFIELD
MOTOR SCYTHE
?o
SSE
-
Slash blackberries, bracken, lantanas, tall weeds and grass with the
powerful Mayfield Motor Scythe. Its heavy duty four stroke
motor fitted with three speed gearbox pushes the scythe at 1$
miles an hour through the thickest growth in low gear, 2-2$ m.p.h.
in second gear and 3 m.p.h. in top gear. The Mayfield Motor
Scythe is easily manoeuvred, has perfect balance and is fitted with
an alternative offset cutter unit, an excellent feature where
exceptionally long growth is encountered.
• Four-stroke petrol engine • Perfect balance
• Three-speed gearbox • Easily manoeuvred
• Built for heavy duty • Alternative offset cutter
• Cultivating equipment available
For detailed information — WRITE —CALL PHONE
\ CUfdc SarpßdL
1 0 IVI SI 0 F CLYDE IJ 00S I 8 IJJ lIMI I f # v
61 WENTWORTH AVENUE, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: MA 9141.
growth habits and maturity
period, but is much more resist-
ant to crown-rust, though not
nearly to the same extent as the
other two.
Make Good Sopors.
“Soc”; Half a dozen
“knocked-up” supers won’t out-
last one well put together.
Choose cedar or beech, oil the
ends and set the dovetails
square. Use the right nails,
cement-coated, 16 to a corner
and nailed on the skew. Counter-
sink the heads with a nail-
punch and putty the holes.
Have your own supply of good-
quality whiting and linseed-oil;
it is not hard to make your own
putty and a lot more convenient.
With a rasp round the four
corners. It makes a box better
to handle, exposes less vulner-
able edge to weather conditions
and —what is important in the
event of selling—looks well. To
complete the job, redlead, paint
one or two coats of a good oil
paint, then silvafros. You’ll get
40 years out of it with care.
Hints for the Farm.
“A. Jay”: Red - mite of
poultry feeds only at night, and
lives in cracks and crevices
during the day. Perches should
be sprayed or painted with creo-
sote at three - day intervals
until no further mites are seen.
To control lice choose a calm
night, and before the birds go
to roost run a trickle of 40 p.c.
nicotine - sulphate along the
perches. Two or three treat-
ments should be given at weekly
intervals.
“Billjim”: When vaccinating
sheep make sure needles are
sterilised, and do only six sheep
with each; keep a freshly-steri-
lised needle for filling the syringe
to avoid contamination of vac-
cine ; insert needle carefully
just under the skin ; don’t treat
wet sheep ; don’t vaccinate after
having skinned or handled dead
sheep a few days earlier ; scrub
the hands thoroughly and don’t
handle the tip of the needle ;
the operator should not handle
sheep being vaccinated.
“C.A.A.”: Chinese-cabbage,
a succulent vegetable, can be
sown from November to
February, as it flourishes in
warm weather. It is most use-
ful in districts where restricted
water - supply makes lettuce -
growing difficult, and it is a
good substitute for lettuce in
salads.
“Rooster”: Smooth globe or
canning tomatoes generally can
be grown without any pruning
in the bush form in Victoria.
Others, growing as climbers, re-
quire heavy pruning. It’s best
to study the habits of the par-
ticular variety you’re growing,
as faulty pruning detracts from
the yield and quality.
“Sundowner”; To maintain a
regular supply of beans sow
every three to four weeks from
October to January. Lime will
probably be required. Apply at
|lb. to to the square yard.
Otherwise, if the soil be rich the
only other fertiliser needed will
be a light dressing of super., |lb.
per square yard worked into the
top 4in. of soil.
“W. Court”: Best way to get
the taste of kerosene out of a
newly-emptied tin (B. 25/10/’50)
is to upend the tin (with top
cut out) over burning paper.
Lift the tin slightly now and then
to admit air, and feed in more
paper. The inside of the tin
will be somewhat blackened, but
this will wash off. All traces of
oil will be burned out.


■
Wi
Hi
m
.'C
m
m
m
111
iil
m
y
\>
\\y
VICTORY OVER TIME
n
ULTRA-FLAT • SHOCK-RESISTANT • ANTIMAGNETIC • HERMETIC CROWN
To wear an Omega Automatic is to be assured of absoluy:' mastery over
Time. You can banish all care from your mind, confident that your watch is
always running and always right. For the Automatic is a self-winding wrist
chronometer .which need never be wound,up, and which stores away a reserve
of 36 hours’, running power! What better labour-saving device could one wish
for ?, What better safeguard against* life’s little difficulties? And you can'be
proud of owning a watch famous the world over for its unfailing accuracy.
Faithful to their longstanding traditions. Omega's designers have brought off
fyel another feat of skill by 4 fitting the 4 wonderful A
[anlu I t'lfllflfL perfectly, styledand*of”the utmosFelegahce.y
df
Wherever precision selects the
champions, Omega is always
present! Three times in
succession Omega has been
appointed the official timekeeper
of the Olympic Games Los
Angeles, 1932; Berlin, 1936;
London, 1948. And it was Omega
that acclaimed the victors of
the greatest event of 1950—the
British Empire Games that
stirred the hearts of 550 million
human beings throughout & the
Commonwealth jof Nations. f
d
ALL THE WORLD ' TRUSTS OMECAj
cake.” Their lack of response
made him feel that they were
either deaf or spoke another
language, so unconsciously he
lapsed into pidgin-English.
“Nicey cake. Eatum nicey cake
all up.” He pointed at the cake
and then at his mouth and
chewed vigorously. The starving
blacks did not twitch a muscle
but stood on one leg like scare-
crows on broomsticks, their
tattered clothes hanging from
their skinny arms in streamers.
“Oh, they’ve got our cream
cake,” hissed Pen, overcome with
horror.
* “Ha, so you’re home, you
heathens,” cried the father, re-
lieved at the interruption, but
uncomfortable at the same time.
“Now, Marian,” he commanded,
“come here beside me and see
what’ll fit them.” He picked up
a fawn coat and holding it in
front of him walked up and
down the veranda in front of the
children, squinting first to one
side of it and then to the other
till he had satisfied himself that
it would fit the second child,
“Here,” he said, giving it to
Marian. “Give it to her.” He
indicated the child with a
peremptory nod. Then he went
back to the pile of clothes. His
next choice raised a wail from Pen.
“You can’t have that. I use
that for wild Indian tribing.” He
hesitated, then dropped it to one
side and picked up a red flannel
dress. “You can’t have that!”
cried Jane. “That’s my holly-
berry fairy dress.”
“What! ” he cried, exasperated.
“Would you see these children
die of pneumonia?”
From the kitchen came the
mother’s acidulous remark, “I
doubt whether they’re that short
of clothes.”
After ten minutes or so, six
garments were selected; then
the father tried to persuade the
children to put the clothes on
before they left.
“On they go,” he cried, en-
thusiastically ; but that’s just
what they didn’t do. With the
wedge of cream cake in one hand
and the garment in the other,
the children, opaque-eyed, traced
a couple of circles in the dust of
the path with their big toes,
then almost imperceptibly backed
away from the veranda. Up
the path they edged, past the
lucerne-tree and the everlasting-
P ea > round garage, and then,
in a swirl of skinny legs and
tattered garments, through the
back gate.
“They’re morons,” declared
the father, disgusted.
“You mean you are,” said the
mother.
“A nice Christian attitude
you adopt towards those blacks,”
he said.
“You mark my words,” an-
nounced the mother. “Those
blacks aren’t in need of any
clothing or food or sympathy,
If they’re still in rags it’s be-
cause it suits them to be in rags,
I have a feeling there’s some
very funny business going on.
You just mark my words!”
| UST then the front-doorbell
rang. It was Mr. Mellor and
his two supporters. The father
was summoned, and the men sat
down in the living-room. “Have
you been?” asked the father.
“Disgraceful,” boomed Mr.
Mellor. “Some drastic action
will have to be taken immedi-
ately. I’m going down to
Donaldson this afternoon.”
“You better make it tonight,”
laughed the father. “He’ll be
mooning around those cattle of
his this afternoon, if I know him.”
“He’ll have to stop mooning
around his cattle then and clear
that scum out of town right
away. If ever I saw a criminal
type it’s one of those two men
—the older one.”
“Did you tell them they’d have
to go?”
Mellor laughed ironically,
“Did I tell them? I nearly burst
a blood-vessel telling them. I
told them we’d all be along for
rifle practice next Wednesday
afternoon and that anyone who
was on the range was there at
his own risk. But I might as
well have been talking to
Barney’s boar. All he did was
shake his head and mumble.”
“Then how’s Donaldson going
to shift them?”
There was a silence. This, in-
deed, was the question to which
there was no answer. At last
Mellor said moodily, “That’s his
worry—thank God.”
For the rest of the day the
father wandered restlessly about
his domain. First he sat on the
front veranda; then he sat in
the living - room. After ten
minutes he went out and scythed
for a while. He cut about a
square yard, then sat on a stump,
He dug around a couple of fruit-
trees ; sawed a few lengths of
wood. At last, about four
o’clock, he called the children
and asked them would they like
roasted corn for tea. Of course
there was only one answer to
this, so with a sigh of relief the
mother saw them start off for
Tristram’s corn paddock over the
valley. She thought prayerfully,
“Of course he won’t find any at
this time of the year, but he
might get those starving blacks
out of his system by the time he
gets back.”
This proved too optimistic a
thought, for even while they were
stacking the dishes from the tea-
table he was at the phone ring-
ing up Mr. Mellon
“Oh, is that you?” he began
sonorously, digging his chin on
to his chest and jingling a few
coins in a pocket. “I’ve been
thinking about those blacks.
Now, those children. You can’t
hound children from one place
to another. Something should
be done about them. Have you
rung Donaldson?”
The answer was obviously
irate, because the father lifted
the receiver away from his ear.
At last he said “Oh, he’ll be
back tonight. His wife won’t
stay there by herself at night.
Well, what I was going to say
was, what about suggesting to
him that he get in touch with
whoever looks after the welfare
of the aboriginal children and
try to make some satisfactory
arrangement about them?”
“If you’re worried about
them, then ask him yourself,”
boomed the voice. “I haven’t
any desire to wet-nurse those
little monsters.”
When the father had rung off
he walked round and round the
veranda. When he came in he
said he had been looking at the
lights, but his family knew that
Mr. Mellor had angered him,
and at last it came out.
“It’s all very well for Mellor
to sit in comfort and with a
full belly and say those kids are
all right.”
“Now, dear,” ventured his
wife. “Stop dwelling on them.
Mr. Mellor is probably quite
right. They are probably per-
fectly happy.”
“What!” cried the father,
aghast at such inhumanity.
Pen said in a matter-of-fact
voice, “When no one’s looking
they’re having great fun. I’ve
seen them.”
“I don’t believe it,” stated the
father flatly. “And why aren’t
you children in bed? It’s eight
o’clock. Go on. Off you go
immediately!”
BY nightfall of the next day
everyone in the town knew
that the blacks had disappeared
from the district. . Sergeant
Donaldson and the constable
had gone up about midday to
find only an empty shelter and
debris, and, of course, the smell.
Then, late in the afternoon, poor
old Father Cronin spent two
hours searching in vain for his
horse. The next day several of
his flock rode here and there
about the countryside search-
ing, but the old mare was no-
where to be seen; and the
search was eventually abandoned
when Michael Tennant (who
lived down at Brandy Creek
Crossing) reported to the police
that his buggy had been stolen.
Barry Wilkinson, Halliday’s
carter, summed up the mystery
graphically: “ ’Struth! How’d
you expect them poor critturs
to carry off that swag on them
skinny spindles? ’Ave a ’eart.
You don’t want the town to get
a lousy name, d’you?”
The starving blacks, the horse
and the buggy were never seen
again by anyone of that district,
although inquiries were made by
the police on the tablelands and
up and down the coast.
The mystery was given a final
piquant spice by only one inci-
dent. At Christmas the Venables
family was holidaying af the
seaside, and walking down the
street one day Pen espied in a
secondhand shop a line of
clothes, all neatly pressed and
hanging on coathangers. There,
in pride of first place, was Polly
Trimble’s velveteen dress, com-
plete to the last bow.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£180,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Tacks,
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
"WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It's good.
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
Box Tt, Talley P. 0., Brisbane.
om -
Alia UO 133 MS
ONVZNI3
f
Missing Friends.
WOULDTaNOE REWA PAUL or BASIL
FREDERICK PAUL, formerly of New
Zealand, or anyone knowing their where-
abouts, please communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Welling-
ton, New Zealand.
JACK LOCKINGTON
(full name JOHN BOWEN LOCKINGTON)
formerly of 7 Norton Street, Sydney, son
of Teresa and late Fred Lockington, of
Melbourne, or ANY PERSON KNOWING
HIS WHEREABOUTS, please communi-
cate with GORDON RENNICK, Solicitor,
339 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRASER WILLIAM BRUNNER late
of 25 Bayview Street Bronte in the State
of New South Wales.—-TAKE NOTICE
that RITA GWENETH BRUNNER has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3970 of
1950 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney on or before the Ist day of February
1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. NICHOL-
SON & BUTLER, Solicitors, 28 Bridge
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Throw
your weight
in the balance
far peace and prosperity
df
On paper the total resources of the free nations and their
potential strength in a world-wide war would seem to outweigh
the pooled resources of the Communist states. But in armed
manpower marshalled and posted to a strategic master plan,
in weapons and supplies conveniently located near the world s
political danger spots, the forces of aggression are a formidable
threat to peace and freedom.
No one can tell how and where the next lightning stroke of
aggression may be launched. All that we know with certainty
is that Australia’s best assurance of peace and prosperity lies in
the immediate building up of her defence forces for co-operation
in the united effort of the democracies.
Never before in peace time has there been so urgent a need for
action, and so little excuse for self-interest, apathy and com-
placency! Every man of military age should enlist now for
full-time or part-time service in the Navy, the Army, or the
Air Force.
All others must share in the vital task of increasing output to
meet the rising tide of defence and civilian demands.
Think! Fight! Wort!
tuurd fa tfa Government of the Com,mo»wea{th of 4tt*tralin
PR46.m-lW
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Lyric writer who has written
national anthem for A.B.C. competi-
tion would like to get in touch with
musical composer willing to collabo-
rate in joint entry.—49s7.
Information Supplied.
4097: The question of how to
break a cat from the habit of catch-
ing birds was put to Brian Vesey-
Fitzgerald, the naturalist and editor
of “The Field,” at his home in
Farnham, Surrey, England, by a friend
distressed at the slaughter of birds
made tame by winter feeding. Vesey-
Fitzgerald’s observations were pub-
lished in the “Surrey and Hants
News” of June 12, 1947, and read;
“The only way to train a cat to
leave birds alone is to tie a bell round
its neck wjhen it is first allowed loose
in the garden under observation as a
kitten. The kitten will not connect
the hurried retreat of the with
the noise of its bell, but with its own
presence, and will soon give up
chasing them. In fact, I have known
cases in which a ‘belled’ kitten,
within a few days, has given up
chasing birds for life* To attempt
to train a grown cat, however, is
useless, and can only result in cruelty.
The hunter-cat knows that he has
caught birds without a bell, and will
soon leam to stalk them without
ringing it. The chances are that he
will have hanged himself on a branch
with the bell-collar before the night’s
out.”—W. F. L.
Information Sought.
(1) On what basis is the price of
tin produced by Australian mines
fixed? (2) What is the present price
of tin on the Australian market ?
(3) Does the present high price of tin
on overseas markets have any effect
on Australian prices?
(1) The price is fixed by the various
State Prices Ministers, presumably on
the strength of representations by
both producers and consumers, but
what formula is adopted in arriving
at the fixed Australian domestic price
is not divulged. (2) Present fixed
maximum prices in Australia are £740
per ton for producers and £800 per
ton selling-price to consumers. (3)
The present sale-price in Australia of
£800 per ton was fixed on September
4, 1950, when tin in London was
selling at £731 5s. stg. (£A914 Is. 3d.)
per ton. Latest price in London
(it is subject to rapid change of
late) is £1107 10s. stg., equal to
£A1384 7s. 6d. per ton. Present high
world price has so far not been
reflected in the Australian fixed price.
* * * ♦
Some particulars about Modigliani
the painter?
Amadeo Modigliani, Italian painter
and sculptor, was born at Leghorn
in 1884, and was part Jew, part
Italian. He studied in the Latin
quarter, Paris, in which city he
settled. He made a special study of
primitive art, and as a young man
produced some sculptures which
showed the influence of negro masks.
His work classes him as one of the
real leaders in modernism in art. It
is highly original, and his paintings
are remarkable for the curiously-
elongated heads of their subjects. In
his time he seems to have been the
idol of the Latin quarter, but drink
and consumption killed him in 1920.
* » * *
When and by whom was J. S.
Fry and Sons, the cocoa and choco-
late firm, established. A few details
about its growth ?
It was established in 1728, and was
founded in Bristol by Joseph Fry, an
18th-century Quaker, who was also
interested in the making of soap and
pottery, and type-founding. Many
large factories were erected for the
business in Bristol, but these proved
insufficient, and between the First and
Second World Wars they transferred
their activities to Somerdale, situated
in the country between the cities of
Bristol and Bath. Today these fac-
tories house the most modern
machinery, and the workers are em-
ployed under conditions which pro-
vide a pattern for all industry. The
firm has been a recipient of royal
favor since granted letters patent in
1729 by George II.
♦ * * *
What are the Hibbert lectures?
A course of lectures first begun in
1878. They were instituted by the
trustees of a Jamaica merchant,
Robert Hibbert (1770-1849), who left
money for the founding of scholar-
ships, particularly for Unitarians.
Until the year 1878 the money was
used solely for this purpose, but in
that year the trustees decided to begin
the lectures for the purpose of dis-
cussing, and if possible settling,
doubtful points of religion, quite
apart from any sect. The first series
was given by Prof, Max Muller, and
since then the lecturers have included
Renouf, Renan, Kuenen, Beard,
Reville, Pfleiderer, Sayce and Hatch.
The “Hibbert Journal,” financed by
the trust, was founded in 1902.
Brief Answers.
A.D.: The song “You’re Break-
ing My Heart” is based on another
song, “Mattinata” by Ruggiero Leon-
cavallo, which was copyrighted in
1904 R.L.: Oliver Twist was first
published in 1837. Your edition was
not published until 30 years later, and
has no particular value
The species referred to is probably
Passiflora ligularis. Although a large
fruit, it has not met with commercial
success on account of its unattractive
color and failure to hold its flavor,
which rapidly becomes insipid after
picking. The fruit is grown to some
extent in its native countries, Mexico
and parts of Central America, where
it meets with a certain amount of
fav0r....A.8.M.: (1) The lines are
from Thomas Gray’s “Elegy m a
Country Churchyard.” (2) Yes, it
has been proved by archasologists that
there existed much earlier forms of
culture than those of the Inca in
Peru. Particulars will be found in
any of the standard ancient histories
of the country.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice ( except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS, No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
uS Zm"ps M £colany re ""MS
sa srsussrs
G. 8.: “Death Takes a Rest Cure”
—not in our pages L.J.H.: We’ve
had our fill of stories about lost
weekends....J.P.: Situation calls for
a light touch, not that heavy-handed
treatment M W S • Don’t like the
SI hut ‘ to note that he
Story, out pleased to note mat uc
beat the station bully, won a lottery
and became engaged to the squatter’s
daughter within 24 hours of taking-up
residence in the jackeroo’s quarters.
... .Bellerive: Congratulations upon
your recovery, and best wishes: —
W.L.: You write about King’s
Cross like one who was born in,
and has never left, Tibooburra
A.M.J,: Lawson did a similar story
about a race through the night to
save a dying child very much better.
... .R. 8.: Countless Manly-ferry pas-
sengers have had more exciting trips
across Sydney heads S.D.M.H.:
It follows the usual pattern of surf-
rescue stories T.F.: What is it,
a story or a mathematical puzzle?
Black Derry; Come in and get
it off your chest: —
L.R.C.: Hero might have stepped
out f t £ e P Tn° f
novelette 1.D.. Covering; letters
are not necessary, especially the kind
that take up two pages to praise the
contribution... .E.W.: We had only
to read the opening sentence — Tim
Q’Dea, known throughout the force
< r • riemnn ’ was the
* s to
f lown & £. e homicide squad —to
know mat limotny was destined tor
the w.p.b.
ON DECK AGAIN.
(Written while slowly wearing down the
effects of a critical illness ; I survived by
the providence of God, the skill of a
good doctor and gentle nursing of my
wife.)
Like a buffeted craft
Nearing the final port
I’m drifting along like
A true old sport.
Straight from a bed
Of sickness and pain,
With spirit unbroken
I’m writing again.
NEARLY.
I was droving when I wrote it —
It’s too long to fully quote it —
’Twas a poem that made a very sad
comparison
(Lord, how “Banjo’s” bones must shiver!)
’Twixt “The Man from Snowy River,”
Who rode, you will remember, under
Harrison.
And ’tween the Snowy River Boys
Whom the Government employs
Under Hudson, on the Snowy Mountain
Scheme;
How they wear, not spurs, but gumboots,
And fancy kinds of zoot-suits
To work at leisure on this Government
aream.
fo^"’
tte P hilMdeTt g a t snailing crawling
Dow " “ e . hlllslde at a snailing ’ crawling
How ' the ’ dim and distant hills
Echo back) nQt whipg> but drillg(
And the bursting blasts that break the
mountain face.
So I typed it out and mailed it
To The Bulletin ; friends hailed it
As a poem that drew the picture very
clearly.
But I think I should have burned it.
For they speedily returned it,
And in the corner, at the top, was written
“Nearly.”
Nqw m to know so dearly
j ugt bow rea py c i ose j s nearly—
j a( j it’s really nice of them! to grade
it .
Nearly in, or nearly right?
Nearly, nearly, but not quite?
Gome to work it out I guess I nearly
made it!
within an ace, an inch of ?
Just the salt another pinch of?
Almost there, wellnigh, but just a little
short of?
* d ssp, i ~*~* t *?**~


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Wages Bill
Most of our newspapers carry well-
publicised accounts of the earnings of
big public companies, of dividends paid
and reserves held. There is understand-
able pride of achievement behind the
headlines, but it is misguided and mis-
leading unless the figures are balanced on
the other side by their relation to th
annual wages and salaries paid. That i
the one item which never seems to be on
display, yet lack of it has furnished th
trouble-mongers and strike-raisers wit i
too many opportunities to exploit wha
they term “the profit motive.”
Every public accountant who handle
the books of countless hard-working smal
partnerships and family concerns car
testify to the comparative meagreness o '
net profit as compared with costs anc
wages. He also knows how the loading
of wages by only a few shillings per man
per week can whittle the net profit ou
of existence.
With big trading and manufacturing
concerns, the annual bill for wages anc
salaries is so huge in comparison with
invested capital that, again, even an
apparently large dividend as related to
the latter would be blown sky-high anc
transformed into staggering loss anc
bankruptcy if the mis-leaders of the
unions got everything they asked for in
the Arbitration Court.
Even decent working men are often
taken in by the old, insidious propaganda
on “iniquitous profits” and repeat the
catch-phrases when they read of increased
company earnings.
All companies, when publishing their
figures, should set out in good black prim:
the amount of annual wages and salaries
paid and their relationship to profits. It
is the only way to drive home the fact
that there is a limit to the burdens, strains
and blows that “prosperity” can absorb
—W. W. (Vic.).
Nepal and the Gurkhas
The sacking of the puppet hereditary
ruler of Nepal by the hereditary Prime
Minister brings into focus a small inde-
pendent State which, for centuries, has
been one of Britain’s sources of military
power in Asia. The famous fighting
Gurkhas are Nepalese,
This small State, together with Bhutan
and the narrow tip of the Indian
province of Sikkim, between them form
the barrier between India’s n.-e. frontier
and Tibet. From Darjeeling, in Sikkim,
8000 ft. up, I have looked across the
valley to Kichenjunga’s eternal snows on
the edge of the roof of the world. I
have ridden mountain ponies up Tiger
Hill and seen Mount Everest’s icy cone
100 miles away to the west, gleaming
pink in the light of early dawn. This is
an awe-inspiring land where grandeur is
supreme.
Nepal’s main source of revenue has
been the supply of mercenary soldiers to
the British raj. Almost every civil official
holds high Army rank to which they’ve
been promoted on service and which
they deserved.
The Gurkhas fought alongside the
A.I.F. on Gallipoli and in France, and,
such is their faith in themselves, and
such is their admiration for other fight-
ing soldiers, they honored the Australians
by calling them “the White Gurkhas.”
The 2nd A.I.F. also knew and respected
these fighting Asians.
Armed and trained to British Army
standards the Gurkhas still carry, their
traditional and very useful weapon, the
kukri. It is a beautifully-balanced type
of machete which they use with a swing-
ing stroke. The front edge is curved and
the weight is well forward. The kukri has
ceremonial uses as well as being a fight-
ing weapon. The Gurkhas draw their
rations on the hoof; the sheep must be
decapitated by a single stroke. The kukri
is never drawn from the sheath without
drawing blood. I’ve seen Gurkhas nick-
ing themselves before sheathing the blade
after cleaning and sharpening.
By modern standards Nepal is a back-
ward country. There are few roads and
no railway. Reportedly only one aero-
plane has ever landed in Nepal. Yet I
suppose the Gurkhas are about the most-
travelled people in Asia by reason of
their Army service.
If Nepal goes Red, Britain’s Labor
Government, can be blamed. With the
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
surrender of the British Empire in Asia
the Gurkhas feel they have lost their
inspirational leader, the British raj—his
Majesty the King—whose uniform they
have worn for centuries, and whose
decorations they prize so much and whose
bounty has been so liberal.— Wilken
(N.S.W.).
Road Wear
I don’t mind “R.HG.” (B. 4/10/’5O)
assailing my slide-rule, my views or my
conclusions. I quoted from an authorita-
tive article dealing with the current de-
struction of the American highway
system by heavy trucks, and the only
conclusion I drew was the fairly reason-
able one that heavy road-haulage had
developed far beyond the ability of any
road to carry it. At the same time The
Bulletin itself was expressing editorial
concern at the destruction of the N. S.
Wales highways, and suggested that some
measure of restriction on heavy vehicles
might prove necessary.
That destruction is real can hardly
be disputed, but “R.H.G.” won’t have it
that the trucks are to blame —“The road
transport hasn’t yet been built on
pneumatic tyres that can break up roads
when they are made of the proper
INFORMATION
“How Would you suggest I give her the slip?”
materials and based on mother earth
itsejf.” To what then would he attribute
the damage? Mice? Is he really going
to compare his gravel and bjue-metal and
his standard of traffic density with, say,
the Pennsylvania Turnpike, or is that
astronomically costly structure “not made
of the proper materials”?
The slide-rule explains it like this. All
surface transport ultimately rests on the
bosom of mother earth, who will stand
just so much loading before yielding, the
yield point depending on the charac-
teristics of the underlying soil. You can
reduce the wear on her face by covering
it with hard-wearing material, stone or
gravel, and you can effect an improve-
ment by binding the materials with tar,
bitumen or rubber, but such surfacing
has no cohesion, no inherent strength.
Overload it and the old girl yields.
Concrete is better because, up to its
limits, it does allow the load to be dis-
tributed, but exceed that limit and the
same thing must happen and the slab,
being inflexible, fractures. That’s what is
happening in the U.S.A., and I don’t
want to see it happen in Australia —not at
£A130,000 a mile for repairs.—
Transporticus (Singapore).
Car-insurance
Once again the motorist is called upon
to pay more for his car-insurance, the
main reason given for the latest increase
being the large number of claims made
on the companies. It means that the
careful driver is again to suffer for the
careless and reckless one who, knowing
that he is covered by insurance, does not
worry about what damage is done to his
car or to other people’s cars. If he
claims on his insurance company he
merely loses the 20 per cent, no-claim
bonus.
The way to penalise the careless
motorist and, at the same time, assist in
reducing the accident-rate, lies in a
sliding-scale of premiums instead of the
fixed-rate and the no-claim bonus.
Under such a scheme a motorist would
pay a fixed sum for the first year and, if
he made no claim, receive the 20 per cent,
no-claim bonus. If he made a claim he
would be compelled to pay an extra 20
per cent, for the following year. For
each succeeding year the motorist who
consistently had no claim would receive
a further five per cent, no-claim bonus,
while if the offender had a claim in the
second year he would be penalised a
further five per cent.
In that way the careful motorist would,
after five years of no claims, receive his
cover for 40 per cent, less than the
normal fixed scale, while the consistent
offender would be paying 40 per cent,
above it. And that would be a just state
of affairs.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
The Senate
While there is talk of a double-dis-
solution, there should also be before the
public mind measures to abolish
altogether that bad imitation of the House
of Lords —the “soapbox” Senate.
There is a pleasing fiction that an
Upper House in a “House of Review” —a
safeguard against hasty legislation; and
other things, but in actual fact it is a
worthless and expensive institution.
The House of Lords may have some
excuse for continuing to exist. It has a
long history and tradition behind it going
back into the era of feudalism, when it
was the virtual ruler of the country. In
spite of progressive emasculation it did
serve a controlling purpose during the last
century when there were as many parties
in the House of Commons as fleas on a
dog.
We have no such traditions, nor have
we a plethora of parties as England once
had. We have broadly only two clearly
defined parties with equally clear-cut
policies, and an Upper House functions
much as an expensive luxury. It
creates nothing, it initiates nothing, and
it reviews nothing. It is governed by
party policy, and if its majority coincides
with its own party majority in the Lower
House it becomes no more than a
redundant echo of the other place. If
its majority is opposed to that of the
Lower House it is obstructionist and mis-
chievous. It should be abolished
altogether.— Sardonicus (W.A.).
An Invitation
As one who! has followed the debate
betwteen “Transporticus”. and those who
prefer road to railway transport, at the
same time being impressed by “TVs”
economic theories on rail transport, may
I invite him to state, as briefly as pos-
sible, what he would do with, for
instance, the N. S. Wales Railways if
given absolute control of them and, alter-
natively, what he would do with all trans-
port if given the same absolute control?
—Transhipper (N.S.W.).
“Wages and Prices”
J. Henry (B. 8/11/’5O) blames the
worker for inflation, but he’s only partly
right.
“J.H.” seems to begrudge the
worker his 10-12 days’ paid annual leave,
but don’t the owners have their holidays
and continue to collect their share of
profits?
The same applies to sick-pay. No one
wants to be sick, but when illness leaves
a man unable to work he should be paid
the five days according to the award, if
for no other reason than to provide
necessities for his wife and children. An
owner’s business does not stop produc-
ing and making profits on the days he is
unable to attend his duties.
I don’t know of any union that allows
10 minutes to wash —several allow fiv
minutes, but these are concerned wit
exceptionally dirty trades.
As for morning- (or afternoon-) te
break, it is as much in the interests of tl
employer as the worker. Any industrial
psychologist will agree that such brea
actually raise production. The spell
invigorating and, with the thought o]
“Only a quarter of an hour then
cuppa,” the worker will continue at
good speed until the whistle, instead o:
growling about “Another three hours
go,” and slowing up.
“J.H.” admits “The sum total of pro
duction costs is, of course, a charge o
the consumer.” Of course it is, because
as “J.H.” says in the next breath, “N
business or Government enterprises ca
run long at a loss.” But to blame th
worker entirely for increasing costs
unfair. He may he getting higher wage
without working as fast as he has in th
past, but owners are receiving cor
respondingly high profits.
The days of slavery are not so fa
past. The old type of slavery passed ou
of progressive countries long ago, bu
they were replaced during the depression
with a kind of civilised slavery. One
reason why the worker refuses to work
at his fastest now is that he doesn’t wan
a return of overproduction and depres
sion conditions. The early ’thirties are
still vivid in his mind.
And, on top of that, of course, there is
the militant element instigating an-
tagonism between worker and employer
and preventing the willing man from
using his initiative, enterprise and energy
The way to higher production anc
lower prices is not to deprive the worker
of his holidays, sick-pay and morning
or afternoon breaks, but to remove the
subversive elements. — Hacken (Vic.).
Controls
When Australians refused to give the
Chifley Government the right to impose
permanently its temporary war-time
controls, they were very clear and definite
in their refusal. They knew what they
were doing, and there is no reason to
believe that they think any differently
now. Any suggestion that they do,
coming from the Labor camp at
Canberra, has probably been hatched in
the same nest as the new outbreak of
British socialisation.
Latest developments in Britain bear
out the contention that inevitably the
system of government favored by
Labor must enslave the workers. The
people refused to believe that such a
situation could arise in a British country,
holding that only peoples like the
Russians and the temperamentalists of
Europe could be thus enslaved. Yet, if
the British Labor Government succeeds
in its attempt to impose permanent
controls over production, distribution,
consumption, employment, prices, export
trade, shipping, building and industry in
general, then the substitution for govern-
ment of committees elected by the unions
is only a step away.
Communism in Britain will have be-
come an accomplished fact. Moreover,
it will have been introduced peacefully,
under the guise of Labor Socialism—step
by step, and silently and insidiously, as
it was being introduced by Chifley, Evatt
and co. But for all that it will have
bound the British people as tightly as the
bonds forced upon Eastern European
countries by bloody revolution.
Given the right conditions in which to
work, the insidiousness of Communism
can overwhelm any people. The condi-
tions were imposed on the British and
Australian people during the last war in
the name of national security and war
effort. Since then, like a parasitic growth,
they have sapped our strength, devitalised
us and regimented us until many of the
freest people in the world have actually
become afraid of freedom, and have
submitted tamely and ignominiously to
the almost total abrogation of their rights
as individuals. — Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Neglected Areas
Lack of adequate transport prevents
the far south coast of N.S.W. from con-
tributing fresh vegetables to the Sydney
market. The Bega district is rich and
capable of producing large quantities of
potatoes, pumpkins, beans and other
vegetables, but, because of the lack of
transport, only a fraction of what could
be produced is grown.
At present vegetables have to be taken
to Bega by whatever private transport
the grower has, then they have to be
transferred to motor-lorries for transport
to the railhead at Nowra, from where
they are railed to Sydney.
Extension of the railway from Nowra
to Eden would provide transport for all
the farm produce along this far south
coast, getting it to market with the least
possible handling.—W- R X (N.S.W,).


refused assistance, one of her reasons
being that she has had the impudence to
assume the name of Mrs. Birling. It
then turns out that it is her own son who,
in a dissolute moment, became the
father of the unborn infant. Haying
elicited these answers to his questions
the inspector departed, and up to this
point all one could say about Mr.
Priestley’s opus was that it was good
old-fashioned melodrama that might have
been dated 1890.
In the third act a phone-call to the
near-by infirmary reveals that the police-
inspector wasn’t a police-inspector and
that no girl had suicided. All the Birling
family except the son and daughter feel
a weight lifted off their consciences, and
become extremely jolly until the tele-
phone rings and a voice informs them
that the dead body of a girl named
Birling has just been admitted to the
infirmary, and a police-inspector is on his
way to question the Birling family.
So Mr. Priestley’s play became an
interesting comment on human nature,
and came suddenly to life even in the Tin
Alley Players’ presentation. John Hehir,
Gwen Reid, Yvonne Bert, Wynn Roberts,
John Redrup and Collins Hilton, who
admirably sustained the role of the ques-
tioning inspector, were sufficiently them-
selves to be sufficiently the Buffings.
"Ice Follie."
Back on the frozen stage of His
Majesty’s Theatre, Melbourne, Armand
Perren’s “Ice Follie” show looks more
like a Tivoli bill on knife-edges than ever.
Chribi, Wim de Jong, Jacques Cartaux
and Joe Whitehouse whizz around with
brooms and buckets as mad charladies ;
Elimar, the debonair Prince of Jugglers,
whizzes around doing things that would
be sufficiently amazing if his feet were
solidly planted on terra-firma ; Monsieur
Perren and the lovely Marion Davies
whizz around carving figures-of-eight
with a speed factor of 90; the skating
equivalent of the Tiv. lovelies rush about
as Canadians, Parisiennes and Hawaiians,
and M. Perren as Pierrot and Marika
Saary as a doll perform a tragedy of
sentiment and pathos.
There are fresh marvels for the theatre-
goer every minute, or as long as his see-
ing and perceiving apparatus can stand
the strain of constant movement.
TALKIES
"No Way Out."
Two brothers, cheap young hoodlums,
attempting to rob a garage, are interrupted
ay a policeman, who wounds each of them
in the leg; they are taken to the police
ward of a large' general hospital where a
young negro doctor is on duty. He
notices that one of them shows symptoms
of something worse than a minor bullet
wound and is examining him for a sus-
pected brain tumor when he dies. The
surviving brother, a vicious, semi-human
animal with an almost psychopathic
hatred of negroes, refuses to accept the
medical diagnosis and believes that the
doctor deliberately killed his brother and
promises to kill him at the first oppor-
tunity.
That is the situation which opens “No
Way Out” (20th Century Fox at Sydney
Regent), which purports to deal with
Uncle Sam’s negro problem. The
story carries on with the doctor,
anxious to prove fais diagnosis but
unable to obtain an autopsy with-
out the brother’s consent, giving him-
self up to the police along with a con-
fession of murder so that the law itself
will demand 1 a post-mortem examination.
The examination proves that the doctor's
opinion was the right one, but fails to
convince the young hoodlum, who escapes,
attempts to murder the doctor and has
his own life saved again by the same man
when the bullet wound in his leg tears
open.
It is all a very emotional business, but
it doesn’t touch very deeply on the prob-
lem it is supposed to discuss—-much die
same story could have been told with a
negro or a white man feeling the
same way about a white doctor. It is,
actually, a story of feelings and obsessions
which could crop up in any human being,
irrespective of race or color, and which
are not particularly related to racial
prejudice. The other point which detracts
from any weight the film might carry as
a discussion of the negro question is that
it deals with exceptional cases —a brilliant
young doctor and a moronic white man
obsessed to the verge of insanity —instead
of with relations between normal, every-
day whites and negroes.
About the only time the film seems to
approach the core of its subject is in the
young doctor’s urgent request for an
autopsy to prove that his diagnosis was
correct. In this he shows not only the
anxiety to convince his associates and the
dead man’s brother, but an even greater
anxiety to convince himself, to beat down
the last glimmerings of his own feeling of
inferiority. In that one senses, thanks to
the excellent acting, at least one of the
ingredients of the negro problem, which,
if one may presume to judge from this
distance, seems to be the matter of
15.000. negroes increasing faster than
the whites in a total population of
150.000. and, at the same time, trying
a little self-consciously to grow out of a
heritage of servitude to the whites. The
growing-out process seems to rest in their
own hands as much as anybody’s, and,
judging by their achievements in com-
merce, professional and other spheres,
they seem to be going the right way about
it. The racial prejudice they encounter
is an obstacle where it infects normal
people and not when it manifests itself
in such psychopathic cases as represented
in this film.
Still, if the film doesn’t get very close
to the root of its matter it at least adds
up to a passably compelling drama, mainly
because of the admirable performances of
Richard Widmark, as the vicious young
white larrikin with all his fears and hates
and cunning, and of Sydney Poitier as [he
doctor. It also has, in the smouldering
prelude to a street battle between negroes
and whites, and in the fight itself, a touch
of the drama and atmosphere that helped
to make a masterpiece of the filmed
version of “The In Conner.”
* "The Perfect Woman."
Such as expect to see “The Perfect
Woman” are inevitably condemned to dis-
appointment, for the idea is not new, as
witness Pygmalion and Galatea, and “The
Tales of Hoffman” ; but such as have
found it possible to live with a dis-
appointment should g;et plenty of amuse-
ment from the talkie farce on this subject
at Sydney Embassy, in which Miles
Mallison, as an absent-minded professor,
has invented a beautiful robot with the
“The rest of my tribe are down with the 'flu.”
face and form of his niece, and has paid
a penniless young man-about-town, Nigel
Patrick, and his valet, Stanley Holloway,
to take it out and pass it off in a London
hotel as human.
Patricia Roc, as the stay-at-home niece,
decides to stand-in for the robot, and
her efforts to simulate the mechanism,
which can move its arms and legs in
response to code-words, but cannot talk,
are the main part of the entertainment.
Holloway stays a little in the back-
ground as' the matey manservant; and
the best humor in the piece is in the
character-acting of Mallison and the
several appearances of an unhappy Swiss
waiter who knows little of English or of
waiting —he is, if anything, slightly better
than the rest of the show.
"Task Force."
Warner Brothers produced this current
Sydney Plaza item —a long and rather
sprawling film which auns at tracing the
establishment and development of air-
craft-carriers in the U.S. Navy and, along
with that, giving the story of a deter-
mined young man (Gaty Cooper) who
rose from being one of the original naval
pilots to commanding an aircraft-carrier.
The combination is not altogether as
happy as might be expected, and it often
seems that the story of the private life
of Mr. Cooper is getting in the way of
the story of aircraft-carriers, and vice
versa, despite the use of various devices,
including off-stage voices, to bond them
together. After Mr. Cooper has run the
course of getting married and climbing
the arduous way to senior rank, and after
the aircraft-carriers have weathered the
attacks of politicians and isolationist
newspaper barons, the film suddenly
changes from black-and-white to techni-
color and plunges into the war in the
Pacific, where it justifies both Mr. Cooper
and tire carriers.
These latter passages have a good deal
of dramatic spectacle about them, and a
lot of them seem to have been culled
from official films of actual battle
several of the shots have already been
seen in newsreels.
Cooper gives his customary' easy,
natural performance and is aided by a
string of capable players, including Jane
Wyatt, Walter Brennan and Bruce
Bennett, most of whom seem subdued
almost to naturalness by the weight of
uniforms and gold braid.
"Let's Dance."
One generally goes along to see Fred
Astaire mainly for his precise, nimble
dancing and* Betty Hutton for her
exuberant, slightly raucous enthusiasm.
Both performers with their respective
qualities are well in evidence in this
current offering at Sydney Prince
Edward, so one cannot fairly complain.
One cannot complain, for instance, that
the story on which the entertainment is
mounted is the kind of thing that would
probably bring a bellow of complaint
even from the nursery. Or that Miss
Hutton —as a tender-hearted widow
escaping with her child from her Boston
in-laws and trying to earn a crust by
dancing and singing in a nightclub what
time the chef, waiters, dancing girls and
other incidental characters frustrate the
efforts of the police to capture the child
for the in-laws —seems about as probable
as Betty Grable playing Florence Night-
ingale. .
No. One should not complain and,
therefore, one does not. One concedes
that Astaire does some extraordinary
business with his feet, dancing around
and up and over pianos and other furni-
ture, while Miss Hutton hurls her ditties
at the audience with her irresistible or,
perhaps, unavoidable enthusiasm. And,
with that, one must be satisfied.
"Love Happy."
This latest record of the antics of the
Brothers Marx (Sydney Esquire) does not
seem quite as amusing as earlier efforts,
possibly because the trio appear to be
trying extremely hard to be extremely
funny, or possibly because Harpo, who
has most of the film to himself, is only
one-third as funny as the three of them
together, >
The nonsense they play with concerns
the Romanov diamonds smuggled into
America in a tin of sardines which is
shoplifted by Harpo in the cause of pro-
viding a battling theatrical company with
victuals and given to the leading dancer
of the outfit, who is then set upon by
Melville Cooper and other hirelings of
villainous and beautiful Ilona Massey.
Harpo puts a lot of diligent and some-
times highly amusing clowning into the
business, Chico turns on one of his
dexterous performances at a piano, and
Groucho appears briefly at the beginning
and end of the doings as “a near-sighted
private eye.” But it’s a long way be-
tween those highlights.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 97
Across-
I— This bird takes fermented honey
and spices and a nightbird to a
flood-proof craft. (10)
6—Eager with a sixpence. (4)
kl—Fabric edge and a piece of telling-
off. (9)
ll German king makes the black-
fellow’s wife all right in return. (5)
I -~You will often find a judge or a
barrister under one to scold. (3)
13—Number. (3)
JJ-Hat ring in Venice. (4)
18—Provide instruction with money in
extreme ease. (7)
'■Secular members of a religious
brotherhood with orange-shaped
bodies. (7)
-u-Road-maker backing a carrier of
21 ?l a £ Ue - (3 >
xa—Hall can disturb Macquarie in
such a stream. (7)
II Immigrants from France—from
0/t 'heir point of view. (7)
A vessel is partly open. (4)
3 A State of the U.S.A.—or no one
» particular. (3)
26-Era. (3)
Artist’s equipment achieves com-
fort by fifty. (5)
30 —phis is so backward to find an
oyster. (9)
32 —Insect returning a strong charac-
teristic taste. (4)
33_ Study the jail associate in a
married manner. (10)
Down.
1— English beach to spoil the en-
trance. (7)
2 Serpents like a corresponding
afterthought. (4)
3 Ring eleven on Diana with a rur
that can be “rusted.” (10)
4 Suggested by the prankless ver-
sion of 1 across. (3)
5 Communist bars of metal with
two directions for coats. (10)
7 —Vehicle to take a seat with a
loose woman in the bay. of north-
west Western Australia. (10)
g—People who speak two languages
and put the spade through build-
ing allotments. (7)
9 —Heavens. (3) .
15— Chew with custom in an illus-
trious liar of fiction. (10)
16 — Green plant and a pea in spec-
tacles in an island of the Gulf of
Guinea. (8, 2)
17 — They inspect your ticket on the
train when mobsters take to the
air. (6, 4)
21— Thinnest residence for 1 across. (7)
23—The number is level in the pig’s
dwelling. (7)
27 — One of the diptera to become a
fugitive carriage of light weight. (3)
28 — Source of water-supply is not otf
color. (4)
31 —what sort of Mahal is at Agra? (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 96.


That
boy of
yours
B' : ,:
,:v /S
;..V ;
mm
•• ■
i'V
sS
mmm
Mmm
mmmmi
■v : -;v •
H. | ■;;
mmmm
•r-
-m
.
m-
mSm m ;
;; C:
'
>m
0
■'
U
*'
fm
m
m
:
S* o s | W& %
Wm
TTE will carry on your name. You have
brought him up with affection and care,
and you want him to have the best possible start
for his career ... a position in the steel
industry.
He will keep that happy outlook as oppor-
tunities open up before him ... as the industry’s
Staff Training Scheme fits him for promotion.
Australia’s ever-developing steel industry has
big plans for the future, plans in which your
boy can take a successful and secure part. Give
him this chance.
There are vacancies available now for
technical trainees and trade apprentices to start
in 1951.
Call, write or phone The Broken Hill
Proprietary Co. Ltd. today for further details
at any of the offices or works at Melbourne,
Newcastle, Whyalla, Sydney, x4delaide, Brisbane
and Perth.
Your local B.H.P. manager will be glad to
help your boy plan an interest-packed career as
an engineer, metallurgist, chemist or highly
skilled tradesman in the steel industry.
There’s a future for him in the steel industry
