

The Bulletin
"The Bulletin,” Vol. 71 No. 3656
Wednesday, March 8, 1950
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
THE GEORGE INN, OLDEST OF ENGLAND’S LICENSED TAVERNS
English inn has a great tradition, for down through the
centuries its hospitality has been remarked upon by the overseas
traveller to Britain. Its hey-day was in the coaching era, when the
inns along the great coaching roads flourished and expanded to
meet the demands of the ever-increasing road traffic. The inns
played their part in two world wars, and many of those who visited
Britain during the war years remember some snug bar or quaint
little roadside inn with affection.
One of these may well be The George, at Norton St. Philip, an
ancient village near Bath. The George is one of the most remark-
able hostels in Somerset, for it was licensed as an ale-house in 1397.
Its long stone-built ground floor is topped by two stories of timber
and plaster work. The casement windows above and the grey stone
roof are pleasing features of this ancient building, and the arched
doorway in the centre leads to a courtyard which is overlooked by
a gallery. The celebrated diarist Samuel Pepys was entertained at
The George in June, 1668.
Norton St. Philip was the scene of a sharp skirmish between
the Duke of Monmouth’s forces and the royalists under the Duke
of Grafton during the rebellion in 1685. Monmouth spent the
night before the Battle of Sedgemoor (July 6, 1685) at The Qeorge
at Norton St. Philip; the following morning, while dressing before
a window, he was fired on and missed by a sniper, at whose hands
he would probably have had a more merciful death than the one he
was later to suffer.
GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


McMK^’g'SKS"
This Book FREE to YOU I
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL-
Picas € send,' without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to IVnte for Profit mt
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.” ‘ ‘
My Name
My Address
S.B. 150 AGE
The Red Page
OGRES AND FAIRIES.
Paul Nash, the English painter who died
of heart-failure in his sleep in 1946, took
his stand among the rebels and wild men
of contemporary art, and his autobio-
graphy, Outline (Faber), makes it clear
that he regarded his appointment as an
official war artist in 1940 with much the
same pained surprise—though for a
different reason —as did many of the
public. What was to become of revolu-
tion if it was made respectable in this
way?
Nash got his appointment to paint
aeroplanes because an intelligent official
remembered one of his paintings—some
sort of a descent into the abyss—which
showed an ability to make creatures or
objects move* convincingly through the
air ; and also, no doubt, his stark and
dramatic pictures of the 1914 war,
somewhat under cubist influence, were
not forgotten. Even in black-and-white
reproduction in this volume “The Menin
Road” brings home its statement of ruin,
desolation and nightmare with powerful
impact.
But Outline supplies other reasons for
regarding this outlandish art as not so
very remote from the familiar tradition
after all. Indeed it appears that Nash’s
variety of surrealism, in which, towards
the end of his career, magnolias were to
take to the air and fly about like peri-
patetic moons and a sunflower, magnified
to gigantic proportions, would stand on
its rim on a hillside and stare the sun out
of countenance, had its roots in the most
innocent of sources imaginable: the
fairytales of the brothers Grimm ; and
after that in the mysticism that was so
strangely mixed up with the laborious
fidelity to nature of the pre-Raphaelites.
A totally unexpected and amusing
theme running through Outline is Nash’s
detestation of J. M. Barrie. You meet it
at the beginning of the book:
I was fortunate in being bom some time
before Barrie took over Kensington Gar-
dens. You could look at a tree without
misgiving; it was unlikely ever to resolve
into something by Mr. Rackham. The place
was not infested by fairies.
And you meet it again at the end:
Although I grew up before the Grand
Master of Whimsy had wrought his dubious
fairytale of Peter Pan
Nash never quite explains why the un-
fortunate Master of Whimsy gets in his
hair like this, but from the general tenor
of his book the reason is perfectly clear:
he wanted to paint fairies himself.
His early drawings, which are pretty
dreadful, purported to convey “visions.”
A giant face of a woman, after the
manner of Blake, would appear in the
sunset sky, her hair streaming along the
clouds. A pale-faced lady, languorous
and lorn, and lifted straight from
Rossetti, would go stumbling through the
woods at midnight, staring back at the
spectator over her shoulder with the eyes
of a deceased cow. Nash himself, though
perhaps he retained a natural affection
for his own work, seems to regard these
drawings with some amusement. He re-
calls showing them to W. B. Yeats, who,
having at that time the sole ownership
of all British fairies, asked him, “Did you
really see these things”; and showing
them to the publisher Elkin Matthews,
who was equally dubious:
He was a little sallow man with tortoise?
like eyes. When I showed him the giantess
in the night sky he remarked with con-
descension, “Ah, a very pretty conceit!”
“Conceit!” I echoed indignantly. “It is a
vision.”
The artist changed his tactics. No
more giantesses; no more fays lying
asleep in the cornfields; no more
Beatrices at midnight in the woods. But
he did not change his purpose: the pur-
suit of the supernatural. Now it was to
be expressed solely in natural terms, in
drawings of the landscape which em-
bodied the “spirit” of the place:
I had already made a drawing of the
Bird Garden, which I exhibited at the
Slade sketch club and subsequently gave to
Claude Miller. It was undoubtedly the
first place which expressed for m e some-
thing more than its natural features seemed
to contain, something which the ancients
spoke of as genius loci —the spirit of a
place, but something which did not suggest
that the place was haunted or inhabited
by a genie in the physical sense. Like the
territory in Kensington Gardens which I
found as a child, its magic lay within itself,
implicated in its own design and its
relationship to its surroundings. In addi-
tion, it seemed to respond in a dramatic *
way to the influence of light. There were
moments when, through this agency, the
place took on a startling beauty, a beauty
tp my eyes wholly unreal. It was this
“unreality,” or rather this reality of another
aspect of the accepted world, this mystery
of clarity which was at once so elusive
and so positive, that I now began to pursue
and which from that moment drew me
into itself and absorbed my life.
This is. of course, the point at which
Nash really parts company from Barrie,
for between the sentimentality of his
giantess and the sentimentality of Peter
Pan there is not so much difference as
the youthful “visionary” would have
wished. Henceforth his landscape would
have no fairies. But it would retain,
'hough not in the ready-made shape of
Arthur Rackham’s admirable witches,
more than a hint of ogres. For Nash’s
aim in landscape was not simply to find
the “spirit of the place” (which might, as
in a Percy Lindsay landscape, be
supremely happy) but to find what was
“startling” ; what was, in the surrealist
term he adopted, “disquieting.”
In other contemporary paintings, while
fairies had gone out of fashion, there
were plenty of ogres. And these took
tangible shape.
Nash recalls a night spent at “Eddie”
Marsh’s flat among his prodigious
collection of paintings, lining the
corridors and covering every inch of
wall-space in every room, including the
tiny guest-room:
There was a consistency of subject which
I found disconcerting. Apparently there
had been a recent phase among the English
progressives which might have been called
the apotheosis of the dwarf. Groups of
dwarfs by Gertler and Spencer seemed to
menace me from every wall; while on eye-
level with the sleeper in bed was a large
oil painting by the latter of small men with
small heads in the likeness of the Spencer
family, who were thrusting their arms out
in the most realistic manner. With this
powerful but, to me, terrifying picture,
staring me out of countenance up to the
last moment before I put out the light, I
sank into an uneasy sleep, which was finally
invaded by a strange high-pitched voice
“Beware! Beware!” sounded in a high
passionate voice. Close at hand from the
bathroom came the voice declaiming shrilly
“His flashing eyes, his floating hair!
Weave a circle round him thrice,
And close your eyes with holy dread,
For he on honey-dew hath fed,
And drunk the milk of Paradise.”
It was Eddie’s habit to recite poetry in his
bath at the top of his voice every morning.
Nash refrained from adding to the
population of dwarfs. Reading his essays
expounding his art which are included in
the autobiography you would think,
indeed, that he came perilously close to
the manufacture of visible ogres in the
Rackham manner, for the fallen trees of
“Monster Field” had assumed or
acquired, he says, “the personality of
monsters” ; when he was painting Clifton
Suspension Bridge “the idea of giants
obsessed my mind” and the smoke of a
passing train looked like “a white snake
disappearing into a cave” ; the Wellington
bomber looked like a whale, the Whitley
like “a dove of death” and the Blenheim
like a shark —“it shows clearly a mouth,
two wide nostrils, a beaked nose and at
least one glaring eyeball.”
But that is in his talk about his
paintings more than in the paint-
ings themselves. A Nash bomber
looks remarkably like a bomber ;* and if
the train in “The Giant’s Stride” does
look a bit like a dragon it is just enough
like it to look dramatic, but not enough
to evoke the detested approval of Rack-
ham and Barrie. Nash’s “disquiet” is, on
the whole, an abstract disquiet; it is a
modern fairytale for an age which does
not believe much in tangible gods or
devils, but which does believe in Some-
thing. He found the “disquieting” most
powerfully in the “weird beauty” of the
battlefields of the Great War: which
indeed were disquieting enough to make
it inevitable that images of horror,
whether expressed in terms of dwarfs or
broken tree-stumps, would manifest them-
selves in the art of our time.
What sort of man was this teller of
modern fairytales in whose paintings even
a flying magnolia is supposed to have a
purport faintly sinister as well as
beautiful, and who was once inspired to
a picture by hearing, as he walked in his
garden, “b r eaking off the dying, dark,
ethereal flowers of a favorite poisonous
plant,” the mysterious sentence spoken in
his ear, “Last night heavy and medium
hellebores bombed the mountains of the
moon”? His autobiography, which was
never completed, breaking off in 1918 and
filled out here by some essays and letters,
is beautifully .and most lucidly written,
nothing less than exquisite in some of its
descriptions of the countryside. It gives
a few lively and witty portraits of his con-
temporaries, and, in the letters to his wife
from France, it contains as fine a piece
of war-writing as the present reviewer has
seen, remarkable for the clear-sighted
honesty with which the artist describes
the stimulating as well as the horrifying
aspects of war.
And, meticulously, almost clinically, it
conveys a fine self-portrait, with some-
thing profoundly English about it: of a
sensitive, solitary man who served his
country in two world wars ; who endured
ragging at school and developed prowess
af football; who, though he afterwards
expanded into a wide hat and Harris-
tweed cloak, attended the first exhibition
of his drawings in correct morning-dress,
spats and topper; who liked best to
wander alone in the country; who cared
little, really, for anyone’s paintings except
his own and was equally indifferent to
Augustus John and Matisse; who was
always capable of writing about himself,
as he wrote of others, with ironical
amusement; and who, in manhood as in
boyhood, never ceased hoping to surprise
a fairy in Kensington Gardens . . . but
not the sort of fairies bred by J. M.
Barrie.
Novel Diplomacy,
In his new novel, The Diplomat (The
Bodley Head), James Aldridge has
found a new and English model
to get him out of the Hemingway
and American rut into which he fell
in Signed With Their Honor, his first
book. This new, 700-page book has
smoothness and finish, and so casual and
acquainted a way of speaking of rare
things like Persian miniatures and the
finer points of Wordsworthian criticism
that, as the product of an Australian
newspaperman who finished it in his
thirtieth year, having spent most of the
previous 11 years as a war correspondent
in Russia, Norway, Greece, Iran and the
Middle East, it must seem surprising.
That such a young Australian should
also get into the skin of a British diplo-
mat of the first rank, a lord and an
aristocrat, and explain, while putting a
knife in his heart, what makes him tick,
must seem not only surprising but im-
possible. Nevertheless Aldridge may
have seen a great deal of British diplo-
mats of the calibre of “Lord Essex”
during his war-corresponding; and his
picture of a brilliant and in some ways
unscrupulous mind at work on inter-
national problems is supported by many
carefully-observed details (Lord Essex’s
habit of kicking off his shoes in his office
at the British Embassy and standing in
his socks by the fireplace, for instance)
which make an at least fictionally per-
suasive, a well-rounded character suit-
able for the large-scale Hollywood pro-
duction at which the book is probably
directed.
In the same way the book’s political
theorising, which proceeds on as danger-
ous lines as some of its adventures, tends
to artistic effect as well as to propa-
ganda. Lord Essex is shown in Russia
attempting to provoke an incident by
accusing Russia of stirring up revolution
in Iran; Molotov, Vyshinsky and Stalin
are shown as level-headed and beneficent
old gentlemen anxious- only that Lord
Essex should visit Iran himself and see
that there was no Russian influence be-
hind the revolt. Lord Essex-is shown in
Iran using his tour to promise aid to the
counter-revolutionaries and discussing
the value of a religious revival for estab-
lishing a Government favorable to British
interests.
With him to Russia and Iran, Lord
Essex takes a young geologist, Mac-
Gregor, born of a Scots father in Iran.
Having spent most of his life in Iran,
MacGregor fought with British forces in
World War 11, and at the end of the war
was working for the India Office, from
which he was sent to be Lord Essex’s
Iranian expert.
From the first page the book is a duel
between Lord Essex, a diplomat of the
old and hard school, concerned only with
getting the wood on the Russians for an
eventual United Nations showdown, and
MacGregor, a scientist, concerned only
with establishing fact—and the fact
which Mr. Aldridge allows to emerge
more and more plainly is that the Iran
revolutionaries want a Government which
will stand up against all outside interests
and educate and elevate the Iranian
people.
Slowly the book’s main theme comes
to the surface: Should a boy tell? And
it is resolved in London when Mac-
Gregor, having seen his factual report of
the Iranian situation suppressed and
Lord Essex’s unsupported contention that
Russia was meddling in Iran acclaimed,
writes a letter to the “Times.” As Mac-
Gregor’s chief at the India Office sum-
marises the matter:
“I would point out, young man, that it’s
serious enough when a public servant takes
himself to the Press, .but it’s quite critical
when he publicly contradicts and embar-
rasses a superior, attacks a British govern-
ment policy, hazards a whole diplomatic
mission and suggests that his Government
is involved in blackguardly dealing with
another State ”
Which is a pretty full bill; and the care
with which the young scientist’s dilemma
is elaborated may give the book a niche
beside The Paradine Case, in which
Robert Hitchens showed a barrister, in
love with his client, tearing her to pieces
m jealous rage in the witness-box and
making her confess the crime for which
he was there to defend her.
Not only is Aldridge’s book a political
duel between Essex and MacGregor, but
a sensitive account of their battle’ for
the affections of the diplomatic and
aristocratic Katharine Clive ; it is also a
book of people: many Russian notabili-
ties, and perhaps some Persian and
Indian notabilities, are seen in action;
and a book of adventure, with a first-
class account of the siege of an Irania.
Governor in his residence, a kidnapping
of Essex, MacGregor and the Clive gi
by Kurds ; and a full-dress row' in th
House of Commons.
That so many themes with such
popular and contemporary appeal shoul
be so well worked together argues
shrewd mind, # and probably the politic
have been shrewdly adjusted to mirror \
contemporary and popular dream rathe
than the realities of the internationa
situation.
Prizes for Poefry .
The Arts Council of Great Britain is
offering, in connection with the British
Festival, 1951, prizes for poetry totalling
£llOO, for which any citizen of the
British Commonwealth may compete.
(a) A prize of £5OO (sterling) for a single
poem in English of not less than 300 lines;
and
( b ) Prizes totalling £6OO (sterling) divis-
able by the judges among not more than
twelve poets for a collection of between six
and twelve short poems in English, no
single poem to exceed 50 lines in length.
The judges are Sir Kenneth Clark, Pro-
fessor C. M. Bowra, Lord David Cecil,
Mr. John Hayward, Mr. George Rylands
and Mr. Basil Willey. There is no limita-
tion of subject in either competition.
Entries should be sent to the Arts
Council of Great Britain, 4 St. James-
square, London, S.W.I, not later than
December 31, 1950.
The Arts Council is also offering a
£2OO prize for music to a young composer
for the composition of a work in con-
certante style. Application forms and full
details are available from the British
Council, 104 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Color of Morning: Evelyn
Quinlan (Herbert Jenkins Ltd.). Novel
about a Melbourne art student who looks
like a Greek god and is going to be a
genius; he deserts his faithful girl-
friend, sins and glitters about the country
and, as a prisoner in Malaya, loses his
painting-hand ; whereupon, a sadder and
a wiser man, he takes to teaching as a
substitute for art and marries the still-
faithful girl-friend. Too highfalutin
and melodramatic to bear any real
resemblance to the life of art students m
Melbourne, but readers of women’s
magazines may take it to their hearts.
♦ * * *
One Half So Precious: Audrey Fram
(Hale —Shakspeare Head). A Londr
reprint (first edition, 1944) of the story
Saul Chesterton, the bad husband w
migrated from England with his go
wife in the middle of last century a
grew grapes and pressed wine in So;
Australia. There are stirring scenes wl
Mrs. Chesterton has a baby during
passage out, Mr. Chesterton bfeing for
solacing himself with the low-life Be
Williams on the comer of the poop ; ai
later on there is an awkward prob
when Betsy’s son wants to marry Sa
daughter and Saul has to confess to
wife that Betsy’s son is his son too
After which the novel tails-off into
history of the family against a backgroi
of South Australian and world histo
evidently how the vintner lives, like w
the vintner buys, is not so precious as :
wine he sells.
* ♦ * •
Degas Dancers: Lillian Browse (Fab
A large, thick, beautifully-produc--
volume with over 300 illustrations to
black and white and 12 color-plates. A
long introduction gives an account of the
artist’s life, with glimpses of his con-
temporaries and with special reference to
his interest in the ballet. The purpose
of the book, which it fulfils once and
for all, is to present Degas as the great
painter of the ballet, and it is intended to
appeal both to art-lovers and balleto-
manes.


'RUTH
IN ADVERTISING'*
n
Anthony Horderns’
Ashton Hand Saws
i -• / ' »>•-!
“Ashton” English Skew Back Hand Saws
available in 26in. x 6-, 7- and 8-point. 40/-
■
Washita Oilstones
Washita Oilstones, Gin. x 2in. x lin. 12/6
“Footprint” Pipe Wrenches
“Footprint” Pipe Wrenches, size 16in. 19/6
■ - - _
p' ■
m
fm ;
. - ■•
;
,
?> *‘ ;*- * . ••. ■. ,;d
■HMi
•*!
;> ? .
'A
\ :
, To ' 'J
*
■:
m£
wasayy
. - <:
>
i
• 'r *»/-*, V
■;*>; •
//,
»!> X %, .'*/ x Vm.%k
m '"'l
’^rsrry
»vrvw
m
rv»v»
Efficient Workmanship Demands
7'^
<S!a
m liis. *
«* >
I
wa
H
*=sv
"•I::::
.Sft
Finest Quality Tools
Stanley Hand Drills, No. 805, capacity priced at 21/-
Farriers’ Hammers, made in England are priced at only 6/6 each
Eng. Stillson Pipe Wrenches, 10in., 14/6: 18in., 27/6; 24in., 47/6
“Shaw’s” six-wheel Glass Cutter, made in England, price 3/- each
Skinner Carpenters’ Ratchet Braces, No. 206 x lOin. sweep. 26/-
Smooth Wood Planes, made in England, price 20/6 for 2in. size
No. 2 “Vulcan” American Chain Tongs, cap. pipe. 67/6
English Carpenters’ Adzes are 10/- ea. for size No. 1; 10/6, No. 2
* X
TOOL DEPT.-LOWER PITT ST. M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


CORRIGAN'S CATTLE
BY
JOHN
FOUNTAIN
SPANISH CORRIGAN sat in state
on the wooden top of the under-
ground tank in the cool of the late
November evening. He was sitting
with his black eyes facing the blind side
of the big stark barn of a stone house,
his back to the bullocks, settling down
among the horse-and-man-high Gundagai
thistles on the other side of the lane,
beyond the white homestead fence. To-
morrow they would start on their yearly
trip to the mountains, to the snow lease.
The cows and calves had gone already.
They would come out again in March,
before the first snow.
Through Spanish’s tranquil mind cattle
wandered, cows, heifers, frisky calves, fat
bullocks, scarred old bulls; red cattle
with white faces, the Corrigan Herefords,
the generations of his youth and early
manhood. It took a certain effort of
will to restrain himself from getting up
and having another look at the bullocks.
But he knew his weakness ; he didn’t
want to be laughed at —a fussy old man.
And, besides, there was eighteen stone of
Spanish Corrigan seated on the cool
boards.
It was pleasant here, the slight breeze
sprung up from the river fanning the
back of his neck. He had been in to
town, to go to the bank and to pick
up the permit for travelling stock. His
suit-coat hung inside the house, in the
dark hallway, beside the plaited green-
hide halter, under the photograph of Red
Toro of Toomalong, the first bull he had
won a prize with. Spanish sat in his
white shirt-sleeves and waistcoat, the
gold watch-chain dangling over his
enormous belly, gross dewlap hanging
over the open shirt. The tie, and the
collar, carefully starched and ironed by
his wife, was thrown, carelessly, on the
concrete beside his elegantly pointed,
polished black boots ; their polish filmed,
now, by the red summer dust.
Sarah, his wife, used to polish his
boots, too. It was something that began
as a labor of devotion, and ended as
habit. But when Don, his son, came back
from Queensland he put a stop to that.
Don spoke a few sharp words to Alan,
the younger boy, and now Alan cleaned
the collection of sharp-toed black boots.
The job kept Alan reasonably busy, for
Spanish was always going somewhere. To
town, to sales, or races or shows.
When Alan came to think of it, he
could see that it was right he should
clean his father’s boots, wrong for his
mother to be obliged to do it. But he
would never have thought about it at
all if Don hadn’t spoken. It seemed
natural for his mother to clean his
father’s boots,' as it was normal for her
to do the housework ; to cook for the
shearers at shearing-time, while Spanish
lorded it in the shed, and to ask humbly
for a few shillings spending-money when
they went to town.
Not that Spanish was mean. His name
figured largely in subscription-lists for
charity. He was open-handed in bars. It
was just the proper distribution of labor
and rewards between the sexes, according
to Spanish’s way of thinking. And Sarah
Corrigan was meek.
Something else in the inevitable nature
of things was the custom of Spanish eat-
ing by himself in the dining-room, while
Alan and his mother ate in the kitchen.
When Don came back from Queensland
he tried to change that, too. But his
mother always made some excuse or
other, and finally Don let the matter drop
SPANISH resisted the temptation to
turn round and have a peep at the
red bodies moving through the dry
thistles, kept his black eyes on Don, who
Has washing his bloody hands in an
aluminium basin. Don had just killed a
sheep.
“Y’ give old Bill half that sheep?”
Spanish said. His voice was hoarse, as
though from much shouting.
Don didn’t look up. “Yes.”
“H-m-m.” It was more than a sigh—
an immense breathing-out, with a hint of
menace in it. Spanish crossed his legs,
one pointed black boot dancing. He took
out a cigar, carefully bit the end off and
spat it out violently. Then he began
fumbling in his waistcoat-pocket for a
match. Reg Stowe offered him one.
“Thanks, Reg.”
The mountain man looked extraordi-
narily fair beside the dark Corrigans,
with freckles on his big hands, reddish
skin and guileless blue eyes. Reg had
arrived a week ago with a packhorse that
had hardly lost its winter coat, riding a
solid little dark cob, trailed by a pair
of woolly red dogs, more Border Collie
than kelpie,
Alan, who had heard great tales of
Reg’s skill and daring, found it hard to
credit them, watching him gossiping like
an old woman in the kitchen, drinking
endless cups of tea: “Yes, Mrs. Corri-
gan,” “No, Mrs. Corrigan,” “Don’t mind
if I do, Mrs. Corrigan.” Talking about
this one’s marriage and that one’s birth
with a slight eager stutter, laughing im-
moderately at the feeblest jokes, small dis-
colored teeth gleaming over a long heavy
jaw. “That’s a good one, Mrs. Cor-
rigan ! ” Freckled ham of a hand slapping
a saddle-stained knee.
Alan, sitting between his father and
Reg, making himself as small as possible,
was thirteen. He had the Corrigan olive
skin, black hair, black eyes. “Your
fathers eyes,” an old lady had told him,
accosting him and Don in a distant town.
A highly respectable lady ; and not, per-
haps, so very old. A spry, grey-haired,
fifty, she had been attending a church
stall in the street, and had asked them
to buy a ticket in the raffle for the ham.
Then, staring hard, “You’re not Spanish
Corrigan’s boys, are you—Mr, James
Corrigan, of Toomalong?”
They admitted it, each in his own
fashion. Alan embarrassed, a shade
apologetic ; Don with that change in his
manner that had come with liim from
Queensland. An ease of speech, and a
touch of cool reserve. Once Don, con-
fronted with such a question, would have
been darkly sullen. Now he lifted his
hat like an hidalgo of Old Spain. “Indeed
we are, madam. And who shall I say
was asking after the old gentleman?”
The lady flushed, or seemed to, beneath
her elderly mask. “Mary Purdy,” she
murmured, like a young girl. “That was.
But perhaps—oh, I’m sure your father
wouldn’t remember me. So many years
ago. I remember him well, though-
riding through Normantown with his
cattle. Your Grandfather Corrigan was
alive then. And how is your dear
mother?”
“Very well, thank you,” Alan said,
while Don smiled.
“You have your father’s eyes,” the
lady said, looking at Alan, “And you,
young man,” turning to Don, whose light-
blue eyes gleamed ironically, “have his
walk. I’d have picked you both any-
where,”
L_l E must have been handsome then,
A 1 Spanish Corrigan, to sting the
memories of grey-haired ladies at church
stalls. It was hard to believe now. The
gross Spanish sitting slump-shouldered on
the tank-top, a gold chain dangling from
his enormous belly, mocked all memories
of young love, of fervent whispers under
the willows. Only the eyes, dominating,
black, round, set in the fiery flush of
vein-enmeshed flesh like two jewels in an
unwholesome pudding, remained to re-
mind tender ladies of the black-browed,
laughing Spaniard who had come through
Normantown, and a hundred other towns,
behind his cattle.
They called him “Spanish,” even then,
laughingly; and, laughing, young James
Corrigan spun fantasies about that old
lady he had never seen, the Spanish
grandmother who had reared ten children
in the bark hut near Parramatta and was
buried beside her hardworking husband,
James Corrigan, of County Cork. “Who
knows?” young James Corrigan had said,
swinging the small, high-arched foot that
was the family brand. “Who knows but
that the proudest blood of Castile doesn’t
flow in me veins—mixed up with
the blood of Ireland?”
Who knew, indeed? A pity Spanish’s
father had never learned to read and
write, had brought no more than a
shadowy memory of a mystery about his
foreign mother with him when he crossed
the Great Dividing Range with his tiny
herd of cattle, four horses, a bullock-
wagon and a sixteen-year-old wife.
Privately, Spanish thought his father a
man unfitted for greatness. It wasn’t
until the old man died that Spanish began
to boast about him, too. For his father,
after all, had been one of the first white
men in’’the district—one of the first five.
He had selected shrewdly, worked hard,
and his little herd had multiplied. He
was, in fact, a pioneer, and pioneers
were just beginning to become scarce
enough to be popular.
In this period great changes had come
over the country. ® The Robertson Land
Act had given the family their start, and
gold and booms kept them sailing along
before a fair wind of prosperity. Two
brothers died; a third was bought out
by Spanish, and drifted to the city.
Young Spanish gambled on cattle, and
made money. OThen, weathering the
inevitable slum]?’ he spread his money.
In city properties, sheep, mining shares.
But he still bred cattle. The Corrigan
were famous.
A SHREWD man, Spanish Corrigan,
people said, when* his name was
mentioned anywhere between the Two
Rivers. Hard, too. Hard on his wife.
Hard on his two boys. There was a kind
of murmured applause throughout the
district when Don cleared out for Queens-
land after a blazing row with his father ;
there were some incredulous looks when
he came back. No one had expected
Spanish to open his door to him again.
But in their surprise the onlookers under-
rated Spanish’s intelligence, and his pride.
For Don hadn’t come crawling back like
a mendicant. He had come to Toom-
along in his own car, well-dressed, with
money in his pocket. He had put up at
the best hotel, and driven out to see his
mother.
Spanish had greeted him casually,
looked at him hard. The light-blue eyes
didn’t flinch. Spanish took in the clothes
—he knew about tfie money. He knew,
indeed, more than Don suspected about
those five years in Queensland; knew
and approved. Just for fun he dropped
a hint or two—looking up from the paper
while Don and his mother were talking.
“How’s the feed up in the Gulf Coun-
try?” and “Have any trouble with those
wethers of Morrison’s at St. George?”
Don’s replies were careful and modest.
He didn’t boast about the money he had
saved, or of his other achievements.
Spanish waited until Sarah went out
into the kitchen to make tea, and then
made Don a proposition. Wages and a
bonus out of the wool clip if he stayed.
A fair offer, with no threat of post-
humous revenge if Don refused. Spanish
satisfied that h® Has not making a
mistake, and in forming his judgment
he relied on neither hearsay nor exter-
nals. There was Don’s manner, sips
subtle but plain enough to a sharp dark
eye that could read men. Don had
changed from the wild youth who came
back from college kicking like a half-
broken colt against the firm harness of
the traditional way, Spanish’s way. Some-
thing deeper and firmer that spelt success.
Spanish admired success and hated failure
with an almost personal passion.
College had not, as Spanish had pre-
dicted when Sarah had tearfully prevailed
upon him to send Don “to the Brothers,”
“spoilt him for the land.” It was one
of the few times in Sarah’s downtrodden
life that she had made an effective stand.
But perhaps Spanish had wanted him to
go all the time —thinking, perhaps, that
education, although a frilly extravagance,
was only meet for a descendant of Spanish
nobles —and was using Sarah as a
mechanism for making the decision. An
alter ego who could be conveniently
abused if things went wrong.
If not,' Spanish adapted himself to
Don’s college career remarkably well.
Mentioning casually in town, “That boy
of mine got picked for the first football
team.” Or cricket team, as the case
might be. Listening to the G.P.S. foot-
ball, the wireless turned on full blast.
Don came back from school as inter-
ested in horses as he had ever been.
Spanish grumbled over the growing string
of Don’s horses “eatin’ the flamin’ place
out,” but took pride in the boy’s skill.
Don.was a natural horseman, and began
breaking-in a few for profit. Spanish
liked to go down to the yards and watch
Don, advancing hand-over-hand along the
taut plaited rope, tall and steady and easy,
the young thing standing, trembling and
snorting, but bending to his will.
At shows, when Don was riding in the
buckjump events, in the camp-draft, or
bull-dogging, Spanish would swell when
some cattleman from beyond the Two
Rivers iyould say “That your boy,
Spanish?” “Yes,” he would say, flicking
ash from his cigar. “Damned young fool
Break his neck some day.” And he
would think: Blood will tell. Glancing
with sour pride at Hughes and Pallman,
those well-groomed representatives of the
squattocracy. What could their sons o
—for all their fine manners, and station
homesteads, and hot and cold water.
Hughes and Pallman, if they saw him,
smiled and nodded. Old Spanish was a
character.
ENTHRONED in his sagging cane-
chair, spitting into the fire it
winter-time, and the wind was moa 5
in the pines outside the sbu ] wiod o
Spanish studied Don with hard bl ackey_
The boy had changed. Where before
there had been heat and fire, now ther
was also coolness and depth. So .
else, too, sardonic and alert; but Sp
didn’t bother his head about tha .
was a cattleman, not a psychology ,
he was concerned in engaging am ■ .
wanted an overseer and an heir
would be a credit to him. .^ e
“AU right," Don said, s taring
flames. Then he made h,s flret
tion. “I think you should run
Sh The old Spanish flared up. “ N^ y ° t o
mind thinking. You re not paid
right!” Don was standing
smiling. “Have it your own waY ay
big shoulders swung f ide [ n the
and Spanish heard him outside m
kitchen, talking to his mother. ide
So Don’s sports car was
Spanish’s new Hudson under
skins and cornsacks and
((Continued on page. 20.}


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3656
Wednesday, March 8,1950
BoLußft
[Strike
V
xX,
\
A SPANNER FOR THE WORKS.
"The workers are not going to fall for the flapdoodle nonsense about co-operation between workers and employers in industry."—Mr. Calwell.
“Carry on, Comrade!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior P- H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Co i
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE SENATE.
No indication has yet been given by the
Commonwealth Government of the
course it proposes to take to settle the
Senate impasse, but settled it will have
to The speeches so far delivered by
members of the Opposition, par-
ticularly that on the Address-in-
reply by Mr. Calwell, show what
can be expected. Mr. Chifley and
his followers obviously propose to
fight tooth and claw, with their Senate
majority as their weapon, every move
for which the electors gave Mr. Menzies
authority. They have abandoned con-
stitutionalism. Their one objective is to
win the “class-war,” a policy in which
they have the full backing of the Red
unions. And the Government cannot go
very far without reaching a deadlock on
some vital subject, one which will have
to be dealt with under the Constitution
with the help of the Governor-General—
Mr, McKell.
It will not be then merely a matter of
disciplining the Senate to meet the wishes
of the people as expressed at the polls,
but of reforming it to make it work. At
present, as pointed out here more than
once, a double-dissolution, the consti-
tutional remedy for senatorial obstinacy,
can only result in a perpetual deadlock,
since Dr. Evatt saw to it in his recon-
struction of the upper chamber that
under the proportional - representation
system a full election must produce
equally-balanced numbers on each side of
the House unless a landslide of propor-
tions never before seen should occur.
Caucus veterans must have known that
they had under their hands a weapon
which would assure them a majority in
the Senate even in the midst of a disas-
trous defeat. And they must have been
aware that what they were doing was to
drive one more nail into the coffin of
the Senate, which their platform pledges
them to abolish, striking one more blow
at State sovereignty, taking one more step
towards that age of totalitarian Socialism
which each one of them is formally
pledged to bring about.
There need be no doubt, that if “Labor”
is again returned to power the Senate
will be destroyed, and in its present con-
dition it might just as well be. Even
apart from its present composition, so
out of line with electoral opinion, it has
become a mere obstruction which bears
no real relationship to the purposes for
which it was created. Constitutionally
the Senate is the House of the States,
devised to protect their sovereignty and
their interests and to prevent the destruc-
tion of local rights of self-government.
Actually it has become a party chamber
in which State rights are never men-
tioned and State causes never championed,
a servile echo of whatever party succeeds
in manipulating its majority.
In every function delegated to it it has
failed in its purpose, and its present
situation calls not merely for some slight
alteration in its form to enable it to work
without defying the country in the in-
terests of Mr. Chifley’s class-war, but for
an all-round reform which will restore
confidence in it and make it worth reten-
tion as part of the Parliament.
The mere provision of machinery to
prevent a deadlock after a double-disso-
lution caused by its obstruction is easy.
As Mr. W. C, Wentworth pointed out the
other day in an excellent maiden speech,
the removal of the deadlock, while re-
taining proportional-representation, does
not call for any alteration of the Con-
stitution. As the present numbers of the
Senate were fixed by a simple Act of
Parliament, the Representation Act of
1948, so the chance of stalemate can be
cured by a simple amendment of three or
four clauses of that Act making the
number of Senators to be elected from
each State an odd number instead of an
even number.
It has been held by some that this is
impossible because of thb need to divide
Senators into two equal classes for the
purpose of effecting balanced three-yearly
retirements. But the Constitution does
not envisage that equal numbers should
retire each three years. Section 13 merely
says that “the Senate shall divide Senators
chosen for each State into two classes, as
nearly equal in number as practicable.
So that it would clearly be possible to
retire more Senators at the end of one
three-years than at the end of another.
If it is argued, as it might be, that the
reduction of Senators at a double-dis-
solution to nine per State would infringe
Section 24, which says that the numbers
of the House of Representatives shall be
“as nearly as practicable twice the
number of the Senators,” it is a clinching
fact that the present composition of the
House is not practical, even though
numerically it otherwise satisfies the re-
quirements of the section. It is impos-
sible to argue for an equal number of
Senators from each State and for pro-
portional-representation at the same time.
While the alteration of the number of
members to prevent a hopelessly defeated
party from sabotaging the operations of
the House of Representatives is desirable
as an interim measure which may have
to be resorted to so that government may
not fall into complete chaos, it is to be
hoped that Mr. Menzies, who has the
high legal equipment for the task, will
carry his thinking about the Senate much
farther and consider whether the time
has not arrived to bring the Upper House
back into line with the spirit and inten-
tion of the Constitution.
As originally envisaged by the greatest
galaxy of statesmanship ever gathered
together in this country in a single draft-
ing committee —it included Parkes,
Deakin, C. C. Kingston, Griffith, Forrest
and Barton —the Senate was to be elected
in the same manner as the United States
Senate: by the various State legislatures.
The existing provisions for election of
Senators months ahead of taking their
seats were based upon the presumption
that this system would be adopted and
were designed to meet the fact that the
various State Parliaments would assemble
at different times of the year. The only
reason why the original scheme was
thrown overboard was that different States
owned different species of Upper Houses,
some of them elected on a property quali-
fication, some nominated for life —a con-
dition of affairs which seemed to some
of the founders of the new Federation
to be adverse to the principles of demo-
cratic election.
There seems, however, no reason why,
if it is to serve its purpose as a States
House, the Senate should ,not be elected
under the control of the States. The
present method makes it inevitable that
its election should take place on Federal
rather than State issues. It would not be
out of place if the Government were to
take the matter seriously in hand and
call a convention of the States to pro-
vide a workable method of reform, so
as to assure that in future the Senate
fulfils its destiny. The result of the dis-
cussions could be afterwards submitted
to a statutory referendum.
There seems to be no barrier to
Senators being elected at State elections
instead of Federal polls, and this would
render the Senate more capable of re-
flecting State opinion and conserving
State rights.
It is doubly appropriate that its fate
should be treated as a major issue at a
moment when new-State movements are
coming to life everywhere.
Eyes on Mr. Clarey.
Among the new members who have
addressed the new House of Representa-
tives there is none who could speak with
a greater sense of the influence of his
words, outside as. well as inside Parlia-
ment, than Mr. Clarey, late president of
the Australian Council of Trade Unions.
Hitherto what Mr, Clarey has said
about union grievances has depended very
much upon the industrial climate and the
pressure of one sectional group or an-
other within the A.C.T.U. That he
should have taken the first opportunity
in his new condition of freedom from
these influences to speak as he did last
week gives added weight to his words.
His experience covers not only his
own special background, but also an inti-
mate advisory association with the late
Prime Minister. He knows what Mr.
Chifley’s “Golden Age” anticipations were
built upon. He knows how vital to the
welfare of a now greatly-expanding Aus-
tralia is full production as well as full
employment. The Menzies Ministry had
hardly been formed before the new P.M.
and his Minister for Labor also entered
into confidential talks with the A.C.T.U.
executive.
Consequently Mr. Clarey’s words in
Parliament mean something. If he can
carry the Leader of the Opposition and
the majority of caucus with him, they
may be of enormous significance for a
new deal in Australian industry. Mr.
Clarey pleaded for “removal of the brick
wall between those guiding and those
doing the work in industry.” He said:
The worker is paid for what he does,
but the objects of those employing him,
their intentions to expand, their planning
problems, and other things associated with
administration, are entirely outside his
knowledge.
If you want workers to be co-partners
in industry there must be some machinery
for consultation between worker and
management, where the management’s prob-
lems may be discussed with the worker,
and a real indication given that the
employers do desire to co-operate with
workers in the control of industry and
development.
That is exactly what the Liberal-party
leaders have said they do want. Mr.
Clarey must be well aware of that. He
went on:
If politics are left out of the question
and there is a genuine desire on both sides
of the House to get better industrial rela-
tions in Australia, we can all help to make
a bigger, grander and better Australia than
we have today.
Mr. Menzies can reply that the door
is wide open and that one of his senior
Ministers has issued a post-election in-
vitation to discussions. His own pre-"
scription at the elections for tackling the
industrial problem was on these lines:
The highest production and living stan-
dards cannot be achieved without a new
and human spirit in the industrial world.
No industry can succeed without the co-
operation of capital, management and
labor. Each must be fairly rewarded.
Between the three there must be mutual
understanding and respect.. . .Unhappily,
too many employers wash their hands ot
their employees as human beings.... We
believe that these obsolete ideas must be
rooted out The industrial problem re-
quires immense human understanding and
a genuinely co-operative spirit.... Twice in
this century men have died by the millions
.... because while they have learned to
live with machines they have forgotten how
to live with one another.
A further question is whether politicians
and industrial executives have forgotten
how to make words mean something. The
country has for three years past been
listening to a Socialist Prime Minister
urging more production as the only salva-
tion against “economic disaster,” and in
the wrangling industrial scene that he sur-
veyed his words counted for nothing at
all—especially in that source of all in-
dustrial working energy, the coalfields.
Employers, in the main, must be judged
ready to respond. Only a few days before
Mr. Clarey spoke the president of the
Australian Council of Employers’ Federa-
tions, at the annual conference of the
A.C.E.F., called on the Federal Govern-
ment to convene conferences of repre-
sentatives of all parties in key industries
on “production and industrial relations.”
Among other things he said his body
wanted were:
A permanent committee to advise the
Government on development and main-
tenance of high production.
Committee on industrial relations to
include employer and trade-union represen-
tatives to examine (1) removal of obstacles
to peace and stability in industry; (2) how
workers, in return for continuity of employ-
ment and absence of unjustifiable stop-
pages, could be guaranteed an equitable
share of return from increased production;
(3) how the trade-union movement could
be assisted to rid itself of elements opposed
equally to trade-unionism and to attain-
ment of full production.
The new controlling power in in-
dustry today is exercised not by
owners (that is, investors), but by man-
agers. Shareholders in private companies
are as little consulted in the employment
of their investments as are the workers
in the employment of their labor. The
difference between managers under busi-
ness enterprise and those under “nation-
alised industries” —as the London “Times”
has been explaining from British experi-
ence —is that managers in Government
industries are even more aloof from the
workers.
The all-powerful manager and the all-
powerful chief executive of a trade-union
must both be placed on trial
in the age ahead of us. It is
becoming with the wreckers an axiom
in key industries —infallible lines of
approach for a general strike —that where
the union executive is not militant enough,
their authority with the rank-and-file
(mostly gullible) shall be usurped by shop-
stewards. These are ideal bearers of the
firebrand in the Communists’ war on our
industrial society.
As for Socialism as a provider of con-
tentment in industry—for the sort of
reforms that Mr. Clarey urges—let there
be heard this statement uttered at an
election meeting in Bristol during the final
critical week before the recent British
polls:
It is tommy-rot to talk about an increase
in wages by way of solving our problems.
The solution is by reducing the prices of
commodities and making the money we get
buy more.
That was said after five years of “the
great experiment” under the Attlee Gov-
ernment, not by gome hardshell Tory
thirsting for Cripps’s blood, but by
Arthur Deakin, general secretary of the
powerful Transport and General Workers’
Union. True, the exhortation was in
strict line with the Cripps gospel of the
moment; but what sort of a confession
is it of Socialist failure to bring to the
worker a real interest in the prosperity
and the profits of his industry?
There is only one solution to the prob-
lems of security of employment and full
production in this age of better education
of the masses. Mr, Menzies has ex-
pressed it in language impossible to mis-
construe. “We believe in these things ”
he told electors, “and will encourage them
to the very limit of our powers”:
Schemes of profit-sharing, of incentive-
payments, of factory amenities, of assist-
ance to employees in their private lives, of
joint consultation for the pooling of ideas,
the informing of employees in relation to
the employer’s problems, the conveying to
employers of the difficulties or grievances
of their employees
Among the causes of underproduction
is insufficient attention to the highest pos-
sible efficiency in management and organi-
sation ....
These also are mere words unless in
the happier state of industrial affairs so
visualised one of the criterions of efficient
organisation shall be a great deal more
sincerity and co-operation between
management and workers. The profes-
sional trouble-makers in the unions may
die hard, but they will have to be dealt
with, anyway, and it is best that they
should be dealt with by workers who have
found that co-operation with the manage-
ment side of industry really pays them.
Sugar and the Nation.
Queensland Cane Growers’ Association
began its annual conference at Mackay
yesterday, generally pleased with every-
thing except price. Queensland’s 1949
yield was just on 900,000 tons of sugar,
which, with the 40,000 tons from N.S.W.,
made an Australian total of 940,000 tons,
about 10,000 tons below the 1948 record.
Good rains in the coming autumn would
put the 1950 figure about the same.
As a result of an Empire Sugar Con-
ference last year, Australia has an export
quota of 600,000 tons of raw sugar in
the Empire preferential markets, and the
British Food Ministry, at present sole
buyer of Australian export sugar, says it
\yill take all Empire-produced sugar up
to 1952. “Economic News,” published in
Brisbane, holds that “to satisfy its require-
ments the Ministry must offer prices that
will induce the Queensland cane-farmer
to produce more sugar.” It mentions the
high export prices of other land products,
and suggests that before the “greater
labor and capital necessary to produce
more sugar” are found the product will
have to yield financial returns “compar-
able with those from other primary
activities.”
The 1948 home-consumption price was
£23 Is. a ton, that of export sugar £2B
25., overall average for all 1948 sugar in
Queensland £25 9s. lid., or something
over £23 million for the 909,000-odd tons
grown by about 22,450 farmers (1947
census). Comparative prices for 1949 are
£23 10s., £2B 10s. and £25 18s. After all
charges have been deducted, the 19->"
export price is expected to be about £3l,
not a very great advance on the 1948
price, in spite of the appreciated Aus-
tralian £ and the steady rises in costs ot
labor and materials.
The retail price to Australian con-
sumers rose by id. to sd. a pound as
November, making it only a penny a
pound dearer than in 1933. What other
essential commodity except bread has re-
mained as cheap? It must be remem-
bered, of course, that present cheapness
is largely a result of the high exp
price. Before the war the export pnc
was much lower than the home-con-
sumption price. Very few land product
could be sold in Australia at present
home-consumption prices if it were n
for the high prices obtained overseas
Conference the growers «
no doubt consider the forecast for
international sugar agreement, PP ,
be sought this year or next What the
Australian people have constantly
on guard against is attempts
mine the economy of theirsugar industry
by countries employing cheap
a low living standard. That it is an
tralian industry as much as Q
one shouldn’t need emphasising.
Nor should it be forgotten that Queen
land agreed to Federation on dJn
that the sugar industry was pro t
the recent Federal elections '
literally wiped out its Labor J P
tatives at Canberra, and it will e
new Government not to the
in the international trade; gam tQ
bearing of the Havana Charter
be ratified, on our sugar
need to be fully investigated..


PLAIN ENGLISH
Fuchs and Australia.
THE conviction of Dr. Klaus Fuchs,
J® of the world’s leading atomic sc.en-
S and a member of the small group of
British-employed experts who developed
nuclear fission in a practical sense, has
struck a tremendous blow at the repu-
Sion of the British Security Service.
Fuchs was a German, 38 years of age.
He came originally from Frankfort-on-
Rhine, a city notorious as a centre or
Communist plotting. He was an associ-
ate of Dr. Nunn May, sentenced as the
result of the Canadian spy trials to 10
years’ imprisonment.
It was almost unbelievable that any
constituted authority could have had the
slightest trust in him. Yet he was ap-
proved by Security, allowed to know
everything there was to know, and was
so unsupervised that he was able to pass
on what he learnt to the Russians. It
is almost certain that his communica-
tions enabled them to establish their
knowledge of atomic technique, so that
his treachery could be responsible for
the deaths of tens or hundreds of
thousands of the citizens of the country
which sheltered him. But his actions
particularly pointed the fact that no
Communist outside of Russia can be
accepted as being loyal to the country in
which he lives, and it should have needed
no Security Service to tell any knowledge-
able Government that.
The case has its special lessons at a
moment when the Federal Government
is about to produce legislation to deal
with Communists which is threatened with
the concerted opposition of the whole
“Labor” movement, by Mr.
Chifley. Mr. Chifley has contended that
Communism is merely a “political
philosophy.” Mr. Holloway, his fol-
lower, recently elevated to a Privy-
Councillorship on his recommendation,
says that it is based on the teachings of
Christ. And hundreds of union-leaders
will soon be shouting in chorus with
“Labor” politicians that it is a blow at
freedom to ban the Communist party —
this despite the fact that time and again
over 20 years some of them have actually
accused the Communists mot only of
playing the Russian game but of obtain-
ing their funds from Russia.
As far back as January, 1929, Mr.
Grayndler, a prominent official of the
A.W.U., told a conference at Tweed
Heads that “he believed the money at
present being spent on Communist
propaganda came from Shanghai, which
was the clearing-house of many foreign
countries,” and the charge has been re-
peated again and again, not without sup-
port from those running Communist
affairs in the unions.
Until “Labor’s” tolerance of Com-
munism and its belief that Communists
have a special licence to indulge in trea-
son are shattered, no security service is
much good either here or in Britain.
Profit and the Worker.
Communist opposition to incentive-pay-
ments for trade-unionists is because Corns
don’t want increased production. They
want economic anaemia for Western
countries and eventual revolution.
Union secretaries, too, talk of “exploita-
tion” and “speeding-up” in monotonous
accents. But no shearer, for instance,
would dream of accepting a pen unless
he was paid so much a hundred, no wool-
presser will have pressing on unless at
so much a bale. In the woolshed, as in
the sleeper-cutting camp, the canefield,
the vineyard or anywhere else where
piecework is the rule nobody wants to
regulate his pace to the slowest or
wilfully cut production to suit some union
boss, Communist or otherwise. The coal-
mine “darg” is in a different category,
being mainly political.
In the cities it is the same. There is
plenty of piecewqjrk in the lighter trades
—making of electrical gadgets, garments,
glassworks, agricultural-implement
factories and so forth and the employees
are well pleased with it. Where bonus
systems prevail, as they do in many in-
dustries, anyone trying to abolish them is
likely to hit trouble.
Workers are hungry for overtime. Men
applying for jobs ask first, “Is there any
overtime?” and if there isn’t they go
somewhere else.
All of which shows pretty clearly that
in this matter of profits workers hold the
same views as employers. It remained for
the wharfies to afford the final proof.
Nobody who has watched wharfies
wearily trying to drag out the time should
need telling how slow they can be, being
paid by the hour. Last week a steve-
doring contract for unloading and load-
ing an inter-State steamer was given to 51
Melbourne wharfies which, in effect, gave
them the profits from working the vessel.
They broke all records for the port.
This knocks endways the warning of
metal-trades union officials to the Federal
Government that “efforts to introduce in-
centive-payment systems in industry
would create dissension and disrupt in-
dustry, and it should encourage that
same Government to persist in its idea of
incentives as a means of increasing pro-
duction. With health and certain econo-
mic safeguards, there can be no rational
objections.
"Coincidence at Caulfield. 11
From Eric D. Butler, campaign-director.
League of Rights (Victoria):
As the only non-Socialist speaker to take part
m the Forum of the Air dealt with in your
issue of February 22, may I be permitted to
point out that your report hardly does me
justice.
Towards the end of your article, the general
tenor of which I agree with entirely, the follow-
ing appears: “Following Mr, Fitzpatrick’s en-
gaging display there was a mild theoretic
exposition of the rights and wrongs of free
speech' by a Mr. Eric Butler, and finally a
disquisition by Miss Flora Eldershaw. Her
plea was for freedom of speech in literature—
absolutely free speech.” This could easily give
the impression that I was one of a team
furthering the Communist-party “line.” So far
from this being the case, I strongly disagreed
with the other three speakers on practically
every point they raised.
It is, I believe, unfortunate that your report
does not mention that my “mild theoretic
exposition” was in reality a strong and un-
compromising statement in favor of the tradi-
tional British and Christian idea all freedom
of speech and action' should be within the
framework of a rule of law which protects the
rights and liberties of every individual. I said
that this automatically precluded the Com-
munists and other anti-British totalitarians from
poisoning the community with their alien
teachings. Mr. O’Connor, Mr. Fitzpatrick
and the largely-Communist audience were
most hostile following my address.
You may be interested to know that at the
meeting of speakers several days prior to the
Forum, Mr. Fitzpatrick, who has been con-
sistently attacking me publicly for years, sug-
gested that he follow me in order of speaking.
Believing that all personalities would be kept
out of the Forum, and that speakers would
keep strictly to the subject for discussion, 1
raised no objection. However, Mr. Fitzpatrick
not only used his speaking time, but also the
question period, to make a thinly-veiled attack
upon me and the Victorian League of Rights.
Including the period not broadcast, the
Forum developed into a strongly-worded con-
test between myself, trying to uphold our
British traditions, and the three before-mentioned
speakers and a Cemmunist-“stacked” audience.
My League is initiating action to try to have
the use of the A.B.C. by Communists and
fellow-travellers stopped.
Anti-strike Actions.
Three strikes in the three eastern States’
capitals were, as they showed signs of
oppressing the public, challenged by the
controlling authorities with actions at law.
In Melbourne, Communist-agent Brown,
A.R.U. boss, said he would not allow the
State Government to run emergency street
transport. Ihe Victorian Government re-
sponded with plans to run wider emer-
gency services if the railways should also
thrown idle, and Communist-agent
O Shea s tramways union was warned it
will be due for deregistration proceedings
this week.
In Brisbane, Judge Kirby of the Federal
Arbitration Court, at the request of the
Stevedoring Industry Board, made an order
suspending payment of attendance-money,
to operate if wharfies—who had thrown
all Brisbane waterfront idle —did not return
to work on Monday last.
lii Sydney the Meat Commissioner took
out a summons, with £5OO penalty attach-
ing, against the Meat Employees’ Union,
whose strike at Homebush abattoirs threat-
ened a virtual meat famine in Sydney.
Communist leaders have been itching
to start “rolling strikes” in the maritime
industries and strikes in aid of an im-
mediate basic-wage rise to force the hand
of the Arbitration Court. These stop-
pages in eastern Australia fall within one
or the other category.
A point of interest in the Sydney
abattoirs stoppage was the visit of Mr.
McGirr’s Minister for Labor to the scene
after‘the summons against the strikers
had been taken out. Mr. McGirr, of
course, is facing an election shortly, and
he was returned to office three years ago
on a sheaf of promises to end all in-
dustrial unrest. His Mr. Finnan went
down to the strikers to point out to
them the bitter prospect of industrial
unrest ending the McGirr Ministry.
But that ending is already written in
the stars.
McGirr Smells a Plot.
In the course of a discussion on the royal
commission set up to inquire into allega-
tions of graft brought against F. J. Cahill,
“Labor” member for Young, N. S. Wales
Premier McGirr said, in reply to a
question from one of his party:
I have heard that in Tasmania and
Queensland and in the Federal Parliament
long-range plans had been prepared by a
Liberal organisation (I won’t say whether it
is the Liberal party or not) to give effect
to what is known as “American methods”
in connection with their campaigning for
elections. This means they would resort to
any methods to discredit the Government.
Inquiries have taken place recently in
Queensland and took place some time ago
in Tasmania.
Since Mr. McGirr “has heard” that the
royal commissions into charges against
“Labor” Governments and Ministers in
recent years have been the result of plots
by “a Liberal organisation,” it may be
as well to refresh his mind on a few
points.
New Guinea Timber Inquiry: This
(Continued on next page.)
——
, <o
“SEE EVERYTHING, HEAR EVERYTHING, TELL EVERYTHING.”


1
m
|||||
ipi
I ■■
:
CRAVENA
—for your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable in
10's & 2#’s I
i
' '• Vf>
V
ffi745-B
CARRERAS LTD.—OVER ISO YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
business involved a jail sentence for a
man who had sat as a “Labor” member
in the Federal Parliament, had been
prominent in the party for 30 years, was
a close friend of a Minister, had access
to the Minister’s rooms and an office of
his own in the Minister’s suite although
he was on the payroll of another depart-
ment. The activities which justified his
retention on the payroll and his occu-
pancy of the room have never been satis-
factorily explained. It was this man,
Jock Garden, who made the charges of
graft against the Minister, Mr. Ward
(who was later exonerated), and Mr.
Ward has several times stated that he
himself demanded a royal commission
right at the outset of the affair. There
is no record of either Garden or Ward
ever having belonged to “a Liberal
organisation.”
In Tasmania, Mr. McGirr could have
had two cases in mind —those of T. de
Largie D’Alton and Premier Cosgrove.
Against the former it was alleged that
while Minister for Forests he had taken
bribes of timber. The royal commission
accepted his explanation that he had paid
for the timber out of money kept in his
office as a dog-racing bank, handing the
cash over in a Hobart street without
worrying about a receipt Mr. McGirr
may have the highest possible opinion
of D’Alton’s integrity, but he will sorely
admit that a Minister whose business
methods are so casual can hardly com-
plain if his actions are misconstrued—
even by “a Liberal organisation.”
Mr. Cosgrove’s troubles also involved
charges of graft; it was alleged that he
had accepted bribes from road hauliers
to influence legislation their way. Tie
royal-commissioner decided it was a case
for the courts, and the Premier stood his
trial on 14 charges of bribery and corrup-
tion. He was acquitted on a majority
verdict (10-2). If the charges were a
Liberal plot it failed. At an election a
few months later Mr. Cosgrove’s personal
vote was increased and his Government
retained its somewhat tenuous hold on
the Treasury benches.
The royal commission on Queensland’s
Golden Casket is recent history. There
the move was certainly instigated by a
Liberal member, and his evidence before
the commission was far from convincing,
though the Liberal- and Country-party
Opposition in Queensland have stated
their intention to hold a further inquiry
if the people put them in office at the
next election.
At the same time, the making of
charges by a Liberal member against a
“Labor” Minister or member and the de-
manding of a royal commission do no
constitute a “plot.” No Government
which trusts its Ministers and admin
trators should have an y th 'J§ M
fear from an open inquiry. « Mr J»
Girr considers that some of the rece
demands for inquiries have been basea
on too-fiimsy evidence he has litt e r#
to make such a complaint. H
charges of “American methods are,
his own showing, based on hearsay.
POINTS
Looking things over from the security
of the Opposition benches Churchill’s
Conservatives should really be pleased
they didn’t win. Had they done so with
the Liberals in the field it would have
only been by a small margin, and the
headaches which are now Attlee’s would
have been theirs. As it is they can sit
back, the moral winners, and work and
hope for a real majority when the return
bout comes.
Three years ago, when Tom Playford’s
was the only non-“ Labor” Government in
Australia, an election advertisement
appeared in the Adelaide Press displaying
portraits of Chifley and the five “Labor”
Premiers. Ben was depicted urging
Opposition-leader Richards to “complete
the chain.” Richards no doubt did his
best, but South Australian electors wanted
no “Labor” chains; they put Playford
back with an increased majority. One of
the last acts of the Chifley Government
was to appoint Richards administrator of
Nauru, but his successor, O’Halloran,
found Playford just as hard as ever to
toss last Saturday.
There are only 39 seats in the S.A.
Assembly, In the last Parliament the
Lib.-C.P. team held 23, “Labor” 12 and
there were four Independents, one of
whom, P. H. Quirke, resigned from the
“Labor” party during the last Parliament.
As a result of Saturday’s poll the repre-
sentation in the new Assembly will be
23, 12, 4. It seems as though South Aus-
tralia has got the Parliament it wants and
intends to stick to it.
There’s no connection between the
A.L.P. and the Communist party. That’s
been said by “Labor” spokesmen
over and over again. That’s what makes
the following two items so funny. Head-
line from current issue of the A.L.P.
“Standard”; “Menzies Faces United
Union Front.” Communist “Tribune”
poster, current issue: “Unity Can Defeat
Menzies’s Fascist Ban.”
In opposing the Federal Government’s
projected plan for compulsory secret
ballots for the election of trade-union
officials “Labor” leaders protest that most
unions already use the secret ballot, and
that there should be no need for Govern-
ment interference. Stories leaking out
about the last election of Legislative
Councillors in N. S. Wales suggest that
“Labor” has its own definition for the
word “secret.” The dogs are barking that
the reason Heferen and three other
M.L.As. were refused endorsement for
the coming State election is that they did
not vote as instructed on that occasion.
The ballot was supposed to be secret.
N. S. Wales caucus is running round in
circles getting nowhere fast in an attempt
to get the A.L.P. executive to put the four
members back on the list before someone
persuades them to run on their own
account. All four are strongly supported
in their own districts, and Seiffert
(Monaro), at any rate, would stand a fair
chance as an Independent.
The British Security Service is taking
an awful drubbing from the flapper Press
fop passing a Dr. Fuchs, Communist, as
a member of the team which developed
the atom-bomb. In 1943, when the traitor
was endorsed, the Security Service would
have taken an even more dreadful drub-
bing from the flapper Press if it had dared
to protest against the employment of
Communists in high places. Those were
the days when some Sydney papers were
demanding that Britain import a few
Russian generals to teach her soldiers how
to fight.
French President M. Auriol is this week
paying the first official visit by a head of
the French State to London for 11 years.
It is to be hoped that it is not so ominous
for the future as was the last one, on the
eve of World War 11. France is in a
parlous state, and the visit comes at a
significant moment when the French
Communist party is reported to be organ-
ising commandos to prevent the unload-,
ing of the first shiploads of arms con-
signed from the United States for the
benefit of the European Western Defence
Plan.
0
Cremean, one of those impatient new
“Labor” members in Canberra, asked the
Prime Minister what steps had been taken
to “put value back in the pound” since
the election. Menzies could have replied
that value had been steadily going out of
the pound for the eight years Cremean’s
crowd was in office, but he merely said
that a single legislative act couldn’t do it
unless there was greater production. Too
true ; but Cremean didn’t rush forth and
urge striking wharfies, trammies apd
slaughtermen to go back to work.
There must be a lot of embarrassment
in “Labor” circles just now, what with
surviving Federal “Labor” members
bursting to get into the State election
fights and State “Labor” people not
anxious to have defeated men pleading
their cause. Liberal- and Country-party
leaders in the States, on the other hand,
are falling over themselves to get the help
of Federal leaders into their campaigns.
No decision is likely to be taken, if the
Government has its way, before the Lib.-
C.P. State Council meeting on March 31,
but consensus of Victorian opinion is that
an election may take place early in May.
Hollway has refused to confirm this, but
it would probably be the best time from
his point of view, what with winter indus-
trial unrest developing and the Cains
having to carry the sins of McGirr and
Hanlon, which will then be in the lime-
light.
Hanlon said at Toowoomba that there
must be “no ducking around comers”
over “Labor’s” socialisation objective.
Having said that, he straightway ran up
a back-alley by proposing an amendment
—which was adopted—emphasising" that
socialisation of industry was “a long-
term objective.”
April 29 is tipped as Hanlon’s choice
for polling-day. Does McGirr concur?
Brisbane is to have, an electric railway
system —some day. An expert report was
before Cabinet in November, 1947, and it
was then said that a start would be made
in 1948. In September, 1948, Transport
Minister Duggan said final consideration
would be completed within four months.
The latest —with a general election due
any minute—is that tenders will be called
“in about six months.” Completion?
Well, the first train is promised within
five years ; the lot in nine.’ That’s about
three elections off.
According to the president of Queens-
land Dairymen’s Organisation, 3000 dairy-
farmers in that State have given the game
away since 1945-46. To open Golden
Casket ticket-agencies?
“Body-snatching” between unions, a
frequent cause of strikes and industrial
bitterness, has spread to the farmers. Two
rival organisations, the National Farmers’
Union and the Australian Primary Pro-
ducers’ Union, are busily canvassing for
members, and the things each says about
the other have at times nearly wilted the
wheat. It would make a good field for
the Corns, who’ve been after farmer-
membership for a long time.
“Becks” on the decline and fall of the
British Liberal party:
Liberal Governments ruled the United
Kingdom for 45 out of the last 100 years, hut
for only 13 years—l9o6-18—in the last 50. The
decline of the party has corresponded with the
rise of Labor. In 1906, when Campbell-
Bannerman led it to victory with a record
majority, it mustered 387 of its own members
and had the support also of 84 Nationalists and
41 Labor men; the Conservative Opposition
held only 158 seats. In 1910 the Liberal
majority was reduced to 124, and at a second
general election later in the year, brought on
by a constitutional crisis with the Lords, it re-
mained substantially unchanged. During the
First World War the party split into two groups,
one joining a Coalition Government and the
other going into Opposition.
When the coalition broke up in 1922 the
two factions were at loggerheads for a while,
but united again for the 1923 election and won
150 seats. They supported a minority Labor
Government and by so doing hastened their
end as a major party; in the election the fol-
lowing year they won only 40 seats, being thus
relegated to the position Labor held in 1906.
This figure was increased to 59 in 1929, when
the party again supported a minority Labor
Government, but the formation of the National
Government in 1931 saw them split into three
sections —Liberal Nationalists, who supported the
Government; Liberals and Independent Liberals,
who went into Opposition. After the 1935
election the strength of these groups was 33,
17 and four respectively.
The second war saw a further decline in
Liberal strength. By the time the Attlee Gov-
ernment took office in 1945 the Liberal Nation-
alists had become to all intents and purposes
identified with the Conservatives —there were
13 of them in the last Parliament —and the
rump of the old party could muster only 12
members, most of them from Wales. By the
time Parliament was dissolved the number was
down to 10, and last month’s election reduced
the 10 to nine, although the party contested
475 seats and its leader, Clement Davies, in an
election-eve message, claimed that it was
“stronger than at any time in the last 20 years”
and expressed his belief that “the majority of
British people would like to see a Liberal Gov-
ernment in office again.”
Lord Simon, leader of the National Liberals,
was nearer to the truth when he said that the
Davies Liberals were embedded in the past and
refused to recognise two immense changes in
British politics: (1) that the social reforms for
which the old Liberal party had striven were
now the possession of the whole nation, and
(2) the rise of Socialism, an enemy of Liber-
alism in all its aspects.
It is clear that there is no room for a third
party in British politics. If the Liberal party
refuses to die now while it still merits decent
burial its only possible end seems to be a
suicide’s grave at the crossroads.
One delegate at the Federal unions’
conference on the basic wage declared
that on 1907 standards the wage ought
to be at least £8 Bs. a week instead of
£6 145., because gold was £4 an ounce
in 1907, when the basic wage was £2 25.,
and today it was £l6 an ounce. But
surely gold is not an item on the house-
wife’s weekly necessary-commodities
list!
The controversy as to whether or not
Attlee’s War Minister Strachey is still a
Communist raises an interesting problem
for the analytical chemist: How much of
the Red dye is bleached out of a Com-
munist when he becomes a Socialist?
Political students may find another signi-
ficance in the appointment to the War
Office of a man who made a mess of
things in his previous job. It is perhaps
symbolic of the Socialists’ contempt for
the post. Shinwell got it when he made a
mess of Fuel.
Before wheat was “stabilised-socialised”
in Australia, the cry was that private
merchants “exploited” growers and con-
sumers by juggling buying and selling
prices. It was further said that these
“exploiters” would rather see people
starve than lower the price of wheat. It
is now calmly announced that Australia
opposes letting Germany and Japan into
the International Wheat Agreement be-
cause if they were let in they could get
Australian wheat for 16s. 4d. a bushel,
whereas if kept out they have to pay
20s. 4d. a bushel. Exploitation is the
same thing whoever does it.
Nominees for the National Peace prize
include Dr. Evatt, presumably for hk
work in building up the Indonesian cause
enabling it to make war on the Dutch •
the Indian cause in S. Africa, contribut’
mg to friction among the Dominions •
and a few other similar efforts. But he can
scarcely win from Pandit, Nehru, who in
spite of a hurried denial after he became
a competitor, has been uttering lower-
ing threats against Pakistan for the oast
three months. P


Hxtbt
FIRST in 1888..
FIRST TO-DAY!
NO OTHER BATTERY
CAN MATCH EXIDE'S
61 YEARS' EXPERIENCE
EXIOE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD„ 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
uws
XA 50.28
PERSONAL ITEMS
What with radar and aircraft-carriers, a
naval man need be on the beach only a
month or so when he finds his vocabulary
of terms out of date. Latest nomenclature
is A B C defence —atomic, biological and
chemical. One of four R.A.N. officers so
far instructed in this unpleasant science,
Keith Hurst is one of the biggest men in
the Navy. A commissioned gunner, at the
time of his course in England he was
gunner of carrier Sydney, which ship he
stood-by from 1947 till commissioning,
her nests of Bofors his particular head-
ache. Hailing from the West, Hurst
began the war in destroyer Water hen
(sunk in the Mediterranean), shifted to
cruiser Sydney, then boarded the Aus-
tralia in time to see her haul out a forced-
down Sunderland’s crew from a North
Atlantic ridged 50ft. high and down to
40 degrees F. He was promised some
excitement when Australia sailed with the
Home Fleet to Trondjheim after the
Tirpitz; but the German heard of what
was waiting and scuttled back. The
promise was realised at Dakar, with a
vengeance, when Australia blew a Vichy
destroyer out of action, cracked at shore
batteries, was cracked at in return and
sailed back to Liverpool to be kept com-
pany in dry-dock by an unexploded land-
mine. After three lively years in the
cruiser he shifted to destroyer Nepal for
the Burma landings, and is now gunnery
officer of Reserve Fleet, in Sydney.
“Uramao”: Visiting Maoriland, Dr.
William Makwell, Shaw’s publisher and
one-time president of the British Federa-
tion of Master Printers, Retired last year
after 58 years’ printing in Edinburgh, the
doctor (LL.D.), rates Shaw as one of the
finest men he’s met —“a good man, kind
and deferring. He is everything you think
h® is not and he is nothing you think he
is.” The views of author and publisher
don’t exactly coincide—Maxwell con-
siders Shaw’s greatest work is “Back to
Methuselah,” while the playwright be-
lieves Heartbreak House,” recently
played in Sydney, the best thing he has
given the public.
111-health has forced the retirement of
the Falstaflian presence of Louis Mc-
Cubbin from Adelaide’s National Gallery,
where since 1936 what was hung and
where was his pigeon. Artist himself,
son of an artist (who in his day was ona
of Victoria’s most distinguished painters),
before heading for Adelaide Louis had
been president of the Victorian Artists’
ociety, and managed Melbourne’s cen-
r?oL fio u ral fSte - Born in Melbourne
m IS9O, he learnt his craft at the Mel-
bourae CaUery Sch ° ol , took home the
Australian Natives’ Association Land-
f ap p PriZe m 1914 > and then took off
wf r i nCe Wlth the 10th Field Ambu-
SSi • m J erBln S official war artist, he was
commf Bed 1° take on a Government
commssron to paint battle scenes and
murals for the Australian War Museum •
frep I f n ' ye u ar J ob wbose completion left him •
erL n °/ th t 0 the Reef to a
AssodJ? r the Australian National Travel
halkn , Re P res cnted in several Aus-
tranan galleries (as late as last year by
own 3T ?T rownhill Creek ” in his
own gaheiy) he is still, as a Bulletin
of a grand profession,
bmT? her T me Watt comes to Mel-
the r J r ° m L ° ndon for toe opening of
founS e *% 0£ N-ming. One of the
Britain T the slste r-institution in
Pr nr. ’ u was matron-in-chief of the
M S AA R . Nu ™g Servfce
sneH th ’ 1 S . he retired.” A restless
uniform tv 6 !- her pulled her back in to
Health nc bIS - tin ? e to tb e Ministry of
nffi mCipal c matron ’ and later chief
wars Se [ vice in b °to world
ars brought her her DB E and thp
donaTße^T 11831 ? Medal of In terna-
nSTi C [ OSS - Recentl y a visitor to
hails from^GHsgow^ and Irak ’ she
A colonial doing nicely in the Old
Dart’s architectural world, Brian O’Rorke,
grandson of Sir Maurice O’Rorke, an
old-time Speaker in Maoriland’s House of
Representatives. Before the last war his
decorations gladdened the eye in
Orient Line steamers and Imperial
Airways airliners. In 1938 he super-
vised the overhauling of the Royal train
for the London, Midland and Scottish,
as well as the Coronation Scot for the
New York World Fair. The train was
to tour the U.S., but Hitler altered that
timetable. Recently O’Rorke landed the
job of designing the buildings connected
with the transfer of Greenwich Observa-
tory to the clearer air of Hurstmonceaux
Castle, in Kent. Son of Denis, well-
known M.L. sportsman, Brian owns'
Christchurch as his birthplace.
•
Cosmopolitan to his striped trouser-
legs, Keith Officer goes to Paris Aus-
tralian Ambassador, in one of the new
Government’s first overseas appointments.
Scion of a deep-rooted pastoral family,
and born in Toorak, he was no sooner
called to the Bar and settled as associate
to Justice Higgins of the High Court than
he was called to Europe to take part in
the long-drawn-out trial, World v. Wilhelm,
which he and others won with record
costs. In that brief he rose to D.A.A.G,
of the Australian Army Corps and won
M.C. and four “mentions.” It gave him,
as well, a wanderlust which landed him
in North Nigeria as political officer, after-
wards private secretary to the Nigerian
Governor. Coming home to the External
Affairs Department, he left again in 1936
to take the place of R. G. Casey, his Mel-
bourne Grammar classmate, as Aus-
tralian liaison officer in the British
Foreign Office. Since then he has had a
whole run of diplomatic posts, in capitals
as far apart as Washington and Tokyo,
Moscow and Chungking, and, recently,
Amsterdam.
- Back in 1740 an Irish soldier of fortune
named Hennessy was wounded at Cognac,
a small village 60 miles north of
Bordeaux. Claiming the local elixir put
him on his feet, he sent some back home
to Ireland—and began an export trade
now world-wide. Herewith, by Prior,
Frederick Hennessy, the descendant re-
sponsible for the brandy firm’s overseas
interests. Cousin of Maurice, the firm's
present head (whose father was the only
THREE STARS.
Frenchman to win the Grand National),
Hennessy is touring Australia showing his
young nephew, Comte Alain de
Pracomtal, the brandy ropes. Hennessy,
Grenadier Guards major, could pass as
a Paris native ; the comte, as a Bondi life-
saver. The Germans, when they entered
Cognac, built a runway from which
long-range bombers took off for Atlantic
convoys. On the constructive side they
treated the distilleries tenderly, and
halted export, so that at the cease-fire
Cognac was full to its vat-rims of export-
able surplus. With the Ist Battalion of
the Guard s Armored Division, Hennessy
was at Dunkirk, got out, went back, and
ended the war with his tanks ringing the
U-boat basin at Cuxhaven somewhat
bewilderedly accepting the surrender of
half a dozen U-boats.
The passing of Harry Lauder re-
minded Frank Tait, presented herewith,
that he is one of the few who can good-
naturedly claim to have bested the canny
Scot in a business deal. Having, in 1912,
cleaned up a packet with Clara Butt, their
THEATRE STARS.
first big venture, the Tait brothers
reckoned Harry another good bet and
sent off Frank, then 19, to London to
sound out the man who already had half
the world in alternate laughter and tears.
at the offer of £5OO a week plus
a substantial percentage of takings, Harry
demanded £lOOO a week clear —and was
somewhat amazed when young Tait
immediately accepted. Frank reckons it
was one of the show’s best turns to see
Harry peering through the curtains each
night, noting the sardined house at a
guinea a seat, working out his loss
through rejecting the original offer and
pulling back to remind his promoters that,
despite his pleasure at seeing so many
folk present, he was still of the opinion
that young Tait had “ta’en him doom”
Caught up with his 80th milestone, and
still vigorous enough to chase a dozen
more, M. T. Padbury, who landed in
Westralia in the ’nineties looking for a
quiet spot to retire. A 22,000-acre pro-
perty at Koojan, out of Moora, altered
his ideas, and added considerably to the
standard of agriculture in the State. The
Fairbridge Farm School movement, as
well, owes much to his interest —his
generosity sent Kingsley Fairbridge to
London to state the case for the scheme’s
launching. It has now spread through
Australia and crossed to Canada.
Laid down his palette in Melbourne,
Chefik Bey Muftyzade, sop of the Turkish
Ambassador in London after World War
I and charge d’affaires in his father’s
absence. Leaving the Turkish diplomatic
service when that country was republic-
ised, he landed in Melbourne, where his
impeccable diplomatic figure, his monocle
and his manners —an artist, he kissed the
hands of feminine patrons at his fashion-
able art-shows at the Hotel Australia-
made an immense impression and landed
him commissions in large numbers. His
portraits of eminent Melburnians had an
old-world, early-Victorian flavor which
accorded with his diplomatic status. His
son, Reshid Bey, is a flower- and portrait-
painter.
Battle-stations are being taken up for
Westralia’s State election this month.
Minister for Lands, L. Thorn, opposed
for the Toodyay seat for the second time
since he won it in 1930, has in the oppo-
site corndr Laborite A. McNess, son of
the late Charles McNess, noted for
his substantial donations to education,
charity and general social welfare. Main
interest centres in the Nedlands seat, held
for the Liberals since 1930 by Sir Norbert
Keenan. The retiring member, besides
being the most cultured speaker in the
Legislative Assembly, is a Gent One by
profession who has remained a gentle-
man all the time, "Without the aid of
legislation. Now over 80, however, he
failed to gain the L.C.L. party endorse-
ment but is still having a shot at re-
election.
One of the really big panjandrums of
oil was present when the first drum of
lubricant dripped from the taps at the
S eV^7 Altona reflner y> near Melbourne—
-1 - W. Parker, chairman of the board of
standard-Vacuum Oil, New York. He
gave those assembled some statistics
which ought to interest N.S.W. coal-
miners. As a source of world energy
coal is declining, and if it declines much
more it may play second-fiddle to
petroleum, which now supplies 30 p.c. of
the world’s power as against 11 p.c. in
1919; coal has declined from 84 p.c,
to 59 p.c. in the same time. Parker has
! lve d in oil most of his life, starting young
in China and working up to he<fd serang
of the immense organisation which con-
trols a huge proportion of the world’s
oil. International education is his hobby,
m which field he is chairman of the
China Medical Board and vice-president
of the China Society of America.
Passed through Sydney on their way
home across-Tasman, Jerry and Norman
Nairn, the brothers whose extraordinary
adventure in transport on the 527-mile
run from Damascus to Baghdad was
found worthy of detailed mention in both
Malcolm Ellis’s Express to Hindustan and
H. V. Morton’s recen t Through Lands of
the Bible. Remaining in those parts after
World War I, the two adventurers in 1923
began their service with a brace of Buicks
and Dodges, cutting down the two-
months’ camel trip to four days. In 1927
a new type of car, to their own design
based on all the dusty, bumpy experience
of four years, was built in America and
shipped out. Now, in huge coaches,
weighing 12 tons, extravagantly padded
and sprung so that potholes are taken
bumplessly at 30 m.p'.h., air-conditioned
and devouring a gallon of juice every five
miles, the long trip, on a road made solely
by the wheels of their own coaches, takes
24 hours. Their heaviest tax was a safe-
conduct levy, paid to Bedouin tribes who
for centuries have considered desert
travellers their rightful prey. Now a sun-
wizened 53. and 56 respectively, with
Middle East business stagnant, Jerry and
Norman have sold out to their Lebanese-
Synan staff for a dust-free breath of old
Maoriland.
Into the Silence:
In Concord Repatriation Hospital, Sydney,
at 56, H. A. Poiner, known to pretty well
every Digger who ever benefited from Repatria-
tion, of which he was Asst. Deputy Com-
missioner. Practically the whole of his life
after catching a severe wound in France in
World War I was given to Digger-help.
At 60, in the same hospital, almost the same
hour, Captain David Binnie, from War I
wounds. Old Queensland Diggers will remem-
ber the March of the Warwick Thousand—■
Binnie organised it, a recruiting drive which
netted men from practically all over the Downs
for the Ist A.I.F. Commanding D Company
of the 42nd Battalion in France, he was badly
wounded, and returned home to tinmining
and flourmilling, in which latter industry he
represented the West Wyalong (N.S.W.) mill
in Sydney for some years.
At 59, in Sydney, Frederick Thomas Merrett,
front-rank engineer—nine years assistant chief
of Dunlop Rubber, from 1923 to the end turner
of the vast wheels of Australian Iron and
Steel. In War II the man to whom the
Director-General of Munitions looked for
technical advice, he was, as well, responsible
for construction of the countless small craft
which served, fed or carried our troops up
north.
Near St. Merryn, the R.N. air-station in
Cornwall, Lieutenant Noel Ferris, R.A.N., of
Sydney, one of the first casualties of our new
air-arm. He parachuted from an out-of-control
Firefly over the Padstow estuary, but was dead
when the air-sea rescue boat reached him.
Previously flying-officer in the R.A.A.F., he
joined the Navy in 1948, and got his watch-
keeping certificate in destroyer Arunta before
shifting to England for further training.
• At 72, in Perth, Sydney Howard-Bath,
prominent barrister, past-president of Bunbury
Race Club, W.A. Law Society, W.A. Law
Students’ Association and of the Freemasons’
Club, Perth. Born in London in 1878, he was
admitted to the English Bar before he came to
Westralia in 1914, practising in Bunbury before
shipping to Perth. Interested in fishing, art,
music and the drama, before legalising he
played the trombone in the old London Hay-
market Theatre orchestra.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WOTH WIMBLES INKS'
“Sackville St.”: If there is in common
usage a slang expression less effective
than “Tat-ta” I can’t think of it. There
is no finality to the utterance ; the user
seems to be compelled to keep repeating
it. From earliest childhood the repeti-
tions are thrust upon us: “Wave ‘tat-ta’ to
the lady. Tat-ta, tat-ta ...” And so it
goes on until one or other is out of ear-
shot or dead of exhaustion. When a long-
distance train is pulling out the same thing
goes on: “Tat-ta, tat-ta,” and so on. But
to loathe the expression really it is neces-
sary to be a neighbor when a party is
breaking up at about two in the morning.
On the front doorstep the collective tat-
tas begin. Everybody seems to think it is
his duty to repeat the word at least twice.
At the gate there is a general repetition,
but this time it becomes an individual
affair: “Tat-ta, Shirk Tat-ta, George.
Tat-ta, Mavis ...” A pleasant quarter
of an hour is passed in this fashion. After
that the really serious business of saying
tat-ta goes on. “Oh, well, we must go,
Tat-ta.” Chorus of tat-tas. Then some-
body remembers what she’d meant to say
“Make it snappy; she can't stay out of the water too long.”
before. She says it—then the tat-tas
break out again. Just as the suffering
neighbors are biting lumps out of the
blanket some brave soul speaks up:
“Hooray, everyone.” Within a minute the
street is deserted.
* * * ♦
“Clooter”: A diabolical forecast in
Huxley’s Brave New World, which so
offended some civil servant or other that
]he decided Australians oughtn’t to be
allowed to read it, was in his tale of how
the children were indoctrinated through
their pillows with worship of, and belief
in, the great dictator. Ford. While the
children slept a microphone tuned to
their pulse-beats repeated over and over
the indoctrinating phrase. Now the usual
American has invented a “dormophone”
for the use of “students, actors and sales-
men,” which is a pillow-microphone and
a record which plays every 15 minutes,
“whispering” the selected lesson into the
sleeper’s ear. “Washington Post” claims
that it isn’t “hokum,” and that “psycholo-
gists Say it is possible to learn through
the subconscious mind while asleep.”
That may be true; even if it is, I can’t
help wondering where all this speeding-
up of teaching is leading us. Visual
education is supposed to be so good that
one American university is considering
whether “comic strips” oughtn’t to be
utilised in the curriculum. Maybe I’m
getting old, but I’ve a persistent notion
that learning can’t be packed into the
human brain in the same way as a
factory bungs pork-an’-beans into a can.
« * * * *
“Col M.”: In the time I have known
my milkman he has never failed to de-
liver the goods, even though it has some-
times meant a gentle tap on the back-
door with a plea for the forgotten billy
or an occasional “Pussy, get your eye off
that milk,” tactfully pitched just loud
enough to wake someone in time to col-
lect the milk before the cat does. When
all is well he travels like a ghost with
no clanging of milk-cans or roars of
“Giddap!,” but, like all of us, he is not
without fault. Recently our nipper began
waking with the dawn and greeting it
with her idea of song. When inspected
she invariably waved at us an empty cup
or glass which had certainly not been
there the night before, and which con-
tained unmistakable traces of milk. Last
week I set abroad early and saw the
mystery dissolve. The milkman reached
in through the kitchen window for a
glass from the cupboard, tapped on the
little girl’s window, handed her in a glass
of milk, and beamed while she drank it.
I retired discreetly, for he is one of the
old-school milkos, courteous and depend-
able, and, from what I have heard of
others of his calling, worth his weight
in gold.
* * * *
“Communications”: Just at daybreak
on a fine April morning midway through
the war we dropped anchor off Vivigani,
on the south coast of Goodenough
Island. The shore exhibited no sign of
life, but repeated blasts of the whistle at
last brought forth a launch which hove-to
some 200 yards off and hailed, in purest
Brooklyn: “What’s the name of yer
ship?” “Tun Song,” replied the skipper
courteously. A pause of some 10 minutes’
duration, then, “What’s the name of yer
ship?” The skipper’s face reflected the
delicate pink of the sunrise as he repeated
“Tun Song.” A conference appeared to
take place aboard the launch, which then
made off in the direction of the shore.
After the passing of half an hour and a
few more blasts on the whistle, the launch
reappeared and the routine began again,
while, as the sunrise progressed, the reflec-
tion on the Old Man’s face passed from
pink through old rose to deep purple.
Finally flesh-and-blood could stand no
more. Came the inevitable : “What’s the
name of yer ship?” From the bridge
issued a bellow which must have started
“Another cup of tea , please—and don't put sugar in it this time."
an earthquake alert in Rabaul: “Chu
Chin Chow, you !” As the
launch sped off for unloading facilities
our sar’-major-passenger bared his head
in silent admiration.
* * * *
“Metax”: Gormanston (Tas.) muni-
cipal council is worried. It has received
a petrol-tax grant of £6OO ; the money
must be spent on roads. But Gormanston
is on the Speck’s wild west coast and the
council has no roads on which to use
the money.
* * * *
“Hamer” W. E. Fitz Henry’s article in
the 70th Anniversary Bulletin did not
mention John Dailey and the unusual
manner of his joining the staff. Dailey’s
business was the law, but he preferred
journalism. His contributions came in
regularly, and, having something red-hot
in his mind to write about, he one day
asked for a table at which to work. It
was supplied, and he continued to
use it. He was accepted as a regular
member of the staff, drawing an ample
recompense at freelance rates; he had
been carrying on for months like that
when his failure to coyer a matter re-
garded as in his province revealed that
he was not, actually, on the staff. He was
proriiptly placed on a salary—a remark-
able example of a man who had written
himself into a job. Dailey was drowned
while rock-fishing at Avalon in 1935.
* * * #
“P.P.”: I recently read an article
the writer of which shed some quite un-
necessary tears of pity for the people of
a previous generation, who “must have
suffered untold hardships” in the
absence of such things as electric-fans,
refrigerators and all the other gadgets.
Actually there was any amount of light
before it had to be turned on with a
switch. The gracious coolth of houses I
knew when I was a kid and their cosiness
when winter came were superior to those
of even the most elaborately-fitted modern
homes. Lacking electric servitors, the
people of that day took the trouble to
understand the air-cooling rules of
nature, and with the aid of broad
verandas and other devices got beauti-
fully air-conditioned homes. The old-
time canvas-filters gave us ice-cold water
by something the same process that pro-
duces ice and ice-cream—evaporation on
the outside by the external heat of the
dampness that seeped through the can-
vas ; and the butter and other foods kept
in the porous clay coolers were as firm
and cool as any that comes out of an
ice-chest without the hardness.
Modernity has given many wonders ; but
it has also made us forget a lot; and
when something goes wrong with the
gadgets—the cut-off of power maybe—
it is the moderns who suffer “untold hard-
ships.”
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: Controversy surrounding
“The Old Gum Tree” under which
Adelaide’s City Fathers annually cele-
brate the founding of the State has
flared up again, but this time an early
sketch which has come into the picture
should settle it for ever. The tradition
that this was the tree under which the
Proclamation was read must have started
early, because my great-grandmother,
Mary Thomas, was already making a
nuisance of herself 25 years after the
founding by asserting that the wrone t r
was being honored and that the actui
plant was a tall, straight gum which S
since been chopped down. The ske* h
which has come to light was made i
January or February, 1837, by mv eran?
father, John Michael Skipper, S.A.’s fi r t
artist. It shows a large marquee and St
hut under a group of gums, with a sailor
in a broad-brimmed straw hat and bell
bottomed trousers leading a defected 1 '
looking horse in the foreground. Some
slight distance to the left is the famous
bent tree. On the back of the picture
is a note by Robert Gouger, first
Colonial Secretary, stating that “the
Government was proclaimed at this tent
on December 28, 1836; the trees are
eucalyptus: , that resembling the banyan-
tree of India was blown nearly down
when young by the strong winds which
during winter blow upon the eastern
coast of the Gulf. There are many trees
wearing this appearance.” S.A. need not
he unduly worried about its legend; the
bent tree, even though it would be a most
unsuitable choice for gentlemen in top-
hats to read proclamations under on a hot
day, is a picturesque object, and is near
enough to the actual site to justify the
dignity bestowed upon it.
♦ * * %
“J.P.C.”: Boiling the billy became a
problem for Victorian loco, enginemen
when the conversion from coal to oil-fuel
took place. With coal fires it was simple
to drop the firebox-door and sit the billy
on the white-hot coals, but with oil-
burners the terrific heat and the spray of
hot unburnt oil which greeted the crew
when the firebox-door was opened
seemed likely to put an end to the driver s
privilege of having a billy of tea always
on tap. Then a fireman turned up with a
device that solved the problem —a coil ot
copper-piping fitted into a billy-can. One
end of the coil had a |in. coupling which
screwed on to a threaded steam outlet-
valve. With the steam-pressure on, the
billy boiled in 45 seconds ; record for a
coal fire was 75 seconds. The Railways
Department is considering the issue of the
device as part of the loco, equipment.
# # *
“Taswegian”: The Sydney tram-con-
ductor who refused the shilling from
“Jobber’s” wife (B. l/2/’5O) reminded
me of the kindness of some of Hobart
conductors last year. The old weedy-
concession tickets had been done away
with, and in their place tickets had he
issued allowing a dozen rides at a_ sughi y*
reduced rate. The conductors didn t h
these, as they had to be clipped ev y
ride. Mine was about half-used wne
conductor handed it back to me wlt
clipping it. When the same thing
pened next day I made inquiries,
turned out that if the conductor na
punch that made the same-shaped no
the last one made on the ticket te »
you a free ride, apparently to nar rV
department for giving him unnec
work. Needless to say, we dont
those tickets now, either. #
“H.G.L.”: I "read my M Bulletin
in 1898, and have missed few
since, but I can’t understand the o t
cation of Hop. It has been sta g
Hop made The Bulletin. 1 m n
in thinking that The Bulletin
Hop. Hop certainly made Georg ntlo cle,
but George, with his figure and . tur j S t
was an open invitation to any ca rS
to come and make him. 9 ver ,-tnon by
I can’t recall one outstanding ca JO
Hop. I reckon Lindsay has as
winners to his one —in merit a _ rtoor i
the sledgehammer punch a
should have. In addition—' an seo t
go into mathematics h ere_ r? l i n(;e Hop
fellow, Ted Scorfield, would
any day of the week.
SAME OLD THING.
“A ‘monatony committee’ set up by the British
Ministry of National Insurance could find no evidence
of box-edom among girl clerks engaged on ‘dead-end
repetitive jobs.’ ”
All the girls of London Town
With cheeks as red as roses
Have had the union bosses down
Inspecting their psychoses.
“Opening envelopes all day long,”
Officials said, “is boredom.”
“No, if you please, kind sirs, you’re wrong,”
The London girls assured ’em.
Repeater-jobs can never bore,
According to these Misses,
For what could be more pleasing or
Repetitive than kisses?
Which makes it all so very strange
When cheerful girls get married
That they should suffer such a change
And grow so grim and harried.
Then, making beds and washing-up
And feeding family faces,
They taste of boredom’s bitter cup
With querulous grimaces:
“The same thing over and over again—
Look at the-fun we’re missing!”
And husbands have been heard complain
They even tire of kissing!
So one last stanza let us sing
To pay the poet’s stiff rent:
They always like the same old thing
So long as it is diff’rent.
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


“Jasby”: I find it hard to understand
the current habit of lauding as persons
of achievement youngsters who have
spent their holidays hitchhiking. It is
commonplace nowadays to read this sort
of thing: “Two Adelaide girls got back
yesterday from a hitchhiking trip to Mel-
bourne. They said they had walked only
15 miles on the whole trip,” or “Three
university students hitchhiked through
Victoria, New South Wales and Queens-
land during their holidays. They accepted
92 lifts in all and walked only eight
miles.” Let’s consider this sensibly.
During the depression thousands of Aus-
tralians took to the track in search of
work and were darned lucky if they ever
got a lift. These new-style wanderers
set out with the intention of walking as
little as possible; they are out to cadge
their way round Australia. No doubt
they have a cheap and enjoyable holiday
and good luck to them, but it is ridiculous
to suggest that there is anything meri-
torious about their journeyings. The ten-
dency in Press reports is to regard these
youngsters as a kind of symbol of the
enterprise of Australian youth. It doesn’t
take much enterprise to stand at the road-
side thumbing a ride. Too many people
thumb their way through life already.
* * * *
“Plop”: The Czechoslovakian paper
“Trovba” denounced a pie-eating contest.
Stakes were about 355. Australian:
Should a new Socialist child develop an
ambition for this kind of prize?... .Each
properly-educated child is taught to eat
slowly, to digest his food well, not to stain
his clothes, and not to gain money in a
shameful way.
I think I can speak with authority, since,
as a small boy, I sought the banana-eating
iecord > having found an unattended tea-
case of the fruit. There were np other
candidates and any achievement was
purely fo r personal satisfaction. I be-
-1£ j e [ was cau §ht at the 34th banana,
and there the show ended —I know for
a certainty that I was glassy-eyed with a
odious attack. And so it would be, no
oubt, with pies. If “Trovba” was
a erupting to influence and warn the
younger, potential pie-eaters, they could
ve done it far more vividly with inter-
ews of some of the prizewinners after
w ev f nt ‘ the Y were attacking the con-
icsiants themselves, then they needn’t
P 7p \ bothered, for it is certain that
rmvp ° S °- Vakia s crack Pie-eaters will
or o r - agam v °iuntarily stain their clothes
gam money in such a shameful way.
. * * *
ahlp T tam a i ser ”i I have never been
demand- Understand wh Y the custom of
musical lr \ S encores in the middle of
tended ? ays °P era s hasn’t been ex-
Menzies lf st f ai ght ones. When Ivan
Piece u a ° a P art icularly smart
the aud; bUSlneSs * n . 'The Mikado” and
action , - o iei l Ce man^ests pleasure, the
hack ana stopped ’ the conductor turns
Pride an P d 8 l and tbe actors > beaming with
tures and Y ’ reBurne their former P os "
times d J Veryth '! lg 18 re P eate d, some-
cedure a 8 three times - This pro-
Plays like “a , followed in straight
It is obvionf 1 ? reetcar . Named Desire.”
masterpiece aildiences bke in that
Kowalski n°l he drama ‘ When Stan
bathroom ? remark . ab °ut the
"'hen Blanche i C ic l n to his kidneys,
the approved ? u° ls breaks a bottle in
thrusts" it into C th t0 f n ' PUSh fashion and
i° v er, and whUrtl faCe of a would ' b e
when the same half-demented
lady is picked up and carried behind a
curtain by the same he-man and the
audience shows unmistakable interest in
the performance the actors should come
back, take a bow and provide an encore,
This would improve the entertainment
value of many dull shows.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: The most astonishing query
ever put to me came the other day at the
corner of Sydney’s York- and Barrack-
streets. A lorrydriver, obviously on city
"She cant have typhoid if she's only got thrippence — she'll have to
have measles."
deliveries and old enough to know better,
asked, “Where’s the lott’ry office, mate?”
I was so dumbfounded at the novelty of
it that all I could do was feebly point
to the famous building at his back.
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: A divorce judge was sure
prised to bear that the Biblical habit of
“rending the garments” to express grief
still goes on. Orthodox Jews maintain it,
but it is a formalised sign of mourning
like wearing black. Each garment worn
has to be “rent,” but a small rip in some
unseen place, easily repaired when the
official period of sorrow is over, answers
all requirements. In the divorce case a
wife’s first suspicion was stirred when she
noticed that, besides being moody after
the departure of a woman friend, her
husband had “rent his garments” ; when
the other lady returned she kept a watch
on the pair which led to the divorce
action. The “rending of garments” is
not usually applied to such losses ; pos-
sibly feeling an inclination to mourn, the
tradition of marring his clobber gave the
husband some psychological satisfaction.
“Go six hearts or I'll have to get the supper."
“Jim O’Keeffe”: Ale-houses and grog-
shops the world over are places for
revelry and merriment —except in this
land of sunshine and freedom. Note the
red-hot reception anyone gets who starts
to sing in an Australian city pub. Bar-
maids turn flinty and snappy, proprie-
tors weigh-in with acrid commands to
shut up or get out, or the chucker-out
goes into action without more ado. Every
policeman within earshot spots a chance
of arrests for disorderly conduct, and the
other customers at the trough gaze with
reproof, contempt or pity, according to
their conditions and characters. Every-
one immediately assumes that the song-
starter—he never gets beyond the first
four bars—is sozzled. I don’t deny that
in many cases the pub-singer is a con-
founded nuisancebut why, in a country
with so many really good voices, is a
man unhesitatingly branded a rowdy lout
for doing what Press, films and stage lead
us to believe is common practice in coun-
tries rendered romantic by distance? The
rousing choruses in the old English inns,
the lieder and stein songs of central
Europe—in fact, any form of joyous
carolling—is charming, romantic, colorful
so long as it’s done by foreigners a long
away. In Australian cities it’s sheer
damn’ larrikinism.
“P.0.M.C.”: In vigorous ball games
I’ve always regarded the cove with the
whistle as just as much an athlete as the
struggling players he chases around the
field. But there are qualifications, appar-
ently. On an amateur radio session
recently a young tenor shook the house
with derisive laughter when, the an-
nouncer remarking: “You certainly look
the athletic type ; I suppose you follow
one or other of the sports?” the brawny
youth replied: “Yes, I umpire girls’
basketball games,”
# * * *
“Seahawk”: In an attempt to attract
recruits the R.A.N. has been compelled to
reduce the period of service from 12 to
six years. Tire slow response emphasises
the fact that Australians are not sea-
minded. True, the proportion of Aus-
tralian-born seamen in the mercantile
marine is about three times greater than
it was 30 years ago, but high pay rather
than the life itself is the attraction. Com-
pare the subject-matter of yams spun in
the fo’c’sle. At one time the talk would
range from Colombo to Callao, from
Singapore to ’Frisco, with perhaps a
digression by way of Lime-street, Liver-
pool. Truth may sometimes have suffered
in the spinning of the yarns, but they
were infinitely preferable to the modern
tales of prowess on the fields of Randwick
and Flemington geographical limits
beyond which so many Australian minds
refuse to range.
* * * *
“Billy See”: But wouldn’t the bank, if
the manager of Cockatoo Island Dock-
yard were to ask nicely, return him the
wool-cheque after it had been cancelled
(B. 25/1/’50)? Back in T 915, on receiv-
ing my first cheque for a literary effort, a
story published in the “Lone Hand,” I
wrote to the bank asking, as it was a very
special cheque, could I have it returned
after cancellation. It was a long way
from Kalgoorlie to Sydney in those days
and there was a war on, so I was not sur-
prised at not receiving an immediate
reply. Years after, on returning from the
war, I found the cancelled cheque waiting.
* * * *
“K.T.”: There’s a loose end somewhere
in “Uramao’s” story (B. 15/2/’5O) of the
small Auckland girl who arrived home
with the letters “TE” branded on her
leg. If the theory that she had pressed
her leg against a hot boiler is correct
Wouldn’t the impression have been re-
versed?
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Unusual professions.
One Anthony Houghton-le-touzel began
his career when, as a youth, he found him-
self starving, and then, after reading the
Sunday Observance Act of 1780, which
provides a reward for informers against
its mandates, decided to devote himself
to the protection of the Lord’s Day. This
sacred task has netted him hundreds of
smackers, his latest claim being for £2OO
for bringing an action against a restaurant
at Brighton for allowing a dance on
Easter Sunday. An engineer of a timber-
drogher once told me that in 20 years he
had only worked eight, his inordinate
quantity of leisure being provided by
workers’ compensation; to prove it he
showed me lumps, holes and blank places
in his anatomy, which may or may not
have been self-inflicted.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A Melbourne police raid on
an alleged s.p. betting-shop provided
some valuable statistics anent the ex-
pectancy of life among gamblers in the
Cabbage State. Of the 80-odd suspects
arrested, nine were over 80.
* * * *
“Carlyle”: Pioneer women medicos?
In 1884, when Constance Stone, of
Melbourne, decided to become a
■doctor, local prejudice compelled her
to seek enrolment at the Medical College
of Philadelphia, where women had been
admitted for more than a generation, and
where she later gained her M.D. with
honors. Another pioneer, Dr. Margaret
White, was the first woman to qualify at
Melbourne University, and although she
won first place on the honors-list and
gained exhibitions in surgery and
medicine, she was refused the traditional
right of the year’s outstanding student to
become a resident at Royal Melbourne
Hospital. As a result of similar dis-
crimination, in 1896 several women
medicos established the Queen Victoria
Hospital, where women would be assured
of freedom of research and professional
association. Today the Queen Vic., run
entirely by women and numbering more
than 70 women doctors on its staff, is the
largest place of its ‘kind in the world.
* * * *
“Barossa”: “K.H.H.” has left South
Australia’s queerest transport vehicle out
of his list (B. 14/12/’49). Known as the
“Pie-cart,” it ran between Port Broughton
and Mundoora. A plodding old nag used
to haul it up the incline from the port
to the town ; on the return journey the
horse stood on the platform at the rear
and the Pie-cart coasted for the whole of
the down-grade return trip, with the horse
having a ride as well as the passengers.
It is now in the S. A. Railways Museum.
* * ♦ »
“Si Anu”: There is a solution for the
Kyneton (Vic.) “mixed-bajpies” case. All
the two families would have to do would
be to arrange to live together. Then
neither of the children would feel ex-
cluded, the parents couldn’t say they were
excluded and all could share in the
children according to their capacity to do
so. The individual who gained or kept
the youngsters’ affection would be the
one who made the greatest efforts. The
only thing that would be excluded in that
case would be the law, which is notori-
ously incapable of solving mixed marital
relations, and the Jenkins-Morrison
family would be an inspiration to the
world for generations to come, instead of
merely being a subject of curious interest.
Of course, this solution would create fresh
problems just as difficult as the one it
solved, but that is what life is like.
QUITE UNFAIR.
*,«.* at «» had
JSS3^SSS£.”« , S W , &«
g, Sw»
sS<? practice reversing,
The words being moaned
°By^ osse*equipment thoracic
15 cru de ,
D °Tm SAlley-it’s really a classic!
Mnr must you suppose
Ju t b d St. Vitus,
ah its rhythmical jeiks
T^S p* a affright us.
That it couldn’t compare
W S an^P^by 1 Schubert or Strauss.
A Theyhadn’t the soul ot a louse.
‘Sets’’Tho’vf hatched
Out Se lyrics —Al, Butch, Sol and Abie.
fn 0 fh d eifSor 0 L K ne at bleats
{lave thought to rhyme “may be with
“baby”?
Immortality’s crown •
Not iust common renown
Will be theirs-they themselves will confer it.
Tough on them, it is true
Shakspeare landed it, too,
But what did the guy do to wear it? I
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Solitude”; Seventyfiver banged the
ants out of his pannikin and picked up
the jam-tin. “These things is gettin’
worse,” he scowled, vigorously blowing
the crawlers off the tin on to the table.
“They’ll be inter everythin’ the rate
they’re goin’. Come from the nest down
by the road, I s’pose. I’ll give the
blankers somethin’ t’ think erbout.” He
collected a shovel, went to the gigantic
ant-bed and started to dig. Quite a bit
of the time he spent stamping his feet
and cussing; and after ten minutes of
generous assistance his dog disgustedly
retired to the top of a big log and watched
from there. The old bloke scooped a
great hole in the centre of the bed, piling
the earth round the edge. “Got ’em
hoppin’ mad,” he announced half an hour
later, shedding ants with every step.
“Goin* t’ . . . Hell!” He dived for the
inside of his sock. “Goin’ to fill that
hole with sheep-dip presently an’ . . .
Aw, cripes ... an’ fill ’em in.” He re-
newed his attack as I went for my nag.
Later I found Seventyfiver and Blue
squatted on the step staring with poker-
faces towards the ant-bed. “Give ’em
something to think about?” I asked idly.
“Not erzactly,” drawled the old bloke,
coming slowly out of his daze. “I clean
f’got we didn’t ’ave no more dip left,”
* * * *
“Kesem” r A marked tree of
Leichhardt’s 1844-45 trip has been
lately found in deep scrub by,.a man
named Davidson, on Downfall Creek, on
the Dawson side of the range. Realising
the present-day feeling for historical
relics, Davidson cut out a hefty slice
of the ironbark, on which the initial
“L” Is still clearly shown, humped it to
his home and dispatched it to Newstead
House, in Brisbane, where other histori-
cal objects are safeguarded. It is cer-
tainly a Leichhardt relic, the initial cut
with a tomahawk. Not far from this
find, but on the south side of the range,
another ironbark stood for nearly 75
years with the same mark, but bushfires
have destroyed it.
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d just got into
Narromine from the Bogan country with
a couple of respectable cheques, booked
a room in a pub, cleaned ourselves up,
had some refreshment and were on the
veranda looking at Narromine when a
decent young chap started yarning to us.
We learned he’d been having a tough
spin and was broke, so we took him into
tea and afterwards gave him 10 bob.
Later we were in the passage near the
kitchen, and there was the young chap
inviting one of the girls to go to a dance
with him, “What!” Mat roared. “On
our half-nicker! Not on y’r life y’
don’t. Think a man’s goin’ t’ slave his
guts out makin’ dough f’r galoots like
you t’ spend on wimmen!” And he
shoved the young cove against the wall,
held him with one hand, went through
him with the other, and retrieved the 10
bob. Mat was still indignant about it
when we reached Sydney two days later.
* * * *
“Yowi”: Found in a mangrove on a
tidal creek on Hinchinbrook, a great-
billed heron chick is the only one of
its kind in captivity. It’s at Mt. St. John
Zoo, near Townsville. It is one of the
rarest and shyest of Australian birds, and
its presence is invariably associated with
crocodiles. It mounts guard over sleep-
ing or basking crocs, and at the first hint
of danger its bull-like croak sends them
slithering to safety. It has been seen
pecking with its great grey bill at the
teeth of basking crocs, who open their
jaws to have their teeth cleaned. The
zoo owner, St. John Robinson, who has
shot and trapped crocodiles in northern
waters for 50 years, said this was the first
specimen he had seen at close quarters.
The bird is extremely sensitive to humans,
and after giving the warning cry rises
and flaps away, repeating the cry.
Although only a few weeks old, the
chick already stands about 3ft. high. Its
brownish pin-feathers will change to a
dull grey plumage, and at maturity it
will reach a height of nearly sft.
* * * *
“Eremophila”: A few miles from this
blistered section of inland South Australia
is a native ochre mine that was formerly
visited by abos from as far away as
Central Queensland. The abos battled
their way down through hundreds of
miles of desert country, buying their
passage through the domain of other
tribes and apparently paying royalties to
the tribal owners of the bonanza. With
all the hardships of the outward trip be-
hind them they found themselves con-
fronted by countless tons of the red stuff
—enough to make the owners millionaires,
according to abo. values. Whatever was
taken away had to be carried over
hundreds of miles of gibber and sand,
but despite this Binghi often behaved, in
the presence of this mother-lode, about
as rationally as white prospectors do when
confronted with a rich gold reef. Many
parties must have cast away their worldly
possessions in order to load themselves
more heavily with the precious mineral,
and probably got back with only a small
part of the ochre with which they started.
* * * *
“Beau Forte”: Joe decided to discard
the spud in his hip-pocket and the copper
ring on his finger and try one of those
electric belts for his rheumatism. Joe
quickly responded to the new treatment,
sdf
“So this is what happens when I let you go to the pictures alone!"
Within a month he was a brand-new man,
and he was telling all rheumatic sufferers
in the district of his great discovery—
then he had a relapse. A letter arrived
telling him that batteries were not sup-
plied with the belt but could be had for
an extra 10s.
* * * *
“San Mateo”: I’ve seen seagulls on a
fresh-water Murray billabong near
Mildura (B. l/3/’5O) at least 150 miles
by air-line from the sea. It’s reasonable
to suppose the birds followed the river
up from the South Aust. coast, which
meant a journey of probably 700 or 800
miles.
* * * ♦
“Anthropo”: Although it is generally
accepted that there were two invasions of
what “Bogaduck” (B. 8/2/’5O) calls the
“Murrayians,” there is no evidence that
these waves were different racially. The
fact of two invasions is shown in that
when the warlike Bibbulmuns, later of
the W.A. south-west, passed down the
western coastal regions they pushed back
remnants of the first invasion towards
the inner desert and out to the islands
that fringe the coast of the Kimberleys.
But, except that they were of inferior
physique, the Pindans, or desert blacks,
differed in no essential from the Bibbul-
muns, Many of the Pindans and other
interior tribes practised circumcision, a
practice alien to the Bibbulmuns. Early
students of the abo., such as George
Grey, with ample living material to study
held that the primitive Australians were
as a race homogeneous; physically the
same ; using the same weapons and imple-
ments ; speaking a language which, though
split into many dialects, derived from
the same common roots. Grey gives an
example of this in the term “woomera,”
used by the Bibbuimun to define a
throwing-board. The essential of this is
“mera.” And “mera” is to be found in
the word defining a throwing-board right
round the continent. Other similarities
could be quoted. The Tasmanians were,
of course, a different race. And if the
portraits in Freycinet’s atlas, 1807, are
a guide, a rather better-looking people.
As a large remnant of Tasmanians were
probably still on the north side of Bass
Strait when the Murrayians arrived they
undoubtedly were assimilated by the in-
vaders. Which should have left traces
in the Victorian tribes. This was the
case, since the woman-stealing ruffians
who, during the early part of last cen-
tury, haunted the south coast always held
the Port Phillip women to be superior
physically to any others that lay within
reach of their clutches.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: If “B. A. Ker” had
known anything about snakes (B. l/3/’5O)
he’d have known that one was dead from
the mere fact of its being still there
after he’d travelled a hundred yards
and back to get a stick. All snake-
wise bushmen know you only see a snake
once ; take your eyes off it and it’s gone.
H: ♦ j*j
“H.W.”: Pututara, the shell trumpet
of the ancient Maori, were made from
large triton shells, the apex neatly cut off,
the mouth scraped, the whole shell
polished and a mouthpiece of hardwood,
suitably hollowed and carved, fitted. To
increase the sound of this conch a thin
piece of hard, dark wood, broadly ellip-
tical, measuring sin. by 3in., was dex-
terously fitted in the whorl of the shell.
Only one species of wood was sonorous
enough, pigeon-wood (Hedycarya dentatd).
From this were also made loud-sounding
drums or gongs called pahu, which were
suspended in the principal forts of the
Maori or hung in hollow trees. Pututara’s
wooden mouthpiece was bound with bark
of the Hoheria populnea, steeped in gum
made from seeds of pittosporum. A very
old specimen named Te awa a te atm,
now in the Auckland Museum, was said
to have been seen lying on the beach by
Tuwharetoa, at Matata, when the canoe
Arawa arrived in New Zealand centuries
ago. Its purpose thereafter was not to
sound an alarm but to signal the birth of
a first-born male to Maori chiefs.
* * * *
“Brid”: On the coast of North Queens-
land, what we used to call “crays” were
a greenish-grey color when hauled from
the water, and put on their red overcoats
after going into the boiler. Here, in
Tassie, the cray is red-tinted naturally,
going a deeper shade when cooked. Some
say the N.Q. crustacean is a lobster, not
a cray, but it’s good eating whichever
name it goes under. Recently a Tas.
fisherman brought in a bright-blue cray.
What name that one?
* * * He
“Colonial Cove”: The return-
boomerang (B. 8/ 2/ ’5O) was known to
every tribe on the continent; the tribes
of south-west W.A. could throw it as well
as any of those in eastern Australia.
And that goes for the Aruntas and others
of the Centre. The really odd thing is
that the tribes of the Kimberleys lost the
art of making and throwing the return
type, though they stuck to a plain chop-
ping form, very effective when thrown at
schools of mullet and other medium fish
in shallow waters. The Kimberley tribes
somehow came to rely' mostly on the
spear and the dowark, or throwing-stick.
Nor did the western tribes Dr a cf
any elaborate strategy 0 f t&o2
boomerangs to scare ducks into nets a
hunter suddenly appearing on the edeV A*
a river or a pool, and at the same mom,.!
starting his kylie in flight, migh?R
down several birds with the single thrm
His technique was to send the kylie skim
mmg just above the water towards th
swimming ducks. These at its annroaoK
rose in flight, but just at that Sem
the missile would leap upwards into their
midst, never failing to bring at least one
bird down. It required judgment and in
finite practice to be able to do it. Rut
the abo. started young. ' 1
* * * *
“Amdee”; Breakfast in New Guinea on
Monday morning, dredge-construction
workers tramping into the huge mess-
hall with Mondayitis all over them
Native youths in white laplaps at cadi
table ready to serve up the best of food
A slice of pawpaw, with lemon and
sugar, cleared the nasty taste from mv
mouth, but Diesel Dick, a huge engineer
needed no such pamperings of palate He
roared in pidgin for “Ten fellar’ kea
belong skin cook ’im strong! ” i n came a
soup-plate piled with 10 hard-boiled eggs
“Bring ’im ten fellar more,” roars D D
and 20 hard-boiled eggs fronted Bulolo’s
champion glutton. I was thankful that
Diesel’s order was “Kea belong skin” not
“Kea belong grease.” The thought of 20
fried eggs sliding about in the cavernous
depths of a stomach still belching fumes
of whisky would put me off bacon and
eggs for ever!
* * * *
“Naturala”; That trick of tearing off
or disabling some part of captured but
still-living prey (B. 8/2/’5O) is as old as
creation. One of the fiercest grudges
early Victorian squatters held against the
abos was the latter’s common practice
when, having driven off more sheep than
they could eat at one sitting, they broke
the legs of the remainder to prevent them
straggling away. Papuan natives knew
the same trick, though as often as not
the crippled dinner-in-prospect was
human.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Our town brigade’s prac-
tice when fire broke out was to give 10s.
to the man who was first on the scene
with a horse to hitch to the fire-engine.
Later a horse was bought and kept on
the premises. The brigademen had worked
out the various times Darkie would take
to reach the seat of any outbreak within
the borough, and all were alert for it. At
last the bell boomed out one night.
Darkie got off the mark all right, took
the bit between his teeth, shot past the
street where the fire was, and was not
pulled up till a couple of miles beyond.
When the engine got back to the fire it
had been put out by buckets of water.
* * * *
“Hopski”: Some record tallies have
been put up by fruit- and hop-pickers in
Tassie this season. At Lachlan, near New
Norfolk, a Mrs. Plunkett harvested
5001 b. of loganberries in one day of
hours,. She has been fruit-picking all
her life; and is just as good gathering
hops. Last year she picked 5891 b. in
a day and earned a cheque for £6O in
four weeks.
* * * *
“E. & 0.E.”: The cove who goes
motoring in the countiy for pleasure
often misses it by speeding madly front
place to place along the highways. The
byways are usually more interesting and
rewarding. It is along the byways one
finds the pleasant farms, friendly people,
lovely scenes, wise dogs in charge of sheep
or cattle, and so on. I have had to pul
up to allow a fat porcupine or a family
party of ground-nesting birds to cros
the road before me, and felt well repai
by the sight. But what chance has tn
driver intent only on passing the car
front? He never sees places of h} 8
interest, the flora or fauna of the distn ■
Wayside picnic meals make no 3PP
the speedhog, and as for wasting “
admiring the landscape —well!
* * * *
“Ceg”: “Emjai’s” tirade against die
blackbird (B. 22/2/’5O) suggests that
late green-peas copped it. However,
peas would likely have been not m
good, and what are a few pounds or p
compared with the song of a blacßDi
dawn or dusk? What an antidote
against the cries of neighbors’ chi
wireless-sets, cats and all the rest 1 ? by
suburban uproar. Man does not n
bread alone, and the bird whic
inspired poets and songwriters sho
encouraged and not derided. As I
plums and apples, has “E.’’ ever
pared the color of a blackbird s egg
his green plums? There’s inspira i
an artist if you like. I am with
gong,” and suggest to “Emjar n
sit on his back veranda, but with gars
closed to the peas and plums ana
open to the blackbird’s song.
CENTRALIA.
This was a land you had not known about:
Vast, ever-reaching, parched and hotly-old,
A world that swept from spinifex to sand
And back to spinifex, a world that told
The story of Australia at a glance.
This was a land you’d only guessed about:
Now all-discovered, Namatjira-so; '
A world of silent courage and, it seemed,
A place of all the poetry we know
That all Australia’s poets ever wrote.
N.S.W.
LAN HEALY.


“Flinders Range”: Leaving gibber and
bindi-eye behind, you stumble across a
wilderness of splintered rock and black-
oak scrub which ends abruptly at a 10ft.
sheer creek bank ; the bed of the creek is
of small boulders. On the opposite side
grows the useless dead-finish. Under the
near-bank, on a bed of gravel deposited
by some past eddy, grow three or four
green bushes, the largest nearly sft. high
and with a diameter between Bft. and
10ft The leaves are heart-shaped, and
most of them are folded along the mid-
rib Leaves and leaf-stems are spotted
with black dots that a lens shows as pig-
mented skin-cells. The flowers have a
double calyx, the inner of five united
segments, the outer of three green heart-
shaped b’racteoles, also black-spotted. The
five pale purple petals arc each a little
more than 2in. long and so wide that,
when the flower is expanded, each over-
laps its neighbor. At the base of each
petal, inside the flower, lines of crimson
swirl out in tangential radiation from the
centre. The flower is crisp, delicate but
full of character —altogether a miracle
in its setting of rock, black-oak and dead-
finish. It is Gossypium sturtii, better
known as Sturt’s rose. One of the mallow
family, it belongs to the same genus as
the commercial cotton-bushes.
• * * *
“Carnal”: Stanislaus Something—a
long string of Polish consonants —joined
the falling gang in the forestry planta-
tion. Presently he was made foreman,
whereupon the tally of cut pine rose
sharply. It made the forester curious,
and he turned up to see how things were
going. The gang was at smoke-oh and he
saw one still working. “Smoke-oh,” said
Stanislaus largely, jvaving his hand at the
men. “Yes,” said the forester, “but what
about Anton idown there?” Stanislaus
glanced briefly at the lone worker and
explained. “Anton? Oh, he no smoke.”
* * * *
“Espee”: I put a dead goanna on an
ant-bed. A few days later I found the
skeleton left and within it a china ncst-
eBg- Now I know what killed the go.
"Easy on the pumps!”
be e^arrested Frenchma n who has
death is aiip n aonnec tion with his wife’s
with curare !° bave poisoned her
the old lepen^+u l6 daibes bave revived
South poison ’ which
bl °wpip e dar ? e an . lndlan s used on their
Merest scratch it’ 1$ sudden death at the
* b o jeurneved i Pret^ qUick> Waterton >
Dutch Guiana t t V ou S h the jungles of
m , ari to procure 1° ? ecome the first white
fis death dealin d USC curare > had heard
no proof if l properties ’ but could
P 00t of them. Travellers and
novelists told of men and animals drop-
ping dead at the mere prick of a dart,
and most natives dreaded it, but even in
the locality where it was used in hunting
an d warfare he was met with such a
welter of conflicting reports that he began
to doubt its efficacy. Having procured
some—“the strongest I could get”—he
shc j t a poisoned arrow into a dog, taking
care to avoid a vital part. The dog died
in about 10 minute s. To discover whether
t b e po j son WO uld kill an animal “the
size anc j strength of a man,” he shot three
arrows i nto a strong young bullock—
ono hind _ leg and Qne in the end
of the nose, traversely. Within four
minutes the poison started to take effect,
and the beast died in 25 minutes. Water-
ton, a keen naturalist and bird- and
animal-lover, emphasises that the victims
appea r to feel ho pain whatever, death
occurring, from the time the poison starts
to operate, as though sleep were over-
powering them. When a friend was about
to kill a s i o th, which was to be skinned
an( j stuffed, Waterton administered curare
because it seemed the easiest death.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The wife’s scream was a
blood-freezer. We collided in the hall ;
I, with no conspicuous bravery, moving
towards the bedroom and she bolting
from it. “A ghostly hand!” she gasped,
“I saw it through the curtains. It was
greyish-looking, and it had some fingers
missing. And it drummed on the window
sort of softly as though it wasn’t real.”
The hair on the back of my neck was
bristling as I put the light out and waited
in the haunted room. There was no
movement. Courage returned. ‘Til go
outside and catch whoever it is,” I de-
dared—and hoped she’d talk me out of
it. She didn’t. The night was not corn-
pletely dark ; stars made an eerie light,
But no interloper was visible. Moreover
the flower-bed under the window didn’t
appear to have been disturbed. The
lighted kitchen looked strangely inviting
as I returned. “Must have been imagipa-
tion,” I told the wife. It didn’t convince
her—nor me. “It wasn’t imagination,
she said grimly—and held the bedroom
door open. After 10 minutes of blood-
thumping silence in the darkness I ven-
tured a withdrawal. “There’s nothing
there,” I declared, basking in the com-
forting light again. And then I heard it —■
a soft, ghostly tapping; and the three-
fingered hand showed behind the curtain,
Ghost? Well, when my heart stopped
bouncing against my tonsils I opened the
window. A huge hawk-moth rushed in
and committed suicide against the lamp,
* . , * * TT , *
“Old-timer : Young Holt, rooting
round in almost a quarter-century s
rubbish piled in the old shed behind the
men’s hut—none of us could remember
when anyone went in there last—un-
earthed an ancient double-barrelled
muzzle-loading pistol. Its two octagonal
barrels were one above the other; evi-
dently the practice was to fire one, then
spin them to bring the other under the
hammer. The cap-nipples were each
iiru long, and trigger and hammer were
huge and ornate. Holt prized the thing
tremendously. He put in his spare time
with sandpaper and oil and got rid of
most of the rust and dirt. Presently he
had the trigger working and the barrels
revolving. Then, of course, came the
desire to fire it. The local store kept
only cartridges, but a city firm supplied
caps, powder and lead. One Sunday
morning young Holt charged one barrel
with powder and a wad, capped the
nipple, walked clear of the hut, pointed
the thing at the west and pulled the
trigger. There was a roar and a cloud of
smoke, things whizzed about, Holt fell
over and a dog yelped and ran around
in circles. We ‘'picked Holt up; he was
unhurt and still clutched a bit of the
stock—the rest of that ancient weapon
had vanished, except for the bit in the
dog.
* * * *
“Dave”: At Ryan’s petrol-pump two
sons of local wool-kings leaned on the
elongated snouts of two English sports-
cars while Ryan filled one with petrol,
“I came from Hay to Deni., averaging
ct*
“When I say stop I MEAN slop!”
76,” said one. The other nodded thought-
fully. “Not bad. Last Saturday I left
here at 9.30 and got to Flemington for the
first; 210 miles in three and a half hours ;
cut 20 minutes off that coming home next
morning.” The first patted the bonnet of
his car. “She’s a little beaut. Know that
claypan past the clump of box at the
Fifteen-mile? Touched 94 there, but
couldn’t let her go ’cos the old man’s
weaners were camped along the track.”
Ryan hung up the petrol-hose, went inside
and came out with a tape-measure. He
measured one young cove across the
shoulders, then stooped down with the
tape to measure his height. Young Wool-
pack pushed him off with “What’s the
matter?” “Don’t worry, lads,” said Ryan.
“Old Jake Sexton the undertaker is a
mate of mine and I thought I’d save him
a bit of time. ’Cause if he’s got your
measurements he can go straight ahead
and be ready when it comes, which ought
t’ be any time now. And y’ could”—but
the rest was lost in the roar of two
exhausts.
* * * *
“G.F.M.”: “How’s the new-hand?”
asked Jim of Pop Smithers. “Sacked
him,” exploded Pop. “Why?” “Why!
Listen, the other day I leave him to boil
the milk for the pigs while I takes the
cream out. I hear a terrible row from
the pigsty, and when I rush .back there's
half the milk spilt and the pigs tearin’ all
over the place squealin’ and pawin at
their snouts. The fool had fed the stuff
to ’em hot!” “Aw, well, p’raps he wasn’t
thinking,” opined Jim. “It’ll teach him
not t’ go scaldin’ pigs with hot
“Aw, it wasn’t that,” Pop “lts
wastin’ the stuff got him the sack.”
* * * *
“Oomalas”: After burying one of
native laborers “Christian fashion/’ I
stepped back to allow his “one talks to
conduct their tribal rites. After care-
fully placing his worldly possessions at
his right hand they filled in about 2ft.,
and then each one in turn jumped up and
down on the ncwly-shovclled earth. More
earth was shovelled and more jumping
followed. Then a heavy stone was placed
over the head end and the shovelling was
completed. Next a fence was erected
around the grave and on each corner-
post a charm, consisting of flowers and
leaves, was placed. There were no signs
of grief, and I was told “ ’im ’e no big
pela man, boy das all,” which being in-
terpreted means he didn’t cut any ice in
the tribal social life.
♦ * * •
“Veteran”: Dad’s eyes roved sorrow-
fully over his withering crops, then he
chucked the drowned magpie out of the
last two rungs of drinking-water, tested
the petrol-tank on the utility and found
it empty, and walked half-a-mile up the
hill for old Punch. He examined the
dumper’s hoofs and was lamenting the
shortage of horseshoes as Dave threw
aside the city daily he’d been snatching a
look at. “There’s a smart alec here
having a shot at us blokes,” he said,
jerking his head at the paper. “Reckons
cockies is just like a squeakin’ wheel,
Makes out we complain all the time only
t’ get more grease.” Solemnly Dad
spread the harness on Punch and backed
him between the shafts of the ancient
cart. “Doesn’t know what he’s talkin’
about,” continued Dave. “Easy seen he
ain’t never done any cockyin’.” Dad led
Punch an experimental step forward,
grabbed a tin, and bent over an axle.
“P’raps he thinks he’s missin’ out on
somethin’,” Dave went on. “Anyway, if
he ain’t satisfied, what’s stoppin’ ’im
doin a bit of squeakin’ on ’is own
account.” Came a low, derisive chuckle
from the old man that brought Dave’s
head round inquiringly. “Well, whats
wrong with that?” he prompted after a
while. “Eh? Aw, well, me boy, y’ c’n
un’erstand a wheel creakin’ a bit under
the load it’s carryin’,” drawled the old
bloke, “but there don’t seem much sense
in the cushions an’ trimmin’s raisin’ a
squeak. Gripes, if the things fell clean
off the ol’ wheels’d pull the cart along
just the same.”
* * * *
“Carnal”: Help! I handed the Bulle-
tin’s 70th anniversary number to a New
Australian who reads to improve his
English. He went well for a while, oc-
casionally asking about some word. He
chuckled over “Wharflaborers,” doubt-
less filling in the blanks in his own
language. But he got into deeper waters
with “The Man From Snowy River,”
and as I write he’s into “The Sentimental
Bloke,” and sitting there looking a bit
stunned. Either I tell him that it s in a
foreign lingo or I’ll spend my spare time
for the next month explaining it.
* * * *
“Law”: The other day I saw a wedge-
tailed eagle dive towards grass at the edge
of sorghum. A hare darted into the
cover of the sorghum and the eagle
zoomed out of the dive and hovered,
waiting. Two crows came at the eagle,
emitting cries. The eagle, in short dives,
drove the unseen hare through pad-
dock, up to the dividing fence and finally
into the open. By now there were about
20 crows and sundry magpies and pee-
wees diving and snapping at the slow-
moving eagle. The hare changed
direction and bolted about in small
circles through the grass paddock, the
eagle, with a surprising ability m
manoeuvring, following its movds from
20ft. above. Then the eagle dived, turn-
ing its feet to the ground at the
final moment. The thud with, which
it hit jarred it. It missed the
hare. Pausing, for what seemed time
to recover from the jar, it rose a S a in.
By now the squawking mixture of birds
snapping round it were so many that I
felt it would have to give up the chase
'to get away from their worrying. But
with complete unconcern for this rabble,
it took up the chase again. On the next
dive there was no mistake. The talons
hit the hare and the ground with a force
that, if taken on the shoulders by a stand-
ing man, would knock him flat on the
ground. I believe stories of killed lambs
and calves now. The eagle flew away
with the hare in its claws. On a high
dead tree on a hilltop it ate its meal with
half the feathered rabble still there,
showing off to each other in close dives
to the bird all feared, but which was too
busy to worry about them.
TO MY DAUGHTER- IN - LAW .
T o think that so £pf afl wdte"his, ’
1 little girl, Pfjt nc j er an apple-tree,
wo Sfher S. the grass and with a kiss
£<° sleep ' ' '
And she ont d ?.'and^draw'hiro’to her breast.
And give him ea- e anh can give h,m peace
bul IO chsw
H»» will jgJJd oufof my sweet loon,
. i„„ well mv unknown little girl,
Oneday a°pti n ee will come and break your toys.
He rootles m‘ the mu mother’s arms.
fsend C hS live, though it be much too soon.
N.S.W.
DAVID MARTIN.


fe-i
7//'V * %r 4/ 7 Lz// •
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
To Safeguard Your Estate
One Executor with the knowledge of many
T HB
combined knowledge of a group of
specialists is permanently available, when you
appoint the Union Trustee as your Executor,
Trustee or Attorney,
Administration of all classes of Estates has been
a responsibility of the Company for 65 years.
The accumulated experience of its well-trained
officers assures for you and your beneficiaries
the greatest benefit, with the least inconvenience
—at a moderate charge.
Why not arrange for a confidential interview?
Call, phone or write for your copy of “Important
Facts Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) (Established 1885)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney: 398-402 Queen St.,
and at Aibary, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton UT S
The [?] COLUMAN
British Tobacco Co. (Australia), Ltd.
British Tobacco and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends N Nominal
Pref. Re-
Oct., Profit. p.c. Ordinary. serves.f
£ it £ £
1940.. 990,140 101,401 10 p.c. = 862,944 1,353,463
Unexplained addition, £ll2l .. 1,354,584
1941.. 978,088 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,378,009
Unexplained addition, £lOO7 ~ .. 1,379,016
1942.. 983,187 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,407,541
Unexplained addition, £16,112 ..1,423,653
1943.. 981,427 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,450,418
Unexplained addition, £9902 .. 1,460,320
1944.. 961,910 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,467,568
Unexplained addition, £16,305 .. 1,483,873
1945.. 948,915 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,478,126
Unexplained addition, £13,090 .. 1,491,216
1946.. 960,158 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,496,712
Unexplained reduction, £6083 ..1,490,629
1947.. 951,403 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,487,370
Unexplained addition, £736 .. 1,488,106
1948.. 956,324 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,489,768
Share premiums, £1,338,848 .. 2,828,616
Unexplained reduction, £3OlB .. 2,825,598
1949.. 999,983 111,188 9 p.c. = 883,640 2,830,753
* After deducting outsiders’ interests.
f Subject to intangibles {now £3,969,660), and
excludes property and plant reserve, £2,937,447.
This big and five main
operating subsidiaries—enjoys a com-
manding position in the Australian
tobacco trade. The public is interested
through the holding co.’s scrip, which is
one of the leaders in the industrial section
of the sharemarket. The ords., for which
the high and low price-bracket in 1949
was 545. 3d.-445. 6d., fetched 545. 9d.
last week as against 50s. 6d. a month ago.
Apart from the influence of a one-for-
seven new ord. issue in June, 1949, the
price has mainly followed market trends.
Sydney Stock Exchange price-index for
industrials showed a drop of 13 p.c. for
the first six months of 1949, but the whole
of the ground lost had been practically
regained by the end of the year, since
when there has been a further rise of
5.6 pc.
At 545. 9d. the ords. give an immediate
return of only 3.3 p.c. on a 9 p.c, div.
basis, and there is nothing in sight at the
moment to suggest either a lift in the div.
or an early issue of bonus scrip. The
attraction is the co.’s strong position,
financially and technically, and the possi-
bility of further share capital being asked
for at a later date. Apart from any in-
crease in dollar price, the cost of
American leaf in Australian money has
been bumped up by approximately 44 p.c.
as the result of the September, 1949, cur-
rency devaluation. And, with things as
they are, the co. will have to ask its
bankers again to assist in purchase of its
current year’s U.S. leaf requirements, the
chairman says. Also production, re-
stricted by the dollar shortage, is running
a losing race with demand, while growth
of population, stimulated by immigration,
is calling for progressive increase in out-
put.
Most of the £1,338,848 of fresh capital,
e t c - the etcetera is a like amount of
share premiums—gathered last year was
used to wipe out bank overdrafts
(£2,512,465 at close of accounts in
1948):
Consolidated Figures.
„ .. , 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. £11,082,521 £11,082,521 £12,421,369
Outside shares* 90,345 90,245 91,174-
Deprec. reserve 2,714,083 2,809,659 2,937,447
Creditors) .. 4,105,203 4,599,498 2,479,696
Freeholds .. 1,410,472 1,482,572 1,522,392
Plant, etc. .. 1,940,696 2,123,884 2,185,907
Stocks .. 10,700,474 11,138,437 11,154,779
Debtors .. 1,541,958 1,294,241 1,413,229
Shares other cos. 101 101 101
Cash, etc. .. 9,930 156,515 621,479
Goodwill, etc... 3,969,610 3,969,660 3,969,660
* Includes proportion of reserves,
t Includes tax provision, etc.
The year’s growth in stocks, which repre-
sent over half total assets, was £16,342, in
book debts £118,988 and in fixed assets
£101,843. The improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£10,709,892) was
£2,720,096, or £42,400 more than the new
share capital and premium money com-
bined.
All factories in the group worked with-
out interruption, thanks to the manage-
ment’s foresight in providing auxiliary
power units. After deducting the equity
of outside shareholders, allowing
£149,454 (up £29,873) for depreciation
and an unspecified amount for taxation,
the profit was £43,659 better at £999,983.
That was enough to pay the pref. div.
and show a shade over 9 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 9, 8.9, 9 and 8.9 p.c.
back to 1945. The div. was kept at 9 p.c.
for the ninth year in succession, and the
£5155 that remained lifted free reserves
to £2,830,753. In addition there are
“reserves against real estate, buildings,
machinery and plant” totalling £2,937,447
(up £127,778), some of which is prob-
ably genuine profit—fixed assets appear
at cost. On capital as it now stands, the
pref. div. and 9 p.c. to the ords. will call
for £1,075,852, or £75,869 more profit
than was claimed last term.
Of the five big operating subsidiaries,
largest contributor to the pool is W. D.
and H. O. Wills, which has a paid capital
of £6,112,465 in 623,583 7 p.c. prefs. and
5,488,880 ords. After allowing £69,404
for depreciation and £405,386 for other
provisions, mostly taxation, it netted
£756,161 and paid £732,547 in divs. for
the year to Oct. 31, 1949. Its assets total
£15,758,557, and the aggregate assets of
the group £20,867,547.
On the production side chief problem
today is the shortage of American leaf,
owing to the dollar problem. The follow-
ing Government statistics of production
and consumption of manufactured
tobacco in Australia show what has hap<-
pened over the last three years:
Manufactured Tobacco
c—*~in millions of pounds—
Production. Consumption.
1946’-47 .. .. 28.2 29.1
1947- .. ~ 29.1 82.0
1948- .. ~ 28.1 34.0
The gap between production and con-
sumption has been covered mainly by
imports, most of which contain leaf of
dollar origin, and they retail at higher
prices than the locally-made product.
Since there is thus little or no saving to
the Empire dollar pool, the co.’s own
authorised dollar purchases could be in-
creased with benefit to local consumers
and employment. In the near future, im-
ported supplies ,of cigarettes and tobacco
are likely to be reduced at the source,
again on account of dollars. So, unless
local manufacture is allowed to expand,
cigarettes and tobacco will be in short
supply, as well as dearer, before long.
Increased production would also be an
effective weapon against the vicious spiral
of wages chasing living costs and selling-
prices chasing production costs. The co.
is encouraging the growth of suitable
Australian leaf, but it accounts for only
a small fraction of total requirements.
Masonite Corporation (Australia), Ltd.
r- I—Divs. 1 —Divs. ~ To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Ords. Def. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
8 p.c. 61.9 p.c.
1943 ~ 32,979 20,001 7,750 5,228 527
79.6 p.c.
1944 .. 37,438 20,001 9,950 7,487 8,014
84 p.c.
1945 .. 38,718 20,250 10,500 7,968 15,982
96 p.c.
1946 .. 44,058 22,562 12,000 9,496 25,478
84 p.c.
1947 .. 40,906 23,000 10,500 7,406 32,884
12j p.c. 292 p.c.
1948 ~ 93,465 35,937 36,500 21,028 53,912
180 p.c.
1949 ~ 65,496 35,938 22,500 7,058 60,970
•After deducting intangibles, £14,426.
Demand for the products of this 12-year-
old —the factory at Raymond Terrace
(N.S.W.) turns out pressed-wood building
and insulating materials —is still running
ahead of output despite the recent addi-
tion of another unit to the plant, triplicat-
ing its capacity. And the long-term out-
look is one of a steadily expanding
market. So the question of still further
additions to plant, etc., remains in the
foreground, and is to be attended to when
the board considers the moment ripe. No
immediate issue of fresh capital for the
purpose is contemplated ; but the path is
to be cleared by doubling nominal capital
by the creation of 287,500 new £1 ords.
and 100,000 new deferred shares of
2s. 6d, each.
The present £300,000 of paid capital is
in 287,500 £1 ords. and 100,000 2s. 6d.
deferreds. The ords. were taken locally,
and the deferreds by Masonite Corp.
(L T .S.) for cash in return for rights to
manufacturing processes, etc. They are
entitled to 50 p.c. of the profits after the
ords. have had 7 p.c., enjoy the right to
elect three of the seven directors and rank
after the ords. for return of capital. So
creation of additional deferreds will not
stand in the way of the ords. either in
respect of dividend or capital security.
The slip of £27,969 in last year’s net
earnings was a direct result of the impact
of floods, power-rationing and, toward
the close of accounts, the mischievous coal
strike upon production and costs. And
the whole year’s output was sold at
voluntarily reduced prices which came
into operation at the beginning of 1948.
The £65,496 of profit claimed (21.8 p.c.
on total capital) was written after allow-
ing a generous £37,721 (up £1700) for de-
preciation and £40,366 (down £17,504) for
taxation, and was second-best in the co.’s
history. It belonged £42,810 to the ords.
and £22,686 to the deferreds, the ratio
to their capitals being 14.9 p.c. and
181.5 p.c. respectively, as against 19.7 p.c.
and 293.3 p.c. respectively for the preced-
ing term. The ord. div. was kept at
124 p.c., but payment to the deferreds was
lowered from 292 p.c. to 180 p.c. The
deferreds are, of course, in clover. Over
the last nine years they have received
divs. aggregating £120,943, or more than
nine and a half times their paid capital,
the average rate being 107.4 p.c. During
the same period ord. divs. averaged
8.1 p.c.
Balance-sheet figures mainly reflect
completion of the third plant unit already
referred to:
1945. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £281,245 £BOO,OOO £300,000 £300,000
Creditors .. 16,396 21,845 32,672 66,062
Tax reserve . . f 54,750 29,275 59,850 37,175
Welfare fund 10,000 10,000
Final divs. . . 21,201 22,000 60,937 44,063
Freehold and ’
buildings .. 70,701 104,205 147,842 168,027
Machinery, plant
and fittings 84,905 109,126 112,560 139,742
Stocks . . 47,464 71,101 118,107 127,640
Debtors .. 30,869 39,653 70,353 77,189
Cash and in-
vestments . 153,893 76,919 63,509 672
Subsid. co. .. 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
Intangibles .. 14,426 14,426 14,426 14,426
The year’s net addition to freeholds, etc.,
was £20,185, to plant £27,182, to stocks
£9533, to book debts £6836 and to the
amount coming to sundry creditors
£33,390. There was a contraction of
£40,309 in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£58,201), owing to the outlay on fixed
assets.
The coal strike held up production for
nearly seven weteks at the beginning of the
current term, but output has been unin-
terrupted since, and, to help offset rising
costs, a net surcharge of Is. 6d. on the
selling price of masonite was authorised
in August last. Including this addition,
nearly three-quarters of the co.’s output
is still selling at from 25 p.c. to 30 p.c.
below pre-war charges. Chief danger to
earnings at the moment lies in the possi-
bility of production being interrupted by
power restrictions and stoppages in de-
livery of raw materials. Subject to this,
prospects of a better showing at next
balance look bright enough. What effect,
if any, the appearance of Swedish wall-
board on the Australian market will have
upon the co.’s future earnings remains to
be seen. All that can be said definitely
is that the co. is well equipped to meet
competition
The price of the ords., which ranged
between 60s. and 535. in the market dur-
ing 1949, stood at 58s. last week. The
immediate return at 58s. is 4 2 n
12i p.c. div. basis, with prospects o° n a
is 255. Id. in net tangibles. Cover
Brisbane Permanent Building
Dividends and To Ra_
A« s „ Pr. St. Dividend Tax.
1942.. 45,297 5 p.c. = 37,500 7 fay „ £
1943.. 46,190 5 „ „ 37 500 s’fion 2G2 >357
1945.. 45,805 5 „ 37 500 |q?2
1946.. 45,780 5„ „ 37,500 8 280 9qa’ 3ll
From inner reserves, £37, 970 ’ U 290 .59 l
Reserves capitalised, £75 00n " „ 28 > 5C 1
SS:: IS? 6 o p ;r: Sg »
1949.. 54,886 7 52.500 }Jg gjg
To finance further expansion of th*
business, which consists mostly of
loans to owner-occupiers, with a dash
of general banking for flavor, this
(its full title is the Brisbane Permanent
Building and Banking Co., Ltd.) offered
those on the register at Feb. 27 250 000
new £1 ords. at par, one for three When
fully paid—the last ss. a share' is dZ
Jan. 31, 1951—the issue will raise mid
capital to £1,000,000, on which 7 pc wii
call for £70,000 (£15,114 more profit'than
was claimed last term), which does not
appear to be out of reach.
After exercising the rights to the new
issue and allowing for brokerage etc
the old shares at 28s. would cost 26s 2d’
net, giving the rights a theoretical value
of about 6s. The return at 265. is 5 3 p c
on a 7 p.c. div. basis. Including the new
issue, net tangible cover (book-value) is
255. 2d.
The co. was originally incorporated in
1874, and has never failed to pay an
annual div. since 1906. In the early and
troubled 1930’s it swallowed the Queens-
land Deposit Bank, and then part of the
assets of the suspended Federal as well.
Divs., which averaged a shade under
10 p.c. for the seven years to the close
of accounts in 1930, dropped to 4 p.c.
three years later, a point was added dur-
ing the last half of the 1935 term, and
the rate remained steady at 5 p.c. until
1946, when 75,000 £1 shares in City In-
vestments, Ltd., were distributed as a
special bonus, and a like amount of re-
serves were rubbed out. In 1947 and
1948 6 p.c. was paid, and a 1 p.c. bonus
was added last term, making 7 p.c. for the
year.
The sharp growth of £303,662 in ad-
vances last term reflects the expansion of
home-building activity in the northern
capital. The outlay was met mainly by a
reduction of £253,447 in liquids. There
was an addition of £75,781 to deposits:
, 1945. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Deposits,
etc. . . 2,0 2 9,502 2,055,4 8 6 2,113,998 2,189,779
Final div.. 18,750 26,250 22,500 30,000
Liquids .. 1,805,334 1,343,292 1,161,225 907,778
Adv a n c e s,
etc. . . 1,142,618 1,624,368 1,944,040 2,247,702
Other assets 70,126 81,7 5 0 8 8 35,540
Premiums . 62,4 8 5 3 7,2 2 5 37,225 37,225
When the books closed, liquids, which
include £100,104 (down £200,182) on
“special” account with the Common-
wealth Bank, amounted to 41.2 p.c. of
liabilities to the public as against 54.9 p.c.
a year earlier, and the co. was holding
435. sd. of the public’s money for every
pound of its own. It is a sound position,
which the introduction of fresh capital
will further strengthen.
The year’s gross earnings (£119,297)
increased by £13,955. Equally pleasing
was the tight hold kept by the manage-
ment upon controllable outgoings; exes.
(£35,370, up £943) took only 29.6 p c. of
gross as against 32.6 p.c. for the previous
term. But the tax bill (£29,041) was
£4487 heavier, leaving the net gam a
£8525. The £54,886 of profit was 7.3■ p.c-
on capital as against approximately a leve
6.1 p.c. for the preceding five years. O
shareholders’ funds (capital and re^
combined) the year’s profit was 5.4 P- •
When all the money on the new issl * e
in, shareholders’ funds will need to tu
in 5.5 p.c. to cover 7 p.c. on capital alo >
and there will be a quarter of a mllu „
of new money at work to help sw
earnings.


w« W m S r & ,,- COL i jISON > I>atent Attor -
/ust’nif 2 Colllns Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
r ,^r0SV-¥irj5g^
and
Reliable
d emonstraHnn ate r- tees ? nc * man ufacturers of this table
including ct!!' a so . Quote for all classes of minii
Call for a
mining machinery
explosives
motors and Ellison switch gear
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
10-1? p 6 atentees and Manufacturers,
.. arramatla Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Ihe Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A . MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Dueshury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager,
’Phone: B.W. 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States.
DITTIHER GOLD MINES LIMITED
(To be incorporated under the Companies Act, 1936, of the
State of New South Wales.)
In this advertisement the requirements of Section 137 of the Companies
Act, 1936, of the State of New South Wales, have not been fully complied with.
NOMINAL CAPITAL: £400,000
Divided into 3,200,000 Ordinary Shares at 2/6 each.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF AN ISSUE AT PAR
of 2,800.000 Ordinary Shares of 2/6 each; as follows:
800,000
2,000,000
400,000
3,200,000
Ordinary Shares are to issue as fully paid as part consideration
pursuant to the agreement referred to in the full prospectus.
Ordinary shares are now offered for public subscription,
payable 6d. per share application and allotment monies, and
the balance by a call of 2/ - following allotment.
Ordinary shares are held in Reserve.
£lOO,OOO
250,000
50,000
£400,000
DETAILS OF THE COMPANY
During the period 1936 to 1947 ore from
this mine was bagged and sent for treat-
ment as far afield as Port Kembla, N.S.W.
Notwithstanding this and war stoppages the
mine produced the phenomenal output of
52,000 ounces of gold, 300 tons of copper
and 30,000 ounces of silver. In 1947
production ceased to allow the installation
of a new and large treatment plant, power-
house, dams, buildings, etc.
The Company is capitalised at £350,000 in
shares of 2/6 each ; the mine is equipped
with a most modern diesel electric operated
treatment plant just completed, has net
tangible assets of £BOO,OOO and estimated
tax-free profit of £530,000 on the so far
developed ore reserves of 57,000 ounces.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION
The minimum amount to be raised by the issue of 2,000,000 shares for public subscription
is £250,000.
CALL ON SHARES
A call of 2/- per share is to be made immediately following Allotment.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
The Company will make application for official listing on the Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane in accordance with the regulations of the
Associated Stock Exchanges.
DIRECTORS
FELIX CYRIL SIGISMUND DITTMER (Chairman), Mine Owner and Medical Practitioner, Ballow
Chambers, Wickham Terrace, Brisbane.
ALEXANDER SYDNEY PHILLIPS SANGSTER, Company Director and Engineer (Wundedich,
Ltd.), 20 Florence Street, Strathfield.
GEORGE BEATTIE LEAN, Chartered Accountant (Aust.), 60 Hunter Street, Sydney.
SOLICITOR
JOHN G. PALMER, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS
ROBT. ATKINSON & CO., Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE
G. B. LEAN, B.Ec., Chartered Accountant (Aust.), 60 Hunter Street, Sydney.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE
GORDON D. WHARTON, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney (Member of the Sydney Stock Exchange).
ARTHUR L. LONG, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne (Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
W. J. COWELL, 17 Grenfell Street, Adelaide (Member of the Adelaide Stock Exchange).
J B & FRANK CHARLTON, 406 Queen Street, Brisbane (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange).
Applications will be received only on the forms of applications included with the full prospectus of
the Company, which are available from Members of Recognised Stock Exchanges.
The whole of the above issue has been underwritten by Gordon D. Wharton, Member of the
Sydney Stock Exchange.
H. B. Dlcßj
June, T, 7‘ L
jja ri as as
SS:: S I aS 5:«
1944 •• 17 M 2 6 8 IM°° 10 ’ 64 !?
1945 .. V’ 5 L g g 14,400 11,415
1946 •• If’lf! g 8 14,400 14,172
Wages subsidy, 194 g u4OO 20,591
1 948 •• iq 247 6 9 15,900 23,938
deducting goodwill. £27,000.
The founder and managing-
director of this successfu 23-
vear-old manufacturer of terry-
cloth and surgical gauze, etc.,H.
B Dickie, died last year. The
board doesn’t intend to appoint a
successor at the moment, but to
leave responsibility for top
management to two senior execu-
tives, J. G. Hughson and H. J.
Carter, who are in charge of the
spinning and weaving sections of
the business respectively, and
who have been appointed alter-
nate directors. .
The public became interested
in 1935, when old shareholders
got a one-for-four bonus issue,
some fresh cash-paid capital was
gathered and the scrip listed. The
co.’s history since has been one
of steady progress and consoli-
dation, assisted by war and post-
war conditions, which restricted
competition from abroad and
stimulated expansion of the local
market, in which demand has
thus far continued to run ahead
of production. And a lot of
attention was given to quality,
one of the factors essential to
holding the market. Another
important factor in this respect
is price, which depends primarily
upon the level of costs, which
are still rising. Plant, to which
substantial additions were made
in 1940, has not been able to
work to capacity during the last
decade, owing to shortages of
labor (especially skilled workers)
and yarns. To help solve the
problem the board has adopted
a home-building programme and
sponsorship of skilled workers
from Britain. To date about
£ll,OOO has been spent on pro-
viding houses for employees,
and “the lowest level of produc-
tion due to lack of labor has
been passed,” the chairman says.
There was a marked increase
in output and sales toward the
close of last accounts, and
further improvement is expected
during the current term. The
extra £1793 of profit shown last
term came from savings in
allowances for taxation (£15,396,
down £1454) and depreciation
(£14,415, down £855). The
£19,247 of profit claimed was
enough to pay the pref. div.
'(£2400) and show 11.9 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 10, 9.8,
B‘s and 10.1 p.c. back to 1945.
A point was added to the div.,
which had beep steady at 8 p.c.
for the preceding seven years.
Finances are comfortable:
Pair , , 1947 - 1948. 1949.
raid capital. £190,000 £190,000 £190,000
Creditors .. 15,120 10,978 14,515
16,700 16,850 15,396
Staff fund.. - _ ’ 503
PW°H •• 79,905 77,890 86,610
W’ ® tC- ' 4 2>773 29,800 21,985
SSL :• 75,114 94,044 95,118
Cash t Ctc ’ 32 ’ 945 29,712 35,359
Z™’ etc. .. 12,455 12,939 13,980
Ihe year’s net addition to free-
holds (up £8720) was chiefly on
account of the home-building
P r °ject. And there was an im-
provement of £5176 in the more-
°r-less liquid surplus (£114,043).
factor favorable to
the current year’s earnings is
that most of the co.’s forward
cotton requirements were bought
before devaluation of sterling in
September last. Yet another
item that attracts attention is the
allowance for depreciation. On
the basis of last year’s figure,
plant, etc., would disappear from
the books in a couple of years.
But before the board decides to
lighten the charge in this respect,
fixed assets are to be revalued
on the basis of current replace-
ment cost, which is sound pro-
cedure from the viewpoint of
financial administration.
The market expresses its faith
in continued success of the
undertaking by pricing the ords.
at 41s, (40s. a year ago), giving
a return of 4.1 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
div. basis. The prefs. at 265. 6d.
yield 4.5 p.c. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is £5 6s. lid. prefs.
and 235. 2d. ords.
Great Western Consolidated N.L.
This big offshoot of Western
Mining Corp. has lost no time
in getting to work on its large
construction programme at
Bullfinch (W.A.). From the
near-by Copperhead leases the
bulk of the co.’s early ore will
be drawn, and this locality will
be the centre of activities for
the mining and treatment of
2,000,000-odd tons ore, expected
to average 4.7dwt., from a line
of leases covering two mineral-
ised ore channels, striking a little
west of north from Southern
Cross.
Some £341,000 is to be spent
on town-site buildings, including
erection of 240 married men’s
quarters at a cost of £240,000
and senior and junior staff
houses at a cost of £51,000. An.
amenities centre and hospital are
also to be put up at a cost of
£lO,OOO each. Outlay on plant
figures at £60,000-odd and on
mill and powerhouse buildings
at £14,500 and £ll,BOO respec-
tively.
The co. has an issued capital
of £1,768,000 (in 10s. shares), of
which £568,000 has been paid
or credited as paid, leaving
£1,200,000 (the remaining Bs. on
each of the 3,000,000 shares re-
cently offered for public sub-
scription by the parent) to come.
The uncalled balance is to be
asked for as to 3s. a share by
June 30 next, and the remaining
ss. within 12 months after that.
A three-year prospecting and
development campaign disclosed
ore as follows:
f —‘Proved— ■, < —Probable—,
Tons. Tons.
’OOO. dwt. ’OOO. dwt.
Underground . . 500 5.5 800 5.5
Opencut . . 790 3.4 —•—
Total.. ..1,290 4.2 800 5.5
The claim that “it is expected
that the ore-body will continue
indefinitely in depth beyond the
limits already tested” sounds
like that of a hard-boiled opti-
mist. ' The ore-shoots in this
locality have a reputation for
fading out in value at depth, but
recent drilling and development
suggest that they have a better
prospect of living down than
was previously supposed. Mil-
ling is expected to begin 21 to
three years hence, and to reach
full-scale throughput (400,000
tons p.a.) about six months after
that.
With things as they are
costs are put at 17s. a ton open-
cut and 375. a ton underground.
A rise of 2s. 6d. a week in the
basic wage would reduce the
profit by approximately 1 p.c.,
and a fall of £AI per ounce in
the realised price of gold would
reduce profit by nearly 12 p.c.
First ore to be handled will
come from opencuts. On the
basis of, say, a 200,000-ton
throughput for the first year, an
82 p.c. recovery and with costs
at 17s. a ton the profit would
be about £270,000, or 22.5 p.c.
on issued capital.
Although the 3,000,000 25.-
paids offered by W.M.C. were
all taken, the market for the
scrip opened at a discount of 25
p.c. on the issue price, and has
not recovered since. Anticipat-
ing a flood of applications for
the stock, many genuine inves-
tors are said to have applied
for, and received, more shares
than they could conveniently
carry, and have thus found
themselves in the position of
“forced stags.”
“Yow”: Old-time goldminer
Walter Hunt claims the Gulf
country is still rich in gold. He
recently brought two sugar-bags
of specimens into Georgetown
(N.Q.) from his Lucky Hit lease,
about 30 miles out. The speci-
mens show free gold, and some
are very rich. The reef is from
3in. to 7in. wide at a depth of
2ft, Dirt washed down from
the reef by rains is returning
Bdwt. Hunt claims his discovery
is the richest in the history of
Peninsula mining, and he is
erecting a roller mill to handle
some of the dirt and ore from
the reef. Samples have been sent
south for.assay. At Amelia Vale
station, 30 miles from Proser-
pine, Claude Pardon and a
partner are winning good ore
showing free gold, estimated to
go Boz. to the ton, from their
Evening Mist show. An underlie
shaft has been sunk to a depth of
49ft., and a 10ft. winze at the
end of a 30ft. drive has
bottomed on a 9in. wide reef of
brown honeycombed stone.


.
mmm
m
mm
•A‘.\*>.*.<*X»X*,‘. •-•.<
If your car ran on eight tyres instead of four
and you drove 24 hours a day for 4 years you
wouldn’t pile up as much tyre mileage as Good-
year drivers have in*, testing Super-Cushion Tyres.
In over 8,000,000 miles of test driving they have
proved this bigger, softer tyre gives more mileage
than conventional tyres, and far more comfort.
Super-Cushions will fit your present wheels, so,
see your Goodyear Dealer.
EVERYTHING A TYRE CAN DO
cy MpeipcuiAien
DOES BETTER!
Here's how Super-Cushions out-
perform conventional tyres;
Softer, Smoother. Safer Ride . . .
Quicker Stops , . , Greater Traction
Easier Steering ... Less Driving Fatigue
Better Looking . . . Fewer Rattles and
Car Repairs ... More Car Economy
all this and GREATER
MILEAGE. TOO!
MORE PEOPLE,
THE WORLD OVER,
5L.3
Have you looked over
your will lately?
IF you have not revised your Will to meet
to-day’s conditions, the consequences may
be serious for someone who depends on
you. Your responsibility to that someone
is too important to justify delaying until
some “to-morrow” that may never come.
Why not have a con-
fidential talk with one
of our Senior Officers
on the subject of the
appointment of the
Company as your
Executor and Trustee
—alone or jointly with
a relative or friend.
He will help you to
provide for the efficient
and economical settle-
ment of your Estate,
also for its efficient
management thereafter.
The final step of having
your Solicitor re-draw
your Will, should then
be a simple matter.
If you prefer , send
first, for a copy of the
booklet “Your Execu-
tor and Trustee ”. It
explains the services
offered by the Company
—and the charges.
M
ft
/ DIRECTORS;
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.
(Chairman);
E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS:
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT;
D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. a. ARMYTAGE, Manager
•
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68,000,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER 09
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, E C.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT VAGGA WAGGA. TAMWORTH and ORANGE
Business. Rollery. etc.
Revaluation and Havana
Senator Armstrong, who was
Minister for Supply and De-
velopment in the Chifley Gov-
ernment, is, like the Collins
House group headed by Walter
Massy-Greene, opposed to re-
valuation of the Australian
pound. A difference, how-
ever, is that Senator Armstrong
is a little less logical than
Massy-Greene ; he said devalua-
tion would cause “inflation” as
well as a loss of confidence in
the Australian economy. (His
colleague in the Representatives,
Mr. Ward, takes the view that
it would cause “deflation.”)
And Armstrong suggested that
the chief interests recommending
revaluation were speculators
who had transferred £lOO mil-
lion of “hot” money to this
country to make a 25 p.c. profit
on it if the rate on London re-
turned to par, and newspapers,
which would save 20 p.c. on the
cost of imported newsprint.
The president of the N. S.
Wales Chamber of Manufac-
tures, Mr. Webster, is decidedly
opposed to revaluation. Latham
Withall, director of the Associ-
ated Chambers of Manufactures
at Canberra, is more broad-
minded. In » his “Canberra
Letter” of February 25 he says:
The echoes of the September 19
general devaluation are still being
heard. It was obvious at the time
that monetary adjustments so far-
reaching could not fail to resound
throughout the world. Now, months
later, the full consequences of that
tremendous financial operation have
still to fie understood, and some,
indeed, have still to be manifested —
for example, the full effect on living
costs in Australia.
While it is quite apparent, as Mr.
Menzies has said, that the Common-
wealth Government has no intention
of engaging in upvaluation, it is a
good and proper thing that the pos-
sibility of such a thing coming about
should be the subject of analysis by
Australian producers generally, and
in this context it must be realised
that there is quite a body of tech-
nical opinion that believes the United
Kingdom may later in the year
further devalue the £ sterling to
something like parity with Australian
currency.
Mr. J. H. McDonald, speaking on
behalf of the Metal Trades Employers
in Sydney, has declared that the
engineering and metal industries are
greatly concerned at the possibility
of the Australian pound coming into
parity with sterling. He points out
that these industries already are most
vulnerable from oversea competition,
and went on to say that, on account
of exchange, tariff protection had not
been granted to many new industries
established in the last decade. On
the other hand the whole Customs
tariff had been lowered because of
the exchange factor and could not
be raised because of the Geneva
tariff agreement.
[The Chifley Government repealed
the exchange adjustment provision of
the Customs tariff during 1948, thus
greatly aggravating the situation to
which Mr. McDonald refers. —L.W.J
Thousands of articles produced
today have little or no protection
whatever against growing imports
other than the exchange rates. At
present our industries, by reason of
the exchange position, were able to
absorb thousands of migrants without
affecting the prospects of Australian
workmen. Any upvaluation of Aus-
tralian currency would drastically
affect migrant absorption.
tylr. McDonald concluded by point-
ing out that: “The shorter working
hours and the longer holidays enjoyed
by Australian workmen made the
continuation of the present exchange
margins with sterling an imperative
necessity.”
Some consideration was given to
this subject at the annual convention
of the Associated Chambers in Perth
in November-December, and the fol-
lowing resolution was adopted for
transmission to the Federal Govern-
ment: —
“In view of the danger to Aus-
tralian manufacturing industry which
could result from any appreciation in
the exchange value of the Australian
pound, thereby lowering the effective
tariff protection, this annual meeting
of the Associated Chambers of
Manufactures of Australia asks the
Commonwealth Government to en-
sure the provisions of adequate com-
pensating protection to manufacturing
, industries as an essential prerequisite
fto any alteration in the present rate
of exchange.”
In the same letter Mr. Withall
says, concerning the Havana
Charter and the Geneva Agree-
ment —each of which has a
bearing on the protection avail-
able to Empire industries;
The bulletin of the Empire Indus-
tries Association of London says in
its March issue that the Washington
loan of 1945 was granted on condi-
tion that Great Britain favorably con-
sidered certain proposals for the
conduct of international trade. These
proposals, drawn up by the U.S.A.,
included a scheme for the control of
trade by an International Trade ,
Organisation (1.T.0.), and were finally /
embodied in what is now known as/
the Havana Charter.
The British Government accepted I
the conditions and rushed everything!
through Parliament without proper!
discussion. 1
The scheme was discussed at
various international conferences and
finally signed at Havana in March, i
1948. It has not been ratified and |
consequently is not in force, but — I
All its provisions except that estab-
lishing the 1.T.0. have been incor-
porated into what are known as the
Geneva Agreements.
The provisions of the Agreements
and the Charter include;
(i) “Non - discrimination,” which
lays down that no advantage
in Customs duties may be given
to one country over another.
The iniquitous arrangement
has been made that the countries
of the British Commonwealth
must treat one another on the
same basis as foreign countries.
(ii) Existing Empire preferences
might be considered valid, but
negotiations must be started
for their elimination.
(iii) No increase in existing prefer-
ences may be made.
(iv) No new preference may be
instituted.
This is a blow aimed at the very
foundation of British trade.
It does away with the protected
market for United Kingdom goods in
the Dominions and colonies, and
deprives them of their prior entry
here.
The Geneva Agreements completely
isolate Great Britain from the
Dominions except in so far as exist-
ing preferences are concerned. They
severely restrict the economic measures
which may be taken within the
Empire and they will put alterations
in British Commonwealth and Empire
trade arrangements under the control
of the 1.T.0.
The Agreements have another year
to run, unless denounced (which can
now be done at sixty days’ notice)
or until superseded by the ratification
of the Havana Charter, which would
run for at least three years.
The Charter must never be ratified,
and the Geneva Agreements must be
got rid of at the earliest possible
moment, or the whole foundation of
our livelihood will be destroyed.
One thing the Menzies Gov-
ernment needs to look into is
the extent to which the Queens-
land sugar-growing industry has
been endangered by the Havana
Charter. Dr. Evatt and Mr.
Dedman, while in office, were
in the habit of making good
international fellows of them-
selves.
Price-control
While N.Z. business and in-
dustry and an army of con-
sumers wait expectantly on the
sidelines, Maoriland’s new free-
enterprise Government isn’t
rushing its hurdles on the price
front. All that has happened so
far is that aggressively socialistic
price-control bureaucrats have
been much more subdued and
less dictatorial. The change
came overnight, as soon as they
realised Maorilanders were once
again their masters and they
couldn’t crack the socialistic
whip any more. This should be
the prelude to more tangible re-
sults, which might take time to
work out. P.M. Sid Holland, in
his first new-year statement on
the issue, said the whole question
of price-control was under re-
view by a sub-committee of
Cabinet, and Maorilanders would
have to wait a little while. With
peak prices for wool and pros-
perity flowing freely in other chan-
nels, too, they weren’t impatient.
The outlook generally seemed
on all fours with that forecast
by Professor D. B. Copland in
Australia —further rises in prices,
incomes and costs for a few
months, to swallow the latest
dose of inflation, then flattening-
out. In a Gallup poll, N.Z. busi-
ness would be likely to vote for
tapering-off price-controls as
goods increase, before handing
over* control to those sound
market governors —supply and
demand. For years past M.L.
manufacturers and traders have
been fighting a rearguard action
against mounting costs, and
latest profits show they’ve been
losing ground at key points. It’s
not just a matter of holding divs.
at late ruling rates ; there’s a lot
of leeway to make up in plant-
modernisation and expansion—
hangover from the war years—
and rebuilding or extension of
premises. Every important in-
“Meet a pal o' mine.”
dustry has heavy spending to
face, when it can get going. In
hotels alone the bill will run into
millions, with every M.L. city
and sizeable town crying out for
more accommodation, after a
decade of control to give houses
a free run.
From the construction in-
dustry downwards there’s a long
list of pent-up demands that
could keep M.L. production
moving at the double for years
once the fetters are off,
Maorilanders screaming for
new cars see hold-ups on
assembly-lines while knocked
down cars unloaded from shins
are left in packing-cases for
months. Industry has plenty 0 f
headaches, with staff bottlenecks
and heavy turnover of Sor
from factory to factory, which
interfere with decent perform-
ance and stand in the way of
real progress,
P.M. Holland’s party, before
it became the Government, said
“Price-control is but a subtle
form of Socialism. It encour-
ages and rewards inefficiency,
penalises and discourages effi-
cient production, and denies
to the consumers the service,
quality and variety to which
they are entitled. Competi-
tion is a far more effective form
of profit-regulation than price-
control.” The next step is to
carry out the election pledge to
“dispense with price-control on
all goods in reasonable supply
and> by overtaking shortages,
bring control to an end,”


Insure with the
. AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
y ESTABLISHED 1872.
Office; Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Fund » ****** £500,000.
Tourist r * ne ’ 1 * re ant * Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
VictoP ND TRAVELLERS' BAGGAGE INSURED.
Q’land BranAL 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
" * Frim »ry Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Agents Fro “P t |y and Equitably Settled.
“■Bents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Concentration and Memory.
I have discovered an aim in
work. This has helped more than
anything else. Striving for per-
fection helps concentration and
memory. My observation has
greatly improved and I have be-
come more tolerant. —L. 1623,
Mining Engineer, 27 January,
1950.
Overcomes Fear.
I began the Pelman Course with
the idea of regaining confidence
in myself and overcoming my fear
of other people. I have made
much progress.'—B.343s, House-
wife, 6 December, 1949.
A /V/
*
rwfli
and
Pelmanism
develops;
OBSERVATION
SELF-C ONFIDEN CE
WILL-POWER
CONCENTRATION
DECISION
ORGANIZATION
JUDGMENT
SOCIAL EASE
INITIATIVE
and a
HOLDFAST
MEMORY
“This Applies To Me.”
The most helpful feature of the
Pelman Course is, generally speak-
ing, its personal nature. One can
say of every lesson: “This applies
to me.” The Course points dut
the way to the living of a fuller
life; it gives one a greater sense
of values. On the more practical
side, the diverting of the sub-
sidiary streams of the mental pro-
cesses into the main channel of
Purpose has been, and will con-
tinue to be, of incalculable
advantage.—R.l797, Schoolteacher,
31 January, 1960.
So Longer Shy.
Before I started this Course I
ised to be very reserved and too'
ihy to speak to anybody I didn’t
mow well. But I got over that
;arly in the Course and I have
10 trouble at all now. —J. 1062,
Stock Cutter, 9 February. 1950.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London. The In-
stitute has been established in
Melbourne for 43 years.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with the
approval of the Reserve Bank, has
made arrangements to meet the
financial restrictions and enable
residents of New Zealand to enrol
for the Pelman Course of Train-
ing without delay. Write in the
first instance to the Pelman In-
stitute, Melbourne.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Obainnan), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS.
O. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
&ss
cr .<?
J.
inr
IlCl*
JR
V&&
M 3
BY APPOINTMENT
GEN DISTILLERS
TO H.M, KINO GEORGE VL
Tanqueray Gordon and Co. Ltd.
&vcemt^ut/t4t&e
Gordons
Stands Supfamz
Pelmanism
* Scientific Training of Mind , Memory and Personality
The staff of the Telman Institute sets out with each pupil
to get at once to the core artd substance of his needs.
INTEREST—POWER
The Pelman Course increases interest-power.
Interest makes life purposeful and quickens the intelli-
gence. It discovers the real meaning, the energy and move-
ment, of what engages our minds and so keeps us alert and
responsive in any circumstances and in any company.
Interest - power may be the cause or the effect of other
qualities which Pelmanism sets out to develop in the indiv-
idual pupil. These qualities are;
Observation Self-Confidence Concentration
Will-Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Organisation Social Ease
and a Thoroughly Dependable Memory
The Exercises create good habits of mind and memory in place
of careless and slovenly ones, and train the conscious and sub-
conscious so that every faculty will contribute its share in making a
good performance of anything that has to be done.
There are one million Pelmanists of whom over 80,000
have enrolled with the Melbourne Branch
“The Efficient Mind” describes, in detail, the Pelman Course
and the full personal service which the Pelman Institute gives. Copies
are posted free. Call, write or telephone MB 2555.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of
Mind, Memory and Personality
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St), Melbourne.
1 To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
39C Hinders Dane, Melbourne.
Please send me t] post-free, a copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME
| ADDRESS
| 233
1
H “Lemon”: The first official
L .tfnn of Hohoro, Papua
Sre Australasian Petroleum
( wh drilling for oil), was made
Arthur Wade
when he examined the area on
Sf 0 f the Australian Gov-
rnment Wade’s findings were
£ Sed in an official report,
a P nd his opinion of the oil pros-
pects was sufficiently favorable
to allow him to locate a well-
ske and to make preparations
for immediate drilling.
As is often the case in Papua,
however, nothing was done
about it at the time, but W. G.
T ansford extended the original
survey three years later and pre-
pared a map covering both
Wade’s work and his own. This
map was printed in Bulletin No.
4 of the Territory of Papua,
1918, and the aspiring bush
geologist will do well to study
it as an example of the good
work which can be done under
bad bush conditions and with
limited equipment.
Following Langford’s survey,
another period of Papuan som-
nolence intervened, to be broken,
in April, 1920, by the arrival of
a geological party sent by the
Anglo-Persian Oil Co. With the
previously-won data in their
possession, this party was able
to make a careful examination
of the area, remapping it where
necessary, in about four months.
In August, 1920, they in-
formed their principals that they
condemned the area as a
potential oil-producer for the
following reasons: (1) Severely
faulted anticlinal structure; (2)
absence of actual oil seepages ;
(3) presence of “running” and
plastic mudstones; (4) steep dip
of the strata and (5) petroleum
content of the underlying strata
unknown.
Although at the time they
were given all these were valid
reasons for condemnation, only
(3) and (4) now carry much
weight.
Severe faulting, when good
sealing strata are also present,
is now known often to give rise
to structural traps and prolific
commercial oilfields, and the
absence of oil seepages above
such traps is sometimes an indi-
cation of the soundness of the
seal. Where the petroleum con-
tent of the underlying strata is
known to be commercially ade-
quate the oilfield will have been
long ere this developed by the
drill, wherever it may be situated.
Today, in possession of all
the Anglo-Persian Co.’s data,
and with the additional aids of
air - photography and expert
geophysical teams, the Austra-
lasian Petroleum Co. has re-
versed the earlier unfavorable
Hi u men * and i® drilling on the
Hohoro structure.
As was anticipated, the dril-
llnB has not been easy.
. The Present well was spudded-
m m March, 1949, and 18/fin.
casing was landed at 963 ft. in
?[' • Drilling then continued
J Q h ° ut exceptional incident to
in r?” w^lc fi depth was reached
t L. May - was then decided
. special pressure - drilling
'^ ent and chemicals for
essp!ff ht | ln C , the mud were
cS? lf the difficult drilling
ditions encountered were to
therJf VerC ° me ' Drilling was,
snecl? re ’ ? us P en ded until the
J 5 equipment had been in-
cal i and the re q uired chemi-
cals were on site.
werelT?’- 1949 ’ traces of oil
between Un 23n7fr the °? re taken
This rL l 3o7ft> . and 2 323 ft.
caused excitement in the
lay Press and on the Stock Ex-
change, but the A.P. Co. issued
a report (B. 7/ 9/ ’49) stating
that no special significance was
attached to this oil.
Drilling was again suspended
at this point as a precautionary
measure to await an ample
supply of barytes, which was re-
quired for weighting the mud.
Work was resumed in Novem-
ber, when a depth of 2585 ft.
was reached and the string of
13/|in. casing was cemented at
2529 ft., thus shutting off the
difficult “running” mudstones
which had been encountered
above that depth.
Below the shoe of this cas-
ing the success of the special
equipment used and of the
special technique adopted has
been proved beyond doubt. By
the end of January, 1950, a
depth of 3760 ft. had been
reached with no great difficulty,
and drilling since has progressed
satisfactorily, although trouble-
some zones of clays and mud-
stones, even more mobile than
those experienced higher in the
bore, have been encountered.
The A.P. Co. has thus con-
quered what has been a bug-
bear to drillers in Papua since
the earliest days of well-sinking
in that territory. The bugbear
still exists for any company
without experience, equipment
and staff comparable in efficiency
to those of the A.P. Co., which
now enjoys an enviable position
in the Papuan oil game.
Overfull Employment
New Zealand cos. waging an.
uphill battle against chronic lack
of staff in city factories have
been patting themselves on the
back for their post-war enter-
prise in opening up workrooms
in country towns.
Country lassies are steadier,
have more pride in their work,
and set a standard that outshines
the cities. Chairman Jim
Gentles, of Berlei (N.Z.), Ltd.,
one of Maoriland’s best indus-
trial div.-eamers, said in
February; “Acute shortage of
female staff is a major problem
in Auckland, where we are
unable to fill our manufacturing
benches. The wisdom of opening
provincial units is reflected in the
performance of all outside
plants, which are fully staffed
and maintain workmanship of a
very high ordSr.”
Berlei’s isn’t an isolated ex-
perience. Footwear and clothing
cos. have decentralised, too, with
a double benefit, in output and
profit.
N.Z. hasn’t made any head-
way against the ebbing labor tide
in the past year; instead, it has
slipped another step or two,
judging by National Employ-
ment Service figures, which show
30,130 jobs waiting to be filled
and no one to fill them, against
26,630 a year ago. It’s the
highest total in four years, and
runs into 4 p.c. of all jobs. That’s
where overfull employment, and
the 40-hour, five-day week have
led Maoriland. It was never
easier to get on a payroll theie.
Only two out of every three
employed Maorilanders stay in
jobs for more than a year now ;
the other quarter-million are
always on the lookout for new
places, often in other industries.
So there’s a lot of “green labor”
about, and manpower is as un-
stable as quicksand. To change
this, employment must be (1)
concentrated more in industries
that can earn their keep, (2) re-
inforced by transferring re-
dyndant departmental staffs to
jpbs where they’ll be producers
and not parasites, and (3)
augmented by bringing in new
blood from the other side of the
world to fill gaps in trained
ranks.
Cheese and Red Wine
For a country which produces
an abundance of good cheese
Australians eat surprisingly little
of it —only 6.11 b. a year per
person. Largest cheese-eaters in
the world are the Swiss, to whose
Gruyere cheese many people
concede the crown of supremacy.
They consume yearly 19.81 b. a
head.
Other countries with big
cheese consumption are Den-
mark 18.11 b. a head, Nether-
lands 10.81 b., France 10.61 b.,
Argentine 10.31 b. and Britain
101 b. The U.S.A. is down in our
class with only 6.91 b. a head.
Despite our low position as
cheese-eaters, our consumption
per head is actually approxi-
mately 50 p.c. greater than the
pre-war figure, which shows we
are developing a greater appre-
ciation of our cheeses.
Possibly this has been because
of the wider variety of cheeses
we now produce. In addition to
the well-known Cheddar, these
include such types as Gorgon-
zola, Lim burger, Camembert,
Gouda, Woerder, Edam, Gruyere
and Fetta.
The enjoyment of cheese is
often enhanced if it is accom-
panied by a glass or two of red
table wine, such as claret or bur-
gundy, and it is a source of great
interest to visitors from overseas
to sample our cheeses and wines
in combination. Generally they
are pleased with the qualities of
both.
There is no doubt that as a
finish to a meal, or even as the
main items for a light meal,
Australian cheeses with Aus-
tralian claret or burgundy are
most appetising, and deserve
much wider popularity in our
own country.


Women’s Letters
From MeSbourne
The South Yarra Regent Theatre was
filled for the premiere of the English film
“The Third Man,” proceeds of which
were donated to the Hoyt’s Theatres
Food for Britain Appeal, which has
already raised £BOOO. The Governor’s
wife, Lady Brooks, who on arrival was
presented with a sheaf of flowers from
the smallest page-boy this Letter has ever
seen, wore a graceful gown of black lace.
Her daughter Jeanette’s bouffant ''gown
was of white crepe. Also in the vice-regal
party were Patricia Edge, who later left in
Orontes for her Dublin home, and Col.
and Mrs. Spraggett. Mrs. Roy Mc-
Lellan’s short evening gown was of shot-
green taffeta. Mrs. David Bodycomb
wore a black crepe gown. Mrs. Geoffrey
Tolson’s white broderie Anglaise gown
had a portrait neckline. Elizabeth Lewis’s
hyacinth-blue gown had a gold chain belt.
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell hostessed a
luncheon in the Hotel Australia’s Maple-
room at which she had two guests-of-
honor: Mrs. W. B. Edwards, secretary of
the Royal Empire Society’s Women’s
Group, and Mrs. Louis Green, who has
worked with her hostess on many com-
mittees. Both left in the Himalaya for
England. Mrs. Wallace Mitchell wore a
nut-brown tailored frock and small
matching cap, and Mrs. Edwards a simple
black frock and a hat of turquoise-blue
felt, trimmed with black feathers. Mrs.
Green’s black-and-white-striped taffeta
hat was worn with a smart black jacket-
suit. Among the guests were Mrs. Claude
Couchman, in a black - and - white -
patterned frock worn under a lightweight
black wool coat; Mrs. Archie Michaelis,
who wore a white rough straw hat with a
navy - and - white - spotted frock ; Mrs.
Kingsley Norris, who wore with her light-
blue-and-white-spotted frock a natural
straw hat wreathed with gay field-
flowers ; Stella Palfrey also chose spots ;
hers were green-and-white, and a crown
of similar material highlighted her wide-
brimmed white straw hat. Linda Byron
Moore’s floral dress was worn with a
matching coat, and her hat was of lighter
blue straw. Mrs. H. Shepherd contrasted
her floral frock with a white hat.
The women of this city adore Sydney
hats. This is no reflection on Melbourne
milliners, but there is always the desire
for the apple that grows over a neighbor’s
fence, and this is perhaps the reason why
Anne Collins and Henriette la Motte have
had such successful showings in their
suites at Menzies Hotel. The hats, essen-
tially feminine, are mostly small head-
hugging types, planned for comfortable
wear with coats designed with the new
high-and-wide collar; they are made of
velours, fur-felts and soft satins, Anne
Collins introduces new shades. Her
timber-brown velour has a black braid
trimming on the small brim, and she
shows the new “scissors” brim in smoke-
screen-grey velour. Silver birch is an-
other of her fascinating shades. Ocelot
is allied with black velvet, and a black
Persian-lamb cap is finished with “devils’
horns.” Lemon-sour, a lovely pale shade,
is used to make a little cap with a long
black tassel and a back-draped pointed
crown. Djor-blue is another shade
featured in a hat fashioned with a high
wing and a black-drenched feather fol-
lowing the line. Veiling, beads, pearls
and sequins are used by Anne Collins
and La Motte to tissy up little cocktail-
and theatre-hats.
In both collections, feathers fly very
high. Being French, La Motte follows the
fashion of naming each model. A few
samples; “Adventure,” a black velvet cap
with tamarisk-pink bead tassels; “Dou-
cette,” a cloche of palest pink, stabbed
with a navy-blue feather; “Privilege,” a
soft pink melusine model with a beaded
flower and leaves at the end of one of the
“follow-me-lad” ribbons; “Five-o’clock”
is a sea-foam green beret-type cloche
with tiny clusters of beads dotted all
over it and with heavy clusters of beads
m purls over each ear.
There s nothing like a fashion' show to
raise money. The committee of the
ntzroy Free Kindergarten will receive
the proceeds from that staged in the
l? ve Jy garden of Mrs. J. Scott-Scott’s
Yarra home. The green lawns,
un their overhanging prunus trees and
the rockery with stone steps leading up to
, made an ideal setting for the manne-
quins whilst a full moon and floodlights
entered into competition to provide the
lighting system. Mrs. Harold Holt, from
whose creative mind came the fashions,
also oid a splendid job as commentator.
Her ballerina frock was of champagne-
tinted net over taffeta, and her small
matching hat was trimmed with walnuts
and sequins. The hostess wore a picture-
hat of Leghorn with her pastel-patterned
French crepe frock. Mrs. Russell Grim-
wade added to her black faille cocktail
frock, which had wide white grosgrain
lapels, a wide-brimmed black hat. A tiny
cocktail hat in lilac brocade trimmed with
match| rhinestones and pea rl em-
broidery set off Lady Snow’s black coin-
spotted faille frock. Mrs. Peter Sawyer,
svho was ticket-secretary, allied a grey-
and-whi.e-spot.ed frock and a large black
straw p.cture-hat.
Mrs. Dick Willis, whose Christian Dior
model featured white pique revers to the
shawl collar and cuffs to the bracelet-
length sleeves, was another helper; her
hat was large and of black straw. Visitors
from U.S.A. were Mr. and Mrs. Harvey
Williams, she in a suit of heavy black
faille and a black French velour hat
finished with an upstanding black osprey,
Mrs. Dudley Loughlin wore an outsize in
cartwheel black tulle hats with her black
ensemble. Mrs. Leo Curtis’s pearl-grey
taffeta frock had revers clustered with
pearls and sequins. A large black tulle
hat and a black French crepe frock were
the choice of Mrs. Keith Home. Among
the lovely mannequins who wore gowns
designed mostly for cocktails and evening
were Mesdames Jean Paterson, Geoff
Grimwade, lan Potter and Tim Joshua,
and Betty Jackson and Plum Rutherford,
The hats worn in the parade were de-
signed and made in Tommy Harrison’s
salon.
Sharn Adriana Yohanna, second
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Pauw,
of Den Helder, Holland, exchanged vows
at St. Patrick’s Cathedral with Hugh
Patrick, younger son of Mrs. H. P. Mac-
Manus, and the late Mr. MacManus. The
bride, who during the war years made her
home with Mr. and Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell, wore a white satin gown which
had a wide lace front panel, with the satin
falling back into a train. The bodice
featured a deep square neckline outlined
with a fold of satin, and had long, tight-
fitting sleeves. The full-length tulle em-
broidered veil was held in place with
orange blossoms, and she carried a
bouquet of gardenias, w’ater-lilies and
tree lily-of-the-valley. The ’groom’s three
nieces—-Pauline, Marie and Pat Ham-
brook—attended the bride. Their gowns
were of lily-of-the-valley-green-spotted
net over taffeta, the skirts bouffant, the
tight-fitting bodices having portrait neck-
lines and puff sleeves ; they also wore
small matching net-and-taffeta skull-caffe,
and their bouquets were of pink water-
lilies and tree lily-of-the-valley. Best man
was Charles Hicks and ’groomsman was
Rudolph Stynes. Mr. and Mrs. Austin
Hambrook deputised for the bride’s
parents at a reception held at the Wool
Exchange Hotel. Broothorn photo.
Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife of the
V.A.T.C. chairman, entertained at
luncheon at the Caulfield meeting in a
small pointed bonnet of natural straw
and a sage-green frock. Among her
guests were the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S.
Disney, whose cloche hat of shot-green-
and-bronze taffeta with a tuft of dark-
brown plumage topped a frock and
matching short jacket of lichen-green
crepe; Mrs. A. H. Dennett, in a smart
blapk ensemble; Mrs. Alec Hunter, her
blue-and-white-patterned frock worn with
a delphinium-blue silk straw hat; the
Wales lady in powder-blue with a dark-
brown velour beret and brown acces-
sories ; Mrs. S. J. Fletcher, a navy gros-
grain coat covering her matching silk
frock, and Mrs. L. R. Buxton, the new
winged cuffs, petalled collar and large hip-
pockets making her navy-and-white-coin-
spotted silk frock notable. A black velvet
hat with wings of the same material set
off Mrs. W. K. Burnside’s banana-yellow
silk frock. Mrs. J. Crothers’s black silk
crepe frock had for company a wide
picture-hat upturned and swathed in an
ostrich plume. Mrs. Wilfred Howitt’s
tailored frock was of lime-yellow linen.
From Sydney
Last Monday Ernest Fisk, Australia’s
television knight, was guest-speaker at the
Royal Empire Society’s lunch at the
Trocadero. What do you think he talked
about? British television, of course. Sir
Ernest conducted research with Marconi,
and received the first wireless message
from England to Australia, pioneered
first broadcast from Australia to England,
beam-wireless Australia to England and
radio-telephone Australia to England. He
is a vice-president of the Royal Empire
Society (London) and past-president of
the New South Wales branch.
A few years ago a Sydney woman
wrote a play which she named “Halfway
to Paradise,” but now a Sydney artist
goes one better. She lives at Paradise.
The artist is Betty Miller, whose first
exhibition since her return from foreign
travel, and study in England, will
begin in the Grosvenor Galleries on
March 21. Mrs. G. W. Rutherford,
who will open the show, was Miss
Miller’s companion on her journey. It
was while staying at the Rutherford
station, Nyrang, in the Orange district,
that the artist held two small but quite
successful exhibitions at the Hotel
Canobolas. Paris and Amsterdam,
Switzerland, England and Scotland—
particularly in the autumn and winter
months—-the coloring of sky and land-
scape soft with snow and fog added
treasure to the painter’s store. During
the months of study at the Byam Shaw
school in Netting Hill Gate the Austra-
lian stayed with Mrs. Ffrench, a friend
of Grace Palotta, a former actress who
in her youth toured Australia. Betty
studied for six years at Julian Ashton’s
school before the war. Her exhibi-
tion will include many of the pictures
she painted overseas and some Aus-
tralian scenes.
For the sake of its old friends Lord
and Lady Wakehurst, Sydney would have
liked the chance to make more ado about
Vera Grenfell, Miss Grenfell is a cousin
of former N.S.W. Governor Lord
Wakehurst, and she has succeeded Mrs.
Walter Elliot as chairman of the
National Association of Girls and Mixed
Clubs in Great Britain. She is also
secretary for the Northcote Trust
founded in memory of former Governor-
General Lord Northcote. Under this
Trust fifty young migrants are brought
to Australia each year to become citizens
of the future. Miss Grenfell, who arrived
by Qantas Constellation last week, and
was the guest of her friend Mrs. Tenison
Wood at Kirribilli, has this week dashed
off to Melbourne. There she will be in
time to greet five young migrants she
saw aboard the Asturias before she left
England. During her few days’ stay Miss
Grenfell visited and spoke at child-wel-
fare centres, was guest at a few parties—
one of these was given by Dr. Grace
Cuthbert —and spoke to members of the
Council of Social Service of N.S.W. in
the Stawell Hall, Royal College of
Physicians, in Macquarie-street. Her
subject, of course, was Youth Work in
Great Britain.
The Institute of Journalists’ lunch today
will have for guest-speaker Jack Percival,
who recently completed a tour of Europe,
covering the Berlin air-lift. He was
a p.-0.-w. of the Japs at Manila from 1942
to 1945. Included in his adventurous life
were assignments as newspaper corres-
pondent with Kingsford Smith and P. G.
Taylor on their Tasman flights. He
produced and directed the first Kingsford
Smith film, “The Old Bus.” Guest-of-
honor at the lunch will be Alec Chis-
holm, a former president of the institute.
Another long roneoed list from
the Orient Company last week filled the
heart with envy if not uncharitableness.
Owners of all the names on that list ar P
by now bound in the Orontes for the
other side of the world. Among those
who held the right end of the tracked
farewell streamer last week were- th-
Killens; the Cecil Manions; Mrs p
Hunter Bowman of Skellatar station
Muswellbrook ; Dinah Fielding-Jones off
to join her mother, Mrs. Jennor i n
England ; the Pooles and the Johnstones
of Armidale; Mary Munro, sports
mistress of P.L.C, Pymble; and amon*
the wool wallahs, big-business and racet
horse rajahs is at least one novelist
Donald Weir, who has spent the last 12
months on Pacific islands.
The Australian Book Society’s speakers
at its two last lunches have held their
audiences as hypnotised as Franquin does
his Empire subjects. John Alden, the
former guest-of-honor, cast the spell of
Shakspeare over his listeners. John
whose love in life is producing
Shakspearian plays, seems to know the
whole 36 by heart. He knows where
the long lines come, so that a player
standing extreme right will have words
enough to waft him off extreme left. His
was a speech to remember.
Last Wednesday Wilfrid Thomas took
his fellow-lunchers a far, far way from
Elizabethan England. He took them on
a journey through Central Australia and
away to the North. In a way this was a
sentimental journey ; you could see that
Wilfrid’s heart was still with the boys and
girls, white and aborigine, of all ages
whom he met in his travels. Kathleen
Robinson of the Minerva was to have
been the guest-speaker, but she was still
suffering from an accident she met with
at the weekend, so a double round of
applause goes to Mr. Thomas. Novelist
Miles Franklin introduced the speaker
and chairman Ravel was the thanks-
giver. Mrs. Nourma Handford, who is
known as a writer of juvenile books,
sparkled along as secretary.
Manly Art Gallery celebrated the
twenty-sixth anniversary of its founda-
tion in the Art, Gallery, West Esplanade,
last Monday evening. The Mayor of
Manly (Alderman C. R. Scharkie) was in
the chair. The C.J., Mr. Justice Street,
was the speaker. Mrs. Harry Twigden
arranged a musical programme. Soloists
were Iris Walton and James Wilson.
Hazel McGilvray was accompanist.
Harold Spry concluded the evening with
a series of colored films.
The Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron at
Kirribilli is going to miss Mrs. A. M, R.
FitzHardinge when she sails with husband
and son Berkeley, in Strathmore, on the
seventeenth of this month. Mrs. Fitz-
Hardinge is a very decorative and active
member of the R.S.Y.S. Associates’ com-
mittee, and she and her husband are
well-knowns in the social life of the Point.
The family will tour France, Italy and
Switzerland by car, and will make a fly-
ing trip to Norway and Sweden.
Practically a whole university course
will be spread before all who go to the
University Settlement Fete on May 13.
You can vibrate in the Engineering
School, run a temperature in the Depart-
ment of Tropical Medicine. Geology and
zoology will reveal their top-drawer
secrets. You can listen to the carillon, a
concert by the University choir, stare at
films in the Wallace Theatre, and you
can then spend your all at the sweets,
books, flowers and other stalls. If there
is anything left, do the thing in a large-
hearted way and buy tea for yourself in
the Great Hall, Incidentally, _ the
S.U.D.S. are celebrating a diamond jubi-
lee. Daniele Yard’s “Princess in Tartary,
presented in the Union Hall last Mon-
day to mark the opening of Orientation
week, was the first dramatic sparkler for
Last year former head of the Mitchell
Library, Ida Leeson, went to Anse Vo o,
Noumea, on a librarian appointrnen
with the South Pacific Commission.
She went for six months, but it will
nine months or more before she re | u . rl V
to Sydney. She has done a grand jo
of classification during her stay. A
employed in commission work form
small colony of their own, and all d Ol »
are a sort of family affair. „
Recently Ida “gave the groom away
at the wedding of Sydney lawyer J
Ryan, now of' the commission, *
Ailsa Dickson. According to local custo
the groom is accompanied by the motn »
and the bride by the father, or uPP r
stand-ins. Dr. McMillan, America'
Economic Research member, tcted f
the bride. Australian Consul Barnet
Mrs. Barnett (now on their way to ua
were present at the Mairie—Town
to you. The Mayor, Henri Sautot, ny
performed this part of the ceremony,
was the Governor of the New H r
when France fell, and then becam
of the De Gaullists in »
he became Governor. The Britisn
sul was present at the ceremony
French champagne at the recepti


r.-fV
n
s*
A
Uith
TOLLEY’S
you’ve
in
a
the cupboard
doctor in the hous(
°ttle of Tolley s in the house is an invaluable
1 m an emergency. Since 1858, Tolley’s has
r ~n , , amous as a fine brandy and a pure,
enable stimulant. No home should be without it.
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
sdf
BRANDY
New famous for 90 years .
SOIJTH WALES distributors, tooth a
CO. LIMITED
■ T5T.8.12
EXECUTOR•TRUSTEE
*VUT
fa
*
tiiE
ATTORNEY
They Deserve
Full Protection
The hasty appointment of a private executor Is a mistake
that is still far too common. Who can tfuarafiteethat
will be capable of carrying out his duties efficient y
Poor judgement, inexperience, bad health, business /evens
or advancing years inevitably lead to faulty administration.
Since it is vital to look far ahead, you will be weU advi
to appoint Burns Philp Trust Co'mpany Limited as your
executor or trustee. This sensible decision protKß y<«
beneficiaries from avoidable errors in the administration
of your estate.
P„n details of the Company’s services are given in "Hands
That Never Leave the Wheel.” A complimentary copy of
this interesting booklet will be forwarded on request. If
Lou cmeTlall. a senior officer arid be readily aou.lui.ie
to discuss important matters with you •
DIRECTORS:
James Burn, Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton. FJ.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament
Head Office: 7 BRIDGE STREET, STONEY
TEL. BU 5901 BOX BP3A*iO
SUNDRY SHOWS
Alden's Shylock.
It is flattering to know that
reviews are at least read by
the subjects of them ; it is doubly
so to see some notice being
taken of them; and it is there-
fore even more highly satisfy-
ing to note the successful results
obtained by the Alden Shak-
soearian concern at the Inde-
pendent Theatre, North Sydney,
in following the suggestions
made on this page a month or
two ago. It was here suggested
then that the company was
tangled up in its curtains with
a consequent loss of speed in
production and that it could
well follow the example of the
Stratford players by dispensing
with curtains as far as possible
and using movable scenery, etc.
That has been done in the cifr-
rent production of “The Mer-
chant of Venice,” and the differ-
ence in the way of speed, sim-
plicity and continuity is remark-
able.
It is pleasant to be able to
return Mr. Alden the compliment
of such notice by reporting that
his “Merchant” is an admirable
production—still a little too
much accent on minor parts,
perhaps, but then that is rather
difficult to avoid in a triple-
barrelled melodrama like the
“Merchant”—nicely dressed by
Alistair Roberts and just as
nicely set by William Constable
with one scene which, with the
aid of a few drapes and the
minimum change of movable
furniture, ensures that the whole
piece is carried through with
that smooth simplicity which the
Stratford people showed is easily
possible and highly preferable
Shakspeare.
Mr. Alden’s Shylock, too, is
a beautiful piece of work —a
work of art, if you like. He
takes him not, as he is too often
taken, towering about the stage
as cruelty considerably toned
down—almost justified, in fact —
by dignity and tragedy, but as
something whining and vicious,
cringing and cunning at the same
time. One never felt that Alden
was using lines like
Still have 1 borne it with a patient
shrug;
For sufferance is the badge of all our
tribe:
and “Hath not a Jew eyes?”
etc., in an endeavor to raise
sympathy for his character or
to give it the elevation of
dramatic dignity. The impres-
sion was, rather —and a highly
satisfactory one to this com-
mentator’s way of thinking—
that, gamely, Alden used such
passages simply and only to
bring Shylock down to a human
being. Without them he is
simply a monster, not a Jew of
Malta certainly, but not re-
motely human; with them he
shows feeling, which at least
makes him partly human, and,
therefore, even more of a villain,
however melodramatic.
And that reading of Shylock
—to use what might be termed
his “saving graces,” and what are
commonly used as such, only as
devices to humanise him and
make him more repulsively
villainous —is, for an actor, a
fairly courageous one. Alden
seemed to take it, and, carrying
it off as well as he deserved,
certainly gained a better reward
than the silver casket offered.
Of the other players, all doing
fairly well without distinction,
Paul McNaughton’s Antonio
seems the most creditable per-
formance —a feeling stretch of
acting pitched on just the right
note so that it never rose or
fell from its rightful level in
the play. Muriel Steinbeck’s
Portia was set in the same steady
key when a little more variety—•
some more freely emotional
moments —would have colored it
to advantage. There seemed to
be a note of Cyril Ritchards
about Alan Bristowe’s Bassanio,
but that’s probably a fair enough
reading.
Dennis Glenny played the
Duke of Venice with more cer-
tain authority than he did the
Prince of Morocco. In the
latter role he never achieved the
dignity and character to justify
Portia’s “A gentle riddance,”
which Miss Steinbeck didn’t
seem to give him, anyway. The
Prince of Arragon was also
given rather a poor deal by
Adrian McLennan, who carica-
tured that unfortunate suitor
much more than he deserved.
Joan Boulken and Gordon Rudd
took Jessica and Lorenzo through
their gently romance very
tenderly most of the way, but,
unfortunately, turned the lovely
poetry on night into a weather
report.
Still, altogether a very good
“Merchant” and one which
couldn't fail to stand up well on
the substantial backbone Alden
himself gives iff The one point
which might be tidied up a little
is the point of Shylock’s knife,
which gets a little too close to
Antonio’s breast before Portia
cries “Tarry”—it seemed to this
commentator that even an
electric eye couldn’t have judged
the moment so finely and that
Portia, however certain her case,
would not have risked quite
such a pause and quarters quite
so close.
Helen Pennefather.
Helen Pennefather, whose
watercolors are at David Jones’s
Little Gallery, Sydney, is that
rarest of all creatures to be en-
countered at an art exhibition —
an artist.
You could not say from these
22 paintings how large her talent
is. Some of the landscapes, such
as “October in Ireland,” are
very slight; in some, such as
“A Corner of the Lake,” the
wash is opaque and fuzzy;
some, such as “Trees bn the
Nore,” where too much of the
paper has been left white and
harsh to make the highlights,
are ragged.
Yet enough remains, in “Lam-
beth Bridge,” “Irish Wild-
flowers,” “The Tangled Pool”
and “A Stream in Winter,” to
show the qualities that make
enduring work: technical dex-
terity, spontaneity of approach,
distinction of mind and, speak-
ing all through these pictures
of rivers and trees, not merely
a desire to paint clever pictures
but a genuine and deep love
for the countryside.
Miss Pennefather is an Aus-
tralian artist who has been
abroad for 20 years. The cata-
logue says that her paintings
have been bought by English
and Irish public galleries, have
been shown in Paris and London
and have been praised by Dr.
Rothenstein of the Tate Gallery
and M. Cassou of the Musee
d’Art Moderne. She is going
back to Paris.
The watercolors are not
painted in the attenuated style
of tinted drawings or inky
blotches characteristic of most
English landscapes that have
come to Australia in recent
years, but in the rich, full washes
that the leading Australian
watercolorists have practised
since Blamire Young. Combin-
ing a contemporary freshness and
vigor with this full-bodied tech-
nique, they are very much like
the paintings we get from John
Eldershaw, G. K. Townshend,
Margaret Coen and Frank Mc-
Namara. “Lambeth Bridge,”
warmer than a Townshend, re-
calls in its lovely soft luminous
grey some of Rah Fizelle’s
paintings of Edinburgh.
Some Sydney Samples.
“F.S.”: Of “Sydney Art
Today,” at the beautifully-lit
Stanley Coe Gallery in Bourke-
street, Melbourne, one critic said
that Sydney artists had made
themselwes independent of Euro-
pean art influences and were now
standing on their own feet. The
impression gained, rather, is that
some are standing on their own
heads and some are taking in
each other’s washing. In fact,
there is a marked tendency to
gravitate either towards Russell
Drysdale or William Dobell.
Dobell himself is the most in-
dividual of the Sydney artists—
that is to say, it is, his own ex-
perience he is describing, not
somebody else’s —but if his two
exhibits, “Study for a Nude”
and “The Primadonna in a Box,”
are representative of his recent
work, it shows what notoriety
can do for an artist. When he
was unknown and working in
the army ; he painted pictures
like “Billyboy.” Now he paints
the sissiest of prima donnas and
a nude that anybody could have
painted.
Russell Drysdale is also
suffering the penalty of suc-
cess and being told by the
critics that he is a great artist.
His “Street in Cairns,” with its
elongated figures in the fore-
ground and its unrealised build-
ings in the background, has no-
thing but its unusual forms to
differentiate it from the most
ordinary piece of commercial
painting. There is no quality
of observation in it any more
than there is in Sydney Nolan’s
“Central Australia” and
“Perished.” The rest are rela-
tively undistinguished,
* * * *
Hlinka de Tarczynska, going
abroad for further study, sang
to a well-filled Town Hall in
Melbourne for her farewell
recital. The programme she
essayed would have taxed the
matures! singer. . However, it
gave her the opportunity of
showing the versatility she has
displayed in opera with the
National Theatre and with the
Italian opera company during
their last season when she took
the place of an imported prima
donna. Her voice was fresh,
light and exceptionally clear, and
she showed a rare intelli'gence in
her approach to the various
moods of Hugo Wolf, Wagner,
Puccini and Mozart, and her
French, Polish, Austrian and
Hebridean folk-songs were very
delicately rendered.
"Madame Bovary.' 1
“M.G.” in disagreement:
One wonders what the Mel-
bourne daily-paper critics, who
unanimously condemned this
magnificent M.-G.-M. film at
the Metro on the grounds
that it waters down Flau-
bert’s novel, expected to see.
They must have misunderstood
the novel —or not read it—to
have come to such a false judg-
ment. In the first place the film
lives even without the novel, and
the condensation down to two
hours of action has been remark-
ably well done —far better than
in the case of any story of the
same sort since “Dodsworth.”
The novel is a long one —•
when Renoir was asked if he had
read it he said, “What —wade
through 900 pages to learn how
a chemist was cuckolded!”
The Madame Bovary of the
film is Jennifer Jones, a lovely
woman, which Madame Bovary
was, and a sensitive actress who
never once faults her feeling.
What she feels as an adventurous
woman longing for something a
bit more exciting than the routine
of a small French village and
what she thinks she ought to
feel as a respectable married
woman are admirably presented
with just the same detachment
as Flaubert displayed in his
novel. It was Flaubert’s detach-
ment which so irritated the offi-
cialdom of his time and caused
him to be indicted on the
strange charge of making im-
morality seem glamorous, and it
was probably the same detach-
ment on the film that irritated
the Melbourne critics.
One thing Jennifer Jones
brings out very clearly—it is her
good qualities which lead her
into temptation. Had Bovary
been handsome, distinguished, or
a bit of a Don Juan, or some-
thing, instead of being a simple,
gentle, loving, unambitious
country doctor desirous of a
quiet life, he would inevitably
have become the loved and she
the lover, since every marital
relationship ends up in that way
or becomes dead.
Madame Bovary becomes the
loved and hence feels all the
guilt and horror of the loved at
not being able to feel what she
thinks she ought to feel towards
her loving, but extremely unex-
citing, husband. Not feeling
what her tradition tells her she
should feel she feels herself to be
a monster and becomes
neurotic; and her disastrous
love affairs are as much neurotic
symptoms as a twitch or a habit
of counting lamp-posts. The
only way she can think to re-
solve her conflict is by poisoning
herself with arsenic, and this is
all admirably indicated in the
film, yet the Melbourne critics
thought she had been “toned
down.” What would they have
her do —commit a few murders?
Bovary, well done by Van
Heflin, manipulates the situa-
tion of the lover by trying to get
the interest of his wife back by
performing an operation he
knows nothing about and has
only read of in a medical journal
on the village cripple and makes
him a worse cripple than ever.
This is the only horrific detail in
the book that is left out —in the
film Bovary becomes conscience-
stricken and foregoes the opera-
tion and thus incurs his wife’s
contempt more than ever.
As Flaubert, James Mason
puts in a masterly performance.


staunch old barn, with the broad-axe
marks showing on the mountain-ash
slabs, and the mighty "beams. The barn
was built by Spanish’s father. Built for
eternity.
WHAT had begun as a youthful
fancy hardened, with the years, into
an obsession. That drop of the exotic
in his blood inflamed Spanish’s imagina-
tion, excused and justified many things in
his own eyes. His temper; his pride.
People no longer laughed with him, but
at him, behind his back. Yet there was
an indulgence behind the laughter—a
tacit agreement that rich men are entitled
to their eccentricities.
But his vanity, although often hidden,
was enormous. He spoke to Don about
taking a girl to a dance. “The Cassidy’s,
Don,” he said, in an unusual flow of
geniality. “You know, they’re all right
in their way—Dan Cassidy’s well off—
but you don’t want to get serious, like.
Doesn’t do, mixing blood. They’re
common stock.”
“Commoners, do you mean?” Don had
said politely. Spanish had no weapon
with which to parry irony, so he gave
Don a black look and walked away.
There was an edge to Don’s reply, for
Spanish was reaching a stage of secret
fantasy where he was beginning to believe
that the foreign woman who had linked
her fate with an Irish peasant was related
to royalty. Mixing blood was a bit
rich, Don thought, watching his father’s
indignant retreat. For the old man, be-
fore he put on flesh and piety, had sown
a royal crop of offspring in the district.
They were easy to recognise—dark and
lively-tempered—and Spanish never did
anything for them.
As a gesture, perhaps, to that 4 stormy
and prolific youth, the lady at Norman-
town —who probably had a nice grown-
up family, and a husband on the Shire
Council—slipped a florin into Alan’s
hand on parting. As they walked down
the street Don said curtly: “Drop it! ”
“What?” said Alan, outraged. Florins
didn’t come his way very often.
“Drop it!”
Startled, Alan obeyed. The silver disk
rolled swiftly away and Alan turned to
watch it. “But she gave it to me!” he
protested—too late, for the coin had
vanished.
Don wheeled and looked down at him,
his light-blue eyes cold under the % black
sweep of eyebrows that met in a few fine
bristling hairs. The rest of Don’s face
was lean and dark, giving the same im-
pression of restrained strength as did his
lean thirteen-stone body. A keen, hand-
some and attractive face, with a hint of
the saturnine in its still darkness. A bold
nose and a curved mouth and premature
deep lines running from the high cheek-
bones to the long jaw.
“How old are you?” Don demanded.
Alan told him, surprised and a little
hurt that Don didn’t know.
“Old enough to know better”—Don
was in a cold passion, hissing between
his level white teeth. “Taking money
from strangers. Strange women. Especi-
ally strange women. God knows,” Don
said softly, “there’s enough of them.
Well” —sharply, like a whip-stroke—
“you know now. Do it again and I’ll
take your hide off. That’s all!”
Alan walked beside him like a
chastened puppy, hanging his dark fringe.
Thinking; This is what Queensland does.
A terrible place that sends big brothers
mad.
OPPOSITE the rough stone of the
house Alan whistled softly between
his teeth, tapping his.leg with the wooden
handle of a fall-less greenhide whip. He
wondered if Don would take him for the
first leg of the trip to the mountains.
He could sleep at Murdoch’s and come
back next day. He had asked Don
already if he could go all the way.
“Ask Mother,” Don had said, and his
mother had said no, poor lamb, there
was time enough for that later. Sleeping
out and getting chills. And his father
had turned his head and given him a bale-
ful look. “When I was his age,” Spanish
said, with husky deliberation, “my father
sent me to Cooma to pick up a hundred
and three bullocks.”
Alan wasn’t as impressed as he might
have been by this infant feat, as he had
heard it before. Spanish’s age at the
time varied in the telling, but the number
of bullocks remained constant —one
hundred and three. And Spanish had
brought them all the way from Cooma,
with only a half-crazy old ex-convict
called Mad Mick to help him. Some-
times, too, it appeared that Spanish not
only brought the cattle down —practically
unaided, fbr Mad Mick was troubled by
ghosts who sometimes drove him into
the scrub, screaming—but had actually
bought them. An eye for cattle developed
at an extremely early age.
“You’re not coming—understand?”
Don said. Then, softening with one of
his rare smiles, “I’ll take you next year
if you behave yourself.”
Spanish shrugged and turned the knob
of the wireless, loosing a bedlam of news
and market reports that drove them out
of the room.
Alan stopped slapping his legs and
stared into space. He had an idea. If he
got up very early and caught the horses
perhaps Don would let him go. After
the first day he might make himself in-
dispensable.
Chiming in with his thoughts, Reg said:
“We’ll get a good early start on in the
morning, Mr. Corrigan,”
Mr, Corrigan not replying, Reg kicked
his blunt spurs against the concrete and
said: “Some.of them bullocks is a bit
fat. Reckon they’ll be tongueing before
they get to Black’s Hill.”
Spanish Corrigan inhaled, tapped a
grey nose of ash on to his dancing boot,
and ran a hand through his thick grey
hair. Spanish’s hands were long, with
untrimmed fingernails, and the brown
skin was slightly wrinkled, like leather
gloves. The little finger of the cigar-hand
poked out stiffly—not a deformity, but a
refinement.
Smoke puffed out in a cloud. “They
are a bit fat.”
THE sun was dropping below the hills,
red patches of bare earth standing up
in high relief against ridged shadows. A
flock of cockatoos flew over, a narrow
snowstorm, high above the brown thistles.
The tender evening light washed the
green quilt of lucerne beyond the red
roof of the woolshed, and the gum-trees
dropped quivering shadows into the still
lagoon.
Inside the white fence plum-trees
dripped yellow and red sweetness, and a
busy hen clucked and chuckled over the
fallen fruit. This was more than Shrewdy,
coiled nose-to-tail below the wooden
bench, could endure. Envious Shrewdy
darted over, a swift tawny arrow with a
sharp black nose, and sent the plump
matron squawking over the fence in a
flurry of black feathers. Shrewdy picked
up a burst plum as delicately as a gun-
dog, wrinkling her nose. She dropped it
in disgust and looked at Don sorrowfully.
Don threw out the dirty water, and hairy
Andy, the long-legged staghound, shrank
back, sniffing and offended. The black
greyhound pup was inspired to gallop
round the yard, faster and faster, skidding
in a circle, the lithe form doubling and
stretching, the padded feet pounding,
snake head held high. Shrewdy’s slanting,
sly, fierce eyes looked up at Don for an
opinion of this exhibition. She shot her
red tongue out, laughing.
“A good pup, that,” Reg said, watching
the greyhound. “She should make a good
’ua, eh, Mr. Corrigan?”
“She should,” Spanish said shortly.
“Her mother won the Waterloo Cup.”
A good pup, Reg thought. A pity for
it to be kept for chasing rabbits.
The young black bitch came bounding
over, prancing, ribs outlined and muscles
rippling under the silken hide, a classic
line sweeping from deep chest to tiny
waist. She pawed Spanish in friendly
fashion, and Spanish cuffed her narrow
head. So Shrewdy bit her severely, and
she made off, a black missile, yelping
mournfully.
DON slowly wiped his powerful, bull-
dogger’s hands on the side of his
trousers, his pale and intensely blue eyes
staring over the tops of the thistles.
For the fraction of time he stood there
like that lost, three pairs of eyes studied
him. Alans admiringly, with a faint
shadow of resentment; his father’s 3
Reg’s, critically, shrewdly, carefullV Z
they might measure up a valuable beast in
a pen. m
Don shook his head, a slight violent
tremor, and walked over to the pum
The pump was rusted, and had been fn
danger of repair for the last twenty vearc
Don fed it with the billy of water he had
ready, and let the water gush out till it
was cool. Then he pumped a mugful for
himself, and was lifting it to his lips
when Spanish said; “Here! Givn
that.” 6 me
Don stared at him sternly, the
aluminium mug poised. Then he slowly
passed it over. y
“Beautiful water,” Spanish said, drops
clinging to his chin. “Cold—just like
mountain water, Reg. Best water round
Toomalong.”
“Tea’s ready.” It was Mrs. Corrigan
a plump rosy woman with a- cheerful air
and a timid blue eye. She stood holding
the fly : proof door open, and behind her
peered Maisie, Old Bill’s daughter. Old
Bill milked the cows and ? took milk for
his family in lieu of wages, and at some
time or other most of his sons and
daughters did casual work for the Cor-
rigans. Maisie was casual; too casual to
get a job anywhere else.
“We’ll get an early start,”, Reg said,
swallowing a second cup of scalding black
tea. Don < was staring with disfavor at
the dripping hessian of the safe: thinking,
why the hell hasn’t the old man bought
a refrigerator—after all these years?
And then, looking at his mother, think-
ing, with a sudden compunction. I’ll buy
one myself. The reason he hadn’t thought
of it before, he supposed, was that the
smoke-blackened kitchen had always
looked the same. The safe ; the home-
cured ham hanging from the black hook
on the rafters; the big stove. A cosy
place in winter but a vile, hot place in
summer, although it was big enough for
three kitchens.
Alan was thinking; “I’ll take the
alarm-clock.”
Inside, in the dining-room, Spanish
was dining alone, a serviette tucked under
his chin. He rang the bell, and Maisie
went flying in to see what he wanted.
<< KA AD old Bill has let the night horse
* * I out of the yard,” Alan said, stand-
ing with the bridle over his arm, under the
stars. In his agitation he didn’t notice
that he said it aloud till the words came
ringing back, like a ghostly echo. Mad
old Bill . . . But perhaps it was he who
had forgotten to put the taffy pony in
last night, after Don telling him? ...
a fury of panic he kicked the sliprail
lying at his feet and swore “Bloody-
damn!” An early start, Reg said; they
would have to get the bullocks away
early, and it would be his fault if they
were late.
But the morning was still dark, and
chilly. There was rain beating on the
slate roof when he woke, to the maniac
jangling of the alarm-clock, but now it
had stopped. The tall grass near the
yards was soaking through his boots, the
wind brought the heavy scent of cattle, a
powerful, oddly stimulating odor
the two hundred and thirty dark bodies.
The tall thistles swayed in the wind,
and the thin starlight gleamed on P al p
points, like a forest of horns. But i
was really too dark to see.
The dogs tied up near the old wagon
began to bark, and Alan thought he he
a rattle of hoofs from the drive. }
would be Jim and Skeeter Adams n<ung
in from their lonely hut in the hills,
and Skeeter would be going wl |h , ,
cattle, and so would Stan. Alan lo
across at Stan’s hut, but could se
light. Reassured, he tramped towaro
horse-paddock. •
Three times he stalked a tall this * le e .
the darkness, thinking it was a « , ■
Then, a piece of luck, the shape un
bridle was a horse’s head. The .
philosophic head of Dandy, the age 8 .
gelding. Dandy seemed too surpn ca
demur when Alan slipped the bit l . lding
mouth, the top strap over his y
ears. Alan hoisted himself on t
bony back. The rest was easy. ,
Not so easy, perhaps, when a aS
shape that Alan presently idenm™ , Qg
his own cunning fat pony went c
down the dry creek-bed, an at
Creamy, the packhorse, fashed . see
Don’s chestnut mare. If D° n c
you, my fine fellow, he’d give y o - ng
for, Alan murmured. .They weres
over-the egg-shaped little hill, in e mer
sky pale behind them, trooping
in a bunch. Going quietly. yeS<
wind had blown the sleep out ot ms
So far so good. _ saddle
Alan had his saddle and Dons*
and bridle waiting by the sliprau * e>
saddled his pony and the chestn
being very careful with Don s
VARIOUS VERSE
PATTERN OF A CITY.
We do not know what moves the city s
wheels
Or who controls their moving;
The trains continue in their passages,
The indicators circle.
Women with the consciousness of time
Move round the city’s face,
Pace the pavement with determined haste
As regular as rhyme.
Traffic moves, insistent at the sign
Of blue Gods at the corner;
Bearded musicians with their women sit.
Intelligent, at wine.
The noise of builders beats above the
ground,
Scaffolds lean to the sky.
Ants crawl dolefully between the piles;
The clock hands move around.
Oblivious of their wares, the newsboys cry
At granite cornerstones;
Unseen, an eagle and an aeroplane
Disturb the quiet sky.
Time moves, men and women move, the
trains
Repeat predestined patterns.
We do not know what moves the city’s
wheels
Or who controls their moving.
N.S.W,
RUSSELL MCDONALD.
NUCLEAR PHYSICIST.
Wry-mouthed Adam, will your ashen
apple
canker posterity? Impotent Prospero,
cursed by the Caliban you made articu-
late,
shivering slave of your slave; what evil
itch
stirred you, invert Faust, to barter the
a’ges
for one crowded hour of inglorious death?
Glum with the insufficient sun, the un-
easing earth
you called a cosmic horror, the elemental
that grins in the lightning, mumbles in
the thunder-roll,
untied a timeless terror for Protean doom:
the incandescent, fatal flower of Nagasaki,
Bikini’s monstrous fungoid, poisoning
peace.
Recalled from the killing, shackled un-
surely in the stock-pile,
its lust slavers in secret, whets with the
waiting.
Riveted now on the rock, you feel the
vulture
pang at the heart, the heart, Prometheus.
N.S.W.
R.D. MURPHY.
EP1THALAM1UM.
What shall I sing to them when cockatoos
cry morning,
White on the ground like a frost, calling
And calling, while day at the window
staring
Finds them enibarrassed strangers talk-
ing?
Hard for them to jump from the slept-on
covering
Easily and naturally, glad hearts eagling
Sunward, because daylight knows loving
Is something nocturnal and not for re-
vealing.
Now they can see the factual sheets,
damning
With the evidence-in-court denting of the
pillows,
And their own nakedness: .the knowledge
of disarming
During the bitter, breathful night s atten-
tion
To doing. They had forgotten themselves,
save as fellows
For bed and now they need to be intro-
duced.
If I shout at the window will they re-
member their names?
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.
TWO LYRICS.
(I)
Long times ft come you’ll be turning
Corners and chancing suddenly upon me,
In scattered sun and shade, with unex-
pected
Eagerness and countenance awry,
Laughter and greeting commingling there,
Toss of yellow hair and disarming
Soft voice.
O long I’ll be standing
There where 1 paused unnoticed for the
moment
And took your warmth as a drowned man
takes the sun, >
Vaguely'and frantically at first, then, high
and dry,
Acknowledging and thankful for the need.
Long times I’ll be standing and amazed
At love so sudden and unrecognised.
(II)
The same old way, down lanes of spring,
through vales of autumn.
We have walked the same old way, so
late, so often;
So wearily in spring, expectantly in
autumn,
Because we knew the seasons had no call
to be kind or callous.
No cause at all or reason to exert in-
fluence upon us.
And we were wrong, and they imper-
sonal.
Loved, the tragedy of loving is not within
us
But without: the reel of spring, the jaded
rout
Of autumn.
Must we fall through branches,
Burst in blossom, go up in smoke?
Let us be still, not laughing or yveeping
at the joke.
O let us be still and loving.
n.s-.w.
VICTOR BRUCE.


„ , nth and the military saddle. Don
saddleC nsed a military saddle on the
ajway s used a so that she wou i dn ’t get
cheS TbaS Walking back to the house,
aS f ff b C he two horses, a black shape
leading the legs> sniffling and
snSnf It was Shrewdy ’ inveStlgatmg
her mastersho'-se'nder shadow of the
I t was da near i y bumped into the
hOU *’H Wndq“r?e“ of a tethered horse,
hummed hinaquart arrjved He
| SO oked m up and saw a yellow light wink-
I°g from the peaked black square of the
house.
t-n ON was standing in the doorway of
D of the kitchen, a cup of tea m his
, a “Hullo’” he said blankly.
h ”l ran in the horses, Don,” Alan said
.irklv “Sally’s outside, saddled. Can
I conie with you —as far as Black’s Hill?”
1 “A I right” Don turned to Skeeter
Adams, who was kneeling adjusting a
sour “See any sign of Stan'
‘Thought I heard him movm about,
volunteered Jim Adams, lounging against
the wall. They were stringy, horse-faced
young men, the Adams brothers, and good
cow cornin’, too?” Skeeter
said. „
“He can cook.
“He’s a of a cook.”
“Who said the cook’s a ?” Stan
said, poking his bald head round the
corner, grinning cheerfully.
“Who said the ’s a cook?”
- The time-honored repartee passed
lightly, part of the glamor of the morn-
ing. Alan had a warm, thrilling sensation
of having passed into the larger comrade-
ship of men.
Mrs. Corrigan came out in time to
exchange “Good-mornings” with Reg.
The mountain man was fresh and smil-
ing. He seemed to have grown larger
with the morning.
“Stove’s alight, Mother,” Don said.
“I’ll have breakfast ready in a jiffy,”
Mrs. Corrigan said, bustling. Alan filled
the teapot from the big black fountain.
“You up, too?” his mother said ; but
she didn’t sound surprised.
“I thought I’d go a bit of the way with
them,” Alan said, and his mother nodded,
laying the thick steaks on the stove-tops.
“Here, take this,” she said, handing him
the toaster. “That’s a good boy.”
DEHIND the dark thistles Alan could
' hear the reports of Reg’s whip, the
occasional bark of his woolly dogs. The
bullocks poured through the gates in a
chaotic black mass, black body shoulder-
ing thick body, their scent rising like mist
in the sweet morning air.
Alan sat on his pony, occasionally
smacking his whip on the ground, steer-
ing the flood of beef up the lane. Beside
him Ringer, the old sheepdog, barked and
barked. A hoarse bark, then a pause for
breath, then another. Ringer knew his
]°b. Jim and Skeeter were up the lane,
steadying the impatient lead, and Don
was turning the little knot of wild
youngsters in the extreme lead from the
road up the hill. Stan had gone ahead
with the horses.
Half-way up the long red hill the world
appeared, quite suddenly, etched n grey,
uon came cantering back on Sally, the
me chestnut mare, Shrewdy capering at
er hcHs. a wonderful time for Shrewdy,
■m unlimited heels to nip. Shrewdy was
creature of undivided loyalties and
' age affections. Don had picked her
P IT } Queensland, and she loved to bite ;
shnf + ad even hitten Spanish, as a bird-
“S t 0r u ear testified - And with Don,
j ncr * adored, her only way of show-
him . m gs was by playfully nipping
anr i’ lau ! n , ln , g on him with snarling mouth
dispm, j ? ose ‘ Attentions which Don
hepi n ged b y backward kicks of his
whartA 01 ]’ P ever wore s P urs —and hard
° f his open palm. The harder
But tbe § reater Shrewdy’s delight.
cowpr^* ll !. spoke to her sharply she
anvonp i° H l6 - ground > whining. And if
curled n C f G ai l a hand on her her lips
her fr ° m her shar P white teeth, and
ncr spad® eyes shot green sparks.
d 0« aS r la u rger than the average cattle-
gestion Jft-hnilt, with a strong sug-
She was tbe dl J ngo * n her color and gait.
bei ng moi£ n ° r rl? dox in her nnarkings,
and S sh?w S ° ld colored than mottled,
Alan e I et been kn °wn to bark.
Sally hie r, reC !u^ r a l mo st as much as
had hppn rot he. rs wonderful mare, and
friends with Usly tr ying to m ake
h’s offerinos her f ° r months - She gulped
« /&S raven °usly, with a per-
nev er follow B h°m, the t&U ’ but she WOuld
of the to!!!! 1 mare eame bounding out
as neafly as deet™ 5 ’ wheeled ’ and sto PP ad
something 1 of thl yer at manoeu vres, with
speed | * the i ame suggestion of sleek
thoroughbred £ ears old ’ out of a
and she had b X. an Arab sire >
eouutrv ü beC u bred in the mountain
y ‘ der hooves were hard, her
heart was stout, her legs were like steel
and her barrel was a reservoir of power.
Her mouth was soft, her gait was easy
and Don fed and groomed her. She was
a paragon among horses and an example
to her sex, and the only trouble Don
ever had with her was shoeing her. She
was always tearing the shoes off her front
feet.
And she had a horseman to suit her,
Alan thought, watching his brother’s lithe
body sway easily in the hard military
saddle, the stirrups long, legs moulded to
the shape of the horse, the rhythm of the
stride. Firm and easy.
“That’ll steady ’em,” Don said, placing
Sally between Reg’s cob and Alan’s fat
pony. “Just canter back, Alan, and see
if we lost any down the road. Take
Shrewdy.”
Take Shrewdy? But if Shrewdy didn’t
want to go? But Don gave her a look,
and a wave of the hand, and she followed
Pepper’s burry tail as meekly as any
ordinary dog. And there, sure enough,
under the honeycombed red bank of the
cutting, were four red bullocks who
raised innocent white faces when Alan
spoke to them, took in Pepper’s contours,
and went on grazing. “Ho —ho! ” shouted
Alan, banging his futile whip. But
Shrewdy dashed in behind them and
drove them up the hill smarting.
Oh for a horse like Don’s, a dog like
Shrewdy, even a whip with a fall! But
Pepper’s best gait was a rolling canter,
and he only wheeled when he felt like it;
as when you were trying to catch him.
And Shrewdy had gone back to Don,
wrinkling her nose.
“No trouble till we get to Black’s Hill,”
Reg said, flicking a lagging bullock.
“We’ve got fences each side, a straight
run.”
“We’ll go on to the road then, eh?”
Alan said, waking Pepper up with a slap
of the reins.
Reg nodded. “Save four miles this
way. Reckon you’ll come with us next
year?” He glanced down, blue-eyed,
amused. No longer the middle-aged
buffoon who drank tea and gossiped in
the kitchen, but a horseman. A man at
work.
“My oath. But not on Pepper,”
Reg was alert, his blue eyes wander-
ing. “When they settle down a
bit we’ll catch up Stan. You can take
the saddle off Pepper and put it on that
bay of Don’s.”
“Do you think he’d let me?”
“Why not?”
UP on the hump of the hill now, the
cattle swarming over it. Two
hundred and thirty red bullocks with
white faces. They would come back
from the mountains hard, and top off
beautifully on the river-flats.
The morning broke in full golden
splendor over the bullocks, over the red
hillside, the red dust. Below them Alan
could see the winding river, with its green
banks of willows, the poplar avenue
leading to the short white bridge and
below it, spurting silver, the leaping
creek. Vivid green of lucerne, brown of
thistles, and Spanishls toy-house, smoke
drifting from the chimney. A toy school-
house ahead of them, corrugated-iron
shining between the trees. Alan felt a
keen regret that the school holidays had
started, for they would go up the lane
past the schoolhouse. “Where are y’
goin’, Alan?” his peers would shout, and
he would respond with a wave of his
hand. But they would know where he
was going—to the mountains, with the
cattle.
Only he wasn’t going to the mountains.
He was only going as far as Black’s Hill.
Unless . . . With a shout, Alan threw
Pepper upon a knot of loitering bullocks,
and pursued them hotly. Reg’s dry voice
called him back. TTie red dust rose
thicker, and the sun beat down fiercely.
“Going to be a scorcher,” Reg said, slap-
ping at the flies.
On Don’s bay gelding, Alan felt a
different man. A man. He was so much
higher in the world, master of it; or
almost. For the bay, who had a will of
his own, almost unseated him several
times. But the thrill of feeling that bundle
of comely horseflesh and high spirits
under him was worth any discomfort;
even the discomfort of chafed flesh, which
he hardly liked to admit, even to himself.
The hot hours passed ip a dream of
dust, stiffness and cattle. It seemed to
Alan that they lived in a world of cattle,
had so lived for years, and would always
exist with the strong smell of cattle in
their nostrils, red, roan and black cattle
passing below their eyes, milling in circles,
scrambling through creeks, snorting at
nothing. Drifting on to their fate, in-
evitably, remorselessly, a plodding mass
with infinite variations. For individuals
came out of the mass. The frisky short-
tailed bullock, the two young larrikins
for ever locking horns —show-offs —and
the one with streaky-brown patches on
his white faice—a bom clown.
ALAN eased himself in the saddle, his
horizon bounded by his horse’s nod-
ding ears. Lulled by the rhythm of the
bay’s walk, the monotony of cattle. A
sleepy, hot day, of dust, flies and cattle. ?
“Well, here we are.” It was Don’s
voice in his ear and Alan looked up,
startled. He hadn’t seen Don beside him.
“Black’s Hill,” Don said, pointing
beyond the broad stream of red bodies to
the hill, rising dark and,wooded, like a
sugarloaf, on the far side of the creek.
The fence ran a few hundred yards from
the creek, and the leaders were cautiously
passing through the open gate.
“What time is it?” Alan asked.
“About noon.”
“Noon! ” He thought, he had been in
the saddle for days. A day, anyway.
A cruel day in which the sun wouldn’t
go to rest,
“When do we eat?”
“Soon. Let the bullocks settle down
here, and we’ll ride over to Murdoch’s.
See the bulls over there?”
Alan followed the pointing finger. The
bulls were glowing dots on the grassy hill-
side to the left of Black’s Hill. A fence
ran between. Don lightened the rein.
“Come on. We’ll turn them round to the
right—away from the fence,”
The bay and the chestnut cantered neck
and neck, shaking the sleepiness out of
Alan’s head. “Sh-r-ew-dy! ” The bul-
locks were turned down-creek and
Shrewdy came trotting back, wagging her
wicked head.
“When we come back,” Don explained,
letting Sally crop a mouthful of green
grass, “we’ll turn the cows into the bull-
paddock—-or leave the gate open, let ’em
run in the two paddocks. There’ll be
plenty of feed here then. We’ll bring the
bullocks straight in.”
The bullocks were splashing through
the clear water, stirring it up, drinking in
long, grateful draughts, stumbling on the
smooth stones. Don swung! his whip and
scattered them, thinning them out along
the lower creek. “They’ll be all right
here,” he said, and turned Sally’s head
up-stream, to drink in the unmuddied
water.
SALLY trod delicately, and stopped.
Don, who was standing up in the
stirrups, peering over the top of the bank
at the secondary flood of bullocks ad-
vancing through the sun-bleached grass,
turned his head and saw a bull rising out
of the brambles. A large, brawny, muddy
bull who stood with planted wide feet
and stared at them, small, balled eyes
peering from the curled rampart of a
broad, white forehead, wide horns sweep-
ing down.
“Well, I’ll be damned,” Don said
softly. “Look at him, the arrogant .
Isn’t he like the old man?”
Alan giggled. There was, indeed, a
fleeting resemblance. “Fence must be
down,” he said.
“Come on, boy,” Don said. “You’re
not coming to the mountains.” Sally
stepped forward, and the bay stepped
with her, crowding her slightly on the
narrow cattle-pad. Don swung his whip.
The bull backed away, kicked up mud,
and probed the damp soil with one long,
raking horn. He moaned softly, and
blinked up at Sally, then tried the other
horn.
This was quite enough for Shrewdy,
who flew at his face, snapping. Then,
while he was making bewildered thrusts
at nothing, she was behind him. But
instead of whirling, the bull came straight
forward, like a huge red rocket. The
bay swerved, bumping Sally, and the
bull hooked her as he went past. Almost
casually, but tearing a red gash in her
rump. Shrewdy clung to him, nipping
him shrewdly, and presently they heard
a tremendous splashing and bawling.
Sally slithered down the bank from the
impact of that glancing blow, and Don
was out of his saddle, knee-deep in water,
examining her with gentle fingers. The
mare was sweating freshly, and trembling.
“Come on, poor old girl, come on,” Don
coaxed, pulling the bridle. Sally rolled a
wild eye and took two steps, her hind-
quarters drooping pitifully.
Don splashed out of the water, raging.
“The ! The bloody great red !
Off that horse!” he commanded. Alan
slid off anxiously. “How is she?” he
said. “Ruined! Bloody well ruined.
But, by God, Til”- — He choked on his
words and sprang into the saddle with the
speed of passion, shook out his whip
and loosened the reins and sent the bay
up the trank like a bird.
A SCENE of considerable agitation met
Alan’s eye. Bullocks milling, bullocks
pouring up the bank from the creek to
meet the bullocks pouring in through the
gates. And darting in and out among
the boiling red mass he could see his
brother, his dark face distorted, plying
his whip like a fiend. Careless of the scat-
tered herd, careless of Reg’s startled
shout, and the Adams boys’ curses. It
was noon, and the cattle were tired. If
it had been early morning there would
have been a first-class stampede. But
Don was so lost in passion he would have
risked that.
Regscantered over.
“Just what the hell does that brother
of yours think he’s doin’?” he demanded.
“It’s a sort of private feud,” Alan said,
and pointed to Sally.
“Look at the mad cow!” Jim Adams
yelled, delighted. “By cripes, Don, y’r
old man’ll skin y’ if he sees y’ do that.”
“All them Corrigans are mad,” Skeeter
said. He raised his voice. “Quit it up,
Don. Y’ll have ’em scattered from hell
to breakfast.”
But Reg said, “He’s gettin’ too close to
that bull.” He jabbed his blunt spurs
into the cob, and broke into a canter.
Then he shouted, “Look out!”
Blind with rage, and hemmed in by the
milling bullocks, Don had brought the
bay behind the bull, almost touch-
ing him. With incredible speed the
great beast whirled, and bull and man and
horse disappeared in a cloud of dust. A
moment later the bull broke through,
scattering bullocks like chaff. Shrewdy
at his heels.
The bullocks were milling and leaping
over the fallen horse and man, and Don
was quite dead. He had landed on a
stony outcrop, the bay’s weight on top of
him, and his head was crushed in.
“His pelvis’d be broken, too,” Jim
Adams said. “Way he foil.” The bay
lay with its head in the dust, its eyes
filmed. It seemed to be past all pain,
and they were thankful for that.
“They can do that,” Reg said, staring
down at Don. He lay with his mouth
open, his eyes screwed up, his face waxen.
One hand was thrown up, and the whip-
handle lay in the palm. As though he
had gone to sleep and gently relaxed his
grip. “Bulls. Turn quick as light if you
get too close to them.” It was his epi-
taph.
Then Alan noticed the flies, and was
sick.
THEY thought it kinder to send Alan
down to Murdoch’s to ring up his
father while they attended to the clay of
Don Corrigan. Alan rode Reg’s dark cob,
and led Shrewdy, the lash of Don’s whip
tied round her collar. Shrewdy tugged
and dragged and whined savagely. Alan
looked down at her dully and wondered
why he was using Don’s whip. Then he
remembered: his own whip wasn’t long
enough.
Spanish Corrigan got out of the
Hudson and walked up the flagged stone
path, his dustcoat flapping. Alan stood
on Murdoch’s veranda and waited for
him.' His earliest memories of his father
had been a fiery-faced man in a dustcoat,
going to sales or races, or coming back
from them. An ogre of occasional ap-
pearances, with a voice like a bull, who
would send a whiplash curling around
young bare legs if they displeased him.
A fat man with a gold watch-chain and
truculent black eyes, boasting about his
cattle. He wondered if it had been the
same way with Don.
With a sudden, unchildish rush of per-
ception he could see that a change of
time, a passing of dreams, was walking
soberly up the path. So much of pride
and ambition lay broken inside the house,
covered by a clean white sheet. The man
in the dustcoat *would never be the same
roaring, robust, domineering Spanish Cor-
rigan again. He would roar, all right.
But it would be an empty roaring, with-
out conviction.
“What happened?” Spanish Corrigan
said.
Alan told him.
Spanish Corrigan rubbed his jaw.
“Ah.”
“He’s inside.”
Spanish Corrigan nodded, and went in-
side. Alan sat on the veranda rail,
staring at the red dots on Murdoch’s side
Sot Black’s Hill. Shrewdy came whining
round him, curling her lip, looking up at
him with mournful, savage eyes. Alan
snapped his fingers. “Poor old girl.”
Spanish came out with Bill Murdoch,
anxiously matter-of-fact. “Well, Spanish,
we all come to it —sooner or later.”
“Yes.” Spanish turned to Alan. “The
funeral will be tomorrow. From here.
I’m going now. Tell your mother.”
“She doesn’t know?”
"No.”
ALONG silence, broken by Shrewdy’s
whining. - #
“I’ll stay here.”
Spanish nodded. “Yes. The bullocks
will be all right. You can go up with
them after the funeral.”
Alan nodded. Reg would be in charge.
He wouldn’t be needed. But he knew
that it was right that a Corrigan should
go up with the cattle.


YOU CA^fETHE RE
B 6 /rs rm*e
t
s.
5*
'O
A retail store is a busy place where you
see only the final result of all the staff a
planning and striving.
You can't see the anxieties inseparable
to buying in many countries of the world.
You can't see the shipping problems. You
can't see the losses occasioned by sudden
changes in public taste.
And. of course, you can't see the Bank,
but it is therel Its dozen and one services
have contributed to this picture, and to
thousands of like pictures right from the
start.
The Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney Limited is Banker to men and Com-
panies in every Australian Industry.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
Cli
Wi
■V.
:
C
1 V 1
1 A Li
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers ofs~~
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS c c
EVAPORATED APPLET
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:-~~
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE aMTS
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHAN
A STORE OF LOVE
FROM the front window
Jean could see across the
sun-drenched road to the
store that threw back the
morning glare from its fibre
W EDWIN GUNN, GENERAL
STORE, stood out in big black
letters above the veranda, letters
that seemed to rush at her taunt-
ingly till she turned in annoy-
ance, and looked over the town-
ship that spread lazily and care-
lessly over the bare red slopes of
the shallow valley.
The town was like the store —
rambling, untidy, ugly and
almost as much in the hard
grasp of Mrs. Gunn as was the
store itself.
There she was now, darting
out of the black cave of the
doorway like an old witch, star-
ing impatiently across at the shut
door of the house, and jerking
back again into invisibility
within the store.
I BAN laughed irritably. Let
them wait till ten o’clock ;
that was the time she went over
to the store and that was early
enough. She had half a mind not
to go at all. Why should she
slave for nothing in a store that
wasn’t hers, that wasn’t even her
husband’s despite his name
above the veranda in black
letters? Certainly he got a share
of the profits, but only a small
share if the tales the gossiping
locals told of the money that
was made in the store were true.
And they were probably near
the truth, judging from her
experience, and what she took
over the counter and sent along
to the little dark box of an office
where Mrs. Gunn spent so much
time hunched over her books.
There she was again, in and
out of the doorway like a rabbit.
Jean glanced at the clock
above the fireplace and slowly
moved towards the hall door.
She had a good mind not to go
at all, just to let them see she
was her own boss, but she put
the idea out of her mind and
smiled at the thought of the sur-
prise that was coming to the old
woman when Edwin got back
from Brownhill in the afternoon.
It had taken a lot of arguing
and some threats to get him to
promise, but she had won at
last; and this was just the first
step. Let them get away to the
city for a few weeks, where she
could have him to herself, and
she would tell him the rest of her
plans.
SKE walked slowly across the
dusty hot road, where the
heat seemed to be concentrating
its forces for a later attack, and
hot puffs of air sent the dust
spiralling in little jets.
For a moment, as she
entered the store, the darkness
after the outside glare made her
blind, and she stood irresolute in
the doorway. Then objects
began to emerge from the gloom,
the long counters, the shelves,
the whips that had hung like
tails on the rusty hooks for
years, the glass show-cases, Alice
the hired girl lounging against
the wall, and Mrs. Gunn peer-
ing out of the little office and
sending a wave of enmity and
dislike towards her like the hot
gusts of air that were pressing
against her back.
She turned and looked back
across the fiery road to the shin-
ing weatherboard house Edwin
had built for her. She had got
the new home at least, but only
after years of struggle and argu-
ment with Edwin, and an open
conflict with his mother. And
now she was about to get a holi-
day in the city, the first they had
ever taken together, and then,
when she had him far away from
the town and the store and his
mother, she would tell him her
ideas, shake him loose, force him
to break away on his own.
MRS. GUNN’S voice dragged
her back into the store.
“Jean, Jean, will you make up
the order for the Hirsts? They’ll
be calling for it this morning. If
you want me I’ll be in the
house.”
Jean walked behind the
counter, and started to read the
items on the scrawled list while
Alice gave a shrug of relief as if
to say “Thank goodness the old
woman has gone.”
Alice knew she was unhappy
here, just as Mrs. Gunn knew it.
Everyone in the town knew it,
except Edwin, who tried to
placate her with the same old
promises she had heard for
years; a car for herself soon, a
house in the city, a holiday, a
move to the city some day. Well,
she had endured it long enough,
and now she was doing some-
thing about it
She hadn’t meant to let the
old woman know till the last
minute, Then she had intended
to say, “Edwin and I are leaving
for a holiday. Well be away for
a month.”
However, Mrs. Gunn’s jibe at
her yesterday had set fire to her
anger so that she had flashed
back at her, “Well, what
if I did make a mistake
with that account? It won’t ruin
your wonderful business, will it?
What I need is a holiday, a
change, and as soon as Edwin
returns tomorrow we are leaving
for the city.”
She had felt triumphant at
Mrs. Gunn’s momentary speech-
lessness, quick look of dismay,
and slow reply, “But he hasn’t
said anything to me.”
“He doesn’t have to tell you
everything, does he?” she had
asked, and walked to the other
side of the shop, where she pre-
tended to be looking among the
softgoods.
SINCE then Mrs. Gunn had
hardly spoken to her, but
she had been busier than usual
darting in and out of the office
hanging on the phone like an old
bat, hurrying here and then* „
the town. Then, late in the after
noon, her activities had stonned "
and now, this morning, she had
a self-satisfied look on her f ac
Jean couldn’t help feeling
little scared of the old woman
with her malicious tongue her
domineering manner and’ her
obsession with profits, the store
and her only child, Edwin
Nothing else mattered to Mrs
Gunn. Her husband was a
nonentity, a self-effacing, qu i et
old man who moved about the
house shrinkingly, or occasion-
ally gave a hand in the store till
his slowness aroused the con-
tempt of his wife, and she
banished him to the backyard or
the sun-dried little park on the
corner where he liked to sit and
yarn with# other old men.
She hurried through her lunch,
sitting alone in the kitchen of
her house. That was another
victory she had gained, the right
to have her meals in her own
home instead of with the Gunns.
“It’s silly to prepare two meais
when you and Edwin can share
ours,” Mrs. Gunn had said, but
she had insisted.
As she ate she kept looking
across to the store, its door now
shut against the glare of the
midday sun. She hated the sight
of it, harsh, untidy, dominant
like the countryside, like Mrs,
Gunn. And Edwin would be-
come like it, too, if she didn't
get him away. Perhaps she
would herself.
Before returning to the store
she walked into the bedroom to
reassure herself, and looked at
the suitcases that she had packed
last night, hers and Edwin’s in an
orderly row beside the bed.
BACK in the store she busied
herself with small jobs to
keep her mind off the slow pass-
ing of time. As usual Mrs, Gunn
popped her bead round the back
C Continued on page 32.)


The
to I'Obt T
Rolls lighter is precision built
for unfailing service. Fully auto-
matic, w 'fh built-in windguard, spare
'nt recess. Five year guarantee,
f-nrome 39/6.
Distributed by WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED
.ROLLS
depend on ff~
fs
t o
Your choice la CINZANO
Vermouth. whether your taste is for
sweet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives Just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
m
a^gsg
FOR
df
RHEUMATISM, FIBROSITIS,
SCIATICA, RHEUMATIC GOUT,
LUMBAGO, JOINT & MUSCULAR
PAINS arising from any condition
Cluny’s is a prescribed scientific formula which, taken as
directed, quickly strikes at the cause of and
exhaustibn, it restores proper functioning of the kidneys
and immediately eases the agonising pain and tones up
the whole nervous system—get back to good health and
well being with
dsf
CM. 16.9
cluny McPhersons
MIXTURE
FROM CHEMISTS
EVERYWHERE
FAMED THESE 30 YEARS
AN ECONOMY PLAN FOR THE POWER FARMER
The Lemcol L5O (illustrated) makes an easy one-man task of loading and
moving the heaviest drum or barrel, and the Lemcol range includes
other dtum handling equipment and straight hand trucks suffi-
cient to meet any requirement. For full information, write to
any of these Lemfcol distributors;
S.A.: Industrial Truck and Equipment Co.; McPherson’s Ltd.; Wm. Adams
& Co. Etd.; Cornell Etd.; Harris, Scarfe Etd.; Eemcol Sales and Service Co.
N.S.W.: Eliza Tinsley Pty. Etd.; E. W. Cox; Power Engineering Supplies
Pty. Ltd.; Wm. Adams & Co. Etd.; J. C. Eudowici & Son Etd.; McPherson’s
Etd. VIC. & TAB.: Perrot & Adams Pty. Etd.; Eliza Ttnsley Pty. Etd.;
Wm. Adams & Co. Etd.; J. C. Eudowici & Son Etd.; McPherson’s Etd.
Q’EANDi $ Engineering Supply 00. of Aust. Etd.; $ Hoey Pry Pty. Etd.;
$ Wm. Adams'& Co. Etd. WIA.: Atkins (W.A.) Etd.; McPherson’s Pty.
Etd.; Wm. Adams & Co. Etd.
$ Wheels and Casters only.
ADM
sdf
8l
LEMCOL
DRUM
CRADLE
sd
f
LEMCOL” THE NAME THAT CARRIES WEIGHT!
LDI9
/5
LEMCOL
L5O TRANSPORT
MANUFACTURED BY APAC INDUSTRIES UMITEO (INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT DIVISION) FINSBURY: SOUTH AUSTRALIA
JUDGING THE WINES
BY “COL M.”
TFN tall bottles stand in a
line on a small table m
the centre of the room.
Over against one wall there
is a longer table, and seated be-
hind it are three white-coated
men w ho are judges of wine.
Thev present an aspect ot pure
sobriety, each showing keen but
cold interest in the contents of
the ten glasses standing in
numbered squares on the table
before him. They look for all
the world like analytical chemists
—which, in a sense, they are.
Occupational hazards? Well,
the wine-judges say, we do
notice a slight heaviness towards
the end of judging on those hot
days that seem to do things to
the fumes. We are wary of hav-
ing even one drink after a day’s
judging— may produce disastrous
results. Nothing else, mind you ;
no alcoholic effects at all. They
glance across the room to where
the judges of spirits sit at a
similar table, but with dark
heady-looking liquor in their
glasses, with their faces showing
faint ruddiness, and their con-
versation light and breezy.
The wine experts are judging,
for the Royal Agricultural Show
in Sydney, specimen bottlings,
that come from vines all over the
Commonwealth from Roma,
the Hunter River, Mudgee,
Rooty Hill, the Murrumbidgee
Irrigation Area, Albury, Corowa,
Rutherglen, Geelong, Tahbilk,
Mildura, Coonawarra, Morphett
and Maclaren Vales, Adelaide,
Barossa, Clare, Watervale, Berri,
Renmark and Swan (W.A.).
The judges handle chablis
types, soft and dry, and colored
like pale straw; sweet sauternes
of pale green; the perfumed
green moselles; hocks, dry and
heavier than moselle; bur-
gundies, full and generous;
clarets, dry and velvety ; sherries,
muscats, tokays and tawny
ports; champagnes sparkling
pale gold. Wines with pedigrees
going back to some of the finest
vineyards in Europe, and yet
there are some as essentially Aus-
tralian as the Merino stud-ram,
needing that affix —“Australian-
type”— position which O. A.
Mendelsohn, who wrote the
Earnest Drinker’s Digest, and
may therefore reasonably be
suspected of being a purist,
regards as regrettable:
Chabiis, hock, burgundy and cham-
pagne are the names of geographical
districts— not of grapes. A vine
grown in a particular place and then
Harvested and cellared in the tradition
t that place will produce a recognis-
able type of wine. The same vine
ween away to a different soil and
hmate and subjected to different
and other conditions
ill almost always produce a radically
itterent beverage which would not
ontuse an expert at the first mouth-
— , t b £ long run Australian
wine-makers who label their beverages
.sauternes,” or whatever else they
mk they resemble, defeat their own
ue interests. Such wines will always
e centered inferior substitutes for
e true French, German and other
rf J ra |*» whose cloak they have
nned. Yet these wines may be, and
j ; en are > quite fine in their own
, rights, and if validly
.■ Hcd with a place or other descrip-
a »k n ? me Iboy might start to build
wholesome reputation.
By airing Mr. Mendelsohn’s
heory among any group of those
«o know Australian wines one
f Buy himself fights and
Jfnds in fairly equal numbers.
_ se against the idea of giving
our wines purely local names
must, however, admit that their
opponents gained solid ammuni-
tion in the form of a letter which
came just recently from a
merchant at Oslo, Norway, to an
Australian winemaker who had
shipped him some red wine
which carried an Australian
name:
One of the greatest connoisseurs of
wine in this country is the shipowner
I. B. Stang. His son-in-law, Nils
Astrup, had tasted the wine you sent
me and found it so good that he
asked, me to give a .bottle to his
father-in-law. He tasted and tasted.
He did not find it strong enough to
be a burgundy. It lacked the par-
ticular taste of the Rhone wine. He
did not even find it strong enough to
be a pommerol, so he concluded that
it had to be a St. Emilion 1934 or
1937. When he heard it was Aus-
tralian, 1945, he was amused, irritated
and impressed. He insisted on getting
two other bottles to fool his connois-
seur friends. Their best guess was that
the wine was grown in an unknown
valley between Burgundy, Rhone and
the Bordeaux districts. You have
really reason to be proud of your
wine.
Of our wines generally, those
holding purely local names, and
the “type” wines, the greatest
export year was 1937, when
4,087,731 gallons was sold over-
seas. The sale dropped sharply
in 1942 to 817,015 gallons, but
has risen since then to the
2,688,366 gallons in 1948. Of
this the United Kingdom bought
over two million gallons, which
may explain the unexpected
abandon of the Encyclopedia
Britannica in saying: “Wine is
the living blood of the grape, it
is liable to sickness and doomed
to death.”- It is pleasing to note
then that our judges of wine are
doing their job well, and that in
recent years more and more of
our Australian wine has been
dying the good death, almost as
much as before the war, across
the globe.
In 1948-49 our exports were
poorer: 2,011,053 gallons, of
which only 750,000 gallons went
to Britain. U.K. import duties
are a problem.
The profession of those who
judge this wine seems enviable
at first, but in reality there is
possibly no greater torment that
could be devised for a man who
appreciates wine.
Consider yourself faced with
a row of glasses of the best
champagne produced by ten dif-
ferent vineyards and being asked
to judge it not by the method
which immediately comes to
mind—of taking a grand empty-
ing gulp from each, emerging
with a splendid glow, and award-
ing every glass the first-prize
ribbon —but in the detached,
scientific manner of the experts.
Watch one. He reaches for-
ward and lifts each glass up to
the light, observes its brightness,
clarity and trueness to color of
type and gives it what it deserves
of five points. Then he takes up
the glasses again, gives each a
little swirl to raise the bouquet,
applies his nose to the rim and
breathes deeply. Some samples
are placed back on their squares
with a faint shudder; others are
raised again in pairs so that their
scents, their “fragrance of
strange fruits and flowers,” may
be judged comparatively, and
finally they are all allotted their
points from a possible ten. The
other two judges are studying
their glasses of the same wines,
so that the total points for each
wine allotted by each judge will
be added to determine the
winner. After the “nose” test
comes the tasting, again for ten
points, and from each glass the
judge takes a mouthful of wine,
rolls it for a moment around his
palate, then spits it out into a
bucket of sa'wdust.
Would you have the will-
power to perform this ceremony
of judging, loaded as it is with
temptation and culminating in
that sacrilegious though neces-
sary waste, and finally be able
to say to your assistant judges in
a voice without a tremor of re-
morse : “I allot this No. 7 speci-
men twenty-four points”? And
that without cracking a single
glass-stem in your fingers?
Through their lifetime associa-
tion with wine these judges have
developed the keenest senses of
smell and taste, which show
them subtle differences in what,
to others, might seem identical
goods. While they work at their
table various comments pass be-
tween them, startling to the lay-
man and evoking immediate
respect.
“I say, what about this
No. 8?”
“Ah! I thought that- myself.
I’m afraid it’s a little too good
to be true. At least two years
out of its class.”
They are judging young wines,
and someone has apparently
submitted a not-so-young.
“I like this No. 3,” says the
other judge. “It has a little
sulphur, but it’s the only thing
you can object to.”
These judges are tolerant men
who give kindly replies to in-
terrogative scribes/
“You spoke of noticing
sulphur in one of the specimens.
How would it get there?”
“Well, you see, on the bloom
of the grapes, together with the
yeasts, there are a number of
wogs that can interfere with the
ferment, turn it sour and ruin
(i Continued on page 32.)


A Warmer Gown
for
Cooler Months...
Here’s a gown for winter —soft,
warm and roomily comfortable.
Made of plain maroon pure wool,
it is of winter weight, and Jooks
smart and feels luxurious. It has a
roll collar, three pockets, gauntlet
cuffs and self waistband. Price,
£6/0/6.
Gowns of pure merino wool with a
suede finish, in smart overcheck
designs in shades of blue, green,
brown and maroon with plain
collar and cuffs: £5/19/6.
Also Mohair and wool mixture in
plain fawn camel hair shade :
£B/1/6.
m
ALUMINIUM SHOE TREES
These shoe trees have just arrived from
England. Fully adjustable by means of a
steel extension bar, as illustrated, they aie
available in all sizes.
Light in weight and compact, they are ideal
for home use in wet shoes or travelling,
11/6 pair.
■i
-•r:
■
ENGLISH HATS BY CHRISTY
Smartly styled and light in weight, Christy’s
“Rollaway” hats can be rolled up to fit your
pocket without losing their .shape. In 2iin.
plain brim, unlined, 61/-.
Also 2|in. welt edge brim, 64/-.
Colours; dark fawn, dark grey and brown.
Wild fowl mixture, with 2|in. plain brim,
lin. band and satin lined. In brown, fawn
and green mixtures, 65/6.
dsf
PEAPES PTY. LTD.
NEXT WYNYARD STATION. 285 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Hunter Street, Sydney)
Public Notice.
TO MURIEL McMAHON formerly of
Pemberton Western Australia but whose
whereabouts are now unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that a Cftation in a suit num-
bered .So. 4 of 1950 bearing date the 14th
day of February 1950 has been issue'll
out of the Divorce Registry of the
Supreme Court of Western Australia citing
you to appear and answer the Petition
of JAMES McMAHON of Royal Aus-
tralian Air Force Station Amberley in
the State of Queensland praying for a
dissolution of his marriage with you and
in default of your so doing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said
Petition proved and pronounce sentence
in respect thereof AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
you are within thirty days (80) from
the date of this advertisement to attend
in person or by your Solicitor at the
Divorce Registry of our said Court at
Perth and there to enter an Appearance
in a book provided for that P uf P“®'
Dated this 14th day of February, Ww-
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. MEShKh.
DARBYSHIRE, GILLETT and HUELIA
of 42 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solici-
tors for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notices.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.—IN Divorce.
'0 ERNEST GEORGE WILKINSON
also known as George Cecil Wilkinson).
-TAKE NOTICE that your
)OROTHY PHYLLIS WILKINSON hw
led a petition No. 4582 of 19
iivorce on the grounds of desertion
ut just, cause or exfcuse for three'
nd upwards If you wish *lf pfvjrce
ray enter an appearance in tne
tegistry Supreme Court King .
ydney by the Bth May 195 .®
copy of the petition without cMTg
rom MESSRS. BOYCE &
ors. 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydncy- U-
DQUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce-
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NE
SOUTH Divohce Via}{
'0 NORMAN HENRY puilY
lARDING.—TAKE NOTICE that t
’LORENOE HARDING has filed
ion for Divorce No. 588 of J. “' ut just
round of your d^ rt ' t yea rs and
ause or excuse for. three j. oD
ipwards If you e piyorce
iay enter an appearance t Sydney
iffice Supreme Court King . an( j you
y the 24th day of Hay with"
iay obtain a copy o* pEEDOM *
ut charge from HENRY U
JHAPMAN, Solicitors, Crown.
Wollongong. (L.s.)
Registrar in Divorce.
o
-•
a
0
rj
ALL KINDS OF
FISHING TACKLE*
For river, beach a ° d
sea fishermen. Engl '®
French NYLON LINES---
hunting knives ...sm
requisites. Write I° r m
fishing catalogue, now a
able.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George St., S ydn ?
phone
NORTH OF CAPRICORN
By “EK DUM.”
That a hundred delegates
have arranged to take part in
the conference at Townsville on
the development of North
Queensland seems to show that
at last the North is beginning
to take itself seriously.
Well it might; and so might
Australia. For the condition of
the North, its lack of substantive
progress in keeping with the
progress of the temperate South
and the complete lack of
balance in national thinking
about its problems and poten-
tialities are very serious matters.
The 1947 census, the analyses of
which are just now becoming
available, chart the shoals in the
way of Northern progress very
clearly. They belie, obviously,
much of what is written
about the fertility and op-
portunities of the North and its
suitability for the white races.
Or else they contradict the nor-
mal belief of Australians in
general in the enterprise, re-
source and adventurousness of
their own race and of immigrant
peoples at large.
The fact is that 95 per cent, of
the growth both in industry and
population is in the temperate
south, and most of the develop-
ment of industry and popula-
tion, both in the south and
north, is huddled in the areas
of the great cities and towns,
where comfort is an optimum.
The noTth of Australia may
reasonably be described as that
portion of the continent which
sits above the Tropic of Capri-
corn ; that is, above degrees
south of the Equator, It consists
of over one-third of Australia —
1,149,000 square miles.
On the map the Tropic runs
jpst to the south of Rockhamp-
ton in Central Queensland,
which is about 400 miles
by rail from Brisbane. The
furthest tip of white-inhabited
laud northward from it is
Thursday Island, about 1000
miles away by direct air-line. It
runs across the continent to the
Westralian coast, sixty or seventy
miles south of Exmouth Gulf
and to the north of Carnarvon,
It shaves Longreach as it passes,
runs a few miles south from
Boulia, a few miles north of
Alice Springs. Thence the nature
of its journey to the Westralian
coast, through a land which is
mostly desert and flies, is
marked upon the map in con-
junction with such suggestive
geographic names as Lake
Patience, Lake Disappointment
and the Ophthalmia Ranges.
It is a sort of fable with the
newspapers and with politicians
that all the area north of the
tropic is a neglected Paradise
which needs only a little capital,
a little enterprise and some more
civil servants and “schemes” to
make it bloom like the rose and
carry tens of mill'ions of people.
Only a morsel of the area is
in that happy position, and has
been developing rapidly. But
about most of it, though it may
be developed to some extent in
resources, there is nothing to
suggest that under present cir-
cumstances its development can
much increase the human popu-
lation. Great areas of it are
similar to large tracts of southern
Asia which, adjacent to crowded
and starving populations, are yet
almost as empty as some of out-
back Australia.
The area above the Tropic
divides itself into three zones,
each of which needs to be con-
sidered separately—Queensland,
north of the Tropic line (359,000
sq. miles), the Northern Terri-
tory (426,000 sq. miles) and
northern W estern Australia
(364,000 sq. miles),
N. Queensland’s Industries
The only zone which seems
to promise immediate substan-
tial development is North
Queensland, or, rather, a small
strip of it between Cooktown
and Mackay. It is certain that
if nature had placed this district
on the north coast of Australia
in the region of Darwin it
would long ago have been
colonised by Asiatics, Only its
remoteness from Asian traffic-
lines kept it reseryed for the
whites. Where the first settle-
ment of the Far North Coast in
the Arnhem region took place
in the late ’twenties of the last
century, there was no settlement
on the North Queensland coast
until the ’fifties, no substantial
move thither until the late ’sixties.
It was certainly helped by the
gold rushes of later years, but so
was the Territory. Yet nobody
ever conceived for North
Queensland the brilliant plan
more than once mooted regard-
ing the Territory of selling it to
the Japanese, and its progress
has been comparable with that
of rich districts in the south, and
its production has had a very
marked effect on the all-Aus-
tralian economy.
Its output of sugar is worth
something like £30,000,000 a
year, the equivalent of a national
wool-cheque not so many
decades ago ; but like all other
industries in the north it is ham-
pered by industrial difficulties,
by the rising incidence of loaf
in the wharflaboring business
and by the high cost of materials
and of transport, caused very
largely by Communist machina-
tions. The loading rate at the
wharves of sugar cities today,
carried out with modern
machinery, is far slower than it
used to be from lighters out in
the bay before World War I.
North Queensland coastal
strip produces a very substantial
output of logging timbers, nearly
half the total output of the State,
including a very large bulk of
beautiful furniture woods. And
the temperate heights of the
Atherton Tableland assure the
North of a regular supply of
dairy products beyond its local
needs.
There is room for expansion
of industry and population in
this zone, provided costs can be
kept within a reasonable level
in relation to production. So
far the hard-working capacity of
Italian and other immigrants has
helped to provide proof that
white men can live and compete
in the tropics.' But observers
are beginning to be worried by
the general slackening under
the influence of the new kind of
political union-leader, of whom
there is a peculiarly arrogant
type in the North, always ready,
on some slight pretext, to shut
down industry.
The Wilting West
Behind the coastal belt there
is the huge spread of the West.
This consists, of a huge tongue
of sheep country running up
through the centre, parts of it
producing some of the best of
Australia’s fine wools, with an
envelope of cattle country which
reaches up into the Gulf and
the Cape York Peninsula. It
has railways, air services and
good main roads. Much of it is
watered by bores. The northern
part is watered by the Gulf of
Carpentaria streams. It is
capable of much heavier stock-
ing with improvement, if it can
carry the costs of improvement
and the rising cost of station
labor. There is also a vast
mineral belt running into the
Macarthur River headwaters
from the Gloncurry region. And
in this the Mt, Isa company has
proved that towns can be estab-
lished in which it.is possible for
the white man to live as com-
fortably as in coastal N. S.
Wales —at a price. Mt. Isa’s site
on the Leichhardt a generation
ago was a lonely and not very
large cattle-ground. Today it is
a busy and well-built town, with
its own swimming baths, stores
and normal civilised amenities
At the same time, under
present conditions, there seems
little chance of the expansion of
the western population 0 f
25.000 in terms of hundreds of
thousands, much less millions
by any means within sight. ’
The Carpentaria shores are
emptier than they were i n the
gold days of forty years and
more ago. The Gape York
Peninsula holds not more than
about 2000 people, a large pro-
portion half-caste. There is not a
settlement which can be properly
called a town between Cook
town and Thursday Island or
between Cooktown and Darwin
And even the most populous
parts of the sugar, and timbered
tropic area of North Queens-
land are thinly held by com-
parison with the ant-heap dis-
tricts of Java, or even with the
coastal districts of S. Queensland
and of New South Wales, which
are most populous, yet inferior
to the northern coastal littoral
quality.
North Versus South
The census of 1947 tells the
story plainly and alarmingly.
In the Greater Brisbane area
there are 39 municipalities classi-
fied under “cities and towns”
which had a total of 103,000
dwellings in 1947, 80,460 of
them holding one family each.
In Queensland north of the
Tropic there are only eight
aggregations (one of which is
tiny Thursday Island) which are
graded under the heading “cities
and towns,” and there are some
thirty-odd shires. And the
whole area, towns, cities and
shires together, boast only
60.000 dwellings, of which
42,000 —just over half the total
for Greater Brisbane—house
single families.
Population figures, considering
the potential of the rich coastal
area especially, are as dis-
heartening as they can be. The


Must We Fight
Russia?
Is Russia planning to
make war on the Demo-
cratic nations? Ha’ve her
experiments with the A-
bomb and the even more
monstrous H-bomb hastened
her plans?
In the Reader’s Digest for
March, George F. Kennan,
leading counsellor to the
U.S. Department of State,
present's his answers to to-
day’s riddle of Russia’s in-
tentions for war or peace.
In the same issue are
more than 30 articles of
lasting interest, condensed
from leading magazines and
best-selling books. March
Reader’s Digest, now one
shilling and sixpence, at all
and bookstalls.
4%
Gmm ..
StcitfdiC
GIVES
personality
TO YOUR
WRITING
df
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
marvellous nib
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Rupture
Enables^ou 7 ? oUsse * Free
comfort d . hard work witt
holds a onnA- Be T lty - Deflnitelj
l°r improvement ° lUtdy necessar 3
SSTffSajr d -tors and thou.
naranL d i fn i T ers ‘ Satisfactior
Purr Cali t€r V^ ere you liv
rREE^V^!f, nd "
free details, self-measu
'■‘'"■“Oj fcii-xueasu
Wr. nTobHgatSn.' I*l 1 * 1 ' 3 ’ fr6e "
(Dept. 127 I 27 ) US g e l f Appliance C
Martin Plaee Sydl
\* Trs J^ e Australian
WOMAN’S MIRR(
KniUi M g ’ ,?° chet anc
Needlecraft
H “ lth Talk,' Mo.here,e
S " U i Sl '°« Stories at
Special Articles
0n sale everywhei
Price 4d.
Position Wanted.
EXPERT MECHANICIAN.
Manage Garage or Hangar.
Abstainer. Go anywhere.
Box 604, G.P.0., Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
COLEMAN. —Information is sought of
FREDERICK WILLIAM COLEMAN, late
of Cronulla, in respect of the estate of
his late mother, MARGARET EMILY
COLEMAN. Any person able to supply
any reliable information please communi-
cate with JAMES E. CARRUTHERS &
Co., Solicitors, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ANNIS and CHILD. —Anyone knowing the
whereabouts of EDITH MARIA ANNIS
and ANNIE ELIZA CHILD, or any other
children of WILLIAM ANNIS and MARY
ANN BARNES, are asked to communicate
with T. J. PURCELL, Solicitor, 66 King
Street, Sydney, where information to their
advantage may be obtained.
WOULD any person knowing the where-
abouts of ROBERT HENRY RANSON
HOUSE, who disappeared from Storey’s
Creek, Tasmania, on the 31st January,
1949, please communicate with Messrs.
Shields Heritage Stackhouse and Martin,
Solicitors, 55 Paterson Street, Launceston.
INFORMATION is sought as to the next-
of-kin of WILLIAM CRAW who died un-
married on 21st July, 1949, aged 79 years,
and who resided at 30 Lawler Street,
Subiaco, Western Australia. He was the
son of JAMES CRAW, who was born at
Edinburgh, Scotland, and whose date
and place of death are unknown, and
JESSIE CRAW nee FRASER, who was
born at Inverness, Scotland, and who died
in Western Australia in 1904. JAMES
CRAW was the son of JAMES CRAW
and ELIZABETH CRAW nee FALCONER.
JESSIE FRASER was the daughter of
ALEXANDER FRASER and MARY
FRASER nee WILSON. The next-of-kin
or persons having any information as to
the whereabouts of the next-of-kin are
requested to contact the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, A.N.A. House, 44 St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, Western Australia.
m
'"TcT
m
sdf
icr -vnoAc
CL
Qo<\djcii!Lf ...
It’s simple as A.B.C.
You’ll find the recipe
in the NEW 1950
Vickers Cocktail Book,
with dozens more
sweet, medium and dry
cocktails and cooling
long drinks.
With the new Vickers
Cocktail Book you’ll
learn how easy all
drinks are to prepare
—and how many dif-
ferent kinds you can
make from the simplest
ingredients.
Vickers cin
2 00 YEARS OF TRADITION, 1750*1950
WRITE FOR YOUR FREE
COPY of 1950 Vickers Cock-
tail Book to The United Distil-
lers Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 759 G.
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. It
will be mailed promptly, post
free.
3 people in 5 choose Vickers.
The greatest name in Gin; —-from
Australia’s greatest distillery.
j . x
VI/SESA
|k|p
total cen-
s^SiSsm
are
creaSe „f aU economic growth,
basis of au et striking
Moreover, it « areas <,£
fact that in , a ine process is
place QVerall increase
22389 in urban provin ?? l
0 f the east coast, while
f as " s an actual decline in
iJfslSe population of rural
th •ifQueensland of 9349 and
a aW population of 460.
The Sony districts therefore
tave actually gone back m the
14 years between countings,
‘ Vany case, the net increase
for the whole north of Queens-
Hnd-under 13,000-compares
noorly with the increase of
146 000 in non-tropical Queens-
J an d, which had roughly four
limes the population of the
North in 1933 and which
occupies less than half the area
of the State.
Industrial Comparisons
There seems to be an un-
balance between the rural and
non-rural industries, or some of
them. Those occupied in graz-
ing in 1947, representing the
main staple of inland industry
covering the bulk of the tropical
area, numbered 8585 ; but civil
servants, outside railways and
professional and social workers,
numbered 8841 out of a total
“Ninety-nine”
population of 110,000 employed
and earning.
The N.T.’s Troubles
Moving one’s gaze to the
Northern Territory the prospect
is even bleaker. The Territory
occupies one-sixth of the whole
of the continent, and it is
generally held up as a sort of
Elysium which has been ruined
by the neglect of southern poli-
ticians. In plain fact it has had
more attention from the poli-
ticians and more consideration
than any other part of Australia.
At present its only really im-
portant and permanent industry,
beef-raising, is free of income
tax, though employees in the in-
dustry don’t share in the ex-
emption.
Rents for pastoral holdings
are next to nothing, and a selec-
tor is apt to turn up his nose
at any area of less than 500
square miles in districts away
from the railhead more than a
couple of hundred miles.. Huge
roads —all-weather roads and
built in war-time regardless of
cost —cover the main routes.
Every possible concession has
been given in the way of im-
provement covenants —as often
as not undeserved —but all that
has happened is that real popu-
lation development has been con-
fined to two bloated civil-service
towns, one above and one below
the Tropic, in one of which the
only citizens who appear able to
make a settled living are the
Chinese. There also is one min-
ing camp which has not as yet
earned for itself the title of
town.
There are fewer occupied dwel-
lings (2705) —and some of them
are only humpies—in the whole
500,000 square miles of the
Northern Territory than there
are in one seaside-town suburb
of Brisbane —Wynnum (3020).
And the figures which picture
the distribution of a population
increase in tropical N.T. are
somewhat deceptive. They show
an “urban provincial” increase,
whatever that may be, in an
area of this nature which has
improved by 972 from 1566 in
1933, against a rural population
increase of 3488 from 2541 and
a slight migratory increase.
The population of the whole
N.T., inclusive of the strip south
of the Tropic which includes
Alice Springs, was at June, 1947,
10,868. Of this 1752 were either
half-caste or non-European. Of
the total over 7700 were packed
into the police districts of Dar-
win and Alice Springs, 1000
miles to the south.
One other police district, Ten-
nant Creek, boasted over 500
people, one other over 300
(Katherine).
The increases which have
raised the N.T. population to
the level of one per 50 square
miles were virtually all ac-
counted for round the two capi-
tals and the Tennant area, and
the distribution of the sexes
does not promise much for
natural increase.
In the rural centres men out-
number women in every district,
rarely less than three to one,
and sometimes five to one. In
Alice Springs, the most normal
town, there were 1185 males at
the time of the census and 893
women; at Darwin there were
two men to every woman. For
the whole territory the average
proportion was more than two
men to a woman, which also
represented about the propor-
tion in which the sexes increased.
One-fifth of the whole popula-
tion was under 15 years of age.
There were 103 families with
more than three children under
16 years old and only 534
married women, many of whom,
of course, were Asiatics or part
Asiatics.
Industry statistics confirm the
gloomy view produced by the
rest of the figures. After being
known to man for well over 120
years and connected with the
south and east by trading routes
for nearly 80 years, the N.T. in
1947 had only 64 persons en-
gaged in mixed farming, two in
dairying, five in pig-farming, 12
in poultry-farming and 917 (in-
cluding 42 ladies) in grazing,
while the forestry activity in
this huge sixth of Australia em-
ployed only six.
It is illuminating that “public
authority (n.e.i.) and profes-
sional activities” cover a group
of employees roughly twice as
large as that engaged in the
staple industries of the land and
sea, excluding mining, in which
under 400 were engaged, and
nearly five times as large as that
devoted to commerce, finance
and property.
The Neglected Kimberleys
It is certainly not a very
bright picture of a land which
yields no taxation in its primary
production and which is costing
something like £3OO a head of
population to govern.
Of Western Australia’s section
of the tropics—the fertile Kim-
berleys down to the Ham-
mersley Range area, the two
districts divided by the Great
Sandy Desert, through which the
Rocket Range is aimed in its
more long-distance ramifications
—much the same can be writ-
ten as of the Territory. It boasts
only 5177 people and no aggre-
gation which even a census-
collector can classify as “urban
provincial.”
All in all, the tropics, making
up perhaps over a third of the
whole continent, hold only
267,000 persons, as has been
said, on the 1947 figures, 230,000
of them packed into a tiny area
on the Queensland coast in the
four statistical districts of Rock-
hampton, Mackay, Townsville
and Cairns. Population in-
creased only 17,000 in 14 years ;
of the increase 3711 were men
and 13,000-odd women. The
area’s rural and migratory
populations actually declined by
8677 men, but this was more
than offset by the increase of
males in the towns and of
females in the country. During
the period when the overall in-
crease of 17,000 took place in
the tropics the increase in the
remaining two-thirds of Aus-
tralia was 932,000, the bulk of it
in the capital cities.
Certainly something needs
doing about North Australia,
and it is time that northerners
took the matter into their own
bands and solved their own
problems with the sympathetic
help of the south. It has become
all the more urgent with the de-
velopment of national inde-
pendence in South-east Asia,
seeing that all' military ap-
proaches are to the empty
North.
The difficulties of develop-
ment are not—at least in the east
and west—insuperable. They are
constantly studied in Queens-
land by a capable Investigation
Board. But before they can be
developed the regions involved
must be in a position to make
their own interests their primary
concern and not, as at present,
the mere secondary interest of
politicians who go through life
with the first-priority needs of
the greedy capital cities and in-
dustrial areas of southern Aus-
tralia hung round their necks by
way of handicaps.


trust estate
H4J»>
XHEIE
Facts you should know in the
interests of your Estate & your Dependants.
The informative booklet, “Trust Estates and Their Management,”
has been compiled to acquaint you with the facts and problems
connected with choosing your Executor and Trustee. This is a
matter which every prudent man must consider at some .time. It
is a decision which vitally affects the welfare of your dependants,
and is therefore one about which every person should be fully
informed.
Write to-day for your copy of this free booklet ... or call and
discuss the matter personally with one of our Executive Officers.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle F. W. Hixson, 0.8.E.,V.D-
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M-B.C i.i •»
F.R.A.CS. J. R- Faviell
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager: C. N. P■ Vhitlle
Sub. Manager: S. V. White
Secretary: F. R. Garland
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. «f N.S.W. LID.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
PT. 12015
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
GERMAN FOOD-RATIONING.
The end of food-rationing in
Western Germany just before
the British elections gave the
electors a good deal to think
about when they went to the
polls. They were offered such
glowing accounts of unrationed
Germany as that of the “York-
shire Post’s” correspondent:
“When I arrived back in Hull
from Western Germany on
Saturday with some of my
friends we had one common
problem —how to carry home
our stocks of ham, tongue,
bacon, tinned meat, chocolate
and nylons.”
“The butchers bulge with 4> e£ f
and pork and the grocers groan
with hams and tongues. And
there are so many cream-cakes
and cigarettes in the confec-
tioners’ and tobacconists’ respec-
tively that to walk down a Ger-
man street is to go back 10 years
in English time.
“ ‘But remember! Prices are
high: many cannot afford them ;
Germany is still a poor country.’
Well, there is no doubt some
truth in it. There are over a mil-
lion unemployed in Western
Germany, although how many
newly-imported refugees from
the East this figure includes I
was not able to determine. The
workers generally are not paid as
much as in England. And the
prices of some goods, although
not by any means all, are higher.
“But, and it is a big but, there
is an atmosphere of undoubted
prosperity abroad. Production
of almost everything is going up,
and both unemployment and
prices are falling rapidly. And
if Germany is still a poor country
one sees few signs of it in a
casual walk down the street. No
one looks hungry and few hard-
up. The children look chubby
and happy, as all children should
look.
“They have to work hard for
it! That would appear to l?e the
key. There is an incentive to
work hard in Germany—the in-
centive of more to eat. If a
docker works a 48-hour week in
Bremen he gets about £5, and
cannot afford ham for supper.
If he works overtime he gets £6
and has ham for supper twice a
week. But if he helps with house-
building and other odd jobs at
the weekends he can earn £8
and have ham for supper every
night. And because he is natu-
rally industrious and likes ham
that is what he is doing.”
The “Y. Post” qualified its
correspondent’s report with the
cautious editorial comment that
“Western Germany differs from
Britain in that too many marks
are no longer chasing too few
goods. It is therefore safe to re-
move the restraint of rationing
because the level of prices is high
enough to provide an equally
strong restraint. Prices are being
forced down; but the reason —
unpleasant for the conspmer—is
that people cannot, afford to buy.
The West German standard of
of living is today no more than
75 per cent, of the pre-war-
standard. A comparison with
Britain is difficult, but it is cer-
tain that Britain is much nearer
the pre-war standard.”
More - enthusiastic observers
included a correspondent writing
to the London “Daily Tele-
graph”: “At the huge markets
everywhere the vegetables are as
cheap as they were before the
war in England. We recently
had an excellent meal for less
than 25., and the worker can
get a very good plate of sausage
and usual trimmings for about
v^' ew
is?
* U
—London “Daily Mail.”
DOUBLE EAGLE
a shilling. Meat is expensive,
but with all the vegetables and
eggs and cheese it must be a
poor housewife who lets the
breadwinner go hungry.”
And Sefton Delmer in the
“Daily Express”; “The new
German Government is deliber-
ately feeding up the • German
people and using food as an in-
centive to higher individual
initiative and output. Not for
them the false economy which
insists that no man shall fare
better than his neighbor, how-
ever much harder he works, or
however much better he or-
ganises his work.”
Editorially, the “D. Express”
was in complete accord with its
correspondent; “It seems prob-
able that the German Ministers
have decided that the choice is
between a risk which carries the
prize of quick recovery—and the
dreary drag of rations which
carries with it no hope of early
recovery at all.”
At the other extreme, of
course, the Labor view was rep-
resented by the “Daily Herald”:
“Hundreds of thousands of un-
employed German workers now
face a means test imposed by the
West German Government.
There are 1,750,000 people out
of work in this war-torn and
overcrowded half-nation. They
are the living answer to British
Tory propaganda which repre-
sents post-war Germany as a
land of plenty in contrast to
Britain; Throughout Western
Germany hundreds of thousands
of men, women and children live
only on public doles. This de-
veloping mass-misery takes place
against a background of low
wages that make the ‘well-
stocked food-shops’ little more
than a mockery.”
Somewhere between the two
extremes and, being unaffected
by rationing or an election, the
average American view is prob-
ably as sound as any. It is well
put by the N. Y. “Herald Tri-
bune’s” correspondent, who
found “the opulence of Ger-
many, interspersed with all its
ruins, an all-out, never-ending
source of amazement. Frank-
furt, Dusseldorf, Hamburg,
Munich —these cities produce the
contrast block by block. First
a window of delicate Rosenthal
or Meissen, of leather-goods or
jewellery, and then a gaping hole
where bombs fell six or eight
years ago and the rubble still lies
heaped. Then a delicatessen with
a window of plump little
chickens, pale, lean veal schnit-
zel, rich red beefsteaks or great
tins of Bismarck herring and
slabs of cheese from all over
Europe. I
“This is the atmosphere of
Western Germany, and because
the stimulus and impetus of a
consumer economy is so great—
free as it has been of the con-
trols which kept other European
consumer demands in check —
the underlying dangers are less
obvious and are causing less con-
cern.
“Some danger-signs are up —
a sudden worsening of a balance-
of-trade position in the last few
months as a result of the freeing
of a lot of German import re-
strictions ; unemployment has
risen steadily over the last eight
months to the present level of
about 1,500,000. Considering the
economic load of refugees from
the east which swells West Ger-
many’s population every week,
this is perhaps not an unreason-
able figure but reflects, neverthe-
less, a problem which cannot be
seen in the shop windows.
“West Germany still faces the
basic question of where new
capital is coming from. Caught
in a squeeze of high interest
rates on the one hand and high
production costs on the other,
industrialists cannot afford to
borrow the kind of money they
need for long-term capital-equip-
ment projects. On the other side
of the picture, the moneylenders
are interested primarily in quick
returns, with the result that
hotels, or restaurants, or depart-
mental stores or banks are im-
proving and rebuilding every-
where, producing another of the
signs of false stability while the
basic productive machinery con-
tinues to languish.”
Interchangeable Arms.
The agreement between
Britain, Canada and the U.S. to
set about “the gradual develop-
ment of common designs and
standards in arms, equipment
and training methods” is de-
scribed by the “Scotsman” as
another step to further the effec-
tiveness of the Atlantic Pact.
To the obvious disadvantages
of the lack of interchangeability,
the “Manchester Guardian” adds
the points that “American fac-
tories producing for British
forces had to be specially tooled,
and their products could not be
diverted to American use; the
Canadian forces generally used
British equipment, and so could
not draw on the main resources
of American industry.”
The changeover to standard
equipment will be slow, however.
because “all three countries W
large stocks of durab e « e
ment m reserve, and naturalß'
not want to write thpm «•
obsolete, as they “
new type is adopted; and th
new type cannot be geneJu
f^domiltheyhavelccS
Med reserves of this, too ”
thoroughly sensible fdea; the
product of no treaty, but of
something stronger than a treaty
—the conviction that those who
togethef 0 alWays
together. That is co-operation
reduced to its most pracS
terms, and in co-operation lies
security.” s
The Hydrogen Bomb.
Further comment on the latest
universal headache seems to
agree that mankind is perilously
close to the brink along which it
has been tottering for a few
thousand years. It might be re-
membered, however, that a year
or two ago when one of our
ancestors discovered a new and
particularly lethal stone axe he
generally kept the matter to
himself until he could belt it into
his opponent’s skull without any
previous discussion. It is re-
motely possible, then, that the
directly-opposite way of think-
ing, as evidenced in most of the
following comment, indicates the
beginning of an inch or two
away from the brink.
“Osservatore Romano”-: “If
there is no other means to stop
war than the old ‘prepare for
war in time of peace,’ and if
there is nothing to do but to
prepare for war in proportions
which never before have been
known, then it is proper for us
to confess that we are face to
face with the absolute failure of
(modern) philosophy, the
(modern) way of life and
(modern) pseudo - civilisation.
This is all the more true after
two world wars which were
fought for the announced rea-
sons that they were the only way
to eliminate war, to disarm and
to prosper in peace.”
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“The Roman saying ‘lf you wish
for peace, prepare for war,’ has
never lost validity in dealing with
barbarians. Indeed, the only
possible course is to be strong.
“Manchester Guardian :
“There seem to be two great mis-
conceptions in the official mind.
The first is that a foolproo
system of atomic-control can
ever be established; the secon ,
that anything less would be
worse than the present arm
race. These might be dangerous
enough in themselves. But when
we add the common but mis-
guided notion that the be^ t !"'
strument for United States
foreign policy is the biggest j po
sible stick they could easily o
fatal.” _.
London “Sunday Times .a
the experience of the prp
century, from the ease of
Dreadnoughts in 1906-09 o
wards, should have taugb_
statesmen anything, it is th
lateral abstention by a pac*
Power in face of an aggr
one only encourages the latte
redouble its aggressive prcPJJ
tions and to steal marches upon
the opposite side. the
“As for the dozen men m


JJW/*" v.sv A S*
, YOUR 1
VERY GOOD
HEALTH
Toast your health
and, at the same time,
safeguard it with a
daily glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps. It cleanses
the kidneys, purifies the bloodstream and
tones up the system. So ... for your health’s
sake drink and enjoy a glass of
olfe s Schnapps every day.
WOLFE'S
’^flrumdUc
SCHNAPPS
WOLFES
mmm
hsarwr'
-*S-'9BA »«
until summer is nearly ever 9
and swelter day and night
INSULATE
your home NOW with
B.I.SLACWOOL
No house, home, ottice or building is modern and entirely
healthy unless It is insulated preferably wit A BJ.
SLAG WOOL. .
mb.
su
s
PTY., LTD.
-Phones: Sydney 8X5584, Melbourne
MU3506, Brisbane 83604, Adelaide C7~si,
Perth L 2107
BIG 18
r there is nothing in the
Kreffihn, [her tbe attitude
new bom towards the old.
which they ook the neW
So far as ca ” , ong run favor-
b°ms ls ß Ssia because it lessens
able to R°ssia, she may
th ff dIS from her shortage of
suffer o Ver, atomic war-
uranium- M 0 u be thoU ght
to e j n. self may W f or rea .
faV f a Firs because her people
son J S - f uries are scattered over
and industn other
vast* Sf/sh” offers the
grea /rnncentrated bombing tar-
l£f in the world. Secondly, be-
ge thrnush the Government s
cause through me and
rigid coi ld b p oSS ible for
ly «fl p P rove P !he bomb’s
*osl disabling consequence-a
" a^ws P ammcle” (Vernon
Bartlett): “Hydrogen bombs
li might devastate an area of
anything between 50 and 100
square miles, pilotless jet-
bombers that will fly to a given
target at the speed of sound, de-
vices to jam the radar-steering
system— which will be poor fun
for the neutrals to whose terri-
tory the bombers might thus be
diverted.”
Joseph and Stewart Alsop m
the N. Y. “Herald Tribune”:
“On the one hand it is intolerable
-because it means eventual sur-
render to the Soviet Union—to
let the Soviets build these bombs
while we do not. On the other
hand, it is equally intolerable
for these bombs to be competi-
tively manufactured by two hos-
tile world systems, thus menac-
ing all life on earth. All the
current political and strategic
assumptions are now about to be-
come obsolete, precisely because
they offer no escape from this
dilemma.”
N. Y. “Times”; “In nearly
four years we have made no
progress. Russia has succeeded
in producing an atomic explo-
sion of her own; we have ap-
parently demonstrated, in labora-
tory experiments, the feasibility
of an H-bomb; but we are no
nearer taming the monsters we
have created than we were in
June, 1946. The prospect is
horrifying. It moved Senator
McMahon, chairman of the
Joint Committee on Atomic
Energy, to propose ‘the immedi-
ate initiation of a moral crusade
for peace,’ in which he, for one,
was ready to have our Govern-
ment spend 10 billion dollars a
year for five years. He was not
dismissed as an idle dreamer—it
seems to be realised that the
choice now is between noble
dreams and ghastly nightmares
“We are compelled, in short
to accept the concept of a world
government in so far as atomic
weapons are concerned-or, m-
sQ far as any mamfesta-
tion of scientific war is con-
cerned.”
N . y. “Herald Tribune” edi-
toriai comment on basic facts
w hi c h must be recognised if any
agree ment is to be reached:
» An ex tremely important one
among them is the force' of
Amer i can conviction—the under-
-n conv j c tion of us all that we
ould prefer any horror of
atom j c extinction to slavery in
siberia . that we will accept any
riskor burc j en of an atomic arms
face before we acC ept sub-
jection to the irresponsible will
thg se if. a pp o inted demigods
- n thg Kremlinj an( j that we will
aC quiesce in no form of atomic
contro | whatever unless it pro-
yides a firm guarant ee against
j ts m i S use to such an end. This
a pos itive factor ; it would be
unwise if our emotional
anx i e ties for a settlement misled
Russ}ans as to its rea lity, and
R g rst f ac j; or which any
‘new inquiry' into the problem
must saCd-
, Equally, there are elements
m the Russian position which
are unchangeable. The Soviet
Union will not accept Western
or American dictation. The
Kremlin has to be convinced, or
it will remain immovable; and
the forces available to us to
carry conviction are unhappily
not numerous. We hoped
originally that the sheer horror
of uranium-bomb warfare would
do it. The hope was disap-
pointed: partly because the
Russians were nearer to achiev-
ing the bomb themselves than
we realised, partly because in a
uranium-bomb war we (and in
particular our allies) would be
at a disadvantage as against a
well-armed Soviet Union. In
his recent report to Stalin, Mr,
Vyshinsky used an interesting
phrase: Russia, he said, had ‘de-
valued’ the atomic bomb by pro-
ducing one of its own. The im-
plication is that the bomb has
ceased to be a major factor in
Soviet calculations. The produc-
tion of a hydrogen bomb of a
hundred times the uranium
bomb’s power might modify this
kind of reasoning, but as the
Russians can probably imitate
the hydrogen bomb, too, in time,
it seems fairly unlikely.”
Marshall Plan—
Half-way.
London “Economist’s” sum-
mary of the aims, and their
success or failure, of the
Marshall Plan as it stands at the
half-way mark:
Aims: (1) “To stave off com-
plete economic collapse and to
make good the dislocation of
war.” (2) “To restore balance
in world trade, and thus make
possible a return to freely-con-
vertible currencies and multi-
lateral trading.” (3) “To make
the Marshall Plan into an instru-
ment for bringing about the poli-
tical and economic integration
of Europe.”
The first: “An almost fan-
tastic success” —Western Europe
has surpassed by 15 per Cent,
pre-war industrial production
levels, and has all but reached
them in agriculture; investment
in capital goods has run at a
higher level than in 1938, and
seven billion dollars of this in-
vestment has been earmarked for
overseas dependencies ; the high
level of investment has not led
to continued or increased infla-
tion since 1947, and there is a
practically universal tendency
towards stable prices. “It can be
said with categorical emphasis
that, in this respect, the Marshall
Plan has succeeded beyond the
expectations of even its warmest
advocates.”
The second: Not so good—a
measure of progress, but short
of success. Under all favorable
conditions Western Europe will
still have a dollar deficit of a
billion dollars in 1952. “The
fundamental reason for this
prospective failure is the in-
adequacy of the Marshall Plan
as an instrument for solving the
general unbalance in world trade.
A five-year plan cannot undo the
work of decades. Every
economic trend in the last 30
years has tended towards the
aggravation of the dollar gap.”
The third: “Falls short of in-
tegration, but must the Marshall
Plan be condemned as a failure
on this last count? Surely only
those who believe in the possi-
bility of achieving full federal
union in 18 months will say so.
It is only by using such a fan-
tastic yardstick that anyone can
justify the accusation of failure.
If the more modest aim of poli-
tical consolidation is accepted,
then it should be remembered
that the period of the Marshall
Plan has also been that of the
Brussels Treaty, the Council of
Europe and the Atlantic Pact.
At any time before 1947 so
much progress would have
seemed little short of miraculous.
It may not be union, but it is
a degree of unity never achieved
in the Atlantic world before.”
Malaya.
Summing up the last 18 months
of the campaign against the
terrorists in Malaya, London
“Daily Telegraph” notes that
“the forces of law and order” —
some 10,000 soldiers and 45,000
regular and special police—have
been chasing “an elusive enemy
in most difficult country,” and
have inflicted 2000 casualties, ex-
cluding about 10,000 suspected
sympathisers who have been de-
ported and 5000 who have been
jailed. Casualties, including
civilians, at the hands of the
bandits have been about 2000.
“The end is not in sight,”
however, according to General
Sir John Harding, C.-in-C. of
Far East Land Forces: “It is not
possible to exterminate a plague
of mosquitoes or flies by swat-
ting them. You can reduce their
number that way, but the real
answer lies in destroying their
feeding- and breeding-grounds.
“What then is to be done?”
asks the “Manchester Guardian,”
pointing out that, although
Malayan rubber is a profitable
dollar-earner, the country could
become a drain if its military ex-
penditure increases. A possible
solution, the same paper suggests,
is the rounding-up of the bandits
by an expanded police force in-
stead of the Army—“ Military
drives are not the way to break
the link between the bandits and
their civilian backers. A police
force which knows the country
well and has sympathy with its
people can best conduct the
peculiar kind of political warfare
which seems to be needed,”
A note of urgency has been
given to the Malayan business by
developments to the north and
south. The country “still has to
feel the impact of two great poli-
tical revolutions: one, which
will affect the Chinese com-
munity, is the Communist victory
in China; the other, which will
affect the Malaya, is the birth
of Indonesia. It was curious
how little a stir there was in
Malaya on the day of the
transfer of power by the Dutch
in Indonesia ; but will Malaya
continue to be indifferent to what
happens in Jakarta?”
Dragnet Digest.
Rommel. - Field-Marshal Earl
Waved on the German general in
London “Sunday Times”: “Rommel
was a military phenomenon that can
occur only at rare intervals; men of
such bravery and daring can survive
only with exceptional fortune. He
was as brave on the battlefield as
Ney, with much better brains; as
dashing as Murat, with more balance;
as cool and quick a tactician as
Wellington. Whether he had the
breadth of vision to control the
higher fields of strategy is unproved,
and perhaps doubtful. But I believe
that anyone studying the facts in this
book [Rommel, by Desmond Young],
which seem well established, will
recognise him as a fine character and
great soldier.”
* * * *
Russian Slave Camps. —Basing its
findings on information garnered
from some of 4000 prisoners released
from Russian concentration camps at
Bautzen, Buchenwald and Sachsen-
hausen (originally Nazi establish-
ments), the “Manchester Guardian”
notes that “since the beginning of
1946 the Russians seem to have been
imposing sentences of 25 years’ im-
prisonment on people arrested for
‘political crimes.’ Trials and investi-
gations were carried out, preferably
at night, in the M.V.D. prisons in
Berlin, Brandenburg and Potsdam.
After ah interrogation which some-
times lasted for days prisoners were
told to sign a confession. Those who
duly ‘confessed’ to the ‘illegal posses-
sion of firearms’ or to ‘espionage’
were usually sentenced to death and,
at the same time, reprieved and sen-
tenced to 25 years’ hard labor
instead.”
* * * *
Middle East— St. Louis “Post
Despatch” on English-French wrang-
ling in the M.E.: “Behind this cloak-
and-dagger struggle between the
British and the French for influence
there lies, of course, the old story of
Middle Eastern oil. But with Britain
and France in economic trouble and
with Moscow always looming on the
horizon, it seems that these two ought
to stop rocking the boat on which
both may depend for survival. Surely
neither London nor Paris can afford
to play the old imperialist game at
the midpoint of this twentieth cen-
tury.”
* * * *
Indonesian Problem. —Efficient staff
will be one of the greatest problems
of the new Indonesian Government.
As London “Sunday Times” points
out, “when the Indians took over the
administration of India they found
.ready to their hands a machine
already staffed by Indians at all
levels, and, save at the highest levels,
almost entirely by them. That was
the British way, which went back to
the days of the East India Company.
The Dutch: system was quite different,
and at present the number of Indo-
nesians who combine Western educa-
tion with tried capacity in affairs is
extremely small. It may be a long
time before Indonesia has trained
personnel comparable to that of
India, Pakistan or Burma.”
* * * *
Italian Land Hunger. —“ Yorkshire
Post” on an old Italian problem:
“Far too much land is held by too
few people, leaving too little for the
rest. About 9,500,000 landholders
hold over 52,000,000 acres, but
19,000,000 acres of that is held by
46,000 private landowners —less than
one two-hundredth of all landholders.
The rest hold, on average, less than
four acres.” That distribution, the
“Post” considers, is all right where, as
in Britain, the landowners know their
business, but that is not the case
in Italy, where, particularly in the
south, too many landlords are
absentees who, provided they receive
their rents regularly, don’t care
greatly what happens to the soil.
* * * *
Russia and U.N.O. —Why, despite
all its abuse, criticism and stalling,
does Russia still cling to the United
Nations? London “Daily Express”
opinion is that Moscow regards
U.N. as a tremendous propaganda
medium, “a Heaven-sent instrument
by which they can disturb the other
nations, frighten them, keep them in
a state of turmoil, and induce them
to quarrel with one another. U.NiO.
is far too powerful a weapon for the
Russians to give up.”
* * * *
Japan and Cotton Goods.—Accord-
ing to the British Cotton Board’s
review world trade in cotton piece-
goods has risen to 80 per cent, of
the pre-war volume. The increase has
been “almost entirely due to an
enormous expansion in Japanese ex-
ports, which surpassed in volume
exports from the United States and
the United Kingdom for the same
quarter.” Jap. exports, according to
the “Manchester Guardian,” were
swollen by a big recovery in trade
with Indonesia and by a rise to the
highest figure so far recorded for any
quarter in shipments to the United
Kingdom.
* * * *
The Film’s the Thing. —London
“Daily Telegraph” nominates the late
William Shakspeare for a posthumous
award of one of Hollywood’s
“Oscars,” the grounds being that
Olivier’s filmed version of “Hamlet”
has turned out to be a substantial
dollar-earner. Its American box-
office takings are nearly £700,000 and
still rising.


LOOK YOUR best:
Froivi^
<w
Viewed from the front, side or
back, your Akubra always looks
smart and stylish.
Choose the colour, size and shape
to suit you and you will un-
doubtedly look better dressed.
YES, SIR! From any angle, Comfort—
Style Durability Superb Quality.
AKUBRA is ahead for all-round value.
AKUBRA
kafa QmM r /
NOW! PROOF that brushing teeth right
after eating is the safe, effective way to
HELP STOP
TOOTH DECAY
with New! Improved!
Colgate Dental Cream
No Other Dentifrice Offers
• Proof of These Results
Now dental science offers
proof that always using
Colgate Dental Cream right
after eating helps stop tooth
decay before it starts!
Continuous research hun-
dreds of case histories —makes
this the most important news
in dental history!
Tests were made in America
with 2 groups of college men
and women for over a year.
One group always brushed
their teeth with Colgate
Dental Cream right after eat-
ing. The other group fol-
lowed their usual Rental care.
The average of the group
using Colgate’s as directed
was a startling reduction in
number of cavities —far less
tooth decay! The other
group developed new
cavities at a much
New! Improved-
COLGATE DENTAL CREA*
Now Better Than
New delicious d ° u .£!, < t
flavour! New sparWing.Bn
white colour. N s oaP
polishing action!
less penetrating foa a i c are.
effective daily ,a e "^ a t using
goV-S? ’can ‘-‘“I
r p?„ h v‘e a -rtot&SS
decay with Colgate
Cream.
higher rate.
Family Economy 3/-
Giant 2/-
Large 1/3
1
&
C
AMERICA’S
LARGEST SELLING DENTAL CREAM
Always Use Colgate s to
, Clean Your Breath While
' You Clean Your Teeth—a n
HELP STOP TOOTH DECAYI
* Right after eating
Rough Chance.
“Many girls give their love to boys
who are' gamblers, but few realise the
grave risk they are taking in suppos-
ing that marriage will change their
characters.” — Women’s paper.
Sweet, I’m aware it’s very hard
To set your heart upon a
bloke
Who’ll stake his wages on a
card,
Or risk a fiver on a moke
Or dog. But, darling, here’s
the joke
(Though you won’t be amused,
I’ll bet)
According to the shrewdies, pet
(E’en though you think you’ll
turn his coat)
In granting him your fond
regard,
You’re. laying him the odds,
you goat!
P.O.M.C.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
The No. I Dink
for wise men
“Young lady, 18-21, or senior, re-
quired by local retail store. Some
knowledge of typing and bookkeeping
necessary, but man requirement pleas-
ing personality.” — Suburban paper.
Surely they’ve all got that.
•h 4*
“Fancy any man condemning
women for talking! Pass any hotel
at five o’clock and the din is deafen-
ing, all men’s voices.”
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
Admittedly a lot of shouting
goes on.
•h *l* 'l*
“Why do the hairs on the chin —
some fifteen years younger than those
on the head —become grey sooner?”
— Daily-paper correspondent.
Maybe because most of us
use our chins more than we do
our heads.
•I* -I*
“The woman chased the pressman,
tripped him, and sunk her teeth in
his leg.”— Melbourne daily.
Hard-bitten reporter.
“Roy Treasure was told he ‘would
be lucky to get to the stadium’ when
he refused a £5OO bride on Wednes-
day night.” —Melbourne “Age.”
Veiled threat?
“Vintage** car, 1909 Austin tourer,
reg., tyres near new, good mech.
order, sell or exch.” — “S.M.H.”
Apparently built in the time
of the British Empire.
+
“Racing through the shop he
found the back door open and
through it saw the intruder sealing
the fence of George Van’s.”
—Suburban paper.
Hoping to escape through a
trapdoor in the sealing, no
doubt.
More Cures For Pels.
It is not to be supposed that,
for those who go in for the
larger type of jungle animal as
a domestic pet, all ailment-treat-
ments are as simple as that for
a rhinoceros’s sunburn, dis-
cussed here last week. A test of
real skill comes when, say, your
pet elephant develops wax in the
ear.
Should you go out to let him
off the chain one morning and
find he has stamped a trench
about 3ft. deep in the back lawn
with a front paw and that he
hangs his head to one side after
shaking it vigorously, stopping
only to rub an ear against what
the day before was the upright
post of your clothes-line, you
may reasonably deduce that he
is troubled with wax in the ear.
Should you have previously
taken him for a frolic in the surf
this will add confirmation to the
diagnosis, the sand being almost
sure to have aggravated the con-
dition.
An easy way to make an ex-
amination is to get him to stand
against the fence. Then, armed
with a trouble-lamp, mount the
stepladder you will have propped
against your pet’s shoulder, pin
his ear back to his epidermis
with a few drawing- or panel-
pins and lower the globe down
into the lug. If the various
creases and convolutions frus-
trate a close examination you
will have to adopt an alterna-
tive method. Before you take a
look into the cavity, however,
take the precaution of posting
your wife at the bottom of the
ladder to break your fall in case
“ Must've slept in.”
you get vertigo and overbalance.
Next get a catapult and with
it fire a marble straight into
your elephant’s earhole. Should
it rebound straight out off the
drum you will know that wax is
not the trouble. In performing
this test, however, the prudent
amateur vet. will take care to
keep his head to one side, other-
wise the marble’s swift rebound
off a tight, wax-free drum may
result in a black eye for him.
Should you hear only the
sploshing sound as of the pro-
jectile being embedded in some-
thing soft you will know what
the trouble is and may proceed
to the treatment.
Here you have alternative
methods. The first is to use
peroxide of hydrogen. As about
a bucketful will be required,
this may prove somewhat ex-
pensive ; it is, however, the one
least fraught with risk, both for
you and your pet, and it will be
as well to try it first.
You will have to get the ele-
phant to lie on his side with the
affected ear up. If he cannot be
cajoled or threatened to con-
form with your orders, get your
wife to distract his attention
while you walk underneath him
and swiftly pull both legs on the
appropriate side from under
him, making sure, of course, that
you get off the mark speedily as
soon as you have done so.
Using a funnel, pour the
bucketful of peroxide into his
ear. About three seconds later
it will start to fizz —it is then
that you grasp the elephant’s
legs and turn him over on his
other side, thus facilitating the
frothing process. It is possible
that this frothing will cause a
tickling sensation. As an ele-
phant cannot exercise his risible
faculties vocally as can his
human friends, care should be
taken to have this operation per-
formed on a concrete pathway,
otherwise his shaking paroxysms
may put quite a dent in your
lawn.
Should the wax prove ob-
durate despite this treatment, the
blowing-out method will need to
be used. As the ordinary
medicinal syringe would be
about as effective on an ele-
phant’s ear as using an emery-
board to file a crocodile’s claws,
borrow a fire-hose. During this
operation it is best to have your
pet again on his feet. Mount
the ladder as before, but, though
you have the water-hydrant
turned on, keep the hose-nozzle
shut off until you have inserted
it in the ear until it is only a
foot or so off the drum, then
turn the nozzle full on, squirting
it in a circular motion.
If it is obvious that the wax and
water is going out of your pet’s
other ear instead of coming back
out of the ear you are hosing it
will be an indication that the
pressure is too severe, and you
will be well advised slightly to
impede the velocity. There is
the possibility to be foreseen,
however, that your two-ton pet,
suddenly hearing a roaring noise
in his head, will light out im-
mediately for the horizon. Pro-
vision should be made for this
contingency by having previously
affixed to the good ear a per-
suader such as the mahouts of
India use (a wharfie’s hook
would be suitable, as the handle
will afford you an excellent
grip). Thus, should your pet de-
. cide to bolt, this will enable you
—who would, of course
immediately transferred niS
from the ladder to his bactt
pull him up before he has go™
through no more than seven o
eight fences. 01
If you notice, while y ou ars
taking your pet hippopotami
for his evening constitutional
that his breathing is ge ttin’
stertorous or that his expressing
is more lugubrious than is it
wont, these may indicate that he
is troubled with excessive tartar
on his teeth. When you return
home examine his set of ivories
If he stubbornly refuses to open
his mouth read out to him one
of the usual daily news items
about the “war” the “Labor”
party is having with the Com-
munists. When the hippo, opens
his mouth to laugh push a stick
in vertically to keep it open and
you may proceed with your ex-
amination at leisure.
Select a tooth here and there
and hit it with a tuning-fork
If it yields only a dead sound
you will know that tartar is the
trouble.
A pneumatic-drill will loosen
the tartar sufficiently for it to be
trimmed off with cold-chisel and
hammer. Care must be taken
while using the drill, though, to
see the enamel isn’t chipped.
Final burnishing with coarse
sandpaper will bring 3 grateful
look from your pet. See that,
while you are having various
spells, you don’t carelessly leave
hammer or chisel or a roll of
sandpaper lying about inside the
hippo’s mouth, otherwise an in-
voluntary swallow by the animal
may see any or all of them dis-
appear down its gullet—and you
know how expensive tools are
these days. Watch, while re-
moving the bits of tartar later
with the vacuum-cleaner, you
don’t get the nozzle too close
to the animal’s tonsils, other-
wise the exacting task will be
yours of disentangling its tonsils
from the machine.
BO.


Established 1868
G ° ve ™ment. Municipal,
> n f' Ranking and Commercial
institutions throughout Australia
JA*JK.SO]y a
OSUIXIVAJ?
moo
M B
E • mark
Jackson & O’Sulliva
Ptv. UA.
Pty. Ltd,
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Tasafir—
AT SYDNEY. LONDON, NEW YO,
UT to?or 8 R S 4 OFFSET PRJNTEB
uthographic printers
typographers
**ONOTYPE and linotype
OPERATORS
t)lz sT?wp” Pm ENGRAVERS
P»r.T IPERS > EMBOSSERS
Envelope oo63B ENgrave ßs
Sn/ MANUFACTURER s
manufacturers
stereotypers
•W.ERS, BOOKBINDERS
COLD BLOCKERS
ARTISTS
Counsellors . REAtors an d
„ Sw E r usHEM
BT^-r CE *QtnPME»
PINGa and twines
*tz am ,f nd Ca U*s
SUL * Brisbane
wfpf&msA
#
-
w s**
4 9
-4
r
*
» .. -
/?
p
m
c »
sr'
o
r
U
&
*7)
sn. j^aS«
Sfe
S
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER— Brewed and bottled by . .««
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
SPORTING NOTIONS
your shout!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Oove^;^ ft 'S‘ d raS“«
«Tof mrtf thf Caulfield
run in c.akeif is nominally ot
Futunty weisht-for-age with penal-
standard weign „ but the sco pe
ties jj penalties and allowances
of , the fn a pretty wide departure
? ak£S the weigW-for-age scale. Some
from the w s . earned penal-
Futunty winners hav hers have
ties oi . Lances of up to 321 b.
received allow Futurity
with as httle Fdigh Caste and
mll ? h a he ?g 6 ’in the latter category.
Atlley 3 Lucknow took the rich
F.ve-year-old Wow but
JS ?ai 91 |..S r Eur|.hmic at the
same age, had to lump 10.7. _
Saturday’s 52nd running of the
Futurity brought together a field of
n 1 very well-performed customers,
S: With Ungar (10.6) at one end
and Star Port (8.12) at the oilier.
It looked a most open affair, but
EHerslie was singled out as a clear
favorite at 7 to 2 while 7 to 1 was
available against the most fancied of
the others, St. Razzle, Filipino, Iro
Duke and Achilles. In a race which
proved every bit as, good as the
hi K h,class field had promised, St.
Razzle won splendidly from San
Domenico and Beau Gem.
The pace in the early stages was
not as fast as might have been ex-
pected, which may have contributed
to the defeat of the favorite. The
speedy Star Port was the first to show
out, but Beau Gem moved up smartly
to take the lead approaching the
half-mile. It was still Beau Gem
as they turned for home. Shortly
after, St. Razzle, galloping beauti-
fully, swept up, easily gathered in
the leader, and, for a moment,
looked likely to win easily; however,
Beau Gem hung on well, and San
Domenico, after seeming for a while
to make no impression, suddenly un-
wound a thrilling burst over-the last
half-furlong to get to within a head of
St. Razzle. Beau Gem finished a
half-neck further back, while Ellerslie,
after looking unsettled most of the
trip, was just getting down to business
at the finish and ran fourth.
The placegetters were as close
together in the weights as they were
in the thrilling finish, St. Razzle
carrying 9.13, San Domenico 10.1
and Beau Gem lOst. At standard
weight-for-age St. Razzle would have
carried 8.12, San Domenico 8.11 and
Beau Gem 9.1, so it can be seen that,
without detracting from the winner’s
performance, there was much credit
m San Domenico’s effort. The
thumping weights he has been bur-
dened with throughout his career
have somewhat dimmed San
Domenico’s early brilliance, but he’s
still a mighty sprinter.
St. Razzle joins the very select
company of horses who have won
more than one Futurity Stakes,
foundation member of the club was
Gladsome, who scored in 1905 and
’O6; the only other is Ajax, who won
in 1938, ’39 and ’4O, carrying 9.6
as a three-year-old, 10.6 at four and
10.5 as a five-year-old. Trained by
S B. Ferguson for Mrs. L. R. Bux-
ton, and ridden on Saturday by L.
Lott, St. Razzle is a six-year-old bay
gelding by St. Magnus from Yilderim.
In different spheres, two good
treble performances were noted at
Caulfield. Jockey W. Williamson
rode three winners, which he has now
done four times from five successive
Saturdays. The odd feature of
Williamson’s effort is that prior to
the current outburst he had only ever
landed two trebles, both at -country
meetings. The other notable tripler
was credited to the sire St. Magnus,
sons of whom won three out of the
seven races and £3900 of the £9OOO
prizemoney distributed. The imported
St. Magnus, who has been most suc-
cessful at stud in Australia, with
winners of well over £lOO,OOO to his
credit, is a son of the English Derby
winner Sansovino and the One Thou-
sand Guineas winner Fair Isle, a
sister to the St. Leger winner Fair-
way.
Flying Halo (St. Magnus-Sweet
Trilby) was, at fours, the only runner
seriously backed to beat Mighty
Song in the £l5OO Merson Cooper
Stakes. A brilliant winner of the
A.J.C. Gimcrack Stakes and the
Maribyrnong Plate at her only two
previous starts, Mighty Song is a
filly not built on over-generous lines,
and she looked to have lightened-off
even more since she had last been
seen in public. Whatever the cause,
Mighty Song, who started an odds-on
favorite, at no stage flattered her
supporters. Flying Halo (W. William-
son) won comfortably, but Matter-
horn, Slick Chick and Aldershot had
a great battle for the minor money,
the camera, however, splitting them
into that order. Apart from con-
siderations of her condition, or how
she may have been unsuited by being
ridden from behind, Mighty Song was
beaten by some pretty good young-
sters in top condition from recent
racing. Flying Halo has scored three
wins and two seconds from five
starts, Slick Chick has had three wins
and a third, also from five starts, and
Matterhorn has shown much promise.
A third winner for St. Magnus,
and Williamson, was the four-year-old
Gay Saint (out of Gay Memories),
who turned in a fine display of sprint-
ing to win the 6-furlongs Hawksburn
Handicap. The Sydney visitor High
Jip, who was present observer’s Oak-
leigh Plate fancy, had the Hawksburn
won at every point except the one
that courited; Gay Saint came home
at a terrific bat to down High Jip
by a length, and cut out the journey
in a smart I.lo*. Both winner and
runner-up ran fair Newmarket trials.
After an inquiry, last week, into
the running of Eucardius at Caulfield
the previous Saturday, stewards ac-
cepted explanations all round, but
rider R. Hutchinson was not
on the neddy last weekend.
W. Williamson was on Eucar-
dius in Saturday’s Woodcliff Handi-
cap (12f.), and, after again starting
favorite, Eucardius again finished out
of a place; the pattern of that story
must be nearly as old as racing. The
Mr. Standfast gelding Hoyle (W.
Fellows) won the Woodcliff, but had
to survive both the camera and a
protest before being given the ver-
dict over Blank Music.
* * * «
Glancing back through Bulletin
files of just 10 years ago we note
that this page was moved to speak
in praise of a prizemoney distribution
of £l9OO for a Saturday meeting at
Moorefield; admittedly it was a spe-
cial occasion, with the Peter Moore
Cup the principal event. The total
of prizemoney and sweepstakes dis-
tributed at Saturday’s very ordinary
meeting on the same course was
£5663. Such an increase in prize-
money, of course, makes for better
racing, but unfortunately the vastly-
increased attendances which make
the big prizemoney possible do not
make for the comfort of racegoing.
It was pleasant to watch racing in
the perfect little natural amphitheatre
of Moorefield in pre-war days, but
it is no place to find oneself one
among 20,000-odd.
Star turn of Saturday’s meeting, in
more ways than one, was the Flying
Handicap. Preluded by some hours
of fearfully sticky heat, the grand-
father of all thunderstorms cut loose
as the runners were making their way
to the post. The horses were held at
the start for some 10 minutes until
the hail at least, had eased up a bit,
after which, unheralded and unsung
by the course broadcaster, they were
sent on their way. A fair part of the
crowd was not even aware that the
race had been run, and those who
did watch it saw very little. How-
ever, old Brazier, veteran of many
victories on the tricky little circuit,
emerged from the gloom to win
narrowly from Bungyman and Per-
sian Prince. It brought ten-year-old
Brazier’s score to the even 20 wins.
Giving some notion of the condi-
tiqns, Brazier took 1.18 to cut out
the 6-furlongs trip. Prior to the
deluge the Harinero filly Carriole (A.
Markland) had run the same distance
in l-15i in winning the first Welter
Handicap. Carriole had previously
s “°wn herself partial to MoorefieltTs
oddities, as had the Beaupartir gelding
My Request (M. Maynard), a good,
if narrow, winner of the mile Moore-
field Handicap.
The Beau Son colt Oversight (F.
Hickey), making his first public ap-
pearance in the Two-year-old Handi-
cap, proved aptly named. A good
effort on his behalf in wipning a
barrier trial earlier in the week
seemed to be overlooked by connec-
tions as well as the run of punters.
Oversight won the Two-year-old
handily, starting at 33 to 1 with the
books and paying 70 to 1 on the
tote.
* * * ♦
After San Domenico’s fast-finishing
second in Saturday’s Futurity Stakes,
owner R. P. Formosa, who seems
always available to the Press, an-
nounced that* the Hua gelding is to
be set for the Doncaster. Well, good
luck to him; he’s a good horse, and
he’ll certainly need to be. Without
comment, the position is that San
Domenico has never tackled a mile,
and has been beaten more often than
not at 7 furlongs. Yet, in the Don-
“Play a slow Waltz, Knocker—I'm getting tired."
caster, he has been given equal top-
weight ©f 9.10 and asked to concede
71b. to the Epsom winner De La
Salle, 81b. to the Doncaster winner
Bernbrook, 101 b. to the last Epsom
winner Denali, and 181 b. to Blue
Legend, who has won two Doncasters
and an Epsom, apart from spotting
61b. to Phoibos, whom present ob-
server regards as one of the most
brilliant nailers racing.
* * * *
For Randwkk (before accept-
ances) :
Two-year-old Encourage; Country
Lane, 1; Vien Court, 2; Lady
Rosetta, 3. Three-year-old Handi-
cap : Dona Marcheta, 1; Pantomime,
2; Elusive, 3. March Nursery: Le
Dauphin, 1; Rumyle, 2; Even Flow,
3. March Encourage: Annabel Lee,
1; Hughenden, 2; Peace Treaty, 3.
Denham Court Handicap: Count
Aulone, 1; Wattle, 2; King’s Coin, 3.
Warwick March Handicap: Karachi,
1; Indian Chief, 2; Hurry Up, 3.
Edensor Park Handicap: Bold
Archer, 1; Wiranya, 2; Fra Diavolo,
For the Newmarket: Beau Gem,
1; De La Salle, 2; San Domenico, 3.
For the Australian Cup: Latanx, 1;
Bruin, 2; Sanctus, 3.
* * * *
Reported from S’Afriea last week
that Australian skipper Lindsay Has-
sett was to be dry-docked for a spot
of de-tonsilising immediately after
the Fifth Test. The first couple of
days of the final Test, opened at
Port Elizabeth on Friday, had the
S’Africans fervently wishing that
Hassett’s case had been a sight more
urgent.
The coin Hassett uses for the toss
must be a square one with heads all
round. Winning yet again, and of
course electing to bat, Hassett’s men
quickly settled in to give the South
Africans a heartbreaking session of
leather-chasing. The dismissal of the
stolid Moroney for a mere seven and
of Miller for 22 aroused some hopes,
but these were quickly dashed as
-Morris and Neil Harvey got down
to business. At the end of the first
day, with Morris gone at 157 and
Harvey,at 116, Australia had 380 on
the board for the loss of four wickets,
and Hassett and Loston looked as
safe as houses. On the morrow, after
himself notching up topscere of 167,
Hassett applied a merciful closure,
with seven wickets down for 549.
What hopes the South Africans may
have still retained at that stage Keith
Miller proceeded to disperse, pro-
ducing his best bowling of the tour
to bag three for 33, and S’Africa had
lost seven for 104 at stumps on
Saturday.
In preliminary matches leading up
to the firsUTest, which is to be played
at Dunedin on March 17, 18 and 20,
the Australian cricketers in New Zea-
land have been having almost as
easy a time as their confreres in
S’Africa. Victims last week were
Taranaki (at New Plymouth), Wan-
ganui, and Canterbury (at Christ-
church). The Taranaki team was
blitzed to the tune of an innings and
113 runs, Australia scoring 335 and
dismissing the opposition for 99 and
123. At Wanganui it was Australia
by an innings and 111 runs, Wanganui
being skittled for 97 and 84 after
Bill Brown’s boys had knocked up
292. Canterbury proved a somewhat
tougher proposition, and the tourists
might have been in serious strife but
for the splendid all-round perform-
ance of Len Johnson. After Canter-
bury had scored 143 in the first
innings the Australian batsmen were
making very heavy weather of it until
Johnson came to light with a bar-
rage of fours and sixers to contribute
topscore of 61 to his side’s total of
210. Johnson then weighed in with
some equally hearty bowling, to bag
five for 22; the Canterbury men were
all out for 96, and openers Meuleman
and Burke easily knocked up the
necessary for Australia’s, outright
win.
* * * *
Australian swimmer John Marshall,
doing a course at America’s Yale
University and betimes getting the
benefit of high-pressure American
coaching and training methods, is
writing a string of new figures in
the record books. In December,
Marshall was a member of a
team which set a world record for
800 metres. In February, paddling
his own canoe, as it were, he set new
world figures for 300yds., 300 metres
and 440yds. Last week Marshall
clocked 2min. 7sec. to better the
world 220yds. record, covered 440yds.
in 4min. 35.65ec. to clip one second
off his own world record, and
equalled the Japanese-held record of
4min. 33.35ec. for 400”metres.
* * * *
With various interests pushing
claims which range from the necessary
to the nebulous, there should be a
first-class free-for-all in Melbourne
today when the Olympic Games sites
sub-committee meets to decide on the
site for the 1956 Melbourne Olympic
Games. Melbourne Cricket Ground
trustees and club members have been
invited, and are, of course, strongly
favored to win the event.
* * * ♦
So far, 100 pros and 32 amateurs
(they are “guest” amateurs of the
P.G.A.) have entered for the
McWilliams Wines £2500 golf tourna-
ment at the Australian Club course
(Sydney) on March 23-25. Together
with Dai Rees of Britain and R. H.
Gladin (pro,), A. Murray (pro.) and
D. L. Woon (amateur) of New Zea-
land, all Australian States except
W.A. are represented, by far the most
from N.S.W.
* * * *
A surf-boat crew from Sydney’s
North Bondi club is doing what turf-
ites would term an “old-fashioned
preparation” for the Australian surf
championships set down for Brisbane
at Easter. The Bondi lads are rowing
their boat the roughly-600 miles to
Brisbane for the carnival.
* * * ♦
Boxing in Siam being conducted
on a boots-and-all basis, it is scarcely
surprising that pugs from that region
do not particularly shine when confined
to Marquess of Queensberry rules.
The meeting of Australian bantam
champion Elley Bennett and Siamese
Chai Sitphol at Sydney Stadium last
week ndver looked like a fight, nor
would it had Chai been allowed to
use his hoofs as well. Bennett showed
noble restraint for a few rounds, but
threw a couple of serious punches in
the fourth, and the ref. decided that
the Sitphol had had enough.


TODAY
A* m ffREAT-
PXAMPFATHER'S
pay/
Today swift freight
’planes replace the sail-
ing vessels of yesteryear
in the transport of stijd
stock—just one of the
great changes in which
A.M.L.&F. has partici-
pated during 87 years’
service to the Man on
the Land.
lf?|l \\
' ' ! ,!U.J.
Ji
AMLI
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE, UNO & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney, and at
i Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches: N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Young, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina, Oooma and Deniliquin.
Q’land: Townsville, Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi,
associate agents McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and
Pittsworth, Yeates Bros. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, H. P. Veness & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Winton. Vic.: Wodonga, Korumburra.
• VI
For inflamed Eyes‘and Eyelidc
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A.Rose & Co.Pty. Ltd-King St. Sydney
The Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.
Presents the 1950
ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
APRIL Ist to APRIL 12th
10 DAYS—B NIGHTS
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs,
Horses, Fruit and Vegetable Growing, the Apia y
and General Farm Activity.
PRICE: 1/- per copy
Published by I>e Bulletin Newspaper Co. Fty.
252 George Street, Sydney.
Ltd.,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fat Lambs in Victoria.
“Rooster”: Investigations at
Rutherglen Research Station by
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture sought to discover which
of the 'various types of ewes
make the best dams for fat
lambs, and to which breed of
ram they should be mated. The
problem is necessarily influenced
by pasture maintenance and im-
provement. It was found that
on improved top-dressed pas-
tures in areas where an average
annual rainfall of 25in. is
recorded fat lambs are more
profitable than woolgrowing
alone. Consideration was given
to the stock-feed ratio. At
Rutherglen it was practicable to
carry, through the winter and
early-spring months, two large-
framed ewes and their lambs
per acre of improved pasture.
This left sufficient feed to carry
the ewes and unsold lambs
through the summer-autumn
period.
A joint experiment by N.S.W.
and Victorian Departments of
Agriculture in 1941 was in the
nature of a mass trial. A line of
2100 Merino ewes was mated in
three equal groups to Border
Leicester, Romney Marsh and
Corriedale rams. Not yet com-
pleted, they have already shown
that the earlier tests gave a cor-
rect analysis—best tombs com-
ing from the Border-Leicester-
cross ewes, with little to choose
between the others. The Dorset
Horn-Merino, a newly-intro-
duced cross, produces lambs
comparable with those of the
Border Leicester cross, but falls
down on wool-growth, the fleece
being lighter and of lower value.
Market fluctuations for wool
and meat since 1946 have made
it difficult to select the breed
most profitable. At existing
price - levels the B.L. and
Corriedale crosses are about at
par. Best rams for the Ruther-
glen district are Border Leicester
and Southdown. The latter are
coming very much into favor;
the lambs are of consistently
high quality, and, upder adverse
feed conditions, are less affected
than the Border Leicester. The
Southdown produces superior
quality export carcasses, but the
strain is not so strong as the
Border Leicester, the average
percentage of cross - lambs
graded as “Downs” being only
60 per cent.
Don’t Blame the Drench.
“Murrawong”: Worm-infesta-
tion of sheep varies according
to seasons. It is chronic in
coastal, tableland and slopes
districts, and breeders there
drench regularly and know the
symptoms of various internal
parasitic diseases.
Borderline and drier areas—
mistakenly called “the safe
country”—are in a different cate-
gory. In a wet year sheep losses
are often greater than in the
recognised wprmy country.
These districts include central
and western Queensland, western
N.S.W. and the Riverina, where
at present, following the prolific
season, worms are a headache to
graziers; the worst is yet to
come.
In these areas worms have
caused heavy losses for genera-
tions, but because sheepmen
couldn’t or wouldn’t admit their
presence, the blame was laid on
blowflies, which, of course, were
attracted to affected sheep whose
power of resistance was already
undermined and who died in
record time and record numbers.
Rank feed, lacking nutrition, is
also blamed. In most cases the
unseen, unrealised factor was
worms.
Apparently sufficient worms
survive dry seasons, and when
the lush season arrives infesta-
tion of large numbers of sheep
is rapid and widespread. From
the time they are picked up by
the sheep most types of worms
are fit to start breeding in three
weeks. One female stomach-
worm lays 5000 eggs a day.
Even if only 1 per cent, of its
eggs picked up it takes only
three or four periods of three
weeks’ suitable, weather to give
each sheep a staggering burden
of thousands of worms. It may
take eight or nine months of
favorable weather to cause epi-
demic conditions, starting from
scratch. That is why, in some
of these drier areas, it is be-
lieved that it takes two consecu-
tive wet summers to produce
worm danger.
Well, worm-infestation is
pretty bad throughout Australia
today. Breeders in wormy coun-
try know that the only way to
beat worms is by preventive
measures and good feeding.
Preventive measures include (1)
spelling paddocks for long
enough to let worm eggs die and
moving breeders and young
sheep on to fresh pasture as
often as practicable, (2) using
the right type of drench at the
right time. You can drench by
the calendar to a certain extent,
but drenching by the weather is
essential. If you want best re*
suits you must know what par-
ticular parasites are doing the
damage, and you must choose
the correct drench for them.
Stockowners who will call in
a vet. to attend to a valuable
horse or bull often will lose 50
sheep and be faced with the loss
of hundreds before they get the
vet. or stock-inspector. Even if
it costs £2O to get him he will
save many times that amount in
sheep saved by a correct diag-
nosis and first-hand professional
advice in treatment, to say noth-
ing of the money saved in buy-
ing the correct type of drench.
The price of a drench has no
relation to its efficiency. Costs
may vary from id. to Is. per
head-even at the highest price
it would still be worth while
even if sheep were only a
quarter of their present value.
When worm-infestation is light
almost any drench will give some
result. When the serious stage is
reached no single dose of any
“If it cuts a hair it's sharp all right!”
drench will give results. That is
what sheepmen are up against
today, and few of them under-
stand it.
Those who have drenched
regularly are enjoying the full
benefits of a good season. Those
drenching for the first time or
after too long an interval are
still losing sheep and blaming
the drench.
Rabbit-control.
“C.S.”: Myxomatosis, a virus
disease fatal to rabbits, is being
used in new experiments by the
C.5.1.R.0., in collaboration with
State departments.
Earlier trials showed that
although the disease can, under
some circumstances, exterminate
rabbits in the warrens into which
it is introduced, it does not
spread. Hence it would no.t be
of any practical value in coun-
try where holdings and pad-
docks are large and where the
power of the infection to spread
in epidemic form is all im-
portant.
At the present, however,
manpower and other shortages
are preventing graziers from
adopting control measures, and
on small properties an infection
which generally remained con-
fined to the warrens into which
it had been introduced might
prq»ve of some value. Provided
that it wiped out the rabbits
with less labor than a fumigant
such as chloropicrin, it could be
worth using.
First experiment will be con-
ducted in northern Victoria
with the approval of the Minister
for Vermin and Noxious Weeds
and of the Veterinary Research
Institute, University of Mel-
bourne.
Linseed Pays Well.
“He-Ne”: Farmers who grew
linseed last year are now receiv-
ing large and welcome cheques.
A Pallamallawa (N.S.W.) man
got £12,000 for his 320 acres,
about twice what he could pos-
sibly have got from a similar
area of wheat. Highest yielding
linseed crop last season was that
of the Coshes (father and son),
winners of the N.S.W. R.A.S.
linseed - growing championship.
Their crop yielded 25.84 bushels
per acre, and at present prices
this would be worth more than
£4O per acre.
N.S.W. linseed yields last
season were better than in
1948-49 in spite of the wide-
spread infection of pasmo. Crops
did better in this State than in
Queensland.
Burr-control.
“Atlanta”: The Queensland
Lands Department’s campaign
against Bathurst and Noogoora
burr has had gratifying results.
Despite a short burr-growing
season, due to late rains, and de-
lays caused by floods, burr
crops in the north- and central-
west were effectively controlled.
Solution strength for destruction
of burrs, mint-weed and weir
vine is 0.1 per cent. Hormone
weedicides, available at cost
price and freight-free to the
nearest railway-siding, are cur-
rently selling at 1 Is. 3d. per gal-
lon for 10 per cent, concentra-
tion (Igal. to 100 of water) and
60s. to 61s. per gallon for 50
per cent, concentration (Igal. to
500 of water). Knapsack sprays
are suitable for small areas or
scattered patches of burr, but
for larger areas a power-unit is
required.
Since it is impracticable to in-
clude sufficient coloring matter
in the spray to show up on the
leaves, spraying must be done
systematically. All foliage must
be thoroughly wet, but don’t
spray after rain, and in hot, dry
conditions spray before 10 a.m.
and after 4 p.m. to avoid rapid
evaporation.
Usually plants do not die
until 10 days to three weeks
after treatment, but leaves begin
to droop within a few hours.
Increasing the solution strength
to S ,he°co!t Ct ° lher thaD addi "8
Strawberry Plans
Derwent”: Tasmania i s to
process strawberries for use (as
pulp) in ice-cream and other deli
cacies, and as whole fruit fZ
table use. The Department
Agriculture is arranging tn
grow and supply virus-free plants
through the Dewcrisp factory !
Scottsdale, which is making
year contracts with growers For
100 tons of fruit is needed
380,000 plants covering 40
acres ; and as the average small
farmer could work at least five
acres in conjunction with his
other pursuits, it is estimated
that he could make a gross re-
turn of £l5OO a year from straw-
berries.
Grey soil is suitable for
strawberry culture, and there is
plenty of it in the district. The
co. is also arranging to have
500 acres (later to be increased
to 2000) put under peas; 500
acres on a normal year’s’ pro-
duction would return 1,000,000
16oz. cans of peas. The market
for peas is almost unlimited
India and the Far East being
particularly good. Tasmania
produces 60 per cent, of the field
peas of Australia, a proof of the
suitability of local conditions for
pea-canning.
Beating Soursob.
“Needle Ned”: The persistent
soursob which grows extensively
in parts of S.A. and Victoria is
poisonous to stock but rarely
eaten sufficiently for fatal re-
sults. It impoverishes land, re-
tards growth of crops and
spreads quickly. As plants are
of soft texture, weak chemical
sprays (2|- p.c. solution of
sodium chlorate) which would
not harm adjacent grasses, etc.,
are effective in small areas but
too costly for large agricultural
areas,
Encouraging experiments have
been conducted at Roseworthy
Agricultural College (S.A.) after
noting the sob’s tendency to
smother crops whose early
growth coincides with the vigor-
ous growing of the sob. A
vigorous type of wheat (Ford)
was sown early, after an April
rain, in a paddock known to be
badly affected —it overcame the
weed and produced a normal
crop.
In another crop, sown June
10 after three cultivations, the
wheat crop flourished to such
an extent that only a few weak
plants of the weed were evi-
dent at harvest. Another
method of control, used by
farmers in the Gawler River
(S.A.) area, is to cultivate when
the soursob tubers are well de-
veloped and turn pigs or turkeys
into the paddock.
Early-maturing Canes.
“Beroo”: Although new can o
varieties such as Trojan, Q2B,
Q. 50 and C.P.29/116 have given
yields usually much superior to
the canes they have displaced,


fhetfofMs
rnmcms
RUN
BITTER
fs
p
MP
M§
: 1
m
trade mark
FACTORIES: FELTH AM, ENG.;
TOLEDO < DU; WINDSOR, CAN.
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT A
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO AIT,,
l pe?ib. “***&
SSpSJ ™»CCO E S?e B .
-t«e leaf/ 2 $ tl “ r
«Ssf • s r“‘C. l " /»■ ion a
u*' to! C «fc Order Dap.
Hillman Trading Co.
Commercial R„ ad , Brictanc
—To Ca nn Witk order ‘
extra n „ n» ra ordflrj _
The strongest
griader discs—
ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth
-recommended for shearing-shed work.
th to
1
4oz m Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes .. . Hardware and general stores.
ilpfill
i ti
,
? 1??
. .
iiiiiti.
■
■ ;• ■•• ■ . .
■* * - s 4 •• .
. vV ;;
'•
’Cetey.O'.
- * '
- A. S&,
m
3L -
■
mmm
mt-m ml&Smsm!
Hi
KL2I9
LOWEST RUNNING COSTS
OF ANY TRACTOR MADE
Any Lanz or K.L. Bulldog Crude Oil Tractor
owner will tell you how easy it is to save up
to £l5O per year on low cost crude oil oper-
ation. He’ll tell you, too, that the sheer
simplicity of Bulldogs’ single cylinder slow
speed engines, with only 8 main moving parts,
drastically reduce wear and maintenance-
cut repair bills to a fraction those of compli.
cated tractor engines. So, if you area medium
power user, start enjoying the wonderful
money saving advantages of this 30 H.P.
LANZ Crude Oil Mod.el—ready for delivery
to your property NOW.
&EE your L
BULLDOG Agent or:—
LANZ & K.L.
30,40 & 45fi,p, Models
State Distributorst
N.S.W., Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young St., Sydney, VICTORIA
IC.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 304 Spencer St., Melbourne. SOUTH AUS-
TRALIA, Elder, Smith & Co. Limited, 27-31 Currie St., Adelaide. WEST
AUSTRALIA, Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. Ltd., 349 William St., Perth.
TASMANIA, K. L. Distributors Pty. Ltd., 233 Elizabeth St.. Hobart.
QUEENSLAND, K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 121 Brunswick St., Valley,
Brisbane.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
known'^fh!^ 2 otiler Products are
as f U i h Commonwealth
„ as 01 th e highest standard.
look for Our MARKER in
every Roll 0 f N eU i ng ,
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
tarn
, : : >> w
M
m
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Ply,, Ltd
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
LYSAGHT’S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING
C,
f matures until rnid-
none of the ™ xh j s is not a
season or • occurs in a
bad fault in a particular dis-
single variety P Qblems arise
when canes are
lat S tU haTe to start with low
Wt es and consequent trouble
P factory, and the growers
m fe d s because the Jar-
-8 fn? costs represent an unduly
Sr P roPortion of the return
the unripe cane, and it
hurts P harvest cane which they
know * will in three or four
Months give as many more units
f ees Early-maturing canes
1 harvest early in the season
( re thus a necessity m every dis-
rict The requirements are ex-
acting'the canes must be mature
early in the season, not merely
eive a fair early sugar, they
must ratoon when cut in the
cool months, they must yield
satisfactorily, and if not cut
early they must retain their
c.c.s. for some time.
The older varieties, 8.208,
H.Q.426, Korpi, Oramboo and
5.J.2, a?e true early-maturers,
and Comus is a newer cane of
the same sort, but the yields of
these canes are not up to those
obtained from the later-maturing
varieties, and they are not
generally favored. Queensland
cane-breeders are tackling the
problem, and already it has been
found that certain varieties will
impart early maturity to their
seedlings. There is hope, too, in
the use of wild canes from New
Guinea and a thin, wild cane
from Turkestan, near the
Caspian Sea. This flowers in
January in Queensland, months
before any other variety, and
tests of its progeny indicate that
it may pass on its earliness and
perhaps its frost-resistance.
Hints for the Farm.
“Baringa”: Forests of euca-
lypts and pine are possible in
nature because other shrubs
and trees resent the acid they
produce in the soil and keep
away. Where leaf-mould is
freely used as a mulch and for
humus in the garden it may ac-
count for mysterious reactions
in plants which should be doing
well. Heavy droppings of leaves
and needles from gum and pine
are a temptation to the gardener,
but they should be burnt be-
fore being applied as mulch.
“C.A.A.”: As well as provid-
ing summer feed for stock a
lucerne stand is an effective pro-
tection from fire for baled hay.
Stack in the centre of the patch
to give protection on all sides.
“Sundowner”: Weaning is
the most important time for
drenching against worms, and is
especially necessary in wet sum-
mers. Give a full dose of 20
grammes of phenothiazine.
Where fattening crops aren’t
available draft drenched lambs
into clean paddocks. Hay or
silage is an excellent feed.
“Sarina”: Stones dug out of
paddocks will do much to stop
erosion if they’re piled up to
heighten the banks of small
gullies or drains. Big stones
placed in a row across the lower
end of a field where soil is wash-
ing out on to the headland will
stop the silt. Small, longish
stones (which may be colored)
are good for edging flower-beds;
they prevent the soil from
washing.
“W. Court”: Metal articles
may be protected from rust
with this easily-made paint;
Dissolve loz. of sulphur-flowers
in 9oz. of turpentine by stand-
ing the vessel in a second vessel
containing nearly boiling water.
Next add soz. of good-quality
linseed-oil varnish. The paint
may be colored by mixing zinc-
white, lamp-black or some other
pigment with a small amount of
the paint and then pouring the
lot together and mixing.
“Menura”: Believed to be the
first in Australia an experimental
crop of rape kale, a fixed hybrid,
has been successfully grown at
Smithfield (S.A.). Seed from the
plot planted after November
rains was nearly 6in. high
in December. The parent
crop, covering a quarter-
acre, was grown frbm 4oz. of
seed. On the same property
rape has been used as a summer
and autumn fodder crop for
years, and has fattened 10 sheep
to the acre under controlled
grazing. Rape kale is expected
to improve this figure because it
gives more leaf.
“Big Billy”: When moving
high machinery be careful that
it does not contact electric-lines.
Before moving a stacker lower
the jib, and similarly with the
upper projecting part of any
farm implement. When repair-
ing buildings at a point near
electric wires take all precautions
to see that power is cut off.
“Sundowner”: When working
in the apiary never open or
examine a hive on cold, windy
days ; don’t disturb bees unneces-
sarily ; always be properly
attired.


£M¥im
17-jewelled Swiss
Masterpieces
m
with
NON-MAGNETIC ESCAPEMENT
lAVINA
WATCHES
l, Founded in 1852-vi)\e ret, Sulssa
LW2
3
JACK
\RTS
Circular Charts for all typo*
of Recording Initrwmtnti
tor «nf cl bum of
or Equipment
METER CHARTS • Special*?
fyo’sutimNfci*
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
LUDOWICI
INDUSTRIAL
PACKINGS &
JOINTINGS
f7o facilitate ordering, J. C. & LTD.
will gladly supply on request a specification sheet that
covers every vital factor to ensure satisfactory service
in the application of all types of Packings. It’s a free
J.C.L. Technical Service write for your copy to-day!
S ,«IHETIC
ROBBER
(St
TOs
* //,
C °Mp osir
yttrn nU CJ Tl
oh
Ludowici’s range of Industrial Packings and Jointings
now covers Industry’s full requirements. In addition
to our universally recognised line of Leather Packings
for hydraulic and pneumatic applications, we maintain
a complete range of high and low pressure steam pack-
ings and jointings in both Australian and imported
brands.
We also supply a full range of rubber and synthetic
rubber, packings, gaskets, dust excluders and the
approved Flu-Seal oil and grease retainers.
df
J. C. LUDOWia & SOM STD.,
117 YORK ST., SYDNEY. BX 5841. 20-28 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE. MX 3101-3.
Leather Belting • Rubber Belting • Conveyor and Elevator Belting • Round Leather Belting • Textile Leathers •
Belting Accessories • Leather Packings • High-Speed Grinder Belts • V Belt Drives • Industrial Clutches • Plain
Bearings • Anti-Friction Bearings • Steel Shafting • Shafting Couplings • Shafting. Hangers? • Microid Bearing Metals
• Porous Bronze Bushes • Sears • Pulleys • Wall Brackets • Variable-Speed Drives • Ludowici Pivot Drive •
Fla-Seal Oil Retainers • Composition Packings • Lute* Industrial Plastics • Industrial Gloves • Rubber Hose •
Lemcol High Quality Trucks, Wheels. Castors, etc.
sdfsdf
blotch.
SKIN
quickly cleared 2
Cuticura Ointment
sures skin health.
keep a tin of Coticu«o»
ment in the house.
cuts, bruises and ■««L Bra
of the famous tno- c “° a <j
Ointment. Soap a 3
Talcum Powder. -
HP
door to make sure that she was
on the job again.
She heard an insistent, peremp-
tory rapping on the counter and
looked up to see Mrs. Thomas,
the doctor’s wife, waiting to be
•served. Her anger rose quickly
at the woman’s impatience;
treating her like a hired girl, a
counter-hand. She had a better
education than Mrs. Thomas,
and probably Edwin had more
money than the doctor. Or did
he? Mrs. Gunn kept a tight grip
on the money. Even after years
here Jean couldn’t say just how
much Edwin owned or how
much belonged to his mother.
They never let her know, never
treated her as a member of the
family.
Perhaps, too, Mrs. Thomas
was right in treating her like a
servant; that was the way Mrs.
Gunn regarded her, and Edwin,
too, of late.
She served Mrs. Thomas,
agreed with her about the heat
and the dry spell, and then
added in as offhand a manner as
she could, “Yes, it will be
pleasant to get down to the city.
Oh, yes, we intend to stay down
for a month.”
“And how about the store
while you are both away?”
She closed her lips tightly
against the angry retort that
came to her mind. Then, speak-
ing rather more quickly than was
natural to her, she replied, “Mrs.
Gunn and Alice can manage all
right. They’ve managed before.”
“Not since you came to live
here, though,” Mrs. Thomas said
as she left the building.
As the afternoon wore on she
kept watching the clock above
the office, and the road that ran
out of the town for a few
hundred yards and then curved
round the ridge towards Brown-
hill. She expected Edwin home
at about four o’clock. Then
they could leave soon after six
and have dinner on the way
down.
Mrs. Gunn had kept out of
her way since their argument of
yesterday. Generally the old
=0„ b Te U a gh aJ but
that time approached she saw
her go through the front gate
and start walking briskly away
along the road.
“There goes Mrs. Gunn,”
Alice said. “I wouldn’t be keen
to go walking in this heat.”
“I suppose we’ll have to make
our own tea this afternoon,
Alice,” she said. “We’ll wait till
about four and then Mr. Edwin
might be here, too.”
HP HE heat seemed to press
* down on the store, and surge
slowly and oppressively through
doors and windows. Only
the thought that she was getting
out of the place tonight kept
Jjj*
l oi | the kettle* she saw a car
d „ nf i * „ r i
. Jr® . ct
J
“
f ®}®
color of .-T ,-I*
an > b ® s ‘ de h !f
°P^ e h th ® a meacross^ndkiSed
£* or ® SnStSThIfES
,¥ rs> Gum J slipped by them
? nd disappeared inside the build-
mS; , , . .
+ She walked out past the bend
to ™ e€t me > ne said -
At . once she was on her guard,
worried “On an afternoon like
Oh, she had some news for
me. Some good news, and I
suppose she was anxious to tell
m „. . f u-
His manner, the tone of his
voice, gave her the impression
that he was withholding some-
thing. She wondered for a
moment whether he and ms
mother had combined against
her.
“Well, I suppose you can tell
me what the good news is, ’ she
said, “unless you want to keep it
till we are on our way to the
city.”
She saw him looking past her
at his mother’s house, and turn
mg quickly, she saw a flutter %
the window-curtain that told her
Mrs. Gunn was watching them
He came closer to her and
touched her arm. “Listen J ean
we’ll have to postpone our holi
day. I can’t get away just now”
She stared at him, unable to
find words.
‘Mother has bought the store
m Toongai; you know Nelson's
store. It’s a wonderful business
so I’ll have to go there tonight to
fix things up and get the ham?
of the place. Old Sam Nelson
wants to get out as soon as pos
sible. That’s why mother walker)
out to meet me,”
T BAN still stared at him her
~ ! ips quivering, a defeated
hopeless feeling in her heart ’
“Our holiday is only post-
poned,” he said. “This only
means postponing it for a few
months —and we’ll have another
store, another wonderful busi-
ness.”
She pushed past his restraining
arm and reached the bedroom of
their house before her tears
came.
The knock at the door sum-
moned her harshly to the life
about her again. She went along
the hall slowly and saw Alice
standing on the front veranda.
Across the street the store stared
back at her implacably, Edwin’s
car still stood in the road, and
Mrs. Gunn was preparing to lock
the store for the night. The
township sprawled sleepily under
the late-afternoon sun. For a
second or two the meaning of
Alice’s words wasn’t clear to her,
then she heard distinctly:
“Mrs. Gunn says can I get
Mr. Edwin’s suitcases, please?
He has to go to Toongai straight
away.”
the bottling. Sulphur will stop
this, and is the only disinfectant
permitted. When it has done its
work, fresh, clinically-bred
yeasts are added to the ‘must,’
which is the juice and pulp of
the crushed grapes. Occasion-
ally they use a heavy hand with
the sulphur and we notice it.”
“One more query. Wine-
connoisseurs of fiction given to
saying ‘Ah, yes, without pos-
sible doubt. Chateau Fitz, 1890,
form a large army. What do
you think of them?”
“Within limits that sort of
thing can be done. Someone
puts a glass in front of you and
says ‘What’s that?’ Any man
with a good memory—a good
taste-memory —could probably
pin the specimen down to some
particular House. He would
also get a rough idea of its age.
Assume that he recognises the
touch of a certain firm and the
sample seems to be about ten
years old, and say it is a -particu-
larly good wine. He knows the
that it was made about ten
years ago in a year that gave
better crop than usual. As sue
years are the exception, he nug
be able to say ‘I think A
from vintner Z’s 1941 c P;
But he can always be wrong _
Another set of sarn P le ® on
come in, and the judges go
with their work, quiet _Bj
sniffing, sipping, looking
knowing.


re
I " if
IS!
and to hold . . . the
magnificent Swan!
Clean in performance,
handsome in design, -it
writes smoothly and
well, with a nib pre-
cisely suited to your
hand. At all Stationers,
jewellers, stores—priced
from 37/3 'to 88/9.
s
SWAN
PENS
ds
a/1*o
SWAN INKS
BREWED
4 L -11. not merd y mixed
famous'u 1 u lo V rs and th ®
«• *» °‘‘ l . Swo " '" ki
do not / ,re «-Hf*ing. and
corrode. fade ' thlcfc nn or
MABIE, TODD & CO.
-££LLTD,, SYDNEY
f ‘7
~7.
rn\ /
a
f/r'
#
\Nsm
\'Ei
IN
c:
Cl
£
WILL
/ DISTRICT
WIN THIS
PENNANT
SiSiS
9
w.
•*'
X S •
■ .
N*> -W4-
'■S-t
YOUR HELP IS
NEEDED
You can tell a man’s character by the
company he keeps—and a' district’s by
the people who live in it. In districts
which win these Loan Honour pennants
you’ll find the homes of progressive,
money-wise, far-sighted people who have
realised that saving and investing are the
sure way to a happy and comfortable
future. Every, district in Australia has
been allotted Loan quotas (amounts of
money, and number of subscribers ex-
pected) and pennants like that shown
above are awarded to every community
which fills its quota. Decide now to invest
your savings in the Ninth Security Loan
and, when you apply for your Bonds or
Inscribed Stock, fill in the name of your
suburb (or town, if you live in the
country) in the space -provided on the
application form. Your money will then
be credited to your district and will help
to win an Honour Pennant.
Invest to-day.
Save for Security . ..
Invest in the
NINTH
SECURITY
LOAN
FACTS ABOUT THE
NINTH SECURITY LOAN
1. The full amount of ncjv cash sought
is required to pay for War, Repatriation
and Rehabilitation, for Public Works
and Services of the Commonwealth and
the States, and for redemption of
unconverted Securities maturing on
March 15.
2. Subscriptions for 3i% Bonds may be
for £lO or any multiple, and for
Inscribed fc Stock £lOO or multiples of
£lO above that amount, unless Stock
already held (minimum £100). Sub-
scriptions for 2% Bonds or Stock must
be for £l,OOO or multiples. Applica-
tions may be lodged through any Bank,
Money Order Post Office or Stockbroker.
3. Interest is payable each six months
during the currency of each series (3\%
Securities' —11/14 years; 2% —3 years).
4. Your Bank will hold your Bonds in safe
custody free of charge and credit interest
to your account.
5. Repayment in full at maturity is guaran-
teed by die Commonwealth.
6. On your Application Form credit your
subscription to your district to help its
quota.
CONVERT. The 2 % Third Security
Loan Securities issued in 1947 mature on
March 15, 1950. You can convert these
Securities into Ninth Security Loan Bonds
or Inscribed Stock immediately and prevent
any interruption to the income they earn.
95L9.113.20
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
the four Long
To k U J Sherlock Holmes. 4790.
Stones of S 1^ e “ f £ a st Lynne (in
To W, - ) by Mrs. Henry
good condition), °y
complete e«on o£ Con-
J° short stones.-™-
Information Sought.
m Unw to make~a kiln for burn-
(/) How io - ies Q f hmestone?
Difference between dark and light
fjswne? (3) Name of book on
pL small quantities no kiln is
( aJ ExSvate about 10ft. into the
ne ! d nf a bank or hill, making the
s !^ e nf the excavation act as three
Sl^ es f the kiln and lay 18m. of
r de her° on h the k bottom, followed by
S of Hmestone, filling the excava-
tion with alternate layers of wood
nH limestone. To every ton of
a d a two tons of limestone is re-
. » pile is covered wrth
earth, leaving an opening at the top
and one at the base of the kiln. Light
the timber at the bottom. The lime
produced is good enough for agri-
cultural purposes. (2) Practically
none, save that the lighter color is
slightly purer. (3) The Farmer’s
Handbook (Department of Agricul-
ture, N.S.W.), 10s. 6d.
* * * *
Formula for grafting-wax?
For use when warm: lib. tallow,
21b. beeswax, 41b. resin; melt and stir
together until, thoroughly dissolved
and stand the vessel in a dish con-
taining boiling water while being
used, For use when cold: lib, mut-
ton suet, 21b. pitch, 41b. beeswax,
41b. turpentine; melt and stir slowly
over a low fire. When cold roll into
balls.
* * * *
Are oyster-shells, seaweed and
fish scraps helpful in the garden as
fertilisers ?
Seaweed is excellent, especially for
sandy soils. Spread it out in the sun
for a few weeks and then dig it well
through the soil. In heavy soils it is
best to chop the seaweed into small
pieces before using. Oyster-shells
contain a great deal of lime, and
should be burnt and then crushed.
Where fish residue (heads, bones, etc.)
is plentiful it will help considerably
if placed around strong-growing
plants such as dahlias and chrysanthe-
mums.
* * * *
Is it harmful to prune spartium (or
* broom) shrubs ?
Since brooms thrive best when left
alone, these shrubs must be pruned
only when the growth is over-
abundant or likely to interfere with
other garden subjects. Sometimes
after cutting-back the shrubs develop
“die-back,” or rotting in the limbs.
Should pruning be necessary do all
the work in July, after the new growth
has hardened. The limbs are tubu-
lar, therefore see that the secateurs
are very sharp so as to minimise
bruising.
* * * *
How are synthetic rubies and
diamonds made?
For rubies, pure iron-free am-
monium-alum is mixed with a little
chrome-alum, and the whole precipi-
tated in a warm aqueous solution by
ammonia,. The product is air-dried,
dehydrated at red-heat and the
powder fused on a reducing blow-
pipe flame. For diamonds, powdered
quartz 100 parts, red-lead 157 parts,
caustic-potash 54 parts, boric-acid
five parts, white arsenic i part, well
mixed together and melted in a
covered pot and stirred until the
mixture becomes too stiff for stir-
ring. It is next annealed, the pot is
broken up and the fragments of
“strass” are cut to shapes desired.
* * * *
(7) When and where was the first
Davis Cup tie played? (2)i What
countries competed? (3) What was
the result?
(1) The first match ever played for
the Davis Cup took place at Long-
wood, Boston, U.S.A., on August
8-9-10 in the year 1900. (2) British
Isles, represented by A. W. Gore, E.
D. Black and H. Roper Barret;
America, represented by N. V. Whit-
man, H. Ward and D. F. Davis —
the donor of the Cup. (3) Whitman
(U.S.A.) beat Gore, 6-1, 6-3, 6-2;
Davis (U.S.A.) beat Black 4-6, 6-2,
6-4, 6-4; Davis and Ward (U.S.A.)
beat Black and Roper Barret 6-4,
6-4, 6-4. The other two singles
matches were not completed.
* * * *
How is the Greek word for orange
pronounced, and how did the word
get into the Greek language?
It is pronounced “portokali.” It
is reputed that the orange was native
to Spain and Portugal. According
to Greek mythology Hercules was
sent to western Europe to steal the
golden apples (oranges). He suc-
ceeded, and, passing back through
the Gibraltar Straits, he built there
the Herculean Pillars as a mark of
his exploits. During the early Middle
Ages the Portuguese, being a seafar-
ing people, were in touch with Greek
waters in the Near East, and they
took there oranges, which the
Greeks named Portugal, or portokali,
as there is no G in the Greek alpha-
bet.
Brief Answers.
J.W.R.: Bellamy’s Looking Back-,
ward (1887), Lothrop Stoddart’s
Rising Tide of Color (1920) and Re-
volt Against Civilisation (1922)....
L.R.: Spirit strengths of port, mus-
cat and) sherry are approximately the
same; the law in N.S.W. providing
that they shall not be sold at a spirit
strength of more than 35 per cent,
proof. Chablis, sauterne, claret, bur-
gundy and hock are of a much lower
spirit strength, being in the vicinity
of from 19 to 21 per cent, pr00f....
D.F.D.: Contact director of the
Museum of Technology and Applied
Science, Harris Street, Broadway,
Sydney T.Y.: The English Derby
was first run May 4, 1780, and was
won by Sir Charles Bunbury’s chest-
nut cold Diqmed, by Florizel out of
a sister to Juno, by Spectator. Con-
ditions were that the race was a
sweepstakes of 50 guineas each, half
forfeit, for three-year-old colts, Bst.,
and fillies, 7st. 111 b.; one mile....
V.C.J.: Mitchell Library has no
record of any agricultural school-
farm in N.S.W. about 80 years ago.
J.D.N.: The arsenical solution is
very poisonous, and care should be
taken that none of it gets into the
Queensland radio-transceiver oj p er ‘l
tion may not be established without
a licence....Y.P.: The Gimcrack
Stakes winner Mighty Song,-a chest-
nut filly by Ajax, from the Marconi-
gram mare Chanson, was bred at A.
W. Thompson and Co.’s Widden
Stud, Kerrabee, N.S.W., and fetched
2300 guineas at the 1949 Sydney
yearling sales. From the same stud
3Wo^u^^s* n th^!^^-Cornn)ete fil?v
for 2500 guinWs and the Aiax-Hellen’s
Double fifiv for 1900 iuineas
R Y ; Petitio PriJm*iiTuni'ot
argument which assumes the conclu-
sion aimed at as a proved fact....
W.G.: Trotsky was dismissed January
17, 1925 Y. 1.:? Cannot make a
recommendation without seeing the
b00k... .R.L,: They are all Mexi-
can. Guadeloupe, which rises from
an oceanic abyss, is 15 miles long.
Cedros is inhabited chiefly by a fishing
community, and Rivilla Gigedo, a
rocky island group of which the
largest, the mountain island S®corro,
is 24 miles long, was formerly a large
convict settlement D. 8.: Nubin-
gerie is an N.S.W. abo. word meaning
“young man” D.K.L.: There is a
co-relation Ship between loss of memory
and the mental trouble that hampers
the appreciation of spoken words and
music. The latter originates in a
sensory asphasia or loss of “ear” for
harmony; a physiological cause can
usually be traced, Where there is no
definite health fault or pressure
organic changes in the brain must be
anticipated. In all cases medical
diagnosis should be sought....
M.F.: Can find no evidence suggest-
ing that it has been abolished.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted ;
and no MS. will be returned unless
* tam P s accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor •
L " “ It . seems Grange to describe a
Wlth a tawdr >' soul as beauti-
fuL? Not at aI L 70U mustn’t put the
starldardso high... J.J.L.: The violin-
maker seems authentic enough; it’s the
story^n f r wd ° d *°® sn ’t convince us.
••••M.8.: The Family Failing”—
thinness? S.M.: Maybe it hasn’t
been done before, but it has that ap-
pearance... .A.L.8.: “The Little
Locksmith” was a bit mechanical....
W. 8.: Not quite... .L.E.P,: Your
870 words reduce to our polite “No.”
. ...LW.• Even Mr. Bendrodt
wouldn’t get as sentimental as that
about a racehorse R.W.: Scotch
seaweed isn’t our meat... .V.O’C.:
Literary fantasies go well
on current topics, but yours are sort
of general fantasies K.G.W.: A
neat twist to an old routine, but who
cares?... .J.C.1.: You do rather beset
the paths of your characters with pit-
fall and with gin, don’t you?
8.5.: The story the old fisherman told
the boy has some of the overtones of
a broadcast testimonial to a patent
medicine. ...J.Y.: Cute, cute;
terribly cute J.J.A.: “The For-
gotten Peninsula,” full-stop
M.McH.: We are forming a Society
for the Investigation of Suspicious
Circumstances Surrounding the Deaths
of Fictional Characters.... M.S.: It
thm.thi ,on--- W.M.: We
thought the story about the crime
dream a day-
had ' rwn • h
a
„ pi- V^ e ■’
® killed by his lion is
? n enough story in itself to
to * d quietly; but you pump it up
little piece:- A
8.C.: Should do all right else-
where W.K.: A bit forced....
E.V.C.: There’s a bit too much white
in your b1ack5....8.5.H.: Somehow
your snails escaped us G.R.:
Your unhappy little birds made us
too sad H. 8.: Nothing for us in
“Darkey’s Creek” E.W.; Found
“Immaculate Lady,” as usual, admir-
able, but just a little tedious;
“Kanaka” too slight... .F.W.T.:
“Life Goes On”—either too much or
too little K.F.: “Midnight Sun”
too precise of fact, too slight of feel-
ing C.R.: “Cooney’s Club” three
times too long L.G.C.: Trees
petrified in cliches C.J.S.: Not
quite, but you’re certainly not wast-
ing your time or ours.
RECOLLECTIONS OF THE EARLY 'NINETIES.
Boating Fatality at Altona Bay, Victoria.
The crew of a craft
Outward gh did°slli y
Upon Altona Bay
uf the afternoon*
Shrill winds did wail
And freshened into
A sudden gale,
O’er the craft dashed
The frothy wild waves
And hurried the victims
To deep watery graves.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Immigration
I agree with “Seahawk” (B. 15/2/’5O)
regarding the need for realising that non-
British migrants are human beings rather
than work cattle, and I concede that they
must be given “social recognition.”
Since, however, there is a certain
amount of extant social distinction be-
tween Australians who are, say, doctors,
and Australians who are dustmen, the
problem arises: Should a Polish doctor
who, in Australia, is employed as a dust-
man be taken into the social circle of
Australian doctors, or Australian dust-
men? Again, one would not invite, in-
discriminately, a strange Australian to
one’s home. How, then, can one be
expected to invite into one’s social circle
a person who is not only a stranger, but
a foreign stranger?
The solution is not wholesale artificial
welcoming of the “new Australians,” but
our old friend, Time. When the new-
comers have served out their term of
“slave-labor” they will be free, in most
cases, to practise their erstwhile trades
or professions. Then will begin the pro-
cess of absorption into the life of their
new land. Ido not believe in the “typical
Australian,” “typical Englishman,” etc.,
but I do believe iri the existence of
the typical engineer, wireless-operator,
accountant —in fact, that types belong
more in trades and professions (within
the bounds of the basic racial divisions)
rather than in nationalities. Thus, in the
ranks of their particular callings will the
migrants find Australians with whom they
have sufficient in common to commence
friendship and social life.
There are, however, outbursts of
national moronity and pettymindedness
on the part of Australians which could be
dispensed with in the interests of har-
monious absorption of migrants. I have
in mind the recent exhibition of certain
R.S.L. sub-branches on the occasion of
Pastor Niemoller’s lecture tour. These
branches obj,ected to the pastor’s presence
in Australia on the grounds that he had
once fought for his country against Aus-
tralia. In war it is the place of any man
to fight for his country, and it is plain
hypocrisy to condemn a man because he
has been a soldier in the opposing team.
I’m a returned soldier with no political
or ideological affiliations whatever, and
I’m all r or the action of the Common-
we?Uh overnment in extending to Ger-
. :.inv the same immigration facilities as
aI; \idy are extended to Italy, another
ex-t . In the German migrants I
•eo the engineers, the scientists and the
; : mers so badly needed by this country
and I consider them infinitely preferable
to, and much more easily absorbed, both
from the economic and eugenic view-
points, than Latin or Asiatic races.—
Communications (Q.).
Victorian Brown Coal
“Waddlin’ Willie” (B. 15/2/’5O) is a
little wide of the mark when he says
that raw brown coal mined in the Latrobe
Valley (Vic.) “is almost useless as a fuel
until converted into briquettes.”
Tens of thousands of tons of raw
brown coal are used in Victoria every
week*. The gigantic Yallourn Power
establishment with 22 boilers, generating
the greater proportion of power used in
Victoria, burns over 1800 tons per day
—straight from the opencut. Each day
several trainloads of raw brown coal go
to Melbourne for many large industries
that burn nothing else, while near Yal-
lourn Australian Paper Mills take several
hundred tons per day.
Within the last few months Victorian
Railways have been experimenting with
pulverised brown coal for use in loco-
motives. Reports are satisfactory.
The use of raw brown coal for gas-
making has been investigated by an expert
committee, which found that high-quality
gas could be produced. A plant is to be
built in Melbourne immediately. Later
a larger one will be built somewhere in
the Latrobe Valley and gas piped to Mel-
bourne and provincial centres. Most
towns in Gippsland will also be supplied.
Brown coal has a high oil conterit, and
the extraction of it has been toyed with
for years. Recently signs point to an
early start with the scheme.
The value of the brown-coal deposits,
not only to Victoria, but to Australia’
cannot be computed. The declared object
The contributor placed first is paid
4«d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
of the Victorian Government is to make
that State independent of black coal from
N. S. Wales, and if that can be done—
and there seems little doubt that it can
—the fillip -to industry all over Australia
will be tremendous. About four million
tons of black coal will be released yearly
for use elsewhere in Australia.
The known deposits of brown coal in
the Latrobe Valley are about 27,000
million tons, with around 10,000 million
in other parts of the State—practically an
inexhaustible supply.— Kayell (N.S.W-)-
Insurance and Inflation
“E.G.’s” assumption “that about twice
the insurance business is being written on
practically the same capital and reserves”
is not well-founded. Apart from sub-
stantial increases in capital in a few in-
stances, almost without exception—as a
glance through The Bulletin “Wild Cat”
columns will show —the reserve funds
of insurance companies have increased
annually to secure greater amounts of
cover. These annual additions to reserves
are obtained from increased earnings on
investments and increased premium
revenue derived from the extra cover
required by policyholders to cater for the
depreciated £A.
However, the means by which an in-
surance company provides security for
its policyholders are threefold: (1) Sound
“I’m sure I've met you before."
underwriting, (2) buoyant revenue, and
(3) adequate reserves and capital, and in
that order of importance. The essence
of sound underwriting involves retaining
sufficient proportion of the sum insured
to yield a reasonable profit without ex-
posing the company to a risk out of pro-
portion to its financial position. Any
sum beyond that judicious “retention” is
reinsured. Thus the increased sums in-
sured arising from today’s inflated values
are apportioned among several insurers,
providing healthy revenues for all and
jeopardising the capital and reserves of
none.
Buoyant revenue is the policyholder’s
best security. In practice all claims are
met from revenue, and so long as ade-
quate premium rates are maintained for
the various classes of insurance, policy-
holders will never need to worry about
the substance of their insurance security.
Capital and reserves serve the import-
ant purpose of inspiring confidence, but
these resources are seldom ever called
upon. The great Texas disaster of about
two years ago caused a draw on British
insurance funds of some 20 million
pounds. It was met without the slightest
disturbance to the British insurance
market.
By sound underwriting, constant
revenues and prudent conservation of
surplus earnings, Australian insurers will
quite readily and securely absorb all
demands for cover, including the “in-
flated values” of these post-war years,-
Claims Clerk (N.S.W.).
Russia
“Ek Bum’s” outline of a possible and
simultaneous attack on both Europe and
Alaska is interesting, but some of us
who were in Intelligence still hold to the
opinion we formed in 1946 that the
Soviet’s main thrust will be in the region
of the Near and Middle East. The heart
of Soviet war industries lies due north
of Iran ; from the Caspian to Afghanistan
thei;e are within the Soviet boundaries
over 20 million Soviet Muslim subjects;
the Soviet has for a long time been court-
ing the Arab League, though with not
much visible success; since the creation
of Pakistan she is considering the possi-
bilities of fishing in troubled waters, and
before this year is out we may have some
indication of how far she has progressed
in this direction; when withdrawing her
three army corps from the Azerbaijan,
she left a whole horde of very efficient
Communist “cells” in their place.
Russia’s primary offensive front will
extend from the Balkans to the borders
of Pakistan. It will embrace Turkey, but
the main line of advance will be due south
into Iran and then branching both east
and west —to Palestine and Egypt, and to
Pakistan and India, Saudi Arabia will
be a further objective. Thus she cuts our
jugular vein and at the same time seizes
the main oil sources of the Middle and
Near East. That is objective enough,
surely. She would seriously cripple her
opponent on a line of communications
and, at the same time, throw out a wide
margin of protection against her soft
“under-belly” being easily penetrated in
a counter-offensive.
Far-eastern Siberia is hardly suitable
for a grand offensive, and Europe, though
it may in theory offer itself as a theatre
for a secondary offensive, will in the
main be used as a shock-absorber for an
Allied counter-offensive, at the same time
pinning down troops which might be
used elsewhere. To make Europe an
offensive front would be a precarious
policy, as any Russian offensive would
have to be organised in potentially hostile
territory, alleged “satellites” notwith-
standing. These same “satellites” would
tear Soviet forces to pieces were they to
suffer a major reverse.
The danger-point in terms of time is not
while Stalin is alive; when he dies, either
naturally or with assistance'always avail-
able in Soviet circles, then is the time to
sfimd to. That, roughly, was how we
viewed Soviet strategy, and still do. Both
China and Europe serve admirably to
divert our attention from anything being
prepared immediately east of the Urals,.
What is our own direct interest in the
shaping of events? From Communist
China, as a Communist State, we need
fear nothing. The strong individualism
of the Chinese runs counter to him ever
embracing the ideology of Communism
permanently. In any case there is no
quality of permanence in Communism—
it serves no more than a means to power,
to just another “imperialism.” China will
absorb and digest her own Communism
unless wide-open temptation is thrown
in her way to proceed further —the Burma
Road, for instance.
The Colombo conference produced
little except the question of “uplift,” or
some such policy to the same effect. If
that is meant seriously, then the obvious
starting-point is the immediate rehabili-
tation of Burma before all else. Not only
has Burma been the rice-supplier of
Central South Asia, but the Burma Road
(now unguarded) comes into it from
China. The implications are obvious. I
should be interested in “Ek Bum’s” views
on that angle.—W. H. P. (W.A.).
Car-owners
For years I’ve sold cars, new and old,
but I’ve never lost interest in how folk
come by the means to buy them, particu-
larly these days when prices are so high.
Frequently the client is aware of the
curiosity he is arousing and offers an
explanation, albeit in very general terms.
Other times you get to know from in-
terested sources. The ultimate conclu-
sion is that a person needs some unusual
financial circumstances before he can buy
a car.
Most of the big, new cars on the
streets today are owned by businessmen,
who have been aided by low interest rates
and the opportunity of passing on con-
siderable capital costs through demand
outstripping supply. Closely following
them are those persons who held
or possessions before the war a^ P !, rty
posed of them on a desperate mark* n f
too ready to ignore price-contrl y
future devaluation. Included in {S 0r
perty would be homes and furnitS * P i°'
owners of which are now in mam, ’ tbe
living with relatives or inhkhl? Cases
flats. Still, they have thdr new^
In a somewhat similar cateson;
those ex-servicemen who are
homes before the war, were able uf^ loB
their deferred pay on car?; ft ‘Sf*
similarly placed who accumulated I s
pluses from lucrative sources durine T
lush war years. in £ tae
A smaller group consists of those with
extra income sources, such as furnitun?
making under the house, or whosfwiJ
contribute to a joint income. Anothe?
group, usually associated with advancin!
years, have maturing insurances S
gages raised on property laboriously S
off, or have benefited under a will C
of all are the lottery prizewinners
Backyard (Q.). ners, ~~
Land Hunger
Something will have to be done to
satisfy the craving for land in Australia
if we are ever to have well-populated
country areas to stabilise the nation and
provide food for Britain, For 11 blocks
;iS,® ade available at Tumbarumba
(N.S.W.) there were nearly 900 applicants
and for seven blocks at Deniliquin un-
wards of 200 applied. The great majority
of applicants were experienced farmers
who could work their own land without
hired labor, which becomes scarcer, more
costly and less efficient each year
Famished (N.S.W.).
Modern Airmail
In Los Angeles airmail has been col-
lected by helicopter from some 44 post-
offices for over two years with notable
success, collections having increased from
48,1001 b. in October, 1947, to 375,0001 b.
in December, 1948,
The business is handled in four circuits
which all begin and end at the Los
Angeles airport. On the outward trip in-
coming mails are delivered to the post-
offices and dispatch mail picked up. There
is no lag in the time of receipt and dis-
patch, for the machines land on the roof
of the airport post-office.
Night-flying operations are now in full
swing, so that the last day-postings are
picked up at night and delivered to the
airliners leaving for other cities in all
parts of the U.S.A.
There is an idea here for Australia’s
P.M.G. In Sydney, for instance, all air-
mail is collected froria suburban post-
offices and taken to the city G.P.0., where
it is sorted, and then carted to Mascot by
motor-truck, involving a delay in dispatch
of anything up to 20 hours. In fact air-
mail posted at Mascot airport P.O. comes
into Sydney by truck for sorting and goes
feck, by truck.
The P.M.G. should look to the future
by stipulating that plans for the erection
or renovation of post-offices provide for
a flat-roof for helicopters. It would not
add to the cost of new buildings; the
clear space required by a helicopter is
only approximately 50ft. by 50ft.
The P.M.G. might also import a couple
of helicopters from Britain and start an
experimental service in Sydney and Mel-
bourne. — Recco (N.S.W.).
Trees and Erosion
Soil-conservation on a large scale is
being carried out in country districts 0
N. S. Wales by using the Government
hire plant and the expert operators pro-
vided with it. The work .done will n
be permanent unless trees, crops,
grasses and clovers are planted to co
solidate it. Thousands of trees are wasteu
annually in nurseries because the dema
do not come up to expectations fe sea f
the need for replacement. A_ subsidy
tree-planting would result in va ‘ u , ,
groves and shelter-belts being e
fished. — Kurrajong (N.S.W.).
Fat-lambs and Wool _ t 0
It looks as if Britain is
suffer a decrease in her meagre
ance of meat because of the swit' . fl
from fat-lamb raising to wool-gro s .
Australia. Wool prices have in toQ
by 400 per cent., while lamb and
prices have only advanced abou " an d
cent. Considering the extra la-
expense connected with lamb-
the loss of ewes, tailing, rnulesing, 0 f
ing, etc., not to mention the lug ve
sires—-it looks as if something vern .
will have to be done by the ye( j.
ment if fat-lamb raising is to 0 n
A subsidy on farm wages, as “ essar y,
lamb and mutton, seems to be n
—Moira (N.S.W.),


"Battleground."
rrntial ingredients of good war
urobably human fear and cour-
. swirled along m a current of
.' ey. M.-G.-M.’s much-publicised
-the story of a group of U -S
it Bastogne in the Battle 01
e ” —has those ingredients scat-
ter loosely through it, but be-
tiever seems to concentrate them,
■ather short of being a moving
•ama.” It is > in its mtended
and its observation, however
al much better than average, but
11-told, well-constructed drama of
j war it does not, for instance,
h the intensity of the “Home of
/e,” shown lately in Sydney.
j)y the film takes in so many
:rs that it hasn’t the time to pene-
ry deeply into any one of them —
Whitmore’s seasoned tobacco-
; sergeant with his consistently
md good advice to his officers, the
icking Douglas Fowley, Ricardo
ban’s young Mexican, John
nudiax’s journalist, George Murphy’s
homesick “Pop,” Marshall Thompson’s
youngster or Van Johnson’s
i-lucky soldier. The film could
Id its story better and more
ally than it does by focusing on
of those characters, preferably
re’s sergeant, and reducing the
“supporting roles.”
is, the characters slip past with
dissatisfying recognised-but-
effect. In that respect the film
im to a documentary quality,
piece of reporting, it is prob-
good, but certainly no better
u ner Locke Elliott’s “Rusty
hich set down a lot of Aus-
es with almost photographic
ut without going very deeply
t lade them tick. And, further,
curnentary material can have
nt quality of its own, it is not
e accepted sense—it has not
xaggeration, that elimination
and that artful arrangement
and concentration of characters and
events which combine to project the full
force of any story from writer and per-
formers to an audience.
Paradoxically, in view of its docu-
accent, “Battleground” has an-
-0 tier difficulty which it never quite over-
comes Whatever the truth of them, its
naracters and events, particularly the
s desperate stand of the surrounded
floK n , and lbeir re hef by U.S. rocket-firing
ghters and C 47 transports, fit so easily
that convendona l Hollywood patterns
drifting oo often gets the impression of
mng th r°ugh typical Hollywood fiction
of watching a drama of men
oubt the filmsmiths could fairly
aat war is like that—fleeting im-
s or places and faces, and people
•nations that seem to belong to
ut it is the task of the dramatist
to make them appear credible, to expand
and condense, to exaggerate and modify,
to give both reality and unreality the
semblance of reality, and to force the
whole into a satisfying dramatic form set
off with not too many highlights and sup-
ported by appropriately subdued detail.
“Battleground,” falling somewhere be-
tween realistic fiction and documentary
realism, and touching too lightly on
too much material, doesn’t measure up to
that standard.
"The Heiress."
In this strong and finely acted drama
(current at Melbourne State and Sydney
Prince Edward), Ralph Richardson is the
wealthy and widowed Dr. Sloper who has
an ungainly daughter, Olivia de Havil-
land, as shy and awkward as he is pom-
pous and self-sufficient. She has a large
legacy from her mother and larger ex-
pectations from her father, who wants her
to get married, and naturally she gets a
suitor in the shape of a penniless but
attractive young man, and naturally an
ingredient of his love is her money, be-
cause what else has she? She is certainly
not charming, and even her father knows
that as well as she does, yet he is horri-
fied and disgusted with the young man
when, after a visit to a relation, he
learns his circumstances. He doesn’t
hesitate to tell his daughter, and that in
no very tender fashion. He also tells
her how completely worthless she would
be without his money. She refuses to
have her illusion shattered until her lover
provides evidence that would convince
a blind horse when she .tells him her
father has cut her off without a shilling.
She then ousts both the father and the
young man from her affections and goes
off apparently determined to die an old
maid.
It is a pathetic picture because every-
body concerned is ridden by the same
false conception of what love is. The
daughter doesn’t love the young man —
she knows nothing about him; all she
loves is her conception of him, so she is
in love with nothing. The young man is
certainly in love with something—her
money—so he is in love with something
concrete, and at least they would have
that after they got married and their
romantic illusions had been shattered
when they tried to come together.
But he reviews himself through
the same romantic conception as the
father and the daughter and feels himself
to be a scoundrel. In some societies
potential husbands bargain with their
in-laws over the daughter’s dowry with-
out having an ill conscience, and in France
they have the dot, and they say that
French marriages of convenience often
work out much better than marriages in
places like America where romance is
the ruling motive.
Miss de Havilland’s performance is. the
most striking seen on the screen for a
long time. Her face and body reflect
the various moods, the little bit of hope
that comes into her life, the disillusion-
ment and the hatred, in a remarkable
manner.
"Mr. Perrin and Mr. Traill."
The best feature of this British pro-
duction, now at Melbourne Athenaeum,
is the character of Mr. Perrin and the
acting of Marius Goring. It is a school
story but with the emphasis put not on
the tyrannising of the masters over their
pupils, but the tryrannising of the masters
over one another, and it must be some-
what gratifying to a person who has been
subjected to the system to discover that
teachers, apparently, get much more of
it than their charges,
The most abominable tyrant is the
headmaster, Mr. Thompson, a ferocious
sadist who expresses his unconscious
feelings in the belief that it is his duty
completely to crush the spirit of his staff,
Raymond Huntley rather overdoes the
role—it is difficult to believe that such a
pompous ass could rise to a position of
"Why don't you get a rope of your
own!"
authority over others unless they were
even bigger asses.
They almost are in this case, however.
Mr. Perrin is middle-aged and a bachelor
and is given a new assistant in the shape
of Mr. Traill, done by David Farrar. He
is evidently intended to be the hero, but
he looks a lout, behaves like one and
falls sentimentally in love with the school
nurse, Isobel Lester. Mr. Perrin then dis-
covers that he harbors a similar feeling
and becomes insanely jealous, though he
is as completely impotent to declare his
passion to the lady as any schoolboy.
He becomes neurotic, loses interest in
examination-papers, takes it out of the
school favorites of his rival and finally
takes to sleep-walking to Traill’s bedside
armed with a dagger.
Pursued by Mr. Perrin, Mr. Traill
falls over a sea-cliff, and the spectacle of
his body lying helpless on the sands with
the tide coming in shocks Mr. Perrin
out of his hallucinatory state and turns
him into a hero. He climbs down and
with a display of phenomenal strength
rescues Mr. Traill, but perishes in the
raging waters.
What redeems the crude naivety of the
picture is the acting of Marius Goring.
He makes it live while he is in it.
Better Films?
“0.F.”: It is melancholy point that
while, in its brief history, Hollywood had
shown a technical development in film-
making that is almost miraculous it seems,
in the words of song from the current
musical “Oklahoma!”, to have “gone
about as far as it can go” in the matter
of what it puts into its films. If it hasn’t,
why, despite frequent assurances that the
film business is taking stock and making
better and more intelligent films, is it
turning for material to such things as
comic-strips and radio serials, which have
as much enduring quality as a peanut on
a railway track?
Admitted, this modern American
Mecca does make good films, very good
ones, but they are so few and far between
that one in every two or three hundred
would be a fair estimate of the average.
Why? Probably because it is trying
frantically to produce more and more
films that do anything except represent
life in the U.S. (There is the almost in-
credible impossibility, of course, that
Hollywood films in general do represent
life in America, in which case Mars should
be forgotten and a team of scientists
dispatched to the U.S, to report on the
phenomenon.)
The great strength of the best French,
Italian and English films seen here is that
they do seem to represent the earth and
people and life of their own countries.
Hollywood, on the other hand, except on
the few occasions when it touches excel-
lence, seems intent on producing the
greatest mass of unreality, of escapist
fare, it possibly can. As Kipling said
very nicely, a measure of that serves a
good purpose, but a continual and over-
whelming avalanche of it is not only
suffocating for the film business itself,
but repulsive in the profitable fascina-
tion it exerts over juvenile minds —the
last public holiday in Sydney was a
glorious sunny invitation to parks and
beaches and bush, yet, as far as this
commentator could observe, every film-
house in the city was crammed J
and mainly with young people.
Surely a country with the ex ~ Ar '
nary vigor of America is not a 1. aci
skyscrapers and concrete, of flash
mobiles and flasher people, of heiresses,
crooners, cowboys, Cinderellas and gang-
sters, of comic or dyspeptic millionaires
or dumb cops and crooked politicians.
Surely what amounts almost to a nr-
civilisation hasn’t been built on or pro-
duced only that; and surely somewhere
there are American earth and people and
life, and therefore drama, tragedy and
humor, more closely related to the re-
markable past and present of the country
than the extraordinary panorama Holly-
wood presents. Only when it really gets
down to that material, and handles it with
the same simple fidelity as the French and
Italians handle theirs, will Hollywood
“make better films.”
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 59
Across.
iiitiply on the side of a lone-
-1) pnsoner who had a meal.
avada We a month
«ti k lard and ®, mployees who re-
<e before rt?.u rippmB and such '
xt h Symphony ey ( s) Beethoven ’ s
•% truism" 1 , absurdit ies are
•TtfrcSL arn. Ch ? u n full
«k togTaflfv beef ' (9 >
1) 8 nas nothing to do.
ffil th? U con b n Ut B ' Ve / S no direc '
inenoe of P f rS ‘ (5)
'man. (4) a great left-hand
tha t a ringlet is returned.
* some precinifl 6 this circuit
ae foot of tic tatlon - (6)
ae maker of fhk ma H er is that
v, ha ?^ pn © !raagines
° ,berwise
sea in h , m< ’wy. (4)
much
(CRYPTIC type.J
24 —Smus needs it to be a great
Dutch scholar. (3) •
26 —Sentries expect to hear the
parent’s weapons. (9)
28— Snap of high temperature m the
European river. (5)
29 — Sleep on any good carpet. (3}
30— Tradesmen take a step to experi-
ment before the firm approves.
(ID
Down.
1 — Time gone by makes a fine speech
for clerical offices. (10)
2 Deaf-aids upset a Roman censor
to expel holy images. (13)
3 Soldier in the cooler to conduct
criminal proceedings against a
British island. (11)
4 A revelation of something dis-
creditable. (6)
5 Shortens a Poet Laureate. (8)
6 Finish. (3)
B—Pig’s food helps to support an
aerial. (4)
11 —Polo’s holy oxen in a musical
offering. (9, 4)
14 — He changes the oil on Cancer or
Capricorn, pertaining to some
lilac-blue flowers. (11)
15 — Like to take a salad plant to us
without mouths. (10)
18 —Celebrity actor among the poten-
tial blooms of birds. (8)
21 —He entertains the person who
puts the morning to good pur-
pose. (6)
25 —Sleeps rise during bridge. (4)
27—Bundle turns up the animal’s
dook. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 58.


ROLLS RAZOR
Lv#S
m
m
55* il
Ov^wyo
US?
'SfSSSSSSIS I c
s? ■
The World's
Best Safety
The Rolls Razor with its
one hollow ground blade of
finest Sheffield Steel, which is
stropped and honed in its own
compact case. With proper care
and attention this single blade should
last a lifetime.
OTHER ROLLS SPECIALTIES...
as®*©?*?.*'®
ROLLS RAZOR SHAWNS BRUSH
Specially made in England of
selected, pure, matched Badger
hair. Smooth on your face.
Whips up a penetrating lather in
next to no time. In a beautiful
presentation case £3/-/-.
SOAP, STICK & STROP DRESSING
Three perfect shaving accessories
by Rolls Razor. These are ideal
gifts in attractive plastic
containers.
Shaving Soap 10/6
Shaving Stick 8/3
Strop Dressing 3/6
iiiuHll!
if!!!
a
m
m
in i'
urn
fUfll
y/////
tiMUfr
fS
MAGNIFYING SHAVING MIRRORS
London made with chrome frames
and bases. Available in two sizes.
Large size, 6" diameter, with
double sided normal and magni-
fying glass and ball-swivel joint
for easy adjustability, £2/5/-.
Small size, 4" diameter, £l/13/-.
m
am
mt
FAMOUS ROLLS ONE BLADE SAFETY (Illustrated above)
One perfect hollow-ground blade and a built-in automatic strop
and hone to maintain this perfect edge. Truly a gift that will
last for years £4/-/-
ROLLS RAZOR “VICEROY" ELECTRIb DRY SHAVER
A triumph of British workmanship! This latest Rolls product
comes in a handsome leatherette travelling case complete with
all fittings. 240 volt A.C £7/7/-
ROLLS “VICEROY” NON-ELECTRIC DRY SHAVER
With this ingenious hand-operated precision instrument you
may dry-shave anywhere at any time. No soap, water, brush,
blades or electricity required £6/10/-
c
Tn wT™ vnT™ L i^T^ E^ CANN ° T SUPPLY Y 0U > WRITE DIRECT TO ITS AND WE WILL ARRANGE
HAVE YOUR REQUIREMENTS FORWARDED TO ANY ADDRESS WITHIN THE COMMONWEALTH.
ROLLS RAZOR
QUEENSLAND: The
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PT Y. LTD.
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY • TELEPHONE BW 2038
d„ii- 0 r .. . ~. _ _ Interstate Representatives:
WKTFa^'iHmuii* 7 'ufiL 7 ! Brisbane. VICTORIA and TASMANIA: Godfrey Phillip (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Drury Lane, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris. Scarfe 4 Sandover Ltd., Hay Street, Perth. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell Ltd,, Plrie Street, Adelaide.
