

The Bulletin
“The Bmfetin,” Vol. 71—No. 3691
Wednesday, November 8, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
BRIGHTON, the largest seaside resort
on the south coast of England, is one
of the most widely-known pleasure cities
of the world, with a reputation for gaiety
extending over a period of a century and
a half. Its spacious squares and noble
Regency architecture, i'ts proximity to the
beautiful Sussex Downs and its nearness
to London (50 miles) have all combined
to make Brighton and its smaller and
perhaps more sedate sister, Hove, the
most popular resorts in Britain.
The city of Brighton has grown from
a small fishing village which, until the end
of the eighteenth century, was known as
Brightheimston. During its early begin-
nings it suffered much from the en-
croaching sea and from French raiders,
who, in 1514, laid the town in ruins. In
revenge for this attack Sir John Wallop
sailed across the Channel with a small
force and burned a score of villages and
towns in Normandy. It is believed that
the word “wallop” had its derivation in
the exploits of this forceful commander.
It was from Brightheimston that
Charles II in 1651 escaped from his pur-
suers to France in a coal brig after his
defeat at the Battle of Worcester.
The foundation of Brighton’s modern
prosperity was laid in 1754, when its sea-
bathing was strongly recommended as a
cure for ill-health by a Dr. Richard
Russell, of Lewes, and its reputation as
a fashionable watering-place was estab-
lished in 1784 when the Prince Regent,
afterwards George IV, came to live there.
His marine palace, known as the Royal
Pavilion, was designed by John Nash in
a variety of exotic Indo-Chinese styles of
architecture, and its building took place
between the years 1815-1820, at a total
cost of over £500,000. The Royal Stables,
now known as the Dome, alone cost the
Prince £55,000, and were used as a hos-
pital during the First World War, and
later converted into a concert hall.
The State Apartments, which are open
to the public, are panelled with delicate
Chinese wall-papers, and the palatial
music and banqueting rooms hold
dazzling chandeliers of crystal and gilt.
During the reign of George IV Brighton’s
Royal Pavilion had many notable visi-
tors, including the Tsar of Russia, the
Austrian Metternich and the wife of the
Russian Ambassador, Princess Lieven,
who was responsible for much of the
political intrigue which went on in the
Royal Pavilion at that time.
BRIGHTON'S ROYAL PAVILION, SCENE OF MANY A NOBLE REVEL
CHRISTMAS WINE FOR BRITAIN I
A Have you friends or relatives in the United Kingdom? Here, then. Is news that mast
interest yon. Just imagine them toasting you at Christmas Dinner while you toast them
in the same wine twelve thousand miles away! That’s possible through the “WINE-FOB-
BRITAIN” scheme introduced by The House of Seppelt, Through their Eondon Office, Seppelts
will arrange for your friends in the Homeland to be supplied with Seppelt Wines before this
coming Christmas. You’ll have to act at once fur Christmas will soon be here. Get details
of Seppelts “ Wine-For-Britain” scheme: Write to The House of Seppelt, Box 1422 H, G.F.0.,
Adelaide, South Australia.
A
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
SERVICE
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE FREMANTLE AND BROKEN HILL ALSO AT 88 CANNON STREET LONDON E.C.4


Learn
mSSIPBB®
HHiLljyjfl
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott's
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
1(io Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL ——’— -
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(8,15.250) ........Age
The Red Page
THE AGE OF MANAGERS.
The difference between a struggling
literary movement and an established
school of thought and poetry might well
be such a book as English Poetry, A
Critical Introduction, by F. W. Bateson
(Longmans), whose practical purpose is
to demonstrate that W. H. Auden is “the
greatest English poet since Keats.”
Lecturer in English literature at Corpus
Christi College, Oxford, editor of the
Cambridge Bibliography of English
Literature, Mr. Bateson is not to be taken
lightly, and it must be admitted that he
gives an interesting performance at the
literary world’s favorite game: the re-
valuation of literature. First you decide
what you want to prove; then you go
back to the “Beowulf” to find, much to.
your surprise, that, step by step, age by
age, literature has been arguing your case
for you.
T. S. Eliot played it, largely, one sus-
pects, to show how English literature —
and the world’s literature, too —have cul-
minated in T. S. Eliot; “Christopher
Caudwell” played it to show how, age by
age, English poetry has reflected
economics and politics, and will never be
happy until it is expounding Marx ; and
now Mr. Bateson plays it along much the
same politico-economic lines, although he
mentions neither “Caudwell” nor Marx,
but concludes in favor of Auden as the
“assured master” of the “Age of
Managers”:
A reading of him seems to me to confirm
that the socially dominant class in
England today is that of the “managers”
or “planners,” i.e., the men and women, of
varying social origins, who sit on com-
missions and committees, the compilers of
reports, with their allies in Parliament,
the Civil Service, local governments and the
trade-unions. Auden’s “difficulty” and the
undeniable obscurity of modern poetry
generally are partly explicable in terms of
this poet-reader relationship. A society run
by a minority of “managers” presupposes
a majority who are “managed,” the non-
ruling classes..who are more planned against
than planning. The success of such a
system must depend on the extent to which
the Managed are prepared to “trust” the
Managers. For the mass of the people to
retain their confidence in the new elite they
must look up to them as more intelligent
and better-informed than themselves....
Thus Mr. Bateson’s assumptions are
pretty wide and pretty new. His six
poetic schools parallel his six political
periods:
1. Lawyers’ Feudalism, Henry 11-Edward
111, The Anglo-French School. 2. The Local
Democracy of the Yeomanry, Edward 11l-
Henry VII, the Chaucerian School. 3. The
Centralised Absolutism of the Prince’s Ser-
vants, Henry VH-Cromwell, The Renais-
sance School. 4. The Oligarchy of the
Landed Interests, Charles 11-George 111, The
Augustan School. 5. The Plutocracy of
Business, George 111-George V, the
Romantic School. 6. The Managerial
State, George V ——? The Modern School.
Each of these periods, says Mr.
Bateson, “marked a consolidation of the
power of its dominant group by a
dramatic demonstration against its
immediate predecessor.” In the
“Managerial State” period the “general
election of 1945 (with the nationalisa-
tions consequent on it)” was the parallel
with the Peasants’ Revolt, the Tudor En-
closures, the Expulsion of James II and
the Reform Bill.
Moreover, each poetical age may be
divided into five stages:
1. Experimental Initiators (Wyatt, Waller,
Chatterton, Hopkins). 2. The Protagonists
of a New Style (Spenser, Dryden, Words-
worth, Eliot). 3. The Assured Masters
(Donne, Swift, Keats, Auden). 4. The
Polished Craftsmen (Herrick, Pope, Tenny-
son). 5. The Decadents, that is, men
reduced to “stunts” to get new effects out
of the exhausted tradition (Cowley, Collins,
Swinburne).
As to the supply of poets, that seems
to be fairly constant to the population:
1600-1700; one poet in every 61,200.
1700-1800: one poet in every 58,900.
1800-1900: one poet in every 63,800.
> On this basis some 800 poets will have
flourished during the twentieth century in
Great Britain.
As to poetry itself, it has been some-
what misunderstood. We must ignore its
singing quality, and deny its value as in-
cantation, and suspect its hypnotic effects.
The only important thing about poetry
is its meaning, especially its social signifi-
cance ; and the most important bearing
on this is the poet’s audience. Keats had
no real audience during his own times,
and then was taken-up posthumously by
the wrong people. The real motive-power
behind Wordsworth, Keats and Shelley
was the necessity for finding “the
quickest way out of Manchester.” The
women’s organisations which have
adopted Blake’s song about building
“Jerusalem in England’s green .and
pleasant land” are not aware that
“Jerusalem,” in Blake’s poetic cipher, is
the code-word for “sexual liberty.”
Whereas, of course, W. H. Auden is a
poet at grips with reality, a poet with an
audience in his own times—i.e., The
Managers—-a poet whose meaning, if one
can penetrate to it, is obviously more im-
portant than his song . . .
Granted Mr. Bateson’s premises,
Auden follows; and we, who are not
Managers, and would run a mile rather
than attend a Committee Meeting, must
content ourselves with the poetry written
for the Lower Classes in the New State ;
perhaps such tender things as that the
Soviet great man, Mayakovsky, divulged
to us in the magazine “Russia and Us,”
June, 1950: —
Swish quicker
you machines
and never
never desist
make more crepe-de-chine
for my
young communists!
True, as we watch “trustfully” the
“more intelligent and better informed”
managers at their daily perusal of their
official poet, base and heretical assess-
ments of Auden may come unbidden to
the mind ; that he is remarkably like in
feeling to John Lydgate, the monk of
Bury (15th century)—loose, racy,
allusive, sarcastic, of-his-times—of whom
Skeat remarked: —
He is remarkable for the great ease,
fluency and extent of his writings, a cata-
logue of which would take up a consider-
able space. He composed verses with such
facility that we cannot expect to find his
poetry of a very lofty character; still, he
is generally pleasing, though too much
addicted to prolixity....
Auden is certainly the poet of some-
thing new —of the youth-group, the
young people’s conference, the communal
hall, the steel-framed chair and table,
society emerging from the family group
into dormitories. He is the poet, for
instance, of such an uprooted society as
lived in Army and Air Force messes and
in field hospitals during the recent war.
Essentially he is more propagandist than
poet; for instance, his “Ascent of F 6”
stated quite clearly, in symbolism, the
idea that the British youth was tired of
performing miracles of skill and endur-
ance to uphold British international
prestige—one of the ideas- behind the
cession of India. For the most part his
poetry is an urge to action rather than an
act of creation or contemplation.
In the same way, Mr. Bateson’s book,
which neglects the great creative and con-
templative figures of Shakspeare and
Browning, minimises poetry to the state
of a social phenomenon, propaganda for
propaganda. In some ways its assump-
tions must seem like a dissertation on
painting by a blind man ; but it certainly
gives us something to think about, as
when Mr. Bateson says: —
The success of our civilisation will
probably depend as much on the degree tc
which the technicians and the Civil Service
can be humanised....
One would go further, and say that it
will depend on the degree to which such
as Mr. Bateson can be humanised.
R. McC.
"Flat" Characters.
NETTIE PALMER.
The reviewer of my study of Henry
Handel Richardson (R.P. 20/9/’5O) has
interpreted clearly the general intentions
of the book. On the contrast drawn be-
tween “flat” and complete, round
characters, however, his ideas never once
met mine. We were like trains crossing
on different levels: underground, over-
ground. When he spoke of flat
characters in fiction, he meant “negative,
unreal, mechanical” characters ; he called
them flat and insipid as he would have
spoken of collarless beer, and I accept
nis application of his epithet to the
characters he mentioned.
But I had written of “flat” characters
- using quotation-marks to show some
Pickwickian sense intended —as one con-
trasts a character given in the lines of a
two-dimensional cartoon and presenting
only one aspect, with a character pre-
sented in the three dimensions of a paint-
ing. The cartoon can be expressive and
even brilliant (W. H. Roberts, R.P.
11/10/’5O, quotes Forster to this pur-
pose), but it is a question what propor-
tion of such characters a realistic novel
can afford to carry.
[I do not think, in spite of Forster, that
“flat” is a desirable term for the minor
characters of Dickens, because the word always
carries a slightly derogatory connotation and
is associated in the mind with burst balloons as
well as two-dimensional cartoons. And if the
term is used it would require qualification in
each individual case: for if, by agreeing to
this terminology, we admit that the Fat Boy
in Pickwick is flat because he turns only one
side (the fat side) to the reader, we see a great
many more sides —her pathos, her pugnacity,
her avarice, her secret longing for love and
companionship in the fantasy of Mrs. ’Arris —
in the character of Sarah Gamp. I cannot see
Mrs. Gamp as a “luminous disk,” lit only by
Dickens’s vitality, but as a luminous globe lit
by her own. However, I agree that when I
reviewed Nettie Palmer’s admirable book
1 misunderstood her idea of “flatness” and I
would suggest only that in a future edition
she might make it more clear that the minor
characters of The Fortunes of Richard
Mahony, as distinct from those of Dickens or
Fielding, are fiat flat characters.
D.S.I
Spy Story.
With all due respect to Herr Moyzisch
who calls his Operation Cicero (Wingate
Ltd.) “the espionage sensation of the
war,” to Herr von Papen, who says
that is true, to Mr. Bevin who also
confirms the story and blames the care-
lessness of Sir Hughe Knatchbull-
Hugessen, and to Sir Hughe himself
who says, according ta the cables,
that the story is true but that “perhaps
I shall never comment on it,” I must say
that for once I agree with the late un-
lamented Herr Ribbentrop, who always
maintained that “Operation Cicero’ was
too good to be true.
The story, told so clearly and dramati-
cally by Herr Moyzisch that, unless he is
a born story-teller, some extremely
capable journalist must have helped him
with the book—perhaps it is the trans-
lators —is that on October 6, 1943, when
he was a diplomatic attache at Ankara,
Moyzisch met Sir Hughe’s valet, an
Albanian, who offered to sell him photo-
graphs of “top secret” documents from
the Ambassador’s safe; and, in the
period from October, 1943, to April,
1944, when the valet disappeared, Moy-
zisch bought for Germany a series of
these photographic copies for a total of
£300,000.
All this, guaranteed by the publishers
and confirmed by so many authorities,
must obviously be true, so far as it goes,
and it makes a fine story, full of mys-
terious assignations, diplomatic intrigues,
darkness, dastardly doings and danger.
Yet a suspicion lurks in my mind, as it
did in Ribbentrop’s—l am truly sorry to
find myself in such company—-that the
valet supplied to Herr Moyzisch only such
documents as the British Secret Service
thought it not only safe but highly desir-
able for the Germans to see.
There are certainly many points in the
story that give occasion for this interest-
ing suspicion to arise. Why, in the first
place, did Sir Hughe, British Ambassador
to Turkey in war-time, employ an
Albanian valet?
And how did a valet —not a private
secretary, who might reasonably have
had a chance —get access, time and again,
to Sir Hughe’s most secret papers? And
(a point that worried Moyzisch at the
time) how could the British allow an
Albanian valet to be present when the
diplomatic safe was being fitted with
special devices to protect it against
espionage?
Why was it that Moyzisch never
learned the valet’s real name? Was it,
as he says, simply because the valet
refused to tell him? Does he know it
and is he concealing it out of loyalty to
a former colleague? Or did the valet
indeed keep it dark, because a German
investigation of his career would have
given the game away?
Then there is the question that always
troubled the Germans: could Cicero, as
the valet came to be called, have taken
the photographs without an accomplice
to help him and, if he did have some
unknown accomplice, didn’t that make it
extremely likely that the whole thing
was a British “plant”? (Sir Hughe’s
office could hardly have been teeming
with spies and traitors.)
Cicero told Moyzisch that he held the
document in one hand and photographed
it with the camera in the other; “On the
face of it,” Moyzisch admits, “it would
seem almost impossible to hold the
camera and take the exposure with one
hand, without wobbling, and quite im-
possible at the same time to be holding
the document to be photographed.”
Then, according to Moyzisch, the Ger-
mans in Berlin talked so openly about
Cicero that everybody in diplomatic
circles knew all about him. On one
occasion Moyzisch was even congratu-
lated by the Japanese Ambassador on his
success in Ankara. Surely, then, there is
a distinct possibility that some whisper
would have reached the British about the
flagrant treachery that was apparently
being practised on them?
Then, a point of the first importance,
there is the fact that nearly all the bank-
notes Cicero got from the Germans —
£260,000 out of the £300,000 —were
forged. Moyzisch says that instantly he
and Von Papen saw the first consignment
from Germany he thought the notes
looked dubious. Wouldn’t the same
thought have occurred to Cicero, a spy
whom Moyzisch portrays as extremely
intelligent, never overlooking any detail?
Wouldn’t any man, when the Germans
were prepared to squander on him so
huge a sum as £300,000, look very care-
fully at the money, have samples ex-
amined by a bank?
The crux of the matter lies in whether
or not the documents Cicero photo-
graphed contained vital military secrets.
Recent cables have stated that they in-
cluded “an outline of the D-day landing
plans for Normandy,” but that is not
what Moyzisch says; he claims only to
have got from Cicero a clue to the mean-
ing of the mysterious term “Operation
Overlord” which, at that stage of the war,
could hardly have been difficult to guess.
Once Cicero secured in advance the
date of the first big Allied air-raid on
Sofia, which does indeed seem like a
first-class military secret: except that
Moyzisch had previously mentioned that
there were no air-raid defences whatso-
ever in Sofia ; and so it seems possible
that the Allies, confident that they could
attack without serious opposition, were
not unwilling that the civilian population
of Sofia should be warned of the im-
pending raid ... in any event, the Ger-
mans paid no attention to the informa-
tion. '
Except oh this one occasion, Cicero
seems chiefly to have supplied details of
R.A.F. “infiltration” into Turkey, of
U.S. lend-lease shipments to Russia, of
differences between the Soviet and the
Western Allies and of the Teheran Con-
ference at which “a new world had been
planned, whose premise was the utter
plotting-out of the Third Reich and the
punishment of its guilty leaders.” There
is no final proof that the documents were
authentic; but, if they were, they all,
except for the accounts of disputes with
the Soviet- —which were surely common
knowledge—seem exactly the sort of
material best calculated to shake Ger-
man morale, to encourage the desertions
among the German diplomatic corps
which occurred in Moyzisch’s own office
and, in Berlin, to hasten mutiny and col-
lapse among the Nazi leaders.
Moyzisch, who fully believed in Cicero,
portrays himself and Von Papen—
notoriously a dunderhead —as clear-
sighted masters of diplomacy and
espionage, continually frustrated by the
obtuseness, stubbornness and vindictive-
ness of Ribbentrop who, even when they
told him that “Operation Overlord”
meant that the Allies would land in
Europe, didn’t guess exactly where and
when they would land and instantly rush
out and stop them. Sir Hughe Knatchbull-
Hugessen figures as a courtly gentleman
and a “lucid” diplomat woefully deceived
by an Albanian valet into whose history
he had not inquired so much as to leam
that he had once worked for the Germans
and that his father had been killed by an
Englishman.
I don’t like to appear excessively sus-
picious, or even excessively patriotic, but
really I can’t help believing that Herr
Moyzisch had —and still is having—his
leg pulled by the wily British. But at
any rate he has produced a fascinating
book which, as the publishers say, un-
doubtedly “presents the German side of
the affair.” — Mac Hoots.
Cricket Books.
Spring, summer and the cricket season
are upon us. If proof is necessary the
mounting pile on the reviewer’s desk
supplies it: A Century of Cricketers by
A. G. Moyes, Gentlemen v. Players by
Pelham Warner, Cricket—The Silver
Lining by Cyril Washbrook, Farewell to
Cricket by Bradman, and Ray Robinsons
From the Boundary.
Briefly, cricket writers fall into three
categories. (1) is the famous player who,
having no past literary reputation, turns
out a volume relying on his cricket name
to sell the book. He may or may not
develop into (2) the famous player who
reveals literary ability and continues to
turn out successful sellers on his literary
reputation. And for (3) there is the pure
writer who has never graced a first-class
cricket field, but loves the game and en-
joys writing about it. All three are re P r ®"
sented in the present collection, and it
is more than passing coincidence that
easily the most enjoyable of the bunch is
that of Ray Robinson, whose reputation
as a crick et-player we have yet to hear
of. He. at any rate, stands in no need or
(“Red Page” continued on page 35.)


"TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING**
nthony Horderns’
LESS THAN FOUR MINUTES' WALK
dfrg
FROM TOWN HALL STATION
: Iftl ,i h
7/
Ev
m
m
sw®
><s«
sra
“Homeproud” Combination Unit Laminex Table. 4ft. 2m.
Floor and Upper Unit. Table, £l4/12/9. Upper Unit,
£2B/15/3. “Cl 4” Chrome Chair, £5/19/6. Six-piece
complete, Priced at £67/6/0.
Practical Occasional Pieces. Study Desk in Natural
Maple. Top, 48in. x 24in., £2B/ x2/6. Lamp
Standard, with shelves, Mellow Maple of Blond
Colour, Priced at £B/17/6.
Lounge Suite of Natural Silver Ash or Maple Finish. Loose
sprung cushions and padded back. Pieces available separately.
Chairs, from £l9/5/0. Two-seat Settee, from £37. Three-seat
Settees, Priced from £4l/5/0.
&
n
£
w 5
.SCK
W
:
rs>
K
S
: •
$
S»
4
ifi
I Iv
r
c^-
i
m
5U
c
3r
The Old and the New
in Modern Living
Whether you prefer the magnificence of furniture
with “Old World” charm, or the graceful dignity and simplicity
of the “Modern,” Anthony Horderns’ will satisfy your taste!
For those who haven’t space to spare—here is a suite that was just made for you . . .
simplicity and suitability as the keynote throughout! Comprising two-seat Settee and two
Chairs, with well sprung seats and comfortably padded backs. From £25/19/6. Odd Chairs
from £7/15/0. Also three-seat Settee style from £2B/17/6, Wide range of coverings. Price
depends on the covering chosen.
SEMI-PERIOD
DINING SETTING
Eight-piece Dining Setting of
selected timbers, finished in
rich, mellow Cedar colour, it
blends fundamental beauty
from the gracious Period era
with today’s requirements.
Seats upholstered in Empire-
patterned Tapestry. Rose or
Green. Priced at £73/14/3.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FURNITURE DEPARTMENT—FOURTH FLOOR. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. TELEPHONE, M 2401


AFRICA BAR
by JOHN FOUNTAIN
Illustrated by
UNK WHITE
THEY sailed from Mar-
seilles in a ship that smelt
powerfully of rust, stale
water and garlic, with an
Italian crew and a few Ger-
man guards, as anxious- and
elderly-looking as the ship. They
followed the Spanish coast, with
its hazy, broken line of moun-
tains, among which they caught
glimpses of little Spanish trains
puffing heroically, and berthed
at night. Desmond looked out
through the porthole at the black
still water and the huge dark
legs of the wharf. “Buenos
noches, Senor,” said a shadow
in a helmet. Desmond had
sufficient Spanish to ask where
they were. “Barcelona, Senor,”
said the courteous shadow, put-
ting the pure th sound on the
c. Desmond went back to sleep.
In the morning they marched
straight across to the British ship
tied up on the other side of the
wharf, and past them marched
the Germans, the field-grey and
khaki streams running parallel
and opposite.
The British Ambassador was
there in a dark suit and a
dazzling white shirt, talking to a
British colonel with brass but-
tons and cap badge of no less
triumphant splendor. It did
Desmond’s heart good to see
them —the might and urbanity
of Britain. And in the big shed
were stacked cases and cases of
light Spanish beer. A gift from
the British Government, or the
Spanish Government, or the
Ambassador , . . No one knew
rightly, but the beer came with
them. A bottle a day per man.
But someone impatiently
broached a case on the dock,
and soon a Beggar’s Opera of
ragged Australians and New
Zealanders were getting stuck
into it, A poor show, the slim
R.A.F. fighter-pilot said, and
Stan nodded his massive grey
head. Very bad, Stan said. He
liked beer as well as the next
man . . . better, perhaps . , . and
he had been deprived of it for
as many years as anyone else.
But in the circumstances, taking
everything into consideration . . .
A poor show. Stan leant his
bulk against the wooden wall and
stared at the revellers with
leonine scorn.
LITTLE Spanish nurses flut-
tered and darted among
them like pretty agitated doves.
Big Mati, the Maori, looked
quite embarrassed when an ani-
mated doll of a girl with big
liquid eyes and auburn hair tried
to take his gear from him. And
that old scoundrel Mac, for the
sheer pleasure of having a
ministering feminine arm placed
round his greasy tunic, developed
a distressing limp. He hobbled
along, grinning through his
ginger beard, towering above his
staunch little helper and plying
her with questions in a sort of
pidgin French.
There were also proud, lively
little men who looked like
generals but were probably medi-
cal officers, skipping and con-
ferring. The crowd of smiling
civilians were kept back by the
police. And all this time the
white ship was waiting, between
dock and sky, and the Germans
were pouring out of it, passing
from the broad sunshine into
the cool shed and then out into
the smelly Italian ship Desmond
yvas leaving in the backwater of
the past. There was one Panzer
captain with a round, shrewd,
red face like a diminished apple,
who had one arm and no legs,
sitting up on his stretcher, as
cheerful as daylight, smoking a
cigarette.
The Ambassador’s wife and
daughter came and talked to
them during one of the inevi-
table delays. Their questions—
“ How did the Germans treat
you?”—the first of a host of a
chain of interrogation that would
twist from this side of the world
to home and wouldn’t be un-
wound even there. A look of
surprise—the first of many—
when someone said “Not too
bad.” And what else could you
say but “Not too bad,” Des-
mond wondered. Unless it was
“Not too good.”
But they were pleasant
friendly women, and it was good
to hear them speaking the honest
English tongue. The R.A.F.
pilot, who turned out to be an
Australian from Sydney, mono-
polised all the social light in the
dim building that smelt so de-
lightfully of damp wood and
beer. Desmond looked at him
jealously. The fellow was too
glib; and Desmond disliked
that Pommy accent and elabor-
ate manner of talking in an Aus-
tralian. It smacked of national
inferiority, to Desmond’s way of
thinking.
The Ambassador’s daughter
threw back her head and
laughed, and the Australian and
New Zealand officers, lined up
in order of rank to speak to the
ladies, looked a trifle aggrieved
to Desmond’s discerning eye.
But soon they would be going
up the gangway in order of
rank, and then they would have
fine opportunities of talking to
the fresh-faced owners of those
starched white veils and red
cloaks peering over the rails. If
the fancy took them they could
tdlk hardships till the cows
came home, with gentlemanly
understatement, in order of
rank.
< ‘ L_f ARDSHIPS! ” exploded
1 * Desmond in the Africa
Bar at Cairo, banging his fist
down on the marble table-top.
“ ’Ardships!” he whined mock-
ingly, his lean face twisted and
the fair hair falling over his
light-blue eyes. “What an awful
lot of bloody rot!” Desmond
had been drinking more than
was good for him, and the past
and the present were getting
mixed up in his head.
“Steady,” said Stan, patting
him gently on the shoulder with
his great paw of a hand. “Steady,
now. Tommy. You don’t want
to spill the grog, do you—this
wonderful Gyppo grog?” Stan
had grey hair and grey piercing
eyes and a brick-red face with
a jutting chin. He had a slow,
ironic smile, a little crooked, and
a slow voice that came up in
quiet rumbles from the depths
of a hairy chest. Stan’s torso
was immense, almost grotesque,
and it didn’t seem properly to
belong to that carved, dignified
face and thick grey hair. Stan
was an exception to the general
rule —he took up drinking again
in Egypt as though the years of
abstinence in Germany had
never been. A marvel, really, he
drank whisky by choice, and the
only changes in him were a
deeper flush in his hard, strong
face, a slower drawl to his quiet,
rumbling voice and the growth
of a sort of kindly paternalism,
of pomposity, in his manner,
which remained admirably quiet
and decent. As though he were
quietly sorry for the bulk of
mankind for not being born in
Australia, on the land, where
they could drive into town to a
friendly pub and talk about
sensible things like sheep and
horses and good whisky.
It was this preference for quiet
drinking that had brought Stan
Wills and Tommy Desmond to-
gether. They had been in the
same camp in Upper Silesia, and
Desmond had often looked at
Stan curiously. His bulk and his
piercing eyes intrigued Des-
mond. But they rarely spoke to
each other, the dull routine of
their lives following different
paths. Then, at Heluon-les-
Bains Stan had come up to him
and rumbled affably “You strike
me as a bloke who likes a quiet
drink without any of this”—a
contemptuous wave of his paw
at their comrades sitting around
them in the cafd noisily drinking
—“rot. What about coming into
Cairo with me?”
“All right,” said Desmond,
feeling rather flattered, but ap-
prehensive, too, because he
knew his idea of a quiet drink
was vastly different from Stan’s.
That was a week ago. They
were still in Cairo, having
picked up the glib fighter-pilot,
who answered to Jimmy, at
Shepheards, Jimmy proved to
be quite a decent bloke on closer
acquaintance, with a disarming
dash of insanity in his make-up.
Just now he was feeling very
sick.
Jimmy raised a white and
woeful face from his folded
arms. “Don’t do that, Des-
mond,” he begged. “Thump the
table. It thunders through my
head.”
“Sorry,” said Desmond. “But
you know how it is, Jimmy,
don’t you—it is a lot of rot —
isn’t it, Jimmy? A sort of com-
petition of misery. As if it
proves anything. If one man
was hit on the head with a rifle
in Marburg or another was
kicked in the backside in Thorn.
I’ll tell you what it is, Jimmy—
it’s undignified. That’s what it
is.”
“Yes,” groaned Jimmy,
settling his nest of black hair on
the sleeves of the summer uni-
form with the squadron-leader’s
rings. “Yes. Quite.”
“I’m glad you agree with me,”
said Desmond. “What we
need” ——
“What we need,” rumbled
Stan, “is a feed. George!”
The smiling Egyptian ap-
peared beside the table.
“Bacon and eggs,” ordered
Stan, “For three.”
Jimmy raised his white face.
“Not for me, Stan. No.”
“Cripes,” said Desmond. “I
do need a feed. I didn’t know
it, but I do. Bacon and eggs,
eh? Reminds me of the Aus-
tralia Club at Alex. Coming in
on leave from Ikingi. If you
were well in with the big black
major-domo you could get as
many tickets as you liked for
the price of one. I could eat
then. I can’t now.”
“Bacon and eggs,” said Stan
firmly, “for three. It’ll do you
good, Jimmy. You mightn’t
think so now, but it will. And
George”—Stan’s voice arrested
the waiter in flight, tilting back
his fez and alert, slightly pock-
marked face inquiringly. “Grog.
While we’re waiting. The same
again.”
“I don’t know if I can come
at it,” said Desmond, “I feel
a bit crook, Stan.”
“Just one,” said Stan sooth-
ingly. “Right-oh, George. The
same again.”
The fez nodded energetically.
“Yes, George.” Bare feet
slithered across the dusty tiles.
“You’re a wonder, Stan,”
Jimmy said, briefly raising his
troubled white face. “Were you
reared on the stuff?”
“Perhaps I was.” Stan pulled
a pipe out of his shirt pocket,
fiddled and poked at the tobacco
with his strong fingers, struck
a match and began to smoke
with quiet enjoyment.
It was well past midnight, and
they had had a full day.
Breakfast in their room
at the unobtrusive Greek
pension Stan had discovered.
Rolls and delicious black coffee,
and a bottle of cognac to steady
them. “This is the life,” Stan
drawled, sitting up on the
crumpled bed in his underpants,
beads of sweat collecting in the
jungle of his immense chest. It
was already high morning, as the
hard shafts of light slitted
through the Venetian - blinds
showed. He had a roll in one
hand, a glass of cognac in the
other Below them they could
hear the babel of the street. “No
fuss.”
“This is the life,” Desmond
echoed, glancing at the
“Egyptian Gazette.” He saw the
headlines, but his mind could
not concentrate on reading
further. He helped himself to
the cognac.
The black porter brought up
their laundry—clean shirts and
shorts. These, with long sox
and suede shoes and Australian
hats and plain webbing belts,
completed their equipment. One
thing about suede shoes, they
don’t need cleaning. And they
were part of the swagger of the
British Army in the Middle
East.
Desmond looked at his watch
—an expensive Swiss watch he
had bought the day before.
“Time we got a move on.”
Stan glanced at his even more
expensive watch, which he had
bought at the same time. “We’ll
have a drink first.”
Dressed in the fresh starched
khaki, they went, according to
routine, to the Turkish-bath,
where the fat Russian woman
locked them in the hot-box, and
joked with them about their
enforced celibacy in Germany
while she kneaded and slapped
their naked bodies.
“It sweats the grog out of
you,” said Stan, apropos the
Turkish-baths; which struck
Desmond as a sufficiently
eccentric reason for the ritual,
since their day was chiefly
devoted to putting the grog back
in. “And,” said Stan, vigorously
soaping himself under the
shower, “it gets the grime of
Germany out of your hide.”
“Out of your soul,” muttered
Desmond, who suspected a
deeper psychological reason for
this fanatical cleanliness,
although he was obsessed by it.
Then the barber’s shop, where
a young Oriental shaved them
skilfully and tenderly with an
exquisitely keen razor, after
lathering them with cold water.
A face massage and a shampoo,
and they were fit to face the
hot day. They had experi-
mented with a few boulevard
cafes that morning, in one of
which they encountered some of
their comrades, cooeeing. Lunch
at Shepheards, where they had
picked up Jimmy, and then they
had gone to watch the big
Rugby Union match between
the South Africans and the New
Zealanders. After dinner,
Groppy’s.
The routine had persisted,
more or less, for a week. Some-
times Desmond became nervous.
“We’re a.w.1., you know, Stan—
technically. Don’t you think we
should go back to the hospital?”
“Rot,” said Stan placidly.
“Why should we? The ship
doesn’t go for a couple of weeks.
We’re better off here. This is
what we need—not hospital.
The M.Ps. are giving us a fair
go. We’ve got plenty of money
—you’re not short, are you? If
you are, just sing out. We’re
jake.”
They had plenty of money.
Money, indeed, had lost value
for them during their years in
Germany. Desmond sometimes
found himself staring curiously
at a crumpled Egyptian note,
before tossing it to a waiter or a
gharry driver. The dirty paper
seemed to have only a whimsical
significance. Stan had huge
wads stuck in various pockets—
he had drawn on his account at
Barclay’s Bank as soon as they
arrived.
They lived in a pleasant haze.
But occasionally Desmond had
attacks of irritable conscience.
“I’m not well off, Stan, you
know. I shouldn’t be spending
so much. Should be saving it.”
To which Stan invariably
replied, in his lazy rumble, “Rot.
It’s good for you.”
But sometimes it was Stan
who would say, urgently: “A
man should buy some things for
the family, Tommy. A man’s a
selfish cow, just spending money
on himself.” And sometimes
Desmond would have a poignant
longing to be out of Cairo, away
from North Africa, with its
strange, corrupt flavor of
luxury and squalor, color, bar-
barity and decay, to go home.
The feeling would become chok-
ing-strong, but they could not
hurry the hospital ship, which
was due at Tewfik in two weeks ;
or perhaps three; or in a
month’s time. It was wise to
shut one’s mind to the danger-
ously powerful emotion and to
have another drink.
(Continued on page 20.)


The Bulletin
Vol. 71—No. 3691
Wednesday, November 8, 1950
fOCIALIStI
IONTROLS
HOXEF
THE HABITUAL.
“Same again—only bigger.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
NIGGER IN THE COAL-HEAP
If efforts to increase production of
essential goods at lower costs are to
have any success, the Governments
concerned dare not delay much longer in
tackling first things first, with such col-
laboration as they can get from a
Micawber-like community. Apart from
what “S. M. Herald” justly calls “the
high price of taking things easy” in the
matter of daily work, the problem
of “higher production” could be
vastly simplified by two corrections:
a greater output of coal and a relief of
the virtual blockade of our own shipping
in our own ports.
The unions concerned in both of these
bottlenecks are those which Communist
executives most tightly control. Every-
body knows why these wreckers are still
free to work their will, and even to laugh
in the face of a Commonwealth Govern-
ment pledged to get coal and to tackle
the causes of inflated costs which are
rapidly making hay of the national
economy. In the matter of coal the
“Labor” Government of N. S. Wales
bears a joint responsibility with the
Commonwealth, and the spotlight is on
coal because, as a Research Service in-
vestigator wrote the other day—“ Wha-
tever spectacular skirmishes may take
place or be threatened in Canberra against
inflation, the issue will not begin to be
decided until the battle of coal is fought.”
During 41 weeks to October 21 of the
current year the output of coal from
N.S.W, fields was 10,214,532 tons, in-
cluding 1,257,765 from opencut workings,
a weekly average of 249,000 tons, and the
loss through petty strikes was 1,184,418
tons, a weekly average of nearly 29,000
tons. The Joint Coal Board estimated
last March that the weekly requirement
of N.S.W. coal consumers in all States
was 270,000. It is believed to be no mere
coincidence that the restriction of output
caused by stoppages just about makes the
difference between getting-by and a coal
famine. An additional lifting of the
“darg” on output —even with the working
of a single shift —would, on these figures,
set all industry on its feet.
The limited weekly output of 249,000
tons includes opencut coal, a steadily-
rising item —which makes the underground
yield look worse still, and installation of
mechanical equipment has made no im-
pression on annually-falling man-hour
production. On the weekly average thus
far, the coal yield this year will be not
more than 11,958,000 tons, whereas
J.C.B. set forth requirements at 15,800,000
tons and production as likely to be
13.000. The estimated shortage,
2,800,000 tons, will thus be more like
4.000. Seeing that 11,958,000 tons
for the year records merely a continuance
of the mournful stagnation in coal yield
since 1942, any citizen interested in
getting down the high cost of living can
construct for himself the prospect in the
years immediately ahead from these
further prognostications published by
J.C.B. (established five years ago by
Commonwealth and N.S.W. Governments
to get coat) :
1951: Requirements, 16.5 million tons;
production, 14.2 millions; shortage, 2.3
millions.
1952: Requirements, 17.3 millions; pro-
duction, 16.1 millions; shortage, 1.2 mil-
lions.
1953: Requirements, 18 millions; pro-
duction, 18.8 millions; surplus, 0.8 millions.
These figures are for N.S.W. coal only.
“Requirements” excludes coal wanted for
restocking of reserves.
There is the picture. The prospect for
this year is of a deficiency of about 25
per cent, in coal necessary to keep in-
dustry at normal tempo. At least
1.000. tons will have to be imported
to help industry out, at a cost of about
half as much again as Australian coal
costs, though that detail also is becoming
quite speculative, “We are all on our
knees to the miners,” said Mr. Justice
Foster in the Arbitration Court during the
basic-wage hearing, “begging them to get
us more coal.” He added; “The miner
jyorks a 371-hour week, has other ameni-
ties, sick and annual leave. He even gets
free football trousers.”
Last December the Menzies Govern-
ment was elected to power with a policy
on coal. Said Mr. Menzies in his policy
speech:
Without coal we can have neither full
employment nor full production. We must
therefore get coal We shall retain the
Joint Coal Board for an important func-
tion. The board will set a target for each
mine of production to meet current require-
ments and reasonable reserve. Further, we
shall work out with the board and with
representatives of employers and employees
in the industry a scheme of incentives
under which special reward will come
to employees reaching or exceeding the
quota
The Prime Minister is evidently convinced
that he has no hope of any such arrange-
ment with the -Communists bossing the
miners’ executive. They have said so.
■What hope has he of gingering up the
Coal Board?
It might be easier to answer this ques-
tion if the board had issued its last two
annual reports. But it has not. Nor
has any statement of the board’s accounts
passed by the Auditor-General been pub-
lished since the board’s inception. The
public is without information on what
the board thinks of its prospects of dis-
ciplining an unruly minority of miners
for petty stoppages or of getting the
Miners’ Federation to discipline them, of
lifting the “darg,” of mechanising the
mines within any reasonable period of
time, of getting great masses of pillar-
coal quickly lifted out by machines (the
public has never got an eyeful of those
bank-vaults of coal), or of inducing two
Governments in alleged double-harness to
listen to its woes. It seems that
the board has not been able even to per-
suade the two Governments to agree
entirely on the form in which the board’s
accounts shall be presented.
Of course, if the high cost of living
doesn’t really matter, none of these things
matter either.
On to the Kremlin.
_ _ , ~ ~ , „. . .
° N October 26, the day on which British
Parliament was prorogued as a prelimi-
nai T t 0 1116 institution of another session,
Mr - Attlee s P oke ceremonially at the
ope T g ° f T Ule ”. ew Hous ,t ° £ c C °!T on ?
J 2 In we ‘ c °T 8 - h f Speakers of
the . D .r.'T and C ° lo Ti
Sald tb f t .. they bodies which
were all examples of the most successful
method ever devised of combining effec-
tive government by the majority with full
respect for the views of the minority.”
That, of course, is not true of many
of the new nations which Mr. Attlee and
b is Government have been responsible
f or crea ting in the past few years. It is
scarcely true of the Indias, where the
majorities connive at the frequent murders
D f large numbers of minorities, and where,
generally, respect is paid to the tradition
which Mr. Attlee lauded only with the
a id of the nearest lethal weapon. It is
not true of Burma, where what pro-
fesses to represent the majority has been
at deadly war with several minorities
which in the aggregate might form a
greater bulk of popular opinion than the
Government party if they could
achieve a common viewpoint. It is
not true even of the United Kingdom,
where the first-past-the-post system and
some mild gerrymandering make it pos-
sible for members to secure election with
a minority of total votes and for Mr.
Attlee to hang on to the Prime Minister-
ship after the country had cast only
13,300,000 votes for Labor against
15,000,000-odd for other parties.
The Socialist Government of Britain
has shown little regard for the will of
the majority, much less of any minority,
as expressed at the beginning of this year,
The results of the general election in
February showed a definite swing away
from Socialist “Labor” which reduced
that irresponsible party to the point of
surviving often only through grace of its
invalids, dragging them into the House
to vote in every kind of packing short
f J
T e u • • ur
In the face of obvious growing public
opposition to Socialism the Government
has gone ahead recklessly with measures
approaching a climax in its nationalisa-
tion of iron and steel, which means, in the
nat ure of things, virtually socialisation of
a ii industrial life in the “free” United
Kingdom,
This was capped four days after Mr.
Attlee’s admirable and hypocritical speech
of October 26 by the announcement in
the King’s Speech that the Government
will take steps to give permanency to
temporary war-time powers of govern-
ment-by-regulation in all matters affect-
ing production, distribution and con-
sumption.
These powers affect employment, retail
prices, shipping, building, export, the
right of men to work where they will and
the right of private enterprise to develop
according to the natural principles of com-
merce.
What can be expected from the Attlee
Government when given permanent power
to govern by regulation can be deduced
from its past record. It went into office
in 1945 firmly pledging itself to rid the
country of war-time regulations as soon
as possible. Not only Mr. Attlee but
all his leading Ministers emphasised this
promise. But from the moment
the new Ministry settled itself into
the saddle it lost no chance to
strengthen its own power at the expense
of that of Parliament and to widen the
authority of the bureaucrats. It immedi-
ately passed an Act to extend its war-time
powers for stated periods, and set up
organisations to make it as difficult as
possible without complicated administra-
tive changes to go back to a state of
pre-war freedom. It has maintained
throughout its reign the right of direction
of labor. It has built up an army of
snoopers with the right of household
search without warrants, and it has piled
order on order and control on control
until the whole life of the community is
affected down to its roots.
It has regulated industry obviously with
an eye to future nationalisation, and its
control of the Press through restriction
of paper supplies is more political than
economic.
Socialism and Parliamentary constitu-
tionalism cannot go hand in hand, and
the destruction of Parliamentary govern-
ment is, and must be, a fundamental of
Socialist conceptions. In Australia it was
accepted as such from the start, Mr.
Scullin at the conference which drafted
the Australian socialisation objective
plumping straight out for the replacement
of the legislature by an economic council
chosen by workers’ bodies which would
be “supreme” in the economic, and there-
fore in all industrial and general, spheres
affecting the ordinary life of the com-
munity. The conference adopted his
viewpoint.
In point of fact, such a body already
exists both in Britain and in Australia.
In both countries when “Labor” is in
power the real rulers are not to be found
in the Parliament, but in the small and
unrepresentative “Labor”-party execu-
tives which give their orders to caucus.
The Commonwealth recently has had a
fine example of the working of this
system of government-by-minority in the
forcing on the “Labor” Opposition at
Canberra of a complete change of atti-
tude to the Communist-party Dissolution
Bill. Both here and in the United
Kingdom it needs only the permanent
adoption of the theory of government-
by-regulation into constitutional practice
to destroy the whole fabric of British
freedom and replace it by a system almost
parallel to that of Moscow, where the
real legislature is not the “Parliament”
elected on a single-party system, nor the
Ministry, which is a group of civil
servants, but the Politburo of the Com-
munist party of Soviet Russia.
Both in the United Kingdom and Aus-
tralia Parliament has become a mere
registering-machine when “Labor” is “in
power,” doing the bidding of an outside
body chosen in the darkness of union and
trades-hall back-rooms behind closed
doors. All that stands between the people
and complete tyranny is the fact that so
far those who control “Labor” have not
been able to destroy the right of the
people to free elections, though the de-
struction of that right is gradually being
brought about, and will indubitably be
consummated whenever “Labor” has a
period in office long enough to allow it
and its masters to achieve their purpose.
In Queensland the electoral system has
been destroyed in its essentials by plain,
straightforward gerrymandering which
assures that “Labor” is almost certain to
win every general election even with an
all-round aggregate majority of votes
against it.
It seems likely that the move of the
British Government will lead to a general
election, and if the Attlees are not then
decisively defeated the results will be
momentous. The British Commonwealth
has been more than half-liquidated by
the present crowd in office, and the
adoption by the nation of its new
Socialist principles will go a long way
towards completing the ruin of what a
few years ago held unchallenged pride of
place as the world’s greatest Power.
There is unlikely to be any place in a
socialised Commonwealth which Canada
would feel inclined to fill. The United
States will regard the drift towards
Moscow with alarm and distrust,
immediately accentuated by the omission
from the King’s speech of any references
to America’s recent services to civilisa-
tion, and to the British communities in
particular. The drift in the Australasian
Dominions is away from Socialism, of
which both we and the Maorilanders have
had our fill. The adoption of the newest
Attlee plan will certainly not help to link
Commonwealth countries more closely.
The Attlee Government moves nearer
to the Kremlin every day.
Shotgun Conciliation.
As a Victorian I speak feelingly when I
say that if the appointment of concilia-
tion commissioners will have the effect of
preventing these infernal strikes, such as
those which are afflicting Victoria at the
present time, this legislation will be well
justified I hope this legislation will
prove successful, but I am not rapturous
about it.
These were the comments three and a
half years ago by the late Frank Brennan,
M.P., a "Labor” ex-Attorney-General, in
the debate on Dr. Evatt’s dubious bill to
assist Arbitration Court judges with a
corps of lay Conciliation Commissioners,
and so to “streamline” the process of
preventing strikes. There was a railway
strike on in Victoria then as there has
been intermittently in that State’s rail-
ways or trams ever since. Conciliation
Commissioners might never have been
appointed for all the effect they have had
on Communist Brown’s Victorian rail-
waymen or Communist O’Shea’s Vic-
torian trammies. The same goes for the
metal trades. Dr. Evatt at the time of
introducing the bill was warned of the
fallacy of this disguised pandering to
militant union sentiment as shown in
the treatment at that time of the court’s
chief Conciliation Commissioner, Mr.
Mooney, by the A.C.T.U., because his
proposed award in a metal-trades case
was not what the union wanted.
Parliament and the country heard then,
in the first year of the Chifley Govern-
ment’s last ignominious term, what that
Government’s supporters expected of the
“streamlined” legislation. It was the
appointment of commissioners from
among union officials to prevent strikes by
giving discontented unions what they
wanted, and without appeal from a
“streamlined” Conciliation Commis-
sioner’s award. That was the “Labor”
idea, and individual members of caucus
as well as unions outside made that clear
when some of the actual appointments
did not please them. There were ample
warnings from the Liberal and Country
parties that the no-appeal provision was
a hideous mistake —that thereunder,
while employers would have to take a
“conciliation” award without hope of
relief, there was nothing to bind a union
from strike action if it should so prefer.
“Rough justice and no waste of time
about it” was the order, and if the other
side, or the public, got hurt that didn't
matter.
Dr. Evatt ignored all this. He started
off by affecting to bring some sort of a
golden age to the late Justice Higgins’s
“new province of law and order,” and he
would tolerate no doubt concerning the
assured success of his sublime though
partisan prescription for the removal of
all causes of “these infernal strikes.”
“The new emphasis,” he said, “must be
on informality as opposed to formalism.”
Arbitration-court procedures make pos-
sible delays, doubts and obstructions at the
most critical incipient stages of disputes.
These procedures will all be remedied. The
simple provisions of the bill are
designed to enable commissioners to inter-
vene long before differences between parties
become irrevocably defined.
This from an ex-High Court judge speak-
ing after Australia’s nearly 50 years’ ex-
perience of the travail of establishing
a rule of law alongside “the right to
strike.”
Setting aside the instances where, under
the “Labor”-made inflation of the
national economy, the Conciliation Com-
missioners have simply awarded increases
of margins to applicant unions—cut-and-
come-again style the “streamlined”
system seems to have produced no
ending of strikes, no grappling with a dis-
pute before it could break out, and even
open union defiance of several senior
commissioners who did not simply deal
out appeasement.
The disgraceful railway strike in Vic-
toria was ordered by a Communist-led
executive of the railways union and (by
similar ukase) extended for sheer
nuisance-value to S.A. in a continuing
strike and to N.S.W. in two successive
Monday stoppages, in order to coerce a
Conciliation Commissioner who refused
to register a conditional agreement pro-
cured from the Victorian Railways Com-
missioners under duress. So the con-
ciliator concerned found, and the strike-
leaders rejected that statement, too. They
made a strike issue of a demand that they
should be free to dictate an award, strike
to enforce it, and if necessary get an
appeal to the court on it. Piloting
the bill through with an air of
omniscience, guillotining it finally, Dr.
Evatt rejected all warnings about this
sort of outcome of his grafting of “in-
formality” upon the court’s established
legal processes. The Federal A.L.P.
executive apparently had given its orders.


PLAIN ENGLISH
At War with China.
The complications produced in the Asian
situation by the presence of Chinese
Communist troops in Korea and by the
invasion of Tibet, whose capital was in
the hands of a fifth-column at the week-
end, are almost beyond measure.
Communist China has, in effect, gone
to war with the civilised world under the
direction of Moscow. The announce-
ment of Moscow Radio that it believes
the United States is involved in a con-
spiracy to conquer Asia and the world
is indication enough for thinking people
of how far the contest may go.
The Chinese war on the United Nations
forces in North Korea is on such a scale
that the battles there are no longer being
conducted between U.N.O. troops and
Koreans, but against Chinese almost
wholly.
The Chinese have very large available
forces, well armed by the Russians,
largely out of the Japanese arsenals
grabbed in flat breach of agreement with
the Allies, who did the whole of the
fighting in the Pacific war —the United
States, Great Britain, Australia and the
other British Dominions and Nationalist
China. China can put in vast forces if
need be, and perhaps some Russian Mon-
golian and Siberian divisions indis-
tinguishable from the rest. And the
United Nations will be forced either to
go on and on piling up divisions on a
world-war scale or let Korea go and leave
Japan threatened under whatever peace
arrangement is made.
As the Russians view this situation
they must laugh uproariously. As much
as a quarter of a century ago, as shown
by the revelations of Bessedovsky, one of
their “escaped” diplomats, the plan of
Moscow was to oust Japan from Man-
churia and “try by every means to in-
tensify the Chinese revolution, in order
to turn out the English and threaten their
position in India.” From 1931 onwards
the world propaganda of Communism
was directed to these ends, and it was
swallowed whole by almost the entire
“capitalist” Press of the world.
Russia after World War II was
given Dairen and adjacent terri-
tory “in trust”; it made it a per-
manent part of the new Tsarist empire
without much protest from the Allies.
The Kremlin needed this in its plan for
the domination of Asia and the Pacific
as it needed the Kuriles and other bits of
island territory north of Japan which
were handed over on a plate. It has
had all the gains of the war both in
Europe and in Asia, while the remainder
of the nations of the earth have been
hung with responsibilities which are likely
to prove a huge handicap when they are
forced to defend themselves against
further Russian aggression.
Having shown bad faith in every re-
lationship with other nations, treachery
in every friendship, and rapacity and
menace towards others in general, the
Kremlin is smoothly asking the Foreign
Ministers of other great Powers to con-
fer so as to unify Germany, produce
Austrian and Japanese peace treaties and
outlaw the atom-bomb and expansion of
armament.
There does not seem to be much
further point in discussion with Russia.
The world will be in a safer position
when threatened Governments in the
Western world admit the position, which
is that we are involved in actual war with
the Soviet Union, even if that blood-
drunk tyranny is not yet using its own
armies but only those of its slave States
and satellites against us.
Elections Inevitable.
That this Federal Parliament is unwork-
able needs no further demonstration. That
“Labor” has deliberately set out to make
it unworkable has been apparent since
the opening week last February, and the
design was proclaimed by a leading mem-
ber of the late Chifley Ministry 12
months before this Parliament was re-
turned. The planned instrument of this
obstruction is the enlarged and hybrid
Senate, prepared for the purpose by the
late “Labor” Ministry in anticipation of
its own decease.
There would have been an end to the
Parliament by double-dissolution last
month if the obstructionists had not at
the last moment surrendered on the anti-
communist Bill rather than face the elec-
tors. Obstruction to the Senate Refer-
endum (dissolution-deadlock) Bill and to
the Banking Bill —for the latter the
Menzies Government had ample man-
date from the elections of last December
—is following the same course. The final
gesture by the Senate majority last week
of referring the Bank Bill (on its second
submission after the prescribed interval)
to a select committee was a straight chal-
lenge to the Government to take the
whole issue to the country.
Leaving aside propagandist doubts
about the Government’s tactics in timing,
a matter on which there can be no doubt
whatever is that this Parliament is
doomed anyhow before next autumn.
“Labor” can only delay, not prevent, dis-
missal of both Houses and new general
elections. Delay can only bring an
accentuation of our economic troubles
during such a period of enforced stag-
nation in the legislature, and the national
interests therefore coincide with the
Government’s right to a Parliament which
can function. Moreover, whatever doubts
may exist on interpretation of the rele-
vant clause in the Constitution, it is clear
that the Menzies Government’s complaint
is of delays in the Senate, and, this being
so, it dare not condone any delay on its
own part in ending the obstruction at the
earliest moment by the only procedure
open to it.
“Labor” cannot put up an alternate
Government to make this Parliament
workable, and its actions proclaim as
loudly as any representations Mr. Menzies
can make that it means to prevent in this
Parliament the King’s government from
being carried on at all.
Prefabricated.
In the last few years there has been so
much talk of prefabricated houses that
no one could be blamed for believing
that Britain and the Continent were piled
mountains-high with neatly-packaged
homes done up in cellophane and ready
for immediate delivery to any place in
Australia complete to the last bath-plug.
This isn’t exactly the case, but the report
of the mission which went abroad a few
months ago to check the possibilities
indicates that, if Australia is prepared to
take them, there are 20,000 prefabs avail-
able this financial year and 40,000 next
year. The Federal Government is sub-
sidising the import of ready-to-wear
homes, and a bill authorising advances to
the States for that purpose was passed
by both Houses last week.
“Labor” did not oppose the bill, but
several of its members spoke as though
they would have liked to do so had they
dared. To Senator O’Flaherty prefabs
are “slum dwellings”—hot in summer and
cold in winter. He would rather see
restrictions placed on the export of
galvanised-iron, the quantity thus saved
to be used for the construction of homes.
The Senator didn’t actually say it, but
he seemed to imply that g.-i. houses are
the reverse of prefabs, being cool in
summer and warm in winter. This, pos-
sibly, is achieved by putting the iron on
inside out.
Senator Cameron left no doubt at all
as to his attitude. He told the Senate
I believe the policy of the Government
is to keep the workers down on the border-
line of semi-starvation just as long as they
are prepared to tolerate it.
That sounded almost as though he had
inadvertently slipped in a paragraph from
one of his speeches of forty years ago,
but apparently it had some bearing on
the matter, because he added
By importing prefabricated houses, made
by cheap labor, rather than pay the extra
money for the building of houses here, you
are not providing an incentive for the
workers.
No one else put it exactly like Donald,
but the burden of most criticisms of
prefabs is that their importation is likely
to have a bad effect on the building
industry.
This argument is hardly in accord with
present-day realities. Latest estimate of
current building needs, allowing for
growth of population by natural increase
and immigration and for overtaking the
back-log within a reasonable period, is
in the vicinity of 90,000-100,000 homes
a year. Last year’s output was 52,000.
This figure can certainly be increased, but
no one expects it to be doubled this year
or next year. It is no use merely plan-
ning to step up the building rate gradually
until the deficit is overcome. There will
still be people needing homes in ten
years’ time, but we don’t want them to
be the same people who are wanting
them now.
When the Need Calls.
All Australia was shocked when it was
found that the two small boys missing
from Portland (N.S.W.) had died from
exhaustion and exposure in a quarry-hole
in the very midst of the 3000 people
anxiously searching for them. Eight and
seven years old respectively, they left a
sports-meeting together, evidently went
birds’-nesting in the quarry, got into a
cave and couldn’t get out again. Though
men worked in a tunnel underneath them,
their cries went unheard.
The search and its pathetic end proved
once more that a community can unite
when the need arises. All Portland
ceased work and business to look for the
boys miners, clerks, shopkeepers,
bosses, professional men and the
women gathered to provide food and hot
tea for the weary hunters, some of whom
toiled through the hills and gullies sur-
rounding the town for 24 hours on end.
Nobody demanded overtime or compen-
sation ; all cheerfully did what they
could. Someone has estimated that in
the five-day search £20,000 was lost in
wages.
On Monday mines and quarries
stopped for the afternoon, business in
Portland ceased and practically everybody
attended the funeral services. The miners
pooled their pay for the day and gave it
to the bereaved parents. It all shows
that, at heart, Australians are funda-
mentally decent, whatever their social
position or politics. The pity of it is
that it usually takes a tragedy to bring
out the best in them.
The Maoriland Pound.
From Auckland: New Zealand Socialists
have seized on the soaring cost of living
as a rod to beat the back of the Holland
Government, and have made the most of
rises that are traced back to last May’s
price-subsidy cuts on food, fuel and rail-
way fares, or to lifting of controls. The
Socialists don’t make allowance for spiral-
ling trends in world prices or for rises
that have filtered in from outside through
many channels, but lay the whole of the
blame at the door of “free enterprise.”
Prime Minister Holland and his team
are worried over the rises, and say so;
what they can’t do is stop them. They’re
most concerned of all over the squeeze
on lower-income groups and pensioners,
who have been left a long way behind
since prices got on the run again six
months back. Before this, under the
steadying influence of Maoriland’s “new-
look” pound, it seemed that prices were
levelling out and that inflation was being
reined in—the main weakness was on the
monetary side, as the Socialists couldn’t
bring themselves to stop the flow of new
credit. Early this year the prospect was
for a respite from rising wages and prices,
until the blow to subsidies transferred
£l2 million annually at one stroke from
the national budget to family budgets
just when devalued sterling was beginning
to have its price-lifting effect on a wide
range of imports, and only a month or
two before the war in Korea boosted
Government spending all round the
world, to give prices their biggest push
for a long time.
These reverses were a blow on the
chin for Maoriland’s Government as it
was settling down to business. Nation-
ally, the boom in wool should go a long
way to restore its spirits, for the gain
should be a good deal more than the
country needs to offset the extra cost of
imports this year —the wool cheque
promises to reach nearly £9O million,
about double last year’s peak—but this
won’t help all Maorilanders together.
It will be months before much help comes
the way of wage- and salary-earners, and
of those on the economic borderline many
will be caught in the cost-price pincers.
When it’s all boiled down, the crux
of the trouble seems to be that Maori-
land has a crop of unsolved problems,
inherited from the Socialists. Surplus
money, underproduction, record taxation,
uneven performance by labor and
management in industry, lack of man-
power, a go-easy attitude in the trades
and professions, pressure from the rear
on the pegged exchange, inflated over-
heads and the dead hand of controls that
haven’t been cast off yet are all contri-
buting factors, and all are difficult to
tackle. Until real headway is made
against them there’s not much hope of
achieving what Maorilanders most
demand: that value be pumped back
into their pound. Over the past decade
half its pre-war purchasing-power has
vanished, and lately the pressure has
come heavily on housewives.
Exit a Jester.
For 94 years—or, at any rate, for the
half-century in which he has been a
public figure —Bernard Shaw served
England as its official Jester, and the
whole civilised world is going to miss
him.
The Jester, of course, was always a
most serious and important functionary.
Generally regarded as half-crazy and
half-inspired, he was privileged to tell
the medieval kings the dreadful truths
that nobody else dared to.
An Irishman, a wit and an artist, and
therefore on all three counts not held
fully responsible for his actions, Shaw
was a privileged person from the start.
And so, when a school asked him to
donate a prize, he offered an annual
award for the worst-behaved boy; and
when he reflected on social conditions in
England and compared the luxurious
existence of pheasants, preserved in
noblemen’s parks, with the life of children
in the slums, he suggested that the sport
of shooting children should be intro-
duced.
Nobody made the mistake of taking
this devastating critic of society too
lightly; Shaw himself made sure he
always got a hearing. And probably only
the Fabian Socialists made the mistake
of taking him too seriously, and, climbing
into power under Mr. Attlee, straight-
jacketed England, squandered its finan-
cial heritage and gave half the Empire
away . . . while Shaw, much too sensible
to believe in his own doctrines, married
an heiress, earned a second fortune
from his royalties, and raged mightily
against taxation and death duties.
London “Evening News” once asked
Shaw to write his own epitaph, and he
drew a weed-grown tombstone with
the lines inscribed on it, “Hie jacet
BERNARD SHAW—Who the Devil was
He?” But that, from the author of 50
plays, some of them faded with time,
some of them as good as Sheridan’s and
all of them unique in the history of the
English theatre, was just a bit of Shavian
nonsense. He came nearer to a true
summary—so long as you have a proper
respect for the genius of laughter—when
he went backstage once to shake hands
with Whimsical Walker, and, on the
comedian’s thanking him for the visit,
said, “But it’s just one old clown shaking
hands with another.”
Shaw’s bibliographer. Dr. F. E. Lowen-
stein, said “This is the end of an epoch”
when Shaw died, and most people feel
the same ; but exactly what epoch it is not
easy to define. It is not the tradition of
comedy on the English stage, for we
have Christopher Fry; it is not Fabian
Socialism, for we have—alas —Mr. Attlee.
Perhaps it is an era of light-hearted
liberalism: the knowledge that truth is
many-sided, and the feeling that, nine
times out of ten, it is a mistake to take
things too seriously. And nine times
out of ten it is worth remembering.
Ptayford Wants More.
Not the least important of the industrial
phenomena apparent in Australia in the
past decade is the emergence of South
Australia into the manufacturing field,
so much so that Premier Playford was
able to tell the Commonwealth Grants
Commission last week that if S.A. had
retained the right to levy income tax
it could have made them lower than be-
fore the war and need not have called
upon the Commonwealth for a grant.
However, S.A. hasn’t the right to levy
income tax, and isn’t likely to get it back
in a hurry. So the Premier asked the
commission for £6.3 million for 1950-51,
an increase of roughly a million over
the actual grant. He asked further that
the grant should not include any amount
by reason of the basic-wage increase,
which he expected would cost S.A. up
to £U million.
From the higher tax revenue arising
from the basic-wage inflation, S.A. may
get about £450,000, but as the increase
is likely to cost its Railway Department
£842,000, there isn’t much in that. Cost
of materials for State enterprises, of
course, will be up, and the Main Roads
Commissioner reckons his costs have
risen by 125 p.c. since 1939,
S.A. rail charges have been increased
by 25 p.c., and the State is about to
put a tax of 10 p.c. on all winning bets.
In other ways the Premier hopes to get
what he can from the S.A. people, but, as
he told the commission, making a State
Budget these days is a headache.
To back up the Premier’s request.
Director of Agriculture Callaghan told
the commission that S.A.’s population
would increase so rapidly in the next
decade as to make necessary a big ex-
pansion in land production. The com-
mission must have been impressed by
this ; it flew to Kangaroo Island to in-
spect land-development projects there.
Incentives and Production.
The Australian Workers’ Union has a
long and creditable history, its members
have played a big part in Australian
development and volunteered freely to
fight for Australia in the two World
Wars. It is a firm believer in industrial
arbitration, an opponent of Communism,
and a contributor to Commonwealth and
State politics. Nobody familiar with them
would believe that its members would
deliberately loaf merely to spite a non-
“ Labor” Government.
Yet that is what Mr. Cameron (Lab.,
S.A.) alleged when he told the Federal
Parliament that he had the authority
(Continued on next page.)


■
■
CRAVEN A'
—lor your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable
In 10’s & 20’s
IMW!
6744-R
CARRERAS LTD. - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
of the general president of the A.W.U.
to say that its members “would not co-
operate with the Government so far as
the production effort of Australia is con-
cerned.” This Mr. Cameron is a former
S.A. president of the A.W.U.
Mr. Edmonds (Lab., Ql), a former
Queensland president of the union, wasted
no time in refuting the libel:
It has always been the attitude of the
A.W.U. executive that every maa must do
his best in the interests of the nation.
It is wrong to get the impression that the
A.W.U. has altered that attitude, and I
challenge the authority and right of even
the general president to do so.
The fact that there is an anti-Labor
Government in power is no excuse for any
man in industry not playing his part in
lifting production.
There are ways of dealing with an anti-
Labor Government, but it is not on the
job.
Mr. Edmonds might, had he chosen,
have made his case stronger by remind-
ing the House and radio-listeners that a
goodly part of the A.W.U.’s record in
industrial peace is due to the fact that a
very large proportion of its members —
shearers, cane-cutters, sleeper-cutters,
timber - getters, miners, fruitpickers,
rabbiters, etc. —are piece- or contract-
workers, and the old union has through-
out its history favored the incentive
method of production.
Other unions, or, rather, the leaders of
other unions’ —in particular the Com-
munist leaders —are against incentives,
though J. J. Maloney, M.L.C., a former
Australian Minister in Moscow, stated
that “Whenever possible the system of
piecework prevails throughout the
U.S.S.R the number of workers on
fixed monthly salaries is not more than
30 p.c. of the total working population.”
Communists, of course, are against
anything that will contribute to industrial
peace and the national welfare, for seeds
of violence and loot cannot be sown in a
people who are happy and prosperous in
their work. Non-Communist union
leaders, where not obeying the one-eyed
dictates of political leaders, see in in-
centives a threat to their own power.
The A.W.U. has proved the success of
payment by results, and the system has
never threatened either the power of its
leaders or the union’s standing in the in-
dustrial affairs of the Commonwealth. If
Mr. Edmonds has the courage of his con-
victions, he could do a little proselytising
on the subject, and that might be welcome
in Queensland, which is a strong A.W.U.
State, has suffered dreadfully from strikes
and go-slow in the south, and which re-
turned only three “Labor” members out
of 18 seats in the 1949 Federal election.
POLITICAL POINTS
Whether events in Canberra are moving
towards a climax or whether they are just
moving without getting anywhere or
whether, as appears on the surface, they
are not moving at all, should become
clear within the next few days. If there
is no move this week for a double-dissolu-
tion holders of borderline seals in the
Representatives and Senators likely to
figure well down the list in their party’s
“How-to-Vote” cards will be able to
count on drawing their unearned income
for at least a few more months.
In the battle of tactics the next move
is clearly up to the Government. The
“Labor”-dominated Senate, having at last
gone through the form of passing its
phony Prices Bill, has announced its in-
tention of referring the Bank Bill to a
select committee “for investigation”—this
despite the fact that it has already refused
to accept the clause establishing a Bank
Board, has twice told the Reps of its
refusal and has been instructed by caucus
and the A.L.P. executive to persist in its
refusal. The select committee is obvi-
ously merely a subterfuge devised by
“Labor’s” bright thinkers to postpone an
inevitable double-dissolution —made in-
evitable by “Labor’s” policy of obstruc-
tion.
The Government’s course is clear
Despite its big majority in the Reps it
cannot govern while the Senate, deliber-
ately rigged by its predecessors for the
purpose, thwarts its every attempt to en-
act the programme the electors endorsed
last December. If the Prime Minister
does not ask for a double-dissolution on
the Bank Bill he will make a mockery
of all the accusations he has made against
the Opposition of delaying and hampering
his efforts to govern.
On the tactical side every argument is
in favor of the Government’s acting now.
“Labor” clearly does not want an early
election ; the party is stalling for time in
which to sew patches over some of the
more obvious rips in its union-suit, and
at the same time hoping that rising prices
will tell against the Government. If
Menzies waits, he will be allowing
“Labor” to choose its own time for the
election, with a triennial conference of the
A.L.P. in the meantime at which to con-
solidate its forces.
Earlier in the year it seemed that a
double-dissolution would be futile without
a prior referendum on the method of
voting for the Senate. Under proportional-
representation, with 10 members required
from each State, one party must poll more
than 54j per cent of the votes to obtain
a 6-4 result Anything less means
five-all and, on past voting, an evenly-
divided Senate seems almost certain. How-
ever, the latest Gallup poll suggests that
the Government could at present gain
sufficient votes to give it a majority—a
6-4 result in even one State would be
sufficient to break the deadlock. Even
a 50-50 Senate would be preferable to
the present state of affairs which enables
the Qpposition to take the conduct of the
House out of the hands of the Govern-
ment.
At the weekend there were numerous
reports that people who had gone to bed
with the intention of dreaming the winner
of the Melbourne Cup had awakened to
puzzle over a date which had somehow
intruded into their night visions. It was
December 16.
Counting is now in progress in the U.S.
Congressional elections. Although the
Presidential term is four years, elections
for the House of Representatives are held
every two, half the Senate going to the
polls at the same time. At present
Truman’s Democrats hold a majority in
both Houses—262 to 172 in the Rep-
resentatives and 54 to 42 in the Senate.
In last-minute broadcast appeals to the
nation Truman accused the Republicans
of wanting to lead America once again
on the path of isolation, which “would
be an open invitation for Communist
Imperialism to gobble up the rest of the
world.” Harold Stassen, in reply, blamed
the Democrat Administration for the
Korean war, which, he said, was “the
direct, terrible result of five years’ build-
ing-up of Chinese Communist strength
through blind, blundering, bewildering
American Asiatic policy.”
Republican leaders seemed fully to
expect the attack by a couple of Puerto
Rican gunmen on the guards at President
Truman’s house to clinch the Democrats’
prospects at the elections. The President
has undoubtedly grown in political
stature during his term at the White
House, and his prompt action when the
Korean fighting began could not have
been bettered by the Republicans’ great
hero, “Teddy” Roosevelt himself.
If the strike called by the Communist
executive of the Victorian A.R.U., in
company with certain other railway
unions, were not so serious for the public,
the antics of the striking Government
servants in trying to compel somebody
else to end the strike would be ludicrous.
The union-leaders extracted from the
Railway Commissioners, under duress, a
wage-increase agreement which was ex-
pressed as conditional upon its being
certified (that is, sanctioned as part of
the award) by the Conciliation Commis-
sioner for the railway transport group.
This the said C.C. refused to do as against
his conscience and the public interest.
„ At the weekend the strike bosses had
succeeded in getting the State Govern-
ment to agree that the Railways Com-
missioners and the railway unions should
jointly appeal to the Arbitration Court.
When this issue went to press it was not
known whether the court would consent
to hear the unions’ case while the unions
were still on strike.
To add to the general industrial
mutineering going on in Victoria, the
Commo-run Building Trades Federation
last week declared “black” work on the
Melbourne City Council’s Swan-street
bridge because the Council had refused
to let the Town Hall for one of the Com-
munist “peace” meetings ordered by
Moscow. The purpose behind all this sort
of thing is, of course, to convince the
Australian public that it will be un-
healthy for its Governments to try to rub
out Communist influence in this country.
Haylen, “Labor” member for Parkes,
no longer referred to by admiring Press
boys as a “leading Australian author and
playwright,” had a great chance last
Thursday. Waxing humorous at the ex-
pense of Fadden’s Budget proposals con-
cerning musical instruments and cos-
metics, he had the whole House and
most of those listening-in rolling with
laughter. It was really funny, and if he’d
left it at that Haylen might have won
some admirers. But the old whining
spite was merely dormant; it came out in
full force after the laughter had died
down, whereupon listeners twisted their
dials and honorable members waited
boredly till he’d talked out his time.
Somebody moved an extension of time,
but the House had had it.
About 60 million bushels of wheat is
expected in Victoria and southern
Riverina this season, and the silos there
already hold fairly large lumps of last
season’s grain. The railway strike is now
worrying the Victorian section of the Aus-
tralian Wheat Board, because it can’t get
the old wheat away to make room for the
new, and the new could easily suffer
weevil damage as a result. For this the
growers, not the strikers, would have to
pay.
The Commonwealth-sponsored whaling
outfit has at last, it seems, caught a whale
off the West Australian coast. Whether
the animal was asleep or merely sup-
posed it would only be reported upon
and not killed isn’t clear, but the upshot
was the outfit being charged in Perth
police-court with having taken an illegal
fish, to wit, one below the prescribed
size—it was a whippersnapper less than
35ft. long.
Under a fire of interjections when
talking on his National Health scheme,
Minister Earle Page said the Opposition
obviously didn’t want to listen to him and
moved the gag on himself. If only this
habit would spread, what a lot of business
Parliament could get through in a session!
According to a Liberal-party special
committee, creation of a new State of
New England “could seriously affect the
welfare of the remainder of the State of
N.S.W., which might then be burdened
with continuous Socialist Government.”
So, denied the right to govern them-
selves and cut free from the dead weight
of Sydney, the New Englanders can reflect
that they’re being kept in N.S.W. to
save N.S.W.
Westralians are being asked to decide
by referendum whether or not the State
should go on the waterwagon. The presi-
dent of the miscalled “Temperance”
League is reported as saying that he
doesn’t know where the money for the
campaign will come from, but the League
“will manage somehow.” There is no
mystery about where the money to pay
for the cost of the referendum will come
from ; the taxpayers will have to foot the
bill for the luxury of allowing one section
of the community to try to impose its
will on the rest.
New South Wales law requires art-
unions to allot at least 40 per cent, of
proceeds to prizes. Chief Secretary Clive
Evatt recently spoke sternly of one of the
biggest of these a-home-for-a-bob
gambles, which had allocated only 33.3
per cent, to prizes. Whereupon a nark
pointed out that State Lottery prizes last
year amounted to only 34 per cent, of
proceeds. Clive is going to look into it.
It came out in Queensland Parliament
on Friday that Golden Investments —the
ticket-selling syndicate whose methods
were investigated by a royal commission
—sold 78,804 tickets at ss. 6d. and 46,903
at 10s. to “overseas subscribers” between
February and October. That’s roughly
£43,000-worth of tickets. Prizemoney
won by these tickets ran into nearly
£30,000, which suggests that “overseas
subscribers” are doing fairly well. All
money won by them is paid to Golden
Investments for distribution.
When the N. S. Wales Legislative
Council was debating McGirr’s bill to
nationalise the Balmain Electric Light Co.
it inserted an amendment permitting
Harold D. Ahem, an employee of the
company, to retain his seat in the council
and continue his connection with the
Balmain concern when the Government
takes it over. Under the M. S. Wales
constitution no M.L.C. may remain a
member if he accepts an office of profit
under the Crown. When the bill came
back to the Assembly Opposition-Leader
Treatt opposed the amendment, where-
upon Cahill, the Minister in charge of the
bill, who had moved acceptance of the
clause, switched round and agreed to
its rejection. “Labor” apparently thought
Ahern should be allowed to keep both
jobs, but wasn’t prepared to risk a vote
on it. Mr. Ahern is probably
wondering what fellow-M.L.C. Ferguson
has got that he hasn’t. The Gov-
ernment inserted a special clause in
its Transport Act appointing Ferguson to
the Transport Commission and permit-
ting him to hang on to his privileges as
M.L.C.
This 40-hour week is never done bounc-
ing. Before it was introduced in Queens-
land, beef slaughtermen treated 17 head
of cattle on Saturday mornings under the
minimum-maximum-kill clause of the
award. With the 40-hour week they were
required to add the 17 head to their five-
day tally in order to keep the minimum
up. Now they’ve cut down the kill to
support claims for extra payment for the
17 head. Any Queensland housewife,
short of meat as a result, is welcome to
write to Mr. McGirr, the originator of
the 40-hour week, and tell him what she
thinks.


iw
wm-
Si
'ill V^/JT/oN
m
THE ESSENTIAL.
“It’s all yours—provided you supply what makes it go.”


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“R.W.”; Why all this fuss about the
supply of rice? The last time I tasted it
was in the Muktah’s house in a squalid
Arab village in Palestine. His son, in a
burst of gratitude for a service I had
done him, invited me to his father’s home
for dinner. After much salaaming and
cross-talk, he in Arabic and I in English,
neither understanding the other, we sat
down to a feed of chicken stuffed with
rice and surrounded by a generous help-
ing of the same stuff. The chicken was
quickly and easily
eaten, but before I
tackled the rice I
tried to remember
all I’d ever read of
the customs of the
East. Should I eat
the lot and smack
my lips as a com-
pliment to my
host, or should II
leave some for the
horde of relatives
who were hanging
around the door-
way, watching us with hungry eyes. The
rice itself decided it for me. The first
spoonful brought back memories of fowl-
houses, unclean dairies and countless
Arab villages. The second spoonful was
no better except that I could identify the
farmyard-smell as being that of the
donkey’s stall. That was enough—the
Muktah’s relations got the rest.
* * * *
“Hampton”; Spiritualists (B.
11/10/’50)? A sceptical friend of mine
was persuaded to attend a seance, and at
question-time asked for news of his
father. The medium replied that the
questioner’s father was in Melbourne,
whereupon the unbeliever spoke out
loudly and said “I knew it was all
humbug. My father has been dead for
two years.” The person in charge of the
proceedings was not perturbed. He re-
marked quietly, “I have never known the
medium to be wrong, so I shall put the
question again.” The answer came firmly
and clearly; “The inquirer’s father is in
Melbourne. The man who died two
years ago was his mother’s husband.”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: It was in one of the multi-
tude of street holes which pit the face of
Sydney just now, and a crowd had
gathered to watch the workmen do their
stuff. From the wall of the hole pro-
truded a two-inch pipe with a plug
screwed into it, and the gang was there to
remove the plug and couple on another
length of piping. A small man picked up
» pipe-wrench and made to unscrew the
plug. He couldn’t shift it, so a heftier
fellow had a go. When the plug refused
to budge they dropped that pipe-wrench
and clamped on a bigger one which gave
more leverage. Still the plug remained
obdurate. By this time encouraging re-
marks from die onlookers were dropping
into the hole. On their mettle, the gang
went for that plug, grunted, strained, shed
sweat and used bad language. Then they
stood back while the ganger had a look at
it. “Only one thing to do,” he said. “Cut
the ruddy end off and cut a new thread
on it.” Before that could be done the tea
billies arrived and the gang stopped for
lunch. The crowd drifted away. The
gang was munching its lunch when one
of them suddenly stopped chewing,
leaned down and peered at the plug,
arose, applied the pipe-wrench and easily
unscrewed it. Yes, he’d concluded they’d
been screwing the wrong way, which
shows the advantages of having a thinker
in the team.
* * * *
“Castlereagh”; Many elderly folk who
have saved enough for comfortable retire-
ment find themselves in the same boat as
“Old Unionist’s” friend Charlie (B,
11/10/’5O). One such, not long ago,
joined the firm in which a relative of
mine works. He has good superannuation
and his two unmarried sons live with
him. “That’s the trouble,” he said. “If
the wife and I were on our own I’d sell
the house and buy one at a place where
I could enjoy myself fishing and pottering
about. But in the suburb I live in there’s
nothing much to do. I was getting on
the wife’s nerves and my own, so I decided
to go back to work.” The trouble with
such people is that, apart from their
work, they have no interests that are
capable of filling in their time in an
urban environment. For a good propor-
tion retirement to a farmlet or a seaside
locality with good fishing would prove
satisfactory, but too often wifely oppo-
sition renders this impracticable.
* * * *
“Bass”; A couple of Westralian s.-rp.
bookmakers recently smiled cheerfully as
they paid their fines—£ls each. The
evidence against them had been collected
by a John from another district, who
placed two bets with each. These
days even a laborer in the country doesn’t
bet in shillings, so the cop made each
bet £l. His bets were all on winners at
tens and eights. He couldn’t collect the
winnings and retain the evidence, so the
bookies paid their fines and made three
quid each on the deal.
* * * *
“King’s Pawn”: Old as it is chess still
has room for changes in technique;
“modern” openings are as different as
chalk from cheese to the ones formerly
regarded as safe and sound. Lajos
Steiner went to Europe for the world-
championship challenge contest, and was
shocked to finish low in the list. Living
for a dozen years in a comparative back-
water of chess he had had no chance of
“Yair, I know — you’ve run out of breakers !"
play with the master-players who have
introduced many innovations in strategy.
Back in Australia Steiner kept out of
big chess contests while he studied and
analysed the modern style; returning to
this year’s N.S.W. State Championships
he won every game. Early last century
there was a similar development. In
1824 Evans, a sea captain who spent his
spare-time in his cabin with his chess-
men, turned up at London Chess Club
and said he wanted to play the club
champion to try out an opening he had
evolved. He was laughed at; but the
champion condescended to give him a
lesson. There was frank laughter when
Evans made some opening moves which,
in the orthodox view, only a child would
make; but Evans astonished the
champion by winning. The English
expert took Evans’s plan of attack to
Europe and trounced the Continental
champions with it. The “Evans Gambit”
is still one of the recognised chess open-
“How lucky! You’ve found my ear-ring!”
ings, very dangerous to players who do
not know how to counter it.
❖ * * *
“Kelms”: “Hamer” was amazed (B.
11/10/’5O) when a crowd of men was
unable to produce a pocketknife. He’d
have been astounded, as I was, when a
report of a big air-crash in W.A. told
how an ambulance, racing to the scene
through rugged country, was held up
while the driver tore down scrub with
his hands to make a track. There was a
time when no one would dream of
approaching bush country without an axe
in the bottom of the dray. You’d think
an axe would be as much part of
ambulance equipment as it is of a rail-
way-guard’s van.
* * * *
“No. 241”: The police having plenty
to do, there are numbers of arrest-
warrants lying in the pigeon-holes at
various police-stations, the cops being
quite easy over non-service except when
public dangers are involved. Just before
Christmas or the Easter holidays there is
invariably a clean-up ; it is the people
who are due for arrest who make it.
The rule is that a prisoner whose prison
term is due to expire on a holiday (the
term includes Sundays) must be discharged
on the previous day. A bloke due to
“do” two days for nonpayment of a fine
can report for arrest on Friday night and
be free again on Saturday morning.
These petty offenders are a bit of a
nuisance to the police, who often have to
deal with them when they are busy on
immediately important matters and the
cells are crowded. “Here comes that old
pest Offtin,” I heard a charge-desk
sergeant grunt to his offsider. “He’ll
want to be arrested again. See if there’s
a warrant.” There was no warrant. “It’s
up at Number Four, I think,” prompted
the offender. The police had to ring
No. 4 and get the warrant sent down.
Offtin, reporting on Thursday night so
that the four days he was due to serve
would actually expire on Saturday morn-
ing, was within his rights.
“B. A. Ker”: Twenty-five years ago
there was an unsweetened cordial on the
market (B. 25/10/’5O). A non-intoxicat-
ing beverage sold in a dark bottle, it was
called Gyx, and was generally admitted
as near-beer —if you weren’t much of a
judge of distance. At a dance one night
a youthful acquaintance was mooning
around loudly expressing his yearnings
for “a coupla bottles.” The opportunity
couldn’t be missed by the local humorist.
He bought two bottles of Gyx, changed
the labels and sold the anasmic stuff as
“dinner ale”—at a profit of sevenpence a
bottle. An hour later the thirsty one
was gloriously rolling drunk. I have
never satisfactorily determined whether
he was a victim of auto-suggestion or
merely suffering from that form of ex-
trovertism which makes hobbledehoys
think they look big and tough when they
are reeling around in a feigned state of
blotto profundo.
* * * *
“O’Yen”: Add one more to the mani-
fold delays of new home-builders.
Before tile-manufacturers will deliver to
my district a single tile they require a
photograph of the building. This, they
say, is necessary to ensure delivery to the
nearest possible tile, and overcome the
frequently-occurring delivery of too many
tiles at the one site.
* * * *
“Wavy En”: Non-decaying bottles (B.
20/9/’50)? Before the war mariners who
wanted to know the times of high- and
low-water at Thursday Island had to do
a spot of calculating. It was realised
early in the war that, with deep-draught
ships using Torres Strait and the Great
North-East Channel, tidal information for
that area was desirable. In a place like
T. 1., where tides sometimes play queer
tricks, it was necessary to make a physical
check of water-levels over a long period,
so for one year the height of the water
at Wednesday and Booby Islands was re-
corded every half-hour between highl-
and low-water, and every 10 minutes
during the half-hours before and after
high- and low-water. Tide-poles were
erected and the readings were reduced to
known local datum-marks. At Booby
Island the mark was a horizontal line
below an arrow cut in the cliff-face at
the boat-launching slip. At Wednesday
Island the mark was “the bottom of a
bottle cemented into a hollow in a large
rock just above high-water mark on the
beach on the north-west side of the
island.” The bottle has since been re-
placed by a bronze disk 4in. in diameter
and marked with three concentric circles,
the inner being about l|in. in diameter
with an equilateral triangle scribed about
its centre, the second circle being 2|in.
diameter and scribed “Triangulation
Station, 1943,” and the outer circle con-
taining the inscription “Hydrographic
Branch, R.A.N.,” all exactly similar to|
the paperweight on my office table.
A SAD WELCOME.
“Sir Alan Herbert, former Independent M.P. for
Oxford University, famous for his light verse, signed
‘A.P.H.’ in ‘Punch,’ and Whose private-member’s
Marriage Bill was passed through the House of
Commons in 1937, the way having been prepared
for it by his book Holy Deadlock, has arrived in Aus-
tralia.”
To welcome you, Sir A.P.H.,
My rhymes and times are out of joint;
Your brilliance far outshines my match
Except in one important point:
WeTe both as ineffectual
At beating the poetic tabor —
For what have we to show for all
Our rhythmic labors? Only “Labor.’
That you could go on holiday
And leave behind you Major Attlee
Behaving in the curious way
Our papers have been full of lately
Gives me the courage more to bear
Than shake a small indignant pen at
The line of dirty underwear
That waves you greeting from our Senate.
I should regard as heaven-sent
Your expert views on Holy Deadlock —
But how dissolve a Parliament
Bom or existing out of wedlock?
You’d hardly think such power to hate,
Such inspiration to disparage,
Such carelessness of public fate,
Could live in people outside marriage.
Again, the quest might even strain
Your hatred of hyperbole
For simple words that would explain
Our orgulous economy;
Our wealth is famed, its value nil,
And hordes of migrant argosies
Are scratching for a living still —
Our Golden Fleece is full of fleas.
Such the subdued and minor song—
No toasts, no cheers, not very hearty—
Of one still suffering a long
Hangover from a “Labor” party:
Be you the Independent friend,
Profound and graceful, strong and clever:
Remind us that all parties end,
While wit and wisdom live for ever.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Caballer”: It was the six-o’clock rush,
and the citizen who edged into the
counter beside me and demanded a
schooner of the haughty barmaid did not
appear to be a
polished gentle-
man. I even sus-
pected him of
being a bloke, or
worse. The bar-
maid pushed a
schooner towards
him. I considered
I had misjudged
him when, with an
air of old-world
courtesy, he in-
quired : “Would
that hold a dash of
lemon?” “Certainly,” replied the lass.
“Then,” said the citizen, confirming my
worst fears, “fill the flaming thing up
with beer.”
* * * «
“Bo”: The windscreen-wiper, that in-
strument which seems to take a fiendish
delight in working efficiently whenever
you occasionally test it in dry weather,
jamming immediately a rain-cloud
appears, is at least regarded with delight
by the go-getter of equal pestiferousness
who importunes you, by cards slipped
“ Your daughter told me to tell you We're
getting married."
under it, to sell your car “at top prices”
—that is, at a figure about £4OO less than
what he’ll get for it on resale. Some
of the battery-service people also pin their
faith to the card-under-the-wiper tech-
nique for the advertising, but one cove I
know who owns a sports car now takes
a dim view of their activities. He’d left
his car one night near a suburban picture-
theatre, unwittingly leaving his headlamps
on. When he came out of the flicks three
hours later his lamps were still trying to
make a brave show, though his battery
was just about flat. What makes him
narked was that the go-getter who slipped
the battery-service advertisement-card
under his windscreen-wiper could have
reached in the door and switched the
fights off.
* * * *
“Bamekaw”: It’s a humiliating ex-
perience to hear one’s voice objectively.
In a moment of weakness 1 took part in
a brief interview for a radio broadcast.
It was recorded for a later presentation,
and at the appointed time I tuned in,
confident that I would hear the resonant,
modulated voice of an educated man.
Had the wretched announcer not posi-
tively identified me before I spoke I
would never have recognised the thin,
flat voice that followed, uttering balder-
dash. Nor could I blame mechanical
distortion, or nervousness, as my family
assured me it was a perfect reproduction.
To me it was the voice of an absolute
stranger. Others have had similar ex-
perience. A skilled photographer may
touch up an unflattering portrait, but
nothing can be done with a record. Still,
it seems that this infernal device has a
use in speech-therapy; it might be an
idea to try it out on nagging wives and
crashing bores.
* * * *
“Dolmetcher”: Many Aussies and
Kiwis remember to their cost the pass
south of Lamia, in Greece. When the
batch of prisoners in which I was included
arrived at the top we found a Jerry staff
car with four well-fed sons of perdition,
plus a movie camera, parked there.
Deputed to broach the question of grub,
I found that the Nazi propaganda-
wallahs spoke probably better Eng-
lish than I did. They were having a little
snack of a dozen or so fowls and an odd
crate of wine, etc., and, except for the
smacking of lips, they listened to my tale
of woe in silence. When it was finished
the senior son of sin shook his head
sympathetically, but nonetheless quite
definitely. There was Buckley’s chance
of getting food, and that was that.
“But,” spake the Jerry, “you British are
really very fortunate, you know. After
all, you can always five on the far-famed
English sense of humor, can’t you? Pity
we poor Germans can’t taste it. It must
be so delicious and nourishing.” It took
me many a year and many a good meal
to be able to appreciate the humor of
that wisecrack.
* * * *
“Sackfair”; These days there is little
danger of an embryo Louis Pasteur re-
maining unrecognised—nothing receives
such a gravely enthusiastic Press as a
“discovery” in alleged science. The more
crackbrained it is the more seriously are
its claims pushed. A Sunday paper re-
cently expounded learnedly the latest
from America: Dr. Soanso has dis-
covered that the shape of the body con-
trols the brain. Physique is divided into
three main classes:
endomorphs, meso-
morphs and ectomorphs.
People in the first group
are round, soft people ;
they like good eating
and good drinking.
Mesomorphs, the
theorist contends, are
muscular, heavy-boned
and athletic, while the
third type consists of
fragile, thin and shy
people, Oliver Twist be-
ing a perfect example
of an ectomorph. The
advantages of this dis-
covery, the blurb ran,
were that children
could be “typed” at an
early ago and their sub-
sequent mental outlook
and ability forecast.
Diseases likely to attack
their particular type
could also be deter-
mined. Proof that the
theory was unassailable
came with the revela-
tion that Betty Grable
and Bob Menzies be-
long to the same group.
Perhaps the scientist is
right, but, with all re-
spect to the Prime
Minister, I can’t believe
that his legs would in-
spire a “bodgie” to howl
like a wolf. Nor do I think that a
Commo would slink back into his hole
at the mention of Betty Grable.
* * * *
“K.L.W.”: “A.L.D.” (B. 4/10/’5O)
gives instances of successful scholars who
started their schooling late in life, but
there is a great weight of evidence for
the other side, Milton is reputed never
to have gone to bed before midnight after
his seventh birthday. The extensive study
he undertook probably caused his early
blindness, but it also gave us Paradise
Lost. Alexander Pope, at the age of 12,
had translated large portions of Ovid ;
he was expelled from one school before
this for writing a satire on his
master, but lived to give us The
Dunciad. Mozart wrote an oratorio at 11,
and his first opera was performed when
he was 13, Ford Madox Ford, although
a lesser fight than these, has equal claims
to youthful precocity. He had printed
“Have a bit o' cake , Brig.?"
an attractive and creditable translation of
Vogelweide’s Unter der Linden before he
was 12.
* * * *
“Simon the Saddler”: About those
slipping side-buckles on men’s sports
trousers (B. 18/10/’5O). Buckles for such
material are always of the slide kind,
as woven material cannot be punched.
This means that such buckles cannot be
relied upon owing to the changing thick-
ness of the material caused by pressure,
washing and so on. Even if they con
find a buckle that will hold the pants,
hitching must go on owing to the wide,
stretchy base on which the narrow
stretchy straps operate. Why doesn’t
“Zake” wear a dependable leather belt
and leave buckle worries to others?
« * * •
“Drong”: The seasoned furniture-
remover is invariably a cynic. He knows
all the different kinds of householders
and what not to expect from any one
species in particular. After about 10
minutes’ conversation and a brief glance
round he can usually tell whether he
won’t be there long, or, on the contrary,
if the fatigue he is likely to incur will,
even supposing the job ends in time, be
almost impossible to liquidate. Massive
old-fashioned furniture, though prized by
its owners, seldom fails to infuriate him.
In his opinion not only the furniture on
which in the making insufficient glue has
been used, but even the kind that is
costly, should be collapsible. He also
thinks it would be a good idea to fracture
glassware and anything else at all fragile
before he and his assistants arrive. This
would help to lessen the amount of abuse
heaped with such frequency, though in
vain, upon them. Like bandsmen,
furniture-removers need beer; it helps
them to seem tireless, and is invaluable
as an aid to stoicism. Often, however,
except when disengaged and solvent, they
have to do without it, because, for one
thing, houses near hostelries are seldom
if ever vacated.
* * * *
“Sam”: Whether or not there are any
Spanish galleons lying off the Queensland
coast (B. 17/5/’5O), there may be a Dutch
ship somewhere on the Westralian coast
near Busselton. In a recent book of
essays. Departures, the English naturalist
E. L. Grant Watson describes how, years
ago, he visited the caves in that district,
and was told by the then warden that a
Dutch ship was known to have been lost
in that locality, and that he believed he
had found it. He took Grant Watson to
a spot in a swamp near the seashore.
Sure enough there was a ship, deeply em-
bedded in the mud but sufficiently ex-
posed to enable them to clamber on to its
upper works. The cost of salvage
operations would have been much beyond
their combined resources. Watson left
the country not long after. He never
heard if his companion had ever found
himself in a position to investigate the
possibilities of the wreck.
* * * •
“Cine Ma”: Georges de la Grandiers,
who was responsible for the “Monsieur
Vincent” film, has been backed to the
tune of half a million mainly by private
subscription to produce another screen
version of the Christ-story, “The Divine
Tragedy.” Aa soon as his intention was
known he was bombarded by requests
from Hollywood stars to be given the part
of Mary Magdalen. He replied that stars
were taboo and engaged a totally un-
known woman. The part of Jesus has
been given to a 32-year-old university
lecturer, a French international soccer
player who had never previously acted. I
once saw a Christ-film in Rome and was
so completely absorbed in the story that
I forgot the present. When the lights
went up I glanced at my next-door
neighbor and could not have got a greater
shock if I had seen an avatar of the
Master. He was exactly like the
character on the screen ; in fact, it was he.
I saw him later holding up a post out-
side the theatre with a typical Italian
hard-hitter on his head and smoking a
gasper.
# ♦ * *
“Stunner”: My boss sent his wrist-
watch in for overhaul. When he got it
back he found that the missing second
hand hadn’t been replaced, so he re-
turned it with a request that the job be
completed. The repairer remarked that
99 people out of 100 never look at the
second hand, so it was a waste of time
and money to worry about it. The boss,
who liked things as they should be, in-
sisted on a complete watch. Some
months later he had occasion to use the
second dial, and was surprised to find
that the hand didn’t move. A closer
examination showed the “hand” to be
marked on with Indian ink.
* * * ♦
“Kali”: lam going to finish the novel
that I am reading just to see how much
I can really stand. The hero escapes after
18 months in Changi camp and, complete
with monocle, reaches Sumatra. He is
lucky in his choice of a kampong, and
the Malays look after him until he is
robust enough to swim 15 miles through
shark-infested waters to a reef where he
has learned there is a wrecked lugger.
By a superhuman effort he makes the
craft seaworthy and sets sail, only to
strike a cyclone five days later, running
on to another reef. After a gruelling
fight against the sea he manages to make
the golden sands
and stagger up the
beach to lie ex-
hausted beneath
the shade of a
coconut-palm. But
from then on it’s
not so bad. Luckily
a few nuts have
dropped, and my
hero, adjusting his
monocle, summons up sufficient strength
to tear away the husk with his teeth, and
bite off the nipples of the life-saving nut.
Well, I reckon this bloke must be about
the millionth castaway to be saved by
the humble coconut, plus, of course, the
ability to open a nut with the teeth or
tear it apart like an orange. Even with
a strong stake, the normal way of husk-
ing a nut, it takes about 10 seconds to
do the job, otherwise it is a 20-minute
job even with a knife or alternatively
bashing the nut on a coral outcrop. Next-
best is the robber crab’s method. He
first husks the nut, works in the ends
of his smaller nippers and bashes it until
it opens.
A LIKELY HAZARD.
“Widow, 85, cooking-demonstrator, ex-nnr*e, makes
all own clothing, likes amateur theatrical*, would
meet gent., similar hobby, view mat.” —Agony ad.
The attribute, you’ll note, she places first
Is one that she considers most appealing.
In man’s great weakness she is shrewdly versed.
The fact that she’s devoted years to healing
She tosses in just as an afterthought—
A fact deserving only casual mention —
The “angel with his darker draught” she’s
fought.
But that achievement she considers nought
Beside her powers of culinary invention.
She earns a crust —and where, we ask, the man
Who fails to say “What better way to earn
it?”—
By baking roasts and like attractive scran
And demonstrating, too, how not to burn it.
The sponges she turns out would never be,
It’s certain, kin to malleable mortar.
Puddings of wonderful variety
And pies of succulent felicity
Wait him who will assiduously court her.
Her future spouse need entertain no fears
That he’ll be soaked each month for umpteen
guineas
For clothes. She’ll “run up” taffetas and sheers,
She’s just as good with gowns as slips and
pinnies.
Her versatility we’ll not dispute.
Perhaps it even may be not beyond her
To knock him up a double-breaster suit,
Or, say, an overcoat to execute.
It’s something, anyway, for him to ponder.
Ah, well, with one or other of her skills
To land a mate she shouldn’t find perplexing—
With Jacks for ever falling for their Jills,
Another name she’ll shortly be annexing.
But, cynic that I am, this thought I’ll air:
The actress in her will be ever seeking
The cook and seamstress both to overbear.
In short, for him here is a hidden snare:
Her lines she’ll certainly be plainly speaking.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“B. A. Ker”; Although less conversant
with bird-life than “Wippegong,” I can
still share his enjoyment of a nocturnal
bike-ride (B. 18/10/’5O). To begin with,
the old grid seems to run easier at night.
Whether there is a scientific explanation
—the action of night air on steel bearings,
etc. —or the ease is purely imaginary, I
don’t know; but Ido know that a hill
which, in daylight, would have you seri-
ously contemplating capitulation, can be
climbed without effort at night. Perhaps
psychology has something to do with it;
you can’t see the steepness stretching on-
ward and upward like an alp. Along a
level stretch of bush gravel-road the bike
feels to spin along merrily at the lightest
pressure on the pedals, while with a
slight down-grade comes a mildly exhila-
rating sensation that no other vehicle can
produce. It’s then, if you have a
generator-lamp, that enough power is
generated to throw a lorilg beam —one
which will often pick up and hold captive
a bunny or bandicoot. The silly animal
will bust his boiler to keep ahead of you
in that track of light; not until the
current wanes will he have sense enough
to turn aside. Another strange aspect of
riding at night is the prevalence of air-
pockets: the air is warm, mild and still
—suddenly it is cold and keen. For five
or six yards the alien atmosphere con-
tinues, then it is gone—the pocket is left
behind. On cold nights warm pockets
occur. Riding without a light I once
overshot a turning and found myself on
a strange road, which, however, appeared
to be heading in the right direction. I
was obviously in the “horse” rut with
the cartwheel ruts on each side ; I knew
they were deep because occasionally a
pedal would tip the side. A week later
I tried to ride down that same road in
daylight. I fell off three times! Why?
Presumably because I tried to pick my
track; at night I just let the old mangle
run.
* * * *
One of the cat’s rare visits
inside coincided with one of those rarer
occasions when I sit at the piano and give
voice to a few old favorites. No sooner
had I started than the tabby braved the
precincts he is usually too nervous to
venture into, crowded against me and be-
gan to howl. He varied his performance
with bouts of pummelling wherever he
could reach, purring at top pressure, then
dropped back to howl again. Failing to
get results that way, he attacked my legs
rather savagely with
his teeth, till, with a
yelp, I lifted them be-
yond range. His next
brainwave was to jump
on the piano, make
several ineffectual
Swipes with his mitt at
my wailing mouth,
then, in desperation, he
flopped full-length on
the keyboard, pinioning my hands.
Pondering such unusual distress, I can’t
believe the old blighter was inspired by
sympathy for any imagined anguish, nor,
hang it, am I that bad a vocalist. As he
takes all wireless music with indifference,
I can only put it down to a cat’s super-
sensitive ears, which object to shrill or
resonant sounds. Heard of one quiet old
tabby that went temporarily insane as a
result of constant whistling during the
evening, and evidently this old mouser,
too, can’t stand throbbing sound-waves,
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d hit Melbourne for
the Cup that year, getting in about seven
o’clock one night. For two hours we
chased vainly around the city trying to get
a bed, and at last found a taxi-driver who
ran us to the Y.M.C.A. hostel over
Prince’s Bridge. There we dumped our
bags and headed back up town for a
feed. It was nearly 1.1 when we got
back to the hostel, to find it locked and
in darkness. We hammered and kicked
at the door without result, and finally
drew off and went cursefully to the near-
by gardens and spent the night there.
Next morning we were at the hostel
bright and early, loudly demanding what
the deuce they meant by locking us out.
We were politely informed that it was a
strict and unbreakable rule that every-
“Blonde hair certainly suits madame
body had to be in and all lights out by
10.30, and that if we wished to sleep there
we’d have to obey the rule. Since there
were no other beds to be had in the city,
we accepted it. But Mat rocked the chap
in charge when he said, “Call yourselves
a Young Men’s Christian Association, do
y’? Yet just because we was a bit late
gettin’ back, not knowin’ the rule, y’ lock
us out an’ we gotter go an’ doss in the
park. What sorter temptation’s that t’
put in our way; me an’ me mate loaded
down with dough an’ them parks full o’
spielers an’ thieves an’ wimmen just
lookin’ for innercent young fellers like
us. You ought t’ be ashamed o’ yourself,
doin’ a thing like that!” The chap was
gasping like a fish as we went off to get
some breakfast.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Herb had never done road-
work before, but he’d seen other blokes
at it, and reckoned he wouldn’t have any
trouble. He reported for work, and was
drafted into a gang a mile or so out of
town. “What about a shovel?” he asked
the foreman, “Aw, you won’t need a
shovel. You can stand on the edge there
and direct the trucks back under the
chinaman,” he was instructed. “Then
you can pull the planks out so they can
load.” Herb saw the first load of gravel
away, and stood by the roadside waiting
for the arrival of the next truck. “Hey,
what about giving me a shovel?” he
asked again. “The machine’ll fill the
chinaman,” the foreman told him. “No
sense you having a shovel.” Herb saw
another truck off and returned to the
roadside. Presently a car passed, its
occupants eyeing him curiously. The
idle one fidgeted. Then came another
car, more staring, and Herb made off
purposefully towards the foreman.
“Look here, if I’m stayin’ on this job I
got to have a shovel, like everybody
else,” he announced definitely. “Gripes,
it makes a bloke conspicuous, jus’
standin’ there like a silly flamin’ goat,
with nothin’ to lean on.”
* * * *
“Bass”: The only poisonous snake
around Perth I know of that will attempt
to enter a house is the dugite, and as
such I identified the creamy-buff six-
footer I killed at the back door. I was
taken to task by an expert who’d seen
dozens of the species, and he described
it: Olive-brown, with diamond-shaped
patches of black along its back. He was
right—he’d described a dugite accurately.
What he didn’t know, and what isn’t
generally known, is that the dugite varies
considerably with localities. You can
even strike several varieties in a few
miles —there are four in the Perth area
alone. This snake is the western counter-
part of the Eastralian brown snake, and
it’s deadly. Fortunately it will sooner
run than fight. Once saw a man chase
one for 30yds. over bare ground towards
a large shed. As they turned the corner
he went into action, with a stick he was
carrying, and the sound of vicious blows
traced their progress along the far wall.
When I arrived he was holding it by the
tail and he explained that when his stick
broke he seized the reptile’s stern and
cracked it like a whip. The liar even
offered to give me a demonstration, if I
could locate the snake’s mate. But
they’re elusive creatures. Which is why,
although there are plenty of snakes in
the West, when a citizen is bitten by one
it’s news.
“Bo”; As far as the eye could see,
north and south, along the single-track
line, the flat, desolate plain stretched;
the nearest objects to the level-crossing
were a few dead ironbarks about a mile
away. As old Josh and his wife
approached the crossing,in their battered
utility Josh slowed down to about
five miles an hour, hesitated when he
noticed a smudge of smoke far to the
south, then trod the accelerator down to
the boards. The ute jerked forward,
and as it reached the first rail the engine
stalled, the vehicle halting right on the
track. Josh looked along at the distant
smoke-smudge, got down, wound the
outfit up with the crank-handle, got in
again, and moved across the lines. The
smudge of smoke from the weekly mixed
had become only slightly larger. As he
wiped the sweat off his forehead Mrs.
Josh spoke. “Now, p’rhaps that'll teach
y’ a lesson!” she admonished. “You
always were a reckless feller. Josh, If
“Stare, stare, like a bear!”
we’d have left home five minutes later
we’d both have probably been killed!”
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Ours is a friendly little
town; most of the blokes yarning down
the street will have a drink with anyone
who blows along, and won’t take them
down without worthy reasons. On the
contrary, we go out of our way to help
those who seem to be in need of it. Such
a one was discovered at the crossroads the
other evening. Jimmie the cook found him
—sound asleep in the gutter. Not wish-
ing to appear inconsiderate to a visitor.
the assembled representatives, after gently
ascertaining that the stranger was alive.
squatted o n
their collective
heels round
him and de-
bated his fate.
Nugget wanted
to search him
to see who he
was; but that
was ruled out
as unworthy. Blue was for delivering
him to old Hogan, who had offered a
couple of notes to anyone who could find
him somebody for the milking—sugges-
tion dismissed. Then little Mickey,
always gentle-hearted, said “Wassay we
stand him up, spin him round three times
and whichever way he heads we help
him?” So Jimmie the blacksmith stood him
up, and the unceremonious jerk stirred
life in the victim, but during the third
gyration he seemed to sense an emerg-
ency, stiffened and then —possibly in a
desperate attempt to retain his balance —
set off at a wobbly trot for the railway-
station. That settled it; the mixed was
due in about 20 minutes, and he was
half-carried, half-skidded on to the plat-
form and finally dumped in a corner
seat, where he promptly fell asleep again.
We still didn’t know where he came
from, but by now had a fair idea where
he was going to; which made us feel
better.
* * * «
“Old Crab”: On the credit side for
the magpie (B. 27/9/’5O) chalk up his
economy at table. On our s.-w. Queens-
land lawn Maggie, a regular visitor,
caught a grasshopper, pinned it with its
right claws, whipped off its head and, its
beak fitting neatly in the hole thus made,
enjoyed the meal unworried by the
’hopper’s hard casing.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Maybe I’m at a
slight disadvantage in this argument about
foxes sharing a kill (B. 4/10/’5O), foxes
not being very plentiful in the West in my
young days. Still, I’ve seen and observed
quite a bit of Reynard, and Mac, my
sidekick, claims to have been quite
familiar with him in Scotland. Up there,
Mac says, they’re regarded as pests, and
their last stronghold is around the rocky
coasts, where sheer cliffs and narrow
caves give them ample protection. He
reckons that when the pups are being
taught the rudiments of self-preservation
the dog-fox brings his kill to the vixen,
who deposits it some distance from the
den-mouth, calls, and disappears. The
pups have to find it or starve. Seems to
me that an animal which will do that
would co-operate with its mate in a kill
and share the spoils. Now, I’ve seen two
foxes holding a flock of sheep while two
others tore their throats, and I’m con-
vinced that only my arrival interrupted
a feast in which all would have shared.
1 once poisoned nine foxes in a night
with a single carcass, using strychnine
with a dash of carb. soda to give quick
action. Those foxes could each have
arrived separately, but is it likely?
“Betcha” says dingoes, crows, bush-cats,
etc., “only share because they have to.”
I once watched, helpless, while on the
other side of the river, a pack of dingoes
hounded a she-ass and her foal. They
kept the two separated and, taking it in
turns on a relay, literally ran the foal
off its legs. They devoured it, together,
while the exhausted mother stood near by.
Then, to prove that they weren’t gorged,
they turned on her. Maybe the red haze
in front of my eyes distorted my vision,
but I didn’t detect any unwillingness to
share the kill.
DRINKING-POOL.
In the timber after twilight
When the resting bush is still,
When the curlew calls the hollow
And the plover calls the hill:
Moving silhouettes and shadows
In the velvet of the night
Where the stars deep down are drinking
In the pool of silver light—
Silent foot and secret wing
By the trees and by the boulders,
By the little mountain spring
When the night drops down her curtain
And the silences stand by
And the curlew calls the darkness
And the plover calls the sky.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


Vent caft
-"'r.
¥
f;
3
@r*^'
&
vJP**
• CURE that
Crippling Inferiority Complex
Don’t envy those confident, successful people who get so
much enjoyment out of living. Shake off the shackles of
fear, nervousness and uncertainty which are holding you
back and become the healthy, happy, successful person you
were intended to be I
INFERIORITY COMPLEX
Send for This
AMAZING FREE BOOK
ON PRACTICAL PSYCHOLOGY
As Applied to HEALTH, HAPPINESS & SUCCESS
Most of the mental and physical ills which take the joy and sparkle out
of living are directly traceable to negative forces deep down in the
Subconscious Mind. Inferiority Complex alone is responsible for an
incalculable waste of health, happiness, and personal efficiency. By
showing you how to eradicate these negative forces which stunt and
cripple the entire personality, the modem science of Applied Psychology
literally opens the door to life.
WHAT IT HAS DONE FOR THIS MAN
IT CAN AND WILL DO FOR YOU
Sc * <0 A
FORO^/ZVolg
SUFFERING FROAA (
ofp^
3
ft-
THEN 6- NOW!
.POISED. self-controlUC
J S^Mt-WRir
°k
£s,
Of
*</»
It Will Show You—
• How to Develop Nerves
of Steel.
• How to overcome Shy-
ness and Self-Conscious-
ness.
• How to Cure Physical
Fatigue and “Brain-
Fag.”
• How to Remedy Blush-
ing and Stammering.
• How to Develop a Mar-
vellous Memory.
• How to Get Well and
Stay Well.
• How to Change Your
Entire Life.
• How to Develop a Mag-
netic Personality and
Succeed in Your Chosen
Line.
Printed in full colour—loo
beautiful illustrations.
Most Marvellous Free Book
ever offered to the. public..
(
UNIVERSAL* OPPORTUNITY LEAGUE
80 Swanston St., Melbourne.
Please send me your famous FREE Book. I enclose
sd. for registered postage.
NAME
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
ADDRESS
STATE
Bui. 8/IVM
“Kelms”: The art of emu-egg carving,
once a popular pastime amongst station-
hands and bushwhackers, burst into
prominence recently in a
W.A. country town. It
seems a chap with a flair
for designing had operated
on the egg and presented
it to a friend, who
accommodated it on the
sideboard. It was four
years before the one
serious flaw in the artist’s
method became apparent. He’d omitted
to blow the egg. According to my report
there was still a lot of the contents left
when nature corrected the mistake and
blew it —literally—all over the room.
* * * *
“Wonk”: Clipper’s team consisted of
himself, two shearers, two rousies and a
travelling plant; but when Dad Parsons
sought to engage the outfit Clipper ex-
plained that he’d do Parsons’s flock each
season, provided he could use the
farmer’s own plant. Dad willingly
agreed. The following season, as shear-
ing approached, Dad got word from the
contractor that he’d be out to put his
mob through next week, but as he was
short of men Parsons would have to find
his own rousies. Dad had some trouble,
but eventually found two men. The next
year Clipper’s shearers deserted him.
“I’ve never let a shed down yet, Par-
sons,” he informed, “and I’ll handle yours
as usual on the same terms as last year,
but you’ll have to get a couple of
shearers. Don’t be late with ’em; I’m
a busy man.” Dad canvassed the
countryside with some success and his
flock went through. This season, as
shearing approached, I found Dad, with
a surly scowl, cleaning up his shed. I
asked him what was wrong. “Aw, it’s
Clipper,” he explained. “Says last year’s
arrangements holds good, but he won’t
be able f come himself this time; he’s
too busy. That means I got t’ find a
classer, too. ’Course I know things are
tough for everybody,” growled Dad, “but
just the same, if that contractor gets
much worse I won’t pay the cow.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: He was one of those
short, bandy-legged, red-faced, red-
haired Highlanders who sometimes get
loose in the Mallee and, probably to
comfort themselves for the loss of their
wild and misty braes, oatmeal cakes and
whusky, take to beer with a deadly
solemnity and set aside most Saturday
afternoons for assault on the local
Sassenach, indifferent as to whether they
come singly or in bunches. He had laid
out three, and now, hatless and almost
shirtless, with the blazing Mallee sun
scorching a skin never made for such
treatment, he danced in the dust outside
the Murrayville pub and challenged all
and sundry to battle. The crowd stayed
in the shade and eyed him carefully, what
time it wondered what the new police-
man, who had only arrived the night be-
fore, would make of him. The police-
man, apprised of the situation, walked
calmly to the scene, surveyed the
embattled Scot, withdrew, reappeared
with a small jar in his hand and called
“Hey, Jock, come here an’ get some of
this sunburn lotion on your bare
shoulders before y’ get burned t’ death.”
Jock kicked up more dust and replied,
“Come an’ get ma, ye gomeril.” The
policeman turned to the crowd. “Move
on,"’ he said, quietly. “Get about your
business. He’ll keep that up while he’s
got an audience. These ruddy Scotch-
men love to pose before a crowd.” It
may be another injustice to the Scots, but
the fact is that the crowd moved away,
so did the policeman, and presently Jock
walked somewhat furtively into the bar,
where he was ignominiously arrested.
* * * *
“Zake”; My novelist had the hero and
hired hand on the crosscut-saw. There was
much lack of co-operation, upon which
“ You'll pay for this , sir.”
“And YOU'LL pay for this , sir!”
tile hero, experienced in the art of reduc-
ing timber in size, rose up from his side
of the log in wrath. “If you can’t push
any harder than that,” quoth he, “you’ll
be no use on this job.” That novelist’s
knowledge of crosscut-sawing is about as
extensive as a tiny tot’s is of astro-
navigation. You don’t push a crosscut —
you pull; when you’ve reached the extent
of your pull the bloke on the other side
of the log pulls, and so on. To push
while he is pulling means buckling that
long flexible piece of steel.
* * * *
“S.H.H.”: Maybe you can’t teach an
old dog new tricks, but he can pick em
up off his own bat. Over the years old
Blue’s behavior has been reasonably
circumspect, but of late he has taken to
camping under the cream-stand, and
when a timber-jinker passes he silently
shoots out and, putting all he’s got into
a rheumy leap, rips off the bit of red
bunting on the overhang which police
authority prescribes. On a recent trip to
town I passed two halted lorries, the
drivers earnestly endeavoring to convince
a police patrol they’d had flags when they
started. The old dog has never known a
chain, and if I put a “shin-banger” on
him he won’t work at all. As all the
longest logs are, perforce, on the floor of
the jinkers, I can’t suggest the drivers fly
their flags on the shorter ones up top
even if I was game to own up and return
the dozen bits of bunting the old hound
has stored under the stand.
* * * *
“Blime”: Ted ran into Bill on the
store veranda. “ ’Day, Bill,” he greeted.
“That neighbor of yours buy his truck
yet?” “Young Robbie? No, he didn’t
get one,” drawled Bill. “I had a bit of
a job talkin’ him out of it, though. ‘Look
here,* I said to him, ‘a truck’s no good
to you. Won’t grip on the grass slopes
round here. What you ought to get’s a
tractor. Be a lot more use. Take that
truck o’ mine now,’ I says. ‘Awright in
its way, o’ course, but you can’t plough
or nothin’ with a truck. You could take
a loan o’ mine some time, if ever I get
new tyres f’r it,’ I told him, ‘ ’Course I
know you wouldn’t like to borrer it like
she is, but I’m always willin’ t’ lend me
things. It’d show you a truck ain’t what
you want.’ Yair, he took a bit o’ con-
vincin’,” said Bill, “but I did me best
for him.” “Bought a tractor, did he?”
“Yair, an’, by cripes, I was right about it,
too,” Bill announced. “It’s the handiest
thing around the place. Why, he’s only
had it a month, an’ awready I’ve
ploughed up all them flats O’ mine above
the house, cleaned out me dams, an’
dragged a lot o’ fence-posts I been
wantin’ shifted f’r years. Next week I’m
goin’ to borrer it again an’ pull out all
them stumps on me bush block, an’ rip
up me forty acres o’ bracken.”
* * ♦ *
“8.A.K.”: The theory that desire for
even inanimate company impels a man
to doss near a fence or stump
may be right or wrong, but it is
indisputable that the average bloke is
happier if he’s got something like that to
call “home” for the night. Moreover,
it’s a safe bet that the dosser will sleep
with his head towards that post or stump.
Even an old British Army man I en-
countered slept that way, although he
told me he had spent years sleeping in
a bell-tent with “feet to the pole” the
sleeping position. A wide stump could,
of course, form a partial breakwind, but
the dosser’s position would be the same
against a sapling Sin. in diameter. Fer-
h'aps there is significance in the fact that
the upright timber makes a back-rest,
from which it is a simple matter to slide
down to slumber. But my view is that
the habit derives from centuries of sleep-
ing in beds with the head to the wall.
Ever seen a bed with the foot against the
wall and the head out in the middle of
the room? I did once. An old China-
man had bought the big iron double-bed
at the local sale and was insufferably
proud of his new possession. I remember
the hurt look on his face as I laughed at
the high mosquito-net brackets on the
wrong end. “Him alii,” he protested.
“No harm.” I suppose he was right; but
the bed standing that way did look unbe-
lievably comical.
♦ * * *
“S.W.K.”: The new-hand was regarded
generally as a bit of a dill, so that when
he returned from the township, to which
he’d been sent with the cart as substitute
for the broken-down utility, and
announced that old Dodger had backed
the cart through the window of the
general-store, Dad’s comment that he
didn’t think he had brains enough to do
anything else found solid support. But the
hand maintained stoutly that it hadn’t
been his fault —that he was just in the
middle of turning him around to come
home after loading-up when the moke
started backing, and despite all he, Joe,
could do, had kept backing until he’d
finished up with the cart inside the
window as far as it would go. And it
would have remained something to toss-
up at Joe had not Martin, who’d sold the
old prad to Dad years before, been told
about it “Did you hear a whistle just
before he started backing?” he asked.
Joe thought for a bit, then remembered
that the knock-off whistle at the sawmill
had gone just as he was turning the
horse. “That’s it!” said Martin. “And
that’s memory for you. When I bought
Dodger thirty years ago he worked in a
brickpit hauling up the clay. He soon
got to know the knock-off whistle, and
took his cue from the men. If he was
fialf-way up the slope with a load when
the whistle went he’d back it rather than
finish pulling it up. That’s how he came
to go through the window.”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”; Pompey, down from
the wheatbelt, has set a problem. How
do mountain-ducks, which sometimes
nest in dead trees, get their brood down
to the ground and on to the nearest
water? The query is prompted by the
discovery, near Three Springs, of a nest,
in a tree-stump, about 15ft, from the
ground. It was about a mile and a half
from the nearest lake, and when Pompey
found it, one Saturday morning, it con-
tained 13
eggs on
the point
of hatch-
ing. H e
ret urned
on the
f o 1 lowing
day, and
found the
nest de-
serted. He reckons the duck carried the
ducklings down on her back, one at a
time, and then footslogged it to the lake —
not by any means an impossible feat.
Ted, to whom we referred it, recalls hay-
ing seen a duck transferring ducklings
from a nest to a safer spot by carrying
each one in her beak. But he reckons, in
this case, that the youngsters were simply
pushed out of the nest.
NEW AUSTRALIAN.
Tasting strange-flavored words upon his lips,
Face grimacing, tongue tied by speechless
bands,
With shame, the “English”-begging alien grips
Man’s universal language of the hands.
Tonelessly speaking as a parrot trained,
Our words are treasures set beyond his reach;
Without the key by which the door is gained,
He stands locked out from earth by common
speech.
Smiling too much, too humbly, seeking to
please,
Watching with anxious eyes the laugh, the
frown,
He fears his fumbled language may release
The mockery within some near-by clown.
N.S.W.
SHELAGH M. HARRIS.


(ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS)
MUMZONE PRODUCTS
LIMITED
Manufacturers of Popular
GARDENER BRAND
Super Quality Food Products
CAPITAL EXPANSION
Nominal Capital .. .. £250,000
Present Paid-up Capital ... £lOO,OOO
NEW ISSUE of 75.000 "A" Ordinary Shares
of £1 each at par
The Directors of the Company are:—George
Livingstone Melville, Blakehurst, N.S.W., Com-
pany Director (Chairman) ; Raymond Stanmore
Turner, Kensington Gardens, S.A., Company
Director (Deputy Chairman); James Harris
Hobbs, 0.8. E., Payneham, S.A., Company
Director; Clive Langdon Bonython, Unley Park,
S.A., Company Director.
ADDITIONAL CAPITAL REQUIRED FOR:
Financing increased production;
Marketing new products.
THE PROSPECTUS
(of which this advertisement is an abridgement)
dated 3rd day of November, 1950, and filed
with the Registrar of Companies, Adelaide,
shows that each £ I Ordinary Share has an asset
backing of £l/8/6.
DIVIDENDS: Dividends at the rate of 6 p.c.
per annum have been paid on the issued ordinary
capital of the Company for the past six years.
Copies of the prospectus and forms of appli-
cation for shares can be obtained from the
office of the Company, 167 Payneham Road,
St. Peters.
APPLICATIONS
will be received only on one of the forms of
application issued with the prospectus, and
may be made either direct to the Company or
through a member of the Stock Exchange of
Adelaide, Ltd.'
The minimum subscription on which the
Directors may proceed to allotment is £25,000.
Such amount is required to be provided in
respect of the following matters: —•
(I ) Purchase price of plant
and machinery .. £17,025 0 0
(2) Estimated brokerage . . 625 0 0
(3) Working capital . . 7,350 0 0
£25,000 0 0
The requirements of the Companies Act re-
lating to a prospectus have not been fully com-
plied with in this advertisement.
Application will be made in due course for
listing on the Stock Exchange of Adelaide, Ltd.
The WILDCAT COLUMN
South British Insurance Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1941.. 656,058 22.5 p.c.=232,119 423,939 3.822,472
Unexplained reduction, £108,363 .. 3,714,109
1942.. 448,711 20 p.c.=206,328 242,383 3,956,492
Unexplained reduction, £1,440 •. 3,965,052
1943.. 612,299 20 p.c.=206,328 305,971 4.261,023
Unexplained reduction, £81,453 .. 4,179,570
1944.. 559,661 20 p.c.=206,328 358,333 4,532,903
Unexplained additions, £5463 .. 4,538,366
1945.. 523,496 35 p.c.=361,074 162,422 4,700,788
Donation to “Heritage,” £lO,OOO .. 4,690,788
Unexplained reduction, £5189 .. ..4,686,599
1946.. 672,890 20 p.c.=206,328 366,562 5,052,161
Unexplained add. invest, res, £54,040.. 5,106,201
1947.. 875,413 25 p.c.=257,910 617,503 6,723,704
Reduction exchange res., £1,036,892 .. 4,686,812
1948.. 805,156 25 p.c.=257,910 547,246 6,234,058
Reduction reserves, £666 .. .. 5,233,392
1949.. 715,178 25 p.c.=257,910 467,263 5,690,655
Added exchange res., £280,873 .. .. 5,971,528
1950. 1,065,670 27$ p.c.=283,701 781,969 6,753,497
At the head of the list of equities in
the investment market stands the scrip
in solid, old-established and progressive
insurance offices like this N.Z. co. That
is because the policy of profits-allocation
ensures strong reserves, with consequent
high earning-power in relation to capital,
and, at intervals, increases in the amount
distributed as dividends and the issue of
bonus scrip. Moreover, the returns from
a wad of Government and other sound
securities usually tread close on the heels
of, or cover, the dividend charges, leaving
the underwriting surplus, or the bulk of
it, available to swell the investment port-
folio and returns therefrom. And in this
inflationary age the whole process has
been accelerated by rapidly-expanding
premium income and a favorable loss
rate, with consequent growth in the size
of the surplus. There are times, of course,
when underwriters run into bad patches,
when there is little or no underwriting
surplus, but overall the theory of averages
has worked well.
This big Auckland-controlled office,
with world-wide connections, has a paid
capital of £1,031,640, of which £907,910
represents reserves capitalised during the
15 boom years to 1927. And for the
23 years to the close of last accounts divs.
have averaged 18.1 p.c., and reserves, in-
cluding £2,350,000 for unexpired risks,
now total £6,753,497. Last term’s net
return from investments (after deducting
taxation) was £239,449 (up £17,166), or
£44,252 less than the increased rate of
dividend (27} p.c.) called for.
With strong connections in Canada and
U.S. the co. is a contributor to the Empire
dollar pool. Continued expansion of
activities, helped by the growth of in-
ventories and rise in values, sent last
term’s net premium income up by
£625,000;
Net Loss Exp.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
£ £ £ p.c. p.c.
1989.. 1,417,625 844,616 884,989 59.5 27.7
1942.. 2,236,471 1,361,333 593,704 60.9 26.6
1944.. 2,612,012 1,408,581 825,258 53.7 31.6
1948.. 2,889,127 1,229,044 821,984 51.4 34.4
1946.. 2,498,400 1,435,721 699,195 67.5 32.9
1947.. 8,005,415 1,568,993 814,560 52.4 27.1
1948.. 3,146,635 1,694,677 848,045 53.9 26.9
1949.. 3,309,215 1,894,378 921,947 57.2 27.8
1960.. 8,934,216 2,017,714 1,090,280 51.3 27.7
And the bigger business was written at
a shade less cost, the expense rate being
2s. p.c. lighter at a moderate 27.7 p.c.
The loss rate, over which the manage-
ment has little direct control, was £5 18s.
P-c. lighter, being one of the most favor-
able in the co.’s experience. It was the
chief factor responsible for the big in-
crease of £333,331 in the gross under-
writing surplus (£826,221). But that was
before allowing for unexpired risks, which
on the usual 40 p.c. basis would reduce
the net underwriting surplus to £576,221
(up £148,363). Adding the net return
from investments, the available profit
from all sources was thus £815,670 (up
£165,535), or a juicy 79.1 p.c. on
capital as against 63, 72.5 and 65.5
p.c. for the three preceding years. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) the £815,670 was only 10.4 p.c.
The next table shows the solid pro-
tection for both policyholders and share-
holders :
1948. 1949. 1960.
Paid capital .. £1,081,640 £1,031,640 £1,031,640
Liabilities* .. 1,894,116 2,146,040 2,286,481
Final divs. .. 154,746 154,746 154,746
Govt, securities .. 8,412,547 3,862,188 4,429,530
M’cipal debentures 668,805 632,602 840,916
Shares, etc. .. 1,036,329 1,113,410 1,177,392
Mortgages .. 738,039 691,927 687,150
Deposits, cash, etc. 1,831,921 2,018,922 2,360,008
Book debts .. 143,171 183,826 188.884
Premises .. .. 488,748 620.206 532,485
* Including reserves for outstanding losses and
taxation.
Last term’s surplus earnings, etc., went
mainly into Government securities (up
£567,342) and cash, etc, (up £350,086),
which together account for two-thirds of
the balance-sheet total.
The market (Sydney), which sees the
glow of the present reflected far into
the future, prices the f.-p. 10s. shares at
130 s. as against 109 s. a year ago. At
the higher figure the return in Australian
currency on a 27} p.c. div. basis is only
2.6 p.c. at the current rate of exchange.
The investor who looks for 4 p.c, on his
money counts on a two-for-one bonus-
scrip issue and a 15 p.c. div. (18.6 p.c,
Australian currency), which would then
call for £464,139. Any appreciation of
the Australian pound would reduce the
return from, and the market value of,
the investment.
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends-
Ist 2nd
Net Pref. Pref. Re-
July, Profit. 6 p.e. 7$ p.c. Ordinary. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1940. .207,068 9000 18,760 10 p.c. = 81,000 917,704
1941. .130,667 9000 18,760 10 „ „ 81,000 939,621
1942. .148,462 9000 18,750 8 „ ~ 64,800 995,583
1943. .159.020 9000 18,760 10 „ „ 81,0001,045,803
1944.. 169,814 9000 18,760 10 „ „ 81,0001,096,867
1946. .163,929 9000 18,760 10 „ „ 81,0001,152,046
1946. .207,630 9000 18,750 10 „ „ 81,0001,250,925
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 1,160,925
1947. .233,316 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 91,000 1,265,490
1948. .276,960 9000 18,750 12$ „ ~113,750 1,400,950
1949. .221,039 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 95,000 1,499,239
1950. .291,169 9000 18,750 10 „ „ 95,000 1,667,658
* Excludes workers’-compensation reserve, £47,561,
1950.
To provide the extra working capital
needed to finance the continued growth
of turnover, due partly to the all-round
rise in prices, D.J.’s is offering those on
its ord. register at December 27, 455,000
new £1 ords. at par, one for two. The
issue will lift paid capital to £1,805,000
in 150,000 first 6 p.c. and 250,000 second
7} p.c. cum. prefs. and 1,405,000 ords., of
which 40,000 are held by employees. On
that lot the pref. divs. and 10 p.c. to
the ords. will call for £168,250, or
£122,919 less profit than was shown last
term.
The offer surprised the market, which
lengthened its bid for the ords. from
635. 6d. early in October to 775. follow-
ing the announcement. After exercising
the rights and allowing for brokerage, the
net price at 775, is 58s, 4d., giving the
rights a theoretical value of 38s. 4d. The
return at 58s. 4d. is 3.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis, so the investor who looks for,
say, 4.1 p.c. on his money counts on a
12 p.c. distribution, which, together with
pref. requirements, would call for
£196,350, While this is easily within
reach at the moment, the whole outlook
for trade and industry lacks stability, be-
cause of the absence of a proper balance
between the supply of goods and the
supply of money.
How long can the prices flood keep
rising before tearing a hole in the defences
against inflation? Already this big
retailer has had to draw upon other
people’s savings to help finance stocks,
etc., at inflated price-levels. And when
wool and cotton and other textiles go up
together, the consumer, when it comes to
his turn —present high prices for raw
wool, etc., have not yet percolated through
the whole system of manufacture and
distribution —cannot escape the effects.
He can draw upon savings, run into debt,
or obtain higher wages, as he has done.
And so the inflationary spiral starts again.
Unless something is soon done to correct
the position, the consumer will be finally
forced to reduce his consumption, which
would spell trouble everywhere. Of the
disinflationary measures that can be taken
against rising prices, increased production
would be the most effective at the
moment. The Government is doing its
part in the national monetary and
economic field. It is now up to labor to
co-operate with management in devising
ways and means of staving off the
threatened malady.
The improvement of £70,130 in the
co.’s net earnings last term was due
mainly to a 10 p.c, increase in turnover,
which passed the £11,000,000-mark. Wage
and all other costs increased, and the
gross margin on controlled lines con-
tinued to shrink—it was 27.1 p.c., 1948,
24.6 p.c., 1949, and 22.5 p.c., 1950. The
£291,169 of profit claimed covered the
pref. divs. and 27.7 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 19.1, 27, 22.5, 22.2 and 16.8 p.c,
back to 1945. The div. was kept at
10 p.c., and, with few exceptions, has been
ever since 1906. The profit was written
after allowing £96,886 (up £35,879) for
depreciation and paying £348,000 in taxes
to the Government, which thus gets much
more than shareholders out of the busi-
ness. The £168,419 of the year’s net
earnings ploughed back into the under-
taking lifted reserves to £1,667,658,
which is only £137,342 short of paid
capital, including the new issue.
The immediate outlook favors a further
increase of retail turnovers, but buyers
are expected to become more discriminat-
ing as marginal incomes narrow, and
mounting costs and the taxgatherer
together promise to make off with the
lion’s share of any increased earnings.
The pound-a-week lift in the basic-wage,
if fully implemented, is alone expected
to cost D.J.’s £260,000 for a full year.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital .. £1,810,000 £1,350,000 £1,350,000
Mortgages, etc. . . 503,333 503,333 503,333
Sundry creditors.. 1,401,151 1,639,831 1,601,279
Tax reserve .. 338,191 249,805 343,647
Final divs. .. 82,125 61,375 61,375
Freeholds .. ~ 1,668,482 1,671,762 1,669,963
Plant, etc 253,782 292,184 278,964
Stocks .. .. 2,112,325 2,218,514 2,832.949
Book debts .. 798,279 880,789 1.054,917
Investments, cash, etc. 243,293 285,155 243,060
The year’s net addition to stocks, which
appear at a conservative figure, was
£114,435, and to book debts £174,128.
The improvement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£1,121,292) was £191,180.
When the books closed there was 16s. 2d.
of outside money in the business for every
pound belonging to shareholders. The
new capital, however, will substantially
ease the position in this respect.
Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Ke- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 33,552 13.6 p.c. = 30,000 3,552 11,358
1941.. 45,510 13.6 „ „ 30.000 15,510 26,868
1942.. 28,434 9.1 „ „ 20,000 8,434 35,302
1943.. 30,258 9.1 „ „ 20,000 10,258 45,560
1944.. 30,442 9,1 „ „ 20,000 10,442 56,002
1945.. 36,960 11.3 „ „ 25,852 11,108 67,110
1946.. 34,465 9.1 „ „ 21,363 13,102 80,212
1947.. 52,994 13.6 „ „ 37,083 15,911 96,123
1948.. 71,355 13.6 „ „ 42,812 28,543 124,666
Share premiums, £38,750 .. .. 163,416
1949.. 58,097 10 p.c. = 37,125 20,972 184,388
1950.. 67,261 12.5 „ „ 51,562 15,699 200,087
Operating largely on its own account
in the wool, hides and furred-skins
markets, the co. also does a brisk fell-
mongering, wool-scouring, tanning and
merchandising business. Since the war
the spread of interests has been consid-
erably widened, and, with a run of good
seasons, stimulated by the inflationary
price-rises, turnover has bounded along
and earnings have responded.
During the three years to the close
of last accounts, a stock-foods and
-medicine factory has been set np
at Botany (N.S.W.), near the tan-
nery, to which additions have been
made, a new store, with 60,000 square
feet of floor space, has been erected in
Melbourne, and a subsidiary, French
Australian Import Co., Pty., was formed
to handle tractors, trucks and cars im-
ported from France. Since the close of
accounts two subsidiaries have been set
up in _ New Zealand—Wilcox Mofflin
(N.Z.), Ltd., and Power Equipment
(N.Z.) Pty., which is to handle the tractor
business in the Dominion —and a control-
ling interest has been bought at an un-
stated figure in Govan Industries Pty., a
Victorian concern which makes agricul-
tural equipment and veterinary instru-
ments.
To help finance the growth £192,500 of
fresh capital, which brought with it
£38,750 of share premiums, was gathered
during the five years to June 30 last, and
net earnings have nearly doubled over the
same period. Though the U.S.A., where
some of the co.’s best customers were,
was a comparatively small buyer of wool
and skins, net earnings increased by
£9164 last term, reaching £67,261, or
16.3 p.c. on capital as against 15.6, 20.4,
19.4, 14.6 and 15.1 p.c. back to 1945. The
div. was lifted from 10 p.c. to 12.5 p.c.,
of which 2} p.c. was a tax-free bonus.
No account was taken in the parent’s
books of the profit earned and loss
sustained by subsidiary cos. The parent’s
exports are all sold for sterling, and are
covered by forward exchange.
Outstanding features of balance-sheet
figures are the growth of £454,626 in
stocks and the addition of £359,012 to
the overdraft and of £155,444 to the
amount coming to sundry creditors. The
figures are interrelated, and growths
therein are due mainly to the abnormally
high prices for wool and sheepskins;
1947. 1948. 1949. 1950.
Paid capital. . £275,000 £330,000 £412,500 £412,600
Overdraft .. 649,479 721,607 562,286 921.298
Creditors* .. 198,227 325,872 311,332 466.776
Final div. .. 37,083 42,812 37,125 35,062
Freehold, etc. 178,999 197,513 243,041 293,252
Plant, etc. .. 70,143 89,778 122,573 141,818
Stocks . . 924,670 1,115,514 946,659 1,401,285
Book debts .. 57,952 107,303 165,357 163,746
Cash .. ~ 2,051 2,650 1,353 1,424
Shares other cos. 27,097 32,199 28,649 34,199
* Includes provision for taxation.
Owing to the addition of £50,211 to free-
holds and of £19,245 to plant, etc., there
was a contraction of £53,739 in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£177,538).
To ease the pressure of the outside
debt and provide for further expansion
of the business, 250,000 new 11s. shares
were issued at par, one for three, in Sept,
last. That lifted paid capital to £550,000,
on which 12} p.c. would call for £68,750,
or only £1489 more profit than was
claimed last term. Prospects of the co.
earning more than enough to pay 12} p.c.
for the current term are encouraging,
and, as the subsidiaries get firmly upon
their feet, they can be expected to con-
tribute to the pool, too. What the less-
immediate future holds for the co. is
anybody’s guess at the moment. The
12} p.c, div. is by no means secure.
Recently the co.’s scrip was split into
ss. units, which now fetch 10s. 9d. on
the market, giving a return of 5.8 p.c. on
a 12} p.c. distribution. Including the
new issue, net tangible cover (book-value)
is 6s. lOd. And there is an inner re-
serve of over £225,000 in the freeholds,
which were recently revalued, but no
account of the appreciation has been
taken in the books.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
A
A
A
A
V
0-M
PiU
TTtTL
.. **
Ample supplies of
this fine old F reach
liqueur are now avail-
able from leading
Clubs, Hotels and
Wine & Spirit
Merchants.
Chartreuse is distilled
from a secret recipe
which has never been
divulged, and whose
distillation has been
carried on by the
Carthusian Monks of
Dauphine since 1605.
GREEN OR YELLOW
Agents for Australia: McLaughlin & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney
Distributors—Victoria: Stephen King Pty. Ltd., Taylor Ferguson & Co. Pty.
Ltd. South Australia: George Wills & Co. Ltd. Western Australia:
Brown & Dureau Ltd.
CH1.82
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Abvt.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A, MAQNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
'Phone: B.W. 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States.
Enterprise and Capital
set inventions to work
The invention of the bulldozer,
and all the earth moving monsters
that have been sired by it, will en-
able infinitely more similar work
to be done by a man in a day than
any man has ever done before!
Australia needs the work that the
bulldozer and its progeny can do,
but there is something about them
that we should bear in mind.
It is that such inventions come
to our aid only because some man,
or group of men, has provided the
capital necessary for the develop-
ment and manufacture of them
free enterprise is a necessary factor
in putting the invention into pro-
duction and use.
In free enterprise we have a
system to attain our ends almost
unbelievable in its simplicity and
effectiveness. It is this Bank’s
privilege to serve an increasing
number of men and companies
engaged in it.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
WITH WHICH IS AMALGAMATED THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
TODAY'S PROTECTION
TOMORROWS SECURITY
Fifty-five years of service to
the public is the proud record
of the Metropolitan. Policies
to suit every purpose.
EVERY YEAR A BONUS
YEAR.
tfae
1
irl
88®?
RSSURRNCE CQMPRNY LTD
HUNTER AND BLICH STREET SYDNEY
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
Re ;
June, Profit- sm».
>44.. 287,244 30 = 240,000 2,452,546
>45.. 384,861 35 = 280,000 2,507,407
InveS £2s?i2s Wr ! en .. 2,532,282
■46.. 356,304 35 = 280,000 2.608,586
’47 1 102 981* 105= 840,000 2,871,567
’ls" 949,289 110= 880,000 2,940,850
’49.V i,456,297 130 = i,040’000 3,857,153
* s jiVciudes >4 £4i9^ooo = originally
for War-time (Co.) Tax. t Excludes re-
ET workme?f ki c n omp ( e n „°l ti (now
£148,627).
Earnings are governed mostly
by the course of metal prices
and costs. The slip in last term’s
net result was due mainly to the
lower average price received for
lead. The averages for zinc and
silver were slightly better, and
21,800 tons more crude ore was
put through the mill:
Crudes f Assay N
* L p“ a -
1947.. 278,320 12.8 6.9 n. 7
llil:: gjgj as li 11:1
1950.. 286,670 i 2.7 7.5 12.2
t Sulphides.
Total metal content of the lead
and zinc concentrates and final
residues compare as follows:
Lead, Silver, Zinc,
1949.. 1,9? 3 ; 8 52
1950.. 36,276 2,164,017 34.978
About 24 p.c. of the lead pro-
duced—the lead concentrates are
smelted at Port Pirie—was sold
locally at the fixed price of
£A3S per ton as against an over-
seas average for the year of
£S9B per ton. And about 40 p.c,
of the zinc output —the zinc con-
centrates are taken by Electro-
lytic Zinc —was sold on the basis
of £A4O per ton compared with
an overseas average of £S99 per
ton. This subsidy to Australian
industry reduced the co.’s
revenue by about £700,000.
The board put the year’s net
earnings from mining at
£895,221 (down £268,724) and
from investments at £245,964
(up £34,711):
Declared profit— 1949. 1950.
Mining.. ..£1,163,945 £895.221
Investments .. 211,253 245.964
Total .. £1,375,198 £1,141,185
The £1,182,459 of profit shown
in the introductory table in-
cludes £7233 surplus on sale of
investments, £21,873 unex-
plained addition to reserves and
£33,000 allowed for deprecia-
tion, less £20,832 spent on
plant. The £1,141,185 of profit
claimed was equal to 7s. l£d.
(142.6 p.c.) per ss. share, and
6s. (120 p.c.) was paid in divs.
as against 6s. 6d. (130 p.c.) for
the previous term. The
£1,141,185 was written after
allowing for depreciation
(£33,000), royalties (£236,000),
taxation (£528,800), and contri-
butions under the Workmen’s
Compensation Act (£50,000) and
B.H. Mine Employees’ Pension
Fund (£100,000).
At June 30 ore reserves were
conservatively estimated at
1,950,000 tons (down 20,000
tons), equal to about seven
years’ work for the mill at the
current rate of throughput.
Drilling and development, how-
ever, suggest that there is a con-
siderable tonnage of pay-ore
outside the measured limits,
especially with metal prices as
they are.
Meanwhile the hunt for new
mineral deposits of economic
size continues. Drilling, in con-
junction with Zinc Corp., on the
Little Broken Hill-Laurel anti-
cline has so far failed to disclose
anything of much value. In con-
junction with North 8.H., the
co. is testing the old Zeehan
field (Tas.), where shaftsinking
and crosscutting are in progress
to determine the size and value
of' ore occurrences located by
drilling. It is too early yet, says
the chairman, to estimate the
value of this proposition. At
Trekelano (Q.) exploratory dril-
ling has indicated extension of
the copper mineralisation north
of the existing workings, and the
co. has exercised its option over
the leases. Areas near Kuridala
and Chillagoe (Q.) are also being
examined.
Since the close of accounts,
the most striking economic de-
velopment has been the upsurge
of base-metal prices, due
primarily to the swelling volume
of American industrial and
stockpiling purchases. London
prices for lead and zinc (they
keep in step with the American
market) have been as follows:
Avge.
1950. Lead. Zinc.
June .. £S9S 17 3 £SI2S 1 4
Sept. .. 127 11 11 142 18 0
Nov. 1 .. 136 0 0 151 0 0
The fixed price for lead and
zinc in Australia was lifted to
£A6S per ton for each metal on
Sept. 18, 1950. To Australian
producers much of the overall
gain will be swallowed by
the increased lead bonus paid
to employees, and the rise on
other costs. Still, current over-
seas prices (they are at record
levels) mean a big lift in earnings
for the Barrier cos. The crucial
question for holders of base-
metal shares is how long this
boom in metals can continue.
No clear-cut answer can be given
at the moment. The market
factors operating are many and
complex; much depends upon
the duration and tempo of the
world-wide rearmament pro-
gramme which has followed in
the wake of the Korean affair.
The market for South’s
f.-p. ss. shares, which has fol-
lowed the market for the metals,
advanced from 395. in June,
1949, to 48s. 3d. in June, 1950,
and to 555. 6d. last week. The
immediate return at 555. 6d. is
10.7 p.c. on a 120 p.c. distribu-
tion. At 555. 6d. the market
values the undertaking at
£8,880,000. The surplus of in-
vestments and current assets over
current liabilities at June 30 was
£3,943,476.
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie,
Ltd. (W.A.), one of the Western
Mining Corp. group, is moving
along on an even keel. For the
24 weeks to Sept. 12 last 76,200
tons ore was milled for 19,2670 z.
fine gold, an average of s.o6dwt.
For the year to March 31, 1950,
163,213 tons yielded 41,4370 z.
fine gold, an average of s.o7dwt.
Profit was £139,862 (up £73,919),
and divs. 2s. 3d. (up Is. 3d.) a
share, thanks to the lift in the
price of gold. Ore reserves at
end March last were 486,150
tons, averaging s.4dwt. Recent
developments have disclosed
1190 ft. of ore averaging 7dwt.
over a width of 59in. The f.-p.
10s. shares fetch 2ls. 4d. in the
market as against 18s. 4d. at end
1949.
* * * ♦
Deborah Associated, N.L.
(Vic.), has sold its property, paid
its debts and has £9BO in the
kitty. It will make a first and
final distribution of 50s. per 100
shares upon surrender of the
scrip.


MS
X
%
s
o'.
ml
A good word
for everybo
The importance of
Planning your Will
Your Estate will not yield its
maximum for the protection of
your dependents unless your Will
has been carefully planned.
Changing conditions and the
complexities of taxation are two
important problems to be consid-
ered; there are many others known
to those whose business it is to
administer Estates, but which can
easily be overlooked by those not
so experienced.
id
I'M.
£
tB
B m
IXf r
li
ail
By discussing your problems, in confidence, with
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited, you will have the
benefit of the Company’s more than 63 years experience
in the administration of Estates to advise you in your
planning.
By appointing Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as
your Executor and Trustee alone or jointly with a
relative or friend you will solve another important
problem; you will ensure that, when your guiding hand
is withdrawn, your Estate will be efficiently and econom-
ically managed in the best interests of your dependents.
The Company has wide experience in the handling
of Estates of many different kinds—investment, industrial
and pastoral. It has gained the confidence of the public
to sudi a degree that it has become the largest Trustee
Company in the Southern Hemisphere.
There is a helpful and informative booklet “Your
Executor and Trustee” that describes the services the
Company has to offer and the charges.
*Phone B 0377 or write for a copy to-day,
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTER. AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOB ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £68,000,000.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; B. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon, J. P. ABBOTT; D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V. DOUGLASS. Managing Director.
A. a ARMYTAGE. Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAM WORTH and ORANGE
Business. Rollery. etc.
Inflation and Share Prices
One of the few clear economic
trends in Australia today is the
movement towards greater infla-
tion. This trend is lit up almost
as though by a neon sign. Not
only are costs rising in Aus-
tralia as a direct result of the
40-hour week and the proposed
increase of £1 a week in the
basic-wage. Also influencing the
costs-level are the soaring prices
for our exports and the influx of
migrants. The Commonwealth’s
population is now in the vicinity
of 8,200,000, compared with
7,000,000 at the outbreak of
war. This extra population is
increasing the demand for goods
and services without, so far,
adding appreciably to overall
production. At the bottom of
omr production difficulties is the
shortage of coal, from which
shortage of electricity and steel
directly arises.
Inflationary forces at present
are those chiefly responsible for
the sustained upward movement
in share prices. Last week saw
new records established for a
number of market leaders. The
trend in share prices has been
steadily upward for several
weeks—almost, in fact, since the
sharemarket got oyer its Korean
jitters.
Another factor at work in
Australian sharemarket prices
has been a flow of overseas
money to Australia apart frbm
that which we have received for
the sale of our wool and other
products abroad. In his annual
report Dr. Coombs, governor of
the Commonwealth Bank, sug-
gested that there is at present
£3OO million of “temporary capi-
tal” in Australia. Much of this
came to Australia in anticipa-
tion of a profitable “ride” —that
is, it was hoped to send it to
Australia and gather a 25 p.c.
premium and repatriate it when
the Australian pound came to par
with sterling. But Prime Minister
Menzies has said that no return
to parity is contemplated.
Most of this money is still
here. Hopes of an exchange
profit have not yet entirely died.
But, meantime, some of the
money appears to be moving
from the bond market to the
market for industrial shares, and
it is influencing the high prices
being bid for sound industrials.
It is also true that fresh money
is still coming direct from Lon-
don for investment in front-
rank Australian shares. Tax re-
bates give the British investor a
higher yield than the Australian.
Australia is likely to become
more of a focal-point of Lon-
don investment interest as time
goes by. One after another
traditional repositories for British
overseas investment have be-
come risky with the rise of local
“nationalistic” governmental
policies. South America is not
as popular as it was with British
investors, and India and Egypt
have become “difficult.” South
Africa is not without its politi-
cal risks these days, either.
Canada would be a good coun-
try for Britain to invest in—if
it had the dollars to invest. New
Zealand is short of the coal and
steel necessary to make it a
great industrial nation, Aus-
tralia has many of the potenti-
alities of another North America
—not all of them admittedly,
but undoubtedly many of them
—and whilst political experi-
mentalism and adventurism are
hindering development of the
country, the potentialities are ob-
viously here. It happens, too,
that British currency is more
readily convertible into Aus-
tralian money than into most
other currencies.
These money influences are
some of the factors behind the
present buoyant market for
Australian industrial and other
shares. In few cases are actual
profits of a , size to warrant pre-
sent quotations. Most front-
rank stocks give a return of
well under 3 p.c. From one
cause and another the Australian
investor is forced to pay inflated
prices for shares on ’Change,
and it is difficult indeed to find
anything in the way of a stock
“Jush like me ole horsh when it sees Water!”
or share that will give a reason-
able yield and at the same time
offer some protection against
the inflation that is robbing
money investments of their buy-
ing-potver.
Of course, many Australian
investors are flush with money
themselves right now. These
are mostly new investors —that
is, they have earned money away
from the Stock Exchange but are
anxious to put it into something
other than fixed deposits or
Commonwealth bonds. Very
often they are pastoralists,
graziers, wheatfarmers or pro-
fessional men who have some
other ultimate object for the dis-
posal of their money, but mean-
time desire to see it put away
into something that will have a
chance of keeping pace with
costs-inflation. For instance, it
is estimated that the £l-a-week
increase in the basic-wage will
add £3OO or so to the cost of an
ordinary cottage. Those unable
to build at present, for various
reasons, may seek to offset such
higher costs by obtaining a capi-
tal increment in otherwise idle
funds.
Obviously there is a great deal
that is unhealthy in the present
industrial and investment situa-
tion. Investing today is not a
remunerative proposition from
an income point of view; and
capital profits depend upon a
continuance of money-pressure
in the investment market. That
is, unless coal and other pro-
duction in the Commonwealth
rises to the point where higher
profits are possible because of
greater output and turnover,
which would have the effect of
putting value back into the con-
sumer’s pound as well as the
investor’s pound. With higher
industrial output should come
higher dividends from industry,
and that would justify present
high prices for many stocks
apart from the inflation factor.
As it is, people turning in in-
creasing numbers to the share-
market in order to protect the
buying-power of their savings
have a good deal of reason on
their side. But they Should be
prepared to hold in the event of
any general setbacks, of which
we usually have one or two each
year. And they should distrust
the tendency towards making
bonus issues, or at least analyse
the financial position of the co.
concerned. Unless it is likely
that a higher total dividend is
to be received from the bonus-
inflated holding the shareholder
is no better off. Some concerns
making bonus issues do not con-
template any immediate increase
in profits or total dividend distri-
butions. They are more con-
cerned with bringing their capi-
tal account into line with total
shareholders’ funds, especially
where the latter include share-
premiums Which were charged
by order of the Treasury.
Rents and Values
“Pure Australian” (Sydney)
tells his story;
I spent half a lifetime converting
a wilderness into a fine pastoral
property of lasting benefit to the
nation, and my health failed in the
process just when I should have been
able to take things easier. Not being
able to work any more I reluctantly
sold my property and sought advice
from The Bulletin about invest-
ments, and it will be seen how foolish
I was not to have acted on The
Bulletin’s advice. This was when
N. S. Wales Premier B. S. B. Stevens
was asking those who could to do
their duty, as patriotic citizens, to
assist the wofking man, then in dire
straits.
I was negotiating to buy Tooth’s
Brewery shares at a little more than
20s. when fate threw a builder in
my path. His entreaty persuaaed
me to follow Mr. Stevens. While
spec, builders were sweating good
men we erected flats at more than
award wages, and most of the men
responded welL The building was
completed in late-1936, when condi-
tions were improving, and I could
have got considerably more than the
30s. a week I asked for each apart-
ment. They are of three bedrooms,
large living-room, kitchen and
separate w.c., and are in the centre
of a thriving East Sydney suburban
shopping area.
Although I have spent much money
in rates and trying to keep them up to
a high standard I am not receiving
any more for them now. The men 1
once helped make it impossible to
maintain them as I used to. To
replace even a broken light-switch
costs more than a week’s rent. Many
of the apartments are overloaded
with paying-guests and my tenants
are reaping the benefits of my wasting
asset. The extra wear is fast reducing
the property into a slum.
If I had taken The Bulletin’s
advice I could have lived in comfort,
with peace of mind, all these years.
There would have been no abscond-
ing tenants, no perpetual growls from
those who could never be satisfied,
no constant worry about repairs and
general maintenance. With Tooth’s
shares I should have been able to sit
back and not even be put to the
trouble to collect my handsome divi-
dends. I could have been a respected
gentleman, and not a grasping land-
lord, but X would not have been of
any use at ail to my country.
People like “K.R.” and “H.A.L.”
(B. 27/9/’5O) are astray. The value
of house-property depends enor-
mously on the two letters “V.P.,”
and without vacant possession a
house let at 1939 rates is not by any
means an attractive investment except
to the person living in it, who could
get it far below its real value and
sell it at great profit with V.P. and
keep the proceeds tax-free by having
payment above purchase-price made
secretly in cash. While tenants
demand that they be allowed to
batten on the owners, the authorities
should at least subsidise repairs and
expenses above the 1939 rates. They
will not do that, however, as it has
been made a crime to be sufficiently
thrifty to own property.
Today I would have been receiving
£lO,OOO a year from wool from my
first property, but instead am living
with difficulty on something below
the basic wage, and this during a
period of years of the greatest pros-
perity the nation has ever experienced,
and when money flows in ever-
widening streams through the hands
of bookmakers, beer-barons and pro-
moters of luxury-living, all of whom
do nothing to increase the produc-
tivity of the country or promote
happiness for the people. Such is
“democracy,” Australian style.
“K.R.” and “H.A.L.” forget that
money expressed in £ s. d. is worth
only what it can buy; they, through
some twisted reasoning, think that
anything bought for a pound in 1939
should be still valued at a pound,
when actually, instead of the 20 shil-
lings there once was in the pound,
there are now only about seven. To
break even I should be getting £4 10s.
a week at least from each flat, and
even at that it would be difficult to
have repairs done at an economical
level. With the 90s. I certainly would
not at present be any better off than
I was in 1939, when I got 30s. As 1
cannot hope to equal the voting
strength of tenants 1 do not expect
(and 1 know I will not be given) any
consideration.


Be glad you're not
beautiful
Pity, don’t envy, hand'
some people. They’re the
ones more apt to be hurt in
life by their looks.
In November Reader’s
Digest James F. Bender,
Director, The National In-
stitute for Human Relations
in U.S.A., shows how surpris-
ing facts indicate natural
good looks are a definite
handicap in school, job,
marriage. Why plain Janes
and Joes get the most out of
life, age more attractively,
win success more easily.
This is just one of 32
articles condensed from lead-
ing magazines, current books.
Get your November Reader’s
Digest to-day. Only one
shilling and sixpence. All
newsagents and bookstalls.
R6fR 6S«»« 6
At all times, and
especially in the bath, Cuticura
Soap makes the skin delightfully
smooth and charming. Cuticura
Soap has antiseptic proper-
ties which remove all trace?
of roughness and soreness.
One of the famous trio—
Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment, Talcum
Powder.
.523
M
gdf
ALL-BRITISH
ALL-BRITISH
(oiway
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
gdf
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS s
O. 0. GALE (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies In all Country Centres
Hannover Trade Fair
GERMANY, 1951
The Best in German Production
Light Industries Fair Heavy Industries Fair
February 28 to March 4 April 29 to May 8
Australian Office: P.O. Box 1273, Melbourne
“TOOL UP”
YOUR MACHINE SHOP WITH.
HIGH LEVEL ILLUMINATION
Mi
n
K' < - '-• f JS
[ JB**WWi
i I .
rnmmmmm
\, • T< 1 > ■ J .j..- 4 rT
.
■ m
\J
*<k
■r* o
HB
i
■
I i
*
■
■
- -
:
■
■
t ■ .
a
a
mm
a
- ‘
m.
REDUCE ERRORS AND LABOUR TURNOVER
WITH CLAUDE COLD CATHODE
FLUORESCENT
LIGHTING
NEON
DISPLAYS
PORCELAIN
ENAMEL
The link between good workmen
and good work is good lighting.
That is why Claude Cold Cathode
Fluorescent Lighting is as funda-
mental to production efficiency as
are good machine tools.
Claude Cold Cathode lighting
raises the general level of illumina-
tion for the most critical seeing
operations without increasing
shop temperatures, without pro-
ducing the deep shadows and glare,
and consequent eye-fatigue, nor-
mally associated with increasing
light intensity.
The all-round advantages that
accrue are tangible—reduction of
rejects, of accidents, labour turn-
over and costs, as well as lower
costs per lumen and increased
lamp life.
Call your nearest Claude office for
all the facts, and for details of the
Claude Rental Plan, which avoids
the necessity of incurring capital
expenditure.
CLAUDE
E O N LIMITED
SYDNEY - NEWCASTLE - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH - HOBART - LAUNCESTON
Maoriland Share Prices
Taking their cue from Aus-
tralia, New Zealand investors
have rarely shown more zest
than in late weeks, and pre-
Korean peaks have been left
well behind in the general up-
surge in shares. In the scramble
to get aboard the band-wagon
buyers have set a hot pace for
undemonstrative Maorilanders
in a “bullish” atmosphere, where
the cautiousness which tempered
“bearish” trends back in the
first couple of months of the
“hot” war, when a temporary
shadow was cast over shares,
was cast to the four winds.
Maoriland’s “insulated”
economy, never proof against
investment influences from
across the Tasman, was in its
most responsive mood. As Aus-
tralian ceilings were lifted
Maorilanders broke through old
limits, and trans-Tasman mar-
gins weren’t allowed to diverge
much beyond the fairly elastic
range of 5 to \l\ p.c. reached
in the first two years of the
Australian-N.Z. currency gap.
When £1 in every £5 is chopped
off Australian divs. for M.L.
holders, yields are drifting back
all along the lipe, and N.Z.
shares are affected, too.
Maorilanders cling to hopes
that the undervalued £A can’t
be pegged at its present rate in-
definitely, and figure that the
rising tempo of paper prosperity
will hasten the day when some-
thing will have to be done about
it. They’re prepared to take a
div. loss they think can’t be more
than temporary for the sake of
possible gains in other forms,
including new issues and
bonuses, and a prospective rise
on revaluation.
During the year ended June
30 —that is, up to the time of
the Korean explosion—the aver-
age level of share prices in N.Z.
rose by 3.7 per cent, and reached
60 per cent, above pre-war.
This was a shade below the post-
war peak of 61.25 p.c. recorded
in 1948. Shares most in the
limelight over the past year or
two have been those in the path
of the wool boom —i.e., loan-
and-agency scrip—and, close be-
hind, any which are a handy
bridge for gathering in sterling
funds to be spent on imports
(mainly motor-cars) under “no-
remittance” licences. Buying and
selling of shares to short-circuit
M.L.’s cumbersome import-
control is illegal, but the temp-
tation is too strong for many
to resist. Prime Minister Hol-
land said lately there has been
“an awful lot” of this kind of
dealing.
Signs are becoming clearer
that more competitive trade is
ahead for N.Z. cos., partly be-
cause rising prices are putting
the brake on demand and partly
as a result of relaxing import
controls, to overcome shortages
in most directions, although not
everywhere. Business is begin-
ning to rouse itself and to re-
cover a little of the spirit of
adventure that was lost under
Socialism, but it will have to be
satisfied with smaller rewards
than in the days when sellers
had things their own way. Div.-
rises are still seen here and there,
where industry is in good heart,
but the barometer generally
points to “steady,” with a tend-
ency to “change.”
The Motor Trade
Warning has been sounded
that Australia may expect a re-
duction in its imports of cars
following announcements of
shortages of sheet steel in
England, with a probable
reduction in allocations to
the motor industry in the
new year. Similar warnings
have been given in America.
Whilst priority will probably be
granted to export industries in
England, growing defence com-
mitments may eventually decide
the issue.
In this country the demand
for cars has remained high since
the war, and this has been re-
flected in the notable expansion
of motor-distributing concerns.
Larke, Hoskins (Sydney) has
increased its capital (now
£240,000) by £180,297 since
1946, of which £9602 represents
capitalisation of reserves, the re-
mainder being gathered in
par issues. Shareholders have
received dividends averaging 21
p.c. over the same period (includ-
ing a bonus of 30 p.c., making
50 p.c. altogether, last term). In
1946 the £1 shares were priced
at 31s. 6d. Now the ss. units
are bringing 245. on the market.
Austin Distributors, Ltd, (Mel-
bourne), has paid to share-
holders dividends averaging 25
p.c. over the past five years, and
in addition has issued £50,000 in
bonus scrip. A further bonus
issue of £37,500 has recently
been announced, bringing the
total capital-increase to £112,500
over the period mentioned,
whilst shares once priced at 445.
(£1) have risen to 31s. 9d. per
ss. unit.
The capital of York Motors
(Holdings), Ltd., now £680,000,
increased by £368,000 since
1946, £BO,OOO of which was
in bonus shares, £BB,OOO in £1
shares at a premium of 205., and
£200,000 a par issue. Dividend-
payments have averaged 17 p.c.
for the period (last year 25 p.c.)
and the £1 shares are now at
595. 9d. compared with 375. 6d.
in 1947.
The future of the industry in
Australia is unpredictable.
Demand for cars remains high
despite increasing sales-taxes and
rising costs of petrol and acces-
sories. Restrictions upon growth
are likely to be decided by
supply factors, but this feature,
together with those already men-
tioned, is common to many
other industries. The problem
of growth is best considered in
the light of the general future
of our economy rather than in
terms of a particular industry.
Socialised Medicine
One of the biggest jobs of
financial cleaning-up to be
tackled in New Zealand since
the Socialists were given the
boot is in the greatly-overgrown
medical and health services, now
costing £2O million yearly, or
more than £lO a head for every
Maorilander. The system, which
has run badly to seed since the
Welfare State was launched 10
years ago, shows all the symp-
toms of abnormal glandular de-
velopment, and demands drastic
treatment, if not a major opera-
tion. Axes rather than knives
are needed to chop away the
dense overgrowth and carry out
much overdue pruning to reduce
the services to a healthy basis.
Mr. L. T. Watts, Minister for
Health, who inherited control
from the Socialists, has had
plenty of shocks since he began
delving into the affairs of his
department, and has charged the
Socialists with doing nothing to
get rid of waste, abuses and
extravagance. On the average,
according to him, every man,
woman and child in Maoriland
visits a doctor three to four
times a year, at a cost of 7s. 6d.
a time to the State and a further
ss. 9d. for free medicine.
Some medicos, with get-rich-
quick ideas, have been coining
money at the expense of tax-
payers. One collected £15,000
from the Social Security Fund
in a year, another £13,750, a
third £10,997 and a “very young
practitioner” an average of more
than £7OOO annually for four
years. Prescriptions costing up
to £lO each have been “not un-
common.” Until lately, it
seemed, nobody cared, but now
the aid of the profession,
through the 8.M.A., has been
enlisted to help curb the drift
and restore the profession’s
tarnished prestige.
The costly experience is a
warning to other countries
against rushing headlong into
misnamed “health” schemes
without proper planning or
organisation. To the Socialists
the health of the people was a
political orange, to be squeezed
for all the votes that could be
got out of it, regardless of
almost unbearable burdens
thrust on conscientious senior
departmental officers and hard-
working hospital-board execu-
tives, who were expected some-
how to keep hospitals staffed in
M.L.’s overfull employment
market and to make ends meet
while costs soared.
Maorilanders who once prided
themselves on their health and
stamina inherited from pioneers
saw an increase in drug-addicts
among folk who started with
nothing worse than ordinary
aches and pains, or were just
nervy or run-down. Decent citi-
zens, who were expected to pay
whatever the Socialists de-
manded without demur, could do
nothing about it, so the drift
went on. New Zealand has the
world record for spending on
the sick, and probably holds the
world’s title also for the number
of cupboards, in relation to
population, filled with medicine-
bottles.


Women’ Letters
From Sydney
All the energetic people who are help-
ing with the Jubilee celebrations for next
year were entertained at a cocktail-party
at Victoria Barracks by Lt.-General F. H.
Berryman and Mrs. Berryman last Friday
At the party the military men in uniform
looked so trig and well-groomed that
attention was rather distracted from the
way the women were dressed. However,
hats were notable, especially Mrs. Berry-
man’s head-hugging cloche entirely
covered with blue feathers. Her daughter
Ann (Mrs. W. Wills) wore a large grey
hat with her grey faille duster. Large
hats are becoming very popular for cock-
tail wear, another lovely one in black
with a lacy brim being worn by Mrs. C.
Long, wife of Lt.-Colonel Long. Wearing
small hats were Mrs. H. A. Showers, who
trimmed her black one with perky white
flowers to match her lively expression,
Mrs. Jean Strauss, whose white cloche
had a tab turned up at the side with her
initials on it, Mrs. Miculicic-Rodd, whose
hat was red with berries, and Mrs. R.
McNicoll, who had a tiny tan straw
basket decorating her white summer felt.
An award of merit should go to the Mess
Sergeant who was responsible for the
beautiful flower-display, the centrepieces
of the tables being red ribbons, gladioli
and cherries.
When the Archbishop of Canterbury
flew from Sydney to Hobart over the
weekend Mrs. Fisher (who never travels
by air) attended a Retreat for members
of the C. of E. Mothers’ Union at Gibulla,
Menangle, the beautiful home of the
Macarthur-Onslows, which has been raken
over by the Church of England for a
Retreat House. This quiet time must
have given Mrs. Fisher a much-needed
respite from the arduous duties of the
tour. The Mothers’ Union, of which
Queen Elizabeth is world patron, will
hold a rally on November 22, when Mrs.
Fisher will address the members. The
response to this rally has been tremen-
dous, every seat in the Town Hall being
already sold.
A couple of thousand youngsters (and
some oldsters) attended the two big
Square Dances held last week at the
Town Hall and the Trocadero. The Town
Hall was so packed one could scarcely
breathe, the caller’s voice came muddily
over the mike, nobody knew how to do
the dances properly, people fell over,
some collapsed, the effect was chaotic.
Still, they all seemed to be enjoying them-
selves. Would-be square-dancers should
remember to use a “walking-step” instead
of the prancing, skipping, capering and
odd bits of jitterbugging they apparently
think correct at the moment. In a place
as large as the Town Hall, too, extra
speakers should be installed so that the
caller’s voice comes simultaneously to
everyone in the room.
At the Trocadero, where the dance was
held in aid of the Kindergarten Union,
things were better organised. Here were
more space, more air, fewer people and
an intelligible caller (Joe McCormack).
Young radio-stars gave a demonstration
first, then chose other partners for the
dance, so that beginners had a chance to
pick up the idea quickly, and there was
some semblance of order. Among the
dancers was young Jan Edwards, wearing
black-and-white pique trimmed with ric-
rac braid and accompanied by Ken
Turner. Ken’s sister Lois wore a lovely
sun-top dress of Sea-Island cotton with
a tiny matching jacket. The cool, white-
blouse fashion was followed by Jose
Goldberg and Mardi Burgess. The prize
for the best dress went to Joan Dinning
in white pique with red-and-blue-check
diamond patches on the skirt. Most of
the boys were coatless, some wearing
bright scarves tied cowboy-fashion round
their necks.
The members of City Tattersall’s
Club created a precedent when they
invited women to a fashion-show
in their new cocktail-lounge. The
party, which was in aid of the
Northcott Neurological Centre and the
Spastic Centre, saw Cup fashions pre-
sented in a unique way, the girls forming
tableaux for Derby Day, Cup Day and
the cocktail-hour. In the Cup-Day
tableau Joe Berry (wearing a fawn
topper) called the odds, Cyril Angles de-
scribed the race in his best radio manner,
and the models put on a good show of
placing bets, watching the race and tear-
ing up betting-slips in disappointment
when it was over. Mr. and Mrs. George
Herdsman received the guests, who re-
sponded gaily to the entertaining show
compared by George Foster. The clothes
in the fashion-show, which were designed
and made by Beril-Jents, were something
very special. A cocoa beaded tunic in the
1920 style (but waisted) was worn with a
stunning velveteen duster in tangerine. A
strapless brown linen dress was
embroidered at the top with white straw
flowers and pearls. Pearls and cyclamen
shells decorated the top of a wonderful
dress of orchid chiffon. Black straw
flowers lay in clusters on the bouffant
skirt of a black marquisette evening dress.
The most beautiful dress was made of
apple-green chiffon, minutely pleated in
the four layers of skirt which were re-
leased in four satin-bound frilled hems.
The accessories were from Prouds, and
included jewellery by Simpson, who said
that crystal and jet is the coming thing,
so don’t throw away any of that jet which
grandma left you.
Anita Aarons is the sculptor of that
controversial oblong lady recently shown
in the Contemporary Art Show and of
the smaller pieces shown for interiors
During the war years Anita devoted her-
self to domestic life (she is Mrs. Alfred
Date, of Castlecrag), and to bringing up
her two little girls. During the past two
years, however, she has taken up sculpting
again, and this year exhibited eight pieces.
She is at present working to a strenuous
schedule of five full days a week in the
studio. She prefers to work in terra-
cotta, but has difficulty in getting it fired,
so for her large architectural sculptury
she has experimented in concrete, which
is built on a wire and terra-cotta frame.
The concrete figures, though very large,
are not as heavy as they might be, for
they are hollow inside. Even so, her
“Reclining Lady” weighs three hundred-
weight. Her work, though stylised, has
the pleasing quality of making its sub-
jects recognisable even to the untutored
eye. Her “Cats” and “Friedel’s Hen” are
delightful. Anita is small, brown-eyed
and vivacious—what is known to the
dailies as “an attractive brunette.”
The recital by New Australians at the
Town Hall introduced a fresh fashion-
note for men when the members of the
Ukrainian choir filed on to the stage wear-
ing blue satin trousers tucked into
chamois boots, red satin cummerbunds
and white shirts finely embroidered in
cross-stitch or flower designs. This is the
happy sort of dressing that should go with
singing—certainly the New Australians
needed it to offset their solemn, earnest
faces—so perhaps all masculine per-
formers may be persuaded to introduce
a little color into their dressing; maybe
only a brocade waistcoat to begin with,
later developing to something really
spectacular.
The death of George Bernard Shaw
should mean a little more to women than
it does to men. For women he provided
the same intellectual delight, the same
mental stimulation, the same entertain-
ment. But for women also he was an
advocate, speaking in a firm clear voice,
aware of their problems and offering solu-
tions. Although he did not fully under-
stand either women or their problems,
he did his best for them, and for this bless
him!
Alice Allen Innes, well-known Sydney
personality, who lived for many years in
New Guinea and Samarai, has just pub-
lished a small book of poems, “Songs
from the South Seas.” In the preface
Dame Mary Gilmore says: “Mrs. Innes’s
aim is not fine writing, but life in what
is written. The result is that the very
names, the island words, awaken nostalgia
for the old dreams of youth ; the days
when island names and island words
burned as the gems of an unknown
world.” It is a sincere little book, full of
nostalgia, longing from St. Aignon for
the homely flowers in Martin-place, long-
ing in King-street for “early paw-paw,
dew-bedecked, sprayed with sipora, per-
fumed and dawn-cold.”
From Melbourne
Flying the flag of Rear-Admiral J. A.
S. Eccles, H.M.A.S. Australia arrived at
Port Melbourne for the fleet’s annual
Flemington manoeuvres. Later in the day
the First Naval Member, Vice-Admiral
J. A. Collins, gave a party on board
the flagship. Red - and - white - striped
awnings enclosed the quarter-deck,
on which Vice-Admiral Collins and his
wife received the guests, assisted by Rear-
Admiral Eccles, Captain G. C. Oldham
and Mrs. Oldham. Adding their festive
notes were the music of the band and the
ship’s silver challenge-cups filled with
deep-red stocks and gardenias, Mrs.
Collins wore a frock of angora in
hyacinth-blue topped by a velour cloche
in matching tones. Mrs. G. C. Oldham’s
frock of gunmetal shot taffeta had for
company a hat of the same material,
the fluted brim matching the accordion-
pleating which edged the apron skirt of
the frock. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J.
S. Disney, was in grey tweed suit and
small grey feather-trimmed cloche. Lady
Eager, wife of the president of the Legis-
lative Council, wore a black ensemble.
Lady Hyde’s choice was a dusty-pink
frock and a tiny black-velvet cap en-
crusted with pearls. Mrs. Crosbie Hucks’s
small hat was finished with lily-of-the-
valley; her jacket-suit was of junior-navy
gaberdine.
Pauline, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Wallis, of Warrawee, Seymour,
will be married on November 14 to
Robert, son of Mr. and Mrs. A. G.
Hunter, of Northwood Park, Seymour.
Bridesmaids will be Gwenda Mclntosh
and Gwen Thomas, who will come from
Hobart to attend her. Wedding will
be at the Toorak Presbyterian Church,
and the reception at Grosvenor. Pauline
was guest-of-honor at the party given
by Mrs. Hunter at the Windsor.
Despite the train strike and bad
weather, the element of gaiety couldn’t
be muscled aside from pre-Cup festivities.
These kicked off with the party at the
Windsor given by Mrs. A. G. Hunter,
who welcomed her guests in a three-
quarter-length frock of navy taffeta shot
with red and revealing a silver stripe.
Pauline Wallis added a small veiled black
cloche to her black frock. Her mother,
Mrs. Frank Wallis, topped a black crepe
skirt with a Chantilly-lace-over-white-
taffeta blouse. Lady Luxton’s grey-and-
black-screen-patterned silk frock was
worn with a short black taffeta jacket
and platter hat. A diamond necklace set
off Mrs. Lytton Stephens’s black
ensemble. Mrs. Ken Luke covered her
black frock with a muted mink jacket;
ospreys cascaded over her black cap. A
gay little scarlet velvet cap and black-
and-white-checked taffeta frock comprised
Mrs. Frank Watts’s outfit. Mrs. T. T.
Hollway was in grey-and-black-printed
taffeta, cut on ballerina lines.
Lord Mayor Disney’s speech of wel-
come to the Lord Archbishop of Canter-
bury, the Rt. Rev. Rt. Hon. Geoffrey
Fisher, and Mrs. Fisher, at the civic re-
ception, was a gem, not even surpassed
by the P.M., who joined with the Lord
Mayor in greeting the distinguished
visitors. Prominent citizens at the recep-
tion included heads of other denomina-
tions, judicial and Parliamentary repre-
sentatives, Service chiefs, and councillors
and their wives. Mrs. Fisher was smart in
a beige-grey ensemble with a swing-back
jacket; matching ribbon trimmed her
black felt hat. Mrs. J, J. Booth’s suit
was stone-grey, her small black hat
feather-trimmed. The Lady Mayoress’s
grey suit was in fine checks, her small
feather-trimmed cloche matching. Mrs.
Bernard Evans was in black, a white
chenille spotted veil contrasting with her
black osprey-trimmed hat. Mrs. Ivor
Mclnnes also wore black, but with a small
hat of cinnamon-brown basket straw
draped with georgette in soft-lime tonings.
Lady Martin covered her brown frock
with a dyed-ermine coat, A blue-and-
white-striped taffeta boater went with
Lady Heinze’s junior-blue jacket-suit.
Mrs. Charles Davidson had dove-grey for
suit and small hat.
Later the Archbishop of Melbourne,
the Rt. Rev. J. J. Booth, and Mrs. Booth
entertained almost 2000 guests at a
garden-party in the grounds of Bishops-
court. Under a 300-year-old tree the
Archbishop of Canterbury and his wife
and Archbishop Booth and Mrs. Booth
stood for 40 minutes receiving the guests.
Mrs. Fisher wore a graceful frock of
brown-and-white patterned silk and a
wide-brimmed hat of brown straw. Aqua-
blue silk crepe fashioned the fitted jacket
and pleated skirt of the suit worn by
Mrs. Booth; her small hat and acces-
sories were in navy tonings. The three
pretty daughters of Archbishop and Mrs.
Booth were busy seeing that guests had
afternoon-tea. Patricia’s junior-navy
frock had white lace trimming on the
collar and cuffs ; Margaret wore a grey
coat over a white frock; Joan was in a
bright-navy jacket-suit. Among the
throng were Angela Cass in parma-violet
suitings; Lady Murdoch, her grey Per-
sian-lamb coat worn with a small white
hat; Mrs. T. T. Hollway, in junior-navy
coat, which had a collar of beige fox
fur, and wide-brimmed junior-navy hat;
Mrs. Con Charlton, her suit of black
French gaberdine; Mrs. lan Potter, who
teamed a junior-navy suit and tiny cloche
of white grosgrain ; and Mrs. John Bray,
in donkey-brown tailored frock and small
black velvet hat.
Shorn of much of its glamor through
the absence of gold-braided uniforms,
the Navy Ball at St. Kilda Town Hall
was still one of the highlights of race-
week. An illuminated model of the
R.A.N. Memorial Chapel, which is to
be erected at Flinders Naval Depot, stood
on a pedestal in the centre of the foyer.
Silhouettes of lighted ships were set
around the balcony of the ballroom, the
stage was set as a quarter-deck, the back-
drop depicted a Pacific anchorage scene
and signal flags flew in the breeze. Later,
white-clad sailors danced a hornpipe.
Rhododendrons were used for table
decorations, and at one end of the ball-
room was a pond filled with waterlilies
and surrounded by a mossy rockery.
Commodore and Mrs. H. J. Buchanan
received the official guests. Mrs.
Buchanan’s gown was of waterlily-green
satin. Mrs. Pete Jarman, wife of the
U.S. Ambassador, wore a gown of pastel
floral nylon chiffon fashioned with a
full skirt and stole effect on the bodice.
Mrs. J. A. Collins danced with her Vice-
Admiral in a soft grey chiffon gown. The
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney, was
in white cloque, with a draped stole worn
over one shoulder. Mrs. Maurice Sail-
man wore a driftaway gown of pastel-
pink chiffon with roses splashed on the
draped skirt. Mrs. T. Wallace Mitchell
was hostess to a crowd of young people,
and later joined the official party for
supper.
The annual Derby-Eve Ball which
Lady Gullett and; her hard-working com-
mittee organise to raise funds for the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children was once again a great success.
Nature was in a particularly nasty mood,
and right at the beginning of the function
wind blew down electric-light standards
and plunged Earl’s Court, where the ball
was held, and the surrounding district into
darkness for an hour. The headlights of
a motor-bike and a small car lit up the
buffet-dinner tables, so all was well. The
incident gave some Sydney visitors quite
a touch of nostalgia. The turf naturally
supplied the decorative motif. “Odds”
were listed under bookies’ umbrellas in
the “saddling-paddock,” horse-rugs and
jockeys’ silks hung from the balconies,
and around the walls were murals of
racehorses and their jockeys. During the
evening there was a Samba competition,
won by that popular American couple
Colonel W. Taylor, U.S. Assistant Army
Attache, and his wife—they learned to
Samba in Ecuador. Lady Gullett covered
her filmy lace gown with a short velvet
jacket embroidered in jet. President of
the ball committee, Mrs. T. O. M.
Edwards, chose gleaming pearl duchesse-
satin for her gown, which had a gathered
skirt from the hipline, which was
embroidered with pearls and diamante to
match the strapless bodice. Mrs. Ken
Guest’s dinner-gown of Kelly-green crepe
wes embellished with gold sequins. Mrs.
Lionel McFadyen’s gown of dull-black
satin had panels of seel-pearl embroidery.
Mrs. Everard Baillieu added to her gown
of mist-blue tulle a tiny jacket of blush-
rose-pink velvet.


The PERFECT Port
at the POPULAR price
g
ROYLO
PERSONAL ITEMS
Short, dark, vital and a master of his
craft, John Charles Webb landed in
Sydney three years back as Lecturer in
Coal Mining at Ultimo (Sydney) Tech-
nical School. Starting mining as a boy of
14 at the coal-face in an Abertillery
(Monmouthshire) pit, Webb attended
night-school for his colliery manager’s
certificate and diploma in mining, won a
scholarship to the University of Wales in
Cardiff, and furthered his studies under
the eminent Professor T, David Jones
(here in 1947 to report on our dust
problems in mines). Last year
Webb became registrar of Sydney’s
new University of Technology ; a post in
which, for so short a time, he attained an
unusual degree of popularity. He left for
the UK. in the Himalaya recently. An
assured speaker and indefatigable worker
for Sydney’s large Welsh Society, he will
be missed in the vice-presidency —he
worked particularly hard for the society
after the death of its president, The
Bulletin’s Ben Elystan-Price.
Casting an expert electrical eye over
Queensland’s possibilities, which he thinks
are great, Sir George Nelson, from Lon-
don. He ought to know —the list of con-
cerns of which he’s been chairman (elec-
trical, wireless, aircraft and shipping, to
name a few) takes up almost three-
quarters of a column of the English
Who’s Who. He’s put hydroelectric and
power-traction installations in most coun-
tries of the world and electrified War-
saw’s railways. A member of the Coun-
cil of the Society of British Aircraft Con-
struction, he designed the Canberra jet-
bomber.
“Lawnstob”: A Hobart furniture-re-
mover, Broughton Cornish, must be the
first Australian inter-island carrier who
has gone air-conscious, in a big way. For
years he has been lifting furniture and
effects from the Apple Island to the main-
land and vice-versa, personally meeting
all consignments. His tally to date is
close on 50 removals worth £25,000. He
recently arranged for two houseowners to
exchange dwellings ; each man and his
family were sitting down to tea in their
new environment at the old dining-table
within 36 hours.
“Macnell”; The Breconshire was an
unusual ship—a war-time merchantman,
she wore the Navy’s White Ensign; she
was tanker forrard and ammunition-ship
aft; when there was a convoy to Malta
she went with it: when there was no
convoy she sailed alone ; and her name
was as well-known to Australians of the
Scrap-Iron Flotilla as the names of their
own immortal ships. In 1943 a German
bomber crippled her off Malta. Famed
Penelope (C. S. Forester’s “The Ship”)
went to her assistance, but wave after
wave of aircraft struck, and Breconshire
went down in 10 fathoms in Marsa Xlok,
a Maltese bay. Last year Captain O. T.
Harrison, chief salvage officer for the
Admiralty’s boom defence department,
took her in hand. What he and his
divers did is regarded as a saga of salvage.
First, he calculated the weight of every
plate in her ripped hull, and the amount
of air necessary to float her, bottom-up.
In pitch blackness (oil trapped in the ship
rendered normal lighting methods useless)
his divers set to. Often the intense heat
of their oxy-acetylene torches caused
blow-back explosions—and she still
carried tons of ammo. Often they dived
naked, with respirators attached to tubes,
and surfaced covered in black oil. Forty
air connections were fitted under water,
some through ordinary household taps.
Last month, with the plates which had
been bombed from her rolled flat and re-
fitted, three salvage-ships coupled up and
breathed mightily into her. Harrison had
arranged that she should rise by the bows,
turn on her back and surface gently dead
between the salvage ships. She did. It
had been estimated that the job would
take about four ye’ars—Harrison had her
floating on her back with a tow-line for
Genoa attached in just under 18 months.
As cartoonist for the British magazine
“Aeroplane,” Christopher Wren (touched
down in Australia last week on a five-
weeks’ flip round the world) has a pretty
wide following—in War II his work was
known to every sailor, soldier and airman
who had any respect for Messerschmitts,
Junkers, Zeros and such insects. The
official British “Journal of Aircraft
Recognition,” circulated throughout the
Services, carried Wren’s caricatures of
friendly and enemy aircraft, with their
distinctive features cleverly exaggerated
to aid quick recognition. They were
good enough to rate capture and dissemi-
nation among their own troops by both
Germans and Japs.
Appointed Judge in Divorce last
week, H. G. Edwards, a N. S. Wales
Supreme Court Judge since 1940. He was
admitted to the Bar in 1911.
S. V. Toose, made a N. S. Wales
Supreme Court Judge last week, has been
an acting-judge in Divorce for the past
two years. As a barrister he specialised
in cases in this congested jurisdiction.
L. G. Mortensen has seen a lot of
things and places in a comparatively
young life, but the one thing he’ll never
see again is 6ft., having gone considerably
past that altitude some years ago and
grown in solid, muscular proportion.
Some other views he has taken in include
the light of day at Rockhampton (Q.),
Queensland technical colleges, the
engineering business of the Hunter
District Water Board, the first push in
the Western Desert, Syria, the Owen
Stanleys, Wewak, and thereabouts control
of a platoon of 48 {forty-eight)
bulldozers, which is a lot of bulldozers
in anyone’s language—they came into his
charge when he was Major Mortensen,
2 i/c, h.q. R.A.E., 6th Division. Lately
he has been taking in the landscape
through a spray of concrete as manager
of the Cement Gun Co., an enterprise
established here 18 months ago to lay
concrete by a comparatively new method
developed in England and the U.S. Sand,
cement and metal (up to fin.) are fed into
a “mixer” and literally sprayed out
through a nozzle by compressed air,
water being added just before the mixture
leaves the nozzle. On the right jobs—
it’s been used successfully on an impres-
sive list of them, including irrigation-
CEMENT-GUNNER.
channels, pipe-linings, tanks, dams, etc. —
it’s cheaper, quicker and, thickness for
thickness, slightly stronger than the old
methods. Another item along the same
lines which the company has under way
is “Guntex” —the rendering of brick
buildings by spraying on the mortar,
colored or otherwise. Both processes
having proved themselves, there seems to
be a healthy future for them, and
Mortensen, who backs up his appear-
ance of size and strength with the impres-
sion of careful thinking, looks to have
it thoroughly taped.
Herewith, by Lambart, H. M. Wheller,
one of Brisbane’s best-known clerics. A
first-class speaker, he is superintendent
of the Albert-street Methodist church
(mother-church of Queensland Method-
ism) and the Central Methodist Mission;
president, as well, of the Queensland
Regional H.Q. of the World Council of
Churches. Dear to his heart is Garden
Settlement, a finely-appointed home for
the aged at Chermside, which breathes
the spirit of practical Christianity. Hitler’s
war took his only son, John, killed on
METHODIST CHIEF.
operational service in the Air Force. As
determined as he looks in his work for
the underdog, the minister is a very-much-
on-deck 68 —his work is his hobby.
8.8. C. conductor Charles Groves, now
on his way back to Manchester, said fare-
well to Australian audiences in Brisbane.
His few months in this country were
sufficient to demonstrate a facility in all
schools of music, from Bach to William
Walton. His ability to establish friendly
relations with our orchestras and his gifts
as raconteur made his visit a charming
and refreshing one. His programmes
tended towards the colorful, yet there
was always a solid framework of classics
to give backbone to a concert. Groves
has shown himself capable of obtaining
the utmost warmth from our orchestras,
a quality which makes him a fine inter-
preter not only of the all-embracing
humanity of Beethoven and Schubert, but
also of moderns like Vaughan-Williams,
who, possibly through the powerful folk-
song element in their work, demand a
depth and breadth of vision unfortunately
rare in conductors.
From the cloistered intensity of study
and rigid discipline of Flinders Naval
College to the tolerance and broad ex-
perience of sea-time went recently a
batch of young passed-out R.A.N. mid-
shipmen—among them being three sons
of senior officers killed afloat in the late
war. M. B. Rayment’s father, Com-
mander John Rayment, D.S.C., was
squadron navigating-officer in flagship
Australia during her heavyweight edgings
in and out of battle-beaches up north —
he died of wounds taken in the Leyte
savagery. . The father of D. J. Martin,
Commander William Martin, was a
survey specialist appointed executive
officer of cruiser Perth in 1942. He went
down with her under the concentrated
fire of a circle of Jap cruisers and
destroyers in the Java Sea. Father of
the third lad, J. C. Waller, was one of the
most fighting-wise and best-liked captains
in the R.A.N. —the famed “Hard-
over Hec” Waller, veteran destroyer-man
who, unleashed by Cunningham that
fiery night off Matapan, emptied
destroyer Stuart’s torpedo-tubes into an
Italian cruiser five times her size, raked
an Italian destroyer from bridge to stern
with gunfire as she swept past, and belted
another cruiser into submission before,
“feeling somewhat alone,” he rejoined the
satiated Battle Fleet. As well, he handled
Perth’s fighting finish.
Here to run an eye over our wool
industry, Harry J. Devereaux and G-
Norman Winder, two American wool-
growers. Hailing from Rapid City, South
Dakota, Devereaux succeeded Douglas
T. Boyd, present chairman of the Aus-
tralian Wool Board, as chairman of the
board of directors of the New York
Wool Bureau in June this year. Presi-
dent of the American Wool Council and
vice-president of the Rapid City National
Bank, he and his family operate large
sheep ranches in South Dakota and
Montana. Winder, of Craig (Colorado),
is one of the three honorary presidents
of the National Woolgrowers’ Associa-
tion of America. Director of the
American Wool Council, he also played
a sizeable part in founding the Lamb
Industry Committee, organised to urge
lamb onto human palates. His family
own one of the largest mutton-producing
ranches in the Craig-Hayden district of
Colorado. Quizzed as to their opinion
of our Merino embargo, they say that’s
our business, but are confident fine wools
can be successfully grown elsewhere in
the universe, citing Texas as an example.
Landed in Australia, John Godley,
third Baron Kilbracken, intellectual-look-
ing but eminently practical. An Eton
and Oxford man, he was with the Royal
Navy’s air-arm in War 11, winning D.S.C.
and two and a half stripes. The new peer
(his father recently died) is heading for
Christchurch (M.L.) to represent his
family at the city’s centennial celebra-
tions in December —his great-grand-
father, John Robert Godley, founded
that city in 1850. Godley left England
last month to do the trip mostly per
specially-converted Morris Oxford, and
when he shipped it in Calcutta for Fre-
mantle had driven 14,250 miles through
12 countries, his only bother a spot of
risk through a threatened civil war in
Afghanistan, With one book already be-
tween covers, Tell Me the Next One, he
hopes to get another from his current
odyssey.
Born China, educated England, gained
tutorial experience Maoriland, B. J.
Gamier, M.A., has been holding down
the job of senior lecturer in geography
at Otago University (M.L.). He goes
to the University College at Ibadan,
Nigeria, to fill the chair of geography
there.
Into the Silence;
At Yarrawonga (Vic.), at 88, John Charles
Lowe, believed to be the last survivor of those
imprisoned in the Glenrowan hotel when the
Kelly gang made its last stand.
In Perth, at 78, John Bearne Hawkins, one
of Westralia’s biggest building contractors.
Many of the larger buildings of Perth and
Lremantle bear his mark, including the spacious
Metropolitan Market Trust, of which he was
chairman till his resignation three years ago.
Wide public interests took in membership of
the Royal Perth Hospital board (chairman 15
years) and membership of the Town Planning
and Westralian Transport Boards.
At 58, in Sydney, Frank Foiled, Old Digger
who took to flying with No. 2 Squadron,
A.F.C., while overseas in War I and stayed
with aviation on his return. With “Bunny”
Hammond he formed Adastra Airways (after
nine years as superintendent of aircraft for the
Civil Aviation Department) and concentrated
on aerial-survey work. In this field he had
few equals, carrying out Government contracts
in almost every State. At the end he was
surveying in the far-west of N.S.W. A very
likeable chap, widely known among flying men,
he had been manager of the Royal Aero Club
of N.S.W. for a year.
In Brisbane, at 70, Edward Joseph Hanson,
who had already had seven years’ experience as
Chairman of Committee in the Q. Assembly
and 15 as a member when he became Speaker
in 1939. In that post till 1944, when he
retired, he was given to modest reticence
concerning one stage of his early career —
mounted infantryman in the Boer War, men-
tioned with distinction in dispatches and owner
of the Qtieen Victoria Medal, with five clasps.
At 56, in Melbourne, Major-General T. R.
Williams, C.M.G., D. 5.0., Belgian C. de G.,
the first Master-General of Ordnance Australia
has had. His job was to supply the country’s
War II troops fighting round the world in every
sort of climate. Born at Bundaberg (Q.), built
like a rock, he took a diploma of engineering
from Ballarat School of Mines with him to Mt.
Morgan, joined the Royal Australian Engineers
in Sydney, and served at Gallipoli and in
France, where he was assistant-director of Army
Signals. In 1932 he built the forts at Darwin.


TROUBLE-FREE’’ TRANSPORT
A
f
!U> f °
dfg
Pi
Bradford 8 h.p., 10
cwt utility as sup-
plied to Mr, Hart,
Queen's Park,
Western Aust.
HART’S
RADIO SERVICE
of Queen’s Park, W.A., is
more them pleased with their
Bradford Utility . . .
"After 6 months’ trouble-free running, the speedo has just
turned the 5,000 mile mark. We have averaged 44.4 miles per
gallon and only 2 pints of oil were needed for topping up.
This is certainly the utility for economical running.’'’
Call on your local representative and hear more
about the amazing performance of Bradford vehicles.
Ail are powered with the sturdy, horizontally-
opposed engine designed by Jowett, the exclusive
engineering principle which makes it possible to offer
you a \ tonner with an economical 8 h.p. engine.
Bradford
VANS • STATION WAGGONS . TRUCKS
Mad* ia Bradford, England, by JOWETT CARS LTD.
COMMONWEALTH DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. and A.C.T.: Bradford Vehicles Pty. Ltd., 134 New South Head Road,
Edgecliff. FM 2045.
Victoria: Liberty Motors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 149-165 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: Redman Motors, 46-54 Edward Street, Brisbane.
South Aust.: British Engineering Appliances Ltd., 43’0 King William St., Adelaide.
Western Aust.: Western Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., 722 Wellington Street, Perth.
Tasmania: Donald Gorringe Pty. Ltd., 72 Argyle Street, Hobart.
irouds
Nothing like this
since pre-war
M
£9'l7'6
Proud's
special purchase makes this possible,
and they can never be repeated at this price. Containing
6 each Coffee, Tea, Dessert and Soup Spoons: 6 each
Table and Dessert Forks and 2 only Table Spoons
all in Sheffield E.P.N.S.; 6 each Table and
Dessert Knives in Sheffield Stainless Steel. In polished
Walnut-finished Canteen, beautifully lined. £9/17/6.*
Freight, add 5/6. Make a point of
seeing Proud's expanded Cutlery Department, on the
First Floor. The large selection of pattern-handled Cutlery.
Deposit-purchase now.
PROUD'S CORNER, KING AND PITT STREETS. SVDNEV
AND perhaps it was better
so. God knows what pitiful
asses they might have made of
themselves if they had gone
straight home. Desmond re-
membered the hospital ship at
Barcelona. When they arrived
on the deck, blinking a little at
the order and cleanliness, glanc-
ing back at the white wings of
the city against the blue, sun-
dotted sea ; at the disreputable
little Italian ship, and the crowd
below them —brisk English
medical orderlies swooped upon
them, took them aside and tore
their ragged uniforms off them,
giving them clean blue-and-white
hospital suits.
In the clean white ward Des-
mond had gone to, the first thing
that struck his eye was a big
Union Jack tacked on the wall.
The second was an English nurse,
a girl with a thin pale face, a
man’s wristlet watch, a captain’s
three pips on her epaulettes, and
a manner weary but efficient.
“Hullo,” she said, smiling
slightly. “Welcome, and all
that. There’s something to read
there.” She pointed to a pile
of “Punches,” “Sketches” and
the like on the small table by
Desmond’s bunk. Desmond sat
down and turned some glossy
pages. Society weddings. Cap-
tain the Honorable Michael So-
and-so, of the Coldstream
Guards, and his bride. Some
photographs of El Alamein. “I’ll
turn the wireless on,” said the
nurse, and did so. “Let me see”
—glancing at the big watch —
“the 8.8. C. news will be on in a
few seconds.”
The 8.8. C. voice boomed on
and on while the nurse took
temperatures, but Desmond
could make nothing of it.
Strange names of battles, impres-
sive but meaningless tonnages of
ships sunk. He pricked up his
ears when he heard “Australia,”
but it was about some politician
and he lost interest. He won-
dered what the orderlies had
done with the uniforms. Would
they burn them, he wondered, or
fumigate them, or chuck them
over the side?
Suddenly he realised he was
hungry. They had eaten no-
thing that morning.
In Greece, in Yugoslavia, in
Poland, Austria and Germany,
whenever Desmond had tor-
mented himself with fantasies of
civilised food it had always taken
one form: steak and onions
Thick, juicy, toothsome steak
and a rich brown garland of
onions.
“I suppose you’re hungry,” the
nurse said, as though she was
being prodded by fate. She
looked at her watch. “It should
be ready soon —you go down
those stairs,” she said, pointing.
Desmond couldn’t help him-
self. “Er —what is it?”
“The meal? Let me see —
what’s today? Tuesday. It’s
steak and onions today.”
Just then the mess gong
sounded.
And, after all that, Desmond
couldn’t eat his steak-and-
onions. The smell was over-
poweringly delicious, but after
one small mouthful he had had
enough. But then he had filled
himself up on white bread, eat-
ing it greedily, like cake. It was
only when he could eat no more
that he noticed the butter on
the table.
O OMETHING like that had
happened at Heluon. Or
was it Maadi? The familiar
Egyptian place-names got mixed
up in his mind. Heluon, Alex-
andria, Heliopolis, Kasr-el-Nil.
No, it was Heluon. It was that
other place outside Alexandria
where he and Stan had been
almost shot by a coal-black
Sudanese guard, returning full in
the strong African moonlight,
slipping and foundering in the
sand. They couldn’t remember
the password, and the black giant
nearly shot them.
But it was Heluon, Heluon-les-
Bains, the suburb of Cairo,
where they had their first test.
Stan hadn’t been with him then
—it had been George Palmer
who had come with him down
the street, glancing, half-
humorously, over their shoul-
ders. To see if they were really
free to walk down the street like
that, and go where they liked.
Half-expecting to see a figure
with a rifle and bayonet, after
all, following them.
They landed at Heluon at
dead of night, off the train from
Alex. They looked out the win-
dows of the train and saw the
ambulances drawn up, waiting
for them. It was a New Zea-
land hospital they were going to,
a dark figure by the rails told
them —a Kiwi medical orderly
who had wandered over for a
yarn, in the interval of waiting.
This was an Enzed town, just
about, now, he said. “How y’
feelin’. Dig?” he shouted
amiably. “Good-oh, now,”
someone shouted back. And
someone else said they were glad
they were going to a Kiwi hos-
pital. A tribute that seemed to
please the orderly, who pushed
his cap back and said: “You’ll
be right when y’ get a bit of
mungeree into you.”
They were bedded down in a
marquee, an annexe of the N.Z.
hospital, by a host of nurses.
The day-shift had volunteered to
stand by. And next morning
George and Desmond had
strolled through the tent-flap
and had been confronted with a
tall barbed-wire fence, a gate-
way and a New Zealand sentry
with a rifle and fixed bayonet.
“Hell,” said George. “I
thought we’d finished with that.
Hey, Dig”—to the sentry —“are
you there to keep us in?”
The tall New Zealander
grinned. “No. To keep the
Wogs out.”
“Can we go out?” Desmond
said.
The New Zealander began to
roll a cigarette. “Suit yourself,
Dig. You the blokes from Ger-
many?”
They nodded.
“What was she like?”
“Not too bad.”
The New Zealander nodded.
“Go right ahead, Dig. The
town’s yours.”
“We’ll just go down the end
of the street,” George said. “To
that Greek church. A man’d
feel a bit of a galah if he had a
drink now, and got crook.”
“I don’t think we could take
much drink now,” Desmond
said,
“Here’s one bloke who’s got
more sense than to try,” said
George. “That’s one promise 1
made myself—to lay off the
grog.”
They went further than the
end of the street; they went
down the town, pausing to re-
mark on the familiar sights, the
cross-legged smokers of hubble-
bubble pipes, the dark-clad
women, the dirty children. The
unfamiliar sights, too. Black
troops from South Africa buying
cooked food from the native
stalls.
“I wouldn’t touch that tucker
with a forty-foot pole,” George
said.
“Poor devils,” Desmond said.
“I don’t suppose they get paid
much.”
George gazed at them with a
prejudiced eye. “They’re only
niggers,” he said,
“They’re human,” said Des-
mond.
“They’re niggers,” said George.
“Anyway,” he added, “I expect
they’re used to it.”
“I expect so,” said Desmond,
and sighed. His humanitarian
principles were always being
offended in the Middle East.
Half-an-hour later they were
having a drink in an Armenian
cafe. “Just one,” said George.
“To see if the stuff still tastes
the same.”
“Just one,” Desmond agreed.
After the fourth drink George
laughed gleefully. “Fancy a
man saying he’d give this stuff
away,” he said.
There was a general laugh.
“Might as well be dead,” old
Mac declared. Half-a-dozen of
the boys, by a coincidence, had
found the same cafe.
That night Mac feebly
assaulted a native taxi-driver,
and finally lay down in the
middle of the road behind the
hospital-block and refused to
move. A sympathetic New Zea-
land sergeant posted a guard
over him for the night. “Other-
wise,” he said, “he might get his
throat cut.”
When he got into bed Des-
mond was afflicted by a ghastly
sickness. The world was black,
and lurching, and weighing
down on his suffering head. In
this nightmare blackness there
were flashes of light. A beauti-
ful lady in a red cloak leaning
over him with a lantern, begging
him to get up and come back
to bed, and George’s voice
coming from the upper darkness,
saying, “Leave him to me. Sister,
I’ll fix him.” Firm hands —
George’s—under his armpits,
dragging him to his feet. But
he clung desperately to the
warm earth. Not that he didn’t
want to please the Sister —he
did. He had never seen anyone
so beautiful, so amiable, and at
the same time so touchingly
young. In the depths of his
humiliation and distress he loved
and admired her, and was deeply
suspicious of George. But he
didn’t want to be sick in her
nice clean ward.
The vision was repeated a
dozen times. Each time Des-
mond awoke from deep black-
ness to find himself clinging to
the soil, the girl with a hurricane-
lamp bending over him, and
George manhandling him. “If I
swore —I’m sorry, Sister. I really
am sorry. Sister,” Desmond said
each time, and the Sister said
“Oh, I don’t care about that.
It’s just you I’m worried about
—lying out here. Now come on
in, that’s a good boy.”
Desmond apologised in the
morning, when he woke with a
painful head and a raging thirst
to see the little Sister bustling
around in her red cloak, the
hurricane - lantern extinguished
and the grey light creeping into
the big tent. She smiled delight-
fully, showing a perfect row of
even white teeth, and assured
him that he had been a perfect
gentleman. But when she had
gone off duty George, who was
lying on the next bed, sourly
listening, assured him that his
language had been shocking.
“Fair dinkum, Dig. Something
’orrible.” And Desmond felt a
proper humility.
BUT so unfavorable a start
was the genesis of a tender,
if one-sided, romance. It oc-
curred to Desmond that he
could profit by the weakness of
his fellows, as George had
profited by his. He had nothing
to drink the next night, and sat
back, smugly confident that
there would be more drunks to
deal with. He was not disap-
pointed.
George hung around, too,
looking disgruntled. And there
was a medical-orderly corporal
Desmond didn’t much like the
look of, who gave himself pos-
sessive airs. There was also, of
course, the New Zealand soldier
with rifle and bayonet who
accompanied the Sister every
time she went from one tent to
another in the darkness, but he
didn’t count. Nor was he strictly
necessary, with an escort of
three scowling swains, but he
had his job to do, and it was
certainly a pleasant one.
The job itself puzzled George
and Desmond, but the infantry-
man explained it. “Been a
couple of nurses attacked,” he
said.
“Wogs?” said George.
“H-m-m. Wouldn’t put it
past them. But it was niggers,
matter-of-fact. There’s a bunch
of them camped down by the


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Seriousfinancial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6i YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
relief km
CHOKING ASTHMA
Dr. Hair’s English Asthma
and Bronchitis medicine has
helped thousands of sufferers
to escape the agonies of
Asthma, Bronchitis, Catarrh
and Hay Fever. You, too, can
be free of those frequent
bouts of wheezing, coughing
and fighting for breath. Get
this famous English treat-
ment from your chemist or
write direct to George Ripley
& Co. Pty. Ltd., 228 Pitt
Street, Sydney. ha. 13
u.
.
'jMm
MSlMM
CUARD^
Ou&h/
PROTECTA
stml-SUI RigiittAlng
TILL
dfg
Suitable for every type of business It record*
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for fuli details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
tHttnhuting Agents —
SYDNEY
Melbourne .
ADELAIDE
rE&TB «
W- C Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
, Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
• Vardon & Suns Ltd.
t Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
WHERE
CdCalatWA MOVE MERCHANDISE
MOVES
This Otis escalator installation at Anthony
Hordern & Sons Ltd., Sydney, invites cus-
tomers to see and buy goods on other floors.
Offering convenient, constant and immediate
transport, escalators step up traffic volume
. . . distribute a greater flow of customers
quickly and easily to all merchandising areas
. . . and permit maximum sales to be
realised. Otis will be glad to survey your
store and report on the facts discovered.
p&'-'lyi - '<
: &
■
; ■ $
mm
m
™ m
m hi
Wm
mm
mMm
■ ■ :
■:
~,
Sm
wm
m
mm
■
4 V
■
■
:• :
|*»WMniwik
i
m m
u
mKm
SaiMH
:
' 4
8 s
BiiiM
, . : , '. "
■ ' :
i*’ "
'
i\
1111
iisi m
mm
■ ■■
£' ;v;.?
: i -- v
k;:?
mm
two of Teh
Post-War Design Otis Escalators Installed at
SYDNEY:
MELBOURNE:
ADELAIDE:
BRISBANE:
PERTH:
Anthony Hordern
& Sons Ltd
David Jones Ltd
Mark Foy’s Ltd
Myer Emporium Ltd. .
Manton & Sons Ltd. . .
Myer Emporium
(S.A.) Ltd
McWhirters Ltd. .. ~ .
Boons Ltd
Antliony liui'clei'ii & Sons Ltd., Sydney
iww
wi
m
n
wj
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA
FRANCE
aerodrome. Another case, too,
in Cairo. American niggers.”
“They oughter shoot the lot of
’em,” George said, glancing at
the dim red cloak and dancing
lantern in the darkness ahead.
“I suppos'e,” said Desmond
dryly, “that sort of thing isn’t
unknown among white men.”
“You’re right there, mate.
She’s a wild town now, believe
me. All sorts. Yanks, Poles,
Free French, Springboks. The
Wogs are getting cheeky, too.
Pity, in a way, Rommel didn’t
take Alex. He’d have towelled
’em up.”
“One thing about the Jerry,”
said George with loud authority,
“he ain’t soft. Now if a thing
like that happened—do you
know what he’d do? A couple
of truckloads of Jerry infantry
would drive up and —bang —
bang—there’d be a lot of dead
Wogs. Or dead niggers, as the
case might be.”
“Sounds a bit drastic,” said
Desmond.
“It’s the only way,” said
George.
A pause, while Desmond col-
lected his thoughts. He felt an
emotional tendency to agree
with George, and despised it.
Could it have been Germany
that had done this, he wondered
—corrupted his humanitarian
ideals? Made him believe in
naked force. He examined the
possibility, and rejected it.
“You forget,” Desmond said
slowly, a bit pedantically.
“Rape isn’t the monopoly of the
colored races.”
“How’d you like your daughter
to be raped by a dirty buck-
nigger?” George demanded in-
dignantly.
Desmond smiled at this emo-
tional argument. “I wouldn’t
be any too pleased if she was
raped by a dirty white man. Any-
way, I haven’t got a daughter.”
“But if you had,” George per-
sisted. “Would you let her marry
a nigger?”
“Oh, hell,” Desmond was
becoming annoyed, dropping his
schoolteacher’s attitude. “That’s
a stupid argument. They all
trot it out. Who says the
nigger will want to marry a
white woman, anyway?”
A torch beam was turned on
them, and the little Sister’s voice
came, rippling with laughter.
“What are you boys arguing
about?”
“Rape,” said Desmond.
“That’s a nice subject of con-
versation,” she said mockingly.
The corporal snapped the torch
off as they drew level, “No
need for you fellows to hang
around,” he said pointedly.
“Oh, we don’t mind,” said
Desmond.
“We might be able to give
you a hand, Corp,” George said
cheekily. “In case some of the
blokes get a bit uncouth, like.”
They stared at each other, the
big blond orderly and little
cocky George. The Sister looked
from one to the other. “I think
we’ll all have a cup of tea,” she
said demurely.
“Color prejudice,” said Des-
mond unctuously, “is a terrible
thing. It is usually associated
with economic exploitation.”
“Aw, come off it, Dig.,”
George snarled.
“Talking aboht that,” the in-
fantryman said, bobbing his head
under the tent-flap. “You know
—what we were talking about.
Nurse found a bloke under her
bed last week. Big fat nurse she
was —she belted hell out of him
and handed him over to the
M.Ps. He was a New Zea-
lander, too,” he added ruefully.
“Had much trouble lately?”
Desmond asked.
“No.” The infantryman
juggled a cup of tea. “They saw
a nigger hanging round, and shot
him. No trouble now.”
George gave up the struggle
and went drinking again the next
night, but Desmond kept reso-
lutely sober. He was rewarded,
too, by the absence of the
churlish corporal. With only the
Sister, the infantryman and
irregular invasions of drunken
patients, it was a pleasant night.
Desmond had been too long
away from women, and the
Sister was too exquisitely dainty
a specimen, for him to dare to
make any but the most respect-
ful advances —a sort of intel-
lectual courtship.
But he basked, as it were, in
her femininity, and gravely set
out to win her approval. She
came from Invercargill and her
Christian-name was Betty. He
was so far successful that she
consented to go into Cairo with
him for a day’s shopping.
There was a routine to be fol-
lowed in these cases, he dis-
covered. A nurse had to be
signed for, as an assurance
against being left escortless in
Cairo.
Well, reflected Desmond, turn-
ing the whole melancholy busi-
ness over in his mind, the black
wench spoilt that. Not even his
girl, which made it more bitter,
but the temporary property of
that old sinner Mac. But there
she was, hanging on his arm like
a devoted leech, when they came
face to face with the little Sister.
The slightest tilt of a fair chain,
and she turned to talk ani-
matedly to the Sister with her.
And that was that.
AND that, in a way, had
thrown him into the alcoholic
company of Stan and, via
Shepheards and Groppys and a
dozen drinking places, into the
Africa Bar.
“Well, here it is,” said Stan,
raising his glass. “Good luck,
fellows.”
Jimmy wiped his wet forehead
with a limp white hand. “How
do you feel, Jimmy?” Desmond
said.
“Poor,” said Jimmy. “But the
worst’s over, I think.” He
screwed his eyes up while he
drank the strong gin. “Ah! ”
“Home for Christmas, eh?”
said Desmond. “That’s what
they reckon, anyway. Think
we’ll make it?”
“We might. You live in the
bush, don’t you, Stan? What
part?”
“West,” rumbled Stan. “Near
Deniliquin. Know that part at
all?”
“Slightly. I had friends out
there. But I’m a Sydney boy
myself. Although”—he laughed
quietly—“l’ve been in a good
few places since.”
Desmond looked at him
thoughtfully. A queer fish,
Jimmy. His story had been
drawn out bit by bit in the past
few days. Son of a Sydney
clergyman, he had graduated as
a B.A. from Sydney University
and had taken his M.A. in Euro-
pean History at London Uni-
versity. Some time in between
he had learnt to fly, and for a
time before joining the R.A.F.
had fought as a mercenary pilot
for the Chinese Government. A
disappointing business, he said;
plenty of money and nothing to
spend it on, most of the time. He
shared Desmond’s interest in
languages, and spoke Russian
well. Desmond liked him, now
he knew him better. There was
something about his disdain for
commerce, the professions and
all the ordinary humdrum
methods of earning a living that
appealed to Desmond’s instinct
for the picturesque, and his sense
of humor. “Technicians,”
Jimmy airily said, dismissing
doctors, engineers and the like:
and “hucksters” included all
forms of trade. He was like an
insolent small sparrow in his
disdain for the ponderous ways
of the Army ; yet this fighter-
pilot swagger carried him out
of all sorts of awkward situa-
tions.
After he promoted himself to
the rank of squadron-leader,
Jimmy became great friends with
the grim old Indian Army
Colonel who was C.O. of the
hospital ship. But he was not
generally popular. Jimmy made
no secret of his self-promotion
to Desmond and Stan. “It was
really ridiculously easy,” he
said. “They asked us our rank,
name and number when we went
on board. We were wearing all
sort of odds and ends of uni-
form. I wonder you chaps
didn’t wake up to it.”
“But, damn it, Jimmy,” Des-
mond spluttered, between con-
cern and laughter, “you must
know they’ll catch up with you
some day?”
Jimmy shrugged. “What of
it? I’ve been paid a squadron-
leader’s screw all tins time.
Probably be paid the same till I
get to Australia. I travel in
comfort. It’s worth it. Besides,
I can never pay them back. I
haven’t got it.” His true rank
was warrant-officer. Anyway, as
he said, he had some justifica-
tion. Most of his contemporaries,
men who had flown with him
in the Battle of Britain, were of
exalted rank or dead. A wild
party, carried to scandalous ex-
tremes, and a piece of gross rude-
ness to a superior officer had
ruined his chances of promotion.
Desmond wondered what
would happen to Jimmy. He
seemed to think that he would fly
again, but Desmond doubted it.
Machine-gun bullets had cut fan-
tastic patterns in his frail body,
and his eyesight was failing.
“I wish that Wog would hurry
up with the bacon and eggs,” said
Jimmy. “I’m hungry now.”
“Hullo,” said Stan. “See those
blokes just come in? That tall
snowy one looks familiar.”
Desmond looked across the
dreary stretch of deserted, dusty
floor to the bar, with its rows and
rows of colored bottles and its
long mirrors. A bunch of New
Zealanders had just come in and
were ordering drinks. “Yes,” he
said. “That tall bloke was play-
ing for the Kiwi team this after-
noon. And —hullo —see that
nuggety Maori? No, not that
one, the one with his elbow on
the bar. Yes, that’s him, with
his back to us. He was play-
ing front row. Gripes, he’s a
good player. A real bullocking
forward. In everything.”
Stan screwed up his penetrat-
ing eyes. “Ye-es. That’s him,
all right. Only I thought he was
bigger.”
“He’s big all right. It’s just
that he’s so broad. And that
fair chap he’s standing along-
side is extra tali.”
“He the bloke who played
lock?” -
Desmond nodded. “Yes. He
was extra-good in the lineouts,
but a bit weak on cover defence,
I thought. That is, for such a
big game. Practically inter-
national. But the Maori was a
beaut.”
They stared at the New Zea-
landers appreciatively. They had
helped to give them an after-
noon’s entertainment.
Jimmy murmured something
with drooping head. Desmond
had to bend his own fair head
to catch it. It was “muddied
oafs.”
THE Africa Bar was almost
deserted. Over in a far
corner an unemployed courtesan
sat, listlessly toying with the half-
empty glass that had stood be-
fore her for the past hour, her
big black eyes staring hopelessly
out of heavily-powdered face.
She had fine, rounded brown
arms, but she looked pathetic and
ridiculous in her Western finery.
A glint of expectancy had come
into her eyes when the New
Zealanders first came in, but
they didn’t spare her a glance.
They were cheerful and noisy at
the bar, keeping the barman’s
red fez bobbing, a little oasis of
lusty life in a desert of empty
tables and chairs and drooping,
listless ferns. A fellaheen
emerged from the dim back
quarters and began sweeping up
great clouds of dust.
“A drab place,” commented
Jimmy. “1 prefer Shepheards.”
They laughed. “Trouble is,”
Desmond said, “we’re all two-
bob snobs. I am, anyway.” But
it went deeper than that, he
thought. After Germany they
all had a craving to wallow in
deep luxury. It was, anyway,
better than just wallowing.
“At last,” rumbled Stan.
(Continued on next page.)


FORDSON MAJOR
m
FARMS AUSTRALIA
every type of job, in every type of soil
'S.
i\'
in
H
Si
f
Read these reasons why Fordson Major
is Sales Leader among tractors
Because of their complete suitability and versatility in every kind of Australian
farming there are now over 22,000 Fordson Majors working throughout
the Commonwealth. Every day the preference for Fordson is growing
because only Fordson provides all these features :
I. Choice of Diesel or Kerosene power. 2* Wheeled or half track units.
3* Choice of gear ratios. “Special” ratios for work where soil conditions
and size of implements demand extra pounds pull at the drawbar. “Standard”
ratios for conditions where extra miles per hour and normal drawbar pull
are desirable.
4. Range of wheel and tyre equipment. 5* Lowest cost per horsepower.
6* Specialised Fordson Service available in districts all over the Common-
wealth.
Ratings by official Nebraska-type Tests
Diesel power : Rated 28 drawbar horse-
power—which is better than a 12 horse team.
In second gear at 1500 r.p.m. rated load
travelled at 3.5 m.p.h. when equipped with
special ratio gears and at 4.6 m.p.h. with
standard ratio gears. In both cases fuel
consumption was 1.79 gallons per hour.
Kerosene power: Rated 21.5 drawbar horse-
power — equal to a good 10 horse team.
With special ratio gears, in second gear and
at 1200 r.p.m. rated load handled at 2.88
m.p.h. and, with standard ratio gears, at
3.64 m.p.h. Fuel consumption at rate of
1.96 gallons per hour in both cases.
Advice from your local Fordson Dealer
Your Dealer will be glad to give you all details of the Fordson combination that is best
for your job. He will also arrange on your property, a demonstration under your
particular working conditions.
Wide choice off
models
Both Diesel and
Kerosene models are
available in Agri-
cultural or Row
Crop (each with
either rubber tyres
or steel wheels) and
Roadless (half-
tracked).
Half-Track
Equipment
Available for fitting
to both Diesel and
Kerosene models.
Virtually gives
farmer two tractors
in one and the
change-over is a
simple matter. Half-
tracks cut rolling
resistance to mini-
mum, give more
pounds pull at draw-
bar and lower fuel
consumption and
allow handling of
implements in soil
conditions unfav-
ourable for wheeled
tractors.
FM62-44
Enquire from your State Distributor:
N.S.W.;—Motor Tractors Pty. Ltd., 369-385 Wattle St., Ultimo. VICTORIA:—MaIcoIm Moore Pty. Ltd.,
300 City Rd., South Melbourne. QUEENSLAND;—Buzacott’s (Q’ld.) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:—Power Plant Ltd., 98-100 Currie Street, Adelaide. WEST AUSTRALIA;—Lynas
Motors Pty. Limited, 981-983 Hay Street, Perth.
OR FROM YOUR LOCAL FORDSON DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.) REG. OFFICE: GEELONG. VIC.
“Bacon and eggs. What have
you been doing, George—laying
’em?”
A flash of white teeth ia the
pock-marked face. The waiter
wiped his greasy fingers on his
striped skirt.
“Anyway,” Desmond said. “It
looks good.”
It did. The smell was appetis-
ing and fragrant. It cheered
Desmond, dissipating something
of the vague depression that was
weighing upon him. He glanced
at the cheerful New Zealanders.
They represented something he
had lost. Rude strength and
health. He voiced it, with a
rueful laugh. “Hell. Football.
I couldn’t run six yards now.”
But Stan was demanding more
drinks.
The plate was extremely hot,
so Desmond had a drink first.
The drink released a queer buzz-
ing in his ears so that he was
conscious of the rumble of
Stan’s voice, but didn’t catch
what he was saying. Then he
picked out a word, “Trouble.”
Desmond looked up and saw
the negroes come in, a black face
pushed under the blackout
curtain, then another, then a
whole swarm of woolly heads
under pale khaki forage caps,
quick, beautifully moving
African bodies in the floppy
working dress of the American
Army, and rolling eyes. He was
reminded, irrationally, of some-
thing he had read. The beauty
of black skins under strong sun-
light.
THERE was no sunlight here,
only the dim shaded light of
the Africa Bar, but the phrase
evoked an image of the hospital
ship berthing at Alexandria. He
had been glad enough to leave
Alex, when they had sailed for
Greece. And he had been glad
to get back, since it was a stop-
ping-place for home. But the
phrase had occurred to him then,
looking down from the deck of
the ship at the docks, the red
tabs of British staff officers, the
train at the siding and the swarm
of natives. And with it had
come an acceptance of Africa,
as a part of experience, with its
good and evil.
A fleeting impression, no
more. Lost immediately in the
comments of those who stood
beside him.
“Cripes, Sister-street copped
it.”
Looking at the bomb-damage
in the dock areas, in which was
included , the brothel district. A
whimsical barbarity of war, to
bomb brothels. Although, of
course, they had been bombing
the docks. A kind of swelling
murmur of protest drew Des-
mond’s attention to a scene on
the dock. A small Egyptian, a
youngster of twelve or so, was
stumping along on a wooden leg
begging coins from the ship.
Suddenly an Egyptian police-
man rushed up to him and began
to beat him mercilessly with his
baton.
The protests from the ship
grew louder. “Give him a go! ”
“Gestapo!” “800, y’ black
!”
Desmond wondered if it were
a gesture towards civilisation,
this protest by men who should,
surely, have grown immune to
barbarity.
Possibly the policeman thought
they were cheering him. The
boy had fallen to the ground,
shielding his head, his wooden
leg sticking up grotesquely. The
policeman turned, smiled up at
the ship and waved his baton at
the jeering soldiers, as though to
assure them he was the valiant
defender of their rights. During
this distraction the boy got to
his feet and hobbled away. The
policeman looked round and
chased him.
THE negroes seemed to hesi-
tate when they saw the New
Zealanders. At least, the leaders
did. But those behind kept push-
ing them forward. There must
have been a dozen of them. The
six New Zealanders, after a
casual glance, went on drinking.
“Niggers!” said Jimmy
sharply. “They’ve got no right
here. This place is out of
bounds for niggers.”
Desmond remembered, with a
sharp twist of humor, that Shep-
heards and the Savoy-Conti-
nental and other good hotels in
Cairo were out of bounds to
“other ranks.” “Officers Only”
was the uncompromising notice.
But that hadn’t worried him, or
Stan, or Jimmy, disguised as a
squadron - leader. There was
something comical and ob-
scurely pathetic about the ex-
pressions on the dozen black
faces, so much alike, like mon-
keys or children who feared
punishment.
A short negro stepped for-
ward and said something to the
Maori footballer which Des-
mond couldn’t hear. The Maori
shrugged and half-turned
around, reaching for his glass.
The negro stepped forward, and
his high lazy voice carried dis-
tinctly. “Get out of mah way,
yuh black
The Maori’s thick body
twisted round, his brown face
open-mouthed with surprise. He
hit the negro almost automati-
cally with no great force. In a
moment they were fighting furi-
ously, and the New Zealanders
formed a ring around them. The
other negroes hung back look-
ing blankly undecided.
“What’d I tell you?” Stan
said grimly. “Trouble.”
The three plates of bacon and
eggs stood in front of them
untouched.
“That Maori’ll murder him,”
Desmond said confidentially.
“He’s a tough man if ever I saw
one.”
“They shouldn’t be in here,”
Jimmy said querulously. “It’s
not allowed.”
The Maori was a tough man,
but he was no match for the
stocky negro, who handled him-
self like a professional pug,
ducking and slipping and hook-
ing savagely. The New Zea-
landers could see the way the
fight was going. They cheered
their chapipion lustily enough
at first, but soon their shouts of
encouragement—“ Get stuck into
him, Rikki!” “Good boy!”—
when one of the Maori’s wild
swings connected were half-
hearted. Mere loyal support
without any real faith in victory.
The Maori fought valiantly.
But he was a wild slogger, and
the negro was a specialist.
Sweat and blood dripped down
the Maori’s face, and the negro’s
face was a dull black mask.
Stan was unable to contain
his admiration. “Gripes, the
nigger can fight,” he said. Then,
with no less approval, “And the
Maori’s got guts.”
The other negroes had
drawn closer, and some obscure
excitement seemed to be grip-
ping them. They threw their
hands about and jabbered. And
their faces all looked exactly
alike.
Suddenly there was a flutter,
an excitement of movement,
among all the blacks. They
moved quickly, as it were un-
consciously, and yet in a rhyth-
mical concert. Desmond was
again reminded of children play-
ing a game. From the fluster
of black faces a tall, gangling
negro emerged. Swiftly he
picked up a stool and brought
it down with perfect delibera-
tion on the back of the Maori’s
head.
FROM a distance Desmond
heard Stan’s rumble “Sit
down!” Through a fog he saw
the outstretched hairy bar of
Stan’s great arm. He brushed it
aside. In those swift seconds of
glorious action he had a de-
tached picture of himself
hurtling across the dusty floor.
A satisfying picture. And, in a
razor-keen scrap of sensation, he
was conscious of a faint regret
when the glorious charge cul-
minated in nothing more dra-
matic than hitting a nigger in
the face. The charge was the
thing. That was the true beauty
and grace of action. The blow
itself was an anticlimax.
He had to pull up, slither a
little to aim it. A crude, hook-
ing, savage punch that drew his
breath out in a hiss between his
clenched teeth. “There! . . .”
He had a brief impression of
the negro’s breath, a blast of
gin, the black face shining with
sweat and the eyes rolling in a
comical expression of rage and
astonishment before the face
and the body went down.
Desmond felt a great relief
and pride. He must have got
across that floor very quickly.
o Continued on page 32.)


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
A
warn
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- pep lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that Is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS. It's good
Write: MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Bo* 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
m/
&>vcv-sy
Ana no xiims
ONVZNIO
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RAYMOND JOHN RUSSELL formerly
of Linden Street Sutherland. —TAKE
NOTICE that HOLLY RUSSELL has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3984 of 1950
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 23rd day of January 1951
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from O. B. MORRIS, Solicitor,
17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK GEORGE MITCHELL
late of North Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE
that HAZEL MARJORIE MITCHELL has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 8690 of
1950 upon the grounds of habitual
drunkenness and cruelty and leaving the
Petitioner without means of support during
three years and upwards and is asking for
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 16/1/’5l and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from GEOFFREY
DYSON BONAMY, Solicitor, 56 Hunter
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PATRICIA COOKE late of Darling-
hurst.—TAKE NOTICE that ANDRENE
JEAN BOOKER has filed a Petition No.
788 of 1948 praying for a Divorce from
ALLAN GRAHAM BOOKER on the
ground of his adultery with you You may
apply to the Court to be allowed to de-
fend A copy of the Petition may be
obtained without charge from JOSEPH
H. McDOUQALL & CO., Petitioner’s
Solicitors, of 4 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TILLEY LAMPS
HAVE YOU TRIED THE
“HAPPY” MANTLE?
THESE ENTIRELY NEW AND PATENTED
GENUINE “TILLEY” MANTLES WILL SURPRISE
AND DELIGHT YOU
NO MORE FIDDLING
WHEN FITTING !!
ADEQUATE STOCKS ARE NOW AVAILABLE
AT YOUR LOCAL DEALERS.
IF IN ANY DIFFICULTY, WRITE TO OUR
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:—
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl
ONLY
« HAPPY ”
BEAR
RJEGD.
GENUINE
MANTLES
THIS SEAL!
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD. OF ENGLAND
SUNDRY DHOWS
Art in a Hurry.
Wesley Penberthy’s paintings
at David Jones’s Gallery, Syd-
ney, display a youthful vigor,
some nice bits of color, one or
two good attempts at glazing in
the manner of the Old Masters
and, on the whole, a lack of
taste, discrimination and disci-
pline.
The artist’s glazing technique,
accompanied by slapdash draw-
ing, is inadequate for realistic
subjects, so that the landscapes
are unsatisfying, while the nudes
come perilously close to the
chocolate-box effect, the por-
traits perilously close to the
colored photograph—they are
flat, shallow, shiny and lifeless.
When realism is not attempted,
as in the purely decorative
“Dancer in Wings,” in the sur-
realist “Castle of Dreams” and
the romantic landscape of “Noc-
turne,” Mr. Penberthy gets some
striking and quite attractive re-
sults. But he will have to be-
ware of the temptation to quick
and easy notoriety that tempts
so many young painters into
filling these spacious galleries
with quantities of big, slick
paintings every three months or
so ; and his vitality, instead of
squandering itself in experi-
ment, would probably be better
employed in acquiring the
straightforward oil-technique of
a Lambert,
Artbursts.
The trustees of the Melbourne
National Gallery recently fos-
sicked out 42 pictures, most of
large size and some enormous,
from its collection, and, having
obtained an Order in Council
for the purpose, disposed of
them by auction at the Stanley
Coe Gallery in Bourke-street.
They didn’t get much for them,
probably only a moiety of what
former .trustees paid for them,
and the highest bid was 25
guineas, while some, to the
disappointment of the director,
who said that, though they were
no longer suitable for the
national collection, they would
make a decoration for the walls
of suburban villas, only fetched
a few smackers.
The pictures, however, have
thrilled former experts and
julges, or why would they have
bought them? Was the thrill
they got produced by something
in the pictures—their aesthetic
quality—or did the pictures
merely symbolise something—
the artist’s reputation, his string
of decorations, his subject-
matter or the fact that he was
a boy-pupil of Dante Gabriel
Rossetti, or Queen’s Limner for
Scotland in 1865? Did they like
the pictures for some artistic
quality they had or because they
fulfilled some current fashion?
Those are questions that the
present-day trustees might use-
fully ask themselves. They’re
buying lots of pictures just as
did the trustees of the ’eighties,
who were no doubt just as in-
telligent and cultivated as the
present trustees, and believed as
much as they do that their feel-
ings of pleasure or displeasure
were properties of the pictures
that they looked at. They didn’t
think they were buying junk for
future auctions, but they were.
F.S.
Musica Viva.
The latest offering of this en-
semble in its Sydney series con-
tained pygmies and giants.
The pygmies were represented
by the Gallic team, Debussy and
Milhaud. The Debussy Sonata,
in which the violinist was Robert
Pikler, has all the signs of De-
bussy’s deterioration in his writ-
ing in small forms which marked
his return to this medium in the
latter stages of his life. Here
and there are passages of
ethereal charm and subtlety, but
generally it is, for Debussy,
heavy musical pudding.
The Milhaud Seventh String
1 Quartet is a top-heavy structure
in which excessive development
is built on the most niggardly
thematic foundations. The
vaunted French wit sinks here to
mumbled maunderings.
The giants came from the
other side of the Rhine: Schu-
bert, with his Adagio and
Rondo in F Major for Piano
Quartet and Beethoven with his
monumental “Archduke” Trio.
Schubert’s concertante work was
given soundly, if with no par-
ticularly exhilatory quality, which
at least the Rondo should con-
jure. The splendidly-wrought
Trio, strongly colored, abound-
ing in vitality except for the
Andante, in which there are
pages of wonderfully serene
and noble music, brought out
the best playing of the night.
Ivan Rixon Singers.
In their recital at Sydney
Con. this group of a dozen
singers revealed a nice balance,
admirable weight of tone where
it was called for, as in the
Soldiers’ Chorus from “Faust”
and, in the Pilgrim’s Chorus
from “Tannhauser,” a reasonable
enough command of light and
shade; but the meticulous pre-
cision which their conductor has
made the whole basis of their
choral work was made rather
too much a fetish here.
A Schumann group was given
sympathetic treatment in
arrangements which, attractive
though they were, could scarcely
be expected to compensate for
the inherently individual emo-
tion which the composer incor-
porated into such a song as, for
instance, “Ich Grolle Nicht.”
The choir obviously possesses
several fine individual voices.
Solos from these might be used
in some future recital. The
assisting artists at this recital
were June Gough, who, posses-
sing a most attractive platform
manner, used with excellent
judgment a lovely coloratura of
fine range and flexibility in
several operatic airs; and Geza
Bachmann, a violinist with a
dazzling technique, but whose
choice of material gave him but
little scope to develop reposeful
tones whose worth could be
judged. Marie van Hove accom-
panied with alertness and spirit,
and played “Invitation to the
Waltz” and “Clair de Lune”
with some feeling for the indi-
vidual merits of Weber and
Debussy.
Schumann's "Rhenish."
Schumann’s rarely-performed
“Rhenish” Symphony was John
Farnsworth Hall’s choice to open
a Queensland Symphony
Orchestra presentation entitled
“Symphony and Variations,”
and a good choice it was. This
five-movement work depicts the
peasant life, landscapes and
cathedrals that attracted
Schumann in the Rhine country.
It’s a pity he didn’t make more
of the lovely solemn movement
representing Cologne Cathedral,
or sustain the closely-knit
orchestral texture of the opening
movement, which, by the way,
was performed superbly by the
orchestra. Nevertheless, it is a
fresh, enjoyable work deserving
greater popularity. Of the
Variations, Dohnanyi’s treat-
ment of the old nursery theme
“Baa, Baa, Black Sheep” was
the most charming, with the
playing of Queensland-born
Enith Clarke as the main in-
gredient of the charm. Miss
Clarke brought to the work the
right measure of good humor
and crispness. Other variations,
by Tschaikovsky and Holbrooke,
were of lesser interest, although
the former did not savor of his
customary black treacle.
New Australians'
Concert.
A choir and four soloists com-
bined to give a concert at Sydney
Town Hall by New Australians.
The Ukrainian Choir, under
the conductorship of Professor
Markian Struk, has the attribute,
which seems to be the exclusive
prerogative of Russian choirs,
of being able to fade down from
a crashing vocal wave to the
veriest ripple of sound, yet with
carrying-power maintained and
the note stretched almost to
breaking-point. This they de-
monstrated in numbers confined,
naturally enough, to the music
of their former land. There was
an obvious eagerness about each
member and a tight discipline
which made for attractive sing-
ing.
The soloists were Bianca
Mascola, soprano, who put her
best work into the “Batti Batti”
aria from “Don Giovanni”;
Harold Tichoff, a baritone with
a big range who overdramatised
the “Calf of Gold” from
“Faust,” but sang the “Eri Tu”
from “Un Ballo in Maschera”
with authority ; and Igor Taran,
pianist, with some neatly-
contrived and nimble Chopin.


/
Write with a nib precisely
suited to your hand . . . writs
with a Swan Pen. A Swan is a
pleasure to use, a treasure to
own. At stationers, jewellers and
stores. Nibs to suit every hand.
SWAN
PENS
SWAN
dfg
INKS
-BREWED— not merely mixed
Swan inks in the famous blue-black and 4
brilliant colours are clear, free-flowing and
remarkably permanent . . . the finest inks
for any type of pen.
MABIE TODD (*u*x.J PTY, LTD., SYDNEY
/C
f/t»»A
The Australian
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Knitting, Crochet and
Needlecraft
• • •
Health Talk. Mothercraft
Serial, Short Stories and
Special Articles
On sale everywhere
Price 4d.
m
They've taken
the right road
Although he's a young man, Mr. Smith looks to the future. Instead of
appointing a private executor who might prove incapable of carrying out
his complicated duties, Mr. Smith has made Burns Philp Trust Company
Limited his executor. This means that his estate will be efficiently
managed, and his family spared unnecessary worry.
Consult a senior Burns Philp Trust Officer to-day. If you cannot call, write
for "Hands That Never Leave The Wheel," a booklet explaining how your
family can be given this permanent protection.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, F.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
Executor Trustee Attorney
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel. BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.O.
BPIS-S0
THE SERVICE MAN
Chinese in Korea.
“Ek Dum”: Events in Korea
have begun to assume a new and
ominous complexion. About
October 26 it seemed that the
campaign against the North
Koreans was nearly over. They
had been torn to pieces in the
south, and their forces on their
own soil had been drawn back
almost to the Yalu River, which
forms the boundary between
Korea and Manchuria. In this
area there are numerous enter-
prises including large - scale
hydroelectric plants which serve
areas in Manchuria. And as the
Allied forces came within strik-
ing distance of these the
North Korean resistance which
before had scarcely seemed to
exist stiffened surprisingly.
At this stage it began to be
realised that the reports of
Chinese intervention which had
been coming in for some time
were not groundless. Peking
Radio had kept up a barrage of
threats and warnings that the
Chinese Communist Govern-
ment could not allow “peaceful
neighbors” to be overrun. Large
Communist Chinese forces had
been reported north of the Yalu.
These reports had been coming
in for nearly a fortnight, but on
October 28 were still being
“treated sceptically” by the
United States command and also
by most Press correspondents.
These later were prepared to
admit that a few border Chinese
might have been lured into the
fray as volunteers, this despite
the fact that the South Koreans
reported the presence of Chinese
elements in the enemy forma-
tions which they were encounter-
ing near Chosan close to the
border on October 27.
It was on that day that a
Chinese soldier was captured
near Unsan, and claimed that he
and others had been “sent into
Korea to help the North
Koreans.” He declared that he
and 40,000 Chinese, “at one time
Nationalist soldiers” and not
Communists, had been sent into
Korea in the past fortnight, but
U.S. intelligence failed to sub-
stantiate these statements until
the North Koreans began to turn
the tables three days later.
Chinese Identified
Then the Press correspondents
became “almost unanimous”
that Chinese Communist troops
were involved. The spokesman
of U.S. X Corps h.q. declared
that a Chinese Communist regi-
ment had been positively identi-
fied on the North Korean front,
and General Pak, a Chinese-
speaking Korean general com-
manding the South Korean
corps on the central sector, re-
ported that he was fighting
against Chinese, and that two
prisoners had told him that
there were 60,000 Chinese troops
already in Korea who had
crossed the Yalu on October
21-22.
There was still some doubt in
the minds of U.S. Headquarters,
but the fact remained that since
October 29 the tide had begun
to run against the U.N.O. forces.
By November 1, when the
forward screen of the U.S. and
South Korean troops were
within 20 miles of the Yalu, it
became dear that the tables were
being turned.
That night Peking Radio
announced that “American
aggression” in Korea was
“threatening the security of
People’s China,” and that “the
Chinese people cannot ignore or
treat lightly this blatant threat to
the safety of their beloved
fatherland,” adding;
The soldiers of the People’s Libera-
tion Army in North and East China
have pledged themselves to attack
the American aggressors when the
time comes.
By November 3, on the Man-
churian side of the Yalu, large
forces of Chinese Communist
troops were on the move.
The fire ingredient of North
Communist attacks had changed.
The attacks had become typi-
cally Russian with rocket-firing,
multi-barrel weapons in the
front-line. New Russian jets
had appeared over the frontal
areas. There was no longer any
doubt that the Chinese were
involved in what General Mac-
Arthur later described as “the
most lawless act in history.”
Troops were swarming along the
north, and a general retreat had
begun on the U.N.O. side of the
line.
Australians Resisted
The Australians only 40 miles
from the Manchurian border ran
into fairly stout resistance on
their side near the west coast.
In the Unsan area north of
Pyongyang there was a fierce
Communist drive, and it was
even stronger against the South
Koreans to the north-east, where
North Korean territory consists
of a narrowing strip between
Manchuria and the Sea of
Japan. The Communist attacks
came down from the Yalu aimed
for Pyongyang on one side and
for Hamhung, a large industrial
city which lies just above the
point where the Korean coast
turns north-eastward to run up
to Rashin and U.S.S.R. territory.
By October 31 the enemy
columns in strength were within
10 miles or so of Hamhung, thus
enclosing many South Korean
and American troops on the
north-east of them except on the
seaside. These included the U.S.
7th Division, which landed the
previous week at Iwon, about 65
miles further up the coast from
Hamhung. It had driven to-
wards the Manchurian border,
but found itself in holts with
a powerful formation about 35
miles from the Yalu River. The
U.S. Ist Marine Division at
once began to move up the coast
from Wonsan to guard Ham-
hung, while to the west of them
and on their rearward left flank
the South Korean 6th and 7th
Divisions wrestled with a strong
body of Communists in the
Onjong area, about 45 miles
from the Manchurian border,
and were forced to give way
before them. The Ist U.S,
Cavalry hastened to relieve them
before worse should befall.
Meantime the British Com-
monwealth Brigade had been in-
volved in the west in the affair
in which the 3rd Battalion of
the Royal Australian Regiment
lost its commander, Lieutenant-
Colonel C. H. Green. A heavy
tank-led detachment of the U.S.
24th Division was pushed ahead
of it to capture Sunchon, and
established itself temporarily
about 30 miles from Manchuria.
Front Positions Abandoned
Unsan had been abandoned.
The farthest-flung spearhead of
the U.S. 24th Division, which
had reached a point only 14
miles from the Manchurian
border, had drawn back 50
miles before the onslaught of
enemy detachments well
equipped with self - propelled
guns and Russian tanks which
further inland cut off a regi-
ment of the U.S. Ist Cavalry,
one battalion of which was
eventually surrounded after the
two companion battalions had
cut their way out with the help
of a strong rescue force. The
force which had the battalion in
its clutch was reputedly Chinese.
The situation on November 2
was “fluid” and dangerous, since
the enemy was evidently in very
strong force and very powerfully
armed, and Allied reconnais-
sance had not proved itself very
effective in the previous few
days in anticipating surprises.
In Tokyo General Mac-
Arthur’s spokesman was still in
the position of not being able
to say whether Chinese troops
on an organised scale were fight-
ing in North Korea, but this
display of ignorance may easily
have been sheer guile. Certainly
somebody had begun to fight in
large numbers on the enemy side,
surrounding U.S. battalions,
tearing South Korean divisions
to pieces and putting the whole
carelessly-deployed front-line of
the U.N.O. advance in the pos-
ture of a man in a swift-running
tide who suddenly finds himself
out of his depth and who is try-
ing to find a foothold with his
toes.
Enemy Pressure Increases
The progress of events from
Thursday onward was far from
encouraging. The shape of the
arrangement of the U.N.O.
forces in North Korea had be-
come describable as a “defence
line,” in which increasing masses
of Chinese Communist troops
punched a very large hole in
short order in what General
MacArthur called a major battle.
The eastern half of the U.S.
defences between Hamhung and
Iwon, resting on the Sea of
Japan, had been deeply pene-
trated on its northern frontal
surfaces.
On the western sector there at
first seemed hope that a defence
line would be established from
Chongju in the British sector
through Unsan towards Ham-
hung, where the Sea of Japan
coast turns towards the east.
But this hope was soon dis-
appointed. The S. Koreans in
the area were very badly
mauled.
The situation on November 6
was dangerous. It was reported
that the Chinese were massing
heavily across the Yalu apart
from 40,000 to 50,000 of their
troops already in North Korea.
General MacArthur said that
“a new, fresh army faces us,
their reserves and supplies within
easy reach,” and that a great
military reverse for U.N. forces
had been narrowly averted.
Certainly chances of an
early end to the war have been
dispelled, and the open announce-
ments of Peking Radio relayed
to Europe through Moscow are
an earnest of what is to be ex-
pected. Various political organi-
sations in China, moving auto-
maton-like in accord with Mos-
cow plans and policy, called for
“positive action” against
“American aggression in Korea
representing a serious threat to
the security of China,” adding
that the Americans had planned
their “attacks” as “a preliminary
to an attack on China and all
Asia.” To this Moscow Radio
added that “the United States
was conspiring to annex Korea,
invade China, dominate Asia
and conquer the world.” The
world, of course, is due for “pro-
tection” from this fate by the
glorious Red Army, especially
against the Japanese,” whom the
Americans intend to arm” (Mos-
cow says) to “serve as their
mercenaries.”
Australian Commander
Killed.
“Ek Dum”: The Australian
battalion in Korea has been in-
volved in fighting almost all the
week. On Sunday, October 29,
after a three-days’ lull following
their opposed crossing of the
Taejon River, they went into
action to clear the way into
Chongju, the approach on the
road to the temporary North
Korean capital at Sinuju, near
the Manchurian border.
The advance was made in dry
and dusty weather through rough
mountain country. During the
first part of it the Argylls and
Sutherlands were ahead, but four
miles from Chongju the Aus-
tralians became the advance-
guard with U.S, tank support.
Before long enemy tanks in
ambush were reported and
attacked by rocket-firing U.S.
jets and by the tank ingredient
of the Australian force.
Two companies, B and D, of
Australians were then deployed
on each side of the road, and
A company was set down to
cover command headquarters.
The deployment was accom-
plished under growing fire from
an enemy who was at about bat-
talion strength with strong artil-
lery and tank backing. They were
stiongly reinforced during the
afternoon, and in the first dark
of the evening tried to break
through in a charge which carried


FRENCH
Corn Cure
Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
I Anthony Horderns’
I
DU
m
* W, j
te tk
att
R FINE HOTEL
A Hotel, certainly one of Sydney**
leading Hotels. Hut different to
every otHer in many tHings. THe
Vi/ent worth, for instance, Has ever
Been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. AnotHer tHing. too.
while away from the noise and
Hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
Lft
c~^>yctue^
Thou® BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
Nu-metal
saves
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition i'our motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6. SO/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write or phone MA7250.
Mall Orders post free. 0.0.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
B. 8/11/’6O
BRISTOL. TRADING COMPANY,
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250
Divorce Notices.
TO JOHN LEE address unknown Motor-
bodv Builder.—TAKE NOTICE that
JOSEPH HENRY BROOKE of 16 Wray
Avenue South Fremantle in the State of
Western Australia Truck Driver claiming
to be lawfully married to MARIE
JOSEPHINE BROOKE has commenced an
action and filed a claim against her in
the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia (Matrimonial Causes No. 850 of
1950) for Dissolution of Marriage naming
you as Co-Defendant If you desire
to defend the said action you must within
THIRTY CLEAR DAYS (30) after the
date of the publication of this Notice
file in the Central Office of the Supreme
Court Perth a Statement of your de-
fence to the Plaintiff’s claim or a counter-
claim for any relief to which you are en-
titled In default of your so doing the
said JOSEPH HENRY BROOKE may pro-
ceed in the action and the Court may hear
evidence and judgment may be given in
your absence A copy of the Writ of
Summons with the Statement of Claim
endorsed may be obtained by you free of
charge on application to the under-
mentioned Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
DATED the 27th day of October, 1950.
O. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. FRED
CURRAN, ESQ., of 37-88 Padbury Build-
ings, Forrest Place, Perth, in the State
of Western Australia, Solicitor for the
Plaintiff.
TO ARTHUR JOHN COLIN COLLINS
address unknown Farmer. —TAKE NOTICE
that ENID PATRICIA COLLINS of Kala-
munda in the State of Western Australia
Married Woman claiming to be lawfully
married to you has commenced an action
and filed a claim against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia
(Matrimonial Causes No. 285 of 1950) for
Dissolution of Marriage If you desire
to defend the said action you must
within FORTY (40) CLEAR DAYS after
the date of the publication of this Notice
file in the Central Office of the Supreme
Court Perth a Statement of your defence
to the Plaintiff’s claim or a counterclaim
for any relief to which you are entitled
In default of your so doing the said
ENID PATRICIA COLLINS may proceed
in the action and the Court may hear
evidence and judgment may be given in
your absence A copy of the Writ of
Summons with the Statement of Claim en-
dorsed may be obtained by you free of
charge on application to the undermen-
tioned Solicitor for the Plaintiff. DATED
the 27th day of October 1950. —O. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar. FRED CURRAN,
Solicitor, Forrest Place, Perth, in the
State of Western Australia, Solicitor for
the Plaintiff herein.
THE
‘“WILD CAT MONTHLY”
• Company Accounts
• Mining Activities
PRICE 2/-
df
IT
msa&rA
!»*"
***
F
\)£&
gdf
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
TO H.M. KING GEORGE Vt
Tanqucray Gordon and Co. Ltd.
(Ju€*CU4ji
Gordons
Stcmcls Supk&m&
If any illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
mmm
Giant guillotine at
Lysaghi's Newcastle works
shearing batches of steel §L
m
sheets to standard '
sizes. .a
m
m
■
m \
: 5
\
m
Wm
mmm
m &
J,
mm
lyM-
m
vXwg
:;••••• •;■■•:•■
■
ill
!hb
mmm
m
BUT QUALITY
HAS NEVER BEEN
ICUT!
From its inception as a manufacturing
organisation, John Lysaght (Aust.)
Pty. Ltd., has never permitted the
quality of its products to vary. Even
when demand is beyond the Com-
pany's ability to supply there is no
"cutting corners" and the initial high
standard that made Orb brand
Galvanized Iron and Queen's Head
Flat unequalled for more than a
quarter of a century, is faithfully
maintained. To-day, production is
on a giant and ever growing scale to
meet the expanding needs of Aus-
tralian manufacturers and builders,
but regular inspections and careful
metallurgical tests ensure that every
sheet sold is fully up to standard.
LYSAGHTS
"Growing with *
g
Jolin lysaght (Australia) Fty. Ltd.
syuNHy, Melbourne
ADELAIDE. EREMaJTIE
LSU-817S
them some way into the Aus-
tralian positions before they were
turned round with considerable
casualties. They were repulsed
with machine-gun fire and in one
case by a dashing Australian
bayonet charge led by Lieutenant
Manett (Vic.), In the early
morning, after a night of charges
and sorties the enemy retired,
but the exchange of artillery and
mortar fire continued.
On Monday the Argylls
crossed the river into Chongju,
covered by the Australians, and
met little opposition in the town
itself.
Colonel Green Killed
Meanwhile the Australians
added a casualty to the eight or
nine killed and 30 wounded in
their fierce little battle which
had lasted nearly 37 hours.
Just at dusk the enemy fired
four shells into and around
battalion headquarters, which
lay behind the crest of a hill,
and although there were a
number of men moving about
the only casualty was the bat-
talion commander, Lieutenant-
, Colonel C. H. Green, who was
hit in the stomach as he lay rest-
ing, by a shell fragment. He
died of his wounds on Wednes-
day.
It was a sad blow to the Aus-
tralians and a heavy loss to the
Australian Permanent Forces.
Colonel Green had been one of
the first to enlist for service in
World War 11. He served with
the 2/2 Battalion in the Middle
East and New Guinea, where he
won a D. 5.0., until at 26 years
of age he was appointed to
command the 2/11 Battalion in
March, 1945, He took over
command of the 41 Battalion in
the Northern Rivers in 1948 and
joined the Regular Army last
year. He left a wife and an in-
fant daughter. He was post-
humously awarded a Silver Star
by General MacArthur.
Lieutenant - Colonel F. S.
Walsh succeeded to command
the battalion. He is a Geelong
Grammar School and Duntroon
man, 32 years old, who was in
Tobruk with the 2/13 Infantry.
In Retreat
Later in the week the Aus-
tralians became involved in the
Chinese Communist advance
which wedged in between the
British Brigade and the U.S.
forces to the east of them in the
Pakchon-Chongju area. The
Chinese, wearing normal Chinese
Communist-army uniforms, suc-
ceeded in laying a force across
the communication line of the
Australians and British, but this
obstruction was carved up by
the U.S. 21st Regiment, allow-
ing the British Brigade to retire
across the river directly to the
north of Pyongyang.
It seemed that at the weekend
the Australians were faced with
the prospect of a fighting retreat
if the enemy should breach the
line of the Changchon River, as
he seemed likely to do.
Tibet and Indo-China.
“Ek Dum”; The minor wars
of Tibet and Indo-China go
steadily against the West. In
Indo-China the key French rail-
head of Laokay fell to the Com-
munists during the week, and the
Red River delta, the only part
of the country which the French
and Viet-nam forces can expect
to hold as a base, is under heavy
pressure from the north and
north-west and threatened with
pressure from the south, where
the Communists hold a sub-
stantial block of territory in
which they have been so far
more or less passive in the pre-
sent current operations. But the
future is not very hopeful.
In Tibet, Lhasa appears to be
in the hands of a Communist
fifth-column. The Chinese in-
vasion force has reached the
approaches to the high passes
about 100 miles from the capi-
tal.
Their very presence is a fac-
tor which cannot be ignored in
the defence plans of Pakistan
and India, where the Press has
pointed out that the pretext on
which the invasion is based —the
threat of Western aggression—
is “false and ridiculous, in view
of the fact that the only Euro-
pean country in a position to
threaten Tibet is Soviet Russia.”
The “Hindustan Times” asked
last week;
Does Peking suggest that Moscow
is plotting to enslave China via Tibet?
The wolf in ASsop had better justifica-
tion for swallowing the lamb than
China has for forcibly swallowing
Tibet.
The whole foundation of
Nehru’s policy, which was based
primarily not upon intimate re-
lations with the other members
of the British Commonwealth
but on close friendship and
alliance with Communist China,
has been cut from under his feet,
and he is now forced to recog-
nise either that he must come
into the Communist bloc com-
pletely or abandon his Asia-for-
the-Asians attitude and throw
his lot in with the Western
nations. It must be clear to him
(if it has not been all along)
that Russia will not be satisfied
with anything less in Asia than
the early establishment of its
suzerainty over the whole con-
tinent.


A Solicitor to draw
your Will . . .
!.&
11*0! i i
VN>
:
VWlßllfil
a Trustee
to safeguard your Estate
Only an experienced person can hope to
contend with the complicated problems
and other aspects of a Will and the
administration of an Estate. During your
lifetime, and afterwards, your obligations
to your family or other beneficiaries can
be honoured only by your care now.
The Permanent Trustee Company offers
you the sage counsel of over sixty years’
experience as Executors and Trustees;
offers you the stability and protection of
over £1,000,000 in uncalled capital and
assets.
Avoid unnecessary risks; enjoy peace of
mind and ensure security of your
interests now and always. Appoint the
Permanent Trustee Company as your
Executor and Trustee.
For full details, call in and interview one
of our Executive Officers in confidence
and without obligation; or write for our
free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman.
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman.
F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.ChM., F.RA.CS.
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Sub-Manager & Secretary: S. U. White.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St.. Sydney
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CHINA HOPES.
The pious notion of Chinese
Communists being purely
“agrarian reformers” has ap-
parently been dumped overboard
by all hands and the cook aboard
the good ship Wishful Think,
but the craft still sails fair and
free on another tack.
Here are a few random lines
from the assorted chanteys:
“Manchester Guardian”; “The
problems facing the Communists
are immense ; their control over
large parts of China is still
sketchy; the opposition con-
tinues a guerrilla resistance in
many provinces ; a part of the
population, which first wel-
comed the Communists as an
alternative to the Kuomintang,
is now disillusioned.”
The same; “So far the
Chinese State has moved away
from the orthodox Communist
lines. It would have been sur-
prising if it had not done so.
The Chinese are empirical by
temperament. It is curious how
little discussion there is of
Marxian principles in China.
Mao Tse-tung’s writings are at
best empirical application of
Marxist doctrines to the Chinese
situation.”
Also from the same (by a
correspondent lately in China):
“The Communist party in trying
to maintain its authority and to
continue its revolutionary in>
petus will be handicapped by
not having at its disposal in the
country districts a very efficient
or elaborate machinery of ad-
ministration. There is a differ-
ence in this respect between
China and the other great Asian
land Power, India. In India
there exists a hierarchy of vil-
lage headmen who are available
to whatever Government rules
the country. In China a machine
has still to be created. Until it
is built a Chinese Government
cannot be really strong against
its own people. Another handi-
cap of the Government is that
a very large number of the
higher officials through whom it
must operate—perhaps 70 per
cent. —are converts from the
Kuomintang. Even after con-
version their zeal for revolution
is not very strong.”
“Washington Post”: “That
China is still equal to chaos,
with banditry rife and a new
warlordism in an incipient stage,
is the inference from reports
coming from Hong Kong.
Christopher Rand, reporting
from there in the New York
‘Herald Tribune,’ estimates that
about half of conquered China
has lapsed out of Communist
control. What has happened is
that the Chinese farmer, who
was promised a new and greener
earth than he had ever known
before, is tasting the bitter tea
of a failure by Mao Tse-tung to
deliver, and, indeed, of more ex-
tortion than ever by his new
overlords. This is the usual pat-
tern of revolutions in a Mai-
thusian land where intermittent
civil war joins with flood and
famine as a check on over-
population.”
“New York Times”; “In
China much of the Communists’
celebrated reform consisted in
confiscation and distribution,
But the average size of the
‘large estates’ that were confis-
cated was 13 acres. The result
was not simple redistribution but
fragmentation. The grower be-
came nominally a freeholder,
but the Communist regime
promptly took away from him
more in tax levies than he had
s^y
coaM
—London “News Chronicle."
“NOW YOU JUST SHOW HIM A RED FLAG—AND HE’LL FIGHT.”
paid in crop shares as a tenant.
There is therefore good reason
to place faith in the reports of
growing unrest in rural Com-
munist China.”
London “Times” Hong Kong
correspondent: “It is difficult to
avoid the impression that, since
the beginning of this year, there
has been a gradual spread of
disillusionment, in varying de-
grees, among several of the
main categories of the people.
This disillusionment is most
marked, as might be expected,
among the richer and middle
classes in the big cities, who
have been hit hardest by the
heavy taxation, by the enforced
purchase of victory bonds, by
the new labor practices and by
the laws governing the relations
of capital and labor. But it ex-
tends also to other groups. The
peasants, representing 90 per
cent, of the total population, to
whose support the Communists
owed much of their victory, have
had to endure continuing hard-
ships, not only an unparalleled
series of natural disasters but
also high taxation, enforced re-
quisitioning of grain and a
shortage of consumer goods.
The urban workers have not
enjoyed any improvement in
their living standards, and are
now brought under stricter dis-
cipline. The teachers in the uni-
versities, an important group,
have begun to feel the pinch of
a tightening ideological control.
Even the students, the most en-
thusiastically pro - Communist
group of all, are reported to be
less enthusiastic than they were.”
O. M. Green, in London “Ob-
server” : “Certainly at present
nothing could seem closer than
the tie between Russia and
China, continually trumpeted by
the clique of Moscow-trained in-
tellectuals in Peking. But it may
be open to question whether
this enthusiasm is shared by the
Communist generals and others
of the party. According to some
observers, it is not.... The one
point on which all the best
authorities are agreed is that
China is too big, too proud, too
much set on doings things for
herself in her own way to be-
come a satellite of Russia.”
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “In-
dications that the ‘Red’ Chinese
Government is dissatisfied with
the economic aid it is receiving
from the Soviet Union have been
noted by diplomatic sources in
London Only now is the full
impact of the lack of U.S. aid,
which was cut off in the summer
of 1949, being felt in China,
according tp information avail-
able to these sources. Most of
the 275 million dollars worth of
U.S. aid allocated to China for
1948 got through, but is now ex-
hausted. It consisted mainly of
food for the big cities, cotton
for the Shanghai and North
China mills and oil. In place
of this aid the ‘Red’ Chinese
have been able to get from the
Soviet Union a credit of only
300 million dollars over the next
five years for capital equipment,
to be paid for by raw materials,
tea, gold and U.S, d011ar5..,...
There are reports that China
is looking to the West to supply
the gaps in Soviet aid.”
Reinstating Spain.
London “Daily Telegraph”
highly appraises the importance
of Spain to the West, which is
now about to let bygones be
bygones;—
“Western Europe is still weak,
and the importance of Spain’s
collaboration must not be mini-
mised. Her strategic position is
vital; her army is resolute and
efficient; her navy is the equal of
that of France ; her aircrews are
outstanding. Only heavy arma-
ments, scientific equipment and
modern aircraft are lacking.”
A consistent critic of the
ostracising of Spain, the same
paper recalls that it was by a
majority of only four votes that
the U.N.O. Assembly last year
reaffirmed its boycott. “Since
then realism has been powerfully
reinforced against prejudice.
Open aggression has confronted
every nation with the unequi-
vocal choice between coun-
tenancing it and preparing by
every means to resist it. Spain
has shown where she stands.
Cold-shouldered as she is, she
has gone as far as any member
of the United Nations in
declaring her readiness to share
‘the armed resistance of peace-
loving nations to aggression, and
to make comparable sacrifices,’
There should not be a moment’s
hesitation about the peace-loving
nations’ answer to such an
offer.”
For some time there have, in
fact, been signs that the ostra-
cism was breaking down under
the weight of events and of its
own absurdity. As recently as
last April the U.S. Senate turned
down a proposed loan to Spain
for economic aid: lately the
same body passed a loan for
twice as much by an overwhelm-
ing vote.
Also, an Edinburgh “Scots-
man” U.N.O. correspondent has
reported: “A return of Spain to
the community of nations would
probably be accompanied by
financial assistance from the
U.S. and the inclusion of the
whole Iberian peninsula, instead
of only the Portuguese portion,
into the Western defence ring.
Reports from Madrid indicate
that Franco is pressing for these
diplomatic, economic and mili-
tary concessions together, and
Lake Success is inclined to be-
lieve he will get all three before
the year is out.”
Meanwhile a London “Times”
correspondent has been moving
about among the Spanish people
seeing how they have been
taking it. Of their characteristic-
ally Spanish reaction to the
Franco rule, he records:
“So pervasive and obstinate
is the Spanish national tempera-
ment that any Government
machine must, in the end, be
subordinated to it. A Spanish
authoritarian regime is therefore
unhke any other. It can be
arbitrary, menacing, or sensible ;
but none of its manifestations
digs very far below the surface
of daily life. Before the dignity
and independence of the indi-
vidual all Spanish Governments
are in the end made to look
small. Those which survive—
and Franco’s is no exception—
are the Governments which
issue broad edicts but overlook
their detailed application when-
ever it is convenient.”
And of the general reactions
to Spain’s present position:
“The people have suffered
immensely. In either camp,
since the civil war, it is hard to
find a family which has not
counted its dead. From the
rest of Europe successive
Spanish Governments have been
receiving, for 20 years past, a
great deal of admonition, but
otherwise only ineffectual help
or ineffectual hindrance. No
wonder, therefore, that the
present tendency is to shrug the
shoulders, to accept —with some
understandable disgust an
ostracism which affects the
private citizen only intermit-
tently and the Government ser-
vant scarcely at all, and to turn
inwards towards those enduring
concepts which cannot be
touched by adversity of circum-
stance —towards the Church, the
land and the nation.”
Korea Settlement.
The final settlement in Korea
(in “Manchester Guardian’s”
editorial view) must be one that
will in no way suggest “that the
North Korean aggression has
paid any dividend, however
small, to those who inspired
it”:
“The chief aim of the United
Nations has been to show that
aggression does not pay. In the
days of the old League of
Nations it used to be argued that
if the League had only on one
major occasion succeeded by
military or economic sanctions
in frustrating an aggressor, this
single demonstration would have
sufficed, and future aggressors
would have been deterred.
“The solution reached over


m
BABCOCK-DETROIT
SPREADER STOKER
wrw , z /^
mm
m
m
m.
yn
m
mam
TOP—Side view of Babcock-Detrolt
BotoStoker with power dumping:
grate.
BOTTOM—Sectional view of Bab-
cook-Detrolt BotoStoker.
For Medium end
Moderate Sized
Industrial Installations
The Babcock-Detroit Roto
Stoker is supplied with
either hand or mechanically
operated dumping grate,
and is employed mainly for
medium and moderate
sized industrial installations.
This stoker has been
demonstrated as capable of
handling a very wide range
of fuels, including bitum-
inous, sub-bituminous coals
and lignites, brown coal
and mixtures of coke and
coal.
One of its main advantages is its suitability in plants
where the type or quality of coal delivered varies from
time to time.
As suppliers of all types of firing equipment, whether
for pulverised fuel, oil fuel, other mechanical types of
stokers, or any other known firing method, Babcocks
have the experience necessary to advise on the right
equipment most suitable and economical to your needs.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS - - REGENTS PARK, N.S.V.
Branch Offices and Agendas in aN States
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
O. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
RMI4
FONDE
*
EN 1724
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
fly
SSC&OSS
ifie (S>/ourfij/ &m/orl OJaif/
svv'.KJ
m
mm
i
*
jfil
£
JB&fr
mrnms
rt
c VV'JyO
m
-- a
few
•• •
Dancing under the stars at
xn&xmxs famous Mo ana Hotel, Hono-
lulu, where you stay as
Canadian Pacific's guest.
To CANADA, UNITED STATES
and UNITED KINGDOM
Air travel is luxury when you fly Canadian Pacific style.
Giant 4-engined pressurised airliners speed you across the Pacific
while you relax in your “Loungaire” reclining chair.
Overnight you sleep ashore at Fiji and Honolulu. At Honolulu
you spend 24 or 36 hours at the modern Moana Hotel free of
all charge. That means you can see the world-famous beauty
spots of Honolulu . . . bask in the sun on Waikiki Beach.
FOOD FIT FOR A KING . . . satisfying three-course meals or
snacks at a moment’s notice. Bar service, too! It costs no more
to fly in luxurious Canadian Pacific style.
8
w
%
CAPTAIN’S
COMPLIMENTS.
A refreshing aperitif . . •
then enjoy food that’s fit for
a king . . . satisfying three-
course meals at a moment’s
notice. Bar service too! Two
charming stewardesses go out
of their way to make your
journey an experience you
will always remember.
For further details apply Canadian Pacific Railway Company, or
Union Steam Ship Co. (General Agents), 247 George Street, Sydney,
and 59 William Street, Melbourne, or any authorised Tourist Agenoy.
JUMMMES
"THE WINGS OF THE WORLD'S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM"
Canadian Pacific Air Lines Limited Incorporated in Canada.
Korea must be such that it is
quite clear not only that aggres-
sion does not yield all the ad-
vantages which it seeks, but that
it cannot hope even for a very
much watered-down dividend.
“Unless that is accepted as the
moral of the Korean affair, the
sanctions against North Korea
will, in their effect on world
history, be as useless as those
tried against Mussolini in the
Abyssinian war.”
As another typical example,
“Yorkshire Post’s” view of the
final settlement (it happens to
be identical in most points with
declared U.S. policy):
“It is plain that the aim must
be the establishment of a united
Korea, controlled in the first
instance by an Administration
acting under the authority of the
United Nations, but with
efficient self-government as the
goal.
“Forces will have to be main-
tained in the country to protect
and police it for some time to
come. These also should act
under United Nations orders and
should consist of contingents
from a number of countries.
“A long-term programme of
reconstruction and development
should be devised, with
economic help. It must be de-
monstrated that Korea is to be
free from the threat of any form
of imperialist exploitation, either
Russian or Western ; and that
the country will be assured of a
prosperous and peaceful future,
with a United Nations guarantee
of its integrity.
“Korea is a test-case. Its
name has become a symbol of
resistance to aggression. It must
also become an earnest to the
Asiatic peoples of Western good-
will and good faith,”
French Caution.
While Foreign Ministers at
their last meeting readily agreed
on other aspects of their Ger-
man policy, France held out on
its conditions for any German
rearmament.
“No Frenchmen,” London
“Times” explained, “believe that
Germany is an immediate
danger to France. Their first
fear is that a rearmed Germany,
even within an integrated sys-
tem of Atlantic and European
defence, might involve Western
Europe in a war on behalf of
Germany’s own national aspira-
tions.
“The demand of the French
Government is that the German
contingents shall not be brought
in until the combined defence
force of the Western Powers has
been actually created and fully
equipped. The European de-
fence force is still only a pro-
ject. ....
“It is natural,” concluded the
“Times” comment, “that France
should wish to see the force in
being with tangible safeguards
before committing herself to the
familiar risks of German re-
armament.”
J. Bull’s Future.
Envisaged by the Archbishop
of York, Dr. Garbett:
“Probably the contribution
our nation will make to the
future will be different from
what it has hitherto made. We
have lost much of our wealth,
and England is no longer the
centre of the commerce and in-
dustry of the world. It is un-
likely we shall ever regain the
special position we once held ;
but through a high standard of
education in our universities and
schools Great Britain may in the
future lead the world in culture ;
and though the nation can no
longer produce the same
quantity of goods, it should
excel in their quality.
“New inventions made by its
scientists may open new possi-
bilities of well-being, and, as in
the past Great Britain led the
way to democracy, so in the
future it should give to the world
the model of a welfare State
which gives security to all its
citizens and at the same time
leaves them with individual free-
dom, responsibility and initia-
tive.”
Dragnet Digest.
Concerning “Political Philosophers.”
—Sir Campbell Stuart, speaking in
New York: “Many simple and honest
people in many lands have been
deceived into thinking of Communism
as a new philosophy, a new faith.
But in truth it has no such dignity.
It is, in so far as it affects the world
as a whole, primarily an instrument
of Russian power-politics.”
* * * *
Corns’ Choice—A London “News
Chronicle” columnist on the French
rounding-up of Spanish Communists,
who were put on board a French
cruiser for Algeria on their way to
an internment camp in the desert
region south of Oran: “A point of
piquant interest about this procedure
is that the arrested Communists were
offered the choice between being sent
to a country behind the Iron Curtain
and being interned in non-European
French territory. Out of 177 all but
30 chose the desert camp. I don’t
blame them.”
*
Rayon-and-Wool. —Because of the
high price of woollen and worsted
textiles Leeds clothing manufacturers
(reports London “Financial Times”)
are experimenting with cloth contain-
ing up to 50 per cent, of rayon.
One firm has made arrangements to
issue rayon-mixture suits to members
of its staff in order to test the wear-
ing qualities of the new fabrics. It
is expected that the new rayon-wool
fabrics will lower cloth prices by as
much as 7s. 6d. per yard, but manu-
facturers of the fabrics refuse to
quote delivery dates at present
because of the difficulty of obtaining
adequate supplies of rayon.
* * * *
Steel Grab. —The Attlee steel grab
(which has been hotly criticised in all
sections of the British Press except
the party’s hack papers) is considered
by “Manchester Guardian” certain to
have effects on the way in which
Britain’s rearmament is carried out.
“The transfer is a complex affair
touching ancillary and allied indus-
tries, and any doubts about control
and supplies must hamper armament
production. Besides this there will
also be the political uncertainty, since
the Conservatives are pledged to undo
nationalisation if ever they are
returned.”
* * * *
Gospel According to Joe. —Debating
made easy, as observed by N. Y.
“Herald Tribune’s” U.N.O. corres-
pondent: “Russian delegates to the
United Nations customarily carry a
handy assortment of quotations from
Generalissimo Josef Stalin. When
Russia is criticised, it’s easy for the
Russian delegate to reply. He simply
selects the appropriate Stalin quote
and reads it aloud. Since any words
uttered by Stalin must be accepted
as absolute and indisputable truth by
a Russian, the Russian delegate
always appears to believe that by
quoting Stalin he has closed the
argument and demonstrated the cor-
rectness of the Russian position
beyond any possible challenge.”
* * * *
Bear’s Bugbear. —Yugoslav Com-
munist-party paper “Borba” com-
ments on a subject it should know
something about: “The bugbear of
cosmopolitanism is scourging the
Soviet Union. Panic has seized the
Russian historians, the biologists, the
musicians and the other Soviet
engineers of human souls. Only ten
strokes of a pen are enough to make
one a cosmopolitan. Let us say, for
example, that in a geography book a
Russian writer has ‘too warmly’
described the beauty of Niagara Falls.
This would be enough to proclaim
him a cosmopolitan, which means a
counter-revolutionary and a traitor.”
* * * *
Pakistan Progress. Very highly
rated by London “News Chronicle”:
“Pakistan had to build up the struc-
ture of her national life from scratch.
Few modern States have tried to
accomplish so much in so short a
time. But by untiring devotion to
the ideals which Mr. Jinnah preached,
the task has been undertaken and
discharged. Pakistan has emerged as
the most powerful and most pros-
perous Moslem State in the world.”
* * * *
Uncle Sam Prepares. —The general
outlook and aims of the U.S. war-
readiness programme, as summed-up
by a London “Times Review of
Industry” correspondent in New
York: “Military leaders in Washing-
ton do not believe that the Soviet
Union will start a world war: they
feel that the United States stock of
atomic bombs will be a sufficient
deterrent. But the Korean war has
emphasised the weakness of United
States defences, and the decision has
therefore been made to convert
industry to war production as rapidly
as possible over the next nine to 12
months. By mid-1951 the Govern-
ment should be able to decide whether
to level .out military production or
proceed to full mobilisation for war.
In either event the essential first year’s
preparation will b'e done.”
* * * ♦
Japs Appreciate TJ.S. —The finding
of a London “Fortnightly” corres-
pondent who has seen a good deal of
Japan and talked with many Japs
of all classes lately; “It seems that
there is a real regard and respect lor
the Americans, and that it is founded
not so much on subservience to power
as on appreciation of kindly and
generous treatment, as opposed to
the dreadful things Japanese leaders
told their people would happen when,
and if, they ever came under Ameri-
can dominance. Instead of having
everything taken from them they
have been given vast stores of life’s
necessities and have seen themselves
the object of large expenditure. With
the exception of a handful of war
criminals, even active participants in
the struggle against the West have
been restored to their former places.”


NOW! Dentai Science Shows that
Brushing Teeth Right After Eating with
COLGATE
DENTAL CREAM
STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Better Than Any Other Way
off Preventing Tooth Decay According to Reports
in Authoritative Dental Literature!
m
EVEN MORE IMPORTANT,
THERE WERE NO NEW CAVI-
TIES WHATEVER for more
than 1 out of 3 who used Colgate
Dental Cream correctly! Not even
one new cavity in two full years!
No other dentifrice has proof of
such results! No dentifrice can
stop all tooth decay, or help
cavities already started. But the
Colgate way is the most effective
way yet known to help your
dentist prevent decay!
2 YEARS’ RESEARCH AT 5
AMERICAN UNIVERSITIES
—case histories of hundreds of
people who used Colgate Dental
Cream right after eating—shows
the Colgate way stops tooth decay
best! Better than any other home
method of oral hygiene known!
Yes, both clinical and X-ray
examinations showed the Colgate
way stopped more decay for
more people—than ever before
reported in all dentifrice history!
■ " ■
Get more for your money! FAMILY ECONOMY SIZE, ONLY 3/3
ALWAYS USE ’
COLGATE'S TO CLEAN
YOUR BREATH WHILEIpp
YOU CLEAN YOUR t
TEETH -AND HELP
STOP TOOTH DECAY/ .
D4/160
No Other Toothpaste or Powder
AMMONIATED OR NOT
Offers Proof of Such Results)
Missing Friend.
JACK LOCKINGTON
(full name JOHN BOWEN LOCKINGTON)
formerly of IV Norton Street, Sydney, son
of Teresa and late Fred Lockington, of
Melbourne, or ANY PERSON KNOWING
HIS WHEREABOUTS, please communi-
cate with GORDON RENNIOK, Solicitor,
839 Collins Street, Melbourne.
dfg
FOR LONGER HAULS
Long distance hauls need tyres specially
engineered for today's conditions—that's
why you need Hi-Milers —they deliver far
longer service.
Tomk
FOR FASTER
Hi-Milers stand up to the
generated in tyres by today's
because they are built with
Rayon cord.
SCHEDULES
interna! heat
faster hauls—
heat resisting
df
k
FOR GREATER SAFETY
Hundreds of operators have proved that
Hi-Milers not only give better mileage, but
are superior in traction, blowout-resistance
and non-skid protection.
md mqtv
FOR LOWER COST PER MILE!
The toughness built into Hi-Miler Truck and Bus tyres adds up to
money in your pocket—they cost you less per mile. See your local
Goodyear Dealer for expert advice and service.
HI-MILER
Truck & Bus Tyres
GOODYEAR
10AL4-16
HI-MILER RIB
For long, fast
hauls and for
service where
long mileage is
required-
HI-MILER
ALL-WEATHER
Recommended
wherever
greater trac-
tion U needed.
m
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“If you’re lucky enough to get a
suitable man, you’re your own boss.”
—Article on marriage.
And his, too!
•b
“The visit here of this famed
anaesthetist will be invaluable.”
—Melbourne “Age:”
But what we really need is
someone to wake us up.
“A woman’s eyes are not so much
for looking as for being looked at.”
—“New Idea.”
Yet she generally has some-
thing definite in view.
•h
“The players conducted themselves
excellent—not one word on or off the
links was heard.”
—Suburban paper.
Their next course should be
in grammar.
•I-
-“ The fashionable woman next sea-
son must have dark chestnut hair.”
— Women’s magazine.
Hundreds are already dyeing
to get it.
•h -h
“Women no longer believe that they
must marry to be successful.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser."
That is, after they’ve become
wedded to a good job.
“Any woman who desires beauty
must learn the art of sleep.”
—Beauty hint.
But she should never be caught
napping, all the same.
A Gesture to Progress.
“Orton claimed that hypnotism
should be taught to all teachers and
should become part of the curriculum
of every school.”
—Sydney ‘‘Sunday Sun.”
The time is past when martinets
Could wield uncurbed tyrannic
power
In schools where cane or direst
threats
Of punishment made pupils
cower.
For nowadays the New Regime
That emphasises moral suasion
Has made of school a scholar s
dream
And lesson-time a great occa-
sion.
So let us still be up to date
And, making use of lore
hypnotic.
By calm suggestion inculcate
Far more than old-time Heads
despotic.
Yet hold a bit! Some hapless
mug
Might be a victim of man-
slaughter.
If noticed by the local pug
While making passes at his
daughter.
D.H.E.
Chemical Reaction.
“Need for salt caused first kiss.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser.”
You used to kiss me drastically,
And hold me inelastically
You seemed enthusiastically
Prepared to love me well.
But now I know salinity
Brought you to my vicinity.
And what I thought divinity
Was just NaCl.
S.D.
Intelligence Test for
Prospective Young
“Labor” Politicians.
1. —The night-trots course of
which you are a regular patron,
and into which naturally you
always get in “on the nod,” is
alongside the College of Fine
Arts. A great arterial highway
to relieve the city’s present
traffic chaos is proposed, and
the plan submitted to your
party’s Cabinet involves the
sacrifice of the racecourse. In-
dependent traffic experts confirm
that this is the ideal route. Give
at least one reason, other than
The Movement’s unshakable
conviction that night - trots
(with betting) offer a far more
suitable form of culture for the
workers than appreciation of the
fine arts, why you should start
a pressure-group to have the
scheme altered to allow the high-
way go through the site of the
college and so save a section of
the valuable horse-racing in-
dustry for the benefit of the
State.
2.—The “swinging” seat for
“Three more fences, lady, and then you hit the main road.”
which you have gained the pre-
selection was held for the party
at the last elections on Com-
munist preferences. You have
been given much publicity in a
section of the capitalist daily
Press as a “moderate,” and your
campaign-director considers it
will be psychologically sound
for you to wind up your cam-
paign with a fierce anti-Com-
munist speech in an endeavor to
woo some of the “swinging”
voters. You hear privately that
the Comrades are threatening
that if you make any more
attacks on the “working-class
movement” they will at the polls,
in order to ensure your defeat,
intensify their usual practice of
voting early in other people’s
names, using the names of dead
men, invalids, etc. Taking into
consideration the great import-
ance of preserving a united front
against the exploiters of the pro-
letariat, say if you would con-
sider it prudent, on the day
your speech is to be made, to
develop a severe attack of
laryngitis.
3. —As one of the loudest-
mouthed champions of one of
the most cherished and pub-
licised “principles” of the party,
that of “one man one job,” you
have succeeded in landing a seat
so safe that it could easily
be held by a leprous North
Korean if he had the party
“ticket” on him. You retain,
of course, your other job
as president of a militant
union, and in the latter capacity
you order the members out on
strike in protest against an
Arbitration Court judgment,
happy in the knowledge that
only the mugs, and not you, will
be losing wages. The strike is a
long and disastrous one, both for
the union, whose members have
eventually to crawl back to
work on pre-strike terms, and to
the nation, the crippling loss to
production having had, accord-
ing to economic experts, a severe
effect on the cost of living. Ex-
plain why your next broadcast
over the party’s own station will
contain a savage attack on the
“Tory” Government for doing
nothing, in the interests of their
masters the private banks, to
check the rising cost of living
which is ruining the workers.
4. —You have built up a repu-
tation in the party as a spokes-
man for the “moderates.” With
the party rule that no Com-
munist can be a member of the
A.L.P., and vice versa, you are
in hearty agreement, though you
see nothing strange in your
leader affably greeting Com-
munist union officials who come
to see him from time to time on
industrial matters as Tom, Jim,
etc.; nor could you see any-
thing wrong, at your first visit
to a full meeting of the supreme
governing body of The Move-
ment, to find Communist leaders
of powerful trade-unions hob-
nobbing with and even out-
numbering other union leaders.
When the conference adjourns
you happen to be in a group at
the corner pub which is having
a few beers with some of the
Red leaders, the phony war being
temporarily forgotten in the
realisation that you are all
Socialists (though of slightly
varying degree), all protagonists
of the class-war, and, on your
part, with a true appreciation
that if the Comrades decided to
withhold the capitation fees of
their unions The Movement
would quickly go broke. Say
which, in these circumstances,
you would find easier to swal-
low: the beer or your “prin-
ciples.”
5. —Aware that such a pseudo-
nym as “Honest” Herb or
“Honest” Ned, if it can be
shrewdly cultivated, is worth
tubfuls of votes in an election,
you have studiedly laced your
speeches, especially when Par-
liament is on the air, with such
phrases as “As an honest man I
am compelled,” “I honestly and
sincerely believe,” “A fearless
and honest approach to this
question,” etc., etc. “Honesty”
having loomed large in your
criticism of a Government bill,
you are so carried away with
enthusiasm —to the point of
almost believing what you are
saying—that you solemnly de-
clare you will resign your seat
rather than jettison your high
principles by voting for it. Then
the party executive, somersault-
ing because they know if they
are forced to go to the country
on the issue the party will be
slaughtered, peremptorily
orders all “Labor” members to
vote with the “Tories.” Would
you consider it expedient to ex-
plain lafer that you voted for
the measure purely because you
deemed that you couldn’t be a
party to holding up the business
of the nation?
6. —You have qualified to be-
come one of the hierarchy of
the party whose proud boast it
is that it alone has the interests
of the toiling wage-plugs at
heart. You have £24,000 out on
property - mortgage at good
interest; you have four
palatial homes and a yacht;
complementary to your Par-
liamentary salary also are a
half-interest in the book of one
of the big fielders, several direc-
torships and extensive share-
holdings in industry. You have
also married money. In a speech
attacking the policy of your
political opponents, how many
times, to be effective, would you
use the term “vicious vested
interests”?
BO.


l* e
#
LAUNCHES
PtWOKMBSTrBR
1 \
gdf
DlMf
msm
woms
mmm
\
eta
TRADE
MARK
FACTORIES: FELTHAM. ENG.;
TOLEDO, U.S.A.; WINDSOR, CAN.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years’ practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the
orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABBEBB DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27R), 248 Elizabeth St., Sydney
a
e
/
7
When the perfection of the setting
calls for something of
real character and unquestionable
distinction, you will find
the appropriate cigarette hears
the name of Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London in
keeping with the occasion
when only the best will do.
R WPOINTMfMT
•cßAOcowsn to
m haottt tms im
11l
tins of 20
3/-
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Benson ZjHeboes
LTD
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
&
W»U
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
For outdoor sport of any descrip-
tion weather conditions on Saturday
were utterly wretched, as a particu-
larly vicious southerly gale swept its
way up the eastern portion of the
continent. Driving scuds of rain
before it, the gale chilled the 60,000
who turned up for Derby Day at
Remington, and blew its breath of
misery over another 17,600-odd en-
thusiasts who went to the Cricket
Ground for the M.C.C. v. Victoria
match. Passing on to Sydney, its
principal victims were the S.T.C.
meeting at Canterbury and the N.S.W.
v. Q’land Sheffield Shield match. By
the time the breeze reached Brisbane
it still had sufficient strength to blow
in the plate-glass window of a broad-
casting box at the Queensland tennis
championships and to make for an
unpleasant Q.T.C. Derby Day at
Eagle Farm.
* * * *
With his wonderful record as a
racehorse and as a sire. Eclipse
remains today the most famed horse
in turf annals. Unbeaten as a race-
horse, Eclipse did not win the English
Derby, merely because he had done
with racing some years before the
Derby was invented. When the first
Derby field lined up in May, 1780,
Eclipse had entered upon a stud
career in the course of which he was
to sire 335 winners. A son of
Eclipse, Spitfire, contested the first
English Derby and finished third.
The following year another son,
Young Eclipse, won the Blue Riband,
and descendants of the male line of
Eclipse have been winning Derbies
ever since—not only in England, but,
as the idea of a classic staying test
for three-year-olds has spread,
throughout the racing world.
Chronologically it may seem a long
step from the first of all Derby Days
at Epsom in 1780 to the 1950 run-
ning of the Victoria Derby at
Flemington, but the two are directly
linked by the wonderful thoroughbred
line founded by Eclipse. Of the
dozens and dozens of lines emanating
from Eclipse, most wandered off to
vanish in the wilderness of nearly two
centuries of experimental and indis-
criminate breeding. The main strong
thread which has come down to us
today was that which began with
Eclipse’s oddly-named son Pot-8-Os
(1773), thence to his son Waxy (1790)
and Waxy’s son Whalebone (1807).
Then again the threads wandered off
in sundry directions, but from the
maze emerged the three main families
of Eclipse still going strong today—
those of Bend Or (1877), Hampton
(1872) and Sterling (1868). Of these
it is the last-named which brings us
to Flemington, 1950.
In 1932 the Sterling line produced
in England Bahram, who, like his
progenitor Eclipse, was unbeaten on
the turf. Bahram won the Derby,
St. Leger and £43,000 in stakes before
entering upon a most successful stud
career, in the midst of which he was
sold to America for 40,000 guineas.
Among the English progeny of
Bahram was a colt named Whirlaway,
who, after a light and not oyer-suc-
cessful racing career, was acquired by
A. W. Thomson and Co. for Widden
Stud (N.S.W.), where he commenced
stud duties in 1945. Among the
Whirlaway progeny (his second crop)
offered at the 1949 Sydney Yearling
Sales was a chestnut colt out of New
Flower, who went for 1500 guineas
to Mr. W. Balloch. On Saturday the
Whirlaway-New Flower colt won the
Victoria Derby and brought his total
stake winnings to just on £15,000.
Having in mind the name of his
dam New Flower, the colt was named
Alister after the late Alister Clarke,
erstwhile chairman of the M.V.R.C.,
a noted horticulturist and famed
particularly for his cultivation of new
varieties of roses. As a two-year-
old Alister showed scant promise. He
first attracted this page’s attention,
as mentioned at the time, with a fast-
finishing third in the Chatsworth Plate
at Caulfield in August. In the com-
paratively brief period since then
Alister has clearly established himself
the best three-year-old of his year.
His last six starts have yielded two
seconds and four wins, including the
two Derbies and the w.f.a. W. S. Cox
Plate.
Alister started at 7-to-4-on, and
won the Victoria Derby in really
effortless fashion. The only sur-
prising feature of the race was that
so many owners should have parted
with a hefty acceptance fee to start
colts with scarcely any prospect other
than to enjoy the reflected glory of
having run in Alister’s Derby, There
were, all told, 15 starters. With the
pace somewhat slowish, Alister (R.
Heather), who shows himself amen-
able to being ridden in just whatever
fashion occasion demands, was always
coasting along in a handy position.
A full-brother to last year’s winner
Delta, Midway did much of the pace-
' making, and at one stage looked as
though he might at least give Alister
something to run down, but, enter-
ing the straight, Alister swept up,
smothered the leaders, went off to a
five-lengths lead, and still had three
lengths in hand at the finish after
being eased up as they approached
the post. Midway struggled on to
gain second money and Londonderry
came home fairly well for third.
Other events at Flemington boiled
down to a procession of good races
won well by good horses. True
Course (W. Williamson) further
demonstrated her superiority among
the three-year-old fillies by downing
Weka and Niaranga in the mile
Wakeful Stakes, and it is difficult to
visualise her failing in the Oaks.
Jockey W. Williamson and the
champion mare Chicquita seemed,
for once, a little out of touch with
each other in the running of the
L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes, and
Comic Court (J. Purtell) was able
to notch up another victory over the
mare, the margin being \\ lengths.
Thracian Lad made a handy job of
downing Hoyle and Bruin in the
Hotham Handicap; Eller she (S.
Ralph) finished brilliantly to beat
Spitfire and Gallant Rob in the mile
Cantala Stakes; and the Dhoti colt
Jana (J. Purtell) was particularly im-
pressive in also coming from well
back to account for Fengari and
Diplomacy in the Maribyrnong Plate
for two-year-olds.
* * * *
Saturday’s Queensland Derby was
won by Basha Felika, a son of The
Buzzard-Perfect Morn; runner-up
was Mr. Standby (by Mr. Standfast),
who just shaded Countess Rivoli, a
daughter of Malt Denis. The
Guineas winner Coniston went out a
warm favorite, looked an absolute
picture, had every chance and failed;
evidently he is simply not a genuine
stayer. Four Queensland Derby win-
ners have now been credited to that
grand old sire of stayers The Buzzard.
* * * *
The Elements seemed to have
declared war on Sydney racegoers on
Saturday, but the Fates, at least, were
kind. Once again punters had a
wondrous good day, with four favor-
ites, three second-favorites and one
third-favorite supplying the eight
winners at Canterbury. There must
be surely a day of reckoning at hand,
and it might be wise policy to touch
the harp very gently in coming weeks.
Proceedings kicked-off with a
couple of Maiden Stakes for two-
year-olds, both of which went to
favorites. The division for fillies went
to Estaminet (F. Hickey), a fine-
looking and aptly-named daughter of
Wayside Inn-Black Art. Evidently
the books were well primed as to
the prospects of Estaminet, who
opened at 9 to 2 and started at
9 to 4; it was her first start, and she
recently finished stone-last in a barrier
trial. Nitrogen (G. Moore) downed
the colts and geldings in the other
Two-year-old Maiden.
To run through briefly the other
results, none of which seemed of
great significance, Carriole (B. Killian)
clocked race-record time of 1.12 to
win the Flying after withstanding a
protest from the runner-up Panto-
mime; Grey Theo (B. Moon) won
the November Handicap (9f.), im-
ported Tesmic (J. Tinson) the first
Ashbury Mixed (6f.), Miss Pacific
(G. Moore) the second Ashbury,
Revenue (W. Bliss) the Earlwood
Mixed (12f.) and McKechnie (F.
Hudson) the Welte r
“What a getaway !”
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances) :
Juvenile Stakes (fillies): Estaminet,
1; Hua Tara, 2; Belle d’Amour, 3.
Juvenile Stakes (colts): Highlea, 1;
Bushwind, 2; Midtide, 3. Maiden
Stakes: Final Act, 1; Lady Rosetta,
2; Kewzami, 3, Burwood Mixed:
Old Jamaica, 1; Revenue, 2; King
Lear, 3. Flying; Field Boy, 1;
Pantomime, 2; Dynamite, 3. Canter-
bury Park Handicap: Karachi, 1;
lolanda, 2; Phil Tress, 3. Welter:
Tartan Girl, 1; Miss Pacific, 2;
Tesmic, 3.
* * * *
If there is one sport especially
which just cannot be played in a
raging gale it is tennis, and the finals
of the Queensland Championships at
Milton, Brisbane, on Saturday, bor-
dered on pure farce. However, in
the singles final Frank Sedgman, who
seems better every time he returns
from a tour abroad, kept his head
and concentrated on doing the best
possible in the circumstances. His
opponent, the visiting American Art
Larsen, on the other hand, simply
did his block, and was roundly
trounced in straight sets, 6-2, 6-4, 6-2.
Sedgman and McGregor beat Larsen
and his compatriot Savitt, 4-6, 6-2,
4-6, 6-4, 6-1, in the doubles.
The Americans, and, of course, the
Australian stars, move on now to
Sydney, where the N.S.W.L.T.A. has
lined up a grand feast of tennis
spread over the next few months.
First item is an inter-State series next
weekend, to be followed the weekend
after by the N.S.W. championships.
After that will come the Country
Carnival, Australian championships
and a series of international matches,
all in January.
♦ * * *
The M.C.C. v. South Australia
match in Adelaide last week looked
all set to finish in a dull draw until,
on the final day, the South Australian
skipper Ridings closed his innings
and left the tourists 105 minutes in
which to score 185 runs for a win.
Brown’s men accepted the challenge
and turned on a feast of fast and
furious batting to score 186 in 85
minutes; M.C.C. by seven wickets.
The Englishmen proceeded then to
tackle Victoria under unpleasant
weather conditions in Melbourne.
Compton took over captaincy of the
M.C.C., and, batting first, declared
with 306 on the board for nine
wickets, The closure left Victoria
to open in poor conditions towards
the end of play on Saturday. How-
ever, openers Meuleman and Howard
survived a few torrid overs and were
still on the job, with four runs to
their credit, at stumps.
* * * *
Ray Lindwall can bowl quite suffi-
ciently fast without the assistance of
a 40-m.-p.-h. gale; given this assist-
ance he was practically unplayable
in the N.S.W. v. Q’land Shield match
at Sydney Cricket Ground on
Saturday. Queensland had begun
moderately well on Friday, when they
scored 165 for four wickets. Then
> came Saturday, Lindwall and the
gale. Lindwall took three for two
off the first three overs he bowled,
and altogether the last six Queens-
land wickets went for 51 runs;
Queensland’s total, 216. N.S.W., in
reply, had lost one for 39 at stumps.
* * * *
Joe Louis’s disastrous attempt to
make a boxing comeback inspired a
“New York Times” writer to recall
some of the records established by
the former champion between win-
ning his title in June, 1937, and
“retiring” undefeated in March,
1949;
“He defended his title more often
—25 times —than any other heavy-
weight champion.
“He scored more knockouts —
21 —than any other heavyweight
champion.
“He held the title a longer time-
-11 years, eight months and eight
days—than anyone else.
“He won the shortest champion-
ship fight in history—when he
knocked out Max Schmeling in 1938
in 2 minutes and 4 seconds of the
first round.”
The “Times” article recalled also
that after seeing Louis win his first
New York fight by knocking out
Primo Camera, their own boxing
writer, James P. Dawson, wrote:
“He has sloping shoulders, power-
ful arms with sinews as tough as
whipcords, and dynamite in his fists
... .Louis has about the most savage,
two-fisted attack of any fighter of
modern times.”
After seeing Louis’s regrettable last
fight, the same writer said:
“Joe was punched around the ring
as if he were an inanimate punching-
bag he wanted to do things
he wanted to block, dodge and
strike with lightning-like speed and
with savage finality, but he never
quite could do it.”


w
•ffIKL
«T 4«
«M*»jSSS.
\3D\v\c-Vv *'
tDow
e< plains
' . how on l-STS
toil how p e nny P
whi ch
oo yer 0 ° 9 con
sh®®P
in de p >- on*
ed
VANVtt®’
■MetW
utn®’
A
H 6
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Don’t Blame the Dip.
Ideal time to dip
would be straight off the shear-
ing-board (B. 1/11/ ’50). It
would save a muster, ensure
that every shorn sheep went
through the dip and make cer-
tain that no ticks or lice were
taken back to the paddock. But
too many dangers are attendant
on dipping freshly-shorn sheep,
and every reliable dip-container
carries a warning that sheep
should not be dipped until shear-
ing cuts heal or at least dry up.
The greatest fallacy that exists
in the minds of sheepmen is
that dips are potent antiseptics.
Of all the dips the phenylic
types have the greatest disinfect-
ant properties, although not
necessarily the best insecticides,
but even the best of these is
hopelessly inefficient against
some of the wogs that hatch out
in a dip which has been used for
a week in warm weather and is
full of wool-grease, scum and
droppings.
Outbreaks of post - dipping
lameness in sheep have forced
manufacturers to incorporate a
disinfectant to control that par-
ticular wog or to advocate the
addition of bluestone or phenyl
to keep it in check. But the bac-
teria that cause blood-poisoning
and gas-gangrene, and fill sores
with pus, are to be found in
many dipping-baths which have
been used or left standing for
days, and to kill these wogs
would demand an antiseptic so
strong that it would probably
kill every sheep put through it.
A dirty dip will infect un-
healed wounds and will also
leave that ugly “dip stain” in
the wool. Therefore it pays to
discard the dipping fluid at the
end of every second day’s dip-
ping with a swim dip and at the
end of every day with a spray
dip. Dipping will not prevent
bacterial or fungicidal diseases
like fleece-rot and mycotic der-
matitis, although by adding
sufficient bluestone or zinc sul-
phate some protection from the
latter complaint is possible.
Another point to be watched
is that all dips, whether arseni-
cal, phenylic, D.D.T. or B.H.C.,
and whether sold in powder,
paste or liquid form, are all de-
signed for use at the same
strength. The higher the con-
centration of insecticide in the
original package the greater will
be the amount of water required
to dilute it to dipping strength.
While high concentrations are
advantageous in saving freight,
their chief disadvantage is that
they cannot carry as much anti-
septic. Thus a gallon of concen-
trate diluted 1 in 80 would have
greater bactericidal value than
a dip diluted 1 in 1000.
Worms in Sheep.
“Contortus”: “Murrawong”
(B. 18/10/’50) states that when
serious worm-infestation occurs
we should not expect results
from bluestone-arsenic or blue-
stone-nicotine drenches. Last
summer was a very wet one in
our (New England) district, with
consequent heavy worm-infesta-
tions, and I was able to keep the
worms under control and my
sheep healthy by using solely
bluestone-arsenic and A.H.P.
(arsenic and tetrachloride)
drenches.
Neighbors who used solely
phenothiazine at high dosing-
rates had severe worm trouble.
Whilst admitting that pheno-
thiazine is excellent for nodule-
worm, black-scour-worm, hair-
worms, etc., I thing that blue-
stone-arsenic is far superior for
hcemonchus (barber’s - pole-
worm).
I receive most C.5.1.R.0.
bulletins as well as the Aus-
tralian Wool Board’s handbook,
which contains all the latest
C.5.1.R.0. information, and they
certainly don’t quote ostertagia
(small brown stomach-worm) as
an unimportant worm which has
been neglected in the past. In
this district we have dealt with
it for a considerable number of
years and realised that it can be
very harmful under certain con-
ditions.
The double dose of pheno-
thiazine which “Murrawong”
recommends for severe worm-
infestation should be treated
with caution. During the recent
wet winter when worm-infesta-
tion was fairly heavy I dosed
several weaners with 2ioz. of
pheno. to try to effect a quick
cure and killed the lot. A neigh-
bor had similar results using
2oz. I think a better method
would be to use Hoz. at inter-
vals rather than risk the losses,
and this dose-rate seems very
safe.
Phenothiazine is not supposed
to kill under any conditions, but
experience proves that it will,
and the C.5.1.R.0. has recom-
mended 2oz. as the highest dose
to be given. I personally think
that phenothiazine, even in in-
creased doses, is overrated,
especially against the hcemon-
chus worm, although still very
efficient against nodule-worm,
black-scour-worms, etc.
What we do need during these
wet seasons is investigation by
C.5.1.R.0. into the effects of
large lung-worms, which cause
a lot of trouble to weaners.
Freedom from other worms and
nourishing green-feed is cer-
tainly a big help, but during
wet winter conditions no feed
has sufficient nourishment, as
proved by weaner losses in this
area. The windpipe injection is
only moderately successful and
does not prevent reinfestation.
Turkeys Will Pay.
“Rooster”: Especially if you
can hit the Christmas market.
They prefer warm climates.
Essential factors are sound,
healthy breeding stock and care-
ful feeding and management of
young birds. The American
Bronzewing does well in Vic-
toria and N.S.W. Try mating
six hens of average weight (161 b.
to 181 b.) which are in their
second season with a certified
gobbler not less than a year
old, preferably with a medium-
weight (241 b. to 321 b.).
The male should not be used
for breeding after the second
season. Let the hens select their
own nesting-sites. Gather the
eggs daily, leaving one. When
15 or 16 eggs accumulate find a
cool spot for them and turn
them daily. The turkey hen is
a patient sitter, and eggs will
hatch normally in about 28 days.
Young turkey chicks can be
fed in the same way as ordinary
chickens. Allow them to fast
for 36 hours after hatching,
then provide drinking-water and
either chicken-grain mixture or
rolled oats for the next two
days. From then on a moist
mash, not too stiff, can be given
three or four times daily, with
kibbled grain mixture as an
evening meal. A good wet mash
results from pollard (two parts
by weight) and bran (one part),
mixed with hot skim-milk or 5
to 7 per cent, milk-powder dis-
solved in water. Dissolve loz.
of salt to each 51b. of mash
weighed dry. Add 2 per cent,
of bonemeal to the mash until
the birds are five to six weeks
old, then replace it with 5 per
cent, meatmeal.
If there is a large run with
ample insect life available the
“Now, who takes milk ?”
meatmeal need not be used. A
supply of green-feed and shell-
grit is always necessary. If there
is a lack of green-feed make it
good by adding a vitamin A sub-
stitute to the mash. Fish-liver
oil or emulsion is ideal.
A Talk on Pigs.
“Archaps”: Josiah Swain, a
Smithfield (London) wholesale
meat-trader visiting Australia,
told a Queensland Pig Society
that if trade were free all meat
from Australia would make very
much higher prices. But in buy-
ing the British Food Ministry
was not so much impressed by
quality as by political expedi-
ency.
Current prices being paid by
the Food Ministry were due to
bulk buying. Swain said that be-
fore the war he considered Aus-
tralian and New Zealand pigs
some of the best in the world,
but he was afraid they were now
mostly too fat. Grading pigs
and paying (say) 18d. per lb. for
high quality and Bd. or lOd. per
lb. for poor quality might be one
way of getting more pigs, and
pigs which did not carry excess
fat.
Urging Australian pig-breeders
to give more support to carcass
competitions, Swain said he had
been amazed at the support given
such competitions by N.Z.
farmers. When he was in N.Z.
in June and July he attended
three field days run in connec-
tion with bacon-carcass com-
petitions—in the Napier, Tara-
naki and Westfield districts re-
spectively. At the Napier field-
day there were 800 carcasses and
300 people; at Taranaki, 1700
carcasses and 500 people ; and at
Westfield 3140 carcasses and
about 1000 people. All that had
been accomplished by one organ-
iser.
Pastoral Trees.
“Bill C.”; The Queensland
Agricultural Botanist recom-
mends kurrajong, myall, river-
gum and bottle-trees for plant-
ing in pastoral districts. These
natives are hardy and easy to
establish.
However, the ideal soil for
the myall appears to be a clay
type, whereas the kurrajong is
usually more successful on light
sands. Though slow beginners,
these trees speed up in growth
with age.
The river-gum is useful as an
erosion-stopper near streams,
and may be propagated on most
inland soils. It grows fairly fast
if stock are prevented from eat-
ing its early growth.
The green-barked bottle-tree
can be successfully transplanted
from one spot to another when
quite tall. Trees up to 15ft. high
have been moved by digging a
trench 2ft. to 3ft. deep beneath
the base of the tree from a point
3ft. away. The tap-root is
severed, but as much soil as pos-
sible should be left about it.
Pruning the limbs short and re-
setting the tree firmly in a
spacious hole will help to en-
sure growth.
Tractor Hints.
“Big Billy”: Points to bear in
mind in the safe handling of a
tractor: keep the speed down
when ploughing stony or
stumpy ground where rabbit-
burrows may cause a wheel to
sink ; engage a low gear before
going downhill where the load
has any chance of taking con-
trol, because once a tractor has
gained momentum it is impos-
sible to engage lower gears;
apply brakes evenly at all times,
especially when working on a
greasy surface or wet grass.
Engage clutch gradually to pre-
vent rearing (important when
front wheels are on a higher
level than rear ones); jump off
toward the uphill side, where
most clearance is available,
should the outfit get out of
control.
Tomato Seedlings.
“Hortus”: Many growers are
experiencing losses in the seed-
frames from Irish blight, “damp-
ing-off” and other fungus
diseases. Failure to keep seed-
bed temperatures comparatively
uniform causes trouble, too.
Don’t plant seeds in soil that
has previously grown tomatoes
or potatoes. Sow in rows
spaced from 4in, to 6in. apart.
The wide planting prevents
growth being too spindly and
soft. See that the seed is set at
uniform depth. Poor germina-
tion is often the result of too-
deep sowing. All vegetable
seeds need to be fairly close to
the surface when the drills are
covered in.
Plants are ready to put out
after the first fern-like leaf has
appeared. Prick out at least Sin.
by Sin. apart. Don’t over-water.
Keep the soil damp, not moist.
Tomato seedlings in their in-
fancy won’t stand “wet feet.”
Water always in the early morn-
ing, not at night.
Give young plants as much
sunshine as possible. White-
wash the back wall of the seed-
bed to reflect the light. This
allows plants to grow upright
rather than lean outwards. Spray
regularly with Bordeaux mixture
at 1-1-20 strength.
Saw-lore.
“Desist”: Hand- and crosscut-
saws should cut smoothly. When
they wobble or jump out of the
cut they need to be hammered
for tension.
A new saw is tight along the
teeth and back and slack in the
middle. Using and bending the
saw reverses the tension. The
middle gets tight, the back and
teeth get slack and cause the
jumping. The tension of circu-
lar-saws is much the same but
more complicated.
Saw-doctors don’t know that
a saw that needs hammering will
jump. Carpenters don’t know
that the jumping saw needs ham-
mering. I alone combine that
knowledge; excuse modesty, I
was a Yank for 18 years. One
more tip: always strip (level-off
the top of the teeth) the blunt
saws before sharpening.
Mudbricks for Houses.
“Bumpkin”: A successful
method of making mudbricks is
as follows: Have a bottomless
mould of not less than 14-
gauge iron 9in. x 15in. x 6in. in
depth. Make an iron-covered
board to fit easily into the top.
Any clay or subsoil that is
not very sandy is suitable —-a
mixture of subsoil and clay is
most suitable. Pure clay is good
if very well soaked and allowed
to dry slowly, but it is sticky to
handle, and the mould must be
washed after every brick.
Puddle-up earth, adding an
armful of straw to each yard of
earth. Thoroughly wet the heap
and leave it soaking for two or
three days; ensure that every
particle is moist. Shovel into
mould, stamp down well, press
down top and smooth with
board, lift mould carefully and
leave the brick to dry in the
sun. It will be ready for use in
a few days. To make mortar,
screen some of the earth through
lin. wire mesh and wet.
Rodents and moisture are the
chief enemies of the mudbrick,
so foundations should be of
stone, concrete or brick, with
a damp-course.
Surface walls with plaster
made from equal quantities of
cowdung and loamy soil. When
wall is quite dry apply two coats
£in. thick with steel float, then
whitewash or kalsomine, adding
any coloring you like. A lime
plaster can be used, but it is not
as adhesive as the dung.
To make whitewash add to
three-quarters of a kero.-tin of
Limil one pint of starch, as for
linen, a quarter-cup of soft soap
dissolved in boiling water, stand
for six hours and then break
down to creamy consistency.
The whitewash is completely
waterproof, and the wall won’t
need another coat for two or


Esdaile’s have a full range of BROADHURST & CLARKSON
TELESCOPES
for Sportsmen, Tourists
or Naturalists.
£l3/4/0
gdf
Illustrated:
Cat. P2Ol, 2-in.
Object Glass, 3
draw, Mag. x 25.
Price includes tax.
g
Body and Drawtubcs
of Bronzed Brass,
covered with Brown
Leather, with Sling
Strap and Leather
Caps to protect tire
Object Glass and
Eye-piece. Several
models to choose
from.
• Also Binoculars,
Telescopic Sights,
Prismatic Compasses,
dfg
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
42 HUNTKR STREET.- SYDNEY.
WSi
-:** '
mJ'
in all directions
with
QUIRK'S
OSCILLATING
ELECTRIC FAN
Operating direct from your lighting plant,
this fan directs a cooling breeze to every
corner of your room. Beautifully finished,
it is silent in operation and is supplied in
32, 50, 110 and 240 volt models. Speed
can be adjusted to suit requirements.
The following appliances, for city and country homes, are
available from Quirk's stocks: Lighting Fixtures, Radios
and Radiograms, Vacuum Cleaners, Floor Polishers, Wash-
ing Machines, Dish Washers, Fans, Kettles, Toasters,
Food and Drink Mixers, Irons, Sirens, Electric Razors.
CONTACT YOUR LOCAL DEALER FOR SUPPLIES OR WRITE TO:
QUIRK’S VICTORY LIGHT CO.
229 Castlereogh St., Sydney .. Phone M 3114
i i WJ/S
✓
until summer is nearly over ,
and swelter day and night
INSULATE
your home NOW with
B.I.SLAGWOOL
No house, home, office or building is modern and entirely
healthy unless it is insulated preferably with BJ,
SLAG WOOL.
dfg
Hi
/
un
Li
TELEPHONES: SYDNEY. MA9311 • MELBOURNE, MU3506
BRISBANE, 83604 * ADELAIDE, 07287 • PERTH. 1.2107
m
JD
El
Dim in
Riliii
|f*i-
■
til
li
lli|
m
||ii
Mi
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modem high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra,
BOOM-ONLY RATES;
Single Rooms—
From 9/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 18/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
"METROPOLE.”
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
"■y. *
V AVIATION SERVICER
v
y...
rtn-'-V'
**»
mini,;
From reindeer to kangaroo—
across the globe you can rely on the unfailing
readiness and efficiency of the BP Aviation Service,
available at airports around the world, including
those of Melbourne and Sydney. Qantas Empire
Airways and Trans-Australia Airlines are amongst
the many national airlines that are regularly
fuelled by this great service, which has behind it
the global resources and reputation of the
Anglo-lranian Oil Company,Ltd.
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., ALL STATES. Tel. Address “AIRBEPEE” MELB.
371-23-6 D
'ftjisaaer
m
M
■s
a
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
three years. The top edges of
the mould should be turned
outwards l£in. to form a lip for
convenience in lifting. Don’t
build a mudbrick structure on
ground liable to flooding.
Tomatoes from Cuttings.
“G.C.8.”: There are adven-
titious roots in tomato-lateral
cuttings that strike almost im-
mediately after being planted.
With care and attention they will
produce ripe fruit.
A few plants of the original
setting could be allowed to grow
lateral shoots. Healthy laterals
should be cut cleanly, planted in
moistened ground alongside
stakes to a depth of about 4in.
and given complete shelter from
the sun’s rays for five or six days
—a little longer as the weather
gets hotter —the ground being
watered meanwhile. Trailing
leaves should be snipped off.
Cylinders of old lino, of suffici-
ent height thrust into the moist
ground, encircling plant and
stake, tilted at a slight angle if
necessary, will afford effective
shelter. Large tins would be
better,
I am now giving particular
attention to a few laterals cut
from a healthy plant that sur-
vived the winter. One already
is in bearing, with five berries
|in. to 2in. in diameter on the
lowest truss. All are making
strong growth and are flowering
on strong trusses. These three,
in their turn, have provided six
laterals which I have planted
out, and they are now well estab-
lished ; tiny buds were visible
on one on the 16th day after
planting.
Hints for the Farm.
“Biro”: As table-birds grow
faster and weigh heavier when
well fed, it is a good idea to
to make them eat more by in-
corporating meat, soup, greens,
etc., with their rations and keep-
ing their mash crumbly to avoid
mushiness and nostril-clogging.
A feed of corn is an added in-
ducement, as well as providing
exercise when scattered.
“Billjim”: Sow onions in
rows Sin. to Sin. wide with 9in.
between them. This avoids
overcrowding and makes weed-
ing and hoeing easier. The crop
does better on hill slopes than
most crops, provided water is
available. Transplant when
about Sin. high Sin. to lOin.
apart. Cut tops about 4in. from
the ground, then push a sharp
spade about iin. below the sur-
face to remove unwanted roots.
This method will save time, but
should not be tried if the surface
is undulating or the ground
stony. Best fertiliser is a mix-
ture of super., ammonia and
blood-and-bone.
“A-Jay”: Cucumbers should
be grown in clusters of two or
three plants, and, with correct
pruning, which consists of re-
stricting the length of the main
vines to encourage laterals, a
considerable yield can be had
from plants kept within a 3ft.-
or 4ft.-diameter circle.
“Inverell”: For the first month
or six weeks of its life a lamb
depends almost entirely on its
mother’s milk. Ewes rearing
twin lambs give considerably
more milk than those rearing
singles, but the two lambs to-
gether soon take all the milk the
ewe can produce. For this rea-
son, ewes with twin lambs
should be grazed separately and
given the best feed available.
“Bat”: When using tartar-
emetic as a spray for fruit-trees
and vegetables, if is not neces-
sary to use a spray-pump. The
poisoned syrup is just as effec-
tive if splashed upon the leaves.
“Sundowner”: Tests by Vic.
Department of Agriculture gave
good results against root-borer
of fruit-trees with D.D.T. How-
ever, as the grubs remain under-
ground for periods up to seven
years, eradication of the pest
may be a long-term proposition.
Spray with 0.1 p.c. of D.D.T.
once in three weeks, at the same
time attaching fly-wire skirts to
tree trunks.


For over 100 years every drop
of Dewar’s Whisky has been
distilled and blended in Scot-
land, by acknowledged Mas-
ters of tbe Art.
Dewar’s famous "White
Label” Scotch Whisky never
varies ... its distinctive char-
acter, mellow flavour and rich,
heart-warming qualities have
made it world renowned.
DEWAR’S
SfasruniA SCOTCH QlJklshu
n , /
Uk ticket ihAicVJ
WAR
M
w med
50 Gold
end
Prize Mefiol*
50 Gold
and
Prize Medaltf
. _Wbite Label v
A Fine Scotch Whiskv
OF RARE AGE.
John Dewar & Sons B
DISTILLE RS
P SCOTLAND
riMo. NET CONTENTS I PINT. 6 FL. OZS. -..uj
WHOLLY DISTILLED. MATURED AND BLENDED IN >o'
■
• J
m
m
m
z
.
i
THE ONLY THING JO
REPLACE IV
BHTWS
LUDOWIGI
LIFETIME
LEATHER
BELTING
df
ON INITIAL COSTS
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
features:-
• "WET-FRAMED" STRETCHED
• UNIFORM QUALITY
• "DEEP WELD" ADHESIVE
• SUPERIOR CO-EFFICIENT
OF FRICTION
• LONG LIFE.
gdf
ON MAINTENANCE
No belting has more proved, practical applications than
PIONEER BELTING, a name famous in Australia for 92
years.
Pioneer Belting often saves money on "initial- costs" and
keeps saving it by providing continuous years of trouble-
free transmission.
The only replacement for Pioneer Belting is more Pioneer
Belting .
g
J. C. LDDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W. 20-26 QUEEN'S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE, VIC.
OTHER LUDOWICI LINES OF EQUIPMENT INCLUDE:— Rubber Belting, Conveyor and EJevator Belting, Round Leather
Belting, Textile Leathers, Belting Accessories, Leather Packings, High-Speed Grinder Belts. V Belt Drives, Industrial
Clutches, Plain Bearings, Anti-Friction Bearings, Steel Shafting, Shafting Couplings, Shafting Hangers,_ Microid Bearing
Metals, Porous Bronze Bushes, Gears, Pulleys, Wall Brackets, Variable-Speed Drives, Ludowici Pivot Drives, Fla-Seal Oil
Retainers, Composition Packings, Lutex Industrial Plastics, Industrial Gloves, Rubber Hose, Lemcol Trucks, Wheels, Castors,
etc., Perry Chain Drives.
But the next moment the
nigger was back, impudently
swinging punches that hurt.
That nigger, or another. He
couldn’t be sure, but he swung
blow for blow, conscious of a
growing anger and surprise that
these niggers didn’t go down like
the first. For there was a flood
of niggers. Out of the corner
of his eye he could see the tall
fair head of the Kiwi, Stan’s
mighty shoulders and the Maori
footballer, who must have had a
head of oak, battling like an en-
raged bull. He was also
conscious of sharp, prickling sen-
sations that vaguely puzzled him.
It was a beautiful brawl.
Some of the negroes began to
throw bottles, and in a twink-
ling the air was raining broken
glass and sticky liquid. The big
mirror behind the bar was
shattered, chairs and tables were
raised and brought crashing
down on heads with an apparent
total lack of discrimination, and
the dark Egyptian popped up
from behind the bar, where he
had wisely crouched, raised his
skinny brown arms and wailed
“Black man no good,” in an
agony of protest. It was a
foolish thing to do, A negro
hit him over the head with a
bottle of liqueur and he slumped
back into voicelessness.
At one stage Desmond found
himself curled up like a porcu-
pine at the lee of the bar with
a forest of fighting legs about
him. Someone pulled him to his
feet, and he saw that the battle
had spread across the floor. The
Africa Bar had huge white pil-
lars that gave it something of
the appearance of a decrepit
Moorish palace, and behind one
of these architectural ambushes
lurked Stan. Every now and
again, as the tide of conflict
brought a negro near, Stan’s
huge arm shot out, drew a negro
to him like a crane and the big
fist connected with a black face
in a short stabbing punch.
Desmond lost all sense of
time and position when he went
down the second time. Stan and
Jimmy dragged him from be-
neath the trampling boots and
half-carried him back towards
the side entrance of the cafe.
There was a general withdrawal
of the white forces. But the
negroes did not press their ad-
vantage. Instead, they took up
a position by the bar and shat-
tered mirrors throwing bottles.
Desmond wondered where all
the bottles came from. The
Maori was leading the spear-
head of a counter - attack,
crouched behind a stool which
he used as a shield, catching
bottles most cleverly. Exactly,
Desmond thought, like a wild-
west picture.
STAN still gripped Desmond’s
arm in his great vice of a
hand. “Hell,” he said suddenly,
“where did all that blood come
from?”
Desmond looked down and
dully perceived blood on his
shirt—a great deal of blood.
There was blood on his shorts,
too, and both shirt and shorts
were slashed and cut.
“A razor,” rumbled Stan
grimly, “So that’s it, eh?”
Desmond shook his head, and
the movement seemed to clear
it. This was child’s play—but
he knew what he had to do. He
looked around him for the in-
strument he needed, and for the
first time saw the Tommy M.P.
lounging in a corner with folded
arms watching the affray with a
calm and philosophic eye. Des-
mond walked over to him.
“Lend me your revolver,
please,” he said, extending his
hand. He felt perfectly calm.
The M.P. shook his red cap.
“Sorry, choom. Can’t do it.”
“Come on,” Desmond said
impatiently. “Don’t be silly.
Give it to me.”
The M.P. said pleasantly
“You don’t understand, Aussie.
I’d give it to you—only I can’t.
Haven’t got one. New order
came out. Silly order. Yanks
have ’em, but we can’t. It’s not
fair.”
“Oh.” Desmond turned to
look at the negroes, lined up so
invitingly against the bar. “Actu-
ally, a tommy-gun’d be better.
Get the lot. Great things for
a pub brawl, tommy-guns, I
believe.”
“I’ve rung up for the town
picquet,” the M.P. said. “See if
you can keep the niggers here
till they come, will you, Aussie?
Anyway,” he added, nodding
solemnly, “you boys go right
ahead. You’ve got my moral
support.”
“I think they’re going,” Des-
mond said. The negroes were
slowly backing out, past the
blackout curtain. One, as a ges-
ture of final defiance, came back
and hurled a bottle at the
Egyptian proprietor, who was
getting shakily to his feet.
“A pity,” said the M.P. regret-
fully- • . , -
The town picquet arrived a few
minutes later, commanded by a
young Scot in tartan trousers.
He was affable, and took the
combatants up to an Army hos-
pital to have their wounds
dressed.
WHEN they arrived back at
the Greek pension Stan
broached a bottle of cognac.
“Y’ know,” he rumbled
pleasantly, “I believe you would
have shot those niggers.
Desmond stared at him. He
scowled. „ T
“That’s right,” he said. I
would have shot them.” #
He looked faintly surprised.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSONZ
C(SUUJV\If
i-v man j
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
•TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•jACKSUL.” BRISBANE
TOBACCO
Pall Mall 70/10
Rothman’s De Luxe . , 78/1J
Martins 70/10
Consulate (Filter) .. 70/10
Mills Filtertips 75/
Other brands
quoted upon application.
All country orders, large or small,
given prompt and careful attention.
Registration to be added to all prices.
A. T. Nelson Successors
106 Burwood Road,
Burwood, N.S.W.
Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK JOHN SMITH late of
95 Cascade Street Katoomba.—TAKE
NOTICE that ROSALIE ELLEN SMITH
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1564
of 1950 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 16th day of January 1951 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from M. B. GILES, Solicitor, of
No. 29 Bligh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO YICTOR MAXWELL FOSTER late
of Cootamundra.—TAKE NOTICE that
GRAOIE OLGA FOSTER has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2697 of 1950 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 16th
January 1951 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from N. C.
ROWLES & TOWNSHEND, Solicitors,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN~THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERIC BYRNES late of Coogee.—TAKE
NOTICE that ETHEL VICTORIA
BYRNES has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2691 of 1950 on the ground of de-
sertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
In the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 18th of January
1951 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from A. J. P. HALL &
HALL, Solicitors, 44 Martin Place, Syd-
ney—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar. 1
HOW MUCH
WILL [El] PAY
TO AVERT
WORLD WAR III?
If by working a little harder and a
lot better —
If by saving all the money you could
and lending your savings to your
country —
If by joining one of the armed
services for full or part-time
service —
—Youy in common with all loyal
Australians, could help avert World
War ///
Would You?
Of course you would!
If 8,000,000 Australians all cheerfully
and willingly work and pull together
to make Australia strong, the result
will be a national effort of tremendous
proportions.
If Australia and all the free demo-
cratic nations of the world demonstrate
their combined strength and their
willingness and ability to combat
aggression wherever it may arise, there
will be no World War 111.
There is no question as to who will
help. All must help—in one or more
of these ways:—
Every one of us who is physically able
must make some personal contribution
to the armed services by participation
in one of the services on a full or part-
time basis. A vastly increased flow of
men and women into the armed forces
is an immediate need. Our permanent
Navy, Army and Air Force urgently
require the enlistment of men of
military age for full-time duty. Our
forces also need recruits for part-time
service and for their reserves.
We must all work harder so that we
can produce more goods to meet
ever-expanding service and civilian
demands. By greater production, we
will help to stabilise prices and steady
our economy against inflation.
There must be complete national unity
in these problems. Employers and
employees have a common interest in
the greatest possible measure of pre-
paredness in Australia. Much will
depend upon the efforts of all men of
goodwill to demonstrate their faith in
Australia and its future, by the speedy
strengthening of our armed forces and
by the greatest possible increase in
production. Preparedness for war is
the best safeguard of peace.
What we do over the next few years
will determine the
fate and future of Australia
H& uS I? ma JLna!
Issued by the Government of the Commonwealth of Anstraha,
DR3B.ll3JtiO
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy photographs of Australian
circuses and past and present Aus-
tralian circus performers.—4944.
Copy of poem “Bendt’s Sermon”
by Arthur Conan Doyle.—4945.
Words of verse the last stanza of
which is: —
But rum-soaked, gin-full, sinful men
Live mostly three score years and 1 ten.
All except the mighty few
Who stay pickled till they’re ninety-two.
—4946.
Information Sought.
How are delegates from a N.S.W.
shire council elected to a county
council? What is the system of
voting employed? Is it necessary
for a councillor to use his second
preference when voting?
Ordinance 20, clause 3 (0, made
under the N.S.W. Local Government
Act, says that the elections shall be
held for county-council delegates in
the manner prescribed by ordinance
2 for mayors and presidents. The
relevant provisions of ordinance 2 are
contained in clause 5 (e) and (/).
These provide that where a candidate
receives more first-preference votes
than one half, he shall be elected;
if not, the candidate with the lowest
number of votes shall be eliminated
and his second-preference votes dis-
tributed, and so on until a candidate
has more than half the votes cast.
There is no procedure set out in the
ordinance covering the election of
more than one on the preferential
system, but the normal procedure is
that when one is elected to redistribute
his second-preference votes and pro-
ceed in the same manner as before.
It is necessary to utilise the second-
preference votes of the elected candi-
dates for the reason that under the
preferential system of voting each
elector is, in effect, voting for one,
two or three candidates, according to
the number of those to be elected.
* * * *
Is there any difference in meaning
between “apt to” and “liable to” ?
Yes, although their meaning is very
similar. “Apt to” means “having an
inherent (and usually unfortunate)
tendency” and “liable to” means
“exposed to a risk.” “Trouble is apt
to occur” —“trouble (has an unfor-
tunate tendency) to occur.” Similarly
“Promises are apt to be broken.”
But it is “we are liable to be over-
heard,” when a misfortune will befall
us as a result. Again, “The prisoners
are liable to be punished if they try
to escape.” “Likely” is the word to
use if there is nothing detrimental in
the outcome —“I am likely to win the
prize.”
* * * ♦
Some details about the Military
Medal?
It was instituted by royal warrant
in March, 1916, for award to non-
commissioned officers and men of the
British forces for bravery'in the field.
Women (whether subjects or foreign
persons) were made eligible by a latter
warrant, but only on the special
recommendation of a commander-in-
chief for bravery and devotion under
fire. The Military Medal is a silver
medal, bearing the royal effigy on the
obverse and, on the reverse, the
words “For Bravery in the Field,”
encircled by a wreath surmounted by
the royal cipher and crown.
* •* *
When did Filipino boxer Cabanello
Dencio visit Australia, and whom did
he meet? When did he die?
Dencio visited Australia in 1921.
he had four contests here. Eugene
Criqui k.o.’d him (round 14) on
March 19. Dencio k.o.’d Joe Sym-
monds (round 5) on April 30, and
Sid Godfrey knocked him out in
round 17 on May 14. These con-
tests took place at Sydney Stadium,
and Dencio’s death came after he
collapsed in round 14 of his match
with Bert McCarthy at Melbourne
Stadium on July 2, 1921.
* * * ♦
How to remove smoke-stains from
brickwork ?
The following procedure can be
recommended: (1) Scour with pow-
dered pumice or a grit scrubbing-
powder to remove the surface deposit.
(2) Then make up the following
solution: 21b. of Tri-sodium-phos-
phate in one gallon hot water. (3)
To 12oz. chlorinated lime add suffi-
cient water to obtain a paste (mash
the lumps). Use enamelled or
earthenware pan (no metal). (4)
Pour this paste, together with the
solution (paragraph 2), into a stone-
ware jar and fill with water to two
gallons. Stir well, cover, and allow
the lime to settle. (5) For use, add
some of the liquid (paragraph 4) to
powdered talc until a thick paste is
obtained. Saturate several layers of
flannel with the paste and press
against stains, fixing the cloth with
glass pane or concrete slab. Repeat
treatment as many times as necessary.
Avoid contact of liquid and paste with
any metal.
Brief Answers.
N.M.: “F.0.b.” is an abbrevia-
tion for “free on board,” used in
contracts for the sale of goods to
denote that costs of carriage and
delivery of the goods on board ship
must be paid by the seller
A.McN.: “Fair Rosamond” was
Rosamond Clifford, the mistress of
Henry II of England. Popular legend
has it that she was held in a secret
tower at Woodstock, in the heart of
a labyrinth which only the king could
tread-...W.M.D.: A duet in music
denotcs a composition designed for
two singers or two players. The
term is not properly applied to a
; i form / d by one instru .
mentalist and one singer, for it is
likely that the former will play a
subordinate part, i.c., an accompanist.
Duets may be written for different or
similar instruments R.McL.: The
George Cross is intended primarily
f° r civilians, and awards to the
fighting services are confined to
actions for which purely military
honors are not normally granted. It
™ awarded only for acts of the
greatest heroism or of the most con-
spicuous courage in circumstances of
arrnuftected. B unde*r’
Protection Act, and therefore no
«SS
retary, Melbourne Bread and Cheese
» **, ’altemTont
membershin of'the ted of tmftees
wou jd have to be referred to the
by
the (Tovemor-in-rniinril The hoard
not have to caff a
ot trustees does not nave to call a
public meeting. It can accept a
resignation and elect one of its own
members to the presidency at its own
meet ings, but if it wants an outside
man it must recommend him to the
Board of Health, which refers him
to the Govemor-m-Council for con-
firmation R.E.: Write Secretary,
Dept, of the Navy, Canberra, A.C.T.
W.J.C.: No disease by name in
question. Possibly a reference to
breaking-down of red matter in
blood-cells. This is a hereditary
complaint. Certain terms in psychiatry
are similar....W.A.: Jack Dempsey
and Georges Carpcntier fought in
Jersey City (U.S.A.) on July 2, 1921.
Dempsey knocked out Carpcntier m
round four. ThU contest attracted the
Tex Rickards million-dollar
p tes > the gross receipts amounting
to 51,626,580...-D.G.: James J.
Jf™® 8 , was o°m at CarToU, Ohio
W.5.A.), , j on Aprd 15, 1875, so was
years oia wnen nc won tne woua s
neavyweigm cnampionsnip by Knock-
in S out Bob Fitzsimmons m u
rounds at Coney Island, N.Y.
(U-S.A) on June 9, Fite-
auum 14 Vetkin
on June 4, 1862, was then 36 years
°
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
nJZZZL
ih*
levhL
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
H.L.J.: We’ve had our fill of
stories about lost weekends....
C.W.M.: It nearly hit the target.
V. 8.: Try again E.K.K.: Not
letting the sliprails down for “The
Squatter” J.G.: Will be pleased
to look at some further samples
W.F.: No space in our orchard for
your cherry-tree... .W.S.: “King
Potato” tumbled into the basket.
~. .Bellerive: Twinkle away:-
: Next time you’re too tired
t o sleep try counting sheep instead
of writing verse L.H.H.: It travels
a bumpy and uneven road....
c.E.N.: To employ a line of your
own: Th® task ahead is long and
hard”... .F.L.H.: No resting-place at
252 for that swaggie.
fa now iooling-ofl in the°w.p.b y °"..
lo s nU ame aib h m -p |eces m.w.:
Could anyone resist those charms?
J* “V T* *** **l
dlvu^ 1 oa , th .. c0u1d....
H V Vers ® dedicated to Mr.
gSf°who" hispid‘ a ST'S
f wno nas ceyisea a system ot
long ’ r ? ng ® weather forecasting,” was
a washout P.R.: Not at home to
“Not at Home”... .H.W.: We can
snare snace for four lines-
YoumaTtrLl o’er ?hV™ KPaa
i n B eS of high adventures
But you’ve to come back to a tele-
phone-booth
For the smell ot human dentures.
W. 8.: Seriously thinking of
taking an insurance policy out against
that class of rain-verse
Under God’s control
Of darkness and light
Shine the bright stars.
The stars of the night,
As the years prevail
B le,«
Under God’s controlf
The heavenly orbs of
The for ever and aye
Beaming above us
Time passes away.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
The East
This Singapore sector of S.-E. Asia
is a community which is quite con-
vinced of its ability to run its own
affairs without European intervention.
The other day at one of our busiest
suburban bus terminals a youth boarded
a waiting bus, stuck a gun in the side of
a Chinese schools-inspector who was sit-
ting there and pulled the trigger. He
then left the bus in a much more orderly
manner than the other passengers and
walked away. Had it not been for the
presence of an English lass, too ignorant
of local customs to know what she was
doing but fortunately trained as a nurse,
that wounded man would have died. The
gunman? Nobody saw him or knew any-
thing about him.
A kid fell into one of the stinking
sewers which are misnamed “rivers” in
the heart of the city, and drowned in
front of his mother and half a dozen
Asians who ignored her appeals. Know-
ing something of those “rivers” I don’t
altogether blame them.
There’s been a spate of arson, with
buses and taxis the victims. One taxi-
wallah was pushed out of his car and
his hands bound while the lads poured
petrol over the vehicle and set the fire
going. The driver wandered out on to
the road and boarded a bus still tied-up.
Nobody would untie him. The conductor
went so far as to reach into the bound
man’s pocket to get the fare, and he stayed
bound until he reached the nearest police-
station.
Another bus, carrying some 20 naval-
base laborers, was boarded early in the
morning by gunmen, who told the driver
to stop, and when he, thinking it a joke,
told them over his shoulder not to play
about, shot him dead, took all the
identity-cards and left.
A few days back a Malay traffic-
policeman was on duty outside a convent
ready to do his daily job of escorting
the kids across the busy street. He was
shot in the stomach and his gun taken,
after which his assailants, two youths,
mounted their bicycles and rode off
unmolested.
If you can grasp the type of mentality
behind these things you will have an idea
of the problems we’re up against in S.-E.
Asia. — Transporticus (Singapore).
Costs and Wages
Simple arithmetic is all that is neces-
sary to get at “Labor’s” part in pushing
prices to inflationary levels.
There are nine public holidays a year
that must be paid for, and the law (in
N.S.W.) says all staff must get 10 clear
working days a year as annual holidays—
paid for, of course. Sick-pay awards pro-
vide for at least five additional days a
year, paid for. In all, 24 days a year—
four weeks and four days unproductive
time paid for as part of the wage costs
of industry. That doubles up as over-
heads when applied to salary-earners and
office staffs. The sum total is, of course,
a charge on the consumer.
Then there are the morning- and/or
afternoon-tea breaks, and the 10-minute
wash period before knock-off —in all
about half an hour a day, or nearly three
days a year unproductive time, paid for.
That brings the total to five weeks and
two days a year, paid for but not worked.
To that lost time must be added the
slow-down introduced by the quota
system organised and practised by the
workers themselves. Production is limited
to an average number of units per man,
and he sees to it that he doesn’t
exceed the maximum. If he doesn’t
see to it, his workmates do. The
fast workers slow down to the
pace of the slow man, or, as in
some factories on shift-work, the men
work flat-out for six hours, produce their
quota for the shift, then play poker for
the remaining two hours. Staff objec-
tions are defied and the unions back the
man —the fiat is: limited production or
none at all.
Single prices are fixed on costs, as dis-
closed by the books ; the consumer pays
for the waste time. Costs are built up
unnecessarily right down the chain of
industry’s requirements. Each producer-
loads his production with the inflated
costs of his necessary supplies and plant.
The basic-wage rises every quarter, the
cost of unproductive time rises accord-
ingly, extra margins have to be added
over and above the actual wage-increase
on productive time. To that must be
added the payroll tax payable on all
wages and salaries (including directors’
fees), holiday pay and sick pay. Each
rise in the basic-wage increases the tax,
and additional margins are imposed on
the price to the consumer.
As well as all these items there is the
inflated price of the materials the factory
processes and the free time for which, in
his turn, the retailer must pay his staff.
The ultimate consumer, the workingman,
pays dearly for his easy working condi-
tions.
Price-control without equal control
over wages and conditions of work could
only result in the closing of many fac-
tories. No business, not even Govern-
ment enterprises, can run long at a loss.
The answer lies in high turnover. An
analysis of many balance-sheets will dis-
close net profits as low as sixpence in the
pound. But if, as in some cases, turnover
runs into millions a year, the aggregate
profit on capital subscribed seems
high. Most manufacturing businesses
turn over their capital two or three times
a year. Given a capital of £20,000 and
a turnover of £60,000, a profit of per
cent, on turnover gives a return of 7 %
per cent, on capital. The point to re-
member is, however, that the costing to
return 2 i per cent, means very careful
management. Sixpence in the pound is a
very small margin. It means that the
difference between profit and loss on four
“They Were off the Wife's hat.”
hours’ work is whether or not, in that
time, one worker sneaks five minutes off
for a quiet smoke. That five minutes
cos t s sixpence in wages and overheads,
Only high production per man can
make possible a reduction in price. Only
maximum output will make possible a
continuance of the paid-for amenities and
privileges Australian workers now enjoy,
And directors and executives could apply
themselves more closely to the business
anc f j 0 f,s. The Australian worker likes to
f ee l his boss is on the job with him, not
necessarily at a bench, but at least attend-
j ng to business.—J. Henry (N.S.W.).
Medieval Guilds
,
Robert Howie refers to the medieva
Sudds as organs of te ™ , ~s R
* n commercial h. y ( •
30/8/ 50), and he is • ,
those old craftsmen, m - ...
and merchants do their job of providing
food clothes and shelter for the com-
rnumty that all han i V
a hundred holidays
nant wer . e th e y that f Y P
was a crime, and medieval workers even
tost ears tor it ,
On the whole they made England
“Merrie England,” and at the same time
built to such good purpose that their
constructions not only lasted hundreds ot
years, but seem to have stood up to
Hitler’s bombings a little better than the
later efforts. They had an advantage that
no interest was paid. Usury was for-
bidden, doubtless from the climate of
opinion arising from the very powerful
church in those days,
Their Just Price would also tend to
put commerce in its proper place. It
was arrived at by computing selling-price
at three times the cost of the raw
materials. The principle was extant up
to a hundred years ago, being taught in
the Bluecoat Schools. My grandfather
went to one, and when he came out to
South Australia in the 1840’s he worked
at his trade of basketmaking, as well as
doing some pioneering.
The baskets and chairs he made were
priced at three times the amount he paid
the local lads for gathering osiers from
the banks of near-by streams. One of
the chairs he made is still in use in Bun-
bury and it is a very stagnant piece of
commerce, lasting so long compared with
some modern manufactures.
I’m not claiming perfection for the old
guilds, but the men of that period seem
to have had some virtue which we have
lost. — Perseverando (W.A.).
Ambon
Amboina (B. l/11/’5O) is a small
island, heavily populated, and for genera-
tions the young people have found work
outside with the Dutch Government
Administration in bank and business
offices, in shipping-lines and as soldiers
in the Dutch Indies Army. In fact, they
formed the core of this army, and, be-
cause of that, together with their religion
and their deep loyalty towards the Dutch
Crown, they were disliked by the other
Indonesian races. After the defeat of
the Japs, the Ambonese soldiers played
a big part in fighting the terrorists in
Java and found themselves rewarded by
having war declared upon them by the
Javanese Moslem group.
The Federal Republic of Indonesia,
comprising the Rep. Djocjakarta
(Middle and East Java), Rep. Pasundan
(Western Java), Rep. South and East
Sumatra, Rep. Borneo and Rep. East
Indonesia (Celebes, Moluccas and
Ambon), gained independence in January,
1950. In accord with the agreement the
Dutch started to withdraw and repatriate
their armed forces. Suddenly there was
news about the “Westerling affair” in
February, 1950, after which the Rep.
Pasundan and Rep. Borneo were taken
into the Rep. Indonesia (Djocjakarta)
without further delay and their respective
leaders imprisoned. May, 1950, brought
news about the “Macassar uprising.”
There were troop-landings, and the Rep.
East Indonesia ceased to exist, and its
leaders were imprisoned and the territory
claimed as part of the Republic Indonesia
—the word “Federal” had been dropped.
Amboina’s people thereupon pro-
claimed the Republic of the South
Moluccas. In a certain kind of Govern-
ment such things are intolerable, so Indo-
nesian troops have moved in.
The map shows Amboina between
Northern Australia and Western New
Guinea. The status of Western New
Guinea has still to be decided upon
peacefully, between the Dutch and the
Indonesian Government, although one
party has made its point of view on the
matter quite clear with “New Guinea
must return to our fold,” “We will fight
for New Guinea” and “New Guinea be-
longs to us”
Amboina has appealed for help but
doesn’t seem to have been heard. It
differs from Korea in size and distance,
but the principles involved are the same.
—Dayboy (Q.).
Music
Except for free concerts given in the
city and suburbs now and then, Sydney
music-lovers on slender incomes, pen-
sioners in particular, unless they own
wireless-sets, have had to content
themselves with films based on the lives
of the great composers or having as their
subject-matter music in some form or
other.
Years ago, concerts termed “popular”
and dubbed “pops” by the thousands who
regularly flocked to them assuredly
deserved the appellation, for they provided
patrons with a feast of the lighter kind
of music at admission prices within the
reach of everybody. Old-timers who are,
or were, musical enthusiasts will re-
member in particular the many concerts
given in the Sydney Town Hall by tenor
Philip Newberry and associate artists
prominent in those days.
Another benefit the “pops” conferred
on the community was that they afforded
young singers and instrumentalists an
opportunity of making public appearances
and thus attaining professional status.:
There was, of course, no entertainment-
tax then. Under present conditions any
such ventures would not, unless sub-
sidised, be at all likely to last.
The Society of Recorded Music has,
however, come to the rescue of the
of the musically starved. Its recitals are
held on Saturday evenings at the
Y.M.C.A. building, Pitt-street, and there
is no charge for admission to them. By
enabling those who otherwise would have
little or no chance of doing so to listen
to celebrity recordings of the best in
music, vocal and instrumental, and by
supplying them with annotated pro-
grammes as well, the society has in-
augurated a form of cultural activity one
would like to see spread through the
suburbs and to country towns. — Midge
(N.S.W.).
Public-opinion Polls
In his attack on public-opinion polls,
“Economist” (B. 20/9/’5O) admits they
are accurate on elections and referenda,
but has qualms on social issues.
The Gallup poll sets out to get the
views of “the man in the street.” If the
interviewer is rambling or ignorant the
interview is speedily terminated.
Regarding “uninformed people,” my
experience proves that they are non-
committal —in which case they are
“ticked” as “unacquainted.” As for
“snap” decisions, some interviews occupy
from 15 to 20 minutes, so there’s ample
time to think. It should be realised that
most queries deal with “newsy” subjects
and have been debated in Parliament, or
been discussed in the papers.
Christopher Hollis, M.P., is not the only
person to attack them, but in this he has
strange bedfellows —the Marxists also
detest them. —A. D. (S-A.)*
Soldiers* Gear
“Peter Mike” (B. 13/9/’5O) classes the
bayonet as “the attacker’s most potent
weapon” and that view is still held in
some well-informed quarters ; but isn’t it
outdated?
How many soldiers in either of the
world wars can say that they used the
bayonet effectively or decisively? Granted
that there were bayonet charges—and
they were far fewer in 1939-45 —how often
was the steel necessary, or used? Each
charge was preceded by a barrage which
subdued the defence and reduced it to
a condition in which it could offer little
effective resistance. In cases where the
bombardment failed in its purpose, would
not the defenders, armed with short-range
automatic weapons, and able to use them,
prove more than a match for the most
aggressive bayoneteers?
Automatic weapons, as “P.M.” says,
can be wasteful of ammunition. But men
can be trained to conserve ammo and to
appreciate its value. If a man can’t be
thus trained he’s useless for other than
cookhouse duties in a modern army, and
he’s better out of it. In close warfare
I’ll back 20 well-handled Owen guns
against 50 well-handled bayonets.
In possibly the best planned, and one
of the most successful, close-quarter
operations in the last war —the German
invasion of Crete —neither rifles nor
bayonets were used. Those paratroops
were armed with automatics, grenades and
knives, and if they had any difficulties
with their ammunition supplies it wasn’t
noticeable to the defenders. Admittedly
those troops had been trained for 10
years—they were Goering’s pets —and the
organisation was perfect. But so must
ours be. There’s no place in modern
warfare for anything else.
I wouldn’t dispense with the rifle, by
any means, and where it’s used I’d equip
it with the bayonet. But I think a better
balance could be struck between it and
automatic weapons. One rifle, say, to
each section, the rifleman to act as the
section’s protection in the medium dis-
tances at times when the use of the
Bren is unwarranted.
The days of trench warfare, where the
rifle was unbeatable, are gone. The era
of ray-guns is still around the comer.
In this intermediate stage we’ve got to
do a little compromising, with the accent
on keeping up to date. Kelmscott
(WA.).


An Ideal Christmas Gift Book ...
SYDNEY ILLUSTRATED
(1842-1843)
by J. Skinner Front, and letterpress description by
John Rae, with 14 coloured plates, two portraits and
illustrations of the original title and wrappers.
A very finely produced work, beautifully printed. The plates arc
reproduced from the Artist’s own copy, specially coloured, the originals
being lithographed in Hobart or Sydney in 1842 and 1843. EdiUon
limited to 750 copies.
TYRRELL’S PTY. LTD., Publishers, 281 George Street, Sydney
DYMOCK’S CATALOGUE
of New and Recent Books
includes Books for the Whole Family
Send for our latest Catalogue, it has an excellent selection of
Books listed. 32 Pages of interest to the Discriminating Reader.
For your convenience our Catalogue is now published each
month. Ask to have your name placed on our Mailing List.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.,
424 George Street, Sydney. Phone 8L3611.
Not a dry anthropological treatise,
BROWN MEN AND RED SAND
By Charles P. Mountford
is a delightfully written and sympathetic account of an often misunderstood
race—the aborigines of Central Australia. The author takes us back to
the remote past of Australia and lets us share the daily life of these Stone Age
people. •
Mr. Mountford’s own brilliant photos—66 full-page plates—are a delightful
feature of the book. 17/6 (postage 6d.).
ROBERTSON & MULLENS LTD.
107-113 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
A. J. Cronin writes of GEORDIE
I fell upon “Geordie” with the hunger of one who for fourteen
years has not put foot upon his native heath; its sweetness and
simplicity turn back the sharpest, the most sophisticated barbs. I
confess I read it through till midnight in one long breathless gasp.
GEORDIE Available at all Bookshops. COLLINS
NEW AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
THE LEAGUE OF THE LORD, by Roy Bridges. Earlv Tasmanian history
told from the human angle. Written under a Common .ih 1 r " J
Fellowship. 2/6 (post ...
THE STORY OF PORT HACKING, CRONULLA AND S' S TH ER u A. i'< H SHIRE,
by Frank Cridland. A wealth of information and enjoy ur . !!v rated
13/6 (post Sd.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
Publishers
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE FOLIO SOCIETY
Until recently only the fortunate few could afford to buy really fine editions
of their favourite books. The Folio Society has now put them within the
reach of all. These editions are printed on fine paper in handsome formats
and illustrated! by leading artists.
Send for our illustrated prospectus giving
full details of this exciting book scheme.
THE FOLIO SOCIETY,
Room 90, Collins House,
360 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Please send me FREE the Folio Society
prospectus and details of Free Book Offer.
NAME
ADDRESS
the wise words of warning that were
embodied in a recent London “Spectator”
review by C. K. Allen:
I have followed cricket keenly all my
life, but I have always been under the
prosaic impression that it was a game.
When, however, 1 read some of our more
accomplished cricket litterateurs, I perceive
that it is really a kind of mystic sacrament,
or tribal rite, or lyrical ballad, or Trojan
epic. Well, epics always bored me,
probably because 1 suffered too much from
them in youth, and I would rather keep
them out of the playing-fields (Waterloo
notwithstanding). I admire and envy good
cricketers, but it is fifty years since I
regarded them as demigods. I also admire
good writers (and I could name some) on a
good game, but when they go all literary,
in what D. H. Lawrence used to call the
“would-be” manner, then, I confess, I
begin to yawn.
Robinson’s From the Boundary
(Collins) is a worthy successor to his
previous venture, Between Wickets.
Robinson sees cricket as a game, and he
sees the game from the viewpoint of a
spectator, but a spectator with the
privilege of entry behind the scenes, and
gifted wifh far more than the average
onlooker’s technical insight.
He really does know cricket and all its
finer points, but does not (and herein the
failing of many piayers-turned-writers)
require his readers to be equally expert
to understand and enjoy him. He has a
delightful and humorous turn of phrase
and the ability to create a vivid picture of
a player or incident.
The legion admirers of Bradman the
cricketer will approach his own story of
his career with nigh expectation, and it is
sufficient praise that Farewell to Cricket
(Hodder and Stoughton) will not dis-
appoint them.
Over the years of post-war cricket (and
before, fo.r that matter), Bradman has
been a sUtim shot for a host of critics, in-
ch ling so' pretty malicious specimens,
bu because of the ban on players writing,
;nd btCS- - of his. position as Australian
captain, seiec or and member of the
Board of Control, be has had to suffer
in silence. Free now to express his side
of the picture, Br adman does so with evi-
dent glee;, j d übtly, without the meat-
axc tactics of tome of his critics, he
proceeds to tear the critics into very fine
shreds.
Apart from this, and aside from telling
very well the Bradman story, Farewell to
Cricket is an excellent general cricket-
book, and it can be reasonably pre-
dicted that more, such will come from
the Bradman pen and will be welcome.
The opinions he delivers on general
aspects of the game, and sundry con-
troversial questions in particular, arq the
solid, logical, long-considered and well-
reasoned summings-up of an experienced
judge, differing vastly from the wild and
woolly opinions tossed out in all direc-
tions in the heat of the moment by
writers trying to catch a newspaper dead-
line.
As well, Bradman has a good sense of
anecdote and a deft touch of humor. The
hook, is well worth reading for one
chapter alone —that dealing with his tour
of Canada and the U.S.A. with Arthur
Mailey’s team in 1932; this is simply a
riot from beginning to end. A couple of
samples;
My most vivid recollection of this game
is that of the umpires. One gave six balls
to the over, the other eight. When Vic
Richardson queried this procedure, he was
told that they couldn’t agree whether we
were to play under M.C.C. or Australian
conditions, so decided that each would go
his own way
There was a lot of fun at Moose Jaw.
One of the umpires was a traveller for the
local chewing-gum manufacturers. Copious
supplies were handed round amongst the
players, who promptly used some of it to
stick the bails on (the day being rather
windy). A liberal amount was attached to
one bail, which fell slowly towards the
ground when one of the batsmen was
stumped. On appeal, the umpire refused
to give him out until the bail actually
reached the ground.
Bradman waited until he had retired
from active participation in the game be-
fore committing himself to a book. Not
so the English professional Cyril Wash-
brook, whose Cricket —The Silver Lining
hits Australian readers just as Washbrook
himself again hits these parts with the
touring M.G.C. team.
Washbrook has spoiled a good book by
following the mistaken belief that a
cricket-book, in order to attract attention,
must delve into the highly controversial
and launch into the sort of virulent
criticism that can be relied on to fetch
bites. Really, it is a pity, for Washbrook
did have something to tell which was
worth telling. Professional cricket as it
exists in England is unknown in Aus-
tralia, and Australian cricket fans have
no notion of the life led by an English
pro.
This Washbrook starts off to relate, and
it is a most interesting story when he
goes into the hard £.s.d. facts of the game
and the tough life of the player who has
to grind away five or six days a week
with one eye on the runs and the other on
the pounds, knowing that if the one fails
to eventuate so does the other. Sub-
sequently, when he deals with his last
Australian tour, Washbrook descends to
complaints against Australian umpires,
ground curators, barrackers, newspapers
and even the first wharflaborer who
greeted the Englishmen at Fremantle,
Enough!
A. G. Moyes’s A Century of Cricketers
(Angus and Robertson) is an interesting
enough trifle, but does not come into the
class of creative writing. Moyes takes a
selection of 100 cricketers over the ages
and to each devotes a page or so of
thumbnail sketch.
His word-sketches, in conjunction with
a good collection of photographs of many
of the players of other days, will come
with fresh interest to the younger genera-
tion of cricket-followers. Most of what
he has to say has been said before ; the
chief virtue of the book is in bringing
what has been said of these 100 players
together in one volume.
“Plum” Warner’s Gentlemen v. Players
(Harrap), similarly, is not a piece of
creative writing. It, indeed, is almost
purely a reference-book serving the com-
mendable purpose of placing on record
a complete factual history of a traditional
and historic annual match, right from the
July days in 1806 when the Gentlemen,
assisted by a couple of pros as was then
the custom, first stitched the mercenaries
by an innings and 14 runs.
To Soothe a Savage Breast: Reginald
Nettle (Evans Brothers), This anthology
of British references to music—Byrd,
Defoe, Lamb, Campion, Hardy, Scott,
Walton, Pepys, Morley—like all antho-
logies, holds much that one has seen
before, and a few pleasing discoveries.
The best discovery is of a letter to the
Press by Charles Reade (of The Cloister
and the Hearth ), asking public subscrip-
tions for the destitute family of Edwin
Ellis, the then lately-deceased leader of
London theatre orchestras. Reade, be-
sides being novelist and playwright, was
also an authority on violins, and his
assessment of Ellis gives us a profound
insight into the value and effect of music
in a play. Mr. Nettle is a tutor in musical
appreciation for the Oxford University
Tutorial Classes Committee.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 94
Across.
I—Ego1—Ego adjacent to the Rhode Island
communication cannot be got
out. (12)
6—A comic-opera princess is a
grand-opera princess. (4)
9 —Joseph Furphy has an American
drink. (3, 7)
12 — Stack shillings with pull. (4)
13— The most superior exist by the
thoroughfare. (4)
14 — Mother with the smart and
stylish duck and recent coppers
having narrow openings in the
fortress walls. (12)
17 — Act alternative superficial measure
backing the entrance. (4)
18 — Bewitch with a masculine kiss. (3)
19 — Fatherly halves of scores of
church utensils. (6)
22 — Having rows concerning Com-
munist mercery? (6)
23 — The French feminine kiss is not
strict. (3)
24 — 1000 go to the ’Varsity for this
Academy Award winner. (4)
27 — N.Z. geographical feature can
make a kea walk up it. (4, 8)
28 — The French half of the cricket
field spends Christmas on the
way back. (4)
30 — Pacific port takes six to
Louisiana. (4)
31 — Spoil like the genial feature and
ring for the liqueur. (10)
32 What the redactor does for the
turnisg of the tide. (4)
33 — Animal joint has a European
river utensil before morning
reaches America. (12)
Down.
1 — Where is Timothy’s heart? 1
lead dried fruit and cows. (11)
2 Cancer is an example of this. (6)
3 Temper the dead queen, Capone.(6)
4 Relieved. (5)
5 Statute from the French direc-
tion. (3)
7 Pronoun.
8— Spot for Dorothy. (3)
10 — Sounds as if these tiny organisms
provide vestments for Michael. (8)
11 — Edward of Woolloomooloo is
robbed. (6)
13—British statesman is urged to be
Johnson of Hollywood. (5)
15 — They restore one between the
remainder and the teachers. (11)
16 — Inca lubra and I finish off an
Italian composer. (8)
20— Entreat for one to be a rising
horse that has started. (5)
21— Fruit degree given to a ZolB
novel. (6)
25 Abscond to spend some of December with
a legislator. (6)
26 — Motherly Caledonian takes 1000 to the
racecourse with some charm. (6)
27 Reluctant to make A 1 hot. (5)
28— Hat for sld. (3)
29 High-priest of Shiloh. (3)
30 — Irritate the East between one number
and its double. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 93.


mJ
I Ml
m
r.
I
i
*2
*s=
*7
<3
58^
l
S 3
so
# *• •
S&
you build
or buy a home
consult Thi
MIX
The M.L.C. can offer you finance on most
reasonable terms. By means of Life Assurance
your debt is covered should you die during
the term of the loan. Full information is
freely available from any M.L.C Office or
Representative*
The
The MUTUAL LIFE and CITIZENS’ Assurance Co. Ltd
HEAD OFFICE: Martin Place and Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE;
Collins and Elizabeth
Streets.
BRISBANE;
Commercial House,
Queen and Creek Streets,
ADELAIDE:
Savings Bank Building,
101 King William Street.
PERTH:
it 79a St. George's
[Terrace,
HOBART:
M.L.C. Building,
Liverpool & Murray Sts.i
Hobart.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.)i
M.L.C. Building, Lambtod
Quay.
