

The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 71—No. 3679
Wednesday, August 16, 1950
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
ST. ALBANS CATHEDRAL COMMEMORATES A ROMAN LEGIONARY
TWENTY miles from London, on the River Ver, is St. Albans, whose
history stretches back almost two thousand years to the first century b.c..
when, during the period of Roman occupation of Britain, the town was
known as Verulamium. It was here that the Roman soldier Albnnus was
beheaded for having embraced the Christian faith and for having sheltered a
Christian priest. He was the first. Christian to suffer martyrdom in England,
and upon the site of his execution, on Holmhurst Hill, above the River /er,
a shrine was erected.
Following the departure of the Romans from Britain Verulamium sank
into decay, and all signs of the martyr’s grave disappeared. Three centuries
later, however, the Saxon King Offa, tormented by the memory of many
crimes, declared that, in expiation, he would search for the martyrs bones
and build an Abbey over them. While searching the summit ot Holmhurst
Hill with a band of chiefs, so tradition asserts, a flash of lightning struck
the ground at their feet, and excavation at this point revealed the bonw «f
Saint Alban. Fulfilling his promise, Offa built a church and founded a
Benedictine Abbey in the year 793, which soonamassedgreat wealth, and
was destined to become the most magnificent Abbey, with t ' 1 r e , ex , ce^ lo " °;
Westminster, in the kingdom. The Saxon church was replaced .later by a
Norman Abbey, and around this ecclesiastical centre grew the tow
of St. Albans, to which succeeding centuries have made their own characteristic
architectural additions. , ... its
Besides examples of all periods of architecture, the Ab ey c ■
structure bricks and tiles taken from the rums of urc h can
Verulamium, and in its North Transept traces of the Saxon churchy
still be seen St. Alban’s Cathedral and Abbey Church is aso remarKao e
for its massive Norman tower and for its possession of the longest Got
nave in existence.
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT


Leant
teEBSS*® 0
niiLlJnm
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin”
My Name
Uy Address •*•**
S.B. 250 AGE «**
The Red Page
A MELDRUM BOOK.
Outside Melbourne, where his school
of painting has long been established and
where he has been involved in many a
controversy —the latest having arisen
when he was pushed out of his trustee-
ship at the Victorian National Gallery—
Max Meldrum is a figure of mystery and
legend. For that reason alone there
should be a welcome for his immense
exposition of his theories published by
the Shepherd Press, The Science of
A ppearances.
It is certainly, as befits the hero of a
legend, an extraordinary book. Even in
format, though in printing, binding and
color-reproductions it is of the very high
standard we have come to expect from
the Shepherd Press, it is unusual. There
is a page in the middle with an oblong
hole cut out of it, so that you may study
the optical illusions derived from tonal
contrasts. There are diagrams with such
formidable captions as “Form of equal
speed value in three keynotes.”
And attached to the inside back cover,
in two separate receptacles, each rather
like a hip-pocket where you might expect
to find a nip of Scotch, are a chart of the
world’s painters compiled by The
Bulletin’s old friend Percy Leason and
three bits of darkened celluloid which
the reader will find equally useful for
studying Max Meldrum’s paintings or the
next eclipse of the sun.
The contents are no less extraordinary ;
in fact, considerably more so. Mr.
Russell R. Foreman, a pupil of Meldrum’s
who has put the book together from the
painter’s notebooks and lectures and who
provides a commentary where necessary,
writes an involved and sometimes un-
grammatical prose, calls Meldrum rever-
ently “my master” and compares him, in
his difficulties with the critics, with
Sisyphus.
We are told on the jacket that Meldrum
has recently been described in America
as “the greatest living painter” ; and Mr.
Leason’s curious tabulation, in which
marks are awarded to the world’s painters
from Velasquez to Picasso on the extent
to which they have painted in the Mel-
drum manner, places Meldrum —logi-
cally, but still rather surprisingly— at the
top of the whole class; in effect, the
greatest painter in history. As Mr. Fore-
man, who concurs with this remarkable
evaluation, expounds it:
The analysis of Meldrum’s work as far
as this chart is concerned is of particular
interest. The student will notice that only
one painter [Meldrumj is marked as having
reached stage 6 completely. In every other
case where a painter is shown with 6 after
his name other numbers also appear, but
Meldrum’s place is untainted by any other
consideration or factor which might detract
from his pigmental statement being con-
sidered as “the highest degree of truth”—
in other words, the “expression of percepts
of the order of relative importance of the
factors composing the pattern of the par-
ticular optical impression” unalloyed by
any subjective perceptions and conceptions.
No other Australian painter appears on
this chart; nor, indeed, is any Australian
painter other than Meldrum mentioned
throughout the book.
These flamboyancies are not, of course,
Meldrum’s; but his own statements are
not less challenging. y He attacks with
equal fervor the subject-picture, critics,
“modernists,” drawing, landscapists who
take their pictures home to finish them,
“impure” nudes, noses (regarded as
noses instead of tone), Fragonard and
Monet. By the device of choosing a poor
example by one master to compare with
a good example by another he asserts
the superiority of Velasquez to Rubens
and (though indeed with an apologetic
footnote) Hiroshige to Turner. He denies
any place to the creative imagination in
art, and time and time again he is forced
by his own remorseless logic to the
rapturous contemplation of Rembrandt’s
“Flayed Ox” as the final proof that great
artists care nothing for subject-matter,
nothing for dramatic and emotional con-
tent, nothing for anything but tone.
As for the mere buyer of pictures who
might prefer to live with, say, the girl
on Fragonard’s swing rather than a flayed
ox, Meldrum would hit him on the head
with a hambone. And as for the possi-
bility that Rembrandt painted the flayed
ox from humane or vegetarian as well as
purely aesthetic motives and the certainty
that if he had painted nothing but flayed
animals he would have been set down as
a sadist instead of the profound analyst
of human character he is, Meldrum has
no time for such arguments.
But there is, distantly, a touch of
humor in all this; and something of
deliberate overstatement for the purpose
of driving home to the student the basic
necessity for craftsmanship ; and perhaps
there is, too, an impish delight in pro-
voking an explosion—a demonstration of
the artist’s personality.
It is, after all, largely as a personality
—bearded, dogmatic and known to hold
fiery and mysterious opinions about the
importance of tone —that Meldrum
figures in contemporary legend. And
his art, too, though Meldrum would
fiercely deny it, surely reflects the force
and color of a highly original person-
ality : whether it is his vivid interiors, his
yellow daffodils against the characteristic
chocolate-brown background, his loose,
bright spacious landscapes or his
vigorous, chunky portraits which, with
their square chins, their prominent high-
light on the forehead and their brick-red
faces, so often seem to be blazing with
anger. Much of what he has painted
since the early portrait of his mother or
the beautiful landscapes from France
seems a little too loosely observed, a
little too much on the surface; and
everything is stamped with a kind of
brilliant impatience which is his personal
signature.
Throughout The Science of Appear-
ances, while never going so far as to
question his own merits, Meldrum is at
pains to deny this individuality. lie
regards the artist purely as a “scientist,”
with no other mission than to observe
and imitate the “ocular facts” of Nature
and says that, though his method of re-
cording the facts may be different, he is
precisely the same kind of man as a
botanist. He is, in fact, utterly opposed
to the idea that art should express the
artist’s personality:
John Constable has emphatically given
his opinion on this strange idea of “self-
expression” in stating that he could only
consider it as a sign of human limitations,
and there is no doubt that the art of each
period which has lived has always been
characterised by its relative suppression of
individual ideas and fancies. Individuality
in art spells decadence.
But of course it takes a strongly indi-
vidual personality to come out so forcibly
—and with so much rugged commonsense
—against the fashionable artistic theory
of the day; and it would be strange if
this personality did not somewhere, some-
how, however the artist might try to
subdue it, and however wise he is in
that attempt, reveal itself in his paint-
ings. And certainly there is force of
personality, sometimes wayward, some-
times sound and at all times concerned
with expressing itself, revealed on every
page of The Science of Appearances.
And in Meldrum’s individuality, if
there we find his extravagances and his
limitations, there also we find his strength.
Fundamentally the purpose of The
Science of Appearances is to set down
a practical approach to art for the
student; and of course it is much wiser
to tell the student, at the beginning, that
his job is to record the “ocular facts” of
Nature than that he is possessed by a
divine frenzy. It is simply the tradi-
tional insistence on the prime necessity
for craftsmanship, with the difference that
Meldrum insists on the approach by way
of tone instead of drawing and composi-
tion. The core of his theory is in the
paragraph;
The unique difficulty for the painter is
the objective analysis of ocular sensation
From the moment he takes his palette
and brushes in hand his actual subject
of study from a fixed focusing point can
be likened to a flat curtain with light and
dark disturbances producing feelings of
shapes and sizes transposed into various
chromatic sensations. In this region things
do not exist, the awareness of them has no
place, and all the subjective perceptions
and conceptions derived from objective per-
ceptions are still further removed from the
painter’s job. His difficulty lies in the
acquirement of the ability to remain at the
source of all percepts and concepts (Objec-
tive Perception) derived through the organ
of sight.
The student, says Meldrum, is to put
himself into the state of mind of a child
before it knows that a flame will burn
its hand, seeing it only as tone and form
and color, without other mental com- <
ment. Ocular sensations come to the
brain in a strict order of tone, then form, 1
then color and in that order the student :
must approach the problem of imitating <
his subject on canvas. Only when he has
finished his landscape should he be able
to talk about the house, the tree or the j
cloud he has been painting, which up till
then have been only a relationship of
tones, forms and colors. If he is paint-
ing the portrait of a woman he must see
her as “a set of patches, a scheme or
visual phenomena in tonal, formal and
chromatic relationships.”
There is nothing very new in this,
except the patience, industry and iron
dogmatism with which Meldrum outlines
his “science,” and most painters would
agree that it provides a sound basis for
laying-in a painting and for clarifying the
mind for the exercise of craftsmanship.
Where opinion begins to differ, of course,
is in the implication that the artist, both
technically and emotionally, must be
satisfied to stop at this “set of patches’
directly transcribed from nature.
The Science of Appearances' is pub-
lished in two editions —a de luxe edition,
limited to 100 numbered copies, bound in
full morocco, and a cloth-bound edition
of 1000 copies. Nine of Meldrum’s
paintings are reproduced in color and a
number of the Old Masters in black-and-
white.
THE RAISING OF THE DEAD.
Moved by the miracles of saints —
The child restored, the leper healed—
Through the black plumage of death I
watch
The intervening angels step
Down the blue sky, across the field.
To see the young man raised to life,
The soul return to shuttered eyes
They crowd in faded radiance
Where, underneath an orange-tree,
So inexplicably he lies.
They lift the hand left limp by death
And stir the stiffly-painted gown,
The wind of life is on their lips,
The holy gold about their heads:
Thus has the painter set them down.
Angels are free to come and go—-
My pity for the youth who lies
These seven centuries at least
Returned to Life; who once had caught
A wink, a glimpse, of Paradise.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Five Historical Novels .
History will never be cut-and-dried
while there are historical novelists; they
drop their buckets down the well of the
years and haul up amazing people no one
ever heard of: thus, in Wind of the Morn-
ing (Collins), Reginald Kirby produces a
soldier-of-fortune called Hugh Brent, who
strode and rode about England in the
middle sixteenth century.
Hugh Brent hunts in couples, for the
villain of the piece is a brother he didn’t
know he had; also, he spends his time
between the service of Bloody Mary and
of the Duke of Northumberland, and
later accompanies Sir Thomas Wyatt, Jr.,
in his rebellion against Queen Mary,
after which he achieves the Queen’s
blessing upon his future activities; also,
he kisses Constance, ward of the Duke of
Northumberland, and then he kisses
Eleyn, lady-in-waiting to Lady Jane Grey,
and cannot decide which he is in love
with until one of them, by throwing her-
self upon the sword of his would-be
assassin, makes it possible for him to
marry only the other.
Historically or dramatically, Mr.
Kirby’s Wind is little more than a slight
breeze; nor does The Last of Captain
Bligh, by Crawford Vaughan (Staples),
reach gale force; it is a clear account,
heavily weighted on John MacArthur’s
side, of the row between Bligh and Mac-
Arthur which ended in Bligh’s deposition,
but there are some interesting points*
which one does not remember having
seen brought out by Dr. Evatt, in his
excursion into the same field, The Rum
Rebellion.
Bligh, it seems, had staying with him,
besides his widowed daughter, Mrs. Put-
land, a beautiful young ward called Mary
Mannering. Mary and Bligh’s aide,
Lieutenant Harold Lothair, used to sing
duets together, and would have done more
but bitter old Bligh put the young man
under isolative custody and ordered him
to take the next boat home. On the
morning of these events a French
buccaneer sailed into Port Jackson in a
captured English ship, the Hesperus, with
a crew of Americans, Frenchmen and
Irishmen and, passing himself off as the
wealthy and eccentric English yachtsman
Sir Russell Hayter, prepared to gain the
new colony for Napoleon and Mary
Mannering for himself.
Mary, for her part, went quietly about
forging Bligh’s name to an order for
young Lieutenant Lothair’s disembarka-
tion, and rode off to intercept the out-
ward-bound ship Buffalo at Watson’s Bay.
Meanwhile the Army and the populace
were marching upon Government House
to depose Bligh, and Picard (“Sir Russell
Hayter”), determined to exploit this dis-
affection by taking over the town, had
landed with his men. But, learning of
Mary Mannering’s mission, he threw aside
his political plans and raced after her.
The resultant derring-do—little Mrs.
Putland’s brave umbrella-waggling at the
soldiers come to arrest her father, Harold
Lothair’s enlargement, disablement, return
to consciousness, and swim to rescue his
Mary from the Harbor into which she
had jumped rather than accompany the
Frenchman to his ship— must constitute
one of the wildest nights that has ever
been known between Sydney Town and
Watson’s Bay.
But, in historical novels, life is like that.
For instance, in On a Darkling Plain, by
Phoebe Fenwick Gaye (Cape), Sergei
Sovorov, who assassinated the Tsar, has
a brother called Eugene, who is in l ove
with Vinnie Davison, of the great British
railway-building family. Eugene has been
shepherding Sergei all over Europe,
avoiding police. Vinnie doesn’t know
where Eugene is, but while she is stay-
ing in Herzegovina, where her father’s
firm is making a railway, what should
happen but that she should be bailed up
by a bandit in a, hut where the bandit’s
mate, Sergei Sovorov, is dead, and what
more natural than that Vinnie, being a
wishful painter, should paint Sergei dead,
and exhibit the picture, entitled “The
Young Revolutionary,” at Brussels,
where Eugene sees it, recognises his
brother, and leaves a sprig of verdure
wedged into the corner of the frame to
let Vinnie know he’s been around?
In this book, the third of a trilogy,
there is some insight into the working of
a huge family business, laying down rail-
ways and picking up relations all over
the world ; and the main plot is the mess
the German uncle makes of things when,
as the family agent in Berlin, he makes
a great many backdoor political intrigues
instead of the open contracts with Gov-
ernments which the firm is used to
having; the point being that you can’t
be too careful whom you let into a
family business; and this is also the
theme of Let Love Come Last, by Taylor
Caldwell (Collins).
Miss Caldwell’s novel, more of a
costume novel than an historical novel,
is still the history of a big American
lumber-business ; and in it we see brought
to maturity the brother-versus-brother
theme that is to be found in its embryonic
stage in Mr. Kirby’s Wind of the Morn-
ing. In Let Love Come Last William
Prescott hijacks the business of his em-
ployer, who dies of a broken heart. Then
he adopts a fatherless child, and later
admits his former employer’s son into
his business. The former employer’s son
schemes, in turn, to hijack William
Prescott’s business, while the adopted
son pulls a fast one at the last minute
which foils the former employer’s son.
Then it turns out that the two young
men are brothers.
This book is also the story of the crude
William Prescott’s conquest of the ele-
gant Ursula Wende; bow he built a
mansion for her and insisted on furnish-
ing it himself ; how he gave her children,
and refused to let her control them, so
that they grew up pretty wild, despising
their father; a daughter and a son join-
ing in an intrigue to steal his business,
another son running off to Italy to be-
come a painter; the moral being that
Momma should have been allowed to
knock them about a bit.
There is a pleasanter picture of un-
controllable, or uncontrolled, children in
The Dukays, by Lajos Zilahy (Heine-
mann), a 687-page story of a noble
Hungarian family, mainly of the doings
of Kristina and her little sister Zia.
Kristina, early seduced by a swimming-
teacher, seems to have lived-around con-
siderably. Then a fortune-teller told her
that she would hold a king’s heart in her
hands.
This is where Phoebe Fenwick
Gaye’s book impinges upon Lajos
Zilahy’s; for if Miss Gaye’s Davison
family had not built the railway
from Spaleto to Sarajevo, the Arch-
duke Franz might not have been
assassinated at Sarajevo, and if he had
not been assassinated, then Kristina might
have held his heart in her hand. Never-
theless, upon the death of Franz Josef,
Kristina, with the aid of Juan Hwang,
a Hungarian member of Parliament with
whom she lived on the most affectionate
terms, set her cap for King Charles of
Austria; was present at several of his
secret conferences during the first World
War, and acted as an intermediary be-
tween him and the Bourbons ; then she
followed him into exile. But he was a
good family man, and the only time she
held his heart in her hands was when,
as nurse, she assisted the doctors at the
autopsy.
As to little Zia, she married a young
Italian Prince, found him out in un-
faithfulness, seized the wonderful car she
had given him, and went to study photo-
graphy on a little Italian island. There
(“Red Page” continued on page 35.)


"TRUTH
[IN advertising-
Anthony Horderns'
■
T*»
*
m
•x
w
-
m
■ ■
a hi •i■
F
SM
B
P
x *> x?
—^s»
t*K ’IS I
.
f\
J
~\.-
«
jfc
5
•••<■;.
3
p/
/
/i-
-iX
m
'"^Z
* - -,
\
\
X
Five-piece Tubular Setting
Set comprises Umbrella Table and four
Chairs lacquered Cream, Green, or Red
with multi-coloured striped canvas.
Individual pieces can be purchased.
Whole setting £l6/3/6, Umbrella £B/2/6.
£4/17/9
Sleepy Hollow Reading Chair
Split cane Sleepy Hallow Reading
Chairs, very strong in construction and
extremely comfortable. Price, £4/17/9.
Five-piece Sun Room Setting
Set comprises table and four chairs, in
Maple, Silky Oak or Silver Ash. Seats
and backs are of strong plain canvas in
a wide range of colours. Individual
pieces can be purchased separately if
required. Whole setting, price, £2O/11/6.
Wrought Iron Lounge Chair
Foot Stool, Chair on wheels has adjust-
able back that can be let down to three
positions. Lacquered in Ivory colour
and cushions are in Red, Blue or Green
duck. Price, complete, £lB/3/-.
an ensemble of charm
Wrought Iron Furniture...
x%, . •
An essential addition to the modern home, this Outdoor Furniture
not only adds charm, but is also very practical
in its use on special occasions or for every day use.
+—
I
«
v... .‘I
-V
ggyff^\
>-
£lB/3/-
-=ar9E
■c -
i/A.'
£2O/11/6
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ OUTDOOR FURNITURE DEPT. —FOURTH FLOOR, GEORGE ST.
M 2401: BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE TIRPITZ CRIPPLED
by MACNELL
AT a minute to eight on the morning
of September 22, 1943, the 40,000
armored tons of battleship Tirpitz
(sister to Bismarck) lay, lurking in
net- and mine-protected security, several
miles up Kaafjord, in Norway. At eight
o’clock a periscope was sighted a few
yards off her port bow —security blasted,
immediate panic, men running along her
stretching upper-deck to man turrets and
secondary armament; frantic training of
big guns which would not bear, desperate
firing of everything that would bear, from
4.1-inch to rifles and hand-grenades. Sus-
penseful waiting, while the water
stretched, caljtn and empty, a smiling veil
on what was happening in its half-lit
depths. And, at 8.12, a shuddering ex-
plosion which heaved her vast, static
bulk five feet o.ut of the water, tore her
hull open, shook her meticulously
assembled innards out
of alignment and sat her
down amid frothy circles
of wash running swiftly
to shore, a crippled,
15 - inch - gunned hulk.
The British Navy, with midget sub-
marines, had found the answer to the
threat of a powerful ship which would not
come out to sea and fight. The story of
how that answer was found, planned and
executed is one remarkable even for a
most remarkable Service.
THE Royal Navy, at any time, is
always active, always perfecting. In
war, it is tireless. One portion carries
out the normal marine activity of a
marine nation at war—convoying, patrol-
ling, fighting, training. Another waits,
ready to the last degree, to deal with any
enemy threat to home bases. And a third,
quietly behind the scenes, unheadlined,
unspectacular, works and plans with
indefatigable tenacity to fulfil its tradition-
built axiom—to find and destroy the
enemy, wherever he may be found.
Wherever he may be found. For many
months German heavy units —Bismarck,
Tirpitz, Scharnhorst, Hipper, Lutzow—
had been skulking in their heavily-de-
fended and inaccessible Norwegian
anchorages, their possible sallying a con-
itant threat to north Atlantic and
Murmansk convoys, necessitating heavy
covering forces of British battleships and
cruisers. Tirpitz was crippled in
September, 1943 ; as early as May, 1942,
the plans to get at her in her hideout
were implemented, when, on the twelfth
of that month, a contract was placed with
Vickers Armstrong for the construction
of six X-craft of a new and improved
design, built to attack capital ships in
harbor and surrounded by net-defences.
At the same time, volunteers were called
for throughout the Fleets for “special and
hazardous service” —surely, in a Service
where understatement is a fetish, a descrip-
tion to make the most V.C.-minded pause.
There is no record of any difficulty in
How two
midget submarines
did the job
obtaining crews, three of whom, com-
manding-officers Lt. H. Henty-Creer
(X 5), Lt. B. M. McFarlane (X 8) and Lt.
K. R. Hudspeth (X 10), were Australians.
BY January 16 Vickers had completed
their part of the operation, and six
ugly, almost-awash craft were delivered to
the Admiral (Submarines). The Jap
midgets killed in Sydney harbor were
flimsy, sheet-metal affairs —Vickers’s
deliveries, built by a firm whose trade-
mark is carried by a large proportion of
the British Navy, were tough, steel-
hardened models of ocean-going sub-
marines, hardly more than a man’s height
from upper-deck to bilges, and designed
to buck, saw and bullock their way
through the high-tensile strength of steel
nets and booms which the Germans had
laid across Kaafjord,
On each side of the
vessels, streamlined and
looking like outboard
bilges, was fitted an ex-
plosive charge, detach-
able from inside. Each
charge contained two tons of high ex-
plosive. Crews comprised the C.O.
(lieutenant), two sub-lieutenants and one
engine-room artificer.
There followed month after month of
strenuous training—physical training, so
that the volunteers could be excused for
thinking they had landed in Joe Louis’s
camp; seamanship, so that captains of
craft could handle their revolutionary
charges with omniscient sensitivity; map-
digesting, so that navigating officers knew
Kaafjord as intimately as the mirrored re-
flection of their! own dials.
After seven months of it, crews were
considered fit for advanced training at
Loch Cairnbawn, close north of Loch
Ewe, where from July to the completion
of the operation full-scale exercises and
attacks against battleships were the day’s
routine. The target-ships were fully pro-
tected by nets and booms, replicas of
those to be actually breached, information
on which was obtained by a method
difficult enough to believe today—the
sending, with Russian approval, of a
British photographic unit to Murmansk
by destroyer, to run a shuttle service
between the U.K. and North Russia by
reconnaissance Mosquitos. This pre-
liminary reconnais-
sance was supple-
mented, as sailing-
hour approached, by
the basing of three
Spitfires on Vaenga,
which camera-carry-
ing speedsters sent
back full details of
the disposition of the
enemy units and
their net-protection.
One vital problem
took some solving—
how to get die small
X-craft the one-
thousand-odd -miles
to Kaafjord. After
exhaustive experi-
mentation it was de-
cided the only safe
way to avoid detec-
tion (naturally of
paramount import-
ance) was to tow the
six ugly ducklings
astern of their
ocean-going mothers.
Of the six sub-
marine? detailed for the tow, ill-fated
Truculent was one.
FROM September 1, the month of de-
parture, security measures at Loch
Cairnbawn, already severe, were made
watertight. No leave was allowed, none
but specially selected men were permitted
out of the area, and all ships present
were retained in port until the completion
of the operation. It will be seen that
security and anti-detection methods en-
route were, characteristically, faultless.
Because of the waning moon it was
imperative that the operation be com-
menced shortly. But on September 7
Spitfires reported only Lutzow present in
the Alten area—Tirpitz and Scharnhorst,
the main bag, had shoved off for Ice
Fjord, Spitzbergen, On September 10 the
two German ships steamed again up
Alten Fjord to their berths in Kaafjord.
They must have noticed a solitary British
fighter, a black streak high up above
them ;• they would have been interested
to see the interior of a cabin aboard
H.M.S. Bonaventure, submarine depot
ship far to the south in Loch Cairnbawn,
where gold-braided officers an hour or so
later sat rubbing their collective hands
over a piece of white paper, whose coded
cryptographs told them the exact, and ex-
pected, berths of Tirpitz and Scharnhorst.
That same morning Rear-Admiral
C. B. Barry, D.S.O., Admiral (Sub-
marines), arrived in Loch Cairnbawn ; he
gathered his 24 heroes, trained to
concert-pitch, aboard Bonaventure, and
they saw by his face it was “on.” Next
day, at two-hour intervals, six ocean-
going submarines stole from harbor, each
trailing astern a pint-sized replica.
IT is intended here to forgo exact
1 chronological sequence so that, with
the three craft which failed to reach
Kaafjord disposed of, the reader may be
free to travel through the fjord and up to
and under the unsuspecting bulk of
anchored Tirpitz.
Between September 11-14 passage was
uneventful; weather was good, all sub-
marines made nearly 10 knots with their
X-craft dived in tow, and the tows sur-
faced to ventilate three or four times
every 24 hours for about 15 minutes. The
midgets were manned by passage crews, so
that action crews, in the towing sub-
marines, would be fresh to take over at
the slipping position.
It could hardly be expected that in a
one-thousand-mile tow through enemy
waters trouble would not eventuate. It
began with X8 (Lt. McFarlane, R.A.N.),
whose tow parted at four in the morning.
Visibility was poor, X8 was submerged at
the time, her towing submarine did not
at first notice the break (a long length of
heavy steel-wire rope trailing astern with
the ship making 10 knots looks as though
it could have the Queen Mary on the
other end) and when X8 surfaced her
mother was nowhere in sight. She was,
however, diligently searching for her
errant charge, finally found her, and re-
passed the tow.
Then the buoyancy chamber in one of
X8’s explosive charges sprang a leak,
causing her to list badly to starb’d.
McFarlane decided to jettison the
charge; he set it to “safe,” released it
in one hundred and eighty fathoms, and
had proceeded about on© thousand yards
when the “safe” charge blew
up. In his words, “the explosion was
loud but caused no damage.” Similarly
with the port charge. Distrusting the
“safe” setting, he set the two tons to fire
two hours after release. An hour and
three-quarters later, when X8 was a good
three-and-a-half miles further on, the
charge blew with tremendous force, flood-
ing one compartment of the midget, dis-
torting watertight doors, fracturing pipes
and rendering the craft incapable of
diving. Whatever the reason for the
charges’ queer and paradoxical behavior,
the second explosion certainly illustrated
their efficiency. X8 was now out of the run-
ning ; nothing remained but to scuttle her.
In the meantime, X9 had also parted
her tow. Her mother searched all day,
but found only a well-defined oil track,
running directly for the slipping position,
then two hundred miles away. It appears
X9 intended having a shot on her own;
so she sails out of this narrative, as she
did not reach Tirpitz, nor was any further
news received of her.
The position on September 20 was that
four X-craft had been successfully towed
to their patrol sectors, ready for slipping
on the great venture —a bald statement
which cannot hop© to convey the superb
seamanship involved in the nine-day
haulage. Some highlights of it were the
sudden, early-morning sighting by
mother-submarine Syrtis of a surfaced
U-boat at fifteen-hundred-yards range, a
sitting shot which had to be foregone be-
cause of strict orders to let everything
alone under capital ships; a floating
mine whose mooring-wire snagged on the
tow of X 7 and ended impaling its ex-
plosive bulb on the little ship’s bows. It
brought the C. 0., Lt. Place, up on to the
casing, where by deft footwork he cleared
the unpleasant obstruction, remarking as
he did so that this was the first time he
had kicked a mine away by the horns.
This serious-faced youngster already had
a D. 5.0.; his casual action is commen-
surate with the spirit which two days later
was to preface those initials with V.C.
XlO (Australian Lt. Hudspeth) slipped
with the remaining three operational
craft, and after some nerve-jumping ex-
periences trying to get in had a fire
develop in his periscope-motor, filling his
craft with smoke and leaving him without
navigational eyes—and, with defects de-
veloping in his compass, virtually blind.
Then at the entrance to Kaafjord, he de-
cided to abandon, the operation to avoid
compromising his flotilla-mates’ chances,
and, after a scary 10 days in thickly-
patrolled enemy waters, cramped in his
tiny craft, was finally recovered by his
mother-ship and towed back to base.
WHICH leaves X 5, 6 and 7 boldly
cruising across a moored minefield
guarding Soroy Sound (where a rise in the
bottom of the floating garden of death
could have reduced a mine’s normal 15ft.-
depth to five, and reduced the X-craft to
steel slivers), proceeding submerged up
Stjernsund in daylight of September 21,
dodging patrol craft, and reaching Alten
Fjord by dusk, here to wait, recharge
batteries, and at first light on September
22 to head for the target area, Kaafjord,
about four miles ahead.
It will no doubt have already occurred
to the reader that the methodical Hun
would not leave access to his biggest
battleship and battlecruiser exactly open ;
and the writer would, like to point out a
few of the modern and highly unpleasant
devices which were strewn around the im-
pudent trio lying submerged outside
Kaafjord entrance.
First, the minefield, already crossed,
and patrolled regularly by anti-submarine
vessels. These fast craft, fitted with asdic
from which the small, slow X-craft.
could not have hoped to escape, carried
three-hundred-pound depth-charges, any
one of which could have turned the
surrounding water instantaneously into a
giant crushing hand which would bear to
the midgets something the same relation
as a steam-hammer to an eggshell. Next,
patrolling aircraft, to whom in the com-
paratively shallow sound-waters (Tirpitz
was anchored in only twenty fathoms) the
midgets would stand out like three black
cigars set plainly in green.
Spanning Kaafjord entrance were
heavy, closely-meshed special steel-wire
anti-submarine nets, designed to halt
fifteen-hundred-ton ocean-going sub-
marines, something of the style of
Sydney’s boom-defence. These nets were
continually floodlit at night, and, of
course, were served by their flotilla of
guard-ships and by shore-batteries.
Round Tirpitz herself were no fewer
than three rings of anti-torpedo nets
which, it was piously hoped, would extend
only about fifty feet below surface,
sufficient to catch a torpedo aimed at
Tirpitz’s bilges. As Tirpitz was anchored
in one-hundred-and-twenty-feet of water,
the idea was to sail serenely in beneath
her nets. Unfortunately, the Hun was un-
co-operative, and extended his nets nght
to the bottom. ~
Inside, the narrow fjord swarmed with
boats from Tirpitz and Scharnhorst, patrol
vessels and small coasters ; there were the
normal anti-aircraft defence and anti-
sabotage watch ashore ; and Tirpitz ran a
hydrophone listening-office. Added to
this little lot were defects in the
periscopes of both X 6 and X 7. Waiting
for the dawn was spent making good de-
fects, these including faulty fuse-clocks on
X6’s port charge, and, in X 7, the fitting or
the spare exhaust-pipe, discovering that
it did not fit, and its eventual “make-do-
and-mend” with the help of tape, canva
and chewing-gum. It will be rememberea
(i Continued on page 20.)


The Bulletin
Vol. 71 —No. 3679
Wednesday, August 16, 1950
THE PROBLEM OF FRITZ.
“He knows how to use it, messieurs; but does he know which way to point it?"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
CALLING THE BLUFF.
The leader of the Federal “Labor” party,
the party whose defence policy during the
past four critical years has been (and
still is) confined to reliance on U.N.0.,
and whose foreign policy was expressed
as simply “support U.N.0.,” has met the
first real test of Australian sincerity in
the matter with this comment:
An unfortunate impression is being
created that Australia’s support of the
United Nations with ground troops for use
in Korea is being used as a bargaining lever
to obtain dollars.
The Communists’ weekly propagandist
journal in Sydney came out, the day
before Mr. Chifley’s utterance, with the
following:
Menzies openly offered Australian youth
to help U.S. aggression in Korea and any-
where else. He went brazenly on to ask, in
return, for dollars to build up Australia as
a war arsenal.
Did the local Communists give Mr.
Chifley the lead, or was that not
necessary?
Mr. Chifley’s outlook upon Asia, formed
during eight years of high office —four of
them in mortal combat against an Asiatic
aggressor bent on leading all Asia against
the white race, and four recent years of
“cold war” against another Asiatic
aggressor with even more ambitious views
of world dominion—are not identifiably
pro-Australian, pro-British or pro-
democratic. They are compounded of a
repugnance to America (as capitalist), to
British rule in Malaya (as imperialist),
to Dutch rule in N.E.I. (as colonialism),
mixed with some curious affinity, with
the British-hating Pandit Nehru in India
and the Japanese collaborator, Soekarno,
in Indonesia. Both Nehru and Soekarno
are on record as regarding White Aus-
tralia to be no more than a temporary
condition and unacceptable to a nation-
alist-minded and aggressive Asia; and
both appear to anticipate Communist
dominance over all that continent as in-
evitable and imminent. Their general
attitude towards international events is
not to be interpreted otherwise!
In evident accord with the latter view,
Mr. Chifley’s comment last month
on Australian participation in “support of
U.N.0.” in Korea was that we “do not
want to be dragged into every row that
occurs in Asia.” The propaganda of
Moscow and the edicts of the Cominform
from Prague and Peking (meetings to
which Australian Communists regarded
as worthy members of Mr. Chifley’s
“movement” have been delegates) have
dwelt on precisely that note in their
clamorous organisation of a “peace
offensive” among people whose support
Mr. Chifley also looks to enlist. The
president of the New South Wales A.L.P.,
the body whose objective is to keep Mr.
Chifley (under the cast-iron party pledge)
in Parliament, chimes in fully with Mr.
Chifley’s sentiments. His comment on
an Australian U.N. contingent for Korea
is: “We don’t want our troops used to
help preserve American capitalism,” or
ourselves to be regarded as “servile
colonials, fit only to supply shock troops
and take the brunt of battle.” Yet they
affect to be “bitterly opposed to Com-
munism,” these leading representatives of
the Australian workers’ political party,
though that opposition has never yet been
translated into action on any opportunity
offered, and especially when responsibility
of government in office demanded such
action.
The attitude of Mr. Chifley and of all
his colleagues in the late Ministry to-
wards the Menzies Government’s Com-
munist Suppression Bill is now fully
accountable. No longer does a pretence
of concern for British justice serve to
condone the persistent, obstinate obstruc-
tion of the bill under Mr. Chifley’s leader-
ship—obstruction of a mandate accepted
by the Liberal-Country parties from an
emphatic majority at the late elections,
an obstruction made possible only by a
Senate deliberately rigged before the
Chifley Government was routed out of
office. Under Mr. Chifley’s leadership in
Opposition the disgraceful tactics for pro-
tection of malignant Soviet agents from
the penalty (mild enough) of dismissal
from Government employment and from
trade-union executive office are now shown
up in full light by the attitude of
“Labor’s” leader towards the defence of
the U.N. Charter against these same
wreckers in a larger theatre of operations.
Mr. Chifiey demands that Parliament
should meet without delay. It will meet
very shortly now, and all too soon for
his shattered following. He controls the
Senate, the implement of obstruction to
the Government’s efforts to lay local
agents of Moscow by the heels. Whether
that obstruction is to persist against the
Communist Suppression Bill, against
sending troops to U.N.O.’s Korean war,
against offering available help in emer-
gency to the United States —which, having
lately saved this country from Asiatic in-
vasion, surely deserved better —Mr.
Chifiey and his rabble of a “Labor” party
will shortly be obliged to declare. The
electors, with eyes well opened, will be
their judges.
What, of a “policy,” is left to the rabble
when U.N.O. (poor a thing as it is) is
ditched consists necessarily of defeatism
and appeasement. While Mr. Chifiey was
denouncing the bartering of Australian
soldiers for dollars, and advocating (but
not to Moscow) that Asians should be
left to their “flaming desire to govern
themselves,” Mr. Calwell leapt into the
Korean argument with a Press statement
that; —
If I were an American I would feel mad,
and bitter, too, at the unanimous failure of
all other member-States of the United
Nations, most of whom are living on the
charity of the American taxpayer [that is,
receiving dollars for services to be rendered]
to send ground forces to help the U.S.
Army in -Korea.
As for Australia I am not so sure
General MacArthur will get much support
from the present Australian Government.
He added that America ought not to “do
all the paying and all the dying to save
the rest of the world from Communist
domination.” But Mr. Calwell was no
more disposed than the rest of the Chifiey
Cabinet either to deal with the “foreign
traitors” t after they had been worsted in
the coal ‘strike last year, or more recently,
in Opposition, to give a fair passage to
the Communist Suppression Bill.
Dr. Evatt used to talk about U.N.O.
as though its invention rights belonged
to the “Labor” party, and at times as
though he were himself its natural father:
If U.N.O. can be kept alive for two or
three more years it may become virtually,
impossible for another shooting-war to
break out within our lifetime [January,
1949].
An integral part of Australia’s foreign
policy [support for U.N.O.] was maximum
co-operation with the United States, espe-
cially in the Pacific and South-East Asia
[March, 1949].
Yet neither he nor any other of Mr,
Chifley’s Ministry maintained in Australia
as much as a battalion ready to serve in
the international force on which U.N.O.
authority must depend, nor had the
Chifiey Government the slightest inten-
tion of providing such a force.
They had no time for such things.
They did not believe in military service for
“supporting U.N.0,” or even for defend-
ing Australia. They did not believe
Soviet Russia to be confirmedly hostile
or the Communist party in Australia to
be Moscow’s organised agents. They saw
international peace being slowly smothered
and Australian industry (that, at least, was
right under their eyes) being rapidly
strangled by the same malevolent foe.
They ignored these symptoms. They
talked about “no peoples desiring war,”
about Communism being merely a “poli-
tical philosophy” (Chifiey) and Com-
munists “following the teachings of
Christ” (Hollway). They were coherent
and definite in favor of one business only
—the prosecution in Australia of “the
class-war.”
The bulk of'the electors pronounced
judgment last December. It remains only
for “the movement” to find them out and
produce leaders who will steer “Labor”
back to a sane Australian policy.
Germany and the West.
With eyes concentrated on the Korean
war peoples and Governments are apt
to lose sight of the fateful Euro-
pean situation. This is particularly true
of Australia. Its world is the Pacific,
and it does not readily appreciate the
importance of Europe in matters of its
own defence.
There can be only one kind of war
which matters to us —a global war. That
war could come about only through
aggression by Russia. The lines
of probable invasion are age-old. They
would certainly at some stage be directed
to reach out and enfold India from north-
east and north-west. Along one line in
eastern Europe, Turkey would obviously
be walled off from possible allies in the
west, while a companion drive, or series
of drives, would enclose the Middle-
Eastern oilfields and Suez and make for
Africa—Turkey and all its little neigh-
bors being crushed and masticated in the
pineer.
In the Far East there would be opera-
tions preliminary to the enclosure ot
India. But there, on the Pacific coasts,
time is not so precious. The vital stage
of the war would be the invasion of
Western Europe. While in some other
areas weeks or months might be avail-
able to build up defence, in Europe there
will not be a moment of grace. In two
days, if they were not checked, the
armored vanguards of the Soviet Union
could be on the Rhine. Their forces will
be huge, even if their technical equip-
ment is not all that it should be.
To meet them there must be available
immediately enough men on the Con-
tinent to hold the attack while resistance
is built up. General Billotte, who has
held office as the military member to the
French delegation to U.N.0., sees the
bare need as 75 divisions, with commen-
surate air-power constructed round the
core of a French force of 35 divisions.
Other authorities stand for a minimum
of 125 divisions at the outset.
Certain it is that the original esti-
mate of the leisurely planners of
Western European defence —35 divi-
sions to defend the Rhine —is all awry,
seeing that the Russians right now could
launch at least 70 divisions ; but even the
35 divisions is more than two-thirds
dream on present manpower enlisted.
Britain has nominally over 700,000
men in the forces, and altogether about
1.000. engaged in defence prepara-
tions, but a very large proportion of
these are half-trained conscripts: raw
youngsters not more experienced than
the American boys who have been
thrown of necessity into the front-line in
Korea.
The United States has fewer than
500.000 in its forces, and is in process of
building the number up to 834,000 —it
last month had 146,000 in Germany and
10.000 in Austria. The French plan
within three years to have about 1,000,000
men in training; but there is not
three years to play with.
Reckoning on the accepted U.S. Army
basis, the division “slice” — i.e., the num-
ber of men needed to keep a division in
the field, counting in personnel at corps
and army headquarters —is about 40,000.
But this is no real criterion. The United
States in the last war enlisted well over
8.000. men to produce 91 divisions in
four years.
It is obvious that Western Europe is in
a position of insecurity, and, outside
France, there is no Continental Power in
the present combination which could be
of much use in sudden emergency, Italy is
a heavy liability instead of an asset, and
large forces would have to be kept there
in the event of invasion to protect the
country against its internal fifth-column.
Yugoslavia is an unknown quantity. So
is Spain.
It is essential that trained men should
be available on the Continent. The great
bulk of troops and their equipment
raised in Britain and the United States
and Canada would have to be carried by
sea, whereas those raised in Europe are
on the spot and used to European condi-
tions.
Moreover, those of Mr. Attlee’s
4.000. experienced men who can be
mobilised on short notice will be needed
to assure that, whatever happens onr the
Continent in the first few weeks of a
war, Britain does not go under.
Britain would be the only base which
the Russians could not reach on foot or
wheel and which could be used as the
assembly-point for the recovery of the
West if it should be overrun in the way
in which the enemy swept through
France in 1940.
The one source of useful manpower
which remains untouched is in Western
Germany. If the Western democracies
do not arm the West Germans
the Russians will —or if the West
Germans were able to avoid fight-
ing for the Russians in their present sub-
jugated condition the Soviet would at
least apply their industrial resources to
the purposes of Communist world-
conquest.
Western Germany, which has been
divided from the rest of the old
Reich for five years, is in such a
condition economically as to be a danger
to the safety of civilisation if not handled
discreetly. West Germany’s population
in 1939 numbered 39,350,000 people.
Despite the almost complete overthrow
of its economy during the war and the
heavy drain of reparations the population
has increased to over 47,000,000, mainly
because of an influx of millions of Ger-
mans from the east,
Although the recovery of West German
industry has been striking, and the pro-
duction-index for March was up to 1936
level and standards of living and con-
sumption almost up to pre-war levels,
there were 2,000,000 unemployed in the
Federation, more than a quarter of them
young men between the ages of 18 and
So far from allowing the Germans any
chance to prepare defence, the Allied
High Commission on May 8 codified the
law to prevent rearmament, making it
effective for a year from June 1 and pro-
viding heavy penalties for attempts to
rearm, while at the same time efforts
were being made to bring about the re-
uniting of East and West Germany. This
seems a hopeless task in view of the atti-
tude adopted by the Russians in their
declaration in May, when, among the con-
ditions for all-German elections they in-
sisted that licensed political parties only
should have the right to nominate candi-
dates and on a free hand for Communist
organisations in the West.
Opinion in favor of rearming
Western Germany-for defence has been
strengthening considerably since the de-
velopment of an East German Army
under Russian tutelage, and even the
French have come to the point at which
General Billotte could commit himself to
the statement that “massive rearmament
was necessary as well as large-scale par-
ticipation of the Anglo-Saxon countries,
and the inclusion of Spain, Turkey,
Greece and Germany in the. Western de-
fence area,” though he added that if, “as
a matter of life and death,” Germany
were admitted, its integration “should be
conditional to French military superi-
ority.”
The Western Powers will soon have to
face the inevitable alternatives. A
nation of 47,000,000 people which holds,
among other war potential, the Ruhr,
and which is right in the path of prob-
able invasion, cannot be left much longer
in its present position. It cannot avoid
being either with us or with the in-
vaders. And on the swiftness with which
the problem is handled the fate of the
world may depend.
Wine Standards.
“Vino del Pais”: All wine-lovers will
be delighted to learn from Mr. Kenneth
Hardy, of the Australian Wine Board,
that the quality of the 1950 vintage will
not suffer from this season’s abnormal
weather.
I am looking forward, with pleasurable
anticipation, to the time, possibly in 1954,
when this year’s vintage of Hunter River
white wines should be at its best, and I
expect these wines to equal, if not sur-
pass, the finest in a similar class that
either Bordeaux or the Rhine can pro-
duce —to say nothing of South Africa
and Chile.
It is to be hoped, however, that the
individual characteristics of 1950 Hunter
River will not be masked by blending,
however skilful, and that the wine
chemists’ activities will be confined to
routine tests and operational control.
That does not mean, of course, that any
single bottle of vintage-1950 wine bear-
ing a distinctive label should differ,
markedly, from any other bottle of
identical description; but it should be
distinguishable from, say, vintage 1948.
I still hold, as a simple wine-drinker
and with all respect to Mr. Hardy’s much
greater knowledge and experience, that
blending should be reserved for the so-
called “beverage” wines where “con-
sistency of flavor, year in, year out”
overrides individuality. I
The increase in British wine duty and
the reduction of Empire preference has,
undoubtedly, been an important factor
in lowering the consumption of Aus-
tralian wines in Britain ; South African
wines, however, have suffered the same
handicap, but their sales have not de-
creased in the same proportion. This
fact can hardly be attributable to the
effect on the price per bottle of the
higher freight charge from Australia.
Personally, I consider it due to the de-
terioration in quality of some of the Aus-
tralian wines marketed in Britain, pre-
sumably allowed with the object of
underselling competitors.
Up to 1939 a sound Australian bur-
gundy could be bought in London a
around 2s. 6d. a bottle (reputed quart),
and it held its own against a Spanisn
product sold at 2s. 3d. ,
In 1948 one of the cheapest natura
burgundies on the London market was
Australian. It retailed at 9s. A feu° w '
exile who split a bottle with me describe
it as “plonk,” and I agreed that it de-
served the epithet, ,
Now that adequate reserves of g°°
blending stocks are available I w’oul
suggest that some means be found
prevent any “plonk”-type wines fro*“
going overseas. If they do, a furth
reduction in export sales maty
expected.


PLAIN ENGLISH
V.P.-Day Reflections.
V.P.-Day this year completed Australia’s
first five years of post-war reconstruction,
practically all under the Chifley Govern-
ment, and half of it under the Socialists’
40-hour week.
The five years began with Mr. Chifley
as Prime Minister heralding a “golden
age” for Australia. It closed with the
worst inflationary gale this country has
ever known, with preparations for
another world war in full train, and with
inhabitants of the capital cities suffering
worse deprivations in shortages of gas and
electric power than even under war-time
rationing. Never were, Australian ports
so congested because of the slowed-
down turning-round of ships and Aus-
tralian coastal shipping industry so de-
pressed. House-building entered the
luxury trades, with the simplest cottage
growing beyond the financial means, un-
assisted, of “the best-paid workers in the
world” (“Labor” election advertisement).
City food prices at the end of the five
years were those of communities under
an enemy’s siege.
All the democracies, for whom war
was supposed to have made the world
safe, were in much the same case, except
the principal non-Socialist and hard-
working country, the United States. They
were to rely for peace —and the oppor-
tunity of peaceful prosperity—upon that
leading product of the war (and the worst
failure of all) the United Nations, raised
on a charter to assure to all “freedom
from want and freedom from fear,”
There was never less freedom from
either, and the new armed aggressor
threatens universal war under the appall-
ing slogan of world-dominion for the
Slave State. V.P.-Day itself was born
of the atom-bomb, and each anniversary
has seen the shadow of that bomb
extend.
The old-world countries of Europe and
Asia, lacerated by the war, had some
excuse, perhaps, in their exhaustion for
neglect of precautions. In them post-
war reconstruction was a most urgent
business if their economic life was to be
revived. But Australia had no such
handicap. The opportunity offered here,
as in the United States, to generate under
the most favorable non-competitive con-
ditions a powerful industrial nation and
international market. It was wasted. The
Australian electors chose a Government
bent only on erecting a Socialist economy,
with less work for higher wages and the
Government ousting progressively every
“capitalist” employer.
It has taken the voting majority five
years to realise its mistake. What
the 40-hour week alone did to Australian
standards of work and living can be read
at a glance from the graphs illustrating
the Commonwealth’s official business
statistics. Vital indexes whose effect is
reflected in everybody’s daily life show
this rake’s progress:
Retail Wages
prices. Nominal. Real.
1936-39 .. 1000 1000 1000
1945-46 ~ 1278 1343 1051
1947-48 .. 1393 1565 1123
1950 .. 1682 1927 1146
Employment is, of course, “full” —that
is to say, work is surplus to workers.
Since the 40-hour week came in, numbers
employed have risen by 260,000, two-
fifths of that increase in Government
jobs, which .now absorb over 650,000
persons.
The wreath Australia lays on V.P.-Day
should be on the grave of our lost oppor-
tunity.
Our Korean "Force."
The muddle which seems to surround the
sending of an Australian force to Korea
augurs poorly for any major military
effort which may have to be hurriedly
arranged to meet an emergency.
Volunteers were called for before any
plans had been made, and applicants were
told finally that they would have to re-
volunteer on a basis different from the
original one.
The response, both initial and
secondary, was poor. Little Maoriland,
with under 2,000,000 people, closed its
lists with 5942 volunteers on August 5.
In N. S. Wales (which has a million more
people than New Zealand) the total num-
ber who had offered to August 7 was
1560, and these began to be taken into
camp in batches of a whole 40 a day, the
first on August 8, when it was announced
that the initial Australian contingent for
Korea would be made up of 600 men
from 8.C.0.F., with 400 trained volun-
teers from the Permanent Army, who are
to be flown to Japan for final training.
A second force of 1000 ex-servicemen is
to be “recruited and trained.” There is,
however, some talk at Lake Success of a
U-N.O. force of 40,000, out of which
Australia and N.Z. would ultimately
produce half.
On August 10, at Ottawa, Mr.
Menzies was reported as saying that
the size of the Australian ground force
had not been fixed, and that it had not
been decided whether it would operate
under separate command. He has since
been to Japan and is to visit New Zea-
land this week, perhaps to discuss there
whether the Australian and Maoriland
forces will be integrated. That would be
the sensible method of proceeding, and
in accord with the ideas of the N.Z. Chief
of the General Staff, Major-General
Stewart, who has been in Australia to
discuss the matter.
On the present statistics it is idle to
talk of separate commands for Aus-
tralian troops, since to keep the force
separate and with its own organisation
would mean that not more than a couple
of companies could be maintained in the
front line on present anticipated num-
bers. In any case, if a dozen “United
Nations” are to send small detachments
under separate commands the result will
be sheer chaos.
There is little for Australia to be proud
of in the position. The stark fact is that
this country, whose Foreign Ministers
for the past five years have been attempt-
ing to take the leadership of the Pacific
area, is prepared to send to Korea im-
mediately less than half the number of
FIVE YEARS AFTER V.P.-DAY.
troops which Turkey is prepared to send, their eyes, would be a black mark
Unfortunately our other defence mea- against it.
sures seem to be in proportion to those so
far announced for Korea.
Torquay Conference.
From Auckland: Big-shots in trade have
been trying to rouse New Zealanders to
be ready for a battle when Empire
preference and old-established rights in
Britain’s market come under' bombard-
ment at Torquay next month. They have
been telling Maorilanders it will be the
biggest challenge yet to trade as they’ve
known it.
One of Britain’s economic leaders, H.
Drummond-Wolff, vice-chairman of the
Empire Economic Union, who tested the
pulse of Maoriland feeling on the spot
early in August, said Korea hadn’t made
the outlook brighter for Empire trade-
negotiators, but was a whip in the hand
of outside advocates of “world unity.”
These outsiders could see a chance to
line all up on a common front. Small
boys, like New Zealand, might have to
sit quiet at the conference.
Said Drummond - Wolff: “Imperial
preference is not a selfish road to fol-
low if it is accompanied by modified
most-favored-nation treatment, which
will encourage foreign countries to fol-
low suit. I have no doubt that we shall
choose the course of Imperial preference,
and we should do it now without delay.
It would consolidate the British Com-
monwealth and help it to face the com-
ing tests of strength. Also, it would
greatly reduce the threat of partial
Socialism at home and of total Socialism
in the international field. We should
consolidate our own Commonwealth
method of co-operation and do all we
can to assist its extension to the rest of
the world. We must adhere unswervingly
to Imperial preference and to the
sovereign rights of each member of the
Commonwealth,
“By abandoning discrimination and
working for reciprocity by the co-opera-
tive exercise of sovereignty the Com-
monwealth will be able to assure the
survival of the British Empire, shorten
the period of war, guarantee rapid and
effective post-war recovery and make
provision for future world unity and
peace.”
Americans, of course, have to think
of what will follow the Korean flare-up
and squaring of accounts with Russia;
but so have Britain and family. If, how-
ever, Americans think this is a favor-
able chance for putting the pressure on
there are some Yanks who don’t. H. J.
Heinz, chairman of the U.S. Council of
the International Chamber of Commerce,
said lately his executive didn’t like the
Havana Charter. His council figured out
that many problems which beset coun-
tries in the early post-war years would
disappear if allowed time, and that a
good many Government controls would
go, too. In the Charter the framers were
too preoccupied with their own economic
troubles, which were mostly temporary.
This wouldn’t promote efforts to bring
all together and build up a single world-
trade system.
Most Maorilanders, fed-up with con-
trols, inflation, exchange-pegging and
economic isolation and insulation under
the Socialists, were able to echo approval
of these sentiments. If the Havana
Charter stood to any degree in the way
of escape from these handicaps this, in
Homing to Moscow.
Moscow’s “peace conferences” at War-
saw and Peking are temporarily the
leading overseas attractions for Aus-
tralian Communists. One way or
another, they are all rushing for pass-
ports overseas.
The Federal Government has can-
celled one—Thornton’s, the man being
now in Peking—and refused another
to Cunningham, of the “Eureka
Youth,” to the same place. Peking
is where the Soviet’s eastern Comin-
form has been set up and is guid-
ing the Soviet’s eastern satellites in
spreading the “peace” crusade into
Korea —accompanied by heavy Russian
tanks and caterpillar-tracked field guns.
Healy of the watersiders and Elliott
of the seamen also want passports for
one or other of these “peace” confer-
ences. Victorian branch of the Rail-
ways’ Union wants to send a delegate
to Warsaw, and (strangely enough) the
individual tipped for the mission is
Communist J. J. Brown, perpetual chief
executive of that organisation, being
also returning-officer for the union ballot
that elects him. Hughes, of the Clerks’
Union, reported the other day to be
“quitting” in disagreement with the Com-
munist party, or it with him, apparently
wants to carry the dispute to Warsaw,
too. His executive recently resolved that
three delegates from the union should
attend the “peace conference” there;
whereon members of the union, evidently
thinking this prospective draft on funds
a bit hot, is “in revolt” against the whole
business and asking the Federal Gov-
ernment to refuse passports to Hughes
or any of them.
There is one of the “peace” brother-
hood who won’t get the joy-ride. The
“leading Communist in South Australia,”
N. Carruthers of the gasmen’s union,
sent there from Sydney four years ago,
has just been expelled from the Com-
munist party because of “gross neglect
of his political. . . .duties” and being
judged “unstable.”
The Government ought to put its foot
down on this business, and, till the Anti-
Red Bill can become law, refuse pass-
ports to all known Communists. Then,
when they can be removed from union
executives, it could give them a one-
way ticket to Russia whether they want
it or not.
Tea and Cake.
What with the price of tea and the
constant threat of having to pay more
money for it, anybody who threatens to
grow tea in this country is likely to
find himself more popular than a fashion-
able jockey. “North Queensland
Register” has discovered an ex-Sinhalese,
A. W. Jayasuria, who came to the Ingham
(N.Q.) district years ago, has already
grown tea there, and now has “been
granted a 20-years’ lease of 50 acres on
the Mt, Spec range” to grow more of it.
The location is about 50 miles north
of Townsville, 2000 ft. up, tropical, and
assured of plenty of rain. The tea Mr.
Jayasuria has grown was on Herbert
River flats, but he says it was bitter and
without a “good flavor.” All the same,
the plants thrived, and he expects the right
flavor from the mountain-side tea. Cost
of pla'nting works out at about £5OO an
acre, beginning with the clearing, but a
tea-plant will last 70 to 80 years with care.
This is all very nice and promising, but
before anybody runs away with visions
of the N.Q. mountains clothed in tea like
the hills of Ceylon a lot of things have to
be considered.
Not the least is the fact that • Aus-
tralians were able to buy tea cheaply for
so many years because it was grown on
cheap land by ample cheap labor, pro-
cessed in bulk by the same cheap labor
and usually carted to this country by
cheap labor. There’d be nothing like that
in an Australian teagrowing industry.
Even with mechanical pickers (and
experts say hand-picking gives the best
tea) cost of production alone under our
high-wage system would make the stuff
a luxury.
That it is becoming a luxury when im-
ported from countries where nothing like
the same costs of labor operate is signi-
ficant not only of the prospects of tea-
growing in Queensland but of the whole
prospect of a nation bent on luxury-
living all the way from the cradle to the
grave. We can no more have our tea and
drink it, too, than we can our cake.
0- I
Robbery on the Food Front.
“C.S.”: You can’t walk around Sydney
without seeing inspectors at work. The
place is full of them. Uniformed and
plainclothes officials wait to pounce on
anybody who parks a car, crosses a street
at a tangent, puts a rubbish-bin in the
wrong place, lights the gas or burns
more than two electric lights in “pro-
hibited” hours, sells beer or tobacco or
groceries after other “prohibited” hours,
sells an egg or a fish without Government
permission, builds a house without that
same permission, sells fruit or vegetables
from an unlicensed barrow, looks like a
truant or a neglected child, works on a
job without a union ticket or plays bag-
pipes in Martin-place. There’s more, but
that’s sufficient.
All these people, be it noted, are em-
ployed at the public expense to stop the
public from doing things ; nothing like
the same number of officials is em-
ployed to stop people from doing the
public. And the Sydney public, above
all others in Australia, is being properly
done in the eye just now, particularly
in the matter of food prices, which are
at scandalous levels.
Purveyors of fruit and vegetables (an
apple can cost 4d. to Bd.; the lowly
spinach was up to 3s. sd. a bunch in
Sydney last week) blame the floods,
which obviously have affected recent
prices; but food prices have been too
high for years, and evidence is not want-
ing that somebody is taking a large rake-
off in profits. Last year, when Sydney
was paying up to sd. each for oranges,
it was announced that they were being
ploughed-in on the M.1.A.; last week
a Gosford grower, 50-odd miles from
Sydney, gave away 180 cases of oranges
because he made only Bd. a case On a
previous lot sent to Sydney.
The city has an ocean at its front door,
but fish, a staple article of diet in most
seaside cities, is a luxury in Sydney,
though there are herds of inspectors to
see that nobody catches fish and sells it
other than to “operators” in the city
markets, where riots between fish mer-
chants and Government chaps are fre-
quent occurrences.
Plainly, there is a vast and growing
food-price racket in Sydney, most of
((Continued on next page.)


mm
m
/
CRAVEN A”
—for your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable in
10's & 20 s
CARRERAS LTD.-OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
€i
A
6745
whose \\ million people are at the mercy
of these “operators.” Producers loudly
assert that they don’t get enough to make
the game pay; retailers are equally
vehement that they don’t. Somewhere
between producer and consumer are
rapacious raking in dispropor-
tionate profits, and market “operators’
are even defying a Government order
not to slap a “levy” of 3d. a case on all
stuff they handle.
For months the responsible Minister
has been threatening to do something, but
about all he does is talk. There are
enough accountants and economists in
Government employ, Heaven knows, and
the obvious duty of the Government is
to turn some of them loose to find out
and make public where the profits go
and why the , present marketing system is
such a wasteful, costly racket. No com-
munity should be short of oranges while
they are being ploughed-in on citrus
groves 50 miles away. //
POLITICAL POINTS
Sydney branch of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation, which is affiliated
with the Red W.F.T.U., has approved the
appointment of its Federal secretary
Healy as a delegate to the Communist-
run Warsaw “Peace” Conference at
which Comrades from all over the world
will be briefed in the part they have to
play in bringing “peace,” Russian style, to
their own countries. Clerks’ Union sec-
retary Hughes is also listed for a trip to
Warsaw, along with two of his cronies,
but the rank-and-file of his union doesn’t
seem very pleased; several Sydney
groups have protested against the jaunt,
also against their executive’s decision to
affiliate with the Democratic Rights
Council. Rather a belated awakening,
but better late than never. If Healy,
Hughes and Co. are wise they will not
bet too heavily on that Warsaw trip ;
there’s still a little matter of passports to
be fixed up.
There was a rumor last week that
Hughes was about to resign from the
Communist party. “Resignation” of
Hughes or any other Red union-boss at
the present time should be taken with a
couple of bagsi of salt; with the Korean
war bringing home to unionists the real
danger of having Moscow-minded leaders
and the Anti-Rad bill coming up for l the
second time next month, it is only to be
expected that some of the Comrades will
be thrown out of the party to work for
it in the guise of reformed characters.
The Democratic Rights Council,
whose main concern seems to be the
rights of Communists to undermine
democracy, is having difficulty in keeping
its list of overseas visitors up to date.
First publicity for its September
“Assembly of Human Rights” in Mel-
bourne announced that Henry Wallace
would be present. Later announcements
omitted his name. In between the two
releases Henry had condemned the
Moscow line on Korea; he has since
resigned from the Progressive party, of
which he was the leader. Wallace may
be addle-pated, but apparently he’s still
American at heart. The Council next
billed Paul Robeson. A little confusion
there; secretary Rich said Paul had
accepted, but president Hartley said he
had declined. Perhaps they were both
right; Uncle Sam had withdrawn Robe-
son’s passport.
An indication of the inflation of Aus-
tralia’s currency was contained in a state-
ment on note-issue figures put out last
week by the Commonwealth Statistician.
At the end of June five-pound notes to
the value of £95 million were outstanding,
compared with £65 million in one-pound
notes. Corresponding figures just before
the war were £ll million; £2O million.
What the Statistician can’t tell us is what
proportion of those fivers are hidden
away in safe-deposits and jam-tins.
“Labor's” puppet-Government in Vic-
toria continues on its obedient way—
“ Yes, Mr. Cain; no, Mr. Cain” —just
like Mr. Deakin to Mr. Watson in an
ignoble period of early Federal politics.
Following the reduction of the Legis-
lative Council franchlsc, ;he All-farmer
Ministry is preparing a bill to create a
single Great Melbourne Council —like
Brisbane’s —the principles of which (says
Premier McDonald) “have not yet been
considered.” He means, no doubt, not
yet approved by his “Labor” masters.
Meanwhile a correspondent in Melbourne
“Age” complains of the puppet-Govern-
ment’s announcement on good “Labor”
lines that it refuses to allow city rents
above the 1940 valuation, while at the
same time the Government demands, for
probate purposes, duty on the highest
1950 values, and denounces property-
owners for not carrying out repairs at
1950 prices.
If “Labor” policy runs true to form a
Greater Melbourne plan would probably
mean compulsory voting, party politics
in municipal affairs and, of course, pay-
ment of aldermen. That’s a long way
from the atmosphere of 1936, when a Mel-
bourne alderman, at the suggestion that
£2OOO should be authorised as expenses
for the Lord Mayor while abroad for
the Coronation, protested that “it would
bring the council down to the level of
the State and Federal Parliaments, where
professional politicians are nothing but
mendicants.” The Lord Mayor objecting
to this remark because he “would not
like it to come as an official statement
from the council,” the alderman withdrew
the word mendicant and substituted
“gentlemen earning a living for them-
selves and their families,”
E, G. Theodore, one-time “Labor”
Premier of Queensland and Federal
Treasurer, who dropped out of the poli-
tical race when Sol Rosevear, then wear-
ing a Lang guernsey, defeated him in
Dailey, left an estate valued for probate
at £528,000. He couldn’t have done
much better than that if he’d stayed in
the “Labor” party.
Priceless item from a Sydney daily on
Monday morning: The Sydney County
Council and the State Government would
take joint action to stop electricity black-
outs next winter, spokesmen said
yesterday.
Note on Dr, Evatt from memoirs of
U.S. Admiral Leahy, Ambassador to
Vichy France during part of World War,
II and later Chief of Staff to President
Roosevelt;
Evatt specifically asked me to tell the
President of the political difficulties being
caused by his Government’s failure to
obtain planes from us He spoke with
an Australian accent that made it difficult
for me to understand, despite my having
been familiar 40 years before with the
x colloquial speech of uneducated inhabitants
of Australia.
It should be explained to the Admiral
that this resort is perhaps necessary when
a shining product of Sydney University
and an ex-judge of the High Court,
making “a great sacrifice” to become an
Australian “Labor” politician, has to pre-
tend (in the telephone book) to live in
Hurstville when in fact he resides at the
top of Sydney’s North Shore line.
Victorian official “Labor” journal,
breaking the news gently, says that when
Federal Parliament meets Chifley and
his last-ditchers may now “cease
opposition” to the Communist-party
Suppression Bill, Korea? No, Chifley’s
own career.
Readers of Sydney’s two afternoon
papers have been able to take their pick
on Korean war reports. Both papers
contain much the same “news” from the
battle-front, but their headline- and
poster-writers differ in their interpreta-
tion of it. Until the U.S. offensive was
launched one paper Was seemingly con-
ditioned by gloom and pessimism and the
other by serene optimism. As posters are
designed to sell papers the two attitudes
probably represent opposing appraisals
of what the public wants. Standing aloof
from the two schools of thought (or,
perhaps, combining the principles of
both) is the “Daily Telegraph,” which one
morning last week announced; “Both
Sides Advance in Korea.”
A neat comment on Chifley’s troops-
for-dollars libel was Frith’s cartoon in
Melbourne “Herald.” It depicted the ex-
Prime Minister in female garb, gossiping
over the teacups with Dame Rumor, who
whispers into his trochus-shejl-like ear.
“And, my dear, I hear that if Menzies
doesn’t get his dollars, he’s going to send
the troops to help NORTH Korea.
H. K. Nock, treasurer of the N.S.W.
Farmers and Settlers’ Association, let go
a wounded yelp over the abolition of the
superphosphate subsidy, alleging it would
cost wheatgrowers £3,500,000 a year. He
didn’t say it would save the taxpayers
that amount, that it was unjustified while
wheat prices remained so high, or that the
duty on wire-netting, barbed-wire and
fencing-wire imported from abroad
would be wiped out this year. Some of
these vocal cockies want it both ways.
The Sydney Minister for Transport has
“directed” the Sydney Railway Commis-
sioner to take possession of any property
which is holding up construction of
Sydney’s Eastern Suburbs railway. Its
construction, according to the Minister,
“is being retarded because of the diffi-
culty of obtaining vacant possession of
resumed buildings and delay in resuming
others.” But the greatest obstacle of the
lot Wren’s stadium, remains untouched.
Jp Mr. Fadden, quoted by a Sydney daily
on the question of more petrol-tax money
for roads;
In considering demands for increased
allocations of petrol tax the Commonwealth
had to bear in mind that part of the tax
was levied in the first place for purely
revenue purposes.
Mr. Fadden should know that this is
wrong. The original tax was made 3d.
a gallon to provide a fund out of which
the building and maintenance of roads
would be financed. That the 3d, has
grown to 10id. by the addition of unem-
ployment - relief and special war - time
taxes, never taken off, though unemploy-
ment ceased 10 and the war five years
ago, is no consolation to the motorist
trying to drive on the ruined and
.neglected roads.
Hugh Roberton, M.H.R. for Riverina,
told the N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers’
Association conference that Minister for
Commerce McEwen had repeatedly
assured him that the Government would
consult woolgrowers before implement-
ing a wool levy to finance a wool-
stabilisation plan. Now, said Roberton,
McEwen says he at no time promised to
take a vote of growers about it. The
whole trouble is that the Government
and some of the woolgrowers rushed
into this stabilisation plan before,
stopping to think about it. Now they’re
like a pedestrian who has ignored the
signals and is caught in a cross-stream
of traffic.
Whatever mysterious secret was con-
tained in the report of the official inquiry
into the explosion at the Town Hall
hotel in Melbourne —Premier McDonald
refused to make the report public “at
this stage”—-will probably be out soon.
The owners of the pub have issued a writ
against the Metropolitan Gas Co. alleging
that the big bang was caused “by the
negligence of the company or by its ser-
vants or agents.”
It appeared in a city paper:
The city tram-fare section will be 2d.
from Monday, and from tomorrow week
cheaper periodical tickets will be effective.
....The new periodical tickets will provide
for a five-day and six-day week.
Sydney? Be your age. It was in
Adelaide “Advertiser,” published in a
city whose trams are run by a public
trust and whose Government consists of
those “enemies of the worker” the
Liberal-Country League,
The boss of the Snowy River hydro-
electric scheme has announced with
obvious pride that it has cost £2,500,000
in its first year. A fearful aspect of these
top-rank Government chaps is the pride
they seem to take in being able to chuck
large hunks of public cash about.
Communist Brown, boss of the Vic-
torian branch of the Railways Union, has
instructed some 250 railwaymen to re-
ject a bonus payment by the Railways
Commissioners as compensation for extra
work done during the most recent Mel-
bourne tram strike called by the
trammies’ Communist boss. Brown con-
demns the bonus as “an incentive pay.
ment.” It is not expected that his “in-
struction” will be obeyed.
Within the space of a week there have
been two calls for a return to Churchill
leadership: Raymond Blackburn, British
Labor M.P., in resigning from the Attlee
party made a plea for a Coalition Gov-
ernment with Winston as Prime Minister.
The other S.O.S. came from Strasbourg,
where Paul Reynaud, ex-Premier of
France, told the European Assembly it
should appoint a European Minister of
War to mobilise Western Europe’s forces
against Communism. Churchill, he said,
was the man for the job.
A Communist speaker quoted in last
Saturday’s “Tribune” on the subject of
indirect taxation:
Indirect taxation is a part of the great
swindle going on to finance the war plans
of the imperialists. An enormous financial
burden is borne by the people. The
Menzies Government draws over 48 per
cent, from indirect taxation and social-
service payments... .Nearly two-thirds of
Soviet income comes not from taxation on
the people but from taxes on the turnover
and deductions from the profits from State
and co-operative enterprises.
In other words, nearly two-thirds of
Soviet income comes from indirect taxa-
tion. It seems that these Communist
speakers get so used to talking through
their hats that they don’t know when
they’re doing it.
Some straight talk from George P.
Delaney, American Federation of Laboi
delegate to the 1.L.0. Conference recently
meeting at Geneva:
American workers believe in high pro-
ductivity. .. .They are not opposed to
greater profits for their employers so long
as their own standard of living rises in
proportion. They have welded a strong
trade-union movement to make sure of such
a sharing of increased output. Under the
give-and-take of free industry and free
labor within the framework of a demo-
cratic society their hours have been reduced
in most cases to 40 a week and they have
better housing, finer food and improved
educational opportunities.
Their effort is not only benefiting them-
selves and making their country strong;
it is enabling U.S.A. to prop up weaker
democracies all over the world.


Caocus
notices
)} PARLIAMENiT
KE-OPE^S:
mm
,Aw
mteF
THE BODY IN THE BAG.
Dead, or just lying down ?


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Irving”: Possession of a late-model
English car of popular make carries its
embarrassments and rewards. Last surf-
ing season when I rejoined my bus one
afternoon after it had been parked for
several hours on the promenade, my
entrance was greeted by horrified squeals
from the two
partly - clad
flappers who
were using the
back seat as a
dressing - room,
I fled in disorder
rather- than pro-
test the right to
be present in my
own vehicle at all times. A few minutes
later from the anonymity of the beach
crowd I saw the now-chastely clothed
lasses enter an identical model of the
same vintage further down the queue.
Less embarrassing, but no less unex-
pected, was a neatly-parcelled half-dozen
of beer, discovered in the boot when pre-
paring for a Sunday picnic-trip. When
the occurrence was repeated a couple of
weeks later I realised that on both
occasions X had parked outside the same
suburban pub on the preceding Friday
night. I’m omitting that hotel from my
next Friday’s itinerary. Not that I’m sick
of bottled beer, but I fear that the
cameraderie engendered by ownership of
identical-model cars would be less potent
than the rage of the rightful owner
bereft of his beer.
* * * ♦
“Sackville St.”: We all have our vices.
I descend from a long line of salt-eaters ;
not mere salt-sprinklers—salt-spreaders.
To us, a meal without salt would be un-
endurable. But we have a hard life. A
visit to a hashhouse always sees us
table-hopping in search of another salt-
shaker —one with a bit of weight in it.
Life at home is little better. My wife
firmly believes that “table salt” will always
flow out of a shaker. Perhaps it would, in
the middle of Sturt’s Stony Desert, but in
our water-logged suburb life for me has
become an endless series of futile shak-
ings, thumpings of the aperture against
the palm of my hand, bangings of the
bottom on the table, and eventual un-
screwing of the top to release the soggy
mess. To make existence even more
complex some nark presented me with a
glass shaker. The first day it encrusted
itself inside with solidified salt. Each day
its capacity grew less, and each day my
howl received the stock answer: “I filled
it this morning—you can see it’s full.”
It mysteriously disappeared; so did the
china and plastic ones. The wife couldn’t
think where she’d mislaid ’em. I helped
her look, then suggested that she put the
salt in a small glass basin affair. To my
amazement she did. But crime doesn’t
pay. Three mornings out of five I’ve
ruined my breakfast “cuppa.” How can
a man tell salt from sugar—when it’s in
a glass basin and he has one eye on the
headlines?
* # * *
“Jalna” gives a few facts about Heard
Island:
Situated almost midway between Australia
and South Africa, in latitude 53deg. s., the
island is about 28 miles long and nine broad
in the widest part; it is the largest of the
Macdonald Group, a barren cluster of islands,
rocks and reefs calculated to make navigation
tricky even in the best of weather. The highest
peak of the island is cone-shaped Mt. Mawson,
a still-active volcano, 9000 ft. high, from whose
ice-covered slopes glaciers sweep down to the
sea, ending in ice-cliffs 100 ft. high. Inlets are
few, and the beaches are either composed of
boulders or are on the windward side of the
island; landings are, therefore, difficult and
hazardous. The best bay and boat-landing is at
Atlas Cove, a fjord on the north-western end of
the island but protected to some extent from
the prevailing westerlies by Cape Laurens
Peninsula. On the other side of Atlas Cove
is Rogers Headland, a barren lava-field where
the expedition has its base camp. The boat-
landing adjacent to the camp is the best on the
island. The conditions about the base camp
at this time of the year will be severe. The
snow will be up to the eaves of the huts —
possibly over the roofs of some; Rogers Head-
land will be a barren, white waste, the inequali-
ties of the ground being smoothed to some
extent by the snow. The sea in the quieter parts
of the bay will be semi-frozen, and small
icebergs from the glacial fronts will be fairly
common off shore. Very little bare ground or
exposed rock will be seen, and the redistributed
moraine to the south of the camp will be a
white waste. Over the camp the ice-encrusted
steel wireless-masts will Stand like frozen
sentries. Of all climatic conditions encountered
on the island the one to which one never seems
to become accustomed is the wind. It blows
mostly from the west—occasionally from the
north-east, but only for short periods before
working back to the west. The velocity is
often very high; several times over a hundred
miles an hour has been registered.
* * * *
“E. Lake”: Our golf club’s annual
mixed foursomes was being played when
we struck Happy A 1 and his wife walk-
ing to the second tee. “How are you
doing?” we called. “All right,” he re-
plied. “Last night I was thinking over
this game and had a horrible nightmare.
Dreamt me and the wife took a 12 on
the first. We’ve just done it in six, so
we’re six up on the nightmare.” And
he went happily onward. They tied for
first place in the handicap section.
• * * ♦
“Clooter”: Weil, I made it. There’ve
been times when it didn’t look as if I
would, and there’ve been people—and
possibly still are people—who couldn’t
care less if I hadn’t. I don’t know if
anybody is the better off for it, with the
possible exception of the tax commis-
sioner ; all the same, I’m glad I made it,
because it was an objective I set myself
a fair while ago. There were disappoint-
ments and defeats on the way, with a
few victories to sweeten them, and among
the latter I remember kicking the win-
ning goal in a football match, catching
a 331 b. cod in the Murray, getting the
missus’s consent to marry me, paying t e
final instalment on a time-payment suit
and buying the seven of hearts to make a
routine flush in a four-bob game with a
full on aces, a straight and three kings
out against me. Another big day was
sight of my first Bulletin par., which,
strangely enough, reminded me of the
day I fought and beat an enemy in
Warrnambool (Vic.) at the age of eight.
There’s a lot more, of course, but why
go on? I’ve made it, and though I still
have to get a hole in one at golf after
“Anyway , THAT one Won't tell any more tales to Mum.”
15 years of playing, the thing is that if
this par. sees print I’ll get enough to
have a couple of beers to celebrate my
50th birthday. Maybe through the
amber color the first half of the 20th
century will look less confusing to one
who has managed to survive it.
* * * *
“T. McN.”: I dips me lid to one lady
who, without trying to be coy or evasive
about it, discovered that her 50th birth-
day was due, got herself photographed
and told her secretary to get the news
out to the Press. She’s a trifle plumper
than when I first saw her 23 years ago,
but she’s as charming as ever and she’s
done a good job. So I dips me lid to
Queen Elizabeth of England, one of the
few women in the world who frankly
admit their ages.
* * ♦ ♦
“Becks”: A request (B. 19/7/’5O) for
information about the inflation of the
German currency after World War I is
my excuse for serving up this old one.
During that war a wealthy German died,
leaving his fortune to be divided equally
between his two sons. Hans was a
thrifty, conscientious bloke with high
ideals; Fritz, a drunkard and a spend-
thrift. When the German Chancellor
called for subscriptions to war loans Hans,
like a good citizen, put every pfennig
he had into bonds. Not so Fritz. His
ambition was to help the brewing industry
to realise record profits; he settled down
to guzzle his way through his fortune as
fast as the brewery wagons could deliver
the stuff at his door. The Armistice
“I'm SURE this has never been done before , darling.”
found him getting close to the end of hia
tether, but still valiantly doing his bit for
the brewers. Hans, heartsick at his
country’s defeat, was at least able to con-
gratulate himself that his bond interest
was safe. Then came the Great Inflation
Hans found that his total holdings in
Government bonds weren’t enough to
buy him a postage-stamp. So much for
thrift and patriotism! Fritz the drunkard,
on the other hand, had drained his last
bottle and had not a pfennig left; he
had, however, kept the bottles. The
mountain of empties in his backyard
now represented real wealth ; as a bottle-
millionaire he was a rich man again. A
phone-call to the breweries set supplies
running once more; they lasted until he
drank himself happily to death several
months after Hans had shot himself.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: Electricians working at
Government House (Sydney) needed a
carpenter to cut a manhole through a
floor. Chips was sent to do the job.
Shown the site of the proposed hole, he
moved a huge table and rolled back the
expensive carpet. There was another
carpet underneath! This he was told
was an old one left down as a base for
the new one; no harm would be done
if he cut through it. At that stage he was
checked in his labors. Some bigwigs
would be dining
in that room
almost immedi-
ately ; would he
remove all his
gear and wait
until the room
was empty again?
Chips ha d a
lunch - hour that
ran into two and a half hours before the
steward give him the O.K-. Returning
to the job he pulled the table away
again, marked the size and position of
the hole, and cut the required hole in the
carpet. When the piece was lifted out
he found another carpet underneath. The
truth was that the steward had put back
the good carpet when fixing the room
for dinner. For the rest of the day a
worried carpenter fought with his
conscience. Should he confess that .he
had ruined a carpet that cost more than
six months’ pay? Or keep quiet until
the storm broke? 4 The latter course won.
Their job finished, the Sparks moved to
another quarter and Chips carefully
tacked the square of carpet back in place.
For months the culprit lived in daily
fear, but nothing happened. Now he
often wonders whether certain persons
were singularly unobservant, or just go o * l
sports.
* * * *
“Melbn”: A live two-inch mortar-
bomb took a circuitous course through
Fishermen’s Bend, Melbourne, site or
aeroplane, motor-car and munitions_ fac-
tories, before making a landing hi a
suburban garden. It was strapped to the
front of a bike ridden by a small boy
who had spotted it lying by the roadside
and had picked it up for further inspeC'
tion. When its character was recognise
by a woman who had lived through the
blitz in Liverpool, England, an Army
bomb-disposal squad took possession or
it. If the boy had vanished in an ex-
plosion on the way home there woul
have been another unsolved mystery to
add to Melbourne’s recent annals.
IF THE COUNCIL WERE A PUB.
These stanzas, taken almost at random from among
the 2000-odd topical pieces Andree Hayward wrote
for The Bulletin, are typical of the fine craftsman-
ship, the light touch and the humor of his comments
on current events. In March, 1936, Coates, M.L.C.,
complained of the condition of the N.S.W. Legislative
Council building, saying that it was so dilapidated
that if it had been a hotel it would have lost its
licence years before.
It’s a tumbledown old shack, there’s'no deny-
ing,
Where our Elder Statesmen help to frame the
laws;
And when shafts of wit across the floor are
flying
There is peril in impetuous applause,
And there’s equal danger in dissentient yelling,
For a sudden burst of catcalls or of cheers
Might crumple up the antiquated dwelling
About its tenants’ venerable ears.
How can they do their duty by the nation,
Or peacefully enjoy their grog and. grub
In surroundings that would vainly challenge
topers’ toleration
If the Legislative Council were a pub?
It’s been propped and patched and tinkered
with and mended
.Till there’s little, precious little, left to show
Of the edifice our granddads found so splendid
Three-quarters of a century ago.
It’s a boot that’s been re-soled, and then re-
uppered;
And it’s bound to go to pieces some fine day,
It would seem (unless it’s charitably scuppered),
All at once—like Wendell Holmes’s “one-
horse shay.”
It provides a very tricky, treacherous wicket
For the Parliamentary game of rub-a-dub;
And the most engaging Bung would summarily
lose his ticket
If the Legislative Council were a pub.
The rhetorician in his most appealing
Periods must pause, the patriot stay his roar,
To cast a cautious glance athwart the ceiling
And tentatively tap the polished floor.
For there’s rot as dry, it’s hinted, in the rafters
As anything that “Hansard” pages show,
And in the House the most persistent grafters
Can give no points to the white-ants below.
Oh, the Boniface would soon encounter friction,
And his customers condemn him for a dub,
Amd his licence prove as worthless as a tinker’s
malediction
If the Legislative Council were a pub!
Poor old Lang, with his unfailing lack of savvy,
Essayed to wreck it —and was badly beat.
Far better had he hired some sturdy navvy
To emulate historic Samson’s feat.
For it’s rickety, it’s tottering, it’s a drifter,
It’s a talk-house in the sere and on the blink;
It’s the sort of place you’d shy at for a snifter,
A joint you’d hardly fancy for a drink.
And yet —and yet —dim memories rise to soften.
Macquacie-street is still old Sydney’s hub,
And there’s lots of us. I’ll venture, would
resort thereto more often
If the Legislative Council were a pub.
T. THE R.


“Hamfat”: The assertion of an
English publication that “a normal cat
would be able to appreciate good poetry
after an education of four years’ re-
minds me of a feline friend of my youth
when I had some repute as an elocu-
tionist. Whenever he heard my voice in
a practice rehearsal of my items Tim
otherwise a singularly intelligent animal—
would arrive in a hurry from wherever
he had been, take the most comfortable
seat he could find and gaze at me with
intense interest during the whole per-
formance, occa-
sionally purring
his applause. I
have known other
cats that seemed
to be pleased by
the cadences of
a mo dulated
voice; but with
Tim this was a
passion. If he
was within earshot when my elocuting
started nothing would keep him away.
One night some visitors had asked for
some Shakspearian excerpts. I was just
doing the ghost scene from “Macbeth,”
putting all the shudder I could into
Avaunt and quit my sight!
Thy bones are marrowless; thy flesh is cold,
There is no speculation in thine eyes
when a terrible unearthly shriek filled
the house. After I had rescued Tim from
the partly-open window which had closed
down on him instead of opening further
as he tried to wriggle through, and the
women who had fainted were restored
to consciousness, ghostly recitations were
off.
♦ * ♦ *
.“Spoke”: Has any regulation been
framed yet that covered every eventuality?
The lady came into the newspaper office
to lodge an advertisement asking for
tenants for a house of only two rooms,
and she had included “Not suitable for
children.” “Can’t say that. Madam,”
said the clerk. “It’s illegal.” “Well, make
it ‘Suitable only for adults,’ ” said the
lady. “Can’t say that either,” said the
clerk. “It means the same thing.”
“Well, make it ‘Only suitable for children
without adults,’ ” said the lady. This
flabbergasted the clerk for a few moments,
but he recovered sufficiently to say that
no reference to children was permitted.
“Well, then,” said the lady, “put in ‘No
mod. cons.’ ” “That’ll, scare everyone
off,” said the clerk. “And you won’t
get any replies at all.” The woman
thought a moment. “I know,” she said.
“I won’t advertise it at all. I’ll put a
‘To Let’ notice in the window and when
they come along I’ll tell them myself.”
» * * *
“Bo”; The potholes which the
torrential rain gouged in the streets of
Sydney suburbs weeks ago not only re-
main for the most part unfilled, but sub-
sequent pounding by buses and the big
transport trailers have made many wider
and deeper. Night-driving in suburbs
you don’t know intimately has become a
nightmare, with always the prospect of
a broken axle looming if one approaches
any bridge at more than five m.p.h. In
one outer suburb I traverse occasionally
the tramway authorities have abandoned
the tracks (buses now ply the route) and
with them any intention of attending to
that part of the roadway encompassed
between the rails and 18in.' out from
each outer rail, as they are allegedly
obliged to. Traffic forced into the centre
of ffie road by parked cars crawls at
snail’s pace while trying to dodge the pot-
holes. One fed-up car-owner made his
protest when an overnight shower filled
one deep pothole. Next morning a
notice-board stuck in it warned that
“fishing prohibited in peak hours.”
♦ * * *
“Bosun’s Mate”: These writing boys!
Shellbacks who have beaten round the
Horn in a 65-knot blow. War II seamen
who pushed their ice-sheathed cruisers
and destroyers up to 72 degrees north
and rounded North Cape for the ice-
flanked run down to Murmansk, and men
of the Antarctic expedition ship Labuan,
who take a jaunt to Heard Island as
casually as a trip to Manly, will heave
collective sighs of relief and pride that
H.M.A.S. Australia has at last made it.
And this despite the “occasional wave
slapping over the bows,” the “sheets of
spray sweeping the bridge,” the 32-knot
cruiser “pepping-up her speed to 16
knots” and, most hideous danger of all,
the possibility of her oil-fuel freezing into
a solid cargo of ice, or whatever oil-fuel
freezes into. Perhaps destroyer Warra-
munga’s captain had in mind the wave-
by-wave description of Australia’s saga
when he answered a shore-bound re-
porter’s query in Sydney with: “I don’t
want to talk any
bunk about what
we will do until we
have proved our-
selves.”
* *
“AGP.”: You
can do almost any-
th in g with a
Gurkha except
insult his pride ; do
that, and you’re
asking for trouble.
With a real or
imagined wrong
the little brown
man may brood
over it until the
time comes when
he sees red. Ex-
perienced officers
in India would spot
at once a man who
wasn’t grinning
some part of the
day and would ask
the cause; perhaps
the local sooth-
sayer had given the
little Gurkha a bad
reading, drained
him of his money
and hoped for
more to restore his
optimism. But I
recall a case where
a man had been
given 28 days—
unjustly he believed
—and he brooded
over that red-ink
entry until one
evening, when he
was on guard, the officer who
had charged him approached. He was a
maddened soldier then. He pointed his
rifle and started to fiddle with the trigger.
He fired a shot that missed and then
cleared out to a sandhill. He killed two
Gurkha officers who tried to approach
him, and the position was so serious the
colonel decided to attack him with the
whole battalion. The little chap fought
his own war against 800, and was finally
bombed to death. And all because of a
red-ink entry in his pay-book.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Salvation Army people in
Launceston are congratulating them-
“Yes, that's the view."
selves on the possession of a new drum,
the only one of its kind in Australia-
Built from a special type of wood, it
plays in tune and can be tuned to the
pitch of the band. In the matter of tuning
drums the Torres Strait islanders have
a simple device for “pitching” their in-
struments, which are hollowed-out chunks
of wood usually made and supplied by
their New Guinea neighbors in exchange
for big arm-shells or “cash-money”—in
the old days it was skulls. On the lizard-
skin head are numbers of small knobs of
black wax; these, heated gently over the
coals, cause the skin to tighten until the
soft-padding fingers or palm of the
operator produces the desired note to
bring it into harmony with the others.
* * * *
“Jasby”; Those color-patches (B.
9/8/’5O). Joining a 6th Divvy unit in
New Guinea in 1943 we found the old
hands very much browned off; several
months as wood-and-water-joeys m
Moresby had taken the gloss off their
Middle-East glory. The regiment, they
assured us, was the worst outfit in the
A.1.F.; give them half a chance and
they’d swap with anyone, anywhere, just
to get away from it. They were so earnest
about it that we believed they meant it,
and I’m sure they believed themselves.
Then one day there was almost a mutiny
in the camp. New color-patches had
arrived at the Q-store, and in every tent
men were vowing they’d go to clink
before they’d wear ’em. And this time
they did mean it. The patches were not
the colors of their own despised regiment,
but those of the 11th Division, then
exercising a kind of a sort of authority
over all troops in the Moresby area. The
furphy was that all Moresby troops had
to wear the patch. What truth there was
in the story I know not, but there wasn’t
a malcontent in the whole regiment who
didn’t swear they could shoot him before
they’d change his old patch. Back went
the new regalia to headquarters.
* * * *
“Kelms”: No need to go back to 1871
to get a meal for sixpence (B. 26/7/’5O).
In Perth you’d have got one in the 1930’5.
A good, solid meal, too, and if the clientele
wasn’t exclusive, you didn’t mind. True,
we didn’t get turkey, but who wanted it?
We got meat and vegetables; and you
wouldn’t walk into a butcher s or a
greengrocer’s shop in Perth now and
expect to get anything for a zac.
* * * *
“Zake”: He was evidently one of those
who, once they make up their mind to do
a thing, have to do it right away, and with
him that applied to bringing home pur-
chases. Still, he was game bringing the
small aquarium home in the peak-hour
train rush. His only concession to
prudence had been to take half the water
out of it, but it was complete with gold-
fish The fun really started when he
tried to get on the little feeder bus that
plies from our outer-suburban station,
but in the end hp succeeded in parking
his new hobby in among the forest of
legs just behind the .driver’s seat. The
denizens of his aquarium came out with
most of the water at the first sharp turn,
and for the rest of the journey he knelt
down, after he had recovered them from
among the boots, and kept the aquarium
tilted with the cupful of water left in it
so that his charges might survive. They
did —just. Everyone knows him now by
the monicker the bus-driver fastened on
to him: Clancy of the Overflow.
* * * *
“Derwent”; Customers of a Hobart
grocer were asked to “Make the order
a good one” when he called on his rounds
the other day. When the goods were duly
delivered the usual docket was missing.
Asked about its whereabouts, the food-
provider laughed and said “That’s all
right—forget it.” It transpired that he’d
won a prize in Tatts and was making a
free distribution of all items ordered in
that week. Housewives who had thought
he was merely trying to boost trade are
now commiserating with one another for
not having taken his tip and put in a
thumping big order.
Sc s= * *
“H.A.L.”: A party of scientists had
gathered for a film evening, but when the
show started a gay tune came out of the
amplifier, and upon the screen appeared
the head of Mickey Mouse. The pro-
jector was stopped, there was a hasty
examination of the cans of film, then an
embarrassed operator announced that,
“for some inexplicable reason,” the films
were not those
“whose titles appear
on the outside of the
containers.” After a
pause somebody
moved that, as they
had come there to
see some films, they
might as well see
those which had
been sent along. It
was seconded, carried and soon the
scientists were laughing just as heartily
as “ordinary” people would at the antics
of Mickey, Goofy, Donald Duck and
Tom and Jerry. In another part of the
city this same good-natured tolerance was
not exhibited by the guests at a children's
birthday-party who had been led to be-
lieve that they would be shown some film
cartoons, but who were delivered such
subjects as “Mating Cycles of the
Coleoptera.”
NO RICE.
“Whatever hope Australia had of freeing rice from
control has gone. Any excess has to go towards
makinff up 100,000 tons of Korean' rice denied to
Asians by the Korean war.”
It seems that the Korean war
Has tnuddled-up our Mess,
For we, who had no rice before,
Will have to do with less:
“Well, here’s another worry!”
The weary housewife cries;
“Unless we give them curry,
They’ll never give us rice.”
We can’t have rice at any price,
Or pay the price of meat;
The Sydney gas supplies suffice
To cook what food we get!
The calmest man, by Gad, he
Is pardoned if he yields
To getting in a paddy
On Korean paddy-fields!
But still, we can’t expect to last
With policies of drift,
For while invading troops hold fast
The rice is to the swift—
More Eastern ricial brawling
May take us by surprise,
And that’s why we’re forestalling
Such risings with our rice.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
NOT UNDERSTOOD.
“Among derogatory remarks you often hear from
people viewing for the first time expressions of sur-
realism or other modern media are the common ones
that they lack beauty and a planned set-out. These
are baseless.” —Article on modern art.
That canvas there upon the wall
Should hold in thrall
Its viewers, for, the painter claims,
It’s something vital.
The most unusual subject, though,
You may not know,
In nowise blatantly misnames
The vivid title.
“Concentric Love”: that’s what it’s called.
Don’t be appalled.
The name has really quite a point,
If you would strain it.
But if you’ve doubts, and you can spare
A week or there-
Abouts, go to the artist’s joint
And he’ll explain it.
The green eviscerated cat
With blue wings that
Grasps in its six enormous claws
A baby’s bootie
The while it listens at a phone
Held by a crone
Is something that must win applause
For perfect beauty,
Especially when it’s grouped beside
A fish astride
The purple forepart of a horse
Pushing a trolley, ,
With here and there some feathered hoops,
Two sugar-scoops,
A skeleton that’s sending Morse
Under a brolly.
Some people, you will always find,
Will have a mind
For subjects like a lovely maid,
Or landscape sunny.
Surrealists, who get visions ripe
From beer and tripe.
Know that this tastes not only staid,
But rather funny.
And should you think the canvas that
You’re looking at
Was slapped together without plan
You’d cast a stigma
Unjustly. Why! , He thought it Out,
Without a doubt, -
But what with (if the work you 11 s.an)
Is an enigma.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Horseless H.”; The wonder is that
snake-catcher Keith Budden, who was
bitten by a taipan a couple of weeks ago,
lived long enough to die in Cairns
hospital. These glistening tan outsizes in
wrigglers are in a class of their own. It
isn’t that they’re particularly aggressive,
or that they carry a greater proportion
of venom than any other poisonous
snake. What makes them so deadly is
the great power of their biting-apparatus.
Their fangs are iin. to |in. long and,
having the grooves nearly closed, they
can penetrate a boot and still inject a
full dose of venom. Snake-killing dogs
I’ve seen bitten in tussles with tigers and
other snakes have carried on the fight
actively for 15 to 20 minutes before the
rigors set in. My best blue-heeler, after
a jab from a taipan, was dead in a few
minutes. Dogs dosed with taipan-serum
get the staggers within a minute.
* * * *
“Bo”: “You didn’t take on that bloke
looking for work that I sent along to
you this morning,” remarked his neighbor
to Dad when he met him in the township
in the afternoon. “He was pretty hefty
and looked as if he might be useful.”
“Knew right away he’d be no use to me,”
remarked Dad. “I could see he was a
boot-looker.” “A what?” asked his
neighbor, puzzled. “Just what I said,”
went on Dad. “Shuffled along lookin’ at
his boots. Those cows are never any
good. I had a bloke like that some years
ago, before you came here, and I swore
I’d never have another. Always had his
eyes glued to his boots or within a few
inches of ’em; wouldn’t even look up
when he was feedin’. I told him to cut
an ironbark down once. Muster bin nearly
four foot through. He socks into it all
the mornin’ an’ just on dinner-time it
starts to creak an’ he bolts for cover. He
don’t have to go far. It was an old stump
about eight foot high he’d bin beltin’ inter
instead o’ the ironbark, an’ there’s about
four foot o’ dead timber for his momin’s
work! ”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: “Helldud’s” par.
about the use of tea-tree for shipbuilding
(B. 19/7/’5O) set the wheels of memory
turning—slowly at first, but surely. Cadji-
but —of course! That’s a type of tea-tree
which flourishes throughout North
Westralia, from Three Springs to the
Kimberleys, and perhaps, for all I know,
across to Queensland. It’s greatly
sought after for building ships up to
about 30 or 40 tons; the bent limbs with
their tough timber lend themselves to the
fashioning of knees and stays. Cadji-
but provided quite an industry for the
north some 30-odd years ago. The tree
differs from the southern “paperbark”
in some respects —the bark isn’t quite as
loose, and the foliage, though similar, is
close and inclined to droop, providing
excellent shade and shelter. One at
Willawidgie provided a home for an old-
timer. The only “building” on his place
was an upturned 1000-gallon tank in
which he kept his stores while he lived
beneath the tree, “Aw, not bad, mate,”
was his unfailing reply to a salutation.
“Just sittin’ on a box starvin’.” He was
worth thousands, and in some mysterious
way added to it yearly.
sis * * *
“P.C.A.”: “Salmon Gums” (B.
19/7/’5O) says Westralian fishermen want
to know if the cray enters the pot head-
er tail-first to get the bait. Head-first,
of course,
with the
feelers folded
back along
the back, at
the same time
using its tail
to hang on
whilst it
negotiates the
neck of the
pot to where
the bait is
suspended. For further proof that the
feelers can be folded back, if “S.G.” will
'take a live cray, stand it on its head oh
the bar counter and gently stroke his back
with his thumbnail or other hard object,
he will find the crustacean will immedi-
ately come to attention with his tail at
the perpendicular and remain so long
enough for any wagers to be collected.
* » * *
“Kelms”: A waterspout which came
ashore at a Perth beach demolished a
house and started an argument. What is
a waterspout, how does ’ it commence,
and is the water in that racing column
“Darn those kids!”
sea-water or 'rain? The Encyclopedia
Britannica says it’s mostly rain, its cause
some sort of tension between a low cloud
and the ocean, and suggests that the
spiral motion commences at the cloud
and descends to touch the ocean. I find
that hard to accept. Like willy-willies,
waterspouts will appear when there isn t
a cloud in the sky, and the swirling up
ward motion of the sea-water can be
seen as it is sucked into the twisting
funnel. I recall two happenings in Perth
which were laid at the door of water-
spouts—rightly or not, I don t know. The
first occurred in the early 1900 s, and wa
a sudden visitation of frogs during a
sharp downpour. They stopped tramc
horses couldn’t keep their feet in the
IBJW HMmbk
('SSttW'
ll§) FSR If 5 -
“THAT'S the target I Want to hit!”
slippery mass —and men were employed
to shovel and sweep them away. The
other was a rain of small fishes, alive. If
those fishes didn’t drop from a waterspout
which travelled inland, whence did they
come? If a'waterspout was responsible
it must have contained a fair proportion
of sea-water. I’ve always held water-
spouts to be the maritime version of the
small land willy-willy, which sucks up
dirt, leaves, sheets of iron and, in short,
anything that isn’t secured, I saw one
lift a dog 40ft. in the air, and if one
passed over a swamp I can quite imagine
it picking up a few frogs and dropping
them miles away, to the mystification of
some strict teetotaller. One which passed
my camp just after I’d put some wash-
ing on the ground to dry may have in-
spired some luckier battler with the be-
lief that dungarees came from heaven.
But to return to waterspouts. Are they
simply liquid willy-willies? If not, what
are they ?
* * * *
“Chuck”: One can understand animals
wearing a trail for a short distance across
a grass paddock they frequent—rabbits,
for instance, making to and from a
burrow, or even ants plying in numbers
head-to-tail between their nests and a feed-
supply. But what gets me is the length,
at times, of hare trails. Came on one
the other day leading into a clover pad-
dock. At any point along a quarter-
mile fence entry would have been just as
easy, but long-ears evidently preferred a
particular spot about a third of the way
along, where he had worn a slight de-
pression. Inside the clover paddock the
trail soon petered out, but in the opposite
direction it ran across a small flat
crossed a gully, travelled 500 to 600
yards up a spur in a straight line, angled
suddenly to the right across the hillside,
curved, and finally lost itself on the top
of a bare ridge about three-quarters of
a mile from its starting-point. One hare’s
many happy returns, probably, but the
point is: How did the old battler know
the exact line to add his footmarks on
his second, third or even his fourth trips?
* * * *
“S.G.”: The residents of a Westralian
country town have been interested lately
in a unique exhibit in the butcher’s shop.
It consists of a roast of beef and a pound
of steak, with the price, 2s. 7d. a pound-
fixed price is Is. 7d. a pound—marked
on it. At that the residents would have
bought it —they’re paying Is. 4d. a pound
for frozen rabbit; —but, it wasn’t for sale.
It had been bought in Perth at the price
marked, and was on loan from the pur-
chaser to lend atmosphere to the other-
wise empty shop. Absurd? Don’t be a
heretic! That’s planned economy.
* * * *
“Wonk”: Dad was having trouble with
the ewes, and on three consecutive morn-
ings he came on some which could have
been saved had he been on the spot a
few hours earlier. “Always the same,”
he growled to Bob. “In future well get
up an’ go round ’em before breakfast,
takin’ a paddick each.” Daybreak next
morning found the pair tramping the pad-
docks in a hoary frost. There were no
ewes down, everything was in order, and
after an hour they returned to light the
fire for breakfast. The same thing hap-
pened the next mornifig, and the next,
until a fortnight had passed without one
ewe needing early-morning attention.
“Seems a bit mad coming out here every
morning for nothing,” complained Bob,
as they tramped back through the drizzle.
“Couldn’t we have a feed t’morrer before
we come out?” “What!” snorted the
old bloke. “Us doin’ so well, an’ still y
ain’t satisfied! Gripes, this’s at least
fourteen ewes we’ve saved now, conun
early.” “Fourteen! But there^ hamt
been one down since we started!” “No,
but only ’cos we come early,” assured the
old bloke. “Y’ know what would ye
’appened to ’em if we ’adn’t come.”
* * * *
■“Old-timer”: Overheard one cove tell
another that from one place to some-
where was “about 15 miles as the crow
flies.” He meant the shortest line, but
the crow seldom takes it, being given to
high, swerving flight when on a journey,
though whether because the black bird is
looking for tucker, aware of lurking
enemies or merely being perverse, I. 0 *® 1 ? 1
know. Personally, if I wanted a bird to
measure a distance by straight line to
advertise for a magpie. Mag. neve
wastes time or distance when making
from one paddock to another, and to see
one or two in flight is to get an exhibitio
of deadly concentration on the busine
of getting there by the shortest P os !- ke
line in the shortest possible time. M*
the crow, mag. has few airborne enen ) l
to fear and, unlike the crow, seldom n.
to fear man and his gun, consequent y
mag. goes hence or thence with apologi
to nobody. Smaller birds, having to ke p
an eye out for kestrels, kites, hawx ,
butcher-birds and so forth, make for tn
destination by a series of angles a
curves, darting from cover to co J er . a ute
carefully surveying each bit of to
ahead before taking it.
THE RIDE OF RICHARD ILLIDGE.
He’s unnamed in the stud books.
But they tell, with indrawn breath,
Of a horse that rode the night down
With lllidge up, against Death.
Young Trooper Goldman, Buninyong,
Escort of gold-dust’s day,
He shot a man in passion,
And hid, out Plenty way.
Men hunted their human quarry
For months —so runs the tale —
Jill they caught, and tried, and condemned him
To hang in Corio jail.
But Richard lllidge, of Ballarat,
Heard, and remembered
He offered to ride for the Queen’s reprieve
On the day before the end.
They wrote to Latrobe a letter —
Priest Stretch, and Schoolmaster Behan —
And lllidge set forth on his hundred-mile ride
To the servant of the Queen.
He left the sun to the You Yangs,
But the moon came up from the Bay,
He rode against night for the life of a friend,
For the hope of a living day.
The Little River was flooding
By the shepherd’s huts asleep,
He swam it and pressed to the north-east,
Past the swamp the samphires keep.
And to Batman’s place for a village—
To shanty-small Melbourne Town —
He rode through mud to the Governor,
And at Jolimont swung him down.
Crystal and silver dishes
Stood in wax candlelight,
Latrobe sat late with his lady
When lllidge rode out of tfce night.
The Queen’s man thought of the felon,
And reached for a grey goose-quill,
Wrote to Fyans, the Sheriff:
“A respite, if he’s living still!”
But lllidge was riding for Goldman,
With the ink still wet on the words;
On his horse’s hocks as he made for the scrub,
The bracken a threat of swords.
On, through the Werribee sheeplands,
On, through the gibbering night;
A spear flew close as he checked, half-blown,
With Station Peak on his right;
Checked up Vilumanata
Where the hills swing wide for the Bay,
Waded in silver at Cowie’s Creek
As the sheoaked dawn came grey.
On, to the North Shore pastures,
Into the glittering day,
Staggered by Ashby’s cottages
Where the ships ride calm in the Bay.
The gibbet lifted on Gallows Flat
Its direful majesty, . i
The men thronged black against the jail,
With a crinoline or three.
And as, in Captain Fyans’ despite,
The jail clock neared eight,
With Goldman pinioned, waiting,
Dick lllidge made the gate.
Still, through the sleeping shires, they hear.
If August nights bring thunder,
A ghost horse ride the moon down —
With the curlews crying under.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


OIE PUFF
NIMROD
“NIMROD” ready-to-roll cigarette tobacco is tops m smoking
pleasure. Made from extra high-grade leaf, it provides a cool
and fragrant smoke that is pleasing to the discerning
palate. We believe that you will get greater smoking satisfaction
with “NIMROD ” the tobacco that retains its flavour right to
the last.
Sole Distributors:
Andrew M s 6ee
1 CASTLEREAGH STREET and 70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
0 xtmme
Ready-to-roll
CIGARETTE
TOBACCO v
“NIMROD” special ready-to-roll cigarette
mixture is exclusive to Andrew McGee,
Sydney’s foremost tobacconist. Write or
call for your supply. 2 oz. pack 3/3J ;26/4J6.
Please add postage —l/6 per lb. N.8.W.; Vi-
per lb, other States.
Adequate
Supplies
Always Available
Estab. 1887,
55
OL t
X
.
V v
“The Bunylp”: They’d hate to know
of it, but the Japs have done me a good
turn.' When the rains set in along the
coast this year I had early cabbages in,
so out in the wet I went and dug drains
down any hollow and hoped for the best.
I might as well have turned on the hose.
Cabbage and cauli. faded and died,
spinach and greenstuff turned a sickly
yellow and I squelched around and felt
as cheerful as when we floundered off the
L.S.T. and landed in the mud of Iwakuni,
Iwakuni! Gripes—there was the answer!
There and at Bhofu we saw the Nip
women with
great chop-
hoes turning
flat paddocks
into ridges
running north
and south,
high enough
to keep the
tops out of
any floods,
wide enough
to take a
good row of
beans or
barley and
with just enough space between to do
weeding .or trot along with the honey-
pot. I made the wife a cup of tea and
explained the technique; she said it was
interesting and I ought to try it —she’s
like that; so into gumboots again and
out I go. Did one small plot as an ex-
periment. Result? The broadbeans are
up to my chest and flowering heavily;
Greenfeast peas over a yard high—staked,
of course —are setting a heavy crop of
long pods and are still a mass of white
blossom. Janie, my cow, added her con-
tribution, but that alone wpuld not have
produced the crop which cheers me after
viewing the gloom at the other end of
the garden. Two points to remember:
the rows should be north and south, so
that the sun can warm both sides, and
the ridges should be high enough to keep
the roots above water that lies in the
trenches after heavy rain. In a couple
of weeks I’ll be having tender peas and
melted butter with my chop, and all I
1 want is for the price to remain at not
less than 2s. 6d. a pound until then, to
improve my prospects when I reopen the
matter of introducing the missus to one of
those big hoes.
* * * *
“E.”: A dog of average intelligence
will soon learn to know rabbit-traps and
treat them with respect. A fox, too, and
a dingo seem to understand, and scout
them warily. But a cat! Hang it, a
cat never seems to learn! The old feline
round this joint has been caught so many
times I’ve lost count of his adventures,
and though he has always escaped broken
bones, his black arms are decorated with
many white bracelets, souvenirs of his
stupidity. Even after many campaigns,
sight of a trap meant nothing to the
warrior, so I attempted education by
shoving him gradually towards the dis-
played trap, then suddenly slipping a
strong paper-clip on his mitt as I rattled
the trap. Surely he must at last under-
stand. Then I set in the garden for rats,
leaving the rabbit-trap fully exposed be-
side a part-demolished pumpkin. Soon
there was a yowling, and a clatter, and up
I went to release the fummy, reset the
trap and cart the victim down to the
back door-mat. Half an hour later the
silly cow stopped licking his injured fist,
limped back up the garden and, in broad
daylight, shoved his other prop between
the same jaws. I give up!
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: He’d been on the
job for years and had antagonised every-
one with whom he’d come in contact.
Built on the general lines of an elephant,
but with less tact, he’d been dubbed
Bulldozer early in the piece, and the
name stuck. The fact that he couldn’t
be trusted to do any job around the place
didn’t deter him from trying, and he was
always discovering some way in which
jobs—other men’s jobs—could be done
better. Yet, because of a misplaced sense
of loyalty to a fellow-worker, he was
tolerated, and remained a disturbing ele-
ment until the new mechanic arrived. The
new bloke was old but good, and he had
the engines purring. Then Bulldozer took
a hand. The old bloke humored him,
took his suggestions courteously and de-
veloped worried lines on his brow as he
anxiously watched the pest’s journeys
through the workshop. Still, he never
complained or lost his temper, but it
suddenly dawned on us that his refer-
ences to “mother” were pointed.
“Mother?” someone asked. “Yes.” The
old bloke grinned a little. “He knows
best.” The name took on, and the pest
shrank visibly. Thereafter he confined
“It's for you— ‘Ernest Bates, Esq., Taxation Assessment for
Nineteen Forty-six .”
himself to his own work, the ego which
had withstood a barrage of abuse and in-
sults suddenly deflated by a gentle shaft
from a mild-mannered old man.
* * * *
“Zake”: The pursuit of “sugarbag”
was the chief pastime of two coves I
knew on a Muswellbrook (N.S.W.) pro-
perty. They were possessed of much more
enthusiasm than science. Once they
located a nest in a dead gum and labored
for two hours in a sweltering sun to
bring it down, after which they made
joyously for the nest with the kero.-tin.
They came back to the homestead later
to be patched up. After all, wasps when
violently disturbed aren’t the most sweet-
tempered of insects.
* * * *
“Raindrop”: Our digging team in-
cluded a sea-weary Swede. The potato
swamp was divided by a deeply-sunken
creek with the only bridge at the lower
end; crossings higher up could be made
over fallen paperbarks, but, being neither
mountain-goats nor fond of an icy dip,
the diggers went round by the bridge.
Nearing the gate with the last load I
called to Swen to bring a half-full bag
which had been left behind in the far
corner. Already carrying a partly-full
bag, Swen turned, potatoes on shoulder,
went up the creek, crossed on a rickety
tree-trunk and plodded over to the corner,
where he tipped one lot of potatoes into
the other. Flinging the empty bag over
his arm, he hoisted the now-full bag to
his shoulder and returned, not by the
cart-track and the bridge but across the
same fallen tree-trunk and so to the dray.
“Why didn’t you come back by the
bridge?” I asked. Swen laughed. What
was a slender, swaying tree-trunk over
a creek to a man who had spent years
in the rigging of the old vyindjammers?
“But why carry the first lot of potatoes
all the way?” I asked. “Vhen Cap’n say
take someping somevhere you no put
him down till you him get there,”
answered Swen simply.
* * * *
“Bagot”: Perth’s Naturalists’ Club
could have begun investigation of a
hitherto unknown Westralian bird. A
member holidaying at Esperance was
awakened on four successive mornings by
strange, birdlike notes on the seafront
near his hotel window. A student of
ornithology, he was baffled by the shrill,
rhythmical cries which always ceased be-
fore he dressed and went downstairs. The
morning after he had written a long
report for mailing to club headquarters he
caught his bird. At the first sound of the
mysterious notes he dashed out in pyjamas
and saw a small boy taking pre-breakfast
exercises on a beach playground swing.
Peace of mind was restored by the burn-
ing of the report and a nocturnal visit
to the swing with a can of oil.
* * * *
“Warrapdyte”: I can assure “8.A.K.”
(B. 17/ 5/ ’5O) that the traditional spelling
of “tea-tree” is quite correct, as a close
study of a verbatim reproduction of
Cook’s Journal makes no reference to
ti-tree at all. It records all edible sub-
stances found, from oysters to cabbage-
tree palms. That he or his crew brewed
a tea from it would seem to be another
of those myths that stick like equinoctial
gales, the effect of the moon on the
weather and Drake’s game of bowls.
* * * *
“Clo”: The torrential rain that has
lately swept the eastern littoral recalls the
story old Ahmat told me of a great flood
that once swept Malaya. Natives from
an outlying village were out hunting one
day when they chanced on what appeared
to be a huge log lying across their jungle
path. It was impossible to climb over
the obstruction, so of necessity they had
to find a way around it. On walking to
its end they discovered it was a
tremendous snake and apparently asleep.
Summoning assistance, they cut large
stakes and eventually succeeded in tether-
ing the reptile securely. Amid great re-
joicing the great reptile was cut up and
the choicest parts carried back to the
kampongs, where feasts were the order
of the day. The skin was made into a
huge drum, and as the flesh was being
cooked this drum was soundly beaten —
but no sound came from it. The women
also began to panic, for as the flesh was
put into the cooking-pots strange noises
began to issue therefrom, and the flesh
began to evaporate into a misty cloud
that hung over the fires until it slowly dis-
appeared, Suddenly the drum began to
beat of its own accord and light rain
began to fall. As the terrified Malays
huddled in their huts the rain increased
in intensity until it was torrential. And
all the time the drum was beating faster
and faster. Quickly the lower-lying
kampongs were flooded out, the inhabi-
tants taking to high trees. For weeks the
rain fell, and all the land was covered
with water except the peak of the highest
mountain in Malaya. All humans
perished, with the exception of one
maiden who had managed to reach the
safety of the peak. There was one other
occupant of the safety zone —a huge
snake was lying on the bare rocks. The
water began to recede immediately and
the forests appeared again. The snake
stayed with the girl, not leaving her until
she had given birth to twins, a boy and
a girl, both in human shape. These two,
according to Ahmat, were the progenitors
of the human race.
« * * *
“8.A.K.”: In its comparative blood-
lessness (B. 7/6/’5O) the rabbit shows yet
another marked diversity from the
animal that resembles it most —the hare.
By contrast a hare is a very prolific
bleeder, although, considering the ginger
fellow’s size, his supply of blood may not
be out of proportion. Perhaps it is this
difference in blood-quantity that makes
the flesh of a hare so much darker than
that of a rabbit. But bunny has a large
supply of blood, even 'taken propor-
tionally, compared with a little com-
patriot of his. Fortunately for Austra-
lian gardeners this little fellow has never
been introduced here. He is known as a
vole, and is a species of field-mouse. In
one night a visitation) from voles can
ruin a whole lawn, leaving it a honey-
comb of burrows. For this reason
English gardeners. use vole-traps in dis-
tricts cursed with the little pests. The
trap is constructed so the vole’s skin is
broken when caught; that is considered
sufficient. So small is the animal’s blood
supply that loss of two drops of blood is
recognised as being fatal to him.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: There was a big hollow log
close to our tent, and from it came the
OF
the snake.
distinct sound of
barking, though
it was rather
feeble. Thinking
a dog must have
been jammed in
it we got to work
with axes, but all
we found inside
that log was a
large tiger-snake.
Anyone else heard a tiger-snake bark?
* * * *
“Pat O’Day”: Drive a mo.b of sheep
through the paddock and watch a rabbit
disturbed by the sheep-dogs—without
hesitation he’ll make straight for the
centre of the mob. He’ll be in no danger
of being trampled to death. Dodging
around zigzag fashion, he can usually
bo relied on to confuse the canines by
sneaking out at an unexpected angle and
make a clean getaway.
LOVE SONG.
Me fella lonely;
Big white wamba
Shine across the plain,
Him gibbit sadness,
Tidjili, lubra;
Tidjili, cpme again.
Cry in the long grass,
Night bird, hoo-hoo.
Same fella lonely, so?
Makim more sadness,
Tidjili, lubra;
Tidjili, where you go?
N.S.W.
*
IAN HEALY.


To people who have money in Savings Banks
SECOND
AUSTRALIA*
UNIT TRUST
If you have money in a Savings
Bank you should read this
message. It tells you about a plan
which enables you when your
savings reach £25 to invest them
with absolute safety and enjoy an
income of nearly 5 per cent per
annum—a plan which enables the
value of your money to grow
with the growing wealth of Aus-
tralia.
This plan was introduced to
Australia 14 years ago by Aus-
tralian Fixed Trusts Pty. Ltd.,
and has been followed by
thousands of careful investors.
Here is how the plan works.
You become an investor in one
of the Unit Trusts established and
managed by Australian Fixed
Trusts Pty. Ltd. and this gives
you at one stroke of your pen an
interest in a group of twenty or
more leading Australian indus-
trial and commercial companies
such as Woolworths, Broken Hill
Pty. Ltd., Dunlop Rubber Com-
pany, Commercial Bank, Henry
Jones and others—in fact in all
the companies in which shares
are held by the particular Unit
Trust in which you invest.
In this way your wealth grows
with their wealth. Your money is
absolutely safe because it is
spread over such a wide range
of shares. In addition it earns
you nearly 5%. Isn’t that better
than leaving it idle in a savings
bank at a low rate of interest?
Best of all, if you want your
money at any time Australian
Fixed Trusts Pty. Ltd. guarantees
to cash your Unit Trust Certifi-
cate for you.
Send for the 16 page Free
Booklet which tells all about the
Unit Trust Plan of safe invest-
ment and what it can do for
you. Simply fill in and mail the
coupon and the booklet will b e
sent without cost or obligation,
or telephone BU 2235. Do not
delay. Do not put it off. Mai
the coupon now.
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY. LTD.
Dept. 85, 8-li R on( j street. Sydney.
Chas. A. Allerdice. A.1.C.A., A.C.A.A.,
Manager and Secretary.
SEND ME FREE BOOKLET AS ILLUSTRATED.
Name
Address
B's/2.
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY. LTD.
Dept. 8.5, 8-14 Bond Street , Sydney.
CHAS A. ALLERDICE, A.1.C.A., A.C.A.A MANAGER & SECRETARY
Listen to FRANK STUBGE HABTY on Station 2CH daily 2-2.30 p.ra. and 12 noon Saturdays.
Also Frank Clune, 2SM 8.45 p.m. Fridays. Paul Schramm Plays 2GB 9 p.m. Mondays. Golden Melodies on
12.45 p.m. daily Mon.-Thurs., and 10-10.30 a.m. Sundays. Golden Treasury ot Music 2UW 9 p.m. Tuesday.
The WILDCAT COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
Net To
May, Profit, Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1942. 687,711 6J p.c. = 821,103 4,286,517
Marine insur, fund included, £631,209 4,917,726
1943. 697,791 6 p.c. = 694,251 3,540 4,821,266
1944. 728,675 5 „ „ 694,245 84,430 4,955.696
1945. 769,367 5 „ „ 694,245 65,122 5,020,818
1946. 779,292 5 „ „ 694,245 85,047 5,105,865
Profit, sale assets, £24,542 .. .. 5,130,407
1947.1,221,361 74 p.c. = 1,041,369 179,982 5,310,389
Profit, sale assets, £61,899 .. .. 5,372,288
From tax provision, £125,000 .. 5,497,288
1948.1,255,388 84 p.c. = 1,157,075 98,313 5,595,601
Profit, sale assets, £8622 .. .. 5,604,223
1949.1,236,049 84 p.c. = 1,157,075 78,974 5,683,197
Share premiums, £1,946,091 ~7,629,288
Profit, sale assets, £49,073 .. .. 7.078,361
1950.1,286,742 84 p.c. = 1,284,518 2,229 7,680,590
H. G. Darling, who had sat at the
board-table for 36 years and at the head
of it for the last 27 of them, died on
January 26, 1950. He was first elected
a director in 1914, following the death
of his father, John Darling, the Adelaide
wheat merchant, who was then chairman
of the co. Into the seat at the head of
the table has stepped Essington Lewis,
who was chief general manager. He
grew up in the business, and contributed
largely to the development and efficiency
of the organisation, which today is the
backbone of Australia’s heavy industries,
turning out pig-iron, steel ingots and
milled products cheaper than they can
be had from anywhere else in the world
—this despite a rise of £2 a ton in the
controlled selling-price of steel in De-
cember last.
During the last decade the B.H.P.
group has spent out of earnings some
£28,000,000 on modernisation, extension
and improvement of plant, etc. Yet
Australian production of iron and steel
is still around the 1938-39 level, as the
Commonwealth statistician’s fi gur e s
show:
Blooms and
Pig-iron. Billets. Ingot Steel.
’OOO. ’OOO. ’OOO.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1938-39 .. 1105 1120 1168
1947- .. 1236 1222 1343
1948- .. 1058 1025 1176
11 mths. May,’so 1014 1000 1125
The failure of production (it is years be-
hind the co.’s order-book) to respond to
capital outlay and technical achievement
is due primarily to inadequate and
irregular supplies of coal. This has re-
stricted output of the big Newcastle and
Port Kembla plants to about two-thirds
capacity, and at the same time bumped
up unit costs. Early in the last term an
eight-weeks’ production blackout re-
sulted from the Communist-inspired coal
strike; and an industrial dispute at Iron
Knob (S. Aus.) interfered with iron-
ore production.
At Whyalla the five-birth shipyard
made its 19th launching—third of four
freighters being built for the Ship-
ping Board —but the 750-ton-a-day blast-
furnace there was not blown-in again
until September, 1949, because of lack of
coke.
Some of the production leeway was
made up as the year advanced, and,
with the assistance of the lift in selling-
prices, B.H.P. itself finished up with a
profit of £1,286,742 (up £50,693), despite
a drop of £74,279 in income from sub-
sidiaries (£224,332). On the increased
capital the 8.3 p.c. div. took all but £2229
of the profit claimed.
The key to the trading position of the
whole group, however, is the consolidated
figures of B.H.P. and its seven sub-
sidiaries —A.I. and S. (whose plant now
rivals that of the parent in size), Rylands
Bros., Commonwealth Steel, Lysaght
Bros., Australian Wire Rope Works,
Titan Nail and Wire and B.H.P. By-
products :
Consolidated Figures.
(Covering both group and outside interests.)
Gross earnings— 1948, „ m wi
Working profit. . £6,171,508 £5,253,477 £5,453,42
Divs,, etc. .. 386,899 390,621 418,20
Total .. £6,558,407 £5,644,098 £5,871,626
Denreciation .. 2,385,029 2,399,817 2,518,363
KT 2 047 958 1,437,384 1,410,231
Oth« exes! " 285,010 303,055 343,799
Total exes. .. £4,717,997 £4,140,256 £4,267,393
Net profit . 1,840,410 MOS.SIfi 1.604,233
Profit, sale assets.. 64,022 14,143 49,004
The year’s allowance for depreciation
(11.1 p.c. of book-value of all fixed
assets at May 31) is a reminder of the
heavy cost of maintaining plant efficiency
in a big steel undertaking. And the busi-
ness earns nearly as much foe the Gov-
ernment as it does for shareholders, who
carry all the risks. Of the £1,604,233 (up
£100,391) of profit, £136,169 appears to
belong to outsiders and £1,468,064 to
group interests. So the margin of cover
for the 8.3 p.c. div, was wider than the
parent’s own accounts disclosed. It was
a very satisfactory showing considering
the industrial difficulties, and that A.l.
and S. showed a drop of £67,322 in its
profit (£210,884), that another offshoot
made a loss of £21,528, and that a lot of
money was represented by assets that are
not yet earning anything. A.l. and S.
has paid only one ord. div. (5 p.c. in
1946) since B.H.P. took control in 1935.
Early last term 4,587,754 new £1 shares
were issued at 30s. each, one for four.
The money was wanted for further
mechanisation of collieries, additions to
the ore-carrying fleet, erection of a mil-
lion-ton-a-year tinplate and auxiliary
plant in conjunction with A.l. and S.,
and for expansion of the Port Kembla
steel plant—B.H.P. took up 5,299,993
new A.l. and S. £1 ords. for cash during
the year. A lot more money will be
needed to see the big programme of de-
velopment to completion. Meanwhile
potential earning-power of the group is
steadily gathering strength.
When the books closed £5,838,272 of
the new share (£3,892,181) and premium
(£1,946,019) moneys had been gathered,
leaving £1,043,359 to come:
Consolidated Figures.
Outside
, B.H.P. * Shareholders’ Sundry
Capital. Reserves. Interests.* Creditors.!
1942.. £13,882,889 £6,818,493 £2,155,696 £7,094,452
1947.. 13,884,902 8,586,827 2,169,613 7,365,509
1948.. 13,884,902 9,420,540 2,225,514 9,234,336
1949.. 13,884,902 9,895,799 2,259,863 9,887,045
1950.. 17,777,083 12,107,414 2,293,532 9,516,265
F-ixed Stocks, Book Other
Assets. Stores, Etc. Debts. Assets.
1942.. £18,929,700 £5,340,173 £3,480,561 £2,548,221
1947.. 14,902,823 5,237,841 2,490,564 9,375,683
1948.. 16,604,210 6,595,418 2,573,660 9,022,084
1949.. 18,959,926 7,641,989 2,174,700 6,650,884
1950.. 22,517,069 8,838,696 2,8t1,249 7,527,170
* Including proportion reserves. 1 Includes tax pro-
vision.
The year’s net growth in fixed assets was
£3,557,143, stocks, etc., £1,196,707 and
book debts £636,549. Other assets (up
£876,286) include cash and Government
securities totalling £5,026,665.
The scrip, which has all the essentials
of a soujid industrial equity, fetched only
455. 6d. in the market a year ago. The
figure, which has since touched 575., stood
at 545. 3d. last week, giving an immediate
return of 3.1 p.c. on an 8.3 p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover (book-value) is
335. 6d.
John McGrath, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
June. Profit. / Dividend \ serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1943.. 20,270 9 p.c. = 20,250 20 102,737
1944.. 20,293 9 „ „ 20,250 43 102,780
1945.. 20,497 9 „ „ 20,250 247 103,027
1946.. 21,393 9 „ „ 20,250 1,143 104,170
John McGeath and Subsidiaries.
1947.. 25,245 9 p.c. = 23,027 2,218 217,250
Share premiums, £78,509 .. .. 295,759
1948.. 47,413 12 p.c. = 38,684 8,729 304,488
Prom depreciation reserve, etc., £44,161 348,649
From share premiums, £8991 .. 357,640
1949.. 98,917 15 p.c. = 61,665 37,252 394,892
Share premiums, £39,375 .. .. 434,267
Surplus revaluation assets, £373,365.. 807,632
Unexplained addition res., £4353 .. 811,985
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 .. .. 661,895
1950.. 264,567 Si p.c. = 52,500 212,067 774,052
To tax reserve, £12,778 .. ... 761,274
It was a record and eventful year which
eclipsed all previous performances of
this big engineering and motor-vehicle
distributing organisation. Shareholders
joined in the prosperity, notwithstanding
the drop in the div. from 15 p.c. to 8i p.c.
Those who bought, say, 100 shares early
in May, 1949, at 545. each, and exercised
their rights to the one-for-five new share-
issue at a premium of 9s. a share and to
the two subsequent bonus-scrip issues of
one for four and one for five respectively,
now hold 180 shares at an average cost
of 335. 5.4 d. each. So, at the current
market price of 535. 6d., they can see a
capital gain of just over 20s. a share, or
£lBO. And the return at 335.-sd. would
be 4.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. On
the same div. the investor at 53 s. 6d. gets
an immediate return of 3 p.c. If he looks
for 4} p.c. on his money he counts on
the div. going to 12 p.c., or other bene-
fits. The board’s declared intention is to
limit the div, to 8 p.c., and to finance
planned expansion of the undertaking out
of surplus earnings without calling upon
shareholders for additional capital.
The group consists of parent (mainly
a holding co.) and five operating sub-
sidiaries, whose businesses are expanding
rapidly and all of which are contributing
to the pool. Over the last 3f years
£175,000 of cash-paid capital, which
brought with it £126,875 of share pre-
miums, was gathered ; the last £87,500 of
capital and £39,375 of premiums came in
during the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts. During the year £250,000 of
bonus scrip was also issued, one half from
share-premium reserve and the other half
from a capital-assets reserve of £373,365,
created by revaluation of properties,
which now appear at 1949 replacement
costs, less depreciation. All that lifted
paid capital to £750,000, on which 8 p.c.
would call for less than one-quarter of
last term’s exceptional net earnings.
Since 1947 turnover, which reached
£7,800,000-odd last term, has increased
over fourfold, and profits in relation to
capital have expanded nearly 3| times.
Last term’s £264,567 (up £165,650) of
profit was 35.2 p.c. on capital as it now
stands, compared with 24, 14.7 and 10.4
p.c, for the three preceding years. For
the seven years to June 30, 1929, divs.
averaged 34.8 p.c., followed by averages
of 9.8 p.c. for each of the two decades
to close of accounts in 1949.
Earnings of individual subsidiaries are
not disclosed, but the motor-vehicle off-
shoot, John McGrath Pty., is a money-
spinner today. It holds the N. S. Wales
and Queensland franchises for Hillman,
Humber and Sunbeam-Talbot cars and
for some trucks as well. And there is a
tidy return from sale of parts for these
vehicles and servicing, too.
Australian Forge and Engineering Pty.,
which turns out ferrous and non-ferrous
forgings, including those of G.M.H.’s new
all-Australian car, has an overflowing
order-book; but net earnings have been
retarded by power-rationing and heavy
overhead.
Perkins (Aust.) Pty., which distributes
a number of Australian, British and
American steel and engineering products,
is reaping a good harvest, and progress
is being made by the two remaining
members of the group—lndustrial Sales
and Services, which handles earth-moving
equipment and farm tractors in N.S.W.,
and Aluminium .Alloys, which makes the
kind of alloys its name indicates.
The financial position of the group im-
proved : 1 —
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1948. 1949. 1960.
Capital .. .. •• £893,580 £412,500 £750,000
Outside interests .. 55,084 65,867 104,325
Overdraft .. ■ • 354,828 215,158 21,082
Creditors, etc.* .. 179,893 326,186 629,832
Inter-co. balance .. 251,903 265,824
Final div. .. • • 26,685 61,919 . 15,000
Freeholds .. .. 259,705 387,745 760,837
Plant 171,520 201,138 253,059
Stocks, etc 611,386 878,667 1,132,728
Debtors .. . . 258,204 244,784 384,824
Shares 5,5 0 0 5,50 0 6,000 ■
Cash 7,243 10,591 19,889
* Includes provision for taxation.
The fresh cash-paid capital, etc., together
with surplus earnings and an extra
£303,646 from sundry creditors, enabled
£194,076 to be slashed off the overdraft,
£254,061 to be added to stocks and
£140,040 to book debts. The improve-
ment in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£611,703) was £327,327.
Since the close of accounts a new sub-
sidiary, National Forge Pty., has been
registered in Melbourne with a nominal
capital of £500,000, and formation of yet
another offshoot, to operate a bright-steel-
drawing plant at Lidcombe (N.S.W.), is
under consideration.
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£, £ £ £
1940.. 96,705 p.c.= 84,233 12.472 460,030
1941.. 98,636 12J „ „ 84,233 14,403 474,433
3 942.. 94,273 12i „ ~ 84,233 10,040 484,473
1943.. 66,350 7.8 „ „ 52,645 13,705 498,178
From doubtful debts reserve, £2500 .. 600,678
1944.. 66,186 7.8 p.c.= 52,645 13,541 514,219
•1945.. 65,050 7.8 „ ~ 52,645 12,405 526,624
1946.. 66,473 10 „ „ 67,386 525,711
1947.. 67,130 10 „ „ 67,386 025,455
From doubtful debts reserve, £lOOO .. 526,455
1948.. 67,474 10 p.e. = 67.386 88 526,543
1949.. 67,676 10 „ ~ 67,386 290 526,833
1950.. 70,098 10 „ ~ 67,386 2,712 529,545
Kandos (paid capital £673,862) and
Australian Cement (paid capital £760,433)
are two holding cos., being equal partners
in Australian Portland Cement Pty.,
biggest producer in the Commonwealth,
which has an issued capital of £2,200,000
paid to £1,150,000. Last term the operat-
ing co. got in an extra £lOO,OOO (£50,000
from each partner) on the contribs., leav-
ing £50,000 at call. At June 30 Kandos’s
only other assets were Government securi-
ties and cash £166,031 (down £41,115) and
shares in a subsidiary, Pipe Linings
(Aus.) Pty., £5OOO. Shares in other cos.,
which stood at £lO,OBl in 1949, have
disappeared from the accounts.
So all but a small fraction of Kandos's
profit consists of divs. from the big
operating co., over whose figures the
curtain is kept drawn. Investors have
therefore to largely back the management,
which the history of the undertaking sug-
gests is an able one. Since 1943 the
operating co. has sent along a steady
6 p.c. on its capital as against 9 p.c. for
the five years before that. Kandos paid
p.c. for the five years to 1942, fol-
lowed by 7.8 p.c. for the remaining three
war years, and then 10 p.c. for the five
years to the close of last accounts.
At the moment it is difficult to say


m
From
Scotland
—every
precious
drop
iuc<t»Hnr
cjag:
m*
BUCHANAN'S 1
§4
BLACK&WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distified and blended in Scotland
By Appointment
lOiH.M. King George VI
ƒ
Scotch Whilky Distillers.
Jam** Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
Fames ” buchanan tand co. Glasgow. Scotland
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
Divorce Notices.
in theTsuprem'e court of new
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HILTON McMILLAN HUGHES for-
merly of Badgery Creek. —TAKE NOTICE
that JOYCE HUGHES has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3799 of 1949 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
25th October 1950 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
PERCY SHERMAN, Solicitor, of 4
O’Connell Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT •
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established XB7B
Head Office* 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
0. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD ( Vice-Chairman) .
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
(with, which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria Limited)
Incorporated in New South Wales.
Board of Directors:
EDWARD R. KNOX, Chairman. GEOFFREY P. HUGHES. Deputy Chairman.
ORWELL PHILLIPS, DOUGLAS R. LTSAGHT, ROBERT J. YICABS,
ERNEST W. STREET.
General Manager: A. S. OSBORNS.
BALANCE SHEET ON 30th JUNE, 1950.
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary
General Meeting to be held at the Head Banking House,
343 George Street, Sydney, on Tuesday, 22nd August,
1950, at noon precisely.
Capital—
Authorised
LIABILItIES.
£ 12,000,000
In 480,000 shares of £25 each.
Issued—379,l2l shares of £25 each £9,478,025 0
Less: Reserve Capital of £l2/10/-
per share ~<> 4,739,012 10
0
Paid up 4,739,012 10 0
Reserve Fund (wholly used In the
business of the Bank) 4,300,000 0 0
£9,039,012 10
Pinal Dividend proposed 189,560 10
Balance of Profit and Loss Account 187,375 17
0
0
3
Total Shareholders’ Funds
Deposits, Bills Payable and other Liabilities, including
provisions for contingencies
Notes In Circulation
Balances due to other Banks
£9,415,948 17
155,384,757 17
13,516 10
2,189.114 9
3
6
0
3
£167,003,337 14 0
0 0
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers £ 6,639,367 4
Money at Short Call In London 187,500 0
Special Account with Commonwealth
Bank of Australia 46,350,000
Cheques and Bills of othOr Banks and
Balances with and due from other
Banks 3,906,268 18
Treasury Bills —Australian Governments 10,000,000 0
Public Securities (excluding Treasury
Bills) —at or below market value
(including £4,000 lodged with Public
Authorities) —
Australian Government Securities ...
Bills Receivable and Remittances in
Transit 9,063,267 4 4
38,172,996 13 3
-£114,319,400 0 3
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting
provisions for debts considered bad or doubtful) 48,173,615 14
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites —at cost, less amount*
written off 1,186,736 5
All other Assets 3,323,585 14
£167,003,337 14 0
ORWELL PHILLIPS 7 n ,.
R, J. VICARS ) DlreCtorS *
E. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
A. S. OSBORNE, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED.
We have examined the above Balance Sheet and compared It with the
books at the Head Office and with the returns from the Branches. We have
verified the Bills and counted the Cash at the Head Office. We have obtained
all the information and explanations we have required, and In our opinion
the Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct
view of the state of the Company’s affairs according to the best of our
Information ahd the explanations given to us, and as shown by the books
of the Company. , , „
In our opinion the Register of Members and other records which the
Company is required to keep by law or by its Articles have been properly
kept.
Sydney, 20th July, 1950.
G. MASON ALLARD 7
FRANCIS B. OLIVER)
Auditors.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Interim Dividend for the half-year ended 31st Decem-
ber, 1949, at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum,
paid on 24th January, 1950 £189,560 10 •
„ Reduction of Bank Premises Account 25,000 0 0
Balance proposed to he dealt with as follows:
To Dividend for the half-year ended
30th June, 1950, at the rate of
8 per cent, per annum £ 189,560 10 0
„ Amount carried forward 187,375 17 3
376,936 t S
£591,496 17 3
By Amount brought forward from 30th June, 1949 £ 164,954 7 7
Profit for the year ended 30th June, 1950, after pay-
ment of all expenses of management (including
Directors' Fees, £3,750) and provision for taxes
and for rebate on current bills and accrued interest
on fixed deposits, and for bad and doubtful debts
and other contingencies 426,542 9 8
£591,496 17 3
ORWELL PHILLIPS
R. J. VICARS
Directors.
B. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
A. S. OSBORNE, General Manager.
J /A
&
| ...amdmfi
\ mid tMmM
Mddmfy
The “PERFECT POLICY” of the Metropolitan Provides
a regular income during incapacitation whether from
accidfnt or iliness-and in addition provides all
the benefits of an ordinary Endowment Assurance.
annual bonus additions.
aUSTRa L I A N
ASSURANCE COMPANY I™
HUNTER AMD/BilG’H STREETS. SYDNEY*
§a**po*U€d to Qutaitend. t&k
when better than 10 p.c. can be
expected. International develop-
ments have made the economic
background very fluid. Prices
are controlled, which means that
profits depend partly upon the
determinations of the control
authorities in relation to produc-
tion and COStS, both Of Which are
still rising. Owing to shortage
of coal, production is only about
two-thirds plant capacity, and
woefully short of demand. This
lag in production, which
amounts to about 12 months’
output in four years, is aggra-
vating unit costs and blanketing
progress in construction every-
where, thus increasing the infla-
tionary pressure.
On the demand side the out-
look for the industry is a
buoyant one. Superimposed
upon the backlog of home-
building and other construction
is a large programme of public
works, which will take years to
complete. So the operating co.
has lifted the output potential
of its Fyansford (Vic.) works
from 275,000 tons to 335,000
tons p.a., and the new equip-
ment is scheduled to be ready
for production by the end of
this year. At the other plant
(Kandos, N.S.W.), which has a
capacity of 200,000 tons p.a.,
production has been cheapened
and quickened by recent replace-
ments and modernisation of
equipment.
\ ,
Including the recently-formed
and heavily-capitalised Metro-
politan Cement Co. (capacity
150,000 tons p.a.), there are half
a dozen producers in N. S.
Wales with an aggregate plant
capacity of 885,000 tons. In
Victoria the only other cement
co. is Western District Cement,
Ltd. (capacity 40,000 tons p.a.),
a newcomer which is up against
technical difficulties, and is
already considering alternate
uses for its plant.
With one eye on the history
of this Kandos - Australian
Cement partnership and the
other on what it is doing to
cope with current and future
problems, the market expresses
its confidence in the future of
the undertaking by paying a
high premium for scrip in each
of the holding cos.:
Face Net*
Shares. Price 5iV., Yield, gTbles.
„„ ** % !9/6
Kandos .. ie/- 45/6 10 3.5 35/9
* Per pound of paid capital,
A variation of 1 p.c. in the div.
from the operating co. would
represent 1.6 p.c. and 1.4 p.c. on
the capital of Kandos and Aus-
tralian Cement respectively.
_
Rawang Tin Fields, Ltd.
This co, operates in the
Rawang and Serendah valleys,
Malaya. Of its three dredges No.
h completely dismantled by the
Japs, is of no further use. No. 3,
an all-electric machine that can
dig 300,000 c.y. a month, got
production again m May,
1946 No. 2, a 250,000-c.y.-a-
-montb machine on the Serendah
sec t° r > was badly damaged and
Jdn t begin on a commercial
basis again until May 16, 1949.
, With No. 2 in full swmg
for most of the term the co. was
able handl f u 128 V- c \™ OT ?
ground during the year to March
1950:
■ Dredged, vliue Recover
Year, ’OOO. c.y. t.o. Profit.
5“’.. 1362 L s9‘ sbclso 17*92
194 s .. 2454 ,38 419.46 16,459
1949 .. 2292 .31 316.33 16,110
1950 .. 5245 .35 sso.ss 105,923
Including recoveries from amang,
etc., the year’s total production
of t.o. was 886.08 tons (up
548 tons), assaying 75.1 p.c.,
equal to 665.02 tons (up 408.7
tons) metallic tin. The average
price received for the metal was
£5563 12s. lid. (up £SIS 18s.)
per ton, and all-in costs were
equal to £5432 4s. sd. (down
£S72, 75.) per ton of metal. Of
of the £105,923 (up £89,813) of
profit, £23,500 was written off
restoration exes., leaving £82,423
(equal to 10.2 d. per 10s. share)
available for distribution, A 6d.
(stg.) div., less 20 p.c. tax, equal
to 4.8 p.c. net, took £35,040.
As for the current term, the
immediate outlook favors a
much better showing at next
balance, and another 6d. a share
was paid on August 2. Owing
to international developments,
the iLondon spot price of tin
rocketed from an average of
£8598.2 per ton for March to
£8724.87 on July 14, and reached
a record £8779.75 per ton on
August 10. The boom is due
mainly to U.S, strategic stock-
piling and to reputed buying on
Russian account. Any relaxa-
tion in official demand from
either quarter is likely to be fol-
lowed by a sharp drop in price—
production is running well ahead
of commercial consumption the
world over. Obviously much
depends upon whether the
present international situation is
resolved peacefully or otherwise.
In Malaya banditry is also a
problem.
On the basis of last year’s
production figures and costs, a
lift of, say, £lOO a ton in
the average selling-price of
the metal would increase the
profit from the co.’s own mining
operations to £153,473, equal to
17.5 p.c. on the £867,003 of paid
capital. Costs could be expected
to increase, of course, thus re-
ducing the margin of net gain.
The co. holds about 2900 acres
(yardage not stated) under
mining andi agricultural titles.
It also has a one-third interest
in 55,000,000 c.y. of 0.51 b.
ground at Bang Toe, western
Siam, not yet equipped.
When the books closed cash,
debtors’ balances, concentrates
on hand, etc., totalled £193,180,
and stores figured at £166,397.
Current liabilities (including the
div.) amounted to £70,171. There
was a rehabilitation loan of
£174,300, which should be more
than offset on settlement of the
co.’s war-damage claims.
The market sums up the risks
by pricing the f.-p. 10s. shares
at 6s. 9d.
Oh August 31 shareholders in
Emperor Mines, Ltd. —the hold-
ing co. through which the public
is interested in Emperor Gold
Mining Co., Fiji—will be asked
to authorise return of a further
£287,000 (3s, a share) of capital.
The holding co. has paid no div.
since 1941, because of the high
rate of Australian income tax.
But since the end of 1943 it has
already returned 6s. a share
(£574,200) of capital. If the
present proposal is adopted,
and there is no sound reason why
it shouldn’t be, 9s. a share
(£861,300) will have been re-
turned, reducing paid capital
(originally £957,000) to £95,700
in Is, shares. Including divs.
paid prior to 1941, those on the
register will have received a total
of £1,428,500, or 14s. lid. per
share. And they still have a
mine in which, at June 30, 1949,
there was 1,025,000 tons of posi-
tive ore, averaging 7.9dwt., and
175,000 of probable ore, expected
to * average 7.2dwt. On a
throughput of 140,000 tons p.a.
there is thus over eight years’
work ahead of the mill, with the
possibility of a lot more payable
stuff being opened up in the
northern extension of No. 7 level
and elsewhere. At the current
price of 12s. a share, the net
cost of the scrip is 9s. The
market thus values the whole
undertaking at £909,150, E. G.
Theodore, who died on Feb. 9,
and whose estate was valued at
£528,000-odd for probate, was
one of the original syndicate
which sold the venture to Em-
peror Mines, Ltd., of which he
was a director for many years.


;; *V; C
* .
3N
m V:
: % f
ft
\
w
$
r&tv&wi
vK
V • .
-•v.
■ ’V*
;
°ri(
'Spomms
DID yOU KNOW THAT
Me miiIIU
f
%
ft*
Ac
3t
as&t
:■ -r
isv
Bor
•773 D-11.49
>A/so BRIGHT and DARK Flake Cut for fhe Pipe,
TOOK PLACE ON JAN 6™ 1851.'
WHEN TWO SCULLERS, HOWARD
AND WfGRATH ROWED A COURSE
FROM BALMAIN POINT ROUND
PINCHGUT Csmtrtuewt)WO
BACK.THE RACE WAS FORf 15.
MCGRATH WAS THE WINNER,
IN THE A.J.C DECRY OF 18% RUN AT RANDWICK,
’CHARGE* RAN RIGHT OFF THE COURSE NEAR
TUB MILE POST UNTIL HE WAS AMONG ,
THE TREES NEAR THE OUTERFENCE.THE
OTHER JOCKEYS SLOWED THEIR MOUNTS
TO A WALK,WAITED UHTIL*CHARfiE*CAME
BACK AND TOOK THE LEAD AGAIN*
’CHARGE* WON BY A HEAD FROM "COIL*
WITH "SABRETACHE* A CLOSE THIRD. ’
SMOKERS AGREE THAT CHAMPION
TOBACCO. WHETHER IT BE FINE CUT,
READY RUBBED OR FLAKE CUT FOR
THE PIPE GIVES THE UTMOST
SMOKING SATISFACTION...IT IS
INDEED A C//AMP/0/V SMOXI
Business. Rollery. etc.
“Give Us the Tools. . . .**
A number of factors have
combined to cause a grave lag
in capital investment in Aus-
tralia. The lag is evident in the
slow tooling-up of vital in-
dustries and in the deterioration
of existing essential services
more than in the capital ex-
penditure by companies, the
land industries and Government
business undertakings.
. There has never been a greater
call by public companies for
funds than there was during the
first six months of 1950. But
very few concerns feel that they
have all the factory equipment
that they need in order to cope
with the growing population and
meet the increasing efficiency of
overseas competitors. Broken
Hill Prop., for instance,- has
been moving very slowly in get-
ting its tinplate works organised,
and the cost of equipping it has
risen considerably since the
pound was devalued last Sep-
tember.
Australia is short of essential
materials and essential man-
power on all sides. Five years
after the war in the Pacific
ended there is still a sad short-
age of housing, and no .farmer
is in a position to get all the
fencing-wire, wire-netting, gal-
vanised-iron, piping, timber,
farm implements or vehicles
that he needs.
The great iron’and steel plants
at Newcastle, Port Kembla and
Whyalla are working only at
partial capacity because of the
shortage of coal; and from this
reduced output of iron and steel
stem many other shortages. The
road systems of the Common-
wealth, which had reached a
high standard before the war,
are now everywhere falling into
disrepair through lack of main-
tenance, and this was happening
long before the heavy rains in
N. S. Wales and Queensland
speeded their breaking-up. The
railways are in bad shape, too,
from the point of view of both
rolling-stock and tracks.
Shipping facilities are far
from what they used to be. The
coastal passenger services are
still a long way short of what
they were before the war. The
Kanimbla and Westralia are
still out of service five years
after the end of the war. The
Duntroon is only now about to
start again. And cargo services
are inadequate, especially to and
from Tasmania.
In some directions conditions
are getting progressively worse.
Lack of rail transport has
thrown an additional burden on
road hauliers, and this has
.tended to accelerate the de-
terioration of highways, which
means that' it gets more difficult
each month to transport
materials essential to the main-
tenance of existing manufactur-
ing and transport facilities.
The mainland railways of the
Commonwealth are now carry-
ing freight daily at the rate of
about 19 million ton miles, com-
pared with 13 million ton miles
before the war. Yet the call is
for a much greater haulage.
Coastal shipping, on the other
hand, is handling a smaller ton-
nage than before the war. In
1938-39 the tonnage shipped,
from all Australian ports in
coastal vessels averaged 746,000
tons a month. For 1948-49 the
average was only 620,000 tons a
month.
In March, Australia had
2,527,000 persons in employ-
ment (outside the rural indus-
tries), compared with 1,730,000
in July, 1939. Yet this greatly-
increased industrial and ad-
ministrative force was falling
down in the direction of
essential basic production. Coal
in particular has shown but a
small increase in output com-
pared with the year 1938-39.
Output for 1948-49 was only
about 25 p.c. greater than in
that last pre-war year, in spite
of the hungry demand. Produc-
cohdewhed
CELL
“I'll have to put you in here tonight , Slasher;
we're full up.”
tion of steel over the same 10-
year period showed little or no
increase, and in the 12 months
to June 30 last we were still on
about the 1938-39 level of steel
output. The monthly rate of
production is at present higher
than it was 11 years ago, but it
is by no means enough to meet
Australian requirements, let
alone the export market that is
available for our basic iron and
steel, which is still the cheapest
in the world.
Output of bricks, too, is still
lower than the pre-war .aver-
age. On the other hand, out-
put and consumption of beer
in Australia has nearly doubled.
And output of domestic re-
frigerators has risen from a
monthly average of 2458 in
1938-39 to over 12,000 for
1948-49. That figure was well
maintained during the year to
June 30 last.
It has been plain for 3 con-
siderable time that there has
been too much emphasis in
Australia on the production of
“consumption” goods, and, too
often, upon luxury goods. At
a time when homes and essential
plumbing are in short supply a
huge production of beer and re-
frigerators, to name only two
things, seems to be out of place,
however welcome these trends
might be in other times. The
reason for these trends is, prob-
ably, that refrigerators, say, can
be produced, whereas there are
great difficulties in the way of
turning out building materials,
most of them centring round
the fact that coal, steel and
manpower are not available in
sufficient, quantities.
Australia has a major prob-
lem in front of it. We must get
back to a balanced economy—
away from the “milk-bar
economy” which Professor Cop-
land has so aptly described, and
give much more attention to
tooling-up for the production of
more essential goods, such as
steel and steel products, homes,
farm equipment, transport
facilities, ships, roads and heavy
machinery. We can do none of
these things without a far
greater supply of coal, and we
must recognise that problem
every day. We may also have
to do without many “consumer
goods” for a while.
Coal, then, is one of the prin-
cipal factors in our present eco-
nomic anaemia. We generate
most of our electric power from
coal, and power is under-
supplied almost everywhere in
the Commonwealth. “Labor”
politics remain one of the chief
obstructions in the way of get-
ting coal output up to what it
ought to be, and the blocking of
anti-Communist legislation is an
example of it. The McGirr
Government in N. S. Wales has
also shilly-shallied over the
problem and shown no real
concern as to its solution.
More coal and greater output
per man per hour. That is the
only real remedy for a disease
which, in the Commonwealth, is
daily becoming more and* more
malignant.. It may involve a
tapering-off of the Federal Gov-
ernment’s “full - employment”
policy so thht men engaged in
non-productive pursuits will find
it necessary to take a job in
more essential work,* As it is,
consumer demand, which to an
extent stands in the way of capi-
tal re-equipment, is overtaxing
the capital equipment as it
already exists.
slightly stronger at
545. 3d. last week, returns 3.1
p.c. on the present div. basis.
The scrip is about 3s. below the
year’s peak. Big things are
afoot, but benefits are being
deferred.
• ♦ * «
The market last week was
awaiting the annual report of
Masonite with pleasurable antici-
pation. On Thursday there were
transactions in the ords. at 675.
—a rise of over 10s. in a few
weeks. Masonite is a good stock,
and the earning potential is high.
* ♦ ♦ «
Heavy rain has been an addi-
tional problem for Metropolitan
Cement, Maldon (N.S.W.). The
co. had enough construction
difficulties in front of it without
the adverse weather conditions.
Production was hoped to begin
last month. The longer a start
is delayed the heavier the capital
cost of the undertaking (and the
larger the overdraft) is likely to
be. Dealings in thp market con-
tinue at a shilling or two below
par. Divs. seem along way off still.
♦ * * *
Australia’s favorable trade
balance during 1949-50 was £79
million. Exports were £74 mil-
lion greater at £615 million, and
imports were £122 million higher
at £536 million. Though there
was a trade deficit with the
dollar area of £6 million, this
was less than half the 1948-49
figure. Exports to the United
States increased by £lB million
during the year, reaching £5O
million, which represented 8 p.c.
of our total exports. Britain
took approximately 40 p.c. of
the total. . Imports from the
U.S.A. totalled £52 million.
Australia, in spite of large wool
sales, bought £4O-million-worth
more from Britain than it sold to
it In 1948-49 the favorable
balance with Britain was £2O
million.


Established 1808
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON $
OSUUJVAX
% WTOD a,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd,
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
• OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
' GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS Z Z PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
L/>
G'g.U
fiVO ,0 e
*oo*
SH
CLOO*
us£
EM
longer.
LAST
SMOOTHER.
SHAVE
jThe
Union Bank
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
{lncorporated in England)
mStounJ methods
an J a century of experience
have resulted in an organisation
idina event mode
providing every modern
landing service .
Of
45
...^
■sr-f
ESTABLISHED 1837
Branches throughout Australia & New Zealand
281 Latrobe St., Melbourne. MU 2321
• Engineers’ Machine Tools. • Portable
Electric Tools 0 Woodworking Machines.
• Circular and Band Saws. 0 All types
Saw Repairs.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... ... .. 2/*-
Yearly Subscription.. t .., 22/6
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper
Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
Setting new standards in
nerfortnance throughout Australia
Bt
...y.Xm
: ' .
J* J
m
i:
■■ ;^fi|
■;;
?•. m
'■' ■ V
lilii «l»ii I
Near Cairns, Q’ld., Nuffield
Vnixtersal Tractor in 3rd
gear trailing 3 - furrou ’
Massey - Harris “ Sunlord **
30in, disc plough, cutting
3 furrows 12in. by 22in.
■
m
t MASeveryWsf.;
For sheer performance, the Nuffield Universal
continues to amaze experienced tractor
operators throughout Australia. In all-round
service, under all conditions working with
all types of trailed equipment and tractor-
mounted implements, too it has proved
absolutely outstanding. Its dependability and
efficiency are what you d expect of a Nuffield
Product . . • built and backed by a name you
FUTX DETAILS AND SPECIFICATIONS
AVAILABLE FROM STATE DISTRIBUTORS.
M e w . PETER LLOYD LTD., 213-217 Elizabeth Street
SYDNEY. 'Phone MA 7765. VICTORIA AND SOUTHERN
I™™*. KUO* MABtaj"! SS- SS&SSSS
it&OiSeverytmny^
6R,SBANE UMT T h |s e MS USf^D^B.^tn? WESTERN AUSTRAL,A:
pX LANE MOTORS PT?. LTD.. 926-928 Hay Street. PERTH (Temporary premises). TASMANIA.
METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD., 36-38 Arqyie Street, HOBART. Phone 4061.
HUFF,ELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. VICTORIA PAfK, ZETLAND, NEW SOUTH WALES
mm
Papuan Apinaipi
“Lemon”: Directors of
Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Co.
state that they have now re-
ceived a plan for the deep test-
drilling of the Lesi structure.
As anticipated in B. 15/3/’5O,
the estimated cost of the plan
is so high as to give P.A.P.
shareholders a shock. In the
words of the circular now issued,
“the deep test-drilling of the
Lesi structure will involve the
expenditure of at least
£600,000.”
Cash in hand is stated to be
approximately £B5OO, and it is
probable that most, if not all,
of this sum will be expended in
returning to the mainland the
drilling plant on loan from the
Commonwealth Government
since 1940. This plant is insured
for £BOO0 —a sum far below to-
day’s replacement cost, although
the rig was used extensively on
the mainland before it was
shipped to Papua, where it has
remained idle for eight years.
The motive-power is steam, and
it is doubtful if the outfit is now
capable of reaching a depth of
5000 ft., even under good con-
ditions, with Papuan firemen and
fuel. If heaving shale is struck,
the rig will be stopped well
above that depth.
In order to do any work at
all, it is essential that the co.
obtains an extension of its
permit from the Government,
“on satisfactory terms,” as the
circular puts it. The current
permit is a renewal, for six
months to September, 1950, of
the last extension which expired
on March 31.
In view of the co.’s financial
position, as now disclosed, the
decision to transfer operations
to the undeveloped Lesi area
before making any proper test
of the Oiapu structure seems to
have been ill-advised. There is
a suggestion that the permit
should be held by doing token
work for a further two years.
It would appear that the only
hope of making a satisfactory
test of the 75 square miles held
under permit by P.A.P. would
be to induce the Australasian
Petroleum Co., already in the
neighborhood, to take over de-
velopment. The A.P. Co, has
already spent millions in regional
and detailed studies and drill-
ing of the areas both to the east
and west of the P.A.P. holding,
and possesses the funds and staff
essential to success in such a
venture. If this were done,
P.A.P. shareholders could prob-
ably still maintain an interest —
and a much more widely-spread
one than they do at present.
The outlook for P.A.P. can
hardly be described as bright,
whatever action it takes ; but, at
the worst, if the procedure sug-
gested is adopted, the prospects
are more attractive than in the
case of any attempt to prove the
area with its existing organisa-
tion.
The costs of sinking a major
test-well on an area of 75 square
miles are just as heavy as on an
area of, say, 20,000 square
miles, and the proportional over-
head expenses are much heavier.
The P.A.P. directors have
given notice of a meeting to be
held on August 18 for the pur-
pose of considering, and, if
thought fit, passing the follow-
ing resolution:
That the directors be authorised to
use every possible means of securing
future extensions of the company’s
permit and to take whatever action
they consider necessary to ensure a
continuation of the company’s activi-
ties. Further, that they be authorised
to continue, within the limits of
the finance available, the preliminary
development of the proposed Lesi
drilling area, in anticipation of the
company securing additional capital
to undertake the drilling of a deep
test-well in the Lesi structure.
That’s where the matter stands
for the present.
New Zealand' Company Law
To bring New Zealand’s Com-
panies’ Act abreast of develop-
ment a Companies’ Act Revi-
sion Committee got into harness
early in July and has months of
work ahead of it before it
finishes delving into company
facts and figures and sifting
them for law draftsmen. The
committee is a panel of experts,
headed by H. D. C. Adams, of
the Law Drafting Office, with
E. C. Adams, Registrar of Com-
panies, as his right-hand man,
and six other members, who
represent the Law Society, the
Society of Accountants, the
Stock Exchange, the Associated
Chambers of Commerce and the
Institute of Secretaries. There
should be enough talent to do a
thorough job. Mostly it will be
slow, painstaking work, out of
the limelight, and the odds are
a bill will be ready for Parlia-
ment in 1951. It might be 1952
before the new Act is ready to
operate.
N.Z.’s starting-point is the
English Companies’ Act, 1948,
which gives the clue to up-to-
the-minute control under condi-
tions that differ from those in
Maoriland, but may be made
partly applicable on this side of
the globe. It’s nearly 20 years
since M.L.’s last revision, in-
spired by the English Act of
1929, and 17 years since the Act
of 1933 came into force.
In late years Maoriland share-
holders and investors have been
asking for more guidance, and
want cos. to be freer with infor-
mation, particularly holding
concerns and their subsidiaries,
which have been multiplying.
There’s also room for a break-
away from the old-time practice
of handing down directorates
from father to son, in-laws, or
friends, which doesn’t give much
chance for outsiders. The age
average of directorates, too,
could be cut down by 10 years
or so on many boards with
general benefit.
Another side concerns medium
to small investors, who haven’t
always had an even chance
when new share-issues have been
oversubscribed, because they’ve
been crowded out by speculators
and larger fry. The trouble here
is that genuine applicants, who
apply for only as many shares as
they can afford, are liable to be
low on the list when graded with
those who apply for more than
they can take up in the hope
that they will get sizeable par-
cels in rationing.
Monopolies won’t be over-
looked, and the microscope will
be directed on to balance-sheets
and articles of association.
There’s a growing tendency for
N.Z. cos. to include figures for
the two latest years in reports,
and this should be encouraged,
if not made general. Many cos.
are still far too conservative, and
the average shareholder is often
unable to decide whether facts
concealed point to weakness or
strength.
It’s a fruitful field for reform.
Bradford Cotton ords. have
firmed to 455. 6d. after a de-
pressed period, and return 4.4
p.c. on the customary 10 p.c.
div. basis. This concern has a
sound background, and the pros-
pect of increased competition
from British manufacturers of
denims, dungarees, etc., is reced-
ing as time goes by without any
alteration in the exchange rate.
Benefit of new plant bought with
new capital should be noticeable
during the current term. The
co.’s managing-director, Mr. R.
J. Webster, has recommended
that Australia should withdraw
from the Geneva Agreement on
Tariff and Trade, since, if it is
extended, it will expose our
economy to increased competi-
tion,
* * * *
A. G. Sims ords. (B. 5/7/’5O).
took an upturn recently. The
co. is engaged in scrap-metal
dealing and reclaiming tin and
other metals from scrap. There
is a large, unsatisfied demand
for what the co. has in stock,
though the price of most metals
is controlled in the Common-
wealth. The ss. ords. at 7s. Bd.
will return 5.3 p.c. if the 8 p.c.
div. is repeated. The co. has a
larger capital to spread earnings
over now, but turnover should be
growing, too.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Blackouts have replaced the rain as
chief grumble-topic. The dailies seem
to have a permanent poster; “Blackouts
worst on record.” And it never seems to
be an overstatement.
The Baby Bunting Ball, held at
Prince’s in aid of Food for Babies, was
well attended and remarkably well
dressed considering that most people had
to get ready for it by candle-light. It
was noted that men are becoming much
more adventurous in their dressing, one
youth sporting a dark-red velveteen
dfimer-jacket. If this sort of thing goes
on women will have to consult their
partners before deciding what to wear
themselves. Mrs. Ken Pointing, presi-
dent of the ball committee, swept round
from place to place in an ice-blue satin
dress specially designed for swirling. The
Geoff Spencer-Nolans were there, also
the Tim Barkers. Mrs, Robert Pollock
was still gay after having sewn names on
the 500 baby dolls used for the guessing
competition. The winner who chose the
right names (Peter and Paulette) received
a pearl-fox collar and a bottle of Scotch.
Some of the names used were quaint and
imaginative: Camilla, Selina, Georgina,
Miriam, Dinah for a girl; Felix,
Simeon, Geoffrey, Jason for a boy.
Mrs. Pollock revealed that many of
these came from Cole’s Funny Picture
Book, that grotesque terror of our child-
hood.
Choosing names for children is a fas-
cinating pastime. Many people get names
for their babies from the births, deaths
and marriages column, with the result
that the youngsters meet dozens of other
Judiths, Patricias and Jennifers when
they go to school. Others go to the
headlines for inspiration. Perhaps some
infant is being christened Korea at this
very minute (quite a pretty name, too).
In France it is thought smart to call girls
Maggy in the English manner, just as it
is smart at present to shorten Margaret
to Maggie and Elizabeth to Liz. As
fashions in names run in cycles, the next
due are the Early Victorian Caroline
(already well established), Arabella,
Harriet, Clarinda, Louisa and Emily.
Fashion-reporting needs a new deal.
Women want to know, presumably, not
only what is new in fashion but also
what is good, bad, wearable or impos-
sible. Dress-designers and retailers,
being no more sensitive than writers,
actors, artists or musicians, can surely
tolerate something more judicial than the
unalloyed praise which now greets every
mannequin-parade that is put on. Among
the many dress-shows at present rampant
in Sydney, David Jones’ should get
applause for their “budget” display, in
which all the mannequins had prices
attached, and all the prices were within
the range of the average purse. The
clothes themselves were wearable but un-
exciting, except for the cotton Mexican
prints, which, besides being startling and
dramatic, were wondrous low in price.
The “new straight line” was represented
mostly by fullness scaled down to
skimpiness. Black linen for summer wear
was shown, but as it made even the
models look like “little orphan Annie,”
it was alarming to think what it would
do to the less-young and -beautiful. Black
linen is by no means thing to
wear in the dazzling Sydney summer or
under a Drysdale sky outback. The
white pique evening dresses were praise-
worthy. So was the efficient presenta-
tion of the display, designed to eliminate
neck-craning.
Peach-blossom decorated the rooms of
the Queen Victoria Club when Mrs.
Arthur Scrivener, the “grandmother” of
the club, spoke on its history. In a most
interesting talk she told of the activities
of the club over the years, and men-
tioned the many distinguished people
who have patronised it. The president,
Mrs. George Bardsley, read a letter from
Mrs. J. E. Clark, who is at present in
England. Mrs. Clark recently visited
Lady Cowrie, who showed that her keen
interest in the club has not waned since
she left Australia.
Later in the week the Younger Set of
the Queen Victoria Club held a dance at
the Drummoyne home of Mrs. Bardsley,
whose daughter Janet helped her to enter-
tain. Mrs. Bardsley’s main reception-
room, which recalls the elegance of
Edwardian days, is a charming setting
for a party, its tall french windows open-
ing to the tiled veranda, where young
couples danced in sight of the lantern-lit
garden and the river. The John Antills
were present, also the Russell Davises.
(Mrs. John Cahill wore a striking brown
lace dress with a sequinned stole. Mrs.
Bill Young made good humor a certainty
wherever she went, and Mrs. John Parrett
was attractive in black velvet and a silver-
fox collar. Mrs. Parrett’s young daughter
Susie, who recently completed work as
the juvenile Eileen Joyce in the film
“Prelude,” is apparently quite unaffected
by being made a film-star, and, her
mother says, would rather read a “comic”
than a Press notice about herself. As the
Queen Victoria Club devotes itself to
helping young musicians and singers,
much of the conversation at this Younger
Set dance naturally turned to music,
ballet and the opera.
Ski-addicts are making for the snow-
fields in great numbers. Among those at
present “herring-boning” up the hills and
whizzing down again are Margaret
Gillan, of Willowvale, Bombala, and
Barbara Ley, of Killara.
Camilla Buckworth takes wing shortly
for her homeland, England, after having
lived in Sydney for the past three years.
As Camilla Lay (her maiden name) she
is known to radio audiences for her work
in “Blue Hills” and “The Fortunes of
Richard Mahony.”, Her favorite role
was Miranda in “Dragonwyck.” She has
also appeared at the Royal, the Minerva
and the Independent. Camilla’s main
purpose in returning home is to see her
mother, who has been ill, but her enter-
prising spirit (plus a plane) is taking her
back via America to look television over.
Clarice Boyce photo.
Maybe h.c.l. is taking its toll, or it
could be that Sydney’s boast of being a
cultural centre has developed rather a
hollow ring; anyway, it seems passing
strange that there have been seats to spare
when one of the world’s really great
voices—that of William Warfield, the
American negro baritone —was raised in
the Town Hall on two nights last week.
Those who did attend were rewarded with
singing in which artistic, beauty was
combined with power—an alliance as
attractive as it is rare. It was not
surprising, in view of past experience, that
the bulk of the Central European bloc,
who loom so large when the artist is a
Central European, was for the most part
missing. But Society didn’t seem to hear
the call in great numbers, either.
As this is Mood-donors’ month,
country people can help the Red Cross
appeal by joining their local blood-
donors’ panel. There are already 111 of
these in N.S.W. All that has to be done
is to consult the local Red Cross branch.
The members of these panels donate
blood for use only in their own district,
which saves time and lives as well as
relieving the strain on the Sydney Blood
Bank. Where there is no such panel it
is worth-while for generous-hearted
people in country districts to form one
with the help of the local doctor.
When prizes were presented for the
Public-Speaking Competition (1950) of
the Royal Empire Society, members and
friends had an opportunity of hearing
some brilliant speeches from the school-
boys and -girls who were the winners.
The deft precision of Joan Newington
(Dover Heights) and the vehement
rhetoric of Marguerite Hides (Hornsby
High) left everyone convinced that
Britain’s mOral power and prestige were
not lessened but even increased by recent
changes in the Empire. The coveted
shield was won by boys from Sydney
High, who have held it for three years.
The girls from Dover Heights Home
Science School ran them very close on
points, even surpassing them in actual
marks. At the meeting Mr. Alfred
Stephen was in the chair, and the prizes
were handed out by Mr. J. G. McKenzie,
Director-General of Education.
From Melbourne
Mrs. Iris Clarke, who was recenffy
appointed organiser of auxiliaries to
Eye and Ear Hospital, has wasted no
time in getting down to J vork *
money-spinning effort will be an un
hat parade which will be staged rn
Toorak home of Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh,
on August 22, at 8 p.m. Tickets
two guineas each. Proceeds of the g
will be shared by the E. and E. Hospita
and the War Widows’ Guild, president ot
which is Mrs. G. A. Vasey, who is Mrs.
Sleigh’s sister. The hats, which will come
from Tommy Harrison’s salon, will repre-
sent the four seasons. In addition to
Mrs. Clarke, those assisting Mrs. Sieign
include Mesdames Ronald Marriott,
B. Heam, Eric Avery, Russell Coldham
and Archie Michaelis. _____
Anne Collins exmbited to Presswomen
an interesting collection of hats at the
Oriental Hotel. There were- hats of rich
glowing citrus-yellow, of coral, tangerine,
soft limes, pastel-pink and rose. Theie
were Leghorns, pedal-straw, grosgrain and
linen, all made up into the most fascinat-
ing shapes. A number of smart models
were made of white laize —a very fine
linen-like straw —and of white waffle-
pique. Most of them relied on simplicity
for their charm. There were few flower-
trimmed hats —Anne says these will come
later in the season —but almost every hat
had its face-flattering veil. Hie dual-
purpose “accessory” veil was featured;
it is made of coarse mesh in black or
navy, plain for daytime, studded with
diamente for after five-o’clock. It
can be worn as an eye-veil or over the
face to suit any individual hat, and is
finished with a neat keyhole bound with
velvet and, with a little matching bow,
can be worn without a hat at night.
Among unusual hats in this Sydney col-
lection was a French adaptation fashioned
with the new mushroom droop in natural
fringed Leghorn with a black velvet
crown. Another was a “flying-saucer”
hat with a Renaissance influence —rather
a paradox. It was made of black laize
and cut on flat, round lines and needed
only a draped plume to become the hat
of a French gallant. Instead, it was worn
over a Mona Lisa veil of stiffened
macrame, caught under the chin and tied
on top of the head. The Gibson Girl
boater, a wide-brimmed, severely-plain
hat adapted from a Christian Dior model,
was attractive. The white laize beehive
hat, with its face-veil, is just the thing
for the young, pretty girl, and black and
white, separately or together, are the
colors for the coming season. A white
pique hat with a rolled brim, banded with
black velvet and finished with a white
pique rose, was attractive. Two tiny
white swallows fluttering on the veil of
another white laize hat were an unusual
note. Lilacs massed on pastel-pink satin,
corn-cobs and daisies on a large natural
straw, a large black velvet plateau simply
finished with a fern-patterned Chantilly
lace veil, white guipure lace, dewdrop-
spangled and finished with tiny natural
straw flowers, were other striking
creations.
Mrs. Richard Buxton, formerly Patricia
O’Hearae, of Perth, is an old Mande-
ville Hall girl, and recently moved into
her home in Brighton, which she redeco-
rated, She is at present helping her
husband, who is one of the ticket-secre-
taries for the Old Xavirians Association
Ball, which will be held at St. Kilda Town
Hall on August 22. Pat will also lend
there her artistic touch with the decora-
tions.
Mrs. Maie Hoban’s party at the
Oriental Hotel had a dual purpose. It
welcomed home Doris Fitton and intro-
duced members of the “Dark of the
Moon” cast. Mrs. Hoban wore an ink-
blue tailored suit, fox furs and a feathered
ink-blue felt hat. Under her fox cape
Doris wore a simple black frock; her
black tulle snood was sequin-trimmed.
Mrs. Dan Reddan added a matching
velvet turban to her donkey-brown
tailored coat. Mrs. T. J. Ryan was in
black suit and felt hat. Mrs. Robert
Money’s powder-blue frock was worn
under a dyed-ermine coat and with
smart navy hat. Mrs. Leslie Potter’s
wide-brimmed black velvet hat had a
winter-white felt crown and was worn
with a black jacket-suit. An ink-blue
ensemble and an ink-blue-and-white gros-
grain hat were the choice of Mrs. J
Rowan. Doreen Wilson, who stars in
“Song of Norway,” wore a sable scarf
with her black frock and upturned black
hat. June Brown, of the “Harvey” cast
was in jade-green. Rosemary Miller
chose a black tailored coat and was hat-
less. Valerie Jack’s black velvet cap was
embroidered with pearls; her coat was
of pine-green wool. Mrs. John Faassen
teamed a dove-grey jacket-suit and a black
hat.
The premiere of “Dark of the Moon”
at the Comedy left the audience in a
rather startled frame of mind, especially
concerning the revival scene, but, on the
whole, this production of Sydney’s Doris
Fitton’s was enjoyable. In the audience
were Mrs. John Kaufman, in black velvet,
white Arctic foxes and tiny black sequin
theatre-hat; Ann Mclntyre, in black
velvet; Mrs. Olive Thring, ermine touch-
ing up her sombre velvets ; Betty David-
son in midnight-blue velvet; Mrs. John
Mollard, black velvet and lace her
choice; Mrs. Tom Carlyon, her pearl-
tinted satin gown topped. by a platina-
fox stole; Mrs. E. L. G. Cresswell, her
taffetas in midnight blue ; Lady Knox in
lime-green satins; Mrs. Rupert Downes,
combining pine-green in gown and steel-
grey in velvet jacket; Daphne Kaufman,
her pink taffetas under pale-grey chiffon;
Mrs. Maurice Nathan in soft beige
crepe; and Mrs. Eric Fowler, her royal-
blue cloque taffeta having multicolored
sequins massed on the bodice and also
on the lapels of the matching short
jacket.
For the American Night at Claridge’s
the orchestra dressed as cowboys and the
waiters as Mexican caballeros; even
Hans, the wizard of the “squeeze-box,”
donped a glamorised Mexican creation,
and women guests wore their best gowns.
Ash-blonde mannequin Carmen del’-
Orefice wore a black-spotted net gown
made over taffeta, Margot Price a royal-
blue-and-white-patterned linen, Ruth
Hancock an all-black ensemble, and
Karen Scammell emerald-green chiffon,
a perfect set-off for her titian hair.
Among Americans present were Mrs.
Adrian Perry, whose short evening frock
was of brown printed tissue taffeta ; Mrs.
Frank Gillespie, in a gunmetal satin bal-
lerina frock, and Mrs. Bill Taylor, her
gown of black lace. Mrs. Tony
Shepherd’s garnet-red wool gown had the
off-the-shoulder bodice trimmed with
matching sequins. Mrs. Edmund Alcock’s
pastel-pink satins were encrusted with
glistening diamente trimming. Mrs.
Walter Ebstein’s dove-grey chiffon frock
was short, the full skirt having ruffles of
the material swirling from hem to waist.
Opalescent beads were clustered on the
strapless bodice of the pastel-pink satin
gown worn by Mrs. Bill Forsyth. Gloria
Ladd’s American Beauty angora dinner
gown featured a draped bodice and off-
the-shoulder neckline. Sheila Scottar’s
Jacques Path frock of black-and-white-
checked taffeta was short, the bodice
strapless and edged with black and white
to match the hem ; with it went a white
stiffened pique collar and a bow-tie of
black taffeta. Mrs. Bill Gluth’s black
satin strapless gown had a heart-shaped
neckline and a tulle overskirt. Large
blue-and-white-checks printed on taffeta
formed Mrs. Charles Lane’s frock. A
moulded red velvet dinner gown was
Mrs. Athol Shmith’s choice. Over a
Patou-pink lace gown Mrs, Maurice
Dowd wore a pale-mauve jacket em-
broidered with colored sequins.
% The Delphic dinner-dance organised by
members of the Jessie Henderson
Auxiliary to the Melbourne District
Nursing Society and After-care Hospital
was very successful. President of the
auxiliary, Mrs. Don Hallenstein, wore a
powder-blue crepe gown trimmed with
crystal beads. Ticket-secretaries were
Mrs. Arthur Laver, in lilac moire taffeta,
and Mrs. Orwell Michaelis, her pastel-
blue chiffons carrying clusters of match-
ing beads. Mrs. Lionel Newton’s black
velvet gown had an unusual off-the-
shoulder bertha of black guipure la ce -
Mrs. Brab Lockwood wore midnight-blu e
satin, the skirt having floating
Mrs. Tom Farrell combined black lace
and tulle. Mrs. Frank Lonie’s beaded
white crepes had scalloped cape sleeves.
Mrs. Vernon Jones teamed a black tulle
skirt and crimson velvet strapless top-
Mrs. Ken Luke’s strapless bouffant black
tulle gown was splashed with deep-greed
sequins.


Don’t say Gin
• • • say
0
0
o
6
PERSONAL ITEMS
After having had its marrow frozen by
Bertrand Russell, with his pictures of the
horrors of atomic warfare, Melbourne is
at present sampling the mental equip-
ment of another English lecturer, Dr.
Donald Hunter, head of the London
Hospital. Dr. Hunter has been on the
inside of what Russell describes from
the outside —as an expert on the effects
of uranium rays and toxic gases, he was
employed by the British Government to
combat such effects among war-
workers and to devise means of counter-
ing possible Nazi gas attacks. But Hitler
used his toxins on his generals. German
files are said to disclose that the Fiihrer,
like Cesare Borgia, invited unwanted
generals to dinner, bored holes in the
corks of champagne bottles and injected
poison. Dr. Hunter trains Common-
wealth doctors for the highest British
medical degree—membership of the Royal
College of Physicians. He’s in Australia
to lecture to doctors and medical students.
Finished with figures, Thomas Baker
Heffer, a Maorilander who joined the
’Wales 47 years back and was its g.-m.
for the last five years. Old Digger of
four years’ service, he was in France and
Belgium, was wounded twice and returned
captain. His next war, in which he main-
tained a heavy barrage from the Ma State,
was against nationalisation of banking.
He plays golf.
Crook news for crooks, appointment
of Superintendent Frank William Lyon
as boss of Victoria’s C. 1.8., a posting
backed by 32 years in the force, 21 of
them with the C. 1.8. Trap-mouthed,
stump-jawed, a hard-as-nails 55, he has
made murderers his meat —including the
snaring of the murderer of a man
in the Treasury Gardens in 1939,
the killer of two soldiers near Geelong
in 1942, and, in the same’ year, finding
the American soldier Leonski, who ran
amuck and murdered three Melbourne
women. Which is why, added to lesser-
known crime-scotching, to friend and foe
Lyon is “Tiger,”
“Macnell”: Directing the timed crash
of controlled broad-
sides with which British
and Australian war-
ships are lathe ring
Korea’s seaboard, Rear-
Admiral William Ger-
rard Andrewes, R.N.,
sub.-lieutenant at Jut-
land and .invasion expert
of Sicily, Italy and Nor-
mandy. A torpedo-
specialist, he was execu-
tive-officer of battleship
Rodney in 1937, his next
command the Australian
seaplane - carrier Alba-
tross, which ugly duck-
ling he left to join the
Joint Planning Staff,
which, as early as 1942,
was preparing for the
Normandy invasion.
Here Andrewes was
working with Admiral
Sir Patrick Brind, then
boss of the Home Fleet,
and with him Andrewes
was to continue the asso-
ciation in the Pacific
Fleet in 1944 - 45.
Andrewes shipped sea-
legs again in cruiser
Uganda, whose triple
6in. turrets he fought
in the Atlantic, and,
with the famous Force
r , .-i . . „ .
“K,” at the invasion of Sicily and Italy,
coming out with D.S.O. and several
“mentions.” His last command before
becoming Chief Naval Member at the
Imperial Defence College was fleet-
carrier Indomitable, also a Pacific
veteran. After a recent close-range slam
at the western Korean port of Inchon,
the American admiral up there com-
mented: “We are indeed glad to have
the sure, fast-firing British with us.”
The British Navy is sure, and fast-firing,
and a warm sense of security stems from
the fact that a battle-wise seaman com-
mands the Old Firm’s Korean con-
tingent.
(Modelled by Frith.)
“T. THE R.”
Guadalcanal and Cape Gloucester are
names well-established in history, along
with the American Ist Marine Division
which put them on the map. In the jungle
long before the Marines went in, spying,
checking, counting, were a pair of Aus-
tralian eyes, the property of Lt.-Colonel
John Mather, of Newcastle (N.S.W.).
What he saw, crouched on the outskirts
of Jap. camps and fortifications, was
radioed back to Marine headquarters,
whence the information ultimately found
its way to the director-control-towers of
American battleships and Australian
cruisers, with explosive results. The job
took cold courage and considerable skill
—if caught, the' scout would not only
have been dispatched with dispatch, but
his presence would have warned the de-
fenders of coming Allied attention. Last
week in Washington, at the Marine
Division’s annual get-together, Mather’s
work was rewarded by presentation of
the American Legion of Merit.
Recently resigned from the Jury Chair
of English Language and Literature at
Adelaide ’Varsity, which his mother
established in 1921, Charles Rischbieth
Jury intends to devote his time to long-
deferred book-writing. A dapper little
man who fought in both wars (the Kaiser
interrupting his studies at Oxford), he has
written several books of classical verse,
and is a well-known A.B.C, speaker.
Fifty-six finds him still a bachelor.
Two good men figure in the S.
Australian R.S.L. change of presidency.
Calling it a day, Brigadier Arthur
Seaforth Blackburn, barrister, son
of a canon, two-war Digger and
V.C. He won his For Valor at
Pozieres, where, as recorded in the
Official History, leading a bombing party
into the German trenches, he made his
“fifth, sixth and seventh attempts to
advance; though of his 70 n.c.os. and
men about 40 had been killed or
wounded.” Blackburn fought at'Galli-
poli as well as in France, and on return
represented Sturt for three years in the
S.A. Assembly. He was Adelaide’s City
Coroner before joining the A.I.F. in 1940,
took his battalion to the Middle East,
and, when the Pacific pot boiled over, was
sent to command the Digger “Blackforce”
on their forlorn hope in Java. For the
next three years he was a p>o.-w. of the
Japs; on return from that he was
appointed R.S.L. president, his second
term. Now taking over, Brigadier T. C.
Eastick, who took the 2/7th Field Regi-
ment overseas in the late shindy, returned
in 1943 with command of the 7th Divi-
sion’s artillery, shipped up to New
Guinea with that hard-fought lot, shifted
to the 9th Division for the Borneo show,
won D. 5.0., and, while Major-General
Wooten was in Australia, commanded the
division. The new man is well-equipped
—he’s been vice-president of the branch
since 1947, and is the first of the War II
Digger crop to hold the presidency.
The march of time has produced a
brand-new legal branch—aviation law —
of which H. W. Poulton is one of Aus-
tralia’s leading exponents. Principal
legal officer of the department of Civil
Aviation, he learnt his pothooks at Mel-
bourne’s Coburg High, polished them
with a scholarship to Scotch extending
to a senior Government scholarship to
the University, and thence graduated
brilliantly with Bachelor of Laws, Master
of Laws and Bachelor of Arts. As an air-
law expert he has been adviser to Aus-
tralian delegations to the International
Civil Aviation Organisation’s conferences
abroad ; now he’s off to Yale University
to load up with more knowledge under
the Harkness Fellowship.
New member of Maoriland’s Supreme
Court Bench, F. B. Adams, of Dunedin,
wnose father, the late Justice A. S.
Adams, sat on the same Bench for 12
years from 1921. The family has been
in law in the Scotchbyterian city for 67
years. Admitted in 1911, F.B. had been
lecturer at Otago University before he
took on a four-year brief, with others, in
the case World v. Kaiser. He was
wounded at Bapaume. In camp again in
1940, an injury kept him localised with
the Home Guard.
Dubois has limned to the life this
American who called in the other day to
shake the collective hand of The
Bulletin. Director of the U.S. Informa-
tion Service in Sydney, Tom Alexander is
a newspaperman himself. One-time editor
of the Miami “Sun,” he took his Press
know-how into Uncle Sam’s Navy‘soon
after Pearl Harbor, served in carriers in
the North Atlantic, shifted east to the
Pacific as o.c. of the Fleet Photographic
Unit (some of his photographs were used
in that splendid sea-drama “Fighting
Lady”) and clewed up as Press Relations
Officer to Secretary of the Navy
UNCLE SAM’S NEWS-MAN.
Forrestal, in Washington. With Hiro-
shima’s bomb directing Allied propa-
ganda into another channel, Alexander
was sent to Princeton University to learn
what makes the Jap. tick and his
language, and on the staff of Radio
Tokyo he wrote scripts for Jap. actors,
trying to get the meaning of democracy
across. A liking for radio work de-
veloped into an A.B.C. documentary,
“Diary of an American Negro,” and, on
July 4 last, “The Story of Harry Tru-
man.” Now Alexander has shifted to
the theatre, and next month his play,
“Orney Boy,” will hit the boards at
Sydney’s Independent.
Passed on in Brisbane, at 71, knight
Fergus McMaster, grand old Scot, who
helped found Qantas way back in 1920,
and was the first chairman when the
concern expanded into Qantas Empire
Airways. Queensland grazier and Old
Digger, for years he looked after the
cash of the Queensland Country party.
Shrewdly, as evidenced by this memory
of “K. 8.,” an old friend:
Apart from sitting in his corner at a political
contest, at which he was handsomely wrdloped,
my outstanding memory of Fergus was obtained
at a crocodile hunt in the Gulf country. It
was a nasty morning pthe water was cold, green,
repellent, dotted with pairs of bubbles which
were the snouts of the man-eaters. It was 150
yards across that river. The thought of swim-
ming it struck me with a shiver. “I wouldn’t
swim that hole for a thousand quid,” I volun-
teered the information. “Nah. Wouldn’t ye?”
Fergus asked. “I would not!” I replied. “It
wouldn’t be any good to me. I’d be a nervous
wreck if I ever did get to the other side. Would
you? Would you do it for two thousand?”
“Oh Weel,” said Fergus, “Ah might gi’e it a
shot if Ah got the money firrst.”
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 52, Robert Parker Jack, member
of the Joint Coal Board since 1947, miner at
16 and mine-manager at 23. The youngest
colliery-inspector in the N.S.W. Mines Depart-
ment’s history, he kept climbing till, in 1942,
the South Bulli pitboy became secretary to the
Commonwealth Coal Commissioner. One of
the best-known men in his game in Australia,
he was reputed to have been down just about
every coalmine in the Commonwealth.
At 87, Arthur Chase Wright, a Londoner who
landed in Melbourne in 1883 and joined the
Colonial Sugar Refining Co. six years later. At
30 he opened the co.’s Brisbane branch, .and
was still its manager when he retired 30 years
later, in 1923. Many of the top men of C.S.R.
will remember A.C.W.’s training in the Brisbane
office.
At Cowes, Phillip Island (Vic.), at 73, Eustace
George (“Rajah”) Roberts, the man responsible
for preserving the island’s koalas. Formerly a
noted amateur cyclist and one of the founders
of the East Suburban Cycling Club, now the
Hawthorn Club, he was its first elected life-
member. He served in the R.A.N. in War I
as a telegraphist in the early days of wireless.
J. E. Webb, for The Bulletin:
A. A. Milne has laid it down that “the
practice of no form of writing demands such
a height of technical perfection as the writing
of light verse in the Calverley and ‘Punch’
tradition.” Were it possible for Milne to read
C. W. A. (Andree) Hayward’s light verse as
much as I did he would, I am sure, allow that
Calverley, with whom Hayward had much in
common—abundance and diversity of know-
ledge, a scholarly touch, wit and mastery of
rhyme—would have been proud to accept him
as a fellow-craftsman. The Bulletin’s “T. the
R. ’ (short for “Thomas the Rhymer”), “Mid-
ford,” “Iford” and “Pipards” since 1922,
Hayward died at Cremorne, Sydney, last week,
aged 84. His physical powers had given out
months ago, but his fine mind remained
unclouded till the end.
I knew and admired him, the man and the
writer, for half a century. In 1900, then editing
the Kalgoorlie (W.A.) “Sun,” he published my
first contributions to weeklies. Three years later
he gave me a staff job on the Perth “Sunday
Times,” owned by the same people, James
MacCallum Smith and Arthur Reid. After
him in the “Sunday Times” chair came that
most versatile of pressmen Jack Drayton, who
had edited the Sydney “Referee”; Tommy
Walker, who had had an even more hectic
N.S.W. career as scribbler and Parliamentarian,
and who was to become a Westralian Labor
Attorney-General; and myself. Victor Courtney,
who has been editor since 1935, will doubtless
agree, good fellow that he is, that we left him
a lively inheritance.
Before and after his Kalgoorlie and Perth
experiences Hayward edited papers at Cue and
Geraldton. Early to recognise his worth was
Johnnie Drew, proprietor of the Geraldton
“Express.” Having heard him make a witty
after-dinner speech, Drew, who led for Labor
in the Legislative Council, and was in two
Ministries, asked him to come out for a safe
Labor seat—unavailjngly.
My association with The Bulletin dates
from 1920. Two years later, being about to
return to the West for a holiday, I was asked
by S. H. Prior to bring back a writer of topical
verse (“I know you have some good ones over
there”), and Hayward was the obvious choice.
He agreed to come “for six months,” and was
still there in harness, and versifying as brilliantly
as ever, when I retired in 1948.
Hayward’s tall, though stooped, form,
piercing eyes, and an old-world courtesy ex-
pressed, when words were called for, in a soft
musical voice, made him an interesting figure in
any company. Son of a pioneer pastoralist in
South Australia, he was English-born, and
when of an age for schooling was sent to
Rugby, then to Oxford, and thence to South
Africa, where he qualified as a barrister. Rival
Westralian editors used to allege that he gave
up the Law after failing in the defence of a
Kaffir charged with pinching a pair of pants.
Be that as it may, he found his true career in
journalism, and that calling he adorned. He
is survived by Mrs. Hayward, a daughter and
two sons, one of whom is a solicitor at Broken
Hill.


that none of the three waiting boats had
made contact with each othe fT°f e
tionally it was not necessary and had not
been allowed for in the plan.
AS X 5 (Australian Henty-Creer) was
blown to pieces by depth-charges
under a mile from her target, her
narrative, of- which little is known, except
that she, too, breached the nets, must
left to follow X 6 and X 7 in through the
a.-s. nets at Kaafjord entrance.
Both craft knew there was only one
way in through that first tough, closely-
watched mesh—through the gate. Place,
in X 7, cockily waited for it to open to
allow a patrol vessel out to begin her
a.-s. duties, and promptly slipped in be-
neath her, diving deep. Unfortunately
this temporary blindness led him into the
torpedo-nets which stretched round
Lutzow’s empty berth in the middle of the
fjord. It took a precious hour, violently
see-sawing, to get clear, by which time
Place had inadvertently broken surface,
unseen, had put his trim-pump out of
action and put his gyro-compass off the
board with the violence of his heeling.
By six o’clock, having shaken off a wire
across his periscope standard, and pre-
cariously trimmed at periscope-depth,
Place was clear, headed for the target.
Meantime Cameron, in X 6, had an
hour later also safely passed through the
entrance gate, obligingly opened for a craft
whose specific duty was to find things like
the one slipping through beneath it.
During these sub-surface goings-on, life
in Kaafjord pursued its normal way.
Hands were called aboard Tirpitz, the
a.-a. and anti-sabotage watches were set,
the boat-gate in Tirpitz’s torpedo-nets was
opened to boat and tug traffic, and the
hydrophone listening-office ceased work,
all at 5 o’clock.
But now Cameron, in X 6, found his
periscope flooded and the hoisting-motor
burnt out. Conning as best he could
(here the intensive training in break-
downs bore fruit), he tailed behind a con-
venient coaster passing through the gate
in Tirpitz’s torpedo-nets—her immediate
and last security—and in a minute was
inside, within striking-distance of the
target. One can leave to the imagination
the tenseness inside that tiny, deadly craft,
after a journey of over one thousand
miles, now undetected within a matter of
feet of her rearing, unsuspecting target.
Then Cameron ran aground. Five
minutes later, backing and filling, thrust-
ing and dragging desperately under full
power to get clear, he broke surface, a
bare eighty yards from the battleship’s
stirring decks. He was at once sighted
and identified.
NOW without periscope or compass,
he headed his craft blindly for the
battleship, hoping to fix her position by
her shadow. Five minutes, and he was
again entangled in what he thought to
be the torpedo-nets on her far (starb’d)
side, but which in reality was something
dangling from the battleship herself. Ex-
pecting momentarily the crushing blast
of depth-charges, Cameron twisted clear
| and surfaced immediately under the
1 towering bow.
At once a fusillade of small-arms fire
and hand-grenades rained upon him. Dis-
regarding the fire, intent solely on laying
his charges, Cameron put his craft astern
till she bumped the battleship’s hull
abreast “B” turret, forrard of the bridge.
He smashed his most secret equipment,
opened his scuttling-valves, pulled the
leVer which released his charges, and
ordered abandon-ship.
A power-boat from Tirpitz swept along-
side, picked off the crew of four and tried
to take the wallowing X 6 in tow, but X 6
followed her explosives to the bottom.
Now the harbor was in a furore.
Action-stations was sounded, steam raised
and the big ship prepared for sea, to get
her outside of the nets. Watertight doors
were hurriedly closed, divers sent down to
look for limpet-mines, and destroyers
were stoking-up furiously. On second
thoughts, thinking that she would be just
as vulnerable outside her nets, where an
unknown number of enemy submarines
could be waiting, Tirpitz desperately
veered on her port anchor-cable and
heaved in on the starb’d, to try to swing
her bulk sideways from what had been
laid beneath it. While she is making up
her mind how to deal with the situation,
let’s have a look at Place, in X 7.
PnECIDING in favor of going under
Tirpitz’s torpedo-nets, instead of
through the gate, as had X 6, Place took
his craft down to seventy-five feet, expect-
ing to worm smoothly under. Instead,
in his own words:
Went to 75ft. and stuck in the net.
Although we had heard nothing, it was
thought essential to get out, and blowing
to full buoyancy and going full astern
were immediately tried. X 7 came out but
broke surface, going astern to the north
ward.
We went down again immediately but
stuck again by the bow at 95ft. After
about five minutes of wriggling, X 7 started
to rise. The compass had gone wild and
I was uncertain how close to the shore I
was. By some extraordinary lucky chance
we must have either passed under the nets
or worked our way through the boat
passage, for on breaking surface the
Tirpitz, with no intervening nets, was
sighted right ahead, not more than 30 yards
away. Forty-feet was ordered, and at full-
speed X 7 struck Tirpitz on the port side
below “B” turret, and slid gently under the
keel, where the starb’d charge was released
in the full shadow of the ship. Now we
headed down the Tirpitz’s keel; the port
charge was dropped about 150 ft. furthpr
aft —about under “X” turret.
Then an alteration of course was guessed
to try and make the point where we had
come in. At 60ft. we were in the net
again. Without a compass I had no exact
idea of where we were, and XT’s charges
were due to explode in an hour— not to
mention others which might go up any time
after 8 o’clock.
A new technique in getting out of nets
had by this time been developed. The
procedure was to go full ahead, blowing
economically, and then go full astern, the
idea being to get as much way on the
boat as the slack of the nets would allow,
and thus have a certain impetus as well as
the screw-thrust when actually disengaging
from the net. In the next 45 minutes we
were in and out of several nets, with the
air in our last bottle exhausted. At 7.40
X 7 came out while still going ahead, and
slid over the top of the net, between the
buoys on the surface. I did not look at
the Tirpitz at this time, as this method of
overcoming net-defences was new and
absorbing, but I believe we were, at the
time, on her starb’d bow —we had certainly
passed underneath her since the attack. We
were too close, of course, for heavy fire,
but a large number of machine-gun bullets
were heard hitting the casing. Immediately
after passing over the nets X 7 went to the
bottom in 120 ft. The compressor was run
again, and we tried to surface for a look,
so that we could put as much distance as
possible between us and the coming explo-
sion. It was extremely annoying to run
into another net at 60ft.
It must have been “extremely annoy-
ing” ; it must have been a bit nerve-
wracking, as well, entangled sixty feet
under water, .-with eight tons of high ex-
plosive, specially designed to tear open a
battleship’s heavy armor-plate, about to
explode a few yards behind your own
comparative coracle. Which no doubt the
King was remembering when, on the re-
turn of Place and Cameron from
Germany after the war, he pinned their
Victoria Crosses.
HIS boat impossible to control, Place
broke surface several times, like a
gambolling porpoise, and, what with shell-
hits and the slam of depth-charges, he
decided to abandon her. He came up
close to a large floating target, on to
which he stepped ; but before the rest of
the crew could get clear, X 7 gurgled
under. Only one sub-lieutenant was able
to get out, using Davis escape apparatus.
He and Place were taken aboard Tirpitz.
Meanwhile, Cameron and his lot were
being closely questioned by officers
from the Admiral’s staff. But they hadn’t
come a thousand miles to give their
doings away, and the only indication of
what was coming was their somewhat
nervous looking at their watches as the
minute-hands passed ten-past-eight.
Tirpitz’s length was shaking under the
pound of her capstans going flat-out to
haul her clear to starb’d, Cameron took
a final look at his watch and grabbed the
nearest stanchion. The Germans watched
in what naturally approached panic.
Then, deep under her belly, eight tons of
high explosive expended its pent-up
energy in a frightful blast that punched
her thousands of tons bodily five-feet out
of the water and hurled a vast rampart
of water high above her masts.
Men on the upper-deck were flung
sky-high. When the great ship fell back
all three main engines were jolted out of
action, and within a few minutes she had
three hundred tons of water inside her.
“A” and “C” turrets were lifted by the
blast, clean out of alignment, as were all
a.-a. control-positions. Several important
compartments were flooded, including
generator- and dynamo-rooms, as well as
No. 2 rudder-compartment. The port
rudder installation was put completely
out of action. One man was killed, ana
forty wounded, among them the nrst-
lieutenant. ,
And when the Germans had recovered
from their fright, both British crews were
plied with hot coffee and schnapps, as
well as generous acknowledgments oi
their bravery.
The real effect of those modern
Davids on Goliath was to come in Apr' l '
1944, when Tirpitz, temporarily P atc ," e ’
moved from her anchorage for a sO V-* he L
dockyard. Here she was hit with blocx-
busters and capsized by the waiti g
R.A.F., from whose attacks in KaatJ
she had been virtually immune.,
FLIN WITH FINNIGA
by WILL LAWSON
PHELIM FINNIGAN came from
Ireland; you could tell that at a
glance, before he opened his mouth,
and when you heard him sing his
nationality was established for all time.
Yet if he was asked whether he would
like to go back to Ireland, he would
shake his head. And if you persisted in
asking why he wouldn’t like to go back,
he would say,
“Arrah, it’s thim dam’ ships ye must
go in.”
“What’s wrong with the ships?” you
might ask, and Phelim would say, “No-
thin's wrong wid the ships. But consider
the dipth below you all the way.”
Then he would hum a song, the “Song
of the Boilin’ Water,” he called it —to
annoy someone near by; but if he was
challenged, he would say, “Sure, I’m just
hummin’ a bit of a ditty, I am.”
E VER since he came to Australia
Phelim had owned and driven a horse
and tip-dray. Most of his time he worked
for old Jack Duggan, sinking dams,
making railway embankments and so on;
his mare Maggie knew the job as well as
Phelim did. Yet they would have mis-
haps at times. And one week was a bad
week in this way,
Phelim was hauling spoil for a big
embankment and had to back his wheels
against a plank laid on the edge of the
bank, then tip his load down the steep
slope. Maggie knew the ritual as well
as Phelim. But one day the plank gave
a bit and suddenly Phelim yelled, “Save
us, bhoys; she’s goin’ over.”
The men near by ran and grabbed the
wheels, while Phelim unharnessed Maggie
and took her out of the shafts. They
tried to lug the dray back, but it was too
heavy, so one of them, Mick Hagen,
said, “Best let her go and pick her up
at the bottom, Phil.”
So they let her go, while Maggie shook
herself, glad to be out of the shafts.
But suddenly Maggie spun round and
shot over the edge after the dray, to
the amazed horror of all hands, who took
some time to realise that Phelim had
forgotten to undo the reins, which were
fast to the front-rail of the dray. Away
went Maggie down the slope, still keep-
ing her feet, to land alongside the dray
at the foot of the slope. Phelim took
an easier grade to go and get them.
After that episode Phelim did away
with reins. He had a short piece of light
rope with which he led Maggie in her
work. Phil’s bit of string, the men called
it, but Phelim said it was far better than
all your reins, for it wasn’t fastened to
anything but Maggie. With it he would
pull Maggie’s head round when they had
to tip the load, then shove her back
against the plank.
BUT Phelim got careless and one day
as he swung his load to get into a
position to back against,the plank his
off-wheel went into soft earth —he was too
near the edge. And the next moment
there were the dray and Maggie rolling
over and over, down the bank. How
everyone laughed, for they knew the
earth was too soft to hurt the mare. And
they laughed louder when they saw
Phelim standing there with a puzzled
look in his face and the bit of light rope
in his hand.
“What happened?” Micky asked him,
and he said, in a quiet, puzzled way,
“Sure, the string broke, it did.”
There was much more skill used with
the old drays than ever is used with the
big trucks today. They were small
things, those drays, but they were useful
in a way you wouldn’t understand now
even if they only carried half a ton or
less. They could go into strange places.
For instance one day, driving for a
short distance along the main road,
Phelim went to sleep in the heat and
Maggie joined in a funeral procession
which was passing at the time. None of
the mourners thought to stop her or
wonder why Phelim’s head was so bowed
with grief, when all that was the matter
with him was that he had fallen asleep.
The dray being empty, Maggie would
have gone on for ever, but she had to
stop when the funeral did at the grave-
side. The priest came along and woke
Phelim, and directed him back to his job.
where he was received with yells of
laughter, for the men had seen Maggie
take the wrong turning.
“Time enough, Phil,” they , said, “when
yer time comes.”
1 T happened one St. Patrick’s Day that
A the men, including Phelim, gathered in
the Irish Harp in Golgong and drank
many beers to the glory of Old Oireland
Phelim was with them, and his dray,
with Maggie in the shafts, stood outside
waiting for him when he would deign to
drive them home.
For a long time they waited ; in fact, it
is possible that Phelim had forgotten all
about them, till Rosey the barmaid came
to him and said “Something very funny
has happened, Phelim, to your horse and
dray.”
“My what?” he said, startled out of
a lethargy which was beginning to get
hold of him.
“Yer horse and dray. Something very
strange has happened to them.”
He was out of the bar in a jiffy and
around to where he had left Maggie an
hour before, standing there in the road-
way, with the dray behind her. And
now look at her!
There she stood across the footpath,
with her stem to the paling-fence of the
hotel yard. She was still in the shafts,
but the dray was inside the yard.
Phelim stood and stared, his mind all
bewildered at what he saw.
“What the divil?” he said, and Tim
Lacey who stood by said, “What’s the
matter, Phil?”
“Am Oi drunk or blind or mad?”
Phelim demanded.
“Not that I can notice,” Tim said.
“You look all right, anyway. What’s
worrying ye?”
“Look —look at. Maggie there, wid the,
dray on the other side of the fince. How
the divil did she do that?”
TIM pretended to observe the strange
phenomenon for the first time,
“Well, I’ll be darned,” he said. “How
did she get that way?”
“It’s the divil’s work, indade,” Phelim
said. “No mare could shove a dray
through a fince like that.”
“You’re right,” Tim said. “Maybe
Maggie got through from the inside and
the dray got stuck.”
“There ain’t a hole in the fince big
enough for me mare to get through—
rollin’ fat as she is.” He scratched his
head for the tenth time, then said “This
is a matter for the police to settle, I
can’t go tearing down Dan Rogan’s back
fince without authority. I’ll get the
p’lice,”
And away he went to the police-station,
where he had to answer many questions
before the fat sergeant would bestir him-
self to listen, for the young constable was
away after a tramp who had been given
a feed and ordered to cut half a cord of
wood, and he hadn’t cut the wood, and
moreover he had stolen the axe and sold
it to Billy Mason the storekeeper on his
way out of the town. So the sergeant
wasn’t in a mood to discuss cock-and-bull
stories like that which Phelim had
brought to him for solution.
“But I tell ye,” Phelim said for the
tenth time, “I tell ye there’s Maggie me
mare standing out on the footpath, and
there’s me dray inside the pub yard.”
The sergeant yawned. Phelim obvi-
ously must be drunk.
“It’s a job for the little green men,
Phelim,” he said. “You get them to settle
yer argument with yer horse and dray,”
SO back Phelim went to the hotel and
his troubles, and there in the road-
way stood Maggie and his dray, just
where he had left them when he went in
to the bar to drink to St. Patrick.
He walked found his turnout, touched
Maggie, who whinnied asking to be taken
home and fed. The fence looked all
right; so did the dray.
A very puzzled man, Phelim went into
the bar, to seek Tim Lacey, who had seen
what he had seen before he went for the
police. Tim was not there, neither was
Rosey; and do you think he could per-
suade anyone in that bar that what he
said he had seen actually happened?
They just roared with laughter, till in
despair Phelim left them and got up on
the shaft of his dray and drove Maggie
home, humming one of his ditties as he
went. And this time, in honor of the
day, it was “The Wearin’ of the Green.”


m
VC
flying!
Time
too
is
When you have to count the minutes,,
rely on BP Aviation Service. At airports
all over the world —including those of
Melbourne and Sydney —it gets you on
your way in the shortest possible time.
Qantas Empire Airways. Trans-
Australia Air Lines and many other
national airlines are regularly fuelled by
this great Service, which has behindjtthe
global resources and reputation of the
m
Anglo-lranian Oil Company. Ltth
SERVICE
COMMOMVEAT.T H Oil. BEFINJCMES
Tele graphic Address “AXKBEEPBE Melbourne.
073/0512
anti
wai*
/
Halit
gfooO
linos*
0
Wint£M
/
'/J
7
V'
A
7
yy
001
G
SI
'//
i
Z
n
d
7
8.1. Slagwoool is the modern insulating material
which proofs the whole building against extremes
in temperature.
8.1. Slagwool is easily applied to new or old struc-
tures. Live in absolute comfort Winter and Sum-
mer; line your home with 8.1. Slagwool and save
on fuel costs too.
For full particular * call, write or phone ...
oil e
8.1.C21
b wdol
3*
)# ' / . •
Insulation
Phones: SYDNEY. 8X5584; MELBOURNE, MU 3506
BRISBANE 83604; 8.1. (S.A.) LTD. ADELAIDE
Cen. 7257; 8.1. (W.A.) LTD, PERTH L 2107
PEACE TO DICKIE BUCKLE
By J.H.MELVILLE
MR. AND MRS. PINSER
were on their way to
church. Somewhere be-
hand silver birches held
in bleary suspension between
wind and frost, a bell that
would speed their Sunday-even-
ing excursion to a jog-trot was
tinkling busily. But the Pinsers
paid no heed to its fussing, and
were passing the park on their
stately way when Mrs. Pinser
swung impulsively into the hedge
—challenging and puzzled—and
breasted it as only a woman of
her build could.
“Oh, it’s Mrs. Buckle,” she
cried, making this identification
with evident relief.
“Eh?”
“There in the park, George,
on the*cannon.”
Her husband faced round,
stiffly and erect, making his long
black coat a constricting sheath.
“Aha,” he said.
The cannon was an old
German field-gun which had
changed in symbolism from
triumph to reproach, and been
shunted off to that overgrown
corner of the park. On its
wooden seat a woman sat knit-
ting.
“Good evening, Mr. Pinser,”
she said, looking up with a sad
sweet smile, “and Mrs. Pinser.”
“You gave us quite a start,
you know, Mrs. Buckle,” the
woman outside chided gently.
“Just for a moment.”
“Aha,” said her husband.
“We were so used to finding
Mr. Buckle sitting there,” Mrs.
Pinser went on to explain.
The woman on the gun-seat
nodded wretchedly.
Dickie Buckle, her husband,
had been dead only a fortnight.
“He used to say it was so
peaceful here, sitting on the
cannon and listening to the
church-bells,” she said.
Her peevish sing-song voice
was girlish, and though she was
somewhere about middle-age,
immaturity was suggested also
by the pinkness of her dimpled
cheeks. Her smile was strained
and cloying sweet.
“Never missed speaking to
him for years,” the man at the
hedge declared amiably.
“Except when the weather was
hopeless. Winter and all, we
knew he’d .be there. ‘Good
evening,’ we’d say. Sometimes
before we were round the
corner. Our little joke, you
know.” He chuckled at the re-
collection —a solicitor’s guarded
chuckle. “That’s how sure we
were that we’d find him here.
‘Good evening,’ he’d say.”
Mr. Pinser, of the legal firm
of Pinser and Moray, lingered
over the final words as if finding
the man’s widow here in his
place gave them new interest.
“And always such a pleasant
way he had of saying it,” said
Mrs. Pinser. “Good evening,”
she mimicked, dropping her
voice, and giving at the same
time a slight bow of respect.
'THE woman on the gun
1 shook the dead leaves off a
scrap of knitting and held it up.
“It was to have been for him,
; she said. “A jersey.”
“And now he’s gone.” Mrs.
Pinser .spread her hands
elegantly along the hedge. ‘lt
comes to us all, Mrs. Buckle,”
“Sooner or late,” her husband
added, sharing this prospect
quite agreeably. “And as for
us old soldiers” ——
“Oh, he wasn’t a soldier,”
Dickie Buckle’s widow cor-
rected, still holding up her knit-
ting pathetically.
“No?” queried Mr. Pinser.
“Goodness, I thought seeing him
on the old gun so regularly that
there must have been some senti-
ment or other. The sort of thing
you wouldn’t ask about, of
course.”
“He always wore khaki; per-
haps that’s why you thought
that,” suggested Mrs. Buckle.
“He used to say that a carrier
gets all sorts of queer things to
handle and you want clothes
that will stand up to hard wear,
and when you’re meeting people
all day you want to be sort of
tidy, too, and he said that khaki
was six of one and half a dozen
of the other. That’s why he
wore it-—not because he was a
soldier.”
“Goodness,” chuckled Mr.
Pinser.
His wife, too, was smiling. *
The woman inside the park
was not sure whether they were
amused by Mr. Pinser’s ignor-
ance or her own. She felt some-
what piqued. What a pity they
hadn’t been so pleasant the
weekend Dickie had forgotten
to bring the timber for their sun-
porch out from town, she
thought. Not that he’d forgotten
exactly, either, but if she’d
waited any longer with him at
the miller’s she might have
missed her chance altogether of
getting the wine coat she’d
spotted in the window, and so
she’d made him drive her to the
shop and leave Pinser’s timber.
She knew which was more im-
portant, the wine coat or a load
of wood. And Mr. Pinser com-
plaining that his arrangements
had been upset, and throwing
out hints about knowing a man
who had been ruined in busi-
ness because his wife had always
interfered in his affairs and been
jealous of him —more likely Mrs.
Pinser was jealous of the wine
coat. That dingy thing she was
wearing didn’t look much, any-
way.
“How I do jump to conclu-
sions,” Mr. Pinser said, sacri-
ficing himself as the butt of their
amusement.
WITH the couple at the
hedge, she was bidding
good evening to occasional
passers-by. „
“You were with him so much,
Mrs. Pinser sympathised.
“Nearly every day he was out
with the truck I went with him,”
she said. She spoke half-
defiantly. If she hadn’t the right
to go round with her own
husband, who had? And if
Mrs. Pinser was another one
who had the idea that she had
neglected Dickie and been with
him too much at the same time,
perhaps she’d tell her how that
could make sense. As if in reply
to an implied charge, she
stretched out the piece of knit-
ting appraisingly. “I was mak-
ing it to keep him warm in the
winter - time,” she said. “I
couldn’t get the shade of red 1
wanted. But it won’t matter
now.” She stuffed the knitting
into her bag. “I tried five dif-
ferent shops but this was the
best I could get. He said it was
a bit bright, and I told him that
the shade I nearly brought home
would have made him look like
a walking pillar-box.” This sally
delighted her again, and she was
giggling as she finished speaking.
Such accommodating grief
seemed to irritate Mr. Pinser.
“You’ll miss him,” he said.
“Oh, yes.” Mrs. Buckle was
suddenly bereft again. “It’s
awful at home now. Things
just get too much for' me. The
truck’s in the garage all the time,
and I don’t get out like I used
to. And I just don’t know what
to do being stuck at home all
the time. It gets on my nerves.”
“And you feel closer to him
in spirit, sitting here where he
sat?” asked the woman at the
hedge, mingling tender under-
standing and incredulity.
Mrs. Buckle nodded. “He
always said it was so peaceful
here when the bells were ring-
ing.”
A CRACKLING of under-
growth drew her attention
to a stoutish man of rather un-
kempt appearance, a rose in the
buttonhole of his well-worn
coat, who had come to the edge
of the tiny clearing to stand for
a moment and stare. He was
Bob Woodersen, one of the
angling cronies who had some-
times come to yarn with Dickie
Buckle round the old gun. Per-
haps he had been attracted by
hearing Mr. Pinser’s voice. But
seeing only Mrs. Buckle there
on the gun-seal, he nodded a
grudging acknowledgment, and
in the speed and determination
of his disappearance there was
plain disgust.
“It is such a peaceful hour,”
Mrs. Pinser was saying.
“Twilight, and everything so
calm.” She spoke with a touch
of propriety, offering all this as
a personal tribute. “Just the
time for meditation.”
“I came here to find peace,”
the widow on the gun-seat said.
“He always did. He always
found peace here.” •
Her claim was naive and
petulant. Peace, it seemed, was
a blessing to fall round her like
the dead leaves. The peace
Dickie Buckle had found was
hers to take ; something more
to covet, another self-indulgence,
another craving perversely sweet.
Not for a moment did she
think that peace to Dickie
Buckle meant freedom from
her chattering and her foolish
childish possessiveness.
Mr. Pinser answered her
glibly. “Tm sure you’ll be com-
forted, Mrs. Buckle.”
“Just you put everything out
of your mind,” the woman at
the hedge counselled. “And we
really mustn’t keep you from
your thoughts for another
minute.”
With this happy contradiction
the couple outside smiled a
sympathetic good - evening and
moved sedately away.
MRS. BUCKLE was alone.
Peace of mind was within
reach. Seated hopefully on the
gun-seat, she stared up into the
trees and waited.
But though she sought relaxa-
tion, the harder she tried the
stronger grew a suspicion of Mr.
Woodersen spying at her
through the trees until this
thought obtruded as an impos-
sible distraction.
She gave way to a peevish
hatred of Bob Woodersen. He
was doing this deliberately. He
didn’t want her to find peace and
be comforted. Always he was
spoiling things for her. He
didn’t want her to be comforted
any more than he’d wanted her
to enjoy herself when she’d gone
on those weekend fishing trips.
She should have stayed at home
while he and Dickie and the rest
enjoyed themselves —that’s what
he thought. But it was in
Dickie’s truck that they wenf,
so if she hadn’t a right to go
she’d like to know who had.
It was he, too, who growled
o Continued on next page)


&
NOW LETS WAVE
A S-AGH6S
W
&
*
s>
► ►
\ a
\^i*y
When you call for Brandy
make sure you say
SuaGRtS
BRANDY
{‘THE EMPIRE CHAMPIOHr
OA-ll
Distilled ond Bottled by ANGOVES LTD., Soutii^Austrolia
The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
aid States.
How to reduce
dental decay at
no cost!
Three years ago the Dental
School at Northwestern Univer-
sity, U.S.A. launched one of the
most extensive experiments in
dental history. Results Indicate:
Too decay can be
reduced 50 to 60 per
cent, by the simple pro-
cess of brushing or rins-
ing the teeth right after
eating.
So says Charles W. Freeman,
D.D.S., Dean of Northwestern
University’s Dental School, in
August Reader’s Digest.
Get your Reader's Digest
today. 31 articles of lasting
interest, condensed from leading
magazines, current books. One
shilling and sixpence. All news-
agents and bookstalls.
4% J^ALI-BiUTISH
foiWfllj
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR i
WRITING i
%
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
Wll.ll LMV q
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conwoy Stewart fir Co. Lt •/
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne ond Sydney
the most when she made Dickie
go to the prettiest spots along
the river instead of some dirty
old hole which Mr. Woodersen
was always picking out. And it
was he who set the others
against her, too ; she was sure
of that. But he was always
keen enough to get her to do
the cooking and washing-up
while they were staying up at
the huts —that was the least she
could do, he’d say, seeing that
she and Dickie took a whole hut
to themselves while the rest of
the men were cramped in the
other. But she wasn’t as soft as
that, and she’d told Dickie she
wasn’t going to be a slavey for
Mr. Woodersen. Especially after
the way he was always picking
on her for something.
Gosh, wasn’t it awful when
you couldn’t move along the
bank or cool your feet in the
water without getting growled
at! Trout and perch and eels—
that was all he could think
qb°ut. She’d tried to make it
up with him, too, by trimming
up the flies in his fly-book as a
surprise, but it was her that got
the surprise when she heard how
he carried on. You’d have
thought Greenwell’s Glory was
some sort of precious jewel. -All
her life she’d remember one of
the horrid things he’d said;
“Don’t blame poor old Dickie,”
he’d said. “He gets a gutsful of
it all the week,” He didn’t want
her to enjoy herself, that’s what
it had been; he and Dickie and
the rest could enjoy themselves,
but she couldn’t.
And what would he be think-
ing if he was spying on her now?
He’d be thinking she had no
right there. It would be no use
trying to explain to him how
lonely and upset she felt. He’d
think that peace of mind be-
longed to Dickie and anglers and
everybody else but her, that’s
what he’d be thinking.
HER meditation, such as it
was, was suddenly inter-
rupted by a shout of “Jump!”
and a crack like a revolver-shot
coming through the trees. Then
it sounded again.
She had little time for
wonderment before a man came
into the open leading a little girl.
He was stooped and burly and
wore a blue suit of old-fashioned
cut most uncomfortably. His
face had a gummy look as if the
weight of his broad forehead
had caused a subsidence. The.
child, also of sturdy build, was
dressed kiltie style. They were
making for the corner of the
hedge.
Mrs. Buckle crouched back as
incoqspicuously as she could.
But the child spotted her.
“Granddad,” she observed
pertly, “there’s a lady sitting on
the cannon.”
“Goodness me! ” exclaimed
her grandfather, checking him-
self creditably. “Mrs. Buckle.”
“Good evening, Mr. Wakeley,”
she said, making the best of it.
"No, no, Parnela! You retain a firm grip of the bow—not the arrow."
He stood back surveying her,
his jaws working. “Mrs. Buckle,”
he said again. “I was sorry
about Dickie. Unexpected,
wasn’t it?”
She nodded miserably, “They
were giving him wonder drugs.”
Mr. Wakeley pushed his chin
up under his nose and then let
it fall loose. “They’re getting
a bit ahead of themselves these
days,” he told her authoritatively.
“Mrs. Pinser passed a little
while ago and she thought I was
him,” said the woman on the
gun. “He used to sit here.”
“Yes, yes, I know,” he said.
“I used to see him most every
Sunday night. I take a short-
cut through the park on my way
to ring the bell. And I’d see
him and Norm Dale and old
Bob Woodersen telling lies about
the fish that got away. But I’d
never have taken you for Dickie,
poor light or not. For one thing,
his legs were long enough to
reach the ground.”
While Mr. Wakeley was mak-
ing a ceremony of raising his
hat to a couple passing outside
the hedge Mrs. Buckle was feel-
ing furtively for the ground with
her short legs.
“ ‘Watch that gun doesn’t go
off and shoot somebody, Dickie,’
I’d say to him,” Mr. Wakeley
went on. He gave a disillu-
sioned little cough of a laugh
which apparently expressed great
amusement, for his grand-
daughter squealed delightedly.
“He was always fiddling with
that pointer gadget like he was
itching to fire the old cannon off.
’Course, Dickie was always
fiddling or fidgeting with some-
thing,” he commented. “No, I’d
never have taken you for him.”
He concentrated for a while, and
then indicated by a series of nods
that he’d found the answer to
what puzzled him. “You’d hear
us coming through the bushes?”
he asked.
“Yes.”
“Well,” he said, “that’s the
difference. Dickie wouldn’t have
sat here and waited; he’d have
been in there to see what "was
going on. That’s another reason
I knew you weren’t Dickie.”
HE sidled towards the woman,
a drifting movement it was
evidently meant to be, so imper-
ceptible that the child would be
misled.
“I got good reason for know-
ing Dickie wouldn’t be sitting on
the cannon tonight,” he said
softly. “As good reason as any-
body.”
He made this observation
solemnly. Gravedigging was one
of his varied jobs, and he spoke
as a martyr to civic duty, though
not without a shade of pride.
Dickie Buckle’s widow shrank
back at this grim allusion. The
child was close behind him,
listening agape.
“He used to sit here and
listen to the bells,” said Mrs.
Buckle. “He always said it was
so peaceful.”
“Well, I gave him his money’s
worth when I got going on the
Presbyterians’ bell,” boasted Mr.
Wakeley. “Not like that tinny
thing you’re listening to now.”
The tinkling bell was part of
her pattern for peace—Dickie
had listened to it —and she was
thus bound to uphold it.
“I quite like the way Mr.
Jackaway is ringing it,” she said.
“I think it’s got a sweet tone.”
“You think so?” He stood
back, champing and regarding
her patronisingly, “Laura, here,
could do as good,” he scoffed.
“Keep it going better, too.” He
came forward confidingly,
“Laura’s got the power in her
thighs, that’s why, Mrs. Buckle.
And that’s what counts most.”
“Oh.”
“If you saw her jump you’d
know,” he said. Then, as if it
were a fleeting thought unex-
pectedly caught, he added “We’ll
put her at that seat back there.”
The woman on the old gun
protested wanly; “I don’t want
to see her jump tonight.”
His presumption was outrag-
ing her grief. She wanted only
to be left alone with the bells
ringing.
“No need to shift,” Mr.
Wakeley assured her. “I’ll bring
the seat along.” He smiled
sagely. “You might think I was
just talking because I’m her
granddad.” The child moved to
accompany him, but he sent her
back. “You stay there, Laura.”
A moment later he was out of
sight among the trees.
T'HE little girl in the kiltie
1 outfit shrugged coyly to-
wards Mrs. Buckle, who was try-
ing hard to ignore her without
losing dignity.
Encouraged perhaps by the
sweet meaningless smile that was
still on the woman’s lips, little
Laura ventured “He gave me a
hiding last night.”
Though she sensed that to talk
with the child would distract her
further from the receptive mood
she courted, Mrs. Buckle heard
herself ask “Who did?”
Later, when she was alone,
she would try again for peace.
“Granddad did.”
“Why?”
They could hear the sound of
Mr. Wakeley returning.
The child giggled, shyly reti-
cent. “Granddad gave me a hid-
ing last Saturday night, too.”
“What’s this about Grand
dad?” Mr. Wakeley asked, put ;
ting down the seat a few yards
away.
“Ooh! ” The child held her
fist at her mouth.
“She says you gave her a hid-
ing,” the woman on the gun-seat
said.
Mr. Wakeley was overturning
the park seat and setting it up
as a hurdle. “She got it last
night,” he said. “She got it for
not having good manners.”
Little Laura nudged into the
widow and related quickly be-
fore her grandfather could rob
her of the triumph: “I was in
the bath and I had a cold and I
didn’t have a hanky, so I used
the towel.”
Her grandfather, who at this
stood back regarding her with
ruminating gravity, shook his
head. “You wouldn’t have
caught Mrs. Buckle doing a
thing like that when she was a
little girl,” he said.
Mrs. Buckle laughed. A lost
reckless laugh it was. The child
was giggling up into her face
and breathing peppermint fumes.
She was recalling the sensation
she had once felt of floating
round the ceiling of a dentist’s
surgery. But now, instead of
seeing herself in the chair, un-
conscious while the dentist
worked over her, she was watch-
ing Laura skip back from the
overturned seat. Alongside this
hurdle Mr. Wakeley was
crouched.
“Jump!” he barked.
The child came at the seat and
cleared it easily. At the same
instant her grandfather’s hands
cracked together like two slats'
of wood. Whether for show or
not, she jumped with a twist so
that her plaits flew over her
shoulder. Recovering quickly,
she dashed back to her starting-
point.
“Again! ” her grandfather
barked. “Jump!”
Again she jumped well, and
her grandfather’s handclap ex-
ploded in salute. This time she
stood stock-still at the point
where she landed, evidently all
part of a set routine.
“You see, Mrs. Buckle,” Mr.
Wakeley boasted, “it’s the power
C Continued on page 32.)


BRANDTS famous TILLEY
STORM LANTERN
ill!
I
I
jfe;
£
Candle
Power
Here’s a safe, reliable Lamp to
give yon brilliant illumination
anywhere, under all conditions.
It has heat-resisting Glass, is
stormproof, and is solidly
made in Brass metal.
Economical and easy to ope-
rate, this famous British
KEROSENE Pressure - type
Lamp is moderately priced at
86 1-
CAMPING APPLIANCES.
Brandts stock pressure-pattern
Stoves, Hurricane Lamps, Wick
Stoves, etc. All spare parts
supplied. .
Mail orders by return mail.
ADD FREIGHT.
300
BRANDTS PTY. LTD.
APPLIANCE
SPECIALISTS-
SINCE 1878
371 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
'Phone
Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce,
TO ARTHUR JAMES LOGAN (also known
as Arthur Janies Dixon Ohater). —TAKE
NOTICE that IRIS LIMA LOGAN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2307 of
1950 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the' Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Thirtieth day of October 1950 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. ALLAN OTHER & DAVIS,
Solicitors, at 350 George Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO EUNICE PENZIG late of Randwick.
—TAKE NOTICE that EDGAR PENZIG
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2175
of 1950 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upward 4 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 23rd October 1950 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. WARRINGTON CON-
NOLLY & CO., Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, of 12 O’Connell Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO JOHN ROY EASTON late of Lid-
combe.—TAKE NOTICE that NORAH
EASTON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 8269 of 1949 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause for three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney on or before the 30/10/’5O
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from GEOFFREY DYSON
BONAMY, Solicitor, of 56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TILLEY. LAMPS
HAVE YOU TRIED THE
“HAPPY" MANTLE?
THESE ENTIRELY NEW AND PATENTED
GENUINE “TILLEY”’ MANTLES WILL SURPRISE
AND DELIGHT YOU
NO MORE FIDDLING
WHEN FITTING!!
ADEQUATE STOCKS ARE NOW AVAILABLE
AT YOUR LOCAL DEALERS.
IF IN ANY DIFFICULTY, WRITE TO OUR
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:—
I
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
ONLY
“ HAPPY ”
BEAR
TilltfiElYfe LAMPS
H
■■
1
REGD.
GENUINE
MANTLES
THIS SEAL!
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD. OF ENGLAND
SUNDRY SHOWS
Russell Drysdale.
Even in the days when one
liked it least, Russell Drysdale’s
art was always different from
anybody else’s art in Australia,
and now, showing at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries, it is differ-
ent even from Drysdale’s: it has
a new grace and lightness of
touch, and in its gaiety and sar-
donic incisiveness it makes one
think of a short story by Henry
Lawson.
Such delightful pictures as
“Children Dancing,” “Rocky
Plains,” “Wallaby Hunt” and
“War Memorial” are, indeed, a
natural development from Drys-
dale’s earlier struggles to paint
the outback, but one could
hardly have expected that the
elongated American hillbillies
of so many of the first attempts
would change to figures so un-
mistakably and authentically
Australian, that the cumbrous
gloom of “The Drover’s Wife”
would give way to the lyricism
of his children dancing in the
hot, gold, empty wilderness, or
that the decay and despair of
his dead gum-trees and rotten
stumps would be replaced by
the excitement of his anthills or
rocks —whichever they are—
marching so dramatically across
the rocky plains.
Drysdale’s art remains limited
in scope. As a landscapist he
has one subject: the hot empti-
ness of the outback township or
desert. It gets him more than
his share of publicity, for desert
paintings—as a reaction from
Gruner and Streeton; though
nobody ever painted hotter
earth than in “Fire’s On” or
more dramatic scenes of out-
back life than Tom Roberts
or Lambert —are fashionable
amongst the intelligentsia. But
that should not prevent one from
realising that his single theme is
very well painted indeed.
As pure landscape it is not
wholly satisfying. Using a tech-
nique of thin paint surprisingly
like that of Conrad Martens and
almost as if the Impressionists
had never existed, Drysdale finds
it hard to reproduce the texture
of Australian earth and the bril-
liance of Australian light. He
paints a kind of symbol of these
things in hot color.
But it is certainly a dramatic
symbol; and, in any case, Drys-
dale is, finally, more concerned
with life than with landscape in
these pictures. He is emerging
as a painter of genre —of the
drama and comedy of man’s
struggle against nature —and
that is where he is carving out
for himself a distinctive place in
contemporary Australian paint-
ing.
“Mother and Child, North
Queensland,” is full of human
warmth, and the Greek store-
keeper “Joe,” waiting over an
outspread newspaper for custo-
mers who never arrive, is, for
all his lugubriousness, rich with
sardonic comedy. And it has
taken a very lively, as well as a
profoundly sympathetic, imagi-
nation to set up the soldier of
“War Memorial” —the average
small-town monument against
Drysdale’s immense hot dis-
tances^ —as a symbol at once
pathetic and heroic.
The pictures form part of an
exhibition which the artist is
sending to London later this
year.
Leonard Long.
Leonard Long, a comparative
newcomer whose landscapes are
at Sydney Grosvenor Galleries,
has qualities which could make
him either a popular painter of
pleasant, “literal,” rather super-
ficial scenes or an artist of
genuine depth and weight. Which
he will turn out in the end one
declines to prophesy: possibly,
like Robert Johnson and James
R. Jackson, he will be both by
turns. Certainly he will take a
prominent place.
His larger pictures, which in-
clude some courageous and
attractive adventures with steep
hills and mountain scenery,
usually start off poorly in the
foreground, get a nice feeling of
earth and height in the middle
distance and finish off splendidly
in the skies, which he handles
remarkably well. The smallest
pictures such as “Glen
Murray” with its rich evening
sky over the massive sim-
plicity of a mountain ridge,
“Katoomba Skyline” with a
rocky depth and a welcome ab-
sence of tourist blues, and
“Lagoon” with another fine sky
over compact and intimately-
observed earth and water —keep
their soli4 quality all the way
through.
Namatjira.
The first time Albert Namat-
jira held a show at Anthony
Hordern’s Gallery, Sydney, every
picture except one was sold by
five o’clock on the opening day
—what was wrong with the un-
sold specimen history does not
say. Possibly the same thing
has. happened with his current
exhibition at the same gallery,
for when The Bulletin went
along before the opening it war
informed that five people from
Alice Springs were contesting to
buy one of the watercolors.
This was “Gattapatta, Western
James Range,” full of yellow
grass, red rocks Namatjira’s
opalescent blue hills, and proved
that they must have pretty good
taste up in those remote parts.
As a whole, the show looks a bit
thin for Namatjira—more like
the work, of his followers —but
“Pallanginya,” “Amphitheatre,
Palm Valley,” “Love’s Creek,”
“Areyonga Aboriginal Station,”
“Areyonga Catchment” and
“Ghost Gum and Mereemi
Range” are up to' his highest
standard, sensitive in feeling,
dramatic in their subject-matter
and lovely in color. The latest
news of Namatjira, incidentally,
is that while all our seaside
artists have gone to the centre
to paint the desert he has gone
to Darwin to paint the sea.
William Warfield.
The American negro baritone
began his Sydney season with a
concert which covered a range
that has not been approached
here in both its beauty and its
complexities in decades. War-
field is not only a singer; he is
a researcher of song of the
highest ability.
To the interpretation of these
varied songs he brought a voice
of flawless quality, deep, rich
and resonant, and an unerring
sense of the fitness of things
vocal. In pianissimo passages in
th* low register, where his voice
takes on the true basso quality,
he endows his singing with a
caressing tendency. His produc-
tion is of that effortless nature
that is a joy to behold, his dic-
tion should bring students flock-
v ing to get a lesson from a master
in a phase of the art of song
that is as important as the rise
and fall of the voice itself, but
above all these is the supreme
artistry with which he adapts
the many-faceted characteristics
of his voice to the particular
song on which he is engaged.
He started with Schutz’s
“Hurry, Lord, to Save Me,” in
which the restraint of dramatic
power was beautifully judged.
The declamatory passages in
Monteverdi’s 150th Psalm, sung
with fine devotional fervor and
swelling into splendid propor-
tions, were worthy of nothing
less than a cathedral setting, for
he built it into a veritable
cathedral of song. There was
something uncannily medieval in
his singing, without benefit of
piano, of a 13th-century chant
by Perotin Le Grand.
In lieder Warfield proved
equally authoritative. His
“Wohin” skimmed along the
brook on tripping tongue and
with feather-light touch. “The
Gravedigger’s Longing,” one of
Schubert’s most profound and
moving songs, brought out some
of the most inspired singing of
the night. A group of three
songs by Loewe, a contemporary
of Schubert whose ..works could
be aired more often with profit,
was an admirable blending of
grave and gay, the first one
being taken at breath-taking
pace with the enunciation still
intact.
The nine songs which com-
prise Op. 61 of Gabriel Faure
were made exquisite cameos.
Spirituals wound up the
scheduled programme, these sung
as to the manner born.
At his second recital the bari-
tone gave the greatest exposi-
tion of Handelian oratorio that
has been heard in Sydney for
quarter of a century—indeed, it
is doubtful if any living voice
could have bettered it. The
heroic style inherent in “Honor
and Arms” from “Samson” was
given full play, and Warfield’s
magnificent physique and his
frown added conviction to his
full-powered declaration: “And
I could end thee at a blow!”
From the same oratorio was
“Thy Glorious Deeds Inspired
My Tongue,” a noble statement
nobly stated. In striking con-
trast to these full-blooded airs;
“Oh, Sleep, Why Dost Thou
Leave Me?” from the same
composer’s “Semele” was a
vocal sedative ; the legato sing-
ing on the half-voice was just
about artistic perfection.


J MUSTS
IN
EVERV
home
Here are three B.G.E. Electric Home Helps—the most faithful,
hard-working servants you'll find anywhere. Quiet, efficient,
good-looking, these are three servants you Just can't do
without
3i.S&
toaster
Hot, crisp, golden toast in next
to no time! The B.G.E. Electric
Toaster, finished in easy-to-clean
chromium, turns the bread automatically when the
doors are opened. £2/15/-
1
eiectwc radiator
£3/16/-
Cheerful warmth with this distinctively
designed R.G.E. Portable Radiator.
Available in attractive colour range of
Bronze, Cream and Green—l,ooo
watts element. Other models available.
strea^*^
&Q.& IRON
With a heavy chromium finish
and comfortable bakelita
handle, the B.G.E. Electric Streamlined Iron Is safe, durable
and smooth-working. £ 2/16/-
Make housework light work with
ELECTRIC
HOME HELPS
3i.9£.
Available from leading Electrical dealers.
SemtofS&cfac Cc.^u.j^.
(Sole Australian Representatives of ~
The General Electric Company Ltd. of England)
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE, PERTH, HOBART, LAUNCESTON. TOWNSVILLE
f
PLAN YOUR ESTATE
for your family’s
PROTECTION
In these days of changing values and high death
duties you will ensure better protection for your
dependents by;
1. Careful planning before your Will is drawn.
2. Providing for the careful management of
your Estate in the best interests of your
dependents, after your guiding hand is with-
drawn.
You are invited to
call and discuss your
Estate problems with
a senior officer of
Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
The Company has wide
experience in the manage-
ment of Estates of many
different kinds and sizes.
Because its service is per-
petual it may be depended
upon to provide alert,
efficient management in
the best interests of your
dependents, when required.
If unable to call, write
for a copy of the booklet,
“Your Executor and
T rustee”, that describes
the services offered by the
Company, and its charges.
DIBECTOBS;
Hon. T. A. J.' PLAYPAIB, M.L.C.
(Chairman) ;
B. B. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P, ABBOTT; ,
D. B. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HOBDEBN;
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ABMYTAGE, Manager
•
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £70,000,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WACGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
l ’* l f,t ■ - /*■'>' WilUttN '
THE SERVICE MAN
Korea's Crucial Battle.
“Ek Dum”: Better than the
fevered reporting of correspon-
dents, the casualty statistics of
the Korean war put it into true
perspective if they are accurate
and up-to-date. And there is no
reason to believe that they are
not accurate, apart from a state-
ment by a seemingly hysterical
United States Senator.
On July 28, after 34 days’
fighting, they were given as 904
—76 killed, eight died of
wounds, 269 wounded, 79
injured and 472 missing in
action, an average of a little
over two killed and 27 casualties
a day all told in a campaign
which the daily newspapers had
made to sound like a major
war.
Then the line began to
solidify with the arrival of fresh
U.S. troops, of whom there were
more in action from August 2-3
onwards, and on August 7 the
figures were 153 killed, 1590
wounded and 873 missing—total
2616. On the face of these
figures it would seem that the
first real fighting in the U.S.
sectors took place after July 28
as the advance of the Koreans
was held up along the Naktong
River. Before that there could
have been little beyond casual
contacts of retreating forces
with the Korean advance-
guards.
Most of the casualties of the
first days of August came from
the fight for the southern
bastion of the U.S. line in what
General MacArthur described
as “heavy fighting,” in which the
25th U.S. Division’s troops, re-
lieving the 24th Division, which
had stood up to the whole of
the long retreat, inflicted a sharp
defeat, and an estimated 600
casualties along a front run-
ning from a point 25 miles
south-east of Chinju to 11 miles
east of the town and 15 miles
north-east of it. In this extreme
southern sector the North
Koreans were seeking to break
through the coastal foundation
of the U.S. holding-line to cap-
ture the port of Masan, only 25
miles from Fusan.
Koreans’ Move in North
The additions to the U.S.
forces led to a regrouping by
the North Koreans, and to a
change in their area of offensive
operations. By August 7 they
had all they could do to hold
an orderly defensive on the
south-western sector, after an
early-morning beach landing by
U.S. reinforcements. U.S. forces
used included a brigade of
Marines and two regimental
combat teams, the whole total-
ling about 15,000 troops. These
for the first time were operating
at comparable strength with the
enemy, who supposedly had
three divisions in the area —the
divisions, being on a Chinese
basis, would not number many
more than 6000 or 7000 each, if
that. The Communists showed
themselves to be well served
with artillery when they were
caught on the point of launch-
ing a drive of their own against
Masan. They reacted skilfully,
diverted what strength they had
assembled for their own offen-
sive from the U.S. striking-point
and landing-point, where then-
attackers could be expected to
be at their strongest, and went
for their right flank with a sharp
counter-offensive.
The U.S. attack does not seem
to have been as efficient as it
might have been. There was
some initial confusion in fitting
the attack together, but there
was an excuse in that it was
urgent to stop the impending
Communist drive before it began
to move. This resulted in the
North Koreans having some
success with their flank drive,
part of which was due to the
efficiency of their intelligence in
forecasting the U.S, intentions.
Twenty-four hours after the
U.S. drive began the U.S.
infantry were moving slowly and
warily up the road to Chinju
and through the adjacent
countryside. Advance units had
reached the outskirts of Sagong,
about 12 miles from Chinju, and
had made contact with a main
North Korean force, about a
division in strength. The ad-
vance had not been all roses,
and one or two Marines detach-
ments had found themselves
isolated at some stages.
At the same time, the fact, that
the southern drive of the enemy
had been halted, and the front
pushed back to allow Fusan
more breathing-space, did not
make any more rosy the situa-
tions which were developing
further north along the 125-mile
boundary of the U.S. defence-
box.
Across the Naktong
On August 8 the North
Koreans had 2000 troops, to
which they seemed to be adding,
across the Naktong River facing
the northern units of the weary
24th Division. This pocket in
the Changyong area, where the
Naktong suddenly bends west-
ward, was in dangerous
proximity to the north-south
road from Taegu to Masan, and
a break-through there would
have imminently imperilled the
highway from Taegu to Fusan,
the very heart of the defence-
box’s internal communication
system.
While holding and reinforcing
this position in spite of every-
thing the Americans could do,
the North Koreans, also on
August 8, transferred their main
offensive operations towards the
north-west corner of the box in
a manner which suggested that
they had been not unmindful of
the possibilities of U.S. concen-
tration in the extreme south.
The northern “top” of the
defence-box was in any case the
most vulnerable. The attack was
launched against the Ist South
Korean Division, above
Waegwan across the main
northern highway and the Nak-
tong River a few miles from the
main Korean railway, which
runs almost diagonally across
the U.S.-South Korean defensive
area from Fusan.
Most eyes were on the areas
where correspondents watched
the North Koreans “reeling
back” to within three miles of
Chinju, “throwing away their
arms” on the southmost sector
and giving up their bridgeheads
further up the Naktong in a
“rout” before the “furious
assaults” of the much-battered
24th Division, But it seemed on
the general face of what was
happening all round the fronts
that these enemy withdrawals
were associated with reorienta-
tion of the Communist plan of
campaign to meet the altered
conditions due to the reinforce-
ment of the U.S. forces.
By August 12 this was all too
well confirmed. Chinju was in
flames, but covered by a well-
cushioned and economical de-
fence, while a new counter-
attack in the south had been
directed against the left flank of
the U.S. attack line.
The bridgeheads which had
been apparently so easily broken
up by a tired division in the
centre of the western line of the
Naktong had been extended in
the Changyong sector. A new
bridgehead in the north conyeni-
ent to the junction of the sectors
held by U.S. and South Korean
troops had been established.
This was partly aimed to attract
U.S. forces northwards and
partly to probe the possibility
of getting behind the advancing
southern U.S. forces.
Pohang Falls
jo the north of it again a
t ar „ e formation of North
Ko B reans was beginning to hit
fh s tb Koreans— pictured
latter i y by t h e correspondents,
had at first shown great
f them as about the
fighters since the Greeks
xhis b i ow took
tb J. n P or th-west corner
defence box and open a
way down the Seoul-Fusan rail-
way while at the same time fore-
j s al retreat aU a)o ng
‘ , .
Another strong enemy drive
went down the west coast and
wrested the U.S supply port of
Pohang, on which the South
Koreans had been existing, from
the United States force and by-
passing the 3rd South Korean
Division, isolated a small U.S.
force on Pohang airstrip, which
was holding out on August 12
with lts back to the sea, but
which eventually was evacuated,
The U.S. southern drive had
reached its first objective at that
stage, and its front line was
lodged on the hills immediately
east of Chinju* to the south-east
of which they had taken their
first sizable town, Kosong. But
this movement had little real
significance in view of the fact
that further north the Koreans,
across the Naktong, had sue-
ceeded in driving back the 24th
Division’s troops three or four
miles to a point only 35 miles
from Fusan, at the same time
cutting the division’s main supply
route and ending up only 12
miles from the Taegu-Fusan
highway. It took some effort to
restore the 24th Division’s com-
niumcations.
At the end of a week of con-
fused lighting the Americans
were struggling to hold the wall
against increasing Korean pres-
sure in the Pohang area, in the
bouth Korean-U.S. linkage sec-
round i n the
Changyong bridgehead, where
a PP arei %
me road Trom Taegu to
* o7Th d tt?
°\ me f /° of the U.S.
ad ,^ to hmju - The y had
£““7 three divisions across the
Naktong. They were massing a
Northern
as , northern halt of a pmcer
to close on Taegu. The crucial
batdes , for Fusan . were if their
earl y sta S es on A W* 14.
Russian Methods
Throughout the week the
Koreans had proved not onlv
f , y
... - , lcir ta^jcal
versatility and resource. They
had also proved to the satisfac-
non of all students of the Russo-
German war of 1941-45 that
their tactics were not being
directed by Koreans,
However, U.S. forces are on
the increase, and help is on the
way from other directions. Aus-
tralia’s battalion or so is being
organised with flourishes of
trumpets and plenty of cheap
Press publicity worthy of the
raising of a whole Army group,
The Turks, without fuss, are
preparing to send a division of
4500 men, a gallant gesture in
view of the fact that they are
nextdoor to a greater danger,
Moscow having since March last
caused the gradual withdrawal
of all satellite diplomatic repre-
sentatives from Ankara—the
last, from Bulgaria, went home
last week. Panama has offered
a force. The Philippines have
offered 5000 men. The Nor-
wegians have offered some ship-
ping. And Dr. Evatt has offered
advice.
Generally speaking, however,


Cigarette Tobaccos
Pipe Tobacco
“CANADIAN CLUB” Ready Rubbed
Aromatic Fine Cut Blended from
Top Quality Leaf. In 2oz. Packs.
Priced 24/- per lb. or loose Priced
22/- per lb.
“PACIFIC” Fine Cut Ready Rubbed
for Satisfaction and Mildness, in 2oz.
Packs, Priced 3/- per pack, or loose
Priced 22/- per lb.
“WINSTON.” That Fine Old Well
Matured Pipe Mixture that is now
even better than ever. Priced 20/-
per lb. Loose.
Remember WINSTONS, It’s good.
Write; MAIL ORDER DEPT.,
Canadian Pacific
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Box 77, Valley P. 0., Brisbane.
ƒ
IS®rV«6
Sores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon healed by Cuticura ,
Ointment. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti-
septic . Cuticura cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio—
Cuticura Ointment. Soap
and Talcum Powder. „
(utlcuift
OINTMENT*
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere
brings to rupture sufferers an entirely
new method of control, the result of
40 years' practice and improvements,
proved completely successful by all
who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the
orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 27k), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Missing Friencls.
GRAHAM - MURRAY.—Anyone knowing
the whereabouts of any relatives of
JANE MURRAY (daughter of Maurice
Murray and Margaret Smith) and JAMES
GRAHAM, who was born probably in
Glasgow, are asked to communicate with
T. J. PURCELL, Solicitor, 66 King
Street, Sydney.
WILL PERCIVAL EVEREST (or
ERNEST) COMPORT, son of MICHAEL
COMPORT and ROSE SCHOOLING, or
anyone who can give any information
concerning him, please communicate with
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS AND
AGENCY CO. LTD., 401 Collins Street,
Melbourne 1
s
Oil!
W>is * .
BY APPOINTMENT
gin distillers
TO H.M. KING GEORGE VI
Tanqueray Gordon and Co. Ltd.
Pnc4r?nJi4t/u*&e
Gordons
Stands SupfafKZ
Why I soldier on..
Miff-, m
« ' S
wmmm.
mmfi
Here’s a Regular Army soldier with
a secure job and assured pension.
L/Corporal Rupert Good, serving with
the Royal Australian Electrical and
Mechanical Engineers, says:—
“I am a married man with two
children.
“I served with the Air Force during
the Second World War and was em-
ployed as an Armourer.
“On demobilization, I returned to my
civilian job, but missed the outdoor life
which the Services offer.
“With my experience during the War,
I thought I could better myself and
that the Army offered me the oppor-
tunity to improve my position.
“Since enlistment I have qualified as
Gun Fitter, 3 'Star, and have been pro-
moted to L/Corporal.
“I hope to attend a further course in
the near future to improve my general
trade knowledge and learn turning.
“The security of a permanent job,
plus the assured pension makes th®
Regular Army the job for me.”
THERE’S A PLACE FOR YOU IN THE A.R.A. -
• Minimum age 18 years
• Initial engagement 6 years
• Opportunities for reengagement
• Vacancies for technicians and
y specialists
• £l2O gratuity on completion 6 years
service
• £36ogratuity on completion 12years
service
• Life pension at 40 or over, after 20
years service
/
ii
m
i ill
& %
mm
Call and have a talk with the Officer-In-Charge at your nearest Army
Training Depot, or send this coupon to Army Command Headquarters
in your capital city for further details of the A.R.A.
NAME
ADDRESS
RAV.l4.lB.yg
the U.N.O. nations have dis-
tinguished themselves by a
silence which is unique in their
history.
Movements in China continue
to be ominous. Large concen-
trations of Communist troops at
Mukden and on the Tibetan
borders are reported, and a force
is said to be training for the
invasion of Indo-China.
Arms and the Man.
“Ek Dum”: Australia at the
moment is struggling for men to
train for defence, but it cannot
release them without “depleting
industry” which is of value in
the production of war materials.
Thus, where thousands rushed
to the colors in 1914 without
seriously interrupting the current
of production in a mainly
primary-producing country, with
a population round 5,000,000,
in 1950, Mr. Francis, who acts
as Minister for the Army and
Navy,' is giving gingerly assur-
ances to the country that when
he calls up a mere 13,500 youths
for a few weeks of training next
year he will stagger the call-ups
so as not to disturb the even
tenor of the industry of a coun-
try of 8,000,000 people.
Volunteering for services made
necessary by the sending of a
mere battalion group of troops
to Korea 3}as been extremely
limited in Australia, despite the
undignified advertising of the
military authorities and the Press
pictures of recruits posed in war-
like exercises more appropriate
to the movies than to the serious
business of war.
This is largely because of the
attitude of Communist trade-
unions and “Labor” leaders who
have produced a feeling among
young men of the newest genera-
tion that personal service is un-
necessary in a machine age of
push-button, and that, anyhow,
war is the period at which a
sensible man stays at home and,
in the words of Mr. Ernest
Thornton, “makes strikes his
business” because war “is the
workers’ time of opportunity”
when he can force higher wages
and better conditions out of em-
ployers.
Vote-buying “Labor” poli-
ticians who used to have no
plausible excuse to offer in their
anti-service propaganda are now,
thanks to the conditions of
the new age of war mechanisa-
tion, able to plead that young
men must not be sent from
certain industries, such as coal
and metal production, because
they are “vital to industrial war
production.” Any effort to keep
production up without them by
some speed-up in defence effort
and lengthening of working
weeks is immediately met with
shouts of protest that the
profiteer employer is using that
war danger to “cut down
workers’ conditions.”
Thus the new age of mecha-
nisation is leading to disingenu-
ous justification of the depletion
of fighting potential.
And at the same time it is
creating another problem—that
the point is being reached at
which the supposedly civilised
soldier is little use unless he has
technical training of a high
order.
Even with our small scratch
army, which could scarcely fight
Ecuador or Costa Rica at its
present strength, the position has
arisen that no pleading and no
expensive advertising will pro-
duce the required tradesmen.
The shameful state of affairs
prevails that at present the Aus-
tralian Defence Minister, Mr.
Harrison, is about to recruit in
hard-pressed Britain for the
Australian Army.
His campaign begins this
month for an “immediate re-
quirement” of 2500 “other
ranks” —it is symptomatic of the
snobbery of a “Socialist” age
that a warrior must never be re-
ferred to by the proud name of
soldier lest somebody feel that
he is not the equal of his
officers and that he must wear
a uniform as much like an
officer as possible to feed his
self-esteem. The required quota
is to include “1600 tradesmen
and specialists, of whom a pro-
portion may be non-commis-
sioned officers.” They will be
accepted up to 30 years of age
and will be expired-term re-
servists of the British Army and
Territorial forces, except for
some tradesmen who will be
accepted up to 41 years of age.
Single men, the British are being
told, will have preference, “be-
cause of the acute housing
shortage in Australia.”
In other words, the inference
is that they are to have stay-put
home-service jobs guaranteed
for six years in the beginning,
with five years’ optional service
to follow and so on up to 55
years of age.
Australian recruiting is begin-
ning just after the issue of a re-
port by the House of Commons
Select Committee on Estimates
which shows that Australia is
not alone in her mechanisation
problems.
British Difficulties
The committee dwells at
length on “the shortage in the
fighting forces of men to main-
tain modern equipment and
stores at a high enough pitch of
efficiency.” For reasons oi
security it does not state the ex-
tent of the deficiencies, but it
says that they are the subject
for “grave concern.” It declares
that the Royal Navy has not
sufficient experienced men to
maintain the stocks of stores
issued to the Fleet, and that it
is expected that the situation
will get worse until about the
end of 1951. There are “grave
misgivings as to whether the
naval stores branch will not
break down,” and the view is
expressed that the position
could not be satisfactory for “at
least eight years.”
The plight of the Royal Air
Force is described as worse,
since the amount of work done
on an aircraft is in direct rela-
tion to the amount of flying
carried out, with the alarming
result that squadrons have been
meeting their technician difficul-
ties by not using their aircraft
to an extent necessary to achieve
training efficiency.
The Trials of Complexity
The committee reported:
A difficulty experienced by all three
services was the development of
equipment to a degree of technical
efficiency and complexity beyond
their ability to maintain properly with
the men available. The example
quoted was of the Centurion tank,
which at present required one hour’s
maintenance for every hour of
running time.
Yet this tank is likely to be a
decisive weapon in the early
phases of a mobile war.
The Director of Equipment
and Requirements, Brigadier
W. G. Roe, told the committee :
We do not want to restrict the
research and development people,
because in the end it is the best
equipment which wins; but we do
not want to get so out bf balance
that a highly complicated piece of
equipment goes out of action because
we have not the trained men to look
after it.
The position certainly is get-
ting a little “out of balance.” It
seems that the “research and de-
velopment people” are due for a
reminder that they might apply
their grey matter to fitting their
weapons and equipment to the
normal mentality of the average
soldier and fitting the average
soldier to meet conditions as
they come rather than to trying
to produce, at the expense of
huge inroads upon transport and
industrial potential, technical
conditions which defeat them-
selves and home-from-home con-
ditions on service which the
tough fellows of Gallipoli
would have regarded as more
fitted for a girls’-school picnic
than for war.


&
; -a.
DEFEAT THAT OLD
DEVIL DANDRUFF
fitewc
sis
Ipli;
mm
m*
LH4/130
WSffiP' Sold ai all n «
Chemists & Siores fc/**
HAIRDRESSING
(WITH LANOLIN)
Lustre Creme—America’s
favourite Hair Dressing—
has a high quality Lantflin
base that is best for your
scalp and best for your
hair. A little Lustre Creme
—a few seconds combing
—and you’ve handsome
hair all day. It gives no
’’plastered down" look!
Try Lustre Creme to-day!
• Relieves dry scalp
• Removes loose dandruff
• Gives lustre to dull,
unruly hair
• Makes hair healthy
and handsome
It’s handier in a tube
A Kay Daumit
Preparation
KEEP IT
Comfortable]
m
/
m
7>
"■
|.C
.i-A S ' T
B U t
RfA
tsstt* GS
THt
fIRSt
i|3
A product of T . J. Smith d Nephew Ltd
Hull . England.
W.
■
i »
Somebody hurt!
Then reach for the
Elastoplast, the famous
first aid dressing that is
for greater com-
fort. The handy red tin contains
dressings of various size and shape
to give correct protection to every
injury. Flesh-coloured and incon-
spicuous, too!
SIZED AND SHAPED
' FOR EVERY NEED
IN THE HANDY RED TIN
At chemist*
everywhere.
5. 85/U*
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
LESSONS OF KOREA.
Proverbially, truth is reckoned
the first casualty of war. In the
case of Korea the first casualty
in the U.S., according to the
American staff of London
“Economist,” wa s “flatulent
over-confidence.”
Maybe that wasn’t restricted
to the U.S., and, in any case, it
could be matched by the early
lack of realism in Britain —the
“Economist” itself being a not-
able exception. Generally the
whole Western line-up was taken
completely by surprise, finding
itself, for all the great talk over
the last year or two, utterly un-
ready to give anything like an
instant united answer to even
such a comparatively minor
challenge.
All that apart, it seems that
the U.S. was directly surprised
also through the evident poor-
ness of its information services.
On the day President Truman
ordered American sea and air
forces into action the U.S.
official estimate of the challenge
was (“New York Times” re-
port): North Korea, six to nine
divisions —probably 95,000 men ;
70 to 100 tanks; morale prob-
ably low. United States, sea
and air forces probably sufficient.
After about a fortnight’s
bitter fighting the estimate was
amended to this: North Korea,
10 to 15 divisions (150,000 to
250,000 men); 220 tanks; almost
unlimited supplies behind lines
in Siberia and Manchuria;
morale and leadership excellent.
United States, eight full divif
sions, perhaps 250,000 men in
all, needed; manpower, tanks,
heavy artillery, planes in Pacific
woefully inadequate; vast sup-
plies needed from home bases
7000 miles away.
MacArthur Against It
In some reports General Mac-
Arthur has been credited jointly
with President * Truman as
responsible for America’s quick
action to meet the Korean chal-
lenge.
This version—repeated in the
British Press—emanated from
various American publications,
such as the “Chicago Tribune”
and the weekly “U.S. News,” the
latter stating that General Mac-
Arthur called for a showdown
while U.S. State Department
officials “were expressing the
view that Southern Korea would
have to be crossed off as ex-
pendable.” Acheson, it further
stated, agreed “when all the
cards were on the table and
when General MacArthur out-
lined the action needed.”
On which the “Economist’s”
American staff comments : “In
this way myths are created that
pervert the truth. It was Mr.
Acheson who insisted on action.
General MacArthur, whose intel-
ligence had left him in complete
ignorance of the North Korean
preparations, continued to op-
pose the idea of intervention
until the moment when he was
ordered to use his air force and
fleet.”
Attlee Consulted
A general impression no
doubt is that, whoever it was in
the U.S. that decided, the deci-
sion was, anyway, an indi-
vidually American one, which,
when made and announced, prac-
tically gave the rest of the West
and U.N.O. little choice.
An Edinburgh “Scotsman”
correspondent, always well-
informed on British Govern-
ment affairs, gives a different
version, declaring that when the
State papers are eventually dis-
closed they will show that
Britain took a leading part in
the first decision to make a stand
in Korea.
“Mr. Attlee,” says this report,
“received direct communications
from Washington while the U.S.
Government were still hesitat-
ing. These asked what Britain
thought should be done. The
answer was at once given that
full physical resistance must be
offered, and that Britain would
support this to the limit. There-
f", 1 !* President announced
deasl ° n -
«
Atrocities
“The Korean war,” as ‘New
York TimeS ” fra ?P y , pUtS
‘has been a war without quarter
on both sides.”
showing the soldiers with then
hands tied behind then backs,
shot through the head. Behind
— London "News Chronicle."
"Are we all packed? I can no longer resist the will of my
beloved people."
(This ironic cartoon seemed apt enough when it first appeared just prior
to King Leopold's return to Belgium; it makes an even more [?]
ironical comment on his Quick decision to abdicate, the Crown of his
no doubt "beloved” though not all loving people going to the heir-
apparent, Prince Baudouin. As listed by the "Times.” the accusations,
right or wrong, against Leopold were (1) He violated the Constitution
when he decided in 1940, against the advice of his Ministers, to go
into captivity with his army instead of into active exile with his
Government; (2) committed various acts savoring of "collaboration"
with the German enemy; (3) made a second marriage unworthy of his
position in the State.)
the American lines,” the same re-
port adds, “United Nations ob-
servers saw South Korean police
clubbing 40 prisoners with rifle-
butts, The police explained they
were breaking captured guer-
rillas’ backs before shooting
them.”
In London the Leftish “New
Statesman” culls with relish re-
ports in the British Press of
atrocities committed by South
Koreans, among them a Reuter’s
report that the chief of the
South Korean police had “con-
firmed that 1200 Communist
‘security risks’ had been exe-
cuted since the outbreak of
war.”
Also, a report by a London
“Times” correspondent: “The
South Korean police brought
several hundred of the more
prominent Communist prisoners
south with them. When unable
to bring them farther of
transport difficulties they hive
taken them into the hills, made
them dig a communal grave and
then shot them.”
Inadequate Arms
When final reports are made
it will probably be shown that,
for somewhat scratch occupa-
tion troops, inadequately armed,
the Americans did a much better
job in the circumstances than the
reports of retreats would per-
haps seem to indicate.
The decisive weapon in the
North Korean advance was the
tank (“New York Times” re-
port), with the North Koreans’
tanks not only superior to the
first American tanks and greatly
outnumbering them, but too
good also for such anti-tank
weapons as the Americans had.
The American tank set-up
makes a good illustration of the
general unreadiness of the West.
The U.S. has a pool of about
8400 tanks, but (as “New York
Times” comments) “demothbal-
ling” them and getting any ot
them to Korea takes time:
“Moreover, the American tanks
are primarily modifications of
II General
tom mse were outclassed by
the German tanks and defeated
.. ._i v u v numerical
e ® ° regarded
Srior to
.. K «
same paper’s special
fe 3£
U_S from the fighting: §
i«, r npH nnicklv that the
G. . q
bazooka rocket that wrought
havoc on German and Japanese
tanks bounce off Communist
tanks like fiery tennis-balls. They
learned also that Communists
pressed into mortar, rifle and
machine-gun fire with grim de-
termination and disregard for
losses, apparently confident that
their numbers could overwhelm
the defenders. Under this wither-
ing assault G.ls. grumbled about
failures back home to keep up
with the Soviets in producing
weapons capable of smashing
tanks. ‘I understand we’ve got
powerful recoilless weapons that
can knock hell out of these
things,’ a member of a bazooka
team told this correspondent.
‘But a hell of a lot of good
they’re doing us if we ain’t got
them.’ ”
Another rather frank item
from the same report: “Infiltra-
tions have taken a serious toll of
American morale. One veteran
of Pacific-island fighting put it
this way: ‘At least with the Japs
we knew who the enemy was—
he was anybody with slant-eyes.
Here everybody but us has got
slant-eyes. How’re you going to
tell who’s who?”’
Lessons for the West
One lesson, pointed out by a
correspondent of Paris “Le
Monde,” is that the Korean
fighting has shown that optimis-
tic opinions regarding the use of
tactical air-power to take the
place of ground forces need to
be revised.
Against that, however, it
would seem that the air-power
thrown in early was just as in-
adequate for the job as the
ground troops and weapons.
“Le Monde’s” correspondent
quotes British military writer
Liddell Hart to the effect that
Korea had indicated that Wes-
tern Europe could not be de-
fended without an army of 35
divisions: “So long as Western
Europe lacks those divisions it
can have no sense of security
however great the United States
Air Force might be and however
certain it might be that that air
force would be thrown massively
into Europe.”
Referring to the Western
side’s defence policies generally
as being “geared to the expecta-
tion of war in two or three
years’ time,” London “Econo-
mist” has commented: “The
lesson of Korea is, surely, that
the defence that is available
within six months, or six days,
has far greater value than pos-
sibly better and more tech-
nically-efficient defence that
would nevertheless not be ready
for another two years. The
timetables of military planning
have to be given the urgency of
near-war.”
In further editorial comment
the “Economist” quotes Mr.
Menzies as stating in one of his


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
£
J,
a
an
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6i YEARS OP SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Always keep
a bottle in
the home • • •
0
&
as
&
Zo
VjS
N.B.W.
DISTRIBUTORS
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
o
TST.ll.lt
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
ss
HOSPITAL
BRANDY
f
It’s tfie same in Pitt Street
as in Piccadilly , . •
nr i
all eyes follow the
SHEERLINE!
ƒ
Even in the heart of London’s fashionable
West End—side by side with the world’s most famous cars —the Austin
“Sheerline” is outstanding.... A 4*litre, 6-cylinder; 125 h.p.
overhead valve engine; independent front suspension; steering column
gear control; hypoid rear axle; sound insulated body; Dunlopillo
cushions; leather upholstery; walnut veneer interior; concealed
reading lamps; built-in heating and windscreen demisting; power
jacking—those are just a few of the “Sheerline’s” luxury features—*
features which, combined, mean sheer beauty, sheer luxury,
sheer quality in every detail.
More Frequent Shipments Mean Earlier Delivery
The Incomparable
■m i
> lARKE HOSKINI
N.S.W. Distributors: LARKE,
t
Z. by
HOSKINS & CO. LTD., 207 William Street, Sydney. FA 8111
AC 18.83
London speeches: “It is all too
true that from time to time we
have a foreign policy of one
kind and a defence policy of
another, forgetting that a power-
ful foreign policy begets obliga-
tions and that a realistic defence
policy makes you fit to perform
them.”
“Such,” comments the
“Economist,” “has been the
weakness of Western policy. In
diplomacy there is general agree-
ment that a stop'must be put to
Communist expansion. In de-
fence, however, the conclusion
appears to have been that the
West can have as much military
strength as it can ‘afford,’
whether or not that level bears
any relation to the strength
needed to keep Communism in
check. Korea has shattered
these pretensions. The Western
Powers cannot live any longer
in a cloud-cuckoo land of con-
tainment without weapons and
defence by instalments.”
Actually, the same publica-
tion insists, the Korean aggres-
sion had been of definite value
to the West: “The net effect of
Korea is to remove two of the
basic doubts about Western
policy. To those who wondered
whether the United States really
would come to the assistance of
any victim of aggression the
answer is now on the record.
And the other great question-
mark, whether the West had
enough organised force to re-
move any possibility of a quick
victory for Communist aggres-
sion is also, by all apparent
signs, to be removed.”
Altogether, on a cool analysis,
the fact that the Korean inci-
dent had happened increased the
chances of avoiding a world-wide
war. There had been two main
reasons for fearing that total war
might break out: “The first was
madness in the Kremlin, and
that still remains. The second
was miscalculation in the Krem-
lin, and the chances of that are
surely now greatly reduced. For
the West the lesson is not to
change policy but to pursue the
former policy with more vigor
—and with more confidence that
it will succeed in preventing
war.”
Contending that, despite
Korea, or any other aggressions
on the borders of China, or even
in the Middle East, the place
where the issue will be deter-
mined —whether it be by cold
war or by hot—is in Europe, the
“Economist” added: “It is here
that the two systems lie close to-
gether and where mortal blows
can be exchanged So long as
there is any risk of a rapid
Russian occupation of the Wes-
tern Continent, Western diplo-
macy is hampered from one end
of the world to the other. The
very first priority of a policy of
peace through strength is to
create an international army in
being in Europe strong enough
to deter aggression. The second
priority is to have similar forces
within reach of the other weak
spots in the chain. The third is
to create a mobile reserve of the
free nations, which could be
rapidly moved wherever it was
needed. The fourth is to have
the plans, the designs and the
orders ready, so that, if it is
necessary, industry can be very
rapidly mobilised. The fifth is
to make sure that the allied
countries are working to an
agreed and understood pro-
gramme. If all these things can
be done there will be no world
war. These necessities were ap-
parent before the Korean inci-
dent. They are, in fact, inherent
in any idea of containment.
What Korea has done is to
throw a blinding light on the
gap between Western needs and
Western performance!”
The Menzies Mission.
Under this heading London
“Economist” editorially com-
mented : —
“The goodwill and under-
standing that have characterised
Mr. Menzies’s visit to London
have quickly driven to ground
rumors - circulating beforehand
of political misunderstandings
between Liberal Australia and
Labor Britain, and of clashes
over increased Australian de-
mands for dollars from the
sterling pool.
“The Korean war may be
partly responsible. If Com-
munist pressure is to increase in
Asia, Australia is an indispens-
able base for the free world and
a natural link between the
United States and British
strength in Europe and Africa.
“Much of the impetus behind
Australia’s enormous immigra-
tion programme springs from
the determination to provide
Australia with the population
and the economic strength to
deter aggression. The capital
needs which this programme
entails —of which housing is
only the most pressing example
—go beyond the capacity of the
sterling area. The hydroelectric
schemes, in particular, require
dollar imports. There is thus
every reason, from the point of
view of [British] Commonwealth
defence, for London to welcome
and agree with plans for Aus-
tralian expansion, even at a
certain extra dollar cost.
“But the success achieved by
Mr. Menzies also turns on the
reasonableness of his case. It
is true that Australia is techni-
cally a dollar ‘user,’ but this is
in large measure because many
raw materials —minerals, wool,
meat —which could be sold for
dollars are in fact supplied in
return for sterling, and the dollar
problem of the sterling area as
a whole is eased in this way.
Th& result has been a steady
growth in Australia’s sterling
balances, which are now in the
neighborhood of £400 million.”
Dragnet Digest.
Tito’s "Dollar Gap .” —Somewhat
surprising item in a “Manchester
Guardian” report from Belgrade:
“Yugoslav foreign trade is now based
almost entirely on the West, and her
‘dollar gap’ is her Number One prob-
lem.”
± £ s|e £
Malaya War Costs. —As reported
by London “Financial Times”; “The
direct cost of the war this year in
Malaya is estimated at around £18m.,
to which the Malayan Government
is now contributing almost half its
revenue. This may be an under-
estimate. But the stakes are so great
that it would be no extravagance for
the British Government to undertake
the whole of the burden.”
* * * #
A. Pacifist Fallacp. Debunked
editorially by London “Times”:
“Some may argue, drawing upon his-
tory, that a race in arms can have
only one outcome —war. They can
argue thus because the chance of
deterring the attacker by showing
strength in time has never before been
taken. It is this fact that anxious
and sincere pacifists in the [British]
Labor party, who even now are eager
to find some juridical bargain over
Korea which may postpone the
aggressor’s challenge, refuse to see.
They are in the good company of
Mr. Nehru; but they are perilously
wrong.”
♦ * * •
British Socialist Ukase. —London
“Spectator” comment on the British
Labor-party manifesto rejecting the
Schuman scheme: “It is generally
admitted, even in Labor circles, that
in the long history of human mis-
management no document has ever
been so fanatically ill-timed.” And
a typical U.S. comment on the same
(from N. Y. “Herald Tribune”):
“The Labor party takes the view that
if there were Socialist Governments
in a majority of European countries,
the British Labor party might be will-
ing to co-operate more fully. In
short, the British Laborites, invited
to co-operate, say in effect, ‘Unless
you manage your internal affairs
according to our special Socialist
pattern, we won’t play.’ This is a
presumptuous and doctrinaire atti-
tude that even the American Congress
did not have the nerve to take in
allocating Marshall-Plan aid.”
* * * •
Overcrowded Hong Kong. —A cor-
respondent on the spot reports in
“Manchester Guardian” that the
greatest problem that has affected
Hong Kong since the end of the war
has been overcrowding. From about
600.000 at the end of 1945 the popu-
lation has increased to an estimated
2.250.000 or possibly 2,500,000 at the
present time.
* * * *
As Others See Us. Very few
Americans (as seen by a New York
correspondent of “Manchester Guar-
dian”) have ever heard of the Statute
of Westminster or really credit the
independence of the Dominions, and
the ‘word “Commonwealth” is under-
stood nowadays as a post-war
euphemism invented to soften the
harsher overtones of “Empire.”
* * * #
Big Stakes in Berlin. —With the
West still holding its own there, the
game in Berlin is for very high stakes,
the chief of them thus listed by “New
York Times”: “If Russia could oust
the Western Big Three from their
sector of the city, it would stand to
gain greatly in prestige, in power, in
progress toward the Kremlin’s ulti-
mate goal of controlling all Germany.
Russia would eliminate the Western
‘island,’ 100 miles within the Soviet
Zone, that prevents the full consolida-
tion of East Germany under the
Communists. On the other hand, if
the Western Powers hold firm, they
will demonstrate their determination
and power to all Germany and
Europe. They will retain an invalu-
able ‘listening post’ deep within
Russia’s bailiwick. They know that,
if they ever did leave Berlin under
duress, they would lose whatever
chance there is of uniting Germany
on a non-Communist basis.”


\Sfe^M/iee/
m
m
:• >
7a
Ik
-C
£»£
s«
Some men, by their very occupations, have great
traditions to keep up. Not the least of them
is that they should be well shaved, always'
That is why such men use Blue Gillette Blades.
They know, by actual experience, that the Blue
Gillette is the world’s finest blade. It shaves
cleaner and more smoothly —and it Iksts longer.
• SO DURABLE —each
blade gives you extra shaves.
• SO SHARP—they stroke
your heard away,
•SO FAMOUS—they have
made the world dean shaven.
*c<s
(jasuads/p oiftofd ui)
8/0 -*oj OS
P/9 01
8/1 JOj g
*Good mornings 9 begin with Gillette
■mwM
mm
TYRES
dusfrafa/7 ,,, Cfawp/b/TS o/ffie Poatf
OT 38.16.50
A PRODUCT OF THE OLYMPIC TYRE * RUBBER CO LTD.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
T V V
“My dear chap, when you kiss a
girl there’s no need to dry-clean her.”
—-Letter in Sydney “D.T.”
A little pressing will do just as
well.
-!• -I- -F
Can any reader tell me where I
can report ray baker for not deliver-
ing bread? — Letter to Sydney paper.
Don’t tell Clive Evatt; in-
stead of bread he’ll give you a
stone,
•F *F *F
“Only women know the horrors of
buying foundation garments.”
— Woman’s magazine.
Yet they generally manage to
pull themselves together.
“Believe me there is nothing more
baffltng than trying on a brassiere in
a 'iimited space.”
—Article in woman's paper.
A lift, for instance.
•F *F *F
“The best-looking legs cannot sur-
vive a graceless walk.”
Woman’s paper.
The pace that kills,
4* 4*
“The world’s richest woman plans
to raise the world’s cleanest pigs in
the world’s plushest piggery.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
More than the swine deserve.
•F *F *F
“There’s no 40-hour week for bees,
according to the Australian Honey
Institute.”
But they’re on a sweet thing
just the same.
An Awful Mesh.
“The string-bag is the symbol of
feminine bondage in Australia.”— U.S.
Embassy official T. C. M. Robinson.
In years of war when all were
hit
Mum freely did her little bit
By daily trekking up the street
To buy her groceries and meat,
Or struggle home with loaves of
bread
That bakers once had brought
instead.
And burdens weighing more and
more
Delivered once right to her door.
Such swags would certainly
decrease,
She fondly thought, in years of
peace ;
But now, alas, she is resigned
To hump this carryall, designed
To bulge with jams and mutton-
chops.
Or apples from the fruiters’
shops.
She knows — it’s futile to get
scotty —
That string-bags are a problem
knotty.
D.H.E.
“Ars Longa....”
“An impression is often gained that
the big matmen you see tearing into
each other at the Stadium are clods.
This isn’t so. Many have wide
cultural interests. Among visiting
wrestlers in the past few years have
been a Shakspearian student and a
classical scholar.” —Sporting article.
An air compounded of the
literary and the academic per-
vaded Wren’s Sydney blood-
house, which “Labor” politicians
were so desperately trying to
save from the march of progress,
and even more desperately try-
ing to convey that they weren’t
trying to save. The contest was
between Man-mountain Ike
(“Othello”) Doogong and the
“Human Bulldozer” — Pete
(“Aristophanes”) Pulvriza,
Ike came into the ring and
strutted up and down in the tra-
ditional garb of the Venetian
Moor which he affected and to
which he owed his pseudonym.
Pete entered with the lofty, de-
tached air of the classical
scholar in cap and gown.
Shortly after they had dis-
carded their trappings, to revea)
the usual trunks, the bell went.
upon which Ike struck an atti-
tude and exclaimed :
“I go, and it is done; the bell invites
me.
Hear it not, Dtmcan, for it is a knell
That summons thee to heaven or to
hell.”
In the centre of the ring they
circled each other, looking with
wary eyes. Suddenly Ike lunged,
grabbed Pete’s neck in the crook
of his right arm, twisted around,
bent to take the strain, and then
heaved his gigantic opponent
over his back. Several loose
"No nonsense until you've eaten , Lancelot!”
sheets of galvanised-iron on the
noble edifice started to do a
xylophone solo as the place
shook with the impact of the
fall.
Almost before his antagonist
had hit the floor Ike had jumped
with both feet straight on his
face; then, as Pete started to
struggle up, he fell on him and
applied a double hammer-lock.
As .they both strained, one to
effect a pin and the other to
break free, Pete could be heard
distinctly in the ringside seats
as he gasped: “Adhuc sub
jiidice Us est!”
The broadcasting commenta-
tor was dancing in excitement
beside his microphone. “He’s
got him this time!” he exulted.
“The big fellow will never get
out of this —it’s an utter impos-
sibility. The ref.’s moving in
now and begins to —well, they’re
back now in the middle of the
ring and—Ha!, ha! Hear that,
listeners? As Pete broke the
hold Ike stood back and said:
‘O, that this too too solid flesh would
melt.
Thaw and resolve iself into a dew! ’ ”
It was the Human Bulldozer’s
turn now. As Ike’s probing
head came within range he
leapt forward and applied a
headlock, following it with a
terrific back-slam. Before he
could descend on him, however,
Ike whipped to his feet, but the
Bulldozer caught him a crunch-
ing butt on the chin with his
head. As Ike staggered back
against the ropes Pete got his
neck between the twisted strands
and began leaping on the ropes.
With Ike’s tongue starting to
protrude from his rapidly-
blackening face his opponent let
him have a shattering kick in
the slats with a “Bene merenti-
bus!” . , , t
The Bulldozer let go the ropes
as a police inspector began to
move forward, and while Ike
was staggering towards the
centre of the ring Pete gave him
a heavy rabbit-killer, followed
by two solid punches to the
jaw. As he brought his knee up
into the other’s stomach some
representatives of the gentle sex
situated just behind the battery
of deadhead “Labor” poli-
ticians at the ringside let out a
shriek of pure joy and urged
Pete to tear his gizzard out. The
Human Bulldozer completed the
exhibition of. clean skill by
picking Ike up and hurling him
on to the Press-table.
Picking himself up from
among the shattered deal and
scattered pressmen Ike growled
“Marry I The scurvy knave
hath the same devilish strength
as Orlando didst display in con-
tending against the usurping
Duke Frederick’s Charles!”
Getting through the ropes
again, Ike stopped a kick in the
face which brought more shrieks
of joy from the ladies, and from
Ike, as he spat a couple of teeth
out, a gently intoned:
“When sorrows come, they come not
single spies,
But in battalions!”
Soon the classical contestants
were again moving around seek-
ing an opening, when Ike sud-
denly stopped, threw out a mas-
sive arm and declaimed;
“ Like to the Pontic sea,
Whose icy current and compulsive
course
Ne’er feels retiring eb'b, but keeps
due on
To the Propontic and the Hellespont,
Even so my bloody thoughts, with
violent pace ”
As Pete stopped to listen in
rapt admiration the arm Ike was
holding out suddenly seized his
opponent, slammed him and
tried for a body-press. But
Pete was too quick. Leaping up
he grabbed the Shakspearian ex-
ponent, upended him and, to
more ecstatic shrieks from' the
gentle sex, began pile-driving
Ike’s head into the floor. Only
once before he collapsed came
words from the stricken one a
feeble
„ “ Weariness
Can snore upon the flint, when restv
sloth
Finds the down pillow hard.”
Uproar broke out as Ike was
borne forth on a stretcher, and
from the bleachers came a
stentorian voice of protest;
“Strike me stiff if I ain’t done
two-bob on the useless swine!
It’s been readied up. I bet the
cow’s runnin’ dead!”
Pete (“Aristophanes”) Pulv-
tiza, who had caught only the
word “cow’s” and “dead,”
reverently removed the mortar-
board his urger had put on him,
bent a reproving look in the
direction of the speaker and,
raising his hand, said gently “D e
mortuis nil nisi bonum !”
BO.
A Slashing Throwback.
“Vandalism is inherent in Aus-
tralians.” — Brisbane Lord Mayor J.
B. Chandler.
Don’t think too harshly of the
lad
Who carves initials on a tree
For there is evidence that he
May not inherently be bad.
You may reproach the youngster,
but
It’s natural that at his years,
Inspired by older racketeers,
He’ll want to get in for his cut.
And who can blame the kids
who bring
A stone or two where statues
stand,
For it’s a truth in any land
That lusty lads must have their
fling.
BERT.


tltaii
fl FINE HOTEL
A Hotel, certainly one of Sydney**
leading Hotels, Hut different to
every otHer in many things. The
V/entworth, for instance. Has ever
leen noted for its quiet restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noisei and
Hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
in
cS
T n 7
Thone BW 1561 (10 line*)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE NEW.
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
rJU-METAL comes to you in a separate
tube for each cylinder, thus eliminating
guesswork. Municipal Councils, En-
gineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
is '-- Call . wri te or phone MA7250.
■Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-METAL
to treat a Cylinder Engine. I
enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address
l6/8/’5O
BRISTOL, TRADING COMPANY
,ir,. lßt^ Floor ' Brlstol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, ma 7250
BOWLS
A valuable book of
interest to all
bowlers —“How To
Become a Champion” by R T
Harrison. Fully illustrated. Send for
your copy to “The Northern Daily
Leader,” Tamworth, N.S.W. 5/-
Posied.
a
A
W.
ill
In
tins of 20
6T APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
HIS MAJESTY THE TING
V- SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BensonZuHedges
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
LTD
TSIO
When the perfection of the setting
calls for something of
real character and unquestionable
distinction, you will find
the appropriate cigarette bears
the name of Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London in
keeping with the occasion
when only the best will do .
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Last of the four classic events of
the jumping season, the Australian
Steeple, run at Caulfield on Saturday,
produced a result not noticeably more
pleasing to the majority of punters
than had been the successes of Hush
Hush (10 to 1) in the Grand National
Hurdle, Parilla’s Pride (8 to 1) in the
National Steeple and Enthean (25 to
1) in the Australian Hurdle. Winner
of the Australian Steeple, and in
ridiculously easy fashion at that, was
Llandrillo, who started fifth in the
betting at 8 to 1 after having, at his
previous start, failed when he was a
3-to-l favorite for the A. V, Hiskins
Steeple at Moonee Valley.
After doing all the early pace-
making, Tanakee fell with 10 fur-
longs to go, leaving Llandrillo in
front, and thereafter it simply wasn’t
a race. As they advanced into the
final stages of the gruelling journey
of three and a half miles and 29
fences the jumping of other con-
testants became the rough and ragged
work of very tired animals, but
Llandrillo gave a beautiful exhibition,
and finished full of stamina to win
by 10 lengths from Don Gipsy. After
Don Gipsy it was two and a half
lengths ,to Jung Bahadur and half the
length of the straight to favorite The
Feline.
Llandrillo, who is .an aged brown
gelding by Parenthesis from Llamrei,
carried 9.5 and cut out the journey
in 6.56, against the race record of
6.50. The winning ride on Llandrillo
represented fair compensation for
jockey B. R. Smith, who earlier had
had the stiff luck to fall at the final
jump in the Arkaringa Hurdle, just
as his mount, Foxen, had taken the
lead from Bajardo and looked set
for a win. With Foxen down,
Bajardo lasted it out to beat Elastin
by a neck; consistent Monte Cassino
was third. The successes of Bajardo
and Llandrillo represented an interest-
ing breeding double of sorts, Llan-
drillo being a full brother to
Macßob, who is the sire of Bajardo.
When Melbourne Cup time comes
round horses worthy of particular
consideration are those which have
won or shown good form over the
Cup distance. These usually do
not, as would be the case in many
other major handicaps, comprise the
majority of the field, for races over
two miles appear very infrequently
on the run of racing programmes
through the season. There was a two-
miler at Caulfield —the £l5OO Malakoff
Stakes —and the horse whose per-
formance would be worth recalling
if he is still in the Cup by November
is Vantage.
Vantage’s performances under hefty
weights during the winter have been
consistently good. He did not win
on Saturday; indeed, was beaten two
lengths by the Irish-bred importation
Mulatto (A. Burton). But Vantage,
with 9.5, was conceding Mulatto
201 b., and the rest more. That is
not to detract from the performance
of Mulatto, an aged son of Bimco-
Black and White, but it puts matters
in a proper perspective; Vantage
was impressive in defeat. Mulatto
is not entered for the Cups, which
must grieve his connections. Vantage
has 8.1 in the Melbourne Cup and
8.5 in the Caulfield,
Without inspiring any dreams of
impending classic victories, one or
two other beaten horses at Caulfield
impressed as likely to do better in
suitable races ere long. Cape Ned-
dick’s fast-finishing third behind
Mulatto and Vantage suggested the
possibility of a win at 12 furlongs
or so. The Whirlaway colt, Aiister,
ran a tip-top race to finish third in
the Chatsworth Plate for three-year-
olds, which hot favorite Laurie
Hussar (Sam Martin) won comfort-
ably from Qustar. And Landetis was
unlucky to miss out on a place in
the 9-furlongs Cambria Plate for
four-year-olds, which saw the 20-to-l
shot Gold Bar (L. Lott) defeat
Voussoir in a photo-finish, Rebuke
just shading Landetis. After being
close to the money in every earlier
flat event, jockey J. Purtell really hit
his stride at the end of the day, taking
the second Cambria Plate on equal-
favorite Generous and the St. Aubin
Handicap on Dupont.
* * * *
Sydney last week had a double
issue of racing, with the traditional
Bank Holiday meeting at Randwick
on the Monday and an S.T.C. fixture
at Canterbury on Saturday. The
unhappy opinion of most punters at
the conclusion of Monday’s proceed-
ings was that as far as they were
concerned their bankers could take
an indefinite holiday. The winners
were, briefly, Captain Dink (12 to 1),
Elegant Lad (100 to 1), Niaranga
(33 to 1), Midwise (9 to 1), Chief
Mohican (10 to 1) and Lordly (5 to
1), before a somewhat inadequate
palliative was offered in the form of
near-equal-favorites Tornado and
Admetus deadheating for first in the
last race. Possibly the most note-
worthy item of the day’s racing was
the effort of Tornado in maintaining
his unbeaten record—eight starts for
seven outright wins and # deadbeat.
The one really bright spot in a
generally moderate afternoon’s racing
at Canterbury was another excellent
display of sheer weight-carrying by
San Domenico in the 6-furlongs
Frederick Clissold Handicap. The race
was a Quality, and the handicapper
could give San Domenico only the
maximum, 9.5, but he made amends
by asking the topweight to concede
his seven opponents from 351 b. to
441 b. Despite this crushing assess-
ment, the betting was 8 to 1 bar one,
with San Domenico at 4 to 1 on.
The favorite disputed the lead with
Journalist nearly all the way, took
charge entering the straight, and was
not troubled to defeat Journalist by
three parts of a length, with Cognac
a length further back third. Possibly
the best tribute to San Domenico was
paid by various experts who pro-
fessed to think it a disappointing
performance. Evidently he was ex-
pected, giving away such terrific
weight, to win by at least half-a-
dozen lengths; if they had done
another circuit of the course probably
he would have.
Owners, in their response, do little
to encourage Sydney race clubs to
continue including in their pro-
grammes, as they do week after week,
a couple of better-class open-company
events with appropriate prizemoney.
There were only eight starters in
Saturday s Clissold Handicap, and a
paltry five in the Canterbury Phrk
Handicap. Neatly ridden by N.
Sell wood, the 10-to-9 favorite Carib-
bean won the Canterbury Handicap
narrowly from Thimble, with Yam-
boon third. Sellwood was in particu-
larly good form at Canterbury; he
rode another nice, copybook race to
Three-year-old Maiden
Stakes for fillies on Surya and a
really clever and perfectly-timed race
to win the Welter on Regal Speed.
While Sellwood had an excellent
day on other trainers’ horses, he was
not able to land one for Maurice
McCarten, for whom he is No. 1
nder. The McCarten stable went
loi a hefty first-up plunge on Tesmic,
an imported four-year-old owned by
S. Wootton. It was Tesmic’s first
outing since he last ran in England
in October, and he proved to be in
need of the run. Contesting the first
Ashbury Mixed (6f.) Tesmic made a
prominent showing until they turned
into the straight; in the run home
he faded out to finish seventh, the
race being won comfortably by Aero-
foil (A. Podmore). Nevertheless
Tesmic was backed in from tens to
fours, and that sort of confidence
from the McCarten stable is worth
keeping in mind.
♦ * * *
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances) :
Richmond Novice: Del Enus, 1;
Editor, 2; Gold Trace, 3. Colo
Three-year-old: Karangi, 1; Panama,
2; Beau Gene, 3. Clarendon Mixed:
Grand Applause, 1; Mulgrave, 2;
Gene Tunney, 3. G. S. Icely Quality
Handicap; Rim Boy, 1; The Groom,
2; Denali, 3. Hawkesbury Grand
Handicap: Blue Mickie, 1; Red
Loch, 2; Vagabond, 3. Windsor
Welter: Cumnock, 1; Pyramid, 2;
Bungymun, 3.
“I had a second helping of Vita-cornies this mornin'."
The Australian Davis Cup team
had a close call against Sweden in
the inter-zone final over the weekend,
but scraped home by three matches
to two. Sedgman caused consterna-
tion in the camp by losing his first
singles to Lennart Bergelin in a five-set
match, but Bromwich came to the
rescue by beating the opposition’s
reputed No. 1 player, Johansson, in
straight sets. The Australian pair
won the doubles in straight sets and
the second batch of singles was a
repeat in reverse of the first, with
Bergelin again winning a five-set
match to beat Bromwich, and Johans-
son losing in straight sets to Sedg-
man.
♦ * ♦ *
“Pass-it” has a look at the tour-
ists: —
At the Sydney Cricket Ground last
Saturday the British Isles Rugby
Union team was not troubled to
beat N.S.W., 22-6. The locals could
offer no excuses for their defeat;
they went down to a vastly superior
side. The British forwards concen-
trated on giving a clean service to
their backs from scrums, lineouts
and rucks, and, with half Willis get-
ting a wide pass away to five-eighth
Kyle, their backs showed that the
fundamentals of positioning and
handling, carried out with confidence
and certainty, plus an appreciation
of overlaps and half-overlaps, are all
that’s required to score tries. They
did not rely on dazzling, side-stepping
players to breach the defence; in fact,
so far as beating a man, none of
their backs showed any more ability
than would be expected from an
Average club representative. What
made their task look so easy was
that the N.S.W. defender was repeat-
edly confronted with the problem of
tackling two men. Most of their
overlaps were started by five-eighth
Kyle, who, from a position behind
his scrum, would suddenly switch out
wide and square to take, at the end
of its flight, a long pass from his
half. This sudden switch before
catching the ball repeatedly brought
him out near the N.S.W. inner centre
Blomley. All his centres then had to
do was to position themselves at a
pass-distance away, come straight
down the field, and the overlap was
completed. In addition, the tourists
were always seeking to make use of
the blind winger and the full-back
as extra men, and on one such occa-
sion full-back J mes went over for a
try.
For defence against this type of
attack there are no hard-and-fast
rules; it requires thought and under-
standing on the part of the inside
backs while the game is in progress,
so that one man must seek to cover
two men or two between them cover
three men. One possibility is that
the five-eighth, with the help of his
breakaway, moves on to cover the
opposing inside centre, and so leaves
his outside men man for man. About
the only alternative is to pick out the
slowest in the opposing line, leave
him unmarked, chop him off from
supports by running alongside him
and wait for the cover defence to
come across to tackle him. Last
Saturday the tourists were not per-
fect in their movements, and none
of their backs was so particularly
speedy that a little intelligent defence
on the part of the home backs might
not easily have kept them in check.
Our visitors look to have a well-
balanced side, but, although it is
risky to judge from Saturday’s game,
when they did everything that could
be expected of them, it looked as if
their forwards might be split by an
Australian pack which concentrated
on hammering through the centre of
them.
* * * *
Like the great big saw in the comic
song, the Melbourne football finals
draw nearer and nearer, and though
Carlton desperately tried to save
themselves from being cut out of
a chance for the finals they only
managed to make it a draw against
St. Kilda. Saints, who started the
season like champions, trailed the
Blues into the last spasm, and then
almost ran them down, 11.17-12.11.
Geelong came up to Collingwood full
of football and faith, was two points
in front at half-time, five points down
at the last change and won by six
points, 11.15-10.15. North Mel-
bourne overran South for a 21.14-
13.11 win, and Essendon did the same
to Richmond, 20.15 to 11.12. Mel-
bourne got a fright from the improved
Footscray team, but won by three
points, 15.11-14.14, and Hawthorn
maintained its position by refusing to
defeat Fitzroy, the Maroons kicking
14.13 to 8.10. If Hawthorn wins a
match this season there’s certain to
be a public inquiry. The day left
“the four” unchanged, Dons, North
Melbourne, Melbourne and Geelong,
and the match of the day next Satur-
day is Essendon and North.


THE
EASIEST
way to
CASTRATE
CALVES!
ELASTRATOR
REGD. TRADE MARK
CASTRATOR & TAILER
Obtainable from Station Suppliers, Woolbrokers,
Chemists and Stores. A product of ELASTRATOR
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
ELIC
"Phenovis" Worm Remedy
aching »
Or MoV is'a time!
'/^S±
f
KEEP IT
HANDY-
THE NEW
IMPROVED
‘PHENOVIS
Phenothiazlne Drench
f
ƒ
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND
PASTORAL HOUSES
PHE-2-X-8191
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle. Pigs, Poultry. Horses. Fruit
and Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm A^ tiv *
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or l/2£ posted *
Bulletin Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS. "
B RISBANE SHOW CATTLE.
“W.S.”: The battle Queens-
land Royal National Association
had to reclaim its Brisbane show-
ground after unprecedented rain
and Australian Rules footballers
had made a.quagmire of it was
nothing compared with the
stories exhibitors told of getting
their cattle to the Show. The
“G.0.M.” of Poll Herefords, J.
E. Zillman, spent a week
struggling against the elements
and atrocious Queensland roads
before he reached the grounds,
only to find that judging of his
breed was over.
As rain pelted down there was
a public clamor to postpone the
Show, but the R.N.A. stuck to
its guns and Inigo Jones’s fore-
cast, and the 1950 Brisbane
Show opened in glorious sun-
shine.
Despite the wettest winter
Queensland has ever experienced
and a strong demand for bulls
in the paddock, stud beef-cattle
entries were only slightly down
on last year.
Herefords
Herefords dominated the
scene as usual, with 149 bulls
and 22 cows from 40 studs in
N. S. Wales and Queensland.
Inter-State visitors thronged the
ringside and were given a grand
display of fast and accurate
judging by L. P. Dutton, Uran-
dangie, Guyra (N.S.W.), who
proclaimed it the best section he
had ever judged in Brisbane.
Father and son won both
senior championships. They
were E. Roy Reynolds, president
of the Australian Hereford
Society and owner of the famous
Ennisview Stud, Oakey (Q.), who
exhibited the champion cow,
Ennisview Cherry Ripe 60th, and
S. B, (Berry) Reynolds, of
Moorlands, Oakey, breeder of
the champion bull Moorlands
Destiny. This bull is an answer
to a geneticist’s dream, being a
model of line-breeding to two
great Hereford sires. Free Town
Director (imp.) and Weston
Illustrious (imp.). His sire,
grandsire and great-grandsire
have won Brisbane champion-
ships within the past 12 years.
Strongest class was for bulls
12 to 15 months, from which
came the junior champion and
reserve —Colly Creek Estate’s
Colly Creek Vanity, by Vern
Voucher (imp.) and William Mc-
Ilrath’s Windsor High Light,
one of the first sons of Free
Town Beacon (imp-) to take the
ring. They will meet again in
Sydney, Colly Creek’s sons of
Yern Voucher (imp.) stood out
for scale and fleshing, but the
stud had an interesting winner
in the under-10-months’ class,
Colly Creek Debonair (imp. in
utero) by the English sire
Debonair, from Sunbeam (imp.).
This calf was miles ahead of
anything else in the class, and
we should hear more of him
later.
A new exhibitor, R. J.
Crothers, of Risdon, Warwick,
did well with females, while
Calliope stud (Wilson and Mc-
Douall) won the sires’ progeny
stakes with two prize bulls and
a heifer by Golf Hill Resolute, a
former Sydney champion.
Poll Hereford’s
Poll Herefords improved then
entries on last yean, the only
beef breed to do so. Pioneer
breeder, L. F. Leake, Albury
(N.S.W.), who exhibited the first
Polls paraded in an Australian
ring, was painstaking in his
judging, and afterwards stated
that the breed had gone a long
way in the brief time since its
introduction into this country.
J. H, Doyle had to get his
Merawah team out with a cater-
pillar-tractor, but was rewarded
with senior championship and
reserve for bulls and junior re-
serve championship. The
champion, Merawah Battleship,
is by Alf Battle V 16th (imp.
U.S.A.), and is one of the best
specimens Brisbane has seen.
Both reserve winners are by
Milton Sensation,
Mrs. Max Wright brought an
outstanding team from her
Blandford stud, Murrurundi
(N.S.W.), winning both junior
championships and sires’ progeny
with get of Bonnie Gem 21st
(imp. N.Z.), now in stud service
at J. Sparkes’s Lyndley stud in
Queensland. Wilson and Mc-
Douall exhibited the female
champion and S. A. Plant and
Son headed group classes.
Aberdeen-Angus
The Aberdeen-Angus section
was a triumph for the Queens-
land enthusiast W. Eaton Web-
ster, Sarum, Kingaroy. Entries
were smaller, chiefly due to the
absence of Booroomooka and
the dispersal of Abington, which
was successful last year. It was
thought that Brisbane would
avail itself of the opportunity of
having at its show the Scotch
judge who is officiating in Mel-
bourne and Adelaide, but it was
not to be, and Hector Goody,
commercial cattleman of Monto,
filled the role. Eaton Webster
won class after class, finishing
the day with two senior and two
junior championships, a feat
rarely achieved at a Royal Show
and a tribute to the breeding
capacity of Mulben Embassy
(imp.), now ending his days in
Queensland. The champion bull
was the only beast in the team
which did not have Mulben Em-
Mandate, and their stud was the
only exhibitor of females. Junior
male champion was C. P. Fair-
bairn and Co.’s Woomargama
Olympic, by Kirkton Dictator
(imp.), which heads Kywanna
stud, owned by Frank Hood,
who is at present looking over
the studs in Scotland.
Poll Shorthorns
Douglas G. Munro officiated
in the Poll Shorthorn section,
where there were too many leggy
types and not nearly enough
competition. The results were a
triumph for the blind breeder J.
T. Scrymgeour, of Netherby,
Warwick. His champion bull,
the white Gunnawarra Gay Lad
10th (purchased in Sydney),
shows quality as well as scale,
and was able to beat Gunna-
“ Cripes! Lucky the axe Was a bit blunt!”
bassy as sire. He was a bull for
which Webster paid 1950 gns. at
the recent Abington dispersal,
namely Abington Graphic, by
Gratitude of Fordhouse (imp.).
Womenfolk have a big say in
Aberdeen-Angus circles (they
always turn up in force at breed
society functions), and it was
interesting to see Currawidgen
Sinbad, from Mrs. M. J.
Sanderson’s stud, win in the
senior class as well as reserve
senior championship. Sinbad,
incidentally, is a grandson of
Mulben Embassy (imp.). H. E. A.
and V. White, of Belltrees,
Scone, making their first trip to
Brisbane, scored third with Bell-
trees Sunbeam. Another new-
comer was Nailsworth Farms, of
Wallacia. Colonel Harold White
had a big team, but they had
not been stalled and too much
rain, proved too great a handicap
in their preparation.
Shorthorns
A quarter of a century ago
there were more Shorthorns on
Brisbane Showground than all
other breeds combined, but the
red, white and roans have only
a minor place today, and the
Shorthorn Society, whose head-
quarters are in Melbourne, does
little to push the breed in the
northern State, Queensland
branch is. starved of finance at
a time when the nation is crying
out for beef, and Shorthorns
still comprise a big proportion
of the big herds in the north.
Victorians, however, played a
big part in this year’s Shorthorn
section. W. R. Ross, of that
State, did the judging, and the
methodical way in which he
places his cattle is always an
education. J. Kemelfield, a Mel-
bourne businessman, spent £2lO
air-freighting three bulls from
his Wongala stud —all sons of
the great breeding bull Chapel-
ton Ambassador (imp.), Won-
gala Bounty took senior cham-
pion honors, and with his two
team-mates had a walk-away win
in the group class. Starritt Bros,
crossed two borders to make a
Brisbane debut. The Queens-
land stud of H. C. and J. C.
Taylor won reserve senior
championship jyith Xuranville
warra Radiant 64th, last year’s
Brisbane champion, also domi-
ciled at Netherby. A. Lang-
more, of Prospect stud, Jondar-
yan, had the male junior and re-
serve junior champions (poll
sons of tht 1948 Sydney Short-
horn champion, Coonong
0.8. E.), also champion and
junior champion heifers.
Beating Sheep-fly.
“C.S.”: G. R. Moule, Direc-
tor of Sheep Husbandry, Queens-
land Department of Agriculture
and Stock, said that during the
recent fly-wave all properties
which had entire flocks treated
with the Mules operation
recorded maximum losses of be-
low 10 per cent. Those on
which the Mules operation had
not been used recorded losses of
from 25 per cent, to 40 per cent.
Moule agreed that total losses/
did not necessarily constitute an
accurate guide to the protection
afforded by Mulesing; ewes
were lost from milk-fever and
pregnancy toxaemia, and some
sheep were lost from bogging
and poison plants ; but the fact
remained that losses in Mules-
treated flocks had been less than
half those in flocks which had
not been Mulesed.
When the Mulesing was com-
bined with spraying against body
strike outstanding results were
obtained. Moule took one case
at random: On March 21 a
flock of 750 Mulesed ewes, with
eight months’ wool, two years
and over, and 500 lambs, four
to five months, were sprayed
with 0.05 per cent. B.H.C. from
ears to tail, using one quart per
sheep, which wafs applied through
a garden-hose nozzle fitted to a
jetting plant, working at 1301 b.
pressure per square inch. /They
were inspected on April 17,
when 40 strikes were recorded
away from untreated areas.
The flock was resprayed on
April 17, and when inspected on
April 25 no strikes were
recorded. Body-strike occurred
on 15. per cent, of the remainder
of the sheep between March 31
and April 25, during which
period Sin. of rain fell. No
breech-strike occurred in any of
the Mules - treated animals,
although the lambs were
affected. ,
Salt for Worms?
“J.J.H.”: Much has been said
for and against the use of salt for
sheep. Even more has been
and written about the use of
beer for man —and in their long-
range effects on man and animal
there is some similarity.
But of all the millions of
claims made for beer, its toxic
powers on internal parasites
have never been stressed to any
extent. Nevertheless, if it were
used as a sheep-drench it might
possibly have quite a beneficial
effect on the health of the
animal —even more so than salt.
If some philanthropic indi-
vidual would only make avail-
able a mob of sheep—and a suit-
able quantity of beer —the
C.5.1.R.0. might run a full-
scale field trial; in fact, such an
inducement might prove the
solution to their staff-shortage
problem. There would be no
difficulty in getting sufficient salt.
Though scientists claim that
salt is of little value to sheep in
Australia it has a definite value
as a carrier for various other
minerals that will benefit stock.
Ground limestone and bone-
flour by themselves would not
attract sheep, but mixed with salt
the animals will soon take to the


The Manufacturers, Distributors and Agents of
f
The World’s Most Economical Tractors announce a
% ,% v*
Sensational Price Reduction
on
Now You Can START Saving Money
SAVE OVER £lOO ON PURCHASE PRICE ... THEN KEEi
ON SAVING AT THE RATE OF £l5O EVERY YEAI
This is the way to do it!
0
UTPUT at our Springvale plant has reached, and will continu
to maintain, a record high level. As a result, costs on a maximui
production basis have been revised to permit the passing of a SUE
STANTIAL REDUCTION IN K.L. BULLDOG’S SELLIN(
PRICE. Thus, in these days of shortages and high prices in so man
lines, K.L. has taken the lead to bring within the reach of every farmc
the unique money-saving features for which the simple single cylin ei
Crude Oil BULLDOG engine is world famous.
So take this opportunity to save right from the very moment yo
purchase your new K.L. BULLDOG. Save a big lump sum on t
initial purchase price. Then, year after year, enjoy the benefits o
saving from £l5O to £lBO per year on the running costs of kerosene
petrol and diesel tractors. For K.L. BULLDOG is no less than
wonderful investment that pays back your initial out ay, in actua cas
saved on running costs, in from 7 to 1U years o
operation.
The News is Oat! The rash is on NO H
for early deliveries! See your Local
or:-
INTEBBTATE DISTmBUTORS Sydne
N.S.W.; Hangar, Gedye & MallochUta., gpe ncer St., Mel
VICTORIA: K.t. Tractor Sales Ltd 27-31 Currie Si
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co. td £ e^i 8 (W.A.) Pt
Adelaide. WESTERN Distributors Pt
Ltd.. 349 William St., Perth. TASMANIA. Tract
Etd. 233 Elizabeth St., Hobart. ■ QCEENi
Ptv T.tri.. 121 Brunswick St., Vauey,
lick and the salt content can be
decreased gradually. Other
minerals such as copper, iron,
cobalt, iodine, etc., could also
be conveyed in similar manner.
But while the general health
of the sheep would probably be
improved by the right type of
mixed lick it would not kill
worms. It would enable the
sheep to stand up to a certain
amount of worm infestation, and
a healthy adult sheep in a favor-
able season can carry some
species of worms and keep its
condition, but in a wet year like
the present all the salt in the
world would not save a weaner.
In Europe and America, a lick
composed of salt and pheno-
thiazine has kept sheep healthy,
but here again salt was merely
the carrier of the drug, and un-
fortunately this technique has
not been successful in Australia.
Worms and Drenches.
“Ngaduri”: Though pheno-
thiazine is the best treatment for
worms in all stock at the
moment it will soon have to be
replaced by something else
which, in its turn, will be as
effective as phenothiazine was at
first. Phenothiazine does not
lose its strength, but worms —
sheep-worms particularly —are
gradually becoming immune to
it.
Those which either have a
natural immunity or are not
killed by the first dose are the
most virile and the best breeders.
Hence the mistake of trusting
too much to one drench. Ideal
treatment is to drench first with
one of the old drenches —blue-
stone-nicotine, bluestone-arsenic
or carbon tetrachloride, which-
ever suits the specific worm you
are trying to eradicate—arid
then give the follow-on drench
with pheno., or the other way
round.
Never give the same dose
twice running. Worms immune
to one specific have a good
chance of being immune to two
doses of it; but you’d be un-
likely to find one worm immune
to two or three different mix-
tures. My best results have
always been from this treatment
and running the sheep into a
spelled paddock immediately
after drenching. The paddock
needs to have been rested at
least three weeks in autumn and
winter. After the clean-up
rotational grazing is a big help
in beating the worms.
Banana Fibre.
“Keekwun”: Much is written
about vegetable-fibre production
in Australia, always of some new
plant like cannas. Yet every
year thousands of tons of fibre
rots in Queensland and northern
N.S.W., enough to bag our entire
wheat crop.
Banana fibre makes intensely
strong Manila rope, but I have
yet to hear of any being pro-
cessed in Australia. In banana
districts tons of it are used as a
mulch between the rows.- When
a plantation is chopped out the
plants are bulldozed to the fence-
lines, where they encourage the
growth of weeds. There is noth-
ing else to do with the stuff. It
won’t burn and takes months to
rot.
Processing should be simple.
Throw a green banana stalk to
a pen of ducks and it will be re-
duced to fibre in 10 minutes. The
sap, an indelible brown stain,
may be useful.
Thistle Baits.
“Pat O’Day”: Prepare the
black thistle-root baits as fol-
lows: Dig the roots before the
plants start to run to seed. Trim
off the thin hair-roots. Wash
dirt from roots and cut them
into baits. Place baits into a can
and give them a brisk wash, then
drain off the water. Don’t touch
the baits with the hands after
this.
When the water has drained
off shake the baits together and
put two tablespoons of sugar on
them and let them stand for 12
hours. Then shake them up and
let the syrup drain off. Let them
dry until the ends show signs of
cracking.
When the baits are just a little
sticky atld to two level tea-
spoons of ground or powdered
strychnine. Shake well and let
dry some more. About half an
hour before baits are to be set
add 50 drops of rabbit decoy.
Cover with a clean bag until
ready to put out.
Dry weather is necessary for
effectiveness in bait-poisoning.
When the grass starts to dry off
after spring the thistle-root bait
will be palatable to the rabbit.
Virus Fails.
“0.D,”: Myxomatosis virus
failed to exterminate rabbits in
recent trials by the C.5.1.R.0. at
Gunbower (Vic.). Rabbits were
inoculated, developed the disease
and died. But no spread of
disease as an epidemic resulted,
nor was there any observable
reduction in rabbit numbers.
The experiment was designed
to test the virus as an alterna-
tive to fumigants for wiping out
rabbits in a warren. Earlier and
extensive trials showed the limi-
tations of the virus as a possible
control agent, the chief one
being the poor spreading power
or contagiousness of the infec-
tion. Nevertheless, some be-
lieved that the virus might re-
quire less labor than a fumigant
in high-carrying country heavily
infested with rabbits where indi-
vidual and, if necessary, re-
peated treatment of warrens
might be economic and practic-
able.
Further trials to examine the
performance of the virus under
different conditions are planned.
Dehorning Calves.
“Jonman”: Best method is to
prevent growth of horns. When
the calf is very young (a day to
five days old) snip the hair from
the horn-bud and button in a
circular patch about iin. in
diameter. The area surrounding
the patch should be smeared with
vaseline or lard, taking care not
to grease the actual hom-bud.
Rub a caustic soda-stick which
has been previously moistened
with firm pressure on to the
horn-bud for about a minute; a
definite indentation should be
made in the bud.
Keep the calf in a dry shed,
otherwise rain may cause the
caustic to spread down over the
head.
Many horn-buds are removed
with a penknife. The caustic
pencil, if used properly, need
not be repeated. When using it,
wrap the end held in the hand
in thick paper to protect the
skin.
Hints for the Farm.
“Pat O’Day”: When green-
feed is fed to sheep it should
not be stacked in a large mass,
as it will become heated and
may cause bloat. Spread it out
in long lines or wide circles and
allow it to wilt before the sheep
are put on it.
“Rooster”: When planning
water-supplies it’s wise to allow
for several dry months a year.
An average cow consumes from
10 to 15 gallons of water per
day—a big drain when levels are
low. Where dams are in use
they should be fenced in, using a
windmill to pump water to the
various paddocks. Cows con-
taminate dam water if allowed
free access, besides getting under-
belly mud - plasters when the
water recedes, entailing extra
work at milking-time.
“Sundowner”; When dealing
with tetanus (mostly seen in
horses), Victorian Department of
Agriculture emphasises that the
animal should be put in a place
where it cannot knock itself.
Then they advise opening up the
wound and irrigating thoroughly
with an antiseptic such as hydro-
gen peroxide. To relieve spasms
inject 100 to 200 c.cs. of 25 per
cent, magnesium sulphate. The
department warns against use
of anti-tetanus serum once symp-
toms have developed, but points
out that the serum is valuable
when castration or docking is to
be done or when a horse has sus-
tained an injury likely to lead
to tetanus. In such cases full
protection for three weeks can
be given by an injection at little
cost.
“Agric”: Benzene hexa-
chloride, 20 per cent., has been
found a sure deterrent to wire-
worms, common in many
districts in Queensland follow-
ing heavy rains. The dust mixes
readily with fertilisers. In the
Mackay cane area 101 b. of
B.H.C. dust is used per acre at
planting-time.
“Big Billy”: To avoid black-
spot of vine, swabbing or spray-
ing of affected canes should be
done with a mixture comprising
201 b. of sulphate of iron, 81b. of
sulphuric acid (commercial) and
lOgal. of water. Pour acid over
iron in enamel or earthenware
container and add water slowly.
“C.A.A.”: Cauliflowers sown
now should be given some pro-
tection against late frosts. Pre-
pare the bed in a sunny position
and place on it a bottomless box.
Sow thinly in the box and cover
lightly with a mixture of finely-
sieved compost and sharp sand.
Place glass over the box, but
remove as soon as seedlings
appear. Transplant into a large
frame when about 2in. high.
When sufficiently large plant out
to a larger bed.
“Bill C.”: Fm speaking for
a lot of blokes in saying that I
haven’t time for chasing pests
continuously. All I can do is
trap, snare and poison vigor-
ously whilst the wallabies or
rabbits are seriously damaging
my cane. When I’ve thinned
them out I let up. It doesn’t pay
me to go after the few that re-
main after a long campaign.
Anyway, most of these survivors
have become too experienced to
fall to any of my tricks.


frusaber
*3
(r
GUARANTEED, NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
£ AVIA/A
17-JEWELLED
SWISS MASTERPIECES
&
WITH THE
NON-MAGNETIC
ESCAPEMENT
at
LA VIM A
WATCHES
FOUNDED I 8» * VILLERET. SUISSE
ƒ
>y
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modem high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra,
ROOM-ONLY RATES:
Single Rooms—
From 9/6 ' per night
Doable Rooms—
From 18/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“ METROPOLE ”
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
'■r-t /.
in
i
111 1! 11
to
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL ERIC JOHN KELLY, or any person
knowing of the whereabouts of the, said
Eric John Kelly, who is 36 years of age,
sft. llin. in height, with fair hair, and
slight sear on his forehead, please com-
municate with his father, J. D. KELLY,
of Hallett. South Australia, who will in-
form Eric John Kelly of something to
his considerable advantage. The matter
is urgent.
Statutory Notice to Next-of-kin.
RE MARY ANN COLBRAN, nee Mary
Ann Charles, late of Morven in the State
of Queensland, Widow, deceased. To
JOHN CHARLES, ROBERT CHARLES,
MRS. BENNELL (or Brennell or Brunell),
and MRS. ANNIE McQUIRE, and any
other person or persons claiming by,
through or under them, or under the
abovenamed deceased or by derivative title
or otherwise howsoever. —NOTICE is
hereby given to all persons claiming to be
next-of-kin of the abovenamed MARY
ANN COLBRAN, nSe Mary Ann Charles,
late of Morven in the State of Queensland,
deceased, who died at Charleville, in the
said State, on the seventh day of August,
1945, and any person or persons claiming
through or under them by derivative title
or otherwise howsoever are hereby
required to forward proof of his relation-
ship to the PUBLIC CURATOR. Brisbane,
on or before the Thirtieth day of Sep-
tember, 1950. Notice is also hereby given
that after the expiration of the last-
mentioned date the Public Curator will
proceed to distribute the assets of the
said deceased amongst the parties entitled
thereto having regard only to the claims
of which he shall have had notice. Hated
at Brisbane this Fourteenth day of June,
1950. —ALAN FORD, Public Curator,
Brisbane.
TO DAO
HAPPY* FATHERS OAV
AND MANY OF 'EM
WBSs
’JfS: "
hi - •
/#
& —t
i* 1 -
ii,
jim p/fujps
1 *;/?
i
ONLY
£7.5
Here's why even the
"toughest" dads
get a closer shave
with the 3-minute
Philishave.
#
SHAVING HEAD:
The wafer-thin head of
Ph/Tishave has scientifi-
cally designed, angu-
lated slots which guide
EVERY hair info the
cutter.
l-fl
6-BLADED CUTTER;
The 6-bladed, rotary
action cutter whim
round at 3,000 r.p.m.
It cuts off every hair
smoothly, closely
without drag.
PRESSURE SPRING:
A special spring keeps
the honed blades of the
cutter in close, even
contact with the shav-
ing head, so ensuring
that the blades are
self-sharpened.
f
xl V-'.
GRIP-MOULDED
BODY:
Phllishave's grip-
moulded body fils
snugly Into the hand.
You can share at any
angle and In any
direction.
sjnujiu-f oi a
ROTARY ACTION
ELECTRIC SHAVER
Famous as Philips Lamps
JJP6-50
GUARD/
PROTECTA '
Sitt RiglticA.
TILL
If f
Suitable foe ererj type ot b " ,ln '“ llj t>" 111 '
all Sale*. Credit*. Parent, etc. »* fu J, u.ulH
pleasing In appearance. »' n0 (ji ‘
appeKrabva.
' and literature ta ,
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty- L •
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
}i>trAn«ag dgen»—
iYDKHY
MKLBOI’KNE .
IDELAIOK
PEKTH
W. C Pcnfold * C °' Ltd,
Norman WM- » Lld .
Pardon * °°i,
tiockwt Book °' -
**s
wwbbbsbb
WWW
CINZANO
SWEET OR DRY
5cL
r avruH(d
xtvnce
me
mm
mM!i
in her thighs.” He picked up the
park seat to return it, and called
back as he carried it through the
trees. “Show her ypur thighs,
Laura.”
NEEDING no more en-
couragement, the child be-
gan a writhing posturing display
before Dickie Buckle’s widow,
who watched dumbfounded.
“Show her properly, now,”
came a further order from
among the trees.
A couple passing along the
footpath stared incredulously at
this precocious exhibition, and
the woman on the gun cringed
back, fearful of being held
responsible.
“They’re inherited, Mrs.
Buckle,” declared Mr. Wakeley,
returning. “They’re what you
need for jumping, and they’re
what you need for bellringing,
too, say what they like. Hours
on end I could go on ringing the
bell at the Presbyterians and I’d
feel none the worse. D’ye know
why?”
Mrs. Buckle nodded dumbly.
“That’ll do, Laura,” he said
to his granddaughter, who had
apparently gone beyond a re-
hearsed version.
Then he was demonstrating on
his own account, swaying
rhythmically and pulling an
imaginary bell-rope.
“And it’s not only when I’m
ringing the bell for church,” he
confided hoarsely. He ordered
the child out of ear-shot. “You
go on ahead, Laura.” He
craned over Mrs. Buckle, who
was pushing back so hard that
a projecting piece of the gun
pressed painfully into her ba i ck.
Boasting sadly of his grave-
digging duties, he went on; “I
could keep digging and filling-in
for hours, too, when it’s the
other thing.”
His granddaughter was back
at his elbow, listening keenly.
He gave a grim chuckle which
eased out of the corners of his
mouth, and slapped his thigh.
“It’s the strength here that
brings the people out to church,
and it’s the same that puts them
away when it’s the other thing,”
He was exulting in his power.
“And I j sometimes say to my-
self when it’s the other:‘‘Many’s
the time I brought you out to
church when I had the bell-rope
in my hand, and now that I’ve
got tire shovel it’s just about the
same for me.’ ” To demonstrate
his point he began to sway much
as he had done before, but this
time he held an imaginary
shovel. He slapped at his thigh
again. “It’s the power here,
Mrs. Buckle.”
SUDDENLY aware of the
eavesdropping child, he ran
her back roughly. She turned
away, pretending to sulk.
“And when I was a lad I was
jumping everything in sight,” he
boasted, turning again to the
woman on the gun. Log ,
hedges, ditches. Up Central for
my holidays and jumping
boulders from morning to night,
you might say. And that s why
Laura can jump so good.”
Quickly reconciled, the child
put in “There’s a heap of mud
round the corner that I can
jump over, too, isn’t there.
Granddad?”
“It mightn’t be there now,
Laura,” he answered. “They
might have shifted it, but we d
best go round and see or I’ll be
late with the bell.” He
motioned his granddaughter
forward. “Say goodnight to
Mrs, Buckle then.”
The child shrugged towards
the gun, giggling. “Goodnight,
Mrs. Buckle.”
“Goodnight, Mrs. Buckle,”
said Mr. Wakeley. “I’m sorry
about Dickie.” He made this
sound like a personal apology,
and after a last champing sur-
vey of Dickie Buckle’s widow he
took his leave.
The pair of them made for a
hole in the corner of the hedge
and scrambled through. The
child poked her head back to
announce: “You can see me
jump from here.”
“I don’t want to see you
jump.” Mrs. Buckle, thus
asserting herself, derived some
satisfaction from the last look
of dismay with which the child
withdrew.
SHE was alone. She lay back
on the gun-seat and waited
for her scattered thoughts to
settle into a mood more recep-
tive to peace. The sweet smile
was still on her lips as she
stared hopefully into the darken-
ing trees.
Above her a pair of black-
birds were huddled in a dejected
attitude of sleep. The watery
green of the sky had softened
and stars were coming out. The
air was crisp and frosty.
“Jump!” She heard the shout
and handclap, and a moment
later heard it again—evidently
the heap of mud was still there.
Then everything was quiet
again but for the tinkling bell.
Now and then a vehicle would
pass, sweeping the road with its
headlights and illuminating the
underside of leaves so that they
made a moment’s delicate
pageantry. People passing the
park were no longer identifiable ;
there was only scraps of con-
versation to provide unlikely
clues.
Mrs. Buckle was in a more
promising frame of mind when
a bell near by began to ring out
louder and more resonantly than
she had ever heard it. As if
split among the trees, each stroke
quivered for an instant over-
head and then struck with con-
certed impact:
D-e-e-ong! D-e-e-ong! D-e-e-
-ong!
Mr. Wakeley was at work.
THIS was as Dickie had heard
it. She composed herself
and waited. But as she listerled
she realised that something was
going terribly wrong. Far from
instilling peace, the tolling of the
bell was evoking an image of
straining thighs that she strove
vainly to resist. She gave way
to the thought that sometime for
her it would as simply and easily
be “the other thing,” and under
this morbid influence she was
receptive only to an awareness
that the exultant Hell was din-
ning into her mind —the peace
she sought was death.
So long as there was life in
her there could be no final ful-
filment of her desires; there
would be peace only in freedom
from the coveting instinct that
hounded her. And such free-
dom was death.
* D-e-e-ong I D-e-e-ong! D-e-e-
-ong!
Each stroke of Mr. Wakeley’s
bell gathered force over the old
gun and struck down, but there
was only the huddled blackbirds
there to hear it. The woman
who had waited for the bells
was hastening through the trees.
With much of the jumping
child’s vitality in her yet, she fled
from the peace she had envied
Dickie Buckle.


n
m
(fs pboTSAU
That works u ths muscle
And gives a man plenty of dash;
It’s kick, it's scrum, and its bustle.
And a general looking for lash.
In the good old hunt for the
leather.
If a cold you«should have to
endure.
You will soon pull yourself
together
Woods’ Great Peppermint Care.
FLY-JO Sll MOF
AND MANILA
QH
\
Travel on business becomes
a pleasure—and there’s time
to see more of the beauty of
Japan when you fly by fast Q.E.A. service. Japan is only 2 days
from Sydney! You reach Manila, en route, in less than 24 hours
and may stop-over there if desired. Regular services operate by
modem Skymaster, with traditionally good Q.E.A. Steward
Service and quick frozen foods served hot in the air.
Specify Q.E.A* Air Cargo service for your merchandise
—send your mails by air.
Your travel agent will welcome enquiries about special air-sea
Interchange tours.
m mm by
HA
i A B T A S I H PI B I A I B WA Y S
Australia's INTERNATIONAL Airline
w
A century ago the Great Exhibition of 1851
drew visitors to Britain from all over the
world. Next year’s Festival, to commemorate
that event, will in its turn be remembered
a hundred years from now, long after the
headlines of today are forgotten.
The coming Festival is the greatest ever
planned. The 1851 Exhibition w ts confined to
London, and its keynote was industrial pro-
gress; the Festival of Britain I 95 1 ke
spread throughout the United Kingdom and
will put the whole nation on show.
Exhibitions in London, Glasgow and Belfast vdll
tell the story of Britain’s contribution to civilisation
in Science, Invention, Industry and Architecture.
In addition, twenty-three centres throughout
England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland will
hold Festivals of the Arts.
In support of this official programme there will
be something of interest for the visitor to see in
cities, towns and villages all over the country-from
carnivals, exhibitions, pageants and traditional
ceremonies to sporting events of all kinds.
From May to September 195 x > for five P acked
months, wherever he goes the visitor will find
BRITAIN AT HOME TO THE WORLD
Further details of the Festival Programme will be
published in this journal over the next stx months.
cj\
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Old Colonial
Architecture by Hardy Wilson. —4895.
To buy copy of King’s Cross
Calling— 4896.
Journalist, Sydney, wants small fur-
nished flat, moderate rental, near
city. —-4898.
To buy copy of Defeat in the West
by Milton Shulman.—4897.
Information Sought.
If a boxer is knocked down fust
before bell ends round two, and, after
being carried to his corner, fails to
come out for the third, in what round
was he knocked out?
If boxer fails to answer bell for
third round, the knockout is recorded
as in round three. If the boxer, or his
second, informs the referee during the
second-round intermission that he
cannot continue, it is a two-round
knockout. If bell rings for round
three, however, it is a three-round
knockout.
if * * *
Any known case in horse-breeding
records of a mare slipping one of
twins two months before the other
one was bom?
Twins are most rare in the mare,
although in horse-breeding districts
some cases are observed. In about
90 p.c. of cases of twin pregnancies
in the mare the foetuses are slipped
at the eighth to tenth month. Where
the twin foals are carried to the full
term of pregnancy, and are born
alive, some are weak and soon die,
whilst others are strong and healthy.
A case is recorded where a mare
slipped one foal, and some months
later gave birth to a living and
vigorous foal. Such happenings are
extremely rare.
What are pennant fish?
Also known as “diamond trevally”
and “silvery moonfish,” because
of their curious form and coloration,
they have greatly compressed and
deep, angular bodies with long fila-
ments trailing backward from their
dorsal and anal fins. Their form
changes considerably with age, but
they are brilliantly silver at all stages
of growth. The genus includes two
tropical species, ranging throughout
the Indian and Pacific oceans —one
even extends to the Atlantic. They
are allied to the trevally, and occa-
sionally attain a length of nearly five
feet.
* * * *
What was the earliest strike in Aus-
tralian industrial history?
In 1822 an assigned convict in the
Liverpool (N.S.W.) district induced
his fellow-servants to combine for
the purpose of securing higher wages
and increased rations, and in 1824,
in Sydney, several coopers “con-
spired” against their employer’s
interest and attempted to prevent
other mechanics from going on with
their work; but it is not known
whether in either instance the em-
ployees actually went on strike. In
November, 1829, a number of com-
positors in Sydney struck, and publi-
cation of the “Australian” was sus-
pended; from that time there is a
continuous record of disputes leading
to industrial dislocation.
* * * *
What is The America’s Cup in
international yachting ?
A silver cup given, in 1851, by the
Royal Yacht Squadron for a race
for any yachts at Cowes, Isle of
Wight, There were 15 competitors,
and it was won by an American yacht
called The America, of 150 tons. It
has since been offered as an inter-
national prize to any yacht-owner of
another nation who can win it under
certain rather severe rules. Many
unsuccessful attempts have been made
by British yacht-owners in American
waters to bring the trophy back to
England. Sir Thomas Lipton built and
raced no fewer than five yachts. His
Shamrock IV was beaten in 1920, and
after ten years’ interval Shamrock V
failed in 1930. Endeavour (T. O. M.
Sopwith) lost to Rainbow, 1934.
Endeavour H (T. O. M. Sopwith) lost
to Ranger in 1937.
* * * ♦
What are ductless glands?
The function of a gland is the
secretion of an individual product,
which in most cases passes out by
means of a duct; in the case of the
ductless glands, however, the secre-
tion passes into the blood by means
of capillaries or lymphatic vessels.
Examples of ductless glands are the
thyroid, para-thyroid, thymus, spleen
and adrenals. The thyroid gland in
the embryonic condition is connected
with the pharynx, but by degrees this
sac becomes divided from it until at
length it is a distinct body. When the
internal secretion of the thyroid
becomes excessive it may result in
goitre, and when insufficient it may
produce cretinism.
• * ♦ ♦
What is baking-powder made from,
and what is its action?
A substitute for yeast, it is com-
posed of a mixture of tartaric acid
and bicarbonate of soda, a quantity
of flour usually being added to reduce
the strength. When the powder
comes in contact with water, carbonic
acid gas is set free by the decomposi-
tion of the carbonate. The evolution
of this gas when the powder is
kneaded up with dough produces the
porosity which is required to make
the bread light.
* * ♦ *
Some details concerning ferrets?
It is an animal belonging to the
family Mustelidce, other species being
the badger, weasel, otter and polecat.
The ferret is the domesticated albino
variety of the latter animal, both of
them belonging to the genus Putorius.
It is very similar to the wild polecat,
but a little smaller, being about Min.
long, has yellowish-white fur and pink
eyes. Sometimes, however, ferrets
breed with polecats, and the result
is a crossbreed having fur tinged with
brown. The ferret is not altogether
tame, and occasionally it becomes
quite ferocious, exhibiting no affec-
tion whatever. The female ferret
breeds twice during the year, produc-
ing from six to nine young ones each
time, and she has been known to
devour them. Ferrets are used espe-
cially to hunt rabbits and to kill rats.
* ♦ • *
What are the Elgin marbles?
A famous collection of ancient
Greek sculptures brought to England
through the agency of the seventh
earl of Elgin, after whom they are
named, and acquired for the British
Museum in 1816 for £35,000. They
are portions from the frieze of-the
Parthenon and other buildings on the
Athenian Acropolis. Elgin’s act was
denounced as “vandalism,” but if
left these treasures would probably
have been destroyed by the Turks,
who were using the Parthenon for
target practice. The vessel in which
Lord Elgin shipped 250 ft. of the
frieze was shipwrecked, and Elgin
had to pay £74,000 for their recovery.
Brief Answers.
D.M.8.: Cornish Pasty, a collec-
tion of 60 cartoons, was published
privately by the artist, Oswald Pryor,
at 12 Godfrey-terrace, Leabrook
(5.A.)....PJ.P.: The Leaning Tower
of Pisa is the campanile of the
Cathedral of Pisa, in northern Italy,
built at the end of the twelfth century.
It is circular, in eight stories, each
story surrounded with small columned
arcades. It is 181 feet high and leans
some 14 feet from the perpendicular,
part of the inclination dating from
its construction L.R.J.: Some
breeders apply small amounts of a
vegetable oil —peanut oil if procurable
—to the tip of the fleece by pouring
the oil on to a board and patting the
wool with the oi(€d board. The dark
tip if desired can be secured by adding
lampblack to ther'oil. The oil should
be used with caution, as if much is
applied the wool is very unpleasant to
handle....G.C.: T. H. Kelly, 39
Hunter-street, Sydney, and O. T. Lem-
priere and Cos., Ltd., Bowden-street,
Alexandria (N.S.W.), are local buyers.
Export is prohibited, so overseas
metal-buyers would not be interested.
W.G.C.A.: The Thomson River
(Q.) was named by the 'explorer
Edmund Kennedy in 1847, after
Edward Deas Thomson, Colonial Sec-
retary in New South Wales... .R.W.:
(1) Children are cousins. (2) Inbred
hereditary factors not always desir-
able. Chas. Darwin married cousin—
offspring brilliant. (3) Yes... .5.0.5.:
Addresses posted.,. .C.C.: Write
Australian Consul-General, Djakarta,
Indonesia....T.H.: The W.A. gold-
fields area (595,350 square nules),
though primarily given over to gold
and other mining, contributes also to
pastoral output, the area containing
about one-seventh of the sheep and
one-twelfth of the beef cattle of the
State... .S.A.: Jet engines for Aus-
tralian 540 m.p.h. Vampire fighters
are being produced at the Melbourne
factory of Commonwealth Aircraft
Corporation Pty., Ltd P.8.C.:
Motor-vehicles registered in Australia
(excluding defence-service vehicles) at
the end of 1949 totalled 1,301,746,
compared with 1,173,643 at the end
of 1948. New motor-vehicles regis-
tered during 1949 totalled 150,289,
compared with 108,716 for the pre-
ceding year...,J.L.M.: (1) Chemicals
required for hydroponic gardening
are obtainable from Elliott’s and
Aust. Drug Pty., Ltd., Victory House,
Reservoir-street; H. B. Selby, 254 a
George-street; and Townson and
Mercer, Ltd., 23 Lang-street—all
Sydney. (2) A copy of leaflet “The
Growth of Plants in Nutrient Solu-
tions” will be forwarded you if you
write to the chief chemist, Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Farrer-place,
Sydney. #
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile
character) will be taken of com-
munications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken
re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
B.B.: Grieved to note that spring
will be with us soon again T.S.:
Golfing story bunkered N.M.: On
that sar .ple, have to advise sticking
to tank-sinking....A.C.H.: Someone
very much like your swagman has
been met before....F.F.: Basketed,
with the usual ceremony R.D.:
Sincerely regret to hear that the
cooing of the doves disturbs your
early-morning sleep... .8.L.: Why
not go to some more cheerful place
for your inspiration?... .BW McP.:
The stringing-together of questions
and answers usually makes bad verse.
....F.S.: You can’t make an old
yam new by changing the names and
places and tinkering with the end....
C.R.S.: Too much icing and too little
cake... .S.M.: Very thin ice, and you
are a rather laborious skater....
T.W.: Too long and diffuse
F.M.W.; Best advice is to knock off
writing “effusions”' and try writing.
....J.W.H.: Apparently you ran out
of paper.* Glad of it....C.8.: Un-
real people floundering through in-
credible episodes... .W.F.McP.: So
many are writing that sort of thing.
....A.T.C.: However you may feel
about it, the verse wouldn’t make
others feel with you H.H.:
Weighed in short in plot, dialogue
and style.... .R.S.: You break nearly
all the rules in a form in which rules
are particularly important....
N.M.P.: A thought, but it doesn’t get
through the fog of words M.H.8.:
Takes a rare anecdote to be wrapped
up in a yard and a half of verse....
J.C.: Reads as if you have a long
and rocky road ahead of you
T.H.P.: Anaemic lovers swapping
hackneyed vows E.T.8.: Started
like a champion, finished like a cab-
horse K.G.: You merely shadow-
sparred with the idea... .F.T.R.: Miles
and miles too 10ng... ,R.N.: Effort
required to produce the corpse in the
opening paragraph exhausted you.
.... Bellerive: A charming couple: —■
D.W.H.: Note your intention “to
write occasional contributions to The
Bulletin,” but you’ll have to write
better ones than the samples for-
warded N.G.: Thanks, but can’t
really find space for “a weekly lec-
turette dealing with some phase of
marital differences”... .A.T.: The
fleecing shanty-keeper has been over-
done D.E.: When stamps don’t
accompany MSS. it is taken as a hint
that the writer prefers oblivion. So,
if unaccepted, the effort is destroyed.
....G.G.. Stale and dreary.
THE FLEA AND THE BUD.
Said a flea to a bug:
“Good morning, plop.”
“Ho'fy do?,” said the bug,
“Your out early, hop.”
“Early or late Is all
The same to me,
I like a frolic,” said
The active flea.
“No doubt to you
I’m only a mug,
I’m jsleek when I like,”
Retorted the bug.
“I can tumble, leap
And capefl with glee.
I’m a born acrobat.”
Boasted the flea.
“I no,” said the bug,
“Your a clever sport,
But not to clever
To be often caught.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2 Id. per line.
Ordinary Justice!
The other day the Commonwealth
Government Statistician published a new
set of figures relating to cost of living.
Included in the figures were particulars
regarding rents, food and groceries, and
clothing. The average overall increase in
the price index since 1939 was about 68
per cent. Food and groceries have in-
creased by about 63 per cent, and cloth-
ing by 174 per cent. Rents by 1 per cent.
In the last N. S. Wales election cam-
paign the Government made a song-and-
dance about the success of its rent-
pegging legislation, and claimed that a
change of Government would enable
landlords to make all the hay on which
they had missed out over the past 10
years. The Liberal - Country - party
alliance stepped warily—disclaiming any
intention of doing anything that might
result in increased rents.
Why this disinclination to increase
rents? Because rent-paying voters out-
number rent-collecting voters very con-
siderably.
The greater number of householders in
this State are rent-payers—folks who rely
upon private enterprise to provide the
roofs over their heads. In many instances
they prefer private enterprise to provide
these roofs rather than the State because
State rents are high, and experience
indicates that the State is a tough land-
lord who cannot be tossed in any Fair-
rent Court or defied in respect to relative
owner-rights to tenant-rights before
magistrates in courts of petty sessions!
The Labor Government appears to
think if is being pretty smart in pegging
at least one section of pssential costs even
if it cannot peg any others. The fact
that landlords have to eat and wear
clothes either doesn’t appeal to the Gov-
ernment —or it is too dumb to realise it.
So far as the Government is concerned,
owners of , rented property may die or
sell out or go away. ..
Nevertheless, a census of landlords
would reveal a surprising number of aged
persons and widows who rely upon the
income from one or two cottages or a
pair of semis to sustain them in their old
age. These people invested in real-estate
during their working lives in the belief
that, by taking steps to provide for their
old age, they were acting as good citizens.
The McGirr Government has disillu-
sioned them.
While wages are so high—so very
much higher than in 1939—it would be
surely only ordinary justice to permit a
controlled increase in rents. It would be
not only common justice, but common-
sense. Anyone who doubts that should
inquire into the housing conditions
existing in France as a result of a rent-
pegging policy adopted in 1914, and
adhered to ever since by a succession of
Governments that placed votes before the
national interest. Further examples may
be cited from England and Scotland,
where property-owners are giving their
properties to the tenants or to the local
authorities because income from rents is
not sufficient to pay the rates/ let alone
other outgoings.
Ominous signs for the future of Aus-
tralian housing are to be seen in the
cessation by private enterprise of the
construction of houses to rent —except
for blocks of flats, which cannot provide
the homes required by good Australian
families. Governments cannot take over
the job thus relinquished for many
reasons. Private landlords provide much
more than houses for the community.
They provide the finance which in turn
pays for the roads, wajter, light and all
other essential services and municipal
amenities. Government instrumentalities
•pay no rates and constitute a burden
upon any community which nurtures
them. — Jindivick (N.S.W.).
The Atom-bomb
The exact number of Allied lives saved
by dropping the atom-bomb on Japan
in 1945 may be open to question, but
the fact that a lot of Allied lives were
saved is not. The justification for using the
bomb was simply that it did save Allied
lives at the expense of 50,000 or 100,000
(or whatever it was) Japanese lives—
which does amount to saying (B. 2/8/’5O)
that “a nation at war, to save the lives of
its own soldiers, is'entitled to use any
means to break down enemy resistance.”
Qf course it is* We didn’t (because we
couldn’t) deny the Jap the right to use
all that lay within his power to beat us,
and “the acceptance of this right” does
mean that there can be no true war
criminality. There never has been;
except as it exists, after the war, in the-
minds of the victors, and consequently
“trials of persons- accused, of such would
be farcical travesties of justice” is a
statement on which it would be difficult
to improve.
The reason for these so-called trials
is that we object strongly to the revolting
treatment meted out to our men taken
prisoner. The Jap apparently didn’t care
what happened to the men we took
prisoner, which was to our disadvantage,
and a further justification, if anything, for
stopping the war as soon as possible.
Does “Castlereagh” really think that
it would have been better not to have
dropped those bombs? Is it the number
of deaths that worries him or the manner
of it? Most of those who died died in
a flash, some hours later, and a few
lingered for months. Pre-atom-bomb
warfare offered far more interesting and
diverse ways to die. I suppose “C.”
knows of men blasted out of bunkers by
flamethrowers, of 1000 men trapped below
in a blazing fiat-top, of submarines that
don’t come up* of the bloody ruins of
Coventry apd Hamburg, and the depth-
less despair of a ravaged civilian popula-
tion.
The atom-bomb has nothing more
horrible to offer than what humanity has
RELIGION
THRIUers
already inflicted on itself a million times
since Prometheus. Its only novelties were
the size of its blow and the decisive
rapidity with which it ended humanity’s
worst war. — Edx (Vic.).
Membership of Unions
I agree that, in the main, wharflaboring
is laboring pure and simple (B. 19/ 7/’50);
but not that “in other trade-unions admis-
sion to membership is normally granted
to any applicant of good character pos-
sessing the required standard of skill.”
That may apply to some unions,
notably the A.W.U., but to join other
unions the “outsider,” however skilled,
is battling. Most unions are tom between
a desire to increase their membership,
for strength, and a determination to limit
it to a number which will givei them a
bargaining lever in good times and a
better chance of employment in bad.
That is, also, the answer to “Ricki’s”
very sensible plea to youngsters to accept
apprenticeships rather than highly-paid
laboring jobs. Here again the available
positions are limited by union demands.
In every trade, for each apprentice there
must be a certain number of journeymen
tradesmen, and only in exceptional
circumstances will this rule be waived.
It is not applied in the interests of the
apprentices—three times the number of
lads could learn a trade in the same time
—but in an attempt to ensure employ-
ment for tradesmen. The rigid adherence
to this rule during the depression drasti-
cally limited the number of tradesmen
available when war broke out, and com-
pletely excluded, for most of the 1912-18
age-group lads, the possibility of acquir-
ing a trade.
That attitude may have had some justi-
fication during the depression—as far as
any selfish, short-range policy can be
justified—but the rule should be relaxed
now, if only to make up some of the lee-
way lost during the ’3os. — Kelmscott
(W.A.).
Noise
I live alongside a man who has a junk-
yard. He also keeps fowls, and seems
to suffer from insomnia, because long
before dawn is ushered in by his roosters
crowing I am often awakened by boards
and sheets of .iron being dumped
around. - ~
Next door to me, on the other side,
lives the owner of a home-made motor-
vehicle. There always seems to be some-
thing the matter with it which his per-
sistent night-and-day tinkering not only
fails to rectify but apparently intensifies.
He has to run the engine with frequency
for hours at a stretch before he can get
it to backfire often enough to satisfy
him. At other times I gather the impres-
sion that he is practising shunting. He
also owns, and teases, I suspect, a shriek-
ing cockatoo.
Kids use the street as a playground,
and added to the din they make is that of
motor-bikes and lorries tearing up and
down it, plus the barking of dogs in-
numerable. I long for peace and quietude
myself, which, however, may merely in-
dicate that there is something wrong with
me. Perhaps it is a healthy sign to make
a lot of noise. For having mentioned a
few times that I detest it 1 soon became
aware that X was regarded as being a
“ratbag.” For one noise-hater to raise
his puny voice in expostulation when
entirely surrounded and overwhelmed by
noise-lovers would, of course, needless to
say, be utterly useless.
One can’t, unless perhaps affluent, move
nowadays because the search for some-
where else to live might easily last for
years. The only vacation I ever had from
the din, by the way, was once when I
became deaf for a week or two.
There is, I have been led to believe, an
Anti-noise League, but what its activities
are, if any, I have not as yet succeeded
in finding out. If they include a hostel
or a sanatorium in which the perpetually
dinned, even if impecunious, might be
permitted to recuperate I’d willingly help
with the work of the establishment in
return for my keep. Meanwhile, perhaps
“someone could tell me how, easily, pain-
lessly and without it costing much, I
could become completely deaf again.—
Drong (N.S.W.).
The Household' Budget
Back in the days when wages were £2
a week, my father paid 7s. 6d. a wetek
rent, reared a family of seven and saved
enough to put a deposit on a hoqse which
later became his own—and we were all
well fed and adequately, if not flashly,
clothed.
These days, with the basic wage at £7
a week (and the earnings of many un-
skilled workers ranging around the £lO
mark) there is great difficulty in balanc-
ing family budgets, and the cause of the
struggle is pinned wholly on the terrific
prices of household commodities.
But, although prices have spiralled to
ridiculous levels, there are many other
things playing havoc with the family
budget. First place, most of the toilers
on £lO a week consider themselves to be
in the big “dough” and, without giving
any thought to the depreciated value of
the £1 or the falseness of their prosperity,
they spend more liberally, have a few
extra pots and a few more bob on the
races. The crowded hotel bars, the large
attendances at the races and the increased
volume of business done by the bookies
all indicate that there is either much more
surplus money about these days or that
men are spending more than they should.
Then the balance of the money that
reaches the home is handled less care-
fully than it was in the days when house-
wives footed the bills and had a bit to
spare from their £2 a week —in those
days, if the baker dared raise the price
of bread by one halfpenny a loaf, the
yeast bottles would appear on the kitchen
shelves and the majority of the house-
wives would make their own bread until
they succeeded in forcing the price down
again.
In most homes the tin-opener has never
been used more and the needle less than
at present. The way in which delicatessen
shops have sprung up of late years and
the ever-increasing varieties of canned
foods stocked by grocers go to show
how the ready-prepared meal is preferred
to the kitchen stove —despite the cost.
In this town a saveloy was rarely
obtainable 40 years ago, and such a thing
as ready-cooked meat would have shocked
the housewife of that era. Now, although
the town shows no marked increase in (
population, it supports four shops
handling “smallgoods,” while five grocers
also dabble in the same lines.
Laundries, dry-cleaners and clothes-
menders receive ready patronage today
with work that used to Be done in the
home. All these costs are extras—extras
that did not come into the picture when
people managed well and reared large
families on £2 a week —and the trouble
is that they are not reckoned with when
a new basic wage is being struck.—
Beau Forte (Vic.).
Asia and Us
“Wilken” (B. 26/7/’5O) rightly refuses
to believe that the majority of Australians
are weakening in their White Australia
policy. The plain facts contradict the
Gallup Poll figures. Australians have
been educated to believe that they have
an exclusive right to their vast territory
because they saw it first. Not only do
they object to sharing their island con-
tinent with colored Asians; they give a
very cold reception to white Europeans,
and treat even their British kith and kin
as social, physical and mental inferiors.
Coalminers, wharfies, seamen, engineers
and many other classes of workers are
opposed to adding to their numbers from
any source, and would certainly close
their books to “Comrades” from the East.
European musicians, doctors and scientists
are forbidden to follow their professions
and are being employed as laborers.
No doubt thousands of casual Aus-
tralians are willing to admit that all men
are brothers in a general sense, but they
would jib at receiving them as brothers-
in-law in a particular sense. Very few
would deliberately vote to import Asiatics
of any race on terms of social, industrial
or domestic equality.—Y. N. (S.A.),
Apprenticeships
“Ricki” makes some good points in
his par. on jobs and wages (B. 19/7/’5O),
but, he’s not altogether right when he
says that thpse who scorn the low pay of
apprenticeship and take the higher-paid
unskilled jobs lose in the long run.
I served an apprenticeship and worked
for a good many years in a big industrial
plant, and while I was there many men
who were working as tradesmen’s
laborers attended technical-college classes
at night and were “put on the tools” at
the same rate of pay as men who’d served
five years of apprenticeship on a few bob
a week.
One man I know started as an elec-
trician’s laborer, passed the technical-
school exams, obtained his wiremans
certificate, and has now built up a
prosperous business as an electrical con-
tractor.
Unlike some tradesmen, who resent
these “dilutees” competing with them, A
say good luck to them —if they have the
will and the ability to cope with the
practical work and the evening classes,
then they deserve any rewards offering-
For many of them who started worK
when I did —in the middle of the de-
pression—it wasn’t a matter of choosing
between an apprenticeship and an un-
skilled job; it was a matter of taking
anything that offered. Taswegian
(Tas.).
Ammonium Sulphate
Press references to the American
bombing of an ammonium-sulphate pl^
at. Konan in North Korea implied th
North Korea was the only source
supply to Australian growers and seem
to blame a threatened shortage
supplies of ammonium sulphate on
Americans. Actually Australia P roV ' f
Australian sugargrowers and
farmers with most of the ammom.
sulphate they need. Great Britain is
next-most-accessible source, and a
that comes the rest of the WorlOt
Soldier Wance (Vic.).


A New and Fascinating Novel . . .
THE CHINESE CAMELLIA
This is a novel of character that records the impact made by the
arrival of a Chinese girl in an unhappy family. The Camellia, as she
comes to be called, is a silent figure, remote and serene, but her coming
to the Bent household is explosive in its effects. The secret turmoils in
each of them are brought to the surface by her influence. By gesture and
motion, by her clothes and her painted face, are revealed the cl
subtlety and power of her alien presence.
HELEN HENEY
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS —9/6d.
COLLINS
ff
YOU
can order —on apprt
• “Diseases of Livestock,” by Hungerfotd (42/-)
® Merino Wool," by Fegan ( 1 7/6)
® The Merino, Past, Present and Pr<
Austin (37/6)
from
by
GRAHAME BOOK COMPANY
39-49 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
DYMOCKS CATALOGUE J
of New and Recent) Books
Includes Books for the Whole Family ,
Send for our August Catalogue. It
has an excellent selection of books
listed ; 32 pages of interest to the
discriminating reader.
For your convenience our Catalogue
is now published each month. Ask
to have your name placed on our
mailing list.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD.
424 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE BL 3611
BOOKS YOU’LL ENJO
GREEN MOUNTAINS AND
CULLENBENBONG,
by Bernard O’Reilly
Two enthralling books about Aus-
tralia, published for the first time in
one volume. Beautifully illustrated.
17/6 (post 1/-)
LEG-IRONS ON
by James Fra
The stimulating storj
was gaoled at Gouibut
round the world, ar
abroad as a wrjter/;'-
>wyer.
jt a man who
adventured
won fame
(post Bd.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LT
Booksellers, Publishers, Librarians
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
Just arrived in Australia, a new BRITISH publish!
NEWNES’ PICTORIAL K
A DELIGHT FOR ALL CHILDREN .... OF INESTIMBLE
•10 Volumes • Magnificent Illustrations •Fa
PICTORIAL KNOWLEDGE has been written by eminent Britii
attract children to acquire knowledge of the risilt kind in
age of four onwards, YET THE BOOKS
ement
iDGE
'O PARENTS
' Text
to heln and
HAVE INTEREST AND VALUE RIGHT
UP TO ADULT AGE.
44 wonderful sections, coverfflg subjects
from the ABC to Atomic Energy, with
special questions and answers section, factual
index and 5 years’ FREE advisory service.
To GEORGE N
I 3rd Floor, 110
‘Please send me i
( easy-terms paymei
| Name (Mr. Mrs. M:
{Address ~
j 8.8.50
lia) ,Pty. Ltd.,
iydney, N.S.W.
-Ider and cash or
iL KNOWLEDGE.
A Selection of PENGUINS and
A BULLET IN THE BALLET Brahm
COLD COMPORT FARM Stella
POET’S PUB Erie L
MATHEMATICIAN’S DELIGHT W. Vf.
SCIENTIST IN RUSSIA Eric
THE PYRAMIDS OF EGYPT I. E. S?:
THE PHYSIOLOGY OP SEX KennetJr
MEMOIRS OP A BRITISH AGENT Bruce
THE HORSE’S MOUTH Joyce
PENGUIN ISLAND Amatol
THE WORST JOURNEY IN THE WORLD A. Che!
A SHORT HISTORY OP THE WORLD H G
Add 3d. per copy postage. Write for free list of ah
THE PENGUIN BOOKSHOP
10 HOSKING PLACE (OEE 86 PITT STREET),' SYDNEY
ANS
toon
2/-
V-
-2/-
»/-
?/-
3/2
3/2
*/-
Stock
a doctor told her she was “unsatisfied,”
and by degrees she remedied this defect
with the aid of a studious young man
who was writing a book against the land-
lords of Hungary. Having been duly
imprisoned for writing the book, the
young man is taken to the Dukay palace
and forgiven, seeing that whatever little
Zia wants her father insists upon her
having; then Zia marries him and gives
away her estates ; symbol of the aristo-
cracy still leading the way; yea, even
unto Socialism.
If one were asked to distribute buns,
one would have to say that Miss Cald-
well’s book is best constructed, while Mr.
Zilahy’s is most colorful, and Miss Gaye’s
is most romantic. Marks might be taken
off for the use of diaries by Mr. Z. and
Miss G.; however, Miss G.’s diary in
which the grandmother tells the story of
her unmarried mother who, at last dis-
covered, tells her long-lost daughter to
come to see her and assures her of a
warm welcome, and then sets fire to the
house and herself —well, it’s something
new on that old subject. And that is
what we should demand from the his-
torical novel-—the rest is history.
The Sfafe of Europe,
The head of Columbia Broadcasting
System in Europe is no doubt a most im
portant personage these days, and Mr
Howard K. Smith, who has compiled in
The State of Europe (Cresset Press
Angus and Robertson) a running repor
on every European country, is describee
on the dust-cover as one of the foremos
correspondents in the world. Ameri
can Press correspondents have been tour-
ing Europe as representatives of what Mr
Smith irreverently calls “the Star-
Spangled Bonanza,” carrying privileges
such as were enjoyed formerly only by
touring royal personages.
The people back home, whose relieJ
money has been flowing (via the Ameri-
can Treasury) across the Atlantic in
more than princely stream, have to be
kept informed on developments in
Europe, where a precarious peace is
maintained only by American fighting-
power and the American dollars. A
band of highly-experienced newspaper-
men like Mr. Smith are assigned to the
continuous inspection of Europe in that
service. They build up expert reputations
by sheer passage of time (that is, by mass
of “reportage”), also by quoting each
other as authorities. They see everybody,
or almost everybody, having passwords
that open all doors. One of them even
has ( an arrangement by which from time
to time he submits a questionnaire to
Stalin. But it is very doubtful—and this
latest book is an instance—whether
Europe is shaking down in just the
fashion they think it should.
Where they have not (like Mr. Howard
K. Smith) a distinct leaning towards the
Communist side of the Iron Curtain —
maybe because their Press-cards won’t
take them there —none of them evince
very much hope for the West, especially
in the long run. And the West is per-
petually surprising them by not collapsing
or resigning the struggle. Just as Moscow
has for four years allegedly been relying
on an economic depression in America,
so apparently American correspondents
ni Europe have been expecting that
Russia would win the “cold war” through
the sheer despair of her opponents. It
is part of their duty—as Washington
would see it, anyway—to play up to the
idea that only the maintained flow of
Marshall Aid funds has saved the game ;
and while this may be broadly true, it
leads them to exaggerate Russian
“potentials.” Mr. Smith, after a long anc
detailed exposition of the theory tha
Eastern Europe must dominate the ole
world’s coming (and brighter) age, con-
cludes : —
I confess to a feeling that there is some-
thing very artificial in [this] thesis. The
rise of the East is going to be very painful
and slow in its isolation from the estab-
lished industrial sources of the world. The
area is still extremely backward, lacks
capital engineers... .managers. Western
Europe’s decline, too, seems absurd and
unreal in face of all its invaluable posses-
sions—its still sound popular morale, its
skilled workers....
—and so on. The point is that Mr.
Smith has hitherto been overlooking just
these things. Having rejected in a
measure his own conclusions, he ends
with the bright idea that Western and
Eastern Europe need each other more
than any other thing for their common
prosperity, and that if Russia will not
make the advance, and Britain hesitates,
then America ought to do so. It is not
quite clear whether America should
proceed by personal example or merely
by exhortation; but “the aim” should
be “a Social Democracy” for Europe,
being “an integration of planned
economies operating in obedience to the
incentives of the people’s welfare and not
to the workings of the profit-motive of
the market.”
From one of “the foremost correspond-
ents in the world” this is gibberish. No
doubt, however, the Kremlin could make
good use of it.
Reviewed Briefly*
Africa Astir: Cyrus Townsend Brady
Jr. (Georgian House). A collection of
photographs of Africa, chiefly of native
life, with letterpress designed to stress
racial and social problems.
* * # *
Marshland Adventure: J. Wentworth
Day (Harrap). Shooting, fishing, nature-
study, local history and local identities
around the Norfolk Broads. Mr, Day
always does this sort of book delight-
fully ; he has the easy approach of a
Robert Gibbings combined with the
observant naturalist’s eye of a Henry
Williamson.
* * * *
Volume HI of Noel Coward’s Play
Parade (Heinemann) includes “The
Queen Was in the Parlor,” “I’ll Leave It
to You,” “The Young Idea,” “Sirocco,”
“The Rat Trap,” “This Was a Man,”
“Home Chat” and “The Marquise,” with
a witty introduction by the author —who
has not only his wit to sustain him in the
English light-comedy tradition but, as
these three big volumes show, an indus-
triousness which would have astounded
Sheridan and Goldsmith.
* ,* * *
Hunter’s Horn ; Harriette Arnow (Col-
lins). This green and fertile novel of an
American hillbilly family—terbaccer-
chewing, illegal likker stills, prayer-meet-
ings, shotgun marriages and all—is likely
to be remembered as one of the finest
novels of the year. The hero, Nunnelly
Ballew, has sworn to hunt down a big red
fox, “ole King Devil”; it runs his
champion hound, Zing, to death, where-
upon he sells fine sheep and pigs and a
cow in calf, consigning his family to the
border of starvation, to buy two hound
puppies that will run the fox down. The
hunting is done on foot, the hunters talk-
ing over long distances with horns, and
following the faraway progress of their
dogs by their baying; there is a mag-
nificent corn-likker drunk party, where
Nunnelly, in grief over the loss of his
hound, buries a pick in a neighbor’s
shoulder —but everywhere, in school, at
home, in the village, at the sale-yards, the
scenes are fresh and new and so beauti-
fully woven into the main story as to
make it one of the best that has come
this way for a long time.
“THE BULLETIN”
CROSSWORD No. 82
Across.
I—Queensland town urges you to
clasp the poultry hideout to you
in bear-like manner. (9)
» cP k U( I in some uncertainty. (5)
° Fmttery six-footer or a ten
finishes of this lung-collapsing
inJPi? cess ; (12)
iV j ,°y there, marshal darling! (5)
It is asphyxiating to chant about
M P ro g en itor. (10)
*+ -Prank king puts coppers in a
is Tn. ir s P ec tacles. (3)
3 There are hundreds about con-
cerning he what minds the babies.
skier’s mouth. (6)
e re , e -ton son of Poseidon? (6)
bouth Carolina trump by which
a cat or pup may be lifted. (6)
Beverage. (3)
After 1000, a girl gets up and
~ entrances. (10)
Niothmg like small islands for
27-TrL- c de l ert “ is . ,and ” (5)
~ nsis shows the interceptor of a
square-cut moving around. (7, 5)
28— Beat parrot-food. (5)
29 — Mother’s warbler dramatist of
Shakespeare’s time. (9)
Down.
1 — Friendly association on the top
of, say, Mount Everest? (4, 7)
2 The family of a famous American
comedian puts piano among
cultivators. (5)
3 Cows 500 relations. (6)
4 An English saint and Ambler of
recent origin. (8)
5 A sheet of canvas had overturned
these flowers. (8)
6 Dismantle or ring you and me
without severity. (10)
7 Imposition by the State expresses
thanks with a kiss. (3)
9—New York speed-rate of a sprite.
(5)
12—Cheat to redden in a boundary
hit. (4, Tl-
lS—Very efficient (in jitterbug ter-
minology) with more docile Albert
having seven parts. (10)
17—Fell some timber in the mouth.
- (5, 3)
19 —Impart courage and enthusiasm
in the steeple. (7)
21—Alderman to age the king who
succeeded (Edipus. (5)
23 —3.14159 of- fe air-
men. (6) 75SSL ■
25—Cloth chair, if c 6tr> ■'
bound to be thus. (5)
27—A perquisite is upsetting iffine. (3)
rSm&'MMz-'- .ST ' :
Solution to Crossword No. 81.


mm
oap, water, brush or
des needed for the
Woee tot
LECTRIC
SHAVER
7/15/-
is a beautif
9 •
reasion razor
Viceroy” Electric Dry Shaver is
|y the makers oP the world’s most
fety Razor and is backed up by a
ed technical staff who have gained their experience over many years in the 'production
-it*
equipment. The “Viceroy” Electric Dry Shaver is fully guaranteed against defective
workmanship. It has no motor and requires no lubrication, and there is only one efficient
mg twin-cutting head to be cleaned after shaving.
have anywhere anytime
without electricity
/.(•e'foy.-
NON-ELECTRIC
DRY SHAVER
Without Electricity, Soap, Water, Brush or Blades. This fully
guaranteed non-electric precision instrument is a useful substitute
for yotir Viceroy Electric Shaver during Blackouts. The ideal
companion for a man when travelling and on holiday camping
trips. Keep one in the glove box of your car and shave where you
like, when ypu like. Remember you need no electricity, soap, water
or blades to operate the Viceroy Non-Electric Dry Shaver. Price £7.
If your local dealer cannot supply you write direct to us and we will arrange
to have your requirements forwarded to arty address within the Commonwealth.
I#!
W AND; Tb<
OLLS RAZOR
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PT Y. LTD.
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY • TELEPHONE BW 2038
Interstate Representatives: . _ M.nw*urn«‘
* Rl* Razor Co. of Aust. Pty. Ltd., 77 Queen Street, Brisbane. VICTORIA and TASMANIA: Godfrey Phillip (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Drury Lane, Lonsdale Street. Meioou
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris, Scarfe & Sandover Ltd., Hay Street, Perth. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell Ltd., Pirie Street, Adelaide. 7fl
